Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non- commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 



Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at http : / /books . qooqle . com/ 



The Bakers' Guide and Practical 
Assistant to the Art of Bread ... 

John Blandy 




...THE ORIGINAL... 



C ENTRAL B AKERS' ft GENCY , 

7 MARK LANE, LONDON. 

EVES and SO NS, mj> 



(H, O. EVES, OSWALD F- EVES) 



ACCOUNTANTS, 
AUCTIONEERS, and 
VALUERS, 



Irivite Instructions from 
BAKERS, COOKS, 

CONFECTIONERS, and 

CORN DEALERS, 

To Sell, or to Inspect and Value, Properties and Businesses ; 
To Audit Accounts; 

To prepare Compensation, Fire, and Removal Claims; 
To collect Rents and manage Estates. 

MESSRS. EVES Sl SONS have a large number of rood Bu<tlneit«e* 1nr 4*t« 
particulars of which Can be obtained - ■ ' ■ " uslnc « 5e * for 5<l, «» 

No Commission is charged to Venty 



FREEHOLD 100 LEASER 



Digitized by] 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



JOSEPH BAKER & SONS,™!*' 



General Offices and Works— 

"WTLLESDE1T JTOOTION, N.W 



Show Rooms and City Offices— 

38 OZTT BOAS, S.O. 



HIGHEST AWARDS 
awer given for Bread Machinery, Biscuit Machinery, 
Confectionery Machinery, and Ovens* 

33 GOLD MEDALS. 




Highest Award, London, 1834. 
Highest Award, Amsterdam, 1886. 
Highest Award, Edinburgh, 1885. 
Highest Award, Adelaide, 1837. 
Highest Award, Barcelona, 1888. 
Highest Award, Melbourne, 1888-9. 
Highest Award, Paris, 1889. 
Highest Award, New Zealand, 1890. 
Highest Award, Chili, 1891. 
Highest Award, Tasmania, 1892. 
Highest Award, Kimberley, 1893. 
Highest Award, Chicago, 1893. 
Highest Award , 

California, 1894. 




Whisking Machines. 



Patent Table 
Dough Divider. 





Bakers' Patent Flour Sifting and 
Mixing Machine. 




Bakers' Patent Dough Mixing and Kneading 
Machine. The Best on the Market 



THE NEW PATENT CONTINUOUS OVEN. 
A Perfect Oven. 



Plans and Estimates for Complete Installations. - 
— OATALOQTJES FESS. — 

-Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



2 



ADVERTISEMENTS . 



Werner, Pfleiderer i Perkins' 

PATENT 

TEUESCOCAR' 
DRAWPLATE 





THE "UNIVERSAL" 

KNEADING 4 MIXING MACHINE 

The Simplest and Best Dough Maker 
in the World. 



Sifters, Water Measuring; and 
Tempering Tanks, "Lewis and 
Pointon" Loaf Dough Dividers, 
Hot Water Supply Apparatus, and 
all Accessories for the modern 
up-to-date Bakery. 




WERNER, PFLEIDERER & PERKINS, Ltd., 

117 Queen Victoria St., bjndjn^. 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE 

AND 

^vacixcaC Jlsstef ant 

TO 

THE ART of BREAD-MAKING 

IN ALL ITS BRANCHES. 



BY 

JOHN BLANDY. 



FOURTH EDITION. 



LONDON : 

NEWTON & ESKELL, 59 & 60, Chancery Lane, W.C. 

1899. 

(All Rights Reserved.) 



Digitized by Google 



PEEFACE. 



IT is with more than ordinary pleasure that I write the few 
words asked from me by Mr. Blandy as a preface to the 
Fourth Edition of the " Bakers' and Confectioners' Guide." 
The circumstances under which this edition is called for 
and published are unique, and reflect the greatest credit on Mr. 
Blandy. That a trade in which reading and study is so little 
respected should have already bought up three editions is a 
circumstance in itself remarkable enough, but it is more than 
remarkable when the text is studied. Mr. Blandy does not 
spare his trade, but talks out straight, and points out without 
flinching the sins and shortcomings to which it is addicted. I 
cannot agree with all the strictures set forth in the "Bakers' 
Guide," or subscrible to all the modes of reform the author 
suggests, but I can bear witness to the integrity and honesty of 
his opinions, and to the unselfish enthusiasm with which he has 
pursued the good and great work of reforming and educating the 
baking trade. He knows, as all reformers know, what it is to 
have his work disparaged and his motives misconstrued, but he 
troubles not, keeping his face well set to the work before him, 
and going heroically forward. He acts up to his ideal : "It is 
of no consequence whether the outside world says ' successful ' to 
you or not ; your concern is to get the c well done ' at the finish 
of the journey from the man inside your own breast." It is not 
a worldly-wise ideal this, it is rather heroic ; but it is men with 
such ideals who do the pioneer work of the world, although the 
credit does not always turn their way. 

The original edition of the "Bakers' Guide," published in 
1882, was not the first book published for bakers, but there had 
been nothing of the kind issued for about thirty years before the 
" Guide " appeared, and the older works were either forgotten or 

■ . . Digitized by Google 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



5 



obsolete, and were only interesting as ancient literature. In 
each subsequent edition — and I have read them carefully — some 
new matter and new feature has been added ; but the present 
edition — of which I have had the privilege of reading the proof 
sheets — is quite a vade mecum for the baker and confectioner, 
whether he is old or young, master or man. .If I have a 
preference for the " literary " part of the work — those little para- 
graph sermons which Mr. Blandy can write so ingeniously and so 
forcibly — it may be because of a personal predilection of mine, 
but it is also because there is wisdom and wit in them, and 
because where they are not directly instructive, they are always 
stimulating and provocative of thought. Mr. Blandy is original 
in the sense that his individuality predominates in all he does 
and all he writes ; he cannot, even if he tries, think of, write, or 
speak as the ordinary man, so that his literary work, however 
one may disagree with its purport, is always refreshing and 
always instructive. Since the last edition of this book was 
published the author has had the important experience of 
successfully teaching for several sessions a large class of 
bakers — workers, managers, and masters — at the Borough Poly- 
technic, London, and the result of his experience, or part of it, 
is now incorporated in the new edition of " The Guide." He 
has learned that bakers don't care about long arrays of figures and 
compound technical terms, and he has tried, and tried success- 
fully, to teach technics in language as plain as possible. But 
as knowledge of technical terms is absolutely necessary to the 
student, all that are essential and Some more have been incor- 
porated in " The Guide," in dictionary form, for ready reference. 
The multitude of recipes given are useful to those in search of 
variety, or to those so situated that they must be their own 
instructors ; to such this book will be a real guide. I could 
wish for nothing better for the baking and confectionery trades 
than that every young man would carefully peruse this new 
edition of the "Bakers' Guide,'' in itself it is a liberal education. 



John Kirkland. 




6 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



- - THE - - 

Netherlands Yeast & Spirit Manufactory, 

, f Y. C. VAN Marken, 

fstcton : { F G WALLER 
DELFT, ZEIOLL^TSTX). 

For first-class work, you need a first-class 
Yeast; therefore you require N. G. & S. F. 

Yeast. 




FOR LISTS OF THE NUMEROUS AWARDS FOR THIS AND 
MANY YEARS PREVIOUS. WRITE UNDERMENTIONED AGENTS 



ABSOLUTELY PURE YEAST. 



Recommended by all the leading men in tbe trade. 



APPLY FOR SAMPLES TO— 

WALTER HEPWORTH, Harwich, Essex. 
SRAKRANEN BROTHERS. Brooks's Bar, Manchester. 
WILFRED HAUGHTON, 28 City Quay, Dublin. 
WILLIAM LYNN & Go-, 56 York Street Glasgow. 
JAMES FLEMING & Co., 19 Albert Street, Edinburgh. 
J. G. FALCONER, 53 Marischal Street, Aberdeen. 
MAWSON, SWAN & Co., 21 Groat Market, Newcastle- 
on-Tyne- 

, Digitized by Google 



INTEODUCTION. 



Read This Page First. 



ris merely a synopsis of the matter in this book, but the reading of 
it will direct you where to look for anything special you may wish 
to see, and thus save you the trouble of turning over the pages to 
see if it is here. Though, of course, and it should not be necessary to 
say it — I think you will profit by it if you will read the whole book 
from cover to cover.— f.B. 



Section I. 

Pages 9 to 22. 

Section II. 

Pages 23 to 64. 



Section III 

Pages 65 to 105. 

Section IV. 

Pages 106 to 134. 



Section V. 

Pages 135 to 147. 

Section VI. 

Pages 148 to 172. 

Section VII. 

Pages 173 to 190. 

Section VIII. 

Pages 191 to 197. 

Section IX. 

Pages 198 to 207. 

Section X. 

Pages 208 to 213. 

Section XI. 



Introductory hints and notes. System of business. 
Price of bread. A standard retail sale price. 

Volumetric estimation of albuminoids in flour and 
bread. Thermometric estimation of starch, glucose, 
maltose, etc. A dictionary of chemical terms and 
meanings. The thermometer, the metric system 
of Weights and measures. Heat and water. 

Flour, yeast, butter, margarine, carbonates, acids, 
sugar, essential oils, gas engines, fermentation, 
etc., etc. 

Bakers' stock booking. Forms. Temperature of 
the degrees of the bread-making processes. Heat 
of oven. Straight dough bread-making. Theory 
of quick fermentation. The seven stages in the 
life of a loaf. Use of salt in bread-making. 
Flavour. Crumbliness. Sour bread. Ropiness. 



Several types of bread and recipes- 
them. 



-how to make 



Recipes for cakes and flour confectionery, 
mentation. Icing and pipes. 

Puff paste and pastries. 



Orna- 



Fancy goods— Recipes and directions how to make. 
Biscuits — hard and soft. 



Creams, ices, etc. 



Sugar boiling — Degrees, 
fast menus, etc., etc. 



Recipes. Wedding break 



Digitized by 



8 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



The Patent Heat Trap Ovens are Superseding Steam Ovens. 




Apply to — 



Because they are 
built on more 
scientific prin- 
ciples, are free 
from danger, re- 
quire much less 
fuel and atten- 
tion, and are 
absolutely regu- 
1 ar in their 
baking through* 
out, no matter 
how careless the 
stoking. 

Heat Trap 
Ovens (Portable 
and Permanent, 
Drawplate and 
Peel) may be 
seen at work in 
most parts of 
England, Scot« 
land, Ireland, 
and Wales. 



COX! &0 SOU, TORQUAY 



T. C. CRUMP & CO., 

Office: 68 Bartholomew Close, Smithfield, LONDON, E.G., 
BUTTER AND LARD IMPORTERS, 

Experts in Butter Blending for Cake and Pastry Mixtures. 



MOTOYIE, 

(Registered Trade Mark) 

SILVER MEDAL AND DIPLOMA— (HIGHEST AWARD), 

THE ONLY SUBSTITUTE FOR BUTTER 

Ever put before the Trade for producing any kind of delicate Cake 
of high-class quality. 



Price Lists and Samples Free on Application. 

Digitized by Google 



- - THE - - 

BAKERS' & CONFECTIONERS' GUIDE. 



CHAPTER I. 

THE saying that nothing succeeds like success, to make 
• it intelligible, should have the addendum— when it 
(success) means honour or money-getting, for where is 
the reward as an outward and visible sign attending the 
successful straightening d! the hereditary twist in the moral 
character — the poverty bequeathed by ignorance turned into intelli- 
gent knowledge — the entering into combat with the selfish and 
brutal in our nature, conquering it and putting in its place the 
grandly beautiful character portrayed by Professor Huxley : "The 
man who has been so trained that his body is the ready servant 
oi his will, and does with ease and pleasure all the work that, as 
£ mechanism, it is capable of ; whose intellect is a clear, cold, 
Jogic engine, with all its parts of equal strength, and in smooth 
working order, ready like a steam engine to be turned to any kind 
of work, and spin the gossamers as well as forge the anchors of 
the mind ; whose mind is stored with a knowledge of the great 
#nd fundamental truths of nature and of the laws of her opera- 
tions ; one who — no stunted ascetic — is full of life and fire, but 
whose passions are trained to come to heel by a vigorous will, the 
servant of a tender conscience; who has learned to love all beauty, 
whether of nature or of art, to hate all vileness, and to respect 
.others as himself ?" Is not this a stupendous success ! — Brother 
baker, confectioner, miller — hampered with a consciousness of 
the lack of education and, worse, the possession of a nature 
mentally indolent, selfish, and perhaps brutally coarse— herein 
and elsewhere seek for stimulus and help to circumvent and 
overcome these defects. It is of no consequence whether the 
putside world says " successful*' to you or not, your concern is to get 
the " well done " at the finish of the journey from the man inside 
your own breast. 

In arranging the order in which the various subjects are treated 
|n this fourth edition, my efforts have been more particularly 

B 



Digitized by 



10 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



directed towards the setting at liberty the will, the stimulation of 
the desire, and therefore the promotion of a real and permanent 
appetite in the reader for a broader and more thorough knowledge 
of the technics, practice and commerce of his calling. 

After more than a quarter of a century of learning and teaching 
{qua doctf dicet) I have found that the iron rule of forcing the 
student to automatically acquire the precise lesson has had the 
effect of numbing and, partly at least, stultifying individual 
enquiry. 

I have therefore placed in the earlier pages the general reading r 
matter, which is made up of articles and notes, with the hope that 
the ordinary reader will find them of sufficient interest to repa/ 
the trouble of reading, and be encouraged to read into the 
technical matter. 

The second section is devoted to Technical Education : What 
it is and how to obtain it ? Technical students, to be worthy of 
the name, must be students in reality, not in fancy. They must 
acquire a theoretical and practical Knowledge of that part of 
chemistry which applies to their craft. To achieve this, it will be 
necessary to learn at least the rudiments of general chemistry, 
nor should this fact hinder the most timid from undertaking such 
study, for what is chemistry but the means by which we get to 
know, to examine, all bodies which act upon the senses. It helps 
us to determine the properties of all animal, vegetable, and 
mineral substances ; to determine the constitution of the 
atmosphere, of the water, and of our raw materials. The laws of 
hail, snow, ice, dew and rain, chemistry explains to us. Most of 
the processes in bread and confectionery making and the cook- 
ing of food are chemical operations, and knowing the chemistry 
of the process is to know the why and wherefore of it. Chemistry 
explains to us the reasons of the changes effected by heat, how 
substances in combination are to be separated, and how the union 
of substances and the formation of new compounds are effected ; 
nor is chemistry dry and altogether serious in its study' — if you buy 
one of the books on chemical recreations you will get many hours 
of real amusement out of it. The recreative interest in experi- 
mental research, production, and demonstration, has only to be 
pursued to be enjoyed. The occasional and unexpected explosion 
or flame, with the resulting singed hair and scorched flesh, 
will give you something to think and talk about for many days. 

Chemical science has no politics and knows no side. It is a 
science of fact, and a study of it will teach us to be exact and 
accurate in our sayings and doings, and is just the sort of educa- 
tion needed at the present time. 

The bread-making technical student must also dive a little into' 
botany and biology, for how can he know what yeast and its- 




TBE BAKERS GUIDE. 



ii 



functions are without knowing something of the fungi family, their 
nature, uses, influences, and structure ? Bacilli and bacteria are 
the baker's constant companions ; he must become acquainted 
with them very intimately, so as to entertain them properly (for 
they are useful guests sometimes) and to teach them not to out- 
stay or take liberties with their welcome. 

The baker and confectioner to be quite sure of the degree of the 
boiling sugar, the heat of the baking chamber and liquids, must 
let go the cumbrous and uncertain testings of rule of thumb, and 
take to the thermometer, and therefore must read books which 
treat of heat and temperature. 

I have dealt freely enough upon all these matters in the tech- 
nical section of this book to encourage, I hope, a taste for more, 
but at the best the scope of the book will only allow of a taste, 
and not enough for a meal. Study the subject, buy the books 
here mentioned, and become a real student of the technics of 
your trade :— Church's " Food," Voller's " Flour Milling," 
Tyndall's " Heat as a Mode of Motion," Maxwell's " Theory of 
Heat," Sims Woodhead's "Bacteria and their Products," 
" Chemical Recreations/' with the latest " Elementary Inorganic 
Chemistry/' and the latest books on machine construction and 
the "Chemistry of Sugar." There is also in the dictionary, and 
technical matter in this Bakers' Guide much that you should read 
at once, for the many explanations will be very useful to you in 
your search for knowledge. 

In the third section will be found all about yeast, all about 
flour, fermentation, and about our raw materials. 

In the fourth and last section I have grouped a large number 
of processes and recipes for making up many different varieties 
of bread, cake, pastry, confectionery, and biscuits. 

Nothing is too small to teach or to learn ; it is only relatively 
that any man is wise or foolish. There may be those who do not 
know quite so much, but there are also those who know much 
more than we do. It is no disgrace for the oldest workman to 
be willing to be taught that which he does not know, or that may 
not have come within the scope of his experience. It must be 
remembered that a complete knowledge of the baking and allied 
trades of cooking, confectionery, and cake-making cannot be 
acquired fully in a lifetime ; there are fresh creations every day, 
and the young man who is widest awake usually finds out or 
acquires the most extensive and varied information. Therefore, 
keep your eyes open, and cultivate quickness of perception and 
smartness of action ; and if you do work out something new, 
don't let it die with you, give it to the trade — many a useful 
improvement dies with its possessor, because he is jealous of 




12 



THE BAKERS GUIDE, 



another knowing as much as himself; when you teach ybu make 
a path for others to walk upon. 

In the workshop, as elsewhere, "knowledge is power." The 
more extended and varied the better. The workman should 
have his head full of information about his work, so that in the 
moment of need memory or reflection can bring out just the 
knowledge required to perfect the work in hand. But knowledge 
or natural gift, be it ever so great, will not suffice. If a workman 
wants to take the front rank in the trade he must have more than 
these — he must have right principles to go on ; principles are to 
character what concrete bottoms are to buildings. To have a 
solid character there must be a solid foundation ; therefore have 
a good governing principle, a rule that shall be the plumb-line , 
by which you will be able to see if any act is out of the square, or 
such as would interfere with your determination to walk uprightly. 
Make up your mind at the start what is to be the object of your 
life ; don't be like a cork on the water, blown hither and thither 
by every wind, and at last safely landed in the corner of some 
muddy creek. Don't leave chance to make your future — that 
trust is vain. If you expect to attain honours you must first work 
to win them. Don't be heavy hearted and doubtful of success, 
persevere. Inexperience and youth are followed by ripeness and 
wisdom ; the scholar of to-day is the teacher for to-morrow. Don't 
fail, when you have obtained useful knowledge, to impart it to 
those around ; 4< imparted knowledge does not diminish learning's 
store." Cultivate self government, let tl patience have her perfect 
work, be not hasty in spirit to be angry." Don't browbeat your 
brother workman if you have occasion for the expression of a 
different opinion or to administer rebuke, do it with firmness and 
moderation. Employers, do not browbeat and bully your work- 
people; a tyrant who drives and curses seldom has faithful ser- 
vants. The obstacle in the way of strikes is a kind employer, but 
if he ignore the remembrance that the operative is also a man 
like himself, with the same needs of flesh and spirit, the same duties 
of husband and father, in providing food, clothes, education, and 
habitation ; if employers neglect the display of humanitarian 
principles, then though they be wise business men, though they be 
progressively successful business men, they are also progressively 
successful brutes, promoters of strikes, and aiders and abettors of 
drunkenness, profanity and crime, for men treated as beasts become 
beasts, kindness is a strike antiseptic — Be Gentlemen AIL 

Be clean. Every workman who has any proper pride in his 
work, or who would be counted a true workman, will be clean 
in more senses than one — clean tongue, clean flesh, clear* 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



utensils, dean work— for if a little loose flour or M cones 99 were 
allowed to adhere to the loaf his work would be badly finished, 
and he would be deemed untidy; but how much more would 
this be the case if he were dirty in his person, and touched the 
dough or batter with unwashed hands ! Every time he did so touch 
it, it would not only be abominably dirty, but he would also spoil 
his work, and of course frustrate his future preferment. A man who 
would come from handling the tins, the peel, or the scuffle, etc., 
to mould any of the fine fancy breads — such as crescents, twists, 
vienna rolls, or any clear. " green " dough — would spoil them for 
appearance and for eating. Watch him closely, or keep him to 
wait upon the others and do the drudgery. Dough will clean 
out the interstices in the hands in such a way that any decent 
workman will use plenty of soap and water if he can get at it. 
Cleanliness is not next to godliness in any other sense than being 
a good habit ; or any nearer than honesty, charity, etc. Clean- 
liness is, however, one of the good habits that are essential in 
connection with food ; therefore clean habits always form one of 
the planks of a good character, which, when engaging a man, 
should be as much sought for as honesty itself. 

Bakers and Confectioners should have good " understandings," 
old boots "try" the feet very much; don't wear them in the 
workshop. IF a workman is bad on the feet it will impair his 
usefulness. In the fabrication of bread he has no idle members 
— head, hand, heart, and foot, are all under contribution at one 
and the same time. Old shoes and clothes are not only uncom- 
fortable, but they are untidy, and do not enhance the value of 
the workman. It will not cost much to have a light material 
neatly made up for bakehouse wear. Consider, too, that a baker 
spends two-thirds of his waking time at work, under very heavy 
pressure ; surely, then, some special provision should be made 
for good and suitable clothing for that " two-thirds of his waking 
life." Baker and confectioner, wear the working dress that will 
dignify your calling, not degrade it. 

" Keep time." Few things tend so much to create contention 
as irregularity in the order of work. Backward work has to 
answer for much unparliamentary language in the bake-office and 
shop. The clock should be large faced, and hang in a prominent 
place. A workman, who " takes pride in the work " and desires 
the goods to be up in time, will instinctively watch the clock. 
Gossip, joking, retailing the news, and argumentative discussions 
are alike out of place when there is a lot of work about ; when 
this is indulged in, and becomes general, it is a dead certainty, 
whether " the favourite wins " or not, that the goods will be half an 
fy>ur late at the finish. Always be " on time." 




14 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



Pins and nails, pieces of wood and stone, are very bad things 
to digest, and, moreover, are not at all conducive to longevity ; 
therefore, pins should be strictly forbidden within the precincts of 
the bakehouse. Should u rents " occur and buttons come off, 
seek the assistance of some kind mother, or use string or sack 
tiers, but, if you please, no pins ; neither should boxes of peel, 
currants, or sultanas be opened nor sifted and picked, upon the 
dough-tables or trough-lids, or it will be nearly impossible to 
prevent some of the debris, nails, etc., getting into the cracks and 
falling through on the flour or other raw materials that are about. 

The System of Business for Progressive Men.— 

Price, Credit, Canvassing, are questions the understand- 
ing of which need give you no anxiety, as they will 
have no place in your business. You are proposing to 
open a bakery and run it upon progressive lines, upon 
the assumption that there is room for it in that particular 
town or district ; and regarding the price at which to sell, 
your wisdom will be to adjust the mode of trade and sale, so that 
the turnover at the end of the quarter or half-year will show a 
fair profit on expended capital and brains, and the price must be 
adjusted to give that fair profit ; you have no right to more, and 
should not be satisfied with less. " Money " should not expect 
more than four or five per cent., and labour as working master 
should be charged for at the amount it would be worth in the 
labour market as a manager. 

It is preposterous to expect, as many do, a fortune from the 
investment of a few hundred pounds. If you invest ^5,000 and 
also work personally in the business, you should expect and have 
^200 per annum as interest at four per cent. — being a safe 
investment — and ^250 as salary, which will be as much as the 
manipulation of ^5,000 is worth. This will give ^450 for 
capital and management. I would not send out canvassers 
or buy customers by " tipping," simply because it is wasteful, not 
because there is any impropriety or sharp practice attached to 
these trade customs. If your bakery succeeds in the purpose 
for which it is opened — that of attracting trade — it will be by 
displacing some of the existing baker's trade. Every gain of a 
customer means the loss of a customer. There is quite a lot of 
nonsense talked about canvassing, objectors forgetting that the 
increase of business in their own case could only have been 
obtained by taking it from other bakers. If they have not can- 
yassed for it they have had no need to do so. The favoured 
position of their shop, the natural grace of their person 
or the superior quality of their goods — underselling in 
quality, as it is termed — have, in their case, rendered canvass- 
ing unnecessary. To send a card into a lady and to solicit 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



an order to supply her with bread, is in no degree less 
respectable or praiseworthy, than the calling of the flour 
seller upon you at your shop to solicit an order for flour. 
Many traders who sneer at the practice of canvassing for 
customers in their houses, have no objection to canvass them as 
they pass along the street by an enormous show of goods and 
well-dressed windows, which will result in waste and stale goods, 
to be sold next day at less than cost price. 

The only forcible and sound objection to canvass for business 
by miller or baker, or to the sale of waste and stale goods, is that 
it must add to the sale price of the article. It is therefore 
unsound and should not be practised. For the same reason I 
consider the Credit System is also unsound, and must not be 
A plank in a progressive baker's platform. It handicaps pro- 
gress very severely. In the ordinary family baker's trade the 
amount of locked-up capital is from 8 to 10 per cent of the 
entire turnover. If the annual turnover is ^5,000, taken at an 
estimate of 7i per cent., ^375 will be wholly unproductive by 
being always upon the books as current credit accounts. It does 
not affect the calculation whether the credit given is one week or 
more. If paid every week^ the current week is being put on the 
books at the same time the past week is being taken off. To put 
it roughly and in round figures, if you total up the amount unpaid 
on an ordinary " family baker's w ledger, the turnover being 
^S,ooo a year, on any and every day of the year you will find 
not less than ^"400 ; in many cases it will be over ^500. To 
put the case yet more strongly, for every ;£ioo worth of trade 
done, you are only able to handle and use ^90 of it, considering 
the power of cash to buy is z\ per cent, off in most cases, and 
that in the baking trade, where stocks are turned over at least 
every three months, which will make this 2 \ into 10 per cent for 
the year ; 10 per cent, on ^500, the sunk or locked up portion 
of the turnover will be equal to 1 per cent, on the total turnover 
of ^5,000 ; now add 2 per cent, for the cost of clerical work of 
this credit trade — it cannot be well done cheaper — and 2 per cent, 
for bad debts and actual money outlay for stationery, and you 
fiave as absolutely the minimum cost of a credit trade, a clear 
ioss of 5 per cent, which is tantamount to the loss of every 
cent to which the invested capital is entitled, and every pound 
paid out of the business to invested capital has been a pound un- 
necessarily put upon the retail sale price, the retail cash buyer 
having had to pay in excess of the fair value of the loaf In 
the majority of credit shops the person who buys direct from the 
counter puts the cash down, and — without the sometimes grudged 
piece of paper for wrapping — takes away the loaf, pays exactly 
the same price as that charged when it is sent a mile, and the 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



account for it is sent in and brought forward on the ledger several 
times before it is paid for. 

C. O. D. is the only form of payment allowable in a modern 
system of business, especially a baker's business. A loaf of bread 
or a cake is not like a shovel or hammer, or even like boots and 
coats ; all these things take some time to wear out, but a loaf is- 
consumed at once, and like a ride in train or 'bus, cannot be 
recovered, and therefore should be paid for on the spot. Ready 
money buying, if used with care, will always obtain the best value, 
wholesale or retail. It is because bakers think they can hold their* 
customers surer that they like the credit family trade, and being sure 
of them are tempted to make them pay. But the days of harvest 
in this respect are rapidly passing away, for ordinary buyers are 
beginning to understand the value of ready money and the power of* 
choice cash buying gives them, and the credit baker is becoming 
what the credit grocer has already become, merely a convenience 
for the needy and a mark for the swindler. It does not involve 
the possession of a knowledge of mathematics to know that if a 
baker can afford to send a 3d. loaf a mile, enter the transaction 
in at least two books, send in an account and wait a 
month for the money, he ought to be able to supply it for less to 
the person fetching and paying cash for the bread; thus saving 
cost of books, bills, wear and tear of baskets, barrows, carts, loss 
on the amount of locked-up capital, and worse — the actual loss of 
money through bad debts. 

The Glamour which Credit Trading seems to throw over well- 
informed business men is not understandable by ordinary 
reasoning ; though they have a forcible object lesson confronting 
them in the firms analogous to their own in product, who are 
obviously going straight and quick towards the prize of a big 
business and a big annual income upon a cash system, yet these 
smart business men allow themselves to slowly drag behind in the 
old-fashioned credit coach. Credit is a most hideous monster, 
conceived, brought forth, and kept alive by ignorance. It is more 
destructive of nett profits than the greediest of lessors and ground 
landlords, the shortest and worst of repairing leases, and the most 
exacting of strikes. This is the " bloated aristocrat " who, 
gorged upon bad debts and the work of clerical departments, sits 
upon the chest of interest and principal, absorbs the reserve 
fund, and causes perpetual nightmare to traders ; that preys upon 
the vital energy of commerce, and wastes it ; that keeps large 
numbers of capable people employed with the sole duty of feed- 
ing its hungry maw with bills, invoices, statements, postings, and 
writs. But notwithstanding all this, notwithstanding that those 
who have driven this credit fiend away have "mounted up with 
wings of eagles," have reached the prize quickly, notwithstanding 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



i7 



that the dead and the dying victims of credit lie thickly every- 
where, that such numbers of the clever and beautiful of our 
youth are kept in bondage to his service, that he is the cause of 
suicides and lunacy, that bankruptcies are his doings, and that the 
underpaid workpeople are frequently the outcome of his greedy 
assimilation of profits, notwithstanding that he causes madness, 
severs friends, peoples the workhouse, the suicide's grave, and 
the madhouse, credit is still courted and welcomed by the 
majority of traders, is sought after, aye, and purchased. Woe is 
me, for I am undone, for I live in the days of the reign of King 
Credit, and mine eyes have beheld and wept over his victims > 
one would wish with Jeremiah to have fountains for eyes, that 
the continually flowing stream might attest the sincerity of 
my sorrow. 

The Price of Bread. The Press of England reflects no 
only the real grievances, but the fleeting thoughts and fancies, of 
the public mind. It is, therefore, quite natural to expect that the 
leisure hours of letter-writers should find expression in the 
columns of the daily papers on the price of bread. We do not 
think, however, that many of those who complain in print are 
genuine representatives of the working-classes, though this cir- 
cumstance does not deny them the right of discussing this or any 
other question affecting the interests of the poor; provided 
always that such amateur champions take the needful pains to 
acquaint themselves with the facts at issue, and that they truly 
represent a real grievance. Many of the daily and weekly papers, in 
their editorials, are but very little above these fugitive letters in 
the justness and accuracy of their remarks when attempting to fix 
the guilt of unjust prices upon the bakers — a body of men who, 
after all, occupy but the last, the most laborious, and conse- 
quently the least remunerative, place among the classes who deal 
in corn and flour. 

Outside the trade there is a dangerous penchant among literary 
men for settling questions of public interest by arithmetic ; but it 
is just one of those ways of stating a case in which general 
readers should place but little confidence. We see a result, but 
do not see how it was arrived at, or whether the whole of the 
figures germane to the matter have been taken into account. For 
instance, it is a fair-looking statement to say " a sack of flour 
costs 25s., and produces ninety quarterns of bread, for which the 
baker charges 5d. per quartern, at which price it returns 37s. 6d., 
and allowing 6s. for cost of production and distribution, it gives 
6s. 6d. profit." Yet this, notwithstanding the use of figures, is a 
very imperfect statement ; but it is the usual way of putting the 
case, and would be conclusive were it not a fact that some of the 
most important figures are left out of the calculation. The truth 




18 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



is, there are factors in the case that will not dress up into a sum 
<of this kind. We will name a few of them. 

Notwithstanding the most anxious thought and endeavours to 
anticipate the probable orders of his customers the baker will 
occasionally make too much. Changes in the weather will affect 
the demand ; a sudden Hush of cheap fruit or vegetables in his 
neighbourhood which he could not have foreseen, also reduces 
custom ; and, though he may clear out to-day, to-morrow he may 
find himself overstocked. Temperature must also be taken into 
account in the manufacture, as it affects the fermentation and 
sometimes spoils the entire batch. This excess and waste bread must 
be taken into the calculation ; all the ninety quarterns must be sold 
and the money obtained for it, before the profits can be estimated. 

Flours are not all of one quality, and consequently there can 
be no uniform yield of bread ; nor are they of one price, so there 
can be no uniform profit. 

There are bad debts, wear and tear of plant, that must be 
tacked on to the cost of production ; to say nothing of rent, rates, 
taxes, all of which must come out of this 6s. 6d. 

Education, science, art, sanitation, and even philanthropy 
itself cost money, as ratepayers everywhere know too well; 
and bakers, among others, have to bear their share of the 
burden. 

The price of bread is affected, as well as that of other com- 
modities, by the vast number of persons in the world who " toil 
not, neither do they spin," though some of them pose as the 
advocates of a cheap loaf to wile away the time. 

There is a law of compensation in trade as in nature by which 
prosperous years bear the burden of unprosperous. The farmer 
looks to a good harvest to recoup him for the failures of the past ; 
but if the public are to step in and reap immediately the whole 
benefit of his good harvest, his former hopes would be nullified. 
The public should be regarded as partners in the profits and 
losses of their tradesmen, but not in the profits until the losses 
are adjusted or compensated for. 

The present low price of bread has been reached before during 
the last twenty years, although the price of flour has never been 
so low ; this simply means that an article may be sold at one 
time below its value owing to an excess of capital, production, or 
competition ; but the public are doomed to defray that loss sooner 
or later. In the production of bread there are all these elements 
of excess : Among the financiers at the head, too much capital 
(or credit), limited only by the ability of the public to buy; 
among the millers too great a production — Rollers once started 
must grind on, even at a present loss, for which, however, the 
people will have to pay by-and-bye; too many producers; an 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



19 



army of small bakers, the excess of whom the public must un- 
doubtedly support. 

This subject, for many years, has had expended upon it the 
anxious thought and tireless energy of a number of earnest, 
intelligent men, belonging to both the milling and the baking 
trades. Men who have taken an unselfish interest in the moral 
as well as financial improvement of the trade ; who have tried 
14 moral suasion," 'coercion," " purchase," deputations to millers 
and bakers ad lib, ; and who have spent many weary hours in con- 
ference and council, advancing and refuting, pulverizing and stick- 
ing together again, every argument that could be thought of, read, 
or written upon this question of getting a uniform price for bread. 

With the memory of these efforts full upon me, I would not 
thoughtlessly intrude, nor must it for a moment be thought that 
I enter the arena to thrown down the gauntlet and to join the 
•combatants. I come with the basis of an armistice, with a flag 
■of truce, and to persuade bakers to cease this barren fight — you 
do but " kick against the pricks this is but a question of cause 
and effect, which is paralelled in the " 'bus," boot and clothing 
trades, in matches, in sugar, and in many other things, not over- 
looking labour and capital — the chief of all. 

It may seem a little cold-blooded to talk of patience to drown- 
ing men, but nevertheless, as matters stand, patience is absolutely 
necessary ; the trade has come into a rich inheritance, and every- 
thing connected with the milling and baking trades is in a state of 
transition. It is impossible to work upon the old lines : 
uniformity of price can only be thought of now upon a much 
wider basis ; there must be at least Jour standards of prices to meet 
the values of the different varieties of flours — this is becoming 
■quite plain to anyone who takes in the abnormal growth of the 
varieties or classes of flour. During the last fifteen years the 
difference of value is most marked — ranging from fourth grade or 
seconds at 19s. up to supers and patent purified middlings at 30s., 
and Hungarian at 37s. — and this difference is being increased 
•every year. Before, therefore, we talk of a fixed price, these 
■qualities of flour must be separated into four classes, to meet the 
■demand that exists : (a) among the very poor labouring classes ; 
(b) the superior mechanic and tradesman ; (c) the middle and 
professional ; and (d) the upper aristocratic classes — each of these 
■classes is well defined in their style of living, and their bread-supply 
could be easily adjusted. 

Free-trade has undoubtedly brought too many competitors into 
the home flour-market, but it is one of those good principles that, 
though they disturb for a time the social earth they are in contact 
with, it is only the disturbance caused by the breaking up of bad 
<£oncrete customs, and all will right itself by-and-bye for the 




20 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



nation's good. Though free-trade has increased competitors it 
will end in squeezing many of them out altogether. 

In the case of ignorance of political economy it will be necessary 
only to educate — educate— educate. There must be drawn up 
and printed, for the use of juniors and ©thers taking shops, 
accurate tables, showing the true cost of production and distribu- 
tion, inclusive of wages, rent, rates, taxes, insurance (life and fire), 
with light, fuel, repairs, wear and tear of person and plant, etc. 
Then we must have instruction how to " keep books," how to- 
ascertain profits, how to find out the number of quarterns of 
bread to the sack of flour, and how many shillings a sack so much 
per quartern will return. There must be teaching of a higher kind 
as to the morals and duties of the trade, and young men should 
go to the Bakers' Institute to learn the technics as well as the^ 
practice of how to make and sell bread. 

In connection with this question of the price of bread, it is my 
duty to tell these fugitive letter-writers, consumers, and the public 
press, that they are themselves chargeable with the loss of a 
farthing a loaf by their culpably careless violation of the economic 
law governing supply and demand. 

I have said that one cause of loss to the baker which the public 
must pay for is that the baker has to make bread to meet probable 
orders. Mrs. Blank takes in three loaves from the man when he 
calls to-day, but to-morrow she does not require any ; now what 
difficulty would it be for Mrs. Blank to have said she would not 
require any bread on the morrow ? None whatever ; and this causes- 
needless waste of good bread, good bread which in large quantities 
all the year is sold for pigs' food, and won't even fetch that market 
sometimes, and has to be thrown away, and is therefore so much 
waste of profit. Again, have bread buyers any idea of the waste 
of profit there is in their habit of running up a bill ? A paltry 2 Jd. 
loaf involving the whole paraphernalia of office, clerks, books, and 
the loss of another farthing. It is in just those circles where there 
is money that it is most difficult to get this 2^d. in ready money 
and where the chief of the grumbling letters come from. 

The consumer is also solely responsible for another profit-wast- 
ing as well as unwholesome usage, namely that of changing stale 
bread for new— Mrs. Blank coolly says, " None to-day baker, but 
give me a new loaf for this stale one," and is highly incensed if he 
demurs, though most likely he has more than he wants already, and 
it will only go to the pigs. Apart, however, from this sin of waste, 
I demand in the interests of the public health, upon sanitary 
grounds, that this unwholesome custom shall be abolished. The 
bread may have been handled by hands befouled with unthink- 
able things, by persons suffering from acute phthisis, or taken* 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



21 



from a damp slimy pan or cupboard, positively reeking in 
jnucor mucedo, bacillus subtilis and bacterium termo, or from a 
room where the known or unknown presence of the bacilli of 
typhoid and scarlet fevers and small pox are lurking. Ugh ! 
the mere thought of it is enough to make one break through 
habits of abstinence and drink brandy. 

Immediate reform in these various matters can be easily effected 
by a mutual agreement between the baker and his customer, and 
.as the continuance of these abuses is inimical to the interests of 
both it should not be delayed. If the Associations will prepare 
a circular-letter, and ask the help of the daily and weekly press to 
make it known, there will be no difficulty with the public, for it 
will not only mean cheaper bread to them, but also the saving 
to the nation of much valuable food-stuff for its people that at 
present finds its way to the dust heap. 

Bakers have only themselves to blame for much of this un- 
reasonable press criticism, from the fact that they have no 
standard of gross and nett profit, and therefore for the lack of 
such a recognized standard, bread that is made from the same 
value and quality of flour is sold at different prices in different 
towns, and at different prices in the different streets and districts 
of the same town. It is urgently necessary that such a standard 
should be at once attempted, nor is there apparently any sound 
leason why it should not be. A conference of delegates from the 
bakers' societies from all parts of the country could be expected 
to agree upon a fair standard of gross profit, and that standard 
arranged, a note sent to the press associations as to a rise or fall 
in the price of the loaf, would by the London and provincial 
press convey the fact to both baker and public. The baker could 
be trusted to rise, and the public would look after the fall, and in 
a short time it would become as accurately automatic in its opera- 
tion as that of the press quotations of stocks and shares. The 
severe publicity of this would act also upon bakers who would 
take any unfair advantage. For public opinion when properly 
educated is very sound, and few bakers would find it pay to face 
an adverse public opinion. 

Something of this sort must soon be arranged by bakers, or 
the Government must do it for them, for it is obvious that their 
present mode of doing business cannot be tolerated in connection 
with an article of commerce of such importance to the nation as 
its daily bread. 

Such a standard would also simplify the adjustment of the 
differences between the employer and the employed. 

The following sketch of the outlines of a possible standard may 
perhaps suggest a way out of the maze : — 




22 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



Take as a base for a standard for household bread, either 
second patents or households, these at the time of writing are 
25s. the 280 lbs. We will put the — 

Price of flour, 28olbs. ... £1 5 o 
Cost of labour to make into bread 3 6 
„ „ sell and deliver 3 o 

Yeast, salt, and fuel ... 13 

Rent and taxes ... ... 1 



o 



Wear and tear, fire insurance... 9 

£1 14 6 

Yielding, after allowing for waste, 
90 4-lb. loaves at the present 
price of 5d. ... ... 1 17 6 



Nett profit £0 3 o 

Therefore the standard retail price for bread made with flour 
costing 25s,, is 5d. per 4-lb loaf. Whites and 1st patents being 
4s. more per 280 lbs., would therefore be 5$d. per 4-lb. loaf as a 
standard. 

It may be pointed out that 3s. per 280 lbs. as a nett profit i* 
very low and not enough. In answer to this objection, I reply, 
that a full allowance has been made on labour, which will leave the 
master very little to do, and if the output is only twenty sacks per 
week, that would bring in 60s., and that is ample payment for the 
very little mental and physical effort he has to put forth. If the 
master is energetic, and does manual labour, he will displace some 
of this, and of course take the extra profit, which is his rightful 
due. There may be extra work and worry entailed by the mak- 
ing and selling of flour confectionery, and other goods— quite so, 
but that has nothing to do with the loaf, they must bear their share 
of cost and yield their own profit. 

It may be objected further that there is no allowance for bad 
debts. Certainly not. Mrs. Blank, who pays cash, must not be asked 
to finance the loss through Mrs. Blink who does not. You risk 
upon Mrs. Blink, make her pay £d. more for the risk. 

Nor is the sum for rent too small. It is quite enough if a fair 
trade is done, and if the baker takes a highly-rented shop with 
but a small output, it is a bad bargain, and he must bear the loss 
of some of his 3s. ; he has no right to make the public pay for 
exorbitant and fancy expenses. 

The extra cost too (to make) of small and fancy bread, have 
nothing to do with a fair standard for the ordinary loaf ; they da 
(or should do) return an extra price 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



CHAPTER II. 

THE GERM OF CHEMISTRY AND THE BIRTH 
OF TECHNICS. 

VOLUMETRIC Estimation of Albuminoids in 
Flour and Bread. (Barker-Smith Method.) 
These methods I have found to be both practical and 
useful in my various classes, and, as I am desirous of 
increasing their sphere of usefulness, they are reprinted here from 
Dr. Barker Smith's work by his permission. (Sold by the 
RebmanCo., Ltd., 129 Shaftesbury Avenue). 

The student's set is all the apparatus required for the 
thermometric estimation of ammonia, proteids in flour and bread, 
alcohol, citrates, cream of tartar, syrups, glucose, solutions, etc. 
Abbreviation : " Centim " used for gram volume or c.c. 
Measure one centim of the official 1 per cent, solution of 
potassium permanganate into a hundred centim flask, add six 
centims of dilute sulphuric acid, dilute the mixture to a hundred 
centims with water. 

Norme. — Fifty centims of the above acid permanganate 
solution ; used invariably for recording. 

8ubnorme. — Ten centims of the above acid permanganate 
solution ; used almost invariably for all experiments. 

Method. — Pour a subnorme into a two-ounce flask. Fill a 
ten centim pipette with the albuminous solution. Take the two- 
ounce flask between the finger and thumb of the left hand and 
the pipette in the right hand. Shake the flask continuously, 
and deliver the albuminous fluid regularly in running drops 
until the last trace of pink shall have disappeared. Time should 
never exceed thirty seconds. Milk diluted with five or ten 
parts of water should be used for practice until regular results 
are obtained. 

Standard. — Four centims of a 1 per cent, solution of the 
water-free albuminoids decolourise the norme, or '8 centim the 
bubnorme. 

Rule. — The constant dividend is f*ur, the centims which 
decolourise the norme are the divisor, and the quotient is the 
percentage of albuminoids in solutions of albumens. 



Digitized by 



£4 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



The same method is applied to the estimation of ginger, 
finnamon, aromatic essences and waters t cochineal, carmine, etc., 
using suitable standards for each substance. 

Flour and Bread.— Weigh i gram of flour and place it in a 
small mortar, add a teaspoonful of water and triturate it 
diligently for one minute with the pestle, now add four ceniims of 
solution of potash (official liquor potassae), mix well for 20 
seconds, and add water gradually to a hundred centims, so as to 
make a 1 per cent, mixture of flour. 

The flour is then estimated as ah albuminous mixture or 
•solution. For such weak albuminous solutions the constant 
dividend is three and a half instead of four. The calculation, 
always simple, is further simplified by using a table referable to 
the results obtained by the subnorme. Suppose the routine 1 per 
cent, flour mixture is used, the constant dividend for subnorme 
is seventy (7 by 100), and the quotient is the percentage of total 
albuminoids in the flour. The four centims of liquor potassae 
would be sufficient for a food-stuff containing 50 per cent, 
of albuminoids. 

Table fori per cent. Flour Mixtures; Referable to 
the Subnorme. 

Centims Decolourising Subnorme. Percentage of Albuminoids. 



50 


140 


5*5 


127 


60 


n-6 


6'5 


10 7 


70 


100 


7 '5 


9*3 


80 


87 




8'2 


90 


7*7 


9*5 


73 


100 


70 



Ginger. — A gram of good ginger was made into a decimal 
tincture with rectified spirit, i.e., the ginger was extracted com- 
pletely. One centim of this decimal extract of ginger was 
diluted with water to 10 centims so as to represent a 1 per cent, 
solution of ginger. 

Of this centesimal solution 3*6 centims decolourised the sub- 
norme or eighteen centims the norme. Hence the constant 
dividend for ginger is eighteen, the divisor is the centims de- 
colourising the norme, and the quotient is the percentage of 
ginger. 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



25 



Thermometric Estimation of Albuminoids in Flour 
and Bread. (Barker-Smith Method.) 

Pour good official chlorinated soda solution to the 5 centim 
mark in a half ounce phial, ascertain the temperature by means 
jof a small thermometer, and mark the temperature down. Add 
fiaif-a-gram of flour, of the same temperature as the chlorinated 
soda, stopper the phial and take -. it by the rim and shake it 
briskly, about 10 seconds, without adding heat from the fingers ; 
remove the stopper and insert the thermometer, the temperature 
gradually increases in ratio to the percentage of albuminoid, and 
the final temperature or acme is obtained in about four minutes. 
The degrees of temperature Fahr. correspond almost exactly to 
the percentage of albuminoid in the flour. Bread must be 
.added in crumblets. In the case of milk or strong solutions of 
.albumen, 1 centim is measured into the phial, and the degrees 
Fahr. multiplied by the factor *6 afford the percentage of 
albuminoids. For example 1 centim of milk afforded 6 degrees 
of heat, i.e., 3*6 per cent, albuminoids in the milk (*6 x 6). 



Thermometric Estimation of Starch, Glucose, Mal- 
tose, Tartrates, and Citrates. (Barker-Smith Method). 

For these substances another oxidiser is used instead of the 
chlorinated soda. This oxidiser is 4 centims of 4 per cent, 
solution of potassium permanganate, and 1 centim of dilute 
sulphuric acid. Albuminoids also respond as in method B. 
One gram of finely ground wheat was mixed and made with 
water 20 centims by measure, the whole was kept stirred in 
£ small mortar and 1 centim of the mixture measured off by a 
1 centim pipette. The heat evolved slowly, and reached an 
.acme of 3 5 0 Fahr., or 70 0 for the gram of wheat-meal. The 
heat evolved by the albuminoid portion of the wheat meal ascer- 
tained by the other method was 21-5° Fahr. The first aspect 
pi the experiment gives the following results : — 

21-5 x •6=1 2*9 per cent, albuminoid. 
48-5 x 1*8=87-3 P er cent - starch. 
Now a gram of starch in a similar manner afforded 60 0 Fahr., 
dextrin 90 0 , albuminoid 182°* maltose 240 °. 

Hence the factors for these various substances are respec- 
tively 18, i'2, *6, and maltose '45. So we see both the 
Rationale of the method applied to cereals, and that the starch 
percentage is too high. Three simple experiments give us the 
c 



Digitized by 



26 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



essential facts of a decimal water mixture of bread and biscuit 
stuffs, e.g. :— 

1. Chlorinated Soda Solution, albuminoid heat evolved. 

2. Strong Acid Permanganate, albuminoid and carbohydrate. 

3. Supernatant Portion, dextrino-saccharines. 
Saccharines are estimated in 5 per cent, solution to obtain 

standards, from which data the various saccharine solutions ma/ 
be estimated. For example : one gram of cane sugar was 
dissolved and made 20 centims with water. Of this solution 1 
centim afforded 9 0 Fahr., i e., 180 0 for the gram of cane sugary 
we see that a £ per cent, solution of sugar would afford nearly 
one degree of heat, hence the constant factor for cane sugar is 
•55, or nearly the same as that for albuminoid. AH syrups 
suitably diluted can be estimated. Degrees evolved multiplied 
by factor and by dilution. One gram of glucose in the same 
way affords nearly double the temperature of cane sugar ; arr 
experiment indicated 330 0 Fahr. so that the factor is 
approximately '3 for glucose. Dextrose is still higher, and 
approaches tartaric and citric acids. 

Citric Acid. — One gram dissolved in 50 centims of water, 
of this solution 1 centim afforded 7 0 Fahr., or 350 0 for the 
gram of citric acid, the factor is, therefore, '28. For example, 
1 centim of lemon juice from a squeezed lemon diluted with water 
to 3 centims, of this solution one centim afforded 1 1 degrees of 
heat, corresponding to 9J per cent, of citric acid, viz. : — 
1 1 0 x '28 x 3^=9*24 per cent, citric acid. 

During one minute the temperature of citric acid solutions" 
are scarcely noticeable, during the next minute the temperature 
rises with effervescence, and the whole experiment is concluded 
in three minutes. 

Tartaric Acid. — One centim of 2 per cent, solution of 
tartaric acid afforded 8° Fahr., or 1 centim of 1 per cent, 
solution 4 0 ' Hence the factor for tartaric acid is '25. For 
example : 1 gram of cream of tartar put in a small mortar with 
a little water, and a few centims of potash or soda solution added 
to dissolve it, and the whole made up with water to 20 centims. 
Of this solution 1 centim afforded 13° Fahr., or 1 gram o( 
cream of tartar 260 0 Fahr. The factor for cream of tartar is, 
therefore, nearly '4. By making our own standards cream of 
tartar can be accurately estimated by thermometric oxidimetry* 
So alcohol, glycerine, honey, malt extract etc. 



Estimation of Copper Reducing Sugars.— Dr. Barker- 
Smith uses two methods in routine work. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



27 



(a) One centim of Fehling's solution is measured into a 
graduated test and gently boiled, the weak saccharine solution 
(i per cent.) is added drop by drop until the last trace of purple 
has disappeared. The points are, to keep the copper solution 
gently boiling throughout, and to bring critical observation to 
bear on the last trace of purple. Should the copper solution 
show signs of decomposition on boiling, before the addition of 
the saccharine solution, it is unfit for estimations. Too much 
yellow tijnt in the supernatant, after the experiment, means too 
much saccharine solution was added. The supernatant portion 
in the test tube should be as limpid as water. The constant 
dividend for a centim of Fehling's solution is half ('5), and the 
divisor is the centims required to decolourise, and the quotient 
is the percentage of glucose, e,g t Remember any dilution made 
and allow for same. 

Centims decolourising. Glucose per cent. 



•5 




I'O 


•6 




•83 






71 


•8 




•65 


•9 




•55 


I'O 




'5 


2*0 




•25 


30 




•16 


40 




•12 



It is clearly seen by this table that the small quantity of sugar 
contained in a filtrate obtained from a mixture of flour in water 
(one in ten or twenty), amounting in some cases to only '04 per 
cent, in a decimal mixture of flour and water, could scarcely be 
estimated by a centim of Fehling's solution. Hence for such 
weak solutions of saccharines, such as one in twenty flour fil- 
trates, the next quantitative test is of the greatest use and of 
great simplicity. 

(b) A solution of glucose or maltose in water has no 
immediate reaction upon the cold subnorme of permanganate, 
but if lightly caramelised in a definite way by boiling one minute 
only from the commencement of boiling with one-tenth its 
volume of liquor potassae, i.e., solution of potash of the phar- 
macopoeia strength, the cooled caramelised solution reacts on the 
cold subnorme, and affords a most accurate quantitative test for 
glucose and maltose. 

For Example. One gram of flour is triturated with a little 
water in a mortar for 2 minutes, and more water added to afford 
20 centims of mixture. This mixture is poured upon a paper 
filter, and we shall obtain about 16 centims of filtrate. Suppose 
we find 8*8 centims decolourise the subnorme ='07 9 per cent 



Digitized by 



23 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



soluble albumen in the filtrate. Caramelise : i centim of 
liquor potassae and 9 centims of the filtrate, boil one minute from 
the commencement of boiling and cool. Of this caramelised 
splution 6*6 centims decolourise the subnorme=*io6 per cent, 
of albumen. Difference '027 per cent, maltose, or -54 per cent, 
in the flour. The constant dividend for maltose^ caramelised, is 
practically the same as that for albumen, hence there are only 
these two simple experiments required to obtain the percentages 
of soluble albumen and maltose in any given sample of flour or 
meal. All yellowish-brown colours can be accurately matched 
and recorded by means of the acid permanganate run into 5 
centims of three per thousand solution of iodide of potassium, 
e.g.) 1 centim of acid permanganate affords colour one, 2 centims 
of acid permanganate colour two, but even tenths are noted. So 
a caramelised sugar solution which gives say colour two means 
•2 per cent, glucose, etc. 



Estimation of Fat in Milk. — The albuminoids are 
estimated by the permanganate subnorme, and the lactose or 
sugar by the sugar tests. 

For example : 1 centim of milk, diluted to 5 centims with 
water, of this mixture V2 centim decolourises subnorme or r* 
milk the norme. This reaction is due to albuminoids, and is 
neither due to sugar nor fat. 

Fat. — Pour 5 centims of the well-shaken milk into a 
graduated test tube, add 10 centims of the ether mixture and 
shake the tube well. Place the tube in a cup of hot water 
(no° Fahr.) for a quarter of an hour, and read off the floating 
fat at a temperature of about 70° Fahr. The oily layer should 
measure half a centim. 

The usual quantities are 10 centims of milk, 20 centims of 
ether mixture, and a Marchand's tube. The factor for 10 
centims of milk is 2*33, plus about 1 per cent, for fat in solution, 
i.e. vol. x 2*3 +1*2 per cent. 

The Ether Mixture. 



Solution of Ammonia 
♦Rectified Spirit (90 vol.) 
*Ether (720) 



1 centim. 
50 centims. 
50 centims. 



Diastasic Estimations. — Malt extracts are not expected 
to have a diastasic value higher than malt itself. Unless samples 
are brought forward with special claims at a special price, etc., 

•Methylated Spirit and Ether of required strength are sufficient. 



Digitized by 



. THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



*9 



they should be considered to have only a malt value. Taka 
Diastase serves as a comparative standard of diastasic value. 
Make a i per cent, solution, the subnorme informs us that it is 
nearly a \ per cent, solution of albuminoid equivalent. Hence 
to estimate the presumed diastasic value of a cereal, a decimal 
solution must be made of that cereal as in the estimation of 
sugar. 

We can always tell the prima facie claim by the percentage of 
albuminoids ascertained by the permanganate subnorme. 

For Example. — i gram of bread triturated in a small 
mortar with four centims of the diastasic solution or filtrate until 
the bread becomes a paste, say two minutes, make the mixture 
up with more diastasic filtrate to 20 centims. Transfer to a test 
tube and heat the mixture gently to 145 0 Fahr., remove the 
source of heat, let it stand 10 minutes, dilute with water and 
estimate the glucose or maltose. 

Multiplication by 20 makes the percentage referable to the 
bread, suppose the standard, a 1 per cent, solution or mixture 
of taka-diastase, had been used, then we should obtain 25 per 
cent, of glucose, or 25 units of diastasic value, i e., 25 per cent, 
of the bread was converted into sugar, or 23 deducting 2 per 
cent, for the sugar already in the bread. Presumably an 
absolute diastasic albumose would afford 100 units of diastasic 
value. 

It is not necessary to ascertain the standard, it may be 
accepted as experimentally true. The dilution of a cereal or 
malt must be remembered, and the percentage or units re- 
ferred to the malt or cereal itself. 



"JE3G-G- COOKERY:' 

How to cook and serve Eggs in 200 novel and appetising ways. 

By M. ALFRED 8UZANNE. 

{Formerly chef de cuisine to the Duke of Bedford^ JC.G., and the Earl of Wilton.) 
The above work, with its 200 clear and easily followed recipes, is a valuable revelation to 
the cook and housewife of the culinary capabilities of the Egg. It should have a place 
in every bakehouse, hotel and restaurant, as well as in the domestic kitchen. 

PRESS OPINIONS. 

The late Mr. George Augustus Sala, in his well-known work the " Thorough Good Cook," 
thus refers to Egg Cookery : — " When I tell you that the chef to the Duke of Bedford has 
sent me a little book, of his composition, in which there are at least two hundred recipes 
for dressing eggs, you will be able to form an idea of the variety and skill with which the 
French dress this eminently palatable and nourishing food." 

" This book may be heartily commended to the notice of housewives troubled about the 
variety of their breakfasts."— The Quebn. 

" We think that nurses and those who have to bear with crochety appetites of con- 
valescent patients will find this book very useful."— Hospital Gazette. 

Price Is., or post free Is. %d. t direct front the Publishers—* 

NEWTON & ESKELL, 59 & 60 Chancery Lane, London. 



Digitized by 



3° 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



A. 



Absorption (absorbed). This term denotes the passage of 
a gas or vapour into a liquid or solid substance, or that of a 
liquid into the pores of a solid. Thus water absorbs carbonic 
acid. gas, lime absorbs water, etc. 

Abstract. Separate ; withdrawn from connected objects ; 
not concrete ; pure ; abstruse. Abstract idea, the idea of some 
quality as distinct from the object in which it inheres, as whiteness. 
Abstract term, one expressing an abstract idea. 

Acetate. A salt formed by acetic acid united with a 
base. 

Acetum (acer t sour). Vinegar. The varieties of vinegar 
known in commerce are : wine vinegar, malt vinegar, and sugar 
vinegar. The strongest malt vinegar is termed proof vinegar, and 
is called by the manufacturer No. 24 ; it is estimated to contain 
4*73 per cent, of real acetic acid. These vinegars are formed by 
fermentation. 

Acidum aceticum. The sour principle which exists in vinegar. 
It occurs, ready formed, in several products of the vegetable 
kingdom, and is generated during the spontaneous fermentation 
of many vegetable and animal juices. By real acetic acid is 
meant such an acid as occurs in a dry acetate ; it cannot exist in 
an uncombined state. 

AcetaL A compound of aldehyde with ether ; formed by the 
. action of platinum black on the vapour of alcohol with the 
presence of oxygen. It is a colourless, very fluid liquid, having 
a peculiar odour, suggesting that of Hungary wines. 

Acetas, An acetate ; a salt formed by the union of acetic acid 
with an alkaline, earthy, or metallic base. 

Acetone. The new chemical name for pyro-acetic spirit) a 
limpid, colourless liquid, prepared by distilling a mixture of two 
parts of crystallized acetate of lead and one part of quicklime in 
a salt-glaze jar. It is highly inflammable, and burns with a white 
flame. 

Acetyl. A hypothetical radical, produced by the abstraction 
of two atoms of oxygen from ethyl, by oxidating processes. It 
pervades a series of compounds, including acetic acid, from which 
it derives its name. 

Achromatic. — Destitute of colour; a term applied to tele- 
scopes haying lenses so arranged as to avoid being coloured ; 
al§o to microscopic powers. 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



3* 



Acid. A compound which is capable of uniting in definite 
proportions with alkaline bases, and which, when liquid or in a 
State of solution, has either a sour taste, or reddens blue litmus 
paper. 

Aerial. Belonging to the air. 

Aeri-form {forma, likeness). Air-like ; a term applied to 
gaseous fluids, from the resemblance to common air. 

Aerolite (a stone). Air-stone; meteoric stone; a mineral 
substance which falls through the air. 

Aerostatics. The science that treats of the equilibrium of 
air, or elastic fluids, or of bodies supported in them. 

^Ether {ether). A highly volatile and inflammable fluid, pro- 
duced by the action of acids on alcohol. 

JEther sulphuricus rectificaus. L. Rectified ether. This is 
the ethereal liquid sold under the names of Ether and Sulphuric 
or Vitriolic Ether. 

jEther nitrosus. Nitrous ether, or the Naptha Nitri. 

Alt Iter sulphuricus. L. Sulphuric or Vitriolic ether, or Naptha 
Vitrioli. 

Affinity {affinitas, relationship). That kind of attraction by 
which different bodies combine to form new bodies, as in the 
case of an acid with an alkali, forming a salt. The term was 
introduced from the idea that chemical attraction takes place 
between those substances only which resemble each other. 

1. Single affinity is the power by which two elementary bodies 
combine. 

2. Elective affinity denotes the preference which -one body 
manifests in combining with another, rather than with a third, a 
fourth, &c. 

3. Double elective affinity occurs when two compounds decom- 
pose each other, and two new compounds are formed, by an ex- 
change of elements. This is also called double decomposition, or 
complex affinity. 

4. Quiescent affinity is that which tends to maintain the ele- 
ments of a compound in their present state, preventing decompo- 
sition. 

5. Divellent affinity is that which tends to arrange the parti- 
cles of a compound in a new form, producing decomposition. In 
mixing different compounds, if the sum total of the divellent be 
more powerful than thajt of the quiescent affinities, decomposition 
takes place. 

6. Disposing affinity is that which promotes the tendency of 
the bodies to combine in a particular way, by presenting to them 
a third substance which exerts a strong attraction to the compound 




32 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



they form ; when the combination has been effected, the third 
substance may be withdrawn, or reciprocal affinity ; elementary f 
when it takes place between the elementary parts of bodies ; and 
resulting, when it is a compound only, and would not take plactf 
with the elements of that compound. 

Air (aer). In popular language, this term denotes the atmos* 
phere^ or the gaseous fluid which surrounds the earth. It con- 
sists, when pure, of 20 oxygen and 79 nitrogen : it contains how* 
ever, carbonic acid, varying from 3 to 8 parts in 10,000 by weight. 
The term is also generally used to denote gas, or a permanently 
elastic or aeriform fluid. 

Albumen (albus, white). Albumen is of two kinds, animal 
and vegetable. The main solid constituent of the white of egg 
gives its name to the whole group. The blood of many animals- 
contains it, and also most of the vegetable juices, and it is found 
in certain seeds. It exists in two forms, soluble and insoluble y 
100 parts of pure dry albumen contain carbon 53*5, hydrogen 7 0^ 
nitrogen 15*5, sulphur i*6, oxygen 22*4. 

Alcohol (an alchemical term for the essence of bodies, separ- 
ated by sublimation from the impure particles). Ardent spirit of 
wine. A term applied to the pure spirit obtained by distillation 
from all liquids that have undergone vinous fermentation. When 
diluted with an equal weight of water, it is termed f roof Spirit, or 
Spiritus tenuior of the Pharmacopoeia. The first product of dis- 
tillation is technically called low wine, and is again subjected tor 
distillation. The latter portion of what comes over are called 
feints, and are reserved for a further process in the wash-still. 
The second product is termed raw spirit, and when again distilled 
is called rectified spirit. The strongest alcohol which can be pro- 
cured is termed absolute alcohol, to denote its entire freedom from 
water. 

Aldehyde. A colourless liquid, one of the products of the 
oxidation of alcohol. Its name is derived from the first syllables 
of the words tf/cohol and dehydtogznaXMS. Aldehyde is, in fact/ 
alcohol minus hydrogen. 

Alkali (Arab, al, the, kali, the name of a particular plant, and 
an old name for Potash). A substance which unites with acid 
in definite proportions, and changes vegetable blues to green. 
It is. of three kinds: — 1. The Vegetable, or Potash — 2. The 
Mineral, or Soda, or fixed alkalies, being left in the ashes of* 
inland and marine plants respectively. 3. The Animal, of 
Ammonia, or volatile alkali, being raised by distillation from 
hartshorn, &c 

Al-ka-loid. A vegetable principle having alkaline qualities 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



Alumen. Alum ; a double, or sometimes a triple salt, con- 
sisting of sulphuric acid and alumina, with potash or ammonia, 
or frequently both of them. 

Alumina. Aluminous earth. One of the primitive earths, 
which from constituting the plastic principle of all clays, loams, 
and boles, was called argil or argillaceous earth; but now, as 
as being obtained in its greatest purity from alum, is called 
alumina, or the sesqui-oxide of aluminium. 

Ammonia. Ammoniacal Gas. A transparent, colourless, 
pungent gas, formed by the union of nitrogen and hydrogen. It 
is frequently termed the volatile alkali, to distinguish it from the 
fixed alkalies, soda and potash. Its present name is derived 
from sal ammoniac, of which it constitutes the basis, and which 
received its title from being first prepared in the district of 
Ammonia in Libya. 

Ammonium. A term applied to a hypothetical compound of 
nitrogen and hydrogen. 
Amids. Digested nitrogenous matter. 
Analysis (to solve). Separation of a body, into its elements, 
or component parts. Every distinct compound, which exists 
ready formed, is called a proximate or immediate principle, and 
the process of procuring it is termed proximate analysis. The 
reduction of the proximate principles into their simplest parts 
constitutes ultimate analysis. 

Angelica Archangelica. Garden Angelica; a plant of the 
order Umbelliferce. 

Candied Angelica is made from the fresh stalks of this plant, 
boiled in syrup ; an agreeable sweetmeat 

Anhydrous (priv., water). Without water; a term applied to 
crystals and gases which are deprived of water. Compare 
Hydrates. 

Aniline. An oily liquid, which distils over when finely-pulver- 
ised indigo is decomposed by a highly-concentrated solution of 
caustic potash or soda, in a retort. 

Animalcula. Microbes. Organisms. 

Annealing, or Nealing. The process of cooling a heated 
body in a moderate temperature. If cooled too suddenly, it 
becomes extremely brittle. 

The Annealing of Glass is conducted in the same manner, and 
is necessary to prevent its flying to pieces on the application of 
violence or a high temperature. 

Aqua Fortis. A name applied by the alchemists to the 
nitric acid of the Pharmacopoeia, on account of its strong solvent 




34 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



and corrosive properties. It is distinguished by the terms 
double and single, the latter being only half the strength of the 
former. The more concentrated acid, which is much stronger 
even than the double aqua fortis, is termed spirit of nitre. 

Aqueous (aqua, water). A term in general use for designa- 
ting definite combinations with water. The term hydrate has 
long been employed for the same purpose. A prefix is used 
when there is more than one atom, as in £/#-aqueous, ter- 
hydrate. 

Assaying. The chemical operation of ascertaining the 
quantity of any metal in an ore or mixture. It differs from 
analysis only in degree ; and is performed in the dry way, as by 
heat ; in the moist way, as by acids, and other re-agents ; or by 
both methods. 

Assimilation. The conversion of the food into nutriment 

Astringents. To bind and contract. 

Atmosphere (vapour, a sphere). That volume of air which 
surrounds the earth. 

1. Atmospheric Pressure is indicated by the length of a 
column of mercury. A mercurial column, 30 inches in length, 
presses on a given surface with the same force as the atmosphere 
in its ordinary state ; and hence the force of a 60-inch column is 
equal to the pressure of two atmospheres ; that of 1 5 inches to 
half an atmosphere ; that of one inch to i-3oth of the atmos- 
pheric pressure. 

2. Atmospheres— two, three, &c. Multiplied pressures of air, 
arising from condensation, the ordinary pressure being about 
fifteen (147 lbs.) pounds on the square inch. 

Atom (priv., to cut). An ultimate particle of matter, incapa- 
ble of further division. 

Atomic Theory. A theory introduced for explaining the 
laws of definite proportions in chemical combinations. It is 
founded on the supposition that matter consists of ultimate 
indivisible particles, called atoms ; that these are of the same size 
and shape in the same body, but differ in weight in different 
bodies; and that bodies combine in definite proportions, with 
reference to those weights, which are hence called atomic weights. 
The main features of this theory are briefly : — 

1. In bodies capable of assuming tbe gaseous form, the 
weight of the atom is obtained from the volume ; thus, water 
being composed of one volume of oxygen, united with two 
volumes (or one atom) of hydrogen, the relative weights will be, 
oxygen 8, hydrogen 1, and water 9. 



x 




THE BAKERS GUIDE, 



35 



2. In bodies which do not assume the gaseous form in their 
simple state, the weight of the atom is deduced from that of the 
compound; the weight of carbon, for instance, is obtained from 
that of carbonic acid gas, one volume of which weighs 22 times 
as much as our standard of unity; of these 22 parts, 16 are 
oxygen, leaving 6 to represent the primary molecule of carbon. 

3. In the case of bodies which are incapable of assuming a 
gaseous form, either alone or in combination, the weight must be 
oDtained by analysis ; thus, marble, or the carbonate of lime, is 
found to be composed of 22 parts of carbonic acid, and 28 of 
lime : 28 therefore represents the atomic weight of lime. 

4. The atomic weights are generally supposed to be related 
to one another by multiple ; hence, this is often called the law of 
multiples, or of combinations in multiple proportion. This will 
be easily seen by referring to the component parts of the 
following substances : 

Nitrogen. Oxygen, 

Nitrous oxide 14 8 

Nitric oxide ... ... ... 14 16 

Hyponitrous acid ... ... 14 24 

Nitrous acid 14 32 

Nitric acid 14 4° 

See Books on Chemistry. 
Attemperator. A vessel for measuring the quantity and 
heat of water ; a tank fitted with hot and cold water, a thermom- 
eter showing outside the temperature of the water inside. There 
is also an indicator marked off in quarts and gallens, showing 
the quantity run in or out. A very useful tank to the baker, 
enabling him to mix water of different temperatures together, so 
that one part qualifies the other by combination, until he has the 
quantity and temperature he requires. 

Attenuation (attenuo, to make thin). The lessening of 
weight, or of consistency ; emaciation. The term is applied to 
the process by which a fluid becomes of less specific gravity, as 
when it undergoes fermentation, and parts with carbonic acid. 

Capillary Attraction. The power by which a liquid rises in a 
fine tube higher than the surface of the liquid which surrounds 
it. 

Electrical Attraction. The property displayed by certain sub- 
stances of attracting certain others, on being rubbed. 

Magnetic Attraction. The tendency of certain bodies, chiefly 
iron, towards the north pole of the earth and each other. 

Attraction of CoJiesion. The tendency of the molecules of a 
body to cohere^ to form masses. 



Digitized by 



36 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



Attraction of Affinity. The tendency of the atoms of certain 
bodies to combine, to form chemical compounds* See affinity. 

B 

Barometer (weight, a measure). A weather-glass or instru- 
ment for measuring the varying pressure of the atmosphere. 

Base. In Chemistry a body which undergoes a chemical 
change by the action of another body. 

Bath, Chemical. An apparatus for modifying and regu- 
lating the heat in various 'chemical processes, by interposing a 
quantity of sand, or other substance, between the fire and the 
vessel intended to be heated, 

Water Bath. Any vessel containing water, capable of being 
heated to the boiling point, and of containing a retort or beaker. 

Sand Bath. An iron vessel containing sand, being gradually 
heated, communicates the heat to every vessel buried in the 
sand. Those distillations which, at any part of the process, require 
as much as a low red heat, are usually performed in sand baths. 

Solution Bath, Where temperatures above 212 degs. are 
required for baths, saturated solutions are employed; these, 
boiling at different temperatures, communicate heat up to their 
boiling points. Solution baths will produce temperatures up to 
360 degs. 

Beaker. A glass vessel very thin and uniform in substance, 
and made of well-annealed glass, used for effecting solutions and 
withstanding the action of heat. 

Body. Any determinate part of matter. Its forms are the 
solid, as crystals ; and the fluid, which are elastic and aeriform, 
as gases ; or inelastic and liquid, as water. 

Boiling Point. That degree in the scale of the thermome- 
ter, at which ebullition is produced under the medium pressure of 
the atmosphere. Thus, 212 degs. is the boiling point of water, 
when the barometer stands at 30 inches; at 31 inches, it is* 
21376; at 29, it is only 210*19; m a common vacuum, it is 
70 degs. 

Brimstone. A name for sulphur. The sublimed sulphur of 
the Pharmacopoeia is termed flowers of brimstone, or of sulphur. 

Brunonian Theory. A theory founded by John Brown f 
according to which no change can take place in the state of the 
excitable powers without previous excitement ; and it is only by 
over-excitement that the excitability, with life, can be exhausted, 

C 

Calcination (calx, lime). A term formerly applied to express 
the oxidation of a metal effected by the action of the air : the 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



37 



oxide thus formed was denominated a calx, from its being earthy 
like lime. The term is now generally applied whenever any 
solid matter has been subjected to heat, so as to be convertible 
into a state of powder. 

Calcium. The metallic base of lime 

Capillary (capillus, a hair). Resembling a hair in size ; a 
iterm appled to — 

The Attraction by which a liquid rises in a capillary tube 
♦higher than the surface of that which surrounds it. 

Caramel. The name given to the porous shining mass pro- 
duced by heating sugar to a high temperature (about 325 degs). 

Carbohydrate is a name given to a class of bodies composed 
of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, in which there are two atoms 
of hydrogen for every one of oxygen. 

Carbon (carbo, a coal). A substance well known under the 
form of coal, charcoal, lamp-black, etc. In chemical language, 
it denotes the pure inflammable principle of charcoal ; in its state 
of absolute purity, it constitutes the diamond. 

Carbon, animal. Animal charcoal, bone charcoal, and ivory- 
black, are names applied to bones calcined, or converted into 
charcoal, in a close vessel. Animal charcoal is also prepared by 
calcining dried blood, horns, hoofs, clippings of hides, etc., in 
contact with carbonate of potash, and washing the calcined mass 
afterwards with water. 

Carbon, mineral. A term applied to charcoal, with various 
proportions of earth and iron, without bitumen. It has a silky 
lustre, and the fibrous texture of wood. It occurs stratified with 
various kinds of coal. 

Carbonic acid. C.0. 2 A pungent and acidulous gas, produced 
by the combustion of carbonic oxide, or by that of charcoal in 
oxygen gas. This gas was termed/^ air, from its having been 
found to exist, in a fixed state, in limestone, and the mild alkalies, 
from which it was expelled by heat and the action of acids. 

Carbonates. Compounds of carbonic acids with the salifiable 
bases. They are composed either of one atom of acid and one 
of the base, or of two of acid and one of the base ; the former are 
called carbonates, the latter bi-carbonates. 

Carbolic acid. One of the particular products which have been 
isolated in the distillation of coal. 

Caustic (to burn). A substance which destroys parts by 
chemically decomposing them. Such are the concentrated 
mineral acids, lunar caustic, etc. 

Cereal in is a diastasic principle of bran and germ. 




38 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



Chemistry. A term, of Arabic origin, signifying the know- 
edge of the composition of bodies, and of the changes of con- 
titution produced by their mutual action on each other. 

Chloral. This term, derived from the first syllable of the 
words chlorine and a/cohol, has been applied to a new compound 
of chlorine, carbon, and oxygen, prepared by the mutual action of 
alcohol and chlorine. 

Chyle (juice). The milk-like fluid absorbed by the lacteal 
vessels. 

Chyme (juice). The semi-fluid matter which passes from 
the stomach into the duodenum. 

Citric acid. An acid of lemons. It is decomposed by exposure 
to heat, and a new acid sublimes, called the pyrocitrfc. 

Clarification (clarus, clear, fio, to become). The process of 
clearing liquids. It is performed by — ■ 

1. Subsidence of the suspended particles and decantation of 
the supernatant liquor. 

2. Filtration, or straining -through filters of paper, linen, sand, 
charcoal, etc. ' 

3. Coagulation, or the admixture of albumen, or the white of 
an egg, and the subsequent action of heat, acids, etc. 

Coagulation {con and agere, to bring together). A term 
formerly synonymous with crystallization, but now applied to the 
partial solidification of a fluid body by exposure to extreme tem- 
peratures, Or by the addition of some agent. 

Cohesion (co/uereo, to stick together). The power by which 
the component particles of a body cohere, or are kept together. 
It is the opposite to expansion. 

Cold. As heat exists in all bodies, the term cold hzs only a 
negative sense, implying a greater or less privation of heat. 

Combination (cum, with ; binus, two). The union of the 
particles of different substances, by chemical attraction, in 
forming new compounds. 

Combustion (comburo, to burn). Burning ; the disengage- 
ment of heat and light which accompanies rapid chemical com- 

Combustion-heat. Animal heat produced by combination 
of the oxygen derived from the air with the carbon and hydrogen 
of alimentary substances. , 

Combustion spontaneous. This is said to occur in the human 
body; and it does occur whep masses of vegetables, as damp 
hay, or oily cotton, are heaped together. 



Comminuted. To break in pieces. A term applied to any 
substance which has been ground into minute particles. 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



39 



Compotes. Fruits preserved with sugar; generally made 
up into ornamental dishes of sweets, served at dinner. 

Compounds. — The following terms are employed in desig- 
nating compounds : — 

i. Binary \ ternary \ quaternary. These terms refer to the 
number of elements or proximate principles — two, three, or four — 
which exist in a compound. The binary compounds of oxygen, 
chlorine, iodine, bromine, and fluorine, which are not acid, ter- 
minate in ide, as oxide, chloride, etc. ; those of all other substances 
terminate in uret, as hydruret of carbon, sulphuret of iron, etc. 

a. Bis, ter, quater. These are Latin numerals, indicating the 
number of atoms of acid, which are combined with one of the 
base in a compound, as ^-sulphate of soda, etc. 

3. £>is, tris, tetrakis. These are Greek numerals, indicating 
the number of atoms of base which are combined with one of the 
acid in a compound, as ^/-chromate of lead, etc. No prefix is 
used when the compound consists of one atom of each ingredient. 
But there are many exceptions to these rules : protoxide and 
deutoxide are frequently used for oxide and binoxide respectively. 

Condensation (condenso, to make thick). The act of dimin- 
ishing the bulk of a body, as by the conversion of steam into 
water, gases into fluids, fluids into solids, etc. 

Condenser. 1. A vessel in which steam is converted into 
water, by the application of cold. 2. An instrument employed 
in electrical experiments on the same principle as the. electro- 
phone the purpose of which is to collect a weak electricity, 
spread over a large surface, into a body of small dimensions, in 
which its intensity will be proportionally increased, and there- 
fore become capable of being examined. 

Constituent. Essential, elemental, constituting, composing. 

Convex. Rising to a roundish form on the outside; 
spherical ; the opposite of concave. 

Corrosives (corrodo, to eat away). Substances which have 
the power of wearing away or consuming bodies, as caustics, 
escharotics, etc. 

Crystallization (ice). The process by which the particles 
of liquid or gaseous bodies form themselves into crystals, or solid 
bodies of a regularly limited form. 

Curcuma Paper. Paper stained with a decoction of tumeric, 
and employed by chemists as a test of free alkali, by the action 
of which it receives a brown stain. 

Cystis (a bladder). By this term is meant a membrane, 
forming a sort of shut sac, and containing a liquid or half-liquid 
matter secreted by the membrane which encloses it. 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



D 

Decantation. The pouring off of clear fluid from sediments. 

Decimal. Numbered by tens; increasing or diminishing by 
tens. See Metric System. 

Decomposition. The separation of the component parts or 
principles of bodies from each other. 

Decortication (de, from ; cortex, bark). The removal or 
stripping off of the bark, husk, etc. 

Density (densus, thick). The property of a body, by which a 
.certain quantity of matter is contained under a certain bulk. 
Opposed to rarity. 

Deoxidation (de, from, and oxidation). The separation of 
.oxygen from a body ; the reducing a body from the state of an 
oxide. 

Desiccation idesicco, to dry up). The operation of drying ; 
the state of being dry. A desiccator, consisting of a vessel con- 
taining some hygroscopic compound such as sulphuric acid, is 
used in moisture estimations for preventing the dried sample from 
re-absorbing moisture while being weighed. 

Dextrin, C 6 H 10 O 6 (dexter, right). Mucilaginous starch 
prepared by boiling a solution of starch with a few drops of sul- 
phuric acid. It then becomes a gummy substance. It is formed 
.also in bread, and is very nutritious. Its name is derived from 
its property of turning the plane of the polarization of light to the 
fight hand. 

Dia. A Greek preposition, denoting through. Words com- 
pounded with it imply extension, perversion, transition ; also that 
which in English and Latin is expressed by the prefixes di- or 
dis-, as in divido, to divide ; disjungo, to disjoin. 

Diastase. A vegetable principle which appears during the ger- 
mination of barley and other seeds, and converts their starch into 
gum and sugar for the nutrition of the embryo. The name ir 
derived from two Greek words meaning to separate, in reference to 
its property of separating two supposed constituents of starch. 

Diastasis (to separate). The act of degrading starch into 
dextrin and maltose. 

Diffusion Volume. A term adopted to express the different 
disposition of gases to interchange particles; the diffusion- 
volumn of air being i, that of hydrogen gas is 3*83 

Digester. A vessel of copper or iron, for preventing the loss 
of heat by evaporation. 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



4i 



Digestion (digero 9 from diversim gero 9 to carry into different 
parts). A term employed in various senses : — 

In Physiology \ the change of the food into chyme by the mouth, 
stomach, and small intestines ; and the absorption and distribu- 
tion of the more nutritious parts, or the chyk % through the system. 

In Chemistry^ the continued action of solvent upon any 
substance. 

Dioxide. According to the electro-chemical theory, the ele- 
ments of a compound may, in relation to each other, be con- 
sidered oppositely electric ; the equivalents of the negative ele- 
ment may then be distinguished by Latin numerals, those of 
positive by Greek ; thus a £/«-oxide denotes a compound which 
contains two equivalents of the negative element oxygen; 
whereas a dk-oxide indicates that one equivalent of oxygen is 
combined with two of some positive body. And so of ^/-chloride, 
///-chloride, &c 

Distillation (distillo, to drop by little and little). The 
vaporisation and subsequent condensation of liquids, by means 
of a retort, alembic, or still. Dry distillation is performed in the 
same way as the humid, except that the substance is neither 
immersed nor dissolved in any menstruum. It is termed 
sublimation. 

1. Distillation destructive. The subjection of bodies to a red 
heat in close vessels, and the collection of the products. 

2. Distillatio per latus, in which the vapour passes laterally 
from the retort to the receiver, where it is condensed. 

3. Distillatio per ascensum, in which the vapour ascends into 
the head of the still, and thence passes into the worm, before it is 
jcondensed. 

4. Distillatio per descensum 9 in which the vapour descends into 
£ lower cavity of the vessel to be condensed, fire being placed 
jover the materials. 

The distiller allows fermentation to proceed until the whole of the 
saccharine in the liquid is turned into alcohol, the carbonic acid 
also passing way. When fermentation has stopped, the wort is 
removed to the wash charger, and thence to the still — a copper 
boiler with a closed head — to which is attached a copper pipe 
called the worm, descending through a large tub filled with cold 
water in constant circulation. Fire and steam applied to the 
Still cause the contents to boil, the vapour arising therefrom 
passing through the worm, and is, consequently, condensed, 
issuing from the end of the worm as a liquid, called in distillery 
» Low wines." This is redistilled and reduced to spirit 

Drachm. A Grecian silver coin worth about eighteen cents. 
A Grecian weight of about 2 dwt. 7 grains troy ; usually written 
bere drachma. 



D 




4* 



THE BAKERS GUIDE, 



Dram. In medicine the eighth of an ounce, in avoirdupois 
weight the sixteenth of an ounce. 

Ductility (duco, to draw). That property of bodies by which 
they admit of being drawn out into wire or string. 

Dynamics. That branch of mechanics which treats of the j 
force of moving bodies. 



Ebullition (ebullio, to bubble up). The boiling or bubbling 
of liquids ; the production of vapour at the boiling point 

Elecampane (contracted from enula campana). The Inula 
Helenium, a plant of the order Composite, the root of which 
yields a white starchy powder called inuline ; a sweetmeat. 

Element. This term denotes, in Chemistry, a single sub- 
stance — one not known to contain more than one kind of matter, 
as the metal iron. The rust of iron, on the other hand, is a 
compound, being resolvable into metallic iron, oxygen, and car- 
bonic acid. 

Ultimate Element. The last element into which a body can 
be decomposed or analyzed (see " Chemistry Text Book '* for 
list of the names). 

Embryo. The rudiments of an animal or plant, not dis^ 
tinctly formed; pertaining to anything in its first rudiments* 
The germ of a grain as opposed to the endosperm on which it 
feeds. 

Empirical. Used and applied without science ; as applied 
to philosophy, that of experiment or facts in opposition tcr 
merely hypothetic or theoretic. 

Endo (within). A Greek preposition, signifying within. 

Endo-carp (fruit). The innermost portion of pericarp. In some 
fruits it presents a bony consistence, as in the peach, and ha* 
been termed putamen. 

Endosmosis (within, impulsion). The property by which 
rarer fluids pass through membranous substances into a cavity or 
space containing a denser fluid. 

Epi. A Greek proposition denoting upon. 

7. Epi-carp (fruit). The exterior portion of the pericarp^ 
commonly termed the skin of fruits. 

Equilibrium (cequb, equally; libro, to balance). A term- 
expressive of the equality of temperature, which all bodies on the 
earth are constantly tending to attain — and of the equal distribu- 
tion of the electric fluid in its natural undisturbed state. 



E 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



43 



Equivalents (ceoue equally; valeo, to avail). A term applied 
to the combining proportions of elementary and compound sub- 
stances, as the quantities of acid and base in salts, required to 
neutralize each other. See 14 Text Book" for instances of this 
law. 

Ergot a. Secale Cornutum. Spurred rye ; a long black sub- 
stance, like a horn or spur, formed on rye, and many other of the 
gramina, and supposed to be produced by a parasitic fungus. 

i. Ergotoztia ergota. The generic name given to the 
ergot fungus, to which was added the specific appellation of 
abortifaciens, in allusion to its destroying the germinating power 
of the grain of grasses. 

Esculent. An appellation given to those plants, or any part 
of them, which may be eaten for food. 

Essential Oils. Oils obtained by distillation from odori- 
ferious vegetable substances. 

Ether (ether). A liquid produced by a remarkable decom- 
position of alcohol, by sulphuric, phosphoric, and arsenic acids. 
It is sometimes distinguished as sulphuric ether, from the mode 
of preparing it. 

Eugenia Pimenta. The common Allspice ; a Myrtaceous 
plant, the fruit of which constitutes Pimento, or Jamaica pepper, 
commonly called allspice, from its flavour approaching that of 
cinnamon, cloves, and nutmegs. 

Evaporation. The production af vapour at common or 
moderate temperatures. 

Spontaneous Evaporation. The production of vapour by some 
natural agency, without the direct application of heat, as on the 
surface of the earth or ocean. 

Expansion {expando, to spread out). An enlargement of 
volume ; the usual effect of heat. 

Expiration (expiro, to breathe). That part of respiration in 
which the air is expelled. 

Expressed Oils. Oils obtained from bodies by pressure. 



Farina [far, /arris, corn). Meal or vegetable flour, made 
from the seed of the Triticum Hybernum, the cerealia, legumes, 
etc. 

Fecula (fax, the grounds or settlement of any liquor). 
Originally, any substance derived by spontaneous subsidence 
from a liquid ; the term was afterwards applied to starch, which 
was thus deposited by agitating the flour of wheat in water ; and, 
lastly, it denoted a peculiar vegetable principle, which, like starch, 



F 




44 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



is insoluble in cold, but completely soluble in boiling water, with 
which it forms a gelatinous solution. 

Fibre. A filament or thread of animal, vegetable, or mineral 
composition. Woody fibre or lignine ; the fibrous structure of 
vegetable substances ; cellulose. 

Fibril. A small filament, or fibre, as the ultimate division of 
a nerve. The term is derived from fabrilla, dim. of fibra 9 a 
filament 

Fibrin. A tough fibrous mass, which, together with albumen, 
forms the basis of muscle. The gluten of flour contains 7 1 per 
cent, fibrin. 

Filament (filum, a thread). A small thread-like structure, or 
fibre, as that of a nerve, etc. 

Filtration (filtrum, a strainer). The act of straining fluids 
through paper, linen, sand, etc. The strainers are termed filters. 

Fusion (fusus, melted, from /undo, to pour out). The state 
of melting. Substances which admit of being fused are termed 
fusible, but those which resist the action of fire are termed 
refractory. Fusion differs from liquefaction in being applied 
chiefly to metals and other substances which melt at high 
temperature. 



Gaseous. Being in the form of gas ; aeriform, 

Germ. A seed bud; first principle ; origin. The only por- 
tion of a wheat grain containing life, and from which the root is 
projected ; is about 2 per cent, of the grain, and eradicated by 
roller millers because of the soluble albuminoids it contains, 
and because a'.so of its fat. 

Germinate. To bud ; to sprout 

Glutinous. Viscous; viscid; tenacious. 

Granular. Consisting of grains, or resembling grains. 



Heat. What is heat? There are two theories of what heat 
is : The Material and the Dynamical. The material theory 
says that heat is a kind of matter, a subtle fluid stored up in the 
interatomic spaces of bodies. The dynamical theory, or as it is 
sometimes called the mechanical theory, is more modern, and for 
that reason is accepted now as being the most correct, it having 
had the latest thought on heat, and the knowledge of all sub- 
jects becomes more exact, and is evolved as time goes on when 



G 



H 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



45 



it receives the concentrated thought of research. This modern 
dynamical theory says that heat is not matter, but only a con- 
dition of matter and a motion of its ultimate particles — that 
heat is a brisk agitation of the insensible parts of the object 
which produces in us that sensation, from whence we denominate 
the object hot. So that what in our sensation is heat, in the 
object is nothing but motion. 

All heat is of the same kind, whether produced by burning 
of fuel, or by mechanical means (friction or force applied to 
a body), or by the change of state in the passage of a less 
stable body to a more stable arrangement of atoms, whether 
the change is produced by a chemical combination or decom- 
position. Molecular changes are nearly always attended with 
evolution or absortion of heat. But though all heat is of the 
same kind it is not always of the same quantity. (A half- 
sovereign is gold, but there is not so much gold in it as in a 
sovereign). 

This brings the subject to the difference there is between the 
thermal state of a body and the quantity of heat there is in it. 
Take as an example 1 lb. of water at ioo°c, and 2 lbs. at the 
same temperature. It must be obvious to you that though both 
are the same in temperature, there must be a larger quantity of 
heat in the 2 lbs. than in the 1 lb. Very briefly I will explain 
this. The temperature of a body is a measure of the degree of 
its heat. , This is the work of the thermometer. The measure of 
the quantity of heat in a substance is the number of heat units 
there are in it, what I do mean by units of heat, all 
measurements of the quantity of anything must have a 
standard unit to start from. The standard unit in the measure- 
ment of the quantity of heat is the quantity of heat necessary to 
raise 1 gram of water 1 degree from o° c. to i° c. To see how 
much heat, therefore, there is in the 1 lb. of water it is only 
necessary to find out how many grams it contains — which is 373. 
The heat of this lb. of water was ioo° and therefore this 373 
must be multiplied by 100, viz., 37,300 heat units are in it, and 
of course double that number in the double quantity of 2 lbs. at 
the same degree of heat. The weight of water in grams, 
multiplied by the number of the degrees of temperature through 
which it is raised equals the number of H. U. (heat units) in it. 

Hot and Cold are terms generally used, but they are merely 
different degrees of the same thing — Heat. 

Sensible or free Heat is that which produces the sensation of 
heat, or affects the thermometer. 

Latent Heat is that portion which passes into bodies during a 
change of form, without elevating their temperature ; as into ice 




4 6 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



at 320, as it becomes water, and termed Heat of fluidity ; or into 
water at 212 0 , as it passes into vapour, and termed Heat of 
vaporisation. The latent heat of water is 8o° c , of steam 540 00 . 

Specific Heat is the (unequal) quantity of heat required by 
similar quantities of different bodies to heat them equally. The 
specific heat of water is 23 times as great as that of mercury ; 
thus, if equal weights of the former at 40 0 , and of the latter at 
160 0 , be mixed together, the resulting temperature is 45°. This 
quality of bodies is called their capacity for heat. 

Absolute Heat denotes the total amount of heat in bodies. 

Evolution of Heat denotes that which is set free on a change of 
capacities in bodies, from greater to less, as in combustion, on 
mixing water with sulphuric acid, or alcohol, &c. 

Absorption of Heat \ the reverse of the former, as in the melting 
of ice, the evaporation of water, or other fluids, &c. 

Diffusion of Heat denotes the modes by which its equilibrium 
is effected, viz., by conduction, radiation, and convection : — 

Conduction of Heat. Its conduction along the molecules of a 
body, or its passage through bodies ; those which allow it a free 
passage through their substance, as metals, are termed good con 
ductors ; those of a different quality, bad conductors. 

Radiation of Heat, or its emission from the surface of all bodies 
equally in all directions, in the form of radii — or rays ; these, on 
falling upon other bodies, are either reflected, absorbed, or trans- 
mitted. 

Convection, or the conveying of Heat, as when a portion of air, 
passing through and near a fire has become heated, and conveys 
the temperature acquired from the fire by means of currents. 
The convection of heat, philosophically considered, is in reality 
a modification of the conduction of heat ; while the latter may 
be viewed as an extreme case of radiation. 

Hermetic Seal (Mercury). The closing of the end of a 
glass vessel when heated to the melting point. The name is 
derived from the Egyptian Hermes, supposed to have been the 
father of Chemistry, which has been called the Hermetic Art 

Hilum. The point of the seed by which it is attached to the 
placenta. This is the base of the seed. 

Homogeneous (like, kind). The term denotes substances 
made up of parts possessing the same properties. Heterogeneous, 
on the contrary, denotes that the parts are of different qualities : 
thus, in minerals, sandstone is a homogeneous, and granite a 
heterogeneous, body. 

Hydr, Hydro (water). A prefix generally denoting the 
presence of water in definite proportions; but owing to the 
changes of nomenclature, it sometimes denotes the presence of 
hydrogen in certain chemical compounds. 



x 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



47 



Hydf-acids. Hydro-acids ; a class of acid compounds into 
which hydrogen enters as the acidifying principle ; as the hydro- 
chloric, the hydro-cyanic, etc. 

Hydr-argyrum (water, silver; so called from its fluidity and 
colour). Formerly, Argentum vivum. Mercury, or quicksilver. 

Hydr-ates. Chemical compounds of solid bodies and water, 
jgtill retaining the solid form, as sulphur, soap, etc. These are 
• also termed hydroxures, and hydro-oxidez. When there is more 
than one atom of water, prefixes are employed, as bin-aqueous, 
ter-hydrate, etc. 

Hydro-chloric acid. An acid consisting of hydrogen and 
chlorine, and long known under the name of spirit of salt, 
marine acid, and muriatic acid. 

Hydrocyanic acid. An acid consisting of hydrogen and cyano- 
gen, and commonly called prussic acid. The hydro cyanic acid of 
J$cheele contains five per cent, by weight of real acid ; that of 
the Pharmacopoeia contains about two-fifths of the above weight. 

Hydrogen (to produce) . A gas formerly termed inflammable air, 
phlogiston, or phlogisticated air : its present name refers to its 
forming water \ when oxidated. 

Hydro-meter (a measure). An instrument for measuring the 
gravity of fluids. When floating in liquid, it rises in proportion as 
the density of the liquid increases ; it is graduated from I'ooo to 
i*o6o, so as to exhibit at once the specific gravity. 

Hydrous. Watery; containing water in its composition. 

Hyper (over or above). This prefix is a Greek proposition, 
denoting excess. In Chemistry, it is applied to acids which con- 
tain more oxygen than those to which the word per is prefixed. 

Hypo. A Greek proposition signifying under \ or deficiency. 
In chemistry, it denotes a smaller quantity of acid than is found 
in the compounds to which it is prefixed, as in hypo-sulphuric 
acid, etc. 

Ice. Glades, Solidified water. The temperature at which 
it is solidified is called the freezing or congealing point, or 32 0 of 
Fahrenheit. During liquefaction, its temperature is not changed ; 
And, hence, the heat which it has absorbed is said to have 
become latent. 

Immiscible. Incapable of being mixed. 

Incineration (incinero, to reduce to ashes, from cims, a 
cinder). The reducing to ashes by burning. The combustion 
jof vegetable or animal substances for the purpose of obtaining 
their ashes or fixed residue. 

Induction. That law by which an electrified body induces in 
contiguous substances an electric state opposite to its own. 




48 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



Infusion (in/undo, to pour in). The operation of pouring 
water, hot or cold, on vegetable substances, for the purpose of 
extracting their soluble and aromatic principles; also signifies 
the solution thus obtained. 

Insolubility (in, not ; solvo, to loose). A property, resulting 
from cohesion, by which a substance resists solution. 

Inspiration (inspiro, to inhale). That part of respiration in 
which the air is inhaled. 

Integral Particles {integer, entire). The most minute 
particles into which any substance, simple or compound, can be 
divided, similar to each other, and to the substance of which 
they are parts. Thus, the smallest portion of powdered marble 
is still marble; but if, by. chemical means, the calcium, the 
carbon, and the oxygen of this marble be separated, we shall 
have the elementary or constituent particles. 

Iodine, a crystallized solid substance, found in marine 
plants ; it becomes volatile by a slight increase of temperature, 
and forms a beautiful violet vapour. A solution of iodine detects 
starch by turning it blue. 

Iodides or iodurets. The compounds of iodine with metals, 
and with the simple non-metallic substances. 

Isolate. To separate from ; detached. 

Iso (equal). This prefix denotes equality, or similarity* 
Hence, — 

1. Iso-barysm (weight). Similarity of weight, supposed to be 
the cause of the identity in the size and shape of molecules 
which cohere into the crystalline form. 

2. Iso-chromatic (colour), Having the same colour, as applied 
to lenses. 

3. Iso-chronous (time). That which occurs in equal time, as 
the stroke of the pulse, the vibrations of pendulums of the* 
same length, etc. 

4. Isomeric compounds. Noting compounds made up of the 
same elements in the same proportions, and yet having very 
different properties, e.g., starch and dextrin. 

5. Iso-morphous bodies (form). A term applied by Mitscher* 
lien to different bodies which assume the same crystalline form } 
their relation in form is called isomorphism. When the relations 
are not exact, but nearly so, they may be supposed to give 
origin to plesio-morphism (near), or an approximation to 
similarity of form. 

6. Iso-thermal (heat). Of equal degrees of heat, as applied 
to lines of equal temperature in physical geography. Lines drawn 
through places having the same summer and the same winter, are 
denominated isotheral (summer) and iso-cheimal (winter) lines. 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



49 



L 



Legumen (/ego, to gather). A legume ; a one-celled, two- 
valved, superior fruit, dehiscent by a suture along its face and its 
back, and bearing seeds on each margin of its ventral suture. 

1. Legumen bmentaceum. A lomentum; a fruit differing 
from a legume in being contracted in the spaces between each 
seed, and there separating into distinct pieces. 

2. Legumin. A peculiar principle, found in the fleshy 
cotyledons of the seeds of papilionaceous plants. Legumin, 
cerealin and albumin are the chief soluble albuminoids of flour. 

LeguminosaB (legumen, a legume). The Pea tribe of Dicoty- 
ledonous plants. Herbs with leaves alternate ; stamens perigy- 
nous, monadelphous, or diadelphous ; ovarium superior, solitary, 
simple ; fruit leguminous. 

Lens (lens, lentis, Latin, a bean). Properly, a small roundish 
glass, shaped like a lentil, or bean. 

1. In Physics, the term is applied to any transparent medium, 
of certain forms : these are, the convex, which converges the rays ; 
the concave, which disperses them ; the plano-convex, having one 
surface plane, and the other convex ; the double convex, having 
both sides convex ; the plano-concave, having one surface plane, 
the other concave; the double concave, having two concave 
surfaces ; and the meniscus^ having one side concave, and the 
other convex. 

2. In Anatomy, the term is applied to the crystalline humor of 
the eye. Shortsightedness is occasioned by the convergence of 
the rays to a point before they fall upon the retina, and a concave 
lens is employed to delay their convergence ; in longsightedness, 
the rays do not converge to a point till they have passed the retina, 
and the convex lens is employed to promote their convergence. 

Light. The agent of vision. It is distinguished into two 
kinds, viz., natural light, proceeding from the sun and stars ; and 
artificial light, proceeding from bodies which are strongly heated ; 
this glowing or shining appearance is called incandescence. The 
phenomena of light may be referred to the following heads : — 

1. Radiation, or the emission of light, like that of heat, 
in all directions, in the form of radii, or rays. A collection of 
such rays accompanying each other, is termed a pencil. The 
radiant point is the point from which diverging rays proceed ; the 
focus, the point into which converging rays are collected. 

2. Reflection, or the rebound of a ray of light, as of heat 
from a polished surface; the angle of incidence being equal to 
the angle of reflection. 

3. Reflection, or the break of a natural course of a ray of 
light, as it passes into a transparent substance, as glass or water ; 




5o 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



this is termed ordinary refraction, If a ray fall upon the surface 
of Iceland spar, or certain other substances, it will be split into 
two portions, making an angle with each other, and each pursuing 
its own separate course ; this is called double refraction ; one of 
these rays following the same rule as if the substance were glass 
or water, the other undergoing extraordinary refraction. 

4. Polarisation, or the property by which a ray of light, after 
its emergence from the substance, or reflection from the surface, 
of a body, acquires poles or sides with different properties, in 
relation to the plane of its incidence. Polarised light may be 
procured from common light in three ways, viz : — 

1. By reflection from the surfaces of transparent and opaque 

bodies. 

2. By transmission through several plates of uncrystallised 

bodies. 

3. By transmission through bodies regularly crystallised, 

and possessing the property of double refraction, as 
Iceland spar, etc. 

5. Decomposition, or the division of a ray of light, in traversing 
a prism, into it constituent colours ; the appearance thus produced 
is called the prismatic spectrum. See Prism. 

6. Phosphorescence, or the emission of light from certain sub- 
stances. These are artificial compounds, as Canton's phos- 
phorus ; some bodies when strongly heated, as marble, certain 
marine animals, in the living or dead state, as the medusa, the 
herring, etc. ; certain animalculae, as the fire-fly of the West 
Indies, the glow-worm, etc. ; vegetable substances, as rotten wood, 
peat-earth, etc 

Lime. The oxide of calcium ; an alkaline earth, found as a 
carbonate in marble, chalk, and limestone. These substances 
become lime, when burned in a white heat. 

1. Quick lime. The name of limestone which has been burned, 
and undergone a change of properties. 

2. Slaked lime. The powder produced by pouring water 
upon quick-lime ; the water is absorbed, the lime swells, evolves 
heat, and falls to powder. It is then termed dry lime, in contra- 
distinction to that of lime-water, the former being simply a hydrate, 
the latter holding lime in suspension with a large quantity of fluid. 

4. Milk or cream of lime. The hydrate of lime diffused 
through water. 

Liquefaction (liquefacio, to melt). The passing of a substance 
from the solid to the liquid state, — one of the effects of caloric. 
This term is sometimes synonymous with fusion, with deliquescence, 
. and with solution. 

Liqueur. A spiritous liquor, composed of water, alcohol, sugar, 
and some aromatic infusion, extracted from fruits, seeds, etc. 




I HE BAKERS GUIDE. 



The same aromatic infusion may give its name to liqueurs of 
different qualities; thus, one proportion of ingredients gives 
4au de noyau ; another, crime de noyau ; etc The French 
distinguish three qualities, viz : — > 

The Ratafias, or simple liqueurs, in which the sugar, the 
alcohol, and the aromatic substance are in small quantities ; as 
Anise-water, noyau, etc. 

The Oils, or the fine liqueurs, containing more saccharine and 
spirituous matter ; as anisette, curacoa, etc. 

The Creams, or superfine liqueurs, as rosoglio, maraschino, 
Dantzic, etc. 

Liquid (liqueo, to melt). An inelastic fluid. All liquids may 
be arranged into two great classes, viz., simple liquids, as mercury ; 
and compound liquids, as combined gases, etc 

Litmus. A blue pigment obtained from the Lichen Orcella. 
In an earlier state of its preparation, it is of a purplish red colour, 
and is then called archil, orchall, and orseille de Canaries. Litmus 
is employed by chemists for detecting the presence of a free acid. 

Litmus paper is prepared by digesting powdered litmus in 
water, and painting with it white paper which is free from alum. 



Maceration (macero, to make soft by steeping). The steeping 
of a body for some time in cold or warm water. 

Magnesium. A metal having the colour and lustre of silver. 
At a red heat it burns brilliantly, and forms magnesia. 

Malic Acid (Z>or., malum, an apple). An acid existing in 
apples, but generally prepared from the berries of the Sorbus 
aucuparia, or mountain ash. By dry distillation it yields 
another acid termed the maleic. 

Malting. The process of making malt ; it consists in the 
inducing of an artificial growth or germination of barley, by 
steeping in water, and then evolving the saccharine principle by 
the application of heat. This process consists of four distinct 
stages, viz : — 

1. Steeping, or immersing the grain in water for about two 
days, until considerably swelled. 

2. Couching, or depositing the grain in heaps on the couch- 
frame, for about thirty hours ; it then becomes warm and disposed 
to germinate. 

3. Flooring, or spreading the grain on floors in layers of a few 
inches in thickness, to prevent its unequal or partial germination. 

4. Kiln-drying or arresting the progress of germination, when 
the saccharine matter is freely developed, by exposure to a grad- 
ually increasing temperature in the kiln. 



M 




52 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



Manganese. A greyish-white metal, found in the ashes of 
plants, the bones of animals, and in many minerals. The 
binoxide, used in Chemistry, is commonly termed native black or 
peroxide of manganese. 

Matter (materia). The general term for designating all pon- 
derable bodies; their ultimate particles are called atoms. 
Material substances have two kinds of properties, physical and 
chemical, and the study of their phenomena has given rise to two- 
corresponding branches of knowledge, natural philosophy and 
chemistry. 

Maximum (superl. of magnus, great). A term denoting the 
greatest possible quantity or effect ; it is opposed to minimum, or 
the least possible ; and to medium, or the mean between these 
extremes. 

Melting Point. That point of the thermometer at which a- 
solid becomes fluid. Thus ice melts at 32% sulphur at 2i8° r 
gold at 5237 0 Fahr. 

Menstruum. A term synonymous with solvent. A liquid 
which does not change the nature of the substance to be dissol- 
ved. Thus pure water is employed to dissolve gum, alcohol to- 
dissolve resins, and acids to dissolve the bases of colchicum and 
squill. 

Mercury. A metal differing from all others in being always- 
fluid, unless subjected to a temperature of 39°, when it becomes 
solid. Some of its names suggest its silvery appearance and 
liquid form, as hydrargyrum, or silver water ; others, its mobility 
and liquidity, as well as its remembrance to silver, as argentum 
vivum, aqua argentea, aqua metallorum and quicksilver. Its- 
volatility has also gained for it the name of that locomotive per- 
sonage, the message of the gods. 

Metals. For table and explanations, see " Chemistry Text 
3ook.' 

Metre. The French standard measure of length, equivalent 
to 39*371, or very nearly 39$ English inches. The French* 
measures ascend and descend in a decimal progression. 

Metric System. This is the French standard of weights and 
measures, and is on account of its convenience and simplicity 
now commonly employed by men of science throughout the 
world, and you will do well to master it because of that fact. 
And the more this uniformity of usage becomes general the 
better for all, for it will do away with the waste of time and 
inaccuracy incurred in converting the weights and measures of 
one nation into those of another nation. It will be a boon to- 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



S3 



the English nation when it is adopted ; for how are you to get a 
decimal out of a shilling, a hundredweight, or a yard ? 

The unit of length is the metre, which is equal to 39*37 
inches, and 10 centimetres are very nearly 4 inches, while a 
millimetre is almost exactly a^th of an inch. 

The subdivisions of the metre are marked by the Latin prefixes, 
Deci, meaning 10, Centi, a 100, and Milli, a 1,000. The tenth 
-of a metre is therefore called a decimetre. The hundredth of a 
metre a centimeter, and the thousandth of a metre a millimetre ; 
that is, you see, descending in a decimal progression. The 
ascending decimal progression is indicated by the Greek prefixes 
of Deca. meaning 10, Hecto, a 100, Kilo, a 1,000. Ten metres 
are therefore called a decametre, a hundred metres a hectometre, 
and a thousand metres a kilometre. 

This is the measure of length, and you will agree as to the 
system being very simple and easily acquired when you read 
that the measures of weight and capacity have the same prefixes, 
and mean the same number. Thus, the Gram is the unit of 
weight, and Litre is the unit of capacity and therefore 

The 10th of a gram is a decigram. 

The 100th „ ... centigram. 

The 1000th „ milligram. 

10 grams are a decagram. 

100 ,, hectogram. 

*ooo „ kilogram. 

The 10th of a litre is a decilitre. 

The 100th „ centilitre. 

The 1000th „ millilitre. 

10 litres are a ... decalitre. 

100 „ hectolitre. 

1000 „ kilolitre 

Now for a further explanation of this simple system. — 1 
•cubic centimeter at 4 0 c. (written in books, c.c.) weighs 1 gram, 
and a 1,000 c.c. is equal to a litre of water, and a litre of water 
weighs 1,000 grams (1 kilogram). 

This shows the correspondence between the French 
and English Weights and Measures: 



I. — Measures of Length, 



Millimetre 
•Centimetre 
Decimetre 
Metre 



Decametre 

Hectometre 

JCiiometre 



English inches. 
•03937 
•39371 
3*93710 

3937100 = Mil. 
39371000 = o 
3937*10000 = o 
39371*00000 = o 



Fur. 



4 



o 
o 



213 I IQ'2 



Yds. Feet. In. 

10 2 97 
109 1 1 




54 



.THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



2. — Measures of Capacity. 



Millilitre 

Centilitre 

Decilitre 

Litre 

Decalitre 

Hectolitre 

Kilolitre 



Milligram 

Centigram 

Decigram 

Gramme 

Decagram 

Hectogram 

Kilogram j 



Cubic inches. 
•06103 
'61028 
6*10280 
61*02800 
610*28000 
6 1 02 80000 
61028*00000 



Tuns. 

= o 
= o 
= o 
= I 



English, 
Hds. Wine Gal. 

o o 
. o 2 
o 26*419 
o 12*19 



Pints, 
2113J 



3. — Measures of Weight. 

English grains. 
•0154 



o 

o 

2 



Pound. 
I 



Ounces. 
12 
1 



•1544 
1*5444 
15*4440 
154*4402 
1544*4023 
15444*0234 



l.— Tray Weight. 

Drachms. Scruples. 
96 = 288 
8 = 24 
1 = 3 
1 



Avoirdupois, 
Pounds. Ounces. 



Grains. 
5760 
480 
60 
20 
I 



Pound. 
I 



Gallon. 
I 



Ounces. 
16 
1 



2. — Avoirdupois Weight, 

Drachms. Grains. 



256 = 
16 

I = 

3. — Measures. 

Pints. Ounces. Drachms. 
8 = 128 = 1024 
1 = 16 128 
1 = 8 
I 



7000* 
437*5 
27*34375 



Drachms^ 
5*6 5 
8-5 
5 



Grammes^ 
37296 
31*08 

3*885 
1*295 
o 06475 



Grammes* 
= 45326 
28*328 
1*7705 



Cub. inches. 
231* 
28*875 
1*8047 
0*2256 



Litres. 
= 378515 
= o*47398 
= 0*02957 
= o 00396- 



N.B.— The English ale gallon contains 282 cubical inches. 

Micro-organisms are those organisms which can be seen* 
only by aid of the microscope, such as bacteria, bacilli, and 
yeast. 

Molecule (dim. of moles, a mass), A minute particle of a 
mass or body. It differs from atom, in being always considered 
as a portion of some aggregate. 

1. Complex organic molecule. An association of two or more 
binary compounds, comparatively simple constitution, often* 
isolable substances and possessed of considerable stability. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



55 



2. Integrant molecules. The name given by Haiiy to the 
last particles into which the nucleus of a crystal can be mechan- 
ically divided. 

Multiple (multus, many). A number which includes another, 
a certain number of times; as 6 the multiple of 2; 18 the 
multiple of 6, etc. 

Muriatic Acid (muria, brine). The hydro-chloric of the 
present time, formerly called spiritus salis, etc. ; an acid con- 
tained in great abundance in sea-water, in combination with soda 
and magnesia. It consists of chlorine and hydrogen. Its salts 
are called muriates or hydro-chlorates. 



Nascent State (nascor, to be born). A term applied to the 
state of gases, at the moment of their generation^ before they have 
acquired the repulsive power. 

Neutral Salts. Salts in which the base is perfectly saturated 
with the alkali, thus possessing the character neither of acid nor 
alkaline salts. 

Neutralization. A term denoting the loss of characteristic 
properties, which frequently attends chemical combination. It 
is exemplified when an acid and alkali are combined in such. 

Nitras. A nitrate ; a compound of nitric acid with a salifiable 
base. 

Nitre. Saltpetre. The common name of the nitrate of 
potash. When fused, and poured into moulds, it is called sal- 
prunella^ or crystal mineral ; when mixed with charcoal, and 
burnt, the residuum was formerly called clyssus of nitre ; mixed 
with carbonate of potash and sulphur, in a warm mortar, it forms 
the fulminating powder ; mixed with sulphur and charcoal, it 
forms gunpdwder ; and when mixed with sulphur and fine saw- 
dust, it constitutes the powder of fusion. 

Nitric Acid. A constituent of nitre of saltpetre. From its 
corrosive qualities, it is commonly called aqua fortis. 

Nitrogen (nitre, to produce ; so called from its being a gen- 
erator of nitre). An elementary principle, constituting four-fifths 
of the volume of atmospheric air. It was formerly called mephitic 
air. 

Nitric oxide, or nitrous gas. Formerly called nitrous air ; but 
more properly deutoxide of nitrogen. When mixed with atmos- 
pheric air, nitrous acid vapours are produced, of a red or orange 
brown colour. 



N 




56 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



Nitrous acid. Formerly called fuming nitrous acid. 
Peroxide of nitrogen. A compound forming the principal part 
joi the nitrous acid vapours above mentioned. 



Objective. The object glass in a telescope, microscope, etc., 
being the glass which receives the image of the object at its focus. 
A powerful objective contains many lenses, thus making it the 
most expensive part of the instrument. 

Organic. Pertaining to or consisting of organs. Organic 
bodies are such as possess organs, on the action of which depend 
their growth and perfection. Organic laws are those which are 
fundamental to the constitution, or elementary. Organic remains, 
those of animals or vegetables petrified or imbedded in stones* 
Organic bodies. Organised vegetable and animal bodies are 
termed organic, and matter without organisation and incapable 
of life is inorganic. 

Organic Force. A term applied to that power which resides 
in organised bodies, on which the existence of each part depends, 
and which has the property of generating from organic matter 
the individual organs necessary to the whole. It exists already 
in the germ, and creates in it the essential parts of the future 
animal. The germ is potentially the whole animal ; during the 
.development of the germ the essential parts which constitute the 
actual whole are produced. The result of the union of the 
.organic creative power and organic matter is called organism, or 
the organised state. 

Oxidation. The process of converting metals or other sub- 
stances into oxides, by combining with them a certain portion of 
oxygen. It differs from acidification, in the addition of oxygen 
not being sufficient to form an acid with the substance oxidated. 

Oxides. Substances combined with oxygen, without being 
in the state of an acid. Oxides are distinguished by the prefixes— 

1. Proto (first), denoting the minimum of oxygen as/w/oxide. 

2. Deuto (second), denoting a second proportion, as <fc«/oxide. 
This is also called £/#-oxide. 

3. Trito (third), denoting a third proportion, as to'/oxide. 
This is also called ter-oxide. 

4. Per {very muc/i), denoting the maximum of oxidation, as 
^r-oxide. 

Oxy (acid). A prefix, denoting in some terms the presence 
of acidity ; in others, the presence of oxygen ; in a third class of 
ierms, acuteness of sense or function ; and lastly, sAarp-pointedness, 



O 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



57 



Oxygen (to generate). A gas which forms about a fifth of 
atmospheric air, is capable of supporting flame, and is essential 
to the respiration of animals. Its present name was proposed 
from the supposition that it was the sole cause of acidity. It is 
tasteless and invisable. It is the great supporter of combustion. 
See chemistry book. 



Pepsin (to digest). A peculiar principle secreted by the 
stomach, and present in the gastric juice. It is artifically pre- 
pared by infusing the mucous membrane of the fourth stomach 
of the calf, which is known as rennet. 

Per. A Latin preposition, which, when prefixed to the name 
of an oxide, indicates the presence of the greatest quantity of 
oxygen which can exist in a compound of such materials, as in 
^r-oxide. 

Bi-per-. This double prefix is used, when there is more than 
one atom of oxygen in the base, as well as an unequal number of 
atoms of acid and base, as in the ^/^r-sulphate of mercury, 
where indicates the presence of two atoms of acid, and perthax 
the mercury is in the form of a per-oxide. 

Percolate. To pass through interstices ; to filtrate. 

Peri-carp. That part of a fruit which constituted the 
ovarium of the pistil. It consists of an outer coat, or epicarp ; 
^n inner coat called endocarp or putamen ; and an intermediate 
substance termed mesocarp. The corresponding coats of wheat 
constitute the bran. 

Phosphite. A salt formed by the union of phosphorous aciii 
with a salifiable base. 

Phosphorus (light, to bring, so called from its luminous 
appearance in the dark). A yellow, waxy substance^ originally 
prepared from urine, and afterwards from bones. 

Oxide of phosphorus. A red matter, obtained by burning 
phosphorus in air or oxygen. 

Hypo phosphorous acid. An acid obtained by the action of 
water upon the phosphures of barium. 

Phosphorous acid. An acid produced, in the form of a white 
volatile powder, by the slow combustion of phosphorus. Its salts 
^re called phosphites. 

Phosphoric acid. An acid obtained, in the form of white flakes, 
by igniting phosphorus under a large bell jar. Its salts are called 
phosphates. 

Peptones. Digested nitrogenous matter. 

Polarity. A disposition in the particles of matter to move in 
p. regular and determinate manner, and not confusedly, when 
effected by other agents. 



P 



E 




5» 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



1. Magnetic polarity. The tendency of a magnet, when freely 
and horizontally suspended, to settle spontaneously in a position 
directed nearly north and south. The two ends of the magnet 
are called its poles, — that which turns to the north, the north pole ; 
that to the south, the south pole. The straight line joining the 
two poles of a magnet is called the axis. 

2. Two polarities. A term expressive of two antagonist ener- 
gies, each of which repels that which is similar, and attracts that 
which is opposite, to itself. Thus, the two north or two south 
poles of two magnetic needles mutually repel each other ; but the 
north pole of one needle, and the south pole of another, mutually 
attract each other. 

3. Reversion of terms. The earth itself being considered as a 
magnet, or as containing within itself a powerful magnet, lying iri 
a position nearly coinciding with its axis of rotation, the south pole 
of a magnetic needle would point towards the north pole of the 
earth ; so that the north end is the south pole, and the south end 
the north pole of a magnetic needle. 

4. Boreal and Austral polarities. To avoid the above con- 
fusion of terms, the words Boreal and Austral have been applied 
to the magnetism of the earth, while the terms north and south 
have been restricted to that of the needle ; what had been called 
northern polarity, being now Austral polarity; what had beeit 
called southern, being Boreal polarity. 

5. Chemical and cohesive polarities. Two hypothetical forces, 
supposed by Dr. Prout to reside in the ultimate molecules of 
matter ; the chemical being of a binary character, existing between 
molecule and molecule, and chiefly between molecules of different 
matter ; the cohesive determining, under certain circumstances, the 
cohesion of the molecules of the same matter. 

Polarisation. The property by which a ray of light, under 
certain circumstances, acquires poles, or sides with different pro* 
perties,'hke those of a magnetic bar. 

Potassa. Potass, or potash ; the Vegetable Alkali, sp called 
from its being obtained by the incineration of vegetables. It is 
the hydrated protoxide of potassium, and is known by the names 
of potassa fusa, kali causticum, lapis infernalis, causticum commune 
acerrimum, etc. The term potash is derived from the circum* 
stance that the water in which the ashes are washed is evapora- 
ted in iron pots. 

Precipitate (praceps, headlong). A solid substance precipita- 
ted, or thrown down, from a solution, by adding a re-agent. 

Priam (to saw). A solid glass in the form of a triangle, so 
termed from its separating a ray of light into its constituent parts. 
A solid, whose bases are similar, equal, parallel, plane figures, 
and whose sides are parallelograms. 




THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



59 ; 



• Prismatic Spectrum. The variously coloured appearance 
presented by a ray of white light, when separated by refraction 
through a glass prism. This appearance consists of an oblong 
image, containing seven colours, which are called simple, or 
homogeneous, in opposition to white light, which is called com- ? 
pound or heterogeneous. 

Protein. A gelatinous semi-transparent substance obtained 
from albumen, etc, insoluble in water, and said to be the basis of 
animal tissue. 

Proto (the first). This prefix denotes the lowest degree in 
which one body unites with another, as /r<?/-oxide. Per denotes 
the highest degree, as /^r-oxide. 

Protoplasm (first, anything formed or moulded). A term 
applied to the mucilaginous granular contents of the vegetable 
cell, which is concerned in the elaboration of new cells. The 
main internal portion of yeast cells. 

Proximate Principle. A term applied, in analyzing any 
body, to the principle which is nearest to the natural constitution 
of the body, and more immediately the object of sense, as distin- 
guished from intermediate or ultimate principles. 

Ultimate Principles are the elements of which proximate prin- ' 
ciples are composed. 

Ptydine is a diastasic principle of saliva. Pronounced " tT-a- 



Rarefaction (rarus, thin, faao, to make). The act of 
making a substance less dense ; also the state of this diminished 
density. The term is generally applied to elastic fluids, which 
expand by means of heat, and thence become thinner or more 
rarefied. 

Reaction (re again, ago, to act). A chemical change. 

Reagent (re, again, ago, to act). A substance employed in 
chemical analysis, for ascertaining the quantity or quality of the 
component parts of bodies, by re-acting upon their elements. A 
substance that detects the constituents of a mixture. 

Rectified Spirit, or alcohol in nearly its highest state of 
concentration, commonly called spirit of wine. It varies from 
54 to 60, or even 64 per cent, over proof, in the language of 
Sike's hydrometer 

Reduction (reduco, to bring back). A chemical process, by 
which a substance is reduced, or restored, to its natural state ; 
generally applied to the restoration of metallic oxides to the 
metallic state. 



lin. 



R 




6o 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



Retort. A globular vessel of glass or metal, etc., with a lon£ 
neck bent over on one side, and used for distillation. Some 
retorts have another neck or opening at their upper part, through 
which they may be charged, and the opening afterwards closed 
with a stopper ; these are called tubulated retorts. 



Sac. A bag. A term, applied to a small natural cavity, as 
Sac of the embryo. The name given to the innermost integu- 
ment of the nucleus of a seed, etc. 

Sal. A Salt. A definite compound of an acid with an 
alkaline, or salifiable base. Salts are distinguished by the six 
following prefixes : — 

Super \ denoting excess of acid in general, as super-taxlxa.te of 
potash. 

Sub, denoting excess of the base, as j^-borate of soda. See 
Sub salt 

Bi, denoting two equivalents of acid, as sulphate of potash. 
Quadr, denoting four equivalents of acid, as quadr-oxalaite of 
potash. 

Sesqui, denoting one equivalent and a half of acid, as sesqui- 
carbonate of ammonia. 

Oxy, denoting the presence of a perfect oxide as oxy muriate. 

Deliquescent salts are those which attract moisture from the 
air, and become liquid, as the nitrates of lime and magnesia. 

Efflorescent salts are those which lose a portion of their water 
of crystallization, and fall into powder, by exposure to the air, as 
sulphate and phosphate of soda. By a strong heat the whole of 
the water is expelled, and the salt, if soluble, is dissolved, under- 
going what is called watery fusion. 

Permanent salts are those which undergo no change on 
exposure to the air. 

Decrepitating salts are those which burst, when heated, with a 
crackling noise, into smaller fragments, as the nitrates of baryta 
and lead. 

Neutral salts are those in which the base is perfectly saturated 
with the acid. It does not, however, follow that neutrality and 
saturation accompany each other : an alkali may unite with an 
acid so as to saturate it, though it still manifests alkaline pro- 
perties. 

Double salts t formerly called triple salts, are composed of one 
acid and two bases, of two acids and one base, or of two different 
acids and two different bases. 

Native salts are mineral bodies, resembling precious stones or 
gems in their external character, and so named to distinguish 
them from artificial salts. 




THE BAKERS 1 GUIDE. 



Sub-salts, or neutral salts, are those in which the excess of 
oxide does not stand in the relation of base to the acid. 

Common salt, or Bay salt, a muriate of soda, is procured, by 
evaporation, from sea water, or from the produce of brine 
springs, or from mines. 

Solution (so/vo 9 to dissolve). The act of dissolving a solid 
or aeriform body in a liquid ; this liquid is called the solvent. 
Also, a liquid containing a dissolved body. 

Spore. The reproductive body in Flowerless plants, which is 
anologous to the seed of Flowering plants, but differs from this in 
not germinating from any fixed point, but in producing its root 
and stem indifferently from any point of its surface. 

Symbols, Chemical. An abbreviated mode of expressing 
the composition of bodies. The elementary substances, instead 
of being written at full length, are indicated by the first letter of 
their names, a second letter being employed when more than 
one substance begins with the same letter, — thus C stands for 
carbon, Al for aluminium, As for arsenic, &c. Sometimes the 
substances are indicated by their abbreviated Latin name : for 
instance, sodium chloride or common salt is written Na. CI. and 
not Sod. CL 



Temperature (tempero, to mix various things in due propor- 
tions). The comparative degree of active heat accumulated in a 
body, as measured by an instrument, or by its effects on other 
bodies. Temperature, however, must not be confounded with 
"quantity of heat." A cup of water dipped from a gallon 
would be of equal temperature, but would not contain equal 
quantity of heat as a gallon. 

Tenacity (teneo, to hold). The degree of force with which 
the particles of bodies cohere, or are held together; a term 
particularly applied to metals which may be drawn into wire, as 
gold and silver. 

Thermometer. Literally, a measurer of heat ; an instrument 
for comparing the degree of active heat existing in other bodies f 
by its effect in expanding a column of mercury. 

i. Fahrenheit 's Thermometer. That arrangement of the scale 
of the instrument, in which the space between the freezing and the 
boiling points of water, under a medium pressure of the atmos- 
phere, is divided into 180 parts, or degrees, the freezing being 
marked 32 0 , and the boiling 212 0 . This scale was adopted 
by Fahrenheit, because he supposed, erroneously, that 32 of 
those divisions below the freezing point of water (which was 
therefore o on bis scale) was the zero, or Greatest degree of cold. 



T 




62 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



a. Centigrade Thermometer. This is the thermometer of 
Celsius, which is used in France, and is the most convenient 
in practice : it consists in that arrangement of the scale in which 
the freezing point is marked o, or zero; and the boiling 
j>oint 100. 

These different modes of graduation are easily convertible : 
the scale of Centigrade is reduced to that of Fahrenheit by multi- 
plying by nine and dividing by five, and adding 32 0 ; or that of 
Fahrenheit, by reversing the process. Thus — 

C. ioo°x 9=9004-5= 180+ 32?= 212° F. 
Or, by reversing the order — 

F. 212 0 — 32= 180 x 5 = 900^-9= 100 0 C. 
This table is added, shewing the correspondence of the two 



thermometers. 








Fahrenheit. 


Centigrade 


Fahrenheit. 


Centigrade. 


212 


loo* 


100 


3777 


200 


9333 


90 .. 


32*22 


190 


87 77 


80 


2666 


180 


82*22 


70 .. 


21*11 


170 


7666 


60 .. 


15*55 


160 


71*11 


50 .. 


10* 


150 


65-55 


40 


4*44 


j 140 


6o- 


30 


o* 


130 


55*55 


20 


— 6-66 


120 


4888 


10 


.. — 12*22 


110 


43*33 


0 


.. — 1777 



Tissue. Tela. A web, or web-like structure, constituting 
the elementary structures of animals and plants. 



V 

; Vaporization. The conversion of a liquid or solid body 
into vapour. This may be considered under two heads, viz : — 

1. Ebullition, or the production of vapour so rapidly, that its 
escape causes a visible commotion in the liquid ; the temperature 
at which this takes place is called the boiling point. 

, 2. Evaporation, or the production of vapour in a quiet and 
insensible manner at common temperatures. 

Vapour (vapor). Any liquid expanded into an elastic or 
gaseous fluid by means of heat. It differs from gas in its want 
of permanency, for it returns into the liquid state when exposed 
to a diminished temperature. Bodies which are so convertible 
by heat, are termed volatile ; those which resist the heat of the 
furnace without vaporising, are said to be fixed in the fire. 

Viscid. Not readily separating, sticking together, glutinous. 

Vis Inertias. Inertness, or the principle of inactivity, by 
which a body perseveres in the same state of rest or motion, in a 
straight line, unless obliged to change it by a foreign force, 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



63 



" Vis Vitae. The natural power of the animal body in pre- 
serving life. 

Volume (volumen, from volvo\ to roll. The apparent space 
which a body occupies is called its volume; the effective space 
which the same body occupies, or its real bulk of matter, is its 
mass ; the relation of the mass to the volume (or the quotient of 
the one by the other) is its density ; and the empty spaces, or 
voids, which render the volume larger than the mass, are itf 
fores. 

Definite volumes. The union of gases is always effected in 
pimple proportions of their volumes : a volume of one gas com- 
bines with an equal volume, or twice or three times the volume, 
of another gas, and in no intermediate proportion ; this is called 
the law of definite volumes. 



Water. A compound of hydrogen and oxygen in the pro- 
portion of two atoms of hydrogen to one atom of oxygen. It is 
a powerful solvent, and absorbs and holds the gases which are 
present in the atmosphere. It is estimated that nearly three feet 
of water, in the form of rain, snow, etc., fall upon the surface of 
Great Britain every year, being sufficient to average over fifteen 
tons per day to every individual. Of course the greater part 
falls upon the ground, and cannot be used for cleansing or 
drinking purposes. Fifteen tons is enough to enable each to 
"wash and be clean," with a drop to spare for cooking appa- 
ratus, machinery and farm; but if unused or allowed to 
remain stagnant may mean fever and undertaker, and should 
necessitate a constant supply, and no cisterns or tanks, or at 
least, a monthly cleansing of tanks. 

The total solid extract— mostly impurity — given by water analy- 
sis, when a sample has been evaporated to dryness, represented 
in best river water, is about three parts per 100,000; from deep 
wells— best — 10 to 15 ; from chalk wells, 20 to 30. The appear- 
ance of water is no guide to the wholesomeness of its condition ; 
crystal clear water is often made so by the chemical action of 
sewage upon it. 

Degrees of hardness of water is estimated by equal grains 
present of hardening salts — carbonates, calcium, magnesium, etc* 
For each grain present, estimate one degree of hardness. 
Ordinary temporary hardness is due to the presence of carbonates 
of calcium and magnesium, which are precipitated by boiling ; 
but such boiling must be continued for some time — say quite an 
hour. The permanent hardness of water is due to - the presence 
of sulphates — lime, magnesia — and is not altered by boiling. 



W 




6 4 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



Carbonate of soda, added to boiling water, will decompose these 
sulphates. 

To soften water, for breadmaking, or for culinary, purposes, 
where carbonate of soda cannot be used, mix one ounce of 
quicklime with every 30 gallons of water, dissolve, and well mix, 
and allow to settle for 1 2 hours. The sediment will be ordinary 
whiteing. If necessary, to ascertain the exact amount of lime 
required, mix a solution of nitrate of silver, using distilled watet 
for the pupose, put a few drops into a white earthenware vessel— 
a gallipot will do — and add the hard water and lime in definite 
quantities until the faintest yellow tinge is produced. The 
measure of hard water and the weight of lime used, will then 
determine the proportions necessary for perfect softening. 

Simple tests for water are : For impurities in suspension, boil 
down a quart in an evaporating dish (any porcelain vessel that 
will stand the heat) to dryness. If the deposit is white, there is 
not much the matter with it for health, but if yellow or green 
tints are present, or if gummy and emits a smell like burning 
leather or feathers, then these signs show the presence of hurtful 
organic matter. If the water is impregnated with vegetable refuse, 
manure, etc., a few drops of an acidulated 5 per cent, solution 
of permanganate of potash will be discoloured— all the purple 
taken out of it. The chemistry of this reaction, decayed organic 
matter attracts oxygen, and the permanganate contains oxygen in 
a state be removed in this way. The more organic matter the 
more drops of permanganate will be discoloured. Try two or 
three different kinds of water. 

Ice, water, steam superheated to gaseous vapour, are all the 
same thing — it is all water at different temperatures, ice being 
only solidified water. 



Zero (probably from the Arabic tsaphara^ empty). Nothing, 
It is used to denote a cypher, and to fill the blank between the 
ascending and descending numbers in a scale or series. 

Zsymae. Is a diastasic principle of yeast. 



Z 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



65 



CHAPTER III. 

ABOUT OUR RAW MATERIALS. 

Flour, Yeast, Sugar, Carbonates, Acids, Butted, 
Margarine, Eggs, etc. 
The Gas-Engine and Fermentation. 

IT is not sufficient for the workman to know how to put certain 
quantities of ingredients together, he ought to know some- 
thing about the ingredients. It is not enough for the hang- 
man to know how to tie a proper sort of knot, and to know 
the position to put it in so as to asphyxiate, he should know about 
the make up of the rope, and its strength, or it may break and 
spoil his work. The carpenter may know how to push a plane 
and use a saw, but unless he knows something of the different 
properties and characteristics of yellow and white deals, pine, 
oak mahogany, solid geometry, etc., he will not be worth much in 
the labour market. What would be the good of a doctor ^fj 
knowing the position of a nerve or artery, he did not know how 
to use or the size or shape of lancet to use ? It is absolutely 
essential to his success that the baker should know as much as 
he can about his materials. 

The less waste the more profit, and should be 

better stipend- 
Some things look better than they are by being placed by the 
seller upon a suitably coloured sample paper, which, though en- 
hancing the appearance of the article, does not add to its intrinsic 
value. Be careful of blue sample papers when buying flour, castor 
sugar, etc. Have a constant remembrance that raw materials 
must be bought with a reference to the price to be obtained for 
the manufactured article. A tradesman lives by profit, and a 
workman by the excellence of his work, such excellence being 
judged by the class of work turned out from a particular class of 
materials, whether the material be common or first class. 




66 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



ABOUT FLOUR FROM WHEAT. 

The constituents of flour can be conveniently shown in 
simple words as follows : — 



It y will be seen the constituents are divided into three main 
classes. The carbo-hydrates are so called because they are com- 
posed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, and hydrogen and oxygen 
being found in them in the proportions of two to one, namely, in 
the proportions in which they form water (H 2 0). The albumi- 
noids are the nitrogenous portion, or those parts of the floor 
which contain nitrogen and nutriment. The mineral matter con- 
sists of phosphoric acid, potash and magnesium, and such salts as 
are taken from the soil during growth. The proportions of these 
constituents vary, and in some cases considerably, according to 
the variety and condition of the flour ; but the starch, gluten, and 
water constitute fully 90 per cent, of the grain, in the respective 
approximate quantities of 65 to 70 per cent, starch, 12 per cent, 
water, and about 1 2 per cent, of albuminoid and proteid (gluten, 
fibrin, and albumen). 



It will be useful to the baker to know the difference between 
different kinds of grain, to consider the constitutents of the 
chief cereals, and to compare them, not only among themselves, 
but also with the more important articles of food employed by 
nian. In the following table you will find a statement of the 
component parts of these cereals, wheat, barley, oats, rye, maize, 
and rice. The student must, however, remember that wheat, 
oats, rye, barley, maize, and rice have nearly the same chemical 
composition, but that the quantities in each of starch, cellulose, 
water, fat, sugar, albuminoid and proteid matter vary consider- 
ably, and that different samples of the same cereal also vary in 
the proportions of these constituents — that a wet wheat will 
contain more water than a dry wheat, and a strong more 
albuminoid matter than a weak, and therefore there are different 
percentages in different samples. 



Albuminoids ... 



Carbo-hydrates 




Mineral matter, Ash. 

Water. 



The Composition of Cereals. 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 67 
Average Composition of the Grain of Cereals. 



Water 

Starch 

Fat 

Cellulose , 

Cum and Sugar 
Albuminoids ., 

Ash 

Loss, etc 



Old 
Wheat 



ill 

623 

1*2 

8*3 
3-8 
10-9 
16 
0.8 



100*0 



Barley 



527 
26 

115 
4-2 

132 
28 

10 



IOO'O 



Oats 



142 

561 
4-6 

I'O 

57 
1 6*o 

2*2 
Q'2 



IOO'O 



I4'3 
54*9 

2*0 

64 

Vs 

r8 
0-5 



IOO'O 



Maize 



""5 

54.8 
47 

149 

29 

8'9 
16 
07 



IOO'O 



Rice 



io-8 
78-8 
o*i 

0*2 

16 
72 
0-9 
0-4 



ioo-o 



Bearing some of these numbers in mind, if we take the fol- 
lowing table, having reference to the articles of food most used by 
man, we find that the ratio of carbon to nitrogen, in the case of 
flour, is 38 to 1*7, in meat as 30 to 2, in potatoes as 11 to '3. We 
therefore notice that in the case of these cereals we have a con- 
siderable quantity of flesh-forming albuminoid matters, more 
especially in the case of wheat. 

Average Composition of Articles of Food. 



Foods. 


Dry 
Substance. 


Carbon. 


Nitrogen. 


Nitrogen, 
to 100 
Carbon. 


Milk 


Per Cent. 

45'Q 
85-0 
85*0 

1 O'O 

6o*o 


Per Cent. 
300 
01. 0 
680 

5*4 
30-0 


Per Cent. 
2.0 
1-4 

O'O 

05 
4*5 


PerCent. 
66 
2-3 

9'3 
125 


- y Average Composition of Articles of Food. — Continued. 


Foods. 


Dry 
Substance. 


Carbon. 


Nitrogen. 


Nitrogen 
to 100 
Carbon. 




Per Cent. 
85 0 
640 
870 
S50 
87-0 


Per Cent. 
380 
285 
400 
40*0 
39 0 


Per Cent. 
172 
1*29 

175 
2 0 

I'O 


Per Cent. 
4*5 
45 
44 

256 




25 0 
150 
850 
950 


I I'O 

60 
39o 
40*0 


o*35 
02 

3*65 
00 


3'* 
33 
94 



Digitized by 



Google 



68 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



• We may conveniently divide the constituents of the cereal? 
into three classes. In the first group, those constituents which, 
by being burnt up in the system^ produce heat. They are the 
materials which we call carbo-hydrates — the starch, the gums f 
and the srgars ; it is from the oxidation of these carbo hydrates, 
and also from the fat in our food, that the greater portion of the 
force which man exerts is derived. The next great division it 
will be convenient to take is the albuminoids, or flesh-forming 
elements of the cereals ; and, lastly, the ash, which, although not 
great in quantity, is still most important in its bearing on the 
physiological phenomena which go on in the cells of animal life, 
and also because it is from the mineral matter of the ash that the 
bone structure of man is built up. 

* The ash of wheat contains nearly one-half of phosphoric acid. 
There is also a small quantity of phosphate of iron. Phosphoric 
acid, potash and magnesia are the characteristic constituents of 
the ash of wheat. 



Formula of Carbo-Hydrates. 

Starch 
and 

Dextrin 
Cane Sugar 
and 

Maltose ) 
Dextrose ^ 

and J-^C^HW 3 ) 



=(C*2H2°O 10 )n. 
• =(C 12 H 2? O u ). 



Loevulose 

c We use that expression in order to indicate that hydrogen and 
oxygen are found in the carbo-hydrates, in precisely the same 
ratio as they occur in water. These two elements, hydrogen and 
oxygen, do not exist m starch or sugar as water ; but they exist in 
the same proportion as they do in water, and that expression ha» 
been applied to all these bodies. 

* The next subdivision of this important class of bodies embraces* 
cane-sugar and maltose. 

* They are isomeric, that is to say, that they have precisely the 
same ratio of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen in their molecular 
composition ; but they differ from the previous sub-groups in 
having one of oxygen and two of hydrogen more in the formula 
given. The last subdivision of this group embraces the glucoses, 
the simplest formula expressing their molecular composition being 
C xa H 2 40 12 . Here also we notice an increase of two of hydrogen 
and one of oxygen over the cane-sugar group, which differs from 
the starch group in the same manner. 

Starch is the first on our lists of the carbo-hydrates to which 
I have now to direct your attention. Starch is found in various 



Digitized by 



Google 



2 HE BAKERS GUIDE. 



69 



-tregetable structures, and for much the same purpose as fat is 
stored up in animals, for the future use of the organism. 

4 If you take the caryopsis of wheat, the small embryo will be 
found at the bottom, surrounded by a large mass of starchy 
matter. It contains not merely starch, but also albuminoid bodies, 
and this, in botany, is called the albumen of the seed ; for the 
reason that, in the case of an ordinary hen's egg, the white of the 
•egg surrounding the embryo is called albumen, and in both cases 
the albumen serves for the future growth of the young embryo. 
Starch is also found very largely in the fleshy cotyledons of some 
seeds, as, for instance, the ordinary bean, horse-chestnut, or pea, 
■where practically the whole mass is made up of the two thick 
fleshy leaves, which constitute the two halves of the whole seed, 
the young embryo being at the bottom. We see, therefore, that 
an all structures which are intended for the future growth of the 
plant, or, as in the case of seeds, for the reproduction of the new 
plant, we find stored-up starch. 

Starch, however obtained, consists of minute cells, and 
these cells differ in size and also in form, according to their 
origin. The cells obtained from the potato are about iJoth of 
.an inch in diameter ; those of sago are about sooth, the cells ob- 
tained from wheat are about 500th of an inch in diameter, and 
there are many smaller than those of wheat. The cell of potato 
starch, however, is larger than most ; it is only exceeded in size 
by the cell of arrowroot. All the starches have characteristic 
Appearances under the microscope, and it is on account of the 
■difference of form and the difference in size that we are able to 
■determine the cereal from which it comes. All starches have 
the same food value and exert the same influence in the function- 
# ing ot man or beast. 

The Albuminoids and Proteids. Their general com- 
position is given in this table : — 

Average Composition of Albuminoid and Proteid Matter. 

Carbon ... ... ... ... 53*3 

Hydrogen ... ... ... ... 7*1 

Nitrogen .. ... ... ... 17-7 

Oxygen ... ... ... ... 221 

Sulphur ... ... ... ... 1 "8 

100 

The numbers given here will fairly indicate the general nature 
of the albuminoid bodies: — Carbon, 53*3; hydrogen, 7*1; 
jiitrogen, 17*7; oxygen, 21*1 ; sulphur, r8. 

The albuminoids of wheat flour differ very much from those 
of the other cereals— 10*9 is given to old wheat, 13-2 to barley, 



Digitized by 



7° 



THE BAKERS 1 GUIDE. 



1 6 to oats, 8*8 to rye, 8*9 to maize, 7*2 to rice. Oats and barley 
are very rich in albuminoids, wheat is pre-eminently rich in the 
proteine bodies, and the value of any given sample of wheat 
flour would depend entirely on the total quantity of albuminoid* 
in the wheat. 

In the husk of wheat, that which one separates under the name 
of bran, occurs another albuminoid body called cerealin. Cerealin 
has a very marked action upon starch — in other words, it acts as 
diastase and malt infusion, and the object of its being there, 
gathered together mainly in the bran, is for the purpose of enabling 
the young germinating plumule to obtain a large supply of nutri- 
ment, not entirely from the starch, but to a great extent from the ' 
cellulose structure of the outer layers of the corn. The cerealin, 
like many of the albuminoids, is precipitated by alcohol and also 1 
by acids. Now these soluble bodies, legumin, albumen, and 
cerealin, one or more of them occur in all seeds, and the reason 
why they occur in seeds is that they thereby present, under the 
germinating process, precisely what chemists use in the re- 
searches upon starch, a material which has the power to convert 
the starch, and even the cellulose, into soluble materials, because 
you will remember that starch and cellulose are insoluble in water, 
whereas when converted into various sugar bodies they dissolve, 
and can be absorbed by the cells of the young growing plant. 

The tendency of all albuminoids, even those which are in- 
soluble in water, and even that which is the most complex in its- 
structure, namely, fibrine, is to degrade, to become less and less 
complex, and ultimately, of course, to become soluble in water. 
The degradation of molecular structure is communicated to the 
complex molecular structure of starch, so that the complexity of 
the starch undergoing the peculiar degrading action which goes on 
in the albuminoid molecule is itself converted into molecules less 
complex than starch, namely, into maltose and dextrine ; in some 
cases there may be also the production of other sugars. We see t 
then, that the albuminoids are powerful degraders, or breakers 
down of the complexity of molecular structures. But that is not 
the only interesting point connected with nitrogen. Curiously 
enough, we speak of nitrogen as being inert, and as being merely 
used, as it were, for the purpose of diluting the oxygen of the 
atmosphere ; hence we are all very liable to look upon nitrogen as 
playing a comparatively unimportant role in the phenomena of 
nature ; and yet, strangely enough, were it not for the action of 
nitrogen, or rather of the compounds of nitrogen, there would be 
no life whatever in this world ; there could be no simple cell even 
built up without the action of this marvellous architect, the nitro- 
genous compound. Every cell-structure, and of course every 
large aggregation of cell-structures, such as an oak-tree or a many 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



containing many millions of cell-structures, are all built up by the 
wonderful agency of nitrogen, or rather of its compounds. But, 
while nitrogen is so important an agent, so marvellous a builder up, 
it is for very similar reasons equally powerful in breaking down. 
Whenever you have albuminoids present, if there be moisture 
sufficient, and if there be warmth sufficient, there you have the 
agent ready for degradation. 

Flour may be relatively or potentially, rather than actively, bad. 
It is hardly speaking correctly when we talk of bad flour ; some 
good is positively present in all flours, and it would be preferable 
to speak of certain kinds as being suitable or unsuitable for the 
purpose required. The flour that would be classed A, i in a 
prison, poothouse, or by the Army or Navy commissariat, would 
be called rubbish by the city baker ; and what the city baker 
would class as good, the chef ox baker of the upper classes would 
look upon as inferior ; and what he says is excellent, the whole- 
meal advocate would put down as positively injurious to health. 
Flour is only relatively good or bad according to the uses to 
which it is put. 

Flours are usually divided into four chief grades.— 

American Equivalent in English. 
ist Patents ... ... ... Whites 

2nd Patents ... ... ... Supers 

i st Bakers ... ... ... Households 

2nd Bakers ... ... ... No. 2's 

but the up and down varieties of these grades — both English and 
American — are very numerous. Some millers make a speciality 
of one grade, and make the best they can of the bye products of 
that grade ; in some cases as many as five different classes from 
the one grist of wheat. Others do not make such acute or so many 
divisions, but endeavour to make standard ist, 2nd and 3rd grades, 
I each within a Shilling or so value of the other. It will not be safe, 
therefore, to buy flour by the name of its grade. For the quality 
of that particular grade will depend upon the number of grades 
made out of the same grist of wheat. As a matter of opinion, I 
believe the English mode of classification preferable to that of 
America, and if the responsible English miller will be content 
with the profits obtained by the American, and imitate him in his 
progressive milling, and put as much brains into it as he of 
America does, then the English baker, handling whites, supers, 
households, and No. 2's, will be safer than when handling the ist 
and 2nd patents and 1st and 2nd bakers' grades of the — to him — 
irresponsible firms beyond the seas ; but, in either case, the 
baker must depend upon his own knowledge to test his flour, for 
in no case does the name of the firm or the name of the grade 
give him the security sufficient to dispense with such knowledge, 
or to save him from a money loss. 



Digitized by 



72 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



,The important and clever improvements in milling machinery 
aave paved the way for the technically and commercially educated 
miller to change the nomenclature of his flour, hence the names 
Patents, Bakers, and Straights. v Rolls enable the miller to obtain 
flour from the heart of the wheat minus the germ and the bran, 
which are cast out and not ground in and partly dressed out as 
in the case of stone milled flour. Patents are good allround 
flours, but will differ in quality and commercial value in ratio to 
the quality of the wheat employed in their making, the quantity 
of patents taken off the grist, combined with the fineness of the 
dressing. 

Straight Grade Flour 

is the name given to flour obtained from wheat without any 
part being taken away or having any other kind of flour added to 
it, and its value to the baker will depend upon the quality of the 
wheat used. Straight Grade flours are necessarily strong, dark, 
and coarse flavoured, owing to the insufficient dressing. To 
dress them finely would be to take away some of the flour, and 
then it would not be a Straight Grade. 

Bakers' Grade Flour 

is the residue of grists from which the patents have been taken — 
forty, fifty or sixty per cent., differing in quantity in different mills. 
The prevalent custom being to have hoppers and spouts fixed at 
suitable junctions, from which is run into this residue, as it passes 
along, either a bought flour from other mills or a straight run 
flour of an inferior grist of the same mill, and any other suitable 
flour. Bakers' Grades are coarse-flavoured, dark, strong flours. 
(Bakers should resent having their names put to this worst 
class of flour.) 

Whites and Country Whites. 

The acute difference in quality of these flours will forcibly 
explain what I have been trying to show in reference to the 
delusion and snare involved in buying flour by name. The 
practice of London mills is tq make Whites their standard and 
best flour. The Whites of provincial mills is the worst flour 
made, and up to 1890 the term Country Whites was synonymous 
with all that is weak and #k wish-washy " in flour, and it must be 
remembered that there is no law to make millers designate their 
flours correctly, and Patents and Whites may not be what they 
are named. A " High Ground " granulated flour, rough to the 
touch, and that will not form a ball, but breaks and separates 
easily, is evidence that not much, if any, of the best parts have 
been taken out of it ; but its actual value will depend upon the 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



73. 



quality of the grist used, the amount of the best part it contains, 
the amount of the worst parts taken away, and the mode of its 
dressing. A flour that forms a ball when squeezed in the hand, 
that feels wooly, that feels soft and greasy when rubbed between 
the fingers, and that forms beads or peas when taking the sample 
paper containing it with both hands and making a rapid circular 
motion, shows that it is a damp, damaged, or residue flour from 
which the best has been taken, and its value will depend on how 
much has been taken from it, and also upon its condition and 
dressing. 

Gluten— Gliadin, Glutenin, Fibrin. 

Or in Other Words the Muscle and Sinew of the Flour 

of Wheat. 

How to Estimate its Presence, Quantity, and Quality 
and its Value in Bread-Making. 

We are now getting into the arena of work, and may not 
occupy more space (to do our duty we could not have occupied 
less) with a discussion of the Chemistry of these subjects. 

The term gluten becomes more and more narrowed in its 
meaning to the baker as the years go by. Yesterday all the 
glutenous substances in cereals were classed as gluten ; to-day 
the word gluten covers only that part which can be separated by 
washing the flour in water, is insoluble, and when obtained is 
elastic and tenacious. There are small quantities of glutenous 
substances obtained from rice, maize, and other cereals besides 
wheat ; but they are not elastic, will not stretch out, will not 
retain the gas generated during fermentation, and hence they 
have ceased to be classed as gluten. 

Crude gluten while wet is a soft, sticky, looking mass, and 
consists of the insoluble albuminoids of the wheat ; it contains 
three albuminoids, glutenin, gliadin (vegetable gelatine), and 
fibrin. To the baker, although gluten may be by the chemists 
split up into several bodies, they have such a close relation- 
ship that it will be probably only necessary for him to call and 
know them all as gluten, at any rate this study can wait until 
to-morrow without loss to the workman. 

Gluten is insoluble in water. When gluten has been dried 
and wetted again it loses its expansive power or principle. When 
dry it resembles glue, lighter in colour, but hard and shining. 

Gluten when wet and left in contact with water is subject td 
the ordinary fate of moist nitrogenous substances. It decays 
and decomposes, and in that state, and exposed to atmospheric 



F 




74 



TlfE BAKERS' GVlDE. 



influences! it emits the usual unpleasant smell accompanying 
decay. Its elasticity is also broken down, and it will be found 
to be in a state of chemical transition, having new properties 
which will displace (according to the time it remains in the wet 
state) the power of expansion and gas-holding capacity for bread- 
making purposes ; but this chemical change also takes place in 
some degree during fermentation. The weaker, warmer, and 
wetter the dough is, the more rapid and thorough will this change 
be. This change is necessary in bread-making, we call it mellow- 
ing or ripening. It is owing to the excess and stability of 
gluten in wheat over the other cereals which makes the flour 
of wheat better for bread-making purposes than that of rice, 
barley, maize, etc. The presence in flour of a greater or lesser 
quantity of gluten does not prove its bread-making worth to the 
baker. The quality of the gluten, on the other hand, does. 

Gluten tests are easy and reliable, and afford a safe guide 
when estimating value. It is not necessary when testing for 
gluten to adhere to a particular weight or measure, except when 
it is to be comparative, and then great care should be exercised 
to the end that each sample should have equal treatment. The ^ 
water and flour of each should be carefully weighed and measured 
and every particle of gluten secured and accurately weighed. 
The colour of glutens alternates from a very pale glossy brown 
and yellow — the best, to the dark brown and slate colour of the 
worst. 

To make a Gluten test for use in the bakery, and when 
flour buying, take 20 grams flour and 10 c.c. of water, place in 
a basin and mix it into a clear dough, cover it up and let it lie three 
hours; weight 15 grams (this will give you 10 grams of flour, and 
therefore be a 10 per cent, estimation), then enclose it in a piece 
of miller's silk (or a better way when you have had some practice 
is to hold it in one hand, and gently squeeze under the water 
with the other — this prevents the sticking) ; tie the ends up 
and hold it under a dribble of water from the water-tap over the 
sink ; work it about gently with your hand until all the starch is 
washed out and the water runs away quite clear, and not milky ; 
then take out the gluten from the silk and carefully weigh it and 
tabulate how much remajns. This will show the difference in 
volume. Then take the wet gluten and test the difference in the 
elasticity by pulling and stretching, note the difference in colour, 
and then bake to show expansion when baking ; shut the gluten 
up in a tin box or inverted bread tin, and in every case so pro- 
tect it from actual contact with oven bottom that the utmost 
expansion may take place before it is fixed and set. When the 
glutens are .baked, judge difference in strength by the difference 
in size, also notice the colour after it is baked. 




THE BAKERS' GUIDE, 



75 



Please note. — The test, to be of any value, must be carefully 
carried out ; no flour must be spilt ; the dough must not be 
made with hand, because some would stick to the fingers ; use a 
glass rod, spatula, or failing these, something smooth, such as 
the handle of a metal spoon ; no dough must be allowed to 
stick to the basin, and there must be exact weight of flour and 
gluten ; lastly, see that no gluten is left on the silk. 

To test Flour for Colour Comparison. 

The following is a simple and reliable test. Press the flour 
down firmly and smoothly into a very small box and dip it slant- 
wise under water until the whole of the surface is thoroughly 
wet, withdraw and place somewhere out of the dust to dry. 
This wetted and then dried sample will show the colour the 
flour will be when wetted into dough, and then baked into 
bread or boiled as a pudding. 

There are five plain divisions of colour in flour. First and 
best, orange yellow of lighter or darker shades according to rich- 
ness in gluten, quality of grist, and fineness of dressing. Second 
And good, yellowish drown, lighter or darker according to quality 
of grist, and whether all the best of the flour is left in or 
some taken out. Third, reddish brown, a common, coarse class 
pf flour, shows that some of the fine white has been taken out of 
it. Fourth, white. The whiter a flour shows by this test, the 
higher in starch and therefore lower in gluten. It is the gluten 
which gives the yellow or pale brown. The reddish brown is 
jcaused by fine particles of bran and offal impurities. To be 
very white means that bran and gluten are both vanishing 
quantities. The fifth division is grey. A dark grey flour means 
# dirty flour. There is nothing in the wheat kernel to form 
this dark greyness. Sometimes when washing for gluten you will 
.come across a sort of a slate colour, but always in very common 
flour, and I think even a greyish or slaty gluten means dirt chiefly. 

This wetting of flour for testing the colour is very eductionalC 
It will, when understood, give you a good idea of the all-round 
.quality of the flour without further testing. Small match boxes 
rnake excellent test boxes at no cost, or if you prefer something 
better, have the same size made in zinc — not tin, it rusts. Also 
for this test a good pocket lense is very necessary, you can see 
the little black and brown specks which come from cockle and 
bran, and therefore mean bad milling, or common flour and 
.cheap flour. 

To Test For Water Absorbing Capacity. 

Weigh 20 grams of the samples of flour you wish to test, and 
#dd to them each ioc.c. of water, mix into dough, and judge of 




7 6 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



the different degrees of stiffness. To the stiffer or harder samples 
add another c.c. or two to bring them to same consistency, and 
then calculate the percentage. (If you refer back to the Metric 
System, you will see that a c.c. of waier weighs i gram, and in 
these tests you have so many drams of flour and so many grams 
of water.) 

Let the wet dough stand covered up twenty-four hours, the 
flatter it runs out the softer the flour. You will note that this 
mode adds more water to the stiffer dough,which is rather difficult. 
There is another and rather better mode, that of adding more 
flour to a given quantity of water ; this is easier to do. It is 
called the converse method, and is copyrighted by Mr. Williams, 
baker, Edenderry, Ireland, who will, upon application, give all 
particulars. 

For weighing the flour in this test and the flour and gluten in 
the gluten test, you will require a small chemical balance and set 
of gram weights, and for measuring the water a 100 graduated 
c.c. pipette, with a piece of indiarubber tubing and a spring clip 
attached. 



This is a simple, and if carefully conducted a reliable test fof 
the bread-making qualities of flours. Make your standard heat 
for testing, flour 6o°F., water ioo°F., and quantities always 21 
ounces of flour, and 11 ounces of water to start with. (This 
quantity of water is a little over half the weight of the flour. All 
normal flour will require half its own weight in water to make 
it into a pliable dough, £ lb. water to every pound of flour.) 

Small baking tests should always be baked in a tin, and as 
all such tests, to be of any value, must be for the purposes of 
comparison, they should always be baked in a tin the same 
size and the same shape exactly, and should be of a full size so as 
to prevent much of the loaf being above the top and spread- 
ing over, which, if it does, will make the measurement after 
baking uncertain. 

Some flour will be drier than others, but by practice you 
will get very near to a standard of consistence for yourself if you 
start with the 1 1 ounces of water, and then add a little more 
if firmer than your standard. 

To begin this testing it will be wise to start with all the 
flours you have in stock that you know the quality and be- 
haviour of. 

To make these tests proceed as follows : Have ready as 
many basins or pans as you have tests ; stick a lable upon 
each corresponding to name of sample. Weigh 21 ounces of 
the sample, and put it into the basin. Put on the flour $ of art 



How to make a Baking Test* 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



77 



•ounce of salt, and as much sugar as will cover a sixpence, weigh 
.on your ordinary moveable pan scales or otherwise n ounces 
of water at ioo° Fahr. Separate \ ounce of yeast into it, pour 
it on the flour, and make up the dough. If you have more 
than one, have everything for each weighed ready, and then mix 
all as quickly as possible. 

Don't spill any of the flour, don't let any remain upon the 
rn'xer. Cover these up, put in a temperature of 70 ° Fahr., and 
leave to prove two hours. Then carefully note appearance of 
.each. Knock together, have ready the tins, a label with name 
of each, mould the loaf and stick the label upon it, don't mould 
two at a time, mould one, and mark it with its label at once. 
When in the tins put each in a moist, warm place, and let prove 
until the very first sign of a cracking on top appears, and then 
bake. Some will move faster than others, so don't put all into 
pven at same time unless all are ready. When baked allow to get 
cold, and with a sharp knife cut through the middle from top to 
bottom, and with a rule measure its height ; you have already 
the length and breadch of the tin. Then note colour and general 
appearance, taste and smell, and enter all particulars in a book, 
and the name of flour and its price. You must be careful to 
tnould every loaf alike, one person only should touch testings, 
your book together with memory and experience should place 
.your judgment upon a sound basis. 

Blending Flour is a most important function, and consider- 
able care and attention should be given to this part of the day's 
work (or if possible to blend for a week or month it would be 
better still). Blend it altogether, don't separate for sponge and 
dough ; unless the stages are very unequal — a long-time sponge, 
and short-time dough ; in that case, use the hard, dry, foreign flour 
}n the sponge, and soft English, or American Winter in the dough ! 
but where the dough stands for, say, three hours, then it should 
be all mixed together. But however it is used, the point to aim 
at is the degradation of the gluten ; and the effect of putting the 
soft flour in at the same time as the hard is to hasten the 
degradation of the hard, and to increase the moisture of the loaf 
by so doing. The soft flour having become changed, it has the 
power to change others with which it may be in contact, just as 
decaying fruit will hasten the decay of the sound fruit surrounding 
it. It is essential to good bread that the starch should be more 
or less converted into gum and sugar, and yeast has great difficulty 
in doing this with hard flour if unassisted ; and if this conversion 
does not take place — at least partially — the bread will be harsh 
and lack flavour. It must therefore take place ; and the baker 
who can so adjust his working as to effect the flour conversion 
without giving the yeast time to impair or destroy it is the baker 



Digitized by 



7» 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



who will make bread universally appreciated and purchased by 
the public. Break the gluten of hard flour down, and degradi 
it as soon as you can, the quicker the degradation the less 
acid. 

The term strength, as applied to flour, is usually understood 
to mean power to retain the generated gas, to absorb water, to 
retain a tough, dry consistency in the dough stage, and to make 
a bulky, glossy piled loaf ; also, strength means to a baker a 
stability sufficient to resist and support the degrading action of 
hydration and diastasis. The more stable a flour is in its make^ 
up (soundness of grain, maturity, etc.), the better able it will be 
to sustain fermentation, and make a well-finished loaf. 

When buying flours for use in his business, the baker should 
strive to obtain a flour that will keep his bread uniform. This is 
the most important essential, as few things tend to disturb a 
connection so much as bread of a varying quality, especially when 
there is plenty of competition. Experience in business proves 
that a larger or whiter loaf is nearly as disturbing as a smaller of 
darker one, for unless that whiteness is kept up, "it will only 
serve to make the darkness more visible " when it returns ; there* 
fore always aim to obtain uniformity in size, colour and flavour. 

Buy your flour as you buy other goods, from firms of good 
reputation, who know the baker's requirements, and specially 
cater to supply them. Why do not bakers buy flour as they 
buy butter and confectionery, with a guarantee from the flour- 
sellers that no adulterants are mixed with it, that it contains a 
certain per centage of gluten, that it will absorb so many quarts of 
water to the sack, and that its colour is number so-and-so in the 
colour scale ? 

" Age " will generally improve all flours, especially those that 
are milled from soft or damp wheat, or wheats that are damped 
before milling. The effect of moisture is to degrade (break 
down, corrupt) the albuminoids, to increase the soluble matter 
to seriously interfere with the tenacity of the gluten, and lessen 
its power to retain the generated gas — this will be in proportion 
to its dampness and to the length of time it has been kept in a 
damp state. Flours should, therefore, be kept in a very dry 
place ; all soft flours should have plenty of room in the store — in 
single rows if possible, and not piled one upon another to a 
great height, which, unless in the case of hard dry flours, will be 
harmful. The storage of flour should have much more care 
bestowed upon it than is usually done in the majority of cases, 




7 BE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



19 



ABOUT YEAST. 



'EAST is intimately associated with the subject of fermenta- 
tion, and is well-nigh indispensable in bread-making, and 
for that reasons its manufacture is becoming more and 



A more important. The generations of bakers that 
have gone over to the great majority were dependent upon 
the various brewing and distilling establishments at home 
and abroad for the yeast they used in bread-making, or from 
their domestic brews ; but the limited and risky nature of the 
supply, and also the fact that the yeast so obtained was, as it 
were, only the refuse of these breweries, and not manufactured 
purposely for the baking trade, led to the growing of a yeast 
especially to meet the requirements of bread-makers, and yeast 
manufacturers generally are to be congratulated upon having 
accomplished an important improvement in yeast growing. 

It is necessary to remember that yeast may be inherently bad 
when its cells are weak or old, or it may be bad through the 
presence of foreign impurities, or it may become bad in keeping. 
In the event of its having become feeble, it may be greatly 
assisted by good nursing, by gentle warmth, and by suitable 
nourishment, such as a little added malt extract or sugar. 

In making choice of yeast, it will not do to be governed 
entirely by the reports of specialists who write testimonials, 
because they do not — nor should they — publish comparative 
tests, without which it is impossible to accurately ascertain the 
relative values of different kinds of yeast. The testimonials may 
state that the yeast submitted to microscopical examination, or to 
a baking test, was very good, or contrariwise ; further than that 
it cannot fairly go, but this, however, does not prove that this 
particular yeast is better value for money than the yeast we may 
be using, nor will it do to be governed by such statements as, 
" The size of loaves was good, flavour excellent, the pile glossy, 
and bloom good." This description does not convey a correct 
idea by any means, and would apply with far greater accuracy to 
the quality of the flour, and not to that of the yeast. There are 
flours that would not answer to this description in any one par- 
ticular, whatever kind of yeast had been used by the baker. On 
the contrary, there are flours that would turn out such bread, 
though a very inferior yeast had been used in its make up. 
Therefore, such statements prove very little. Yeast is only good 
or bad relatively, by comparison with a better or worse, as indeed 
are all other things. That is to say, there is no fixed standard 
to judge yeast by ; the safest and only way is to judge it by com- 
parison, and to prove that it is re-atively bad or good, by testing 
with a better or worse yeast. 




THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



What is Yeast, and How is it Reproduced P 

This is a question of importance to the baker, and I trust the 
answer will stimulate his desire to know more about it. The 
yeast used by bakers and brewers belongs to a cultivated species, 
having the accepted botanical name of Saccharomyces Cerevisce. 
It is composed of round or oval cells like bladders. When a 
single cell is separted from the bulk, and examined with the aid 
of a microscope objective) to determine its structural pro- 
perties, it is seen to be composed of an outer wall or envelope, 
having no opening of any kind. This envelope is filled with an 
albuminous substance called protoplasm. In this protoplasm is 
seen small holes — called vacuoles — and specks which are also 
said by some to be nuclear elements, and by others to be spores 
and young cells of yeast. Other forms of life will be seen along 
with dead matter scattered about amongst the yeast cells. When 
this cell is placed in a proper medium it reproduces itself. A 
swelling forms upon the outside of the cell, this increases in size, 
and in a short time becomes like the parent cell. This protu- 
berance gradually becomes detached, and is then a separate cell 
which, in its turn, produces other cells as soon as it attains its 
full size. Each cell usually produces about four other cells and 
multiplies very rapidly. This is reproduction by budding. 
Another view is that " when yeast is placed in a ferment tub, or 
into a sponge or dough, it is then in a state of full ripeness. The 
cells are mostly old, large, and have from one to twenty- four of 
these granular bodies or spores within each. When diffused 
through a ferment, sponge, or dough, the young spores or cells 
inside the old cells dissolve the envelope of cellulose which en- 
closes them, and escape for a free and independent life. Thus 
each old ripe cell dies in giving birth to, on an average, eight 
young cells. These young cells develop quickly, and, if in a 
fluid medium, begin to throw off buds. In sponge the budding 
is less, and in dough there is very little budding. 

There appears to be no doubt that yeast is a living organism. 
The generally accepted belief is that is a plant, and is closely 
allied to the fungi tribe. It is said that yeast is a plant, because 
it has no opening, and this is distinctive of a vegetable cell, and 
it also sprouts, assimilates mineral matter as a plant. Further, 
it cannot be a mineral, because it lives, grows, and reproduces 
itself when fed upon proper food, and decays and dies without 
it. On the other side, it is argued that there are other organisms, 
admittedly animal, which have the same continuous envelope, 
without an aperture ; and further, that yeast cannot obtain the 
whole of its food from inorganic compounds ; and in this respect 
it diners from green plant life. It is therefore like the great group 




THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



8 1 



of fungi, but in the mode of its nutrition it also approaches to 
that of animals. 

Yeast having no mouth ingests or draws its food through the 
cellulose which composes the walls of its cells, and therefore its 
nourishment must be of cry stall izable nature, such as sugar and 
amides in solution ; these pass inside easily, while starch in solu- 
tion, or undissolved, or gluten in solution, will not do so until the 
starch has been converted into sugar and the gluten into amides. 

Yeast both rises to the surface and subsides to the bottom of 
a fermenting liquid. The scum and dregs of this process were 
first examined by the microscope in the latter part of the seven- 
teenth century, by Leuvenhock, who found that they consisted of 
minute particles of a definite shape, ranging in size from to 
tcW °f an mcn m length. Cagniard de la Tour and Schwann, in 
l %35> a century later, made the remarkable discovery that these 
particles were living, growing, and multiplying, their multiplication 
taking place at a prodigious rate, by a process of budding. An 
Italian chemist, Fabroni, discovered the nature of oval yeast par- 
ticles to be that of cells, composed of a special variety of cellulose, 
and containing fluid matter, consisting of the elements carbon, 
hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, in the form of an albuminous 
substance. 

Van Helmont, a Dutch chemist, so far back as the commence- 
ment of the sixteenth century, recognised the gas evolved during 
fermentation as identical with such as is found in caves, wells, and 
cellars. Lavoisier examined the change produced in sugar by 
fermentation, and proved that nearly the whole weight of the sugar 
is represented by the sum of the weights of the alcohol and of the 
carbonic acid produced. In accordance with this fact, we say that 
the sugar is resolved into alcohol and carbonic acid. The part 
that the yeast plays in this change was undetermined until the year 
1845, when Von Helmholtz discovered that it is the living yeast- 
cell, or at any rate something inside the cell, which is the 
active ferment. It is a well-established fact, which no one now 
can call in question, that the chemical and physical phenomena 
already mentioned, namely, the resolution of sugar into carbonic 
acid and alcohol, and the upheaval or foaming of the mass, are 
intimately connected in some way or other with the life of a 
minute cellular fungus. When the life of the cells is destroyed 
by poison, the act of fermentation ceases. When the life of the 
cells is active by reason of a genial warmth, the presence of 
mineral food, albuminous matter, and sugar, then fermentation 
is briskly carried on. By the addition of a very small quantity 
of yeast to wort, a multitude of living cells are introduced into a 
liquid medium adapted in the highest degree to their nutrition, 




82 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



and they are thus capable of vegetating with most extraordinary- 
rapidity. 

The process of budding usually commences by a distortion of 
the cell at one side, which is followed by the cell-wall protruding > 
the protuberance, increasing in size, becomes more or less- 
rounded in shape; then a sort of strangulation process com* 
mences, which causes the cell-walls of the protuberance to meety 
and at last the bud becomes detached. Sometimes a cell gives- 
rise to several protuberances at once. 

If we examine a speck of yeast under the microscope with a 
high magnifying power, we observe that certain of the cells are 
more or less elongated, while others are more nearly spherical 
in shape, and they are all isolated. In many of them there are 
apparently vacant spaces which are lighter or darker than the 
surrounding parts of the cell according as the object or the 
object-glass is slightly shifted. Granulations, too, are seen in 
the cells, and they present altogether a somewhat shrivelled 
appearance, or sometimes they string together like small 
sausages, cannibal-like living upon each other. Such cells are 
suffering from deficient nutrition and insufficiency of food y 
they are, in fact, half starved. If they be transferred to- 
some fresh wort, and placed in shallow vessels so that they 
are freely exposed to the air, their appearance will be greatly 
improved. They will be seen to have filled out and become 
fatter, while the vacuoles or vacant spaces have disappeared, 
the granulations are scarcely visible, and the distended cell* 
walls are difficult to see, they are nearly all budding, and the, 
buds are at different stages of development. The characters 
of the two conditions of yeast may be shortly summed up as 
follows : 

Old Cells. — Isolation and granulation ; shrinking of the pro- 
toplasm to the cell-wall and creation of vacuoles ; shrivelled 
appearance. 

Revived Cells. — Cells distended; appear transparent to a, 
greater degree ; budding and growth of buds until detachment y 
interior gelatinous matter contains fine granulations not easily, 
seen, but appearing brilliant at a certain distance. 

Brewers are acquainted with two varieties of yeast and two. 
processes of fermentation, namely, that which occurs at a high 
temperature, and the yeast of which rises to the surface of the liquid, 
is called a " high fermentation " ; that which, on the contrary, is 
conducted at a low temperature, and the yeast of which is below 
the surface of the liquid, is called a " low fermentation." With all 
our brewers and distillers high fermentation is in universal favour,, 
it is so much more rapid in its action, and generally saves both 
time and space. To adopt the process of low fermentation in a 



V 




THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



brewery would probably necessitate a large outlay for the extension 
of premises for the storing of beer while undergoing the prolonged 
process. This latter mode of fermentation is in operation at 
lager-beer breweries, specially built for the process. Both 
the high and low yeasts are the products of careful cultivation, 
extending through past ages, the original and parent form of 
which was probably some variety of fungus growing upon eithef 
the hop or grape vine. 

Low Yeast — This may be appropriately termed German beer* 
yeast, since it is almost entirely used in the brewing of lager beer* 

The cellules are round or oval in their greatest diameter. It 
ferments wort at temperatures as low as (6° to io° C.) 43 0 to 
50 0 F. ; under such cold wort other yeast is not so active. It 
never rises to the surface, even when the temperature increases to 
(20 0 C.) 68° R, and the fermentation becomes tumultuous. Its 
budding is less branched than is the case with high yeast. 

High Yeast — The cells are rather larger than those of the low 
ferment, and present a more globular appearance. Its budding 
is very rapid and more branched in form. It rises to the surface 
of liquids during fermentation, forming a head sometimes 6 feet 
in height. It develops at (16 0 to 20 0 C.) 6o° to 6S° F. ; at low 
temperatures it is not so active. When active fermentation take9 
place, in round or oval vats, the yeast rises upwards from the 
bottom at the circumference, and travels over towards the centre. 
The smell of acetic ether is generally perceptible in the gas 
which escapes. High and low yeast may be obtained by culti- 
vation under favourable conditions from opposite varieties, and 
they belong to the same species, saccharomyces cerevisice. 

As yeast is a plant of low organization, it is necessary to sup* 
ply it with the mineral and organic material such as will con* 
tribute to the formation of fresh tissues during reproduction and 
development. To ascertain what these are, we must turn to 
chemical analysis for our knowledge. 
Purified yeast contains : 

Carbon 

Hydrogen 

Nitrogen 

Oxygen 

Ash 

And consists of : 
Cellulose, gum, and cell-membrance ..• 

Albuminoids 

Peptones 

Fat... 

Extractives (leucine, dextrin, glycerine, 

succinic acid) ... 
Ash 



49*9 per cent. 

6'5 
121 

3i'4 » 

37 per cent. 
45 » 

5 



4 
7 



Digitized by 



*4 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



It will be seen that nitrogen is a very important element, and 
nitrogenous matters must be a necessary form of nutriment for 
yeast ; for the fermentation of solutions containing a deficiency 
of such material, leguminous seeds, such as beans, should be 
steamed, and the mash so prepared be added to that about to 
undergo fermentation. The reason for this proposal lies in the 
fact that the leguminosae are rich in a nitrogenous substance 
called asparagin, which has been found to be an excellent 
nutritive material for the yeast plant. Its composition is 
C 4 H ft N 2 O s ; it is closely related to malic acid, as likewise is 
aspartic acid-C 2 H 3 (OH) (CO OH) 2 . 

It is a well-known fact that yeast can derive its nitrogen and 
carbon from ammonia salts of organic acids, as, for instance, 
ammonium tartrate. 

The use of pure and healthy yeast is a condition of the very 
highest importance, but one which has been too much neglected 
by bakers, brewers, and distillers. 

There are several kinds of yeast which produce alcohol during 
fennentation, they are named as fillows : 



The species No. 6 is found in fermenting dough (found in the 
typical Scotch bread). No. 7 only acts as an alcoholic ferment 
under special conditions. 

Some organisms can oxidize alcohol into acetic acid ; the 
Bacillus amylobacter, and the Bacillus subtilis, yield lactic and 
butyric acids from even cellulose, starch and sugar. Mucor 
t?iucedo, Mucor stolonifer, and Penici Ilium glaucum are common 
forms of mouldiness; the presence of the former, which are 
named bacteria, or rod-like organisms, cannot be recognised 
without the aid of a microscope. 

There are other kinds of yeast besides those used by bakers 
and brewers. The name of yeast is also given to a number of 
what may be termed wild or uncultivated types of fungi and 
other tiny organisms that can act as yeast and produce carbonic 
acid and alcohpl from sugar, but an important difference exists 
between the shape and appearance as well as the character of 
these yeasts as compared with what is called bakers' yeast, 
just as there is a great difference between a wild crab-apple and a 
beautiful rosy pippin. This saccharomyces cerevisice used in bak- 
ing is a highly cultivated yeast, and is the result of a continuous 



3- 
5. 



1. Saccharomyces 



Cerevisise (Bakers) 
Ellipsoideus 
Conglomeratus 
Exiginus 
Pastorianus 
Minor 
Mycoderma 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



85 



effort on the part of the yeast cultivator to produce a yeast as 
free as possible from any admixture of these wild types and other 
disease germs. 

The disease-organisms are small rod-like, or thread-like 
bodies, and much smaller in size than the yeast-cells, and more 
difficult to observe, so that a magnifying power of not less than 
400 diameters, with glasses capable of the best definition, are 
necessary. It is better to employ objectives with a magnifying 
power of 750 to 1,000 diameters. Were these disease-organisms 
absent, acetous fermentation could not take place. 

Yeast-cells may be diseased without being putrid^ and they may 
be unhealthy without being diseased. 

Yeast may become unhealthy, even when not diseased, by 
being grown for too long a time in a liquid deficient in mineral 
food; fermentation is thus languid, and those objectionable 
organisms, the filamentous ferments, may gain the race in the 
production of alcohol or acid. 

Damp yeast loses its activity at or about 128 degs. (Fahr.). 

Cleanliness of the fermenting vessels is obviously of import- 
ance, because otherwise other ferments than the alcoholic may 
easily cling to the sides, and so induce an acid or putrid fermen- 
tation; this is particularly the case with Bacterium ter mo. On this 
account it is of importance to have the fermenting vessels con- 
structed of some material which is easily cleansed. 

Yeast may be inherently bad when its cells are faint or old t or 
it may be bad through the presence oj foreign impurities \ or it may 
become bad in keeping. 

The Appearance of Weak, Exhausted) and Impure Yeast- 

Referring to weak and exhausted compressed yeast, it looks 
dull and leels soft and sticky to the fingers, or breaks up 
into small warm crumbs, not breaking with a free, clean, 
fracture ; the smell of it will not be that of sound acid fruit, 
such as apples, but that of tainted meat or flesh. If the yeast 
has been stored for a day or so, it will feel to the hands, 
and show by thermometer, warmer than the atmosphere 
where it has been stored. In proportion as it is warmer 
will it be bad. These are sure tests for soundness or un- 
soundness of yeast, and no microscope is needed. But 
to detect impurities and their nature involves microscopic work, 
and will require careful, watchful attention and practice. When 
looking at yeast through a microscope, if it is seen to have inside 
the cells a number of dark specks, and the outer skin has a 
crinkled, shrivelled appearance, it has become too exhausted to 
properly do its work ; or if the yeast has scattered amongst its 
cells a number of organisms like short pieces of thread 




£6 



1HE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



or other germs, not round or oval, which is the shape of the true 
yeast, it is then unfit for bread-making, and contains impurities 
in the shape of bacterial organisms, that the brewer or distiller 
by careless workmanship has permitted to get in it from the air 
And from unclean utensils. The ordinary common-place collector 
of yeast in the brewery is unmindful of the baker's need, he merely 
collects so much weight, that will fetch his firm so much per 
pound ; the baker's safest plan is to have nothing to do with him, 
but buy only high-class yeasts. If compelled to use faint or 
impure yeast — because you cannot get any other — use nearly double 
the quantity of yeast, and don't expect too much work from it ; 
be content with small sweet bread, obtained from a quick fermen- 
tation at a temperature of about 90 degs. (Fahr). 

It must be as true of yeast as of all other life, that there is a 
condition of growth more suitable to it than any other. Ascer- 
tain, therefore, what are the most suitable surroundings for healthy 
yeast life and reproduction, and then never depart from these 
conditions, whatever the pressure. The one great reason for this 
is, that science and observation both endorse the statement that, 
as soon as a medium becomes unhealthy for yeast, it becomes 
healthy for the growth of one or the other of the disease germs, 
and that these germs lie dormant when the conditions are 
.opposed to their activity, and even when they may live in these 
unsuitable conditions, their growth and reproduction is nothing 
worth noticing ; but when the conditions are favourable, they 
.are then set completely free and multiply very quickly. This is 
as true of lactic and butyric germs as it is of all kinds of yeast. 
Every form of life has its sphere and food. Neither moths, mush- 
rooms, nor flies will germinate in brine, or quicklime, and though 
they may pre-exist in some form, they must have a medium as a 
matrix in which to develop and reproduce their species. The 
.cheese affords a matrix for the cheese-mite, or it would remain 
undeveloped and devoid of a means to mature and reproduce 
itself. This is the great truth I would have you learn. No 
matter how low we descend, it still holds good through all forms 
.of microbic life the same. In just so much as these microbes 
differ in their nature, so much will they differ in the suitability 
x)f the medium of their sustenance and life. A smelt and a tad- 
pole will not thrive equally in the same surroundings, therefore 
ascertain the physical laws governing the healthy reproduction of 
yeast life, obey the rules that law lays down, and you will be 
.quite free from the effects of other foreign germs. 

Before yeast can obtain any food from flour, the flour must be 
made into a thin paste, as already shown ; yeast cannot assimi- 
late dry or solid food. There must also be a certain amount of 
heat. In a baker's ferment or sponge both these conditions are 




THE BAKERS' GUIDE, 



87 



present. The flour is stirred into warm water, which dissolves 
out the sugar and soluble albuminoids. The yeast commences 
to act upon these, and, with the aid of a natural principle, like 
human gastric juice, within itself, it proceeds to use the natural 
sugar in the flour, and to alter these soluble albuminoids and the 
starch into sweet substances or amides. These are its natural 
foods, which it assimilates from the sponge. It absorbs these 
substances into its own elements, and gives off carbonic acid gas 
and achohol. 

Note, — There is practically no alcohol formed in the earlier 
stages or until the free air or oxygen of the sponge or dough is 
exhausted, and by taking a rapid sponge in first turn, or dough- 
ing direct and turning the dough often, there will be plenty of 
free oxygen present and very little alcohol. You know the feel of 
-well-aerated, well-made dough. This making and turning, or 
41 heading up, saturates it with free oxygen. Alcohol is a poison 
to the yeast. The evolution of gas and alcohol is in proportion 
to the amount of nourishment it has been able to absorb. There 
is also a series of other changes going on during bread fermenta- 
tion. The heat and the moisture are also acting upon the in- 
soluble albuminoids of the flour, disuniting, changing, and de- 
grading. During the whole operation the yeast will, while re- 
taining its vigour, continue to seek out and digest the mineral 
And nitrogenous matters it needs or can get at. 



Beer Yeast is collected from a number of picked breweries 
in London and the provinces, the various brews thus collected 
being blended with a view to combining strength, uniformity, and 
security ; but uniformity of action has not been attained, as this 
yeast is prone to grow faint, and sometimes to entirely collapse 
in hot weather. 

Mode of Working. Put in a ferment with i of the total 
-water at 84 degs., a handful of flour and some other yeast food, 
allowing one pint of yeast to every 140 lbs. of flour to be made up. 
Let this ferment until fermentation begins to subside, and then 
strain it into the trough and add half of the total water at a heat 
sufficient to bring the added flour up to 86 degs. Stir to alight 
spongy sponge, and allow to ferment six more hours, and until it 
lias risen and subsided twice ; then add the remaining half of water 
at a heat sufficient to bring the heat of dough up to 86 degs., and 
3 £ lbs. of salt ; break the sponge and this added water up to- 
gether quite smooth, and then make the whole into dough, 
•which should rise for about two hours, and then be taken out of 
trough, scaled off, moulded and baked. 



Types of Yeast 




88 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



Brewers' compressed or dry Yeast is produced by 
evaporating the moisture of ordinary brewers' yeast, and com- 
pressing the residuum. It possesses the qualities of thick yeast, 
and is coming into greater favour every day, because the baker 
is handling a certain quantity of yeast in the dry, and a very 
uncertain quantity in the semi-liquid. Quantity to use : 6 ozs. to 
the bag of 140 lbs. Mode same as thick yeast. 

Compound Barm, Comp., Compo., and Patent is the 
same yeast under different names. It is a malt and hop yeast, 
and is essentially a baker's home-made brew. In a few large 
towns there are compound barm or patent yeast brewers who make 
it in quantities and retail it out to bakers who do not want the 
trouble, or do not know how to make it. It is this wholesale 
manufacture of comp. that has ruined it. Of course it could 
not be made, carted, and delivered as cheap as the baker could 
make it himself, with no charge upon it for labour; and to 
compensate for these extra expenses the yeast brewer has 
drawn very freely from the water tank. The mode of making 
these malt and hop yeasts does not vary much throughout 
the United Kingdom, the chief variation being in the 
different quantities of malt and hops used to a given quantity 
of water. 

Mode of Working. To make 140 lbs. flour with "Patent " 
" Compound Barm " yeast, use 3 pints, and proceed the same 
as for Brewers' yeast ; but owing to the limited number of yeast 
cells usually present, this yeast requires a longer time in the 
various stages to permit of growth and multiplication, sufficient 
to enable it to do the work required : About eight hours in the 
ferment, eight hours in sponge, and three hours in dough, with 
two pounds of salt to the 140 lbs. flour, to keep down the growth 
of acid producing germs which are sure to be present in these 
long process fermentations, as well as to add flavour in the room 
of the natural flavour of the flour, which has been consumed by 
the yeast. The guiding principle in working this yeast is — plenty 
of time and plenty of salt. 

How to Grow Malt and Hop Yeast* 

In writing directions how to grow yeast for bakers' use, we 
have been mindful that there are others who make bread besides 
bakers, and there will be found in this work some household re- 
cipes for yeast growing. We have also been mindful that bakers 
do not always reside in cities and work in bakeries, sometimes 
they go to sea in ships, or dwell among the mountains,' occasion- 
ally they march with armies, and in the explorers' company ; and 
in many other places and ways have to make shift with a different 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



89 



type of yeast to aerate their bread. It will, therefore, be useful 
to give with these directions a few examples of aerating agents 
that will ferment bread when yeast proper is not obtainable. For 
convenience, I will class them as yeasts. 

General Principles to be observed when Growing Yeasts* 

Never boil or scald the malt, because, like overdone meat, it 
will be hard to digest. Meat that has been much roasted or 
boiled is chemically changed, and resists the action of the diges- 
tive fluid. Boiled or cooked malt will not readily lend itself to 
assimilation with the other constituents of the brewing tub. 
It will require considerable digesting before doing much work, 
and the wort will be sluggish and dead ; — 150 to 170 deg. (Fahr.) 
is a good heat to mash malt, and quite sufficient to liberate or 
extract the principles required. 

Hops should be boiled, but not allowed to stew ; some bakers 
put them into the oven to stew for four or five hours. This is 
not wise ; it causes a strong, rank flavour , let them boil for five 
minutes briskly, and then let them cool down to about 150 deg. 
(Fahr.) before pouring upon the malt. 

Crushed malt is always to be preferred. Buy the best malt 
and hops ; money will be saved, because they will make a 
stronger soil in which to grow yeast, and the danger of imperfect 
work will be avoided. 

Be sparing in the use of water ; the more water you use when 
growing yeast, the more yeast will have to be used in making 
bread, and, if so, where is the economy of using water too 
freely ? 

Important. — See that all utensils are well scalded with boiling 
water before using. Stale germs will probably set in motion 
lactic or other disease ferments, and spoil the brewing. 

Patent Malt-and-Hop Store (or Gompo) Yeast. 

I. Quantities. — \ lb. hops; 5 lbs. malt; 6 gals, water; 1 
quart last store. Boil the hops with as much of the water as the 
vessel will allow of ; boil at a gallop for five minutes, and then 
allow it to cool down to 150 degs (Fahr.) by the thermometer ; 
then pour it on to the malt in a tub, occasionally give it a good stir 
up with a stick, and when cooled to 75 degs. (Fahr.) by the glass 
(no guesswork here,) add a quart of yeast from the last brewing, 
stir up and strain into a flat tub, large enough to allow for fer- 
menting. Let the wort ferment for thirty hours ; it will then be 
ready for use. One pint will ferment one bushel of flour. 

II. Quantities. — 10 gals, water ; \ lb. hops ; boil quickly for 
five minutes ; cool to 150 degs. (Fahr.), then mix with it 10 lbs. 
malt, stir well, and allow to remain in the mash two hours, then 



G 




9° 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



strain. If possible, when straining, fasten the sieve as high as 
convenient above the tub, say about a foot, this will aerate and 
cool the liquor as it falls ; when cooled to 75 degs. (Fahr.)puta 
i lb. pure compressed, stir up, let it ferment about thirty hours. 
One pint to the bushel. 

III. — Boil for a few minutes as many hops as you can hold in 
your hand in 6 quarts of water. Let them cool foi ten minutes, 
then pour the mixture upon 2 lbs. malt ; let them mash an hour. 
It will then be cool enough to receive $ pint brewer's yeast. 
Stir this in briskly, strain into a tub, and leave to ferment about 
twenty-four hours. 

Good yeast is made by using J oz. of hops, J oz. dried yeast, 
$ oz. salt, and $ lb. of crushed or ground malt to every quart of 
water. The principle of brewing this yeast is the same foi all 
quantities, namely, boil the hops in the watei for five minutes, 
let it cool to 160 degs. (Fahr.), stir in the malt, and let it stand 
covered up for three hours, then strain and squeeze all the 
liquor out, and let the liquoi cool quickly to 70 degs. (Fahr.). 
Mix in the yeast and the salt, and let it work for twenty-foui hours, 
it is then ready for use. You may use more watei than the 
quantity named, but then you will have to use more yeast, and with 
this further drawback, that, having a larger quantity of liquid, you 
will have a larger quantity of bacteria, simply because you have 
a larger space to collect them in. For example, assuming that 
most of these germs get into the yeast during the process of 
manufacture, it is reasonable to suppose that a surface of twelve 
inches square will catch more of them than a surface only half 
the size. 



Quantities. — 3 J lbs. malt ; 3 ozs. hops ; 2 ozs. salt ; 2 ozs. sugar ; 
4 gals, boiling water ; and 8 lbs. flour. Put the malt into a large 
tub to allow for working, and pour upon it 1 gal. water, as hot as it 
is possible for you to bear your hand in, or 150 degs. (Fahr.) by the 
glass, let this mash one and a half hours ; also pour upon the hops 
2 quarts boiling water, and let them mash. At the end of that time 
mix them together and strain ; then stir in another tub about 8 
lbs. flour, and a little warm water to mix it clear, then have an 
assistant with a stick to stir continually and rapidly, while you 
pour in from 10 to 12 quarts boiling water ; take turns about with 
the stirring for about five minutes, let cool to 170 degs., and then 
mix with the malt and hops. Leave this to ferment, exposed to the 
air twenty-four hours ; then stir into it 2 ozs. sugar, 2 ozs. salt, Jib. 
of flour, 1 oz. distiller's yeast, and place the tub uncovered in a 
sheltered place, where it will be comfortably warm. If in ten 
hours it is working freely, and full of life, leave it alone ; but if 



Flour Barm. 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



9* 



sluggish and dark-looking, dip your half-gallon measure down to 
the bottom, bring it up full, lift it about a foot above the tub, 
and pour it slowly back ; do it twice or thrice ; this will let some 
air into its lungs, and help it to breathe more freely. Let it fer- 
ment two days before using. According to the state of the 
weather it will be necessary to move the tub into a warm or cool 
place. You should endeavour to keep it at about 78 degs. 



Quantities. — 4 lbs. malt ; \ lb. hops ; 4 gals, boiling water ; 
p quarts last brewing ; 8 lbs. flour. Mash the malt in a large tub 
by pouring upon it 1 gal. water, 150 degs. (Fahr.). Pour upon 
the hops 2 quarts boiling water, and let them mash for about an 
hour or so ; then strain the hops ; stir in 8 lbs. of flour, and stir 
vigorously while 10 to 12 quarts of boiling water are poured 
into it to make a scald ; stir for a few minutes. When cooled to 
76 degs., stir into it 2 quarts old barm ; or, if you have not 
previously made this kind, and have no old flour barm, use 1 
quart of malt-and-hops yeast ; stir this up, and let it ferment about 
twenty to forty hours. It is recommended to scald the flour m 
another tub, and let cool to 150 degs. before adding malt and 
hops. 

Flour used in the place of malt.— Boil 2 ozs. hops in 2 
quarts of water a few minutes. Strain it, boiling, upon \ lb. flour. 
Stir up, and when as cool as new milk, put into it £ pint brewer's 
or malt-and-hops yeast ; stir, and allow to ferment thirty hours, 
and it will be ready for use. Bottle a pint to use in the next 
store, instead of the brewer's yeast. 

Yeast without Seed Yeast to start it- 

This is a suitable recipe for growing yeast without the aid of 
any added yeast to start it, and will form a foundation store from 
which a quart or so should be taken as soon as it is ready ; bottle 
and closely cork. 

Quantities. — \ lb. hops ; 2 ozs. sugar ; 10 quarts water, boiled 
for five minutes, cooled to 15c degs. (Fahr.). Stir in 5 lbs. malt; 
allow it to mash thirty minutes ; strain ; let it cool to, and keep 
it at, 80 degs. (Fahr.) as nearly as you can. In 60 hours it will 
be ready for bottling. Don't cork for 24 hours. 

Handy Stop-gap Yeasts 

When malt-and-hops and other yeasts are not obtainable ; suitable 
for the housewife, and others zvho use only a small quantity of 



Parisian Barm* 




92 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



I. — Boil \ lb. flour and 2 ozs. sugar in 4 quarts water ; let it 
cool to blood heat. Add \ gill of brewer's yeast, or 1 oz. dried, 
put into a vessel to ferment for two days, bottle and keep in a 
cool place. Keep a pint of this for the next brewing, and use in 
place of the brewer's yeast, if that is not obtainable. 

II. — Boil J lb. hops in 4 quarts water for five minutes. Strain, 
and let it cool to blood heat, nicely warm but not hot ; put into 
it 1 oz. salt, 1 lb. sugar, and 2 lbs. flour, mix well together and put 
in a pan to ferment for three days. Then stir into it 2 lbs. 
boiled and mashed potatoes, and let the mixture ferment another 
twenty-four hours, or more. This is an excellent yeast, and used 
as a flour barm without a ferment makes capital bread. To 
make up 1 peck of flour, put in a sponge with 1 oz. salt, 1 pint 
of this yeast, half of the flour and enough warm water to make 
it into a batter ; let this sponge ferment for ten hours ; then add 
2 ozs. more salt, powdered, and with the rest of the flour and a 
little warm water make it into a firm dough. (Don't use too 
much water and " wet the miller's eye.") Let this dough prove 
for 1 hour, then mould into loaves, which should be allowed to 
prove a short time before being put into the oven. 



All compressed yeasts should be kept in a close firm mass : 
crumbs should be slightly sprinkled with cold water and lightly 
worked into a lump. Keep dry and cold, and free from air. 
Like all life, when age overtakes it, decay soon sets in. Do not 
keep in a refrigerator with ice in summer, nor too near the fire in 
winter ; neither freeze nor scorch. In hot weather damp the 
dried yeasts, and pack closely in a pan or jar, tie up and bury 
in sand or earth ; brewer's and malt-and-hop yeasts put in 
bottles, cork, and serve ditto. 

Paper and canvas parcels, as soon as they arrive by rail or 
parcels post, should be dipped into cold water a second, and 
then put in a cold cellar ; when absolutely necessary to keep it 
some time, it is a very good plan to half fill a pan, cover with 
cold water, and then bury the pan up to the top in a cool corner 
of the garden ; put a board over the top. 

To Strengthen and Revive Old or Weak Yeast 

If you cannot by any means get better — mix 1 oz. of malt 
extract with a quart of water 70 deg. Fahr., and a quart, or \ lb., 
of yeast. Stir all together and let it stand for twelve hours, use 
then in the ordinary way, counting only the yeast in your mea- 
surement, and not the water. 



To Keep Yeast Fresh. 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



93 



To Cleanse Bitter Brewer's Teast 

Put it into a pan and pour on it some cold water, stir it gently 
and let it settle for a few hours. The yeast will sink to the 
bottom, and the water can be poured off, which will carry off 
most of the coarse flavour of the hops and colouring matter, etc 

Compressed, Distiller's and " Dried " Yeasts are the 

result of a special effort of modern skill and enterprise to make 
a yeast specially for bakers. And without doubt these yeasts 
are a most decided improvement upon all the other kinds 
hitherto used in bread-making, combining, as they do, vigour of 
work with certainty of action. The chief difference between dis- 
tiller's yeast and brewer's yeast consists in the fact that 
the yeast of the brewery is obtained when brewing malt liquors, — 
ale, beer, stout — and the yeast is necessarily coloured and 
flavoured by that of the beer from which it is taken, pale amber, 
light or dark brown, bitter, &c. ; the product of the distillery, 
on the other hand, is free from added colouring and flavouring 
matters at the stage when the yeast is formed and taken from it, the 
fermented wort being for distillation into spirit, and not for drink- 
ing, as in the case of the wort for beer. This is also the reason 
why distiller's compressed is much whiter than brewer's compressed. 

The distiller allows fermentation to proceed until the whole of 
the saccharine in the liquid is turned into alcohol, the carbonic 
acid also passing away. When fermentation has stopped, the 
wort is removed to the wash charger, and thence to the still — a 
copper boiler with closed head — to which is attached a copper 
pipe called the worm, descending through a large tub filled with 
cold water in constant circulation. Fire and steam applied to 
the still cause the contents to boil, the vapour arising therefrom 
passes through the worm, and is, consequently, condensed, 
issuing from the end of the worm as a liquid known in the distillery 
as " Low wines." This is redistilled, and it is here, if anywhere, 
that the colouring and flavouring matter is added ; but in the 
case of malt liquors these things — hops, quassia, burnt sugar, 
&c, — are put into the wort during the actual fermentation, and 
must, therefore, be more or less in or on the yeast 

Comparative Equivalent Strength of Yeasts. 

One pound of distiller's dried yeast will be equal to five pints 
of brewer's thick, and eight quarts of comp. (patent). Some of 
the liquid yeasts are so very liquid that it is difficult to form any 
estimate of their strength. The percentage of yeast-cells in them 
is very low indeed. Bakers were soon educated to appreciate 
the gain in purchasing a crop ready grown over the old mode of 
buying and planting a few seeds, and growing crops from them. 



Digitized by 



94 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



This is a beneficial change for the baker, and means reducing a 
sixteen hours' preparation to eight — a great advantage to a man 
who has to bear, through the whole time, the enormous strain 
that is attendant upon bread-making. 

, ABOUT FERMENTATION. 

FERMENTATION is a change, a splitting up of mattet 
with the formation of new subjects by living organisms 
called " ferments." The word fermentation refers alone 
to the action of these organisms. Fermentation is the 
effect ; these living organisms, called ferments, the cause. Ob- 
serve also t^iat there are many kinds of ferments, most of which 
would not be at all suitable for bread-making, Fermentation, 
with its dependence on microbic life, is a subject of far-reaching 
interest ; the better understanding of it will help doctors to cure 
diseases which now seem incurable. 

I will, in a sentence or two, describe with somewhat more of 
detail what usually meant by the term. 

Fermentation is the name given to a class of decomposition 
undergone by a number of organic bodies in the presence of 
certain organized bodies of extreme minuteness termed fer- 
ments. All the kinds of fermentation at present known depend 
upon the existence and growth of minute organisms — these are 
the ferments ; alcoholic fermentation is the change which sugar 
and other crystallisable substances undergo when subjected to 
the influences of a ferment such as yeast ; whereby the sugar, 
&c, is converted into alcohol and carbonic acid gas. 

There are also formed small quantities of succinic acid and 
glycerine ; the yeast also uses a fraction of the sugar and the 
crystallisable substances to build up its own structure. It is also 
said that the fermentation takes place at the moment when the 
cells of yeast cease to have power to freely consume the materials 
of their nutrition by the absorption of free oxygen or common 
air, and continue to live by utilizing matter containing oxygen, 
which, like sugar or such other unstable substances, break up and 
produce heat by their decomposition. The living organisms 
develop living force by taking it from the oxygen and transform* 
mg it, or from the sugar splitting it up and forming from it car* 
bonic acid, alcohol, and other bye-products. 

In most minds the words putrefaction and fermentation are 
regarded as different and distinct from each other, but that 
is not so. Putrefaction is merely a form of fermentation. 
The change which produces carbonic acid gas from saccharine 
matter is termed fermentation. The change which produces 
sulphur compounds, &c, in decaying animal bodies, such as 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



95 



eggs, is called putrefaction ; but the chemical operation of both 
is of the same kind, and consists of the resolution — the chang- 
ing of complex bodies into simpler forms by organisms setting 
up fermentation. Bacterium lactis is the ferment which makes 
lactic acid, Mycodermic Vini makes acetic acid, Bacillus Sub- 
tillus makes butyric acid, Bacterium Termo is the putre- 
factive ferment, &c, &c, and most of these fermentations are 
going on in well fermented dough, when it becomes over ripe 
and past maturity. The more the subject is investigated, 
whether as regards leavening, or any other process of fermenta- 
tion, the more clearly it will be established that the only true 
system of bread-making hinges on the principle of fermentation 
by means of pure sound yeast ; and the quantity of that yeast 
must be governed by the style of work in hand. 



HERE are several kinds of sugar, but only three which 



concern us or commerce generally, viz., cane sugar, 



(saccharose), grape sugar (glucose dextrose), and what 



* is called fruit sugar (Laevulose). Cane sugar occurs in 
a large number of plants, but commercially is only manufactured 
from sugar cane, sugar beet, sugar maple, and sorghum, one of 
the palm tree tribe. 

Sometimes it is said that sugar made from the sugar cane is 
sweeter than that made from the sugar beet, but this cannot be 
so. From necessity, cane sugar, from wherever obtained, is abso- 
lutely the same substance, and if prepared equally pure and as well 
refined, has the same sweetening power. It, like all the cane sugars, 
is composed of the elements of C (carbon), H (hydrogen), and O 
(oxygen). These are united in the following proportions : 
C 12 H 22 0 11 as its formula. Before passing to cane sugar, its 
manufacture and refining and testing, I will dismiss the grape 
sugars in a sentence or two. (They are so frequently dealt with 
in the articles upon bread-making in this book.) Cane sugar 
when heated in a solution with dilute acids, or when submitted 
to the action of yeast and other ferments, takes up the elements 
of water (H a O), and splits into two molecules of grape sugar, 
viz., dextrose, so named because it has a right-handed power for 
polarized light, and Laevulose, which is Laevo-rotatory. Both 
of these have the same formula, C 6 Hj 2 0 6 , but differ in their 
properties, doubtless owing to a different arrangement of the 
atoms or groups of ultimate particles of which the respective 
molecules consist. Starch also, when acted upon in the same 
manner, yields glucose, a grape sugar, and identical with dex- 
trose. These grape sugars are also called invert sugars because 



SUGAR. 





9 6 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



they invert the order of the rotatory action of the original 
cane sugar. (See polarization^) 

A short description of the manufacture of sugar will be useful 
knowledge in helping us to understand more about this impor- 
tant member of our raw material family. There are four pro- 
cesses in the preparation of the ordinary commercial sugar — 
extraction of the juice, clarification and defecation, refin- 
ing, and crystallization. The sugar exists in the cells 
in a state of solution in the fluid which constitutes the 
juice or sap of the plant; this juice is extracted by 
pressure, by mill or press. This crude juice contains, besides 
sugar, water, earthy insoluble matter, albumen, wax, soluble 
colouring matter, and soluble salts. To prevent fermentation, 
the defecation process follows as quickly as possible after the 
expression of the juice. This is by defecating the juice with 
slaked lime or mono-sulphite of lime made into a cream, and 
added until the acids, acetic and lactic, in the sugar have been 
neutralized, then heat is applied, and when the process is com- 
pleted (first by filtration and then by defecation) the juice is 
tapped off, and is then refined by allowing it to percolate through 
animal charcoal, which cleanses it from the colouring and other 
soluble organic matter. It is then evaporated by means of a 
vacuum pan, and caused to separate into crystals ; the mother 
liquor that is left is drained off. When large grains are wanted 
for the market in the form of white crystals, the mass is put into 
a revolving perforated basket and the centrifugal force due to 
rotation forces the loose syrup through perforations, while the 
large solid grains remain behind. 

The first running of syrup from the first crop of crystals is 
reboiled and sometimes refiltered through the charcoal, and more 
crystals are formed, and this is carried on through second and 
third or more runnings, until the last syrup is so poor in sugar 
that difficulty is found in getting it to crystallize any more, and 
this final residue is the treacle and syrup of commerce. 

This is a rough outline of a process (there are several modifi- 
cations) much more complicated than roller flour milling, and I 
have touched upon it chiefly for the purpose of pointing out that 
every succeeding formation after the first and second must be of a 
weaker and lower grade, and with the near approach to a certainty 
of there being some glucose in it, because after the length of time 
the operation has been in progress inversion will be caused by 
something, and whenever glucose is present the sugar is weaker 
in saccharine, and will also more easily decompose when being 
made up into goods, and the further also that these processes are 
carried on the more certainty there is of discolourizing by con- 
tact with vessels in which it is carried on. These lower grades 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



97 



are characterized by more dust or powder, or these and small 
uneven crystals mixed in, and the whole " blued " like you blue 
your Icing sugar, merely to add to its apparent whiteness. In 
using such sugar for fondant or boiled sugar goods is unreason, 
for the added mineral matter will have to be skimmed off as 
scum, and the glucose mislead by changing at a lower tempera- 
ture than the best sugar, but it must be observed that it is 
possible to buy highly saccharine sugars in a very impure con- 
dition. The char and the blood that are used to take out the 
colouring impurities also leave behind them some of their own 
compounds, and these have to be refined out as well, and some- 
times this is not done perfectly. When choosing sugar select an 
evenness of crystals (not large and small and dust) with the 
palest shadow of brown, not a blue tinge. 

Tests for purity and commercial value. For mineral 
matter and imperfect refinement, put 25 grams into a 100 c.c. 
graduated measure, shake occasionally till all the sugar is solved 
if well refined, colourless or but slightly cloudy — the imperfect, 
" yellow " brown, or nearly black, let remain undisturbed for 1 2 
hours for mineral matter to deposit itself, and then read off the 
percentage. Test for glucose, simple and reliable. See Dr. 
Barker-Smith's test in this book. 

Test for moisture. Weigh off 5 grams, place in a well dried 
platinum dish, or one that will not break — but first carefully 
weigh the dish — place in oven at 140 deg. Fahr., and leave to dry 
for 12 hours, then weigh again, the loss in weight calculate as 
water. 

Estimation of ash. Take the same quantity, moisten it all over 
with water, and then with pure sulphuric acid, heat this gently 
until frothing ceases, and then continue to burn to redness, take 
off gas or out of the heated chamber, and moisten the sugar 
a second time with sulphuric, and let it burn again until the ash 
is quite white, then cool down and carefully weigh. 

Confectioners' Caution. The sugars which were sold 25 
years ago as common whitish dull looking moist, and called 
''pieces " by dealers is that sugar to-day which we buy as dead 
looking castor, or powdered white sugars without a single sparkle 
in it. Beware of non-sparkling sugar. Science has whitened, but 
not enriched it. Like flour it is safer to buy coarse granulation 
rather than fine. Crystals are usually better than powder, though 
for some things, such as Icing, a fine powder is necessary. But 
powdered sugar should always be looked upon suspiciously; 
it is not capable of a high form of crystallization, and is mostly 
the re-refined refuse product of high-class sugars ; and therefore 
pulverized sugar is unsafe to buy for best goods. 




9 8 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



BUTTER AND FATS. 



Simple Tests for Purity. Weigh 10 grams, and put in a 
graduated test tube and melt by placing the tube in hot water, 
after a time the water and curd casein and the true butter 
separate into layers ; the water remains lowest The percentages 
of these can be read off in the tube. There should be not more 
than 10 per cent, water, nor exceed in volume more than i of 
the pieces put in. The curd should not be more than 5 per 
cent. 

If butter has been mixed with much other fat it will not froth, 
or only a very little. Place pure butter in a test tube or thin 
glass, and hold it over a gas jet, when it will froth : the more 
and easier the less water and salt there is in it. Place marga- 
rine in a test tube, and heat, it froths but little unless its butter 
percentage is high, but deposits its caseine (if milk is used) and 
added matter, etc., which form at the bottom as dross, and can 
be estimated. Animal and vegetable fats melt, and remain as 
clear oil. Rub margarine and fats violently in your hands, and 
smell. Place a piece of candle wick in fat, and a piece in sweet 
butter, then set them alight, the fat will smell more or less 
tallowy, and the butter, buttery. Try lard the same way, the 
coarser and staler the worse smell. 

Lard is sometimes adulterated with cotton seed oil. Put a 
piece into a porcelain dish, and make very hot over bunsen, and 
its smell will disclose its presence ; this test is useful for most 
fats, heat separates, and the odour is plain. 

Eggs. Spots are caused by laying in one position a long 
time, therefore unpack and repack if necessary. The value of 
an egg is determined by its weight and freshness, breed of the 
fowl, and whether pickled or not. Pickling impoverishes the 
albumen. To the baker, an extra egg to the pound represents 
nine pence worth to the 120. Weigh eggs for your mixtures, 
do not count them. A beaten egg can only aerate and lift its 
own weight of flour; any mixture containing more weight of 
flour than eggs must have other aerating agents added, or it will 
be heavy. 

Gelatine. Coarse or fine, or sheet, should be tested each 
in the same way. Melt it and make hot, and the nearer it 
approaches to glue or size in smell or taste, the worse it is : glue 
being the extreme boundary of badness, and isinglass the ex- 
treme boundary of goodness. Bad gelatine makes goods taste 
tainted. 

Chocolates for bakers should be pure and unsweetened, and 
melt like butter when put into heat without admixture of water. 




THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



99 



Cheap chocolates are mixed with lower grade cocoas, farina, 
sugar, etc., making goods coarse and of poor flavour. 

Dessicated Cocoanut. Buy it unsweetened. Sugar costs 
100 per cent, less, therefore add it yourself. 

Cream of Tartar (K HC 4 H 4 0 6 ) is a concrete saline, 
which separates from wines after full fermentation, encrusting 
sides of vessels with whitish grey and red crystals. The quality 
of it depends upon the amount of refinement it undergoes by 
filtration and crystallization. The crude crystal is purified, and 
the value of the product depends largely upon the amount of 
impurity taken out or left in. Like flour, sugar, cloth, and hun- 
dreds of other things, cream of tartar depends for its quality 
upon the amount of money and labour expended upon its puri- 
fying process. It dissolves very slowly, and therefore the gas 
evolved in the goods goes on until the goods in the oven are 
nearly baked. 

Tartaric Acid (H 2 C 4 H 4 0 6 ) is also another grape acid 
deposited from wine. It occurs in the form of acid tartrate of 
potash. It is very quickly dissolved when in presence of 
moisture. 

Citric Acid is separated mostly as an article of commerce from 
lemons. It is also found in many fruits, gooseberries, etc. It 
is a vegetable acid like tartaric. Citric is a very wholesome 
acid. 

Acetic Acid (C 2 H 3 0 2 H) is a constituent of many organic 
bodies, and is one of the results of the decomposition and 
oxidation of almost all organic substances. 

The acetification of fermented matter — matter which has 
undergone vinous fermentation, and wherein alcoholic fermenta- 
tion has occurred — is readily attained by an exposure to the air 
of the fermentations at a slightly elevated temperature. 

There are two potent factors at work upon these fermented 
matters to produce this acetification, namely, ist, an organism 
named mycoderma vini, which by its functions assists to produce 
this decomposition, and after assimilating some of the matter 
excretes acid ; and 2nd, also by the oxidation of the alcohol by 
the oxygen of the air. There is no doubt that in very sour 
bread both of these forces have been at work, and although 
there is no doubt that the various acetous, lactic, vinous, butyric, 
and mucic fermentations are largely due to the work of organ- 
isms, there is also no doubt that acetic acid can be produced 
solely by the oxidation of alcohol. 

On the one hand, it has been demonstrated that upon adding 
small quantities of ammonium phosphate to furnish N and 




IOO 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



alkaline and earthy phosphates, the atmospheric germs became 
fertile, and an alcoholic was converted into an acetic fermenta- 
tion, this showing it was the work of organisms ; and on the 
other hand, Buchen, Davy and Dobercines demonstrated that the 
bringing of oxygen into intimate contact with alcohol, by passing 
(among other experiments) whisky and water through ozonized 
air. In a few minutes it was converted into vinegar, and factories 
were opened for the purpose of making vinegar by this means. 

THE CARBONATES AND BICARB5 USED BY 
CONFECTIONERS. 

Bicarb Soda (2NaHCO d ) is produced by a mixture of 
common salt (sodium chloride, NaCl), and sulphuric acid 
(H a SOJ ; being heated together, the heat causes a decomposi- 
tion represented by this equation 

2HaCl+ H a S0 4 =Na 2 S0 4 + 2HCI. 
That is, you see, a mixture of salt, sulphuric, and hydrochloric, 
and is the caustic soda of commerce. To make this into whole- 
some bicarb for food use, the solid salt cake (sodium sulphate; 
is again treated. The HO is driven off, and the cake is mixed 
with coal slack and chalk or limestone (to form the carbon), and 
again heated ; the product again is then a carbonate, and after 
treatment with air then becomes wholesome bicarb soda. There 
is another process (but not so much in common use), by which 
carbonate of ammonia, common salt and carbonic acid are mixed 
and heated, these are decomposed and form the new product. 

Ammonia carbonate 2(NH 4 )2C0 3 C0 2 . It is a volatile irre- 
spirable gas. It possesses strong alkaline properties. It turns 
red litmus blue and turmeric paper brown. It is slightly 
inflammable, and stops the combustion of other bodies. It is 
composed of 2 volumes of N (nitrogen) and 6 of H (hydrogen) ; 
air being taken as unity, its specific gravity is 0*5893. Ammonia 
is to be met with in many organic compounds, beth vegetable 
and animal. There are two modes of making it, one during the 
preparation of animal charcoal (in the destructive distillation of 
bones for the char for sugar refiners), and another during the 
manufacture of coal gas. The gas liquor is run into a retort, 
some slaked lime is added, heat is applied, and ammonia distills 
over ; this is again redistilled, in nearly the same way as alcohol, 
until it is pure enough for food. In use by confectioners, 
there is a great difference in the mode of its decomposition — - 
other carbs require moisture, heat, and an acid to help to evolve 
gas. Ammonia is decomposed by heat, which disunites its 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



101 



chemical composition— the ammonia flies off, carbon dioxide 
gas is generated, and raises the goods. Carbonate of ammonia 
varies very much in its composition ; like many other prepara- 
tions it suffers from indifferent makers, varying in quality from 
30 to 50 per cent. You will, perhaps, have noticed that biscuits 
or small goods, in which it has been used, sometimes smell 
strongly of it when coming from the oven. This may happen 
from an overdose that has not been neutralized by the heat of 
the oven, but in some cases it occurs from the ammonia being 
inferior, and you should mention it to your wholesale druggist. 
Buy it powdered, it is much easier to use. 

Glycerin is of great value in cake making, because it does 
not dry. It will not evaporate until decomposed by calcination. 
It is one of the fatty acids, with an alcohol base. It is a pro- 
duct separated during soap making. The soda ash or other 
alkali is mixed with fat and water and boiled, and the fat alkali 
becomes mixed into an emulsion, called saponification, and the 
glycerin is separated from the fat in the water, and is recovered 
by treating the waste or spent lye-water and alkali that does not 
enter into the soap, but settles at the bottom when cooling. 
Beneficent science has found and preserved this wholesome food- 
stuff glycerin for man's use. 

Hydrochloric (see bicarb soda) is separated in the manu- 
facture of soda, ammonia in the manufacture of coal gas, and 
glycerin from soap. Wonderful is nature, and wonderful are the 
uses and power of science. 

THE ESSENTIAL OILS, LEMON, ETC. 

These are sometimes mixed with alcohol to keep them bright 
and clear. Sometimes with fatty oils, resins, and fish oils, to 
cheapen them. 

Tests. First feel, pure oils are rough and dry between the 
fingers ; impure oils are greasy ; pure essences, when a spot is 
dropped upon paper and put into oven, evaporate, scarcely 
leaving a stain upon the paper ; fatty oils will not evajw?-ate, 
they leave an oily deposit. This is also the case when dis- 
tilled. Put a little in a small glass retort over a bunsen, the 
essential oil distills over, impurities remain. Put 5.CC of the 
essence into a test tube, add i.cc of pure sulphuric acid, the 
higher the temperature in samples tested, the more impure the 
essence. Rape oil rises to a 100 F., olive oil, 68°. Try the 
essence and fix a standard for heat ; put 10. cc of the essence 
into a test tube, and drop a piece of Sodium (be careful with 
this, it explodes when in contact with water or air) the size of a 




102 



1HE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



small pill into it ; if it is impure, the Sodium will dissolve with 
effervescence ; if pure, it will not. If alcohol is in the essence, 
it is detected by putting into it a small piece of Calcium Chloride 
(NaCl 2 ), alcohol dissolves this, and it remains as a precipi- 
tate : to get percentage this test should be performed in a small 
graduated test tube, and the amount of precipitate read off. 

If fish oils are present, they can be detected by the develop- 
ment of a red colour when boiled in a caustic soda solution. 

Ginger is the root stock of a small plant. Its odour is due 
to an essential oil, its hot taste to a peculiar resin contained in 
it. It is frequently tampered with ; its essential ethereal oils, 
being abstracted by immersing in Alcohol, which absorbs ; this 
is taken away and the ginger redried and sent to market, the 
essence so obtained being the best for mineral waters ; it is 
clear, not cloudy. 

Analysts have a difficulty in proving that ginger has been half 
spent that way. Dr. Barker Smith's method in this book is a 
good Test for Strength, and also for the other essences. There 
are three sorts usually on the market, Cochin, African, and 
Jamaica ; Jamaica is strongest, but darkest. 

GAS ENGINES IN THE BAKERY. 

THE use and management of a gas engine is a necessary 
part of the knowledge of a progressive baker or con- 
fectioner ; a few words anent thereto will therefore be 
required in the Bakers' Guide. We will begin with the 
belting. The manager of an engine should understand the 
management of belts. What are belts ? Belts are means 
whereby power is transmitted from one point to another. There 
are several kinds of belting. First, leather; and some think 
there is nothing like leather. The sizes and thickness will de- 
pend upon the amount of power to be transmitted. Although 
power is carried by belting for considerable distances, it is* 
thought by those who know that it is not profitable to carry it 
by belting for more than twenty-five feet. This fact should be 
in huaixl when erecting bread-making machinery. Sometimes 
.ropes running in grooves are used instead of leather; some- 
times, when very heavy work is required, chain belting is used, 
running upon metal teeth — cogs. 

Mending or Joining Belts is usually by butting or lapping. 
To mend by butting, bring the two ends level together and lace 
with stout strips of leather. To lap is stronger than to butt, but 
there must be several inches more belting. The mode of lac- 
ing in either case is to punch a corresponding set of holes in 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



103 



each end. Three sets of two holes. Lace transversely, and 
securely fasten the ends upon the outside of belt. There 
is a simple and very convenient metal fastener now used in the 
place of lacing, resembling a large size boot protector. The 
ends of belt are brought together, and the fastener overlaps both 
ends, and is driven into the leather ; but the tendency is to 
break away the ends of belt, and then it will require lacing, 
These metal fasteners are suitable for light work — cake machines. 
&c. ; but two or three sack dough mixers should have laced 
belts. 

The Gas Engine is a machine worked by the energy derived 
from an explosion of a mixture of air and gas, taken in as 
follows : Ther§ is a cylinder in which are four holes ; one for 
letting the gas in, one for letting the air in, one for letting the 
results of the combustion out, and one to let a flame of light into 
£l small chamber so as to touch the mixture of air and gas, and 
explode them by lighting the gas that has come in. These holes 
are covered or uncovered by a slide which moves backwards and 
forwards, worked by an eccentric, as in the case of a steam engine, 
vr\i\i this difference : the slide moves to and fro once while the 
erank shaft makes two revolutions. In other words, the slide 
makes two strokes while the piston makes four. When you turn 
ihe wheel the piston moves forward, and a charge of air and gas 
is drawn in ; the piston moves back, compressing the mixture of air 
.and gas, and then the charge is fired by the light at port hole, and 
the piston is driven forward; by the revolution of the crank the 
piston returns and expels the waste products of combustion into 
the exhaust box. The energy- derived is at the third or working 
stroke. During the other three strokes means are found to carry 
*m the work of the engine by stored up energy not used in the 
first and second strokes. The fly-wheel is a conservator of 
energy, has usually a very heavy rim, and is large and heavy in 
-comparison to the other parts. Most know that it is easier to 
eatch and stop a light indiarubber air ball than a solid leather 
ericket ball, for the reason that the energy in a moving body is 
proportional to its weight. During the third stroke a large 
amount of energy is given to this fly-wheel, and the rapidly re- 
volving fly-wheel gives this energy out again during the next 
three strokes, and so on. 

The use of the governors is to regulate the amount of gas 
going in, upon the principle that a heavy ball swinging in a circle 
round your head by means of a string, the faster you swing the 
ball round the surer will the ball rise to the horizontal plane of 
your hand. If the engine is going very fast the two balls of the 
governor fly farther apart from each other, and in doing so work 




104 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



a lever which shuts off some of the supply of gas ; and then, 
when they drop down by the speed being reduced, the lever 
opens again and the gas supply is increased. 

H. P. plan : — P. equals pressure per square inch of cylinder, 
L., the length of stroke. A., the area of cylinder, N., the 
number of working strokes per minute. 

Friction. — No matter how tight your belt is, there will be 
slipping. The belt and the pulleys will not run at the same 
speed, and there will be friction ; but, unless quite compelled, do 
not put rosin on the belts, it will wear them out faster. Nor 
should water be used, it has a corroding action upon metals, and 
also impoverishes the leather of the belting. The best way to 
reduce the friction caused by slipping of the belt, is to reduce 
the strain of work, and when they stretch too much to take 
them up an inch or so tighter. Very tight belts in dough-making 
are dangerous, the resistance of the dough being unequal as it 
gets firmer, and, perchance, too much flour is put in, and it 
makes it very hard, or some solid substance falls in between the 
blades, then something would give way, and it is better that the 
belt should slip than break, or the shaft twist or engine pull up 
from its bed. There is a prepared and special lubricating jelly 
or paste, filled into caps, the caps being screwed down over a 
pinhole : the revolution and warmth draw the lubricator down on 
to the shafts and pulleys, and parts where friction occur. 
The best oil only should be used ; inferior oil will clog, and at 
too low a flash point, it is useless for quick running machinery. 
Boiled linseed oil is not the best to use, you seldom get it pure. 
Very good lubrication is made by mixing linseed oil and hogs' 
lard together. Beware of friction, give immediate attention to 
any noise, or any bearings that get hot. Friction is very des- 
tructive, therefore keep engine and machinery well oiled r 
and always clean. A little grit or dust getting into the 
more delicate bearings of the gas engine will create mischief y 
and will soon destroy its efficiency. For this reason the 
engine should always be enclosed in a separate room, or par- 
titioned off. The slide valve, or the ignition tube, whichever is 
the type, should be taken out, carefully cleaned every week, or 
the explosion will be spoiled ; but great care is necessary, the 
parts must be accurately adjusted again, or friction and bad work 
will result. The spindle of the tube must be worked into the 
proper place. If you have not been taught how to do this, send 
for a proper workman, and don't interfere with it yourself. 

The Exhaust. The exhaust pipe should be kept clear of 
wood or other inflammable matter, as it gets very hot when in 
continuous use. The pipe should not have many, or too acute, 




XHE BAKERS GUIDE. 



105 > 



angles ; angles interfere with its good work. The circulating pipe 
should slope up the whole way. The water tank should have a 
ball tap, and at a proper level a waste-pipe should be fitted to 
tank, so that, when in continuous use, and the water gets foul 
and hot, the water can dribble out of waste, and dribble in from 
ball tap. A gas engine gets very hot during continuous use, and 
a constant circulation of cold water round the cylinder is abso- 
lutely necessary, to prevent destruction or damage by the heat. 

To Slacken Speed. When only a little power is required, 
take off cap from governors, and turn off gas slightly. Don't 
waste gas, either by running and doing no work, or by leaving 
port hole alight when engine is stopped. When you buy a gas 
engine, buy one larger than you want. It is an unpleasant 
experience to have an engine slowing up and stopping when it 
receives too much work for its size. An increase of trade will 
mean, otherwise, the buying of a larger engine. 



COTTOLENE! 

NOTHING IN THE WORLD TO EQUAL COTTOLENE FOR 
" CREAMING UP." BUTTER NOT IN IT. 



Write for our NEW WORK on CAKE-MAKING. Price One Shilling, Post Free. 



COTTOLENE has the Largest Sales. 
COTTOLENE has the largest Number of Clients- 

Send for Sample Cake, Sample Tab, Price List, and Professor Jago's Report, 
i nn itiiiiiii u ii i iitiiii m iif m 
Exclusive Agents for the United Kingdom— 

BIGLAND, SONS & JEFFREYS, Liverpool. 

Manufacturers— 

The N.K. FAIRBANK Co., Chicago & N.Y. 



H 



Digitized by 



Google 



io6 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE; 



BAKER'S BOOK KEEPING. 



FORMS from which to ascertain Averages, Per- 
centages, Gross and Nett Profits, Amount 
earned by Labour, Waste, Misappropriation, 
&C. — In a bakery the first of these forms in the order 
of importance will be that dealing with flour ; and as weekly is 
convenient, that period is taken and averaged at cost per sack, 
exclusive of labour. 



FLOUR IN STOCK AND CONSUMED DURING 
THE WEEK. 



DATE 
WEEK 
ENDING 



Saturday 
ist 



NAME OR 

MARK 
OK FLOUR. 



STOCK 
LAST 
SATURDAY 



Whites 
Supers 
Households 
Hungarian 
Patents 
Seconds 
First Grade 

Bakers .., 
Odd Marks 
Meal ... 
ConesorRice 

Flour 



Sks. Bshs 
20 o 

25 2& 



ADDED NOW IN 
DURIRG I STOCK, 
THE WEEK SATURDAY 



Sks. Bshs. Sks. Bshs, 
9 2$ 



7 
19 
4 
7 
3 

6 
4 



2* 



QUANTITY 
CONSUMED 
DURING 
WEEK. 



Sks. Bshs, 
10 2^ 
8 
6 



O 2§ 



AT 

WHOLESALE 
PRICE 
PER 280 lbs. 





£ s. 


d. 


32/- 


16 16 


0 


34/- 


14 9 


0 


3 iy 3 


9 10 


7h 


40/- 


1 0 


0 


36/- 


5 8 


0 


29/- 


2 18 


O 


30/- 


6 0 


O 


32 6 


4 17 


6 


29/- 


1 9 


O 


25/- 


0 12 


6 



Total for the Week— Flour 
„ Yeast 
„ Yeast Food 
„ Salt ... 
Fuel ... 



39 o* 



The Cost per- Sack- 



-Flour 
Yeast 

Yeast Food 
Salt ... 
Fuel ... 



63 o 

I 3 
o 9 

0 3 
o 13 



£65 10 3 



004 



Z2£ 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 107 



FLOOR. IN STOCK AND CONSUMED DURING THE WEEK.— -Continued. 



DATE 
WBRK 
ENDING 


NAME OR 
MARK OF 
FLOUR. 


STOCK 
LAST 
SATURDAY 


ADDED 
DURING 
THE WBBK 


NOW IN 
STOCK, 
SATURDAY 


QUANTITY 
CONSUMED 
DURING 
WBBK. 




Bth 


Whites 
Supers 
Households 
Hungarian ... 
Patents 
Seconds 
First Grade 
Bakers ... 
Odd Marks 

Meal 

Cones 


Sks. Bshs. 
9 *i 
7 0 
19 2 

4 2* 

7 0 

3 0 

6 0 

4 0 

2 0 

2 2$ 


Sks. Bshs. 

5 0 
10 0 
10 0 

0 0 

0 0 

0 0 

0 0 
0 0 
0 0 
0 0 


Sks. Bshs. 

6 2} 
II 0 

7 2 

3 0 

4 0 
1 0 

3 0 
1 0 
0 0 
0 0 


Sks. Bshs. 
8 0 
6 0 
22 0 

1 2* 

3 0 

2 0 

3 0 
3 0 
0 0 
0 0 




Total 


48 2i 





Note. — Cones or rice flour used in dusting must be taken in and charged against the 
cost— as shown above— having been used in the production of the loaf. This method of 
taking flour stock will show the quantity and the kind, and by carrying out the price of each 
tort, adding up the whole and dividing by the number of sacks will give the cost per sack. 
In the second example is shown the method to be employed for carrying forward from week 
to week ; the quantity in stock is entered in the column under the heading of Now in stock ; 
and if any flour has been added to stock since the previous Saturday put it in the column 
under the heading Added during the week. Each sort must be entered in the line with the 
name of that flour ; you then strike the balance between what was and what is in stock, and 
in the quantity missing you have quantity consumed. Carry the totals now in the stock 
/column down under the head of Stock last Saturday \ and that will form the base to work 
from next Saturday. Having previously ascertained the profit per sack at the price you 
are getting, and the weekly expenditure for salaries, fuel, light, rent, rates, and taxes, you 
will see how much profit you have made during the week. 

To ensure accuracy in these weekly flour returns and averages, 
it is necessary that the flour stock taken on Saturday be absolute 
and not approximate ; to this end the baker must arrange that 
small odd parcels of flour in troughs or sacks be used up as far 
as convenient for Saturday's bread. All flour used by pastry- 
men, scaled and sent out, or otherwise, must be deducted from 
week's totals before averaging for cost per sack for bread ; and 
further, especially note a week's averages may be entirely upset 
by the non-delivery of a couple of bags of flour. In many places 
' no person has charge of the flour room ; the door is opened and 
the flour-carrier is left to put the flour in how the thinks best ; 
and if the place is fairly full, or he has brought a lot, unless 
6ome person takes account at and during the time of the delivery 
it is difficult to attempt it afterwards. Another particular note : 
the buyer of flour, for a large modern business, will usually know 
the quality of flour independent of the mark on the sack ; and 
frequently flour will be so bought and sent in that those who use 
it do not know its quality ; therefore a weekly form must be 
issued bearing instructions as to quantity and qualities to be 
blended for the different uses — rolls, Vienna large-bread, scaling 
up, etc. The storekeeper should also keep an accurate return 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



of the quantity of flour scaled and sold. Scaled or sold flour 
must be deducted from the flour used before an average of the 
quantity of bread per sack is struck. 

Name of Department, Office, or Factory. Date. 

bread order form. 



Please make and deliver to Bread-room or Shop, or No. 1 

Round, &°c. 



No. Required. 


Description. 


No. Made. 


No. Received* 


Total Number 

8-lb. White Loaves... 

Wholemeal 

Pence inclusive 


Plain Crummy ... 4 lb. 
»» ... a lb. 

Cottages „ 

Bricks— Notched „ 
Brunswicks ... „ 
Whitepans or Tins „ 
Wholemeal ... 

Milk „ 

French „ 

Belgian „ 

Sandwich ,, 

Collaw „ 

Twist at ad. 

Cobs „ ad. 

Cakes „ id. 

French Rolls ... „ id. 
Dinner „ ... „ Jd. 

Vienna „ 3d. 

Vienna „ ad. 

Vienna „ id. 

Rosettes „ id. 

Crescents „ id. 

Queen's Bread ... „ id. 
Ac, &c. 


Signed for Bakery. 


For Storekeeper 







Note. — It is urgent that this torm be accurately filled in, signed and taken into the 
office as soon after the day's bread is made as possible. The above form can be altered ot 
amplified to suit the trade : plenty of room between lines should be allowed to fill in the 
figures in the bakehouse ; every pennyworth of bread made should be put down, and at the 
end of the day, week, or month, taken with the flour stock for that time, should give the 
exact average per sack turned out. 

To facilitate the making up of this nightly bread order form 
for the bakehouse, each porter or carman taking out bread should 
fill in the number of each kind he requires opposite the name 
printed upon a slip corresponding with the articles printed upon 
the bread order form. The clerk, whose duty it is to make up 
the bread order, will copy these totals with the total ordered by 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



109 



(Shop, and add them together, which will be the quantity 
required. 

Bread Order for Bakery. — This form is drawn to con- 
nect the shop with the bakery, and also the bakery with the 
flour-room. The total number of each kind of bread required 
should be filled in opposite the name, and handed to the fore- 
man at the beginning of each day's work, and having entered 
the exact number made at the finish of the day's baking, sign 
for the number made, and return the order to the office. He 
should endeavour to make the number ordered within a few 
loaves, which he will be able to do if he has given the necessary 
attention to the instructions given at the technical class, and 
measures his water by the quart or gallon exactly, and not by 
guessing so much in a pail or tub. Have an exact measure of 
water, and ordinary care in dough-making will keep the quantity 
near enough. It is important that the number ordered and 
made should be closely watched, and serious differences more or 
less should be marked against the maker. Random making will 
not be allowable in a modern bakery. The bread order form 
when taken into the office should be used to check, first, the 
sales — if 1,000 are made, 1,000 loaves should be accounted for 
at the end of the day ; second, the totals be totalled once a week, 
and all the small bread reduced to loaves and added to large bread 
totals, and that will give the total bread made during the week. 

To find Average per Sack. — In the bread order form 
already given, an exact return of all bread made has been re- 
corded. To obtain the average number of 4-lb. loaves per sack 
of 280 lbs., reduce the number of 4 lb. loaves to the same 
number of parts, as the number of sacks emptied. If there have 
been 10 sacks emptied, and there are 1,000 4-lb. loaves, that 
will be 100 per sack. 

If any article, whether cakestuffs or breadstuffs, sold is strictly 
•for cash, a simple form will be sufficient to book in from, but 
care must be taken that every customer's name and address is 
entered in a book, kept at the bakery, so that in the event of a 
carter meeting with an accident, it will be possible to send 
another dn the round. A roundsman is also a very useful 
vaddition to the staff. He should be acquainted with all rounds. 
A daily register of every added name, and of every name taken 
off, should be an imperative rule, so that in case of the loss of a 
customer the why and wherefore may be ascertained, and the 
possibility of recovery be considered. 

To prevent — or hinder — the present wholesale filching of cus- 
tomers by roundsmen and canvassers, bind each by an agreement 
not to solicit the customers served by them for you, after leav- 




no 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



ing your employ ; such customers having been obtained by the 
use of your name and money, and for which they have been paid. 

Check Form for Raw Materials.— The manufacture and 
sale of cakestuffs is receiving at the hands Of present day com- 
petition the same treatment as that accorded to the making and 
selling of breadstuffs, and must be carefully conducted through 
every stage and detail of the process. Less waste of raw 
material and stale, a more modern adjustment of profits and an 
actual, not approximate, knowledge of the cost price of every 
article is urgent Bakehouse tradition, trade usage, present 
price, must be very carefully considered before being followed 5 
ordinarily they represent too much of the past, and not enough 
of the present ; at their best they do but resemble an old well- 
worn vehicle, obsolete and past service. The annexed form, if 
firmly adhered to, will show the cost of the raw material, how it 
has been used, and where it should have gone to. 

MATERIALS FORM. 

To be filled in, and when checked and initialed by the receiver to be 



returned to the office. 





FLOUR. 


BUTTER. 


MARGARINE. 


CASTOR. 


i 
$ 


CURRANTS. [ 


SODA. 


CREAM TARTAR. ( 

< 


milk. ; 


EGGS. 


SULTANAS. 


JAM. 


PEEL. 


g 

l\\ 

h Sjj 2 
^ 2 H 

5" 

< 


Scones. 


lbs. 

21 


lbs. 


lbs. 
3 


lbs. 

2k 


lbs. 


lbs. 


OZS. 

5 


ozs. 

IO 


pts. 
II 


No. 


lbs. 

2 

3 


lbs. 


lbs. 

4 


15/* 


Lunch 1 
Cakes j 


9 




3 








I 


i4 


4* 




M 


Pastry. 


3i 




3 










1 




2 

9 




I 




9/- 


6d > 
Wines f 


9 




3 


4 






4 


I 


2 








9/- 




























































































Total 
Used 
and 
Earned 


4*4 




12 


10 






61 




174 


4i 


S 


I 


ft 





Digitized by 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



IH 



This outline will explain . itself ? names of goods can be 
increased or altered to suit the work in hand. The totals at 
bottom of columns of material used will give the amount to be 
credited to the workmen. Paper, colouring, flavouring, etc., too 
small to be estimated on the article, must be added to the gros3 
cost of the day or week's produce, before striking a balance fqr 
profit. 

The storekeeper, or other qualified person, will credit pastry- 
cook with these totals in the stock book, and the office will 
enter the total of work done, for the purpose of ascertaining how 
much the workman has earned during the day or week. The 
cost of labour will be conveniently ascertained at the end of the 
day, week or month, by totalling produce column, and making 
an average. If at the end of day's work £5 worth is the 
total of goods turned out by man and youth, and their hire has 
cost 10/-, then ten per cent., or whatever is the actual percent- 
age, must be added to the cost of the raw material, and will then 
give gross cost of production. 

The store will open a debit and credit account of quantities 
with the head baker, pastrycook, confectioner, or chef, entering 
to him butter, sugar, eggs, etc., as required, and at the end of 
day, week, or month, the total of goods used — taken from 
materials form — with any balance of material he may have in 
hand, should make up the amount given out from store ; com- 
paring these totals with invoices will also control the storekeeper. 

Every item must be put down to the debit of the user — wafer 
paper, paper used in bands, bottoms, or wrappers, essences^ 
colouring, chemicals, and also small tools, cutlery, knives, 
spoons, moulds, etc., etc. The most stringent rules should be 
enforced in regard to this matter. The workman will not — has 
no right to — object ; if he is to receive liberal payment, he must 
take a more intelligent interest in the economy of his tools ancjl 
materials. " I don't care " will have no place in modern arrange- 
ments either side. Some workman may object to give his recipes 
by putting down all the items used, and properly so, if it is this 
knowledge which gives him his special value and is a revelation 
of what he regards as his private property ; though to withhold 
this information may be legitimate, it is not convenient, and must 
not be permitted ; this private property in recipes must either be 
bought by the firm and added to their stock of standard 
formulas, or the goods must not be made. It is not expedient 
to push goods that depend upon a perpetual continuance of 
employ for their out-turn, or that will nullify the rules of the 
firm. There should be given printed sets of standard formulas 
for all work under the control of the confidential clerk. It must 
not be expected that the workman will make up these forms, his 




112 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



time is worth more to the firm. A sharp lad, possibly one of 
those helping (the apprentice or improver) will, during the 
work, and under the supervision of his chief, count or weigh 
up the goods, as they are made, and with pencil write 
down by dictation the quantities of material in them. The 
amount of goods sent to packing room or shop must be 
checked by the receiver, who then becomes answerable for 
them (see form for salesman). These materials forms should be 
sent into the office and occasionally checked as to percentage, 
and any departure from standard, either in ingredient or yield, 
should be reported to the principal manager. If the sellers of 
small goods under the old regime had watched their stock of raw 
material, the yield of mixture and the time taken to make them, 
their idea of the great profit on smalls would have been different ; 
upon some of the goods the profits are much too small, and upon 
others as much too large. With some petits Jours and gateaux^ 
though representing 100 per cent, profit on the materials, the 
time occupied in finishing and decorating is so much longer in 
proportion to other goods, that when added to the cost of the 
material, the percentage of profit comes out even less than that 
on commoner cheaper articles. 

It will not be convenient to check the manufactured article from 
the chef or restaurant in a lump, because goods from these 
departments are sent up as required — a cup of chocolate, cutlet, 
soup, etc. Therefore all goods required from them should be 
ordered by printed slip, bone, tin, or other ticket, bearing the 
cash value of the goods wanted in sale shop, or sent out. The 
chef should not send out any goods without these vouchers, as 
they represent the amount or value of the work turned out, and 
they should be kept carefully by him, to compare with the totals 
of raw materials sent him, and will show the total work turned 
out also, say weekly. 

Sales. — Having made arrangements to provide for proper 
receiving and checking of stock, the class of goods to be made 
and their standard formulas, gross and nett profits, the debiting 
of the workmen with the materials, and crediting of same with 
the sale value of articles made, the estimates of the value of labour 
by the amount of work turned out, the mode and price of 
sale, etc., it is now necessary to trace the produce until it is sold, 
either by being entered in the ledger to the debit of a customer's 
account, or (and much better) the cash for it is through the 
medium of the paying in book safely entered to the credit of the 
firm's account in the banker's books. This tracing will be done 
by having a form to regulate shop and other sales, as per the 
following example, modifications of which to suit the different 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



CREDIT. 


0 »o 

^ 2 * 


m 

to 




STOCK 
SUSPENSE 
ACCOUNT. 


By Stock 

Allowance on Stale and 
Depreciated Stock ... 


DEBIT. 


lO 


10 

10 






Forward 


CREDIT. 


o o o o 
ii 2 2 2 2 

<0 CO >0 


sr 


m 

M 

m 


SALES 
ACCOUNT. 


By- 
Shop Cash Sales 

Accounts paid in as per Cash 
Books 

Paid in by Porters 

Credit Sales as per Day 
Book and Ledger 

Balance forward to Suspense 
Account 

Include here totals of all 
Cash received and Credit 
Sales. 


DEBIT. 


*^000 000«fO>0 o 
i^tninooo^otxtoc* o 
V^^o m m ro O 0 0 O t>. 






GOODS RECEIVf D 
IN SHOP OR SALESROOM 
TO-DAY. 


506 Loaves at 3d 

300 Pence Fancy Bread 

Flour Confectionery 

Sugar Confectionery 

Goods from Chefs Departmt. 

Mineral Waters 

Tea 2/4, Coffee 2/4, Milk 2/6 

Chocolate 3/4, Sugar 2/11 ... 

Mustard i/- f rep. i/-, bait od. 

Brought over Stock Suspense 
Account 

Note.— Include here all 
goods received, whether own 
or other Manufacture, taking 


I 



Digitized by 



H4 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



styles of business will adjust the details during the working :— A 
thing that it is necessary to do will itself suggest a way ; not the only % 
or the best way — but a way according to the foreknowledge or in~ 
stinct of the person devising it— and sufficient for the purpose. 

In a mixed trade there is a twofold hindrance to a daily checking 
of accounts, namely, stock-taking and " stale " and waste. The 
cost of labour involved in too frequent stock-taking of candies, 
biscuits, and confectionery, is considerable. The stale goods, 
though depreciated, will realize a part of their value a day or two 
hence, and this part must be accounted for at some time. 
Believing that a monthly stock-taking and settlement between 
departments will be more desirable in view of these difficulties, 
and that in most cases it will be quite as safe and undoubtedly 
cheaper, I have drawn this form, based upon a period of time, 
whether of one, two, three, or four weeks, to suit the style and 
extent of trade, or preference of managers, and which will fit in 
with the arranged time of balancing the workmen's output values. 

The working principle of this form consists in the consignment 
of all goods to be sold direct to the seller or sale department at 
the usual sale price, keeping a debit and credit account, with a 
periodic stock-taking and balancing up. The stock suspense 
account is opened for the purpose of carrying forward the 
amount due on unsold and accumulating stock, which amount 
should be balanced by the stock in hand at the time of 
stock-taking, except say a two-and-a-half per cent, allowance for 
deficit lost upon the sale of stale or depreciated goods. With 
this waste allowance must be taken the reductions granted to 
purchasers taking quantities ; but such reductions, when possible, 
should be taken off the sale price or workman's totals form, and 
not charged to sale shop, and, therefore, would not require to be 
taken off; also when goods are damaged in making, the price 
they are expected to realize, not the usual sale price, should be 
entered in the workmen's totals as the price to be obtained for 
them. This will put the loss where it ought to be — upon the 
maker of it, the workman, whose totals of work done will be 
that much lower. The manager or principal will not always see 
the goods made, and these totals will be most valuable to him at 
his daily, weekly, or monthly inspection of them in pointing out 
the useful from careless men, and will also be an incentive to 
the workman who knows he is to be judged by results. 

When the sale shop is divided in departments for the sale of 
the different goods, it will be quite convenient to have separate 
tills and separate accounts for cash, and obtain an accurate 
return of the profits on them ; but when the sale shop is not so 
divided, it will not be so convenient, and the keeping of 
separate tills need only be resorted to when it is necessary to 




THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



trace the source of a suspected leakage ; when it is desirable to 
do so, book to each its own peculiar goods, keep a separate till 
and open a debit to credit and suspense account for each as per 
form. This dividing into the different tills will be strange at 
first starting, but will become quite natural from use ; as I have 
said, a thing necessary to be done should be done and usually 
can be done. 

THE LENGTH OF TIME, AND OF THE DEGREE 
OF TEMPERATURE OF WORKING THE PRO- 
CESSES, AND OF THE OVEN. 

IT will be noticed in some places, I have put a very wide 
margin between the extremes of heat, 70 degs. to 90 degs* 
(Fahr.). The reason for this is in the great difficulty there 
is in ascertaining the heat of the bakehouse and flour 
where the heats have to be applied. Climatic changes have to 
be accounted for, and also the length of time before being put 
into oven. 

Further questions to be asked and answered would be : Where 
is the flour stored — in a loft over the bakehouse or in an out- 
house ? How many degrees of heat will the flour take from the 
warm water when it is mixed with it ? Is the bakehouse cold and 
airy, or close and warm ? Does the biscuit-baker follow the bread- 
baker and leave, as the natural result of his day's work, every- 
thing quite hot ? By this it will be seen that the worker to be 
safe, must learn to depend upon the experience gained in actual 
Work. He should also have a thermometer to test his liquor, like- 
wise a thermometer in the form of a round glass tube, or a metal 
cased one to put into the floor, sponge and dough. The actual 
state of the weather outside has only a partial effect when 
the baking operation of any sort goes on nearly the whole 
Tound of the clock. Sometimes the flour is stored in the 
bakehouse or over the oven, and is always warm and dry ; or, 
vice versa, it may be stored in an outhouse and be nearly frozen 
' — -in this case what an influence it will exert in determining 
temperature ! Many other things will come to your remem- 
brance if you think ; I merely mention these to show how 
unwise it would be to trust too much to figures in a book, if 
it attempts to establish hard and fast rules. The heat to be 
obtained and maintained after the flour is in should be 
governed by the length of time it has to stand. 

The time required for a ferment or sponge will be in pro- 
portion to the heat employed and quantity of yeast and yeast food 




n6 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



used ; for every increase in heat, or the quantity of yeast, will 
give a corresponding increase to the speed at which the sponge 
and ferment will work ; the quality of the flour also will make a 
difference — a poor flour that is deficient in gluten will work 
quickly, the yeast will soon exhaust it and stop working ; and 
vice versa, a strong, good flour will offer great resistance before 
degradation sufficient to make moist bread sets in ; and, of 
course, the strength and freshness of the yeast will materially 
alter the length of time required. A half-dead or faint yeast will 
drag on very slowly indeed. 

The time required for the dough to be ready will depend upon 
the amount of change of gas that has been developed in the earlier 
stages of ferment and sponge, and the quantity of salt used. If the 
sponge has been " worked " warm, and allowed to stand many 
hours, and a very strong gas thus generated, only sufficient time 
will be required to allow this gas to permeate the dough — say 
about half-an-hour ; but if made from thick or patent yeast, and 
seasoned with a full quantity of salt, then one or two hours will 
not be too much. The time allowed for the dough must also 
be governed by the sort of bread that is required, as we have 
shown elsewhere in the various recipes for bread-making. 

The time required for moulded rolls or loaves to rise will be 
governed by the firmness and life of the dough and loaves when 
moulded. If the dough is warm and full of life, 2-lb. and 4-lb. 
loaves will be ready in a few minutes, and small bread in about 
half-an-hour. A warm, moist atmosphere will cause dough to 
" prove " very quickly ; a dry, cold air has an opposite effect, 
and retards the rising. 

The time required for baking bread depends upon the size of 
the loaf, the heat of the oven, upon the lightness and ripeness 
of the dough ; and if only a small quantity of salt has been 
used, then the dough will be light and dry, and will bake very 
quickly, but if the gas has been developed slowly by a long process 
of fermentation, with only a small quantity of yeast to start it, 
and plenty of salt to " steady " it, then the flour, etc., being in 
an advanced stage of chemical transition or decomposition, will 
render the dough moist and bulky, and it will, as a consequence, 
require considerable baking. 

The preceding remarks may be summed up as follows : A 
brewer's yeast ferment should be worked at 80 degs., and, when 
healthy will take, from four to six hours. The sponge worked at 
80 degs. (in temperate weather) will " drop " first time in about 
four hours, the second " fall" will take from one to two hours, 
,and the dough, if made up at 80 degs., will take from one and a 
half to two hours. 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



117 



A patent (compo or store) yeast ferment should be worked at 
85 degs., and will take from six to nine hours ; the sponge at 
85 degs., from four to five hours ; the dough at 80 degs., from 
two to three hours. 

A French or German yeast ferment worked at 90 degs. will 
take two to three hours ; a sponge at 90 degs. (following after 
the ferment), two hours ; if the sponge is worked without a fer- 
ment it will take four to sixteen hours, dependent upon quantity 
of yeast and heat. The dough made from a sponge that has 
succeeded a ferment, will require only a few minutes before 
being "scaled off"; but if the dough is made from a sponge 
without a ferment, then it will require two hours, the moulded 
loaves ten minutes, and the rolls half an hour. If made from 
a ferment without a sponge it will require four to six hours, and 
and depend upon the quantity of yeast used. 

The time required for baking bread will vary, as we have said, 
according to the size of the loaf, the condition of fermentation 
when it was moulded, and the heat of the oven. Mr. Jago, in 
one of his lectures, said that 2-lb. loaves will bake in about 
forty-five minutes. This was taken exception to by some bakers 
present as not being long enough ; one said sixty minutes would 
be better ; and another said he had baked bread for twenty 
years, and never knew a batch to be thoroughly baked in less 
than one hour and a half. I have no hesitation, however, in 
saying that each of these statements was and is correct. The 
lecturer would probably have before him the result of a prac- 
tical test, in which he had demonstrated that a certain sort 
of loaf, put into the oven without touching — " set crusty," as the 
baker would say — the oven being also rather hot, would be well 
baked in forty-five minutes. 

The second baker, when he said sixty minutes, would probably 
have in his mind a large oven, well filled with cottage bread, that 
had been well fermented, and which, if not actually "set crumby," 
would be close together ; and in this case one hour would not 
be too much. The third disputant would represent one of those 
bakers whose shops are placed in the midst of a settled, working- 
class population, and whose customers' requirements are very 
regular ; and therefore, day by day, his oven, that most likely 
had been allowed to lie down, would be filled with the same 
quantity of batch bread, " crumby bricks," and cottages ; and 
then it would be perfectly accurate to say one hour and a half 
would be required to bake it. A little light here will be suffi- 
cient to show that the whole matter lies in a very small compass. 

The point at which cooking commences is reached as 
soon as the article is heated to 212 degs., and the speed at which 




n8 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



it will be cooked or baked will depend upon the amount of sur- 
face exposed to the heat. A baker s oven is usually heated up 
to 500 degs. when designed for baking a batch of bread ; if the 
loaves are placed in this oven, say an inch apart, then each loaf 
will have a certain number of cubic inches of heat all to itself, 
and will present to that heat a large amount of surface — the 
heat, in fact, striking it from the bottom, sides, and top at the 
same time, and consequently passing through it from several 
points at once ; therefore, it will bake very quickly, and the more 
quickly if light in texture, and the dough be made of weak flour, 
as the heat will then pass through with greater facility. But if 
the loaves should be put so as to touch each other, and fifty 
more of them be put into the oven, then, as a consequence, the 
heat will have less surface to act upon, and have at the same 
time more work to do by the addition of the fifty extra loaves, 
and therefore will take a longer time to do it in. These re- 
marks apply to ordinary crusty bread ; but when we come to 
crumby or batch bread, the difference is still more apparent, the 
heat of the oven being the same, and every square inch covered 
with closely-packed, and also more numerous, loaves. Then 
each loaf will present still less surface — in fact, will only have 
the top and bottom heat to depend upon, and until the whole 
batch becomes heated through and gives off a dense body of 
Steam — which is a most important help in baking this kind of 
bread — the process of cooking will be very slow indeed. 

By this explanation it will be seen that there is a considerable 
danger of misleading the amateur baker, if we direct him to the 
hands of the clock for a guide as to the time in which a batch of 
bread will be baked, instead of teaching him to rely upon his own 
-experience and judgment in these matters. The best and safest 
way to proceed, is to open the oven door a few minutes before the 
time in which you think the bread will be done ; and if it looks 
done, draw a loaf out and try it, by pressing (not too hard) upon 
the softest looking part ; if the pressure results in an indentation, 
then the bread is still doughy and underdone; but if upon pres- 
sure it springs back again into its former position, as a piece of 
ordinary sponge will do when relieved from pressure, then, if it is 
an ordinary-sized loaf, it will be done. 

In heating the oven to bake bread avoid extremes. A rash 
and scorching oven will destroy both appearance and material, 
A cold oven does not bake the bread, but stews and dries it, 
making the loaf unsightly, and unpleasant to the taste. Short 
of actual burning, a hot oven is always to be preferred to a 
cold one ; the bread will be whiter, and have more moisture 
in it, but it is not very digestible, if of necessity it has to be 
taken out of the oven before being thoroughly baked. The 




THE BAKERS GUIDE, 



ng 



heat that exhibits good workmanship, finish, and perfect baking, 
is what bakers call "a good sound heat." If there is no 
pyrometer, or heat-gauge, get one put in; it will save much 
anxiety and loss. If you have one already, 503 degs. (Fahr.), 
or if centigrade 250 degs., will be a good heat for a 7, 8, or 9 
bushel batch. If a smaller batch, say 4 bushels, then 400 
degs. will do ; but although these are helpful, they are liable to get 
out of order ; therefore we say again, use your own judgment. Get 
to know vour oven ; watch it carefully, and you will soon know, by 
many little signs, the heat of the oven. Sometimes a side-flue 
oven " clears " (looks white) straight up the middle, or on the 
opposite wall to the furnace, or the door-handle gets hot at a 
certain heat, etc. The size of the white patches will generally be 
a safe guide to the heat, for whiteness is a sign of heat when in 
connection with fire. A black, smoky-looking oven will mean 
coldness, unless the coals are very "dead." and smoke very 
much. If the oven is externally heated, it will be seldom 
necessary to let it " lay down," because if " continuously " used 
it will always be " sound," and the firing can be gauged by the 
pyrometer as the baking proceeds. 



5EVEN STAGES IN THE LIFE OF A LOAF 



•HE success of our Students in the various public com- 



petitions and of private firms who have adopted this 



process of making bread at one operation without a 



* prior ferment or sponge (called Blandy's modern pro- 
cess), warrant a place for it in this 4th edition of the Bakers' 
Guide. 

Two poi its at least are gained by the bakers using it : First, 
that without depreciation of what is termed quality in bread 
(apart from that of flour), there is greater simplicity in detail 
and a better, nicer loaf ; and second, that its adoption will lessen 
the worry, save space and plant, and make the working of an 
eight-hour day of easy accomplishment if it became a legalized fact 

Money is the chief object of a commercial business, it cannot 
be legitimate otherwise. Few poor men — if sane — will expend 
money and accept the responsibility of a baking business for the 
love of it only. Profit must be the idea and rightly so, though 
if business men ignore opportunities for the display of hununi- 
tarianism, and forget that the operative suffers from the usual ills 
that flesh is heir to, aching muscle and anxious mind, that he 
also needs money wherewith to purchase bread, bed\ boots and 



STRAIGHT DOUGH BREAD MAKING 
AND THE 



OF BREAD. 




Digitized by 



120 ' THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



books for himself and family, if he does ignore these facts 
though he is a wise business man, he is also inhumane, a pro 
moter of strikes and a begetter of profanity and crime. A 
display of human kindness acts as an antiseptic to strikes ; few 
operatives can be induced to strike if they have kind employers f 
and this system affords a cheap means of being kind, for it will 
relieve the severe strain consequent upon a continuance of those , 
ancient processes, of patent, compound, and Scotch flour barm , 
brewing, and ferments and sponges. It will also save the money 
outlay upon mashing, fermenting and sponging utensils, and the 
rooms or space required to use them in. The waiting, waste of 
time on backward sponges, and the uncertainties attending these 
old cumbrous methods, will be replaced by the simplicity and 
exactness of science. 

The explanation of the theory of this modern process, follows 
these examples in practice. The recipes will adapt themselves , 
to either manual or machine work, but the figures are calculated 
upon the use of machinery and other appliances, of a modern 
bakery. 

The first use of a dough mixer generally results in dis- 
appointment, and it is looked upon as a very doubtful gain. 
In many cases the operative, to whom its advent should be 
as water in a desert place — refreshing, and as welcome as a 
two shilling a week rise in salary, is the first to jib, grumble, 
and wish it away. Why is this ? Is it because it cannot do 
its work properly ; because good bread cannot result from its 
use ; because it " kills the dough " ? No, certainly not. The 
reason cannot be found in these complaints, for some of the 
best bread to be found on this terrestrial globe is daily being 
made by a machine. Shortly, the reason is to be found in the 
fact that, in nearly every case, the operative and master want 
to continue the same process of manufacture which has been 
the custom of the shop, and it is the effort to do so that pro- 
duces unsatisfactory results. The first effect of the introduction 
of machinery is an entire change in procedure of work. It 
would indeed be a doubtful gain if it did not. It is doubtful 
economy of labour to stir a sponge in a machine, slop it out 
into a trough, and, when ready, slop it back again into the 
machine ; and the saving of waste is still more doubtful. A 
big query can also be put against the saving of time; and 
if added to these doubtful gains there is holey, harsh, and 
ugly bread, resulting from heat absorbed in process of making y 
not compensated for by any increase at the start, it is not 
to be wondered at that master and man wish the machine safely 
back again in the engineers shop, and in many cases discon- 
tinue its use. 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



121 



The installation of bread-making machinery is an unalloyed 
blessing to all. It is hygienic, it is labour-saving to the man, and 
it does better work for the master ; and where the results do 
not please, an effort must be made by the worker to alter his 
mode until successful, being quite sure that if good bread is not 
turned out, it is the fault of the man, and not of the machine. 
The operation performed by the mixer is so simple that it can- 
not be its fault. 

A cold, backward dough usually results from the first use of a 
machine, the worker having omitted to allow for the loss of 
heat taken up by it into its own body. Its iron arms are not 
kept hot by circulating blood ; fleshly arms are. Men's arms 
and bodies give heat to the dough ; the arms and body of the 
machine takes heat from the dough ; and, therefore, in every 
case, machine-made dough should be worked warmer than 
when made manually, and especially so when doughs are made in 
it with lapses of time between each mixing ; for, in that case, 
the heat taken from the dough up into the machine is given 
out again to the surrounding atmosphere before the next dough 
is made; but if there are several doughs made continuously 
without any interval, the succeeding doughs should be worked 
at a lower temperature than the first dough. 

Observe, next, that sponges and doughs worked in a machine 
will take longer to mature by reason of being better made, and 
not because they are " felled " and " killed.'' Every atom of 
flour in a well-stirred sponge or dough is brought into contact 
with the yeast and moisture, and if not altered will show im- 
maturity. This is so whether the work is done by man or 
mixer. All practical men know that the more work put into a 
sponge or dough, the longer it will take to work through. To 
put a piece of dough upon the brake, and give it a good braking, 
is to delay its maturity an hour or two ; but the result is the 
difference between silk and sacking. It is much easier to stand 
and watch a machine make dough than to make it one's self ; 
and, therefore, in the majority of cases, doughs made by a 
machine receive double the making received by hand-made 
dough — sometimes more than is necessary to good work. Oh ! 
ye buyers of flour and sellers of bread, trail your memory back 
over the many years, with their myriad " catshead " scrap and 
"peas" containing doughs, and contemplate the saving that 
would have been effected had every atom of that unused flour 
taken up its share of water. Contemplate also the necessity of 
each atom of flour taking up its share of water, if a righteous 
law compels its fulfilment in exacting from you two pounds of 
bread in each loaf, and competition compels you to sell that two 
pounds of bread at a close price. 



i 




122 



• THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



It will probably be pointed out that the quantity of bread to 
be turned out will not permit the increase of time required by 
machine-made dough. In that case, it will be necessary to do 
exactly the same as, under the same circumstances, you would 
do in the ordinary way, namely, to force maturity by adding 
sugar, malt extract, super malt, diastase, or other yeast food, as 
* well as an increase of heat and a decrease of salt ; in fact, to 
use the same means as when by hand-making. Time is a potent 
factor. 

Let us come to Examples :— i. For a trade of sixty 
sacks per week — without odd parcels of special and small 
breads — with an installation of machinery, comprising two 
externally heated and preferably drawplate ovens with special 
steam reserve, two sack dough mixer, five H.P. gas engine, four 
two-and-half sack size dough trucks, a water tempering tank with 
hot and cold water, and a delivery adjustment ; a flour bin and 
sifter, and, if possible, weigher ; over-mixer, and if the ovens are 
not close to moulding boards, two nests of trays on trolleys, or 
' two travelling racks ; two to three dozen loaf carrying boards ; 
four ten-gallon ferment tubs; and four-and-a-half men at 
salaries — one at 35/- per week ; two 30/- each ; one at 25/-, and 
one at 12/6, being £6/12/6 a week, or 2/2 J per sack. If peel 
ovens are used, five-and-a-half men will be required, and if there 
is no tempering tank with hot and cold water, and no sifter, 
then six men will not be too many. 

Mode of Working. The half-man — meaning half time of 
a man — will be required to be in the bakehouse when the others 
have gone, and his duty will be — eight hours before the time of 
the other men commencing work — to put in two ferments with 
1 J lbs. pure best yeast, 7 lbs. flour, 2 ozs. sugar, and 7 gallons 
water at 84 degs. ; two hours afterwards he will light the ignition 
tube, and having previously got flour ready in bin, proceed to 
make dough with one of the ferments and 2 1 gallons of water at 
temperature — query — this will fluctuate. With the flour at 65 
degs., and bakehouse and mixer at 70 degs., take the 21 gallons 
up at 100 degs. ; 5 lbs. salt, \ lb. of one of the bread improvers, 
and four bags of flour less the 7 lbs. in ferment, but the quan- 
tity of flour must also fluctuate to suit the sort used and the 
firmness of the dough required. Set the engine at work — it 
should be alight ten minutes before required, not more — and 
make dough two minutes each action, four times reversed, that 
will be eight minutes total; turn out, and make the other 
ferment up in the same way, but keeping it 5 degs. colder to 
allow for the hour longer it has to lay. The first dough should 
be made so as to be quite four hours in trough before men 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



123 



come to work. When the two doughs are made, take out the 
clinkers in furnace, and stoke up with coke. After the previous* 
day's baking is done, the furnaces should be filled up with any 
rubbish that requires burning, and the dampers half closed. 
When furnaces are stoked, and the place left clean and tidy, 
put in two more ferments the same as before. This man can 
then go home until seven o'clock in the morning, when he will 
probably be useful in cleaning up until ferment time again. 
Give the doughs plenty of trough room. 

There will be these two doughs quite ready when the four 
nien come in, two of whom will proceed at once to light gas 
engine, and make up the two ferments into dough, and put in the 
remaining ferment or ferments as required ; the other two men 
will throw out (table), commence scaling the dough, the others 
joining them as quickly as possible after dough is made, and 
getting two ovens full as soon as possible. These two doughs 
will fill the two ovens twice. Then half-hour for breakfast ; and 
throw out the next dough. The drawplate should not be 
pulled out until all the bread is moulded, which operation 
should be quick work. When moulded, have half the moulded 
loaves each side, pull the plate out, shut down the door, brush 
dust off plate, and two men each side will fill it in from two to 
three minutes ; while filling let the water dribble into cup for 
X>ven ; push plate in quickly, and bake for forty-five minutes. 
The Pyrometer should register 240 to 250°. The filling, baking, 
and emptying, will take about an hour, and the first four batches 
should be out in four and a-half hours. When the drawplate 
.and this installation are used, one sack an hour, allowing for 
two meal times, should be the rule for four men who are quite 
fresh and have had no heavy work, or two and a-half sacks a day 
to each man. The heat of doughs following the first can be 
easily adjusted — slower or faster to suit. 

2. If a fuller, freer loaf is desired, add to each ferment 
28 lbs. more flour, and 1 lb. instead of ii lbs. yeast; 5i lbs. 
*alt, and 5 degs. colder in dough ; adjust the time the doughs 
Jay to meet the requirements of style desired. This will have 
rnore life and spring in it, and tops should be put on earlier, 
both to suit strength of flour and the tightness of dough. 

3. Straight doughs, £ lb. yeast, 280 lbs. flour, 3J lbs. salt, 
140 lbs. water at 90°F., and 10 lbs. of scalded flour ; or better 
if there are many batches, 14 lbs. dough of the last dough 
worked up into the next, make dough straight up. Let dough 
£tand 9 hours, mould and bake. 

4. 1 lb. yeast, 1 lb. malt extract, 3} lbs. salt, 280 lbs. flour, 
J42i lbs. water at 95°F. ; prove dough 6 hours. 

5. 2 J lbs. yeast, 1 lb. malt extract, 2 J lbs. salt, 145 lbs. 




124 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



water, 280 lbs. flour; heat of water 100 to no°F. ; dough to 
prove 3 hours ; mould and bake. 

The examples as to time are near enough to fit all bake- 
houses, but the capable workman, in a trial of two, will be able 
to fit his time to his work to a few minutes. 

Sponge stirring is wasteful of material, and uses 
up time and energy, and therefore should be discarded, it 
savours too much of those days of yore, when it was the custom 
to buy cheap flour, and spend unlimited time upon it to make 
it look good in the loaf ; when the shape of the loaf and wash 
on the outside were considered of more importance than the 
colour and flavour of the inside. Modern buyers of bread have 
not been slow to support the more modern and progressive 
mode of baking bread to eat, and not to look at ; and those 
businesses which have spent an extra shilling in flour, and a 
few pence in diastase, and cared little for the look of the loaf/ 
have mostly received the lion's share of support. 

The shapes of bread which require much more time in 
moulding and shaping, such as plaits, extra long loaves, etc., 
should be discouraged. They take twice the time to mould 
than the plainer sorts — coburg, cottage and square — and require 
more room in oven and care in baking, and thus cost 100 % 
extra for labour, or two men instead of one. If you cannot get 
an extra farthing for them, don't make them, leave them to the 
baker that likes to serve faddish buyers, and accommodate them 
with a month's credit as well. It is in some of these seemingly 
simple points that certain of the old shops are losing ground, 
and giving place in the trade to new firms, whose system is more 
simple, and what they save in this way they give to the public 
in improved flour ; and the public are not blind, especially those 
who are prepared to pay. People know the value of ready 
money now-a-days. Made by the modern process with machinery 
this is how the cost works out on the lines stated : — 

A patent — worth, say j£i 6 o 

And a country 1 2 o 

Or, one whites and one household town flour will make fine eating 
bread in the way described — that is, per 280 lbs. £1 4 o 

Labour 23 

Fuel 4 



Salt 



1 



Yeast and yeast food 



10 



Add to this a halfpenny for delivery 



Total ... 



£1 7 6 
3 10 



£1 11 4-- 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



125 



92 4-lbs. at 5d. = £1 18s. 4d. ; gross profit, 7s. per sack. This 
is ample. (See standard price for bread in this book.) 

The theory of quick fermentations and straight 
doughs. To make this simple and easy to understand, I will 
explain what are the uses of ferments and sponges. If you are 
a reader, and I hope you are, for if not I do not think that 
there is any hope for you. General reading clothes the mind 
of man, gives to the mental image the shades and colourings 
of the finished picture, and fills up the interstices of its frame- 
work, and warp and woof with the thinkings and knowings 
which make up its homogenity. If you are such a reader, 
you will have read some of the many notices which have 
appeared about the ancient mode of bread-making — the 
pulverized grain of our remote ancestors, the leavened bread 
of the Hebrews, the fermented bread of the Greeks and 
Romans, and it must be plain to you that the ferment and 
aponge of to-day (or may I say of yesterday, for they are now going 
to their burial in the same tomb with leaven) is but an evolution 
in the growth of the knowledge about yeast, how it functions, 
reproduces, has its being, and dies. The abolition of these 
ferments and sponges will be but carrying on that evolution of 
the growth of the biological and botanical knowledge of the sub- 
ject. For what are the uses of ferments and sponges. The 
only use of a ferment is the provision of a soil in which to grow 
more yeast In the early days of the advent of yeast, it was so 
very much mixed with liquid that experience proved that 
ordinary quantities of this liquid contained insufficient power 
to aerate and lift the 280 lbs. of flour, and after many trials, 
that by mixing a given quantity with some warm water, boiled 
potatoes and flour, or with scalded flour and a mash of malt, 
End letting these mixtures stand some hours, more power was 
obtained; and a stage further to mix some of this previously 
fermented mixture with more flour, and form it into a sponge 
gave more power still. This result, which was obtained by con- 
stant practice, was not understood in its whys and wherefores, 
the theory of the practice was unknown, and by some is still 
unknown, and they must read what is said in the previous pages of 
this book about yeast. Here is a digest of it. Yeast is a living 
organism, food suitable to its healthy growth is found in flour 
or malt mash ; when placed in liquid solution of this suitable food 
at a suitable temperature it breeds very fast, it doubles and doubles 
and doubles its numbers in rapid progressive fecundity. It con- 
tains within itself a digestive principle called Zymase, which acts 
precisely in the same way as the ptyalin and pepsin of the human 
mouth and stomach, the diastase of malt and the cerealin in 
bran. These are digestive principles called enzymes. Yeast, 




126 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



with the aid of this zymase, digests the food it obtains from 
the flour, uses some of it (very little) for the purposes of build* 
ing up its own structure, and some of it for respiratory oxygen ; 
and then having used and changed its food, yeast give9 off f 
respires, excretes, as waste, a gas called carbon dioxide and 
alcohol. Naturally it follows that one cell, like one man, can 
only do the work of one cell, and live the life of one cell. And 
light bread is not the result of a ferment or a sponge, but of a 
sufficient number of yeast cells to do the work. Nor is the 
counting of them a difficult matter, it is as easy as to say one 
horse will draw a ton, and if I have a io-ton load I shall want 
10 horses for it. We require 960 c.c. — by measure— of this 
gas to aerate every pound of flour in the batch, and if it is a 
one-sack batch we shall require 300,000 cells of yeast to aerate 
this batch with gas, and it will take then quite 6 hours' time to 
do it. In that time the first 300,000 will have quadrupled, and 
more — that is to say, it will take a million and more cells of 
yeast to raise one sack of flour in a given time, and, therefore f 
there is no question of ferment, sponge, or any other process, 
but simply a question of the quantity of yeast that is used. To 
go back to that one horse and one ton, suppose you have only 
one horse and have 10 tons of stuff to move one mile, what 
do you do ? why, move a ton at a time, and of course, occupy 
the time of 10 journeys instead of one. If you use 
Scotch flour, Parisian or compound barms, you have got a one- 
horse show, and you must give this one horse plenty of time in 
which to do the work, and the few yeast cells in these barms 
will do it— they will breed enough other cells to do the 
work if you give them the necessary time in which to do it ) 
you may say if this is so, why bother about it, why not go on as 
we are ? but wait a bit before you say it, for I reply, and with- 
out reservation, that // there were no other changes going on 
besides those affected by yeast, then 100 cells, given the time to 
multiply, will do as good work and as safely as £ 00,000 put in 
altogether, but there are conditions of change going on with 
which the yeast has little or nothing to do. 

There are the hydrolysing agents, the enzymes, and dias- 
tasis at work. There are the putryfactive and the acid-making 
agents at work, for most if not all of these are present, especially 
in the more common sorts of flour. With the aid of the water 
these enzymes are breaking down and changing the albuminoids, 
and the acid-making germs are present of a certainty in every 
dough, and it is only the addition of large doses of salt (read 
the uses of salt) in long processes which permits bread being 
even eatable, for all the beautiful aromatic and sugary flavouf 
have either been destroyed or evaporated. 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



127 



Do not say that long processes are necessary for certain 
yeasts, for that also is a mistake. Yeasts, like men, though of 
different sizes, strength, and degrees of health, all function alike, 
that is, they all digest their food alike. 

The cell of yeast that is grown in a good wort for comp. and 
patent, or for a beer or for a spirit, is absolutely alike in its 
function of living and working, and in either case the size as 
well as the health and strength will depend upon the skill and 
care of the grower, farmer, brewer, call him what you like, and 
if he is a skilful gardener, then he knows the suitable soil for 
the sort of seed he plants. 

There are weak, strong, and large and small cells grown in all 
the modes of making — yeast is yeast, and will do the work of 
yeast. And this answers the statement of some that yeast 
imparts flavour to bread. How can that be said of one yeast 
more than another, or of any? Yeast gas — C0 2 — does not taste, 
the alcohol in bread does not, cannot taste, because there is 
not enough of it, and if they did impart taste to bread, to make 
these is characteristic of all yeasts and the same with the work 
of its zymase. All yeasts are the same in construction, living, 
eating and working, and therefore the governing principles of 
straight off-hand dough bread making are those dictated by 
facts revealed to us by investigators who have given patient 
thought to this subject of yeast, and it is pressed upon the 
trade for trial because it will prevent the bad bread that is a 
reproach to bakers. It will save time, it will therefore save 
money. 

It was this kind of bread that has won the prizes in three 
consecutive exhibitions in open competition with the oldest 
and most experienced bakers. 

Yeast is the agent ; the more you use of it the more quickly 
will your bread be ready for the oven, and the longer you let 
the dough work the finer the texture and volume of the loaf. 

THE SEVEN PHASES OF CHANGE IN THE LIFE 
OF A LOAF OF BREAD. 

IF you have read the previous pages about yeast and straight- 
made doughs, you will have gathered that life is present, 
and the law of natural growth is at work. The life of a 
loaf of bread will be seen to be based upon the same 
principle as the growth, and change in the life of human beings. 
If you mix 14 lbs. of flour, J lb. yeast, 7 lbs. water, no degrs. 
{Fahr.), and 2 ozs. salt together into a dough, and watch its 
passing phases in the evolution of its life, you will see first, say 




128 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



in five m'nutes, that there are signs of life — it is moving, 
take a piece and bake it, the bread will be close. It will have 
only a few vesicles in it, which shows that the yeast has only 
begun to work (assimilate its food), the vesicles or holes will be 
small bladders filled with gas and gluten expansion. That is the 
infancy. Let this dough stand another half hour, still watching 
it, and this infant life develops into the second stage —childhood. 
There is more 1 fe and movement, more vesicles ; another half 
hour and its youth is reached ; put a piece into the oven and it 
bursts and breaks, and when baked it will be found full of gaps 
and holes, and much lighter. Up to this stage the dough has felt 
tough and leathery, but it now begins to get spongy and soft to 
the touch. Let it lay another hour and bake a p : ece. and if you 
have been careful to allow of free expansion after handling, it 
will burst and break still more than the last piece ; but how- 
ever you use the dough, the baked bread will be more full of 
vesicles, and much lighter. The dough will be more elastic and 
more resisting. This is the manhood stage of the dough. In 
another hour examine the dough, its touch is soft and mellow, 
the resistence of its fibre is less, bake a piece, and as in the 
manhood stage, give the piece time to expand again after 
handling, and the baked bread will have a much finer vesicu- 
tion, the bread will break up easier in the mouth. It has 
reached the maturity stage. It has passed over the table of the 
mountain, and is on the descent into the valley on the other side. 
Examine the remaining dough, it begins to collapse when you 
grasp it, resistence is vanishing, bake a piece, it does not spring 
and jump as it did in youth and manhood, it does not move 
with the steady strength of maturity, its strength is declining. 
This is the age of decline and old age; in two more hours 
examine the dough, it is rotten to the touch, bake it, and it is 
nearly inert in the oven ; this is the age of senile decay, cor- 
ruption is in rapid progress, let the remaining piece be exposed 
to a moist atmosphere (throw it on to the potato, or any other, 
patch outside your door), then nature will get back her own, for 
the molecular constitution will break up, the elements will be set 
at liberty ready to build up new life again in plant or animal. 

It will not matter in the least whether the dough is made high 
or low in temperature, much or little yeast is used, sponge or no 
sponge, these changes will occur, the only difference will be in 
the quickness of arriving at each stage. 

This analogy is natural and correct. Examine the develop- 
ment in the life of human beings around, and you find that 
some at 20 years of age have the development of others at 30, 
that some at 45 look as old men of 60, while some at 60 look 
fresh, blithe, vigorous, and in their prime. The difference is 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



129 



that some have been made on the quick process principle and 
some on the slow, but both will have to pass or have passed 
through these adamantine governing principles of growth and 
development. Some people exert more energy — mental or 
physical — in one year than others do in three years, and conse- 
quently are ahead in development, though only the same age 
in years. 

To particularize with Theoretical Science in detail 

after this generalizing, and explain stage by stage the changes 
which take place in bread-making processes. The Birth of the 
loaf is the putting together of the raw materials. The loaf is 
begotten and begins to live ; the yeast, with the help of the 
water, soluble matter and sugar present, makes its first meal, 
and begins work in earnest, and the infancy stage is reached, 
and the age of the birth of glucose (invert sugar C 6 H ig O g ) and 
carbon dioxide (C Og) ; the dough is alive and growing, but very 
crude. The yeast continuing its work changes more of the 
starch into this glucose sugar, and then eats, absorbs it into its 
own structure, and having digested it, excretes, as the waste from 
the meal, more C0 2 . This is the childhood stage — growing, 
green, unripe. This is the age of the development of C 6 H 12 0 6 
and CO g . The yeast is now breeding and multiplying very fast 
and is attacking and changing a much larger quantity of the 
fctarch, its enzyme, digestive fluid, is also assuming a quantity 
sufficient to make itself felt upon the glutenous part of the flour, 
breaking some of it up into less complex compounds. This is 
the youth of the dough, strong, vigorous, resisting, growing. It 
is the age of the birth of the change of the proteid matter, the 
wholesale changing of the carbo-hydrates, the production of 
maltose (C^H^C^), and the birth of alcohol (C 2 H g HO). At 
this stage there is actively at work upon the constituents of the 
dough, yeast, enzymes (the digesters), disease germs, the solving 
power of water and the reaction of each upon the other, resulting 
in the breaking up of one compound and the formation of 
another. This is the manhood stage in the growth of the loaf. 
It is the age of the beginning of the change of proteid into 
peptone, the rapid formation of alcohol, the fructification of 
bacterium lactis, and the beginning of the end of sugar. 

This stage is ripe stage, the healthy stage, but it is not fully 
ripe and fully mature, it has reached the top of the hill of growth, 
and if baked now, will be beautifully nice ; but it may have a 
hole or two, it may spring out of shape, for it is full of life and 
strength. This is the bread of health. Let it stand and decay 
£f you want perfect shape, for the next stage is maturity^ and is 




TffE BAKERS GUIDE. 



on the very edge of the brow of the hill on the going down side. 
It is the age of the end of sugar and the beginning of the tasting 
presence of acid. Another stage down the hill, and old age 
succeeds it. This is the age of the fructification of mycodermo 
aceti — the oxidation of the alcohol and the tissue unit* 
followed quickly by the senile decay stage, the age of the 
fructification of bacillis subtilus, the breaking up and changing 
of molecular constitution, and the beginning of nature getting 
back the elements which she had lent to make up the raw 
materials. 

These changes take place in every kind of process-made 
dough, the one with a cycle which will be complete in 4 hours 
for manhood, 12 hours for decay, made with 2 \ lbs. yeast and 
heat no degs. (Fahr.). A cycle in 6 hours and 18, with \\ lbs. 
yeast and 96 degs. (Fahr.) ; a cycle in 8 hours and 24, with 1 lb. 
yeast, 86 degs. (Fahr.); a cycle in 12 hours and 36, with 6 ozs. 
yeast and 70 degs. (Fahr.). The beginning of each cycle is birth, 
the end death and the age of the reign of heat, water, air, and 
bacteria. All the cycles pass through the same stages — some 
faster, some slower, and by the same evolution of the natural law 
governing all organic life. 

The Use of Salt in Bread-Making 

is another important lesson for the baker to learn. Salt in 
bread-making is as useful as a rudder to a vessel. A right 
knowledge of the use Of salt will enable you to guide fermenta- 
tion, as well as to alter the flavour of bread. Quite 60 per cent, 
of the bread made has either too little or too much salt in it. 
Up to 6 ozs. per bushel there will be no flavour of salt, and the 
sugar, or any other flavour in the bread, will be unconcealed. From 
7 ozs. to 8 ozs. there is a neutrality, no flavour of sugar or salt, 
and the bread is rather insipid. From 10 ozs. to 12 ozs. to the 
bushel gives the flavour of the salt. The hardness or softness of 
the water used will also regulate the quantity. In Scotland, with 
very soft water and strong flour, long fermentation, and also 
using soft flour, 5 lbs. per sack. Each of these quantities has a 
marked difference in effect upon the fermentation. The question 
of the quantity of salt is important to guide fermentation and to 
give flavour. In a quick-working fermentation, and where the 
flavour of the bread is wanted to be the result of saccharine left 
in the dough, don't give more than 6 ozs. per bushel. In a long 
process, where extreme ripeness is wanted, 12 ozs. will not be 
too much. The natural effect of salt upon yeast is to check its 
growth, and therefore delay the working. Salt also preserves the 
tissue of the flour for a longer time before it loses its character 
as a mechanical mixture and becomes a chemical combination. 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



13* 



When we speak of long and short processes in relation to the 
action of differing quantities of the amount of salt required, we 
must, however, caution the reader to have in constant remem- 
brance the fact that the amount of the ultimate change in the 
constituents of the dough will entirely depend upon the quantity 
of yeast and the quantity of heat employed in either long or short 
processes and also in the mode of manipulation. 

If you refer to Blandy's modern processes, you will see that 
a maximum amount of change is caused in a minimum of time by 
the use of a maximum of yeast and heat^ but that the quantity of 
salt is normally the quantity used in the old-time long, slow 
processes. The reason for this is in the fact that 2, 3, 4, and 
5 lbs. of yeast has been used to accomplish in 2, 4, or 5 hours 
the same amount of change that the use of 6 to 12 ozs. of the 
older processes required from 12 to 20 hours to effect; for the 
different quantities of salt required by the differing modes of 
manipulation, you are asked to refer to various formulae given in 
this edition. 

The Flavour of bread is not the result of the type or 
quantity of yeast, or of the kind of flour used. Different flavours 
in bread result from different degrees of heat, of fermentation, 
the length of time the yeast is allowed in which to alter the 
flour, and assimilate the products of the change, the different 
percentages of albuminoid matter in the flour, combined with 
the length of time such albuminoid matter is subject to hydration 
by water and degradation by the action of diastasis; by the 
different quantities of salt employed in its making, and by the 
different heats in baking chamber to which it is subjected. 

There are two broad divisions of types of flavour in bread, 
one caused by excessive use of salt, and length of fermentation 
with a small quantity of yeast ; and the other by the excessive 
heat and rapidity of the fermentation, excessive heat of the 
baking chamber, and the large quantity of yeast. 

u Crumbliness " is caused by over-ripeness, vigorous fer- 
mentation, excessive heat, or length of time in working, insuffi- 
ciency of baking, and insufficiency of salt — these are the chief 
contributory causes. The kind of flour used has not much to do 
with it, and the other factors must all be present to obtain it. 
It occurs in this way. A plentiful quantity of vigorous yeast, 
with the stimulation of heat and plenty of food, — perhaps from 
added sugar, potatoes, or yeast foods — has been allowed plenty 
of time in which to attack the starch, and change large 
quantities of it into other and simpler compounds ; diastasis and 
hydrolysis have also been at work, and the result is a wholesale 
decomposition of the constituents of the flour, separating them 




132 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



into parts having no affinity with each other ; and these being 
isolated, and albumen being practically absent, there is nothing to 
connect them ; and the heat of fermentation commencing, and the 
heat of oven completing the evaporation of moisture — not all of 
it of course, or the atoms would fall apart like sand— and the 
absorption of some more of the moisture by the atmosphere as it 
gets cold and stale, produces what the baker calls crumby bread. 
Buy and eat of this bread, oh, ye suffering dyspeptics, for it is 
already digested, and a very small percentage of acid is present : 
for it is the halfway-house, at the end of Sweet Lane, and the 
beginning of Sour Street. 



Harsh Flint-Crusted Bread; on the other hand, is caused 
by the reverse of this ; the gluten undegraded, diastasis and 
hydrolysis have had no time or chance to work. The yeast, 
either deficient in quantity, health, or lack of time in working, 
has not helped the work of decomposition. The gluten, like 
thin sheets of gelatine — merely stretches and dries — and when 
cold, gives to the eater and handler a gum and hand-cutting 
crust, from which, all bakers should devoutly pray to be 
delivered. 

Dry Bread. Well, both of these are very dry breads; and 
dry bread, according to the degree of dryness and character, 
oscillates like a pendulum always between these two— more of 
one and less of the other ; less of one and more of the other. 

Sour Bread, when due to fermentation, is caused by over 
ripeness and not by uncleanness of either men or utensils, nor does 
it result from the use of bad materials. Extremes of temperature 
do not cause sourness ; any system of fermentation, and any 
degree of heat, will cause it, if length of time is allowed sufficient 
for the purpose. Sour bread is caused by over fermentation, the 
result of the dough being allowed to work too long in the bread 
that is sour. Sour bread is caused by bad and ignorant work- 
manship, and by the exigencies of a commercial business ; it 
being sometimes difficult to do that which wisdom prompts and 
which a scientific knowledge of the phenomena of fermentation 
points out at the time should be done. The operation by which 
sourness is called into existence is as follows : Yeast, by a 
peculiar property within itself — a ferment termed zymase—has 
the power when brought into contact with flour, of converting a 
portion of the starch into glucose and maltose, thus effecting a 
chemical change, and producing a new chemical compound. 
Having changed some of the starch into these gummy 
saccharine matters, it next proceeds to separate them in its 
digestive apparatus into three elements — carbon, hydrogen and 




THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



i33 



oxygen — breathing out as excreta during the process gas called 
carbonic acid (carbon dioxide), and alcohol. At certain stages 
and under fixed principles a fermentation is set up by the 
organisms producing putrefaction. There is further going on 
within the sponge and dough the action of diastasis, the 
enzymes, and also, in the " order of nature " a development of 
decay in the yeast, and the usual accompaniment of decay, viz. : 
the work of microbes producing acids and putrefaction. These, 
in most cases, are simply symptoms and evidence of the senile 
decay. 

There is a continuous onward change going on ; and having 
united these great nature's fprces, they will go on with their 
work; and not only will acid producing germs do their work, 
but putrefactive as well, until every atom in that sponge and 
dough is resolved into its ultimate elements and becomes again 
the gas, the acid, and the phosphate of the air and the field. 
Each of these changes is brought about by the action of some 
germ, but time does it. It is not more correct to say that 
they get in from the outside then to say that they are developed 
from inside, and only wait to be set free by processes of 
fermentation to begin to operate after their kind. • And although 
it is doubtless true to say that certain acid producing germs 
produce the acid which sours our bread, it will also be correct 
to say, that tliey themselves have to be caused, vitalized, born, before 
they can do it. You cannot exclude nature's almighty incubator, 
the breath of life itself, viz. : oxygen ; and where oxygen is there 
will be life. 



The primary cause of ropy bread is the presence of a microbic 
ferment within the dough, and is no doubt a development of the 
butyric acid ferment — Bacillus subtilis. This is the organism 
which produces a very uneatable kind of sour bread. And as in 
the case of ordinary sour bread, it must have a matrix to 
germinate in ; old lined troughs, with cracks, worn corners, slimy, 
unwashed utensils, and a cold, slow fermentation, with a nearly 
lifeless yeast, will afford plenty of scope for this microbe in 
which to do his dirty work. Ropy bread, like sour bread, has 
a definite cause, which may be defined as insufficient aeration, 
and this insufficient aeration is caused by the lifeless character, or 
small quantity, of the yeast, combined with too cold fermentation, 
which does not give off enough gas to aerate the dough, and con- 
sequently, when this dead, cold, putrefying, mucilaginous mass 
is left a long time to rise, the other germs are at work, and when 
put into the oven, a crust is formed before the heat can properly 
drive out the moisture, and therefore the centre of the loaf does 



Ropiness, 




*34 



THE BAKERS 1 GUIDE. 



not dry or cook, and presents a magnificent opportunity and 
bed for the growth of this microbe. This kind of disease gets 
worse and worse every hour after the bread is drawn out of the 
oven. It will not be until about six to twelve hours have 
elapsed that the putrefactive odour and taste begin to make 
themselves apparent. As I have already pointed out in the case 
: of sour bread, all the conditions of ropy bread must be present 
before it will be possible to obtain it. There must not only be 
the lifeless yeast and the dirty trough, but there must be also a 
fairly strong flour to make a mucilage, and a long cold process. 

Ripeness of Dough. 

Ripe, overripe, unripe, are all intermingling terms. A dough 
that would be overripe for 2-lb. loaves is only ripe for rolls ; or one 
that would be just ripe enough for very crusty bread, baked in a 
hot oven, would be overripe for very crummy bread ; and if this 
crummy bread happened to be put into a cool oven, it would 
probably develop a bad flavour. Therefore heat of oven and 
size of loaf are very important items to consider during the 
day's baking. Heat decomposes acids, and the acid of a ripe loaf 
is increased or decreased accordingly by different temperatures of 
oven, and the crust will always be sweeter than the crumb of a 
ripe loaf for that reason. 

The Causes of Holes in Bread. 

Holes in bread are caused by the action of heat upon the un- 
degraded pieces of gluten, upon small patches of imprisoned 
gaseous vapour, heat causing expansion in both cases. The 
undegraded gluten is the result of insufficient fermentation, and 
the imprisoned gas the result of pressure from which the dough 
has not recovered before going into the oven. 

All bread will have mor£ or less holes, and these will vary in 
size as well as in number according to the mode employed in the 
making. Holes in bread are the result, in the great majority of 
cases, of careless workmanship, sometimes from a backward, 
unripe dough. 

Doughs made from different grades of flour, by different modes 
of working the fermentation, or from faulty flour and yeast, will 
have different degrees of physical strength, of the tissue of the 
flour, or the vigour of the yeast. When this is so, they will 
require different handling during the process of making up, light 
or heavy as the case may be. 

The chief place in the process where the moulder increases or 
diminishes the number and size of the holes, and where his skill 
comes in most conspicuously is at the oven, or where the loaf 
receives its final moulding. 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



135 



If the loaf is to be taken from you and put into the oven at 
once, mould it with as few turns and as lightly as possible, and also 
leave the spring in it. If the loaf has to stand and prove before 
going into the oven, mould it clear and firm, but still leave some 
spring in it. Never mould and grind the loaf in moulding till its 
spring is gone, and its tissue is destroyed, and it is soft and dead, 
if you do, then there will be holes, and rough moulding has 
caused them. We seldom see holes in very sour bread, and sour 
bread is the result of too much working, and therefore the more 
holes and the larger the holes, if there are many of them (a large 
hole, or two or three holes, may be caused by moulding), will 
show insufficient fermentation. The expansion of unevenly 
distributed gas and undegraded gluten is seen to be the cause ; 
also, when a part of the loaf next the wall of oven (the crusty 
side) is cut, it will be seen to have more and larger holes than 
the part not so much exposed, showing that heat has caused the 
expansion. One or two large holes in centre show that the 
tails of the closings are too large, too dry, and too hard, and 
could not expand as evenly or as easily as the other part of the 
loaf. This sort of hole is also caused by the heavy bash fixing 
the head on. When there are several holes distributed over the 
loaf, it has not had time enough in which to recover the 
handling ; but an experienced, careful ovensman can tell by the 
feel if the loaf is free enough, and can arrange accordingly. If 
he knows his work, he must know as soon as he handles the 
loaf whether it is at liberty and ready or bound up. If it is 
bound up and has any life in it of either gas or gluten it must 
burst out somewhere, and usually it is towards the top, because 
the heat can get full play upon it, the sides being more or less 
protected by the other loaves. Roughly classified, there are 
three kinds of holes : ist, caused by insufficient change in dough ; 
2nd, by being put into the oven with too much spring in it ; 3rd, 
clumsy, rough moulding. 



SEVERAL TYPE5 OF BREAD AND HOW TO MAKE 



1WILL now give a few processes for making a batch of 
bread with any one of the well-known standard brands of 
dried yeast, which recipes will cover the ground from the 
lowest or weakest type of home-made bread fermentation 
up to the highest or excessive fermentation for well-piled bread. 
These recipes are in use in Ireland and Scotland as well as 
England ; — 



THEM. 




J3 6 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



EXAMPLES. 



I. Farmhouse or " Home-made " Bread- 

280 lbs. good white flour; 1} lbs. yeast; 14 lbs. potatoes ; 
2 \ lbs. salt ; 56 quarts water ; £ lb. sugar. Set a ferment — at 
84 to 90 degs. (Fahr.) according to the weather — with the 
yeast, potatoes (boiled and mashed), 6 lbs. flour, and about 
20 quarts water ; it will work from two to four hours. 
Directly this ferment is ready, strain it into the trough, with the 
remainder of the water and the salt and sugar (the water must be 
warm enough to make the dough about 80 to 90 degs. when all 
the flour is in it), and make up very lightly into a light firm 
dough. Give this dough three hours in the trough, and then throw 
it out, scale off 2 lbs. 3 oz. for the 2 lb. loaf, hand up the scaled 
pieces of dough with plenty of dust, and let it prove very much ; 
when it is full proof, mould it up lightly (dry with dust) with a 
very small top, turn the bottom upside down before you put 
the top on, so that when it is in the oven it will break open 
roughly ; as soon as it is moulded put on the top, mark it with a 
stamp and put at once into the oven. Of course any sort of 
oven will do, but to be proper, it should be put into an externally 
heated oven with an iron plate for a bottom. The oven should 
have plenty of top heat and very little bottom. 

II Silken Piled Well-fermented Bread. 

Two bags of flour (280 lbs.), which should be about half soft 
roller " whites " or " supers," and half good strong flour ; mix 
them well together in the trough, put the pin-board in, and make 
a bay large enough to stir a sponge with a third of the flour ; be 
sure and press down the flour all round the back of the board to 
keep the liquor from escaping. Boil and mash 12 lbs. potatoes, 
mix them with 35 quarts of water hot enough to bring the sponge 
to 84 degs. (Fahr.) when the flour is in. Strain these 35 
quarts of water and the potatoes in the bay, carefully and 
thoroughly dissolve £ lb. of yeast into it, and \ lb. of salt. Stir 
into a stiff batter sponge, just firm enough to enable you to put 
your hands under it and flap it over. Do this several times 
to make it tough, dust it a little, put some labour into it — either 
with sponge stirrer or arms, only do it well — and then leave 
it to ferment until it rises, breaks and falls, which will be in 
about eight hours. As soon as it begins to subside pour 
into it 25 quarts of water — 95 degs. (Fahr.)— and 3} lbs. salt ; 
mix all together and make into a nice clear dough with some 
spring in it. To get this spring and toughness, put plenty of 
labour into it, cut it back, turn over, and knead well ; let it prove 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



137 



two hours, and then,, if ripe enough, throw out, scale off, and 
hand up firmly into boxes. Give these pieces fifteen minutes in 
the boxes, and if they are free and lively, mould into oven if for 
" packed " crumby bread ; but if for crusty, mould and prove them 
in boxes before putting them into oven. Note. — In this example 
there should be enough salt to check and season the excessive 
fermentation, a good tough sponge to give the yeast plenty of 
work, and good glutinous flour, because it is the flour that makes 
the silken pile, not the workmanship. 

I£L Light Crispi Crusty* Cottage Bread. 

For 280 lbs. fine white flour, put in a ferment with \ lb. malt 
extract, 2 lbs. flour, \ lb. yeast, and 20 quarts water at 86 
degs. (Fahr.); let this ferment be in the tub until it subsides, then 
strain into the trough with the pin-board in. Add 20 quarts 
more water at 84 to 90 degs. (Fahr.), and with about 56 lbs. of 
flour stir a batter "flying sponge"; let this "come up " once, 
which will be in about two hours. Then dissolve in 16 quarts 
warm water 2 lbs. salt ; stir this into sponge, and make a dry 
firm dough, which will be ready to come out of the trough in 
half-an-hour, and will usually prove quick enough to require 
following up — if the bakehouse be warm — as fast as the smartest 
of bakers can work. This dough should be baked in a sharp oven, 
and if light and well proved, 2 lb. loaves will, as a rule, bake in 
forty-five minutes from the time the oven door is shut. Note 



letting it lie about after the sponge is stirred, every stage 
should be watched and followed up quickly, and then you will 
have handsome bread bf a delicious flavour — that is, if the flour 
is good. And further, if you have a large staff of helpers and 
plenty of oven room, this is a very desirable mode for pushing 
through a few score bushels nightly, without any waste of 
time. 



To make several kinds from one batch : 1 lb. yeast ; 280 lbs. 
flour; 56 quarts water; 3^ lbs. salt; ± lb. sugar; put in a sponge 
with 40 quarts water at 90 degs. (Fahr.), according to weather; put 
the pin-board into one enaof the trough, to form a division large 
enough to hold this ; having well fastened the board with flour, 
strain the liquor into it, add the yeast carefully dissolved, the 
sugar, and about a bushel of the flour. Stir into a batter sponge, 
and leave to ferment six to seven hours, or until it subsides, then 
dissolve 3$ lbs. salt in 16 quarts water, 96 degs. (Fahr.), mix up 
with the sponge. If you want a few French rolls, dip from this 




must be taken with this dough by 



IV. Suitable for Small Bakers. 




*3« 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



sponge into fine flour and make rather weak, or if a few tight 
dough, or small fancy, make tight. If you make only a few 
brown loaves, this sponge will be but a little thicker than a fer- 
ment, and will make good brown bread if dipped into good meal. 
Vienna : to make nice, rub a little butter into fine Hungarian 
flour, dip enough of this thin sponge into it to make the quantity 
you require. The remaining portion of sponge should be made 
up and left to prove for half-an-hour, just time to get a cup of 
tea and a snack, then begin to weigh off and mould all that are 
to be baked with the batch. The few twists and rolls should be 
made up, and be baked after the batch bread comes out, because 
they must have a hot oven. Batch tea (" tough ") cakes and all 
very small rolls baked upon tins must also be baked afterwards in 
warm oven. Of course, to make six or eight different sorts and 
sizes of bread off one ferment, and bake them all off before 
deterioration, will mean smartness and judgment ; but there are 
scores of small bakers who have to do this, and they frequently 
make bread this way that would compare favourably with that 
made in the larger shops. If the rolls, &c.^ are baked off first, 
the doughs for them should be made as quickly as possible, 
covered up and kept warm. In moulding always get up the 
small bread first. In filling the oven put in the largest and 
closely packed bread first, these will take more time to bake. 
Twists, small rolls, &c, should be proved with steam. If you 
have no proving cupboard, put a pail of boiling water into the 
trough, fit sticks to the same, and put the rolls over the 
water. 

V. Good Housekeeper's and Farmhouse Bread- 

To make one peck of flour into bread : Put in the sponge 
when you are preparing to go to bed, with the following quan- 
tities : 2 quarts of warm water (not hot), teaspoonful of sugar, 
about half of the flour, and 2 ozs. yeast ; stir these into a sponge 
in a pan large enough to allow room to rise to double its initial 
bulk, put this into a comfortable corner, with a stick across to 
keep the cloth out, cover up and leave until you get up. In 
about eight to twelve hours from the time the sponge was put in, 
make the dough, add another quart of warm water, 2 ozs. 
salt, well mix them and make into a firm dough. In about 
an hour it will be ready to mould up for the oven ; keep it 
warm. 

VI. Small Fancy Bread for the Stillroom Maids. 

At bedtime, put in a sponge with one quart of half milk and 
half water, (if the weather is cold) as warm as you can comfort- 
ably bear the back of your hand in, not quite 2 ozs. yeast, 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



139 



teaspoonful of sugar, and enough fine flour (as good as the 
/establishment contains, fine Hungarian if possible), to make it 
into a nice batter, stir well and put into a comfortable corner to 
ferment until you get up. The pan must be quite a gallon size. 
As soon as you come down in the morning weigh and powder 
1 oz. salt and sprinkle over the top of the sponge; add half 
pint warm water ; rub 2 ozs. good butter (fresh if you may use it) 
into enough flour, and make the sponge into a nice firm smooth 
dough, cover this up to prove ; if it has got cold you must warm 
it up carefully by putting it near the fiie, but don't partially bake 
it. When it has risen, mould it into the rolls you require, well 
prove (rise) before baking, and bake in a nice hot oven. This 
will make almost any kinds of rolls for breakfast. Add sugar, or 
eggs, when preferred. 



Quantities. — 1 bushel fine Hungarian flour; £ lb. sugar; 6 
ozs. yeast; 4 ozs. salt; 12 quarts water. Stir a good sponge, 
but not tight or firm, with 8 quarts water, 90 degs. (Fahr.), 
yeast, sugar, and sufficient flour. Allow it to rise and subside, 
which will be in about four hours. Then dissolve the salt in 
three more quarts of warm water, break into the sponge, make a 
tough but not hard dough ; give it a good proof in trough ; it 
will move quickly when ready to throw out. 

For crescents use 2 ozs. fresh butter and \ oz. powdered loaf 
sugar to the pound of dough, and 2 ozs. yeast to the quart ; work in 
carefully, but don't make it too stiff. The queen's bread should 
have an egg added to this quantity of butter and sugar. The 
crescent, queen's, and twist dough will require to prove an hour 
or two longer than the Vienna dough. For dinner rolls, break 
/eight out of 1 lb. dough ; penny rolls four out of 1 lb. ; twopenny 
rolls, 10 ozs. ; threepenny, 1 lb. ; sixpenny, 2 lbs. ; Crescents and 
queen's, six or eight out of 1 lb., according to neighbourhood and 
credit 

Vm. Vienna Bread : Small Bakers and Hotels, 

Quantities. — 2 ozs. yeast ; 1 quart water ; 1 quart milk 1 oz. 
sugar ; 1 oz. salt ; and 9 lbs. finest Hungarian flour. Put 
in a sponge, with the milk and water at 90 degs. (Fahr.), yeast, 
sugar, and flour to make a batter sponge. Let this rise and fall, 
and then make the dough. Powder the salt on to the sponge, 
and mix in with enough flour to make a light dough. It will be 
ready for moulding in an hour. 



VIE. Vienna Bread : Baker's* 




*4° 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



The Glazing of Vienna Bread by Steam. 

The glaze upon Vienna bread is the same, and produced in 
much the same way, as the glaze upon Cracknel biscuits. The 
Ordinary suet dumpling also, if it were put into a moderately hot 
oven and baked immediately after coming out of the pot, would 
shine just the same. The boiling water in both cases acts upon 
the surface of the dough, and converts the starchy matter of the 
flour into a gummy substance called " dextrine,' ' which is the gum 
or mucilage of commerce, and is produced by the action of heat 
upon starch. The starch is first gelatinized by the steam, and 
then by heat set in a hard glaze. 

The baker will therefore perceive that there are two things 
necessary at the outset of this glazing — viz., heat and moisture.^ 
This will be effected by putting a moist surface-dtfugh into" "a 
dense body of "wet" steam, which will " dextrinise" and soften 
the surface ; and then the heat of the oven will set this fast in 
the form of a polish upon' the crust during the baking. It will 
be best, perhaps, to give directions in detail how this is to be 
accomplished. When the loaves or rolls are moulded, put them 
away out of the draught Make the oven hot, but not rash or 
scorching, as that will not only colour the rolls too freely, but 
probably destroy more steam than there is to spare ; nor must 
the oven be a cold dead heat, because then there will not be 
enough disengaged heat to catch and rapidly set fast the wet 
surface with which the steam has covered the dough. While the 
rolls are proving, and the oven is heating, the steam also 
must be "getting up" in the boiler.* Any quantity will 
do ; as a rule the more the better — from 40 lbs. ; not dry 
steam, or hot vapour, but wet steam newly generated from 
a good body of water, the boiler being half or two-third9 
full. Arrange to have the oven, steam, and rolls, all ready at the 
same time ; then wash the rolls over with a thin paste or wash, 
by scalding a little flour with boiling water; turn about 15 to 26 
lbs. of the steam into the oven, and then, with the steam stiH 
going into the oven, cut the rolls and put them quickly in, and 
shut the oven-door, closing every aperture that would let the 
steam out. Note particularly. — The rolls must be put into the 
steam, because, if the surface be allowed to get dry in the oven, 
it will be next to impossible for any amount of steam to cause a 
polish. There may be plenty of steam available, in which case 
shut it off after the bread has been in the oven a few minutes. 



•Werner, Pfleiderer and Perkins have introduced into their " Telescocar " 
Drawplate Ovens an improved steam generating apparatus, by means of 
which Vienna Bread can be perfectly baked in these Ovens* 




THE BAKERS GUIDE., 



14* 



VIENNA BREAD SHAPES. 

1. Crescents or Kipfels (English, see "Bread Recipes"). 
Vienna Kipfels (see ' ' Crescents , *). The Milch Kipfel is made 
from ordinary Vienna dough and baked as crescents. The Saltz 
Kipjel: Shape up (from) Vienna dough, wash over with milk, 
and dip them in course table salt and caraway seeds ; tin and 
tyake as the others. 2. Lutter Struyzel are made and baked as 
Vienna bread. 3. Mohn Struyzel ': Make two long cords or 
rolls, as for ordinary rolls ; lay them across each other in the cen- 




VIENNA BREAD SHAPES. 



tre, there will then be four ends ;* plait all four ; put on tins and 
prove ; wash with milk ; cover with poppy seeds (Mohn) ; bake 
as usual. 4. The Kaiser Semmel is made from Vienna dough proved 
and baked as usual. The shaping of them is rather difficult. 
We have adopted a new and quicker way of shaping in London. 
Ordinary round rolls are cut, not straight across; but from the 
centre five times, of equal distance. The German mode : Take 
the roll, flatten it, and fold a fifth of the outer part over towards 
the ceptre and following each other, striking each fold to keep 
it in its place when baked. The fifth and last fold should be 
pushed neatly under the first fold, forming a star or rosette. 

Crescents 

lire also made from Vienna flour.. The operator proceeds as for 
Vienna rolls ; but when the sponge is ready, works into each lb. 
of dough 1 oz. more butter, and a teaspoonful oj white sugar. This 
dough must be made much firmer than the former, on account of 
the shaping. It is covered up, and put aside for about an hour, 
and is then ready for moulding. Weigh off into pieces of about 
2 ozs., and rpll out to about the size of small cheese-plates, 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



keeping them constantly covered with a slightly-damped cloth as 
far as possible throughout the moulding. This is very essential 
in all fancy breads, as it preserves what is called the " bloom/' 
which is caused by a moist surface engaging more of the oven 
heat than a dry surface. The round piece of dough is now pulled 
slightly out to an oval shape ; then one of the narrow ends i9 
taken on the thumb, and rolled or folded outwards, care to be 
taken that the centre is pressed with the two forefingers as you 
proceed, pushing them from you : the shape would otherwise be 
too bulky in the middle. Now press the ends downwards into. 




CRESCENTS., 

crescent or horse-shoe form ; place them upon a baking-sheet of 
flat tin ; put aside to prove or rise for half an-hour ; then lightly 
touch with milk, as for the Vienna rolls ; bake in a " sound * 
oven, and, if possible, put into plenty of steam. If care is taken 
in the shaping and proving, a pretty and appetizing breakfast roll 
will be the result. 

Queen's Bread. 

The sponge and the dough of Queen's bread are similar to that 
of the crescents, with this exception — that an egg is added (the 

Quantity of 8 lbs. of flour being still retained as the basis). The 
ough is also worked firm as before, for making into shape. 
Weigh into 2 oz. pieces, make into balls, and, after allowing 
to stand for about five minutes, roll into lengths of, say, 8 inches, 
under the palms of the hands. Then shape into knots, twists, 
S's, etc. They admit of a variety of shapes, according to taste, 
and must be proved, washed, and baked as crescents. 

Scooped-out Rolls 

are designed for the reception of potted meats, and are made 
from the same dough as crescents, but without sugar. They are 
weighed in 1 and 2 oz. pieces, and moulded egg shape. The part 
that forms the closing or join of the roll is placed upon the tin, to 
preserve the shape. They should be well proven and well baked. 
The bottom is then carefully sliced off, and the inside cleanly 
scooped out and filled with mince or potted meats, and the 
bottom or lid re-fastened upon it with white of egg^ 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



143 



Sandwich Rolls 



may be made of the same dough. Take a piece, and roll out 
very thin (to about the eighth of an inch) ; cut it into halves ; 
dust the space between with rice or fine flour. Lay one piece 
upon the other, put upon tins, and cut them through to the size 
required, but without disturbing the whole; then put aside to 
prove. Wash with milk as before ; and bake in a sharp oven. 
When cold, the squares are parted from each other, and then the 
halves or layers are easily separated. Spread with potted ham, 
etc., to taste, and put together again. 

" Brioche : " a Rich French Bread. 

1. Prepare mixture as follows : \ pint milk ; f lb. butter ; t 
oz. sugar ; J oz. salt ; 6 eggs ; 2 oz. yeast ; and about 2\ lbs. fine 
Hungarian flour. Make the milk warm, mix with it the sugar, 
yeast, and a table-spoonful of flour : set this to ferment for an 
hour, then break the eggs into it, powder the salt, and rub the 
butter roughly with flour, and well knead the whole mixture into 
a smooth, firm dough. Put this dough away to prove for two or 
three hours, then knead it up again and weigh into pieces of 
2 ozs. each ; mould into cottage-shaped loaves, with a very small 
top, place upon tins to rise, and bake a rich yellow colour. 
Before and after baking wash over with egg. 

2. There is another Brioche, for kitchen use, prepared as 
follows : Mix half the above quantity of sugar and milk with the 
yeast, and i lb. flour, and ferment as above; then rub the 
butter with the powdered salt, add the eggs and about 1 lb. of 
flour, and knead the whole mixture into a firm, smooth dough ; 
spread it out upon the board, and lightly dust with flour ; knead 
it, and put away to prove for four hours or more, to suit con- 
venience in making up. To lie all night will not harm, but 
rather improve it. When well risen, knead it up, and it will then 
be ready for use. It should be moulded in one loaf, same shape 
as the smaller ones, notched round the side, and put into a 
cake-tin to prove for half an hour ; wash over with egg, and 
bake in a moderate oven. This brioche paste or dough can be 
used for ornamental shapes, or to encase fruits, preserves, etc. 



The following recipe may be relied upon to produce a satis- 
factory result. About 8 lbs. Vienna flour will be a convenient 
quantity to work up. For this, 3 ozs. fresh yeast will be re- 
quired, 2 ozs. good butter, with 2 ozs. each of salt and white 
sugar, and £lb. potatoes, peeled, boiled, and mashed fine. Place 
2 quarts water and i pint milk, warmed to blood heat — or 90 



Vienna Bolls for Hotels, etc 




THE BAKERS' GUIDE, 



degs. (Fahr.) — in a large bowl or pan, which should be free from 
grease, and mix into it the yeast, the potatoes, the sugar, and 
about i lb. of the flour. Put away this sponge in a warm place 
; to ferment for about three hours. When it settles down, or 
"drops," it is ready; but may stand another hour or two, if 
necessary, without damage. The powdered salt is now mixed 
1 into the sponge ; the butter is taken and carefully rubbed into 
the remainder of the flour, which is then mixed with the sponge, 
and the dough is to be made soft ; flour may be added if 
necessary, but with care. It is now put away to prove for 
another hour ; then lightly folded together, using a little flour 
or ground rice to keep it from adhering to the board and hands. 
Weigh into pieces of | lb., \ lb., or i lb. — the usual size for these 
foils ; make them round, cover up for a few minutes that elas- 
ticity may be restored, then mould them into oval or egg shape, 
the larger ones to be made into long rolls with pointed ends, 
which is done by folding over and over inwards towards the 
moulder, pressing with both thumbs on the centre of the dough, 
until the ends are gradually worked out to the requisite length of 
3, 6, or 12 inches, respectively. They should be put away in a 
drawer or cupboard to "prove," or rise, for half an hour, and 
are then ready for the oven. It is usual, before putting them 
into the oven, to cut or score the top three or four times slant- 
wise (see engraving, p. 141), and, if washed over with a little milk, 
a fine golden hue will be imparted. They should be placed 
upon the bottom ; if not, use a baking-sheet or tin ; but the 
oven must be of a good heat, though not rash or scorching. 
These rolls must be baked crisp. 

The Vienna roll dough will also make excellent French rolls 
and tin bread for sandwiches and toast. These are to be well 
proved in tins made for the purpose, and baked crisp in a sharp 
oven. The French rolls are rasped. 

To Make Six Bushels of Bread with Brewer's Thick 

or Compressed Yeast- 
Set the ferment as follows : — Boil and mash 14 lbs. potatoes, 
or. \ lb. yeast food ; add 4 quarts water, and strain into a tub ; 
when strained, test the heat with a thermometer, and use hot 
or cold water to make the whole about 90 degs. (Fahr.) ; 
well mix into this 1 lb. flour ; and then pour in 1 quart 
yeast or 1 lb. compressed brewer's yeast (dissolved), stirring 
it round once or twice ; cover up the tub, and allow to 
ferment five or six hours. The ferment must not be moved 
or shaken until it is ready — that is, until fermentation has 
begun to subside, and the ferment is going, or has gone, 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



'45 



•down. When ready, add 7 gallons water (heat, 86 degs. (Fahr.) 
when flour is in), strain into the trough, and mix into it enough 
flour to make into a tough, dry batter ; pin this up into one end of 
the trough ; let this sponge rise and fall, or incline downwards, 
twice — usually it will take about six hours ; when the sponge is 
ready, dissolve 3f lbs. salt in 7 gallons water 80 degs.) ; pour this 
into the sponge, and mix all together, breaking the sponge smooth 
with the salt liquor, then make into a stiff dough, quite clear from 
scraps and dry flour ; give it plenty of labour to bring out the 
r gluten ; allow the dough to ferment until it is full of gas, then 
cut into pieces, dust lightly with flour, knead and fold it well 
together, throw it out of the trough, weigh off, hand up, mould 
into loaves, prove, and bake in a good " sound " oven. 

To make Six Bushels with Dried Yeast without 
Potatoes. 

58 quarts water, 280 lbs. good flour, 2\ lbs. salt, £ lbs. yeast, 
2 ozs. sugar. Put in a sponge with half the water, yeast (dissolved), 
sugar, and enough flour to make a sponge, about 84 degs. 
/Fahr.); and let this lie about eight hours, until it rises and 
subsides. When it begins to go down, dissolve the salt in the 
remaining water (warm), add \ lb. diastase, and make a good 
dry dough ; prove two hours, then throw out. Scale off and let 
it prove a little, and then mould. These alterations are necessary 
because of the improved quality of the yeast now, and potatoes 
to assist further growth of yeast is unnecessary. 

To make Six Bushels with any of the Flour Barms 
on the Scotch System. 

Use 8 quarts barm, 60 quarts water, half sack of soft mellow 
roller supers, and half sack good patent process middlings, mixed 
together, and 4 lbs. salt. These quantities are the same for 
half or quarter sponging. 

* 
* * 

Half-Sponge.— Stir a stiff sponge with half the water at about 
84 degs. (Fahr.), the barm, 1 lb. salt, and sufficient flour for the 
purpose. This should have about twelve hours to ferment, then 
break into it the other water, in which 3 lbs. salt have been 
dissolved, and make a weak dough ; let this prove until full of 
gas and it tears short ; then throw out, scale off, mould, prove, and 
bake ; or if for crumby packed bread, put into the oven direct 
from the moulder's hands. It is usual to brush the sides and 
(ends with melted lard. 



Digitized by 



146 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



Quarter-Sponge.— Stir stiff batter in a tub with 8 quart* 
barm, 12 quarts warm water, \ lb. salt, and sufficient flour ; this 
will be ready in about 10 hours. Then break into this 40 more 
quarts water and 2 lbs. salt ; turn it into the trough and make a 
nice springy sponge ; this will be in three or four hours. When 
it begins to subside mix in 6 more quarts water, and ijlbs. salt, 
and make into a tough, light dough, using plenty of labour. 
Watch this dough— if the weather is warm it will fly ; don't let it 
get ahead ; follow it up quickly. Note,— In working with flour 
barms you have already generated a good body of yeast and gas 
in the barm, therefore use plenty of u pickle " in the later stages. 
The sponges are the most particular part. Stir tough, not hard 
and tight, but spongy sponges, a stiff batter that will bear your 
arms to take some up without breaking. Join your hands 
together under the batter, and flap it over and mark it across two 
or three times, as our " Jock " used to say, " to keep the witches 
out," dry-dusting every time. It is now becoming customary to 
use a little distiller's compressed in the last stage of the process, 
which points to the early substitution of distiller's compressed in 
the place of Parisian. If it is found useful to use a little to help 
the Parisian, why not use it altogether, and let the risky, 
troublesome Parisian go entirely. 



There are several kinds of these cookies and bread which 
English, Welsh, and Irish will find it commercially useful to 
imitate. London, Dublin, and other large towns will find a 
ready sale for the halfpenny cookies. The Scotch pan and 
plain bread is very much superior in fineness of texture and 
volume to that of English and Welsh towns, though Ireland has 
not much to learn in this matter of fineness and bulk, perhaps 
rather, like Scotland, just a little to unlearn, and for this reason 
their mode of making is not reproduced here : it is so wasteful 
of time, of labour, and of nett profit. Nor is the tempera- 
ture of the water given. It is dangerons to do so ; it is the base 
of all, but it is a base that can only be laid down in the identical 
spot, the strength and temperature of the flour, and heat of 
atmosphere inside and outside, are factors which must be known 
before doing so. 

The formula for plain, pan, and " French " here given is de- 
signed to meet the needs of those who sponge or make dough 
overnight for use in the morning ; and to those who have read 
the articles upon straight doughs, the seven phases in the life of 
a loaf, and yeast functioning, herein, it will be apparent that 
the twelve hours in the dough stage is not arbitrary to the pro« 



Scotch Bread and Cookies* 




THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



147 



cess, but can be quite safely reduced to six or eight hours. For 
those who find that time more convenient by an increase of heat 
and yeast, it will be only necessary to point out to the practical 
workman that this straight-made dough is merely a tight sponge 
with more salt than usual in it, and the temperature, if it is 
increased about 5 0 over that of the sponges they are in the 
habit of stirring at any time of the year, the results will be near 
enough to guide them to success after a trial or two. It will be 
noted by Scotchmen that the quantities given are the same for 
French, pan, and plain. The reason for this is that it does not 
appear necessary in breads of the same type in volume and 
texture to have different processes in making up. Scotchmen 
themselves do not make their French of equal firmness, but 
weaker or firmer to their own taste. The only difference 
necessary is not in the quantities but in the qualities of the 
flour used, and the addition of lard to the French. (Do please 
use best English or Irish lard, not the strong flavoured American, 
it is quite nasty in some of the cookies.) 

Formula, — Make up a straight dough with 280 lbs. of flour 
(quality to suit price and kind), 1 lb. malt extract, 1 lb. distiller's 
yeast, 4^ lbs. salt, 60 quarts of water (15 gallons of 10 lbs. each), 
and, if for French or pan bread,' \\ lbs. of melted butter or lard. 
Separate the yeast in a little of the water with the malt extract, 
dissolve the salt in the other water and then make the whole up 
into a clear dough. Cover up and leave to ferment for t 2 hours. 
Then dry, dust, and knead well, and throw out of trough. Scale 
off, hand up, give it time to recover, and then mould into the 
shapes required. 

Mould the loaf into a compact roll of about 10 inches in 
length, pass the grease brush round them, and then place upon 
a baking sheet quite closely. Upset them all round to keep in 
shape. Prove well, and bake. 

Cookie Rolls are made by taking a piece of the sponge off 
(when ready) before the salt and water are added, and then 
rubbing into it sugar and butter or some other fat. 

For No. 1, called Plain Biscuit, add to each pound of 
sponge 2 ozs. fat, 1 oz. of sugar, and dry up into dough with soft 
white flour. Let prove two to three hours ; weigh off 2 ozs. 
for id. y roll out like the ordinary batch or coffee-shop tea-cakes, 
and prove well in boxes. When ready for oven, put upon tins, 
and then dock in middle with a small docker, and bake. 

No. 2, Plain or Currant Cookies : 1£ ozs. fat, 1 £ ozs. 
sugar ; rub in, and dry up into soft dough (like ordinary bun 
•dough). Prove three hours, scale 2 ozs. for £d. ; roll round, 
flatten to about 4 ins. ; place upon tins, put a bow of short- 




148 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



paste upon top ; prove in steam-press very light, and bake lightly 
like a bun. Before putting on the paste wash with a mixture 
of egg and milk. This round roll, also notched as a star from 
centre to side, like the old Scotch bun, washed over, proved and 
baked, is also a nice cookie, and if a few currants are mixed into 
this, so much the better for a change. 

No. 3, the Hand Roll, is made the same as for No 4 dough, 
but moulded and rolled oval and flat, and then cut 5 times one 
end to represent fingers, washed over, proved well in press (upon 
tins), and baked as for buns. 

No. 4, the Victoria Roll : 1 oz. fat to 1 lb. sponge, rub in, 
and let lay three hours ; weigh 2 ozs. for ^d., pin out the piece 
oval to about 4 ins. in length, then fold over one end to make a 
half-circle turnover. Put upon a tin, wash over, prove well, and 
bake as a bun. This roll, when nicely made, looks very well ; 
it rises in the oven like an oval puff, and is light and nice, in 
fact, they are a really fine, big, good-looking halfpennyworth, and 
cannot fail to sell well. Try them. 

Blandy's Fancy Tea Bread. 

Make a sponge with \ lb. sugar, 1 lb. flour, 2 ozs. yeast, 1 \ 
pints milk (90 degs.) ; when it subsides add \ lb. warm butter, 
z lbs. flour, and 3 eggs ; make dough, and allow to rise one 
hour ; then make into 2-oz. size a number of fancy shapes, prove, 
wash over carefully with yolk of egg, and bake in a sound oven. 

RECIPES— CAKES, PASTRIES, BISCUITS, FLOUR 
AND SUGAR CONFECTIONERY. 

POCKETS control pulses and palates ; but don't imitate 
best goods with common materials. This destroys the 
confidence of the public and lowers the trade. Make 
cheap goods in new shapes, and different mixtures. 
.There is room for the ingenious here ; imitation is not good 
or clever. 

I have endeavoured in the following collection of recipes tb 
'cater for every ordinary want of the ordinary baker, pastry-cook 
or confectioner, ship's baker, and restaurateur. Usually there are 
general characteristics that apply to the varieties of the same 
class of goods, and I have given at the beginning of each class 
some general rules to be observed when preparing that kind of 
goods. It will be useful, therefore, when working from these 
recipes to go back to the commencement of the section or class 
from which the recipe is taken, to see what hints are there given 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



149 



for this kind of work. This will enable the worker to get better 
results, by inviting him to always prepare his goods with brains. 
Try and find out the principles which underlie the cake or bis- 
cuit, etc. Don't work like an automaton. I have not given in 
the. jecipes the weights, or prices of goods to be sold at, this 
must be gauged by the expense of raw material, labour, and^ 
other expense. Ascertain the gross cost of production and dis- 
tribution, and put on 25 per cent for gross profit, or to suit 
the system of cash or credit or other special features, but do not^ 
starve the maker for the benefit of the buyer. 



It is most important in making nearly every kind of cake, that 
the butter and sugar be creamed previous to the eggs going in, 
and that the eggs be put in one or two at a time and beaten 
before the others are added. In cold weather the danger is that 
the cold eggs will set the butter and refuse to amalgamate with it,' 
and what bakers term curdle the mixture ; therefore the butter 
should be slightly warmed before and during the time of beating, 
to make it cream or work up quickly and lightly, and the eggs 
should be stood for a few minutes in warm water to take the 
u chill " off and help the albumen to expand freely. The danger 
to be avoided is the melting of the butter into oil, and then it is 
impossible to get enough air into it ; or to expand the egg and 
make it light and frothy ; the thin oily butter continually falling 
upon these small air-balloons, as it were, breaks or allows them to 
escape out of the mixture ; also note, that after the egg is beaten, 
there is a danger of destroying some of these said air 
cells that have been formed ; therefore in adding the flour, etc., 
to a- cake after beating the eggs, never work it about more than 
is barely necessary to incorporate such flour or other ingredients \ 
handle the mixture lightly and quickly, but don't be afraid of 
putting plenty of labour into the creaming or preliminary beating 
of the eggs, sugar, and butter ; the more beating the lighter the, 
cake. 

This lightness of handling as well as speed in working off must 
be more particularly observed, when the lightness of the cake 
depends upon the effervescence of gas from bakiag powders. If 
a cake is poor and has to depend upon this gas for its lightness, 
and either by roughness of work or waste; of time the gas escapes, 
there is very little hope that it will be light. It is sometimes 
difficult to get all the eggs into rich mixtures without curdling ; a 
handful of the weighed flour thrown in while beating will obviate 
this. Whenever baking powder, carbonate of soda and cream of 



To Cream Butter for Cakes- 




THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



tartar, are used in cake making, they must always be sifted and 
well mixed in the flour ; volatile (ammonia) must be powdered 
and beaten up with the mixture, or dissolved in the milk ; but it 
is not necessary to hurry it into oven, as moisture does not 
decompose it as it does the other acids and carbonates. It is 
disunited, and gas is evolved by heat of oven. 

[Baking Powder. — In the recipes, where baking powder is 
mentioned in this book, it invariably means the recipe in the list 
as Baking Powder No. i.] 

Test the Eggs- 

Eggs form so important a part in the preparation and success- 
ful turning out of the goods that each egg must be tested. One 
musty egg will spoil the largest mixture beyond remedy ; there- 
fore crack and smell each egg separately. A thin, watery egg 
will not injure the flavour ; but where lightness or strength are 
required the eggs should be quite fresh. 

Get the Ingredients Beady. 

In making up goods always get the ingredients ready. Before 
beginning the preparatory beating, etc., see that the cake-tins, 
hoops, or baking tins are ready ; currants, etc., washed, picked, 
and weighed ; peel cut ; flour, butter, sugar, eggs, all weighed ; 
and then the mind will be left clear to work out the necessary 
formula and directions. Also be sure and watch the process in 
every stage ; be most careful about small details, such as the 
flavouring, baking, sending up or displaying; and above all, 
beware of dirty pans or cooking utensils, and grit in the fruit. 

Spice in Cakes, etc 

Nearly all those flavourings that come under the head of 
spice, if used in cakes, buns, and biscuits in very small 
quantities, generally improve the palatableness and aroma. Spice 
is harmless to the majority of persons, and in nearly all cases is 
considered a great improvement, though it has of late become 
unpopular with delicate persons and palates, owing to its having 
been used in certain dishes with too free a hand. This is to be 
regretted, as sometimes it saves a dish from being positively 
insipid. Few would think of objecting to the delicate flavom 
imparted to their custard by the addition of a bay-leaf, or a piece 
of cinnamon, or to the clove in their apple-tart ; but if through 
the ignorance of some cook our tart has been spoilt by the 
addition of twenty cloves instead of three, or the custard appears 
to be only a dish of bayleaves, shall we, for that reason, univer- 
sally condemn the use of these extremely useful flavourings ? The 
same may be said of mace, nutmeg, and all the tribe of spices. 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



not even excepting the much-abused pimento or allspice. The 
addition of a few drops of mixed spice to any fruit- cake mixture 
or buns, or of powdered cinnamon to the Madeira, or of nutmeg 
and a glass of rum to the -Genoa cake, will improve them. 
Having said this much, we leave the matter of the use of spice 
to the tastes and discretion of our readers. Essence of spice is 
preferable ; it does not discolour the goods. 



1 J lb. eggs, 1 lb. flour, 1 lb. castor sugar, and about 4 drops 
lemon essence ; orf lb. sugar, Jib. flour, and 1 lb. eggs. Put the 
eggs and sugar into a pan large enough to allow room for 
whisking without waste, then well whip for about half-an-hour— 
if a machine is used, from ten to fifteen minutes will be long 
enough — passing the whisk through the mixture always in one 
direciion, not backwards and forwards, nor with a chopping, 
jerky stroke, but with a regular motion from right to left, 
bringing the whisk over to the right again, forming a circle each 
time. Do not stop or rest from whipping the mixture until 
quite ready, because the air cells that have been formed by the 
rapid beating, being extremely fragile, will collapse, the expanded 
and separated albumen of the eggs go together again, and the 
mixture become leathery and heavy. If unable to sustain the 
exertion so long, ask a companion or fellow-worker to give you 
a few minutes' rest by taking your place. Whether in bakehouse 
or kitchen this will be cheerfully vouchsafed. At the end of the 
half-hour it will be ready ; add the essence of lemon, stirring 
once or twice, and having previously sifted the flour carefully 
and lightly, mix. Great care must be exercised in mixing in 
the flour, as every motion of the spoon in its passage through 
the mixture destroys some of the aforesaid air-cells, ' and the 
more it is stirred the heavier it will become. As soon as the 
flour is mixed, it should be put into the moulds or frames 
(previously prepared), and baked in a sound oven that has been 
made hot and allowed to cool a little. The smaller sizes should 
be dusted on the top with castor sugar when in the tins. They 
bake very quickly, and must be watched. 

To prepare sponge-cake tins : Wash well, dry thoroughly, then 
grease with the following preparation — \ lb. beef suet, the same 
quantity of lard ; melt, and add a table spoonful of flour ; when 
cool enough work it with a paste brush into a froth, with which 
grease the tins. If the tins or moulds have awkward angles or 
recesses that the brush will not reach, the grease must be poured 
in while warm, and the tins turned upside down to drain. Having 
greased the tins, sift over them some fine castor sugar through a 
fine hair sieve ; turn them • upside down, and slightly knock the 



Sponge Cakes- 




I S 2 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



loose dust out, only leaving enough to cover the whole of the 
inside with a smooth white surface : if the grease or the sugar is 
put on too thick or allowed to settle in the corners, when it is put 
into the oven this part will burn and spoil the appearance of the 
cake. 

German Sponge Cakes* 

\ lb. sugar, 10 eggs, 6 ozs. butter, \ lb. flour, the juice of a 
lemon, and a little grated rind of ditto. Beat the eggs and 
sugar as for sponge cakes, cream the butter, stir in the lemon 
juice and rind, add the flour and the beaten eggs and sugar, fill 
small well-buttered moulds, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Sponge Cake with Apple Foam. 

Cut a small sponge cake into slices, lay in glass dish, and pour 
over them enough sherry and cream to moisten them through. 
Put a few peeled and cored apples, with a gill of water, . i oz. 
sugar, and the juice of a lemon, in a stewpan and boil down 
carefully to a thick pulp ; rub it through a sieve, beat it to a froth, 
and having whipped the whites of 8 eggs to a meringue con- 
sistency, mix the two together, and put it in a rough uneven shape 
on the slices of sponge cake. 

Tips; Cake (Plain). 

Get a Savoy cake (a stale one is the best), stick it all over 
with blanched almonds cut in strips, place it on a glass dish, 
which should be a round one, and pour over it one pint of sherry, J 
with half a quartern of brandy, as the wine runs through put it 
back with a spoon until soaked through. Make a boiled custard 
in the following manner : Break 5 eggs into a basin with 2 ozs. of 
fine sugar; place 1 pint of milk on the fire and let it come to the 
boil, pour it on the eggs and whisk well together. Place it over 
the fire, keep stirring until thick, but on no account let it boil, 
or it will curdle and spoil. Pour it over the cake, sprinkle over 
with some nonpareils, flavour the custard with a few drops of 
essence of almonds or vanilla. 

Savoy (Sponge) Moulds. 

Eggs, ii lb., 1 lb. flour, 14 ozs. castor sugar. Proceed as for 
sponge cakes, but bake in a much cooler oven. Fill the mould ; 
to within an inch of the top, then place a stiff band of greased ; 
paper round the outer surface and extending about three inches ' 
above the top ; securely fasten with string to prevent the cake i 
running over. To ascertain if it is baked, push a piece of thin 
wood into the centre of the cake and draw it out slowly ; if the : 
wood comes out clean, the cake is done, but not so if the cake 
adheres to it, * 



Digitized by 



THE BAKEBS GUIDE. 



153 



Swiss (Jam) KoH 



6 eggs, 6 ozs. sugar, 6 ozs. flour, or 1 oz. of sugar and flour 
to every egg. Whip the eggs and sugar as for sponge-cake 
batter, stir in flour, turn out upon a sheet of white paper about 
1 5 inches square, spread evenly and of equal thickness over the 
whole surface of the paper. Bake in a hot oven for a few 
minutes only ; as soon as it is set take it out, let it stand about 
a minute, turn it upside down upon a cloth, slightly moisten the 
paper, peel it off, and spread the roll with preserve (raspberry or 
greengage is usually preferred) ; then carefully roll it up, wash 
over with egg, and finally roll it in loaf sugar dust. 

If jam sandwiches are required, put the mixture in circular 
tins, bake in a sharp oven ; when baked, put two of these 
together with jam between, and cut into quarters. 



Finger biscuits are prepared and beaten as sponge cakes, but 
with extra care in the beating; when ready, they are pressed 
through the savoy bag upon paper. To accomplish this neat- 
ly, some practice is necessary ; and as a guide to learners 
we will give a few directions which will elucidate the 
process. Put some of the mixture into a savoy bag, plug up 
the pipe with a cork, then twist up the mouth of the bag, and 
place it in a horizontal position between the thumb and fore- 
finger of the right hand ; then take the other end in the left, 
place the pipe upon the paper, remove the cork, slightly press 
the top of the bag with the right hand, and guide the pipe with 
the left ; draw the bag towards you, and when the finger is about 
three inches long, cease to press the bag and simultaneously 
snatch it away. Run the whole mixture out as quickly as 
possible, then sift over some fine sugar, place upon a baking-tin, 
and bake in a sound oven. When baked, turn them upside- 
down, damp (not soak — it will run through and spoil them) the 
paper with warm water, and turn them over again ; take them off 
the paper, and fasten the two halves together ; if they do not 
stick well, use a little white of egg. 



I. — I lb. butter, fib. of castor sugar, 1 lb. flour, 1 lb. of eggs, 
pinch of powder. Put the butter and sugar into a pan large 
enough to hold the mixture ; stand it near the fire, or in hot 
water, to soften the butter but not to melt, or it will ont cream 



Savoy (Sponge) Fingers- 



Eggs 1 lb. 2 oz., 1 lb. sugar, 1 



lb. flour, 4 drops essence of lemon. 



Maderia Cake* 



L 




154 



THE BAKERS 1 GUIDE. 



properly ; when softened, beat until it resembles thick whipped 
cream (this is called " creaming the butter "). When ready, add 
the eggs, one at a time, beating the mixture to a cream again after 
each egg ; add 4 drops of essence of lemon, giving one or two 
turns, then stir in the flour ; as soon as it is smooth and the flour 
is incorporated it will do. Do not beat it after the flour is in. 
These cakes are usually baked in small round hoops or tins 
papered, and placed upon a baking-sheet. When ready for the 
oven, sift over them some fine loaf-sugar dust, sprinkle gently 
with water, lay on each cake two thin slices of citron, and bake in 
a cool oven. Being very 1 light, these cakes should not be shaken 
or taken out of the oven until done, or they will sink in the 
middle. During the baking they usually break open on the top, 
and when not sufficiently baked this opening will look moist. 

II. — 2j lbs, flour, 2$ lbs. butter, 2 lbs. sugar, 2J lbs. eggs, the 
grated peel of 2 lemons, £ lb. citron peel cut small, a little grated 
nutmeg, pinch of powder, and a glass of brandy. Mix as before 
directed, and bake in small sizes. 

III. . (Light). — 2 J lbs. butter, if lb. sugar, 2 lbs. eggs, 2 J lbs 
flour, piece of volatile the size of a pea, 6 drops essence of lemon 
enough powdered cinnamon to cover a sixpence. Cream care- 
fully ; mix and bake in the usual way. 

IV. (Commercial) — 8 lbs. butter, 7 lb. sugar, 10 lbs. eggs, 12 
lbs. flour, £ oz, cream, £ oz. carbonate soda, 8 drops essence 
lemon, about a pint of milk ; use a little egg yellow in these. 



I. (Seed). — This is a good luncheon or tea cake : 2 lbs. butter, 
2\ lbs. castor sugar, i£ lb. eggs, 6£ lbs. flour, 2 ozs. powder 
No. 1, 2 ozs. caraway seeds, 3 pints milk, \ lb. peel (chopped 
fine). Cream the butter, sugar, and eggs as for pound cakes, 
then add the peel and seeds, giving it a turn or two : put in the flour 
and milk, stir rapidly and thoroughly, and as soon as the flour is 
incorporated, transfer to tins previously prepared, and as quickly 
as possible put into the oven, or the effervescence which has 
begun will quickly subside, and the cake will not be so light as 
it otherwise would be. This cake being very light and not over- 
rich does not keep long. It should be eaten quite fresh. 

II. (Currant). — Mixture same as for seed, with the addition of 
2 lbs. sultanas, 2 lbs. currants, \ lb. peel. These ingredients 
should be added before the flour. Omit the seeds. 

III. (Balmoral Lunch). — 10 lbs. butter, n J lbs. sugar, nilbs. 
eggs, 25 lbs. flour, 10 ozs. powder, 10 lbs. sultanas, 6 lbs. peek 
6 pints milk, few drops essence of spice and almonds. 



School Cakes. 




THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



Found Cakes. 

I. — \\ lb. eggs, i lb. sugar, i lb. butter, 1} lb. flour, i lb. 
sultanas, currants and peel mixed, piece of ammonia big as a pea. 
Put the butter and sugar into a pan large enough to hold the 
fixture, stand in hot water to soften the butter, so that it will 
beat up easily into a cream-; it must not melt, or it will not cream 
properly. When soft, beat until it resembles thick whipped 
.cream. Now add the eggs, one at a time, beating the mixture 
to a cream again after each egg ; add the fruit and peel, giving 
the mixture a turn or two, stir in the flour, weigh off into sizes 
required, and bake in a sound oven. A small piece of sal 
volatile, about the size of a pea, powdered and beat up in the 
mixture, will greatly increase the lightness, and if eggs are scarce 
.and economy desired, a bit of volatile, the size of a small filbert, 
will do in the place of three ; but if the eggs be left out, 3 table- 
spoonfuls of milk must be put in, to compensate for the mois- 
ture of the eggs. Powdered cinnamon, enough to cover a six- 
pence, will greatly improve these cakes; dried cherries are a 
j;ood addition. 

II. — 10 lbs. flour, 7 lbs. sugar, 5 lbs. eggs, 1 oz. volatile, 61bs. 
butter, 4 lbs. sultanas, a few currants on top, allspice ; powder 
the vol. and beat it with the butter, sugar, and eggs ; cream and 
mix as usual. \ pint of milk. 

III. {Small). — \\ lb. butter, 1} lb. sugar, 1 pint of eggs, 
\ oz. volatile, gill of milk, 3 lbs. flour ; powder the volatile into 
the butter and cream as usual ; this mixture is suitable for small 
cheap cakes, being very light and plain. A few currants should 
be sprinkled on top. 

IV. (Small). — 1 lb. butter, i\ lbs. sugar, 1 lb. eggs, 3 lbs. 
flour, 1 pint milk, 2 ozs. powder, i lb. currants, and a piece of 
vol. size of a pea ; beat the vol. with the butter and sugar, sift 
the powder with the flour, mix as usual ; put a full table-spoon- 
ful into small round hoops placed upon a baking tin, and bake in 
a hot oven. The hoops should have paper collars in them. 

Christmas or Fruit Cakes. 

2 lbs. butter, 2 lbs. sugar, 2 J lbs. eggs, 3 lbs. flour, 4 lbs. cur- 
rants, 4 lbs. sultanas, 1 lb. mixed candied peel (chopped fine), 1 
.nutmeg (grated), a pinch of mixed spice, milk about a gill, to 
make the mixture soft and pliable. Prepare the mixture the same 
as for pound cakes ; place in large-sized cake-tins, and bake in a 
cool oven thoroughly. These cakes ought not to be eaten for 
some days, but should be put away in a cool, damp place to 
allow the atmosphere to act upon the juices and saccharine 
matter, and cause fermentation, which produces that fine flavour 
£0 much appreciated in bride cakes, etc. The cakes should not 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



be allowed to scorch, as this destroys their flavour, and impairs 
their digestibility. 

Plain Christmas Cakes- 

i lb. butter, i lb. sugar, i\ lb. eggs, 3$ lbs. flour, 1 lb. peel, 
4 lbs. currants, pinch of spice, 2 ozs. powder, 1 pint milk ; prepare 
us usual ; bake in a steady oven. 

Birthday Cake- 

1 lb. butter, 1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. eggs, 1 lb. flour, 1 lb. sultanas, 
I lb. peel, 1 lb. currants, and a pinch of spice. Cream butter, 
etc., as directed ; add fruit, etc., and bake in a cool oven. When 
cold, ice white, and write name and date, and 4< Many happy 
returns of the day," in pink icing-sugar on the top. Ornament 
sides either with sugar or frilled paper, etc. Dried cherries in 
place of currants for a better class cake. 

Bride Cake. 

I. — 1$ lb. butter, 1$ lb. sugar, i£ eggs, 2 lbs. flour, 1 lb. 
chopped almonds, £ lb. dried cherries, i£ lb. sultanas, 3 lbs. 
currants, * oz. spice, and gill of brandy. Cream butter, etc., the 
same as directed ; add fruit and flour, mix well, and put into well- 
papered tins, and bake for four or six hours in a cool oven. 
Bake on double tins. If the oven has got a sound bottom put a 
few ashes between two tins and put the cakes upon the top tin. 

II. — 3 lbs. butter, 4ilbs. sugar, 3 pints eggs, 4$ lbs. flour, 6 lbs. 
sultanas, 4 lbs. currants, 3 lbs. peel, 1 lb. chopped almonds, 1 oz. 
spice, 6 drops essence of almQnds, \ pint brandy ; cream and 
mix as before. These takes should be baked in a cool oven — 
place some ashes upon a tin, and then put the tin that has the 
cakes on upon the ashes. 

Rice Cake* 

i lb. butter, £ lb. sugar, \ lb. eggs (4), \ lb. prepared flour, J ib. 
ground rice, table-spoonful of milk. Cream butter and sugar 
usual way, and bake in cool oven. 

Cocoa-nut Cake* 

£ lb. fresh butter, £ lb. sugar, 1 lb. flour, \ lb. cocoa-nut 
(desiccated or grated), £ lb. eggs, and a gill of cream or good 
milk (if sour it will be better), 1 oz. of powder. Cream the butter, 
sugar, and eggs as usual for cakes ; then add cocoa-nut, flour, 
and cream, and bake in a good sound oven ; the prepared flour 
to be sifted with the flour previous to putting it in. When 
baked, ice with ordinary icing, or with meringue mixture, either 
of the two to be flavoured with an ounce or two of ground cocoa- 
nut ; or this icing can be dispensed with. 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



iS7 



German Kouglauffe. 



10 ozs. fresh butter, i lb. flour, 2 eggs, \ oz. powdered cinnamon, 
\ oz. grated lemon-peel, 2 ozs. sugar, 1 oz. yeast, and 1 gill of 
cream. Warm the cream, stir into it the eggs, yeast, sugar, and 
a little of the flour. Put this away for half an hour to rise ; then 
beat up the butter to a cream ; mix with it the ferment and the 
whole of the ingredients ; make them into a smooth batter, well 
butter a mould, put the mixture into it, and let it stand a, quarter 
of an hour, and then bake in a moderate oven. 



I. — 1 lb. sugar, i\ lb. eggs, 1 lb. butter, ijlbs. flour, Jib. peel, 
$ lb. almonds, 1 lb. sultanas, 1 gill brandy. Cream the butter 
and sugar, add the eggs, mix the flour and the fruit as for pound 
cakes, putting the brandy in with the flour ; when in the tins, put 
a few caraway comfits on the top, sift or dredge some castor 
sugar over them, sprinkle with water, and bake in not too hot 
an oven. 

II. (Seed). — 1 J lb. butter, ij lb. sugar, 2 lbs. flour, 12 eggs, 

1 lb. orange peel cut fine, i lb. blanched and chopped almonds, 

2 ozs. caraway seeds ; mix as before. When in the tins put some 
large caraway comfits on top. 

III. (Best). — 2 lbs. butter, 2 lbs. sugar, 2\ lbs. flour, 3 lbs. 
sultanas, 1 lb. peel, 1 oz. powder, 20 eggs, \ gill rum, and a 
pinch of powdered cinnamon , prepare and mix as usual ; when 
in the tins put caraway comfits on top ; bake in moderate oven. 



I. — \ lb. ground sweet almonds, \ lb. sugar, \ lb. flour, \ lb. 
butter, and 8 eggs. Cream butter and sugar as for other cakes ; 
add the eggs slowly, beating briskly all the time, then stir in the 
flour and almonds together; mix carefully, and bake in sizes 
required in a sound oven. If a few of the almonds are beaten in 
with butter and sugar the eggs will go in better. 

II. — 1 lb. ground almonds, i£ lb. sugar, 12 eggs, 1 lb. fine 
flour, \ lb. fresh butter, \ lb. fine chopped lemon peel ; cream the 
butter, sugar and eggs as for other cakes; add the other ingredients, 
mix lightly; weigh in required sizes, and bake carefully in a 
moderate oven. 



\ lb. butter, J lb. sugar, J lb. flour, 3 drops essence of almonds, 
1 oz. finely chopped lemon peel, \ pint cream, \ pint milk, and 
4 eggs. Cream butter and sugar, whisk eggs to a froth, mix all 
the ingredients well together, stir over the fire in a stew-pan for 



Dundee Cakes- 



Almond Cakes. 



Almond Darioles* 




iS8 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



ten minutes, but do not let it boil ; then line some small moulds 
with puff-paste, three-parts fill them with the mixture, and bake 
in a sound oven. When the pastry appears to be baked the cakes 
will do ; turn the moulds out and sift fine sugar over them. 



\ lb. butter, \ lb. sugar, i lb. eggs, \ gill brandy, \ lb. flour, the 
grated rind of two lemons ; cream the butter, sugar, and eggs in 
the usual way, stir in the lemon-rind, brandy, and flour ; put thi* 
into small moulds, and bake in a moderate oven. 



Whites of 8 eggs, \ lb. sugar, \ lb. flour, \ lb. butter ; whip 
the whites into a stiff froth, slightly melt the butter so that it will 
pour out, but do not make it hot ; mix \ oz. powdered cinnamon 
with the flour and the sugar, and then mix the whole together ; 
pour the butter into the whites, add flour, etc., gently, and bake 
the required sizes in a steady oven. 



I. — 20 eggs, 2 lbs. sugar, 2 lbs. butter, 4 lbs. flour, 2 lbs. cur- 
rants, 3 lbs. sultanas, 1 lb. peel, i oz. cream of tartar, \ oz. car- 
bonate soda powdered and sifted with the flour, 1 pint milk. Cream 
the butter and sugar, and mix as usual, place in one or two square 
tins, with edges about 3 inches deep, chopped almonds thickly 
sprinkled on top. This cake must be baked in a cool oven, and 
if baked in one piece will take two hours or more. The tins 
must be papered with white stiff paper. It is usual in lieu of 
square Genoa tins to cut pieces of wood the required height, and 
fasten them on a flat baking-tin, prop them up with pieces of 
brick ; these are called " upsets." Sultana and peel boxes make 
capital baking vessels. 

II. — 3 lbs. butter, 3 lbs. sugar, 4^ lbs. flour, 1 lb. currants, 
5 lbs. sultanas, 30 eggs, 1 oz. powder, 6 drops essence of almonds, 
half a grated nutmeg, 1 lb. peel mixed; prepare as before, 
chopped almonds on top. A seed Genoa can be made with this 
mixture, by adding 2 ozs. caraway seeds, and leaving out the fruit 
and the ounce of powder. 

III. (Good). — 2 lbs. butter, 2 lbs. sugar, 3 lbs. flour, 4 lbs. 
sultanas, i£ lbs. peel, £ grated nutmeg, gill of rum, 1 quart of 
eggs, chopped almonds on top. 

IV. (Bulk Genoa, cheap and good, 7d. lb).— 20 lbs. butter, 20. 
lbs. sugar, 36 lbs. flour, 15 lbs. currants, 15 lbs. sultanas, 4 lbs. 
peel, 21 lbs. of eggs, about 3 quarts of stale milk, \ lb. powder, 
1 oz. mixed spice ; prepare as usual, with or without almonds on top 
to suit price charged. Pine kernels are a good substitute for almondai 



Lemon Cakes. 



Cinnamon Cake for Dessert 



Genoa Cake* 




7 HE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



V. (8d. lb). — 8 lbs. butter, 8 lbs. sugar, 8 lbs. eggs, 
14 lbs. flour, i oz. cream of tartar, i oz. carbonate of soda, 20 lbs. 
jultanas, \ lbs. peel, pint milk, 6 drops essence of spice, 6 drops 
essence of almonds. Mix in usual way. 

Rich Cherry Cake (10d. per pound ) 

2 lbs. butter, 2 lbs. sugar, 2 lbs. eggs, *\ lbs. flour, 1 lb. 
cherries, cut them in halves, \ lb. citron peel, \ oz. ammonia 

- powdered and beaten in with butter and sugar, gill of milk. 

Cocoa-nut Genoa Cakes. 
7 lbs. flour, lbs. sugar, 4 lbs. butter, 2}' lbs. dessicated 
cocoa-nut, 2 ozs. powder, 3 pints eggs (£ pint of wine would be 
an improvement). Beat and mix in all the ingredients the same 
as for Genoa cake, and when in tins thickly cover the top with 
cocoa-nut ; bake carefully in a cool oven. For variety, do not 
cover all the cake or cakes before going into the oven with 
cocoa-nut, but keep one plain, and when that comes out ice it 
with icing made by beating \ lb. sugar with three whites \ when 
beaten sufficiently to put on the cake, stir into the icing 3 ozs. 
cocoa-nut, cover the cake, and while wet, sprinkle some more 
cocoa-nut over it thickly to look like frost. 

Devonshire Luncheon Cakes. 

3 lbs. butter, 3 lbs. sugar, 2 lbs. currants, 2 lbs. sultanas, 30 
eggs, 8 lbs. flour, \ lb. chopped peel, 2 ozs. powder, 3 pints 
milk, pinch of spice, half a grated nutmeg ; sift the powder with 
the flour, cream as usual ; should be baked in a good sound 
oven. 

Alexandra Cakes. 

\ lb' butter, \ lb. lard, f lb. currants, \ lb. lemon peel, 10 ozs. 
brown sugar, f lb. flour, \ oz. vol., 4 drops essence of spice, 
f lb. ground almonds, 8 eggs, cream the butter and lard and vol. 
with the sugar and eggs as usual ; add the other ingredients ; 
bake in a square block, like Genoa cake. 

German Cake* 

2 lbs. butter, 2 lbs. sugar, 2 lbs. eggs, 7 lbs. flour, 5 lbs. cur- 
rants, 1 lb. sultanas, £lb. peel, 3 pints sour milk, \ oz. carbonate 
of soda ; mix as usual, and when in tins put chopped almonds on 
top. 

Sultana Cakes (8d. per pound.) 

if lbs. butter, if lbs. sugar, 3J lbs. flour, 3 lbs. sultanas, 1 lb, 
chopped citron, 1 oz. powder, 1 \ pints of milk, 20 eggs ; cream 
as usual ; when in tin put chopped citron on top. 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



Small Lunch Cakes (cheap). 

i lb. butter, 2 lbs. sugar, 9 lbs. flour, 1 lb. currants, J lb. 
powder, sift with flour, 2 quarts stale milk ; rub the butter and 
flour together on the board, then mix the sugar ; make a bay, 
put in the currants and the milk, mix up quick and light ; weigh 
into small tins as quickly as possible, and bake in a hot oven ; 
dust the tops with white sugar. 

Good Fruit Cake (for Xmas or other uses). 

10 lbs. butter, 10 lbs. sugar, 12 lbs. eggs, 15 lbs. flour, 16 lbs. 
-currants, 16 lbs. sultanas, i oz. spice, 4 lbs. mixed peel, 1 :Oz. 
powder, 1 pint milk. 

Bout Cake. 

Cream i lb. butter, i lb. sugar, and 12 yolks ; add a grated 
lemon rind, 2 oz. ground almond, £ lb. flour ; bake as Genoa, but 
•without almonds on top. 

The Emperor's Cake- 
Soak in milk J lb, of crumbs from rolls of fine bread ; squeeze 
it dry and beat up smooth with 4 ozs. soft butter and 3 ozs. sugar ; 
when smooth add 6 eggs at twice, now add $ lb. of mixed fruit 
(sultanas, currants, peel), 2 ozs. almonds ; bake in buttered tins ; 
when baked dredge with fine sugar. 

Turkish Cake- 

Boil } lb. rice in 1 i pint milk, add 2 ozs. sugar, and 4 yolks of 
•eggs, beat it all quite smooth, add few drops essence of orange or 
roses ; turn out in an edged pan, wash over the yolk of egg, dust 
with fine sugar ; let cool, cut into shapes, put upon a tin about 
an inch thick and bake in a sharp oven a few minutes. 

Almond Sponge Cake* 

1 lb. sugar, 9 eggs, i lb. flour, few drops of essence almonds, 
2 ozs. ground almonds, 1 oz. powder ; whisk the eggs and sugar 
as for sponge cakes, put in essence, and lightly stir in flour ; put 
in small battered moulds or tins ; bake in sound oven. 

American White Cake- 

1 lb. butter, 2 lbs. sugar, 1 lb. whites of eggs, i£ lb. flour, i oz. 
powder ; cream the butter and sugar, well whisk the whites, then 
mix the flour with the baking powder, mix all together lightly, 
bake quickly. This cake can either be make in one large cake 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



161 



and iced white when baked, or made into several round thin cakes 
the size of a small plate; when baked put a. thick coat of icing, 
made with 4 whites, 8 ozs. sugar, beaten for a few minutes and 
made into a thick paste with desiccated cocoanut ; when coated 
place them on top of each other, then make a thin vanilla icing 
of 2 whites, i lb. sugar and 4 drops vanilla essence beaten 
together, add 1 table-spoonful of cold water, and pour over the 
cake. If the cake is not well covered, repeat this, and dry for a 
minute in the oven. Fondant Icing is best for this if you 
have it. 

Princess Cake- 

ij lb. butter, 1 lb. sugar, 1 pint egg whites, 1^ lb. flour, 12 
drops of rose-flower water, and 1 glass of sherry ; cream the butter 
and sugar, and thoroughly beat with them the pint of whites, 
adding a few at a time ; having beaten these very light, put in 
sherry and rose water and stir the flour in lightly ; put this into 
buttered and papered tins, and bake carefully. These cakes are 
usually iced and ornamented. 

Savarin Cakes. 

Set a sponge with \ lb sugar, 1 oz. yeast, \ pint warm milk, and 
\ lb. flour. Let this rise for two hours, then beat into it until 
jquite smooth \ lb. fresh butter, 4 eggs, \ oz. powdered salt, 2 oz. 
finely chopped peel and \ lb. more flour. Let this prove or rise 
for 1 hour, then well butter one or two moulds, cover them inside 
with chopped almonds, tie a buttered paper round the outside, 
to prevent it coming over ; put in the paste ; let it rise ; bake in a 
moderate oven. This cake usually forms the base for another 
xiish, which has some liqueur poured over it after small holes have 
been pricked in it with a skewer. 

Caledonia Cakes- 

1 lb. sugar, 1} lb. butter, 1 lb. eggs, 1 \ lb. cornflour, 1 oz. 
•powder ; rub 6 pieces of loaf sugar on the rind of a lemon ; also 
mince fine J of a rind and 2 ozs. candied peel ; crush the lumps 
of sugar with the lemon zest on them, mix it with the other ; and 
cream butter, sugar, and eggs in the usual way. Mix in the flour 
and peel, and if at all firm, add a little milk, put a spoonful in 
patty-pans and bake in a good oven. 

Oswego Cakes* 

1 lb. butter, 1 lb. sugar, \\ lb. eggs, 1 grated nutmeg, \\ lb. 
Oswego cornflour, vol. the size of a pea ; beat up with the butter 
cream, and bake as usual in a moderate oven. 



Digitized by 



162 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



Cinnamon Cake- 



^ Mix \ lb. sugar, \ lb. butter, \ lb. flour, \ oz. powdered 
cinnamon with the whites of eight eggs beaten to a froth ; add one 
glass of rum ; mix all together and bake in a steady oven. 



8 eggs, 2 ozs. sugar, \ pint cream, i macaroon powdered, 
ozs. cornflour, 2 ozs. butter, 4 drops of essence of vanilla ; warm- 
the cream ; dissolve the butter in it ; mix in all the other ingre- 
dients, and half fill well-buttered dariole mould with the batter, 
and bake in a steady oven. 



Cream as usual 1 lb. butter, 1 lb. sugar, \\ lbs. eggs ; add, 
when creamed, 1 lb. ground rice, \ lb. cornflour, and 1 oz. of 
baking powder. Weigh into tins ; bake in moderate oven. 



1 lb. ground rice, \ lb. fine flour, 1 lb. sugar, 12 eggs, the 
yolks of 6 more, 6 drops of essence of almonds, 1 gill of Jamaica 
rum ; put all the eggs into a pan and stand in a little warm water, 
beat them with the sugar until they are light, then add the other 
ingredients ; mix them together lightly ; put into buttered cake-tins- 
and bake in cool oven. 



1 lb. sugar (icing), \ lb. butter, whites of 12 eggs, table-spoon- 
ful of rose water, 10 ozs. fine flour, \ oz. of powder ; cream the 
butter and sugar, whisk the whites to a stiff ^now ; add the flour 
to the creamed butter, and the whites and flavouring at the same 
time ; mix all lightly together ; put in buttered and papered 
small moulds ; bake in a cool oven. 



1 oz. yeast, \ lb. Hungarian flour ; mix with warm milk into a 
soft dough, and prove for two or three hours ; rub 1 lb. fresh 
butter into 1 lb. flour, and 1 lb. eggs ; work these into paste, and 
when the dough has well risen, mix them altogether. Mince 
and mix 2 ozs. candied citron peel, 2 ozs. sultanas, and J lb. 
stoned raisins ; butter a mould, half fill, let it rise, and then bake, 
in a moderate oven. 



Dariole Dessert Cakes. 



Dessert Bice Cakes- 



Cupid's Cakes- 



Zephyr Cake. 



Baba- 




THE BAKERS GUIDE.. 



163 



Twelfth Cake. 



2 lbs. butter, 2 lbs. sugar, lbs. eggs, 2\ lbs. flour, \ lb. 
chopped almonds, \ lb. peel, 3 lbs. sultanas, glass of brandy, 1 
nutmeg, \ oz. cinnamon ; cream and bake in the usual way. 
These must be baked in well papered tins in a very cool oven. 

To ice Twelfth Cakes. — Ice and ornament as follows : 1 lb. of 
icing-sugar, whites of 3 or 4 small eggs, enough tartaric acid to 
cover a threepenny-piece its own thickness. (This quantity will 
cover the tops of four good-sized cakes.) Put this in a clean dry 
basin, beat with a wooden spoon for about ten minutes, and it 
will then be ready for use. Place upon the top of the cake 
enough sugar to thinly cover it, and with a pallette-knife work 
it from side to side, always keeping one side of the knife flat upon 
the sugar ; do not take it on" or turn over, or scrape the cake. 
After the top is well and evenly covered, draw the knife off with 
one sweep, and draw it round the side to gather off the loose 
sugar that has run over. Usually the first attempt at icing leaves 
the surface a little rough ; lift the cake and knock it gently upon 
the table, which will cause some of the ridges left by the knife to 
fill up ; put a frill of white tissue-paper round the side, and one 
of pink, a little narrower, over it, so that the white shows a little 
above and below the pink. Ornament the top with twelfth-cake 
ornaments. 

" Coffee-house Tough " (or " Batch ") Tea-cakes. 

are made by breaking 4 lbs. of bread dough into twelve pieces, 
rolled round, and with the rolling pin pinned out to about 3^ 
inches in diameter. Place them upon a baking-tin, prove as 
light as possible in the steam cupboard or trough with hot bread 
or boiling water, and bake quickly (like muffins, not too much) 
in a good sound oven. They are usually toasted* 



Whip 8 eggs, mix into three quarts of milk, add 1 oz. of 
salaeratus, \ oz. salt ; make them into a stiff batter with fine flour 
or cornflour, and bake in a quick oven, in small buttered tins. 



Cut a Madeira or a Savoy cake that has been baked in a plain 
mould into slices, spread them with apricot jam, place them upon 
the top of each other in their former shape, ice this with icing in 
the usual way, but flavoured with lemon, and made with the 



Griddle Breakfast-cakes- 



Cadogan Cakes. 




164 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



whole eggs, so that the yolk will give a slightly yellow tinge. 
Before the icing sets, cut out a number of small leaves, or 
diamond-shaped pieces of angelica and dried fruit, and place 
them evenly in rotation round the outer edge. 



4 lb. sugar. \ lb. butter, 5 eggs, 10 ozs. flour, small glass of 
wine, and % lb. dried cherries. Beat the eggs, butter, and sugar 
as usual, add flour and wine ; mix lightly all together, butter 
some very small moulds, and two-thirds fill them ; stand them in 
a large cake or bread tin, bake in a cool oven ; when they are 
done, they can be served either ornamepted or plain. 



1 lb. ground sweet almonds, 1 lb. sugar, made into a stiff clear 
paste with yolks of eggs. When the paste is quite smooth, make 
it into small fancy shapes, such as garters, knots, rings, crowns, 
Prince of Wales' feathers, etc. If you have the blocks, and the 
mixture is inclined to stick, dust the blocks and board with finely 
powdered sugar mixed equal parts with maize starch. Melt a 
little gum arabic and sugar, wash some over with it and dip into 
nonpariels : ornament with neatly cut small pieces of angelica 
and lemon peel ; pipe with pink and white icing, etc. ; lay wafer- 
paper upon a baking-tin, put the biscuits upon it, but do not let 
them touch each other ; stand them on one side for an hour or 
two in a warm place — a day will not hurt them ; when well 
hardened, bake in a brisk oven very carefully. 



2 lbs. ground sweet almonds, mix with 1 lb. sugar, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of water ; place them in a stewpan on the hot plate, 
and stir continually until the mixture is quite hot, and runs off 
the spoon ; pour into a pan, allow to cool a little, then add 1 lb. 
sugar, 1 oz. gumdragon, dissolved in a little water and strained, 
and the juice of 2 lemons Beat this mixture for ten minutes, 
then turn it out upon a slab dusted with fine sugar ; divide into 
three parts, and colour each according to taste with cochineal for 
red, saffron for yellow, spinach for green, etc. ; make into shapes 
upon wafer paper, dry,, and bake. 



10 eggs, \ lb. sugar, 1 oz. of very finely-chopped lemon peel, 
£ lb Vienna flour, and i gill rose water ; whip the eggs into a 



Small Dessert-cakes- 



Almond Rout Cakes- 



Almond Paste* or Bout Cakes- 



Gateau. 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 165 



strong froth, and then carefully stir in the other ingredients ; put 
it into a well-buttered tin or mould, and bake in a cool oven. 
This is usually glazed with chocolate or other fondant, 

Neapolitan Cake. 

\ lb. ground sweet almonds, \ lb. sugar, \ lb. butter, 10 ozs. 
flour, 2 ozs. finely-chopped lemon peel, yolks of 6 eggs, and a 
table-spoonful of orange-flower water. Cream the butter, sugar, 
and eggs ; add the other ingredients, thoroughly mix, and leave it 
in a cool place for an hour to harden ; then roll the paste out 
i in. thick, stamp it into rounds ; bake them carefully, then place 
apricot jam between two rounds, and ornament to taste with pink 
and white icing, or sifted sugar (pink). 

School Cake. 

This mixture will also do for tea-festivals and school-treats ; is 
usually retailed at 6d. per lb., and will generally give satisfaction. 
Sugar, 3 $ lbs., 3 lbs. butter, 1 lb. chopped peel (if peel is chopped 
fine it is much more economical, as it will go farther and flavour 
many more mouthfuls), 12 or 14 lbs. sultanas, 10 lbs. flour, £ lb. 
powder, 20 eggs, 3^ pints milk (sour milk will do very well), and 
£ oz. good spice. The same mixture for seed cakes. Omit fruit 
and add 2 ozs. seeds. Cream butter, sugar, and eggs as usual. 
Add spice, fruit, peel ; give a turn or two just to cover the fruit from 
the flour, and then add the flour and the milk, and quickly mix 
the whole. If the quantity of milk does not make it quite moist 
enough use J pint more. Put the mixture into tins, but not too 
thick. Flat cakes, about two inches thick when they are put into 
the oven, are best. Be sure and bake well, but do not burn. 

Queen (or Heart Cakes). 

& lb. butter, \ lb. sugar, } lb. eggs, 1 lb. flour, i lb. currants, 
piece of volatile size of a small bean, and £ gill milk. Cream 
the butter, sugar, and eggs in the usual way \ powder the volatile 
and beat it up with the butter, etc., then add the flour and 
currants, and mix lightly. When filling heart cake tins (which 
should be well buttered), spread the mixture from the middle 
towards the sides, leaving the middle slightly hollowed, so that as 
the mixture begins to melt, it will run back into the hollow, and 
this will consequently be longer baking ; and the sides being 
already set, the middle will be forced up, and break open into 
what bakers call a cauliflower head. 

Digestive Cake, etc. 

3^ lbs. eggs, 3 lbs. sugar, 2\ lbs. flour, \ lb. butter, 3 drops 
essence of lemon, and enough powdered cinnamon to cover a 



Digitized by 



1 66 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



threepenny piece its own thickness. Whip the eggs and sugar 
into a light batter, the same as for sponge cakes, and just before 
giving the last few strokes, add the lemon essence and cinnamon. 
Partially melt the butter and whip it into a light froth. Add the 
flour to the batter, and commence stirring it in ; when about half 
mixed, add the creamed butter gradually, at the same time con- 
tinuing the mixing-in of the flour. Great care must be taken at 
this stage, as over-mixing will cause heaviness ; as soon as the 
flour appears to be incorporated, turn it gently out into a tin with 
deep edges, the same as for Genoa cake, and bake in a cool oven. 
This cake, when cut, resembles sponge cake, is of a rich yellow 
hue and light texture ; it can be served plain, or cut into shapes, 
with apricot preserve, and ornamented, etc. 



i pint milk, i pint water, 6 ozs. sugar, £ lb. butter, 2 ozs. yeast, 
3 eggs, and 5 lbs. flour ; ferment the same as for buns, and when 
the dough is ready, weigh into pieces of \ lb. or. less, mould them 
round, put them upon tins, with or without hoops around them, 
prove, and bake. 



I. (Seed), — This is a good luncheon or tea cake : 2 lbs. butter, 
2\ lbs. castor sugar, 2\ lbs. eggs, 6£ lbs. flour (prepared), 2 ozs. 
caraway seeds, 3 pints milk, J lb. peel, chopped fine. Cream 
butter, sugar, and eggs as for pound cakes, then add peel and 
seeds, giving it a turn or two ; put in the flour and milk, stir 
rapidly and thoroughly, and as soon as the flour is incorporated, 
transfer to tins previously prepared, and as quickly as possible 
put into the oven, or the effervescence which has begun will 
quickly subside, and the cake will not be so light as it otherwise 
would be. This cake, being very light and not' over rich, does 
not keep long. It should be eaten quite fresh. Fourteen 
ounces for " 6d" 

II. (Currant). — Mixture same as for seed, with the addition of 
2 lbs. sultanas, 1 lb. currants, \ lb. peel ; these ingredients should 
be added before the flour. Omit the seeds ; add a few drops, 
of the essence of spice. 



are easily made, and are very suitable for bulk orders and 
cheap school treats. The following quantities will make a good 
cake to be multiplied to the quantity required : — To every 4 lbs. 



Tea-cakes or Sally Luns. 



Balmoral Cake. 



Dough Cakes 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



167 



ordinary bread dough, rub in \ lb. butter, f lb. sugar, 2 eggs, a 
little spice, gill of hot water, 3 lbs. fruit, currants or sultanas, or 
mixed. Do not put the fruit in, until the dough.and other 
ingredients have been thoroughly rubbed together quite smooth. 
The fault with these cakes is, that they do not usually get suffici- 
ent mixing, and patches of dough spoil both taste and appear- 
ance ; to obviate this, place the dough upon the board with the 
butter, eggs, sugar, spice, and hot water, and then with both 
hands tear the dough to pieces, rubbing at the same time until 
smooth ; then add the fruit and lightly mix it in ; do not rub it 
when the fruit is in or it will be smashed, and make the cake 
look very unsightly. When mixed, put into tins, and prove well 
before baking ; bake in a cool oven. 

Sanitas Cake, 

2 lbs. flour, i lb. butter, \ lb. sugar, 2 eggs, 1 oz. powder, pinch 
of spice, % pint milk, and i\ oz. of liquorice powder ; make up as 
other cakes, weigh into small sizes, bake in a quick oven. They 
are suitable for children, being a mild aperient. 

Tottenham Cake. 

4^1bs. flour, Jib. powder, fib. margarine, fib. currants, if lb. 
sugar, rub all well together ; wet up with water ; spread 1 inch 
thick on a flat tin, with piece of wood across each end, and bake 
in quick oven. When baked, ice over thinly with water icing 
or fondant, which is cheaper and better, excepting the labour. 
Usually there is some soiled left, which will do for the common 
work. 

Trocadero Cakes* 

ijlb. butter, i£lb. sugar, 2 lbs. eggs, 2 lbs. flour, 1 lb. sul- 
tanas, i lb. citron peel, J lb. half dried cherries, J oz. ground 
ginger, mix and bake carefully as for pound cakes. When cold, 
niask with the palest green fondant, pipe the outer part of top 
with white icing ; group tastefully bright drained or glace pre- 
served fruit in the centre, and cover the side with finely chopped 
pistachio kernels. 

Seedless Caraway Cakes- 

Take 1 lb. flour, 1 teaspoonful of Bush's Seedless Caraway 
Crystals, % lb. butter, 10 ozs. of castor sugar, 2 J lb. eggs, i gill of 
milk, and 1 teaspoonful of baking powder. Butter the cake tin 
thoroughly first of all, then line it with buttered paper. The 
buttered side to be next to the cake mixture. Cream the sugar and 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



butter together in a basin, that is to say, work the two ingredients 
into each other with the hand or wooden spoon, until the mixture 
is smooth and creamy. Then beat one egg in. The flour, cara- 
way powder, and baking powder should be passed through a 
wire sieve together. Add half of this mixed flour to the mix- 
ture in the basin and stir it well in, then add the other egg, 
beating it in the same manner as before, and lastly, the re- 
mainder of the flour. Turn this into the prepared cake tin and 
bake in a moderate oven about an hour and a-quarter. Some 
people like to see some raisins or sultanas, in which case a few 
can be added during the mixing. Of course, the proportion of 
sugar, eggs, and butter may be varied according to taste. 

Aberdeen Cake* 

3 lbs. flour, 2 lbs. butter, 2 lbs. sugar, 1 lb. chopped citron, 
1 lb. cut dried cherries, good pinch of nutmeg, and 22 eggs 
cream the butter and sugar in the usual way ; add and beat in 
the eggs, two at a time, mix in the flour, and then the fruit. 
Weigh two pounds into oval or special diamond shaped frames ; 
when baked, draw the tins off without breaking the collar, which 
should be of good stiff white paper, and pour enough fondant 
upon the top to cover it, some pink, some white ; place glace 
fruits in middle of top, and four opposite diamonds of 
angelica. 

Simnel Cake* 

Mixture : 1 lb, butter, 12 ozs. sugar, 10 eggs, 8 ozs. ground 
almonds, 1 lb. sultanas, 4 ozs. finely chopped citron, a good 
pinch each of ground cinnamon and mixed spice, the juice of 3 
lemons and 2 lb. flour. Cream the butter and sugar in the usual 
way, add and beat in the eggs, then add the spice, fruit, almonds, 
and lastly, lemon juice and flour. Weigh into size required and 
bake in a cool oven. When baked, cover with a thin layer of 
almond paste, made by mixing castor sugar and ground almonds 
into a smooth stiff paste with eggs; dust the almond top lightly with 
castor sugar, and place round the outer edge a border of small crys- 
tallized fruit, laying in the interstices of the inside of the border 
silver dragees ; it will be necessary to fasten the crystallized fruit 
on with icing sugar. Generally these cakes should be baked in 
well papered hoops, with a stiff white paper collar, standing well 
up, and be sent out with the collar on, or in its place a frill or 
silvered paper. The Simnel is an old-fashioned cake, consequently 
currants are freely used in it ; but currants do not suit the taste 
of good class buyers, and therefore sultanas are substituted, a 
fruit always in favour. 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



169 



Hope in Cakes- 



Seed cakes are those most frequently attacked by ropiness. 
The primary cause is a species of ferment that is set up within 
the cake, and this ferment is brought about by the presence of 
too much moisture, and also by a very cold tough mixing, which 
makes it slimy and tough. The caraway seeds are the con- 
tributory factor ; they have a peculiar mucilaginous nature which 
lends itself to support any such ferment, especially when in the 
presence of such congenial allies as eggs and milk — and these in 
only a partially cooked condition. Ropiness will seldom occur 
in cakes that are properly made and properly baked ; and if you 
trace any tendency in that direction, keep your mixture drier and 
bake it more ; also, if it is seed, and absolutely necessary to keep 
them some time, lessen the number of seeds to the lowest 
possible quantity. 



The ripening of cakes, like the ripening of fruits after picking, 
is a process of natural decomposition. The moisture inside the 
cake, and the " life in the air *' outside, act upon the saccharine 
matters and set up a species of ferment, which degrade the other 
constituents ; and as the decomposition becomes general and 
active, it attacks any porous or soluble matter with which it is in 
contact. Up to a certain stage, this ripening is good, and in fruity 
cakes necessary. To arrest this ripening, blending, or decom- 
position, is to mar the flavour and perfection of the cake. As 
in " pickling " eggs and preserving provisions, the arresting by 
chemical means of the natural law usually result in loss, or partial 
loss of flavour and bouquet. When it is necessary to store iced 
cakes, the cakes should be iced as soon as it is thoroughly cold, 
before the air — or what is commonly called air — interferes with 
it, and sets up this decay. In the case of bride cakes, if the 
almond icing were brought down over the side of the cake, that 
would lengthen the time before the juice would attack the icing 
sugar. To prevent this entirely, some insoluble matter that is 
less subject to natural decay must be interposed between cake 
and sugar. It is a great preservative to the outer icing sugar to 
wash or varnish the cake with a solution of gum or gelatine, with 
lemon juice or proof spirit ; brush it over the cake, and let it 
dry ; when iced, keep in a dry place. 

Cake Ornamentation.— Icing and Piping. 

To learners in icing and piping, I would recommend the fol- 
lowing plan ; it will make very good practice, and is at the same 



The Discoloration of Iced Cakes. 



M 




170 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



time cheap and convenient : Get some firm lard and work it up 
lightly with a little flour, and then with the ordinary icing pipes 
or paper tubes, ornament a cake tin, turned bottom upwards ; 
it can be scraped off and used again and again. It is not always 
possible to get practice with real cakes and sugar, and practice 
you must have ; for if ever the old adage was true, that " Prac- 
tice makes perfect," it is so in this case. Icing pipes are sold by 
most confectioners' toolmakers from sixpence each, bags and 
nozzles ninepence to a shilling, though paper in the hands of our 
artists in sugar can be made to accomplish great things ; but to 
make the larger stars, etc., pipes are indispensable. To make 
paper tubes or pipes, use good paper — a special paper is sold for 
the purpose and is very good ; cut through a small square from 
corner to corner to form a triangle shape ; fold this up in the 
form of a cone like the small sugar paper '* cups " the grocer puts 
the sugar in ; fold it to a fine point, and cut the point off 
according to the size of the tube you wish to use ; put the tube 
and icing in ; fold down the mouth when the icing is put in, to 
prevent it squeezing out when the paper is pressed. Use the 
thumb on the top to press the sugar out, and not the guiding 
fingers at the bottom. Keep the fingers clean, but do not lick 
them with tongue. 



i lb. of icing sugar, whites of 3 eggs (during the time when 
eggs are dear icing powder is a cheap and good substitute for 
whites of eggs, or if in such a fix that neither of them can be 
obtained, slowly dissolve i oz. of gelatine or isinglass in a gill of 
water, and when quite dissolved, add a pinch of tartartic acid or 
4 drops of acetic acid, and beat in the sugar in the usual way 
until stiff enough) ; put in a clean dry basin, and beat until it 
stands in any given shape (about ten minutes will do this) ; it 
will then be ready for use. If required coloured, the colouring 
must be beaten into it. Put upon the top of the cake as much 
sugar as will cover it all over (Fig. i), or only the top as desired, 
and with a palette knife large enough to cover the diameter of 
the top, work it from side to side (Fig. 2), always keeping, one 
side of the knife upon the sugar. Do not take it off or turn over, 
or scrape the cake. After the top is well and evenly covered, 
draw the knife off with one sweep. Usually the first attempt at 
icing leaves the surface a little rough ; lift the cake and knock it 
gently upon the table, which will cause some of the ridges left 
by the knife to fill up ; and if the sides are to be sugared also, 
let the sugar run over, and put the knife round once roughly to 
cover the cake, and then give one even sweep right round the 



To Ice Cakes- 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 171 

cake (Fig. 3). Do not take the knife off until the whole circle 
is made, or it will show the mark. The knife should not be flat 
upon the side of cake, but slanting, so that it will carry the 




Fig. 2. 



excess sugar before it right off at the finish of the stroke ; put a 
frill of white tissue-paper round the side, and one of pink, a 
little narrower, over it, so that the white shows a little above and 
below the pink. Ornament the top with twelfth-cake ornaments, 
or the ornaments desired according to the use to which the cake 
is to be put. Wedding cakes should be all white ; birthday, 
christening, or other table cakes, should be coloured. Don't 
make the colours too glaring and deep, that is coarse and vulgar ; 
but delicately tinted. Use pipes thus (Fig. 4), or use the thread 
pipe as you would a writing pencil. A modern and much nicer 
form of ornamentation is to glaze with fondant sugar, and then 
decorate with glace fruits, angelica, etc. Royal icing to eat is 
an abomination. 



Digitized by 



172 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



When icing cakes use a cake-turntable having a small base 
with swivel, upon which a large circular table,' about nine inches 
in diameter, is fastened. The cake is placed upon this, and is 
turned round as the operator wishes. If not come-at-able, use a 
round cake-tin turned bottom upwards : it should be slightly 
smaller than the cake to be iced, to allow the knife to go round 
the side. 



Note. — In Cut 3 the knife, by a mistake of the engraver, is placed 
backwards in the hand ; the thumb should be nearest the blade ; and 
in Fig. 4 the thumb should be upon the top of the bag. 



For red or pink, carmine or cochineal. — To prepare cochineal, 
boil for five minutes % oz. cochineal powdered, with $ pint cold 
water, £ oz. alum, 1 oz. sugar ; take off fire, throw in J oz. cream 
of tartar ; stir well ; when cold, bottle, and cork for future use. 
For green, either pound spinach leaves, press out juice, and boil 
a minute before bottling to preserve it ; or put them in a little 
water (to keep from burning), and boil until soft, rub them through 
a fine sieve, and bottle for use. For brown, boil 2 ozs. sugar just 
moistened with water, keep stirring ; and as soon as it begins to 
colour, draw on one side, and let it slowly brown and dry (about 
an hour), when nearly black (but do not burn) put in a bottle, 
and cork. When required, moisten with hot water, if dry. 
Chocolate, melted, will also make a nice brown. Colourings, 




Fig. 3. 



Fig. 4. 



Colouring for Cakes. 




THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



173 



flavourings, or essences can be obtained in paste and powder 
cheaply, and in great variety, and are much brighter and better 
for the purpose. 



\ lb. ground sweet almonds, 1 lb. sugar; mix them, and 
make them hot in the oven ; then mix them into firm paste with 
eggs, and put upon top of cake quite smooth ; let it dry for a 
few hours before putting on sugar icing. If made firm, it will be 
dry enough to put the white icing on as soon as done; roll it 
with a rolling-pin the size of the top of the cake ; lay on and 
level with rolling-pin ; also lay the rolling-pin perpendicular 
against the side, roll it round the cake ; this will square up the 
rough edges. 

Pink dry sugar for ornamenting is made by dropping a few 
drops of carmine upon sifted loaf sugar dust or large crystals, and 
rubbing it between the hands until the colour is evenly distri- 
buted, and deep as desired ; then dry it. Use the sugar either 
coarse or fine, to suit work. 



There are several modern recipes for paste and pastry. The 
baker has vied with the cook to produce something novel, and 
many modern recipes are here given. There is the old puff 
paste, for which I will give the three or four standard recipes. 
There is also the plain short paste with and without sugar, 
which is used for lining patty-pans, or tart dishes, where it is 
necessary that the paste should retain its shape and not puff 
up, so that the filling that is placed in them may not be dis- 
placed in the oven ; and, therefore, throughout the recipes for 
cheese cakes, custards, etc, requiring a passive crust, I will merely 
say short paste, leaving it to the taste of the workers to make any 
variations they think fit, not forgetting that puff paste, after it has 
been rolled and cut out twice or thrice, ceases to puff and has 
become short, and is therefore a very useful short crust for 
ordinary purposes where the demands of the trade are small ; 
the cuttings rolled up and pinned out (allowing a minute 
or two for the paste to recover its pliability) will do very well. 
About the various fillings, cheese cakes, etc., it will be needful 
also to say a few words to save a great deal of re-writing in different 
quantities of the same mixture. The new fillings are really, in the 
majority of cases, simply good cake mixtures called by all sorts 
of fanciful names, the recipes for which would take up more space 
than we can afford. Nor is it necessary that they should be given ; 



Almond Icing for Bride Cakes- 



PASTE AND PASTRY. 




174 



IBE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



most persons with average intelligence will be able to grasp the 
principle of their make up when I say that a good Madeira 
mixture, light and rich, or even weights of butter, sugar, eggs, and 
flour, with a pinch of baking powder mixed as for pound cakes, 
is the filling of these goods. These cake mixtures form good 
bases upon which to build a number of nice things, by adding 
flavourings, ground almonds, etc. In the directions for pufffaste 
I have only spoken of the use of butters for the purpose, but 
that is not from any prejudice against the use of margarine and 
other mixtures ; on the contrary, given that the mixture is of first 
quality, and made specially for puff paste making, I would always 
prefer to use it in place of the sloppy, salt stuff or the foreign 
rank stuff that is sold as pure butter. 



Use equal quantities of butter and flour, and mix as here 
directed ; take an eighth part of the butter and rub it into the 
whole of the flour, using enough cold water, with a pinch of cream 
of tartar in it, to make this into a soft dough ; press this dough 
out, dust with flour, and fold it up several times, until it is tough 
and springy ; let it stand for two or three minutes to become 
pliable, and then with the rolling-pin roll it out to about a 
quarter of an inch thick, keeping the sides and ends as square 
and straight as possible ; then roll the remainder of the butter 
into a square flat piece, not quite so large as the paste (about 
two-thirds), lightly dust it with flour, and lay it upon the dough ; 
fold the uncovered part of the dough over the butter, so as to 
completely envelope it. Now dust the board with flour, lay the 
paste upon it, lay the rolling-pin upon the paste, and lightly roll 
it backwards, forwards, and crossways, until the paste is about a 
quarter of an inch thick, or thin enough to fold up easily without 
breaking the outer skin of the dough ; press the rolling-pin evenly 
upon the paste, and do not jerk, drag, pull the paste, or allow 
the butter to break through and stick to the board or pin. When 
rolled enough, bring the two opposite ends over to meet each 
other upon the top and in the middle of the paste ; lightly dust 
and roll out and fold again in the same manner ; dust with flour, 
cover with a cloth, and put away in a cold place for an hour to 
allow the butter to become firm and the dough pliable. Then 
flour the board, roll out and fold again ; this will make the third 
folding. ' Repeat these foldings and rollings three times 
more, making six in all. The paste is now ready for use, viz., 
for cutting into tartlets, vol-au-vents, French pastry, etc., and all 
pastry that is required to be very light and flakey. Cut with a 
sharp cutter, and do not touch the edge when picking up or 



Puff Paste. 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



washing over. After the paste has received the sixth roll out, it 
will, upon every further rolling, become less flakey and be more 
suitable for fruit-tarts, etc. 

The foregoing directions for pastry-making will meet all ordin- 
ary needs ; but there are certain points, such as the use of soft 
butter and the extreme fluctuations of temperature, that have so 
much to do with the making of good puff paste, that a few 
explanatory remarks are absolutely necessary to guard the learner 
against those frequent failures and disappointments which in- 
evitably follow upon carelessness or want of knowledge. For 
instance, sometimes the summer is intensely hot, often reaching 
105?, and all ordinary instructions would, in such circumstances, 
be insufficient to enable people to turn out goods in a workman- 
like manner. Butter is reduced to a state bordering upon oil, 
and everything depends upon the care with which the butter 
is prepared beforehand, the gentle handling, lightness of touch, 
and the rapidity with which the paste is worked off. This 
extreme heat being followed by a sharp bout of severe frost, all 
the previous conditions are naturally reversed, the hard frozen 
butter has to be well worked down, and the paste to receive 
more rolling. We give a few precepts about the preparation of 
butter, the use of ice, and the cause of ' tough,' 4 short,' or * flinty ' 
pastry : — 

In Hot Weather 

choose a good quality butter, without moisture or loose salt, or a 
good mixture of fats ; have it cut into a square piece direct from the 
tub, or package, and do not handle or pat it. Put it into the re- 
frigerator ; failing a refrigerator, place it upon ice or iced water. 
When the butter is set firm, dust with flour ; put upon a board and 
flatten it out to the size required to be covered by paste ; put it 
away again upon a board until it is firm and ready for use. When 
the butter is firm, wet up the flour with iced water with a pinch 
of cream of tartar in it, and mix as directed ; be careful to keep 
the paste from sticking, and do not cover with loose flour. If there 
are signs of the butter coming through, only fold and roll one fold 
at a time, and put the paste away near ice for a few minutes 
each time, until the six foldings are completed. When the 
butter is soft and weak, ice should always be used ; but if firm, 
*nd weather cold, it will not be necessary. 

The cause of tough flinty pastry is insufficient rolling : the 
butter, if firm and hard, will, unless well rolled in, remain in 
layers, and when the paste is put into the oven, these layers 
will lift the paste and cause it to be flakey ; but the butter, not 
having been thoroughly incorporated with the flour, will be 
liberated by the heat of the oven— in other words, boil out. 



Digitized by 



i 7 6 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



This will cause the paste to be flinty, and although flakey while 
hot, it will, when cold and exposed to the air, become tough. 
In hot weather the converse is the case. The butter is soft 
and easily amalgamates with the flour, and the resulting pastry 
is short and rich. When the butter is in this condition, great 
care will make the best of it ; but if used in its soft state it is 
impossible to make satisfactory light goods from it. More or less 
rolling is of little consequence, the great point to be observed 
is the preparation of the butter some time before using— the 
day before, if possible. 

You may not always be able to obtain ice in summer ; if 
not, use cold spring water, or as cold as you can get it, 
and put an ounce of powerful saltpetre in it, and stand the 
butter in that over night. In very cold weather the butter 
will be ordinarily very hard, and if put upon the paste in 
that state will break through ; to make it workable put it upon 
the pasteboard, and work it down slightly, but do not make it too 
soft. If the butter is salt as well as firm, work it down in a 
pail of water and well wash it. After handling, make into the 
size required, and put away for an hour or so to recover it9 
tenacity. If you are making a large piece of paste, when finished 
rolling lay it by, cover with a cloth, and cut from it as required. 
Some makers prefer not giving the last fold to the whole piece, 
but cut a piece from the bulk, roll it out, and fold each piece. 
There is this advantage: you can thus make your pieces flakey, 
or partly so, or solid, as you may need, for the kind of tarts, 
tartlets, patties, etc. Tartlets, to prevent waste, should be cut 
out in two pieces, roll the paste half the usual thickness, cut out 
two pieces, stamp the middle out of one of them with a smaller 
cutter, and lay it upon the top of the other, having washed over 
the under one to make them stick together. When you wash 
pastry, be careful not to wash the edge, as it spoils the appear- 
ance, besides preventing the proper rising. In pastry, when the 
middle has to come out, cut or mark the piece to be taken out 
with a cutter, dock the piece with a skewer, knife, or fork, and 
when baked remove it by first running a penknife round it, then 
lift it up. Use as hot an oven in the baking as possible, 
without burning or undue coloration. 

In the baking of pastry, the heat of the oven should be 
regulated according to the article intended to be baked. Light 
paste requires a moderately quick oven. If the oven be too hot, 
the articles will be coloured, or appear to be done, before they 
are baked enough, and if then taken out of the oven, instead 
of retaining their puffed-up appearance, they immediately fall 
and become flat. On the contrary, a cool oven will prevent 
them rising to the proper extent, and having a nice colour* 




THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



i77 



Tarts or puffs that are iced (or washed over with egg, and pow- 
dered sugar dredged over them, and then sprinkled with 
water), require a cooler oven than those that are not iced, for 
the oven if too hot will scorch or catch the icing, and discolour 
the goods. Leaving the oven door open will sometimes remedy 
this evil ; but the goods should not be too near the mouth of the 
oven in this case. Pastry, when soaked or baked sufficiently, 
can be handled or slid about the baking-tins, or lifted from the 
patty pans without breaking, if properly and sufficiently baked. 
Good pastry requires to be placed on clean tins, of in patty-pans, 
without using butter or grease of any kind. 

To Ice Tarts and Pastry, etc. 

Make a wash with two whites of eggs to \ pint of water. Put 
the whites into the water, and then whisk it ; if the whites are 
whisked before going into the water, they will not mix freely, but 
will settle as a froth upon the top of the water. Dip a paste- 
brush into this liquid, and lightly wash over the pastry ; then 
thickly dredge over it some castor-sugar, and sprinkle with the 
wash. Do not put on too much wash, or it may run off and 
disfigure the goods. If the dredging, etc., is carefully managed, 
a thick coating of frosted or glazed sugar will be produced. If f 
the sugar is put on thin, the heat of the oven will quickly melt 
and brown it, giving it the semblance of a varnish. Therefore, 
according to the desired appearance of the goods should be 
apportioned the quantity of added sugar. 

The question whether to ice pastry before or after putting into 
the oven is dependent upon the size and weight of the article to 
be baked and the heat of the oven it is baked in. If the pastry 
is small, and the oven not too hot, then, as in the case of 
Coventrys and articles of that size, they can be iced before trans- 
ference to the oven. But care is always necessary in baking 
pastry that has been iced previousiy, because the sugar browns 
and burns very easily. If the oven be cool, fruit pies may like- 
wise be sugared before going in; but with a hot oven, large pastry 
or pies should be partially baked before icing. In the latter case, 
if the articles be taken out before the pastry is set, there will be 
danger of its collapsing and becoming heavy. Allow the paste 
to become set before moving. 

A very nice icing is made by whipping whites of eggs to a froth, 
and with a brush laying it over the paste, which is then to be 
covered thickly with sugar and sprinkled with water. 

To make a Vol-au-vent 

As soon as the puff has received the last turn, roll it out 
to about half an inch in thickness, and then with the vol-au-vent 



Digitized by 



i 7 8 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



cutter cut out a single piece. Roll out the remainder much 
thinner, and with the same cutter stamp out a piece to form a 
bottom \ then with a cutter about half the size of the first one 
stamp the middle out of the thickest piece cut out first, slightly 
damp the thin bottom piece, and put the large oval ring upon it, 
carefully fitting it all round. When it is properly attached, place 
upon a baking-tin and bake in a good sound oven. The piece 
that was cut out from the top should be rolled a little flatter or 
thinner, washed over, and some folded leaves or other paste 
ornaments put upon the top, and baked. This will do for a 
cover for the vol-au-vent 



i£lb. flour, i lb. butter, J oz. cream of tartar, J oz carbonate of 
soda. Put the cream, soda, and about 2 ozs. of butter, rub 
them well together, and make a bay; add enough water to 
make a light springy paste, make it as tough as possible ; let it 
lie five minutes to recover, and then add the butter, and work 
off as before directed. 



is made by adding 3 or 4 yolks of eggs to 1 lb. butter, 1 lb. flour. 
The yolks are added with the water and made into a light dough, 
and rolled out as usual. 

Short Paste* 

Rub i lb. or f lb. butter into 1 lb. flour ; wet into a pliable 
paste with water, and work down quite smooth. 



This paste is used for fruit and other sweet goods. 1 lb. flour, 
2 eggs, f lb. butter, 2 ozs. sugar, mixed into paste with water, 
and rubbed down as before. 



If the case is merely to hold the mixture, and not to be eaten, 
make it very plain, because the plainer the paste the better it 
will stand up. In such case, dissolve ± lb. of lard in £ pint 
of boiling water, and stir in with a wooden spoon as much flour 
as will make it into a hard paste (about 1 lb. 2 ozs. of flour). 
Thoroughly knead it so that it resembles a smooth, hard biscuit 
dough ; then mould it into the shape of a sugar-loaf or cone, 
and put the palm of the left hand at the side of the bottom of 
this cone, and with the right hand press the top downwards ; 



(2) Puff Paste. 



French Puff Paste 



Sweet Short Paste- 



Short Paste for Raised Pie-cases* 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



179 



keep working the knuckles of the right hand downwards, and 
at the same time work up the sides all round with the left hand. 
Continue this until the box, so to speak, is deep enough, pressing 
the right hand about inside, and sustaining the sides with the 
left, and working it upwards at the same time. When the case 
is raised enough, put it away to harden ; after which wash the 
6ides with yolk of egg. Ornament with leaves and other designs 
cut from the same paste, fasten on securely with egg, and put 
away to harden. Cut the lid out, wash and ornament, etc. If 
the worker does not make a nice shape by the foregoing plan, 
then roll the paste out with a rolling-pin, cut out the bottom to 
the size required, also a band high enough and long enough to 
go all round the bottom ; wash the bottom with egg to make it 
stick, and stand the band on it ; bevel off the two ends, and join 
them securely and neatly. Be sure and fasten to the bottom 
securely, or the gravy will run out ; wash with egg, and ornament 
as before. If the paste is for eating, use \ lb. of butter to 1 lb. 
of flour. 



Cut up lean beef quite fine, take out all the skin and sinew, 
chop a little fat with it, mince a very small onion, and a little 
parsley, pepper and salt sparingly, mix a table-spoonful of suitable 
sauce, with enough water to make gravy, and put the meat into 
it before putting it into patty pans ; make puff paste, cut 
out the tops first, and then use the cuttings or some short paste 
to line the bottom of the patty-pan ; put the meat in quite moist 
from the sauce, put the tops on, fasten them down all round by 
gently pressing the outer edge ; wash over with yolk of egg 
thinned down with water to avoid its colouring too much ; cut 
out some paste leaves from the cuttings, stick them on top, and 
thoroughly bake in a sound oven ; garnish with parsley. 



Cut two large chickens into neat joints, put all the trimmings 
and bones, etc., into a stewpan, a little pepper and salt, an onion, 
piece of mace, and a few herbs ; cover with water or " stock," 
let this simmer two hours to make gravy ; make a forcemeat of 
the liver, a slice or two of tongue, £ lb. ham, and the yolks of 
4 eggs, season with salt and cayenne pepper, and make into 
balls; place a layer of chicken in the bottom of the dish, over 
this a layer of ham. Place the forcemeat-balls amongst the meat, 
strew over them some chopped mushrooms (or truffles, if wanted 
extra good), pour in the gravy, and cover with good puff paste, 
and finish in the usual way. If quantity and economy are required, 



Beef Patties. 



Chicken Pie for Picnics- 




i8o 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



add 3 or 4 hard-boiled eggs, and put in sausage meat instead of 
the forcemeat. 

Venison Tartlets* 

If there is a little cold venison left, it may be hashed, and 
hashed venison is of course a great and well-known favourite. 
But if this has been done, and a change is required, the following 
will yield a nice little cold entree : Mince the venison and make 
it into a venison salpicon as for croquettes ; fill some puff paste 
tarlet cases with this ; when cold, pipe a rim of red currant 
jelly round the edge, and a button of the same in the centre on 
the venison. Serve cold, with a little chopped aspic over the 
surface. For hotel use, at luncheons or dinners. 

Sausage Bolls. 

Roll puff paste very thin, and cut out in pieces 3$ by 3^ ins. y 
lay sausage meat made into a roll about the size of your largest 
finger through the middle ; damp the edges and bring the paste 
over the meat to join the other side ; wash over with yolk of 
egg ; ornament them with cut paste leaves, or cut them with a 
knife two or three times through the thick part slantwise. Sausage 
meat is usually obtainable from the pork butcher ; but if you 
prefer to make it, the following recipe may be recommended ; 
1 lb. pork, fat and lean, 1 lb. lean veal, J. lb. suet, $ lb. bread- 
crumbs, five sage leaves, \ teaspoonful of pepper, 1 of salt, and 
\ of marjoram. Be careful that the meat is free from skin and 
sinew ; chop very finely, add the bread-crumbs and seasoning, 
and mix well together. 

Oyster Patties. 

Cut some pieces from puff paste as for tartlet cases, wash them 
over with yolk of egg, and bake carefully. Cut out a smaller 
piece, wash over with egg ; put a paste leaf upon it, and bake : this 
will be for the cover. To make the paste leaves, cut out some 
short paste ; pinch one end between the thumb and finger of 
the left hand ; lay the back of the knife down the middle, and 
then crimp it on each side of the line in a slanting direction ; fill 
them with the following preparation : 

To prepare Oysters jor Patties. 

1 oyster for each patty- case ; warm them in their own liquor } 
be careful not to boil. Strain and beard them. Make a sauce 
as for melted butter, only with the liquor from the oysters ; season > 
add a little cream ; put back in the stewpan. Keep all warm till 



Digitized by 



THE mK&RS GUIDE. 



181 



required ; then put i oyster in each case ; fill with the sauce ; put 
cover on ; send out with parsley garnishing. 

Pastry Cheese Straws* 

Mix 2 ozs. grated parmesan cheese, 2 ozs. old and dry ditto, 
4 ozs. butter, 6 ozs. flour, 2 yolks of eggs (flavour with cayenne, 
salt, and a little powdered mace) into a stiff paste, roll out \ inch 
thick ; cut this into fingers three inches long, the same width as 
thickness ; bake quickly. 

(1) Cheese Cake Mixtures. 

\ lb. sugar, \ lb. butter, \ lb. ground almonds, 5 eggs, \ lb. 
flour, 1 oz. powder ; cream and mix as for cakes. 

(2) Cheese Cake Mixture (Called by the Trade 

"Cheese Curd"). 

\ lb. stale sponge cake rubbed through a sieve, 6 ozs. castor 
sugar, \ lb. butter, 3 eggs, 4 yolks, \ lb. potatoes boiled and 
mashed, a little grated lemon-rind, and 4 drops essence of lemon. 
Cream the butter, sugar, and eggs the same as for cakes , then 
stir in the mashed potatoes, flavourings, and sponge cake powder, 
and, if preferred, 2 ozs. ground almonds. This mixture should 
be used up in a few days, and should be kept in a basin or pan 
(or use. 

Common Curd. 

£ lb. flour, 6 ozs. sugar, \ lb. margarine, 1 oz. powder, essence 
of lemon ; rub all fine together ; wet up with water. 

(3) Cheese Cakes- 

Cut from puff paste that has had an extra turn, or from the 
cuttings left from tartlets, some circular or oval pieces with a 
fluted cutter, the size of the patty-pan it is to be baked in ; press 
the middle out a little thinner than the sides, to prevent the 
bottom from rising up and displacing the cheese curd during the 
baking. Place this in a patty-pan, and put a piece of cheese 
curd in the middle of the pastry, and bake in a sound oven. 
If, when baked, the cheese curd is found to be too firm or dry, 
beat up J egg and 1 oz. of butter, and add it to the curd to make 
it lighter; if it should be too soft, and run over the paste, add 
I oz. more sponge cake to the mixture to stiffen it. 



Digitized by 



182 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



(4) Cheese Curd. 



Turn 4 quarts of milk with rennet or lemon juice,, or a pinch 
tartaric acid, drain off water, beat the curd up with \ lb. butter, 
then beat in 4 yolks, \ lb. fine biscuit powder or 3 ozs. powdered 
sponge cake, the rind of 3 lemons, the juice of 1 lemon, 6 ozs. 
sugar ; beat until creamed, and use a spoonful in short paste in 
the ordinary way* 



Cut out paste as for cheese cakes, place in deep patty-pans f 
and into each of them put a table-spoonful of the following 
preparation : Break up fine, in a pan, \ lb. stale macaroons or 
any kind of almond goods, add \ lb. castor sugar, 2 eggs and 
2 yolks, 2 ozs. butter slightly melted, 2 ozs. candied orange-peel 
cut very fine. Beat this mixture with a wooden spoon for several 
minutes, and use a tablespoonful, as directed above. When in 
the pastry-cases dredge some fine sugar over them, sprinkle with 
water, and bake the same as for Coventry s. 



£ lb, ground almonds, \\ lb. sugar, made into a soft paste with 
white of egg; beat this with a wooden spoon for a quarter of an 
hour, line some patty-pans with paste, place a piece of apricot or 
greengage jam (about the size of a walnut) in the bottom, then 
upon the top of this put a teaspoonful or more of the almond 
batter ; give puff-paste cuttings an extra turn or two, and cut 
into narrow strips about an inch long ; lay these in the form of a 
star, or across each other on the top, and bake. 



\ lb. ground sweet almonds, \ lb. sugar, 2 eggs, 4 yolks ditto f 
a pinch of powdered mace, a little grated lemon peel, and 6 ozs. 
melted butter. Beat the eggs, sugar, almonds, and spice together 
in a basin with a wooden spoon for ten minutes, melt the butter, 
mix all together, and put a tablespoonful of the mixture into 
patty-pans lined with puff paste ; before putting them into the 
oven, put a small piece of fresh butter on each. 



Make two long strips of puff cuttings about 3 inches wide, and 
rolled very thin ; prick and bake. Prepare a custard with 2 ozs. 
cornflour, 4 eggs, pint milk, 3 ozs. sugar, and essence of vanilla. 
When cooked, spread this on the baked pastry slices ; cut in 
fingers, and ice over top, using water icing or fondant. 



Cadogans- 



French Congress Tarts. 



Almond or German Cheese Cakes- 



Vanilla Sandwiches. 




THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



i3j 



Almond Tart- 



\ lb. ground sweet almonds, 10 yolks, a pinch each of ground 
cinnamon and ginger, \ lb. sugar, i pint of milk, and \ lb. 
Savoy finger biscuits. Beat the yolks and stir them over the fire 
until they thicken, then mix all the other ingredients, and put 
into pa&try-lined pans (one or more), and bake in a moderate 
oven. When baked, stick shredded Jordan almonds on the top. 



Pare and core 12 apples, put them into a stewpan with a 
gill of water, \ lb. sugar, and the juice of a lemon. When 
sufficiently done, cut out ordinary tartlet cases, or a large-sized 
rather narrow oval dish, fill with the apple, and bake in a fairly 
hot oven. Boil down the liquor the apples were stewed in to a 
thin jelly, and when the tartlets ar6 baked, pour some of the 
syrup over them, then sift castor sugar on them, and place a 
dried cherry on the top of each tartlet. 



Line a flat or shallow oval dish with puff paste cuttings rolled 
out thin, prepare some apple pulp by boiling apples in sugar or 
syrup, flavoured with cloves, and spread this about half an inch 
thick on the paste. Cut very thin strips of paste, twist them 
slightly, and lay them in cross-bars over the tart ; bake in a 
good sound oven. Prior to baking, blanch a few almonds, cut 
them in long strips, and place them on the top of the tart. 



Roll out some puff paste into a thin sheet, cut it into strips 
about two inches by six. Spread these with jam or freshly 
stewed fruit ; wet the outer edges, roll up lengthwise rather 
loosely, and fry in boiling fat ; after a minute or two draw the 
pan on one side of the fire to finish the puffs, or they will brown 
too much ; drain them upon thin paper, etc. 



There is no reason why the " Fanchonette," as used at dinner 
parties, should not make a good article for first-class shop-sale. 
The great majority of my readers know what a " fanchonette " is ; 
but in case a few do not, I will just remark that it is a tartlet 
baked with a little jam in the bottom, and a little stiff-cooked 
custard or cheese cake mixture over the jam. When baked, they 



Apple Tartlets- 



Apple Tart (Open). 



Fried Puffs or Gannelons- 



Fanchonettes* 




THE BAKERS' GUIDE, 



are masked for half an inch or more with meringue, and piped 
on the surface with some of the same material as decoration.; 
then dredged with pulverised sugar, and dried in the hot closet 
or very cool oven, as for spoon meringues. The best plan to 
adopt for shop work would be to make " fanchonette tops," and 
keep a stock of them in tin boxes, making from day to day 
what tartlets you require, and sticking the tops on with a little 
icing. The tops can be piped on to slips of foolscap paper, or 
tins previously greased and floured, so that they will slip off 
easily when baked and cool. The " fanchonette 99 will keep three 
or four days. 

Scotch Cheese Cakes- 

Line patty-pans with a short crust, fill with cheese cake mixture 
No. i ; place 2 strips of paste in the form of a cross on top of 
each ; bake in a warm oven. 

Bice Cheese Cakes* 

Cut out Short paste, line patty-pans ; next make the following 
mixture: Cream 12 ozs. butter, 12 ozs. castor sugar, 5 eggs 
added by degrees, a few drops of essence of lemon ; then take 
£ lb. ground rice, previously stewed in $ pint milk in a clean 
copper pan till quite stiff, and mix all together. Fill and bake 
in a moderate oven. 

Strawberry Tartlets. 

Cut out some sweet short paste, place in patty-pans, bake in 
a moderate oven, of a golden colour. Then put into a clean 
stewpan 1 lb. castor sugar, the juice of 1 lemon, and i pint 
water ; place this over a clear fire, let it simmer till a syrup ; 
have ready 1 quart of strawberries, place these into the syrup, 
simmer, not boil, for a few moments ; then put three or four of the 
strawberries into each shell, reduce the syrup a little, and place 
a spoonful over the fruit in each tart; colour syrup with carmine. 

Banbury Cakes* 

Cut out puff paste into flat oblong pieces, and put this mixture 
into them : Take 12 ozs. of butter, cream , add 12 ozs. sugar, 
6 eggs by degrees, a little grated nutmeg, \\ lb. currants, 4 ozs. 
of finely chopped lemon peel, \ lb. flour, and 2 ozs. stale sponge 
cake grated very finely ; mix thoroughly, and fill ; make of an 
oblong shape, place close together on your paste slab, sugar over 
with fine sugar, ard bake in a moderate oven. 



Digitized by 



TEE BAKERS GUIDE. 



i85 



Eccles Cakes. 

These are generally made from the scraps or cuttings of puff 
paste. Roll out as for Banbury ; cut out with a smaller cutter ; 
mix together \\ lb. currants well cleaned, and \ lb. brown raw 
sugar, a little ground nutmeg, and 2 ozs. finely chopped lemon- 
peel. Place a little of the mixture on each piece of paste, fold 
up in a round shape, roll out round, say two inches in diameter, 
sugar over, and bake in a moderate oven. 

French Apple-turnovers- 

Peel and core 6 apples, put them in a stewpan with \ lb. of 
sugar, a piece of butter the size or a walnut, the rind of a lemon 
rubbed on a piece of sugar ; add an eggcupful of water, and let 
the apples stew for 15 minutes, frequently shaking them up 
to prevent burning ; stand them on one side to cool. Line some 
small round patty-pans with short paste, or pastry-cuttings ; put in 
2 or 3 of the quarters of apples ; put a teaspoonful of apricot 
preserve upon them, and cover them in with puff paste cut out 
with a round cutter the same as for mince-pies ; pinch the outer 
edge all round with the finger and thumb in the form of a cord, 
or the same as you would shortbread ; wash the turnovers with 
white of egg and water, dredge with fine sugar, slightly sprinkle 
with water, and bake in a moderate oven. This kind of turnover 
can be made from any sort of fruit, using a little of the same kind 
of preserve ; but plums or peaches should be stoned before being 
put into the turnover ; they can be made any size, for one, two, 
or more persons. 

Brandy-Bread Tartlets- 

Beat up 2 yolks and 5 eggs, dissolve 6 ozs. butter in a pint of 
milk, and pour it hot over 1 lb. bread crumbs ; when cold pour 
in the eggs, add \ lb. sugar, \ lb. sultanas, a few gratings of 
nutmeg, and a glass of brandy ; line patty-pans with puff paste 
cuttings, put in a spoonful of the mixture, and bake in a good 
oven. 

Chocolate Tarts- 

Prepare a custard of 2 ozs. chocolate, a pinch of cinnamon- 
powder, 2 ozs. finely chopped lemon-peel, \ lb. sugar, 2 ozs. 
ground rice, 1 pint milk, and 5 eggs ; beat the eggs, and steadily 
mix all the ingredients together, and stir over the fire until it 
thickens as an ordinary custard, but do not let it boil or curdle ; 
let it cool, and then pour into patty pans lined with puff paste ; 
bake in a sound oven. 

N 



Digitized by 



i86 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



Tart 11 De Moi." 

Line a tart-mould with a rim of light puff paste, then fill it with 
alternate layers of grated biscuit or macaroons, shred marrow or 
veal suet, and different kinds of sweetmeats until your dish is 
sufficiently filled. Then boil a quart pf new milk, a lump of 
butter, a table-spoonful of sugar, and a dessert-spoonful of rose 
water; thicken it with 4 well-beaten eggs, pour it into your 
pie-dish, and bake for an hour. 

Fancy Custards. 

Line a patty-pan with the cuttings of puff paste, or good short 
crust, place a teaspoonful of jam in them, and a teaspoonful of 
custard over it, bake in a good oven ; when cold, ice with water 
icing, or an icing made with 1 white of egg to 1 oz. sugar ; 
spread this over the top of the custard ; sift fine sugar over it, 
and put inside the oven for one minute to set. 

Pastry Sandwiches. 

These are cut from puff paste, in fingers about half an inch 
square and three inches long ; they are laid upon tins, with the 
cut sides forming the top and bottom ; the effect of this is that, 
instead of rising upwards when exposed to the heat of the oven, 
they spread out ilat upon the tin. When baked, spread them 
with apricot, greengage, or any kind of preserve ; place them in 
pairs, and then ice them with water ice, prepared thus : 2 whites 
of eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of water, and enough icing-sugar to 
make it into a thick syrup. Cover the top of the sandwich with 
this, and put into the oven to set firm, but do not allow it to 
discolour. 

Pair Pastry. 

When cutting out puff paste, cut a certain portion into small 
oblong squares ; after washing as usual with egg, place two small 
dummies side by side on each piece of paste. Bake as usual ; 
remove the dummies ; this will leave two little wells side by side 
in the paste ; fill one well with cooked custard cream, and the 
other with strawberry jam. This will give a pretty pastry com- 
bining both strawberry and cream, to sell in the shop or restaurant 
at either id. or 2^., but if the latter, cut the paste a little thicker, 
and perhaps pipe a thin, neat ring of icing round each well. 

Apricot Tartlets. 

These are very stylish in appearance, while they eat as 
good as they look ; they are much simpler in preparation than the 
cherry tartlets. Prepare the cases as for the latter, and put a 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



187 



half apricot into each tartlet, then pipe a rim of red-currant jelly 
round each tartlet. If for dinner-parties, etc., the apricots and 
juice can be turned into a basin, kept on ice in the refrigerator, 
and put into the tartlet cases just before serving, when they will 
.eat deliciously cold. 

French Apricot Tart. 

Roll puff paste thin, then cut out a piece the size of a plate ; 
iay this on a clean baking-tin ; wet round the edge with your 
paste brush, then place round a border one inch wide ; ornament 
round the border a little ; dock the paste over with a fork to 
prevent it from blowing ; sugar over with fine sugar, and bake a 
nice golden colour in a moderate oven. See that it is properly 
baked ; if not, it will fall when taken from the oven. Then take, 
.say, a dozen apricots, not too ripe : cut them in halves, break the 
stones, and blanch the kernels by placing them in boiling water 
for a few minutes as you would do almonds ; place in a clean 
s*ewpan 1 pint cold water, 1 2 ozs. white sugar, the juice of 1 lemon ; 
£nd let this come to a simmer to dissolve the sugar ; then place in 
the apricots ; let them simmer very slowly for about five minutes. 
Take them out very carefully on to a dish ; reduce the liquor 
to a thick syrup, then add a wineglassful of sherry ; place the 
apricots very nicely round your tart, filling it all over inside the 
border ; pour the syrup over ; place a kernel in between every 
other apricot, then a crystallized cherry ; and ornament the border 
with a little red jelly. This is a very nice tart. 

Orange Tart. 

Extract the juice of three oranges and boil the rind and pulp 
till quite tender ; add to the juice and pulp 3 ozs. sugar and 2 ozs. 
butter. Line a shallow tart-tin with good puff paste, and when 
about half baked fill with the orange paste and set in a quick oven 
to finish. 

Orange Tart (another way). 

Take 4 sweet oranges, 3 ozs. of loaf sugar, 2 eggs, 1 oz. of 
butter, 2 slices of plain cake, and a little milk. Butter a pie-dish, 
and lay in the cake previously soaked with milk. Wipe the 
oranges, and rub the lumps of sugar over the outside of the rind 
to obtain the aromatic flavour which it yields ; then remove all the 
white peel, and pound the pulp with the sugar, keeping back 
the pips ; add the yolks of the eggs and butter slightly melted ; 
mix thoroughly, and pour over the cake. Whip the whites of 
.eggs to a firm froth, add a little sugar, pile roughly on the top 
of the orange mixture, and bake in a moderately hot oven to a 
pale brown colour. Sift a little white sugar over, and serve hot. 



Digitized by 



i88 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



Cream Tartlets- 



Make ordinary jam tartlets; place i teaspoonful of custard 
on the jam, and on the top of the custard put a small spoonful 
of meringue mixture (made with i oz. of icing sugar to each white 
of egg according to the quantity required), bake in a moderate 
oven, add the meringue when the tartlet is baked, then put back 
for a few minutes to set. 



Make tartlet cases with either puff or tart paste, keeping them 
well open during baking with well-rounded dummies. Stone 
some red cherries without disfiguring them ; put them into a 
stewpan, add (according to judgment; some pulverized sugar, toss 
them up together to coat the cherries with the sugar, and boil up 
for two or three minutes, according to quantity. Now strain the 
juice from the cherries, placing the latter in a basin ; replace the 
juice in the stewpan, colour with cochineal, acidulate with a little 
lemon-juice, boil up, and while boiling, stir in a very small 
quantity of raw arrowroot or corn flour mixed with cold water, 
just sufficient to slightly thicken the juice without making arrow- 
root-pudding of it, or letting the use of arrow root be detected. 
Pour this over the cherries ; when cold, fill the tartlets, and pipe 
a rim of whipped cream round each. I do not introduce cherry 
tartlets as anything of a novelty ; but this style of making them 
is not usually adopted, and so made, they eat delightfully fresh 
and do not cloy the palate ; while the bright red of the cherries 
and juice contrasts with the white cream rim in a manner which 
would probably please an artistic eye. 



Prepare this mixture, viz. : i pint milk, i oz. cornflour, 4 
eggs, 2 yolks, the rind of 1 lemon, and about J lb. sugar, 3 
drops essence of lemon. Boil up milk, cornflour, lemon, and 
sugar, take out the lemon-rind, whip up the eggs, and stir in 
slowly. Line some patty-pans with puff paste cuttings, crimp or 
notch the outer edge neatly, nearly fill with the custard, grate a 
little nutmeg on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. 



Cut off feet for top of pie. Take 3 fresh pigeons, divide 
in two from head to tail, mince the livers with parsley, and 
put inside ; then a seasoning of pepper, salt, and a piece of 
butter ; place on the bottom of dish about f lb. good rump steak 
cut into strips, seasoned and rolled loosely, lay the pigeon upon 



Cherry Tartlets. 



Small Pastry Custards- 



Pigeon Pie for four Persons. 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



189 



the steak, and a half of hard boiled egg between each of them ; 
put a little more seasoning and a piece of butter on the top, pour 
into the dish \ pint clean stock ; or warjting this, dissolve a little 
gelatine in extract of beef and water, season, and pour over ; 
line the top part inside and top edge with paste, and put a good 
thick crust of puff paste, wash over with yolk of egg, make a 
hole in the top, scald and skin feet (3 or 4), stick in the hole, 
toes upwards, and bake thoroughly in a moderate oven. 

Chelsea Cheese Cakes- 

Line patty-pans with puff paste cuttings; roll smoothly ; press 
and prick the bottom to prevent puffing ; put in them a spoonful 
of the mixture called Chelsea curd, made as follows — 8 eggs, 
6 ozs. sugar, 6 ozs. butter, cream as for cakes, flavour with essence 
of rose, almond, or vanilla ; put this mixture in a saucepan, gently 
bring to a simmer, but do not let it boil ; stir ; it is then ready for 
use ; when in the pans, put a piece of citron or glac6 fruit on top ; 
dust with fine sugar, and bake. 

Cocoa Cheese Cakes- 
Cream \ lb. butter, \ lb. sugar, 3 eggs, add 2 ozs. powdered 
sponge cake and J lb. desiccated cocoa nut, place spoonful of this 
in the usual short paste. 

Cleveland's Custards- 
Boil together for a minute 1 quart milk, £ lb. of finest patent 
middlings flour, \ lb. fresh butter, J lb. sugar, pinch of salt, 1 gill 
orange flower water, 6 ozs. chopped almonds ; make all into a 
stiffish custard ; bake as usual in short paste-lined pans. Sprinkle 
with sugar. 

Genoese Pastry. 

\ lb. of castor sugar, \ lb. butter, £ lb. eggs, \ lb. flour, a 
small glass of brandy, 3 drops essence of spice, \ oz. of powder. 
Put the eggs and sugar into a pan, beat vigorously five or ten 
minutes ; melt the butter slowly, but not hot, pour it into the 
eggs and sugar, add brandy and flour, mix gently ; place upon 
a buttered tin, spread it about a half inch thickness. The 
edges require blocking with small pieces of wood to prevent 
them spreading. Bake in a moderately hot oven a rich yellow* 
and put away in a cool, moist atmosphere ; it will then become 
soft, ready for cutting with a paste-cutter or sharp knife into 
small circular, oval, leaf-like, diamond, or any other fancy shape. 
Cut them through, spread with a variety of bright-coloured 



Digitized by 



190 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



preserve, place together again, and cover the top with pink and 

white icing. This may be ornamented in various ways according * 

to taste : with pistachio, neat strips of jelly and bright dots of 

an opposite colour ; or meringue mixture, which should be piped 

upon the shapes, dust with fine sugar, and dry in the screen. 

The following is another mode of ornamentation. When nearly 

baked, take it out carefully and wash lightly with egg ; sprinkle 

with chopped almonds and coarse sugar-crystals, and put it back 

to finish baking ; when cold cut into shapes. 

Genoese paste can also be used for the framework of gateaux, 
etc., flavoured with lemon or vanilla to taste. This very light 
mixture is very good for small moulds. 

Marbled Genoese- 
Make a sheet of Genoese cake ; the next day shave off the 
upper skin or crust with a sharp knife. Presuming that the cake 
is one inch in thickness, cut it into strips about three inches in 
width ; split these, and sandwich them together with some dark 
jam ; now mask the top surface with some fondant icing, and, 
before it sets, marble it over the surface by veining, or drawing 
alternate coloured lines, and then drawing zigzag lines across 
with a wooden skewer, or preferably with a coarse steel tooth 
comb, as used by grainers, or a piece of stiff cardboard, cut in 
shape of comb. Now cut it into fingers of about an inch 
across. These will keep for a week, and will sell at a profit 
for id., although 2d. may well be charged. 

Note. — J want to suggest or impart a new idea of ornamentation 
for this kind of work, and if you know how those very artistic 
marblings and stainings are put upon the edges of books, you will 
catch on quickly, for the principle of the work is analogous. 
First, a very soft, pliable icing, and quickly alternate lines of any 
number of colours ; and then a dexterous wrist, making short or 
long or eccentric sweeps with the steel comb, and these colours 
are intermingled, but as regular and beautiful as are the rays in 
a rainbow, or as vivid and bold as are the cloud tints cast at the 
beginning of a sunset: 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 191 
FANCY GOODS, ETC. 
African Shoots and Fancy Shapes. 

HALF-POUND butter, 1 lb. castor sugar, \\ lbs. flour, 
4 eggs, 6 drops essence of lemon, enough milk to make 
them into middling firm dough. Cream the butter, 
sugar, and eggs as for cakes ; when creamed, add the 
other ingredients and mix lightly ; it will then be ready for forcing 
through the shoot, which should be furnished with three or four 
different designs or slides. Put one of these designs into the 
tube, put some of the mixture in, and then with the plug force it 
through in long strips upon the board ; change the design each 
time until the mixture is used up, and then cut the strips in 
lengths, and make them into various shapes, fingers, rings, crowns, 
Prince of Wales's feathers, etc. ; place these upon baking-tins, 
and bake in a hot oven. Do not work the mixture about after 
it is mixed* or it will become tough and difficult to force through 
the shoot. 

Walnuts. 

3 lbs. flour, 1 J lb. sugar, \\ lb. butter, 3 eggs, volatile size of 
a bean, dissolved in milk, enough to make a firm dough. Mix 
same as for wine-biscuits. Fill up the walnut moulds, cut off the 
loose dough close to the beard or mould, knock them out, place 
upon tins flat side downwards, and bake in a good sound oven. 
When baked lightly, touch the flat side with white of egg, and 
stick two halves together. 

Walnut and Oocoanut Cream Nuts. 

Prepare a cream, i.e., fondant, by boiling to the ball or 240 0 to 
245 0 Fahr. 12 lbs. of sugar with 2 lbs. glucose, in 4 pints of 
water, adding no cream of tartar. Boil in the usual manner to 
the degree given, then remove from the fire ; then turn it on 
your marble or slate ; add i oz. gum-arabic dissolved in as little 
water as possible. Now with your spatula work it backward 
and forward until it assumes a creamy appearance. When 
creamed enough place it by for use. When you need to use 
any take what you wish, dissolve it over heat in a suitable vessel, 
and turn it on your marble, or use from the kettle containing it,, 
as the case requires. You can colour, also flavour it as desired. 
Have ready the halves of English walnuts, skinned, also have 
your cream (white) just soft enough to handle or spread with a 
knife ; then take half a walnut, spread on it a little cream, and 



Digitized by 



192 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



press on the other half walnut. Press the two together so that 
the cream is forced beyond the edges of the walnut, then place 
them away to dry. When dry, crystallize them or not, as you 
desire. Walnut cream is the same cream with chopped walnuts 
worked in it, as many as possible in reason, then pressed out in 
a cake \ inch thick, and for sake of appearance both sides covered 
with a thin layer of pink cream. When the cream is fully set, 
cut through in J-inch slices. 



$ lb. ground sweet almonds, i lb. ground bitter ditto, J lb. 
rice flour, 2 J lbs. castor sugar, 12 whites of eggs (good size). 
Put this mixture into a pan or basin, and well beat it with a 
wooden spoon for about three-quarters of an hour ; it will then 
be a light and smooth paste. Place some of this in a forcing bag, 
and drop small buttons upon smooth paper. Sift fine sugar on 
them, place the paper on a tin, and bake in a cool oven. When 
cold, pick them off the paper ; it will not be necessary to wet the 
paper. The quantity and quality of the white of an egg varies 
according to the freshness of the egg and breed of the fowl. It 
will therefore be necessary, when making ratafias and macaroons, 
to try a few before baking the bulk. When the mixture is ready, 
run a half-dozen out and put into the oven ; if they 11 flow " out too 
flat in the oven, add a little more almond or a. pinch of flour ; 
but if too firm, with a rough surface, add another white and beat 
for a few minutes. It is usual, when running out almond goods, 
to use a bag made of a bullock's bladder, with a hole in the point, 
through which the pipe or tube is pushed and securely tied. The 
soft mixture penetrates very freely through cloth or canvas, and 
is unpleasant and wasteful. The bladder, when used, should 
be scraped, and not washed. The size of the pipe or tube for 
ratafias should be half an inch, and for macaroons three-quarters 
of an inch. 



Castor sugar 2 J lbs., 1 lb. ground sweet almonds, 1 1 whites of 
eggs. Prepare the mixture as for ratafias, and when ready run out 
on wafer-paper placed upon a tin. Blanch some sweet almonds, 
cut them in slices lengthways, place two pieces upon each maca- 
roon, bake in a cool oven. It is absolutely necessary that wafer- 
paper be used (it can be eaten with the biscuit), as it is next to 
impossible to take these biscuits off* paper without wetting it, 
which is likely to spoil them. When the ratafias or macaroons 
are upon the paper, before going into the oven, lightly dust with 
fine sugar through a wire sieve. 



Batafias. 



Macaroons and Almond Cakes* 




THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



193 



Spanish Macaroons* 

1 lb. almonds, 1 lb. sugar, 12 yolks of eggs, \ oz. powdered 
cinnamon, and the grated rind of a lemon ; boil the sugar to the 
blow, that is, until you can blow it through the holes of a per- 
forated spoon in transparent bubbles, etc. ; add the almonds, etc., 
and simmer ten minutes ; add the yolks, and stir rapidly until it 
thickens, then take it off and pour it on to sugar spread upon a 
board or slab, mould it into small balls, roll in sugar \ put upon 
wafer-paper on tins, and dry. 

Almond Raspberry Sandwiches- 
Take i lb. ground almonds, \ lb. castor-sugar, and i lb. flour, 
and make into a firm paste with eggs. Break up some stale sponge 
or other cakes, and make it into a smooth paste with raspberry 
jam. Roll the almond paste into a very thin sheet, roll out the 
raspberry jam paste into a sheet not quite so thin, and place it 
between the almond paste, so that the latter forms the top and 
bottom layers ; cut this into sandwiches or pieces about i£ by 
3-J inches ; bake carefully, merely setting the mixture, and ice 
pink and white with icing slightly favoured with essence of 
raspberry. 

Victoria Sandwiches* 

1 lb. butter, 1 lb. sugar, 1$ lb. flour, 12 eggs, half teaspoonful 
of carbonate of soda and cream of tartar, sifted with the flour. 
Cream the butter and sugar, adding the eggs and flour as for cakes. 
Spread this mixture in sandwich tins about one-quarter inch thick, 
and bake in a sharp oven. When baked, spread with greengage 
or other preserve, place two layers together, and cut into eight 
parts. These sandwiches are properly served whole, iced with 
jthe usual water icing fondant, and ornamented with nonpariels 
and loaf-sugar broken small and made pink with cochineal, or 
glace fruit and piping. 

Meringues and Cream* 

1 lb. very fine sugar and 8 whites of fresh eggs. Whisk the 
whites in a pan until they are quite firm, and resemble a mass of 
hard snow. The mixture will require about half an hour's 
vigorous beating ; mix in while beating a half of the sugar ; then 
take a wooden spoon and carefully and lightly mix in the remain- 
ing sugar. The moulding or shaping of these biscuits is rather diffi- 
cult for beginners. The plan adopted in the ordinary bakehouse 
is as follows : Slightly butter and flour a thick baking-sheet, fit a 
large-sized pipe or tube into the savoy bag, fill it with the 



Digitized by 



194 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



mixture, and run it out upon the floured tin as near the shape 
of a small egg as possible, each one an inch apart. Sift some 
sugar over the meringues through a hair sieve, and put them ta 
bake or dry either in a very cold oven or in the biscuit-drying 
oven. When thoroughly dried through, take them off the tin 
with a palette knife ; and after carefully scooping out all ther 
moist inside, or pushing the bottom in with greased end of an egg, 
dry and put them away in tins in a warm dry place for future 
use. More proficient workmen gather the mixture up in a spoon, 
drop it upon paper in the shape of an egg, sift some loaf-sugar 
dust over them, shake it off the same as for " savoy fingers," 
stand the papers upon thin boards (seasoned to stand the heat) 
or tins, and bake in a very cold oven. When sending them to- 
table, flavour some double cream (that will whip) with a drop or 
two of essence of vanilla or other essence, and an ounce or two- 
of fine sugar, and then whip it until it will stand in the position- 
you place it, but be careful that you do not whip it into butter, 
or approaching to butter ; fill the meringues with this cream, 
place two halves together, and dish for table. This mixture car* 
be used in a variety of ways for ornamenting sweet dishes for 
dessert. A savoy bag filled with the meringue, and fitted with a 
small tube or pipe, can be made to produce many designs, which 
should be dusted with sugar, and dried in the screen or oven. 



i lb. flour, \ lb. sugar, \ lb. butter. 2 eggs, pinch of powder. 
Rub butter and flour together, give the sugar and eggs a littler 
mixing, put all together and knead well, rubbing it down with 
the hand upon the table until the whole is a smooth compact 
mass ; break it into sizes required, mould them into shape, 
flatten out a little, and with the thumb and forefinger " pinch " 
the edges ; place upon a baking sheet, and ornament the tops- 
with designs of neatly-cut lemon peel and caraway comfits. 
Bake in a sound oven. 



3 lbs. flour, 1 lb. sugar, 2 ozs. citron, 2 ozs. almonds chopped r 
2 lbs. butter. Mix as before. 



4 lbs. flour, if lb. butter, 6 ozs. sugar, 1 oz. caraways f 
1 oz. powder, and about 4 table-spoonfuls of milk. Rub them 



Shortbread. 



Scotch Shortbread (Rich). 



Scotch Shortbread (Plain). 



X 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



i9S 



all together into a firm, smooth mass ; make them into square cakes 
} lb. each ; pinch up the edges with the thumb and forefinger, 
cut out shamrock, thistle, or other ornaments in citron or candied 
peel ; lay on the top (press in a little) a few caraway comfits, or 
pipe them with the usual complements of the season in pink and 
white icing-sugar, or write upon them " We're a* John Tamson's 
bairns," " Scotland yet," " Ye ken wha fra," " Peace and Plenty/' 
" For Auld Lang Syne," " The Land o' the Leal," etc. 



i£ lb. flour, 10 ozs. sugar, io ozs. butter, i oz. ammonia, 5 
eggs ; mix the butter, sugar, and eggs ; then mix in flour, etc., 
into smooth dough ; break into 1 oz. pieces, and roll into fingers ; 
twist into the letter S, flatten them, wash over with yolk, cut down 
the middle, and bake in good heat. 



\ lb. ground almonds, £ lb. fresh butter, \ lb. sugar, 10 ozs. 
flour, 8 yolks of eggs, cream, butter, sugar, and eggs as for cakes. 
Work in quite smooth the almonds and flour, and put in a cold 
place to set firm ; then roll paste thin on pasteboard, and cut out 
circular pieces size of cheese plate, put upon baking-tin, and 
bake in a sharp oven until set firm : when cold, jam them as for 
other sandwiches, place them all on top of each other, and then 
ornament the top with pink icing, meringue mixture, etc. Colour 
some chocolate and some red, and alternate layers when putting 
together after baking. 



Make a ,c whip " some hours before it is wanted to be used, of a 
quart of double cream or very thick cream, 1 glass of sherry, the 
rind of a lemon, and i lb. fine sugar ; whip vigorously, take the 
froth off as it forms, lay on a sieve to drain. Put in a trifle 
dish, i lb. ratafias, J lb. macaroons, few sponge biscuits, some 
melted calves'-feet jelly ; put this in the refrigerator to set ; put 
£ oz. isinglass in table-spoonful warm water to dissolve ; when 
melted, mix with 1 pint of thick cream, 3 drops essence of lemon, 
2 ozs. sugar, and a glass of wine, pour this over as soon as it is 
mixed or it will set too firm to pour out ; when on the jelly, orna- 
ment with bright jam, etc., and then pile on it the whipped cream 
that has been set to drain. 



Line a jelly-mould with savoy-fingers, by placing them evenly 
side by side all round the mould, covering it all up : the place 



German Shortbread (id. each). 



Neapolitan Sandwiches- 



A Trifle. 



Charlotte Basse- 




196 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



left in the middle cover with a star or piece cut for the purpose. 
Dissolve \ oz. of gelatine in as little water as possible, whisk a 
pint of cream, add to it 2 ozs. of castor-gugar and \ lb. of jam, 
strained through a fine sieve. Mix the whole together, fill the 
mould, cover with a piece of sponge cake cut to fit, and set it to 
freeze. When well frozen, turn out and serve. 

Gauffres. 

Cream as for cakes, 1 lb. fresh butter, 1 lb. loaf sugar, 1 lb. 
eggs, gill of brandy, 4 drops essence of vanilla, and a pinch of 
powdered nutmeg : stir in 1 lb. fine flour, put on buttered baking- 
tins, the same as for jumbles, allowing plenty of room to spread ; 
before quite cold, curl or roll them, and -sift white sugar over. 

Little Mazarins of Lobster. 

Set in ice as many copper dariole plain moulds as you may 
require ; open a can of lobster, cut up some of the most ruddy 
parts, with which cover the bottom of the moulds ; pour a layei 
of bright aspic jelly on this, to set the lobster firmly in ; then 
mask the interior with whipped aspic jelly, cut up the remainder 
of the lobster, or roughly chop it ; add mayonnaise sauce and 
aspic jelly or plain gelatine to it, sufficient to ensure its setting 
firm ; season it to a piquant degree, then fill up the interior ot 
the moulds with the mixture. When one of these mazarins is 
turned out, by dipping in warm water, as for a mould or jelly, it 
will form a tasty and attractive little tit-bit, the top showing the 
red lobster embedded in the crystal aspic, the whipped aspic sides 
showing a marble whiteness, and the interior, when cut or spooned, 
shows a creamy, solid mixture of lobster mayonnaise. 

Little Mazarins of Salmon- 

Proceed as for lobster mazarins, using canistered salmon, and 
* omit the setting of fish with aspic into the bottom of the mould ; 
but mask the whole of the interior with the whipped aspic jelly. 

Mayonnaise Eggs- 
Boil some eggs hard ; shell and put into cold water, cut off 
a sufficiency of the broad tip, insert a small spoon and remove 
the hard yolk, pass the yolk through the hair sieve into a small 
basin, and with a wooden spoon stir oil, vinegar, etc., into it, 
with sufficient condiments to produce a stiff and very tasty sort of 
mayonnaise , fill the eggs with this mayonnaise, and stand them 
on a dish or plate. For hotel, restaurant, or bar. 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE, 



197 



Chicken Boll. 



Make a salpicon of mixed chicken and tongue, with a rather 
stiff white sauce. Have some small long narrow rolls made ; cut 
them in half lengthways, nearly through ; scoop out a certain 
portion of the interior, but not too much ; fill it up with the 
chicken . salpicon, close over, and send out in the picnic or 
luncheon basket. Suitable for picnics, travelling, hunting, etc. ; 
handy for hotel use also. 



Beat \ lb. or 1 lb. of butter to a cream, with a wooden spoon, 
in a basin ; a very little salt and mixed mustard to taste. This 
will keep for three weeks or a month, if kept in a cool, dry place. 
Use it as required for buttering the bread for sandwiches. It is 
a great improvement on the old-fashioned way of preparing sand- 
wiches ; is better eating, is far quicker, and more convenient. 



. Cut 5 oranges into pieces the shape of the quarters, but only 
about a quarter-inch thick. Dip each piece into clear, stiff orange 
jelly, and arrange round the bottom of a plain tin, filling up the 
centre with pistachio nuts, then lining the sides of the mould with 
the quarters of orange, one row turning to the right, the other 
to the left alternately, until the mould is full, the pieces of fruit 
just overlapping each other. Then fill in with about three- 
quarters pint whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla, brandy, or 
other flavouring, adding a very little isinglass and sugar (dissolved). 
When it has quite set, turn out into a glass dish, and, if liked, a 
little more cream may be poured round and garnished here and 
there with pounded pistachio nuts. 



Take a good- sized glass basket, place in it six sponge cakes, 
soak in the juice extracted from a quart of raspberries, sweeten to 
taste. Take some whipped cream, slightly sweetened, and cover 
the cakes, except in the centre, where some whipped cream 
slightly coloured with cochineal can be placed. Put round 
bunches of raspberries garnished with leaves, alternately red and 
white. Twine gracefully round the handle bunches of red and 
white raspberries mixed with leaves. 



Take a good tin of lobster, pick out any stray bones that may 
be in it, chop it up. Place an equal weight of fresh butter in a 



Butter for Sandwiches* 



Chartreuse of Oranges. 



The Baspberry Basket. 



Lobster Snack 




i 9 8 THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



basin, beat ic with a wooden spoon until it is well creamed ; add 
the lobster, stirring it well in. Stir in flavouring — according to 
taste and judgment — of anchovy sauce, salt, pepper, and vinegar. 
To serve, take an ordinary small rasped dinner roll, cut it across 
into two, place a good teaspoonful of the lobster butter on each 
piece, spread it smooth and serve on a small plate. This forms 
a very appetising luncheon tit-bit. It should be especially useful 
for luncheon-bars. The lobster butter will keep good for a week 
or more. Proceed in the same way for salmon. 



Butter a pudding-dish and cover the bottom with dry bread- 
crumbs. Put over this a layer of ripe raspberries, sprinkle with 
sugar, and then add another layer of crumbs ; proceed in this way 
until the dish is full, having the last layer crumbs. Put bits of 
butter over the top and bake, with a plate over it, half an hour. 
Remove the plate and let it brown just before serving. Use only 
half the quantity of crumbs that you do of the fruit. Eat with 
cream* 



HARD biscuits of all varieties are similar in mixing, 
kneading, and baking. When the butter and other in- 
gredients are added, they have to be well rubbed in and 
shaken up by putting the hands underneath the roughly 
mixed dough, and tossing it up into the air until it is separated 
into small fragments ; this is done to prevent any of the ingre- 
dients from remaining undistributed. It is then placed upon a 
" brake " and cut to pieces by the operator placing his whole 
weight upon the extreme end of the handle and moving it up 
and down ; when the dough appears " clear " and " smooth," he 
gradually diminishes his weight upon the handle, folding it up 
repeatedly until it is finished. It should then be covered with 
a damp cloth, to keep it mellow, for an hour or two ; and then 
cut out or moulded into shape, and baked in a hot oven. Care 
must be taken to keep the air from the dough through the 
whole operation until it is in the oven, or the beauty and finish 
will be marred. 

If the old-fashioned biscuit-brake is replaced by the greatly 
improved biscuit-machine, so much the better for the worker and 
the goods he turns out ; if so, then all that will be necessary is to 
properly adjust the rollers, whether for " braking " or rolling out 
/or the cutters. 



Raspberry Charlotte. 



BISCUITS (HARD AND SOFT). 
Hard Biscuits. 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



199 



All plain hard biscuits should be well dried after they are 
fcaked, by putting them for some hours in the drying oven, 
screen, or dry warm place. If an amateur essays to make bis- 
cuits, he will always experience some difficulty in shaping or 
moulding them ; when this is so it will be better to cut them 
•out with a cutter. If penny captains, arrowroots, Abernethys, 
or biscuits of that class are wanted, proceed thus : Roll the dough 
out to a £ inch, cut out with a cutter, and then finish- with a 
rolling pin, taking care to thoroughly dock them through before 
baking. 

Thin Captains or Water Biscuits. 

Fine flour 4 lbs., 2 ozs. butter, 2 eggs, and 1 pint water. Mix 
.and knead as directed, and then roll out very thin, as thin as 
paper — in fact, the thinner the better ; cut out with a cutter, 
dock them with a docker, very slightly dust a thin tin with cones 
or ground rice, lay the biscuits upon it, and put them into a very 
hot oven. If possible tilt the tin towards the furnace or fiercest 
part of the oven for a second or two, so that the heat may play 
directly upon the face of the biscuits, and raise small brown 
blisters upon them ; then put the tin upon the oven bottom to 
finish. The oven must be red-hot, and the workman smart. 
Don't let them "perish" in baking. 

Thick Captains. 

Flour 7 \ lbs., \ lb. butter, 2 eggs, and 1 quart water. Mix as 
directed ; when ready weigh off 2 ozs. each, mould, roll out, 
dock quite through, and bake in a fairly hot oven. 

Abernethys. 

Flour 7£ lbs., \ lb. butter, \ lb. sugar, 2 eggs, 2 ozs. caraway 
seeds, and 1 quart either milk or water. Mix, roll out, and bake 
as directed for thick captains, but in a somewhat cooler oven. 

Penny Arrowroots. 

Flour 8£ lbs., \ lb. butter, \ lb. su?ar, 6 eggs, 2 ozs. arrowroot, 
J oz. volatile, and 1 quart milk. Rub the butter into the flour, 
dissolve the sugar, arrowroot, and volatile in the milk, pour it 
into the flour, and mix as for other hard biscuits ; when ready, 
roll out same as for thick captains, and then cup them upon the 
bottom of a gallipot, bv placing them upon it, and working down 
the sides with the hands until deep enough ; take them off, dock 
them through, bake in a moderate oven. If you wish to cup 
biscuits the same as the more experienced, mould them into the 



Digitized by 



20O 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



shape of a sugar-loaf or cone, with a large base tapering to a 
point ; place the rolling-pin upon the top of this point and press- 
downwards (see illustration), rolling backwards and forwards as- 
you proceed, but don't allow the rolling-pin to go over the sides ; 
turn the biscuit round, and keep the rolling-pin upon the middle, 
until the sides are high enough. 



Flour i\ lbs., i lb. butter, * lb. sugar, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk, and 
piece of volatile as big as a pea. Dissolve the sugar in the milk, 
and mix as tor hard uiscuits ; when ready, roil out into a sheet a 
J inch thick, cut some into strips 1 inch wide, stamp them, and 
cut off with a knife. Cut another portion into £ inch strips, 
stamp, and cut ; make the remainder into various shapes ; into 
fingers by cutting it into long narrow strips, and into shells by 
cutting small round pieces ; then take the extreme edge between 
the thumb and first finger of the left hand, and, with a sharp knife 
or crimping wheel in the right hand, make the ordinary regular 
circles that are upon cockle-shells, etc Bake in a moderate 
oven. 



Flour 1} lb., 2 ozs. butter, 2 ozs. sugar, 2 eggs, and a full gill 
of milk. Rub the butter and flour together. Make a " bay * > 
put in eggs, milk, and sugar ; mix all together, and thoroughly 
knead upon a biscuit-brake or machine. Failing either of these, 
beat it upon the table with a rolling-pin, fold it up and beat it out 
several times, until the " face," or outer surface of the dough, 
is quite smooth. Put it away, covered with a cloth for an hour, 
to allow the various ingredients to become thoroughly amal- 




Yorks. 



Coffee Biscuits. 




THE BAKERS 1 GUIDE. 



201 



gamated . When the dough is nice and mellow, roll it out into a 
sheet, or if it is too large to roll conveniently, cut it into two 
or more parts,- roll these out very thin, and then cut them out 
with the coffee biscuit-cutter, dock, put them upon tins that have 
been dusted very slightly with ground rice (but not buttered) ; 
bake them in a hot oven which will draw or curl them up, cover 
the top with small brown blisters, and x give them a good appear- 
ance. If the stock of biscuit tools does not include a coffee 
biscuit-cutter, when the sheet is rolled thin enough cut it with a 
sharp knife into strips an inch wide, and about three inches long, 
and with a fork prick each biscuit about six times quite through, 
and bake as directed. 

Victoria or Swiss Biscuits* 

Flour 3 lbs., 2 ozs. sugar, 2 ozs. butter, 10 eggs, 2 table-spoon- 
fuls of milk ; prepare the same as for coffee biscuits, but softer'; 
roll very thin, cut out with a round cutter, dock or prick them, 
and bake in a hot oven. These biscuits are delicious with 
coffee, and are suitable for invalids, being very digestible and 
nutritious. 

Bath Oliver Biscuits. 

Milk 1 quart, 1 lb. butter, 2 ozs. yeast, 1 oz. sugar, 6 lbs. fine 
flour. Make the milk warm ; add sugar, yeast, and a handful of 
flour ; mix together, and allow to ferment for an hour or more. 
Rub the butter into the remaining flour, and make into a smooth 
dough ; let this stand two hours, and then roll it very thin in a 
biscuit-machine or with a rolling-pin. Cut the biscuits out with 
a cutter as large as a tea-cup, dock them well through with a 
pricker, place them upon flat baking-tins previously sprinkled 
with water, and wash them over with milk, with an egg-yolk or 
two mixed in it. When the tins are filled, put them in a cupboard 
or drawer for half an hour, and then bake in a cool oven. It is 
of importance to observe that these biscuits must be cut out very 
thin ; the holes made in them by the pricker must be open and 
quite through the biscuit, to allow the gas and steam to escape, 
or they will bulge in the middle and be disfigured. They must 
be well brushed, when being washed over with milk, to give them 
a smooth, bright surface. 

Nursery Biscuits 

Milk 1 pint, 1 pint water, 2 ozs. yeast, 3 eggs, \ lb. sugar, 
6 lbs. flour. Heat the milk and water to 90 0 Fahr. ; add yeast, 
sugar, eggs, and about \ lb. flour, mix together, and put away 
to ferment for two hours. By that time the yeast, having 

o 



Digitized by 



202 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



exhausted the food given to it in the ferment, will cease to work, 
and will, so to speak, be ready for more food. Therefore rub 
butter into the remainder of the flour, add it to the ferment, 
make into a light, spongy dough, and put it away to allow the 
yeast to grow and give off carbonic acid gas, which, being confined 
in the dough, by the glutinous nature of the mass, will make the 
dough very light. When it has reached that stage, break it into 
four or six pieces, mould them, and with a rolling-pin roll into a 
sheet about half an inch thick ; cut out with a plain cutter an 
inch and a half in diameter, place upon baking-tins a quarter of 
an inch apart, and put into a proving cupboard, or some warm, 
moist place out of the draught, to prove and rise. When well 
risen, bake the biscuits in a good sound oven, after which put 
them in a screen, drying-oven, or some warm dry place for several 
hours, to evaporate the moisture, and make them light and easily 
digestible. 

Thin Arrowroots. 

14 lbs. soft whites flour, 2\ lbs. sugar, 2 lbs. margarine, \ lb. 
arrowroot dissolved, 1 oz. soda, 1 oz. cream of tartar, 2 quarts 
milk, \ pint eggs. Mix and brake as usual for hard biscuits } 
roll thin, and bake in sharp oven. 

Ginger Stomachic Biscuits- 

1 lb. castor-sugar, 6 ozs. butter, ij lb. flour, 2 ozs. ground, 
ginger, J oz. sal volatile powdered fine, 2 eggs, gill of milk. Rub 
the butter with flour, make a " bay," add eggs, milk, ginger, 
volatile, and sugar, draw in the flour, make into a smooth dough, 
roll with a rolling pin, cut out into biscuits about £ inch thick, 
put upon a tin, and bake in a sound oven. 

Cracknells* 

4 $ lbs. flour, i lb. sugar, J lb. butter, 1 2 eggs, half-pint milk, 
piece of vol size of pea, rub the butter in the flour, make a bay, 
mix the eggs, milk, sugar, and vol in a basin, give them two or 
three minutes' whisk, pour into the bay, shake up as usual for 
hard biscuits ; the dough should be smooth and spongy ; place 
this upon the break, or under the rollers and well clear it ; roll 
out, to about fifth of an inch thick, dock well, and cut out with 
cutters, oval, leaf, diamond, or round ; lay them out flat as you 
cut them for a minute or two, and then take each biscuit in the 
hand and make them into cup shape by holding them in the left 
hand and pressing -the right thumb into them ; as you cup them, 
drop them into boiling water,— it is usual to have a small copper 
attached to the bakery where these are made, but a saucepan 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



203 



will answer the purpose ; either way see that the water is kept 
boiling ; as the biscuits rise to the top they will be ready to take 
out ; give them just one minute, and then with a wire skimmer 
take them out, and drop into a pail of cold water, let them 
remain covered in this water for three or four hours, drain from 
the water and put on clean greased tins, bake in a hot oven : see 
>that they are well done, but do not perish or burn them. 

Granulated Wheat-meal Digestive Biscuits. 

2 lbs. of granulated wheat-meal, 1 egg, J lb. butter, 2 ozs. of 
sugar, enough carbonate of soda and cream of tartar, each to 
.cover a sixpenny piece, and f pint of milk. Rub the butter, 
flour, soda, and acid well together, make a bay, pour in milk, 
sugar, and eggs ; mix well, make a firm, smooth dough, break 
into two or more pieces for convenient rolling, roll out as thin 
as possible, cut out, put upon tins, and bake crisp in a sound 
oven. The dough when mixed should be kept in a cool place 
for an hour or two to mellow ; it will then roll out freely. Flat 
jtins should be used, so as to ensure baking evenly. 



Rub 12 ozs. lard with lbs. flour, 12 ozs. sugar, ozs. 
ginger, 1 oz. mixed spice, and 2 ozs. bicarb soda ; make a bay, 
and put into it 2 lbs. golden syrup, 4 eggs, and 3 tablespoonfuls 
of milk. Stir these up, then add 12 ozs. sultanas, 12 ozs. of 
peel (cut large), and 8 ozs. currants. Mix the whole together 
into an ordinary soft cake batter ; weigh off in 1 or 2 lb. sizes 
into well-greased square tins, and bake in a cool o* en. It is an 
improvement to the appearance to lay three slices of almond 
on the top when in the tins. 



Take the required quantity of coarse Scotch oatmeal, rub into 
it a small piece of butter, and a little salt, make it into a paste 
with hot water, leave it to absorb the moisture for five minutes, 
sprinkle the board with oatmeal, roll into a round shape — the 
size and thickness of a plate — cut into four quarters, bake on tins 
in sound oven. 

Oatmeal will swell very much in water, and if too tight will not 
bind together, but will crack and break when rolling out, there- 
fore be sure and only make a paste of it at first, and then dry it 
up with oatmeal as you roll it out, 

Note. — All meal goods, oat-cake, etc., require great care in 



Scotch Ginger Cake- 



Oat Cake. 




204 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



baking — the surface, being rough and dry, does not attract the 
heat ; therefore, unless the oven is hot, the biscuit " perishes," 
and becomes flavourless and unpalatable. 

Spice Nuts. 

\\ lb. flour, enough syrup to make a light dough, \ lb. lard, 
f lb. moist sugar, \ oz. ginger, i oz. mixed spice. Rub the lard, 
sugar, ginger, spice, into the flour ; when thoroughly mixed, make 
a bay in the middle, and pour the syrup in and mix.' When 
mixed, with a rolling-pin roll it out into a sheet, dusting it lightly 
with ground rice to prevent sticking, cut out to the size and thick- 
ness of a penny, place them upon well-greased tins, half an inch 
apart, wash them over with water, and bake in a cool oven. 

Snaps. 

7 lbs. flour, 2 ozs, powder (i), 4$ lbs. sugar, if lb. butter, 6 
eggs, 1 oz. ginger, 1 oz. mixed spice, 3 J lbs. golden syrup. Rub 
all the mixture together, except syrup and eggs, make a bay, 
whip the eggs one minute, then add with the syrup soft dough, 
pin out in small pieces about sixth of an inch, cut with snap- 
cutter, wash with water, bake in a cool oven. It will be necessary 
when rolling these to use a little rice flour to keep them from 
sticking. 

German Ginger-Bread. 

Melt 1 lb. of honey in a saucepan. When it is quite hot mix 
into it 6 ozs. moist sugar, 1 oz. of powdered cinnamon, 2 ozs. fine 
cut candied lemon peel, 4 ozs. almonds blanched and chopped, 
and enough flour to make it into a smooth stiff paste, make this 
into cakes of any shape or design, but not thicker than about 
J inch. Bake in a cool oven. 

Jumbles. 

About 4 lbs. syrup, 3 lbs. flour, 3$ lbs. coarse moist sugar, 
£ lb. lard, pinch of spice. Rub the lard, flour, sugar, and spice 
together, add syrup, and mix lightly ; roll out to the thickness of 
a penny, cut with a cutter the size of a teacup, place them upon 
a baking-sheet (well greased and sprinkled) an inch apart, wash 
them over with water, and bake in a cool oven. Jumbles or snaps 
should be very thin, and nearly transparent ; therefore, do not 
work the dough about more than to sufficiently mix the ingre- 
dients, thus leaving the sugar undissolved, so that when subjected 
to the heat of the oven, it will boil up, and form the blistersi 
without which jumbles are imperfect. 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



205 



Ginger-Bread. 

J lb. margarine, 2 eggs, \ lb. chopped peel, \ lb. moist sugar, 
$ oz. powder, syrup or treacle to make firm dough, 2 lb. flour, 
1 oz. ginger. Put the butter, ginger, sugar, and the flour 
together, make a bay or hole in the middle, pour in the syrup, 
add the peel and almonds and a little spice ; knead the whole 
into a firm dough, weigh into 1 or 2 lb. pieces, make them into 
squares, press them or mould upon the usual ginger-bread 
block, or put the squares upon the tin and dock them ; place 
pieces of buttered .wood against each side, firmly fastened to keep 
in position, bake in a cool oven, and when baked, wash over with 
white of egg, which will give a bright gloss. 

This is a new recipe and is given to fill the place of ordinary 
gingerbread, as that contains a large percentage of alum, the use 
of which is destructive to health and in defiance of law. 

Common ''Seedy's." 

$i lbs. flour, 6 ozs. sugar, i lb. butter, 1 oz. of caraway seeds, 
1 oz. powdered vol., about a third of a pint of milk. Rub the 
butter with the flour, put the caraways and sugar in the middle 
of a bay made in the flour, dissolve the vol. in the milk, and mix 
the whole into a smooth dough ; don't work it about and make 
it tough ; cut out i inch thick with round cutters, place on 
greased baking-tins, and bake in a very hot oven. 

Note. — The oven must be hot to drive off" the ammonia. 

Dessert Arrowroot Biscuits- 
Cream up \ lb. of butter, \ lb. sugar, and 5 eggs ; add \ lb. 
flour and i lb. arrowroot, rubbed through a sieve ; mix all care- 
fully into a smooth dough, roll and cut out with a small round 
cutter ; if the dough is too soft to roll with a rolling-pin, take it 
up with a spoon, and drop it upon a buttered tin, and bake in a 
sharp oven. 

Arrowroot Drops. 

i lb sifted arrowroot, 2 ozs. butter, J lb. sugar, 1 large beaten 
egg, 2 ozs. finely chopped peel (lemon), tablespoonful of milk ; 
place these ingredients in a buttered saucepan, and boil them 
slowly, stirring briskly all the time until they appear light ; then 
with a small spoon or savoy bag put pieces about the size of a 
walnut upon a buttered tin, and bake in good oven. 

Cocoanut Drops- 

1 lb. ground or grated cocoanut, ij- lb. castor sugar, and 
yo whites of eggs ; whip the whites as for meringues into a firm 



Digitized by 



ao6 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



snow, then stir in the cocoanut and the sugar together ; when 
mixed, drop them from the savoy bag as for macaroons upon 
wafer paper, and bake in a cool oven. 



\ lb. butter, \ lb. sugar, i lb. flour, 8 yolks of eggs ; cream 
the butter, sugar, and yolk* as for cakes ; flavour with essence 
of vanilla or ratafia; then mix in the flour, and drop them in 
buttons from the savoy bag half an inch apart upon a buttered 
tin, and bake in sound oven. 



Rub the rind of a lemon upon i lb. loaf sugar, then crush it to 
powder; rub 3 ozs. fresh butter into i lb. flour ; make into a 
" bay." Put in the sugar and 3 well-beaten eggs ; mix this into 
a smooth paste, roll out thin with the rolling-pin, cut out with a 
plain cutter, and bake in a moderate oven upon slightly buttered 
tins. 



i lb. butter, J lb. sugar, £ lb. eggs. £ lb. flour, 2 ozs. currants, 
piece of volatile as big as a pea ; cream the butter, sugar, and 
eggs as for cakes ; powder and beat the volatile up with it ; mix 
in flour and currants, but do not work it about much to make it 
tough ; when mixed, put the mixture into the savoy bag, and 
drop in buttons about the size of a halfpenny upon paper laid 
on baking-tins, and bake in a hot oven. 



f lb. flour, } lb. ground rice, i lb. butter, 6 ozs. sugar, 2 eggs* 
a piece of volatile the size of a pea, dissolved in enough milk to 
make the whole into a nice smooth dough or paste. Rub the 
butter, rice, and flour together, make a " bay," put in sugar, milk, 
and egg ; mix these latter ingredients a little, and then mix the 
whole together ; roll out with a rolling-pin, cut out with a plain 
cutter, the size and thickness of a penny, place upon tins, and 
bake in a hot oven. 



2J lbs. flour, ii lb. sugar, £ lb. butter, 3 egg;s, a Kttle milk, 
with a small piece of volatile in it. Mix as for rice-biscuits, roll 
and cut out with a fluted cutter; wash them over thickly with 
yolk of egg, turn them upside down upon a mixture of blanched 



Dessert Biscuits- 



Lemon Biscuits. 



Queen's Drops. 



Rice Biscuits* 



Pavilion Biscuits. 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



207 



almonds and loaf sugar chopped small, slightly press'them, turn 
them over, place upon tins, and bake in a hot oven. " 

Derby Biscuits. 

2 lbs. flour, 1 lb. butter, 1 \ lb. sugar, 3 eggs, 6 drops essence 
of lemon, £ lb. currants, and enough milk to make it into a smooth 
dough. Mix same as for rice-biscuits; roll and cut out with 
a fluted cutter, and bake in a hot oven. This dough will form 
a good basis for several sorts and shapes, etc. When mixed, 
divide it into three or more parts, flavour with cinnamon, lemon, 
vanilla, and some with currants, cut each sort out with different 
shaped cutters, ornament some with neatly cut pieces of angelica, 
and some with " hundreds and thousands," those minute sweets 
of our childhood's days. 

Lemon Drops. 

\\ lb. flour, \ lb. butter, 1 lb. 2 ozs. sugar, 2 eggs, 6 drops 
essence of lemon, piece of volatile as big as a bean dissolved in 
about 4 table-spoonfuls of milk, or enough to make a smooth 
dough. Mix as for rice-biscuits, etc. When mixed, take a piece 
of the dough, lay it upon the board, fold it over, and roll it with 
the hand backwards and forwards upon the board until about the 
thickness of a man's thumb, then cut it into pieces about half an 
inch, place them upon tins upon the cut part, wash over with 
milk, and bake in a cool oven. 

Shrewsbury Biscuits. 

2 lbs. flour, ij lb. butter, 1 \ lb. castor sugar, 4 eggs, pinch of 
powdered cinnamon, gill of milk. Rub the butter and flour 
together, add sugar, eggs, cinnamon, and milk; make into a 
smooth dough, roil thin, cut out with a fluted cutter, bake on tins 
in a sharp oven. 

Small Napoleons. 

1 lb. butter, 1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. eggs, 2\ lbs. flour, \ lb. currants, 
\ pint milk, 2 ozs. chopped almonds, 1 oz. baking-powder, 
cream up as for cake ; put a spoonful into long oval tins (small), 
chopped almonds on top, bake in quick oven. 

Rich Cocoanut Biscuits* 

1 lb. desiccated cocoanut, 1 lb. sugar, 2 ozs. flour. Make into 
soft paste with white of egg ; don't work much ; run from savoy 
bag upon wafer paper; mix with wooden spoons; bake in a 
cool oven. 



Digitized by 



*o8 THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 

DESSERT CREAMS. 

NOTE. — Double Cream — i.e., very thick cream— should 
always be used for whipped creams ; but do not whip 
them too much, or they will be liable to curdle or be- 
come butter. It will be firm enough as soon as it stands 
in the position or shape you place it in. If for a large cream, 
more isinglass or gelatine in proportion must be used ; small ones, 
of course, have much less weight to carry. In adding wines or 
acids, reserve them till just before filling ; they are liable to curdle 
the cream. 

Strawberry Cream. 

Pick the stalks from i lb. strawberries, mash them with- J lb. 
fine sugar, rub them through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon, 
dissolve 2 ozs. gelatine in i pint warm milk ; let this cool a little ; 
whip 1 pint of thick cream, and stir it with the pulp and the 
gelatine solution ; if not dark enough, add few drops of cochi- 
neal, but do not waste much time over this part, the acid from 
the fruit is liable to turn the cream, and the gelatine is set before 
you have moulded the cream ; as soon as mixed put into mould 
or moulds, put on ice to get firm for an hour or so. Raspberry 
and red currant prepare in the same way. If fruit is not obtain- 
able, use 1 lb. of jam, little or no sugar. 

Italian Cream. 

Dissolve 1 oz. isinglass in a table-spoonful of hot milk, make 
a custard with i pint milk, 3 yolks of eggs, 2 ozs. of sugar, stir 
in 4 drops essence of vanilla, ^ glass of brandy, allow to cool a 
little, stir in isinglass and a well-whisked J pint thick cream ; put 
in oiled mould and set on ice. 

French Cream. 

Dissolve 1 pz. gelatine or isinglass in a table-spoonful of hot 
milk, add £ lb. sugar, £ lb. apricot pulp, teaspoonful of lemon 
juice, and lastly 1 J pint cream ; mix carefully, mould, put away 
to set as before. When different colours are required in mould- 
ing, put them in, and let each set firm separately before adding 
the next 

Blancmange. 

Dissolve in 1 quart of warm milk 2 ozs. gelatine or isinglass, 
flavour with the rind of lemon and cinnamon stick, boil up for 
a few minutes, strain or take out the peel and cinnamon, stir in 



Digitized by 



2 HE BAKERS 1 GUIDE. 



209 



a little brandy, a half pint of cream, and pour into moulds and 
allow to -set in a cool place. Oiher flavourings — rose, vanilla, 
orange, etc. — may be substituted for the lemon and cinnamon. 
1 or 2 ozs. of corn may be boiled with milk if preferred, firm 
and thick. 

Lemon Cream. 

Soak 1 oz. of gelatine in a little milk as before directed ; then 
put into a stewpan with £ pint more milk and the rind of five 
lemons ; boil for about five minutes, then strain, add 1 pint 
cream and £ lb. of powdered sugar, the juice of 2 lemons, and 
the yolk of an egg well beaten, and a little egg yellow, to give it 
a lemon colour. Whisk all well till spongy, then put into the 
moulcj. Let flavours be delicate, but pronounced, not insipid. 

ICES. 

The demand for ices is increasing every year ; from being a 
luxury, seen only upon the tables of the rich, they have now 
become a necessity among all classes of society ; and bakers, etc., 
who wish to occupy their time profitably, will do well to consider 
the ways and means of making ice-creams. The process is not 
elaborate, nor are the utensils expensive, and with the recipes 
here given the most inexperienced should be able to make them 
fairly successful. The utensils should consist <|f one or more 
freezers, a tub or tubs to contain them, and a spatula to work 
the ice from the sides into<a smooth mass ; these can be purchased 
now in the form of a machine which contains them all, and is 
fiimple and cheap. If you purpose essaying to try your hand 
send for price lists to firms supplying such goods A few general 
notes or hints will be useful to consider before quantities are given. 
First, if you can purchase and use a saccharometer do so. When ma- 
king up ices from the juices or pulp of fruits, it is extremely difficult 
to secure perfect uniformity, and maintain an unvarying standard 
without it. When using the thermometer, from 19 to 21 degrees 
of strength of the fruit syrup will be found the best, and used in con- 
junction with clarified sugar (see " Clarified Sugar n ) there should 
not be much fluctuation ; without it the palate must be your 
guide. Make them nice ; but if too rich in sugar and fruit they 
will not freeze well ; if too poor, they will resemble frozen snow 
and be tasteless. It will be necessary in nearly every case to use 
essences to perfect the colour 01 flavour ; use sparingly, coarse 
flavourings offend refined palates and vulgar colours the eye. Be 
careful that the salt you use in freezing does not by any chance 
touch the cream : it will spoil it entirely. When turning the 
freezer, if the rough ice around it is melting and sloppy, draw off 
the. water and re-pack. When you turn out ice-puddings, etc.% 



Digitized by 



2IO 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



from moulds, carefully wipe all the salt and moisture from 
the outside before taking off the covers. To preserve the rough 
block ice not in use, bury in sawdust and cover with paper and 
flannel. To cut up for use, use an ice-piercer (a long stout 
needle fixed in a handle) ; dig this once or twice in the part you 
want to break, and the piece will break off without waste. To 
pack the tub for freezing use three parts of crushed or small 
pieces of ice and one part coarse freezing salt — ordinary salt will 
do if it is inconvenient to obtain others. 

Strawberry Water Ice. 

To i quart of water, add the pulp from \ lb. strawberries, or 
} lb strawberry jam ; the juice of 2 lemons, and clarified syrup to 
taste. If not strong enough of strawberry flavouring, use a drop 
or two of strawberry essence, also deepen colour with a few drops 
of cochineal. Strain through a sieve and freeze. Don't forget 
the note about richness ; whatever taste or flavour it has before 
going into the freezer, it will have when frozen. When ready, 
place in the freezer ; put the lid on, pack it well round, and give 
it a few minutes' brisk turning; take off the lid if it is a hand 
freezer, and use the spatula to scrape it down from the sides ; 
with the lid off, give it another few minutes' brisk turning, by 
taking hold of the top with thumb and fingers of one hand and 
giving it a sharrF twist round. As the ice forms inside, work it 
down with the spatula until the whole is a smooth firm mass ; 
cover up, and it will be ready for use. During the time of 
portioning it out to buyers, give it an occasional work down witb 
the spatula. 

Lemon Water. 

Rub the rind of 2 lemons on sugar, dissolve them in i pint 
of water ; add 1 pint syrup, the juice of 1 orange, the juice of 
6 lemons ; mix, strain, and freeze as before directed. Currants, 
cherries, gooseberries, and other fruits may be prepared in the 
same way, by mashing, if soft, in cold water, or pulping them by 
boiling thereafter, straining and flavouring. If any fruit ice 
should not be acid enough, use a little lemon juice or a pinch 
of citric acid. A couple of whisked whites of eggs, or 1 oz. 
dissolved gelatine whisked, and added to water ices when freez- 
ing, is said by some to give it more body. 

To Clarify Sugar for Simple Syrup. 

Add to 3 \ lbs. sugar, 2 pints water, mix together, dissolve, 
and boil gently for 5 or 6 minutes, skim off the dross or scuro 
as it rises, and when cold keep in a bottle for use as required. 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



21 1 



Cream Ices* 



Neapolitan ices are made by preparing different kinds of ices 
and moulding them together. Boil i lb. good rice in i pint milk 
until quite soft, add i pint cream and stick of vanilla ; boil one 
minute and let cool ; then drain off the thin part, put 8 yolks 
with it, stir with a wooden spoon over the fire until it thickens, 
it must not boil, let it cool, and then add i pint double whipped 
cream ; mix, and put one-third of this with the rice that was left 
in the pot ; take out the vanilla and freeze this as usual. When 
nicely frozen and smooth, put this into Neapolitan moulds ; these 
are very small moulds that open at the* side; place these in the 
ice pail, packed up with ice until required ; then dish them up 
with the remainder of the cream that was left. 



Yolks of 8 eggs, small glass cold water, gill of maraschino 
(liqueur) ; mix these together, and add syrup sufficient to make 
it sweet — a nice piquant sweetness that you like to taste twice. 
Place this in stewpan on the fire, and whisk it until it comes to 
a thick cream-like appearance ; don't let it boil ; take it off the 
fire, give it five minutes' brisk whipping with the whisk ; when 
very light put it into the freezer, cover with a cloth, let it cfcol, 
then stand the freezer in ice for three or four hoys till wanted. 
When frozen some of this can be mixed with other ice, take it 
carefully out of the middle, and put in the place you have taken 
it from an ice of different flavour and colour. 



i pint cream, 3 eggs, £ lb* sugar, 6 drops essence of vanilla ; 
break the yolks up slightly, put the sugar in, beat them a little 
till smooth, whisk the whites separately to a froth, then add 
them to the yolk and Sugar ; now mix this with the cream and 
flavouring, whisk, place akpgether in the pan and simmer as 
before*, when ready rub mrough hair sieve, allow to cool, then 
freeze it in the usual manner by taking the chilled cream, put 
in a freezer, cover, put the freezer in the freezing tub, well pack 
round with 1 part salt, 3 parts ice, occasionally sprinkle a handful 
of salt on the ice while freezing, give a few turns and work it down 
smooth with the spattle ; then turn until the cream is frozen even 
and smooth all through. If the ice is sloppy, draw some water 
off, re-pack- with fresh ice and salt, cover up well ; then put a 
blanket or cloth that has been wetted with the salt ice water you 
have drawn off, all round it, and leave about two hours to 
perfect. If to be sold in moulds, and of different colours, lay 
layer upon layer, fill them quite full, pressing the cream into all 



Neapolitan (2). 



Neapolitan (3). 




212 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



the corners, fasten the cover on firmly, cover the mould with 
paper, and bury in the usual mixture of ice and salt. This 
must stand an hour or two ; when required, take the mould out 
of the ice, wipe or wash off the brine by quickly dipping in cold 
water, wipe it dry, lift off the cover, take out the pins if it is in 
parts, and in a minute or two it will be easy to slip it out on its 
dish. 

Ice Pudding. 

Make a rich custard with i pint milk, yolks of 6 eggs, 3 ozs. 
sugar, 6 drops vanilla ; when the custard is ready, add 1 pint 
cream and gill of maraschino, freeze in the usual way ; have ready 
the moulds, and some dried fruits, some sponge cake moistened 
in cream or milk, put a layer of the frozen custard in first, and 
then alternate layers of slices of sponge cake, custard, and fruit 
until quite full ; put the cover on, embed in ice, and pack, wipe, 
and turn out as before directed. An assortment of small 
dried fruits, mixed into the frozen custard, and moulded, make 
a nice pudding without the sponge cake, being much easier to 
make. 

Coffee Ice Cream. 

Flavour a pint of boiling milk with good essence of coffee, or 
(if preferred) some strong, freshly-made coffee, £lb. sugar, 6 yolks 
of eggs, simmer gently as for custard ; when it thickens, add 
1 pint of good cream, stir for one minute over the fire, and when 
cool freeze in the usual way. 

Chocolate Cream. 

Dissolve \ lb. of best chocolate in \ pint boiling milk, add 
i£ pint cream and \ lb. sugar ; boil until the sugar is melted ; 
strain through hair-sieve ; when cold, freeze in the usual way. 
If to be moulded, while freezing work until smooth, put it in 
the mould, keep in ice until wanted, turn out as directed. 
1 Note. — All cooked creams or custards for ices must be quite 
cold, before being frozen ; they are apt to curdle, besides losing 
flavour, if put in warm. 

Vanilla Ice Cream, Cheap Shop Sale- 

Well whisk 8 eggs, put them with 3 pints milk, 1 pint cream, 
8 drops vanilla, 14 ozs. sugar, 2 ozs. of quite fresh butter ; mix 
together in the boiling pan, and bring to boiling point in the 
usual way ; keep the custard well stirred from the bottom, and 
when it is thick, ,strain it through sieve into freezer, let it cool, 
freeze as directed. * 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



213 



Note. — These are a few examples that cover nearly the whole 
of the principles that govern ice-making. You will gather from 
them all that is necessary for ordinary occasions. First, observe 
that eggs, and creams or milk, have to be made into a custard 
by cooking ; and that the difference between a plain and a rich 
ice lies chiefly in the ingredients and not in the preparation ; less 
Or more eggs, milk instead of cream, with added cornstarch and 
gelatine to give body, will make all the difference ; raspberry and 
strawberry flavouring substituted for fruit, and a pinch of citric 
acid in lieu of lemons, cheapen a mixture very much. By 
having in remembrance the note at the beginning of this article . 
about the working of poor and rich mixtures, you will be fairly 
safe. There is a very good thing in. this line that is quite new 
that I must find space for. When travelling through the United 
States of America I came across, especially in the cities of New 
York and Columbus, a kind of frozen meringue mixture, the 
recipe for which is very simple : Whip some cream stiffly, flavour, 
colour and sweeten, with any sort of essence, cordial, or liquor. 
This is put into small fancy tankards (heaped up), and then put 
into the refrigerator (or freezing cupboard) to freeze without any 
further working. In some cases this was blended with one-third 
of whites of eggs whisked to a snow. 

BOILED SUGAR GOODS. 

THE Bakers' Guide finds its way into many places where it 
may not be convenient to purchase such articles. To 
meet such cases the annexed recipes are given. The in- 
structions are of the briefest kind, and will serve only for 
a foundation or for practice. The most minute description of 
the various degrees given by sugar boilers as separating or de- 
fining the different stages through which boiled sugar passes 
would avail little. You must by patient observation and 
experience (with sugar as with flour, etc.) work out from within 
yourself the required knowledge, by touch, sight, smell, taste 
and instinct. 

The Degrees in Sugar Boiling. 

Having made up a good fire, with either coke or charcoal, and 
allowed it to burn fairly clear, put into the preserving-pan as 
much refined sugar as you need for the work in hand, allow not 
quite half a pint of water for every pound of sugar, and a 
pinch of cream of tartar, place this on the fire, stir all together. If 
the fire is very hot, pull it a little to one side, do not let it boil 
until the sugar is dissolved, then , let it boil rapidly ; carefully 
skim all the dross or scum off that rises to the top ; let it boil, 



Digitized by 



'2 1 4 



.THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



dip your finger in cold water, and quickly nip a little sugar out ; 
press finger and thumb together, and open them again quickly — 
if the sugar forms thin threads that is the first degree, called 
candy ; boil this candied sugar (this is suitable for candies) a min- 
ute or two longer, until the sugar taken in the skimmer and blown 
forms into bubbles or bladders — that is called the blown degree ; 
boil this (blown sugar) another minute, try again — if when you 
jerk the skimmer from you the sugar flies off in flakes, it has 
then attained what is called the third degree or feather ; boil the 
sugar still another minute, just time enough for you to draw 
some cold water; put a stick in the sugar, and then put it 
quickly into the cold water — if it becomes quite hard directly, 
it is then the fourth degree or crack (this is suitable for making 
barley sugar) ; but when for barley sugar throw in pinch of citric 
acid or juice of a lemon, and be sure the water is perfectly cold 
when you put the sugared stick into it. To arrive at the last 
stage called the caramel degree, boil the sugar a little longer ; 
put a little into cold water, and if it cracks like glass it is then 
the required degree. These are the rule of thumb tests. If you 
get a thermometer and ascertain the degree to boil to for the 
goods you are making there is no reason why you should make 
better goods in a year with it than in five, without it. The 
candy degree is 230 Fahr. to 250 Fahr.; fondant, 24oFahr. ; crack 
for drops, 320 Fahr. ; caramel, 350 Fahr. 



Acidulated drops, tablets, coloured or white drops, with nearly 
any flavouring, may be made from the following : 5 lbs. sugar, 
\ oz. cream of tartar, \ oz. tartaric acid, pint of water, and 
what flavouring essence and colour you may require ; boil up 
sugar and water as directed, dissolve the cream of tartar in a 
table-spoonful of water, throw into pan, and boil to '* crack" 
320 Fahr. ; pour upon a well-oiled slab, let it cool sufficiently to 
work in the colouring, flavouring whatever you have ready, and 
the tartaric acid (don't overdo the colour and flavour) ; and 
when getting firm enough, put in pieces through the drop- 
machine (these are not dear) ; dust with fine white sugar, and 
pack in air-tight tins. 



3 lbs. sugar, pint of water, i oz. cream of tartar ; boil as the 
preceding, to crack ; add i lb. good sweet butter and a tea- 
spoonful essence of raspberry ; as soon as mixed in pour into 
moulds ; when cold, wrap up in the usual way in waxed paper, 
tinfoil, etc. 



Drops- 



Boston Butter Scotch. 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



Barley Sugar. 

Boil and clarify, ,as directed, as much sugar as you require, say 
4 lbs., a pint of water, \ oz. cream of tartar, teaspoonful essence 
of lemon ; when commencing to boil, mix the cream of tartar in 
& table-spoonful of water, and put in pan ; boil up to crack, mix 
in flavouring, turn out on a well-oiled slab, let it cool sufficiently 
to take in hands ; cut in strips (use the scissors) 6 inches long, 
i inch wide \ take each end between thumb and finger, and twist 
in opposite directions ; stand upright in air-tight tins. A nice 
falace sweet is made by dipping cut slices of candied peel in this 
boiling. 

Horehound Candy. 

Make i pint of strong decoction of horehound by pouring 
scalding water on ; and then, boiling up two minutes, strain, and 
put this with 2 lbs. sugar into the pan ; boil as before directed 
for candy (250 Fahr). 

Black Currant Lozenges. 

Mix \ lb. sugar with \ pint of juice, dissolve 1 oz. gelatine ; 
just simmer the whole in a pan for twenty minutes ; pour in thin 
layers in tins about \ inch thick ; when nearly cold, stamp out 
Bmall oval or round shapes ; slightly dust with fine sugar, and 
pack in boxes. 

Cough Lozenges* 

Dissolve 1 lb. liquorice in a pint of water, \ teaspoonful tartaric 
acid, teaspoonful oil of anise-seed, teaspoonful powdered ipeca- 
cuanha; make the liquorice and water into a thick gum with 
powdered gum-arabic, and then mix the whole into a stiff paste 
with fine sugar ; work this up, cut out, dry, and pack. 

Good Cough Drops* 

Make a strong decoction of horehound, about 2 ozs. herb to 
£ pint of water ; when boiled five or ten minutes, strain, make 
into 1 pint with water ; add 7 lbs. sugar, \ oz. cream of tartar 
as for other boilings ; keep stirring while boiling up to crack 
(320 degrees), let it cool quickly, work into it on the oiled slab 
table-spoonful of oil anise-seed, 12 drops oil of peppermint, ijoz. 
tartaric acid ; cut out as for drop goods. 

Prize Butterscotch. 

1 lb. fresh butter, 1 lb. sugar ; \ pint cream ; boil to hard 
ball (2502 F).; be careful ; it will burn quickly. 



Digitized by 



ai6 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



BUNS, SCONES, Etc. 
Helensburgh Scones. 

FINE white flour, 4 lbs. ; 1 lb. good butter, \ lb. sugar, r 
pinch salt, 1 quart sour milk, \ lb. powder ; rub all 
together thoroughly, make a bay, pour the milk in, rub it 
up well and quickly, weigh into pieces of 14 ozs. each, 
roll them out about 6 inches in diameter, dock, break each 
piece into four, roll them round, slightly flatten, and bake on an 
iron bottom ; when partially baked, turn them over and finish in 
a sharp oven. 

Scotch Soda Scones* 

2 lbs. flour, \ lb. butter or lard, a teaspoonful of salt, \\ oz, 
powder, 1 pint of milk or butter-milk ; rub the butter and flour 
together ; make a " bay," pour in milk, add salt, mix lightly and 
quickly, divide into four pieces, mould into round balls, and 
roll with rolling-pin to the size of a small plate ; dock them with 
a " docker," cut into quarters, place together again, wash over 
with yolk, and bake in hot oven. 

Brown and whole-meal scones are made in the same way, and 
are usually very much liked. 

All plain soda goods should be baked in a good hot oven. 

Cream Scones* 

2 lbs. fine flour, £ lb. sugar, pint milk (if sour or curdled, it 
will rather improve the lightness), J lb. salt butter, and 2 ozs. of 
powder : mix the butter, flour, and the powder together, and rub 
fine ; make a " bay," put the milk in and mix quickly and lightly 
into a dough ; break this in eight parts, mould them, and roll 
out about the size of smallest piate \ wash over with yolk of egg y 
place upon a buttered tin, and put them into a hot oven ; when 
they are just beginning to brown, take them out, and with a thin 
flat knife turn them over quickly, and then back into the oven 
until baked. Do not allow them to be done before turning them, 
as that will spoil the " finish," but about half done, and then turn 
them over to finish baking. 

Scones, London Fermented* 

1 pint milk, 1 pint water, made warm ; add 1 oz. yeast, 3 ozs. 
sugar, and 2 handfuls of flour ; put away to ferment ; when ready 
rub I lb. butter, 1 oz. powder, teaspoonful of salt into enough fine 
flour to make a free soft dough (it will take 4 lbs. altogether), 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



217 



weigh into 14 oz. pieces, roll out and cut in quarters as before, 
place upon baking-tins, and put in the proving cupboard to prove 
until quite light, then bake in a good sound oven. All scones 
should be washed over with egg and milk before baked. 



1 pint milk, 1 pint water, 1 lb. sugar, \ lb. butter, 2 eggs, 4^ 
Jbs. flour, \ lb. currants, \ lb. peel chopped fine, \ lb. sultanas, 
3 ozs. dried yeast, 4 drops of spice ; make the milk and water 
warm (90 degs.), dissolve into it \ lb. of the sugar, yeast, eggs, 
And J lb. of the flour ; mix together, and set to ferment in a 
warm place (not hot) for about 2 hours ; when it settles down it 
is ready. Having rubbed the butter with the rest of the flour, 
make into a light dough, adding fruit, peel, the other \ lb. sugar, 
jetc. ; put this to prove, covered from the air, for another hour 
— it will then be ready for moulding. Break into pieces, 2 to 
3 ozs. each, which should be moulded round, and placed upon 
tins an inch apart ; then put to rise in a moist, warm place, 
until light enough for baking, which will be in about half an 
hour ; bake in a warm oven ; when baked, wash over with milk 
sweetened, and an egg in it — this will give them a glossy 
appearance. 



3 eggs, 1 pint milk, 1 pint water, 1 lb. sugar, } lb. butter, 
3 ozs. dried yeast, and about $\ to 5 lbs. flour ; ferment the same 
as for buns. When the dough is ready, weigh into pieces of 
1 lb. each, fold them into squares, and let them prove 5 minutes; 
then carefully fold and roll them into long rolls of about twelve 
inches, put them upon tins to prove, and when well risen bake 
thoroughly, but not too brown ; and on the morrow cut them 
into thin slices with a sharp knife, lay upon tins, and put them 
into a hot oven ; when brown or toasted, turn them over. For 
Dutch rusks roll 1 oz. pieces round like buns ; prove and bake ; 
when cold, cut in half through top and bottom, and toast in good 
Jieat. 



Set a ferment with \ pint milk, \ pint water (at 90 0 ), 2 ozs. 
sugar, 2 ozs. yeast, 2 ozs. flour; when subsiding, rub 3 ozs. 
butter into 2 lbs. flour, essence of lemon, and make dough ; put 
this to prove in a warm place for an hour ; then chop into it 
roughly and not too much, 3 egg yolks, \ lb. rough pieces lump 
sugar, 2 ozs. fine peel, 2 ozs. sultanas, and at once put them on 
baking sheets with a fork in rough pieces of 2 ozs. each ; prove 
slightly, lay 3 comfits on top, dredge with sugar, and bake. 



Buns- 



Busks' 



Bath Buns- 



p 




218 THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



Good Friday Crossed Buns* 



The practice of eating hot cross buns on Good Friday 
has become a national custom, from which there are very 
few abstainers. These buns are in universal request, and 
welcomed alike in palace and cottage. The antipathy of a 
certain section of the Christian community to crosses in 
general has not stopped short of the cross upon the Good 
Friday bun, which, if eaten at all, is eaten minus the. cross. 
This slight defection, however, of a small proportion of the host 
of consumers is more than compensated for by the tenacity with 
which the rising generation "cling to the cross," not so much, 
perhaps, from any particular religiousness on their part, as from 
the fact that the cross upon the outside generally means more 
plums inside ; and further, if there were no cross it is very pro- 
bable there would be no bun. 

There is no fixed formula for making hot cross buns, and hence 
the recipes differ according to the town or district where they are 
produced ; but the following is the recognised mode among 
London bakers, differing only in richness of material and quality 
of workmanship. I would remind bakers, and those who cater 
for the public, that of late years there has been a loud protest 
from the upper classes of society against the too lavish use of 
spice. This has not been without reason, for some of the buns 
to be seen in shop windows look as though they had been freely 
impregnated with black pepper. In the following recipe I have 
given essence of spice, as I consider it much the best ; but if it is 
not convenient to obtain this, a very little of the best mixed spice 
will suffice. 

A 5-quart mixture will make about 25 dozen penny buns, 1 
dozen out of 2 lbs. 2 ozs., and, as this is a convenient-sized batch 
for small bakers employing only two or three men, I will give the 
ingredients for this quantity, which, of course, can be doubled or 
divided to suit the worker ; and if I supplement this by saying 
that 85 quarts will make about 5,000 penny buns at the above 
weight, and that the same proportions and directions should be 
observed, this will afford scope for any quantity 



2 quarts of water, 3 quarts of milk, 6 eggs, 6 lbs. of fruit 
(sultanas, currants, and finely chopped mixed peel), 3 lbs. of 
butter, 4% lbs. of sugar, 12 drops W. J. Bush & Co.'s oil of bun 
spice (not more), f lb. of French yeast, and about 20 lbs. of fine 
flour. Put away a ferment prepared as follows : Heat the milk 



Becipe for Crossed Buns- 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



219 



and water to 90 0 , crack the eggs into it, add half of the sugar, 
yeast and about \ lb. of flour ; m»x this carefully, and cover up the 
pan in a warm place ; this will take about three hours. When it 
is ready, add the spice, rub the butter into the flour, add the 
fruit and the rest of the sugar, and make the whole into a 
weak dough ; cover this up for an hour ; it should then be 
" full proof " ; if not, leave it a little longer, for it is important that 
there should be plenty of gas to raise so rich a mixture. When it 
is well risen weigh off in 2 lbs. 2 oz. pieces, u hand " these up 
nice and dry in flour, and cover them up from the air, have the 
tins ready, well cleaned, buttered, and warmed, break twelve out 
of each of these pieces, mould, tin them about an inch apart, and 
put them away in a warm moist place with plenty of steam 
(usually a proving cupboard, or the trough where the bread dough 
is made) ; let them stand until about half-proved, then cross 
them. The crosses should be cut in deeply, because if too 
superficial, when the bun is more risen, the cross will be oblite- 
rated. When they are crossed, put them back again to finish 
proving ; when nice and light, bake them in a good sound oven. 
The oven should be made hot, and then allowed to remain a 
quarter of an hour before the buns are put into it ; if the oven is 
too hot and rash, it will burn or scorch them ; on the other hand, 
if it is a cold, dead heat, it will destroy both appearance and 
flavour. When baked, wash the buns over with a wash made 
with 1 quart of water, 1 tin of condensed milk, and 2 eggs. 

Some bakers, when manufacturing large quantities of buns, put 
away large ferments without flour, sometimes with potatoes, some- 
times with a part patent yeast, dipping a quart or two into the 
ferment when set — thus saving time and being more convenient, 
and making a large and clear bun. These buns are very rich, 
consequently should be worked warm and free ; therefore 
no larger quantity should be put in hand than the plant and 
staff engaged are able to cope with. 

PETIT CHOUX PASTE, ECLAIRS, AND CREAM 

BUNS. 

TESE are made from a batter, which, as in the case 
of Derby wine biscuit, dough and Genoese pastry, may 
become the basis from which are worked out several very 
ornamental dishes of light, digestive, and highly delicious 
buns or cakes. They are very nice with any kind of preserve ; 
whipped, sweetened and flavoured cream ; chocolate, custard, 
sultanas or raisins, and can be flavoured with either essence 



Digitized by 



220 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



of lemon, orange, vanilla, or powdered cinnamon. Prepare 
as follows : i pint water, \ lb. butter, \ lb. flour, 9 eggs. Put 
the water into a stewpan large enongh to allow for stirring, and 
let it boil up. Stir in the butter, and if any fruit is required, put 
it in at this stage, and boil up again. When boiling, add the 
flour and boil again, keeping it slowly stirred all the time after 
the flour is in. Stand the stewpan on one side for four or 
rive minutes, then well beat in the eggs one at a time, and it will 
be ready for baking. Run out of the savoy bag in fingers and 
round pieces size of half-a-crown upon a baking-sheet, and bake 
in a good " sound oven " for fancy varieties. When nearly done 
take some out and sprinkle with powdered loaf sugar, then 
sprinkle with water, and put them quickly back into the oven until 
the sugar is melted, and becomes set in bright glossy flakes or 
bubbles ; they will then be ready. When cold, make an incision 
in the side and put in any kind of preserve or cream ; wash them 
over with egg. Sprinkle them over with finely chopped almonds 
and loaf sugar, as for pavilion biscuitu. Moisten this with some of 
the egg wash by shaking the brush over them, and bake them 
slowly a bright golden brown. Or bake them quite plain, and 
when baked, scoop a small circular hole out of the top of each ; fill 
the hole with whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured ; pipe round 
the outer edge with white and pink icing sugar, and place a small 
bright glazed fruit on the centre of the cream. Or glaze them 
with melted chocolate, add it to fondant, work together over the 
fire for a minute ; add 6 drops essence of vanilla. Stand it near 
the fire, or on the hot plate, to keep it warm, and dip the top into 
this mixture, and put it into the oven for two minutes to make 
shine. 

Cream Buns. — The same mixture, but add a piece of 
ammonia as big as a pea, and bake them under tins. 



Ferment, as for ordinary buns, 1 pint milk, J lb. sugar, 2 ozs. 
yeast, 6 yolks, handful of flour; when ready, rub \ lb. butter in 
about \\ lb. of flour, 6 drops essence of lemon in ferment, and 
tablespoonful of weak egg yellow ; mix, and make into light 
dough ; give this one hour's proof ; roll it out to about \ inch, 
put i lb. sugar in dredger, dredge a little on the dough, spread 
the dough with 6 ozs good butter, fold it up as for puff paste, 
and roll out twice or three times ; roll it up after this (the same 
as for any jam roll) to i£ inches in diameter ; cat this up in 
pieces of one inch, and stand them close together, cut sides 
downwards, on buttered tin ; prove, wash over, and dredge with 
sugar ; bake in a steady oven. They are best sugared when 
half baked. 



Chelsea Buns* 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



221 



Cinnamon Biscuits. 

Beat 8 eggs with i lb. sugar, £ oz. of powdered cinnamon ; 
make into a firm paste with about i lb. of fine flour ; roll out 
thin ; cut out with fancy shaped cutters, and bake on a buttered 
baking sheet. 

Gocoanut Biscuits, 

i lb. sugar, $ lb. desiccated cocoanut, the whites of 7 eggs ; 
beat the whites to a firm snow as for meringues, add the sugar 
and cocoanut, make into small round balls, place them upon 
wafer paper on a flat tin, sift fine sugar over them, and bake in 
a cool oven. 

Dessert Biscuits* 

Cream as for cakes, i lb. fresh butter, and i lb. sugar* 6 yolks 
of eggs ; flavour with any of the essences as desired; then mix 
in carefully 1 lb. Hungarian flour — it will be then about the con- 
sistency of queen's drops ; run them out of the savoy bag upon 
paper as queen's drops, and bake in a sharp oven ; if too stiff to 
flow from the bag, roll with pin, and cut out with fancy-shape 
cutters. 

Ice Wafers. 

Well beat 6 eggs, add 1 lb. sugar, 12 drops essence of vanilla, 
3 pints milk, f lb. flour, and bake in usual way ; make the wafer 
irons hot, butter them, put the mixture and close the irons ; put 
on fire ; turn, when done, on other side. 

Cream Slices* 

Base : — 2 lb. flour, f lb. butter, 1 lb. sugar, 6 eggs, £ oz. baking 
powder, 6 drops essence of lemon ; rub fritter and sugar together, 
and mix tne whole into a short, dry dough ; roll £ inch thick, cut 
into strips of 3 inches wide, and bake in good heat — not hard. 
Then prepare a meringue, by whipping to a stiff snow 18 whites of 
eggs ; add while whipping, a sprinkle at a time, 2 lbs. sugar ; 
when stiff, take the baked strips of sweet paste, spread them with 
preserve, and then lay on them the meringue, and with a knife 
scoop it up each side to a point ; let it be 2 inches thick in the 
middle, starting from nothing at the sides. Sprinkle with 
cocoanut (cut fine), dust with castor sugar, and put into oven to 
brown a minute or two ; when brown, cut in 1 inch slices with a 
knife dipped in water. 

Chocolate Dessert Biscuits- 

i lb. sugar, 6 ozs. ground almonds, 2 ozs. melted chocolate, 
2 ozs. flour ; mix to a firm dough with whites of eggs, cut out 



Digitized by 



222 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



with i£ inch cutter, dust well with icing sugar, and bake in cool 
oven. 

Crescent Dessert Biscuits- 

£ lb. flour, 6 ozs. sugar, \ lb. butter, 4 yolks, the grated rind of 
lemon, ammonia size of pea ; rub sugar, butter, and flour to- 
gether, add other ingredients, mix into smooth dough, roll £ inch ; 
cut out with 2 inch cutter, then with 1 inch cutter cut out one 
side, leaving form of crescent. Make a thin paste with icing 
sugar and whites of eggs, lay it on with brush, and bake in cool 
oven. Colour some of the icing pink. 

Aniseed Biscuits. 

i£ lb. sugar, 1 J lb. flour, 12 eggs, 2 ozs. aniseed, \ oz. am- 
monia ; whip up as for sponge cake, mix in flour, and drop about 
size of half-crown on nicely prepared waxed, floured tins ; dust 
with sugar before baking. 

Russian Paste. 

2 lbs. flour, 2 lbs. sugar, 2 lbs. eggs, 3 lbs. flour, 1 oz. powder; 
cream butter and sugar and eggs as for cakes, and add flour and 
powder, mix in ; take off one-third and stir into it 2 ozs. melted 
chocolate, one-third colour pink, and then put each colour alternate 
and roughly one upon the other in veins, and bake. When cold 
cut in fingers, glaze top with apricot preserve, and the extreme 
end of top in fine cut cocoanut. 

Easpberry Buns- 

f lb. sugar, \ lb. butter, 4 lbs. flour rubbed fine 5 add 4 eggs, 
\ oz. powder, and enough milk to make soft dough ; roll round 
pieces about 2 ozs. each, put a spot of raspberry jam on top, pinch 
the dough up round it to enclose it, wash over top, dip in castor 
sugar, and bake in good heat. 

Lemon Honey Cheese Curd. 

1. — Put into a stewpan on a slow fire 1 lb. sweet butter, 2 J lb. 
sugar, 30 eggs, juice of 6 lemons, the zest rubbed off rind of 3, 
and put over gas or fire until quite thick ; do not burn. 

2. — 9 yolks, 1 lb. suear, 6 ozs. butter, juice of 4 lemons, 1 zest ; 
proceed same. It will burn quickly, and must be on a very slow 
fire. 

Halfpenny Bice Cakes. 

1 lb. margarine, \\ lb. sugar, 5 lbs. flour, 6 eggs, 1 \ pints milk, 
5 ozs. powder ; rub the butter, sugar, powder and flour up fine, 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



add eggs and milk, mix quickly ; mould in little balls, wash over 
with milk ; dip tops in either cocoanut or granulated sugar, and 
bake in good heat. 

Almond Dessert Biscuits (Parisian Biscuits). 

2 \ lbs. sugar, i lb. ground almonds, 3 ozs. flour, and whites of 
eggs to make it into a dough stiffer than macaroons — just stiff 
enough to force through a star tube on to wafer paper, and keep 
its shape ; make a variety of shapes. Melt some chocolate, 
and mix with a little of the mixture ; put this through a smaller 
tube, on to rings, etc., from larger tube (about \ inch, squeezed 
out), and ornament these chocolate dots with pieces of dried 
cherries, etc. Force three pieces together to resemble a cluster 
of filberts, and ornament with cut almonds. When the mixture 
is all run out, put the tins aside for a few hours to dry, and then 
slowly bake in cool oven. 

TO MAKE FONDANT. 

FOR glace work, etc., 7 lbs. sugar (the best loaf or Dutch 
crushed, 2 \ lbs. water, J oz. cream of tartar, or 1 lb. glucose 
(liquid glucose is more reliable than the dry solid). Glucose 
is not crystallizable, and therefore its use is two-fold — by 
preventing the too rapid crystallization of the boiling sugar, and 
giving more gloss to the glac6d goods. The use of cream of 
tartar is to prevent the too rapid crystallization of the boiling 
sugar ; dissolve in a table-spoonful of water, and put it in as 
soon as the sugar begins to boil. Proceed to make the fondant 
by putting the water and sugar together into a stewpan or sugar- 
boiler, place on one side of fire, and stir slowly until the sugar 
is quite dissolved, but do not let it boil. It must be quite 
dissolved before commencing to boil. Then boil up rapidly on a 
fierce, clear fire. As soon as it begins to boil, dip your fingers 
into water and pass them round the inside of the boiler to wash 
down the dry crystals that have formed there by the water from 
the boiling sugar being evaporated by the hot sides, if they 
were to remain there, the fondant would be "grained" or 
crystallized, and therefore no good. When it has been boiling 
three or four minutes, and begins to throw up little pearling 
beads, dip a finger into cold water, and rapidly dip the finger into 
the boiling sugar and take up a little, gather it between thumb 
and finger, and if it forms a soft ball it is ready. Try with a 
thermometer, and when it registers over 235° Fahr., it is ready. 
It must not exceed 240 0 Fahr. When boiling, before it is ready, 
and after the sides are washed down with water, put the lid on for 



™ Digitized by Google 



3*4 THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



a minute, so that the rising steam will be kept in and condense on 
lid and sides, and run down into the sugar, and by so doing 
ensure washing off the sides the forming crystals, which are so 
dangerous, by preventing smooth fondant. When boiled enough, 
have ready a slab, with pieces of square inch iron bars laid round 
to prevent the sugar running off, then sprinkle the slab with 
water, and pour the boiling sugar on to it, allow to cool for five 
minutes, and then with a good sized wood spatula work about it 
rapidly, gathering it up from the sides into the middle repeatedly : 
work hard upon it until it turns into a white smooth mass like 
butter. 

Note. — The lower the degree, 230 0 (so as to obtain smooth 
fondant), the more work must be put into it, but the better 
fondant will result in its being softer and more glossy and fine* 
in grain. The more it is boiled, and the hotter it is worked up 
after poured on to slab, the quicker it will cream up, but 
the coarser will be the grain and harder. Where it quickly 
forms a crust while cooling upon the slab, let cool ioo°, sprinkle 
over with water before beginning to work up. 

When using fondant for glac6 put the quantity required into 
stewpan and slowly warm it to about 8o° or 90 0 . It must never 
boil or get very hot after it is made, or it will be altered to anothef 
kind of boiled sugar, and be no good for this work. Then dip the 
article into it, or pour it over if it is large, and put the goods 
quickly into a drying oven, or mouth of oven, for a minute to ; 
make the gloss perfect. If the fondant is too stiff when melted, 
reduce it with a little syrup (clarified sugar), which you shouid 
always have ready. 

For chocolate glac6 melt about one part unsweetened best con- 
fectioners' chocolate to two parts fondant, and when both are 
melted, mix together. If good chocolate is used, it will melt like 
butter. Add any other colouring and flavouring matter you need 
when the fondant is melting. 

Fondant is also cheaper, and, of course, better to use in 
place of water icing, because the water has been boiled into it 
and crystals dissolved. A very little apple jelly, or other bright 
jelly, added to chocolate glac6 makes it shine better. 



Boil 2 lbs. sugar in half pint of water to over 300 0 , say 310 0 \ 
when the sugar has had enough boiling, take off fire, and then 
beat in slowly 1 lb. almonds. This paste should be worked (by 
a machine, if you have one,) very smooth. 



Marzipan and Almond Icing. 



V 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



225 



Berlin Buns (Dough Nuts). 

Make a dough with 2 lbs. flour, 1 lb. 2 ozs. water or milk, 1 
tgg, J lb. butter, J lb. sugar, and 2 ozs. of yeast ; rub the butter 
into the flour, and make the whole into soft dough. Let it ferment 
for two or three hours, then weigh into 2 oz. pieces, roll round, 
press thumb into middle, put into hole % teaspoonful of preserve, 
close it over by pinching tightly the dough up over and around 
it. Let prove for about i hour, then have ready some good 
boiling fat, and drop the buns into it, and cook until light brown ; 
take out, drain, and roll in castor sugar. To test if the fat is hot 
enough, splash into it a sprinkle of water — if hot enough, it will 
sputter and make a noise. It must be boiling, or the goods will 
absorb the fat and taste bilious. 

Tartelettes aux Rhum. 

Line a tartlet pan with one of the sweet short pastes ; cut out 
thin, and fill with this mixture: — Beat up 18 yolks with 6 ozs. 
sugar, i lb. ground almonds, 1 qz. flour, 1 rind of lemon grated ; 
then stir in 2 table spoonsful of rum, 6 ozs. melted butter, bake 
carefully ; when baked, turn upside down on to a sieve ; when 
cold, spread top with apricot preserve, glaze thinly with white 
fondant, and place half a blanched almond on top. 

Christmas Puddings- 
Take 1 lb. breadcrumbs, 1 lb. beef suet, i£ lb. currants, 1 lb. 
raisins, i lb. sultanas, i lb. lemon-peel, f lb. moist sugar, 2 table- 
spoonfuls flour, 1 grated nutmeg, about two-thirds pint of milk, 
and 4 eggs. The raisins carefully stoned, the sultanas and currants 
quite free from stalk and grit, the suet and peel chopped very fine; 
the flour, breadcrumbs, sugar, and grated nutmeg should be placed 
all together in a pan, and mixed in their dry state. Whip the eggs 
in another vessel for a minute, mix with the milk, pour upon the 
other ingredients, and amalgamate the whole ; put into buttered 
basins or moulds, fill quite up, make a thin paste (scrapings of 
pudding-pan and flour will do), and spread this over the top of 
the puddings. Lay note-paper upon the paste, cover the pudding 
with a cloth, tie it down securely, and boil it steadily six or eight 
hours. When done, take out of the water and let it stand five 
minutes, then cut off the top, turn out upon its dish, add sauce, 
and send to table. 

Note, — If quite sure of the taste or palate of the probable 
eaters, add, when mixing, the usual glass of brandy, and 
enough ordinary mixed spice to cover a penny its own thick- 
ness ; this gives rather a coarse* flavour, and (as we have said in 
another place) is quite a matter of taste. Do not boil violently 



Digitized by 



226 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



('gallop'), but gently, and always eiTupon the side of cooking too 
much rather than too little, because the object is not only to cook 
the ingredients, but to bring out their flavour, and also to give 
that dark colour which is generally supposed to indicate rich- 
ness. 

Mincemeat. 

Four lbs. raisins stoned and chopped fine, 4 lbs. currants, 
4 lbs. sultanas washed, picked and chopped, 4 lbs. apples picked 
and chopped, 2 lbs. tripe and 4 lbs. suet chopped fine, 2 lbs. 
mixed peel chopped fine, 4 lbs. moist sugar, 1 nutmeg grated, 1 
oz. powdered cinnamon, 1 pint strong brandy. Chop the apples 
with the fruit — it will prevent them sticking so much. When 
chopping the suet, avoid the use of flour if possible ; * also keep 
it from binding in a soft mass, keep it cool, and chop in small 
quantities. Mix all together, and keep in stone jars. 

Calves'-feet Jelly. 
Calves' feet are generally to be obtained from the butcher ready 
for boiling, but if it is not convenient to get them ready dressed, 
scald them with boiling water, leaving them in it a minute ; then 
scrape the hair off, knock off the hoofs and split the claws, and 
take out all the fat to be got at, then wash them very carefully ; 
put four feet to a gallon of water and boil down gently to 
about half, strain it, and let it get cold ; then take off all the 
fat. After you have scraped as much as possible off, pour a 
little boiling water upon the top, shake it about, and then pour it 
off quickly. After you have done this, take some thin tissue or 
some blotting-paper and dry the top of the jelly. Then turn it 
out, and if there is any sediment at the bottom scrape it off also. 
This will leave about two quarts. Put this into a clean stewpan, 
with the juice of three lemons strained, some thinly cut shavings 
from the rinds of the lemons, \ lb. loaf sugar, a gill of white wine, 
the whites of 6 eggs beaten for a minute, throw in the shells also 
to help to clarify, and 2 ozs. of good gelatine. Put this on a cool 
part of the hot plate, or on a slow fire, and stir gently until it boils 
and begins to rise. When this point is reached, do not stir any 
more, but draw it a little on one side, and as the scum is thrown 
up by the boiling, remove it carefully. Do this for about a quarter 
of an hour, then draw still further away from the fire, and allow it 
to settle for another quarter of an hour. Now dip the jelly- bag in 
hot water, wring it out, and strain the jelly through in a basin. If 
the jelly, on account of some mismanagement, is not quite clear, 
strain it again. If it should be wanted rather richer, add a little 
sherry when boiled up the last time, and when strained keep it 
in a basin for future use, or run it into earthenware or glass jelly 
moulds, not metal, for fear of discoloration. 



Digitized by 



THE B A KEFS GUIDE, 



227 



Id. Spice Cakes. 



3 lbs. stale cakes rubbed through sieve, 3 lbs. flour, 1 lb. 
margarine, 1 oz. spice, 1 oz. ginger, 2 lbs. moist sugar, 1 oz. 
ammonia, rub these altogether fine, then add 6 eggs and enough 
milk to make a firm but workable dough. Pin out sheet \ inch 
thick, cut out with 3 inch cutter, wash over, lay half a blanched 
almond on top, and bake. 



14 lbs. soft flour, 3 lbs. moist sugar, 3 ozs. ammonia, 3 pints 
milk, \ lb. margarine, rub together ; add milk to make a light 
dough, pin out \ inch thick, cut with 2 inch cutter, and bake in 
sharp oven. 



Rub 14 ozs. flour with 10 ozs. butter and 3 ozs. sugar, add 4 
yolks and a spoonful of milk, and make into a smooth dough ; 
then make a paste confection for spreading by beating 3 ozs. 
butter and 5 ozs. sugar; add and mix well 5 yolks, 3 ozs. ground 
almonds, about half a gallipot of best cake crumbs (almond, 
Genoese, or sponge) moistened with a spoonful or two of milk ; 
roll the short paste into a sheet \ inch thick, cut out with a 
round cutter (2 inch for twopenny sandwiches, 5 inch for six- 
pennies), lay upon baking tin and wash over with, milk, spread 
thickly with the confection, but not too near the edges, cover 
with another round, fasten the outer edge and bake in a cool 
oven. When baked, spread with preserve, and mask either with 
fondant or meringue; ornament with fine tracings in fondant 
sugar and red currant jelly. To make either fondant or currant 
pliable lor ornamenting, put some in a paper cone and in oven or 
warm place a minute to melt. 



Make a paste with 8 ozs. fresh butter, 8 ozs. ground almonds, 
6 ozs. sugar, 6 ozs. flour, 6 drops essence almonds, 4 ozs. cut 
dried cherries, and 2 ozs. minced angelica ; rub all finely together 
and wet up with yolk of egg into rather soft dough ; fill with this 
paste small, shallow, canoe-shaped tins about 3 inches long, i-J- 
broad and £ deep, and with sloping sides ; bake in a fairly hot 
oven. When baked, cut the top off in a thin slice, cut it in 
halves to represent the basket covers, scoop a little out of the 
top of the cake after the cover is off, bend across, and well fasten 
in the sides a strip of angelica to form the handle, smear the 
inside that has been scooped out with preserve, pipe in some 



Tea Biscuits. 



Dessert Sandwich. 



Dessert Baskets. 




228 



THE BAKERS 1 GUIDE. 



whipped flavoured cream, pipe up buds of the cream in front, so 
that when the lids are put on they will stand two-thirds open and 
resting up piped cream ; put a bloom on to the cream buds by a 
spray of carmine thrown from the stiff bristles of a carmine 
dipped brush, which will be easily effected by drawing a knife 
edge across the bristles towards the person, the brush being close 
to the cream ; cover the lids with red currant jelly and lay them 
in position, which will bring the round point midway between 
the handle and the part of the cake it was cut from, and the two 
cut ends nearly or quite touching at the bottom of the handle. 
Now group some small or cut crystallized fruit on the join of the 
half lids at the bottom of the handle, also minute pieces of glac6 
cherry, angelica, and a silver dragee or two around the front tor 
set off the white of the cream buds ; the sides or some of the 
baskets can also be smeared with preserve, and covered in 
roasted cake crumbs, if preferred, for variety. 



Half pound finely cut citron, £ lb. desiccated cocoa nut, f lb. 
flour, £ lb. sugar, 6 eggs, and 10 drops essence vanilla ; well beat 
the whole, and pour- on to a well buttered tin, with edges, to pre- 
vent running off, spread not quite an inch thick, and bake in a 
* cool oven. When quite cool, cut as fingers for ordinary rusks, 
only smaller, and toast well in a sound oven. 



With a 2 inch diameter round cutter, cut out some pieces from 
a sheet of Genoese an • inch thick, slice them and spread them 
with crimson apricot jam, sandwich them, pipe on top with 
meringue to represent an apricot, dust with fine sugar. Put in 
oven a minute to set, then stand on wire sieve over a bowl, and 
pour over warm crimson apricot syrup — see how to make— let it 
run freely off the meringue, but make the sides moist enough for 
cocoa nut to adhere well, lift from the sieve on to pale brown 
roasted desiccated cocoa nut, and with a knife draw it up the 
sides until covered. Put a sprig of angelica to represent stalk of 
apricot. 

Note. — The apricot is also piped on with boiled merin- 
gue, and dusted with sugar, but not put in oven. The sides only 
are covered in pulp and cocoa nut, the meringue, on top, is then 
delicately sprayed with carmine to represent bloom by dipping a 
tooth brush into carmine, holding it towards the meringue, and 
drawing a knife over the bristles towards the person holding it, 
which has the effect of throwing a shower of red spray towards 



Royal Dessert Busks. 



Apricos. 




THE BAKERS 1 GUIDE. 



229 



the article by the rebound of the bristles. A dot of burnt sugar 
is put at one end for eye, and at the other a strip of angelica for 
,stalk. 

Petit Four Framboise (Raspberry). 

Is one inch Genoese, cut into one and a half inch squares, 
sandwiched and masked in thinned acidulated raspberry 
jam, then dipped (top and sides) in raspberry fondant, stood to 
drain upon wires, and then the top ornamented alternately with 
white icing and red currant jelly in thin lines. 

Lemon Filling for Cheese Cakes. 

Half pound of castor sugar, juice of 2 lemons, 2 ozs. butter, 
3 eggs, and the grated rind of 2 lemons ; whip the eggs a little, 
and place with other ingredients into stewpan, stir and simmer 
till it thickens ; do not let it boil. 

Chocolate Filling, etc 

Mix 2 ozs. flour with a pint of milk, add 6 ozs. sugar, 2 ozs. 
unsweetened cocoa powder, or confectioners' chocolate, and 3 
eggs ; mix all well together into a stewpan ; place it on the fire, 
stir it until it thickens, do not let it boil, take from the fire, pour 
into bowl, and then stir in a teaspoonful of vanilla essence. 

Small Fancy Creams* 

Make a sweet short paste by mixing 1 lb. fine flour, 4 ozs. 
castor sugar, 10 ozs. fresh butter, and 2 eggs into a smooth firm 
paste, roll into a sheet the thickness of a penny, cut out with a 
2 inch diameter round cutter. Prick them to prevent bulging, 
place on tin and bake well, don't burn. • Prepare a custard with 
\ lb. castor sugar, 6 yolks and a quart of milk, by whisking all 
together over a good fire until it thickens ; it must not boil ; add 
12 drops essence vanilla and 1 oz. soaked gelatine, and when 
nearly cold, beat the white of 3 eggs to a stiff snow, and stir them 
into the custard; pour into small ornamental wet moulds only 
large enough for one lady; put them in a cool place to set. 
When required, turn out by dipping in warm water the usuai 
way. Place one on each piece of sweet paste previously spread 
with crimsoned acidulated apricot, pipe neatly with red currant 
jelly. Should sell well at the counter at 6d. 

Presburg Zweeback. 

Make a rich rusk by fermenting % lb. sugar, J pint warm milk, 
2 ozs. yeast, 4 eggs, and a handful of flour for two hours ; then 
melt 4 ozs. butter, pour into the ferment, and make a fairly firm 
dough with fine flour; after half an hour mould into long rolls 



Digitized by 



23° 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



of about 2 inches diameter, flatten down, a little, -put into narrow 
square tins if you have them — if not, in the narrowest French 
roll tins you have, prove well, bake well, cut into slices J inch 
thick and toast to a light brown ; mix \ lb. ground almonds and 
a i lb. sugar into a paste with yolk of egg thin enough to spread 
with a knife, spread each rusk thinly with this mixture, put them 
into oven to brown the paste and then in the drying oven until 
quite crisp. 

Brioche Halfpenny Loaves for Shop Sale. 

i£ lb. fine flour, 5 ozs. good butter, 5 ozs. castor sugar, 1 oz. 
cream tartar, % oz. carbonate soda, 2 eggs, not quite a pint of 
milk, and a pinch of salt ; mix the same as soda scones, weigh 
into 1 lb. pieces, break each piece into 10 or 12, make into 
small cottage loaves, stand upon tin, wash over with yolk, and 
bake half an hour. 



Prepare the following mixture: Stir 12 yolks with 6 ozs. 
sugar, whip up 14 whites to a firm snow, mix these together, 
adding carefully j lb. flour and one table-spoonful of water. 
Pipe as buttons, the size of a penny in diameter, on to paper, and 
bake very dry. Hollow out a little from the flat' side, spread 
what remains of the flat side with preserve, also smear a little on 
the part hollowed out. Now place them together : it will then 
represent a ball more or less ; cut off a little from one of the 
round ends to make it stand, make a hole through the part 
which has now become the bottom. Having now got the two 
halves hollowed out and fastened together, and one part with the 
piece cut off to make it stand, and a small hole through this part, 
dip it with the round and uncut top into coffee, chocolate, or 
raspberry fondant, covering it right down to the part that is cut 
off ; stand it upon the cut part on a wire, and put inside the 
oven for a few seconds to make it shine, allow to cool and then 
take them between thumb and finger of the left hand, and from 
a bag fitted with a pipe, in the right hand, force cream, whipped, 
flavoured, and sweetened, through the hole in the bottom into 
the hollow part, and put cut off piece over the hole. 



2 lbs. flour, 12 ozs. sugar, 4 ozs. each of finely minced lemon 
citron, almonds, and butter, a pinch each of cinnamon, nutmeg, 
and mixed spice, 1 lb. honey, £ oz. carbonate soda, and a gill of 
water, put the honey with water into stewpan, bring to boil, rub 
the butter and other ingredients into the flour, make a bay, pour 



Indianas. 



Honey Ginger Bread. 




THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



*3* 



in the hot honey and water, and make a smooth dough, roll tt 
half an inch thick, place upon tin, let stand one hour, and then 
bake in cool oven ; when baked, pour over it very thin vanilla 
fondant, and cut into shapes. 



2 lbs. germ meal, \ lb. ground almonds, 12 drops essence 
almonds, 1 lb. butter, i£ lb. sugar, and enough eggs to make it 
into a firm smooth dough, roll out very thin, cut with coffee 
biscuit cutter or fancy cutter, and bake quickly in sound oven. 



3 lbs. flour ; make a bay, put in 2\ lbs. sugar, £ lb. margarine, 
cream them up ; add 5 eggs, essence lemon, \ pint milk, mix, 
cut out with i\ inch cutter, with a smaller cutter cut out middle, 
and bake on tins in sharp oven. 



4i lb. flour, ii lb. margarine, i oz. powder, 5 lbs. sugar, rub 
together, make a bay, add 1 5 eggs, essence almonds, roll in long 
finger strips, cut off in J inch pieces 3 stand , on ends i inch apart, 
and bake on tins in a cool oven. 



Mixture: i£ lb. ground almonds, 2 J lbs. sugar, 12 whites of 
eggs well beaten, and must be only stiff enough to force through 
savoy bag ; add 3 ozs. flour, and the juice of 2 lemonj. If the 
mixture is too stiff, add another white of egg. Cover a tin with 
rice (wafer) paper, draw three circles about 8 to 10 inches diame- 
ter, spread each circle with macaroon -J- inch thick quite level. 
Pipe a forth circle with tube a nice design, then bake carefully. 
When cold, glaze each circle, except the top, with firm boiled 
apricot, coloured red. The top circle glaze with hot strong 
syrup to make it shine, do this as soon as it comes out of oven, put 
the top circle on the others, and decorate between the piping 
with red and yellow apricot and glac6 fruit ; bake a few maca- 
roons, very small, with glac6 cherry, etc., in middle, and stick 
them round the top. Edge and finish it off round the side by 
thin almond icing neatly fastened on them ; chop some blanched 
almonds fine, brown them in the oven, and while very hot roll 
them about in a little hot clear syrup to make them shine, and 
then roll the side of gateau in them to cover the almond icing. 
Put this almond icing and the browned almonds on before 
putting the edging of small macaroons on. 



Germ Meal Dessert Biscuits- 



Lemon Sings- 



Almond Drops. 



Gateau de Macaroon. 




232 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



Gateau Mocha and Coffee Cream* 

Mixture : Make a cake batter by stirring £ lb. sugar with 2 
yolks ; whip four whites to a firm snow and stir it into yolks with a 
J lb. flour and few drops essence vanilla and spoonful of rum, 
and bake in a buttered papered hoop. When baked,* turn 
upside down on a sieve till next clay. Then cut in three slices 
from side to side, not top to bottom, and sandwich together with 
mocha cream, prepared by slightly warming \ lb. fresh butter and 
stirring into it 1 \ lb. icing sugar and strong essence of coffee. 
Put these in slowly, not all at once. Prepare the coffee essence 
by boiling \ lb. best coffee in a pint of water for \ hour. (Bottle 
the remainder for future use.) The coffee cream, when finished, 
must be stiff, and stand up like icing when sandwiched together 
with this ; cover the cake with it thinly, and smooth with knife ; 
brown, glaze, and chop almonds as in preceding recipe, lay them 
with a knife up the sides of the cake thinly, put some of the 
cream into a small star tube, and pipe a design upon top. 

PICK-ME-UPS. 

PUT a \ teaspoonful of ground ginger, a \ pint wa*er and 
teaspoonful of beef extract into stewpan, and make hot, 
add a £ pint of good old claret and boil up, season to 
taste with salt — sugar can be used for a change— let it 
cool down a few degrees and then whisk 2 yolks of eggs. Drink 
slowly from a spoon. 

2. Put 1 lb. of the coarsest oatmeal into 3 or 4 quarts of 
water, boil for a few minutes, stir in teaspoonful of beef extract, 
season well with pepper and salt, let get quite cold, and drink a 
small teacupful occasionally during the night's baking. 

3. Crush 1 lb. of red currants or strawberries, add 2 quarts 
water, juice of 1 lemon, a \ lb. sugar and \ ounce carbonate 
soda, let stand 1 to 12 hours, strain, put on ice, and drink half a 
glass when thirsty. 

4. Add to 4 quarts of boiling water 1 oz. ground ginger, a 
pinch of cayenne, 4 drops essence of lemon, a pinch of tartaric 
acid, 1 lb. of sugar ; when cool, bottle, drink either hot or cold. 
It is very stimulating drunk quite hot. 

5. Take \ lb. cold meat — no gristle— chop up and pound it 
fine, boil and add a sheep's brains, season with salt and pepper, 
stir in 1 good sized onion, chopped fine, and yolks of 3 eggs, 
boil J lb. rice nice and dry, add 1 oz. of butter and a little 
grated nutmeg, put into a shallow dish, spread the minced meat 
upon it, drawing the rice up over it ; then bake in a moderate 
oven, eat with cauliflower and potatoes. 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



233 



6. Roast a chicken ; cut all the meat off and free from skin 
and hard pieces, put into a stewpan with \ pint of water, a tea- 
spoonful of beef extract, 2 cloves, an onion, and sweet herbs ; 
stew half an hour, take out the meat and strain the liquor ; put 
the meat and strained liquor back into the stewpan, with 1 oz. 
butter, the juice of half a lemon, a pinch of salt, and a gill of 
milk, simmer and stir for a few minutes, and eat with dry 
toast (or wholemeal bread), potato, and cauliflower. 

7. Put in a stewpan 6 ozs. macaroni and a pint of water, boil 
slowly one hour, drain off the water, add 2 ozs. butter and 4 ozs. 
of grated Parmesan cheese, mix a tablespoonful of flour in a pint 
of milk with a pinch of salt, and 2 or 3 grains of cayenne, stir the 
whole together, put into a buttered dish, grate 2 ozs. more cheese 
over the top, and put into oven to brown for a quarter of an 
hour. 



1. Toast a \ lb. of the crumb of wholemeal bread, place it 
and its crust in a stewpan with 1 quart of water, and boil slowly for 
an hour. Pass it through a hair sieve, add sugar to taste (about 
4 ozs.), \ pint good port, juice of 2 lemons, 2 ozs. dissolved 
gelatine. Mix well and put into small moulds. 

2. Place in a stewpan 1 oz. beef extract, a pint of water, 4 
ozs. sugar, the juice of 2 lemons, a very small piece of cinnamon, 
and simmer till beef is dissolved ; melt an ounce of gelatine, stir 
it into the cooling extract, add \ pint sherry, and strain into 
small moulds to be used as required. 



Pour 6 quarts of boiling water upon 1 lb. sugar, 2 ozs. bruised 
ginger, and a pinch each of tartaric acid and cream tartar, stir up 
and leave for six hours, then stir in a tablespoonful of liquid 
yeast, and 1 whisked egg white ; let this work for twelve hours, 
strain and bottle, tie the corks and lay on side. It will be ready 
in twenty-four hours. 



Well dry and mix 2 lbs. of fine or pulverized sugar, \ lb. tartaric 
acid, \ lb. carbonate of soda, \ oz. ground ginger, 12 drops 
essence of lemon, keep in an air-tight bottle, and use a full tea- 
spoonful of the mixture to a glass of water. 



Invalids' Jelly. 



Ginger Beer. 



Gingerade. 




234 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 



PRACTICAL HINTS FOR WEDDING BREAKFASTS. 



THE first thing to be observed, after determining the 
number of invited guests, is to see that there will be 
comfortable sitting-room for all, for a crowded guest- 
chamber is a pregnant source of annoyance and dis- 
comfort, and particularly so to ladies, who have a great and not 
unnatural horror of having their dresses creased or crushed. I 
never allow less than 18 inches sitting room for each person, and 
prefer to allot 20 inches, particularly when cane-seating is fur- 
nished. Of course, when chairs are provided, the question is 
readily solved. It need scarcely be mentioned that the table 
must be of proportionate length, and for a room of limited 
dimensions I would suggest a table of not more than 3 feet wide, 
should this with other furniture have to be hired. 

Thus, for forty guests, a room would be required at least 
22 feet wide by 24 feet in length. In this space the best shaped 
table would be one of " horseshoe " form. This would give 
15 feet outside measurement, and 12 feet inside. Such a table 
would give comfortable sitting room for forty — nine persons 
(20 inches each being ranged on the outsides, and seven persons 
on each of the inner sides ; while six persons would occupy the 
cross-table, and one person each of the two ends. 

Following out this idea of a "horseshoe" shaped table, I 
would hint that the table-cloth on the cross-table is better spread 
before the long table is brought close, as this gives a neater ap- 
pearance, and avoids the ugly bulge at the inside corners. Each 
guest must have two plates, two knives, two forks, two dessert 
spoons, three wine-glasses, a napkin, and finger-glass ; and it is 
usual to put one tumbler to every other person. 

The table being ready, I now proceed to submit a few sugges- 
tions with regard to the dishes usually served throughout the year 
according to the season. 

And first I would remark that of late years it has become the 
fashion to serve one or two light seasonable soups, such as 
asparagus, brunoise, carrot, green-pea, julienne, ox-tail, Palestine, 
spring, clear turtle, white soup, etc. Plain roast chickens and 
ducks a*e always standard dishes, the former being cut on the 
under side, and tied with white satin ribbon, finished with a bow 
or rosette, and garnished simply with parsley and vegetable 
flowers ; it is also usual to put small paper frills on the legs Other 
dishes in order would be the galantines — for example, those of 
turkey, fowls a la tortue % lamb or Muscovy duck, veal ; various 



Digitized by 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



235 



kinds of game, ornamented with its own plumage, or otherwise 
like the other galantines with aspic jelly in the three colours — 
amber, ruby, and green. Designs formed with truffles cut in 
different shapes and placed on some of the galantines, have also 
a very pretty effect. Then follow tongues and hams modelled 
or decorated with aspic jelly ; aspic fillet of sole, lobster, eel, 
pigeon, quail, etc.; game, chicken, pigeon, and other pies; Mont- 
pelier eel, mayonnaise of salmon and lobster, bechamel and 
mayonnaise fowls, pigeons as doves, patties various, prawns and 
plovers' eggs mounted, fancy, French and Italian pastry, orna- 
mented Savoy cakes, g&teaux various, tourtes with ornamental 
covers, jellies and creams, trifle, tipsy cake, fruits various fresh 
and preserved, and water and cream ices. 

The bride-cake, which is always the principal object of attrac- 
tion at such functions, should be as ornate as possible, and placed 
on a stand in the centre of the cross-table. Wedding or bridal 
bonbons, in white and silver, should be freely distributed over all 
the table. 

In further ornamenting the table, I would suggest a liberal use 
of flowers, and a very pretty effect is produced by placing a 
button-hole bouquet in a small fancy glass before each guest. 
The bride and bridesmaids' bouquets might also be placed at 
intervals down the centre of the tables. 

For forty guests three or four waiters or attendants would be 
required. If tea or coffee is provided, it must be served directly 
the guests sit down ; but it is now more usual to serve coffee just 
before the bridal party breaks up. If soup is on the menu, it 
must be served (directly the guests are comfortably seated) by the 
waiters from the sideboard. A small menu card, with the name 
of the guest written on it, should be placed on each plate, and it 
is very desirable that a lady and gentleman should be seated alter- 
nately at the table, so that the dish that is opposite, or nearly so, 
may be served by the gentleman. The champagne should be 
well iced, and the other wines should only be decanted just before 
the guests sit down. 

For effect, it is rather important, in putting the various dishes 
on the table, that each sort should be as far apart as possible. 
Thus, if there be a galantine of turkey, it should be put at one end 
of the long tables, then another galantine on the cross-table at the 
other side ; and if there are more galantines or game or meat 
pies, they should be placed near the centre of the long tables, 
with a ham or tongue in close proximity. The chicken and ducks 
should be placed single and not near each other. Aspic jellies 
and salads alternately, creams, jellies, and fancy pastry distributed 
generally over the tables ; the g&teaux and other cakes put on 
some of the centre high dishes, as also the fruit. The ices are 
served round. 




2^6 



THE BAKERS GUIDE. 
WEDDING BREAKFAST MENU. 



Tprtue Claire. 
Bisque d'Ecrevisses. 
Filets de Soles Montpellier. 
Darne de Saumon en Belle Vue. 
Salade de Homards. 
Aspic de Foie Gras. 
Chaudfroid de Mauviette. 
Filets de Bceuf a la Gelee. 
Medaillons a la Moderne. 
Poulardes decouples. 
Galantine de Volaille. 
Bceuf brais6. Langue de Bceuf. 
Jambon d'Yorc. Salade a la Russe. 
Pate de Cailles. 
Gelees aux Fruits et aux Liqueurs. 
Crimes varices. 
Corbeille de Fruits glaces. 
Gateau Neapolitain. 



Mock Turtle. Clear Spring". 

Salmon and Lobster Sauce. 
Whitebait, Plain and Devilled. 



Compdte of Pigeons. 
Mutton Cutlets, Piquant Sauce. 



Boiled Capons. Roast Fowls. York Ham. 



Fore-quarter of Lamb. Haunch of Mutton. 
Dressed Salads. Asparagus. 

Petits Fours, Glace and Various. 
German Puddings. Macedoine Jellies. 

Pineapple Creams. Maids of Honour. 



Patisserie Parisienne. 
Glaces. Dessert. 



DINNER MENUS, 
At 5 s. if for ioo or over. 



Comp6te of Oranges. 



Ice Puddings. 



DESSERT. 




THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



237 



SOUPS. 

Tomate Am6ricaine. Brunoise. 

FISH 

Supreme of Sole Hollandaise. 
Whitebait. 

ENTREES. 

Lamb's Sweetbreads au Gratin. 
Chicken Saute & la Paysanne. 

REMOVES. 

Haunch Mutton and Red Currant Jelly. 
Brussels Sprouts. Plain Potatoes. 
York Ham and Maderia. 

ROAST. 

Pheasant Barde Sur Croustade. 
Chipped Potatoes. Cauliflower. 

ENTREMENTS. 

Cherry Pudding- Feuillentine a Macedoine Jelly. 
Ices. Apricots. 
Cheese. Celery. 

DESSERT. 



BAKING POWDERS FOR BAKERS' AND CON- 
FECTIONERS' USE. 

WHEN making these powders and flours, if for 
storing, use maize starch, which will prevent them 
becoming lumpy. Moisture destroys their power 
by decomposing and liberating the gas. Tar- 
taric acid is about double the strength of cream of 
tartar. It effervesces very quickly. It will generally be found 
to neutralize carbonate of soda better in equal quantities, or if 
used with sour milk for scones the acid in the milk must be 
allowed for, say five parts soda to four parts acid. Cream of 
tartar will neutralize half its own weight of carbonate of soda. 
Those who clearly understand this principle will have no diffi- 
culty in making up any quantity of powder. If the goods look 
yellow and smell strong, there is too much soda or too cold an 
oven, and more acid must be added to the powder. If they 
have smooth, shining, and slightly slate-coloured surface or 
edge, you will probably find it is caused by an excess of acid. 
It will taste sour, and the powder must have more carbonate 
put to it. 



Digitized by 



238 



THE BAKERS' GUIDE. 



RECIPES. 



I.— Baking Powder. 



2 lbs. cream of tartar ; 2 lbs. tartaric acid ; 4 lbs. carbonate of 
soda ; 2 oz. of ammonia ; 4 lbs. maize starch. All particles of 
carbonate and acid should be powdered, the whole of the in- 
gredients well mixed up together, and sifted through a hair or 
other fine-mesh sieve ; pack and keep from damp. For scones 
use f oz. to 1 lb. flour. 



Well mix together the whole of Recipe 1, with 280 lbs. of 
dry roller whites, slightly granular preferred. When the flour 
and baking powder are mixed together, sift through a fine sieve 
to make sure it is thoroughly amalgamated. Keep from air and 
damp. 



40 lbs. flour ; \\ lbs. cream of tartar ; £ lb. carbonate of soda. 
Mix as before, and it is ready for use. 

IV —Bakers' Prepared Flour for Cakes- 

15 lbs. flour ; 4 oz. carbonate of soda ; 2 oz. cream of tartar ; 
2 oz. tartaric acid. For ordinary cakes use \ oz. to 1 lb. of 



1 lb. maize starch ; 1 lb. carbonate soda ; 6 oz. tartaric acid > 
I lb. cream of tartar. Mix as before ; use as No. 1. 



N.B. — Maize starch is used in these receipes for the only 
purpose,,' of keeping dry. Moisture, of course, has a 
destructive effect on baking powder. 



II.— For Good Self-raising Flour. 



III.— Scone Flour. 



flour. 



V.— Baking Powder. 




INDEX. 



PAGES 



Acids 26, 99 

— chemical formula . . . . 99 

whence derived . . . . 99 

* how manufactured . . 99 

. acetic acid 99 

citric acid 99 

cream of tartar . . . . 99 

, hydrochloric acid . . 101 

tartaric acid . . . . 99 

Baking powder for bakers' and 

confectioners' use .. 237 

Biscuits, hard and soft . . . . 198 
Book-keeping for bakers (with 

examples) 106 

Bread, how to make and bake . . 129 

crumbliness .. 131 

, flavour •• .. .. 131 

harsh, flint, crusted 132 

* dry bread .132 

> sour bread 132 

ropiness in ditto . . • . 1 33 

, ripeness of dough .. .. 134 

causes of holes in bread . . 134 

, weak dough versus tight . . 134 

farmhouse or home made 136 

. silken piled .. 136 

light cottage .. 137 

suitable for small bakers 1*7 

housekeepers' bread 138 

, small fancy . . . . 138 

Vienna varieties .. 1.59 

glazing of 140 

Viennese rolls for hotels 141, 143 

. crescent .. .. .. 141 

— - Queen's bread . . . . 1 42 

scooped out rolls . . . . 142 

"Brioche" 143 

, sandwich rolls . . • . 143 

— — Scotch bread and cookies.. 146 

, use of salt 130 

Buns, scones, etc. . . . . 216 

Butters and fats 98 

. tests for purity . . . . 98 

, adulteration .. 98 



pagb 



Cake ornamentation, icing and 

piping 169 

Cakes, to cream butter for . . 149 

to ice 170 

Carbonates and bicarbs used by 

* confectioners 100 

Cereals, composition of . . • • 66 

Colouring for cakes . . . . 172 

Creams 193 

Dictionary of terms and mean- 
ings 80 

Discolouration of iced cakes . . 169 

Eggs, test for 98 

Essential oils, lemons, etc. . . 101 

Estimation of fat in milk • • 28 

Flour, general observations on 66 

how to buy and blend . . 77 

analysis of 67 

value of gluten in • . • • 73 

standard gluten test . . 74 

a baking-test . . . . 76 

for small goods . . . • 78 

age .. .. .. 78 

straight grade . . . . 72 

bakers' grade . . . . 72 

whites and country whites 72 

bakers gluten . • • • 73 

water absorbing capacity 75 

Fancy goods, etc. . . . . 191 

Fermentation . . .. 94 

Fondant, to make . . . . 223 

Gas engines in the bakery . . 102 

Gelatine, test for . . 98 
Germ of chemistry and birth of 

technics 23 

of starch, glucose, mal- 
tose, tartrates and 

citrates 25 

Gluten 78 

Glycerin 101 

Half sponge 145 

Heat of oven 115 

Ices 209 

Icing and piping • • . . 169 



Digitized by 



240 



INDEX. 



PAGE 



Introd action 9 

Lard, test for 98 

Paste and pastry . . . . 173 
Petit choux paste, eclairs, and 

cream buns .. .. .. 219 

Practical hints for wedding 

breakfasts 234 

Preface 4 

Preface to recipes . . . . 148 
Quality of flour and sugar to be 

used in cake making . . . . 149 

Quarter sponge 146 

Raw materials, remarks on . . 65 

Bopey cakes, cause of . . . . 1 69 

Spice in cakes, etc 150 

Sugar . . 95 

whence derived . . . . 95 

chemical formula . . . . 95 

tests for purity . . . . 97 

confectioners' caution . . 97 

how manufactured . . 96 

Sugar goods 213 

Table for 1 per cent, flour 

mixtures 24 

Thermometric estimation of 
albuminoids in flour and 

bread 35 

Time and heat in bread making 115 

To clarify sugar 210 

To ice tarts and pastry, etc. . . 177 

Yeast 79 

what is yeast ? . . . . 80 

weak, exhausted and im- 
pure yeast (appearance of) 85 

high yeast 83 

low yeast 83 

brands of yeast . . . . 84 

mode of working . . . . 87 

brewer's yeast . . . . 87 

— — compound barm ditto, etc. 88, 90 

how to make malt and hop 

yeast 88 

various recipes for yeast 

89, 90, 91 

how to preserve yeast • . 92 

to keep yeast fresh . . 92 

to strengthen and revive 

old or weak yeast . . 92 

to cleanse yeast . . . . 93 

equivalent value of . . 93 

— — heat for fermenting . . 94 

RECIPES. 

Aberdeen cake 168 

Abernethys 199 

African shoots and shapes • • 191 



paow 

Alexandra cakes 159 

Almond cakes 16 & 

darioles 15$ 

drops . . . . • • 231 

dessert biscuits (Parisian 

biscuits) . . . . . • 223 

sponge cake . . . . 160 

icing for bride cakes . . 173 

rout cakes . . . . . . 164 

German cheese cakes . . 182 

paste 164 

macaroons 192 

raspberry sandwiches . . 193 

tart 183 

American white cake .. •• 160 

cream walnuts •• .. 184 

Aniseed biscuits ... . . . . 222 

Apple tarts 183 

tartlets 183 

Apricos 228 

Apricot tartlets . . . . . . 186 

tart (French) .. ..187 

Arrowroot drops 205 

Baba 162 

Baking powder 238 

Balmoral cake 166 

Banbury cakes . . . . . . 184 

Barley sugar 215 

Bath buns 21& 

Oliver biscuits . . • • 201 

Beef patties .. .. ..179 

Berlin buns (dough nuts) . . 225 

Birthday and bride cakes . . 156 

Black currant lozenges . . . . 215 

Blancmange 208 

Blandy's fancy tea bread . . 148 

Boston butter scotch . . . . 214 

Brandy-bread tartlets . . . . 185 

Bride cake 156 

Brioche halfpenny loaves for 

shop sale 230 

Buns, scones, etc. . . 216, 217 

Butter for sandwiches . . . . 197 

Cadogan cakes 163 

Cadogans.. .. .. 163,182 

Caledonia cakes . . . . . . 161 

Calves' feet jelly 226 

Charlotte russe 195 

Chartreuse of oranges . . . . 197 

Cheese cake mixture (cheese curd) 181 

Cheese cakes . . . . . . 181 

Cheese curd 182 

Chelsea buns 219 

cheese cakes . . . . 189 

Cherry tartlets 177 

cake 159 



Digitized by 



INDEX. 



241 



PAGE 

Chicken pie 179 

roll 197 

Chocolate filling 22 J 

dessert biscuits • • . . 221 

ice cream 212 

tarts 185 

Christmas, or fruit cakes . . 155 

plain ditto 156 

puddings 225 

Cinnamon cake for desert, etc. 158, 1 62 

biscuits .. •• .. 221 

Cleveland's custards . . . . 189 

Cocoa cheese cakes . . . . 189 

Cocoa-nut biscuits .. .. 221 

cake 156 

. drops 205 

Genoa cakes . . . . 159 

Coffee biscuits 200 

cream \ See recipe mocha 

■ essence f gateau .. .. 232 

ice cream 212 

" Coffee-house tough " tea cakes 163 

Common 44 seedy's " •• 205 

Cough lozenges 215 

Crackers ... ..202 

Cracknells 202 

Cream buns 220 

scones 216 

slices 221 

ices 210 

tartlets 188 

Crescent dessert biscuits . . 222 

Currant cake . . . . . . 155 

Capid's cakes 162 

Dariole dessert cakes . . . . 162 

Derby biscuits 207 

Dessert arrowroot biscuits . . 205 

baskets .. .. ..227 

biscuits . . . . 206, 221 

creams 208 

rice cakes 162 

sandwich 227 

Devonshire luncheon cakes .... 159 

Digestive cake, etc. . . . . 165 

Dough cakes . . 166 

school cake.. .. .. 154 

Drops 214 

Dundee cakes 156 

Eccles cakes 185 

Emperor's cake, the . . . . 160 

Fanchonettes 183 

Fancy custards 186 

French apple turnovers.. .. 185 

congress tarts . . . . 182 

cream 208 

Fried puffs 182 



PAOK 

Fruitcake .. .. 160 

Gateau 164 

de macaroon .. .. 231 

mocha 232 

Gauffres 196 

fermented 196 

Genoa cakes 158 

Genoese pastry 189 

marbled 190 

German cake 159 

gingerbread .. .. 204 

kouglauffe 156 

shortbread . . . . . . 195 

sponge cake . . . . 152 

Germ meal dessert biscuits . . 231 

Gingerade 233 

Ginger beer 238 

Gingerbread 205 

Ginger stomachic biscuits . . 202 

Good cough drops . . . . 215 
Granulated wheat-meal digestive 

biscuits 203 

Griddle breakfast cakes . . . . 168 

Halfpenny rice cakes . . . . 222 

Helensburgh scones . . . . 216 

Honey ginger bread . . . . 230 

Horehound candy . . . . 215 

Hot cross buns 218 

Ice pudding 212 

wafers 221 

Indianas 230 

Invalid's jelly 233 

Italian cream 208 

Jumbles' 204 

Lemon biscuits . . . . . . 206 

cakes 15& 

cream .. .. .. 209 

drops 207 

rings 231 

honey cheese curd . . 222 

filling for cheese cakes . . 229 

water 210 

Lobster snack 197 

Macaroons and almond cakes . . 192 

Madeira cakes 153 

Marzipan and almond icing . . 224 

Mayonnaise eggs 196 

Mazarins of lobster . . . . 196 

of salmon 196 

Meringues and cream .. .. 193 

Mincemeat 226 

Mocha gateau 232 

Neapolitan cake 165 

sandwiches . . . . . 195 

ices .. 211 

Nursery biscuits 201 



Digitized by 



242 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Oatcake 203 

Orange tart 187 

Oswego cakes 161 

Oyster patties . . . . . . 180 

Pair pastry 186 

Pastry cheese straws . . . . 181 

sandwiches 186 

Pavilion biscuits 206 

Penny arrowroots .. .. 197 

spice cakes 2 47 

Petit four framboise (raspberry) 229 

Pick-me-ups 2*2 

Pigeon pie 188 

Pound cakes 154 

Presburg Zweeback .. 229 

Princess cake 161 

Prize butter scotch . . . . . 215 

Puff paste 174 

French 178 

Queen (or heart) cakes . . . . 165 

Queen's drops . . . . . . 206 

Baspbcrrj basket . . . . 1 97 

buns 222 

charlotte 198 

Ratafias 192 

Rice biscuits 206 

cake 156 

cheese cakes . . . . 184 

Rich cocoa-nut biscuits.. .. 207 

Rout cake 160 

Royal dessert rusks . . . . 228 

Rusks 217 

Russian paste 222 

Sally luns .. 166 

Sanitas cake 167 

Savarin cakes -161 

Savoy fingers 153 

moulds . . . . 1 52, 153 

Sausage rolls 180 

School cakes 154,165 

Scotch cheese cakes . . . . 184 

ginger cake . . . . 203 

soda scones .. .. 216 

Scones, London fermented . . 216 

Seedless caraway cake . . • • 167 



PAGB 



Simnel cake 168 

Shortbread 194 

scotch 194 

Short paste 178 

sweet 178 

for raised piecases . . 178 

Shrewsbury biscuits . . . . 207 

Small dessert cakes . . . . 164 

fancy creams . . . . 229 

lunch cakes . . . . 160 

Napoleons 207 

pastry custards . . . . 188 

Snaps 204 

Spanish macaroons . . . . 193 

Spice nuts . . • . . . 20 4 

Sponge cakes 151 

with apple foam .. .. 152 

Strawberry cream . . . . 208 

tartlets 184 

water ice 210 

Sultana cakes 159 

Swiss jam roll 153 

Tart de moi 186 

Tartelettes aux rhum .. 225 

Tea biscuits .. . . 227 

^ cakes 166 

Thick captains 199 

Thin arrowroots 202 

captains .. .. .. 399' 

Tipsy cake (plain) . . . . 152 

Tottenham cake 167 

Trine 195 

Trocadero cake (rich) . . . . 167 

Turkish cake 160 

Twelfth cake 163 

Vanilla ice cream . . . . 212 

sandwiches .. .. 182 

Venison tartlets . . .. 180 

Victoria sandwiches .. 193 

or Swiss biscuit* . . . . 201 

Vol-au-vent, how to make .. 177 

Walnut and cocoanut cream nuts 191 

Walnuts 191 

Yorks 200 

Zephyr cake 162 



ILLUSTRATIONS. 

PAGB. 

Cake Ornamentation, Icing, and Piping ... 171 

Crescents ... 142 

Vienna Bread Shapes : » 141 



Digitized by 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



243 



ESTABLISHED 1810. 




Mathews & Co., 

Manufacturers of 

Every Description of TOOLS 
and T7TE2TSXLS for BAKERS 
and 002TFEOTX02TERS, 

152 BOROUGH HIGH STREET, 

LONDON, S.E, 



TERMS— CASH. 




Fluted Dariol. 

8/6, 3/-, 3/6 doz< 



Plain Dariol. 

3/3, 2/6, 2/9 doz. 




Scolloped Cups. 
9d. doz. 



Scolloped €ups. 
9d. doz. 




Square Sponge Frame. 
Small. 10/6. Middle, 10/6. 
Large, 12/- doz. 




Patty Pan a. 
From 3d. doz. 



Custard Cups. 
9d. doz. 



Bread Markers* 
From 3/- each. 



NEW GEM ICING PIPES, GERMAN SILVER. 

. „ , ENGLISH MANUFACTURE. 

Prices in Sets of — 
7 Tubes, 1 Screw, 1 Indiarubber Bag and Box, 4s. 6d. post free. 



10 
14 
21 
28 
40 



1 
1 

2 
2 
3 



Separate Tubes, 7J. each 



6s. 6d. 
8s. 6d. 
12s. 6d. 
16s. 6d. 
21s. 6d. 



Icing Bags, 6d., 9d., 1/- and 1/3 each. 



Screws, 
4d. each. 




Savoy Bags.— 
Tick, 

Meringue Pipes, 6d. each, ^s*/ Od., 1/-, 1/3 each. 

fiem Icing Syringe, 5/6. Indiarubber, 
Savoy Pipes, 4d. each. 1/3, 1/6, and 1/9 each 

... CATALOGUES POST FREE. .^^^ ^giQ 



244 



ADVERTISEMENTS, 



La France Yeast 



FOR 

PURITY, 
SWEETNESS, 

AND 

STRENGTH. 



SUMMER AND WINTER ALIKE 

Our Yeast arrives in England 

WITHIN 8 HOURS 
Of leaving the Factory in France. 



♦ ♦♦♦♦♦ 

SOLE AGENTS for GREAT BRITAIN- 

C. de KIMPE & Co., 

98 High Street, 
Battersea, LONDON, S.W. 

i Google 



Digitized by ^ 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



*45 



RICHMOND & CHANDLER, LTD., 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

"HODGKINSOM'S" PATENT 

Bread -Kneading Machinery 

- SPECIAL PRIZE MEDAL - 

Awarded for Bread-Kneading Machines, International Health Exhibition, 

London, 1884. 




- PRICES. 



No. 1, to mix 14lbs. ■ £4 17 6 

K,l«rhand, to mix 301 bs. 9 9 0 

K, for power, to mix 30 lbs. 11 O 0 

No. 2, to mix 60lbs. 13 13 0 



K A., to mix Half-sack £19 10 0 
No. 3, for Hand, to mix 1 sack 24 5 0 
» 3, „ power „ 1 „ 29 10 0 
„ 4, „ power „ 2 „ 60 0 0 

Extract from The British Baker, Confectioner, and Purveyor, in their report on 
the New London Bakery of Messrs. OFFEN & MOORE, Limited :— 

(3?" " We now oome across an established favourite — the Hodgkinson's 
Kneader and Mixer for Biscuit Doughs and large Cake Mixings. In 
this machine the mixing arms and kneaders work in opposite directions, and, 
from their peculiar shape and motion in working, catch the dough at a differ- 
ent point at each revolution. The manager informs us that he also uses the 
Machine for washing Butter, etc." 



B. & C, Ltd., are also manufacturers of Chaff Cutters, Corn Crushers, and 
all kinds of Food-Preparing Machinery for Horses and Cattle. 

Catalogue Free on Application. 

Digitized by VjOOQ lc 



246 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



IN PERFECTION, 
NEVER FERMENTS, but IMPROVES with KEEPING* 

WE CAN SATISFY YOUR REQUIREMENTS* 

Write for Samples and Price to — 

CASSELL & CO., Beaverhall, Edinburgh' 



KIRKBY'S 

STEAM OVENS. 

— :o: — 

These ovens, which are posi- 
tively fitted with solid drawn 
steam tubes, can be seen work- 
ing, any day, on the premises by 
appointment, post card, or tele- 
gram ; prices and particulars on 
application to— 



KIRKBY'S 

HOT-AIR OVENS. 

— :o: — 

These Ovens are now well" 

known, yet never known to 

be taken down to give place to 
ovens of other makers ; can be 
seen working side by side with 
the Steam Ovens ; those in want 
of Ovens should come and see 
for themselves. 



213 LAVENDER HILL, LONDON, S.W. 

Telegrams, " K IRK BY, LONDON." ^ 

DOMO YEAST 

GUARANTEED PURE. 



AWARDS IN 1898. 

CHAMPION PRIZE. GOLD MEDALS. 

Several Silver and Bronze Medals and Diplomas. 



1899. 

FOOD & COOKERY EXHIBITION, THE ONLY PRIZE FOR 
YEAST AWARDED TO "DOMO." 



MANUFACTURED FRESH EVERT DAT 



BY 



The London Distillery & Yeast Co., Ltd., 

WEST HAM LANE, LONDON, E. 

y Google 



Digitized by ^ 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



247 



the ,a.:d.a.x:r, 

Patent Dough Mixer. 




Its 3E3Z 1l JE v XGXJEUSrCr a ^r a ' s unquestioned. 
Its SIMPLICITY is unequalled. 
Its g A IP WI 1 V is undeniable. 

This Machine differs from all other Dough Making Machines yet 
introduced. It has no Knives, Arms, or Beaters to grind, compress, or 

beat the Dough. 

The interior of the Mixer presents a free open space, no shaft running 
through it, the only agents for making the Dough being the small rods 
stretched from side to side. 

It is in use in H. W. NEVILL'S BAKERIES, and V.V. BREAD CO., London. 
See Machine at work and form your own opinion . 

SUPPLIED ONLY BY OWNERS OP 

ADAIR PATENTS, 35 EASTCHEAP, EC 

Digitized by Google 



248 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



NEW Every Baker should use these CONES, 

which is a guarantee of Uniform 
Quality at a Low Price. 




PROCESS. 



NO POISONOUS BLEACHING ; GIVING 
BLOOM and SWEETNESS TO THE BREAD. 



NOTE that sacks are branded and labelled, otherwise they are not 
' — Genuine. — 



EGG YELLOW 



PREPARED ONLY BY 



Beware of Inferior (Foreign) Substitutes ! 

Used throughout the world with the utmost satisfaction for 
the past 14 years. 



DNRIYALLED 
FOR 



CAKES, BISCUITS, 
CUSTARD POWDERS, 
ICE CREAM POWDERS, Etc. 

SEND FOR TRIAL TW. 

Gmm ^\ n n i o the originator of 
■ IYI \J W\ If I 9 J EGG YELLOW, 

256 CITY ROAD, LONDON, E.O. 
TAST EFUL TAB LES. 

NAPKIN - FOLDING. 

PRACTICALLY ILLUSTRATED. 



The Best and Cheapest Book extant on the Folding of Table 
' Serviettes, and a necessary work for every Cook and Confectioner. 



PRICE 2s. 10d., post free. 
NEWTON & ESKELL, 59 & 60 Chancery Lane, LONDON* 

Digitized by VjOOg IC 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 249 



>Q SELF-ACTING, HYGIENIC, 
O SMOKELESS & CONTINUOUS 

OVENS 



are built in one, two, or three decks, all 
heated from one tire, which may be 
placed at the back, front, or on either 
side ; a tall chimney is not required, and 
only 6 cwt. of coke is required for 15 cwt. 
of coal wanted in other ovens. There is 
no fire in the bakehouse unless the oven 
is fired from the front, which rarely 
happens, so the bakehouse is free from all 
dust and dirt. The ovens are unequalled 
for all kinds of baking ; they bake bread set close, usually called 44 batch " or 44 set " 
bread, as well as cottage or tin bread, and are unequalled for all kinds of cakes, 
confectionery, pies, biscuits, fancy or plain. You can regulate the oven to a degree 
.of heat for every class of goods. Bread is beautifully browned in the ovens, and the 
Joaves are large, light, and perfect in shape, never being drawn on one side ; the 
oven being steam-tight, only the smallest particle of the weight of the dough escapes 
in baking, thus saving in weight two or three ounces on every four-pound loaf, and 
the bread is naturally so moist that it keeps many days longer than with other ovens. 
Bread seven to ten days old is quite moist and fresh. The oven is continuous in 
baking, no waiting being necessary between each batch, and the goods can be baked 
any time, night or day, without delay in retiring. Save their cost in less than twelve 
months. Easy terms of payment. A signed guarantee with each oven. Keep 
them in repair six months free of charge, and afterwards for only £1 a year. We 
have built more ovens than any other firm, they can be seen in any part of the 
country, and on application we will send, free of charge, a full description of the 
ovens, prices for all sizes, testimonials. Pay your railway fare to see them, whether 
you order one or not. 

GEEN'S PYROMETER OR HEAT INDICATOR. 

For indicating the Heat in Bikers* and 
Confectioners' Ovens, thus preventing 
burnt Bread, economising time and fuel, 
and ensuring uniform production. 

Any Bricklayer can fix the Pyrometer 
in an hour. 



THOUSANDS OF THEM IN DAILY USE. 



Price 35/- each (nett). 



>\V change has taken place in the ownership, management, or staff of our firm, but the 
name has been shortened from M. Geen % Son -5r* Co. to 

GEEN, LIMITED 

(Formerly M. GEEN, SON & CO.), 

lewisham, Lonsroonsr s.m 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



GEEN 





25° 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



MOW TO COOK f^" NOVEL "^31 

AND 900 AN ° 

SERVE EQQS IN APPETISING WAYS. 



"Egg cookery." 

By M. ALFRED SUZANNE. 

{Formerly chef de cuisine to the Duke of Bedford ', A'.G., 
ami the Earl of Wilton.) 

THE above work, with its two hundred clear and easily followed 
recipes, is a valuable revelation to the cook and housewife of 
the culinary capabilities of the Egg. It should have a place in 
every Bakery, as well as in the domestic kitchen ; and will be found 
especially useful for the preparation of new and delightful Egg 
Dishes for the Lenten Season. 



"This book may be heartily 
commended to the notice of house- 
wives troubled about the variety of 
their breakfasts." — The Queen. 

" We think that nurses and those 
who have to bear with crochety 
appetites of convalescent patients 
will find this book very useful." — 
Hospital Gazette. 

"Every housewife who wishes 
to increase her knowledge of in- 
expensive and quickly prepared j 
dishes should purchase the book." i 
— The Lady, j 

" The greater number of the 
recipes are new in print, and con- 
sequently little known. A book 
dealing only with this special 
branch of the culinary art should 
be of use in most households, as ; 
the ordinary cookery book seldom I 



provides many methods of serving 
eggs." — Morning Post. 

" M. Suzanne's practical know- 
ledge and experience have enabled 
him to compile a work which is 
sure to be greatly appreciated. 
In glancing through it one see* 
many appetising little dishes 
which will appeal to the house- 
keeper who likes to have a good 
table. The explanations are per- 
fectly clear and yet simple." — The 
Gentlewoman. 

" When I tell you that the chef 
to the Duke of Bedford once sent 
me a little book, of his composU 
tion, in which there were at least 
two hundred recipes for dressing 
eggs, you will be able to form an 
idea of the variety and skill with 
which the French dress this emi- 
nently palatable and nourishing 
food." — G. A. Sala in the Thorough 
Good Cook. 



Price is., or post free is. 2d. % direct from the Publishers — 

x NEWTON & ESKELL, 59 & 60 Chancery Lane, LONDON. 

Digitized by Google 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



GOOD REASONS 



Why Every Cook, Confectioner, 

and Refreshment Purveyor 



Because it is the Best, Brightest, and Cheapest Journal 
of its kind. 

Because it keep its Readers posted up in every new phase, 
feature and development of the Catering Business. 

Because it is full of Hints, Wrinkles, and notions that can 
be turned to good and profitable account. 

Because its Literary Columns are contributed to by the 
Best Practical Authorities. 

Because its Advertising Pages constitute the most reliable 
guide extant to the Best Markets for catering 
supplies and requisites. 

Because it pays for its trifling Subscription many times 
over in the course of the year. 

Because those who wish to keep pace with the times 
cannot do without it. 



FIVE SHILLINGS PER ANNUM, POST FREE. 



THE CATERER PUBLISHING CO. 



SHOULD SUBSCRIBE TO 



POUNDED IN 1878. 




LTD., 



59 & 60 Chancery Lane, London. 



Digitized by 



Google 



2 5 2 ADVERTISEMENTS . 



BAKERS' ASSISTANTS 

AND OTHERS 

WITH FACILITIES FOR SELLING 

to lata' fnite 

IN 

COUNTRY DISTRICTS, 

WILL. BE 

{SUPPLIED 6N SPECIALLY 

Which may be obtained on application to 
THE PUBLISHERS, 

NEWTON & ESKELL, 

59 and 60, CHANCERY LANE, 
LONDON. 



Digitized by 



Google 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



253 



He Bfilisn anil Foreign 
Metier, BaKer & Restaurateur, 

ESTABLISHED 1877, 
IS PUBLISHED MONTHLY. 



A PRACTICAL TRADE JOURNAL. 

Each Number is full of Useful Articles and Information 
by the Best Contributors. 

The Annual Subscription is only 6/- per 

annum, post free; or for India, 
the Colonies, the United States, or the 
Continent, 7/- 



Zf you wish to be supplied regularly with, this Journal, out 
this out and send it to— 

"WALTER "WILLIAMS, 188 Strand, W-0. 

Please supply me with the BRITISH $ FOREIGN 
CONFECTIONER $ BAKER monthly for One Year, for 
which I enclose 5s., subscription United Kingdom; or 7s., 
subscription abroad. 

Nome, 

Address - 



Office: 188 STRAND, LONDON, W.C. 

Digitized by Google 



*S4 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



The Bakers' Times. 

EVERY SATURDAY. ONE PENNY. 



The BAKERS' TIMES deals fully and freely with all topics 

affecting the welfare of the Trade. 
The BAKERS' TIMES is widely read both in London and the 

provinces. 

The BAKERS TIMES is noted for its leading articles, which 
are being constantly quoted in the principal London and 
Provincial daily and weekly papers. 

The BAKERS TIMES circulates among the best class of 
Bakers; therefore it is a most suitable medium for 
advertisements. 

The BAKERS' TIMES has been established 13 years, and is 
the only Penny Newspaper in the Baking Trade. 

Subscriptions for 12 months, 6/6 ; six months, 3/3, post free. 
Situations Wanted, three lines 6cU three insertions, 1/-. 

Trade Printing of every description executed at the 
lowest possible terms. Special ruled Ledgers, Outdoor 
Pound Books, Bags, etc., supplied to order. Write for 
Price List at once. 

" SMALL SHOP GOODS," by F. A. Snudden; 125 Recipes; 
6id., post free. 



The BAKERS' TIMES Office & Printing Works, 

1 & 2 AXE PLACE, 

(75-77) HACKNEY ROAD, N.E. 

( Three minutes from Shoreditch Chur^fc^^ 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



255 



ESTABLISHED 1882. 
THE 

'PRACTICAL CONFECTIONER 
AND BAKER' 

Is a Good Medium for Advertisers, 
An Excellent Journal for Readers, 
And gives Full Value for Money. 

Annual Subscription. Post Free, 3/-> Inland. 
4/- Foreign and Colonial. 

PUBLISHED ON THE 15th OF EACH MONTH. 

Address— W. WHITE, Manager, 




»56 

r 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



HERR WILLY'S SCHOOL 

OF 

PIPING AND OR AMENTING, 

24 Francis St.. Tottenham Court Rd, LONDON, 

REAL GERMAxTpIPI^ 

The Best in the World. Set of 18, 6s. ; set of 36, lis. 6d. 

As long as the British Confectioner considers the Baking Outfitter the man capable of judging: 
bow a proper tube ought to be— as long as he believes in such nonsense— he cannot become a Piper. 

All Colours for Piping purposes, is. and 2s. a glass. Herr W.'s Wooden Rotation Stands, 
absolutely unbreakable, 7s. Lace Papers, Silver Bands, Ornaments of every description. Patent 
Piping Paper, at as. per quire ; 3 quires, 5s. 6d. Bride's-Cake Boxes, Condensed Whites of Eggs, 
M'Ghie's Icing Powder, Icing Sugar, Icing Bowls and Spatels, Getee Moulds, Cutters, Savoy 
Bags (in Waterproof or Tick), and Savoy Tubes, Wafers, Silver Stands and Saws for Wedding* 
Cakes, Cherries, Angelica, Gelatine, etc. 

BRIDE'S CAKES RECEIVED FOR FINISHING. 




TERMS-CASH. 



JACKETS, 
CAPS, APRONS, 
and 
TROUSERS, 
for Cooks and 
Confectioners. 



BRIDE'S- 
CAKE 
DUMMIES. 



ORNAMENTS 
OF 

EVERY KINO 

AND 
DESCRIPTION. 




TO THOSE WHO CANNOT 
TAKE LESSONS. 

H. W.'s PATTERN BOX 
for Sell-Education with the 
Piping Bag. 

THIRTY DESIGNS 

IN ICING. 

Safe Delivery Guaranteed. 

Post Free, lis. 6d. 

— o— 
THE 

TEN COMMANDMENTS 

TO THE 

Young Flower Piper, 

Including Sample Sheet of 
Twenty-five Piped Flowers, 
showing their commencement 
up to finish, with full particu- 
lars as to Number of Tubes, 
Nails, etc. ; also including 
one dozen Nails and two 
bunches Pistils. 

Post Free, 6s. 6d. 




Bride's-Cake finished with 
H.W.'s Piped Top. 



6 in. diameter 

7 »f 

8 in. 



9 in. 



Etc. 



3s. od. 
3s. 6d. 
4s. od. 
4s. 6d. 



Outside finished with Silver 
Band and White Frill, included 
in above quotations. 



"ALL 

ABOUT PIPING." 

By H. W. 

Second Edition. 

An Illustrated Guide to the 
young Piper. Gives fullest 
information about_ absolutely 
evervthing regarding Piping 
and Ornamenting. 

5s. ; Post Free, 5s. 3d. 
— o— 

BOOK OF 

DESIGNS 

FOR CONFECTIONERS. 

By H. W. Fourth Edition, 
— o — 

5s. ; Post Free, 5s 3d, 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



* 

Digitized by Google 



TOWNSON and MERCER, 

34 CAMOMILE STREET, 

AND 

89 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN, 
LONDON. 




Manufacturers and Expor 
Dealers in 

CHEMICAL AND 

SCIENTIFIC 

APPARATUS AND 
CHEMICALS. 

COMPLETE LABORATORY OUTFITTERS 

FOB ' 

SCHOOLS, COLLEGES, & TECHNICAL INSTITUTIONS. 



Makers of Apparatus, etc., for the 
Royal Military Academy, Royal Artillery Studies, Director- 
General of Stores for India, Directors of Army and Navy 
Contracts, London County Council, London School Board ; 
Goldsmiths' Institute, New Cross ; Battersea Polytechnic, etc., 

And most of the 

Principal Schools, Colleges, and Institutions in the United 

Kingdom. 



ALL THE ARp* 

Telegraphic 
"TOWNSON, 



niTitfl nnrnnnro TO IN THIS BOOK CAN 
}OVE ADDRESS. 

Telephone No. 

(Avenue) 1663 



Digitized by 



Google 



