Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



Y 




f 



GENERAL LIBRARY 



OF 



HP 

S University of Michigan 

s 

I ^.v-x .»^ 



% 

m 
m 

t 

m 
m 
m 

m 
m 
m 
m 




m 




^ y, ^.' ■: J iy'-'J^^^' 



rji 



Chemicai Library 

« 






\ 



BAKING POWDERS. 

9 5 / <? 5 



A TREATISE ON THEIR CHARACTER, METHODS FOR 

THE DETERMINATION OF THEIR VALUES, ETC. 

WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO 

RECENT IMPROVEMENTS IN PHOSPHATE POWDERS. 






BY 

CHARLES A. CATLIN, B. S., Ph.B., F.A.A. A.S. 



FUBUSHED BY THE 

RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS, 

Providence, R. L, U.S.A. 

1899. 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1899, by the 
Rumford Chemical Works, in the office of the Librarian 

of Congress at Washington. 
Rights of translation reserved. 



mm^^^rm^mmmm^imr^mmmmimmKffssissxiama^a^mm^mmmmK 



o 

CO 

^ Baking Powders. 



CONTENTS. 



Hygienic quality. 

Leavening quality. 

Recent improvements in phosphate jiowders. 

Valuation of Baking Powders. - - - 20 

Total available carbon dioxide. 
Conditions under which carbon dioxide is evolved. 
Keeping quality. 

V 

Carbon Dioxide Absorption Apparatus. Description. 29 

Improved Apparatus for the volumetric determination of 

Carbon Dioxide, etc., Description. - ^. - 85 

Rnrnford Chemical Works. - - - _ 43 

r 



ILLUSTRATIONS. 

A Corner of Rumford Laboratory • - Frontispiece. 

Photo-Micrographs of the constituents of Rumford 

Baking Powder. _ . . 6 

Absorption Apparatus. - - - - 28 

Volumetric Gas Apparatus. - - - 34 

Photo-Micrographic Camera. - - - 42 




' si I 
it' 

m 



Baking Powders. 



Hygienic Quality. 

Baking Powders have for their essential constituents, 
sodium bicarbonate and some form of acid or acid 
salt. During the bread making process in which. they 
are employed, under the influence of the water or 
other liquid used in mixing the dough, chemical 
reaction more or less complete ensues between these 
constituents, resulting in the evolution of the leaven- 
ing carbon dioxide gas, which is eventually dissipated, 
and a fixed residue, saline for the most part, which 
remains. It is, therefore, the character of this residue 
which determines the hygienic quality of any baking 
powder. 

Based upon these residues. Baking Powders may be 
conveniently divided into three well defined groups : 

1st. Baking Powders conveying to the food in which 
they are used, a saline addition of phosphates, for the 
most part of calcium and sodium. 

2nd. Baking Powders conveying to the food in which 
they are used, a saline addition of tartrates, for the 
most part potassium-sodium tartrate, more commonly 
known as the medicine Rochelle salt. 

3rd. Baking Powders conveying to the food in which 
they are used, a saline addition of sodium sulphate, 
7 



8 Baking Powders. 

more commonly known as the medicine Glauber's salt, 
and an aluminum salt, or aluminum hydrate, or both, 
as the case may be. 

Considering the hygienic quality of powders of the 
various classes, we find in the first, the residue left in 
the food is wholly composed of phosphates, of calcium 
and sodium for the greater part ; and that these phos- 
phates are normal constituents of both animal and 
vegetable food. Furthermore, we find careful research 
has demonstrated animal life cannot exist without a 
supply of these phosphates ; since they not only go to 
make up an important element of bodily structure, but 
play an essential part as well in the process of bodily 
nutrition. 

It has been proved by research, in all the higher forms 
of animal life, if not in every form of animal life 
without exception, there is a demand for a constant 
supply of these phosphates and a corresponding con- 
stant waste through their utilization in the life process ; 
and that the organs of the animal body are specially 
constructed for the continued elimination of these phos- 
phate wastes without injury, or even the slightest dis- 
turbance of any of their functions. 
» These phosphate baking powders are in fact the sole 
exemplification of leavening agents which do not intro- 
duce, as a residuum of their action, material abnormal 
to food ; and are further unique, in that their residues, 
in and of themselves, contribute essential salts in form 
available to the animal economy. 

Considering the hygienic quality of powders of the 

/ second class, wherein potassium-sodium tartrate is the 

saline residue, we find this salt, while possessing 



Baking Powders. 9 

medicinal and remedial value under certain disturbed 

conditions of health, is never present as a normal 

constituent of the animal body, nor yet as a normal 

constituent of food of any kind; neither does it in 

itself possess nutritious value, nor contribute nutrient 

qualities to food in which it may be present, nor 

yet assist in any degree the digestive function. The 

use of baking powders, from which it is the resultant, 

is, in fact, defended by interested parties, only upon 
claims for the innoxiousness of the residue, based, 

to say the least, upoji very questionable data. Hygienic 
qualities are never claimed for it, except when it 
shall have undergone a supposable change of con- 
dition. This change of condition by a most ingenious 
distortion of fact they claim possible, through the 
operation of certain obscure physiological influences 
decomposing the objectionable tartrate to carbonates ; 
which, in some mysterious way, suffici.ent phosphate 
being present in the food, react to become phos- 
phates; when all the virtues, and only the virtues 
of phosphates are claimed for the resultant. When 
it is considered that such decomposition of a salt, 
if it ever takes place, involves consumption of energy 
in the operation, it certainly is questionable whether 
the phosphate derived by such roundabout process 
has not cost the animal economy more than it will 
ever receive in return ; especially when one realizes 
that the phosphates of the food were probably 'directly 
available without it. If it remains as Rochelle salt it is 
certainly an open question whether it be innoxious. 
Physiologists have determined, while this salt in doses 






f J •: - - 



10 Baking Powders. 

of one-half to one ounce is an active cathartic, in 
smaller doses it is absorbed by the system and renders 
the urine alkaline. A most dangerous condition if pro- 
longed, and one certainly not to be invited by the con- 
tinued ingestion of the salt in ones daily food. In fact, 
the dangers would seem to be even greater from the 
small doses taken in bread raised with powders of this 
class than from the larger cathartic doses. 

In some cases, powders of this class, being prepared 
by the employment of a portion of free tartaric acid, 
leave as an element of their saline residue, sodium tar- 
trate, a salt quite as objectionable as the Rochelle salt, 
with no hygienic qualities whatever to recommend it. 

Summing up then the qualities of this second class 
of powders, we cannot but be led to the conclusion, that 
their employment in food is, to say the least, decidedly 
unhygienic. 

The hygienic quality of powders of the third class, 
) commonly called **^Jum" powders (or "Alum-Phos- 
phate'* when a little phosphate is added) wherein the 
residue of their operation consists of sodium sulphate 
and aluminum hydrate, or an aluminum salt like the 
basic sulphate or the phosphate, is certainly question- 
able. Sodium sulphate, commonly known as Glauber's 
salt, like Rochelle salt, is an active cathartic in doses 
of one-half to one ounce, but of much less injurious 
possibilities when taken in smaller doses long con- 
tinued, being really a normal excretion of the body. 
But its nauseous taste gives it a most objectionable 
quality in bread making. It may therefore be called a 
harmless though undesirable resultant. Not so of the 



' m. -. ■* * 

» • Ik • • 



Baking Powders. ' 11 

aluminum constituent of the residue from this class of 
powders, the presence of which is, without doubt, 
exceedingly dangerous in food, especially in that of 
invalids or of persons having weak digestive powers. 
It is claimed by interested parties, that when a phos- 
phate is used in connection with the aluminum salt in 
the composition of these powders, the residue of the 
operation in food is an insoluble, and consequently 
harmless, aluminum phosphate. Facts however do 
not seem to prove that aluminum phosphate is insol- 
uble in the juices of the stomach. And furthermore, 
extended investigation shows that when phosphate 
addition has been made to baking powders having an 
aluminum salt for their active acid ingredient, it is never 
in anywhere near the required proportion to combine 
with all the aluminum present. The real purpose of its 
addition being to give a quick acting property to the 
powder, which it lacks when the aluminum salt alone 
is employed as the acid agent, and not to supply the 
phosphate for the reaction to aluminum phosphate, 
nor yet because of its hygienic quality. It is fur- 
ther true, that in baking powders where alum or 
aluminum sulphate is the active acid agent, especially 
if it be in the dried anhydrous condition, the reactions 
of the baking process are liable to be incomplete, and 
basic aluminum sulphate result, which cannot be other 
than a dangerous addition to food. Chemical and 
physiological literature teems with testimony to the 
exceedingly baneful results following the administration 
of soluble aluminum salts of any kind. In regard to 
aluminum hydrate there is a large amount of testimony 



12 Baking Powders. 

from high authorities, all to the effect that it acts to 
retard digestion, i£ not wholly to arrest it ; that it enters 
into insoluble combination with valuable constituents of 
food to render them unavailable, especially the albumin- 
oids and phosphates; beside having an irritant and 
highly astringent effect upon the mucous membrane of 
the alimentary canal; while some assert, that it pro- 
duces a most disastrous effect upon the nervous system. 

Leavening Quality. 

Of course the hygienic quality of a baking powder 
is of first importance, but for its designed purpose 
there are other qualities which determine its value. 

It is perfectly understood, that the object of 
any leavening process is to impart a light cellular 
structure to the finished loaf or cake ; and that this is 
effected generally by in some way evolving carbon 
dioxide within the dough, in proper quantity, and at 
the proper stage of the cooking or baking operation. 
Baking powders are means to this end ; and for their 
true valuation a clear understanding of the cooking or 
baking process is necessary. 

In an article published in the Journal of Analytical 
Chemistry, Vol. IV, Page 361, October, 1890, I gave 
details of some investigations of mine upon the con- 
ditions of the baking process, which will be useful to 
us in this connection. From this I quote : 

**To inform myself more exactly, I made many care- 
ful observations of the steps pursued by a cook of the 
best homespun order, in preparation of baking powder 
biscuit dough and subsequent baking of the same. I 



Baking Powders. 



13 



found that she was using about 504 gms. of flour 
(Haxall brand) for the quart, as leavening for which 
two heaping teaspoonfuls of a popular brand of baking 
powder, weighing together about 17 gms., and for 
moistening, 386 gms. of either milk or water, or about 
23 cc. of liquid for each gram of baking powder 
employed. 

The range of temperature and the length of exposure 
thereto, were noted as follows : When the dough was 
rea^y for baking, a thermometer was inserted so that 
the bulb might be held as near as possible at the centre 
of the biscuit or loaf, and the whole placed in the 
already heated oven by the cook in the usual manner, 
the range of temperature being observed through a 
peephole, and record made thereof at stated times. 

Averaging a series of accordant results thus obtained, 
I found the oven at the outset to have a temperature 
of about 380° F., and that the temperature of the 
interior of the dough passed through the following 
range : 

After 
(( 

(< 

n 
t( 
t( 
{( 
n 
(< 
(( 

After thirteen minutes exposure, the cook pronounced 
the biscuit **done" ; but for the sake of the experiment, 



1 minute's exposure in the oven 95° F. 


3 








. » 130O « 


4 








< u 150O « 


5 








< ., 160° " 


7 








, .< 205° " 


10 








' " 205° " 


12 








' " 210° " 


13 








, ,< 212° " 


15 








' '< 212° " 


17 








' «• 217° " 



14 Baking Powders. 

the heating was continued, when, after fifteen minutes, 
the crust had become far too brown to be palatable, 
while at the end of seventeen, actual burning had well 
commenced. From the above it is apparent then, 
that in the actual baking process, the temperature of 
the dough is raised gradually, through a lapse of about 
thirteen minutes, to a temperature of not more than 
212^ F., and for a successful issue this should not 
endure for more than one minute, if indeed it should 
be allowed to continue for that length of time." 

In the first place, all ordinary operations of the 
kitchen, if graduated at all, are by measure and not by 
weight. The quart of flour demands the two or three 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, always measured, never 
weighed. It has been found that somewhere about 68 
cubic inches of carbon dioxide gas is the proper volume 
to raise 1 quart of flour, loosely packed (1 lb.) ; or a 
little less than a volume and a quarter of gas to one 
volume of the flour for ordinary biscuit or bread. Very 
much less than this gives poor results ; while very much 
more is practically of no value. Stating this another 
way: Experience has taught that in domestic use a 
powder properly evolving 50 times its own volume of 
gas is about the right standard. The available gas- 
evolving power of a baking powder to meet the com- 
mon domestic requirements should then be somewhere 
about 50 to 60 times that of its own volume. That is to 
say, a baking powder should have a volumetric leavening 
or aerating coefficient of 50 to 60. This is indeed a 
very important question in determining the value of a 
baking powder, which is not a question of percentage by 



Baking Powders. 15 

weight, but one wholly of percentage by volume. For 
it is readily seen, that as much leavening value may be 
obtained in domestic use from the same volume of 
powder purchased, in one having a low percentage of 
carbon dioxide with high density, as from one having 
high percentage of carbon dioxide with low density. 
Therefore, the true measure of efficiency of a baking 
powder is one dependent upon volumetric considera- 
tions, and not one of percentage by weight, as is usually 
reported. 

But this available carbon dioxide does not tell the 
whole story of baking powder valuation by any means. 
It is almost as important to know the manner of its 
evolution as it is to know its total volume. When one 
considers the dough mixing process it is easily under- 
stood, if a baking powder be employed which gives 
a too prompt reaction, much of the leavening gas will 
be evolved and lost in the manipulation, especially if 
the dough be rolled and handled. In thin batter, like 
griddle cake batter, especially where considerable time 
necessarily elapses between the mixing and the cook- 
ing, this quick cold evolution is a matter of serious 
importance. 

It is manifest also, on the other hand, that a baking 
powder too tardy in character, requiring a high oven 
temperature to bring about reaction, cannot give good 
results. When such baking powder is used, the dough 
placed in the hot oven is speedily crusted over, long 
before the interior of the loaf has attained the reacting 
temperature, and the mass of the dough itself under the 
oven influence has become considerably solidified as 



16 Baking Powders. 

well. When now the exciting temperature is attained, 
the reaction ensues with almost explosive violence, 
producing a result that is anything but the delicate 
cellular structure desired. The conditions under which 
the evolution of the gas takes place is, therefore, a 
most important consideration in the valuation of a 
baking powder. 

It is plain that a baking powder evolving its carbon 
dioxide quite gradually from the first of the mixing pro- 
cess and on into the oven, not so tardy as to require the 
extreme heat of the baking process, nor yet so active 
as to expend itself entirely by the cold evolution, is the 
ideal. To measure this quality of a baking powder, is 
really a very difficult matter. A useful determination 
indicating something in this direction is that of the 
amount of carbon dioxide given off simply in the cold, 
when treated with the quantity of water used in mixing 
the dough. 

The question of the amount of water to be used to 
fairly represent the conditions of the baking process is 
one of some moment. Referring again to my investiga- 
tion of the conditions of the baking process : In actual 
process we found that 23 cc. of water were employed 
for each gram of baking powder. A large part of this 
water, being absorbed by the flour, must have been 
practically inert in bringing about reaction between the 
constituents of the powder. Just what this absorbed 
water would be, we have not the means of determining ; 
but certainly, not more than half the water employed 
can be considered as exerting solvent action upon the 
powder. I would therefore recommend that not more 



Baking Powders. 17 

than 10 cc. be used for each gram of baking powder 
taken in making the determination. This amount of 
water, of course, also represents that necessary to imi- 
tate the whole baking process, oven operations and all. 

In the oven baking, however, the further elements 
of temperature and time come in for consideration. 
Referring again, on this point, to my investigation: 
We found in our observations of the baking of the biscuit, 
that in the matter of temperature, 212^ F. was never 
exceeded within the dough in proper manipulation, and 
that this limit should never be allowed to endure for 
more than one minute at the longest. As a matter of 
fact, I believe that when the temperature reaches 
200^ F., or even at a much lower point, the dough has 
attained such consistency that further evolution of gas 
is rather an injury than an advantage. However this 
may be, it is certain that gas evolved beyond the limit 
of a temperature of 212^ F,, enduring for one minute, 
is of no practical value. 

Upon the operation of the baking process as 
observed, fixing the conditions of moisture, time of 
cold evolution, time of heating, etc., I have based the 
methods for the valuation of baking powders described 
in the context. 

As I have said, this matter of extra-oven, or cold- 
evolution, of the carbon dioxide of a baking powder, is 
one of great importance ; and one to which the manu- 
facturer should be keenly alert. To adjust this ratio 
between the total available and the cold carbon dioxide 
to greatest efficiency for all kinds of baking work, 
would be out of the question ; for this would demand 



18 Baking Powders. 

for cake one ratio, for biscuit another, for griddle cakes 
another, etc. Thus this adjustment becomes a matter 
of judgment as to average efficiency in the baking 
operations of the household. 

A ratio somewhere between 60 and 70 for this cold, to 
the 100 available carbon dioxide, seems to best meet 
the popular favor, and is about the ratio adopted for 
the better class of powders. 

Recent Improvements in Phosphate Powders. 

The peculiar value of acid calcium phosphates in 
healthfulness and efficiency, was early appreciated by 
Professor Horsford, who first suggested their use and 
invented processes for their manufacture in suitable form 
for culinary purposes. But there was one quality of 
these acidulated phosphates, as he was then only able to 
prepare them, which for many years seemed to forbid 
their successful, employment as active acid components 
of baking powders to be packed in unsealed cans. This 
was in their powerful avidity for moisture, or deliques- 
cent property ; which, it is readily understood, would 
be fatal, in unsealed packages, to any reasonable com- 
mercial stability. But years of patient research was at 
length rewarded by the discovery of a process through 
which, to the surprise of everyone who had been 
familiar with past efforts, a baking powder composed 
only of monocalcium phosphate, sodium bicarbonate 
and starch, might be prepared, which was even supe- 
rior to potassium bitartrate baking powders in the 
quality of commercial stability. The valuable qualities 
of the new discovery were soon turned to practical 



Baking Powders. 19 

account in preparing the powder now sold under the 
name of Rumford Baking Powder, made by the Rum- 
ford Chemical Works, of Providence, R. I., the original 
manufacturers under Professor Horsford's patents and 
with whom he was identified. This baking powder is 
composed of pure monobasic orthophosphates, mostly 
of calcium with the usual small traces of magnesium, 
sodium and iron, pure sodium bicarbonate and 
pure corn starch. These, by peculiar processes of 
manipulation, are so brought together into admixture 
as to form a baking powder having commercial stability 
equal to and even excelling anything heretofore pro- 
duced. A most wonderful transformation has thus 
been effected ; the phosphate baking powder, once the 
most unstable, now being the most stable powder on the 
market. This result presents but another illustration 
of what patient, determined research may accomplish 
in overcoming apparently insurmountable obstacles. 



. I 



Valuation of Baking Powders. 



From our observations of the practical operation of 
Baking Powders, three questions present themselves for 
consideration in their quantitative valuation. 

First, — The total carbon dioxide available in the 
baking process. 

Second, — ^The conditions under which evolution of 
the carbon dioxide takes place. 

Third, — The keeping quality, i. e., the power of 
resistance to deteriorating atmospheric influence. 

The first two may be referred to an arbitrary 
standard ; while the third must be, from the very nature 
of the case, purely relative. 

Total available Carbon Dioxide. 

Weigh out 5 grams of sample into the evolving 
bottle A of my volumetric carbon dioxide apparatus, 
for description of which see context, and determine the 
total carbon dioxide by evolution with acid as therein 
described. Or the total carbon dioxide may be deter- 
mined by any other reliable method. For this work, 
however, my apparatus possesses special advantages in 
rapidity and accuracy. 

Weigh into a 200 cc. flask, or one of any convenient 

capacity, 2 grammes of sample, add thereto 20 cc. of 
20 



Valuation of Baking Powders. 21 

water, and heat to rapid boiling for one minute ; while 
yet hot, aspirate the flask, until all gaseous carbon 
dioxide is removed ; then attach to a soda-lime tube, 
or other form of absorption apparatus, (for convenient 
arrangement of absorption apparatus see context,) and 
liberating it from the residue in the flask by use of 
acid, observing all the well known precautions necessary, 
determine the carbon dioxide therein. This gives 
the excess of carbon dioxide remaining in the sample 
after reaction per se. Deducting this excess carbon 
dioxide from the total carbon dioxide obtained, gives 
available carbon dioxide in the sample. 

For consideration of the amount of water to be 
employed, and the application of heat to imitate the 
baking process, see article upon '^Commercial Valuation 
of Cream of Tartar Substitutes" by Charles A. Catlin, 
Journal of Analytical Chemistry, Vol. IV, page 361, 
1890, the essential features of which we have already 
discussed. (See page 12.) 

It is preferable to determine total carbon dioxide 
and excess carbon dioxide, and by difference obtain 
available carbon dioxide ; than to determine available 
carbon dioxide directly ; because of the difficulties of 
evolution and absorption encountered in the latter 
method. 

These give percentage by weight. Since, however, 
baking powders are never used by weight, but always 
by measure (volume), an important factor is to obtain 
the gravimetric-density of the sample ; that is, its com- 
mercial volume; and from this to calculate its total 
volumetric leavening or aerating coefficient. Of course. 



22 Valuation of Baking Powders. 

one may obtain the density of the powder by any of 
the well known methods; but the exact commercial 
condition in which it reaches the consumer, is more 
nearly arrived at by measurement of the contents in the 
package when opened. For instance, the space 
occupied by the powder in a can as received, is easily 
determined ; this'taken with the total weight of contents 
gives data for arriving at commercial density. 

Thus we get weight of a cubic inch of powder in 
commercial condition, and, from analysis obtained, 
calculate to cubic inches its carbon dioxide at 0^ C. 
and normal pressure (760 mm). Suppose we get in 
this way 50 cubic inches of gas ; we would then have a 
volumetric leavening (aerating) coefficient of 50. This 
then means, that a given volume of the sample of 
baking powder will yield in the baking process, 50 
times its volume of leavening gas. This is a very im- 
portant question to be considered ; as it is readily seen, 
that as much actual leavening value may be obtained 
in domestic use from a powder having low percentage 
of carbon dioxide with high density, as from one 
having high percentage carbon dioxide with low 
density. Therefore, the true measure of efficiency 
is not one of weight percentage carbon dioxide, as is 
usually reported, but one of volume evolution. 

Conditions under which Carbon Dioxide is Evolved. 

Weigh 5 grammes of the sample into the evolving 
bottle A, of my volumetric carbon dioxide apparatus, 
using 50 cc. of water in place of the acid as described, 
and determine at normal temperature the carbon dioxide 



Valuation of Baking Powders. 23 

evolved after twenty minutes of reaction. This gives 
the so-called cold strength of the sample, serving as an 
approximate measure of the aerating power outside the 
oven. Burnt alum powders, for instance, under these 
conditions, give but little ; while those made from free 
tartaric acid evolve nearly all their available gas. 

The ratio between the total available, and the cold 
available carbon dioxide, is a matter of careful adjust- 
ment in skilled manufacture ; and effort is made to bring 
it to the point of greatest efficiency. It is readily under- 
stood that a powder evolving all its available gas in the 
cold, presents great opportunity for excessive loss of 
leavening power during the mixing of the dough, with 
disastrous results in the finished product ; while one so 
tardy in its action as to require the heat of the oven to 
excite it, can produce nothing but disappointing results, 
the leavening gas escaping from the cracks of the crusted 
dough without producing the desired cellular condition. 

Keeping Quality. 

Atmospheric moisture is the deteriorating agent 
assailing baking powders. From the very nature of 
their composition, all are susceptible to its influence in 
a greater or less degree. ' The measure of resistance to 
this influence, of any sample, must therefore be purely 
relative. It is obtained by exposing a series of samples 
under consideration, to the influence of an artificially 
moistened atmosphere produced in a bell glass over 
water. Exposure to such an atmosphere, of course, is 
an extreme test, since it is saturated with moisture; 
a condition rarely if ever encountered in commercial 
exposure. 



24 Valuation of Baking Powders. 

First, in eafch of the thoroughly mixed samples, the 
total carbon dioxide content is determined, preferably 
in my volumetric carbon dioxide apparatus; then a 
series of 5 gram charges are weighed up from each 
sample and placed upon watch glasses. A wire net 
being fixed over the water under the bell glass, but not 
touching it, these watch glasses with their contents are 
placed upon it (all under the same bell glass), and kept 
there for the length of time the exposure is desired. 
At the end of the exposure they are removed, and the 
total carbon dioxide content determined in each, in my 
volumetric apparatus, or by other means. The differ- 
ence between the total carbon dioxide at start and the 
total carbon dioxide in the charge after exposure, 
represents the relative loss for each sample under the 
same condition. This loss calculated into per cent, 
upon the total carbon dioxide at the start, of course 
gives fair measure for comparison. To illustrate: 
Suppose we have three samples of baking powder we 
wish to compare as to keeping quality. A, B and C, 
through periods of ten, twenty and thirty hours of the 
moist air exposure. We first determine the total carbon 
dioxide percentage in each ; then weigh out on watch 
glasses three charges of 5 grammes each from sample 
A, marking them A^ A^ and A^ ; from sample B three 
charges of like weight each, marking them B^ B^ and 
B^; and the same from sample C, marking them C^, C^ 
and C^ All of these nine samples are placed at the 
same time in the same saturated atmosphere under the 
bell glass, and the time noted. After ten hours, charges 
A^ B^ and C^ are removed and their carbon dioxide con- 



Valuation of Baking Powders. 25 

tents determined. After twenty hours total exposure, 
charges A^, B^ and C^ are removed and their carbon 
dioxide contents determined. And after thirty hours 
total exposure, charges A^ B^ and C^ are likewise 
removed and carbon dioxide contents determined. 
Any convenient number of samples may be carried 
through in series, and any desired length of exposure 
adopted. Finally the carbon dioxide loss calculated 
into per cent, of carbon dioxide at start, gives the 
basis for comparison. In this manner the relative 
keeping quality may be determined between samples of 
baking powders; and experience has shown that the 
results obtained accord with atmospheric exposures. 



* 






e • * 



• '• 



•«* • 









Carbon Dioxide Absorption Apparatus. 



A convenient and compact arrangement for a carbon 
dioxide absorption apparatus which I have devised, may 
be described as follows, reference being had to the 
accompanying cuts, Fig. 1 showing a front view. Fig. 2^ 
a back view : 

Upon the base M is fixed the longitudinal upright N, 
and about midway of this, the transverse upright P, 
these to support and hold in position the U-tubes, etc. 
forming the essential parts. A is the generating flask 
of convenient capacity, K a reservoir for the decom- 
posing acid with tube running to the bottom of A, con- 
necting through h with the catch bottle H containing 
soda-lime, to retain any atmospheric carbon dioxide 
when air is aspirated through it. B is a small bulb 
U-tube fixed upon the front side of the longitudinal 
upright at its left hand end, containing concentrated 
sulphuric acid, connecting at one limb with the exit tube 
a of the flask A and at the other limb with the tube b, 
C is a plain U-tube fixed upon the back of the upright 
N, as shown in Fig. 2, connecting with B by tube b, con- 
taining pumice stone saturated with concentrated sul- 
phuric acid. D is a plain U-tube fixed upon the trans- 
verse upright P, connecting with C by r, containing 

pumice stone treated with cupric sulphate, as a catch 
29 



J J J - J 



30 Absorption Apparatus. 

tube for hydrochloric acid. E is the soda-lime absorp- 
tion U-tube connected with D by d. F is the drying 
tube containing pumice stone saturated with concen- 
trated sulphuric acid, connected directly with E. E and 
F together, with the tube d forming the parts to be 
weighed. G is a plain U-tube fixed upon the back of 
the upright N, as shown in Fig. 2, connecting with F 
by the tube e, containing pumice stone saturated with 
concentrated sulphuric acid, serving as a catch tube for 
any atmospheric moisture which otherwise might retreat 
into the tubes E and F. ^ connects G with an aspi- 
rator, y is a wire loop suspending the couplet E and 
F upon the hook as shown. 

The method of operating this apparatus is as follows : 
The absorption couplet E F being detached by 
drawing off the tube d from D, and e from F, and 
connecting d with F, is thus completely sealed from 
absorption from the air. In this condition the weight 
of E F ^ is carefully obtained by suspending from the 
pan hook of the balance by the wire loop /, When 
the weight is obtained, the couplet is re-attached to the 
apparatus in its former position. The weighed charge 
of the material in which the carbon dioxide is to be 
determined, having been introduced into the flask A and 
the requisite amount of decomposing acid into K with 
the stopcock closed, the whole apparatus is connected 
as shown in the cut. The aspirator being set in opera- 
tion, the stopcock of K is opened and the acid allowed 
to flow down into A, the aspirating air current flowing 
along first through soda-lime bottle H, to remove all 
atmospheric carbon dioxide, thence through A, K, A, 






b w 



Absorption Apparatus. 31 

• 

a^ B, by C, Cy D, dy E, F, e, G, g. The stopcock of K 
being now closed, heat is applied to the flask A and 
its contents brought to a rapid boil continued for a few 
minutes. The tube h now being disconnected from H 
is dipped into a quantity of boiling water and the stop- 
cock of K opened again, when the flask A is allowed 
to completely fiU with the hot water, up and into the 
elbow of the glass tube, where the rubber tube h is 
attached. In this manner the atmosphere of A is at 
once displaced and much time saved in unnecessary 
aspiration. The rubber tube a, being pinched mean- 
while, is drawn off from A and affixed to H, which 
thus cuts out A and its attachments, and leaves the 
course of the aspirating current to flow through H, 
Uy B, by C, Cy D, (ly E, F, Cy G, gy the carbon dioxide 
being quickly swept through the series and absorbed 
by the soda-lime of E. The current of pure air may 
be drawn through the apparatus at this stage with con- 
siderable rapidity; at the rate of four or five litres at 
least, within ten minutes, without fear of error ; which 
would not be the case had the flask A with its steaming 
contents remained in the circuit, when certainly, in such 
rapid flow, some moisture would have been carried 
beyond B, C and D into the absorption couplet. The 
concentrated sulphuric acid in B should be changed 
with almost every determination, thus maintaining C 
for a long time in efficient condition. The effect 
of boiling A is of course to heat up the contents 
of B, which is desirable; for, while concentrated 
sulphuric acid has but slight cold absorption for carbon 
dioxide, it nevertheless would absorb a trace, giving 



32 Absorption Apparatus. 

error to that extent, which might be appreciable should 
excessive sulphuric acid be used. Allowing the sul- 
phuric acid in B to heat up slightly, prevents absorp- 
tion of any carbon dioxide therein, yet forming an 
efficient trap for moisture. Of course the sulphuric 
acid used in the other drying tubes of the apparatus 
would have this property of slight absorption of car- 
bon dioxide and introduce a source of error, were it 
not, that, by allowing a current of dry carbon dioxide 
to flow through these drying tubes for a few moments, 
previous to using for the first time, (of course not 
through the absorption tube,) and then aspirating 
with pure air before actual use, the sulphuric acid is 
saturated and error from this source avoided. This 
apparatus furnishes a rapid and accurate means for 
determining carbon dioxide by absorption. 



: .. •• •. • ' * 



If 



Improved apparatus for the volumetric 
determination of Carbon Dioxide 
and other gases.* 



For the determination of small quantities of carbon 
dioxide in readily decomposed carbonates, the process 
and apparatus devised by Dr. Scheibler presents a most 
convenient and rapid method ; but the inability to thus 
measure large quantities of gas has restricted its em- 
ployment for the most part to determination of carbon- 
ate in bone-char. To extend the field of volumetric 
carbon dioxide determination I have devised the follow- 
ing described apparatus, retaining, as far as possible, 
the essential features of the Scheibler. 

Referring to the cut: A, C and D are essentially the 
same as in the Scheibler apparatus ; A being the decom- 
posing bottle in which the portion of the sample to 
be operated upon, is placed, with its enclosed tube for 
the decomposing acid or other solution, with the further 
addition however, of a thermometer, inserted through 
the rubber stopper — a most important feature when the 
decomposition results in wide variations of tempera- 
ture ; C the bottle containing the rubber gas balloon 
connected with A ; and D the water reservoir with com- 
pressing-bulb E, exactly as in the Scheibler device. 
In the Scheibler apparatus, however, the gas evolved is 
directly determined by the displacement of water in a 
graduated tube, the capacity of which is, and must be, 
quite limited. 

^ Journal of tlie American CJieinical Society, 1893, page 614. 

35 



36 Volumetric Apparatus. 

In my apparatus I have replaced this graduated tube 
by the bottle B, connected by the tube b with the 
space around the rubber bag in the bottle C, and by 
the tube r, from its bottom, through the stopcock, with 
the tube L ; which tube L connects, through another 
stopcock at its opposite end, with the reservoir D, by 
means of the tube d. This tube L, which may be con- 
structed of brass if more convenient, is fixed horizon- 
tally upon the standards, as shown in the cut, and has 
affixed along its upper portion, a series of stopcocks, 
one of which connects with the tube F, and each of the 
others individually, with the pipettes G, H, I and J, 
and the burette K. These pipettes may be respectively 
(using a fifty cc. burette for K) 50, 100, 200 and 200 
cc. capacity, graduated as to contents, between marks 
on the stem and delivery tube, in each case. The tube 

F serves as an equalizer of pressure, as hereinafter 
described. N shows a common tube thermometer 

attached to the standard for convenient reference. 

Before using the apparatus, the reservoir D is 

supplied with water, and by means of the compressing- 

bulb E, the burette and pipettes are filled to their 

zero marks, and their respective stopcocks closed, the 

stopcocks connecting c and F being closed meanwhile. 

The stopcock connecting c is now opened, and the 

bottle B filled a little above a zero mark upon the tube 

by which for a portion of the way is of glass ; this glass 

tube being so inserted in the rubber stopper that the 

bottle may be entirely filled with water without air 

space. During the filling of B, the stopcock M 

should be opened, connecting as it does with the air 



Volumetric Apparatus. 37 

space surrounding the gas bag within the bottle C, 
while the generating bottle A should be disconnected 
and the gas bag collapsed. When B is filled, the stop- 
cock connecting it with L is closed, and that at F 
opened, and this tube filled in like manner to a point 
higher than the zero mark of B, when the stopcock 
connecting d is closed, and that at c opened again. 
The generating bottle A with its charge of sample and 
acid in the tube, is now connected, and through the 
stopcock connecting d the level of the water in B 
adjusted to the zero mark, that in F subsiding with it.^ 
When the adjustment is thus effected, the stopcocks 
connecting F, and that at M are closed, while that 
connecting with the reservoir through d^ is opened, and 
thus free course given for the water between B and D. 
The bottle B being elevated upon the shelf O, there is of 
course a reduction of pressure within the apparatus, 
caused by subsidence of the water level ; which after a 
few moments should cease, showing that the apparatus 
is tight in every joint. If, however, this is not the case, 
and the level continues to subside, there is a leak, which 
must be stopped and a readjustment of pressure 
effected before the operation is continued. 

When all is in readiness, the decomposition of the 
carbonate is effected in A by bringing the acid and 
carbonate together in the usual way, the temperature 
having been noted at the outset. The evolution of the 
gas, distending the rubber gas bag, expels a portion of 
the air from C, which forces the water from B into the 

2 Experience in operating this apparatus has shown that it is 
desirable to attach a U-tube manometer to a branch placed in 
tube a, near its connection with the rubber bag in C, for the more 
accurate adjustment of the gas to atmospheric pressure. 



38 Volumetric Apparatus. 

reservoir D, in volume equivalent to the gas evolved at 
the pressure and temperature prevailing, as is readily- 
understood. When complete decomposition is effected, 
and the temperature in A returns to the temperature of 
the room, by means of the bulb E, pressure is exerted 
upon the reservoir D, and the stopcock connecting F 
being opened, the levels in B and F are brought together 
through the stopcock connecting d. 

When this is accomplished, the stopcock at F and d 
are closed. It is seen that the displacement of the 
water in B, obtained in this manner is exactly that of 
the volume of the gas evolved from the carbonate at 
the existing temperature and atmospheric pressure. 
With all stopcocks closed, excepting that connecting 
Cy and that at M which should now be opened, the 
bottle B is removed from its shelf to the table upon 
which the apparatus stands, and the amount of the 
displacement measured by running in the contents of 
such of the pipettes, and portion of the contents of the 
burette, as may be required to restore the water level 
in B to the starting point, the amount of water thus 
employed of course being that measure. 

From the volume of gas obtained, the percentage by 
weight of the sample taken is calculated in the usual 
way, either by the formula for correction of volume 
for temperature and pressure, adding of course to the 
volume thus obtained a correction for carbon dioxide 
dissolved in the decomposing liquid, or through the use 
of the tables given originally by Dietrich, (Ztschr. 
anal. Chem., 4, 141). It is to be noted, however, that 
these tables are not strictly correct, the weight of the 



Volumetric Apparatus. 39 

cubic centimeter of carbon dioxide at O^ C. 760 mgms. 
being considerably at variance with that at present given 
by the best authorities ; and some sHght errors, in the 
calculation apparently, are also to be observed. In 
ordinary work, however, these are not important. But 
in the use of the table given for solubility of the gas in 
the decomposing acid, one must exercise no little 
caution. In fact for this correction, it is better to 
establish for one's self just what it should be for each 
material operated upon, by check gravimetric deter- 
minations ; for while within limits,' this may be taken as 
a constant factor, yet it is more or less affected by the 
character of the salts present. And further, this table 
was not carried far enough to cover the large volumes 
of gas evolved from the charges that my apparatus 
enables one to employ. 

With this apparatus it is possible to make a deter- 
mination of carbon dioxide in from ten to fifteen 
minutes, and that with extreme accuracy. Indeed with 
the large charges one may employ, and with careful 
weighings, repeated results obtained from the same 
sample will never vary more than one-tenth per cent, 
and scarcely more in most instances than two or three 
one-hundredths per cent. 

For some operations, more particularly where the carbon 
dioxide evolved by cold water is to be determined in a baking 
powder, I have devised the fittings and arrangement of the 
decomposing bottle A, as shown in the accompanying cut. 

A third hole is pierced through the stopper of A, through which is 
introduced the stem of the glass-stoppered funnel tube P, bearing 
the stopcock r, and having, from its upper portion, the air tube S, 
connecting with a branch inserted in the tube a. It is readily seen 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



bv Google 




DiailizodbvGoOgle 



DiailizodbvGoOgle 



BAKING POWDERS. 



A TREATISE ON THEIR CHARACTER, METHODS FOR 

THE DETERMINATION OF THEIR VALUES, ETC. 

WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO 

RECENT IMPROVEMENTS IN PHOSPHATE POWDERS. 



CHARLES A. CATLIN, E.S., Ph.B., F.A.A.A.S. 



laiiizodbvGoogle 






Entered accordiiiK to Act of Congreee, in the year 1899, by the 

Rnmford Chemical Works, in the office of the Librarian 
of Congreae at Waahington. 
Eighte of translation reserved, 

7f jyf 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



CONTENTS. 

Raking Powders. 

Hygienic quality. 

Leavening quality. 

Recent improvements id phosphate powders. 

Valuation ot Bakint^ Powders. ... 

Total available carbon dioxide. 
Conditious under which carbon dioxide is evolvml. 
Keeping quality. 

Carbon Dioxide Absorption .Apparatus. Description. 

Improved Apparatus for the volumetric determination ol 
Carbon Dioxide, etc., Description. 

Kuinlord Clii-niiL-al Works. - . . . 



ILLUSTRATIONS. 

A (,'orner ot Rnmford T,aboi-atory 

Photo-Micrograplis of tlie constitnents of Bt 
Baking Powder. ... 

Absorption ApparatUH. 

Volumetric Gas .\pparatUH. 

Fhoto-Micr<^;raphic Camera. 



DiailizodbvGoOgle 



DiailizodbvGoOgle 



DiailizodbvGoOgle 








OOglf 



j,=,i,z<»i.vGoogIe 



8 Baking Powders. 

more commonly known as the medicine Glauber's salt, 
and an aluminum salt, or aluminum hydrate, or both, 
as the case may be. 

Considering the hygienic quality of powders of the 
various classes, we find in the first, the residue left in 
the food is wholly composed of phosphates, of calcium 
and sodium for the greater part; and that these phos- 
phates are normal constituents of both animal and 
vegetable food. Furthermore, we find careful research 
has demonstrated animal life cannot exist without a 
supply of these phosphates; since they not only go to 
make up an important element of bodily structure, but 
play an essential part as well in the process of bodily 
nutrition. 

It has been proved by research, in all the higher forms 
of animal life, if not in every form of animal life 
without exception, there is a demand for a constant 
supply of these phosphates and a corresponding con- 
stant waste through their utilization in the life process ; 
and that the organs of the animal body are specially 
constructed for the continued elimination of these phos- 
phate wastes without injury, or even the slightest dis- 
turbance of any of their functions. 

These phosphate baking powders are in fact the sole 
exemplification of leavening agents which do not intro- 
duce, as a residuum of their action, material abnormal 
to food; and are further unique, in that their residues, 
in and of themselves, contribute essential, salts in form 
available to the animal economy. 

Considering the hygienic quality of powders of the 
second class, wherein potassium-sodium tartrate is the 
saline residue, we find this salt, while possessing 



DiailizodbvGoOgle 



Baking Powders. 9 

medicinal and remedial value under certain disturbed 
conditions of health, is never present as a normal 
constituent of the animal body, nor yet as a normal 
constituent of food of any kind; neither does it in 
itself possess nutritious value, nor contribute nutrient 
qualities to food in which it may be present, nor 
yet assist in any degree the digestive function. The 
use of baking powders, from which it Is the resultant, 
is, in fact, defended by interested parties, only upon 
claims for the innoxiousness of the residue, based, 
to say the least, upon very questionable data. Hygienic 
qualities are never claimed for it, except when it 
shall have undergone a supposable change of con- 
dition. This change of condition by a most ingenious 
distortion of fact they claim possible, through the 
operation of certain obscure physiological influences 
decomposing the objectionable tartrate to carbonates; 
which, in some mysterious way, sufficient phosphate 
being present in the food, react to become phos- 
phates ; when all the virtues, and only the virtues 
of phosphates are claimed for the resultant. When 
it is considered that such decomposition of a salt, 
if it ever takes place, involves consumption of energy 
in the operation, it certainly is questionable whether 
the phosphate derived by such roundabout process 
has not cost the animal economy more than it will 
ever receive in return; especially when one realizes 
that the phosphates of the food were probably directly 
available without it. If it remains as Rochelle salt it is 
certainly an open question whether it be innoxious. 
Physiologists have determined, while this salt in doses 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



10 Baking Powders. 

of one-half to one ounce is an active cathartic, in 
smaller doses it is absorbed by the system and renders 
the urine alkaline. A most dangerous condition if pro- 
longed, and one certainly not to be invited by the con- 
tinued ingestion of the salt in ones daily food. In fact, 
the dangers would seem to be even greater from the 
small doses taken in bread raised with powders of this 
class than from the larger cathartic doses. 

In some cases, powders of this class, being prepared 
by the employment of a portion of free tartaric acid, 
leave as an element of their saline residue, sodium tar- 
trate, a salt quite as objectionable as the Rochelle salt, 
with no hygienic qualities whatever to recommend it, 
I Summing up then the qualities of this second class 
of powders, we cannot but be led to the conclusion, that 
their employment in food is, to say the least, decidedly 
unkygienic. 

The hygienic quality of powders of the third class, 
commonly called "Alum" powders (or "Alum-Phos- 
phate" when a little phosphate is added) wherein the 
residue of their operation consists of sodium sulphate 
and aluminum hydrate, or an aluminum salt like the 
basic sulphate or the phosphate, is certainly question- 
able. Sodium sulphate, commonly known as Glauber's 
salt, like Rochelle salt, is an active cathartic in doses 
of one-half to one ounce, but of much less injurious 
possibilities when taken In smaller doses long con- 
tinued, being really a normal excretion of the body. 
But its nauseous taste gives it a most objectionable 
quality in bread making. It may therefore be called a 
harmless though undesirable resultant. Not so of the 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



Baking Powders. 11 

aluminum constituent of the residue from this class of 
powders, the presence of which is, without doubt, 
exceedingly dangerous in food, especially in that of 
invalids or of persons having weak digestive powers. 
It is claimed by interested parties, that when a phos- 
phate is used in connection with the aluminum salt in 
the composition of these powders, the residue of the 
operation in food is an insoluble, and consequently 
harmless, aluminum phosphate. Facts however do 
not seem to prove that aluminum phosphate is insol- j 
uble in the juices of the stomach. And furthermore, 
extended investigation shows that when phosphate 
addition has been made to baking powders having an 
aluminum salt for their active acid ingredient, it is never 
in anywhere near the required proportion to combine 
with all the aluminum present. The real purpose of its 
addition being to give a quick acting property to the 
powder, which it lacks when the aluminum salt alone 
is employed as the acid agent, and not to supply the 
phosphate for the reaction to aluminum phosphate, 
nor yet because of its hygienic quality. It is fur- 
ther true, that in baking powders where alum or 
aluminum sulphate is the active acid agent, especially 
if it be in the dried anhydrous condition, the reactions 
of the baking process are liable to be incomplete, and 
basic aluminum sulphate result, which cannot be other 
than a dangerous addition to food. Chemical and 
physiological literature teems with testimony to the 
exceedingly baneful results following the administration 
of soluble aluminum salts of any kind. In regard to 
aluminum hydrate there is a large amount of testimony 



DiailizodbvCoOgle 



12 Baking Powders. 

from high authorities, all to the effect that it acts to 
retard digestion, if not wholly to arrest it ; that it enters 
into insoluble combination with valuable constituents of 
food to render them unavailable, especially the albumin- 
oids and" phosphates; beside having an irritant and 
highly astringent effect upon the mucous membrane of 
the alimentary canal; while some assert, that it pro- 
duces a most disastrous effect upon the nervous system. 

Leavening Quality. 

Of course the hygienic quality of a baking powder 
is of first importance, but for its designed purpose 
there are other q-ualities which determine its value. 

It is .perfectly understood, that the object of 
any leavening process is to impart a light cellular 
structure to the finished loaf or cake ; and that this is 
effected generally by in some way evolving carbon 
dioxide within the dough, in proper quantity, and at 
the proper stage of the cooking or baking operation. 
Baking powders are means to this end ; and for their 
true valuation a clear understanding of the cooking or 
baking process is necessary. 

In an article published in the Journal of Analytical 
Chemistry, Vol. IV, Page 361, October, 1890, I gave 
details of some investigations, of mine upon the con- 
ditions of the baking process, which will be useful to 
us in this connection. From this I quote: 

"To inform myself more exactly, I made many care- 
ful observations of the steps pursued by a cook of the 
best homespun order, in preparation of baking powder 
biscuit dough and subsequent baking of the same. I 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



Baking Powders. 



13 



found that she was using about 504 gms, of fiour 
(Haxall brand) for the quart, as leavening for which 
two heaping teaspoonfuls of a popular brand of baking 
powder, weighing together about 17 gms„ and for 
moistening, 386 gms. of either milk or water, or about 
23 cc, of liquid for each gram of baking powder 
employed. 

The range of temperature and the length of exposure 
thereto, were noted as follows: When the dough was 
ready for baking, a thermometer was inserted so that 
the bulb might be held as near as possible at the centre 
of the biscuit or loaf, and the whole placed in the 
already heated oven by the cook in the usual manner, 
the range of temperature being observed through a' 
peephole, and record made thereof at stated times. 

Averaging a series of accordant results thus obtained, 
I found the oven at the outset to have a temperature 
of about 380° F,, and that the temperature of the 
interior of the dough passed through the following 
range : 

■ After 1 minute's exposure in the oven 95° F. 

" " " 130° " 

" " " 150° " 

" " " 160° " 

- .. .. .. 205° " 

.. .. .. 205° " 

'■ " " 210° " 

" " " 212° " 

" " " 212° " 

" " " 217° " 

After thirteen minutes exposure, the cook pronounced 
the biscuit "done" ; but for the sake of the experiment, 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



14 Baking Powdeks. 

the heating was conjinued, when, after fifteen minutes, 
the crust had become far too brown to be palatable, 
while at the end of seventeen, actual burning had well 
commenced. From the above it is apparent then, 
that in the actual baking process, the temperature of 
the dough is raised gradually, through a lapse of about 
thirteen minutes, to a temperature of not more than 
212*^ F., and for a successful issue this should not 
endure for more than one minute, if indeed it should 
be allowed to continue for that length of time." 
- In the first place, all ordinary operations of the 
kitchen, if graduated at all, are by measure and not by 
weight. The quart of flour demands the two or three 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, always measured, never 
weighed. It has been found that somewhere about 68 
cubic inches of carbon dioxide gas is the proper volume 
to raise 1 quart of flour, loosely packed (1 lb.) ; or a 
little less than a volume and a quarter of gas to one 
volume of the flour for ordinary biscuit or bread. ■ Very 
much less than this gives poor results ; while very much 
more is practically of no value. Stating this another 
way: Experience has taught that in domestic use a 
powder properly evolving 50 times its own volume of 
gas is about the right standard. The available gas- 
evolving power of a baking powder to meet the com- 
mon domestic requirements should then be somewhere 
about 50 to 60 times that of its own volume. That is to 
say, a baking powder should have a volumetric leavening 
or aerating coefficient of 50 to 60. This is indeed a 
very important question in determining the value of a 
baking powder, which is not a question of percentage by 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



BAKING Powders. 15 

weight, but one wholly of percentage by volume. For 
it is readily seen, that as much leavening value may be 
obtained in domestic use from the same volume of 
powder purchased, in one having a low percentage of 
carbon dioxide with high density, as from one having 
high percentage of carbon dioxide with low density. 
Therefore, the true measure of efficiency of a baking 
powder is one dependent upon volumetric considera- 
tions, and not one of percentage by weight, as is usually 
reported. 

But this available carbon dioxide does not tell the 
whole story of baking powder valuation by any means. 
It is almost as important to know the manner of its 
evolution as it is to know its total volume. When one 
considers the dough mixing process it^is easily under- 
stood, if a baking powder be employed which gives 
a too prompt reaction, much of the leavening gas will 
be evolved and lost in the manipulation, especially if 
the dough be rolled and handled. In thin batter, like 
griddle cake batter, especially where considerable time 
necessarily elapses between the mixing and the cook- 
ing, this quick cold evolution is a matter of serious 
importance. 

It is manifest also, on the other hand, that a baking 
powder too tardy in character, requiring a high oven 
temperature to bring about reaction, cannot give good 
results. When such baking powder is used, the dough 
placed in the hot oven is speedily crusted over, long 
before the interior of the loaf has attained the reacting 
temperature, and the mass of the dough itself under the 
oven influence has become considerably solidified as 



.x.ooc^ic 



16 Baking Powders. 

well. When now the exciting temperature is attained, 
the reaction ensues with almost explosive violence, 
producing a result that is anything but the delicate 
cellular structure desired. The conditions under which 
the evolution of the gas takes place is, therefore, a 
most important consideration in the valuation of a 
baking powder. 

It is plain that a baking powder evolving its carbon 
dioxide quite gradually from the first of the mixing pro- 
cess and on into the oven, not so tardy as to require the 
extreme heat of the baking process, nor yet so active 
as to expend itself entirely by the cold evolution, is the 
ideal. To measure this quality of a baking powder, is 
really a very difficult matter. A useful determination 
indicating something in this direction is that of the 
amount of carbon dioxide given off simply in the cold, 
when treated with the quantity of water used in mixing 
the dough. 

The question of the amount of water to be used to 
fairly represent the conditions of the baking process is 
one of some moment. Referring again to my investiga- 
tion of the conditions of the baking process: In actual 
process we found that 23 cc. of water were employed 
for each gram of baking powder. A large part of this 
water, being absorbed by the flour, must have been 
practically inert in bringing about reaction between the 
constituents of the powder. Just what this absorbed 
water would be, we have not the means of determining; 
but certainly, not more than half the water employed 
can be considered as exerting solvent action upon the 
powder. I would therefore recommend that not more 



DiailizodbvGoOgle 



Baking Powders. 17 

than 10 cc, be used for each gram of baking powder 
taken in making the determination. This amount of 
water, of course, also represents that necessary to imi- 
tate the whole baking process, oven operations and all. 

In the oven baking, however, the further elements 
of temperature and time come in for consideration. 
Referring again, on this point, to my investigation : 
We found in our observations of the baking of the biscuit, 
that in the matter of temperature, 212° F. was never 
exceeded within the dough in proper manipulation, and 
that this limit should never be allowed to endure for 
more than one minute at the longest. As a matter of 
fact, I believe that when the temperature reaches 
200^ F,, or even at a much lower point, the dough has 
attained such consistency that further evolution of gas 
is rather an injury than an advantage. However this 
may be, it is certain that gas evolved beyond the limit 
of a temperature of 212° F,, enduring for one minute, 
is of no practical value. 

Upon the operation of the baking process as 
observed, fixing the conditions of moisture, time of 
cold evolution, time of heating, etc., 1 have based the 
methods for the valuation of baking powders described 
in the context. 

As I have said, this matter of extra-oven, or cold- 
evolution, of the carbon dioxide of a baking powder, is 
one of great importance ; and one to which the manu- 
facturer should be keenly alert. To adjust this ratio 
between the total available and the cold carbon dioxide 
to greatest efficiency for all kinds of baking work, 
would be out of the question; for this would demand 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



18 Baking Powders. 

for cake one ratio, for biscuit another, for griddle cakes 
another, etc. Thus this adjustment becomes a matter 
of judgment as to average efficiency in the baking 
operations of the household. 

A ratio somewhere between 60 and 70 for this cold, to 
the 100 available carbon dioxide, seems to best meet 
the popular favor, and is about the ratio adopted for 
the better class of powders. 

Recent Improvements in Phosphate Powders. 

The peculiar value of acid calcium phosphates in 
healthfulness and efficiency, was early appreciated by 
Professor Horsford, who first suggested their use and 
invented processes for their manufacture in suitable form 
for culinary purposes. But there was one quality of 
these acidulated phosphates, as he was then only able to 
prepare them, which for many years seemed to forbid 
their successful employment as active acid components 
of baking powders to be packed in unsealed cans. This 
was in their powerful avidity for moisture, or deliques- 
cent property; which, it is readily understood, would 
be fatal, in unsealed packages, to any reasonable com- 
mercial stability. But years of patient research was at 
length rewarded by the discovery of a process through 
which, to the surprise of everyone who had been 
familiar with past efforts, a baking powder composed 
only of monocalcium phosphate, sodium bicarbonate- 
and starch, might be prepared, which was even supe- 
rior to potassiuni bitartrate baking powders in the 
quality of commercial stability. The valuable qualities 
of the new discovery were soon turned to practical 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



Baking Powders. 19 

account in preparing the powder now sold under the 
name of Rumford Baking Powder, made by the Rum- 
ford Chemical Works, of Providence, R. I., the original 

manufacturers under Professor Horsford's patents and 
with whom he was identified. This baking powder is 
composed of pure monobasic orthophosphates, mostly 
of calcium with the usual small traces of magnesium, 
sodium and iron, pure sodium bicarbonate and 
pure corn starch. These, by peculiar processes of 
manipulation, are so brought together into admixture 
as to form a baking powder having commercial stability 
equal to and even excelling anything heretofore pro- 
duced. A most wonderful transformation has thus 
been effected ; the phosphate baking powder, once the 
most unstable, now being the most stable powder on the 
market. This result presents but another illustration 
of what patient, determined research may accomplish 
In overcoming apparently insurmountable obstacles. 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



Valuation of Baking Powders. 



From our observations of the practical operation of 
Baking Powders, three questions present themselves for 
consideration in their quantitative valuation. 

First, — The total carbon dioxide available in the 
baking process. 

Second, — The conditions under which evolution of 
the carbon dioxide takes place. 

Third, — The keeping quality, i. e., the power of 
resistance to deteriorating atmospheric influence. 

The first two may be referred to an arbitrary 
standard ; while the third must be, from the very nature 
of the case, purely relative. 

Total available Carbon Dioxide. 

Weigh out 5 grams of sample into the evolving 
bottle A of my volumetric carbon dioxide apparatus, 
for description of which see context, and determine the 
total carbon dioxide by evolution with acid as therein 
described. Or the total carbon dioxide may be deter- 
mined by any other reliable method. For this work, 
however, my apparatus possesses special advantages in 
rapidity and accuracy. 

Weigh into a 200 cc. flask, or one of any convenient 
capacity, 2 grammes of sample, add thereto 20 cc, of 
20 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



Valuation of Baking Powders. 21 

water, and heat to rapid boiling for one minute ; while 
yet hot, aspirate the flask, until all gaseous carbon 
dioxide is removed ; then attach to a soda-lime tube, 
or other form of absorption apparatus, (for convenient 
arrangement of absorption apparatus see context,) and 
liberating it from the residue in the flask by use of 
acid, observing all the well known precautions necessary, 
determine the carbon dioxide therein. This gives 
the excess of carbon dioxide remaining in the sample 
after reaction per se. Deducting this excess carbon 
dioxide from the total carbon dioxide obtained, gives 
available carbon dioxide in the sample. 

For consideration of the amount of water to be 
employed, and the application of heat to imitate the 
baking process, see article upon "Commercial Valuation 
of Cream of Tartar Substitutes" by Charles A. CatHn, 
Journal of Analytical Chemistry, Vol. IV, page 361, 
1890, the essential features of which we have already 
discussed. (See page 12.) 

It is preferable to determine total carbon dioxide 
and excess carbon dioxide, and by difference obtain 
available carbon dioxide ; than to determine available 
carbon dioxide directly; because of the difficulties of 
evolution and absorption encountered in the latter 
method. 

These give percentage by weight. Since, however, 
baking powders are never used by weight, but always 
by measure (volume), an important factor is to obtain 
the gravimetric-density of the sample; that is, its com- 
mercial volume; and from this to calculate its total 
volumetric leavening or aerating coefficient. Of course. 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



22 Valuation of Baking Powders. 

one may obtain the density of the powder by any of 
the well known methods ; but the exact commercial 
condition in which it reaches the consumer, is more 
nearly arrived at by measurement of the contents in the 
package when opened. For instance, the space 
occupied by the powder in a can as received, is easily 
determined ; this taken with the total weight of contents 
gives data for arriving at commercial density. 

Thus we get weight of a cubic inch of powder in 
commercial condition, and, from analysis obtained, 
calculate to cubic inches its carbon dioxide at 0" C. 
and normal pressure (760 mm). - Suppose we get in 
this way 50 cubic inches of gas ; we would then have a 
volumetric leavening (aerating) coefficient of 50. This 
then means, that a given volume of the sample of 
baking powder will yield in the baking process, 50 
times its volume of leavening gas. This is a very im- 
portant question to be considered ; as it is readily seen, 
that as much actual leavening value may be obtained 
in domestic use from a powder having low percentage 
of carbon dioxide with high density, as from one 
having high percentage carbon dioxide with low 
density. Therefore, the true measure of efficiency 
is not one of weight percentage carbon dioxide, as is 
usually reported, but one of volume evolution. 

Conditions under ^rhich Carbon Dioxide is Evolved. 
Weigh 5 grammes of the sample into the evolving 
bottle A, of my volumetric carbon dioxide apparatus, 
using 50 cc. of water in place of the acid as described, 
and determine at normal temperature the carbon dioxide 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



Valuation ok Baking Powders. 23 

evolved after twenty minutes of reaction. This gives 
the so-called cold strength of the sample, serving as an 
approximate measure of the aerating power outside the 
oven. Burnt alum powders, for instance, under these 
conditions, give but little ; while those made from free 
tartaric acid evolve nearly all their available gas,' 

The ratio between the total available, and the cold 
available carbon dioxide, is a matter of careful adjust- 
ment in skilled manufacture ; and effort is made to bring 
it to the point of greatest efficiency. It is readily under- 
stood that a powder evolving all its available gas in the 
cold, presents great opportunity for excessive loss of 
leavening power during the mixing of the dough, with 
disastrous results in the finished product; while one so 
tardy in its action as to require the heat of the oven to 
excite it, can produce nothing but disappointing results, 
the leavening gas escaping from the cracks of the crusted 
dough without producing the desired cellular condition. 

Keeping Quality. 
Atmospheric moisture is the deteriorating agent 
assailing baking powders. From the very nature of 
their composition, all are susceptible to its influence in 
a greater or less degree. The measure of resistance to 
this influence, of any sample, must therefore be purely 
relative. It is obtained by exposing a series of samples 
under consideration, to the influence of an artificially 
moistened atmosphere produced in a bell glass over 
water. Exposure to such an atmosphere, of course, is 
an extreme test, since it is saturated with moisture; 
a condition rarely if ever encountered in commercial 
exposure. 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



24 Valuation of Baking Powders. 

First, in each of the thoroughly mixed samples, the 
total carbon dioxide content is determined, preferably 
in my volumetric carbon dioxide apparatus; then a 
series of 5 gram charges are weighed up from each 
sample and placed upon watch glasses. A wire net 
being fixed over the water under the bell glass, but not 
touching it, these watch glasses with their contents are 
placed upon it (all under the same bell glass), and kept 
there for the length of time the exposure is desired. 
At the end of the exposure they are removed, and the 
total carbon dioxide content determined in each, in my 
volumetric apparatus, or by other means. The differ- 
ence between the total carbon dioxide at start and the 
total carbon dioxide in the charge after exposure, 
represents the relative loss for each sample under the 
same condition. This loss calculated into per cent. 
upon the total carbon dioxide at the start, of course 
gives fair measure for comparison. To illustrate: 
Suppose we have three samples of baking powder we 
wish to compare as to keeping quality. A, B and C, 
through periods of ten, twenty and thirty hours of the 
moist air exposure. We first determine the total carbon 
dioxide percentage in each ; then weigh out on watch 
glasses three charges of 5 grammes each from sample 
A, marking them A^ A^ and A*; from sample B three 
charges of like weight each, marking them B', B^ and 
B^i and the same from sample C, marking them O, C 
and C*. All of these nine samples are placed at the 
same time in the same saturated atmosphere under the 
bell glass, and the lime noted. After ten hours, charges 
A^, B' and C^ are removed and their carbon dioxide con- 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



Valuation of Baking Powders. 25 

tents determined. After twenty hours total exposure, 
charges A^ B^ and C^ are removed and their carbon 
dioxide contents determined. And after thirty hours 
total exposure, charges A', B* and C^ are likewise 
removed and carbon dioxide contents determined. 
Any convenient number of samples may be carried 
through in series, and any desired length of exposure 
adopted. Finally the carbon dioxide loss calculated 
into per cent, of carbon dioxide at start, gives the 
basis for comparison. In this manner the relative 
keeping quality may be determined between samples of 
baking powders ; and experience has shown that the 
results obtained accord with atmospheric exposures. 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



DiailizodbvGoOgle 



lailizodbvCoOgle 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



Carbon Dioxide Absorption Apparatus. 



A convenient and compact arrangement for a carbon 
dioxide absorption apparatus which I have devised, may- 
be described as follows, reference being had to the 
accompanying cuts, Fig. 1 showing a front view, Fig. 2 
a back view : 

Upon the base M is fixed the longitudinal upright N, 
and about midway of this, the transverse upright P, 
these to support and hold in position the U-tubes, etc, 
forming the essential parts. A is the generating flask 
of convenient capacity, K a reservoir for the decom- 
posing acid with tube running to the bottom of A, con- 
necting through h with the cateh bottle H containing 
soda-lime, to retain any atmospheric carbon dioxide 
when air is aspirated through it. B is a small bulb 
U-tube fixed upon the front side of the longitudinal 
upright at its left hand end, containing concentrated 
sulphuric acid, connecting at one limb with the exit tube 
a of the flask A and at the other limb with the tube b. 
C is a plain U-tube fixed upon the back of the upright 
N, as shown in Fig. 2, connecting with B by tube b, con- 
taining pumice stone saturated with concentrated sul- 
phuric acid. D is a plain U-tube fixed upon the trans- 
verse upright P, connecting with C by c, containing 
pumice stone treated with cupric sulphate, as a catch 
29 



DiailizodbvCoOgle 



30 Absorption Apparatus. 

tube for hydrochloric acid. E is the soda-lime absorp- 
tion U-tube connected with D by </. F is the drying 
tube containing pumice stone saturated with concen- 
trated sulphuric acid, connected directly with E, E and 
F together, with the tube d forming the parts to be 
weighed. G Is a plain U-tube fixed upon the back of 
the upright N, as shown in Fig. 2, connecting with F 
by the tube e, containing pumice stone saturated with 
concentrated sulphuric acid, serving as a catch tube for 
any atmospheric moisture which otherwise might retreat 
into the tubes E and F. g connects G with an aspi- 
rator, /is a wire loop suspending the couplet E and 
F upon the hook as shown. 

The method of operating this apparatus is as follows : 
The absorption couplet E F being detached by 
drawing off the tube d from D, and € from F, and 
connecting d with F, is thus completely sealed from 
absorption from the air. In this condition the weight 
of E F (/is carefully obtained by suspending from the 
pan hook of the balance by the wire loop f. When 
the weight is obtained, the couplet Is re-attached to the 
apparatus in its former position. The weighed charge 
of the material in which the carbon dioxide is to be 
determined, having been introduced into the flask A and 
the requisite amount of decomposing acid Into K with 
the stopcock closed, the whole apparatus is connected 
as shown in the cut. The aspirator being set in opera- 
tion, the stopcock of K Is opened and the acid allowed 
to flow down into A, the aspirating air current flowing 
along first through soda-lime bottle H, to remove all 
atmospheric carbon dioxide, thence through h, K, A, 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG0'0gIe 



Absorption Apparatus. 31 

a, B, b, C, c, D, d, E, F, e, G, g. The stopcock of K 
being now closed, heat is applied to the flask A and 
its contents brought to a rapid boil continued for a few 
minutes. The tube h now being disconnected from H 
is dipped into a quantity of boiling water and the stop- 
cock of K opened again, when the flask A is allowed 
to completely fill with the hot water, up and into the 
elbow of the glass tube, where the rubber tube h is 
attached. In this manner the atmosphere of A is at 
once displaced and much time saved in unnecessary 
aspiration. The rubber tube a, being pinched mean- 
while, is drawn off from A and affixed to H, which 
thus cuts out A and its attachments, and leaves the 
course of the aspirating current to flow through H, 
d, B, b, C, c, D, d, E, F, e, G, g, the carbon dioxide 
being quickly swept through the series and absorbed 
by the soda-lime of E. The current of pure air may 
be drawn through the apparatus at this stage with con- 
siderable rapidity; at the rate of four or five litres at 
least, within ten minutes, without fear of error; which 
would not be the case had the flask A with its steaming 
contents remained in the circuit, when certainly, in such 
rapid flow, some moisture would have been carried 
beyond B, C and D into the absorption couplet. The 
concentrated sulphuric acid in B should be changed 
with almost every determination, thus maintaining C 
for a long time in efficient condition. The effect 
of boiling A is of course to heat up the contents 
of B, which is desirable; for, while concentrated 
sulphuric acid has but slight cold absorption for carbon 
dioxide, it nevertheless would absorb a trace, giving 



DiailizodbvCoOgle 



32 Absorption Ai'I'aratus. 

error to that extent, which might be appreciable should 
excessive sulphuric acid be used. Allowing the sul- 
phuric acid in B to heat up slightly, prevents absorp- 
tion of any carbon dioxide therein, yet forming an 
efficient trap for moisture. Of course the sulphuric 
acid used in the other drying tubes of the apparatus 
would have this property of slight absorption of car- 
bon dioxide and introduce a source of error, were it 
not, that, by allowing a current of dry carbon dioxide 
to flow through these drying tubes for a few moments, 
previous to using for the first time, (of course not 
through the absorption tube,) and then aspirating 
with pure air before actual use, the sulphuric acid is 
saturated and error from this source avoided. This 
apparatus furnishes a rapid and accurate means for 
determining carbon dioxide by absorption. 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 






111! 
Is is 



^1 



I? 

■< * 
c; 5 



bv Google 



Improved apparatus for the volumetric 
determination of Carbon Dioxide 
and other gases. ' 

For the determination of snwil quantities of carbon 
dioxide in readily decomposed carbonates, the process 
and apparatus devised by Dr. Scheibler presents a most 
convenient and rapid method ; but the inability to thus 
measure large quantities of gas has restricted its em- 
ployment fttr-the most part to determination of carbon- 
ate in bone-char. To extend the field of volumetric 
carbon dioxide determination I have devised the follow- 
ing described apparatus, retaining, as far as possible, 
the essential features of the Scheibler, 

Referring to the cut: A, C and D are essentially the 
same as in the Scheibler apparatus ; A being the decom- 
posing bottle in which the portion of the sample to 
be operated upon, is placed, with its enclosed tube for 
the decomposing acid or other solution, with the further 
addition however, of a thermometer, inserted through 
the rubber stopper — a most important feature when the 
decomposition results in wide variations of tempera- 
ture ; C the bottle containing the rubber gas balloon 
connected with A ; and D the water reservoir with com- 
pressing-bulb E, exactly as in the Scheibler device. 
In the Scheibler apparatus, however, the gas evolved is 
directly determined by the displacement of water in a 
graduated tube, the capacity of which is, and must be, 
quite limited. 

' Jonrnal of tli« Ainiiriciui Chf^mical Society, 1893, page 614. 
35 



D,a,l,;t!dbvG00gIe 



36 Volumetric Apparatus. 

In my apparatus I have replaced this graduated tube 
by the bottle B, connected by the tube b with the 
space around the rubber bag in the bottle C, and by 
the tube c, from its bottom, through the stopcock, with 
the tube L; which tube L connects, through another 
stopcock at its opposite end, with the reservoir D, by 
means of the tube d. This tube L, which may be con- 
structed of brass if more convenient, is fixed horizon- 
tally upon the standards, as shown in the cut, and has 
affixed along its upper portion, a series of stopcocks, 
one of which connects with the tube F, and each of the 
others individually, with the pipettes G, H, I and J, 
and the burette K. These pipettes may be respectively 
(using a fifty cc. burette for K) 50, 100, 200 and 200 
cc. capacity, graduated as to contents, between marks 
on the stem and delivery tube, in each case. The tube 
F serves as an equalizer of pressure, as hereinafter 
described. N shows a common tube thermometer 
attached to the standard for convenient reference. 

Before using the apparatus, the reservoir D is 
supplied with water, and by means of the compressing- 
bulb E, the burette and pipettes are filled to their 
zero marks, and their respective stopcocks closed, the 
stopcocks connecting c and F being closed meanwhile. 
The stopcock connecting c is now opened, and the 
bottle B filled a little above a zero mark upon the tube 
b, which for a portion of the way is of glass ; this glass 
tube being so inserted in the rubber stopper that the 
bottle may be entirely filled with water without air 
space. During the filling of B, the stopcock M 
should be opened, connecting as it does with the air 



DiailizodbvCoOgle 



Volumetric Apparatus. 37 

space surrounding the gas bag within the bottle C, 
while the generating bottle A should be disconnected 
and the gas bag collapsed. When B is filled, the stop- 
cock connecting it with L Is closed, and that at F 
opened, and this tube filled in like manner to a p.iint 
higher than the zero mark of B, when the stopcock 
connecting d is closed, and that at c opened again. 
The generating bottle A with its charge of sample and 
acid in the tube, is now connected, and through the 
stopcock connecting d the level of the water in B 
adjusted to the zero mark, that in F subsiding with it.^ 
When the adjustment is thus effected, the stopcocks 
connecting F, and that at M are closed, while that 
connecting with the reservoir through d, is opened, and 
thus free course given for the water between B and D. 
The bottle B being elevated upon the shelf O, there is of 
course a reduction of pressure within the apparatus, 
caused by subsidence of the water level ; which after a 
few moments should cease, showing that the apparatus 
is tight in every joint. If, however, this is not the case, 
and the level continues to subside, there is a leak, which 
must be stopped and a readjustment of pressure 
effected before the operation is continued. 

When all is in readiness, the decomposition of the 
carbonate is effected in A by bringing the acid and 
carbonate together in the usual way, the temperature 
having been noted at the outset. The evolution of the 
gas, distending the rubber gas bag, expels a portion of 
the air from C, which forces the water from B into the 

' Experience in operating this apparatus baa ehowu that it is 
desirable to attach a U-tube iiiauometer to & brancli placed io 
tube a, ni>ar itfl connection with the rubber bag in C, lor the more 
'« ailjustment oE the gas to atmospheric preasure. 



..OO^ IC 



88 Volumetric Apparatus. 

reservoir D, in volume equivalent to the gas evolved at" 
the pressure and temperature prevailing, as is readily 
understood. When complete decomposition is effected, 
and the temperature in A returns to the temperature of 
the room, by means of the bulb E, pressure is exerted 
upon the reservoir D, and the stopcock connecting F 
being opened, the levels in B and F are brought together 
through the stopcock connecting d. 

When this is accomplished, the stopcock at F and d 
are closed. It is seen that the displacement of the 
water in B, obtained in this manner is exactly that of 
the volume of the gas evolved from the carbonate at 
the existing temperature and atmospheric pressure. 
With all stopcocks closed, excepting that connecting 
c, and that at M which should now be opened, the 
bottle B is removed from its shelf to the table upon 
which the apparatus stands, and the amount of the 
displacement measured by running in the contents of 
such of the pipettes, and portion of the contents of the 
burette, as may be required to restore the water level 
in B to the starting point, the amount of water thus 
employed of course being that measure. 

From the volume of gas obtained, the percentage by 
weight of the sample taken is calculated in the usual 
way, either by the formula for correction of volume 
for temperature and pressure, adding of course to the 
volume thus obtained a correction for carbon dioxide 
dissolved in the decomposing liquid, or through the use 
of the tables given originally by Dietrich, (Ztschr. 
anal. Chem., 4, 141). It is to be noted, however, that 
these tables are not strictly correct, the weight of the 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



Volumetric Apparatus. 39 

cubic centimeter of carbon dioxide at O" C. 760 mgms. 
being considerably at variance with that at present given 
by the best authorities ; and some slight errors, in the 
calculation apparently, are also to be observed. In 
ordinary work, however, these are not important. But 
in the use of the table given for solubility of the gas in 
the decomposing acid, one must exercise no little 
caution. In fact for this correction, it is better to 
establish for one's self just what it should be for each 
material operated upon, by check gravimetric deter- 
minations; for while within limits, this may be taken as 
a constant factor, yet it is more or less affected by the 
character of the salts present. And further, this table 
was not carried far enough to cover the large volumes 
of gas evolved from the charges that my apparatus 
enables one to employ. 

With this apparatus it is possible to make a deter- 
mination of carbon dioxide in from ten to fifteen 
minutes, and that with extreme accuracy. Indeed with 
the large charges one may employ, and with careful 
weighings, repeated results obtained from the same 
sample will never vary more than one-tenth per cent. 
and scarcely more in most instances than two or three 
one-hundredths per cent. 

For Bome operations, more particularly where the carbon 
dioside evolved by cold water is to be determined in a baking 
powder, I have devised the fittings and arrangement ot the 
decomposing bottle A, as shown in the accompanying cnt. 

A third holeis pierced through the stopper of A, through which is 
introduced the stem of the glass-stoppered funnel tube P, bearing 
the stopcock r, and having, from its upper portion, the air tube S, 
connecting with a branch inserted in the tube a. It is readily seen 



D,a,l,z<,d=vG00gIe 



40 Volumetric Apparatus. 

from tbie, that tbe weighed charge may b« placed in A, the 
stopper inserted, and, with the stopcock r closed, the charge oF 
decomposing liquid placed in P, and the stopper of Palao inserted, 
when connection may be made with the reet of the apparatus at 
A. All being ready, by opening the stopcock r, the liqnid flows 
readily into A, the necessary air displacement taking place 
through S, the rest of the operation being conducted as above 
described. 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 




DiailizodbvGoOgle 



K 3 



o s 



bvGooglf 



Rumford Chemical Works, 

Providence, fi. I., tf. S. A. 
M. L. HORSFORD, Pres't. N. D. Arnold, Treas. 

This corporation was organized in 1859, for the 
purpose of manufacturing the phosphatic culinary 
preparations invented by Professor E. N. Horsford, one 
of the founders of the company, then Professor of 
Chemistry in Harvard University, and the Rumford 
Professor from 1847 to 1863. Thi? manufacture of 
other special chemicals was also cont^nplated. 

In recognition of the Rumford Professorship and 
in honor of its founder. Count Rumford, the Works 
and the village where the principal manufacturing plant 
is located, were named. 

Productions. 
Phosphatic Acid Powder. — The acid constituent 
of our leavening preparations, Rumford Yeast Powder, 
Horsford's Bread Preparation and Rumford Baking 
Powder; also used for culinary purposes, by families, 
bakers and manufacturers of self-raising flours. A dry, 
white, fine powder, having for its active principle phos- 
phoric acid, possessing a bicarbonate of soda neutralizing 
strength equivalent to that of cream of tartar. Prepared 
in several varieties adapted to the various uses. 

Rumford Yeast Powder. — A mixture of our phos- 
phatic acid powder, bicarbonate of soda and starch. 



DiailizodbvGoOgle 



44 - Productions. 

Packed in sealed glass bottles of various sizes. The 
original name and form of packing used for the phos- 
phate baking powder. 

Horsford's Bread Prepamtfam. — A baking powder, 
composed of our phosphatic acid powder and bicar- 
bonate of soda put up in separate papers ; these being 
wrapped together to form one package. An early 
name and form of package used for the phosphate 
baking powder. 

RUMFORD BAKING POWDER. 

A mixture of our pkospkatic acid powder, bicarbonate 
of soda and starck, identical in leavening quality with 
Rumford Yeast Powder and Horsford' s Bread Prepara- 
tion, but packed in tin cans of the usual sizes. Prepared 
by the latest improved process to retain its strength 
indefinitely. 

Horsford's Acid Phosphate. — A liquid medicinal 
preparation of the phosphates, for diseases of the 
nervous and digestive systems. 

florsford'3 Dicalclc. — A powdered medicinal calcium 
phosphate, without free acid, readily soluble in the 
juices of the stomach. Serviceable where deficiency 
of lime is indicated. A corrective in acidity of the 
stomach, and a remedy in certain forms of dyspepsia. 

Horsford's Anti-Chlorine. — A dry, white, fine powder 
for neutralizing chlorine and acid in paper stock. 




DiailizodbvCoOgle 



DiailizodbvGoOgle 



AN INITIAL FINE OF 25 CENTS 

WILL BK ASSEBHKD FOR FAILURE TO RrTURN 
THIS BOOK ON THK DATE DUK. THE PENALTY 
WILL INCREASB TO BO CENTS ON THE FOURTH 
DAY AND TO CLOO ON THE SEVENTH DAY 
OVERDUE. 



M/m 31 



m 14193; 

NOV 19 193! 



LD ai-50m-l,"Ba 



- Goo. J 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



AN INITIAL FINE OP 25 CENTS 

WIU. BE AflflESSED FOR FAILURE TO RETURN 
TKIB BOOK ON THE DATE DUE. THE PENALTY 
WILL INCREASE TO SO CENTS ON THE FOURTH 
DAY AND TO «I.OO ON THE SEVENTH DAY 
OVERDUK. 



31 



APB 14193! 
OCT 31 v.: 

NOV 19 193i 



35 



j,.,i,z<»iD,GoogIf 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



D,a,l,zt!dbvG00gIe 



