CIHM 


ICMH 


Microfiche 


Collection de 


Series 


microfiches 


(IVIonographs) 


(monograph ies) 




Canadian Institute for Historical Microredroductions/lnstitut canadien de microreproductions historiques 





Technical and Bibliographic Notes / Notes techniques et bibliographiques 



nques 



The Institute has attempted to obtain the best original 
copy available for filming. Features of this copy which 
may be bibliographically unique, which may alter any of 
the images in the reproduction, or which may 
significantly change the usual method of filming are 
checked below. 

Coloured covers / 
Couverture de couleur 

□ Covers damaged / 
Couverture endommag6e 

□ Covers restored and/or laminated / 
Couverture restaur6e et/ou pelliculee 

I I Cover title missing / Le titre de couverture manque 

I I Coloured maps / Cartes g§ographiques en couleur 

□ Coloured ink (i.e. other than blue or olack) / 
Encre de couleur (i.e. autre que bleue ou noire) 

□ Coloured plates and/or Illustrations / 
Planches et/ou Illustrations en couleur 

Bound with other material / 
Reli6 avec d'autres documents 

Only edition available / 
Seule edition disponible 

Tight binding may cause shadows or distortion along 
interior margin / La reliure serree peut causer de 
I'ombre ou de la distorsion le long de la marge 
interieure. 

Blank leaves added during restorations may appear 
within the text. Whenever possible, these have been 
omitted from filming / Use peut que certaines pages 
blanches ajoutees lors d'une restauration 
apparaissent dans le texte, mais, lorsque cela etait 
possible, ces pages n'ont pas ete filmees. 

Additional comments / 
Commentaires suppiementaires: 



D 
D 
D 



D 



D 



This item is filmed at the reduction ratio checked below / 

Ce document est filme au taux de reduction indique ci-dessous. 



L'Institut a microfilm^ le meilleur exemplaire qu'il lui a 
6t6 possible de se procurer. Les details de cet exem- 
plaire qui sont peut-etre uniques du point de vue bibli- 
ographique, qui peuvent modifier une image reproduite, 
ou qui peuvent exiger une modification dans la m6tho- 
de nonnale de filmage sont indiques ci-dessous. 

Coloured pages / Pages de couleur 

I I Pages damaged / Pages endommag6es 



D 



D 
D 



D 



Pages restored and/or laminated / 
Pages restaur^es et/ou pellicul^es 



Q Pages discoloured, stained or foxed / 
Pages d^color^es, tachet^es ou piqu^es 

I I Pages detached / Pages d6tach6es 

|y I Showthrough / Transparence 

Q Quality of print varies / 
Qualit^ in^gaie de I'impression 



Includes supplementary material / 
Comprend du materiel supplementaire 

Pages wholly or partially obscured by errata slips, 
tissues, etc., have been refilmed to ensure the best 
possible image / Les pages totalement ou 
partiellement obscurcies par un feuillet d'errata, une 
pelure, etc., ont 6te filmees a nouveau de fagon a 
obtenir la meilleure image possible. 

Opposing pages with varying colouration or 
discolourations are filmed twice to ensure the best 
possible image / Les pages s'opposant ayant des 
colorations variables ou des decolorations sont 
filmees deux fois afin d'obtenir la meilleure image 
possible. 





lOx 








14x 








18x 








22x 








26x 








30x 
































^/ 
























12x 








16x 








20X 








24x 








28x 









J 



32x 



The copy filmed here has been reproduced thanks 
to the generosity of: 

From the collection of Dorothy Sim 



L'exemplaire filmi fut reproduit grace A la 
gin^rosit^ de; 

From the collection of Dorothy Sim 



The images appearing here are the best quality 
possible considering the condition and legibility 
of the original copy and in keeping with the 
filming contract specifications. 



Original copies in printed paper covers are filmed 
beginning with the front cover and ending on 
the last page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, or the back cover when appropriate. All 
other original copies are filmed beginning on the 
first page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, and ending on the last page with a printed 
or illustrated impression. 



The last recorded frame on each microfiche 
shall contain the symbol —^ (meaning "CON- 
TINUED"), or the symbol V (meaning "END"), 
whichever applies. 

Maps, plates, charts, etc., may be filmed at 
different reduction ratios. Those too large to be 
entirely included in one exposure are filmed 
beginning in the upper left hand corner, left to 
right and top to bottom, as many frames as 
required. The following diagrams illustrate the 
method: 



Les images suivantas ont it6 reproduites avec le 
plus grand soin, compte tenu de la condition et 
de la nenet^ de l'exemplaire film*, et en 
conformity avec les conditions du contrat de 
filmage. 

Les exemplaires originaux dont la couverture en 
papier est imprimie sont filmis en commencart 
par le premier plat et en terminant soit par la 
dernidre page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration, soit par le second 
plat, salon le cas. Tous les autres exemplaires 
originaux sont film^s en commengant par la 
premiere page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration et en terminant par 
la derniire page qui comporte une telle 
empreinte. 

Un des symboles suivants apparaitra sur la 
derniire image de cheque microfiche, selon le 
cas: le symbole — ^ signifie "A SUIVRE", le 
symhoie V signifie "FIN". 

Les cartes, planches, tableaux, etc., peuvent etre 
film6s d des taux de reduction diffdrents. 
Lorsque le document est trop grand pour etre 
reproduit en un seul cliche, il est film* d partir 
de Tangle supirieur gauche, de gauche d droite, 
et de haut en bas, en prenant le nombre 
d'images n^cessaire. Les diagrammes suivants 
illustrent la m^thode. 



1 


2 


3 




1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 



MICROCOPY RESOLUTION TEST CHART 

(ANSI and ISO TEST CHART No. 21 



1.0 



I.I 



1.25 



mil 3-2 

. IIIIM 



1.4 



IM 

2.2 

1 2.0 

1.8 
1.6 



^ A PPL I E D INA^GE I 

ir.:S i^ocheste', New York 14609 USA 

'■= I ?16) 482 - 0300 - Phone 

= (716) 288 - 5989 - Fa. 



A 




B.Y.P.U. 



ook Boo 



It JMllB 




fei. 



^1' 






^, -.-^ 



y 




■\ 



w 



— i 



(^Cf^- ^..■■t^l. (^^ 



^ 



Jf^^a^ :/^j 






^.^ 



3^ 



^ 



^t 






■-' - it.[ 



/ ^ J 



mm* 

... I 



b' ■■ 












m 



Vv, 



"I 



m 




1 



i'l*' 



/' 



#• 



V .i 







■il 



PI 




f 



i 






. mm I II i i i « 



■i>)i'|i!u,.Hi|j«BW«W 



I 



\ 







'# 



t. 



r 






; Che 



i: 

!; 

( I 
( \ 

w 

o 
<) 

<f 

;; 



Peoples Loan and Deposit 

eonpiiity 

41 Adelaide St. East - - Toronto. » 
Capital Stock (fully paid up) - $600,000. 

HON. J. C. AIKINS. 

RRBSIDENT. 



Aloncy received on Deposit at highest current 
rates and interest paid or compounded half yearly. 
Debentures bought and sold. 

Properties for sale on very easy terms of pay- 
meat, monthly or quarterly system adopted, which 
is similar to paying rent. The amount required to 
satisfy both principal and interest of each $100 ad- 
vance paid monthly or quarterlj' is as follows : — 




MONTHLY 
QUARTERLY 



IN 5 
YEARS 


IN 8 
YEARS 


IN 10 IN 12 
YEARS YEARS 


$1 90 

5 75 


$1 28 
3 88 


$1 08 
3 26 


$0 P5 
2 85 



For further particulars apply at the office of the 
Company. 



$. 01. Black, 

manager. 

> W W V^ V^ V^ V^ VW^^ ^ W W^^ WW^^CVwwWW' 



<• 



^^ 



(ll 



\mm 



t - 




li 



■^ 
fe 



Parry Sound Baptist €burcb 

(Erected in 1889 at ii cost of $6,300.) 



Note.— An indebtedness of $2,500.00 still remains upon the 
building. The B.Y.P.U. of the church have undertaken to pay 
off this debt and the i)ublication of this Cook Book is one of 
the enterprises adopted to raise the amount. 

Our Young People have also jjledged themselves to raise 
$240.00 yearly by subscription. 



"CkxxI GxiUlnfi 1(111 not Ix- nwdc 
out of IVkI M(irl(ctln(|." 



. . . Till: . . . 




.YoPoO. 




©©K 



' 



SCLCCnON 

or 



TESTE© RE©EPE; 



he 

av 

of 



ISC 



BY THC LADIES 
or THE 



Parry Sound Baptist Church 



f 



1399 

IKELAMD * BUNDV, PmiNTERS, 
PAHKY SOUNO. 



» ■:, 






• t 



i 



$boc$ 
$Doe$ 









ffke Reading 

2cet 4 dhee ffeeple 

mcHinnon $ €o. 



We sell to you at manufacturers' 
prices. We pay spot cash for our 
goods. The discounts on our large 
turn over is our profit 



XlcH 'Cannot 

to 'Miss 
"tur Special 
Values 



Ladies' Fine French Kid $2 50 to $4 00 

Ladies' Fine Dong 85 and up. 

Misses' Fine Dong 65 and up. 

Ladies' Oxfords 35 and up. 

Ladies' House Slippers... 10 and up. 
Infants Bootees and Shoes 

of all kinds 

Men's fine Dong. Ox 90 and up. 

Men's fine Dong. Bal 1 00 and up. 

Men's Plough Boots 80 and up. 



..flftclkinnon.. 

S, Compani^. 

XLbe JBoot & Sboe people. 

Opposite tbe IDtctocia Douee, pates 9&« 



<^ 




Ipteface 



H 



In presenting a Baptist Young People's Union Cook Book 
to the Public, the Committee of Management do not claim to be 
expert cooks, nevertheless we do claim to be oflfering a first-class 
up-to-date Cook Book. 

Our claim is not based on our ability or our experience in 
cooking, but upon the ability and experience of the house-keepers 
of Parry Sound and vicinity who have contributed the recipes. 

It is not to be expected that any Cook Book, however 
complete it may be, can of itself make a good cook. Success 
in properly preparing and using all the ingredients, care in 
always selecting fresh materials, and careful compounding, are 
all as necessary in cooking as is the knowledge of what to 
use, all of which can only be obtained by experience and a 
careful attention to detail. 

We are offering to the Public only Recipes that have been 
tried, tested, and found excellent in every respect. They have 
been collected only at the expense of a great deal of effort and 
time on the part of the collectors, and we wish here to 
acknowledge our obligatio s to the workers and contributors, 
and to all who have encouraged us, as only through these 
favors and kindnesses have we been able to issue this book. 

Committee. 




\i 



I 






) 



THE WALTONS... 



GENERAL 
MERCHANTS 




A complete stock of 



8 

Q 

— '4. 

5 






u 



staple and Fancv Drv Goods. 



Ready Made Clothing-, Boots and Shoes, Crockery, 
Groceries, Provisions, Seeds, etc. 












H 






-^•(>' 



fHM^~ 



^fJ(IIWl«««w«*s-w 



tnbcx 



PAGE 

Preface 5 

Soups y 

Fish and Shell Fish 17 

Meats ^3 

Salads 35 

Pickles '. 43 

Vegetables 53 

Entrees 63 

Eggs 67 

Breads and Buns 71 

Rolls and Muffins iSl 

Cakes '89 

Frostings 125 

Doughnuts : 143 

Pies 147 

Puddings 166 

Creams and Custards 175 

Canned Fruits and Jellies 182 

Beverages 188 

Candies 191 

Miscellaneous 197 

Medical Department 200 

Essences ii04 

Invalid Cooking 405 

■; I ■ 




"Wf 



wmfmmtm 



■m 



4 % 



'^0&'a. 



T'-' 

J 

J 
J 



Could F;very Housewife Know how Much 



■^ 

{ 

^ 

^ 



Time, Trouble & Labor ; 



i 



IS SAVED 

And how easy cooking is 
made by the .... 

'* Happy Thought Range" 

■^= — She would use no othc-. 

MADE ONLY BY 

m mwm Buck stove €o.» hmm. 



BRANTFORD, Camai .. 






^-^^^^ 






o 















...Vair ^ ^ra/g^.^ 

5?fte "grocers 

¥ ¥ ¥ 

Every lady that deals with Vair & Craig 
always has good luck with her baking be- 
cause she gets nothing but first-class goods. 

VAIR & CRAIG, 

The Grocers 






AAAi\J\i\j\AJ\A^A^*v 




Soups 



"Soup rejoices the stomach, and disposes it to receive and 
digest other food." — Brilliat Savarian. 

Tomatoe Soup 

One can of tomatoes, two cups of boiling water, butter, 
pepper and salt to taste, one half teaspoon soda; add milk 
while eflFervesing. Roll four or five biscuits and add to the 
soup, let come to a boil and serve immediately.— Mrs. W. H. 
Bundy. 

Tomatoe Soup, No. 2. 

Take one quart of fresh or canned tomatoes, put over 
stove, and into this put one pint water, one onion chopped 
fine, and let boil twenty minutes, then put one tablespoon of 
butter, salt and pepper to taste, add one quart fresh milk and 
serve at once. One bunch of celery chopped fine may be used 
instead of the onion and called tomatoe-celery soup. The re- 
cipe may be used without milk by adding a quart of water, 
and smoothing two tablespoons of flour in a little water, and 
letting all boil a little longer. If desired, after the tom.-itoes 
are cooked they can be put through a strainer, and then the 
milk and other ingredients added. Pea, bean and com soup 
may be made in the same way by cooking a little longer, put 
through a strainer, set on the fire again, and the butter, salt, 
pepper and milk added.— Mrs. A. F. Cobb. 

Tomatoe Soup, No. 3. 

One quart of milk, one pint can of tomatoes, one large 
tablespoon of butter, one teaspoon sugar, quarter tablespoon 
soda, two teaspoons flour; put tomatoes on to stew fifteen 
minutes, put milk on to boil in a farina boiler, put butter in 
flour, add to the milk when boiling and stir constantly till 
it thickens. If you are ready to use the soup add sugar and 



■i^ 



10 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



% 



'h. 



'i 



soda to the tomatoes, anil tlmi the boilcil milk; stir and 
strve immcdiatdy. Let stand separate till ready for ramg— 
Mrs. Morrow. 

TOMATOE Soui', No. 4. 

Boil chicken or beef, then strain, add to the soup one 
can of tomatoes, and boil one hour. This will make four 
quarts of soup.— Mrs. Fred Hutchins. 

Potato Soup 
Three medium sized potatoes, one teaspoon chopped onion, 
two salt spoons celery salt or three stalks celery, one teaspoon 
salt a little white pepper, one teaspoon of flour, two teaspoons 
butter, one pint milk; pare and boil potatoes. Cook the on- 
ion and celery with the milk, with which make a white sauce 
by adding the flour and butter. When the potatoes are done 
drain and mash thoroughly, add the sauce and -flavoring, stram 
all through a soup strainer, and set back over the fire m a 
double boiler, and when hot ^.rve. More milk may be added 
if too thick.— Miss Haines. 

Potato Soup, No. 2. 

Thinly slice enough potatoes to make one pmt, with one 
to four small onions for flavoring, and boil in one quart of 
water until perfectly tender, add one pint of rich milk, and 
season with salt and pepper to taste. Serve hot. The 
potatoes and onions may be skimmed and rubbed smooth 
through a colander. 

Asparagus Soup 

Wash two bunches of fresh asparagus carefully and cuv 
into small pieces. Put to cook in a quart of boiling water, 
and simmer gently until perfectly tender, when there should re- 
main about a pint of the liquor. Turn into a colander, and 
rub all through except the hard portion. To a pint of aspar- 
agus mixture add salt and one cup of thin cream and a pint 
of milk; boil up for a few minutes and serve.-Mrs. Cobb. 

Asparagus Soup, No. 2. _ 

Make a soup on the same plan as white soup. Add to 
this soup one half a can of asparagus, or if in season, the tips 
of one bundle of fresh asparagus, cut in pieces one inch long, 
and previously boiled in salted water. Then add a little cream 
and serve very hot.— Miss V. Purvis. 



3v 



<*••- 






B. Y. P. U COOK BOOK. 



11 



Rice Soup 

Take a piece of beef suitable for boiling, wash and place 
in stewpan on the fire, cover with cold water, let cook for 
one hour, add salt, pepper and sage to taste, and half a cup 
of rice; let cook for another hour, adding hot water when 
necessary. After removing the meat add a tablespoonful of 
flour, stirred smoothly in a little cold water. — E. A. Govier. 

Oyster Soup 

Strain the liquor from two quarts of oysters and put in 
a kettle, heat half a gallon of new milk, season with salt and 
pepper, rub three ounces of butter in a little flour, stir into 
the milk, add the liquor, stir well and pour in the oysters, 
and let it come to a boil.— Selected. 

Oyster Soup, No. 2. 

Take one quart of water, one teacup of butter, one pint 
of milk, two teaspoonsful of salt, four biscuits rolled fine, and 
one teaspoonful of pepper, bring to full boiling heat as soon 
as possible, then add one quart of oysters. Let the whole 
come to a boiling heat quickly, and remove from fire.— Mrs. 
Hutchins. 

Beef Soup 

Take sufficient soup stock, boil onion, carrot, potatoes 
and vegetables to suit taste in a little water, and strain into 
the soup stock; add salt, pepper, etc., to suit.— Mrs. C. E. 
Pratt. 

Cheese Soup 

Two cups grated cheese in soup, one slice toast well 
browned, cut in small pieces, placed on cheese. Now take one 
large onion, fried tid brown, and to this add one quart of 
boiling stock; pepper and salt; serve immediately.— Miss Fanny 
Va,nkoughnett, 

Clam Soup 

There is a secret about preparing this soup that is not 
generally known, viz.: If a dozen clams are simmered for fif- 
teen minutes in their own liquor all the good may then be 
pressed out of them in a lemon squeezer. This is proved by 
the dryness of the clam after the process, for it is then only 



A\ 



12 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



r4 



fit to be thrown away. After rejecting the well-s, .'.zed clam 
the remainder is to be added to a sauce made as follows:— 
Into a pint and a half of boiling milk stir a dessertspoonful 
each of flour and butter well blended together, stir until it is 
smooth, add the clam juice, stir well again, remove to a cooler 
part of the range, and after removing to send to table, stir in 
the beaten yolk of an egg that has been mixed with quarter 
of a cup of hot soup. The egg will curdle if allowed to boil. 
No salt is needed with clams, but a little white pepper and 
mace may be added if liked. If a cupful of the above puree 
is saved it is excellent to use between the layers of scalloped 
clams.— Emily Ford. 

Turkey Soup 

Take the turkey bones and cook for one hour in water 
enough to cover them, then stir a little of the dressing and a 
beaten egg. A little chopped celery improves it. Take from 
the fire, and when the water has ceased boiling add a little 
butter, with pepper and salt.— Mrs. C. E. Pratt. 

Turkey Soup, No. 2. 

Take the turkey bones and cook for one hour in water 
enough to cover them, then stir in a little dressing and a 
beaten egg; teke from the fire, and when the water has ceased 
boiling add a little butter with pepper and salt.— Mrs. Fred 
Hutchins. ' 

Vegetable Soup 

One turnip, one carrot, one onion, the corn off two ears 
of corn, two tomatoes, two potatoes, a small piece of cab- 
bage, half a stick of celery, half a green pepper, chop all vege- 
tables very fine and boil in as little water as possible till 
tender, then add one quart brown stock soup, with pepper 
and salt to taste.— Miss Fanny Vankoughnett. 

Qreen Corn Soup 

Cut corn from cobs, and boil half an hour in enough 
water to cover them. Take out the cobs, put in the com 
and boil twenty minutes. To one quart corn and water add 
one pint milk; salt and pepper to taste, a spoonful of butter 
and a very slight thickening of rice flour or cornstarch.— Miss 
V. Purvis. 



'W^ 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



13 



Qreen Pea Soup 

One quart grecu peas, cooked and put through colander; 
put one pint milk, two tablespoons butter, one tablespoon 
flour smoothed in a little milk, in a double boiler; when boil- 
ing add the peas, jjcpper and salt, and half a pint of cream; 
serve quickly.— Miss Fanny Vankoughnett. 

Pea Soup 

One pint peas, one pint water, one pint milk, one tea- 
spoon each sugar and salt, one pinch pepper; add binding of 
butter and flour. You can make potato, bean, squash, celery, 
and various soups the same way. Binding means to let the 
butter come to a sizzle on the stove, and ctir in the flour. — 
Miss Gillespie. 

Beef 5oup Stock 

Take a shfink of beef and cut the meat in fine pieces, 
take out the marrow and with a piece of butter put into a 
kettle, put over the fire and when hot add the meat and cook 
till brown, then add the bones and suflBcient hot water to 
cover; boil four hours, strain, and set away to cool. 

Soup Stock 

To make a good soup stock, trim meat off" bones and let 
it come to a simmer. Boil slowly as long as you can. Add 
meat which has been soaked in cold water, also add the 
water. Let boil until meat is well boiled. — Miss Gillespie. 

Brown Soup 

One pound of meat and bone to a quart of cold vater; 
soak half an hour, then let slowly boil; one tablespoon each 
of carrots, turnips and celery, three pepper-corns, two allspice 
berries, two cloves and summer savor}', th3'^me, baj' leaves, sweet 
basil; one teaspoon of these mixed herbs to a quart. — Miss J. 
Adair. 

Corn let Soup 

One can cornlct or six ears of grated corn. Put one 
quart milk in a double boiler, add two tablespoons corn 
starch; when thoroughly cooked add the eorulet or grated 
com, one tablespoon pepper, and salt to taste, one tablespoon 
chopped p.arsley, cook fifteen minutes, — M. F. V. 



tm 



14 



U. Y. P. U. COOK IU)0K. 



Corn Soup 

Three pints of .nilk to one can of c.rn. one tahles.jocm 
butter four rolled «oc.a Diseuits, pe,.,.er and salt to i .,U. 
Mrs. Urunton. 

Fishermen's Soup 
..„t ., ,uu,rt«r of a poui..l of hMM into a »ttwp.,.i. au.l 

„„„„'::,u;,;';;;;:, .. o„„l .. "<-;t,,rrr;ror:«',: 

»,„w fire a fow ,m.u,u»; ;^; ';' , -" , ^ " r I..' mn«, l,avh,« 
and ,„o .,uarts of »"""■ ,'•7. '! , ,, "j„, „„,„, „„d irimmmgs 
„n.vio..ly «""^'^^'";:,n^,: "•.;:' ,,^K. of „acc, two bay 
to th. soup »■' "' ^^ ;„;^, „, „„,„„,i,,, „„c ditto of 
leaves, one spoo f,,^ '^^^^ ,., cavcane, a little saRar aad 

rraS, S atat-'hlllf fpiat of erea. if possible, aad it is 
ready to serve.-Mrs. Mary Bate. 

Ox-tail Soup 

, V f. .;i« set)aratinK them at the joints; put 
Cut up two ox-tails, stparciuiuH 

,, ^f Uuttcr 'It the bottom of a stewpan. then put 

a small p.eee of b ttu at the D ^^^^_^^^^ ^^ ^^^^^^^ 

"";' : sr. pirt s\W:;' JLioa^ly. antU the bottom of 

a cuarter of a pound of ^^''''J^ll'^J^ ^^ tablespoon of salt 
stewpan witl^three cpunrts o w^^^^^^^^^ ^^^ ^^^^^^^ ^^. 

and stir --;«-"^^"> . ^^^ j^/^^f "^ll of good brown gravy, or a 
the stove, skim well add a ^m o g _^^^ 

r r^rv^^emrX' ^1 t mh 7-1^- from the bones, 
stewed very tender, tnc nc h 

then take them out "--«^;^^^^^^^ t^'trZ. over them, 
the elear vegetable soup.-Mrs. Bate. 



i I 



U. V. 1'. U. COOK HOOK. 



15 



Celery Soup 

Take a chicken, boil it all to pieces, and strain. The 
next (lay put into it pieces of celery; simmer till thoroughly 
cooked, tlien add a cup of cream or milk; thicken it with a 
little rice rtour; add pepper and salt.— Miss V. Purvis. 

Tapioca Soup 

Two tablespoons tajnoca boiled in water; add soui) stock 
when tapioca is cooked. Make a binding.— Miss Adair. 

Cream Pea Soup 

One can green jjcas, one pint water, half i)int scalded 
milk, one tablespoon butter. Cook peas well and mash; make 
a binding of butter and dour, and .stir into soup ju.st before 
serving; season to taste.— Mrs. J. A. Rntledge. 

Bean Soup 

Take one pint of benns, parboil and drain off the water, 
atlding fresh water. Never put cold water u])on beans 
which have been once heated, as it hardens them. 
Boil until perfectly tender, season with pepper and 
salt, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut, 
or more if preferred. When done skim out half the beans, 
leaving the broth with the remaining half in the kettle; now 
add a teacup of sweet cream or good milk, a dozen or more 
of crackers broken up, let it come to a boil, and you have a 
dish good enough to offer a king.— Mrs. J. A. Kutledge. 



"Soups prepared from grains, legumens and vegetables 
are so largely composed of food material that it is important 
that they be retained in the' mouth long enough for proper in- 
salivation, and in order to insure this it is well to serve with 
the soup croutons, prepared by cutting stale bread into small 
squares or cubes, and browning thoroughly in a moderate 
oven. Put a spoonful or two of the croutons in each plate, 
and turn the hot soup over them. This plan also serves an- 
other purpose— that of providing a means whereby the left-over 
bits of stale bread may be utilized to advantage. 



'ff.,' ,.,..... Jl> 



' ^ 



16 



H. V. l*. I'. COUK lUKJK. 



ii 






c/AjtAjty M^-^tnU -A^nJ/ Oyft-e^cA^ ^ /ka^ 




li . 




I Millinery '"^ Fancy Goods 



Are Specialties at 



*% 



M Ladies are invited to visit our 
Millinerv rooms and examine 
the latest in HATS, BONNETS 
or SAILORS. 



t 



WELLER'S 
EMPORIUM 



Of every description always in stock. Something 
beautiful for the holiday season. 

IK* v4^-^^llvl ^ next ty Post <n(Hce. 



H 






jfisb ^ni> Pbcll jfisb 



"These shall yi «'at of nil thiit nre in the waters: what- 
soever hath lins and scales in the wa.cis. in the seas, and in 
the rivers, them shall ye eat." 

Baked Canned Salmon 

Take snmll can salmon, chop lnu lul p, in an earthen 
dish. Take one pint sweet milk, and wbm hot take two tfi' ie- 
spoons of flour that has been mixed an )th with cold .ilk, 
put into the hot milk and let I >il till t thickens; aud to 
this a small piece of butter, some pepper . nd 8«I' , and about 
two tablespoors of celery chopped very fine, mix ill into the 
salmon and bake half an hour.— Mrs. Cobb. 

Stewed Codfish 

Use a thick piece of the salt fish, lay 
for a few minuti , shred it in small bits, pui 
a stewpan with i >ld water, Ut it come to a ' 
water, add cme p nt rich milk, plate again i, 
let boil slowly five minutes; add a piece of but 
pepper, and thicken with a little flour mixed 
milk, stir a little longer, then stir iti a well be, 
for breakfast.— Mrs. .VI. A. Converse 

Fish Balls 

Take one box shredded codfish, eight boileci potatoes 
medium size, and thn raw onions chopped fine; if ■ flavor 
is not liked so strong ise less onion and more potato; mix all 
together, add one egg, a tablespoon of butter, four tablespoons 
milk, a little pepper a id sage, if liked, form into cakes and 
fry in nice pork fat, sing the scraps as a garnish. This 
recipe makes a baker's dozen of very nice fish cakes, and is 
an economic.'sl hn-.'sUfosI Mr*- f. Cakler. 



to told water 
)ver the fire in 
' turn off" the 
the fire, and 
and a little 
h. some cold 
n egg. Nice 




■■lil 



«fla*(«l«.»j»S:fc«B»-;*^S' 



1« 



U. V. p. U. COUk BOOK. 



Salmon Balls 

Potatoes iiuishccl. a little salt and i)ei)i)cr, cracker crumbs 
am! salmou made into balls and fried in butter.-Mrs. H. S. 

Fish Puffs 

Remove all the skin and bones from a pound of any 
kind of cold fish, chop fine, mix with ecpial parts of mashed 
potatoes, season highly with salt and pepper, add one egg 
well beaten, form in small balls, roll in flour and iry brown 
in boiling lard; serve hot with walnut pickles— Mrs. B. Slade. 

Boiled Whitefish 

Lay the fish open, put in a dripping pan with back 
down, nearly cover with water; to one fish jjut two table- 
spoons of salt, cover tightly and simmer (not boil) for half an 
hour, dress with gravy, butter and pepper, garnish with sliced 
egg. For sauce use a piece of butter the size of an egg, 
one tablespoon of flour, half a pint boiling water, boil a few 
mhmtes, and add three hard boiled eggs sliced.— Mrs. J. Tuck. 

A Nice Way to Utilize Pieces of Left Over Fish 

Pick over nicely very small, be sure all the bones are 
removed, then cook in a little milk with butter, jiepper and 
salt till all are well mixed and thickened, put into a baking 
dish, sprinkle with fine bread crumbs and little pieces of bvitter, 
set in hot oven and brown nicely.— Mrs. F^rank Halliday. 

Baked Boers 

Dress your fish nicely, salt to taste, lay it out flat in a 
well greased dripping pan, leaving flesh side up, scatter small 
pieces of butter on fish, then bake until done, from twenty 
minutes to half an hour, according to size of fish, then pour 
over the fish a cupful of sweet cream, and return to oven 
until nicely browned; a very hot oven is required.- H. C. M. 

Gaspe Codfish 

Shred the fish, cover with cold water and let stand for 
a time; when ready prepare it, pour off water and cook for 
three or four minutes in fresh water, pour this off and add a 
pint of rich milk, make a white sauce, cook thoroughly; when 
ready to t.nke from the fire, add a thoroughly beaten egg.— Mrs. 
• ]. h. 11. 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



19 



Salmon Croquetts 

Take one small can of salmon, two eggs, butter size of 
an egg, two tablespoons of rolled crackers, one teaspoon salt, 
half a teaspoon pepper, beat all together, make into small 
cakes, and fry in hot lard.-Mrs. M. A. Converse. 

Salmon Croquetts, No. 2. 

One can salmon, three tablespoons cream, one egg, two 
medium sized fresh boiled potatoes mashed, half tablespoon 
butter, pepper and salt to taste, mash all together with a 
fork, form in little patties, roll in flour, and fry till brown.- 
Miss F. Vankoughnett. 

Creamed Oysters 

Make a cup of thick white sauce, season with salt, 
pepper, celery salt and mace, wash and drain one pint of 
oysters, drop' them into a little of their own liquor, and boil 
one minute, skip, strain and add to the white sauce, make 
tpiite hot, or boil, one or two minutes, and serve either on 
toast or pastry shells, or small individual dishes.-Miss Haines. 

Fried F«sh 

After having removed the backbone, cut the fish in pieces 
and roll in flour, with salt and pepper in flour, and fry in 
plenty of butter until a nice brown. Have butter hot before 
placing fish in frying pan.— Selected. 

Clams 
Wash, put in boiling water, and cook until the shells 
crack open, when they arc done.— Selected. 

Boiled Fish 

Quart of water with a tablespoon salt for a large fish, 
put the fish in a cloth and boil for three-quarters of an hour. 

SAUCE FOR ABOVE 

A pint and a half of new milk, a piece of butter size of 
an egg. half teaspoon salt, a little pepper, and two beaten 
eggs; thicken with two tablespoons of flour, pour over fish 
and serve hot.-Mrs. J. F. Wiggins. 

To Fry Shad 

Clean, wash, wipe dry, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
dip ill flour, and fry in hot lard .-Selected. 



20 



H. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



Oyster Patties 

Make a shell of puff-paste and partly bake, shake ovsters 
seasoned, m a double boiler until heated through, pu't one 
oyster ,n e£ieh shell and return to oven for a few minutes 
Serve hot.— Mrs. Hymers. 

Salmon Loaf 

One can salmon, remove all bones and chop fine two 
eggs, three erackers rolled fine, salt and pepper to suit the 
taste, a pieee of butter the si.e of an egg, bake twenty min- 
utes.-Mrs. \V. 0. McDonald. 

Lobster or Salmon Cutlets 

Take two good sized lobsters, weighing together about 
three pounds, bod and remove the shell, save the coral, chop 
the meat thoroughly, add to it one big cup bread crumbs 
and heapmg tablespoon butter, mix thoroughly, and add a 
•scant teaspoon salt, half saltspoon mustard, half saltspoon 
pepper and red pepper; make a stiff paste of the mixture by 
addmg suffiaent white sauce; shape into cutlets, brush with 
beaten egg, roll in bread crumbs and frv. Serve with a rich 
white sauce, to which has been added the coral beaten to a 
smooth paste; garnish with parsley.-lvliss Haines. 

Baked Bass 

Take a three pound bass, remove all bones, cut in 
squares and put ,n a flat bowl, sprinkle with pepper and salt 
add two teaspoons butter on top, one pint mJshrooms stew d 
in one pmt water till tender, then pour over the fish, cook „ 
a moderate oven for half an hour; or when done add two 

"ankr^nlt'""'- '" '''''' '''' -' "" ^^U.r.-M^.. Fanr^ 

Baked Fish 

Select a perfectly fresh proiu-rly dressed fisb rinse 
thoroughly and wipe dry, fold it together a„d plaei i^a 

steadTvTt", r"d " Tf '"'""'^ "■•■""• '^'•"'^ ''""'^ ""^ 

^rii.X'Tt. tt„"iLr'7det:i : ;z.rt 



'\- 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



21 



Fish I'urbot 

One cup cold boiled fish, three-quarter cup cream or 
milk heated, one tablespoon butter and one tablespoon of flour 
rubbed together and stirred in boiling cream, season with salt 
and pepper and chopped parsley, add fish. Butter a baking 
dish and line with crumbs, put in fish and bake in oven 
about twenty minutes, or until a light brown.— Mrs C E 
Pratt. 

Boiled Salt Mackeral 

Soak the fish over night, place in cold water, let simmer 
for about fifteen minutes; when done remove and pour over it 
butter and cream.— Mrs. M. D. A. 

Fish Croquetts 

One cup thick white sauce to one pint chopped meat or 
fish, stir meat into sauce, add bread or soda biscuit crumbs 
until thick enough to shape with the hands, shape into balls, 
flatten, roll in beaten egg and then in crumbs, fry in oven. 
White sauce is made as follows:— One tablespoon butter, one 
tablespoon flour, quarter teaspoon salt, half saltspoon pepper, 
one cup scalded milk; melt butter, rub in flour, and add milk 
and seasoning.— Mrs. Banks. 

Scalloped Oysters 

One pint oysters washed and drained, third cup melted 
butter, one cup stale bread or cracker crumbs tossed in the 
melted butter; butter a shallow dish, sprinkle in a thich layer 
of the crumbs, then a layer of oysters; season with salt and 
pepper, add lemon juice or mace as may be preferred, add an- 
other laj-er of crumbs, oysters, etc., until they are all 
in, finishing with crumbs on top; bake in hot oven twenty 
minutes. — Mi,ss Haines. 

Scalloped Oysters, No. 2. 

One quart of nice large oysters, drain through colander 
until all juice is off, butter an earthen dish and sprinkle with 
cracker crumbs, then a layer of oysters, butter, pepper and 
salt; keep doing this until your dish is full, beat an egg until 
light, add a cup of milk, pour this on top, put in the oven 
and cover for one hour and a half, then set for ten minutes 
on top grate and brown nicely.— Mrs. Butt. 



imf'ttommmK 



utMbfiH 



22 



B. Y. P. U. cools: BOOK. 



Salmon Rolls For Tea 

One tin (jf sfilinou, eight cnickers, two eggs, half cup of 
sweet milk, huH" teaspoon salt, pci)pcr and melted butter, roll 
crackers fine and mix with a spoon, then form in long shai)efl 
rolls with your hands, and fry brown in dripping or butter. — 
Mrs. W. K. Foot. 

Boiled Pike 

Ouarter of a pound of salt to each gallon of water; a 
little vinegar — scascmable from September to March. Method — 
Scale and clean the pike and fasten, put it on the fire, and 
when it simmers throw in the salt and vinegar; a medium 
sized pike will take about half an hour. If the water is 
allowed to pass beyond the most gjntle simmer possible the 
fish will be spoiled. Serve with anchovy sauce and melted 
butter. Time— According to size, from half an hour to one 
hour. — Selected. 

Fried White Herring^s 

Clean and scale the fish and dry them, fry with butter 
and garnish with parslej-. — C. M. A. 



THE CELEBRATED^ 






ARE NOT EXCELLED IN 
THEIR QUALITY OF 

TONE and TOUCH 

By any other Piano on the 
Market. 

Sent direct from factory to any 
point in Canada subject to approval 
at our expense, and sold for cash or 
on easy terms at a reasonable price, 
Guaranteed seven years. Write for 
catalogue. 



w 



V Ufa Drurkrvic «■ 



11, :x:vsiii3v;iiu Jl,, TVC3i., lUrUlllU. 



flDeats 



" Whcitsoevcr parteth the hoof, and is clovenfooted, and 
chewcth the cud, among the beasts, these shall ye eat." 

Heat Turnovers 

One eggcup sweet milk, flour to make a thin batter, chop 
meat very fine and flavor with pepper and salt, make a pan- 
cake, cook -on one side, turn over, and while cooking on the 
other put meat on top, turn the cake half over and serve 
hot.— Miss Haines. 

Meat Omelette 

Chop very fine about a pint of cold meat, to this add 
one onion chopped fine, pepper and salt, and two eggs, mix 
all together nicely, then tr.ke a tabiespoonful, flatten out, put in 
cracker crumbs, and fry on a porcelain dish and roast in 
oven.— Mrs. W. H. W. 

Beef Croquettes 

Chop the bits of beef very fine, to one cup of chopped 
meat add one half cup of biscuit crumbs, one egg, a little 
mustard, one half teaspoon salt, pepper and melted butter, a 
little milk to make hold together, make into cakes and fry in 
lard.— Mrs. W. H. Bundy. 

Curried Mutton Chops 

Two lbs. of mutton chops, cut off most of the fat, slice 
two onions in your saucepan with two ozs. of butter, when 
soft add one tea cup of milk and one pint of water or just 
enough to cover your mutton chops; let simmer for an hour, 
then add pepper and salt vi-ith a teaspoonful of curry. If 
tender lift out your chops in your dish, thicken the gravy 
with a little corn flour ; put toast around and serve very hot. 
—Mrs.. W. R. Foot, 



m 



24 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



-'■% 



Oyster Dressing lor Turkey 

One loaf of bread crumbled, season with pepper and salt, 
two-thirds of a cup of melted butter, stir well through the 
crumbs, add one quart of well drained oysters, mix carefully 
through the crumbs so as not to break them, pack closely m 
the turkey —Mrs. Beveridge. 

Beefsteak Loaf 

Two lbs. of beefsteak, three eggs, seven tablespoonfuls milk, 
two teaspoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, and a piece of butter 
the size of a small egg; mince the beef finely, roll eleven or 
twelve crackers, and mix all to form a loaf; bake for an hour 
and a half and baste with butter and a little pepper.-Mrs. W. 
R. Foot. 

Jellied Tongue 

One large boiled tongue cold, two ounces of gelatine 
stirred in a cupful of water, a cupful of browned veal, a pint 
of liquor in which the tongue had been boiled, a tablespoouful 
of burnt sugar, dissolved in cold water, add the dissolved 
gelatine and mix well, then the boiling water and stram 
through flannel, cut tongue in slices as for table.-Mrs. Knifton. 

Spice Cake 

One cup brown sugar, % cup butter, fill up with butter- 
milk, 1 egg, 1% cups flour, 1 small teaspoon of soda, V2 tea- 
spoon cream tartar, 1 dessert spoon of cinnamon, cloves, 
allspice and nutm.;g.— Mrs. D. F. Macdonald. 

Roast Beefsteak 

Prepare a dressing as for goose, then sprinkle bits of 
butter over the bottom of a roasting pan, then lay a layer 
of well pounded steak, then a layer of dressing, repeat and end 
with dressing, drop bits of butter all through it so as not to 
have it dry.— Mrs. E. Shropshire. 

Beef Loaf 

Three and one-half pounds round steak chopped fine, one 
cup milk, one teaspoon of pepper, one teaspoon salt, one cup 
rolled crackers, two eggs, piece of butter the size of an egg, 
bake three hours and a half.— Mrs. Cobb. 



'■'v 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



25 



Beef Patties 

Chop fine some cold beef, beat two eggs and mix with 
the meat, add a little milk, melted butter, salt and pepper, 
make into rplls and fry. — Mrs. Maxwell. 

Fried Venison 

Cut venison thin, dip in egg well-beaten, roll in fine 
biseuit crumbs, fry very slowly until nicely browned. — Miss 
Prentice. 

Rice and Meat Croquettes 

One cupful of boiled rice, one cupful finely chopped cooked 
meat (any kind), one teaspoonful salt, a little pepper, two 
tablespoons of butter, half a cupful milk, one egg. Put the 
milk on to boil and add the meat, rice and seasoning. When 
this boils add the egg, well beaten, stir one minute. After 
cooling, shape, dip in egg and crumbs and fry.— Mrs. C. E. 
Pratt. 

Beef or Veal Loaf 

Three pounds beef or veal and a quarter pound salt pork 
fat, chopped fine, salt and pepper, three-quarter cup cracker 
crumbs, two-thirds cup of cream, two eggs beaten, make in 
loaf to fit pan, add bits of butter on top, bake two hours.— 
Mrs. C. E. Pratt. 

Little Pigs in Blankets 

One pint large oysters thoroughly dried on a linen towel, 
peppered and salted, roll each oyster in a slice of bacon cut 
very thin, pin together with toothpicks, fry in a hot pan till 
brown. — Miss F. Vankoughnett. 

Jugged Venison • 

Cut venison in pieces and put in a double boiler (not a 
steamer) without water, but having plenty of water in lower 
part of boiler, steam all day then by night the meat will be 
as tender as a piece of chicken and the liquid will have stewed 
out of it without having put any water on, thicken grav}' 
with a spoonful of cornstarch or flour, season with popper 
and salt. Beef is delicious in this way, no matter how 
f-ojjrri; jt Will hc Ycrv tcndcr. — Mrs. Dr. Cunnin^'ham. 



'.', '- nl»»l"«*»*^' 



^M 



i 



26 



B. Y. P. U. COOK HOOK. 



1 


U 


i .. 


4 




r 




o 




i 



Roast Beef With Potatoes 

Take a nice roast of beef, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
])lace in a dripping pan with a piece of suet on the top; 
about a half hour before the roast is done place potatoes cut 
in halves over the roast ; baste occasionally, remove and make 
gravy in pan and serve. — Mrs. Cobb. 

Hash With Eggs 

Make a fine hash of potatoes, beef and bread crumbs, 
dro]) on a buttered griddle and fry both sides brown; place 
upon a platter and cover with a dropped egg.— Mrs. G.L.D. 

Clam Fritters 

Chop twelve large raw clams very fine, season them with 
salt and pepper, and stir in half a cupful of flour and two 
well beaten eggs, when well mixed add more flour if too thin; 
drop by tablespoonful into hot lard, when brown skim out, 
drain on paper and serve. 

Cold Beef and Dry Bread or Biscuit Balls 

Chop your beef very fine, then soak your bread in cold 
water till it is soft, then take it in the hands and squeeze as 
much of the water out as you can, having two-thirds as much 
bread as meat, the. mix the bread and meat thoroughly to- 
gether, beat three eggs well and mix in, add salt to taste and 
grate in enough nutmeg to season nicely, make out in balls 
about the size of a small biscuit, and fry slowly in butter or 
fat till brown on both sides.— Selected. 

lugged Rabbit 

Cut in nice pi<.^ 1 roll these in floirr, put in fryingpan 

half cup butter; when ..^c put in the meat, brown well on 
both sides; when well browned put meat in stewpan and add 
a little flour to the butter left in fryingpan, stir until well 
browned and smooth, then add three cups of water and cook 
for ten minutes; pour this over the meat in stewpan, add one 
onion, two bay leaves, three cloves, half dozen allspice, one 
tablespoon salt, half teaspoon pepper, one tablespoon mush- 
room catsup or any other, cover closely and simmer for one 
and one half hours, then add one tablespoon lemon juice and 
the catsup last; strain the gravy over the rabbit and serve. 
Boiled rice served vviLb Lhe rabbit. — Mrs. C. E. Pratt. 



D. V. r. U. COOK BOOK. 



27 



Partridge Pie 

Line the bottom of pie-dish with a slice of veal, cut 
moderately thick, and rather highly season with white pepper 
and salt; have ready picked, drawn, and trussed a couple of 
young partridge, pour one glass of cherry juice over the veal, 
and lay in the partridge breast to breast, laying a piece of 
fat bacon over each, cover with paste, sticking the feet 
of the partridge in the top of the pie, and bake as before.— 
Mrs. S. Bate, Depot Harbor. 

Pressed Chicken 

Boil a chicken until very tender, take out all the bones 
and chop the meat quite fine, season with salt, pepper and 
butter, add to it th« liquor in which the chicken was boiled, 
one cup of bread crumbs made soft with hot water, add to 
this the chopped chicken; when heated take out and press in a 
basin.— Mrs. A. F. Cobb. 

ninced Meat with Tomatoes 

Cold roast or boiled beef, chop it fine, take about equal 
quantity of tomatoes, season with salt and pepper, put a 
layer of bread or cracker crumbs in pudding dish, put in the 
minced meat and tomatoes, spread a layer of crumbs on top, 
with a little butter, and pour over one teacup of water; bake 
one hour. Very nice; use enough butter to brown the top.— 
Mrs. C. E. Pratt. 



Sauce for Beefsteak 

Black pepper, whole, and salt, of each one and a half 
ounces, allspice, whole, horseradish and small pickled onions, of 
each one ounce, ground mustard, half ounce, good catsup, one 
quart. Directions— Pound the pepper and allspice finely, then 
bruise the radish root and onions together, and put all into 
the *"-sup, in a jug, cork and shake daily .^l two weeks, i.ad 
strain through coarse ♦muslin and bottle for use; or moderate 
heat applied to all in a saucepan for two or three hours, then 
strained, will obtain the full strength of the spices; if too thick 
for use after the heat thin with good vinegar. Nice for roasted 
or boiled meats as well as steak.- Mrs. T. Yates. 



28 



U. V. v. II. COOK BOOK. 



Mint 3auce 

Mix one tablespoon of white sugar to half a teacu]) of 
good vinegar, adfl mint chopped very fine, one-half a sjjoon of 
salt; serve with roast lamb or mutton.— Selected. 

Jellied Chicken or Veal 

Boil in water until meat falls from bones, chop fine, and 
season with salt, pepper, nutmeg; put in mould in layers of 
meat, hard boiled eggs, and small pieces of lemon. Boil down 
liquor, add a little gelatine, pour into moulds, and leave in 
cool place all night.— Mrs. P. Turner. 

Creamed Cliicl<en or Turl<ey 

Put two tablespoons butter and two of flour in pan, 
mix well and add 1 pint milk, stir till boiling, add 1 pint of 
cold chicken or tu-rkey chopjjcd fine, a little grated onion and 
parsley, and salt and pepper. Heat and pour over slices of 
toast.— Mrs. Complin. 

Rabbit Pie 

Cut up, soak in salt water half an hour and boil tender, 
cut some fat pork in ,,-.rips and boil two eggs hard, put in a 
pie dish lined with pa.s£o a layer of the pork then rabbit, and 
slices of egg; add salt, pepper, butter, mace and lemon juice; 
thicken with flour; the water the rabbit was boiled in pour 
over, cover with paper, bake one hour.— Nahnoo. 

Hamburg^ Steak 

This is one of the nicest ways of cooking steak which is 
a little tough, in fact our family prefer it to sirloin which 
costs mvi X than twice as much. The meat dealer will chop 
it for you when purchased or it may be prepared at home if 
you have a meat chopper. Put an onion finely cut in the 
frying pan with a little butter or suet, let it cook and brown 
nicely, then take out or draw to one side and put in the meat, 
patted into small flat cakes about as large as tLe top of a 
cofiee cup. These will cook quickly, browning first on side 
then the other, and arc very nice. TRe onion gives a relish 
for those who like it, but may be omitted. I often take beef 
which is tough, chop it, mix with a little onion, salt, pepper, 
sage, etc., and bake in a small brick tin, to be sliced cold.— 
Miss Maggie Calder. 



V. '. U. 'XWK BOOK. 



29 



SCnffe < tieef steak 

Take a i leak abo an incb thick, ninke a stuffing 

the usual way, ,,.cad over the steak, )11 up u< tie securely, 
put in an iron kettle, with not t > nuch w; , and stew 
slowly about two hours; when doi thicken • ■ gravy and 
pour over. Carve in slices through the steak and stuffing. — 
Mrs. J. Harrison. 

Beefsteak Stew 

Take a pound of raw steak off the round, cut in linger 
lengths, and lay in an earthen dish with four onions, whole, 
one in each corner, cover with cold water, sprinkle the top 
thickly with Hour, salt and iwpper, put in the oven about 
nine o'clock, keep it covered and let it cook until noon; keep 
plenty of water; thicken if needed, with flour before serving. — 
Mr.s. George Moore. 

Recipe for Curing Meat 

» 

To one gallon of water take one and a half pounds of 
salt, half pound brown sugar, half an ounce of saltpetre. The 
above pickle can be increased to any quantity desired. Let 
this boil until ail the dirt from the sugar rises to the top, 
and skim off; then put into a tub to cool, and when cold 
pour over your pork or beef. The meat must be well covered 
with the pickle.— Mrs. D. F. Macdonald. 

Celery Sauce for Fowl 

Clean three or four heads of nice celery, divide and cut 
into small pieces, using white part only; boil it in a sufficient 
amount of white stock, season with white pepper, salt and 
nutmeg; when it is tender add a small piece of butter rolled 
in flour, and three spoons of cream, warm it up again, but do 
not let it boil; pour over turkey, chicken or duck. — Mrs. T. 
Yates. 

Mock Duck 

One slice steak half inch thick, make a dressing as for 
turkey, put the dressing in the steak and tie tightly, then put 
in a pot and stew elowly till tender; serve with brown 



IS 



■ ' 'f'i^S^''"^'.< 






30 



«. Y. P. U. COO.. UUOk. 






?!' ; ;ii' 



m 



Lamb's Heart 

Parboil uhovi (itU-cti minutes, take from stove and ntufl" 
with a dressing made of bread erumbs. butter, suj^e, salt and 
|)ei)|)er, plaec in tin with siiees of fat baeon and bake twenty 
minutes, basting often.— Mrs. Complin. 

Potted Ham or Tong^ue 

Chop any left over pieees of tongue or ham, mix to paste, 
add to each half pint a little mace and two ounces meUed 
butter, salt, pepper, pack in glasses, with little melted butter 
poured over the top.— Mrs. Complin. 

nince neat 

Four pounds apples, half pound suet, two pounds raisins, 
I two i)ounds currants, two pounds brown sugar, one cup vine- 
gar, four lemons, add juice and chop peel, half pound candied 
peel, a little nutmeg and allspice, mix all well together.- Mrs. 
Cryderman. 

Mince Meat, No. 2f 

Two cups chopjK'd meat, two cuj)s raisins, two cups cur- 
rants, three cups brown sugar, one and a half cups molasses, 
six cups chopped api)les, two cups meat liquor, four teaspoons 
salt, four teaspoons cinnamon, two teaspoons cloves, one tea- 
spoon allsjiicc, half pound citron, one cup brandy, quarter cup 
vinegar.- Mrs. J. J. Canfield, Depot Harbor. 

Turkey Stuffed With Oysters 

Grate one quart bread crumbs, the bread must be very 
stale, add half cup butter cut in little lumps, season with 
pepper and salt, add one ])int of oysters and liquid, stir very 
lightly, dry the turkey thoroughly, put dressing in with a 
spoon so as not to get it pressed tightly together, cook until 
you can stick a fork in easily. This is lovely.— Miss L. Taylor. 

Jellied Chicken 

Boil until tender in enough water to cover one chicken, 
remove when done and let water boil down to one quart, cut 
the meat in small pieces; to water add three-quarters box of 
gelatine, soaked, one tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, and salt 
and pepper to taste; slice one hard boiled egg and add to the 
chicken, pour over it the strained liquor, mix well and put in 
square molds, set in cool nlnoo to linrrlfn a/Ti-o r^-u^ n,,]-^„ 



U. Y. I'. U. COOK BOOK. 



31 



Beef Fritters 



One ponnil cold roast bed', six tablfspooiiH Hour, 
one teacup of water, two ounces of butter, whites of two e^Ks 
pepper and salt to taste; chop the beef fine and add the sea- 
soning', make a smooth batter with the flour and water stir 
in the melted butter, the whites of the eR^s beaten stiff ' then 
tile meat, stir all well together, have some beef dripping hot 
in a pan, and fry the fritters a nice brown.— C. E. P. 

Meat Breakfast Dish 

Take bits of cold lean meat of any kind, chop very tine 
with an e(|ual quantity of bread crumbs and a small onion 
moisten with gravy, mix well together, and make into thin 
flat cakes, spread a layer of mashed jjotutoes on each side of 
the cakes, place in a drippinc; pan, with a lump of butter on 
each one, and put into the oven until brown.— P. E. C. 

Chicken or Lamb Souffle 

One pint of cold chopped meat, one tablespoon of butter, 
one pint of milk, one tablespoon chopjied parsley, half teaspoon 
salt, two dashes of pepper, one tablespoon flour, three eggs, 
half cup stale bread crumbs; put the butter into a small sauce- 
pan, and when melted add the flour, mix until smooth, then 
add the milk, stir continually until it boils, add crumbs, cook 
one minute, take from the fire, add salt, pepper, parsley, 
chicken, and yokes of eggs well beaten, beat the whites' of the 
eggs to a stiff- froth, and stir into the mixture carefully, pour 
into a buttered baking dish and bake half an hour —Mrs C 
E. Pratt. • • 

Boer Stew 

Take any left over pie es of cold meat, put a layer in 
sfiucepan, then a layer of ov-ons which have been previously 
fried, then a sprinkling of pepper and salt, now iiiiothei layer 
of cold meat, then pour on about one can of tomatoes, season 
again, and add any cold gravy you might li.- ve. and lastly 
pour on the fried onions, set on back of stove and let simmer, 
(not boil). A piece of raw steak added with cooked pieces 
adds to the flavor. Add some water if not enough liquid on 
tomatoes. This is a nice dinner dish, easilv prepared, for 
wash dav.— M. C. II. 




MMMM 



32 



]i. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



('■ 



Veal Loaf 

To £1 i)iut of cold veal finely minced add a pint of bread 
crumbs, two eggs well beaten, a wine glass full of milk, a 
little salt pork chopped very fine, salt, pepper and a pinch of 
thyme; bake in a buttered dish, and when cold turn out upon 
a plate; cold beef or lamb may be used.— Mrs. Aldrich. 

To Roast a Leg of Pork 

Take a sharp knife and score the skin across the narrow 
stripes (you may cross it again so as to form diamonds) and 
rub in some powdered sage, raise the skin at the knuckle and 
put in a stufliing of minced onion and sage, bread crumbs, 
pepper, salt, and beaten yoke of egg, fasten it down with a 
buttered string or skewers. You maj' make deep incisions in 
the meat of the large end of the leg, and stuff them also, 
pressing in the filling verj' hard. Rub a little swe-t oil all 
over the skin with a brush or a goose feather to make it 
crisp and of a handsome brown. A leg of pork will require 
from three to four hours to roast. Moisten it all the time by 
brushing it with sweet oil, or with fresh butter tied in a rag. 
To baste it with its own drippings will make the skin tough 
and hard. Skim the fat carefully from the gravy, which should 
be thickened with a little flour. A roast leg of pork should 
always be accompanied by applesauce, mashed potatoes, and 
mashed turnips. — Mrs. C. E. Pratt. 





%. 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



33 



tbe Urns Romes 
Of Canada*** 

We will ffive or mail to anyone 
interested, a sixty-paso book, wliioh 
contains a classifled list of purchas- 
ers of Mason & Risch Pianos. In it 
you will see the names of many of 
your friends and acquaintances. As 
one gentleman aptly observed, "It 
is n list of Happy Homes." 

mason $ Riscb 
Pianos 

Lead in all the essentials 

that go to malce up a high 

grade of Piano. 

rnason $ Riscb 

Piano €o., Cimitea 

3a KiMa ammer wbst, tohomto. 



money %m(i 



By BUYINQ 
YOUR. 



t 



Groceries 

Canned 
Goods 



AT THE 
NEW STORE 



Webb 4 %e\ 

^aii i$t. 9arrH ifcund. 



^ m^^f^^mmm^f^^^^mmmvvmmvw A 



o- 



rum 



%> 



JPogujar 3ewe[lry Store. 



i» it i# It « 

Is the place to bu\- your wants in Watches, 

X Ladies and Gentlemen's Rings. Latest 

X styles in Gem & Wedding Silver Novelties 

X 925/1000 fine, Meriden Britannia 

Watch X Co., Simpson, Hall and Miller 

Clock and x Co's Silverware— none better. 

Jewellry Repair- x Large range of Jewellry 

ing in all Branches. x and Clocks .... 

All work warranted. x 



J. A. MORROW 

MASONIC BLOCK, SEQUIN ST., RARRY SOUND. 



TiiUUt 






ft" 

I 



.r^^ 1:1:1 



34 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



r 



» »»»:»»»» » »! » »»»»» » »»»»»»» »»»»»» »» »»»»»» »» ' 



i! Best Hbvertteino flDebium 







.THB^ 








Circulation far exceeds that of any other 
paper in the district. 



l00ueO Cbucedas. 



mtite foe "Rates. 




IKlortb 

Star 



w 






* » 



Iparri? Soun& 



©ntario. 



All kinds of plain and colored printing done 
in artistic style, Bill Heads, Letter Heads, 
Note Headb, Statements, Envelopes. Wed- 
ding Cards, Business Cards, Phamplets. 
Illustrated Catalogue and Souvenir Printing 
our specialty. Estimates nveu on all classes 
of work 



®uc priced please. 



®ut lllllocft is attistic. 



ITrclanb Si Bunb^ 



iftrniiri^tora. 






.^ 



Salabs 



"Do not too much for your stomach, or it will abandon 
3'ou." — Selected. 

Lobster Salad 

Half a cup vinegar, teaspoon salt, teaspoon mustard, a 
sprinkle of red pepper, two eggs, beat all together, cook in 
double boiler, then when cool serve with salad oil or melted 
butter. Many like to use just good sweet milk. Pick the 
lobster to pieces, break up fine, set on ice if the weather is 
warm. Do not pour the dressing on the lob'ster until just 
before using.— Miss L. Taylor. 

Salad Dressing 

One cup vinegar, two tablespoonfuls flour, one tablespoon 
butter, one egg, one teaspoon salt, three teaspoons mustard, 
half teaspoon pepper; beat all together, and stir while cooking. 
When cooked and cooled add one cup cream or rich milk, and 
beat thoroughly.— Mrs. E. A. Govier. 

Qood Veal or Chicken Salad 

Take as much veal as you care to use, cook very tender, 
when cold chop in small pieces, and to this add one large 
stick of celery chopped fine, one dozen olives quartered and the 
stones taken out, use a good salad dressing and put over all, 
mix well, and when ready to serve mix through all one cup 
of whipped cream.— Mrs. A. F. Cobb. 

Tomato Salad 

One onion, one heart of celery, half a green pepper, half 
a cucumber chopped fine, take centre out of six medium sized 
tomatoes, pour a little vinegar and salt over ve},^tables, place 
tomatoes each on r InTce 



and serve.— Miss Vankoughnett. 






iji^n till wiLii vcj^ctauxcs 






."■."iUiSSI^f'yii 



36 



B. V. r. U. COOK BOOK. 



ii 



m ill 



Beet Salad 

One quart row cabbage chopped fine, one quart of boiled 
leeks chopped fine, two cups sugar, one tablespoon salt, one 
teaspoon black pepper, one teacup grated horseradish, quarter 
teaspoon red pepper, cover with cold vinegar, and keep from 
the air.— Mrs. McClelland. 

Veal Salad 

Three pounds of veal boiled until tender, when cold chop. 
For the dressing use one cup vinegar and sugar, yolks of two 
eggs, small spoon of flour, half a spoon each of mustard, salt, 
pepper, and celery sals, one tablespoon butter; put butter and 
vinegar over the fire and let it come to a boiling point, stir 
in other ingredients; use one cabbage chopped fine if desired.— 
Mrs. Flesher. 

Cold Potato Salad 

Slice cold potatoes very thin, add one onion chopped very 
fine, pour over dressing made as follows:— One teaspoon Keen's 
mustard, one teaspoon salt, one tablespoon sugar, six table- 
spoons vinegar, the yolks of three eggs beat well; add the 
beaten whites of the eggs, moisten the mustard with vinegar, 
stir all together, cook in a double boiler until thick, when 
cool thin with sweet cream or milk.— Miss L. Taylor. 

Potato Salad 

Boil four large potatoes, peel and mash smooth, mince 
two onions and add to potatoes, make a dressing of three 
hard boiled eggs, one small teacup of vinegar, one teaspoon 
black pepper, one dessertspoon each of celery seeds and salt, 
one teaspoon each of prepared mustard and melted butter, mix 
well with potatoes, and garnish with slices of egg and celery, 
or lettuce, or chop cold boiled potatoes fine with enough raw 
onion to season nicely, make a dressing of one cup boiled 
sweet milk, one small teacup vinegar, one tablespoon butter, 
two well beaten eggs, one tablespoon white sugar, salt and 
pepper to taste, heat milk and vinegar in separate vessels; 
when vinegar boils, put in butter, sugar and seasoning, boil 
up once and pour over potatoes. To hot milk add eggs, cook 
one moment after they begin to thicken, pour over salad, stir 
quickly, cover and set to cool.— Miss Gillespie. 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



37 



Chicken Salad 

Tfike tlie chicken oft' the bones, cut into dice-like pieces, 
wash a head of celery and cut it into dice-like pieces, mix with 
the chicken, pour over it mayonnaise dressing, garnish with 
olives and cold boiled eggs and serve.— Miss Buchanan. 

Mayonnaise Dressing: 

Beat a raw egg with half a teaspoon of salt until 
smooth, add a teaspoon mixed mustard, half a pint of olive 
oil, rub smooth to a thick paste, add vinegar until the con- 
sistency of thick cream. This is nice on sliced tomatoes.— Miss 
M. E. Buchanan. 

Peacli Salad 

Procure four ripe peaches, peel and cut into quarters, put 
tiicm into a basin with two ounces of sugar and a glass of 
sherry, toss them lightly over, dress upon your dish and serve. 
Apricots, greengages and other plums are dressed in salads in 
the same manner, leaving the skins on.— Miss M. C. Harrison. 

Salmon Salad 

Heat three-quarter.s cup vinegar with quarter cup water 
and one spoon butter; to one well beaten egg add two small 
teaspoons mustard, two brown sugar, salt and pepper to 
taste, then jjour into the hot vinegar and boil till it thickens; 
use one bunch lettuce cut line to one can salmon, mix well 
and add the dressing when cold, garnish witli slices of hard 
boiled eggs, four eggs reiiuircd.— Miss Ethe! Armstrong. 
Salmon Salad, No. 2. 

Take one can of sjdmon and the white part of a large 
bunch of celery, chop fine and mix with mayonnaise dressing.— 
Miss Buchanan. 

Salm(jn' Salad, No. 3. 

Open the can and drain oft^ the oil, fill the can with 
vinegar and set in a pan of boiling water, to remain one 
hour, then set in a cool place. Dressing— To one can salmon 
beat two eggs, pour over them one half teacup boiling vine- 
gar and set on the fire until it thickens, add a teaspoonful of 
butter, some mustard and cayenne pepper, set awav to cool. 
When ready for the table add five tablespoonfuls' of sweet 
cream and dress with lettuce.- Mrs. Hale. 



.:™:,iiaife«,. 



■•# 



38 



H. Y. V. U. COOK BOOK. 



r^ 



m 



Cabbage Salad 

Chop cabbage fine and pour on the following dressing:— 
One egg, a small i)ieec of butter, half a teaspoon of salt, half 
a cup milk or cream, one tablespoon mustard, pinch of red 
pepper, one tablespoon brown sugar, one cup vinegar, put all 
in a dish, set over fire and stir until thick.— Miss Johnston. 

Lettuce 5alad 

A large head of lettuce and half a dozen green onions, 
chop up fine, mix together half a cup vinegar, a little salt and 
pei)i)er, and a little sugar, then put into a dish and slice hard 
boiled eggs over it, then pour on your salad dressing if 
desired.— Mrs. F. Dowell. 

Fruit 5alad 

Half box gelatine, pour over it one pint of boiling water, 
juice of one lemon, two cups sugar, stir until gelatine is dis- 
solved, then strain through a cloth and cool; before it begins 
to thicken put in fruit, four oranges, four bananas, can pine- 
apple without the juice, pour into mold; any kind of fruit can 
be used.- Mrs. F. L. Walton. 

Cabbage Salad 

One small cabbage chopped fine, one tablespoon vinegar, 
half a cup good cream, a dessertspoon sugar.— Mrs. J. Daball. 

Salad Dressing 

One cup vinegar, two tablespoons flour, one tablespoon 
of butter, one egg, one and a half teaspoons salt, half table 
spoon black pepper, three teaspoons mustard, a pinch cayenne 
pepper, beat all together and stir while cooking. When cooked 
and cold add one cup cream, or rich milk, and beat thorough- 
ly.— Mrs. M. A. Converse. 

Salad Dressing, No. 2. 

One egg beaten, three tablespoons white sugar, a good 
shake of pepper, one teaspoon flour, one teaspoon mustard, one 
teaspoon salt, one large teaspoon butter, mix well together, 
then pour over this a good half cup hot vinegar, stir and 
pour back into granite pot, let come to a boil, bottle when 
cold; add two teaspoons sweet cream when using.— Mrs. John 
Purvis. 



4 



B. V. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



39 

Salad Dkessing, No. 3. 

Beat one egg with a teaspoon dry mustard, one teaspoon 
salt, one teaspoon white sugar, then pour m on; small cuZ 

1 Johnstor^' ''''"'' '"'"'^ "^' ^"^-^ -^ «f wa.nut.-Lrs. J. 
Salad Dressing, No. 4. 

hnlf J'''''' '""^ ''^^' 7'" ^"■'^*'-""' ^""^^ tablespoon brown sugar 

haJf teaspoon mustard, half teaspoon salt, n little pepper four 

ablespoons eream. two tablespoons vinegar, put all in 'a aucc 

Salad Dressing, No. 5. 

eneh !!e^,nef '' 'I' tablespoons melted butter, two teaspoons 
eaeh pepper, mustard, sugar and salt, one cup vinegar, boil all 
together hke eustard, pour into jars for use To be thinned 
with m,lk or cream when used.-Mrs. D. Beatty. 
Salad Dressing. No. (5. 

One pint vinegar, half cup sugar, one egg, lump of butter 

pepper.— Mrs. W. McGown. 
Salad Dressing. No. 7. 

«„n ^"^l "u f^"" '^^' "^'^^ ''^"' teaspoon mustard, one tea- 
vWte ::^ '^^'' *"7""'"' ^^^^''^ f'^PP-- ^'^^ tabiespoonf^L 
fuls ?nr f f ^ ""^ '"^'""' P'PP*^'" '-'"^ three tablespoon- 

fuls (or less ,f very strong) vinegar, and butter the size of an 
egg p ace m a bowl m a pot of boiling water, or over the 
teakettle, stir constantly until quite thick; let cool and add 
quarter cup rich milk or cream, and pour over lettuce 
or shredded cabbage; if bkcd add a small amount 
of onion to either cabbage or lettuce.-Mrs. R. W. George. 

Fruit Salad 

Two oranges, two bananas, three peaches, or anv other 
nice fruit. cut in dice-like pieces and pile on a dish and'squee-ze 

■ feranuK^ted sugar and two tablespoons of water, add two 
tablespoons sherry or fruit juice and pour over the fruit 
Garnish with sliced lemon or chrys.<..nthcmum leavc«.^Mrs' 
O Gorman. 



40 



l\. Y. r. U. COOK BOOK. 



r! 



1- 



I i 



h 







■ l 


■t 


^H' 


li 



Fish Salad 

Take any tirm cold fish, remove tlie skin, pick out the 
bones, and mince fine, add pepper, salt, French mustard, lemon 
juice and olive oil; you can substitute vinegar for lemo.i tice; 
mix well together; just before serving pour over a litth .Vor- 
eestersliire sauce. Use the dressing given for salmon tialad.— 
Mrs. Wallace Warner. 

Beet Salad 

Four large red beets boiled soft and chopped fine, four 
heads celery chopped, two hard boiled eggs, whites and yokes, 
a small tablespoon of mustard rubbed together to a cream, 
add half cup vinegar, one tablespoon of vinegar, a scant tea- 
cupful of cream, a little salt and pepper, mix all together and 
pour over salad. — Mrs. Overs. 

Tomato Salad 

Cut and peel ripe tomatoes in thin slices, or cut around 
from the stem and take out the seeds and fill with dressing, 
place on a bed of green; make the dressing of the yolk of four 
eggs boiled hard, rubbed to a paste with oil or melted butter, 
pepper, salt and mustard, the yoke of a raw egg beaten to a 
froth, add vinegar and a little sugar if liked.— Miss Haines. 

Tomato Salad, No. 2. 

To half a dozen tomatoes with the skins removed and 
the tomatoes sliced add the yolks of three hard boiled eggs, 
also one raw egg well beaten and mixed with a tablespoon 
of melted butter, a teaspoonful of sugar, with cayenne pepper 
and salt to suit the taste. When all these are mixed thorough- 
ly add half a small cup of vinegar.— Mrs. T. Haystead. 

Salad Dressing for Potato or Salmon 

Yolks of three eggs, half cup cream, half cup vinegar, two 
teaspoons brown sugar, salt, pepper and celery seed to taste, 
let this mixture boil thick like custard, and pour over potato 
or can of salmon.— Mrs. W. McGown. 

Cream Dressing for Cold Slaw 

Two tablespoons whipped cream, two of sugar and four 
of vinegar; beat well and pour over cabbage previously cut 
verv fine and seasoned with salt.— Mrs. R. F'awns. 



B. Y. P. U. COOK HOOK. 



41 



Cauliflower Salad 

Boil a cauliflower in salted water till tender but not 
overdone; when cold cut it up neatly in small sprigs, beat up 
together three tablespoons of oil and one of vinegar, with 
pepper and salt to taste, rub the dish slightlv with garlic 
arrange the pieces of cauliflower in it, strew soiiie capers over 
them and serve— Mrs. A. Thomas. 

5alad for Beets 

One raw egg well beaten, half a cup vinegar, half cup of 
mustard mixed in the vinegar, small piece of butter, mix all 
together and beat to a thick cream, add a little salt and 
pepper, chop the beet fine, put in a dish with dressing.-Mrs. 
Townsley. 

Potato Salad 

Slice cold boiled potatoes and cold boiled eggs in alter- 
nate layers, sprinkling each layer with salt and pepper; add 
dressing and let stand a few minutes before serving. Dressing 
for above-Take one half cup vinegar, when hot stir into it 
one teaspoonful sugar, half teaspoonful salt, half teaspoonful 
dry mustard, butter the size of a walnut, and one egg all 
beaten thoroughly together. When cold add to it a ' few 
spoonfuls of sweet cream. If you have not cream add sweet 
milk before taking from fire. Let it get verv cold before 
using.— Mrs. E. T. Henry. 

Lamb or Chicken 5alad 

One pint of cold boiled lamb or chicken, chopped in 
small pieces, one quart of chopped cabbage. For a dressing 
take one half pint vinegar, two tablespoonfuls sugar, one 
tablespoonful dry mustard, two eggs, a little salt and pepper, 
butter the size of an egg. Heat the ingredients (butter 
excepted) over boiling water, stir all the time to prevent 
curdling the eggs until thick, then add the butter, pour while 
hot over the meat, when cold stir in the cabbage.— Mrs. S. E. 
Green. 



42 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 




1 

t 



^ 

I 



To get the best results 
From recipes in this book 



BUY YOUR 



Spices 
Cream Tartar 








Essences 
Oils, etc., etc 



; 



FROM 



APPELBE &L COMPANY 

Family Remedies compounded with care. 
PURE DRUGS NO SUBSTITUTION 

Take mg AdvicG 

And when you are purchasing anything 
in the Clothing line 

Get the best for it Is trie Cheapest in the end 

WHITBY HAS THE CLOTH 
^^^WHITBY HAS THE EXPERIENCE 

And you can rest assured you will receive a well- 
made, perfect-fitting garment. 



J 

; 



A. J. WHITBY, Merchant Tailor J 



James Street, Parry Sound. 



I 



IMchled 



; 



J 



; 

; 
^ 



"Every hour you steal from digestion will be reclaimed 
by indigestion."— Oswald. 

t 

Suggestions 

Always use the best coffee sugar in making sweet 
pickles. 

Always use a graniteware or porcelain kettle in which 
to heat your vinegar. 

A little alum will make pickles firm and crisp. 

Crabapple Catsup 

Three pounds apples, one and three-quarter pounds gran- 
ulated sugar, one tablespoon cloves, one quart of vinegar, one 
tablespoon ground cloves, cinnamon, ginger, mustard, salt and 
mace. Scald fruit in vinegar, run through a collander, then 
mix all together and boil until as thick as jam.— Mrs. T. 
Massales. 

Crabapple Catsup, No. 2. 

Three pounds of crabapples boiled in one quart vinegar, 
strain through a wire sieve, add one and a half pounds sugar 
and one tablespoon each of cinnamon, mustard, pepper and 
ginger, a little cayenne pepper, boil fifteen minutes.— Miss 
Beatty. 

Piccalilli * 

Chop very fine one peck of cabbage, green tomatoes and 
onions, sprinkle with two cups salt and stand over night; in 
the morning drain off and let boil in vinegar half an hour, 
then add two cups mustard, two ti '^espoons turmeric and 
curfy-powder, one tablespoon black pepper, and let boil an- 
other half hour, then bottle.— Mrs. John Vigrass. 



44 



M. V. 1>. U. COOK HOOK. 



t ' 



If 



* 



Chow-chow 

Olio peck Kri't'ii tonialoos. two iIdzcii large ciiciiml)crs. five 
sUilks tflcry, three large heads cabbage, half peek onions, two 
eui)H horseradish, three pounds browti sugtir, two gidlons vin- 
egar, three ounces aurmerie, two of pepptrgrass seed, two 
ounees celery seed, two ounces allspice whole, two ounces 
mustard seed, one can of mustard, boil all well.— Mrs. John 
Mortatt. 

Chow-Chow, No. 2. 

Half bushel green tomatoes, one dozen onions, one dozen 
green peppers, all cho))ped fine, siirinkle with one pint of 
salt, let stand over night, drain ofl' brine, cover with good 
vinegar, take two jjounds sugar, two tablespoons cinnamon, 
one tablespoon allspice, one of cloves, one of pepper, half cup 
mustard; mix all the ingredients with a little cold vinegar, 
cook one hour and pour over chow-chow, then when it is 
cold add one pint horseradish grated; stir the ingredients into' 
the vinegar.— Mrs. U. Beatty. 
C how-Chow, No. 3. 

Four quarts tomatoes, four quarts cabbage, two quarts 
onions, two quarts pickkd cucumbers, all chopped; let stand 
over night, drain well, add two tablespoons ground spice, one 
tablespoon mustard, one tablespoon ginger, pepper and salt, 
two quarts vinegar.— Mrs. J. Harrison. 

Mu.<>tard Pickles 

One and a half dozen large cucumbers, one and a half doz. 
large onions, one quart vinegar, two tablespoons mustard, one 
tablespoon turmeric, one and a half teaspoons curry powder, 
one and a half teaspoons cayenne pepper, put all the powders 
into the vinegar, and scald and pour over the cucumbers and 
onions, which must be peeled and sliced very thin and allowed 
to stand over night in salt. In the morning pour off the 
salty water, and then pour over the hot vinegar lo which the 
powders have been added. Ready for use in a clay or two.— 
Mrs. Frank Halliday. 
Mustard Picklks, No. 2. 

Half cup mustard, one quart vinegar, half cup flour, one 
ounce turmeric, one ounce curry powder, sugar to suit taste, 
mix all together and boil until raw taste is off and t lien 
strain; calimus root about the size of a uut.— Mrs. Harper. 



7 



U. y. F. U. COOK HOOK. 



45 



Qreen Tomato Pickles 

Two pecks totnat(K's sliced, one peck onions sliced, one 
teacup ffUt over both, mix well and let it remain over ni^lit, 
j)our off liquor in tiie morning' and tlirt.w it away, take three 
(|uarts of vinegar, two pounds of sugar, two tahlespoonfuls 
each of cloves und cinnamon, ginger and mustard, and twelve 
green peppers chopped tine, boil two hours.— iMrs. II. F. 
Mc^uire. 

Okkkn Tomato Picki.ks, No. 2. 

One gallon green tomatoes chopped fine, one pint onions 
chopped line, one pint sugar, one tal)lespoon salt, one table- 
spoon black pepi)er, one tablespoon cloves, one tablespoon cin- 
namon, one tablespoon red pepper, some horseradish, one pint 
vinegar; chop tomatoes and onions and put layer about in 
your kettle, add some salt, let stand over night; in morning 
drain and chop all together, put in jars and seal up.— Mrs. 
David Johnston. 

Grekn Tomato Pickles, No. 3. 

Six ])ounds tomatoes, two pounds sugar, half an ounce of 
mixed whole spices, one pound onions, a cup of vinegar, boil 
about an hour and a half slowly; cut onions and tomatoes 
in slices, sprinkle with salt and let stand over night, then 
drain oft" water in the morning and cook.— Miss Sirr. 

Green Tomato Pickles, No. 4. 

Cut half a peck of green tomatoes and six onions into 
thin sl'es, let them remain in s L and water over night, then 
pour the brine and put them on to cook with four table- 

spooii.. sugar, four of mustard, two teaspoons ground cloves, 
two of cinnamon, one of cayenne pepper, and one of pickling 
spice; let chem simmti tor one hour.— Mrs. T. Haystead. 

Tomato Mustard 

One peck ripe tomatoes, half a pound sugar, half a pound 
salt, one large red pepper, three tablespoons black pepper, one 
ounce ginger, one ounce cinnamon, one ounce allspice, half .-in 
ounce cloves, half an ounce mace, a quarter pound mustaii, 
a few pieces garlick, and two onions; peel the tom:icoes ai > 
boil ;m hour with the red pepper and onions, then add all th ■ 
spices except the mustard and vinegar, which are added afte 
it has been boiled an hour.— Mrs. A. K. Hunter. 



4G 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



1 







'tl 




Tomato Catsup 

To one gallon of strained tomatoes add one ({uart of 
vinegar, one pound of brown sugar, half pound salt, two or 
three red peppers, one ounee of whole black pepper, one ouiice 
whole allspice, one ounce of whole cloves, two ounces of whole 
ginger bruised, quarter pound mustard mixed smooth with a 
little cold vinegar, add a little whole mace,, boil two hours, 
then strain and bottle.— Mrs. (Dr.) Appelbe. 

Tomato Catsup, No. 2. 

Four quarts strained tomatoes, three cups vinegar, two 
tablespoons salt, three teaspoons black pepper, two teaspoons 
mustard, two cups sugar, six small red peppers, boil until a 
little thick. — Mrs. F. Laurie. 

Tomato Catsup, No. 3. 

Twelve ripe tomatoes pared, two large peppers chopped 
fine, two cups of vinegar, one tablespoon salt, one cup of 
brown siigar, and one teaspoon each of the following :— Allspice, 
nutmeg, cloves and ginger. Boil all together.— Mrs. James 
Waddell. 

Pickled Onions 

Peel the onions until they are white, scald them in strong 
salt water, then take them out with a skimmer, use vinegar 
enough to cover them boiling hot, add mustard seed and 
w4iole pepper when cold, then bottle and seal.— Mrs. H. A. 
Johnston. 

Pickled Onions, No. 2. 

Make a brine of »alt and water that will carry an egg, 
boil it and pour over the onions, let them remain four hours, 
then bottle and cover with boiling vinegar without spices.- 
Mrs. (Pf.) Applebe. 

; Cliili Sauce 

Two red peppers and two onions chopped fine, twelve 
ripe tomatoes, skins taken off, one tablespoon salt, one of 
sugar, one teaspoon allspice, cloves, ginger and nutmeg, two 
cups vinegar. When the tomatoes, peppers and onions are 
thoroughly cooked add the spices and vinegar.— Miss F. S. 
Helgason. 



''.'' W . '- '.. 't g'.«f..i«! M l«ll . '.;j m!.". ^-»;». 



;w ^y f ^ '^Ua^uJL.' ' i\'l; 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



47 



Chili Sauce, No. 2. 

Peel and slice one gallon ripe tomatoes and one quart of 
onions, place m a granite pot, add one cup vinegar, tlo eups 
sugar, one tablespoon curry powder, one tablespoon Celery seed 
one teaspoon red pepper, half cup salt, boil two hours seal 
while hot.-Mrs. H. Armstrong. " ' 

Chili Sauce, No. 3. 

Thirty ripe tomatoes peeled and cut fine, ten large onions, 
chopped, seven green peppers, fifteen tablespoons white gugar 
seven cups of vinegar, five tablespoons salt, chop onions Ld 
peppers fine, and boil one and a half hours.-Mrs F. Laurie. 
Chili Sauce, No, 4. 

One peck of ripe tomatoes scalded and skinned, six des- 
sertspoons white sugar, six of salt, six large onions, three red 
peppers cut up, three cups vinegar, boil two hours, bottle and 
keep air tight.-Mrs. (Dr.) Applebe. 

Sweet Pickles 

One peck ripe tomatoes peeled, four pounds brown sugar 
one quart cider vinegar, one ounce cinnamon, half ounce cloves- 
tie the spice in a muslin bag, make a svrup of the sugar' 
vinegar and spices, then put in the tomatoes and boil, when 
cooked take out as whole as possible; boil the syrup three or 
four hours until thick, put tomatoes back, boil up once put 
into jars; when cold seal up.— Miss Haines. 

Sweet Pickles, No. 2. 

Three quarts cider vinegar, three pounds brown sugar 
three ounces cinnamon half ground and half whole, three 
ounces cloves half ground and half whole, to seven pounds 
ripe <:ucumbers; cut into pieces the required size, salted and 
left over night, drain. ofl^ all brine before pickling.-Mrs. [. A 
Johnston. 

Qrape Catsup • 

Wild grapes make delicious catsup and jelly. BoU grapes 
until soft, then press through a coarse sieve; to five pounds of 
grape pulp add three pounds sugar, one teaspoon cinnamon 
one teaspoon each of cloves, pepper and allspice, one grater'! 
nutmeg, one quart vinee-ar. hnil «1owlir „«t;i +^:-.i. ^ . 

■ ^•:- -••5-.. i.iivtv as tuiuaio 

catsup, then bottle.— Mrs. Kidd. 



• ' " ii 






! .I- 



\ m 



im 



48 



IJ. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



GRA.PE Catsup, No. 2. 

Stew five pounds grapes over a slow hre until sott, strain, 
then add one and a half pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, two 
tablespoons each of salt, cinnamon and allspice, one tablespoon 
red pepper and a few ground cloves, one teaspoon nutmeg, 
mix all together and let boil until -hick.-Mrs. Banks. 

Cold Chili Sauce X 
One iJeck of ripe tomatoes, six onions, half cup of horse- 
radish, half eup mustard seed, half cup salt, two green i^ppers, 
half cup sugar, one large head celery, chop all this as fine as 
possible together, pour small pint vinegar over it. keep m an 
open jar with a plate over it. stir every two or three days, 
keep in a cool place.-Mrs. D. Beatty. 

Red Currant Catsup 
Four pounds fully ripe red currants, half pound sugar, 
one teaspoon ground cinnamon, one teaspoon salt, one tea- 
spoon cloves, one teaspoon pepper, one quart vinegar, stew the 
currants and sugar until quite thick, then add the other in- 
gredients and bottle for use.-Mrs. D. Beatty. 
Pickled Lamb's Tongue 

Six tongues boiled slowly in one quart of water wkh 
salt until tender, skin and trim neatly, cut in half lengthwise, 
put in jar and pcur over them boiling hot vinegar m whv . 
you have put some cloves, white mustard seeds, pepper c( :^ 
or red pepper whole, cover well with vinegar, and will be 
ready for use in a couple of days.-Mrs. C. E. Pratt. 

Spiced Tomatoes 

Twenty ripe tomatoes scalded and peeled, two quarts of 
vinegar, eight pounds of sugar, four tablespoons each of cin- 
namon, cloves and allspice, boil until thick, stirring often.- 
Mrs. Greer. 

Tomato Sauce 

Pour liquid ofl' a t^-n of tomatoes, put in pot with small 
slices of onion, and cook slowly ten minutes, drain, put juice 
back on fire, thicken with butter worked with a teaspoon of 
cornstarch, add salt and pepper, serve hot around meat.— Mrs. 
Allard. 






B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



49 



be 



i 



French Mustard 

Grate an onion and cover it with vinegar, after it lias 
stood for one hour pour off the vinegar, add a little cayenne 
pepper and salt, and a spoonful of sugar and mustard, enough 
to thicken; mix and set on the stove and stir until it boils.— 
Mrs. Calverley. 

Mother's Favorite Pickle 

One quart chopped beets, (beets must be boiled), one 
quart raw cabbage chopped, one cup grated horseradish, half 
cup sugar, vinegar enough to make a soft mixture.— Mrs. C. 
W. Pickard. 

Red Cabbage 
Cut cabbage in slices, sprinkle with salt mixed with a 
little saltpetre, let it remain over night; in the morning drain, 
boil vinegar with a little alum to make pickle crisp, add 
whole black and white pepper and cloves, when cold pour 
over the cabbage.— Mrs. (Dr.) Appelbe. 

Dominion Sauce 
Two gallons green tomatoes sliced without peeling, twelve 
large onions also sliced, two quarts vinegar, one quart sugar, 
two tablespoonfuls salt, two tablespoonfuls ground mustard, 
two tablespoonfuls black pepper, ground, one tablespoonful all- 
spice, one tablespoonful cloves; mix all together and stew until 
tender, stirring often lest they should scorch; put in small 
glass jars.— Mrs. James Manson. 

Red Pickle 
Cover with vinegar one quart of cooked chopped beets, 
one quart of chopped cabbage; one cupful of grated horse- 
radish, two cupfuls of sugar, a tablespoon of salt, a teaspoon 
of black pepper, a quarter of a teaspoon of red pepper.-Mrs. 

Greer. 

Pickled Plums 

To seven pounds plums, four pounds sugar, two ounces 
cloves two ounces stick cinnamon, one quart vinegar, one tea- 
spoon mace; put first a layer of plums, then a layer of spices 
alternatelv, scald vinegar and sugar together and pour over 
plums, repeat three times, then scald all together; put m glass 
J.-irK and thcv are ready for use.— Mrs. Beatty. 



if 
1 



50 



B. Y. V. U. COOK BOOK. 




Ripe Cucumber PickK\, 

Peel cucumbers, scrape out seeds, cut in pieces. siM'ead on 
dishes, sprinkle with salt, let stand over night, then drain off 
the water, take one quart vinegar, three and a half pounds of 
brown sugar, half teaspoon red pepper, one tablespoon ground 
mace, one tablespoon ground cinnamon, drop cucumbers into 
this and boil until soft or clear; they will require to boil one 
hour; put into bottles and seal. This is sufficient for quite a 
quantity of cucumbers.— Mrs. (Dr.) .\ppelbe. 

Yorkshire Vegetable Relish 

Three heads green cabbage, two basketfuls green tomatoes, 
one dozen cucumbers, three or five hunches celery, three or five 
cups horseradish, five pounds brown sugar, two ounces each 
of tumeric, green pepper, celery seed, whole cloves, allspice and 
mustard seed, one can Keen's mustard, two gallons vinegar. 
Slice tomatoes and let stand over night, sprinkle salt over 
all and drain, chop cabbage and others all together very fine, 
and boil till tender, keep stirring so as not to burn, and stir 
in the tumeric before taking off the fire, leaving it until the 
last. When done dip out the vegetables and stir into the 
sauce two cups of flour so as to thicken, and then stir all 
together and put down in crocks or gems.— Mrs. Raymond. 
Sweet Apple Pickles 

Pare them carefully and leave whole. To one gallon of 
vinegar add six pounds of sugar, two ounces cinnamon, one 
ounce cloves, one ounce allspice, bring to a boil and put in a 
few at a time; when you can pierce them easily skim out, 
add more when all are done, pour the syrup over and cover. 
—Miss L. Johnston. 

Blackberry Pickles 

To four quarts blackberries take two quarts sugar and 
one pint vinegar, three teaspoons each of ground cinnamon 
and cloves, tie the spices in a cloth, boil all together one 
hour, then skim out the berries, boil the juice down about 
one-third, pour over the berries and keep in a closely covered 
jar.— Miss E. Lawrence. 



BBB" 



PtAVMNWI' 'fi^/'^WWKl-l'JI," !■•■ 






H. Y. P. U. COOK liOOK. 



51 



J.fi.J 




Insurance & 
Real Estate 
Agent . , . 



Fire 
Life 
Marine 
And Ocean 



International 
Accident 
Insurance 
$3.00 & $1.00 
Per Year. 



Rents and accounts collected. 
Money to loan. 

Office James St., Parry Sd. 



m. B. 1Ra^ 



Barrister 
Solicitor 
Conveyancer 
Notary 

Local Solicitor for the 
Reliance Loan and Savings 
Company, Toronto. 

Money to loan at lowest 
current rates on real estate. 

\gent for the American 
Surety Co. Assets $5,000,000. 

Jas. St., Parry Sound 




Are coveted decorations for the home, and 
they are not expensive. All orders carefully 
filled by 

miss m. €. Rarrisom.. 

CwcDer In OH ana Water Colors. 

BTUOIO OV«R BTAn OFFICm 




•i;' 



.11 



i 



1-' 



Mn 



52 



H. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



THIS STORE KEEPS FAITH WITH THE PEOPLE 
SO IT GROWS AND PROSPERS. 




E. J. Vincent & Company 



4. 
r 



. . . ARE THE ... 

Acknowledged I^eaders in The Buaineaa 
State ill Parry Sound. — — — ^ 

T' business principles commend themselves to all, and 

besid ,iving the best value that money can procure, they 
have ii strictly 



i^^^ 



Depanntemal Store 



Where all who purchase are made happy by feeling at the 
time and knowing in the future that they were- ■ rightly used 
and got good vahie. - 



IDcgetables 



"The purest food is fruit, next the cereals, then the 
vegetables. All pure poets have abstained almost entirely from 
animal food."— A. Bronson Alcott. 

Cream Potatoes 

Boil twelve large potatoes, when cold slice and cut in 
squares, put a layer in pudding dish and sprinkle with salt 
and pepper and little chips of butter. When the dish is filled 
in this order, have hot one pint sweet milk, blind two table- 
spoons flour and add to the milk, when boiled PO"^ ^^^r 
potatoes, put in the oven and brown.-Mrs. H. L. McQuire. 

Cream Potatoes, No. 2. , , . t. 

Cook as manv potatoes as you wish, when cooked mash, 
put one egg, a little cream, pepper and salt, beat till very 
cream-like, put in a dish, smooth the top, dot with butter, 
put in oven and brown.— Captain Wilson. 

Cream Potato s. No. 3. , j r 

Take as m ny raw potatoes as you wish, pare and slice 
verv fine in a hving pan, cover with water and boil till 
nearly done, then' drain, put over the fire again and nearly 
cover with milk, season with salt, pepper and a small piece of 
butter, let boil till the milk is nearly gone; be careful to not 
let them scorch. Very nice, indeed.-Mrs. A. F. Cobb. 

Potato Puffs 

Two cups cold mashed potatoes, three tablespoons melted 
butter beaten to a cream, add two well-be..teu eggs, one cup 
cream or milk, pour in a deep dish and bake in a quick oven. 



-Mis 



S. Hilkinson. 



■# 



54 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 




Potato Puffs, No. 2. 

Take cold roast meat (beef, veal or lamb), clear from the 
gristle, chop fine, season with pepper and salt, boil and mash 
some potatoes and make them into a paste with one or two 
eggs, roll out with a little flour, cut with a saucer, put your 
seasoned meat on one half, fold over like a puff, and fry a 
light brown.— Mrs. W. H. Bundy. 

Baked Tomatoes 

Cut in slices good fresh tomatoes, not too ripe, put a 
layer of them in a dish suitable for baking, then a layer of 
bread crumbs, salt, pepper and plenty of butter, i...ather layer 
of tomatoes, and so on until the dish is full. Bake one hour. 
Mrs. A. E. Govier. 

Baked Tomatoes, No. 2. 

Peel and core, lay in a baking dish, season with pepper, 
salt and pieces of butter, cover with bread crumbs, bake two 
hours and erve in the dish in which they were baked.— Miss 
Haines. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

Use one cup bread crumbs, a sprinkle of salt and pepper, 
a good teaspoon sugar, size of an egg of melted butter, a 
pinch of savory; cut the stem end out of the tomatoes, do not 
peel them until you are eating them; where the stem end is 
cut out fill with the bread crumbs, lay on a tin plate or frv- 
ingpan and cook until they look shrivelled up; put a little 
water in the pan to prevent scorching. These are very nice 
served while hot.— Miss L. Taylor. 

Creamed Cauliflower 

Boil in salt water, just enough to cook it, then put in a 
cup of milk or cream and a very little thickening, season with 
butter, pepper and salt.— Miss Ferguson. 

Stewed Carrots 

Cut the carrots either into dice or long narrow strips, 
boil forty minutes in water, adding salt just before they are 
done, when done drain, and pour over them cream sauce.— 
T. r T 



i W^a i WfJ Tjii^ Jli' i,:» n (i<ti ii. ia 



B. Y. 1'. U. COOK BOOK. 



55 



Potatoes on Half Shell 

Wash, scrub and bake four large potatoes, cut in halves 
lengthwise, being careful not to break the skins, scoop contents 
into a hot bowl, mash with a tablcspoonful of butter, two 
tablespoonfuls of hot cream, one tablcspoonful of chopped 
parsley half a tcaspoonful salt and half that amount of 
pepper ' add lastly the beaten whites of two eggs, heap the 
shells with this, put in the oven and brown. They are de- 
licious.— Mrs. Hoppins. 

Potato Balls 

One quart fresh mashed potatoes, one tablespoon of butter, 
the yokes of two eggs, pepper and salt to taste, beat together, 
roll in lengths of three inches, and fry in lard till brown.-Miss 
Vankoughnett. 

5tewed Tomatoes 

Boil till nearly dry in a little water; season with pepper, 
sa^t. sugar and plenty of butter.-Miss Haines. 

Browned Potatoes 
Let them boil until nearly done, and three-quarters of an 
hour before taking out a roast of meat put the potatoes m 
the dripping pan and baste with gravy from meat; when they 
are a delicate brown serve.— Mrs. Hale. 

Tomatoes and Rice 
Wash and carefully pick over one cup of rice, have on 
the range three pints of boiling water, and mto this drop 
little by little the rice, stirring all the time. When the last 
grain goes in remove the spoon, and do not use it again. 
See to it that the boiling continues steadily for twenty 
minutes, then try a grain of the rice; if it is hard boil a few 
minutes longer, if tender turn all the water off ^«d ^^^ J^^ 
saucepan at one side of the range so that the contents may 
dry When ready to serve shake the vessel hard and turn the 
rice into a hot dish; every grain should stand separate and 
white The tomato sauce, which should be poured over the 
rice just before it is sent to the table, may be prepared ae m 
the recipe for tomato toast. To some tastes this sauce is 
improved by adding to it a heaping tablcspoonful of grated 
cheese.— Mrs. Spencer. 



Jf;^ 'I 



'( 



66 



IJ. Y. r. U. COOK HOOK. 



!?« 



J 



,■' in 



Macaroni and Cheese 

One dozen stieks macfironi, break uj) in finger lengths, 
cook in hot watci until tender with a little salt, drain off. 
While your macaroni is cooking take a cup of milk and a 
tea.spoon of corn starch and a lumj) of butter, and cook until 
like custard, place your macaroni in a dish and pour over it 
your custard, then grate or rub between your fingers until 
fine a teacup of cheese and mix through the macaroni, 
put in oven and cook twenty minutes.— Mrs. Overs, Depot 
Harbor. 

Curried Chicken 

One fowl, jointed as for fricassee, one pint weak broth, 
put the jointed fowl in a dec]) pot and pour over it the cold 
broth, stew slowly until the -neat is tender. Ten minutes 
before taking it from the stove thicken with browned flour, 
add a lablespoonful of curry jjowder, wet with cold water and 
let it come to a gentle boil, lay the chicken on a hot dish 
and pour the gravy over it. A dish of boiled rice may be 
set on the table in front of the carver, and he puts a heaping 
spoonful of this on each plate, and upon the rice deposits the 
curried chicken. At each place may be set a fruit plate con- 
taining a cool banana, which is eaten as an accompaniment to 
the rice and curry. — Mrs. Spencer. 

Mcintosh Pie 

One pound fresh boiled beef, chopped fine and seasoned, 
one dozen medium sized potatoes boiled and mashed well; put 
a layer of potatoes in bottom of bake dish, then put in meat, 
then the rest of the potatoes, smooth on top and bake in 
oven for half an hour. — Mrs. C. Bovair. 

Potato Pancake 

Grate six raw potatoes, then add a teaspoon of salt, two 
eggs, two tablespoons cream and flour enough to make a 
batter, fry in lard. — Mrs. Michaelis. 

Tomato and Onion 

Take five pounds of onions to one basket of ripe toma- 
toes, one and a half cups vinegar, a little salt, half teaspoon- 
fiil of red and half teaspooti of black pepper, one tablespoon 
mixed spice. Boil good and bottle. — Mrs. Lawrence. 



OJJ« B ! B> tL* ' '.W" 



;:-;V&»iArft»'p» i '^-^ 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



57 



Ragout of Turnip 

Put three tablcspoonfuls of butter in a fryingpan. when 
hot add one quart sliced turnip, and one tablespoon minced 
onion, stir until the vegetables begin to brown, and then add 
two tablcspoonfuls of flour, one teaspoon sugar, one teaspoon 
salt and a dash of pepper, stir two minutes and add one cup- 
ful of milk or white stock, cover and let simmer fitteen 
minutes on the back of the stove, serve very hot.-Mrs. Ireland. 

Potato Dumplings 

Peel some potatoes and grate them into a basin of 
water let the pulp remain in the water for a couple of hours, 
drain it off and mix with it half its weight in flour, season 
with pepper and salt and chopped onions. If not motst add 
a little water. Roll into dumplings the size of apples, sprinkle 
well with flour and put into boiling water; when they rise to 
the top of the water they arc done.-Mrs. A. Townsley. 

Qolden Potatoes 

Pare and soak in cold water two hours, put over the 
fire in cold water with a little salt, boil till very near done 
drain, place in a dripping pan. rnb each potato over with fat 
and sprinkle with pepper and salt, place in upper oven until 
all are of a golden color. These are very nice, ind specially 
suited to old potatoes.— Mrs. Hoppins. 

Scalloped Tomatoes 
Slice six tomatoes, two cups bread crumbs, two table- 
spocms butter and grated onion, two teaspoons sugar, put a 
layer tomatcv-s in the bottom of dish, adding a little butter 
sugar, pepper and salt until all are used, then place bread 
crumbs on top, put in moderate oven, cook one hour.-Miss 
Vankoughnctt. 

Stuffed Peppers 

Six large green sweet peppers, cut stem end off a^d rc-- 
move all seeds, parboil for five minutes, take fineh- chopped 
chicken, two tablespo.ms butter, one cup bread crum , salt to 
taste, mix thoroughly together and fill peppers, placing stem 
end back in its place, put in a pan and pour a cup of stock 
ever them, cook till a delicate brown, bake in hot oven one 
hour. — r\iih> vauKou^;iiici.*4.. 



58 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



n 



stuffed Onions 

Peel aoiiif onions, parboil and drain them, then take out 
the inside, being careful to keep the onions whole, choj) up 
the inside of the onion, a little beet and a little fat bacon, 
add some bread crumbs, a sprig of i){irsley, a lemon ix-cl 
minced up, and a seasoning of pepper, salt and mace; beat it 
all up with a well-beaten egg into a paste, and stuflf the 
onions with it; put them into a drijiping pan with a very 
little hot water and simmer in the oven for one hour, basting 
often with melted butter, make a gravv by adding to that in 
the dripping the juice of half a lemon, a little cream or milk 
and some browned flour.— Mrs. Caini)bcll. 

Tomato Toast 

One can tomatoes stewed for ten mil ites, season with 
])cpper, salt and sugar and rubbed through a colander, half 
cup sweet milk, one teaspoonful of butter, six slices of toasted 
bread, crustless, odd a pinch of soda to the milk and heat to 
scalding in a farina kettU , stir in the butter, and when that 
is melted add the tomatoes, bring all to a boil and pour over 
the toast, which should c spread upon a hot platter or 
chafing dish, set in the oven for five minutes before serving. — 
Mrs. Spencer. 

Flaked Rice 

Flaked rice, served as a vegetable or with cream and 
sugar or any sauce, should be prepared by first lightly sprink- 
ling it with salt in the dish in which it is to be served, 
enough boiling water should then be poured slowly over it to 
reach every part, but it should not be stirred. After five 
minutes tip the dish and drain oflf the excess water. — Selected. 

Pea Fritters 

Drain the liquor from a can of peas and let them stand 
for twenty minutes in cold Scdted water, drain and cook tender 
in salted boiling water, rub through a colander, and while 
still hot stir in a teaspoonful of butter, season and set aside 
to cool; when cold add to them two beaten eggs and a cup- 
ful of milk, well worked in; add a tablespoonful of prepared 
flour, and fry as you would griddle-cakes on a soapstone 



rriddle.- Mrs. Partr 



UigC. 



>''^f^' ^¥ ^'l» ' 0* *" t SUiU ' M 



H. Y. ^\ U. COOK UOOK. 



69 



Potato Cakes With Ekks 

Uakc nice potatt.cs till pcrtcctly tender, pcv,. mash 
thoroughly, and to each pint allow the yokes of two cggn 
which have been boiled until mealy, then rubbed i)erfectly 
smooth through a fine wire sieve, and one half cup of rich 
niilk, add salt to taste, mix all together, form the potato mto 
small cake-, place them on buttered tins, and bro -n ten or 
fifteen minutes in the oven. -Mrs. A. F. Cob1> 

String Beans 

After draining the liquor fr>m a can of beans go over 
them carefully, cutting into inch lengths and .-emoving every 
bit of string,' pour over them enough salted boilmg water to 
cover them, and cook slowly until tender drain off the water, 
add a large spoonful of butter to the beans and servc.-Mra. 
Partridge. 

Scalloped Turnips 
Prepare and boil whole white turnips until nearly tender, 
■ut into thin slices, lay in an carthcrn pudding dish, pour over 
, ,em a white sauce sufficient to cover, make by cooking a 
tablespoon flour in a pint of milk, part cream if preferred 
until thick; season with salt, sprinkle the to], urhtly with 
grated bread crumbs and bake in a quick oven a.vtil a rich 
brown; place the baking dish on a clean plate and serve Rich 
mi'k or cream may be used instead of white sauce if preferred. 
-Mrs. A. F. Cobb. 

Creamed Parsnips 

Bake or steam the parsnips until tender, slice, and salt 
if desired, add a cup of thin sweet cream let them stew 
slowly until nearly dry, or r preferred just boil up once and 
gerve.— Mrs. K. C. Townsend. 

Asparagus With Eggs 

Boil a bunch of asparagus twenty minutes, cut off the 

tender tops and lay in a deep pie-plate, buttering, peppering 

and salting well, beat four eggs just enough to break up the 

yolks, add a tablespoon of melted butter, mth pepper and 

salt, and pour upon the asparagus. Bake eight minutes in a 

', _-.-„ _., L,„.. J«,mPdiatelv.-Mrs. K. C. Townsend. 
qniirk oven rm-.t — — 








60 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



Beet Hash 

Chop quite finely an equeil quantity of cold boiled or 
baked beets and boiled or baked potatoes, put into a shallow 
saucepan, add salt and sufficient hot cream to moisten. Toss 
frequently and cook until well heated throughout; serve hot.— 
Mrs. S. M. Y. 

Scalloped Egg Pla»i* 

Pare a fresh egg plant; if large divide in quarters, it 
small in half, and put to cook in boiling water. Cook until 
it can be easily pierced with a straw, and drain in a colander, 
turn into a hot dish and beat with a silver fork until finely 
broken. Measure the egg plant and add to it an equal 
quantity of grated bread crumbs, a little salt, and a table- 
spoonful of thick sweet cream. Lastly add one well beaten 
egg. Put in an earthen pudding dish, and brown in the oven 
until the egg is set and the whole is heated throughout, but 
not dry .--Mrs. Cobb. 

Qreen Corn, Boiled 

Throw the cars, when husked, into a kettle of boiling 
water, slightly salted, and boil thirty minutes. Serve in a 
napkin.— Mrs. M. J. C. 

Browned Sweet Potatoes 

Slice cold cooked sweet potatoes evenly, place on slightly 
oiled tins in a hot oven and brown.— Selected. 

Succotash 

This is made of green corn and lima beans, although you 
can substitute for the latter string or butter beans, have one- 
third more corn than beans. When the former has been cut 
from the cob and the beans shelled, put into boiling water 
enough to cover them, no more, and stew gently together 
until tender, perhaps one-half hour, stirring now and then; 
pour off nearly all the water and add a large cupful of milk; 
stew in this, watching to prevent burning, for an hour, then 
stir in a great lump of butter, a teaspoonful of flour, wet 
with cold milk, pepper and salt to taste, boil up once and 
pour into a deep vegetable dish. If you use string beans 
string and cut up into one-half inch lengths before cooking.— 
Mrs. Ferguson. 



M 



W^F". 



mm 



Bftaacyw- ,, , nm ■ -m^ 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



61 



Tomatoes Whole for Winter Use 

Fill a jar with ripe tomatoes, a few whole cloves, a littk 
sugar and cover with cold water and vinegar half and half, 
put a piece of flannel over jar well down in vinegar, then txe 
down with paper.— Mrs. Fenn. 

Scalloped Potatoes 
Peel raw potatoes, slice as thick as a fifty cent piece, 
leave in salt and water for an hour before using, butter an 
earthen dish, sprinkle nice bread crumbs in bottom, then ^a 
aTer of potatoes, etc.. until your dish is full, season with lots 
of butter, pepper and salt, pour a cup of sweet cream over 
the top, pufin oven, cook slowly four hours, uncover, .et on 
top grate to brown.— Mrs. Butt. 

Lyonnalse Potatoes 

Slice one quart cold boiled potatoes, fry a nice brown, one 

tablespoon of o .on chopped fine in three tablespoons butter. 

add to this one tablespoon chopped parsley -dthe potatoes 

- with salt and pepper; stir carefully so as not to break the 

potato until they arc a light brown; serve m a hot dish.- 

Mrs. Pratt. 

Scalloped Onion 

Boil a dozen large onions fifteen minutes, pour the water 
off and add more boiling water with salt; and boil three- 
nuarters of an hour more, not hard enough to break them. 
Make a cream 'sauce of two cupfuls milk, two teaspoons corn- 
^arch and salt to taste. Let the milk come to a boil, and 
stfr in the cornstarch dissolved in a little of the co d milk 
pTt the onions into a buttered baking dish with a lump of 
butter on each one, pour nearly all the sauce over them -ver 
wfth cracker crumbs, then add the rest of the sauce and bake 
slowly one hour.— Mrs. Pratt. 

Beet Salad 
Boil beets until tender, peel and cut fine. Dressing for 
same-Three eggs l^eaten very light, butter size of a walnut, 
sfx^bles^onfuls of vinegar, one tablespoonful of sugar, one 
aspoon^ mustard, one teaspoon salt, half teaspoon pepper 
dash of cayenne pepper, one teaspoon of cornsta^h, boil and 
cool bclore using, vuiu ^f... — 



«' 



■J' 



u 



( 




f' 


■ 




'? - 




h 



I 




62 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



Macaroni (Italian Style) 

One pound macaroni, break in small pieces, cover with 
boiling water and cook for twenty minutes. In a separate 
saucenan cut one pound of beef steak into dice, add one table- 
spoon of butter and one onion chopped fine, cover tightly and 
stew twenty minutes, grate quarter pound cheese and add to 
the macaroni; to the meat add one can of tomatoes, then the 
macaroni, etc., stir together and serve hot. Half the quanti- 
ties for a small family.— Mrs. W. Taylor. 




...TKaben i?ou want tbe best... 

ic Fruits, Eggs aiiil lotter 



.CALL ON. 



David H. and Frank Hanman 

PARRY SOUND DOCK. 

Grain, Flour, Mill Stuff, etc., alwavs in stock and sold at 
lowest prices. 



NATURB'S CURE 

WE GUARANTEE NATURE'S CURE 

To completely cure Rheumatism. Kidiiey Disorders. Liver ComDlaint 
Sicli an.l NorvouB Headache. Neuralgia. Fever and AKue Dvsnensfa' 
Scrofula Malar a. Female Complaints. Nervous Affections Ervs^Sefas' 
^\?"iV^ Trouble. Constipation. Biliousness. IndiKestion. CatariE and 
all other diseases arising from impure blood, if taken acoordine to 
directions. ,r la thm ammAT blooo i-um,F,mm or' thk Aom ft in 
composed of roots, herbs and barks. No mercury Put up i^ powder 
orm. also in pills. Manufactured by the National Drue Co wl«h 
ington. D.C, n«i^d the VOLUNTARY TESTIMONIAL^' ^hf}\ 
can be had on application. » «=or/<OTOIVI^I,S. which 

'^'*'"c^^Mn?i«°Y„^ef."'°''*"''^^*'*'°'**'^ *«*''** ***!•''<' P" »>" ^hi«"« 
NATURE'S CURK is put up in dry form and will mix readily in cold 
Z!tt"J'' "*"'? ^"'i contains a graduated dose glass and two hund?ed 
(m>) doses of Nature's Cure for M.iH) We givSthe name ami postoffice 
ad.lresseu of the frion.ls of Nature's Cure who have sent in voluntarv 
testimony. You can write them for fur. her information. ^°'""**'V 
•i.oo fmm aoK smmr foar^Ai ,« mmomifr of /•mom. 

FOR SALt AT DWYERS' STORE 

earner oi James and Rosctu streets. 



■ M s s i st^ 



Entrees 



"Cooking is generally bad because people fall into routine; 
habit dulls their appreciation, and they do not think about 
what they arc eating."- Didsbury. 

Salted Almonds 

Place half an ounce of butter in an omelette pan, when 
it is melted add half a pound almondg nicely blanched, shake 
them about till they are slightly brown, then take them out, 
place on a piece of paper to drain and sprinkle salt over them, 
put the almonds at once into a cool place, keep them there 
until served.— Miss Haines. 

Banana Fritters 

One pint of flour, one teaspoon cream of tartar, one- 
half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon salt, two eggs whipped very 
light, two tablespoonfuls sugar, three-fourths cup of milk, rub 
through the flour a dessertspoon butter, beat all to a smooth 
light batter; slice each banana lengthwise into four strips, and 
dip each slice -^to the batter, frying a golden brown.— Miss 
M. C. Harris V Li. 

Salted Peanuts 

Take unroasted peanuts, pour hot water over them and 
let stand on the stove until they come to a boil; remove the 
skins, then place on a tin with a small piece of butter and 
let them remain in the oven until a light brown; remove and 
salt. Those already roasted can be used.— Mrs. Cobb. 

Fritters 

Three eggs, one cup of sweet milk, two teaspoons baking 
powder, a little salt and flour to niake a thin batter, beat 
well and drop in brsiling lard— Miss Annie Harrison. 



64 



w 

w 



n. Y. V. U. COOK BOOK. 



Magic Fritters 

Two tablcspooufuls powdered sugar, four ounces of line 
flour, two eggs, mix all together verv smoothly, and frv in 
lard.— L. A. P. 

Golden Buck * 

Two cups of dry cheese grated or cut very fine, quarter 
teaspoonful mustard, quarter teaspoonful salt, a little pepper, 
one cup milk, six squares of buttered toast, six poached eggs. 
Put the milk on to boil in a granite saucepan, add cheese, 
mustard, pepper and salt, stir continually until the cheese is 
melted, have the toast ready, jiour enough cheese over each 
piece to cover it, put a poached egg carefully on top of each 
piece; serve very hot.— E. L. Moore. 

Welsh Rare Bits 

Select richest and best American cheese, the milder the 
better, as melting brings out strength. To make five rare bits 
take one pound cheese, grate and put in tin or porcelain lined 
saucepan, add milk enough to thin the cheese sufficiently, place 
over fire, stir until melted. Have slice of toast ready for each 
rare bit, crusts trimmed, put a slice on each plate and pour 
cheese enough over each piece to cover it; serve while hot.— 
Airs. Aldrich. 

Orange Souffle 

Peel and slice six oranges, put in a high glass dish a 
layer of oranges, then one of sugar, and so on until all the 
oranges are used, and let stand two hours; make a soft boiled 
custard of the yokes of three eggs, one pint of milk, sugar to 
taste with grating of the orange peel for flavor, and pour 
over the oninges when cool enough not to break the dish, 
beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir in sugar, and 
put over the pudding. This will make your mouth water.— 
Mrs. F. C. King. 

Whipped Cream 

Mix one pint of cream with nine tablespoons of fine 
sugar and one gill of wine in a large bowl, whip these with 
a cream dasher, and as the froth rises skim into the dish in 
which it is to be served; fill the dish full to the top and 
orn.amcut with kisses or m.ic.'ironns.— Mrs, J. Tuck. 



; ;<l^ay5MJijgtoj l |^! »i 




B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



Chiting Sauce 

Twelve large ripe tomatoes, ten large sour apples, stew 
together and put through a colander, then add nine large 
onions chopped fine, quarter pound mustard, quarter pound 
ginger, one pound white sugar, half an ounce turmeric, one 
teaspoon cayenne pepper, half cup salt, three pints of vinegar, 
put all together and boil until it begins to thicken.— Mrs. A, 
N. Fenn. 

Macaroni Cheese 

One cup macaroni, one cup grated cheese, boil macaroni 
twenty-iive minutes, (put macaroni on in hot water), one 
laver macaroni, one of cheese; to each layer put butter, pepper 
and salt, then put enough milk to make it quite damp, then 
bake it in a moderate oven until it is nicely brown.-Mrs. 
John Harrod. 

Soup Dumplings 

One teaspoonful of baking powder to each cup of flour, a 
little salt, and milk enough to make a soft paste, drop from 
a spoon. Do not mix with the hands.— Mrs. Dwyer. 
Sliced Apples for Breakfast 

Pare and slice several apples, put them into a baking 
dish, cover with cream, bake for twenty minutes. Another 
way is to cover them with well cooked oatmeal, and bake 
fifteen minutes. Serve with milk.-Mrs. R. Fawns. 

Apple Float 

One pint stewed well mashed apples, whites of three eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, four large tablespoons- sugar, add a 
spoonful of apples and sugar alternately to beaten eggs, and 
beat all till it will stand up perfectly stiff. Serve this on a 
custard made of the vokes of the eggs, one pint mdk, two 
tablespoons of sugar, and flavor with vanilla.-Mrs. C. Bovair. 

Delightful Hash 

Half dozen oranges, half dozen bananas, one can pine- 
apple, one pound white grapes cut with scissors, one lemon, 
shred and seed oranges, slice bananas fine, chop pineapple fine, 
^ squeeze lemon juice in the pineapple juice, mix all together and 
sweeten if needed. — Miss Kintmati. 






<^^ 


t 


■1 


' n 




f 


» 


^ 1 


> ^i 




• 


' 


' 1 




«",^i 




'1-. 



66 



H. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



Luncheon Dish 

Ten eggs hard boiled, ehoj) whites, grate 3'okes, one pint 
irilk sealding hot poured over two table-spoonfuls of butter 
ciiid two heaping tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed smooth to- 
gether, add whites and eook one minute. Have read}- rounds 
of toast buttered, heap the mixture on, using care not to let 
it cover the edges, put grated yokes on top, dust with pepper 
and serve garnished with ribboir of crisp bacon. — Mrs. Ireland. 

Neapoiitajt Cream 

One pint cream, three-' iuar',?r ounce gthitWic, half cup 
sugar, whijjped whites of twc' e,':;^gs, diss?>lve tht gelatine in a 
cup of water, divide in three, flavor one-tbirvj with vanilla, 
one-third with rose, and color pink, and one-third with choco- 
late. Pour brown layer in mould first, when cold pour in 
the jiiivk and lastly the white. — Mrs. O'Gorman. 

Dressing fcr Ca^^age or Littuce Salad 

Three eggs well Ijeatea, two teaspoons vnustard, one tea- 
spoon salt, two teaspoi'v^ sugn-, <|uaiter teaspoon cayenne 
pepper, f(uarter teaspoon i.>laek j^^pper, one teaspoon butter, 
thne-quarter cup vinegar. Boil all together until it thickens, 
whvn cold add cream until thin enough for use. — Mrs. A. N. 
Penn. 



nordbeimer Piano 



IMITATED 

BUT Mr T eauAuumo 



No matter what make of Piano you have thought of 
buying, see the Nordheimer Piano' and get prices and 
terms. You can judge if prices are low or not only by 
seeing and comparing. 

Write or call for special list of slightly used pianos— 
every one a bargain. 

The Nordheimer Piano & flusic Co., Limited 

15 KINQ STREET EAST, TORONTO. 



•Slo- 



•■ ^•^^t^t^t ^.^^t .^. ^ 



"iC^^^C^ ■^i^^^^^^.^^-^Ri^^* 



I 



Eg08 



•'Be gentle to the new. Uikl egg, for eggs are brittle 
things." 

Eggs should be kept in a cool, not eold, plaee, and 
handled earefully, as rough treatment may eause the mmghng 
of the yolk and white by rupturing the membrane wh:ch 
separates them, then the egg will spoil quickly. 

Braw regard Eggs 

Put five eggs into hot water and bring to a boil, and 
keep just below the boiling point for twenty minutes, throw 
fnto old water and quickly cool, remove the shells, separate 
the whites and yolks; if you have a vegetable press put each 
t rough separately, otherwise chop the white very fine and put 
the yolks through a sieve; toast five good sized pieces of 
br ad"^ trim off the crust and put on a heated P'^tter put a 
tablespoon of butter and one of flour mto a fau^epan mix 
add half a pint milk, stir until boiling, then add the chopped 

whites and a teaspoon salt and ^-^, P^PP^vT dU liS 
over the toast, sprinkle over the yolks carefully, dust lightly 
Tth salt and pepper and stand a moment in the oven; serve 
as hot as possible.— Miss Haines. 

Foaming Omelette 
Two .eggs, separating them, add two tablespoons milk 
cuarter teasfo^n salt and a pinch of pepper to the beaten 
o ks then idd the whites beaten very light, put a teaspoon 
orbutter in verv hot pan. cover fryingpan with a hot cover 
when t foams up and is nicely cooked on the ^o/tom take off 
cover and. put in oven until it dries nicely on top. then fold 
over once aiiu acrrt .-'»• — — ■ 



68 



H. Y. V. V. COOK BOOK. 



5 )] 



Omelette 

Soak lialf cup bread crumbs in one cup of milk, mix 
with four eggs beaten ligiit, a pineii of salt and a dash of 
pepiier, j)our in a hot fryingpan in which has been melted 
about a tablcsi)()OM of butter, and cool: slowly ten minutes, 
take out, fold together, and serve on a hot platter.— Mrs. J 
Caldcr. 

Omulettk, No. 2. 

Three eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, one des- 
sertspoon milk for each egg, a pinch of salt, put milk into 
•oiks and mix, add whites, have pan hot with a little butter 
on it, pour in the mixture, when done under put into oven a 
few minutes, fold user and serve at once— Mrs. Overs. 

Omelette, No. 3. 

To half a cupful of warm water add a tablcspoonful of 
cr£ickcr crumbs, salt and pepper to taste, and into this stir 
well the yokes of two eggs, have ready the whites of the two 
eggs beaten stiff with a little salt, fold the yokes into the 
whites and pour at once into a hot buttered pan; when done 
fold over and serve at once. Half a tcaspoonful of extract of 
beef melted into the water makes a delicious variation.— Mrs 
Cobb. 

Poached Eggs 

Set a saucepan of water on the fire, when boiling slip 
an egg, previously broken in a cup, into the water; when the 
white looks done enough slide an egg slice under the egg and 
lay it on toast and butter, or spinach; as soon as enough are 
done serve hot. If not fresh laid they will not poach well, 
and without breaking. Trim the ragged paits of the whites 
and make them look round.— Selected. 

Poor Man's Omelette 

> 

Two tablespoons flour, three eggs, well broken but not 
whipped, mix the flour smooth with a little milk, then add 
one and a half cupfuls flour, then stir in the eggs, pour 
into a hot fryingpan well oiled with butter and stir until well 
set; smooth over with spoon, and when set cut in pieces and 
turn, cook a light brown and serve hot.— Mrs. T. W. Quinn. 



^SMic."?!^" I' :, ";'J7,,;_,;-K,4*4Sl^ti*()%fc. 



U, Y. P. U. COOK «00K. 



69 



Savory Omelette 

Four eggs well beaten, one quart sweet milk, chop fine 
a small piece of ham, a little parsley, pepi>er and salt, butter 
a pan, pour all into it, put in oven until set, serve hot.-Mrs. 
H. CoUett. 

Splendid Omelette 

Six eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, half pint of 
milk, six teaspoonfuls of corn starch, one teaspoonful of bak- 
ing powder, and a little salt, add the whites beaten to a 
stiff froth last, cook in a little butter.-Mrs. C. E. Pratt. 

Dressed Eggs 

Boil eight eggs hard, and throw into cold water, when 
quite cold take off the shells, cut the eggs in half lengthwise 
from end to end and remove the yolks, put the yolks »"*» f- 
bowl, and with the back of a silver spoon rub smooth, add- 
ing as you do so a tablespoonful of chopped ham or chicken, 
one of butter, one of good salad dressing, a half teaspoonful 
of French mustard, pepper and salt to taste. When these m- 
gredients are blended to a paste, mould with the hands mto 
oblong balls which will fit into the halved whites. As the 
two sides are not to be put together again, the yolks may 
be mounded neatly instead of being smoothed off flat. Lay 
on a platter, garnish with a quantity of watercress, and serve 
very cold.— Mrs. Spencer. 

Baked Eggs 

Break eight eggs into a well buttered dish, put in salt, 
pepper and bits of butter, then three tablespoons of cream, 
set in oven and bake twenty minutes, serve at once.-Mrs. 
N. W. C. 

Deviled Eggs 

Boil the eggs hard, when cold cut them carefully in two, 
do not break the whites, and remove the yolk, add to the 
yolks a good sized lump of butter, salt, pepper, a pmch of 
mustard, and a little sweet cream, mix to a smooth paste 
now fill the whites and round them up well, garnish and 
serve.— Mrs, Cnhh. 



■* I < 



I t 




I 

I: 
'I 



w ^ 



■V', : 




70 



n. V. p. I'. COOK MOOK. 



Scrambled Eggs With Ham 

Put into a pan, butter, a Httk- popper, suit and u little 
milk; when hot drop in the eggs, an.l with a knife eut the 
eggs and sein)*^^ fro*" the bottom, add some cold ham chopped 
fine, and' when done serve in a hot dish.-Miss Ferguson. 

Eggs In Sunshine 
Take an earthenware dish which will stand heat and 
.Uo do to use in serving the eggs, oil it and break therein 
as many eggs as desired, sprinkle lightly with salt, and put 
into the oven for two or more minutes till the eggs are set, 
have ready some hot tomato sauce prepartu as for tomato 
toast, pour the sauce over them and serve.— S. C. S. 

Soft Omelette 

ikat together thoroughly one quart of milk and six eggs, 
season with salt, pour into a shallow earthen puilding dish 
and bake in the oven until well set.— S. C. S. 



-C. 9. SiH' 

'^eean dteamships 

And '!§ecrgian Zaii iS.iS. 

iJiekd Agent. 

Tire Insurance 

Massey-Herris Implements. 
Bain Waggons an leighs. 
McLaughlin, Oshawa, 

Carriages, iggies 

.' nd Cutters. 

j!t..!!t, Parry .i^^rbor. 



J. H. Knifton 



insurance 
Real £$ta!e 
ma V m 




PARRY SOUND. 



I Httlc 
ut the 
loppcd 



Bteab anb ffiune 



it and 
thcTcin 
id put 
re set, 
tomato 



X eggs, 
ig dish 



ton 



tate 
m% 



ogh 



ID. 



Robert Collycr once remarked: "One great reason why I 
never had a really sick day in mv life w; ?< that as a boy I 
lived on oatmeal and milk and I )wn sugar, jjotatoes and a 
bit of meat when I could get it, and hen oatmeal again." 

Rye Bread 

Tv. o cups rye flour, two eggs, three-quarter cup New 
Orleans molasses, three-quarter cup sour milk, small teaspoon 
soda and salt, steam two hours.— Mrs. II. A. Johnston. 

Brown Bread 

Four cups sifted Indian meal, two cups flour, one cup 
molasses, one teaspoon soda, a little salt, sweet milk enough 
to make a thin batter, steam three hours, then set in the 
oven to dry. — Miss Raj'. 

Bkown Bkeau, No. 2. 

One cup cornmeal, one cup white flour, two-thirds cup 
molasses, two-thirds teaspoon soda and a little salt. Directions 
—Water enough to make a medium batter, which will be en- 
ough to half fill two well greased pound baking powder cans, 
put on cowr, steam two hours, then set in the o\en one half 
hour.— Mrs. Wallace Warner. 

Boston Brown Bread 

Two cups sour milk, two cups Indian meal, one cup 
molasses, one cup rye flour, one and a half teaspoons of soda, 
sift with one-third cup white flour, one teaspoon salt, mix 
molasses and sour milk, tl a stir in meal and flour, pour into 
a buttered pan and steam for three hours, then set into oven 
and bake from 1 ntv i • hirty minutes.— Mrs. M. A. Converse. 



7'-' 



Itt ' 



{ 

•' i 

t ■ 



n 



<% 1 



a: t t 




15. V. r. »'• <-'<><>i^ nooK. 

Bread 



vessel, stir ..> cnuuKh . u « m.a K^^ ^^_^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^.^^, 

thrcc-.,uarUTs cu,. ot xc-ast mr t ^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^ 

while pn-parinK O-''^'- ^„ '";^,; / .^ ' , ,a„df«l of Halt. a,ul 

after putting your flour ui . »'" potatoes, toss all up 

,„„„ .,K. brca„ in .,„d m —,;'„,■»„ the T.rc hy 

",r"mc1,„.,r .u,.l fifteen n,mute».-Mr». Geor„e, 

""'"u'^lL time cook four potatoes in enonRl. »a.e,- to 
rlllTn the water, let it eool t,. l.loo.! lieat, dis- 
cover, "■"»«'" ■ ,X.^„,.„, water and pat into the pota- 
solve yeast cake n ["ke w 1 ^^^^^^ _,,j^ „ 

toes, let stand tdl msht, th"' »j! „';„" „U ,hen pnt in the 
, ,« of ^vater .n the een; H,""" ^ war™ place, before 
above sponge, let remaui iiu t, .^ 

„,i.i„g into n.ould m>. m a sma «P o^ ^f^^'warm water, 
dissolved .n warm water and two quart ^^^^^^ _ 

more flour will be necessary. This will maK 
Mrs. P. Dowell. 

"-"k!:;:- ttatoes, three .a^poons ^.J"-' --;,„•- 
rrrpiraf«;d=°::d^.r ^he/set ,n „. evenm. 
with ahout three <p.arls of water.-Mrs. gael,e«. 

Short Bread 
Half pound butter, quarter pound sugar, one pound flour, 
one egg.— L. Thompson. 



n. Y. I'. I'. COOK IJOOK. 



73 



Home-made Bread 



yeast. 

tWf) 

' ml) 
itoes, 



Tlif first esscntiuts Jirc good Mour ami «<><>'• 
Y.'ast— Take ciglil large potatoes, peel, and cover i 
(piarts of water, |)ut a handful of fresh (or less r i«: 
hojis tied up in a small bag and juit in with th- ,• 
boil all together for half an hour or less, then dr. u off the 
w iter, mash well and return the water they were cooked in 
w th the addition of hall a cup of sugar, half a cup salt, a 
tablespoonful ginger, boil together five minutes and let stand 
until cool or luke-warm, and add a yeast cake iireviously 
soaked, and set in a warm place to rise. A cupful of the 
above will make eight or ten large loaves of good bread.— 
Mrs. George. 

HoME-.MADK BrKAU, No. 2. 

Take your dish full of flour, and in the centre make a 
batter with one (|uart of water and half a cup of home-made 
yeast, let stand over mglit in a warm place, in the morning 
put in another cpiart of water and a handful of salt, mix into 
dough, let stand to rise and mix again and put into loaves, 
let rise again and bake in not too hot an oven for one hour. 
— Mrs. D. Gervis. 

Two Loaves Whole Wheat Bread 

Half a pint of home-made yeast, one cpuirt water, two 
tablcspoonfuls of molasses, two tablespoonfuls sugar, one table- 
sjioonful salt, stir all together, adtl enough whole wheat flour 
to make a dough, let rise, mix with whole wheat flour, very 
.soft, let rise again, put in tins and bake for one and a half 
hours.— Mrs. S. Purvis. 

Steamed Brown Bread 

One cup molasses, one cup sour milk, half cup tepid 
water, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon soda, one pint Graham^ 
flour, half pint white flour, half pint cornmeal, steam two' 
hours, bake twenty minutes.— Mrs. Dolittle. 
Steamed Graham Bread 

Two and a half cups .Graham flour, one cup wheat flour, 
two cups sweet milk, one-third cup molasses, one teaspoonful 
soda and a little salt, steam one hour and bake five or ten 
11 iniitr>s — Mrs. Ht'tiry. 




> ''Hi 



> ;[ 



74. 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



Pill 11^ 




White Bread 



Take one «.:ikc compressed yeast, put in one eup eold 
water and dissolve, now take two quarts warm water, put into 
it one large tablespoon of lard, half a eup of sugar and a 
handful of salt, mi:, all together well, and have ready a pan 
half full of flour, pour water into flour and make a soft 
batter, now put in yeast and mix well, then more flour to 
make into a sponge, put in a warm place and let rise, knead 
down again, and again let it rise, this time make into loaves, 
let rise again; and bake one hour in not too hot an oven. 
Sweet milk mav be used instead of water. The sponge can 
be mixed before breakfast, and the bread all baked by four 
o'clock if it has lieen kept in a warm place.— Mrs. Cobb. 

5oft ain«;er Bread 

One cup c£ich butter, molasses, sugar and sour milk, butter 
milk is the best, one tcaEpoon of soda dissolved in warm 
water, one tablespooiiful ginger, one tablespoonful cinnamon, 
two eggs, about live cups flour, enough to make it as thick 
as cup cake batter, perhaps a little thicker, work in four cups 
first and add very cautiously; stir butter, sugar, molasses and 
spice together to a light cream; set them on the range until 
slightly warm, beat the eggs light, add the milk to the warm 
mixture, then the eggs, the soda, and lastly the flour; beat 
very hard ten minutes and bak. in a loaf, or in small tins. 
Half pound raisins seeded and cut in half improves this excel- 
lent ginger bread.— A. Hanna. 

Qraham Bread 

Two-thirds eup sweetening, part sugar and part molasses, 
two and a half cuj)s of sour milk, or half a cup of sour cream 
and two of sour milk, two teaspoonfuls soda, one tea- 
spoonful salt, diree and two-third cups Graham flour, 
sifted, rise two hours, bake one hour.— Mrs. J. A. Johnston. 

Gkaiiam Bkeau, No. 2. 

One cup sour milk, one cup water, one teaspoonful salt, 
half cup brown sugar, one teaspoonful soda, one egg, flour 
enough to make a thick batter, bake one hour in slow oven. 

— Vt re Ivirlrl Jini1_ 



IJ. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



75 



Steamed Indian Loaf 

One cup flour, two cups corn meal, three-quarters cup of 
molasses or brown sugar, one pint milk, sour or sweet, a 
little salt, half teaspoon soda, steam two hours.— Mrs. Wallace 
Warner. 

Corn Bread 

Three cups sour milk, one cup flour, half cup sugar, small 
teaspoon soda, a little salt, cornmeal enough to make a 
batter.— Miss Campbell. 

Spanish Bun 

Two eggs, save white of one, butter size of an egg, one 
cup brown- sugar, half cup milk, half teaspoon each of cloves, 
cinnamon and grated orange peel, two teaspoons baking 
powder.— Mrs. Fitzgerald. 

Spanish Bun, No. 2. 

One cup brown sugar, one cup syrup, one cup butter, one 
cup sour milk, two and a half cups flour, three eggs, two 
teaspoons soda, one in the syrup and one in the milk, one 
teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon of cloves, one teaspoon of all- 
spice; half of this is enough for layer cake. Icing for above 
cake— One cup of brown sugar, three tablespoons milk, boil till 
it hairs and beat to a cream, flavoring.— Mrs. Harijcr. 

Qinger Bread 

Three cups flour, one tablespoon ground ginger, one table- 
spoon cloves, one teaspoon soda; beat together one cup butter, 
one cup suga.-, one cup sour cream, one cup molasses with a 
little of the flour, three eggs, whites and yolks beaten separ- 
ately, put in yolks first, adding more flour, then spices and 
the rest of the flour with the soda, the whites of the eggs to 
be put in last.— Mrs. Beatty. 

GiNGKK Brkau, No. 2. 

Two eggs, one cup molasses, half cup sugar, piece of 
butter the size of an egg, half cup buttermilk, one tablespoon 
ginger anc^ cloves mixed, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons 
cream tartar, flour to make a little stiffer than jelly cake, bake 
in slow oven.— Mrs. D. Johnston. 




t %!' 



^ ■ i 



\m 



76 



1!. V. I', r. COOK BOOK. 



GlNdHK HUKAI), No. :{. 

Half cup shortening, one eup nioljisscss, hall' cuj) sugar, 
small teaspoon snlt, one teaspoon socUi, one cup boiling water, 
two cups flour, one teaspoon of ginger, and other spices if 
desired. — Mrs. Cobb. 

OiNr.KK nRi;,\i), .No. 4. 

One cup of syrup, one cup of sugar, one cup of butter, 
three eggs, three cups flour, one cup of sour or buttermilk, one 
teaspoon soda, two teas|)oons cinnamon, two of ginger, one 
of cloves. — Mrs, Fitzgerald. 

lilNC.KK liKK.MJ, No. f). 

Two cups of dark syrup, one cu|) sour milk, two eggs, 
the size of an egg of butter, two teasjjoons of ginger, one 
teas])(H)n of sodn, enough flour to make a soft batter, bake 
three-(|uarters of an hour in not too hot an oven.— Mrs. J. 
Mortatt. 

Buns 

One cuj) home-made yeast, one egg. three-quarters euj) 
warm milk, one cup sugar, a little nutmeg, butter about size 
of an egg. flour enough to make a soft dough, let rise in a 
warm i)lace for (me hour, cut and bake in a good oven. — 
Ji'rs. John Vigrass. 

Bins. No. 2. 

Use bread sponge, one cup shortening, one cup of sugar, 
one cup currants or raisitis, let rise about an hour, mix again 
and form into buns and let rise, then bake.— Mrs. T. Home. 

Tough Biscuit 

Two (piarts Hour, small tcasjKion salt, tvio tcaspotms 
baking j)owder, a small half teas|)oon baking soda, sour milk 
enough t<» mix up soft, roll out and cut into squares and 
liMke in <piick oven.— Mrs. L. M»)ulton. 

Anotlier Qinger Bread (Very Nice) 

One CUJ) molasses, «ine cup sugar, two tablespoons mdtcd 
butter, one t,il)les|K)on ginger, jnit one teaspoon soda in a cup 
and till with boiling water, flour to make a little stiflxT than 
jelly cake, bake in slow oven.— Mrs. D. [ohnston. 



*»*.^*iM»i0s»mmm^,^... 



n. Y. r. u. COOK book. 



77 



r, one 
, ))ake 
,Irs. J. 



For Six Loaves 

Three small potatoes, pare and sliee in .M water, boil 
until soft, then add two quarts warm water, then flour en- 
ough to make a thin batter, one eup home-made hop yeast, 
one teaspocm of ginger, one tablespoonful of granulated sugar, 
one of salt, set away in warm plaec till early morning, when 
it should be quite light, now mix to a stiff sponge, let rise in 
a warm place; when light repeat directions for kneading, let 
rise, knead down again, let rise again and then form into 
loaves, put in tins, let rise and bake— Mrs.' T. Massales. 

Baptist Qinger Uread 

Three cups of flour, three eggs; three-cpiarters eup sugar, 
half cup lard, one cup of buttermilk, one cup of syru]), one 
teasi)oonful of soda, one tablespoonful gingef; mix ginger and 
soda with flour, eggs not beaten.— Mrs.' Kirkby. 

To Make Yeast 

Roil a handful of hops in a quart of water half an hour, 
drain ofl" the water, and while it is hot put it in a pint of 
flour, let cool a little, and while warm put in one yeast cake, 
cover from the air, and when making bread use one small cup 
for making half a dozen loaves.— Mrs. D. Gervis. 

Hop Yeast 

Four potatoes, two ((uarts water, saucerful of hops, haU' 
a cup sugar, one cup flour, boil the potatoes and hops until 
the potatoes are soft, then strain on the sugar and flour, let 
it cool Ijcforc putting in the yeast, a little salt.-Mrs. Fitz- 
gerald. 

Home-made Yeast 

One cup granulated sugar, one cup salt, one cup flour. 
«« boiled potatoes mashed; when the potatoes are cooked 
pour the water in which they were boiled over the abovt; m- 
grcdients, add enough boiling water to make two quarts: 
when l»ke-warm add ! wo dissolved yeast cakes, stir occasion- 
ally kt .taml lor twenty-four hours, then bottle and keep in 
a cool pU' ■^- *^«^'^ " P'"* "*^ ^'"'* >'^^*'"*^ '""*'*''* ^'^^ loavcs.- 
Mr*. 8- Purvis. 



>i 



78 



H. Y. I'. V. COOK BOOK. 




Yeast 

Six nice sized potatoes well boiled, mash well, one good 
handful ho])s boiled to one quart water, one teaeup brown 
sugar, one tablespoon ginger, one tablespoon salt, put the pota- 
toes, sugar, ginger and salt together, pour over them the boil- 
ing hop water, when eool put in one yeast eake. 

Bread 

Take one cupful home-made j'east, add half a cup warm 
water, half cup flour, let sponge; boil, mash and strain one 
dozen potatoes, add three quarts water, flour enough to make 
a stiff batter, whip well, add your sponge, let rise over night, 
add salt, one cfuart warm water, mix into a stiff dough, keep 
warm, when li^ht mix again, next time it rises put in pans 
and bake one hour. 

Spice Drops 

Two eggs well beacen, one cup brown si.gar, half cup 
blackstrap, half cup butter, half cup currants, one teaspoon 
cloves, one teasjjoon cinnamon, half teaspoon salt, one tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in half cup sour milk, mix flour to a 
stiff batter, drop on a buttered breadpan spoonfuls far enough 
apart so as to rise separate, bake in a hot oven. 

Soft Qinger Bread 

One cup molasses, one cu]) sugar, half cup butter, one 
cup sour milk, two teaspoons ginger, one teaspoon soda, one 
egg, flour enough to make drop from spoon readily, bake in 
slow oven from half to three-quarters of an hour.—Mrs. A. M. 
Currv. 





I 



-'*;• 



U. Y. I'. U. COOK BOOK. 



79 



^^m 




m 



EXPERIENCE HAS WON FAME FOR 



Miss F. Vancoughnett 



,7/tS 

m 

m 



m 



f 



A» AM mxf'mmr' 



Milliner 

And Dressmaker 



m 



EAST 
WARD 

PARRY 
SOUND 

Business has rapidly increased since the spring open- 
ing and our many lady customers have learned that 
Perfect Work at a reasonable price is what all get who 
deal with her. The stock of hats is now larger than ever. 

DRESSMAKING DON£L BEAUTIFULLY, 




C1»e 



Parry Sound 
l)0$pital 



mmAUTi^uuur miru*rmo o« 
jAMmm mrmmmr 



Parry %fmiA, Oat. 



JOHN R. STONE, B.A., M.B., - Medical Superintendent. 
ROBT. CROSBY, M.B., ■ Resident Physician and Surgeon. 
MISS PETERS, ^^dy Superintendent. 



Tickets of admittance, good any time during one year from 
date of purchase, including medical attendance, nursing, board etc. 
until recovered, for $5. The Hospital is thoroughly up-to-date in 
every particular. 



1/ ^ 
! 



U v'JIl 




80 



B. V. P. U. COOK HOOK. 







»»i 



Co Be a eood €ook 




It is necessary to have 
a good 



m0K 




T©VE 



ooo 



We 



have just 
you want. 



what 




Try one of these Grand Jewels. We also 

have a full line of Cooking Utensils. 

Call and inspect our stock. 




-«gfc,<:^<g^ 



C 3. mcGown $( Company 

Corner River m Bowes Streets. 



^^^^mwrn^^^^mmmmm^^^ 




IRolte anb flBuffins 



"The turnpike road to people's hearts I find lies through 
their mouth, or I mistake mankind."-Dr. Wolcott. 

Yeii5t Rolls 
At the last moulding of bread take enough for a small 
loaf, roll out and spread over it a beaten egg, two tablespoons 
granulated sugar, a scant half teacup of lard, mix well, add- 
ing a handful of flour, let rise, mold into rolls, let rise twenty 
or thirty minutes and bake.-Mrs. Purvis. 

Rolls 
Three eggs, two cups sugar, half cup butter, three cups 
milk, two-thirds dtp yeast, make a sponge of the eggs, sugar 
milk, flour and yeast, let rise over night. In Lhe mormng 
mix in the butter, and add with all as much flour as can be 
stirred in with a spoon, when light roll out. cut. fold over, 
and put in pans to .ise. After baking rub over with sugar 
and water, or the white of an egg.-Mrs. A. Thomas. 

Rolls. No. 2. , , 

One quart milk, boiled and let cool, two tablespoons 
sugar, two tablespoons butter, salt to suit taste, flour to 
make a batter, one Royal yeast cake. Set in mormng and 
this will be ready for tea at night. Roll <>"* like b,scmt cut 
with cake cutter, put a small lump of butter m the middle of 
each and fold over, let rise and bake.-Mrs. Gleason. 

^''''' One^'qimrter cup butter dissolved in a cup of boiled milk 
.>n WtV. cake of compressed yeast dissolved ,n cup of co^d 
w . i ard the white of an egg beaten to a froth one table- 
spoon of sugar, salt, mixed with four cups flour, let nse over 
4ht make inio rolls, let rise about half an hour and bake 
in a moderate oven twenty-five minutes.-Mrs. Ferguson. 






1^ VH^ 

• ■ >■ 




H'J 



l\. V. r. U. COOK BOOK. 



Cinnamon Rolls 

T.-ikc a jjood sized amount of bread douxli, put in half 
a cupful of while sugar, a half cu])ful of lard, and let rise 
li.ijrht. then roll out with the rolling pin to an inch in thick- 
ness, sjjread with butter, dust over with sugar, and cinnamon 
and roll up as you do a jelly roll, cut off pieces an inch in 
thickness and place in a warm buttered pan, set in a warm 
place for three hours, or until up to the top of the pan, and 
bake in a hot oven, (piickly brown, and then slow down the 
heat and bake for half an hour. They should be soft and 
spongy when done. — Mrs. (icorge. 

CiNNAMO.N KoM.s, No. 2. 

Take a i)ieee of your left over bread dough, spread it 
with butter, sprinkle with cinnamon, sprinkle lightly with cur- 
rants or not as you choose, cut in strijjs and twist any shape, 
then let them rise until light, then bake in a moderate oven. 
—Mrs. Falconer. 

Parker House Rolls 

One teacujiful of yeast, one tablespoon of sugar, a jjiecc 
of lard the size of an ii}:;}r, one pint of milk, flour enough to 
make a stiff batter, put the milk on the stove to scald with 
the lard in it, mix salt, sugar and yeast into the flour, add 
milk, being careful not to ])ut in too hot, knead thoroughly 
when mixed at night, and cmly slightly the next morning, roil 
out an iiieh thick and cut with a biscuit cutter, spread a little 
butter on each roll and lap together, let rise very light and 
bake in a (piiek oven.— Mrs. W. Ireland. 

Cinnamon Drops 

One egg, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, half cup butter, 
one cu;> water, two teaspoons cinnamon, one teaspoon soda, 
Ave cups iluur, bake in cujjs half full.— Mrs. Hale. 

Spanish Bun 

One cu]) butter, two cups brown sugar, five eggs, two 
whites for icing with brown sugar, one cup milk, one tea- 
spoon mixed spice, one tcasjmon cinnamon, three cups flour, 
two teaspoons baking jjowdcr.- Mrs. Ireland. 



n. Y. p. U. C(K)K MOOk. 



h:{ 



Whole Wheat Puffs 

Make a l)attcr by beating together until pedeetly smooth 
the yolk of one egg. one and a half cups of new or un- 
skimmed milk, and one pint of whole wheat flour. IMaee .the 
dish containing it directly upon iee, and leave for an hour or 
longer. The bread may be prepared and left on the ice over 
night if desired for breakfast. When ready to bake the puffs, 
whip the white of an egg to a stiff froth, and after vigor- 
ously beatitig the batter for ten minutes, stir in lightly the 
white of an egg, turn at once into heated irons and bake. If 
preferred one-third white flour and two-thirds sifted Grjiham 
flour nuiy be used in the place of the wheat berry flour.— Mrs. 
A. F. Cobb. 

Cream Qraham Rolls 

To one half cup cold cream ad<l one half cup of soft ice 
water, make into a dough with three cups of (iraham fl()ur, 
sprinkling it slowly with the hands, beating at the same time 
so as to incorporate as much air as possible, until the dough 
is too stiff to be stirred, then knead thoroughly, form into 
rolls and bake.— Mrs. M. A. 

Sticks 

Prepare and knead the dough the same as for rolls. 
When readv to form roll the dough much smaller, scarcely 
larger than one's little flnger, and cut into three or four incH 
lengths. Bake the same as roils for about twenty minutes.— 
Selected. 

Muffins 

One tablespoon sugar, one egg, one tablespoon melted 
butter, pinch of salt, three-quarter cup milk, one cup flour, 
one teaspoon baking powder.— Mrs. Brandy. 

MUKKINS, No. 2. 

One egg, one tablespoon sugar, one tablespoon melted 
butter, one cup tfiilk. half teaspoon salt, two teaspoons baking 
IKjwder, two cups flour. 

' Muffins, No. :?. 

Three tablespoons butter, half cup sugar, one egg, one 
cup sour milk or cream, one teaspoon salt, three cups flour, 
two teaspoons cream tartar, one teaspoon soda.-Mrs. Cryder- 
man. 



ijif ; ' 



84 



M. Y. l\ I. cook BOO! 




I < 



f 



./r P 



Mi'KKiNs, No. 4. 

Sift to)jethcr tlircc cupH Hour, t\v< ..-ispoDii Is cream 
tartar, mix with two cgK**. two tal)U'.><pu( uiuls sugar, i' rcc of 
melted butter, a little salt, one teaspoontul of soda dis>olved 
in two cups sweet milk, t. ike in gem tins.— Mrs. 1. E. Grecu. 

Muffins, No. 5. 

One egg one tablespoon of sugar, one of melted butter, 
one cup of milk, half teasjjoon of salt, two teaspoons baking 
powder, two « ups floti!. bake n t niiek oven.— Mrs. Cobb. 

MlKKINS, .\o. 6. 

Two cups Hour, two teasj)oon8 cream tartar, one of soda; 
mix with (me egg. one tablespoon of sugar, three of melted 
butter, a little salt and two viips of sweet milk, bake in gem 
pans.— Mrs. .\. Thomas. 

Corn Muffins 

Sift two cuj)s corn meal, ouf cup flour, two tensf^ions 
baking powder and one of salt aiul one-third cup sugar to- 
gether, add t)ne tablespoon lard or oottelcnc melted, and mix 
the whole with two and a half cups water or milk. An egg 
may be added, but is not necessary for lightness.- Mrs, ]. 
Hrown. 

COHN MtFI'I.NS, No. 2. 

One cup yellow corn meal, half cup whr flour, one 
tablespoon sugar, two teaspoons baking powder, one egg and 
half a cup of milk; bake in hot greased gem i uis, c.it hot.— 
Mrs. George Moore. 

Ham Muffins 

Make a ligln hatter of a pin: of flour, two leaspocms of 
baking jjowder, a scant cup of milk, one well-beaten egg, a 
little salt, and a h.ilf teaspoon of sugar, chop about a cup of 
cold boiled ham very fine and stir into this batter which, it 
will be seen, is slightly stifltr than that usually made for 
fritters. This mixture is baked in muffin tins for tifteen or 
twenty minutes, and is more wholesome than the greased fried 
fritters. — Mrs. J. Brown. 

Baiting Powder Biscuits 

One qnnrt flour, two teaspoons baking powder, butter 
size of an egg, rub butter, baking powder, flour and a pinch 
of salt together, mix with enough water to roll.— Mrs. Hall. 



i.irwiftww^^iSKi 




n. Y. I'. U. COOK MOOK. 



85 



Breakfast riuffins 

Two cups (iraliam Hour, two tuhlcspoonluls of tnolnsscs, 
a little Halt, one teaspoontul soda, two tcaspoonfuls creajn 
tartar, one e^g, < sweet milk, bake in a quiek oven for 

twenty minutes; <l l>ot with l)\itter.— MrH. MeNeil. 

uraham Huffins 

Two eups of (. ii.-iiu and one of white ti> .n, two table- 
spoons of molasses or one of sugar, one t<-a8poon of soda, 
two of cream tart.-ir, a little salt, mix with milk, or nse one 
egK ""•' '"'" ^^■'*^'' water.— Mrs. A. Thomas. 

Sweet Muffins 

Half cup sugar, butter the size of an egg melted with 
four tablespoons of warm water, two eggs, a little .salt, two 
teaspoons cream ti("tar, one of soda, one quart of flour, beat 
thoroughly, m muffin pans thirty minutes in a (|uick 

oven.— Mrs. omas. 

Qraham Qems 

If Graham flour cannot be procured take one cupful of 
shorts, one of bran and one of (lour, mix well; this makes 
Oraham flour. Take two cups of this flour and one cup 
white flour, mix this well, beat two tablespounfuls of brown 
sugar with half a cup shortening, or more if liked rich, then 
add one egg nell beaten, then one cupfid of buttermilk, half a 
teaspoon baking soda, then the flour, iiake in a quick oven 
to a rick brown, and serve hoL or eold.-Mrs. T. W. gumn. 

Favorite Muffins 

One cupful sweet milk, one egg, yoke and white beaten 
separate, one tablespoon white sugar, half teaspoon salt, one 
tablespoonful of baking powder, butter .m/.c of an egg, two 
cups floar. bake in muflin rings.— Mrs. T. Woods. 

Corn meal Clems 

One cup cornmc.'d, one cup flour, one cup brown sugar, 
one cgi three tcaspoonfuls baking powder, two tablespoons 
lard, salt to taste, milk enough to moi.stcn, bake in quick 
oveti. Sometimes 1 make all in one tin; mix it soft; they are 
s! icndid hot.— Mrs. J. H. 



MICROCOPY RESOLUTION TEST CHART 

(ANSI and ISC TEST CHART No, 2) 



1.0 



I.I 



lis "^ 
mil 1 9 

!r 191! 3.6 



1- . 



[2.5 
2.2 

ZO 
1.8 



1.25 



1.4 



1.6 



^ /APPLIED IM/IGE Inc 

^^ 165 J EosI Main ilreel 

r-= Rochester, New York 14609 USA 

■^= (?16) 4B2 - 0300 - Phone 

^= (716) 288 - 59B9 - Fa» 



86 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



Southern Corn Recipes 

Muffins— Beat one egg, add two cups sour milk, the 
thicker the better, one teasjjoon soda, pinch salt, one and a 
half cups sifted meal, stir until perfectly smooth. Have the 
greased muffins on the stove, smoking hot, pour the mixture, 
which should be thicker than pancake batter, into the tin, 
and bake in a hot oven till done. A few minutes time only 
will be required.— Mrs. Ireland. 



-^MHKK Mo IP©WELLo 



CO 



<♦-• 



BARRISTER, SOLI CITOR. 



NOTARY. ETC. 

Mesonic Blocl^, .. .. Seguin Street, 
PARRY SOUND, ONT. 



i r 



THE MANUFACTURE OF" 




....Fine Office Furniture 



IS A SPECIALTY 



WITH 



edgar €rockford** 

Gibson Strut, Parry Sovnd. 

Office Desks, Secretaries, 

Book Cases, Cupboard, 

Sideboards, Washstands, 

Made of the best wood. 

In beautiful styles. 

CALL AND SEE SAMPLES 
AND, GET QUOTATIONS. 



krW 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



87 



Jooo 



anr.Eireji d Lesid: 

\ Because it is always first-class. Our cakes are i 

' beautiful, and the assortment large. Pies of all kinds 






Wedding Cakes a Specialty. 



DOWVLL'S OLO 3TAMO. 



—C. C. RAYMOND. 

RAKRV SOUNO. 



J 

^ 
^ 



....The Parry Sound Planing Mill.... 

ORCRT NORTH ROSD. 

Gillespie & Greir, Proprietors. 

All kinds of office fixtures made from best ot material in anj- style 

desired. Fancy windows, doors, fences. All kinds of dry 

lumber kept in stock. Write for estimates on anj-^ 

class of work. 

CONTRACT WORK OUR SPECIALTY. 



i;SZZSiZSKEXZZZZS&BXZSXSX^X3SZZ2^SZ3^3SSZX2XZSiS^9 



Taney Stationery 
Blank Books « 
ana magazines^ 



CALL ON- 



George moore, 

T.O.O.T. tmm. Parry Soima. 
nmt eanadian express Co'y. 



i^i 



asfeiSSiEEib^ £a^^JS&ifcS£;*^*a*t'a*ii*f^^^'3i: 



- — ^ .^ ^ ■^ M mr . im . -^mtm L wi j m L miwtim j m s fom'myKf^JK ^ 



i^ ( V 



1 .11 ^ 



\-i' '■ 



88 



B. V. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



.mineral RlgM at Rome... 



The Hatfic Belle 

GOLD, COPPER, and 
NICKEL COMPANY, Of 

PARRY .SOUND, 

Limited. 

The authorized Capital Stock of the Company 
is $400,000, divided into 400,000 shares of the par 
value of $1.00 By the terms of the Charter of the 
Company all stock is fully paid up, non-assessable, 
and without personal liability. 



:', n Y 



Officers of the CdMpanyt 

President: 

John Valkntyne, Esq., Banker, Sunderland. 

Vice-President : 

David Baird, Dentist, Uxbridge, Ont. 

Sec'y-Treas. : 

U. S. Yerex, Esq., Sunderland. 

Directors : 

John Vallentyne, Banker, Sunderland: James B. 
Mitchell, Miner, Parry Sound; Ulyses S. Yerex, Esq., 
Sunderland ; D. Baird, Dentist, Uxbridge ; Walter Scott 
Summerfeldt, Miller, Sutton West; John Park, M.D., 
Saintheld; Chas. E.Jacks, Barrister, etc., Toronto. 

Solic'tors: 

Jackes & Jackes, Toronto. 



Four valuab; ^perties are owned by the Company 
viz:— The LafexCopp°r and Nickel Location; The Sheard 
Copper and Gold Location ; The Land Mica uo^axion, 
and the Beckett Gold, Silver and Platinum Location. 

WHITE worn fmospecrus to thb hbao off/cc 

JOHN VALLENTYNE. SuHOBiti-AND. 



m 



Cakes 



An hour of exercise to every pound of food.— Oswald. 

Some eat to live, they loudly cry ; 
But from the pace they swallow pie 
And other food promiscuously, 
One would infer they eat to die. 

—Selected. 

Clove Cake 

Two eggs, one and one half cups of sugar, half cup butter, 
one cup chopped raisins, one half cup sweet milk, two cups 
flour, one tablespoon cloves, one half teaspoon soda.— Mrs. H. 
A. Johnston. 

Clove Cake No. 2 

Two eggs, one and one half cups brown sugar, one cup 
butter, one cup chopped raisins, one cup sweet milk, two cups 
flour, one teaspoon ground cloves, one teaspoon soda.— Mrs. 
McVorran. 

Clove Cake No. 3 

Two eggs, one cup shortening, one tablespoon cloves, one 
cup sugar, one teaspoon soda, half cup sweet milk, two cups 
flour.— Mrs. Badger. 

Washington Cake 

Three eggs, one cup white sugar, butter the size of an 
egg, one tablespoonful sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder stirred into one heaping cup of sifted flour. Filling 
for cake— One large sour apple peeled and grated, juice and the 
grated rind of one lemon, one cup of white sugar, one egg, 
well beaten, mix all together and boil for three minutes; fill- 
ing to be usfd when cold, cake to be baked on layer tins.— 
Mrs. Geo. Tudhope. 



,1* i ' '. 



r^; .. 



Ml h< 






90 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



N( 



Washington Ca; 

One cup butter, half pound sugar, four eggs, whites and 
yolks beaten separately, two cups flour, two teaspoons baking 
ipowder, one small cup milk, half pound raisins, half pound 
currants.— Mrs. Beatty. 

Roll Jelly 

Four eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, two teaspoons 
baking powder; grease a paper, put in a dripping pan and put 
batter in and bake. Spread jelly on cake while it is hot and 
roll.— Mrs. Hall. 

Rol! Jelly Cake 

Three-quarters cup sugar, three quarters cup flour, three 
eggs, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream tarter.— Mrs. 
Cryderman. 

Johnnie Cake 

Two tablespoonfuls brown sugar, half cup (or more) of 
shortening; beat to a cream; add one egg well beaten, then 
one and one half cupfuls of buttermilk with half teaspoonful 
of baking soda, two cups cornmeal, one cup flour well mixed; 
mix this before beating the eggs, sugar and butter, turn into 
a well oiled pan and bake half an hour in a moderate oven to 
rich brown.— Mrs. T. W. Quinn. 

Johnnie Cake No. 2 

One cup corn meal, one of flour, one of sugar, one of sour 
cream, one half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon salt, two eggs 
not beaten.— Mrs. Worth. 

Johnnie Cake No. 3 

Two cups sour milk, a large tablespoon of butter, one 
egg, half cup sugar, one teaspbon salt, one teaspoon soda, one 
cup corn meal, two small cups white flour.— Mrs. A. F. Cobb. 

Chocolate Cake , 

y ** Custard Part— Eight tablespoons grated chocolate, five 
tablespoons brown sugar, half <:up milk, boil till thick and 
then set to cool. Cake Part— One good cup sugar, half cup 
butter beaten to a cream, three eggs broken into mixture^ one 
at a time and well stirred after each, one half cup flour, two 
teaspoons baking powder, then add chocolate and stir well, 
half cup milk, ^^nd flour to thicken.- Mrs. Daball. 



jv 



U. Y. I'. U. COOK BOOK. 



91 



Chocolate Cake, No. 2. 

Three eggs, two eups sugar, one light and one dark, 
butter size of an egg, cup sweet milk, three cups (lour, tea- 
spoon soda aud two of cream tartar, this makes three layers, 
for the centre one a teaspoon grated chocolate. For Filling- 
Quarter of cake of chocolate and one cup sugar, boil for five 
minutes, and then put in a teaspoon corn starch dissolved in 
water.— Mrs. H. Farrer. 

.0- 

/ Sliver and Qold Cake 

Whites of three eggs, beaten to froth, one cup sugar size 
of an egg of butter, '",e cup sweet milk, two teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, flour to ...ake a batter, flavor with lemon. GoUl 
Part— Yolks *bf three eggs, one cup of brown sugar, one cup 
of sweet milk-, size of an egg of butter, t\yo teaspoons baking 
powder, flour to, ma^e a batter, flavor with vanilla; grease^a 
paper, and putfin the bottom of a dripping pan and put one 
spoon of silver and gold alternately until finished; put in oven 

and bake.— Mrs. Hall. 

> 

Silver and Gold Cake No. 2 

Gold Part— Yolks of eight eggs, scant cup butter, two of 
sugar, four of flour, one of sour milk, teaspoon soda, table- 
spoon corn starch, flavor with lemon and vanilla. Silver 
Part— Two cups sugar, one of butter, four scant cups flour, 
one of sour milk, teaspoon soda, tablespoon cornstarch, whites 
of eight eggs, flavor with almond or peach, put in pan alter- 
nately one spoonful of gold and one of silver.— Mrs. T. Fortune 

Ice Cream Cake 

Whites of five eggs, one aad:# half cups sugar, half cupJS^^t 
butter, one cup of milk, half teaspoon soda, one teaspoonful ■. 
cream tartar, three cups flour, separate this mixture and color 
half with strawberry coloring, flavor this with vanilla and the 
whole with lemon, put in the vchite then the pink, bake 
. slowly.— Mrs. T. A. Clark. 

Ice Cream Cake, No. 2. 

One ctfp sugar, two tablespoons butter, one and a ha"" 
cups flour, half cup milk, two teaspoons baking powder, whites 
of three eggs. Yolk of egg, thickened with sugar and flavored 
with vanilla for icing.— Miss Kirkman. 




«r 



';^ji,^ '* 



92 



15. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



Layer Cake 

Half cup butter, three-quarters cup sugar, two eggs, half 
cup sweet milk, two cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder. 

Layer Cake, No. 2. 

Two cups sugar, half cup butter, one cup milk, three 
eggs, three cups flour, three teaspoons baking powder, one tea- 
spoon vanilla, bake about twenty minutes in a good oven.— 
Mrs. Greer. 

Layer Cake, No. 3. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one tablespoonful butter, two- 
thirds of a cup of milk, two cups of flour, flavor to taste, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder.— Mrs. Mills. 

Cornstarch Cake 

The whites of three eggs, one half cup cornstarch, half 
cup butter, half cup of milk, half teaspoonful of cream tartar, 
quarter teaspoonful soda, one cup sugar, one cup flour, flavor 
with lemon.— Mrs. C. E. Pratt. 

Cornstarch Cake, No. 2. 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, 
half cup of milk, one cup of flour, two-thirds cup cornstarch, 
one-third teaspoon soda, half teaspoonful cream tartar, flavor 
with lemon.— Mrs. Mi'ls. 

Cornstarch Cake. No. 3. 

One tablespoon butter, one cup sugar, half cup milk, two 
eggs, two-thirds cup cornstarch, one-third teaspoon soda, half 
teaspoon cream tartar, one cup flour, flavor with lemon, beat 
well.~L. Thompson. 

Hermits 

One cup granulated sugar, half cup butter, half cup raisins 
chopped, half teaspoon soda in two teaspoons warm water, 
one egg. flour to roll.— Mrs. Johnston. 

Hermits, No. 2. 

One cup sugar, half cup butter, two eggs, two teaspoons 
baking powder, two teaspoons cinnamon, allspice and nutmeg, 
ofie cup currants, two tablespoons milk, flour to roll out stiff". 
—Mrs. Crydermnn. 



H. V. 1'. U. COOK BOOK. 



93 



Tilden Cake 

Half cup butter, one cup sugar, two eggs, white of one 
saved for frosting, half cup of water, half cup cornstarch wet 
in water, two teaspoons baking powder and two cups flour. — 
Mrs. E. Willison. 

TiLDEN Cakk, No. 2. 

One cup butter, two cuj)s pulverized sugar, one cup sweet 
milk, three cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, two tea- 
spoons lemon extract. — Mrs. Maxwell. 

White Mountain Calce 

One cup sugar, half cup butter, half cup sweet milk, half 
cup cornstarch, one cup flour, whites of six eggs, a little 
vanilla, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, bake in layers. 
Frosting for above — Whites of five eggs, twenty tablespoonfuls 
sifted sugar, beaten very light, a little vanilla spread between 
hiyers and outside of cake. — Mrs. J. Newel. g 

White Mountain Cake, No. 2. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three and a half cups 
flour, one cup milk, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Stir all together without separating the eggs, bake the same 
as jelly cake and use frosting between, made of whites of three 
eggs and fine granulated sugar. — Tested by Mrs. Lewis. 

Lemon Jelly Calce 

Half cup butter, one and a half cups sugar, half cup 
milk, three eggs, two cups flour, one and a half teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, one lemon, half cup water. Directions — Cream 
the butter with one cup sugar, stirring in the beaten, whites 
of the eggs and the milk, then sifting in the flour in which 
the baking powder was mixed, and bake in jelly cake tins. 
To the beaten yolks of the eggs add the other half cup of 
sugar and the water and juice of the lemon, and boil till 
thick enough to spread between the layers. — Mrs. P. Harrison. 

Lemon Cake 

One half cup sugar, one teaspoon butter, one tablespoon 
milk, three eggs, one cup flour, one teaspoon baking powder, 
bake in jelly tins, put between two apples and one lemon 
grated together with a little si.igar.-^Mrs, R. F.Twns. 



U' 



94 



n. V. 1'. r. COOK hook. 



. .-« 



»'; 



;i?! 



i .i v-^ 



Lkmon Cake, No. 2. 

Whites of two cgKs well beaten, half cu]) sugar, two 
tablespoons butter, half eup eold water, one teasi)oon baking 
powder, flour to make a thin batter, bake. Yolks of two 
eggs, half eup sugar, juiee of one lemon, two teaspoons corn 
starch in half eup hot water, boil thick, put between your 
cake.— Mrs. D. Johnston. 

Lkmon Cake, No. 3. 

Five cents worth oil lemon, five cents worth of baking 

ammonia, two cups white sugar, two cups sweet milk, two 

eggs, one cup butter.— Mrs. Banks. 

Lemon Cake, No. 4. 

One and a half cups sugar, half cup butter, half cup 
milk, two cups flour two eggs, three-quarters teaspoon soda, 
juice and grated rind of one lemon mixed in.— Mrs. McLelland. 

Pancakes 

One pint milk, three eggs, one teaspoon of salt, mix to 
a very thin batter, drop in lard. To be eaten with fruit juice 
and sugar. — Mrs. S. L. 

Pancakes, No. 2. 

One cup and a half buttermilk, half teaspoon salt, half 
teaspoon soda, one egg, one tablespoon melted butter or lard, 
a tablespoon sugar, flour enough to make a thin batter. One 
tablespoon cornmeal improves them.— Mrs. A. F. Cobb. 

Jelly Cake 

Two cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, mix 
this well; beat to a cream one cup granulated sugar, one 
tablespoon of butter, add one egg beaten very light, beat this 
well, then add half a cup cold water, one teaspoonful lemon, 
then quickly add flour, beat well, bake in two jelly cake tins 
in a quick oven to a light brown, put together with jelly or 
cream filling.— Mrs. T. W. Quinn. ';^ 

Jislly Roll 

\ 
Four eggs, one scant cup sugar and one level cup flour, 

a teaspoon baking soda, beat well and bake in a wide pan, 

and then sprinkle a paper with granulated sugar and turn out 

onto it, spread on jelly, then roll. This is a delicious roll.— 

Mrs. Granger. 



Wf 



». Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



90 



Jelly Roll, No. 2. 

Three eggs, one eiip sugar, one cup flour, one teaspoon 
baking soda, one teaspoon cream tartar, one teaspoon lemon 
juice, wet the soda with a' little warm water, mix cream tar- 
tar with flour, spread with jelly and roll while hot.— Miss 
Ciillespie. 

Jelly Roll, No. 3. 

One cup sugar, four eggs, one cup flour, two teaspoons 
baking powder, baky in dripping pan, spread with jelly while 
hot and roll.— Mrs. J. Eagar. 

Fat Rascals 

Two quarts flour, half cup shortening, half cup currants, 
pinch of salt, three-quarters teaspoon soda, quarter cup sugar, 
one and one half cups sour milk; roll into biscuits, bake in a 
quick oven.— Mrs. T. Woods. 

Christmas Cake 

Tv«;o cups brown sugar, three-quarters pound of butter, 
five eggs, heaping saucer currants and raisins, one lemon peel, 
flour enough to make very stiff, one teaspoon soda, c*ie tea- 
spoon each of all kinds of spice.— Mrs. J. Johnston. 

Bread Cake 

• 

When you are moulding the bread to put into the pans, 
take one pint of dough, put into a bowl, add one cup sugar, 
quarter cup butter, and two eggs beaten well; beat this with 
a heavy wire beater until the mixture is smooth, and the dough 
has lost all its stringy condition ; add grated rine of lemon and 
pour in a shallow buttered pan; when light, sprinkle the top 
lightly with white sugar, dust over a little cinnamon, and 
sprinkle over chopped nuts or fruit; press lightly into the cake 
without spoiling its texture; bake in moderate oven for thirty 
minutes. The bread cake will answer for luncheon.— Mrs. A. 
M. Curry. 

Qraham Qems 

T>vo cups sour milk, half cup sugar, half teaspoon soda, 
Graham flour to stir thick; bake in cup or gem pans in hot 
oven; both light and healthy.— Mrs. T. Woods. 



u 



r t 









1 1 ; y 




": 'iif ,4 



,1' Is.) : 



'"I 



u 



I ! » 



06 



H. Y. I'. M. COOK HOOK. 




Cream Sponge Cake 

Beat together a eiiptul of sugar and the yolks of three 
eggs; add a half tcaspoouful of soda, a teaspoon of eream 
tartar, a cupful of flour and the whites of the eggs. Hake ui 
three layers and put between them the following: One egg. ft 
half eupful of eream. a eupful of sugar an.l a pieee of butter 
the size of a walnut ; boil till like a cream and then tlavo.- to 
taste.— Mrs. J. Johnston. 

Feather Cake 

One cup sugar, one tablespoon butter, one egg. half cup 
sweet milk, two cups flour, two teaspoons powder. Bake in 
two layers and put together the following icing: one cup sugar 
one cup of water, one tablespoonful corn starch, yolks of two 
eggs, juice and grated rind of two lemons, cook all together 
imtil it thickens, cools, spread it on layers of the cake.-Mrs. 
Calverley. 

Fruit Cake 

One pound of sugar, one pound butter, one pound flour, 
one and one half pounds vSultana raisins, one and one half 
pounds currants, half a pound citrons, one pound almonds, 
blanched and chopped fine, eight eggs, one cup milk, spice to 
taste, beat your butter to a cream, then add the sugar, beat 
the whites and volks of eggs separately, mix all well together, 
mix the fruit in flour, and add them when all is well mixed; 
tie three sheets of paper around the tin that the cake may not 
bum, butter the tin well, pour in the mixture, bake four hours 
in a slow oven.— Mrs. J. H. 

A No. I Cake 

One cupful of cooking molasses, stir into it two cupfuls 
of flour, put a spoonful of soda in a cup and fill with hot 
water, stir into it the mixture with the yolks of two eggs 
and a tablespoonful of shortening, add a spoonful of ginger 
and some spices and beat well together, bake in three jelly 
tins; boil half cup sugar with two tablespoons water and 
pour over the beaten white of the egg. flavor and spread be- 
tween the layers and on the top. This is a delicious cake.- 
Mrs. F. C. King. 



U. Y. I'. U. COOK BOOK. 



97 



A Very Oood Common Cake 

Rub eight ounccH of huttcr into two pouiuls of dry flour, 
mix ivith thi-ie HpoonfulH of yeast, that is not hitter, to a 
paste, let it rise an liour and a half, then mix in the yelks 
and whites of four eggs l)eaten apart, one pound sugar, some 
milk to make it a proper thickness, (about a pint will Ik* 
sufficient), the rind of a lemon and a teaspoonful of ginger, 
add cither a pound of currants or some carraway and beat 
well.— Mrs. E. Labrash. 

Tliree Layer Chocolate Cake 

One cup of sugar, half cup milk, one cup of butter, three 
eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, one teaspoon soda, 
one teaspoon cream of tarter, sufficient flour to make a bat- 
ter. Filling for cake— half cake of chocolate, one cup of milk, 
one cup sugar, noil until it thickens, spread between and on 
top of cake.— K. Cummer. 

Cocoanut Layer Cake 

The yolks of three eggs, two cups sugar, two teaspoons 
baking powder; bake in jelly tins and use the whites for frost- 
ing each cake, sprinkle each layer thickly with cocoanut.— Mrs. 
W. J. Boyd. 

Pink and White Layer Cake 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, beat to a cream ; one 
cup milk, one cup com starch, two cups flour, two teaspoons 
baking powder well sifted dry with the flour, whites of six 
eggs beaten stiff", stir all together. This will make five layers; 
separate enough to make two layers and add to it one tea- 
spoon fruit coloring.— Mrs. W. J. Boyd. 

rietropolitan Calce 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, one of milk, four cups 
of flour, whites of eight eggs, three teaspoons baking powder, 
flavor with lemon. Tak< a little more than three-fifths of 
this mixture in three jelly tins, add to the remaining batter 
one tablespoon ground allspice, one and a half tablespoons 
cinnamon, teaspoon cloves, quarter pound each of sliced citron 
and chopped raisins, bake in two jelly tins, and put together 
with frosting, alternating dark and white. — Mrs. F. C King. 









<% 



'f.'4 



98 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



'-i!l': 



-mm:- 






ifr 



, $ 



Jersey Lily Cake 

One cup white sugar, half cup butter, creamed, half cup 
-weet milk, one and three-quarter cups flour, one and a half 
Isivspoons baking powder, whites of four eggs, put half the 
batter in a long tin, add a thin layer of chopped raisins and 
English walnuts, then the remainder of batter, ice with boiled 
or caramel icing.— Miss L. Taylor. 

Layer Qing:er Cake 

One cup of molasses, stir into it two cups flour, one tea- 
spoon soda, one cup boiling water, stir into this the follow- 
ing mixture :— Yolk of one egg, a tablespoon butter, a teaspoon 
of ginger, half teaspoon ground cinnamon. Mix all well and 
bake in layers. Ice with the white of the egg, sugar and 
flavor.— Mrs. E. Willson. 

Qolden Cream Cake 

Cream one cup sugar and one-fourth cup butter, add half 
a cup sweet milk, well-beaten whites of three eggs, one and a 
half cups flour, half a teaspoon soda and" a teaspoon cream 
tartar sifted with it, bake in three deep jelly tins, beat very 
light the yolks of two eggs and one cup sugar and two 
tablespoons rich sweet cream, flavor with vanilla and spread 
on cakes, or to the yolks add one and a half tablespoons 
cornstarch, three-quarters cup sweet milk, a small lump of 
butter, sweeten and flavor to taste, cook in a custard kettle 
till thick, let cool and then spread.— Mrs. F. C. King. 

Cocoa Cake 

One and a half cups brown sugar, one and a half cups 
butter, one cup sour milk, three-quarters cup cocoa, one tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in milk, one teaspoon vanilla, two eggs 
and two cups flour.— Mrs. Morrow. 

Cocoanut Cake 

One cup butter, three of sugar, one of milk, four of flour, 
or one pint, one teaspoonful soda, two of cream tartar, five 
eggs, bake in layers like jelly cake. Icing to place between the 
layers— Half a pound of white sugar to the whites of two 
eggs, whip the eggs and add the grated cocoanut, and place 
between the layers.— Mrs. T. Haystead. 






B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



99 



i-3-3'4 Cake 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, four 
eggs, three teaspoons baking powder, either for layer or sponge 
cake.— Mrs. M. A. Converse. 

Tumbler Cake 

Two tumblers brown sugar, one tumbler butter, one 
tumbler molasses, one tumbler sweet milk, eight tumblers of 
flour, two small teaspoons soda, one teaspoonful each cloves, 
cinnamon and nutmeg. This makes a good every day fruit 
cake by adding half a pound citron cut fine, one pint raisins, 
and will keep a long time.— Mrs. M. A. Converse. 

Old Fashioned Pound Cake 

One pound raisins, stoned, one pound currants, one pound 
butter, one pound dark brown sugar, half pound blanched 
almonds chopped fine, quarter pound each orange, lemon and 
citron peel, one pound flour, ten eggs, yolks and whites beaten 
separately, a small cup of warm water with a teaspoon soda 
dissolved in it, a cupful of milk and half a wine glass of rose 
water, stir thoroughly, bake in moderate oveJh four hours.— 
Mrs. Butt. 

Marble Cake 

White Part— One cup butter, two cups white sugar, half 
cup sour cream or buttermilk, three and a half cups flour, 
whites of seven eggs, one teaspoonful of soda. Black Part- 
Two cups brown sugar, one cup of butter, one cup molasses, 
five cups flour, half cup sour cream or buttermilk, yolks of 
seven eggs, one grated nutmeg, two tablespoonfuls cinnamon, 
one tablespoonful of cloves, one tablespoonful allspice, one 
tablespoonful of black pepper, one teaspoonful soda.— Mrs. C. 
Labrash. 

Brown George 

Half cup West India molasses, half cup brown sugar, one 
teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon soda, 
put in the molasses, butter size of an egg, half cup warm 
water, yolks of two eggs, two and a half cups flour. Bake in 
three layers, use the whites of the eggs for boiled fi-osting.- 
Mrs. Purvis. 



^'Pl*^!i!« 






: ^^t 



. tsi.a 





100 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



riolasses Cake 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, quarter cup butter, one 
cup of warm water, one teaspoon soda dissolved in water, one 
teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon cinnamon, three and a half 
cups flour.— Miss Burd. 

Delicate Cake 

Three cups tlour, two cups sugar, three-quarters cup 
sweet milk, whites of six eggs, half cup butter, one teaspoon 
cream tartar, half teaspoon soda, flavor with lemon.— Mrs. 
Maxwell. 

Qerman Pancakes 

Grate three large raw potatoes, add half a teaspoon of 
salt, two eggs, two tablespoons flour, fry in hot butter. These 
excel all other pancakes.— Miss L. Taylor. 

Nutmeg Cake 

Half cup butter, one ard a half cups brown sugar, one 
cup raisins and one of currants, two eggs, two teaspoons 
molasses, one teaspoon soda dissolved in one cup sour milk, 
nearly a whole nutmeg, a teaspoon of cinnamon and allspice,' 
flour to thicken.— Selected. 

Fruit Cake 

Whites of three eggs, one cup white sugar, half cup of 
butter, cup flour, cup cocoanut, half cup corn starch, half cup 
sweet milk, two teaspoons baking powder, almond nuts sliced 
—Mrs. F. vS. Walton. 

Fruit Cake, No. 2. 

Three pounds white sugar, half pound butter, mix well 
together, then yolks of twelve eggs, beat with sugar and 
butter, half cup molasses, four pounds raisins, three pounds 
currants, rind of two lemons, two pounds candied peel, citron 
and lemon mixed, two nutmegs grated, one heaping tablespoon 
cinnamon mixed in before the fruit, whites of twelve eggs 
beaten stiff", two pounds sifted flour, two teaspoons baking 
powder, almonds skinned and chopped fine are nice. This is 
enough for two good sized cakes. Bake four hours in a slow 
ovcii. — Mrs. R. J. Lcc. 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



101 



Fruit Cake, No. 3. 

Cup and a half of lard and butter mixed, beat up about 
six eggs in lard, one and a half cups sour milk and two tea- 
spoons soda dissolved in a little warm water, a teaspoon salt, 
one oup each of raisins and currants, one nutmeg, a teaspoon 
mixed spices, one teaspoon cinnamon, three-quarters of lemon 
peel, flour enough to make a stiff batter, always mix your 
fruit with the flour, then into the other ingredients.— Mrs. F. 
Dowell. 

Fruit Cake, No. 4. 

Half cup butter, one cup of sour milk, one cup brown 

sugar, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon nutmeg, two cups of 

flour, one cup of raisins.— Mrs. Argue. 

Fruit Cake, No. 5. 

This is one of the finest fruit cakes made, and for its 
novelty is a favorite wedding and holiday cake. With proper 
care it will keep a year. Black Part— One cupful and a half 
sugar, one cupful of butter, two cupfuls of browned flour, 
yolks of six eggs, one and a half pounds of raisins, one pound 
currants, half pound of citron, quarter pound of nuts, two- 
thirds of a cupful of rose water, one teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in hot water, half a teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon, 
nutmeg and allspice. Cream the sugar and butter, add eggs 
and beat well, then add fruit and lastly soda. Bake a test 
cake and add more flour if necessary, as one flour does not 
hold up the fruit as well as another. White Part— The whites 
of six eggs, «me cupful of white sugar, half cupful of butter, 
half cupful sweet cream, two and a half cupfuls flour, two 
heaping teaspoons baking powder, one pound of almonds 
chopped fine, half pound citron cut fine, half pound grated 
cocoanut, one teaspoonful of rose water, one teaspoonful of 
lemon extract, one small .slice of sugared orange peel. Cream 
the sugar and butter, add cream, sifted flour, nuts, etc., and 
lastly the whites of the eggs beaten stiff". Select a deep baking 
pan and line the bottom with buttered paper. Put in a layer 
of black cake and then a layer of white, and so on until the 
pan is two-thirds full ; bake for an hour or more in a moder- 
ate oven; ice and decorate when ready for use. Fruit cake 
keeps better and is nicer for puddings if not iced, but merely 
wrapped in a cloth wrung out of brown sugar syrup.— Mrs. 
Ross. 



M' 



,i' 



ill:. • 



'i 




, ^ it*' 


> 


\ 


" 't 





102 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



Fruit Cake, No. 6. 

Cream a teacupful each sugar and butter, one teacupful 
milk, two and a half teacups flour sifted with a teaspoon of 
baking powder, one pound figs, one pound dates, one pound 
almonds, one pound Sultana raisins, quarter pound citron 
peel, whites of seven eggs.— Miss Raymond, Dudley, Eng. 
Fruit Cake, No. 7. 

One pound butter, one pound dark brown sugar, three- 
quarter pound almonds, blanched and chopped, two pounds of 
mixed peel, three pounds raisins, three pounds currants, eleven 
eggs, eighteen ounces browned flour, two cups coffee, one table- 
spoonful each of allspice, cloves and cinnamon.— Mrs. John 
Galna. 

Fruit Cake, No. 8. 

Eight eggs, four cups sugar, one and a half cups cream, 
two cups of butter, two teaspoons soda, two tablespoons of 
cinnamon, half tablespoon cloves, one ounce each :mon, orange 
and citron peel, one pound almond nuts, three pounds raisins, 
one pound figs, eight cups flour, one cup blackstrap.— Mrs. Ed. 
Bregg. 

Fruit Cake, No. 9. 

One pound six ounces of flour, one pound dark sugar, 
twelve eggs, one pound butter, two pounds currants, three 
pounds raisins, three-quarters cup blackstrap, half pound mixed 
peel, half teaspoon allspice, one teaspoon cinnamon, half tea- 
spoon cloves, one nutmeg, three pounds almonds sliced, then 
two teaspoons baking powder. Take butter and sugar, beat 
it to a cream, then add the eggs next, beaten, then the spices, 
then fruit, mix baking powder with the flour, half cup rose 
water.— Mrs. T. Ryder, 

Fruit Cake, No. 10. 

Four large cups flour, one pound butter, two grated nut- 
megs, two pounds raisins, two pounds currants, half pound 
mixed peel, one small teaspoon soda, two cups sugar, one 
dozen eggs, mix flour and butter thoroughly with the hands. 
Add soda, m:*; add nutmeg, mix; add peel, riiix; add sugar, 
mix; add fruit, mix; add eggs, well beaten separately; add 
two cups of water, mix. Li.ie tins with buttered paper, and 
bake with a slow fire about one and a half hours.— Miss 
Lizzie Wallace, 



r, 



v 



.#« 



15. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



1.03 



Fruit Cake No. 11, 

Two cups sugar, two cups molasses, one cup butter, one 
cuj) raisiiis stoned and chopped, one cup currants, four cups of 
flour, one cup milk, four eggs, two teaspoons baking powder, 
quarter pound citron peel, one teaspoon each any kind spices. 
—Mrs. J. H. Baker. 

Fruit Cake No. 12. 

Three pounds currants, three pounds raisins, half pound 
lemon peel, one pound butter, one pound sugar, one pint syrup, 
one bottle vanilla, one bottle lemon, three teaspoons baking pow- 
der, one cup water, eighteen eggs, one nutmeg.— Mrs. yuebec. 

Fruit Cake No. 13. 

One pound raisins, one pound currants, half pound citron, 
orange and lemon mixed, one pound sugar, one pound flour, 
six eggs, one nutmeg, almonds, two teaspoons baking powder, 
half cup syrup, half bottle vanilla, one cup milk, one ounce 
allspice. This is the best fruit cake recipe I have ever had.— 
Miss L. Taylor. 

Fruit Cake No. 14. 

Two pounds of raisins, seeded, two pounds currants, ten 
eggs, three-quarters pound lemon and orange peel, one pound 
butter, one pound brown sugar, one cup syrup, one cup sweet 
milk, three teaspoons baking powder, enough flour to make a 
stiff batter, two teaspoons cloves and two of cinnamon.— Mrs. 
M. J. Newburn. 

Fruit Cake No. 15. 

Four eggs, half a cup of black molasses, two cups brown 
sugar, one cup shortening, half cup butter, half cup lard, one 
cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon of cinnamon, 
cloves and allspice, one cup currants, two cups raisins, one 
lemon peel, one tablespoon extract lemon.— Mrs. T. Yates. 

Fruit Cake No. 16. 

One cup butter, one and one half cups sugar, one cup 
molasses, five eggs, one cup sweet milk, one pound currants, 
one and one half pounds raisins, half pound mixed peel, one 
tablespoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonfui ginger, two nutmegs, 
one ten cent bottle of vanilla, two teaspoons baking powder, 
Hour to thicken.— Mrs. E. C. McKiuicy. 



U' vin 



104 



B. V. V. U. COOK BOOK. 



„. tW'^^ 



f\i 



> » 




I-'ruit Cake, No. 17. 

One jjound powdered sugar, one pound Hour, three- 
quarters pound butter, seven eggs, half pound currants, wash- 
ed, picked over and dried, half pound raisins, seeded and 
chopped, then dredged, half pound citron cut into strips, one 
teasp( jn nutmeg, one teaspoon cinnamon, one glass rose 
water, cream butter and sugar, add the beaten yolks, then the 
spice and the whipped whites alternately with the flour, the 
fruit and rose water last.— Mrs. J. Manson. 

Fkuit Cakk, No. 18. 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, one pound butter, 
four pound raisins, two pounds currants, one pound citron 
peel, one pound eggs, one teaspoon cloves, one wineglassful 
of rose water, half cup molasses, one pound of almonds.— Miss 
Raymond, Dudley, Eng. 

Christmas Cake 

Ten eggs, one pound of butter, one pound brown sugar, 
two pounds currants, two pounds stoned raisins chopped 
one quarter lemon peel, half pound orange peel, spices to suit 
the taste, cream the butter, add flour to thicken.— Mrs. Harry 
Jukes. 

Christmas Cake, No. 2. 

Two cups sugar, two cups butter, quarter pound each of 
lemon, orange and citron peel, one pound almond nuts, 
blanched, twelve eggs, one teaspoonful each of soda, salt, all- 
sjnce, cinnamon and cloves, one cup golden syrup, two-thirds 
of a cup of jelly or fruit, raisins and currants; chop raisins, 
peel and nuts together, add currants and mix with one and a 
half cups flour; cream butter and sugar, add beaten eggs, then 
add soda and spice mixed with a little flour, mix all together 
and make as stift as necessary. You can use as much currants 
and raisins as you wish. 

Christmas Cake, No. 3. 

One ])ound six ounces flour, one pound dark brown sugar, 
twelve eggs, one pound butter, two pounds currants, three 
pounds seedless raisins, three-quarters cup black molasses, half 
pound mixed peel, half teaspoon allspice, half teaspoon cinna- 
mon, half teaspoon cloves, one nutmeg, three-quarters puuud 



#»• 



4K^ 



IJ. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



105 



almonds chopped fine, two teaspoons baking powder, take 
sugar and butter and beat to a cream, then add eggs well 
beaten, then fruit and ingredients, mix flour and baking 
powder together, add two ounces rose water, if desired, . to 
keep it moist. — Mrs. T. Massalcs. 



# 



Chocolate Cake 

One whole egg and one yolk of another, one half cup 
sugar, one half cup butter, one half cup sweet milk, two cups 
flour, one teaspoon soda. Put on stove to cook one half cup 
sugar, one half cup milk, yolk of one egg and two squares of 
baker's chocolate. When well cooked, or when smooth, stir 
into the above mixture. Use two eggs for frosting.— Mrs. 
Henry. 

Chocolate Cake, No. 2. 

Two and a half cups sugar, one cup butler, one cup 
"sour milk, one teaspoon soda, three cups flour, half cup baker's 
chocolate, five eggs. — Mrs. Canfield. 



Chocolate Cake, No. 3. 

Eight tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, five tablespoon- 
fuls granulated sugar and half cup milk; cook until thick, 
then let cool. Cake — Half cup butter, one and a half cups 
brown sugar, stir well, then drop in three eggs separately, 
and beat well after each, add three-quarters cup flour and two 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, stir well and pou^in custard. 
Stirring well, add one cup of flour, half cup of milk, and flavor 
with vanilla, bake in two square tins. Icing — One cup of 
sugar, half cup cream, one teaspoonful butter, boil together 
until thick and put a lit?, between each layer, leaving some 
for the top. 

Chocolate Cake, No. 4. 

Break quarter pound ^bitter chocolate into small pieces, 
and turn over it a scant cup hot water. While dissolving stir 
together a scant half cup butter, two cups light brown sugar, 
two eggs, half cup sour milk, in which dissolve one small tea- 
spoon soda, add the dissolved chocolate and two cups flour, 
enough for four layers, spread with boiled frosting, flavored 
with vanilla, it is very nice baked in a ioai.— Mrs. C. E. Pratt. 



:\ i 





# 



I 1 



Hilt 



'«» 



-■% 



106 



U. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 

« 



Pork Cake 

One pound fat salt pork entirely free from lean or rind, 
ehopped so fine as to be almost like lard, and pour half pint 
bbiling water upon it, one pound raisins seeded and chopped, 
quarter pound citron shaved into shreds, two cups sugar, one 
cup molasses, one teaspoon soda rubbed fine and put into 
molasses, mix these all together^ and stir in sifted flour to 
make the consistence of common cake mixture, stir in half an 
ounce nutmeg, one ounce cloves, two ounces cinnamon, bake 
slowly imtil done.— Mrs. M. A. Thompson. 

Jelly Cake 

Three eggs beaten well with one cup sugar, when light 
add one cup flour, one teaspoon cream tartar, and one half 
teaspoon soda dissolved in water; baking powder can be used 
instead of baking soda and cream tartar. Chocolate Icing- 
Half cake chocolate grated fine, two-thirds cup. sugar, half cup 
of cream or milk, boil and stir to a paste.— Mrs. T. White. . 

Jelly Cake, No. 2. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one tablespoon butter, one and 
a half cups flour, one tablespoon baking powder, two-thir3s 
cups milk, beat the butter to a cream and add the yolks of 
the eggs, well beaten, beat the whites to a froth and add to 
the sugar, mix all together,* then put in the flour, with ^he 
baking powder well mixed in, last of all add the milk, flavor 
with essence. — Mrs. F. Laurie. 

Jelly CAifp, No. 3. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, two teaspoons 
baking powder, three tablespoons milk.— Mrs. F. Laurie. 

Jelly Cake, No. 4. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, butter the size of an egg, one 
cup flour, one teaspoonful cream tartar sifted in the flour, 
half teaspoonful soda dissolved in a tablespoonful milk, bake 
in jelly cake tins, and spread when cold with fruit jelly.— Mrs. 
James Manson. 

Jelly Cake, No. 5. 

Two eggs, one cup white sugar, one tablespoon butter, 
one half cup of sweet milk, two teaspoons bafcing powder, one 
and a half cups of flour, put -elly between layers.— Mrs. T. 
Laidlaw. • 



.!^, 



B. Y. I'. U. COOK IJOOK. 



107 



Jelly Cake, No. 6 

One cuj) of butter, two ch])s sugar, tliree and a half cups 
flour, one cup of milk, two eggs, two teaspoons cream tartar, 
one teaspoon soda, stir all together without separating the 
eggs, put soda in milk and stir the cream tartar in flour. 
Bake the same as jelly cakt;, and use frosting between made 
of whites of three eggs and fine white sugar.— Mrs. S. Woods. 
Jelly Cake, No. 7. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, one tea- 
spoon baking powder, add a pinch of salt, spread out in long 
baking tin, bake quickly, turn out on a cloth wrung out of 
cold water, spread with jelly, roll up and leave 'in the cloth 
until wanted to cut.— Mrs. E. T. Henry. 
Jelly Ca^, No. 8. 

Two eggs wel' beaten, three-quarters cup sugar, one table- 
spoon cold water, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons of cream 
of tartar, one cup of flour, roll thin, bake in a moderate oven, 
tjien spread with fruit jelly and roll.— Mrs. S. Armstrong. 

Cocoanut Cup Cake 

Two cups sugar, two cups butter, one cup milk4|one tea- 
spoon essence lemon, half a nutmeg grated, four well beaten 
eggs, and the white meat of a cocoanut grated, use as much 
sifted flour, as will make a rather stiff batter, beat it well. 
Butter square pans, line them with white paper and put in 
the mixture an inch deep, bake in a moderate oven half an 
hour, or. it may require ten minutes longer, when cold cut in 
small st|uares or diamonds. This is a rich cake, and is much 
improved by a thin icing. — Mrs. J. Newell. 

Rice Pancakes 

Boil half a cup of rice twenty minutes. When cold take 
one cup .of milk, pinch of salt, half a teaspoon baking powder, 
two well beaten eggs and- flour enough to make quite thick, 
beat all well together, fry in fat same as pancakes. — Mrs. Geo. 
Moore. 

Raisin Cake 

One pound floured raisins, two eggs, two cups sugar, one 
cup molasses, one rounded teaspoon soda, half teaspoon of all 
kinds of spices, half cup melted butter, one and a half cups 
clear coffee, hot, flour for stiff" batter, bake in a covered pan 
with slow lire. — Mrs. Geo. Tuck. 



t 






■i 


■ !.' ■ 


i 


■ H. 


i 



108 



H. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



1 'i 




sH 



Cream Sponge Cake 

Three eggs, one eup sugar, one and a hulf eups flour, one 
tal)lespoon baking powder, two and a half eups eohl water, 
stir with hand ten minutes, balte in layers in quiek oven 
about ten minutes.— Mrs. Knifton. 

Black Chocolate Cake 

Two eups of light l)rowii sugar, half cup butter, half eup 
sweet milk, two eups flour, one teasjjoon soda in flour, whites 
of three eggs, beaten. Stir in filling made of following:— Cut 
four . .piares of baker's ehocolate, half a cup sweet milk, yolk 
of an egg, make filling first and let cool, put eggs in last, 
make in three layers. Chocolate icing for the above— Melt two 
scjuares of chocolate, three cups powdered sugar^^ wet with 
milk and flavor.— Mrs. A. F. Cobb. 

FiK Cake 

For the white jiart— Take two eups sug£ir, two of flour, 
two-thirds of sweet milk, one haif cup of butter, whites of five 
eggs, two teaspoons baking powder; bake this in two round 
tins lilffe you would jelly cake. For the fig or dark part- 
Take one cup of brown sugar, butter size of walnut, cup flour, 
cup chopped figs, one half cup sweet milk, one egg, one teaspoon 
baking powder, when done place the fig cake between the light 
cake with a light frosting.— Mrs. J. M. Walkinshaw. 

Cream Cake 

Boil nearly a pint of milk, and while boiling take three 
even tablespoons corn starch, dissolve in a little milk, and to 
this add two eggs well beaten and stir slowly into milk, add 
a scant cup of white sugar, when almost done add a little 
less than half a cup butter, two teaspoons of essence of cin- 
namon or vanilla.— Mrs. Knifton. 

Fig Layer Cake 

Half a cup butter, one eup sugar, yolks of two eggs, 
two-thirds cup sweet milk, two cups flour not very full, two 
teaspoons baking powder, flavor with vanilla or lemon, bake 
in three layers, put frosting with chopped figs between each 
layer. Fig paste— One pound stoned raisins, one pound figs 
chopped fine, add hot water a drop at a time until a smooth 
paste.— Mrs. A. Bowler, Depot Harbor. 



Ss, 



U. Y. 1'. U. COOK BOOK. 



109 



Cup Cake 

Two and a hrlf cups of flour, half cup butter, half cup 
milk, one cup brown su^ar, one teasponnfu! soda, flavor with 
nutmeg.— Mrs. Michaclis. 

Fritters 

Pour boiling water over one pint of flour, beat till per- 
fectly smooth into a thin batter. When nearly cold break four 
eggs into it, oil well beaten, a little salt, fry a spoonful at a 
time in boiling lard.— Mrs. 11. Collett. 

Spice Cake 

Half cup butter, two teaspoons baking powder, half cuj) 
flour, quarter teaspoon cloves, one cup sugar, half teaspoon nut- 
meg, half cup milk, half teaspoon cinnamon, two eggs, half 
teaspoon allspice.— Mrs. Purvis. 

Layer Cake Without Butter 

One cup sugar, two eggs well beaten, eight tablespoons 
boiling water, one large cup flour, one and one half teaspoons 
baking powder, bake in two layers and use filling to suit 
taste.— Mrs. N. L. A. 

Plum Cake 

Five pounds of raisins, one pound citron and lemon peel, 
two pounds almonds, blanched and chopped, one pound butter, 
one pound of sugar, one pound flour, one teaspoon mace, one 
teaspoon cinnamon, thirteen eggs.— Mrs. Beatty. 

Imperial Cake 

One pound granulated sugar, one pound butter, one 
pound flour, one and a quarter pounds seeded raisins, half a 
pound citron peel, nine eggs, one and a quarter pounds 
blanched almonds, one grated lemon, two teaspoons baking 
powder sifted with flour, flour raisins and citron to prevent 
falling.— Mrs. John Galna. 

Raspberry Cake 

One cup coffee sugar, half cup of butter, one cup canned 
raspberry juice, three eggs, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon 
cinnamon, one and »one half cups flour, brown sugar icing. — 



iXi Ul 1 u \v . 



- '1H 

".'I .^1 

■i sH 



110 



K. Y. r. V. COOK IUM)K. 



|i)i 




LiKht Cake 

Tlircc CKK!^. I^t-^P <»iil ^vhilc of mic, diic t-'up siiv.iir fi\aiiR(l 
will) till- vugs, two cups swccl milk, one Icaspooii lemon ex- 
tract, one Clip l)Utler melted, three teaspoons pure k(''<I '>akin^' 
po\v(>tT, mix in tin Hour, use enough flour to make a thin 
bHtttr, pour in the butter when adiliuj; flour, bake in moder- 
ate oven. Icinji;— One cup suj^ar, (piarter cup watei , put on 
stove and l)od until it strands Jroni (he Hpoo;i, have the white 
of the egg beaten to a stitt" foam, pour the sugar onto the 
white of the egg, beating briskly for one minute, put on cake 
aunh nt in stpiares. — Mrs. (ieorge. 

Breakfast Coffee Cake 

Take a piece ol bread dough and adil one half cup of 
sugar and a tablespoon melted butter, then roll out an inch 
thick Htid put on a greased ])ie pan, brush the top with melt- 
ed butter, and cover thick with cinnamon and .sugar; let it 
rise and bake (piick, cut in long narrow strips to 'serve, eat 
hot or cold. It is nice to make on Saturday to use Sunday 
morning for breakfast.— Miss Kegina Offer. 

Watermelon Cake 

This cake must l)e mixed in two separate dishes; in one 
beat the yolks of four eggs, one cu]) sugar, one cup butter, 
one pound flour, two teaspoons baking powder, water or milk 
enough to make a batter as for fruit cake, or nearly as thick, 
use pink sugar instead of white, or use cochineal for coloring. 
For the second part beat one cup butter and one cu]> white 
sugar to a cream, the whites of four eggs well beaten, flavor 
with lemon, half cup water or milk, flour enough to make a 
batter almost as thick as first batter. Directions — Grea.se a 
round dish and pour the first mixture right in centre of the 
dish, then pour the second mixture all around the middle part. 
Then take a half cup of raisins and push them down with a 
fork to the bottom of the dish in the pink middle part, one 
at a time; put them down in rows so when the cake is cut 
like a watermelon there will be a row of raisins in each jjicce. 
This makes a very pretty cake, the centre being a pretty red- 
dish color, resembling the centre of the watermelon, the raisins 
looking like seeds, and liie white batter on the outside the 
peel. Bake in a moderati tin.— Mrs. M C Thomijoon. 



B. Y. P. U. COOK UOOK. 



Ill 



Orange Cake 

Two t'gK», oro fup suKur, size of an egg of butter, one 
Clip milk, two {i .•.-.i.f >nn baking ])ow<Ier, flavor with vanilla. 
Hour to make . uter. Orange— Scjueez-- the juice out of one 
large orange, thicken juice with icing '♦ngar, spread on cake, 
slice bananas and i)ut a strip of oratige and a strip of banana 
on lop of cake.— Mrs. Hall. 

Jersey Lily Cake 

One cup white Mugar, half cup butter creamed, half cup 
Hwcet milk, one and thret-fpiarter cups of flour, three tea- 
spoons baking powder, whites ot four eggs, put lit If the "batter 
in a long tin, then add a thin layr of chopped raisins and 
English walnuts, then remaii' ier of the batter, cut iii squares, 
and place on each square a piece of the chopped sweetmeat.— 
Mrs. H. McCoy. 

Sponge Cake 

Three eggs well beaten, tidd one cup white si tr, half a 
cui» water, one cup flour, two teaspoons bai uig po dcr. 

Si'ONGK Cakk, No. 2. 

Beat to a froth sev'n eggs and two teacupfuls sugfir, 8i*r 
into this two coffee cup flour, in which is mixed n. tea- 
spoonful of saleratus and two of eream of tartar, fla tvith 
the grated rind and juice if a lemon, bake in sheets mod- 
erately hot oven.— Mrs. J. !rown. 

Sponge Cake, No. 3. 

Three eggs, save white- of two for fro.sting. one of 

brown sugar, one cup butter one cup sour milk, one tc >on 

soda, one tablespoon syrup, mc teaspoon cinnamon, oit ea- 

spoon cloves, one teaspoon nutmeg, brown sugar for it — 
Miss Ferguson. 

Sponge Cake, No. 4. 

Two cups sugar, one cup boiling water, two and a naif 
cups flour, six eggs, leaving out the whites of three for icing 
sift one tablespoon of baking i wder into flour, heat yolks o1 
eggs a little, add sugar and be t for fifteen minutes, add three 
beaten whites and cup boiling \ ater just before the flour, tea- 
spoon extract lemon, bake in iree layers, putting icing be- 
tween, made of three beaten wh es, dessertspoon of pulverized 
sugar to each egg, flavor with i aou. — Mrs. il. McCoy. 




.'Il' 



112 



13. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



V 
^1'- 



fit 




I i 



I 4 



f '''X 




Berry Cake 

One cup sugar, half a cup butter, one egg, three table- 
spoons sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, two and a half cups 
flour, one cup berries. — Mrs. Cryderman. 

Delicate Cake 

One cup white sugar, one cup cold water, whites of two 
eggs, four tablespoons sweet cream, one large tablespoon flour, 
flavor with lemon, line the pic plate with the pastry, pour in 
the mixture and bake at once.— Mrs. P. Harrison. 

Delicate Cake, No. 2. 

Whites of four eggs, one cup of sugar, half cup of butter, 
one cup of milk, two and a half cups flour, two large tea- 
spoons baking powder, cream the butter and sugar, add milk 
and sift in flour and leaking powder, beat whites of eggs and 
^ut in last thing, flavor to suit.— Mrs. C. W. Pickard, Kent 
Bridge. 

Date Cake 

Two cups oatmeal, two cups flour, one cup brown, sugar, 
one cup butter, three-quarters cup lard, one half cup milk, or 
more if required, to moisten. — Miss Johnston. 

Date Cake, No. 2. 

Stone one pound dates and dust with flour, stir one-third 
cup butter and one cup sugar to a cream, add two well 
beaten eggs, two cups flour, one heaping teaspoon baking 
powder, beat all until it looks fine, then add one cup sweet 
milk and beat again, lastly stir in the floured dates.— Mrs. E. 
Banks. 

Coffee Cake 

One cup each brown sugar, butter, cold strong coffee and 
molasses, three eggs, two cups raisins, baking powder, two 
cups flour.— Mrs. P. Harrison. 

Coffee Cake, No. 2. 

One cup sugar, one cup molasses, thr'^e-quarters cup of 
liuttcr, one cup strong coffee, one cup raisins, one cup currants, 
one tablespoon each of ground cloves and cinnamon, three cups 
flour, three teaspoons baking powder, three eggs.— Mrs. J. J. 
Canfield. 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



113 



Orange Cake 

One cup white sugar, piece of butter size of an egg, two 
eggs, two cups flour, one cup of milk, two teaspoons baking 
powder. Dressing— Half pound of icing sugar, the juice of one 
orange, mix together and spread on cake, then quarter the 
oranges and put on top.— L. Whelan. 

Or.\nge Cake, No. 2. 

One cup sugar, half a cup butter, half a cup of sweet 
milk, two cups flour, three eggs, one and a half teaspoons of 
baking powder, bake in jelly tins. Orange frosting for same- 
One orange, grate off" the outside and mix with the juice, add 
sugar until quite stiff, and make like jelly cake, make four 
layers of the cake.— Mrs. Thomas Maxwell. 

Cream Cake 

Half cup sour cream, half cup white sugar, one teaspoon 
cream tartar, half teaspoon soda, one cup flour, season with 
nutmeg.— Mrs. P. Harrison. 

Cream Cake, No. 2. 

Cake— Two eggs, one cup sugar, half cup sweet milk, 
butter size of a walnut, two cups flour, two teaspoons baking 
powder, flavor with vanilla. Cream— Boil two cups milk, when 
boiling add two tablespoons sugar, one egg well beaten, two 
tablespoons flour or corn starch, small piece of butter. After 
it is cooked place between cakes same as jelly cake.— Mrs. 
Ireland. 

Tit-Tat-Toe Cake 

Beat four eggs very light, then add a cream made by 
beating two and a half cups sugar and one full cup of butter, 
one cup sweet milk, a large pinch of salt, two teaspoons bak- 
ing powder stirred in with two and a half cups flour, divide 
the dough thus made into three parts. To one part add half 
a cup raisins stoned and chopped, half a cup currants, half a 
teaspoon of cir amon; this is for one layer of the cake. To 
the next part add two tablespoonfuls grated chocolate, and 
one teaspoon of vanilla; the next flavor with lemon. When 
baked put chocolate layer 6ri' the bottom, the fruit one next, 
and the light layer ou the Lop, frost all over.— Miss Kiriman. 



« 



>^^• 



"/ 



^' 1 


i . •■■ 


• 





ti' 





114. 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



Spice Cake 

One and a half cups sugar, half cuj) butter, half cup 
sour milk, two cups of raisins choj^ped, three eggs, half a nut- 
meg, one teaspoon cinnamon, one of cloves, one of saleratus, 
mix rather stiff, bake in loaf tin in moderate oven.— Mrs. 
Wolfrem. 

Spice Cake, No. 2. 

One cup sugar, three-quarters cup of butter and fill it up 
with milk, one egg, one and three-quarter cups flour, one small 
teaspoon soda, one dessertspoon cinnamon, cloves and allspice. 
— A. Harrison. 

Almond Cake 

One small cup butter, half pound sugar, half pound flour, 
three eggs, half cujj sweet milk, two small teaspoons cream of 
tartar, one small teaspoon soda, half cup blanched almonds 
sliced very thin, flavor, cream butter and sugar, add eggs 
beaten separately, then flour, cream tartar and soda sifted to- 
gether, stir in almonds, put cake an inch deep in pan, spread 
almonds over top and sift sugar to just cover, bake half an 
hour. — Mrs. C. Bovair. 

Raised Cake 

Three cups of light dough, three eggs, two heaping cups 
of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup chopped raisins, put in a 
dish together and work with hands until well mixed, spice to 
taste, put in pans and bake at once. — Mrs. C. E. Pratt. 

Cup Cake 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, four 
eggs, one cup of sweet milk, one tcaspoonful soda, bake in a 
loaf, or as jelly cake. —Mrs. James Manson. 

Cup Cake, No. 2. 

Cream together one cup of butter and two of sugar, 
when white add the beaten yolks of four eggs, mix all well 
together gradually, beat in three cups of sifted flour in which 
two teaspoons of baking powder has been mixed, a small cup 
of milk, using milk alternately with the flour, add the whites 
of the eggs beaten stiff, stir them in lightly, bake in a quick 
uvcn.— Mrs. Morrow. 



15. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



115 



Rainbow Cake 

This cake is made in three parts, as for layer cake. 
White Part— The whites of two eggs, three-quarters cuj) gran- 
ulated sugar, butter about the size of a walnut, quarter cup 
milk, one teaspoon baking powder, about one cup flour, flavor 
with lemon. Brown Part— Beat the yolks of two eggs, half 
cup brown sugar, half cui) molasses, butter size of a walnut, 
one teaspoon pastry spice, quarter cup hot water, one tea- 
spoon soda, one cup flour. Ked Part— Two eggs, one cup of 
white sugar, butter size of a walnut, half cup milk, two table- 
spoons cochineal, one teaspoon baking powder, flavor with 
lemon, and about the same quantity of flour as for white and 
brown parts. Bake ill three large jelly cake tins, round or 
square, put banana jelly between layers, or any other kind you 
choose.— Miss La Braque. 

Rich Bride Cake 

Five pounds sifted flour; three pounds fresh butter, two 
pounds white sugar, five pounds currants, one and a quarter 
pounds sweet almonds, three-quarters pound candied citron, six 
ounces each of candied orange and lemon peel, quarter ounce 
of mace, half or quarter ounce cloves, seventeen eggs, two gills 
rosewater, two nutmegs and a little orange flower water, 
blanch and pound the almonds, adding a little orange flower 
water to prevent oiling, then proceed to work the butter with 
the hands until the consistency of cream, add the sugar, whip 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add to the butter 
and sugar, beat the yolks oi the eggs for twelve minutes and 
add them to the flour, grated nutmeg, and finely powdered 
cloves and mace, beating the whole for three-quarters of an 
hour, then proceed to add lightly the almonds with the 
thinly sliced peel, and lastly the rosewater, then beat for half 
an hour. Line cake tins with buttered paper, and fill with 
the mixture. The oven should be fairly qn'.k, but great care 
must be taken that it is not too fierce, or the cake will brown 
before it begins to soak. It will take about six hours to bake. 
When baked turn on end to allow steam to evaporate, and 
spread with icing when cold.— Mrs. T. Thompson. • ^ 

1234 Cake 

'One cup of butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, one 
cup sweet milk, four eggs, two teaspoons baking poWder^ 



/' 






1-^ ^ilj 



UG 



B. Y. F. U. COOK BOOK. 



I • 



f 


. ; 


111 


ilfffe 



-!.|.^l 




1' 

a ■ 


1 1 


1 * 




• '1 


ti 



;i 



i 


' 'm' 






1 


1 1' 


1 




li 


1 



# 



Cheese Cake,^ 

Line patty pans with nice puff paste, then put on one 
good teaspoon of preserves, sa^- raspberries, make up a batter 
as for -sponge cake, and drop one spoonful on top of preserves 
then bake.— Miss A. M. Ansley. 

Cornmeal Cake 

Sift one cupful of meal and the same of flour and two 

tablespoonfuls of baking powder all together, and one cup of 

sugar, a little salt and two beaten eggs, one cupful of sweet 

milk, half cup butter, stir all together and bake and you will 

have an excellent 'ohnnie cake. — Miss Alvina Hanna. 

« 

Welcome Cake 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, half cup butter, half cup sour 
cream, one cup chopped raisins, one cup currants, a little lemon 
peel, half a nutmeg, two and a half cups flour, small teaspoon 
soda, two teaspoons cream tarter. — Miss E. T. Ansley. 

Layer Cake 

Two tablespoons hard butter, one cup sugar, beat to a 
good cream, one cup sweet milk, two eggs, two heaping tea- 
spoons baking powder, enough flour to thicken, or about two 
cups, flavor to taste. — Mrs. Spring. 

Pork Cake 

A most delightful cake is made by the use of pork, which 
saves the expense of butter, eggs and milk. It must be tasted 
to be appreciated, and another advantage of it is that you 
can make enough some leisure day to last the season through. 
Fat salt pork, entirely free of lean or rind, chopped so fine as 
to be almost like lard, one pound ; pour half pint of boiling 
water, one pound chopped raisins, seeded ; one quarter pound 
citron, shaved into shreds, two cups sugar, one cup molasses, 
one teaspoon saleratus rubbed fine and put into the molasses, 
mix these all together and stir in sifted flour to make the con- 
sistence of comjnou cake mixture, then stir one ounce each of 
nutmeg and cloves finely grovtid, two ounces of ground cinna- 
mon; be governed about the time of baking it by putting a 
sliver into it, when nothing adhers it is done. It should be 
baked slowly. — Mrs. Ireland. 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



117 



Chocolate Cream Frosting 

White of one egg beaten to a stiff froth, one tablespoon- 
ful cold water, add confectioner's sugar till thick enough to 
sjiread, flavor with vanilla, spread on the cake, grate half a 
cake of chocolate, dissolve it in a bowl over tea kettle, beat 
until smooth, and pour over the cream frosting on the cake. 

— Mrs. Ireland. 

Hamilton Drop Cakes 

Two and a half cups flour, a small piece of butter, one 
cup sweet milk, half cup sugar, one tablespoon of cream tar- 
tar, half teaspoon of soda, a little salt, one egg broken in 
after the rest are put together. Mrs, C* E. Pratt, 

Black Cake 

One cup baking molasses, two cups flour, one teaspoon 
soda in a cup of hot water, stir into, the mixture with the 
yolk of one egg, one tablespoon butter, one teaspoon ginger, 
half Jiteaspoon cinnamon, beat well and fill three jelly tins. 
Icing — Boil half cup sugar with three tablespoons water, pour 
over the beaten white of the egg, flavor and put between the 
layers and on top.— Mrs. J. Calder. 

Nut Cake 

Beat a quarter of a cup of butter to a cream, add gradu- 
ally one cup of sugar, then add the yelks of three eggs and 
a half cup of. milk, stir this in and add one and a half cups 
pastry flour, beat and add the well beaten whites of eggs, 
add a tablespoon of baking powder and beat until smooth, 
pour this into a shallow greased pan, sprinkle over the top 
quickly a half cup o^ chopped almonds, dust with powdered 
sugar, and bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes. When 
the cake is cold cut into squares. — Mrs. Purvis. 

Spice Drops 

/ \ Two eggs well beaten, one cup brown sugar, half cup 
blackstrap, half cup butter, half cup currants, one teaspoon 
cloves, one teaspoon cinnamon, half teaspoon salt, one tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in half cup sour milk, flour enough to 
make a stiff" batter, drop on a buttered pan in spoonfuls far 
enough apart so as to rise separate, bake in a hot oven.— 
Mrs. R. Gervis. 



• 



'^>' 






K 



t 



,'« 


'l* 


ft*"^ 




ir, 


l',:'t 


'i» 


i' 


'■"! 



118 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 




ii :Ui 



Fried Cake 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, two and 
a half tablespoons melted butter, two teaspoons baking powder, 
pinch of salt, beat the eggs light, add the sugar, butter and 
milk, then a little of the flour with the baking powder, add 
enough Hour to roll, do not make them stiff.— Mrs. C. E. Pratt, 

Devil Calce 

Custard Part— A cupful of grated chocolate, a cup of 
brown sugar, half cup of sweet milk, the yolk of one egg, a 
teaspoon vanilla, stir all together in a granite or porcelain 
saucepan, cook slowly and set aside to cool. Cake Part— A 
cupful of brown sugar, two cupfuls of flour, half cup butter, 
half cup sweet milk, two eggs, cream the butter, sugar and 
yolks of eggs, add milk, sifted flour and whites of eggs beaten 
stiff", beat all together, then stir in the custard, lastly add a 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved ;in a little warm water. This 
makes a large loaf tliat keeps indefinitely, and is worth all 
the trouble of making. A more attractive cake, however, is 
made by baking the batter in jelly tins, and putting it together 
with the filling named below. The contrast of black cake and 
snowy filling is beautiful. Very few layer cakes keep more than 
a few days, but this one is improved by being made at least a 
week before it is needed. Filling for Deril Cake— A cupful of 
brown sugar, a cupful of white sugar, a cupful of water, a 
tabkspoonful of vinegar, boil until thick like candy, and stir 
in the beaten whites of two eggs and a quarter of a pound 
of marshmcUows, boil up again and place it on the cake, 
letting each layer of filling cool before putting the cake on top 
of it, or use a collar of stiff" white paper to keep the filling 
from running out. White sugar may be used throughout this 
recipe if preferred.— Mrs. E. C. Banks. 

Prince of Wales Cake 
Dark Part— One cup brown sugar, yolks of three eggs, 
half cup butter, half cup sour milk, one cup raisins seeded and 
chopped, one teaspoon soda dissolved in a little warm water, 
one tablespoonful molasses, one tablespoon each of ground 
cloves and ground nutmeg, two cups flour. White Part- 
Whites of three eggs, half cup each of flour, cornstarch, sweet 
milk and butter, one cup white sugar, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. Arrange in alternate layers with favorite filling. — Mrs. 
S. Armstrong. 




H. Y. I'. U. COCJK BOOK. 



119 



Cornstarch Cake 

Whites of six eggs, one cup butter, two cups of flour, one 
cup of cornstarch, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, 
half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar.— Mrs. Wolfram. 

Easter Buns 

Three cups sweet milk, one cup yeast, flour to make a 
thick batter; set this as a sponge over night. In the morning 
add one cuji of sugar, half cup melted butter, half nutmeg, 
one tablespoonful salt, flour enough to roll out like bi.scuit, 
knead well and set to rise till very light, roll half an inch 
thick, cut into round cakes and lay in rows in a buttered 
baking pan. When they have stood half an hour make a cross 
upon each with a knife, and put instantly into the oven, bake 
to a light brown and brush over with a soft rag dipped in 
the white of an egg beaten up stiff with white sugar.— Mrs. 
James Manson. 

Plum Cake 

Mix thoroughly a quarter of a peck of fine flour well 
dried, with a pound of dry and sifted loaf sugar, three pounds 
of currants washed and very dry, half a pound of raisins 
stoned and chopped, quarter of an ounce of mace and cloves, 
twenty Jamaica peppers, a grated nutmeg, the peel of a lemon 
cut as fine as possible, and half a pound of almonds blanched 
and beaten with orange flower water; melt two pounds of 
butter in a pint and a quarter of cream, but not hot, put to 
a pint sweetfine a glass of rose water, the whites and yolks 
of twelve eggs, beaten apart, and half a pint of good yeast; 
strain this liquid by degrees into the dry ingredients, beating 
them together a full hour, then butter the hoop or pan and 
bake it. As you put the batter in the hoop or pan, throw in 
plenty of citron, lemon and orange candy. If you ice the cake 
take half a pound of double refined sugar, sifted, and put a 
little with the white of an egg, beat it well, and by degrees 
pour in the remainder. Jt must be whisked nearly an hour, 
with the addition of a little orange flower water, but mind 
not to put much. When the cake is done pour the icing over 
it and return to the oven for fifteen minutes. If the oven is 
very warm, keep it near the mouth and the door open, lest 
the color be spoiled.— Mrs. E. Labrash. 



# 



'. !)■ 




12U 



M. V. r. r. COOK HOOK. 



t • !p- u! )l if 



Cream Sponge Cake 

One ciij) siiffar, half cup cream, two c^gs, one cup Hour, 
citlicr hali teaspoon l)aking i)()\v(ler or half teaspoon cream 
tartar and (piarter teaspoon soda, flavor with a few drops of 
essence of lemon. — Mrs. Martin. 

Caramel Cake 

Beat quarter cup butter to a cream, add j,'radually one 
and a half cups su^ar, the yolks of two egK«. 'i"*' gradually 
one cup of water, add two cuijs Hour, beat continuously for 
about Hve minutes, now add two teaspoons of caramel, if 
caramel is verv thick this will be quite sufficient, and if not 
l)erhaps an extra tcaspoonful will be required, add a teaspoon 
of vanilla, and now another half cup of flour, beat again 
thoroughly, a.id then stir in carefully two round teaspoons of 
l)aking powder and the whites of the eggs. Bake this in three 
layers in a moderately quick oven for about twenty minutes. 
While cakes are baking make the filling, but do not put the 
cakes together until both filling and cake are ])erfectly cold. 
Filling for Caramel Cake— Put half a pound of brown sugar 
to one gill of water in { laucepan over the fire, stir until the 
sugar is dissolved, and then boil quietly without stirring until 
the syrup will spin a ^hread from the end of a fork, have 
ready beaten to a stiff froth the whites of two eggs, beat in 
gradually the boiling syrup, and beat continuously until the 
icing is cold, now add half a teaspoon vanilla and two tea- 
spoons caramel. Caram at half a cup granulated sugar 
into an iron or granite sa^ •. stir continuously over a fire 
until the sugar first softens, then melts, and finally becomes 
liquid and throws off intense smoke; it really must burn. 
Have ready a half cup boiling water, remove the saucepan a 
moment from the fire, throw ip the water, stir rapidly, and 
allow to boil until you have a molasses like syrup. Bottle 
and put aside for use. This will keep for months.— Mrs. Martin. 

No. I Cake. 

Cup molasses, yolk of one egg, one tablespoon butter, 
two cups flour, one teaspoon ginger and other spices, one tea- 
spoon baking soda in a teaeupful of boiling water.— Jessie 
McGown. 



% 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



121 



5now Cake 

Hall" eup butter, one and a half cuj)s .sugar, one and a 
half cups flour, one and a half cups sweet milk, whites of 
four eggs, one teaspoon Ijaking powder.— Mrs. R. Ferris. 

Potato Pancakes 

One ])int of buttermilk, one egg, a little salt and soda, 
two cups mashed jKitatoes, and just enough flour to make 
them turn well.— A. Campbell. 

Lunch Cake 

Two cups dough, one and a half cups sugar, half a cup 
butter, one cup raisins, one cup currants, one teaspoon soda, 
two eggs, spices to suit taste.— Mrs. W. McGown. 

Raspberry Cake 

Two eggs, half cup butter, two tablespoons sour milk or 
cream, three-quarters cup sugar, one cup raspberries, either 
preserved or raw, one teaspoon soda, two cups flour.— Mrs. E. 
Wright. 

Johnnie Cake 

Two eggs, one and a ^half cup.s sugar, one and a half 
cups flour, two and a half cups of cornmcal, two cups water, 
butter about "the size of two eggs, rthree teaspoons baking 
powder.— Mrs. John McDougal. 

Angel Food 

Whites of eleven eggs beaten to a stiff" froth, one and a 
half cups sugar sifted twice, one cup flour sifted three times, 
adding one teaspoon cream tartar the third time, half tea- 
spoon extract of almond. Beat the eggs on a large platter, 
and gradually add sugar and flour, keep stirring constantly. 
Use a pan that has never been greased, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven f-^t-ty minutes.— Mrs. C. W. Pickard, Ke^ -^ Bridge. 

Belfast Cake 

Beat half eup butter to a cream, one and a half cups 
sugar, one cup raisins, one egg, mm cup sour milk, two cups 
Graham flour, one-third cup whit^'^aiwf; one teaspoon soda, 
half teaspoon salt, half teaspoon cinnamon, one saltspoon nut- 

niecr. Do nnf flntir rfiisirio 'inrl nii-v in +V.o r^t-Aor m..^^ A.*"—. 

Banks. 




Nf.*: 




122 



H. Y. r. U. COOK BOOK. 



Loaf Cake 

One pound Inittcr ))Ofitcn to a crciun. two pounds su^ar 
roKed fine, three pounds sifted Hour, six well beaten egRs. 
three teaspoonfuls of powdered salcratus dissolved in a little 
hot water, one tahlespoonful ground einnamon and a hall a 
nutmeg grated, add pound eurrants well washed and dried, one 
pound raisins stoned and eut in two; work the whole well 
together, divide it into three loaves, put them in buttered 
basins and bake one hour in a moderate oven.-Mrs. Allard. 

Cream Puffs 
One and a half eups Hour, two-thirds eup butter, half 
pint watet, boil butter and water together and stir in flour 
while boiling; when eool add five well beaten eggs and stir 
well, drop on tins and bake in a quick oven, and when eool 
till with the following :-Onc pint milk, one eup sugar, one and 
a half tablespoons cornstarch, two eggs, beat sugar, eggs and 
starch together, a.id add the n.,lk while boiling, flavor with 
lemon or vanilla.-Mrs. E. C. M •Kinley. 

Econonjy Cake 

One cup sugar, one l^,j, butter the size of an egg, one 
eup buttermilk, one teaspoon soda, two cups flour.-Miss A. 

Hanna. 

Snow Balls 

Two cups of sugar, one cup butter, one eup sweet milk 
three cups flour, thn-c teaspoons baking powder, whites of live 
eggs Bake in dc--. square tins; the day following cut in two- 
inch squares, taking outside off ^o as to leave it all white ; 
take each piece on a fork and frost upon all sides, and roll in 
fresh grated cocoanut; flavor to taste.— A. Campbell. 

riarble Cake 
Dark Part-Yokes of three eggs, one half cupful molasses, 
one and one half cupfuls of sugar, one-third cupful butter, one 
teaspoon soda, salt, one-half teaspoon all kinds spice, one cup- 
ful coffee Light Part-Whites of three eggs, one cupful sugar, 
one half cupful milk, butter size of an egg, one teaspoonful 
cream tarter, one half teaspoonful soda; the batter need not 
be so stiff' as that of the dark portion. Bake slowly m deep 
pans.— Mrs. Geo. Tuck. 



li. V. r ' . L >OK. 1»* OK. 



11.'3 



( aham Cak 

Three cups (iruliam Hour, half cup Uu'i 
milk, one cup sugar, one teaspoon soda, hai 
moderate oven. Good for dyspeptics.— Mrs. t..u. 
S. Hakcry. 

Perfection Cake 



)iie cu| 
meg, 1). 
Kavniou 



ur 
in 
P. 



half 



One and a half cups sugar, half a cup of butter, 
cup milk, two cupfuls flour, whites of six eggs, two and a 
half teaspoons baking powder.— M. L. .\dair. 

Turret Cake 

Cream half a cup of butter with a cup and a half of 
granulated sugar; beat very light the yolks of three eggs and 
add lightly to creamed butter and sugar, then slowly beat 
in half a cup of milk; sift one and one half cups of flour with 
one teaspoon baking powder and £idd to mixture alternately 
with the stiflfly beaten whiles of three eggs. Dissolve six level 
tablespoons grated chocohico in two tablespoons scalded milk, 
and add lastly; bako in a square tin and cover with butter 
frosting. Butter Frosting— Two cups granulated sugar, butter 
size of an egg; three-tjuarters f-up milk, boil fifteen minutes. 
Take from fire, stir in one telispoon vanilla. Beat until it 
thickens, then pour over the cake.— Mrs. Hoppins. 

Fig: Cake 

White Part— One and a half cups white sugar, two cups 
flour, two-thirds cup sweet milk, half, cup butter, one teaspoon 
baking powder, whites of three eggs. Dark Part— One cup 
brown sugar, butter size of a walnut, one cup of flour, one 
cup chopped figs, half cup sweet milk, yolks of three eggs, tea- 
spoon baking powder, bake in layers, the dark between.— Mrs. 
E. T. Henry. 

Dark and Liglit Layer Cake 

One cup of butter, two cups sugar, three and a quarter 
cups flour, half cup sour milk, whites of four eggs, half tea- 
spoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar, separate the mixture, 
add half cup molasses, cloves and cinnamon to taste, raisins, 
half cup flour, three tablespoons sour milk, bake separately in 
layer cake tins, then alternate in layers with frosting.— Mrs. 
A. Bowler, Depot Harbor. 



V 




. 1 


1 . 




. . • 





i\ 




Ml 



m i. ■ill i 

Jill ■ 



124 



M. V, I'. V. COOK HOOK. 



Birthday Cake 

One cup butter, two ciips siij,'(ir, lonr cj^jfs, one ciip milk 
one eiip raisins, one cup curnints. tliree cupfuls Hour, one tea- 
spoon hakinj,' imwder, t)ake in a lar^e (lrippin>,' pun and frost 
heavily; when frostMi^' is partly dry. mark off in small s(piares 
and put halJ" a walnut on each scpiare.— M. Barker. 

Filling fur Cake 

Lemon and Almond iMlling.— Mix juice and j,M'<'at-(I nnd of 
n lemon with one cup of sugar and the slightly beaten volks 
of two eggs, cook in a double boiler, stirring constantly, until 
thick and smooth, then add a cup of blanched' almonds finely 
chopped. Use cold.— Miss N. Spring. 

Orange Cake 

One cup sugar, half cup butter, half cup sweet milk, two 
cups flour, three eggs, two teaspoons baking powder ; flavor 
to taste.— Mrs. |. Harrison. 



miss 

moffatt 

milliner 

Parry 
sound 



We Have THe Stoct 



Beautiful ms 
l)<ind$oiiic Bonnets, Stylisb 
Sailors, Cbe Best Ciimminds, 



E All at low prices. In fact no 

^. other establishment can equal 

the goods at the same price. 



jfvoetinos 



"Molly will stir and I'olly will hake, 

Ami Dolly will have all tlio lilliiigs to make." 

Sl'riOi;.sTi()NS. — lyfuion Juice will wliiLcii ^rostinJ^^ Otie lialF 
tcaspfxm of vincj^ar will IcoL'p it Iroai crackiiiir. Cranberry or 
strawberry will color it pink. Tlic i^r.itcd riad of an orauiie 
strained tliroiij;li a cloth will color ii yellow. 

Chocolate icing: 

Take the white ol' one etjjj; and ;.jr.ito one cake of choco- 
late into it, mix it well with the c^;x< boil half a cup of sugar 
to a thick syniu, then jjoiir on the chocolate and beat till 
thick ciiiMi.uh lo sprciil on cake. — Mrs. II. I". Mcfjnire. 

CirocoLXTic Icim;. Xd. 2. 

Hall' cup -rit.d cliocnln te and good half cup powdered 
.sitg;;r, enou^;'ii w.if r to (Uoisten, mix thoroughly and put on 
cake. — Miss HUa Crichion. 

Ciiocoi.ATi; IciM,, .\'(). 3. 

One-half cake choeohite grated tine, two-thirds cup sugar, 
half cup milk or cream boiled and stirred to a i)aste, take the 
whites of two eggs, one and a half cups powilercfl sugar, .ind 
six large tablespoons of chocolate.— Mrs. Rutledgc. 

CUOCOU.^TK ICINC, X(). 4. 

Break one bar of a cake of chocolate, break -. v ■■ ■■ nr so 
put into a cnp, cover with water, let stand until \\\-ii soared 
through, use a knife to blend it thoroughly, thicken with icing 
"sugar, flavor with vanilla. — Miss Lizzie Taylor. 

Sour Icing 

Use the juice of one lemon strained, and thicken with 
icing siignr; all icing --hould be put on a cake when tlii-.rir.^L^hty 
cold. — Miss Lizzie Tavlor. 






f>^ .: 




i 


il 


n 

• 


1 
■1 


■5I 


i| 


. 1^- 


i'M 



fm m 






rr*? 



!f'3 



126 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



Frosting 

One cup frosting sugar, two tablespoons water, boil to- 
gether, take it off stove and stir in the white of one egg 
beaten to a stiff froth, stir all together well, then frost your 
eake with it, and you will never want a nicer frosting than 
this. — Mrs. J. Eagar. 

Frosting, No. 2. 

Whites of three eggs, two large cups of powdered sugar, 
half a grated cocoanut, juice of half a lemon, add the sugar 
gradually to the whites already beaten to a stiff froth, then 
■the lemon and cocoanut, frost the top of each loaf, make a 
layer cake of it by putting the sheets together. — Mrs. A. 
Thomas. 

White Frosting 

Half cup cream, no more, one cup sugar, a small tea- 
spoon butter, boil till it threads.— Mrs. A. W. Daball. 

Yellow Frosting 

Use the 3'olks of three eggs and twelve tablespoons of 
confectioner's sugar.— Mrs. Herman. 

Frosting Without Eggs 

Take five tablespoons of milk, one cup granulated sugar, 
flavor with lemon or ,'anilla, boil five minutes, beat it hard 
vtntil it is cool enough to spread on the cake. It is ready as 
soon as it is cold. — Miss Theobald. 

Almond Icing 

Kalf pound blanched almonds and sufficient rosewater. 
Directions— Rub the almonds to a smooth paste by adding a 
little rosewater from time to time to moisten sufficient onl3' 
to form the paste, then mix with ordinary boiled icing.— M. L. 
Adair. 

riapie Sugar Frosting 

Make the cake from any white cake recipe, and bake itf 
two or three layers as you prefer, take one coffee cup of maple 
sugar, cut in lumps, one-half cup sweet milk, boil fifteen min- 
utes, stirring occassionally. Five" minutes before taking from 
the fire add a lump of butter about the size of a walnut, stir 
until cold. If too thick add hot water.— Mrs. Thomas. 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



127 



Almond Frosting 

Blanch some sweet almonds, and when cold pound in a 
mortar until pulverized, mix the whites of three eggs and 
three-fourths pint of powdered sugar, flavor with vanilla and 
add the almonds.— Mrs. Rutledge. 

Pineapple 

Take a large cup of cream, whip until very thick, and 
sweeten; put this between the layers. Have the pineapple pre- 
viously prepared by chopping and draining in a colander, (use 
cither fresh or canned fruit), which put on the top of the 
cream, tossing it with a fork; put this on top of the cake, 
throwing the pineapple on it so it will look as if it .stood on 
top of the cream. This should be eaten the day it is made. 
Almonds used in place of the fruit is often preferred. 

Fig or Date Filling 

Half a pound of figs and one cup of raisins steamed un- 
til tender, then chop and sweeten, moisten with hot water 
until like a paste. Use dates in place of the tigs when desired! 

Cream 

Take the white of one egg, an equal amount of water, 

stir in enough powdered or confectionery sugar to make the 

right consistency to spread, use any kind of flavoring. This 

makes a nice chocolate frosting by stirring in one square of 

chocolate melted, and one teaspoon of vanilla, 
t 

Custard 

One-half cup each of sugar and milk, one square of Walter 
Baker & Co.'s chocolate grated, yolks of two eggs, cook all 
together and cool, then add a teaspoon of vanilla.— Mrs. Can- 
field. 

Tutti FruttI Frosting 

Half teacup water, three cups sugar, whites of two eggs, 
boil sugar and water until very thick and waxy, beat the 
whites of eggs to a stiff" froth and pour the syrup over them, 
beating all till cool, then add half a pound blanched almonds 
chopped fine, one small teacup of large white raisins, and a 
little citron .sliced Lbin. Veiy nice for a sponge cake.— Mrs. W. " 
Ireland. 






i 1. ili' ' ;'V; 







128 



15. Y. I*. V. COOK HOOK. 



Caramel Icing 

One find a half cups brown sugar, half cup cream, one 
and a half tablespoons butter, cook to thickness of candy, 
flavor with vanilla, and when nearly cold spread on cake.— 
Mrs. Purvis. 

Icing 

Whites of two eggs, four tablespoons water, two cups of 
sugar, boil sugar and water lor three minutes, take off and 
add beaten whites of eggs and half teaspoon cream of tartar, 
beat till cold and stiff, then add orange juice.-S. M. Westgarth. 

Boiled Icing 

Two cups of granulated sugar, two-thirds cup boiling 
water, boil good ten minutes, beat the whites of two eggs 
while the sugar is boiling, pour the boiling sugar over the eggs 
and beat rapidly until mixed. -Mrs. F. Mallory. 

riarsh riallow 

Three tablespoons gelatine soaked in one cup of cold 
water place on the stove and let remain until it is dissolved, 
strain and add to it one pound of XXXX sugar, beat con- 
stantly for twenty minutes, flavor with vanilla, put m greased 
pan the size smaller than the ones used for baking the cake, 
and set awav to cool. Use any white cake recipe, bake m 
layers and put together with white frosting. Use rose for 
flavoring. Place the marsh mallow for the centre layer. 





B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



129 



COOKS ! ! 



s® 



Good cooking and baking can 
i N only be done when you have the 
proper utensils. 



A New 
....Bermuda 




MOORE'S 

peRlOR UNE* 



or 



riorida 
Cookstove 



&RAN6f5 



Will insure successful bakijig. They are made with cold 
rolled steel oven, which will not crack or warp, have extra 
large feed door and fire box. A guarantee goes with every 
stove. 



UTENSILS — -. 

Our line of kitchen utensils is complete in both tinware and 
graniteware. Can supply almost anything in graniteware. 

CREREAL COOKERS — — kc 

Have you tried these? They are a new article and will 
recommend themselves to the public. 



rCNN'S 



Hardware cin^ 

pi irniti irp ^tnrp 



.-*-',*'/' -...T 



■ ' i*5^-»h*^w«««aiwia»' 



■'BSWfr'JMI*' .^.«fii*-^.A 



130 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



5, ./'^J'' 



««■ 



HEADQUARTERS 
FOR 




...ESTABLISHED 1863... 

THH OLD RELIABLE 



OF- 



....William Beatty 

Will be found well stocked with every 
requisite for the Tourist and Sportsman. 



FRESH GROCERIES 

A complete stock of Fresh Groceries al- 
ways kept on hand. 

Every requisite for the home, from stoves 
and furniture to the finest luxuries. 

— VISITORS ALWAYS WELCOME — 

..William ^eattii.. 

Cor. James and Seguin Sts. PARRY SOUND. 



Cookiee 



"There are iunumerable books of recipes for cooking, but 
unless the cook is master of the principles of her art, and un- 
less she knows the why and the wherefore of its processes, she 
cannot choose a recipe intelligently and execute it successfully." 
— Richard Estcourt. 

Ginger Cookies 

.Two eggs, one cup molasses, one cup brown sugar, one 
teaspoon cream tartar, two teaspoons soda, one tablespoon 
ginger, let stand to rise t\vo hours before mixing in the flour. 
— Mrs. Johnston. 

Ginger Cookies, No. 2. 

One cup sugar, one cup of syrup, two eggs, half a cup 
butter, half cup lard, two teaspoons baking soda, two tea- 
spoons ginger, let rise over night, then mix in the flour and 
roll for the oven. — M. Barker. 

Ginger Cookies, No. 3. » 

Two cups brown sugar, two cups dark baking syrup, 
one cup butter, one cup lard, one cup water, two eggs, one 
tablespoon soda, two teaspoons each cinnamon and allspice, a 
little nutmeg, three tablespoons ginger, melt all together, add 
flour enough to roll out.— Mrs. J. May. 
Ginger Cookies, No. 4. 

One cup, dark sugar, one cup syrup, one half cup butter, 
boil all three ten minutes, let stand until cool, dissolve one tea- 
spoon baking soda in three tablespoons boiling water, one 
tablespoon ginger, flour enough to roll nicely.— Mrs. J. McDougal. 
Ginger Cookies, No. 5. 

Two cups of brown sugar, two cups of syrup, one cup 
of lard, one cup of butter, mix lard and butter and 'rub in 
flour, one teaspoonful soda, one tablespoon of ginger, dissolve 
soda in a little hot wa:ter and mix it with the syrup.— Mrs. 
Kirkbv. 



•»»»m««i«Mi.»H»«;? 



-mMM^: 




132 



B. Y. F. U. COOK BOOK. 



• I', ' 




Cookies 

Three eggs, one eup sugar, one eup butter, one teaspoon 
soda, two teaspoons ercam tartar and a little ginger, mix soft 
and roll thin, bake in a moderate oven.— Mrs. Halliday. 

Cookies, No. 2. 

Two eggs, one cup white sugar, one eup butter, hall' a 
eup sour cream and one teaspoon soda. — Mrs. Lipsconibe. 

Cookies, No. 3. 

Three eggs, two cups brown sugar, half teaspoon of salt, 
one cup lard, (half of this mav be butter, but it does not 
matter, good lard will do), half teaspoon soda dissolved in 
boiling water, add flour enough to roll, do not work much.— 
Miss L. Taylor. 

CooKius No. 4. 

Three eggs, one and one half cups sugar, one cup lard, half 
teaspoonful salt, half teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little boil- 
ing water, flavor to suit taste and add flour enough to mix 
soft, roll thin find bake in a quick oven. — Mrs. W. G. Mc- 
Donald. 

Cookies No. 5. 

Three cups flour, one cup white sugar, one cup butter, two 
eggs,- two teaspoons Pure Gold baking powder, two tablespoons 
water, one-half nutmeg, grated, add some salt; bake in a quick 
oven. — Mrs. Powell. 

Cookies, No. 6. 

One cup lard, one cup brown sugar, spice or flavoring, 
one teaspoon baking powder, scant half teaspoon soda, a little 
more than half a cup sour milk, flour to roll.— Mrs. Mosure. 

Cookies, .No. 7. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, four eggs, four cups of 
flour, four teaspoons baking powder. — Mrs. Beatty. 

Cookies, No. 8. 

Take just enough flour as you would care to use, one or 
two eggs, cup lard, cup currants, two cups sugar, half tea- 
spoon soda, two teaspoons baking powder, a little salt, and 
sour milk enough to mix a good dough, to be rolled out. — 
Mrs. Thomas. 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



1^3 



Cookies No. 9. 

One teacup sugar, three eggs, two-thirds of a cup butter, 
a teaspoon vanilla, two teaspoons baking powder, flour enough 
to roll. — Mrs, M. J. Newburn. 

Cookies No. 10. 

Two eggs, one cup butter, one cup of white sugar, half 
teaspoon baking soda, flour enough to make a stiff dough, roll 
thin and bake in a quick oven. — Mrs. T. Laidlaw. 

Cookies, No. 11. 

Three eggs well beaten, two cups brown sugar, one cup 
butter, one teaspoon vanilla flavoring, half teaspoon soda, two 
tablespoons sweet milk, roll out thin, sprinkle with granulated 
sugar and bake in a hot oven. — Mrs. R. Jarvis. 

Oatmeal Cookies 

Two and a half cups oatmeal, two and a half cups flour, 
three-quarters cup butter or lard, one and a half cups brown 
sugar, a little salt, half cup warm water, one teaspoon soda 
mix with hands and roll thin. — Mrs. Beatty. 

Oatmeal Cookies No. 2. 

Two cups oatmeal, two cups flour, one cup sugar, one 
cup butter, two teaspoons soda, dissolve in suflUcient water to 
make a soft dough, roll thin, bake in a quick oven. — Mrs. D. 
Johnston. 

Caraway Cookies 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, three eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful carawaj' seed, one teaspoon vanilla, five teaspoons rich 
cream, nearly two cups flour and two teaspoons baking powder, 
mix half cup cornstarch and flour to roll them in. — A. 
Campbell. 

Caraway Cookies, No. 2. 

Quarter pound butter, quarter pound sugar, half cup 
water, tablespoon caraway seeds, make stiff enough to roll 
out with flour into which baking powder has been mixed. — 
Mrs. C. E. Pratt. 

Vanilla Cookies 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one-third cup sour milk 
two eggs, one teaspoon soda, vanilla. — Mrs. Purvis. 



*m 




^-x^mmu^smmm . .M r-mmmmmmmmmmma 



,\^V tn-ri ■;■ f 




■ , 



f ' T= 



134 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



Molasses Cookies 

Two and one half cups brown sugar, two cups molasses, 
one cup butter, one half cup milk, two well beaten eggs, tw^ 
teaspoons baking powder, flour to thicken.— Miss P'erguson. 

Scotch Cookies 

Three cups oatmeal, one eup Hour, two teaspoons baking 
powder, one cup sugar, one cup lard and butter mixed, one 
egg or three, just as^you please, a small teaspoon of salt, nix 
nj) with sweet nj^lk, roll thin and bake.— Mrs. M. M. McClellan. 

Soft Cookies 

Two cups sugar, three eggs, nutmeg to flavor, scant cup 
shortening, one cup sour cream, one teaspoon soda, flour to 
drop from spoon. — Mrs. C. E. Pratt. 

Drop Cookies 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup molasses, one 
..jL'up sour milk, four cu])s flour, three eggs, two tablespoons 
ginger, two teaspoons soda, one tablespoon cloves and one of 
cinnamon. — Miss .\dair. 

Rock Cookies 

Foui cups flour, one and a half cups white sugar, one 
cup batter, one egg, two taljlespoons sweet milk, one teaspoon 
cream tartar, half teasi)oon soda, two handfuls currants. — 
Mrs. J. C. Banks. 

Honey Cookies 

One cap sugar, tw'o cups honey, two eggs, three tea- 
s])oons soda, one teaspoon cream tartar, two teaspoons gin- 
ger, flour to stiffen, leave in a cool place over night, bake 
next morning. — Mrs. C. Bovair. 

Oat Cake 

Three cups oatmeal, three cups flour, half cup sugar, one 
cup butter and lard mixed, one teaspoon soda, two of cream 
tartar, one teaspoon salt, half cup sweet milk. 

White Cookies 

Two cups sugar, two eggs, four tablespoons butter, one 
cup sour milk, half teaspoon soda, flour enough to roll out 
nicclv. — Mrs. Canfield. 



Ns ^ 



B. Y. F. U. COOK BOOK. 



135 



Dropped Qinger Cakes 

Two eggs, three-quarters cup sugar, three-quarters cup 
butter, one cup syrup, one hirge tablespoon ginger, one large 
teaspoon soda and four ci.ps flour.— Mrs. F. Halliday. 

Ammonia Cookies 

One cujj butter, two cups white sugar, one cup sweet 
milk, three eggs, one ounce ammonia dissolved in milk.— Mrs 
Slade. 

Cookies 

. Two cups sugar, three quarters cup shortening, two eggs 
beaten, half teaspoon soda, two tablespoons sweet milk, flour 
enough to roll, knead well.— Mrs. R. Gervis. 

Lemon Cookies 

Five cents worth of baking ammonia, five cents worth of 
oil of lemon, two eggs, two cups granulated sugar, one pint 
sweet milk, one cup lard, a little salt, roll thin and bake in 
a quick oven. Do not put in the lemon until you have put 
in a little flour; dissolve the ammonia in the milk.— Miss Sarah 
Farr. 

Simbais 

One cup sugar, half cup each of butter and sweet milk, 
two eggs beaten separately, three teaspoons baking powder, 
mix as soft as you can and bake.— Selected. 

Lemon Biscuits 

Two and a half cups granulated sugar, two cups sweet 
milk, one cup lard, two eggs, five cents worth of oil of lemon, 
five cents worth powdered ammonia.— Mrs. J. Craig. 

Oatmeal Date Wafers 

Two cups oatmeal, two cups flour, one cup white sugar, 
one cup milk, one cup of butter and lard, three teaspoons of 
baking powder, a pinch salt, mix flour, oatmeal, sugar and 
baking powder together and rub in butter and lard, add milk 
and roll very thin, and bake a nice brown. Boil one pound of 
dates and one cup sugar until thoroughly soft, and put be- 
tween cakes; don't cut the cakes too large, use a small bak- 
ing powder tin.— F. Johnston. 



i< *li 



130 



U. Y. P. V. COUK BOOK. 







r- St 



Tea Cakes 

Very small half cup butter, one and a half cups sugar, 
one egg, two-thirds cup sweet milk, three teaspoons baking 
powder, very little nutmeg or lemon extract, stir butli r and 
sugar to a cream, then add other ingredients, not to,, much 
flour, mix very soft, roll out, not too thin, sprinkle over with 
granulated sugar, cut with cake cutter and bake. Thesv are 
very nice.— Mrs. Sinclair. 

Prime Loaf Cake 

Beat half a cup butter and one cup sugar to a cream, 
add three eggs, yolks and white beaten separately, one .tea- 
spoon gi-ated nutmeg, two teaspoons extract lemon, one cup 
sour milk, one teaspoon soda, one and a half cups flour, Ijake 
in a long deep tin to make a loaf shape.— Mrs. W. G. Mc- 
Donald. 

Qinger Snaps 

One pint molasses, one cup butter, a teaspoon each of gin 
ger, cloves and soda, put all over the fire together and let it 
come to a boil, using a large vessel as it is likely to foam over; 
when nearly cool add flour enough to make a stiff" dough, roll 
out and cut into small cakes.— Mrs. J. 

Ginger Snaps, No. 2. 

One cup molasses, one cup brown sugar, one cup of butter, 
one tablespoon ginger, boil all together ten minutes, add one tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in quarter cup hot water, juice of half a 
lemon, stir in flour quickly, as much as possible, and roll thin as 
a wafer, cut and bake in a quick oven.— Mrs. Pratt. 

Ginger Si .ps. No. 3. 

Two cups black .strap, half cup lard, one tablespoon ginger, 
one teaspoon mixed spices, boil syrup and lard, add part of flour, 
spices, and then remainder of flour, roll thin.— Mrs. Dwyer. 

Ginger Snaps, No. 4. 

One large cup butter and lard mixed, one coffee cup sugar, 
one cup molasses, half cup water, one tablespoon ginger, one 
tablespoon cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon soda 
dissolved in hot water, flour for pretty stiff dough, roll out 
rather thinner than sugar cakes, and bake quickly. These ginger 
snaps will keep for weeks if locked up.— Mis. Geo. Tudbopc. 






B. Y. I'. U. COOK "OOK. 



137 



GiNGUK Snai'9, No. 5. 

One pint molasses, one cup of butter, a teaspoon each of 
finger, cloves and soda, put all over the tire together and let it 
come to a boil, using a large vessel as it is likely to foam over ; 
when nearly cool add flour enough to make a stiff dough, roll 
out and cut into small cakes.— Mrs. C. Labrash. 

Drop- Drops 

Half cup butter, two cups sugar, three-fourths cup water, 
half teaspoon soda, two eggs, four cups flour. 

Lemon Biscuits 

Two cups white sugar, two eggs, five cents worth of oil of 
lemon, five cents worth of baking ammonia, two cups sweet 
milk, one cup lard, flour to roll thin, then bake. — Mrs. Badger. 

Lemon Biscuits, No. 2. 

Two and a half cups granulated sugar, two cups sweet 
milk, one cup lard, two eggs, five cents worth of oil of lemon, 
five cents worth baking ammonia. — Mrs. Mosure. 

Lemon Biscuits, .No. 3. 

Three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, two cups lard, five 
cents worth of oil of lemon, five cents worth of baking ammonia, 
salt, one pint new milk, flour enough to make a stiff dough, roll 
out, cut in squares, bake in a moderate oven.— Mrs. Mills. 

Lemon Biscuits, No. 4. 

Two eggs, one cup lard, one and a half cups sugar, five 
cents worth of oil of lemon, five cents worth powdered ammonia, 
two cups warm milk, stiffen with flour, cut in squares and Lake 
in a quick oven. — Mrs. John Harrod. 

Lemon Biscuits, No. 5. 

Five cents worth of oil of lemon, five cents worth baking 
ammonia, whites of three eggs, two and a half cups white sugar, 
one and a quarter cups lard and butter, two cups sweet milk, 
a little salt, mix very stiff with flour, roll thin, bake quicl:ly. — 
Mrs. D. Johnston. 

Lemon Biscuits, No. 6. 

One cup lard or butter, two cups sweet milk, one and a 
half cups granulated sugar, two eggs, five cents worth of baker's 
ammonia, five cents worth oil of lemon; dissolve ammonia in 
miik. — Mis. E. C. McKiulev. 





I*' t' 



- i If I ~ 





138 



I). Y. r. U. COOK iJUOK. 



Lemon Hiscuits, No. 7. 

One cuj) lartl, two fggs, two cups ^'ranulntcd sugnr, five 
cents worth rock ammonia, five cents worth oil of lemon, one 
pint of sweet milk, flour enough to roll out nicely.- Mrs. U. 
Wright. 

Oatmeal Cakes 

Two cups granulated oatmeal, two cups flour, three tea- 
spoons baking i)ow(ler, one cup granulated sugar, half cuj) of 
butter, half cup lard, half teaspoon salt, one cup milk, roll very 
thin and bake in a moderate oven, sandwich with one pound of 
dates stoned, boil till soft and fairly dry, and add one cup brown 
sugar, then let boil for a few minutes. 

Oatmeal Caku. No. 2, 

Two large potatoes, cook and roll them out with the roll- 
ing pin, add a little jnnch of salt, two cups oatmeal, half cup of 
flour, one cup granulated sugar, one egg, (juarter teaspoon soda, 
half cup butter, mix together and cut half inch thick, bake until 
brown. — Mrs. Lawrence. 

Tea Cakes 

Three eggs, one cup brown sugar, one cup butter and lard 
mixed, one teaspoon s<jda, one teaspoon salt, powder the soda 
fine and mix in the eggs, mix up so it will roll out thin, cut into 
cakes and bake in* a cpiick oven.— Mrs. G. Molyneaux. 

Tea Cakes, No. 2. 

Two eggs, two cups flour, one cu]) butter one cup sugar, 
one teaspoon baking powder, a little water, pinch of salt, roll 
out thin, spice to taste.— Mrs. McMorran. 

Tea Cakes, No. 3. 

Four eggs, one cup butter, one cup sugar, one small tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in four teaspoons boiling water, put in a 
few currants or dates chopped fine, flour to make a soft dough, 
roll and scrape top with a fork to make rough, cut ami bake in 
a quick oven.— Mrs. I). Johnston. 

Taffy Tarts 

One and ; half cups brown sugar, half cup water, let it 
come to a boi , when cool stir in two well 'beaten eggs and 
flavor with vanilla; use ordinary pie paste for pattie tins. These 
are lovely.- Mrs. Haskins. 



U. Y. P. U. COOK HOOK. 



130 



Boston Cookies 

One cup butter, one half cup sugar, two cups Hour, one 
cup chopped raisins, one half teaspoon soda dissolved in a little 
warm water, three cfjgs, pinch salt, nutmeg, drop into a well 
buttered pan, t^ntl spread over a little sugar.— Mrs. A. F. Cobb. 

Fruit Cookies 

One egg, one and a half cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, 
half cup sweet milk, two teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, one 
teaspoon grated nutmeg, three tablespoons English currants or 
chopped raisins, salt. 

Qratiam Cookies 

Two cups sugar, one cup each of butter and sour cream, 
two eggs, teaspoon of soda, stir cream, butter and sugar to- 
gether and flavor to taste. 

Drop Ginger Ctke 

One cup each of molasses and sour cream, half cup sugar, 
one egg, one teaspoon ginger and cinnamon, a little salt, 
three rounded cups of flour, drop in spoonfuls in shallow pans 
and bake quickly. 

Rough Cakes 

One and a half cups butter, two cups brown sugar, the 
yolks of three ej^gs and one whole one, fotir large cups flour, two 
pieces of lemi peel, one cup currants, one teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in a 1 poon of water. 

Potato Biscuit 

Two cups mashed potatoes, one teaspoon salt, half pint 
warm water, one quart flour, a small piece of lard, one cup of 
yeast, knead all together and let rise over night, in the morning 
roll out and cut same as biscuits, rise and bake for breakfast.— 
Miss y. M. Barnes. 

Lemon Snaps 

Three cups white sugar, two cups butter, one cup lard; one 
pint sweet milk, five cents worth of pulverized ammonia, five 




u\ 



' ill 







I . irii 




■'^ ', ' 




140 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



Date Qems 

Beat two eggs separately, add one half pint milk to yolks, 
one half cup finely chopped dates, one half cup whole wheat flour, 
tablespoonful melted butter, beat thoroughly, add teaspoonful . 
baking powder, stir in the whites, beat again, bake in gem tms 
twenty minutes.— Mrs. Complin. 

Conversation Tarts 

Make puff paste for bottom of tins, then make a filling for 
two dozen tarts. Two cups golden syrup, one of sugar, four 
eggs, a whole nutmeg grated, one cupful of milk.-Mrs. M. C. 
Thompson. 

Lemon Snaps 

Three cups white sugar, two cups butter, one cup lard, one 
pint sweet milk, fi've cent's worth of ammonia, one dram oil of 
lemon, cut in square blocks and bake in brisk oven until golden 
brown.— Mrs. Geo. Raymond. 

Spanish Bun 

Two cups light brown sugar, half cup butter, three eggs, 
two and one half cups sifted flour, three teaspoons mixed spice, 
one cup sweet milk, three teaspoons baking powder, butter tin 
well.— Mrs. Martin. 

Oatmeal Cookies 

One cup sugar, two-thirds cup butter, one egg, scant half 
cup sour milk, small teaspoon soda, large teaspoon of cinnamon, 
two and one half cups rolled oats, two and one quarter cups of 
flour, knead and roll thin.-Mrs. J. W. Gregory. 

Bran Cakes 

Two cups nice fresh bran, one cup flour, one teaspoon salt, 
one tablespoon butter, one teaspoon soda in enough buttermilk 
to make a soft batter, have your pan greased and drop on pan, 
sprinkle a little sugar on top of the cakes before cooking. These 
are splendid for dyspeptics. Bran tea may also be made by put- 
ting hot water on bran and let stand for a while, then drain off 
and drink. Steamed biscuits are very nice for invalids. Pour hot 
water on biscuits, cover until they swell, put two on a saucer 
with a little sugar and jelly between, and on the top put a little 
creaiii.— Ivirs. D. Johnston. 



B. Y. P.- U. COOK BOOK. 



141 



Molasses Cookies Without Shortening 

One cup of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one egg, two 
tablespoons water, one tablespoon vinegar, one teaspoon each of 
soda and ginger, mix very soft. 

Cream Biscuits 

Rub one pound of fresh butter into one pound of flour, 
make a hole in the centre, into which put half pound powdered 
sugar upon which the rind of a lemon has been rubbed previous 
to pounding, and three whole eggs, mix the eggs well with the 
sugar, and then mix all together, forming a flexible paste, cut 
into round pieces, each nearly as large as a walnut, stamp them 
flat with a butter stamp of the size o'" a crown piece, and bake 
in a quick oven.— Mrs. T. Bate. 

Rocic Calces 

One cup brown sugar, half cup butter, a handful currants, 
two eggs, a little nutmeg, one teaspoon baking powder, one pint 
flour, bake in gem tins in a quick oven.— Mrs. D. F. Macdonald. 

Light Biscuit 

To one quart flour mix thoroughly three teaspoons Pure 
Gold baking powder before using other ingredients, then add 
three-quarters cup lard, half teaspoon salt, mix to a soft dough 
with cold sweet milk or ice water, handling as little as possible, 
bake in a quick oven.— Mrs. C. Gillespie. 





. i 




< ?ii 



M K 



l\ 




142 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 








#^ 

is 

'iy-'/' 
W$ 

ii 

1 



It" it is the best value for 
money you want 



your 



^^€all and see us 



We 



keep abreast of the times. We are head- 
quarters for Staple and Fancy Dry Goods, Groceries, 
Provisions, etc. 

Our Specialties — 



t 



Lumbermen's Supplies, 
Camping Outfits 
and Supplies, 
Fishing Requisites, 
Prospectors' and 
Miners' Outfits, 
Miners' Tools, 
Dynamite, Fuse, 
Batteries, Detonators. 



Mail orders receive 



prompt attention. 
Telephone connection. 



S). W. i^es$ 4& "Ce. 



EAST WARD, 
PARRY SOUND, 



Tmpomrs of Dry 6ood$, 
General mercbatits* 



is 




Dougbnuts 



"There is occasion and cause, why and wherefore in all 
t hnigs. ' '—Shakespeare. 

'^- ,','^V^ "?.^ '^''"'"^ y""*" "^^igh'^or names that settles a ques- 
tion. —Disraeli. ' 

Dougfhnuts 

One cup sugar, one tablespoon melted butter, one cup sweet 
milk one nutmeg, two teaspoons baking powder, flour enough 
to roll out nicely.— Mrs. Cobb. 

DOUGHNUIS, No. 2. 

Mix well together three cups of flour, two teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, half teaspoon salt, one salt spoon of mace, beat one 
i^gg, add to It one half cup sugar, one dessertspoon melted lard 
and half a cup of milk, mix with dry ingredients, cut in rings 
and cook in hot lard.— Mrs. A. J. Whitby. 

Doughnuts, No. 3. 

Two cups sour milk, one cup sugar, three eggs, live table- 
spoons melted butter or lard, a teaspoon cinnamon, a teaspoon 
soda in sour milk, two teaspoons baking powder in the flour 
and just enough flour to roll.— Mrs. M. J. Newbum. 

Doughnuts, No. 4. 

On^ and a half cups sugar, two eggs, two teaspoons melted 
butter, two-thirds cup of buttermilk, two teaspoons cream tar- 

\TnZ' f ' ''''* """^^ ""^'""«' ^""'- ^"°«gl' to roll.-Mrs. 

McClelland. 

Doughnuts, No. 5. 

One-half cupful buttcji<>one cupful of sugar, one and a half 
pints flour one and a half teaspoons baking powder, one eg«r 

one and a half rnn« tnnir ,,«» +„„„„„„_ ^__ , _ . *'*' 

-'■ '^•^"■'poon cBscdce nutmeg. — SieiccLed. 



r-ft^' 



i>Hit^t'Km..:.'j.. 




^vl. 







144 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



Doughnuts, No. 6. 

Two eggs, two cups sugar, two cups of sweet milk, half a 
cup of butter, three teaspoons of baking powder, a pinch of salt 
and flavoring; half of this is enough for a small family.— Mrs. 
Ferguson. 

Doughnuts, No. 7. 

Half cup of butter, one cup sugar, one and a half pints of 
flour, one and a half teaspoons baking powder, one egg, one and 
a half cups milk, one teaspoon essence nutmeg. 

Doughnuts, No. 8. 

One egg, one cup of rich milk, one cup of sugar, three pints 
of flour, three teaspoons baking powder, one teaspoon butter.— 
Mrs. Murdock. 

Doughnuts, No. 9. 

Two eggs, two cups sugar, two cups sweet milk, half cup 
of butter, three teaspoons baking powder, a pinch of salt and 
flavoring; half of this is enough for a small family. 

Doughnuts, No. 10. 

One cup sugar, one tablespoon butter, (any more will soak 
the lard), two eggs, one cup of sweet milk, two teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, flour enough to n.ake a soft dough.— Mrs. Brandy. 

Doughnuts, No. 11. 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, two tablespoons butter, two- 
thirds cup of milk, two teaspoons cream tartar, one teaspoon 
soda, salt and nutmeg, flour enough to roll.— Mrs. Knifton. 

Doughnuts, No. 12. 

One egg, one cup white sugar, one teaspoonful of butter, 
one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoon of soda, two teaspoons of 
cream tartar, mix stiff" with flour, roll and cut.— Miss A. Town- 
sley. 

Doughnuts, No. 13. 

One cup brown sugar, two eggs, two tablespoons of melted 
butter, two-thirds qup sweet milk, two even teaspoons cream 
tartar and one of soda, flour enough to roll, salt and nutmeg, 
fry in not lard. — Mrs. J. A. Jonnston. 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



145 



Doughnuts, No. 14. 

Three eggs, two and a half cups of sweet milk, two cups of 
sugar, two teaspoons of cream tartar, one teaspoon soda, spices 
to taste, roll out and cut in shapes and fry in boiling lard, 
while hot dip in fine sugar. 

Doughnuts, No. 15. 

One cup sugar, two eggs, half cup of shortening, one tea- 
spoon soda, one cup sour milk, cut in rings, have your lard very 
hot, m which place a peeled potato to keep lard from burning, 
and drop in your cakes; they will come to the top of lard when 
light; fry a dark brown; when taken out sprinkle sugar over 
them.— Mrs. Ireland. 

Doughnuts, No. 16. 

One pint of milk, one ti icup of yeast, put yeast in milk 
stir m flour and let it stand over night, in the morning add two 
teacups sugar, one teacup lard, two eggs, one teaspoonful soda 
work m flour and let it rise very light, add nutmeg and cinna- 
mon to suit taste.— Mrs. Careful. 

Doughnuts, No. 17. 

One cup sugar, one cup sour milk, half cup butter, one tea- 
spoon soda, two egg, mix soft, cut in strips, then twist, fry 
light brown and roll in sugar. 






' hi ■■ • 



'r-i''i: 



¥\i. ■• 



ts 



PI 



» 





146 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



The 
BdDnn 



.(D), 



5pex:lal TXttcntlon fliven 
TO Society Suppers. 




THOMHMT 



A full line of fresh Groceries. Meals at all hours. 
Oysters, Fruit and lee Cream in season. 



James St., 



Parry Sound. )/ 






r>. 







o 



Cadies' tailoring 



Is now being done by F. C. KING, 
THE TAILOR. A beautiful stock of goods just 
receiYcd. We still lead, and are known to give the 
best work and the neatest of any merchant tailor in 
town. 

f . €. Ring, Cbe Cailor, 



-<» 



c>iL>c>c»^c>c^>-c>c>c;'«^'C>«>'<^^:..»<J<^<^^.i»<»<J^<><.»<Jr^ 



% 



IPIes 



-^i 






"Small cheer and great welcome make a merry feast.- 
onakespeare." 

"The turnpike road to people's hearts I find lies through 
their mouth, or I mistake mankind."— Dr. Wolcott. 

Chocolate Pie 

One coffee cup of milk, two tablespoons grated chocolate 
three-quarters cup sugar, yolks of three eggs, heat chocolate and 
m.lk together, add the sugar and eggs beaten to a cream, flavor 
wjth vanilla and frost.— Mrs. J. Craig. 

Chocolate Pie, No. 2. 

Four squares of chocolate, one cup granulated sugar, one 
tablespoon butter, four cups sweet milk, yolks of four eggs re- 
serve whites for frosting, two large tablespoons com starch, add 
a little vanilla. Cook the above until thick and pour into the 
crusts which have been previously baked, put the beaten whites 
on top.— Mrs. R. G. Ard. 

Orange Pie 

Grate the yellow peel off two Messina oranges, add the 
juice and pulp, one coffee cup sugar, one egg and yolks of three 
well beaten, add half cup milk and bake in a lower crust Make 
a menngue of the three whites and half a cup of sugar, spread 
over the pie and brown.— Mrs. C. E. Pratt. 

Orange Pie, No. 2. 

Beat to a cream half a cup of sugar with a tablespoonful 
of butter arid the beaten yolks of four eggs, the grated rind and 
juice of two oranges, and then the whites of the eggs beaten 
stiff; ^ikc with one crust.— M-ss E. Gregory. 



148 



B. Y. r. U. COOK BOOK. 



11 i i 



,r>' 



l\l 



Cocoaiiut Pie 

Hair cup butter, one and a half cups of white sugar, yolks 
of four eggs and one whole one, half cup sweet milk, half tea- 
spoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar, two cups flour, bake in 
thin pans. After beating the white to a stiff froth, stir in a cup- 
ful of sugar and a cupful of desicated cocoanut; put this between 
the layers of cake. Frosting improves it.— Mrs. C. E. Pratt. 

Cocoanut Pie. No. 2. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, half a cup of water, half tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in the water, one teaspoon cream tartar, 
one and a half cups flour, a small lump of butter, cream ; half a 
cup of sugar, half cup flour, one egg beaten, stir in the flour and 
sugar, then stir in half a pint of boiling milk and two spoonfuls 
of cocoanut; make a frosting for the outside, sprinkle thickly 
with cocoanut before dry. The pie will be delicious.-Mrs. C. E. 
Pratt. 

Apple Pie 

Pare and slice apples in an earthen pie plate without an 
under crust, season with nutmeg and cinnamon. For a good- 
sized pie put a cup of sugar, add v little water and bits of butter 
on top of it, cover with paste, brushing the top with a little 
cream. This pie can be taken up with a tin or silver shovel to 
look as nice as pie with an under crust, and is much more pal- 
atable. Should the apples be dry. as they often are in the spring 
of the year, dissolve one-quarter tcaspoonful of tartaric acid in 
half a cup of water, and sprinkle over the apples before season- 
ing. This is delicious. 

Apple Pie, No. 2. 

Mix a cup of fine chopped apples with the juice of a lemon, 
a cup of sugar, or less, the yolks of two eggs, bake with an 
under crust of pie paste, beat the whites of the eggs and spread 
over the top, brown delicately.— Mrs. G. Moore. 

Cream Pie 

One cup of sweet cream, three tablespoonfuls sugar, one 
tablespoonful of flour, butter the size of an egg, a little grated 
nutmeg, all creamed together. Bake like a custard, or put strips 
oi ciust across lac lup.— -vaa. x . s^..... ..?-!•• 



B. Y. 1*. U. COOK BOOK. 



14.9 



Cream Pie, No. 2. 

One and a half cups milk to boil, three teaspoons of flour, 
three teaspoons cornstarch, six teaspoons of sugar, three eggs, 
use one and a half for icing, beat all together and pour in the 
boiling milk.— Mrs. Ireland. 

Cream Pie, No. 3. 

For each pie to be baked take two small eggs, half cup of 
sugar, two tablespoons cornstarch, or half flour, one pint milk. 
Directions— Make your crust and have ready baked, pricking 
with a fork to prevent blistering, put the milk on to boil, beat 
the yolks of the eggs, stir the cornstarch in a little cold water 
smoothly, then add sugar and stir all into the boiling milk, and 
continue the heat until the custard is set or thick, then put into 
the baked crust and bake ten or twenty minutes, having beaten 
the whites with one teaspoon of cream or butter and two table- 
spoons of sugar, spread on top and brown nicely in the oven.— 

M. L. Adair. 

Squash Pie 

Two cups of boiled squash, three-fourths teacup of brown 
sugar, three eggs, two tablespoons molasses, tablespoon melted 
butter, one tablespoon of ginger, one teaspoon of cinnamon, two 
teacups of milk, a little salt, make two plate pics. 

Squash Pie, No. 2. 

Stew a medium sized crook-neck, or other equally rich 
squash, and rub the soft part through a colander same as for 
pumpkin pic,, half pound butter, one pint each cream and milk, 
one quart of milk with the cream stirred in, two cups sugar, one 
dozen eggs well beaten, one teaspoon each salt, mace, nutmeg 
and cinnamon, or add seasoning to taste.— Mrs. Hudson. 

Lemon Pie 

Two lemons, grate the outside oflf them, squeeze out the 
juice, add two cups sugar, the yolks of two eggs, four table- 
spoons cornstarch, put in last three cups boiling water, stir well 
before cooking, bake crust separate. This will make three pies.— 
Mrs. Murdock. 

Lemon Pie, No. 2. 

One cup sugar, one lemon, the juice only, two eggs, the 
whites for frosting, one cup of water, one large tablespoon corn- 
starch. Frosting for pie— Two tablespoons of white sugar, the 
whites of two eofsrs. — Mrs= R= Cuitimer. 




I i' 





^ ^ 


■ 




i 


• ( 


„ 


t 

1 




» ' 







i .[ 


. ' ^- 


1 '■ 




f 'j. 


(_ 


1 ' 




it Jj 


^'>L . 


;^r -.i , 


' W rV' 




jjlr' 


',;:?: )■ 


t*i' '■' 


i-i 


« 


a ■'' 


'fmM . 


1 11^-^ ■; 


M 


M< 


fiP' 






'• i 


'ndi&& 


' { 


[ISffiH 


"• f 


tSB^^w^r. , 


I 


ii'I 






" ' s SB 


W- a%^ *r^' 


:ilM. 


:'|l^i 


III 


jyBppf:^ 


^;l« 


f W il'^ 


1 


n' IB^ )i<i-\'- 


KlranM 


lip 



IfiO 



H. Y. I'. I!. COOK UOOK. 



Lkmon Pik, No. 'A. 

One lemon gnited, one eup wliite su^ar, lour e>;gs, save 
whites of two for ieinj,' for top, lump of butter size of a nutmeg;, 
one large tablespoon eornstareh and flour mixed, stirred smooth 
in a little eold water, then fdl eiij) with i)()iling water and stir 
:dl together.— Mrs. j. A. Johnston. 

Lk.mo.n I'm;, No. 4. 

Three eggs, one great spoonful of butter, three-(pmrtcrs 
eup white sugar, juiee and grated peel of one lemon, one large 
apple peeled and grated, bake in open shiil- of paste, ercam the 
butter and sugar, stir in the beaten yolks and lemon and bake; 
bent the whites to a stiff' meringue with three tabk-spoonfuls of 
powdered sugar and a little rosewater. When the pies are done 
take from the oven just Icng enough to spread the meringue over 
the top, and set baek for three minutes. This mixture is enough 
for two small or one good sized pie.— Mrs. Geo. Tudhope. 

Lkmo.n I'ii:, No. a. 

One lemon rind and juiee, one eup sugar, one eup water, 
one tablespoon corn stareb eookcd in the water till thiek, three 
eggs, two of whites saved for frosting with half cup of sugar.— 
Mrs. j. Biethour. 

Lemon Pik, No. (5. 

Yolks of two eggs, juice of one lemon, one cup of sugar, 
three tablespoons corn starch in a cup of hot water, one table- 
sjjoon butter, mix all together, put in your pie and cook. When 
done beat the whites of your eggs with a little sugar, and put 
on top.— Mrs. D. Johnston. 

Lemo.n Pik, No. 7. 

One lemon rind and juice, three eggs, the whites of two 
kept for icing, one cup of sugar, half cup eold water, a small 
piece of butter, one tablespoon cornstarch, boil till thick. Icing- 
Heat the whites of the eggs to a stiff" froth, add a tables))oonful 
of white sugar, put on i)ie when cold. 

Lemon Pie, No. 8. 

One lemon rind and juice, one eup sugar, one eup water, 
one tablespoon cornstarch, yolks of two eggs, save the whites 
for top, put water on to boil, stir rest together and stir in the 
boiling water uiiLil well cooked.— Miss A. Prentice, 



M. Y. 1'. U. COOK BOOK. 



181 



Lkmon I'ik N(i. 9 

One cup of wdlcr, tlirtc-(iuartfis cup of sugar, juice of one 
lemon, boil together, add a tablespoon of cornstarch mixed in 
water, jitul when boiled thick remove from the stove for a few 
minutes, then add the yolk of one egg, beat the white with one 
tcasjjoon of sugar for frosting. Make pic ])astc of equal (juanti- 
ties of lard and butter, line pic plate and bake before putting in 
tilling, spread on frosting, brown lightly.— Mrs. Gillespie. 

Lemo.n I'ik, No. 10. 

Grate one whole lemon, rind and all, and to the pulp add 
the juice of another lemon, add one cup granulated sugar, one 
cup water, one heaping tablespoonful of cornstarch, the yolks of 
two eggs, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, boil fifteen min- 
utes in a doul)le saucepan, stirring constantly. Have shells of 
good pastry ready leaked and fill with above. Fc- meringue take 
whites of three eggs, beat to a stiff froth and add one teaspoon- 
ful of white sugar. May be baked if desired in a hot oven two 
or three minutes.— Mrs. S. Armstrong. 

riock Duck Pie 

One egg, three or four small crackers, half cup of molasses, 
half cup sugar, half cup vinegar, half cup strong tea, one cup 
chopped raisins, small piece butter, spice and salt.— Mrs. Maxwell. 

Mince Meat 

Three pounds cooked lean beef, two pounds beef suet, five 
pounds of apples, two pounds currants, three pounds of raisins, 
one pound citron, three pounds sugar, one heaping teaspoon cin- 
namon, same of ginger and nutmeg, half teaspoon cloves, half 
teaspoon each mace and allspice, level teaspoon salt, juice of two 
lemons, one pint water in which fresh peel of two lemons has been 
boiled for three minutes, and into which has been stirred one 
tumbler of currants or gooseberry jelly, and as much cider as is 
needed to make the mince meat sufficiently juicy; the meat, suet, 
apples and raisins must be chopped as fine as possible, and the 
citron to be cut into small thin bits. All particles of skin and 
gristle must be carefully removed from the beet and -net. The 
suet especially must be minced to a powder. To insi, the spices 
being evenly distributed mix them with the dry sugar, then mix 
mea' and sugar together before adding the rest of the ingredients. 
Mix all together thoroughly and set over the fire until heated 
thro'4gh.— Mrs. R. J. Lee. 




I< iU 



I 





1A2 



B. Y. V. U. COOK HOOK. 



Potato Pie 

Take uboul llirec pmiiuls lean meat aiitl l)()il until tender 
with two l.-ii-Ke onions, take potatoes and hoil nntil done, then 
mash them and put in the dish with tlie meat and K>-avy. season 
to taste. Make a niee upper pastry, put in oven till n.ccly 
browned, serve hot.— Mrs. llatl. 

Tomato Pie 

Line a pie plate with rieh Hakinj,' erust, not too thin, fill 
with verv thin sliees of tomatoes, add plenty of su>,'ar, not less 
than three tahlespoonfuls. a lump of butter the size of a nut, 
spiee with nutmeg and einnamon. eut several slits m the upper 
erust, bake three-quarters of an hour, serve eold.-Miss Hames. 

Custard Pie 

One (juart of milk, three eg^'s, one tablespoon of cornslareh. 
one dessertspocmtul of extraet vanilla, our eup sugar, a i)mch of 
salt beat the eggs and sugar together, mix the corn starch m a 
little of the milk, and ^tir all well together and bake.-A. Town- 
sley. 

Khubarb Pie 

Pour boiling water over two teacupluls of rhubarlj, draui 
off the water after four i)r five minutes and mix with the rhu- 
barb, a teacup of sugar, the yolk of an egg. a piece of butter 
and a tablespoon of fiour. Bake with bottom crust only, mix 
the white of the egg with three tablespoons of sugar, return to 
oven to brown.— Mrs. J. H. 

Raisin Pie 

Boil one pound raisins an hour, cover with water, add one 
lemon, one cup of white sugar, two tablespoons flour. This is 
enough for three pies.— Mrs. T. A. Clark. 

Raised Pie 

Prepare the dough as for short cake, divide in two portions, 
spread on the tin, and cover with a layer of easy-cooking tart 
apples sliced in eighths, put two or three tcaspoonfuls of rather 
thick sweet cream over the apples, and cover with the top crust, 
let the crusts rise until very light and bake. Peaches may be 
useii ill the same nianni;r. -Mrs. Cobb. 



n Y. V. V. COUK HOOK.. 



163 



Cherry Pie 

Line ilic dish with u ^ootl crust and fill wui ripe cherries, 
reguUitinjj the (|uantity of sugar you scatter over tbem by their 
HwcetnesH, cover and bake. Ent cokl, witli white sugar sifted 
over the top.— Mrs. .\llurd. 

Cranberry Pie 

For one hirge pie place in an earthen or graniti ware sauce- 
pan a (puirt of cranberries that have been cirefully examined and 
washed, and add two cupfuls of coh! w ler. I'lace the berries on 
the fire, and let them cook uninterruptedly for ten minutes by 
the clock from the time they begin to boil, then add one and a 
half cujjs of sugar and boil ten minutes longer, place at once in 
a pastry lined pie ^ilate and bake twenty minutes. If the oven is 
very hot fifteen minutes will suthcc to bake the irust; the fruit, 
of course, does not re(|uirc more cool •';?n:. The sauce may be 
ornamented on top with strips or bits of crust, as this pie is in- 
cluded in the list of tarts. The crust shouiil be in readiness to 
receive the sauce as soon as it is done, for the latter will con- 
geal if allowed to cool. The method just described is also highly 
approved for stewing cranberries for the taole. The skins become 
l)erfectly tender when boiled in this way, which is a great ad- 
vantage, since they contain the highest flavor an' best proper- 
ties of the berries, and should not be strained oul unless they 
have ben made tough by improper cooking. If very sour or very 
sweet sauce or pies are preferred, half cuj) of sugar may be added 
to or omitted from the above recipe as the case requires. 

Boston Cream Pie 

Cream Part— Put one pint of milk on to boil, beat two 
eggs, add one-quarter cup sugar, small half cup of flour or corn- 
starch previously mixed, bt it well and stir into milk just when 
it commences to boil, add one ounce of butter and a pinch of 
salt, and keep stirring until it thickens, flavor with lemon or 
vanilla. Crust Part— Three eggs beaten separately, a cup of 
granulated sugar, a pinch of salt, one and a half cups of sifted 
flour, large teaspoon of baking powder and two tablespoons of 
milk or water, divide the batter in half and bake on pie tins until 
a str.iw color, when done and cool split each one in half and 
spread half the cream between each, serve cold.— Mrs. Charles 
Curric- 




1^ 



r s 



i 






I', 



,;> 'i 



H 



«l 



X 




154 



B. y. p. U. COOK BOOK. 



Mince Heat 

Six pounds lean fresh beef boiled tender, when eold chop 
fine, one pound beef suet chopped fine, eight pounds apples, two 
pounds raisins seeded and chopped, two pounds currants chopped,, 
two, tablespoons cinnamon, one tablespoon grated nutmeg, one 
tablespoon ground cloves, one tablespoon ground allspice, one table- 
spoon salt, four pounds brown sugar and liquor the meat is boiled 
in. Keep in a stone jar tied over with double paper. Should be 
made at least one day before it is hitcnded to be used.-Mrs. S. 
Armstrong. 

Pumpkin Pie 

One quart pumpkin stewed and strained, one (luart mlik, 
one cup of sugar, seven eggs beaten light, one teaspoon ginger, 
the same of mace and cinnamon.— Mrs. Charles Currie. 

PuMi'KiN Pie, No. 2. 

Mix one cupful each of milk and dry, steamed and sifted 
pumpkin, half a cupful of sugar, two tablespoons each molasses 
and melted butter, one tablespoonful of ginger, two eggs lightly 
beaten, one teaspoon of cinnamon, and a half teaspoon of salt, 
pour into a pastry lined plate and bake in a moderate oven for 
forty-five minutes. When cold slip from this plate to a decorated 
one.— Mrs. Ireland. 

Peach Pie 

Select peaches, wash and place them in a deep pie plate 
lined with paste, strew a thick layer of sugar over each of the 
peaches, adding a spoonful of water and a sprinkling of flour over 
top of each layer, cover with a thick crust and bake for one hour. 

Meat Pie 

Two cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking jjowder, two table- 
spoons butter or lard, milk oV cold water, sift the Qour and bak- 
ing powder together, work in butter with a spoon. If lard is 
used a little salt will be needed. Use enough milk or water to 
make a dough stiff enough to roll out, line a buttered baking 
dish with part of this dough rolled into a thin sheet, fill it with 
the meat cut into small pieces, pour over it a cup of thickened 
gravy and put on the top crust, bake half an hour in a hot* 
oven.— Mrs. F. Halliday. 




B. Y. F. U. COOK BOOK. 



155 



Pie 

Line a pie plate with rich flaking crust, not too thin, fill 
with very thin slices of tomato, add plenty of sugar, not less than 
three tablespoons, a lump of butter the size of a nut, spice with 
nutmeg and cinnamon, cut several slits in the upper crust, bake 
three-quarters of an hour, serve cold.— Miss Haines. 

Egg Cherry Pie 

Make in a deep dish with crust on top and sides, stone 
three pints of cherries and pour over them this mixture: One cup 
white sugar, two eggs well beaten, one tablespoonful of butter 
and two tablespoonful s of flour, mix well and pour in a bake 
dish.— Miss Ferguson. 

Ripe Currant Pie 

Heat and mash through a collander one large cup of ripe cur- 
rants, add to it one cup full of sugar, one tablespoon corn starch 
yolks of tw.» eggs, three tablespoons water. Bake and frost 
with the beaten whites of the eggs and ten tablespoons of sugar. 
—Mrs. C. E. Pratt. 

Delicate Pie 

One ( ) white sugar, one cup cold water, the whites of two 
eggs, four tablespoons sweet cream, one large spoonful of flour, 
flavor the lemon. Line the pie plate with pastry, pour in the 
mixture and bake at once.— Mrs. P. Harrison. 

Chicken Pot Pie 

Cover jointed chickens with water and boil them, if tender, 
half an hour before putting in the crust. Skim thoroughly, add 
one tablespoonful of flour stirred into one of butter and season 
with pepper and salt. A few bits of pork cut thin is an im- 
provement. Make the crust like baking powder biscuit with the 
addition of a little butter, cut in pieces and drop in. If a potato 
crust is preferred, boil and ma,sh six small potatoes and one egg, 
one tea-cupful of milk, one tablespoon butter, one teaspoon saj^, 
and flour enough to make it roll out easily; keep kettle cloSbd 
to prevent the crust from becoming heavy. A better way is to 
put the crust in the steamer and steam it; it is then sure to be 
light ; thtn the chicken and gravy can be poured over it.— Mrs. 



« 





I . •' ') 



•H) 



m 



s 



A 





156 



B. Y. P. U^ COOK BOOK. 



Mock JWince PJe 



One egg, three or four large crackers or six or eight small 
ones, one half cup molasses, one half cup of sugar, one half cup 
vinegar, one half cup strong tea, one half cup raisins, a small 
piece of butter, a little salt.— Mrs. Richmond. 

• Pumpkin Pie 

One heaping pint of stewed pumpkin, six eggs, six tablespoons 
flour, butter size of an egg, one and one half cups sugar, two 
level teaspoonfuls cinnamon, half teaspoonful ginger, half a grated 
nutmeg. Rub the pumpkin through a coUander adding the but- 
ter, sugar and spices, and make hot, then the beaten eggs and 
flour; mix smoothly together and while hot put into the dish, 
having a thick crust to receive it, and bake in a modercite oven. 
Remarks— This makes a thick salvy pie, very nice. If fearful of a 
soggy crust, bake it before putting in the pie mixture. If a pint 
of milk be added it would be more like the old fashioned pump- 
kin custard pie, softer and not quite so rich, unless an additional 
egg or two with an extra cup of sugar is put in. If milk is 
plentiful and pumpkin scarce, take this latter plan.— M. Barker. 

Boston Cream Pie 

Cream Part— Put cme pint of milk on to boil, beat tvv;o eggs, 
add one quarter cup sugar, small half cup flour or cornstarch, 
previously mixed, beat well and stir into milk just when it com- 
mences to boil, add one oz. butter and a pinch of salt and keep 
stirring until it thickens; flavor with lemon or vanilla. Crust 
part.— Three eggs beaten separately, a cup of granulated sugar, 
a pinch of salt, one and one half cups sifted flour, large teaspoon 
baking powder and two tablespoons of milk or water. Divide 
the batter in half and bake on pie tins until a straw color; when 
done and cool, split each one in half and spread half the cream 
between each; serve cold. 

Jelly Pie 

One cup jelly, one cup sugar, half cup butter, four eggs ; this 
will make two pies.— Mrs. Banks. 

Lemon Pie 

Filling— Juice of one \em< ., yolks of three eggs, one scant cup 
sugar, one tablespoon flour or cornstarch, one cup milk; beat 
whites (li eggs fur tilc top. 



.*^ 



H. Y. P. I). COOK BOOK. 



157 



;ht small 

half cup 

, a small 



blespooiis 
igar, two 
f a grated 
5 the but- 
eggs and 

the dish, 
rate oven. 
:arful of a 

If a pint 
led pump- 
additional 
If milk is 

Barker. 



5quash Pie 

Stew a medium sized crook-neck ( or other equally rich ) 
.squash, and rub the soft part through a coliander, same as for a 
pumpkin pie, half pound butter, one pint cream and milk", or one 
quart milk with the cream stirred in, two cups sugar, one dozen 
eggs well beaten, salt, mace, nutmeg and cinnamon, one teaspoon 
each, or add seasoning to taste.— Mrs. Hudson. 

Economy in Squasli Pie 

One tablespoonful corn starch will take the place of eggs in 
squash pie. If the recipe calls for four eggs put in two, and two 
tablespoons of cornstarch. — Mrs. Purvis. 

Pie Plant Pie 

One cup stewed pie plant, one cup sugar, one tablespoon flour, 
yolk of one egg. flavor with lemon, bcf t all together thorough- 
ly. Don't u.se pie plant too hot for fear it will cook the egg ; 
bake with just an under crust, and use white of an egg for frost- 
ing. — Mrs. H. A. Johnston. 



t,w(o eggs, 
ornstarch, 
sn it com- 
; and keep 
a. Crust 
ted sugar, 
• teaspoon 
Divide 
)lor; when 
the cream 



eggs; this 



scant cup 
nilk ; beat 



muskoka navigation €o... 






f 



Daily Steamers 

From Rosseau during- season of navigation. 

"; '-Weekly Steamers 

rom Port Cockhurn during Spring and Fall. 

Twice Daily 

From Port Cockhurn during Tourist Season. 



Connection with Georgian Bay at Parry Sound bj- stage and 
rail via Maple Lake. Upwards of fifty hotels and boarding 
houses along the Muskoka Lakes. 



A. P. OOCKBUHN. 

Manager and Secretary. 




I 



/-■f i., 



. M^ 



' J 






I- f 



pubbings 



'H 



3 



m 



r 




A woman cannot work at dressmaking, tailoring, or any 
other sedentary employment ten hours a day, year in and year 
out, without enfeebling her constitution, impairing her eyesight 
or bringing on a complication of complaints ; but she can sweep, 
cook, wash and do the duties of a well-ordered house with modern 
arrangements, and grow healthier every year. The times in New 
England when all women did housework a part of every day, 
were the times when all women were healthy— Harriet Beecher 
Howe. 

5uet Pudding 

One cup of suet chopped fine, one cup raisins, stoned, one cup 
currants, one cup molasses, one egg, four cups flour, one cup sour 
milk, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon ground cloves, one tea- 
spoon cinnamon, a teaspoon salt, steam three hourr.. — Mrs. J. 
Moffatt. 

Prune Pudding 

Moisten rather thin slices of stale bread in hot milk, place 
in a pudding dish with alternate layers of stewed prunes from 
which the stones have been removed, finish with bread on top. 
Pour over the whole a little more hot milk or pure juice or both 
and bake in a moderate oven three-fourths of an hour. Serve hot 
or cold with orange or lemon sauce.— Mrs. A. F. Cobb. 

Apple Sago Pudding, Cheap 

Take one cup sago, soak over night, then put it over stove 
in one small quart of water and a little salt, let boil till clear, 
and be careful not to let it burn or stick to bottom of the dish. 
When clear mix into it one cup and a half of sugar and one good 
pint of sliced apples and bake in a good hot oven half an hour ; 
Serve with cream or milk.— Selected. 



U. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



159 



Rice and Tapioca Pudding 

Soak one half cup tapioca overnight in a cup of water; 
in the morning drain off any water that remains ; add to the 
tapioca half a cup of rice, one cup sugar, one cup raisins and 
eight cups new milk with a little grated lemon rind for flavoring. 
Put all in an earthen pudding dish on top of the range where it 
will heat very gradually to a boiling point, stirring frequently; 
when the milk boils put the pudding: in the oven and bake till 
the rice grains are i)erfectly tender, but not broken and mushy, 
from twenty minutes to half an hour is usually sufficient. When 
taken from the oven it will appear ;uite thin, but after cooling 
will be of a delicious consistency. Serve c )ld.— Selected. 

Bckled Bread Pudding 

Put to soak in cold water as many dry bread crumbs as 
will make a quart when water is pressed out. Take about half 
a pound of suet chopjied fine, a quart of flour, two teaspoons of 
l>aking powder mixed in suet and flour; add four eggs, one cup 
brown sugar, half cup molasses, a small piece of butter, one cup 
raisins, one cup currants, one nutmeg, a pinch of salt, a cup of 
water; add bread crumbs, make all as thick as can be stirred, 
take pudding bag, scald it well, flour the inside, put in pudding 
and let boil two hours.— Mrs. George Kelly. 

Carrot Pudding 

Half pound stoned raisins, half pound currants, half pound 
suet, quarter pound mixed peel, half teaspoon each of cinnamon, 
cloves and ground nutmeg, half pound moist sugar, two eggs, a 
heaping cup grated bread crumbs, same of flour, one and a half 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, one of salt, and a good sized carrot 
grated ; mix well, and boil or steam four hours.— Miss Higginson, 

Snow Pudding 

One cup boiling water, one dessertspoon corn starch, pinch 
salt, two tablespoons whjte sugar, let cook until well done, beat 
the whites of three eggs to a stiff" froth, add to the hot starch 
mixture, set in .-i coo' place, flavor both with vanilla. Make 
boiled custard of the yolks, pour over the pudding before bring- 
ing to the ta))le.— Miss L. Tavlor. 




160 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 









- !4 > ^ '^- 



liii. 




Lemon Tapioca Pudding 



Four tablespoons of tapioca st)aked over night in 
a cupful of water, add one cupful of water in the morning, the 
rind of two lemons, and boil until clear. Take out the rind, add 
the juice of the lemons, a teaspoon of lemon extract, a cupful 
each of sugar and boiling water, a pinch of salt, and boil ; mould 
and serve with cream and «ogar.— Mrs. E. Shropshire. 

Appla Sajfo Puddirp 

One cuj) .sago in a ijuot i of tepid water with a pinch of salt 
soaked for one hour, mx o. eight app^? pared and cored or 
((uartered and steamed (nii.-r. and ,)ut '^ •■ n pudding dish, boil, 
stir the sfgo Uiir.il clear, adding water n^jvil thin, and pour it 
over the apples; tbis is good hot with butter and sugar, or cold 
with cr< itm and sugar.— Mrs. vValkinshaw. 

Plu.'«i Pudding: 

Two pnnnds flour, one pound raisins, one pound currants, 
one pound suet, hair peel, one w two ciETgs, one nutmeg or all- 
spice; boil seven or tij-jht hi u.s. -George Raymond. 

Plum Pudding No. 2 

One cup suet chopped very fine, one cup sweet milk, one 
cup molasses, one cup brown sugar, one cup currants, two and 
one half cups stoned raisins, five cups flour, two eggs, one tea- 
spoon cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon soda; boil 
three hours.— Mrs. U Harris. 

Plum Pudding No. 3 

One half pound ciKrants, one pound riisins, one half pound 
beef suet, two tablespoons butter, five eggs, one grated nutmeg, 
two teaspoons lemon, one cup molasses, three fourths pint milk, 
a little salt, flour sufficient to stiffen; mix well together, put into 
a bowl and boil four hours; cover bowl with a cloth.— Mrs. 
T. Haystead. 

I'lum Pudding No. 4 

Beat together half cup sugar, two eggs and one teaspoon 
butter; add three pints of sweet milk, a little salt, six crackers 
rolled fine, one cup raisins and a half sheet gelatine dissolved in 
a little water; season with nutmeg; bake in a pudding dish.— 
Mrs. H. O'Grady. 



? ' ■' i 



B. Y. P. U. COOK HOOK. 



ir.i 



Plum Pudding No. 5 

One cup suet, one cup sweet milk, one cup molasses, ^one 
cup sugar, one cup currants, two and one half cups raisins, four 
cups flour, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, one tea- 
si)ooii allspice, one teaspoon soda ; boil three hours. — Mrs. 
Knifton. 
Plum Pudding No. 6 

One and one half cups of suet, one and one half cups bread 
cruml)s, fine, one and one half cups sugar, two cups raisins, two 
cups currants, quarter pound mixed peel, one teaspoon each of 
salt, ginger, cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, one cup flour, one tea- 
spoon soda, three eggs, enough milk to make soft batter ; steam 
or boil four hours. — Mrs. B. Slade. 

Steamed Pudding: 

One pint sour milk, three eggs, one cup suet, one teaspoon 
baking powder, a pinch of salt, a little vinegar, flour to make a 
thick batter.— Miss Beatt}'. ♦ 

Steam Pudding No. 2 

Half teaspoon soda, one cup sour cream, three cups flour, 
one cup raisins, one cup currants, four eggs, a little spice, steam 
two hours. — Mrs. Yates. 

Cream Tapioca Pudding 

Soak three tahlespo(ms tapioca in water over night, put 
the tapioca into a quart of boiling milk and boil half an hour ; 
beat the yolks of four eggs with a cup of sugar, add three table- 
spoons of prepared cocoanut, stir in and let boil ten minutes 
longer, pour into a pudding dish, beat the whites of the four 
eggs to a stiff" froth, stir in a tablespoon of sugar, put this over 
the top and sprinkle cocoanut over the top and brown for five 
minutes. — Mrs. C. Labrash. 

Cream Tapioca Pudding No. 2 

Soak three tablespoons of tapioca in water over night, put 
the tapioca into a quart of boiling milk, and boil half an hour, 
beat the yolks of four eggs with a cup of sugar, add three table- 
spoons of prepared cocoanut, stir in and boil ten minutes longer, 
pour into pudding dish, beat the whites of the four eggs to a stiff 
froth, stir in three tablespoons of sugar; put this over the top 
and sprinkle cocoanut over the top, then brown for five minutes. 
— Mrs. E. J. Vincent. 







1 '''ii 



, •:*'■■■ 

I ,,5 






*" 



.', ' III ir'' . 



162 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



Orange Pudding 

Peel and cut in bits five oranges, rejecting the seeds, sprinkle 
a cup of sugar over it, boil a pint of milk, to which add the yolks 
of three eggs well beaten with one tablespoonful of cornstarch, 
when it thickens pour it over the fruit, beat the whites of eggs 
with a tablespoonful of white sugar, frost the pudding and brown 
it in the oven. Substitute strawberries or peaches if you like— 
A. Campbell. 
Okange Pi'nui.NO, No. 2. 

Three oranges, two eggs, two tablespoons cornstarch, one 
l)int sweet milk; cook the cornstarch, eggs and milk, and stir in 
the oranges sliced and sweetened to taste, stand in the oven for 
a few minutts; may put icing of whites of eggs beaten and sweet- 
ened a little over the top. • 

OR.V.NGE PlDDING, No. 3. 

Peel and cut three sweet oranges into thin slices, taking out 
the seeds, pour over this a coffee cup of white sugar, let a pint 
of milk get boiling hot by setting it on a pot of boiling water, 
add yolks of three eggs well beaten, one tablespoon cornstarch 
made smooth with a little cold milk, stir all the time, as soon as 
thickened pour over the fruit, beat the whites to a stiff froth, 
adding a tablespoon of sugar, and spread over the top, set it in 
the oven for a few minutes, eat cold or hot.— Mrs. McMorran. 

Orange Pudding, No. 4. 

Grate the rind of a Seville orange, add to it six ounces of 
fresh butter, six or eight ounces of lump sugar pounded, beat all 
in a marble mortar, and add as you do it the whole of eight eggs 
well beaten and strained, .scrape a raw apple and mix with the 
rest, put a paste and the bottom and sides of the dish and over 
the orange mixture, put cross bars of pa-te; half an hour will 
bake it.— Mrs. E. Labrash. 

Orange Pudding. No. 5. 

. Peel and slice five sweet oranges into thin slices, taking out 
seeds, pour over them a cu'Tee cup of white sugar, let a pint of 
milk get boiling hot by setting it in a pot of boiling water, add 
the yolks of three eggs well beaten, one tablespoon of cornstarch 
made smooth with a little cold milk, stir all the time, as soon as 
thick pour over the fruit, frost top with the whites of the eggs 
with tablespoon of sugar added, set in oven to harden; berries 
or peaches may be substituted for oranges.— Mrs. Utandy. 



i ; ' 



». Y. r. l". COOK IKM^K. 



163 



Okange Pudding, No. (5. 

Peel and eut five good" onmges into thin slices, taking out 
all seeds, put over them a coflec euj) of fine white sugar, let a 
pint of milk get boiling hot by setting it in hot water, add yolks 
of three eggs well beaten, one tablespoon of cornstarch made 
smooth in a little cold milk, stir all the time, and when thick 
pour over the fruit, beat the whites stiff, add a tablespoon of 
sugar and spread on top, set in the oven a minute to harden, 
can be eaten hot but is best cold.— Mrs. O'Gorman. 

Fig Pudding 

One cup sugar, one cup chopped figs, one cup bread crumbs, 
one egg, one cup sweet milk, one tablespoon of butter, one tea- 
s])oon of baking powder and Hour to thicken, steam one and a 
half hours.— Mrs. E. C. McKinley. 

Fig Pudding, No. 2. 

Half pound of figs, one and a quarter pounds grated bread, 
two and a half ounces jjowdered sugar, three ounces butter, two 
eggs, one cup milk ; chop figs small and mix finst v/tth the water, 
then add all the ingredients by degrees, butt.T a mold, sprinkle 
with bread crumbs, cover tight and boil three hours.— Mrs. Brandy. 

Fig Pudding, No. 3. • 

One cup suet chopped fine, two cups flour, three-quarters 
cup sweet milk, half cup molasses, one even teaspoon soda stirred 
in molasses, one teaspoon cinnamon, half pound figs chopped.— 
Mrs. Overs. 

Fig Pudding, No. 4. 

Three-quarters pound grated bread, half pound best figs 
chopped fine, six ounces of suet chopped fine, six ounces of moist 
sugar, teacup of milk and a little nutmeg, mix bread and suet 
first, then add figs sugar and nutmeg, when thoroughly mixed 
add one well beaten egg and the milk, boil in pudding bags as 
you would plum pudding for four hours. Sauce— One egg well 
beaten, add one cup of white sugar and beat until quite foamy, 
add four tablespoons of boiled milk, flavor with nutmeg, set over 
a basin of boiling water for half an hour. It is better to mix it 
in the bowl in which it is to be served, and cover over top while 



:tcamm 



'*, — Mrs. Ireland. 





' ( 




A" 







164 



B. Y. V. U. COOK UUUK. 



Batter Pudding 

Om cgj;. l'"l* *-'"P suKui-, l)uttcr half size of an og^, a large 
teaspoon baking powder, a cup sweet milk, ttour to make batter. 
Take pu.lding dish, first put layer of cliopped apples and sugar, 
then butter, then apples and finally layer of butter; bake in good 
oven half an h<<ur.— Mrs. L. Moulton. ^ 

Fruit Pudding 

One eup suet, one eup molasses, two eups raisins and some 
currants, two cups bread crumbs, one teaspoon mace, cinnamon 
and cloves to taste, lemon and citron peel wo teaspoons baking 
powder, one cnj) milk. 
Kkuit ruDUiNG, No. 2. 

',' ;, ; . Iding is made without cooking, and is nice prepared 
tne day before used. Stew curnints or any sm.ill fruit, cither 
fresh or dried, sweeten with sugar to taste and pour hot over 
thin slices of bread with the crust cut off, placed in a suitable 
<l»s'., first a layer of bread, then the hot stewed fruit, then bread 
and fruit, then bread leaving the fruit last, put a plate over the 
top, and when cool set it on ice, serve with su^ar and cream. 
This pudding is very fine made with Boston crackers s|)lit open 
and placed in layers with stewed pcacHcs.— Selected. 

Sauce 

Lemon Sauce for Pudding— Beat together two tablespoons 
butter, one cup sugar, yolk o'' one egg, one l-aspoon cornstarch, 
add half cup boiling wa c, cook a few minutes, then add the 
juice and grated rind of a lemon.— Mrs. Coraphu 

Sauce, No. 2. 

Three eggs and white of one exua, one large ( ip of -<ugar, 
beat eggs and sugar well together, take one cu] H>iUng water 
and butter size ui .n egg, jnst before serving t! sauce p r tht 
liquid on th^ ggs and sugnt , stirring briskly. 

Yo kshire Pudding 

Three tablespoons flour, one ^int milk, three eggs, a little 
salt, to be put in pot with beef for twenty minutes just twenty 
min tcs before ^.cf is cooked; serve both together.— Mrs. J. Har- 
rod. 



B. Y. r. U. COOK IK)OK. 



165 



VoKKSiiiKK IMjnniNO, No. 2. 

Two cgffs, one pint sweet milk, hull teaspoon salt, Hour to 
nakc a lixht batter. This is very nice to cat with roast beef or 
ard sauce. Hake in a well Kreused pan, and eat while hot.— 
Mrs. Vfites. 

YOKKSHIKK I'UDDINO No. i\ 

One pint new milk, o'H' teaspoon salt, four eggs, one cup 
Hour, stir well, pour into the frying pan after the meat has been 
removed; cook twenty-five minutes. — Miss L. Taylor. 

Layer Pudding 

One egg, half cup sugar, cc ' iter half size of an egg, 
beat these three together, a teacup oi sweet milk, one and one 
half cups flour, a little .salt, one teaspoon soda, one and one half 
teaspoons cream tarter; bake in layers and put any kind of fruit 
between them ; serve hot. Sauce for Layer Pudding— Butter half 
size of an egg, half cup sugar, nutmeg or mixed spice if desired, 
two tablespoons flour; blend well together and pour over this a 
pint of boiling water; boil for ten minutes.— Mrs. J. F. Wiggins. 

Pudding Sauce 

One cup sugar, one half cuj) butter beaten to a cream, then 
add the yolk and white of one egg beaten separately, flavor with 
a little lemon or vanilla; set to cool.— Mr C R. Pratt. 

I 

Plain Steam< d Pudding 

Three cups flour, half pound suet chopped fine, half pound 
currants, quarter pound peel, one cup sugar, three eggs, three 
teaspoons baking powder; steam two hours.— Mrs. H. Collctt. 

Carrot Pudding 

One and one half cups flour, one cup sujrar, one cup suet, 

one cup raisins, one cup currants, one cup potatoes, grated, one 

cuj) carrots, grated, one U <poon soda; steam or boil three 
hours.— Mrs. Harjjer. 

Cakrot Pudding No. 2. 

One cui) grated carr its, one cup grated potatoes, one cup 
suet, one cup raisins, one cup currants, one cup sugar, one tea- 
spoon soda, s; our to thicken, steam two hours. 



Ir 


1 


IHHB'''' 


■ 


'^KBm h 




m 


1 




1 








^^1 






■B 


1 




% 




m 


* 


I' 


1* 


\ 


1 


'i 





u 




1(>(> 



H. V. r. 11. COOK MOOK. 



FffK Sauce 

One cj,'j^, one cup sii^ar well bcalcii witli the cj^j^, one half 
cup boiling water just l)cfbte serving; season to taste. — Mrs. 
Pratt. 

Estelle Pudding 

Three eggs well beaten, two an>l a half tablespoons sugar, 
two of butter, three-foiu ths cup sweet milk, one cup of raisins 
chopped tine, one taljiespoon baking powiler, Hour to make it the 
consistency of cake l)atter, stenni thirty-five- minutes ami serve 
with cold cream sauce.— Mrs. 11. O'Grady. 

Snow Pudding: 

One pint boilinj.- water, a litiic salt, three tablespoons corn- 
starch with a little coUl water, boil thoroughly, then take from 
fire and beat quickly into the beaten whites of three eggs, put 
into molds or i ups. Sauce — Yolks of three eggs, half cup sugar, 
one and a half cups sweet milk, cook till it thickens, not bt)il, 
flavor with vanilla or lemon.— Miss Hurd. 

High Cliurcli Pudding 

One pound flour, six ounces suet, i wo cjj^.:;.^, one pound rasp- 
berry and currant jam, a little salt, chop the suet finely, mix 
with the Hour and a little salt, add thi jam and the eggs beaten, 
])ut into a biiUered basin or mold, tie down and boil for one 
and a half or two hom s. Treacle pudding is very good made 
the same manner, but omitting thi eggs. 

Cream Pudding 

Stir togethei one pint of cream, three ounces sugar, the 
yolks of three eggs, a little grated nutmeg, add the well beaten 
whites, stir lightly, and ponr into a buttered pie plate on which 
has been sprinkled the crumbs of stale bread to t'u* thickness of 
an ordinary crust, and over the top also sprinkle a layer of the 
grated crumbs and bake. 

Bread and Butter Pudding 

In a deep dish place thin slices of buttered bread with 
raisins or fresh fruit between, pour a rich custard over and bake 
half an hour; beat the white of one egg to a stiff froth, stir in 
pulverized sugar, pour over the top and brown for one minute. 
This may be cat"r. cold 



I!. V. 1'. r. CUOK ItOOK. 



U57 



Rice Dumplingfs 

Hciil one pound of rice without stirring until soft and dry 
at the top, let it eool upon u sieve or coarse chjth ; ' it may 
dry at the same time, dip your dumplinj^ elotha 'i I • water, 
wrin^j them out and Hour well inside, put a han^l ■ i ■. cold rice 
ui)on each, .si)rcadinn it out into a smooth sheet, \a\ ,n the centre 
an apple pared and cored, till the hole left by the core with straw- 
berry marmalade or crabapple jelly, draw up the cloth carefully 
to enclose the apple with a continj? of rice, tic an<l boil one hour, 
turn, out with care, j)our sweet sauce or ricli sweetened cream 
over them; one pf)und of rice will cover twelve pippins. — Mrs. 



Kvdd. 



Delicious Pudding 



Two cui)s bread crumbs, one cup raisins, one cuj) currants, 
two ounces peel, one cup chopped suet, one cup syrup, one nut- 
meg, one tcaspoonful cinnamon, four eggs, one cup sweet milk, 
one small tcaspoonful of soda, steam two hours, serve with 
sauce. — Mrs. Wolton. 

Potato Pudding: With Heat or Baked Fish 

Steam and mash mealy potatoes add season with butter, 
cream, salt and pep])cr, butter the dish and jjhice a layer of po- 
tatoes on the bottom, then having finely chopped meat or finely 
picked fish, put a layer of the one used, and so on alternately, 
finishing with a layer of bread or cracker crumbs, with a few bits 
of butter and a little water or milk to moisten, and last cover 
till nearly done with a paper, and bake about one hour. If fish 
is used stir into it a beaten egg. — M. Barker. 

Butterless Sauce 

Place one half gill of milk in a pan in boiling water ; when 
scalding put in half a pint of powdered sugar mixed with the 
yolks of two eggs; stir until thick as boiled custard, take oif, 
when cool add flavoring. Just before serving mix the well beaten 
whites lightly with the sauce— Mrs. H. O'Orady. 

Batter Pudding 

One pint of flour, one egg, two teaspoons baking powder, 
a little salt, sweet milk to make a thick batter, steam in cup 
with jam bciwccri. — Mrs. Gladiiiaii. 



\-.k:M 




P\1 



■ im^., 




lUS 



B. V. P. U. COUK BOOK. 



Battkk Pudding, No. 2. 

Mix a heaping cuj) of sugar with two tablespoons of corn 
starch, beat this well into six eggs, add one quart of sweet milk, 
two tablespoons of butter, and one teaspoonful of lemon extract, 
bake fifteen minutes, serve with cream. 

Sponge Cake Pudding 

Butter a mould, and having cut a quarter pound large 
raisins in halves fill the mould three-(|uarters full loosely with 
sponge cake which has been cut in long strips, square form crown- 
ing each tier, strips a little distance apart, cobhouse fashion, to 
allow space for the custard, then pour in custard made with 
three eggs and one pint rich milk, (rich milk means milk with the 
cream stirred in), or five eggs to one quart milk, with half to 
one and a half cups sugar as to whether liked very sweet or not, 
flavor with nutmeg or any extract desired ; set the mould in a 
kettle two-thirds or three-quarters full of water and boil one 
hour, or set in steamer and steam one hour, have properly cov- 
ered to prevent the condensing steam from dropping from the 
cover into the pudding. Sauce for same— One cup sugar, half cup 
butter whipped to a cream, then pour in one cup boiling water, 
setting the same dish on the stove to continue to scald, but not 
to boil, while two or three teasjioonfuls of cornstarch are rubbed 
up with a little cold water and stirred in, then add a well beat- 
en egg and flavor; serve while hot.— Mrs. E. C. Irvine. 

Steamed Jatter Pudding 

Make a batter of two eggs ')eatcn light, butter the size of 
an egg, half cup of milk, two teaspoons of '^'kiiii? powder, two 
tablespoons of sugar, flour enough to mal • . "ter, have ready 
five or six cups a quarter full of preserves, pour the batter in 
these, steam three-quarters of an hour over boiling water, serve 
with sauce made of two tablespoons of flour mixed in cold water, 
pour cup and a half of boiling water over it, add good '.ump of 
butter, and sugar to taste. 

Hard Times Pudding 

One cup suet, one cup molasses, one cup taisins, one cup of 
currants, one cup sweet milk, figs and peel, half a teaspoon of 
spices, one teas]H)on of baking soda, a little salt, flour enough to 
make n stiff" batter, steam two hours. Half the quantity makes 
a good sized pudding.— Mrs. GiadiiiHil. 



15. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



169 



Steamed Suet Pudding 

One cup chopjK'd suet, one cup niisins, one cup of currants, 
one cup sour milk; one cup molasses, one egg, three good cups of 
flour, one teaspoon soda, steam three hours. — Mrs. McMorran. 

Choice Bread Pudding 

One i)int of bread crumbs, one quart of milk, the yolks of 
four eggs, piece of butter al)out the size of an egg, sugar to 
sweeten, lemon to flavor, when baked spread with jelly, then the 
white of the eggs beaten to a stiff" froth with a little sugar and 
lemon, spread on the top, brown slightly in a hot oven. To be 
eaten with cream and sugar. — Mrs. Fred Hutchins. 

Cornmeal Pudding 

Half cup cornmeal, one pint boiled milk, then add one quart 
oold milk, one cup sugar, four eggs, one tablespoon butter, flavor 
to taste, bake or steam three hours.— Mrs. McDevitt. 

Carrot Pudding 

One cup each of currants, raisins, minced suet, grated car- 
rots, grated jjotatoes, sugar, one and one half cups flour, one and 
<me half teaspoons baking powder; steam two hours and serve 
witli sauce; add spices to suit taste. — Mrs. T. George. 

English Plum Pudding 

One pound raisins stoned and chopped, one pound currants, 
one (juarter each of orange, lemon and citron peel, one pound of 
dark brown sugar, one jiound suet; prepare these the day before 
boiling, add one pound pastry flour and a pint of bread crumbs. 
—Mrs. Hutt. 

Xmas Pudding 

One cup each of raisins, currants, bread crumbs and chopped 
suet, three eggs, half cup sweet milk, one cup sugar, one teaspoon 
each of cinnamon, nutmeg and baking jjowder, flour to thicken, 
steam four hours. — Mrs. E. C. McKinley. 

Blueberry Pudding 

Two cups sweet milk, two tablespoons sugar, one table- 
spoon butter, four cups flour, one teaspoon soda and two of 
cream tartar, stir in one pint berries and steam two hours; serve 
with sweetened cream ur sauce. 






. ^h- 










\i 




1 


f 


! 

1 


.1 

i 


'3 


1 



170 



B. V. P. U. COOK HOOK. 



Mikado Pudding 

Three eggs, one eiip sugar, one eup suet, one eup bread 
erumhs, one and a half eups Hour, one and a half eups raisins, 
one eup milk, two teaspoons baking powder, one teasjjoon salt, 
half teaspoon each cinnamon and cloves, a little nutmeg and a 
little vanilla, steam two hours iind serve with sauce.— Mrs. 
Gladman. 

Minnehaha 5auce 

Heat in a two quart bowl, four tablesjjoons butter and 
two-thirds pint brown sugar to a cream, with a wooden spoon ; 
then add four tablespoons sweet cream and the juice and grated 
rind of a lemon; place the bowl on top of the tea-kettle half full 
of boiling water; when melted serve.— Mrs. H. O'Grady. 

Cottas:e Pudding 

One pint milk, one tablespoon butter, two eggs, one tea- 
spoon cream tartar and soda, or two teaspoons baking ]>owder. 
—Mrs. Knifton. 

Empress Pudding 

Boil a cui) o) rice in milk until it is very soft, then add two 
tal)lespoonfuls of butter, and boil a few minutes longer. Set 
aside to cool. Beat three eggs and stir in when the rice is mod- 
erately cool. Line a dish with puft" paste and then put in first a 
layer of rice, then a layer of jam or fruit, then another layer of 
riee until the dish is full. Hake in a moderate oven about threc- 
(piarters of an hour; serve either hot or cold, but if cold pour a 
boiled custard over it. 

Dundee Pudding 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, one-half cup of butter, one cup 
milk, two cups flour, one teaspoon cream tartar, one half tea- 
spoon soda; mix well and steam three hours, serve with hot 
sauce. It may be steamed in a pretty tin mould. 

Fruit Pudding 

Take one cup each of milk, minced suet, raisins, currant*, 
molasses, stiffen with bread crumbs and a little flour, having 
adiled three teaspoons of baking powder to ihc lluur and crumbs, 
boil or steam until done. This pudding is e(|u.'dly as good the 
second day as tiie first, and is better steamed.— Mfs. Wallace 
Warner. 



B. Y. 1'. U. COOK BOOK. 



171 



Cottage Puddinc 

Rub together four tablespoonfuls of ..lelted butter, one cup 
white sugar, two even cups flour, two teanpoons cream of tartar, 
one teaspoon soda, then add one cup of sweet milk and one egg. 
Bake in a round pan; when clone phice upon a jjlate ready for 
the table and stcfim until soft; serve with sauce. Sauce. — One 
egg, one teacup sugar beaten together, add a cup and a half of 
boiling water; flavor to taste. 

Plain Ric« Pudding 

One cpjart milk, one half cup rice, one half cup ol sugar, a 
little salt; bake in a slow oven, stirring occasionally until you 
wish a crust to form ; flavor with nutmeg. 

Half Hour Dumplings 

Make cream of tartar biscuits and steam them half an hour, 
add water and sugar to canned berries, htat it to boiling and 
serve as sauce; (piickly made and very good. 

Suet Pudding 

One cuj) each of suet, raisins, molasses and sweet milk, three 
and a half cups flcir, three teaspoons baking powder, spice to 
taste.— Mrs. J. J. Canfield. 

Tapioca Cream 

Soak over night two tablespoons tapioca in half a teacup 
of milk, or enough to cover, bring one quart milk to a boiling 
point, Ijeat well together the yolks of three eggs, half a teacup 
sugar and one teaspoon of lemon or vanilla for flavoring, add 
tapioca and stir the whole into the boiling milk, let boil once, 
turn into the dish, and immediately spi.ad on the whites of the 
eggs; serve when old.— Mrs. Murdock. 

Cream Tapioca Pudding 

Soak three tablespoons tapioca in water over night, put 
the tapioca into a t|uart of boiling milk and boil half an hour, 
l)eat the y»)lks of four eggs with a cup of sugar, add three table- 
spoons of prepared cocoanul, stir in and boil ten minutes longer, 
pour (rtto a pudding dish, beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff" 
froifa, nir in three tablespoons of sugar, put this over the top, 
»f>rtfikle over with cocoanut and brown for five minutes in the 
o%'ca.--Mrs. Richmond. 









m 



Wr. 



172 



n. V. r. u. COOK iujok. 



Chocolate Pudding 

Mix (our tablespoons of };ratc(l cliocolatc with the same 
aiuouiit of sugar, heat four eujjs of milk, stir in the ehoeolate 
and sugar, thieken with four tablespoons of eornstareh, whieh 
may be mixed dry with the ehoeolate and sugar, pour in eups to 
eool, and serve with whijjped eream, whieh may be cpiiekly made 
by having the eream eold and using an egg beater or whip.— 
Mrs. J. Calder. 

Cornstarch Pudding 

Place over (uq one pint water and a ])ineh of salt, mix 
four tablespoons of eornstareh with a little eold water, whisk 
the whites of three eggs to a solitl froth, halt eup sugar, one tea- 
spoon vanilla and dissolved eornstareh, beat all well together 
and pour slowly into the boiling water, stir constantly and allow- 
to cook about five minutes, i)our into small eups that have been 
dipped into eold water. Serve with the following sauec :— Plnee 
over the tire half i)int water, beat in a small saucepan 
one teaspoon butter, one teaspoon flour, three tablespoons sugar, 
when well blended add water, now pour the whole slowly over 
the three well beaten yolks of the eggs, place mixture in a double 
I'.oiler and stir until il thickens, remove and flavor with vanilla 
when cool.— Daddy. 

Fig Pudding 

Half pound bread crumbs, one cup suet chopped tine, two 
eggs beaten light, ludf pound figs chopped fine, one small eup of 
brown sugar, one teaspoon salt, three teas])oons baking powder 
mixed with the bread crumbs, steam three hours, serve with 
li(iui(i sauce.— Miss Kirknian. 

Chocolate Pudding 

Melt half pound butter and stir into it one pound Hour, 
<|uarter pound grated chocolate, cpiarter pound sugar, one pint 
milk, yolks of three eggs ; stenm or bake. --Mrs. O'Gorman. 

Honeycomb Pudding 

Half eup sugar, li.df cuj) milk, half cup flour, half cup melt- 
ed butter; beat well together, add four eggs well beaten, then 
half pint treacle having one teaspoon soda in it; stir and bake 
half an hour.— Mrs. O'Gornian. 



B. Y. l>. V. COOK BOOK. 



173 



Strawberry Minute Pudding 

Cook a quart of ripe strawberries in a pint of water till well 
scalded, add sugar to taste, skim out the fruit, and into the boil- 
ing juice stir a scant cup of granulated wheat flour previously 
rubbed to a paste with a little cold water, cook fifteen or twent\' 
minutes, pour over the fruit and serve cold with cream sauce or 
plain cream. — Mrs. A. F. C. 

Apple Tapioca 

Soak a cuj)ful of pearl topioca over night; in the morning 
simmer in a quart of boiling water until transparent and thick- 
ened; arrange in the bottom of a pudding dish four or five good 
sized tart apples which have been pared, cored, and the cavities 
filled with sugar, squeeze the juice of a lemon and grate a very 
little of the rind over the apj)lcs, pour the tapioca over the fruit, 
.set the dish inside a pan filled with hot water, cover and bake 
one hour, or until the apples are done; serve with sugar and 
cream or milk. It is best nearly cold. Fresh peaches pared and 
stewed may be used in place of apples if preferred. — C. F. 

Lemon Pudding 

Grate rind of two lemons and use juice, add two cups of 
water, one cup of sugar and a little salt, let come to a boil till 
it looks green, then add two tablespoons of cornstarch, stir till 
it thickens, lift < tf the stove, beat in the whites of two well 
beaten eggs and set to cool. Sauce for above — One pint of milk, 
four tablespoons of sugar, salt, two teaspoons of cornstarch, the 
yolks of two eggs, thicken and set to cool.— Mrs. W. H. Bundy. 

Lemon Pudding No. 2 

Beaf the yolks of fcur eggs, add four ounces white sugar, 
the rind of a lemon, being rubbed with some lamps of it to take 
the essence, peel and beat it in a mortar with the juice of a large 
lemon and mix all with four or five ounces of butter, warmed ; put 
a crust into a shallow dish, nick edges and put the above in it; when 
served turn the pudding out of the dish.— Mrs. E. Labrash. 

Rice Pudding Witliout Eggs 

One cup rice, three jiints milk, one teaspoon salt, half cup 
sugar, put all together in your pudding dish and set in oven 
about nine in the morning, stir once in a while until cooked.— 
Mrs. M. Ai Converse^ 





ti 




irr 




174 



U. y. p. U. COOK BOOK. 



Cabinet Pudding 

Take llirco or i'our penny sponge eakes, eut into sciuares, 
line a well Inittered mould v/ith raisins, i)lace the eake in the 
mould, adding raisins; pour over it a rieh custard and steam 
one and one half hours.— Mrs. James Tuek. 

Oood Plum Pudding 

B(iuai (piantity of eurrants. raisins, suet, sugar. Hour and 
bread crumbs, peel, almonds, a jiineh of salt, spice to taste, but 
most of cinnamon, six eggs, stir all together and steam eight or 
ten hours; about one and a half cups is good measure; use very 
brown sugar.— .\. E. .Vdair. 

Whole Wheat Pudding 

One cup rolled wheat, (piartt-r teaspoon soda, (piarler salt- 
spoon salt, half cup of milk, ([uarter euj) of molasses, half cup of 
chopped raisins, one tablespoon flour, steam one and a half 
hours. 

Salem Pudding 

One cup sugar, one cup molasses, one cup suet, one cup of 
raisins, one cup currants, one cup sour milk, four cups flour, two 
eggs, peel, salt, spice, one teaspoon soda, steam three or four 
hours. — A. E. Adair. 

Foaming 5auce 

Beat half a cup of butter to a cream ; add one cup of gran- 
ulated sugar and stir till it is white and foaming; just before 
serving pour on it one cup of boiling water, and stir a moment. 
—A. E. Adair. 

Cup Pudding 

Two eggs Ijeaten well, three-ijuarters cup sugar, threc- 
((uarters cup milk, two cups flour, butter size of a walnut, two 
teaspoons baking jMuvder. Mode— Butter as many cups as re- 
(|uired, ])lacc one spoonful of jelly or any fruit desired in bottom 
of each cup and a tablespoon of batter on top, place in steamer 
iind cover tightly, and steam thirty minutes; serv.' with milk 
sauce.— Mrs. P. Laurie. 

Cup Pi'umNfl .No. 2 

Half cup sugar, one egg, butter size of an egg, half cup of 
sweet milk, two teaspoons baking powder, flour to make a stiff 
batter, steam from twenty minutes to half an hour.-— Mrs. C. W. 



Creams anb Cuetatbs 



"The food on which a man who would be healthy should 
live on should be selected so as to insure variety without excess." 
—Dr. Richardson. 

Spanish Cream 

One pint of milk, half box of gelatine, heated together; yolks 
of three eggs and five tablespoons of sugar beaten together and 
added to the above, take off stove as soon as it thickens, then 
stir in whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, flavor with 
vanilla, wet the mould before tilling, serve with cream and sugar. 
—Mrs. R. J. Lee. 

Spanish Ckkam, No. 2. 

One pint milk, three eggs, half box gelatine, dissolve the 
gelatine in milk, add sugar, eggs well beaten, turn into mould 
and let stand over night. — Mrs. John Galna. 

Coffee Custard 

One pint of strong coffee and one pint of milk boiled to- 
gether, six eggs beaten with a cup and a half of sugar. — Mrs. C. 
E. Pratt. 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

Sprinkle two cupfuls of sugar over two quarts strawberries; 
mash them and let them stand half an hour, or until the sugar 
is dissolved, and meanwhile prepare the ice and pack the freezp»- . 
tu.Mi the berries into a large square of cheese cloth placed over a 
bowl, aad scpieeze as long as any juice or pulp will come, then 
;mpty he pulp and seeds left in the cloth into a pan and pour 
'-; ;ii»dually about a pint of milk; mix it well with the pulp 
rati' the pulp is separated from the seeds, squeeze again until 
pcrfecth- dry; there should be nothing left in the cloth save a ball 
of .seeds; add to the juice as much cream as you may have, from 
one cupful to three |>ints, and sugar to make it very sweet; freeze 
BR usual. — Mrs. J. Brown. 



h 



170 



B. Y. P, U. COOK BOOK. 



1 J*, 



Ice Ckeam No. 2 

To each (|uart of rich milk add a cup of white sugar, place 
in a double boiler and when boiling add the well beaten yolks of 
four eggs, stir until thick and when cold jjut in freezer (to a four 
quart freezer add a dissolved jiackage of gelatine, whites of four 
eggs beaten very light) flavor with vanilla or pineapple, and 
freeze; add a pint of cream before beginning to freeze. The quick- 
er it is frozen the finer will be the proditct.— Mrs. George. 

IcK Crkam, No. 3. 

Make coffee as for the table, using six tablespoons of coffee 
and the white of one egg to a j)int of water. Strain and make 
into a custard with one pint of milk, three eupfuls of sugar and 
the yolks of four eggs. Cook until smooth and firm, then cool. 
When cool add the beaten whites of three eggs and a quart of 
whipped cream, then freeze.— Mrs. j. Brown. 

Ice Crea.m, No. 4. 

One pint milk, one quart of cream, two eggs, two cups of 
sugar, two tablespoons of flour, two tablespoons vanilla, or a 
little more according to the strength, stir the flour smooth in one 
cup of milk, let the rest come to a boil, then stir the flour in and 
let it boil up, add the well beaten yolks, take from the fire, stir 
in the sugar and strain; let it get perfectly cohl. then stir in the 
cream and vanilla and freeze. To freeze it use two-thirds chopped 
ice and one-third salt; should freeze in twenty minutes.— Mrs. C. 
E. Pratt. 

Ice Cream No. H 

Excellent home-made ice cream is prepared as follows:— To 
three fresh eggs add one cup of granulated sugar, thoroughly 
beaten, the cream from a pan of milk that is well scalded, and if 
possible another cupful of cream; beat again, adding the desired 
flavoring; now add a quart or more of the scalded morning's 
milk, one more cupful of sugar or a scant cx.p of sugar to a quart 
of milk, then freeze.— Mrs. McReay. 

Ice Cream No. 6. 

Mix one pint cream with one pint of milk, add one cupful 

sugar and two tcaspoonhds vanilla extract and freeze.— Mrs. J. 

Brown, 

Lemon Sherbet 

One quart milk, two eupfuls sugar, two lemons, juice only, 

stir all together and freeze; don't mind the curdle, it will freeze 

out. — Selected. 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



177 



LUMON SliUKIlUT, No. 2. 

Half a pint lemon juice, two cujjs sugar and two cups of 
cold water, stir till the sugar is dissolved, then freeze till thick, 
serve in sherbet glasses. This is nice for Thanksgiving dinner, 
to be served as an entree with the turkey. — Mrs. I'urvis. 

Boiled Custard 

One (|uart milk, eight eggs, one half pound sugar, beat to 
a good froth the eggs and sugar, put the milk in £i tin pail and 
.set in boiling water; pour in the eggs and sugar and stir until it 
thickens.— Mrs. T. Maystead. 

BOILKI) Cl'STAKI) No. 'J 

One (|uart milk, eight eggs, omitting the whites of four, 
strain it and add eight or ten drops of vanilla; make a custard, 
and when it is done and quite cool put it into a deep glass dish; 
beat to a stiff froth the whites of four eggs that have been omit- 
ted in the custard, add eight or ten drops of lemon, drop the 
froth in balls on top of the custard.— M. C. Harrison. 

Spanish Cream Dessert 

One cpiart of milk, half box g-Matin,-, four eggs beaten sep- 
arately, four level teaspoons vanilla, one cup sugar; soak the 
gelatine in the milk for half an hour, then put it on the fire in a 
double boiler, beat the yolks of the eggs and sugar together, and 
when the milk is boiling stir the eggs in and cook until it begins 
to thicken, beat the whites of the eggs very light and stir into 
the mixture, when it is taken off the fire flavor and pour into 
the mold to cool ; beat the whites well into the custard.— Mrs. 
K. Spring. 

Fruit Tapioca 

Two tRblespoons tapioca soaked over night in a little 
water; in the morning add half a cup of sugar, one pint of milk 
and one egg, heat the milk, add the tapioca and boil twenty 
minutes, beat the yolk of egf:^ with sugar, two teaspoons of flour 
and a little salt, stir into the milk and boil five minutes, pour 
into the dish, beat the white of the egg with one and a half 
tablespoons sugar, spread on top and set in the oven for a few 
minutes, pare and slice bananas or oranges, lay in the bottom 
of a glass dish, s[)rinkle with sugar, loosen the pudding and lay 
over the fruit. 



4 


'rW ":, 




•4 • 




17M 



n. Y. r. r. cov* hook. 



Sago Custard 

Three tnlik'spoons sa>,'<) boiled i i a liitle water till dear, 
add one (luart ol" milk, let it come to a boil, then a. 1 live or six 
well beaten eR^**. «»•' sugar to taste. Put tl;;" vessel containing 
the custard in a kettle t)f boiling water, stir it briskly till it 
thickens a little, flavor with vanilla after it is partly cool.— Mrs. 
Walkinshaw. 

Rite Custard 

To half cup rice add om ,uart <>f milk and a little salt, 
steam one hour, or until ^uitc soft, beat the yolks ,A tour eggs 
with four tablespoons of white sngnr. add this just before taking 
off the rice, stir in thoniighly. but do not let it b(»il any more, 
flavor with vanilla, beat the whites of the egg^ to a stiff froth 
with sugar. After putting the mixture into the i)U(lding dish in 
which you serve it, pui the white. t»ver it and let it slightly 
brown in the oven. 

Whipped Cream 

One pint cream, one small cup fine sugar, one gill of fruit 
juice, mix all together in a Inrge bowl, beat hard with a whisk, 
or what is still better with a whi] hum; as the froth rises take 
it carefully off with a spoon, aiul I'i ace in th< dish in which ii is 
to be served.— Mrs. Train. 

Vanilla Cream 

Peel and slice a half dozen bananas, l»oil two cups of milk, 
yolks of two eggs, one teaspoon of corns* treh, half cu]) of sugar 
stirred into boiling nijlk, when cold add one teaspoon of vanilla, 
pour over bananas, beat the whites of two eggs and put on the 
top.— Mrs. W. Ireland. 

Chocolate Custard • 

One (juart of milk, two eggs, two and a half heaping table- 
spoons of cornstarch or maizcna, two tablespoons of sugar, heat 
the milk almost to boiling, same as for soft custard; beat the 
eggs, then add cornstarch and work it until free from lumps, 
then add the chocolate, then sugar, and wet the whole with cold 
milk, take sufficient milk besides the quart to have it thin enough 
to pour, then pour the whole into the hot milk and stir until 
about as thick as soft custard, let it cool a little and pour into 
glasses.— Mrs. C. IJ. Pratt. 




H. Y. P. U. COOK HOOK, 



179 



Tapioca Cream 

I'm '>nc pint milk and two tablespoons tapioca in a double 
boiler and cook until the tapioca is soft, stir in a little salt, four 
tnblcspoonfii! of su^ar, one egg and the yolk of another, stir till 
it thickens. »< tnovc from stove, stir in one teasjiooii of \ - 

nilla. beat i > >f the egg with a teaspoon of sugar, and 

drop in littU .iis on the cream.— Mrs. Hundy. 

Charlotte Russe 

Whip om: quart of rich cream to d ntiff froth and drain well 
on a fine sieve, to one scant pint of niilk add six eggs beaten 
very light, make very sweet, flavor with vanilla, cook over a hot 
fuf till it is I thick custard, soak one full ounce of gelatine in 
verv litt' ■ warm wj cr and warm over hot water, when the 
custard is cold lieat in lightly the gelatine and the whipiK.d 
cream, lim the bottom of your mould with buttered paper, the 
sides with sponge cake or ladies' fingers together with the white 
of nv n V ith the cream, put in a cold place or on ice. To 

turn t the mold for a moment in hot wntcr. In draining 

the w I cream all that droj)s through can be re-whipped.— 

Mrs. 1 tly. 

Chocolate Cream Filling 

Half cup milk, half cup chocul.-ite, one teaspoonful vanilla, 
sugar to taste, boil until thick.— Mrs. J. j. Canfield. 

Apple Float 

To a quart of apples stewed and well mashed put whites 
of three eggs well beaten r^nd four teasjwons of loaf sugar.— Mrs. 
Train. 

Rice Cream 

One scant .up rice, one heaping cup sugar, one quart milk, 
half package gelatine, one pint cream, one teaspoon almond or 
vanilla essence, boil the rice until tender, drain the water off and 
stir the rice into the scalding milk with the sugar, bring to o 
boil and put in the gelatine, which has soaked two hours in en- 
ough cold water to cover it. When this has dissolved strain tlic 
mixture through a fine collander and beat for three minutes w?th 
a Dover egg beater. Flavor and set asitle to cool, then whip m 
the stiffened cream, let it form in a wet mold, and keep on kc 
until served.— Mrs. C. E. Pratt. 



MICROCOPY RESOIUTION TEST CHART 

(ANSI and ISO TEST CHART No 2) 



1.0 



I.I 



1.25 



«50 



I 2.8 

III 3.2 

III 3 6 

m 



1.4 



2.5 
2.2 

1 2.0 
1.8 

1.6 



M APPLIED IM^GE Inc 

^\, 1653 East Main Street 

~.JS 'Rochester. New York 14609 USA 

'-Sa: (716) 482 ~ 0300 - Phone 

=^= 1/16) 288 - 5989 - Fax 



■.-^■.■'mmnx^:^^^ 



180 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



I :. 



('. - 



■A , . 



Bovarian Chocolate Cream 

For one large mold oi" eream use half a package of gelatine 
one gill of milk, two (luarts of vvhipi)ed eream, one gill of sugar 
and one ounee of ehocolate; soak the gelatine in cold water for 
two hours, whip and drain the cream, scrape the chocolate and 
put the milk on to boil; put the chocolate, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, and one of hot watei in £i small sauce pan and stir on a 
hot fire until smooth and glossy; stir this into the hot milk, now 
add the soaked gelatine and the remainder of the sugar. Strain 
this mixture into a basin that will hold two quarts or more, 
place the basin in a pan of ice water and stir until the mixture 
is cold, when it will begin to thicken; instantly begin to stir in 
the whipped eream, adding half the amount first; when all the 
cream is added dip the mold in cold water and then turn the 
cream into it and place in the ice chest for an hour or more; at 
serving time dip the mold in tepid water, see that the cream will 
come from the sides of the mold, turn out on a flat dish; serve 
with whiijpcfl ci^am. — Mrs. Carnfel. 

Chocolate Shape 

Four cups milk, yolks of two eggs, five tablespoons choco- 
late, four tcii spoons gelatine, one cup sugar, a few drops vanilla; 
take one cup milk, soak the gelatine in it for ten minutes, break 
the ehocokite in the milk and beat it in a saucepan stirring con- 
stantly until well done, put in the rest of milk to boil, then the 
chocolate, sugar and gelatine, and last the yolks.— Miss Ferguson. 

Pine-Apple Sponge 

One fresh pine-apple, or a can holding a pint and a half, one 
small cupful of sugar and one and a half cupfuls of water, cook 
together ten minutes. Have ready a half box of gelatine soaked 
in a half cupful of cold water, add to fruit and strain. When 
partly cooled and set stir into the mixture the whipped whites 
of four eggs, beat till very smooth and mold. Serve with either 
whipped cream or custard. 

Ambrosia 

One cocoanut and one dozen oranges; cut the oranges into 
thin slices and grate the cocoanut, place a layer of orange in a 
glass dish and sprinkle i)owdercd sugar over it, then a layer of 
cocoanut and so on in alternate layers, having cocoanut last.— 
Miss Ferguson. 






mm 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



181 



Ange! Cream 

Put in double boiler one pint of new milk, saving out enough 
to rub smooth three heaping teaspoonfuls of cornstarch, add to 
hot milk with one half cupful of sugar, take it from the fire and 
add ten drops of almond extract and whipped whites of three 
eggs. Mold and pour over, when serving, a rich boiled custard 
made of one and a half cupfuls of milk, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and the yolks of three eggs, flavor the custard with vanilla. 

Apple Custard 

Pare, core and quarter one dozen tart apples, strew into it 
the grated rind of one lemon, stew until tender in very little 
water, then mash smooth with back of spoon; to one and one 
half pints of strained apples add one and one quarter pounds of 
sugar ; leave it until cold ; beat six eggs light and stir alternately 
into one quart of milk with the apples, put into cups or a deep 
dish and bake twenty minutes; to be eaten cold.— D. E. Walton. 

Apple Snow 

Stew some sour apples until soft, sweeten to taste, and 
strain through a wire sieve, to each pint of apple add the white 
of one egg, whisk very briskly until stiff and white, then heap it 
up in a dish and pour around it some whipped cream or a nice 
boiled custard. This makes a delicious dessert. 

Strawberry Ice 

Pick three pint? of ripe berries, crush them with a silver 
fork, and cover with a pound of sugar, set aside in a cool place 
for half an hour, then add to the fruit th pints of water, pass 
through a fine sieve or cloth, and just beioi. freezing add a pint 
of picked berries.— Mrs. J. Brown. 

Pretty Dish 

Split the oranges and turn peel over ; take out the core and 
fill with whipped cream; serve in bed of lettuce.— Miss Ferguson. 
Plytnoth Rock Oelatine 

Half package gelatine put in one cup cold water, soak half 
an hour, pour over it one and a half cups boiling water, add 
sugar and lemon to taste, put in dish till settled, whites of three 
eggs beaten well and the above beaten in, then put in molds. 
Sauce for above— Yolks of three eggs, half cup sugar, one tea- 
spoonful cornstarch and a pinch of salt, beaten together, and 
stirred into one pint boiling uiiik. — Mrs. A. F. Cobb. 



1 



,*«(l 



m • 



<.V»i' » 




Canneb jFtuits anb JelUes 



i».i 



hh 



"I went down into the garden of nuts to see the fruits of 
the valley, and to see whether the vine flourished, and the pome- 
granates budded. My soul desired the first ripe fruit." 

To Can Any Kind of Fruit 

To do any kind of fruit fill your sealer and seal with the 
rubber, put in a boiler of cold water and let come to a boil and 
boil for fifteen minutes. Have ready the syrup, half a pound of 
sugar to a pound of fruit, pour over and seal tightly.— Mrs. Clark. 

Tapioca Jelly 

Wash the tapioca carefully in two or three waters, then 
soak for five or six hours, then simmer it in a stewpan until it 
becomes quite clear, add a little lemon juice.— Mrs. C. E. Pratt. 

5piced Blueberries 

Nine pounds berries, three pounds white sugar, one ounce 
cinnamon, one ounce cloves, half pint of vinegar, boil till thick.— 
Mrs. T. Woods. 

Crab Apple 

Fill the jars and put the glasses over and place them in a 
boiler with cold water, cook until fruit settles, make a very thick 
syrup of white sugar, fill in with the extra fruit until there is a 
space of two inches from tb' i, then fill with syrup and let 
boil fifteen minutes, then ta! t and fill aga.n and seal.— Mrs. 

W. Vigrass. 

Strawberries 

Take three quarts of strawberries and three pints of sugar, 
make a rich syrup, let it boil well before putting in the fruit, and 
cook until soft, but not broken, .about twenty minutes, then seal 
down tight. This will make three quarts.— Mrs. W. Vigrass. 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



183 



A Nice Dish of Apples 

One pint of the pulp of roasted apples, strained, one half 
pint pulverized sUjirar, the whites of three eggs, beat the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth, then add a spoonful of apple and a 
spoonful of sugar alternately, beating all together until the mix- 
ture stands perfectly stiff on the spoon ; make a boiled custard of 
the yolks of the three eggs, one pint of milk, two tableppoons of 
sugar and flavor with vanilla; place the custard in saucers and 
cover with the apple sauce and serve. — M. C. Harrison. 

Apples for Present Use 

Take about twenty nice snow or other good cooking apples, 
wipe them clean and place them in a preserving kettle with water 
enough to about half cover them, then add two cups of brown 
sugar, half cup cider vinegar and a teaspoon of ground cinnamon, 
cover them down tightly and let them simmer over a slow fire 
until the apples become soft, lift them out, let syrup boil down 
thick and pour over the apples; use when cold. — Mrs. Bundy. 

Blueberries and Rhubarb 

Peel and cut the rhubarb into inch lengths, equal parts of 
fruit, say one pint of berries and one pint of rhubarb, and a pint 
of sugar, let come to a boil slowly, cook about twenty minutes, 
or until rhubarb is soft, seal down tight. — Mrs. VV. Vigrass. 

Tomato Preserves 

Eleven pounds ripe tomatoes peeled, six pounds granulated 
sugar, three lemons sliced, half cup vinegar, half ounce of whole 
cloves and cinnamon, put in a muslin bag, boil about twenty 
minutes, use whole ginger root sometimes instead of spices. — Mrs. 
R. G. Ard. 

Tomato Preserves No. 2 

Seven pounds of tomatoes just turning red, peel, sprinkle 
with sugar and let them stand till morning; make a syrup of 
seven pounds of sugar, the juice of the tomatoes, one ounce of 
ginger root, one ounce mace and four lemons; boil the tomatoes 
in this syrup till clear, skim out, and if the syrup is noi thick 
enough, cook until it is, then pour it over the tomatoes, — Miss 
Haines. ' 



I, 



1|! 



!■) 




■:r 



I f 






184 



B. Y. P. U. CUOK BUUK. 



Seville Orange Marmalade 

Cut the oranges as thin as possible, using every part except 
the pips; to every pint of cut up fruit add two and a quarter 
pints of cold water, let this stand all night, next day boil tl.ree- 
quarters of an hour, the following day weigh, and to every pound 
add one and a quarter pounds granulated sugar, then boil an 
hour.— Mrs. Morrow. 

ORANor, Marmalade No. 2 

Nine sweet oranges, three marmalade oranges, four lemons, 
slice them all very thin, pour four quarts of water on them; let 
them stand thirty-six hours, then boil for two hours, add eight 
pounds white sugar, then boil for one and one half hours.— Mrs. 
A. N. Fenn. 

Orange Marmalade, No. 3. 

One dozen bitter oranges, three sweet oranges, three lemons, 
slice all the fruit very thin, keep seeds of all the fruit in a bowl 
with a cup of cold water over them, put seven quarts of water 
all the fruit you have sliced and let it remain over night. In the 
morning place over fire and boil two hours slowly, then take off, 
measure, and to every quart add three pounds of white sugar, 
now tie the seeds and water you put over them in a muslin bag, 
squeeze into the pan of fruit, drop in bag also, return all to the 
fire and boil one hour. Slice both skins and fruit very fine. It is 
in the seeds you have the jelly, so be sure you save them all.— 
Mrs. Dr. Appelbe. 

Orange Marmalade No. 4 

Six bitter oranges, two lemons, eight quarts water and ; ix 
pounds white sugar; peel the fruit and scrape as much of the 
white pulp as possible from the rind ; cut the rind very fine in 
strips, put all the rest, pulp seeds, etc., in a muslin bag and tie 
up, boil water, rind and bag for two hours steadily, then take 
out bag, add sugar, and boil half an hour longer ; let water, rind 
and bag stand for thirty-six hours before boiling.— Mrs. Halliday. 

Orange Marmalade No. 5 

One dozen oranges, three lemons cut across the grain very 
fine, put on four quarts water and let stand forty-eight hours, 
then put it on the stove and boil two hours; add eight pounds 
granulated sugar, boil one hour and bottle.— Mrs. Harper. 



>*'^ 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



185 



Stewed Cranberries 

One quart cranberries, two and a half cups sugar, one cup 
water, pick over the cranberries, stew them in the water till per- 
fectly tender, put through a press to remove the skins, return the 
l)ulp to the sauce pan and add the sugar, slir till the sugar is 
dissolved, then pour into a mold; if you do not care to have it 
quite as jelly-like add a little more water when cooking. After 
eating this you will never care to eat cranberry sauce withouut 
removing the skins.— Mrs. Purvis. 

Cranberry Sauce 

Wash and pick one quu. . of ripe cranberries and put into a 
saucepan with a teaeupful of water, stew slowly, stirring often, 
until they are as thick as marmalade; they should cook at least 
one and a half hours; sweeten abundantly with white sugar 
when you take them from the tire. If sweetened when cooking 
the c6lor will be bad. Put into a mold and set aside to get cold. 
—Mrs. Kidd. 

Peach Cantelope 

One pound evaporated peaches cooked and strained, grated 
rind and juice of a lemon, one pint whipped cream, three-quarters 
cup fine sugar, one ounce of Cox's gelatine.— Mrs. J. Banks. 

Spiced Red Currants 

Four pounds currants, two pounds sugar, one cup vinegar, 
cinnamon and cloves to taste. Raisins improve the flavor if put 
in at first and cooked with the rest. Boil slowly for one hour.— 
Mrs. Overs. 

Canned Pineapples 

For six pounds of fruit, when cut and ready to can, make 
syrup with two and a half pounds of sugar and nearly three 
pints of water, boil the s\ rup five minutts and skim or strain if 
necessary, then add the fruit and let it boil up; have cans hot, 
fill and shut up as soon as possible. Use the best white sugar; 
as the cans cool keep tightening them up.— Mrr, Cunningham. 

Cranberry Perserve 

Wash one quart of cranberries, add two and a half cups of 
white sugar, one pint of water, and stew together in a covered 
saucepan over a steady fire for eight minutes, remove and set to 
cool.— Mrs. T. Woods. 




Sjll-i 



Hi 



« .' 



:m 



nn 



186 



B. Y. P. U. COOK U(^OK. 



Rhubarb and Pineapple 

Feel pineapple, sliee and cut into diee, taking out trte hard 
centre, cut rhubarb in small pieces and ])ut four pounds rhubarb 
to three pounds of jHnapple; allow three-quarters pound sugar 
to each pound of fruit, boil until clear; it will take about half 
an hour; no water is required.— Mrs. McClelland. 

Quince flarmalade 

Pare, core, slice and weigh tiie fruit, stewing the skins and 
cores in a dish by themselves with water enough to just cover. 
When the parings are tender turn into f cloth bag and squeeze 
out every drop of juice; put the quinces into the kettle, pour 
over the juice, cover and let cook slowly, stirring and mashing 
with a wooden spoon until the pieces have become a smooth 
paste, now add three-quarters of a pound of white sugar to each 
pound of fruit, boil ten minutes longer, stirring constantly, re- 
move from fire, turn into jelly tins and tic down. — Mrs. T. Ryder. 

Quince Preserves 

Pare, core and quarter your fruit, weigh it and allow an 
equal c|uantity of white sugar, take the peelings and cores and 
put in a preserving kettle, cover them with water, and boil half 
an hour, then strain through a hair sieve and put the juice back 
into the kettle and boil the quinces in it, a few at a time, until 
they arc tender, lift out as they are done with a drainer, and 
lay on a dish; if the liquid seems scarce add more water. When 
all are done throw in the sugar, and allow it to boil ten minutes 
before putting in the quinces, let them boil until they change 
color, say one hour and a quarter, on a slow fire ; while they 
are boiling occassionally slip a silver spoon under them to see 
that they do not stick or burn, but do not stir them. Have two 
fresh lemons cut into thin slices, and when the fruit is put in jars 
lay a slice or two on each. — Mrs. H. Reid. 

Delicious Rhubarb Jelly 

May be made b}' cutting rhubarb into pieces an inch in 
length, and then placing it in a dish with a cupful of ^ugar, one 
of water, a little ginger root and lemon peel, and baking until 
the rhubarb is tender. Put some pink gelatine to soak, soften 
over hot water, strain into the rhubarb, add the juice of a lemon, 
pour into a mold and chill, serve with whipped cream. 



B. Y. I'. U. COOK BOOK. 



187 



half 



Spiced Q rapes 

Take your grapes, separate the skins from pulp, keeping in 
separate dishes, put pulp in kettle, when heated through run 
through colander to remove seeds, then put in skins, and to each 
pound of fruit add three-quarters pound sugar, add spices,^ cin- 
namon and cloves, to suit taste, let boil one hour.— Mrs. R. E. M. 

Spiced Peaches 

For each jmund of fruit, after being pared and pits removed, 
one half pound sugar, one gill vinegar, with unground spices to 
taste, boiled together until fruit is tender, then take fruit out of 
syrup, cook syrup and spices together, then pour over fruit and 
securely cover.— Miss F. Vankoughnett. 

Crab Apple Jelly 

Boil the (piantity of crab apples you wish to use in enough 
water to cover them, let boil till they are very soft, take off and 
put in a linen bag to drain, and to each cup of the liquid use a 
cup of sugar, boil for half an hour and seal.— Mrs. D. Gervis. 




in.:'! 



Hi 



u- 




'»i' 



:li 




Beverages 



Coffee 



"One for the ])ot," and a heaping tablespoon ground eoflfee 
for eaeh person is the usual allowance. Mix well with a i)art or 
the whole of an egg and enough cold water to thoroughly moist- 
en it, then after scalding the coffee pot put in the coffee with 
half the quantity of boiling water needed, allowing one jiint less 
than there are tablespoons of ground coffee. Boil quite fast for 
five minutes, stirring down from the top and sides as it boils u]), 
then place on the bacK part of the stove or range and let it sim- 
mer about five minutes longer. When ready to serve add the rest 
of the boiling water. Coffee boiled a long time is strong, but not 
so well flavored or nice as when prepared as above. The less 
time coffee i' ccoked the more coffee is required, but the finer the 
flavor.— Mrs. A. F. Cobb. 

Raspberry Vinegar 

Twelve quarts of berries, cover with vinegar, let them re- 
main for two days, stirring occasionally, then strain through a 
jelly bag. To every pound of juice add one pound of white sugar, 
boil for twenty minutes, let remain till cold and bottle.— Mrs. 
(Dr.) Appelbe. 

Raspbkrry Vinegar, No. 2. 

To four quarts raspberries put enough vinegar to cover, and 
let them stand twenty-four hours, scald and strain, add a pound 
of sugar to one pint juice, boil twenty minutes and bottle.— Mrs. 
B. Harris. 

Qinger Beer Powder 

One pound brown sugar, one ounce powdered ginger, three 
ounces tartaric acid, three ounces carbonate soda, mix all the 
ingredients thoroughly and put them in a covered jar in a dry 
place. This will not keep very long. When wanted for use take 
two teaspoons to a tumbler of water, and add at the time it is 
used a few drops of essence of lemon. — Mrs. Sutherland. 



:« 



U. V. 1'. LI. COOK IJOUK. 



-18U 



^^^ 



Fruit Cordial 

Crush Ji pint of l)latkl)crrics. nispl)errifs. jjrapcs, currants, 
or clifrrics. adding the juice of two sour oranges, and a sliced 
IcnioM. pour over all a (juart of cold water, stir the mixture fre- 
ijuently and let it stand for two hours, then strain and add a 
syrup made by dissolving white sugar in boiling water, sufficient 
to sweeten. Cool on ice and serve— Selected. 

Wheat, Oat and Barley Coffee 

Mi.\ together equal (juantities of these grains, brown in the 
oven like ordinary coifee and grind. To one quart of boiling 
water take three tablespoons of the prepared coffee mixed with 
the whitejjtjfifi egg, and steep in boiling water ten or fifteen 

""''''''';■ iJ^H^*--^ Boston Cream 

■ iJUkc a syrup of four p;)ands of white sugar with four 
quarts of water, boil. When cold add four ounces of tartaric 
acid, one and a half ounces of essence of lemon, and the whites 
of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth and bottle. A wine glass of the 
cream to a tumbler of water, with sufficient carbonate of soda 
to make it effervesce.— Miss L. Salt. 

Cream Nectar 

Dissolve two pounds of crushed sugar in three quarts of 
water, boil down to two quarts, drop in the white of an egg 
while boiling, then strain and put in the tartaric acid. When 
cold drop in the lemon to your taste, then bottle and cork. 
Shake two or three times a day.— Miss E. Ray. 

Currant Wine 

One quart currant juice, three pounds sugar, sufficient water 
to make a gallon. 

Tea a la Russe 

Pare and slice fresh, juicy lemons, lay a piece in the bottom 
of each cup, sprinkle with white sugar, an^ pour hot strong tea 
over it. No cream is used.— Miss M. C. Harrison. 

To Hake Tea 

To two cups of boiling water use one teaspoon of tea, 
scald the teapot, steep five minutes. Never allow tea to boil.— 

Selected. 




w 


it- 'd'k 


■4t 




^i 


t'ii 


% 


; 


ii 




1 




1 










' i 



! , .'i 



» I' I", V 



ir 






i,i 






*u, I 




m 




# 




1 '" ' 


li-'^^K 


S' 




V.''- 


^^^^■^ 



lUO 



H. V. r. II. COOK BOOK. 



Chocolate 

Scrape chocolate fine, mix wi.li a little col.! water and the 



volks of ejJTgs well beaten, add this to c(|iial parts of milk and 
water and boil well, bein^ careful that it does not burn. Sweeten 
to taste and serve hot.— Mrs. .\ldrich. 

Chocoi-ath, No. 2. 

Four heaping teaspoons of chocolate grated, one teaspoon 
of sugar wet with boiling water, rub this smooth, stir into one 
pint of boiling milk, let it boil three minutes, stir with an egg 
beater while boiling, add two tablespoons whij)ped cream which 
has been sweetened.— Mrs. Cobb. 

Lemon S^rup 

Pare off the yellow rind of a lemon, slice the lemon and put 
a layer of the lemon and thick layer of sugar in a deej) plate, 
cover close with a saucer and set in a warm place. This is .i 
good remedy for a cold.— Mrs. \. 

Qrape Wine 

Twenty-two pounds grapes, pour three pints of boiling 
water over them, let stand four or five days. Once in a while 
squeeze them out with the hand, then strain and add ten pounds 
of sugar, then stand five or six days, then bottle.— Mrs. A. Salt. 

Raspberry or Strawberry Acid 

Put twelve pounds of fruit into a pan, pour over them three 
quarts cold water previously acidulated with four ounces of tar- 
taric acid, let remain twenty-four hours, then .strain, taking care 
not to bruise the fruit. To each pint of clear liquid add one and 
a half pounds loaf sugar finely powdered, stir it often, and when 
quite dissolved bottle the syrup. The whole process must be 
done quite cold.— Mrs. Beveridge. 



Canbiee 



Fondant 

Fondant is the t'oundation for innunicrublc kinds of cream 
candies, and is made r.s follows:— Two cupfuls of granulated 
sugar, a cupful of hot water, one-third of a teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar. Place on the hack of the stove and stir until thorough- 
ly dissolved. If there are any grains around the sides of the pan 
clean off with a damp cloth before letting it come to a boil. 
Boil over n (pjick tire nntil a little of it dropped into cold water 
will make a soft ball. Remove the mixture from the fire and put 
it aside to cool, leaving it in the dish in which it was cooked. 
Do not put it- into cold water to cool. When cool (not cold) stir 
until it becomes a thick, creamy mass. When it is too hard to 
stir ativ more take it into the hands and knead. Kneading the 
fondant has somewhat the same effect on the candy as kneading 
dough has upon the bread; it makes it light and smooth. Then 
put it into an earthen dish, cover with a ...i^htly dampened cloth 
and let stand until desired for use. It will be better and more 
creamy after standing for two or three days, and it will keep for 
a week or more. If the fondant is grainy after being stirred, put 
more water with it, dissolve again and cook as before, taking 
care not to jar the pan either while it is cooking or cooling. For 
pink fondant use .the same proportions as for the white, adding 
half a tablespoonful of pink sugar, which can be bought of a 
confectioner, and is inexpensive, a small quantity lasting a long 
time. For maple fondant use :— Two cupfuls of light brown 
(coffee C) sugar u cupful of maple syrup, a cupful hot water, 
one-third teaspoonful cream of tartar. This is more easily made 
than either of the other kinds, as the brown sugar is more moist 
than the white, and is not as likely to grain. It is, therefore, a 
good one with which to begin. — Miss F. S. Helgason. 

Stuffed Dates 

Stone a pound of dates, stuff with a pound of English wal- 
nuts cut into halves, and roll in confcctiuUei's sugar. 



* 



Is 



ilk 




»— ^l*a81i«'^-- ■' 



'|. ''V •:■ 



n 



y 



> 







fc ' 




192 



H. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



Chocolate Caramels 

One cup of grated chocolate, three cups of sugar, one cup 
mohisses, one cup milk and a small piece of butter. Boil for 
about t\\'t'V.*y minutes, stirring all the time, pour into a buttered 
pan, when nearly cold mark off in squares. — Mrs. E. J. Vincent. 

Chocolatk Cak.vmki.s, No. 2. 

One and a half cups sugar, one cup molasses, half cup milk, 
half cake baker's chocolate scraped fine, quarter teaspoon soda 
dissolved in milk, two teaspoons gum arabic. a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, boil without stirring until it breaks crisp in 
water, jiour out quarter of an inch thick in greased tins, cut in 
squares when it gets a little cool. Half of this recipe makes one 
square tin full. — Marguerite Alc.Murray. 

Chocolate Caramels, No. 3. 

Two cups brown sugar, one cup molasses, one cup choco- 
late grated fine, one cup boiled milk, one tablespoon flour, butter 
the size of a large English walnut, let it boil slowly and pour on 
flat tins to cool. Mark them off while warm. 

Chocolate Caramels, No. 4. 

One cup of grated chocolate, one cup of milk, one cup of 
molasses, one cup of sugar, butter the size of an egg, boil all to- 
gether until thick, then cool in shallow pans. 

Chocolate Caramels, No. 5. 

One cup grated chocolate, three cups sugar, one cup mo- 
lasses, one cup of milk, a small piece of butter, boil about twenty 
minutes, stirring all the time, pour into a buttered pan, and 
when nearly cold mark off into small squares. — Mrs. Capt. 
Stewart. 

Kisses 

Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, add five spoon- 
fuls of fine white sugar tind flavor with lemon. Drop with a 
spoon on buttered paper, sift sugar over tind bake half an hour 
in a slow oven. — Miss .\. Harrison. 

Kisses, No. 2. 

Whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one cup powder- 
ed sugar, beat this together fifteen minutes, drop in teaspoonfuls 
on brown paper, put on dripping pan turned bottom side up in 
the oven, bake until a crust forms on them. — Mrs. John Overs. 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



193 



Vinegar Taffy 

Two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, four tablespoonfuls of water, 
six tablespoonfuls of sugar. Boil twenty minutes and pour into 
a buttered plate.— Mrs. Hale. 

Hickorynut Candy 

One cup hickorynuts, two cups dugar, half a cup of water, 
boil sugar and water without stirring till thick enough to spin 
a thread, set it off in cold water and stir quickly till clear, stir 
in nuts and turn in a flat tin, when cold cut in squares.-Miss 

Beatty. 

Molasses Candy 

Boil a quart of molasses slowly until it becomes brittle in 
cold water; just before taking from the fire add a. teaspoon of 
soda, pour into buttered tins, and when nearly cold pull white. 
Mrs. Carnfel. 

Molasses Candy, No. 2. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of sugar, piece of butter the 
size of an egg, one tablespoonful of glycerine. Put these ingredi- 
ents into a kettle and boil hard twenty or thirty minutes ; when 
boiled thick drop a few drops into a cup of cold water, and if 
the r" OS retain their shape it is nearly done. Do not boil it too 
mucl Have pans well buttered and just before the candy is 
poured into them stir in half a teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 
If flavoring is desired drop the flavoring on the top as it begins 
to cool, and when it is pulled the whole will be flavored. Pull 
till it is as white as desired.— Miss Daisy Stewart. 

Chocolate Cream 

Take two cups granulated sugar and half a cup sweet 
cream, boil together for just five minutes from t^e time it begins 
to boil. Remove from the stove, add a teaspoonful of vanilla 
and stir constantly until cool enough to work with the hands, 
roll into little balls and lay on buttered paper to cool. Put one 
quarter of a cake of baker's chocolate in a bowl in hot water 
to melt the chocolate. Do not add water. When the chocolate 
is melted roll the balls in the melted chocolate with a fork, and 
replace them on the buttered papers. When the white mixture 
has partly cooled it may be dropped on buttered papers and nut 
, 4.- u^ ^!o,>of» nn fnn inakinB' it a oleasine variety.— L. A. 

Lawrence. 




V'/k^W 



194 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 





I If. 



Vh, 



M 




Cream Candy 

Two pounds of white sugar, just enough water to dissolve. 
Boil in a covered kettle or saucepan briskly without stirring. 
When it begins to thicken, which will lie soon, add a little cream 
of tartar. Be sure that it does not burn. Try by dipping a small 
stick into it and then putting quickly into cold water. I f it 
breaks short and crisp it is done. Pour it out on a large butter- 
ed plate or pan, and pour over it the flavoring. When cool 
enough to handle work it until it is white, and cut into flat 
sticks. When hard place it in glass jars and keep it for a week 
or ten days, when it will be creamy and delicious. — Miss L. 
Hopkins. 

Cream Candy, No. 2. 

One pound of white sugar, three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 
one teaspoon of lemon extract, one teaspoon of cream of tartar, 
add a little water to moisten the sugar, boil until brittle, put in 
the extract, then turn quickly out on buttered plates. When cool 
pull until white and cut in squares. — Mrs. J. Johnston. 

Cream Candy, No. 3. 

Two cups of white sugar, one cup of water, one-third tea- 
spoon cream tartar, stir until the sugar melts, boil until the syrup 
will form in a soft ball by putting it in cold water, pour on a 
buttered platter and let cool until you can bear your finger in it 
without burning, stir until it creams. Before removing from the 
stove, add a little lemon or vanilla, mould into shape, put on a 
buttered plate and set away to harden. — Mrs. W. H. Bundy. 

Cream Candy, No. 4. 

Beat up the white of an egg, add the same quantity of 
water, then stir in enough icing sugar to make the mixture stitT 
enough to roll into shape with the hands, flavor to suit and or- 
nament with raisins or dates. — Miss L. Johnston. 

Taffy 

Two cups brown sugar, one cup water, a pinch of salt, boil 
until nearly done, then put in a lump of butter the size of a small 
egg, boil until it is stringy, add a little lemon or vanilla, remove 
from the stove and pour in a buttered pan until cold, then pull 
until white.— Mrs. W. H. Bundv. 



li. Y. P. U. COUK HOOK. 



1 yf) 



Haple Cream 

Two cups of brown sugar, one cup of sweet milk, butter the 
size of a small egg, boil until stringy, remove from the fire and 
stir until it creams, add a few chopped walnuts.-Mrs. Bundy. 

Maple Cream, No. 2. 

Take four cups soft sugar to one of cream or milk and a 
generous lump of butter, put on the stove and stir good until it 
comes to a boil, let boil until it will form a soft ball when put 
in water, then add vanilla to taste and remove from the stove, 
set in a dish of cold water, and stir until it starts to harden, 
then pour in greased tins.— Mrs. T. A. Clark. 

Walnut Creams 

These mav be made with either the white or maple fondant. 
Roll a piece of the fondant into a ball and press well into each 
side half a walnut meat, then lay aside on paraffine paper to 
harden. The white fondait should have a few drops of vanilla 
worked into it before being made up into balls.-Miss F. Helgason. 

Cocoanut Wafers 

Use white fondant, melt, flavor with vanilla, and mix in 
shredded cocoanut until quite stiff, then drop on paraffine paper. 
—Miss F. S. Helgason. 

Cocoanut Candy 

To one grated cocoanut add half its weight of sugar and 
the white of one egg. cut to stiff froth, mix thoroughly and drop 
on buttered white paper or tin sheets, bake fifteen minutes.-Mrs. 
Thos. McCoy. ■^ 

Butter Scotch 

One pound of light brown sugar, quarter pound of fresh 
butter, boil but do not stir, when done pour on plate and cut 
in squares. 

tlorehound Candy 

Three cups granulated sugar, one cup water,' boil until very 
brittle, boil a spoonful of horehound in a little water, strain into 
the sugar while cooking, pour on greased pan and cut in squares 
or sticks.— Miss A. Harrison. 



.. 4 



I 






ill .t 



mm 





196 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



Cocoanut Drops 

One pound of cocoanut, one pound of powdered sugar, scant 
one-fourth cup flour, whites of six eggs, bake in a quick oven. — 
Miss A. Harrison. 

Vanilla Taffy 

Two pounds brown sugar, one cup of water, a tablespoon 
of butter, two teaspoons vanilla, boil till it will hair when lifted 
up with a spoon.— Miss Ella Crichton. 

Kingston Caramels 

Half cup molasses, one cup sugar, half cup of milk, half 
spoonful of flour, butter half size of an egg, quarter of a pound 
of chocolate. Boil until hard, turn it into a pan, mark into 
squares.— Mrs. C. E. Pratt. 

Pecan Nut Candy 

Two cups of molasses, two cups sugar, one cup of Dutter, 
add as many pecans as possible, let them boil with the candy; 
this gives a delicious flavor. Test by dropping into cold water. 



H 




I ; 





flDiscellancous 



I 



To make a rose-jar, place in an ornamental china jai three 
handfuls each of damask rose leaves, sweet pinks, stock-gilly 
flowers, and any other blossoms obtainable. Arrange each var- 
iety of flowers in a separate layer, and strew each layer thickly 
yiith powdered orris root. If desired a mixture composed of equal 
quantities of powdered cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg may be 
stirred with the flowers before they are placed in the jar. Every- 
thing used should be perfectly free from moisture. Cover the jar 
closely, removing the top occasionally when it is desired to per- 
fume the room. To make a rose pillow place the rose leaves in 
a warm oven, and when they are thoroughly dried use them to 
till an unbleached muslin pillow. For the outside cover use any 
preferred material. 

Fastidious 

If the starching is properly done, the.irons clean and smooth, 
and the mind unperturbed by 'the groundless dread of ironing 
starched linen, there is no reason why the result should not be 
creditable to the ironer and satisfactory to the most fastidious 
wearer of linen. If a more glistening surface is desired, a little 
gum arable water may be mixed with the starch. A couple of 
ounces of the gum dissolved in boiling water, strained and 
bottled, will supply the laundry for several weeks, as a table- 
spoonful of the solution is sufficient for a quart of starch. 

Cleaning Black Silk 

Brush well, sponge with a solution of strong hot black tea, 
and when almost dry press between fine black cloth.— Mrs. Sirr. 

Good Starch 

Mix the starch with cold water, add boiling water until it 
thickens, then add a dessert spoon of sugar and a small piece of 
butter. This makes a nice glossy finish, equal to laundry.— Mrs, 
P. J. H. 



*' 



H 



y 



198 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



> 51 



\mL% 



\XM 




Tea Stains 

Fresh tea or cofl'ce stains can be removed by placing the 
stained part over a bowl and pouring boiling water through.— 
Mrs. T. Wood.s. 

Qrass Stains 

Kub butter on grass stains, then wash out in tepid water. 
-L. H. 

Furniture Polish 

Equal parts of boiled oil, spirits of turpentine, and enough 
vinegar to make a pint, add one ounce of lightning drier, 
shake into an emulsion and ke^-p air tight. Applv with a soft 
cloth.— Mr. A. E. Hunter. 

Ingredients for Compound Soap 

Seven pounds common bar soap, two pounds washing soda, 
one pound of unslacked lime, two ounces borax, one ounce alum, 
one ounce benzine. Put the lime and soda into a crock or wood- 
en pail and pour over them two gallons boiling soft water, stir 
well and let it stand over night. Cut the soap into thin slices, 
put it into a pot and pour the clear water oif the lime and soda 
over it, then let it get hot slowly till the soap is dissolved, stir- 
ring often, then take off the stove. Have the alum and borax 
dissolved in a little warm water, and stir into the soap as soon 
as it is taken from the stove. When the mixture is nearly cold 
add the benzine, stirring well; ready for use when cold. Use one 
pound of soap to seven gallons of water. Soak the clothes for a 
few hours in clear cold water. Have the soapy water scalding 
hot in the boiler when wet clothes that have been soaked and 
soaped, where necessary, are put in. If washing is small use 
soap and water accordingly.— Mrs. HalHday. 

To wash flannels make suds with cold soft water and soau. 
Wash with the hands in cold suds ; do not rub on washboard ; 
rinse with clear cold water and dry outside. 

Salt of lemon will take out iron rust. 

Powdered pumice stone removes tarter and stains of all 
kinds from the teeth, 

Benzoine tightens the skin, making the pores sm;iller, and 
removes wrinkles. 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



199 



Cleaning Black Lace 

Wash lace in English vinegar and press between l)rown 
paper.— Barney. 

To Wash Woollens 
To every pail ot Nvater add one tablespoon of ammonia and 
the same of beef gall, wash out quiekly and rinse in warm water, 
adding a verv little beef gall to the ri.ise water. This wdl re- 
move spots from earpets, making them look Iresh.-Mrs. I . J. 
Harrison. 
An Indian Remedy for Caked Breast or Swollen Glands 
Gather mullin leaves, saturate in hot vinegar, and apply to 
the skin very hot; eover with flannel and keep repeatmg until 
eured.-Mrs." I'. J. H. 

To Take Ink Out of Linen 
Dip the spotted part in pure tallow, melted, then wash out 
the tallow and the ink will disappear.-Mrs. Partridge. 

Cleansing Silver 
Never use soap on your silver if you wish it to retain its 
original lustre. Housekeepers ruin their silver in soap suds, as it 
makes it look like pewter. Use a pieee of soft leather and whiting 
and elbow grease.— Mrs. J. B. 

kjlack Calicoes 
Wash blaek percales or calicoes as usual, rinse in water 
with a strong solution of salt. This will prevent black from 
running, and also colors. 

Oil Paintings 
Oiled paintings should be oiled about once a year with a 
few drops of boiled linseed oil, taking care not to leave oil on in 
clots. A soft rag free from lint is the best to rub on oil with.- 
M. C. Harrison. 

Brine for Butter 
To five quarts water add about three cups salt and two 
tablespoons sugar, boil and let cool, then strain. If there is not 
enough brine for the amount of butter add some more water.- 
Mrs, Fitzeerald. '• ..-^ • - 



-Mi 



■* 



flftebical 2)epattmcnt 



1^,1 



Cough Remedy 

One ounce comtrey root, one ounce elecampane, one ounce 
pressed slippery elm bark. Boil thoroughly, settle, strain, add 
half pound white sugar, boil again. Take a little when needed. 
Half of this quantity is enough to boil up at once.— Mrs. J. H, 

Cough Cure, No. 2. 

Thirty grains muriate ammonia, half ounce paragoric, one 
ounce glycerine, two and a half ounces syrup wild cherry bark. 
Dose — One teaspoonful every hour; children in proportion, ac- 
cording to age. 

For Chapped Hands 

Equal parts of lamb suet, rendered, and glycerine, owe ounce 
of any kind of perfume. — Miss Sirr. 

Croup Cure 

One tablespoon water, nine drops carbolic acid, piit in cup 
and heat over a lamp, close door where child is and let breathe 
fumes. — Mrs. Martin. 

Cure For Boils 

Isaiah XXXVIII: 21.— Go thou and do likewise.— M. C. H. 
Toothache Cure 

Equal quantities of powdered alum and fine salt applied to 
the tooth will speedily relieve. — M. C. H. 

Recipe to Prevent Diphtheria 

At the first indication of diphtheria in the throat of a child 
make the room close, then take a tin cup and pour into it a 
small quantity of tar and turpentine, equal parts, then hold the 
cup over the fire so as to fill the air with the fumes. The little 
patient will cough and spit out all the membraneous ikatter and 
the diphtheria will pass out. 



B. Y. P. V. COOK BOOK. 



201 



H. 



1 



To Cure a Sting oil Bee or Wasp 

Mix common cartli with water to al>out the consistency of 

mud. Api»ly at once. 

Fever and Ague 

Four ounces galangal root in a .luart of gin steeped in a 
warm place; take often. 

. Lotion for Hands 
Five cents each worth of glycerine, rosewater and liquid 
camphor, one teaspoon powdered borax, juice of two lemons, 
half pint of rain water. 

Dandelion Wine 

Four (luarts of water, two quarts of dandelion flowers only. 

boil till quite soft, then strain, then add three and a half pounds 

ark su.nu-. three lemons sVced, boil for fifteen or twenty mtn- 

'u-s -r ocool. when luke warm add a cake of compressed 

yeas^. put the yeast on a slice of toast. This is a splendul tome. 

Hop Bitters 
Ouarter pound of hops, one ounce buchre leaves, one ounce 
pricklv ash, one ounce dandelion root, one ounce mandrake root, 
three quarts water, eight ounces alcohol. 

Pain Killer 
Half an ounce of oil of argonium, half an ounce of white 
opium, half an ounce of pulverised gum myrr, half an ounce of 
capsium. half an ounce gum camphor, half an ounce of o,l of 
hemlock, half an ounce of essence of peppermmt, one pint ajcoho,. 
Let it stand several days, or it may be used at once tf necessary. 

Cold on the Chest 
A flannel dipped in boiling water and sprinkled with tur- 
pentine and laid on the chest as quickly as possible will relieve 
the most severe cold or hoarseness. 

Corn Cure 
Strong acetic acid applied every night and morning will 
cure hard or soft corns in a week. 

'''"'Twe'tv'^TaL salicvlio ac, half ounce collodion. Apply 
for three or 'four nights, then remove corns with warm water. 



i 



i^iii^vwSi^i; 






202 B. Y. P. U. COOK HOOK. 






Caked Breast 

This is a Highkiiul Remedy. Bake large potatoes, put two 
or more in a woollen stocking, crush them soft nml apply to the 
Ijreast as hot as can be borne, repeat constantly till relieved. 

Rheumatic Cure 

Two drams liq. ammonia, three drams tincture aconite H, 
three drams tincture belladonna los., one ounce tincture arnica, 
one ounce alcohol, two ounces comp. soap liniment. Apply twice 
daily. 

Rheumatic Curk, No. 2. 

Four ounces alcohol, four ounces salad oil, two ounces of 
white wine vinegar, one ounce saltpeter, one ounce gum camphor, 
one ounce oil of hemlock, one ounce oil of cedar, one ounce of oil 
of laudanum. 

Rheumatic Cure, No. 3. 

One ounce of gum guiacum, one ounce saltpeter, one ounce 
sulphur, one ounce cream tartar, half an ounce jalap, mix with 
one quart gin. Dose— Half wine glass full wiih same quantity of 
hot water, three times a day before meals for three days, then 
only morning and evening before meals. Should the medicine 
purge too much take smaller quantity, but do not adulterate it. 
Do not keep in a cool ])lace. Take no other stimulant while 
taking this. Shake before taking. 

Rheumatic Cuke, No. 1. 

One egg, shell and all, one pint cider vinegar, one ounce 
spirts of wine, one ounce spirits of camphor, two ounces spirits 
of turpentine. Put into something so that it can be well shaken. 
Ready for use after forty-eight hours. 

Healing Lotion 

One ounce glycerine, one ounce rosewater, ten drops carbolic 
acid. This preparation prevents and cures chapjiing of the skin, 
and at the same time bleaches it. It is also excellent for sore 
lips and gums. It is an indispensable adjunct to the toilc ttable. 

Toothaclie Drops 

Equal parts of oil of cloves, oil of cinnamon, oil of sni >kc. 
Saturate a small piece of cotton and put in the cavitv of the 
tooth. 






n. Y. p. U. COOK BOOK. 



203 



Summer Complaint 

•Render a small piece of mutton and add a little salt; take 
fi. teaspoonful while hot. 

Preparation for Chapped hands 
Half gill cologne, half giU glycerine, half gill alcohol, one- 
eighth ourcc gum of tragacanth, one pint soft water. 

Toilet Cream 
One dram tr. benzoin, fifteen drops ac. carbolic, one ounce 
glycerine, one ounce rose water, one ounce lavender water. 

Curling Fluid 
Three and a half drams carbonate potash, one and three- 
quarter drams liq. -ammonia, seven drams glycerine, two and a 
half ounces alcohol. Mix and perfume. Apply and let dry. 



Ill' 







i5 A 



'»!KUaS>i0f.:-:t^«f»0t' 1 



'■'•MB-"''"r"T -r 



» • 




Essencee 




Wood Violet 

Twelve ounces cxtraet of orris, two ounce- »)f extract tube- 
. )se, one ounce extract of jessamine, four ounces extract of musk, 
two drams "f otto of burgamot, one dram otto of English laven- 
dar, ten drof* of otto of verbena, twelve drops of otto of bitter 
almonds, six di -ps of otto of coriander, four drops otto of sweet 
flag, four drops of otto of b.-iy leaves, one and a half drams of 
benzoic acid (from gum benzoinc), four ounces rose water, sufli- 
cient pure spirits to make four pints; mix them.— W. vS. T. 

Moss Rose 

Two dram'- of otto of rose virgin, two drams of otto of 
sanital flav., twelve ounces extract of musk, four our'-''- \tract 
of vanilla, two ounces extract of orris, four ounces extract of 
jessamine, four ounces of rose water, one dram benzoic (from 
gum bcnzionc). pure spirits sufficient to make four pints; mix 
them,— VV. vS. T. 

Jockey Club 

Five ounces extract of jessamine, twenty ounces extract of 
orris, seven ounces extract of musk, one and a half ounces extr.net 
of vanilla, one and a half drams of otto of rose virgin, one and 
a half drams otto of santal flav., two and a half drams of 
otto of bergamot, forty drops of otto of niroli super, two drams 
of benzioc acid (from gum benzionc), twenty-four ounces pure 
spirit (colonge spirit), four ounces rose water; mix them.— \N . S. T. 

Violet 

Two pints extract of orris, four ounces extract tuberose, 
three ounces extract vanilla, three ounces extract of musk, two 
ounces extract of tonka, one dram otto of rose virgin, forty 
drops of otto of neroli, super., twelve drops of otto of pimento, 
one drachm of otto of bergament, one drachm of benzoic acid 
(from gum benzoin), four ounces of rose water, pure spirits suffi- 
cient to make four pints; mix them.--W. S. T. 



Hwv^Vb Coohino 



NntiriAhing Drinks 

8uKT AND Milk foh Consumptivks. 

Boil one ounce of (n.Hy chopped suet w.th quarter of .. pmt 
of hot water for ten minntes. Press through .hecsc cloth, then 
add one teaspoonful bruised cinnamon, one ounce sugar, hree- 
nuarters pint of milk, l^oil again ten minutes and stram -om 
wineglassful to a .,«arter of u pint is the quant.ty to be taken 
at a time. It is a highly nutritive .nd fattening tood. but f* 
j?iven in excess it is apt to cause diarrhoea. 

CiNNA.UON WaTKR. . 

To half a stick of cinnamon use one piat bo.hng waier , 

boil fifteen minutes. This is used in cases of hemorrhage 

bowels or sick stomach. 

Arrowroot and Gruki'.. ... *• „.m, i 

One teaspoon raw arrowrc.l mixed with a cup ol gruel 

will sometimes stop diarrhoea. 

'^''''Tne^can tomatoes, one quart n ilk. one-third cup butter, three 
tablespoons Hour, one-quarter teasp< on pepper and salt. Stevv 
tomatoes until soft enough to strain . ■ sily ; use strained juice heat 
^rkin double boiler; melt butter, au ^ flour to ,t. and gradually 
add hot milk; cook ten minutes. To .trained tomatoes add ^oda 
and when the gas has passed oft add romatoes to milU. bervc 
with crouton or crackers. 

Cream of Celery Soup. . 

One head celery, one pint milk, or one cup milk and one of 
cream, pint water, one teaspoon onion, .ne tablespoon flour, one 
ciuh Teaspoon pepper, half teaspoon s. It. one tablespoon butter 
^^sh and scrape eelery, cut in half inch lices. cook m one pint 
alwavs one pint) of water until very sc t, mash through strain- 
er make a white sauce of butter, flou, and milk, reason add 
st;aTned celery and cream. Cook in douL e boiler until like thick 
cream. 



f i 



■ f f 



I'i 



" ; j 






206 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



I 
» f 




Egg, Miuk and Brandy. 

Half pint milk, one egg, one teaspoon sugar, one dessert- 
spoon brandy. Beat egg and sugar together in a glass until 
light, add the brandy and fill in with milk. The milk may first 
be sealded and allowed to eool. If this is done do not let it boil. 

Hot Milk and Soda. 

Half pint milk, one bottle soda water, sugar to taste. 
Bring milk almost to a boil, and pour at once into soda. This 
is excellent when there is acidity in stomach. 

Baklky Gruel. 

One ounce pearl barley, one quart cold water, a little lemon 
rind and juice, one ounce sugar. Boil barley a few minutes to 
thoroughly cleanse it, then strain and add one quart of water, 
boil one hour and add lemon and sugar. Very nice for fever 
patients. 

Rick Water. 

One large tablespoon washed rice, one i|uart cold water, 
rind and juice of one lemon. Sugar to taste. Put rice and quart 
of water into saucepan, boil one hour, add thinly cut lemon rind, 
also juice and sugar. Stand until cold then strain, 

Toast Water. 

One slice stale bread, one quart boiling water. Toast bread 
very slowly so as to brown all through. When brown put into 
jug and pour boiling water over it. Stand until cold then strain. 

Fla.\skkd Tea. 

Half cup flaxseed, one quart hot water, let boil half an 
hour, then set to one side when it will thicken in fifteen minutes. 
Sweeten and jidd lemon juice to taste. 

Hot Caudle. 

Half a pint of thin oatmeal gruel, yolk of one egg, half a 
wineglass brandy, ale or wine, sugar to taste. Mix yolk with a 
little cold water, add it to hot gruel, also wine and sugar. Serve 
at once. 

Llnseed Tea. 

Two tablespoons whole linseed, one quart water, one lemon, 
two ounces brown sugar, one tablespoon pudding raisins. Wash 
well the linseed, then boil in water half an hour. Put thinly cut 
lemon rind luvl sutrar in iuar and strain ten over it. St.infl till ;•!!!!]. 



B. Y. P. U. CuOK BOOK. 



207 



\ 



Linseed and Horehound. 

The same as linseed, only boil two large sprays of hore- 
hound with the linseed, or honey could be added in plaee ot sugar. 

Chicken Broth. ,, r ^ ^. • *. 

Skin chicken and cut in pieces, removing all fat, put mto 
two quarts of cold salted water, let simmer two or three hours 
skim off grease frequently, make paste of two tablespoons of 
flour and cold water, stir it in and let it boil ten minutes longer, 
season to taste. Strain before giving to typhoids. 

Beef Tea. . , , • t 

Cut one pound of nice lean beef into pieces about an inch 
square, soak in cold water for twenty-four hours, heat in double 
boiler to about 165°; do not allow to boil; it should be almost 
the color of port wine. Season with salt and pepper. Bay leaf 
or other seasoning may 'also be used. 

[T^e foregoing recipes for nourishing drinks have kindly 
been contributed by Miss Peters, head nurse at the Parry Sound 

Hospital.] 

Koumiss 



f*c 



Dissolve one-fourth of a two-cent cake of^ompressed yeast 
and two teaspoonfuls of white sugar in three tablcspoonfuls of 
lukewarm water, pour this into a quart bottle, and add sufh- 
cicnt fresh sweet milk to nearly fill. Shake well and place in a 
room of the temperature of 70° to 80° P., and allow it to fer- 
ment about six hours. Cork tightly and tie the cork in. Put in 
a cool place, not above 60°, and let it remain a week, when it 
will be readv for use. In making koumiss be sure that the milk 
is pure, the 'bottle sound, and the yeast fresh. Open the bottle 
with a champagne tap. If there is any curd or thickening re- 
sembling cheese, the fermentation has been prolonged beyond the 
proper point, and the koumiss should not be used. A great many 
physicians order this in typhoid cases.-Mrs. A. F. Cobb. 

Hartshorn Jelly 
Four ounces hartshorn shavings, one cpiart of" water. Boil 
over a gentle fire until one pint of the water is evaporated. 
Strain and add lemon juice, sugar and wine. This forms, either 
with or without the last named ingredients, a very nourishing 
diet for convalescents, and when mixed with an equal portion ot 
milk is well adapted to the bowel complaints of chddren.-Mrs. 
. T. Smith. 



/ 




>' ' f 



/3 



«*„, iiiM^km0-'k;, ,i > m^« mimi i m 'im'^ t riM'mWmai!'^- 



« t, pt 



m 





208 



B. Y. P. U. COOK BOOK. 



Beef Jelly 

Three small onions, one carrot, a few whole cloves and 
black peppers, one small teaspoon of sugar, one slice of ham, two 
calves' feet, one pound of very tender beef. Put the onions and 
other ingredients in first, then the calves' feet, next the ham and 
lastly the beef, add less than half a cup of water, placing on the 
back of the range until all is dissolved into a soft mass, then 
add one quart of water and let boil one hour ; strain and let 
stand over night, then skim off the fat. Use bj' dissolving a little 
in hot water. — Mrs. McNeill, Depot Harbor. 

Milk for Infants 

One part cow's milk, two parts water, as much loaf sugar as 
may be agreeable. It is necessary when children are to be raised 
by the hand to dilute the milk. The proportions may be altered 
as the child advances in age. The object is to makflhi diet as 
nearly like the maternal milk as possible. — Wahsuh. 

Beef Tea 

One pounHk^au beef cut into shreds, one quart water, boil 
it twenty minutes, taking off the scum as it rises. After it grows 
cold strain the liquor. This preparation is more nourishing than 
ordinary broths, and very palatable. — Mis. P. Turner. 

Rice Gruel 

One ounce ground rice, one dram cinnamon, one quart 
water. Boil for forty minutes, adding the aromatic near the con- 
clusion. Strain and sweeten. Wine may be added if necessary.— 
Mrs. R. Ferris. 

Barley Water 

Put a large tablespoonful of well washed pearl barley into 
a pitcher, pour boiling water over it, cover and let remain till 
cold, then drain off the water. Sweeten to taste, and if liked add 
the juice of a lemon and grated nutmeg.— Mrs. Thos. Maxwell. 



n^-J 




cJ du^c ^' 



A 






^ 







r 

'i 




/U^/Ui^JvMa a/M^^^ ^r^'^^^AJ i» 

■■■•■' >» 



A c«/< 






^ /7 ^_J-~/Jllc^M 



■?%^Mlv*i. . i»....J- 



£li)«*H«rt<|i(IPi.'«ll««**>. . 



i : .4,-4' ' 

if 



mii 



if' 



'1: 



}h - 







■If! 



. t'^ 



:'1, 












,1^0^ /^Q-^ 4-^^^^ 



A 



tuA 











i;^l 



*^ 



/:^^ 







S 



^^. 






|: 






l^ suMll 







> 4i4M&f-,x, 



1: 



■'V 



4 



4 



CaM 
















y 





-^^^f 



...<p^ 









.^1,,,-juU <}i\<x<..uk/r^v^ 










5 







■/^•^/^i 



5^^A-1^ 




'^^-/,/f'^-:^:/r^^^ 












;i 



iM'ueJtc 










't-t-t-c/ 



d ^-^jn^^-C/^ 












^..j^.^^^^ f 






:x^'¥- 






4 



4-^^^^ 



"^:, 



-JSSk 



.ff ,,7a i B >< ^» >i :.;.< i ^wujiitii i iM_iiaiM y K»WniTii»tf i >,yji i-, Mi r i i ^^ 



..<Wf: 



■r\,- 



d 



^ ^*^*i-fyA<i^ . C^^t-*^" 




?.-^<'/ '^ 








1 



II 



^. 



i' 







D 



H/L 



'r -Llit/.,^ i^^c^'iKj'^- <':^f-f^^ 

^ <Y— e^«^/\ lyj-^yc^e lyiffTATt 





'!Ut 



/- 



f<:r4.ci ■ 






I 



/ ^ 



L.// 

/? 



^7 



"--^e^t-Oir ^Z-'^^:.^!^ oc^'c_ 






^ ' ' I 



:£^^ 









/A 







3/^ C4A^ 











^^txtx^ ^ 



-t^ 



*/•■ 






/W^ 



/w/Z^i^ -^'^^^ 









's 



/t-^/^ 



^...c^^^J^ .^^^^ ^^/^-^^ /-^ 






>c^t/^ 



L 






^. 



-A 



L: 



'^^y^4^ld^ietryi^ 







^ ' , ~ — r if r — — — 










S 



iHiA. 




'"«t^ 



''0)t«ir,'«<»tcfM^^ii^:i..':' ,^;-'^lltt>W-^i.»r-;»«)||tit^'^ 



m'''^' 



m 



n M 



hi 

m 



u. 



"> 



/rUL 




■ ^ 




. 10 7 ftO-vli^fL.*^^'^ - 




\ 




X (/7^ d<^f^ iM^4 





d^^^ ^, i^y-4^ A^' ^^^^ w. '^A^ 



^HA. 







>aJi. 



4^i^zA-^ 













<% 



m^>.^'»M^-v4 






■MMiMi 



)^ffA/yi\. ^^ 



!/ '^Hir^ 





/iA^~l>^i^^v<\^ , ^A^-4^A£^ 



/fi^tA . a4i .j^^ A ^- 4/U.. ti a/^-gl/- 



/J" 



I 



yiA.^'hjL^t^ ^(AJ~iK>^^-yTnA ^Z\J? ^X^j:^^> dl^t^. 



/ 



^^^^-y^.^.^^^wt^ 



m/- /d^^^^^ 



/ 



f 



^ /iA^t^AyKiyi 







''^'<-^2M/^-w^ OAA.. C^^Ja^^^^y ^y^^t.^ /O/la^. \ 



J\>UL 







^e-M. 








.Xfz^. ,xMA^^<5^ ^^fo-l/ /y (n^i^C'^i'^v^^tAt^ 



ObM d. 










^i^tyl^t^^ 



i 






I 




■4t k 



' (• 



rs..>4^'' 



.^f*^ 



III 






'l f t( J 




















:^ {.i.#i4^. .-^^--cM, ■/^<^^'-'^--. . ■ ■■/ / 



/■ 



.''-V-. 



J-//: 



,'X.^- 



aM. 






..'' 



■ 1 



k 



A 




i 



r-'V * . mi^^^^M^ "^ 



■Afi 






'tL 



/ 






\,yi^U^ ^ 



W hi 



/ 



/ ■ 



i 



i 



Wt -^ 



.1/ ; 



/ 



/ 



'H. 




■Hi 



/^p/l (PI A'^i 



V 






■\ n fy. 









A ■' -1 



t 



. .'ttii-;: IS^ 



^^•fwBN.« » ij'u.w ii i«fa <iiwwgaa^^ aite-.^i»wM g S»& .T4 f^^ ■; 



Ml 



v^ 



qiea/ii i-^. (f'lA <?/ \^-n(i^ U '^ ^^-^ 



i'. 



{ -. 






1 



H 






^. '// 






^4 '-) /(. c!^- ■ ■ ■^- 



■'( \Ai^f\ K 









^7^/!^'..-x I C-f/^f^ '> , 



i' ^ /.^ /,r / , .yv (^ 






^^ 









4, 






',«*-i'*'? 









-/ / 



1 \ 






. A 



Y'ic;. ; 



/ ' 






,< yffi^ 



''■i 



y*^ 



/ 



C>i 



( ./ < / 



/ 



j/r^ 



-^ < ( 



/^ 



A. 



i I , ( -/'^'•/••^"/l / y/./U//-r; 



/■'"■'> : C-1- 




L 



7. 



' N 



7- U 








■nil'- 














1^ J/"- 





a 



H^tf^i^CC 






s- 




JJiOi SiA i 






''cX.-i- 



1 ( '-^^ </^. 



4. 






f ' / 







^/ 




jeo«^^ 



^ (hx^ct/- cJidfy^ a^v^ >!^ 0^^ 

^.e,^ tirv-^^ tL^.^-^^. &r9-f '!t^'<-^ ^^^-"^-^ 





"^ rfj;":^:!:^ £^^^ 









i 



# 



fli^^^ 



^\. 




Ciuyfl /^ V ^^^/ ^ M^-. .^'^ 




^^PVr 



<f 






t^ -^A, ^^.M^ ^^^^ ^:^a.4^ 



<" 






'^CXri4rt ^^Xl^f>Ctx /Q^^^/r /^ ' /^ "^ 



•h 



/lLiy<9>L( 



M4i^^^ 



-e^cr rpi^JUt4^^ 








\ 

f 








7) 



t^^ 




4 








■iM.. 






TLOAn/n^ 




hi^Uk I ^ -'^^'^ 



nC,i^ ' 



( 












"^.-^^ f^-^^^ 



«^4 



^- • 









-VA 



/>,-? /- i 1- \ 






C^&a.^ 



'\ 



s ./-^^-^ 






\ 



lew 



^ ^^^ 









/c^ 









mtm* 





* i li w m w " » t^: . f s-^" 




V ^ Ai<>- ^ / c 







^r u^. .^ / .,/ / V ^^ ./^ />>;- 

ict .• ,/ // ., . '^ f ^^^ 'Y t^-\. ■ \Jl^<l.^L^t^^ 



I 



■ Jr:^^-v4-^-^/^ ^^./■ily<, ,^^ 



^^iii 






-^^^.z^- , /-. 



^ 



• /^/' 



-^^-^.>y%V 




















!= 



S 




DIPHTHEKIA. 

Sir— About two years ago an acci- 
dent revoaled to me a disinfectant that 
has an pxtraonh'nary controlling 
power over diphtheria— Cresolene. I 
know neitlier its origin or ooniposition, 
but I do know that it has cured many 
cases of diphtiu.ria. Tliave se;Mi since. 
It is absulutely safe, does not interfere 
with other ti'eatinent, and is easy of 
application. 

A lent i- tobcbuiitrotuidthebed with 
sheets, (he vaporizer inside it, the 
lamp lifjhted. and the receiver over the 
lamp ke .t constantly half full of Creso- 
lene, so that the patient shall be in a 
vapor of Cresolene day and night. 
This will give complete relief in less 
than 24 hours. I shall now briefly re- 
late the [.articulars of the last case I 
had under my care. A boy, about 
four years of age, was put to bed ap- 
parently quite well. Next morning he 
was ibundd'.ill and heavy, was roused 
with difficulty, and refused all food 
and drink. When I ^nw him at 4 p.m. 
he lay in the same dull stati\ his neck 
awollcTi on Itoth sides as if vvith 
mumps his ui)per lip double its size, 
and his face a livid purple color. Ho 
nev(>r I'oused up to notice anything: 
until I took him out of bed and forced 
(jju-n his mouth to see his throat, the 
right side of which showed a large 
patch of diphtheria mendirane. I 
never' ( xpected the child could live, 
but ordered one drop of tincture of 
steel in water every hour, and Creso- 
lene to be used freely. At one o'clock 
or in about eight hours, the child 
asked foi- a drink ; at nine o'clock the 
next morning he wanted to get up ; 
and at 10 a.m. I f3und him convales- 
cent. Of coinse f give no technical 
details in your paper. I take the un- 
usual course of pul)lishing it in vour 
journal, because it will thus be brought 
directly before the public without loss 
of time, whereas in a medical paper it 
would probably leceive no notice un- 
less I were to i>uMish a detailed report 
of some hundred cases. It would take 
some live years to collect these, and all 
this time cases would perish that 
might be saved. Is is perfectly safe 
;inrl rlo( ■; Tiot interfere with anv oth"— 
treatment, therefore 1 press it on the 
public, I have no interest whatever in 
</resolen(!. 

^ Yours etc., 

M. D. . 



SHALLPOX ePIDEHIC 



Aa there appears to be danger o^ 
smallpox spreading erery one should' 
have a Vapo-Cresolene outfit in the 
house. By biirning this at night it 
acts as a disinfectant aiul destroys the 
germs which may be brought into the 
house. The use of Vapo-Cresloene is a 
good way to guard against contagious 
diseases which may be in the ueighborr 
hood. The following is an article 
taken from the London (England) 
Morning Post, and tends to show the 
value of Vapo-Cresolene as a disinfec- 
tant and also the controlling power it 
has over a contagious disease like diph- 
theria : 






PNEUMONIA CURE 

. f 

In view of the prevalence of pneu- 
monia to such an alarming extent, and | 
the many deaths resulting therefrom, N# 
1 send you the following for publico- 1 "* ' 
tion :— I 

Take six to ten onions, according to ' " ■ 
size, and chop fine, put in a large spider 
over a hot fire ; then add about the 
same cpiantity of rye meal, and vinej^ I 
to make it a thick paste. ^ j' , ,' 

In the meantime stir it thoroughly, i 
letting it simnun' for five or ten mtii- 
utes. Then put in a cotton bag large i 
enough to cover the lungs, and apply 
it to the chest as hot as the patient 
can bear. When it gets cool apply 
another, and thus continue by reheat- \. 
ing the poultices. In a few hours the' 
patient will be out of danger. | 

Usually three or four applications' 
will be sufficient, but continue always ]i 
until perspiration starts freely from| « 
the chest. "| -^ 

This simple remedy was fornndatedj I 
niauy years ago by one of the best I i 
physicians New England has ever; '.j' 
known, who has never lost a patient I 'j^k 
by this diseajse. ^ H 



i4^.j,-.i*.»».., 




