Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



The Arthur and Elizabeth 

SCHLESINGER LIBRARY 

on the History of Women 

in America 

RADCLIFFE COLLEGE 




Gift of Eleanor Appell 



. .« 



■^ 



GESINE I.EMCKE. 



DESSERTS AND 

SALADS 



BY 



GESINE LEMCKE 



AUTHOR OF 

TECB XUBOPXAir AKD AMXRIOAN OUI8IKK, AND OHAFIKO-DIBH BSGIPB8 

PBUrOIPAL AND OWNBB OF THS BEOOKLTM AKD KBW TOBK COOKING OOLLBOBS 



''Eating is a Necessity, 
But Cooking is an Art." 



NINTH EDITION 



NEW YORK 
PUBLISHED FOR THE AUTHOR 

1911 



6 - ■'■ > -- 

\0i II 



OopTRiORT, 18B2, 18B6, 
Bt GESINE LEMCKE. 

^7- ess' 



PREFACE. 



T ASK every one who may become possessed of 
this book to read the recipes herein contained 
carefully and thoughtfully before attempting the mak- 
ing of any of them, and also to observe the following 
instructions : 

Weigh and measure all ingredients exactly, and 
have everything ready to mix before you commence. 

If you measure your ingredients by means of a 
cup be sure you use one which holds half a pint. 

Use neither more nor less of anything than the 
recipe instructs you, and be sure to have your fire 
just right, as also instructed by the recipe. 

If at first success does not come to you do not 
despair, but persist in following the advice of the 
old adage: "Try, try again." 

You should always bear in mind that honest 
work is never lost and that reward must come in the 
end 



Desserts and Salads. 



SAUCES. 



1. Wine Chaudeau. — ^Into a lined saucepan put K bottle 
Rhine wine, 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 teaspoonful cornstarch, the 
peel of H lemon and the yolks of 6 eggs ; place the saucepan over a 
medium hot fire and beat the contents with an egg beater until 
just at boiling point ; then instantly remove from the fire, beat a 
minute longer, pour into a sauce bowl and serve with boiled or 
baked pudding. 

2. White Wine Sauce. — Over the fire place a saucepan con- 
taining 2 cups white wine, 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 3 whole eggs, the 
yolks of 4 eggs and the peel and juice of 1 lemon ; beat the contents 
of saucepan with an egg beater until nearly boiling; then instantly 
remove and serve. 

3. Wine Cream Sauce. — H bottle white wine, H teaspoon- 
ful cornstarch, 3 eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately), 4 table- 
spoonfuls sugar and the peel and juice of H lemon ; put all the ingre- 
dients except the whites of eggs in saucepan ; beat with an egg beater 
until just about to boil ; then remove from fire ; have the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth ; add them to the sauce, beat for a minute 
longer and then serve. 

4. Claret Sauce. — ^Over the fire place a lined saucepan con- 
taining H bottle claret, 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 lemon cut 
into slices and freed of the pits, a piece of cinnamon and 1 small 
tablespoonful cornstarch mixed with water or wine; stir con- 
stantly until it comes to a boil ; then strain and serve. Or boil 1 
tablespoonful cornstarch in 1 >^ cups water, with piece of cinnamon 
and a few slices of lemon, for a few minutes ; then remove from the 
fire ; add H pint claret and sugar to taste. 



6 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

5. Bisbop Sauce. — ^Boil2 ounces of sago in 2 cups water, with 1 
tablespoonful fine minced or ground bitter almonds, a piece of cin- 
namon and the peel of 1 lemon ; when sago is done strain it through 
a sieve, add 1 H cups claret, H pound sugar and 1 teaspoonf ul of 
bishop essence. 

6. Madeira Saace^ No. 1. — Set a small saucepan on the stove 
with the yolks of 3 eggs, 1 cup Madeira and 2 tablespoonfuls sugar ; 
stir until it comes to a boil ; then remove from fire and add by de- 
grees 4 tablespoonfuls sweet cream, stirring constantly, and serve. 

7. Madeira Sauce^ No. 2. — Mix 1 tablespoonful flour with 
1 }4 spoonfuls butter ; add 1 H cups boiling water ; boil 3 minutes, 
stin-ing constantly ; remove from the fire, add H cup Madeira and 
3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

8. Butter Sauce. — ^In a small saucepan mix 1 tablespoonful 
flour with a little cold water ; add by degrees 1 cup of boiling water, 
stirring constantly; set the saucepan over the fire, add 1 heaping tab* 
lespoonful butter in small pieces; continue stirring and boil for a few 
minutes. 

9. Sherry Wine Sauce^ No. 1.— Add to the Butter Sauce H 
cup sugar and H pint sherry wine. 

10. Sherry Wine Sauce^ No. 2.— 1 cup sherry wine, H 

cup water, the yolks of 3 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar and the 
grated rind of H lemon; put all the ingredients in a small 
saucepan over the fire and keep stirring until the sauce begins to 
thicken ; then take it off; if allowed to boil it will be spoiled, as it will 
immediately curdle ; beat the whites to a stiff froth, stir them into 
the sauce and serve. 

11. Sherry Wine Sauce^ No. 3. — Melt in a small saucepan 
1 tablespoonful butter; add 1 teaspoonf ul flour; when well mixed 
add 1 cup sherry wine, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar and the yolks of 4 
eggs ; stir briskly until the sauce is on the point of boiling ; then 
instantly remove and serve with plum or bread pudding.- 



SAUCES. 7 

« 

12. Wine or Brandy Sauce. — ^Prepare 1 cup Butter Sauce, 

sweeten it with sugar, add 1 glass brandy, port or sherry wine, a 
little lemon juice and nutmeg. 

13. Arrack Sauce (Allemande). — Mix 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

with some white wine ; add in small pieces 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
peel and juice of }i lemon and 2 cups white wine ; place a saucepan 
containing the ingredients over the fire and stir until it comes to a 
boil ; remove from the fire, add 1 cup arrack and 1 cup sugar. 

14. Arrack Sauce (English). — ^Put in a small saucepan 1 

tablespoonf ul flour mixed with a little cold water, the yolks of 3 
eggs, 1 tablespoonf ul butter, a piece of cinnamon, a little lemon 
peel, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar and IH cups water; set saucepan over 
the fire, stir constantly until it commences to boil ; then instantly 
remove from the stove, add a little lemon juice and H cup arrack. 
This sauce can be made with any kind of wine or brandy. 

16. Brandy Sauce (with Milk, ^^English Style*')-— P"t 

in a small saucepan 1 cup milk, the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon- 
f ul sugar and a little grated lemon peel ; stir over the fire till the 
sauce is at boiling point ; instantly remove and add 3 tablespoonfuls 
brandy; serve with plum pudding. 

16. Brandy Sauce (American), No. l.^-^tir 4 tablespoonfuls 

powdered sugar with 1 H spoonfuls butter to a cream*; add by degrees 
the yolks of 2 eggs, H cup boiling water and H cup brandy ; put 
all the ingredients in a tin cup and set it in a saucepan of hot water ; 
stir until the sauce is boiling hot ; flavor with nutmeg and vanilla. 
This sauce may be made of wine in the same manner. 

17. Brandy Sauce, No. 2. — Beat 1 tablespoonful butter with 

6 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar to a cream ; add by degrees 1 wine- 
glassful of brandy, 3 tablespoonfuls boiling water and a little nut- 
meg ; put the sauce into a tin cup, set in saucepan of boiling water 
and stir until the sauce is hot ; but do not allow it to boil. 

18. Punch Sauce. — Place a small vessel on the stove with 1 
cup of rum, 2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, the grated rind of H 



8 DESERTS AND SALM>S. 

an orange and 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla esaenoe ; let it remain over the 
fire until the liquor catches a light flame ; put on the lid for 1 
minute; then remove it from the fire, add the juice of 1 orange and 
serve hot. This sauce is usallj poured over the pudding. 

19. Bam Sauce. — Mix H tablespoonful flour with a piece of 
butter the size of an egg; add 1 cup boiling water ; when well 
mixed together add H cup Rhine wine, the peel and juice of H 
lemon, 4 tablespoonf uls sugar, a piece of cinnamon and the yolks of 
3 eggs; place in a saucepan over the fire and beat with an egg beater 
till the sauce comes to a boil; instantly remove and add H cuprum. 
In place of rum, brandy may be used. Note. — ^The eggs may be 
omitted and 1 tablespoonful flour used instead of H. 

20. Sauce h la Diaz. — ^Place a tin pan over the fire with 1 cup 
rum, H cup Marella wine, 3 tablespoonf uls sugar, the grated rind 
of 1 orange and 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla; leave the pan on the stove 
until the liquor takes fire ; then cover quickly ; boil 1 minute ; draw 
it from the fire to the side of the stove ; let it stand a few minutes ; 
then strain into a bowl ; cover tightly and when cold pour it over 
the pudding. 

21. Wine Chaudeau (with Rum). — Place a saucepan on the 
stove with 1 teaspoonf ul cornstarch mixed with a little cold water ; 
add 2 whole eggs, the yolks of 2 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, a 
little lemon juice, some grated orange peel, H bottle Rhine wine 
and 2 glasses of rum ; stir with an egg beater until just about to 
boil ; then instantly remove from the fire, stir for a few minutes 
longer and serve. Any other kind of liquor may be used instead of 
rum. 

22. Wine Sauce (with Almonds and Raisins).— Put a 

small vessel over the fire with H bottle claret, 3 tablespoonfuls 
ground almonds, 3 tablespoonfuls raisins, a piece of cinnamon, 4 
tablespoonfuls sugar and the peel of 1 lemon ; stir until it boils ; then 
remove from the fire, take out cinnamon and lemon peel and serve. 

23. Hard Sauce. — Stir K pound butter with 8 tablespoonfuls 
powdered sugar to a cream until it looks white ; add by degrees 1 



SAUCES. 9 

Bmall glass of brandy (and, if liked, a little nutmeg) ; the yolks of 2 
eggs may also be beaten through the sauce. 

24. Hard Sauce (with Cherries). — ^Make a hard sauce with 
the yolks of 2 eggs and put some nice, ripe cherries (without the 
pits) into it ; stir the whole well together and serve with suet pud- 
ding or dumplings. Blackberries, peaches or plums may be used in- 
stead of cherries. 

26. Strawberry Saace. — Boil in a saucepan 2 teaspoonfuls 
eornstarcli in 1 >i cups water with the rind of 1 lemon ; take it from 
the fire, add 1 cup strawberry juice, a little Rhine wine or claret 
and sweeten with sugar. 

26. Sauce of Apricots. — Boil 3 tablespoonfuls apricot marme- 
lade with 1 tablespoonful butter and H cup water 5 minutes ; add 
2 tablespoonfuls brandy and serve with boiled suet, batter pudding 
or apple dumplings. 

27. Sauce of Cherries, No. 1. — Place in a saucepan 1 cup 
sugar, 1 cup water and H cup claret ; when this boils add 1 pint of 
ri|)e cherries (without the pits) ; boil them 10 minutes ; then take 
out the cherries and mix 1 teaspoonf ul cornstarch with a little water ; 
add it to the sauce, boil a minute, strain and put cherries back into 
the sauce ; serve cold. 

28. Sauce of Cherries, No. 2. — Remove the pits from H 
pound ripe cherries ; put the stones into a mortar and pound them fine ; 
j>ut them, with the cherries, 1 pint water and a piece of cinnamon, 
in a saucepan ; add ^ cup sugar and boil slowly H hour ; strain 
and thicken the sauce with 2 teaspoonfuls cornstarch ; boil a minute, 
add i4 cup claret and serve. 

29. Strawberry Hard Sauce. — Stir 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

to a cream with 1 cup powdered sugar ; add the yolks of 2 eggs ; 
beat until very light and stir 1 cup nice, ripe strawberries through 
it ; put the sauce in a glass dish, cover with the beaten whites of 2 
eggs and put some nice strawberries on top of the sauce. Any 
other kind of fruit may be used instead of strawberries. Or stir }4 



10 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

cup butter with 1 cup powdered sugar to a cream ; add the beaten 
white of 1 egg and 1 cup thoroughly mashed strawberries. 

30. Raspberry Sance^ No. 1. — Put in a small saucepan the 
peel of 1 lemon, a little piece of cinnamon, 1 cup water and 1 
spoonful sugar; boil 5 minutes; mix 2 teaspoonfuls cornstarch with 
some cold water ; add it to the contents of saucepan ; boil a minute ; 
add 1 cup raspberry juice or syrup and serve either hot or cold. 

31 • Raspberry Sance^ No. 2. — Set a saucepan on the stove with 
1 H cups raspberry juice, H cup water, the juice and peel of 1 lemon, 
sugar to taste, 1 teaspoonf ul cornstarch and the yolks of 3 eggs ; 
beat constantly with ^n egg beater until it comes to a boil ; quickly 
remove it from the fire ; beat for a few minutes longer ; beat the 
whites of the 3 eggs to a stiff froth and stir them into the sauce. 

33. Hnckleberry Sance. — ^Put the huckleberries with a little 
water in a saucepan over the fire ; boil slowly for H hour ; then 
strain through a sieve, sweeten with sugar and thicken with a little 
cornstarch ; add a few tablespoonf uls port wine or a little lemon 
juice and claret ; serve cold. 

33. Sance of Dried Cherries. — Wash l pound dried cherries ; 

put them into a mortar and pound fine; place them in a sauce- 
pan with 3 or 4 cups water over the fire ; add a few zwiebacks, a 
piece of cinnamon and boil 1 hour; strain through a sieve, add a 
little claret and lemon juice and sweeten with sugar. 

34. Nut Sauce. — Stir l tablespoonf ul butter with 5 tablespoon- 
f uls powdered sugar to a cream ; add the yolks of 2 eggs and a few 
spoonfuls of water ; put it in a tin pail ; set in a vessel of hot water ; 
stir until hot ; remove the sauce from the fire, add H cup fine, 
minced almonds and flavor with vanilla. Fine, chopped, stoned 
raisins may be used instead of almonds. 

35. Hard Sauce (with Nuts). — Prepare a hard sauce of 1 
tablespoonf ul butter and 5 tablespoonf uls powdered sugar; beat this 
until white ; add by degrees the yolks of 2 eggs ; beat the whites of 
2 eggs to, a stiff froth ; add the sauce gradually to the whites ; beat 



SAUCES. 1 1 

constantly with an egg beater; and lastly add 1 cup pounded or 
ground nuts, almonds, walnuts, hazel or hickory nuts. The nuts 
may be finely chopped if more convenient. This sauce may be 
prepared in the same manner with peaches, apricots (peeled and cut 
into pieces) or preserved pineapple. 

36. Strawberry Cnstard Sance. — Place a small saucepan on 

the stove - with 1 pint milk, the yolks of 2 eggs and 2 tablespoon- 
f uls sugar ; stir constantly until it comes to a boil ; instantly remove 
from the fire, flavor with vanilla and set it away to cool ; then stir 1 
cup strawberries into it ; beat the whites of the 2 eggs to a stiff 
froth and put it on top of the sauce. This sauce is excellent with 
strawberry shortcake. Note. — Any kind of fruit may be substi- 
tuted for strawberries. 

37. Fruit Sance (not boiled). — Stir l cup raspberry juice 
and 1 of currants with 8 tablespoonf uls sugar for 20 minutes ; serve 
with cold puddings. Or boil 2 teaspoonfuls comstarch^in water for 
a few minutes ; sweeten with sugar ; thin it with raspberry, currant 
or cherry juice ; add a little Rhine wine and serve with cold pud- 
ding. This sauce is exceedingly nice when made of strawberries 
with the addition of the juice of 1 orange and a little grated skin. 

38. Peach Sance^ No. 1. — To be served cold. Pare and cut 
in halves ^ dozen peaches ; stew them in sugar syrup ; press them 
through a sieve ; thicken them with a little arrowroot or cornstarch ; 
boil a minute, add a little white wine and serve. Or boil the 
peaches (after they are peeled and free from the stones) in sugar 
syrup until tender ; then take them out, put in a dish, cut each half 
into 4 pieces and pour the liquor over them ; then serve with tapioca 
pudding. 

39. Peach Sance^ No. 2. — Beat l tablespoonful butter with 4 
tablespoonf uls powdered sugar to a cream ; add the yolks of 2 eggs ; 
beat until very light and creamy ; then beat the whites of the 2 eggs 
to a stiff froth ; add the sauce to them by degrees ; keep on beating 
with an egg beater until all is well mixed together and stir 1 cup of 
fine, cut peaches through it ; serve with boiled pudding. 



12 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

40. Sauce of Cnrrants^nd Baspberries.— Wash H pound 

red currants and raspberries ; sprinkle with sugar and let them 
stand a hour; prepare a sauce the same as for Peach Sauce and stir 
the fruit through it. 

41. Cream Sance (with Jelly)^ No. 1.— Stir i cup currant 

jelly until smooth ; add 1 cup rich, sweet cream and beat with an 
egg beater to a froth ; add a little arrack rum or Cognac and serve 
with cold pudding. 

42. Cream Sance (with Jelly)^ No. 2.— Beat H cup fruit 

jelly and the whites of 2 eggs to a stiff froth and serve with cold 
pudding. 

43* Lemon Sance^ No. 1. — Stir 1 tablespoonf ul butter with 

4 tablespoonf uls powdered sugar to a cream ; add by degrees 1 
beaten egg^ the juice and grated rind of H lemon, a little nutmeg 
and 4 tablespoonf uls boiling water ; beat the sauce thoroughly for 

5 minutes ; put in a tin pail and set in saucepan of hot water ; stir 
constantly until very hot, but do not allow it to boil. 

44. Lemon Costard Sance. — Place a saucepan jvith 1 pint 
milk, 3 whole eggs and 3 tablespoonfn]^ ragar over ihe fire and stir 
until it just comes to the boiling point ; quickly remove, pour sauce 
into a dish, flavor with lemon essence and serve cold with cold 
pudding. 

45. Lemon Sance (with Liqnor). — Melt in a saucepan 1 tab- 
lespoonf ul butter; add H tablespoonf ul flour; when well mixed pour 
in 1 cup boiling water; boil 2 minutes; remove from the fire, pour 
sauce into a bowl; add the juice of H lemon, a little nutmeg and a 
glass of brandy; sweeten with sugar and serve hot. Very nice 
with rolly-poly pudding or apple dumplings. Sherry or Madeira 
wine may be used instead of brandy. 

46. Sance & I'Orange. — Stir the yolks of 4 eggs with 2 table- 
spoonfuls powdered sugar to a cream ; add by degrees 1 cup sweet 
cream and stir constantly; add the grated rind of 1 orange; put the 
whole in a tin cup or pail, set in a vessel of hot water and stir all 



SAUCES. 13 

the time until it is on the point of boiling; then instantly remove 
from the fire, strain through a sieve over the pudding and serve hot. 

47« Sauce an Kirsch. — ^Boil 1 teaspoonful cornstarch in 1 cup 
water; sweeten with 2 tablespoonfuls sugar; add 2 tablespoonfuls 
kirsch and serve. 

48. Lemon Sauce^ No. 2. — ^Mix 2 teaspoonfuls flour with a 
little cold water; put it in a saucepan; add 1 pint boiling water, 1 
tablespoonf ul butter and H cup sugar ; stir until the sauce boils ; 
then remove from the fire, add the juice of 1 lemon and a little of 
the grated rind and nutmeg. 

49. Lemon Cream 8ance« — Put in a tin pail or cup i H cups 

milk, the yolks of 2 eggs and 2 tablespoonfuls sugar; set in a vessel 
of hot water ; beat with an egg beater until the sauce comes 
to a boil ; remove from the fire ; add }i teaspoonful lemon essence ; 
beat the whites to a stiff froth and stir them into the sauce. 

50. Almond Sance. — ^Remove the brown skin of 2 ounces of 
almonds, ground or chopped fine ; put them in a saucepan with 2 
cups milk, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, the yolks of 3 eggs and 1 tea- 
spoonful of arrowroot; put the saucepan in a vessel of hot water; 
keep stirring until the sauce comes to a boil. Instead of almonds 
almond essence may be used; a little brandy may also be added if 
liked. 

51. Chocolate Sance* — ^Boil X pound grated chocolate with 
1 cup water and 3 tablespoonfuls sugar for 5 minutes ; beat up the 
yolks of 3 eggs with 1 H cups cold milk ; add it to the chocolate ; keep 
stirring until the sauce comes to a boil ; instantly take it from the 
fire, beat for a few minutes longer and pour it into a sauce bowl; 
serve cold with cold pudding. 

53. Chocolate Cream Sance* — ^Boil H pound grated choco- 
late with 1 cup water for 5 minutes ; add sugar to taste ; beat up the 
yolks of 3 eggs with 1 H cups sweet cream; add it to the chocolate; 
keep stirring until nearly boiling; remove from fire, add some 
vanilla essence and the beaten whites of the 3 eggs* 



14 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

53. Yanilla Cream Sauce. — ^Put in a saucepan 2 cups sweet 

cream, 2 or 3 tablespoonf uls sugar, 2 whole eggs and the yolks of 
2 eggs; set the saucepan in a vessel of hot water; beat with an egg 
beater till the sauce just comes to the boiling point ; then instantly 
remove from the fire; do not allow the sauce to boil; flavor with 
vanilla extract and serve cold. 

54. Yanilla Sance. — ^Put in a tin cup or pail 2 cups milk and 

1 teaspoonf ul cornstarch ; add the yolks of 3 eggs and 2 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar; place the cup in a vessel of hot water; beat with an egg 
beater until it comes to a boil ; instantly remove ; pour the sauce into 
a sauci6re ; flavor with 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla and serve cold. Do not 
allow the sauce to boil or it will curdle. 

65. Sauce k la Cream (sweet).— Put in a tin pail 2 cups 

milk, the yolks of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonf uls sugar and 1 teaspoonful 
cornstarch ; set in a vessel of hot water ; stir constantly until it comes 
to a boil ; instantly remove ; flavor with vanilla ; beat the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth ; pour the sauce into a glass dish, spread the 
beaten whites over it and dust some powdered sugar over all. 

56. White Sauce. — Boil 2 teaspoonfuls arrowroot in 1 pint 
milk ; add 2 tablespoonf uls sugar and 1 teaspoonful lemon essence ; 
beat the white of 1 egg to a froth and stir it through the sauce 
when cold. 

57. Cream Sauce (plain). — Stir H tablespoonful butter with 

4 tablespoonf uls powdered sugar to a cream; boil 1 tablespoonful 
flour in 1 cup of water; pour it slowly into the creamed butter; 
keep on beating until the whole is well mixed; flavor with 1 tea- 
spoonful lemon essence and serve hot. 

58. Yanilla Sauce (plain). — ^Put in a saucepan 1 pint milk, 

I a teaspoonfuls cornstarch, sugar to taste and stir over the fire until 
it boils; flavor with 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence and serve when 
cold. 

69. Yanilla Sauce (with Cognac).— Stir 2 tablespoonf uls 

butter with 6 tablespoonf uls powdered sugar to a cream; add by 



SAUCES. 15 

degrees 3 tablespoonfuls Cognac, sherry or Madeira wine and H 
cup boiling water ; keep beating all the time ; put this in a tin pail 
and set in a vessel of hot water; keep stirring until hot, but do not 
allow it to boil ; remove from the fire and add 2 teaspoonf uls vanilla 
essence. 

60. Caramel Sauce. — ^Pnt 2 tablespoonfuls sugar in a sauce- 
pan over the fire ; let it get light brown ; add a little water; boil for 
a minute or two ; then pour it into a small saucepan ; add 1 H cups 
of milk or cream and the yolks of 2 eggs ; set the saucepan in a 
vessel of hot water; stir until it comes to a boil; remove from the 
fire and flavor with 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla. 

61. Coffee Cream Sauce. — ^Pour 2 cups boiling hot cream 

over 2 tablespoonfuls freshly ground coffee ; cover tightly and let it 
stand 10 minutes; then strain the cream through a fine sieve; put the 
cream in a small saucepan ; add the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonf ul 
cornstarch and 2 tablespoonfuls sugar ; put this over a moderate fire 
and stir until it comes to a boil ; remove from the stove, pour it into 
a sauce bowl and stir the beaten whites of the eggs through it ; serve 
cold. 

62. Nutmeg Sauce. — ^Mix 1 tablespoonful butter with 1 table- 
spoonful flour; add 2 cups boiling water and boil 5 minutes; sweeten 
with sugar and flavor with grated nutmeg. 

63. Orauge Cream Sauce. — Stir the yolks of 4 eggs with 1 }i 

tablespoonfuls sugar to a cream; add 1 teaspoonf ul butter, a little 
grated orange peel and H pint sweet cream or milk ; put the ingre- 
dients in a small saucepan over the fire and stir till boiling hot; 
when cold mix it with a few spoonfuls whipped cream. Lemon 
Sauce is made in the same manner. This sauce may also be flavored 
with vanilla or lemon extract. 

64. Sabayon Sauce. — ^Put the yolks of 4 eggs and 1 whole 
egg in a lined saucepan and beat them with an egg beater to a 
froth; add 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, a smaU piece of lemon peel, the 
juice of 1 lemon and H bottle of Rhine wine; 5 minutes before 



16 D£S£RTS AKD SALADS. 

eerving put the saucepan over the fire and beat constantly till boil- 
ing hot ; but do not allow it to boil ; serve at once. Sabayon of 
Madeira or Malaga wine without lemon juice is made the same way. 
If rum is added in place of wine it is then called Rum Sabayon 
Sauce. 

66. Strawberry Ghaadean Sauce.— Put 1 cup strawberry 

juice or syrup in a saucepan; sweeten to taste; add >i^ cup white 
wine and the yolks of 2 eggs ; beat this over the fire with an egg 
beater till it foams and rises up ; remove from the fire and mix it 
idth the beaten whites of 2 eggs ; serve with vanilla koch or soufl^. 

66. Pineapple Chaudean Sance.— Put 1 cup pineapple 

juice or syrup in a saucepan ; sweeten to taste ; add H cup white 
wine and the yolks of 2 eggs ; beat this over the fire with an egg 
beater till it f oa^is and rises up ; remove from the fire and mix it 
with the beaten whites of 2 eggs ; serve with vanilla koch or soufl^e. 

67. Raspberry Chaudean Sance is made the same as Straw- 
berry Chaudean Sauce. 

68. Cocoannt Snow Sance. — ^Beat the whites of 3 eggs to a 

stiff froth and boil 1 cup sugar with H cup water till it forms a 
thread between 2 fingers; then gradually pour it into the beaten 
whites, stirring constantly; next add 1 cup freshly grated co- 
coanut. 

69. Cocoannt Sance (another way]f.— Stir 2 tablespoonfuls 

butter with 1 cup powdered sugar to a cream ; add by degrees the 
yolks of 2 eggs ; then beat the whites to a stiff froth ; mix them 
with the sauce ; add H cup freshly grated cocoanut and serve with 
boiled pudding. 

70. Snow Sance (with orange flavor).— Beat the whites of 

2 eggs to a stiff froth ; boil a small cup of sugar with ^i cup water 
till it forms a thread between two fingers ; remove it from the fire ; 
add* the juice of 1 orange and gradually pour it while hot into the 
beaten whites, stirring constantly; add last a little grated rind of 



SYRUPS. 17 

orange and serve. Snow Sauce with lemon flavor is made the 
same way. 

71. Pistachio Sance. — Stir the yolks of 4 eggs with 1 pint 
sweet cream and 2 tablespoonfuls sugar over the fire till nearly 
boiling ; remove from fire ; add 2 ounces finely pounded pistachio 
nuts ; serve when ice cold with frozen pudding. 

12. Cold Pineapple Sance. — ^Pare and grate a small, ripe pine- 
apple ; press it through a sieve ; add 1 cup sugar and a glass of 
Rhine wine ; let it stand on ice for 1 hour and serve with frozen 
pudding. 

SYRUPS. 

73. Plain or Sngar Syrnp. — ^Dissolve 4 pounds white sugar, 
1 quart cold water and the beaten white of 1 egg;* stir until sugar is 
dissolved ; simmer for 3 minutes ; skim well, strain through a fine 
flannel bag and bottle in well corked bottles. 

74. Pineapple Syrnp. — Pare and cut some large, ripe pine- 
apples into small pieces ; put them in a stone jar or large bowl ; 
sprinkle a little sugar between and let the pineapples stand covered 
with a cloth in cellar for 36 hours, or until they have bubbles on 
top ; then strain through a sieve or coarse bag, and if not clear 
enough strain again through a flannel bag ; add to each pint of 
juice 1 pound of sugar ; stir until the sugar is melted ; then put it 
over the fire and simmer 3 minutes; skim and put the syrup in 
bottles ; cork well and keep them in cool place. This syrup may 
be thinned with 2 parts plain syrup. 

76. Strawberry Syrnp. — Choose none but fine, ripe berries 
if you wish your syrup to be good ; mash the strawberries in a stone 
jar or bowl ; cover with a thin white cloth and let them stand 24 
hours at a temperature of 70^ to 80^ F. ; then inclose in a flannel 
bag and press them ; add to each pint of juice 1 pound sugar ; stir 
until the sugar is dissolved ; then put it over the fire, let it boil up, 
skim well, remove from fire and bottle while hot. 



18 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

75a. Raspberry Syrup is made the ^me as strawberry. 

76. Raspberry and Cnrrant Syrnp. — ^Take equal quantities 

of raspberries and currants ; free the latter from stems ; put the fruit 
together into a stone jar or bowl, mash it up, cover with a cloth 
and let stand for .24 hours ; then inclose the fruit in a coarse bag, 
press out the juice and to each pint add 1 pound sugar ; let it boil 
up and bottle. 

77. Raspberry Syrnp (withont fruit).— To make 8 gallons 
of syrup prepare a plain syrup of 18 pounds sugar with 5 gallons of 
water and put it in a clean mixing barrel ; next dissolve 2 ounces 
tataric acid in 1 pint cold water and add it to the syrup ; then pour 
1 quart boiling water over 4 ounces powdered orrisroot ; let it get 
cold ; then filter ; add it also to the syrup and stir up well. Color 
it with the following mixture : Take H pound mallow or malva 
flowers and soak them in }4 gallon water for 6 hours ; then mash in 
a mortar 2 ounces cochineal and 2 ounces alum and pour over these 2 
quarts boiling water, and when cold filter ; next mix both colors 
together, add them to the syrup and stir for 15-20 minutes. This 
is an excellent recipe for imitation of raspberry syrup. 

78. Raspberry Syrnp (withont boiling). — ^Mash some ripe 

berries in a stone jar or bowl and set the paste for 3 days (covered 
with a Jinen cloth) in a cool cellar; then press out the juice through 
a coarse bag ; let it stand for 6 hours ; drain off the clear juice and 
leave the sediment ; add to 1 pint juice 1 pound sugar, stir for 1 
hour and bottle ; cork bottles loosely and set them for 4 days in the 
sun ; then filter through a fine flannel bag ; re-bottle the syrup in 
small bottles, cork well and cover corks with beeswax. Syrup made 
in this way is excellent for sauces. Strawberry and Currant Syrup 
without boiling is made in the same manner. 

79. Blackberry Syrnp. — Mash the blackberries in astonejar, 
cover and let them stand for 48 hours ; then strain them through a 
bag; add to each pint of juice 1 pound sugar; stir until dissolved; 
put it over the fire to boil 3 minutes ; skim well ; add to each quart 
of syrnp H gill of French brandy and bottle. Or take nice, ripe 



SYRUPS. 19 

berries, mash and strain them ; add to each pint of juice 1 ponnd 
sugar, % teaspoonful ground cloves and the same of cinnamon and 
mace ; boil 5 minutes ; add to 1 gallon of syrup K pint brandy and 
bottle. 

 

80. Peach Syrnp* — ^Pare and cut the peaches into small pieces ; 
put them in a preserving kettle with a little water ; crack some of 
the peach stones, add them to the peaches and let boil slowly for 15 
minutes ; then strain through a flannel bag ; add to 1 pint juice 1 
pound sugar and boil a few minutes ; skim well and bottle. 

81* Apricot Syrnp the same way. Or pare and cut the 
peaches into pieces, crack a few of the stones, add them to the fruit 
and let it stand 24 hours ; then strain ; allow for 1 pint juice 1 pound 
sugar ; let it come to a boil ; skim well and bottle. 

82. Cherry Syrnp. — Pound a sufficient quantity of ripe cherries 
(with the pits) in a porcelain or stone mortar ; let it stand for 3 
days ; inclose them in a bag, press out the juice, add to each pint 1 
pound sugar ; let it boil up once, skim and put the syrup in bottles ; 
cork and set away for use. 

83. Wild Cherry Syrup is made in the same manner as the 
above. 

84. Wild Cherry Bark Syrup. — ^Pour 1 pint cold water over 

4 ounces well bruised wild cherry bark ; let it stand for 36 hours ; 
press out and let the liquid stand till clear; add 1% pounds white 
sugar; stir until dissolved and strain through fine flannel bag; set 
away in well corked bottles. 

85. Yanilla Syrup. — ^Add % ounce fluid extract of vanilla to 
1 gallon plain syrup. Another recipe : Rub H ounce citric acid 
with a little plain syrup ; add 1 fluid ounce extract of vanilla and 1 
gallon plain syrup. 

86. Yanilla Cream Syrup. — ^Add to 3 pints plain syrup 1 

ounce extract of vanilla, 1 quart rich, sweet cream or condensed 
milk. 



20 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

87. Cream Syrnp. — 1 cup sweet cream, 1 cup milk and 1 pound 
sugar are well mixed together, and if it is to be kept for several 
days add a little bicarbonate of sodium. 

88. Lemon Syrup. — Grate the rind of 16 large, fresh lemons 
over 8 pounds granulated sugar ; add 2 quarts cold water and the 
juice of the lemons; stir until the sugar is melted; then strain 
through a fine flannel bag and put the syrup in well corked pint 
bottles. Be careful to grate off only the yellow part of the rind of 
the lemons ; the white part will give the syrup a bitter taste. There 
is no better lemon syrup made than this. 2 to 3 tablespoonf uls of 
this syrup in a glass of cold water makes fine lemonade and is also 
excellent for mineral waters and sauces. 

89. Lemon Syrup (with Oil of Lemon).— Add to 1 gallon 

plain syrup 25 drops oil of lemon and 10 drams citric acid; mix 
the oil and acid together gradually ; then add the syrup slowly, 
and when well mixed bottle syrup and keep in a cool place for use. 

90. Another Becipe: — Add to 1 gallon plain syrup 6 drams 
tartaric acid dissolved in a little warm water, 1 ounce gumarabic 
dissolved in 1 ounce warm water and % dram of the best lemon oil, 
or a sufBcient quantity of lemon extract to flavor the syrup. 

91. Lemon Syrup (plain). — Make of 8 pounds sugar and 2 
quarts water a plain syrup; when nearly cold add 1 quart pure 
lemon juice; filter through a Canton flannel filter and bottle. 

92. Orange Syrup. — Grate tbe rind of 12 oranges over 7 
pounds granulated sugar ; squeeze out the juice, strain and pour it 
over the sugar ; add 14 gallon cold water ; stir until sugar is dis- 
solved ; then strain through a fine flannel bag and bottle. Care 
should be taken to grate only the yellow part of the rind of the 
oranges, as the least particle of white will make the syrup bitter. 

93. Orange Flower Syrup. — ^Add to 1 pint orange flower 

water 1 }i pounds sugar ; stir until the su^^ar is dissolved ; then 
bottle. 



EXTRACTS AND ESSENCES. 21 

EXTRACTS AND ESSENCES. 

94. Essence of Lemon. — Grate the rind of 12 lemons; put 
this in a bottle with 1 pint alcohol and 1 teaspoonf ul lemon oil ; 
cork bottle tightly ; set in a warm place ; shake every day and 
after 2 weeks it will be ready for use. 

95. Essence of YanUla. — ^Take 1 ounce vanilla beans ; split 
each bean in two (lengthwise); then cut into small pieces; put 
these into a large bottle with 1 pint alcohol and 1 pint water ; cork 
the bottle, not to tightly ; set in a warm place for 3 weeks and shake 
it once every day ; it will then be ready for use. 

96. Bischof Essence. — ^Pare off the peel of 12 green oranges; 
put them with 1 bottle of good rum in a glass jar that is used for 
preserving fruit ; let it stand 24 hours ; then pour the essence into 
small bottles and set in a cool place for further use ; 2 tablespoon- 
f uls to 1 bottle of claret are sufBcient. 

97. Essence of Oranges.— Pare off the peel of 8 yellow and 4 
green oranges ; put them in a large bottle or glass jar with 1 quart 
arrack; set in a warm place for 2 weeks ; then strain through filtering 
paper, put into small bottles and set them in a cool place for further 
use ; 2 tablespoonf uls essence are sufficient for 1 bottle wine. 

98. Peach Essence. — ^Dissolve l fluid dram oil of bitter 
almonds in 7 pints rectified spirits of 90 per cent. ; allow the 
solution to stand for a few days and then filter it ; put away in well 
corked bottles. 

99. Bitter Almond Essence. — Dissolve 1 fluid dram oil of 
bitter almonds in 3 quarts rectified spirits of 90 per cent, and 
store the fluid for some time before using it. 

100. Coffee Essence. — ^Pour 3 pints rectified spirits of 90 per 
cent, over 5ii ounces finely roasted and ground coffee; let it 
stand for several days, draw off the fluid and filter. 

101. Cherry Essence. — Press out the flesh of ripe cherries; 
let the mass stand quietly in a moderately warm room until the pure 



22 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

juice has separated from the pulp ; then place the mass in a bag, 
press the juice out, let it stand for a few hours longer and add an 
equal quantity of rectified spirits of 90 per cent. 

102. Strawberry Essence. — Bruise ^H pounds wild straw- 
berries ; pour 3 quarts spirits of 90 per cent, over the mass ; let it 
stand for some time and filter. The product will be about 1 gallon 
of strawberry essence. 

103. Raspberry Essence. — Crush 2 pounds ripe raspberries ; 
press them out and add 2 quarts rectified spirits of 90 per cent. 

104. Rose Essence. — Dissolve 2 fluid drams rose oil in 1^ 
quarts rectified spirits of 90 per cent, and filter the solution. 

105. Orange Blossom Extract. — Pour IM pints boiling 

milk over 10)^ ounces fre»h orange blossoms; place same over the 
fire and let it boil up ; then add 3 quarts rectified spirits of 90 per 
cent. ; mix it thoroughly, add 2 ^ pints champagne and filter. 

106. Orange Peel Extract. — Crush in a stone mortar the 
rind. of 12 oranges with some sugar; place the mass into a glass jar; 
add i gallon of rectified spirits of 90 per cent. ; let it stand for 4 
days ; then decant the clear liquid and filter it ; put away in well 
corked bottles. 

107. Italian Meringue. — Whites of 5 eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth, 1 pound sugar, 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla extract, K cup water ; 
put sugar and water over the fire in a saucepan (one of agateware 
is best) ; stir until sugar is dissolved ; next put saucepan over the 
fire and boil till the sugar begins to foam ; then take some of the 
boiling sugar in a spoon and blow it ; if it flows off the spoon in 
large bubbles it is ready to use ; wipe the rim of saucepan clean 
with a damp cloth and remove the sugar from fire ; let it cool for 2 
minutes ; then pour it slowly into the beaten whites, stirring con- 
stantly. 

108. Meringue. — Ji pound powdered sugar and the whites of 5 
eggs ; carefully separate the whites from the yolks ; put the whites 
in a deep kettle for 15 minutes on ice; then whip it with an egg 



FRENCH CREAMS. 23 

beater to a stiff froth; mix in slowly the sugar and use at once. 
This meringue is used for ornamenting puddings and cakes. 

109. Spinach Green (for coloring).— Wash a few handfuls 

spinach, press it out and pound in a mortar to a pulp ; then press out 
the juice in a cloth ; put the spinach liquid in a small saucepan ; put 
it for a few minutes over the fire ; as soon as the liquid curdles pour 
it on a fine sieve ; let the water run off. and the green which remains 
press through a fine sieve and put it in a well covered glass till 
wanted. Spinach green is used for coloring creams or puddings. 

110. Sugar Color. — Place a saucepan with 1 pound sugar 

and yi pint water over the fire and boil till the sugar is dark brown 
and nearly black ; then add 1 pint^ boiling water ; stir until all the 
sugar is well dissolved; boil it for a few minutes; then remove from 
fire and put it into a well corked bottle. This color is used for 
coloring soups, sauces and sometimes jellies. 

111. Lemon Sngar. — Grate the rind of 12 lemons; mbc the 

grated lemon peel with 1 pound powdered sugar; put into well 
closed jars and set in a cool place ; is used for cake sauces and pud- 
dings instead of freshly grated lemon peel. 

113. Yanilla Sugar. — Split the vanilla bean, lengthwise, in 
two ; put some granulated sugar on a plate and scrape the seed out 
of the vanilla bean ; mix it with the sugar and put away in a well 
closed jar. 

113. Bed Sugar. — Sift out all the fine part of H pound 
granulated sugar ; put the sugar on a piece of thick brown paper, 
drop a few drops of cochineal over the sugar and rub it with the 
hands till the sugar becomes a red color. 

114. Green Sugar is prepared in the same manner as the fore* 
going, but care must be taken to use only green vegetable coloring. 

FRENCH CREAMS. 
116. Creme Fran^aise & la Vanille. — Put 1 quart sweet 

cream with the yolks of 8 eggs into a saucepan ; add }i cup sugar 



24 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

and stir the whole over the fire with an egg beater till nearly boil- 
ing; remove from fire, add 2 teaspoonfuls essence of vanilla and 
1 >je ounces clarified gelatine (see Gelatine) ; continue stirring 
until the cream has cooled off; then set a plain form with tube in 
center into cracked ice, pour in the cream, cover and let it remain 
for 2 hours. If the form is oiled with fine almond oil the cream 
will turn out without dipping the form into hot water ; the oiling 
is best done with a fine brush ; the form is then turned upside down, 
so that all superfluous oil has a chance to run out. 

116. Creme Fran^aise anChocolat. — Melt K pound grated 

chocolate in the oven ; then put it with 1 quart cream, Ji cup sugar 
and the yolks of 8 eggs over the fire ; stir until nearly boiling ; re- 
move it from fire, add 1 teaspoonful essence of vanilla and 1 ounce 
clarified gelatine and finish same as in foregoing recipe. 

117. Creme Fran^alse anx Amandes. — 1 quart cream, 

H pound blanched and finely pounded almonds, the yolks 
of 8 eggs, H cup sugar and H vanilla bean; boil the cream 
and pour it over the pounded almonds; cover and let it 
stand till cold; then strain the cream through a sieve; place a 
saucepan with the cream, yolks, vanilla and sugar over the fire; 
stir with an egg beater till nearly boiling ; remove it from the fire 
and finish the same as Creme Fran9aise a la Vanille. 

118. Creme Fran^aise an Cafe. — Pour l quart boiling cream 

over 4 tablespoonfuls fresh, ground coffee ; cover and let it stand 
for 5 minutes ; then strain through a fine sieve of cloth ; place a 
saucepan over the fire with the coffee cream, yolks of 8 eggs and 5 
tablespoonfuls sugar and stir till nearly boiling ; finish the same as 
Creme Fran9aiBe h la Vanille. 

119. Creme Fran^aise an Th6. — ^Pour l quart boiling cream 

over 2 tablespoonfuls of the best black tea ; let it stand, well covered, 
for 5 minutes ; then strain ; put the tea cream with the yolks of 8 
eggs and 5 tablespoonfuls sugar in saucepan over the fire and stir 
till nearly boiling ; finish the same as Creme Fran9aise k la Vanille. 



FRENCH CREAMS. 25 

130. Creme Frangaise au Marasqnin. — Place a saucepan 

with 1 quart cream, the yolks of 8 eggs, H cup sugar and 1 teaspoon- 
f ul vanilla over the fire and stir till nearly boiling ; remove it 
from the fire and add 16 sheets of gelatine which has been soaked 
in cold water for 10 minutes and pressed out ; add lastly H pint 
maraschino and finish the same as Cr^me Fran9aise ^ la Yanille. 

131. Creme Frangaise au Bhum is made the same as the 

foregoing, substituting rum for maraschino. 

133. Petits Pots Creme ft la Vanille.— Mix well together 1 

quart cream, yolks of 8 eggs, 4 whole eggs and 5 tablespoonf uls 
sugar ; fill the cream into buttered custard cups, set them in a pan 
of hot water on top of the stove, cover with a pan or paper and 
boil till contents are firm ; remove from fire and set aside to cool ; 
in serving turn the cream onto a dish and send whipped cream to 
table with it. 

133. Creme an Bain-Marie an Caramel. — Boil }i cup 

sugar to a caramel (see Boiling Su^ar), add a little boiling water, 
remove from fire and stir for a few minutes ; then place a saucepan 
with 1 quart cream or milk, 4 whole eggs and the yolks of 8 eggs 
over the fire; add the caramel sugar and stir till nearly boiling; fill 
the cream into a buttered form, cov,er it tightly and place the form 
into a vessel of hot water; let it stand for 1>ib hours on the hot stove; 
the water should be boiling hot, but must not boil ; when done take 
it from the fire, set in cool place ; when cold and ready to serve turn 
the cream onto a round dish and send to table without sauce. 

134. Creme au Bain-Marie an Choeolat. — Melt 4 table- 
spoonfuls Baker's chocolate in the oven ; mix it with I quart cream 
or milk, 5 tablespoonfuls sugar and boil 5 minutes, stirring con- 
stantly ; remove it from the fire and when cold add 4 whole eggs, 
the yolks of 8 and I teaspoonf ul vanilla ; beat these well together 
with an egg beater ; butter a form with a tube in the center and 
sprinkle with fine zwieback crumbs ; pour in the cream, cover the 
form and set in a vessel of hot water ; let it boil slowly for an hour ; 
remove it from the fire and set aside to cool; when ready to serve 



26 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

tarn the cream onto a dish, garnish with fancy cake and send 
whipped cream k la vanilla to table with it. 

125. Tienna Orange Cream.— Soak 1 ounce gelatine in H 

cup cold water 15 minutes, add H cup boiling water and stir over 
the fire till dissolved; stir the yolks of 12 eggs Mrith 12 tablespoon- 
f uls sugar to a cream ; add by degrees the juice of 8 oranges and 3 
lemons, and lastly the gelatine ; continue stirring until it begins to 
thicken ; then add the whites, beaten to a stiff froth ; rinse out a 
mould Mrith cold water and sprinkle with sugar, pour in the cream 
and set it on ice for 2 hours. 

136. Tienna Lemon Cream. — Stir the yolks of 10 eggs with 

1 oup sugar to a oream ; add the juice of 4 lemons and the grated 
rind of H a one; lay 12 sheets of gelatine in cold water for 10 
minutes, press out and dissolve it in H cup boiling water ; add it by 
degrees to the cream and continue stirring till it begins to thicken ; 
then add the whites, beaten to a stiff froth ; rinse out a form with 
cold water and sprinkle with sugar, turn in the cream and set on 
ice till firm. 

127. Milk Cream. — Soak 1 ounce gelatine in 1 cup of 
milk ; place a saucepan with 3 cups milk, X cup sugar, 1 H tea- 
spoonfuls vanilla and the yolks of 6 eggs in a vessel of boiling 
water and stir with an egg beater till nearly boiling ; remove from 
the fire, add the gelatine and stir till it becomes cold and begins to 
thicken ; then add the whites, beaten to a stiff froth, turn the cream 
into a form and set on ice till firm ; serve with cold pineapple or 
strawberry sauce ; the form should be rinsed with cold water and 
sprinkled with sugar before the cream is put in. 

128. Russian Cream. — Stir the yolks of 9 eggs with 9 table- 
Hpuonfuls sugar for H hour; add the juice and grated rind of 1 
lemon and H pint best rum ; lay 5 sheets of gelatine for 5 minutes 
in cold water, press out and put it in H cup boiling water; stir 
until dissolved ; then mix it by degrees, stirring constantly, with 
the above mixture ; when it begins to thicken add the whites, beaten 



FRENCH CREAMS. 27 

to a stiff froth, rinse out a mould with cold water, sprinkle with 
sugar, fill in the cream and set in a cool place till firm. 

129. Saliayon of Oranges. — Soak 12 sh^ts of gelatine in 
cold watSr for 10 minutes ; in the meantime put the juice of 4 
oranges, the thin peel of 1, ^ cup sugar, H bottle wine (white is 
best), 2 whole eggs and the yolks of 6 in a saucepan over the fire; 
beat this with an egg beater till nearly boiling ; remove it from the 
fire and take out the peel, press out the gelatine, add it to the cream 
and continue the beating till cold ; fill it into a cream form and 
place for 2 hours on ice. 

130. Sabayon of Lemon. — Soak 12 sheets of gelatine in cold 
water ; put in a saucepan 2 whole eggs and the yolks of 10 ; add 1 
cup sugar, the juice of 3 lemons, the thin peel of 1 and H bottle 
Rhine wine ; beat this with an egg beater till nearly boiling ; re- 
move at once, press out the gelatine, add it to the cream and con- 
tinue beating till cold and beginning to thicken; fill it into a cream 
form and set on ice till wanted. 

131. Whipped Cream. — ^Put 1 quart of rich, sweet cream into 
a deep vessel or stone jar and let it stand on ice for an hour ; then 
beat it with an egg beater until stiff ; then add sufficient powdered 
sugar to sweeten and any kind of flavor that may be liked. 

132. Whipped Cream (with Strawberries).— Put 1 quart 

ripe strawberries in a colander and rinse with cold water ; when well 
drained put the berries into a glass dish, sprinkle over them 1 cup 
powdered sugar and set for H hour on ice; whip 1 pint sweet 
cream to a froth, sweeten with powdered sugar and set on ice until 
wanted ; when ready for use pour the cream over berries and serve 
at once, or send each in a separate dish to the table. 

133. Cream (with Pineapple).— Prepare the cream in the 
same manner as the foregoing ; pare a ripe sugar-loaf pineapple and 
break it from the stalk into pieces with a silver fork; put the fruit 
into a glass dish and sprinkle 1 cup sugar over it; set the dish on 



28 PESEBTS AND BALADS. 

ice for 1 hour; when ready to serve poor the cream over pine- 
apple and send to table at once. 

134. Whipped Cream (with Chocolate). — Boil M pound 

grated chocolate in % cup water with M cup sugaf and a little 
vanilla ; when cold mix it with 1 pint whipped cream and set on ice 
till wanted. 

135. Whipped Cream (with Oranges). — Pare 6 large 

oranges, cut them into pieces, remove the pits, put the fruit into a 
glass dish and sprinkle over it % cup powdered sugar ; have 1 pint 
cream, beaten to a stiff froth, mixed with 3 or 4 tablespoonf uls 
powdered sugar and set fruit and cream on ice till wanted ; when 
ready to serve pour cream over the oranges and send to table at 
once, or serve each in a separate dish. 

136. Creme Fonett6e ft la Cobby. — Mix with whipped cream 

some fruit marmalade and put it in layers in a glass dish with some 
preserved cherries and macaroons between each layer ; arrange the 
cream high up in the dish and garnish with lady fingers or fancy 
oake. 

137. Whipped Cream (with Peaches). — Pare and cut 6 

large, ripe peaches into quarters ; put the fruit into a glass dish^ 
sprinkle over it % cup powdered sugar and set the dish on ice for 1 
hour ; also have 1 pint of whipped and sweetened cream standing on 
ice ; in serving cover the peaches with cream ; break some lady fingers 
apart, stand them around the dish and serve at once. Or serve cream 
and fruit in separate dbhes. Instead of fresh fruit preserved fruit 
may be used. 

138. Whipped Cream (with Cherries). — Remove the pits 

from 1 pound of large cherries ; put the fruit in a glass dish with %, 
cup sugar ; set the dish for an hour or two on ice ; also have 1 pint 
of whipped cream on ice; when ready to serve spread the cream over 
the cherries, or serve each in a separate dish, and send sponge or 
fancy cake to the table with it. Canned cherries, apricots or 
peaches may be substituted for f re^h fruit. 



BOILED CREAMS. 29 

BOILED CREAMS. 

139. Yanilla Cream. — ^Place a saucepan with 1 pint cream or 
milk over the fire, add 2 tablespoonfols flour, the yolks of 4 eggs, 
1 tablespoon! ul butter, 3 tablespoonf uls sugar, 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla 
extract and a sprinkle of salt ; stir this until it comes to a boil ; 
when cold mix cream with the yolk of 1 egg and a little sweet 
cream. 

140. Choeolate Cream. — Mix 2 tablespoonfuls fioar with 1 
pint of milk or cream; add H teaspoonf ul vanilla extract, H pound 
grated chocolate, 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, H tablespoonf ul 
butter, a sprinkle of salt and the yolks of 4 eggs ; place this in a 
saucepan over the fire and stir till it boils ; then remove and set aside 
to cool. 

141. Orange Cream. — ^Mix 2 tablespoonfuls fiour with 1 pint 
milk or cream, add H tablespoonf ul butter, SH tablespoonfuls 
sugar, the yolks of 3 or 4 eggs and the grated rind of H an orange 
and stir the cream over the fire till it boils ; then set aside to cool. 

143. Almond Cream.— Pound 6 ounces of blanched almonds 
with a little cream to a paste; mix them with 1 pint of sweet cream 
3r milk, add 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 3 H tablespoonfuls sugar, the 
yolks of 4 eggs, a little saU, ^ teaspoonf ul vanilla extract and }i 
tablespoonf ul butter ; stir this oyer the fire till it boils ; then remove 
%nd set the cream aside to cool. 

143. Coffee Cream. — ^Put 3 ounces fresh roasted Mocha coffee 
mto 1 pint boiling cream; let it stand 15 minutes; then strain, add 
to the coffee cream 2 tablespoonfuls flour, H tablespoonf ul butter, 
4 tablespoonfuls sugar, a sprinkle of salt and the yolks of 6 eggs ; 
stir this over the fire till it boils ; remove it and set the cream aside 
to cool. 

144. Creme Frangipane h la Yanille. — Mix H cup flour 

with 2 cups cream, add 5 well beaten eggs, a sprinkle of salt, 4 
tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 tablespoonf ul butter and 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla ; 



30 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

Stir this over the fire till it boils ; remove it, add 8 well ponnded 
macf^roons and set aside to cool. Instead of vanilla a little orange 
or lemon peel may be substituted. Blanched almonds, raisins, 
currants, finely cut citron or any kind of fruit such as pineapples, 
strawberries or peaches may also be used. 



JELLIES. 

145. Jellies should be as clear as crystal, not too sweet and just 
firm enough to hold together. Jellies that have to stand any length 
of time on the buffets must, of course, be firmer. A good plan is 
to make a trial by putting a little in a tin cup and setting it on ice 
before the jelly is put into a form. 

146. To Clarify Gelatine. — ^Put 2 ounces gelatine in a sauce- 
pan, add H pint cold water and let it stand 10 minutes ; then add H 
pint boiling water, set the saucepan in a vessel of boiling water and 
stir until gelatine is dissolved ; beat the whites of 2 eggs to a froth, 
add the juice of 1 large lemon and a little cold water ; stir this into 
the gelatine, continue stirring until it boils, remove to side of stove 
and let it stand 5 minutes without boiling ; then strain through a 
jelly bag and use as directed in following recipes. 

147. To Clarify Sugar. — ^Put 1 pound sugar in 1 pint cold 
water and stir till sugar is dissolved ; then strain through a napkin. 
A quicker way is to boU the sugar and water with the juice of 1 
lemon for a few minutes and strain the same way. 

148. To Clarify Fruit Juice.— Lay a few sheets of filtering 
paper in water and let them soak for 15 minutes, changing the 
water twice ; then press them out, pick into small pieces, wet a little 
again with water and put the paper into a small sieve ; pour the 
fruit juice onto the paper and let it run through into a dish. If not 
clear the first time pour back again and let it run through onoe 
more. 



JELLIES. 31 

149. Jelly Bag. — ^Take K yard of white flani^el and make a 
bias bag; this is done by taking the flannel on the bias, sewing the 
bottom and side together to a point; cut it even on top and hem; 
then sew a string on each end of hem. In using the bag lay 
a broom with one end on the back of a chair and the other end on a 
table ; tie the bag onto the broom, in the center, so that it hangs 
between the table and chair; set a bowl underneath the bag; then 
pour in the jelly ; pour that which runs through first back again into 
the bag ; repeat this once or twice more until the jelly runs through 
clear. When all the jelly has run through fill it into a mould and 
set either on ice or in a cool place. 

150. Orange Jelly. — Clarify 2 ounces of gelatine as directed 
(see Clarifying Gelatine), dissolve 1 pound sugar in 1 pint water, 
add the thin peel of 2 oranges and let it stand 1 hour ; then remove 
orange peel and strain the sugar syrup through a napkin ; remove 
the peel from 4 oranges, divide them into small quarters and remove 
the pits without breaking the fruit ; next pour the juice of 8 oranges 
and 2 lemons through filtering paper (see Clarifying Fruit Juice) ; as 
soon as the gelatine, fruit juice and sugar are clarified mix the three 
together, place a jelly form into cracked ice, pour in a few spoon* 
fuls jelly and when firm lay in one-third of the orange quarters, 
which should be wiped dry with a napkin ; add sufficient jelly to 
cover the fruit and when hard lay over another third ; cover again 
with jelly and continue until all is used up ; cover the form, lay 
some ice on top and let it stand till firm ; when ready to serve dip 
the form into hot water, wipe it dry, remove cover, turn the jelly 
into a dish and serve with vanilla sauce or sweet cream. Note. — 
If the inside of jelly mould is brushed with pure almond oil the 
form need not be dipped in hot water, as the jelly will slip out 
without any trouble. Fine olive oil may also be used, but care 
should be taken to use only the very best, as otherwise the flavor of 
the jelly will be spoiled. 

151. Plain Orange Jelly. — Dissolve and clarify 1 ounce gel- 
atine in % pint water as directed, dissolve 1 cup sugar in H pint 
water, add the thin peel of 1 orange and let it stand 1 hour; then 



32 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

strain through a napkin ; let the juice of 5 oranges and 1 lemon run 
through filtering paper or a fine napkin ; mix the gelatine, fruit 
juice and sugar syrup together, pour it into a jelly mould and set in 
a cool place to get firm ; when ready to serve dip the form into hot 
water, turn the jelly onto a dish and serve with the following 
sauce : — ^Beat 1 egg to a froth, add by degrees 1 cup milk, 2 table- 
spoonfuls sugar and 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract. 

152. Lemon Jelly. — Clarify 2 ounces gelatine as directed, 
dissolve Di pounds sugar in 1 pint water, add the grated rind of 2 
lemons and let it stand H hour ; then strain through a napkin ; let 1 
pint of lemon juice run through filtering paper (see Clarifying Fruit 
Juice) ; when the three ingredients have been clarified mix them 
together, fill the jelly into a jelly mould, set it on ice or in a cold 
place to get firm and serve same as Orange Jelly. 

163. Strawberry Jelly. — ^Put 1 quart ripe strawberries in a 
colander, rinse them off with cold water and when drained mash 
them well in a bowl with a silver spoon ; dissolve H pound sugar in 
1 pint cold water, add the juice of 1 lemon and put it over the fire 
to boil 5 minutes ; strain through a napkin and when cold pour it 
over the strawberries ; let them stand 3 hours ; then strain the berries, 
first through a jelly bag and then through filtering paper ; also let 
the juice of 2 oranges run through filtering paper ; clarify 2 ounces 
gelatine as directed and when cold add it to the fruit juice ; then 
make a trial by filling a few spoonfuls in a tin cup and set it on 
ice to form ; if not firm enough add a little more dissolved gelatine ; 
fill the jelly alternately with large strawberries in a jelly form and 
finish the same as Orange J^lly ; serve with whipped cream. 

154. Pineapple Jelly. — ^Pare and cut a large, ripe pineapple in- 
to quarters, remove the hard core from the center and cut the quarters 
of pineapple into fine slices ; dissolve 1 pound sugar in 1 pint cold 
water and juice of 1 lemon, pour it over the pineapple pieces, cover . 
and let it stand for 2 hours ; chop the eyes and hard core of pine- 
apple very fine, put them with 1 pint water in a saucepan over the 
fiire and boil slowly H hour ; when cold strain them and add the 



JELLIES. 33 

» 

liquid to the pineapple ; in the meantime clarify 2 ounoes gelatine as 
directed; then drain the pineapple in a sieve, wipe the slices dry 
with a napkin and lay them on a plate ; let the pineapple syrup run 
through filtering paper or napkin and mix it with the clarified gela- 
tine; also let the jnice^of 2 oranges and 1 lemon run through filter- 
ing paper and add it to the jelly ; then make a trial to see if firm 
enough ; place jelly form in cracked ice, pour a few spoonfuls of 
jelly into the form and when hard put in a layer of pineapple ; cover 
them with jelly and when firm put in another layer of pmeapple ; 
continue until all is used up ; then cover the form, put some ice on 
top of form and let it remain till jelly is firm ; serve with or Mrithout 
cream or vanilla sauce. This jelly may also be made of preserved 
pineapple. 

155. Jelly of Peaches. — Pare 8 large, ripe peaches, cut them in- 
to halves, remove the stones and cut each half into 3 or 4 pieces; put 
the fruit into a bowl and pour over it 1 pint of sugar syrup ; let 
them stand well covered for 2 hours; scald the pits, remove the 
brown skin and put them with the peaches ; then let the syrup run 
through filtering paper, mix it with 2 ounces clarified gelatine, fill 
the jelly with the peaches and pits in alternate layers in a form and 
finish the same as Orange Jelly. 

166. Raspberry Jelly. — ^Press the juice from 1 quart ripe 
raspberries, add the juice of 1 lemon and filter it through filtering 
paper (see Clarifying Fruit Juice) ; dissolve %, pound sugar in 1 pint 
water, strain through a napkin and add it to the raspberry juice ; 
add 2 ounces clarified gelatine ; set a jelly form into cracked ice and 
fill the jelly alternately with large, ripe raspberries into the form 
and finish the same as Orange Jelly. 

157. Wine Jelly. — Soak 2 ounces gelatine in % pint cold 

water for 10 minutes; then add % pint boiling water and stir the 

whole over the fire till gelatine is dissolved ; add the rind and juice 

of 1 lemon, 2 whole cloves, a small piece of cinnamon and the well 

beaten whites of 2 eggs; stir this with an egg beater till it boils; 
8 



34 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

then remove the saucepan with its contents to side of stove and let 
it remain for 5 minutes without boiling ; then strain it through a 
flannel jelly bag; dissolve }i pound sugar in 1 pint cold water, 
strain it through a napkin and add it with 1 pint Madeira to the 
gelatine ; rinse out a jelly mould with cold w^ter, pour in the jelly 
and set it on ice or in a cool place till firm. Instead of Madeira 
wine any other kind may be used. 

158. Rhine Wine Jelly. — Dissolve and clarify 2 ounces gela- 
tine and dissolve 1 pound sugar in 1 pint water ; add the rind of 2 
lemons and the juice of 1; let it stand 1 hour; then strain through 
a napkin ; let the juice of 2 lemons run through filtering paper, add 
it with 1 pint Rhine wine and the sugar syrup to the clarified 
gelatine, fill the jelly in a form and set it on ice or in a cool place. 

159. Champagne Jelly. — Dissolve and clarify 2 ounces gelatine 
(see Gelatine), dissolve X pound sugar in 1 pint cold water, strain 
it through a napkin, add to the gelatine with H bottle champagne 
and the filtered juice of 4 lemons, fill into a form and set it in a cool 
place or on ice. 

160. Apple Jelly. — Grate 1 quart tart apples, put them in a bag 
and press out the juice, add the juice of 1 orange and let both run 
through a filtering paper; clarify 2 ounces gelatine, dissolve H pound 
sugar in 1 pint cold water, strain through a napkin and add it with the 
apple juice to the clarified gelatine ; rinse a mould with cold water, 
pour in the jelly and set it in a cool place or on ice till firm. Another 
way is : — ^Pare, core and quarter some tart apples and boil them in 
sugar syrup to which the juice of 1 lemon has been added ; when the 
apples are done remove carefully, so as not to break them, lay on a 
sieve to drain and when cold lay into the mould alternately with the 
jelly and finish like Orange Jelly. 

161. Cider Jelly. — Soak 2 ounces gelatine in H pint cold 
water for 15 minutes; then add H pint boiling water, put it over 
the fire and stir till gelatine is dissolved ; add the juice of 1 lemon 
and the beaten whites of 2 eggs ; stir with an egg beater until it 



JELLIES. 85 

boils; then draw to side of stove and let it stand 5 minutes; then 
strain through a flannel jelly bag ; dissolve ^ pound sugar in 1 
quart sweet cider, strain through a jelly bag and add it to the gela- 
tine ; pour it into a jelly mould and set in a cool place until firm. 

162. Bose Jelly. — ^Put 1 quart of freshly gathered rose leaves 
in a glass jar, squeeze the juice of 1 lemon over them, pour over the 
whole 1 cup boiling water, close the jar tightly and set aside till 
next day; then press out the juice (by putting the rose leaves in a 
coarse bag), let the liquid run through filtering paper (see Clarifying 
Fruit Juice), add 1 pint cold clarified sugar syrup, H pint white 
wine and 2 ounces clarified gelatine ; next pour the jelly into a mould 
and set aside to cool. 

163. Oolfie Busse. — Clarify l ounce gelatine and dissolve }i 
pound sugar in H pint water ; add the grated peel of 2 lemons ; let 
it stand 15 minutes; then strain through a napkin; let H pint lemon 
juice nin through filtering paper ; mix the clarified gelatine, sugar 
syrup and lemon juice together ; put it in a deep kettle, set into 
cracked ice and whip the contents until it foams and begins to 
thicken ; then fill it into a form and cover and pack with cracked ice 
till firm, which will take about 2 hours. Orange and Wine Jelly 
may be made in the same manner. 

164. MacMoine de Fruit k la Bnsse.— Prepare a Rhme 
Wine Jelly, set a form into cracked ice, pour in a few spoonfuls 
jelly and let it get hard ; lay over it a layer of fruit, such as straw- 
berries, slices of pineapple or peaches, and pour over sufficient jelly 
to cover the fruit ; put the remaining jelly into a deep kettle, set in- 
to cracked ice and beat with an egg beater till it foams and begins to 
thicken ; then mix with 3 or 4 different kinds of fruit, either fresh or 
preserved, fill into the jelly form, cover closely and let it stand 2 
hours ; when ready to serve dip the form in hot water, wipe it dry, 
remove the cover, turn the jelly onto a dish and garnish with sugared 
fruit. 

165. CalTesfoot Jelly. — Choose 4 calves' feet with the skin 
on (if without the skin 6 must be taken), crack and wash them 



36 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

well, put over the fire, cover with cold water and boil till they fall 
apart ; strain the liquor through a fine sieve and let it stand in a cool 
place ; next day skim off every particle of fat and remove the sedi- 
ment ; put the jelly over the fire and reduce it down to 2 quarts by 
boiling ; beat up the whites of 4 eggs, add a little cold water, the 
juice of 2 lemons and the thin peel of one, 6 cloves and a piece of 
cinnamon ; add this to the contents of saucepan, stirring constantly ; 
boil for a few minutes ; then move the saucepan to side of stove 
and let it stand for 5 minutes without boiling ; then strain it through 
a double flannel bag ; dissolve 2 cups sugar in 1 pint sherry or 
Madeira wine, strain through a napkin and add it to the strained 
jelly ; rinse out the moulds with cold water, put in the jelly and set 
in a cool place. This jelly may be put into tightly corked bottles 
and will keep for a long time. When wanted for use set the bottle 
in hot water until the jelly melts ; then pour it into moulds and set 
in a cool place till firm. 

166. MacMoine de Fruits an Tin dn Rhine. — Prepare a 

Rhine wine jelly a little stiffer than the ordinary jellies; take 
large, ripe raspberries, strawberries, currants, peaches (pared And 
cut into eighths) and pineapples cut into small slices ; put them in a 
dish on ice ; next set a form into cracked ice, pour in a few spoon- 
fools jelly and when hard lay in some of the fruit, either each kind 
by itself in small clusters or mixed one with the other ; pour over 
this sufficient jelly to cover the fruit ; let it get hard and again lay 
over some fruit ; continue alternately with fruit and jelly till form is 
full ; cover and let it remain in ice till firm ; in serving dip the form 
into hot water, wipe it dry and tuni the mac6doine onto a round 
dish. In winter preserved fruit and apples and pears may be used. 
The apples and pears are to be cut into quarters and boiled for a 
few minutes in sugar syrup. The latter should be colored with a 
little cochineal. 

167. 6el6e h la MosCOTite. — Any kind of fruit jelly may be 

used for this, using only half the quantity of gelatine as for jelly ; 
put into a form, cover it, paste a strip of buttered paper around the 
edge of cover and pack the form in ice and rock salt for 2 hours; 



JELLIES. 37 

only freeze aboat an inch all aronnd, leaving it soft in the center; 
preserved fruit may be mixed with the jelly before it is put into the 
form ; serve the moscovite in a glass dish and garnish with fruit or 
fancy cake. 

16?. Orange Baskets (with Jelly). — Choose 1 dozen large 

oranges and cut them into the shape of small baskets with handles ; 
this is done by holding the orange in the left hand and cutting with 
a penknife a small quarter form each side of the orange toward the 
top, so as to leave the skin for the handle 14 inch wide ; then cut the 
skin evenly all around ; next separate the inside from the outside 
skin with the penknife and completely hollow the orange out, so 
that only little more than half of the skin with the handle is left ; 
cut the edges into small scallops with a scizzors and lay the baskets 
in cold water; press out the juice from the oranges and with it make 
a jelly (see Orange Jelly) ; take the baskets from the water, wipe 
dry and with a napkin under them set on a tray ; have the jelly on 
ice and when it begins to thicken fill up the baskets and place them 
on ice ; if there should be any small holes in the baskets paste them 
up from the outside with butter, which must be removed before 
serving ; serve on a napkin and garnish with green leaves. These 
baskets may also be filled with Glel^e Russe. 

169. Orange Quarters Used for Garnishing Jellies and 

Other Dishes. — ^Take 6 large oranges, cut out a round' piece on 
the side of stem and hollow out so that nothing is left but the out- 
side skin ; care must be taken to leave none of the white coating on 
the inside of skin ; after preparing this way put them in a saucepan 
over the fire with boiling water and boil 5 minutes ; rinse with cold 
water, wipe them dry and fill each one either with clear jelly of 
different colors or blanc-mange ; set them on ice until hard ; cut them 
into quarters and use for garnishing different dishes. Small patty 
forms filled with jelly are also used for the same purpose. 

• 

170. Almond Blanc-Mange. — Soak l ounce gelatine in 1 cup 

cold milk for 15 minutes; then add 3 cups boiling milk, 6 table- 
spoonfuls sugar, a pound blanched almonds (among the latter there 



38 DKSERTS AND SALADS. 

should be a few bitter ones) and pound them in a mortar with a 
little water to a paste ; set the saucepan with its contents into a 
vessel of boiling water and stir till it boils ; remove from the fire 
and let it stand for 5 minutes ; then strain through a muslin bag, 
add 1 teaspoonf ul extract of vanilla and set aside to cool ; rinse out 
a quart mould with cold water and sprinkle with sugar ; pour in the 
cold blanc-mange and set in a cool place till it becomes firm ; when 
ready to serve loosen the blanc-mange around the edge on top and 
turn it over onto a dish ; it may then be served either with or without 
fruit or vanilla sauce. Instead of almonds any other kind of 
flavoring may be used. 

171. Chocolate Blanc-Mange. — Soak l ounce gelatine in 1 
cup cold milk for 15 minutes; then add 2)4 cups boiling milk; mix 
H pound grated Baker's chocolate with K cup cold milk; add it to 
the gelatine with 6 tablespoonf uls sugar ; place this in a saucepan 
over the fire and stir till it boils ; remove from fire, add 1 teaspoon- 
ful vanilla extract and when cold pour it into the moulds, which 
have been rinsed out with cold water and sprinkled with sugar ; set 
in a cool place till firm ; this may be served with or without vanilla 
sauce. 

173. Blanc-Mange Marbre an Chocolat.— Make half the 

quantity of both the Almond and Chocolate Blanc-Mange ; rinse out 
a mould with cold water, sprinkle with sugar and place into cracked 
ice ; pour in a few spoonfuls almond blanc-mange and let it get 
firm ; then put in a few spoonfuls chocolate blanc-mange ; when the 
latter is firm again put in some of the almond blanc-mange ; con- 
tinue in this way until all is used; let the form remain for 2 hours 
on ice and then serve with vanilla sauce. 

173. Cream Blanc-Mange. — Soak in a small tin H ounce 

gelatine in H cup cold water for 15 minutes ; set the tin in a sauce- 
pan of boiling water and stir until gelatine is dissolved ; beat 1 pint 
rich, sweet cream to a stiff froth ; add 4 tablespoonf uls powdered 
sugar and 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla or lemon flavoring ; when this is 
well mixed add the gelatine by degrees, beating constantly ; rinse 



JELLIES. 39 

out a mould with cold water, sprinkle with sugar, fill in the blanc- 
mange and set on ice an hour or two before serving. 

174. Plain Blanc-Mange. — Boil 1 quart milk with 6 table- 
spoonfuls sugar ; add 1 ounce gelatine which has been soaked in a 
little cold water for 15 minutes; stir this over the fire until gelatine 
is dissolved ; remove it from fire and when cold add 2 teaspoonf uls 
vanilla ; rinse out a form with cold water, sprinkle with sugar, pour 
in the blanc-mange and set it on ice ; serve with vanilla sauce. 

175. Cocoanut Blanc-Mange. — Stir into the plain blanc- 
mange when it begins to thicken 2 cups freshly grated cocoanut. 

176. Neapolitan Blanc-Mange. — Prepare an ahnond blanc- 
mange, strain and divide it into 4 equal parts ; add to first part 1 
tablespoonf ul grated chocolate and let it boil for a few minutes ; 
mix second part with the yolks of 2 eggs and stir it over the fire 
till just about to boil ; add to third part a few drops of cochineal, 
to color it pink ; leave fourth part uncolored ; rinse out a mould 
with cold water, sprinkle with sugar and place it into cracked ice ; 
as soon as the blanc-mange becomes cold^and begins to thicken put 
in first the white ; after 5 minutes put in the pink ; again waiting 5 
minutes, put in the yellow and after a few minutes put in the 
chocolate ; let it remain on ice till firm ; when ready to serve work 
top free from the edge with a few light touches of your finger and 
turn the blanc-mange onto a dish. 

177. Nest with Eggs. — ^Prepare 1 quart almond blanc-mange; 
take 12 fresh eggs, make a small hole in one end of each and let the 
contents flow out ; rinse each shell well with cold water ; then fill 
them with blanc-mange and set in a pan of sugar or flour, the open 
end up ; place them in a cool place till hard ; boil 1 pound sugar to a 
crack and spin it into quite long threads (see Spinning Sugar) ; with 
these threads form a nest a little smaller than the dish it is to be 
served in ; dip each egg into warm water, wipe dry, break shells 
from about the blanc-mange and lay the artificial eggs in the nest. 
Another way is to make 1 )i quarts orange or wine jelly ; cut the 
rind of 3 oranges into long narrow strips and boil them for 20 



40 * DESERTS AND SALADS. 

minutes in water, changing the water 3 times ; drain them on a sieve ; 
put 1 H cups sugar with 1 pint water over the fire and when it boils 
add the orange peel; boil 15 minutes; remove and drain them on a 
sieve ; put half of the jelly into a glass dish and when firm lay the 
artificial eggs upon it ; arrange them the same way that natural eggs 
are generally found in a nest ; lay orange peel, which represents 
the straw, over and around the eggs ; when the remaining jelly is 
cold and thick pour it over the eggs and set in a cool place to form. 

178. Fromage Bavarois h la TanlUe.— Soak 1 ounce gela- 
tine in 1 cup cold water 20 minutes; place a saucepan with 1 pint 
cream, the yolks of 6 eggs, H cup sugar and 1 teaspoonful vanilla 
over the fire and stir till nearly boiling ; remove it from the fire, add 
gelatine and stir till dissolved ; set saucepan with its contents in a 
vessel of cold water and stir till it becomes cold and begins to 
thicken ; then mix it with 1 pint whipped cream ; rinse a form with 
cold water, sprinkle the inside with sugar, fill in the bavarois and 
set for 2 hours on ice ; serve on a round dish garnished with fancy 
cakes. 

179. Fromage Bavarois h la Tanille^ No. 2.— Boil 6 table- 
spoonfuls sugar in 1 cup water 5 minutes and flavor with 1 H tea- 
spoonfuls vanilla ; soak 1 ounce gelatine in 1 cup cold water 15 
minutes, add it to the boiling sugar syrup and stir till melted ; then 
set aside ; when cold and beginning to thicken mix it with 1 pint 
whipped cream and finish the same as in foregoing recipe. 

180. Fromage Bavarois aux Pistache. — Chop or pound 6 

ounces pistachio nuts and }i pound almonds as finely as possible, 
mix with 1 pint cold sugar syrup and let them stand 2 hours ; then 
strain through a fine sieve, add a little spinach green (see Color) and 
1 ounce dissolved gelatine ; stir until it begins to thicken ; then ndx 
with 1 pint whipped cream ; put this into a form and place on ice 
for 2 hours. This cream should have a delicate green color; it is 
served on a round dish, 

181. Fromage Bavarois anx Amandes. — Scald H pound 

sweet and 10 bitter almonds with boiling water, remove the brown 



JELLIES. 41 

skin and pound or chop them fine; place a saucepan over the fire 
with 1 pint milk, 6 tablespoonfuls sugar, the yolks of 6 eggs, 1 H 
teaspoonfuls vanilla and the pounded almonds; stir until nearly 
boiling ; soak 1 M ounces gelatine in 1 cup cold milk, add it to the 
hot milk and stir till dissolved ; then strain through a sieve ; when 
cold and beginning to thicken stir in 1 pint whipped cream, turn into 
a form and set for 2 hours in cracked ice. 

182. Frontage Bayarois au Caffe. — Pour 1 pint boiling milk 

over 4 tablespoonfuls freshly ground coffee, cover and let it stand 5 
minutes; strain through a fine cloth; soak 1 ounce gelatine in a 
little cold water 15 minutes and add it to the coffee milk with 6 
tablespoonfuls sugar and the yolks of 6 eggs ; stir this over the fire 
till it nearly boil6 ; remove from the fire and when cold and begin- 
ning to thicken stir in 1 pint whipped cream, turn into a form and 
pack in cracked ice 2 hours. 

183. Fromage Bayarois an Th6. — Pour 1 pint boiling milk 

over 2 tablespoonfuls of the best black or green tea, cover and le^, it 
stand 5 minutes ; then strain and finish the same as Fromage Bava- 
rois au Caf 6. 

184. Fromage Bayarois an Ghocolat. — Boil 4 tablespoon- 
fuls grated chocolate in H pint water, add }i cup sugar and 1 tea- 
spoonful vanilla; soak 1 ounce gelatine in 1 cup cold water 15 min- 
utes, add -it to the chocolate and boil a few minutes; remove 
from the fire and when cold mix it with 1 pint whipped cream, turn 
into a form and pack in cracked ice for 2 hours ; then serve on a 
round dish with vanilla sauce. 

185. Lemon Fromage. — Dissolve 1 cup sugar in H pint 
water, add the thin peel of 1 lemon, the juice of 3 and boil 5 minutes; 
add 1 ounce gelatine which has been soaked in H pint cold water 
and stir it until dissolved ; then strain and when cold and beginning 
to thicken add 1 pint whipped cream ; fill this into a form and place 
it on ice for 2 hours. 

9 

186. Orange Fromage. — Soak 1 ounce gelatine in 1 cup cold 
water 15 minutes; dissolve 1 cup sugar in 1 cup water, add the 



42 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

thin peel of 1 orange and boil 5 minutes; add gelatine and stir till 
melted; mix it with the juice of 6 oranges, strain and when cold 
and beginning to thicken add 1 pint whipped cream; turn into a 
form and pack in ice for 2 hours. 

187. Pineapple Fromage. — Soak l H ounces gelatine in 1 
cup cold water 15 minutes and stir it over the fire till dissolved; 
take 1 can preserved pineapple, drain off the liquor and add it to 
the gelatine ; when cold and beginning to thicken cut the pineapple 
into small dice ; stir the fruit with 1 pint whipped cream into the 
gelatine, turn into a form and pack it in cracked ice for 2 hours. 
Or peel a large, ripe pineapple, remove the eyes and hard core, cut 
into small square pieces, put them in a dish, sprinkle over with 1 
cup sugar and let them stand for 2 hours ; chop the eyes and core 
fine and put them in a dish ; boil H cup sugar with 1 cup water, 
pour it boiling hot over the chopped pineapple and let it stand till 
cold; soak IH ounces gelatine in H pint cold water, put it over the 
fire and stir till dissolved ; strain the chopped pineapple through a 
fine sieve, drain off liquid from the pieces and add them together to 
the gelatine ; set in ice and stir till it begins to thicken ; then stir 
in the pineapple pieces and 1 pint whipped cream; fill it into a plain 
form with tube in center and pack in cracked ice and a little rock 
salt for 2 hours. 

188. Peach Fromage. — Pare and cut into quarters 1 H dozen 
ripe peaches, put with 1 cup powdered sugar into a dish and let 
them stand 2 hours ; also add the peach pits (after they have been 
scalded and freed from their brown skin) ; soak 1 K ounces gelatine 
in ?i cup cold water for 15 minutes, add K cup boiling water and 
stir over the fire till melted ; strain and set aside to cool ; press the 
peaches through a sieve, add gelatine and pits and stir till it begins 
to thicken; then carefully stir in 1 pint whipped cream, turn into a 
form and place for 2 hours on ice. 

189. Strawberry Fromage. — Soak l ounce gelatine in H pint 

cold water 15 minutes; then stir it over the fire till dissolved; wash 
and press 1 quart fresh strawberries through a sieve, add 1 cup 



JELUES. 43 

powdered Bugar, the gelatine and a few drops cochineal ; stir until 
it begins to thicken ; then add 1 pint whipped cream, turn into a 
form and pack for 2 hours in cracked ice and rock salt. 

190. Bum Bayarois. — Soak IH ounces gelatine in K cup 
cold water 15 minutes, add ^ cup boiling water, stir over the fire 
till dissolved, strain and set aside ; place a saucepan with the yolks 
of 6 eggs, % cup sugar and 1 pint milk over the fire and stir till 
nearly boiling ; remove from the fire, add H pint rum and the gelatine 
and continue stirring until it begins to thicken ; then stir in care- 
fully 1 pint whipped cream, turn into a form and pack in cracked 
ice for 2 hours. 

191. Frontage BaTarois GardinaL — Soak % ounce gelatine 

in H cup water 15 minutes; boil Ji pound unsweetened grated choco- 
late in 1 cup water with 2 tablespoonfuls sugar; add the gelatine and 
stir till dissolved; lay a plain form into cracked ice, pour the 
chocolate in by degrees and keep turning so that chocolate may 
form a complete lining inside 'of form; then set the form straigiit 
and pour in the bottom the remaining chocolate ; as soon as this is 
hard fill the form with Bavarois of Vanilla, No. 2, and let it renialii 
buried in ice for 2 hours. 

192. BaTarois may be made of different colors — ^suc.h an 
pistachio cream outside and bavarois of almonds inside ; or straw- 
berries outside and vanilla bavarois inside. 

193. Fromage Bayarols an Pain Noir. — Cut a small pumper- 
nickel into slices, lay on a tin in the oven to dry and roll them fine ; 
take 1 cup of these crumbs and stir them into a bavarois of almond 
or vanilla ; after the cream has been added turn into a form and 
pack in ice for 2 hours. For all bavarois the forms may be lined first 
with jelly and decorated with fruits, nuts, currants, etc. In order 
to do this place a form into cracked ice and pour in a few spoon- 
fuls fruit jelly ; when firm take whatever is going to be used onto a 
larding needle, dip each piece into jelly and lay them into the 
form in fancy patterns ; pour in a little more jelly and when firm 
lay the form over on its side ; pour in a little jelly at a time ; keep 



44 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

tnmmg form, so that the whole inside may be covered with* jelly; 
then decorate the same as bottom and fill with Fromage Bavarois 
& la Vanille or any other kind. 

194. Snow Pudding. — Soak 1 ounce gelatine in 1 pint cold 
water 20 minutes, add 1 pint boiling water, 1 cup sugar, the juice of 
2 lemons and the thin peel of 1 ; set it over the fire, stir and boil a 
few minutes, strain through a sieve and when it begins to thicken add 
the beaten whites of 6 eggs ; rinse out a form with cold water, 
sprinkle with granulated sugar, 511 in the mixture and set in a cool 
place ; when ready to serve turn the pudding onto a dish and serve 
with vanilla sauce made of the yolks of 6 eggs (see Sauce). Milk 
or cream may be substituted for water ; then the lemon juice is 
omitted and lemon extract used for flavoring. 

195. Wine Pudding. — Soak 1 ounce gelatine for 10 minutes 
in 1 pint cold water, add M pound sugar, H pint red wine and H 
pint raspberry juice ; stir over the fire till boiling hot, strain through 
a jelly bag and put in a form to cool ; when firm turn out on a fiat 
dish and serve with vanilla sauce or whipped cream. 

196. Apple Jelly Pudding. — Boil l H pounds peeled apples 
with 1 quart water, stir through a sieve, add H pound sugar and the 
juice of 2 lemons; soak 15 sheets of white and 3 of red gelatine 
for 5 minutes in cold water, press out and mix with the apple sauce ; 
stir over the fire until the gelatine is all dissolved ; then pour into a 
form and set on ice to get firm ; serve with vanilla sauce. 

197. Maraschino Pudding. — ^Take 10 eggs, 10 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, 14 sheets gelatine (soaked in cold water), H, pint rum 
(or maraschino) and the peel and juice of 1 lemon ; stir the yolks and 
sugar to a cream and add by degrees rum and lemon ; press out the 
gelatine and dissolve in 1 cup boiling water ; add it, stirring con- 
stantly, to the other mixture ; add lastly the whites of the eggs, 
which have been beaten to a stiff froth ; next pour into a mould and 
set aside to cool ; the mould should be rinsed with cold water and 
sprinkled with granulated sugar before pouring the pudding into it. 



JELLIES. 45 

196. Manilla Pudding. — ^Place a saucepan over the fire with 
1 pint milk, the yolks of 5 eggs, 4 tableepoonfnls sugar and the 
peel of 1 lemon ; stir this over the fire until just about to boil ; then 
instantly remove; have 1 ounce gelatine soaked in 1 cup milk, which 
stir into the hot mixture and set aside to cool ; as soon as it begins 
to thicken add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, pour 
into a mould and set on ice to get firm ; serve with fruit or claret 
sauce ; the mould should be rinsed with cold water and sprinkled 
with coarse suagar previous to being used. 

199. Bum Pudding. — ^Take 10 eggs (yolks and whites beaten 
separately), 1 pint sweet cream, H pound sugar, H pint rum and 
1 H ounces gelatine ; stir the yolks of the eggs and sugar to a cream, 
add the cream and rum, put this in a tin pail and set in a vessel of 
hot water ; keep stirring with an egg beater until just about to boil ; 
then quickly remove from the fire ; have gelatine soaked in a little 
cold water, add it to the cream and mix well; when cold add the 
beaten whites of the eggs, pour into a mould and set on ice ; in serv- 
ing turn out and send fruit sauce to table with it. 

200. Fine Chocolate Pudding. — H pound Baker's grated 

chocolate, 3 cups milk, 1 cup water, 1 H ounces gelatine, 5 table- 
spoonfuls sugar and 6 eggs ; boil chocolate with the water until well 
dissolved ; soak gelatine in a little cold water about 5 minutes ; place 
a saucepan with the milk, sugar, 6 yolks of the eggs and the boiled 
chocolate over the fire ; beat the whole with an egg beater until just 
about to boil ; add the gelatine, remove from fire, continue beating 
for a little while longer and set aside to cool ; when it begins to 
thicken add whites of the eggs, previously beaten to a stiff froth, 
and pour it into a jelly mould which has been well rinsed with cold 
water and sprinkled with sugar ; set either on ice or in cold water to 
get firm. In serving turn pudding onto a glass dish and serve with 
the following sauce : — Place a saucepan over the fire with 2 eggs, 1 
pint milk, 1 teaspoonful cornstarch and 2 tablespoonfuls sugar ; stir 
with an egg beater until nearly boiling ; quickly remove From fire, 
flavor with 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract and serve cold. This will 
make a sufilcient quantity for a family of 10 persons. 



46 PESERTS AND SALADS. 

801. Fine Claret Pudding. — 1 pint claret, H pint water, H 
tabloBpoonful cornstarch, the thin peel of H lemon, 4 tablespoonf ula 
Bugar, 4 eggs and 8 sheets of red gelatine; lay gelatine in cold 
water and let it remain until the padding is prepared ; put the wine, 
water, cornstarch, sugar, lemon peel and yolks of the 4 eggs in a sauce- 
pan and beat it up well with an egg beater for 5 minutes ; then place 
saucepan with its contents over the fire and continue beating till just 
before boiling ; remove from the fire, squeeze the water from gela- 
tine, put it into the saucepan and mix with its contents ; then set 
aside to cool ; as soon as it begins to thicken add the whites of the 
4 eggs, previously beaten to a very stiff froth ; when this is well 
blended together rinse a jelly mould with cold water, sprinkle with 
sugar, pour in the mixture and set it either in cold water or on ice to 
get firm ; serve with vanilla or cream sauce or turn the pudding onto 
a glass dish and lay a border of whipped cream around it. 
This pudding if made according to above recipe is very fine and 
sufficient for a family of 6 persons. 

202. White Wine Pudding.— >i bottle white wine, 2 of red 
and 6 sheets of white gelatine, the grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, 
a little vanilla, 5 eggs and 6 tablespoonf uls sugar ; lay the gelatine 
in cold water ; place a saucepan with yolks of the 6 eggs, lemon, 
sugar, vanilla and wine over the fire and stir constantly until just 
about to boil ; then remove from fire, press gelatine out, add to the 
hot mixture and set aside to cool ; as soon as it begins to set whip 
whites of the 5 eggs to a stiff froth and stir them through it ; fill a 
jelly mould with the mixture and set it on ice to get firm ; serve with 
vanilla sauce. The mould should be rinsed with cold water and 
dusted with coarse sugar previous to pouring the pudding into it. 

203. Gold Apple Pudding. — Put 1 H pounds peeled and sliced 
apples in a saucepan with 1 }i quarts water ; stew till tender, strain 
through a colander, return it to saucepan and add 1 pound sugar ; 
soak 2 ounces gelatine in a little cold water, add to the apples, let 
the whole boil for a few minutes and pour it into a form to cool : 
serve with vanilla sauce. 



FINE COLD PUDDINGS. 47 



PINE COLD PUDDINGS. 

204. Pudding i, la Polonaise.— Beat the yolks of 10 eggs 
and 2 whole eggs with an egg beater with 1 H pints Rhine wine 
(or white wine), 1 cup sugar and the grated rind of 1 lemon and 
the juice of 4 ; strain this into a large kettle and beat over a slow fire 
till nearly boiling ; remove the kettle, place it into cracked ice or 
cold water and continue beating till cold; in the meantime soak 
IH ounces gelatine in H cup cold water for 15 minutes, add 
H cup boiling water and stir over the fire till dissolved ; then 
stir it slowly into the cream, beating constantly ; add lastly }i cup 
rum; next place a cream form into cracked ice, put in a few spoon- 
fuls cream and put over this a layer of vanilla wafers which have 
been soaked in sugar syrup with a little rum ; after 5 minutes add 
more cream and wafers ; continue until the cream is used up ; leave 
on ice for 2 hours ; when ready to serve dip the form into hot water, 
turn the pudding onto a round dish and serve; sufficient for 12 
persons. If this pudding is too large half the quantities may be used. 

205. Peach Pudding (with Champagne).— Pare and cut 

into halves 1 H dozen large, ripe peaches ; put them into a dish with 
the blanched pits, add 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla, or put H 
stick vanilla between the fruit ; cover and let them stand about 2 
hours ; then divide the peaches into 2 parts ; press one part through 
a hair sieve and add the peach juice and IH ounces gelatine 
previously soaked in cold water and dissolved in boiling water; 
when this is well mixed set it aside ; cut some small sponge cakes 
into slices, put on a plate and pour a little champagne over them ; set 
a plain tin form into cracked ice and pour in some champagne jelly 
(see Jelly) ; let it get firm and lay in the center one of the peach pits ; 
lay around this some of the peach halves, pour a few spoonfuls 
more jeUy over them and then a thin layer of whipped champagne 
jelly which has been colored with cochineal to a delicate pink ; add 
to the peaches which have been pressed through a sieve 1 pint 
whipped cream and H bottle champagne ; fill the cream in alternate 
layers with peaches and sponge cake into the form; let the last layer 



48 DESERTS AND SALADS 

be cream; let the form remain 2 hours longer m the ice; in serving 
dip the form in hot water, turn the pudding onto a handsome dish 
and garnish the edge with small croutons of champagne jelly which 
has been colored to a delicate pink with cochineal. White wine 
may be substituted for champagne. 

206. Pineapple Pudding h la Boyale. — Pare and cut in 

half a nice, ripe pineapple ; remove the hard part from the center 
and cut the pineapple into fine slices ; put into a bowl and sprinkle 
8 tablespoonfuls sugar over them, cover and let stand 2 hours; in 
the meantime prepare 1 pint white wine jelly ; set a plain tin form 
into cracked ice, pour some jelly into it and let stand till firm ; then 
put a wreath or a star of pineapple over the jelly, sprinkle a few 
blanched almonds between them and pour some more jelly over it ; 
when this is firm turn form on its side, pour a little jelly in and 
keep turning in the cracked ice till jelly is firm ; lay slices of pineapple 
on the sides, sprinkle blanched almonds cut into strips between, ])our 
over a little more jelly and turn the form till all is firm ; in the 
meantime boil 1 pound sugar with 1 cup water 10 minutes and add 
1 ounce gelatine which has been previously soaked in H cup cold 
water and dissolved in H cup boiling water ; remove the slices of 
pineapple, add the juice from pineapple to the boiled syrup, set this 
into cracked ice and stir till it begins to thicken ; then add 1 pint 
whipped cream and fill the cream into the form alternately with 
layers of lady fingers and macaroons which have been previously 
dipped into the syrup ; cover the form and pack it in ice for 2 hours ; 
cut the remaining slices pf pineapple into dice, mix with some of 
the cold jelly, put in small tin forms and garnish the pudding, when 
turned out, with them. 

207. Orange Pudding ft la Haltaise. — Boil IH cups sugar 

with 1 cup water 5 minutes ; add the juice of G oranges, the grated 
rind of 2 and 1 H ounces gelatine which has been soaked for H 
hour in cold water ; stir until gelatine is melted, strain through a fine 
sieve, place on ice and stir till it begins to thicken ; then add 1 pint 
whipped cream ; mix the juice of 6 oranges and 1 lemon with 1 cup 
sugar syrup and strain through a sieve ; cut the crust off a sponge 



PINE COLD PUDDINGS. 49 

cake which has been baked in a deep pan the day before, cut the 
cake into slices about H inch in thickness and dip each slice in the 
orange liquor ; set a plain tin form into cracked ice and pour in K 
pint plain orange jelly (see Jelly) ; let this get firm ; decorate the 
bottom with a wreath of green pistachio nuts or blanched almonds 
and currants, or any kind of fruit, such as strawberries, cherries or 
plums ; pour over some jelly ; as soon as firm add a few spoonfuls 
jelly, then a layer of the orange cream and over this the sponge 
cake ; continue with layers of cream and sponge cake till all is used ; 
let the last layer be cream ; let the form remain in ice for 2 hours ; 
in serving turn the pudding onto a handsome round dish and gar- 
nish with orange quarters glazed with sugar. 

208. Pudding de SaTOle h POrange. — ^Remove the skin 

from 3 oranges, divide them into quarters and remove pits without 
disfiguring the fruit ; boil 1 H cups sugar with 1 cup water 5 min- 
utes, remove it from the fire, add H pint Rhine wine, the juice of 
6 large oranges and the grated rind of one ; when cold add 2 ounces 
dissolved gelatine (see Gelatine), set on ice and stir till it begins 
to thicken; then add the orange quarters; place a tin form in 
cracked ice and cover the bottom with some clear orange or lemon 
jelly to the depth of about H inch ; as soon as jelly is firm decorate 
the bottom with orange quarters and blanched nuts; add to the 
juice of 6 oranges H bottle Rhine wine and sweeten with sugar; 
cut a medium sized sponge cake into slices, dip in the orange juice 
and put them in alternate layers with orange and jelly into the 
form ; let it remain on ice 2 hours ; when ready to serve dip the 
form into hot water, turn onto a round dish and decorate the edge 
with orange quarters and finely chopped orange jelly. 

209. Chestnut Pudding ft la Daupliine.r-Boil i pound 

chestnuts for a few minutes, throw them into cold water and re- 
move outside and inside brown skin ; then boil the chestnuts in milk 
till soft and press them through a sieve ; add to puree the yolks of 
6 eggs, 1 pint cream, 1 teaspoonful vanilla and G tablespoonfuls 
sugar ; stir this over the fire till nearly boiling, add 1 }i ounces dis- 
solved gelatine, set the cream into cracked ice and stir till it begins 



50 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

to thicken ; cut some sponge cake into slices and pour a little rum 
over them ; then place a tin form in cracked ice (if a form is not 
handy use a tin kettle), pour a few spoonfuls of the cream into it 
and let stand till firm ; lay over this some preserve^ apricots or 
pineapples with K pound citron cut into dice and the sponge cake ; 
continue this in alternate layers till all is used ; let the pudding re- 
main for 2 hours in ice ; when ready to serve dip the form into hot 
water, turn pudding onto a dish and pour % pint vanilla syrup 
over it. 

210. Pudding d. la Oirot. — ^Place a saucepan on the stove 
with 1 % pints sweet cream, the yolks of 6 eggs, 4 tablespoonf uls 
sugar and 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence ; stir this over the fire tUl 
nearly boiling, remove the cream and set aside to cool ; then add 
1 }i ounces dissolved gelatine ; soak K pound lady fingers and }i 
pound macaroons in cherry wine ; then place a tin pudding form 
with tube in the center into cracked ice, put in a few spoonfuls 
cream and let it get firm ; put over this some of the soaked lady 
fingers and macaroons and over them some preserved pineapple or 
cherries ; over this put cream, fruit and cake ; continue in this way 
until all is used ; let the last layer be cream ; close the form and 
pack it in cracked ice, where it should remain 2 hours ; when ready 
to serve turn the pudding onto a round dish, fill the opening in 
center with whipped cream flavored with vanilla and garnish the 
edge of dish with preserved fruit. 

211. Chocolate Pudding ft la HoUandaise.— Boil K pound 

Baker's grated chocolate in ^i pint water, add M ])int sugar and 1 
teaspoonful extract of vanilla ; when cold add 1 % ounces gelatine 
which has been soaked in % pint cold water and dissolved in % pint 
hot water; set the chocolate mixture into cracked ice and stir till it 
begins to thicken ; then add 1 pint whipped cream ; if not sweet 
enough add a little more sugar ; set a tin pudding form with a tube 
in the center into cracked ice, pour in some clear fruit or wine jelly 
(see Jelly) and let it get firm ; decorate the bottom with blanched 
almonds; take pieces of almonds up with a larding needle, dip 
them into jelly and lay in a pointed border close to the edge ; pour 



FINE COLD PUDDINGS. 51 

over a little more jelly ; in the meantime soak 20 vanilla wafers and mac- 
aroons in sweet cream ; when the jelly in form is firm put in a layer of 
wafers and macaroons ; put over this a layer of the chocolate cream ; as 
soon as the cream is firm put in the remaining wafers and macaroons 
and lastly the remaining cream ; let the pudding remain on ice for 
about 3 hours ; when ready to serve dip the form into hot water, turn ' 
the pudding onto a round dish and lay a border of whipped cream 
flavored with extract of vanilla around it ; fill the opening in center 
with whipped cream. 

212. Pudding i, la Belne. — Set a border form into cracked 
ice and pour in to the depth of about H inch some white wine jelly ; 
when the jelly is firm put in some fruit, such as strawben'ies, 
cherries, plums or peaches, and pour over a few spoonfuls jelly ; 
after the lapse of 5 minutes pour in more jelly ; when firm put in 
another layer of fruit and then fill the form with jelly ; let it remain 
on the ice till ready to serve ; pare and cut into slices 12 large, ripe 
peaches, sprinkle thickly with sugar and let them stand 1 hour; 
press them with the juice through a sieve, add 1 H ounces gelatine 
dissolved in water, set on ice and stir till it begins to thicken ; then 
add 1 pint whipped cream, 1 glass sherry wine and a few lady 
fingers broken into pieces ; fill the cream into a highly pointed form 
and set it into cracked ice for 2 hours ; when ready to serve turn 
out the jelly from the border form onto a round dish ; then turn out 
the cream from the highly pointed form ; place the latter in the 
center of the jelly border and serve. 

213. Pudding i, PAllemande.— Boil l K pints milk with 4 
tablespoonf uls sugar, H teaspoonf ul salt and the thin peel of 1 lemon ; 
mix 1 cup flour with 1 cup milk to a smooth paste and add it to the 
boiling milk, stirring constantly ; boil a few minutes, remove from 
the fire, add the beaten yolks of 6 eggs and stir until nearly cold ; 
then add the whites of the 6 eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; rinse a jelly 
form with cold water, sprinkle with sugar, pour in the mixture and 
place on ice for 3 or 4 hours ; in serving turn the pudding onto a 
dish, garnish with strawberries and serve with the following sauce : — 
Boil 2 teasponf uls cornstarch in 1 )!b cups water, sweeten with sugar, 



52 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

remove from the fire, add the juice of 1 lemon, H pint strawberry 
juice, 1 glass Rhine wine and serve when cold with the pudding. 

« 

214. Strawberry Pudding. — Place a round tin form into 
cracked ice and pour in some orange jelly ; when firm lay the form 
over on its side, pour in more jelly, turn the form around and pour 
in more jelly ; continue in this way until the whole inside of form is 
glazed with the jelly ; mix 1 pint bruised strawberries with 1 pint 
sugar syrup flavored with vanilla and add 1 }i ounces dissolved 
gelatine ; put this on ice and stir till it begins to thicken ; pour some 
Madeira wine over some lady fingers and let them soak about 10 
minutes ; put a layer of the strawberry pure6 in the form, over this 
some lady fingers and continue with cream and cake in alternate 
layers till all is used ; let the form remain on ice for 2 hours ; then 
turn the pu4ding onto a dish, garnish with chopped orange jelly and 
nice, large strawberries which have been dipped into the jelly and 
serve with strawberry syrup. 

215. Imperial Pudding. — Place a cream form into cracked 
ice and pour in some white wine jelly colored to a delicate pink 
with cochineal ; when the jelly is firm decorate the bottom with 
preserved pineapple cut into the shape of dice and blanched 
almonds cut into strips; pour over a few spoonfuls jelly and 
let it remain till firm ; place a saucepan with 1 pint cream, the 
yolks of 6 eggs and 5 tablespoonf uls sugar over the fire and stir 
until nearly boiling; when cold add IH ounces dissolved gelatine 
and }i pint best arrac ; soak 1 dozen vanilla wafers and the same 
quantity of macaroons in sugar syrup mixed with'^champagne and 
arrac for 10 minutes ; stir the cream on ice until it begins to thicken ; 
then add 1 pint whipped cream and lastly H pint champagne ; fill 
the cream in alternate layers with wafers and macaroons in the form; 
let the pudding remain for 2 hours on ice ; pour into tartlet forms 
some orange jelly with small dice of pineapple ; in serving dip the 
form into hot water and turn the pudding onto a round dish ; also 
turn out the jelly from the small moulds and lay them around the 
dish. 



FINE COLD PUDDINGS. 53 

216. 8ll6doise of Apples. — ^Pare l dozen large apples, bore pegs 
therefrom with an apple corer and lay them in water with lemon 
juice ; prepare 1 dozen large Bartlet pears the same way ; boil the 
apple pegs in sugar syrup with lemon juice, to keep them white, and 
boil the pears in sugar syrup with cochineal ; care must be taken not to 
boi] them too long, so that they will not fall apart ; transfer them to a 
dish and set aside to cool ; wash the apple and pear peels, also the 
cores ; put them in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover and boil 
till done ; strain through a jelly bag ; measure the liquor and take 
for 1 quart IH ounces gelatine, the thin peel and juice of 1 lemon, 
1 cup sugar and the whites of 2 eggs; soak the gelatine Jn a little 
cold water 15 minutes; put the liquor with lemon, sugar and well 
beaten whites over the fire ; when hot add the gelatine, stir con- 
stantly and boil 5 minutes ; remove to side of stove, add ^ pint 
white wine and strain through a jelly bag ; place a plain form with 
tube in the center into cracked ice and pour a few spoonfuls jelly 
in the bottom of it ; when firm lay the form over on its side, pour 
in more jelly, keep turning and add by degrees more jelly ; continue 
this process untU the jelly has f om\ed a complete lining inside of 
form ; lay the pegs of apples and pears in slanting rows onto a nap- 
kin and cut them all the same length ; then take each one separately 
onto a larding or knitting needle and dip into cold jelly ; first lay a 
row of red on the side of form, then a row of white in an opposite 
direction ; continue until the form is covered, pour over some thick 
jelly and when firm fill the inside with apple bavarois made as 
follows: — Prepare 1 pint apple sauce, press it through a sieve, add 
1 teaspoonful vanilla and sweeten to taste; soak IG sheets gelatine 
in cold water for 10 minutes, press out, put in a bowl and pour }i 
cup boiling water over it; stir until dissolve<l, add to the apples and 
stir until it begins to thicken ; then mix in 1 pint whipped cream or 
the beaten whites of 6 eggs ; fill this into the form, cover and let it 
remain on ice till firm ; in serving dip the form into hot water, dry it 
quickly, turn the suedoise onto a round dish and garnish with fruit ; 
the apple may be bored out into rounds like marbles and boiled the 
same way — half red and half white ; they are then laid in rows on 
the side of form over one another, alternately with white and red 



64 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

till the form is lined with them; then place a small form inside, 
pour sufficient jelly around to cover the fruit and fill up the space 
between the inside form and fruit; let it remain on ice till firm; 
then pour in the inside form some hot water, draw it out and fill 
the inside with any kind of frozen cream ; serve at once. 

217. BuMoise of Pears. — Pare and quarter 12 large Bartlet 
or duchess pears and cut each quarter lengthwise into 4 slices ; boil 
half the slices in sugar syrup with lemon juice and the other half in 
sugar syrup with cochineal ; lay them on a napkin to dry ; pour 
a little wine jelly into a plain fonn and Jay on the bottom some of 
the slices in the shape of a star ; when finn turn the form over on 
its side and lay in first a row of white slices, then a row of red ; dip 
each piece into cold wine jelly before laying it in the form ; con- 
tinue in this way until the sides of form are covered; then pour in 
a few spoonfuls jelly and keep turning the form, in order that the 
jelly may be evenly distributed over, the fruit ; pare and cut into 
small pieces }i dozen large pears, put them over the fire with a little 
water and boil till soft ; press them through a sieve and set aside to 
cool ; boil 1 cup sugar in 1 cup water with the juice of }i lemon for 
a few minutes; soak 16 sheets gelatine in cold water 5 minutes, press 
out, add it to the sugar and boil a little longer ; remove from fire, 
mix wuth the pear puree and stir till it begins to thicken ; whip 1 
pint sweet cream to a froth, add 2 tablespoonfuls powdered 
sugar and 1 teasi)oonf ul vanilla extract ; add it to the above pear 
mixture and fill into the form; place it on ice for 2 hours; when 
ready to serve turn the suedoise onto a round dish and garnish with 
croutons of wine jelly. 

218. Timbale de P6che & la Cond6. — Line a deep round 

form with rich pie crust, lay buttered paper over it, fill the form 
with dry peas and put in X)ven to bake ; when baked take it from the 
oven, remove the peas, return form to oven and let the crust dry for 
a few minutes ; j)lace 1 cup rice with cold water over the fire and 
boil a few minutes; drain in colander, rinse w^ith water and. boil in 
milk till soft and thick ; add 14, cup sugar, }4 tablespoonf ul butter 
and set it in a warm place ; pare and cut into halves 1 dozen large, 



FINE COLD PUDDINGS. 55 

ripe peaches and boil a few minutes in sugar syrup ; draw them to 
side of stove to keep warm ; also have the form with crust (or 
timbale) setting in a warm place ; mix 14, cup whipped cream with 
the rice and fill i^ alternately with the peaches in the form inside of 
timbale ; let the last layer be rice ; put a round dish over the form 
and turn the timbale onto it ; cut a round hole in the center, put in 
a few peaches and pour the peach syrup all over the timbale. 
Timbale of cherries, apricots, pineapples, pears and apples are made 
in the same manner. 

219. Timbale de Biz i, la Napolitaine. — Put K pound par- 
boiled rice with 1 quart milk, H teaspoon^ul salt, 1 H tablespoon- 
f uls butter and a little vanilla over the fire and boil till rice is 
tender; when done add some seedless raisins, currants and fine 
citron (1 cupful in all) and set aside to cool ; stir 4 tablespoonf uls 
sugar with 1 whole e^g and the yolks of 4 to a cream ; add 2 table- 
spoonfuls Madeira wine and mix it with the rice ; line a deep round 
form with thin neapolitan paste, fill it with the rice, put on a cover 
of the same dough and bake 1 hour ; when baked turn the timbale 
onto a dish, pour over it a fruit sauce mixed with Madeira wine and 
send some in a saucere to table with it. 

220. Pear Timbale. — Pare, quarter and stew 1 dozen Bartlet 
pears with 1 bottle claret, 1 cup sugar, a small piece of cinnamon 
and % cup seedless raisins ; when done pour them on a sieve to 
drain and cool ; line a buttered, deep round form or tin pan with 
about 1 inch of biroche dough (see Biroche), fill with the pears, 
put on a cover of the same dough and let it stand in a warm place 
for H hour ; then bake in a medium hot oven ; when baked turn the 
timbale onto a round dish, pour some of the pear syrup over and 
serve the rest in a saucere with it. 

221. Timbale i la Sicilienne. — Butter a deep round form, line 
it with neapolitan paste, cover the latter with buttered paper, fill the 
form with dry peas and bake in a hot oven ; when done and cold re- 
move peas and paper, take* the timbale from the form, brush over 
the inside and outside with peach or apricot marmalade and decorate 
rait ound and on top with blanched half almonds and currants ; take 



56 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

a form 1 inch wider than the one above, place it into cracked ice 
and pour in, to the depth of about %, inch, Bome clear lemon jelly; 
as soon as cold place timbale into the form and fill space between 
the timbale and f opn with lukewarm lemon jelly ; let it remain on 
ice till needed ; when ready to serve fill the timbale with peach, 
pineapple or strawberry plombiere or any kind^of frozen cream ; dip 
the form into warm water, dry quickly, turn it onto a round dish 
and decorate with sugared orange quarters. 

222. Timbale of Mixed Fruit. — Take some preserved 
peaches, pineapples, cherries and pears and put them on a sieve to 
drain ; then put them in a dish with % cup currants or apple jelly 
and 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla sugar ; mix all together and fill it into a 
form lined with biroche dough ; cover with the same dough and 
finish same as Pear Timbale. 

223. Chocolate Plombiere. — Dissolve % pound grated 
chocolate in % cup water, add the yolks of 8 eggs, 1 pint cream, 1 
teaspoonf ul vanilla* extract, 6 tablespoonfuls sugar and stir this over 
the fire till nearly boiling ; strain through a hair sieve and when 
cold put it in a freezer ; finish the same as Orange Plombiere. 

224. Orange Plombiere. — Strain the juice of 6 oranges and 
rub the skin from 2 with loaf sugar; dissolve % pound sugar in 1 
cup cold water and mix it with the orange juice and orange sugar; 
put into a freezer and turn and work it till it thickens ; then add 1 
pint whipped cream and work it for 10 minutes longer; then fill the 
mixture into a form, cover tightly and paste a strip of buttered pa- 
per around the edge of cover ; then pack the form into cracked ice 
and salt; lay plenty of ice on top and let it remain from 1 to 2 
hours. 

225. Bum Plombiere. — Place a saucepan with 1 pint cream, 
the yolks of 10 eggs and 1 cup sugar over the fire and stir till nearly 
boiling ; remove from the fire and set aside to cool ; cut 6 ounces 
candied orange peel into small dice and boil them for a few min- 
utes in a little water; drain on a sieve, add them to the cream 
and put the mixture into a freezer ; let it freeze till it begins to 



FINE COLD PUDDINGS. 57 

thicken ; then add H cup best rum and 1 pint whipped cream ; fill 
the mixture into a form, paste a strip of buttered paper around the 
edge of cover and pack in ice and salt for 2 hours. 

236. Plombiere of Maraschino Gnra^oa is made the same 

way. 

227. Pistache Plombiere.— Pound H pound blanched 
almonds and }i pound blanched pistachio nuts with a little cream 
to a paste ; place a saucepan with the paste, 1 14 pints cream, 1 cup 
sugar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla and the yolks of "8 eggs over the fire 
and stir until nearly boiling; remove cream from fire, set it in cold 
water and stir till cold ; add a little spinach color and strain through a 
hair sieve ; then finish the same as Strawberry Plombiere. 

228. Plombiere aUX Caf6. — Pour l K pints boiling cream 
over 3 tablespoonf uls freshly ground coffee and let it stand well 
covered for 10 minutes; strain through a napkin; put the coffee 
cream in a saucepan over the fire with 1 cup sugar and the yolks of 
8 eggs and stir till nearly boiling; remove the cream from fire, set 
saucepan in cold water and stir till cold ; then finish the same as 
Strawberry Plombiere. 

229. Tea Plombiere. — Pour l K pints boiling pream over 1 
ounce tea and let it stand 5 minutes ; strain and finish the same as 
Coffee Plombiere. 

230. Peach Plombiere. — Pare, quarter and press through a 
sieve 15 Targe, ripe peaches ; dissolve % pound sugar in 1 cup water 
and add it to the peach puree ; put this mixture into the freezer and 
finish the same as Strawberry Plombiere. 

231. Vanilla Plombiere. — Place a saucepan with 3 cups 
milk over the fire, add the yolks of 8 eggs, 1 cup sugar and 2 tea- 
spoonfuls vanilla extract and stir till nearly boiling ; remove from 
the fire, set the saucepan into cold water and stir till cool ; then put 
into a freezer and let it freeze till it begins to thicken ; then add 1 
pint whipped cream and finish the same as Strawberry Plombiere. 



68 DESERTS AND SALADS 

232. Strawberry Plomblere. — Wash 1 quart strawberries 
and press them through a sieve ; dissolve % pound sugar in H cup 
water and add this syrup to the strawberry pure6 ; 2 hours before 
serving pour it into a freezer and turn it about 20 minutes, or till 
it begins to thicken ; then mix with 1 pint whipped cream and let 
it remain a little while longer in the freezer; fill into a form, cover 
tightly, paste a strip of buttered paper around the edge of cover 
and pack in ice and salt for 2 hours ; in serving dip form into hot 
water, quickly wipe it dry, turn the plombiere onto a round ^ish 
and garifish with fancy cake. 

233. Pineapple Plombiere. — Pare and cut into small dice 
1 ripe pineapple, put them into a dish and pour 1 pint cold 
sugar syrup over it ; let it stand 4 hours ; 2 hours before serving put 
the fruit into a freezer and freeze till it begins to thicken ; then add 
1 pint whipped c|:eam and finish the same as in foregoing recipe. 
Note. — This plombiere may also be served in a glass dish directly 
from the freezer ; it must then, of course, be worked until firm. If 
preserved fruit is used less sugar must be taken, and color and 
taste should be freshened up with lemon juice and a few drops of 
cochineal. Plombiere of raspberries, currants or cherries is made 
in a similar manner. 



FROZEN PUDDINO-S. 
234. Frozen Strawberry Padding. — Whip 1 quart rich, 

sweet cream until thick, add 2 cups powdered sugar and lastly stir 1 
quart mashed strawberries through the cream ; fill this into a pudding 
form with a tube in the center, cover tightly and put a strip of 
buttered paper around the •edge of cover, so that no water can 
enter ; have ready a large pail or a butter tub, put some cracked ice 
on the bottom, sprinkle over some rock salt, set onto this the form, 
fill up the sides with cracked ice and sprinkle salt between ; cover 
the top of form with ice, the whole with a piece of carpet or a 
cloth and set in a cool place for 4 hours ; when ready to serve lift 



FROZEN PUDDINGS. 69 

from the ice, remove the paper, wipe off the form, dip it in hot 
water, turn the padding onto a dish and serve at pnce. 

236. Rich Ice Cream Pudding.— Beat the yolks of 9 eggs 

with }i pound sugar to a cream and add 1 quart whipped cream ; 
fill this into a tin pudding form with a tube in the center, paste 
over the edge of cover a strip of buttered paper and bury in cracked 
ice and rock salt for 4 hours, the same as Strawberry Pudding. 

236. Pudding i, la Pflckler Muskau.— Stir into 1 quart 

whipped cream 6 tablespoonf uls sugar and G ounces finely pounded 
macaroons; fill the cream into a form and bury it in ice and rock 
salt for 4 hours, the same as Strawberry Pudding. 

237. Ice Pudding ik la Prince Pflckler.— Whip 1 quart 

cream till stiff and divide it into 3 parts ; boil 6 ounces grated 
chocolate in H pint water with }i cup sugar smooth and thick ; 
remove the chocolate from the fire and when cold mix with it \ of 
the whipped cream; mix 1 pint bruised raspberries with 
another ^ of the whipped cream and add sufficient sugar to 
sweeten (or take raspberry jelly) ; add to the last J of whipped 
cream 5 tablespoonf uls sugar and 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract; 
place a form into cracked ice, fill in the cream in finger thick 
layers alternately — ^first the chocolate, then the raspberry, then the 
white; continue until all is used; cover the form tightly, paste 
around the edge of cover a strip of buttered paper and bury the 
whole form in rock salt and ice for 4 hours ; if the ice melts more 
must be put around the form and some of the water drawn off; 
when ready to serve dip the form into hot water, turn the pudding 
onto a dish and serve at once. 

238. Frozen Chocolate Pudding. — Boil 6 ounces grated 

chocolate in Ji pint water with 4 tablespoonfuls sugar until thick 
and smooth ; when cold mix it with 1 H, pints whipped cream ; if not 
sweet enough add more sugar ; fill this into a tin pudding form, 
paste a strip of buttered paper around the edge of cover and bury 
the form in cracked ice and rock salt for 4 hours the same way as 
Strawberry Pudding. 



60 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

239. Bombe h la Altenberg. — Boil 1 H cups sugar with 1 cup 

water 10 minutes ; remove and when cold add the yolks of 6 eggs ; 
stir this over the fire till nearly boiling ; when cold mix it with 1 
pint whipped cream and 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract; fill this into 
a form, cover tightly and place into cracked ice ; boil 6 ounces choco- 
late in 1 cup water with }4 cup sugar and 1 teaspoonful vanilla until 
smooth ; put this into another form, also standing in ice and rock 
salt; when it begins to freeze spread the chocolate evenly around 
the inside of form, so as to form a complete lining; then cover the 
form and let it remain in ice until .hard ; next fill in the above 
vanilla cream, cover tightly, paste a strip of buttered paper around 
the edge of cover and bury the form in plenty of ice and rock salt 
for 4 hours ; in serving dip the f (Jt*m in hot water, quickly turn the 
bombe out onto a round dish, decorate with kisses and serve at 
once. 

240. Bombe h la Parisienne. — Press l quart ripe strawberries 

through a sieve, add 1 pound sugar dissolved in H pint cold water 
and a little Rhine wine ; pack a plain ice cream form into cracked 
ice and salt, pour in the strawberries and let freeze till it begins to 
thicken ; then spread the half frozen strawberry ice onto the sides 
and bottom of form so that it forms a complete lining inside; cover 
the form and let it remain in ice till hard; in the meantime have a 
pineapple cream prepared as follows : — 

241. Pineapple Cream for Bombe k la Parisienne. — 

Place a saucepan with the yolks of G ^gga and 1 pint pineapple 
syrup over the fire and stir until nearly boiling ; remove from the 
fire and when cold add 1 pint whipped cream ; fill this inside of the 
strawberry ice, cover the form tightly, paste a strip of buttered 
paper around the edge of cover and bury in ice and salt for 3 hours ; 
when ready to serve take out the form, rinse off with cold water, 
remove the paper, dip the form quickly into hot water and turn the 
bombe onto a handsome dish ; garnish with fruit, French candies or 
fancy cakes and serve at once. Note. — The strawberry ice may be 
first frozen in a freezer and then put into the form. 



FROZEN PUDDINGS. 61 

242. Ice Pudding (with Pumpernickel).— Cut 6 ounces 

pumpernickel into slices and dry them in the oven; roll them fine^ 
with a rolling pin and sift the crumbs through a^ coarse sieve ; mix 
them with 1 quart whipped cream, add 1 teaspoonf ul extract of 
vanilla and 1 cup sugar ; fill the cream into a tin form with a tube in 
the center, cover tightly, paste a strip of buttered paper around the 
edge of cover and bury in cracked ice and rock salt for 4 hours ; 
when ready to serve dip the form into hot water, turn the pudding 
onto a round dish and serve at once. 

243. Ice Pudding (with Almonds).— Stir the yolks of 8 

eggs with K pound sugar to a cream, add 1 quart whipped cream, 
H pound ground almonds and finish the same as Strawberry Pud- 
ding. 

244. Frozen Pudding i, la Montmorency.— Mix 2 table- 
spoonfuls sugar with 1 cup finely chopped sweet almonds and 10 

bitter ones ; put this into a tin pan and roast in the oven to a light 
brown, stirring often ; place a saucepan with the yolks of 6 eggs, 1 
cup sugar, 1 pint cream or milk and the roasted almonds over the 
fire and stir constantly until nearly boiling ; then strain through a 
sieve ; when cold add 2 tablespoonf uls caramel (see Boiling Sugar) 
and orange blossom water ; put this into an ice cream freezer and 
work till it begins to thicken ; then add %, pint whipped cream, Ji 
cup finely chopped pistachio nuts and 3 ounces finely powdered 
macaroons ; continue working the freezer till the cream is frozen 
hard ; place a cream form in ice and salt, pour some cherry syrup 
around the sides and bottom, sprinkle with pistachio fillets and 
some preserved red cherries ; then fill in the cream with some of the 
cherries laid between, put on the cover, paste a strip of buttered 
paper around its edge and completely bury the form in ice and rock 
salt for 1 hour ; when ready to serve lift from the ice, rinse off with 
cold water, remove the paper, wipe the form dry and quickly dip 
it into hot water ; have ready a handsome dish with a folded nap- 
kin; turn the pudding onto the dish, garnish with small fancy ' 
cakes and serve with whipped cream flavored with vanilla or 
maraschino. 



62 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

245. Pudding Glac6 il la Hetternieh.— Pound 3 ounces 

blanched almonds and 3 ounces blanched pistachio nuts to a paste ; 
stir over the fire the yolks of 6 eggs, 6 tablespoonfuis su^ar, 1 pint 
cream and a little vanilla till nearly boiling ; add the almonds and 
pistachio paste and set aside to cool ; then strain through a 'sieve ; 
soak 6 ounces seedless raisins, 3 ounces finely cut preserved orange 
peel and a little finely cut preserved apricots in maraschino and cut 
a small sponge cake into slices ; 4 hours before serving place a high 
form into cracked ice and salt, put in a layer of cream and over 
this some fruit and cake ; continue with cream, fruit and cake al- 
ternately till all is used ; cover the form, paste a piece of buttered 
paper around the edge of cover and completely bury in plenty of 
cracked ice and salt ; when ready to serve rinse the form off with 
cold water, remove the paper, quickly dip the form into hot water, 
turn the pudding onto a dish and garnish with fruit and fancy cake ; 
serve with pistachio sauce made as follows: — Stir the yolks of 4 
eggs with 1 pint sweet cream and 2 tablespoonfuis sugar over the 
fire till nearly boiling; remove, from the fire, add 2 ounces* finely 
powdered pistachio nuts and serve when cold with the pudding. 

246. A la Duchesse de Berry. — Press l quart strawberries 

through a sieve ; dissolve % pound sugar in 1 cup cold water and 
add it to the strawberries ; set a form into cracked ice and salt for 
20 minutes, put in the strawberries and freeze it until thick ; then 
spread the strawberry ice around the sides and bottom of a high ice 
form and let it stand in ice till hard ; in the meantime prepare a 
cream for the inside ; mix 1 pint cream with 6 tablespoonfuis sugar, 
the yolks of 6 eggs and 1 cup preserved pineapple cut into small 
pieces ; stir this over the fire till nearly boiling ; remove it and when 
cold put into a freezer ; freeze until it begins to thicken ; then add 1 
pint whipped cream and freeze it for a few minutes loiiger ; then fill 
it into the strawberry form, cover tightly, paste a strip of buttered 
paper around the edge of cover and bury in plenty of ice and rock 
salt for 1 hour ; in serving take out of ice, rinse off with cold water, 
remove the paper, wipe the form dry, quickly dip it into hot water, 
turn the pudding onto a handsome dish and serve at once. 



FROZEN PUDDINGS. 63 

247. Pudding 61ae6 h la AUemande.— Put 2 dozen lady 

fingers on a long plate and pour over them some Madeira wine or 
maraschino ; set a plain form without a tube in ice and rock salt ; 
stir 1 pint cream with the yolks of 6 eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls sugar 
and 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract over the fire till nearly boiling ; 
when cold put in a freezer and freeze till it begins to thicken ; then 
add 1 pint whipped cream and freeze for a few minutes longer; then 
put a layer of this cream into the plain form, standing in ice, put 
over this a layer of lady fingers and a few spoonfuls apricot marma- 
lade or fruit jelly, then a layer of cream again ; continue this way 
until all is used ; let the last layer be cream ; put on the cover, paste 
a piece of^ buttered paper around the edge of it and bury the form 
completely in' ice and rock salt ; let it remain 1 hour ; then serve, 
garnished with fancy cake. Note. — If a form is not handy a 3- 
quart tin kettle will do. 

248. Frozen Padding k la Richelieu.— Boil H pound rice 

in water till done and pour it onto a sieve to drain ; pound H pound 
blanched almonds or pistachio nuts with a little cream to a paste ; re- 
move the shells and brown skin from H pound large chestnuts and boil 
them in milk till soft ; then strain them through a sieve and mix rice 
and nuts together; boil H cup sugar with H cup water for 10 minutes, 
add 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract, mix (hot) with the above mixture 
and let it stand for an hour ; put in a porcelain-lined saucepan 1 pint 
cream, the yolks of 6 eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls sugar and 1 teaspoon- 
ful vanilla extract ; stir this over the fire till nearly boiling ; remove 
it and set aside to cool ; spread 20 vanilla wafers on one side with 
apricot marmalade and put 2 and 2 together ; dip them into sherry 
wine and set aside ; also cut some stewed pineapple into dice ; set a 
form into cracked ice and salt and put in a few spoonfuls cream ; lay 
over the ciream a layer of wafers, rice and pineapple ; then cream 
again ; continue until all is used ; put on the cover, paste a strip of 
buttered paper around its edge and bury the form completely in ice 
and rock salt from 3 to 4 hours ; when ready to serve turn the pudding 
onto a dish with a folded napkin underneath and send cold pineapple 
or pistachio sauce to table with it. 



64 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

 

249. Frozen Chestnut Pudding. — Place a saacepan with H 
pound large chestnuts over the fire, cover with water and boil a few 
minutes ; drain the nuts in colander, remove the outside shell and 
the inside skin and boil in milk till soft ; press them through a sieve 
and add the yolks of 6 eggs to the pure^ and 1 pint sweet cream', 
H pound sugar and 1 teaspoon^ul extract of vanilla ; stir this over 
the fire till nearly boiling; strain through a fine sieve; boil for 15 
minutes 2 ounces well washed currants, the same of seedless raisins 
and finely cut citron and a little orange peel in water; drain on a sieve 
and let them lay for 2 hours in Madeira wine ; put a piece of ice 
(large enough to cover the bottom) in a strong pail or butter tub 
and sprinkle a handful of rock salt over it ; put onto this an ice cream 
freezer and fill up the sides with cracked ice and salt ; put in tlie 
chestnut cream and work till it begins to thicken ; then pour in not 
quite 1 pint whipped cream and work until it is frozen quite hard ; 
then add the fruit with the wine ; let it freeze a little longer ; trans- 
fer the cream to a pudding form with a tube in the center (or an ice 
form), put on the cover, paste a strip of buttered paper around its 
edge and bury the form in ice and salt for 1 hour ; when ready to 
serve rinse off the form with cold water, remove the paper and wipe 
dry ; then dip it quickly into hot water and turn the pudding onto a 
dish ; garnish with fancy cake and serve with whipped cream. 

260. Frozen Apple Pudding. — ^Pare and core 8 nice green- 
ing apples, cut them into quarters and stew with H cup water till 
tender ; boil 1 cup sugar with 1 Cup water for 5 minutes and add it 
to the apples with 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract and % cup apricot 
marmalade ; press the whole through a sieve ; when cold put it into 
an ice cream freezer and work till it begins to get thick ; then add 
1 pint whipped cream, 3 ounces currants and the same of seedless 
raisins and finely cut citron ; the last 3 ingredients should be boiled 
for 20 minutes in a little water and laid for }i hour in vanilla 
syrup; let the whole freeze until hard; fill the cream into a form, 
put on the cover, paste a strip of buttered paper around the edge 
of the latter and bury in salt and ice for 1 hour ; serve with whipped 
cream and garnish with fancy cakes. 



FROZEN PUDDINGS. 65 

261. Mousse of Pineapple. — line a plain form with white 
paper ; Bee that there are no creases in the paper ; lay it in even and 
smooth; set the form into cracked ice until following mixture is 
prepared: — Pare and cut into slices 1 ripe pineapple; dissolve 1 
pound sugar in 1 pint water and put it over the fire to boil ; add 
the pineapple slices and boil 20 minutes ; transfer them to a sieve to 
drain ; when cold cut some of the slices into halves and lay them 
inside on the side of form; cut the remaining slices of pineapple 
into dice and set them cold ; place a saucepan with 1 % cups pine- 
apple syrup and the yolks of 9 eggs over the fire and stir till nearly 
boiling ; remove from fire, add 1 cup pineapple dice and stir till 
cold; then mix it with 1 pint whipped cream; "fill this into the form, 
put on the cover and paste a strip of buttered paper around its 
edge ; then pack the form into cracked ice and salt so that it is com- 
pletely buried and let it remain 4 hours ; when ready to serve dip 
the form into hot water, dry quickly, turn the mousse onto a dish 
and garnish with fancy cakes. 

262. Mousse h la Yanllle. — Dissolve 1 cup sugar in 1 )fj cups 
water, add the yolks of 6 eggs and stir over the fire till nearly boil- 
ing ; remove quickly and stir till cold ; then add 1 pint whipped 
cream, 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla extract and finish the same as pine- 
apple in foregoing recipe. 

263. Mousse i, POrange. — ^Dissolve 1 cup sugar in 1 cup 
water and boil a few minutes with the juice of 1 lemon ; remove the 
syrup from the fire, put in the thin peel of 2 oranges and let them 
lay for a few minutes; then remove; rub off the skin from 6 oranges 
with loaf sugar and add the orange sugar to the sugar syrup with 
the juice of 6 oranges and the yolks of 9 eggs ; beat this with an 
egg beater till nearly boiling ; remove quickly, set it in cold water 
and continue beating till cold ; then add 1 pint whipped cream and 
finish the same as Pineapple Mousse. 

264. Mousse au Chocolat. — Dissolve 3 ounces grated choco- 
late in Jt8 cup water and boil for a few minutes ; strain through a 
sieve and set aside ; put in a saucepan the yolks of 6 eggs and 1 cup 

6 



66 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

sugar syrnp and stir over the fire till it begins to thicken ; remove 
it quickly, set saucepan in cold water, add the chocolate and stir 
till cold ; then mix it with 1 pint whipped cream and finish the same 
as Pineapple Mousse. 

255. Mousse an Haraskino. — Stir the yolks of 6 eggs with 
/i, cup sugar and 1 cup water over the fire to a cream ; remove it 
from the fire and stir till cold ; add ^ cup maraschino and 1 pint 
whipped cream and finish the same as Pineapple Mousse.* Bum 
may be substituted for maraschino. 



PAIN& 

256. Pain of Strawberries. — Put 1 quart ripe strawberries in- 
to a colander, rinse off with cold water and press them through a sieve ; 
soak 2 ounces gelatine in % pint cold water for 15 minutes, add H 
pint boiling water and stir over the fire till gelatine is dissolved ; set 
aside to cool ; then dissolve %, pound sugar in 1 pint cold water, put 
it over the fire with the juice of 1 lemon and boil 5 minutes; when 
cold add it with the gelatine to the strawberries ; also add % cup 
white wine and a little cochineal ; put the pain on ice till it begins 
to thicken ; then fill it into a form with a tube in the center, cover 
and place for 2 or 3 hours on ice. Pains of raspberries or currants 
are made the same way, using no lemon. 

257. Pain d' Ananas. — Take a jar of preserved pineapples, 
cut them into small dice, add )i pint white wine and a little, more 
sugar if necessary ; add the juice of 1 lemon and 2 ounces gelatine 
dissolved in 1 pint water ; place this on ice and stir it now and then ; 
as soon as it begins to thicken put into a form, which set on ice for 
2 or 3 hours; then serve. 

258. Pain d' Ananas i la Parisienne. — Chose a large, ripe 
pineapple and pare and grate it ; add 1 ^ cups sugar and stir until 
dissolved ; press the pineapple through a sieve and add the juice of 
4 oranges and 2 ounces gelatine dissolved in 1 pint water ; place a 
plain form into cracked ice and pour in a few spoonfuls orange jelly ; 



PAIN DB FRAISES. 67 

when this is hard lay the form over on its side, pour in more jelly 
and keep turning slowly, so that the jelly may get all over the sides 
and form a lining; next have some pistachio nuts or blanched 
almonds' cut into strips and sprinkle them over the sides and bottom 
of form ; set the pineapple mixture on ice and stir until it begins to 
thicken ; then fill into the form, cover and let it remain for 2 or 3 
liours in ice ; it is then ready to serve ; chop the trimmings of the 
pineapple fine, pour over some cold sugar syrup and let it stand 2 
hours ; strain, add a little dissolved gelatine and pour over the pain 
when sent to table. 

259. Pain de Peches. — ^Take 20 large, ripe peaches and pare 
and quarter them ; then press them through a sieve ; add to this 1 
pound sugar dissolved in 1 pint cold water and 2 ounces dissolved 
gelatine ; crack the stones, remove the pits, scald in boiling water 
and free them from their brown skin ; cut the pits in half and boil 
them in a little sugar syrup ; add to the peach mixture H cup white 
wine and fill it into a tin form with a tube in the center ; place 
the form on ice and let it remain till its contents begin to thicken ; 
ttien stir in the peach pits and let it remain on ice 2 hours longer. 
Pains of apricots, cherries or plums are made the same way. 

260. Pain i, la Victoria. — ^Press 1 pint ripe raspberries through 
a sieve and mix it with 1 ounce gelatine dissolved in H pint water; 
put }i cup sugar into Ji pint cold water and stir until dissolved; 
then add it to the raspberries with a glass of white wine ; place this 
on ice till it begins to thicken ; prepare 1 quart almond blanc-mange 
(see Blanc-Mange) ; set a plain form into cracked ice and put in a 
layer of raspberries about an inch in thickness; let this get hard; 
then put in a layer of blanc-mange ; after this is firm again put in 
raspberries, then blanc-mange ; continue till all is used ; let it remain 
on ice for 2 hours ; when ready to serve turn the pain onto a round 
dish and garnish with fruit. 

261. Pain de Peches h la Bichelien. — Prepare a pain the 

ame as Pain de Peches and also 1 pint almond blanc-mange ; set a 
plain form with a tube in the center into cracked ice and put in by 



68 DESERTS AKD SALADS. 

degrees the blanc-mange ; put it H inch in thickness all around on 
the sides and bottom of form, so that it forms a complete lining inside ; 
then fill in the pain of peaches and let it remain on ice for 2 hours ' 
in serving dip the form into hot water, wipe dry and turn its coatents 
into a glass dish. 

262. Pain de Peches i, la Cond6. — Pare and cut into halves 
1 yi dozen large, ripe peaches and boil them with their blanched 
pits in sugar syrup for about 10 minutes ; transfer the peaches to a 
dish or long tin pan, wipe dry and lay them with the hollow side 
up ; put half a pit in the center of each and pour a spoonful of jelly over 
each piece (the jelly should be previously stirred on ice till it begins 
to thicken) ; next set a plain form into cracked ice, pour in some 
plain fruit or wine jelly and keep turning the form until the inside 
is lined with the jelly ; cover the bottom with peaches; lay them so 
that the pits are to the outside ; then lay the remaining peaches in 
rows on the side of form, pour over some jelly and when firm fill up 
the form with bavarois aux apricots, which is prepared as follows : — 
Pare and cut into pieces 1 }i dozen ripe apricots, lay in a dish, 
sprinkle over 1 cup sugar and let them stand for 2 hours; then press 
them through a sieve ; mix the pure6 with 1 teaspoonf ul extract of 
vanilla and 1 ^ ounces dissolved gelatine ; put this on ice and stir till 
it begins to thicken ; then carefully stir 1 pint whipped cream through 
it ; fill the bavarois into form at once and let it remain on ice for 2 
or 3 hours. 

263. Pain de Pommes & la Cond6. — Choose 15 large pippin 

or greening apples and pare, quarter and stew them with a little 
water; press them through a sieve, add 1 cup sugar and when cold 
mix it with 2 ounces gelatine dissolved in 1 pint water and 1 pint 
almond nulk (prepared the same as for Blanc-Mange) ; place this on 
ice and stir till it begins to thicken ; fill it into a form which has 
already been set into cracked ice and let it remain for 2 or 3 hours ; 
boil the cores and peels of apples till soft ; strain through a bag, 
return the liquor to saucepan and boil 10 minutes ; then add to ^ 
pint of juice 1 cup sugar and boil for a few minutes ; pour the syrup 
into a dish and set aside to cool ; in serving dip the form into hot 



ICE CREAMS. 69 

water, wipe it dry and turn the pain onto a round dish, or into a 
large glass dish, and pour the apple syrup over it. This pain may 
be made of Bartlet pears in the same manner. 



ICE CREAMS. 
264. Directions for Making Ice Cream.— The implements 

needed are a freezer, rock salt and finely cracked ice. Ice cream 
freezers can be bought at any hardware store. They consist of a 
large wooden pail with a faucet on the side near the bottom and a 
freezer with a paddle inside. The cracking of the ice is best ac- 
complished by putting it into a coarse sack and pounding it fine 
with a hammer or mallet. Place the freezer into the pail, 
put in the peddle and cover the freezer tightly. Fill the space 
between the pail and freezer with fine cracked ice to ^/j 
its height, sprinkle over 2 handfuls salt and pack down the 
i(;e with a piece of wood, so that it may be firm all around the 
freezer ; continue with layers of ice, salt and the packing down till 
the ice reaches to the edge of cover ; next pour into the freezer the 
mixture that is to be frozen ; but care should be taken not to put in 
too mucji, for the cream needs plenty of room in order to become 
light and smooth ; cover the freezer and let it stand for 5 minutes ; 
then commence to turn ; after 10 minutes' turning remove the cover 
from freezer and cut the frozen cream with a long bladed knife 
from the sides of can ; repeat this every 10 minutes until the cream 
is frozen hard; then remove the paddle, even off the cream in the 
freezer, cover and let it stand for 10 minutes; do not draw off the 
water from pail until it stands above the ice and the freezer has 
lost its firm hold ; after drawing off the water fill the space up again 
with cracked ice and salt ; when the 10 minutes have elapsed fill 
the frozen cream into an ice form, cover tightly and paste a strip 
of buttered paper around the edge of cover; then pack the form 
into cracked ice and salt for 1 or 2 hours ; when ready to serve take 
the form from the ice, rinse it off with cold water, remove the 



70 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

paper and wipe the form dry; then dip it quickly into hot water, 
take off the cover, turn the cream onto a dish and serve at once. 

266. Ice Cream (large quantity). — 14 quarts sweet cream, 

6 quarts milk, 7 pounds sugar, 30 eggs and >4 pound gelatine ; soak 
gelatine for 10 minutes in a little of the milk ; put the remaining 
milk over the lire and boil ; then add the soaked gelatine and stir 
and boil till it is dissolved; set aside to cool a little; beat eggs and 
sugar to a cream and add by degrees the milk, stirring constantly ; 
return to tire and let it get boiling hot ; but do not allow it to boil, 
otherwise it will curdle ; remove from fire, pass it through a sieve 
and set aside to cool, stirring it occasionally; beat the cream until 
quite thick, gradually add the cold custard and continue beating 
for a little while longer; then put it in a freezer and freeze as 
directed. 

266. Fine Yanilla Ice Cream. — Beat the yolks of 8 eggs to 

a cream and add gradually 1 quart sweet cream which has pre- 
viously been boiled and cooled; add % pound sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls 
vanilla extract and stir the whole over the fire until nearly boiling; 
then remove from fire and when cold strain it through a sieve and 
freeze as directed. 

267. Custard Ice Cream. — ^Put 5 eggs in a saucepan and 

beat them to a froth ; add 1 cup sugar, 1 quart milk and set the 
saucepan in a vessel of boiling water over the fire ; stir constantly 
until tlie custard nearly boils ; then remove it from the fire and set 
the saucepan in cold water ; when cold strain it through a sieve, 
add 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla or lemon extract, put the custard in the 
freezer and freeze as directed. 

268. Plain Ice Cream. — Put 2 teaspoonfuls cornstarch, 6 

eggs, 2 cups sugar and 2 quarts milk in a saucepan over the fire 
and stir till just about to boil ; remove from the fire, flavor with 
lemon or vanilla and finish as directed. 

269. Plain Ice Cream (another way).— Put 1 quart milk and 
1 quart rich, sweet cream with the yolks of 8 eggs and 2 cups sugar 
over the fire and stir till just about to boil ; remove from fire, beat 



ICE CREAMS. 71 

the whites of the 8 eggs to a stiff froth and add them to the custard ; 
add 3 teaspoonfuls vanilla and finish as directed. 

370. Pistachio lee Cream. — H pound blanched pistachio 
nuts, }i pound blanched almonds, 1 quart rich, sweet cream, 1 % 
cups sugar, the yolks of 8 eggs and 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract; 
pound the nuts with a little water very fine ; place a saucepan over 
the fire with the cream, the yolks of the 8 eggs, sugar and vanilla 
and stir until nearly boiling; remove from the fire, stir in the nuts 
and when cold press the whole through a sieve ; finish as directed. 
Almond ice cream is made the same way. 

271. Maraschino Ice Cream. — ^Place a saucepan with 1 quart 
cream, K pound sugar and the yolks of 6 eggs over the fire and 
stir till it nearly boils ; remove from fire, strain through a sieve and 
when cold add 1 H gills maraschino ; finish as directed. Rum ice 
cream is made in the same manner. 

272. Caramel Ice Cream. — IH cups sugar, the yolks of 7 

eggs, 1 quart sweet cream and 1 tablespoonful orange blossom 
water ; boil % cup sugar with )i cup water until it turns to a light 
brown color, add )i cup boiling water and stir till the sugar is dis- 
solved ; put it in a saucepan with the cream, 1 cup sugar, yolks and 
orange water and stir the whole over the fire until nearly boiling ; 
when cold strain it through a sieve and finish as directed. 

273. Tea Ice Cream. — 1 ounce of the very best tea, 1 quart 
cream, the yolks of 6 eggs and % pound sugar ; boil the cream, put 
in the tea, cover and let it stand 5 minutes ; strain through a sieve 
and when nearly cold mix the cream, yolks and sugar together and 
stir over the fire until nearly boiling ; remove from fire and when 
cold finish as directed. 

274. Coffee Ice Cream^ No. 1. — l quart cream, 1 pint milk, 
2 cups sugar, the yolks of 6 eggs and 2 ounces freshly ground 
coffee ; boil the milk, put in the coffee, cover and set it aside to cool ; 
next put the cream, yolks and sugar in a saucepan and stir over the 
fire till it nearly boils ; remove from fire, add the coffee and when 
cold strain through a fine sieve, finishing as directed. 



72 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

276. Coffee Ice Cream, No. 2. — H pound sugar, l quart 

Bweet cream, the yolks of 6-8 eggs and 5 ounces unroasted Mocha 
coffee ; roast the coffee in a pan over the fire and put it into half of 
the boiling cream ; cover and let it stand till cold ; put the remain- 
ing cream, yolks and sugar in a saucepan over the fire and stir till 
nearly boiling ; remove from the fire, add the coffee cream with the 
beans and let it stand till cold ; then strain through a sieve and 
freeze as directed. 2 ounces freshly ground coffee may be used 
instead of the beans. 

276. Ice Cream (Simple). — 1 quart sweet cream, 1 cup 
Hugar and 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla or lemon extract ; mix this 
well together, pour into a freezer and finish as directed. Or take 
equal })art8 of cream and milk ; to 1 quart of this add 1 /^ cups 
sugar and any flavoring that may be desired ; pour into the freezer 
and finish as directed. 

277. Plain Chocolate Ice Cream. — 2 pints cream, l pint 

milk, 2 cups sugar, H pound Baker^s grated chocolate and 2 tea- 
spoonfuls vanilla extract ; place a saucepan with the milk, chocolate 
and cream over the fire, add the sugar, stir and boil for a few min- 
utes ; remove from fire and when cold freeze as directed. 

278. Nut Ice Cream. — ^ pound blanched walnuts, the yolks 
of 6 eggs, 1 a cups sugar, 1 quart cream and 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla ; 
pound the walnuts fine; put the cream, yolks, sugar and vanilla in 
a saucepan and stir over the fire till nearly boiling ; remove from 
the fire, add the nuts and when cold strain it through a sieve ; freeze 
as directed. 

279. Fine Chocolate Ice Cream. — H pound grated choco- 
late, H pound sugar, 1 quart sweet cream, the yolks of 8 eggs and 
1 teaspoonful vanilla extract; place a saucepan with ^ pint cream 
and the chocolate over the fire and stir and boil till chocolate is 
dissolved ; stir the yolks, sugar, the remaining cream and vanilla 
together, add it slowly to the chocolate and continue stirring until 
neai'ly boiling ; remove from fire and finish as directed. 



ICE CREAMS. 73 

280. strawberry Ice Cream. — 1 pint ripe strawberries, 1 

pint rich, sweet cream, 1 pound sugar and 1 teaspoonful vanilla 
extract ; wash and drain the berries, mash them fine and mix with 
the sugar; cover and let stand till sugar is melted; press them 
through a sieve, mix the strawberry pulp with the cream and vanilla 
and yut the whole into a freezer and freeze as directed. Rasp- 
berry, peach and apricot ice creams are made the same way. 

281. How to Make Ice Cream Without a Freezer.— The 

process is so easy of manipulation and the expense incident thereto 
so small that most anybody can prepare it without any great 
trouble. All that is necessary for its preparation is a butter tub ojr 
a large pail, some ice, rock salt, a tin form with tube in the center 
and a cover that fits it closely. The ice is best broken to pieces by 
putting it into a coarse bag and pounding with a hatchet. By this 
process no ice is wasted and there is no muss. 

282. Yanilla Ice Cream^ No. 1. — Set a plain tin form with 

tube in the center into cracked ice and salt ; place a saucepan with 
1 quart milk, the yolks of 6 eggs, 1 cup sugar and 1 tablespoonful 
cornstarch over the fire and stir with an egg beater till nearly boil- 
ing ; remove from the fire, set saucepan in cold water and continue 
stirring till cold ; then add the whites of the 6 eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth, and 2 teaspoonf uls vanilla extract ; pour this into the form, put 
on the cover and paste a strip of buttered paper around its edge, to 
prevent the salt water from entering ; put a thick layer of cracked 
ice in the bottom of a butter tub and sprinkle over it a handful 
of rock salt ; set the form onto the ice and fill the space between it 
and tub with cracked ice and salt ; lay a thick layer of ice on top 
of form and sprinkle with salt ; cover the tub with a carpet or bag 
and let it stand in a cool place for 4 hours ; when ready to serve 
take the form out of the ice, remove the paper, dip the form into hot 
water, quickly wipe dry, turn the cream onto a dish and serve. 

283. Yanilla Ice Cream^ No. 2. — Place a deep kettle into 

cracked ice and put into it 1 quart rich, sweet cream ; beat this with 
an Ggg beater until thick and add 1 cup powdered sugar and 2 tea- 



74 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

spoonfuls vanilla extract ; put the cream into a tin form with a tube 
in the center, cover tightly, paste a strip of buttered paper around 
the edge of cover and finish the same as in foregoing recipe. Note. — 
For chocolate cream dissolve ii pound grated chocolate in H cup 
water, let it boil for a few minutes and when cold stir into the 
whipped cream prepared as above. Preserved peaches cut 
into small pieces or preserved pineapples cut into dice and 
mixed with the whipped cream is very nice. 1 dozen mac- 
aroons pounded fine and mixed with the whipped cream is also 
excellent. Pumpernickel cut in slices, dried in an oven and rolled 
fine may also be used. Candied fruit cut into pieces and fresh or 
preserved strawberries, as also cherries, apricots and oranges, can 
be used in the same way. For a small family 1 pint of cream will 
be sufficient. 

284. Fruit Ice Cream. — Stir l quart cream with the yolks of 
6 eggs and 1 H cups sugar over the fire till it nearly boils ; remove 
from fire and when cold put the cream into the freezer and work till 
half frozen ; then add any kind of fruit — either fresh strawberries or 
preserved pineapple cut into dice, ripe peaches cut into quarters, * 
preserved pitted cherries or apricots ; then finish as directed. The 
fruit may also be stirred into Custard Ice Cream in the same manner. 

286. Fruit Ice.^The principal point in making fruit ice is to 
use the exact quantity of sugar. If the mixture contains too much 
sugar it will not freeze ; if too little sugar the ice will be hard and 
dry. The better way is to try a little of it before putting the whole 
mixture into a freezer. If hard and dry add some thick sugar syrup ; 
if it does not freeze at all add some cold water or a very thin syrup 
of sugar. 

286. Cold Sugar Syrup for Fruit Ice.— Dissolve 1 pound 

sugar in 1 pint cold water and use as directed in following recipe. 
This is the ordinary syrup of 32 degrees used for fruit ice. If a 
thicker syrup is wanted dissolve 1 pound sugar in % pint water. 

287. Strawberry Ice. — Wash and drain 1 quart ripe straw- 
berries and press them through a sieve ; mix the pulp with 1 pint 



ICE CREAMS. 75 

Bugar syrup, as in No. 286, and the juice of 2 lemons ; press it through 
a fine hair sieve, put it into a freezer and freeze as directed. 

288. Pineapple Ice. — Choose a large, ripe pineapple, pare 
and grate it, or cut into pieces, and chop fine ; put the pulp into a 
porcelain dish and pour over it }4 pint sugar syrup ; cover and let 
it stand 1 hour; then add another % pint sugar syrup and the juice 
of 1 lemon ; press it through a sieve and put in a freezer to freeze. 

289. Tuttl Fruttl Ice. — Pound K pound blanched sweet . 
almonds and 12 bitter ones with a little cold water very fine ; pour 
over 1 pint water and let them stand for }^ hour ; then press them 
through a hair sieve ; mix this almond milk with 2 pints sugar 
syrup and 1 teaspoonf ul vanillu ; put this into a freezer and freeze ; 
when frozen take the paddle of the freezer out and put in different 
kinds of fruit cut into small dice — either fresh or preserved peaches, 
pineapples, pluins, cherries or apricots. 

290. Peach Ice. — ^Pare and cut 12 large, ripe peaches into 
pieces, press them through a sieve, mix with a little over 1 pint 
sugar syrup and freeze. Ices from egg plums and apricots are made 
in the same way. 

291. Melon Ice. — Choose a nice, ripe musk melon, cut it in 
half, remove the seeds and green portion and press the soft part 
through a sieve; mix it with an equal quantity of sugar syrup, a little 
vanilla extract, the juice of 1 lemon, a little orange blossom water 
and freeze as directed. 

292. Orange Ice. — Mix l quart sugar syrup with the juice of 
10 oranges, put in the thin peel of 2 oranges and let it stand for 6 
minutes ; remove the peel, pour the syrup through a sieve and freeze 
as directed. 

293. Lemon Ice. — Mix the juice of 5 lemons with 1 quart 
sugar syrup and freeze. 

294* Sorbet is served in Europe at balls and suppers. 

295. Champagne Sorbet. — Dissolve 1 pound sugar in l}i 
pints cold water, add the juice of 2 lemons and 6 oranges and a 



76 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

little of the peel of each and let it stand 10 minutes ; remove the 
peel, add % bottle champagne, put it into a freezer and work for 
yi hour ; 10 minutes before serving add % bottle champagne, work 
it for a few minutes longer and then serve in glasses. Sorbet should 
not freeze hard ; it should be a creamy liquid and ice cold. 

296. Pineapple Sorbet. — l quart pineapple syrup, the juice 
of 3 oranges and 1 lemon ; mix all together, strain and put into a 
freezer, work it for 14 hour and add by degrees during the freezing 
process ^ bottle champagne ; finish the same as Champagne Sorbet. 
Sorbets of oranges, strawberries, peaches, cherries and apricot syrup 
are made in a similar manner. 

• 

297. Strawberry Sherbet. — Press l quart ripe strawberries 

through a sieve, add %, pound sugar dissolved in 3 pints cold water, 
add the juice of 1 lemon and 2 teaspoonfuls orange flower water, 
cover and let stand for 2 hours ; then strain through a fine sieve and 
set on ice for 1 or 2 hours ; serve ice cold in small glasses. 

296. Orange Granite. — Mix 1 pint orange juice with 3 pints 
sugar syrup, as in No. 286, the juice of 2 lemons and the peel of 1 ; 
let it stand a few minutes then strain through a sieve; pour the 
mixture into a freezer, coyer and turn for 5 minutes; then take 
off the cover, cut the frozen part loose from the sides of freezer, 
turn for a few minutes longer and serve. Granite must not be frozen 
hard ; it should have little lumps all through it. Granites of straw- 
berries, pineapples, raspberries, currants, peaches, apricots or 
cherries are made in a similar way. In granite of currants omit the 
lemon juice. 

299. Spongada aux peches.— Pare and cut into pieces some 
ripe peaches, press them through a sieve and take for 1 pint peach 
pulp 1 pint sugar syrup, as in No. 280, 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla ex- 
tract, 1^ gills white of egg not beaten and 10 bitter almonds 
pounded to a paste with a little water ; mix all well together and 
strain twice through a sieve ; pour this into a freezer, cover and turn 
for 5 minutes ; take off the cover, cut the frozen part loose from the 
sides of freezer, cover and turn again ; repeat the operation of cut- 



ICE CREAMS. 77 

ting from the sides every 5 minutes ; as soon as the mixture begins 
to thicken remove the paddle of freezer, work the mixture up and 
down with a large spoon and press it towards the sides and bottom 
of freezer ; as soon as the contents of freezer Lave increased to 
double their size add 2 tablespoonfuls maraschino and serve in 
glasses. 

300. Spongada au chocolat. — 1 pint sweet cream, % pound 
finely grated chocolate, H pound sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla ex- 
tract, l)ii gills white of egg and 1 large cup water; boil the choco- 
late in the water for 5 minutes ; when cold mix all the ingredients 
together and finish the same as in preceding recipe. 

301. Spongada au Caf6. — 1 pint cold sweet cream, % pint 
very strong coffee, Jie pint whites of eggs (not whipped) and 1 pound 
powdered sugar ; mix all together and finish the same as Sponga da 
aux PSches. 

302. Spongada an marasqnln. — 1 % gills white of eggs, 2 

pints rich, sweet cream, 1 % cups sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla ex- 
tract and 1 }i gills maraschino ; dissolve the sugar in the cream, add 
vanilla and the white of Qgg without having been beaten and 
finish the same as Sponga da aux Peches. The maraschino is to be 
added shortly before serving. 

303. Orgeat of Almond Milk. — 1 pound sweet and 12 bitter 
almonds are scalded in boiling water, freed from their brown skins 
and laid for 1 hour in cold water ; drain the almonds on a sieve and 
pound them fine with 1 pound sugar and a few spoonfuls water ; put 
the pounded nuts into a porcelain dish, pour over them 4 quarts 
cold water, add 2 teaspoonfuls vantUa extract and strain through a 
napkin. The napkin should be well washed in cold water and 
wrung out previous to being used. Put this almond milk into 
glass bottles and place them on ice before serving. 

304. Th6 Polonaise. — Place a porcelain-lined saucepan over 
the fire with 1 bottle Rhine wine, 2 bottles weiss beer, the rind of 
1 lemon, a piece of stick cinnamon, 2 whole eggs, the yolks of 6 



78 DESERTS AND SALADS. 

and sugar to taste ; beat the whole with an egg beater over the fire 
till nearly boiling ; instantly remove, continue beating for a few 
minutes longer and serve hot in cups. This is served at the end of 
a ball or party shortly before fhe guests go home. 

306. Iced Tea.-^Boil l quart milk with 4 tablespoonf uls sugar, 
add 1 a ounces tea, cover and set aside for 5 minutes ; then strain 
and when cold pour it into an ice form ; finish with whipped cream 
the same as Coffee Ice. 

306. Iced Coffee. — Boil l quart milk with 4 tablespoonfuls 
sugar, add 1 cup coarsely ground coffee, cover and let it stand for 
15 minutes; then strain and when cold put it into an ice form, cover 
and set into cracked ice with a little rock salt sprinkled between; 
let it stand for }4 hour ; then thoroughly stir it with a long-handled 
spoon and mix with 1 pint whipped cream ; serve in small cups. 

307. Bread Crumbs. — Take stale bread or pieces which are 
left from the table, put them in a long, shallow tin pan and place in 
a medium hot oven ; leave the door of oven open a little, so that the 
bread may dry slowly; when it is dry and has become a delicate 
brown color put the bread on a pastry board and roll it fine with a 
rolling pin ; sift the crumbs through a sieve, return those which re- 
main in it back on the board and roll and sift again ; continue in 
this way until all the crumbs have been rolled fine and sifted; put 
them into a jar or box until wanted. 

308. How to Prepare a Pudding Form. — Rub the inside 

of a form well with butter and thickly sprinkle it with fine bread 
crumbs; turn the form upside down, in order that the loose crumbs 
may fall out; the cover of the form must be treated the same way; 
fill form with the pudding mixture, put on the cover and tie it 
firmly with a cord ; set the form in a vessel of boiling water so that 
•J of it is immersed ; then cover the vessel and boil slowly till done ; 
add more water according as it diminishes through boiling. The 
form may be put in a large saucepan of boiling water and the latter 
covered with a deep dish or pan ; but care must be taken not to 



BOILBD AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 79 

have too much water in the Baucepan, otherwise it will get inside 
of the form. 



BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 

Half the quantity of any of the following recipes will be suf- 
ficient for a small family, but care must be taken in measurement 
to use only the exeunt half. 

309. Plum Pudding.— Take ^ pound finely minced suet, H 
pound stoned raisins, H pound well cleansed currants, j^ pound 
finely cut citron, 5 well beaten eggs, the grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 
grated nutmeg, 2 teaspoonfuls ground cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful 
cloves, 1 teaspoonful salt, 2 cups bread crumbs, }i cup soiir cream 
or milk, 1 cup syrup, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 K pounds sifted flour, 

1 teaspoonful baking soda dissolved in a little boiling water, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls cream of tartar mixed with the flour and 1 glass brandy ; 
mix all well together ; have ready a large pudding form, rub the in- 
side well with butter and sprinkle with bread crumbs ; fill the mix- 
ture into the form and boil 4 hours ; when done turn the pudding out 
onto a dish, pour brandy or rum over it, light and bring the pudding 
to table while burning ; serve with hard sauce made as follows : — Stir 

2 tablespoonfuls butter with 8 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar to a 
cream, add the yolks of 2 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls brandy, a little 
nutmeg and the beaten whites of 2 eggs ; suflicient for 20 persons. 
If any of the pudding be left put in a stone jar and it will keep 
for a long time. When wanted cut ofl? a piece sufficient for dinner, 
put it in a colander over a vessel of boiling water, cover with a 
plate, steam for H hour and serve. The quantities cited in this 
recipe will make 1 large pudding or 2 medium sized ones. 

310. English Plnm Pndding. — 1 }4 pounds Muscatel raisins, 
IX pounds currants, 1 pound Sultana raisins, 2 pounds sugar, 2 
pounds bread crumbs, 16 eggs, 2 pounds finely chopped suet, 6 
ounces finely cut citron, the grated rind of 2 lemons, 1 ounce 



80 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

ground nutmeg, 1 ounce cinnamon, H ounce ground bitter almonds 
and j^ pint brandy ; stone and cut up the raisins, but do not chop 
them ; wash and dry the currants ; mix all the dry ingredients to- 
gether and moisten with the eggs, which should be well beaten ; stir 
in the brandy and when all is well mixed butter and flour a strong 
pudding cloth ; put in the mixture, tie up cloth very tightly, put 
into a large vessel of boiling water and boil from 6 to 8 hours ; 
serve with brandy sauce. This quantity may be divided and boiled 
in buttered moulds. For small families this is the most desirable 
way, as the above ingredients will be found sufficient to make a 
pudding for 25 persons. This pudding is excellent, but any one 
troubled with dyspepsia had better not eat it. 

311. Biscuit Pudding. — 2 cups milk, 1 cup butter, 2 cups 
flour, 1 cup sugar, 10 eggs, 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract and the 
grated rind and juice of 1 lemon ; put the milk with ^ of the butter 
over the Are ; as soon as it boils stir in the sifted flour and keep on 
stirring until the contents of saucepan form into a smooth paste and 
loosen from bottom of saucepan ; then transfer it to a dish and set 
aside to cool ; stir the remaining butter to a cream and add alter- 
nately the yolks of eggs, the sugar and the paste ; thoroughly stir 
this and add the lemon, vanilla and the 10 whites beaten to a 
stiff froth ; fill into a well buttered and floured form, boil 2 hours 
and serve with wine cream sauce. Note. — ^This pudding should 
be served as soon as taken from the form. The above ingredients 
will make a pudding sufficient for 10 persons. 

312. Cottage Pudding (baked). — ^TakelJiB cups milk, 3 cups 
prepared flour, }>i cup sugar, M cup butter, 3 eggs and the grated rind 
of 1 lemon ; stir butter and sugar to a cream, add by degrees the 
eggs and lemon and lastly, alternately, the flour and milk ; butter a 
long tin pan, sprinkle with bread crumbs, pour in the mixture and 
bake }i hour ; serve with wine or nutmeg sauce ; in serving cut the 
pudding into squares ; sufficient for 10 persons. 

313. Cottage Pudding (boiled).— Prepare a batter the same 
as in foregoing recipe, butter a pudding form, sprinkle with bread 



BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 81 

cnimbs and pour in the mixture; the form should be about % full; 
boil 2 hours and serve with following sauce : — Stir ^ cup butter 
with 1 yi cups powdered sugar to a cream, add the yolk of 1 egg^ 
aome pitted or preserved cherries and 1 tablespoonf ul brandy ; or 
add bruised strawberries, blackberries or peaches cut into small 
pieces. 

314. Cottage Apple Padding. — Prepare a batter as for 
Cottage Pudding (baked) and add 3 cups finely cut apples; in other 
respects treat the same as foregoing recipe and serve with lemon sauce. 

316. Batter Fruit Pudding. — K pound butter, 4 table- 
spoonfuls sugar, 4 eggs, 2 cups milk, 4 cups prepared flour, 1 cup 
seedless raisins and currants, % cup finely cut citron, the grated 
rind of 1 lemon and a little nutmeg ; stir butter and sugar to a 
cream and add the eggs by degrees ; then add alternately the sifted 
flour and milk, next the fruit, lemon and nutmeg ; butter a pudding 
form, sprinkle with bread crumbs, put in the mixture and boil 2 
hours; serve with hard, brandy or punch sauce. Note. — The fruit 
should be dusted with flour before adding it to the batter ; sufficient 
for 10 persons. 

316. Prince Regent Pudding. — After removing the crust off 
a 5 cent loaf of stale bread grate on a grater and pour 1 pint milk 
over it ; then stir 2 tablespoonf uls butter with 4 tablespoonf uls sugar 
to a cream, add the yolks of 7 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls finely cut 
citron, }i pound well cleansed seedless raisins, the bread and the 
beaten whites of the eggs ; fill this into a pudding form which has 
been well buttered and sprinkled with bread crumbs, close tightly 
and boil 2 hours ; serve with sherry wine, cream or brandy sauce. 

317. Layer Pudding (German style). — Cut a 5 cent 

Vienna loaf of bread (after the crust has been removed) into thin 

slices ; butter these on both sides, dip each slice into milk, lay them 

on top of one another and set aside ; mix together ii cup stoned 

raisins, 3 tablespoonfuls well cleansed currants, 2 tablespoonfuls 

finely cut citron and % teaspoonf ul cinnamon ; beat 8 eggs to a 

froth and add, stirring constantly, 1 pint milk; next butter a 




82 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

pudding form and sprinkle thickly, with breadcrumbs; put in a 
layer of the slices of bread, sprinkle over them some of the fruit 
mixture and 2 tablespoonfuls sugar; then put in another layer of 
bread, fruit and sugar; continue until all is used; then pour over it 
the milk and eggs, cover the form closely and boil 1 H hours ; serve 
with hard or cherry sauce ; sufficient for 12 persons. 

318. Portugal Pudding. — Grate the crust from a small loaf 
of bread and soak the latter in milk ; when soft press it out and put 
in a saucepan with 1 tablespoonful butter and 1 tablespoonful 
clarified dripping ; stir for 5 minutes over the fire, transfer it to a 
dish and as soon as cold mix with the yolks of 6 eggs, 5 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, a pound stoned raisins, H pound well washed currants, 
the grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, 2 tablespoonfuls finely cut 
citron, H cup Cognac or rum and lastly the beaten whites of the 
eggs ; butter a pudding form, sprinkle with fine bread crumbs, fill 
in the mixture, close tightly and boil 2 hours ; serve with hard or 
wine sauce ; sufficient for 10 persons. 

319. IpsUanti Pudding. — Mix 1 cup bread crumbs with 1 cup 
sweet cream and let it stand H hour ; stir H pound butter with 6 
tablespoonfuls sugar to a cream and add by degrees the yolks of 8 
eggs ; after this is well blended together add by degrees the bread, 
the grated rind of 1 lemon, 6 ounces finely cut citron, 4 tablespoonfuls 
bread crumbs fried in butter, 1 teaspoonful ground cinnamon and 
if handy 2 tablespoonful? finely cut preserved ginger; beat the 
whites of the 8 eggs to a stiff froth, mix all well together, .fill the 
mixture into a pudding form which has been well buttered and 
sprinkled with bread crumbs, boil 2 hours and serve with wine or 
cherry sauce. 

320. Fine Cherry Pudding (of fresh f^uit^ for a family 

of 6). — K pound finely chopped suet, K pound flour, 2 eggs, 2 
tablespoonfuls sugar, H pint milk or water, 1 H teaspoonf uls bak- 
ing powder sifted with the flour and a little salt ; mix all the ingre- 
dients together; add H pound cherries (minus the pits) to the 
batter and fill the mixture into a pudding form which has been well 



BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 83 

buttered and sprinkled with bread crumbs ; boil the padding 2 honrs 
and serve with the following sauce : — Stir 2 tablespoonf uls butter 
with 8 of powdered sugar to a cream, add the yolks of 2 eggs, 2 
tablespoonf uls Cognac, rum or sherry wine and lastly the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a stiff froth and }i cup stoned cherries. 2 table- 
spoonfuls of lard, butter or clarified drippings may be substituted 
for suet, and instead of cherries any other kind of fruit may be used. 

321. Cherry Pudding (of preseryed Cherries). — 3i pound 

finely chopped suet, 2 cups flour, l}i teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
2 tablespoonf uls sugar, yi teaspoonf ul salt, 2 eggs and 1 cup milk 
or water ; sift flour, sugar, salt and powder into a bowl and mix them 
with the finely chopped suet ; make a hole in center, put in the yolks 
of the 2 eggs, gradually add the milk and mix the whole into a 
smooth batter ; lastly add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth ; put a can of preserved cherries in a colander or sieve, drain 
off all the liquor and stir 1 cup of the cherries into the batter; butter 
well with butter or lard a pudding form and dust it with finely 
sifted bread crumbs ; fill in the mixture, put on the cover and tie it 
tightly with a string ; place the form in a large saucepan of boiling 
water (the form should not be immersed in the water more than half its 
depth), cover the saucepan with a deep dish or pan, so that no steam 
can escape, and boil 2 hours ; according as the water boils away add 
more boiling water ; when done turn the pudding onto a round plate 
and serve with the following sauce : — ^Put 1 tablespoonful cornstarch 
in a saucepan and mix it with a little cold water ; add 1 cup boiling 
water, stirring constantly, and let it boil for 2 minutes; then remove 
it from fire, add 1 cup cherry syrup, 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla, a little 
more sugar, 1 glass sherry wine and lastly 2 tablespoonfuls pre- 
served cherries. 1 tablespoonful lard or butter may be used instead 
of suet. This pudding can be made of all kinds of preserved fruit; 
sufficient for a family of 6 persons. 

322. Cherry Batter Pudding.— Stir % cup butter with 8 

tablespoonfuls sugar to a cream, add by degrees 4 eggs and alter- 
nately 4 cups Hecker's prepared flour and 2 cups milk; then add 
1 quart cherries; butter a pudding form^ sprinkle with bread 



84 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

cmmbs, put in the mixture, cover the form, set in a kettle of boil- 
ing water, so that the form is half immersed, and boil 2 hours; serve 
with cherry, hard or wine sauce ; or stir one cup pitted cherries 
into the hard sauce. Note. — If fresh cherries are not available 
the California canned cherries may be used, and will be found 
excellent. If canned fruit is used drain off the juice and 
only put the cherries into the batter, using the liquor either for 
the sauce or to make a form of jelly (see Jelly). California pre- 
served peaches and apricots also make very fine puddings. The 
above recipe is sufficient for 12 persons. 

323. Plain Suet Pudding. — H pound finely chopped suet, 4 

cups sifted flour mixed with 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, H cup sugar, 4 eggs and 1 pint milk ; beat up the 
eggs and add the salt and milk ; when this is well beaten together 
add the flour with the powder and sugar, mix the suet with a little 
flour and stir it into the batter ; butter a pudding dish, sprinkle with 
bread crumbs, pour in the mixture, put on the cover, set the form 
in a kettle of boiling water, so that the water covers half of the 
form, and boil 2 hours ; serve with strawberry sauce made as fol- 
lows : — Stir 2 tablespoonf uls butter with 1 cup powdered sugar to a 
cream ; wash and mash finely 1 cup strawberries and mix them with 
the sauce ; stir a handful of whole berries into it, put the sauce into 
a glass dish, smooth it with a knife and set some whole strawberries 
all around the top. Pitless cherries, cut up peaches, pitless plums 
or blackberries may be substituted for strawberries. The above 
quantities will make a pudding sufficient for 12 persons. 

324.— Suet Padding (with Apples).— Dust 3 cups finely 

chopped apples with flour and stir them into the plain suet pudding 
mixture ; otherwise treat the same as Plain Suet Pudding and serve 
with hard or sherry wine sauce. 

326. Blackberry Pudding is m&de in the same manner as 
Plain Suet Pudding, except that 1 quart well washed and floured 
blackberries are stirred into the batter; serve with hard sauce, into 
which 1 cup bruised blackberries may be stirred. Huckleberry 
pudding is made the same way. 



BOILED AND BAK£D PUDDINGS. 85 

326. Cherry Suet Padding. — Add to the plain suet pudding 
mixture 1 pound stoned cherries (which should be dusted with flour 
before adding) and finish the same as Apple Suet Pudding ; serve 
with following sauce : — Take 1 pound cherries and pound half of 

. them fine in a mortar ; place the whole cherries with the pounded 
ones in a saucepan over the fire, add 1 cup water and boil till teur 
der; then strain them through a sieve, return the liquor to saucepan, 
sweeten to taste, add 2 teaspoonf uls cornstarch dissolved in a little 
cold water, a piece of cinnamon and boil a few minutes ; then add 
H pint claret and serve ; or stir into the hard sauce 1 cup pitted 
cherries. Both of these sauces are excellent with cheny pudding. 

327. Suet Pudding (witll Nuts). — Stir into the plain suet 
pudding mixture 1 cup chopped almonds, walnuts or any kind of 
nuts ; boil in the form the same as Plain Suet Pudding and serve 
with nut sauce, which is made as follows : — Stir H cup butter with 
1 M cups powdered sugar to a cream and add the yolks of 2 eggs 
and 1 cup chopped nuts. 

328. Suet Pudding (witli Baisins).— Stir into the plain 
suet mixture 1 H cups stoned raisins broken into pieces, boil the 
same as Plain Suet Pudding and serve with hard sauce flavored with 
rum and mixed with H cup blanched almonds or walnuts broken 
into pieces. 

329. Suet Fruit Pudding. — 1 cup finely chopped suet, 1 cup 
milk, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup seedless raisins, 1 cup currants, 1 tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, H teaspoonf ul cloves, H nutmeg, 14 teaspoon- 
ful salt, 4 eggs, 2 cups bread crumps and 2 cups sifted prepared 
flour; mix all the ingredients together, fill the mixture into a well 
buttered pudding form, boil 2 H hours and serve with the following 
sauce : — Boil 1 H cups water, add 1 tablespoonf ul flour wet with H 
cup cold water and boil for a few minutes ; then add 1 tablespoon- 
ful butter, a little nutmeg, the juice of 1 lemon and sweeten to 
taste. 

330. Marrow Pudding. — M pound finely chopped beef mar- 
row, H pound finely chopped suet, 5 eggs, 2 cups bread crumbs, H 



86 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

cnp milky H poand prepared flour, H cnp mm, H cnp sugar, }i 
pound raisins, the same of well washed currants, 2 ounces finely cut 
citron, the grated rind of 1 lemon, H grated nutmeg and 1 tea- 
spoonful salt ; mix all together with the yolks of 5 eggs and add 
lastly the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; put the mix- 
ture in a well buttered pudding form and boil 3 hours ; serve with 
hard or brandy sauce. This pudding may also be boiled in a cloth, 
but is much finer when done in a form ; sufficient for 10 persons. 

331. Pig Padding. — H pound finely chopped suet, 4 eggs, 1 
pint milk, H pound figs cut into pieces, 1 pound flour and 3 tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder ; mix flour and baking powder together, 
add suet, eggs, 1 teaspoonf ul salt, the figs and mix it with the milk 
into a stiff batter ; add 2 tablespoonf uls sugar, fill the mixture into 
a well buttered pudding form and boil 2 hours ; serve with hard or 
wine sauce. 

332. Apple Pudding (baked).— Stir 2 tablespoonf uls butter 
to a cream, add H pound sugar, H cup chopped almonds, the yolks 
of 6 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls flour, the grated rind of 1 lemon and 1 
quart stewed apples ; mix all together, add the beaten whites of the 
eggs, fill the mixture into a buttered pudding dish and bake 1 hour ; 
when done sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve without sauce 
in the same dish in which it was baked. 

333. Pineapple Pudding (or 8onfl6e).— Boil 1 pint milk 

with 1 tablespoonful butter, while boiling sprinkle in 1 pint sifted 
flour and stir constantly until it has formed into a smooth dough 
and loosens itself from bottom of saucepan ; transfer it to a dish to 
cool ; stir 1 tablespoonful butter to a cream, add alternately the 
yolks of 4 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 cup milk, the grated rind 
of 1 lemon and the paste (1 spoonful at a time) ; lastly add the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; butter a deep pudding 
dish and sprinkle with bread crumbs ; put in a layer of the mixture 
and sprinkle over it a few bread crumbs ; put over this a layer of 
stewed or preserved pineapples (cut into small dice) and sprinkle 
over a few bread crumbs ; then a layer of the mixture and pineapples, 



BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 87 

until all is used ; let the last layer be the mixture ; bake 1 hour and 
serve with raspberry sauce ; sufficient for a family of 8. Preserved 
peaches, apricots or cherries may be used instead of pineapples. 

334. Almond Sponge Pudding. — ^Place a saucepan with 1 
pint milk and 1 tablespoonf ul butter over the fire ; as soon as it boils 
stir in H pound sifted flour; keep stirring until it forms into a 
smooth dough and loosens itself from bottom of saucepan; then 
transfer it to a dish and set aside to cool ; stir 1 tablespoonf ul butter 
to a cream and add alternately the yolks of 9 eggs, 9 tablespoonf uls 
sugar and the dough ; stir it with a potato masher until all the 
dough, the 9 yolks and 9 tablespoonf uls sugar have been used; add 
1 cup finely chopped or grated almonds, the juice and rind of 1 
lemon and lastly the beaten whites of 9 eggs ; fill this mixture into 
a pudding form which has been well buttered and sprinkled with 
bread crumbs or flour and boil 2 hours ; serve with the following 
sauce : — Place a saucepan over the fire with 1 pint white wine, 4 
tablespoonf uls sugar, a little lemon rind and 3 whole eggs ; beat this 
until just about to boil ; instantly remove from the fire and serve in 
a sauciere with the pudding. Note. — The pudding should be 
served immediately after being turned out. 

335. Nut Pudding. — Remove the shells from 1 pound wal- 
nuts, scald the nuts in boiling water and remove the fine brown 
skin ; pound them in a mortar with white of egg and mix them with 
3i cup milk ; boil H pint milk with H tablespoonf ul butter and 
while boiling add slowly 1 cup sifted flour ; stir until it forms into 
a smooth paste and loosens itself from bottom of saucepan ; put the 
paste in a dish, mix it with the pounded nuts and set aside to cool ; 
stir 1 M tablespoonf uls butter to a cream and add by degrees the 
yolks of 8 eggs, 4 tablespoonf uls sugar and (by spoonfuls) the paste ; 
when all is well mixed add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth ; butter a pudding dish, sprinkle with bread crumbs, fill in the 
mixture, set the dish into a pan of hot water and bake 1 hour in a 
medium hot oven ; when done turn it onto a dish and serve with 
fruit or nut sauce ; care should be taken not to use too small a dish, 
as the pudding raises very light; serve as soon as baked. 



88 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

336. Uncle Tom's Pudding. — Mix 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder with 3 cups sifted flour and a little salt, add 1 cup molasses, 

1 cup finely chopped suet, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 teaspoonful 
ground ginger, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, Ji teaspoonful cloves, H 
grated nutmeg, 1 cup buttermilk and 3 eggs ; butter a pudding 
form, sprinkle with bread crumbs, fill in the mixture and boil 2 
hours ; serve with lemon or hard sauce. 

337. Plain German Flour Pudding. — Sift 4 cups flour, add 

^ teaspoonful salt, 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, the grated rind of 1 
lemon, 1 cup seedless raisins, 1 yeast cake dissolved in H cup warm 
milk, 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, IH cups warm milk and 2 
eggs ; mix all together into a stiff batter ; butter a pudding form, 
sprinkle with bread crumbs, fill in the mixture and set in a warm 
place till it rises to double its height ; then cover the form and boil 

2 hours ; serve with roast meat and stewed fruit or with sauce. 

338. The Queen of Puddings (with Strawberries).—! 

cup sugar, 2 cups fine bread crumbs, 6 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls but* 
ter, the grated rind of 1 lemon, 4 cups milk and 1 pint strawberries ; 
soak the bread crumbs in the milk for M hour; stir butter and 
sugar to a cream, add by degrees the yolks of the eggs and next 
the bread crumbs (by spoonfuls), stirring constantly; lastly add tbe 
whites of 3 eggs, beaten to a stijff froth, and the lemon ; fill this 
into a buttered pudding dish, which should be a large one and but 
f full ; bake until done ; draw to the front of oven, put a layer of 
fresh strawberries over it, sprinkle with sugar and cover with a 
meringue made of the 3 remaining whites of eggs and 1 tablespoon- 
f ul powdered sugar ; put it back in the oven and bake for a few 
minutes, until the meringue begins to color ; serve cold with cream 
or vanilla sauce. Any kind of fruit may be used instead of straw- 
berries, as may also jelly or marmalade. 

339. Indian Pudding (boiled).— Bring 1 pint milk to a boil, 

stir into it 1 cup yellow Indian meal and boil 5 minutes, stirring 
constantly ; then take it from the fire and mix with 1 cup molasses, 
1 tablespoonful ground ginger, 1 cup chopped suet, H teaspoon- 



BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 89 

fnl salt and 2 eggs; when this is weD blended together fill it into a 
buttered pudding form and boil 3 hours ; serve with the following 
sauce : — ^Mix 2 teaspoonf uls cornstarch with a little cold water, add 
1 14 cups boiling water and boil a few minutes ; then add )i tea- 
spoonful salty 1 tablespoonful butter, the juice of 1 lemon, 1 cup 
sugar, 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla and some grated nutmeg. 

340. Economical Boiled Pudding.— 1 cup mUk, 1 cup 

stoned raisins, 1 cup fine chopped suet, }4 cup molasses, ^ cup 
brown sugar, 3 cups flour, IK teaspoonf uls baking powder, 
1 teaspoonful grated nutmeg, the same of cinnamon, K teaspoon- 
ful cloves. Mix all together and boil in a form 2 hours; serve 
with lemon or vanilla sauce. 

341. Graham Flour Pudding (also called Imitation 

Plum Pudding). — ^Two large slices of bread, K cup milk, M 
pound butter, 1 cup stoned raisins, 1 cup currants, K cup finely 
sliced citron, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup graham flour, 1 cup sugar, 1 
glass brandy and 1 teaspoonful baking soda dissolved in a little hot 
water; mixed with the molasses, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful allspice, % 
grated nutmeg and M teaspoonful salt ; break the bread into small 
pieces and put it with the milk into a bowl ; stir butter and sugar 
to a cream ; add the eggs, one at a time, stirring a few minutes be- 
tween each addition; next add the spice; then, alternately, the 
bread, molasses and flour; when this is well mixed dust the fruit 
with flour and stir it into the mixture ; butter a pudding form and 
dust with fine bread crumbs ; put in the mixture, close the form and 
set it in a kettle of boiling water (only enough water to half cover 
the form should be used) ; cover the kettle and boil 3 hours ; serve 
with brandy or hard sauce. Half of the above quantities will make 
a pudding sufficient for a family of 6 persons. 

342. Madeira Pudding. — Pare the crust off a 6 cent loaf of 
bread ; cut the bread into slices and dip each slice in Madeira wine ; 
mix 5 tablespoonfuls sugar with K pound finely cut preserved 
orange peel, a little nutmeg and cinnamon; have ready a well 
buttered pudding form, which sprinkle with fine bread 



90 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

crumbs ; first put in a layer of bread and sprinkle over it some 
of the mixed sugar; then a layer of currant jelly; continue in 
this fashion until all is used up ; lay 1 tablespoonf ul butter in small 
pieces on top ; beat up 6 eggs with 1 pint cream or milk and pour it 
into the form over the bread ; close the form and boil 1 H hours ; 
serve with the following sauce : — Put 1 pint Madeira wine in a 
saucepan with 3 or 4 eggs, the peel of 1 lemon, a piece of cinnamon 
and H cup sugar; place over the fire and stir with an egg beater 
until nearly boiling ; instantly remove and serve with the pudding. 
If the sauce is allowed to boil it will be spoiled. 

843. Almond Pudding. — Stir 2 tablespoonfuls butter to a 
cream, add 5 tablespoonfuls sugar, the yolks of 6 eggs, 1 cup chop- 
ped almonds, the grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, 2 cups fine bread 
crumbs and lastly the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; 
butter a pudding form, sprinkle with bread crumbs, cover tightly 
and boil 1 H hours ; serve with wine or cream sauce. 

844. Boiled Bread Pudding.— Stir l tablespoonful butter to 
a cream with 2 tablespoonfuls sugar and add by degrees the yolks of 
4 eggs, the grated rind of H lemon, 2 cups bread crumbs, H cup 
milk, 2 ounces seedless raisins, the same quantity of well cleansed 
currants and 2 tablespoonfuls finely chopped almonds; add lastly 
the beaten whites of the eggs ; butter a form, sprinkle with bread 
crumbs, fill it with the mixture, put on the cover and boil IH 
hours; serve with sherry wine or cream sauce. 

846. Zwieback Puddingy No. 1.— Butter a form and sprinkle 
with bread crumbs ; take H pound round zwieback, H pound seedless 
raisins, the same quantity of well cleansed currants and chopped 
almonds ; put a layer of zwieback into the form and sprinkle some 
of the fruit over it ; continue in this way until all is used ; then beat 
up 6 eggs with 6 tablespoonfuls sugar and add 2H cups milk; pour 
this over the swieback in the form, cover tightly and let it stand 1 
hour; then boil 2 hours; serve with fruit, wine or hard sauce; suffi* 
cient for 10 persons. 



BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 91 

346. Cabinet Pudding.— Stir % cup butter with 4 table- 
spoonfuls sugar to a cream and add by degrees the yolks of 8 eggs 
and the grated rind and juice of 1 lemon ; cut the crust off a 5 cent 
loaf of bread, grate the white part and add it to the above mixture 
with 1 % cups milk, 3i cup finely cut citron and the whites of the 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; in the meantime pour over H. pound 
vanilla wafers and % pound macaroons, some Madeira or sherry 
wine and sprinkle with finely sifted bread crumbs ; put a layer of 
the bread mixture, an inch in thickness, into the form and cover it 
with a layer of macaroons and wafers ; then bread again ; continue 
in this way until all is used, the last layer being the bread mixture ; 
close the form tightly and boil 2 hours ; serve with wine cream or 
hard sauce; sufficient for 12 persons. 

347. Lemon Pudding (baked). — Stir l cup butter to a cream 
and add by degrees the yolks of 10 eggs, 2 whole eggs, the grated 
rind and juice of 3 lemons, 1 cup finely chopped almonds, 1 cup 
sugar and lastly the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; line 
a pudding dish with rich pie crust, put in the mixture and bake 1 
hour. Or take H pound stale sponge cake, broken into small 
pieces, the juice of 4 lemons and the grated rind of % 1% cups 
'sugar, 1 pint cream, a little salt and nutmeg, the yolks of 6 eggs 
and the beaten whites of 3 ; put this into a pudding dish lined with 
pie crust and bake H hour. 

348. Zwieback Puddingy No. 2. — Soak yi pound zwieback 

in 1 pint milk ; stir H pound butter with 3 tablespoonf uls sugar to 
a cream; add by degrees the yojks of 6 eggs, )i teaspoonful cinna- 
mon and 1 cup finely chopped almonds ; add lastly the zwieback and 
the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; put the mixture into 
a well buttered pudding form and boil 1 hour; serve with wine 
sauce. 

349. Pumpernickel Pudding. — Cut some stale pumpernickel 
into slices and dry them in the oven ; then lay on a board, roll fine 
and sift them ; take 1 cup pumpernickel crumbs, 4 eggs, 2 table- 
spoonfuls dripping or H cup finely chopped suet, 5 tablespoonfuls 



92 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

sugar, 1 teaspoonfnl cloves, the same quantity of cinnamon and the 
grated rind and juice of 1 lemon ; stir the yolks of eggs and sugar 
to a cream ; add by degrees the dripping, bread crumbs and other 
ingredients ; add lastly the beaten whites of the eggs ; fill this into a 
well buttered form and boil 1 H hours ; serve with lemon or brandy 
sauce ; sufficient for a family of 6 persons. This pudding is the 
equal of a fine plum pudding. 

360. Tienna Pudding. — Stir X pound butter with 1 cup 

sugar to a cream and add by degrees the yolks of 7 eggs, 2 whole 
eggs, the grated rind of H lemon and the juice of 2 ; set this in a 
vessel of boiling water and stir over the fire till it begins to thick- 
en ; then remove it, stir until cold and add the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth ; butter a pudding form and sprinkle it with 
fine zwieback crumbs ; fill in the mixture, put on the cover, set the 
form in a kettle of boiling water, cover closely and boil slowly for 
1 hour ; in serving turn the pudding onto a warm dish and send 
wine cream or fruit sauce to table with it. This pudding should 
be served immediately upon being turned out of the form. 

351. Chocolate Pudding. — Stir 2 ounces butter with 1 cup 
powdered sugar to a cream, add by degress the yolks of 9 eggs and 
stir for 20 minutes ; then add 2 ounces finely chopped almonds, the 
grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, }i pound grated chocolate and 6 
ounces rye bread which has been dried in the oven and rolled fine 
with a rolling pin ; add lastly a glass of Madeira wine or rum and 
the whites of the 9 eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; put the mixture 
into a well buttered form, boil 2 hours and serve with wine or punch 
sauc^. 

352. Apple Pudding (with Almonds). — ^Place a saucepan 

over the fire with 1 tablespoonf ul butter ; add 1 soup plate finely cut 
apples, 2 tablespoonfuls well cleansed currants, the same quantity 
of seedless raisins and finely cut citfon, H pound finely chopped 
almonds, the grated rind of H lemon or orange and ^ cup sugar ; 
stir this over the fire until the apples begin to get soft, add H cup 
raspberry or currant jelly and set aside to cool; beat up the yolks 



BOILED AND BAKED PTTDDINGS. 93 

of 7 eggs, add by degrees K ponnd finely rolled zwieback, the 
apples and lastly the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; fill 
this into a well buttered pudding dish and bake ^ hour in a me- 
dium hot oven ; when done turn the pudding onto a dish, dust with 
sugar and serve without sauce ; sufficient for 10 persons. It may 
also be served in the dish in which it is baked. 

353. Ntldel Pudding. — ^Prepare the nudels from the yolks of 
2 eggs and sufficient flour to make a stiff dough ; roll it out thin and 
cut into long strips about 1 H inches wide ; lay 4 strips on top of 
one another and cut them as fine as possible ; then drop them into 
boiling milk and boil 10 minutes ; drain on a sieve, return the nudels 
to the fire, add M tablespoonful butter, 3 macaroons pounded fine, 
1 tablespoonful currant or apple jelly and a glass of sherry wine ; 
shake this several times over the fire, spread the mixture on but- 
tered tins H inch in thickness and set in a cool place ; put 1 ounce 
finely chopped or pounded almonds in. H pint milk, let it stand H 
hour, add 1 whole egg^ the yolks of 6 and 3 tablespoonf uls sugar ; 
when well mixed strain through a sieve and cut the nudels with a 
cake cutter into rounds ; put them in rows over one another into a 
form which has been well buttered and sprinkled with. bread 
crumbs, sprinkle some pounded macaroons between, pour the cream 
over it and place the form in a vessel of hot water; set it on the 
stove to simmer gently for 1 hour ; when done carefully turn the 
pudding out onto a dish and serve with almond, cream or fruit 
sauce. These quantities are sufficient for a family of 8 persons. , 

354. Potato Pudding. — ^Boil 8 large potatoes with their skins 
in water until done ; take from the water and set them for a few 
minutes in the oven to dry ; then set them in a cool place ; when cold 
remove the skins and grate the potatoes on a grater ; use only that 
portion which falls behind the grater; this should make 1 quart of 
grated potatoes ; stir H pound butter with 1 cup sugar to a cream 
and add by degrees the yolks of 8 eggs, the grated rind of 1 lemon, 
H pound blanched almonds well pounded and 2 tablespoonf uls dry 
farina; when this is well mixed add the potatoes and lastly the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; butter a pudding dish, 



94 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

Bprinkle well with bread crumbs, put in the mixture and cover 
tightly ; set the form into a vessel of boiling water (use only enough 
water to half cover the form), cover the vessel closely and boil 
slowly for 2 hours; when done take the form from the water and 
set it for a few minutes in the oven ; then carefully turn the pud- 
ding onto a round plate and serve with the following sauce : — Stir 
2 tablespoonf uls butter with 1 cup powdered sugar to a cream and 
add the yolks of 2 eggs and 1 cup fresh strawberries (either stir 
them into the sauce whole or mash them). Fresh cherries freed of 
their pits or preserved cherries may be used in place of strawberries. 
The pudding may also be served with either wine, lemon or fruit 
sauce ; it should be served as soon as taken from the form. 



BREAD AND APPLE PUDDINGS. 

355. Plain Bread Puddingy No. 1. — Lay 3 slices of a 5- 

cent loaf of bread (minus the crust) in a pudding dish and pour over 
them 1 quart cold milk ; set the dish on the side of stove to heat 
gradually ; when hot stir 2 eggs with 2 H tablespoonf uls sugar to a 
cream and add a little cold milk or water and 1 teaspbonful essence 
of lemon ; stir this into the bread and milk ; put H tablespoonf ul 
butter in small bits on top, grate over some nutmeg, bake in oven 
from 20 to 30 minutes and serve hot or cold without sauce. 

356. Plain Bread Pudding (baked) ^ No. 2.— Put 3 slices 

of bread (minus the crust) into a pudding dish and pour over them 
1 quart boiling milk ; cover the dish and let it stand until cold ; then 
beat up the bread with a fork ; stir 3 eggs with 3 or 4 tablespoon- 
f uls sugar to a cream and mix it with the bread ; flavor with lemon ; 
put a few small pieces of butter with a little grated nutmeg on top 
and bake in the oven till thick ; serve with lemon or nutmeg sauce. 
H pound raisins or currants may be added if liked. 

367. Bird's Nest Pudding.— Peel 6 good sized greening 
apples, remove the cores with an apple corer without breaking the 



BREAD PUDDINGS. 95 

fruit, put them in a long, shallow tin pan, pour over 2 cups boiling 
water, cover with a pan of same size and let them boil on top of 
stove for 5 minutes; then drain off all the water and put 1 teaspoon- 
ful apple or currant jelly into each apple. For batter take 1 cup 
flour, 1 H teaspoonf uls baking powder, 1 cup milk, 2 eggs, H tea- 
spoonful salt, 1 tablespoonful lard, butter or clarified dripping and 
2 teaspoonf ul& sugar ; sift flour, powder, sugar and salt into a bowl ; 
put in the butter or lard and chop it fine in the flour ; make a hollow 
in center and put in the yolks of the 2 eggs ; then add the milk 
gradually and mix the whole into a smooth batter; add lastly the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; pour the batter over the 
apples and bake H hour in a medium hot oven ; serve as soon as 
done and send the following sauce to table with it : — Stir 1 table- 
spoonful butter with 4 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar to a white 
cream and add the yolk of 1 egg^ 1 tablespoonful rum or brandy 
and a little nutmeg ; lastly stir in the white of the egg, beaten to 
a stiff froth ; in serving give to each individual an apple on a small 
plate and a large spoonful of sauce on each apple; sufficient for a 
family of 6. This pudding has the advantages of being healthy 
and excellent, while not being expensive. 

358. Bread Pudding (boiled).— Soak ^ pound stale bread 
(minus the crust) in water ; when soft press it out either in a napkin 
or with the hands ; melt 2 tablespoonfuls butter or clarified drip- 
ping in a saucepan, add the bread and stir over the fire till it has 
formed into a compact mass and loosens itself from bottom of sauce- 
pan; transfer the bread to a dish; stir the yolks of 6 eggs with 4 
tablespoonfuls sugar to a cream and add them by degrees to the 
bread; add 2 cups well cleansed currants, H cup finely chopped 
almonds, the grated rind and juice of H lemon, a little nutmeg and 
H teaspoonf ul cinnamon ; add lastly the whites of 6 eggs, beaten to 
a stiff froth ; butter a pudding form and sprinkle with bread crumbs ; 
fill in the mixture, put on the cover, place the form in a vessel of 
boiling water, cover closely and boil 2 hours ; serve with lemon, 
fruit or hard sauce. 



96 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

359. Bread Fruit Pudding.— Pare off the crust from a 5- 
cent loaf of bread and cat the loaf into thin slices ; spread the slices 
on both sides with any kind of fruit marmalade ; butter a pudding 
form, sprinkle with bread crumbs and lay in the bread ; stir 8 eggs 
with H cup sugar and the grated rind of 1 lemon until they foam ; 
add by degrees 1 pint hot milk, stirring constantly; pour this over 
the bread, cover the form tightly and boil IM hours; serve with 
wine cream sauce. 

« 

360. Bread Sponge Pudding.— Boil l cup milk with i table- 
spoonful butter ; stir in while boiling 1 cup sifted flour and keep 
stirring until it has formed into a smooth paste and loosens itself 
from bottom of saucepan ; transfer the paste to a dish ; stir 1 table- 
spoonful butter to a cream and add, alternately, the yolks of 5 eggs, 
4 tablespoonf uls sugar, the paste, }i pound well cleansed currants, 
a little nutmeg and grated lemon peel ; pour % cup rum over 1 cup 
fine bread crumbs and add them to the above mixture with the 
beaten whites of the 5 eggs ; butter a pudding form, sprinkle with 
bread crumbs, fill in the mixture and boil in a tightly covered ves- 
sel of water for 2 hours ; serve with wine cream, fruit or hard sauce ; 
sufficient for 8 persons. 

361. HanOYerian Pudding. — Pare and quarter 6 large pippin 
or greening apples and cut them into fine slices ; put them in a 
saucepan with 1 tablespoonf ul butter, % cup sugar, 1 tablespoonful 
well cleansed currants, 1 tablespoonful seedless raisins, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls finely cut citron and the grated rind and juice of % lemon ; stir 
this over the fire till the apples begin to get soft ; add H cup rasp- 
berry or currant jelly and set aside to cool ; soak 3i pound bread 
(minus the crust) in water and press it out in a napkin ; then place 
it in a saucepan with 1 tablespoonful butter and stir over the fire 
until the bread loosens itself from bottom of saucepan ; stir 1 table- 
spoonful butter to a cream and add, alternately, the yolks of 5 eggs, 
2 tablespoonfuls sugar and the bread (by spoonfuls) ; add lastly the 
beaten whites of the eggs ; next butter a pudding dish and sprinkle 
with bread crumbs; put in a layer of bread mixture and over it a 



BREAD PUDDINGS. 97 

layer of apples; continue in this way until all is used; bake 40 min- 
utes ; serve with or without sauce. 

362. Huckleberry Pudding (German style).— Soak a 5- 

cent loaf of bread (minus the crust) in milk till soft ; press it out, 
put in a saucepan with 1 tablespoonf ul butter and stir over the fire 
to a smooth paste ; transfer it to a dish and set aside to cool ; stir 1 
tablespoonf ul butter to a cream and add (alternately) the yolks of 8 
eggs, 5 tablespoonfuls sugar and the bread (by spoonfuls) ; when 
this is well mixed add 1 pint huckleberries and lastly the whites of 
the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; fill this into a well buttered and 
floured pudding form, cover closely and boil in a kettle of water 2 
hours ; serve with hard or wine sauce. This pudding may be made 
of peaches, apples, cherries or blackberries ; sufidcient for 12 per- 
sons. For a small family % the above quantities will sufidce. 

363. Bye Bread Pudding.— Stir i tablespoonful butter to a 

cream and add by degrees % cup sugar and the yolks of 6 eggs ; stir 
this for M hour; then add K pound finely pounded almonds, >^ 
teaspoonful cloves, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, a little cardamon and 
nutmeg and ^ pound rye bread which has previously been cut into 
slices, dried in the oven and rolled fine with a rolling pin ; add lastly 
the grated rind of 1 lemon, a small glass of Cognac or rum and the 
whites of the 6 eggs,beaten to a stiff froth ; butter a pudding form, 
sprinkle with bread crumbs, fill in the mixture and cover and set 
the form in a kettle of boiling water ; the form should only be im- 
mersed in water half way ; boil 1 % hours, keeping the kettle closely 
covered; s: / ' \ I: randy, wine or hard sauce. 

364. Apple Pudding (German art). — Pare, core and cut 

into quarters 6 good sized tart apples, put them in a stewpan with 
a little water and boil till half done ; then carefully remove the ap- 
ples to a pudding dish, pour 3 tablespoonfuls raspberry syrup or 
jelly over them and set aside to cool ; place a saucepan over the fire 
with 1 pint milk and H tablespoonful butter ; as soon as it boils put 
in 1 cup sifted flour and stir until the mixture forms into a smooth 
paste and loosens itself from the bottom of saucepan ; transfer it to 
a dish ; stir 1 tablespoonful butter to a cream and add alternately 



98 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

the yolks of 5 eggs, 5 tablespoonfuls sugar and the paste, a spoon- 
ful at a time ; when this is well blended together add the grated rind 
of 1 lemon, H cup finely chopped almonds and lastly the beaten 
whites of 5 eggs ; pour this mixture over the apples and bake in a 
medium hot oven for H hour ; it may be served with wine, fruit or 
hard sauce or may be dusted with sugar and served without a sauce. 
Note. — ^When peaches, cherries, plums or berries are used they 
need not be cooked before baking. 

365. English Apple Pudding. — Butter a deep pudding dish 
and sprinkle with bread crumbs ; line the sides of dish with a rich 
pie crust and put a narrow strip around the bottom so as to leave the 
center of bottom uncovered ; next fill the dish with finely cut apples 
with some sugar sprinkled between them ; add a very little nutmeg, a 
pinch of cinnamon and a little butter in small pieces ; cover with the 
same crust and bake 1 hour ; when done turn the pudding out onto 
a dish and serve with hard sauce. (See Sauce.) 

366^ Apple Pudding (boiled). — 1 cup finely chopped suet, 3 
cups flour, 1 cup milk, 3 eggs, H cup sugar, 3 cups finely cut ap- 
ples, H teaspoonful salt^ a little grated lemon peel and 2 teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder; sift flour, salt and powder into a bowl and add 
grated lemon peel and suet ; next add the yolks of the eggs and mix 
the whole with the milk to a stiff batter ; then add the beaten whites 
of the eggs; dust the apples with flour and stir them into batter; 
butter a pudding form, sprinkle with bread crumbs, fill in the mix- 
ture, cover tightly and boil 2 hours; serve with hard sauce. 

Note. — ^The apples and dough may be put in -j.^ the form, 

putting first a layer of dough, then a layer of apples, then dough, 
and so on. This pudding may also be made of apricots, peaches, 

figs, plums or currants, citron or raisins. 

• 

367. Apple Bread Pudding (iHerman art). — Pare and cut 

into slices 8 large tart apples ; soak a 5 cent loaf of bread in cold 
water ; when soft press it out and put in a saucepan over the fire 
with 2 tablespoonfuls butter ; stir for 5 minutes and transfer it to a 
dish to cool; stir 4 tablespoonfuls sugar with the yolks of 4 eggs 



BREAD PUDDINGS. 99 

to a cream and add the bread, the sliced apples and lastly the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; butter a pudding form, sprinkle 
with bread crumbs, fill in the bread mixture, boil 2 hours and serve 
with hard sauce. 

368. Bread Pudding (with Apples).— Cut 3 slices of bread, 

yi inch in thickness, from a 9 cent loaf of bread and soak them in 
cold water for 10 minutes; press out and put them over the fire in a 
saucepan with 1 tablespoonful butter; stir for 5 minutes, or until it 
has formed into a compact mass ; transfer it to a dish ; when cold 
stir the yolks of 3 eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls sugar to a cream and 
add the bread; then add 2 cups finely chopped apples, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls fine bread crumbs and lastly the beaten whites of the eggs ; but- 
ter a form, sprinkle with bread crumbs, fill in the bread mixture, 
close tightly and boil for 2 hours ; serve with hard, fruit or wine 
sauce. 

369. Apple Bice Padding (German art). — Place a sauce- 
pan with a pound rice covered with cold water over the fire and 

boil 5 nunutes ; drain in colander, rinse off with cold water and re- 
turn rice to saucepan ; add 1 quart milk, }i teaspoonf ul salt and boil 
till tender ; pare and cut into slices 6 large tart apples and stew them 
in 2 tablespoonfuls butter till nearly done ; put them into a pudding 
form ; when rice is cold mix it with H pound sugar, the yolks of 6 
eggs and lastly the beaten whites of the eggs ; pour it over the ap- 
ples, bake in the oven and serve with the following sauce : — ^Put the 
apple peels and cores in a saucepan, cover with water and boil till 
tender ; strain through a jelly bag, return the liquor to saucepan, 
add the juice of 1 lemon and boil 5 minutes ; add 1 cup sugar and 
let it boil 5 minutes ; serve with the pudding. 

370. Apple Pudding & rallemande.— Pare and core 6 me- 
dium sized greening apples, put them in a long, shallow tin pan, 

add 2 cups boiling water, cover with another pan of same size and 
boil 5 minutes ; drain off the water and put them into a pudding 
dish of a size large enough to admit of the apples standing side by 
side. Prepare the pudding batter as follows : — ^Put 1 cup milk in a 



100 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

saucepan over the fire, add 1 tablespoonf al butter and when it boils 
add 1 cup sifted flour, stirring constantly; continue the stirring un- 
til the mixture has formed into a smooth paste and loosens itself; 
then take it off the fire and let cool ; in the meantime stir 1 table- 
spoonful butter to a cream and add 4 tablespoonfuls sugar and the 
yolks of 4 eggs, adding 1 yolk and 1 spoonful sugar at a time, stir- 
ring well ; then add a little of the paste and continue in this way 
until all the paste, yolks and sugar are well mixed ; add lastly the 
whites of the 4 eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; put 1 teaspoonf ul cur- 
rant jelly into each apple, pour the batter over the apples and bake 
}i hour; serve with hard sauce. 

371. Old-Fashloned Apple Pudding. — H pound finely chop- 
ped suet, 1 pound flour, 1 teaspoonf ul salt and 1 cup cold water; 
sift flour and salt into a bowl, add the suet and mix the whole with 
the water into a stiff paste ; roll it out on a floured board H inch in 
thickness, put in the center ^ dozen finely cut tart apples, sprinkle 
1 tablespoonf ul sugar and a little flour between them and add a 
pinch of nutmeg and 1 teaspoonf ul butter in small pieces; dip a 
large napkin in hot water, ring out and dust it with flour ; cover the 
apples with the paste, lay the pudding in center of cloth, fold the 
cloth together and tie it tightly; have a large kettle of water with 
H tablespoonf ul salt over the fire ; as soon as it boils put in the 
pudding, cover the kettle and boil 2 hours ; serve with hard, brandy 
or cherry wine sauce and if liquor is objected to serve with nutmeg 
sauce. The pudding should be served as soon as taken from the 
water. For a small family half these quantities will be suflScient. 

372. Roly-Poly. — l cup finely chopped suet, 2 cups prepared 
flour, 1 egg and K cup water ; mix this into a stiff dough, roll out 
^ of an inch in thickness, brush it over with beaten egg and sprinkle 
over 1 tablespoonf ul bread crumbs ; put on a layer of finely cut ap- 
ples, sprinkle over 1 spoonful sugar, roll the dough up like a music 
sheet, brush the outside all over with beaten eggs and sprinkle with 
fine bread crumbs ; dip a napkin into hot water, wring out dry and 
dust the inside with flour; put the pudding in center of cloth, fold 



S0UFL££S. 101 

the napkin around it, lap the ends over and fasten with a pin ; tie a 
string around it, drop into slightly salted boiling water and boil for 2 
hours ; serve with the following sauce : — Mix 1 tablespoonf ul corn- 
starch with H cup cold water and add 1 cup boiling water and 2 
tablespoonf uls butter ; boil 5 minutes, strain through a sieve, add 1 
cup sugar, a little lemon juice and 1 cup sheny wine ; or serve with 
hard sauce. 

373. Boly-Poly Tutti Frntti. — Prepare a dough the same 
as in foregoing recipe ; roll out i of an inch thick, brush over with 
beaten egg and sprinkle 1 tablespoonful bread or cracker crumbs 
over it ; pare, core and slice H dozen tart apples and put them with 
1 }i tablespoonf uls butter and 3 tablespoonf uls sugar in a saucepan ; 
add H cup currants, the same quantity seedless raisins and finely 
cut citron ; cover saucepan and stew over the fire till apples begin 
to soften ; pour them into a dish and when cold spread the apples 
over the dough ; lay 2 tablespoonf uls currant or apple jelly in small 
pieces all over the apples ; then finish the same as Roly-Poly ; serve 
with the following sauce : — Stir 2 tablespoonf uls butter with 1 cup 
powdered sugar to a cream and add by degrees 2 whole eggs, a 
little nutmeg and 4 tablespoonf uls Jamaica rum or brandy; or serve 
with lemon or nutmeg sauce. 

SOUPLfiS, PANCAKES, OMELETS AND 

FRITTERS. 

374. Plain 8oufl6. — Boil 1 ^ cups milk with H tablespoon- 
ful butter and add, stirring constantly, IH cups sifted flour; stir 
till it has formed into a smooth paste and loosens itself from bottom 
of saucepan ; transfer the paste to a dish and set aside to cool ; stir 
1 tablespoonful butter to a cream and add alternately the yolks of 
6 eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls sugar, the grated rind of 1 lemon, the 
paste and lastly the beaten whites of the eggs ; butter a pudding 
dish, sprinkle with bread crumbs and fill it H full of fruit — either 
peaches, pears pared and cut into quarters, cherries without the 
pits, currants, raspberries or finely cut apples; blackberries or 



102 DESSERTS AND gALADS. 

huckleberries may also be used ; sprinkle some zwieback crumbs be- 
tween the fruit, add sufficient sugar to sweeten, pour over the 
soufl^e mixture and bake 1 hour. All kinds of stewed or preserved 
fruits may be used the same way; serve with claret or fruit sauce. 

376. Almond Soufl^. — Boil 1 cup milk with H tablespoon- 
f ul butter ; mix 1 cup rice flour with 1 cup cold milk ; stir it into 
the boiling milk ; continue boiling, stirring constantly, until it has 
formed into a smooth paste and loosens itself from bottom of sauce- 
pan ; remove the paste from fire, mix it with the yolks of 2 eggs 
and set aside to cool ; stir H tablespoonful butter to a cream and 
add, alternately, 6 tablespoonfuls sugar, the yolks of 6 eggs and 
the paste ; add first 1 spoonful sugar to the butter, then 1 yolk, then 
a small spoonful paste ; stir each part well before another is added ; 
the stirring is best done with a potato masher; when these ingre- 
dients are well mixed add by degrees H cup finely chopped or 
grated almonds ; add lastly the beaten whites of 6 eggs and fill the 
mixture into a white porcelain pudding dish which has been well 
buttered and sprinkled with bread crumbs ; bake in a medium hot 
oven for 40 minutes ; when done take the soufl6e from the oven, 
dust with powdered sugar, set the dish either in an ornamented 
silver dish or fold a napkin around it and serve at once with rasp- 
berry sauce. NoTB. — Plain flour may be substituted for rice flour; 
this is sufficient for 10 persons. 

• 

376. Lemon 8oufl6. — Boil 1 cup milk or cream with H 
tablespoonful butter ; mix 1 cup sifted flour with 1 cup cold milk 
and stir it into the- boiling milk ; continue stirring until the contents 
have formed into a smooth paste and loosens itself from bottom of 
saucepan ; transfer it to a dish and set aside ; when cold stir H table- 
spoonful butter to a cream and add, alternately, 6 tablespoonfuls 
sugar, the yolks of 8 eggs and the paste (by spoonfuls) ; stir each 
part well before another is added ; then add the grated rind and 
juice of 1 lemon and lastly the whites of 6 eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth ; fill the mixture into a well buttered form and bake in a 
moderatelv hot oven from 30 to 40 minutes; when done serve at 



SOUPL^JES. 103 

once with wine cream sauce and sprinkle the sooflee with powdered 
sugar. 

377. Tanilla Soufle is made the same as Almond or Lemon 
Souflee, omitting the almonds or lemon and adding 2 tablespoonf uls 
vanilla extract. Extract of lemon may be used the same way. 

378. Orange 8oufl6 is made the same as lemon, using in 
place of lemon the juice of 2 oranges and the grated rind of 1. 
Soufl^s may be put into a well buttered form, set in a vessel of 
hot water and either boiled or baked in the oven. 

379. Choeolate 8onfl6. — Boil 4 tablespoonf uls grated choco- 
late in 1 cup milk ; mix 3 tablespoonf uls cornstarch with 1 cup cold 
milk, stir it into the boiling chocolate, add 1 teaspoonful butter, 
and continue stirring until the contents loosen themselves from bot- 
tom of saucepan ; transfer the paste to a dish and set aside ; when 
nearly cold stir H tablespoonful butter to a cream and add alter- 
nately 6 tablespoonf uls sugar, the yolks of 8 eggs and the chocolate 
paste (by spoonfuls) ; add lastly the. beaten whites of 6 eggs and 
finish the same as Lemon Soufl^e ; serve with vanilla sauce. 

380. Maearooii Soufle. — Put into a buttered pudding dish a 
layer of macaroons and small sponge cakes ; over this a layer of 
cherries from which the pits have been removed ; then again a layer 
of macaroons and sponge cake ; continue in this way until the form 
is filled ; whip the yolks of 6 eggs with 1 bottle Rhine wine and 4 
tablespoonf uls sugar over the fire to a cream, but do not allow it to 
come to a boil ; pour this over the cake and fruit, set the dish in a 
vessel of hot water and bake H hour ; when done draw the soufl^e 
to the front of oven ; beat the whites of the 6 eggs with 4 table- 
spoonfuls currant juice or jelly to a stiff froth, spread it over the 
soufl^e, set it back in the oven and bake a few minutes ; serve with- 
out sauce. 

381. Apple Sonflg^ No, 1.— Pare and core 6 greening or 
pippin apples, set in a pan, add 1 quart hot water, cover with 
another pan of same size and let them steam on top of stove for 5 



104 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

minutes ; carefully remove the apples to a pudding dish and set 
aside to cool ; boil 1 cup milk with a little salt and 1 tablespoonf ul 
butter and stir in gradually 1 cup sifted flour; continue stirring 
until the contents have formed into a smooth paste ; transfer the 
paste to a dish and set aside to cool ; stir the yolks of 4 eggs with 4 
tablespoonf uls sugar to a cream, add by degrees the paste and when 
well mixed together add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth ; put a little jelly or marmalade into each apple, pour the mix- 
ture over them and bake 1 hour; serve with wine or hard sauce. 

382. Apple Soufl^^ No. 2. — Pare 8 or 10 greening or pippin 
apples, cut into fine slices and put them in a saucepan with 1 table- 
spoonful butter, a cup sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls finely cut citron 
and the same quantity of seedless raisins and currants ; stew this 
over the fire till apples are tender, but not broken ; add 2 table- 
spoonfuls apple or quince jelly and set aside to cool ; if jelly is not 
handy any kind of marmalade will do ; boil 1 H cups milk with H 
tablespoonf ul butter and stir in 1 cup sifted flour ; stir over the fire 
to a smooth paste ; remove from fire and when cold stir 1 H table- 
spoonfuls butter to a cream and add, alternately, the yolks of 6 
^^g^9 ^ tablespoonfuls sugar, the paste (by spoonfuls) and lastly 
the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; next butter a pudding 
dish and put in a layer of bread crumbs ^ of an inch in thickness ; 
then a layer of apples and little bits of butter ; again bread crumbs, 
again a layer of apples ; pour over the top the soufl6e mixture and 
bake 1 hour; serve without sauce in the same dish in which the 
soufl^e is baked. 

383. Apple Sonfl6^ No. 3. — Strain 1 quart apple sauce 
through a sieve, sweeten to taste and add the juice and grated rind 
of 1 lemon, the yolks of 5 eggs and lastly the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth ; put this into a buttered pudding dish and 
bake till it cracks on top ; sprinkle with sugar and serve without 
sauce. 

384. Apple 8oufl6^ No. 4. — Pare, core and quarter 6 apples, 
cut each quarter into fine slices and put them into a saucepan with 



SOUFLiSES. 105 

1 tablespoonfnl butter, H cup sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls seedless 
raisins and the same quantity of currants and finely cut citron ; 
cover and stew till apples are tender, but not broken ; add 2 table- 
spoonfuls quince or apple jelly and set aside ; when cold butter a 
pudding dish and sprinkle with bread crumbs ; have a soufl^e mix- 
ture prepared the same as in foregoing recipe ; put first a layer of 
the soufl6e mixture in the dish and sprinkle over some zwieback 
crumbs ; then a layer of the apples ; continue in this way with apples 
and soufl^e mixture till dish is full ; bake 1 hour ; when done turn 
the soufl6e onto a round dish and serve with fruit or wine sauce ; or 
without sauce and dust with sugar. 

886. Pineapple Souflfi. — Prepare a soufle mixture the same 
as for Plain Soufl6e ; butter a pudding dish and sprinkle with bread 
crumbs ; put in a layer of the soufl^ mixture and sprinkle over 1 
spoonful zwieback crumbs ; put over this a layer of stewed or pre- 
served pineapples cut into small dice, sprinkle over a little zwieback 
crumbs and cover with soufl6e mixture ; put in another layer of 
pineapple and a little zwieback crumbs ; put the remaining soufl^e 
mixture on top and bake 1 hour ; when done turn the soufl6e onto a 
dish and send raspberry or wine sauce to table with it. 

386. Rhubarb Soufle. — ^Pare and cut the rhubarb finely and 
put it in a saucepan over the fire to boil ; add a little water and suf- 
ficient sugar to sweeten ; when done press it through a sieve ; take 1 
quart of this stewed rhubarb and mix it with the yolks of 5 eggs 
and lastly the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; bake in 
buttered dioh till it cracks open on top, which will take about K 
hour; serve without sauce. 

387. Cherry 8oufl6 is made the same as Pineapple Soufie. 
Remove the pits from 1 or 2 pounds cherries, sprinkle with sugar 
and let them stand 1 hour ; then put them in alternate layers with 
the soufl6e mixture into a well buttered dish and finish the same as 
Pineapple SouflSe ; serve with cherry sauce. Peach, apricot and 
blackberry souflSes are made the same way. 



I » 

i 



106 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

888. Gooseberry Sonll6.— Stew the berries with" a little 
white wine, sweeten to taste and finish the same as Rhubarb 
Soufl6e. 

389. Raspberry 8oufl6. — Press l quart raspberries with 1 
handful red currants through a sieve, sweeten to taste and mix with 
the yolks of 6 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 3 tablespoonf uls zwie- 
back crumbs and the beaten whites of the eggs ; bake H hour. 

390. Cherry Omelets. — Remove the pits from 1 pound cher- 
ries, put them with H cup sugar and a little water over the fire and 
stew till done ; transfer them to a dish and set aside to cool ; mix 2 
tablespoonfuls prepared flour with 1 cup milk, the yolks of 6 eggs 
and lastly the 6 whites beaten to a stiff froth ; pour half of this into 
a hot pan with butter and fry a light brown on the underside ; then 
slip the omelet onto a plate and set it for a few minutes in the hot 
oven ; then take out, put 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls stewed cherries over 
it, double up and return to the oven until the second one is finished ; 
sprinkle over some sugar and serve with stewed cherries. 

391. Fruit Pancakes. — ^Mix IH cups sifted flour with H 
teaspoonful baking powder and add H teaspoonful salt, the yolks 
of 3 eggs and 1 H cups milk or water ; when this is well niixed stir 
in the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; bake from this 
mixture 4 large, thin pancakes ; was^h some ripe strawberries, sweet- 
en with sugar and mash them all up with a silver spoon ; put a layer 
of the mashed fruit over each pancake, lay them on top of one an- 
other, dust with powdered sugar and serve. 

392. Huckleberry Pancakes. — ^Prepare a batter the same as 
for Apple Pancakes ; put a pan with 1 tablespoonf ul lard over the 
fire ; when hot pour in some of the batter, about H inch in thick- 
ness, and let it bake for a few minutes ; then put on a thick layer of 
huckleberries and sprinkle over 2 tablespoonfuls zwieback crumbs; 
when done on the underside slip the cake onto a large plate ; lay a 
piece of butter and lard on top of the berries, put over the frying- 
pan and turn the cake back onto the pan; cover and fry slowly 
about 6 or 8 minutes; then upset the fryingpan upon a hot dish and 



/, 



SOUFLilBS. 107 

Bprinkle with sugar; set a plate with the cake over a saucepan of 
hot water until all are baked in the same manner; lay the cakes on 
top of one another, dust the whole with sugar and serve. Note. — ' 
The huckleberries may be stewed with a little lemon juice and sugar 
and thickened either with zwieback crumbs or cornstarch ; a glass of 
port wine added to it will make a great improvement. They may 
then be served either separately or put between the cakes. Pan- 
cakes with stewed plums or cherries, or any kind of stewed fruit, 
are very nice. 

393. Strawberry Pancakes. — Wash 1 quart strawberries and 
drain them in colander ; then prepare 4 large pancakes the same as 
for Cherry Pancakes ; as soon as one is done lay the cake on a plate, 
cover it with strawberries and sprinkle over some sugar ; set the 
plate over a saucepan of hot water and continue baking until they 
are all done ; lay them over one another with strawberries between 
and dust -the top with fine sugar. Blackberries are treated the same 
way. Or cover the surface of each pancake with strawberries and 
sugar, roll each one up separately like a music roll, dust them over 
with sugar and serve hot. 

394. Cherry Pancakes.-r-Remove the pits from 1 pound red 
cherries ; put 1 cup sugar with }i cup waller over the fire and boil a 
few minutes ; put in the cherries and boil 3 minutes ; remove from 
fire and set aside to cool ; prepare 4 large pancakes as follows : — 
Take 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoonf ul salt, 6 eggs and 1 pint milk ; sift 
flour and salt together, add the milk, the well beaten yolks of the 
eggs and mix it into a thin batter; beat the batter for 5 minutes 
with a wooden spoon or German quill ; beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth and stir them lightly through the mixture ; bake 4 
large pancakes from this, lay them on one another, with a layer of 
the stewed cherries between, dust the top with powdered sugar and 
serve hot. Or spread over the surface of each pancake a layer of 
cherries, roll each one up separately, arrange the rolls neatly on a 
long dish and dust over with powdered sugar ; serve while hot. This 
is a nice dish for dessert. 



] 



108 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

395. Pancakes (with Currants and Raspberries).— Strip 

H pound currants of their stemB, pick over an equal portion of ra^p- 
berrieB, put them in a colander and rinse with cold water; put them 
in a dish with 1 H cups sugar and let them stand for several hours ; 
bake 3 or 4 medium sized pancakes the same as Cherry Pancake, 
lay them over one another, with a layer of the sugared fruit be- 
tween, dust with sugar and serve hot. 

396. Plain German Pancakes. — 3 cups sifted flour, 2^ cupp 

water, 3 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, and 1 teaspoon- 
f ul salt ; put the sifted flour into a bowl, add the salt, make a hollow 
in the center, add the yolks and mix it gradually with the water in- 
to a smooth batter ; beat it with a wooden spoon for 5 minutes ; then 
add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; put a large f ry- 
ingpan with H tablespoonf ul lard and butter over the fire ; when 
hot pour in some of the mixture, sufficient to cover the bottom of 
pan, about i of an inch in thickness, shake the pan to and fro and 
bake till light brown on the underside ; slip the pancake onto a 
large plate, put a little butter and lard in center, put over the fry- 
ingpan, turn the pancake back into the pan and bake a light brown ; 
slip the cake onto a hot plate and serve either with syrup, sugar or 
jelly ; continue the baking until all the batter is used. 

397. Lemon Pancakes. — Bake pancakes the same as in fore- 
going recipe and when done squeeze over each one some lemon juice, 

dust with sugar and lay them over one another ; stir 1 tablespoonf ul 
butter with 3 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar to a cream, set it in a 
saucepan of hot water and stir till thin ; cut the pancakes into 
pieces, pour some of the sauce over each piece and serve hot. 

398. Peach Pancakes. — Pare and cut some ripe peaches into 

fine slices, sprinkle them with sugar and set in a cool place for 1 
hour; bake the pancakes the same as in foregoing recipe and lay the 
peaches between. 

399. Apple Pancakes. — Mix 2 cups sifted flour with 2 cups 

water, H teaspoonf ul salt and the yolks of 3 eggs ; when these are 
well mixed together add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 



SOUFlJlES. 109 

froth; place a fryingpan with 1 tablespoonfnl lard over the fire; 
when hot pour in some of the mixture, about H inch in thickness, 
put over this a thick layer of very finely cut apples, slip a knife un- 
derneath the pancake to keep it from burning and shake the pan too 
and fro ; when the underside is a light brown slip the pancake onto 
a plate ; put a piece of butter and lard on top of the apples, lay the 
fryingpan over it and turn the pancake over into the pan ; cover 
the pan and let it fry slowly until apples are soft ; slip the pancake 
onto a hot plate and set it over a saucepan of hot water until the 
remaining mixture is baked the same way. These ingredients will 
make from 3 to 4 cakes, according to the size of pan. They can be 
served separately or piled on top of one another. Sprinkle some 
sugar over each pancake. 

400. Apple Fritters. — 1 pint flour sifted with 1 t^^aspoonful 
baking powder, 3 eggs, 3 tablespoonf uls sugar, )i tablespoonfnl but- 
ter, )i cup milk and 2 cups finely chopped apples ; stir butter and 
sugar to a cream and add the yolks of 3 eggs ; then flour and milk, next 
the chopped apples and lastly the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth ; cut with a spoon a portion from this mixture the size of a 
large walrut, drop into boiling fat and fry till done ; serve dusted 
with sugar and send wine or snow sauce to table with it. The 
above recipe will make 20 fritters. K plain flour is used mix it 
frith 1 H teaspoonf uls baking powder and Ji teaspoonf ul salt. 

401. Cherry Fritters. — ^Remove the pits from 1 pint nice, 
ripe cherries, mix them with the same ingredients as Apple Fritters, 
fry in boiling lard, dust with powdered sugar and serve with cherry 
or wine sauce. 

402. Orange Fritters. — ^Pare and quarter 6 oranges and re- 
move the white skin and pits ; mix the orange pieces with the same 
ingredients as Apple Fritters, drop the mixture, by spoonfuls, into 
boiling lard and fry a light brown. See that each fritter has 3 
pieces of orange and serve with following sauce: — Stir 2 table- 
spoonfuls butter with 6 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar to a cream 

'and add the yolks of 2 e^^gs and % cup finely cut orange pieces; 



no DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

set the sauce in a saucepan of boiling water and stir till it is melted; 
then serve. Care should be taken to choose oranges that are not 
bitter. 

403* Bice Fritters. — Put 1 cup rice in a saucepan, add cold 
water and boil 5 minutes ; drain in colander and rinse with cold 
water; return rice to saucepan and add 1 pint milk, H teaspoonful 
salt and H tablespoonf ul butter ; boil until rice is thick and soft ; 
transfer it to a dish and when cold mix with 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
the yolks of 4 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls prepared flour and 
lastly the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; drop this with 
a tablespoon * like small dumplings into boiling lard and fry till 
done; pile them on a dish, dust over with sugar and serve with snow 
sauce flavored with wine and a little vanilla. 

404. Cocoanut Fritters. — Make a batter the same as for 
Apple Fritters, stir 1 large cup freshly grated cocoanut into it and 
finish the same as Apple Fritters. Serve with the following sauce : — 
Boil 1 cup sugar with H cup water till it forms a thread between 
2 fingers; remove from fire; beat the whites of 2 eggs to a stiff 
froth ; add the boiling hot sugar syrup slowly, beating constantly 
with an egg beater ; then stir in 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls cocoanut. 

405. Gnrrant Fritters. — 2 cups flour sifted with 1 teaspoon- 
ful baking powder, >i tablespoonful dripping or butter, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, the grated rind of }i lemon, H cup milk, 2 eggs and H cup 
well washed and dried currants ; stir dripping and sugar to a cream and 
add the yolks of 2 eggs ; then the sifted flour and milk ; the lemon 
and currants next ; add lastly the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth ; cut with a spoon small portions, the size of a walnut, 
from the mixture, drop them intojboiling lard or dripping and fry 
a light brown and well done ; dust them with sugar and serve with 
a syrup made as follows : — Boil 1 cup sugar with % cup water till 
it begins to turn yellow ; then remove from fire, add a little boiling 
water, stir for a few minutes and serve. These quantities make 20 
fritters. 

406. Walnut Fritters. — ^Break the nuts into small pieces and 
atir 2 cupf uls into a batter made the same as for Apple Fritters. Oi 



SOUFLilES. Ill 

bake the fritters plain, prepare a hard sauce, stir some nuts into it 
and serve with the fritters. Walnut fritters may be served with 
wine, hard or fruit sauce, or they may be served dusted with sugar 
without a sauce. 

407. Omelette Soafl6 i^ la vanille.— Stir the yolks of 9 

eggs with 3 tablespoonf uls sugaf to a cream ; add a little salt, 1 tea* 
spoonful vanilla extract and 6 macaroons pounded fine ; add lastly 
the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; place an omelet or 
large fr3ringpan with butter over the fire ; when hot put in i the 
egg mixture, shake the pan a little to and fro and bake the omelet 
to a delicate brown ; have ready a buttered dish, turn the omelet 
into it, with the brown side up, set in the oven and bake another 
omelet the same way ; lay the omelet on top of the one in dish, with 
brown side up ; then bake the third one ; lay it on top of the two 
and bake the whole 10 to 15 minutes ; draw them to the front of 
oven, sprinkle with sugar and hold a red hot shovel over, to brown 
the sugar; then remove from oven and serve at once. Omelet 
soufl6es should be eaten as soon as done. 

408. Omelette Sonfl^ Confltnres. — Prepare 3 or 4 omelets 
the same as in foregoing recipe, spread over each omelet some peach 
marmalade or fruit jelly, pour over them when done some warm 
fruit jelly and serve. 

409, Omelette Soufl^ (irith Chocolate).— Prepare the 

omelets the same as in foregoing recipe and sprinkle over each one 
a tablespoonful grated chocolate. 

410, Omelette Sonfl6 (with Cocoanat). — Prepare 3 or 4 

omelets the same as in foregoing recipe, lay them in a buttered dish 
on top of one another with thick layers of cocoanut between and 
bake 10 minutes; dust the soufl^e with sagar and serve at once. 

411, Bum or Marasehino Sonfl^. — Melt 2 ounces butter in 
a saucepan, add 2 tablespoonf uls flour and stir for a few minutes; 
add 1 cup boiling milk and stir till it forms into a smooth paste ; re- 
move it from the fire and set aside ; when cold stir 2 tablespoonf uls 
sugar with the yolks of 6 eggs to a cream and add by degrees the 



112 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

paste and 4 tablespoonfnls ram or maraschino ; add lastly the beaten 
whites of the eggs and bake in a well buttered and floured dish H 
hour ; serve as soon as baked with lemon cream or wine cream sauce. 

412. Tieima Soufl^, — ^Place a saucepan with H cup milk, 1 
tablespoonful flour and 2 tablespoonfuls butter over the fire and stir 
till thick; remove from flre and when cold add, alternately, the 
yolks of 6 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 teaspoonful lemon extract 
and lastly the whites of the 6 eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; fill this 
into a well buttered and floured dish and bake H hour in a medium 
hot oven ; when baked take it from the oven, dust with sugar and 
serve with raspberry sauce. 

413. Peach Soafl6« — Pare, quarter and stew 1 dozen large, 
ripe peaches in H cup water and 1 cup sugar; when done press 
them through a sieve and add a little more sugar if not sweet enough ; 
mix with the yolks of 6 eggs and lastly the beaten whites of the 
eggs ; bake in a well buttered dish 40 minutes. Another way is to 
omit the yolks of the eggs and take only the beaten whites, cherries, 
huckleberries and blackberries. Currants and r&spberries can also 
be used the same way. 

41 4. Aprieot 8onfl6. — Take a can of California ajjricots, press 
them through a sieve, add the syrup and if necessary a little more 
sugar; mix with 1 cup zwieback crumbs the yolks of 6 eggs and 
lastly the beaten whites of the eggs; put this into a buttered dish and 
bake 40 minutes. 

416, Farina 8onfl6 (Tienna art),— Put l H pints milk with 

1 tablespoonful butter over the fire ; as soon as it boils stir in 6 
ounces farina ; stir over the fire until it has formed into a smooth 
paste and loosens itself from bottom of saucepan ; transfer this paste 
to a dish ; when cold stir H pound butter to a cream, add 4 table- 
spoonfuls sugar, by degrees the yolks of 8 eggs and the farina 
paste ; add lastly the grated rind of 1 lemon and the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; fill the mixture into a buttered pud- 
ding dish and bake ^ hour; serve with fruit or wine sauce. 



SOUFLEES. 113 

416. Farina Soufl6 (Italian art). — Prepare farina the 
same as in preceding recipe ; when cold stir }i pound batter with 5 
tablespoonf uls sugar to a cream ; add by degrees the yolks of 9 
eggs and the foiled farina ; flavor with the rind of 1 lemon ; add 
lastly the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; fill a layer, 2 
inches thick, into a well buttered pudding dish, spread a thick layer 
of fruit marmalade over it and continue with layers of farina mix- 
ture and marmalade till all is used ; let the last layer be farina ; bake 
}i hour and serve with wine cream sauce. 

417. Farina Sonfl6. — Boil 1 cup milk with % tablespoonf ul 
butter; add slowly 4 tablespoonf uls farina and stir till it has formed 
into a smooth paste and loosens itself from bottom of saucepan ; 
transfer it to a dish and set aside ; when nearly cold stir ^i table- 
spoonful butter to a cream and add alternately 5 tablespoonfuls 
sugar, the yolks of 5 eggs and the farina paste ; stir each part well 
before another is added ; add lastly the whites of the eggs, beaten 
to a stiff froth, 1 teaspoonful essence of lemon and finish the same 
as Almond Soufl^ ; serve either with wine cream or fruit sauce. 

418. Strawberry 80afl6. — Wash and press through a sieve 
1 quart fresh strawberries ; mix them with 6 tablespoonfuls sugar and 
the beaten whites of 6 eggs ; fill this into a buttered dish, sprinkle 
with sugar and bake slowly 40 minutes; soufl6es of any kind of 
fruit jelly or marmalade are made the same way. 

419. Ghestnnt Sonfl6. — Put 30 large chestnuts with qo\k\ 
water over the-fire and boil 5 minutes; take them from the fire and 
remove the outside shells and the brown skins ; boil the chestnuts in 
milk till tender and press them through a sieve ; melt }i tablespoon- 
f ul butter, add 1 tablespoonful flour and stir for a few minutes over 
the fire ; add }i cup boiling milk, stir and let it boil up, remove 
from fire and set aside ; when cooled off mix it with the chestnut 
pur^e and add 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla and the 
beaten whites of 6 eggs. This soufl^ may be baked either in pa- 
per boxes or in a dish ; dup^- with sugar when ready to serve. 



114 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

420. Beignet 8onfl6. — ^Boil }i pint milk with yi tablespoon- 
f ul butter, 1 tablespoonfnl sugar and add by degrees, while boiling, 
1 cup sifted flour; stir constantly till it has formed into a smooth 
paste and loosens itself from bottom of saucepan ; remove the paste 
from fire and set aside to cool ; then mix it with 2 whole eggs and 
the yolks of 2 ; place a wide saucepan with lard over the fire, drop 
with a teaspoon small dumplings into the boiling fat and fry them 
to a delicate brown ; drain them on blotting paper, lay them onto a 
warm dish, dust with sugar and serve at once. 

421. Potato Soufld. — Boil 6 large potatoes with the skins in 
water until done ; when cold remove the skins and grate the potatoes 
on a grater ; use only that portion which lies behind the grater and 
be sure there is 3 cupf uls ; then stir 1 ii tablespoonf uls butter to a 
Qream and add alternately the yolks of 6 eggs, 6 tablespoonf uls 
sugar and the grated rind of 1 lemon ; add % cup ground or pounded 
almonds and 3 tablespoonf uls dry f arino ; then add the grated pota- 
toes and lastly the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; put 
this mixture into a well buttered form and bake 1 hour; serve with 
the following sauce : — Mix 1 tablespoonf ul butter with 1 Ji teaspoon- 
fuls cornstarch, add 1 cup boiling water and stir over the fire to a 
thick, creamy sauce ; then add 2 tablespoonf uls sugar, 1 cup sherry 
wine, a little lemon juice and H teaspoonful vanilla; strain through 
a sieve and serve. 

422. Tanilla Koch. — ^Put 1% cups milk in a saucepan and 
add 3 tablespoonf uls sugar, the yolks of 6 eggs and 3 teaspoonfuls 
flour; mix this well together, place the saucepan in a vessel of boil- 
ing water and stir over the fire till nearly boiling and thick ; remove 
it from the fire and set saucepan in cold water ; when cold mix it 
with 1 % teaspoonfuls vanilla extract and the whites of the 6 eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth ; fill this into a well buttered and floured 
mould, set in a pan of hot water and bake in a medium hot oven H 
hour, or till done ; when ready to serve send to table either in the 
same dish or turn ' onto another dish and send claret or strawberry 
sauce to table with it. Eoch of all kinds should be served imme- 
diately upon being done. 



SOUFLl^ES. 115 

433. Cream Eoeh (boiled).— Stir together the yolks of 6 
eggs with 6 tablespoonf uls cream and 3 tablespoonf uls flour and 
lastly the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; butter a mould, 
dust with flour, put in the mixture, cover tightly and place in a 
vessel of boiling water; boil slowly 1 hour; or place the form in a 
pan of hot water and bake in the oven ; when baked turn the koch 
onto a dish and serve with fruit or claret sauce. 

424. Nndel Sonfl6. — Boil l quart milk with K teaspoonful 
salt and add 2 cups finely cut home-made nudels ; continue the boil- 
ing for 15 minutes; then pour the nudels into a dish and when cold 
stir 1 tablespoonf ul butter to a cream, add alternately the yolks of 
6 eggs and 6 tablespoonf uls sugar ; also add the grated rind of 1 
lemon ; then add the nudels by degrees and lastly the whites beaten 
to a stiff froth ; pour this mixture into a buttered pudding dish, 
bake 1 hour and serve in the same dish in which it was baked ; 
either set in a silver dish or fold a napkin around it. For sauce 
boil a cup water, dissolve 1 teaspoonful cornstarch in a little cold 
water and add it to the boiling water ; boil a few minutes ; then add 
1 cup apple or currant jelly; continue boiling, stirring constantly, 
till jelly is dissolved ; then strain through a sieve, add % cup white 
wine and a little sugar if not sweet enough. 

425. HacarOOn Souflfi. — H pound macaroons pounded fine, 
H tablespoonf ul butter, 3 cups boiling milk and 1 tablespoonful 
flour; put the butter in a saucepan and when melted add the flour; 
stir for a few minutes ; then add the boiling milk and the macaroons ; 
stir this until it forms a smooth paste ; transfer it to a dish and set 
aside to cool ; stir 1 tablespoonful butter to a cream and add alter- 
nately the yolks of 8 eggs, the macaroon paste and 2 tablespoon- 
f uls sugar ; add lastly the whites beaten to a stiff froth ; fill this 
mixture into a well buttered form and bake 1 hour; serve with wine 
cream sauce or without sauce. 

426. Zwiebaek Koch. — Boil l pint milk and add 3 ounces 
rolled zwieback and % tablespoonful butter ; continue boiling, stir- 
ring constantly, until it has formed into a smooth paste ; remove 



116 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

from fire and when cold mix with the yolks of 4 eggs, ^i pound 
grated hazel nuts, % cup sugar and lastly the whites beaten to a 
stiff froth ; fill the mixture into a well buttered dish and bake H 
hour; when done turn the kochout onto a round dish and pour rasp- 
berry sauce over it. 

427. Almond Koch (with Snow Sance).— Melt 114 table- 
spoonfuls butter and add 4 tablespoonfuls sugar and the yolks of 6 

eggs ; stir this over the fire till thick and smooth ; remove from the 
fire and add H pound finely cut almonds, 1 teaspoonful vanilla ex- 
tract and the whites of 4 eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; put the mix- 
ture into a well buttered and floured form, cover, set in a vessel of 
boiling water and boil 1 hour - when done turn the koch onto a 
warm dish and pour a snow sauce over it, which is made as fol- 
lows : — Boil }i cup sugar with Ji cup water until it begins to turn 
yellow ; then remove from fire and stir it slowly into the beaten 
whites of 2 eggs while stirring constantly with an egg beater ; flavor 
with 1 teaspoonful lemon extract ; pour the sauce over the turned 
out koch, set it for a few minutes in the oven and serve ; or the 
sauce may be served separate with the koch. 

428. Plain Eoch (with Strawberry Ghaudean).— Melt in 

a saucepan }^ pound butter and add K pound sugar and the yolks 
of 8 eggs ; stir this over the fire till thick and smooth ; remove and 
mix it with the juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 tablespoonf ul 
flour and the whites of 4 eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; fill this into a 
well buttered and floured pudding dish, cover with a tin plate, set 
dish in a pan of hot water and bake 1 hour ; when done turn the 
koch onto a dish and pour the following strawberry sauce over it : — 
Beat the whites of 4 eggs to a froth ; press the juice from 1 pint 
strawberries and put it in a saucepan with ^ cup white wine or the 
juice of 1 lemon, H cup sugar and the yolks of 4 eggs ; beat this 
with an egg beater over the fire till it begins to rise ; remove in- 
stantly, continue beating for a few minutes longer and add the 
beaten whites ; then pour it over the koch or sen'e it in a sauce 
dish; or serve the koch with snow sauce. 



SOUFLtES. 117 

429. Apple Eoch^ No. 1. — Wash and cut 5 medium sized 
apples into pieces, put them in a saucepan with a little water and 
boil till tender ; press them through a sieve and mix with 4 table- 
spoonfuls sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs, a little grated orange or lemon 
peel, H cup fine bread crumbs and lastly the 4 whites beaten to a 
stiff froth ; bake in a buttered dish 1 hour ; when done dust with 
sugar and serve without sauce. 

430. Apple Eoch^ No. 2. — Pare and cut fine ^ dozen green- 
ing or pippin apples, put them in a saucepan with H cup white 
wine, 2 tablespoonf ills sugar and a little lemon or orange peel and 
let them stew till tender ; press through a sieve and set aside to cool ; 
stir the yolks of 4 eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls sugar to a cream and 
add 2 ounces finely cut citron, 2 ounces grated almonds and 3 table- 
spoonf uLs fine bread crumbs ; add the apples and lastly the 4 whites 
beaten to a stiff froth ; fill the mixture into a well buttered form, 
sprinkle with bread crumbs and bake H hour. 

431. Apple Eoeh (with Almonds and Raisins).— Mix the 

yolks of 4 eggs with 3 tablespoonfuls sugar and add 4 tablespoon- 
fuls bread crumbs, 1 cup finely cut apples, 2 ounces finely cut 
almonds, H cup seedless raisins, 2 tablespoonfuls cream and lastly 
the whites beaten to a froth ; bake in a buttered dish ^ hour ; 
when done turn the koch onto a dish ; put 1 H cups claret with 3 
tablespoonfuls sugar, a piece of cinnamon, a little lemon peel and 
a few cloves over the fire ; let it boil up, strain and pour over the 
koch. 

432. Jelly Eoch. — Stir 2 tablespoonfuls sugar with 1 table- 
spoonful butter to a cream and add by degrees H cup raspberry, 
currant, apple or quince jelly ; continue stirring until well mixed ; 
then add gradually the yolks of 4 eggs and lastly the whites beaten 
to a stiff froth ; bake in a buttered form % hour and serve turned 
onto a dish dusted with sugar. If this koch is to be boiled take the 
yolks of 5 eggs and the whites of 2 ; in serving pour a wine cream 
sauce around it. 



118 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

433. Cream Koeh. — ^Pnt in a sancepan IH caps milk, the 
yolks of 6 eggs, H cup sugar, 3 teaspoonfuls flour and stir over the 
fire till nearly boiling ; remove it, set saucepan in a pan of cold 
water and stir till cold ; then mix it with the whites beaten to a stiff 
froth ; fill into a well buttered pudding dish, sprinkle over some 
sugar and finely chopped almonds and bake 20 minutes. 

434. Cream Koch (with Sponge Cake).— Spread 8 small 

slices of sponge cake with quince, apple or currant jelly, put 2 to- 
gether, cut them through the center and lay into a buttered dish; 
pour over a little cherry, Madeira or fruit syrup ; pour over it a 
cream koch the same as in foregoing recipe, sprinkle with sugar and 
bake about 10 minutes. Or dip the cake into the syrup of pre- 
served fruit— either peaches or cherries — and lay some fruit over it; 
then cover with same cream and bake 15 minutes. 

435. Almond Eoch. — Stir IH tablespoonfuls butter with 4 
tablespoonf uls sugar to a cream and add the yolks of 6 eggs and 4 
ounces finely chopped blanched almonds; add lastly the beaten 
whites of 4 eggs and H teaspoonful vanilla; butter a small form, 
sprinkle with flour, put in the above mixture, cover and set the 
form in a vessel of boiling water; boil gently 1 hour; when done 
turn the koch onto a dish and serve with strawberry sauce. 

436. Nudel Koch. — Prepare a nudel dough from the yolks of 
2 eggs, a pinch of salt and sufficient flour to form a stiff paste ; roll 
out, cut them fine and boil in cream or milk till tender and thick; 
then set aside to cool ; stir 4 tablespoonfuls sugar with 1 tablespoon- 
f ul butter to a cream and add by degrees the yolks of 5 eggs and 
the grated rind and juice of 1 lemon ; add gradually the nudels and 
lastly the beaten whites of 3 eggs ; put this into a well buttered 
form and bake % hour ; serve with fruit or wine sauce or snow 
sauce. 

437. Nudel Eoch (hoiled). — Butter a pudding form, sprinkle 
with bread crumbs and lay thin slices of citron all around the form; 
prepare the nudels the same as in foregoing recipe, add some finely 



SOUFLfiES, 119 

cut citron and pnt them in the form; boil slowly 1 hour; when done 
turn the koch onto a dish, sprinkle with sugar, hold a red hot shovel 
over and pour over the juice of 1 orange ; serve with wine cream 
sauce. 

438. Nnt Eoeh^ No. 1. — Melt 1 tablespoonful butter in a 
small saucepan and add 3 tablespoonf uls sugar and. the yolks of 6 
eggs; stir this constantly over a slow fire till thick; remove from 
fire and when cold mix it with 3 tablespoonfuls almond paste and 
the whites beaten to a stiff froth ; butter a pudding form and dust 
with flour; set the form in a deep pan of boiling water, cover and 
set in a medium hot oven to bake 1 hour ; serve with the following 
sauce : — ^Place a saucepan with 1 H cups white wine, 4 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar and 3 eggs over the fire ; beat constantly with an egg 
beater until it begins to rise ; remove instantly, set saucepan for a 
few minutes in cold water and continue the beating ; then pour the 
sauce in a sauciere and serve. If almond paste is not handy a small 
cup of almonds grated on a nutmeg grater may be used. 

439. Nnt Eoeh^ No. 2. — ^Melt 1 H tablespoonfuls butter and 
add the yolks of 8 eggs and 3 tablespoonfuls sugar; stir this over 
the fire till thick ; remove it from the fire and mix with H pound 
finely cut hazel or walnuts, 2 H tablespoonfuls fine bread crumbs 
which have been wet with 3 tablespoonfuls cream or milk and lastly 
the 8 whites beaten to a stiff froth and mixed with 2 tablespoonfuls 
powdered sugar ; butter a pudding form, sprinkle with bread crumbs, 
fill in the mixture, cover and set in a vessel of boiling water (the 
water should reach half way up the form) and boil 1 hour; serve 
with the following sauce : — ^Beat the whites of 3 eggs to a froth ; let 
^ cup fruit syrup or jelly get boiling hot and add it slowly to the 
beaten whites, beating constantly with an egg beater; when the 
pudding or koch is turned out onto a dish pour the sauce around it 
and serve at once. 

440. Blee Koch. — Soak 3 tablespoonfuls rice for 2 hours in 
cold water, drain and dry it on a sieve ; then pound it fine and boil 
in 1 pint cream or milk until thick; when cold stir 1 tablespoonful 



1^0 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

batter to a cream with 2 tablespoonfnls sagar and add by degrees 
the yolkfi of 4 eggs, the rice, 1 tablespoonful rnm, the ripd of 1 
lemon, 2 tablespoonfuls finely cut citron and lastly the whites, 
which must be beaten to a stiff froth ; butter a pudding form, 
sprinkle with fine bread crumbs, fill it with the rice mixture, close 
the form tightly and boil 1 H hours ; or set the form in a pan of hot 
water in the oven and bake 1 hour ; serve with fruit sauce. 

441. Yanilla Almond Eoch. — Stir 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 
with the yolks of 5 eggs to a cream and add 2 tablespoonfuls fine 
bread crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls almond paste, 1 tablespoonful melt- 
ed butter, 1 teaspoonful vanilla and lastly the whites beaten to a 
stiff froth ; fill this into a well buttered and floured form, cover, set 
in a pan of hot water and bake 1 hour ; when done turn the koch 
onto a warm dish, pour over some rum, light it and bring to table 
in a blaze; send hard sauce to table with it. This koch may also 
be boiled on top of stove. 

442. Eoch (with Orange Ghandean).— Melt in a small sauce- 
pan 2 ounces butter and add 3 tablespoonfuls sugar and the yolks 
of 5 eggs ; stir this over a slow fire till thick and smooth ; remove 
and mix it with K pound finely grated or pounded nuts, 2 table- 
spoonfuls finely cut citron, the grated rind of 1 lemon and i4 ounce 
finely cut candied orange peel ^ add lastly the whites of 4 eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth and finish the same as Nut Eoch. 

443. Orange Chandean. — Put the juice of 3 oranges and 1 
lemon with H cup water in a saucepan and add 4 tablespoonfuls 
sugar and the yolks of 4 eggs ; beat this over the fire with an egg 
beater till nearly boiling ; remove, stir for a few minutes longer and 
serve either in a sauciere or pour it over the turned out koch. If 
liked a little rum may be added to the chaudeau. It is then called 
Punch Chaudeau. 

444. Eoeh (with Nnt Cream). — Melt 2 ounces butter and 
add the yolks of 5 eggs and 2 tablespoonfuls sugar ; stir over the 
fire till thick ; remove and mix it with H teaspoonful cinnamon, a 
pinch of cloves, the gi*ated rind of 1 lemon and 1 H tablespoonfuls 



SOUFL]feES. 121 

bread crumbs wet with 2 tablespoonf uls rum or Cognac ; remove 
the shells from }i pound hazel nuts or walnuts and grate the kernels 
on a nutmeg grater ; add them to the above mixture with the whites 
of 3 eggs beaten to a stiff froth and finish the same as in foregoing 
recipe ; serve with the following cream : — Grate 2 ounces almond, 
hazel or walnuts on a nutmeg grater, put them into 1 pint boiling 
cream or milk, cover and let it stand till cold ; then strain through 
a fine sieve ; put the milk in a saucepan with the yolks of 5 eggs 
and 2 tablespoonf uls sugar ; stir this with an egg beater over the fire 
till nearly boiling ; remove instantly, continue the stirring for a few 
minutes longer and either pour it over the koch or serve in a sau- 
ciere, 

445. Eoch (with Chocolate Beguss).— Melt 1 tablespoonf ul 

butter and add 3 tablespoonf uls sugar and the yolks of 5 eggs ; stir 
this over the fire till thick and smooth ; remove and set aside to 
cool ; soak 2 milk rolls without the crust in milk or cream ; when 
soft put them with the milk over the fire and boil and stir till it 
forms into a smooth paste ; remove from fire and when cold mix it 
with the above egg mixture ; add 1 cup grated nuts and lastly the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth ; put the mixture into a well buttered 
and floured dish ; cover and set the dish into a deep pan of hot 
water, set in a hot oven and bake 1 hour ; when done turn the koch 
onto a round dish and pour the following sauce over it : — Boil M 
pound grated chocolate with 1 K cups water and H, cup sugar for 
10 minutes ; or boil }i cup sugar with % cup water until it begins 
to get light brown ; take from the fire, let it stand for a few min- 
utes and then pour it over the koch. 

446. BeignetS of Buns* — Take some long baker's buns 
(ones which are a day or 2 old are the best), cut them into halves, 
dip each half separately into cold milk and lay them on a dish ; mix 
1 cup sifted flour with ^ teaspoonful salt, the yolks of 2 eggs and 
1 cup milk to a smooth, thin batter ; add lastly the 2 whites beaten 
to a stiff froth ; put a large f ryingpan with 1 tablespoonf ul lard 
and butter over the fire ; when hot dip each half of bun into the 
batter, lay them in the pan and fry on both sides to a fine brown 



122 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

color; serve on a long dish ; dust with sugar and lay 1 spoonful 
stewed fruit — such as plums, cherries, apples, huckleberries or 
stewed gooseberries — or some fruit jelly over each one. 

447. Beignets of Zwieback. — ^Lay l dozen round zwiebacks 
on a long dish, pour over some cold milk and let them lay until 
they begin to get soft; dip each one separately into a batter, the 
same as Beignets of Buns ; fry in H lard and H butter on both 
sides to a light brown color, dust with sugar and serve with fruit or 
snow sauce. 

448. Poor Knights (Arme Bitter).— Cut a long loaf of 
bread (2 days old) into slices H inch thick, dip each slice into cold 
milk, lay them on a dish on top of one another, pour a little milk 
over the whole and let them lay for 10 minutes ; beat up 3 eggs 
with 3 tablespoonfuls milk, dip each slice into the beaten eggs and 
then fry in H butter and }i lard in a fryingpan to a light brown 
on both sides ; serve on a hot dish dusted with sugar. Stewed or 
preserved huckleberries may be sent to table with it or poured over 
the bread. Jellies of fruit or marmalade may also be served with it. 

449. Apple Beignets. — Pare and core with an apple corer }i 
dozen large apples, cut them into slices }i inch in thickness, put 
them in a dish, sprinkle over some sugar, a little cinnamon and pour 
over 1 glass rum; let them lay for 2 hours, tossing them up now 
and then ; shortly before serving wipe dry, dip them in a batter, 
the same as Beignets of Buns, and fry in boiling lard to a light 
brown color ; serve them piled up on a dish, dusted with sugar, and 
serve with wine or snow sauce; or send to table without sauce. 

450. Poyeison. — Cut a loaf of French bread which is 2 days 
old (after the crust has been removed) into slices about H inch in 
thickness ; stew 1 pound dry prunes with a piece of cinnamon and a 
little sugar and lemon peel ; when done drain them on a sieve, re- 
move the pits and boil the liquor down 'to H ; chop the plums fine 
and mix them with the liquor ; add a little more sugar ; spread this 
plum marmalade a finger thick on one side of each slice of bread, 



SOUFLfiES. 123 

dip them separately into milk, lay onto a dish and let them lay H 
hour ; then dip them into beaten ^gg and fry in boiling lard ; when 
they are all fried dust them with powdered sugar and a little cinna- 
mon ; arrange them on a dish with a napkin under and serve hot. 
The poveison may also be dipped first in beaten eggs and then in 
bread crumbs. In place of plums any kind of fruit or marmalade 
may be taken, but it must be thick. 

451. Poveison of Pineapple* — Prepare the bread the same as 
in foregoing recipe, spread one side of the slices with a thick layer 
of pineapple marmalade and finish the same as in preceding recipe. 

452. Beignets h la Harie-Louise. — Prepare a biroche dough 
(as in No. 773), roll it out 1 inch thick, cut into rounds and brush 
half of them over with beaten eggs ; put in the center 1 teaspoonf ul 

peach or apricot marmalade, coven them with the remaining rounds 
and press the edges together ; cut them out again with a cutter a 
little smaller than the first one, let them lay on a floured board 
with a floured napkin under them and set in a warm place for about 
1 hour to rise ; shortly before serving fry in boiling lard to a light 
brown color, lay them on a soft cloth, to absorb the fat, and serve 
with fruit sauce. 

453. Beignets de creme h la fran^aise. — Beat up 3 whole 

eggs, the yolks of 6 and add 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, K cup cream 
or milk and a little vanilla ; put this into 6 buttered cups, set them 
in a pan of water, cover and bake till firm ; remove them from oven 
and when cold turn them out and cut each one into 3 slices ; lay 
them onto a tin pan, cut a round piece out of the center and fill up 
the hole with warm marmalade ; when cold dip the beignets first 
into pounded macaroons, then in beaten egg, then in fine bread 
crumbs and fry in boiling lard to a light brown ; serve on a napkin 
dusted with sugar and send either a snow, vanilla or caramel sauce 
to table with them. 

454. Peach Beignets. — ^Pare and cut into halves 1 dozen 
large peaches, sprinkle over H cup sugar and pour a glass of Cognac 



124 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

or white brandy over them ; cover and let them stand about 2 hours ; 
shortly before serving lay them*in rows upon a clean cloth and 
press another cloth lightly upon them to absorb the moisture ; have 
ready a batter, dip each one separately into it and fry in boiling 
lard to a light brown color ; lay them onto blotting paper, to absorb 
the fat, dust with powdered sugar and serve with the following 
sauce : — Heat the peach syrup to boiling point ; beat the whites of 
3 eggs to a stiff froth, add slowly the hot syrup, beating constantly, 
and serve. 

455. Batter for Beignets. — Mix 1 cup sifted flour with a 

little salt, the yolks of 2 eggs and 1 cup milk to a smooth, thin 
batter ; beat the 2 whites to a stiff froth ; then add the batter slowly 
to the whites, beating constantly ; it is then ready for use. 

456. Pineapple Beignets. — ^Pare a small, ripe pineapple, cut 

into very thin slices and remove the hard part in center with a cut- 
ter or apple corer, so they have the shape of rings ; dip the rings 
first into sugar, then in batter and fry in boiling lard ; lay them on 
paper or soft cloth, to absorb the fat, dust with sugar and serve 
with orange snow sauce made as follows: — Put the juice of 3 
oranges with ^i cup sugar over the fire to boil for 5 minutes and 
add a little grated rind ; have the whites of 3 eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth, add the hot orange syrup slowly, beating constantly, and 
serve ; or the beignets may be served without sauce or brushed over 
with orange glaze. Oranges may be used instead of pineapples. 

457. Beignets of Nudels. — ^Prepare nudels from 2 eggs; cut 

fine and boil them in 3 cups milk with ii tablespoonf ul butter and 
2 tablespoonf uls sugar until thick ; spread them )^ inch in thickness 
onto buttered tins and when cold cut them into rounds with a bis- 
cuit cutter or small wineglass ; spread 1 side with marmalade or 
jelly, lay 2 and 2 together and dip them in beaten eggs and fine 
zwieback or bread crumbs ; fry in boiling lard and serve on a nap- 
kin dusted with sugar. 

458. Beignets & la polonaise. — Bake % dozen small, thin 
pancakes, put them on paper and cover each cake with the follow- 



f 



BOTTPLtlSa. 125 

ing cream: — ^Put in a saucepan 1 tablespoonfnl flour, 1 cup milk, 
the yolks of 3 eggs, a pinch of salt, 1 H tablespoonf uls sugar, a 
teaspoonf ul butter and a little vanilla ; stir this over the fire till it 
begins to boil ; remove from the fire and when cold spread it over 
the pancakes ; roll them up, cut into 2 pieces, press the edges to- 
gether, dip each in egg and bread crumbs and bake in boiling lard ; 
serve on a napkin dusted with sugar and send fruit sauce to table 
with them. They may also be dipped into batter and then fried. 

459. Pannequets & la royale. — H pound sifted flour, 5 

ounces melted butter, 6 eggs, 1 H cups cream or milk, ^ teaspoon- 
f ul salt and 2 H tablespoonf uls sugar ; stir the 6 yolks, sugar and 
salt together and add slowly the melted butter, flour and the luke- 
warm cream ; add lastly the 6 whites beaten to a stiff froth ; bake 
this mixture into small pancakes the size of a saucer, spread them 
with fruit marmalade or jelly, roll them up, lay them together in 
squares, sprinkle with sugar and hold a red hot shovel over to glaze ; 
arrange them on a dish in two rows over each other and serve with 
sabayon of oranges or wine chaudeau. These pancakes may be 
served with any kind of sweet sauce. Stewed fruit may also be laid 
in center of dish and the pancakes laid around it. 

460. Panneqnets & la vanille. — ^Prepare some pancakes th^ 

iame as in Pannequets Meringu6s, spread over boiled cream, roll 
each one up separately, cut them into two pieces, arrange them onto 
a round dish in a circle, sprinkle over some sugar and pounded 
macaroons and let them heat through slowly in the oven ; serve with 
vanilla sauce. 

461. Pannequets meringues. — ^Mix H cup sifted flour with 

H cup cream and add a pinch of salt, 2 whole eggs, the yolks of 6, 
1 H tablespoonf uls sugar, 2 ounces finely pounded macaroons and 1 
pint rich, sweet cream ; mix all the ingredients well together and 
bake H hour before serving thin pancakes from this in an omelet 
pan ; lay the pancakes on a round dish and spread over each a layer 
of cream the same as Beignets k la polonaise ; put the cakes on top 
of one another; beat the 6 whites to a stiff froth, mix with }i cup 



12Q DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

powdered sugar and spread this meringue all over the cakes ; set 
dish in oven for a few minutes ; put little bits of bright jelly on top 
and serve without sauce. 

462. Plain Omelet. — 3 eggs, 3 spoonfuls milk, }i teaspoon- 
f ul salt and a pinch of white pepper ; stir yolks, pepper, salt and 
milk together ; beat the whites to a stiff froth and add the above 
mixture slowly to them, beating constantly ; put a large frying or 
omelet pan over the fire with H tablespoonf ul butter ; when hot 
pour in the omelet mixture ; do not stir, but as the eggs set slip a 
broad-bladed knife under the omelet to keep it from burning on the 
bottom ; when done slip the knife under one side of the omelet and 
double it over ; slip it onto a warm plate and set for 2 minutes in a 
h'ot oven ; serve at once. 

463. Bnm Omelet. — Prepare an omelet the same as in fore- 
going recipe ; when it comes from the oven dust thickly with granu- 
lated sugar; pour 4 tablespoonf uls best rum into a cup, light it with 
a match and pour while burning over the omelet ; serve at once ; as a 
dessert sufficient for 3 persons. 

464. Strawberry Omelet. — Wash and drain in a colander 1 
pint strawberries, put them in a dish with K cup sugar and set aside 
until omelet is made.* Ingredients for the omelet : — 6 eggs, 1 table- 
spoonful cornstarch mixed with ^ teaspoonf ul baking powder, H 
teaspoonful salt, H tablespoonf ul melted butter and 1 cup milk; stir 
the yolks, salt, flour, powder and milk together; beat ther whites to 
a stiff froth and add the above mixture slowly to them, stirring con- 
stantly; put a large frying or omelet pan with H tablespoonf ul 
butter over the fire ; when hot pour in H the omelet mixture ; do 
not stir, but as the eggs set slip a broad-bladed knife under the 
omelet, to prevent burning on the bottom, and shake the pan to and 
fro ; when the underside is a light brown set pan with omelet for a 
few minutes in oven ; then scatter K the strawberries over the sur- 
face ; slip the broad-bladed knife under one side of omelet and 
double in two, inclosing the fruit; dust over the top with powdered 



CHARLOTTE DB POMMES. 127 

sugar and let it remain in oven till the next one is baked the same 
way; then serve at once; sufficient for a family of 6 persons. 

466. Hnckleberry Omelet is made the same way as Straw- 
berry Omelet. Omelets of blackberries, peaches, stewed or pre- 
served fruit, such as cherries, plums, etc., are also made the same 
way. 

466. Orange Omelet. — ^Prepare an omelet the same as for 
Strawberry Omelet; pare and cut fine 4 oranges, remove pits and 
white skin, mix the pulp of oranges with sugar and finish the same 
as Strawberry Omelet. 

467. Jelly Omelet is made the same way as Strawberry Ome- 
let, using jelly instead of strawberries. 

468. Omelette h la fran^aise. — Break 6 eggs into a kettle, 
beat them with an egg beater until they foam and add 1 teaspoon- 
f ul salt and a little pepper ; place a large frying or omelet pan with 
1 heaping tablespoonf ul butter over slow fire ; as soon as butter is 
hot pour in the eggs and draw them with a spoon slowly from the 
side of pan to the center; when nearly thick let it stand for a few 
minutes without stirring and let it get on the underside a light 
brown ; fold it over from both sides and turn onto a dish with the 
folded side underneath. Some finely minced chives or parsley may 
be mixed into the eggs before baking. 



CHABLOTTEa 

469. Charlotte of Apples^ No. 1.— Pare and quarter 10 good 
sized apples (greening or pippin) and cut each quarter into slices; 
put them in a saucepan with 2 tablespoonf uls butter, 6 tablespoon- 
f uls sugar and the grated rind of H orange or 1 lemon ; cover and 
let them stew till apples are soft, but not broken ; then add H cup 
currant or apple jelly, H cup seedless raisins, the same quantity of 
currants, 2 tablespoonf uls finely cut citron and a little finely cut 
candied orange peel; cut a large, stale loaf of bread into thin slices 



128 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

about i inch thick ; cut each slice into rounds with a cake cutter or 
with the cover of a baking powder box, dip each round piece with 
one side into melted butter and fit them neatly in the bottom and 
sides of a 2-quart pudding dish with the buttered side towards the 
dish ; lay the rounds so that they lap over one another ; then fill the 
dish with the apples ; cover them with a layer of the round pieces 
of bread with the buttered sides towards the apples ; bake in a me- 
dium hot oven 40 minutes ; when done turn the charlotte onto a 
dish, dust with powdered sugar and serve. 

470. Charlotte of Apples^ No. 2. — Cut H pound rye bread 
or pumpernickel into thin slices and dry them in the oven ; then roll 
them fine on a pastry board with a rolling pin and mix with }4 cup 
melted butter, H cup sugar and H teaspoonf ul cinnamon ; })ress 
this into the bottom and on the sides of a pudding dish in such a 
way that the inside has a complete lining of bread ; fill it with ap- 
ples prepared the same as in foregoing recipe ; cover with a thin 
layer of bread crumbs and bake 40 minutes ; when done turn the 
charlotte onto a dish, dust with sugar and serve with fruit sauce. 
Some of the sauce may be poured over the charlotte before sending 
to table. 

471. Charlotte of Peaches. — ^Line a form with bread the 
same as Charlotte of Apples, No. 1 ; pare and cut into halves 15 
ripe peaches ; dissolve 1 pound sugar in 1 cup cold water, place it 
over the fire and boil 5 minutes ; add the peaches and boil about 6 
minutes ; take them out and set aside to cool ; add to the syrup }i 
cup apple jelly and boil 10 minutes longer; when cold put the 
peaches into the form, pour over )i the syrup, cover neatly with 
bread and bake 40 minutes ; when done turn the charlotte onto a 
dish, pour the remaining syrup over it and serve at once. Char- 
lottes may be made of all kinds of preserved fruits, such as peaches, 
cherries, apricots, pears or plums. 

473. Charlotte of Cherries. — Remove the pits from 2 pounds 
cherries; dissolve 1 pound sugar in 1 cup cold water and boil 5 
minutes ; put in the cherries and boil 3 minutes ; remove the fruit 



CHARLOTTE DE POMMES. 129 

with a skimmer, boil the syrup a little longer and then set aside; line 
a form with bread the same as Charlotte of Apples, put in the 
cherries, pour over a little of the syrup, cover with bread and bake 
40 minutes ; when done turn onto a dish ; add to the remaining 
syrup 1 glass brandy and pour it over the charlotte. 

473. Charlotte of Cnrrants. — ^Remove 1 pound currants 
from their stems and add 1 pound raspberries ; wash and put them 
with 1 H cups sugar into a dish and let them stand f 6r 1 hour ; line 
a form with bread the same as Charlotte of Apples, put in the fruit, 
cover with bread and bake 40 minutes ; when done turn the char- 
lotte onto a dish, dust with powdered sugar and serve. 

474. Charlotte of Pineapple. — ^Line a form with bread the 
same as Charlotte of Apples, No. 1 ; pare and cut into fine pieces 1 
large pineapple ; boil 1 pound sugar with 1 cup water, add the pine- 
apple and boil 20 minutes ; remove the fruit with a skimmer, boil the 
syrup a little longer and then set aside to cool ; put the pineapple in the 
form with 2 tablespoonfuls crab apple jelly laid in small pieces 
between, pour over a little of the syrup, cover with bread and bake 40 
minutes ; when done turn the charlotte onto a dish and pour the 
remaining syrup over it. 

475* Charlotte h la polonaise. — Cut a large stale sponge 
cake into slices H inch in thickness and pour over each slice a little 
maraschino or Madeira wine ; spread the bottom slice thickly with 
cream frangipane (see Cream), lay over this another slice, spread 
again with cream and continue until the cake has its original form 
again ; set the cake onto a dish ; beat the whites of 6 eggs to a stiff 
froth, spread it on thickly over the cake, dust with powdered sugar 
and set for a few minutes in a cool oven ; serve with sabayon sauce 
made as follows :— Place a saucepan over the fire with H cup sugar, 
H bottle Rhine wine, the peel and juice of 1 lemon, H tcaspoon- 
ful cornstarch, 1 whole egg and the yolks of 3 } beat this with an 
e^g beater over the fire till nearly boiling ; remove instantly, con- 
tinue the beating for a few minutes longer, pour the sauce into a 
Bauoiere and serve with the charlotte. 
9 



130 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

476. Charlotte Bnsse^ No. 1. — Cover the bottom of a roand 
form with white paper ; split and trim 1 pound lady fingers and fit 
them neatly in the bottom and sides of form ; whip 1 quart cream 
to a stiff froth and add 5 tablespoonf uls powdered sugar and 1 H 
teaspoonfuls vanilla extract; fill cream into the form, cover 
with the cakes laid close together and set on ice till wanted ; when 
ready to serve turn the charlotte russe onto a glass dish, remove 
the paper and serve. 

477. Charlotte Bnsse^ No. 2. — Boil Soups milk with a pinch 
of salt, }i tablespoonf ul butter and H cup sugar ; mix 4 tablespoon- 
f uls cornstarch with 1 cup cold milk ; stir this into the boiling milk 
and continue boiling for a few minutes ; remove from the fire ; beat 
up the yolks of 4 eggs and mix them with the cornstarch ; when 
nearly cold beat the whites to a stiff froth, stir them lightly through 
the custard and flavor with IH teaspoonfuls vanilla; put a round 
piece of paper in the bottom of a mould; then line the bottom and 
sides with lady fingers, fill in the cold custard, lay the cakes closely 
together on top and set on ice till wanted ; when ready to serve 
turn the charlotte russe onto a glass dish and serve with vanilla 
sauce. 

478. Charlotte & la russe. — Cover the bottom of a round 
form with white paper and line the inside of it with sponge cake ; 
cut the cake for the bottom into 3-comered pieces, lay them with 
the points towards the center and let them lap over on one another ; 
cut the pieces for the sides as long as the height of form and about 
1 H inches wide ; cut them a little slanting on one side towards the 
top, fit them in firmly close to one another and fill the form with 
the f ollo\nng cream : — Soak 1 ounce gelatine in a little cold water ; 
place a saucepan with 1 pint milk, the yolks of 6 eggs, 1 small cup 
sugar and 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla over the fire and stir till nearly 
boiling ; remove from the fire, add the gelatine and stir till cold ; 
when it begins to thicken add 1 pint whipped cream and finish tlfe 
same as in foregoing recipe. If cream is not handy beat the 6 
whites to a stiff froth and add them instead of it. 



RICE PUDDINGS, ETC. 131 

479. Charlotte h la rnsse (with preseryed or stewed 

Pears). — Prepare the milk with gelatine and cream the same as in 
foregoing recipe ; cover the bottom of a round deep dish with pre- 
served or stewed pears, also lay some pears on the side of form, 
pour in the milk mixture and set on ice till cold ; when ready to 
serve beat the whites to a stiff froth and add 2 tablespoonf uls sugar 
and H tcaspoonf ul vanilla ; turn the charlotte onto a dish and spread 
the beaten whites over it ; serve with cold strawberry sauce. This 
may be made of preserved peaches, apricots or any other kind of 
fruit in the same manner. 

480. Snow Eggs. — Beat the whites of 6 eggs to a stiflf froth 
and add 3 tablespoonf uls powdered sugar ; put a wide saucepan with 
milk and 1 tablespoonf ul sugar over the fire ; as soon as the milk 
boils set with a tablespoon large oval-shaped dumplings from the 
mixture into the milk, draw saucepan to side of stove, cover and let 
it stand for a few minutes ; then turn them over, let the milk come 
to a boil again, draw it to the side and cover ; after a few minutes 
transfer the dumplings with a skimmer to a sieve and set aside to 
cool ; prepare a crdme f ran9aise au chocolat or vanille (see Cream) 
in a plain form ; when cold turn the cream onto a dish, lay the snow 
eggs in a circle around it and serve with vanilla sauce. 



RICE PUDDINGS AND DISHES MADE OP 

RICE POR DESSERT. 

481. To Prepare Rice Flour. — Pick out all the yellow ker- 
nels of a quantity of .rice and wash it several times in warm water, 
rubbing it well between the fingers ; drain the water off and pour 
boiling water over it ; let it stand until nearly cold ; then pour it 
into a colander and pour cold water over it ; when well drained rub 
the rice between a towel, spread out on shallow tin pans or on 
thick brown paper and let it dry in a lukewarm oven ; when com- 
pletely dry pound it to a powder in a wedged wooden mortar; it 
may then be put away in jars for use ; or pound the rice while wet, 



132 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

then dry and rub it through a sieve. Another way is to grind the 
rice in a coffee mill. 

482. Bice Beignets. — Wash H pound rice, put it with cold 
water over the fire and boil for a few minutes ; drain in a colander 
and rinse with cold water ; return the rice to saucepan and add 5 
cups milk, 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, H tablespoonful butter and H 
teaspoonf ul salt ; boil until tender ; then mix it with 3 well beaten 
eggs ; spread it evenly a finger thick onto buttered tin pans and set 
aside ; when cold cut the rice into rounds or square pieces, dip them 
in beaten egg and bread crumbs and fry in boiling lard ; serve with 
wine or fruit sauce. Some finely chopped almonds may be boiled 
in the rice. 

483, Bice Pears. — Parboil }i pound rice in water, drain in a 
colander and rinse with cold water; return it to the saucepan, add 
1 pint milk, a little salt, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 tablespoonful 
butter, a little grated lemon peel and boil slowly till done ; remove 
the rice from the fire ; when cooled off add the yolks of 3 eggs and 
1 tablespoonful finely chopped almonds ; spread this rice onto a long 
dish and when cold divide it into equal parts with a spoon the size 
of an egg ; form them into the shape of a pear and press a preserved 
cherry or a little marmalade in the center of each ; roll them first 
into fine bread crumbs, then into the beaten white of egg ; then roll 
again in the bread crumbs and fry them a light brown in boiling 
lard ; put a small piece of cinnamon in the end of each piece, to 
form the stem, and serve hot with wine sauce. 

484. Bice Beignets (witli Cliocolate). — Prepare H pound 

rice the same as in foregoing recipe without the butter and add 
while hot H pound grated chocolate ; spread the mixture evenly a 
finger thick onto buttered tins and when cold cut it into small 
rounds with a wineglass; dip them into beaten egg and bread 
crumbs and fry in boiling lard ; dust them with sugar and serve 
without sauce. 

485. Bice Boiled with Baisins. — ^Place a saucepan with 1 
cup rice over the fire, cover with cold water and boil for a few 



BICE PUDDINGS, ETC. 133 

minutes; drain in a colander and rinse with cold water; retam the 
rice to saucepan again, add 1 quart milk, H teaspoonful salt, 1 
tablespoonf ul sugar and boil 20 minutes ; then add J4 pound well 
cleansed seedless raisins and boil till done ; serve dusted with sugar ; 
or boil the rice in water instead of milk, add very little sugar,, 
the raisins and a little salt and serve with meat. 

486. Rice Coteletten, — Boil H pound rice in water 5 min- 
utes, drain in a colander and rinse with cold water ; return it to the 
fire and boil in milk with a little salt till tender and thick ; when 
cold mix it with 2 eggs and 2 ounces melted butter ; form the rice 
into cotelettens, brush over with egg, sprinkle with fine bread 
crumbs and fry in H butter and H lard a light brown ; dust them 
with sugar and serve with stewed fruit. If the cotelettes are to be 
sweet add some sugar, finely chopped almonds, the grated rind of 1 
lemon, a little rum or rose water and fry the same way as above 
recipe ; served with wine, lemon, cream, chocolate or fruit sauce. 

487. Bice i, la Creole. — ^Parboil H pound rice in water and 
drain and rinse with cold water ; boil it in IH quarts sweet cream 
or milk and a little salt; when done sweeten with 2 tablespoonfuls 
sugar and flavor with 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract ; in the mean- 
time put 2 tablespoonfuls sugar in a pan and let it roast to a cara- 
mel, stirring constantly; dissolve it with a little water; add this to 
the rice, put on a round flat dish, sprinkle with sugar and hold a red 
hot shovel over for a few minutes to glaze it. 

488. Lemon Bice. — Place a saucepan with H cup rice over 
the fire, boil 5 minutes and drain and rinse with cold water; re- 
turn the rice to saucepan, add 1 pint milk, H teaspoonful salt and 
boil until tender; when done add 2 tablespoonfuls sugar; put it in- 
to a blanc- mange mould and let it stand till cold; peel a lemon 
very thin, cut the peel into shreds about Ji inch in length and 
as fine as possible, put them into a saucepan, cover with water and 
boil Ji hour, changing the water 3 times ; lest they should be bitter 
pour about 1 teacupf ul fresh water upon them ; squeeze and strain 
the juice of the lemon, add it with 1 cup sugar to the water and 



134 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

shreds and let it stew gently for H hour; then set aside to 
cool ; having turned out the jellied rice into a glass dish, pour the 
syrup gradually over it, taking care that the little shreds of the 
peel are equally distributed over the whole. 

489. Rice k la fran^aiso. — Put !4 pound well washed rioe 
over the fire with cold water, boil 3 minutes, drain in a colan- 
der and rinse with cold water ; return the rice to saucepan, add 5 
cups milk, H teaspoonful salt, ^ tablespoonf nl butter and boil till 
nearly done ; then add 8 finely pounded bitter macaroons, 2 table- 
spoonfuls finely cut candied orange peel, H cup preserved cherries 
freed from the pits and cut fine and a little orange water; put the 
rice when done on a round flat dish, sprinkle with sugar, hold a red 
hot shovel over to glaze and serve with wine sauce. 

490. Bice Cherry. — ^Prepare 1 quart cherry sauce as follows: — 
Boil 1 pound sour cherries in 1 quart water, crack some of the stones 
so as to obtain the flavor from the pits and add a piece of cinnamon, 
the peel of 1 lemon, H pint wine and a few pounded bitter almonds ; 
sugar to taste ; when done stir it through a fine sieve, return the 
sauce to saucepan and add i4 pound rice which has been previously 
well washed and boiled in water with a little salt for 5 minutes ; 
then drain and rinse with cold water ; boil the rice in the cherry 
sauce till tender; remove from the fire, mix it with the yolks of 6 
eggs and when cold add the whites beaten to a stiff froth ; rinse out 
a mould with cold water, sprinkle the inside with granulated sugar, 
fill in the rice and set it on ice for 2 hours ; then serve with or with- 
out sweet cream or vanilla sauce. 

491. Poor Man's Bice Pudding. — ^Place a saucepan with 3 
tablespoonfuls rice and cold water over the fire, boil 5 minutes, 
drain the rice in a sieve and rinse with cold water ; put the rice in a 
pudding dish with 1 quart milk, H teaspoonful salt, 3 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar and 1 teaspoonful essence of lemon ; bake in a slow oven 
till the rice is real soft and serve when cold. 

492. Bice Custard Pudding.^-Place in a saucepan 3H 
tablespoonfuls rice, cover with cold water, boil 5 minutes, drain in 



RICE PUDDINGS, ETC. 135 

a colander and rinse with cold water; return it to saucepan, add 1 
pint milk, H teaspoonful salt and boil till tender; when cold mix it 
with 3 well beaten eggs, 3 tablespoonf uls sugar,- 1 pint milk and a 
teaspoonful of lemon essence ; put this into a pudding dish, lay 1 
tablespoonf ul butter in small bits on top of it, grate nutmeg over 
and bake till the custard is set ; H cup seedless raisins may be added 
to the pudding if liked ; serve without sauce. 

493. Bice Pudding (Minutatim). — ^Place a saucepan with H 
pound rice covered with cold water over the fire, let it boil a few 
minutes, pour into a colander and rinse with cold water ; return rice 
to saucepan, add 1 pint milk, }4 teaspoonful salt, H tablespoonful 
butter and boil slowly till tender ; transfer the rice to a dish and 
when cold mix it with 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, )i cup milk, the 
finely chopped peel of 1 lemon, the yolks of 3 eggs and lastly the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth ; butter some small cups or moulds, 
line them with a few pieces of citron cut into small, thin slices, fill 
the cups 3 parts full with the rice mixture and bake in the oven ; 
when done turn them onto a long dish, with a little jelly onto each 
one, and serve with lemon or fruit sauce. 

494. Rice Snowballs. — ^Put 1 cup rice covered with cold 
water over the fire, boil 5 minutes, drain in a colander and rinse 
with cold water ; return rice to saucepan, add t quart milk, a little 
butter, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, K teaspoonful salt and boil slowly 
till tender ; add a flavoring of essence of almonds ; when the. rice is 
done put into teacups and let it remain till cold ; then turn the rice 
out in a glass dish, pour over a cold custard and on the top of each 
ball place a small piece of bright colored preserves or jelly. Note, — 
The custard may be served separate in a saucer with the balls, but 
the flavoring of it should correspond with the rice. Vanilla or 
lemon essence may be used instead of almond. 

495. Cold Bice Flonr Pudding.— Let 1 ^ pints milk come 
to a boil, add 4 tablespoonfuls rice flour, mix with H pint cold 
milk and stir for 10 minutes over the fire ; beat up the yolks of 5 
eggs and add them with 2 tablespoonfuls orange water to the rice 



136 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

mixture; add lastly the whites beaten to a stiff froth; rinse out a 
mould with water; sprinkle with coarse sugar, pour in the pudding 
and put the form either on ice or in cold water; when cold turn it 
onto a dish and serve with fruit sauce. 

496. Bice Soufl^e. — Place a saucepan with 1 cup milk and % 
tablespoonf ul butter over the fire ; when it boils mix 1 cup rice flour 
with milk, add it to the boiling milk and stir constantly ; continue 
stirring until it forms into a smooth paste and loosens itself from 
the bottom of saucepan ; transfer the rice mixture to a dish to cool ; 
stir 1 tablespoonful butter to a cream and add alternately the yolks 
of 5 eggs, 5 tablespoonf uls sugar and the rice paste ; add lastly the 
grated rind of 1 lemon and the 5 whites beaten to a stiff froth ; pour 
the whole into a buttered soufl^e or pudding dish and bake % hour 
in a moderate oven ; all soufl^es should be served immediately on 
being taken out of the oven, or they will sink and be nothing more 
than an ordinary pudding ; when done take it out, sprinkle pow- 
dered sugar over and send the soufl^e to table in the dish in which 
it was baked, either with a napkin pinned around or inclosed in a 
more ornamental dish ; serve with wine, cream, raspberry or cherry 
sauce. 

497. Bice Flour Pudding (colored). — Place a saucepan with 
2 cups milk, 4 tablespoonf uls sugar, the grated rind of 1 lemon and 
3i teaspoonf ul salt over the fire ; as soon as it boils mix 4 tablespoon- 
f uls rice flour with 1 cup milk, stir into the boiling milk and stir con- 
stantly about 10 minutes ; set the saucepan into a vessel of hot water, 
to keep warm ; place another saucepan over the fire with 3 cups 
fruit juice, % currant and % raepberry; when it boils mix 4 table- 
spoonfuls rice flour with 1 cup claret, add it with 1 Ji cups sugar to 
the boiling juice and boil, stirring constantly, till contents form a 
smooth paste ; then take a handsome form, brush the inside with 
almonds or fine olive oil, sprinkle with coarse sugar and fill the 
rice mixture in alternate layers with a wet spoon into the form — ^first 
the white, then the red, and so on until form is filled ; smooth each 
layer evenly with the wet spoon ; in serving turn it out carefully 



RICE PUDDINGS, ETC. 137 

and lay a border of whipped cream around it. This makes a very 
handsome dish. Half the above quantities will be sufficient for a 
family of 8 persons. 

498. Rose Rice Pudding. — Place a saucepan with 1 cup 
water and 2 cups currant or raspberry juice over the fire, add a 
piece of cinnamon and when it boils mix 4 tablespoonf uls rice flour 
with 1 cup water ; add it to the boiling water, stirring constantly, 
and boil about 10 minutes ; remove the cinnamon and sweeten with 
sugar to taste ; rinse out a form with water, sprinkle with sugar, 
pour in the contents and place the form on ice ; when cold turn it 
out on a dish and lay whipped cream flavored with vanilla around 
it ; or serve with vanilla sauce. 

499. Cold Rice Pudding (with Almonds) .—Put H pound 

rice covered with cold water over the fire, boil a few minutes and 
drain in a colander ; return the rice to saucepan, add 1 quart milk, 
H teaspoonf ul salt and boil till nearly tender ; then add 1 cup finely 
chopped almonds, 2 tablespoonf uls sugar and boil till done ; rinse 
out a melon-shaped form, sprinkle with coarse sugar, pour in the 
rice when nearly cold and set it aside to cool ; in serving turn it out 
on a glass dish and serve with cold cream or fruit sauce. 

500. Rice Snowballs (with Apples). — Place a saucepan with 
14 pound rice covered with cold water over the fire, boil 5 minutes, 
drain in a colander and rinse with cold water ; return rice to sauce- 
pan, add H teaspoonf ul salt, 1 quart milk and boil till nearly done ; 
then set aside to cool ; pare and core 6 large apples (greenings or 
pippins are the best) and put into each apple a little butter, sugar 
and finely chopped lemon peel ; take 6 small, square pieces of white 
muslin, such as is used for apple dumplings, dip into hot water and 
dust them with flour ; spread over each cloth a layer of boiled rice 
about H inch thick, put an apple in the center of each one, fold the 
cloth with the rice around it so that the apple is covered with the 
rice, drop them into boiling water and boil H hour ; serve with wine 
or lemon sauce. 



138 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

601. Bice kalte Shale (with Wine).— Boil 1 cup sugar with 

3 cupB water and the peel of 1 lemon for 10 minutes , when cold add 
1 bottle white wine, the juice of 2 lemons and ^i pound rice which 
has been boiled in 2 waters till tender; place the kalte Shale on ice 
till wanted. 

602. Bice Badetzky. — Put M pound rice covered with cold 

water over the iire, boil 5 minutes, drain in a colander and rinse 
with cold water ; return rice to saucepan, cover with water, add %, 
teaspoonf ul salt and boil till done and thick ; in the meantime melt 
}i tablespoonf ul butter and add 4 tablespoonf uls sugar ; stir this 
over the fire till light brown ; then add 3 tablespoonf uls boiling 
water and the juice of 1 orange and 1 lemon ; let it boil up, add the 
rice and let it remain a little longer over the fire ; remove from, the 
fire, mix it with 3 tablespoonfuls rum and put it on a glass dish in 
layers with fruit marmalade between it; let the last layer be rice; 
cover with the whites of 3 eggs beaten to a froth, sweeten with 
sugar and flavor with vanilla ; sprinkle over some finely chopped 
almonds, set it for a few minutes in oven, to take color, and serve 
when cold. 

603. Bice (with Strawberries)* — Parboil % pound rice, 

drain in a colander and nnse with cold water ; return the rice to 
saucepan, cover it with water, add the juice of 2 lemons, the peel 
of 1 and boil till done, but in such a manner that the kernels remain 
whole ; let it drain on a sieve ; then put it in a dish and pour over 1 
pint boiling sugar syrup ; when cold arrange the rice on a glass dish 
in the form of a pyramid with layers of sugared strawberries be- 
tween and decorate the whole with large strawberries. 

604. Bice (with Apples). — Parboil % pound rice in water, 

drain in a colander and rinse with cold water ; then place it over 
the fire with 1 quart milk, add M teaspoonf ul salt, a piece of cinna- 
mon and boil till tender ; transfer the rice to a dish and set it aside 
to cool ; in the meantime pare and cut fine 6 large apples (either 
greenings, pippins or Baldwin's) ; put them on a soup plate, sprin« 
kle with sugar, a little cinnamon, the grated rind of 1 lemon and 



RICE PUDDINGS, ETC. 139 

a pinch of cloves ; cover them with another plate and let them stand 
nntil the rice is cold ; next butter a deep pudding dish and put the 
apples in the bottom of it ; then stir 2 tablespoonf uls butter with 
2 tablespoonf uls sugar to a cream and add alternately the rice (by 
spoonfuls) and the yolks of 5 eggs, a little cinnamon and the fine- 
ly chopped peel of 1 lemon ; add lastly the whites beaten to a stiff 
froth ; spread the rice evenly over the apples, put small pieces of 
butter over and then sprinkle over some sugar and finely chopped 
almonds ; bake 1 hour in a medium hot oven ; serve with or with- 
out wine sauce. 

505. Biee (with Marmalade). — Boil H pound rice the same 

as in foregoing recipe and press it through a sieve ; when cold stir 
H pound butter with H cup sugar to a cream and add by degrees 
the yolks of 6 eggs, the rice and lastly the whites beaten to a stiff 
froth ; fill this mixture into a well buttered pudding dish with layers 
of fruit marmalade between the rice (let the last layer be rice) and 
. bake in a medium hot oven ^ hour ; send to 'table sprinkled with 
sugar and serve with or without sauce. 

606. Biee (dressed with Sugar and Cinnamon). — Place a 

saucepan with 1 cup rice covered with cold water over the fire and 
boil 5 minutes ; pour the rice into a sieve to drain and rinse with 
fresh water ; return it to saucepan, add H teaspoonf ul salt, 1 quart 
milk and boil slowly till done ; if the rice should be too thick add 
more milk ; when done fill the rice into a deep dish, lay small pieces 
of butter all over the top and sprinkle thickly with sugar into which 
a little cinnamon has been mixed ; serve as a dessert. 

607. Fine Bice Padding (with Oranges) .—Wash H pound 

rice in several waters, put in a saucepan covered with water and 
boil 10 minutes ; drain in a colander and rinse with water ; boil H 
pint white wine with H pound sugar, the grated rind and juice of 1 
lemon and ^ pint water for 5 minutes ^ add the rice and boil till 
tender ; when done transfer the rice to a dish to cool ; place a sauce- 
pan in a vessel of hot water with H teaspoonf ui cornstarch, H 
pint white wine, 3 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, the juice of 1 



140 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

lemon and H ounce gelatine soaked in cold water; stir this oyer 
t£e fire with an egg beater until just about to boil ; remove in- 
stantly from the fire and stir for a few minutes longer ; then set it 
aside to cool ; rinse a nicely shaped mould with cold water, sprinkle 
with coarse sugar and set it into cracked ice ; put in first a layer of 
rice, then a layer of oran£;e8 which have been peeled, cut into slices 
and freed of their pits, sprinkle with sugar, pour some of the wine 
sauce over it and continue alternately with the layers until the form 
is filled ; let it stand in ice over night ; in serving turn the rice onto 
a dish and garnish with sugared oranges. 

608. Fried Bice. — Place H pound washed rice in a saucepan 
with cold water over the fire and boil 5 minutes ; drain in a colan- 
der, return rice to saucepan, add 1 quart milk, ^ teaspoonful salt 
and boil slowly till tender ; when done remove from the fire, mix 
with the yolks of 2 eggs and spread it on a fiat dish ; when cold cut 
it into strips 1 inch wide and 2 inches long, brush them over with 
the beaten whites of eggs, sprinkle with fine bread crumbs or 
cracker dust and fry in }i butter and H lard to a fine golden color ; 
serve on a hot dish dusted with sugar. 

509. Rice Pudding (baked). — Soak H pound rice for 1 hour 
in water, drain and boil it in water 15 minutes; pour the rice onto 
a sieve and after draining it well return to saucepan ; add 1 quart 
milk, ?i teaspoonful salt and boil till tender ; add 3 ounces butter, 
/i pound sugar and the grated rind of 1 lemon ; when cold mix it 
with the yolks of 6 eggs, H cup finely chopped almonds and 
3 tablespoonf uls finely cut citron ; add lastly the whites beaten 
to a stiflP froth ; fill the whole into a well buttered pudding dish 
and bake 1 hour in a medium hot oven ; serve with fruit sauce. 

510. Boiled Bice Pudding. — Place a saucepan with H pound 
rice covered with cold water over the fire and let it boil 5 minutes; 
then pour it into a colander and rinse with cold water; return the 
rice to saucepan, add 1 quart milk, a piece of cinnamon, the peel of 
1 lemon, 1 teaspoonful salt and boil slowly till tender (but the ker- 
nels must be whole) ; when cold stir H pound butter with 1 cup 



EICE PUDDINGS, ETC. 141 

sugar to a cream and add 1 cup finely chopped almonds, 1 cup 
stoneless raisins, 1 tablespoonful finely cut preserved orange peel 
and the yolks of 8 eggs ; add the rice and lastly the 8 whites beaten 
to a stiff froth ; fill the mixture into a well buttered pudding form 
and boil 2 hours ; serve with wine cream sauce made as follows : — 
Place a saucepan over the fire with 1 pint white wine, the yolks of 
3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful cornstarch, the peel of 1 lemon and 4 table- 
spoonfuls sugar ; stir this with an egg beater until just about to 
boil ; then remove it instantly from the fire, beat the whites to a 
stiff froth and mix it with the sauce ; or send cherry sauce to table 
with it (see Sauce). This pudding is sufficient for 12 persons. If 
a smaller one is desired use half the quantities. 

611. Rice Flonr Pudding. — Take 1 pint milk, 2 small cups 
rice flour, 3 tablespoonfuls butter, the grated rind of 1 lemon, 8 
eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 2 
tablespoonfuls finely cut citron and H teaspoonful salt; put the 
milk with H of the butter over the fire ; mix the rice flour with a 
little cold water or milk, add the salt and when the milk boils stir 
the flour into it ; stir until the contents have formed into a smooth 
paste and loosens itself from the bottom of saucepan ; remove it 
from the fire and set aside to cool ; stir the remaining butter to a 
cream and add alternately the sugar, the yolks and the rice dough 
(by a spoonful at a time) ; add the lemon, the citron and lastly the 
whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth; blend all well together; have 
ready a pudding form well buttered and sprinkled with bread 
crumbs, fill it with the mixture and boil 2 hours ; serve with wine 
or cream sauce the same as in foregoing recipe ; sufficient for a 
family of 10 persons, 

512. Biee Flour Pudding (baked).— Place a saucepan with 
1 pint milk and 1 tablespoonful butter over the fire and when it 
boils stir into the boiling milk sufficient rice flour to make a smooth 
dough that loosens itself from the bottom of saucepan ; then remove 
it from the fire and set aside to cool ; stir 1 tablespoonful butter 
to a cream and add by degrees the yolks of 5 eggs, 5 tablespoonfuls 
sugar, the grated rind of 1 lemon, the dough of rice flour and lastly 



142 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

the stiff froth of the 5 eggs; bake H hour; serve with wine 
cream sauce. 

513. Biee Pudding (baked). — Place a saucepan with H 
pound rice covered with cold water over the fire, let it boil a 
few minutes, pour the rice into a colander and rinse with cold water; 
return it to saucepan, add 1 quart milk, H teaspoonf ul salt, 1 table- 
spoonful butter, a piece of cinnamon, the peel of 1 lemon an4 boil 
slowly till tender ; when done remove the rice from fire and let it 
cool a little ; stir the yolks of 4 eggs with 3 tablespoonf uls sugar 
to a cream ; mix it with the rice, remove the lemon arid cinnamon 
and add lastlv the whites beaten to a stiff froth ; fill the mixture in- 
to a form which has been well buttered and sprinkled with bread 
crumbs and bake 1 hour in a medium hot oven ; when done turn the 
pudding onto a round plate and serve with fruit sauce. 

514. Biee Pudding (with Peaches). — Cut 12 large peaches 

in halves and peel and boil them in H pound sugar syrup ; crack the 
stones, take out the pits, remove the brown skins and boil the pits 
with the peaches ; when done transfer the fruit to a dish and set 
aside to cool; put H pound rice with cold water over the fire and 
let it boil up;diBin in a sieve and rinse with cold water; return 
rice to saucepan with 1 pint sweet cream and boil till tender, but in 
such a way as to leave the kernels remain whole ; when cold mix the 
rice with 5 tablespoonfuls -sugar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract, H 
pint maraschino and 1 H ounces gelatine ; put the dish in cracked 
ice and stir 1 pint whipped cream through it ; fill into a form, cover 
tightly, pack it in cracked ice with rock salt sprinkled between 
it so that the whole form is completely covered with ice; let it re- 
main thus for 2 hours ; in serving dip the form in hot water, turn 
the pudding onto a round dish, lay the peaches all over it and the 
pits on top of peaches ; pour the syrup around it and serve. Rice 
with apples, pears, apricots or any kind of fruit may be made in 
the same manner. 

515. Bice Pudding & la Palerino.— Put H pound rice with 

cold water over the fire, boil 3 minutes, pour it into a sieve and 



RICE PUDDINGS, ETC, 143 

rinse with cold water; return the rice to saucepan, add 1 bottle 
white wine, the juice of 4 oranges and ^i pound sugar and boil 
slowly till tender ; add 1 % ounces gelatine which has been soaked 
in cold water and stir both till it begins to thicken ; in the mean- 
time cut some preserved pineapples into small dice ; boil 6 ounces 
seedless raisins in sugar syrup till tender ; put them with yi pint 
preserved cherries on a sieve to drain; thin }i pound apricot 
marmalade with a little water, add it with the pineapples, raisins and 
cherries to the rice and lastly stir 1 quart whipped cream through 
it ; fill the mixture into a pudding form, pack it in ice and rock salt 
and let freeze for 4 hours ; in serving dip the form in hot water, 
turn its contents onto a round dish, lay preserved apricots around it 
and put on top some whipped cream, so as to make this fine dish as 
tempting as possible. 

516. Bice & la Malte. — Boil 1 pound rice 5 minutes, drain in 
a sieve and rinse with cold water ; return rice to saucepan, cover 
with water and boil till tender, but in such a way that the kernels 
remain whole; pour the rice in a sieve and let the water drain off; 
rub off the skin of 6 oranges with loaf sugar and pound the sugar 
fine ; then peel the oranges, divide them into quarters, remove the 
pits and lay the fruit on a dish ; sprinkle 6 tablespoonf uls sugar over 
and set them aside in a cool place ; press the juice from 6 oranges ; put 
the rice with 1 % pints white wine in saucepan, add H pound sugar 
and boil till thick ; add the orange juice and the juice of 1 lemon, 
let it boil a few minutes longer, remove from the fire and stir the 
orange sugar into it ; rinse out a form with white wine, pour in the 
rice mixture and when cold put it on ice for 3 hours ; in serving 
turn it out on a round dish and garnish with the orange quarters ; 
boil the juice of 3 oranges with ^ cup sugar and H cup water to a 
syrup ; when cold pour some over the rice and serve the rest in a 
sauciere with the pudding. 

517. Bice Pudding i la Wellington.— Boil K pound rice 

for 15 minutes in water, drain it in a sieve and rinse with cold 
water ; return rice to saucepan, add % bottle Rhine wine, the peel 
of 1 lemon, the juice of 3 lemons and sweeten with sugar; when 



1 44 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

done pour it into a border form and set it in a cool place ; in serv- 
ing turn it onto a round dish, decorate with preserved or stewed 
cherries and pour a little white syrup over the rice ; have ready a 
plombi^re of frozen raspberry ice in a high pointed form and put it 
in the center of the rice. 

518. Biee Pudding (with Pineapple). — ^Take a sponge cake 
(one that was baked in a round form), hollow it out about IM 
inches, pour some Madeira wine over and sprinkle with finely 
chopped almonds ; set it in a cool oven to dry a little ; then place it 
on a round dish with a fine napkin and cut it down to ^ its height 
into 12 pieces ; boil H pound rice 5 minutes in water, drain and 
rinse with cold water ; return rice to saucepan and boil it in water 
till nearly done ; pour it onto a sieve and drain off the water ; then 
return it again to saucepan with some pineapple syrup and boil till 
done ; mix a few tablespoon fuls finely cut pineapple with it, fill the 
rice (half warm) into the sponge cake and decorate with slices of 
pineapple and preserved red cherries; serve with apricot sauce. 
Preserved pineapple may be used for this. 

619. Rice Pudding (with Apples). — Put )i pound rice in a 

saucepan with cold water, let it boil 5 minutes, drain in a colander 
and rinse with cold water ; return rice to saucepan, add 1 pint milk, 
}4 tablespoonful butter, H teaspoonful salt and boil till tender; 
pour into a dish to cool ; stir 2 tablespoonf uls butter to a cream with 
4 tablespoon fuls sugar and add by degrees the yolks of 6 eggs and 
the rice ; add 2 tablespoonf uls rum and a finely minced lemon peel ; 
beat the whites to a stiff froth and add them to the mixture ; pare 
and cut into quarters 8 large tart apples; put peels and cores in a 
saucepan, cover with water, place over the fire and boil till tender; 
strain through a jelly bag; put the liquor in a saucepan and boil 5 
minutes ; add 1 cup sugar, the rind and juice of 1 lemon and when 
it boils put in the apples ; boil nearly done ; remove them with a 
skimmer and put into a dish to cool ; butter a pudding dish and 
sprinkle with bread crumbs; put in H the rice mixture, lay over 
this the apples and over them the remaining ^ of rice ; lay a few 
pieces of butter on top, sprinkle with a little sugar and cinnamon 



RIOE PUDDINGS, ETC. 146 

and bake 1 honr in a medium hot oven ; serve with the syrap. Half 
the above quantities will be sufficient for a family of 6. 

620. Bice Pudding (with Cherries).— Put % pound rioe in 

a saucepan, cover with cold water, boil 3 minutes, drain in a colan- 
der and rinse with cold water; return rice to saucepan, add 5 cupM 
milk, H teaspoonf ul salt and boil slowly till tender (the kernels 
must remain whole) ; transfer it to a dish and when cold stir ^i 
pound butter to a cream, add alternately 4 tablespoonf uls sugar, 
the yolks of 6 eggs, the rice and lastly the whites beaten to a stiff 
froth ; butter a deep pudding dish and sprinkle with bread crumbs ; 
put in a layer of rice mixture, then a layer of cherries which have 
been previously freed from the pits, stewed with sugar and drained 
on a sieve ; or take preserved cherries, drain off the liquor and put 
them between the layers of rice till the dish is filled ; let the last 
layer be rice; bake 1 hour in a medium hot oven; when done decor* 
ate the top with preserved or stewed cherries and send a cherry 
sauce to table with it. Rice pudding with apricots or peaches may 
be made the same way. 

621. Bice Pudding (with Almonds). — ^Prepare the rice the 

same as in foregoing recipe ; when cold stir }i pound butter to a 
cream, add 3^ pound sugar, the grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 cup finely 
chopped or ground almonds, the yolks of 6 eggs, the rice and lastly 
the whites beaten to a stiff froth ; fill the mixture into a well but- 
tered form and bake 1 hour; when done dust it with powdered sugar 
and serve with fruit or wine sauce. 

522. Lemon Bice Pudding. — ^Let K cup rice come to a boil, 

drain in a colander and rinse with cold water; return the rice to 
saucepan, add 1 cup milk, 3i teaspoonf ul salt and boil till tender; 
when done pour it into a dish and set aside to cool ; stir 1 table- 
spoonful butter to a cream, add the yolks of 4 eggs, 2 tablespoonf uls 
sugar, then the rice and the grated rind of 1 lemon ; whip the juice 
of 1 lemon with the whites of 4 eggs to a froth, stir into the rice 
mixture, put it in a well buttered pudding dish and bake }i hour; 

serve with wine sauce. 
10 



146 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

523. Bice Scallop. — ^Place a Baacepan with H, pound rice and 
cold water over the fire, boil 5 minutes and drain in a colander; re- 
turn rice to saucepan, add 1 quart milk, H teaspoonf ul salt, a 
small piece of butter and boil till rice is soft and thick ; pare, core 
and slice fine 10 large apples, put them in a saucepan with 1 table- 
spoonful butter, 2 tablespoonfuls finely cut citron, H cup well 
cleansed currants, % cup sugar and stew slowly until apples are soft ; 
add a cup currant jelly or fruit marmalade and set aside to cool ; 
butter a pudding dish, put in a layer of rice and over it a layer of 
apples ; continue in this way alternately with rice and apples till all 
are used; let the last layer be ^ce; put little pieces of butter all 
over the top of rice and bake ^ hour; serve either hot or cold. 

624. Cream of Bice Flour. — Mix in a saucepan 4 tablespoon- 
fuls rice flour with 1 quart milk and add 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 
ounce finely cut orange peel, the yolks of 6 eggs and the grated 
rind of 1 lemon ; stir this over the fire until it begins to boil ; re- 
move it from the fire, add the whites beaten to a stiff froth and 
serve it when cold in a glass dish ; sprinkle it with sugar, hold a 
red hot shovel over to brown the sugar and serve without sauce. 

626. Bice kalte Shale (with Cream).— Put H pound rice 

with cold water over the fire, boil 5 minutes, drain in a colan- 
der and rinse with cold water; return rice to saucepan and add 1 
quart milk, % teaspoonful salt, a piece of cinnamon and a little 
vanilla and lemon peel ; when done remove peel and cinnamon and 
add the yolks of 4 eggs and 1 quart boiling hot cream ; sweeten to 
taste and serve when cold. Note. — Milk may be substituted for 
cream. 

626. Bice Jelly. — ^Mix H pound rice flour with 1 quart milk 
and add }i pound sugar, }i ounce gelatine which has oeen soaked 
for a few minutes in cold water, 6 pounded bitter almonds and a 
little lemon peel ; stir this over the fire constantly and boil 15 
minutes ; remove lemon peel, fill the mixture into a form which has 
been well rinsed out with cold water and sprinkled with sugar and 



RICE PUDDINGS, ETC. 147 

set the form on Ice to cool ; in serving turn the jelly out onto a 
dish and send fruit syrup to table with it. 

637. Apples with Bice Border. — Place a saucepan with H 
pound rice covered with cold water over the fire, boil a few min- 
utes, drain the rice in a colander and rinse with cold water; then 
return it to saucepan, cover with 1 pint milk and boil till tender 
and thick ; then stir through it carefully 1 tablespoonf ul butter, 3 
tablespoonfuls sugar, the grated rind of H lemon and the yolks of 
2 eggs ; next butter a mould (special moulds are made for rice 
border), fill it with rice and set in a warm place for 10 minutes; 
pare 12 small tart apples, remove the cores without breaking the 
fruit and boil them in sugar syrup with 1 tablespoonful apricot 
marmalade or fruit jelly ; turn the rice border onto a dish and lay 
little pieces of currant jelly on top of it; pile the apples high up in 
the center ; reduce the syrup by boiling a little longer and pour it 
over the apples* Pears, peaches, apricots and cherries the same 
way. Preserved fruit may also be used. 

638. Bice Cream. — Boil 6 ounces parboiled rice in 3 cups 
sweet cream and a little salt till tender; when done mix it with H 
ounce gelatine which has been soaked in cold water; when this is 
well mixed with the rice remove it from the fire, add the well 
beaten yolks of 6 eggs, 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls sugar and when cold 
add 1 glass maraschino and the 6 whites beaten to a stiff froth ; fill 
this into a form and place it on ice to get firm ; in serving turn the 
cream onto a glass dish and garnish with macaroons. 

639. Bice Cream (with Chocolate). — Place 6 ounces well 

washed rice with cold water over the fire, boil for a few minutes, 
drain in a colander and rinse with cold water ; return rice to sauce- 
pan, add 3 cups sweet cream, }i teaspoonful salt and boil till 
tender; then mix with 1 ounce gelatine which has been soaked for 
5 minutes in cold water; also add 6 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 tea- 
spoonful vanilla extract, H pound finely grated chocolate and when 
cold add 1 pint whipped cream ; fill the mixture into a form, bury 
the form in finely cracked ice with a little rock salt sprinkled 



148 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

between and let it remain 4 hours ; in serving dip the form into hot 
water and turn the cream onto a glass dish. Notb. — The choco- 
late may be left out of the cream and a chocolate sauce served with it. 

530. Bice Cream (with Fruit).— Put 6 ounces well washed 
rice with <$old water over the fire, let it boil a few minutes and 
drain and rinse it with cold water; return the rice to saucepan, add 
3 cups sweet cream, a little salt and boil till done; when cold mix 
it with 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, the grated rind of 1 lemon and H 
ounce gelatine soaked in cold water ; when nearly cold add 1 pint 
whipped cream and put the mixture into a form with layers of pre- 
served fruit, such as cherries, peaches, plums, etc. , between it ; set 
the form into a pail with layers of cracked ice and rock salt 
sprinkled between ; the form should be entirely covered with ice ; 
set in a cold place for 4 hours ; in serving turn the cream out of the 
form onto a glass dish and garnish with fruit jelly. 

631. Bice Croquettes (served with Sauce as Dessert).— 

Parboil H pound rice for a few minutes in water and drain in a 
colander; return the rice to saucepan with 1 pint milk, 3 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, H tablespoonf ul butter, }i teaspoonful salt and boil till 
tender ; when done remove it from the fire and mix with the yolks 
of 3 or 4 eggs, the grated rind of 1 lemon and set it aside to cool ; 
form the mixture into balls the size of a walnut, dip them into 
beaten white of eggs, roll them in zwieback crumbs and fry in 
boiling lard ; serve with wine sauce. 

532. Brioche Dough. — Put 1 pound fiour into a dish, add H 
teaspoonful salt, make a hollow in the center, pour 1 cup warm 
milk in which 1 yeast cake has been dissolved into the center, mix 
it with some of the flour and set in a warm place for 1 hour; then 
stir K pound butter to a cream and add by degrees 2 eggs ; mix 
this with the flour and yeast to a soft dough, cover and let it rise to 
double its height in a warm place ; then work it through once more, 
roll it out with a rolling pin about i of an inch in thickness, cut it 
into rounds with a tumbler and put in the center either force meat, 
fruit jelly or rice ; bend them over so that the edges meet ; wet them 



RICE PUDDINGS, ETC. 149 

with beaten egg and press the edges firmly together; set in a warm 
place to rise ; then brush over with beaten egg^ dust with bread 
crumbs and fry in hot lard. 

533. Bice Brioche. — ^Prepare a brioche dough the same as in 
foregoing recipe with the addition of 2 tablespoonf uls sugar and 
the grated rind of 1 lemon ; while this is rising put 1 cup rice in a 
saucepan with cold water over the fire, let it come to a boil, drain 
in a sieve and rinse with cold water ; return the rice to saucepan, add 
1 pint milk, ^ teaspoonf ul salt and boil till tender ; remove it from 
the fire and when cold mix the rice with the beaten whites of 3 eggs, 
3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls finely chopped almonds, 2 
tablespoonf uls finely cut citron and H teaspoonf ul cinnamon ; when . 
the dough has risen to double its height divide it into 2 equal parts 
and roll each part out on a floured board to H inch in thickness ; 
spread over each part an equal portion of the rice, fold together, 
press the edges firmly, so that the rice cannot fall out, shape it in 
the form of a long square and lay in buttered tin pans ; brush over 
with the yolks of the 3 eggs, sprinkle thickly with finely chopped 
almonds and dust with powdered sugar ; set in a warm place and let 
it rise for H hour ; then bake in a medium hot oven about H hour ; 
if the oven should be too hot cover with paper ; serve with the fol- 
lowing sauce : — Stir 2 tablespoonfuls butter with 8 tablespoonfuls 
powdered sugar to a cream and add 2 eggs, a little nutmeg and 4 
tablespoonfuls rum with 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla ; stir until white ; put 
the bowl which holds the mixture into a vessel of boiling water, stir 
over the fire, add gradually 1 cup boiling water, stir to a creamy 
sauce and serve. Note. — Half these quantities will be sufficient 
for a family of 6 persons. 

534. PoTeison (with Prunes). — Stew some dried prunes with 
a stick of cinnamon and lemon peel ; sweeten with sugar and set 
aHide to cool ; remove the pits and chop the prunes fine ; reduce the 
liquor by boiling it down to H^ add the prunes and mix all together; 
grate the crust from 3 or 4 milk rolls, cut them into slices about ^ 
of an inch in thickness, spread each slice with the prunes and lay 2 
pieces together with the prunes between them ; after all the slices 



150 D^;3SERTS AND SALADS. 

have been prepared in this way lay them on a long plate, pour some 
cold milk over and let them stand for H hour; then dip them first 
in beaten egg and then in fine bread crumbs and fry in boiling lard; 
serve them dusted with sugar. 

535. Croquettes of Nadels. — Prepare some finely cut nudels 
with 1 egg and the necessary fiour and boil them in milk with a 
piece of butter, 2 tablespoonf uls sugar and a pinch of salt ; when 
done transfer them to a dish and mix with the yolks of 3 eggs, the 
grated rind of H lemon and 3 bitter macaroons broken into small 
pieces ; set this mixture on ice and when cold form it into round 
balls the size of an egg ; dip them in the white of egg^ then in boil- 
ing lard and fry in boiling lard to a fine brown ; serve with wine or 
fruit sauce. 

636. Apple Croquettes. — ^Prepare a fine apple sauce, press it 
through a sieve and add some finely chopped almonds and a little 
vanilla ; bake some thin pancakes of eggs, milk and flour, spread 
some of the apple sauce over each one, roll them up, turn the ends 
over and fasten them with egg ; dip them first into beaten egg^ then 
into fine zwiebach crumbs and fry in boiling lard to a nice golden 
color ; dust them with powdered sugar and serve with a sauce made 
of apple jelly thinned with vanilla liquor or maraschino. 

537. Nudels (with Jelly). — Boil 2 cups home-made nudels 
in salt water 15 minutes ; then drain in a colander, put the nudels 
in a saucepan with 1 tablespoonful butter and toss them over the 
fire till they are well mixed with the butter ; then put them in a 
glass dish alternately with currant or apple jelly in layers between, 
cover the top with jelly and serve. A cupful of freshly grated 
cocoanut laid over the top of this dish and dotted with small bits 
of jelly is a decided improvement. 

538. Apple Scallop. — 1 pound bread crumbs, ^ cup sugar, 
10 large greening or pippin apples and K cup butter; pare, quar- 
ter and cut the apples into fine slices ; put H of the butter into a 
pudding dish and let it melt ; then put in a layer of bread crumbs 
and over them a thick layer of apples ; sprinkle over some sugar 



COLD PUDDINGS MADE WITH MILK. 151 

and lay little bits of batter over ; continue this way alternately with 
bread crumbs, butter, apples and sugar till all is used ; let the last 
layer be bread with bits of butter on top ; €Over the dish and bake 
H hour; shortly before the scallop is done uncover the dish and 
let it brown a little ; serve either hot or cold without sauce. 

539. Nudel Scallop. — Prepare a nudel dough of 1 egg^H 
teaspoonf ul butter, 1 tablespoonful water, a pinch of salt and suf- 
ficient flour to make a stiff dough ; divide the dough into 4 parts, 
roll each part out on a paste board as thinly as possible and let 
them lay for 15 minutes; then cut each part into long strips IH 
inches in width ; lay 4 strips on top of one another and cut them 
fine, about as thick as a straw ; shake the nudels apart and spread 
them on a board to dry for 1 hour ; then put them into boiling 
salted water, boil 10 minutes and drain in a colander ; pare, core 
and cut into fine slices 10 large greening apples ; put the apples in 
a saucepan with 1 tablespoonful butter and H cup sugar, cover and 
stew gently till they begin to soften ; remove them from fire, add 
H cup apple or currant jelly and set aside to cool ; butter a pudding 
dish and put in a layer of nudels ; lay little bits of butter over and 
put over the nudels a layer of apples ; then nudels again ; continue 
in this way till all is used ; let the last layer be nudels ; mix 3 eggs 
with 1 cup milk, a little sugar and 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla ; pour it 
over the nudels and bake X hour; serve either hot or cold. Note. — 
Stewed prunes, peaches or cherries may be used instead of apples. 
This may be served without sauce. 

COLD PUDDINO-S MADE WITH MILK 
640. Cocoanut Custard Padding^ No. 1. — 2 cups grated 

cocoanut, 1 cup sugar, 5 eggs and 1 quart milk ; beat up the eggs 
to a froth, add the sugar, stir until melted, then add milk and 
cocoanut; butter a pudding dish, pour in the mixture and bake till 
the custard thickens ; the best way to ascertain when pudding is 
done is to place the handle of a teaspoon into the center of the pud- 
ding; if it is thick remove instantly and set aside in a cool place; 



152 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

serve when cold in the same dish in which it was baked, with a nap- 
kin folded around, or place it in an ornamental dish. 

541. Cocoanat Custard Padding^ No. 2.— Boil 3 cups milk 

with 1 cup sugar ; dissolve 2 tablespoonf uls cornstarch in 1 cup cold 
milk and add it to the milk ; continue the boiling for a few minutes 
and remove from fire ; beat up the yolks of 4 eggs and after the 
custard has cooled a little add them to it ; when cold beat the whites 
to a stiff froth and stir them into the custard ; butter a pudding 
dish and put in H the custard and a layer of macaroons ; then a 
thick layer of cocoanut on top into which 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 
have been mixed; bake in the oven to a delicate brown color; serve 
cold without sauce. 

543. Pudding k la Princess. — ^Take 1 pound any kind of 
cake (sponge, pound, cup or raisin cake), which is several days 
old, cut, it into slices and lay them in a glass dish ; put 
on to each slice 1 teaspoonful currant or apple jelly and pour 
h cup sherry wine and the juice of 1 lemon over; soak 1 ounce 
gelatine in 1 cup milk 15 minutes ; place a saucepan over the fire 
with 3 cups milk, M cup sugar, the yolks of 6 eggs and 1 ht tea- 
spoonfuls vanilla extract ; stir this over the fire till nearly boiling ; 
then add the gelatine by degrees, stirring constantly, but do not al- 
low it to boil ; as soon as gelatine is melted remove it from the 
fire, set the saucepan in cold water and stir its contents till cold; 
pour the custard over the cake ; beat the 6 whites to a stiff froth 
and beat into it gradually H cup currant, cranberry or apple jelly ; 
spread this meringue over the custard and dot it with little bits of 
jelly laid on in a pattern. Half the above quantities will be suffi- 
cient for a small family. 

543. Cold Sponge Pudding. — Soak 1 ounce gelatine in 1 
cup milk for 15 minutes; place a saucepan over the fire with the 
yolks of 6 eggs, 3 cups milk, 6 tablespoonfuls sugar, 2 teaspoon- 
f uls vanilla extract and stir with an egg beater till nearly boiling ; 
add by degrees the gelatine, beating constantly ; remove from the 
fire and set aside to cool, stirring it now and then ; when cold and 



COLD PUDDINGS MADE WITH MILK. 163 

beginning to thicken have the whites beaten to a stiff froth and 
stir them lightly through the cream; rinse out a mould with cold 
water, sprinkle the inside with sugar, pour in the mixture and set 
in a cool place to form ; in serving loosen the edge on top with your 
finger and turn the pudding onto a dish; serve with cold fruit or 

claret wine sauce. 

« 

644. Chocolate Pudding. — Soak l ounce gelatine in 1 
cup milk ; boil ^i pound grated chocolate in 1 cup water and 
add 1 pint milk, the yolks of 3 eggs, 5 tablespoonfuls sugar and 
the gelatine ; beat this with an ^^^ beater over the fire till nearly 
boiling ; remove from the fire and set aside to cool, stirring it now 
and then ; when cold and beginning to thicken add the beaten whites 
of 6 eggs ; rinse a form with cold water, sprinkle with sugar, pour 
in the mixture and set aside to form ; serve with vanilla sauce made 
of the 3 remaining yolks. 

545. Sago Pudding. — ^Boil 1 quart milk with a little salt and 
while boiling sprinkle in slowly Ji pound sago ; continue the boiling 
until the sago looks clear and is thick; when done remove the sauce- 
pan to side of stove add 4 tablespoonfuls sugar; beat up the yolks 
of 4 or 5 eggs with a little cold milk, add them to the sago and 
while hot add the whites beaten to a stiff froth; turn it into a jelly 
mould which has previously been rinsed with cold water and sprinkled 
with sugar and place it on ice or in cold water till firm ; serve with 
fruit or vanilla sauce. 

546. Sago Pudding with Almonds is prepared the same as 
in preceding recipe. While the sago is boiling add 1 cup finely chop- 
ped almonds. Walnuts or hazel nuts may be used the same way. 

547. Sago Pudding (Allemande).— Boil 1 quart milk with a 

little salt and while boiling add slowly ^i pound best sago, M cup 
finely chopped almonds and 4 tablespoonfuls sugar; continue the 
boiling for 20 minutes longer, then remove the saucepan to side of 
stove, add the beaten whites of 4 eggs and 1 teaspoonf ul lemon 
extract ; pour the sago into a well rinsed and sugared jelly mould 



154 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

I 

and Het aside to cool ; put the 5 yolks with 3 cups milk, 1 teaspoon- 
f ul cornstarch and 3 tablespoonfuls sugar over the fire and stir until 
it begins to boil ; remove instantly, flavor with vanilla or lemon 
essence and serve cold with the pudding. 

548. Sago Meringue (with Apples). — Boil H pound sago in 

1 quart milk Mrith a little salt and a little butter; in the meantime 
pare and core 6 large apples, put them into a long tin pan with 1 
quart boiling water, cover them with another pan and boil 5 min- 
utes ; transfer the apples to a long-shaped pudding dish and put 1 
teaspoonf ul jelly into each apple ; when the boiled sago is cold mix 
it with the yolks of 4 eggs and 4 tablespoonfuls sugar ; pour this 
over the apples and bake in the oven ; when done draw the pudding 
to the front of oven ; have the 4 whites beaten to a stiff froth and 
add 2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar and a little essence of lemon ; 
spread this over the pudding, close the oven and let the pudding 
bake for a few minutes longer ; eat without sauce, either hot or 
cold. 

649. Sago Cream. — Put H pound sago with boiling water 
over the fire, let it boil 5 minutes and drain on a sieve ; return the 
sago to saucepan, add 3 pints water and boil slowly 1 ^i hours ; add 
1 bottle claret, the juice of 2 lemons and the find of 1 ; add sufficient 
sugar to sweeten and boil 14 hour more ; rinse out a jelly mould or 
small cups with cold water, sprinkle them with sugar, fill them with 
the sago cream and set in a cool place to get firm ; serve cold with 
whipped cream or vanilla sauce ; or take currant juice instead of 
wine and otherwise prepare the same as above ; when cold turn the 
cream onto a glass dish, lay a border of whipped cream sweetened 
with sugar and flavored with vanilla around it and serve without 
sauce. 

550. Botbe Orutze. — Stew H pound currants and ii pound 
raspberries with % pint water about 20 minutes ; strain them through 
a jelly bag; put the juice in a saucepan with the same . quantity of 
water and add sufficient sugar to sweeten ; as soon as it begins to 



COLD PUDDINGS MADE WITH MILK. 155 

boil sprinkle in slowly some of the best sago, allowing 4 tablespoon- 
fuls sago to 1 quart liquid ; add a piece of cinnamon and boil slowly 
till sago is clear, which will take about H hour ; stir it constantly ; 
turn it into cups or jelly moulds ; eat when cold with milk or cream. 

651. Milk Pudding. — Boil 1 quart milk with 6 tablespoonfuls 
sugar, the peel of 1 lemon and add 16 sheets red gelatine which has 
been soaked for 5 minutes in cold water ; stir until the gelatine is 
dissolved ; remove it from fire and add 1 pint Rhine wine ; pour it 
into a jelly mould which has been rinsed with cold water and sprin- 
kled with sugar, set it on ice to get firm and serve with vanilla or 
lemon custard sauce. 

553. Fruit Custard Pudding. — Dip 6 small sponge cakes 
into the juice of 1 can peaches and lay the cake in a glass dish ; lay 
a the peaches over the cake and pour some cold custard over it 
which is made as follows : — Place a saucepan with 1 quart milk, 4 
tablespoonfuls sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs and a pinch of salt over 
the fire and add 2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch ; stir constantly till just 
about to boil ; then remove from the fire and when cold pour it over 
the cake and peaches ; beat the whites to a stiff ^oth, mix with 2 
tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, spread it over the top and serve. 

553. Macaroon Meringue. — Place a saucepan with 1 quart 
milk, the yolks of 4 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls sugar and 1 tablespoon- 
f ul cornstarch over the fire and stir constantly till just about to boil ; 
remove instantly and when cold, stir 1 cup finely chopped almonds 
through it ; put a layer of macaroons in a glass dish, pour over % 
the custard, put another layer of macaroons and then custard again ; 
beat the whites to a stiff froth, add 1 tablespoonful powdered sugar 
and spread it over the top. 

554. Lemon Custard Pudding. — 1 quart milk, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls cornstarch, 3 eggs', the juice, of 2 lemons, the grated rind of 
1 and H tablespoonful butter; mix the cornstarch with a little 
cold milk ; put the remaining milk over the fire, add the butter and 
as soon as it begins to boil stir in the cornstarch; boil a fewminutes. 



156 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

Btirring oonstantly; remove from fire and when cold mix the eggs 
with }i cap sugar, add the lemon jaice and rind, stir this to a 
cream and add gradually to the cornstarch; when well mixed fill it 
into a buttered pudding dish and bake till the custard is set; serve 
cold. 

556. Cornstarch Pudding. — 1 quart milk, 4 tablespoonfuls 
cornstarch, 5 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls sugar and }i teaspoonful salt; 
mix the cornstarch with a little milk ; put the remaining milk with 
sugar and salt in a saucepan over the fire ; as soon as it boils add 
the cornstarch and let it boil for a few minutes, stirring constantly; 
when done remove it to side of stove, add the well beaten yolks of 
the 5 eggs; when well mixed together keeping it hot, and beat 
the whites to a stiff froth and stir them into the mixture; 
rinse out a mould with cold water, sprinkle with sugar, pour in the 

mixture and set either in a cool place or on ice ; serve with fruit 
sauce. 

556. Cornstarch Meringue. — 1 quart milk, 4 table spoonfuls 

cornstarch, 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 4 eggs and 4 tablespoonfuls 
fruit jelly ; bring the milk to a boil and stir in the cornstarch, which 
should be previously dissolved in a little cold milk ; boil a few min- 
utes, stirring constantly ; remove it from the fire and while yet hot 
stir in the yolks beaten up with the sugar and flavor with 1 tea- 
spoonful vanilla ; fill it into a glass dish ; beat the whites with 4 
tablespoonfuls currant or apple jelly to a froth, spread it over the 
pudding and serve when cold. 

557. Armor Pudding. — Boil l quart milk with the rind of 1 
lemon ; dissolve 1 cup cornstarch in 1 cup cold milk and add it slow- 
ly to the milk, stirring constantly ; add X cup sugar and a little 
salt and continue the boiling for a few minutes ; when done remove 
the saucepan to side of stove, keeping it hot ; beat the whites of 6 
eggs to a stiff froth and mix them with the cornstarch ; turn it into 
a jelly mould and serve cold with strawberry or vanilla sauce. The 
mould should be previously rinsed with cold water and sprinkled 
with granulated sugar. 



f 



COLD PUDDINGS MADE WITH MILK. .157 

668. Eed Cream Pudding.— Boil 1 pint fruit juice and 1 
pint water ; add 4 tablespoonf uls cornstarch dissolved in cold water, 
sweeten to taste and continue the boiling for 5 minutes ; remove it 
to side of stove, and while yet hot mix it with the whites of 6 eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth ; turn it into a jelly mould which has been 
rinsed with water and sprinkled with sugar and serve cold with 
vanilla sauce. 

669. Floating Island. — ^Mix 1 quart milk with the yolks of 
4 eggs, 4 tablespoonf uls sugar and H tablespoonf ul cornstarch ; 
stir this over the fire until just about to boil ; remove instantly and 
add 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla essence ; set a glass dish on a wet cloth 
and pour in the hot custard ; beat the whites to a stiff froth, spread 
it over the custard, sprinkle a little sugar over and cover it up for 
20 minutes ; then set it on ice or in a cool place ; serve cold ; or beat 
the whites with 4 tablespoonfuls fruit jelly to a stiff froth, heap 
this meringue upon the custard when cold and dot it with bits of 
jelly laid all over it. 

660. Banana Float. — ^Put in a saucepan 1 quart milk, ^ 
tablespoonf ul cornstarch, H cup sugar and the yolks of 4 eggs ; set 
the saucepan in a vessel of boiling water and stir over the fire till 
nearly boiling ; remove instantly, pour the custard into a dish and 
add 1 teaspoonf ul lemon extract; when cold have H dozen bananas 
cut into slices and stir them into the custard ; beat the whites to a 
stiff froth, mix with a little powdered sugar, cover the custard with 
the meringue, set lady fingers around the edge of dish and serve. 

661. Peach Float. — ^Blanch l cup almonds, chop them very 
fine and stir into a custard made the same as in f oregomg recipe ; 
pare and cut some npe peaches into eighths and stir them into the 
custard; put into a glass dish with- meringue on top and garnish with 
kisses or lady fingers. Orange float is made the same as Banana 
Float. 

662. Lemon Custard. — ^Boil 1 quart milk with H cup sugar 
and while boiling stir in 2H tablespoonfuls cornstarch previously 



158 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

wet with a little cold milk; stir constantly and boil a few minutes; 
then remove it from the fire and add 2 teaspoonf uls lemon essence 
and the well beaten yolks of 4 eggs ; turn the custard mto a glass 
dish, beat the whites to a stiff froth, spread it over the top, sprinkle 
a little sugar over and serve when cold. 

563. Lemon Cream Pudding. — Place a saucepan over the 
fire with the rind of 1 lemon and the juice of 3 ; add 1 cup sugar, 1 
cup white wine and the yolks of 4 eggs ; stir this until nearly boil- 
ing ; remove it from the fire and add }i ounce gelatine which has 
been soaked for 10 minutes in cold water; when nearly cold add 1 
pint sweet cream beaten to a stiff froth ; turn into a jelly mould and 
set on ice to get firm ; serve without sauce. Or put in a saucepan 
the yolks of 6 eggs, ^ pint white wine, 6 tablespoonf uls sugar, the 
juice of 3 lemons and the peel of 1 ; stir this over the fire until it 
begins to boil ; remove it and add 1 ounce gelatine which has been 
previously soaked In cold water; stir until the gelatine is dissolved; 
when nearly cold add the whites beaten to a stiff froth ; turn into a 
jelly mould and set on ice to get firm; serve without sauce. 

564. Custard Bread Pudding. — Mix the yolks of 4 eggs 
with 1 quart milk, 4 tablespoonf uls sugar and 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla ; 
pour this into a pudding dish and lay 2 slices of buttered bread on 
top of the custard ; bake until nearly done ; beat the whites to a 
froth, mix with 1 tablespoonful sugar, spread it over the pudding 
and bake to a bght brown color; serve cold. 

565. Custard. — ^Beat 5 eggs with H cup sugar to a cream and 
add 1 quart milk and 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla or lemon essence ; pour 
this mto a pudding dish and bake m a medium hot oven till done ; 
to ascertam when the custard is done put the handle of a teaspoon 
into the center of dish ; if the custard is thick and jelly-like, and no 
milk is to be seen, remove instantly from the oven and serve when 
cold; or pour the custard into small cups, set them in a long pan 
of hot water and bake in a medium hot oven till the custard is 
thick. 



COLD PUDDINGS MADE WITH MILK. 159 

566. Apple Custard. — ^Pare and core 6 medium sized apples, 
put them in a pan half filled with boiling water, cover with another 
pan of same size and let them boil till soft all through, but not 
broken ; transfer them carefully to a glass dish, sprinkle over some 
sugar and when cold put 1 teaspoonful apple, currant or quince 
jelly in center of each apple ; pour over a cold soft custard. For 
custard mix 1 pint milk with 3 well beaten eggs and add 2 table- 
spoonfuls sugar and 1 teaspoonful cornstarch ; stir over the fire till 
nearly boiling, flavor with essence of lemon and set aside to cool. 

667. Pineapple Custard. — ^Pare and cut a ripe pineapple in- 
to small pieces, taking care not to lose any of the juice ; put the 
fruit with sugar into a glass dish and set on ice ; boil 1 pint milk ; 
mix 2 tablespoonf uls cornstarch with 1 cup cold milk, add it with 
a little salt to the boiling milk and stir and boil for a few -minutes ; 
remove from fire and add 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, the yolks of 3 
eggs and 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract ; mix this well together and 
set aside.; when cold pour the custard over the pineapple ; haye the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth, mix a. little powdered sugar through 
it and put on top of custard like a pyramid ; place the dish for H 
hour on ice before serving. 

568. Strawberry Custard.— Wash 1 quart strawberries, 
drain and put them besprinkled with sugar in a glass dish ; pour 
over a cold custard and finish the same as Pineapple Custard. 

569. Feaeh Custard. — ^Pare and cut into slices some ripe 
peaches, sprinkle over some sugar and finish the same as Pineapple 
Custard. Apricot custard is made the same way. 

570. Chocolate Fruit Custard. — ^Dissolve 3 tablespoonfuls 
grated sweet chocolate in a little milk and mix it with a custard 
made the same as Pineapple Custard; when cold pour it over 
strawberries, pineapples, oranges or any kind of preserved fruit and 
cover with the whites of 3 or 4 eggs beaten to a stiff froth. If 
preserved fruit is used the syrup may be used for jelly. 



IGO DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

571. Fruit Custard (with Cake). — Cut some sponge cAkes 
several days old into square pieces ; drain off the liquor from a can 
of peaches; dip each piece of cake into the liquor and lay tbein in 
a glass dish ; lay the peaches between and pour a cold custard over ; 
spread over the top the whites of 3 or 4 eggs beaten to a stiff fn>th, 
sprinkle over a little sugar and serve. Any kind of stale cake may 
be used up in this way. 

572. Tutti Frutti Custard. — Cut any kind of stale cake into 
small pieces ; put a layer of cornstarch custard into a buttered pud^ 
ding dish, then a layer of cake ; sprinkle over the cake some finely 
cut citron, raisins and currants ; continue in this way until 2 layers 
of cake and 2 of custard are in the dish ; cover the top with a mer- 
ingue made of the whites of 3 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, add a 
little powdered sugar and bake in the oven for a few minutes, till 
meringue is a light brown, and serve. The raisins, currants and 
citron should be boiled for 15 minutes in a little water before adding 
them. 

673. Apple Custard Pudding.— Pare and core 6 large pip- 
pin or greening apples, place them in a long pan with 1 quart boil- 
ing water, cover with another pan of same size and stew from 5 to 
8 minutes, or until a straw will penetrate through them easily ; do 
not allow them to break ; then remove the apples carefully to a pud- 
ding dish and put 1 teaspoonf ul currant jelly into each apple ; stir 5 
eggs with 4 tablespoonf uls sugar to a cream and add 1 teaspoonful 
lemon extract and 1 quart milk ; pour this over the apples and bake 
till custard is firm ; serve cold in the same dish in which it has been 
baked. 

574. Peach Meringue. — Boil 3 cups milk with a pinch of salt, 
}i tablespoonf ul butter and 4 tablespoonf uls sugar ; mix 2 table- 
spoonfuls cornstarch with 1 cup milk, stir it into the boiling milk 
and continue boiling for a few minutes ; then remove from fire and 
set aside ; when cold mix it with the yolks of 4 eggs and 1 teaspoon- 
ful lemon extract; pare and cut into halves 8 or 10 large, ripe 
peaches, lay them in a well buttered pudding dish and sprinkle 3 



COLD PUDDINGS MADE WITH MILK. 161 

tablespoonfuls sugar over; pour over the cornstarch and bake 20 
minutes ; draw the dish to front of oven ; have the whites beaten to 
a stiff froth, spread them over the top, sprinkle a little sugar over 
and bake for 5 minutes longer ; serve when warm with fruit sauce 
and when cold with cream or vanilla sauce. Chemes and pineap- 
ples may be used the same way. 

575. Tipsy Parson. — ^Take a sponge cake several days old, 
crumble it up fine, put a layer of it in a glass dish and pour over 1 
glass wine ; then add H cup finely chopped almonds, then a layer 
of whipped bream; then begin over again, by laying another layer 
of cake crumbs, almonds and cream ; continue in this way till all is 
used ; let the last layer be cream. All kinds of cake crumbs can be 
used, but sponge cake is the best. 

576. Bnssian Cream Pndding. — ^Rub the skin of 2 lemons 

and 1 orange on H pound loaf sugar; pound the sugar fine, pour 
the juice of the lemons and orange over it, add 1 ounce gelatine 
(which should be soaked in a little cold water), 1 pint white wine, 
4 whole eggs and the yolks of 8 eggs ; put this into a tin pail and 
set it in a vessel of hot water; stir with an egg beater until just 
about to boil ; remove instantly, add H pound sugar and stir until 
cold ; then add 1 quart sweet cream beaten to a froth and H pint 
Madeira wine or rum ; fill the cream into a form and set it on ice ; 
in serving turn the cream out and garnish with' lady fingers and 
macaroons. 

677. Tapioca Pudding. — Wash 3 tablespoonfuls tapioca, put 
it into a pudding dish with 1 quart milk and let it stand for 1 hour ; 
then set the dish on the side of stove to heat gradually ; when the 
tapioca is soft beat up 3 eggs with 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, stir them 
into the tapioca and flavor with 1 teaspoonf ul lemon extract ; put 
small pieces of butter over the top and bake in the oven ; serve with 
or without sauce. Preserved peaches may be sent to table with it. 

678. Tapioca Meringue. — Soak H cup tapioca in 1 quart 

milk for 2 hours; set the dish on the side of stove and let it heat 
11 



162 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

slowly; stir the yolkB of 4 eggs with H cup sugar to a cream, add 
them to the pudding and flavor with 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla ; put 1 
tablespoonf ul butter in small pieces over the top and bake till it be- 
gins to thicken ; beat the whites to a stiff froth and add 1 table- 
spoonful powdered sugar and a little lemon extract ; draw the pud- 
ding to the front of oven, spread the meringue over, set it for a few 
minutes back in the oven and serve. 

679. Tapioca Padding (economical). — Soak l cup tapioca 

in 3 cups water for 3 hours ; then put the tapioca into a saucepan, 
set this into a vessel of hot water, add 1 cup boiling water and boil 
till tapioca is done (or clear) ; add ^i teaspoonful salt, the juice of 
1 lemon and a little grated rind ; sweeten with 5 tablespoonf nls 
sugar, turn into a jelly mould and serve when cold with the follow- 
ing sauce made of 1 egg^ 2 teaspoonf uls cornstarch and 2 cups water; 
sweeten to taste ; add a little butter ; stir this over the fire till just 
about to boil ; add a little nutmeg, the juice of 1 lemon and serve 
when cold with the pudding ; or serve with custard sauce. 

580. Tapioca Padding (with Lemon Saace). — Soak 1 cup 

tapioca in 1 quart milk for 2 or 3 hours ; put this in a saucepan and 
add yi teaspoonful salt and 2 tablespoonf uls butter ; set the sauce- 
pan in a vessel of boiling water and boil till tapioca is soft; turn in- 
to a jelly mould and set aside to cool; for the sauce pare 1 lemon as 
thinly as possible and boil the skin for 20 minutes, changing the 
water 3 times ; cut the peel in small strips like straws ; place a sauce- 
pan with 1 cup sugar, ^ cup water and the lemon peel over the fire 
and boil for 10 minutes; in serving turn the pudding onto a dish 
and pour the cold sauce over it. This pudding may be served with 
vanilla or lemon custard sauce. Tapioca prepared this way may 
also be put into cups. 

581. Tapioca Padding (with Apples). — Soak % cup tapioca 

in cold water for 2 hours ; then mix it with ^i cup sugar, 1 quart 
milk, 4 eggs and 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract ; pare and core 6 pip- 
pin or greening apples, put them in a pan with water, cover them 
with another tin pan and let them boil 5 mmutes ; remove the apples 



COLD PUDDINGS MADE WITH MILK. 1 63 

carefully, put them into a pudding dish, pour the tapioca mixture 
over them and bake in the oven ; serve with hard sauce or send it to 
table without sauce sprinkled with powdered sugar. 

583. Apple Tapioca Pndding. — Soak 1 cup tapioca over 
night in 4 cups water ; next morning add about 6 large tart apples, 
chopped very fine (or more, according to size), and add 1 cup sugar; 
bake slowly until done ; to be eaten either warm or cold with cream. 
A delicate dish for invalids. 

583. Farina Custard Pndding. — Boil 3 tablespoonfuls farina 
in 1 quart milk with }i teaspoonful salt; when cold mix it with 4 
well beaten eggs, \4 cup sugar and 1 }i teaspoon fuls essence of 
lemon ; put into a pudding dish and bake till custard is set ; eat hot 
or cold without sauce. This padding may also be made with a 
meringue the same as Cornstarch Meringue. 

584. Bose Pndding. — Soak 1 ounce gelatine in 1 cup cold 
water 15 minutes ; then add 1 cup boiling water, the yolks of 
6 eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls sugar, the peel of 1 lemon and 1 pint white 
wine ; stir this with an egg beater till it nearly boils ; then remove 
instantly, add a little cochineal to color it to a beautiful pink and 
set aside to cool ; when cold and beginning to thicken stir in the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth ; turn into a mould previously rinsed 
with cold water and sprinkled with sugar and set the form on ice 
for 2 hours ; when ready to serve turn the pudding onto a dish and 
send vanilla sauce to table with it. 

585. Figaro Pndding. — Soak 1 ounce gelatine in a little 
water for 15 minutes ; place a saucepan with 1 pint sweet cream, the 
yolks of 4 eggs and 6 tablespoonfuls sugar over the fire and stir un- 
til nearly boiling ; add the gelatine and stir till it is dissolved ; re- 
move it from the fire and set aside to cool, stirring it now and then ; 
when quite cold and beginning to thicken stir in lightly 1 pint whip- 
ped cream and flavor with vanilla ; rinse out a mould with cold 
water, sprinkle with sugar, fill in the cream and set in a cool place 
to form ; serve with cold strawberry sauce. 



164 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

586. Farina Melnsine (with Apples).— Bring 1 quart milk 

to a boil, add, stirring constantly, 1 cup farina and stir until it forms 
into a stiff paste and loosens itself from bottom of saucepan ; trans- 
fer it to a dish ; when cold stir 2 tablespoonf uls butter to a cream 
and add alternately the yolks of 6 eggs, the farina, 4 tablespoonf uls 
sugar, the rind of 1 lemon and lastly the beaten whites ; pare and 
core 8 large tart apples, put them in a long pan over the fire, add 1 
quart boiling water, cover with another pan of same size and steam 
them 5 minutes (no longer) ; then remove carefully, lay them into a 
long shaped pudding dish, put a teaspoonful jelly into each apple 
and pour the farina mixture over so the apples are entirely covered ; 
bake in a medium hot oven about H hour and serve with the fol- 
lowing sauce : — Stir 2 tablespoonf uls butter with 1 cup powdered 
sugar to a cream, add the yolks of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls rum or 
Cognac, a little nutmeg and lastly the whites beaten to a stiff froth; 
sufficient for a family of 8 persons. 

587. Farina Beignets. — Bring 1 pint milk with 1 tablespoon- 

f ul butter to a boil and add, stirring constantly, 1 cup farina ; con- 
tinue stirring until it loosens itself from the bottom of saucepan ; 
transfer the farina to a dish and when cold mix it by degrees with 
the yolks of 3 eggs, the grated rind of 1 lemon and 1 tablespoon- 
ful sugar; divide this into equal parts the size of an eggy roll them 
into oblong shapes, dip them into the beaten whites, roll in fine 
bread crumbs and fry in boiling lard ; serve them dusted with sugar 
or send fruit sauce to table with them. 

588. Farina Padding (withont Eggs).— Boil 3 pints milk 

with a little salt and while boiling sprinkle in slowly 5 tablespoonfuls 
farina ; set the saucepan with the farina in a vessel of hot water and 
continue the boiling for )i hour ; pour it into a jelly mould which 
has been rinsed with cold water and sprinkled with sugar and serve 
cold with either wine fruit or vanilla sauce ; or sprinkle with sugar. 
This pudding may also be eaten with cream or milk, and is also 
nice cut into slices and fried ; or dip the slices into beaten egg^ 
roll in fine bread crumbs, fry and serve for breakfast with meat. 



COLD PUDDINGS MADE WITH MILK. 165 

689. Farina Koch (with Chocolate). — Boil 3 cups milk, add 

5 tablespoonfuls farina and stir constantly until thick; transfer to a 
dish and when cold stir 2 tablespoonfuls butter to a cream, add by de- 
grees the yolks of 5 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls sugar and add the farina by 
a spoonful at a time ; add lastly the whites beaten to a stiff froth ; 
divide the mixture into 2 halves ; mix H with 2 ounces grated va- 
nilla chocolate; put first a layer of the white farina mixture, then a 
layer of the chocolate mixture into a well^uttered pudding dish ; re- 
repeat this operation, lay on top some almonds cut into strips, 
sprinkle over some sugar and bake %, hour in a medium hot oven ; 
it may be served with or without sauce ; send to table in the same 
dish in which it was baked ; either set in a silver dish or pin a nap- 
kin around it. 

590. Farina 8oufl6e (with Almonds and Baisins).— Boil 

ii pound farina in 2 ^ cups milk and 1 >!e tablespoonfuls butter un- 
til thick ; when cold mix it with the yolks of 6 eggs, 3 tablespoon* 
fuls sugar, a little salt, 2 ounces finely chopped almonds, 10 bitter 
almonds, 2 ounces seedless raisins and the 6 whites beaten to a stiff 
froth ; bake in a buttered form and serve as soon as done with rasp^ 
berry or wine sauce. 

591. Farina Pndding (with Almonds).— Boil 1 quart milk 

and while boiling sprinkle in slowly 4 tablespoonfuls farina ; add 4. 
tablespoonfuls finely chopped almonds and continue boiling for 20 
minutes; sweeten with 4 tablespoonfuls sugar; when done remove 
from fire and add the yolks of 4 eggs ; pour it into a glass dish ; 
beat the whites with 4 tablespoonfuls currant, apple or cranberry 
jelly to a stiff froth and spread it over the pudding; serve with claret 
sauce made as follows : — Put )i pint water with 3 slices of lemon, 
a piece of cinnamon and 2 cloves over the fire and boil 5 minutes ; 
then add 1 teaspoonf ul Bermuda arrowroot and boil 2 minutes ; take 
it from the fire, add }i pint claret, sweeten with sugar, stram and 
serv^e with the pudding when cold. If arrowroot is not handy use 
cornstarch. 

592. Fine Farina Pudding (boiled). — Boil 1 cup farina in 1 

pint milk with a little salt and >ib tablespoonful butter until it 



166 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

becomes thick and loosens itself from bottom of saucepan; when cold 
stir H pound butter to a cream and add alternately 5 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, the yolks of 8 eggs and the boiled farina by a spoonful 
at a time ; add lastly the beaten whites and grated rind and juice of 
1 lemon ; butter a pudding form, sprinkle with fine bread crumbs, 
fill id the mixture, close tightly and boil 2 hours ; serve with wine 
cream sauce (see Sauce). Note. — This pudding should be served 
as soon as taken out of the form. 

693. Farina Sonfl^e. — Bring 1 pint milk with 1 tablespoon- 
f ul butter to a boil and add 1)y degrees, stirring constantly, 1 cup 
farina ; continue stirring until it has formed into a stiff paste and 
loosens itself from bottom of saucepan ; then transfer it to a dish 
and set aside to cool ; stir 1 tablespoonf ul butter to a cream and add 
alternately the yolks of 5 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, the grated 
rind of 1 lemon and the farina paste by a spoonful at a time ; stir 
with a potato masher 'until all is well mixed; add' lastly the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth ; fill the mixture into a well buttered pudding 
form and bake %, hour ; dust the soufl6e with sugar and serve as 
soon as ^done ; send raspberry or any kind of fruit sauce to table 
with it. 

694. Farina Mush. — ^Put 1 quart milk in a saucepan over the 
fire and when it boils add gradually, stirring constantly, 1 cup far- 
ina ; add H teaspoonf ul salt, a small piece of butter and continue 
stirring and boiling for 10 minutes; then add by^degrees 1 pint milk 
and boil a few minutes longer ; serve on a dish dusted with sugar 
and if the fiavor is liked sprinkle a little cinnamon over ; some finely 
chopped almonds may be added if liked ; or put the farina into a 
dish, sprinkle thickly with sugar and hold a red hot poker over it 

to brown the sugar. 

• 

696. Farina Pudding (cold).— Boil 1 quart milk with M 

teaspoonful salt, H, tablespoonful butter and while stirring constant- 
ly sprinkle in slowly 5 tablespoonfuls farina ; continue the boiling 
for 20 minutes; when done remove it to side of stove, add 4 
tablespoonfuls sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs, and while hot add the 



COLD PUDDINGS MADE WITH MILK. 167 

whites beaten tp a stiff froth ; fill this into a form, set it in a cool 
place and serve with strawberry sauce made as follows : — ^Place a 
saucepan over the fire with 1 cup water; dissolve 1 heaping tea- 
spoonful cornstarch in a little cold water, add it to the contents of 
saucepan, boil for a few minutes, transfer to a dish and mix with the 
juice of H lemon, a little Rhine wine and H pint fresh strawberry 
juice. 

696. Fine Farina Pndding (with Yanilla Sauce).— Boil 5 

tablespoonfuls farina in I quart milk with a little salt the same way 
as in preceding recipe ; as soon as done add 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
and while hot mix it with the whites of 6 eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth; fill the mixture into a jelly mould which has been 
rinsed with cold water and sprinkled with granulated sugar and set 
on ice to cool ; put the 6 yolks with 1 quart milk and 4 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar over the fire and stir until just about to boil ; remove in* 
stantly from the fire and flavor with essence of vanilla. 

597. Figaro Padding. — ^Boil 1 pint milk with a little salt and 
1 tablespoonful butter and while boiling sprinkle in slowly 8 table- 
spoonfuls farina ; stir and boil till the farina is thick and loosens it- 
self from bottom of saucepan; remove it to a dish to cool; stir 1 
tablespoonful butter to a cream and add alternately the yolks of 8 
eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls sugar, the grated rind of 1 lemon and the 
boiled farina by a spoonful at a time ; add lastly the whiter beaten 
to a stiff froth ; now divide this mixture into 3 parts ; color first part 
by stirring a few spoonfuls cocoa into it ; add to second part a little 
cochineal for the red ; the third part leave white ; put this into a well 
buttered form in 3 layers and boil 2 hours ; serve with wine cream 
sauce. 

698. Apples an benrre. — Pare, cut and quarter 12 large tart 
apples, remove the cores and put the apples in a wide kettle with H 
pound melted butter, H pound sugar and 1 teaspoonful vanilla ex- 
tract ; cover and let them simmer over a slow fire for 10 minutes ; 
then turn each piece over, add 2 tablespoonfuls water and let them 
stew till tender, but not broken ; transfer the apples to a dish ; pile 



168 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

them up high in center ; add 4 tablespoonf uls apple jelly to the 
syrup, let it boil up and if too thick add a little more water ; pour 
it over the apples and lay around the edge fleurons of puff paste. 

599. Apple Meringlfe. — Pare, core and cut into quarters 12 
large tart apples and stew them the same as in . foregoing recipe ; 
put the cores and peels covered with water over the fire and boil to 
a pulp ; strain through a jelly bag ; measure the liquor ; allow for 1 
pint liquor 1 pound sugar; boil the liquor 10 minutes; then add the 
sugar ; stir until melted ; then remove from fire ; pile the apples up 
high in a dish, pour over the jelly and when cold cover with a thick 
layer of meringue ; set it for a few minutes in a cool oven and serve 
when cold. Apple marmalade may be used instead of apple jelly, 
and put into the dish in alternate layers with the apples. 

600. Apples (with Whipped Cream).— Pare, core and cut 
into quarters 1 dozen large tart apples ; boil them in rich sugar 
syrup till tender, but not broken ; remove the apples carefully to a 
glass dish ; boil the syrup a little longer and pour it over the apples ; 
when cold put over a thin layer of currant jelly and over this a thick 
layer of whipped cream sweetened with sugar and flavored with 
vanilla. 

601. Peches & la Cond6. — Boil 10 ounces rice for 5 min- 
utes in cold water, drain in a colander and rinse with cold water ; 
return the rice to saucepan with 1 H pints sweet cream and boil un- 
til tender and thick ; then add 1 >^ tablespoonf uls butter, 4 table- 
spoonfuls sugar, a pinch of salt, 2 teaspoon f uls vanilla extract and 
the yolks of 4 eggs; butter a plain border mould, dust well with 
flour, put in the rice and bake 15 minutes;, then set it in a warm 
place ; pare and cut into halves 1 H dozen peaches and boil them 
in sugar syrup till a straw will pierce through them easily ; take the 
fruit out carefully and lay it on a sieve to drain ; crack the pits, 
take out the kernels, scald them in boiling water, remove the brown 
skins and cut the kernels into strips ; put them into the peach syrup 
and boil slowly till syrup begins to thicken ; put the peaches back 
into the syrup and set them in a warm place ; shortly before serving 



COLD PUDDINGS MADE WITH MILK. 169 

tarn the rice border onto a round dish, put the peaches in center, pile 
them up, pour the syrup over the fruit and a little over the border 
and serve at once. Apricots, apples or pears the same way. 

603. Apricots h la parisienne.— Pare 12 or 15 ripe apricots, 
cut them in halves and boil in sugar syrup ; take them out and set 
aside to cool ; boil 3 cups milk with ^i tablespoonf ul butter, 4 
tablespoonf uls sugar and a pinch of salt ; mix 4 tablespoonf lils corn- 
starch with 1 cup cold milk, stir it into the boiling milk and con- 
tinue stirring and boiling for a few minutes ; remove to side of 
stove, add the yolks of 4 eggs and 2 teaspoonf uls vanilla extract ; 
and while hot stir in the 4 whites beaten to a stiff froth ; rinse 
out a border mould with cold water, sprinkle thickly with granu- 
lated sugar, put in the cornstarch mixture and set on ice to cool ; 
shortly before serving turn the border onto a round dish and pile 
the apricots high up in the center ; reduce the syrup by boiling it a 
little longer and pour over the fruit and border when cold. Made 
of apples, peaches, pears, cherries, pineapples, currants or rasp- 
berries the same way. Note. — Stewed cherries or finely cut pine- 
apples may be stirred into the cornstarch before putting it into the 
form and the border. When turned on the dish it may be decorated 
with fresh strawberries, cherries or raspberries. The cornstarch 
may be put into a round form. When turned out onto a dish lay the 
fruit all over it, cover the whole with a meringue and serve the 
syrup the fruit was boiled in as a sauce with it ; or serve vanilla 
sauce with it. 

603. Pineapple Croutes. — Pare and cut a small pineapple 
into small pieces and boil them in sugar syrup till tender ; take the 
pineapple out and reduce the syrup by boiling it down ; cut a loaf 
of stale bread into slices }i inch in thickness, cut the slices into 
rounds with a cake cutter and toast them to a handsome brown 
color ; lay them in a pan and dust with sugar ; set them for a few 
minutes in a hot oven to glaze ; spread a thick layer of apple mar- 
malade over the bottom of a round dish ; also spread each piece of 
toast with the marmalade ; set them around the edge of dish, ppur 



170 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

over some of the syrup and pat the pmeapple in the center. Bri- 
oche when a few days old may be used instead of bread. 

604. Cherry Crontes are made the same as Pineapple Crofites. 
Peach Crotltes and Apricot Crofites are also made the same as Pine- 
apple Crotltes. 

605. Apples in Jelly, No. 1. — ^Pare 1 dozen Spitzenberg apples 
and remove the cores with an apple corer without breaking the 
fruit ; put a wide kettle or saucepan over the fire with sufficient 
water to cover the apples, let it come to a boil, put in the apples 
and boil till a straw will easily pierce through them ; then transfer 
them carefully to a long glass dish ; boil the liquor down to 1 quart 
and add 1 cup sugar and 1 ounce gelatine soaked for 15 minutes in 
a little cold water; stir it into the apple syrup, bt)il for a few min- 
utes and then set aside ; when nearly cold pour the syrup over the 
apples and set on ice to get firm ; serve with whipped cream or 
vanilla sauce. Peaches, pears or quinces are made the same way. 
Finely chopped nuts sprinkled over before the jelly has hardened 
or freshly grated cocoanut sprinkled over is a great improvement. 
Half these quantities will be sufficient for a family of 6. 

606. Apples in Jelly^ No. 2. — Pare l dozen pippin or green- 
ing apples, remove the cores without breaking the fruit and lay the 
apples into water with the juice of 1 lemon (this will keep them 
from turning) ; put the peels and cores of apples into a kettle, cover 
with water and boil until soft ; strain first through cheesecloth and 
then through a flannel bag till the liquor is clear ; return the liquor 
to kettle and when it boils put in the apples ; boil until a straw will 
easily pierce through them; then remove the apples carefully to a 
glass dish ; measure the apple water and allow 1 pound sugar for 1 
pint water; boil the liquid 20 minutes; then add the sugar, boil 3 
minutes and let it cool off a little ; then pour it over the apples and 
serve when cold without sauce. 

607. Apples (with Gnstard).— Pare, core and cut into 
quarters 6 large pippin or greening apples; put % cup sugar with 



COLD PUDDINGS MADE WITH MILK. 171 

1 cup water in a wide, low pan over the fire and boil 2 minutes ; put 
in as many apple quarters as will lay in without crowding one anoth- 
er ; boil until a straw will pierce through them easily ; then take the 
apples out with a skimmer, lay them in a pudding dish and boil the 
remaining apples the same way ; when the apples are all done and 
laid in the dish make a custard in the following way : — B§at 5 eggs 
until very light and add 4tablespoonfulssugar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla 
and 1 quart cold milk ; pour this over the apples and bake till the 
custard is firm ; when done remove the dish from oven and serve 
when cold with a napkin folded around the dish 

608. Apples (with Currant Jelly). — ^Take 6 large green- 
ing apples, 1 cup currant jelly and 1 cup sugar ; pare, core and cut 
the apples into quarters and lay them in cold water ; put the cores 
and peels in a saucepan, cover with water and boil till tender; strain 
them through a jelly bag and return liquid to saucepan ; as sobn as 
it boils put in some of the apples (not too many at once, so they do 
not crowd one another) and boil until a straw will easily pierce 
through them ; then take them out carefully, lay on a dish to cool 
and boil the remaining apples the same way ; when all are boiled 
again strain the liquid and boil it 20 minutes ; then measure it ; add 
to 1 pint liquid 1 pound sugar and stir until sugar is dissolved; 
then add the currant jelly and stir and boil 2 minutes ; then remove 
from fire ; rinse out a mould with cold water, sprinkle with sugar, 
lay in the apple quarters and pour the liquid when nearly cold over 
them ; set on ice to get firm ; in serving turn them onto a dish and 
lay a circle of whipped cream around the dish or the whites of 3 
eggH beaten to a stiff froth and mixed with 1 tablespoonf ul pow- 
dered sugar; put the yolks of the 3 eggs with 2 tablespoonf uls 
sugar and 1 pint milk in saucepan and stir over the fire till just 
about to boil ; add 1 teaspoonful vanilla and when cold serve with 
the apples. This makes a pretty dish for supper or dessert. 

609. Steamed Apples. — ^Pare and core H dozen large tart 
apples and stick 6 cloves all around into each apple ; put them in a 
pan, put a little sugar into each apple and pour some boiling water 



172 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

in the pan ; cover and steam them on top of the stove until a straw 
will penetrate through them easily ; transfer the apples to a dish 
and set aside to cool; boil the peels and cores in water till soft; then 
strain through a jelly bag, add the water the apples were boiled in 
and boil the two together 20 minutes ; then add for 1 pint liquid 1 
pound sugar and boil 10 minutes more ; put 1 teaspoonful currant 
jelly into each apple and set aside to cool ; arrange the apples neatly 
in a long dish, pour the apple jelly over them and set in a cool place 
till wanted. 

610. Baked Apples^ No. 1. — Pare some large greening or 
pippin apples and remove the cores without breaking the fruit ; set 
the apples in a shallow tin pan, fill them with sugar and pour a 
little water in bottom of pan ; set them in a hot oven to bake till 
done ; care should be taken not to have them broken ; when done re- 
move them from oven, pile up high in a glass dish and dust with 
fine sugar. 

611. Baked Apples^ No. 2. — Wash and dry some large tart 
apples and remove the cores without breaking the fruit ; set them 
in a long pan, add a little water and bake in a hot oven ; when done 
transfer them to a dish, sprinkle over some sugar and serve hot. 

612. Baked Apples and Coeoannt. — Pare and core 6 large 
greening apples without breaking them, set in a pan and fill each 
apple with sugar ; boil the peels and cores in water till soft and 
strain them through a bag ; pour the liquor over the apples, cover 
with another pan and boil on top of stove till they are half done ; 
transfer the apples to another pan, sprinkle them thickly with 
freshly grated cacoanut mixed with sugar and set in oven to bake 
till done and to a light brown ; in the meantime strain the liquor the 
apples were boiled in into a saucepan and measure it ; allow for 1 
pint liquid 1 pound sugar and boil 5 minutes; when the apples are 
done remove them to a glass dish, pour over the apple syrup and 
sprinkle a thick layer of fresh cocoanut and sugar over; serve when 
cold. 



COLD PUDDINGS MADE WITH MILK. 173 

613, Pound Sweets (baked). — Remove the cores from H 
dozen pound sweet apples without breaking them ; put them in a 
long, shallow tin pan, add a little water and bake till tender ; re- 
move them to a glass dish, put into each apple 1 teaspoonful apple 
or currant jelly and dust them over with sugar ; serve with or with- 
out sweet cream. 

614, Pound Sweets (in Syrup).— Pare, core and cut into 
halves i4 dozen large sweet apples and lay them in cold water with 
a little lemon juice or a little vinegar ; put the cores and peels over 
the fire, cover with water and boil till soft ; strain through a coarse 
bag, return the liquor to saucepan and add the juice of 1 lemon, a 
little of the rind and 1 cup sugar; as soon as it boils put in the 
apples ; let them boil until a straw will pierce through them easily ; 
remove the apples to a dish and strain the liquor over them ; serve 
when cold. A few whole cloves and a piece of cinnamon may be 
added if the flavor is liked. 

615. Apples Baked with Jelly. — Pare and core 6 good sized 
greening or pippin apples and stick cloves all around the top near 
the opening into each one ; put them in a tin pan in a hot oven, add 
H cup water and bake till done ; put the peels and cores in a 
saucepan, cover with water and boil till tender; strain through a 
jelly bag, return the juice to saucepan and boil 20 minutes ; then 
add for 1 pint juice 1 pound sugar and boil 10 minutes; remove 
the apples to a glass dish, pour the apple jelly over them and serve 
cold. 

616. Apple i la Neige. — Pare, core and cut into quarters 6 
large tart apples ; put them in saucepan with the peel of i4 lemon, 
}i cup water and cover and stew till the apples fall apart ; then 
press them through a coarse sieve or colander (the former is the 
best), add }i cup sugar and set aside; when cold beat the whites of 
6 eggs to a stiff froth, slowly add the apple sauce and continue the 
beating for H hour ; heap it on a glass dish, set lady fingers divided 

n two all around the dish with bits of currant jelly between and 



174 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

serve with the following sauce : — Stir the yolks with 4 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar and 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract to a cream; add slowly 
1 pint cold milk and serve with the above dish. This is a pretty 
supper dish and a nice dessert. This dish may be made of peaches 
or cranberries the same way. 

617. Apple Sauce. — Pare, core and cut into small pieces 12 
good sized tart apples, put them into a saucepan^ with H pint water 
and cover and stew till tender ; add 1 cup sugar, press it through a 
sieve or colander, pour into a glass dish and serve either warm or 
cold. 

618. Apple Sance (economical). — Wash 1 dozen tart apples 
and cut them into pieces ; put them over the fire in a porcelain-lined 
or agate saucepan, add 1 cup water, cover tightly and stew till 
tender; when done press them through a sieve or colander (the for- 
mer is best), sweeten with sugar and serve. Apple sauce made in 
this way needs only half the apples, and is equally as nice when 
made right as if the apples were peeled. Apples should never be 
stewed in rusty tins or iron pots, as they will spoil the appearance of 
the sauce. Take either a porcelain-lined saucepan, an agate kettle, 
a new tin kettle or pan or a stone saucepan. Either of these are 
good for stewing fruit in. 

619. Apples Stewed with Lemons. — ^Pare, core and quarter 
12 good sized tart apples; put a kettle over the fire with 1 quart 
water, 1 cup sugar, 1 large lemon cut into thin slices and freed from 
the pits and boil for a few minutes ; then put in the apples and boil 
until a straw will pierce through them easily ; then remove from 
fire, put the apples into a dish and pour the strained syrup over 
them ; serve either warm or cold. 

620. Apples Stewed Whole with Cnrrants. — Pare and core 

1 dozen medium sized tart apples without breaking them ; boil 1 cup 
sugar with 1 pinJb water to a syrup, put in the apples and boil till a 
straw will pierce through them easily ; then take out the apples care- 
fully; put H cup well washed and dried currants into the syrup 



COLD PUDDINGS MADE WITH MILK. 175 

and boil 5 minutes ; pour it over the apples and serve when cold. 
Finely cut citron or seedless raisins may be used instead of currants, 
or use all three together. 

631. Stewed Dried Apples. — Wash and soak the apples for 1 
hour, put them in a saucepan, cover with cold water (or put them 
on with the water they were soaked in), cover, boil slowly till ten- 
der and sweeten them with sugar ; serve either hot or cold. 

622. Stewed Evaporated Apples. — Wash H pound evapo^ 

rated apples in several waters, put them in a saucepan, cover with 
cold water and boil till tender; add H cup sugar and boil for a few 
minutes ; transfer them to a dish and serve either hot or cold ; or 
press the apples when done through a sieve and serve in a glass 
dish. 

623. Peaches Stewed Whole. — Pare 1 quart small peaches; 

boil 1 cup sugar with 1 cup water for a few minutes, put in the 
peaches and boil till the fruit shows signs of baking; then remove 
and when nearly cold pour them into a glass dish and serve cold. 
Apricots are stewed the same way. 

624. Stewed Dried Peaches.— Wash and soak H pound 

dried peaches for several hours in cold water, put them with the 
water they were soaked in over the fire and boil slowly till tender; 
add sufficient sugar to sweeten and let them boil for 2 minutes 
longer ; transfer the fruit to a dish and serve cold. 

625. Stewed Cherries. — Remove the pits from 2 pounds 

cherries; boil 1 cup sugar with 1 pint water to a syrup, put in the 
cherries and boil 3 minutes ; pour them into a dish and serve when 
cold. If the cherries are tasteless add the juice of 1 lemon or use 1 
cup water, 1 cup red wine and a stick of cinnamon. If the cherries 
are small stew them with the pits. 

626. Stewed Quinces. — Pare and cut the quinces into quarters 

and lay them in cold water ; put the peels and cores over the fire, 
cover with water and boil till tender; strain them through a coarse 



176 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

bag made of double cheesecloth ; put the liquor over the fire and 
when it boils add the quinces and boil till they are soft ; then add 
sufRcient sugar to sweeten, boil for a few minutes, pour them into 
a dish and set aside to cool till wanted. 

627. Stewed Dried Apricots* — Wash and soak H pound 
dried apricots for 2 hours in cold water, put them with the water 
they were soaked in over the fire and boil till done ; if the water 
boils away add more ; add lastly sufficient sugar to sweeten and 
serve when cold. Dried cherries are stewed the same way. 

638. Baked Pears. — Remove the eyes from 1 dozen nice, ripe 
pears, put them in a pan with 1 cup water, sprinkle over a little 
sugar and bake till done ; remove them to a glass dish, pour over 
the syrup from pan, sprinkle with sugar and serve cold. 

639. Stewed Pears. — Pare 2 dozen stewing pears (if they are 
large cut them in halves or quarters, if small leave them whole) ; 
put a kettle with 1 cup sugar and 2 cups water over the fire and 
boil a few minutes; put in the pears and stew till done; pour them 
into a dish and serve cold. If the syrup should be too thin a tea- 
spoonful cornstarch wet with cold water may be added and boiled 
with them for a few minutes. A little claret, cinnamon, lemon 
juice and rind may also be added if liked. 

630. Stewed Dried Pears. — Wash and soak 1 pound dried 
pears for 2 hours ; put them over the fire, covered with cold water, 
add a small stick of cinnamon, a little lemon juice and peel and boil 
until nearly done ; then add 5 tablespoonf uls sugar and boil till 
done. 

631. Stewed Dried Prunes. — Wash 1 pound dried prunes in 
several waters, put them in a saucepan, cover with cold water, add 
the juice and rind of 1 lemon and stew till tender; if the water boils 
away add more; when done add 4 tablespoonf uls sugar, pour 
them into a glass dish and serve cold. If the liquor of the prunes 
should be too much or too thin dissolve a little cornstarch in cold 



GOLD PUDDINGS MADE WITH MILK. 177 

water, add it to the prunes and let them boil for a minute ; but oare 
must be taken not to get them too thick. 

632. Prunelles. — Wash }i pound prunelles in several waters 
and soak them for 2 hours in cold water ; then put them over the 
fire with the same water they were soaked in to boil slowly till 
tender; when nearly done add 1 cup sugar and boil till done; pour 
them into a dish and serve when cold. If not sweet enough add 
more sugar. 

633. Stewed Cranberries. — 1 quart cranberries, 2 cups 

sugar and 1 cup water; wash and pick over the cranberries carefully, 
put them in a saucepan with 1 cup water, cover and stew till ten- 
der; then strain them through a sieve; return the pulp to saucepan 
and boil for a few minutes ; add the sugar and stir and boil just 
long enough to melt the sugar ; rinse out a mould with cold water 
and sprinkle with granulated sugar ; pour the cranberries when 
nearly cold into the mould and set it in a cool place to get firm. 

634. Stewed Huckleberries. — Pick over l quart huckleber- 
ries, put them in a colander and rinse with cold water ; put a sauce- 
pan with H cup sugar and H cup water over the fire and add the 
juice of 1 lemon ; when it boils add the huckleberries, cover and 
stew slowly 10 minutes ; add 1 teaspoonf ul cornstarch wet with 
cold water and boil for 1 minute ; remove the berries from the fire, 
add a cup port wine, pour them into a dish and serve when cold. 
They are excellent when eaten with Grerman pancake, fried bread 
or French toast. Or put the huckleberries with H cup water, a 
little lemon juice (or 1 tablespoonf ul vinegar) and a small stick of 
cinnamon in a saucepan over the fire, boil 8 or 10 minutes and 
sweeten them to taste ; break 2 or 3 zwiebacks into small pieces, 
put them in a dish and pour the huckleberries over them ; remove 
the cinnamon and serve when cold. H cup claret added to the 
huckleberries adds greatly to the flavor. 

635. Stewed Bhubarb. — Pare and cut 2 bunches rhubarb in- 
to small pieces and put over the fire in a porcelain-lined or 

12 



178 DESSERTS, AND SALADS. 

agate sanoepan; add H cup water and boil till soft; add l}i cups 
sugar or sweeten to taste ; boil until tLe sugar is dissolved, pour in- 
to a dish and serve cold. 

636. Stewed Bhubarb (with Eggs).— Stew the rhubarb the 
same as in foregoing recipe and take it from the fire; beat 3 eggs 
to a froth and add 2 tablespoonfuls cold water; then stir in the 
rhubarb a little at a time; mix well together and serve cold. If 
stewed rhubarb is too thin add 1 teaspoonf ul cornstarch wet with 
cold water and let it boil 1 or 2 minutes. 

637. Compote of Gooseberries. — Select l quart large goose- 
berries, remove heads and stems and wash and drain them; put 
them in a kettle, cover with boiling water and boil 5 minutes ; pour 
in a colander to drain ; boil 1 cup sugar with H pound water to a 
syrup and add H cup white wine; put the gooseberries in a porce- 
lain or glass dish and pour the syrup over them; serve when cold. 

638. Compote of Strawberries.— Press out the juice from 1 
pint large, ripe strawberries and mix it with 6 tablespoonfuls sugar; 
shortly before serving wash and drain 1 }i quarts large, ripe straw- 
berries, put them into a glass dish, sprinkle over 3 tablespoonfuls 
sugar, pour in half of the cold syrup, shake them up, pour over the 
other half and serve at once. 

639. Compote of Cherries. — ^Remove the pits from 2 pounds 
large cherries; boil IH cups sugar with }i cup water to a syrup, 
put in the cherries and boil 2 minutes; pour them into a dish, cover 
with paper and set in a cool place; when cool drain off the syrup 
and reduce it to one-half by boiling it down ; then set aside to cool; 
in serving put the cherries into a glass or fine porcelain dish and 
pour the cold syrup over them. 

640. Compote of Raspberries.— Pick over carefully IH 

quarts raspberries, put them in a glass dish and set on ice; shortly 
before serving sprinkle over 2 tablespoonfuls sugar; press out the 
juice of 1 pint raspberries, put the liquid with the same quantity of 
sugar over the fire and boil 10 minutes; let it get cold and pour the 



COLD PUDDINGS MADE WITH MILE. 179 

syrup just before serving over the raspberries. Currant juice may 
be used instead of raspberry juice. A compote may also be pre- 
pared with half currants and half raspberries. 

641. Compote of Greengages (or large Egg Plums).— 

Select 3 dozen ripe plums, either greengages or the large egg 
plums, prick them with a needle all around the stem, put them in a 
kettle with boiling water and let them boil 30 minutes; drain them 
on a sieve ; boil 1 H cups sugar with 1 cup water to a syrup ; put 
the plums In a dish, pour the boiling syrup over, cover with paper 
and set them in a cool place for 2 hours ; then drain off the syrup 
and reduce to one-half by boiling it down; arrange the plums 
nicely in a dish and pour the cold syrup over them. 

642. Compote of Plums. — Choose 3 dozen large blue plums, 
cut them open on side, remove the pits and pare off the skins ; boil 
1 cup sugar with 1 cup water, put in the plums and boil a few 
minutes; pour them into a dish, cover with paper and let them cool; 
when cold pour the plums onto a sieve and drain off all the liquid; 
put the syrup over the fire and boil 10 minutes ; when cold put the 
plums into a glass dish and pour the cold syrup over them. 

643. Compote of Oranges. — Pare and cut 10 large oranges' 
into slices, remove the pits and sprinkle 6 tablespoonf uls sugar over 
them ; let them stand 1 hour ; drain off the syrup, put it over the 
firC; add the juice of 1 lemon and boil slowly 8 minutes ; then set 
aside to cool; just before serving pour the syrup over the oranges 
and send to table in a glass dish. 

644. Compote of Prunes. — Wash 1 pound French prunes in 
several waters, put them in a saucepan', add sufficient red wine to 
cover, add a small piece of whole cinnamon and the peel of 1 lemon 
and boil slowly for 2 hours, or until they are soft ; when done add 
4 tablespoonf uls sugar and as soon as melted remove them from the 
fire ; serve when cold in a glass dish. 

645. Compote of Baisins. — Remove the pits from 1 pound 
large raisins, put them in a saucepan with H pint water, H pint 



180 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

Madeira wine and 1 cup sugar and boil them slowly for 1 hour; 
serve in a glass dish when cold. 

646. Compote of Dates. — Cut l pound dates open at the side 
and remove the pits ; put the dates with a little Malaga wine, H 
cup water and 4 tablespoonfuls sugar over the fire and boil slowly 
nearly 1 hour; then serve when cold. 

647. Compote de Marrons. — ^Remove the shell from 2 dozen 
large Italian chestnuts and boil the nuts for a few minutes in water ; 
take them out one at a time and remove the brown skin ; boil H 
pound sugar with H cup water, put in the chestnuts, pour them to- 
gether with the syrup into a stone dish, cover and set them in a 
cool place; next day pour off the syrup, boil it up, add 1 teaspoon- 
f ul vanilla extract and pour it over the nuts ; repeat this once more 
and serve when cold. 

648. Compote Chande de Marrons*— Shortly before serving 

roast 2 or 3 dozen large Italian chestnuts in the oven, remove the 
shells and lay the nuts into a hot dish ; put 1 gill rum in a small 
saucepan with 2 tablespoonfuls sugar; let it get hot, pour over the 
chestnuts, light the rum and bring it burning to table. 

649. Compote of Pineapple. — Cut a large, ripe pineapple 
into thin slices, pare them carefufly and remove the core in center; 
boil 1 cup sugar with H cup water; lay the pineapple slices mto a 
dish and pour the syrup over them boiUng hot ; cover and let them 
stand 2 hours; shortly before serving lay the slices in a glass dish 
and pour the syrup through a fine sieve over them. 

650. Compote of Quinces. — Chose }i dozen large apple 
quinces, pare and cut them into quarters, remove the cores and lay 
the quinces in cold water; put the peels and cores in a kettle, cover 
with water and boil till soft ; strain them first through a coarse bag, 
then through a flannel bag; return the liquor to kettle, add 1 cup 
sugar, boil for a few minutes, put in the quinces and boil till ten- 
der ; put them into a dish and strain the syrup over them. 



COLD PUDDINGS MADE WITH MILK. 181 

651. Compote of Peaches. — ^Cut into halves 20 large, sound 
peaches, pare them carefully and remove the pits ; crack the pits 
open, take out the kernels, scald them in boiling water and remove 
the brown skins ; place a porcelain-lined or agate kettle with 1 
cup sugar and 1 cup water over the fire and boil a few minutes; put 
in the peaches and kernels and boil from 6-8 minutes ; pour them 
into a deep porcelain dish, cover with paper and set aside ; when 
cold put them in a sieve or colander over the kettle the peaches 
were boiled in ; drain off all the liquid and boil it down to one-half ; 
shortly before serving pile the peaches up high in a glass dish and 
pour the syrup over them cold. 

653. Compote of Apricots is made the same as Compote of 
Peaches. 

653. Compote of Pears. — Pare and cut 2 dozen medium sized 
ripe pears into halves, remove the cores and put the pears in cold 
water with the juice of 1 lemon or 2 tablespoonfuls white vinegar; 
place a kettle over the fire with 1 pint water, 10 tablespoonfuls 
sugar, the juice of 1 lemon, half the rind and boil 3 minutes ; remove 
the scum, put in the pears and boil till a straw, will pierce through 
them easily ; then pour them in a deep stone bowl, cover with paper 
and set aside ; when cold drain off the liquor and boil it down to one- 
half ; then set aside to cool ; shortly before serving pile the pears up 
high in a glass dish and pour the syrup over them cold. If large 
pears are taken use a smaller quantity; if small pears are chosen 
use a larger quantity, leave them whole, cut the stems off half way 
and pare them. 

654. Compote de Melons. — Select l large muskmelon (not 
too ripe), cut it in half, remove the seeds with a tablespoon, cut the 
melon into large pieces, pare off the skin and cut each long piece in 
two; put the melon pieces in a saucepan, cover with boiling water 
and boil 5 minutes ; take them out with a skimmer and lay the mel- 
on pieces on a dish to cool ; put a kettle over the fire with 1 pound 
sugar and 1 pint water and boil a few minutes ; put in the melon 
and boil 20 minutes ; pour it into a dish, cover with paper and 



182 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

set in a cool place ; when cold drain off the syrup, return it to ket< 
tie and boil slowly 10 minutes ; then set aside to cool ; pile the melon 
up high in a glass dish and pour the cold syrup over it. A piece of 
green ginger root or the juice of 1 lemon may be boiled with the 
melon. 

655. Compote of Watermelon. — Select a nice, ripe water- 

melon, cut it in half, then into slices, remove the black pits and cut 
the red part into small pieces ; take for 1 quart of such pieces 2 cups 
sugar, 1 pint water, a piece of green ginger and the juice of 1 
lemon ; put sugar, ginger and lemon juice over the fire and boil 5 
minutes ; put in the melon pieces and boil slowly about 20 minutes ; 
pour into a dish and cover with paper ; when cold drain off the 
syrup, return it to kettle and boil 10 to 15 minutes ; arrange the 
melon nicely in a glass dish and pour the cold syrup over it ; remove 
the ginger before sending to table. The white part of the melon 
may be used for preserving. If the melon is a large one part of it 
may be used for compote and the other part cut up into slices and 
served. A third part may be used as a fruit salad. (See Fruit 
Salad.) 

656* Compote of Apples. — Choose medium sized tart apples, 
pare and cut them into halves, take out the cores, round the edges 
and lay them in cold water with lemon juice ; boil 1 pound sugar 
with 1 pint water and the rind and juice of 1 lemon in a wide, low 
saucepan ; put in the apples and let them boil 3 minutes ; then turn 
the apples around, cover the pan and set it on side of stove, where 
they will stop boiling ; let them stand 10 minutes ; then thrust a 
straw through them ; if it goes through easily they are done ; if not, 
boil them for a minute longer ; remove them from fire and set aside ; 
when cold take the apples out of the syrup and lay them on a sieve ; 
boil the syrup down until it thickens ; pile the apples up in a glass 
dish and pour the syrup over when cold. 

657. Compote de Strfility. — Pare, core, cut into quarters 
and then into fine slices 12 large pippin apples ; boil 1 cup sugar 
with 1 cup Rhine wine, 1 cup water, the juice of 1 lemon and 3 



PIES. 183 

ounces finely sliced citron; put in the apples and boil them for a 
few mintues ; then set aside to cool ; soak 1 ounce gelatine in 1 cup 
water 20 minutes; add 1 cup boiling water and stir until dissolved; 
add it to the apples and boil for 1 minute; then remove from fire; 
when cold and beginning to thicken rinse out some small cups or 
forms with cold water, sprinkle each one with granulated sugar, fill 
them }i full of apples and set on ice ; boil ^ cup sugar with H cup 
Rhine wine and a little lemon juice to a syrup and set it in a cool 
place until wanted ; in serving torn the apples out of the cups, put 
them on a round or oval-shaped dish and pour the syrup over them; 
or serve the apples with whipped cream. 



PIES. 

658. Directions for Making Pies.— To succeed in making 
good pastry the following rules should be observed: — Flour should 
be of the best quality, dry and sifted before using. Butter, un- 
less fresh, should be washed several times in cold water and dried 
in a napkin. Lard should be sweet, and is best when tried out from 
leaf lard. If suet is used it should be fresh, chopped fine and freed 
from all skin. During the process of chopping it should be dredged 
with flour. Beef dripping should be clarified, and if the dripping 
has any odor or by-taste a very disagreeable flavor will be im- 
parted to the paste. Strict cleanliness must be observed. All 
utensils used for pastry making should be clean and kept exclusively 
for that purpose. Prepare the cruet as quickly as possible and do 
not touch it with your hands any more than necessary. When the 
crust is ready take a pie plate (agate pie plates are the best) and 
dust it with flour; do not grease it with butter or lard. Cut off a 
portion of the crust, roll it out thin, lay it over the plate, press 
it down lightly with the hand, set the plate in front of you, press 
with the palmid of both hands against the edge of plate and cut the 
paste which hangs over the edge off with your fingers. The plate 
is then ready to receive the ingredients of which the pie is to be 
made. If pumpkin, cocoanut or custard pie is to be made, brush 



184 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

the surface of crust over with beaten egg and sprinkle over 2 
tablespoonf uls finely sifted bread or cracker crumbs ; then fill in the 
mixture. This keeps the crust dry and prevents it from being 
heavy. Pies that are made of stewed or preserved fruit should 
also be treated the same way. For fine meriijgue pies the crust 
should be baked before the mixture is put in. This is done in the 
following manner : — line the pie plate with crust and brush the 
edge over with beaten egg; then roll some pie crust very thin, cut 
it into strips 1 inch wide and cut one side of the strips into scal- 
lops with a knife ; wet the edge of crust on the pie plate with beaten 
egg or water ; then lay the strip around the edge of plate so the 
scallops stand a little above the edge ; next lay some thin, buttered 
brown paper into the plate all over the crust, fill the plate with dry 
peas and bake it in a medium hot oven till crust is done ; then take 
it from the oven, remove paper and peas, fill in the mixture and 
bake again till pie is done ; draw the pie to front of oven, spread 
over the meringue and let it remain in oven for a few minutes ; then 
transfer it to a cool place and serve cold. 1 or 2 quarts of dry 
peas should be kept for this purpose only. They may be put away 
in a box or glass jar and can then be used several times. If the 
peas should at any time become rancid from the butter or lard of 
which the pie crust is made, pour boiling water over them and drain 
and rub thoroughly with a dry towel ; then spread them apart on 
shallow tins and when dry put away until wanted again. Instead 
of peas the pie plate may be filled with pieces of stale bread, which 
can then be used for bread crumbs ; but peas are best for this pur- 
pose. 

659. Pie Crust (quick and good). — 2 cups flour, H teaspoon- 

ful salt, K cup ice water and 1 cup lard ; sift flour and salt in a 
bowl, add the lard and chop it fine with a knife in the fiour ; add 
the water and mix it with the same knife into a stiff paste ; put the 
paste on a floured board and work it for a few minutes with the 
knife; take a portion from it and roll it out thin; line a pie plate 
with it and fill the plate with the ingredients the pie is to be made 
of ; roll out another portion of paste and spread over the top H 



PIES. 185 

tablespoonful lard; lay this over the pie with the lard side up, 
press the paste off which hangs over the edge of plate with your 
hands and place the pie in oven to bake. This crust is excellent, 
inexpensive and quickly made ; sufficient for 2 large pies. 

660. Eich Pie Crust. — }i pound' flour, ^ teaspoonful salt, 
% pound lard and % cup ice water ; sift flour and salt into a bowl, 
add the water and mix it into a paste ; put the paste on a floured 
board and work it thoroughly for 5 minutes, or until it does not 
stick to the hands ; then roll it out into a square about an inch in 
thickness ; also shape the lard into a square, but 1 inch smaller than 
the paste ; lay it in center of paste, fold the paste over and place it 
for yi hour on ice ; then put it on the board again, dust it under 
and over with flour, roll it out 3 times as long as wide with a rol- 
ling pin, fold over one-third to the center, roll over it once, fold 
the other end over that, so the paste is three double, roll over it 
once with the rolling pin, turn the paste around, roll it out again 3 
times as long as wide, fold it up the same way as before and set 
the paste again for H hour on ice ; repeat the folding and rolling 
twice more and let it rest each time for % hour; when ready to 
make the pie roll a portion of the paste out very thin, line pie plate 
as directed with it and fill the plate with the ingredients the pie is 
to be made of ; roll out another portion of the paste, spread the top 
thickly with lard, lay the paste over the pie with the lard side up 
and remove the paste which hangs over the edge of plate by pressing 
against the edge with the palm of your hand ; sufficient for 2 large 
pies. 

661. Fine Pie Crust. — 1 pound flour, 1 teaspoonful salt, H pint 
ice water, % pound lard, 6 ounces butter and the yolk of 1 egg ; 
sift flour and salt in a bowl, add % the lard and chop it fine in the 
flour with a knife ; put the yolk in the ice water and beat it with an 
e^g beater till it foams ; then add it to the flour and mix it with 
the same knife into a stiff paste ; turn the paste onto a floured board 
and roll it into a square piece about an inch in thickness; form the 
remaining lard and the butter also into a square piece, but 1 % 



186 ' DESSEHTS AND SALADS. 

InchcB smaller on all sides ; Uy it in center of paste, fold it over the 
lard and bntter together, first from right and left, then from and 
towards you ; lay the paste onto a plate and let it rest for H hoar 
on ice; then put it on a board, dust under and over viUi flour and 
roll it out 3 times as long as wide, rolling always from you; fold 
over one-third to the center, roll over it once with the rolling pin, 
fold the other end over that, bo the paste is 3 doable, roll over it 
once with a rolling pin, turn the past« around, roll it out again 3 
times as long as wide, fold it up the same as above and set the paste 
again for 3£ hour on ice or in a cool place ; repeat the rolling out 
and folding up twice more and let it rest each time H hour ; after 
the last rolling let it rest 10 minutes and then use as directed; suf- 
ficient for 4 large pies. 

662. Family Pie Cmst.— X pound bntter, 6 ounces lard, 1 
pound flour, 1 cup ice water and H teaspooof ul salt ; sift flour and 
salt into a bowl, add the lard and chop it up with a broad-bladed 
knife into the flour until it is very fine ; next pour in the ice water 
tmd mix it with the same knife into a smooth paste; tnm it onto a 
floured board, dust under and over with flour and roll it out 1 
inch in thickness ; divide the butter into 3 parts ; put 1 part in small 
bits in regular rows all over the paste ; then fold it np, first the right 

I towu^ the left, then the left side towards the right, so the 
i£ has 3 thicknesses; turn it around, roll it out agun the same 
', put over the second part of butter, fold it up and roll out 
in the same way; put over the third part of butter, fold it np 
roll it out twice more; let it rest for 1 hoar on ice or in a cool 
)e ; then use ; while the rolling and folding is going on flour must 
sprinkled under and over the paste; the rolling pin most be kept 
ired, to keep the paste from sticking to it. This paste may be 
]e the day before it is to foe used, and if it stands for S or 3 days 
rill not hart it as long ae the paste is kept in a cool place ; suffi- 
It for i large pies. 

663. Fine Paste for Heat Pies, Patties and Baked Apple 
mplings. — Put 1 pound sifted flour on a paste board, make a 



PIES. 187 

hollow in center and put in the yolks of 3 eggs and H pound but- 
ter ; work this quickly with your hands into a stiff paste, adding by 
degrees a little ice water; then roll it out 1 inch in thickness and 
fold the right and left side to the center, so they meet together ; 
then fold the other two sides over to the center the same way and 
set it for 1 hour on ice or in a cool place ; when that time has ex- 
pired lay the paste onto a floured board, roll it out 3 times as long 
as wide, fold one-third over to the center, roll over it once with the 
rolling pin, fold the other third over that, so the paste has 3 layers, 
roll out again 3 times as long as wide, fold it up the same way, let 
it rest for % hour and roll and fold it up once more ; then use. 
This paste is excellent for chicken, oyster, pigeon or beefsteak pie ; 
also for baked apple dumplings and fine patties ; sufficient for 1 large 
pie or for 9 apple dumplings. 

664. Puff Paste. — 1 pound flour, a pinch of salt, 1 cup ice 
water and 1 pound butter; sift flour in a bowl, add salt and ice 
water and mix it mto a smooth paste ; work it thoroughly on the 
board with your hands for 5 minutes, cover and set it for 20 min- 
utes on ice ; knead the butter well in ice water, to remove the salt, 
and dry it in a napkin ; put the paste onto a floured board and roll 
it out into a square about 1 % inches in thickness ; press the butter 
flat, also into a square, but smaller than the paste ; lay the butter in 
center of paste and fold the paste first from the right and left side ; 
then from you and towards you over the butter together ; turn the 
paste over with the folded side towards the boaixl ; dust under and 
over a little flour and roll the paste out 3 times as long as wide ; 
fold the lower third over the center and roll over it once with the 
rolling pin ; then fold over that the upper third, so the paste is three 
double ; roll over it once with the rolling pin ; turn the paste around, 
roll it out again 3 times as long as wide, fold it again 3 double, lay 
it on a plate and set the paste for 1 hour on ice ; then roll it out 
again and fold the same way twice ; let it rest for % hour on ice ; 
roll and fold it twice more, so the paste has been rolled out and 
folded up 6 times; after the last rolling let it rest for 20 minutes 
and then use. The rolling out and folding together must be done 



188 DESSERTS AND SIX ADS. 

with the greatest care, bo the layers fit exactly over one another, as 
the whole success depends upon this. The paste has attained its 
greatest lightness when rolled and folded together 6 times ; if it is 
rolled out oftener it will loose in lightness ; and if it is to be used 
where lightness is not wanted it must be rolled and folded together 
from 8 to 10 times. Puff paste is best made in a cool place, and if 
handy on a marble slab. 

665. Short Paste (Mftrber Telg— German art).— 3^ pound 

sifted flour, 6 ounces butter, the yolks of 4 eggs, a pinch of salt, 3 
tablespoonf ul sugar and the grated rind of % lemon ; knead the but- 
ter in ice water, to remove the salt, and dry it in a napkin ; put the 
flour on a board, make a hollow in center, put in the yolks, lemon, 
sugar, salt and butter and work it quickly into a smooth dough with 
your hands ; set it on ice for 1 hour before using. Another way : — 
a cup butter, the yolks of 3 eggs, 4 tablespoonf uls cream, % table- 
spoonful sugar, a pinch of salt and % pound flour; mix these ingre- 
dients together the same as above. Short paste (or Mttrber Teig) 
is used a great deal in Grermany the same as pie crust in America, 
and is excellent when made right. A very nice pie is made as fol- 
lows : — Roll the paste out very thin, cover a pie plate with it (one 
which is not very deep), cut off what hangs over the edge of plate, 
spread a thick layer of any kind of fruit marmalade over it, cover 
with a thin layer of the paste and bake in a quick oven ; or bake 
thin layers of the paste the same as Jelly Cake, and when done lay 
2 together with jelly, fruit marmalade or whipped cream between 
them. Another way to use it is : — Roll the paste out ^ of an inch 
in thickness, cut it into rounds with a cake cutter, brush them over 
with beaten egg and sprinkle chopped nuts and sugar over them; 
bake in a medium hot oven and serve with wine. 

666. Neapolitan Paste. — Scald 5 ounces almonds in boiling 

water and let them lay for a few minutes ; then remove the brown 
skins and pound the almonds fine in a wedgewood mortar with the 
yolks of 4 eggs and 1 tablespoonf ul powdered sugar ; sift 1 pound 
flour on a pastry board, make a hollow in center, put in ^ pound 



PIES. 189 

butter, a ponnd powdered sugar, the almonds, 1 whole egg and 1 
yolk and the finely chopped peel of 1 lemon ; work this into a stiff 
paste and set it for 1 hour on ice before using. 

667. Florentinian Paste. — Sift 1 pound flour on a pastry 

board, make a hollow in center, put in 1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 
5 ounces grated chocolate, 2 whole eggs and the yolks of 5 hard 
boiled ^gg» rubbed through a sieve ; add a little cinnamon and va- 
nilla ; knead this into a smooth paste and let it stand for 1 hour in 
a cool place before using. 

668. Almond Paste. — Pour boiling water over H pound 

almonds, remove the brown skins, let the almonds lay in cold water 
for 24 hours and change the water 2 or 3 times ; then pound the 
almonds in a wedgewood mortar with 2 tablespoonfuls water and 
the juice of H lemon ; press them through a sieve and mix with H 
pound powdered sugar into a stiff paste ; put the paste into a por- 
celain-lined saucepan and stir over the fire until it loosens itself 
from bottom of sailcepan ; remove the paste from the fire and when 
cold put some powdered sugar on a pastry board, lay the paste on 
the sugar and work it into a round ball ; then set it in a cool place 1 
hour before using. 

669. Boiled Paste (Pat6 h ehonx).— Place a saucepan with 

1 pint water or milk over the fire and add 1 cup butter, l}i table- 
spoonfuls sugar, H teaspoonf ul salt and the peel of 1 lemon ; as 
soon as it boils sprinkle in slowly, stirring constantly, 1 pint sifted 
flour ; continue stirring until it has formed into a smooth paste and 
loosens itself from bottom of saucepan ; transfer the paste to a dish 
and let it cool ; then mix it by degrees with 8 whole eggs and use 
for cream cakes, chocolate eclairs and other smaU cakes. 

670. Nudels. — Sift 1 cup flour in a bowl and add a pinch of 
salt, a piece of butter the size of a hazel nut, 1 egg and 1 table- 
spoonful water; mix this into a stiff paste and work it well on a 
board so it does not stick to the hands ; then divide it into 4 equal 
parts; roll each part out as thin as paper and let them lay on a 



190 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

board to dry for 10 minutes ; then cut them into strips 1 inch wide ; 
lay 4 strips over one another and cut them as fine as possible, like 
fine straws ; when all are cut scatter the nudels all over the board 
and let them lay till dry; then use or put them away in a box; they 
will keep for some time. The yolks of 2 eggs may be used instead 
of 1 whole egg. Nudels are used for puddings or soufl^es and serve 
as a dessert ; they are also largely used in soup. They should al- 
ways be put into boiling water, soup or milk and boiled 10 minutes 
when wanted for use. 

671* Mlnee Pie. — 1 pound finely chopped boiled beef, H 
pound finely chopped suet, 1 pound well washed and dried currants, 
1 pound stoned raisins, 1 pound finely cut citron, 1 pound sugar, 
H teaspoonf ul salt, the juice and a little grated rind of 2 oranges, 
the juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 pint cider, H pint brandy, 
a pint sherry wine, 1 teaspoonful ground cloves, 1 teaspoonful 
cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful mace, 1 grated nutmeg and 3 pounds finely 
chopped apples ; mix all the ingredients well together and use ; sufficient 
for 6 good sized pies. If this mince meat is to be kept for any length of 
time omit the apples and fill the mince meat into glass jars ; close tight- 
ly and keep them in a cool place. It will then keep all winter. When 
wanted to make pies of take 1 jar at a time and mix the mince 
meat with an equal portion of chopped apples ; line 2 pie plates 
with rich pie crust, fill them with the mince meat, cover with 
same crust as directed (see Directions for Pies), cut a small opening 
in center and one on each side of upper crust and place the pie in a 
medium hot oven to bake ; when done remove it from oven and pour 
a little good brandy in center, sides and openings and serve warm. 
Mince pies will keep in a cool place for two weeks, but they should 
always be put for 10 or 15 minutes in the oven to heat through 
before serving. For a large quantity of mince meat put 8 pounds 
beef off the round in a kettle of boiling water, add 1 tablespoonful 
salt and boil till tender; when done remove the kettle from the 
fire and set aside to cool; then take out the meat, remove all skin, 
fat and hard part and chop the meat as fine as possible ; then weigh 
the chopped meat and take for each pound the same ingredients 



PIES. 191 

as in above recipe ; put it away in well closed jars without the 
apples. 

672« Moek Minee Pie. — 3 finely rolled soda crackers, 1 cap 
well washed currants, H cup stoned raisins, H cup finely cut cit- 
ron, a teaspoonful ground cloves, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, H 
grated nutmeg, H teaspoonful salt, 1 tablespoonful butter, H cup 
sugar, H cup molasses, H cup brandy or wine, the juice of 1 orange 
and a little grated rind, the juice and grated rind of H lemon and 
H pound dried apples; wash and stew the dried apples till tender; 
add the H cup sugar and sufficient boiling water to make 3 cupf uls 
stewed apples ; set aside to cool ; then mbc them first with the rolled 
soda crackers, by degrees with all the other ingredients and use ae 
directed for pies; sufficient for 3 medium sized pies or 2 large ones. 
A good plan is to leave a small opening in center of upper crust 
and when the pies are done pour a little brandy into it. 

673. Apple Fie^ No. 1* — ^Line a pie plate with crust as direct- 
ed (see Directions for Pies) ; pare, quarter and cut greening or pippim 
apples into fine slices ; fill the plate with apples, sprinkle over some 
sugar (about 2 tablespoonfuls for a medium sized pie), cover with 
crust and bake till apples are done and the crust has attained a deli- 
cate light brown color. If the flavor is liked a pinch of cinnamon 
and nutmeg may be added. In the spring of the year the juice of 
H lemon squeezed over the apples of each pie is a great improve- 
ment, as the apples have lost a great part of their flavor. Apple 
pies are best when eaten the same day they are baked. If they 
stand over till next day they should be put in the oven for a'bout 10 
minutes 1 hour before serving. They will then be as good as 
fresh pies; otherwise the crust is apt to be tough. 

674. Apple Pie^ No. 2. — ^Make an apple pie the same as in 
foregoing receipe ; put H tablespoonful butter in small bits over the 
apples, grate over a very little nutmeg and a pinch of cinnamon, 
add no sugar, leave a small opening in center of upper crust and 
bake until done; in the meantime boil 1 cup sugar with H cup 



192 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

water 5 minutes; when the pie is done put a small funnel in the 
opening in center of upper crust and pour the syrup carefully 
through it into the pie ; set the pie aside and serve when cold. The 
pie plate should be deep and large for this pie. 

676. Apple Pie, No. 3. — ^Line a large, deep pie plate with 
fine pie crust, fill the plate with finely cut tart apples, sprinkle 
over H cup sugar, dust over a little flour and cover with crust ; leave 
a small opening in center of upper crust and bake till done ; 10 min- 
utes before the pie is taken from the oven put a small funnel in the 
opening in the center of upper crust and pour carefully H cup 
sweet hot cider through the funnel into the pie ; when done remove 
the pie from oven and serve when cold. Another way is : — Stew 
the apple peels and cores in water till tender ; then strain them 
through a coarse bag, return the liquid to saucepan and boil 10 
minutes ; then add for 1 cup liquid 1 cup sugar, boil 10 minutes 
longer and pour the hot syrup into the pie in place of cider. 

676. Apple-Citron Fie* — ^Line a deep pie plate with rich pie 
crust, fill it with finely cut tart apples, lay small pieces of butter 
between the apples, sprinkle over each pie J4 cup sugar and H cup 
finely cut citron, add 2 tablespoonfuls currant or apple jelly, cover 
with crust and bake till done. 

677. Apple Meringue Pie. — ^Press l pint stewed apples 
through a sieve, sweeten to taste and add the juice of H lemon, a 
little grated nutmeg and the yolks of 4 eggs ; line a pie plate with 
crust, cover with buttered paper, fill the plate with dried peas and 
bake till crust is a light brown ; remove paper and peas, fill in the 
mixture, return pie to oven and bake till done ; in the meantime 
beat the 4 whites to a stiff froth and add 1 tablespoonful powdered 
sugar and a little essence of lemon ; when pie is done draw it to 
front of oven, spread over the meringue and let it remaiti for a few 
minutes longer in oven ; then take it out and serve when cold. 

678. Dried Apple Pie. — Wash H pound dried apples, put 
them in a saucepan with plenty of cold water, cover and place 



PIES. 193 

sancepan over the fire and stew till done; then add 1 cup sugar; 
pour the appleb into a dish and set aside ; when cold line 2 pie 
plates with fine pie crust, brush the surface of crust over with 
beaten egg and sprinkle over some bread or zwieback crumbs ; fill 
in the stewed apples, cover with crust and bake till done. Dried 
peaches or apricots can be used the same way. 

679. Tutti Frutti Pie,— Pare and cut fine 10 large tart 
apples, put them with 2 tablespoonfuls butter in a saucepan over 
the fire and add 6 tablespoonfuls sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls finely cut 
citron, H cup seedless raisins, the same quantity of well washed 
currants and the grated rind of H orange or lemon ; stir this over 
the fire till apples are soft and add H cup currant or apple jelly ; 
line a pie plate with fine pie crust, fill the plate full with the apples, 
cover with crust, in which a small opening should be cut in center, 
and bake till done ; boil the peels and cores of apples with a little 
water till tender ; strain them through a jelly bag, return the liquid 
to saucepan and boil 10 minutes ; add to 1 cup liquid 1 cup sugar 
and boil 5 minutes longer ; when pie is done take it from the oven, 
put a small funnel into the opening in center, pour carefully some 
of the apple syrup through the funnel into the pie and serve when 
cold. 

680. Cherry Pie. — ^line a pie plate with crust and remove the 
pits from 1 quart nice, ripe cherries ; fill the fruit into the plate, 
sprinkle over some sugar and dust over a little flour ; cover with 
top crust, with a small opening in center, and bake in a medium hot 
oven ; in the meantime stew 1 cup cherries in a little water till ten- 
der; strain them, return the liquid to saucepan and boil 5 minutes; 
add to 1 cup liquid 1 cup sugar and continue the boiling for 5 min- 
utes ; remove from fire, add a little brandy or wine and pour this 
syrup, when pie is done, through a funnel into the pie. Another 
way is: — ^Do not stone the cherries; after the plate is lined 
with crust fill it full with cherries, dust over some flour, sprinkle 
them with sugar and add 3 tablespoonfuls water to each pie ; cover 
with crust and bake till done. Another way is : — ^Boil H cup cur- 
rant juice with H cup sugar for 5 minutes and when the pie (made 

18 



194 • DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

like the first one) is done pour the currant syrap through a small 
funnel into the pie. This is an excellent way to give cherries which 
have not much flavor a nice taste. 



681. Banana Pie. — 4 large bananas, 1 cup milk, 4 eggs, H 
cup sugar, H tablespoonf ul melted butter and 1 teaspoonful essence 
of vanilla ; remove the skins and press the bananas through a sieve ; 
mix them with the 4 yolks, sugar, milk, melted butter and vanilla ; 
line a deep pie plate with crust, ornament the edge, lay in a piece 
of buttered brown paper, fill the plate with dry peas or with pieces 
of stale bread and bake till done ; remove it from oven, free the 
plate from paper and peas, return the plate for a few minutes to 
oven again, fill in the banana mixture and bake till done ; in the 
meantime beat the whites to a stiff froth and add 1 tablespoonful 
powdered sugar ; draw the pie to front of oven, spread over the 
meringue, let it remain for a few minutes longer in oven, take it 
out, set it in a cool place and serve ice cold. 

682. Pineapple Pie. — Pare 1 ripe pineapple, remove the eyes 
and hard core in center and chop it fine ; line a deep pie plate with 
fine pie crust, fill it with the finely chopped pineapple, sprinkle over 
1 small cup sugar and dust a little flour over ; cover the pie with crust 
and bake a light brown and well done ; put the eyes and cores of 
the pineapple with 6 greening apples cut into pieces in a saucepan, 
nearly cover them with water and boil till tender; then strain 
through a bag, return the liquid to saucepan and boil 20 minutes ; 
then add for 1 cup liquid 1 cup sugar, boil 5 minutes and fill the 
jelly into tumblers. This makes an excellent pineapple jelly. 

683. Pineapple Pie (with Meringne).— 1 large, ripe pine- 
apple, H cup milk, 1 cup sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 whole egg 
and H tablespoonful butter; pare and grate the pineapple; then 
mix it with the sugar and other ingredients ; melt the butter before 
adding it ; line a deep pie plate with fine pie crust, cover with but« 
tered paper, fill it with dry peas and bake till done ; take it from 
the oven, remove the paper and peas, fill in the pineapple mixture 
and bake till done ; in the meantime make the meringue, as follows :— 



PIES. 195 

Beat the 4 whites to a stiff froth and mix it with 1 tablespoonf ul 
powdered sugar ; when pie is done draw it to front of oven, spread 
over the meringue and return the pie for a few minutes to oven 
again till the meringue is a light brown ; serve ice cold. This will 
make 1 large pie, sufficient for a family of 8 persons. 

684. Prune Pio. — Wash and soak 1 pound prunes for 4 hours 
in cold water, drain them in a colander, remove the stones, put the 
prunes in a dish, pour over 1 cup cold water and let them stand 
over night ; next morning line 2 pie plates with crust, put in the 
prunes with the liquor, sprinkle over some sugar and a little flour, 
cover with top crust and bake till liffht brown and well done. An- 
other way is : — Stew the prunes in a little water, remove the stones, 
sweeten the prunes with sugar, add the juice of H, lemon and finish 
as above. 

685. Peach Pie. — ^Pare and slice some large, ripe peaches; 
line a pie plate with crust, fill it with the peaches, sprinkle over 
some sugar and bake with an upper crust. 

686. Peach Meringue Pie. — Line a large, deep pie plate with 
a rich pie crust, brush the surface of crust over with the beaten 
white of egg and sprinkle over 2 tablespoonf uls finely sifted bread 
or cracker crumbs ; take 1 can preserved peaches, drain off the 
liquor, put them in the pie plate (with the hollow side up), sprin- 
kle over a little flour, a few spoonfuls sugar, pour over some of the 
liquor and bake in a medium hot oven till done ; in the meantime 
make the meringue, as follows : — Beat the whites of 5 eggs to a 
froth, mix them with 2 tablespoonf uls powdered sugar and flavor 
with a little essence of vanilla; when pie is done draw it to front of 
oven, spread over the meringue and bake for a few minutes longer ; 
remove it from the oven and set the pie in a cool place ; serve cold ; 
sufficient for 10 persons. 

687. Peach Mountain Pie. — Pare 1 dozen medium sized 
peaches ; line a large deep pie plate with pie crust, fill the plate 
with the whole peaches, sprinkle over ^ cup sugar, cover with a 
thin crust and bake in a medium hot oven. 



196 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

688. Pluin Fie* — Remove the pits from some ripe plums, 
sprinkle the fruit thickly with sugar and let them stand for H hour ; 
line a pie plate with crust, put in the plums, cover with crust and 
bake till done. 

689. Cranberry Pie. — Wash and stew 1 quart cranberries 
with 1 cup water; when done press them through a colander 
or coarse sieve, return the cranberries to saucepan, add 2 cups sugar 
and boil and stir for 5 minutes ; then set aside to cool ; line a pie 
plate with fine crust, brush the surface of crust over with the 
beaten white of egg and sprinkle over 2 tablespoonfuls finely sifted 
bread crumbs ; put in some of the cranberries, about J4 inch thick, 
and cover with crossbars of crust (lattice-like) ; bake a light brown 
and well done ; serve cold. 

690. Gooseberry Pie. — Top, tail and wash the berries, put 
them into a pie plate lined with crust, sprinkle plenty of sugar 
among them, cover with crust and bake till done. 

691. Blackberry Pie. — Line a deep pie plate with crust; have 
some ripe blackberries washed and drained ; fill the plate with the 
berries, sprinkle over some sugar, pour into each pie 1 tablespoon- 
f ul vinegar, dust over a little flour, cover with crust and bake a light 
brown and well done. 

692. Huckleberry Pie. — Wash and drain some ripe huckle- 
berries ; line a pie plate with crust and cover the bottom of crust 
with 2 tablespoonfuls finely rolled zwieback; next fill the plate with 
the berries, sprinkle sugar between and over the fruit, add a little 
more zwieback, cover with crust and bake in a medium hot oven to 
a light brown and well done ; serve cold dusted with sugar. 

693. Currant Pie. — Wash and strip some ripe currants and 
mix them with the same quantity of sugar; line a pie plate with fine 
pie crust, fill it with the fruit, dust over some flour, cover with top 
crust, press the edges firmly together and bake till done and to a 
light brown. Raspberries and currants may be used together for 
this pie. 



PIES. 197 

694. Rhubarb Custard Pie. — Stew 2 cups finely cut rhubarb 
with 2 cups sugar and H cup water ; when done strain the rhubarb 
through a sieve and mix it with 2 well beaten eggs ; have a deep 
pie plate lined with rich pie crust, fill in the mixture, lay fine strips 
of pie crust across the pie (lattice-like), place the pie in a hot oven 
and bake till the custard is firm and the crust a light brown. 

695. Rhubarb Pie. — Line a pie plate with some rich pi6 crust ; 
remove the skin from some fresh rhubarb and cut it into fine pieces; 
take for every cup rhubarb 1 cup sugar, fill it into the plate and 
dust over a little flour ; cover with crust and bake till done, which 
requires about H hour; serve cold dusted with powdered sugar. 

696. Rhubarb Meringue Pie. — Place a saucepan with 2 cups 
finely cut rhubarb, 2 cups sugar and H cup water over the fire and 
stew 20 minutes ; when done press the rhubarb through a sieve, add 
the beaten yolks of 4 eggs and set aside ; line a deep pie plate with 
crust, ornament the edge, cover with buttered paper, fill the plate 
with dry peas and bake till crust is a light brown ; then remove 
paper and peas, fill the plate with the rhubarb mixture and bake 
about 15 minutes ; beat the 4 whites to a stiff froth and mix them 
with 1 tablespoonf ul powdered sugar ; draw the pie to front of oven, 
spread over the meringue, bake for a few minutes longer and serve 
when cold. 

697. Sweet Potato Pie. — 3 medium sized sweet potatoes, 3 
eggs, 1 pint milk, H cup sugar, 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 teaspoon- 
f ul ginger, >^ teaspoonf ul cinnamon, H grated nutmeg and }i tea- 
spoonful salt ; boil the potatoes until done ; scrape off the skin and 
press the potatoes through a sieve or colander ; mix them first with 
the eggs and salt, then add the melted butter, sugar and spice and 
lastly the milk ; line a large, deep pie plate with rich pie crust, fill 
in the mixture and bake till done ; serve when cold. 

698. Pumpkin Pie. — Pare and cut a medium sized pumpkin 
into pieces, remove the pits, put the pumpkin in a kettle, cover with 
boiling water, add /i tablespoonful salt and boil till tender; when 



198 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

done put the pumpkin into a colander and drain off all the water; 
then press it through the colander ; measure the strained pumpkin 
and take for every quart of it 1 pint milk, H tablespoonful melted 
butter, 1 H cups sugar, 3 eggs, 2 tcaspoonf uls cornstarch mixed 
with the milk and 1 teaspoonf ul ground ginger ; mix all the ingre- 
dients together ; dust some deep pie plates with flour, line them with 
pie crust and brush the surface of crust all over with beaten egg ; 
roll out some pie crust and cut it into strips 1 inch wide ; cut one 
side of the strips into scallops and lay it around the edge of plate 
so the scallops stand a little above the edge of plate ; brush the strip 
over with beaten egg and sprinkle 2 tablespoonfuls fine bread or 
cracker crumbs over the crust (this keeps the pumpkin from sogging 
into the crust) ; fill the plate with the pumpkin mixture, grate over 
the top some nutmeg and bake till done ; when the pumpkin is firm 
to the touch of your finger and a little brown on top the pie is done ; 
remove it from oven, set in a cool place and serve when cold. A 
medium sized pumpkin will make 4 medium sized pies. A good 
plan if the family is small is to fill some of the boiled pumpkin as 
soon as done, boiling hot, into glass jars. Close the jars at once 
and set them in a cool place. When wanted for use open the jar, 
turn the pumpkin into a colander, drain off all the water, press the 
pumpkin through a colander and finbh the same as above. 

699, Custard Pie. — Stir 5 eggs with 5 tablespoonfuls sugar 
to a cream and add 2 tablespoonfuls essence of vanilla or lemon and 
1 quart milk; line a large, deep pie plate with crust, brush the 
surface of crust all over with the beaten white of egg and sprinkle 
over 2 tablespoonfuls finely sifted bread or cracker crumbs ; pour in 
the custard, grate over the top some nutmeg and bake in a hot oven 
till custard is firm. Care must be taken to remove the pie as soon 
as done, otherwise it will curdle. To ascertain when pie is done 
stick the handle of a teaspoon into center of custard. If no milk 
is to be seen and the custard is thick the pie is baked. Remove at 
once and serve ice cold. 

700. Cocoanut Fie. — To make 2 large pies take 3 pints milk, 
6 eggs, 3 cups freshly grated cocoanut, a pinch of salt, IH cups 



PIES. 199 

Bngar and IH teaspoonfnls essence of vanilla; stir sugar and eggs 
to a cream and add the milk, salt and flavoring; take a large cocoa- 
nut, remove the shell without breaking the cocoanut, pare off the 
brown skin and grate the cocoanut ; add 3 cups of the grated cocoa- 
nut to the other ingredients ; line 2 large, deep pie plates with crust, 
brush the surface of crust over with the beaten white of egg and 
sprinkle over 2 tablespoonf uls fine bread or cracker crumbs ; fill the 
plates with the cocoanut mixture and bake in a hot oven till firm 
and a light brown on top ; when done remove it from oven and 
serve cold. 

701. Lemon Coeoanut Pie. — 1 pint milk, 4 large eggs, IH 
cups sugar, the grated rind and juice of 1 large lemon, 2 cups 
freshly grated cocoanut and H tablespoonf ul butter ; put milk and 
butter in a saucepan to boil ; stir the 4 yolks and sugar to a cream 
and add the grated rind and juice of lemon ; when this is well mixed 
add gradually, stirring constantly, the boiling milk ; when cold add 
the grated cocoanut ; in the meantime line a large, deep pie plate 
with pie crust, ornament the edge with a strip of crust cut into 
scallops, brush the surface of crust all over with beaten egg and 
sprinkle over 2 tablespoonf uls fine bread or cracker crumbs ; pour 
in the cocoanut mixture and bake in a hot oven. While the pie is 
baking prepare the following meringue : — Beat the 4 whites to a 
stiff froth and add 1 tablespoonf ul powdered sugar and a little es- 
sence of lemon ; as soon as the pie is done take it from the oven, 
spread over the meringue, make it smooth with a broad-bladed 
knife dipped in water and return the pie to the oven for 2 minutes ; 
then set it in a cool place and serve very cold. 

702. Chocolate Cream Fie. — Place a saucepan with 2 table- 
spoonfuls grated chocolate, 1 pint milk and H cup sugar over the 
fire ; add 2 tablespoonf uls cornstarch and stir and boil for a few 
minutes; remove from the fire and add 1 teaspoonful essence of va- 
nilla, when cold mix it with the yolks of 4 eggs and finish the same 
as Vanilla Cream Pie. 

708. Tanilla Cream Pie. — ^Line a large, deep pie plate with 
crust, lay over it a piece of buttered paper, fill the plate with dry 



200 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

peas or pieces of stale bread and bake till crust is a light brown; 
in the meantime boil 1 cup milk with 1 tablespoonf ul butter and a 
pinch of salt ; mix 2 tablespoonf uls sifted flour with 1 cup cold milk 
to a smooth batter and stir it into the boiling milk ; continue stir- 
ring and boiling for a few minutes ; remove it from fire and let it 
cool a little; stir the yolks of 4 eggs to a cream with dH tablespoon- 
f uls sugar ; stir this into the above mixture and flavor with 1 }i tea- 
spoonfuls essence of vanilla ; when the crust is done remove paper 
and peas, fill in the mixture and bake 10 minutes ; in the meantime 
beat the 4 whites to a stiff froth and mix it with 1 tablespoonf ul 
powdered sugar ; draw the pie to front of oven and spread over the 
meringue ; set the pie for a few minutes in the oven and serve when 
cold. 

704. Orange Cream Pie. — 1 H cups milk, H cup sugar, i a 

tablespoonfuls cornstarch, H tablespoonful butter, 4 eggs, the 
juice of 3 oranges, the grated rind of 1 and a pinch of salt ; put 
cornstarch, butter, milk and salt in a small saucepan, set it in a ves- 
sel of boiling water and stir over the fire till the contents of sauce- 
pan thicken ; then remove it from fire and set aside ; stir the yolks 
of 4 eggs with the ^ cup sugar to a cream, add it to the boiled 
cornstarch and lastly stir in gradually the juice and grated rind of 
oranges; line a deep pie plate with fine pie crust, layover it a piece 
of buttered brown paper, fill the plate with dry peas or pieces of 
stale bread and bake till crust is a light brown ; remove the paper 
and peas, fill in the cream and bake till done ; in the meantime beat 
the 4 whites to a stiff froth and add 1 tablespoonful powdered sugar 
and a little essence of vanilla ; when pie is done draw it to front of 
oven and spread over the meringue ; return it for a few minutes to 
oven; then set the pie in a cool place and serve ice cold. 

706. Lemon Cream Pie. — ^Boil 1 cup milk with H table- 
spoonful butter and a pinch of salt ; mix 1 H tablespoonfuls corn- 
starch with H cup cold milk and stir it into the boiling milk ; con- 
tinue stirring and boil for a few minutes ; remove it from fire and 
set aside to cool ; stir the yolks of 4 eggs with 1 cup sugar fo a 



PIES. 201 

cream and add the grated rind of 1 lemon and the juice of 2 ; stir 
this into the cold cream ; line a deep pie plate with fine pie crust, 
ornament the edge with a border, cover it with buttered brown 
paper, fill the plate with dry peas or pieces of stale bread and bake 
till crust is a light brown ; remove the paper and peas, put in the 
cream mixture and bake about 10 minutes ; in the meantime beat 
the 4 whites to a stiff froth and add 1 tablespoonf ul powdered sugar 
and a little essence of lemon ; when the pie is done draw it to front 
of oven and spread over the meringue ; return the pie for a few 
minutes to oven ; then set it in a cool place and serve cold. 

706. Fine Lemon Fie (with an Upper Crust).— The yolks 

of 3 eggs, 1 whole egg^ 1 cup sugar, the juice and grated rind of 1 
large lemon and H tablespoonf ul butter ; stir the 3 yolks to a cream 
and add the grated peel and juice of lemon ; put the butter in a 
•mall saucepan over the fire ; as soon as melted add the yolks and 
stir the whole over the fire to a creamy thickness ; then remove 
from fire ; when cold mix it with the sugar and the whole egg ; line 
a pie plate (one which is not very deep) with fine pie crust, brush 
the surface of crust over with the beaten white of egg^ sprinkle 
over 2 tablespoonfuls fine bread crumbs and put in the lemon mixt- 
ure ; cover with a thin crust and bake in a medium hot oven to a 
light brown ; serve when cold. 

707. Lemon Fie (plain).— Mix l tablespoonf ul cornstarch 

with H cup cold water, add H cup boiling water, X cup sugar 
and boil for a few minutes; remove from fire, add the juice of 1 
lemon, H the grated rind, 1 egg and set aside to cool ; line a pie 
plate with crust, put in the mixture, cover with a thin, rich crust 
and bake a light brown ; serve cold dusted with sugar. 

708. Lemon Meringue Fie.— 5 large eggs, ii tablespoonf ul 

butter, 1 cup sugar and the juice and grated rind of 1 large lemon ; 
beat 4 yolks to a cream and add the grated rind and juice of lemon ; 
put the butter in a small saucepan over the fire ; as soon as melted add 
the beaten yolks and stir over the fire to a creamy thickness ; re- 
eve it from fire and when cold mix with 1 cup sugar and 1 whole 



202 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

egg; next line a large (not too deep) pie plate with fine pie cmst, 
ornament the edge either with the pastry wheel or lay strips of paste 
around the edge cut on one side into scallops, brush the surface of 
crust all over with beaten egg and sprinkle over a little finely sifted 
bread or cracker crumbs ; put in the lemon mixture, put the pie into 
a medium hot oven and bake till done ; in the meantime beat the 4 
remaining whites to a stiff froth and add 2 tablespoonfuls sifted 
powdered sugar and a little grated lemon peel ; when the pie is done 
take it from the oven just long enough to spread over the meringue; 
return it again to oven for a few minutes and serve when cold. 

709. D'Artois (or Pie of Marmalade).— Divide % pound 

puff paste into 2 parts ; roll one part out into a thin square piece and 
spread over it, }i inch thick, apple mami^lade }i inch from the 
edge ; roll out the remaining half into a piece of same size, hold it 
on the rolling pin and lay over the marmalade ; wet the edge of first 
paste and press the 2 edges together ; cut the top paste with a sharp 
knife into strips, first lengthwise, then crosswise, like lattice work ; 
put in a tin pan and bake in a medium hot oven to a delicate brown ; 
when done dust powdered sugar over and let it remain for a few 
minutes in the oven to glaze ; then remove and serve when cold. 
Any kind of marmalade or cream may be used. 

710. Allnumettes. — Roll out 1 pound puff paste 16 inches 
long and 5 inches wide and spread over a clear icing made as fol- 
lows: — Beat the white of 1 egg to a froth, add 4 tablespoonfuls 
powdered sugar, 2 drops lemon juice and beat it for 5 minutes ; 
spread this over the rolled out paste, let it lay for a few minutesi 
cut it into 8 pieces and bake in a quick oven from 45 to 50 minutes. 

711. Jelly Tarts. — Roll the puff paste 1 inch in thickness and 
cut it into rounds with a biscuit cutter; brush a long tin pan over 
with water, so as just to dampen the pan, and then lay the rounds 
In the pan with the side which was rolled towards the pan and not 
too close together ; brush the top over with beaten egg, being care* 
f ul not to let any of the egg run down the sides ; then dip a smaller 
cake cutter into hot water, press it on each round ^ of an inch deep 



PIES. 203 

to form the cover; the cake cutter must be dipped in the hot water 
each time for each round; then bake them in a hot oven to a golden 
color ; when the tarts are done take them out, cut the cover loose 
with a pointed knife and lift it off ; hollow the tarts out a little with 
your finger ; when ready to serve fill them with jelly. These tarts 
may be filled with stewed oysters or clams. They are then called 
Oyster or Clam Patties. 

712* Tarts. — Line some small patty pans with rich pie crust or 
puff paste and fill them with either fruit marmalade of peaches, 
apricots, cherries or any kind of preserved or stewed fruit ; roll the 
paste which is left out thin and cut it into strips H inch in width ; 
lay them over the tarts like lattice work, brush over with beaten 
egg and bake in a hot oven. 

713. Feaeh Tarts. — Pare and cut some nice, ripe peaches into 
halves and boil them for 5 minutes in sugar syrup ; take them out 
and set aside to cool ; boil the syrup 5 minutes longer ; line some 
patty pans with rich puff paste or pie crust, put into each a piece 
of buttered paper, fill them with dry peas and bake in a hot oven 
till nearly done ; remove the paper and peas and fill each one with 
the peaches and a little syrup ; return them to the oven again and 
bake till done ; serve when cold. 

714. Apple Tarts. — Pare and cut into fine slices H dozen large 
tart apples and put them in a small saucepan with 1 tablespoonfnl 
butter, 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, K cup seedless raisins, currants and 
finely cut citron ; mix, cover and let it simmer over the fire till 
apples are soft, but not broken; remove them from fire; add 2 
tablespoonfuls currant or apple jelly, mix it with the apples and 
finish the same as Cranberry Tarts. 

716. Bice Tarts. — ^Line 12 small forms with rich pie crust or 
puff paste ; put K pound rice with cold water over the fire and boil 
a few minutes ; drain the rice in a colander and rinse with cold 
water; return the rice to saucepan; cover with sweet cream or 
milk, add 1 tablespoonfnl butter and boil till tender ; remove it 



204 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

from the fire and mix the rice with the yolks of 4 eggs, 3 table- 
spoonfuls sugar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract and htstly the 4 
whites beaten to a stiff froth ; fill the rice into the small forms and 
bake in a medium hot oven 20 minutes ; when done take them out 
of the forms, arrange on a long dish with a napkin, dust over with 
powdered sugar and serve either hot or cold. 

716. Tartelettes of Cherries. — Roll out l pound short 

paste >4 inch in thickness and cut out with a tumbler or round cake 
cutter 20 rounds about 2 inches in diameter ; roll out the remaining 
paste and cut it into long strips }i inch wide and ^/^ inch thick; 
lay these strips around the top edge of each round and ornament 
them with the pastry wheel by pressing small dents in it with the 
wheel ; lay around each a strip of white paper, fasten the two ends 
with the white of egg (to keep it in its place) and set them in shal- 
low tins; remove the pits from 2 pounds cherries, mix the fruit 
with sugar and fill them into the tartelettes ; then bake in a hot 
oven ; in the meantime crack the pits of cherries, put them over the 
fire with a little water and boil 5 minutes ; then strain ; mix in a 
bowl 1 cup sour cream with 2 rolled zwiebacks, the yolks of 2 eggs, 
2 tablespoonf uls sugar and 2 tablespoonf uls of the strained water 
from the pits ; when the tartelettes are nearly done fill 1 spoonful 
of the above mixture into each one and return them to oven again 
until the cream is firm ; take them from oven, remove the paper 
and serve when cold dusted with sugar. 

717. Tartelettes of peaches, plums or apricots are made the 
same as cherries, but without the cream. 

718. Tartelettes d'aprieots. — ^Line % dozen small patty pans 
with puff paste or fine pie crust and fill them half full with apricot 
marmalade ; cut 9 apricots in halves, peel them and remove the 
pits ; boil the apricots for 2 minutes in sugar syrup, lay a half apri- 
cot into each tartelette and bake in hot oven ; in the meantime boil 
the syrup until thick; crack the pits, take out the kernels, scald 
them in boiling water, remove the brown skins and divide them into 



PIES. 205 

halveB ; when tLe tartelettes are done take them out of the form, 
lay onto each one 2 halves of the kernels and poor a little of the 
cold syrup into each one ; serve when cold. 

719. Tartelettes of peaches, plums, apples, cherries, currants, 
raspberries or gooseberries are made the same way as apricots. 

720. Tartelettes of Strawberries.— Roll out H pound puff 

paste about ^/g inch in thickness and cut out with a round cake cut-* 
ter 10 rounds; lay them into 10 small buttered patty pans and press 
the paste in evenly ; let the paste stand a little higher than the pan ; 
mix flour and water to a stiff dough, divide it into 10 equal parts the 
size of a walnut, roll it out into balls and put into each form a ball; 
press them in firmly and bake in a hot oven ; when dotie draw them 
to front of oven, dust over with sugar and return them to oven 
again so they obtain a glaze ; then remove the inside water dough 
and set the tarts aside to cool ; roll out thin the remaining puff paste 
and cut out small rings ; lay them on shallow buttered tins, dust 
them with sugar and bake in a slow oven ; press H pint strawberries 
through a sieve and mix them with 3 tablespoonfuls powdered 
sugar; wash and drain H quart strawberries, put them in a dish, 
pour the mashed strawberries over the whole fruit and fill them in- 
to the tartelettes ; lay onto each one 2 rings and serve th^m on a 
napkin. Raspberries and currants stewed together may be used 
instead of strawberries. Stewed cherries, peaches, apricots, plums 
or any kind of preserved fruit may also be used. 

721. Fleurons of Puff Paste.— Roll the puff paste out Vs 

inch in thickness, cut it with a cake cutter into shapes of half moons, 
lay them on tins, brush over with beaten egg and bake in a quick 
oven. Fleurons are used for garnishing dishes. 

722. Fanchonnettes de creme. — Line 12 small patty forms 

with short paste (MtlrberTeig) and put into each one a thin layer of 
fruit marmalade ; put 4 whole eggs into a saucepan and beat them 
to a froth ; add 1 pint sweet cream or milk, 3 tablespoonfuls sifted 
flour, a pinch of salt, 1 heaping tablespoonf ul butter and 4 table- 



206 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

spoonfuls BQgar; stir this over the fire till it boils; then add 10 mac- 
aroons rolled fine; fill the patty forms % full with the boiled cream 
when cold and bake in a medium hot oven ; when done take them 
out of the form and fill them full with the remaining cream ; when 
cold spread over some marmalade, squirt over the top a little mer- 
ingue and serve on a napkin. 

733. D'Artois Meringues. — ^Prepare % pound puff paste, 
roll out and fold over 10 times ; line a large pie plate with it, spread 
over a thick layer of pineapple marmalade and bake in a medium 
hot oven ; when done draw it to front of oven and spread over a 
thick meringue ; cut the pie into pieces, move them a little apart, 
lay on each one a few strips of blanched almonds, dust over some 
sugar and set for 15 minutes into a cool oven to dry. 

724. Cond6^. — Chop fine 6 ounces blanched almonds and mix 
them with 3 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar and the beaten whites 
of 1 or 2 eggs ; roll out some rich puff paste very thin, spread over 
the almond mixture and dust over some powdered sugar ; cut them 
into finger lengths 2 inches wide and bake in a slow oven. 

725. Small Royal Cakes. — ^Prepare a puff paste and roll it 

out thin about M of an inch in thickness ; mix 6 ounces powdered 
sugar with the beaten whites of 2 eggs ; spread this over the rolled 
out paste, cut it into strips of 1 >ie inches wide and 3 H inches long, 
lay them in shallow tin pans and bake in a slow oven to a delicate 
brown. 

726. Pat6 il choiix. — Place a saucepan over the fire with 1 
pint water or milk, }i pound butter, 1 ^i tablespoonfuls sugar, the 
grated rind of 1 lemon and a pinch of salt ; as soon as it boils add 
slowly yi pound sifted flour, stirring constantly ; stir until it forms 
into a smooth paste and loosens itself from bottom of saucepan ; 
transfer the paste to a dish and when cooled off a little mix it by 
degrees with 6 or 8 eggs. This paste should be soft, but must not 
run apart when dropped on a tin. 



piBS. 207 

727. Choeolate Eelairs. — ^Prepare a p&t4 k chonx, put it into 
a pastry bag or paper funnel and squirt it upon buttered tins in long 
narrow cakes 4 inches long and 1 inch wide ; brush over with beaten 
egg and bake in a medium hot oven ; when done bmsh them over 
with boiled chocolate glaze and set for a few minutes in oven again ; 
then set them aside in a cool place ; shortly before serving cut each 
one open on the side and fill with vanilla cream. For cream cakes 
drop this mixture (by tablespoonf uls) onto buttered tins, not too 
close together and in the form of round cake ; when cold slit them 
open on one side and fill with vanilla cream. 

728. Canapes. — ^Prepare a puff paste and roll it out H inch in 
thickness ; cut it out into square pieces of 2 inches wide, cut these 
again into strips of H inch wide, lay them with the cut side in a 
shallow tin pan, not too close together, and bake in a hot oven; 
when done draw them to front of oven, dust with sugar and let 
them remain in oven a few minutes longer to glaze ; put two and 
two together with jelly between ; or they may be served single. 

729. Canelous. — ^Prepare 1 pound puff paste and roll it out 8 
times, instead of 6 ; then take about 18 oonnelonghdlzer (they consist 
of round pieces of wood about 5 inches long and a finger thick, and 
can be bought at wholesale confectioneries) and rub each piece of 
wood over with butter ; roll the paste out very thin and cut it into 
strips of about 1 inch wide and 9 inches long ; wind a strip of the 
paste around each piece of wood, snake-like, brush them over with 
beaten eggy lay them in shallow tins and bake in a quick oven ; 
when done remove the pieces of wood and when cold fill the canne- 
lous with whipped cream flavored with vanilla and sweetened with 
sugar. 

730. Tole-au-Tent. — Carefully prepare 1 pound puff paste 
and roll and fold it 6 times ; great care must be taken in 
doing this, as the whole result depends upon it; after the last 
rolling let it lay in summer H hour on ice, in winter in a cold place; 
when ready to use roll the paste out 1 inch in thickness, place the 
dish on which the vol-au-veut is to be served upside down onto the 



208 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

paste and cut off the paste from the dish ; turn the paste around und 
lay it on a tin which has been dampened with water; mate with tlie 
back of a knife a few dents in it around the edge, brush the top 
over with beaten egg and make with the point of a knife a slight 
incision in the paste all round the top about 1 H inches from the 
edge ; this forms the cover ; bake in a very hot oven ; do not open 
the oven for 10 mmutes; then open and if the vol-au-veut is a light 
brown cover with paper and bake from ^ to 1 hour ; when done 
remove the cover, put the vol-au-veut onto the dish it was made to 
fit and set it for a few minutes in the oven to dry; then fill with 
either ragouts or fricasseed chickens, birds, rabbits or pigeons, put 
on the cover and serve ; or fill it with fresh or preserved fruit and 
serve as a dessert. 

731. Tole-au-yent (with Strawberries and Whipped 

Cream). — Roll out some carefully made puff paste X inch in thick- 
ness and cut it out with a fluted cutter the desired shape, either 
round or oval ; make a slight incision in the paste 1 inch from the 
edge and bake in a very hot oven ; when nearly done brusli it over 
with white of egg^ dust with sugar and put it back in the oven to 
glaze ; when done remove the interior, or soft crumbs, and fill the 
vol-au-veut shortly before serving with fresh strawberries sweetened 
with sugar and cover them with whipped cream. 

732. Tole-au-vent (with Currants and Raspberries.)— 

Prepare a vol-au-veut the same as in foregoing recipe ; strip some 
large, ripe, cheiTy currants from their stems, put them in a colan- 
der with the same quantity of raspberries, let cold water run over 
and drain them well ; put the fruit into a dish with plenty of sugar, 
mix them up with 2 silver forks and let it stand in a cool place for 
several hours ; shortly before serving put the fruit into the vol-au- 
veut, put over the cover, again dust with sugar and serve. 

733. Toie-an-yent (with Peaehes and Cream) is made the 

same as strawberries. Preserved pineapples, apricots, cherries or 
plum^ may be used in the same manner ; also oranges peeled and 
cut into slices, freed from their pits and well sugared. Put into 



PIES. 193 

saucepan over the fire and stew till done ; then add 1 cup sugar ; 
pour the appleb into a dish and set aside ; when cold line 2 pie 
plates with fine pie crust, brush the surface of crust over with 
beaten egg and sprinkle over some bread or zwieback crumbs ; fill 
in the stewed applet, cover with crust and bake till done. Dried 
peaches or apricots can be used the same way. 

679. Tutti Frutti Pie.— Pare and cut fine 10 large tart 
apples, put them with 2 tablespoonf uls butter in a saucepan over 
the fire and add 6 tablespoonf uls sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls finely cut 
citron, H cup seedless raisins, the same quantity of well washed 
currants and the grated rind of H orange or lemon; stir this over 
the fire till apples are soft and add H cup currant or apple jelly ; 
line a pie plate with fine pie crust, fill the plate full with the apples, 
cover with crust, in which a small opening should be cut in center, 
and bake till done ; boil the peels and cores of apples with a little 
water till tender; strain them through a jelly bag, return the liquid 
to saucepan and boil 10 minutes ; add to 1 cup liquid 1 cup sugar 
and boil 5 minutes longer; when pie is done take it from the oven, 
put a small funnel into the opening in center, pour carefully some 
of the apple syrup through the funnel into the pie and serve when 
cold. 

680« Cherry Pie. — Line a pie plate with crust and remove the 
pits from 1 quart nice, ripe cherries ; fill the fruit into the plate, 
sprinkle over some sugar and dust over a little flour ; cover with 
top crust, with a small opening in center, and bake in a medium hot 
oven ; in the meantime stew 1 cup cherries in a little water till ten- 
der; strain them, return the liquid to saucepan and boil 5 minutes; 
add to 1 cup liquid 1 cup sugar and continue the boiling for 5 min- 
utes ; remove from fire, add a little brandy or wine and pour this 
syrup, when pie is done, through a funnel into the pie. Another 
way is: — ^Do not stone the cherries; after the plate is lined 
with crust fill it full with cherries, dust over some flour, sprinkle 
them with sugar and add 3 tablespoonfuls water to each pie ; cover 
w^ith crust and bake till done. Another way is : — Boil H cup cur- 
rant juice with }4 cup sugar for 5 minutes and when the pie (made 

18 



194 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

like the first one) is done pour the currant syrup through a small 
funnel into the pie. This is an excellent way to give cherries which 
have not much flavor a nice taste. 



681. Banana Pie. — i large bananas, 1 cup milk, 4 eggs, H 
cup sugar, H tablespoonful melted butter and 1 teaspoonful essence 
of vanilla ; remove the skins and press the bananas through a sieve ; 
mix them with the 4 yolks, sugar, milk, melted butter and vanilla; 
line a deep pie plate with crust, ornament the edge, lay in a piece 
of buttered brown paper, fill the plate with dry peas or with pieces 
of stale bread and bake till done ; remove it from oven, free the 
plate from paper and peas, return the plate for a few minutes to 
oven again, fill in the banana mixture and bake till done ; in the 
meantime beat the whites to a stiff froth and add 1 tablespoonful 
powdered sugar ; draw the pie to front of oven, spread over the 
meringue, let it remain for a few minutes longer in oven, take it 
out, set it in a cool place and serve ice cold. 

682. Pineapple Pie. — ^Pare 1 ripe pineapple, remove the eyes 
and hard core in center and chop it fine ; line a deep pie plate with 
fine pie crust, fill it with the finely chopped pineapple, sprinkle over 
1 small cup sugar and dust a little flour over ; cover the pie with crust 
and bake a light brown and well done ; put the eyes and cores of 
the pineapple with 6 greening apples cut into pieces in a saucepan, 
nearly cover them with water and boil till tender; then strain 
through a bag, return the liquid to saucepan and boil 20 minutes ; 
then add for 1 cup liquid 1 cup sugar, boil 5 minutes and fill the 
jelly into tumblers. This makes an excellent pineapple jelly. 

683. Pineapple Pie (with Meringne). — 1 large, ripe pine- 
apple, H cup milk, 1 cup sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 whole egg 
and H tablespoonful butter; pare and grate the pineapple; then 
mix it with the sugar and other ingredients ; melt the butter before 
adding it ; line a deep pie plate with fine pie crust, cover with but« 
tered paper, fill it with dry peas and bake till done ; take it from 
the oven, remove the paper and peas, fill in the pineapple mixture 
and bake till done; in the meantime make the meringue, as follows:—* 



PIES. 195 

Beat the 4 whites to a stiff froth and mix it with 1 tablespoonf ul 
powdered sugar ; when pie is done draw it to front of oven, spread 
over the meringue and return the pie for a few minutes to oven 
again till the meringue is a light brown ; serve ice cold. This will 
make 1 large pie, sufficient for a family of 8 persons. 

684. .Prune Pie. — Wash and soak 1 pound prunes for 4 hours 
in cold water, drain them in a colander, remove the stones, put the 
prunes in a dish, pour over 1 cup cold water and let them* stand 
over night ; next morning line 2 pie plates with crust, put in the 
prunes with the liquor, sprinkle over some sugar and a little flour, 
cover with top crust and bake till light brown and well done. An- 
other way is : — Stew the prunes in a little water, remove the stones, 
sweeten the prunes with sugar, add the juice of H lemon and finish 
as above. 

685. Peach Pie. — ^Pare and slice some large, ripe peaches; 
line a pie plate with crust, fill it with the peaches, sprinkle over 
some sugar and bake with an upper crust. 

686. Peach Meringue Pie. — Line a large, deep pie plate with 
a rich pie crust, brush the surface of crust over with the beaten 
white of egg and sprinkle over 2 tablespoonf uls finely sifted bread 
or cracker crumbs ; take 1 can preserved peaches, drain off the 
liquor, put them in the pie plate (with the hollow side up), sprin- 
kle over a little flour, a few spoonfuls sugar, pour over some of the 
liquor and bake in a medium hot oven till done ; in the meantime 
make the meringue, as follows : — Beat the whites of 5 eggs to a 
froth, mix them with 2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar and flavor 
with a little essence of vanilla ; when pie is done draw it to front of 
oven, spread over the meringue and bake for a few minutes longer; 
remove it from the oven and set the pie in a cool place ; serve cold ; 
sufficient for 10 persons. 

687. Peach Mountain Pie. — Pare 1 dozen medium sized 
peaches ; line a large deep pie plate with pie crust, fill the plate 
with the whole peaches, sprinkle over }i cup sugar, cover with a 
thin crust and bake in a medium hot oven. 



196 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

688. Plum Pie. — ^Remove the pits from some ripe plums, 
sprinkle the fruit thickly with sugar and let them stand for H hour; 
line a pie plate with crust, put in the plums, cover with crust and 
bake till done. 

689. Cranberry Pie. — Wash and stew 1 quart cranberries 
with 1 cup water; when done press them through a colander 
or coarse sieve, return the cranberries to saucepan, add 2 cups sugar 
and boil and stir for 5 minutes ; then set aside to cool ; line a pie 
plate with fine crust, brush the surface of crust over with the 
beaten white of egg and sprinkle over 2 tablespoonfuls finely sifted 
bread crumbs ; put in some of the cranberries, about H inch thick, 
and cover with crossbars of crust (lattice-like) ; bake a light brown 
and well done ; serve cold. 

690. Gooseberry Pie. — Top, tail and wash the berries, put 
them into a pie plate lined with crust, sprinkle plenty of sugar 
among them, cover with crust and bake till done. 

691. Blackberry Pie. — Line a deep pie plate with crust; have 
some ripe blackberries washed and drained ; fill the plate with the 
berries, sprinkle over some sugar, pour into each pie 1 tablespoon- 
f ul vinegar, dust over a little flour, cover with crust and bake a light 
brown and well done. 

692. Huckleberry Pie. — Wash and drain some ripe huckle- 
berries ; line a pie plate with crust and cover the bottom of crust 
with 2 tablespoonfuls finely rolled z'wieback ; next fill the plate with 
the berries, sprinkle sugar between and over the fruit, add a little 
more zwieback, cover with crust and bake in a medium hot oven to 
a light brown and well done ; serve cold dusted with sugar. 

693. Currant Pie. — Wash and strip some ripe currants and 
mix them with the same quantity of sugar ; line a pie plate with fine 
pie crust, fill it with the fruit, dust over some flour, cover with top 
crust, press the edges firmly together and bake till done and to a 
light brown. Raspberries and currants may be used together for 
this pie. 



PIES. 197 

694. Rhubarb Custard Pie. — Stew 2 cups finely cut rhubarb 
with 2 cups sugar and H cup water ; when done strain the rhubarb 
through a sieve and mix it with 2 well beaten eggs ; have a deep 
pie plate lined with rich pie crust, fill in the mixture, lay fine strips 
of pie crust across the pie (lattice-like), place the pie in a hot oven 
and bake till the custard is fi^ and the crust a light brown. 

695. Rhubarb Pie. — Line a pie plate with some rich pie crust; 
remove the skin from some fresh rhubarb and cut it into fine pieces ; 
take for every cup rhubarb 1 cup sugar, fill it into the plate and 
dust over a little flour ; cover with crust and bake till done, which 
requires about H hour ; serve cold dusted with powdered sugar. 

696. Rhubarb Meringue Pie. — Place a saucepan with 2 cups 
finely cut rhubarb, 2 cups sugar and H cup water over the fire and 
stew 20 minutes ; when done press the rhubarb through a sieve, add 
the beaten yolks of 4 eggs and set aside ; line a deep pie plate with 
crust, ornament the edge, cover with buttered paper, fill the plate 
with dry peas and bake till crust is a light brown ; then remove 
paper and peas, fill the plate with the rhubarb mixture and bake 
about 15 minutes; beat the 4 whites to a stiff froth and mix them 
with 1 tablespoonful powdered sugar; draw the pie to front of oven, 
spread over the meringue, bake for a few minutes longer and serve 
when cold. 

697. Sweet Potato Pie. — 3 medium sized sweet potatoes, 3 
. eggs, 1 pint milk, H cup sugar, 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 teaspoon- 

f ul ginger, H teaspoonful cinnamon, H grated nutmeg and H tea- 
spoonful salt ; boil the potatoes until done ; scrape off the skin and 
press the potatoes through a sieve or colander ; mix them first with 
the eggs and salt, then add the melted butter, sugar and spice and 
lastly the milk ; line a large, deep pie plate with rich pie crust, fill 
in the mixture and bake till done ; serve when cold. 

. 698. Pumpkin Pie. — ^Pare and cut a medium sized pumpkin 
into pieces, remove the pits, put the pumpkin in a kettle, cover with 
boiling water, add ^i tablespoonful salt and boil till tender ; when 



230 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

792. Strawberry Dnmplings (another way).— 2 cnps pre- 
pared flour, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 tablespoonful sugar 

and 1 cup milk or water ; mix this into a stiff batter and stir in 
lastly 1 cup well washed and drained berries and finish the same as 
Orange Dumplings ; serve with the following sauce : — Stir 2 table- 
spoonfuls butter with 1 cup powdered sugar to a cream and add the 
yolks of 2 eggs and 3 tablespoonf uls white wine ; when this is well 
mixed stir 1 cup nice, ripe strawberries into it ; put sauce into a 
glass dish ; have the whites beaten to a stiff froth, spread it over 
the top of sauce and set nice, large strawberries around the edge of 
dish. These dumplings may be made of all kinds of fruit — ^peaches, 
cherries, plums, pears or apricots. 

793. Fine Fruit Dnmplings. — Pare and quarter some 

peaches, apples or pears and boil them in sugar syrup until done, 
but in such a way that the pieces stay whole ; then take them out 
with a skimmer and lay on a long dish ; in the meantime prepare 
some dumplings as follows : — Place 1 cup milk with 1 tablespoonful 
butter over the fire ; as soon as it boils stir in 1 cup sifted flour and 
stir constantly until it has formed into a smooth dough and loosens 
'itself from the bottom of saucepan ; after the dough has cooled stir 
1 tablespoonful butter to a cream and add by degrees the yolks of 
3 eggs, the dough, 1 tablespoonful dry farina and lastly the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth ; form the mixture with a tablespoon into 
dumplings and drop them into the boiling syrup in which the fruit 
was boiled ; when done take them out with a skimmer and lay in a 
circle around the fruit ; pour the syrup over them and serve. These 
dumplings may also be made with dried fruit. 

794. Plain Suet Dnmplings. — 1 pint bread crumbs soaked 

in 1 cup milk, }i pound suet freed from strings and chopped fine, 4 
eggs (whites and yolks beaten separately), 1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 
teaspoonful salt and 1 cup prepared flour or flour with H teaspoon* 
f ul Royal baking powder ; work into a smooth dough and shape 
with floured hands into dumplings; boil them inclosed in little, 
square pieces of muslin or dumpling cloths that have been 



CAKES. 231 

previoofily dipped in hot water, wrung out and floured on the inside ; 
boil 40 minutes and serve with strawberry, cherry or wine sauce ; or 
stir any kind of fresh fruit into % pint hard sauce and serve it with 
the dumplings. 

796. Plain Dumplings (with stewed Apples).— Pare, core 

and cut into quarters 6 tart apples ; boil 1 cup sugar with 2 cups 
water to a syrup, put in the apples and boil till tender, but do not 
allow them to break; when done take the apples out with a 
skimmer and lay them on a dish; mix 1 cup prepared flour 
with 1 egj^y 1 teaspoonful butter and a little water into a thick bat- 
ter, drop a small portion of the mixture with a teaspoon into the 
boiling apple syrup and boil 5 minutes; remove them, lay in a 
circle around the apples and pour the syrup over them. A few 
slices of lemon may be boiled with the syrup. This dish can also 
be made of pears, dried apples or apricots. 

796. Apple Dumplings (with Rice).— Place H pound rice 
in a saucepan over the fire with cold water, boil 3 minutes and drain 
in a colander, rinsing with cold water ; then put it back on the fire 
in the same saucepan with 1 pint milk, ^ teaspoonful salt, H tea- 
spoonful sugar and a little piece of butter; boil until thick; remove 
from the fire and mix it with 2 well beaten eggs ; dip the dumpling 
cloths in hot water, wring them out and flour well inside ; put 2 
spoonfuls of the boiled rice upon each cloth, spread it out smooth 
and lay in the center of each a peeled and cored apple ; fill the open- 
ing left by the removal of the core with currant jelly or sugar ; draw 
the 4 comers of the cloth together, bring them to the top of the 
apple and fasten with pins ; drop them into boiling water and boil 
yi hour^ serve with sweet cream or vanilla, fruit or claret sauces. 

 

CAKES. 

797. Plain Cake. — 1 cup butter, l cup milk, 2 cups sugar, 3 
cups prepared flour, 4 eggs and the grated rind of 1 lemon; 
stir butter and sugar to a light white cream with your right hand ; 
then stir with a silver spoon, add the eggs, 1 at a time, stirring a 



232 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

few minutes between each addition ; next add the sifted flonr and 
milk alternately; batter a large, ronnd cake pan and line it with 
battered paper ; pour in the cake mixture and bake in a medium hot 
oven for 1 hour; to ascertain if cake is done thrust a knitting needle 
into center of cake ; if it comes out clean the cake is done ; if not, 
the baking must be continued ; when done remove the cake from 
oven and let it stand 10 minutes; then turn it out of^ pan, remove 
the paper and set the cake in a cool place or put it when cold in a 
tin cake box. If plain flour is used take 1 ^ teaspoonfuls baking 
powder and sift it with the flour. Measure with a cup which holds 
hall a pint. 

798. Marble Cake. — Take the same mixture as for Plain Cake 
and divide it into 3 equal parts ; add to one part some red sugar or 
a little prepared cochineal, to give it a fine pink tint ; stir into an- 
other part 3 tablespoonf uls grated chocolate and leave the third part 
plain ; butter a large cake pan and line it with buttered paper ; fill 
the pan about H inch deep with the plain batter and drop upon this 
in 3 or 4 places 1 spoonful of the dark and pink batters; pour in 
more plain batter; then drop in the pink and brown the same way; 
continue until all is used; the pink may be omitted if the coloriilg 
is not handy ; bake the same as Plain Cake ; when done ice the cake 
with boiled chocolate glaase. 

799. Nut Cake. — ^Prepare a cake batter the same as for Plain 
Cake, stir in 1 pint shelled walnuts broken into pieces and finish the 
same as Plain Cake ; or stir 3 cups freshly grated cocoanut into the 
plain cake batter ; or stir 1 pint shelled hickory nuts into the plain 
cake batter; or almonds cut into strips; Brazil nuts may also be 
used. 

800. Citron Cake. — Cut H pound citron into fine slices and 
prepare a cake batter the same as for Plain Cake ; butter ^ large, 
round pan and line it with buttered paper; pour in a layer of cake 
batter ; then a layer of sliced citron ; then batter and citron again ; 
continue until all is used ; bake in a medium hot oven till done, 



CAKES. 233 

which will take about IH hours; if the oven should -be too hot cover 
the cake with buttered paper. 

801. Lady Cake. — 1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 
3 cups prepared flour, the whites of 8 eggs and the grated 
rind and juice of 1 lemon ; stir butter and sugar with your hand to 

a light white cream and beat the whites to a stiff froth ; take a silver 
spoon and stir the whites, the lemon, sifted flour and milk alter- 
nately into the creamed butter and sugar ; butter a large mould and 
line it with buttered paper ; pour in the mixture and bake 1 hour. 
Note. — H pound blanched almonds cut into strips may be stirred 
into the cake mixture and flavored with vanilla; or 1 pint shelled 
walnuts broken into pieces or H pound finely cut citron can be stir- 
red into the batter and flavored with essence of almonds ; ice with 
clear icing. 

802. Dutchess Cake. — 1 cup butter, 1 cup milk, 2 cups sugar, 
3 cups prepared flour, the yolks of 8 eggs and 2 teaspoon- 
f uls peach extract ; stir butter and sugar with the right hand to a 
light white cream ; then stir with a spoon and add the yolks, 2 at a 
time, stirring a few minutes between each addition ; next add the 
flavoring, the sifted flour and milk alternately ; butter a large, round 
cake pan and line it with buttered paper ; pour in the cake mixture 
and bake in a medium hot oven 1 hour. Note. — 1 pint shelled 
walnuts broken into pieces may be stirred into this cake mixture or 
Brazil nuts may be used ; also peanuts broken into pieces. 

803. Fruit Cake. — Prepare a cake batter the same as for 
Plain Cake ; remove the stones from ^ pound raisins ; cut H pound 
citron into fine slices and mix the raisins and citron with ^i pound 
well washed and dried currants ; dust the fruit with flour, stir it in- 
to the cake mixture and finish the same as Plain Cake. 

804. Rich Fruit Cake. — 2 pounds stoned raisins, 2 pounds 
seedless raisins, 2 pounds well washed and dried currants, 1 pound 
finely sliced citron, 1 pound butter, 14 pint good brandy, 1 pint 
molasses, 1 pound brown sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls grated nutmeg, 2 



234 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

teaspoonfuls ground cinnamon, cloves and mace, 12 eggs and 1 
pound flour sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder; dredge the 
fruit with flour; stir butter and sugar with the hand to a light 
white cream ; then stir with a wooden spoon and add the eggs, 1 at 
a time, stirring a few minutes between each addition ; next add the 
molasses, brandy, spice and sifted flour and lastly stir in the fruit; 
butter 2 large, round cake pans and line them with brown paper; 
fill in the mixture and bake in a medium hot oven from 3 to 4 
hours. Great care must be taken that the oven is just right, as the 
cake bums very easily. 

805. Orange Layer Cake. — H cup butter, 1 cup sugar, H 

cup milky the whites of 3 eggs, IH cups prepared flour and 
the grated rind of H orange; stir butter and sugar with your 
right hand to a light white cream and add the grated orange rind; 
beat the whites to a stiff froth ; then add them alternately with the 
sifted flour and milk to the above mixture ; butter 2 large jelly 
cake tins and line them with buttered tissue paper ; put an equal 
portion of the cake batter into each pan ; spread it evenly with a 
broad-bladed knife dipped in water and bake the cakes in a medium 
hot oven till a light brown and done, which will take from 15 to 20 
minutes ; to ascertain when cakes are done thrust a knitting needle 
into the center of them ; if it comes out clean the cakes are done ; 
if any dough adheres to it the baking must be continued ; as soon 
as the cakes are done remove them from the oven ; lay a clean 
cloth or paper on the kitchen table and dust over it some powdered 
sugar; turn the cakes out of pans upside down onto the cloth and 
let them lay till cold ; in the meantime prepare the filling, as fol- 
lows : Put in a small saucepan the juice of 1 orange, 1 teaspoonf ui 
lemon juice, a little grated orange peel, 1 teaspoonful butter and 
the yolks of 3 eggs ; set the saucepan in a vessel of boiling water 
and stir the contents till they thicken ; remove from the fire and 
when cold add H cup sugar; lay one layer of cake, bottom side up, 
on a jelly cake dish and spread over it the orange mixture ; lay 
over the remaining layer, right side up, and dust with powdered 
sugar ; or ice the cake with clear icing ; or cover the top of cake 
with an orange glaze. 



CAKES. 235 

806. Lemon Layer Cake. — 1 cup butter, 1 cup milk, 3 
cups sugar, 3 cups prepared flour and the wl^tes of 6 eggs ; stir 
butter and sugar with the right hand to a light white cream, then 
stir it with a spoon ; beat the whites to a stiff froth ; add by degrees 
the sifted flour, the beaten whites and milk alternately to the above 
mixture ; butter 4 good sized jelly tins and line them with buttered 
paper ; then fill in a thin layer of the cake mixtur^ spread it smooth 
with a knife and bake in a medium hot oven to a light brown and 
well done ; in the meantime prepare a filling as follows ; — Put in a 
small saucepan the grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, the yolks of 6 
eggs, 1 tablespoonful butter and 2 tablespoonfuls water ;«set the 
saucepan in a vessel of boiling water and stir till contents thicken ; 
remove from fire when cold, add 1 cup sugar; when cake is done 
remove it from oven, lay a clean cloth on a table, dust over 
some powdered sugar and turn the cake out of pan onto the cloth ; 
when cold put 1 layer on a jelly cake dish, bottom side up, and 
spread over J of the lemon mixture ; put on another layer, upside 
down, and spread it with the mixture ; then treat the third layer the 
same way ; then put on the last layer, right side up, and cover the 
top with a lemon glaze or dust it with powdered sugar. Note. — 
If this cake is not wanted so large it may be divided into 2 cakes, 
taking 2 layers for each cake ; or use half the quantities. Cream or 
jelly may be used instead of lemon tilling. 

807. Chocolate Layer Cake. — 4 eggs, i cup butter, 2 

cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 3 cups prepared flour and 1 tea- 
spoonful vanilla; stir butter and sugar to a light white cream 
and add the eggs, 1 at a time, stirring a few minutes between 
each addition ; next add vanilla, the sifted flour and milk 
alternately; bake in paper lined jelly tins in a quick oven; 
make 4 layers; in the meantime prepare the following filling: — 
Beat the whites of 3 eggs to a stiff froth and add 1 H cups pow- 
dered sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls Baker's grated chocolate and 1 tea- 
spoonful vanilla; mix all well together and put it between the 
layers and on top; or put boiled chocolate glaze between the 
layers and over the top (see Boiled Chocolate Glaze). The 



236 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

top of cake may be ornamented with blanched almonds laid 
in a circle around the top and some in the center. 

806. Chocolate Cream Cake. — 1 cup sugar, H cup milk, 1 }i 

cups prepared flour, 1 tablespoonful butter, 2 eggs and mix the 
same as in foregoing recipe ; bake in 2 layers in jelly tins ; 
for the cream : — Boil ^ cup milk and add H tablespoonful butter, 
2 tablespoonfuls grated chocolate, ^ cup sugar and 1 tablespoon- 
ful cornstarch wet with a little cold water; stir and boil for a few 
minutes ; remove from fire and mix with 1 beaten egg and H tea- 
spoonful vanilla extract ; when cold lay one of the cake layers on a 
flat dish and spread half the chocolate mixture over it ; put on the 
other layer, spread over the top the remaining chocolate cream and 
decorate the top with shelled walnuts. 

809. Cocoannt Layer Cake. — H cup sugar, H cup butter, 

1 K cups prepared flour, the grated rind and juice of H lemon, 
the whites of 3 eggs and H cup milk; stir butter and sugar 
to a light white cream ; beat the whites to a stiff froth and add 
them by degrees alternately with the sifted flour and milk to the 
creamed butter and sugar ; butter 2 good sized jelly cake tins and 
line them with buttered paper; put an equal portion in each tin, 
spread it evenly with a broad-bladed knife dipped in water and 
bake them in a medium hot oven to a delicate brown color; when 
done remove them from oven and let them stand for a few minutes ; 
then turn the cakes onto buttered paper to cool ; in the meantime 
grate 1 cocoanut and beat the white of 1 egg to a stiff froth ; add 
9i cup powdered sugar and the juice of H lemon ; lay one cake 
layer, bottom side up, on a jelly cake dish, spread over half the 
white icing and sprinkle over a thick layer of the freshly grated 
cocoanut; put on the remaining layer, right side up, spread over 
the Test of icing, cover with a thick layer of the cocoanut and sift 
over some powdered sugar. This cake may be served as a dessert 
with vanilla sauce. 

SIO, Lemon Cream Cake.— >tB cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 

the whites of 3 egg^y H cup milk, IK cups prepared flour 



CAKES. 237 

and the grated rind and juice of ^ lemon ; stir butter and sugar to 
a cream ; beat the whites to a stiff froth and add them alternately 
with the sifted flour and milk to the creamed butter and sugar ; add 
lastly the lemon ; butter 2 jelly tins and dust them with cracker 
dust ; put in the mixture, spread it evenly with a knife and bake 
a light brown ; when done put a napkin or clean cloth on the 
kitchen table and dust with powdered sugar; turn the cakes upside 
down onto the napkin and let them lay till cold ; cream for filling : — 
Boil ^ cup milk with 2 tablespoonfuls sugar; dissolve 1 table- 
spoonful cornstarch in }i cup cold milk, stir it into the boiling 
milk and boil a few minutes ; add 1 teaspoonf ul butter, a pinch of 
salt and remove it from fire ; beat up the yolks of 3 eggs with 1 
tablespoonful cold milk, stir them into the cornstarch and add 1 
teaspoonf ul essence of lemon; when cold put 1 layer of cake, up- 
side down, onto a plate and spread over the cream ; put the other 
layer over it, right side up, and dust the top with powdered sugar. 

811* Yanilla Cream Cake is made the same as Lemon Cream 
Cake, using vanilla flavoring instead of lemon. 

818, Jelly Cake^ No. 1. — 3 eggs, 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 
cup sifted flour mixed with 1 teaspoonful baking powder, 2 table- 
spoonfuls water and the grated rind of H lemon ; stir sugar and 
eggs to a cream and add alternately the sifted flour, water and 
lemon ; butter 3 medium sized jelly tins and dust them with finely 
sifted bread crumbs ; put an equal portion of the cake mixture into 
each tin, spread it evenly and bake in a medium hot oven to a deli- 
cate brown ; when done remove the cakes from oven. 

813*. Jelly Cake^ No, 2. — X cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup 
milk, 3 cups flour, 1 }4 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 4 eggs and 1 
teaspoonful essence of lemon ; stir butter and sugar with the right 
hand to a light white cream ; then stir with a spoon and add the eggs, 
1 at a time, stirring a few minutes between each addition ; next add 
the lemon and then alternately the milk and flour ; bake in 3 jelly cake 
tins in a medium hot oven to a delicate brown color; the tins should 
be lined witb buttered paper ; when cold lay the layers over one 



238 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

another with jelly oetween and dast the top with powdered sugar 
or ice it with fruit icing. 

814. Jelly Cake^ No. 3.— Stir H pound butter with H 
pound powdered sugar to a light cream and add alternately 1% 
cups prepared flour (sifted), the whites of 4 eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth and 10 drops extract of bitter almonds ; butter 2 good 
sized jelly cake tins and line them with buttered paper ; put an 
equal portion of the cake mixture into each one, spread it evenly 
with a knife dipped in water and bake to a delicate brown color; 
when cold arrange in layers with jelly between and sift fine sugar 
over the top. 



815. Wine Glazed Cake* — 4 eggs, 1 cup flour, H cup sugar, 

1 teaspoonful baking powder and the grated rind and juice of }i 
lemon ; stir eggs and sugar to a cream ; sift the flour and baking 
powder together and add them with the lemon to the above mixt- 
ure ; butter a round cake pan and dust it with fine bread crumbs ; 
pour in the mixture and bake about 14 hour in a moderate oven ; 
for glazing dissolve H cup sugar in % cup cold water and put it 
over the fire to boil until the sugar forms a thread between 2 fin- 
gers ; then add 1 tablespoonful sherry wine, remove it from the fire 
and stir until a skin forms on top ; then slowly pour it over the 
cake. 

816. Wine Glazed Cream Cake. — Stir 4 eggs with Jtf cup 

granulated sugar to a cream and add % cup sifted flour in which 1 
teaspoonful baking powder has been mixed ; bake in a round pan; 
when done pour over a wine glaze the same as in foregoing recipe and 
decorate the top with blanched almonds, hazel or walnuts ; when 
cold cut the cake in half with a sharp knife; spread the un- 
der half thickly with whipped cream, put the other layer over it 
and cover the top with whipped cream. Note. — This mixture may 
be baked in a long, shallow pan and before putting it into the 
oven sprinkle 2 tablespoonfuls granulated sugar over the top. 
When done cut into squares ; or omit the sugar and when done glaze 
with boiled sugar glaze and cut into squares. 



CAKES. 239 

817. Pineapple Cake* — H pound butter, l pound powdered 
sugar, }i pound flour, 1 heaping teaspoonful baking powder, H 
pint pineapple syrup, 2 whole eggs, the yolks of 4 and 1 teaspoon- 
ful essence of vanilla ; wash the butter several times in cold water 
and dry it in a napkin ; put butter and sugar in a mixing bowl and 
stir with the right hand to a light white cream ; then stir with a 
spoon and add the 2 whole eggs, 1 at a time, stirring a few minutes 
between each addition ; next add the yolks, 1 at a time ; sift flour 
and baking powder together ; add the flour and pineapple syrup al- 
ternately to the above mixture ; butter 3 large, deep jelly cake tins 
and dust them with flour ; put an equal portion of the cake batter 
into each pan, spread it evenly with a broad-bladed knife dipped in 
water and bake the cakes in a medium hot oven to a delicate 
brown ; when done remove the cakes from the oven ; lay a napkin 
on a pastry board and dust over some powdered sugar ; turn the 
cake out, upside down, onto the napkin ; when cold put one cake, bot- 
tom side up, on a cake dish and spread over a layer of pineapple 
marmalade ; put on the last layer, right side up, and cover the top 
with pineapple glaze made as follows : — Stir H pound powdered 
sugar with 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls pineapple syrup arid a few drops 
of prepared saffron to a stiff sauce ; set it for a few minutes over 
the Are, stirring constantly until lukewarm ; then pour it by spoon- 
fuls over the cake and lay some preserved pineapple slices in a cir- 
cle around the cake ; or use candied pineapple. 

818» Wild Rose Cake. — 1 pound powdered sugar, H pound 
flour, a pound butter, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, the whites of 
8 eggs and 1 cup white brandy ; sift flour and baking powder to- 
gether; wash the butter in cold water, to remove the salt, and dry 
it in a napkin ; put butter and sugar in a mixing bowl and stir it 
with the right hand to a light white cream ; beat the whites to a 
stiff froth and stir them with a spoon in small portions alternately 
with the flour and brandy into the creamed butter; divide the 
mixture into 4 equal parts ; add to one part a little prepared coch- 
ineal, to color it a delicate pink, and flavor with 2 teaspoonfuls 
rose water; stir into the second part 2 tablespoonfuls cocoa and 1 



240 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

teaapoonf ul vanilla Bugar ; add to the third part the yolks of 2 eggfl 
and H tcaspoonf ul esHence of bitter almonds ; leave the fourth 
part white and flavor it with 1 teaspoonful essence of lemon ; take 
some large, deep jelly cake tins, rub them well inside with batter 
and dust with flour ; put each part of cake mixture into a separate 
pan and spread the batter smooth with a broad-bladed knife ; then 
bake in a medium hot oven to a delicate brown and well done ; lay 
some clean brown paper or a napkin on a table and dust over some 
powdered sugar; as soon as one cake is done remove from the 
oven and let it stand 3 minutes ; then turn the pan upside down 
onto the pa}>er ; treat the remaining cakes the same way ; as soon 
as the cakes are cooled off prepare a meringue as follows : — ^Beat the 
whites of 5 eggs to a stiff froth and mix them with H pound pow- 
dered sugar; have ready K pound blanched almonds, H pound 
blanched walnuts and H pound blanched Brazil nuts; chop the 
nuts fine ; w^hen all is prepared put the cakes together and put the 
white layer upside down on a jelly dish ; spread over the layer i the 
meringue and sprinkle over ^ the chopped nuts ; then put on the 
dark layer; spread again with meringue and sprinkle with nuts; 
next put on the yellow layer; spread over the remaining meringue 
and sprinkle over the nuts ; lay the pink layer on top, with the right 
side up, and cover with the following glaze: — ^Mix H pound pow- 
dered sugar with a few spoonfuls red fruit juice or fruit 'yrup, such 
as red clierry, raspberry or strawberry syrup ; stir the sugar to a 
thick sauce, set it over the fire and stir constantly until the sugar is 
lukewarm ; then pour it by spoonfuls over the cake ; lay blanched 
almonds and blanched walnuts in a circle around the edge of 
cake and a few in the center. 

819. Blscnlt an benrre. — H pound powdered sugar, H 

pound sifted flour, H pound cornstarch, H pound melted butter, 
7 eggs and the grated rind of 1 lemon ; beat the 7 whites to a stiff 
froth and add by degrees the yolks and sugar ; set this on a hot 
stove and beat till it is warm ; then remove it and continue the beat- 
ing until nearly cold ; strain the melted butter into a cup and con- 
tinue the beating with the right hand ; hold the cup with the melted 



CAKES. 241 

butter in the left hand ; pour butter into the mixture gradually; 
next stir in the sifted flour and cornstarch ; butter a round cake pan 
and line it with buttered tissue or waxed paper; pour in the mixture ; 
cover the bottom of a pie plate with salt, set the pan with cake on- 
to this and bake X hour in an oven not too hot ; if it browns too 
much put paper over it. 

820. Fine Sponge Cake. — l pound powdered sugar, 12 
eggs and not quite 1 pound (about 2 tablespoonfuls less) of flour; 
then add the grated rind and juice of 1 lemon ; put the flour 
into a tin pan and set it in front of oven to get warm ; {lut the 
eggs, sugar and lemon into a deep stone mixing bowl ; set the l)Owl 
into a large dishpan of hot water in such a way that the bowl is 
half covered with water; beat the contents of bowl with an egg 
beater for M hour; then slowly add the flour, continue the beat- 
ing for a few minutes longer and pour the mixture into a large 
round pan or 2 medium sized ones ; the pan should be previously 
well buttered and lined with fine brown buttered or waxed paper ; 
bake 1 hour in a slow oven. Sponge cake made according to this 
recipe is elegant, but care must be taken to follow the instruc- 
tions exactly. Half these quantities will make a good sized cake. 

' If the oven should be rather hot at the bottom put in a large pie 
plate with salt, set the pan with cake onto it and bake. 

821. Delicate Sponge Cake.— 9 eggs, l^ small cups granu- 
lated sugar, 1 K small cups flour (sifted 3 times) and the grated 
rind and juice of 1 lemon ; put the 9 yolks in a bowl and the whites 
into a deep dish ; add to the yolks H the sugar and stir them to a 
cream ; beat the whites to a stiff froth and add the remaining sugar, 
beating constantly ; then add slowly, in small portions, the creamed 
yolks ; next the lemon ; continue the beating with an egg beater 
until all is well mixed ; then stir in lightly the sifted flour ; butter 
a long, shallow pan and line it with buttered paper ; pour in the 
mixture and bake in a slow oven ^ hour to a delicate brown ; when 
done carefully remove the cake from oven and let it stand for a 
few minutes before taking out of the pan. This cake may be 
iced either with clear icing or wine or fruit glaze. 

10 



242 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

822. Marguerites. — yi pound flour, H teaspoonful salt, H 
pound sugar, 1 whole egg, the yolk of 1 egg, 1 heaping teaspoon- 
ful anise seed, the grated rind of % lemon, % cup lukewarm water 
and 2 tablespoonf uls melted butter; measure after the butter is 
melted ; sift the flour in a bowl, add salt, suger, grated lemon 
peel, the eggs and mix the whole with the water into a batter; 
lastly add the butter and anise seed ; put a wafer iron over the fire; 
when hot brush it over with melted lard ; put 1 teaspoonful of the 
batter in the center of wafer iron, close it and bake the cake a light 
brown on both sides; as soon as one is done take it from the iron 
and roll up like a tube ; continue to bake the remaining batter the 
same way; these quantities will make 50 cakes. 2 teaspoonfuls of 
vanilla sugar may be used instead of anise seed. These cakes may 
be served either with ice cream, wine or coffee. 

82S. Macaroons* — Scald % pound sweet almonds with a few 
bitter ones, remove the brown skins and spread the nuts out on 
paper to dry ; then pound them in a wedgewood mortar to a paste 
with the whites of 2 eggs and add 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla sugar or 
the grated rind of 1 lemon ; mix it with H pound powdered sugar 
and 2 tablespoonf uls clear icing made as follows : — ^Take }i the 
white of 1 egg, mix it with 2 tablespoonfuls sifted powdered sugar 
and stir for a few minutes ; then add it to the almonds ; mix the 
whole into a firm paste and form with the hands into small round 
balls the size of a hickory nut ; line some shallow tin pans with 
brown paper (such as is used for wrapping paper), but do not but- 
ter it; set the balls in even rows, one inch apart, on the paper, flat% 
ten each one a little with a wet finger and bake them in a medium 
hot oven to a golden color ; when done wet a pastry board with 
cold water and lay the macaroons on the wet board with the paper 
side towards the board ; after 5 minutes the macaroons may be 
lifted from the paper, as the dampness loosens them ; the above 
quantities will make 50 macaroons. Great care should be taken 
to use the exact amount of ingredients here stated. 

824. Cookies* — 1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 2 eggs, the grated 
rind of 1 lemon and 1 teaspoonful baking powder; stir the butter 



CAKES. 243 

and sugar to a light white cream and add the eggs 1 at a time ; sift 
the powder with 2 cups flour, add it to the mixture and work 
the whole with sufficient flour into a stiff dough ; roll it out i inch in 
thickness, cut with a cake cutter into rounds and bake them a 
light brown in well buttered shallow tin pans. 

825. Butter Cakes. — 1 yeast cake, 1 quart sifted flour, 1 H 
pints warm milk or water and 1 teaspoonful salt; dissolve the 
yeast in a little warm water ; sift the flour and salt into a mixing 
bowl, make a hollow in center, pour in the yeast and water, mix 
into a batter and let it stand over night (this is called setting a sponge) ; 
next morning stir 1 cup sugar with H cup lard and H cup butter 
to a cream and add 2 eggs, 1 at a time, stirring a few minutes be- 
tween each addition ; then add the grated rind of 1 lemon and a 
very little powdered cardamon ; mix this thoroughly with the sponge, 
add sufficient sifted flour to make a soft dough, cover it with a 
clean cloth and set in a warm place to rise to double its height; 
then butter 4 long, shallow tin pans (12 inches long, 8 inches wide 
and 1 inch deep) and dust each one with flour ; when the dough has 
attained the desired lightness divide it into 4 equal parts ; roll each 
pait out on the pastry board, put it into the pan, press evenly 
all over and again set it to rise to top of pan ; when ready to bake 
brush each cake over with melted butter, sprinkle over 2 table- 
spoonfuls granulated sugar mixed with a little cinnamon and bake 
in a quick oven to a light brown ; as soon as done remove the cakes 
from the pans and lay them on a long platter, one over the other, 
with the sugared sides together; when cold serve with coffee. 

826. Butter Cakes (with Baking Powder).— 2 cups sift- 
ed flour, 2 eggs, iH teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 tablespoon- 
f ul melted butter, 1 cup milk, H teaspoonful salt, the grated rind of 
1 lemon and ii cup well washed currants ; sift flour, salt and baking 
powder into a mixing bowl, make a hollow in center, put in the- 2 
whites and 1 yolk of eggs well beaten, add the lemon, the melted 
butter and mix it with the milk into a thick batter; lastly stir in 
the currants; spread the mixture into 2 well greased, shallow tin 
pans; first brush them over with the remaining yolk, then with 3 



244 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

tablespoonfuls melted batter; mix 3 tablespoonfuls granulated 
sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls finely cut citron, K cup finely chopped al- 
monds together, sprinkle this over the 2 cakes and bake imme- 
diately in a quick oven till done and a light brown. Prepared flour 
may be substituted for baking powder. 

827. Apple Cake. — ^Prepare a dough the same as for But- 
ter Cakes and divide it into 6 parts, as the dough for Apple 
Cake has to be thinner than for Butter Cakes; line 6 shallow 
tin pans with the dough and set it to rise to double its height ; in 
the meantime pare, core and cut into eighths some large, tart apples 
and lay them together closely in long rows over the cake ; drop 1 
tablespoonful melted butter over each cake, sprinkle over some 
granulated sugar and bake in a hot oven ; when done dust with 
powdered sugar. 

828. Cheese Cake. — Dissolve % yeast cake in % pint warm 
milk and add 1 pound sifted flour, 2 eggs, % teaspoonf ul salt, 2 
tablespoonfuls butter and % tablespoonful sugar ; work this into a 
soft dough and set it in a warm place to rise to double its height ; 
then roll it out ^ of an inch in thickness ; butter 2 large cheese or 
pie plates, cover them with the dough, ornament the edge and let 
it rise again until light ; mix 1 pound fresh pot cheese with 1 H 
cups thick sweet or sour cream, }i cup sugar (or sweeten to taste), 
3 eggs and }i cup currants ; when this is well mixed together 
brush the dough over with melted butter and fill the plate with the 
cheese mixture ; bake in a medium hot oven. 

829. Chrysanthemnm Cake. — M pint butter, 1 pint 

sugar, 1% pints flour sifted with 1% teaspoonf nls baking 
powder, the grated rind of 1 orange, H pint milk and the whites 
of 8 eggs ; stir butter and sugar with your right hand to a light 
white cream; beat the whites to a stiff froth, add them to the 
creamed butter and mix well together with a spoon ; add alternately 
the flour and milk ; then add the grated orange peel and a few 
drops of cochineal, to color the mixture a delicate pink ; butter 3 
large jelly tins, dust them with fine bread crumbs, fill in the 



BOLLS AND BBEAD. 



245 



miztnre in equal parts and bake in a medium hot oven ; when done 
remove the cakes from the pans and lay them aside to cool ; mix 
H cup powdered sugar with the beaten whites of 2 eggs ; spread 
this icing over the layers and sprinkle them thickly with freshly 
grated cocoanut; lay the layers over one another, cover the top 
with pink icing and sprinkle over some cocoanut. 

830. Snowflake Cake. — 2 cups sugar, l cup butter^ 1 cup 
milk, 3 cups prepared flour, the grated rind of 1 lemon and the 
whites of 6 eggs ; stir the butter and sugar to a light white 
cream ; beat the whites to a stiff froth, add them to the creamed 
butter and add the lemon ; theji add alternately the milk and sifted 
flour; bake in 3 layers in large jelly tins; when done remove the 
cakes from the tins and set aside to cool ; beat the whites of 2 eggs 
to a froth and add H cup powdered sugar; spread this over each 
layer and sprinkle them thickly with freshly grated cocoanut ; lay 
the layers over one another, spread the top layer with the icing, 
cover it thickly with cocoanut and dust over some powdered 
sugar. 

BOLLS AND BREAD. 

831. Parkerhouse Bolls. — 2 cups warm milk, l yeast cake, 
2 cups sifted flour, 1 teaspoonf ul salt, 2 teaspoonfuls sugar, 2 table- 
spoonfuls melted butter and 1 ogg; dissolve the yeast in a little 
warm milk ; sift the flour into a bowl, add sugar and salt, make a 
hollow in center and put in the yeast and some of the milk ; com* 
mence mixing it with the right hand ; next add the Ggg^ butter and 
the remaining milk; set it in a warm place till very light ; then 
work with sufficient sifted flour into a soft dough and let it rise 
again till very light; then roll it out 1 inch in thickness and cut 
into rounds with a cake cutter; brush the rounds with melted 
butter, double them over and set in buttered pans 1 inch apart; 
let them rise to double their size and bake to a flne golden color; 
while hot brush them over with melted butter. 



246 DESSEBTS AND SALADa 

833. Bread. — 2 quarts floor, 1 teaspoonful salt, 9i teaspoon- 
fols sugar, small tablespoonf ul lard or butter, 1 }i pints lukewarm 
water, 1 of Fleischmann's yeast cakes. Break the yeast cake into 
a cup, add 1 teaspoonful sugar and sufficient lukewarm water to 
fill the cup, set it in a warm place till the yeast rises to the surface. 
Sift flour, sugar and salt into a bowl, add the lard or butter and 
rub it flne in the flour; then make a hollow in centre of flour, pour 
in the yeast and the remaining water, stir it with a spoon into a 
stiff dough, turn it on to a floured board and work it with the 
hands and some flour imtil it does not stick to the hands ; return 
the dough to the bowl, cover and let it stand in a warm place to 
rise. When the dough has risen to double its size, butter 2 brick- 
shaped pans or use the crusty bread pans, dust them with flour, 
divide the dough into 2 equal parts, mould them into loaves on the 
board, put them into the buttered pans, cover and let stand till the 
dough is to top of pan, place it in mediam hot oven and bake 1 
hour. If the bread is to be mixed at night take only H yeast 
oake, otherwise proceed the same as above. 



COFFEE. 

833. How to Hake Coiree.--Coffee should always be bought 
in the bean and ground when wanted. It should never be allowed to 
boil, as all the fine aroma is thereby lost. The finest, quickest 



FRUIT SALADS. 247 

and moBt economical way to make coffee is by making it in a bag 
made as follows : — ^Take a piece of coarse unbleached muslin, about 
I yard long and | yard wide, costing about 5 cents per yard ; fold 
on the bias to a point, sew it together in such a way that the bag 
has the shape of a funnel and hem it on the top ; then place the 
bag in the coffee pot; let the point hang so that it does not quite 
reach the bottom ; let the top of bag lay over the outside of the 
coffee pot ; then put in 1 cup freshly ground coffee, pour over H 
pint boiling water and let it stand 1 minute ; then add 1 quart boil- 
ing water and let it stand about 3 minutes on side of stove; 
have ready the urn in which the coffee is to be served, which should 
be well rinsed with boiling water, pour in the coffee and serve at 
once ; pour more boiling water over the coffee grounds and let it 
stand on side of stove for a short while ; then serve the same way ; 
the second coffee will be found nearly as good as the first. If the 
coffee is too strong add more water ; if not strong enough add less 
water, as some like it strong and others do not. Another way is to 
take 3 heaping tablespoonfuls freshly ground coffee and 6 cups 
boiling water ; grind the coffee as fine as possible ; rinse out the 
coffee pot with boiling water, put in the coffee and pour on enough 
boiling water to cover it well ; let it stand in a warm place for 5 
minutes, but do not allow it to boil; then add the remaining 
boiling water, let it stand for a few minutes and either serve in 
the same coffee pot in which it was made or strain through a 
fine sieve into a hot silver or china coffee urn and serve at once. 
This is also an easy and economical way of making good coffee, but 
the first-named method is the best. 



FRUIT SALADS. 

834. Watermelon Salad. — Cut a watermelon in two, re- 
move the seeds and break the red part into pieces with a silver 
fork ; put it in layers in a glass dish, sprinkle each layer with sugar 
and place the dish on ice for 2 hours ; when ready to serve pour 
over H pint claret. If objected to the wine may be omitted. 



.248 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

835. How to Serye Watermelon. — Cut a watermelon 

in half lengthwise; then cut each half first in two and then 
into long pieces about 2 inches in thickness ; arrange the pieces 
nicely on an oblong plate and serve. The melon should lay for 
several hours on ice before being cut, as it is not nice unless cold. * 

836. Plum and Peach Salad. — Choose 1 dozen large egg 
plums, cut them in two and remove the pits ; pare and quarter H 
dozen large, ripe peaches and put them in layers alternately with 
the plums in a glass dish with 1 cup sugar sprinkled between ; place 
the dish on ice for H hour before serving. 

837. Orange and Gocoannt Salad. — Pare and cut some nice 

oranges into pieces and remove the seeds; put a layer of the 
oranges sprinkled with sugar into a glass dish, then a layer of fresh- 
ly grated cocoanut and next a layer of apple or currant jelly ; then * 
oranges again ; continue in this way until the dish is filled ; place the 
dish on ice for 1 or 2 hours and serve. If not handy the jelly may 
be omitted. 

838. Peach and Pear Salad. — Pare and cut into fine 
slices 4 large, ripe Bartlett pears ; pare and cut into quarters H doz- 
en large, ripe peaches ; put them with the pears into a glass dish 
with a layer of whipped cream and sugar between and serve at 
once. 

839. Peach Salad. — Pare and cut 1 dozen peaches into qnar- < 
ters, put them into a glass dish, sprinkle sugar between and over 

them and place the dish on ice for H hour before serving. 

840. Banana Salad. — Cut the fruit into slices, put it into a 
glass dish with sugar sprinkled between, squeeze over some lemon 
juice and pour over 1 glass claret ; place the dish on ice for 1 or 2 
hours before serving. 

841. Raspberry and Gnrrant Salad.— Remove the stems 

from 1 pound currants and wash and drain them ; also wash and 

drain 1 quart raspberries and put them into a glass dish with IH j 

cups sugar ; cover and let them stand for 3 or 4 hours before serving. 



SALADS. 249 

842. How to Serye Blackberries. — ^Put blackberries into a 

colander, let cold water run over them and set colander for a few 
minutes into a dishpan to drain ; put the berries into a glass dish 
with powdered sugar. Huckleberries are prepared the same way. 

843. Banana and Orange Salad. — Remove the skins from 4 

bananas and cut the fruit into slices ; pare and cut ^ dozen oranges 
into small pieces and remove the seeds ; put oranges and bananas 
alternately into a glass dish with sugar sprinkled between, set 
them on ice for 1 hour and then serve. 

844. Pineapple Salad. — Pare and quarter 1 ripe pineapple, 

remove the hard part in center and cut each quarter into fine slices 
or dice ; pare and cut % dozen oranges into small slices and remove 
the pits ; put oranges into a glass dish in alternate layers with pire- 
apple with plenty of sugar sprinkled between and place them on 
ice for 1 or 2 hours before serving. Strawberries with pineapple 
are prepared the same way. 

845. Cherry Salad. — ^Remove the pits from 1 pound cherries, 

sprinkle with sugar and let them stand for 1 hour ; then put them 
with 1 pint ripe strawberries and a little more sugar into a glass 
dish, set them on ice for 10 minutes and serve. 



SALADS. 
846. Fine Mayonaise^ No. 1.— The yolks of 4 eggs, 

8 tablespoonfuls salad oil, 4 tablespoonfuls white vinegar, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 2 teaspoonfuls sugar, from 1 to 2 table- 
spoonfuls French mustard and % pint whipped cream or 3 
tablespoonfuls condensed milk which is not sweet; put the yolks 
in a small saucepan and stir them to a cream ; then slowly 
add, stirring constantly, 4 tablespoonfuls oil; when this is well 
^xed add the 4 spoonfuls vinegar, set the saucepan in a vessel of 
boiling water and stir over the fire till contents of saucepan begin 
to thicken ; then instantly remove and continue the stirring until 



250 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

cold; then slowly add the remaining 4 spoonfuls oil, stirring con- 
stantly; next add the salt and sugar; then the mustard and lastly 
the cream or condensed milk. This mayonaise is excellent if made 
exactly according to recipe. These quantities will make a mayon- 
aise sufficient for 10 persons. If the mayonaise is not all wanted at 
one time fill it into jelly glasses without the cream. It will then 
keep for some time. The cream can be added when wanted for 
use. 

847. Mayonaise^ No* 2. — 2 eggs, 4 tablespoonf uls oil, 2 table- 
spoonfuls vinegar, 1 teaspoonf ul sugar, % teaspoonful salt, 2 table- 
spoonfuls French mustard and 4 tablespoonfuls whipped cream or 
1 tablespoonf ul condensed milk which is not sweet; put the yolks 
into a small vessel and stir them to a cream ; add by degrees the 
oil, stirring constantly ; then slowly add the vinegar, set the vessel 
in a saucepan of boiling water and stir and boil till the contents 
of saucepan begin to thicken ; then remove from fire and stir un- 
til cold ; add the salt, mustard, sugar and vinegar ; beat the whites 
to a stiff froth and slowly add them to the above mixture ; stir in 
the cream or condensed milk just before the salad is to be dressed. 
These quantities will make a salad sufficient for 8 persons. If it 
is not to be all used at one time put it into a small glass or stone 
jar (without the cream or milk) and cover tightly to exclude the 
air. If kept in a cool place it will keep for some time. When 
wanted for use add the cream. This mayonaise is both cheap and 
excellent. 

848. Plain Mayonaise. — Put some cracked ice into a dish- 
pan and place a bowl in the center of the ice ; put the yolks of 4 
eggs into a bowl and stir them well with a wooden spoon for 5 
minutes ; then slowly add % bottle best olive oil ; add only a few 
drops at a time and stir constantly ; if too much oil is added at one 
time it will not mix together ; if the sauce gets too thick add a 
little vinegar and lastly a few tablespoonfuls whipped cream, salt 
and vinegar to taste. Another way is to rub the yolks of 2 hard 
boiled eggs fine and mix them with 2 raw yolks ; otherwise finish 
the same as foregoing recipe. 



SALADS. 261 

849. Sauce TartarO* — ^Miz l pint mayonaise made as in pre- 
ceding recipe with 1 tablespoonfol French mustard and 1 teaspoon fill 
English mustard mixed, 3 anchovies freed from skins and bones and 
pressed through a sieve, some finely chopped parsley, small, chopped 
onion, 4 tablespoonfuls chopped capers, some vinegar and pepper; 
this sauce is mostly served with cold meat. 

850. Mayonaise without Eggs (economical). — 1 teaspoon- 

ful cornstarch, H cup boiling water, 6 tablespoonfuls oil, 3 table- 
spoonfuls French mustard, 1 teaspoonf ul salt, 2 teaspoonf uls sugar, 
4 tablespoonfuls vinegar and 1 tablespoonf ul condensed milk which 
is not sweet ; mix the cornstarch with a little cold water, add the 
a cup boiling water and stir and boil for a few minutes ; then set 
aside to cool ; put the mustard into a bowl and gradually add the 
oil, stirring constantly; next add the sugar, salt and vinegar; then 
the cornstarch and lastly the milk. 

851. Salad Dressing without Oil^ No. 1.— 2 ounces butter, 

2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar, 1 teaspoonf ul sugar, H teaspoon- 
f ul salt and' 2 tablespoonfuls French mustard ; melt the butter in a 
cup by setting it into hot water for a few minutes and then set it 
aside to cool ; stir the yolks in a small vessel with salt and sugar to 
a cream and add the melted butter, a little at a time, stirring con- 
stantly; next slowly add the vinegar, set the vessel in a saucepan 
of hot water and stir until the contents begin to thicken ; then re- 
move, stir until cold and slowly add the other ingredients ; beat the 
whites to a stiff froth and mix them with the sauce ; if handy add 
a few tablespoonfuls cream ; if English mustard is used take 1 tea- 
spoonful mixed with cold water. 

852. Salad Dressing without Oil^ No. 2.— 1 teaspoonful 

flour, a cup boiling water, 1 tablespoonful butter, 2 tablespoonfuls 
vinegar, 1 teaspoonful sugar, H teaspoonful salt and 2 tablespoon- 
fuls French mustard ; mix the flour with a little cold water, add the 
boiling water, ooil 2 minutes and add the butter in small pieces ; re- 
move from fire and mix by degrees with the vinegar, then the mustard 
and the other ingredients ; to this sauce the yolks of 2 eggs may be 



252 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

added and also the 2 whites beaten to a stiff froth ; or the yolks of 

2 hard boiled eggs nibbed through a sieve and the whites chopped 
fine and sprinkled over the salad. 

853. How to Prepare Lettnce for Salad and for Gar- 
nishing. — Cut off the stalks from 3 or 4 heads of lettuce, pick off 
all the decayed and withered leaves, break the tender green leaves 
apart one by one and remove the thick veins ; put the lettuce into 
cold water, rinse well and let it lay in ice water for hi hour or lon- 
ger; shortly before serving drain the lettuce in a colander; then put 
it in a napkin, shake out well and use as directed. 

854. Lettuce Salad (plain). — Prepare the lettuce as in fore- 
going recipe, lay it into a salad dish and pour over 2 or 3 table- 
spoonfuls salad oil and a little pepper and salt ; add to H cup white 
vinegar 4 tablespoonf uls water and pour it over the salad ; mix it up 
well with 2 salad forks, sprinkle over a little cracked ice and serve 
at once. If ice is not handy the salad will have to be prepared with- 
out it, but it adds greatly to the crispness of the lettuce. If you 
rub a piece of garlic over the salad dish just before putting in the 
lettuce it will give the salad a fine flavor without really tasting of 
garlic. A small spoonful of sugar may be sprinkled over the let- 
tuce if liked. Finely shaved onions may also be added. 

855. Lettuce Salad with Hayonaise.— Prepare the salad as 

directed, put it into a salad dish and pour over a mayonaise dress- 
ing. Finely shaved onions may be added if liked. 

856. Lettuce Salad with Sweet Egg Sauce.— Cut 2 ounces 

fat pork into very small dice and fry them a light brown ; beat 2 or 

3 eggs until very light and slowly add the pork, 3 or 4 tablespoon- 
f uls vinegar and 2 tablespoonf uls sugar ; mix this well together and 
pour it over the salad. This recipe will make a sufficient quantity 
to dress 3 heads of lettuce. More vinegar diluted with a little 
water may be added ; also more or less sugar. 

857. Lettuce Salad with Syrup Sauce (North German 

art). — Mix 1 tablespoonf ul flour in a small saucepan with a little 
cold water until all lumps are dissolved, add 1 cup boiling water and 



SALADS. 255 

stir and boil for a few minutes ; add 1 tablespoonf al batter and con- 
tinue boiling for a few minutes longer; then transfer it to a bowl 
and set aside ; when nearly cold add H cup syrup, a pinch of salt, 
2 tablespoonf uls vinegar and 1 tablespoonf ul sugar ; set this sauce 
on ice or in a cool place for 5 minutes before serving ; put the pre- 
pared lettuce in a dish and pour the sauce over it ; sufficient for 4 
large heads of lettuce. Salad prepared in this way is served in 
North Germany with Oerman pancakes instead of butter. Fat pork 
cut fine and fried to a crisp may be used. 

858. Lettuce Salad with Cream Sauce (North Oerman 

art). — ^Prepare the lettuce as directed for 3 or 4 large heads of 
salad ; take 1 pint thick, sour cream and add 3 or 4 tablespoonf uls 
sugar, a pinch of salt and 1 or 2 tablespoonf uls vinegar; mix this 
together and pour over the salad ; then serve at once. 

859. Lettuce *Salad with Cream.— Put the prepared let- 
tuce in a dish and pour over some sweet cream to which a little 

sugar has been added. Some people add a little vinegar and a 
pinch of salt. Salad prepared with this sauce is often served with 
large Oerman pancakes. 

860. Beet Salad. — Wash and put yi dozen beets in a sauce- 
pan with boiling water and cover and boil them till tender \ when 

done put the beets into cold water, remove the skins and cut them 
while still warm into thin slices ; also cut 1 medium sized onion into 
thin slices ; put the beets and onion in alternate layers into a dish 
and sprinkle between 1 teaspoonful salt, H teaspoonful pepper and 
2 teaspoonf uls sugar ; pour over an equal quantity of vinegar and 
water (enough to nearly cover the beets) and let them stand 1 hour 
before serving. Omit the onion if its flavor is not liked. 

861. Salad MacMoine. — Take equal quantities of boiled 

white beans, boiled potatoes, celery roots, beets and string beans 
(the last 4 boiled in salt water) and cut into fine slices ; put into a 
bowl 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls oil, vinegar and salt, pepper and some 
sugar; put in all the ingredients, add some finely chopped parsley 
and chervil and mix the whole together thoroughly; put the salad 



254 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

into a dish and garnish with lettace leaves. If the 'vinegar is too 
sharp dilate it with water. 

862. Salad & la russe. — Boil 6 medium sized potatoes with 
the skins on, 2 beets and 3 celery roots ; when cold remove the 
skins and cat them into small dice ; also cat into dice 2 pickles and 
1 dozen anchovies or 3 herrings previously soaked in water, freed 
from skins and bones and cut fine ; add to this 2 tablespoonf uls 
capers, H cup grated horseradish and mix the whole with a fine 
mayonaise ; put the salad on ice for 1 hour before serving ; when 
ready to serve put the salad onto a round dish, pile up high in 
center and garnish with hard boiled eggs; chop fine the yolks 
and whites separate ; also chop beets and green pickles fine, lay 
them in small clusters all over the salad and garnish the edge with 
green lettuce leaves or shaved pink and white horseradish. Pink 
horseradish is made by pouring a little cochineal over it and mixing 
well. 

863. Cucumber Salad. — Select 3 medium sized cucumbers 
with small seeds, pare and cut a small piece from each end and lay 
the cucumbers in strongly salted ice water for 1 hour or longer; 
10 minutes before serving take them out of water, wipe dry and cut 
on a board with a sharp knife into fine slices ; put them into a salad 
dish, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, pour over 2 tablespoon- 
f uls salad oil and mix it with the cucumbers ; then pour over H 
cup white vinegar to which a little water and a pinch of sugar has 
been added ; if onions are liked cut a medium sized one into thin 
slices and put them between the cucumbers ; some finely chopped 
parsley may also be added if the flavor is liked. 

864. Salad de laitue romaine. — ^Take several heads of 
young, green lettuce ; do not wash them ; put them into a dish, 
add some coarsely cut chervil, tarragon and pimpernel and dress it 
either with salt, pepper, oil and vinegar or with mayonaise. 

866. Salad of Oyster Plant. — Scrape and wash 2 bunches 
ojrster plant and drop as you clean it into cold water to which 1 cup 
vinegar and 1 tablespoonf ul flour have been added; put a saucepan 



r 



SALADS. 255 

over the fire with boiling water, add H cup vinegar, H tablespoon- 
f ul flour wet with a little cold water, put in the oyster plant and 
boil till tender ; when done drain in a colander and when cold cut it 
into lengths 2 inches long ; arrange it nicely in a dish and pour a 
mayonaise over ; or dress the oyster plant with oil, vinegar, pepper 
and salt. 

866. A^para.gas Salad. — ^Pare and cut into 2 inch lengths 1 
bunch asparagus and boil it in salt water till tender; when done 
drain in a colander and when cold put the asparagus into a salad 
bowl; dress it either with mayonaise or pepper, salt, oil and 
vinegar. 

867. Carrot Salad. — Scrape and wash K dozen medium sized 
carrots, put them in a saucepan over the fire with boiling water, 
add 1 tablespoonf ul sugar and boil till tender ; when done take them 
out of water and set aside to cool ; shortly before serving cut the 
carrots into fine slices, put them into a salad dish and pour over a 
mayonaise dressing ; or dress the carrots with pepper, salt, oil and 
vinegar. If verv large carrots are used first cut them in quarters 
and then into slices or dice. 

868. Carrot Salad with Asparagus. — ^Prepare H dozen 
medium sized carrots the same as for Carrot Salad ; wh^ cold cut 
them into dice ; boil the heads of 1 bunch asparagus in salt water 
till done, but not too soft ; drain it in a colander and set with 
the carrots in the ice box for 1 hour ; shortly before serving put the 
carrots and asparagus heads, in alternate layers, into a salad dish, 
pour over a mayonaise and garnish the dish with hard boiled eggs 
cut into slices and young lettuce leaves; sprinkle a few capers over 
the top. 

869. Carrot Salad with Onions. — Prepare the carrots the 
same way as in foregoing recipe ; cut 3 or 4 medium sized onions 
on a board with a sharp knife into slices as thin as wafers, put 
them in alternate layers with the carrots into a dish and pour over a 
mayonaise dressing; or dress with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt; add 
to vinegar a little water and sugar. 



256 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

870. Carrot Salad with Peas. — Boil the carrots the same as 
for Carrot Salad and cut them into small dice ; put 1 pint fresh 
green peas in a saucepan, cover with boiling water and add 2 tea- 
spoonfuls sugar. 

871. Celery Boot Salad. — Boil H dozen celery roots; when 
done take them out of water and when cold pare and cut into 
quarters ; cut each quarter into thin slices, put them into a salad 
dish and season with salt and pepper; add 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls 
salad oil and H cup vinegar; mix this well together and pour over 
a cup boiling water; or dress the salad with mayonaise and gar- 
nish with green lettuce. 

872. White Celery Salad.— Take the white part of 1 or 2 

bunches of celery and lay it for 1 hour in ice water ; shortly before 
serving cut the celery into small pieces H inch in length, put it in 
a salad dish and pour over a mayonaise dressing; let it stand on ice 
for 15 minutes before serving. Some people use all of the celery 
except the leaves, but the salad is finer when made of the white 
part only. 

873. Cabbage Salad. — ^Remove the outer leaves from a firm 
head of cabbage, shave it as fine as possible and put in ice water for 
1 hour ; before serving drain the cabbage in a colander, put it in a 
salad dish and mix with mayonaise ; set it on ice until wanted ; or 
dress the cabbage with oil, pepper, salt and vinegar ; add to the lat- 
ter before pouring it over the cabbage 1 spoonful sugar. 

874. Salad of Bed Cabbage. — Cut the cabbage as fine as pos- 
sible, put it in a saucepan, pour over boiling water, cover and boil 
3 minutes ; drain in a colander and when cold dress it with oil, pep- 
per, salt, a small spoonful sugar and some vinegar; the latter should 
be diluted with water. 

875. Uot Slaw. — Cut a small, firm head of cabbage as fine as 
possible and put it in a large bowl ; place a saucepan with 1 cup 
vinegar, 1 tablespoonful butter and 1 teaspoonful sugar over the 
fire and let it come to a boil ; then pour it over the cabbage and 
season with pepper and salt; at the same time put 1 egg with 1 cup 



SALADS. 257 

milk into another saucepan; beat these 2 ingredients together 
thoroughly and stir them over the fire till just about to boil ; pour 
it over the cabbage and serve at once. Sweet cream may be used 
instead of milk. 

876. Radish Salad. — Select 3 or 4 bunches nice, sound rad- 
ishes, trim them neatly and lay for 1 hour in ice water ; 10 minutea 
before serving wipe the radishes dry and cut them into fine slices; 
also cut 2 medium sized onions into fine slices like wafers ; put a 
layer of radishes into a salad dish, sprinkle over a little salt and 
white pepper and put over a layer of onions, with very little salt 
and white peppev ; continue in this way in alternate layers until all 
is used ; then pour over the whole a mayonaise dressing and garnish 
with green parsley leaves. The onions may be omitted if their 
flavor is not liked, but the salad is much finer with them. Instead 
of mayonaise the salad may be dressed with oil, pepper, salt and 
vinegar ; the latter should be diluted with ^ water and a small spoon- 
ful sugar added to it before pouring over the salad. 

877. White Bean Salad. — Wash and» pick over 1 pint dry 
beans, put them over the fire in a saucepan, cover with cold water, 
add H teaspoonful carbonate of soda and boil 10 minutes; pour 
the beans into a colander and rinse with cold water ; return them 
to saucepan again, cover with cold water, put a small piece of salt 
pork into the beans and slowly boil till the beans are tender ; re- 
move them from the fire and drain in a colander ; when cold put 
them in a dish and season with pepper and a little salt ; add 2 table- 
spoonfuls oil and 1 cup vinegar mixed with }i cup water and a 
small spoonful sugar; shake all well together; add 2 tablespoonfuls 
finely chopped parsley and, if liked, a finely sliced onion ; or dress the 
beans with mayonaise. 

878. String Bean Salad.— Choose 1 quart young string beans, 
string and cut them into halves and boil in salted water until tender; 
when done drain them in a colander and when cold mix them with 
pepper, 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls oil, 1 cup vinegar mixed with a little 
sugar and H water and 1 finely cut onion ; set the salad on ice 1 

17 



258 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

honr before serving. Butter bean salad is made the same as String 
Bean Salad, or dress with mayonaise. 

879. Crab Salad. — ^Take 1 pint crab meat, sprinkle the joioe 
of 1 lemon and 2 tablespoonf uls oil over it, mix well and set aside ; 
shortly before serving pat the crab meat on a salad dish with hard 
boiled eggs cut into small pieces; have some lettuce laying in ice 
water, drain it in a colander, shake dry in a napkin, cut through 
with a knife once or twice, mix some with the crab meat and use 
some for garnishing the dish ; pour over the whole a mayonaise 
dressing the same as for Lobster Salad and serve. 

880. Pike Salad. — Take a large siz^d fish, clean, wash, dry 
and cut it into 4 pieces ; put it in salted boiling water and vinegar 
and add some onions and 1 bouquet; bring it to a boil quickly ; then 
set the kettle aside and let it simmer till the fish is done ; as soon 
as the fish is tender take it out and when cold remove skin and 
bones ; cut each piece into 9 small pieces, lay them in a dish and 
pour over some sweet salad oil, tarragon, vinegar and sprinkle over 
a little salt and peppevi; after the fish has laid 2 hours pour into a 
salad dish some mayonaise, lay in some fish pieces and pour over 
mayonaise ; lay in the rest of fish and pour over the remaining 
mayonaise ; garnish the dish with aspic or green lettuce and hard 
boiled eggs. 

881. Tomato and Potato Salad.— Boil 6 large potatoes 

with the skins on ; when cold pare oft the skins and cut the potatoes 
into quarters ; then cut each quarter into fine slices ; lay 4 large, ripe 
tomatoes for H hour on ice ; then cut them into small slices ; cut 
2 onions into fine slices, put them in alternate layers with the pota- 
toes and tomatoes into a salad dish and sprinkle over each layer 
some pepper, salt and H tablespoonf ul oil ; mix H cup vinegar with 
1 tablespoonful sugar and ^ cup cold water, pour it over the salad 
and let it stand 15 minutes; then serve. The onions may be omitted 
and green peppers used instead of them. 

882. Tomato Salad with Lettuce.— Lay 4 medium sized 

sound tomatoes for }i hour on ice or in ice water; also the leaves of 



SALADS. 259 

2 large heads of lettuce ; 10 minutes before serving wipe the toma- 
toes dry and cut them on a board with a very sharp knife into thin 
slices ; shake the salad in a napkin ; put into a salad dish first a layer 
of lettuce leaves and then a layer of tomatoes ; continue in this way 
in alternate layers until all is used ; pour over a mayonaise dressing 
. and serve. 2 hard boiled eggs chopped fine may be sprinkled over 
the top. 

883. Tomato Salad. — ^Lay H dozen sound, ripe tomatoes for 
1 a hours on ice or in ice water ; shortly before serving wipe the 
tomatoes dry and cut them on a board with a sharp knife into thin 
slices ; also cut 2 medium sized onions into fine slices ; put them in 
alternate layers with the tomatoes into a salad dish and sprinkle 
over each layer H tcaspoonf ul salt, H teaspoonf ul sugar and half 
that quantity of white pepper ; mix X cup vinegar with }i cup 
water, pour it over the whole and serve at once. 2 tablespoonfuls 
oil may be added to the salad if liked, but many people object to it 
on tomato salad. 

884 Tomato Salad with Mayonaise.— Lay 8 or 10 sound, 

ripe tomatoes for 1 H hours on top of ice ; shortly before serving 
wipe the tomatoes dry and cut them on a board with a sharp knife 
into fine slices ; put them into a salad dish, pour over a mayonaise 
dressing and sprinkle over the top 2 tablespoonfuls capers ; serve as 
soon as made. 

885. Tomato and Cncnmber Salad. — ^Prepare the cucum- 
bers the same as for Cucumber Salad, put them in alternate layers 
with the sliced tomatoes into a salad dish and dress with mayon- 
aise. 

886. Tomato Pepper Salad. — ^Lay 6 sound, ripe tomatoes 
for 1 hour on ice or in ice water; remove the seeds from 2 green 
peppers and throw the seeds away; lay the peppers for 1 hour in 
ice water; 15 minutes before serving wipe the tomatoes and 
peppers dry, cut the tomatoes into fine, slices and cut the pep- 
pers into small pieces ; put a layer of tomatoes in a salad dish and 
sprinkle over some of the finely cut peppers ; then tomatoes again ; 



260 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

continue in this way until all is used ; pour over a fine mayoniuse 
and serve at once. 

887. Tomato Farce (& la Hayonaise).— Prepare 2 heads of 

lettuce as directed and lay them in ice water; select 6 medium 
sized ripe tomatoes and lay them for 1 hour on ice ; shortly before 
serving cut a thin slice off the blossom side of the tomatoes, scoop 
out the insides, chop fine with some white celery and the whites of 
2 hard boiled eggs and mix with a few spoonfuls mayonaise; fill 
each tomato with this mixture; take small dessert plates and put 
1 tomato on each with 3 or 4 lettuce leaves around it; pour 1 
tablespoonful mayonaise over each one and serve 1 to each person. 

888. Potato Salad. — Wash and boil 12 medium sized potatoes 

with the skins on ; when done drain off the water and pare off tlie 
skins; put into a deep bowl 2 finely cut onions, H cup white 
vinegar, 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls salad oil, 1 teaspoonful salt and H 
teaspoonf ul pepper ; cut the potatoes while hot into fine slices and 
put them into the dish with the vinegar, oil and onions ; pour over 
a cup boiling water; shake up the salad well in the bowl (do not 
stir it) and pour it into a salad dish ; cover and let it stand for I 
hour ; when ready to serve garnish the dish with finely cut beets 
and lettuce leaves. 2 tablespoon fuls finely chopped parsley may be 
mixed with the salad. Potato salad dressed with mayonaise is very 
nice. 

889. Potato Salad (another way).— Wash and pare 12 

medium sized potatoes and boil them in salted water till done ; drain 
off the water and turn the potatoes into a dish ; when cold cut them 
into slices ; cut 2 good sized onions into fine slices as thin as a 
wafer; mix fi cup vinegar with >i cup water and 1 teaspoonful 
sugar ; put a layer of potatoes into a dish, then a layer of onions ; 
sprinkle over some pepper and pour over 1 tablespoonful oil ; put 
in another layer of potatoes and onions ; continue in this way in al- 
ternate layers until all is used ; pour the vinegar over the whole and 
cover and set in a cool place for 2 hours before serving. 



SALADS. 261 

890. Potato Salad without Oil.— Wash and boil the po- 
tatoeB ; when done drain off the water, pare off the skins and cut 
potatoes into slices ; take for a soupplatef ul of sliced potatoes 2 
Anely cut onions and H pound fat. salt pork cut into small dice 
and fried a light brown ; put potatoes, onions and pork into a deep 
bowl and season with pepper and salt ; mix H cup vinegar with H 
cup boiling water and pour it over the potatoes ; shake this well 
together and pour it into a salad dish ; let it stand 1 hour or more 
before serving. 

891. Potato Salad without Onions. — Wash the potatoes 

in several cold waters and boil them with the skins on ; when done 
remove the skins and cat potatoes into slices; season them with 
salt and pepper, pour over an equal quantity of boiling water and 
vinegar and let them stand till cold; then add some sweet oil; 
mix it well and serve. 

892. Fine Potato Salad. — Boil 10 medium sized potatoes 
with their skins on ; when done remove the skins and set the pota- 
toes aside to cool ; stir the yolks of 2 eggs to a cream and slowly 
add H cup salad oil, 1 teaspoonful salt, H teaspoonful pepper, 
H cup white vinegar and 2 white onions chopped very fine ; cut the 
potatoes into fine slices ; put a layer of potatoes into a salad dish 
and pour over some of the sauce ; then put in another layer of po- 
tatoes and sauce ; continue in this way until all is used ; then pour 
over J^ cup boiling water, cover and let it stand for 2 hours and 
then serve. The dish may be garnished with cresses or young let- 
tuce leaves; or lettuce leaves and boiled beets cut into fancy 
shapes. 

893. Salad Endive. — Take only young and fresh endive ; re- 
move the outer leaves, cut the endive into 1 inch pieces and wash 
and drain it ; then dress it with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, or 
with mayonaise. 

894. Beet and Cabbage Salad. — Cut the white leaves of a 

savoy cabbage into shreds ; remove the skins from 4 boiled beets 
and cut them into fine slices; chop a medium sized onion very fine; 



262 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

put the cabbage and beets in alternate layers into a salad dish, 
sprinkle between the onions, some pepper and salt, pour over h 
pint vinegar, cover and let it stand 1 hour ; then drain off the vine 
gar and add 4 tablespoonf uls sweet oil ; mix it well with 2 salad 
forks, put in a salad dish and serve. 

895. Yegetable Salad. — Cut with a tin tube some carrots and 
white turnips into small pieces and boil them separately in salted 
water; when done drain them in a colander; also boil small roses 
of cauliflower, green peas, beets and potatoes cut into small dice 
and some boiled string beans cut into small pieces ; mix all the in- 
gredients together and add 1 onion chopped very fine, some 
chopped parsley and chervil; add pepper, salt, oil and vinegar; put 
the salad into a salad dish and set it on ice for 1 hour. 

8%. Beet and Potato Salad. — Prepare a potato salad and 
mix it with half the same quantity of boiled beets cut into fine 
slices. 

897. Green Pepper Salad.— Scoop out the insides of 2 green 
peppers and lay them for 1 hour in cold water; in the meantime 
prepare a mayonaise as follows : — Stir the yolks of 3 eggs to a 
cream and add by degrees 3 tablespoonf uls oil, stirring constantly; 
when this is well mixed add 3 tablespoonf uls vinegar; set this in a 
saucepan of hot water and stir and boil till the contents begin to 
thicken ; then remove and stir until cold ; slowly add 3 tablespoon- 
fuls more oil, H teaspoonful salt, IH teaspoonfuls sugar 
and 1 tablespoonf ul English mustard; shortly before serv- 
ing add 1 tablespoonf ul condensed milk which is not sweet; chop 
fine 1 pound roast veal, lamb or boiled tongue, or 2 kinds of meat, 
3 hard boiled eggs and 1 large onion ; also chop the peppers very 
fine ; mix all together, pour over the mayonaise, mix it well and set 
the salad on ice for 1 hour ; in serving arrange it neatly on a salad 
dish, sprinkle over 1 tablespoonf ul capers and garnish with green 
lettuce leaves. 

898. Tripe Salad. — Boil 2 pounds honeycomb tripe in salt 
water till tender ; when done drain off the water, cut the tripe into 



SALADS. 263 

1 inch square pieces and mix it with mayonaise ; pnt the salad into 
a dish and let it stand in a cool place for 1 hour before serving. A few 
hard boiled eggs cut into slices may be added to this salad; also 
finely cut celery and lettuce leaves. 

899. Uerring Salad. — ^Lay 6 herrings for 24 hours in cold 
water, take them out, remove skins and bones, wipe dry with a 
towel and cut them into small square pieces ; cut in the same man- 
ner 3 boiled beets, 2 white onions, 1 pound roasted veal, 3 sour ap- 
ples and 5 small pickles ; mix these ingredients together and pre- 
pare the following sauce : — Stir the herring milk to a cream and slowly 
add 1 cup salad oil, 2 teaspoonfuls sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs, H 
cup vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls stewed cranberries, a pinch of cayenne 
pepper and 4 tablespoonfuls French mustard; when all are weU 
blended together mix the sauce with the herring and other ingredi-' 
ents and let it be ready 2 hours before serving; shortly before serv- 
ving put the salad into a dish and garnish with small girkins, beets 
cut into fancy shapes, salted olives, hard boiled eggs and capers or 
mixed pickles. 

900. Salad & L'italieniie.— Soak 6 Dutch herrings for 12 
hours in cold water ; then take them out, remove the skins and 
bones and cut the meat into small long strips a little wider than a 
straw and H inch in length ; also cut 1 pound cold boiled beef 
tonge, 1 pound cold roasted veal, 3 greening apples and 6 small 
pickles ; after the ingredients are all cut the same way mix them 
well together and mix them with a fine mayonaise ; set the salad on 
ice for several hours ; when ready to serve put the salad into a dish 
and garnish with finely chopped hard boiled eggs and salted olives; 
sprinkle over a few capers and serve. 

901. Chicken Salad. — Select a plump 1-year old chicken for 
this ; singe and draw it, wash in cold water and put the chicken in 
a kettle ; cover with boiling water, add h tablespoonf ul salt and 2 
onions; cover and boil slowly till tender; when done remove the 
kettle from the fire and let the chicken remain in the broth till 
cold ; then take it out, remove the skin and bones and cut the meat 



264 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

into small pieces ; take the white part of 1 nice banch celery and 
cut it very fine ; add it to the finely cut chicken, pour over Mayon- 
aific No. 1 and set it on ice for 2 hours before serving ; when ready 
to serve put the salad into a salad dish and garnish with the small 
celery tops, which should lay for 1 hour in ice water ; stick them 
all around in the salad and sprinkle H cup capers all over the 
salad. Some freshly grated cocoanut sprinkled over this salad is a 
great im])rovement ; or garnish to taste. 

903. How to Boil Lobster. — Select a good sized lobster, put 
it into a kettle of boiling water, head first, add a small 
handful salt and boil till the lobster has attained a bright red color, 
which will take from 20 to 30 minutes ; when done take the lobster 
out aud plunge it into cold water ; let it lay m the cold water for 5 
minutes ; then take it out and when cold put the lobster away in a 
cool place till wanted. 

903. Lobster Salad. — Split open the body and tail of a boiled 
lobster and crack the claws ; pick out all the meat and cut it mto 
pieces about ?i inch in size ; put the meat into a salad dish and 
pour over Mayonaise No. 1 ; let it stand in a cool place or on ice 
for H hour ; then garnish the dish ; lay a border of young lettuce 
leaves around the dish, lay over them some hard boiled eggs cut 
into quarters and sprinkle over the salad 1 spoonful capers. Canned 
lobster may be used for this salad. Another way is to cut white 
celery into small pieces, put it into a salad dish and mix well with 
a fine mayonaise ; then add the lobster meat cut into small pieces 
and let the salad stand on ice or in a cool place for 1 hour before it is 
served ; chop coarsely a few hard boiled eggs and sprinkle them 
over the salad. 

904. Salmon Salad. — Select a nice piece of salmon weighing 
about 2 pounds ; place a saucepan with boiling water over the fire 
and add a bunch of parsley with 2 bay leaves, 2 blades mace and a 
sprig of thyme ; add 1 onion with 4 cloves stuck in it, 1 tablespoon- 
ful salt and }4 cup vinegar; when this boils put in the salmon and 
let it boil 3 minutes ; then draw the kettle to side of stove and let it 



SALADS. 265 



/ 



simmer until tender; as soon as done remove the fish and set it in a 
cool place ; when cold remove the bones and break the meat into 
pieces ; put it into a salad dish, pile up high in the center, pour over 
a fine Mayonaise No. 1 and garnish the dish with young lettuce 
leaves or cresses ; chop some hard boiled eggs and sprinkle them 
with a few capers over the salad. It is best to let the salad stand 
on ice for 1 hour before it is garnished and served. Canned sal- 
mon can be used instead of fresh salmon. 

905. Shrimp Salad. — Extract the meat from some freshly 
boiled shrimp, put it into a dish, squeeze over some lemon juice, 
pour over a few spoonfuls fine oil and let it stand in a cool place for 
1 hour; 1 hour before serving put the shrimp into a salad bowl, 
pour over a fine mayonaise (see Mayonaise) and garnish with cresses 
or lettuce leaves and hard boiled eggs cut into quarters. 

906* How to Boil Shrimp* — ^Put the shrimp alive into the 
salted boiling water, allowing )^ pound salt to 1 gallon water ; boil 
them from 5 to 8 minutes; when they change color they are done; 
serve them with vinegar and oil. 

907. Halibut Salad. — ^Put a piece of halibut into salted boil- 
ing water with H pint vinegar and add 1 or 2 onions, a bunch of pars- 
ley, a sprig of thyme, 1 bay leaf, 6 cloves and 2 blades mace tied 
together ; bring it to a boil quickly ; draw the kettle to side of stove 
and let the fish simmer until tender ; when done take the fish out of 
the water and when cold cut it into 1 inch pieces ; put the pieces 
into a dinh high up in center and pour over it a mayonaise; 
garnish with green lettuce and hard boiled eggs. 

908. Oyster Salad. — ^To make a salad for 6 persons take 2 
dozen large oysters, put them with their liquor over the fire and let 
them boil 1 minute, but no longer ; take them out with a skimmer 
and lay in a dish ; when cold squeeze over the juice of 2 lemons and 
place the dish on ice for 1 hour ; shortly before serving put the 
oysters into a salad dish, lay some young lettuce leaves between 
them and pour over Mayonaise No. 1 ; lay young lettuce leaves in 
a circle around the dish, put some hard boiled eggs cut into slices 



266 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

between the lettuce and serve at once. Another way is to mix the 
oysters with finely cat white celery, dress them with the same may- 
onaise and ornament the salad with the tops of young celery ; hard 
boiled chopped eggs may also be sprinkled over with 1 spoonful 
capers. 

909. Oyster and Chleken Salad. — Remove the skin and 

bones from 1 cold, roasted chicken and cut the meat into pieces 1 
inch in size ; put it into a dish, sprinkle over a little salt, the juice 
of 2 lemons and pour over a few spoonfuls fine salad oil ; then place 
the dish on ice ; in the meantime scald 1 ^ dozen large oysters in 
their own liquor, take them out and put the oysters in a dish with 
some cracked ice ; have prepared 2 quarts sour jelly (aspic) and 
pour a few spoonfuls of it onto a large, shallow tin pan ; when firm 
trim the oysters so that there is nothing left but the eye ; lay them 
over the jelly (not too close together), pour over a little more cold 
jelly and when firm pour over sufficient cold jelly to entirely cover 
the oysters ; let it stand in a cool place till firm ; 10 minutes before 
serving wipe the chicken meat dry with a napkin ; pour some fine 
mayonaise into a salad dish, lay over a layer of the chicken meat 
and cover with mayonaise; continue in this way till all is used ; cover 
the whole with mayonaise in such a way that none of the chicken 
is seen ; then lay a border of cresses around it ; cut the oysters into 
rounds with a fluted cutter a little larger than the oysters, lay them 
on the cresses and serve. Lettuce may be used instead of cresses. 

910. Tomato Jelly. — Stew for % hour 1 can tomatoes with 
1 teaspoonf ul salt, 1 teaspoonf ul sugar, as much cayenne pepper as 
you can hold on the point of a knife and 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar; 
then press them through a sieve ; in the meantime soak 1 ounce gel- 
atine in H cup cold water for 15 minutes, add it to the tomatoes, 
put over the fire and stir till the gelatine is dissolved ; then strain 
through a flannel jelly bag; fill the jelly into small patty forms and 
set them in a cool place till firm. 

911. Tomato Jelly Salad. — ^Prepare a tomato jelly the 
same as in foregoing recipe; turn it out of the small forms, lay 



SALADS. 267 

into a salad dish, stick small pieces of white celeiy into each one, pat 
a border of young lettuce leaves around it, pour over a mayonaise 
and serve at once. Tomato jelly may be made in one large form 
and when hard chopped coarsely and used for garnishing dishes of 
cold meats or salads. 

912. Egg Salad. — ^Put H dozen eggs in a saucepan, cover 
with cold water and boil them 10 minutes ; transfer the eggs to 
cold water and let them lay till cooled off; when cold remove the 
shells and cut the eggs into quarters; put them into a salad dish 
with young lettuce leaves, pour over a mayonaise dressing and gar- 
nish with lettuce leaves. 

913. Eggs with Mayonaise. — Boil H dozen eggs 10 minutes ; 
then transfer them to a pan of cold water and when cold remove the 
shells ; take 6 small plates, put 2 lettuce leaves on each plate and 
put an egg in the center of the 2 leaves in such a way that the 
leaves stand round the egg like a tulip; pour over each egg 1 
tablespoonful mayonaise and sprinkle over a few capers; serve a 
plate to each person. 

914. Onion Salad. — ^Take 2 large Bermuda or California 
onions, peel and cut them with a sharp knife into fine slices, put a 
layer of the slices into a salad dish and pour over some fine may- 
onaise ; then put over some cresses and pour over more mayonaise ; 
continue in this way until all is used; cover with mayonaise, lay 
some cresses in a circle round the dish and let it stand on ice for 
10 minutes ; then serve. 

915. Alligator Pear Salad.— Take 2 alligator pears, cut 
them into slices and put them into a salad dish ; remove the shells 
from 4 hard boiled eggs, break the yolks into small pieces and 
sprinkle them over the sliced pears ; cut the whites into fine strips, 
lay them in a circle round the dish close to the pears, pour over a 
fine mayonaise and lay a border of tender lettuce leaves round the 
edge of dish. 

916. Jerusalem Artiehoke Salad.— Scrape the arti- 
chokes carefully and drop them into vinegar and water; mix H 



268 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

tablespoonf ul flour with a little cold water« stir it into a quart of 
boiling water and add 1 cup vinegar; as soon as this boils put in the 
artichokes and boil them till done, but not too tender ; when done re- 
move them from the water and set in a cool place ; when cold cut 
the artichokes into pieces, put them into a salad dish, pour over a 
mayonaise, set some shrimp around the salad and set the dish on 
ice for 1 hour; when ready to serve lay a border of lettuce leaves 
round the edge of dish. 

917. Soar Jelly (Aspic). — Soak 2 ounces gelatine in ^ pint 
cold water 15 minutes; then put it over the fire with 1 quart good 
meat stock and suflicient vinegar to give it a nice sour taste ; add a 
few cloves, 2 blades mace and 1 bay leaf; stir this over the fire till 
the gelatine is dissolved ; beat the whites of 2 eggs till light and 
add the -juice of 1 lemon and a little cold water; stir it with an egg 
beater into the jelly and stir and boil for a few minutes; then draw 
the saucepan to side of stove and let it stand 5 minutes ; then strain 
through a jelly bag ; or turn a chair upside down on a kitchen 
table ; then take a square piece of unbleached muslin and tie a cor- 
ner over each of the upturned legs of the chair ; set a bowl under- 
neath and pour the jelly onto the cloth a little at a time and keep 
the saucepan on the side of stove, to keep the jelly warm. If meat 
stock is not handy dissolve 2 teaspoonfuls Liebig's beef extract in 
1 quart boiling water and use it instead of meat stock. Another 
way is to boil 4 calves' feet till they fall apart; then strain off the 
liquor, set it aside and when cold remove all the fat ; boil the liquor 
down to 2 quarts ; then beat the whites of 4 eggs to a froth and 
add the juice of 1 lemon and a little water; add to the broth suffi- 
cient white vinegar to give it a nice sour taste ; also add a little 
salt, some whole pepper corns, a few blades mace, 4 cloves and 1 
bay leaf ; stir in the beaten whites, continue stirring, let the con- 
tents boil for a few minutes and let it stand 5 minutes ; then draw 
to side of stove, let it stand 5 minutes and strain through a flannel 
jelly bag. Pigs' feet or the skin of fresh pork may be used instead 
of calves' feet. Sour jelly is used for garnishing dishes of meat 
and salads. It is either chopped with a knife or put into small 



ICES AND GLAZES. 269 

fancy forms and when firm turned out and laid around the dishes 
with cresses, lettuce or celery between. If the jelly is not dark 
enough add a little sugar color (see Sugar Color). If the jelly is 
white it may be colored green with green spinach color or pink 
with cochineal. 

918.\ Garnishing* — The articles which are mostly used in 
garnishing arc : — ^Lettuce, cresses and hard boiled eggs (either cut 
into slices or quarters or chopped fine, the yolks and whites sepa- 
rately, and laid altemaj^ely in small clusters all over the salad) ; or cut 
green pickles in slices and lay them in a circle around the salad with 
small clusters of finely chopped beets and chopped eggs ; small gir- 
kins, capers, olives and very small, white pickled onions are also 
nsed for garnishing. Another way is to cut boiled carrots, white 
turnips and beets into fancy shapes, such as half moons, stars, leaves 
and roses, with a vegetable cutter; anchovies are also largely used 
in garnishing. They are freed from skins and bones and then rolled 
up and laid in a circle around the dish with small white onions, pink 
horseradish and olives or girkins. 

919. Horseradish for Garnishing. — ^Remove the outside 

black skin from a large root of horseradish and wash it clean ; then 
shave it off with a knife in long narrow strips so they curl up ; cblor 
14 the shavings with prepared cochineal and leave the other H 
white * then use for decorating dishes of meats or salads by laying 
it in small clusters around the dish. « 

920. Gocoannt for Garnishing Salads. — Grate cocoanut 

and sprinkle it over the top of salad. Especially nice over chicken, 
shrimp and fish salads ; also on potato, tomato and egg salads. 
Grated cocoanut lends a handsome appearance to any salad. 



ICES AND aLAZEa 

921* How to Use leing. — Over large cakes pour the icing by 
spoonfuls near center on top of cake and spread it with a broad- 
bladed knife dipped in cold water all over the cake as smoothly as 



270 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

poBfiible ; set it in a cool oven for a few minutes, then in a dry, airy 
place, free from dust, to dry. Some icing does not need to be put 
in the oven, as it dries immediately, as will be seen from the 
directions given in following recipes. Small cakes are dipped into the 
icing or into glaze and then laid on paper or tins to, dry. If the 
cake is to be ornamented make a paper funnel as follows : — ^Take a 
piece of brown paper, not too thick, or white tea paper 12 inches 
square and cut it through on the bias in two pieces from one comer 
to the other; take one piece in your right hand, the bias side from 
you, roll with the left hand, the bias side towards you, and form 
the paper into a funnel ; bend the end where it closes near the top 
over to the inside, clip a small piece from the end of funnel with a 
scissors and slip a small tube inside it to the end opening ; then put 
in the icing and bend the top of funnel in all around the same way 
as K pound tea is put up in those small funnel-shaped bags; next 
press the icing down towards the end and commence to squirt it on- 
to the cake. The cake may be ornamented with a border and a 
harp in the center, or an anchor or any kind of a pattern that may 
be desired. Flowers and leaves may be bought at any confectionery 
and pasted on with a little icing. 

922* White Icing. — Sift H pound powdered sugar into a 
bowl, add the whites of 2 eggs and stir 20 minutes ; add a few 
drops lemon juice while the stirring is going on ; drop a little icing 
onto paper; if the icing stands without running it is stiff enough; 
if it shows the least tendency to run more sugar must be added« 
This icing is used for ornamenting cake and serves as a kind of 
paste to stick flowers and leaves onto top of cake. 

923. Clear Icing. — Sift ^ pound powdered sugar into a bowl, 
add the whites of 2 eggs and stir for 5 minutes ; add a few drops 
lemon juice and stir 5 minutes longer ; then spread it over the cake ; 
set the cake for 2 or 3 minutes in a cool oven, take out and let it 
dry for a few hours in a dry place which is free from dust. 

924. White Icing with Wine or Liqnor.— Mix H 

pound sifted powdered sugar with the white of 1 egg and add 3 



ICES AND GLAZES. 271 

tablespoonfals maraBchino, Madeira or sheny wine, kirsch, rum or 
brandy ; before this icing is put on cover the cake with a layer of jelly ; 
then put the icing over it and set the cake for 1 minute in the oven ; 
then set it in a dry place which is free from dust to dry. To make pink 
icing add a few drops prepared cochineal or strawberry syrup. 
Yellow icing is made by adding prepared saffron. Essence of lemon 
or the grated rind of 1 orange may be used instead of vanilla 
flavoring. 

925. Almond Icing. — Pound 3 ounces blanched almonds with 
the white of 1 egg in a wedgewood mortar to a paste, mix them 
with H pound powdered sugar, the white of H egg and H tea- 
spoonful vanilla extract and stir for 5 minutes ; dip small pieces of 
cake into the icing ; pour and spread it over whole cakes with a 
broad-bladed knife. Hazel nuts and walnuts may be used the 
same way as almonds, as can also pistachio nuts. To the latter add 
a few drops spinach green. 

926. Fruit Icing. — Mix H pound sifted powdered sugar 
with the white of 1 egg and add 3 tablespoonfuls fruit juice — either 
raspberry, strawberry, currant, pineapple or peach ; if lemon or 
orange juice is used add a little grated rind ; spread the icing over 
the cake and set it for a few minutes in a cool oven ; then set it in 
a dry place which is free from dust to dry. 

927. Sugar Glaze. — Mix l cup powdered sugar with 2 table- 
spoonfuls water and put it over the fire to get lukewarm ; pour over 
the cake and let it dry, which will take but a few minutes ; dip 
small pieces of cake into it. Glazes of raspberries, strawberries, 
pineapples, peaches, wine, maraschino or rum are made the same 
way. Omit the water and use 2 tablespoonfuls fruit juice or wine, 
whichever kind is wanted. 

928. Maraschino Glaze. — Mix 1 cup sifted powdered sugar 
with 1 tablespoonf ul water and 1 tablespoonf ul maraschino, let it 
get warm on the fire and pour while warm over the cake. It will 



272 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

get hard iu a few minutes. Rum glaze is made the same as Mar* 
aschino Glaze. 

939. Orange Glaze. — Mix 2 tablespoonfuls orange juice with 
1 cup powdered Hugar, add a little grated rind, set over a slow fire 
to get lukewarm and use it at once. 

930. Lemon Glaze. — Stir l cup sifted powdered sugar with 
1 tal>les]MK>iiful lemon juice, 1 tablcHpoonful water and a little 
grated rind ; let it get lukewarm ; then spread it over the cake 
and set in a dry place which is free from dust to dry. 

'931. Coffee Glaze. — Mix l cup powdered sugar with 2 table- 
s|)oonfu]8 strong coffee, let it get lukewarm and use at once. 

932. Wine Glaze. — Boil 1 cup sugar with H cup water until 
it forms a thread between 2 fingers; remove it from fire, add 2 
tablespoonfuls sherry or Madeira wine and stir for 1 or 2 minutes ; 
then quickly pour it over the cake and let it stand in a dry place 
which is free from dust to harden. 

933. Boiled Cinnamon Glaze. — Boil 1 cup sugar with H cup 

w^ater an<l 1 teaspoonful powdered cinnamon until it forms a thread 
between 2 fingers; remove it from fire, stir for a few minutes 
and use at once. 

934. Chocolate Glaze. — Melt 2 tablespoonfuls grated choco- 
late in the oven and mix it with 2 tablespoonfuls sugar syrup; mix 
1 cup sugar with 1 tablespoonful water, add the chocolate, set it 
over a slow fire to get lukewarm and use at once. 

935. Cinnamon Glaze. — Mix 1 cup sifted powdered sugar 

with 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, add 2 tablespoonfuls water, set it 
over a slow fire, stir until lukewarm and use at once. 

936. Cold Sugar Glaze. — Mix l cup sifted powdered sugar 
with 2 tablespoonfuls cold water and add 1 teaspoonful lemon or 
vanilla extract ; spread glaze over the cake and set it for 1 or 2 



ICES AND GLAZES. 273 

minutes in a cool oven to obtain a glaze ; then remove and set in a 
dry place which is free from dust to dry. Note. — ^Instead of water 
any kind of fruit juice syrup, wine, rum or Cognac may be used. 
If lemon juice is used take H water, H juice and a little grated 
rind. For orange use a little rum and 2 tablespoonf uls orange 
juice. For coffee use instead of water 2 spoonfuls strong coffee. 
For chocolate stir in 2 tablespoonf uls grated chocolate or cocoa the 
same way, or melt the chocolate in the oven and then add it to the 
sugar. 

937. Boiled Chocolate Glaze* — ^Place a small saucepan with 
H pound sugar, H pound grated chocolate and H pint water over 
the fire and stir and boil till it forms a thread between 2 fingers ; 
remove from fire and stir until a thin skin forms on top of glaze ; 
then use it at once ; spread it evenly all over the cake and set for a 
few minutes in a cool oven. If the glaze should become too cold 
before it is all used return it to the fire and repeat again. The 
glaze when done should sl^ne like a mirror. 

938. Transparent Glaze. — Boil 1 cup sugar with H cup 

water until it forms a thread between 2 fingers ; remove it from 
fire, stir for a few minutes and then quickly use ; dip small pieces 
of cake into the glaze, pour over large pieces and spread it apart; 
let it dry in an airy room which is free from dust. 

939. Rose Glaze. — ^Boil 1 cup sugar with H cup water till it 
forms a thread between 2 fingers ; remove at once and add 2 table- 
spoonfuls rose water and a little prepared cochineal, to color it to a 
delicate pink ; stir for a minute and then pour it over the cake. 
Small cakes may be dipped into the glaze and set in a dry place 
which is free from dust to dry. 

940. Spinning Sngar.— Put H pound loaf sugar in a small 
copper kettle, add sufficient cold water to half cover the sugar and 
stir until it is melted ; then place the kettle over a strong fire and 
boil the sugar to a crack (the 6th grade) ; add a few drops vinegar, 

18 



274 DESSERTS ANT) SALADS. 

remove the kettle, dip it for a few minutes into cold water and let 
it cool off a little ; if the Bugar is spun when too hot the threads will 
be too thin and lumps will form; then place the kettle in a pan of hot 
water, or on the side of stove, to keep the sugar warmj take a large 
knife in the left hand and hold it out straight before you ; take a 
silver spoon in the right hand, dip it into the sugar without touch- 
ing the bottom of kettle and let some of the sugar run off from the 
spoon ; then spin long threads back and forth over the knife from 
right to left ; after a considerable amount of sugar is spun in this 
way take it from the knife, lay on clean paper and spin the rest in 
like manner ; when all is spun form the sugar into pompoms, gar- 
lands, bouquets, etc. Half the sugar may be colored with cochineal 
to a delicate pink. The sugar should be spun in a place free from 
draughts and in clear and dry weather. This sugar is used for dec- 
orating and trimming dishes. 

941. Boiling Sugar. — ^Put 1 pound sugar into a kettle with 
H pint water and let it stand for a few minutes ; then put it over 
the fire to boil ; while the boiling is going on dip a small brush into 
cold water and wipe off the sidcH and edge of kettle ; the different 
grades the sugar goes through in boiling are as follows : — 1st grade, 
broad run ; 2d grade, small pearl ; 3d grade, large pearl ; 4th grade, 
the' small blubber ; 5th grade, the large blubber ; 6th grade, to a 
crack ; 7th grade, caramel ; boil the sugar for a few minutes and dip 
th*e point of a spoon into it ; if the sugar falls in large drops from 
the spoon it has reached the 1st grade ; continue the boiling for a 
few minutes longer ; dip your first finger into it and press the finger 
against the thumb ; then open the fingers and if the sugar forms a 
thread between the 2 fingers it has reached the 2d grade ; after 
boiling a little longer dip in a spoon and if a pearl hangs onto a long 
thread of the spoon the sugar has reached the 3d grade ; after a few 
minutes longer boiling take a little in a spoon, blow it and if the 
sugar falls from the spoon in blubbers it has reached the 4th grade ; 
after a few minutes longer take a little of the sugar between your 
fingers and quickly dip into cold water ; if the sugar can be formed 
into a ball it has reached the 5th grade ; after a few minutes longer 



ICES AND GLAZES. 275 

dip the finger into the sngar and then quickly into cold water; if 
the sugar can be broken it has reached the 6th grade ; then set the 
saucepan in cold water ; if it boils a few minutes longer it will have 
reached the 7th grade, or caramel. The principal care in boiling 
sugar is to use the exact amount of water. With too little water 
the sngar will curdle before it has boiled enough. If too much 
water is used the sugar will have to boil too long and will turn 
yellow. It should boil quickly and only for a short time. It will 
then stay white. 




APPENDIX. 



CAKES. 

Cheese Torte. — One pound fresh pot cheese, ^/^ pint sonr 
cream, 1^/, ounce sweet almonds, 1^/^ ounce bitter almonds, 1 cup 
seedless raisins, 2 tablespoonfnls flour, 1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon- 
ful butter, 6 eggs, 1/4 teaspoonful salt. Blanche and grind the 
almonds fine or grate them on a nutmeg grater ; stir sugar, butter, 
and yolks to a cream, add all the ingredients, and last the beaten 
whites ; mix well and set aside till following paste is made : Sift 1 
pint of flour with 1 teaspoonful baking powder into a bowl, add 2 
tablespoonfnls sugar, ^/^ teaspoonful salt, and 1 tablespoonf ul butter. 
Bub the butter fine in the fiour, add 1 cup of milk and 1 egg, mix 
together into a firm dough, work it lightly on a board till it does 
not stick to the hands, then roll it out thin. Butter a large cheese- 
cake pan, dust it with^flour, and line the pan with the dough ; pour 
in the cheese preparation, and bake in medium-hot oven till nearly 
done. In the meantime stir the yolks of 2 eggs with 3 tablespoon- 
fnls granulated sugar to a cream, add 1 teaspoonful lemon juice 
and little grated rind, add the 2 beaten whites, and stir the whole 
10 minutes ; add last 3 level tablespoonfnls fiour. When the cake 
is firm to the touch remove it from the oven, pour over this last / 
mixture, and bake till done. Serve cold, dusted with sugar. The 
bitter almonds may be omitted if objected to, and the cake pan may 
be lined with puS paste or fine pie crust 

Pistachio Torte* — Four ounces almond paste, 4 ounces ground 

pistachio nuts or almonds, the yolks of 16 eggs, the whites of 8 eggs, 

3 ounces flour, Y^ pound sugar, y^ teaspoonful extract of pistachio ; 

rub the almond paste with the white of 1 egg fine; add the 16 

277 



278 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

yoUu and sugar ; stir 15 minntee, then add the ground pistachio 
nuts or almonds; continue the stirring 10 minutes; add the ex- 
tract; beat the whites to a stiff froth; add the yolk mixture to 
the whites while beating constantly; beat the whole together 5 
minutes; add the sifted flour; stir the flour in lightly; butter 2 
large deep jelly-cake tins and dust them with the flour ; fill in the 
mixture and bike in a slow oyen. Filling : Boil V^ cup of sugar 
with Vs cup water to a caramel, then add it slowly to the beaten 
whites of % eggs ; beat until cold ; add Vs teaspoonful vanilla sugar, 
Ys cupful fine-cut candied pineapples, Vt cupful fine-chopped pis- 
tachio nuts or almonds ; spread this filling over one layer, put on 
the remaining layer. Ice the cake with pistachio icing made as 
follows : Mix ly^ cup sifted powdered sugar with 3 tablespoonf uls 
boiling water and a little green coloring and pistachio fiavoring; 
pour over the cake and let stand till firm. 

Kagelhapf^ also called Bunt Kachen.— One pound flour, 10 
ounces butter, 2 yeast cakes, 6 whole eggs and 6 yolks, V4 cup of 
^g^t Vt teaspoonful salt, 1 cupful seeded raisins; break the yeast 
into a small bowl, add Vs cupful lukewarm milk and 1 teaspoonful 
sugar ; let it stand till the yeast rises to the surface, then add Ys 
cupful of flour, mix to a stiff batter ; cover and let stand till it is a 
light sponge. In the meantime stir butter and sugar to a cream ; 
add the yolks one at a time, then alternately a little flour and 1 
whole egg, till all are used ; beat this with the right hand 10 min- 
utes ; add the raisins, and last the sponge ; continue to beat 5 min- 
utes ; butter a large ribbed form with tube in the center ; dust with 
powdered sugar, pour in the cake mixture ; set the form in a warm 
place till the contents has risen to double its size ; then place the. 
form on a tin with salt and bake in a medium-hot oven about 45 
minutes. When done, take it out of the oven, let it stand a few 
minutes, then turn the cake out of the form, dust it with sugar, 
and serve when cold. 

Jelly Roll.— One half pound sugar, 9 ounces flour, 1 teaspoon- 
ful baking powder, 1 gill of milk (Yt cupful), 3 eggs, Yi teaspoonful 
lemon extract ; sift flour, sugar, and powder into a bowl and make 
a hollow in the center ; put in milk, eggs, and lemon extract, mix 
all together ; butter a large shallow tin pan, cover with paper, spread 



CAKES. 279 

on the mixture thin and evenly, bake in slow oven. When done, 
remove the pan, let it stand a few minutes to cool off a little, then 
torn it upside down on a clean piece of paper, remove the paper 
carefully from the cake which has laid in the pan, spread some cur- 
rant jelly over the surface, roll the cake up like a music roll, let it 
lie rolled in the paper till cold. This preparation is also nice for 
lady fingers. 

Election Cake. — One and a half pint lukewarm milk, 1 pound 
sugar, i/g pound lard, ^/g pound butter, 2 pounds flour, the whites of 
4 eggS) ^ pound citron, 1 pound seeded raisins, 1 teaspoonful mace, 
1/, cupful rum, 3 yeast cakes. Break the yeast into a cup of luke- 
warm milk, add 1 teaspoonful sugar, set the cup in a warm place 
till the yeast rises to the surface, put 1 cupful flour into a bowl, add 
the yeast, mix into a stiff batter, cover, and set in a warm place to 
rise till the sponge is very light In the meantime stir butter, lard, 
and sugar to a cream, add the mace, then alternately milk and flour, 
then the fruit and rum, and last the 4 whites beaten to a stiff froth ; 
beat the whole with the hand 10 minutes, then add the sponge ; 
continue to beat a few minutes longer, cover, and set it in a warm 
place to rise till double its size ; butter and dust with flour a large 
round cake pan, pour in the cake mixture, and bake in a medium- 
hot oven till done. When cold, ice the cake with rum icing. 

Small Sponge Cake. — Three eggs, ^/g cup granulated sugar, 
i/g cup flour, the grated rind of ^/g lemon, and a little lemon juice. 
Stir the 3 yolks with the sugar 15 minutes, then add the lemon ; 
beat the whites to a stiff froth, add them to the yolks, and beat till 
the sugar is all dissolved, which will take about 10 minutes, then 
sift in the flour, stir the flour in lightly ; butter and dust with flour 
a small round pan, pour in the mixture, and bake in a slow oven. 

Apple Ringlets. — Peel, core, and cut into thick slices 4 large 
tart apples, mix ^/g cup of flour with Vs teaspoonful baking powder, 
^/g teaspoonful butter, and ^/g teaspoonful salt Break 1 egg into 
^/g cup of cold water, beat until it foams, add the water and egg to 
the flour, and mix into a batter. Melt 1 tablespoonful lard and but- 
ter in a frying pan, dip the apple slices into the batter, put them 
into the fi7ing pan, not too many at once, and fry light brown on 



280 DESSERTS AKD SALADS. 

both sides, keeping the pan covered while the fiying is going on. 
Serre dusted with sugar. 

Baking-Powder Bolls* — One pint flonr, 1 heaping teaspoonfnl 
baking powder, >/, tablespoonful butter, i/, teaspoonful salt, ^/^ 
pint milk, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful sugar. Sift flour, salt, sugar, and 
powder into a bowl, add the butter and rub it fine with the flour, 
mix the egg and milk together, pour a little of the egg milk into a 
cup, add the remaining to the flour, mix all together with a knife 
into a firm dough, turn it on to a floured board, and work it to- 
gether to smooth the dough, roll it out ^/^ inch in thickness, then 
cut it into rounds, brush them over with a little melted butter, fold 
them over and set them on a buttered tin, brush the rolls over with 
the egg milk which was set aside, and bake in a quick oven. A 
good plan is to keep the rolls covered with buttered paper the first 
10 minutes while baking. 

Waffles. — Four ounces butter, 6 eggs, 4 ounces flour, 1 table- 
spoonful sugar, a pinch of mace, and a little grated lemon rind, ^/^ 
pint whipped cream. Stir the butter to a cream, add alternately 1 
yolk, then a little flour until both are used, add the sugar, the mace, 
and lemon, then the whipped cream, and last 5 whites whipped to 
a stiff froth ; rub a waffle iron with fork, pour 1 tablespoonful batter 
into each compartment, and bake the waffles light brown on both 
sides. Serve dusted with sugar. 

Gateau k la Weckesser. — Half pound of granulated sugar, 13 
yolks, 9 whites, i/, pound flour, and the rind and juice of 1 lemon. 
Stir sugar and yolks for 25 minutes by the clock, then beat the 
whites to a stiff froth ; add the yolks and sugar slowly to the white 
while beating constantly, add the lemon, continue the beating 5 
minutes, then add the sifted flour, stir in lightly ; butter a large 
round pan and dust it with fiour, pour in the batter, place the cake 
on a pan of salt, and bake in a slow oven. When done, turn it 
on to a board, which should be dusted with powdered sugar; let 
it lie till cold, then spread a layer of pineapple marmalade over the 
cake, ice it with white sugar glaze, and decorate the cake with 
candied fruit, of plums, apricots, and cherries. The fruit must be 
cut into small slices and the cherries in small dice. 



CAKES. 281 

Lady Cake. — Six ounces butter, */, pound sugar, 1 pound 
flour, 10 whites of eggs, */, pint whipped cream, 1 teaspoonf ul bak- 
ing powder, 1 teaspoonful vanilla sugar. Stir butter and sugar to a 
cream until white and frothy, add the vanilla sugar, sift flour and 
baking powder together, beat i/, pint cream until stiff ; beat also the 
10 whites to a stiff froth, then add alternately the three ingredients 
to the creamed butter and sugar ; butter and dust with flour a large 
round pan, pour in the mixture, and bake in a medium-hot oven. 
When done and cold, ice it with clear icing. 

Denmark Cake. — Two pounds flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, IV4 pound sugar, 1 pound butter, 2 pounds raisins, 8 eggs, 
1 pint sweet milk, */, pint wine, 3 tablespoonfuls allspice, 3 table- 
spoonfuls cinnamon, 4 nutmegs. Sift flour and baking powder to- 
gether, stir butter and sugar to a cream, add gradually the yolks 
and spice, then alternately milk, flour, and wine, last the fruit. 
Bake in a large well-buttered pan in medium-hot oven. 

Stnllen with Baking Powder.— -One pound flour sifted with 
i/s teaspoonful salt, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, ^/, cup of but- 
ter, */g cup of sugar, and 2 eggs, the fine-chopped peel of */, lemon, 
1 cupful seeded raisins, */, cupful fine-cut citron, '/^ cup of milk. 
Rub flour and butter together, add sugar, salt, milk, and eggs, mix 
all together; add last the fruit, turn the dough on to a floured 
board and work it a little to smooth the dough, then roll it out 1 
inch in thickness, fold it over and lay the cake in a buttered pan, 
giving it the shape of a half moon ; brush over with beaten egg and 
bake in medium-hot oven. 

Wine Baba. — One pound flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 4 ounces butter, 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, the fine- 
chopped peel of 1 lemon, 4 eggs, */, pint milk, */, cup currants, 
*/g cup seeded raisins, */, cup fine-cut citron. Sift flour and baking 
powder together, stir butter and sugar to a cream, add by degrees 
the yolks and lemon, then alternately flour and milk, next add the 
fruit, and last the beaten whites. Fill the mixture into a buttered 
form with a tube in the center, place it in a medium-hot oven, and 
bake about 40 minutes or till done. In the meantime boil 1 cup 
sugar with ^/g cup water 5 minutes, remove from fire, add 1 gill 



282 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

sherry wine and a few tablespoonfols of raspberry syrup. When 
the cake is done tarn it on to a sieve, place the sieve on a hirge 
plate, and ponr the syrup by spoonfuls over the cake; pour that 
which runs below in the plate over the cake again. 

Bunt Kuchen with Baking Powder.— One pint flour, 1 
heaping teaspoonf ul baking powder, i/, teaspoonful salt, 3 table- 
spoonfuls sugar, 2 ounces batter, 2 eggs, ^/, pint milk, ^/g cup cur- 
rants, ^/g cup stoned raisins, the grated rind of ^/g lemon. Sift 
flour and baking powder together, add the sugar, stdt, and butter, 
rub the butter flne in the flour, mix the yolks with the milk and 
add them to the flour, mix all into a dough, add the fruit, and 
last the beaten whites. Fill the mixture into a round battered 

ft 

form with a tube in center and bake about 35 minutes ; cover the 
flrst 20 minutes with battered paper. 

"EmelinM.— First Part : The whites of 6 eggs, 1 cup powdered 
sugar, 1 cup flour sifted with 1 teaspoonful baking powder, Vt tea- 
spoonful lemon extract, 1 tablespoonfnl melted butter, measured 
after it is melted, 2 tablespoonf uls milk. Beat the whites till stiff, 
then add gradually the sugar, butter, lemon extract, and milk, and 
last the flour. Butter a long shallow tin pan (13 inches long, 9 
inches wide, and 1 inch deep), dust it with flour, pour in the mix- 
ture, smooth it even with a knife, and bake in a medium-hot oven. 

Second Part : The yolks of 6 eggs, 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 cup 
flour sifted with 1 teaspoonful baking powder, 2 tablespoonfuls milk, 
1 tablespoonfnl batter, Vs teaspoonful lemon extract Stir butter, 
sugar, and yolks to a cream, add lemon extract, flour, and milk ; 
bake the same as the flrst part When the cakes are nearly cold lay 
them over one another with a layer of jelly between, then cut it 
into fancy shapes like half moons, small rounds, and squares ; glaze 
them with sugar glaze No. 927. In place of jelly, cream or any 
other flUing may be taken. The two cakes may be spread separately 
with jelly, then rolled up like jelly rolls. 

Sand Wafers. — Stir 4 ounces batter with 6 tablespoonfuls su* 
gar till light and creamy, add gradually 3 eggs, the grated rind of 
i/g lemon, stir 15 minutes, add last 7 ounces sifted flour. Fill the 
preparation in a pastry bag, butter and dust with flour some large 



CAKES. 283 

shallow tin pans, press small cakes from the bag on to the pans the 
size of a 50-cent piece, and bake in medium-hot oven. When done 
and cold, glaze them with fruit glaze or leave them plain. 

Cream 8. — Stir ^/, pound butter with 6 ounces sugar to a 
cream, add 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla sugar and 4 eggs, stir 10 minutes ; 
add last ^/^ pound of sifted flour. Put the preparation into a kiss 
syringe and press small cakes in the shape of an S into buttered 
and floured pans, bake in medium-hot oven, and when cold glaze 
them with yanilla glaze. 

Aniseed Wafers. — Rub some shallow tin pans with wax, place 
1/, pound sugar and 4 whole eggs in a bowl, set the bowl into a pan 
of hot water, beat the contents of bowl with an egg beater 15 min- 
utes, then remove and beat till cold ; add 1 teaspoonf ul well-cleaned 
aniseed and ^/^ pound sifted flour, fill the mixture into a pastry bag 
and press small cakes on to the waxed tins, cover and let them stand 
till next day, when the little cakes have obtained a crust, then bake 
them in slow oven. 

Cinnamon Sticks. — Four ounces of almond paste, the white 
of 1 egg, 4 ounces powdered sugar, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon. Mix 
all together, put on to a floured board ; roll it out ^/g inch thick, 
cut the paste into 3 long strips 3 fingers wide, spread over an icing 
made as follows: Mix the whites of 2 eggs with ^/, pound pow- 
dered sugar, add ^/^ teaspoonful cinnamon and a few drops of 
lemon juice, stir 5 minutes, then cut. the strips into small sticks a 
finger wide, lay them on to buttered tins, and bake in a slow oven. 

Meringue Shells. — Beat the whites of^ 4 eggs to a stiff froth, 
add 1/, pound granulated sugar and a little vanilla sugar, stir the 
sugar in lightly ; fill this into a pastry bag or a paper funnel ; press 
small portions on to a double-folded paper, dust thickly with sugar, 
lay the paper in a pan, and bake in a slow oven. When done and 
cold, remove them from the paper, press the soft bottoms into shape 
to form a shell, and serve filled with whipped sweetened cream or 
ice cream. 

« 

Kisses. — Five ounces whites of egg, 1 pound granulated sugar, 
1 cup water, 4 ounces powdered sugar. Put the granulated sugar 



284 B1QB6EBT8 AND SALADS. 

• 

and water in a saucepan, stir until the sugar is dissolred, then place 
the saucepan OTer the fire, and boil to a crack; hare the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth, and add slowly the hot sugar while beating 
constantly with an egg beater, then beat until cold. This may then 
be used as it is, and if wanted very stiff, add the 4 ounces pow- 
dered sugar; stir it through the mixture lightly, then put the 
meringue in a kiss syringe, dust some paper with powdered sugar, 
press the mixture on to the paper in any shape desir^. For shells 
it may be put on with a spoon, dust them with sugar, and bake in a 
slow oven. The OTen may be left open part of the time. In place 
of paper, rub some tin pans with butter, then rub off all the butter 
witiii paper, and dust them with powdered sugar, then put the kisses 
on them. 

Banana Cake. — ^Three bananas, 1 cup of currant jeUy, Vt pii^t 
of whipped cream, 3 ounces butter, '/^ cup sugar, 1^/, cups of flour, 
1 teaspoonf ul baking powder, the whites of 3 eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth, i/s cup milk, the juice and grated rind of ^/, lemon. Sift 
flour and baking powder together, stir butter and sugar to a cream, 
add the lemon, then alternately flour, milk, and the white of egg ; 
butter 2 jelly tins of medium size, dust them with flour, divide the 
cake mixture evenly in the tins, and bake in a medium-hot oven. 
When done and cold, spread half of the jelly over one layer, cover 
with banana slices, lay over the second layer, put on the remaining 
jelly and bananas; mix the whipped cream with 1 tablespoonful 
fine sugar and a little vanilla, cover the whole cake with cream, or 
take 1 pint of whipped cream and put half of the cream between 
the layers and the remaining over the top, and serve. 

Neapolitan Cake. — Boll out some puff paste to ^/g inch in 
thickness, cut it into 3 strips 5 inches *wide and about 10 inches 
long ; moisten a large shallow tin pan with cold water, put in the 
strips, dust them with powdered sugar, and bake in a medium-hot 
oven. When done and cold, cover 1 strip with boiled vanilla cream 
(see recipe No. 139), put over this the second strip, and spread over 
some currant jelly ; lay on the third strip. Mix */, cup powdered 
sugar with 1 tablespoonful boiling water and a few drops of lemon 
juice, pour it over the cake, and set aside till firm. 



CAKES. 285 

One-Egg Cake. — One cup sogar, 1 egg, a piece of butter the 
size of a walnut, 2 scant cups of flour sifted with 1 heaping tea- 
spoonful baking powder, ^/^ teaspoonful extract of lemon or vanilla, 
1 cup of milk ; rub butter and flour together, add the sugar, milk, 
and egg ; mix into a batter, butter a square pan, dust with flour, 
put in the mixture, and bake in a medium-hot oven till done. This 
mixture may be baked in 3 small jelly tins, and when done lay them 
over one another with jelly marmalade or cream between them ; or 
bake it in a pan 12 inches long and 8 inches wide and 1^/, inch 
deep. When done, cut the cake in half, lay them over one another 
with jelly or cream between, then mix 1 cup sifted powdered sugar 
with 1 teaspoonful lemon juice and 2 tablespoonfuls boiling water, 
stir until smooth, pour the icing over the cake, and let stand till 
firm. 

For a chocolate cake, bake the cake the same way, then mix 1 
cup of powdered sugar with the white of 1 egg; melt 4 ounces 
Baker's chocolate, add it to the sugar, mix all together, put half of 
it between the cake, and spread the remaining over the top of the 
cake. 

For a strawberry shortcake, bake the mixture in 2 small well 
buttered and floured jelly tins, wash and mash 1 quart of strawber- 
ries, mix with ^/^ cup sugar, put half of them between the 2 layers, 
and the remainder on top ; serve with cream or vanilla sauce, or put 
some whipped cream over the strawberries. 

Spice Cake. — Three fourths cup butter, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup 
sugar, 3 eggs, 3 cups flour sifted with V/^ teaspoonful baking 
powder, 1*/, teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful cloves, */, grated 
nutmeg, 1 cup sour milk or cold coffee. Stir butter and sugar to a 
cream, add the eggs one at a time, stir a few minutes between each 
addition, add molasses and spice, then alternately flour and milk. 
Butter a square cake pan, dust with flour, pour in the cake mixture, 
and bake in medium-hot oven; or bake small cakes in gem pans 
and when cold ice them with sugar glaze. 

Molasses Cake. — One cup molasses, ^/g cup butter, 2 eggs, 
i/s cup milk, ^/, tablespoonful ginger, 2 cups flour sifted with 1 tea- 
spoonful baking powder. Mix and bake the same as above. 



286 DKSSERTS AN!) SALADS. 

Gingerbread. — One cnp brown sugar, 1 cnp molasses, */, cup 
butter or lard, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful ginger, ^/g teaspoonful ground 
mace, */g cup cold coffee, ^/^ teaspoonful salt, 1 heaping teaspoon- 
ful baking powder sifted with 3 cups of flour. Stir butter or lard 
with the sugar to a cream, add the eggs one at a time, stirring a few 
minutes between each addition ; then add the spice and syrup, last 
the flour and coffee alternately ; pour the mixture into a square or 
long pan previously well buttered and dusted with flour; bake in a 
medium-hot OTen. 

Ginger Snaps. — Half pound brown sugar, */, pound butter, 1 
pint molasses, 1 tablespoonful ginger, 1 teaspoonful cloves, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful baking powder sifted with 2 cups 
flour. Stir butter and sugar to a cream, add the molasses and spice ; 
when well mixed add flour and work it into a soft dough ; if neces^ 
sary, add more flour, roll out very thin, cut into rounds, and bake on 
buttered tins. 

Corn Bread. — One pint of com meal, ^/g cup of flour, 1 tea- 
spoonful baking powder, 1 egg, Vs teaspoonful salt, iVt tablespoon- 
ful sugar, 1 cup milk. Mix all together and bake in a well-but- 
tered square tin pan. This bread should be about 1^/, inch thick 
when done. 

FROZEN DESSERTS. 

Mignon Cream.— One pint milk, the yolks of 4 eggs, »/« cup- 
ful cream, 1 cupful sugar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla sugar. Place a 
small pan with 3 tablespoonfuls of the sugar over the fire, stir until 
it melts and turns light brown, then add 1/4 cup hot water, let it 
boil to a thin syrup and add it to the milk ; add the yolks, sugar, 
and vanilla, mix well and freeze. 

Malborn Cream. — Gut ^/^ pound candied fruit into small 
pieces, place it in a bowl with 1/, gill of sherry wine, then place a 
double boiler with ^/g pint of milk, the yolks of 2 eggs, and V4 <^up 
of sugar over the fire, stir until just about to boil, remove instantly, 
and when cold add ^/, pint of cream, 1^/, tablespoonful best rum, 
put the cream in a freezer, and freeze till nearly stiff, then add the 
candied fruit ; continue the freezing till finn. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 287 

Banana lee Cream. — Remove the peel from 6 ripe bananas 
and mash them fine, mix 1 pint of cream with ^/^ pint milk, 1 cup 
of sagar, and 2 teaspoonf uls vanilla ; put the cream into the freezer, 
and freeee till it begins to thicken, then add the bananas, and freeze 
till firm. 

Frozen Caramel Cream. — Put in a double boiler 1 cup milk, 
1 cup cream, '/i <^^P sugar, and the yolkf of 3 eggs ; beat well, then 
place over the fire, and stir till nearly boiling ; when cold, add thin 
slowly to the 3 beaten whites while stirring constantly ; put 3 ta- 
blespoonfuls sugar over the fire, stir till it turns yellow, add a little 
water, boil to a syrup. When cold, add it to the cream, and freeze. 
In place of caramel, 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla extract may be added. 

Ice Cream without MUk or Cream.— One pint water, 1 
ounce butter, the yolks of 3 eggs, 1 cup of sugar, the peel of ^/, 
lemon, and ^/^ tablespoonful lemon juice ; beat 3 whites to a stiff 
froth; wash the butter several times, stir sugar and yolks to a 
cream, add the water and butter, place it in a double boiler, stir 
till nearly boiling; remove, and when cold add the whites, then 
freeze. 

Lemon Sherbet. — The juice of 4 lemons and 1 orange, 2Vt 
cups sugar, 1 quart water ; boil sugar and water to a syrup ; when 
cold add the lemon and orange juice and freeze ; add last 1 or 2 
beaten white of eggs, mix, and serve. 

Strawberry Sherbet.— Put the juice of 1 lemon over 1 quart 
of mashed strawberries ; boil 1 quart water with 2 cups sugar, pour 
it over the strawberries, and when cold rub them through a sieve, 
then freeze ; add last the white of 1 beaten egg, mix, and serve. 

Coffee Frappe. — Boil 1 quart water with ^/, cup sugar, add 4 
ounces fine-ground coffee, cover and set on side of the stove 10 
minutes ; then strain, and when cold add the white of 1 egg ; then 
freeze, and serve in glasses with whipped cream on top. 

Coffee Sorbet. — Pour 3 pints of boiling water over 1 cup of 
fine-ground coffee, cover, and let it stand 15 minutes, then strain 
through a napkin; add 1 cup sugar, stir till dissolved, and when 



288 DEssisrrs and SALADa 

cold freeze it till nearly stiff ; add 1 gill of the best brandy, oontinue 
the freezing for a few miniitefi, and aenre. 

CUSTARD. 

Caramel Custard. — Boil 1 cup sugar with </, cup water till 
the sugar begins to turn light brown, then pour it into a pudding- 
dish. Mix at the same time 1 quart of milk with 6 eggs, 4 table- 
spoonfuls sugar, 1 teaspoonful yanilla extract; pour this into the 
dish, set the dish in a pan of water, and bake till the custard has 
set. RemoYe and place it for several hours on ice. In serying, 
turn the custard out on to a dish, and serve. This custard may 
be put into small molds or cups and baked the same way. 

Coeoanut Caramel. — Mix the whites of 8 eggs with 1 Vs pint 
of milk, i/g cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract, and l^/^ cup 
fresh coeoanut; let it stand 1 hour. Place 1 cup of sugar with >/, 
cup water over the fire, boil until it begins to turn yellow, then poor 
it into 6 small bowls ; spread the caramel even with a spoon so that 
the bowls are completely lined inside, then pour in the custard, set 
the bowl in a pan of water so that the water reaches halfway up 
the bowls, and bake till the custard is firm te the touch. When 
done, remove the bowls and set them in a cool place. In serving, 
turn the custard on to small plates, and serve. 

Caramel Charlotte. — Put Vs ounce gelatin in a small bowl 
with Vt S^ll of cold water ; at the same time place a small saucepan 
with 3 tablespoonfuls sugar over the fire, stir until the su^r is 
melted and has assumed a rich brown color, then add */, pint milk ; 
cook and stir till the sugar is dissolved, mix the yolks of 5 eggs with 
3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla, and 2 tablespoonfuls 
colli milk ; add a little of the hot caramel milk to the yolks, then add 
«the yolks to the caramel milk, stir over the fire till nearly boiling; 
instantly remove, add the gelatin, stir until dissolved, then strain 
into a bowl, and set aside to cool. Beat 1 pint of cream till stiff, 
when the caramel mixture begins to thicken add it slowly to the 
cream while beating constantly ; in the meantime fit a piece of 
white paper in the bottom of a charlotte mold, line the sides and 
bottom with thin slices of sponge cake, pour in the cream, cover 



SAUCES. 289 

the top with sponge cake the aame way. Place the charlotte on ice 
for several hoars. When ready to serre turn the charlotte on to a 
dish and garnish with a wreath of spnn sugar or serye plain. 

Strawberry Charlotte. — Prepare a strawberry fromage, No. 
189, line a mold with sponge cake or lady fingers the same as in the 
foregoing recipe, pour in the strawberry fromage, coyer with the 
same cake or fingers, and set on ice. When ready to serre, turn the 
charlotte on to a dish, remove the paper, and serve with cream, 
which should be sweetened with sugfer and flavored with vanilla, or 
serve plain without the cream. In place of strawberry fromage any 
other kind of fromage may be used. 

SAUOES. 

Bismarck Sauce.— Stir the yolk of 2 eggs with 1 cup of 
powdered sugar to a cream, add slowly Vt <^^P ^^ Bhine wine, beat 
the white to a stiff froth, add the sauce slowly to the white while 
beating constantly, add last i/, cupful whipped cream. In place of 
Bhine wine sherry wine may be taken. 

Transparent Sanee. — Mix 1 heaping teaspoonful cornstarch 
in a small saucepan with ^/^ cup cold water, add 1 cupful boiling 
water and the thin peel of ^/g lemon ; set the saucepan over the fire, 
stir and boil a few minutes, then remove, add 2 tablespoonfuls lemon 
juice and 8 or 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, or sweeten to taste. To this 
sauce a few spodtifuls of strawberry or raspberry syrup or juice may 
be added. 

Orange Sauce. — Stir the yolks of 3 eggs with 1 cupful pow- 
dered sugar to a cream, add slowly 1 cupful orange juice and 3 ta- 
blespoonfuls lemon juice ; beat the whites to a stiff froth, add slowly 
while beating constantly the orange mixture to the whites ; serve 
either with hot or cold puddings. 

Cream Sauce.— Stir the yolks of 2 eggs with Vt cupful pow- 
dered sugar to a cream, add ^/g cupful orange juice and 1 table- 
spoonful lemon juice ; beat the whites to a stiff froth, add the orange 
mixture slowly to the whites while beating constantly; add last 1 
cupful whipped cream. In place of orange juice any kind of fruit 



290 DE8SERT8 AND 6ALAJ>8. 



jaioe may be taken, or jelly may be diaBolved in hot water aad need 
the same way. 

Fruit 8aace.*-*Miz 1 teaepoonfnl oomstarch in a small sauce- 
pan with i/g gill of cold water, add while stirring constantly 1 cup- 
ful boiling water, the thin peel of i/, lemon ; place the saucepan 
OTer the fire and boil a few minutes ; remoTC from fire, add V4 cup- 
ful fruit syrup, either of raspberry, strawberry, aprioot, or cherries, 
and 1 tablespoonful lemon juice ; if handy, add 3 or 3 tablespoon- 
fuls white wine, and serye with soufSi and light delicate puddings. 
It may also be served cold with puddings. In place of fruit syrup, 
strawberry or cherry marmalade may be taken, or apple or currant 
jeUy. 

Raspberry Saaee* — Mix 1 heaping teaspoonful oomstarch in 
a small saucepan with a little cold water ; add slowly while stirring 
constantly 1 cupful boiling water, a smidl piece of cinnamon, and 
the thin peel of >/g lemon ; place the saucepan oyer the fire, cook a 
few minutes, then remoTe, add 1 cupful fresh raspberry juice, >/g 
cupful sugar, and 1 tablespoonful lemon juice ; if liked and handy, 
a little Rhine wine or white wine may be added ; serye either hot or 
cold. If raspberry syrup is used, omit the sugar. 

Cream Cakes Olasse. — Boil ^/g pint milk with 3 ounces but- 
ter, add 4 ounces flour, stir until it forms into a smooth paste and 
loosens itself from the bottom and sides of the saucepan, transfer 
the paste to a dish, and when nearly cold add the yolks of 4 eggs, 
and last the beaten whites ; drop this mixture (by tablespoonfnis) 
on to buttered tins, not too close together, brush them over with 
the beaten egg, and bake to a fine golden color and well done. 
When done and cold, cut the cakes open on the side and fill them 
with vanilla cream. No. 129 ; half the quantity of cream will be 
sufficient. Place the cakes on a sieve, boil 1 cup of sugar with ^/g 
cup water till the sugar begins to turn light brown (caramel), in- 
stantly remove, and pour it over the cakes. 



CONTENTS. 



BAUCES. 

Wine Ghaudeati 5 

White Wine Sauoe 5 

Wine Cream Sauoe , 6 

Claret Sauoe 5 

Bishop Sauce 6 

Madeuti Sauce, No. 1 6 

Madeira Sauce, No. 2 6 

> Butter Sauoe 6 

Sherry Wine Sauce, No. 1 6 

Sherry Wine Sauce, No. 2 6 

Sherry Wine Sauoe, No. 8. 6 

Wine or Brandy SeMice '. « » 7 

Arrack Sauce (Allemande) 7 

Arrack Sauce (Ebigli^) 7 

Brandy Sauoe wiSi Milk ("English Style '0 7 

Brandy Sauce (American), No. 1 7 

Brandy Sauce, No. 2 7 

Punch Sauce 7 

Rum Sauce 8 

Sauce & la Diaz 8 

Wine Chaudeau with Rum 8 

Wine Sauce with Almonds and Raiedns 8 

Hard Sauoe « 8 

Hard Sauce with Cherries 9 

Strawberry Sauoe 9 

Sauce of Apricots 9 

Sauce of Cherries, No. 1 9 

Sauoe of Cherries, No. 2 9 

Strawberry Hard Sauca 9 

Raspberry Sauce, No. 1 10 

Raspberry Sauce, No. 2 10 

Huddeberry Sauoe 10 

Sauce of Dried Cherries 10 

Nut Sauce 10 

Hard Sauce with Nuts 10 

Strawberry Custard Sauce 11 

Fruit Sauoe(not boiled) 11 

Peadi Sauce, No. 1 U 

89) 



292 DfiSSSRTS AND SALADS. 



P^ach Saiioe, Na 2 11 

Sauce of CurrantB and Raflpberries 12 

Cream Sauce with Jellj, No. 1 12 

Cream Sauce with Jelly, Na 2 12 

Lemon Sauce, No. 1 12 

Lemon Custard Saiioe 12 

Lemon Sauce with Liquor 12 

Sauce & L'oianse 12 

Sauce au Kincn ' 18 

Lemon Sauce, No. 2 • 13 

Lemon Cream Sauce 13 

Almond Sauce 13 

Chocolate Sauce 13 

Chocolate Cream Sauce 13 

Vanilla Cream Sauce 1 

Vanilla Sauce 1 

Sauce d la Cream (sweet) 1 

White Sauce 1 

Cream Sauce (plain) 1 

Vanilla Sauce (plain) 1 

Vanilla Sauce with Cognac 1 

Caramel Sauce 15 

Coffee Cream Sauce 15 

Nutmeg Sauce 15 

Orange (^ream Sauce 15 

Sabayon Sauce 15 

Strawberry Chaudeau Sauce 16 

Hneapple Chaudeau Sauce 16 

Raspberry Chaudeau Sauce 16 

Cocoanut Snow Sauce 16 

Cocoanut Sauce (another way) 16 

Snow Sauce with Orange Flavor 16 

Pistachio Sauce 17 

Cold Pineapple Sauce 17 

FBUrr AKD SUGAB STBUPS. 

Plain or Sugar Syrup 17 

Pineapple Syrup 17 

. Strawberry Syrup 17 

Raspberry Syrup 18 

Raspberry and Currant Syrup 18 

Raspberry Syrup without Fruit 18 

Raspberry Syrup without Boiling 18 

Blackberry Syrup 18 

Peach Syrup 12 

Apricot Syrup 12 

Cherry Syrup 12 

Wild Cherry Syrup 12 

WUd Cherry Bark Syrup 19 

VanillaSyrup 12 

Vanilla Cream Syrup 19 

Cream Syrup 20 

Lemon Syrup • 20 



CONTENTS. 293 

WAom 

Lemon Qyrvcp with Oil of Lemon 20 

LemoQ Syrup (anotiier way) 20 

Lemon Syrup (plain). ..r 20 

Onmge ^rrup 20 

Orange FlowerSyrup 20 



:-;':^:^v 



'CE8 AND 



• 



Essence of Lemon 21 

Essence of Vanilla 21 

Bishop Asence 21 

Essence of Oranges 21 

Peach Knwmice 21 

Bitter Almond Essence 21 

Coffee EBBence 21 

Celery Easence 21 

Btxawbeny Essence 22 

Raspberry Essence 22 

RoseEsseooe 22 

Orange Blosaom Extract 22 

Orange Peel Extract 22 

HEBHrGUES. 

Italian Meringue. 23 

Plain Meringue 22 

Spinach Gieen for Coloring 28 

Sugar Color 23 

OOLOBED AND FIiAVOBED SUGABS. 

Lemon Sugar 28 

Vanilla Sugar. 28 

Red Sugar 23 



)i]gar... 
1 Sugar. 



Green Suflar. 28 



'• 



Crdme f rangaise & la vanille 28 

Cr^me frangaise au chocolat 24 

Creme franQaise aux amandes 24 

Cr^me fiangaise au Caf6 24 

CrSme frangaise au Th6 .24 

Cr^me franQaise au Maiasquin 25 

Crdme frangaise au rhum 25 

Petits pots ci4me & la vanille ^. 25 

CrSme au bain-Marie au caramel 25 

Creme au bain-Marie au chocolat 25 

Vienna Orange Cream 26 

Vienna Lemon Cream 26 

Milk Cream 36 

Russian Cream 26 

Sabayon of Oranges 27 

Sabayon of Lemon 27 

\V hipped Cream 27 



294 DESSERTS AND SALADS. - 



Whipped Crmm with BtrawbenieB 27 

Cream with Pineapple 37 

Whipped Cream with Chocolate 28 

Whipped Cream with Oranges 28 

Cr^me fouett6e & la Cobby 28 

Whipped Cream with Peabhes 28 

Whipped Cream with Cherries 28 

BOnJED CREAMS. 

VaaiDa Cream 29 

Chocolate Cream 29 

OrangeCream 29 

Almond Cream «. 29 

CoffeeCream 29 

CiSme Fraogipane & la Yftoille 29 

JKTiTiTKfl. 

To Clarify Gelatine. 80 

To Clarify Sugar 80 

To Clarify Fruit Juice 80 

Jelly Bag . .,. 81 

Orange Jelly 81 

Plain Orange Jelly 81 

Leition Jelly 82 

Strawberry Jelly 82 

Pineapple Jelly 82 

Jelly of Peaches 88 

Raspberry Jelly 88 

Wme JeUy 83 

Rhine Wine JeUy 84 

Champagne Jelly 84 

Apple Jelly 84 

Cider JeUy 84 

Rose Jelly 85 

Gelee russe 85 

MacMoine de fruit & la russe 85 

Calvesfoot Jelly 86 

MacMoine de fruits au vin du Rhine 86 

Gelte d la moscovite 86 

Orange Baskets with Jelly 87 

Orange Quarters Used for Oamishing Jellies and Other Dishes 87 

Almond Blanc-Mange 87 

Chocolate Blanc-Mange 88 

Blanc-mange marbe au chocolat 88 

Cream Blanc-Mange 88 

Plain Blanc-Mange 89 

Cocoanut Blanc-Mange 89 

Neapolitan Blanc-Mange 89 

Nest with Eggs ; 89 

Fromage bavarois & la vanille, No. 1 40 

Fromage bavarois a la yanille, No. 2 40 

l^romage bavarois aux pistache 40 



-"" ^' CONTENTS. 295 

FAAS 

Fromage baTarois aux amandeB 40 

Fromage bavarois au Caf6 41 

Fromage bavarois au Th6 41 

Fromage bavarois au chooolat 41 

Lemon Fromage 41 

Orange Fromage 41 

Pineapple Fromage 42 

Peach Fromage 42 

Strawberry Fromage 42 

Rum Bavarois » 43 

Fromage Bavarois Cardinal 43 

Fronu^ bavarois au pain noir 43 

Snow Pudding 44 

Wine Pudding 44 

Apple Jelly Puddmg 44 

Maraschino Pudding 44 

Manilla Pudding 45 

Rum Pudding 45 

Fine Chocolate Pudding 45 

Fine Claret Pudding 46 

White Wine Pudding 46 

Cold Apple Pudduig 46 

FINE COLD PUDDINGHS. 

Pudding k la polonaise 47 

Peach Pudding with Champagne 47 

Pineapple Pudding k la royale 48 

Orange Pudding k la maltaise 48 

Pudduig de Savoie k L'orange 49 

ChestBut Pudding k la doupnine 49 

Pudding a la Girot 50 

Chocolate Pudding a la HollandaJse 50 

Pudding a la reine 51 

Pudding a L'allemande 51 

Strawberrv- Pudding 52 

Imperial Pudding 52 

Suedoise of Apples 53 

Suedoise of Pears , 54 

Timbale de pj^he a la oond^ 54 

Timbale de riz d la napolitaine 55 

Pear Timbale 55 

Timbale k la sicilienne 55 

Timbale of Mixed Fruit 56 

Ch<2colate Plombi^re 56 

Orimge Plombidre 56 

Rum Plombi^re 56 

Plombi^re of Maraschino Ciuugoa 57 

Pistache Plombidre 57 

Pistasche Plombi^re 67 

Plombiere aux Caf6 57 

Tea Plombiere 57 

Peach Plombiere, » 57 



296 DESSERTS AND SALADS, 



Vanilla Flombidre 57 

Strawberry Plombidre 68 

Pinei^ple Plombidre 58 

FBOZBN FUDDDTOS. 

Frozen Strawberry Pudding 6b 

Rich Ice Cream Pudding 59 

Pudding & la PQckier-Muskau 59 

Ice Pudding & la Prince PQckler 69 

Chocolate Ice Cream Pudding 59 

Bombe & la Altenbeig 60 

Bombe li la paridenne 60 

Pineapple Cream for Bombe &la parisienne 60 

Ice Pudding with Pumpernickel 61 

Ice Pudding with Ahnonds 61 

Frozen Puddings & la Montmor»icy 61 

Pudding Qlac6 & la Metteraich 63 

Pudding & la Duchesee de Berry 63 

Pudding Qlace & la allemande 63 

Frozen rudding & la Richelieu 63 

Frozen Chestnut Pudding 64 

Frozen Apple Pudding 64 

Mousse & L'ananas 65 

Mousse & la vanille 65 

Mousse d Korange 65 

Mousse au chocolat 65 

Mousse au mainflkino. . • « . • .... 66 



PAINS DB FBurre. 

Pain of Stnwbeniei 66 

Pain d'ananas 66 

Pain d'ananas & la parisienne 66 

Pain de p^hes 67 

Pain & la Victoria 67 

Pain de p^hes fk la Richelieu 67 

Pain de p^hes & la cond6 68 

Pain de pommes A la ooiid6 1 1 1 • t 68 

ICE GBEAICS. 

Directions for Making Ice Cream 69 

Ice Cream (large quantity) 70 

Fine VaniUa Ice Cream 70 

Custard Ice Cream 70 

Plain Ice Cream 70 

Plain Ice Cream (another way) 70 

Pistachio Ice Cream 71 

Maraschino Ice Cream 71 

Caramd Ice Cream 71 

Tea Ice Cream 71 

Coffee Ice Cream, Na 1 71 

Coffee Ice Cream, Na 3 73 



CONTENTS. 297 

WAOU 

Ice Cream, Simple 72 

Plain Chooolate Ice Cream 73 

Nut Ice Cream 72 

Fine Chocolate Ice Cream 72 

Strawberry Ice Cream 78 

How to liake Ice Cream without a Freezer 78 

Vanilla Ice Cream, No. 1 78 

Vanilla Ice Cream, No. 2 78 

Fruit Ice Cream 74 

Fruit Ice 74 

Cold Sugar Syrup for Fruit Ice 74 

Strawberry Ice 74 

Pineapple Ice 75 

Tutti Kutti Ice 75 

Peach Ice 75 

Melon Ice 76 

Orange Ice ^ 75 

Lemon Ice 75 



Champagne Sorbet 76 

Pineapple Sorbet 76 

Strawberry Sherbet 76 

Orange Granite 76 

Spongada aux pdches 76 

Spongada au chocolat 77 

Spongada au Caf6 77 

Spongada au marasqiun 77 

Oiweat of Almond Milk 77 

The polonaise 77 

Iced Tea 78 

Iced Coffee 78 

Bread Crumbs 78 

How to Prepare a Pudding Form 78 

BOILED AND BAITBD FUDDINGHS. 

Plimi Pudding 79 

English Plum Pudding 79 

Biscuit Pudding 80 

Cottage Pudding (baked) 80 

Cottage Pudding (boiled) 80 

Cottage Apple Puading 81 

Batter Fruit Pudding 81 

Prince R^;ent Puddmg. 81 

Layer Puading (Cerman style) 81 

Portugal PudcOing 82 

h)silanti Pudding 82 

Fine Cherry Pudding 82 

Cherry Pudding of Preserved Cherries. 88 

Cherry Batter Pudding 88 

Plain Suet Puddhig 84 



298 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

Suet PiiddliigwUh Apples 84 

BiackberryPiiddiog 84 

Chernr SuBt Pudding 85 

Suet Pudding wi^^ttte 85 

Suet Padding with BaidiM 85 

Suet Fruit Pudding 85 

Marrow Pudding 85 

Fig Pudding 8« 

Apple Pud^Bng (baked) 86 

Pinei4iple Pudding or 8oufl6e 86 

Almond Sponge Podding 87 

Nut Pudding ; 87 

Uncle Tom'B Pudding. 88 

Plain German flour Pudding 88 

The Queen of Puddings with Strawbenies 88 

Indian Pudding (boiled) 88 

Indian Puddins (baked) 89 

Qraham Flour Pudding 80 

Madeira Pudding 89 

Almond Pudding 90 

BoUed Bread Puddhig 90 

Zwieback PuddingTNo. 1 90 

Cabinet Pudding 91 

Lemon Pudding (baked) 91 

Zwieback PudSng, No. 2 91 

Pumpernickel Pudding 91 

Vienna Pudding 92 

Chocolate PuddinjI 92 

Apple Pudding with Almonds / 92 

Nudel Pudding 98 

Potato Pudding 98 

BBBAD Ain> AFPU FUDDXirGfl. 

Plain Bread Pudding, No. 1 94 

Plain Bread Pudding (baked), No. 2 94 

Bird's Nest Pudding 94 

Bread Pudding (boSfed) 95 

Bread Frui t Pudding 96 

Bread Sponge Puddmg 96 

Hanoverian Pudding 96 

Huckleberry Pudding (German style) 97 

Rye Bread Fudding 97 

Apple Pudding (German art) 97 

English Apple Pudding 98 

Apple Pudding (boiled) 98 

Apple Bread Pudding (German art) 98 

Bread Pudding with Apples 99 

Apple Rice Pudding (German art) i)9 

Apple Pudding a Tallemande t)9 

OldFaBhioned Apple Pudding 100 

Roly-Poly 100 

Boly-Poly Tutti Frutti 101 



r" 



CONTENTS. 299 

80T7FLEE8, PANCAKES, OMELETS AND FBTFTEBS. 



Plain Soufl6e 101 

Almond Soufl6e 103 

Lemon Souflee 102 

Vanilla Souflee 103 

Orange Souflee 108 

Chocolate Soufl6e 108 

Macaioon Soufl^ 108 

Apple Souflee, No. 1 108 

Apple Souflee, No. 2 104 

Apple Souflee, No. 8 104 

Apple Souflee, No. 4 104 

Pmeapple Souflee 105 

Rhubarb Souflee 1 05 

Cherry Souflee 106 

GooBeoeny Souflee 106 

Raspberry Soufl6e, 106 

Cherry Omelets * 106 

Fruit JPancakes 106 

Huckleberry Pancakes 106 

Strawberry' Pancakes 107 

Qierry Pancakes 107 

Pancc^es with Currants and Raspberries 108 

Plain German Pancakes. ^ 106 

Lemon Pancakes 106 

Peach Pancakes 108 

Apple Pancakes 106 

Apple Fritters 1 09 

Cherry Fritters 109 

Orange Fritters 109 

Rice Fritters , 110 

Oocoanut Fritters 110 

Currant Fritters 110 

Walnut Fritters 110 

Omelette Soufl6e & la TaniUe Ill 

Omelette Souflee Confitures HI 

Omelette Souflee with Chocolate Ill 

Omelette Souflee with Cocoanut Ill 

Rum or Maraschino Souflee Ill 

Vienna Souflee 112 

Peach Souflee 112 

Apricot Souflee 112 

Farina Souflee (Vienna art) 112 

Farina Souflee (Italian art) 118 

Farina Souflee 113 

Strawberry Soufl6e 113 

Chestnut Soufl6e 118 

Beignet Souflee 114 

Potato Soufl6e 114 

Vanilla Koch 114 

Cream Koch (boiled) 115 

Vudel Souflee 115 



800 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 



lliOHimL Sonilta ii5 

ZwiebaokKoch 115 

Almond Koch witii Snow Sauoe 116 

Plain Koch with Strawberry Ghandeaa 116 

Apple Koch, Na 1 117 

Af^eKoch, No. 2 117 

Apple Koch with AlmoodB and BaiaiiiB • 117 

Jelly Koch 117 

Cream Koch 118 

Cream Koch with Sponge GBke 118 

Almond Koch • • • • • . • 118 

NudelKoch. 118 

Nudel Koch (boiled) 118 

Nut Koch, No. 1 119 

Nut Koch. No, 2 11» 

Rice Koch 119 

Vanilla Almond Koch 120 

Koch with Orange Chaudean 120 

Orange Chaudeau 120 

Koch with Nut Cream 120 

Koch with Chocolate Begoai 121 

BeignetB with Fruit 121 

BeignetB with Zwieback 122 

Poor Knight (Arme Ritter) 122 

Apple BeignetB • • 122 

Poveison • ^ 122 

Pov eison of Pineapple 128 

BeignetB & la Mane-Louise 128 

BeignetBde cr6me d lafran^aise 128 

Peach BeignetB 128 

Batter for BeignetB 124 

Pineapple BeignetB 124 

BeignetB of Nudels 124 

BeignetB & la polonaise 124 

PannequetB & la royale 125 

PannequetB & la vimille 125 

PannequetB meringues 125 

Plain Omelet 126 

Rum Omelet • • 126 

Strawberry Omelet 126 

Huckleberry Omelet 127 

Orange Omelet 127 

Jelly Omelet 127 

Omelette & la franQaise ,.127 



'• 



Charlotte of Apples, No. 1 '. 127 

Charlotte of Apples, Na 2 12b 

Charlotte of Peaches , .128 

Charlotte of Cherries 128 

Charlotte of Currants -. . . .129 

Charlotte of Pineapple 129 



etUTTEKTS. 301 



Charlotte & la polonaiBa 1^ 

Charlotte Busse, Na 1 180 

Charlotte Busse, No. 3 180 

Charlotte & la ruase. 180 

Charlotte k la russe witii Preserved or Stewed Pears 181 

Snow Eggs 181 

BICE FUDDZNGS AND DISHES MADE OF BICE FOB 

DESSERT. 

To Fxepare Rice Flotur 181 

Rice BeignetB .... 1 82 

Rice Pears 132 

Rice BeignetB with Chocolate 182 

Rice Boiled with Raisins 132 

Rice Coteletten 188 

Rice 4 la Creole 188 

Lemon Rice. ., 188 

Rice & la franQaise 184 

Rice Cherry 184 

Poor Man's Rice Pudding 184 

Rice Custard Pudding 184 

Rice Pudding (minutatim) 185 

Rice SnowbaBs 185 

Cold Rice Flour,Pudding 185 

RiceSoufl6e 186 

Rice Flour Pudding (colored) 136 

Rose Rice Pudding 187 

Cold Rice Pudding with Almonds 187 

Rice Snowballs with Apples 187 

Rice Kalte Schale with Wine 188 

Rice Radetzky 188 

Rice with Strawberries • 188 

Rice with Apples • 188 

Rice with Mannalade 189 

Rice Dressed with Sujgar and Cinnamon 189 

Fine Rice Pudding with Oranges • 189 

Fried Rice 140 

Rice Pudding (baked) 140 

Boiled Rice Pudding 140 

Rice Flour Pudding .141 

Rice Flour Pudding (baked) 141 

Rice Pudding (baked) 142 

Rice Pudding with Peaches 1 42 

Rice Pudding & la Palerino 142 

Rice & la MSte 148 

Rice Pudding^ la Wellington ^ 148 

Rice Pudding with Pineapple 144 

Rice Pudding with Apples 144 

Rice Pudding with Cftierries 145 

Rice Pudding witb Almonds 146 

Lemon Rice Pudding .145 

Rice Scallop 140 



302 DB8S6RTS AND SALADS. 



Ooam of RiM Flour 140 

BioeKalteSchale with Cream 140 

Rioe JeUy 140 

Apples with Rioe Border 147 

Rtoe Cream 147 

Rice Cream with Chocolate 147 

Rice Cream with Fmit 140 

Rice Croauettee 140 

Brioche Dough • . . • 140 

Rice Brioche 149 

Poveiaon with PruneB 149 

CroQuetteBof Niidels 160 

Apple Croquettes • . .160 

Nudels with JeUy 160 

Apple ScaU<H> 160 

KudelScaUpp ..Ml 

COLD FUDDnrOS MADB WTCHIOUL 

Goooannt Custard Pudding, No. 1 ...ISl 

Coooanut Custard Pudding, No. 2 158 

Pudding fk la Princess 15d 

Cold Sponge Pudding 15d 

Chocolate Pudding 168 

Sago Pudding 168 

Sago Puddmg with Almonds 168 

Sago Pudding (Allemande) 168 

Sago Meringue with Apples 164 

Sago Cream 164 

RotheGrtttze 164 

Milk Pudding 165 

Fruit CuB^d Pudding : 155 

Macaroon Meringue 165 

Lemon Custard Pudding ; 165 

Cornstarch Pudding 166 

Cornstarch Meringue 166 

Armor Pudding 166 

Red Cream Pudding 167 

Floating Island ' 167 

Banana Float 1 67 

Peach Float 167 

Lemon Custard 167 

Lemon Cream Pudding 168 

Custard Bread Pudding 168 

Custard 168 

Apple Custard 169 

Pmeapple Custard 169 

Strawberry Custard 169 

Peach Custard 169 

Chocolate Fruit Custard : 169 

Fruit Custard with Cake 160 

Tutti Frutti Custard 160 



CONTENTS. 808 



A pple Costard Padding ......; 1 60 

Peach Meringae 160 

Tipsy Parson 161 

Russian Cream Pudding 161 

Tapioca Pudding 161 

Tapioca Meringue 161 

Tapioca Pudding (economical) 162 

Tapioca Pudding with Lemon Sauce 163 

Tapioca Puddi^g with Apples 162 

Apple Tapioca Ftidding 168 

Farina Custard Pudding 168 

Ilose Pudding 168 

Sultana Pudding 168 

Farina Melusine with Apples 164 

Farina Beimets 164 

Farina PucUiing without Eggs 164 

Fanna Koch with Chocolate : 165 

Farina Soufl^ with Almonds and Raisins 165 

Farina Pudding with Almonds 165 

Fine Farina Pudding (boiled) 165 

Farina Soufl6e 166 

Farina Mush 166 

Farina Pudding (cold). • 166 

Fine Farina Pudaing with Vanilla Sauce 167 

Figaro Pudding 167 

Apples au beurre 167 

Apple Meringue 168 

Apples with Whipped Cream 168 

Piches & la coadh 168 

Apricots a la parisienne 169 

Pineapple CroiUes 169 

Cherry CroQtes 170 

Apples in Jelly, No. 1 170 

Apples in Jelly, No. 2 170 

Apples with Custard 170 

Apples with Currant JeUy 171 

Steamed Apples 171 

Baked Apples, No. 1 172 

Baked Apples, No. 2 172 

Baked Apples and Coooanut 172 

Pound Sweets (baked) 1 78 

Pound Sweets m Syrup 178 

Apples Baked with Jelly 1 78 

Apple k la Neige 178 

Apple Sauce 174 

Apple Sauce (economical) 174 

Apples Steweid with Lenions 174 

Apples Stewed Whole with Curmnts 174 

Stewed Dried Apples 176 

Stewed Elvaporated Apples 175 

Peaches Stewed Whole 175 

Stewed Dried Peaches 175 

Stewed Gbeixifis 175 



304 DB88SRTS AND SALADS. 

Stewed Qninooo. •■••••••••• • 175 

Stewed Dried Apriooto 176 

Baked Pea» 176 

Stewed Pea» ♦. 176 

Stewed Dried PeaxB 176 

Stewed Dried PnmeB 176 

PronelleB 177 

Stewed Cranberries 177 

Stewed Hucklebenries 177 

Stewed Rhubarb 1 77 

Stewed Bhubarb with Eggs 178 

Compote of GUxMebeniea 178 

Compote of Strawberries 178 

Compote of Cherries 178 

Compote of Raspberries 178 

Compote of Oreengages (or large Egg Plums) 179 

Compote of Plums 179 

Compote of Oranges l79 

Compote of Prunes 179 

Compote of Raisins 179 

Compote of Dates 180 

Compote de Ifarrons 180 

Compote Chaude de Marrons 180 

Compote of Pineai^e 180 

Compote of Quinces 180 

Compote of Peaches 181 

Compote of Apricots 181 

Compote of Pears 181 

Compote de Melons : 181 

Compote of Watermelon 182 

Compote of Apples 182 

Compote de SMli^ ..182 





Directions for Making Pies 188 

Pie Crust, Quick and Good 184 

Rich Pie Crust 186 

Fine Pie Crust 185 

FamihrPie Crust 186 

Fine Paste for Meat Pies, Patties and Baked Apple Dumplings 186 

Puff Paste 187 

Short Paste ^Qrber TeigX Gennan art 188 

Neapolitan Paste 188 

Florentinian Pftste 189 

Almond Paste 189 

Boiled Paste (P&t6dchoux) v 189 

Nudels 189 

Mince Pie 190 

MockMincePie 191 

Apple Pie, No. 1 191 

Apple Pie, Na 2 191 

ApplePfe^NaS 19S 



CONTENTS. 305 

Apple atron Pie • 1»3 

Apple Meringue Pie 192 

Dned ApplePie 1 93 

Tutti Fnitti Pie 1 93 

Cherry Pie 1 93 

Banana Pie 194 

Pineapple Pie 194 

Pineapple Pie witii Meringue 194 

Prune Pie 195 

Peach Pie 195 

Peach Meringue Pie 195 

Peach Mountain Pie 195 

Phim Pie 196 

Cranberry Pie 1 96 

GooeebeiTy Pie 196 

Blackberry Pie 196 

Huckleberry Pie 196 

Currant Pie 196 

Rhubarb CufttardPie 197 

Rhubarb Pie 1 97 

Rhubarb Meringue Pie 197 

Sweet Potato Pie : 197 

Pumpkin Pie 1 97 

Custard Pie 198 

Cocoanut Pie 198 

Lemon Cocoanut Pie 199 

Chocolate Cream Pie 199 

Vanilla Cream Pie 199 

Orange Cream Pie 200 

Lemon Cream Pie ^ ; 200 

Fine Lemon Pie with an Upper Crust 201 

Lemon Pie (plain) 201 

Lemon Menngue Pie 201 

D' Artois (or Ke of Marmalade) 202 

AUnumettes 202 

Jelly TartB 202 

Tarts 208 

Peach Taris 203 

Apple TartB 203 

Rice TartB 203 

Tartelettee of Cherries 204 

Tartelettes of Peaches, etc 204 

Tartelettee d'apricots ^ 204 

Tartelettes of Peaches, etc 205 

Tartelettes of Strawberries 206 

neurons of Puflf Paste 205 

Fanchonnettes de crSme : 205 

D*Artois Meringues 206 

Condes 206 

Small Royal Cakes 206 

P4te & choux 206 

Chocolate Eclaiis 207 

Canapes 207 



306 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 



OumelooB 207 

Vol-Mi-Teut (an entpfie) 907 

Vol-Miveut with Strawberries and Whipped Cream 906 

Vol-au-veut with CoTTantB and Raspberries 906 

Vol-au-veut with Peaches and Cream. .906 

Neapolitan Breads 909 

Viennoises 909 

Ahnond Tartelettes 909 

Paites d'amour 900 

Neapolitans 910 

D'Artois Grilles ,.910 

Cream TartB, 910 

Fine Pineapple Tarts. 911 

Gooseberry Tarta 911 

Grape Tarts 911 

Cranberry Tarts 911 

Fanchonnettes de pommes 911 

Darioles & la vanille 919 

Flau de fruits printaniers \ 919 

Flau de Cerises fk la cr§me 918 

Flau de frangipane 918 

Flau de pommes fk I'anglaise 918 

Flau de pommes 918 

Flau d'apricotB & La cr^me meringue 914 

Flau de p^ches. No. 1 214 

Flau de pdches, Na 9 \... 214 

STBUDBIh 8TBAWBBBBY 8HOBTOAB38, BABAt 8OX1BIZ1, 
BBIOCHB* 8AVABIN AND DAMPFNUDSUT. 

RioeStnidel 218 

Small Rice Stnidels 916 

Rice Strudel wi th JeUy 916 

Farina Strudel 917 

Farina Strudel with Cocoanut 917 

Citron Strudel 917 

Lemon Strudel 917 

Almond Strudel 918 

Chocolate Almond Strudel 918 

Chocolate Cream Strudel 218 

Apple Strudel 918 

Cherry Strudel 919 

Plum Strudel 219 

Plain Strawberry Shortcake 919 

Strawberry Shortcake, No. 1 990 

Strawberry Shortcake, No. 2 990 

Peach Shortcake , 990 

Vienna BrCselcake 990 

Brioche Cake 991 

Small Brioche 291 

Baba 881 

SaTarin Cake 898 



CONTENTS. 307 

PAAI 

Soleil '. 1 228 

Compile , 224 

Damp Nudels 224 

FBIJIT DXTMPLnras. 

Baked Apple DumplingB, No. 1 225 

Baked Apple Dumplings, No. 2 22»'5 

Baked Apple Dumplings, No. 3 226 

Baked Apple Dumplings with Baking Powder 226 

Apple Dumplings (oain-Marie) 227 

Steamed Apple Dumplings 227 

Boiled Apple Dumplings, No. 1 227 

Boiled Apple Dumplings, No. 2 228 

Lemon Dumplings 228 

Orange Dumplings 228 

Fruit Dumplings 229 

Strawberry Dumplings 229 

Strawberry Dumplings (another way) J^O 

Fine Fruit Dumplmgs 230 

Plain Suet Dumplings 230 

Plain Dumplings with Stewed Apples 231 

Apple Dumph'nga with J^ce 231 



Plain Cake 281 

Marble Cake 282 

Nut Cake 282 

Citron Cake 282 

Lady Cake 283 

Dutchess Cake 288 

Fruitcake 288 

Rich Fruitcake 288 

Orange Layer Cake 284 

Lemon Layer Cake .235 

Chocolate Layer Cake 285 

Cliocolate Cream Cake 236 

Cocoanut Layer Cake 236 

Lemon Cream Cake 236 

Vanilla Cream Cake 237 

Jelly Cake, No. 1 • 237 

Jelly Cake, No. 2 237 

Jelly Cake, No. 3 238 

Wine Glazed Cake 238 

Wine Glazed Cream Cake 238 

Pineapple Cake 239 

Wild I&e Cake 289 

Biscuit au beurre 240 

Fine Sponge Cake 241 

Delicate ^onge Cake ^ . . -241 

Marguerites 242 

Macaroons 242 



298 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

w*am 

Suet Pudding wUhAppte 84 

Blackbeny Padding 84 

Cherrr Suet Puddiiur 85 

Suet Pudding with Nute 85 

Suet Padding with BaiflinB 85 

Suet Fruit Pudding 85 

Marrow Pudding 85 

FigPuddinff 86 

Amde Puddbu: (baked) 86 

Pineapple Pudding or 8oafl6e 86 

Almond Sponge Pudding 87 

NutPudduig 87 

Uncle Tom's Pudding. 88 

Plain German Flour Tudding 88 

The Queen of Puddings with Strawberries 88 

Indian Pudding (boiled) 88 

Indian Puddin^(baked) 89 

Qraham Flour iSidding 80 

Madeira Pudding 89 

Almond Pudding 90 

Boiled Bread Pudding 00 

Zwieback Pudding, No. 1. 90 

Cabinet Pudding 91 

Lemon Pudding (baked) 91 

Zwieback Pudding, No. 2 91 

Pumpernickel Pudding 91 

Vienna Pudding 92 

Chocolate Paddin|^ 93 

Apple Pudding with Almonds ^ 93 

Nudel Pudding 98 

Potato Pudding 93 

BBBAD Ain> AFPU FUDDXirOS. 

Plain Bread Pudding, No. 1 94 

Plain Bread Pudding (baked), No. 2 94 

Bird's Nest Pudding 94 

Bread Pudding (boiled) 95 

Bread Fruit Pudding 96 

Bread Sponge Puddmg 96 

HojiOTerian Pudding 96 

Huckleberry Pudding (Overman style) 97 

Rye Bread Pudding 97 

Apple Pudding (German art) 97 

English Apple Pudding 98 

Apple PuddiM (boiled) 98 

Apple Bread Pudding (German art) 98 

Bread Pudding with Apples 09 

Apple Rice Pudding (German art) U9 

Apple Pudding 4 rallemande 99 

Ofd-Fashioned Apple Pudding 100 

Roly-Poly 100 

Bdy-Poly Tutti Frutti 101 



CONTENTS. 309 

WAom 

Salad of Oyster Plant 254 

Asparagus Salad. 255 

Carrot Salad 255 

Carrot Salad with Asparagus 255 

Carrot Salad with Onions ,' 255 

Carrot Salad with Peas 256 

Celery Root Salad 256 

White Celery Salad 256 

Cabbage Salad 256 

Salad of Red Cabbage 256 

Hot Slaw 256 

Radish Salad 257 

White Bean Salad ,..257 

String Bean Salad 257 

Crab Salad 258 

Pike Salad 258 

Tomato and Potato Salad 258 

Tomato Salad with Lettuce 258 

Tomato Salad 259 

Tomato Salad with Mayonaise 259 

Tomato and Cucumber Salad 259 

Tomato Pepper Salad 259 

Tomato Farce (4 la Mayonaise) 260 

Potato Salad 260 

Potato Salad (another way) 260 

Potato Salad without Oil 261 

Potato Salad without Onions 261 

Fine Potato Salad 261 

Salad Endive 261 

Beet and Cabbage Salad 261 

Vegetable Salad 262 

Beet and Potato Salad 262 

Green Pepper Salad 262 

Tripe Salad ....262 

Herring Salad 263 

Salad AL'italienne 263 

Chicken Salad 268 

How to Boil Lobster 264 

LobsterSalad 264 

Sahnon Salad 264 

Shrimp Salad 265 

How to Boil Shrimp 265 

Halibut Salad 265 

Oyster Salad 266 

C^ter and Chicken Salad 266 

Tomato Jelly 266 

Tomato JeUy Salad 266 

Egg Salad 267 

E^gs with Mayonaise 267 

Omon Salad 267 

Alligator Pear Salad 267 

Jerusalem Artichoke Salad 267 

Sour JeUy (Aspic) 268 



310 DESSERTS AND SALADS. 

Gamkhing 969 

Horaeradiah for QamiBhiDg. 269 

Cocoanut for Qamiahing Salads 969 

ICES AUD GlaAZBS. 

How to Ufle Icing / 269 

White Icing 370 

aear Icing 370 

White Icin^ with Wine or liquor 270 

Aimond Icing 271 

Fruit Icing 271 

Sugar Olaze 271 

Maraschino Glaze 271 

Orange Glaze 272 

Lemon Glaze 272 

Coffee G laze 272 

Wine Glaze 272 

Boiled Cinnamon Glaze 272 

Chocolate Glaze 272 

Cinnamon Glaze 272 

CK>ld Sugar Glaze 272 

BoUed Chocolate Glaze , 272 

Transparent Glaze 278 

Rose Glaze 278 

Spinning Sugar 278 

Boiling Sugar 274 



APPENDIX. 



CSheese Torte 277 

Pistachio Torte 277 

Kugelhupf or Bunt Euchen 278 

Jelly Roll 278 

Election Cake 279 

Sponge Cake 279 

Apple Ringlets 279 

Baking-Powder Rolls 280 

Waffles 380 

Gateau i la Weckesser 280 

Lady Cake 281 

Denmark Cake 281 

StuUen with Baking Powder 281 

Wine Baba .281 

Bunt Euchen with Baking Powder. 282 



CONTENTS. 811 

WAjam 

Bmelines 282 

Band Wafers 282 

Cream 8 288 

Aniseed Wafers 288 

Cinnamon Sticks 288 

Meringae Shells 288 

Kisses 288 

Banana Cake 284 

Neapolitan Cake 284 

One-Egg Cake 285 

Spice Cake , 285 

Molasses Cake 285 

Gingerbread 286 

Ginger Snaps 286 

Com Bread 286 

xCream Cakes Glass^ 290 



•V/i:^v^ 



Mignon Cream 286 

MaTbom Cream 286 

Banana Ice Cream 287 

Frozen Caramel Cream 287 

Ice Cream without Milk or Cream 287 

Lemon Sherbet 287 

Strawberry Sherbet : 287 

Coffee Frappe 287 

Coffee Sorbet 287 

CnrSTABB. 

Caramel Custard 288 

Cocoanut Caramel 288 

Caramel Charlotte 288 

Strawberry Charlotte 289 

SATTOSa 

Bismarck Sauce 289 

Transparent Sauce 289 

Orange Sauce 289 

Cream Sauce 289 

Fruit Sauce 290 

Raspberry Sauce 290 



(•) 



I 

I 

4 
I 
I 



1 /■ 7 r 



Ci 



/<:/ 





i 



