
.,:....:xA^..::i 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 
^^\isS 

I hap.__.L__ Copyrighl No 

8helL.B_g.J5 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



Advertising Supplement 



FLEISCHMANN'S 

VEGETABLE 1#C A CT 
COMPRESSED | t A U I 

HAS NO EQUAL. 



Advertising Supplement 



D Wight's Cow Brand 

SODA- 




LOW 
PRICE. 



ESTABLISHED 



To avoid disappointment, insist upon having COW BRAND 
in original packages, and don't be put off with cheap, inferior 
substitutions. John -r^jght & Co> Ne „ y ork 

s.o w Send address for Cow Brand Cook Book -Free 



Advertising Supplement 



"Gold Medal" 
Flour^^ 

IS CONSIDERED THE 
BEST BAKER'S FLOUR 



I 



g*@&g 







4 ' Gold Medal ' ' Flour is now used by more Bakers than any other brand 
and i» recognized as the Standard of Strength and Uniformity 

WASHBURN CROSBY COMPANY, 

MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. 



Advertising Supplement 



Buy 



^ Pillsbury's 
** Best Flour 



♦-+—♦-♦ ♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦> 




AND YOU ARE SURE TO HAVE THE BEST. 
NEVER VARIES IN STRENGTH OR QUALITY. 



The best bakers always indorse 
" Pillsbury's Best " as the BEST 

and most PERFECT PATENT FLOUR 

in the world. 

«^* e^* e^* 

MANUFACTURED BY THE 



PILLSBURY-WASHBURN MILLING CO. 

MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. 



Advertising Supplement 



THE 



Midclleby Portable Brick Oven 




The Standard Oven in New York, Boston and Chicago. 
OVER 1000 NOW IN USE. 

Our business is fast and steadily growing. Why? Because the Middleby 
Portable Tile Oven is now well known by a majority of Bakers over the country 
The practical, successful men now know that when they purchase one of our 
ovens, they secure a first-class Brick oven and one that can b© moved . 

That's what the Middleby is, a Brick Oven that can be moved.' 

If you intend going into business you cannot afford to build an oven on another 
man's property. Buy a Middleby. You will then own a Brick Oven 
that is absolutely your own property. YOU Can move it whenever 
you please. Let us seu d you a catalogue or come and see us. 

MIDDLEBY OVEN MFG. CO., 

New York Office, Wool Exchange Building, 

Cor. West Broadway and Beach St. 
Chicago Office, 62 West Van Buren St. 
Boston Office, 201 State St. 



A dver Using Supplemen. 



When a Baker.,, 
Wants an Oven 



He wants one that will bake bread of every kind, 
and pastry of every kind, just right. 

He wants that oven to save all the time, fuel, room and 
trouble possible, 

The Hubbard Portable Oven is an Oven like that. 



HUBBARD PORTABLE OVENS 

Bake anywhere — Bake even- 
ly on all shelves — Can be 
fired while baking — Use any 
fuel — No fumes — No hotter 
in a room than a brick oven 
— Practically Are-proof — Use 
on any floor — Easily taken 
down or set up — Take only 
one-third the room of a brick 
oven — Bake bread, cake or 
pastry equal to brick oven — 
Icoapstoneor Tile surface best 
for rye or Vienna bread — 
Don't absorb the moisture — 
Can scale the dough lighter 
— Are good roasters — All 
right for hotels and restau- 
rants — Easily managed — 
Last a long time — Good all 
round oven — Not the tin box 

kind— Thoroughly tested — Satisfactory — Bakers don't go back to bricK ovens when 

they've once tried the Hubbard Portable Oven. 

SHIPMENTS F.O.S NEW YORK OR CHICAGO. 

SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE. 

HUBBARD PORTABLE OVEN CO., 




n 



NEW YORK, 
D" FRONT STREET. 



CHICAGO, 
122 "A" MICHIGAN ST. 



Advertising Supplement 



QUAKER 
ICING 



RO WDER 



Egg Nutrine 

is the result of careful experi- 
menting with the nutricious 
properties of the fresh eggs for 
all baking purposes. Replaces 
fresh eggs at a cost of less than 
6 cents per dozen. 



Icil 



Z~mr± much cheaper than 
II1W9 egg white. Always 

= uniform. 




costs less than one-half the 
price of egg whites when 
cheapest, and makes finest 
icing for all cakes and for 
ornamenting, 




Marshmallow Iciline 



A new preparation for making perfect marshmallow filling 
without glue, gelatine or gum. Beat up as light as 
meringue. 



SEND FOR SAMPLES. 



WE FURNISH SPECIAL RECIPES. 



MANUFACTURED ONLY BY 

FRENCH MANUFACTURING CO., 

PHILADELPHIA, PA. 
Chicago Officers I 3 Fairbank Building. 



Advertising Supplement 



ESTABLISHED 1830. ESTABLISHED 1830 

JAMES Y. WATKINS * SON 

MANUFACTURER OF 

Bakers' and Confectioners' Utensils, 

OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. 

Hotel and Restaurant Kitchen Ware. 

Are you us'ng our Seam- 
less Steel Cruller Settle. 
If not, write to us, for par- 
ticulars, prices, etc. 




Send for our New 
Illustrated Catalogue. 




1 6 and 1 8 Catharine St. flgyy York 
I I East Broadway 



fit 



EXCELSIOR" 
BRAND 



PIE FILLINGS 



ARE THE BEST. 

Lemon, Orange, Pineapple, Peach, Strawberry, Etc., Etc. 

i Ask Your Supply House for the »' Excelsior" Brand. 



Wc also mamifacturc the finest MINCEMEAT for Bakers. 

EXCELSIOR MANUFACTURING CO.. 

1=9 Bethune Street, New York. 

H. S. WARE. W. E. JONES. 



Advertising Supplement 



important Bakers 

The quickest and surest way to build up a large and 
permanent trade, is to give your customers sweet, light, 
snowy, white cakes and buiscuits ; every time you sell 
them you advertise your superior goods. The only way 
to make the best the oven can produce is to use 

A FIRST=CLASS 
BAKING POWDER.... 

\OTIIl\G ELSE WILE DO IT. 

K ROUT'S 
BAKING.... 
PO WDER 




4fc 



Is composed of pure, wholesome ingredients, the 

principal of which is Crape Cream of 

Tartar, No baker has ever used 
KROUT'S BAKING POWDER 

except with satisfaction and profit. It is the 
most effective and economical powder in the 
world. 



ALBERT KROUT CO., 

No.36 3 9 flARKET STREET, PHILADELPHIA, PENN. 



Agent for Brooklyn and Long Island 
FRANK KEOGLER'S SON, 34-38 Harrison Avenue, Brooklyn. 



Advertising Supplement 



HENRY HEIDE'S 



ONLY GENUINE 



ALMOND PASTE, 

For Bakers 

and 
Confectioners 

FOR OVER 24 YEARS ON Tl E HARKET. 





L i MaiLi^ |a 



Ife OLD 
„, WAY 

tun. ! I r i 



j Tfrsf 1 ill , Jt "ilffl 




KSJit 



■ 



e ■ "'■!; 



a^ M 



NEW WAY 



aTw 




iffllg 






>»SK FOR 



HENRY HEIDE'S 

ORIGINAL ALMOND PASTE FOR MACAROONS, 

4Z_M/>!iyS RELIABLE, PURE AND FRESH. 



FOR SALE BY 

all Bakers' Supply Houses and Wholesale Grocers. 

MANUFACTURED ONLY BY 

HENRY HEIDE, 84-90 VANDAM ST. 

NEW YORK. 



Advertising Supplement 



Bakers' 
Supplies 

We are large jobbers and 
manufacturers of all sup- 




are in a position to quote 
lowest prices on every ar- 
ticle used by a baker. We 
also manufacture a full 
line of bakers' tools. Our 
catalogue will be sent for 
the asking. 



Mussgiller & Mangels, | 

329 Washington St., I 



New York. 



— * 



S 1 *************** ******** -.-A* 

| 

■fc 

* 

* 

i 

¥ 
¥ 

¥^ 

¥ 

¥ 



PANS 



We desire to call the par- 
ticular attention of bakers to 
our facilities for manufac- 
turing Pans of every descrip- 
tion used by bakers. We 
are always pleased to give 
estimates and guarantee per- 
fect work. 



Mussgiller & Mangels, 

329 Washington St., 

New York, 



**************** V ********v". <************************** 



Advertising Supplement 



KINGSFORD'S 



Sold all around 
the World. 



The Original 



OSWEGO 



The Standard for over 
Fifty Years. 



S TARCH 



Purest, Best. 



i85i 
LONDON 



HIGHEST AWARDS 

1893 

CHICAGO 



1876 
PHILADELPHIA 



For Food 

Kingsford's Corn Starch 

Forms, with Milk or Beef Tea, a most 

EXCELLENT FOOD 

FOR 

Children and Invalids 

It is a Wholesome Article of Diet 

FOR ALL. 

Send stain p for a FREE COPY of our dainty 
book of over 200 new recipes. 

FOR THE LAUNDRY 



, ♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦» 




♦ ♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦- 



V!»/vitli»il!ii " Cilunv PIaaa " Ctornh Will he found far superior to all other 

Kingsford s oilver bloss otarcn ., r i,, n ,s wonderful si,,,,,,!,;,,,,! 

uniformity. It imparts to tine laces, linens, and muslins a delicacy and lustre simply in- 
comparable. 

Vinft-pfnrrl'c " Dura " Cfarnh is well adapted to economical housekeepers. It 
MlltolUlll lUIB uldlull is a genuine article, absolutely pure, never 

varies in quality, and is free from odor. 

Kingsford's " Laundro " ySt&X^&Zt* "•""""»'■»""»•"«""'■ 



T. KINGSFORD & SON, „,„„«, OSWEGO, N. Y. 



Perfection 



Baking 

A 



BY 



EMIL BRAUN 



General rules and instructions in all branches of American baking. 

In nine parts, each part containing many new theories and 

new ways of composing receipts, and furthering the 

culinary education of the professional 

baker as well as the housekeeper. 



FOURTH EDITION 

•REVISED AND ENLARGED.) 



NEW YORK : 

EMIL BRAUN, 

1899. 




b 



i 



42150 

Copyrighted, 1899. 

BY 

Emil Braun. 




•ECONO OOPY, 



Sa(j. Qj J gig . 



PREFACE. 




no other land has the baking and consumption of bake- 
stuffs grown to such an extent as it has within the past few 
years in this country. Even in the household of the most 
humble workman, as in the mansion of the rich and pros- 
perous merchant, the American cook and housewife is 
generally more praised and esteemed for her good bread, pastry and 
desserts, than for meat cooking. In looking over the numerous cook 
books that are now placed so freely before the public, the inexperi- 
enced can find no way of learning how or why the recipes read as they 
do. Before any success in baking can be expected, the cook, baker 
or housewife must be educated to all the particulars of the materials 
they are about to use. 

It is the main object of this work to show in plain language all 
who are interested how to become successful in baking; the theories 
of how to put together and how to change recipes, when the same 
grades or brands of materials are not on hand. Judgment and com- 
mon sense must be displayed to insure success. Did you ever hear a 
woman say, "I had good luck to-day with my cakes," but 'kla!^ 'the* 
next time, "Oh, I had such bad luck with my baking" ? There it is; 
one day good luck, the next time ashamed'To'show the result of her 
labor, and all the good materials wasted. It is the lack of theoretical 



knowledge about baking that brings the bad luck, and many a pro- 
fessional baker is not able to explain the real cause of the mishap. The 
theories herein laid out plainly before the reader are all the result of 
careful, practical experiments, and are based upon accomplished facts. 
Being confident of the success of my efforts in demonstrating 
some new and practical points to all interested in baking, and wishing 
to prepare delicious desserts, I shall herewith give my recipes in 
several parts, each part treating upon a different branch in the art of 
baking. 




New York City. 



F»A RT I 



Puff Paste, Pies, Tarts, etc. 



Americ.'i/i Puff Paste. 

One pound of butter washed well in ice water and one pound of 
mixed flour; mix together very light, with one ounce of baking 
powder, one egg, one teaspoonful of salt and enough ice water to 
make a smooth paste, same as you make for tea biscuits ; roll out 
once about eighteen inches long and ten inches wide, turn in the ends 
to meet in the middle and double again ; let rest in ice box or cellar 
for an hour, and repeat this until rolled out four times. For tarts 
and patties, roll out one-quarter of an inch in thickness, cut out with 
biscuit cutter, lay on clean cooky tins (not greased), and if time 
allows, let rest awhile in cold place before baking. When ready for 
the oven, dip the top of a small wine glass or biscuit cutter in hot 
water and press in the center of each tart, down to near the bottom 
of the paste; bake in a hot oven. When baked, cut the center all out 
with a sharp pen-knife and they are ready to fill. This paste is very 
valuable for the American cook, so as to be able to make patty shells 
with success, while it takes a great deal more experience to make 
French puff paste. 

Pre n oh Puff Paste. 

Mix stiff one pound of mixed flour (half pastry and half bread 
flour) with one egg, two ounces of butter, one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar or rum, and sufficient ice water. Work well and set to rest in 
ice box half an hour; then press the piece flat towards the edges, place 
in the center fourteen ounces of good dry butter washed well in ice 
water, with all the water and buttermilk squeezed out, and pull the 
edges of the dough over the butter from the four sides. Then you 
can proceed rolling it as in above recipe. If time allows, bake a little 
sample first; if it falls over in the oven, roll it out nn<v or twice more; 
if butter runs out into the pan, let it rest longer on the ice. 



Holland or- Dutch Paste. 

Wash in ice water one pound of butter until smooth. To one 
pound of flour add one-quarter of the butter, one-half teaspoonful 
cream of tartar, one egg, and one teaspoonful salt ; mix all together 
with ice water (about one-half pint) into smooth dough; let rest awhile, 
then roll out in a long strip, break the rest of the butter into small 
pieces the size of a walnut and lay all over the dough, then turn the 
left end one-third over, then the other end over this; roll out carefully, 
one-half inch thick, using no more flour for dusting than is necessary, 
and turn over like American puff paste. Roll five times, and if butter 
is very rich, you can cut short say one ounce to the pound of flour. 

Vienna Tart Paste. 

Chop fine ten ounces of washed butter with one pound of pastry 
flour, six ounces of sugar, one tablespoonful of pie seasoning, then 
mix with three eggs into light paste. This paste is very extensively 
used as crust for the delicious large fruit and cream tarts so common 
in Europe. If convenient, use six yolks of eggs in place of three 
whole eggs, as this makes the paste more smooth. 

Common Pie Paste. 

Mix together, dry, one pound of flour with three-quarters of a 
pound of lard and butter, and one-half teaspoonful of salt, then moisten 
with enough ice water to have it hold together, but do not work any 
more than necessary; and if time allows, let it rest on ice before using. 
That is the secret of a tender pie crust; working it too much makes 
what you so often find — shoe-leather pies. If you want a cheaper 
crust for the bottom, use less shortening. Always wash pies on top 
with milk before baking; this gives them a lively and appetizing color. If 
the oven bakes slow from the top, add a pinch of salt to the milk you 
wash the pies with. 

Prepared Pie Seasoning. 

Not only in large hotels but also in every household a large 
quantity of that delicate flavor, the peel of lemon, is wasted daily. 
How often are lemons cut up, when in a moment's time the rind could 



— 7 — 

be grated and saved for future use, put in a glass jar and occasionally 
sprinkled over with a little sugar and a few drops of water to keep 
moist. In this way you can have lemon flavor free of cost all the 
year around. Two tablespoonfuls of this lemon peel, two cups of 
brown sugar, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of 
allspice, one-half a nutmeg (grated); mix all together and keep in a 
can in a cool place, always ready for use. 

Now to Prepare Pies, 

Pie plates should always be greased with butter, then dusted 
with flour, or what is better, cracker dust; this prevents the pie from 
tasting greasy after standing a day or two. Never have too rich a 
pie crust for the bottom, and always roll out very thin. For apple, 
and fresh fruit pies generally, it is advisable to dust the pie crusts with 
cracker dust before filling with the fruit, as this absorbs the juice of 
the fruit while baking. If fresh fruit pies are to be packed in lunch 
baskets, the following is a very valuable recipe : Mix the berries or 
other fruit, as soon as picked, with sufficient sugar, a little water, and 
put away if possible over night; before using, drain off the juice, and 
cook it, adding three tablespoonfuls of corn starch to every pint of 
juice, then add the fruit, mix, and it is ready for use. This pie will 
cut like jelly. Brown sugar is very good for pies and gives a nice flavor. 

Evaporated and IJried Fruits. 

By following instructions given here you will be surprised at the 
excellent results. Never soak any pie fruit over night. To one quart 
of boiling water add one-half pound of berries, apples or apricots, 
one-half teaspoonful salt, cook ten minutes until swelled up well, add 
three-quarters of a pound of granulated sugar, and one teaspoonful 
butter; cook five minutes longer, then stir into this two ounces or five 
tablespoonfuls of corn starch, dissolved in a little cold water ; stir 
quickly a few moments and set away to cool. This I guarantee to 
make the most delicate pies from any dried fruits. If fruit is very 
tart, like apricots, add a little more sugar ; with apricots you can 
always cook some apples, as apricots are almost too rich; some of the 
ready pie seasoning can be used to advantage in almost all pies. This 
mixture can be made in larger quantities and put away in cans or jars, 
as it keeps well. 



Custard Pies. 

FOR THREE PIES. 

Line deep pie plates very thin with plain paste, fill with custard 
and bake about twenty minutes. For the custard, beat up six eggs 
with four ounces of powdered sugar, one tablespoonful of melted 
butter, one-half teaspoonful salt, add two ounces of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of any extract you wish, and three pints of fresh milk; strain 
all together and bake twenty minutes. This mixture is also fine for 
cup custard. Bake about twenty minutes. To make sure that any 
kind of custard pie is done, stick a knife through the pie, and if you 
can remove it without any custard or milky p.aste sticking to it the 
pie is done. 

L,emon Pie. 

Boil one quart of water with one cup of canned, fresh or dried 
apples, three-quarters of a pound of granulated sugar, until apples 
are soft, then stir into it three ounces (or five tablespoonfuls) of 
dissolved corn starch; remove from the stove and when cool add five 
to six eggs, one-half teaspoonful salt, the juice of three lemons, two 
grated lemon peels, and one tablespoonful butter; strain all through 
a colander and fill into pie dishes lined with plain pie crust. If you 
want French lemon pie, line flat pie dish with American puff paste, 
scallop the edge with your fingers or a knife, fill in the cream and lay 
four bars of the same paste over the top and four more crosswise over 
them. This is the finest lemon pie found in twenty years' practice. 

Pumplcin or Squash Pies. 

FOR THREE PIES. 

Cut up and boil soft one-half of a small pumpkin, strain off water 
well and press the dry meat through a colander. Beat up six eggs 
with six ounces of powdered sugar, one-half teaspoonful salt, one 
tablespoonful ginger, one-half nutmeg; then add the pumpkin, one 
quart of milk, and one tablespoonful of melted butter, strain all 
through colander again, fill in deep pie dishes lined with plain pie 
paste, and bake like custard pie — twenty to thirty minutes. This is 
enough for three large pies. Generally, as soon as pie is up above 
the rim of the plate it is done; if bottom is not quite baked, then set 
on top of hot stove a few seconds to finish bottom. The same rule 
applies to custard pies. 



— 9 — 
Cream Pics. 

FOR TWO PIES. 

Boil one quart of milk with one-half pound of sugar (one cup), 
stir into this quickly, while boiling, four tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
mixed with two or three eggs and one teaspoonful of any extract ; a 
little butter may be added ; you may also use grated lemon or orange 
peel, or two ounces of chocolate as required. Line a fiat pie dish 
with American puff paste, dust well with cracker dust or flour, press 
another same size pie dish on top of the paste and set in the oven ; 
when about half done take top dish off and bake until done ; pour in 
cream and set away to cool. 

Cream. JKIcrinfrue Pie. 

Beat only the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth ; mix into it, 
light, one small cup of sifted powdered sugar ; spread this over the 
cream and dust with a little sugar; brown in oven about three minutes. 

Peuoh Afe 2*177 g'ue. 

EUROPEAN STYLE. 

Skin say six ripe peaches, cut them up into thin slices, mix with 
one cup of powdered sugar and divide on twelve deep saucers ; then 
cover over with meringue, same as for cream meringue pie. If you 
have a canvas bag and tube you can ornament a little on top. Any 
other fresh fruit except berries can be used the same way. 

Russian Spioe Pie. 

Line flat pie dish with common pie crust, and spread thin with 
any kind of jelly or jam. Mix together three-quarters of a pound of 
sifted bread or cake crumbs, three-quarters of a pound of lard, one 
quart molasses, one pint of sour cream or water, one ounce of saleratus, 
one egg, one pint of washed currants, a little chopped citron, a little 
lemon and vanilla extract, and one tablespoonful of cinnamon or pie 
seasoning; mix all together and thicken with enough pastry flour to 
have a soft paste. Fill this on top of the jelly and bake slow; when 
baked, dust with powdered sugar. This pie is very tine when a few 
days old. 



— 10 — 

Minee Meat for Pies. ^ 

Two pounds of apples, chopped fine; one-half pound of washed 
currants; one pound of lean boiled beef, chopped fine; half-pound 
citron and orange peel; two lemons, grated and the juice; one pound 
raisins, stoning them if time allows; one pound of brown sugar; one- 
half nutmeg; two ounces of mixed ground spices; add either brandy, 
wine or cider to taste, and enough of the beef broth to moisten well. 

Freneli JKIadclaine Pie or Tarts. 

Line pie dish or tart mould with American puff paste and spread 
with jelly. Stir together lightly one cup of sugar, one cup of sweet 
almonds pounded very fine, and six yolks or three whole eggs; then 
add two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, three-quarters of a cup of 
pastry flour and one-half teaspoonful of baking powder. If too stiff, 
add a little milk or cream. Fill in the dish, roll out a piece of the 
paste, cut in narrow strips one-quarter of an inch thick, and lay close 
together across the top of pie. Bake by moderate heat for half an 
hour; if it colors too soon on top, cover with a strong, greased paper. 

Rice Pie. 

Line plate same as for custard pie. One cup of rice, boiled very 
soft with one-half teaspoonful of salt; beat lightly four eggs with one- 
half cup of sugar; add the rice, one-half nutmeg, a little lemon or 
cinnamon, one quart of milk or cream, and two tablespoonfuls of 
butter. Press all through a fine colander twice and bake same as 
custard pie. 

Southern Custard or Potato Pie. 

Boil or bake four good potatoes and take the skins off ; beat up 
with five ounces of powdered sugar and five eggs, then add one ounce 
of flour, one and one-half quarts of milk, one-half grated nutmeg, 
one-half teaspoonful salt and one tablespoonful melted butter. Strain 
all through colander, fill in lined pie plates and bake like custard. 
Sweet potatoes or carrots can be used the same way. You may also 
steam the potatoes until mealy but not watery. 



— 11 — 

Rhuhaih Pie. 

Get your rhubarb cleaned and cut in strips one inch long the 
night before and mix well with sufficient sugar. Next morning strain 
off the juice and set on the fire ; when boiling add the rhubarb, boil 
about two minutes, stir two ounces (three good tablespoonfuls) of 
corn starch into it and take off to cool. A little cinnamon improves 
it greatly. Gooseberries are prepared in the same manner. 

European Cherry Pie ( Plamri). 

Line a flat pie dish or layer-cake tin with American puff paste, 
dust well with cracker dust and cover the bottom with one layer of 
stoned cherries and bake half done ; pour over the following creme, 
and put back in oven for five to seven minutes longer. Creme: Four 
egg yolks, three ounces sugar, a little cinnamon, and two ounces of 
flour; mix all together, then add one-half pint of sour cream. 

Imperial Currant Pie and Tarts. 

Line one large flat cake tin with Vienna tart paste, making rim 
extra thick ; fill with following mixture and bake slow : Beat the 
whites of five eggs very stiff, adding six ounces of powdered sugar, a 
little at a time; after the eggs are stiff, add two ounces of chopped 
almonds and half a pint of sour cream; finally add one pint of picked 
red currants. In winter, use a pint can of preserved currants or one 
pound of washed English currants. This is the genuine recipe from 
the German Imperial Court Confectionery, and will repay a hundred- 
fold for the little extra care and trouble required in its preparation. 

Imperial Vanilla Cream Tart*. 

Line a dish with Vienna tart paste, making rim double thickness 
and bake. Beat the whites of four eggs very stiff, adding six ounces 
of sugar, a little at a time, then mix in the four yolks and two table- 
spoonfuls of dissolved gelatine with one tablespoonful of vanilla extract 
or vanilla sugar; pour into the baked pie crusts and set away in ice 
box until wanted. In the place of vanilla any other flavor or rind 
and juice of lemon or orange may be used. 



— 12 — 
Apple Phi in ri Tarts. 

Line flat pic dishes with Vienna tart paste, have side with extra 
thick rim, dust with cracker meal, cut apples in thin slices, lay them 
closely together, covering the paste with one layer, sprinkle with 
sugar, pie seasoning, currants, fine citron and almonds, and bake half 
done; pour over this the same mixture as above. Peaches and plums 
may be used the same way, but no berries. 

French Tartlets. 

Line patty moulds or flat tartlet dishes with American paste, 
dust well with flour and fill with dried beans or split peas; then pour 
out all the beans (saving them for the next time) and fill the shells 
with any jam, jelly or cream. These shells may also be used for 
oyster patties. 

^Metropolitan Cream or *Jelly Tarts. 

Line moulds as above and fill with jelly or cream and bake, then 
make a light meringue, spread over the tarts and put back in oven 
until browned over the top. 

Large I*attics* 

From puff-paste leavings, roll out a sheet one-fourth of an inch 
thick, cut out round the size of dish you wish to serve it on, wash the 
edge a little with water and fill the center with your meat or game; 
roll out another sheet of fresh paste, cover over the meat, lapping 
over the border; cut off sharp and scallop a little. For large patties, 
lay another ring of fresh paste around the border. Wash all well 
with e^, prick a few times with a fork and decorate with small thin 
stars, etc. ; bake at about 370 degrees. 

L,arge rutty Shells. 

Cut out a round bottom layer one-quarter of an inch thick from 
good French paste, lay it on strong pan that will not warp in the 
oven. Now make a ball of fine shavings, cover with thin paper and 
tie together with fine thread to keep it in shape. Set this in the center 



— V6 — 

of the paste and dust well with flour. Then roll out a piece of the 
paste one eighth of an inch in thickness and layover the ball, covering 
it thoroughly and lapping over the border, cut it off sharp on the 
edges, prick with a fork, wash well with egg, decorate with little 
ornaments of different shapes (stars, squares, crescents, etc.) and 
some narrow strips of paste laid crosswise. When baked, cut about 
two inches from the top all around with a sharp knife, remove the 
cover, cut the thread, take out the paper and shavings carefully and 
after cleaning out thoroughly they are ready to fill with fricassee, 
oysters, etc. 

Y'ol-u u-A^en ts. 

These serve the same purpose as patty shells, only they are not 
so hard to make. Roll out a strip of best puff paste one-third of an 
inch thick and cut with a sharp knife one and one-half inches wide, 
long enough to form a ring the size of the dish in which you wish to 
serve it. Care must be taken to avoid touching the sides of any part 
of puff paste after it is cut, and also avoid allowing the waste to run 
down the sides, as this prevents the paste from rising even. In making 
a vol-au-vent, one end is carefully flattened down and washed with 
water, the other end lapped over this and afterwards washed with egg 
and pressed down evenly. The top may be marked crosswise with a 
fork. Extra small ornaments (stars, squares, crescents, etc.) are 
baked separately to decorate the fricassee after it is filled in the ring. 



14 — 



General Rules. 



Apple pies should always have the prepared seasoning. 
Gooseberries are improved by a little cinnamon or meringue. 

Save all your broken crackers; dry them, pound fine and save for 
pies. 

All pie dishes should be greased, and then dusted with cracker 
meal. 

Never use soft butter or lard for pie crust. Always wash butter 
in ice water. 

For baked pot pies (either meat or fruit), use the American Puff 
Paste and prick well. 

Three ounces of sugar are sufficient to every quart of milk for 
custards of any kind. 

Dried apples, cooked soft enough to press through colander, are 
very nice for meringue pies. 

Never use too much flavoring of any kind in baking, especially 
cinnamon or almond extract. 

All fresh fruit should be mixed with sugar before filling in pies. 
A little butter increases the delicacy. 

Good corn starch can be used in a great many ways in pie 
baking, but only the best will give satisfaction. 

Huckleberries and blueberries should always be mixed with some 
apples, either fresh or canned, to increase flavor. 



— 15 — 

Always keep a can of the prepared pie seasoning on hand, as 
this will increase the delicacy of flavor of almost every pie. 

The recipe for American Puff Paste, if made as directed, will be 
worth more than the price of this book to any cook or housewife. 

All patties, tarts, banburys, etc., are much improved if they 
are allowed to rest on ice for at least half an hour before going into 
the oven. 

If corn starch is to be used in place of flour, use the best. Don't 
use too much, a large tablespoonful always is sufficient to every pint 
of milk or water. 

Always follow our general rules and change flavors to suit your- 
self. Every one of our recipes can be used with different fruits, 
flavors and names changed, but follow the instructions otherwise. 

Success in pie baking depends a good deal on the mixing of the 
crust. Never work any more than necessary; just stir around enough 
to have it hold together and let rest as long as possible in cold place. 

Prick the top crust on every pie to let the steam escape. When 
using fresh fruit, insert in center of top crust a small round tube of 
tin or strong paper, through which all steam will escape as through 
a chimney. 

Whenever cornstarch is to be used, it pays to use only the very 
best. We can recommend Kingsford's Oswego Cornstarch as the 
purest and sweetest. 



FOR XOTES A.\0 RECITES. 



PART II 



Puddings, Souffle, etc. 



Cottage Broad Pudding. 

For ten persons. Soak as much as a half loaf of stale bread or 
six biscuits in a quart of milk. Beat up well together four or five 
eggs, one cup of sugar, one teaspoonful vanilla, one-half teaspoonful 
salt and two tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Mix up well with the 
bread, adding one cup of large raisins. Bake in a buttered and sugar- 
dusted china dish or tin pan. Set this dish in a pan of hot water. 
A little nutmeg improves the flavor. 

Bread and Butter Pudding. 

Slice your bread thin, spread well with butter, and fill your dish 
half full of this buttered bread; then pour custard (prepared same as 
for custard pie) over it ; omit raisins and bake same as the other 
bread pudding. 

Farina or Indian JXfeal Pudding. 

One-half pound of farina or meal, stirred into one quart of boiling 
milk and leave. on fire until it thickens; set away to cool, stirring into 
it, when cold, one-half pound of sugar, yolks of four eggs, the grated 
rind of a lemon and the stiff froth of the whites of four eggs; then add 
one even teaspoonful of good sifted baking powder, and one-half 
nutmeg, grated. Mix in well and bake one-half hour — not too hot. 

Souffle. 

Proceed the same as above, using eight eggs, and do not oake 
until time to serve. Bake in a hotter oven, using a china dish, and 
do not set into hot water as you do with puddings. 

( 17 ) 



— 18 — 
Tapioca mul Sago Pudding. 

For twelve persons. Put one-half pound of tapioca or sago in 
three pints of boiling water (never soak over night), stir and set on 
a slow fire ; stir continually to keep from sticking to the bottom. 
When it is all soft and jellied, put in double boiler with one pint of 
milk and one-quarter of a pound of butter and cook twenty minutes 
more until jellied again, setting away to cool. Beat up well four eggs 
with three-quarters of a cup of sugar (six ounces), one grated lemon, 
and a little nutmeg ; then mix well with the other mixture and bake 
about forty minutes — not too hot. 

Cottage Riee Pudding. 

For twelve persons. Put one-half pound of well-soaked rice in a 
galvanized kettle on a slow fire, with about three pints of boiling water 
and cook until all swelled and soft. If it boils dry, add more boiling 
water but do not disturb. When done, set away to cool. Proceed 
the same as above for sago. For sultana rice pudding, add one cup 
of sultana seedless raisins to above mixture. 

Rive Pudding, Family Style 

Pour two quarts of boiling water over a pound of rice and cook 
very soft, then adding lemon peel, one pound of sugar and a little 
nutmeg, two tablespoonfuls butter, and two tablespoonfuls corn 
starch. When all the water is boiled in, add a pint of milk and cook 
all dry again; then pack solid in any mould and let it settle. Before 
serving, turn out on a deep plate and sprinkle with cinnamon and pour 
over it a nice soft vanilla custard, cold. Dip your mould in cold 
water before filling with the rice. 

Roly-Poly, or Steamed Pudding. 

Mix together lightly, as for tea biscuits, one and one-half pounds 
of rich pastry flour, four ounces of butter or lard, one ounce of good 
baking powder, a little nutmeg, the yolks of three eggs, one-half tea- 
spoonful salt and about one pint of milk. Roll out about eighteen 
inches long and ten inches wide. Spread with any fruit or jam; roll 
up, set in a greased pan in a steamer and cover over. It will be done 
in half an hour. 



— 19 — 

Pmit Dumpling. 

For this the paste is the same as Roly-Poly Pudding. Roll ou. 
one-quarter of an inch thick; cut out with large, round cake cutter; 
put fruit and sugar in middle and double over; set in greased muffin 
tins and steam about one-half hour. A dozen different kinds can be 
made from this formula. 

Cabinet Pudding. 

Fill moulds three-quarters full with lady fingers or sponge cake, 
cut up fine; pour over it a rich custard, same as used for custard pie, 
and flavor to taste. 

~Diplom.ii tic Pudding. 

Proceed by the same rule as for cabinet pudding ; mix currants, 
sultana raisins and a little citron (cut very fine) with the sponge cake. 

Tutti-Prutti Pudding. 

Follow the same formula, only you may use pieces of different 
kinds of cake and sprinkle the fruit over the bottoms of moulds. 
Different names may be given this by using special fruits, such as 
peaches, oranges, etc. 

Cold Purina or Indian Pudding. 

Boil one-half pound of farina or meal with three pints of boiling 
milk, stir until it starts to thicken, then let it cool; add a little lemon 
or other flavor. Beat up stiff the whites of four eggs, mix all together, 
fill in moulds and set on ice. 

/Jo/'/et/ Indian Pudding. 

One cup .of Indian meal and one-half cup of flour, pour into one 
quart of boiling milk; when it thickens, add one-half enp (four ounces 
of brown sugar, one-half cup of finely chopped suet, a little salt, four 
eggs and a little nutmeg ; two tablespoonfuls of molasses may be 
added. Tie in a cloth and boil or steam from four to five hours. 



— 20 — 
Poor Man's Pudding. 

About six stale biscuits (or three biscuits and three corn muffins) 
grated fine, add a handful of stoned raisins, some washed currants, 
a good handful of brown sugar, and one cupful of flour. Chop fine 
with the flour one-quarter of a pound of beef suet and one teaspoonful 
of good baking powder. Mix all together with sufficient milk to make 
a paste; steam in greased and sugared dish about two hours. Add a 
little nutmeg or mace. 

English Plum Pudding. 

Chop fine one pound of beef suet with one cup of pastry flour; 
add three-quarters of a pound of brown sugar, three apples chopped 
fine, one-half pound prunes, one pound of raisins, one pound of cur- 
rants, five eggs, two grated lemon peels, one teaspoonful each of 
grated cinnamon, nutmeg and allspice, four biscuits or one-quarter of 
a loaf of bread, which you have first soaked in milk, and one glass of 
rum. Mix all well together, steam five hours in suitable mould, or 
boil four hours in napkin if preferred; dust with fine sugar afterwards 
on the platter, pour a little strong rum over it and set the rum on fire. 

Genuine* Old- Fashioned English Plum Pudding. 

One pound of suet, chopped fine, one pint of roasted bread 
crumbs, sifted, one pound of currants, one pound of raisins, one-half 
pound of citron, one-half teaspoonful of nutmeg, one pound of brown 
sugar, a little salt, six eggs, and two grated carrots. Boil slowly in 
mould not less than eight hours — if possible, boil six hours the first 
day and two hours before using. Pack solid in greased and sugared 
mould and tie up with cloth. Serve with French brandy sauce. 

Baked Apple Dumplings. 

Roll out leavings of puff paste one-quarter of an inch thick, cut 
in squares, lay one peeled and cored apple on each piece, fill the 
cavity with cinnamon sugar. Turn in the four ends of the paste, press 
together on top and bake. Serve with rum and hard sauce, or if cold, 
serve with whipped cream. 



— 21 — 

Chaetjlnta Pudtling. 

Stir until light one-quarter of a pound of butter and ten ounces 
of sugar, add the yolks of ten eggs, one teaspoonful of vanilla, six 
ounces of grated chocolate, cinnamon, one-quarter pound of pounded 
almonds, one-quarter pound of breadcrumbs, three ounces of flour, and 
the whites of ten eggs beaten stiff. Bake one and one-half hours, at 
about three hundred and seventy degrees. 

A^lmond Pudding. 

GERMAN STYLE. 

Stir light five ounces of butter and one-half pound of sugar; then 
add the yolks of nine eggs, lemon peel, six ounces of pounded almonds 
or one-half pound of almond paste, one-half pound of biscuits soaked 
in milk and squeezed out dry, and the snow of the whites of eight 
eggs. Bake in a buttered and sugar-dusted fancy mould. 

Queen Pudding. 

Mix, same as for wine cake, one pound of sugar, one-half pound 
of butter, one and one-half pounds of pastry flour, seven eggs, one- 
half pint of milk, one-half ounce of soda, one ounce of cream of 
tartar sifted in the flour, mace and citron. Bake in well-buttered 
and sugar-dusted moulds. 

Suet Pudding. 

Mix together one cup of stoned raisins, three and one-half cups 
of flour, one cup of chopped beef suet, cinnamon and mace. To one 
cup of cream or milk add one cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of 
soda and two eggs. Mix thoroughly, fill in a mould with tight-fitting 
cover, well buttered and dusted with crumbs or sugar. Steam three 
hours. 

Snow Pudding. 

For. twelve persons. Dissolve one ounce gelatine in one-half 
glass of sherry wine and as much water. In the snow of the whites 
of ten eggs beat three-quarters of a pound of fine sugar and the gela- 
tine. One orange peeled, and the -juice of the same, will increase the 
delicacy of flavor. Set away in little moulds to ha-rden. If fruit 
flavors and coloring are used, a variety of names can be given. 



— 22 — 

Min ute Pudding. 

Of one quart milk take enough with three ounces of flour to make 
a soft batter. The balance of the milk, with five ounces of sugar, 
set on the fire. When boiling, add one-half teaspoonful salt and two 
beaten eggs;, stir continually about five to eight minutes, until thick 
like creme. Serve with sweet cream, sweetened and seasoned with 
mace. 

Boston Brown Brand Pudding. 

Mix two pounds self-raising brown bread flour with one and one- 
half pints of cream or milk, one pint of molasses and enough water 
to make a soft dough, one cup of raisins, five ounces of finely 
chopped beef suet. Bake in water-bath one and a half t© two hours. 
A little sugar may be added. Before serving, pour hot brandy sauce 
over it to soften crust. 

Brown Bread Pudding;. 

■ 

NEW ENGLAND STYLE. 

Cut into thin slices a loaf of graham bread or brown bread; butter 
them well. Arrange them in layers in buttered, sugar-dusted moulds 
until half full; fill up with plain custard. Some English currants 
may be sprinkled between the layers; they give custard a rich mace 
flavor. Let soak for a half hour before baking; bake in water-bath. 

Floating Island. 

Beat the yolks of twelve eggs with ten ounces of sugar; add two 
ounces of cornstarch, vanilla and a little milk. Boil one quart of milk; 
stir into it the above mixture; take from the fire and when a little 
cool pour in a large glass or porcelain dish; set on ice. Beat very 
stiff the whites of six eggs; add a handful of sugar and a little vanilla. 
With a large spoon (dipped in water) take out in pieces and put in 
boiling water for a few minutes; then arrange these "snow-balls" 
on top of the custard. A little jelly may be sprinkled on top of each. 
Dust with powdered sugar and serve. 

Stock Sauce. 

In the saucepan dissolve together three tablespoonfuls of corn 
starch, one-half pound or one cup of brown or granulated sugar, a 
little mixed whole spice, one-half lemon rind and juice, with a pint of 



— 23 — 

cold water arid set on the fire. Let it simmer slowly until it is clear, 
add a little butter or salt and strain. Before serving, add one-half 
glass of any wine desired, or one tablespoonful of any extract, one- 
quarter pound of butter; set on stove and stir until butter is melted. 
Color to suit taste. 

Clm ten u Sa uoe. 

The proper name is Cheau d'Eau, but is generally called as above. 
Beat light the yolks of four eggs with two handfuls of powdered sugar 
and the rind and juice of half a lemon; stir in slowly one-half glass of 
Rhine wine and beat well until it is all foam, over a moderate fire. 
This is a favorite sauce. 

Mnrcl Snuee. 

Rub together to a froth one cup of butter, one and one-half cups 
of powdered sugar, the juice of half a lemon, or a little vanilla and the 
white of one egg. If you have a bag and tube drop in little stars, or 
set on a plate, sprinkle with mace and put it on ice to harden. 

Rum Sfiuce. 

Mix together one-half quantity of hard sauce and one-half quantity 
of stock sauce, add one small glass of rum, let it boil lively ft r about 
five minutes, keeping it hot until served. 

Cren m Sa nee. 

Mix together, in a double boiler, one cup of fine sugar, one and 
one-half pints of cream and milk, one ounce of corn starch or two 
ounces of flour, one-half teaspoonful of salt and one tablespoonful of 
butter; stir occasionally, and when just starting to thicken remove 
and strain. Flavor with vanilla. 

Freneh Cream Snuee. 

Add a little cognac brandy to mixture for cream sauce. 

Yankee Sauce. 

Same as rum sauce, only add a little ground ginger and molasses. 



— 24 — 
Brnncly Snuee. 

Stir to a cream one cup of butter, one and one-half cups of sugar, 
one-half of grated nutmeg, one-half of the peel and the juice of one 
lemon; set on a good fire; add three eggs and one glass of brandy. Let 
it boil about five minutes. This is a very fine sauce. 

Omelette Souffle. 

Take the yolks of six eggs, a little vanilla, one-quarter of a pound 
of sugar and one spoonful sweet cream; stir fifteen minutes; add 
quickly the whites of six eggs beaten very stiff; mix it very light; 
pour in a warm porcelain dish greased with butter, bake at once, 
not too slow. Dust a little fine sugar over it. Flavor with vanilla. 

Fritters. 

Fritters are frequently made with apples, peaches and other 
large fruits with this recipe: Dissolve one yeastcake in one pint warm 
milk; add one-quarter of a pound of sugar, salt, four eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls best olive oil and enough pastry flour to make a soft batter. 
Set to rise; then beat again, add a little nutmeg, throw in the fruit, 
cover all with the batter, and fry in hot lard. 

Fritters with Baking Powder. 

The same proportions; instead of the yeast use one tablespoonful 
of baking powder, and mix shortly before using. 

A In y on n a is e. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

In a deep soup-plate place the yolks of four eggs, two teaspoon- 
fuks best ground mustard, three-quarters of a teaspoonful of salt, one- 
half teaspoonful cayenne pepper, and on@-half teaspoonful white 
pepper. With a large fork or spoon stir continually in one direction. 
With the other hand pour in slowly from time to time, from the bottle, 
the b^st oliv^e oil. As soon as it commences to bind and get stringy, 
add quickly a little lemon juice or vinegar. Keep stirring continually 
until three-fourths of a pint of oil, the juice of one lemon, and one-half 



— 25 — 

gill of vinegar are used up. Stir up well, then place at once on ice. 
Some cooks make a big time about mayonnaise, but if everything is 
properly prepared there is no excuse for failure. Everything should 
be cold, especially the oil. Should the dressing break in spite of all, 
add quickly another yolk of egg, and stir, holding back the oil for a 
minute. 



Combination of Puddings and Sauces. 



Not every sauce corresponds with every pudding ; the following 
will be found to correspond well: 

Cottage Rice pudding and Vanilla sauce. 
Sago pudding and Madeira sauce. 
Farina pudding and Cream sauce. 
Cabinet pudding and Chateau sauce. 
Indian pudding and French Cream sauce. 
Cottage Bread pudding and Rum or Hard sauce. 
Fruit pudding and Brandy sauce. 
Sponge pudding and Rhine Wine sauce. 
Angel Food pudding and Raspberry sauce. 
English Plum pudding and Rum and Hard sauce. 
Tapioca pudding and Sherry Wine sauce. 



— 26 



General Rules. 



Never soak rice for rice puddings. 

Always use pastry flour if on hand. 

If patent flour is used, use a little extra lard and mix moist. 

When berries are used for Roly Poly, prepare them the same way 
as for pies in Part I. 

If boiled in a kettle direct on the fire, put a plate on the bottom 
to keep the pudding from burning. 

To boil puddings in a bag, grease the inside of the cloth with 
butter and sugar; when done, dip the bag in cold water so that it 
will loosen easily. 

If you want to steam puddings, put the mixture in a greased and 
sugared mould or dish and tie over with a cloth and set into steamer. 
Cover steamer closely and steam a little longer than for boiling. 

There are other formulae for plum puddings, but I give two only, 
which are warranted the best. The first is what I use; it cuts and 
cooks excellently. The other is the genuine old Colonial recipe. 



FOR JXOTES AAD RECIPES. 



FOR ^OTES .LVU KE<.I1 J E>. 



F 3 A R T III 



Ice Creams, Sherbets, Jellies, etc. 



European Style of Freezing. 

Especially for water-ices, the European hand-freezing process is 
the best, in fact the only proper way. A plain packing can, of zinc 
if possible, is used. Set it in a packing tub, well packed with salt and 
; ce. Do not pack too solid, but so you can turn the can with 
one hand; strain and pour in your syrup; put the cover on (with 
handle) and turn for about five minutes, then with spatula scrape off 
the sides, and, turning the can with one hand, stir up the syrup on 
the sides; put the cover on again after a few minutes and turn fast, 
and so continue turning, occasionally scraping the sides down until 
all is well frozen; then, after letting all th-? water run off, re-pack 
with more ice and salt, beat up well once more and set away. The 
open "Vienna Ice Cream Machine" is now adopted by many of the 
leading caterers and is worked on this principle. The "American Ice 
Cream Machine " is certainly more convenient, more profitable, and 
quicker in working. It beats up the cream, or ices, increasing the 
contents to double the liquid quantity at least, but it does not give it 
the fine, silk-like finish obtained by the use of the European method. 

Vienna Toe Cream {Vanilla). 

Set on a moderate fire in a clean kettle two quarts of milk, yolks 
of twelve eggs, one-half of a vanilla bean, one and three-fourth pounds 
of sugar, stirring slowly but steadily with beater. As soon as it is 
near boiling, take off, cool a little, and add one quart of double 
cream; strain through a fine sieve and freeze. 

Ice Croni}} with 7S*>£>s. 

Mix well two quarts of cream, one quart of milk, six eggs, one 
and one-fourth pounds of powdered sugar; vanilla. 

i 29 | 



— 30 — 

l^hilndelphin Ice Cream. 

Beat up two quarts of double cream, three-fourths of a pound 
of fine sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla, strain through a fine sieve 
into freezer, add the whites of two eggs and freeze. In place of 
whites of eggs, one tablespoonful of desiccated egg white can be used 
to advantage. 

American Jee Cream. 

Beat one pint egg yolks with one quart of milk or cream; 
cook two quarts of milk with one and a quarter pounds of sugar, add 
the solution and two tablespoonfuls of vanilla or lemon, strain and 
add two whole raw eggs. This is an inexpensive cream. 

Custard Cream. 

One gallon of milk, one and one-half pint eggs or yolks, two 
pounds of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch. Set on a mod- 
erate fire; stir until near boiling, but do not let it boil up. If desired, 
about two quarts of sweet cream may be added with ten ounces of 
powdered sugar. Flavor to taste. 

Lemon or Orange lee Cream. 

To any of the above mixtures add one ounce of either lemon or 
orange extract to a gallon. 

Ttaspberry Frnit Cream. 

Two quarts of double cream, one quart of ripe berries, one 
lemon peel and juice, and one and a quarter pounds of fine sugar; 
stir up; press through a fine sieve and freeze slowly. 

Peaches, strawberries and all other fruits may be used the same 
as above. 

Pineapple Cream. 

Make same as above, only grate into it one large, peeled pineapple,. 

well ripened. 



— 31 — 
Chooolute /ce Cream. 

Dissolve six ounces of chocolate with one-half pound of powdered 
sugar and three-fourths of a pint of water on a slow fire. Stir until 
all is smooth and getting thick, then add slowly any of the above 
mixtures. 

If it is desired to make chocolate cream from vanilla already 
frozen, dissolve chocolate as above, then cool a little, and add by 
small spoonfuls some of the frozen cream until all is smooth and 
thoroughly cold; then add sufficient of the frozen cream, set in well 
packed freezer; stir a few minutes and set away. 



Chocolate Essence 

TO KEEP ON HAND. 

Dissolve two pounds of chocolate in a hot water bath; cook five 
pounds of sugar and one-half pound of glucose with one quart of water 
to a syrup, then pour it slowly into the chocolate, stirring well; add 
some powdered sugar if you want to make it sweeter. Set away in a 
cool place. 

Coffee Crt'.im. 

Mix two quarts of .double cream and three-fourths of a pound of 
powdered sugar. Cook one quart of milk, add one-fourth of a pound 
of mixed Java and Mocha coffee, ground, and let -it simmer about 
fifteen minutes; add two handfuls of sugar and let it stand some time; 
strain into the cream; add three eggs and freeze. 

Hokey- Pokey. 

Dissolve two ounces of cornstarch in one gallon of milk; add one 
and three-fourth pounds of sugar; boil until it starts to thicken; take 
from the fire and add two ounces of vanilla, one can condensed milk, 
whites of three eggs, and strain. 

Caramel Cream. 

To one gallon of Philadelphia or Vienna cream add four ounce* 
of burnt sugar (caramel) and one ounce of vanilla. 



— 32 — 
Bisque Tec Cream. 

For each gallon of Philadelphia cream allow, before serving, one 
glassful of strong wine and a half pound of roasted, crushed macaroons. 

C roquant or "Nougat Ice Crc«»n. 

To Philadelphia or Vienna cream add, -after freezing, one-half 
pound of crushed croquant, a little vanilla and sugar color. If it 
takes too long to cook fresh croquant, crush one-half pound raw well 
roasted almonds with fine sugar. 

Sherbets and Punches* 

Few pastry cooks make a distinction between sherbet and water- 
ice. For sherbet or punch, for twenty-five persons, use the following 
formula: To two and one-fourth pounds of sugar add two and one- 
half quarts of boiling water; the juice of four and rind of two lemons; 
stir all up well; strain and add the whites of three eggs and freeze well. 
This is a general formula for all sherbets and punches and gives the 
best satisfaction. Lemons are so cheap now everywhere, that there 
is no excuse for using acids in their place. Using water in place of 
milk or cream reduces the cost so much that all possible care should 
be taken, and only the best of liquor and .fruits should be used in 
their preparation. 

Roman Punch. 

To above mixture add, before serving, one wineglassful of rum. 

Cardinal Punch. 

To above add one orange peel and the juice of two oranges; 
color bright red. Before serving add one wineglassful of sherry wine. 

Pineapple Sherbet. 

A small can of grated pineapple, or a small fresh grated pine- 
apple added to above. 



— ay — 

Orange and Lemon Sherbets. 

Add to formula for Sherbets the grated peels of two and the 
juice of four oranges or lemons. Other fruits for sherbets are used 
in the same proportion. 

Water Joes. 

Genuine water-ice is best made in a Vienna freezer or by hand. 
The very best ices should not be beaten up while freezing, but be 
compact and firm when done. The genuine formula is: Boil one 
quart of water with one and one-half pounds of sugar to a syrup, then 
add the grated peel of one and juice of two lemons, and one pint of 
juice of any kind of fruit. If the fruit is tart, such as red currants, 
use more sugar. If you want to beat up same, add the whites of 
two eggs. 

Lemon Ice. 

Take one extra peel and the juice of two more lemons than in 
the formula. 

Frozen Lemonade. 

Take half of any sherbet, after freezing, and add one pint of 
water and one handful of powdered sugar to it. Fill glasses three- 
fourths full and lay on the top of each a small piece of the sherbet. 

Frozen Fruit. 

Only fresh fruit as may be in season, should be used. Freeze 
any fruit as for sherbet above; before serving mix in one quart of 
fresh fruit; whole peaches, apricots and such large fruit should first 
be cut in smaller pieces. 

Jellies. 

Jellies and cold desserts are often prescribed for the sick, but 
some cooks use gelatine to excess, and often poor gelatine at that, 
so that the glue taste kills the good quality of the jelly. 

The following is a stock formula: Dissolve one package of gela- 
tine (four ounces) in two quarts of cold water, add one quart of boiling 
water, two and one-half pounds of granulated sugar, a little mixed 



— 34 — 

whole spice, the juice of five lemons, the peel of two lemons and 
about twelve broken-up egg shells; set all on a moderate fire and 
stir well. Beat up until stiff the whites of four eggs, add one pint of 
water to them and mix in the boiling mixture; let it boil three or four 
minutes and sprinkle a little water over the top several times to stop 
overflowing. This last process gives jelly a beautiful crystal-like 
clearness. Take it off the fire and strain at once through a flannel or 
felt bag. If not all clear the first time, pour back at once, straining 
again. Do not disturb the bag in the least and keep it in a warm 
place. From this stock you can make any kind of jelly; and if put 
away in a dry, dark place in bottles with tight covers, will keep fresh 
a long time. 

Lemon Jelly. 

To each quart of the above, dissolved by warming, add the juice 
of two lemons and one-half of a lemon peel cut up very fine. 

Wine Jelly. 

For twelve persons. Dissolve one quart of stock and add one-half 
of a glassful of any kind of wine. Fill in moulds and set on ice. 

Sherry or Port Wine Jelly'. 

Add a few drops of burnt sugar color and one-half of a glassful of 
wine to each quart. 

Clnret Jelly. 

Add a few drops of cochineal coloring and one-half of a glassful 
of Bordeaux wine for each quart. 

Champagne Jelly. 

To one quart of stock jelly add one-third of a pint of champagne 
cider, fill in champagne glasses, and set on ice; beat the whites of 
two eggs very stiff, add two tablespoonfuls of dissolved gelatine, and 
pour quickly on the top of each glass and set on ice until ready to serve. 

Orange Jelly. 

To one quart of stock add the juice of one orange and the rind 
of half an orange, cut very fine, or one tablespoonful of orange extract. 



— 35 — 

Fruit Jelly, 

Put a pint of stock jelly into a quart mould and set it to harden; 
when half set lay on the top a layer of nice washed berries, cherries 
or other fruit; fill up with dissolved stock and set to harden again. 

Demi-Glaee of Coffee. 

The same as snow pudding (see Part II. ), only omit the wine and 
add one cupful of strong coffee and a few drops of sugar color to 
gelatine. 

Blanc JMange. 

ESPECIALLY RECOMMENDED FOR THE SICK. 

One handful of sweet blanched almonds pounded very fine in 
a mortar; dissolve two ounces of gelatine in one quart of sweet milk; 
add six ounces of sugar; let it, with the almonds, come to near the 
boiling point on the stove, then add one and one-half pints of sweet 
cream; let simmer a few minutes, still stirring it. When nearly cold, 
strain into the prepared moulds and set on ice. 

Charlotte Russe. 

Line a glass dish or bowl with ladyfingers or slices of sponge 
cake and fill, with the following creme: Dissolve one ounce of gela- 
tine in a half pint of water, set warm; whip one quart of double 
cream very stiff, let it drain for a while, then beat in the yolks of two 
eggs, six ounces of powdered sugar, and add the gelatine and vanilla. 
Fill the molds and set away on ice. It can be ornamented with 
whipped cream. 

Swiss Cream ^IcrinQiie. 

Soak a thick board in fresh water. In the meantime beat the 
whites of seven eggs very stiff and add gradually one pound of pow- 
dered sugar; flavor with vanilla. Set with bag and tube (or large 
spoon) about the size of a goose egg, on paper, dust lightly with 
sugar, set on the wet board and bake in a very cool oven. When hard 
and a light brown take off one at a time; scrape out the soft inside 
with the back of a spoon and lay the shells bottom up on tins and 
put back in the oven to dry out. They can be kept for months. 
Before using, set two together with whipped cream. 



— 36 — 
Raspberry Floats. 

Float: In farina boiler boil one pint of raspberry juice, one- 
fourth of a pound of sugar and two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch; add, 
as soon as thick, the whites of four eggs well beaten; let all cool. 

Creme: Boil one pint of milk with three ounces of sugar; stir 
together the yolks of three eggs, one ounce of cornstarch, a little 
milk and four drops of almond extract, and pour it into the boiling 
milk; as soon as it commences to thicken, pour in a glass dish, and 
when cold lay the float on top by spoonfuls. 

Fruit Blanc Mange. 

Dissolve one ounce of gelatine in a half pint of sweet cream. 
To one pint of fresh red currants or other fruit, add ten ounces of 
fine sugar, one spoonful of lemon juice. Let soak one hour, mashing 
them up well; strain, mix well with the gelatine, stirring in hot 
water bath, and fill in the dish. Serve with sweet cream, poured 
over, or whipped cream. 

Raspberry Bavarian. 

Dissolve two ounces of gelatine in a half pint of cream; press 
out enough raspberries to get one pint of juice; add sugar to it; after 
it is strained add the gelatine to it; set in ice water, stirring it until 
nearly cold. Beat up one pint of double cream, very stiff; let the 
other mixtnre run into it quickly, stirring it. Fill at once in fancy 
mould and set on ice. Turn out when ready to serve, by dipping for a 
second in hot water and ornament with whipped cream. 

Strawberry Bavarian, Chocolate, or any other kind is made on 
the same principle, only substitute different flavors and colors. 



— 37 — 



General Rules. 



For freezing, figure one quart of rock salt to five quarts of finely 
chopped ice. 

Punch, sherbet and frozen fruits are generally served in glasses 
with handles. 

One ounce of good gelatine is always sufficient to one quart of 
liquid for any dessert. 

Always use double cream, that is cream which has stood twenty- 
four hours undisturbed. 

Too much salt will freeze cream quicker, but makes it coarse 
and melts the ice too quickly. 

Gelatine should always be soaked first in cold water before being 
melted. If heated too quickly or if boiling water is thrown over it, 
a disagreeable lime taste is given to it. 

To fill fancy moulds, such as flowers, etc., in ice cream and ices, 
each part must be filled well, so all the rims are packed solid when 
closed, then wrap each mould in strong paper and pack at least three 
hours in ice. 



FOR NOTES AND RECIPES. 



PART IV. 



Sponge Cdl<es, Pound Ca^es, 
ka\)er Cal(es, etc 



Sponge Cake. 

Most] of the younger bakers, who learned their trade in this 
country, are using hardly any recipes for real sponge cakes. In gen- 
eral there is now so much cream of tartar and baking powder intro- 
duced in the recipes that these cakes are hardly worthy the name 
any longer. Sponge cake (biscuit) is (or used to be) as a rule one of 
the finest and most delicate cakes, and widely used for the sick. 

European Sponge Cake. 

WARM. 

Beat fourteen eggs and one pound of fine sugar well in a kettle, 
then set in a hot water bath and beat until thoroughly heated. Beat 
cold again, until light and firm; add one tablespoonful of water. 
Sometimes it may be necessary to beat warm the second time, to get 
it firm. (It must be somewhat standing up, before setting down 
smooth, when you take out the batter, before it can be called done.) 
Stir into this one pound of sifted pastry flour, in which two ounces of 
cornstarch may be mixed and one tablespoonful of lemon. Bake 
medium hot, say 360 degrees. 

Vienna Sponge Cake. 

COLD 

Beat the whites of fifteen eggs very stiff; add by handfuls part 
of one pound of powdered sugar, then add the remainder of the 
sugar and the yolks of fifteen eggs, stirring in carefully. Take out 
the beater and mix in one pound of pastry flour; flavor with lemon. 
Bake at 360 degrees. 

(39) 



— 40 — 

Large Sponge Cake. 

Beat up well in a bowl the yolks of eighteen eggs with one pound 
of powdered sugar; beat very stiff the whites of eighteen eggs and 
add one-fourth of it to the sugar in the bowl, then mix in lightly one 
pound of sifted pastry flour (one-half pound of cornstarch and one- 
half pound of flour mixed, is still better), the rest of the whites of egg 
and lemon or vanilla. Bake slowly and well in large paper-lined tin, 
at 350 degrees. 

Vienna Sponge Cake. 

Beat the whites of twenty-eight eggs very stiff (it is best to use 
it two or three days old); add by handfuls one pound of powdered 
sugar, then the yolks of twenty-eight eggs, and last one pound of fine 
cake flour; mix as light as possible; bake quick in deep, square niuuld. 
This cake must be raised in a quick heat; if not, it gets dark in color 
before it is done. When once done raising and half baked, open the 
dampers or doors, and finish slower. Cut in five cent squares, and 
dust well with sugar. Bake at 400 degrees. 

L,ight P*tund Cake. 

Use the first or third recipe for sponge cake, only mix in lightly, 
after the flour, one-half of a pound of good melted butter. 

Pound Cake. 

One pound of powdered sugar and one pound of good dry butter, 
rubbed to cream; add slowly, one at a time, ten eggs, which you beat a 
little first, and in warm weather, keep in ice water; then mix in one 
pound (good weight) of pastry flour, mace and vanilla. It is best to 
add flour by the handful. Bake in-cool oven, aboilt two hours; if not 
sure of its being done, stick a broomstraw in the center to the bottom, 
and if it pulls out clean, without dough on it, the cake is done. 

Raisin Pound Cake. 

To the above mixture, add two and one-half pounds of Sultana 
faisins; rub them first well in flour. 



— 41 — 
American Sponge Cuke, 

Beat up one pound of powdered sugar with twelve eggs, set in 
hot water bath until warm, beat until it does not run down quick 
from the beater, when raised; then add lightly one pound of pastry 
flour, sifted, with one-half of an ounce of baking powder. Bake in 
duchess tins at about 360 degrees. 

Jelly Rail. 

Take the above recipe and with bag and tube lay out in even 
thin layer, on a cooky pan, all lined with paper; use the lady finger 
tube. Bake quick at 400 degrees, and turn out at once on sugar- 
dusted paper; spread with jelly and roll up while warm. 

Common *Jelly Roll. 

Stir up together well one pound of sugar with six eggs, add one- 
half of a pint of milk, lemon, one and one-half pounds pastry flour, 
and one ounce of baking powder. 

Imitation Raisin Cake and Pound Cake. 

Two pounds of sugar and one and one-fourth pounds of butter, 
rubbed to cream; add slowly one and one-half pints of eggs, one and 
one-half pints of milk, two and one-half pounds of cake flour with 
one ounce of baking powder, sifted; mix in three and one-half pounds 
of seedless raisins rubbed in one-half pound of flour. Finer cake is 
made by adding milk and flour alternately, part of each at a time, 
mixing light. Leaving raisins out will make a fine pound cake. 

Gold Cake. 

One-half of a pound of butter, three-fourths of a pound of sugar, 
rubbed to cream; add slowly five eggs, one-third of a pint of milk, 
and then one pound of pastry flour with one teaspoonful of baking 
powder, a little egg coloring and vanilla. Bake in flat squares at 370 
to 380 degrees. 

Orange Cake. 

To the above mixture add the juice and grated peel of one 
orange. Bake in layers, set together with orange cream filling. 
(See Part IX.) 



— 42 — 
Layer Cake. 

For layers, the gold cake mixture is very fine. Bakes very even. 

Marble Calce. 

Take the above gold cake mixture. Place one-half of a tea- 
spoonful of red coloring in a china bowl and mix in enough dough to 
make it a bright red. In another bowl melt one-third of a pound of 
chocolate; and mix also with enough of above dough. Now fill a 
paper-lined pan half full with plain gold cake dough; with a spoon 
make four deep furrows in it, fill them alternately with red and 
chocolate; fill up to the top with plain cake dough, and smooth over. 
Bake like citron cake. 

Citron Cake. 

Rub one and one-half pounds of butter with one and three- 
fourth pounds of powdered sugar to cream; add slowly one and one- 
half pints of egg whites, then two pounds of flour with one-half of a 
teaspoonful of baking powder; beat the eggs a little first; add 
one and a half pounds of citron, sliced thin and rolled in flour; almond 
flavor. Bake at 370 degrees. 

L,ady Cake. 

Cream together two pounds of powdered sugar with one and one- 
half pounds of butter; rub in slowly the whites of eight eggs, then 
beat the whites of eight more eggs to a froth and add part of it to the 
above, the rest alternately with two and one-fourth pounds of pastry 
flour. Bake at 350 degrees. 

Silvei* Cake. 

One-half of a pound of butter, one-half of a pound of lard, one 
and one-half pounds sugar, all creamed together; add one pint of egg 
whites slowly, then three-fourths of a pint of milk with one-fourth of 
an ounce of soda in it; then two pounds of flour with one-half of an 
ounce of cream of tartar; mix light. Bake at 370 degrees. 



— 43 — 
Citron Cake. Ao. 2. 

The silver cake recipe makes a nice, cheap citron cake, with one 
and one-half pounds of citron added. 

Wedding Cake. 

Cream together one pound of butter with one and one-fourth 
pounds of powdered sugar; add slowly twelve eggs; then one and one- 
fourth pounds of pastry flour with one-half of an ounce of baking 
powder; soak one and one-half pounds of washed currants, one and 
one-half pounds of stoned raisins, three-fourths of a pound of sliced 
citron, with brandy; mix to above dough; add one-half of a nutmeg. 

Dark Wedding Cake. 

Take pound cake mixture (genuine) and add one-half of a pint ot 
Porto Rico molasses, two ounces of cinnamon, allspice and cloves, 
one teaspoonful of vanilla, one teaspoonful of almond, one and one- 
half pounds of currants, one and one-half pounds of seedless raisins, 
three-fourths of a pound of sliced citron, all mixed well; one glass of 
sherry wine, one glass of brandy. Bake very slowly. 

Wine Cake. Ao. 1. 

Cream together two pounds of sugar with three-fourths of a 
pound of butter and lard; add eight eggs slowly, one quart of milk, 
vanilla or lemon, three pounds of flour and two ounces of baking 
powder. Dust with sugar before baking. Bake at 370 degrees. 

Wine Cake. A T o. 2. 

Cream together two pounds of butter and lard, four pounds of 
sugar, two pints of eggs, three pints of milk, six and one-t-alf pounds 
of flour, five and one-half ounces of baking powder, egg coloring and 
mace. Prepare as above. 

Strawberry Short Cake. Ao. 1. 

Make a rich tea biscuit dough of three pounds of flour, six ounces 
of butter and lard, two and one-half ounces of baking powder, a little 
salt, and one quart of milk; roll out in round layers one-fourth of an 



— 44 — 

inch thick, wash one layer a little with butter, lay another on top 
and bake. Take apart, spread with butter on the soft side, fill well 
with berries and juice and set the top on, spread with berries again, 
and pour juice over all. Have berries mixed well with powdered 
sugar for one hour. 

Strawberry Short Calce. JVo. 2. 

Take layer cake (plain layers), spread well with meringue (the 
whites of six eggs beaten with one-half pound of powdered sugar), 
spread with berries, dust with sugar, lay another layer on top, spread 
again, set the berries in rows on top, sprinkle with sugar, ornament 
a border around the edge with the meringue, and set a few minutes 
in the oven to brown the top. 

Strawberry Meringue Squares. 

Same as above, baked in squares, not too thick, cut in ten cent 
squares, well browned, are good sellers in season. 

Duchess. 2Vo. 1. 

Mix like wine cake. One pound of butter and lard, two pounds 
of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of egg coloring, seven eggs, one and 
three-fourth pints of milk, mace, three and one-fourth pounds of 
flour, two and one-half ounces of baking powder. 

Duchess. 2Vo. 2. 

Cream together two and one-half pounds of sugar, one and 
one-half pounds of butter and lard, one quart of eggs, slowly added; 
one quart of milk, in which is dissolved one ounce of soda; four and 
one-half pounds of flour, with two ounces of cream of tartar and a 
little mace. Frost half chocolate, half white. Bake in square tins, 
lined with paper. 

Angel ~Food.. 

Beat the whites of ten eggs very stiff; sieve together one-half of a 
pound of powdered sugar, five ounces of pastry flour, one-half of a 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar; mix all very light in the snow; one 



— 45 — 

teaspoonful of vanilla. Dip your moulds in cold water before filling. 
Bake in a moderate heat about thirty minutes. As soon as baked, 
turn the mould upside down, but rest on one side, so the air can cir- 
culate under it. 

Jelly Ca/cc. 

Cream together two pounds of sugar with, one pound of butter 
and lard; add slowly eight eggs, then one and three-fourth pints of 
milk, and lastly, three pound of flour with two ounces of baking 
powder. Grease the tins well and lay a small square piece of paper 
in the center. Fill half full and smooth on top. Bake quick and 
turn out at once on sugar dusted paper. Trim the edges a little, 
spread bottom layer with jelly, set another one on top; spread again, 
setting another layer on top. Frost with lemon icing, and draw 
thick lines through it with a jelly cornet; cut through crosswise, then 
with the back of a knife. Or you can spread the tops with jelly, 
laying a border of cocoanut around. 

Cot'oanut L,ayer Cake. 

Set three layers together with cream frosting (see Part IX. i, 
sprinkle each with cocoanut; frost the tops and sides also and sprinkle 
well with cocoanut; give the frosting a rich flavor of vanilla. 

Chocolate Layer Cake. 

Same as above, only fill and cover with chocolate frosting. 
Draw a few cross lines in white frosting over the chocolate, and run 
through crosswise with the back of a knife; or lay a border of walnut 
halves over the top. 

W liite Mountain Cake. 

Bake ,hick layers with the following mixture: One and one-half 
pounds of sugar and twelve ounces of butter creamed together; add 
slowly the whites of twelve eggs, one pint of milk, and two pounds of 
flour with one and one-half ounces of baking powder; almond flavor. 
Set two layers together with jelly; cover well with light meringue; 
dust with cocoanut and set a minute in hot oven, to brown the top. 



— 46 — 
Almond Cake. 

Cream well one-half pound of almond paste, three-fourths of a 
pound of sugar, the yolks of twelve eggs, and one egg. Beat the 
whites of twelve eggs very stiff; add half of it light under the above, 
then mix in ten ounces of sifted pastry flour, the rest of the egg 
whites and a little vanilla; mix carefully, and not too much. Bake 
in moderate heat, in large, round tin, lined with paper. Frost with 
vanilla water icing, very thin. 

Genuine Philadelphia J*ou/i(Z Cake. 

SELLS AT 15 CFNTS PER POUND. 

Fourteen pounds of fine sugar cream with six pounds of butter and 
two pounds of lard ; four and one-half quarts of eggs, two quarts of 
milk, one-half ounce of soda; last fifteen pounds of cake flour sifted 
with one ounce of cream of tartar ; mace, vanilla, one-fourth ounce of 
egg color. The same mixture can be used for all kinds of fruit cake. 

Jbtagnolia Cake. 

Mix like gold cake: three pounds of fine sugar, two and one- 
fourth pounds of butter, one quart of egg whites, two and three-fourth 
pounds of cake flour, almond flavor. Bake in diamond-shaped pans. 
Ice with fondant or water icing, flavored with vanilla and a drop of al- 
mond, and lay some French cherries on top. 

German Hrodtorte. 

BREADTART. 

Pound fine in mortar: one pound of raw almonds with four or five 
eggs ; then stir until light with oneand one-half pounds of sugar in a 
bowl, adding twenty-four yolks gradually. At the same time moisten one- 
half pound roasted, finely-ground bread crumbs with rum (some use port 
or sherry wine) ; add it to the above mixture with two ounces of fine 
chopped citron, the same of orange, one-half ounce of cinnamon, one- 
fourth of allspice ; last stir in very carefully twenty egg whites, beaten 
very stiff, and four ounces of flour. When baked in deep, round tin, 
paper-lined, turn over at once on a sieve to cool. Ice with rum flavored 
or vanilla icing. 

Chocolate Torte. 

The same formula as above, only take two ounces less bread and 
moisten with warm water, to which add vanilla and lemon flavor, and 
add six ounces powdered chocolate or cocoa. 

Caramel Cake. 

Cream well one pound of shortening, one and one-half pounds of 
sugar, then ten eggs, vanilla added; one-half pound of raw almonds 
roasted and chopped very fine ; one pint of milk, two pounds of cake 
flour, one-half ounce of baking powder. Rake in Dutchess pans. If 
used for layer-cakes, bake in flat layers and fill with soft egg icing, to 
which add some burnt sugar and a little vanilla. 



— 47 — 



General Rules. 



Add egg coloring to butter or lard, if any is used. 

Seedless (Sultana) raisins are the best for large cakes. 

In summer wash your butter in ice water first; in winter soften 
a little in oven before using it. 

If the oven bakes from the bottom, set your tin on another pan 
first, with heavy papers between. 

Fruit for large cake should always be rubbed well with flour first. 
Keep eggs on ice, if whole or broken up. 

For large square cakes it is best to have a wooden frame made, 
which should be greased and paper-lined; set on level and cook in 
tin. This avoids crust on the sides of cakes. 

Grease all tins for loafcakes first, then line with paper, and for 
square cakes line the sides again, after the paper, with strips of card- 
board. This avoids all hard crust and waste. 



FOR NOTES AND RECIPES. 



PART V. 



Small Cal<es, Cookies, Cup Cal<es, 
Drop Cal<es, etc. 



Sugar Cookies. 

Mix together four pounds of sugar, two pounds of lard, eight or 
nine eggs, one quart of milk, one-half pint of water, one and one- 
half ounces of ammonia, one-fourth of an ounce of soda, a little mace 
or nutmeg. Then add eight and one-half pounds of pastry flour, 
roll out one-fourth of an inch thick, wash over the top after it is cut 
out, dip in granulated sugar. Bake hot at 400 degrees. 

Shrewsbury Cnkes. 

One pound of butter, three-fourths of a pound of sugar, one and 
three-fourth pounds of flour, mace and cinnamon; rub all together dry. 
Then add four eggs (yolks of eight eggs are better), ere tablespoonful 
of cream or milk; mix all very light together, and if possible, let it 
rest on ice for some time. Roll out .ike cookies, press the top with 
a fork and wash. Mix one egg, one spoonful of milk, one-half tea- 
spoonful of sugar, one-half spoonful of salt. Different shapes can be 
given to the mixtures. Bake hot. 

Seed Cakes. 

Use recipe for sugar cookies as above, or this: One pound of 
sugar, ten ounces of butter and lard, one ounce of ammonia, seven 
eggs, one pint of milk, mace, caraway seeds, four pounds of pastry 
flour. Roll out one-fourth of an inch thick, cut out with a scalloped 
cutter, wash with milk or egg wash, sprinkle with caraway seed, or 
lay one large raisin in center. 

(49) 



— 50 — 

Jumbles or Drops, 

Cream together one and one-half pounds of powdered sugar, 
three-fourths of a pound of butter and lard; then add slowly nine 
eggs, then one pint of milk, in which dissolve three-fourths of an 
ounce of ammonia, then three pounds of pastry flour, and lemon 
extract. Bake on ungreased tins, dropping them with your hand, the 
size of a dollar for drops. For jumbles, frost them after they are 
baked. 

Jelly Fingers. 

Mixture is the same as for drops. Lay out like lady fingers on 
ungreased tins; dust with powdered sugar; bake hot; cut loose as 
soon as done. When cold set together with jelly. 

Jelly Diamonds. 

One pound of butter and lard; rub with one and one-half pounds 
of sugar, one pint of eggs, one and one-fourth pints of milk, egg col- 
oring, two pounds of flour and one ounce of baking powder; flavor 
with vanilla. Bake hot in flat sheet and cut in two, set together with 
jelly. Frost on top with vanilla icing and ornament with jelly. 

2Vew Year Cakes. 

Two and one-fourth pounds of sugar, one and one-fourth pounds 
of butter and lard, one and one-fourth pints of water, one-half of an 
ounce of ammonia, one-fifth of an ounce of soda, five and three- 
fourth pounds of flour; mix like sugar cakes. Bake hot. They can 
be rolled out and cut with different shaped cutters or pressed in fancy 
moulds. Wash with same wash as lemon snaps. 

Drop Cakes, 

Two and one-fourth pounds of sugar, one and one-fourth pounds 
of butter and lard, thirteen eggs; rub to cream; add one quart of milk 
(short measure), one ounce of ammonia, four and one-fourth pounds 
of flour; vanilla flavor. Bake on flour-dusted, lightly greased tins. 
Sprinkle with currants. 



— 51 — 

Improved New Year Cakes. 

Two and one-fourth pounds of sugar, two pounds of butter, one- 
half of an ounce of ammonia, a pinch of soda, one pint of water (good 
measure), six and one-fourth pounds of flour; lemon flavor. Mix and 
bake as above. 

Sponge Biscuits. 

One and one-half pounds of powdered sugar beaten up with 
fifteen eggs and one-half of an ounce of soda; vanilla; then add 
two and one-fourth pounds of pastry flour with one ounce of cream 
of tartar. Drop on lightly greased flour-dusted tins. Bake in a 
moderate heat; cut loose at once; ice on bottom. 

Fancy Clip Cakes. 

Cream together one and one-fourth pounds of sugar, nine ounces 
of butter and lard, seven eggs, and egg coloring; add one pint of milk 
with one-half of an ounce of ammonia, then two and one-fourth 
pounds of flour; grease little scalloped moulds very lightly, half fill, 
sprinkle with currants and bake hot, at 400 degrees. 

Cup Cakes, 

Same mixture as above, only grease plain cups better, and warm 
them before filling; frost with vanilla frosting. 

Extra Cup Calces, 

Cream together one pound of butter and lard with two pounds of 
sugar, eight eggs, one and three-fourth pints of milk, vanilla, three 
and one-fourth pounds of flour with two ounces of baking powder. 

Pound Cup Cakes, 

Cream one pound of sugar with six ounces of butter; add six 
eggs, one at a time; one-third of a pint of milk; mix in lightly one 
and one-fourth pounds of pastry flour with one heaping teaspoonful 
of baking powder. Grease and warm large cup cake tins and fill 
them half full. Bake medium hot. Ice on bottom and sides with 
boiled cream frosting; flavor with lemon juice only. 



— 52 — 
Rook Calces. 

Two pounds of sugar, four pounds of flour, and two pounds of 
lard and butter; mix up dry. Dissolve one-half of an ounce of 
ammonia in one and one-half pints of milk and six eggs; flavor with 
lemon; mix all well and roll in long strips, one inch thick; cut in 
small pieces, lay out on tins, press down with fork; mix some with 
currants also; wash like lemon snaps. Bake at 400 degrees. 

ISxtrn Lemon Snaps. 

Two and one-half pounds of sugar and two and three-fourth 
pounds of pastry flour, rub dry with eighteen ounces of washed butter; 
mix together one pint of eggs, egg coloring, one half of an ounce of 
ammonia, one teaspoonful of lemon extract. Bake at 340 to 350 
degrees. 

Lemon Snaps, Crisp. 

Mix three pounds of powdered sugar, one pound of butter, one- 
fourth of a pound of lard, two ounces of baking powder, four and one- 
half pounds of flour; then add ten yolks or four eggs, three-fourths of 
a pint of milk, one spoonful of lemon extract, one fourth of an ounce 
of ammonia. Wash with the following: One tablespoonful of 
desiccated egg food or two eggs, a little milk, one tablespoonful of 
cornstarch, one-half of a spoonful of salt; mix all together well. 
Bake at 370 degrees on ungreased tins. 

Orange Creseents. 

Line a shallow tin with paper and fill three-fourths of an inch 
thick with the following mixture: One-half of a pound of butter and 
lard, three-fourths of a pound of sugar; add slowly five eggs, one- 
third of a pint of milk, the juice and peel of one orange; then one 
pound of flour with one-half ounce of baking powder. Bake in 
medium heat, then turn out on sugared paper. When cold, ice on 
bottom with orange;, and cut with plain round cutters in half-moon 
shape. Dip your cutter in water occasionally. This is a very 
valuable recipe, as it never fails; you can bake it very quickly, or 
slower, if thick. 



— 53 — 
Choeolate Diamonds. 

Take the preceding sheet, ice with chocolate while warm, cut in 
diamonds and on top of each set one silver dragee. 

Fried Cakes. 

Stir together eight eggs, one and one-half pounds of sugar, one- 
fourth of a pound of butter; then add one quart of milk, salt, mace, 
and four and one-half pounds of pastry flour with two ounces of 
baking powder, mix light, so it will not be tough. Have the grease 
hot before you cut them out, and turn them over before they com- 
mence to break on top. 

Doughnuts or Crullers. 

Five eggs, twenty ounces of sugar, one and one-fourth quarts of 
milk, one-fourth of a pound of butter, salt, mace or vanilla flavor; then 
add four pounds of pastry flour with two ounces of baking powder. 
Roll out the same as for fried cakes, cut out with cruller cutter, and 
pull the right upper corner through the second cut. Bake at once. 
When cold, roll in powdered sugar, cornstarch and cinnamon mixed. 
If you want to use sour milk, use one-half ounce of soda in the milk, 
and one ounce of cream of tartar in the flour. 

Raised Doughnuts. 

Dissolve one ounce of yeast in one and one-half quarts of warm 
milk; add three-fourths of a pound of sugar, three ounces of butter, 
four eggs or ten yolks, salt, mace, mix with enough flour to make 
medium soft dough (half pastry and half spring wheat flour); set away 
to raise. Push down well; let rest a short time and roll out one-third 
of an inch thick, cut with fried cake cutter; let lay a minute and fry hot. 

Christmas Mixture. 

Mix together two pounds of granulated and light brown sugar, 
eighteen ounces of butter, one quart of milk, with one teaspoonful of 
ammonia and three pounds of flour; make a dough like sugar cakes; 
cut in different shapes. 



— 54 — 

Jelly Doughnuts (Bismarts). 

The same dough as Raised Doughnuts. Break and roll up like 
biscuits, only smaller; let raise some, then flatten, lay in the center a 
teaspoonful of jam or hard jelly. Pull the dough from all sides over 
the top; set on a cloth dusted with flour and cover up well in a warm 
place. When raised to over double their size, pick up carefully, and 
fry slowly on both sides. 

Cocoanut Wafers. 

Three pounds of sugar, one and one-half pounds of butter, one- 
half pound of lard, ten eggs; mix together; flavor with vanilla. Dis- 
solve one ounce of ammonia in one pint of milk and add to the above; 
also six pounds of pastry flour, salt, and one-half pound of grated 
cocoanut. Roll out like sugar cookies; wash with egg, dip in cocoa- 
nut and bake like sugar cakes. If too stiff, add a little more milk. 

Sprin irer-le. 

Beat up well three pounds of powdered sugar with fourteen eggs; 
add two ounces of anise seed, one-half of an ounce of ammonia, and 
four pounds of flour; mix very light. First leave out some flour, as 
sometimes it does not take all of four pounds. Roll out one-half of 
an inch thick, cut in small sheets, and press them well into the 
moulds. Then cut them apart with a sharp knife and set on boards 
to dry. Dust the boards lightly with anise seed. If you want to have 
them stand over night before baking, do not set them so warm. If 
the bottom is very dry, wet the edges a little with wet fingers. Set 
on lightly greased tins; bake in cool oven. 

Spriugerle. iVo. 2. 

Stir three pounds of sugar well with the yolks of sixteen eggs, 
four whole eggs, one-half of an ounce of ammonia. Then beat the 
whites of sixteen eggs to a stiff froth and add alternately with four 
pounds of cake flour to above. Proceed as above. This is a very 
fine mixture, but must be treated carefully. 



— 55 — 



General Rules. 



Cream of tartar should always be mixed with flour; soda with milk. 

Where cream of tartar and soda are used, take two-thirds cream 
of tartar and one-third soda. 

For cookies always use pastry flour. If you have to use bread 
flour, take two ounces less and a little more soda or ammonia. 

To have cup cakes even and smooth on top, grease the cups well 
and heat first; if you want them to spring up in center, grease very 
lightly and do not warm. 

For all cookies and snaps you can use "Egg Nutrine " in place 
of fresh eggs. To equal five eggs use one ounce of " Nutrine" and 
dissolve in one-half of a pint of milk. 

Soft "A" or light brown sugar is very good for cookies, because 
they do not dry out so quick. If you have old cream, custard, 
whipped cream, etc. , left over, it can be used to best advantage in 
lemon and sugar cookies, spice cakes, etc. 



FOR XOTE& AJVO RECIRRS. 



PART VI 



/Wacaroons, Kisses, Fanc\) Cal<es, Etc. 



Almond Macaroons. 

One pound of almond paste, one pound of powdered sugar; mix 
smooth with the whites of four or five eggs; add a little vanilla and three 
ounces of granulated sugar, one-half of an egg shell full of water. 
When smooth and light, drop with bag and tube on paper. Bake in 
a moderate oven, about 350 degrees. Do not have the mixture too 
soft, so they run flat. Throw a small handful of granulated sugar 
over each sheet before you put in oven. 

Parisian Macaroons. 

One pound of almond paste, one pound of powdered sugar, the 
whites of five or six eggs and a little vanilla; one ounce of flour may 
be added. Lay out on paper and stick on top of each three split 
half almonds. Let stand one-half hour and bake. While hot, brush 
over with heavy syrup. 

European Almond Macaroons. 

One pound of blanched almonds, pounded fine or ground in a 
stone mortar, adding egg white enough to make soft; mix in it two 
pounds of fine sugar, and a little water if the almonds are very dry. 

Home-made Macaroons. 

Pound fine one pound of blanched almonds in a mortar; from 
time to time add powdered sugar and sift until one and one-half 
pounds have been used. Add one-half pound of granulated sugar 
mixed with enough white of egg to make a paste. Beat well, adding 
a few drops of water and vanilla or lemon. Proceed as above. 

(57) 



— 58 — 

Princess Macaroons, 

From Parisian mixture make macaroons, some in oblong shape 
and some round. As soon as done, dip a round or oblong stick in flour 
and press down in center of each macaroon near to the bottom. Fill 
this in with any stiff frosting, putting on top a dot of different colored 
frosting. Put your frosting in strong paper cornet and warm a little 
so it will run out freely. 

Jelly Macaroons. 

Same as above, only fill with jelly or jam and cover them with 
water icing. 

Cocoa nut Macaroons. 

Mix one and one-half pounds of powdered sugar with one pound 
of shredded or grated cocoanut; beat the whites of nine eggs very stiff, 
adding ten drops of acetic acid. Then mix in the sugar by handfuls; 
add a little vanilla. Lay out with a spoon in little cakes on greased 
tins, and bake very slowly. 

Macaroon Souffle. 

Rub smoothly three-quarters of a pound of almond paste with two 
pounds of sugar and sufficient white of egg to thin it. Beat the 
remaining whites of eighteen eggs very stiff, and mix together. You 
may add one handful of flour. Bake on greased, flour-dusted pans. 

Almond Croquette*. 

Beat up one-half pound of sugar with three eggs, one grated 
lemon peel, one cup of chopped almonds and one pound of flour. 
Roll in long strips; bake in warm oven and ice with rose (pink). 

Macaroon Slices. 

Bake strips of Vienna tea cake or Shrewsbury cake two inches 
wide. Lay a border of stiff macaroon paste on each side with bag and 
tube; soften remainder of macaroon paste with yolk of egg and one 
handful of flour. Flavor with lemon and fill in the center of strips. 
When baked, frost thin with lemon water icing. 



— 59 — 
Lteaves for Cen ter-fieees. 

Pound fine four ounces of sugar with white of egg, adding four 
ounces of almonds and two ounces of flour, making it into a smooth 
paste. Almond paste may be used in place of the almonds. Bake 
on very clean tins, which are heated and rubbed lightly with beeswax 
or butter; then set to cool. Bake very quickly and as soon as border 
browns a little, take off the tins and bend them around a thick round 
stick or rolling pin. Have moulds of tin or pasteboard; on an oval 
piece of same draw leaf-shape pattern and have same cut out, leaving 
one-half inch border around the tin; lay this on the pan and spread on 
the mixture very thinly, then remove the mould and proceed further 
until pan is full. 

Cream Puffs. 

Use one pint of water with a little milk in it and eight ounces of 
lard; let it come to a boil, cook for two minutes, then stir into it four- 
teen ounces of sifted cake flour. When all is loosened from the pan 
and dry, remove from the fire. Stir in ten to twelve eggs, two at a 
time, and a little ammonia. Bake on ungreased pans, previously- 
washed with egg. Bake rapid — 410 degrees. Cut open and fill with 
custard or whipped cream. (See Part IX.) 

Chocolate Eolairs. 

Proceed same as for cream puffs; lay out with bag and tube in 
the shape of large lady-fingers, keeping the dough a little stiffen After 
rilling them, frost over with chocolate. 

Champagne Wafers, 

Mix together six ounces of powdered sugar, three ounces of 
pastry flour, three eggs and one teaspoonful of vanilla. Beat well 
and with flat spoon or brush lay out as thin as paper the size of a 
buckwheat cake on cooking tins. Have tins well cleaned, warmed 
and rubbed over with beeswax or good butter. Set in cold place until 
wanted, allowing grease to become hard on them. When com- 
mencing to brown on the edges, lift up one corner, turn over and n .1 
over a thin stick which has first been greased. 



— 60 — 
Kisses. 

Beat very stiff the whites of eight eggs, adding one pound of 
powdered sugar — one handful at a time — and a little vanilla. Set 
with bag and tube on greased, flour-dusted tins in different shapes. 
Dust with sugar and bake in a cool oven. 

Coeonnut Kisses. 

Lay out the above mixture in rings and dust well with shredded 
cocoanut. 

Cream Kisses. 

Same mixture as above. After soaking a board about one inch 
thick in water for one hour, drain it off a little; have your different- 
shaped kisses dusted on paper, place on the wet board and bake. 
Afterwards set together, placing back on top of oven to dry out well. 

Fruit Kisses. 

Same as above, except placing a piece of French fruit glace in 
one part before you put the two together. 

Spanish Kisses. 

In place of above fruit use French cherries soaked in sherry wine, 
but well drained off. All these kisses are so light and easy to prepare 
tiiat they can be mixed in fancy cake to great advantage in different 
shapes, but you will need a bag and different tubes for them. 

Spanish Meringue. 

Mixture as above. Divide in three parts, add rose and color one 
part pink, one part add chocolate and leave the other plain. Cut off 
by spoonfuls and work a little with spoon until it is a nice smooth 
shape; drop them about the size of an egg on tins greased and dusted 
as above. 

Patiences. 

Beat one pound of egg white half stiff. Stir into it two pounds of 
powdered sugar, one and one-half pounds of cake flour, one ounce of 
vanilla; with fine tube set on waxed tins; first let dry on top, then 
bake slowly. 



— 61 — 
Vienna Lady Fingers. 

Beat the whites of fifteen eggs very stiff; add by handfuls one 
pound of powdered sugar; then the yolks of twelve eggs; and last, 
fourteen ounces of sifted pastry flour. Dust well with powdered 
sugar. Bake very hot, at 410 degrees. Flavor with lemon. When 
baked, turn upside down, wet the paper and stick two together as 
soon as softened. 

L,ady Fingers. 

Beat the whites of ei^ht eggs very stiff, and in the meantime stir 
up well the yolks of ten eggs and one-half of a pound of fine' sugar; 
flavor with lemon; then add part of the snow; then one-half of a 
pound of pastry flour; then the rest of the snow; mix, only very 
light. Lay out, dust and bake as quick as possible, say 400 degrees. 

Sponge F>rop&. 

Beat well one pound of powdered sugar with twelve eggs; then 
set in hot water bath and beat until hot; take off and stir until cold 
again; mix with two egg shells full of water, one and one-fourth 
pounds of pastry flour and one ounce of baking powder; flavor with 
vanilla. Set two together with jelly. 

Vanilla Wafer Jumbles. 

Cream together one-half of a pound of powdered sugar, one-half 
of a pound of butter and two large eggs, add a little vanilla, and last 
nine ounces of pastry flour; grease the tins lightly, dust with flour. 
Lay out on pans with bag and star tube in rings. Bake like cookies. 

CllOeolatC /u.sscs. 

Beat stiff the whites of eight eggs and add one and one-half 
pounds of powdered sugar; then set on a slow fire, beat until warm 
and firm; then mix in lightly one-fourth of a pound of dissolved 
Baker's chocolate. Lay out on dusted tins with star tube in "S" 
shape, dust with white nonpareils or coarse granulated sugar. 



— 62 — 
Vienna Fancy Mixture. 

Eight eggs and one and one-half pounds of sugar beaten together 
in a kettle over a slow fire until just warm; add one and one-fourth 
pounds of cake flour and the peel of one lemon. Lay out in different 
shapes, fingers, rings, etc., but with fine tube and very small. Let 
dry in warm room to a good crust, then bake at 340 degrees. Dust 
some with cocoanut, some with coarse sugar or chopped almonds as 
soon as laid out. This is a very fine assortment. 

Vienna A.lmond IJraps. 

Same as above, only dust well with chopped blanched almonds, 
and bake without drying them. 

A.nise Drops (Gateaux A.nissette). 

Beat up together one pound of powdered sugar and eight eggs. 
Set on a slow fire until warmed through, but not too hot; beat until 
cold again; mix with one pound of pastry flour and one handful of 
anise seed. Lay out the same as above, but dry well, to get a crust 
on the top. Do not bake too warm. 

Vienna Tea Calces. 

Wash one pound of butter in ice water and chop it fine with one 
and one-half pounds of pastry flour; mix well with one-half pound of 
powdered sugar, lemon and cinnamon; add five eggs or ten yolks; 
mix light or it will break; cut out with different shaped cutters and 
wash with eggs. Bake at 380 degrees. You can also frost the same. 

Snow Halls. 

Beat one pint of egg white until stiff, and mix well one pound of 
powdered sugar, three-fourths of a pound of cake flour, one third of 
an ounce of cream of tartar, and stir into the snow very lightly; 
add a little vanilla. With bag and tube lay out on paper. Bake 
moderately warm; stick two together with cream frosting or jelly, 
then dip the whole cakes in cream frosting or marshmallow frosting. 



— 63 — 
Cinnamon Stars. 

Four ounces of finely pounded raw almonds, the whites of 
thn e eggs; mix to a stiff dough with sufficient powdered sugar and 
two spoonfuls of cinnamon; cut out with star. Bake slowly and 
frost on top. 

Jenny L,ind Slices. 

Spread a square layer of sponge cake or gold cake half or three- 
fourths of an inch thick, with jelly; beat the whites of seven eggs very 
stiff; mix very carefully with three-fourths of a pound of powdered 
sugar and a little vanilla. Cut the sheet of cake in strips two and 
one-half inches wide and lay them on flour-dusted paper. With bag 
and large tube lay strips over the jelly the whole length of the cake. 
Lay rows close together, then other rows over them, but not so wide, 
and continue until you have brought it to a point on top. Now dip 
a sharp knife in water, and cut in slices three inches long. Dust well 
with sugar and set in the oven to brown. You may brown them and 
cut in slices afterward if you prefer. 

.ZVo n<ru tin es. 

You can cut up one or two days' old, or bake a sheet of the orange 
cresents mixture (Page 52), but it cuts better one day old; cut in slices 
two inches long by three-fourth o an inch wide ; warm up some fondant 
icing and throw the slices in, dipping them all over. 

Cocoanut ?£oii<rii tines. 

Dip all over in vanilla flavored fondant or egg icing (thinned 
down); take out with bon-bon fork and roll all over in tine shredded 
cocoanut. 

CrtHittet ~Noiitratines. 

Very fine pound cake slices dipped in vanilla fondant icing and 
rolled in roasted almonds, chopped fine. 

Printaniere JVoug-a tines. 

The same, only flavor icing with rose essence and color deep pink. 

Chocolate Xoni>;it ines. 

Dip like above in chocolate icing and roll in cocoanut. 

African IVoug-ai ines. 

Cut slices o! one or two days* old gingerbread, dip in chocolate, 

lay on top of each slice a half almond nut. 



— 64 — 

Creme Buttercups. 

Roil out a sheet of puff paste scraps or good short pie crust, about 
one-fourth of an inch thick ; spread over one half of it some boiled 
custard (as for cream puffs); cover with the other half of the paste, 
which has been pricked with a fork. Wash with egg and sprinkle with 
coarse sugar ; bake not too quick ; cut with dull scraper or back of knife 
in small squares. 

Ceylon Buttci'cti jts. 

Proceed the same as above. For filling use a stiff vanilla water icing 
mixed with cocanut. 

Kiuly Washington Buttercups. 

VERY FINE. 

Proi • d same as above. For filling mix three-fourths of a pound 
of crumbs, one-half pound of melted butter, one quart of molasses, 
three-fourths of a quart of milk or sour cream, one-half ounce saleratus; 
then add two eggs, one-half pound of currants, one-half pound of citron. 
lemon, vanilla, cinnamon; thicken with flour, not very stiff; when baked 
cover with rum icing. A variety of other cups can be made with dif- 
ferent fillings. 

General Rules. 



The addition of a little granulated sugar makes macaroons crack 
better. 

The Vienna fancy mixture is a very good one and can be made 
up in many shapes. 

Almond paste is certainly a great help, and saves time and trouble 
in making macaroons. 

For all kisses and meringue work add first some sugar by hand- 
fuls to the well beaten eggs, then the rest of the sugar; add with large 
wooden spatula, mixing it very carefully. 

For kisses, and for all purposes when it is desired to beat them 
stiff, if the whites of eggs are kept on ice two or three days before 
using, the best results are obtained, as they beat up stiffer. 

For Boston cream puffs, you can easily dispense with two-thirds 
(.1 the fresh eggs by using one and one-half ounces of dissolved 
" Egg Nutrine" instead. Take one and one-half ouncesof "Nutrine" 
in a pint measure, add enough milk to make two-thirds of a pint 
and stir up well. Then add enough fresh eggs to fill a pint measure. 



- 65 — 



PLATE I 

MACAROONS. 




Pistachio. 




Nun. 



Fruit 



Ratafia. 



Parisian. 




Nun. 





Holland. 





Soft or Soullc. 
IVoin //. HBinns "Bakers' rreasure" 




Short Tea Desserts, also for Linzer Cake Mixture. 






Designs made out of Almond Sponge Sheet or \\ alnut Sponge Sheet. 





From //. Ilianii'S "Bakers' Treasure" 



F>A RT VII. 



/Vlolasses and Honc\J Cal<es. 



In baking with molasses, baking soda or saleratus is used. There- 
fore it should be made a special point that only the very best, pure 
soda is used; and if a baker is not much of a judge, I would advise 
him to use that done up in packages, so as to get it pure. Poor soda 
makes cakes look green and taste like soap. Soda must be used with 
great care, as worse results are obtained from using too much than 
not enough. 

Molasses Ginger Srencl. 

Mix together one quart of Porto Rico and New Orleans molasses, 
one and one-half pints water, one and one-half ounces soda, twelve 
ounces lard, two eggs, two handfuls brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
ginger, one-half spoonful cinnamon and enough flour to make a soft 
dough. Fill half-full with mixture a greased pan lined with paper, and 
bake about one hour in a medium-warm oven. 

English Currant Slices. 

Mix in a piece of the above dough English currants. Roll in 
long strips, lay on greased cooky tins and bake in a warmer oven 
than for the above. Press down flat, then frost with chocolate and 
cut in narrow slices. 

Scotch Fruit Drops. 

To the above mixture add one pound currants one-half pound 
citron (cut fine), one handful granulated sugar and a little more 
molasses. Drop in small cakes, flatten them somewhat, dust with 
granulated sugar and bake rapidly. 

(67) 



— 68 — 
Spfoe Cup Calces, 

Three-quarters of a pound of crumbs, one and one-quarter quarts 
molasses, three-quarters of a pound of lard, one quart water, one and 
one-quarter ounces soda, two eggs, one pound currants; vanilla, lemon, 
cinnamon and allspice, with sufficient flour to keep in a soft dough. 
Use cup-cake moulds, having them well greased and warm, then fill 
half-full with mixture. Frost with chocolate. 

Common Spice Cup Cakes. 

From the above mixture omit the eggs and extracts; otherwise 
the same. 

'Washington Slices. 

Line a flat pan with pie crust and put in to the depth of one-half 
inch the mixture for spice cup cakes; bake in a medium-hot oven. 
Frost with water icing flavored with rum or lemon and cut in slices 
two by three inches. 

Mo/asses Pound Cake. 

Rub together three-quarters of a pound of lard and three-quarters 
of a pound of sugar and slowly add seven eggs (or one and one-half 
ounces of dissolved desiccated egg food); then mix together and add 
to this, one and one-half pints molasses, one-half pint milk and one 
and one-half ounces of soda; then add to the whole, three and one- 
half pounds of cake flour, two ounces ginger, one ounce cinnamon 
and one teaspoonful of salt. Bake medium — about 350 degrees. 

Molasses Cookies. 

Use ten ounces lard, one pint milk, one quart New Orleans 
molasses, two ounces soda, a little cinnamon, one teaspoonful salt, 
four pounds of flour and a handful of granulated sugar. Wash with 
milk and cut out, having them a fair thickness. 

Gin u;e r Cookies. 

Use one and one-quarter pounds lard, one quart milk, two quarts 
New Orleans molasses, one-half pound brown sugar, four ounces 
soda, cinnamon, four ounces ginger, one and one-half ounces salt and 
eight pounds of flour. Cut out thick and wash with milk. 



69 

Ginger Nuts* 

One quart New Orleans molasses, one pint Porto Rico molasses, 
three-quarters pint of milk (sour if possible), one and one-quarter 
pounds lard, three-quarters pound granulated sugar, six pounds soft 
flour; ginger, cinnamon, salt and two and one-half ounces of soda. 
Make a soft dough and drop with hand or spoon on the tins. 

Brandy Snaps. 

Stir together one pint of molasses and twelve ounces of butter 
with one pound of brown sugar; add one pound of soft flour and one 
ounce of cinnamon. Break in pieces the size of walnuts; press flat a 
little and drop in cooky tins. Bake in three to five minutes, and roll 
at once over a round stick. 

Freneh Ginger Nuts. 

One quart molasses, three eggs, one pint milk, one ounce soda, 
two and one-half pounds crumbs, one pound brown sugar, fourteen 
ounces lard and about four pounds of flour. Wash with egg-wash and 
dip in granulated or powdered sugar. 

JMolasses Fruit Calces. 

Beat up one pound of brown sugar and one and one-half pounds 
of butter and lard, and slowly add seven or eight eggs; then three 
pints of molasses and three pints of sour milk or water with two ounces 
of soda; then five to six pounds of soft flour, four pounds of currants, 
three pounds of seedless raisins and one pound of finely-cut citron; 
ginger, cinnamon and allspice. Bake at 350 to 360 degrees. 

Crunih or Spiee Cookies. 

Two and one-half pounds sugar, three pounds cake crumbs, one 
and one-half pounds of lard, seven eggs (or one and one-half ounces of 
desiccated egg food) and one and one-half pints of molasses; cinna- 
mon, vanilla and lemon. Then dissolve three ounces of soda in one 
and one-half pints of milk or water, a little vinegar and five and one- 
half pounds of flour. Roll out thick as ginger cookies, dip in fine 
sugar and bake at 370 degrees. 



— 70 — 
Bolivars. 

Mix two quarts molasses, one and one-half quarts water, ten 
ounces lard, four ounces soda, some spices, about eight pounds flour 
and a little salt. Roll out one-quarter of an inch thick; bake in a 
rather warm oven. 

Berkshire Cakes, 

One and one-half pints molasses, two ounces butter, one-half 
ounce soda, one-half cup milk; salt, ginger and sufficient flour to make 
dough stiff enough to roll out. Roll out one-quarter inch thick, lay 
the whole sheet upon a well-dusted pan, cut with large knife into 
finger shapes to be two and one-half by four inches in size after they 
are baked; break before they are cold; before baking, prick well with 
a fork. 

Poor Man*s Fruit Cake. 

Rub together one-half pound of brown sugar and three-quarters 
of a pound of lard; add four eggs, then one and one-half pints 
molasses, one pint sour milk, one ounce soda, three to three and one- 
half pounds flour, two pounds currants, two pounds raisins, one-half 
pound sliced citron and two pounds of finely sliced apples. 

Ginger Snaps* 

Two pounds of granulated sugar, two pounds of brown sugar, two 
and one-half quarts of New Orleans molasses and Porto Rico molasses 
mixed, one pint of water, two and one-half ounces of soda, one 
ounce of salt, three ounces of ginger, two ounces of cinnamon, one 
pound and fourteen ounces of lard, and last twelve and one-half 
pounds of soft flour and one-half ounce of ammonia. Work well 
and have it stiff. 

Cinnamon Wafers. 

Same as ginger snaps above, only leave out the ginger; take one 
ounce more of cinnamon, roll out thin and cut in fingers to be one 
and one-half by three inches after they are baked. Wash with milk 
before baking. 



— 71 — 
Honey Calces. 

Honey cakes are made to a great extent in Germany, for the 
holidays. Special kinds are identified as original in different cities 
and shipped to all countries; for instance, the delicious Niirnberger, 
the Thorner, and Basler honey cakes. The principal dough or stock 
is usually prepared in September or October and stored away in the 
cellar in tubs or barrels sawed in two; but as a general rule this first 
dough is only mixed with part of the rising ingredients, alum or 
potash, while ammonia or soda is added just before using it. 

Stoek for Honey Cakes. 

Twenty pounds of honey, ten pounds of molasses; boil up several 
times; strain through a sieve in a bowl or tub; with a little water, 
pound or grind very fine one-fourth of a pound of potash and add to 
the honey when luke warm. Then mix with enough soft cake flour 
to make a medium stiff dough. Set away in the cellar. All honey is 
better. 

German Honey Cakes and Hearts. 

Get ten pounds of above dough, into which work one ounce of 
ammonia, which has been ground and dissolved, with the yolks of 
two or three eggs. Work well or put under a dough break. First 
bake a sample at 360 degrees. Roll out one-third of an inch thick, 
wash with milk or glue water, or still better, desiccated egg food dis- 
solved. Prick the larger ones with a fork. 

A.meriean Spiced Honey Cake. 

Three pounds of boiled honey, one pound Of molasses, one-half 
pound of sugar, one-half of a pound of lard, one ounce of ammonia, 
a little soda, one pint of milk, spices; add enough soft flour to 
make a dough like ginger cookies, and bake in the same way. 

A.m.eriean Honey Cakes. 

Three pounds of boiled honey, two pounds of sugar, one-half of 
a pound of lard, four eggs, three-fourths of a quart of milk, spices, 
one ounce of ammonia; add enough soft flour and one ounce of baking 
powder to make a dough like molasses cakes. 



— 72 — 
Thiols Honey Cuke. 

Grind fine one-half of an ounce of ammonia with the yolk of one 
egg; work well into ten pounds of stock dough; roll out one-half of 
an inch thick, prick well with a fork, wash with milk, and lay on top 
blanched almonds, split in halves. Bake on heavy pans, well dusted 
with common flour. Bake slowly and cut in square pieces. Add 
cinnamon and a little caraway to the dough. 

Numberircr L,ehlcuehen. 

Stir up together well twenty-five eggs, two pounds of fine sugar, 
one-half of an ounce of ammonia, one-fourth of a pound of orange 
peel, one-fourth of a pound of almonds, one-half of a pound of 
citron, all chopped fine, and spices. Then mix in light, two and one- 
fourth to two and one-half pounds of pastry flour. With a palette 
knife lay out this dough on wafer sheets and cut in squares; lay on 
top of each a thin slice of citron. Bake medium warm. 

Swiss Honey Calces (Basler L,ecl^erle). 

Four pounds of honey (boiled), two pounds of brown sugar, one- 
half of a pound of orangeade, two pounds of citron, two pounds of 
sweet almonds (all chopped fine); nutmeg, spices, the juice and 
grated rind of one lemon, one-half of an ounce of ammonia or three- 
fourths of an ounce of potash, one-half of an ounce of soda. Pour 
the honey over this; add one glass of rum or kirsch water, and make 
with enough pastry flour into medium dough. Bake in sheets one- 
fifth of an inch thick on strong tins, well dusted with flour. Bake 
quick and frost. [Frosting. — Boil three pounds of granulated sugar 
with one pint of water to the "thread." Rub with stiff brush a little 
at a time over the sheets, until it granulates or gets white.] Warm 
the sheets again and cut with a sharp knife in small tablets, about 
one and one-half inches by two and one-half inches long. Pack five 
in a glossy white paper, lay one on top and tie all together neatly 
with narrow red tape. 

Sui>iti~ Nuts (Hard Tacks). 

Two pounds of sugar, four eggs, the yolks of eight eggs, one- 
half of a pint of milk, one ounce of ammonia, lemon. Mix with 



— 7-15 — 

enough soft flour to make into a stiff dough. Cut out very small, 
round, but very thick. Bake at 370 degrees; afterwards you may 
throw all in- boiled icing (conserve), and spread on a sieve to dry. 

Cobblestones (Pfeffernnsse). 

Mix and bake, same as above, one pound of sugar, one pint of 
molasses, spices, one-half of an ounce of soda, one-half of an ounce 
of ammonia, ginger and cinnamon, one pint of milk or water, and 
enough soft flour to make a stiff dough. 

Surrar JKlltS. 



RIH.E NUTS. 



Boil six pounds of sugar with one quart of water to thread, let 
cool ; add four eggs, one and three-fourth ounces of ammonia, one 
ounce of cardamon, one ounce of cinnamon, four eggs and sufficient 
Hour. Cut out in small round nuts, bake medium. To above dough 
the same quantity of honey cake dough can be mixed in. 

Pepperii 11 ts. 

HONEV. 

To ten pounds of scraps of honey cakes, ginger cake, etc., add 
enough warm water to make a mush, add two pounds of honey, two 
pounds of syrup ami sufficient soft flour to make soft dough. Then add 
four ounces of cinnamon, four ounces of allspice, one ounce of cloves, 
one ounce of potash and one-half ounce of ammonia, rubbed fine with 
water; then make a stiff dough. 

Jeing- for Peppemtits. 

Boil five and one-half pounds of sugar, granulated or A, to a good 
thread, with one quart of water. Put enough of the nuts in a bowl and 
pour some of the syrup over them, working trough with a spatel until 
all are covered. 

J\faearoo/i-J/ont'v Cukes. 



FOR PAiKAGES. 



One pound of almond paste worked "smooth with egg white; one 
pound powdered sugar, one-fourth of a pound of granulated sugar; 
one ounce flour, vanilla, spread with a wet knife one-third of an inch 
thick upon wafer sheets; dust with fine sugar, cut in cakes about two 
by three inches; bake in cool oven. 

Freucfi Money Cnlccs. 

FOR PACKAGES. 

Boil five pounds of honey, strain ; when cooled partly, add ten or 
twelve pounds of flour; then add one ounce of ammonia, three pounds 
of sugar, two ounces cinnamon and cloves, one ounce of cardaman, nut- 
meg, two pounds of chopped almonds, one pound chopped orangeat, 
one-half pound of citran and one-half ounce of potash. Break down 
well, roll out one-third inch thick cut with round cutter large, bake and 
set in drying oven to make brittle. Ice one half of top white, the other 
half with chocolate. 



—74— 
Parisian Honey Calces, 

FOR PACKAGES. 

One and one-half pounds of almond paste with ten eggs, one and 
one-fourth pounds of sugar, one pound of flour, one-fourth pound of 
shreded almonds, one-half pound of citron, vanilla, cinnamon, cardaman ; 
spread upon wafer sheets, cut three by one and three-fourth inches, a 
slice of citron on top of each. 

Brnimscliwoiircr Money Calces. 

Six pounds of honey, boiled, let cool ; mix with sufficient flour to 
soft dough ; two ounces of potash. Stir one pound of sugar with ten 
eggs, vanilla, cardamon, ginger, lemon, cinnamon, each one-fourth of 
a pound ; chopped almonds, citron, orangeat ; mix all well with above 
dough ; bake a small sample first ; if not light enough, add a little am- 
monia. Roll out one-fourth of an inch thick, cut in bars about three by 
one and three-fourth inches ; bake upon flour dusted pans. Ice with 
thin vanilla egg icing, with a little water and cornstarch added. Lay 
a slice of citron in center and put in oven a second to give gloss. 

Cnrlshncl Lebkuchen. 

Boil four pounds of sugar with one quart of milk to thread ; when 
partly cool add enough flour to a soft dough. Mix and add to above 
one pound of almond paste, three eggs, one ounce of ammonia, different 
spices, two lemon rinds. Roll out not too thin, roll over with marking 
roller, cut in oblong pieces ; when baked ice with chocolate. 

Dissolve two ounces of gelatine in a half pint of cream ; press 
pound or grind very fine one-fourth of a pound of potash and add to 
to make a medium stiff dough. Set away in the cellar. All honey is 
better. 



General Rules. 



Spices are always best sifted into the flour. 

Soda, ammonia or potash should always be first dissolved fn 
water or milk. 

Always use the softest winter wheat flour. Some mills make a 
specialty of such flour. 

If you have very light colored molasses (New Orleans), always 
add part Porto Rico or sugar color. 

The quality of molasses is best tried by stirring up a little of it 
with a pinch of soda. If the molasses raises up at once and foams, 
and looks brown, and smells all right, it is good. If it looks green 
when mixed, it is generally of poor quality and will smell like soap. 



FOR XOTES AAO RECIPES. 



FOlt A' OT JSS AA'D RECIPES. 



PA RT VIII. 



yeast, 5 red d, F)iscuits, Coffee Cal<es, 
puffins, etc. 



Yeast is the first factor to be looked after in preparing fermented 
bread; therefore I will give a few suggestions and formulas relating 
to its preparation and use. Where home made yeast is made, almost 
every baker has his own formula, and knows just how it will work. 
But, as a rule, given a certain recipe for stock yeast, it is necessary 
to give the whole process of baking with it. With the astonishingly 
perfect system with which compressed yeast is now delivered and 
shipped fresh to any part of the country, there is hardly an excuse for 
not using it. To bake a perfect, sweet, flaky loaf of bread every 
season in the year and every day alike, requires considerably more 
technical skill and experience than if compressed yeast is used. For 
coffee cakes and other sweet bread baking, the old fashioned stock 
yeast is almost entirely out of date. 

»ry Stack Yeast. 

Over two ounces of sweet fresh hops pour seven quarts of boil- 
ing water. Let it stand a while, then add one more quart of water 
until all the strength seems boiled out of the hops, at which point 
they commence to settle down below the surface. Mix enough of 
this liquid with eighteen ounces of bread flour and one-fourth of a 
pound of corn meal, one-fourth of a pound of rice flour, two ounces 
of crushed malt, into a smooth paste. Then add the rest of the 
liquid, and set aside. When partly cooled off, add three or four 
handfuls of white sugar and one ounce of compressed yeast, or one 
pint of fresh, ready fermented yeast to start it. Set aside, where i 
will not be disturbed for at least twenty hours. Then strain and mix 

( 77 ) 



— 78 — 

with sufficient flour into a stiff sponge. When well ripened, throw 
out on a bench dusted with corn meal, and roll or press out and cut 
in small, thick cakes, which are then dried in the fresh air, in a shady 
place. When thoroughly dry, pack away for future use. Keep away 
from heat and dampness. This is now used as mother yeast to start 
fresh ferment or new stock. One ounce to each gallon is sufficient 
in warm weather; in winter one and one half ounces may be needed. 

The Ferment. 

Wash about two quarts (six pounds) of potatoes, and boil them 
soft, with plenty of water to cover them well. In a very clean tub 
place the boiled potatoes, add one and one-half pounds of white flour, 
one handful of corn meal, and mash up fine with the potatoes. Add a 
little at a time of the boiling hot potato water. Let both now cool 
a little more, then add all the liquid from the potatoes and enough 
water to make about four gallons in all. When blood warm in 
winter or luke warm in summer, add three and one-half to five 
ounces of dry stock yeast (or two and one-half ounces of fresh com- 
pressed yeast). Set away in quiet place, not too warm, where it will 
not be shaken up or disturbed for about eight hours. In very hot 
days, you may cool it down first, with a piece of ice. If it is ready, 
you will notice on the side of the tub that it had risen some inches 
and fallen back again. If you cannot notice that, it is not ready yet. 
Then strain and set into the sponge with sufficient flour, not too stiff. 
This sponge does not need to rise the second time, like compressed 
yeast sponge. Take as soon as it has fallen once. 

Flour for Bread. 

It is certainly a poor investment to buy cheap flour for breav. 
baking. Nearly all brands of bread flour, made from healthy, straight, 
hard spring wheat, are controlled by about the same market price; 
and if any flour is offered below these figures, you should be careful 
and have it thoroughly tested before laying in a stock of it. While 
the strongest flour takes the most water, it is cheapest even if higher 
in price. But for home made bread, milk bread, etc., it is advisable 
to mix it with one-fourth to one-third of winter wheat flour (pastry). 
Do not buy a mixed flour, as it will cost you more than if you mix it 



— 79 — 

yourself. To test your flour, put a handful on a clean pasteboard, 
take a dry, smooth knife, and slide over the flour, pressing it down 
solid. If the knife is free from any particles, and the flour is smooth 
and does not show any dark streaks in it, it is all right for a good 
spring patent; still it should have a granulated appearance, not too 
much like powder. Compare different brands in this way, and you 
will understand it. 

Flour should never have a reddish or dark look when examined 
in the light, unless it is common flour which you have bought cheap 
for molasses work. It is also a mistake to set sponge or dough with 
one kind of flour as you would with another. If you have a good, 
straight, patent flour, one cake of compressed yeast is sufficient for 
three quarts of flour in summer, or two quarts in winter; but if you 
have to use up cheap, poor flour, always set sponge first and do not 
set too warm. 

Home ^lude Brent I (Without Sponge). 

In warm weather set your dough at nine o'clock in the evening, 
and in cold weather set it two hours earlier. Dissolve three to four 
ounces of compressed yeast in three quarts of warm milk, then add 
ten quarts of water, one-fourth of a pound of salt, six ounces of 
sugar, four ounces of lard, a little butter, and sufficient flour to make 
a stiff dough. In the morning cut up in pieces, and after greasing 
your hands with lard, mould up round; let it rest a little while and 
then mould over into long loaves to fit the tins. Do not let it raise 
too much, and bake about thirty minutes. 

Cottage Bread, 

Set warm sponge with four ounces of yeast and ten quarts of 
water (in winter five ounces of yeast). Set softer than ordinary 
sponge; let it raise the second time, which should not take more than 
three hours. Then add four quarts of warm milk, two quarts of water, 
one-half pound of sugar, six ounces of salt, one-half pound of lard, a 
little butter and sufficient flour to work soft; let it raise well, in sum- 
mer about one and one-half hours, in winter two hours; the bench 
should be greased before using; then proceed as above. This makes 
a very fine round loaf of bread. 



— 80 — 
Vienna Bread. 

Prepare as second recipe for bread, only use the following formula: 
One-half of a pound of yeast, six quarts of milk for dough, three- 
fourths of a pound of lard, no sugar. Let the dough stand one hour; 
roll out about fourteen inches in length; point both ends; set in cloth, 
each separate, well dusted; wash before baking; cut three times 
across. Bake on bottom of oven, or, if you have to bake on pans, 
dust them first with corn meal and heat them. 

French Stick* {-without Sponge). 

Same as the first bread dough, only leave tne sugar out. Mould 
up in long sticks; lay each separate on a cloth; bake on bottom or 
tile; wash first and cut crosswise. 

Millc Broad. 

To cottage dough add more milk, a little extra sugar; mould up, 
not too old; set on dusted cooky tins and cover over with a square 
bread pan, in bottom of which holes are punched. This bread will 
not get a hard crust. 

Graham Bread (without Sponge). 

Three ounces of compressed yeast, seven quarts of luke warm 
water, one and one-half pints of the darkest Porto Rico molasses, three 
ounces of salt, three and one-half pounds of graham flour, and 
sufficient wheat flour to make medium dough. Let it stand over 
night; in the morning throw it on the board, cut in pieces and mould 
up at once. Let it raise well in the tins and bake slow. 

Graham Bread {with Sponge). 

Take two quarts of sponge from the cottage bread, add one quart 
of warm water, one-half pint of dark Porto Rico molasses, three 
ounces of salt, two quarts of graham flour, and enough wheat flour to 
make a soft dough. Let it stand about two hours. Mould and bake 
as above. 



— 81 — 
Boston Brown Bread with Yeast. 

One pint of corn meal, one-half of a pint of rye meal, one-half of 
a pint of graham flour, one-half of a pint of wheat flour; mix all with 
one teaspoonful of salt. Dissolve one yeast cake with one-half of a 
cup of molasses and one quart of buttermilk or sour milk and one- 
half of a teaspoonful of soda. If fresh milk is used, take a little more 
yeast and no soda; mix all well, and if too stiff add a little water. 
Make no stiffer than corn muffins; put in well greased, deep tins, 
with cover; do not fill them half full. Set in a pan with one and one- 
half inches of water, so as to steam or boil from bottom, or bake in a 
steamer. Bake three or four hours in a medium oven; after two 
hours cool down the oven to 360 degrees. 

Boston Brown Bread with Baking Powder. 

Ingredients are the same as above, only use in place of the yeast 
two tablespoonfuls of good baking powder. 

American Rye Bread. 

American bakers generally use the same formula as for the gra- 
ham bread, only they take rye flour in place of graham. German 
bakers make a separate dough and bake it like Vienna bread. 

French Rolls. 

In the evening set a stiff dough of three ounces of compressed 
yeast, four quarts of luke warm milk, three quarts of water, two 
ounces of salt, two ounces of sugar, four ounces of lard, four ounces 
of butter and sufficient flour (not too strong). In the morning, push 
down the dough, break off a little smaller than biscuits, roll up, let it 
spring a little, then press down well in center with a thin rolling pin, 
wash with a little melted butter, and double over. Set to raise and 
bake hot; 400 degrees. 

Raised Biscuits. 

You can take either of the bread doughs; add a little extra milk 
and lard or butter, and roll up round. 



— 82 — 
Finger Rolls or L,ady Washington Rolls. 

Dissolve two ounces of compressed yeast in two quarts of warm 
milk; add one-half of a pound of lard and butter, six ounces of sugar, 
two and one-half ounces of salt, another quart of milk, one quart of 
water, and sufficient flour (mixed) to make medium dough. Work 
well and set to raise about two and one-half hours, in a warm place. 
Break off in small pieces, mould up round and cover over to let them 
raise some. Then mould over in finger-shape and set close together 
on greased tins, until light; wash with egg, and bake. 

Parker House Rolls. 

Dissolve three ounces of compressed yeast with two quarts of 
milk; add two ounces of sugar, one ounce of salt, four ounces of 
butter, two ounces of lard, four eggs or ten yolks, and enough flour 
to make medium dough; wash well; let raise two hours, push down 
and set away another hour; make up in shape to suit yourself, let it 
raise, wash with egg, and bake quickly. 

Tea Biscuits, 

Three and one-fourth pounds of flour, three ounces of baking 
powder, one and one-half ounces of salt, all sifted together; rub dry 
six ounces of lard in the flour and mix with one and one-fourth quarts 
of milk into a light dough. Roll out at once one-half of an inch 
thick, cut out, set close together, wash with milk; first prick with a 
fork, and bake hot; 400 degrees. 

Newport Rolls. 

Same as tea biscuits, only add two ounces of butter, roll a little 
thinner, cut out, wash with butter and double over like French rolls; 
let stand a few minutes, wash with egg and bake. 

Graham Gems. 

Break like biscuits from either of the graham bread doughs. 
Roll up like biscuits, set to raise in gem tins and do not bake too hot. 



— 83 — 



Corn Afuffins. 



Grease and heat well deep gem tins and fill over half full of this 
mixture: Six ounces of cornmeal, four ounces of sugar, four ounces 
of lard, four eggs; mix all light; add one pint of milk and eighteen 
ounces of pastry flour with one and one-half ounces of baking powder, 
one ounce of salt. If too stiff add a little more milk. Bake hot. 

Johnny Cake. 

The same mixture as above, only add two ounces more of sugar 
and two ounces of butter and bake in long, flat tins. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

Dissolve one-half of a yeast cake in one-half of a cup of warm 
water; add one quart of milk, one teaspoonful of salt, a little corn- 
meal, a handful of wheat flour, and enough buckwheat flour to make 
a stiff batter. Set away over night. In the morning stir up well, 
add a little molasses and bake on hot griddle. If too stiff, add a little 
milk and a little sugar. 

English Wheat JMuffins. 

Mix one yeast cake in one-half of a cup of warm water, one cup 
of milk, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, a little salt, enough flour to make a stiff batter; let it raise, 
then add three eggs; beat all well; fill in muffin rings. Bake hot. 

Wheat Cakes. 

Beat up well, two eggs, one-half of a teaspoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, one-half of a cup of milk, and stir again. Mix 
with sufficient flour and one teaspoonful of baking powder to make 
into a soft batter; grease the griddle well, and bake quickly. This 
seems to be very rich, but they can be poured out thinner and make 
more cakes. 

Waffles. 

Set over night one-half of a yeast cake in one-half of a cup of 
luke warm milk, with enough pastry flour and one pint of milk to 
make a stiff batter. In the morning add three or four eggs beaten 
up well, a handful of sugar, and a little salt to the batter. Beat well 
and bake in hot waffle irons; a little nutmeg to flavor. 



— 84 — 
Coffee Cakes. I. 

Set soft sponge with seven ounces of yeast, three quarts of warm 
milk, one quart of water, and enough flour. Beat up well, set in warm 
place to raise. When it breaks, add three-fourths of a pound of 
butter and lard, one and one-half pounds of sugar, eight to ten eggs 
(one pint of egg yolks is best), lemon and mace, two ounces of salt, 
and three pints more of milk. Work well and smooth, but not too 
stiff. Let raise one or two hours, push down and mould up in 
different shapes. 

Buns. 

Roll up like biscuit, press flat, dip in coarse sugar, set to raise, 
bake medium warm. (The eggs may be omitted if desired.) 

Currant Buns. 

The same as above, only roll out a piece about ten inches wide, 
sprinkle with currants and cinnamon, double over from both sides, 
cut with scraper in finger shape, set the cut side up, close together; 
let raise, bake warm, and frost thick with vanilla icing. 

Hot Cross Buns. 

The same dough as for buns, only when half raised press each 
down crosswise with same cutter and wash with butter and dip in 
sugar, or ice them after they are baked. 

Cinnamon Cake. 

Same dough as above. Take about one pound of the dough and 
roll out eight by ten inches; wash with butter; dust well with cinna- 
mon and fine sugar. 

Strcusscl Kitchen, 

Same as above, only cover well with the following mixture: One 
pound of cake flour, one spoonful of cinnamon, one-half pound of 
fine sugar; add five ounces of good melted butter, rub together well 
and press through coarse sieve. 



— 85 — 
Coffee Cate Dough. JJ. 

In six quarts of milk and two quarts of water dissolve seven to 
eight ounces of compressed yeast, one pound of fine sugar, lemon 
and mace, one and one-half ounces of salt; mix with enough mixed 
flour to make into a soft dough, beat well and set to raise. Mean- 
while cream one and one-fourth pounds of butter with two pounds of 
sugar; add one pint of eggs (or one pint of yolks is best); add slowly 
the other dough, beating well. If too soft, add more flour, but do 
not make too stiff. Let raise again. 

Turk Heads. 

Weigh off the above in pieces about fourteen ounces, mix in 
some raisins, and lay in well buttered Turk-head tins. You may 
sprinkle some sliced blanched almonds in the bottom of the moulds 
first. 

Coffee Wreaths. 

From the above dough cut even pieces, roll out in long and thin 
strips, braid three together and form into a round wreath. Set to 
raise; wash with egg; bake hot and ice with thick vanilla icing. 

Zwieback. 

Roll out the above dough like small fingers; set close together; do 
not let it raise too much; bake light; let stand one day, then cut each 
biscuit in two with a sharp knife, roast well brown on both sides, and 
dip in cinnamon or vanilla sugar. 

yJelly Doughnuts (Bismarks). 

Set to raise a soft sponge with two ounces of yeast, one pint of 
milk, and enough flour. As soon as it breaks, add four to five eggs, 
one-fourth of a pound of lard or butter, one-half of a pound of sugar, 
lemon and mace, one pint of warm milk and sufficient flour to make 
a soft dough; beat well and set to raise; push down; let raise again, 
then dust bench well with flour; break in small biscuits, roll them up, 
let raise a little, press flat; lay in center of each some stiff jelly (or 
better, jam or marmalade); pull up from the sides over the jelly, and 



- 86 - 

pinch together well. Set on a cloth well dusted with flour, the 
pinched side on bottom, cover over and let them raise well. Bake in 
hot grease, slower than fried cakes. Roll, when cool, in cinnamon 
sugar. 

French Crullers. 

Boil one pint of milk and water with six ounces of lard for two 
minutes; then add quickly fourteen ounces of pastry flour, let it stand 
five minutes, then mix in slowly ten to twelve eggs one handful of 
sugar, vanilla, and a little salt. Keep dough just like eclairs; fill in 
bag with star tube. Run out on greased paper in rings. Lay the 
paper with rings on the bottom in your hot grease, until all the rings 
are loosened. Bake slow, and well through. Dust with sugar and 
serve with sauce or syrup. 

German Rye "Bread. 

GENUINE. 

The principle poini is a sound sour stock and good Straight rye 
flour. Take two pounds of breadsponge in bowl, two quarts of warm 
water and sufficient rye flour to make medium stiff dough. Let rest five 
hours ; then add sixteen quarts of lukewarm water, brake the sponge 
with it well and add enough of straight rye to medium second sponge, 
which should be ready in three hours. Then add one pound of salt, 
three-fourths of a quart of tepid water, and make into dough with more 
rye flour. After a short rest cut up into loaves, work each one well, roll 
up, and when in shape set away in dusted straw baskets (round or 
long). Wash over with water. When half raised prick with wooden 
stick. W'hen ready for the oven wash over again when on the peel. 
Oven must have sharp heat, fresh fired. Bake at least one hour 



87 



General Rules. 



Keep yeast always in cool, dry place. 

One teaspoonful of salt is enough to each quart of flour. 

For all coffee cakes take one-third of cake flour, what is called 
blended flour. 

If you have little pieces of dough left over, cover with cold water, 
and use the next day for sour dough in rye bread. 

For all coffee cakes desiccated egg food can be substituted for 
fresh eggs satisfactorily. Use one ounce for every five eggs. 

Bread, rolls or biscuits, if washed with butter immediately after 
baking, will shine nicely and will be softer than if not washed. 

Common buns and coffee cakes can also be made from bread 
dough. Add some sugar and butter, and work well. Let rest awhile; 
add some coloring, cinnamon and lemon or vanilla. 

If you want to keep compressed yeast fresh for a long time, put 
it in a glass or stone jar and fill with water. When you want to use 
some, pour off the water slowly, take out what yeast you need, and 
pour fresh water over the rest. 



FOR NOTES AiVO RECIPES. 



PART IX 



Icings, Fillings, Fanc\J Cal<es, 
Colors, etc. 



Water Icing. 

XXXX confectioner's sugar is the best sugar for icings. Although 
a trifle higher in price it makes a cheaper frosting because it takes up 
more water. Plain water icing is made simply by mixing enough 
sifted powdered sugar with cold water, adding flavor as desired. 
After cakes are iced, set in the oven a few seconds by the open door. 
Another method of making water icing is to use boiling hot water in 
place of cold water, and do not set in the oven to dry. 

American Vanilla Cream Frosting. 

Mix one pound XXXX powdered sugar with egg white and four to 
five drops acetic acid or half a teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Beat 
light, then add one more pound of sugar and sufficient boiling water 
to thin it as desired; one teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Walnut Frosting. 

To above icing add one-half pint of walnut meats chopped fine. 

Afarshmallow Filling. I. 

Take four and one-half pounds of granulated sugar and one 
quart of water; dissolve over a good fire, then add one-half of a 
pound of glucose and boil to a very light ball (242 degrees). In the 
meantime beat one pint of egg white very stiff and then pour in the 

(89) 



— 90 — 

sugar in a light stream, still beating. Then pour in one-half of a 
pound of dissolved gum arabic (a thin solution) or gum Senegal, and 
two ounces of vanilla. Keep on beating a little while longer. If a 
large mixture, set in hot water bath, so it will not get too stiff before 
it is all used. You can flavor and color to taste. 

Marshmallow Filling. II. 

One-half of a pound of gum arabic or Senegal dissolved in a good 
pint of water, strain in a kettle and add one-half of a pound of XXXX 
loaf sugar; set on a slow fire, stir until reduced and thick. Beat up 
stiff in a bowl two ounces of white egg food dissolved in one pint of 
warm water, with enough powdered sugar and one-half of an ounce 
of cream of tartar; add the gum syrup slowly and a little plain syrup 
if still too stiff. Flavor with neroli oil, which is the right flavor for 
marshmallow. If you have no egg food, take one pint fresh egg white. 

Boiled Chocolate Frosting. 

One and a half pounds of sugar and one pint of water set on a 
moderate fire. Dissolve four ounces of baker's chocolate and stir in 
the syrup. Let boil until to a thread (236 degrees); wash down on 
the sides, and stir occasionally. Then sprinkle with a little cold 
water, and boil again to the thread. Then take off the fire. Rub 
with the spatula against the sides of the kettle until it commences to 
turn light and creamy. Take up more sugar, and so continue, until 
all is turned lighter. Let it stand a minute, and as soon as there 
forms a light crust on top, it is done. Stir through once more and 
use at once. Set the frosted goods in the oven for a second. 

American Chocolate Frosting. 

Mix two pounds of powdered sugar with sufficient hot water to 
make it the desired consistency. Meantime dissolve five ounces of 
chocolate, cut up fine, with two ounces of butter, in the oven. Stir 
until it is all smooth, and let it run slowly into the other sugar. 
Keep stirring it; add warm water and a little vanilla. This frosting 
can be kept in a cool place a good while, only warm it up well 
before using. 



— 91 — 

Fondant for Frosting. 

Boil five pounds of granulated sugar, one pound of glucose and 
one quart of water to a light ball (242 degrees). As soon as it com- 
mences to boil, wash down on the sides, and cover. Do not let it 
boil too slowly. Then sprinkle your marble slab with ice water, and 
pour the syrup on it. When partly cooled off, work with large 
wooden spatula until it is all creamed and hard. Have a clean tub 
ready, throw the fondant in and pound it down solid until it is all 
smooth; cover over with a wet cloth. Before using melt it on stove 
or in hot water bath, adding a little plain syrup, and flavor to taste. 

Coffee Icing. 

Boil four ounces of best Java coffee, ground, with one pint of 
water down to half a pint, keeping it covered. Then strain and add 
two tablespoonfuls burned sugar color and three pounds of fondant. 
Stir over the fire until soft and smooth. Use at once. 

Pistachio Icing. 

Peel one ounce of pistachio nuts and pound them to a paste in a 
stone mortar; mix with fondant and melt. 

Rose, Almond or Strawberry Icing. 

Dissolve fondant over a fire with a little syrup, the proper extract 
to flavor, and coloring. Or mix XXXX confectioner's sugar with hot 
water, and add flavor and coloring. 

L,emon Frosting. 

A very fine frosting for sponge cakes and cup cakes is made by 
adding the juice of one or two lemons to fondant or water icing. 

Gelatine Icing. 

Dissolve one ounce of good gelatine in one pint of water, mix 
with four pounds of confectioner's powdered sugar, and beat up like 
meringue with an egg beater; add vanilla or lemon. 



— 92 — 

Snow-fluke* Icing. 

Dissolve two ounces Quaker Icing Powder in one pint of hot 
water ; add five or five and one-half pounds of fine sugar, one ounce of 
•glycerine; beat all very light. This icing gets very light and keeps soft. 

Royal Icing. 

For decorating. Beat up the whites of three eggs with sufficient 
XXXX confectioner's sugar and eight drops of acetic acid and a little 
bluing. Have everything — bowl, spatula, etc., perfectly clean. 

Boiled Frosting for Honey Cukes. 

Boil six pounds of granulated sugar with one quart of water to a 
thread (236 degrees). Rub with stiff brush over the top of the cakes, 
commencing on one corner, dipping the end of brush in the sugar, 
but do not disturb sugar in the kettle more than necessary, so it will 
not die off too soon. Rub hard and quick over the cakes, until it 
creams. 

Cream for Filling. 

Bring two quarts of milk to a boil with five ounces of sugar. 
Stir into this quickly two ounces of corn-starch, stirred smooth with 
two eggs, and one teaspoonful of vanilla. As soon as it thickens, take 
off from the fire. 

Apple Filling. 

Mix together the juice and grated rind of one lemon and two 
peeled apples grated, with sufficient powdered confectioner's sugar. 
Stir over fire until it boils down a little, then add more sugar until 
stiff enough. 

L,emon-, Jelly Filling. 

Boil one pint of water, the juice of three lemons and one-half 
pound of powdered sugar. Stir into it slowly two and one-half 
ounces of corn-starch dissolved in a little water, a pinch of salt, and 
one grated lemon peel. As soon as it starts to thicken, take off from 
the fire, and spread on the cakes, while warm. Juice of oranges, 
canned apples, or peaches, can be used upin the same way. 



— 93 — 

Whipped Cream. 

To beat up cream well, it should have been standing twentv- 
four hours, undisturbed — what is called double cream: To beat it up 
everything must be very clean and cold. Beat ilp slowly and easily, 
then, when done, add to every quart five ounces of powdered sugar 
and one teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Red Coahinenl Color. 

Mix in stone or porcelain basin one-fourth of an ounce of cochineal 
ground up very fine, one-fourth of an ounce of burnt alum, one- 
fourth of an ounce of cream of tartar, and pour over this one pint of 
hot rainwater; then add one-fourth of an ounce of salts of tartar; mix 
and strain next morning; then add one-half of an ounce of gum arabic. 

Yellow Coloring. 

Saffron, boiled down, with a little sugar and rainwater, and then 
filtered through a glass funnel, is the old style of coloring. But now 
there is such a number of colorings, liquid and paste, on the market, 
that it does not pay to make it yourself. 

Blue Coloring. 

Generally ultramarine is used, but it must be handled carefully, 
being very strong. For painting ornaments and toys it is mixed with 
a little gum arabic and sugar solution. 

Colored Sugar Sand. 

Sift coarse sugar through a fine sieve to separate all the fine dust. 
Warm the coarse sugar a little in a kettle, make a cavity in the center 
and pour into it a little coloring; mix with a little of the sugar first, 
gradually rubbing in more of the sugar, until all is mixed evenly. On 
a heavy baking tin lay strong paper, spread the sugar over it, warm 
well through in oven, stir up thoroughly, warm again, and when per- 
fectly dry, sift through a coarse sieve and pack in glass jars, but do 
not expose to the sun. 

Lemon and Orange Sugar. 

Grate nice, hard lemon or orange skins (not too deep — only the 
yellow part), and mix with sufficient powdered sugar and set away in 
air-tight jars. 



— 94 — 

Vanilla Sug-ar. 

Cut up very fine two or three sound vanilla beans and weigh off 
one pound of cut lump sugar. Put the vanilla with part of the sugar 
in a mortar and pound fine. Then sift it, put the remaining vanilla 
back in the mortar, add more sugar, pound fine again, sift, and so 
keep on, until all is beaten to fine powder. Then pack away air-tight. 

Orange and Lemon Zest. 

To get the very finest aroma of the fruit without any bitter taste 
to it, rub hard lemons or oranges over lumps of sugar. As soon as 
the sugar is covered with the skin, scrape it off with a sharp knife 
and rub over it again. So keep on, until the outside skin of all the 
lemons or oranges is rubbed off. This is especially fine flavoring for 
ice creams, cremes and icings. 

Dominoes, 

Bake a sheet about three-fourths of an inch thick of sponge or 
gold cake mixture (see Parts IV. and V.). Let it stand one day, if 
possible, then cut in slices two inches wide. Turn the bottom up and 
spread thin with jelly. Now roll a piece of marzipan, very thin, cut 
in same size strips, to cover the top of slices, and frost over very thin 
with water icing. Now, with a sharp knife cut in blocks again the 
size of domino blocks. Let them stay close together; draw a line 
through the center with red icing, then with finer tube draw two lines 
with white royal icing on the sides, and ornament with dots of choco- 
late to represent the numbers on the dominoes. 

Potatoes. 

Take small bits of sponge cake, rub with a little thin jelly, cover 
with a thin sheet of marzipan, brush over with a little sugar color 
and roll in grated chocolate. Then, with a pointed stick, prick some 
holes in them, and stick small bits of sliced almonds in, to represent 
sprouts of the potatoes. 

Apples, Pears, etc. 

These can be made out of sponge cake (lady finger mixture). 
With bag and tube lay out in the shape of the fruit, and bake a nice 
brown. When well done, set two together with apple or apricot 
marmalade, and frost some with white, some with yellow icing. 



— 95 — 
Pears and Apples of Afcringue. 

Take a very thin layer of sponge cake, spread it with marmalade 
and cut out with round or oval cutter. Now prepare a good meringue 
(as for Kisses, see Part VI.) and lay out in the shape of apples, pears, 
peaches, etc., and bake on wet boards. Where there is a good crust 
on top, lay one on a piece of the sponge cake, same shape, and 
sprinkle a very little with red coloring. Then frost very thin with 
transparent water icing, and stick on the end a whole clove for the 
core, and on the other end a thin stick of citron for the stem. 

Almond Souffle Kisses. (Auflauf). 

Pound very fine two ounces blanched almonds with the white 
of one egg and sufficient XXXX confectioner's sugar. Then add the 
whites of three more eggs, beaten up a little first, and enough more 
fine sugar to make a stiff paste. Roll out one-fifth of an inch thick, 
and cut out in stars, rosettes, rings, etc., and set on flour-dusted tins. 
Let dry a few hours, and bake very cool. They will raise over an 
inch high and come up straight, if oven is cool enough. Then frost 
with thin water icing or royal icing, and sprinkle with colored sugars, 
or paint them. 

Vanilla and Rose Souffleo 

The same as above, only omit the almonds and add a few drops 
of alcohol and a little vanilla or rose and red coloring. 

American Marzipaiio 

Cut up two pounds of almond paste in thin slices and spread on 
candy marble, which you first sprinkle with ice water. While this is 
being done, boil five pounds of sugar with one quart of water and a 
half pound of glucose to the ball (245 degrees), and pour over the 
paste. Let it cool off, then rub with spatula until it is all smooth and 
creamed. Work all in one lump and cover up. This is very fine for 
fancy bonbons and fancy hand-modeled cakes. 

Sugar Couleur [Burned Sugar). 

Dissolve one pound powdered sugar on a good fire, stirring it. 
Let it get black, until a thick, heavy smoke ascends and it foams up. 
Then pour in a pint of water and stir until all is dissolved again. 



— 96 — 
Croquant or ^Nougat. 

Melt in a kettle one and a half pounds of white sugar without 
water, stirring it occasionally. Then add one pound of thin sliced or 
chopped blanched almonds, which you have first heated. Mix well 
and quickly now, and roll out on well oiled marble slab, and cut out 
or mould in any shapes desired to make pyramids, centre pieces, etc. 

Clear Caramel. 

FOR SPUN SUGAR ORNAMENTS, FLOWERS, ETC. 

Boil two and a half pounds of loaf sugar with a pint of water 
(short measure) and a pinch of cream of tartar to the crack (280 de- 
grees). Take off the fire and keep in hot water bath. Now dip in 
your spoon and run out the design as drawn on well oiled marble 
slab, or for flowers dip in your lead moulds. 

Rock Sugar (Honeycomb). 

FOR DECORATING. 

Boil two and a half pounds of granulated sugar to light crack 
(285 degrees) and stir into it one good tablespoonful of royal icing 
(with acetic acid). It will foam up in a minute, and must be poured 
as quickly as possible on an oiled slab, as it will turn hard in a second 
afterwards. If you want to get different shades to represent rocks, 
you can make up a spoonful of different colored frosting before adding 
to the caramel 

Pure Baking Powder,, 

Mix together two pounds of pure cream of tartar, one pound of 
baking soda, one-half of a pound of corn-starch, one-half pound of 
flour. Sift seven or eight times through a fine sieve. 

Cheap Baking Powder,, 

One-half of a pound of cream of tartar, one-half of a pound of 
saleratus, three ounces of tartaric acid, one ounce of salt, two ounces 
of ammonia, one pound of corn-starch or flour. Sift fine ten times. 



Victoria Biseuits. 

Four pounds of flour, one-half pound of cornstarch, four ounces of 
sugar, three ounces of butter, one and one-half pints of eggs, one-half 
gill of milk. Rub butter in flour. Beat sugar, eggs, etc., make bay :n 
flour, add the rest and mix all into smooth dough. Roll out very thin, 
cut with round cutter, dock well, bake in hot oven. Very fine to serve 
with coffee. 

Vanilla Crisp. 

Eighty-five pounds of fine sugar, thirty-five pounds 01 butter and 
lard, six ounces of vanilla, one gallon of honey, five and one-half gal- 
lons of sour milk, one and one-half pounds of ammonia, one pound of 
salt, one and one-half pounds of soda, one barrel of flour. Mix up well, 
pass through rollers twice, cut with small fancy cutte: ; bake like cook- 
ies. 

Pineapple Cakes. 

Same as above. Add 5 ounces of essence of pineapple, no vanilla. 
Cut with square fluted cutter. 

Lunch Cracters. 

VERY FINE. 

Rub three pounds of hard lard into fifty pounds of hard winter wheat 
flour, add one and one-half ounces of salt, two gallons of milk, with five 
ounces of soda, one pound of sugar and four ounces of cream tartar. 
Work smooth, roll thin, dock well and bake upon wire screens. 

Launch Wafers. 

lt CHFAP. 

Rub dry into four pounds of cake flour one-half pound of butter, 
one-half pound of lard. Add to this three-fourth of a pint of milk, two 
eggs, one ounce of ammonia, peach essence and mix into light dough, 
stiff. Roll out and cut like lemon snaps. 

Water Biscuits. 

CRACKERS. 

Two quarts of water, luckewarm; 16 pounds of flour, one-half ounce 
of yeast; mix stiff and let stand over night. In the morning add one- 
half pound of shortening, two and one-half ounces r.f salt, one ounce 
of soda. Mix very good and let rest for one or two hours. Bake smooth, 

pass through rollers, cut out , dock well with fork or docker 

and bake on dry pans in good hect. 

Butter Biscuits. 

ENGLISH. 

Rub one and one-fourth pounds of butter in six pounds of flour, 
fine ; add one-half ounce of salt, one quart of milk or water, make 
smooth dough, let rest a wile, break well, roll out one-fourth inch thick, 
dock well, cut out round, bake in medium heat. 

*J umhles 

FOR MACHINE 

One hundred and fifteen pounds of flour, sixty-five pounds of 
sugar, six gallons of milk, four and one-half ounces of ammonia, one- 
half pound of soda, one and one half pounds of cream tartar, four quarts 
of eggs, twenty-five pounds shortening, two ounces of lemon. 



— ( .tS— 

SPECIAL RECIPES FOR Jiaa NUTRINE AND 
MARSH MALLOW I CI LINE. 

Paris Buns. 

Very fine and delicious. Rub together dry five and one-half pounds- of 
cake flour, two ounces of cream of tartar, one-fourth pound of butter, 
three-fourths pound of lard. Then make a bay in centre and put in two 
and one-half pounds of sugar and one and one-half pints dissolved Egg 
Nutrine ; then add one and one-fourth quarts milk and one ounce of soda, 
flavor with vanilla, and mix with odier ingredients light; then add one 
pound of currants and drop like drop cakes on pan. Wash with egg. and 
dust on top with powdered sugar. Eake hot. 

.Telly Rail. 

CHEAP. 

Two pounds sugar, three-fourth pint of Egg Nutrine, one-half pint of 
eggs, two-thirds ounce of soda. Beat all a few minutes with your hands, 
in a bowl; then add one pint of milk, lemon; and last three pounds of 
cake flour with one and one-third ounces of cream of tartar. Spread on 
level cooking tins, well greased, no paper on them. Bake hot. 

I)oui>lmuts or Crullers. 

Two and three-fourths pounds of sugar, one-half pound of butter, 
three-fourths of a pint of Egg Nutrine, little salt, mace, mix together. 
Then add two and one-fourth quarts of milk, and eight and one-half 
pounds of cake flour, sifted, with four ounces of baking powder. 

Coo/c/cvs. 

In all cookies Egg Nutrine will do the work of the eggs, use in same 
quantity as you would eggs, satisfactory. But, using your own recipe, 
use half Egg Nutrine and half eggs for first few batches. 

Lemon J*io l^illiiiix. 

Boil together two quarts of water, one and one-fourth pounds of 
sugar. Dissolve four ounces of corn starch in little water, add three- 
fourths of a pint of Egg Nutrine (one and one-half ounces), four lemon 
juice, two lemon rinds, and stir all in boiling syrup until it thickens. 
Pinch salt may be added. 

Halters' Marshmalloyv Pilling. 

MADE FROM MARSHMALlOW ICILINE. 

Dissolve one pound of Marshmallow Iciline (Bakers) in one gallon 
of lukewarm water (not scalding). See that it is thoroughly dissolved. 
Put this in beater with sixteen pounds of XXXX sugar and from four to 
6 pounds of glucose ; then mix all together with the hand ; then beat for 
twenty or thirty minutes according to the speed of beater until light. 
Will never get tough or gummy. 



/Miscellaneous Recipes. 

Guidon Rod Cake. 

TO SELL AT 15 CENTS EACH. 

Cream together one pound of fine sugar with ten ounces of 

butter and one and a half pints eggs, one pennyweight of soda, one 

teaspoonful of vanilla, twenty ounces of cake flour, two pennyweights 

of cream of tartar. When baked, ice the sides with orange water 

icing. 

Golden Rod Cake. 

TO SELL AT TEN CENTS A PIECE. 

With one pound of butter and lard cream one and one-half pounds 
of sugar, ten eggs, two-thirds of a pint of milk, juice and grating of 
two oranges, two pounds of cake flour, one ounce of baking powder. 
Mix and bake like above. Ice some with orange, some strawberry, 
some chocolate. On one side ornament the name "Golden Rod'' 
in different colors; that is, if cakes are frosted chocolate, ornament 
in yellow; if iced yellow, ornament in pink or white, etc. 

Lemon Twist. 
Mix well, dry, two pounds of hard butter with two and three- 
fourth pounds of cake flour, twenty ounces of sugar, and lemon flavor; 
add twelve eggs and the juice of four lemons; mix very light to a stiff 
dough. Set in ice box to harden. Roll in long, thin strips and twist 
them. Cut in slices, wash with eggwash, dip in coarse sugar and 
bake in a good heat. 

Orange Slices. 

The moulds for these can be bought from any supply house. 

They are not to be greased, but the slices cut loose with a sharp knife 

from the moulds. Beat very stiff three-fourths of a pint of egg whites ; 

add by handfuls one-half pound sugar; then twelve egg yolks, and 

last, nine ounces of cake flour. Orange flavor. Lay out witli bag 

and tube; bake medium warm. When cold, ire with orange water 

icing 

I f)9 I 



— 100 — 

Alelons. 

Same mixture as for orange slices. Set slices together with jelly. 
Cover all over with yellow or green icing, stick a slice of green citron 
in the top for stem. 

Stork JVestvS (Ribbon Czike). 

Sift two pounds of strong flour in a bowl, make a dent in center 
in which you break four eggs and two yolks, a pinch of baking soda, 
one-fourth ounce ammonia, one-half gill milk, salt, three ounces 
powdered sugar, a little mace, one-half pound melted butter, and one 
glass of brandy or rum. Make all into a stiff dough as for noodles. 
Set away in a cool place for about one hour, covered with a damp 
cloth. Then roll out very thin about four feet long and two feet 
wide; cut with pie jigger in strips one inch wide. Wet the strips on 
ends and in center with egg. Take about five strips up at a time, 
press the ends so they will hold together; sling around in different 
directions and bring the ends on bottom so that all make a loose ball. 
Set on a dusted board; let stand a while, then cook in hot cruller 
grease to a fawn color, not too brown. Break the bottoms out of 
some tin cans and set in the kettle to fry the balls in; this is done to 
hold the balls together. When cool dust with cinnamon sugar. 

Apple Snow Cake. 

Bake regular layers and fill with this filling: Grate a hard, sour 
apple (peeled) in a deep plate; add one-half pound of fine sugar and 
then one egg white. Beat all up well about fifteen minutes with 
silver work or small beater. When almost done you can add one- 
fourth ounce of dissolved gelatin. Fill the layers with it and cover 
top also. 

Belgrade Almond. Sliees. 

Five and one-half pounds of brown sugar, three and one-half 
pounds of butter, one quart of eggs, three-eighths of an ounce of 
ammonia, three-eighths of an ounce of soda, one-half pint of milk, 
three and one-fourth pounds sifted cake crumbs, one pound of raw 
almonds, six and one-fourth pounds soft flour, one-half pound fine 
desiccated cocoanut. Flavor with cinnamon and allspice. Make 
stiff dough. Roll in one and one-half inch thick rolls. Set on 
greased pans, press flat, wash with egg, and bake medium warm. 
Cut in slices one inch wide. 



— 101 — 

Fig Cake. 

Cream one pound of butter and lard with one and one-half pounds 
of sugar, add one pint egg whites, which first partly beat, one pint 
of milk with one-third of an ounce of soda, two and one-fourth 
pounds of flour, two-thirds of an ounce of cream of tartar, lemon. 
Bake in layer tins, spread with fig marmalade between and on top, 
then ice over with water icing flavored with lemon juice. 

California Fig Tarts. 

Mix together like cookie dough three pounds of granulated sugar, 
one and one-fourth pounds of lard, one pint of eggs, one quart of 
milk, one and one-half ounces of baking powder, six pounds of cake 
flour, and lemon flavor. Roll out a piece one-fourth of an inch thick, 
cut out with round small cutter, lay on pans. Now roll as many pieces 
from which cut out the centers so as to get rings. Bake all in a 
warm oven, spread the cookies on bottom with fig marmalade and 
lay a ring on top of each and dust with fine sugar. 

Fairy Drops. 

Beat stiff one quart of egg whites. Mix into it light one and three- 
fourth pounds of fine sugar, then one pound of cake flour with four 
ounces of corn starch and one ounce of cream of tartar, vanilla or 
honeysuckle flavor. Lay out with bag and tube on paper, dust light 
with fine sugar, bake cool; wet the paper to take them of! ; set two 
together with fig or apricot marmalade. 

Ceylon Cocoanut Drops. 

Cream three pounds of sugar with one pound of butter and lard, 
add one pint of eggs, one quart of milk, five pounds cake flour, three 
and one-half ounces of baking powder, one pound desiccated cocoa- 
nut. Drop like drop cake on greased tins. Bake in a medium heat. 

Metropolitan Jelly Buns. 

Mix two pounds of granulated sugar, three-fourths of a pound of 
butter, with seven eggs, one and one-third pints of milk, four pounds 
of cake flour and one ounce of baking powder, like cookie dough, 
lemon flavor. Roll out and cut like sugar cookies, wash with eggs, 
spread a little jelly in the center of each; pull the dough over the top 



— 102 — 

to cover the jelly; set on pans upside down. Press a little, wash 
with egg ; bake hot ; jelly will burst through the top in different 
places. They look well and sell well at ten or twelve cents per dozen. 

Parisian Buns. 

Sift five and a half pounds of cake flour with two ounces of 
cream of tartar in a bowl, rub in dry one and a half pounds of butter 
and lard. Make a hole in the centre, put in two and one-half pounds 
of sugar, one and one-fourth pints of eggs, one and three-fourth pints 
of milk, one ounce of soda. Mix all light; add one pound of currants. 
Drop like drop cakes on cookie tins, wash with egg, sprinkle a little 
fine sugar on the top of each ; bake hot. 

Honey Jumbles. 

FOR MACHINE. 

Fifty pounds of flour, two and one-half pounds of lard, one quart 
of eggs, four gallons of honey, two and one-half quarts of water, four 
ounces of ammonia, twelve ounces of soda, two ounces of salt. 
Leave out five pounds of the flour, which add next morning. Mix 
the night before. 

Assorted Cookies. 

FOR SOFT CAKE MACHINE. 

Fifty-two pounds of powdered sugar, nineteen pounds lard, seven 
and one-half pounds of butter, twelve ounces of salt, three quarts of 
eggs, one and one-fourth pounds of ammonia, twelve ounces of soda, 
four and one-half gallons of condensed milk, five ounces of lemon oil, 
one-half pound of mace, one hundred and fifteen to one hundred and 
twenty pounds of soft flour. Dip some in currants, some in non- 
pareil sugar, some in coarse sugar, some in cocoanut, etc. 

Graham Wafers. 

Twenty-five pounds of C sugar, one gallon of molasses, two and 
one-half gallons boiling hot water, one and one-fourth pounds of salt, 
twenty pounds of lard, one-half pound of ammonia, one pound of soda, 
seventy-five pounds of ^ake flour, twenty-five pounds of Graham 
flour. Mix all well anc' break smooth. They can be rolled out by 
hand, also pricked well before baking. Bake on tins dusted with 
flour. These are very fine goods. 



— 103 — 

Honey Creams. 

Mix thirty-six pounds of honey, six pounds of molasses, six 

pounds of granulated sugar, four pounds of lard, five ounces of soda, 

fourteen ounces of ammonia, five quarts of water, three ounces of 

salt, one quart of eggs (two ounces of cinnamon and four ounces of 

allspice can be added;, about sixty pounds of flour. Drop with 

hand or by soft cake machine. Bake medium warm. Spread the 

bottom very thick with marshmallow, and dip in shredded or fine 

cocoanut. 

^Siek Xaeks. 

Mix well together twenty pounds of A sugar, seven and one-half 
pounds of lard, one-half pound of salt, two gallons of sour milk, three 
quarts of water, three-fourths of an ounce of lemon oil, one-half pound 
of soda, ninety to ninety-five pounds of snowflake flour. 

Marshmallow Filling. 

VERY SHORT, FINE FOR FILLING CREAM PUFFS, LAYER CAKES, ETC, 

Soak eight ounces of gelatine in two quarts of water, then heat 
to dissolve it; put all in beating machine with ten pounds of pow- 
dered XXXX sugar; one to two pounds glucose can be added if not 
wanted quite so short. When half beaten add one-half ounce of 
cream of tartar. Beat as fast as possible, and stop beating as soon 
as stiff or light enough. Flavor with vanilla or honeysuckle. 

JVIarshmallow Filling. 

FOR FILLING BETWEEN WAFERS. FOR WHOLESALE TRADE. 

Soak and dissolve one and a half pounds of gelatine in five 

quarts of hot water. Put in mixer with twenty-two pounds of 

XX vv sugar, eight pounds of glucose, and when partly beaten one 

ounce vi cream of tartar. Vanilla or honeysuckle flavor. Beat fast 

until light. 

\larshmallow Filling- 

WARM MIXTURE. 

Dissolve and let boil up a few times twenty pounds of granulated 
sugar with five pints of water. When partly cool add eight pounds 
of glucose, twenty-two ounces of gelatine dissolved in five and one- 
half pints of lukewarm water. Beat as above and flavor. 

N. B. — In above Marshmallow recipes one-half gelatine and 
one-half." Iciline" can be used to better advantage, and when nearly 
done, a little alum may be added to it. 



/Miscellaneous. 



Liquid Measures. 

Two tablespoonfuls equal . . . i ounce 

One gill equals .... , 4 " 

One cup equals 8 " 

One-half pint equals . . 8 " 

One pint equals 16 

One quart equals 2 pounds 

One gill equals }, cup 

Eighteen to twenty egg whites equal . . 1 pint 

Eight to ten eggs equal 1 pound 

Metric Weights. 

1 gram equals 0.035 ounce 

31.5 grams equal I ounce 

490 grams equal c . . . 1 pound av. 

^ kilogram equals 1. 102 poun^. 

1 kilogram equals , 2. 204 pounds 

1 li*er equals ". 1 quart (shorO 

Degrees far Sugar Bailing. 

For the use of the thermometer. When the sugar boils over 
five minutes, you can look for the first degree, which is: 

The small thread 230 degrees 

The strong thread 236 

Soft ball 240 to 245 

Hard ball 246 to 2 50 

Light crack 260 to 265 

Strong crack 290 to 300 

Light caramel 320 to 330 

Yellow caramel. 340 to 350 



INSTRUCTIONS FOR ORXAMBXTIXC. 




i^r^/r^rr^or^oo^ 



L f V V V V v v v 




Use a smooch, square piece o tin like a school slate to practice on, 
I prefer the cornets made or cut from ornamenting- or parchment pa- 
per to the patent rubber bags, as you have more power and easier move- 
ments with your ringers to regulate pressure of different lines. A are 
plain, straight lines, drawn free, cornet or tube not touching the tin or 
cake. The left hand is held steady over the cake, and the right hand 
with cornet rests upon the left. The thumb and forefinger holds the 
cornet and presses it towards palm of hand, the thumb only presses from 
the top. Then follow, slow and steady, the marked lines, always keeping 
one inch above the cake. When near the end of line (which means, on 
round cakes, the point where you commenced) the hand is lowered 
gradually, stopping at the same time the pressure of the thumb, so the 
lines will meet or close. This is one of the principal rules to observe. 
Repeat this often, laying lines of different thickness first, parallel with 
one another. All lines like B, C, F, K, are drawn free like above. The 
point of the tube or cornet does not touch the cake. The other lines, 
as in L, G, H, are drawn direct on the surface. A second important 
thing is to draw chains of pearls, like in C, which may be drawn in dif- 
ferent thicknesses. Another outside finish for border is a succession of 
round even dots, the main point for them is to stop the pressure before 
full size is reached, and then break off short. The plain, straight lines 
should be first practiced thoroughly before going to other patterns. 




DESIGN FOR BIRTHDAY CAKE. 




CAKE DESIGN, SUITABLE FOR A CHRISTENING. 



I N D EX 



PA.RT I.— PUFF PASTE, PJJSS, TARTS, BTC. 



PAGE 

American Puff Paste 5 

Apple Flamri Tarts 12 

Common Pie Paste 6 

Cream Meringue Pie 9 

Cream Pies 9 

Custard Pies 8 

European Cherry Pie (Flamri) n 

Evaporated and Dried Fruits 7 

French Madelaine Pie or Tarts 10 

French Puff Paste 5 

French Tartlets 12 

Holland or Dutch Puff Paste 6 

How to Prepare Pies 7 

Imperial Currant Pie and Tarts n 

Imperial Vanilla Cream Tarts 11 



TAGS 

Large Patties , 12 

Large Patty Shells 12 

Lemon Pie 8 

Metropolitan Cream or Jelly Tarts ... 12 

Mince Meat for Pies 10 

Peach Meringue 9 

Prepared Pie Seasoning 7 

Pumpkin or Squash Pies 8 

Rhubarb Pie 11 

Rice Pie 10 

Russian Spice Pie 9 

Southern Custard or Potato Pie 10 

Vienna Tart Paste. 6 

Vol-au-Vents 13 

General Rules I 4~ I 5 



FA.RT II.— PUDDINGS, SOUFFLE, ETC. 



Almond Pudding 21 

Baked Apple Dumplings 20 

Boiled Indian Pudding 19 

Boston Brown Bread Pudding 22 

Brandy Sauce 24 

Bread and Butter Pudding 17 

Brown Bread Pudding 22 

Cabinet Pudding 19 

Chateau Sauce 23 

Chocolate Pudding 21 

Cold Farina or Indian Pudding 19 

Combination of Puddings and Sauces. 25 

Cottage Bread Pudding 17 

Cottage Rice Pudding iS 

Cream Sauce 23 

Diplomatic Pudding 19 

English Plum Pudding 20 

Farina or Indian Meal Pudding 17 

Floating Island 22 

French Cream Sauce 23 

Fritters 24 



Fritcers with Baking Powder 24 

Fruit Dumpling 19 

Genuine Old Fashioned English Plum 

Pudding 20 

Hard Sauce 23 

Mayonnaise 24 

Minute Pudding 22 

Omelette SoufflJ 24 

Poor Man's Pudding 20 

Queen Pudding 21 

Rice Pudding, Family Style 18 

Roly-Poly, or Steamed Pudding 18 

Rum Sauce 23 

Snow Pudding 21 

Souffle '7 

Stock Sauce. . . 22 

Suet Pudding 21 

Tapioca and Sago Pudding i> s 

Tutti-Frutti Pudding 19 

Yankee Sauce 2 } 

General Rules. 



107 



— 108 



PA.RTIir.-ICn CREAMS, SHERHETS, JEEEIES, Etu. 



American Ice Cream 30 

Bisque Ice Cream 32 

Blanc Mange 35 

Caramel Cream 31 

Cardinal Punch 32 

Champagne Jelly 34 

Charlotte Russe 35 

Chocolate Essence 31 

Chocolate Ice Cream 31 

Claret Jelly 34 

Coffee Cream 31 

Croquant or Nougat Ice Cream 32 

Custard Cream 30 

Demi-glace of Coffee 35 

European Style of Freezing 29 

Frozen Fruit 33 

Frozen Lemonade 33 

Fruit Blanc Mange 36 

Fruit Jelly 35 

Hokey-Pokey 31 

Ice Cream with Eggs 29 



PAGE 

Jellies 33 

Lemon Ice 33 

Lemon Jelly 34 

Lemon or Orange Ice Cream 30 

Orange Jelly 34 

Orange and Lemon Sherbets 33 

Philadelphia Ice Cream 30 

Pineapple Cream 30 

Pineapple Sherbet 32 

Raspberry Bavarian 36 

Raspberry Floats 36 

Raspberry Fruit Cream 30 

Roman Punch 32 

Sherbets and Punches 32 

Sherry or Port Wine Jelly 34 

Swiss Cream Meringue 35 

Vienna Ice Cream (Vanilla) 29 

Water Ices 33 

Wine Jelly 34 

General Rules 37 



PART IV.— SPONGE CARES, POUND CARES, 
EA.YER CARES, ETC. 



Almond Cake 46 

American Sponge Cake 41 

Angel Food 44 

Chocolate Layer Cake 45 

Citron Cake 42 

Citron Cake. No. 2 43 

Cocoanut Layer Cake 45 

Common Jelly Roll 41 

Dark Wedding Cake 43 

Duchess. No. 1 44 

Duchess. No. 2 44 

European Sponge Cake 39 

Gold Cake 4' 

Imitation Raisin Cake and Pound Cake. >* 

Jelly Cake 45 

Jelly Roll 41 

Lady Cake 42 

Large Sponge Cake. 40 



Layer Cake 42 

Light Pound Cake 40 

Marble Cake 42 

Orange Cake 41 

Pound Cake 40 

Raisin Pound Cake 40 

Silver Cake 42 

Sponge Cake 39 

Strawberry Meringue Squares 44 

Strawberry Short Cake. No. 1 43 

Strawberry Short Cake. No. 2 44 

Vienna Sponge Cake 39 

Vienna Sponge Cake 40 

Wedding Cake 43 

White Mountain Cake 45 

Wine Cake. No. 1 43 

Wine Cake. No. 2 43 

General Rules 47 



— 109 — 

PART V.--SMALE CAKES, COOKIES, CUP CAKES, 
DROP CAKES, ETC. 



Chocolate Diamonds 53 

Christmas Mixture 53 

Cocoanut Wafers 54 

Cup Cakes 51 

Doughnuts or Crullers 53 

Drop Cakes 50 

Extra Cup Cakes 51 

Extra Lemon Snaps 52 

Fancy Cup Cakes 51 

Fried Cakes 53 

Improved New Year Cakes 51 

Jelly Diamonds 50 

Jelly Doughnuts (Bismarks) 54 

Jelly Fingers 50 



Jumbles or Drops 50 

Lemon Snaps, Crisp 52 

New Year Cakes 50 

Orange Crescents 52 

Pound Cup Cakes 51 

Raised Doughnuts 53 

Rock Cakes. 52 

Seed Cakes 49 

Shrewsbury Cakes 49 

Sponge Biscuits 51 

Springerle. No. 1 54 

Springerle. No. 2 54 

Sugar Cookies 49 

General Rules 55 



PART VI.—AIACAROOXS, KISSES, PANCY 
CAKES, ETC. 



Almond Croquettes 58 

Almond Macaroons 57 

Anise Drops (Gateaux Anissette) 62 

Champagne Wafers 59 

Chocolate Eclairs 59 

Chocolate Kisses 61 

Cinnamon Stars 63 

Cocoanut Kisses 60 

Cocoanut Macaroons 58 

Cream Kisses 60 

Cream Puffs 59 

European Almond Macaroons 57 

Fruit Kisses 60 

Home-made Macaroons 57 

Jelly Macaroons 58 

Jennv Lind Slices 63 

Kisses 60 



Lady Fingers 61 

Leaves for Center-Pieces 59 

Macaroon Slices 58 

Macaroon Souffle 58 

Patiences 60 

Parisian Macaroons 57 

Prince Macaroons 58 

Spanish Kisses 60 

Spanish Meringue 60 

Snow Balls 62 

Sponge Drops 61 

Vanilla Wafer Jumbles 61 

Vienna Almond Drops 62 

Vienna Fancy Mixture 62 

Vienna Lady Fingers 61 

Vienna Tea Cakes 62 

General Rules 64 



PART VII.--AIOEASSES AA T D HONEY CAKES. 



American Honey Cakes 71 

American Spiced Honey Cake. ....... 71 

Berkshire Cakes 70 

Bolivars 70 

Brandy Snaps 69 

Cinnamon Wafers 70 

Cobblestones (Pfeffernus^e) 73 



PAGE 

Common Spice Cup Cakes 68 

Crumb or Spice Cookies 69 

English Currant Slices 67 

French Ginger Nuts 69 

German Honey Cakes and Hearts. ... 71 

Ginger Cookies 68 

Ginger Nuts 69 



110 



JMKT \'II.~ MOI.A.SSES AXD 7/OIVUV CAKES-Conf/nned. 



Ginger Snaps 70 

Honey Cakes , 71 

Molasses Cookies 68 

Molasses Fruit Cakes 69 

Molasses Ginger Bread 67 

Molasses Pound Cake 68 

Nurnberger Lebkuchen 72 

Poor Man's Fruit Cake 70 



Scotch Fruit Drops 67 

Spice Cup Cakes 68 

Stock for Honey Cakes 71 

Sugar Nuts (Hard Tacks) 72 

Swiss Honey Cakes (Basler Leckerle). 72 

Thick Honey Cake 72 

Washington Slices 68 

General Rules 74 



PA.RT VIII.--YEA.ST, BltEA&, BISCUITS, COFFEE 
CA/iES, AIUEBIXS, ETC. 



American Rye Bread 81 

Boston Brown Bread with Baking 

Powder 81 

Boston Brown Bread with Yeast 81 

Buckwheat Cakes 83 

Buns 84 

Cinnamon Cake 84 

Coffee Cakes. 1 8j 

Coffee Cake Dough. II 85 

Coffee Wreaths 8,= 

Corn Muffins 83 

Cottage Bread 79 

Currant Buns 84 

Dry Stock Yeast 77 

English Wheat Muffins 83 

Finger Rolls or Lady Washington Rolls 82 

Flour for Bread 78 

French Crullers 86 

French Rolls 81 

French Sticks (without sponge) 80 



Graham Bread (with sponge) 80 

Graham Bread (without sponge) 80 

Graham Gems 82 

Home-made Bread (without sponge). . 79 

Hot Cross Buns 84 

Jelly Doughnuts (Bismarks) 85 

Johnny Cake 83 

Milk Bread 80 

Newport Rolls 82 

Parker House Rolls 82 

Raised Biscuits 81 

Streussel Kuchen 84 

Tea Biscuits 82 

The Ferment 78 

Turk Heads 85 

Vienna Bread 80 

Waffles 83 

Wheat Cakes 83 

Zwieback 85 

General Rules 87 



F*.\RT /.V.~/C7A T GS, EIEEIXGS, FAACF CA/iES, 
COLORS, ETC. 



PAGE 

Almond Souffle Kisses. (Auflauf). . . . 95 

American Chocolate Frosting 90 

American Marzipan 95 

American Vanilla Cream Frosting. . . 89 

Apple Filling 92 

Apples, Pears, etc 94 

Blue Coloring 93 

Boiled Chocolate Frosting 90 

Boiled Frosting for Honey Cakes 92 

Cheap Baking Powder 96 



Clear Caramel 96 

Coffee Icing 91 

Colored Sugar Sand 93 

Cream for Filling 92 

Croquant or Nougat 96 

Dominoes 94 

Egg Food Icing 92 

Fondant for Frosting 91 

Gelatine Icing 01 

Lemon and Orange Sugar 93 



— Ill — 



PART IX.— ICINGS, FILLINGS, FAiYCYCAKES, COLORS, ETC.— Cont'd. 



Lemon Frosting 91 

Lemon-Jelly Filling 92 

Marshmallow Filling. 1 89 

Marshmallow Filling. II 90 

Orange and Lemon Zest 94 

Pears and App'es of Meringue k .■•> 95 

Pistachio Icing 91 

Potatoes 94 

Pure Baking Powder 96 

Red Cochineal Color 93 



Rock Sugar (Honeycomb) 96 

Rose, Almond or Strawberry Icing ... 91 

Royal Icing 92 

Sugar Couleur (Burned Sugar) 95 

Vanilla and Rose Souffle 95- 

Vanilla Sugar . . . '. 94 

Walnut Frosting 89 

Water Icing 89 

Whipped Cream 93 

Yellow Coloring 93 



MISCEEE.XNEOUS RECIPES. 



Apple Snow Cake 100 

Assorted Cookies 102 

Belgrade Almond Slices 100 

California Fig Tarts 101 

Ceylon Cocoanut Drops 101 

Fairy Drops 101 

Fig Cake 101 

Golden Rod Cake (2^ 99 

Graham Wafers 102 

Honey Creams 103 



Honey Jumbles 102 

Lemon Twist 99 

Marshmallow Filling (3) 103 

Melons 100 

Metropolitan Jelly Buns 101 

Nick Nacks 103 

Orange Slices 99 

Parisian Buns 102 

Stork Nests (Ribbon Cake) 100 



XEW RECIPES L\ 4th EDITION. 



Caramel Cake 46 

Cerman Brodtorte 46 

Magnolia Cake 46 

Genuine Phil. Pound Cake 46 

Chocolate Torte 46 

Nougatines 63 

Cocoanut 63 

Croquet 63 

Printanierre 63 

Chocolat 63 

African 63 

Buttercups, Creme 64 

Ceylon 64 

Lady Washington.... 64 

Sugar Nuts 73 

Peppernuts 73 



Peppermint Icing 73 

Macaroon Honeycakes 73 

French Honeycakes /3 

Parisian Honeycakes 7 [ 

Braunschweiger Honeycakes 7 \ 

Carlsbad Lebkuchen 74 

German Ryebread 86 

Victoria Biscuits 97 

Vanilla Crisp 97 

Pineapple Cakes 97 

Lunch Crackers 97 

Waters 97 

Water Biscuits 97 

Butter Biscuits 97 

Jumbles 97 

Special Recipe> for Egg Nutrine,etc 98 



IEEUSTRX TIOXS. 



Far?y Designs for Macaroons.... 65 

Fancy Designs for Desserts 66 

Instructions for Ornamenting 105 



Design for Birthday Cake 106 

Design for Christening : 107 



($oofcs Bbvertisefc 



f^* Q^* Q&* Q&* 



THE author of "Perfection in Baking takes pleasure in 
calling attention to the materials, machinery, etc., adver- 
tised in this book, as he has tested them personally and can vouch 
for their quality. Any inquiry in regard to their particular work- 
ings, or their preparation for use, will be cheerfully answered. 



Almond Paste- 
Henry Heide, New York. 
Baking Powder— 

A. Krout Co., Philadelphia. 
Cake Ornaments— 

Schall & Co., New York. 
Colors — 

M. Neumann, New York. 
Corn Starch— 

T. Kingsford & Son, Oswego. 

Egg Nutrine— 

French Mfg. Co., Philadelphia. 

Ice Boxes- 
Trotter & Son, Rochester. 

Journals for Bakers- 
Bakers' Review, New York. 
The Bakers' Helper, Chicago. 
Supply World, New York. 

Flour Mills— 

Pillsbury-Washburn Mill. Co., Min- 
neapolis. 
Washburn Crosby Co., Minneapolis. 
Urban Milling Co., Buffalo. 
W. Listman Milling Co., Super. or, 



Wi 



Freeman Milling Co., West Superior, 
Wis. 
Machinery, Tools, Etc. 

Mussgiller & Mangels, New York. 

Bower & Co., New York. 

J. H. Day & Co., Cincinnati. 

Wm. Hart, New York. 

Jas Y. Watkins & Son, New York. 

Rich L. McHale, New York. 

Bramhall, Deane & Co., New Yurk. 
Molasses— 

W. Wirt Wickes, New York. 
Ovens— 

Hubbard Portable Oven Co., Chi- 
cago. 

Middleby Oven Co., New York. 
Piefillings— 

Excelsior Mfg. Co. ,Ne\v York. 
Printers- 
Payne Printing Co., New York. 
Soda and Saleratus— 

Church & Co., New York. ' 

Dwight & Co., New York. 
Yeast— 

Fleischmann & Co., New York. 



When writing to advertisers please mention 
"Perfection in Baking." 



Advertising Suppl emcnt 



SCHALL * CO., 

61 Barclay Street, N^w Vrn-L- 

16, 18, 20 West Broadway, IHUW TOlK. 

MANUFACTURERS OF THE LATEST AND FINEST 

Gum Paste Flowers, Leaves 

S> S* and Cake Ornaments, 



fjj 




S 






o 


4> 






■M 




V 


</> 




C/J 








T3 




> 


C 




LU 
i- 


tfl 




o 


<u 




•** 








•♦-» 




Cfl 


> 


*> 




o 




« 


^ 




'3 


u 


*> 


a* 
a 


•*■» 




C/i 






■*j 


LU 




u 


n 


*> 








J 


-M 




v 








d 




<** 


J 




O 


i» 




u 


J3 




0) 


■M 






'^ 




o 


^ 




a 


CS 




b 


2 








ft) 

3 
o 

3" 

T] 



r 

OK} 
to 

> 

Cfl 
O 



n 

3* 



3 

Co 



o 



1313 I5X6/ £ IN. 

.MPORTBRB OP TH §st OUVE 0/L _ 



FANCY MOULDS FOR 



Ice Cream, Chocolate and Conserves our specialty. 



ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE SENT FREE ON APPLICATION. 



Advertising Supplement 



M. NEUMANN, 

SOLE AGENT FOR 

E. P. HOPPE & CO., 
Leipzig, Germany. 

NON-POISONOUS COLORS 
FOR BAKERS AND 




CONFECTIONERS 



IN POWDERS AND PASTES. 

UNSURPASSED FOR PURITY. 

Chocolate Brown Paste a Specialty. Bakers' Yolk Colors in 
Powders and Liquors. 

We guarantee all our colors to be perfectly 
free from any poison or injurious substance. 

Samples and Price List Sent on Application. 

22 & 24 North William St., 

NEW YORK. 



Advertising Supplement 



AVOID BULK SODA 



Bad Soda Spoils Good Flour. 

Pure Soda- the Best Soda, comes 
only in PACKAGES 

Bearing Trade Mark: AR M and HAMMER. 
It costs no more than inferior package Soda 
—never spoils the flour— always keeps soft. 
Beware of Imitation trade marks and labels, 
and INSIST ON PACKAGES 
bearing these words— 




CHURCH &CQ New York. 

SOLD BY GROCERS EVERYWHERE. 



Write for Arm and Hammer Book of Valuable Recipes- FREE. 



A tlvertisi n ij S iipplcmciit 



HEADQUARTERS 



FOR 



BAKER 



KER'S AND ITCMCI C 

CONFECTIONERS V I ELIHOILO, 




Sole Manufacturer of the Celebrated 

BURKHARD CANDY FURNACES. 

A large stock always on hand ; 

Also manufacturers of the best quality 
of all kinds of 

Bread and Cake Pans, 

Oven Peels, 

Cake and Cookie Cutters, 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO THE TRADE. 



THE NEW STEEL 

Cruller Pot. 



All in one piece. Will 
last a lifetime. War- 
ranted not to leak. The 
best Cruller Pot in the 
World. 



Ice Cream Freezers, 
Tubs and 
Cans. 



WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE. 




WILLIAM HART, 

34 and 36 CATHARINE ST., NEW YOPk 

157 CHAMBER ST., llEff ■«■*■*, 



iNoar WcM Kroiidivuy.) 



Advertising Supplement 




Urban 



Milling 



Ccx 



BUFFALO, N. Y. 

" URBAN'S BEST " The Best Bread Flour 

" PIC PRNQT " T ^e Best f° r Pastry and Pies, because it takes 
It- UnUO I |i tt i e shortening. 



William Listman Milling Co., 

SUPERIOR, WISCONSIN, U. S. A. 

MILLERS OF THE FAMOUS BRAND 

— SENSA TION-— 

The Best Flour made in the Northwest--Only the Choicest Hard Spring 

Wheat Used. 



FREEMAN MILLING CO., 

WEST SUPERIOR, WIS. 

..SUPERLATIVE.. 

There are many Spring Wheat Flours, but few milled as carefully 
and scientifically as this one. It will be well for Bakers 
to give this Flour a trial, if they are not now using it. 



Advertising Supplement 



Bramhall, 
Deane Company, 

Manufacturers of 

French Ranges, Portable Brick Ovens, 

Broilers, Vermont Ovens, 

Carving Tables, Rumford Ovens, 

Coffee and Tea Urns, Plate Warmers, 

Copper Saucepans, Water Heaters, 

Ice Cream Freezers, Confectioned Stoves, 

Steam Cooking Apparatus, 
Cooking Utensils* 

e<5* t^* t&* t&* 

262, 264 and 266 Water Street, 

NEW YORK. 



Advertising Supplement 



We print the Bakers' Review, Fancy Stationery 

Perfection in Baking, I For the Bakers' Trade* 

And several other publications. Lithographing. 



Payne Printing Company, 

PRINTERS, 

Publications 

a* Job Work *£ 

Catalogues 

IN FACT EVERYTHING. 

103 PARK PLACE, 

BOROUGH OF MANHATTAN. NEW YORK CITY. 

G W- Trotter & Sons, 

7 East Avenue, 
Rochester, N. Y. 

IRefrifle rators of all Stgleg 
flftafre to ®vbev. 

t£F* t&* t^^ ^^ 

GOOD FOR THE BAKERS. 

Also Manufacturers of the Best Portable Bake Ovens. 



WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 



Advertising Sujjplcmcnt 



W^fc^^fc^^fc^fc^fc^^ 



XLhc Bakers' IRevnew, 

Cbc only Bakers' Cradcpaper 
in America published by—:: 



s 



practical 
Bakers... 



EACH M Allelic CONTAINS— 

Editorial Review of Trade Conditions 

Official' Association Reports 

Valuable Reeipes 

Competent Market Reports 

News of Hie Trade from ail parts of the Globe 

It is the best Advertising Medium. 

Bakers' IRevnew publishing Co., 

23 DUANE STREET, 
NEW YORK, 

EMIL BRAUN, Editor. 

surscription okly 
one dollar a year 




Advertising Supplement 




Day's Dough Mixer 

When buying Bakers' Machinery get the 
best and latest improved. They are 
much more satisfactory to use and arc 
far cheaper in the end. OurDay's 
Dough Mixer has more late improve- 
ments than any other, and many points 
that recommend it to practical bakers. 
Send for description and prices. Sizes 
from 1-3 to 8 barrels. 

Day's Dough Brake 

Fitted with guards over all gearing 
and rollers so that no accident can oc- 
cur to bakers using them. This should 
not be overlooked when buying a brake. 
The machines have a number of late 
improvemnts not to be found on any 
other machines of the kind. Well made 
and finely finished. 

J. H. DAY & CO., 

NEW YORK OFFICE MANUFACTURERS HIGH-GRADE BAKERS MACHINERY, 

61 [N] PARK PLACE. 1144 [N] HARRISON AVE., 

CINCINNATI, OHIO. 

Write for our new Bakers' Machinery Catalogue No. 12. 




^ESTABLISHED 1884. 



W. WIRT WIGKES, 

62 Water Street, New York. 



IMPORTER AND DEALER IN 



MOLASSES. SYR URS AND HONEY, 

BAKERS' MOLASSES A SPECIALTY. 



SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. 



A TRIAL SOLICITED. 



RICHARD L. MacHALE, 

MANUFACTURER OP 

BAKERS' MACHINERY. DOUGH MIXERS, BRAKES. CUT 



TERS, OVENS. SHAFTING, PULLEYS, ETC. 

129-135 MANGIN STREET. NEW YORK. 

PRICES AND CATALOGUES FURNISHED ON APPLICATION, 



A dvertislng Supplerne n t 



The 



s/.oo 



Supply 
World. 



RER 

YEAR 



S 



Published Monthly, to Interest and 
Listruct Bakers, Confectioners, 
Caterers, and Ice Cream Manufacturers. 

SAMPLE COPIES MAILED FREE. 

BUSINESS OFFICES 

1 57-159 Franklin Street, New York. 

J. M. WASHBURNE, EDITOR, 



A. M. BECKER. 



E. E. PIERSON. 



F. M. BOWER * CO., 



165 Chambers Street, 



Telephone Connections. 



NEW YORK. 



MANUFACTURERS OF AND DEALERS 
IN EVERY UTENSIL USED BY A 




BAKER 



CONFECTIONER 

AND 

ICE CREAM 



MAKER 




MAYONNAISE MIXER. 



MOTTO PAPERS. 



Advertising Supplement 




Oldest Bakers Journal 
In America, 




CK'vcogo 



Largest Bakers' Journal 
In America, 



76 TO 100 PAGES EACH MONTH. 
One Dollar a Year. Sample Copy Free. 



ITS SPECIALTIES : 

TECHNICAL ARTICLES — Exclusive papers on the 
Science and Art of Baking, by the foremost experts in 
America and Europe. 

ORIGINAL RECIPES-- The ?iewest a?id best recipes 
for bakers, prepared especially for its pages by well-known 
bakers. 

BAKERY PLANS— Photographs, drawings, floor 
plans, descriptiofis of new bakeries, large and small, and 
old ones with good points. 

B USINE SS POINTERS— Money - maki?ig and 
money-saving hints, suggestions and expcrie?ices, from 
S7iccessful me?i everywhere. 

CORRESPONDENCE— Letters from active, push- 
ing bakers on matte? s of general trade interest, bakery 
management, etc. 

TRADE NOTES — Items of news about bakers and 
bakeries in every State and Territory. 



ADDRESS : 

BAKERS' HELPER, 1 90 Madison Street, Chicago. 

H. R. CLISSOLD, Proprietor, 



Most Widely Circulated 
Bakers'' Journal 

11 America 




Oftenest Quoted 

Bakers' Journal 

in America 




CVutogo 



Advertising Supplement 



Ornamenting 



Outfit 



Q^ 1 ft^' G^* t&* 

Rubber bag with screw attachment 
and one dozen strong nickel tubes 
with screw to change without emp- 
tying the bag, and drawings for in- 
structions and patterns to learn how 
to ornament. 



ALL SENT POSTAGE PAID, 
SECURELY PACKED, For $2. 16 



Address, EMIL BRAUN, 

23 Duane St., New York. 



For 45 Cents 



I will send, post- 
age prepaid, one 
Strong Canvas 



Bag and Three 



Tubes, a perfect outfit for making LADY FINGERS, 

KISSES and 



CREAM PUFFS. 



Address EMIL BRAUN, 

23 Duane St., New York. 



SEP 20 1899 






LIBRARY 






4 520 943 2 






■ 
•■ His 

H 

m 

1111111 

llllll 









■ 
11II1I 



Ill pll 

§^||| § 



islsssss. 






111!! 



!^'^^'^-> 1181 1 '. \; 



HI' HI 

^» Si 




HI Hi 

lllf '." 1 •■ ™1 



llllll 
llilil 



li 



M^^ 






... 



■ 



1L 
Hill 




