CiKM 
Microfiche 



(l\/lonographs) 



iCI\/IH 

Collection de 
microfiches 
(monographies) 




Canadian Institute for Historical Microredroductions/lnstitut canadien de microreproductions historiques 





Technical and Bibliographic Notes / Notes techniques et bibliographiques 



:|ues 



The Institute has attempted to obtain the best original 
copy available for filming. Features of this copy which 
may be bibliographically unique, which may alter any of 
the images in the reproduction, or which may 
significantly change the usual method of filming are 
checked below. 



Coloured covers / 
Couverture de couleur 



I I Covers damaged / 



Couverture endommagee 



□ Covers restored and/or laminated / 
Couverture restauree et/ou pelliculee 

I I Cover title missing / Le titre de couverture manque 

I I Coloured maps / Cartes g6ographiques en couleur 



n 



Coloured ink (i.e. other than blue or black) / 
Encre de couleur (i.e. autre que bleue ou noire) 



I I Coloured plates and/or illustrations / 



Planches et/ou illustrations en couleur 



Bound with other material / 
Relie avec d'autres documents 



Only edition available / 
Seule edition disponibie 

Tight binding may cause shadows or distortion along 
interior margin / La reiiure serree peut causer de 
I'ombre ou de la distorsion le long de la marge 
interieure. 

Blank leaves added during restorations may appear 
within the text. Whenever possible, these have been 
omitted from filming / Use peut que certaines pages 
blanches ajoutees tors d'une restauration 
apparaissent dans le texte, mais, lorsque cela etait 
possible, ces pages n'ont pas ete filmees. 



□ Additional comments / 
Commentaires supplementaires: 



D 
D 
D 



D 



L'institut a microfilm^ le meilleur exemplaire qu'il lui a 
ete possible de se procurer. Les details de cet exem- 
plaire qui sont peut-etre uniques du point de vue bibli- 
ographique, qui peuvent modifier une image reproduite, 
ou qui peuvent exiger une modification dans la metho- 
de normale de filmage sont indiques ci-dessous. 

Coloured pages / Pages de couleur 

I Pages damaged / Pages endommagees 



D 



D 
D 



D 



Pages restored and/or laminated / 
Pages restaurees et/ou pellicul6es 



Pages discoloured, stained or foxed / 
Pages d6color6es, tachet6es ou piquees 

Pages detached / Pages detachees 

I y\ Showrthrough / Transparence 

Quality of print varies / 
Qualit^ in^gale de I'impression 



Includes supplementary material / 
Comprend du materiel supplementaire 

Pages wholly or partially obscured by errata slips, 
tissues, etc., have been refilmed to ensure the best 
possible image / Les pages totalement ou 
partiellement obscurcies par un feuillet d'errata, une 
pelure, etc., ont ete filmees a nouveau de fa?on a 
obtenir la meilleure image possible. 

Opposing pages with varying colouration or 
discolourations are filmed twice to ensure the best 
possible image / Les pages s'opposant ayant des 
colorations variables ou des decolorations sont 
filmees deux fois afin d'obtenir la meilleure image 
possible. 



F 



This item is filmed at the reduction ratio checked below / 

Ce document est filme au taux de reduction indlque ci-dessous. 



10x 








14x 








18x 








22x 








26x 








30x 














































1 
1 



12x 



16x 



20x 



24x 



28x 



32x 



.V-IV^S 



The copy filmed here has been reproduced thanks 
to the generosity of: 

Hamilton Public Library 



L'exemplaire film^ fut reproduit grace ^ la 
gin^rosit^ de: 

Hamilton Public Library 



The images appearing here are the best quality 
possible considering the condition and legibility 
of the original copy and in keeping with the 
filming contract specifications. 



Les images suivantes ont 6t6 reproduites avec le 
plus grand soin. compte tenu de la condition et 
de la nettet^ de l'exemplaire film^, at en 
conformity avec las conditions du contrat de 
filmage. 



Original copies in printed paper covers are filmed 
beginning with the front cover and ending on 
the last page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, or the back cover when appropriate. All 
other original copies are filmed beginning on the 
first page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, and ending on the last page with a printed 
or illustrated impression. 



Les exemplaires originaux dont la couverture en 
papier est imprimAe sont filmds en commenpant 
par le premier plat et en terminant soit par la 
derniire page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration, soit par le second 
plat, selon le cas. Tous les autres exemplaires 
originaux sont filmAs en commen^ant par la 
premiere page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration et en terminant par 
la derniire page qui comporte une telle 
empreinte. 



The last recorded frame on each microfiche 
shall contain the symbol — •• (meaning "CON- 
TINUED '), or the symbol V (meaning 'END "), 
whichever applies. 

Maps, plates, charts, etc., may be filmed at 
different reduction ratios. Those too large to be 
entirely included in one exposure are filmed 
beginning in the upper left hand corner, left to 
right and top to bottom, as many frames as 
required. The following diagrams illustrate the 
method: 



Un des symboles suivants apparaitra sur la 
derniAre image de cheque microfiche, selon le 
cas: le symbole — ♦■ signifie "A SUIVRE ", le 
symbole V signifie "FIN ". 

Les cartes, planches, tableaux, etc., peuvent etre 
film6s A des taux de reduction diffdrents. 
Lorsque le document est trop grand pour etre 
reproduit en un seul clichd, il est film^ d partir 
de Tangle sup^rieur gauche, de gauche d droite, 
et de haut en bas, en prenant le nombre 
d'images n^cessaire. Les diagrammes suivants 
illustrent la m^thode. 



1 


2 


3 




1 


2 


3 


4 


S 


6 



MICROCOPY RESOLUTION TEST CHART 

(ANSI and ISO TEST CHART No. 2l 



1.0 



I.I 




1.25 



1.4 



1.6 



J ^PPLED IIVMGE Inc 

—"_ I6'jj East Mam SIreel 

r^ Rochester, New York U609 USA 

^= (716) 482 - OMO - Phone 

^ ( ? I fj) 288 - 6989 - Fa« 




JEWEL COOK BOOK 



COXTAININCi 



CHOICE COOKING 
RECIPES 

AND OTHER VALUABLE INFORMATION 
FOR THE HOUSEWIFE 




£ja 



r: 



-5 V V C 




^ 



=" J EWE L"- 

Stoves and Rang'es 




E HAVE pleasure in furnishing you in the following 
pages a large number of Choice Cookinff Recipes 

which, we trust, you will find useful. We also 
supply various items of general interest and a good 
deal of information in regard to our line of 



JEWEL STOVES AND RANGES 

In purchasing such an article as a Stove, which, with 
ordinary care, should last many years, Clicapness should not 
he the only consideration. The ditference in price between a 
poorly-constructed, cheap stove and a reliable one of superior 
construction, when spread over a number of years, amounts 
to such a small sum per year as not to merit consideration 
when compared with the comfort and satisfaction obtained by 
the use of the better stove. 

The question shoiUd be "Which stove will last the 
longest and give best satisfaction .» "—for the Best is always 
€lieapest. 

"JEWEL" Stoves and Ranges are not expensive and 
are nearest perfection in construction. 

"JEWEL" Stores and Ranges are made in immense 
variety of style and size, and any requirement can be supplied. 

Every "JEWEL" Stove or Range is fully warranted 
by the manufacturers, 

The Burrow, Stewart & Milne Co., Ltd. 

HAMILTON, ONTARIO 



rig 
es 

so 
ad 



i 

j 



Lh 
ot 

a 
ur 
ts 
)n 
>y 

le 



} 



i 



"JEWEL" 

STOVES AND RANGES 



Next to the ability to create a first-class article is the capa- 
city to recognize it when created, " JEWEL " Stoves and 
Ranges commend themselves only to people who have the capa- 
city to recognize the highest excellence yet attained in stove 
construction. 



COOKING RECEIPTS 



I got a piece of real old-fashioned wedding cake the other day, and after, 
of course, dreaming on it, I ate it, crunching the lovely thick almond paste that 
lies under the frosting, and then I set to wondering if you knew how to make it. 
This is the way : — Get one pound of groimd almonds, one pound of fine sifted 
lump sugar, the whites of two eggs and a few drops of essence of almonds. Mix 
the sugar and the ground almonds well together; then add, little by little, the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a froth, until the mixture is a thick paste ; add the 
essence of almonds, mix all thoroughly — and there you are. 

Bread 

Rye and Corn Meal Bread— Two teacupfuls each of rye flour and corn 
meal, half a teacupful of molasses, one teaspoonful each of salt and soda. Pour 
enough boiling water on the corn meal to just moisten it. When cool add 
sufficient water to make a thin batter. Dissolve half a cake of compressed yeast 
in a little water, and sift the soda and salt with the rye meal ; stir the molasses 
into the corn meal batter, then the rye meal, etc., and lieat thoroughly. Set to 
rise in a warm place, and when it cracks open, turn it into a greased baking pan, 
and when light bake in a moderate oven. This iunount will make two small 
loave" or one large loaf. The small loaves will bake in an hour, but the larger 
one wouiJ require nearly two hours. 

Steamed Corn and Graham Bread — Two cups of corn meal, two cups of 
Graham flour, two cups of sour milk, two-thirds of a cup of molasses, one te<a- 
spoonful of soda. Steam two and one-half hours. 

Plain White Family Bread— One pint of flour and half a pint of good hop 
yeast; stir these together about five o'clock in the afternoon; at nine put 
one-half gallon of flour in a tray and put the spong ,n the middle of the flour 
with a piece of lard as large as a walnut. Knead .. til with tepid water, in 
which salt (two tablespoonfids or more) has been dissolved; work it well, and 
put it in a jar to rise. Next morning knead it over with a little flour ; make it in 
two loaves, and set in a warm place or oven till ready; then put it to bake, and 
when it is done wrap it in a coarse towel. If you have no sugar in the yeast you 
use, stir a large teaspoonful in it before putting in the floui\ 

Uraham Bread — Take a little over a quart of warm water, one-halt cupful 
of brown sugar or molasses, one-fourth cupful of hop yeast, and one and one- 
half teaspoonfuls of salt. Thicken the water with unbolted flour to a thin 



'"H... 



2 JEWEL STOVES AND RANGES. 

batt€r ; add sugar, salt and yeast ; then stir in more flour till quite stiff. In the 
morning add a small tcaspoonful of soda, and floiir (>nouj;li to make tlio battor 
stiff as it can he stirr<<d with a spoon; put it into pans, let it rise again, then 
bake in an evenly heated oven, not too fast at first. Keej) it \varm while it is 
rising, and smooth over the loaves with a spoon or knife dipped in water. 

Breakfast and Tea Dishes 

Bung— Dissolv<! half a cake of comprcss^'d yeast in a fourth of a cup of 
warm water, add a teacupful of tepid milk, one t'alUespoonfid of sui^ar, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, and a pint of flour. Make a hatter of these ingredients, and set 
to rise. When light, add a well beaten egg, three tahlcspooiifnls of melted but- 
ter, half a teacupful of nirrants, half a teaspoonful of cinnamon, and flour to 
make a stiff dough. Knead until it is v«ry fine and then set to rise again. When 
light, mould into small round biscuits, .set close together in a shallow pan, and 
when they are very light brush over the top with a little white of egg mixed with 
sugar, or just simply sweetened water. Bake evenly in a moderate oven. 

Breakfast Rolls— Two cups of flour, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of 
water, one-half teaspoonful of salt; hake twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. 

Johnny Cake— One egg, two tablcspoonfuls of brown sugar, one tahle- 
spoonful of shortening (lard or butter), one teacupful of .sour milk, one teacupful 
of corn meal, one teacupful of wheat flour, one teasptHinful of salt, one-half tea- 
spoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of baking powder. 



A good stove should be, and every " JEWEL " is, artistic 
in design, a perfect operator, and very durable. 



Johnny Cake— One quart of milk, four eggs, one quart of Indian meal, 
two tablcspoonfuls of butter melted, one teaspoonful of soda, a little salt. 

Johnny Cake — Two cups of sour milk, two cups of corn meal, one cup of 
flour, one egg, two tablespoons of sugar, a pinch of salt, two tablespoons of 
melted lard, two teaspoons of soda. 

Corn Gems— On scant pint of meal, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and a generous pint of toiling milk; stir thoroughly and let 
stand until cool, then stir in three beaten eggs, and bake in buttered pans. 

Toasted Crackers— Butter large, square soda crackers. Place on a tin and 
and brown the upper side in the oven. Tiiey should be watched closelv, as they 
brown more quickly than bread. Serve hot. 

Breakfast Toast— Dip each slice of bread— untoasted--in sweet milk, then 
in a batter consisting of one beaten egg, one cup of sweet milk, one table- 
spoonful of flour, and a little pepper and salt. Fry to a light brown in butt«r, 
using a griddle or frying pan, and turning as one would griddle cakes. 

Cream Toast— Bring to the boiling point a pint of rich sweet milk. Stir 
into it a teaspoonful of corn starch which has been beaten smooth in a little cold 
milk. Add a small lump of butter, pepper and salt. It is best not to add the 
salt until the milk has Iwiled, as it is liable to curdle otherwise. Dip the toasted 
bread in hot salted water, place in a deep dish, and pour the prepared cream 
over it. 

Tomato Toast -Place a pint of fresh sliced or canned tomatoes in a 
gruiiile kettle over the fire, adding a little wutei -les.s for canned than for fresh 
tomatoes. While they are simmering the bread should be toasted, buttered and 
placed on a deep platter. Lastly, turn into the tomatoes one pint of sweet cream, 
fjet it come to the boiling point, pour over toast, and serve. 



1 



BURROW, SI K WART & MILNK CO., LTD. 



8 



Buttered Toast -Dip slices of toast in hot wat<fr, a little salted, spread 
with butter and serve while hot. It is also nice prepared with an egg on each 
slice. The eggs should Iw cooked by bre' king in boiling salted water, and let- 
ting them remain until they are sufficiently hardened to remove. 

Dutch Toast This is iin old-fashioned di.sh -nice for using broken bits 
of .stale biciui. Crumble the bread fine and place in a frying pan, in which a 
generous slice of buttt'r has Iwen melted. Add salt, jjepper and sage if liked— 
it needs to be seasoned (juite highly- and a small quantity of boiling water. 
Cover closely, so the steam will soften the bread. Stir well several times, and it 
is ready to serve. 

(iraham Gems -Two cujjs of buttermilk, one cup of wheat flour, two cups 
of (iraham flour, one teaspoon of saleratus, a pinch of salt. Hake in cup tins. 

l-ritters— Three eggs, the whites and yolks l)eaten separately, three 
colTeecupfuls of flour find two of sour milk or buttermilk, one teaspoonful each 
of soda and salt. Dissolve soda in the milk, stir in the egg yolks, then the sifted 
flour and salt, lastly the egg whites beaten stiff. Have a kettle of Ixjiling fat 
rt'ady, drop the batttr in by sjxwnfuls, and cook the fritter to a light brown. 

Rusks Sift thoroughly together a quart of flour, two heaping teaspoon- 
fuls of b-iking powder and one of salt. Stir to a cream half a teacupful of but- 
ter with one teacupfid of sugar, and add the Iwaten yolks of three eggs. Stir 
the flour well with suflicient water to make it as thick as bread dojgh, then mix 
well with it the butter, sugar and eggs. Form with the hands into little balls or 
cakes; rub the lops with sugar and water and sift a little dry sugar over. Bake 
at once. 



The purchaser of a " JEWEL " Stove or Range will re- 
member the Quality long after the price has been forgotten. 



Breakfast Gems— One cup of sweet milk, one and one-half cups of flour, 
one egg, one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of baking powder; beat together 
five minutes ; baiie in hot gem pans in a hot oven about fifteen minutes. 

Buttermilk Biscuits— To three cupfuls of buttermilk add one of butter, 
one teasptxinful of <ream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, a dessert spoon- 
ful of sjilt, and sufficient flour to nuike a dough just stiff enough to admit of 
lieing rolled out into biscuits. 

Rolls— Rub one-half teaspoonful of lard into one quart of flour; make a 
well in the middle, put in one-half cui; of baker's yeast — or one cup of home- 
made — two teaspoonfuls of sugar, one-half pint of cold boiled milk. Do not 
stir it, and let it stand over night ; in the morning knead it well ; after dinner 
knead it again, cut it out, and put in pans, and let it rise until tea time. Bake 
in a quick oven. 

Muffins— One pint of bread sponge, one pint of sweet milk, two eggs, one- 
half cup of butter, a pinch of salt; let the mixture rise three hours, and buke it 
in muffin rings. 

Corn Rolls — Eight heaping tablespoonfuls of corn meal, two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of s.alt, one quart of boiling milk; stir all together, 
and let it stand until it is cool. Add six eggs well beaten, and bake in gem pans, 
or well butt i. ■ cups. 

Buckwht,ii Cakes. — Mix thoroughly together one quart of buckwheat 
flour, one teaspoonful of salt, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one gill of 
corn meal, three tablespoonfuls of molasses, and sufficient milk or water to make 
a thin batter. If preferred, half a pint of wheat flour and one and one-half pints 



//. 



.IKWEL STOVES AM) KANGE8. 



of till' liiukwiieiit <an lie used. Tlu« cakes will lnowii better if all milk is used. 
Cdok ;iH .Mion as ini.wd. 'i'licy vvill Ih' lit;lil.'r if ((Mjkcd I.efore the gas escapes, 
1111(1 it is iircifiiililo ti) mix at a time only so much as will Ixj cooked within fifteen 
minutes. I'oin meal rimkcs them less loii^jli, and some juvfcr corn meal both in 
buckwiioiit and wheat cakes. 

Vegetables and Fruits 

Corn Chowder (hop fine a pint of tanned corn, slice one and one-half 
flints of ra.w poiatocs very tliin : fry three of four slices of salt pork in a deep 
kettle, and in this fat fry one sliced onion ; over this put in the corn and potatoes 
in layers, sprinkle with .salt and fieppei, and dredge with a little flour. Pour 
over a pint of lioilint,' water, cover and diok until the [lotatoes are soft, which 
hhoidd be in fifteen or twenty minutes, then stir in at least a pint of milk and a 
little flour and watei for thickening. Split half a dozen crackers (Boston crack- 
ers are the best), diji them in cold water a few seconds, put them in the chowder, 
let it boil up oiice and it is then ready to .serve. 

Baked Sifted Potato A very ni(o way to warm over mashed potato is 

to press it tliroui,'h a potato sifter, whii'h can now be obtained very cheaply (25 
to 35 cents). This leaves it light as a feather. It is well to grease the pan or 
baking dish, then sift the jiotatoes directly into it. Lay bits of butter on the top 
and iiake to a delicate '.irown. It makes a jiretly dish for lunch or breakfast. It 
can be set on the talile in the dish in wliidi it is baked, or be carefiUly removed 
to another, so as not to materially break up the golden top crust. 



The " JEWEL " Stoves and Ranges with Cold Rolled Sheet 
Steel Ovens require less fuel than Stoves and Ranges of all Cast 
Iron construction. 



Tomato Omelette -Skin half a dozen large ripe tomatoes, stew and strain 
thioiigh a sieve, mix well with them three tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, 
four well-beaten eggs, four tables[K)onfuls of sweet milk. Salt and pepper to 
taste. Bake brown in buttered pans. 

Potato Croquettes— Pare six large potatoes, boil and mash fine, and mix 
with iIkiu the v lutes of two well-beaten eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, 
two-thirds of a lU)) of hot cream or milk, and salt and pepper to taste. When 
cool enough to handle, mould into balls, dip in beaten egg, then in cracker 
crumbs, drop into hot pan and fry brown. 

Scotch Potato Scones— Pare and wash eight good-sized potatoes, boil until 
done. Mash line and add a pinch of salt, and mix enough flour to make a 
stiff dough; roll thin and cut in strips and bake on a large griddle without 
grease. These are very nice eaten warm. 

Spiced Tomatoes -Select medium or small sized fruit, scald lightly and 
skin, and for each six pounds use four pounds of sugar, two tablespoonfuls each 
of ground cloves and cinnamon and one pint of good cider vinegar. Tie the 
s])ices in a thin muslin bag and scald them in the vinegar, then add sugar, and 
when the syrup Ixiils again put in the tomatcxis. When the tomatoes are well 
cooked, take them out into jars or bottles and keep them hot. Boil the syrup 
down until if is rich and thi^k : then pour it over the tom:i.t/>cs .and seal while 
liot. This makes a nice relish for fresh meats, or, indeed, any kind of meats or 
fish. 



*\ 



nURUOW, STEWART & MILNE CO., LTD. 




The Royal .luwel is iiuvdf in a Kfoat v;uioty of sizes mid .styles, also with Kncaaed 
Tlcservoii' (see oitiiosite piitjel or Contact Tank on left hand end of Uanse. . , , 

The Royal Jewel ii as peifeet as it is possible to make a RaiiKe. It is handsome in 
appearance, works perfectly, and is fully guaranteed. 

The Coal Kire-Rox is made eithci' deep or shallow. A se))arate \\ood Hre-Hox can 
be supplied. Waterfronts and Thermoinelers s-i ppUed when ro(|uired. 



JEWEL STOVES AND RANGES. 



The Royal Jewel Steel Range 

Is the latest and best, complete in every de- 
tail, construction perfect A Range of quality 




ROYAL JEWKL, R, STYLE E. 

Millie ill .six sizes and a great variety of styles. 



Ni., 


Si/c of (l\ I'll 


<[■/,'■ ui' ( (i:il Kirc-Ho\ 


I.eiiM 


tlidl' WdoiI Kill -1 


iox 


81t) 


1(( X 2iKi> X IS 


IS X 7 X S) 




2() iiujhes 




»l(i 


l(i X 2(1', X i:{ 


IS X 7 X 1) 




2(i iiiclii'S 




SIS 


IS X -jtii, X i;{ 


lS.',x 7.',x 5)', 




2(! inch' s 




ids 


IS X 2(1.', X VA 


IS.i.x T.'.x !»'. 




21) iiiclu's 




!)20 


20 X 22 X U 


lll.'.x !) X |(» 




2S iiiclit's 




!>22 


22 X 22 X U 


l!t.-x U X lU 




28 inclu's 





The Oven is made of one piece of heavy cold rolled steel, thoroughly braced 
with cast iron to prevent warping. 



Bl 



RROW. STFAVART & MILNE CO., LTD. 



Soups 

Tomato Soun -One quart of toniMtoos, cannpcl or raw : one quart of water. 
Stew till soft. 'A.ld n teasiu-onful of so.la, allow the n.ass to effervesce, and 
Zn a.ld a quart of n.ilk ami a few rnukers rolled fine, with salt, butter and 
jiepper to suit. 

Corn Soup-In niakinR soup where meats are umhI, it is always well to 
boil the meat "he day before it is wanted. This gives time lor the lat to rise and 
be removed. Then to a quart of good .-^t.nk a.ld a i^int ot grated corn cook hl- 
teen minutes and stir in a quart of boiling milk. 'Hiicken with •- tablespoon ul 
„f butter rubbed smooth with two teaspoontuls of flour. Season o taste with 
salt and iieiiper. Boil three or f<nir minutes and then serve while liot 

Chicken and Oyster Soun--A very delicious soup is prepared as I'-Hows :- 
Pluck and cut up a. medium-sized fowl as for frieasseeing Coyer with water, 
an cook slowlv,' removing the scum as it rises. When the chicken is tender 
take it up, strain the broth and return it to the kettle. ' li."'? .f ""W^'?, J 
quart of (he broth, whi<h can be eked out with boiling water if it has boi ed 
awav. Add a quart of oysters with their juice, and tlie same amount of scald ng 
„,ilk. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and a little mace and nutmeg i the 
flavor is liked. Thicken with a teaspo,.nful of flour and butter rubbed together, 
and just before it is served stir half a teacu).ful of hot cream into the soup. 

Clam Soun- Bring quickly to a boil the liquor irom thirty large clams, to 
which has been added three quarts of water. Add the clams, fine y minced, and 
boil iust three minutes. Stir in quickly four taVlespoontuls each of flour and 
flutter rubbed together, a pint of milk, salt and pepper to taste. Remove from 
the fire and stir in three weU-beaten eggs and serve. 






" JEWEL " Stoves and Ranges are as near perfection as 
modern mechanical skill, modern machinery, modern con- 
structive methods, d the best of material can make them. 

Green Pea Soun-^Four pounds of lean beef cut in small pieces, half a peck 
of g leen peas, a gallon of water : b.oil empty pods of peas in water one hour 
s ri^in out add hv.i and boil slowly one and <.ne-half hours; half an '^our befou 
serving stiain out meat, add peas; salt and pepper to taste, and if you like add 
one teaspoon of sugar and a little thickening. 

Chicken Cream Soup -Boil an old fowl with an onion, in four quarts of 
cold water until their reuiains but two .-.uarts. Take it ou and let it g«t co Id 
Cut off the whole of the breast and chop very fine. Mix w^ith the pounded yolks 
of two hard-boiled eggs and rub tlirough a colander. Cool, skim and strain he 
s.,up into a soup p.U Sea.son, add the dmken and egg mixture, simmer ten 
minutes and iK.ur into the tureen. Then add a small <'up of boiling milk. 

Veal SouD- To about three pounds of a i.nnt of veal, which must be well 
broken u.., put four .piarts of water and set it over to boil. Prepare one-fourth 
pound of macaroni bv boiling it by itself witi, sullicient water to cover it; add a 
little butter to tlie macaroni when it is tender, strain the soup and season to 
taste with salt and pej-per, then add the ma<>aroni in the water in which it is 
boiled The addition of a iiint of rich milk o. cream and celery flavor is relished 



by many. 



Meats 



Collops ol Cold Meats- 'Icke remnants of cold roast beet, mutton or veal; 

cut them into pieces about three inches thick and four inches long. Roll them 
in flour and fry brown in butter or drippings; then lay them m a saucepan 



S JEWEL STOVES AND RANGES. 

The Arctic Jewel Steel Range 

FOR HARD OR SOFT COAL OR WOOD. 

A New Modern Four Hole Steel Ran^e, made specially to meet the demand 
for a small Steel Range AT V VEKY MODERATE PRICE. 




(Style E, with Cabinet Base and High Closet) 

The Arctic Jewel is supplied with (iaivanized Iron Tank, but Copper Tank 
can be supplied at a small uJdiliunal cost. 

Made in three sizes, Nos. Slfi, 916 and 918. The Arctic presents a good 
appearance, bakes perfectly and is fully guaranteed. 



BURROW, STEWART & MILNE CO., LTD. 



:9 



nd 



vvith half an onion minced line, bntter the sizo of an egg mixed smooth with a 
Tea poonfnl of flour and a little pepper and salt. Pour over a pint of brown 
gmw cover and simmer, but do not boil. When the moat is very tender squeeze 
in the juice of lialf a lemon. Stir thoroughly and then serve. 

Pot Roast-Take a good rump of beef-say five pounds, put it in an iron 
pot, pour over one cup of vinegar and one of ^vater season with one «nion, pep- 
^r and salt to taste. Cover with close hd and let it steam until it bods dry^ 
Turn the -leat. and let it roast till broNvn, then add one pint of hot water. Mix 
one f-L' on of flour and a small lump of butter; stir into the wat^r to form 
the gru This will take about two hours in all to cook. 

BriiiJed Lamb Chops-Have the chops nicely trimmed, leaving a bit of 
lK,ne bare at the ends; season nicely with salt and pepper, dip «/^ch one first in 
l>eaten ea'r, then in bread or cracker crumbs, and fry to a delicat* brown m hot 
kid These make a very pretty lunch dish if laid around a little mould of 
mashed and browned potatoes. A garni.sh of curled parsley adds to the effect. 

Ham Omelette— Mince very fine the remnants of a knuckle of ham— a lit-tle 
fat with the lean is not objectionable. For a teacupful or less of the minced 
ham beat four or five eggs light, add a small pinch each of salt and pepper 
and a large tablespoonful of milk for each egg used. Pour it intfl a hot but- 
tered spi.^ -r and when it begins to stiffen strew over it the chopped ham. When 
done, turn one half over the other and take up carefully with a knife so as not 
to break it. . 

Pressed Meat— This is made from the feet, hearts and tongues of pigs. 
Wash and scrape the feet, cut the heart open and remove any blood found in 
them, scald and scrape the tongues, peeling thejn when cooked. Boil aU until 
the lK)nes can easily be pulled from the feet. Keep a quantity of liquor m the 
vessel and add salt while the meat is cooking. When done, remove from the 



ank 

[ood 



We are continually improving and adding to the " JEWEL " 
line of Stoves and Ranges. They are kept right up to the mark 
in every respect. 

liquor, pick the bones from the feet and chop all the cooked meat together ; sea- 
son with pepper, salt and a dust of celery-salt and mix enough ot he liquid 
with it to mkke it quite moist, lor the hquor ^^.li become jelly when ^W- Place 
in a crock, with alternate layers of hard boiled eggs sliced fine ; set aside under a 
weight to stiffen. When used, cut in thin slices. Serve cold, with or without 
vinegar, or with salid dressing. 

Fried Ham and Apples-Cut the ham in thin slices and fry to a nice 
brown. Take it up and keep it hot, while you fry in the fat left in the pan some 
juicy apples that have been cut in thick, round slices, without peeling. Cook 
slowly until the apples are well done, then sprinkle sugar on them and let them 
stand long enough to dissolve the sugar; then take up the apples either in a 
dish by themselves or laid on the ham, which should previously be cut into con- 
venient pieces for serving. 

Beef Roll— Two pounds of chopped beef, one cup of roUed crackera, one 
cup of sweet miik, one egg, salt and pepper. Mix thoroughly and make it ma 
roU. Pour two cups of boiling water over it. Bake about two hours in a mod- 
erate oven. 

Baked Fresh Tongue— Boil a fresh tongue until tender, then skin and dip 
in beaten egg, and roll in bread or cracker crumbs. Lay in a greased pan, and 
bake thirty minutes. Baste frequently with butter. For a gravy, use a tea- 
cupful of the broth it was boiled in, season to taste with butter, pepper, salt and 



10 



JEWEL STOVES AND RANGES. 



.iusu].. Cainish Ihv (li>li i.n xvl.ich tliu tonniu' is hiid with parsley or slices of 
lemon if vou liave tli"in, and serve hot. 

Meat .Icily— A kiiucUle of veal, one pound of beefsteak from the round, 
thrre i.ints of xvat.T (.old) ; l.oil, after skiminini;, five or six hours, then take out 
tlie i.ieat, and seiiarate it from the bones and 5,'ristlo ; cut it into sma 1 pieces 
with knife and fork, and return it to the liquor: season with salt and pepper 
(adding celery salt if at;reeable) ; heat once more and pour into mould. l!.at 
cold. . 

Roast Beef Heart 'i'his is a very cliea.p di.sh, and with care in the cook- 
in- may Ik' made veiv palitable. Wash the heart carefully, removing the carti- 
I'l^ineoiis parts Sniff with diessinii i-iepared as for roast turkey, season with 
vnmev and sail, and roast in a moderate oven two hours or less, according to 
size, basting frcpiently. When taken up. tliicken the -ravy and serve while 
very hot. 

Stewed Lamb Chons-Cut three pounds of chops from a loin of lamb, trim 
and i.ut on to stew in" iust enom,'h water to come around, but not over them. 
Remove the skum as it 'rises, and keep veil covered : when very tender, season 
with salt an<l i.eppei' "H^l thicken with a tablespoontul each oi flour and butter 
rubbed together. Have r-ady on a platter a few slices of buttered, evenly 
browned toast, lay the pieces of meat on the toast and pour the gravy over all. 

Savory Beef— Take three or four pounds of raw steak, or a shin of beef, 
cut it into small iiieces and sjilit the l(me. Put on to boil in water enough to 
come up around but not over the meat. Cover, and cook very tender, or until 
tlie meat drops from the bones; then skim it out, chop fine and season to taste 
with salt pepper, ground cloves, sage, and as you like with thyme or summer 



Very few of the good things of life can be had without look- 
ing for them. If you want a good Stove or Range (the best on 
the market) don't go to a Hardware Store and buy one with 
your eyes shut. Keep your eyes wide open, and buy one that 
has a reputation, one that is FULLY GUARANTEED, one that 
exhibits all the best features of stove construction. In short, 
buy a " JEWEL " and be perfectly satisfied. 



savorv Place it in a deep dish and pour over the liquor in which the meat was 
cooked. WHien cool .md stiff, cut ir.to thin slices as used ; to be eaten cold, blim 
bones supply gelatine en.n.gh to compact the meat. If round steak if used a 
tablespoonful or two of gelatine (or more if the quantity is large) should be dis- 
solved in the meat litpier to give firmness when cold. 

Veal Patties— Cut portions of the leg or breast of veal into very small 
nieces and stew fifteen to twenty minutes; then season with. salt and pepper and 
with a little finc-lv chopi)ed c^elery, if you have it. Stir to a paste a tabkspoontui 
each of flour ancl bxtter and the yolk of an egg, and mix this with the veal. 
Add milk enough to make a thin batter. Scald the mixture and itj is ready for 
the patties For the crust make either a yiuff paste or a rich, flaky crust, tlie 
same as lor tarts Roll out and cut the under crust the size of small sauce plates 
and the upper ones a little smaller. Rake in large tart pans, and when done care- 
fuDv raise the uiiper crusi or covers and put i' a large tep,poontul of the past*, 
lay the covers over and serve. Small stewed oysters may be used in exactly the 
same way, in place of the veal. 

Meat Balls— Chop very fine any reiniiants of cold veal, beefsteak or roast 
beef or poultry, and to eaJh teacupful of the chopped meat add the same amount 



BURROW. STEWART & MILNE CO., LTD 



11 



of bread .rurnhs rulh-d fino. Season Nvith ,HT|H>i' ^nul s.U and mo.st<>n yth haf 
a teacupful of the moat ,,-avies. <.r xvilh nulk. Add also a tables,. con ful of but- 
er and if liked a tableso.Mmfnl of onion .iuiee, or a very little sln'od onion, and 
The volks o! two -K^s. Mix thoroughly and make into balls or httle cakes, and 
fry in meat drijii.injis or in lard or butter, as preferred. 

Veal Sweetbread -Sliie. juit in cold watev, drain and plaee in a skillet 
i.renared foi hot dripping's ; when brown cm under side then turn ; make a stitt 
bLttor of two o^'«s. half a pint ..f milk, flour to thieken and salt to ta.t^ and into 
it dip eaeh slice : return to the skillet and fry brown over a moderate fire. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton-Put muttn in boilinp; water w'ith a small piece 
of pork and boil, allowing from fifteen to twenty minutes for each pound of 
meat • make a sauce of draNNn butter, putting in hard boiled eggs sliced and 



capers. 



Poultry 



Pressed Chicken-Cut up the chicken and boil until v<.ry tender in a little 
water with salt and pepper to taste, and a piece of butter. \\Me still warm 
take out all the l)ones and chop the meat rather hne Thicken the gravy VMth a 
little flour and mix well with the cho,.pe(l .hicken. Put all m a deep dish, press 
down firmly, and set away until v,<'rf<.ctly cold, 1 urn from the di.sh and cut 

in slices. ■ n j- 

Fried Chicken-Cut up vour chicken, wash and dry the pieces well, dip 
them all over in flour. Have" hot laid or butter ready, put the pieces in and let 
them fry to a liiiht brown; then take them out and keep theni hot. Add some 
sweet cream to the gravy, a large pie.n^ ..f butter rubbed in flour, and a little 
salt. Boil up and pour over the chicken, or give the chicken one good boil in it. 
Chicken Pie— Prepare two young cliickens as for stewing, cook them in 
sufficient water to leave enough for gravy. Mason to taste with siilt and pepper, 
and when tender skim out the chi.ken and thicken the gravy with flour previ- 
ously wet with a little water and beat smooth to prevent lumps. Line the sides 



A Steel Oven all in " One Piece " is quicker in its action, 
therefore better for baking Cakes, Pastry, etc. 

of a tin basin or pudding dish with a rich soda biscuit crust, rolled one-quarter 
inch thi.-k. Lay the pieces of chicken in it ;o as to form as uniform a surface as 
possible, add a little more sea,soning. if needed, then hi the dish with the gravy. 
Cover with a crust one quarter inch thick, leaving a d^ep gash in the centre for 
the escape of steam. S*-t in a moderate oven to bake. An hour will sufhce for 
baking, unless very large. S<,ine place a layer of potatoes and a few bits of 
celery'^in the pie, while others prefer the chicken alone. 

Broiled Chicken— Pick carefully, singe and draw. Split down the back, 
wash and wit.e dry. Lav the chicken on the table, flatten the breasts and joints 
and fold down the wings. Lay it <m a greased gridiron, a folding wire one to 
hold the meat in place is best. Broil over coals, watching carefully and turning 
often to avoid scorching and to cook all parts evenly ; baste freqtien ly with 
melted butter. When nicely brown on all sides, put on a platt«', sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, and pour over the melted butter used m basting Garnish with 
curled parsley, if you have it. and you have a dish unsurpassed for delicacy. 

Chicken Pie— Cut up two voung chickens, place in hot water enough to 
cover (as it boils away add more, so as to have enough for the pie and for gravy 
to serve with it), boil" until tender ; line the sides of a four or six-quart pan with 
a rich baking powder or soda biscuit dough a quarter oi an inch Inick ; putm 
pajt of the chicken, season with salt, pepper and butter, lay in a few thin strips 



12 



JEWEL STOVES AND RANGES. 



Dominion Jewel Cast Range 

FOR HARD OR SOFT COAL OR WOOD. 

WITH OR WITHOUT RESERVOIR 




(Style F, with Reservoir and Steel Higli Closet) 



Plain with Loose Nicliel, Removable for Cleaning Purposes. 

The Dominion Jewel is made in four sizes, both plain as above or w th 
carved castings. It is elegant in design and perfect in operation. Sliding 
Duplex Grates for coal. Separate Wood Linings supplied. 

Made in a great variety of styles. 



BURROW, STKWAUI' k MILNK CO.. LTD. 



13 



or squares of dough, add tho rest of the rliick<^n, season i.s lu-forp : some add fivo 
or six fiesh eggs. Season licjuor in which the chickens were boded with butter, 
salt and pepper, add a part of it to the pie, cover with crust a quarter ot i^" '•' -" 
thick with a hole in the centre the size of a teacup. Keep adding to the chi(;ken 
liquor as needed. There can scarcely be too much gravy. Hake one hour in a 
moderate oven. To make a gravy, add to the liquor left m the pot (if not enough 
add liot water) a tablespoonful of butter mi.xed to a paste with the same quantity 
of flour, and season with pepper and salt. This should l)e stirred a little at a 
time into liquor; let it boil up and serve. 

Roast Duck-Wash and dry the ducks carefully. Make a. stufTing of sage 
and <.ni<m; insert, and sew up completely that the seasoning may not escape. I 
tender, ducks do not require more than an hour to roast Keep them well basted 
and a few minutes Wfore serving dredge lightly with flour, to make them froth 
and look plump. Send to the table hot. with n good brown gravy poured not 
round but over them. Accompany with currant j<'lly and. it in season, green 

Chicken Pie with Ovsters-l'.oil the chicken- a year old cliicken is the 
best-until tender, line the dish with a nice crust, put in the chicken se-a^'ni with 
salt, pepper and butter; add the liquor in which tb.. chicken was boiled ( he e 
shodld not be more than one pint), cover loosely with a crust having a slit c^t 
each wa.y in the middle Drain off the liquor trom a quart of oysters bod. skim, 
season with butter, pepper, salt, and thickening of flour and ^^^ater. bod up once 
and pour over the oysters, and about twenty minutes before the pie is done lift 
the crust and put them in. , , . 

Chickens for Lunch- Split a y<.ung chicken down the buck, wash and w^ipe 
dry, season with salt and y.ei.per. Put in a dripping pan and place in a mo. e.- 
at« oven; bake three-quarters of an hour. This is mmh bctt..r for lunch than 
when seasoned with butter. 



In the process of manufacturing Stoves and Ranges there 
are innumerable details which must be carefully watched to 
insure good results, and these are attained in the " JEWEL " 
line of Stoves and Ranges. 

Chicken Patties-!\lince chicken that has been previously roa^sted or boiled, 
and season wdl stir into this a sauce made of half a pint of nulk mto which, 
while Jd ng a teaspoonfid of corn starch has been added t« thicken ; seaso 
ithbXr' about a teaspoonful, and salt and pepper to taste. «-/« >«^^^> 
smaU pans lined with a go<,d puff paste. Hake the crust m a b^ck oven, then 
fiU the pans and put in the oven a few minutes to brown .si ghtiy. 

Eggs 

Minced Meat with Poached Eggs-Chop cold "^^^^ '' V"; ,'1'^''^' ;7";;"^ 
all bits of fat and gristle. Warm m a saucepan with a 1 ttle gravy, oi ii 
neither this nor soup stock is obtainable, moisten the meat with a httle boding 
watei in which a dessertspoonful of butter has been melted. Season to taste^ 
Cu he crust from square slices of bread, toast and butter lightly, and heap 
a gen rous spoonful of the mince upon each piece. Set cove^^ed -n -J^ot place 
while vou poach as many eggs as there are people to be supplied. Lay one on 
top of rach^mound of mince' dust over with pepper and salt, and serve very hot. 

Baked Eggs-Butter a dish and break into it as many eggs as will cover 
the bottom, sit in the oven and bake till the whites are cooked ; add a piece of 
butter, pepper and salt ; stir in quickly and serve. 



u 



JEWEL STOVES AND RANGES. 



Egg Gems— Mix (■h<.i)i>ed nioiit, bread crunihs, snlt, pejip.T. Initt^r and a 
little milk; fill som<- biiltcrod ccni pans with tlic ini.xtui<\ liivak an prK citrpfiilly 
upon the top of oaih K*-in, sprinkle a little salt, |..'p|ier and bread crumbs upon 
each ogg, and bake eight minutes. Serve hot. 

Rumbled nggs-Heat up three cjius with two ounces of fresh or washed 
butter ; add a teaspoon of cream or fresh milk ; jiut in a saucepan and keep stir- 
ring over the fire for five minutes, or till it lises; dish on toast. 

Fish 

Codfish and Potatoes Pick up one teacujiful of codfish, let it soak in 
lukewarm water while vou mix two cups of cold mashed potatoes with one pint 
of sweet milk, two egRS, a good-sized lump of butter, and jtepper and salt it 
necessary; then add the codfish, mix all well and bake in a Inittered pudding 
dish for'from twenty-five minutes to half an hour. Serve hot. 

Baked Herring -Take salt herrings, soak them over night, roll in flour and 
butter, and place in a dripping pan with a very little xvater over them; .season 
with pepper. 

JEWELS ! JEWELS ! JEWELS ! All jewels are prized 
according to their value, but it is probable that the " JEWELS " 
manufactured by Burrov/, Stewart & Milne Co., Ltd., give more 
genuine satisfaction to their possessors than any other kind. 



Fish Chowder-T'he best fi.sh for chowder are haddock and striped bass, 
although any kind of fresh fish may be used. Cut in pieces over an inch thi<>k 
and two inches square; take eight good sized slices ot salt pork, pu >» t'''' »"'\ 
torn of an iron po* and fry till cri.sp ; remove the j.ork, leaving the tat : chop hue 
put in the pot a laver of fish, a layer .)f split crackers, and some of the chopped 
^rk, black and red pepper, and chopped onions : then another layer ot hsh 
another of crackers and seasoning, and so on. Cover wi h water and stew slo^^ly 
till the fish is perfectly done; remove from the pot and put m a dish in which 
you serve it; keep it hot, and thicken the gravy with rolled crackers or floui ; 
boil the gravy up once and pour over the chowder. 

Fish Balls-Take equal quantities of cooked fisli <,f any kind, chopped 
fine, and mashed potato ; add a beaten egg and a tab espoontul ot '"';^ '^'Ij;" *«; ; 
mix and mash well with a wooden spoon; roU the balls in flour and fry them 
with salt pork and a little lard or beef fat, gradually browning them. 

Salmon Cutlets-Cut the slices one inch thick and season them with pep- 
per and salt; butter a sheet of white paper lay each slice on ^f^.parate piece 
with their ends twisted ; boil gently over a dear fire and serve ^^'tl'/n^ho^ J*^ 
caper sauce. When higher seasoning is required, add a few chopped herbs and 
a little spice. . j 

Baked Whiteflsh-Fill the fish with a stuffing of fine bread crumbs and 
a little butter; sew up the fish ; sprinkle with butter, pepper and salt. Dredge 
wHh flour and bake one honr, basting often and serving with par.sley or egg 

sauce. . , , , 11 

Baked Fish-The pan in which the fish is baked should have a rack to 
keep it out of the water, or several mnflin rings may be u.^ed. After cleaning and 
drymg carefully, pass a skewer through the head body and a,l of the fi.h, torm- 
ing it into a figui^ S; place in a hot pan, sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour 
bSte frequently ^vit.h butter and water, and bake for an hour and a halt if the 



BURROW, STEWART & MILNE CO., LTD. 



15 



'ustard it is done.'which should be in about five nnnutes. place the fish on a hot 
dish, pour sauce over it, garnish with parsley and serve. 

Baked Codfish- Soak the fish over night; m the "^o-^n'^S P"^ 'Vni„t S 

cut up a hard-boiled egg. 

Oysters 

Escallooed Oysters-Prepare either bread crumbs or rolled crackers in 
X It ?, 1 Cthe .rvsters Place a layer of crumbs in the bottom of a pudding 
S en a h 'e of oysters season Jth salt, pepper and bits of butter. Put .n 
i S^rs^ifn^umbsf oysters, etc., untU the dish is^f^^J "^f -f.^rwith 
Pmir thfi ovster liquor on as the layers are added, and lasUj, nil tne a'^n wiui 
ni k and se^t n a hot oven. Cover for t«n or fifteen minutes, t^en remove it and 
bake the top to a delicate brown. Thirty to forty mmutes are sufficient for bak- 
ing unless the dish is large. 

"KEEPING EVERLASTINGLY AT IT BRINGS SUCCESS" 
The " JEWEL " line of Stoves and Ranges offers such an 
immense variety of styles and sizes that we can supply every 
possible want. Our Stoves are nearer perfection than any others 
produced. . 

I ittle Pius in Blankets-Select a dozen or more, large-sized oysters, drain 

tered toast, and serve hot. „„„„,Ji„„ «« 

Creamed Oysters-Take equal amounts of oysters and cr«am, accord mg as 

wanted For a pint of each, cut a smaU piece of omon very fn^ ("^«««Ji«^ 



u\ 



JEWEL STOVES AND UAN()E8. 



STERLING JEWEL RANGE 

rOR HARD OR SOIi COAF. OR WOOD 

A HRJII CLASS PAST IRON RANOE OK MEDIUM SIZE, 
MODEUATE IN rUICE, 

Steel Oven— Duplex (irate 




\ 



i 



Square, with Tea Shell and End Shell 



The Sterling Jewel is a flrstclass Range in every respect, at a very mod- 
erate price. 

The Range is made in two sizes, Nos. 819 and 919. The 819 has four 8-lnch 
and two 7 inch pot holes. The 919 has four 9 inch and two 6=inch pot holes. 

The Oven is made of one piece of heavy cold rolled SHEET STEEL of the 
very best quality. The Clean Out is directly under the front ol oven and is 
very easily got at. Size of oven 19x18x12 inches. Oven Door Thermometer 
can be supplied when desired. 

This Range can be fitted with a very powerful waterfront for heating water. 



BURROW, STEWART k MIF.NE CO., LTD. 



r 



\ 



'^ 



I mod* 

8-incb 
lies. 

of the 
and is 
ometer 

water. 



a (rvinir basket and Bot in boiling fat. Cook to a delicate brown ; then tak6 up on 
unKlami parKT t.. absorb any fat that nmy still clinf,' I'-.th.-.n. Ko.-p it. a warm 
pla.e until all are cc^.ked. then garnisii th<« <lish on which tlit-y uro seivfd with 
curled parsley or sHcbh of lemon. 

OvHter Pie- Pri'P'^»'<' "^ ""ich crust or a i)uff paste, line the sides and bot- 
tom of a pudding dish : fill it with piccns of bread or crackers, and cover with 
a thick crust well grpased or buttered at the edK<'S so rs to separate easily. L5ake 
to a very delicate bi-own. Then carefully loosen the edges, .einove the top crust, 
tl' a empty out the baked crusts to be used for other purpo.s«.s. Have the oysters 
pr. .ared and sejisoned as for a nice stew and cooked enough to b.. most palitable 
and digestible just when the crust is done. Pour these m, replace the upper 
crust, and serve at once. 

Oyster Fritters -Drain off liquor; boil, skim and to a cupful add a cup 
of milk, two or three eggs, salt and ympiKM', and flour enough to make a rather 
thick batter. Have hot lard or beef drijipings in a skdlet ready. Jrop the batter 
into it with a huge spiwn, taking up one oyster for each spoonful. Ihe oysters 
must he large .and plump. 

The system of Oven Ventilation employed in the construc- 
tion of nearly all " JEWEL " Cooking Stoves and Ranges is as 
simple as it is perfect in operation. Behind the oVen door panel, 
and operated by a projecting handle, is a register. When this 
register is thrown open fresh air is introduced into the oven to 
replace the heated and vitiated air that passes out through small 
holes into the back flue, thence to the chimney. This system of 
oven ventilation (which is merely an application of the \yeii- 
known principle that as the hot air rises fresh rushes in to take 
its place) will commend itself particularly to those who fail to 
understand the complications of other systems, which, theoretic- 
ally operating in opposition to the principles of heat mentionea, 
do not operate at all. 

Salads 

Cabbage -One quart of finely chopped cabbage (the white brittle centre is 
the l.est), two eggs, one teaspoonful each of mustard sugar salt and pepper 
one-hdf '.up of vWr, one-third cup of butter, and one-half ^"P « . .«;^^««^ 
cream. Mix the condiments dry, add the vinegar, and put over hot water to 
cook. When hot, add the eggs, beaten light, and cook tdl as thick as cream. 
Add the cream, then mix cabbage and dressing together. 

Potato-Slice eight cold boiled potatoes into a tray, and add one large 
onion to the eight potatoes. Chop fine and add four hard-boiled eggs Jake a 
dressing of five tablespoonfuls of vinegar to three tablespoonfuls o od, one- 
quarter spoonful of pepper, and one of salt; pour this on the vegetables and 
serve with lettuce. 

Potato-Cut in dice shapes cold beets and potatoes, and place on lettuce 
leaves in your dish ; over this pour three tablespoonfuls of od and dressing made 
of French mustard, salt, pepper and vinegar to make a paste ; lay this on top ot 

all .and serve. • . -i i 

Salmon-Set a can of salmon in a kettle of boiling water, let it bod twenty 
minutes; take out of can, pour off the oil, .arid put in a deep dish; Put a, few 
cloves iiJ and around it, sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover with cold vinegar 
and let it stand a day ; take out of the vinegar and put in a salad dish. Prepare 
a dieb.ing as follows : :Mash the yolks of two hard-boded eggs as fine as pos- 



18 



JEWEI- STOVES AND RANGES. 



THE GRAND JEWEL 



Id tt new Cofil iiinl Wood Cook of llu- IiIkIi- 
citf <Imss. It is llllftl Willi (I comMiialion 
Fit yox for t'lther coal oi' wood. 

fhf largf •'■'I "I"' oven is of oiir standard 
on pie<;e Hheet H««'*'l •'on'^t ruction. 

nu> top isniadr iti four ^■••cti^lns and lias 
four'wMnch p..l holes with wido (•.■nli.'s. 
Mad*' squaie with end shclr or with reser- 
voir (A* cut). 




CllUld .Irwcl Colli MU(1 U'onil t.H.k 




THE HOME JEWEL has been on the 



market lor some time and lias |)ioved itself 
I very em<'ii'nt and reliable stove. 

This stove is nicely nickel plated and 
presents a very nice appearance. 

Tlu' I'Mie-Hox is lilted with our im- 
proved Duplex (Jrates, which are the most 
^ ^ salisfactorv ^'ratea yet produced. No extra 

„o„u.jl-elCo.Uun.lVV.,o.lC..oU grates requiied for burning wood. 

The GRAND JEWEL WOOD COOK 

is the most popular wood cook stove 
ever made. 
The oven is made of one piece of 
heavy cold-rolled sheet steel which is 
Hrmly attached to the cast iron body of 
stove. Tliere are no joints at the corners. 
Made in four sizes, either with or 
without reservoir. 




(inuidJowfl Wood Cook 




THE NEW FAMILY JEWEL 

is a medium sized wood cook stove of very 

handsome appearance, perfect in operation 

and moderate in price. 

The oven is large and scpiare and iiakes 

perfectly. 

The Fire-Box takes a stick ol wood J^ 

inches long. 



h'aiiiily .Jewel Wood Cook 



ALL JEWEL STOVES are hand'^ome in appearance, 
perfect in operation, and give every sa^trf-ction. 




BUnUOW. S'l'KW.VUT *; MILNK CO , I^TD. 



It) 



I ( '.ink 






Mble, wit»i the hn,k ..!■ ft silver sp.H.n. a.ld tho yolks of two raw eRRB, one by 
VyoatinK t vo n.inut.'s .-a.!, tin..', niM i;ni(l.inll,v a tnlilcspdonfiil of made mu«t 
.1 „.■ i.,..i I.,.. I.... ,>,. th.. hnu s:ilii<l oil. a. littlo salt and t>flp|)pr and vin 



. one, 

iti's .-aili tinii', add urndiiniiv a iaiiics|i<H)iiiiii >ji inu.ic inudtard, 
ihmVof'i:u"ltV.d In.tt.r or tho l.f>sl salmi oil. a littlo salt and [Hipper and v.neRar 
(or lemon jui.e) to last... Hoa( the inixtiin. a lon« time and pour upon tho sal- 
mon. Garnish under the bottom with spriKH of f.'lery. 

Celery Chop threo bunchos of .•.•lory fino with a sniall head of ''at>bage. 
Take a traruptnl ot vino, >, tho yolks of two cr - , .■. tal=l."spoonful of buUer. 

„ne teaspoonll .h of m„ mH and salt, one tall r" "1 "f ^"K;'/- .'J"^ ^.P'"*^,^ 

of rav.nno Miv thoso ii...;i..dit;nts t<.;;otlH'r sm., luiv, heat until it begins .o 
thick.' , stir until partly r..,l, th.-n ..Id two tahlospoonfuls of swoot .'ream. J our 
It ov... the salad just lofo, Mking it to tho tal,lo. If thicker than dosirod. add 
more vinegar. 

Pastry Pies 

Sauash Hoil tl.o s-iuash until vwl! done ami sift through a .olander. To 
every tea.upful ol ,-..|unsh add oiio oi;^. one half teadipful of susar, one tea- 
spoonful ..f (lour, .mo hall toa.^.o, n, ,1 of Rincer. a little nulnioi^ and a dash of 
allspi.e: add onoupli milk to make it the ri«ht o.insistancy for bakinR. A tew 
spwmfuls of pure, swoot .roam are onnsidorod a Kioat addition. 

Mince- -Thieo p.mnds of .hoi.pod l)eof, one half p..und of suot , five po'JnfJs 
of chopped ai.plos. f,vo ....mids of .•urrants. four poim.ls of raisin, put in whole, 
one half pomid of .itron (shnd.lod fine), throe pounds o brown ^ugai-, fc^pu^' « 
of m.ilasses. two vsine glasses of hrai.dy (if yo" ^'^^^- <^" l'"""'^"' "^ ''^'l''*' 

If people but knew how much care is given to the manufac- 
ture of " Jewel " stoves and Ranges they would then under- 
stand why these goods are the best. 

iellv (anv iellv will do), fix talU'spoonfuls of oinnamon, one ounce of RinRer, 
Ln ounoVs'«t\'loves. one ouno.' oa. h of ma... and allspuo two ounces o salt, 
one nutmeg, three lemons (grate tho ..utsi.lo and use the juu-M on pint "f^^ater 
.me can ot' fruit (you .an omit the fruit if y<n. wish) : use • -Id coffee or extra 
wetting. Tbi.-; makes al out thr.^c gallor.s, and is delicious. Cook until the 
apiilos are thoroughly done. 

Lemon ^.Tuice and gvat.d rind .)f one lemon, one .up of .-igar, the yolks of 
tiiroo o.-s well hoalen. small piece of butter, thi.'o tallespon; nils of milk tA\o 
teaspoonhils of .■.,rn stai.h = boat all t.,g<.lhor an.l V ako in a n> n ^'"f • ^ea^ *'^« 
whites with throe tablospo,.nfuls of sugar, spread .m the pie when done, and 
lir.iw II in tho oven 

Oranae and Apple -Cover a deep pie plate or tin with a •.cb crust; over 
i, „l" e a lav," of sliced oranges, with the seeds removed; sc,'.:ter sugar over 
tbi klv. a.ld'a, biver of appb's, more sugar, and a layer of oranges and apples 
I'lgothor ; cover with a .rust and bake until the apples are tender sift powdered 
sugar on the top. and serve hot. 

Apple- It noes without saving that to make a good apple pie • ne needs sour, 
iuicv aPT'les. Tare and slice thin, cover tho ..ie tin or plate witl a good cirust, 
•too Hob, and having in it a littlo baking pov.dor to make it lu, ht and digest- 
Ule. Lav the apples over the under cru.t, strew sugar tjuckly ov with bits of 
butter, flavor with nutmeg or lemon as pieterred and add a little ater (a lej 
spoonfuls onlv), cover and pinch tlie ..ust cl.>rely down to prevent he escape o 
thrruice .Hal; in a moderate ov.m.. Ra,.id baking is much more .kely io boU 
out the juice. . , i jj 

Cream -Put on a jiint of milk to toil, break two eggs into a 1. vl, add one 
rni- nf vhite -u"av one-half .up of flour, and after beatmg well ir into the 
milk just as it commen.es to boil j keep stirring one way tiU : thickens; 



20 



JEWEf. STOVES AND U.\N(!RS. 




IDEAL JEWEL HEATER 



ItASi: Itl ItMJt 
IMM ItLI^: II i:\TEIt 



lOK 
IIAHII COAL 



iti'aiitit'iill.v 

and 
FiiiislM'd 



Propoiiy Fitted 



No liCiikns'o 
or tins 



MADi; WITH OR WITHOUT OVIiN. 

The IDEAL JI-WEL is fitted with Revolving Tire Pot, which can be easily 
removed for repairs. 

The Improved Duplex (Irntes are so made that they cast the clinkers and 
leuve a clear lire at liie bottuni. iirales are easily reniuveil. 

The Stove hag a large Ash Pit and Ash Pan. 



BURROW, STEWART & MILNE CO., LTD. 



21 



TER 



XL 



ly 



H<'d 



so 



: easily 
rs and 



Time When baked and quite warm separate the edges with a knife, lift the 
upper crust and fiU in the cream. 

Cocoanut-One pint of milk, cocoanut, one teacup of sugar, thiee eggs 

Cakes 

Snow-One and a half cu,>fuls of powdered sugar, one cupful of Aouv, one 
large "eTspcSnfulo? c'eam of t'ar.ar, th'e whites of ten eggs, two teaspoonfnls of 

^'""sno.-.te-Fourtcen eggs, the weight of eleven eggs in sugar and the weight 

mixture is re.adv for the oven. 

filntfer Bread-One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one cup of niolasses, 
nr,« ?, n^of sour milk rhroe eggs, one teaspoonful of soda disso ved in the milk, 
threeTuJs of flour, 'one teajocmful of ginger, one teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
Bake in square tint. 

Every " JEWEL " Stove or Range is thoroughly inspected 
before it leaves our works, and we guarantee every one to be 
absolutely free from any defects and to be as perfect as any 
Range can be made, 

Fruit-One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one pound of butter, twelve 

molasses a glas of ^vine and brandy. Bake three hours. 

SDice-Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, four eggs, two-thirds of a c p 
of milk two CUPS of flour, thee teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful 
of "cloves! one t'elspoonful <,f allspicJ, two teaspoonfnls of cinnamon, part of a 

"'Tinker" Purinlo'TleLup one teaspoonful of soda, two tablespoonfuls of 
bake in a quick oven. Measure again for a large baking 

''"''Br'ide Take four pounds of sifted flour, four pounds of sw-eet, fresh butter 
or vanilla extract. 



22 



JEWEL STOVES AND RANGES. 



(lold and Silver--(, old Part : Yolks of eight eggs, scant cup of butter, 

tv o of sugar, four of flour, one of sour milk, n teiisjioonful of soda, a tablespoon- 
tul ot corn starcli ; flavor with lemon or viiiiilla. Silver Part : Two cups of 
sugai', one ot butter, four (scant) of flour, one of sour milk, a teaspoonful of 
soda, a tablespoi.nful of corn starch, the whiff's of eii;ht eggs; flavor with aJmond 
or pe;uh. Put in pan altern.itely one spoonful of gold and one of silver. 

Leni.»ii Jelly- One and a half cups of sugar, a half cup of butt«r ; beat to 
a cream; three eggs well beaten, a half cup of milk, two and a half cups of 
flour, two teasi>o<infuls of baking powd<^r ; bake in layers. .Jelly : One cup of 
sugar, one egg, juiie and grated rind of one lemon, a lialf cup of cold water one 
tal)lesp(X)nful of corn starch. I'lace the dish in boiling water until it thickens 
spread between the layers, ice the to[). " ' 

Caramel— One teacupful each of sugar and of som- cream, three eggs (the 
whites only make a light cake and contrast with the filling), two teacupfuls of 
flour and a teaspoonful of soda. For the filling use one teacupful of brown 
sugai-, enough sweet cream to thoioiighly moisten and dissolve the sugar, and a 
lump of butter as large as a hickory nut. Put this preparation in a small basin 
or cup. set on the lack of the stove until it begins to simmer, then boil until it is 
ropy, when it should le removed from the stove .- teat a few moments and it is 
ready to sjiread between the layers and on top of the cake. 

The users of "JEWEL " Stoves and Ranges are our best 
advertisers. If you wish to learn of their merits, consult those 
who use them. 



Philadelphia Sijon.^e -One cup of pulveri^x-d sugar, one cup of flour, one- 
third cup of sweet milk, three eggs, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one-half 
teaspoonful of soda; beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately and thor- 
ougiily. add the whites LAST, mix and bake in a hot oven. 

Sunny South One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, 
one-half cuj) of milk, the yolks of five eggs, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one- 
half teaspoonful of soda; flavor to taste. 

Puddings 

Lemon-Rice-Boil half a pint of rice in one quart of milk until very soft, 
add to it while hot the yolks of four eggs, grated rind of two and juice of one 
lemon, four tablespoonfuls of sugar and a pinch of salt. If too thick, add some 
cold milk (it should be a little thicker than boiled custard). Beat the whites of 
the eggs very stiff, together with eight tal)les]>oonfuls of sugar and juice of one 
lemon. Spre.-id on the top and brown in a quick oven. To be eaten icy cold. 

Queen of Puddings- One pint of nice fine bread crumbs, one quart of 
milk, one cup of sugar, the yolks of four eggs, the grated rind of one lemon, a 
piece of butter the size of an egg. liake until done, but not watery. Beat the 
whites of the eggs very stiff, together with a teacupful of sugar and the juice of 
one lemon. Spread over the pudding a layer of fruit or jelly, spread the whites 
of the eggs over tiiis and brown in a quick oven. To be eaten hot or cold. 

Cocoanut and Tapioca— Soak three tablesjKyonfuls of tapioca in cold water 
over night, toil one quart of milk, add tapioca and boil five minutes; then add 
the yolks of four eggs and three table.spoimfuls of dessicated cocoanut; boil ten 
minutes, turn into a dish to cool, flavor. Beat the wjiites of the eggs and two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar to a foam, spread this on the top of the pudding and 
scatter cocoanut over it. Set in an oven to brown a little. 

Berry— Fill a [Uidding dish half full with canned blackberries or raspberries 
,aiid make a biscuit crust for the top. Bake and .serve with a VioiieU s^.ac* flavor- 
ed with the berry juice. 



JE 






BURROW, STEWART & MILNE CO., LTD. 



23 



JEWEL HEATING STOVES 



FOR EVERY 

PURPOSE 






MODKUN JKWKT. 

Basu Hurner. for hard 

coal, made with or 

without oven. 



ACME JKAVEL 

A most effective and 

satisfactory heater. Made 

with return liue or diiert 

draft. Burns hard coal. 



STAND AUn JKWEI.! 

Smoke consu'uinK double 

heat ins eoal stove. 

A very powerful heatef 

and very eas,- on fuel. 




.JEWEL OAK 
A verv ellective heater. 

Made in three siz«s. 
Burns hard or soft coal. 






FIRE KING 
For halls, churcheR, school 
'sss^ houses etc. The most 

noworfiil heater constructed. 
GUAND JEWEL HEATER P"^^"^'"' 

Burns hard or soft coal. 
The oven is very convenient. 





JEWEL TRIPLE HEATER 

One of the most power- 
ful wood lieaters 
ever conslruetod. 



LITTLE GIANT 

A very powerful wood 

heater. Has two collar^ to 

which piiH's oan be attiiched. 



HICKORY AIR TIGHT 

Solid front with screw 

dampers. 

Larpc swiuK top. 

Will kecii lire all niBht. 



24 



JEWEL STOVES AND RANOES 



A USEFUL ADJUNCT TO THE KITCHEN 



IS A 



SCALE 



I'or the proper inoportioniiigof ingredients. We are makers of 

a Most Complete Line. No housewife sh.nild be without 

either one, to weigli small quantities, or one large 

enough to weigh a barrel of flour. 




No Weights J{('(|uiic,i. 



Above Style Weighs from One Ounce to Ten Pounds 




This FAMILY SCALE wiii weigh up to 240 Pounds 



BURROW, STEWART & MILNE CO., LTD. 



25 



T-pioca-Boil one q^art of nnlkand "f ^--^tt^ritalf aTas^'of 
that has heen soaked in cold milk or wator for '^^ ;'^"'^f'?V;^\. ^hen add the 
salt. Cook slowly in a double kettle for h;-<;-a"a'ter oj «^" ^oui he^^^ ^^^^^^ 

-!!^:t^£;ntSr?n^^SaX^^^ 

-^ :ti?tL t:n^:?i!^^: or ^:^^ ^'C. Si b^ten .ifr.^ 

Tpple-If you have select, Juicy tart apfs, P- ancl shoe -"^^^0 -^^^ 
fiU as large a pudding d sh as needed f°y^ ' ^^^/'^.'^/^y^j ^a^e j^the oven until 
sugar; add half a teacupful or ess <> ^^'^^^''^.^^'^fh.lf inch thick, gash the 
pa'rtly done. Make a nice soda b.scu.t ^"^ ' ^f •\,^"f ^^^| ^ ^..^ ,o the'o'ven and 
centre for escape of stenn,, and phue ' ' «r ^.e • PPl;^; J^ ^^ ^. .^,^ ^ j^^^d sauce 

iSet'libbi^tu^l-^^d ;^,M^S^r:tnd^nioHng Vith nnt.neg, vanUla, 
bitter almond, cr lemon, as preferred. ■ , t ,..n,,T, 

*pp>e.T.pi.c.-;So.k . ..an,p...l X,:"':;ri! J.^'L^aple" .7- iSe." S^ 
water. In the morning pare and slice about six ' f-^, 'f"';^ .■{' r/ ^^^^ ^ix ^vith 
pudding dish, strew sugar over them ; cover and -^e^-/ .^f^^^^^ of 
the softened tapioca, adding a pmch of salt and tinee or ' ^o a 

suear according to the tartness of the apple.,. l5nKe in a "'""^'■^ 
delicate brown.*' Eat eld with sugar and cream or sugar and m Ik. 

Tndli.h Plum^Heat very li^it the whites of four eggs and the yolks of six 
add to"em?p";nt',?lveef ml^^c and ^I^J^^^^^JT';^^^^^ 
.uarter of a pound of stale bread g'-''itf^/'"*''*/'^twth seeds removed and well 
.^nd a pound each of beef suet f-PP^^ Jif , r isin^ ^^.th eec^^^^ 
floured, currants washed .-uid dried; add t^\" S ^'^^ "i n i, , ^ ^^ 

7Hn„ched .-.vert aln.onds ,,o,ra,l,.d line, or .-, fonnd of ".«» ^^^ 'h'"- 

s,;::r^i-.i";:^';f :^^f.:o-^^3 i;^S--i;,r^i;'^^; 

nan bake in a hot oven and serve with cream and sugai. 

''""Vlg H.H . po,.„d o, «,; ..;».;•«;;»',«„'":?.:' ^"ror-T.^inri! 

ounces o! po,vJered sugar ll.i« ';'"'»" ,,'.'';„ | J, afsre" »'1<1 *« other 

e.i;*"'s;ts s ™I,E :,!',? ;:.»rc';:;,;v»"' „ro.,idt cse,, -v.,, a„d 

^°" ;::rLr:n. .„d » „.,„,er ..i"'-^;^t^^u?^c:Kl!.TfweeJ"fo 

is:?s'Sr:: ;;:;r ,r ;; s:tu;;r; t^^^^^ '^.u^^ .u«e g».ed 

nutmeg. When this mixture has come to " J •';'\\™ed pudding dish 

r'KK/'r&^£.rre\C;Xrr„dTjJ«:; SVra?ed'''p,"J^ 

dough, roll to halt an men micK, biRe ''^ ^ , j j steamer and 

b"ct"irSs''r:i;:k"oTtsi s'„ r'rrsrd », .pp.,. 



2fl 



JEWEL STOVES AND RANGES. 



Batter — One quart of milk, four egc;s, six ounces of flour, a little soda and 
salt ; mix the flour vciv larefully with ii little milk so it will not be lumpy; bake 
twenty minutes. Serve immediately 

Creams and Custards 

Blanc Mange One ([uart of milk, foui' tnblospoonfuls of corn starch, four 
eggs, one-half cup of sugar, one tablesjwonful of vnnilla.. 

Cream Pnffs One teacup of boiling water, butter the size of n small egg; 
melt the butter in water, stir in three-fourtlis of a cu)) of .sii'ted flour ; cook one 
minute, stirring con.^iantly ; cool, then stir in two well-beaten eggs, first the 
yolks, then the whites; lake in a r.low o\en three-ciuarters of an hour. .Tusi be- 
fore putting on the table make a small incision in the side of each puff and fill it 
with the following cream : One cup of sweet milk, one egg, one heaping teaspoon 
of corn starch, sugar to taste. Cook in a disli of wat<'r and flavor with vanilla 
when cool 

Cup Cu,stards— Break one large, well-beaten egg in each cup. and fill nearly 
full of sweet milk; sweeten to taste and flavoi. I'lace the cujis in a pan of boil- 
ing water on top of ti.e stove and cover ; cook until thick. When cold turn out 
into saucers and serve for dessert with cream. 

Steamed Custards — Roil in a douV)le kettle one quart of milk, four eggs, and 
three-fourths of a cup of white sugar. When this boils r<':nove it from the stove, 
after cooling add one teaspoonful of vanilla, and pour into small rustard or egg 
cups. 'J'he above amount will make twelve cups. Place them in a steamer over 
boiling wnter. and steam until they thicken like the custard in custard pies. Try 
with the handle of a teaspoon to see if they aie done. Orate a little nutmeg over 
each one and serve them cold with cake for dessert or tea. 

Apple Snow — Add to the |)ul]) of eight l)aked ap)iles a half pound of powder- 
ed sutrar. the juice of one lemon and the whites of three eggs; beat all well t'O- 
gether for on<' hour. Make a custard of the yolks of the eggs, sugar and milk, 
place in a dish, and drop the froth on this in large flakes. 

Floating Island -Make a custard of the yolks of six eggs, one quart of milk, 
a small ])incli of salt, and sugar to taste; beai and strain the yolks before adding 
to the milk ; jjlace the custaid in ii large tin )ian and set on the stove, stirring 
constantly until it boils, then remove, flavor with lemon or rose and j)our into a 
dish (a shallow, wide one is the best), spread smoothly over the boiling hot oist- 
ard the well-ljt^aten whites of the eggs, grating some loaf sugar and cocoanut on 
the top. Set your dish in a pan of ice water and serve cold. 

Baked Custard — Eight well-beaten eggs (leaving out two whites for the top) 
and three pints of milk; sweeten and flavor to taste; b;ike two hours. Heat the 
two whit<>s stiff for the top with a little jiowdered sugar. 

Russian Cream — One-quarter of a box of gelatine dissolved in one pint of 
boiling milk (soak first), add yolks of two eggs well beaten and one-half cup of 
sugar, stirring ccmstantly : let it come to a boil and remove from fire ; when cooled 
add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; pour into'a mould, set it on 
ice till hard. 

Rice Custard One cup of looked rice, one (juart of sweet milk, three eggs, 
one cup of stigar. one fiiiulh teaspo(jnful of salt, one tablespiMiiiful of butter, one 
cup of raisins. 

Apple Cream Stew soft and strain a d(jzen medium-sized tart apples; while 
hot add six well-beaten eggs and sugai' to taste. Heat tintil stiff and serve with 
whipped cream sweetened and flavored. 



V*. 



BURROW, STEWART^ILNE^. 

Jellies and Jams 

^ 1-1. ;* c-y^mI/ 



LTD. 



Lemon aeUy-I^U. a r^l- of ^lajine^d^l.t it -•^JI-.Klu'l^moJS 
over night. Then add to it a quart ot ^'\^ . -^^ ,„oulds to cool. 

^int tnd a half of sugar, bt.r .ell -^-^''^ until thev are perfectly smooth 

Ouince Jelly-Rub the quinces ^v.th » . ><' ^ unm ^^^.^ ^^^^j ^y, 

..ut in mall pieces, pack tight in y-"'',^^^^\^;.rnered flannel bag. pour fruit in 

. fruit, boil until very soft; "'l',^'' ,',,;]l 'Von the top and sides to make the 

and h ng up to drain, occassionally l^^^^'^f J^^'^^j enough to expel the pulp- 

tuice run more freely, taking ^-[^ ."'^^^^/S S fifteen"nunutes or until it is 

preserves. rarefullv by cleaning and thoroughly 

Currant Jam- Prepare the f'"' .^"^J'^-'^^.T^it {vom becoming hard ; bod 

^;:i:;: ='s,s ;£.;:---—■■ - -'• °^— 

let them stand an hour, mash, and b o.l iN^en ^^^ ^^ ^^ . 

Crah Apple Jelly-Boil the ap,Jes ^^^^ ^^ ,,^, ^1 it sviU di^. 

top with writing paper. 

Saaces, Preseri/es, Etc^ ^^^^,^^^^_ 

Ouince Sauce- rare half a peck of nice qmn N ^"J^^^'J,', winces close 
..„...^tCn and weigh out an 7-' ^'-'^ J , ^'^'u^ettle StrewUe of the 
.H.ther. with the cores "P^l'/''^^^ ",%;;.', of quinces and sugar, and so on 
g r thickly over them; add anothe U e o q ^^ „i ,,,,iev pour . I 

nil all are in : then to each 1'"''"'^ " ,'"»^'tiV thev are done. For the above 
vi he quinces, and cook them ^1";^ y "{^ \2i t,,em soft in a pint or t^^■o 
n^unt, take half a ,.eck of .pHcy, ^-*^^j .^.'^l^^/^^^'S... Skim the quinces out o 
i . Iter then pour lliem into a jelly bag. .md ma. ,nixture twenty or 

eh vrur-d add the strained "PpU' juu. t it B nl ,, M 

hLty nunutes. or f r'^^XToUks h h they are intended to be sealed, 

be kl'Vi hot meanwhile in the bottles u. J ^^^^ ^^.^^ ._^^^ 

Quince Marmalade-rare and '"^'r' "^^^done 1=''" ^'"'' l'""' '^^ 'u?!? 
in em" gh water to cover them; cook "" 1 J«'^'- ,, ,.^,,y soft, then rub them 

cold co'ver it like jelly. , ,,,„h«>rries leaving none but perfect ones. 

Cranberry Sauce-Pick over the ■'■^"*;^'^'^Sned kettle, in water enough 
.^ w.?sTthem; cook in an «^nanielled or poictUin imea _^.^ through 

^otmt preU well up but -t 0-. the hern . ^ool.^^o^y ^^^^ , 
a sieve. Heat the pulp, and while h. '^^"Z'""; ^^^^g. Pour into moulds 01 
::L ten to «;-!! ,..nut^ ..r uMd it _^.^s^ ^^^^^^^ ,„, ,,„ be covered 

\^::^i^iW^^-y ^-rZ:^:^^- ''-'^^^ . ^nver fork and 
.,J'nSy^=rrt.^:r.STloK^ranu.^ sugar to one pound 

of fruit. 



28 



JEWEL STOVES AND RANGES. 



THK HOUSEKEliPI-R'S HHLPFUL STANDARD 

Four saltspoonfnls of liquid <'(iu;il ono k'lisponful. 

Four teaspooiilul^ of litjiiiil fqual one tablu.spoonful 

Three teasixioiifuls of dry inaleriiil t-ijual one tablespoonful. 

Tour tablespcxjnfiils of li(iuid ('(jual one winegJassful, one gill or one- 
(liiarter cup 

Sixteen tal)U spooniiils of liquid, ono cup. 

Eight hoiiiiiiig tal)h';,pooiifuls of dry material, one cup. 

Two gills, one cup or lialf-pint. 

Fotu' cups of li(iuid, one (luart. 

Four cups of flour, one (juarl or one pound. 

Two cups of solid butter, <jne p(;und. 

One-half cup of butter, one-(juarter of a p.iund. 

Two cup.s of granulated .sugar, one pound. 

One pint of milk or wat<'r, one pound. 

Nine largo eggs or ten medium, one pound. 

One pint of choj)ped moat, solidly packed, one pound. 

One round tablespoonful of butter, one ounce. 

One hea]iing tablesimonful of butter, two ounces or a quarter of a cup. 

" Butt4>r the size of an egg," two lunces, or a quarter of a lup. 

One heaping tablespoonful of sugar, one ounce. 

Two round tablespoonfuls of flour, coffee, or powdered sugar, one ounce. 

One teasi)oonful of liquid, tme hal.'' ')unce. 

With this we give also Mrs. L — — 's taV", of projvortions : 

One .sca.it measure of liquid to three full measures of flour — for bread. 

One scant measure of liijuid to one full measure of flour — for muffins. 

One scant measuie of liijuid to one full measure of flour^for batters. 

One-half cup of yeast or one-quarter of a cake of compressed yeast to one 
pint of liquid. 

One even teaspoonful of soda or two full tea.spoonfuls of cream tartar to 
one quart of flour. 

Three heaping or five even teasimonfuls of baking powder to one quart of 
flour. 

One teaspoonful of soda to one jiint of sour milk. 

One teaspoonful of soda to one cu]) of molasses. 

One saltspoon of salt to one quait of milk for custards or one loaf of sponge 
cake. 

One teaspoonful of extract to on<' (juait of custard or a loaf of plain cake. 

One teaspoonful of salt to one (]nart of soup stoc' 

One teasiioonful of salt to two (juarts of flour. 

One siiltspoonful of white ))epper to one quart of s _ itock. 

One teaspoonful of nii.xed herbs to one (juart of soup stock. 

One teaspoonful each of chopped vegetables to be u.sed with (me cpiart of 
stock. 

A "speck" of cayenne pepper is what can l>e taken upon the point of a pen- 
knife. 

A pinch of salt or spice is about a saltspoonful. 

A pinch of hops is about a (uiaiter of a cup. 

The above seasoning is for moderate tastes. — Detroit Free Press. 

HOUSLHOLD " IPS " 

If I were about to begin housekeeping and intended to be maid as well as 
mistress, I should certainly commence my furnishings at the kitchen, and have 
every utensil there modern and fiist-class, even though it necessitated economiz- 
ing in the other parts of the hovr-e. 

If I knew what make of kitchen range was reliable and weU made I should 
not hesitate for a few additional dollars in first cost; it is a 'spending that saves.' 



\ 



BURROW. STEWART & MU.NE CO, WD. 



20 



"""'n ^tuld afford it I -.uld not pu-vhase tinware at a ^c^ ^^^ ^^^.^ ^ 
Store - Such tmvvare us they hand. - ^ . ' 1' ." ,i;hes positively dangerous to 

foi, you (aiiuo domestic scales; 

to use dish towels about the stove. ;„ .^^ be «>«f ^ed by 

^''^ ?| you canwt ^-yJuj^^s-P 1| the^ W, ^o^^^^.^^.,^^^^ ^^^ ^^ ,,„ ,,eulate 

DAINTY Table linen 

. , , „ ..ttnctive well-set table is 

an. of the most important f.^^«nt^«l^ ^°,„^", ^hite Colored bordered 

A •„?„ linen immaculate in cleanlmess and «"" ^ ^^^f^^' jf decorat^.d vvare is 



80 



.lEWEL STOVES AND RANC.ES. 



Very roarse linen is not dosiiable for lonks, noi is it a neressity so far ns 
(lurnl)ility is conctMnrd. Viiw liloncticd dimiask, atnl also tli< nicilium gradi's, 
have wond('i[\il wraiiiii.' iiualitics much Mipciior t.> lliat of the pooror kind. These 
are gotten up in i'xi|iiisite dcsiijiis and always u'ive an air of floKanc-e to the 
l)oard, even though thf dishes he phiin whilf. Sonic of theso effective patterns 
are squares or rubfs for the centre of the dotfi, with floral liord<"rs. If flowers 
are preferred for the body of the clotli, great siirawliiiu lilossonis should not 1k> 
selected, hut rather tiny sp'uys, liuds, or very small Idooiiis, leaving water-lilies, 
fern leaves, and other larger growths to lie carried <'ut in the wide Ixirders. 

Care must he taken in the hmndering of fine tahlo cloths. After thorough 
washing, thev should le well dampened and ironed with moderately hot irons 
until dry. This lirings out the design and makes the finish shine smooth as 
satin. A very thin starch improves any doth when the first newness is worn off. 
A .starched il'oth keeps clean longer tii'an one tliat is not, and looks Ix'tter. 

With fresh linen as a fouTidation, no housewife need he apprehensive ahoul 
the appeaiance of her talde, if her dishes, however jdain. are deliciously clean 
and not cracked, chipped or hroken. Where there are little children in the 
family, it is economy to provide them with generous trays and e.xtra cloths to 
piote'ct the cloth ()roper from stains. 

Gold and white linen luncheim dotlis are handy articles to have among the 
table supf)lies to use in the fruit Feas.m, or if a lunch is served at noon instead of 
dinner. These make • admirable breakfast cloths if coffee is u.sed. There is 
nothing common-looking about them, as tlie combination of gold and white is a 
highly artistic one, soft and <xtreniely jileasing to the eye, and whilo not so 
closely woven in the mesln's as line white ones, the looser lextuie does not look 
.'oarse and stains come out easier. — (lolden Rod. 

JUST THl- DIFIF.RnXCE 

It is surprising how differentlv two cooks will u.se the .sa i,e recipe, even in 
the simple act of baking a tin of a'p|iles. One will put them in a shallow tin and 
set them in a very hot oven, causing the skin to burst and '.he inside to run out, 
resulting in anvthing but a tempting dish. Another will iak.; the same apples, 
and after having removed the stem and blossom with a pointed l-nife, put them 
in a deep tin with a little water, half a cup of sugar, let them bake .slowly, turn 
them carefully when half done, and when thoroughly KKiked take them up on a 
plate, turning each apjile bottom side up; lesult, a dish both paltable an 1 
sightly. So with evervthim; pertaining to home w<iik. It does not require such 
a variety on the table'if each article is prepared in the nicest manner possible. 
Farm and Home. 

WHAT CAN YOU USK A f J.MON FOR? 

Ever so many things. If you sijuce/e it into a glass of water and drink it 
every morning, it will keep voiir stouia.li in order and ward off dyspepsia. Ruli 
a cut-up lemon on voni fingers if they are stained fnmi jiaring fruit or potatoes, 
and the blackness will disappear as if by magic. If you should have a black 
ring on your neck from wearing a tight collar or a feather boa, or anything else 
the dye 'will come off, try if lemon juice will not remove it. If you have dark 
hair and it seems to be falling out, rub the scalp with a slice of l-'mon and that 
will soon stop the trouble. Squeeze a little lemon juice into a tumbler of milk, 
then rub it on vour face night and morning and see what it will do for your com^ 
plexion. If an' insect or bee sling you, ai)i)ly a slice of lemon to the wound and 
it will soon take the pain out. Mix an equal quantity of glycerine and lemon 
juice and rub vour hands with it Iwfore going to bed. Put gh)ves on to sleep in 
In the morning wash your hands with warm water, and rub with lemon juice. A 
week of this treatment will whiten them. There is nothing equal to a tumbler 
of real hot lemonade for the grip, l-'oi a bad headache, a few slices of lemon 
nibbed on the forehead will soon lessen the iKiiiL-^Farm and Home. 



^k 



HrRUOW. STEWART & Ml.^NE_a> - l/VU 



HI 



IN CVNNlNfi TIMU , property 

lies not in th. suR.r us.c » ^J ; ' ;,.,;,..nt an.l 'M>1'\«« ";;;'^ Cd do moH. 
„nt any sugar ^^' "^^^'^'' ' . ts hron^hout tl.o, ^v.nU>.■. /^ " ,^- ;,^^„ia ),« seleotod. 

^^r-iX'.r::."":; iv^v--:" ;^e £:ld"w ^^u!./; . - .. u,e t„ps .. 

^when sav..d hj.n. y;-/;:^>^;^ S not always lU -..U.e. ^ ^^^,^„,,,, ., 
vul.lK-r rings. '-' /'''f ,!;„>■ ."uUing in th- J';''«„ ,;\,^u , fruit, while the 
The pron'ss 1 .Te fi!^«" ' ' •„ ,,,o<h.<'e in"'^ """ ' ,^,, bv a housewifely 
„,o o^d method ol '•»"""'^/,."', 'IpLut iav has been reduced, by 
a.nount of sugar ro.^u .ed i 1^ ^^,j^,^^. . 

w-iter. to the <""ven.ent t.b « ^ ^^^^ 



,.■„, stvawber.ies-ten ounces. 
For rasrWrries-s.x ounces. 
For huckleberries-six ounces. 
For cherries-«ight ounces 
For quinces-twelve ---,,„„ 



f" !;;;;!nM.ut-eight ounces. 
For ,lums-ten ounces. 
F,,;. luvrants-ten ounces. 

..<..> ,.,.pl"^ '*'" """'*"'„., v,„t. „U other berries 

S 11 strawberries -. .>^,^ao b^te.^^;;, S^'^^ V^^^^^^^;^? ^S!^ 

should be large and fi.'m f.^»^,^, ."*^^.in<.a,M'h's a.e l""'^;^'7i„t? small, square 
kerr.el adds much to the ";^ ' ' ; ,^ „ ,,iver fork or else c"t '^^ jar ihey are 
picked out, and then ^'';;«\'^ \, .'V,\ , p„Bs through ^^^« "^-^^ .°\f of goodly si^.*;. 
Sice. When pears ■'-^^ ^ some of\he stems Mt on but ^ ^^,^1^ paved. 
handso,ner 7'|;"';;',i :, "' , J d,. not remove the ^ee^s. Pe c ^^^^^ ^^, „p 

pare and cut m half's. " ^^^^^.^ veiv ^^'" ' .^pi.^d and cored. 

Lived nnd P.tted: b t t lu w.it ^^^^^^ ^^^^^^ , {'"'fiUinTnth water, covermg 
whole, with the stones elt '" ' , ■ tested by filling ^»' j ^^ pare- 

When all is in 'J^"»'"':;,'^^'\;a ,^o moisture oozes o" ■ d^^X Next find 
aud turning upside down to ^^^^^'^^ ^^ ^„ ^u ^Ue •nterstices cl<«e^y ^.^^^ 

Song the jars, a ^^-^^^ ^^^'Z^r up to the brim ^^^ ^^^ boiler, 
^ach one to the t;;P-;'/>^f ^^-^^^^ ^^'^^ {^^ y^ave ready a '^1-[(;^"^„K t^^s set the ja^s ; 
on the covers ''f ^^^^ J;r,a,een laid a thick, soft clot , ancl m ^^^ ^^^^^ ^^ 
in the bottom ot ^^ "|'\ ■^'. f^,\,p to within an inch «l t'"* ;^^,. ,, very hot fii^. 
fill with warn (not ;;^\ , .fto Lib Do not set '^'^^ J^^.f; gTEAAlthe fruit 
place the whole on the stovt i ^^^^^^.^ to ^^'o^'J/ „ove the top ol 

Lwever, or the i^vs inay ^ack a ^^.^ ^^^, "?;""\f 'j ^^"c3ed sufficiently. 

After the water bubbles aUo%v ^^^ ^^^.j^ ^{ ,oft, it is t ^^^ 

one can and pierce t^e f " t^w ^^ j,,^ ^^^'^'/'tWefoTe the Ixact time 

Ten minutes is g«"<^"i''^„^' to their solidity, and thereto ei .^ ^^^^ 

,,inces take longer, ''^^^'^l^^^l^^^J^ manner. When ^^'T^^f^^^lt the jars; 
;i;;.,t be left to ^l^^'^^'^.^v^n^ the band >n a to.e , l»;^\,^^^^,„g, after 
set the kettle to «"« ^ -^f^ '",, th boiling w.,ter ""^'^^'^^^'^elv, and invert to be 

the old-fashioned method , ^^ .^^ ^ ^,^^1 jry 

.nim.tely. ,^^,^^., be fastened with a ^^'^'^ j' j^ fs to be used, as 

Screw tops^should^^^wa^> _,^^^^^^^^f,,,,it a few^homs^Yo!:^ by being confined so 



d al-.vays open 



dark place, au 

the oxygen m the air 

long. If a jar does 



restores any 



flavor it may 



not open easily never ruin 



. bave loF.t by 
it by trying to pry 



jff thfc top 



:{2 



JEWEL SIOVKS AND FIANCES. 



with a kriifi'. Iii.slfad. iiiimorse it, top (IhwiiumkI, in wiitor iis hot as you ciin 
lipiir yotir linpTs in, iilii-r \\hiili tin- lovir will •,'«iiii;illy I urn rtwulily. Aniericun 
Agriculturist. 

HOW TO POP CORN 

Tlu' lice corn is )>\ iniiny considiTcd tiu- U'st viiiicly for [loppin;;, .uk! 
whilo it is rcrtiiinly iin ixit'lhiit kind, we have rt'ccntly nunc arross a dark blue 
almost liliick va.ri<"ly, wliich \v»- think surpasses it. This kind has larger cars 
than the i ice, with "snioiilh kermis of f,'t>'>il f^izt\ -nd fmps out much larKer. To 
secme the- liest results disiard the <ild f.ishioned (orn jiopper and use a (l«'ep iron 
kt'ttle. The fire must he a very hot one, of fine dry wikjiI. tunned lo a mass of 
eoals and emhers. Have ready 'the sh<'lled eom, whieh has heen fieid from (haff 
l>y j)ourini,' from oiu- pan to anothpr, so that the eluiff is hlown away hy the air. 
I'lace the kettle over the fire and ptit in half a cup of lard ami ahout half a tea- 
spoonful of salt. When the lard is melted put in two-eupfuls of rom and stir 
hriskly tmtil it Ix-^'ins to pop; then cover the kettle, shaking it hy the hail to 
[)rev<'nt hurnir - tho c(u-n. When the iioppint; has somewhat suhsided, remove 
the covei' ar ' ^r with a loni; handled sjioon until all is popped. Turn (luiekly 
into a pan, ; leie is d.-in^er of scorciiing if left in the kettle. This i|uantity 
should make ai h'ast a heaiiinj; milk pan full alter it is pop|)ed. 

To make popcorn ludls. lioil two ciips of the best molasses until it lum'ens 
in water; add a pinch of soda, stir well and jiour over the [Mipcorn, mi.\in|4 it 
evenly with a large spoon. When cool enough to handle, press into halis. The 
halls "m.ay he made by using sugar instead of molasses, lioilin:; it with a little 
water imtil it hardens" in water. Flavor and use the same .as the molasses. Ella 
Rockwond in American .Agriculturist. 

HOLSHHOM) I.CONOMIIiS. 

WTien pillow.slips bei^in to show signs of wear, riji open the end seam, and 
fold so tluit I he siile seam will come in the centre of the pillow. Sew up the end 
again, and your pillowslip will wear as long again, as the wear is now upon that 
part that has had l)ut little wear lieretofore. 

Watch tlM> tahlecloths, and at the first thin jilace making its appearance, 
darn it cnrefullv with the lavellings. sa.ved for that purpose when the tablecloth 
was made. In 'this way it will look mucli Ixtter than if negh-cted until a hole is 
worn through, when it must be patched. 

Make c-uving-cloths fr(mi red and-whi(f <heckrd linen towelling, fringe all 
aro ;nd and i)lace over the ta))lei loth at the ciirver's place: also one opposite 
wliere the mistress sits. Thev help to save the wear of the cloth at the edge of 
the t;vble. Threo-quariers of a yard is none too long. This towelling also makes 
good everv-dav nayikins, cut in squares and Ik mmed. 

:\1ake" sch'ool napkins, lor the children to take with their dinner, f.rom 
bleached cotton cut in .sipiares and friiu'cd, then feather-stitch with red (ravel- 
lings from led tabling will do), and work and initial or the name in the ivntre. 
They are ornameiitar as well as useful. Auu-rican Agric\dturist. 

FLAVORINO CANM-.n PEARS. 

Tears that, after canning, jirove to be tasteless, can be made delicious by 
heating and adding piue;ip)ile in the proportion of one can of pineai)iile to three 
of pe;u's. Cut the slic<'S of af^de quite small, and if the pear.s are in halves, 
divide them ai;ain. Heat ;ill together, taking care not to let them cook so that 
they lose their shape. When juitting up pears it is very little trouble to add 
pineapple t<i a few cans, ai:d the result is e.xccllent, since the pear lieconu's per- 
fectly flavored with pineapple and yet is far more easily digested.— Homcmaker. 

TO RFMOY!; STA'.NS FROM TARI.F.CLOTHS. 

Dip the stained parts in water to which has been added a tablespoonful of 
chloride of lime to eacli quart of water. If the stains are deep, let it soak fifteen 
or twenty minutes, then hang up, without wringing, to dry in the sun. 



H 



F€ 



V 

kt 

O 

V 

ti 
f 
< 



V'*as ' 



Hamilton Jewel 
Gas Ranges 

FOR NVTURVI. OR MANU- 
r VCTURCD (JAS. 

We make GAS RANBES - ^very 

Uind-. noi'hie O^'^"' ,,^'cf]e 
Oven. Elevated Oven and Side 

verv complete line ol these 

"^;':"aUo maue «as Range 
Kiirners. Air Mixers, etc. 
"'we "re the largest makers of 
Gas r.oods in Canada. 




Superior Jewel 
Furnace^ 

FOR HARD OR ^COAl. 

OR wooi7 

""»„.■ furnaces at. con.Kl^K'l 
liUly guaranteed. 



The Burrow, Stewart & Miineji' 

HAMILTON. ONTARIO 




The Royal Jewel Steel Range 

For Hard or Sott Coal or Wood 




MAM'i At riHKK i;v 



THE BURROW, STEWART & MILNE CO., LTD, 

HAMILTON -__ ONTARIO 

JEWEL STOVES AND RANGES are for sale by 

KILPATRICK BROS., 

HARDWARE AND STOVES, 

SoU Agents in LONDON for "Je-wel" Stoves 8 Ranges 
Phone 2525. 602 DUNDAS ST. 



^^, 



