TX 715 
.P888 
Copy 1 



■g 




lOOO 




^^^^ 




SHELDON, IOWA 



Mm 



li%mihg 



i 



m§ii 



mi' 



^1 



Pbelaii'$ 



THE SIOUX CITY, IOWA 

ONE 

PRICE 

Sioux City's Greatest Bargain House store 



LADIES send us your order for SHOES. We'll 
fit the foot and save you monej besides. 
Tr^' a pair of our famous Shoes. A pair... 



1 





Importer and Dealer in 



Sioux City, Iowa 

312=314 Nebraska St. 

South of Fourth, on the Main Street 

Leading to the C. & N . W. and 

Omaha Railway Depot 



m 






Queensware, China and Glassware 

TT . n 1 JD ^T r\ Full Line Bar Goods 

Hanging, Parlor and Banquet Lamps. Onyx ^^^^^ p^^ ^^.^^^ ^^^ 0,^^^ 

Top Tables, Gas Fixtures, Best Full Line DoubleThick Hotel China 

Mantels, Etc. .Mail Orders Given Prompt Attention 



Have You Seen Our Stock of. 



^ 



^1 






UUJ«>i 



HOSERY 



t^ e^^ t^ fc5* t^ 

Gent's Fast Black Half Hose "X (\n Poi* Slimmer Weai*^ 

Children's Ribbed Hose = -L^C rOF :3UniIllCr YV Cdl . 

Ladies', Gents", Children's and Misses' Hosiery at Lowest Prices 

,,Xbe Racket,, Vf,m% lowa 




To Secure Good Results in Baking go to the 



L. LAMB LUMBER CO. ^''iS'w^r 



For Your. 



COAL 



e • • • 



They handle the Best Hard and Soft Coal hi the market. Try their 

Hocking Valley Soft Coal. It will please you. Also use 

their kindling. You will find it bone dry. 









^ 



f4 






OERMAFOAfl 



A. 



Tor fbe Skin and Scalp 

PRICE BY MAIL 25c 
Mrs. E. J. Daw, Agent at Sheldon, Iowa 



Finest 

Preparation 

In 

The 

World 

For 

Cleansing 

Purifying 

And 
Healing 
The 
Scalp 
And 
Skin 



DERMAFOAM! Have you tried it? 
It is the Finest Preparation In The 
World for Cleansing-, Purifying- and 
Healing- the Skin and Scalp. It Cures 
Dandruff, Removes Tan, Freckles, 
Blackheads, bad oders from the arm- 
pits, and is an Excellent Shaving- 
Cream; Delightful for the Bath; In- 
dispensable for the Infant's Toilet, 
and sells like Hot Cakes. No Acids, 
Salts or Ammonia. Price by mail 
25 cents. Ag-ents wanted every- 
where. Address 



e^ 



"a 



% MORRIS 
^ ILLINOIS 



Cbc Dermafoam €o. 



{^ 









...Be$t Receipts 



♦♦♦ 



Containing Thoroughly Tested and Reliable Receipts for 
Cooking, Home Remedies, and General Information 



•^•J^; 



CONTRIBUTED ESPECIALLY FOR THIS WORK 

EDITED AND PUBLISHED BY 

MRS. KATE POWERS 

SHELDON, - IOWA 



INDUSTRY 

To meditate, to plan, resolve, perform, 
Which in itself is good— as surely brings 
Reward of good, no matter what be done. 

—Pollock. 



44826 



l-lbrMry of Congre«« 
""W^ COflES ReCEIVEO 

SEP 8 1900 

Cofynght tntry 

SECOND COPY. 

Dt><ver«x) to 

OhDtK DIVISION, 
SEP 11 1900 



69687 






<; 



COPYRIGHTED igoo 
BY MRS. KATE POWERS 



TO THE BRIDES 
W-io are wiliinojf by perseverance and industry 
to beco-ne mistresses of the art of -housekeeping 

this book is dedicated 



PREFACE 



"Hous^l^eeping^ is an art, and, like other arts, must be mastered 
t)y a careful observance in regard to details. Work must be 
systematized, and a definite plan followed, if one ever becomes the 
mistress of housework. 

A Judg-e's wife once remarked, "It takes as much brains to 
manag^e a house well, as to decide cases of law." We fully ag^ree 
with her, and would like to add — that in many cases we believe it 
takes more. 

In compiling- this volume it has been the author's aim to g'ive 
information of real value to all, and especially to the inexperienced; 
this has been done without sparing- time or labor. Kind friends 
who are practically familiar with the subjects treated, have en- 
deavored to state the processes as clearly and concisely as it is 
possible. 

The within receipts are all reliable having- been tried and 
proved. If you, my dear young- friend, should fail a't first in trying- 
them, it may be inanimate objects were contrary. Remember no 
excellence can be g-ained without g-reat labor in any other art, 
neither can you expect to become an adept in the culinary art 
without repeated trials; long-, and often roug-h, is the road to 
success. 

Our sincere desire is that we may straig-hten, somewhat, the in- 
tricate mazes th roug-h which you must pass in order to become the 
queen of the household duties, instead of the slave. 

We hope that any mistakes found in this work will be covered 
with the mantle of charity, while we leave its merits to yourg-ener- 
ous judg-ment. 

In the preparation of this work, many thanks are due the ladies 
of Cheldon, and other kind friends from more distant homes, who 
so gladly and willing-ly contributed of their best receipts. Grate- 
ful acknowledg-ement is especially due Mrs. Nellie Nelson for her 
interest in the work. 

Sheldon, July 12th, 1900. Mrs. Kate Powers 



Bread Making 



There are four points that must be observed in making" g-ood 
Thread. Above all things use gfood flour. Good flour when pressed 
in the hand adheres in small lumps and is of a creamy white ting"e 
being- easily disting-uished from poor flour because of its unadhesive- 
ness and ding-y color. Next important point is the yeast, home 
brewed is always best. Any of the compressed or dry yeasts are 
g-ood providing" they are fresh. Another essential is the kneading-. 
One rule is to knead half an hour; but this is not always necessary, 
for the doug-h is kneaded sufiiciently when it takes on a smooth ap- 
pearance. The last point, but by no means the least in importance, 
is the baking-. Care must be exercised in determining- the proper tem- 
perature for the oven. One of many tests is to place in it a piece 
of writing- paper, should it brown lig-htly in five or six minutes the 
oven is then ready. And if kept at this temperature for fifteen 
minutes it may be allowed to moderate somewhat. Usually three 
quarters of an hour to an hour is required in baking-. Of course 
older house-keepers know these facts from long* experience. 

Mrs. W. L. Ayers. 

HOME BREWED YEAST 

Take four or five medium sized potatoes, peel, wash and grate 
into three pints of very cold water. One handful of loose hops put 
in a granite basin, pour one pint of boiling- water on these, set on the 
back of the stove, steep, not boil, covered closely about five minutes. 
Now put the grated potato and water in a g-ranite kettle, strain hop 
water over it. Add one-half cup sug-ar, one-half cup salt, put on fire 
stirring until cooked. When cooled or aboutmilk warm, add one cup 
old yeast or one cake dry yeast and one cup flour. Let stand in a 
warm place twenty-four hours, covered with a perforated cover; 
then put in an earthen jar; tie a paper over the top and set away for 



BEST KKCEIPTS 



(on the stove if the fire is nearly out,) where it will be kept warm, 
not hot, for an hour or two. If the dish is not too larg-e it will 
probably be full in the morning-, if not, add a spoon of flour, stir 
well, warm the water in the kettle, replace dish, cover and keep it 
warm until lig^ht. Have read}' two quarts of sifted flour in a pan, 
make a hole in the center, put in an even teaspoon of salt, a tea cup 
of nearly boiling- water, to one pint of new milk, and stir a batter 
there in the center of the flour, add the "emptying-s" from the dish 
and stir well, (there will be a g-ood deal of flour around the batter, 
this is rig-ht,) cover w'ith another pan, keep warm until light,- — it 
will rise in an hour or even less — when it is ready to be kneaded 
and made directly into loaves, which place in baking- pans, keep 
well covered and warm until lig-ht, when it is ready to bake. The 
secret of success is to keep it warm but not at all hot. This bread 
is g-ood if no milk is used; indeed some prefer it made with water 
alone instead of milk and water. In cold weather, if kitchen is cold 
at nig-ht, do not set "emptying-s" over nig-ht, but make early in the 
morning-. 

Mrs. Kate Powers 

EXCELLENT BREAD 

Heaping- cup flour, teaspoonful salt, tablespoon lard; pour on 
boiling and stir until creamy, one pint milk scalded, one cake com- 
pressed yeast, mix into a loaf, let stand three hours then put into 
loaves, let stand one hour and bake. 

Mrs. H. T. Thompson 

POTATO YEAST 

When boiling- potatoes for dinner put one pint of flour in an 
earthen dish, to which has been added one teaspoon each of sug-ar 
and salt. When the potatoes are done, drain the water onto the 
flour. Mash one good sized potato, add. Soak a yeast cake in 
tepid water. When flour is about milk warm and yeast cake 
dissolved, add. Set in a warm place, in four or five hours it isready 
for use. 

Mrs. John Dyas 

TO MAKE THE BREAD 

The first thing in the morning-, sift three quarts of flour into 
bread pan, add teaspoon of salt, one quart of warm water, stir 



BEST recp:ipts 



thoroug-hly, thea add yeast which should by this time be very lig"ht, 
stir well and set in a warm place to rise, usually b}' covering- well 
and keeping- from drafts is sufficient in moderate weather. In very 
cold weather keep close to coal stove. When this becomes very 
lig-ht which will be in an hour or two, add flour and knead until 
smooth or g-lossy which will be in less than one-half hour. Set 
away to rise; when very lig-ht knead down; when again lig-ht, shape 
into loaves; let this become lig-ht, then bake. The secret of g-ood 
bread is to let it become lig-ht enoug-h before baking- and not to dry 
up in this latter process. This must be learned by practical ex- 
perience. 

Mrs. John Days 

GRAHAM BREAD 

Three cups sour milk, two teaspoons soda dissolved in hot 
water and added to the milk, one cup 'Orleans or sorgfhum molas- 
ses, one teaspoon salt, equal parts granam and white flour to make 
a stiff batter, as stiff as can be stirred; bake in a broad rather shal- 
low baking^ tin for three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Marion Dixon 

GRAHAM BREAD 

One and one-half pints sour milk, two teaspoons soda dissolved 
and added to milk, one cup brown sug-ar or one-half cup molasses, 
scant teaspoon sali, as much sifted graham flour as can be stirred 
in with a spoon, pour in well g-reased pan, steam two hours, bake 
fifteen minutes. 

Mrs. W. S. Lamb 

GRAHAM BREAD 

One pint of bread spong-e, scant half teacup of butter and 
lard mixed, two-thirds cup of sug-ar, add to spong-e and beat in well, 
stir in sifted g-raham flour as long- as you can stir it, take out onto 
a floured board, knead softly and shape into two loaves, put into a 
well buttered bread tin, smooth all on the top and sides with melt- 
ed butter, set aside in a warm place to rise, then take same as 
white bread, be careful not to burn as sweetened bread burns 
quicker than plain bread. 

Mrs. W. L. Ayers 



10 BEST RECEIPTS 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

One heaping- coffee cup each of rye, graham and corn meal 
sifted tog-ether, beat thoroug-hly with two cups of Orleans molasses, 
two cups sweet milk, one cup sour milk, one dessert spoon soda, 
dissolved in themilk, one teaspoon salt. Pour into a g-reased tin 
pan, set in a kettle of cold water and boil four hours, remove the 
lid of the tin pan, and place in an open oven to dry the top. Unex- 
celled for g-oodness. 

Mrs. W. H. Sleeper 

BROWN BREAD 

Three cups sour milk, level taV)lespoon soda dissolved in the 
milk, one cup mollasses. scant teaspoon salt, two cups corn meal, 
one cup g-raham sifted tog-ether. Pour inio three g-reased corn 
cans, steam four hours. 

Mrs. F. S. Plumb 

BROWN BREAD 

Take four cups of corn meal and one tablespoon of salt, pour 
on sufficient boiling- water to wet it, add one cup of molasses, two 
cups of sour milk, tw^o and one-half teaspoonsful of soda dissolved 
in a little hot water and last two cups of flour. Bake in.a loaf three 
hours, or steam in tin ci*ns two hours then bake one-half hour. 

Mrs. E. a. Ward 

CORN BREAD FOR THREE 

Butter the size" of an egg, two heaping- tablespoons sug-ar beat- 
en with butter, add one eg-g well beaten, sift tog-ether two-thirds 
cup yellow meal, one-half cup flour and two teaspoons baking 
powder, one-half teaspoon salt, and one-half cup sweet milk, should 
this be too thick, add more sweet milk, the batter must be about 
the consistency of pancake batter. Bake in a shallow tin or gem 
tins. Very good. 

Florence Oldham 



BEST RECEIPTS H 



CORN BREAD 

One and one-half teacups flour, one and one-half teacups corn 
meal, three teaspoons baking- powder, one tablespoon sugar, one 
teaspoon salt, two tablespoons melted butter, three eggs, beat 
whites and yolks separately, one coffee cup sweet milk, sift meal, 
flour and baking powder together, add salt, then the jolks well 
beaten, melted butter, now the milk, beat all together, lastly stir 
in lightly the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth. Bake in a well 
buttered broad shallow pan twenty-five minutes. 

Mrs. Sadie Hollenbeck 

OAT MEAL BREAD 

Two large cups of oatmeal covered with boiling water, when cool 
add one tablespoon of lard or butter, one-half cup Orleans or sor- 
ghum molasses, one cake of Yeast Foam, soften with enough water 
to cover, or a cup of home brewed yeast, two teaspoonsf ul salt, now 
add flour enough to knead it well, mold into a loaf and set aside in a 
warm plac^; let rise. Do all this at night just before retiring, and 
early in the morning knead and divide into three loaves, mold into 
shape and put into three square buttered tins. Smoothing all the 
loaves over with melted butter. When light again which will be 
soon, bake same as white bread. Unusually nice. 

Mrs. W. L. Ayers 



12 BEST RECEIPTS 



Breakfasts and Teas 



-s^^^^S^^ 



TO COOK OATMEAL 

Put four heaping- tablespoons of steel-cut oats into one quart of 
cold water, add one-half teaspoon salt, put over the fire in a double 
boiler, cover and cook continuously, after it commences to boil, one 
hour; ke.p the kettle closely covered and do not stir it — a.-> >:. /ring- 
it seems to destrov the flavor. Some cook oatmeal long-er. putting- 
it on to cook on the back of the base burner and letting- it cook 
slowly all nig-ht. The breakfast can then be more quickly pre- 
pared. Some cook it the day before when g-etting- dinner and heat 
it up ag-ain in the morning. 

CRACKED WHEAT 

Put one cupful of cracked wheat into one quart cold water, add 
half teaspoonful salt. Cook same as oatmeal — this may be served 
with cream. 

HOMINY 

Hominy is better cooked in milk and eaten the same day it is 
cooked. Using- one-half pint fine hominy g-rits to (^ne quart milk, 
soak over night, next morning- cook in a double boiler, witho. t 
stirring-, until the hominy has absorbed the milk which \\'" be in 
about an hour, then add one-half teaspoon salt. Serve with ;nilk. 



BKST RI£CEIPTS ] ,> 



WHEATLETS 

To cook wheatlets put one quart of water in the sauce pan with 
one-half teaspoon salt, when it boils sprinkle in one-half cup of 
wheatlet, stirring- all the time; boil five minutes; then shove to the 
back of the stove or if you use gas or gasoline, put an asbestos mat 
under the pan, turn the gas low and cover tightly; let it cook twenty 
minutes, it is then ready to serve. 

Mrs.N. Nelson 

RICE 

Half a pound of rice to one quart of milk. Put the milk in a 
double boiler, wash the rice and add it to the cold milk, heat quick- 
ly and cook for three quarters of an hour. The flaked rice or flaked 
wheat or barley will cook in ten or fifteen minutes as it has been 
partly cooked before being rolled. 

Mks. N. Nelson 

MILK TOAST 

« 

After bread is toasted a lig-ht brown, dip in boiling salted 
water very quickly, butter, and lay in a tureen, set in oven; just 
before serving pour over it hot cream. Serve verj- hot. 

Mks. M. W. Eldredge 

FRENCH TOAST 

To one beaten egg add one cup of milk, dip slices of bread 
quickly in this; then put into a hot skillet, with a generous amount 
of butter; fr\ to a light bi own. Serve hot. If water is used in- 
stead of milk the toast will be more tender, but not as rich. 

K. W. 

TO COOK OATMEAL QUICKLY 

To one cup of oatmeal, add two cups of cold water, one-half 
teaspoon of salt; set dish on stove and stir when it begins to boil; 
stir often and watch closely to keep from scorching; boil fifteen 
minutes. To be eaten with cream and sugar. Some prefer it 
cooked in this way. 



14 BEST RECEIPTS 



QUICK JOHNNY CAKE 

Break (me egg into ail earthen dish or g-ranite basin, add one- 
half teaspoon salt, one tablespoon sugar, one-half teaspoon soda — 
beat all well together, add to this one cup of sour milk or butter- 
milk stir ag-ain, then sift in one-half cup flour and one cup of corn- 
meal. Should this not make it thick enoug-h, add more meal. But 
remember that the cake must be quite thin, thinner than for griddle 
cakes as the meal will swell in the oven. Should your milk not be 
very rich, add one tablespoon melted butter. The best way to 
bake this is to put the tin you are g"oing- to bake it in into the oven 
with the butter or lard in it, about one teaspoonful and when this is 
nicely heated pour in the cake and bake at once in a rather quick 
oven — this will make enoug-h for a family of four, — do not have the 
batter more than half an inch thick in the tin. About twenty min- 
utes is the required time for baking-. This receipt can be used for 
g-riddle cakes- — either corn meal, g-raham, flour or wheat grits. 
Should you use it for corn meal it is best to make the batter ready 
the first thing- in the morning- before you lig-ht your fire as the meal 
swells and should itjthen be too thick, add a little sweet milk to 
thin it — should it be too thin add a little flour, — but the batter 
should be thin enoug-h to spread of itself on the g-riddle and the 
cakes should be eaten hot. Other cakes can stand in a hot covered 
dish and steam, but never corn meal cake**. 

FlOKENCE NlCLSON 

JOHNNY CAKE 

One and one-half cups corn meal, one and one-half cups flour, 
two cups sour milk, two eg-gs, tablespoon shortening:, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, two level teasi)Oons soda, — beat the egg-s till frothy, add 
shortening melted, salt, then sour milk with soda dissolved in it, 
lastlv flour and meal sifted tog-ether. Pour into a deep, broad 
bakino- tin well greased, bake in a hot oven thirty or forty minutes, 
snould be a golden brown when done. This receipt can be used as 
a pudding by adding fruit and steaming two hours, eaten with 
sweetened cream. Also can be used as Indian loaf by adding one- 
half cup molasses instead of fruit and steam two hours in a deep 
earthen dish or lard pail, 

Mrs. H. C. Hollenbeck 



BEST RECEIPTS 15 



BAKING POWDER BISCUIT AND SHORT CAKE 

Three cups flour, two heaping- teaspoons baking- powder, one- 
half teaspoon salt — these all sifted together. Rub into this a scant 
half cup butter, enough cold water to make it the right consistency 
to roll out. Roll half an inch tliick, cut with a biscuit cutter, 
put in a well buttered tin and bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. 
This dough should be handled as little as possible. This also makes 
a nice crust for strawberry shortcake. Separate the doug-h into 
two equal parts, roll each one-quarter inch thick, s.prinkle a little 
flour on the lower layer, put the top on this and both in a buttered 
tin, bake twenty or thirty minutes in a quick oven, when done let 
cool. When ready to serve cut the crust into sections, place the 
lower portion on the dish in which you wish to serve it, have ready 
the berries sugared and mashed, spread on some berries, lay the 
upper crust on this then spread more berries over this and pour 
juice over all. This is the best, easiest and daintiest way to make 
and serve strawberry shortcake. Can be eaten with or without 
cream. 

Mrs. Amy Ricnken 

FRENCH ROLLS 

One quart lukewarm sweet milk, one teaspoon salt, one large 
teacup home brewed or one-half cup bakers' yeast or one cake of 
Yeast Foam, flour to make a stiff batter, set at night in a warm 
place, well covered, in the morning add one egg well beaten, two 
tablespoons melted butter, knead inflour enough to roll. When light 
again make out into small rolls, put into a well buttered tin and rub 
each one with melted butter, let them rise half an hour. Bake half 
an hour in rather quick oven. 

Mrs. E. a. Bkay 

ROLLS ANYONE CAN MAKE 

When making bread save out one quart of sponge, to this add 
two tablespoons sugar, one egg well beaten, one-half cup melted 
butter, beat all thoroughly together, then add flour enough to make 
it stiff enough to knead softly. As soon as it is smoothly kneaded set 
aside, covered tightly, in a warm place to raise; when light, which 



16 * BEST RPXEIPTS 



win be in about one hour, mold out into small, long- rolls, place in 
deep, well greased baking- tin, put melted butter or g-ood fresh lard 
over each roll with the fing-ers before putting- in tiris, let rise in a 
warm place thirty minutss. Bake in a well heated ov^en half an hour 
or until a g-olden brown. 

Florence Nelson 

LONG BREAKFAST ROLLS 

Three and one-half cups of sweet milk, one cup butter and lard 
mixed in equal proportions, one cup potato yeast, flour enoui^- ; .o 
make into doug-h; let rise over nig-ht; in the morning- add one b .t.i ii 
eg-g-, knead thoroug-hly and let rise ag-ain. With the hands make inlo 
balls as larg-e as a small hen's eg-g-, then roll between the hand.s lo 
make rolls about three inches in leng-th, place close tog-ether in even 
rows in the pans, let rise until lig-ht and bake delicately. 

Mks. Kate Powi;ks 

POCKET BOOK ROLLS 

One-quarter cup of butter, cut with a knife into one pint of 
sifted flour, one cup of sweet milk and one cup of bread sponge, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, add enoug-h sifted flour to make a soft 
doug-h, raise until lig-ht, rollout, cut with a biscuit cutter, spread 
soft butter over the top, fold over, put into buttered tins, let g-et 
lig-ht; bake twenty minutes; when removed from the oven turn out 
of tins and roll in a thick bread cloth. If they are done just rig-ht 
they wiU.be one of the best thing-s you ever ate. 

Mrs. W. H. Srj.:p:PER 

BUNS 

Use the above receipt but add to the spong-e one eg-g- well beaten, 
one-half cup of sug-ar, flour to make a stiffer doug-h, add currants 
if 3'ou like, and mould into round rolls, just before they are done 
brown, gkize the top with the well beaten white of an eg-g-. 

Mrs. W. H. Sleeper 

GRAHAM BISCUIT 

One cup of sour milk, one eg-g-, one cup of sug-ar, one teaspoon 
of soda, one-half teaspoon of salt, one tablespoon of lard, g-raham 
flour, stir to a thick batter. N. G. 



BEST RECEIPTS 17 



HOME MADE BUNS 

One cup bread spong-e, one cup warm water, one-half cup lard, 
one-halt cup sug-ar, a pinch of salt, mix like bread, only not near so 
stiff and let raise very lig'ht, pinch off in little pieces, flatten like 
cookies and place about two inches apart in pan and let raise until 
puffed up light, and bake in not too hot an oven. 

Mks. C. V. VanEpps 

POP OVERS 

Two cups of flour, two cups of sweet nilk, two egg's, one tea- 
spoon of butter, one of salt, bake in cups in a quick oven fifteen min- 
utes, serve hot with sweet sauce. 

Mrs. Frank Coles 

POP OVERS 

One oi>i'-. wr]] beaten, one cup sweet milk, one cup flour. First 
h half the milk, add one-half teaspoon salt, now 

stir n lii^ ll^iu-, then add the balance of the milk, bake in quick oven 
in hot gem tins well buttered. When the batter is ready for the 
oven it should be of the consistency of good cream. These are 
ver}'^ nice. 

Mks. R. xA.bokx 

MUFFINS 

One tablespoon of butter, two tablespoons sug-ar, two eggs well 
beaten, stir all together; add one cup sweet milk, three teaspoons 
baking powder, flour enough to make a stiff batter, drop into but- 
ter d muffin rings or g"em tins, bake in a quick oven. Very nice 
and easily made. 

Mrs. Lizzie Caple 

GRAHAM GEMS 

One e^^ well beaten, add one tablespoon sug-ar, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, one teaspoon soda, beat all tog-ether, then add one cup 
sour or buttermilk, beat again, sift in enough graham and white 
flour (one part white to two parts graham) to make as stiff a doug-h 
as will drop from the spoon, have the g"em tins hot, drop a small 
bit of lard or butter into each one, tKen drop in a spoonful of doug-h. 
Bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

Mrs. H. G. Campbell 



18 BES'i" uKCi';iprs 



OATMEAL GEMS 

Two cups oat meai so;iked over nig"ht in one and one-half cups 
sour milk. In tlie m(.)i ning-, ad<l one-half cup molasses, one eiJij;". 
teaspoonful soda, salt and one cup Hour. 

Mks. F. E. Gkai1';.s 

CORN MEAL GEMS 

Two eggs, two tablespoons sug-ar, one tablespoon salt, two 
cups sweet milk, a small pie.ce of butter, melted, one cup cor meal, 
two cups white tiour, two teaspoons baking" powder. 

Mrs. W. S. Lamb 

griCK WAEFLES 

One pint sweet milk, one-half cup butter melted, sift in flour 
to make a soft batter, add the well beaten yolks of three eg-g-s. then 
the beaten whites and lastl}', two teaspoons of baking- powder beat- 
ing ver\' hard and fast for a few minutes. 

Mks. C. J. Lngkam 

SCRAPPLE 
i 

Chop meat fine, leaving- in about a quart of the water in which 
it cooked. . Stir in corn meal until like mush, then turn in dish to 
mold. Slice and fry in butter. 

Mrs. C. H. Ballard 

RUSK 

Make a spongfe of nearly one quart of milk and a bowl of 3^east, 
let rise over nig-ht, in the morning- add your flour (warmed), one 
cup butter, one cup sug-ar, and nutmeg, work up like bread onl}^ 
not so stiff, let rise and make into biscuits. 

Mrs. G. a. Gibson 

PAN CAKES 

To one quart of milk, add one tablespoon melted butter, two 
eggs well beaten, one-half teaspoon salt, one-third Ralston Break- 
fast Food to two-thirds flour sifted together, now add eggs, one 
teaspoonful soda dissolved in the milk, beat all together, this batter 
should not be too thick, fry in si^iall cakes put in a hot covered dish, 
S3rve. 

Mrs. M. W.-Eldrkdgp: 



BEST RECEIPTS 19 



PAX CAKES 

Two eg-g-s, one-half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon salt, beat all 
together, add one pint sweet milk and one pint sour milk mixed, 
stir well, add sifted flour enough to make a thin batter, bake on a 
hot griddle till a g^olden brown. Graham or VVheatena Four or 
Cream of Wheat can be used instead of all wheat flour. 

Mrr. Benj. Jones 

POTATO PAX CAKES 

Peel and grate eight medium sized potatoes into cold water, 
drain off the water, three egg"s beaten light, one teaspoon salt, two 
tablespoons flour, add these all to the potatoes beat all together, 
have a nice hot griddle with plenty of lard on it and drop the cakes 
on, fr}' a light brown on each side, serve right off griddle. Very 
nice. 

Mrs. Louise Zellak 

BUCKWHEAT PAX CAKES 

Two quarts of luke warm water, one teaspoon of salt, have dis- 
solved one yeast cake, add this to the water, add buckwheat flour 
enough to make a thick batter and let-it stand twenty-four hours, 
when ready to use it, thin the batter with sweet milk, in which has 
been dissolved one-half teaspoon of soda, reserve some of this for 
yeast. At night add the water, salt, and buckwheat the same, 
next morning" thin with sweet milk, add the soda, repeat this pro- 
cess until your batter becomes' sour, when you will .have to begin 
again, keep in a cool place through the da_v but after batter is set 
at night, keep in a warm place. 

Grandma 



20 BEST RECEIPTS 



FRITTERS AND CROQUETTES 



-^="''^^§''"2^^^^ 



TOMATO FRITTERS 

One quart tomatoes and yolk of one egg* well beaten; one 
teaspoon salt, one-quarter teaspoon pepper, two cups fine 
bread crumbs or rolled crackers. Stew the tomatoes until reduced 
to a pint. When cold add the seasoning- and crumbs. Stir all to- 
g-ether well and fry in hot lard, dropping- in a spoonful at a time, 
the same as doughnuts. 

Mrs. H. C. Eli.iutt 

CORN FRITTIiRvS 

Twelve ears g-reen corn, three egg's, one tablespoon sweet 
cream, one-half cup sifted flour, one quarter teaspoon g-round pep- 
per, one level teaspoon salt. Cilk the corn; cut throug-h each row 
with a sharp knift, then scrape clean from the c«b. (One can of 
corn can be used instead. ) Beat the eg"gs thoroughly; add cream, 
pepper, salt, the corn, and lastly the flour. Beat all well together; 
drop by spoonfuls into a frying pan that has three tablespoons of 
hot lard in it. When brown turn over and brown, then lift onto a 
hot plate. Delicious. 

Hannah Bowne 

CROQUETTES 

Chop sufficient cold meat of any kind to make one pint, put one- 
half pint milk over fire; rub together one tablespoon of butter and 
two of flour, add to milk and stir until thick and smooth. Season 
meat with one teaspoon salt and dash of pepper, one teaspoon of 
onion juice or chopped onion, tablespoon chopped parsley, a little 
dessicated celery.. Mix all with the gravy; set aside to cool. When 
cold form into croquettes; dip in beaten egg-, roll in cracker crumbs 
and fry in smoking hot fat. This will make seven croquettes. 
You will never know how good this is until you try it. 

Hannah Bowne 



BICST RECEIPTS 21 



PLAIN FRITTERS 

Four cups of flour, one larg-e tablespoon of baking- powder, two 
cups of water slig-htly warmed, three egfgfs, three tablespoons of 
melted lard, one cup of molasses, pinch of salt, lard to fry. Add 
baking- powder to flour and sift in pan. Make hollow in middle and 
add the other ing-redients. Use water not quite cold enoug-h to set 
lard; mix thoroughly into a soft doug-h. It may need a little more 
water. Beat well. 

William Boughman 

PLAIN FRITTER SAUCE 

Four cups of water, two cups of sug-ar, a lemon peel, a little 
mace, a few cloves, one-half cup of corn starch. Boil the water 
with the flavoring- in it; mix the starch in the sugar dry, drop it 
into the water quickl}' and beat with an egg- whip, strain it into an- 
other sauce pan and let simmer. It will become clear like syrup. 

William Boughman 

POTATO FRITTERS 

Boil eig-ht large potatoes and let stand over nig-ht. Grate them 
and add bits of bread fried in hot butter, two eg-g-s, one tablespoon 
flour and a pinch of salt. Mix all this tog-ether, make into balls and 
fry in butter. Serve hot. 

Mks. W. a. Petzoldt 



22 RKST RECEIPTS 



SANDWICHES 

PEANUT SANDWICHES 

Salad Cream: Two eg^j^s well beaten, eig-ht tablespoons vine- 
gar, one table«.poon mustard, one teaspoon sug-ar, one-half teaspoon 
salt, one tal)lespoon melted butter m- fresh salad oil. Put this mix- 
ture in a bowl, set into a basin of boiling- water, then place on the 
stove and stir the mixture until it is thick. When it iscojked take 
from ihe sto\e and add one-half cup of sweet cream, stir all to- 
gether. 'J'ake well baked peanuts, shell and rub off the inner skin, 
then run throug-h a meat cutter or chop tine. Mix with the salad 
cream, half and half, and spread on unbuttered thin slices of bread. 
Verv nice. Mks. Ef.kanok Cibson 

EGG SANDWICHES 

Three bard boiled eggs chopped fine, one medium sized cucum- 
ber, peeled and sliced into cold water, drained and chopped fine; 
one-quarter teaspoon each, pepper, salt and a little made mustard. 
Put all tog-ether and rub smoothly with a spoon. spread between 
slices of buttered crustless bread. Mks. J. E. VanPattkn. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES 

Take tender lettuce leaves, pour over them mayonaise dress- 
ing-, put between thin slices of buttered bread. Chopped tong-ne is 
also nice for sandwiches with this dressing- over it, or any kind of 
cold meat can be used in the same way. 

DILL SANDWICHES 

Chop dill pickles ver}' fine, press off all the juice and add 
enoug-h French mustard to spread well. Take thin slices oi gra- 
ham bread slightly buttered, spread with the dill filling-, place 
ti-o-ether. (Orig-inal. ) Mks. Obek 

CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Equal parts chopped nut meats and cheese with enoug-h salad 
dressing- to spread. This is g-ood filling- for either graham or white 
bread cut in thin slices, in fancy shapes or plain. Mrs. Obkk 



RK.ST RFecrcTP . 2.^ 



Vegetables 



-^^'^S'^^S^^'^^ 



We should eat more vegetables and less meat not only as a 
matter of economy but also as a matter of health; foi* one pound of 
old beans costing- five cents will yield in food value as much as two 
pounds of beef costing twent3"-live cents; also the same or nearly 
so can be said of old peas. A little baking- soda added to the water 
in which old beans or peas are cooked removes the strong flavor, 
making- them more palatable. 

Vegetables should be washed in cold water, using a small 
scrub-brush or a coarse cloth. All vegetables should be boiled in 
salted water, and not boiled a moment longer than necessary, or 
their flavor will be gone. 

Mrs. Nkf-lir Niolson 

ESCALLOPED POTATOES 

Peel and slice thin raw potatoes the same as for frying, butter 
an earthen dish, put in a layer of cracker crumbs, then a layer of 
potatoes, season with salt, pepper, and bits of butter, then a layer 
of cracker crumbs, the potatoes, and seasoning, and so on until dish 
is full, fill dish with sweet milk until patotoes a'l'e covered, bake one 
hour. Cold boiled potatoes ma}^ be fixed the same way and are 
very nice, but should be cooked only twenty minutes. Add onions 
if you like. 

Mrs. p. W. Hall 

MOLDED POTATOES WITH CHEESE SAUCE 

Boil and mash enough for dinner, making soft with hot milk and 
tablespoon of butter, make into mold on plate for oven, scoop out 



24 BEST RECICIPTS 



from center to make a deep cavity, g-laze inside and out with white 
of an eg-g-, use without beating-, and set in the oven. Melt six table- 
spoons of butter, and while hot, add four tablespoons of g-rated 
cheese, pour slowly, stirring- all the time, over yolks of two eg-g-s well 
beaten, add one-quarter teaspoon pepper and one-quarter salt, fill 
cavity, sprinkle on top with fine bread crumbs and brown in the 
oven. 

Mrs. Edith Daily 

POTATOES AU GRAUTEN 

Chop or cut into dish cold boiled potatoes, butter w^ell a g-ranite 
dish, put in first a layer of potatoes, then grated cheese and salt, 
some bits of butter, a little speck of cayenne pepper and then potatoes, 
and so on until dish is nearly full, cover top with cheese, pour over 
this enoug-h cream or rich milk to cover potatoes. Should you use 
cream do not put in the butter; but if milk, sprinkle in among- layers 
one teaspoon flour. 

Mrs. W. L. Ayers 
POTATOES WITH FISH 

Peel and boil medium sized potatoes, drain, boil in a separate 
dish Salmon steaks, serve on the same hot dish both fish and potatoes 
covered with the dressing made as follows: Put butter the size of 
an egg- in a deep bowl, something- that can be set in the top of the 
teakettle, rub into this butter one heaping- tablespoon of sifted 
flour; when it is all melted and mixed smooth remove from the tea- 
kettle, pour the boiling water into the bowl, slowly stirring- all the 
time, until a pint of water has been used. It should be cooked 
enoug-h, but if it is not return to the top of the teakettle and let 
steam until gravy Ijas a nice creamy look, add one-half teaspoon of 
salt, stir in; pour this over the fish and potatoes before serving-, send 
to table ..ot. Very nice. Should there beany fish and potatoesleft 
cold, chop all tog-ether make into round flat cakes, fry lig-ht brown 
in hot fat or butter. Nice for tea. 

Mrs. BicN Jones 
POTATO CHIPS 

Peel medium sized potatoes, slice thin with a slaw cutter or a 
very sharp knife into cold water, let stand one hour put into a col- 



BICST Kr^XF.IPTS 



ander and let drain, put on a cloth, wipe dry as possible, drop into 
boiling- hot lard, fry a lig-ht brown, skim into a colander to drain 
and sprinkle with salt; serve cold; will keep a number of days. 

Mrs. F. L. WiracK 

WARMED OVER POTATOES 

Cold boiled potatoes chopped fine, one tablespoon of butter and 
bacon fat, put into a frying- pan, and when hot put in the chopped 
potatoes, seasoned with salt and pepper to taste, stir while cooking- 
frequently, until a golden brow^n; serve hot. These are dandy. 

Col. D. G. Eldrkdge 

MASHED WHITE POTATOES 

Peel and cut into quarters if large, have them all as near the 
same size as possible, put into boiling unsalted water, boil until ten- 
der, but not until they go to pieces, drain, sprinkle lightly with salt, 
set back over the fire, shaking fhem one minute, then add two table- 
spoons of cream, one tablespoon of butter, and with a steel fork 
mash and beat them until they are alT smooth, creamy and light; 
have ready a hot dish, put the potatoes into it, smooth the top, put 
in three lumps of butter equal distance apart on top and sprinkle 
lightly with pepper, if you prefer it; set in a hot oven, let stand 
about five or ten minutes. Potatoes fixed this way will melt in the 
mouth. 

Mrs. Bknj. Jones 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES 

Peel and wash the potatoes, slice into quarters lengthwise or 
should the potatoes be larg-e cut the quarters in two leng-ths, di op 
in hot lard and fry a light brown, take out onto a hot plate, 
sprinkle lig-htly with salt and serve hot. 

Mrs. C. p. Millkr 

POTATOES TO FRY 

Boil potatoes with skins on, these always taste better fried 
than potatoes cooked any other way. When cold, peel, slice thin, 
fry in hot butter, have the butter very hot before you put the pota- 



26 »KST KKCv:iris 



toes in, sprinkle with a teaspoon of salt and fry to a lig-ht brown, 
stirring- frequently, but do not chop. Serve hot. An onion can be 
added to these if you like. 

' Mr?. Bbnj. JojfKS 

A SOUTHERN WAY OF COOKING SWEET POTATOES 

Peel, cut in round slices, boil until nearly done, remove to bak- 
ing dish, sprinkling- each layer with sug-ar and put sug-ar on the 
top, moisten with a little water. Place in the oven nnd bake until 
very tender. 

Sioux City, Iowa Ida M. Casady 

GREEN TEAS 

Shell g-reen peas, look over carefully, boil in sufticieut water to 
cover,-for thirty minutes, mash, add to them a tablespoon of butter, 
one-half cup of cream, let bt)il up, serve hot. Two or three new 
potatoes boiled and then added to the peas are very nice, 

Mks. Benj. Jones 

GREIiN PEAS 

Shell nice young- peas, being- careful not to get any dirt in them 
as they are better not to be wasl ed, cook in salted water until ten- 
der, drain, season with one-half cup of cream, one tablespoon but- 
ter, and a dash of pepper and let them boil up once and serve. 
Very nice. 

Mrs. W. M. Eldriodge 

CARROTS 

Wash and scrape carrots, boil until tender, drain, chop fine, 
put in a basin, season with erne tablespoon of butter, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, one-half cup of cream, set in a hot oven ten minutes. 

CELERY 

Chop fine or cut in small lengths the green part and the parts 
of celery not good to use on the table fresh, put on the stove in suf- 
ficient water to cook it, when done, which will be in thirty minutes, 



BEST RECEIPTS 27 



do nut drain, but add to the celery onc-hedf cup of cream or rich 
milk, one tablespoon of butter. If you use milk you will not need 
salt, as the celery is one of the vegetables to be cooked in salted 
water. Serve hot. 

ESCALLOrp:D OXIOXS 

Boil onions until tender, put in baking- dish first a layer of 
onions, salt, pepper and bits of butter, then a layer of bread 
crumbs, repeat until the dish is full, pour milk or crecira over until 
thoroug-hly moistened, bake one-half hour. 

Mks. Ir. W. Eldredgk 
COLD SLAW 

Two-thirds cup vinegar, one egg, two tablespoons sugar, one 
teaspoon salt, half teaspoon mustard and butter size of an <sgg\ stir 
until it boils. When cold pour over shaved cabbage. This is much 
nicer if one-half cup of cream is added when cold. If cream is u^^imI, 
use less vinegar. 

Amy Carson 

CABBAGB 

Chop fine one medium head of cabbage, boil fifteen minutes in 
salted water. Use very little water so that when the cabbage is 
done the water will all be boiled away; then add one tablespoon but- 
ter and two tablespoons vinegar; let simmer ten minutes and 
serve hot. 

BAKED CABBAGE 

Boil one medium sized head of cabbage until tender, drain in a 
colander, chop fine and season with one-haif leaspoon salt, one- 
quarter teaspoon pepper. Add one cup cream, or rich milk with a 
lump of butter. Put in a dish and bake one hour. Serve hot. 
Ver}' delicate and palatable. 

Mrs. Fidi:lia Pkrky 

BAKED TOMATOES 

Peel and slice nice ripe tomatoes one quarter of an inch thick, 
place in layers in a pudding dish or granite basin, seasoning each 



28 BKST RECEIPTS 



layer with pepper, salt, butter and a little white suj;;.)-. Cover 
with a lid or large plate and bake one half hour; remove liie lid and 
brown fifteen minutes. Just before taking from oven pour over 
the top four tablespoons of whipped cream and melted butler; about 
a spoonful of butter. Simply delicious. ' 

MkS. F. W. i.OUCK 

FRIED GREEN OR RIPE TOMATOES 

Wash and cut into one-half inch slices, large firm tomatoes; 
season with salt and pepper, dredg-e well with flour or roll in beaten 
eg-g apd cracker crumbs; fry on both sides evenly in hot lard and 
butter mixed, until a nice brown. Serve hot. 

Mks. F. W. KorCK 

vSTC I-^I- ED TOM ATOEvS 

Cut a thin '^lice from the blosstmi end of twelve smooth, ripe 
tomatoes, remove pulp. Chop fine small head of caljbage and one 
onion, add bread crumbs rubbed fine and pulp of tomatoes; season 
with one teaspoon salt, a very little pepper and a teaspoon sugar; 
add cup sweet cream*, mix thoroug-hl}' and put into ton:. . Lw > hells; 
then put in buttered baking- tin with enoug-h hot water to cover 
bottom and bake half an hour. If preferred omit cabbage and 
cream and use finely chopped cold m^at in>itead. Just before serv- 
ing place a bit of butter on the top of each tomato. 

Mrs. P^dith Daily 

TOMATO ASPIC FOR TWELVE PEOPLE 

One can tomatoes; strain and put them in the saucepan with 
a slice of onion, a couple of bay leaves, a few celery tops, a teaspoon 
salt, one-half teaspoon paprika or dash of cayenne. Bring to boil- 
ing point and add three-quarters box of gelatine which has been 
soaked in one-half cup of cold water half an hour; mix until dis- 
solved and add juice of half a lemon and strain again. Pour into 
egg cups or small fancy molds, stand aside on ice four or five hours. 
When time to serve dip each mold quickly in boiTng water .ird 
turn contents on lettuce leaves. Serve plain or with mayonna.se 
dressing. 

Mks. Edith b jj.y 



BE.ST RECEIPTS 2'' 



ESCALOPED TOMATOES 

Put in a buttered baking- dish a layer of bread or cracker 
crumbs seasoned with bits of butter, then a layer of sliced toma- 
toes; season with butter, pepper and salt, and sugar if desired; 
then a layer of crumbs and so on till dish is full, finish with the 
crumbs. Put in a little milk, not much on account of the tomatoes 
being juicy. Use butter g-enerously. Some like to add onions. 

Mks. Dk. Myeks 

TO COOK PEAS 

After preparing, take from the water in which they were 
washed and without draining put In a granite kettle which contains 
a g'enerous lump of butter, have this very hot when peas are added; 
let them boil in this rapidly for eight minutes, stirring- often. 
"While in the butter, season with salt and pepper. Add 
water enough to just cover; let them boil until very tender; water 
by tins time will be nearly evaporated, add sweet cream or milk; 
let boil up once and serve. 

Mks. L. Wagner 

TO COOK ONIONS 

If large, quarter, cook in boiling salt water; when tender drain 
and add milk; when it boils again season with pepper and but- 
ter. Serve. 

Mrs. Collins 

BAKED ONIONS 

When onions are prepared put in a baking pan, season with 
butter, pepper and salt; place in oven; cook until very tender. 
About ten minutes before serving add cream. Serve hot. 

Mrs. W. Hicks 

EvSCALOPED CORN 

One can of corn; put a layer in baking dish and season with 
butter, salt and pepper, then add a layer of rolled crackers, over 
which pour one-half cup milk or cream, then add another layer of 



30 BEST RKCEIPTS 



coru, and so on until dish is tilled, having cracker crrmbs'on top 
layer. Bake to a nice brown. Cabbao-e and onions are good this 
way, only boil cabbage and onions first, taking juice instead of milk. 

LiCNA Stiokl 

FRIED APPLES 

Take n'lze tart apples, wipe off well, cut out the blow end and 
slice across through the core, medium thickness. Have a frying 
pan with hot fat in it; lay in the apples, fry a light brown and turn 
on other side and fry same. Lay on a hot plate, sprinkle with 
sugar and serve. Very nice. 

Mrs. J. B. Wilsey 

BEETS 

Wash with a brui»h, rinse well, put into boiling unsalted water 
and boil one hour or until tender; remove to a dish, pour over them 
cold water and remove skin. Chop fine, season with salt, pepper 
and butter; serve hot. Ver}'^ nice. Some add vinegar. 

Mrs. Jamks Corbett 

BEETS WITH DRESSING 

Take young beets, wash, after removing tops; cook till tender. 
Remove from fire and slice thin. Dressing: One-half cup sugar, 
scant tablespoon flour, larg-e tablespoon butter; mix the fiourand 
sugar, put in the butter; pour over these boiling water, about one- 
h:df cup, then add one-half cup vinegar. Put the beets into a gran- 
ite basin, pour the dressing over the4n, cover and set where it will 
keep very hot, but not boil, for twenty minutes to half an hour. 

Mrs. E. Riddell 

CANNED BEETS 

Take young beets, clean well, put into boiling water, cook until 
tender; remove into cold water, take off the peel, slice thinly. Put 
over the fire one pint each of w^ater and vinegar and one cup sugar; 
let boil until sugar is dissolved; put into this the beets and let come 
to a boil. Put into cans and seal. Very nice, when young beets 
cannot be obtained. . 

Mrs. E. Riddell 



HRST RECEIPTS 31 



PARSNIPS 

Wash and scrape, then boil unt'l tender. Remo/e from kettle, 
slice leng-thwise, roll in flour and fry in hot butter to a lig-ht brown, 
on both sides. 

Mrs. Paul Mahler 

STRING BEAXS 

Take nice tender beans, cut up into inch leng-ths, wash them, 
put on to cook in boiling- water, with a lump of soda, the size of a pea, 
in the water, boil ten minutes, drain well, then put on hot water 
enoug-h to cover, with one teaspoon salt; boil three-quarters of an 
hour, pour off water, set back on stove, pour over them one small 
cup vineg-ar, rub tog-ether one tablespoon butter and one teaspoon 
flour, stir itho beans; salt and pepper. 

Mrs. F. Webster. 

STRING BEANS * 

Wash, string and cut into short lengths; bo'l until tender, which 
will be in about tiairty or forty minutes, drain well, add tablespoon 
butter, one-half cup cream; if 3'^ou have not the cream use rice, 
milk and more butter; thicken with one-half teaspoon corn starch. 
Serve hot. 

Mrs. F. W. Houck 

STRING r.EANS 

String- and break into short lengths, wash and put into boiling- 
water, in which has been put a piece of baking- soda, the size of a 
pea; boil five minutes, drain, return to fire, pour over them enoug-h 
boiling- water to nearly cover; take a small piece of salt pork, put 
into the beans, cook until done. Serve hot. 

TURNIPS IN A DAINTY WAY 

Peel and slice nice sweet turnips, wash in cold water, cook till 
tender, drain, add one-half teaspoon sug-ar, one teaspoon butter, 
one-quarter teaspoon salt, one beaten eg-g-, t\vo tatlespoons vineg-ar, 



BEST RECEIPTS 



beat thoroug-hly, add to the turnips just before removing- from fire, 
stir in well, watch closely and remove as soon as dressing- looks 
creamy, which will be in about one minute. 

Mks. C. p. Millicr 

HOW TO HOIL KICE 

Put one pint of rice into nearly two quarts of cold milk, an 
hour before dinner, one teaspoon salt, boil slowly, stir often; when 
nearly done stir in two well beaten eggs, one teaspooi. ^..ated 
cheese, half tablespoon butter; bake a few minutes in hot ovt- n. 

Mks. J. W. Hicks 

TO COOK CAULIFLOWER 

Boil in water enoug^h to cover until tender, drain, brown some 

butter, turn over cauliflower, season with salt and pe^ per. 

Mks. G. W. CAK^lo^•Tl:K 
< 

ASPARAGUS 

i 

Take nice tender asparagus, cut into short lengths, cook until 
tender in boiling- salted water, which will take twenty or twenty- 
iive minutes, drain, set back on fire, add one teaspoon butter, one 
cup sweet milk or cream. If you use milk, moisten < ne-half tea- 
spoon of corn starch in a little cold 'milk, and add to tlie asparagus 
to g-ive it a creamy taste, let boil up once. Serve hot. This is nice 
over little squares of toasted bread. 

Mks. D. H. Mooke 

SQUASH 

Cut into sections, take out the seeds and wipe off the outside 
carefully, steam half or three-quarters of an hour. Serve hot in 
the shell. 

Mks. Amgie Donovan 

SQUASH 

Cut it up into strips, take off outer rind and inner surface, put 
in kettle and cook until tender, drain, mash fine, season with salt, 
pepper, butter and cream. 

Mrs. James Roberts 



BKST RICCEIPTS 33 



SUMMER SQUASH 

After preparing-, ^lice, dip in flour and fry slowly in butter. 

Mrs. M. W. Eldkedgk 

DEVILED EGG PLANT 

Wash well one eg-g- plant, boil until it can be easily pierced with 
a knitting- needle, cut the shell in half, scoop out the inside and 
chop, mixing- with stale bread crumbs, being- careful not to break 
the shell in scooping- out the inside, and have the bread crumbs 
well g-rated or roiled fine; add butter the size of an eg-g-, one eg-g- 
well beaten, one teaspoon salt, a dash of red pepper, one medium 
sized onion, g-rated, perhaps a little cream should the mixture be 
not moist enough; pack back into shells, cover top with toasted 
bread crumbs, set into baking- tins and bake half an hour. Serve 
hot in the shells, the dish g-arnished with parslej' or any pretty 
leaves. Ver}' nice. 

Mrs. W. L. Ayrks 

SOUR KRAUT 

Always use stone jar, sprinkle jar with flour, take ten medium 
sized heads of cabbag-e, after they are chopped, sprinkle with a 
handful. of salt; press down solid with hands, cover with cabbage 
leaves, then a cloth, after this with a board or plate, then a heavy 
stoiie, set in cellar. Will be ready to use in about six weeks. 
Wash cloth once a week. 

Mrs. Paul Fiebig 

TO COOK SOUR KRAUT 

Take out of jar and drain well, put in kettle with a piece of fat 
pork, boil one hour and a half, in water enoug-h to keep from scorch- 
ing-; after having- boiled, drain, sprinkle one tablespoon flour over 
it, stir thoroug-hly. Serve hot. 

Mrs. Knauer 

HASH 

Cold corned beef chopped fine, remove all the bits of g-ristle 
and chop cold boiled potatoes which have been cooked with the beef; 



34 BEST kkcf:ipt.s 



mix, in the proportion of one part meat to two parts potatoes, have 
a hot frying- pan with a tablespoon of butter in it, turn in the hash, 
pour over it two tablespoons of water, cover closely, let brown, 
stirring- often. Best hash you ever ate. 



Mks. L, L. Bassett 



HASH 



Young tender beets, cook, peeled and chopped, cold boiled 
potatoes chopped, mix the two tog-ether, season with one teaspoon 
salt, one-quarter teaspoon pepper to one pint of hash, put one table- 
spoon butter in the frying- pan, when hot put in the hash, put two 
tablespoons hot water, cover tightly, let brown, stirring- often. Use 
two parts potatoes to one of beets. Very nice. 

Harriette Stinson 



BEACH & WELD 

HARDWARE 

508 Fourth St. SIOUX CITY, IOWA 



BKST KECEIPTS 35 



CHEESE AND MACARONI 



-^=-"^S^^2;^"^ 



CHEESE FONDU 

Melt one tablespoon butter, add one cup of milk, one-eig"hth tea- 
spoon of soda, a cup of freshly g-rated bread crumbs, two of grated 
cheese, season with salt and pepper, when smooth add two beaten 
eg"g"s, and after thick serve on toast or wafers. 

Mks. Will Aiken 

MACARONI WITH CHEESE 

Use one-half package Macaroni (prepared by Italian Macaroni 
and Vermicelli Co.) put three quarts of boiling water in a sauce 
pan and add the Macaroni broken in small pieces, boil one-half hour, 
drain well, cover with cold water fifteen minutes longer, drain 
again, place in baking dish with two tablespoons of butter, one cup 
4)f milk, two-thirds cup of grated cheese, one-half teaspoon of salt 
and a little pepper, sprinkle with cheese and bake one-half hour in a 
hot oven. 

Mrs. Will Aiken 

WELSH RAREBIT 

One large cup of grated cheese, one-fourth cup of sweet cream, 
put cream into oatmeal cooker and bring to a boil, put in cheese, 
season \\'\ih one-fourth teaspoon salt and a dash of pepper, when 
the cheese is melted, stir in the beaten yolk of one egg, take from 
stove and spread on heated wafers. Serve at once. 

Mks. Clara Manning 

BAKED MACARONI 

Break in short lengths one package of Macaroni, wash, but do 
not let stand in water, put on in boiling water, cook twenty minutes, 
take out ioto a pan, water and all, there must not be ver}' much 



BKST RECEIPTS 



water, add one tablespoon of butter, one-fourth pound of g-rated 
cheese, one teaspoon salt, if you have beef broth, pour a pint of it 
over the macaroni and do not use salt, set in the oven bake one-half 
hour or until it is brown over the top, do not add the cheese until 
last thing- before putting- in the oven, spread it over the top. 

Mrs. Louise Zfc:LLAR 

MACAKOxNI AND CHEESE 

Break the macaroni in small pieces and stew in salted water 
until tender, butter a pudding dish, put in a layer of macaroni and 
cover with cheese either g-rated or cut in small bits, another la3'er 
of macaroni and so on till the dish is filled putting- cheese on top 
and seasoning- each layer with a little salt and pepper and bits of 
butter, turn over it milk to cover ami bake thirty minutes. 

Mrs. Obek 

MACARONI WITH OWSTERvS 

Boil macaroni in salt water, after which drain through a col- 
ander, use a deep earthen dish or tin, put in alternate layers of 
macaroni and oysters, sprinkle each layer of macaroni with grated 
cheese, bake until bro\vn. 

AiMY Carson 



BEST RECEIPTS 37 



Sovps 



'^^'^'^S"^^^^^^ 



The best soups are not made from the "soup bones" boug-ht at 
■the market for the purpose. 

Cut off the good meat left on the bones of roasts or steaks and 
use it for stews, meat pies, salads or hash. The bones, fat or 
g-ristl}^ meat with scraps that may be left make the best of soups. 
The brown color and good g-rav}^ taste of such soup cannot be imi- 
tated with a fresh bone. Let the bones simmer on the back of the 
stove for several hours, then pour oif the broth and set in a cold 
place. When the grease has hardened over the top remove it all. 
Carelessness about this makes an unpalatable soup or one that is 
hard for delicate people to digest. Then simply season with salt 
and pepper while it is hot, add either vegetables or beans. Strain 
these out sometimes, for a variety, or sometimes thicken the soup a 
little with flour for a change. Soup, like, salad, must be tasted and 
seasoned till it is good. The skins and bones of chicken and tur- 
keys make excellent soup. A little well cooked rice, barley, or even 
oatmeal in soup is a good variety especiall}' in chicken or turkey 
soup. The fat that is left in the soup basin can be put on the back 
of the stove in a covered basin and fried out from which good 
shortening may be in this way procured. Pour a little hot water 
over the grease that was removed from the soup broth or stock 
and let it melt. When cold remove the grease for shortening. 

Waterloo, Iowa Sarah W. Whitney 

USES OF SOUP STOCK 

When one is tired of soup or in warm weather the soup stock is 
excellcn to use for boiling beans, either drv or string beans, also 



38 BKST RECEIPTS 



for cooking- g-reeus of all kinds and turnips. This stock is much 
easier dig-ested than the pork which is usually used. If dry beans 
are well seasoned with salt, pepper, and a little sug-ar or molasses, 
the soup stock g-ives theni an excellent flavor, besides one has 
avoided all indig^estible fats. 

Waterloo, Iowa Sakah W. WnrrNicv 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP 

Take one cup of canned tomatoes or three g-ood sized ripe to- 
matoes, cook in two cups of water fifteen minutes, mash, strain 
throug-h a sieve or coffee strainer, return to the fire, add one tea- 
spoon butter, one-half teaspoon salt, one-quarter teaspoon pepper, 
one larg-e tablespoon sug-ar, stir these all in, when hot add a lump 
of soda the size of a pea, and then one cup of sweet cream, or milk, 
if you have not the cream, stir one mniute, remove from fire. 
Serve. 

jNIks. N. Nelson 

CLEAR TOMATO SOUP 

Observe the same directions as for cream tomato soup, onl}-^ do 
not add the soda or milk, but use instead the same amount of water, 
added when the tomatoes are first put on to cook and use one table- 
spoon of butter, and one teaspoon of corn starch dissolved in 
water, and stirred in, let boil until clear, strain before serving-. 

Mks. N. Nelson 

FOR VEGETABLE SOUP 

Use one quart of stock, dilute with one quart of water, cut into 
small dice, two medium sized potatoes, one good or two small sized 
carrots, one small turnip, one medium sized onion,' two stalks of 
celery cut fine, cut these all into fresh, cold water, drain in the col- 
ander, add to the soup stock, season, with salt and pepper to taste, 
cook until the veg-etables are tender which will be in about half an 
hour. Serve hot. 

Mrs. N. Nelson 

CREAM OF SWEET POTATO SOUP 

Boil fresh or should you have two or three cold boiled sweet 
potatoes left from the day before, put them into water enoug-h to 



BEST RECKIPIS 39 



cover, after cutting- them into small pieces, boil until they can 
be mashed, mash in the water in which they have been cooked, 
add one pint of sweet milk, one tablespoon of butter, one-half 
teaspoon of salt, and one-quarter teaspoon pepper, let boil up once, 
serve hot. When ready to serve put the coffee strainer in the 
bowl, strain the soup throug-h this and send to the table. 

Mrs. N. Nelson 

NOODLES FOR SOUP 

Rub into two eggs as much flour as they will absorb, then roll 
out until thin as wafers, dust in a little flour then roll over and over 
into a little roll, cut off thin slices from roll and shake out into long" 
strips, put them into the soup lightly and boil for ten minutes, salt 
should be added while mixing- with flour, about a tablespoon. This 
is used in beef or chicken stock. 

Mrs. Palmitier 

POTATO SOUP 

Peel four medium sized potatoes and cut in small pieces, two 
small onions, cut fine, add one-half cup of rice, season with salt and 
pepper, and a generous lump of butter, add water enough to cover, 
cook tender, then mash with potato masher, thin with milk to the 
required consistenc}', let boil once. Serve. 

Will Powers 

DUMPLINGS FOR CHICKEN BROTPI 

One and one-half cups of flour, to which a little salt has been 
added, two larg-e teaspoons of baking powder, butter the size of a 
large hen's egg, mix like biscuit dough, cut in strips and drop in 
boiling broth, after skimming broth. 

Mrs. Mc 

CORN SOUP 

For a quart of milk, cut down the g-rains and press out the 
pulp from six good sized ears of corn previously cooked, heat the 
milk, add a little fine chopped onion, a lump of butter, salt and pep- 
per to taste and thicken by adding a tablespoon of flour well mixed 
with a little cold water. 

Mks. J. M. McFarland 



40 BEST RECEIPTS 



EGGS 



' Eg-gs to be g-ood when cooked must be fresh. To tell g-ood 
eg"g"s put them in water, those which lie on the side are g"ood, re- 
ject all that stand on end, or look throug-h eg^g-s seperately towards 
the sun, or towards a lamp in a darkened room. If the whites look 
clear and the yolk can be easily disting-uished the eg-g- is gfood. A 
safe plan is to break each egg" seperately in a cup before using-. 

BAKED EGGS AND CHEESE 

Place a la3'er of grated cheese in a g-ranitc pic tin, break on 
this six egg's, sprinkle over these one-half teaspoon salt, one-quart- 
er teaspocn pepper, sprinkle thickly with grated cheese, six tea- 
spoon sweet milk, bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in a rather 
quick oven, the leng-th of time depends on whether you wish the 
egg-s hard or soft. 

Mrs. L. Wirick 

vSTEAMED EGGS 

Butter a common white dinner plate, break into it six eg'gs, 
sprinkle one-half teaspoon salt, one-quarter teaspoon pepper over 
them, put a bit of butter on the top of each egg, get in a steamer or 
the top of a steam cooker, cook ten or fifteen minutes, the time 
depends on whether j^ou wish the egfg^s hard or soft, serve on the 
i^late they are cooked on. 

Mrs. N. Nelsox 

HAM OMELETTE 

Six eg-gs, one scant cup sweet milk, one even teaspoon corn 
starch, one cup of boiled ham chopped fine, separate the whites and 
v.ilks. beat thoroughly, add milk in which corn starch has been 



BEST RECEIPTS 41 



dissolved and lastl}' stir in miuced ham, pour into a buttered pud- 
ding- dish, bake immediately in a hot oven fifteen minutes, should 
it brown too rapidly cover until it sets, turn on to a hot platter 
and serve at once. 

Mrs. J. E. Van Patten 

RICE CAKES 

One teacup soft boiled rice, yolk of one eg"g" well beaten, one- 
quarter teaspoon salt, two tablespoons sifted flour, beat togfether, 
then add sweet milk until about the consistency of spong^e cake 
or thick cream, just before baking- stir in lig-htly the beaten white 
of one eg-gf, bake on griddle like pan cakes. Nice for invalids. 

Mrs. Lizzie Caple 

BAKED EGGS 

Butter muffin tins, using^ a liberal amount of butter, heat but- 
ter, then break in eg-g-sand season, remember the quicker that eg-g-s 
are cooked the better. 

Mrs. L. H. Ten Eyck 

EGGS A LA SUISSE 

Cover the bottom' of a shallow basin with melted butter, then 
sprinkle over with g-rated cheese, on this drop as many eg-g"s as 
you wish to cook, salt, pepper and a teaspoon of cream on each 
egg-, then cover lig-htl}^ with g-rated cheese, bake in a moderate 
oven fifteen minutes. 

Rushmore, Minn. Mrs. W. S. Still 

STUFFED EGGS 

Boil five or six eg'g-s hard, throw into ice cold water until per- 
fectly cold, peel them carefully and cut in two, leng-thwise, extract 
the yolk, rub them into a paste with a dessert spoon of butter, 
season with a pinch of pepper and a scant teaspoon of salt, and 
work in some ver}^ finely minced chicken, or other poultry, or 
livers, if you have none substitute such cold meat as you have, 
bind the mixture with a beaten eg-g-, mold into balls the same shape 
and size as the ejected yolks and fill the whites with them, fasten 



42 BEST RECEIPTS 



with toothpicks, roll in beaten eg-g-s and cracker crumbs and fry 
quickly in hot lard, drain them on paper, do not withdraw the 
toothpicks when you serve them. 

PRESERVED EGGS FOR WINTER USE 

Procure fresh eg-g-s in September, grease with lard, roll in 
paper and pack in oats, small end down, best way I have found, 
though trying different ways. Eggs do not lose in weight, and are 
fresher. 

Mrs. K. Powers 

TO PRESERVE EGGS 

One pint of slacked lime to the consistency of thick mush; one- 
h'dli pint salt; three gallons of water; stir together and let stand 
until it settles, and pour the liquid over the eggs, which should be 
placed in a jar. 

Mrs. Van Patten 



H. & H. SHOE COMPANY 

512 Fourth St. SIOUX CITY, IOWA 



BKST RECEIPTS 43 



Fish and Oysters 



'^^'''^S^^^^^*^^ 



Fish ai'e among- our best brain foods because they are so rich 
in phosphates. They should be cleaned as quickly as possible 
after leaving- the water. Scales are more easily removed if hot 
water is poured over the fish. Remove any mud taste by soaking 
in strong salt water. To fry, dip in eg-g- and bread crumbs; use 
lard, not butter; or simply dredg-e with flour. Salt fish must be 
soaked several hours before cooking-. 

STUFFED SHAD 

Use bread crumbs enough to fill the fish, wet with fresh or 
canned tomato juice. Season with salt, pepper, tablespoon butter, 
onions if liked; mix well and when the fish is filled sew up; cook 
slowly for two hours with small quantity of water; dredge with 
flour before putting in oven; baste with batter. 

Gilmore City, Iowa Mrs. Claka Pjotekson 

BAKED PICKEREL 

Stuff with turkc}' dressing-, tie, and cover with pieces of fat 
pork; dredge with flour; fill pan nearly full of water. Bake one and 
one-half hours. Baste often with grav}-. 

Mrs. C. L. Brock 

COOKED MACKEREL 

Soak until fresh enoug-h, then boil ten minutes; cover with 
cream and butter, sprinkle with pepper. 

Mrs. C. L. Brock 



44 BEST RECEIPTS 



OYSTER STEW 

Take one-half milk and one-half water, let come to a boil, add 
oysters, liquid and all, season to taste with salt and pepper. Let 
it boil up but once; then serve hot. 

Mrs. Frank Myers 

OYSTER STEW 

Take one-half milk and one-half water, (if you wish a richer 
stew, use all milk) add to this the liquid strained from oysters; place 
on stove and let boil up, then add oysters, and butter size of an eg-g-; 
when it boils up again season to taste with salt and pepper and serve 
at once. If you vise all milk do not use as much butter. 

H. A. Carson 

CODFISH BALLS 

One-half pound codfish, soak over night. Two large potatoes, 
peeled, cooked and mashed with one tablespoon butter. Should you 
have mashed potatoes left from dinner, they will do. Drr.vin water 
off from fisn, pick it now as fine as you can, add the mashed pota- 
toes and one well beaten egg. Roll into balls, roll in bread or 
cracker crumbs, fry in hot lard the same as doughnuts. 

Mrs. Louisic Zicllar 

BAKED FISH 

Take a two and a half or three pound fish, scrape and wash 
well; rub inside and out with pej^per and salt; fill full with dressing 
made according- to dressing- receipt given. Wrap twine about the 
fish and tie securely; put in a baking dish, put bits of butter all 
(Over the fish, set in a hot oven, bake from thirty to forty-five min- 
vites. When done and read}^ to serve remove to hot platter. Cut 
off string, serve, cutting rig-ht through the fish and dressing. As 
the fish holds ver}' little dressing- a g-ood wav is to put some in the 
pan besides what is in the fish. Lemon cut in quarters is nice for 
a garnish and to serve with the fish. 

Mrs. R. W. Abok., 



BKST RKCEIPTS 



DEVILED OYSTERS 

Wipe the oysters dry and lay in a flat dish, cover with a mix- 
ture of melted butter, cayenne pepper, or pepper sauce and lemon 
juice, enoug-h of this mixture to cover the bottom of the dish well, 
let the ON^sters lie in this ten minutes, turning- often. Take out; 
roll in cracker crumbs then in beaten egg, then in crumbs and fry 
in hot lard and butter, half and half. 

Mrs. D. H. Moore 

SALMON ROLL 

One can salmon, one cup rolled crackers; one cup sweet milk, 
yolks of four egg's, juice of one lemon; mix thoroughly. Steam one 
hour in two baking powder cans. 

Mrs. D. E. Dean 

FANCY SALMON 

Pick the bones from salmon, roll in shredded wheat biscuit 
crumbs, mold into form of a fish, using macaroni for tail. Place 
this in Trire vegetable basket, dip in hot lard, fry two minutes. 
Nice for lunch or picnic. 

Ottumwa, Iowa Mabel Parker 

LITTLE PIGS IN BLANKETS 

Season large oysters with pepper and salt, cut fat English bacon 
in very thin slices, wrap an oyster in each slice and fasten with 
little wooden skewers; heat a frying pan and put in the "little pigs," 
cook just enough to make crisp, about two minutes; place on slices 
of toast that have been cut in small pieces and serve immediately. 
The pan must be very hot before the "pigs" are put in and then 
great care taken that they do not burn. This is a very nice relish, 
for lunch or tea, and garnished with parsley is a pretty one. 

Mrs. Ober 

BAKED FISH 

Spread butter over a baking tin, sprinkle over it one onion, cut 
fine; lay on this a thin slice of halibut or an}^ small whole fish, split 



4() BEST KKCEIPTS 



doAvn the middle, add one tablespoon of vinegar and spread thickly 
with butter; bake from one-half to one hour according" to the thick- 
ness of the fish. Remove to platter; 'add one large spoon flour to 
the butter left in the pan, and when well mixed, add one-half pint 
hot water, let boil, stirring all the time, then add three minced 
mushrooms or pickles; pour this over fish, which has teen kept hot 
in the oven; g-arnish with lemon points or parsley. Serve. 

Mrs. F. J. Clay 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS 

One quart oysters, one-half cup sweet cream, one tablespoon 
melted butter, two cups broken crackers, one well beaten eg"g, one 
level teaspoon of salt; put all into a two-quart granite basin and stir. 
Should this not be well moistened add one cup of milk. Bake for 
twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

Mks. C. Stinson 

CREAM SALAION 

One can salmon, minced fine; drain off liquor, throw away. 
Dressing: Boil one pint milk, two tablespoons butter, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, one-quarter teaspoon pepper, one pint bread crumbs; 
place a layer of buttered crumbs in a buttered dish, then a layer of 
salmon, then dressing, then crumbs and so on until all is used; put 
into a hot oven and bake twenty minutes. 

Mrs. W. I. Simpson 

FRIED FISH 

Take a nicely dressed fish, cut into pieces about three inches 
square, salt and let stand one or two hours, dip in beaten egg, roll 
in cracker crumbs; fry in hot lard over a slow fire about twenty 
minuter or half an hour. 

Mrs. p. W. Hall 

CORN OYSTERS 

Take twelve ears of corn and cut down through each row of 
grains lengthwise, then scrape down with the back of the knife, 
add three well beaten eggs, three tablespoons of flour and a large 
pinch of salt. Mix thoroughly and drop with large spoon into hot 



BKST RECEIPT vS 47 



fat an inch deep. When brown on one side, turn, and when brown 
on both sides they are done. In winter one can of corn, and add 
one level teaspoon of baking- powder. 

Mrs. Ober 

STUFFED BLUEFISH 

Bluefish should be well chosen. After properly cleaning- soak 
in strong- salt water an hour before cooking. Do not remove the 
head, when preparing- for the oven dry upon a napkin; have enough 
bread crumbs, softened with heated butter, to fill the fish, season 
to taste; fill the fish and sew up; put skewers through the gills; 
place in dripping pan with piece of butter or suet. Bake in hot 
oven three-quarters of an hour. Upon being- served pour over 
browned butter, otherwise it is apt to be somewhat dry. 

New York City Mrs. Albert Damon 

OYSTER FRY 

Take two dozen fine, large oysters and drain free from juice; 
beat whole of six eggs; roll oysters well in cracker meal; put one 
part butter and three parts lard in heated pan; dip oysters in beaten 
egg', place in pan, season with salt and pepper and fry slowly until 
lig-htly browned on both sides. Serve, with little piece of butter, 
size of a pea, on each oyster, and garnish with thin slices of lemon 
and parsley. White bread, cut into small squares of about an inch, 
either fresh or toasted, is nice to serve wnth the oysters. Tomato 
catsup is considered a necessary requisite on the table when fried 
oysters are being served. 

H. A. Carson 



48 BEST RECKIPTS 



Meats 



'"^'"'^"3/'^ 



In choosing- meat great care should be exercised. If your 
butcher is honest you can depend mainly on hini to tell you the best 
meats for different dishes; but it is well to know something- about 
choosing- meats yourself. 

Beef. A rib or sirloin j: iece is best for roasting-; luivc the 
butcher remove the ribs and roll and skewer the meat tor you. 
Always wipe the meat clean with a wet cloth, have a g-ood hot 
oven and a clear fire; do not salt the roast until it is half done. If 
you have not a reg-ular meat roaster, you can roast the meat in a 
deep baking- tin, basting- with the dripping-, or better yet turning- 
the meat over in the pan every twenty minutes; some dredg-e a 
roast with flour, if you like the flavor of onion, add a small one to 
the meat. Do not roast the meat too long- or it will be dry and 
tasteless. Some add w'ater to the roast, should you do so it must 
be boiling hot and only a very little. For a mutton roast, a leg- or 
saddle is the best. For pork, ribs. For chicken, a fat one about a 
vear old. Ducks, g-eese and turkeys, six or nine months old. Meats 
for boiling- must be put into boiling- hot water. 

Mrs N. Nklson 

STEAK 

Steak that is toug-h can be cooked in the following- manner. 
Remove the bones and g-ristle. save these for soups, put the bits of 
suet in skillet, let them g'et hot, roll steak in wheat or cream of 
wheat, cover, fry on each side about ten minutes, season, turn over 
meat one-half cup sweet milk, let l)oil up once. Serve 

Mks. N. Nelson 



BEST KlXf'.IPTS 48 



SAUSAGE 

One pound of sausag^e or Hamburg-, two eg-g-s, roll three crack- 
ers, piece of butter the size of an egfg*; mix well tog-ether and fry in 
butter, salt and pepper to suit the taste. 

Mrs. Byron Donovan 

VEAL LOAF 

Chop line three pounds leg- or loin of veal and three-fourths 
pounds salt pork; roll one dozen small crackers, put half of them 
in the veal with two eg-g-s, season with peppc* and a little salt if 
needed; mix all tog-ether, and make them into a solid form, then 
take the crackers that are left and spread smoothly over the out- 
side; bake one hour and eat cold. 

Mrs. H. C. Hollenbeck 

BAKED PORK CHOP 

Take four chops about one-half inch thick, place in a well but- 
tered frying pan, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Take dry bread 
crumbs and make a dressing- as follows: Two eg-g's well beaten 
with three tablespoons milk, a little sag-e, salt and pepper. Spread 
this on each chop and bake until a rich brown and serve with brown 
gravy. 

Mrs. Edith Scott 

CHICKEN PIE 

Cook the chicken until w^ell done; season well with salt and 
pepper; mix two tablespoons of flour wath one-third cup of water, 
pour over the chicken and boil a few minutes. Make crust the 
same as for biscuits. 

Mrs. Byron Donovan 

TURKEY DRESSING 

One loaf of bread, with crusts removed, crumbed fine; one 
medium sized onion grated, raw, one teaspoon sag-e, one teaspoon 
summer savory, salt and pepper to taste; one pint oysters and the 



49 BEST RECEIPTS 



liquor, butter the size of a small eg'g', one-teaspoon sug^ar, small 
teaspoon baking- powder and cream enoug-h to moisten the bread. 

Mrs. O. H. Stickney 

ONE WAY TO ROAST TURKEY 

Wash the turke}^ well inside and out and wipe dry with a clean 
cloth; rub with salt and pepper and till with any g-ood turkey dress- 
ing-; sew up the opening-s so as to retain the flavor of the dressing- 
and turkey; then take a larg-e cloth and wrap the fowl closely, sew- 
ing- it tirmly together; the cloth should be g-reased with butter be- 
fore covering the fowl, place in a roasting pan with enoug-h water 
to keep from burning and roast in a medium oven from two and a 
half to three hours, according- to the size of the turkey. Some pre- 
fer covering the fowl with slices of bacon instead of the cloth. 



BEST RECEIPTS 49 



MINCED HAM WITH SCRAMBLED EGGS 

Chop finely bits of cold ham, break six eg"g"s into a sauce pan 
containing- one tablespoon of butter, stir hastil}^ and as s«on as they 
are cooked, stir in the ham, season with salt and pepper, stir to- 
g-ether, turn into a hot dish g-arnished with parsley. 

G ERTKUDE RiDD ELL 

FRIED BEEFSTEAK 

Let the frying- pan g-et very hot, trim the steak and remove all 
g-ristle, hack or pound the meat well, then place in hot frying-pan, 
let remain a few minutes, turn over, do this once or twice, salt and 
pepper; when the meat is done, lay it on the plate, then put butter 
in the frying- pan and cook, when brown pour over the steak. A 
little water or milk put in pan and thickened with flour makesag-ood 
brown g-ravy. 

BROWN STEAK 

Have the butcher cut the steak thick, then after washing- it, 
put in skillet without drying-, salt and pepper; add a larg-e lump 
of butter, cover and let stew in the water and butter for one hour; 
by this time water should all be boiled away; if it should evaporate 
before three-quarters of an hour, add a little more, fifteen minutes 
before serving-, remove the cover and let fry to a lig-ht brown. 
This is a g-ood way to cook toug-h steak. 

HAMBURG STEAK 

Salt, pepper, and flavor with onions, if desired, roll in flour, 
make into balls and fry in hot lard. 

TO ROAST BEEF 

Four pounds of meat; after washing- put in roasting- pan or use 
as pot roast, fill pan half full of water, two kernels of g-arlic, two 
larg-e onions, four bay leaves, three cloves, six allspice, some pep- 
per, also add some ground pepper, sprinkle flour on top, salt to 
taste, sprinkle witth butter. If too fat remove fat. For pork roast 
cook the same except leave out spices and g-arlic. 

Mrs. Paul Fiebig 



50 BKST RECEIPTS 



SPICED BEEF ROLL 

Take a round of beefsteak; cut thin, sprinkle lightly with 
ground spices and roll tighth' into a roll, tie to hold in shape, lay in 
an earthen dish, in vinegar to cover it, all night; in the morning, 
cook in the vinegar it has lain in with one cup of water, one tea- 
spoon salt, cook slowly five hours; have one teaspoon of dry flour 
trowned in a pan, stir into this liquid and serve. Good to slice 
thin for picnics or tea. 

Mrs. Louise ZellxIr 

BREADED VEAL 

Cut veal into medium sized pieces, sprinkle slightly with salt; 
beat three eggs and add three tablespoons of milk to them, dip each 
slice of veal in the egg-, then in cracker crumbs; do this three times; 
then fry to a rich brown in plenty of butter. 

Mrs. R. p. Scott 

MEAT WITH SOUR GRAVY 

To one tablespoon of butter heated, add one tablespoon of flour, 
let it brown, then add water enough to make the required amount 
of gravy; season with salt, pepper, two tablespoons of vinegar and 
one teaspoon of sugar, stir thoroughly and pour over, left-over 
meats that have been chopped fine. 

Mrs. C. W. Knauer 



BEST RECEIPTS 51 



Salads 



-=y«^^g='^3^?N:;>. 



FAVORITE SALAD 

The chief thing- necessary for a good salad seems to me to be a 
good dressing. For a rich salad a mayonnaise, for a sour salad a 
French dressing, can scarcely be improved upon. 

One of our favorite salads is the following: One and one-half 
cups of mayonnaise dressing, two small cucumbers, crisp and cold, 
and cut into small squares, two ripe, but solid, tomatoes, each cut 
into about six pieces, a half cupful of Eng-lish walnut k-ernels, 
and the white leaves of two ordinary sized heads of g-ood lettuce. 
Mix alltogether^in a salad bowl and add the mayonnaise just be- 
fore serving. 

Rachel Fostkr Averv 

FOR A LESS EXPENSIVE SALAD 

Three solid, tart a[ pies, pared and cut 'into small squares, — -a. 
pint of macaroni (or it looks better to use spaghetti which is realh* 
the same thing in another form) cooked well and thoroughly cooled 
and cut into inch long pieces, about twc-thirds of a cupful of 
mayonnaise dressing. 

Rachel Foster Avery 

FRUIT SALAD 

Six oranges peeled and quartered, six bananas peeled and 
sliced, one pound Eng-lish walnuts, one can sliced pineapple, one 
box of jellyo, strawberry flavor, shell the walnuts, and cut ^11 
these fruits and nuts into small bits, with sharp scissors; in a deep 



52 BEST RECEIPTS 



dish put a layer of nuts, then orang-es, then bananas, then pine- 
apple, then the nuts and so on till all are used. Dissolve the jellyo 
in one pint of hot water, add one cup of sug-ar, — stir until all the 
sugar is dissolved and pour over the salad; set on ice until the sal- 
ad is solid, at least six hours or until the next day. When ready 
to serve, turn out on a pretty flat dish large enough to hold it nice- 
ly, and trim around the edge with pretty leaves, or flowers, nastur- 
tiums are nice leaves and flowers. 

jNIks. Walter Barragkr 

FRUIT SALAD 

Pour one pint of boiling water on one half box of Knox's gela- 
tine, add the juice of one lemon, and two cups of sugar; stir until 
dissolved, then strain through a cloth, let cool. When it begins to 
thicken, stir in a :an of sliced pineapple, three oranges, one dozen 
figs and one teacup of nut meats. 

Mrs. Nellie Gibson 

FKriT SALAD 

Take oranges, bananas, peaches, plums, berries, or any other 
kind of fruit, cut in dice and mix. Put over all a good salad dress- 
ing, to W'hich has been added a good amount of cream, well 
whipped. A nice way to use bits of left over fruit. Nut meats 
may be used if desired. 

Mrs. Ober 

NUT SALAD 

To one cup of chopped nut meats, add one cup of chopped ap- 
ple and a good salad dressing, or nuts may be used alone. Serve 
with sliced bananas. 

Mrs. Ober 

CABBAGE SALAD 

Chop cabbage very fine, add one teaspoon salt, one half tea- 
spoon pepper, two tablespoons sugar, mix all together. Put three- 
fourths cup good cider vinegar, one fourth cup cold water in a 



BEST RECEIPTS 53 



shallow g-i-anite basin, add one larg-e tablespoon of butter, when it 
is melted pour in the vineg"ar and water. Beat the yolks of two 
eg-g-s to a cream, add one larg-e teaspooji of prepared mustard, then 
stir into the vinegar when it is hot. Keep stirring- with a silver 
fork until it is smooth and creamy. Remove from fire, when cold 
pour over cabbage, adding two tablespoons of sweet cream, mixing- 
all tog-ether. Place in a dish, garnish with hard boiled eggs sliced 
over the top. One pound almonds blanched and chopped added to 
the above are very nice. 

Mrs. C. L. Dixon 

CHICKEN SALAD 

One large chicken boiled tender and chopped, twelve eg-gs 
boiled hard, one cup salad oil or melted butter, six stuffed pickled 
peppers chopped, or one head cabbage and one pint sour cucumber 
pickles chopped fine, three cups chopped celery, one teaspoon 
ground pepper, two tablespoons ground mustard, one cup good 
vinegar. This makes one gallon. 

Mrs. C. L. Dixon 

LETTUCE SALAD WITH LEMON 

Choose nice, tender lettuce, pile lightly in a dish and pour over 
it a dressing made from lemon juice and sugar, one tablespoon of 
sugar to the juice of one lemon; over the top place hard boiled eg-gs 
sliced. This sounds very simple but it is delicious. 

Dora Aborn 

BANANA SALAD 

Slice three or four bananas crosswise, and add a few slices of 
apples (the apples must be very thin, serve in lettuce leaves with 
cream dressing-. Made as follows: Beat the yolk of one eg-g, with 
one teaspoon of made mustard, one tablespoon sugar, five table- 
spoons of vinegar, salt to taste; cook in double boiler until about as 
thick as cream; when cool add one half cup of sweet cream well 
"beaten, and the white of one eg-g, beaten to a stiff froth. 

Mrs. W. D. Boies 



54 BEST RECEIPTS 



CHICKEN AND CABBAGE SALAD 

Boil sr ill tender, season while boiling, chop fine; 

also chop fine one small head of cabbag-e, and two bunches of cel- 
ery. Dressing-: Three eg-g-s, two teaspoons of sug-ar. up of 

vinegar, one te^icui. oT sW'jL't cr,':ini. b',.tTAM- si;;-.' ci'r; ,. .. Put 
vinegar on tht nd eg-gs 
well beaten, n ,vcr the cab- 
bag-eand chic: rve, add cel- 
ery. K 

BEET SALAD 

Slice and cut into dice sufficient one pint. 
When ready 1 ■ , ith a 
half pint of maj wijij,L.-,L ui L.-.--i.i- w; , ^. Gar- 
nish v/ith curly parsley or any kind oj avea. 



-K Beach 



NUT SALAD 



Two cups of peanuts chopped fine, one cup of celer}', one dozen 
olives, pour over salad dressing-. Set in ice box until ready to 
serve. 

Mamie Button Frisbee 

POTATO SAT. An 

Boil ten gooa sizcu poi:uoes, cnop or siice une two onions; peel 
and slice potatoes while warm; one layer of potatoes, and then one 
of onions, sprinkle lighly with salt and pepper, covering- each lay- 
er with the following dressing- until the dish is full. Dressing-: 
Three eggs well beaten, one-half cup of vineg-ar, one-half cup of 
butter, two-thirds cups warm water, let scald, not boil, and use 
while warm, slice four hard boiled eggs on the top. This, can be 
made right after dinner and is. then ready for supper. Serve cold. 

Mrs. F. W. CRAii 

POTATO SALAD 

Six larg-e boiled potatoes, one or two sticks of celery, half an 
onion, a number of lettuce leaves, white of one egg; chop all ingred- 



BRST RKCFJPTS :^^> 



ients fine, mix and salt. Dressing: Mash the yolk of one hard 
boiled eg-g-to which has been added one teaspoon of sug-ar, one tea- 
spoon of mustard, one tablespoon of butter, three tablespoons oi 
vinegar; mix well and pour over the salad. Put on top, egg, celery, 
or plum tomatoes cut in two. 



Mws. Q. A. QiRSON 



OViSTBR SALAi' 



,vo cans cove oysters, drain 
Aiie, two cups celery chopped ;,, i^yolic- 

mashed witty vinegar); whites uressing. 

Dressing": Yolks of four eggs one teaspoon mustard, two teaspoons 
sugar, one half cup melted butter, one half cup sweet mrlk, one 
half cup vinegar, salt and a little cayenne pepper. Beat, eggs, add- 
ing butter drop by drop, add milk slowly, then spices in a little 
vinegar, beat and cook in a kettle of water until thick. 

Mrs. C. H. Ballard 

POTATO SALAD 

One half pound blanched almonds, one dozen medium sized po- 
tatoes, either celery or celery seed, a very small onion, chop all 
fine; sprinkle a half teaspoon of salt over potatoes, then use any 
good salad dressing, 

Mrs. p. W. Hall 

SALMON SALAD 

Equal parts of salmon, cabbage and celery, eight hard boiled 
eggs chopped very fine, add pepper and salt to taste, chop fish, 
cabbage and celery second, then mix with the eggs and seasoning. 
Dressing: One cup weak vinegar, one half cup sugar, yolks of nine 
eggs beaten thoroughly, butter size of an egg, one half teaspoon 
salt, one teaspoon mustard; mix well together and set in a pan of 
hot water to cook until like very thick cream. Use enough of this 
dressing to moisten the salad; the balance of the dressing will keep 
a long time in a fruit jar in a cold place. 

Mrs, Lizzie Caple 



56 BEST RECEIPTS 



bp:ax salad 

Chop cold string- beans and young- onions, season and mix to- 
gether. Pour over them salad dressing-. 

Mks. Fkank Webster 

WALDORF SALAD 

Take equal parts of celery and apples chopped not very fine, 
mix tog-ether, pour over them any g-ood salad dressing-. 

MIXED SALAD 

One small head of cabbag-e chopped fine, one dozen small sweet 
cucumber pickles chopped fine, also one-half pint olives cut from 
pit and chopped, one pound English walnuts left nearly whole, cel- 
ery to suit taste, if you can't get it use celery seed. Dressing: 
Yolks of three eggs, one cup of vinegar, two large tablespoons of 
sugar, two teaspoons mustard. Cook all together except the eggs, 
when cooked put in the well beaten eggs while boiling hot, let cook 
until it looks done. When cool and ready to use, add two coffee 
cups of whipped cream. 

Mrs. D. E. Dean 

SALMON SALAD 

One can of salmon cooked twenty minutes in boiling water; 
take out of the can and pour off oil; salt, pepper and cover with vin- 
egar and let stand twenty-four hours. Dressing: Yolks of two raw 
eggs, same of hard boiled, mashed fiine; add one tablespoon of 
mustard, three of melted butter, salt. 

Mrs. G. a. Gibson 

LOBSTER SALAD 

Mince the meat of a small can of lobster into crumbs. Chop a 
small head of cabbage fine and cut two bunches of celery into small 
pieces, but do not chop as they will turn dark colored. Salt and 
mix all together with dressing. D) essing: Yelks of four eggs, one 
cup of sweet cream, one small cup of vinegar, one cup of sugar, a 



BEST RECEIPTS 57 



small lump of butter, one teaspoon of mustard. Cook until thick, 
be careful not to burn, let it g-et cold before mixing with other in- 
gredients. 

Mrs. R. p. Scott 

MUSTARD SALAD FOR MEATS 

One small cup of vinegar not too strong, three tablespoons 
ground mustard, two tablespoons sugar, one tablespoon butter, 
yolks of four eggs well beaten; place vinegar with butter and sugar 
on the stove and when it comes to a boil moisten mustard with a 
little water, add the yolks of the eggs very slowly to the boiling 
vinegar, stirring all the time until it is creamy; remove from fire, 
let cool. Lovely for any kind of meat. 

Mrs. p. VV. Hall 

RELISH FOR ROAST DUCK OR GAME 

Slice six large oranges, grate the rind of one, add the juice of 
one lemon, three tablespoons salad oil or melted butter, one-quarter 
teaspoon cayenne pepper, mix all together, pour over the oranges 
and serve with the game or duck. 

Mrs. H. C. Elliott 

SALAD DRESSING 

Three tablespoons vinegar, yolks three eggs, one tablespoon 
each of mustard ard sugar, one-half teaspoon salt, pinch of pepper, 
pour boiling vinegar onto the well beaten yolks, add other ingredi- 
ents; cook until thick, add a chunk of butter the size of a walnut, 
thin with milk when ready to use. 

Mrs. W. Isenhart 

SALAD DRESSING 

The beaten yolks of eight eggs, one cup of sugar, one table- 
spoon of salt and black pepper, a little cayenne, one-half tablespoon 
of mustard, minced thoroughly with one scant cup of cream. 
Bring to a boil one and one-half pints vinegar, add one cup butter, 
and boil, then pour over the mixture, stir well, bring to a boil. 



5S BEST RECEIPTS 



strain; put in bottles and keep in cool place. When wanted to use 
take equal parts cream and this mayonnaise made dressing:. Will 
keep for months even in summer. 

FRENCH T'T'------^- 

French dressing is made at the great New York restaurant, 
Delmcmi.-ivs. after tht' foTIowino- -nronMi-iirM-i:^, TTnlf a teaspoou of 
salt. .esofp. black or white 

pepper then use three shakes, one tablespu^i-a of g"Ood vineg'ar, 
(Taragon vinegar pref.rr<-«Pi nnd three tablespoon >^ of nil v,> d'I- 
beat thoroughly witl: k just before using. 

This dressing is exccilcut for potato salad made with cold 
boiled potatoes and a little onion and served on lettui .* mi \'es; also 
for lettuce alone, for cucumbers and man}' other. If j'ou 

use it with cabbage be sure to change the proportions to two table- 
spoons of vinegar to three of oil as the cabbage is swi-i?! and de- 
mands more vinegar for that amount of oil. 
Rec. Sec. W. U. S. A. Rachel FosTiiK Avekv 

MAYONNAISE DRESvSING 

Yolks of two eggs, before beating put in a pinch of salt, pinch 
of mustard, and dash of red pepper, beat well, add one-quarter tea- 
cup of olive oil, and the same amount of vinegar, alternating drops, 
beat all the time to keep from curdling. Thin when using if nec- 
essary. 

Mrs. Mamie Frisbee 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Here is a salad dressing, made without oil that we often use: 
One teaspoon of sugar, one teaspoon of salt, one-half teaspoon of 
mustard, two eggs, four tablespoons vinegar, a small pinch of cay- 
enne pepper; beat the eggs, yolks and whites seperately, add the 
vinegar which has been heated, set the dish over hot water and 
stir the eggs and vinegar until well cooked, then add one good tea- 
spoon of butter, salt, pepper, mustard and sugar; before using add 
two large tablespoons of cream. This dressing will keep several 



BEST RECEIPTS 59 



lays and is nice for lobsters, chicken, or potato salad. It is also 
lice on lettuce and ripe tomatoes. For lettuce, cabbage or toma.- 
:oes use more sugar. 

Susan B. Anthony 

SALAD DRESSING 

Yolks of four eggs, ns ter spoon mustard, two teaspoons 

r, one-quarter cup . r, one-half cup sweet milk, one- 

' "ar, one-quarter teaspoon salt, dash cayenne pep- 

.. till creamy, add drop by drop melted butter. th:n. 

k, slowly beating all the time, then seasoning au' 

little vinegar, and then all the vinegar, adding 

^ I thj lime, set dish in a kettle of hot water and 

lil consi thick cream; keep in an air tight can iii a 

:ooi place; will keep Ijr weeks. Very nice for any kind of salad es- 

■lecLall \' for ovster salad. 

Mrs. Winona Tinsley 

SALAD DKBSSLX'G 
Put into a tea cup, one teaspoon mustard, one teaspoon salt, 
two teaspoons sugar; stir till smooth, then break one egg into this 
aid stir tllLsmooth, fill the cup to wnthin an inch of the top with 
either sour or sweet cream, or olive oil; 1 prefer thick, sour, creana,, 
Dut which ever is used it must be stirred in a little at a time and 
.hen the salad will be thick like whipped cream; when smooth stii 
vinegar in a little by little till cup is full. 

This salad dressing is good to use on meat, lettuce, cabbage or 
:iuy kind of salad, cover it and set in a cool place and it will keep some 
time; small dishes of vegetables such as peas, string beans and 
beets, either with or without potatoes make an excellent salad for 
-upper especially in summer. This dressing is good on chicken, 
turkey or any kind of chopped meat for salads. 

To make a variety in flavoring salads, use onions with potatoes; 
:elery flavors meats and fowl salads well. Celery salt may be used 
11 summer. Parsley is an improvement to any salad. 

The secret of good salads is to have them well seasoned. Be 
careful not to put too much mustard in the dressing and then use 
plenty of the dressing; some materials require more salt, or a little 
pepper may be needed sometimes. Always taste your salad and 
keep seasoning until good. 

Sarah W. Whitney 



w 



BEST RECEIPTS 




-Deep 1': 

Kettle 




Seamless Straight 
Covei-ed Bucket 




Seamkss Covered 
Convex Sauce Pan 




Seamless 
"Water Bucket 




> 



Deep Pudding 
Pan 




Covered Seamless 
Convex Sauce Pan 




Pie Plate 



EsK Pan 



Mixiny Pan 



Extra Deep 
Pie Plate 



Manufactured by J. VOLLRATH CO., 
Sheboygan, Wisconsin 



Sold by E. P. MESSER & SON, Sheldon, Iowa 



BEST RECEIPTS tl 



Cake Making 



Clear the table of superfluous articles. If possible have your 
table covered with white oil cloth. Don a larg-e clean apron and 
you are ready for cake making-. Presuming- that your tins were 
well washed and dried when last in use; they are now ready for 
greasing-; this should be done with clean lard as butter burns more 
easily, sift in flour then shake out ag-ain, this will show if any part 
is not g-reased and cake can be removed with less difficulty. Bring 
all materials to be used to the table, also dishes. The utensils 
needed are an earthen dish for stirring- doug-h, a g-ranite spoon for 
mixing, an eg-g- beater, a larg-e plate for beating- whites, cups for 
measuring-, a square board covered with brown paper to turn cakes 
upon when baked. Provide yourself with a clean towel dampened 
at one end for wiping- yourfing-ers upon when soiled. Always use 
the same sized cups and spoons for measuring-. Use g-ranulated. 
sug-ar unless otherwise desig-nated in receipt, the best kind is the 
fine, not too blue. The best flour is that which has been ground 
not less than three weeks. If g-asoline or g-as stove is to be used, 
let oven heat twenty minutes before needed. If the stove is that 
for coal or wood g-et this ready before beg-inning- cake making- and 
have plenty of fuel on hand; have a nice clear fire so that your oven 
may be rig-ht when you are ready to use it. Better oven wait for 
cake than cake for oven. 

Always sift your flour before measuring- into a basin, then fill 
tk^ measuring- cup by dipping- the flour into it with a spoon. Use 
the best of materials, be sure the eg-g-s are perfectly freak. Eg-gs 
in warm weather should be kept in a cool, dry place. Just before 
beating the whites sprinkle over them a very small pinch of salt, 
and beat at once. This helps to make them beat quicker, also the 
cooler 3'ou can have them. If you set them on ice for a time before 
beating it will be better. 



62 BEST KECEIPTS 



Always put the baking- powder into the flour before sifting- un- 
less otherwise directed, dissolve soda with a little cold water before 
putting into the milk. When shortening- is called for, it means 
either lard or butter or both mixed, or cottolene. For softening- 
butter so it will cream or mix better g-et the quantity of butter 
needed before commencing- your cake and let it stand in the warm 
room; by the time you are read}- for it, it will be soft enough. To 
cream butter and sugar means to rub them tog-ether and then beat 
•with a spoon until they are like thick cream. 

Cake can be tested when baking b}" putting- a tooth pick into 
the cake. If when it is withdrawn no batter adheres, the cake is 
done. 

When making- layer cake turn the tin upside do\A'n and pile the 
layers on each bottom side up; let the layers cool before putting on 
the filling unless otherwise directed in the receipt. When corn 
starch is used sift it in with the flour. 

Mrs. Frkd Frisbee, Sr. 



LAYER CAKES 



CHOCOLATE 

Yolk of one egg- well beaten, add one cup cold water, one- 
quarter cake chocolate, (Brewster's best,) boil and keep hot; stir 
to. I cream one heaping- tablespoon butter, one scant cup sug-ar, add 
u ir^ cup boiling water in which is one teaspoon soda; add the part 
kept hot, flavored with one-half teaspoon vanilla, stir all tog-ether, 
add one and one-half cups sifted flour; bake in two layers, and put 
between layers and on top, icing made with one cup sugar, white 
of an e.Qg beaten stiff; the sugar dissolved whit one-half cup water 
and boil until it threads, then add the with of Qgg. 

Miss M. E. Bray 

BLACK CHOCOLATE 

One-half cup milk, one-half cup sug-ar, yolk of an &gg, one-half 
cup Baker's chocolate, shave chocolate fine; add together the sugar 
and milk, then the yolks well beaten; boil until it thicken; set aside 



BEST RECEIPTS 63 



to cool while mixing- the following-: One cup sugar, one-half cup 
butter beaten to a cream, two egg's, separate white and 3''olk and 
beat each part well; one-half cup sour milk with one teaspsoon 
soda dissolved in it, two cups flour, and lastl}' the chocolate pre- 
pared; bake in four layers and put together with boiled icing*. 

Mks. J. R. Mitchell 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

One cup butter, one cup milk, two cups sugar, three cups flour, 
four whites of eggs, two teaspoons baking- powder. For frosting 
use Mrs. McCormack's frosting-. 

Mrs. B. F. McCormack 

EASY MADE CHOCOLATE CAKE 

Two cups of sugar, yolks of three eggs, one-half cup of butter, 
one and one-half cups of milk, three cups of flour; melt three small 
squares of Baker's chocolate, to which has been added one table- 
spoon of sugar, and three of milk; stir this into the cake, bake. 
This is as good as Devil's food. 

■ Mrs. C. W. Toothaker 

VARIETY CAKE 

Two-thirds cup of butter and one cup of sugar creamed to- 
gether, one-half cup milk,- yolks of five egg well beaten, one tea- 
spoon baking powder, two cups flour sifted together; divide and 
flavor one-half with orange, add to the other half enough chocolate 
to coloi-; flavor with vanilla, bake in two layers. Also make batter 
for white and pink parts as follows: One-half cup each of butter 
and sugar creamed, one-half cup sweet milk, whites of five eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, one teaspoon baking powder and two cups 
flour sifted together; divide, flavor one-half with rose, the other 
half with lemon, color rose with red coloring; bake each part in two 
lavers. when all are baked, place first a brown layer, then white, 
red and lastly yellow, with jell or icing between, ice the top. 

Mrs. W. S. Lamb 

DEVIL'S FOOD 

Yolks two eggs well beaten, pour over these one cup cold 
water, add one-half cake Baker's chocolate grated, cook until quite 



64 BEST RECEIPTS 



thick or the consistency of gravy; while hot add two tablcspocMi 
butter, and two cups sug-ar, not creamed, one teaspoon soda dis 
solved m one cup hot water, let cool; add three cups flour and twi 
two teaspoons baking- powder, sifted tog-ether. Filling- for same 
One-half cup cold water, one-half cup sugar, one teaspoon corn 
starch, dissolved in a little water, one teaspoon g-rated chocolate 
one teaspoon vanilla, cooked to the consistency of thick g-ravy 
bake cake in three layers; spread filling- on when cake is cool. 

Mks. Amcio Bkock 

DEVILS CAKE 

One cup dark brown sugar, two e^g-s, one cup sweet milk, twi 
cups flour, one-half cup butter, one teaspoon soda dissolved in ; 
little hot water. Dark part: One scant cup g-rated chocolate, one 
half cup sweet milk, two-thirds cup brown sugar, yolk one eg-g 
mix well and cook, when cold stir into batter; bake in thre< 
layers and put together with white icing-. 

Mks. Van Patten 

WHITE LAYER CAKE 

One cup butter, tv/o cups sug-ar, whites of eig-ht eg-gs, two cup: 
flour, one cup sweet milk, two l.arg-e teaspoons baking- pow^der 
Filling-: Whites of two eg-g-s, beat stiff, one-half cup sugar, two 
thirds cup raisins and one-half cup walnuts chopped fine; beat wel 
and spread between cakes. 

Amy Cakson 

WHITE CAKE 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter beaten to a cream, one 
half cup sweet milk, two and one-half cups flour, two and one-hal 
teaspoons baking powder, whites of eight eggs; bake m jelly tins 
Icing-: Boil a half teacup of water and three teacups of sugar til 
thick; pour slowly over well beaten whites of three eg-g-s; beat til 
cool; sprinkle grated cocoanut between layers. 

Mrs. Geo. Portekfikld 



BKST RECEIPTS 6S 



PINEAPPLE CAKE 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, creamed; one cup sweet milk, 
whites of six eg'g's beaten stiif, three cups flour and two heaping- 
teaspoons baking powder sifted together; beat all thoroughly to- 
gether and bake in three layers. Filling: One small can pine- 
apple, (the grated kind, ) one-half cup sugar; put on stove, when it 
comes to a boil, thicken with a little corn starch wet with water;, 
spread between layers and .jU top or leave top plain and frost. 

Mrs. C. J. Ingram 

PRESSED CAKE 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup sweet milk, 
three eggs, two teaspoons baking powder, two cups flour; cream 
the butter and sugar, add milk, then eggs well beaten, then flour 
with baking powder sifted in; take one-third this mixture add to it 
one cup of seeded raisens or mixed fruit, one teaspoon each of 
ground cloves and cinnamon or the essence; make two layers of 
the plain batter and one of the brown; put together with icing or 
can use jell if preferred, with the brown layer in the center. 

Mrs. F. Frisbike 

CRACKER CAKES 

One pound English walnuts chopped fine, onci cup pulverized 
sugar, eight eggs, white and yolks beaten sep irately, three-quarters 
cup of sifted cracker dust, one teaspoon baking powder; bake in 
three layers. Filling for same: One pint milk, one-half cup 
sugar, butter size of walnut, heaping tablespoon corn starch, three 
L'ggs well beaten, flavored with vanilla; let milk and sugar get hot, 
then stir in other ingredients; cook until the consistency of cream}^ 
custard; spread between la3'ers when cold. 

Mrs. J. R. Elliott 

HICKORY .\UT CUSTARD CAKE 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, creamed together; one- 
half cup sweet milk, whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth, added 
last of all two cups flour with two teaspoons baking powder sifted 



66 BKST RKCEIPTS 



three times; bake in two layers. Custard: One eg-g- beaten, one- 
half cup sug-ar added, and beat ag-ain, one-half cup milk, one table- 
spoon corn starch, dissolved in the milk, one cup chopped walnut 
meats, one teaspoon vanilla; after cooking put custard in a double 
boiler and cook until it thickens; spread between layers, add one- 
half cup chopped nut meats to boiled icing-, flavor with one-half tea- 
spoon lemon and spread on top of cake; custard can be cooked in a 
pan of hot water should you have no double boiler. 

Mrs. LizzirCaple 

CARAMEL CAKE 

One and three-quarters cups of dark brown sug-ar, one- 
fourth cup of butter, one-half cup sweet milk, two cups li i:r, two 
teaspoons of baking- powder, two eg-gs, half cake Baker's chocolate 
dissolved in a half cup of boiling water, flavor to taste; bake in 
layers and make a white frosting-. Fully as nice as Devil's fijod. 

Mrs. Ada Farwpll 

SPICED GOOSEBERRY CAKE 

One cup of sug-ar, three eg-g-s, — save white of one for frosting, 
— two-thirds cup of butter or lard, two-thirds cup of sour milk 
with one teaspoon of soda dissolved in milk, one cup of spiced goose- 
berries or jam. (In using jam use spices, one-half teaspoon each of 
cinnamon, cloves allspices.) Bake in layers. Fill with boiled 
frosting-. 

Mrs. Collins 

FIG CAKE 

Light part: Two cups white sug-ar, two-thirds cup of butter, 
not quite two-thirds cup sweet milk, whites of eig-ht eggs, three 
teaspoons 3^east powder thoroughly sifted with three cups flour; 
stir sug-ar and butter to a cream, add milk and flour; whites of eg-g-s 
last beaten stiff. 

Gold part: One cup sug-ar, three-fourths cup butter, one-half 
cup sweet milk, one and one-half teaspoon yeast powder sifted in a 
little more than one and a half cups flour, yolks of seven eggs 
thoroughly beaten and one whole eg-g-, one teaspoon allspice and 



BEST RECEIPTS 67 



cinnamon until you can taste; bake the lig-ht part in twolarg-e rather 
deep pans, put half the g-old in another long pan, lay on one pound 
fig-s cut in halves, (previously sifted over with flour,) so that they 
will touch each other, put rest of gold on tlaem and bake; when done 
put. together with frosting, the gold between the two whites 
and cover with frosting. 

Mrs. W. L. Boise 

MAHOGANY CAKE 

Two-thirds cup lard, teaspoon of salt, two cups of sugar, one- 
half cake of Baker's chocolate, one cup of sweet milk, two teaspoons 
of baking powder, three cups of flour, flavor with lemon and vanilla, 
yolks of eight eggs; mix the lard and salt thoroughly, then add 
the sugar, and beat twenty minutes; add the yolks of eggs 
after beating them well. Grate chocolate in milk and cook till thick; 
stirring constantly to keep from burning; set aside to cool before 
adding it to other ingredients. After adding chocolate stir in flour 
with the baking powder having been previously mixed with flour, 
flavor; beat this thoroughly after which add one and one-half tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in one-third cup boiling water; stir through 
lightly and put in oven to bake. 

dttumwa, Iowa Mable Parker 

COCOANUT CAKE 

Whites of ten eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one tumbler full of 
sugar and one of flour, one and one-half teaspoons of baking pow- 
der, add flour to sugar, then sift them four times; lastly add this a 
little at a time to the eggs, stir thoroughly; bake in two layers. 
Fill with boiled frosting, sprinkle cocoanut over, also finish the top 
the same. 

Mrs. p. a. Edington 

RAISED BREAD CAKE 

One cup of butter, two cups white sugar creamed together, 
add three eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately; one teaspoon 
soda dissolved in boiling water, two cups of light bread sponge, 
about one and one-half cups of flour; (if bread sponge is thick this 



68 BEST RECEIPTS 



is plenty of flour, if sponge is not thick this is not enoug-h flour;) 
one heaping- teaspoon g-round cinnamon, one heaping- teaspoon 
g-round cloves, one cup seeded raisins, "(well floured,) one cup 
Eng-lish currants, put in^pan and allow to stand in a warm place 
about three hours; bake in a slow oven. Excellent. 

Mrs. Cakey Pynchon 

PORK CAKE 

One pound fat salt pork chopped fine dissolved in one pint of 
boiling- water, three cups brown sug-ar, one cup molasses, one 
pound raisins or more if liked, one pound currants or more if liked, 
one-half citron, two tablespoons cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, 
one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream of tarter, two nutmeg-s, 
seven cups flour. 

Amy Carson 

ONE EGG CAKE. 

One cup sug-ar creamed with nearly one-half cup butter, one- 
well beaten eg-g-, one cup sweet milk, two cups of flour with two 
heaping- teaspoons of baking- powder sifted in, one teaspoon of van- 
illa or any preferred flavor. This recipe can be used either as 
loaf or layer cake. Add spices for spice cake. Fruit for white 
fruit cake. Make a marble cake by adding- spices and g-rated choc- 
olate to one half of it. Good cookies b}^ adding- more flour. 

Mrs. Judge Ladd. 

BLACKBERRY CAKE. 

Three eg-g-s, one cup sug-ar, three-fourths cup butter, one and 
one half cups flour, one cup blackberry jam, or fresh berries with 
sug-ar on and mashed. Three tablespoons of sour cream, one level 
teaspoon of soda, one scant teaspoon each of allspice and cinnamon,, 
a little grated nutmeg, the yolks and whites of the eggs separated 
and the yolks beaten well; next the butter and sugar creamed, add 
cream with soda dissolved in it, the berries and spice, the flour and 
lastly the whites, beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in a loaf or in layers 
putting- icing flavored with lemon or vanilla between the layers. 

Mrs. J. E. VanPatten, 



BKST RECEIPTS bO 



LEMON CAKE. 

Whites of six eg-g\s beaten to a stiff froth, one cup sug-ar, one 
half cup cold water boiled until it hairs, pour in slowly to whites, 
beat until almost cold; beat yolks of six eg-g-s to a cream, and beat 
into whites; add to the rest g-rated rind and juice of one lemon, 
then one cup sifted flour. Bake slowly forty minutes. 

Mrs. J. R. Elliott. 



ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

One cup su^ar, one teaspoon baking- powder, one-fourth tea- 
spoon salt, all sifted tog-ether into the mixing- bowl; beat four eg-gs 
very lig-ht, until they stand up foamy, then stir into the sifted 
flour, beat well together. Have shallow, buttered tins ready; two 
medium sized tins are needed for this recipe: pour in the batter 
which should spread very thin; bake at once in a quick oven; as 
soon as the cake is done, turn out onto a cloth, spread with jell 
which you have previously beaten well, while the cake is hot, roll 
quickly and cover with a cloth. 

Mks. L. L. Bassett. 

SEVEN MINUTE SPONGE CAKE 

One coft'ee cup of sugar, one cofi'ee cup of flour, one teaspoon 
baking- powder: stir these tog-ether; make a place in the middle and 
break in four eg-g-s, add four tablespoons of cold water, and one 
teaspoon of extract. Mix and bake in a pan ten by eig-hteen inch- 
es. Do no beat the eg-gs at all; bake in an even oven. 

Rock Rapids, Iowa. Mrs. H. B, Pierce 

MOLASSES LAYER CAKE 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup molasses, scant half cup butter, 
one-half cup of sour milk, tvi'O cups of flour, one teaspoon of soda, 
one of cinnamon, three eggs; save whites of two for frosting; use 
raisins in frosting. 

Mrs. Baudlek 



70 BKST RECEIPTS 



vSOUK CREAM CAKE 

One cup of sug-ar, one of sour cream, quite thick, one scant 
tablespoon of butter, yolks of twoegg-s, one scant teaspoon of soda, 
one level teaspoon of baking- powder, a pinch of salt; beat eg^gs, su- 
g-ar and cream tog'ether with a wire egrg- beater; add soda and bak- 
ing- powder to two cups of flour; flavor to taste. Bake in three 
la\^ers and put tog'ether with boiled frosting. 

Mks. (). II. Stickney 

MARSHAIALLOW CAKE 

One and one-half cups sugar, half cup butter, half cup milk, 
two cups flour, half cup corn starch, w'hites of six eg-gs, teaspoon 
of baking powder. Bake in layers. Make boiled frosting- of the 
white of one eg-g-, break in pieces half a pound of marshmallows, 
and add to the frosting-. Ornament top of cake with marshmallows. 

Mks. O. H. Stickney 

GAELIC FRUIT CAKE 

Cream two teacups of sugar and one of butter, add gradually 
one teacup of sweet milk, then the beaten yolks of nine eg-g-s, four 
teaspoons of flour, sifted and mixed while dry with two teaspoons 
baking- powder. While beating- in the flour, add the whites of the 
eg-g-s beaten to a stilf froth. Flavor with one teaspoon of any pre- 
ferred flavor. In putting the cake in the pan, first place a thin lay- 
er of the cake, then a layer of these three kinds of fruit mixed; 
one pound of raisins seeded and chopped, half pound of currants, 
one-fourth pound of citron cut into thin shreds, then a layer of 
cake, then fruit and soon, finishing with a layer of ake; (of course 
the fruit must all have been washed and dried.) Bake in a moder- 
ate oven two hours. 

Mrs. D. H. Mooke 

FRUITCAKE 

Seven eg-g-s, — whites of two for frosting-, — one cup of butter, 

one cup of sour cream, one cup of sour milk, two cups of sugar, one 

of molasses, two teaspoons each of cloves and cinnamon, one nut- 



HIOST inOCIOIPTS 71 



meg-, one teaspoon of soda, three poiauls of seeded raisins, one half 
pound of seedless raisins or currants, one fourth pound of shred- 
ded citron; add flour until thick and hard to stir.This makes three 
cakes, good after ten days. 

Mrs. Katk PowiiKS 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE 

Whites of sixteen eggs beaten very stiff, one pound white su- 
gar, one pound flour, one pound butter, one teaspoon extract of 
bitter almonds, one pound blanched almonds, two ounces of bitter 
almonds, one pound citron cut fine, «me cocoanut grated; pound the 
almonds in a mortar with a little rose water to prevent oiling; beat 
the eggs well; cream the butter into which stir the flour until quite 
stiff, then add alternately eggs, sugar and flour, reserving a little 
for fruit, till all are well combined, flavor with vanilla oi extract of 
bitter almonds. Flour the fruit and put it in last, bake in a slow 
oven, using great caution not to burn, frost when cold. 

Mrs. H. T. Thompson 

FRUIT CAKE 

Four eg-gs well beaten, one cup brown sugar, one cup 'Orleans 
molasses, one cup butter t eaten to a cream; one cup sour milk, one 
teaspoon soda dissolved in the milk, four cups flour well sifted; af- 
ter this is well beaten tog-ether add one cup hickory nut meats, one 
cup stoned raisins, one cup dried currants well washed, one half 
cup shredded citron, one teaspoon each ground cinnamon and 
cloves. Makes one nice large loaf. Bake in a moderate oven one 
hour. Keep fruit cake always in a stone jar. Will keep indefinitely. 

Mrs Taylor Wood. 

MOLASSES CAKE 

One cup 'Orleans molasses, one cup sugar, two eggs well beat- 
en, one cnp buttermilk, one teaspoon soda dissolved in the milk, 
two-thirds cup shortening — either butter or lard — one teaspoon 
of allspice ground, or the essence; two thirds cup seeded or seed- 
less raisins; beat the eggs well, cream the sugar and shortning-. 
Add to the eggs, molasses, spice, buttermilk and lastly the flour, 



72 BEST RECEIPTS 



using- enoug-h sifted flour to make as stiff a doug-h as you can stir; 
add the raisins, stirring- well throug-h. Should you use lard add 
one half tea spoon salt. Bake in a shallow g-reased tin in a moder- 
ate oven from a half to three quarters of an hour. When done 
turn out on a smooth paper. 

Mrs. Dora Mayfield, 

COFFEE CAKE 

One cup sug-ar, one cup molasses, one cup shortening, one cup 
of coffee quite strong- — use coffee left from breakfast if you have 
it — three eg-g-s well beaten, one teaspocn each of cinnamon, cloves, 
allspice, lemon, vanilla and g-rated nutmeg-; one teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in a little water; flour enoug-h to make a stiff doug-h — as stiff 
as loaf cakes usually are. Bake slowly from fourty to fifty min- 
utes or longer. 

Mrs. Etta Chase, 

MRS. BROCK'S CAKES 

One and one half cups of sug-ar, one cup of butter, beat until it 
i:reams; three eg-g-s, volks and whites beaten separately, one tea- 
cup of buttermilk, teaspoon of soda; mix all together, add two cups 
of currants or raisins, season with untmeg-. Bake in moderate 
oven. Mrs. C. S. Brock, 

SPONGE CAKE 

Three egg-s, beat two minutes, add one and one half cups of 
white sug-ar and beat five minutes; one cup flour, beat two minutes, 
another cup of flour with one teaspoon cream of tarter stirred in 
one half cup cold water with one half teaspoon soda; little salt and 
flavor, beat well. Makes two loaves. 

Mrs. Kate Powers, 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE 

Whites of three eggs, one cup flour, one cup sugar, one tea 
spoon baking powder, one teaspoon butter, two tablespoons new 
milk, flavor with vanilla. Bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. Geo. Hoskins. 



BEST RECEIPTS 73 



WHITE CAKE 

One cup butter; two cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, whites 
of five eg-g-s, three cups of flour, two teaspoons baking- powder. 

Mrs. Isenhart. 

WHITE CAK E 

One cup sug-ar, one-half cup butter, one cup milk, whites of 
four eggs, two cups of flour, two teaspoons baking- powder. Flavor 
to taste. 

Mrs. L. H. Ten Eyck 

QUICK CHEAP CAKE 

One scant cup of sug-ar; break an egg in cup and fill up with 
sweet cream, one and one-half cup« of flour, one-eighth teaspoon of 
salt, one good teaspoon baking powder. This is good baked in lay- 
er* with whipped cream between, or it may be baked in a loaf. 

Mrs. H. T. Thompson 

DELICATE CAKE 

One cup corn starch, one cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup 
sweet milk, two cups flour, whites of seven eggs; rub butter and 
sugar to a cream, mix one teaspoon of cream tartar with the flour 
and cornstarch, one-half teaspoon soda with the sweet milk, add 
milk and soda to the sugar and butter; then add flour, then the 
whites of eggs, flavor to taste. Never fails to be good. 

Mrs. B. E. McCallum 

SUNSHINE CAKE 

Eleven eggs, all the whites, four yolks, one and one-half cups 
granulated sugar, one teaspoon cream tarter, one cup pastry flour; 
beat the eleven whites, beat the four yolks to a cream, add to the 
whites; sift the sugar, add to the eggs, mixing lightly, but thor- 
oughly; sift the cream of tarter and flour together five times, then 
add to the eggs and sugar; the beating must be done very lightly 
with an egg beater; turn into an ungreased pan, bake in a moderate 
oven for forty-five minutes. Mrs. F. J. Clay 



74 



BEST RECKIPTS 



ANGEL FOOD 

Whites nine larg-e, fresh eg-g^s or ten smaller ones; beat urn 
quite foamy, add small pinch of salt, and one-half teaspoon cream 
tarter; then continue beating- whites until they are very very stiff. 
then stir in one and one-fourth cups sifted g-ranulated sugar, one 
cup flour sifted four times, stir these in very lig-htl3\ Must have a 
tin on purpose for this cake and never g-rease it; bake in a moder- 
ate oven thirty-live or forty minutes. 

Mks. Ct. Smith 

VAN DEUSEN GOLD LOAF 

Yolks of eig-ht eg-g^s, one cup g-ranulated sugar, scant one-half 
cup butter, one-half cup sweet milk, one and one-half cups flour, 
two teaspoons baking- powder; cream butter and sug-ar well to- 
g-ether; beat yolks to a stifl" froth and stir with butter and sug-ar 
add milk; stir; add leaking- powder to flour, sift, and add to the mix- 
ture; stir very hard; bake in tube pan or a larg-e flat tin in a moder- 
ate oven. 

Mrs. G. Smith 

SNOW DRIFT CAKE 

Mix three cups of flour, one-half cup butter, two cups sug-ar, 
one cup sweet milk, whites of flveeg^g-s, two and one-half teaspoons 
baking- powder; bake in quick oven; flavor to taste. 

Mrs. a. C. Pynchon 

GOLD CAKE 

One cup sug-ar, three-fourths cup of butter, one-half cup sweet 
milk, two cups flour, yolks of eig-ht eg-g-s, one-half teaspoon soda, 
one-half teaspoon cream tarter; flavor to taste. 

Mrs. C. V. Van Epps 

MARBLE CAKE 

First part: Two cups white sug-ar, one cup butter, one-half 
cup sweet milk, three cups flour, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons 
cream tartar, whites seven eg-gs 



bp:st receipts 75 



Second part: Two cups brown sugar, one cup of molasses, 
one cup of butter, one cup sour cream, five cups browned flour, 
one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg-, yolks 
of seven eggs. 

Mks. a. C. Pynchon 

ALMOND CAKE 

Beat one cup sugar with nearly one-half cup butter and a half 
cup sweet milk, sift two cups of flour with a teaspoon of baking 
powder, add the whites of four eggs, beaten to a stiff froth and one 
pound of blanched almonds chopped fine. 

Mrs. J. C. Stewart 

WHITE PERFECTION CAKE 

One and one-half cups sugar,* one-half cup milk, one and one- 
half cups flour, one-half cup corn starch, whites of six eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth, one and one-half teaspoons of baking- powder; dis- 
solve the corn starch in the milk and add it to the sugar and butter 
after they have been creamed; then add flour, a little at a time, and 
the whites of the eggs; flavor to taste and beat thoroughly. 

Mrs. C. S. Soyster 

BRIDE'S CAKE 

One cup butter, three cups sugar, beaten to a cream, four cups 
flour, one-half cup corn starch, one cup sweet milk, and the whites 
of twelve eggs beaten to a stiff froth, two teaspoons baking powder 
sifted in the corn starch and the flour, flavor to taste; beat all thor- 
oughly; then put in buttered tins lined with letter paper well but- 
tered; bake slowly in a moderate oven. Ice the top. 

Mrs. I. J. Button 

WATERMELLON CAKE 

White part: Tw^o cups white sugar, two-thirds cu p of butter, 
two-thirds cup of sweet milk, whites of flve "egg's, one heaping tea- 
spoon baking powder sifted into three cups flour. 

Red part: One cup red sugar sand, half cup butter, half cup 
sweet milk, one teaspoon baking powder in two cups flour, half 



76 BKST RKCEIPTS 



pound raisins cut in two Jind rolled in flour, jolks of three eg"gfs; 
put in the white, the red in the middle and raisins for seeds. Then 
white on top and around the sides. 

Mrs. F. S. Plumb 

ALICE CAKE 

One cup of sugar, one eg'g", butter size of an eg"g", two teaspoons 

of baking- powder, two cups of flour, one of milk. Made by a little 

girl. 

Anna Boudlek 

SOFT GINGER BREAD 

One-half cup butter and lard mixed and melted, one-half cup 
•sugar, one-half cup Orleans molasses, one teaspoon g'inger, one egg 
well beaten, one even teaspoon" soda, one-half cup boiling water, 
one and one-half cups sifted flour. Bake ten minutes in a moder- 
ate oven. 

Miss M. E. Bkay 

A(WT GIXGi-K BREAD WITH SWEET MILK 

One cup sugar, three cups Hour, one cup sweet milk, one-half 
cup butter, one teaspoon soda, two of ginger; cream butter and 
sugar, add the other ingredients, lastly add the flour with the soda 
sifted in. Turn into a buttered tin and bake in a moderate oven. 

Mks. Paui. Mahlkk 

GIN'GER BREAD 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup dark molasses, one cup 
lard, one cup cold water, one heaping tablespoon of ginger, two 
ieaspoons of soda, pinch of salt: flour enough to make as thick as 
'jCake dough. Eat warm. ^ Too much flour makes it dry.) 

Mrs. FkaiVk Myres 

GINGER CAKE 

One egg, one 'aup molasses, one-half cup sugar, one cup ^our 
ajilk, one teaspoon soda in the milk, scant half cup melted butte- 



BKST RECKIPTS 



Two cups flour, one teaspoon baking" powder in the flour, on_ u.u- 
spoon each of ginger and cinnamon. 

Mrs. W. E. RrssELt 

GINGER BREAD THAT IS SPLENDID 

Two cups New Orleans molasses, one cup sugar, one scant 
cup butter, two cups sour milk, two eggs, one teaspoon ginger, one 
teaspoon cinnamon, two teaspoons soda, one cup raisins, four and 
one-half cups flour; this will make two good sized tins full. 

Mrs. C. V. Van Epps 



PIANOS 



CONFIDENXrAL 
WHOLESALE 
CASH PLAN 



To meet sharp competition we have had the. Dean Piano manufactured by- 
one of the leading makers of the world at a minimum cost. Every piano 

sold by us possesses genuine merit. Everything about them up to date 

full, deep, musical tone. They will last without exception as well as any 
piano made. We will be glad to submit catalogues and confidential whole- 
sale cash plao to a.nj person who is thinking of purchasing a piano. We 
control wholesale agency often other leading makes of pianos direct froni 
factory. 

O l^O A NI^ ^^ ^^^ ^°^^ agents for the semi-pipe' organ, the Vocallon,. 

\J t\\jkr\i \ ^ and other church, chapel and cottage organs. 

If vou are in the mai-ket for anything in the musical line write us for particulars. 

W. A. DEAN CO. 



Wholesale Music House, 

X. B. Mention this book when writing us. 



SIOUX CITY, IOWA 



BEST RECEIPTS 



Icings, Filling and Ice Creams 



"^''^S^^^'Z^^^^ 



SIMPLE ICINGS 

Two cups pulverized sug-ar, add milk slowly stirring" all the 
time until 3'ou have it the rig-ht consistenc}'. Flavor. Do not cook 
this. Add chopped nuts and you have a nice filling for la3^er cakes. 
The beauties of this icing are: it is easily made, hardens quickly, 
and does not become brittle or shell off from the cakes as cooked 
icings are apt to do. 

Mks. Fkdelia Perry. 

SIMPLE CHOCOLATE ICING 

The white of one Q^g, butter the size of a filbert, one teaspoon 
of water, pulverized sugar enough to spread on cake and not run; 
add to the icings a small square of chocola+e melted, and it is ready 
lor use. Mrs. F. W. Houck. 

ICLNG 

Put the white of one e-gg, one teas poon sweet milk and cream 
into a bowl, add confectionery sugar sufficient to stiffen and stir 
with a spoon. This must be used immediately as it will harden 
quickly. Flavor if desired. 

Mrs. C. S. Soyster. 



BEST RECEIPTS 79 



FROvSTING WITHOUT EGGS 

To one heaping- teaspoon of Poland starch and just cold water 
o dissolve it, add a little hot water and cook in a basin set in hot 
vater till very thick, or cook in a crock, either will prevent its be- 
;oming- lumpy. Should the sugar be lumpy roll it thoroughly, and 
itir in two and two-thirds cups while the starch is hot; flavor to 
aste, and spread on while the cake is warm. This should be made 
he day before using, as it takes longer to harden than when made 
vith eggs, but it will never crumble in cutting. This is excellent. 

Mrs. Col. Darnell 

BOILED FROSTING 

Two cups white sugar, one teaspoon flour, one-half cup water; 
itir well and set over fire, boil until it hairs from spoon, remove 
roni lire and beat in whites of two eggs. 

Mrs. O. H. Stickney 

BOILED ICING 

One cup granulated sugar, white of one egg; moisten the su- 
j-ar with water and boil until it hairs from the spoon; add this to 
he well beaten white, stirring all the time until it begins^ to thick- 
;n; fl'avor. Spread on cake. Care must be exercised in boiling the 
lugar. 

Mks. H. C. Strong. 

PLAIN UNCOOKED ICING 

White of one eg'g, not beaten, enough pulverized sugar to make 
t thick enough to spread nicely on the cake; one-half teaspoon any 
ia\'or preferred. Stir well together and use. 

Mrs. a. R. Coleman 

FILLING FOR CAKE 

White of one egg, well beaten, one inch of chocolate melted, 
six tablespoons granulated sugar, beat all together, put between 
ayers and on the top; use vanilla or any other desired flavor. 

Lavina Oldham 



80 BEST RECEIPTS 



CARMEL FILLING 

Three cups light brown sug-ar, one cup sweet milk, two table- 
spoons butter, one-half teaspoon vanilla; dissolve the sugar with 
the milk, add butter; boil until it can be taken in the fingers after 
dropping into cold water, remove from the fire, and beat until per- 
fectly cold; adding three tablespoons of cold miik slowly; should 
this seem to be getting too thin, do not add all the milk. This fil- 
ling should be just thick enough to spread nicely on the cake. 

Mks. Winona ']'insi-ev 

CARMEL FROSTING 

One cup brown sugar, one-half cup sweet cream, boil until it 
thickens, then add vanilla. 

jSIks. Coe 

CARMEL FILLING 

One cup sweet cream, one and one-half cup'^ maple syrup or 
light brown sugar, one tablespoon butter; boll until thick enough, 

Mks. VV. K. Russell 

FROSTING 

Take one cup of grated chocolate and dissolve over a dish of 
hot water. The beaten 3'^olks of two eggs, one-half cup milk, and 
one and one-half cups sugar, boil seven minutes, add the chocolate 
and stir together. Spread between and over the cakes. 

Mrs. B. F. McCormack 

FROSTING 

Three-fourths cup sugar, four tablespoons milk, boil eight 
minutes, take off stove and stir till creamy. 

' Mrs. W. E. Russell 

MARSHMALLOW FROSTING 
Bake aag-el food cake in a dripping pan so that it ca^ be cut itt 



BEST RECKIPTS 81 



squares when served; cover it with boiled frosting", then place, at 
equal distances apart, a marshmallow, so each piece will contain a 
mallow. 

Mrs. Dr. Myers 

MAPLE MOURSE 

Beat the yolks of four eg-g-s thoroughly, add to this, one g-ener- 
ous cup of maple syrup. Place on stove and stir until the egg's 
thicken the syrup. Strain throug-h wire sieve, then stand in a pan 
of ice water, and beat until light and cool; add to this one pint well 
whipped cream, give it alia good beating and place in a well packed 
freezer; use more salt than for ice cream. Let stand three or four 
hours. Delicious. 

Mrs. r^BER 

LEMON MARMALADE 

Six nice, large lemons, two pounds sugar, one half pound but- 
ter, twelve egg"s, leaving out the whites of four; grate the rind of 
Ihe lemon and squeeze the juice, mix with the butter and sug-ar; 
add the eggs well beaten, mix all together, and set on a kettle of 
boiling water, stirring till well cooked. 

Mrs. Van Patten 

ORANGE ICE 

Select six juicy oranges, put half a pound of granulated sugar 
and one pint of water over the fire, add the rind of an orange and 
boil for five minutes; strain, when cold add the strained juice of 
the six oranges; strain ag^ain through cheese cloth. A water ice 
should be smooth. Put in freezer and turn until well frozen. 

Mrs. J. VV. Tinsley 
• 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

Three quarts of rich cream, one and one-quarter pounds of 
sugar, three quarts of strawberries; put half the sugar and cream 
on to boil in a farina boiler and when sugar is dissolved set aside 
to cool, add the remaining half of sugar to the berr ies. Mash the 
berries well, stand aside one hour, then strain through fine mus- 



82 BEST RF.CRIPTS 



lin, add the remaining- half of cream to the sweetened cream and 
freeze a little then stir in fruit juice; finish freezing". 

Mrs. D. Heastand 

DELICIOITS ICE CREAM 

Take two quarts of cream, strain througfh a thin cloth, add 
eig-ht ounces of granulated sug-ar, flavor to taste; freeze slowly. 

H. M. Brock 

vSTRAWRERRY ICE 

Two quarts berries, juice two lemons, three cups sugar, one 
quart water, one pint cream; berries crushed throug-h a fruit 
squeezer, add water, then lemon juice, then sugar, iheri cream 
just before putting- into the freezer. 

Mrs. C. B. Brown sl(<w 

APRICOT ICE 

One can of apricots cut fine, (the same quality of any fresh 
fruit can be used instead,) add one pint of sugar, one quart cold 
water; when the sug-ar is dissolved freeze the mixture. When it 
beg-ins to harden in the freezer add one pint of whipped cream 
after whipping; continue to freeze until the consistenc}" of cream. 
When this is done you will have one g-allon. 

Mrs. Eleanor Gibson 

LEMON SHERBET 

Four lemons, one pint of sug-ar, one quart boiling water, whites 
of two eg-g-s; shave the peel of the two lemons into boiling- water, 
cover tig-htly and let stand ten minutes, squeeze the juice from the 
lemons, add the sug-ar, pour over this the boiling- water, let stand 
until cold; then add the whites of the two eg-g-s well beaten, and the 
steeped lemon; stir. Freeze same as ice cream. 

Mrs. C. J. Ingrnm 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET 

One half can of pineapple, two cups of lemon juice, or one each 
of lemon and orang-e, four cups of sug-ar, eight cups of water; put 
in the freezer and when it beg-ins to freeze, put in the whites of 
five eg-gs well beaten. 

Mrs. McCandless 



BEST RECEIPTS 83 



Cookies, Jumbles, Doughnuts 



'^'"^^"S^'^ 



DROP SPONGE COOKIES 

Thi'ee eggs well beaten, one-fourth teaspoon salt, one cup su- 
gai- added to the eg-gs and beaten again, coffee cup full of flour with 
one teaspoon baking- powder sifted into the flour, two teaspoons 
water; drop a teaspoon of this batter on a greased tin, a good ways 
apart so they will not run together. Delicious with strawberries. 

Mrs. E. Riddell 

GINGER SNAPS 

One cup^molasses, one-half cup butter and lard mixed, add 
enough hot water to make the cup three-quarters full, one heaping 
teaspoon soda dissolved 'in the molasses, one teaspoon g-inger; beat 
all together, then add flour enough to make a stiff dough; roll thin, 
cut with a small cutter, bake in a hot oven. 

Mrs. Gilbert Smith 

FRUIT COOKIES 

Three tablespoons of sour cream, one cup butter or part drip- 
ping's, two eggs, one cup chopped raisins, one and one-half cups 
sug-ar, one teaspoon each, soda, cinnamon and nutmeg; mix soft. 

Nellie Hills 



84 BEST RECEIPTS 



CRE.IAI COOKIES 

Two cups sug"ar, one cup butter creamed with the sug-ar, then 
add two eggs well beaten, stir all tog^ether, one and one-half cups 
sour cream, With one teaspoon of soda dissolved in the cream, one- 
half teaspoon salt, one heaping- teaspoon baking- powder, sifted 
with the flour; this must be mixed j.ist stiff enoug-h to roll, be very 
careful not to g-et the doug-h too stiff, < r your cookies will be too 
hard; roll doug-h very thin, and bake in .. quick oven. Will keep a 
week. « 

Auntie FAncher 

MOLASSES COOKIES 

One cup of molasses, one half cup of shortening-, three full 
tablespoons of water, one teaspoon of soda, one of ging-er, pinch of 
salt, flour enoug-h to make a soft doug-h. 

Mrs. O. H. Stickney 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES 

Two egg-s, one cup butter, one and one-half cups sug-ar, two 
tablespoons sweet milk, one-half teaspoon soda dissolved in the 
milk, one-half cup grated chocolate; sugar and butter creamed to- 
g-ether, eggs added well beaten; then the milk, lastly the chocolate; 
flour well sifted and enough to make a dough just stiff enough to 
roll; bake in a quick oven. 

Nina Oldham 

GINGER COOKIES WITHOUT SHORTENING 

One and one-half cups 'Orleans or sorghum molasses, one cup 
brown sugar, two eg-gs, two level teaspoons soda, one-half teaspoon 
salt, one tablespoon ging-er, one-half teaspoon cinnamon; warm the 
molasses, then add sugar, eg-g-s well beaten, then spices, and lastly, 
soda dissolved in just enoug-h water to dissolve it, sifted flour 
enough to r«ll easily; roll thin, cut with cookie cutter; bake in a 
rather quick oven. 

Mrs. J. E. Van Patten 



BEST RECEIPTS 85 



FROSTED CREAMS 

One cup sug-ar, one cup 'Orleans or sorghum molasses, one 
cup of butter and lard mixed, one cup of hot water, yolks of three 
eg"g"s, one teaspoon soda, one tablespoon each ginger and cinnamon, 
one teaspoon cloves, flour to make a soft doug-h. Put sugar and 
molasses together add butter and lard with the hot water, then 
the three yolks well beaten, then the spices, and the soda dissolved 
in cold water; beat all together, add flour, mix as soft as caii be 
handled; roll about one-quarter inch thick, cut with cookie cutt r, 
and bake in a quick oven. Icing- for same: Two cups sugar, the 
whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, the sugar boiled in one- 
third cup water until it hairs, beat the whites in this syrup until 
cool, flavor with any kind of preferred flavor; spread over the cook- 
ies when cold. 

Mrs. Sadie Hotxenbkck 

LADIES FINGERS 

Four eggs, two cups sugar, one cup butter, six tablespoons 
sweet milk, two tablespoons baking powder. Mix ingredients, 
then take out a piece of dough and roll on the board, with your 
hands; when round, cut it into finger-lengths and lay in bake tins 
two inches apart, because they spread. Bake in quick oven, like 
cookies; don't butter your tins. 

Mrs. H. T. Thompson 

JUMBLES 

Cream together two cups of brown sugar and one of butter, 
add three well beaten eggs and six tablespoons of sweet milk, two 
teaspoons of baking powder, flavor to taste; flour enough to make 
into soft dough; do not roll it on the board but break off pieces of 
dough the size of a walnut, and make into rings by rolling- out rolls 
as large as your finger and joining the ends. Lay them on tins an 
inch apart to bake, as they rise and spread. Bake in a moderate 
oven. These jumbles are very delicate but will keep a long time. 

Emma Roberts. 



86 BEST KICCEIPTS 



MARGUERITES 

Whites of two eg'g's beaten stiff, one larg^e cup pulverized sug-- 
ar, one cup chopped Eng-lish walnuts; stir this all tog-ether; spread 
on salt wafers, put in an ;ven until a lig"ht brown. Serve cold, 

Mks. Clara Manning 

ROCKS FOR LUNCHEON 

One and one half cups brown sugar, one cup butter, one cup 
Eng-lish walnuts, one teaspoon cinnamon, one half teaspoon salt, 
three eg-gs well beaten, two and one half cups flour, one cup fig's, 
dates or raisins, one teaspoon soda. -Drop a teaspoon of dough in 
a flat bake pan, leaving- room for spreading-. 

Mks. L. J. Button, 

DOUGHNUTS 

One and one half cups sugar, nine tablespoons of melted lard, 
mix with sug-ar, two and one half cups sour milk, heaping- teaspoon 
soda dissolved in milk, two eg-g's well beaten and put in with sugar 
and lard, one level teaspoon of salt, two teaspoons baking powder 
in the flour well sifted, flour enoug-h to make dough stiff enough to 
roll nicely^ — but not too soft — must have lard enough so that doug-h 
will rise at once to the top; roll to quarter inch thick, cut out with 
biscuit cutter and cut center out with small round cutter, drop in- 
to hot lard and keep turning- often until a g-olden browm, lift out on 
to a plate to cool. This will make a larg-e quantity and will keep a 
week — unless you have too many boys. 

Mrs. M. R. Lancher. 

WAFERS 

Three eg-gs beaten well, three tablespoons sugar added, three 
tablespoons sour cream with one half teaspoon soda dissolved in 
the cream, one half teaspoon salt, mix soft as you can roll, roll thin, 
cut out like doughnuts, drop in hot lard same as doug-hnuts and 
turn when brown, take onto a plate to cool — so much nicer in the 
summer than doug-hnuts. 

Mrs. Frank Frisbee 



BEST KKCEIPTS 87 



DOUGHNUTS 

Two heaping- teaspoon;^, of baking- powder and one quart of 
flour, mix these tog-ether by sifting- two or three times. Two e^g-s, 
one coffee cup of sugar, beat together, add a teacup new milk (or 
better half milk and half cream,') flavor. Mix all tog-ether reserv- 
ing" a little flour for rolling- out. Fry in hot lard. Waiter may be 
used instead of milk by adding- a teaspoon of butter. 

Emma Robkkts 

CRACKNELS PRILLING 

Two tablespoons of flour, two thirds of a cup of water, one 
teacup of sugar,, yolks of three eg-g-s, and one grated lemon, cook? 
when thickened fill the cracknells and frost top. Cracknels are 
purchased at the g-rocery. 

Mks. Dr. Myers 

FRIED CAKES 

One cup sugar beaten with two eg-gs, add one cup of thick 
sour milk and one teaspoon soda, three tablespoons of melted lard, 
flour enoug-h to roll nicely; salt and nutmeg- to suit taste. Fry in- 
hot lard, 

Mks. E. a. Ward 

DOUGHNUTS 

One and one half cups of sugar, one cup milk, three well beat- 
en eg-g-s, two tablespoons of melted lard, one quarter of a nutmeg-, 
two heaping- teaspoons'of baking- powder sifted with flour enoug-fe 
to make a soft dough; when cold roll in powdered sugar. 

Bessie Tinsley - 

VANITIES 

Beat well three eg-g-s, add one tablespoon each of sugar and 
cold water, one-quarter teaspoon of salt, stir in flour enoug-h to 
make a rather stiff doug-h; knead well on the board and divide into 
four or five portions, take one of these on the board and roll it very 



BEST RECEIPTS 



thin, the thinner the dough the nicer will be you vanities. Do not 
be alarmed if it sticks to the board, keep on rolling till it is as thin 
as paper, then tear, not cut, off pieces longer than half a hand's 
size; the more irregular in shape the prettier when done; drop in a 
kettle of smoking hot lard and fry to a delicate brown, turning once; 
take out and sprinkle powdered sugar over them; they wnll be 
covered with bubbles and present a very pretty appearance. 

Mrs. O. H. Stickney 

COOKIES 

One cup of sugar, one i^^g, one- half cup of sw'eet milk, one-half 
teaspoon of soda, one-half cup butter, flour to roll. 

Mrs. John Hunt 



COOKIES 

Three eggs, one cup butter or half butter and lard mixed, one 
and one-half cups of sugar, two heaping teaspoons baking powder, 
one-half cup of milk, flour enough to make a soft dough; roll with- 
out add'ing more flour than can be easily handled; sift baking pow- 
der with flour. 

Mrs. Mayfield 

GINGER SNAPS 

One cup sugar, one cup New Orleans molasses, one cup butter, 
two teaspoons cinnamon, one teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon soda, 
three tablespoons hot water, flour enoug-h to knead well; roll and 
cut thin. 

Mrs. D. Heastand 

MOLASSES COOKIES 

Three cups molasses, one and one-half cups lard, one and one- 
half tablespoons ginger, two eggs, two heaping teaspoons soda, a 
little salt; put molasses, lard and ginger on the stove and bring to 
a boil; then cool, and add eggs, soda and salt; use flour enough to 
make soft dough; roll lightly. 

Welcome, Minn. Mrs. Wm. Gibson 



BEST RECEIPTS 89 



EGGLESvS COOKIEvS 

Two cups RUg-ar, one cup sweet milk, one cup butter, one-half 
teaspoon soda, flour enoug-h to roll; use lemon, vanilla or nutmeg" 
for seasoning-. 

Mrs. E. E. McCallum 

FRIED CAKES 

Two e^g-s, one cup sour cream, one cup of sug-ar, one-third tea- 
spoon soda, teaspoon of lemon extract, one-third teaspoon cinna- 
mon, flour to roll. 

Mrs. John Hunt 



MISS L. E. YOUNGREN 

DRESSMAKER 

SIOUX CITY, IOWA 



WEDDING OUTFITS 
A SPECIALTY..... 



90 BEST RECEIPTS 



Pastry 



-^^^^^S'^'S^^*^ 



Pies are one of the most difficult of the culinary arts, the 
young- housekeeper has to master, yet one of the quickest and 
easiest articles of food prepared after she has learned how. One 
secret of pie making- is to have the water, lard or butter very cold, 
and the two latter pure and free from taint. When lard is used 
salt must be added; if butter, it is all ready salted, but should be 
held under water and washed to remove the buttermilk, then dried 
on a napkin. Baking powder is sifted into the flour. A very good 
crust is made by using one cup of lard to one quart of flour. An 
extra good crust can be made if an equal quantity of butter and 
flour are used; all the butter however must not be added to the 
flour, save two-thirds and spread it upon the crust after it is rolled 
out; then cut it into four portions, and lay one above the other, un- 
til all are used; let stand awhile before rolling; this makes it very 
flaky when cooked if rightly done. When making- juicy pies rub 
the under crust with a well beaten eg^ to prevent soaking; if corn- 
starch or flour is sprinkled over top before putting on upper crust, 
a jelly will be formed and it will prevent the juice from escaping- 
especially if the lower crust was wet around the edg-es and the 
upper one pressed down firmly, letting the steam escape from the 
incisions on top. Common sense and experience are two very es- 
sential articles required in pie making. 



BEST RECEIPTS 91 



CURRANT PIE 

One and one-half cups ripe currants, one cupsug-ar, one-half 
cup water, yolks two eg-g^s; mash the currants and sugar together — 
beat yolks to a cream, add to the currants, then the water, beat all 
together; bake with one crust; beat whites to a stiff froth, add two 
tablespoons of sugar; spread over the pie when baked; return to 
oven and let brown lightly. 

Mrs. W. S. Ayers 

BLUEBERRY PIE 

Nice fresh blueberries, (or canned berries can be used if you 
haven't fresh,) about one pint to a pie; dissolve one teaspoon corn 
starch in a little of the juice; add to the berries and one half cup 
sugar, fill a pie tin which has been lined with crust, add bits of but- 
ter over the top, press the edges of upper crust down firmly, bake 
in a well heated oven until crust is light brown. All berry pies 
are nice made this way. 

LucillS Stinson 

VINEGAR PIE 

One cup sugar, one half cup vinegar, two teaspoons fiour, one 
teaspoon of butter, one teaspoon of cinnamon, two cups of water; 
sift the flour and sug-ar together, add the other ingredients; boil 
all together until thick, then fill pie tin previously lined with crust 
and bake without upper crust. 

Mrs. Fidelia Perry 

GRAPE NUT PIE 

Pour about one cup of boiling water over one-half cup grape 
nuts. Let stand ten minutes, add twoeg-gs well beaten, four table- 
spoons sugar, two cups sweet milk, one-third tablespoon ginger, 
one teaspoon mixed ground spices, stir over a slow fire until thor- 
oughly boiled. Have a deep pie tin lined with pie crust and baked. 
Put in prepared grape nuts and return to oven to brown the top. 

Mrs. C. B. Brownslow 



62 BEST RECEIPTS 



APPLE PIE 

Line pie tin with a I'ich puff paste. Peel, core and slice g"ood 
tart apples, fill the lined tin full and sprinkle over it one large cup 
of g-ranulated sug-ar, and bits of butter on the top. If liked, a dust 
of cinnamon may be added. Moisten the edg-es of the under crust, 
(this prevents juice escaping-,) put on top crust, and press edg-es 
close tog-ether, prick top. 

Mrs. Ober 

COCOANUT PIE 

One half cup des'cated cocoanut in one cup of m'lk, two eg-gfs, 
one small cup of sug-ar, butter the size of an egg-; this is for one 
small sized pie; nice with a mering-ue on top. 

Mrs. T. H. Cruth 

COCOANUT PIE 

Boil one teacup milk, thicken with one tablespoon curn starch, 
the well beaten yolks of tvo eg-g-s, and one whole egg-. /'.dil one- 
fourth teaspoon salt; one-half cup sug-ar, cook all tog-ether until 
thick as thick g-ravy; have a pie tin lined with crust, pour in filling-, 
bake. Whites of two eg-g-s well beaten, one tablespoon sug-ar, 
spread over top, while pie is hot, sprinkle thickly with shredded 
cocoanut, then brown. This makes a small eig-ht inch pie. 

Mrs. Alice Brock 

. MRS. BROCK'S PIE CRUST 

One teacup of lard to half teacup of water, salt, flour enoug-h so 
rthat it %vil] be soft, roll quickly; work as little as possible, bake in a 
quick oven. 

CHERRY PIE 

One and one-half cups cherries, three-fourths cups sugar, add 
a very little water, put top crust on and bake in a quick ovc: 

Mrs. p. a. Edington 



BKST RECEIPTS 



PUMPKIN PIE 

Take a pumpkin, peel, take out seeds, cut into small pieces, 
put on stove with very little water as it must be all cooked out when 
the pumpkin is done which will be in about an hour. To this add 
three pints of milk, one coffee cup of sugar and three eg-g-s beaten 
tog-ether, one level teaspoon each of g-round cloves, cinnamon, all- 
spice, g-ing-erand salt, stir this all tog-ether; bake with one crust. 
This amount will make filling- for three pies. 

Squash pie, sweet potato pie, and common pumpkin pie, may 
be made in the same way as the above. 

Mrs. Geo. Barrage:r 

APPLE MERINGUE PIE 

One cup stewed apples run througfh a colander, three eg-g-s, 
(reserve whites of two for frosting-,) one-half cup sug-ar, small 
lump of butter, one-half pint of milk, one tablespoon flour, rubbed 
smooth with a little milk, seasoning- preferred; mix ing-redients; 
bake with one crust; spread top with frosting-, brown lig-htly. 

Mrs. N. T^elson 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE 

Make a very smooth sauce: to each cup of apples, add two well 
beaten eg-g-s, one-half cup" sweet milk; bake with one crust. 

Mrs. W. E. Russell 

POTATO PIE 

Boil and mash fine four potatoes, to which add three whole 
eg-g-s and three yolks, with one teacup butter, flavoring- and sweet- 
ening- to taste; beat the whites with sug-ar and spread on pies, 
brown lig-htly. 

Mrs. W. E. Russell 

CHOCOLATE PIE 

Three tablespoons of g-rated chocolate, three-fourths cup of 
sug-ar, one-half cup" of milk; beat until dissolved; boil two cups of 



94 BEST RECEIPTS 



milk, add two tablespoons of flour moistened with milk, one whole 
egg" and two yolks, flavor with vanilla. Use the whites foi frost- 
ing-, brown in the oven. 

Mrs. Lyman Hill 
MINCE MEAT PIE 

One pound lean beef, two pounds raisins, two pounds currants, 
four pounds sour apples, two pounds beef suet, three pounds meist 
brown sug-ar, one half pound candied lemon peel, one half pound 
citron. All the ingredients must be chopped fine, then mixed to- 
g-ether, add one tablespoon each of g-round cinnamon, nutmeg- and 
cloves, one tablespoon salt, one quart molasses and vinegar mixed; 
keep in a cool place. 

Mrs. F. S. Plumb 

SUMMER MINCE PIE 

One half cup sour cream, one half cup chopped raisins, one 
cup sugar, one tatlespoon of rolled crackers, one eg-g- well beaten, 
one teaspoon vineg'ar, spice to taste. 

Mrs. James Coleman 

MOCK MlNCE PIE 

Twelve crackers rolled fine, one cup hot water, one half cup 
vinegar, one cup molasses, one cup sugar, one cup currants, one 
cup raisins, spice to taste, some butter. Good for four pies. 

Mrs. C. C. Campbell. 

ORANGE PIE 

Grated rind and juice of two oranges, four eggs, four table 
spoons sugar, one of butter; cream butter and sugar, add beaten 
yolks of eggs, then rind and juice of orange, and lastly the whites 
beaten to a froth and stirred in lightly; bake with an under crust. 

Mrs. L. May Smith 

CUvSTARD PIE 

One pint sweet milk, three eggs well beaten, four tablespoons 
sugar; flavor with grated nutmeg; beat these all together; line a 



BEST RECEIPTS 95 



deep custard pie tin with paste and pour in the custard, bake thir- 
t}' minutes; when the center just quivers a little the pie is done. 

Mrs. D. G. Eldredg-e 

DRIED FRUIT PIE 

Wash the fruit thoroug-hly, soak over nig-ht in water enoug-h 
to cover, stew slowly until nearly done in the same water; sweeten 
to taste. The crust, both upper and under, should be rolled thin; 
a thick crust to a fruit pie is undesirable. 

Mrs. T. H. Smith 

COCOANUT CREAM PIE 

One half cup of sugar, one eg-g", cup milk, two tablespoons of 
cocoanut, two tablespoons of corn starch; dissolve corn starch in a 
pint of milk, add all the ing-redients tog-ether; cook until thick and 
pour into the baked crust. Spread with the frosting^ made v/ith 
the white of an egg" and four tablespoons of sug-ar; brown. 

Mae Toothaker. 

SPLENDID CR^AM PIE 

Separate the whites and yolks of four eggs, beat separately, 
add to the yolks one cup of white sug^ar, two cups sweet milk, one 
tablespoon of cornstarch or flour, make smooth in a little of the 
milk, flavor with lemon; beat all tog^ether and cook in a vessel with 
water around it; stir until thick like custard, this makes two pies. 
Have ready two crusts baked, spread the custard on the crusts; 
now beat one-half cup sugar with the whites of the eg-g-s^and spread 
over the top for frosting-; return to the oven until the frosting- cooks. 

Mrs. E. B. Hill 

CREAM PIE 

Yolks of two egg-s and cup of sug-ar beaten tog-ether, one table- 
spoon each of cornstarch and flour moistened with sweet milk; heat 
a pint of sweet milk, just before it comes 'to a boil, add the above 
ing-redients; one-half teaspoon any preferred flavor, cook until the 
consistency of cream, stirring- all the time; bake the crust while 



96 BEST RECEIPTS 



preparing- this filling-, then pour in, have the whites of two eg-ivs 
beaten to a stiff froth, and sweetened with three tablespoons of su- 
gar, spread over top, set in the oven long- enough to brown. 

La VINA Oldham 

CREAM PIE 

One pint milk, three eggs, one teacup sugar, two tablespoons 
cornstarch; beat yolks, sugar and starch together, let milk come to 
a boil, then stir in mixture, adding a teaspoon of buticr and one- 
fourth teaspoon salt, flavor with vanilla or any flavor. Bake crust 
and fill with custard; spread on top whites of two eggs !>eaten stiff, 
add two tablespoons sugar, set in oven to brown. , 

Mks. H. G. Campbell 

PIEPLANT PIE 

One cup pieplant cut tine, one egg well beaten, one cup sugar, 

one tablespoon flour, one teaspoon butter; add flour and sugar, then 

butter, next the egg and pieplant; beat all together, bake with two 

crusts. 

Mks. E. Riddell 

CRANBERRY PIE 

One coffee cup of split cranberries, one coffee cup sugar, one- 
half coffee cup hot water, one tablespoon flour lifted in sugar, one 
teaspoon butter; add the butter to the sugar and flour, then hot 
water, and lastly, the. cranberries; bake in a moderate oven be- 
tween two crusts. 

Mks. E. Riddell 

PIEPLANT MERINGUE PIE 

One cup stewed pieplant, one cup sugar, one heaping teaspoon 

of cornstarch, one tablespoon of butter, two eggs; bake the crust 

separate, beat the yolks with two tablespoons of sugar, andadd to 

other ingredients; put into the crust. The well beaten whites are 

put on top and pie returned to the oven to set filling and brown 

frosting. 

Mrs. Barber 



BEST RECEIPTS 97 



LEMON PIE 

Juice and grated rind of one lemon, one tablespoon cornstarch, 
one cup boiling" water, one cup sug:ar, one eg"g, piece of butter size 
of an egg; dissolve the cornstarch in a little cold water, then pour 
on it cup of boiling- water stirring- starch all the time; add sugar 
and butter, stir well; when cool, add the well beaten egg, then the 
lemon; have the crust ready baked, -pour in this filling-; have the 
white of one eg-g- beaten stiff, add to it two tablespoons sug-ar, stir 
in well and spread over top of pies; return to oven long- enough to 
lightly brown. 

Mks. Gilbert Smith 

LEMON PIE 

Three eg-g-s, one-half cup sug-ar, three tablespoons of corn- 
starch, (mix well,) g-rate outside of lemon, put with mixture, .also 
squeeze into it the lemon juice, two cups of boiling- water; boil un- 
til thick enoug-h for pies; pour into crust and let settle and then 
put on frosting-. One larg-e or two small pies. 

Mrs. E. B. Hills 

• LEMON PIE 

One teacup sug-ar, yolks of three eg-gs, two-thirds cup of water, 
and one grated lemon, three tablespoons of flour; bi:::c thoroug-hl}^; 
while in oven beat the whites of the eggs to a foam, add three tea- 
spoons of sug-ar, turn it over the pie, and return to the oven to 
brown nicely. Very g-ood. 

Mrs. D. S. Ling 



98 BEST RECEIPTS 



Desserts 



-^=^"^"2^^^ 



HIGH WORK 
To duty firm, to conscience true, 

However tried and pressed, 
In God's clear sight high work we do, 

If we but do our best. 

It takes two grains of common sense in putting- tog-ether the 
ing-redients, and eternal vig-ilence in cooking them from the mo- 
ment of starting the process. 

Good receipts amount to nothing in the hands of an ignorant, 
negligent cook, man or woman. 

This is my best word for cooks, for housekeepers, for ever\^- 
body. 

Sincerely yours, 

Susan B. Anthony 

LEMON PUDDING 

The yolks of four eggs, one cup of sugar, one quart of milk, 
one pint of bread crumbs, one teaspoon of butter, the grated rind 
of one lemon. When done, spread over the top a layer of jelly, add 
the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth, sweetened with one 
cup of sugar, and flavored with the juice of the lemon, then set in 
oven to brown slightly. Allow one half hour for baking the pud- 
ding. Mrs. T. Bloxham 



BEST EKCICIPTS 99 



STEAMED BREAD PUDDING 

One pint of bread crumbs, one cup molasses, one cup water 
one cup flour, one cup stoned raisins, one tablespoon melted buttei 
oue eg-g-, one teaspoon soda. Steam two hours. If preferred, ad( 
nuts. 

Mrs. O. H. Sticknry 

ECONOMY PUDDING 

Left ovei cake, cookies or g-ing"er bread with any kind of a g"00 
pudding- sauce, makes a good dessert. Steam or warm up th 
calies. 

Waterloo, Iowa. Mrs. Sarah W. Whitney 

FIG PUDDING 

One-half pound of figs, six ounces suet, one-half pound brea^ 
crumbs, one heaping" cup of g-ranulated sug-er, suet and figs choj 
ped fine, two eggs, pinch salt, one-half nutmeg, and one-half tea 
spoon soda dissolved in milk; moisten all with milk, work thoi 
oug-hly, put into a well buttered dish and steam three hours. 

Mrs. Will Isenhart 

RHUBARB PUDDING 

Cover 'the bottom of a buttered pudding- dish with some fin 
bread crumbs and then with a thick layer of^ rhubarb cut into dice 
Sug-ar is scattered thickl}- over the rhubarb, more bread crumb 
added and the dish filled up in this way; bread crumbs being o 
top, with a few bits of butter and a slight grate of orang-e peel, i 
that flavor is liked. The pudding- should be baked in a slow ove; 
until the rhubarb is thoroughly cooked and the top of the pud 
ding- is a tempting brown. 

Mrs. W. a. Petzoldt 

ORANGE PUDDING 

Three orang-es, peeled and sliced thin, sprinkle over this one 
half cup sugar, one pint of milk; yolks of three eggs, one-fourth 
teaspoon salt, tablespoon cornstarch, three tablespoons sugar 

Lore. 



100 BEST RECEIPTS 



yolks beaten creamy, sugar added, then cornstarch dissolved in a 
little milk, then salt; and after stirring- these all well tog-ether 
add to the milk which has been heated to near boiling-, stirring- all 
the time until it is like thick cream, pour over the orang-es while 
hot; whip whites to a stiff froth, add one-half cup sug-ar, pour 
over the pudding-, set in a pan of cold water, set in a hot oven un- 
til the whites brown lig-htly, remov-.\ set aside to cool. Serve very 
cold. Better set on ice. 

Mrs. Mae Wilsi^y 

BIRD'S NEST PUDDING 

One egg-, two tablespoons sugar, one tablespoon butter, one- 
fourth teaspoon salt, one-half cup sweet milk, two teaspoons bak 
ing powder, flour enough to make a thick batter; pare, core and- 
slice enough tart apples to fill a pie tin, spread batter over the top, 
bake abi:)ut thirty minutes or until the crust is a light brown and 
the apples are done, v^erve hot, cutting- the pudding into sections 
and turning upside down on the dessert plate and dressing it with 
sugar and cream. Very good. 

Mrs. Clara Manning 

OKAXGE PUDDING 

Two large orang-es pared and cut in pieces, put in bottom of 
pudding dish; pour over them cup of white sugar, tht^n make a 
plain cornstarch pudding without sugar and pour it over the 
orange and sugar. Let stand and cool. 

Mrs. Col. Darnell 

DATE PUDDING 

One pint flour, one-third cup of molasses, one-third pint hot 
water, (it must be hot too. ) one-third pint melted butter, one-half 
teaspoon soda, one-half pint dates, seeded, ch<ipped and floured. 
Steam two and one-haif inairs. Serve hot or cold, and should any 
be left, put away where it will keep, and steam it up again when 
you wish to use it. Can be eaten with or without cream or with 
any kind of good pudding sauce. 

Mrs. Geo. Barrager 



BEST RECEIPTS 101 



GRAHAM PUDDING 

One cup 'Orleans or sorg-hum molasses, one cup sweet milk, 
one-half cup currants, one-half cup raisins, one and one-half cup3 
sifted g-raham flour, one tablespoon butter, two teaspoons cinna- 
mon, half a nutmeg", one teaspoon soda; beat all tog^ether and steam 
two hours. To be eaten with Sweet cream or an}- kind of pudding- 
sauce. Sauce for same: One cup sug-ar, one tablespoon flour 
stirred in sug-ar, pour on this one pint of boiling- water stirring- all 
the time, add a lump of butter size of eg-g-. set on stove; when but- 
ter is ^ve^ cooked in, remove and add one yolk well beaten, stirring- 
in very rapidly, flavor with nutmeg- or vanilla. 

Mks. a. W. Johxsox 

MOCK SUET PUDDING 

One cup g-raham, one cup flour, one cup milk, one cup molas- 
ses, one cup raisins, one teaspoon soda, season with salt and cinna- 
mon. Steam three hours. 

Mrs. R. E. Darnell 

PUFF PUDDING 

Stir tog-ether one pint flour, one eg-g", two 'teaspoons baking- 
powder, a little salt, and enoug-h milk to make soft batter; place in 
steamer well buttered cups, put in each a spoonful of batter, then 
one of berries, apples, or anv convenient sauce, cover with another 
spoonful of batter, and steam twenty minutes. This may be 

served with whipped cream, or a sauce. 

Mrs. Ober 

SAUCE FOR PUDDING 

To one pint boiling* water add a pinch of salt, and butter half 
the size of an eg-g-. Thoroug-hly mix one heaping- tablespoon of 
flour with two-thirds cup sug-ar, then make in thin paste with wa- 
ter, adding- any extract desired and add all to boiling- water. 

Mrs. Cook 



102 BKSr KIOCEIPTS 



SNOW PUDDING 

One-half cup each g-elatine and cold water mixed tog-ethei", and 
let stand until soft, add tu this one cup sugar, one cup boiling- wa- 
ter, strain, add the juice of two lemons; put in a cool place or on 
ice, until it beg'ins to jelly; then add the whites of three eggs beat- 
en stiff, beat all together rapidlj'^; turn into a deep dish or pudding- 
mold, and stand on ice. Serve plain or with the sauce made as fol- 
lows: Pint of milk heated to I oiling- point, the yolks of three eg-gfs, 
and three tablespoons of sugar beaten tog-ether; remove from iire 
just before it boils. Flavor with vanilla, set on ice to cool. 

Mks. F. J. Clay 

GELATINE PUDDING 

Soak one-half box g-elatine in one-half pint cold water one hour, 
add half pint hot water, — stir thoroug-hly — one-half cup sugar, one- 
teaspoon any preferred fiayor, slice nice, ripe bananas into a deep 
dish, turn the mixture over the bananas, set in a ci^ol place or on 
ice. This is a very nice dessert for Sunday dinner as it can be 
made on Saturday and put in a cool place until Sunday, — any kind 
of fruit may be used instead of bananas, using- more sug-ar for tart 
fruits. 

Mrs. Emma Dockendokf 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING 

Pare six medium sized tart apples, core with a corer, and place 
in a deep baking- dish, put a small bit of butter in each apple, pour 
over them a dressing- made as follows, and put into a hot oven and 
bake twenty minutes. Dressing: One-half cup well washed tapioca, 
put in two cups cold water, set over the fire to cook twenty min- 
utes, add one cup sugar, flavor with lemon; this pudding- can be 
either hot or cold; with or without cream, or should you wish it, 
fill the core place with butter and g-rated nutmeg". 

Mks. L. May Smith 

PINEAPPLE GELATINE PUDDING 

One box Plymouth Rock g-elatine soaked in a pint of cold water 
one-half hour, add one and one-half pints boiling- water. While 



BEST KECiClPTS 103 



warm stir in one and one-haif cups suj^ar, add one fresh pineapple 
cut in small bits, or one can of pineapple cut small, and juice; stir 
in well, and set away in a cool place to bai'den. Serve with whipped 
cream. This is nice li' usc^' an\' other kind of fruit besides the 
pineapple, or two inds tog"ether. Should you use 

two or three kinds, add a .ill: water to make it a little more 



thin. 



Mks. Millakd Logan 



KISS P 



Boil (me quart sweet uiilk i four heaping- tablespoons 

of sug:i!-. :ind foui luitiospoons cor dissolved in a little cold 

water, add the well beatcii " '-i'&s5 beat whites to a stiff 

froth, add one cup suyr, • ; vanilla, spread on top of 

pudding", pluc n to brown, take out and "sprinkle with 

cocoanut, put ui a cuui pi.ioc or on> ice. 

Mrs. H. T. Thompson 

SAUCE FOR PUDDING 

One-half cup sugar, one-haif cup buiLei . unt; pint sweet milk, 
two teaspoons corn starch; cream sugar and butter, pour hot milk 
over and cook until thick. 

Mks "v"^' "' r, IsENHAKT 

^ CANDIED ORANGE PEEL 

Cut off all white possible, cut peeling in small strips, boil in 
clear water ten minutes, drain well, put on a small quantity of wa- 
ter, boil until soft, put on sug-ar and boil until it candies. Use one 

teacup of sugar to live orang-es. 

Mks. Isk:nhart 

RASPBERRY FLOAT 

Crush a pint of very ripe, red raspberries, with a gill of sugar; 
beat the whites of four eg-g-s to a stiff froth, and add gradually a 
g-ill of powdered sugar; press the raspberries through a tine strain- 
er to avoid the»seeds, and by degrees beat in the juice with the eg-g- 
and sug"ar, until so stiff that it stands in peaks. 

Mrs. Col. Darnell 



104 BEST RECEIPTS 



BANANA BAKED IN CUSTARD 

Make a custard of one pint of milk and the jolks of four eg-g^s. 
Take four bananas, peel and cut leng-thwise into slices. Butter the 
dish, pour in a little of the custard which should be cool, and have 
the whites of the eg"g"s beaten stiff added, then a layer of bananas, 
and so on till the dish is kalf full. Bake in a quick oven twen- 
ty-five minutes, serve immediately. 

Harry Carpenter 

A NICE DESSERT 

Put into a baking- dish a layer of tart apples, then a layer of 
sugfar, until dish is full. Add a cup of water, cover and bake slow- 
ly for two or three hours. Set away to cool, when turned out you 
will have a layer of apples and a layer of jelly. 

Sioux City, Iowa. Mrs. P. M. Casady 

PEACH MERINGUE 

One cup of peaches cut small, add one-half cup of powdered 
sug-ar, and the white of an egfg-; beat with a fork until it becomes 
creamy. Chill in refrig-erator and serve with whipped cream. 

E. AND H. 

HOT CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

Boil tog"ether until they thicken, one-half cup rich milk, yolk of 
one eg-g-, one-fourth cake Baker's chocolate, g^rated, set aside and 
when cold, add teacup sugar, one tablespoon butter, one-half tea- 
cup milk, two cups sifted flour, two scant teaspoons baking" powder 
sifted in with the flour, and one teaspoon vanilla, bake in a small 
loaf tin thirty minutes. Serve, covered with a rich hot chocolate 
icing- poured over the cake, (for icing- see recipe for icing-,) and ov- 
er that a layer of whipped cream. 

Gertrude Riddell 

SUET PUDDING 

One cup suet chopped fine, one cup brown sug-ar, one cup hot 
water, one cup raisins, two cups flour, two teaspoons baking- pow- 



BEST RECEIPTS 105 



der; put the hot water on suet, then add brown sugfar, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, sift the flour and baking- powder tog-ether, dredg-e the 
raisins with the flour, and add these last. Steam three hours, and 
serve hot with the following- sauce: One cup brown sug-ar with one 
tablespoon of flour stirred thoroug-hly in it, pour over this a cup of 
boiling- water, cook ten minutes; flavor with fruit juice or any pre- 
ferred flavor, use while hot. 

Mrs. Frank Webster 

SUET PUDDING 

One cup suet, one cup sug-ar or molasses, two and one-half cups 
flour, one teaspoon g-ing"er, one teaspoon cinnamon, one- 
half teaspoon allspice, one-half teaspoon nutmeg-, two cups 
raisins, one cup sweet milk, one teaspoon soda, a little salt. 
Pudding- sauce: One-half cup sug-ar, two teaspoons butter, two tea- 
spoons flour. Flavor with lemon; one pint boiling- water. 

Emma Roberts 

SUET PUDDING 

One cup raisins, one cup molasses, one cup sug-ar, one-half 
•cup sweet milk, one cup suet chopped fine, one spoonful each of 
cloves, cinnamon, soda and salt, flour to thicken. Steam two hours. 

Mrs. John Hunt 

RICE PUDDING 

Two-thirds cup of rice, three pints of nev/ milk, one-half cup 
of sug-ar, pinch of salt; put in oven and bake until rice is done; then 
add one cup of raisins, one cup of cream; return to the oven to 
brown. Set aside to cool. 

Mrs. Geo. Hoskins 

PANDOWDY 

Put one pint canned peaches in a quart basin, make a batter of 
one cup sweet milk, one eg-g-, butter size of an eg-g- melted, two 
tablespoons baking- powder, flour to make it stiff enoug-h to roll, 
cover it over the peaches; bake until crust is brown. Serve hot 
with sug-ar and rich cream. 

Mrs. Hattie Hurd 



106 BEST RRCKIPTS 



CREAM PUFFS 

One cup boiling- water, one cnp of flour, one tablesp'.on of but- 
ter; put the butter in the boiling- \vater and sift the flour into them 
and stir well, then set it aside to cool; break in three eggs oneat'a 
time, stirring- thoroug-hly. Drop into hot buttered g-em tins and 
bake in a moderate oven from forty to fifty minutes; cut a little 
opening- in the top and fill with whipped cream. 

Ida Edgkrton 

CREAA'.^ PUFFS 

Boil with a larg-e cup of hwi. \w.Lcr, butter and lard (mixed) the 
size of an eg-g-, sith-ring- in one teacup of flour during- the boiling-; 
set aside to cool and when cold, stir in four eg-g-s one at a time 
without beating-; drop on tins qui :kh^ and bake for thirty minutes 
in a fairly hot oven. When baked, fill with a cream made by beat- 
ing- together, three tablespoons of flour, one egg-, and a half cup su- 
g-ar; stir into one-half pint of milk while boiling- and flavor to liking-. 
Must not look into oven for fifteen minutes as there is dang-er of 
puffs failing-. 

Mrs. W. a. Petzoldt 

RAISIN PUFFS 

Two eg-g-s, half cup of butter, (good measure,) one cup of milk, 
two cups of flour, two heaping- teaspoons of baking- powder, one cup 
of raisins dried cherries; put in buttered cups steam forty-five 
minutes. Serve with liquid sauce or maple syrup. 

Mrs. Bloxham 

CHERRY CHARLOTTE 

A very simple, delicious and inexpensive dessert may be made 
from either the fresh or the canned fruit. If the fresh fruit is 
used as of course it would be during- the cherry season, it must be 
stewed g-ently for a few moments and sweetened. Do not forget 
to stone the cherries. Cut a few slices of stale bread; butter these 
liberally and with them cover tlie bottom of a pudding- dish, add a 
layer of the warmed stewed cherries, add another layer of buttered 



BIOST KKCKIPTS 101 



bread, and so alternate until the fruit is used; then bake from 
twenty to thirty minutes. This pudding- may be eaten cold with 
cream or boiled custard; serve in little custard cups. 

Mrs. L. Wagnek 

t 

PLUxM PUDDING 

One cup of suet chopped fine, one cup of sug-ar, two cups flour. 
one cup English currants, one cup raisins, one scant teaspoon salt, 
one teaspoon cinnamon, one-eighth teaspoon cloves, and citron if 
desired. Wet with as little water as possible, put in a bag- and. 
boil four hours without stopping-. Serve with sauce. 

MrvS. Van Patticn 

RICE APPLES 

Boil one-half pound of rice in one quart of milk, add one-half cup 
sugar. Pare and core severi or eight apples, place in slightly but- 
tered baking dish, fill cavity with jam or jelly, put the rice in and 
around the apples; bake thirty minutes, leaving the top uncovered, 
when done frost with the whites of two eggs, sift on sugar and re- 
turn to the oven to brown. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Lena Steel 

LEMON RICE PUDDING 

One cup of boiled rice, two cups of milk, grated rind of lemon, 
butter size of an egg, yolks of three eggs; bake twenty minutes. 
" Use the whites for frosting-, flavor with juice of a lemon. 

Mrs. S. S. Wold 

PINE APPLE PUDDING 

Two-thirds box of gelatine, one pint boiling water poured over 
, and dissolved, one-half pint siig-ar, whip together with egg beater 
until white foam, set away to cool, juice of one lemon and one 
orange, four or five tablespoons of pine apple (canned), whites of 
four well beaten eggs; stir all together, place in a mold in a cool 
place. Put on a little whipped cream when you serve it. 

Mrs. D. E. Dean 



108 BEST RECEIPTS 



COTTAGE PUDDLNG 

One cup of sug-ar, one cup milk, one tablespoon of butter, two 
eg"g"s. one teaspoon of soda, two teaspoons of cream of tartar, one 
cup of fruit, and one pint of flour. • There is a difference in flour, 
perhaps with your flour, this may be either too thin or to thick. 

Mrs. D. Heastand 

INDIAN PUDDING 

Two cups of indian meal, two cups of sweet milk, one-half cup of 
Gutter, one-half cup of molasses, one-half teaspoon salt, small tea- 
spoon of soda; heat milk to boiling-, stir slowly the salted meal, 
add'butter and molasses, then put in l)uttcre(l mold, and steam 
three hours. 

N. G. 

LEMON CORN STARCH 

Two cups boiling- water, one cup sug-ar, two and one-half table- 
spoons of corn starch wet with enough cold wat.M- to moisten nicc'ly, 
■one-fourth teaspoon salt; (stir the sugar in the water and then the 
corn starch and salt; cook alu'iit five minutes stirring all the time,) 
juice of one lemon, and rind g-rated, stir in after pudding is cooled; 
set on ice or in a cool place, or c.,n "be turned into cups and served 
with cream or whipped cream is* very nice. Can be made Saturday 
makes a nice Sunday dessert. 

Mrs. Ti. C. Horjj<:NBi:cK 

TAPIOCA PUDDING 

One-half cup tapioca washed in cold water, then soaked over 
migflit in cold water, twoeg-gs, whites and yolks separated and yolks 
^well beaten, one quart milk and three tablespoons sugar, put into a 
"two quart granite basin or pudding dish, add the beaten yolks and 
one-fourth teaspoon salt, the tapioca; stir all together, set in 
moderate oven, cook until the consistency' of cv.stard, beat the 
■whites to a stiff froth, add two tablespoons sugar, one-half teaspoon 
vanilla,. then l)eat until stiff; spread over top of pudding- retnru to 
oven until a light brown. Serve cold, with or without crean: 

Mrs. H. G. Campbell 



BEST RECKIPTS 'i':'> 



DANISH CREAM 

Chop four ounces of Almonds, boil with six ounces of sag"o in a 
pint of raspberr}' juice until the sago is cooked; (and that is when 
the sag"o looks clear,) beat one eg^g- stir in while hot, turn into a 
mold or small cups, let stand until perfectly cold, twelve hours or 
longer; serve with whippet! cream. One of the best things you 
ever tasted. Remove the cream from the stove before stirring irt 
the egg. Gertrude Riddell 

FLOATING ISLAND 

Beat the whites of three eggs stiff, make a little sweet, and boil' 
in a quart of nice sweet milk, being careful to place the beateni 
whites in the milk in tablespoonfulls; as they rise turn them when 
done; lift out carefully with a skimmer and place on a plate; then^ 
put the three yolks previously beaten and three whole eggs well. 
beaten into hot milk, stirring well until it thickens; sweeten and 
flavor to taste. As soon as a little cool turn this into a pretty glass 
dish or sauce dishes and place one of the white islands on top. A 
delicious and pretty dish. 

Mrs. J. W. McFakland 

ROLLED APPLE DUMPLINGS 

Peel and chop fine tart apples; make a crust of one cup of rich 
buttermilk, one tablespoon soda, and flour enough to roll; roll half 
an inch thick; spread with the apples, sprinkle with sugar and cin- 
namon; cut in strips two inches wide, roll up like jelly cake, set the 
rolls in dripping pan, putting a teaspoon of butter on each. Bake, 
in a moderate oven, basting often with the juice. 

I Mrs. F. C. Steel 

SPICED BAKED APPLE 

Six tart apples washed clean, remove the blow, slice crosswise- 
in three slices; in a granite basin place a layer of apples, so sliced, 
with a clove in each slice, and bits of butter and sugar sprinkled 
over sach la3-er, then a layer of apples and so on until all are used, 
pour one-half teacup water over all, put in a moderate oven, bake 
slowly thirty minutes, serve cold. Mrs. J. Shixski 



110 BEST RECEIPTS 



APPLE SAUCE 

' Peel, quarter and core g"ood tart cooking- apples, cook until they 
will mash easily in just water enough to not quite cover them; run 
through a colander; return to fire, add enough sugar to suit the 
taste, about one cup to a quart of the sauce, and slice half a lemoii 
in this, cook until the sugar is dissolved; remove from fire take oul 
lemon. Delicious either warm or cold. 

Pkof. E. J. Decever 

TAPIOCA CREAM 

Soak over night two tablespoons of tapioca in one-half cup milk 
or water, at least soak a few hours; bring one quart of milk to boil- 
ing point; beat the yolks of three eggs with one- half cup of sugar 
and stir into milk, let boil up once and remove from fire; turn into 
dish and spread beaten whites of eggs on top; put in oven, brown 
lightly; flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. H. T. Thompson 

BOILED APPLES 

One dozen medium sized Baldwin appies, or any good cooking 
apple preferred; remove the blow, wash and wipe, place in ^ porce- 
lain kettle with one teacup of water, cover tightly, boil fifteen 
:'^':tes, remove cover, add small teacup sugar, set on back of 
and simmer, (leave cover off), remove apples to dish, let syr- 
up boil five minutes watching closely, pour over apples, delicious 
■■'■■'''- r hot or cold, can be eaten plain or with sweet cream. 

lull, Iowa. , Mrs. Adelaide Ballard, 

State Organizer L E. S. A. 

HEAVENLY HASH 

Oranges, banaaas, lemons, apples, i-aisins and pineapples, are 
ut into bits, work just enough to thicken their juices; then serve 
with a little grated nutmeg.- But the serving is the pretty part; 
cCi.t a hole just large enough to admit a spoon in the stem end of an 
(,>rang-e, and through this hole take out all the inside of the orang^e, 
iill ridd with heavenly hash and serve on a pretty little glass fruit 
dish with lemon or orange leaves. 

Mrs. L. May Smith 



BEST RECKIPTS 111 



STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE 

One quart sifted flour, two teaspoons baking^ powder sifted 
with the flour, one tablespoon of unmelted butter rubbed in the 
flour, one-half teaspoon salt, en "a"b sweet milk to make a doug-h 
as stiff as can be stirred with turn into a deep buttered 

pic tin, bake twenty minutes in :t ■lu.cti oven; have ready a quart of 
nice, fresh, ripe strawberries in a deep dish, pour over them one 
cup sug"ar, mash with a silver fork. When cake is done, split op- 
en, butter, put on strawberries, put top back on, put balance of 
berries on top of cake, and serve with or without cream. 

Lizzie Pefferly 

STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE 

Take two boxes strawberries, thoroughly wash, add one cup 
of sug-ar. mash together and spread ' between any common layer 
cake. Serve with cream. Try it. 

Mrs. J. W. Tinsley 

CRANBERRY PUDDING 

Cream one-third of a cup of butter with one-half cup of sugar, 
add, one or two eg"gs well beaten; mix one large teaspoon of baking 
powder with two eups of flour, add this to the first mixture with 
enough milk to make a stiff batter, add two cups of cran berries 
which have been floured with some of the flour alread}- measured; 
turn into buttered mold and plung^e into a kettle of boiling water, 
steam one and one-half hours. Serve with cream sweetened and 
flavored with nutmeg, or a cream sauce made as follows: -Boil a 
cup of milk, beat the yolk of one egg, and a level teaspoon of flour, 
svith a tablespoon of sugar; wiien the milk boils stir this into it and 
let cool: flavor_to taste. 

Mrs. Soyster 

FOXDAXT 

Place in a stew pan two cups or one pound granulated sugar, 
one cup or one-half pint cold water: when the mixture commences 
to boil stir in lightly, one-fourth teaspoon cream tartar to prevent 
syrup from becoming sugary: (graining is usually prevented bv 
covering kettle so that steam will wash back into the boiling- mass 



112 BEST RECEIPTS 



all the accumulations on the sides of the kettle,) boil rapidly with- 
out stirring-, (should a crust form on top skim off,) test by drop- 
ping- a little of the syrup in cold water, if it forms a soft ball, be- 
tween the fing-ers it is done; pour quickly into a dish without scrap- 
ing the kettle and allow the mixture to become luke warm; (ag-ain 
skim off any crust there may be on top.) Stir one way until it looks 
creamy; then work with the hands until the Fondant is fine g-rained; 
it will be of a liner texture if allowed to stand covered with a damp 
cloth from one to two hours, or long-er if convenient; should the 
mixture seem rather hard, a little hot water may be added while 
kneading-; if too soft it must be reboiled. This finislied is the 
foundation for the g-reat variety of cream bonbons. 

Mrs. O. H. Stickney 

STUFFED DATES 

Take fifteen cents worth of dates, split them down lengthwise 
with a knife and remove the seed; chop three-f<uirths of English 
walnuts, and mix chopped meats into a cup of Fundant, break off 
enough Fondand to .stuff each date; press the opening- together and 
roll in powdered sug-ar. 

Mks. O. H. Stickney 



r ionic 

SHELDON, IOWA 

Ireton, Iowa, June 17, 1899. 
N. W. Smf.ad, Sheldon, Iowa. 

Dear Sir: I used the bottle of hair tonic prepared by yourself 
and I v.-aut to tell you that I have used a great many different kinds 
of tunics recommended for dandruff, but I have never found any- 
thing that has done the work that this one bottle of your tonic has 
done. I take great pleasure in recommending it to the public. 

Very truly, 

W. C. Button, 

Deputy Ri.Liht Worthy Grand Chief Templar, I. O. G. T. 

Trial Bottle Sent Postpaid For 75 Cents 



BEST RECEIPTS 11^ 



Pickles 



In making- pickles use none but the cider or home made vine- 
gar; keep them in glass, wood or stoneware; never in metal. Stir 
pickles occasional!}' and if there are soft ones take them out; 
scald the vinegar and pour it hot over the pickles. Keep them well 
covered with vinegar. When scalding the vinegar over put a larg-e 
handful of sugar to each gallon. . Do not boil vinegar or spice over 
five minutes. 

MUSTARD. Two quarts each of ripe cucumbers, small string- 
beans and g-reen tomatoes sliced, one-half dozen small sharp 
peppers sliced, one dozen sweet peppers sliced, one quart of small 
white t)nions, two dozen very small cucumbers, one head of cauli- 
flower, (jne quart of celery, one pound of sugar, one-half pound of 
English g-round mustard, two teaspoons of turmeric powder; salt 
the beans, tomatoes, peppers and onions, and let them stand lyider 
Pressure for twelve hours; make a pickle for cucumbers and cauli- 
flower and pivur over them, let them stand t\\ elve hours; mix 
everything w eh; put some water and vinegar on the stove to heat, 
after which put the cucumbers, beans, onions and cauliflower in 
and scald about twenty minutes, then puur in a steamer and let 
drain. Mix everything- well in a larg-e kettle except.no- the turmeric, 
and boil one hour, as soon as it is lifted from the stove, add the 
turmeric, mixing- it thoroughlv. — Mrs. D. Heasland 

PICKLES. Colander sliced green tomatoes, colander of peeled 
and sliced green cucumbers, colander of peeled and sliced silver 
onions, two double handsful of salt; let stand twent3'-four hours, 
drain through a sieve; use one-half ounce of celery seed, one-half 
ounce of uhole allspice, one teacup white mustard seed, one-half 
teacup of whole black pepper, one tablespoon turmeric, one pound 
of brown sug-ar, two tablespoons of ground mustard, one g-allon of 
Vinegar; add vinegar, turmeric, and sug'ar, heat very hot and pour 
'>ver pickles; scatter seed through in lasers. Mrs. O. H. Stickney 

CKAH APPlvE PICKLES. Steam until they can be pierced 
witli a silver for':; use <uie full quart of the very best pure 
cider vinegar to ihree pints of sugar; boil to a thin syrup, then 
skim and ;Mld fruit; spice with whole cloves and cinnamon bark 
to laste. Add spice to sugar and vinegar, and boil apples in this 
five minutes, pit in a jar. If necessary, in a few da3's pour off 
this liquor and boil down thicker; this is the formula for any fruit 
pickles. — Mrs. J. A. Brown 



1 14 BKST RECEIPTS 



WATERMELON. Slice the watermelon about one and one- 
half inches wide, cut off the outer rind and the inner part back to 
the solid. Cut the strips two inches long-, the thicker you can 
have your pickles the more solid and brittle they are, cover with 
salt water and boil until tender enoug-h to pierce with a broom 
straw. To one cup of vineg-ar, add three cups of sug-ar and one 
tablespoon each of whole cinnamon and cloves, let boil five minutes 
When melon is cooked drain a few moments and add to vinegar, 
let boil ten minutes; put in jar. This amount of syrup ought to 
make two quarts of pickles. Syrup should l)e turned off and heat- 
ed twice before cold weatner. More pickles may be added at any 
time if the above directions are folli.weil and all "the S3'rup is heat- 
ed ag"ain; alwavs put the fresh made pickles in the bottom of the 
jar.— C. M. P. 

GREEN CUCUMBER PICKLES. Take nice, sua!', gie.n 
cucumbers and pack them in a clean jar, pDur ever {'■ vir ;i weak 
scalding' brine; made with one-half teacup salt lo t\\ • ([uarts i)f 
water; do this each alternate day until pickles have ueen scalded 
three times, drain, scald vinegar, pour over hot, prepare each lot 
of pickles this wa^- until you have all you wii-h for winter use; then 
take fresh vineg^ar, add one teacup sug"ar to every two quains vine- 
g-ar^ also two tablespoons each of cloves, cinnamon — whrde or the 
essence; scald all tog-ether, pour over the pickles after thev have 
been well drained. Pickles prepared this wav will keep a vear. — 
Mrs. F. S. Plumb 

ONIONS. One peck of small onions, pour over boiling- wat- 
er to cover, peel, cover with brine made with one-half cup of salt to 
a g-allon of water, let stand twenty-four hours, drain, cover with 
the same amount of brine, stand another twenty-four hours, change 
ag-ain and stand another twent3'-four hours, drain dry, put into two 
quart ^lass cans, scald one g-allon vineg-ar, add two tablespoons of 
whole black pepper, two tablespoons sug-ar, two cents worth- root 
g-ing-er to be broken before using-, two tablespoons allspice, lump of 
alum the size of a hazel nut, boil these all tog-ether with the vine- 
g-ar, and pour boiling- hot over the onions; screw on the top and 
you have pickles lit for a king-, will keep indefinitely. — Mrs. A. R. 
Coleman 

AVATERMELON. Peel g-een from rind of a medium sized 
melon, also all the core, cut in four inch long- strips, soaK' over 
ntg-ht or twelve hours in a brine made from one teaei.psalt to one 
g-allon of water, the rinds should be covered w-itli the .;riiie. drain, 
cook in clear water until you can thrust a t othpick throug-h them 
easily, have ready another g-ranite or porcelain kettle v. ith two 
quarts of vinegar and one cup of sug-ar, boiling- hot, dip out with a 
skimmer, dip out into a colander the melon rinds, then put them 
in hot vineg-ar, boil five minutes, put in a spoonful each of cloves 



BEST RECEIPTS 115 



and cinnamon essence, let boil; take out into g^lass cans, when cool 
put on top, set in a cool dark place, when the pickles are put into 
the cans there must be enoug-h vineg-ar put in with them to cover; 
these made this way will keep all winter unless you eat them be- 
fore. — Florence Nelson. 

SWEET APPLE. Steam seven pounds pared and cored 
sweet apples two pints vineg"ar, four pounds lig^ht sugar brown. Put 
in a thin muslin bag" one teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon, and nut 
meg; put these ing^redients into a g^ranite or porcelain kettle, let 
boil, while hot pour over the apples which have been steamed 
enoug-h so that a toothpick will penetrate them easily, put them in- 
to an earthen jar while hot. — Mrs. J. E. Van Patten. 

CARROT. Clean carrots well with brush, scrape otf the skin, 
boil in salted water until tender. Dressing: one cup of vineg^ar, 
two tablespoons sugar, boiled until sug^ar is dissolved, slice the car- 
rots leng-thvvise if large four times, if small twice. Pour the dress- 
ing- over them, let stand. Very nice when cold. String- beans are 
very nice fixed the same way. — Mrs. M. W. Eldridg-e. 

MUSTARD. One peck cucumbers, one quart small onions, 
put with the cucumbers and pour a weak brine scalding- hot over 
them, cover and let stand twelve hours, pour off the brine and add 
a sufficient amount of weak vinegar to cover, add one teaspoon of 
powdered alum to the vineg-ar, cover and let stand twenty-four 
hours; then scald the onions in water to which some salt has been 
added. Drain both cucumbers and onions and put in jars dividing- 
onions equally w^ith cucumbers; put one g-allon of vinegar (^ white 
wnne is best) on to boil, add to this one pound of lig'ht brown sug-ar, 
mix tog-ether one-half pound ground mustard, and one cup of flour, 
wet with cold vineg-ar, and add it to the cold vineg-ar; let boil five 
minutes, pour over the pickles in the jar and seal immediatelv. 
—Mrs. Hattie Kurd. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES WITHOUH VINEGAR. Soak cu- 
cumbers in water over nig-ht. First in the jar to be used put a 
layer of g-rape and cherry leaves and dill. Then a layer of cucum- 
bers, alternate these layers until jar is full. Fill with salt water 
somewhat strong-er than is used in cooking- veg-etables; put on a 
weig-ht. They will be ready for use in two weeks but will not keep 
throug-h the winter. — Mrs. Paul Fie Dig-. 

CUCUMBER. Place in jar very small cucumbers, with small 
onions and a few roots of horse radish, sprinkle with salt, pour 
over boiling- water; next day drain and pour over boiling- vinegar 
to which has been added a tablespoon of sug-ar; repeat latter pro- 
cess everv three days, for one month. During- this time new cu- 
cumbers may be added. — Mrs. Kate Powers. 

SALAD OIL PICKLES. Cut one hundred cucumbers into 



116 BEST RECEIPTS 



thin slices, salt down for three oi' four hours, then drain off all 
liquid; mix with the cucumbers three pints of small onions sliced 
thin, one-half cup whole pepper, one cup mustard seed, one cup 
celery seed; dissolve a teaspoon of powdered alum in vineg'ar, add 
two cups of Italian salad oil, mix well with the pickles; cold vineg'ar 
to cover. These pickles will keep well in open jar.— Mrs. H. T. 
Thompson. 

EASY MADE. Gather young* cuci.mbers of uniform size wash 
well and put into gMass jars, covered t.^ht, then bring- g-ood vine- 
gar to a boiling- point, turn over the cucumbers and seal. 

MIXED. Three hundred small cucumbers, four g-reen pep- 
pers sliced line, two larg-e or three small cauliflowers, three heads 
of white cabbag-e shaved line, mix larg-e onions sliced, one larg-e 
root of horse raddish, one quart g-reen beans cut one inch long-, 
one quart g-reen tomatoes sliced; put the mixture in strong- brine 
twenty-four hours, drain three hours; then sprinkle over one 
fourth pound black and one fourth white mustard seed, also one 
tablespoon black g-round pepper, let it come to a g-ood boil in vine- 
gar enough to cover it, adding a little alum; drain again and when 
cold mix in une-half pint of ground mustard, cover the whole 
with good cider vinegar. — Mrs. J. E. Reilly. 

BEANS. Cook string beans until tender in salt water; put in- 
to jars. To a scant quart of vinegar use a large tablespoon of 
white mustard and two-thirds cup of sugar; v/hen this is boiling 
turn over beans and seal jar. — Mrs. Enoch Oldham. 

BEANS. One gallon of beans, one g-allon of vinegar, one ounce 
of cloves, one ounce allspice, one-fourth pound of black pepper, one 
p )und of brown sugar. Boil beans in salt water until tender, put 
in a jar and scald the vinegar and spices, then pour over and re- 
peat next dajs and again if necessary. — Mrs Dixon. 

RIPE TOMATOES. After washing prick them with a fork 
and place in the jar; use vineg-ar enough to cover (now turn this 
out again as it must be boiled). For two gallons of pickles use 
tliree cups of sugar, a large tablespoon each of whole cloves and 
cinnamon, add to vinegar; boil these ingredients and let them cool 
before pouring over tomatics; seal up and in two weeks they are 
readv for use. — Mrs. En oh Oldham. 

TOMATO CATSUP. Four quarts of strained tomato juice, 
four tablespoons of salt, c)ne "f blaclc pepper, four of ground mus- 
tard, one of allspice, one teaspoon each of cloves and red pepper, 
one pint of cider vineg-ar; cook one hour, stir often. — Mrs. Fairbank 

CHILI SAUCE. Twelve large g-reen tomatoes, four green 
peppers, four large onions, two tablespoons of salt, two tablespoons 
of sugar, one teaspoon cinnamon, three cups of vinegar; chop in- 
gredients line and boil one hour and a half.^ — Mrs. J. W. Hicks. 



BEST RECKIPTS 117 



CHILI SAUCE. Twelve larg-e ripe tomatoes, three g-reen 
peppers, two onions, two tablespoons of salt, half cup sug-ar, one 
tablespoon cinnamon, three cups vineg^ar; chop tine then add vine- 
g-ar, sugar, salt and cinnamon; boil one and one-half hours. — Mrs. 
E. B. Hill. 

YELLOW CHOW CHOW. One quart g-reen tomatoes, (cut 
fine all the ing^redients, do not chop) one quart cucumber pickles 
(small ones), one quart ripe cucumber pickies, one quart cabbag^e 
and cauliflower (one-half of each), one quart onions, six g^reen pep- 
pers, put all in a crock and pour boiling- hot brine over it and let 
stand twenty-four hours; three quarts vineg-ar, six tablespoons 
dry mustard, one teaspoon red pepper, one cup brown sug-ar, one 
cup of flour stir this wnth part of vineg^ar, ounce of tumeric, boil all 
this dressing- tog-ether, pour off the brine and pour over the mix- 
ture boiling- hot. Keeps perfectly in a stone crock. ^ — Mrs. (t. A. 
(xibson. 

CLOVER VINEGAR. Put a larg-e bowl of molasses in crock, 
and pour over it nine bowls of boiling- rain water; let stand until 
milk warm, put in two quarts of clover blossoms and two cups of 
bakers yeast; let this stand two weeks, and strain throug-h a towel. 
Nothing- will mould in it. — Mrs. Col. Darnell. 

TOMATO CATSUP. In making- tomato catsup slice the to- 
matoes into a colander or sieve and sprinkle with a little salt after 
which let stand a few hours to drain. The juice or water will 
drain off and then the catsup will be thick without the "boiling- 
down" process. When drained put the tomatoes into a g-ranite 
kettle, mash anc stir until well healed then put throug-h a colander 
or sieve to remove skins and seeds. Put the pulp on stove, add a 
verv little vineg'ar and a little g-round cinnamon also a little sug-ar. 
Stir until it beg-ins to boil then seal up in pint g-lass cans. This is 
an excellent relish while it is a better color and more easily dig^est- 
ed than the iiig-hly 5?easoned catsups. Do not put too much salt on 
when slio. g- the tomatoes, taste the catsup and see if it needs 
more at thj last. —Sarah W. Whitney, Waterloo, Iowa, proprie- 
tress of the state Woman's Standard. 

SALTED CHERRIES. Put ripe cherries with the skins on 
into jars; to one pint of vineg-ar add two pints water and one table- 
sf)0( n salt. Cover cherries and seal. — Mrs. W. C. Kemper. 

GOOD ATNEGAR. Twenty-five cents worth of brown sugar 
to four gallons of luke warm water, add vineg-ar plant. Set in - 
warm place either in sun or behind the stove.— Mrs. Annie Lias. > 



a 



PICCALILLA. For two g-allons of g-reen tomatoes chopped, 
use one head cabbag-e, eig-ht onions, four peppers, two ounces cel- 
ery seed, two-thirds cup mustard seed; put into a jar and cover 
with vinegar, salt enough to taste well. 



118 BKST RECEIPTS 



GOOD VINEGAR. Take honey combs after honey is remov- 
ed cover with rain water, cook till clear, skim, add water until 
sweet enoug-h (which wili be about as sweet as four teaspoons of 
sug-ar Would make a cup of water. ) Put in keg- and place a bottle 
on top witli mouth over the hole. Set in sun till sour. — Mrs. 
Paul Fiebig-. 

SPICED CURRANTS. Five pounds currants, four pounds 
sug-ar, one pint vineg-ar, four teaspoons each of cloves and cinna- 
mon. Boil three hours. — Grandma Chase. 

(tRAPE CATSUP. Eig-ht pounds of grapes, four pounds of 
sug-ar. one pint of vineg-ar, one-half teaspo jn salt, t)ne teaspoonful 
cinnamon, cloves, allspice, and pepper; boil the g-rapes and put 
throug-h a colander, cook until it sticks. — Miss Nellie Walsmith. 

BEVERAGES 

COI-'FEE. First of all have best coffee 3-0 u can get ground medium 
tine, Mocha and Java mixed half in half is ver^- good. To each pei'son, use 
one dessert spoonful of coffee. Have coffee pot verA* clean, a porcelain or 
earthen one is best. Put the coffee in the pot, put in just enough egg to 
moisten it, stir all well together, add enough cold water to wet it good, 
about one-half spoonful of water to each spoonful of coffee, stir well. Pour 
boiling w-ater over this, as many cups as 3-ou have spoons of coffee. The 
water should lie freshly drawn and fi'eshh' boiled, set on fire and let boil 
up once, v/atch it closeh', remove as soon as it boils, to a w^arm place and 
it is ready to serve. Coffee is like everything else, everything must be good 
and fresh or \a)u cannot get good results. — Mrs. Millard Logan. 

CHOCOLATE. One pint water with one quarter cake of Baker's choc- 
olate, put chocolate in water and boil until dissolved, add one pint of 
sweet milk and let heat, sweeten to taste. This will keep a number of da\-s 
in a cool place, and is better when warmed over. — Mrs. P. M. Casady. 

FRAPPE. One dozen each of oranges,, lemons, bananas, two boxes of 
fresh strawberries, four cups sugar, juice of lemons, and juice of eight or- 
anges, peel eight bananas, run through the fruit squeezer, select out one- 
half box of the very nicest strawberries, run the balance of the berries 
through the fruit squeezer and put these juices all together in an earthen 
jar or dish; add four cups sugar; the remaining four oranges and four ba- 
nanas are peeled and cut in small pieces, the bananas thinly sliced, the'half 
box of selected straw^berries hulled and added w^hole. Stir all together till 
the sugar is dissolved; add just water enough so you will have ten quarts 
of the whole mixture. Cool with cracked ice; this makes enough frappe 
for fifty persons, and is simpH' delicious. Should you wish to make for a 
snudler party, \'OU can of coui"seuse less fruit; when \-ou cannot get straw- 
berries, you can substitute cherries or other berries, sometimes the canned 
berries are tised. — Mrs. C. L. Dixon. 

RASPBERRA" SHERBET. Two quarts raspberries, one cup sugar, 
one and one-half pints of \vater, the juice of a large lemon, one tablespoon 
gelatine; mash the berries and sugar together, let them stand two hours. 
Soak the gelatine in enough cold water to cover, add one pint of water to 
the berries and strain, dissolve the gelatine in one-half pint of boiling water 
add this to the strained mixture and freeze. This is nicest with red rasp- 
berries. — Mrs. J. B. Wilsey. 



BKSr KIX'KIPTS 119 



Preserves Jam and Jellies 



CANNING F^RriTS. When you wish fruit to retain its shape Hke 
strawberries, piekled peaehes. raspl)erries, sweet pickled apples, etc., put 
it into s^'rup made ofsug-ar and water; this thickens them. When you wish 
the skins to be soft as in phinis, c 'ok i..^ fruit well before you put in the 
sugar. Peaches can be peeled like lomatocs if boiling water is poured over 
them and let stand for a few minutes. — Mrs. Whitney, Waterloo, Iowa, 
Proprietor Woman's Staudai'd. 

PLUMS. Put plums on to heat with a atcr to nearly cover them; stir 
genth' a few times so that all will cook. When most of them have cracked 
open, drain off this water and set thc|)lums liack on the stove, and put in a 
little water and plenty of sugar; in this way the skin w^ill be tender and the 
sauce mild. Use the water poured off cither for making jelh- or put it in 
plum butter. If tlic.-?e plums are wished for preserves add as much sugar as 
there are ]ilums; boil until tender and juice is thick enough. If \'ou first 
desire canned plums, add less sugar. — Sarah W. Whitney, Waterloo, Iowa. 

PLUMB BUTTER. Time and material will be saved in making plnm 
butter if you cook or rather heat the plums as above; then drain off the 
water and press the stones out one by one; then you can ptit the rest of the 
plums through a colander ver\' quickly and mash easier than loefore seed- 
ing. Use half and half sugar for butter, and boil until wdien a spoonful is 
taken out on a plate no moisture will run on the plate; this is ver^^ thick 
butter. Watch closely while boiling for it is ea.s\' scorclied and this spoils 
it. -Sarah W. WhitncA', W^aterloo, Iowa 

TAME PLUMS. After w^ashing plums, till glass jars with them, press 
in tight, put covers on loose, set the jars in the wash boiler with cold water 
enough to nearly reach the top of jai's; after the water begins to boil, let it 
boil one hour. Be sure and place under the jars wire arrangements or ex- 
celsior to keep from breaking jars while cooking the fruit. Make a SA'rup 
of Sugar and water, allowing two cups of sugar to one quart of plu:ns; let 
boil until clear and pour over fruit when done. Seal tight. — Mrs. Mastick. 

PEACHES. First jjare them and take out the stones. To every pound 
of peaches, allow one-third of a pound of sugar. Make a thin syrup. Ijoil 
the peaches in the syrup till tender, but not till thcw break; i)ut them in an 
•earthen dish, and pour the sj-rup over them. Put them in a dry cool place 
and let stand tw^o days. Then make a new rich syrup, a lowing three-C[ua:- 
ters of a pound of sugar to one of fruit. Drain the peaches from the first 
syrup, and boil tliem until they are clear, in the last syrup. The first syrup 
must not be added, but may be used for an\^ other pui-pose vou please, as 
it is somewhat bitter. The large, white cling-stones are the best. — C. M. P. 

PEACHES. Make a syrup of one poiuid of sugar to one phit of water; 
let boil ten minutes and skim, then take it off and stand aside to cool; pare 
and halve the peaches, and pack them in jars Yer\- tight; now pour over 



120 BEST RECEIPTS 



them the syrup, put on the covers but do not screw tight; put jars in cold 
Avater and after it begins to boil, let boil fifteen minutes. Be careful not to 
let the jars set flat on the bottom of cooking utensil, put excelsior or some 
of those ware arrangements which can be purchased for that purpose under 
the jars. As jars are taken from water wrap quickly with a cloth to pre- 
vent breaking; fill them up with hot syrup if necessary. Seal. — Mrs. 
Brown. 

STRAWBERRIES. After berries are picked over, add one small cup of 
sxigar to one quart of berries; let them stand five or six hours or even over 
night, chen turn the liquor off and put on to heat; when it is boiling drop in 
the fruit. When this is thoroughly heated through, ]nit in cans and seal 
tight. — Ida Edgerton. 

GOOSEBERRY JELLY. Stem and wash; cook thcgooselierries, covered 
with water, until they crack open; turn into a cloth, raise the cloth over a 
dish let as much juice as will, run out without squeezing; then put the berries 
that are in the cloth into the kettle, with the proportion of one part sugar 
to t\vo parts berries, and boil slowly until thick, stirring frequently so the\' 
will not biirn. — Mrs. Paul Mahler. 

GREEN APPLE JELLY. After peeling apples, put on to cook with 
enough water to cover; when tender, pour the juice off and strain this very 
carefully; add one-half the quantity' of sugar, and boil rapidly till done, 
whicli can be determined when lifted with a spoon, if it strings or falls in 
threads; another way to tell is, kee]) boiling over a steady fire and w'hen 
jelly is done, it foams and rises in kettle. This is a test for all jellies. — Ida 
Edgerton. 

GRAPE MARMALADE. Pick from i he stems, cover with water and 
cook; when tender, remove irom stove and when cool press through colan- 
der; add as much sugar as there is pulp, cook slowly for about three hours. 
Will keep in open jar. — Mrs. Roberts. 

BLACKBERRY JAM. Look over carefully, nice fresh blackberries, 
wash well. Take as much sugar as 3^ou have fruit, put it in a granite or 
porcelain kettle, put on just enough water to \\et it, stirring from bottom 
so that it will not burn, skimming often until the sugar is a nice syrup, put 
in the berries, cook for one-half hour or until it is nice and thick, rem.ove 
the scum, when done put in glasses or jars and run melted white wax over 
it after the jam is cold. Anv kiral of fruit can I)l' ])iit up in this wav. — Mrs. 
R. P. Scott". 

CANNED CORN. Cut the corn off the cob, cook in plenty of water. 
To every six quarts of coi'ii add one ounce of tartaric acid dissolved in a 
little hot water; put the acid in while cooking; measure the corn before 
cookmg; to prepare this for the table you should pour off the sour water, 
save it and put on fresh cold water; to a quart of corn, add a small tea-, 
spoon of soda, let it stand a few minutes before cooking; while cooking, 
put in a teaspoon of sugar; there is da,nger of getting too much soda. If 
j'ou should and the corn turns yellow, pour back some of the sour water, 
and it will turn white again; a tablespoonful will likely be enough. — Mrs J. 
P. Carpenter, Mt. Pleas^ant, la. 

BLACKBERRIES. Prepare the jars, by scalding both jars and covers; 
have them wet on the outside as well as the inside when the hot fruit is put 
in. Pick over and wash the berries, allow three-fourths cup of sugar, to 



BEST RECEIPTS 12 1 



one quart of fresh berries, if early blackberries (called by some dewberries,) 
one-half cup of sugar is sufficient; put the sugar in granite preserving kettle 
to heat, moisten it with water, when it is boiling rapidly, add the berries, 
J allow two quarts of fresh berries for one quart after the}" are canned; after 
it begins to boil, begin dipping into the can; have this setting in a dish of 
water, or on a wet cloth; have fire enough under the fruit, so that when 
the can is full, all the berries have Ijoiled well for over one minute; seal 
tight immediately. Turn the cans over to insure no leakage. ^C. M. P 

PIE PLANT. Prepare as for pies, cooking ver}' tender and fine, then 
can. If you wish to can it cold, do not cvit the stalks in small pieces, or 
peel it, but put them in the jars, jiour on cold water, seal. — Mrs. T. An- 
drews. 

PIE PL.VXT j.WI. Wash and cut in inch lengths, without removing 
the skin. To one pound of pie plant add three-fourths pound sugar, put it 
into a jar (don't stew), let stand twenty-four or forty-eight hours, then 
cook one hour, or until as thick as desired. Use ginger root or lemon to 
flavor. A very little of the root is required. — Mrs. Cowie. 

RED RASPBERRY JAM. After looking over the berries carefully, 
mash lightly; take one cup of fruit, two-thirds cup granulated sugar, pvit 
together in granite iron or any good preserving kettle, never tin; stir thor- 
oughU', place on stove being careful to stir often; after boiling about thirty 
minutes take a small amovmt in a sauce dish and try with a spoon, if the 
juice begins to thicken it is done, yet it might be as well to try a little 
sooner; (as much depends u])on the ripeness of the fruit, ) if boiled too long 
it will not retain a prett\' bright color; put in small glass jars and seal; it 
is Ijest covered tighth' in glasses; never keep in damp cellar. This recei]it 
can be used in making an^' other lierry jam, or by leaving the fruit whole 
will make good preserves. — Mrs. D. S., Ling. 

GOOSEBERRY JAM. After picking over berries, put twelve cups of 
fruit on stove with two cups of water, cook until very soft; then strain 
through a sieve, add six cups of sugar, cook until dark reddish brown.- 
For a change \"Ou can use cinnamon or any spice |jrcferred. — Mrs. P. B. 
Peters. 

OR.WGE JELLY. One box of gelatine, onecup of cold water, let stand 
fifteen minutes; add one quart of boiling water, stir until smooth; to one 
cup of sugar add the juice of one lemon and three oranges; put in a cloth 
and strain, but do not squeeze; add to other ingredients. Pour in mold, 
set on ice. — Mrs. Mary Smith, Philadelphia, Penu. 

CURR.IXT JELLY. Four quarts fresh currants, (not too ripe; ) pick 
from the stems and wash; cover with water and add a pint of water be- 
, sides; cook about fifteen minutes, strain through a cheese cloth, ( but do 
j not squeeze or your jelly will be cloudy. ) Take equal parts of juice and su- 
gar, boil twent}' minutes, have a pan ready with an inch of cold water in 
j » it; put glasses in the water and jjour jelly in slowh'. — Mrs. J. W. Tinsley. 

j DRIED FRUITS. Nearly as good as canned fruit. After the fruit has 

I been washed, put in warm water in a granite dish or earthen jar, where it 
will keep hot but not boil, for twenty-four hcmrs. Let it boil fifteen or 
twenty minutes, adding a cup of sugar to a quart of fruit, more or less, ac- 
i cording to the tartness of the fruit. When cooking prunes, add at the boil- 
Ij ing time a few cloves or a teaspoon of clove essence, and one lemon to a 
I pound of fruit. Dried apples put through a colander with a little lemon 



132 BEST KECKIPTS 



added are very j^ciod. Dried peaches can easily have the skins slipped oiT, 
after soaking i'or an hour in hot water; treat in same manner as other 
dried fruits, or spice as follows: At the boiUng time add one cup vinegar, 
one cup sugar, one teaspoon of whole cloves or clove essence, to one pound 
peaches; boil one-half hour. 

GRAPES. Take nice fairgrai:)es on the stems, wash carefully, and i)lacc 
in glass jars; turn on them boiling water, and let stand till the water be- 
gins to turn pink; now turn water off grapes; then have ready a rich boil- 
ing syrup of white sugar and water; turn on the grapes till covered then 
seal tight.— Mrs. O. H. Sticknev. 



CONFECTIONARY 



CREAM CANDY. The wliites of two eggs beaten to a stift'froth, 
enough powdered sugar to make it .stift' enough to mold into cakes the size 
of chocolate creams, flavor with one tal^lespoon of wintergreen or any 
preferred flavor — mold into cakes and ])ut one-half English walnut meats 
on top. Stand aside for two hours or longer to harden. — Mrs. C. B. 
Brownslow. 

MAPLE CREAMS. Two cups brown sugar, three-fourths cup sweet 
milk, lum]3 butter size of an egg, one-half teaspoon any kind of prelerrtd 
flavcn-ing; boil all together fifteen minvitcs; remove from the fire and beat 
until creamy, pour onto buttered plate and smooth down; stand aside to 
harden, cut into squares. — M. P. and L. L. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGES. Four squares Baker's chocolate, four cups 
sugar, cup sweet milk, butter size of an egg; put the milk" on the fire, add 
the sugar, and chocolate sliced; when this boils add butter, boil all ten 
minutes, then remove from fire, add one-half teaspoon vanilla, and beat 
until the consistency of thick cream; then pour on buttered plates to cool, 
cut in small stjuares and eat. — Grayce Houck. 

MAPLE SUGAR FUDGES. Take one cake of maple sugar, one and one- 
half cups sweet cream, butter size of walnut, about one-half pint chopped 
nuts — Almonds; cook all together until string}', then take off stove and 
beat until cold; pour in greased plates, put in cool place. Some use flavor. 

VINEG.\R CANDY. Two cups of granulated sugar, three-fourths cup , 
of vinegar, one-fourth cup o! water, butter size of an (igg, one teaspoon 
of vanilla; boil tmtil it hardens when dropped into cold water; then pour 
on buttered tins to cool and pull. — Elra Reynolds. 

FUDGES. Two cups of granulated sugar, one cup milk, one small 
square cake ol Baker's cliocolate, butter the size of an egg, one teaspoon 
of vanilla; boil sugar and milk together until it hairs; then add butter and 
chocolate and let boil up once; take from the fire, add vanilla and beat 
co!-s!.antl\' with egg beater until it Ix'gins to thicken. Have ready \'our 
buttered plates, pour in quicklv; when about half cold take a knife and cut 
in squares. — Bessie Tinslev. 



BICST RECEIPTS 123 



A SIX COURSE DINNER 
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, Pres. Nat. A. W. S. A. 

COURSE ONE 

CELERY SOUP. One qiiart milk, one tablespoon biitter, three even 
tablespoons iioiir, one pint water, three roots of celery, piece of onion, one 
egg, salt and pepper to taste. Cut the celer_v into small pieces, using all 
the tops and the root; cover with a pint of water, boilthirt}' minxitcs, press 
through a colander; put milk into a double boiler, add the water and celery 
pi'essed through the colander, also the onion and one bay leaf; rub the but- 
ter and flour together and stir into the hot souj), stirring until it thickens, 
add salt and pepper, remove the onion and stir in a well beaten egg. Serve 
immediately. 

COURSE TWO 

CHEESE COQUILLES. Six tablespoons grated cheese, one cup milk, 
two tablespoons butter, one teaspoon corn starch, four eggs, salt and pep- 
per. Heat the milk (with a pinch of soda,) thicken the corn starch and 
Stir in the eggs thoroughly beaten; while hot add butter, pepper, salt and 
cheese; beat well and pour into greased baking shells; bake in a quick oven 
about fifteen minutes or until light brown. Serve as a separate course 
with daiut\' lettuce sandwiches. 

COURSE THREE 

STUFFED PEPPERS. Cut oft' the stem end of the green peppers and set 
aside; remove the seeds and middle portion. Prepare a force meal bv chop- 
ping ver\' line aii3' cold meat on hand, lamb, veal or chicken prepared and 
mixed with bread crumbs, which have been thoroughly dried in the oven 
and rolled fine with a rolling pin; season highlv with salt and tomato 
catsup; use no pepper. Stuff the peppers with the preparation, replace the 
ends wiiich have iDcen removed and bake in a quick oven for twenty min- 
utes or j^alf hour, These may be served as a separate course or with beef- 
steak or roast beef. 

THE DINNER PROPER. COURSE FOUR 

ROAST TURKEY OR CHICKEN. The amatuer cook will succeed 
better if she will prepare the turkey for baking, and then steam it thor- 
ough^ in a large steamer; it should be steamed until the flesh begins to 
crack away from the leg bones; it ma^' then be put into the oven or set one 
side and baked the next day. This process prevents the meat from becom- 
ing dr\' and juiceless. The force meal should be carefully made, but if this 
i-eceipe is followed stricth', it will never be heavy or indigestible. Dry stale 
bread in the oven until it is crisp and hriixi, : . :. :. . wiin ;. : •: .i.ng i,iii; mix. 
equal quantity chopped apples, Mdd, (for a uagv; turkey,) one cup grated 
cheese; season with salt, pepper and thyme; sage' ma\' be used but the 
flavor is not so delicate; summer savory is quite as good for the purpose as 
thyme. Pick, w^ash and dry the turkey, stuff' well both cavities, sew the 
skin in shape, fastening the legs and wings in place w-ith skewers and all is 
ready. When steamed rub the skin with salt and butter and bake. The 
"giblets" nias' be chopped and added to the gravy or the\' may be added 
with force meal if prepared. 

POTATOES A LA PYRAAIID. Alash a suflicient quantity of potatoes 
to supph' one meal; season as usual with salt, pepper, butter and milk; 



124 BEST RECEIPTS 



while wiinn make into little pyramids. I^'onns may be used or it can be 
done successfully with a knife; dip the knife in cold water if it sticks. When 
shaped, paint with the well beaten yolk of an egg and bake until they area 
golden brown. 

FRIED EGG PLANT. Cut the egg plant after peeling, into round sli- 
ces abovtt one-eighth of an inch in thickness. Dip each slice into a beaten 
e^g, diluted with water in equal parts, and seasoned with salt and pep- 
per. Then dip into finely rolled bi-eatl crumbs. Have fat on the stove as 
for doughnuts, test with a bit of bread to discover when hot enough to 
use. Fry the slices until brown. Serve as a side dish with meat, covering 
each slice with a generous sprinkling of tomato catsup. 

CORN PUDDING. Six cars young corn, two eggs, one-half pint milk, 
salt and ])epper. Cut the corn from the cob, mix with the yolks of the 
eggs thoroughly beaten, season well with salt and pej^per, add milk, stir- 
ring thoroughly. Butter a ])udding dish lightly and stir in the mixture, 
having added the whites of the eggs the last thing. Bake from forty min- 
utes to an hour. Serve with meat as a side dish. 

COURSE F!VK 

SALAD. Boil small beets. Fashion into baskets with a sliar]) knife, 
removing the middle. Cho]j celery very fine, mix well with salad dressing, 
and stuff the beets with the mixture, place upon a dainty lettuce leaf, or- 
namenting with tiny, fancy shapes, cut from slices of boiled beet. .\ spoon- 
ful of mayonaise dressing placed upon the side will l)e relished by most 
peoi^le. 

MAYONAISE DRESSING. Yolks of two eggs, one cu]i oil, two table- 
s])oons lemon juice, two tablespoons vinegar, one teas )o m s.i 1, 0:10 tea- 
s])()on sugar, one teaspoon mustard, i)inch cayenne. Mix n.ustard, cay- 
enne, salt and sugar, in a bowl: arid yolks and ber.t u ell. Stir ir. the oil, 
a few drops at a time at first, usir.g an egg beater. As the mixture tliick- 
ens, add oil and lemon juice or vinegar alternately until all is i^c.l. The 
mixture should be stiff enough to hold its shape. If the^oil is kept u])on ice 
for some time before using, it will bring the result more quickly. 

coiTKSK six 
PINEAPPLE PUDDING. Cut from slices of stale bread with a small 
biscuit cutter, a quantity of shapes. Dip these in melted butter, line a pud- 
ding dish with them, letting each round rest upon the next. Cover the 
bottom as well as the sides. Fill with pineapple, either fresh or canned, 
saving the juice for the sauce. Cover the top with more pieces and bake in 
a cpiiek oven, until the bread is a delicate brown. The pudding should turn 
out upon a platter, keeping its shape. The juice may be diluted with 
water, thickened with a little corn starch and served as sauce. If fresh 
pineapple is used it .should first be stewed with sugar. Peaches or a])])les 
may be used in the same way. 

COFFEE. For each person use a tablespoon oi ground coffee. Beat 
an (.'gg, add an equal amount of cold water. Pour two tablespoons of 
the mixture upon the ground coffee, which has been ])iaced in the pot. 
Shake well and pour over it a cup of Ix.iling water to each spoonful of 
coffee. Let the coffee come to a boil and set u])on the back of the stove. 

CHEESE CRACKERS. These may be served with coffee at f ■ clo.se 
of dinner, or with salad. Use brittle salt crackers, square or oblong, Iv.t- 



BI-:ST RKCKIPTS 1 _' 



ter well, sprinkle well with grated eheese, to whieh a good shake oie^.v- 
enne pepper has been added. Place in the oven just long enough to melt the 
cheese. Serve hot. 

Menu For Afternoon Tea 

First Course: Ham salad on round slice of tomatoes, chopped olive 
sandwiches, cheese straws, water. 

Second Course: Fruit salad served in orange cups, salted wafers. 

Third Course: Cherrx- juice drink, cake. 

Menu Number Two 

First Covtrse: Fresh unhulled strawberries, powdered sugar, water. 

Second Course: Chicken salad on lettuce leaves, plain white and brown 
bread, butter, tea, cold ham. 

Third Course: Ice cream, cake. 

[Menu Number Three 

First Course: Salmon salad, potato balls, bread, butter, tea or choco- 
late. 

Second Cotirse: Cake, fresh fruit, water. 

Menu Number Four 
First Course: Chicken and celery salad, warm rolls, butter, coffee, cold 
tongue. 

Second Course: Rich canned sauce, cake, cream puffs. 
Third Course: Ice cream, macaroons, candies. 

THE GIBSON SUPPLY CO. 



IVlTtNUFKCTURERS OF THE 

Gibson's Celebrated iioi)eltie$ 

Ladies Adjustable Spring Collar 
Ladies Hat Fasteners 
Ladies Skirt Supporters 
Meta Iine«^ -> =^ =^ ^ 

Sold By MRS. LYMAN HILL, SHELDON, IOWA 



126 BEST RECEIPTS 



GRANDPA'S 
FAVORIT 
PILE 

REMEDY 



Gives Instant Relief for 

Piles^ Hemorrhoids^ 

and All Rectal Troublest**^^^*^ 



W, L. AYRES, Sheldon, Iowa 



IMCST K!<;Cl';iFTS 137 



HOME REMEDIES 

Emkkgkxcv Non Alcoholic Remedies 

We hear much al;)out "tiding people over" after exhaustive disease sueh 
as Pevers, Pnetxmonia, Diarrhoea, ike with "brandy, whiskey or wines." 
The objeet to be obtained being this, viz.: to propel a greater quantity of 
l)lood to different parts of the bodv so that the various functions are there- 
by peiibrmed more satisfactorily. Now what besides brand}' or whiskey- 
will do this, and thus save the danger lurking in their use? 

1st. Hot water with a few grains of Cayenne Pepper. 

2nd. Hot water, half a cup or less: Carbonate of Ammonia, 20 grains. 

3rd. Hot water, Vs or V2 cup; Aqua Ammonia, 8 drops. 

•ith. Hot water, Va or V2 cup; Aromatic Spirits of Ammonia, 20 drops. 

Bither of these fed hot in teasjioonful doses every 2 to 5 minutes, will 
r illy as surely as brand}^ or whiskey. 

Ln extreme cases give a large, hot enema. If necessar\^ to prolong a 
stimuuint, these ma}- be safely continued for hours, but usually their use 
is saspended-as the patient rallies. Food is then required. In place of the 
ol.i-fcishioned brandy mixture, egg-nog, panada, etc. give hot milk, hot 
beer" tea, or coffee unsweetened, made with hot milk instead of water. 
These will actually support the strength and rally the patient likewise. 

Cramps in the Stomach. Homeopathic Tincture of Coloeynth, 3 
drops; water, % glfiss, mix, give teaspoonfuU every 10, 20 or 30 minutes 
till better. 

Where there is nausea, rejecting everything, then apph^ hot compresses 
to stomach and give hot enema, composed of soap-suds and 1 or 2 table- 
spoons of Castor or Sweet oil. Keep extremities warm. Chloroform also 
may be inhaled. 

For Palpitation. Immediate and permanent relief ma}^ be obtained 
by taking soda or vichy water. 

To strengthen the heart where there is i^ain in that organ. Homeopa- 
thic Tincture of (Cactus, 5 drops; water % glass. Take a teaspoonful every 
1") minutes, half hour or hour. 

Heart Failure. Hot compresses over the heart with hot and cold 
compresses to spine between the shoulders, in alteration, every 2 or 3 min- 
utes, vigorous massage of limbs and heat to the feet. 

A few grains of Cayenne pepper in one tablespoonful of water will start 
action of the circulation in heart failure. 

FAiNTix(i. Place patient on the back, head low, elevating feet if pos- 
sible. Hot applications to back of neck and over the heart, Avith cold to 
to]) of head and inhalations of Ammonia. Loosen clothing but do not 
give whiskey, fresh air instead. Patient will revive. 

The a])ove applications are likewise most excellent in convulsions of 

Stimulants. Where a stimulant is needed for indigestion, riatulence, 
pain in the stomach or for emergencies the following remedies should be 
kept constanth' on hand in ]ilacc of brand^^ gin or whiskey. 

No. 1. Ammonia Carbonate, 20 grains; Pulverized Cardamon Seed, 

1 small teaspoonfvxl; water, 2V2 tablespoonfuls; Gh^cerine, 1 tablespoonful. 

Place the Cardamon powder in an earthen cup or bowl and pour the 



128 



BEST RECEIPTS 



21/2 tablespooufuls boiling Avater upon it, cover tl^•ht and when cool add 
the other mgredtents. Dose: U, tablespoonful everv half hour or hour 
lessen dose as patient improves. 

Xo 2. Ammonia Carbonate, 20 grains; Cinnamon water, 3 table- 
spoonfuls; Glycerine, 1 tablespoonful. Mix. Dose: V, tablespoonful re- 
peated ever.v ha f hour or hour. A few grains of Cayenne pepper mav be 
added to both the above if desired. 

_ To M.IKE CAMPHOR Water. Put an ounce of Camphor gum broken 
mto 1 pint water. Bottle and shake everv dav. This will i.^tke a stron-' 
saturated sokition of camphor. Dose: 5 to 15 drops in hot 0/ old wate'r' 
\ aluable for Cramps, Cholera and Colds or as a stimulant. Renew water 
as tised. 

Cholera Morbus, Monthly Cramps, Etc. Saturated solution of 
Camphor, 4 drops; Aqua Ammonia, 4 drops; hot water, 1/2 cup+ul Take 
all m 1 dose, repeat as needed. Hot enema will be helpful, cover warm so 
as to perspire. 

fnl- J'^if ■''^f/V?^if ''-'^^° ^.^V' ^^'-^'^^«- Spirits of Ammonia, 1 teaspoon- 
ful, Tabesalt, 2tablespoontuls; water, 1 quart. Applv with compresses 
to all in lammations, fevers, brain fever, swelling with inflammations, pain 
serpent bites stings of insects, rheumatic pains, gout, lanieuess, pneumonia! 
Also use tor bathing head, surface, etc. in place of alcohol. " 

Avoid the so-called nonalcoholic summer-drinks. Tliev are all dan<^er- 
ous, as they develop alcohol in a few days bv fermentation.-Laura''M 
vvngnt, Al. D., t2 \V. lOoth St., N. Y. 

Treatment For Burns. Cover with common baking soda or 
flour, and should the burn be very bad, at the end of one hour pour on 
sweet oil ana bmu cloth over. 

Reliee For Whooplxg Cough. One-half pint rum and one-half o-ar- 
hc; put on spine two or three times a dav. " 

A Go ;>D Preventative of Dyspepsl^. Do not eat between meals- 
eat slowly, chewing the food well. Do not " eat anv kind of med 
foods, pie, pork, neither drink coffee nor tea. It would be better to stop 
eaLing before you have quite enough than to eat too much. 

Cure For Bilious Colic. Drink a cup of as hot wafer as possible, 
and applv to the bowels and stomach a cloth wrong out of as hot water 
as possible with a dry flannel over it; or a hot water bag This will ^ixn 
almost instant relief ^^ * 

For HoA^iSENESs. Wrap the throat in a cloth flolded several times 
and wrung out of cold water, outside of this put a drv flannel. Do this on ' 
going to bed; ciien squeeze the juice from one lemon", sweeten with honev 
or sugar and take a teaspoon frequently, or eat half of it on goino- to bed 
and the rest m the morning. t. - » "-^ 'Jcu, ^ 

_ Cold In Thic HivAD. Procure from your druggist crushed cubeb ber- 
ries, roll in paper or put into a clean clay pipe and smoke, closing the 

smol^1;el-^'-"^t',H"''°^'' °"V^V-°"g^^ tl^e nose. The best time to 
smoke these is just before going to bed, as you must stav out of a draft for 
at least twenty minutes after smoking. This is also a very good ixMuedv 
forcatarrah, ithasbeen known to cure cases of c^itarrah bv smokin- 
every night for a month; smoke each night one^half pipe fifll. 



BEST RECEIPTS 12V 



To Cure Hoarseness. To the white of an egg, add two tablespoons 
of white svigar or honey. Take one teaspoonful every half hour until re- 
lieved. 

For Extreme Cold In The Head. Grate a fresh nutmeg, put a pineh 
of this powder in each nostril, draw as far up in the head as possible; expel 
and repeat process with fresh powder until relieved, and the head is clear. 

For Dysentry. Dose for an adult is one teaspoon of ginger, mixed 
with the well beaten white of one egg. 

For Sprain Or Bruise. Add one tablespoon of turpentine to white of 
a well beaten egg, apply. 

To Relieve Pain. Bring to a boil one pint of strong vinegar, in which 
is one-half cup salt; wet a flannel put over painful place, cover to keep warm. 

B.\TH. There is nothing so invigorating or as good a preventative 
against taking cold, as the use of plenty of salt in the bath water. Soda 
in the bath water has a cooling sensation. 

Cure For Hog Cholera. Three bushels wood ashes, one-half bushel 
slacked lime, one-fourth bushel salt, one bushel charcoal, five pounds sul- 
phur, three pounds Spanish brown, one and one-fourth pounds saltpetre, 
one-half pound of copj^eras; mix this well and keep a little around in the 
troughs.— H. M. Walsmith 

To Cure A Felo.\. Kill a frog, cut open immediately, and thrust the 
finger in while it is warm and vet retains the blood. — Grandma Robinson. 

To Cure Boxe Spavin Ojsi Horse. Kill toads, and while fresh bind on, 
or else put them in grease, and set in the sun until they dissolve, and then 
rub ointment on spavin. — Grandma Robinson. 

To Reaiove Any Foreign Si'bstance F"rom The Eye. Roll a small 
piece of paper between the fingers, place one end in the mouth to moisten. 
Run the moistened point aroimd on the eye-ball and the speck will adhere 
to the pa])er. 



LAUNDRY 

Washing P'luid. Get five cents worth ol dry ammonia, five cents 
worth of salts of tartar, one can of Lewis lye; to these ingredients, add two 
gallons of water. Put in ajar and keep for future use. 

How To Wash, Using this Fluid. Soak the clothes over night; to the 
water in which they are soaked, add one cup of this fluid. In the morning, 
have the water in the boiler well soaped and boihng; wring out the clothes 
and put in boiler, let boil fifteen minutes; take out and ruxi through the 
machine; possiblv there will be some soiled places that will need a little 
rubbing. Suds, rin.'^e nnd dry. — Mrs. Leverage. 

Easy W.\shing. Fill boiler half full of water, add to this one cake of 
Salome shaved fine, then sliave three-quarters of a bar of soap and add to 
the water, add the rest of the bar later in the washing; let the water come 
.to a boil. Wring the clothes through cold water, and put them in the 
boiling suds and let them boil ten minutes, take out and suds through cold 
water and blue in rinse water; colored clothes wash easy through this suds 
little rubbing is required. — Airs. S. S. Bailey. 

Easy Washing. Fill boiler three-fourths full of soft water, or if hard, 
cleanse it before beginning; then add one bar of any good laundry soap, 
three tablespoons of kerosene, two large tablespoons of Nine O'Clock W^ash- 



130 BKST RECKIPTS 



ing Tea; (this is but tive cents a package procurable at grocery stores) let 
the water come to a boil, then add the clothes dr\\ and let them boil rapid- 
ly for fifteen minutes; pound when first pitt in with a tin suction potmder; 
(hardware dealers will make one for about 50c); take clothes out, suds and 
rinse, use salome bluing and clothes will be like snow. Possibly some very 
soiled places will need a little rubbing. Blood stains and mustard stains 
must be removed before boiling the clothes; fruit stains never mind; always 
looking for an eas\- way of washing, this is the easiest I ever iouud. — K. P. 

Easy Washing. Fill boiler with water, shave in a bar of Beats-'em-all 
soap, let water come to a boil; put a few clothes into washing machine and 
rub them ten minutes; wring out, put in boiler, put more into the machine; 
work ten minutes, proceed as before, about three rubbings in the machine 
to one boiler of clothes. When cooked enough in boiler, suds, rinse and 
drj- . Ver\' little if any rubbing is required. The secret is in having the wa- 
ter very hot when put into the machine; few clothes at a time and good 
soap. — Mrs. Brazzell 

To Starch Colored Clothes. Red or black calicoes can be starched 
without looking dingy, if coffee is strained into the starch vmtil it is dark- 
ened; add bluing to the starch for blue calico. 

• Black Lace can be freshened by dipping into cold coffee and ironing 
dr\'-, with warm, not too hot, irons. Black silk can be freshened the same 
way, ironing on the wrong side. 

Bleaching. Let goods stand in water over night, in morning wring 
and hang on the line. Repeat process until as white as desired. 

Bleaching. Three pounds of sal soda, two pounds chloride of lime, 
three gallons of raiji water, put the soda in a vessel and pour the water on 
it; place it on the stove and thoroughly dissolve; after the sal soda is dis- 
solved, put the lime into it. For use: Use one-third of this liquid to two- 
thirds of hot soap suds; all stains and mildew will be removed bv this li- 
quid as the clothes iDleach.— Mrs. W. H. Walsmith. 

To Freshen Black Lace. One-fourth teaspoon gum arable dissolved 
in one-half teacup of water, dd one-half teaspoon black ink; dip lace in and 
squeeze out. Pick out edges and lay between black cotton cloth, and press 
with a hot iron. — Mrs. S. S. Bailey 

If any that are troubled with their feet swelling and aching would get 
ten cents worth of oil of worm wood, and take one-half bucket of warm 
water as hot as can be borne, drop five or six drops of the worm wood in 
it, and soak their feet until water is cold; their feet would feel relieved, and 
they would thank the one who wrote these directions. 

GENERAL INFORMATION 

Lacquor For Silver And Russia Stove Pipes. Grate one-half pound 
beeswax into one quart of benzine, let stand twentj'-four hottrs in a bottle 
closeh' corked, shake well before using, apply with a cotton cloth. This 
put on the silver that is to be packed away for a time, and also on the 
Russia pipe, will keep it from tarnishing and rusting, an^' length of time; 
wlien you wish to use the pipe or silverware, rub with a woolen cloth, and 
3'our pipe or silverware will shine so \'ou can see your face in them. 

How To Clean Hair Brush. Make a solution of common baking so- 
da, one heaping teaspoon to a pint of hot water; di]3 the lirush in, bristles 



BKST KJiCElPTS 131 



down, SO as not to injure the baek. providing yourbrush has a fancy back, 
dip the brush up and down in the water until it is white and clean, rinse 
well in clear water, dr3' bristles down, in sun and air. — Mrs. H. W. Conant 

To Remove Paint From Garments. Take turpentine ahd use a soft 
cloth light color for light goods, dark color for dark goods. Dip the 
cloth in the turpentine, and rub the paint thoroughly, or in other words, 
use plenty of elbow grease. — Mrs. F. A. Buntley 

Wash For The Hands. Fourteen ounces of soft water, two ounces 
of glycerine, tw^o ounces of alcohol, one dram of gum traganeath, two 
drams of cologne, soak gum in water over night, piat it in a glass jar by 
the stove, then add the other ingredients, shake all together, and keep in a 
cool place. Very good for whitening and keeping the hands smooth. — Mrs. 
Etta Chase. 

To Tighten Covers On Fri'it Cans. Tighten covers on cans when 
sealing fruit, Ijy pounding on edge of cover; a three-cornered file is a good 
thing to use, for while one edge is on the cover, the other can be struck eas- 
ily with a hammer. So manv times, when canning fruit, after the can 
is filled and sealed up, if tipped up to try, it begins to sizz. This is very 
l^rovoking when one is hot and tired. It can be remedied by above process. 

To Kill Cabbage Worms. Dissolve a lump of alum about the .size of 
an egg, in one gallon of water. Sprinkle cabbages while sun is shining. 
Repeat process as often as necessary. To make cabbages head, sjirinkle 
with salt.— Mrs. Spangler. 

To Remove GreAvSE From Clothing. Rub spot with a generous 
amount of buck wheat fiour, place a warm iron over flour, heat it well, 
thcri rub hard; when brushed off if grease has not disappeared, repeat 
proces;;. 

Cold Cream. Two ounces each of cocoa Initter, white wax, sperma- 
cetti, oil of sweet almond; melt all cf the first three over a slow fire; re- 
move from the stove and stir in the fourth; beat until cool, and put away 
in small jars; mustard jars are a good size. 

A suds from soap bark will clean the scalp and leave the hair soft and 
clean. So will Dermofoam. 

To Destroy Ants. Wet a sponge in sweetened water, put where ants 
come; when full put into hot water, take out, wet again in sweetened 
water, and so on. 

To clean hair brushes and combs make a suds from common soap bark 
and wash them in it, or use soda. 

To prevent moth from getting into boxes and closets keep camphoj 
gum in them; also let sun and air into closets as much as possible. 

To Take Grease Out or Carpets. Sprinkle thick with buck wheat 
flour, rub hard, then brush off; if spot is not removed, repeat. If weather 
is cold, a warm flat iron will have to beplaeed overtop to warm it and the 
flour. 

' To Wash Silver Ware. Save the water the potatoes were boiled in 
to wash \'Our silver ware. Soap gives silver a pew^ter look. 

F'LOOR Palnt. One ounce of drv glue put into one quart of cold water, 
let stand all night. Boil; when it "comes to a boil stir in one pound of 
yellow ochre. Have the floor very clean and dry; at night go over it with 
this paint while it is hot; the next morning go over the floor again with 
hard oil.— D. H. Moore 



132 BEST RECEIPTS 



To Relieve Coughing. Hold a small potash tablet in the mouth let- 
ting it dissolve slowK'. 

Relief and Cure for Whooping Cough or anv Cough. One cup flax 
seed, one quart water, two lemons, one cake of hone}'; slice the lemons, 
press the honey from the comb; put all the ingredients into a two quart 
granite basin, cook slowlv for half an hour; remove from stove, strain, 
should this be too thick, add water. It shovddbe thin enovigh to be readily 
swallowed; commence to give as soon as child shows symptoms of whoop- 
ing cough, give teaspoonful every tiine after a coughing spell. This has 
been effectively tried, and a child will not cough more than three weeks and 
then not severeh'. Very good also for cough. 

For Neuralgia of Stomach or Bowels. A quantity or red pepper 
the size of a pea drop])ed in a few swallows of milk. This has been known 
to relieve neuralgia of the head and face. Take a few swallows of milk 
without the pepper after taking the milk with the pepper. 

In poaching eggs, add a little vinegar to hot water to set the whites; 
the water shovdd be salted also. 

Tar may be removed from either hands or clothing, by rubljing well 
with lard, and then washing with soap and water. 

Never throw water on burning oil; use flour. 

Cleaning Dress Goons, Carpets, Etc. Two ounces spirits of am- 
monia, two ounces alcohol, ono ounce camphor, one ounce ether, one 
ounce shaved Castile soap, one quart rain water; shake well and apply 
with a brush until spot disappears. — Mrs. McCandless. 

To take out iodine or ink spots, soak in buttermilk for twelve hours. 

To Remove Paint F'rom Window Glass. If the paint is very thick, 
scrape partly ofl" with some sharp article; then scour with common wood 
or cob ashes slightly dam]3ened. Use elbow grease. 

To Exterminate Bed Bugs. Tear paper off from room, sweep the 
floor ver3' clean; then mop the floor with scalding suds in which is plenty 
of lye; put water on thick and while damp, burn one fumigator for a small 
room or two for a large one, closing the room very tight, and let it remain 
forty-eight hours. Fumigators are cheap and can be bought at any drug 
store. If bugs are on beds, set these in the room. No bugs will appear if 
this is done properly. 



FOR FIVE AND TEN CENT ARTICLES 

Go To THE NOVELTY 



INDEX 



i 

I Hj-cad Making ----- 5 to 12 

, Breakfasts and Teas - - 12 to 20 

j Fritters and Croquettes 20 to 22 

I Sandwiches - . . 22 to 23 

I Vegetables - - - - - 23 to 35 

' Cheese and Macaroni - . - - - - - - 35 to 37 

vSoups ------------ 37 to 40 

Eggs ----- 40 to 43 

Fish and Oysters - - - - - - - - - 43 to 48 

Meats - - - 48 to 51 

Salads - - - - - - - 51 to 60 

Cake Making - - - - 60 to 78 

Icings. Fillings and Ice Creams - - - - - - 78 to 83 

Cookies, J unil)les and Doughntits - - - - - - 83 to 90 

Pastry ------------ 90 to 98 

Desserts .----.---.- 98 to 113 

Pickles ----------- 113 to 118 

Beverages ---------- us to 119 

Preserves, Jams and Jellies ------- 119 to 122 

Confectionary - - - - 122 to 123 

A Six Course Dinner 123 to 125 

\ltnu For Afternoon Teas 125 to 126 

Home Remedies 127 to 129 

Laundry - - - 129 to 130 

General Information - - 130 to 132 



I 



SEP 8- 1900 




HYGIENIC 

TOILET REQUISITES^ 



PURE— EFFICACIOUS 



There is onl3' one kind of HYGIENIC Toilet Requisites and the gen- 
uine always bear the a1)ove Trade Mark. These are sold onlv 
through our regularly authorized representatives, or sent prepaid up- 
on receipt of retail price, to any place where we have no representative. 

A FEW LEADERS 

Hygienic Curling Fluid, keeps hair in curl, per bottle, - 50c 
Hygienic Skin Food, prevents and cures wrinkles " - 50c 
H3^gienic Tooth Paste, cleans and preserves the teeth, tube 50c 
Hjx'gienic Hair-gi-ene, eradicates dandruff', gro vv^s hair, bot 75c 
Hygienic Complexion Soap, a pure toilet soap, per box 50c 

Send for circulars describing these preparations and Hygienic Fra- 
grant Balm, Hygienic Toilet Powder; also Perfumes, 
Sachets, Hygienic Tint, Etc., Etc. 



REPRESENTATIVES WANTED EVERYWHERE 

We offer the best inducements to ladies to engage in our work. 
Send for our proposition, enclosing two-cent stamp and stating the 
territory desired. 



HYGIENIC TOILET REQUISITES 

ORIGJ.NATED AND PREPARED ONLY BY 

403 Garden City Block CHICAGO 



m^^ 



1 








i f 



i7)l1 




014 484 920 6 # 



^ COMPLETE 






FURNISHERS 



I I 



fe 



'^ 






SidiixCMV^ " loiia 





^^ 



