


S:^^%% 




IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 




1.0 



I.I 



1^ 

|50 



1^ 

US 



IIM 
IIIIIM 

m 



IIIM 

2.0 

1.8 





1.25 1.4 


1.6 




-4 6" — 




► 



pF^ 



<? 



'W. 






^■^ ^^% 



'/ 




Photographic 

Sciences 

Corporation 




4^ 



^•\ 



^ 




^^ 



-u 



^ 





c\ 



\ 



'^ 



\ 



^ 






<^^ 



O 




\ 



#5 






23 WEST MAIN STREET 

WEBSTER, N.Y. 14580 

(716)872-4503 






^q,^ 






^. 



CIHM/ICMH 

Microfiche 

Series. 



CIHM/ICMH 
Collection de 
microfiches. 




Canadian Institute for Historical Microreproductions / Institut Canadian de microreproductions historiques 



^ 



^ 
O 



V 



©1984 



Technical and Bibliographic Notes/Notes te'jhnlques et bibliographiques 



The Institute has attempted to obtain the best 
original copy available for filming. Features of this 
copy which may be bibliographically unique, 
which may alter any of the images in the 
reproduction, or which may significantly change 
the usual method of filming, are checked below. 



Coloured covers/ 
Couverture de couleur 



D 



Covers damaged/ 
Couverture endommagde 

Covers restored and/or laminated/ 



I I Couverture restaur6e et/ou pelliculde 

□ Cover title missing/ 
Le titre de couverture manque 

□ Coloured maps/ 
Cartes g^ographiques en couleur 

□ Coloured ink (i.e. other than blue or black)/ 
Encre de couleur (i.e. autre que bleue ou noire) 

□ Coloured plates and/or illustrations/ 
Planches et/ou illustrations en couleur 



D 
D 



D 



D 



Bound with other material/ 
Relid avec d'autres documents 

Tight binding may cause shadows or distortion 
along interior margin/ 

Lareliure serr^e peut causer de I'ombre ou de la 
distortion le long de la marge int6rieure 

Blank leaves added during restoration may 
appear within the text. Whenever possible, these 
have been omitted from filming/ 
II se peut que certaines pages blanches ajout6es 
lors d'une restauration apparaissent dans le texte, 
mais, lorsque celj 6tait possible, ces pages n'ont 
pas 6t6 filmdes. 

Additional comments:/ 
Commentaires suppl^mentaires; 



L'Institut a microfilm^ le meiileur exemplaire 
qu'il lui a 6t6 possible de se p rocurer. Les details 
de cet exemplaire qui sont pe Jt-6tre uniques du 
point de vue bibliographique, qui peuvent modifier 
une impgo reproduite, ou qui peuvent exiger une 
modification dans la mdthoda normale de filmage 
sont indiqu6s ci-dessous. 



□ Coloured pages/ 
Pages de couleur 



I I Pages damaged/ 



D 



Pages endommagdes 

Pages restored and/oi 

Pages restaur^es et/ou pellicul^es 

Pages discoloured, stained or foxei 
Pages d6color6es, tachet^es ou piqu^es 

Pages detached/ 
Pages ddtachdes 



I — I Pages restored and/or laminated/ 
I — I Pages discoloured, stained or foxed/ 
I I Pages detached/ 



r~~i Showthrough/ 



Transparence 



Quality of print varies/ 
Qualitd indgale de I'impression 

I I Includes supplementary material/ 



Comprend du materiel supplementaire 

Only edition available/ 
Seule Edition disponible 



Pages wholly or partially obscured by errata 
slips, tissues, etc., have been refilmed to 
ensure the best possible image/ 
Les pages totalement ou partiellement 
obscurcies par un feuillet d'errata. une pelure, 
etc., ont 6t(ls film^es d nouveau de fa9on ^ 
obtenir la meilleure image possible. 



This item is filmed at the reduction ratio checked below/ 

Ce document est filmd au taux de reduction indiqu6 ci-dessous. 



10X 








14X 








18X 








22X 








26X 








30X 




















V 

































12X 



16X 



20X 



24X 



, ■IWp%^ 



32X 



The copy filmed here has been reproduced thanks 
to the generosity of: 

Thomas Fisher Rare Book Library, 
University of Toronto Library 



L'exemplaire fiimA fut reproduit grace d la 
ginArositd de: 

Thomas Fisher Rare Book Library, 
University of Toronto Library 



The images appearing here are the best quality 
possible considering the condition end legibility 
of the original copy and in keeping with the 
filming contract specifications. 



Les images suivantes ont 6t6 reproduites avec le 
plus grand soin. compte tenu de la condi'tion et 
de la nettati de l'exemplaire film^. et en 
conformity avec les conditions du conttet de 
filmage. 



Original copies in printed paper covers are filmed 
beginning with the front cover and ending on 
the last page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, or the back cover when appropriate. All 
other original copies are filmed beginning on the 
first page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, and ending on the last page with a printed 
or illustrated impression. 



The last recorded frame on each microfiche 
shall contain the symbol — ♦- (meaning "CON- 
TINUED"), or the symbol V (meaning "END"), 
whichever applies. 

Mep>*, plates, charts, etc., may be filmed at 
different reduction ratios. Those too large to be 
entirely included in one exposure are filmed 
beginning in the upper left hand corner, left to 
right and top to bottom, as many frames as 
required. The following diagrams illustrate the 
method: 



Les exemplaires originaux dont la couverture en 
papier est imprim6e sont film6s en commencant 
par le premier plat et en terminart soit par la 
dernidre page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration, soit par le second 
plat, salon le cas. Tous les autres oxemplaires 
originaux sont filmis en commenpant par la 
premiere page qui comporte une empr<)inte 
d'impression ou d'illustration ot en terminant par 
la dernidre page qui comporte une telle 
empreinte. 

Un des symboles suivants apparaitra sur la 
dernidre image de cheque microficho, st'lon le 
cas: le symbole -— »- signifie "A SUIVRE' . le 
symbole V signifie "FIN '. 

Les cartes, planches, tableaux, etc., peuvent etre 
film^s A des taux de reduction diff^rents 
Lorsque le document est trop grand pour etre 
reproduit en un seul cliche, il est film^ d partir 
de Tangle sup6rieur gauche, de gauche d droite. 
et de haut en bas, en prenant le nombre 
d'images n^cessaire. Les diagrammes suivants 
illustrent la mdthode. 



1 


2 


3 




1 


2 


3 


^'.4 ■■ 





6 






Hiftte m fMMm 



i 




gjiiim 


H 


H 


iH^ 


_ 






iJhR 


■* 




M 


■lilllHi 


■1 




^HK 


^Z^^^^^^^^H 




1 


iiP 


1 


VmeM 


m 


3 


s 


|^a| 


^^.<i 


vi !^9n 


i 


i] 




IIP 


T!^^!?^:'. 


a 








j 


^B 


BiiiKiBiMgiii 


||ul 


Si 




HJK^^,'' 




i 






■H 


^■^^■1 


im 


^^» 


■Si 


SEP 






f J 




^ 




ntroduction 



^s of this little book is to place in every American 
home tested recipes for plain cooking which will materially contribute 
to the health of the family and make it of such value that it will be in 
daily use. 

The recipes contained herein are the tested recipes of practical New 
England housekeepers for healthful, nutritious foods. 

The other object of this little book is to call the attention of every 
home-maker to our modern cod liver and iron preparation, VINOL, 
which is nov. a patent medicine, but a modernized preparation of cod 
liver oil and iron, making it unexcelled as a tonic and body builder. 



Tliree Reasons ^wliy Vinol 



IS 

Streng' 



nin, To^lic. 



FIRST — Vinol is a real cod liver preparation made from fresh 
cods' livers and their oil. 

SECOND — Vinol contains not only all the medicinal elements of 
cod liver oil, but those of the liver as well — the nauseating, useless 
oil from which we have extracted all the medicinal elements being 
thrown away. 

THIRD — Vinol is deliciously palatable, agreeable to the weakest 
stomach, and contains all the goodness, the soothing, healing, strengthi- 
ening and curative elements of cod liver oil, actually taken from fresh 
cods' livers, with the oil omitted. 

It is for these reasons that VINOL is fast superseding old fashioned 
Cod Liver Oil and Emulsions in the treatment of Coughs, Colds, 
Bronchitis and all Throat and Lung Troubles, and as. a Body-Builder 
for Old People, Delicate Children, Weak, Run-Down Persons, and 
After Sickness. 



i 



> 



\r 



Bread Making 

Use the best flour, it is cheapest in the end. Sift flour for bread 
twice. Part milk and part water is preferable for mixing. If milk is 
used, scald it first, and let it cool to blood heat before using. In winter, 
the water or milk used in mixing raised bread should be lukewarm, and 
if the flour be kept in a cold place warm it before using. In summer 
the water need not be warmed, but the milk should be scalded and 
cooled. Always ;set bread or biscuit to rise in a fairly warm place, 
well covered to exclude air. 

WHITE RAISED BREAD. 

Sift two quarts of flour into a mixing bowl. Rub into the flour 

• two tablespoonf uls of butter or lard until it is fine, like meal ; add 

one tablespoonful of salt and one tablespoonful of sugar. Draw the 

flour to the edges of the bowl leaving a hole in the middle with about 

two inches of flour covering the bottom of the bowl. 

Dissolve thoroughly one cake of compressed yeast in a teacupful of 
lukewarm water, and pour the liquid into the hole in the flour, stir in 
the flour from the edges, adding sufficient lukewarm water or milk 
and water mixed, to knead well. Knead for half an hour, then cover 
to exclude all air, and set to rise. When it is well risen, knead again 
for ten minutes, divide into loaves and put in well greased pans. 
Cover, and let it rise again to the top of the pans. Bake in a mod- 
erately hot oven nearly ah hour. 

Rev. George W. Ruland, of Keene, N.H., says : — •* I have used yotiir 
cod liver preparation VINOL as a tonic, and 1 do not belkve there is 
any other medicine that can equal It. It built me up and strengthened 
liie when run-down and overwoiiced. Vinol has don^ for me more 
than was claimed for it.'* 

QUAKER OATS BREAD. 

One cup Quaker Oats, ^ taViespoonfuI salt, or*^ tablespoonful lard, 
^ cup molasses. 

Pour two cups boiling wat r on to the oats and let stand one hour. 

Then add ^ of a yeastcake dissolved iu ^ cup of warm water. Ad^d 

the molasses and lard and 4.^ or 5 cups of bread flour, naix stiff, let ic 

. rise over night. In the morning knead well and make into loaves. 

Let it rise again and bake in a moderately hot byen. 

TEA BISCUIT. 

Into I pint sifted flour rub i tablespoonful of butter, i tablespoon- 
ful of lard and a little salt. Dissolve i compressed yeast cake in a 
pint of lukewarm water and make a moderately stiff dough. Set in a 
warm place to rise. In about an hour they should be risen, then make 
into biscuits, set to rise again, and bake in a quick oven. When done 
brush over the tops with milk. 

Old Peot>le vatue VInol, because It enriches ttie blood and eremites 
ttreiiffth as notfeh^ else seems to. 



ti. \ 



/ 



M 



^^ 



•Mt 



Why Vinol is better than old 
fashioned preparations of 
Cod Liver Oil (Q* dnulsions* 

No one will dispute the curative value of cod liver oil. 
For centuries it has been recognized as the grandest of all body- 
building agents for wasted human strength and vitality. 

Yet a great deal of good that should have been derived from 
its use has been prevented by the fact that many patients who 
were weakened by disease could not digest the heavy oil admin- 
istered either in its raw form or in an Emulsion, and others would 
not take it on account of its disagreeable odor and taste. 

Now modem science has proved that the oil or greasy part 
has no value whatever either as a medicine or food. 

It appears that the alkaloids, or medicinal elements, of which 
there are about 5fty different kinds found in the cod's liver, 
represent all the tonic, body -building and curative powers of this 
famous old remedy. 

After twenty years study, two eminent French chemists, 
Mourgnes and Gautier by name, discovered a way to separate 
these alkaloids, or medicinal elements from the oil, and gave to 
modem medicine all the valuable part of this great remedy 
unencumbered by the useless oil. 

A preparation containing all the medicinal curative elements 
of cod liver oil, but entirely free from oil or grease, must, there- 
fore, be recognized as the best tonic reconstructor possible. Such 
isVINOI.. 

In no way does VINOI, resemble cod liver oil. It does not 
look, nor smell, nor taste like cod liver oil. 

Yet VINOL is guaranteed to contain in a highly concen- 
trated form all the medicinal elements actually taken from 
fresh cods* livers, with organic iron and is deliciously pala- 
table and easily digested, 

VINOIr, therefore, represents unusual body-building and 
strengthening virtue. In all cases where cod liver oil is needed, 
VINOI, will givt the best results, for it is immediately assimilated 
and acceptable to the weakest stomach and disagrees with no one. 



^IP 






GRAHAM BREAD. 

One quart Graham flour, i cup of Rye flour and i cup of Wheat 
flour. 4 teaspoonful of salt, 3 tablespoonfuls of molasses ; piece of 
butter si^,e of a walnut; 1^ pints of lukewarm water and milk mixed 
in which a yeast cake has been well dissolved. Mix thoroughly and 
set in a warm place to rise. When well risen add one tablespoonful 
white flour, knead well, put in baking pans in loaves and set to rise 
again. When well risen bake in a moderately hot oven. 

BROWN BR£AD. 

Three-fourths cup Rye meal, ^ cup Indian meal, f cup Graham 
meal, f cup bread crumbs, ^ cup molasses, 2 cups sour or sweet milk, 
2 teaspoonfuls of soda if sour milk is used, or i ^ ttaspoonf uls soda if 
sweet milk is used. Add a little salt and raisins if desired. Steam 
in brown bread tin for 3 hours. ' 

WAFFLES. 

Dissolve one yeast cake in 2 cupfuls of milk. Stir in one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar, a piece of lard size of an egg, melted; 2 eggs well 
beaten ; i teaspoonful of salt, and 3 cups of flour. Rub the batter until 
smooth, and set in a warm place to rise over, night. In the morning 
beat well. Grease thoroughly both sides of the waffle iron, pour the 
batter in from a pitcher, and bake brown on both sides. 

VINOL, the famous Cod Liver and Iron medicine. Tastes Qood and 
Creates Strength. As a Body Buiider and Strength Creator for Old 
People and Delicate Children it has no equal. It contains no oil or 
greasci and agrees with everyone. . 

CORN CAKE. 

One cup Corn meal, one cup flour, ^ cup sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, i egg, 1 cups./eet milk, i tablespoonful melted butter. 

Sift the flour, meal, sugar and baking powaer together, add the egg 
and melted butter, then the milk. Bake in a moderately hot oven. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Two cups Graham flour, i cup white flour, i egg, 2 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, i tablespoonful molasses or sugar, 2 cups sweet milk. 
Beat the egg well, add the milk, then the other ingredients, and bake 
in a gem pan. 

RYE MUFFINS. 

Two cups Rye flour, i cup wheat flour, i egg, ^ cup molasses, i 
teaspoonful soda and 2 teaspoonfuls cream ot tartar dissolved in a 
little milk. Mix with milk, not too soft, and bake in mufffti pan. 

Mrs. H. W. Avery, Norwiclh, N.Y., says: — "At the age of 89 I felt 
the need of a tonic, something to strengthen and build me up. For 
some time I have taken Vlnol, and have found that it brings vigor and 
strength to the aged as nothing else will.'* 

3- 



Old Age 



With old age comes feebleness and loss of power and waste 
omtstrips addition. New life forces are created, but not so rapidly 
as the old are cast away. 

The organs act more slowly and less effectually than in 
youth. There is a languid circulation and low temperature gen- 
erally. The heart, like all other muscles, has become feeble and 
sends the thin, watery blood lazily along the arteries, and old 
people shiver even on v/arm days. 

It is also hard for old people to get Sufficient nourishment 
from their food, because -the appetite is poor and digestion weak ; 
so to add flesh and conserve energy against disease becomes 
almost impossible. 

Treatment : VINOL, the delicious cod liver preparation with- 
out 6il, is an ideal strengthener and body-builder for old folks. 

Because V^NOL contains all of the medicinal and body* 
btiildiiig elements of cod liver oil, actually taken from the fresh 
cods' livers, together with organic iron, which is a needful 
constituent for the blood, it repaiir> worn tissues, checks the 
natural decline, and replaces weakness with strength. 

If people in this vicinity only knew the good VINOL do^s 
old people we would be unable to supply the demand. 

We return your money if. VINOI^ does not do all we claim* 

Testimonial 

Mr. John N. Kelly of Litchfield, 111., writes : — " I am 73 years old 
and for a great many years I was run down from overwork, indiges- 
tion and severe nervous troubh I had been trying for ten years dif- 
ferent remedies. All seemed to do no good. My druggist told me to 
try ft bottle jj^f VINOL at his risk. I did so, and after taking two or 
three bottles I felt better than I have for the last ten years. I feel 
ten or fifteen 3^ears younger. It is with a grateful' heart that I tell you 
the great good it has done me, and I hope this will be the means ot 
helping many other old and feeble men, as it has me.'' 






STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

One pint flour, .^ cup butter and lard mixed, i egg, 2 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, i tablespoonful sugar. Milk to mix as soft as drop 
cakes. Bake in two thin sheets, when done butter well, and put the 
crushed fruit well sugared between the sheets and on top. Serve hot. 

BERRY CAKE. 

Three eggs, x cup sugar, ^ cup butter, i cup milk, i teaspoonful 
soda, i^ teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, 4 cups flour, then add two cups 
of berries which have been floured. Bake in a moderately hot oven. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup milk, i cup sugar, 3 eggs, 3 heaping teaspoonfuls baking 
powder sifted in the flour, and a little salt and nutmeg. Add flour to 
make them as soft as you can well handle. Beat yolks and whites of 
eggs separately, add the whites of the eggs the last thing after the 
flour has been added. Haxall flour is preferable. 

Mr. Jo&eph Bankton, a prominent insurance man of Betlial^* ill.. 
Says : — *• I am over eiglity years of age, and liave found ttlat there is 
no otiier medicine ectual to Vinol to buiSd up liealtli and strMgth for 
eideriy people." 

BUNNS. 

Three cups milk, 1 cup sugar, t cake compressed yeast dissolved in 
the milk, add flour Enough to make a stiff batter, and rise over night. 
In the morning add i^ cups sugar, f cup butter, § cup currents^ 2 tea- 
spoonfuls lemon. Rise again. When light, roll out and cut with a 
small biscuit cutter. Rise until very Ught, and bake in a quick oven. 
Brush over the tops with the white of egg well beaten, to which a little 
white sugar has been added. 

GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Three cups flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder sifted into the flour, 
little salt, 2 eggs well beaten, add sufficient sweet milk to make a scrft 
batter, cook at once on a well-greased griddle, 

TI14E TABLE rOR COOKII^« 



Rai^d Loaf Bread, 40 to 60 min. 



Graham Gems 
Rolls . . . 
Plain Cake . 
Sponge Cake 
Wtuit Cake . 
CoQkifts . « < 
Plum Pudding , 



« 



u 



30 

. 15 to 20 
. 30 to 40 
. 40 to 60 " 
. 2 to 3 hours. 
. 10 to 15 min. 
. 2 to 3 hours. 



Indian Pudding . 2 to 3 hours. 
Bread or Rice Pudding, 1 hour. 
Steamed Puddings, t to 3 hours. 



Brown Bread 
Pie Crust . . 
Custards . . 
Poftatoes « . 
Baked Beans 



(( 



. . 30 min. 

. 15 to 30 " 

. 30 to 45 " 
. y.to d hours. 



Delicate Children 



"^^ 

:■)>■ 



Rapidly growing children need «i great deal of vitality. They 
grow fast, play hard and work too hard at school. Then the ap- 
petite becomes fitful, their nightd are restless, and they soon be- 
come weak, delicate and sickly. 

Symptoms: The child feels weak, tired all the time, easily 
fatigued, constant desire to sit ''own or lie iown, sleep often 
disturbed and unrefreshing. 

TreAtmenix We know that VINOL will correct these troubles 
and make for each child new vitality, sound fiesh and muscle 
tissue, strong bone structure, and rich, pure, red blood. It 
will build them up, fill out hollow cheeks and make them 
Strong, robust and rosy. If it fails to do this we will give 
back your money. 

The reason VINOIr is so far superior to all other tonics and 
cod liver oil preparations for children is because it contains in a 
concentrated form all of the strengthening and body-building 
elements of cod liver oil actually taken from fresh cods' livers, 
but without a drop of oil or grease, and it does not upset their 
weak, delicate stomachs, like old-fashioned cod liver oil or emul- 
sions, but is easily assimilated and is so delicious that all child- 
ren love it. 

Testimonial 

A noted woman endorses VINOI^. 

Mrs. Rose Hawthorne I^athrop, who has done so much good 
among the children of New York City, writes : 

" Ivittle children seem to delight in taking VINOIy. In iny 
work among the destitute sick, I give VINOI^ in many cases 
where it would be impossible to give cod liver oil in any other 
form, on account of the extreme weakness of the patient's 
stomach. I l^ave known VINOI< to restore appetite and infuse 
new life in many cases of sick women and children when every- 
thing else failed." 

6 






!, 



■Wi 



Pies 



PIE CRUST. 

One quart sifted flour, ^ cup lard, ^ cup butter, i cup cold water, 
little salt. Rub the butter and lard well into the flour, then wet with 
the water, mixing as little as possible. This makes sufficient crust for 
two large or three small pies. . . 

m 

LEMON PIE. 

Moisten one heaping teaspoonful of cornstarch with a little cold 
water. Add i cup boiling water, stir constantly over the fire until it 
has boiled two or three minutes. Remove from the fire and add i 
tablespoonful butter and i cup sugar, When cool add i egg well 
beaten, and the juice and grated rind of one lemon. Bake with crust. 
This makes two small pies. 



y 



LEMON CUSTARD PIE. 

Juice and grated rind of i lemon, i cup sugar, yolks of two eggs, 
2 tablespoonfuls sifted flour, i cup milk, small piece of melted butter. 
Then add whites of two eggs beaten stiff, stir well altogether, and 
bake in undercrust. . ' ; s 



RHUBARB PIE. 

One cup Rhubarb cut fine, 2 cups sugar, i 
flour, I cup seeded raisins chopped fine. 



^SSy ^ tablespoonful 
Bake between two crusts. 



VINOL combines the two most world-famed tonics » the healing 
medicinal properties of cod liver oil and tonic Iron. For this reason 
It Is unexcelled as a strength builder for old people, delicate children, 
weak, run-down persons and after sickness. 



CUSTARD PIE. 

One pint milk, 3 eggs well beaten, 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, little salt 
and grated nutmeg. Bake in undercrust. This makes one pie. 

COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE. 

One pint milk, 2 eggs, ^ cup sugar, i cup grated cocoanut, little 
grated nutmeg. Beat eggs and sugar together until light, add the 
milk, nutmeg and cocoanut. Bake in undercrust. This makes 2 pies. 



Mrs. C. W. Stump, of Canton, Ohio, says : — '« I wish I could induce 
every mother who has a delicate, sickly child to try the delicious cod 
liver preparation Vinol. It restored our little daughter to health and 
strength after everything else had failed. " ^ 



/ 



For Those Who Are Run- 

Do^rn, Tired and 

Debilitated 



Many people right here in this vicinity are all run down, tired out 
and hardly able to drag about, — don't know what ails them. 

CoU$es : This condition is usually the result of sickness, imperfect 
digestion, lack cf nutrition, overwork oC the brain or body, or. 
some organic trouble. 

Symptoms : The patient feels weak ; all tired out ; generally run- 
down; easily fatigued; sleep disturbed and unrefreshing ; no 
strength, energy or appetite. 

Tk*eatment : VINOL, our delicious cod liver preparation, will cure 

j conditions like this, because in a natural manner it acts first 

upon the stomach, strengthens the digestive organs, creates a 

hearty appetite, and makes rich, red blood. New life, strength 

attd energy ate imparted to every organ in the body. 



.iffy. 



testimonial 

Mrs. Harvey L. Minor, Canal Dover, Ohio, writes: 
"Last January I was all run down in liealth and so weak that I was 
unable to attend to my household duties. I was very much discour- 
aged with my condition, as I was receiving no benefit whatever 
from the medicine I had taken. Finally on the recommendation of 
my druggist I decided to try the cod liver and iron prepai-ation, Vinol. 
In a short time I felt better, and after taking five bottles my health was 
fully restored. I have suffered from stomach trouble for years, but 
since taking Vinol this trouble has entirely disappeared, and I now 
eat better, sleep better and am better than I have been for a long 
^me. Vinol certainly worked wonders in my case, and I heartily 
recommend it to anyone in need of such a medicine." 



RAISIN PB. 

One cup Mealed raisins chopped fine, ^ cup sugar, i egg well 
beaten, i tablespoonful flour, ^ cup hot water poured over the raisjins. 
Mix with the other ingredients, and cook over the tire just a little. 
Fill the pie, two crusts, and bake. 

CRANBERRY PIE. 

One quart cranberries^ chopped fine, 2 tabtespOMkllilft com Ctftrbh 
wet in cold water, stir it into i^ cups boilir^ water, 2| cups stigar, 
little salt. This makes the filling tor four pies. 

YOUR DRUGGIST, whose name you will see on the outside Iroiit 
cover page of this little bvook, will give your money bick If VlNOLi 
fells to help you. Did yov? ever hear of a decCor who WMild d6 this ? 

CREAM PIE. 

Three eggs, i cup powdered sugar. Beat the whites of the e^s to 
a very stiff froth, and stir into the sugar. Then beat the yolks 
thoroughly, and stir in with the whites of eggs and sugar. ^ teaiifioon- 
M soda dissolved in a tablespoonful of cold water. Thtfi «dd i ct»p 
pastry flour into wb'rih has been sifted i teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
Beat up quickly and bake in 4 Washington pie tins in a quick dven. 

While they are baking make a cream as follows : 1^ ctq» milk, 
r cup sugar, 2 eggs well beaten, ^ cup flour, i teaspoonfi^ vanilla. 
Sift powdered sugar over the pies, and spread the cream between the 
layers and on top. 

WASHINGTON PIE. 

' Two eggi, 2 cup sugar, i| cups flour, 4 tablesp6onfuIawat*r, | tea- 
spoonful of soda, I teaspoonful Cream of Tartar. Bake in 2 Wash- 
ington pie tins. Cream for filling : .1 cup milk, ^ cup su^ar, i egg, 1 
tablespoonful flour, a tablespoonful cocoanut. Cook together, and 
fill while warm. 



HRAMBLES. 



:>*-i' 



One cup stoned raisins, chopped fine, i^ cups sUjjar, juice and 
grated rind of 2 large lemons, butter the size ot a walnut, i heaping 
deS-ertspoonful corn starch wet with one cup boiling watdif, 3 eggs 
well beaten. Cut pastry crust rolled thin about 4 inches Square, fill, 
fold the crust over and bake. 

Mr. George Hay^m, <»t Unlen City, Pa., irrt«tei t*nh»A lott «iy ^ 
petite, was all rutt-dowii, couia not sleep nights^ 1 hiMt trle<l every- 
thing without reHii. Vlnot was recommended, and to my surprise. 
It h^ped me tit once ; gave me a splendid appetHe, and now i Kle^p 
wtnuMiy.** 

Wliai Vlnot did tor Mr. Mayes, It will da kft every fan^olri, 
nervous and overworked person who cannot sleep. .,■ 



mr 



» 



Coug'hs, Colds 



AND 



Bronchitis 



Are usually caused by exposure to cold when overheated, getting wet, 
cooling off too suddenly, or irritating vapors, and often accompany 
diseases like Grippe, measles, etc. A cough is always associated with 
all inflammation of the lungs, bronchial tubes, larynx, and with most 
throat diseases. 

The bronchial tubes branch off from the windpipe like a network 
and conduct the air to and from the lungs. They are very delicate 
and easily affected by coughs and colds. When they become inflamed 
they fill with mucous and produce difficulty in breathing, a desperate 
cough and bronchitis. 

Treatment: VINOL, our real cod liver preparation without oil, is 

, . a specific throat and lung healer. It goes to the seat of the 

trouble at once, and stops the cough by healing the injure(^, 

inflamed surfaces of the bronchial tubes. It builds up the 

patient's strength at the same time. 

The remarkable healing power of VINOL, combined with its 
great strength-creating force.-., makes it far superior to any other 
remedy for coughs, colds and bronchitis. 

Cough syrups are palliatwes on/y, not curatives^ and usually 
upset the stomach, and not one j^scrson in twenty can take cod 
liver oil and get the benelit from it, owing to the vile-tasting, 
nauseating oil, which envelopes the curatives. 

Now, VINOL is a real cod liver pieparation which contains 
every one of the active, curative principles that make cod liver oil 
famous as a specific for these troubles, but no oil ; it is delicious 
to the taste, and can be retained by the weakest stomach, hence its 
wonderful power to cure chronic coughs, colds and bronchitis. 

Miss Anna Ray, of Bangor, Me., writes : — " 

" For five years I was troubled with a terrible cough and bronchitis. 
I tried a great many different preparations without getting relief. I 
could not sleep, and I became so weak I could hardly walk, and 
coughing day and night. Then I took Vinol. What a godsend that 
first bottle was ! I had not taken half of it before I noticed a change 
for the better. I took four bottles in all, and am entirely cured and 
in perfect health." 



lO 



Puddingfs 



EAKED PLUM PUDDING. 

Thirteen crackers broken fine, i cup seeded raisins, ^ cup citron, i 
cup sugar, 2 quarts milk, 3 eggs, little salt and nutmeg. Bake slowly 
six hours, serve with hard or lemon sauce. 

INDIAN PUDDING, WITH TAPIOCA. 

One quart bdilingmilk, 3 tablespoonfuls of pearl tapioca soaked 15 
minutes, 2 tablespoonfuls Indian meal^ i cup molasses, small piece 
butter, little salt, i egg well beaten. So^.k the tapioca, then add the 
Indian meal and other ingredients, last of all add i cup cold milk. 
Do not stir after adding the milk. Bake 2^ hours, and serve with 
whipped cream. 

Dr. J. E. Bnnls, of Atlanta, Qa., says: — *« I advise Vinol in my 

Erftctice i)ecause I find it lias no equal for healing coughs, colds and 
ronchlal troubles, and for building-up and strengthening old people 
and patients who are antemic, run down, and have no appetite." 

RICE PUDDING. ^ 

One-half cup rice cpoked in i pint of milk, when cdoI add 3 eggs 
weir beaten, i cup sugar, i cup flour, i. heaping teaspoonful baking 
powder. Bake slowly one hour. 



■3/»«;> 



A-? 



APPL£ TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Two tablespoonfuls pearl tapioca soaked over night, i pint of milk^ 
•J- cup sugar, i egg, 4 apples pared, cored and quartered, little salt and 
nutmeg. Bake two hours, stir twice during that time, and serve hot 
with whipped cream. ?. >, ., 

Vlnol is the best cod liver and iron tonic in the world. It creates a 
hearty appetite, strengthens the digestive organs, makes rich, red 
blood, replaces weakness with strength, and agrees with everyone. 

JUDGE PETER'S PUDDING. • . 

Three-fourths box gelatine, 2 oranges, 2 bananas, 6 figs, '2 lemons, 
19 English walnuts. Dissolve the gelatine in ^ pint cold water, then 
add ^ pint boiling water, juice of the 2 lemons, and 2 cups powdered 
sugar. Strain and let it stand until it begins to thicken. Stir in the 
fruit cut in small pieces. Put in a mould and let it harden. Serve 
with whipped cream. 

Old People feel the co*4 keenly because their bl«od is poor. Vlnol 
Is the Ideal blood tonic and strength maker. It creates a hearty appe- 
tite, promotes digestion, purifies and enriches the bloodi and Invigor- 
ates the entire body. 



Pulmonale Troubles 



AND 



Weak I^un^s 



Pulmonary troubles consist of inflammation, acute or chronic, either 
of the mucous membrane lining of the throat or ches^, or of the small 
gUnds connected with that membrane, and each disease takes its 
name from its particular tocation. 

Thus, Laryngitis is inflammation of the Larynx, Phar3mgitis is in- 
flammation of the Pharynx. Bronchitis is inflammation of the bron- 
chial tubes, and unless these troubles are treated in their early stages 
tfaey become chr ^nic, and the lungs are eventually affected. 

Doctors nowa<^ vs do not believe that consumption is inherited. 
But a person may inherit weak lungs, which are very susceptible to 
disease. 

Nteglected coughs and colds gradually weaken the whole pulmonary 
system, and before people realize it there is a diseased spot in one 
lung, raising blood follows, and finally a collapse. 

TVeatmenl : There is no class of diseases in which VINOL, our 
real cod liver preparation without oil, shows its power for good 
more than in pulmonary troubles and to strengthen weak luii^s. 
VINOL soothes anc? heals the inflamed surfaces and allays the 
cough. It creates a.n appetite, makes rich, red blood, and 
restores the system to a healthy, robust condition. 

hundreds of cases where cod liver oil and emulsions have 
faildRk VINOL has succeeded. 




Mrs. jpi^r Brown, Anderson, Ind., writes : 

"Our daughter was veiy ill with lung trouble. Our family physi- 
ciaa said she could not possibly recover. She was so weak we could 
onty give her half^ a teaspoonful of port wine at a time. Vinol was 
recommended as a last resort, and after taking several bottles our 
daughter is as well and healthy as she ever was. Words are inade* 
quttc to express our gratitude to you and your splendid cod Itvqr 
preparation, VINOL.*' , 



I 



ik 



OLD FASHIONID INDIAN PUDDINC. 

One cup Indian meal, i cup molasses, little salt mixed together 
Then take i quart skimmed milk and i pint water and scaM together. 
When it has reached the boiling point add the meal and molasses and 
let the mixtuie cook on top the stove tor five minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Then put in a pudding pan and bake. After it has been in 
the oven one-half hour pour in J pint of cold milk. Do not stir after 
the cold milk has been added. Bake about four hours. 



SNOW PUDDING. 

Soak I ounce of gelatine in i pint cold water for one hour. Then 
place over the fire and stir gently until dissolved. When. almost cold *' 
beat to a stiff froth with an egg beater. Beat the whites of 3 egg« to 
a stiff froth and add to the gelatine, together with the juice of 3 
lemons and pulverized sugar to taste. Mix well and pour into ajk. 
mould to cool. 

Serve with a soft custard made from the yolks of the eggs, i pint 
milk, I cup sugar, small piece butter. Let it come to a boii, add i 
teaspoonf ul vanilla and serve hot. 



.-.V 



.1;' 



Over 5000 leading druggists in the United States guarantee and 
recommend VlNOL as the best Cod Liver preparation, and will even 
return your money If it fails to benefit. 



i3 



BAKED CHOCOLATE PUDDINC. 



Two cups bread crumbs, scald i quart of milk and pour over the 
crumbs and let it stand ^ hour. Add ^ cup sugar, 2 squares choco- 
late melted and mixed with ^ cup sugar and little milk, 2 e^s well 
beaten, little salt and vanilla. Bake in moderate oven one hour. 

Sauce : ^ jar thick cream, ^ cup milL, beat stiff. 2 eggs, beat yolks 
and whites separately, little powdered sugar beaten with yoik. ^ .,.. .^ 



< 
%• 



PRUNE WHIP. 

: One cup prunes cooked soft, ^ cup sugar, whites of two ^^, whip 
well and set in glasses to cool. Serve with whipped cream. 



FIC I^^SSERT. 

Two pounds of whole figs soaked over night. Boil slowly until softj 
add 2 cups of sugar and boil until you have a good, rich syrup. Strvt 
cold with whipped cream and cake. , 



! * 



Good Appetite 
And Healthy Flesh 



Lack of appetite is not in itself a disease, but a symptom of weak- 
ness showing itself in the nerves of the stomach which control the 
desire for food. 

Thin people are usually weak and ailing, and as their bodies are not 
well nourished they are very susceptible to disease. 

Causes: , There are many causes for no appetite and loss of flesh. 
It maybe the result of sickness, poor digestion, insufficient nour- 
I ishment, overwork of brain or body, or a run-down condition. 

Tk*eatinent : No matter what the cause or condition, we recommend 
VINOL to restore a lost appetite and create good healthy flesh. 
It is a recognized fact that nothing has ever been discovered equal 
to the medicinal elements found in the cod's liver to increase the 
appetite and aid digestion ; but the oil nauseates. VINOL con- 
tains in a highly concentrated form all of the medicinal, curative, 
and body-building elements of cod-liver oil actually taken from 
genuine cods' livers, and being without oil or grease to upset the 
stomach and retard its work, it is a great improvement over old- 
fashioned cod liver oil and emulsions. 

VINOL acts upon the stomach in a beneficial way, enabling it to 
obtain the necessary nourishment from the daily food eaten to make 
pure, rich, red blood, and to create flesh and strength. So sure are 
we of its success that we freely offer to return the money paid for 
ViNOL in every case where it fails to give satisfaction. 

Edw. R. Wooster, of Rutland, Vt., writes : — 

" About a year ago I began to run down in health, lost appetite and 
flesh, and suffered from indigestion. All the winter I had a severe 
cough. I doctored without any benefit, and finally my druggist sug- 
gested that I try Vinol. I did so, and soon began to feel better. My 
stomach grew stronger, my food no longer distressed me, my cough 
disappeared, I began to gain in flesh, and soon felt like a new man. 
I did not believe that any remedy could make such a change in a person." 

14 



I^p 



k- 

le 

ot 



ti. 
r- 



d 
1. 
il 
e 

I- 

a 

e 



Hints on CaKe Makin^^ 

In making cake have flour caretuHy sifted, sugar dry and free from 
lumps, eggs fresh, butter sweet, and milk rich and pure. Measure 
accurately. Butter and sugar should be creamed together before using. 
Beat yolks and whites of eggs separate. Baking powder should be sifted 
in with the flour. Soda and Cream of Tartar should be dissolved in 
the milk. Cake may be kept fresh and soft for a long time if you 
place two or three apples, or. a pint fruit jar half filled with water in 
your cake box. This is of great advantage with nut, spice or fruit cajce. 

CURRANT CAKE. 

One cup butter, i cup sugar, 4 eggs, i teaspoonful baking powder, 
I pint flour, 1^ cups currants. Cream the butter and sugar together, 
add the eggs well beaten, beating all the time, then add the flour 
sifted with the baking powder, add currants and one. teaspoonful fla* 
voring extract, bake about i hour in rather a deep tin. 

NUT AND RAISIN CAKE. 

One cup sugar, -J- cup butter, ^ cup milk, 2 eggs well beaten, whites 
and yolks separately, i^ cups flour, i|- teaspoonfuls baking powder, i 
cup raisins chopped fine, i cup walnuts chopped fine. Flour the nut» 
and raisins and mix in the cake last. 

Miss Elizabeth M. Cremond, a Boston Trained Nurse, says: — **! 
was in a critical condition and was restored to health by VlnoL 1 
advise all my patients who need strength, rich red blood and fresh 
tissue, to try Vinol, it is so far superior to old fashioned cod liver oil 
and emulsions." v 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Five eggs, i cup sugar, juice and grated rind of ^ lemon, i cup 
flour, little salt. 

POTATO FLOUR. SPONGE CAKE. '^ 

Four eggs, beat whites and yolks separately, i cup sugar beat into 
the yolks, i teaspoonful lemon. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff 
froth, add yolks of eggs and sugar, and ^ cup potato flour into which 
has been mixed and sifted i teaspoonful baking powder. 

ANGEL '"\KE. 

Beat the whites of 9 eggs to a very stiff froth, when about half 
beaten add -^ teaspoonful cream of tartar, a little salt. When beaten 
add i^ cups sifted sugar and i cup flour which has been sifted five 
times. Add flour very lightly and bake. 

RAISIN CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, i|- cups sugar, i cup sour milk, 3 cups flour, 
I egg, I teaspoonful soda, little spice, i cup chopped raisins. 

Old Polks thrive on VINOL. It makes strength. 



AWi«:M!A 



Is Impure and impoveriBhed blood, fot which VINOI, i» 
especially adapted. 

Cattsess Insufficient nourishment, indoot xjcupation, severe 
mental employment, over-study ; impure air ; over-work ; 

' continued catarrhs ; chiUd and fever, and imperfect assimila- 
tioti of food. 






Symptoms: As long as the blood js impoverished, thin and 
watery, you will be sickly, weak, out of sorts and tired all 
the time, your cheeks will be pale, eyes sunken, and lips lose 
their color. Slight bruises, cuts, bums and scratches will 
be Slow in healing or festtr and become sores. Infectiotis 
diseases are easily contracted. Your blood is ton weak to 
carry away the waste matter from the body, and it escapes 
tibrough the skin in the form of pimples, boils, eruptions 
And eczema. 

Ti^^tmenf : Purify and increase the life-giving properties of the 
blood ; your vital forces will be enhanced, and your system 
fortified against disease. 

VINOI, Wltly PURIFY AND KNRICH THE BtOOD. 

If VINOI^ falls to purify and make rich, red Mood, we 
will refund your money without question. It is the greatest 
, blo6d tonic we know of. Besides the wonderful enriching 
. cod liver oil curatives in VlNOIy (without oil), there is just 
tlie tight proportion of organic iron. This combination re^ 
stores the lacking ingredients to the blood: or, in oliier 
words, the red blood corpuscles which vitalize it, and the re- 
sult is health, strength and vigor. 

irhe illustrations on the back cov^r of this book »liow 

how VINOI# 29 made from genuise £resh cods' livers. 

,6 



i 
1 

e 
1 

> 

s 

s 



V 



CH6COLATE CAKI^^ /O . 

One cup sugar, {.■ cup butter, 3 eggs, 2 cups flour, ^ cup milk, i 
teaspoonful cream ot tartar, ^ teaipoonful of soda, 6 heaping teaspoon^ 
fuls cocoa. Frost with chocolate frosting. 

■, fOMi CAiqi. ;;• :' • , , ' ; 

One-half cup molasses, i^ cups sugar (brown prefer;ed), i cup 
chopped salt pork, 3 eggs, i teaspoonful soda, 3 cups flour, i cup 
raisins, i cup currants, |- Cup citron cut fine, a little of all kinds of 
spice. Bake three hours. 

RAISED CAK£.^ 

' One cup ''raised dough, ^ cup sugar, i cup r&i»in$ chdx>jfed fine, ^ 
cup milk, \ cup butter, i egg, i teaspoonful soda, i cup flour, little 
Spice. 

If you are overworked add run-down, try VlNOL. * 

FRUIT CAKE. 

■ Six eggs, 3 cups sugar, ^ cup molasses, 2 cups butter, i lb. currants, 
^ lb. raisins, ^ lb. citron, i teaspoonful soda, i teaspoonful all kinds 
of spice, 6 cups llour. Chop the raisins and cut the citron fine. 

JELLY ROLL. 

Thre'j eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup flour, i teaspoonful cream of tar- 
tAtt \ teaspoonful soda, 2 tablespoonfuls milk, little salt. Bake in a 
thin sheet, spread with jelly, and roll while warm. 



1 .1.. 



iidMtVt 



CREAM CAKES. 

One cup hot water, ^ cup butter, ^ teaspoonful soda dissolved in 
little water, i cup flour. Boil the water, add butter and flour gradually 
while boiling. When thoroughly mixed, cool and add 3 eggs, one at 
a time. Drop in tins 3 inches apart, ^ake about 30 minutes. 

Cream for filling : i pinti;nilk, ^ cup flour, i cupi sugar, 2 6g^, beat 
the flour, sugar and eggs together, and stir intdthe milk while boiling, 
flavor and add a little salt. iJL^ai. " 

GOOD COMMON CAKE» ^ t 

Two eggs, I cup sugar, ^ cup butter, ^ cup milk, i\ C:tlit|w flour, 
heaping teaspoonful of baking powder, i teaspoonful vanilla. 

MARGUERITES. 

One cup brown gugar, 2 eggs beaten stightly, |- fcup flour, little salt, 
i teaspoonful baking powder, i cup broken pecan nut mfeats. 13i^^|J 
in buttered tins, and put one whole pecan nut meat on top o£ each. 
Bake 10 or 15 minutes in a slow oven. 

VINOL nMkM rich, red Mood oiKl crottetf itrMiftIi« 

**7 



* 



Alter Grippe 



OK 



Convalescence From Any 

Sickness 



There Is just one thing the matter with a person who has been sick 
— that is weakness. 

The Grippe leaves in its wake poor blood, nervousness and weak- 
ness. 

Fevers leave the patient in a condition of prostration. 

Pneumonia leaves the strength depleted and the lungs damaged 
and weak. 

Children's diseases leave them weak, delicate and thin. 

I 

Treatment : We hold out a helping hand to all who have been sick 
and who are slowly creeping back to health. We guarantee 
VINOL, our delicious cod liver preparation without oil, to be the 
best medicine in the world to hasten recovery and build up 
health and strength. In a natural manner VINOL acts first 
upon the stomach, creates an appetite for nourishing food, makes 
rich, red blood, promotes sound sleep, and builds up the weak- 
ened, depleted system to health and vigor. 

We have found VINOL to be the greatest of all body-building, 
strengthening and healing medicines. 

It is because we know so well of what it is made that we offer 
freely to return your money if it fails. 

Testimonial 

Mr. John Kinney, a prominent Indianapolis lawyer, says •> — "The 
grippe left me in a nervous, weakened, run-down condition. Nothing 
seemed to restore my strength. At last I tried Vinol with the very 
best of results. It built me up and made me feel like a different man, 
and I am now better and stronger than I have been for years." 

i8 



f. 



i 



^ 



Feeding^ the Sick 

The diet for the sick or convalescent should consist of easily digested 
'^' and nutritious food, and should be varied as much as possible. Let 

everything be clean and daintily served. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Joint up a chicken and pour over it 2 quarts of cold water, add a 
small onion, ^ teaspoonful salt and a little white pepper. Simmer 3 
hours, or until the liquor is reduced to i quart, strain and cool. The 
next day remove every bit of fat, add 2 tablespoonfuls of boiled rice, 
if desired, and serve hot. 

Xu: BEEF BROTH. 

Allow I pound of beef to i quart of water, cut the beef into cubes 

, about ^ inch in size, put into a granite kc^ttle over the fire and let it 

simmer or cook slowly for 2 hours, then boil it lor 2 hours. Remove 

from the stove, season with salt and pepper, and strain. When cold, 

skim of all fat, heat and serve hot. 

One tablespoonful of oatmeal, rice or 'barley may be added to 
above recipe if desired, and shoulU be put into the cold water when 
first put on to cook. 

OATMEAL CRUEL. 

Two tablespoonfuls oatmeal, i cup milk, i cup boiling water, i tea- 
spoonful sugar, a little salt. Mix the oatmeal, salt and sugar, pour 
the boiling water over it, cook for 30 minutes and strain. Then acra 
the milk, heat to boiling point, and serve hot. 

VINOLt our cod liver and Iron tonic, may be depended upon to create 
a hearty appetite, tone up the organs of digestion, and make rich, red 
blood. In this natural manner Vlnol creates strength for the conva- 
lescent, the run-down, overworked and debilitated, and for delicate 
children and old people. 

INDIAN MEAL GRUEL. 

'~ Two tablespoonfuls fine granulated Indian Meal, i tablespoonful 
flour, I teaspoonful sugar, i cup milk, 4 cups boiling water, a little 
'salt. Mix the meal, flour, salt and sugar into a thin paste, cook in a 
double boiler 3 hours, add milk, and serve hot. 

MILK PORRIDGE. 

One cup milk, i cup water, when boiling hot add a teaspoonful flour 
wet and stirred smooth with cold water, add a little salt, boil together 
until it thickens. Put a nicely toasted cracker into a bowl and pour 
the porridge over it. Ser\ e hot. 

After Grippe, Vinol may be depended upon to enrich the blood and 
restore strength. 

19 



Following we publUh, by request, extracts from a few of the many 
lettert recently received pratslng VINOL. Such voluntary expres- 
sions of approval from 8tranger5 U the very best recommendation 
any prepamtien can have. 

Prof. R. E. R. Hicks, of Maplesville, Ala., writes: — 
" I suffered from a severe attack of the grippe which left me in a 
weal^ened conditicn with bronchitis, a soreness in my chest and a 
hacking cough. I tried different physicians and took nearly every 
kind of cou^ syrup sold on the market without getting any perma- 
nent relief. I saw your cod liver and iron prepar''tion — Vinol — ad- 
vertised, and decided to try it, and it completely cured my bronchial 
trouble and restored my strength. I cannot say too much for Vinol, 
as I received inexpressible benefit from its use, and I consider it one 
of the greatest blessings ever offered to the public." 

Elder Henry Cunningham, of Kingston, N. C, writes : — 
"I have used VINOL with very gratifying results. When I began 
taking it I was run down and weak from indigestion and general de* 
bility. After taking two bottles I had regained my usual strength and 
now for three months am feeling unusually well." , 

Judge C. N. Vaught, of Huntsville, Ala., writes : — 
" I have used VINOL in my family with most excellent results. 
Mrs. Vaught, after a ten weeks' attack of grippe, seemed unable to re* 
Ct"' her strength. She was very weak and had no appetite. VINOL 
rapiuiy improved her condition and restored her health. I sincer^y 
commend its use during convalescence and other run-down conditions." 

Mrs. J. T. Snyder, Greensboro, N. C, writes : — 
<* I wouldn't take a thcmsand dollars for the good VINOL has done 
me. I was told that Cod Liver Oil was the medicine I needed for my 
weakened condition and poor blood. I could not take the greasy mbc- 
ture, and when our druggist told me that VINOL contained not only 
tot^ iron but all the medicinal properties of Cod Liver Oil without 
the grease, I made up niy mind that was the medicine for me. 1 tried 
it afiid to-day am strong and well.'' 

N. L. Stebleton, of Newark, Ohio, writes : — 

" About two years ago my wife was in very poor health. She had 
B0 appetite, was much reduced in flesh, and for three mcntns had a 
v«fy bod cough, with all the symptoms of consumption. She began 
Si^Bi&g VINOL, and before the first bottle was gone her appetite was 
better and she was much improved in health. By the time she had 
used three bot les the cough was entirely gone. We cannot say too 
ihuch'in praise of VINOL." / 

a* 



I 

i 



r 



'■■■^ 



y 

n 



I' 



I' 



MUTTON BROTR 

Put 2 pounds of lean mutton, bones and all, into i quart cold water. 
Add a little sail and pepper and 2 tablespoonfuls of rice. Ju»t bcf<M:e 
it boils skim carefully. Let it simmer until the meat falls to pu^cM. 
When cold skim off tlie fat. Heat and serve with toasted cracker. 

BEEF JUICE. 

Pound juicy beefsteak until tender, heat it through over the tix€, 
and squeeze out the juice with a lemon squeezer. Season to taste. 

EGG NOG. 

Beat the white of an egg to a stiff iroth, add the yolk and beat again. 
Bring milk to a boiling point and pour over the egg, then add 5^gax 
and flavor. . " ' , , 

As VINOL combines two world-famed tonics, the heailnSt.medidh 
nal properties ^f cod liver oil and tonic iron, it Is unexcelled a< a 
Mrength-builder for old people, delicate children, weak and rua-doim 
persons, after sickness and for Chronic Coughs* Colds and BroochltJi^ 

DROPPED EGGS. 

Break 2 eggs into boiling salted water ; when the whites stiffen !^ 
out carefully and serv^ hot, on toasted bread that has been wiell 
buttered. " • 

COFFEE JELLY. 

One-half box gelatine, ^ cup cold water, 2 cups boiling water, i cup 
strong coffee, i cup sugar, i teaspoonful vanilla. Soak the gelatine 
in the cold water for f of an hour, then pour over it the boiling water, 
add the sugar, coffee and vanilla. Strain through linen into a- deep 
dish or mould. When cold, serve with sugar and crea .« 

OUR GUARANTEE- 

After having sold drugs and all kinds of mecH* 
cines for so many years, the public niust give m$ 
credit for knowing something about their value. 
There is no one medicine that will cure everythin|^ 
When we tell you, however, that we have never 
sold ill our store a more valuable remedy tftafi 
our cod liver preparation VINOL, and thiit H it 
falls to do what we say it will in this book» m€ 
will refund your money, it will show you our ftiMIl 
InVINOl- 



\ 



4] 



How To Cure OonBllpmUonm 

A great London physician once said " More than half the sickness, 
especially of women, is caused by constipation." ^ . 

The waste matter from the food if not discarded, ferments in the 
bowels, is carried back through the blood, and poisons the system. 

Avoid Purgatives. 

You must avoid strong purgatives like pills, salts, and powerful physic. 
The symptoms produced by violent cathartics, with pain and griping, show 
that their effect is similar to that of poisons. Moreover, purgatives relax 
and weaken, and the more you take, the less effect they will have upon 
you. After the violent movement and pain, the bowels are left exhausted 
and v/eak. This is no cure, for the bowels become more sluggish and the 
trouble is thus aggravated. 

Vinlnx Cures Constipation. V v , 

There is no medicine made one'dose of which will cure constipation. 
The bowels must have a regular tonic treatment, and the liver stirred out 
of its lazy, inactive condition. 

This requires a little time and systematic attention. One dose of 
Vinlax may not move your bowels next morning, but its persistent use night 
and morning for a while will strengthen the impoverished nerves of the 
intestines, and increase the activity of the liver — and thus your constipa- 
tion will be cured. . , 

■■.''' " ■-" .,!.'■,■■.'*■.■,•■ ^ '.'■ 

Fdr Children. » 

Vinlax is especially good for children. It is gentle and cannot hurt 
them. You should not give to children cathartics, strong laxatives or 
poisonous pills which do mischief even to older people. Many deaths have 
been caused by giving children purgatives too violent for their tender, young 
bowels. It is absolutely impossible for Vinlax to harm a child — it always 
does good. , 

We Guarantee Vinlax to Cure Constipation, or money will be 
refunded. 



#0 



The testimonials from notable people published in 
this book show that the fame of Vinol has spread far 
and wide, having completely outgrown this limited 
locality. This is additional evidence that Vinol is 
immensely superior to any other tonic or cod liver 
oil preparation In the world. 

stir' 



Ib MelUeur Riginirmieur Tonlque du sAole 



II y a bien des personnes dont la condition demande Temploi d'un 
r^gdndrateur tonique, mais qui ne sauraient prendre Thuile de foie de 
moru-incontestablement la meilleure medicine pour restaurer et rdg^n^rer 
les tissus, reconstruire les muscles ainsi que toute la force vitale de Thom- 
me-, parceque malheureusement cette medicine, telle qu'elle est difficile k 
prendre k cause de son odeur, de son goiit et de son effet d^sagrdable sur 
Testomac en g^ndral. 

Notre VINOL, tout en contenant toutes les qualit^s medicinales de 
I'huile de foie de morue est enti^rement d^pourvu de la graisse qui rend si 
d^sagr^able I'huile de foie de morue k I'etat naturel. Le VINOL, au 
contraire tout en poss^dant les qualitds supdrieures du meilleur rdgdn- 
^rateur, a un gofit tout k fait ddlicieux sans avoir rien de ce qui peut 
irriter Testomac. :. 

Nous sommes prets k donner toute garantie que chaque bouteille de 
VINOL possfede absolument toute la somme, des qualit^s medicinales et 
curatives contenues dans une demi-bouteille d'huile de foie de morue 
brute. Quand le sang est appauvri et qu'il y a une d^failance du syst^me 
musculaire, quand il faut rdtablir les tissus de la gorge et des poumons, le 
malade n'a qu'k avoir recours k notre VINOL. 

Ceci est le remade par eSxcellence pour purifief le sang, pour r4g^- 
n^rer les tissus, por r^tablif le systdme musculaire, ^n un mot toutes les 
forces vitales de I'homme. 

II rend I'app^tit, tonifie I'estomac et les organes digestifs et rajeunit le 
systbme tout entier. 

Comme il enrichit le sang et qu'il met I'estomac en dtat d'assimiler la 
nourriture et rend tous les organes capables de fonctionner d'u-.e mani^re 
efficace, en leur communiquaint de nouvelles forces, le VINOL est le 
meilleur remade du monde pour la phtisie et pour toutes les autres affec- 
tions affaiblissantes des poumons, de la gorge et des bronches, etc. 

Mode d'Emploi : Pour adultes : Une cuillerde k chaque repas. Pour 
cnfants : Une dose ^^duite en proportion de I'ige. 



^muBi** 



^ 



ftelluttg ber S^^tptt^tmU, 



63 filcbt elite SJtcnge bon ^crfottc«, lieren Buftonb ben QJebraucii clneS blc SZextoctt uitb b!e 
StotptxQtti)iU Im StUflemcincn rcQencrictcuben 2JlUtcie wot^ig mo^t, bie aber «l(f)t im ^tatbe 
flnb, ^um Seberti^ntn i^re 3uflii(^t iu ne^cn, tmb ^tnar toegen beg abftceenbett Gkruc^S mb 
&t\^ma^ h^tiHn, fotoie auc^ tjiegen beffeu unangene^^tnen (SinftuffcS auf ben SRogen, pblool&l 
fierabe biefeS bel toeitem baS boraHgridjfte iDltttel {ft aunt ^teberaufbau ber QittoiU, jur de* 
jeugung ncucr aJfuSfeIn unb frifc^er Stxa\l 

'©a^rcnb ttutt alicr anfer IBittoI feine borpglic^tt ffiigcnfrfiaftc?! gcrabc bcm Umfta»be t>et» 
banit, ba^ tiaUt leillruftigen (Slementc bed Sebecti^Tand Ibefl^t; ent^alt eS leine bete -fetdgcn 
©ubftoitacn, toelc^c blc pfienangefu^ttcnSlac^t^cite Bcttirlcn, uttb eS Ift fomlt nt(^t, nuvtoa^- 
fc^medenb; un|ba&ei fe^ gefunb.fiir ben ^aQcn, fi)ni)cnt eS ift au^ baS totf;«»fc^ftU(^fle 9Dtit* 
tcl aur ©tcirlung ber 3lcrbctt uttb jur 8Sicbcr:^erftcttitng ber 5?3rpcrgeh)e6e, ba& cS gibt , 

SBir gorattttercn, bafe jebe SXafdjc SSlttoI bie gcinjc ©iiittmc ber Ijetlfrafttgenbett Slctticnte 
elttcr 5clbe« tjlaf^c toon mtbcrtttlf^tcttt Scbcrtl^att ent^alt. ^cr an fcf),lcc^cttt Slut, 3RuSlel» 
f^tounb unb aSgemeUter ©^toadge leibct, fotoie aUe biejenigen, beren %d& unb Sungen angie* 
griffen flnb, ntuffcn unb f oUen l^re guPut^t ju unferetn SSlnoI nc:^nr»n. . . 

S^affelbe ift im hHtl^rften ©Innne bci^ SBorteS eitt boraSglic^eS mtttl aur Stetnigun^ btS 
fdlnitS', aunt SBlebcraufbau ber ®ctoc6e ber JCerben unb ber SKuSfel, e!« unuJcrtreff[{(^« ®tat« 
lungSmittet. @3 tei^t btn Wppitit, \tcixlt ben 3)?agen unb bie JSerbouung^organe unb );>er)ungt 
ben ganaen JtBrper. . , .. 

Stt atten gallen bon ©d^hjinbfuc^t, Swtgen* wJi §atelcibcn, ©rottil^tatGCtflrt:^ unb oitbeten 
ou^ae^i^enbett jfronf^eiten ift S^tnol cin fl(|ereS SJ^ittel, benn eS belebt bcii Slut, ftdxlt ben Tia^ 
gen, fo ba6 er bie i^m augefiii^rte SZa^rung offlmilicren lann, unb bcrlet^t atten anbercn Orgo* 
wen bc8 Si'ixpix» mw iJraft, fo bafe biefelben i^re Snnfttonen toiebcr gana unb boll bcrfe^en 



>: ^ 







%fit (SvkMil^fene s (Sin d^Ioffelbott bei ieber Sl^^Qlllaeit unb bor bent ^u^ltefic^fK. 
fftv iHttber i <£ine lUinctre-Sofi^, unb AttKurim Cer^^tnil ^u bmn t(It«i^ 







r 






I 



T 



TOILET ANTISEPTIC 





NOTHING LIKE IT FOR- 



THE TEETTH ^^^^^ excels any denti- 
MBBBimi^^iai^ frice in cleansing, whitening 
and removing tartar from the teeth, besides 
it decoys all germs of decay and disease 
which ordinary tooth preparations cannot do» 

THE MOUTH ^^^i^^^usedasamouth- 
■i^— ^■-^^■■■^i^ wash disinfedts the 
mouth and duroat, purifies the breath, and 
kills the germs which colledt in the mouth, 
causing sore throat, bad teeth, bad breath, 
the grippe, nasal and bronchial dbeases. 

THE EYES ^^^^ inflamed, tired, ache 
a^BM-m^Mii^ and bum, may be instantly 
relieved and strengthened by Paxtine. 

Used in bathing Paxtine decoys odors and 
leaves the body antiseptically clean. 

QJITAPDU Paxdne win destroy the germs 
J that cause catanh, heal the 

inflammation and ^op the discharge. It is a 
wonderful remedy for uterine catarrh. 

A little Paxtine dissolved in hot water 
makes a ^ong antiseptic solution of extra- 
ordinary cleansing, germicidal and deodoriz- 
ing power — perfectly harmless and mo^ 
economical. There is i.othing like it 



HOW TO GET PAXTINE 

Flrit asic for it at your local drug or toilet store. If thev 
do not k.^ve it, send 50 cents diredt to us and we will 
nend it to you prepaid, guarantee safe delivery, and re- 
fund your money if you are not satisfied. All first class 
drug ftores carry Paxb'ne, price 50 cents a large box. 

Address THE PAXTON TOILET COMPANY, BOSTON, MASS. 



A Proclamation 






Whereas, many people have been led to purchase 
so-called remedies from which they have received no 
benefit whatever, and having thus wasted so much 
hard-earned money, it has come to pass that they know^ 
not what to believe. 

Inasmuch as this unsatisfactory state of affairs exists, 
KNOW, THEREFORE, ALL PERSONS who are 
in need of such a medicine that we will supply them 
with VLNOL on a POSITIVE GUARANTEE that 
if it does not succeed in benefiting them we will refund 
the entire amount of money paid us for it. 

There is no one medicine that will cure everything 
but there are some we know to be honest, reliable, and 
of great curative value. Such is VINOL ; it is not a 
secret medicine, — just peptonate of iron, wine, and all 
the curative extractives of cod liver oil, combined. We 
are familar with every particle of it, and KNOW that 
t should benefit every one who uses it. ^ ,. 

-^^s y . . ■ - . 

Cauld any offer be more fair than this ? You are ill ; 
we offer you medicine which we believe will help you, 
and if it does not we will return your money. Is there 
anyone foolish enough not to accept this offer? You 
owe it to your family, to your friends, and yourself to 
try this medicine which we give you our pledge is a 
genuine cod liver and iron preparation of great merit. 

VINOL is an old and valuable remedy improved by 
modern science— tastes good and agrees with every one. 

Gall and get a bottle to-day. You won't be sorry. 



nil 



