COOKING ^ 




i^ 



A 




ANN KNOX 



AUSTRIAN COOKING 
Arm Knox 



These recipes come from a 
cross-roads of Europe. Viemia 
has been a great capital 
for two hundred years, but 
Austria has absorbed the 
influence of Turks and Hun- 
garians, Itahans and Ger- 
mans, for far longer. 

Since the Austrians love 
food, they have drawn on all 
these sources, and the result 
is as delicious as it is varied. ^M 

There is something contin- ' ' ' 

ually surprising about these 
recipes. The way in which MM 

the Austrians use the most ^* 

homely ingredients in ex- 
citing and delightful new 
dishes will amaze those un- 
acquainted with their cook- 
ing. 

Here are mouth-watering 
soups and stews, cakes and 
pastries, fish and meat dishes. 
You will learn how the Vien- 
nese bake their wonderful 
bread, and how they serve an 
authentic Wiener Schnitzel. 
But in addition to these, 
which everyone has heard of, 
there are scores of recipes 
equally or more dehcious. 
The quintessence of cen- 
turies of expert cooking is in 
this book, waiting to load 
your table with enjoyment. 



AUSTRIAN COOKING 



Uniform with this volume 

FRENCH COOKING 
Elizabeth Smart and Agnes Ryan 

ITALIAN COOKING 

Dorothy Daly 

GERMAN COOKING 
Nella Whitfield 



AUSTRIAN COOKING 

Ann Knox 



SPRING BOOKS 



SPRING BOOKS 

SPRING HOUSE - SPRING PLACE - LONDON NWS 

Printed in Czechoslovakia 

T 453 



Contents 

Introduction ^ 

Some Useful Facts and Figures 9 

Hors d'oeuvres 11 

Soups 1^ 

Noodles & Dumplings 39 

Vegetables & Salads 51 

Fish 73 

Poultry & Game 91 

Meat 113 

Egg Dishes & Pancakes 137 

Sauces & Garnishes 149 

Puddings & Desserts 165 

Bread & RoUs 177 

Pastries & Cakes 195 

Torten 215 



Beverages 



237 



Index 243 



-[ 5 ] 



Introduction 



The Austrians cook in the same way as they dance and make 
music — hght-heartedly, lavishly and enthusiastically. 
Even in their most economical dishes — and there are 
many of them — there is gaiety and imagination, a let's-have-a- 
party feeling that is quite irresistible. 

Austria has had a long and chequered career at the cross-roads 
of Europe. Even the Romans campaigned from Vienna, Innu- 
merable races — the Turks, the Hungarians, the Italians, the 
Germans — have been in and out of Vienna, and each left behind 
its legacy of cooking, which the Austrians immediately took and 
adapted in their own characteristic way. They added their own 
brilliance and hghtness, their own sparkling flavouring to every 
dish they borrowed, even the great French ones. 

When Vienna became a great capital in the seventeenth century, 
Austrian cooking really began to develop into an art. That was 
when the famous Viermese pastry began to be made. Food and 
ideas for cooking were imported from all over the continent, even 
from distant countries Hke Poland and Russia, and adapted to 
appreciative Austrian palates. The beloved sour cream came from 
the Slavs. The paprika which brightens so many Austrian dishes 
came from Hungary (Hungary got it from Turkey, and Turkey 
got it from India). The innumerable noodle dishes came from 
Italy. But everything, as soon as it reached Austria, became 
Austrian. The Austrian accent was quickly acquired! 

Austrian cooking should appeal particularly to English tastes. 
It is substantial, not 'fussy', and very nourishing. Although some 
of the famous cakes and pastries are so wildly extravagant that 
they can only be used for special occasions (but well worth the 
extravagance!) most of the others are marvellously economical. 
The meat dishes, for instance, were ingeniously evolved because 
the Austrians were loth to kill bulls. They felt that it was extrav- 
agant to keep them and have to feed them all that time while they 
grew up and did no useful work. Therefore they kept only the 
cows, which had to work hard producing milk and calves, and were 
kiUed only when they were old and tough. So these mouth- 
watering dishes make brilliant use of old or tough or scragg>' meat. 

[ 6 ] 



The many veal dishes, at which the Viennese are virtuosi grew 
•cm thT to that so maiy baby buUs were kiUed. The celebrated 
I^iener Schnitzel is one result - a dish quite easy to master and 

' ThTStiirdo''v4'-7o%arth soups, with their noodle and dump- 
tng additions, are a briUiant way of supplying good filhng food at 
Me cost, or when suppUes are scarce And the sauces are so 
itillating that they can be Uke fairy godmothers to plain fish or 

"''As'foTthe sour cream used in so many Austrian dishes, once 
^-ou have got used to it, you will be overcome with remorse for 
dl those past times when you poured sour cream down the smk 
mxh a sniff of disgust. A bottle gone sour, mstead of bemg 
I disaster, will become a precious possession, to be turned mto 

enchantment. , . , «„ ooii 

Some of the recipes, especially the more substantial soups, caU 
for many ingredients that you may not have on hand, such as 
chicken legs, giblets, skin and bone marrow etc. But Y^^ butcher 
can often supply these quite cheaply. There is no need to rob 
Sunday's roasting bird! Many dehcatessen shops aU over the 
country, and certainly in big cities, sell such thmgs as chicken 
"ose Hvers, sauerkraut, picked cucumbers, dills ^ sweet 
Ser&ns. There are several different kinds of Paprika. When you 
lit buying yours, you should ask for the Hungarian kind, because 
that is mnd and can be used quite freely Nvithout overpowering 
the dish. Try some before you use it, though, because strengths 

^VoT" wiU find many unusual herbs called for, and it is well 
worth getting to know them. Many of them can be grown m your 
garden; some of them even in a window-box. Try chervil, chives, 
fennel, shallots, sorrel, mint, parsley, marjoram, thyme, g^nc, 
bay leaves. Others you may have to buy dry, or order from 
a herb-farm. There are several of these farms which post ftesh 
herbs to any address aU through the year. You 11 need basd, 
capers, juniper, tarragon, and of course caraway seeds. The 
Austrians adore caraway seeds and have added them to many of 
their borrowed dishes with charaaeristic dash. Buy your cinnamon 
in sticks, and your vanilla in pods if you want the truly subtle 
flavouring that the Austrians insist on in then: sweet dishes 

You probably won't need any special equipment for any ot these 
dishes, as you will have most of the things you will need on hand 
already But you may need a larding needle (see the mtroduction 



-[ 7 ]— 



to the meat section). You must have one or two large and small 
saucepans with really heavy bases; a double-boiler, or saucepan 
over which you can put a bowl to steam; chopping boards; sharp 
knives; a mincer, a grater, a sieve. A mould with a hollow centre 
isn't absolutely necessary, but it does give that gay Austrian look 
to your puddings, aspics and cakes. The Austrians use a great 
deal of art in the decoration of their dishes. For the same reason 
a piper for piping mayormaise and icing would be a useful addition 
to your kitchen. You will certainly need lots of cake and bread 
tins, if you are to try all these tempting recipes. And you will need 
a deep fat-fryer. It will have lots of exciting new jobs to do! 

A typical Austrian meal, especially in the good old days but 
even to-day, would be far too much for the average English ap- 
petite — or capacity! You would begin with soup with noodles 
or dumplings, and fresh rolls or bread; or hors d'oeuvres, if you 
hadn't had these as a snack before the meal. Then you would 
have a fish course with sauce and maybe potatoes; then meat; 
then chicken; with salad and/or vegetables accompanying each. 
Then you would finish off with a sweet, and cakes, coffee and 
hqueurs. There would be different wines throughout the meal. 
Even though the food is dehcious, perhaps even more because it is, 
this seems too much for one meal in England today — not to 
mention the expense. A better way to use these recipes would 
be to choose a substantial soup with noodles and dumplings, then 
a fish, with vegetables such as stuffed tomatoes or turnips, and 
potato wheels, and a rcd-and-green salad, then finish with a fight 
sweet hke stuffed melons or Vienna Foam, and Viennese coffee. 

But you cannot make the acquaintance of Austrian food without 
catching the spirit of it. You will find yourself improvising in a 
typically Austrian way. You will find yourself getting inspired 
ideas for out-of-the-ordinary meals. And it's a pretty sure guess 
that no matter how conservative your family may be about food, 
they won't take long to become enthusiasts about Austrian food. 

There's something about Austrian cooking that makes food seem 
more fun! 



-[ 8 ] 



Some useful Facts 
and Figures 



COMPARISON OF ENGLISH AND AMERICAN 
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

English weights and measures have been used throughout this 
book. In case it is wished to translate these into their American 
counterparts, the following table gives a comparison: 

Liquid Measure 

One pint of Hquid may be regarded as equal to two American 
measuring cups for all practical purposes. 
3 teaspoonfuls equal 1 tablespoonful. 
16 tablespoonfuls equal 1 cup. 



ENGLISH 


Solid Measure 




AMERICAN 


1 pound 


Butter 




2 cups 


1 pound 


Flour 




4 cups 


1 pound 


Granulated Sugar 




2 cups 


1 pound 


Brown (Moist) Sugar 




2 cups 


1 pound 


Rice 




2 cups 


1 pound 


Chopped Meat (finely packed) 


2 cups 


1 poimd 


Lentils or Spht Peas 




2 cups 


1 pound 


Coffee (imground) 




2 cups 


jounce 


Flour 




1 level tbsp 


1 ounce 


Flour 




1 heaped tbsp 


1 oxmce 


Sugar 




1 level tbsp 


^4 ounce 


Butter 


1 tbsp smoothed off 




(Tbsp = tablespoonful) 
r 9 1 







COOKING TEMPERATURES 



Simmering (water) 


180^ F. 


Boiling (water) 


212'' F. 


Very slow oven 


250° F. 


Slow oven 


300° F. 


Moderately slow oven 


325° F. 


Moderate oven 


350° F. 


Moderately hot oven 


375° F. 


Hot oven 


400° F. 


Very hot oven 


450°-500° F. 



TABLE OF EQUIVALENT OVEN HEATS 

(Classified according to the manufacturer) 



Exact Temperatvire 

Cannon (Autimo) 
Parkinson (Adjusto) 

Flavel with Nos. 
Main with Nos. 
G.L.C. New Herald 

Radiation (Regulo) 

Flavel (Letter) 

Main (Letter) 



Slow 
250-325 

3-4 



2 
D-E 



350 
4-5 



Moderate 

375 



Mod. Hot 
400 



3 4 

F G 

C-D D-E 



5 
G-H 



Hot Very Hot 
425 450 



8 9 

6 7 

H-I I-J 

E-F F-G 



TABLE OF EQUIVALENT TEMPERATURES 



Fahrenheit 


Centigrade 


Riaumur 


212 


100.0 


80.0 


200 


93.3 


74.6 


176 


80.0 


64.0 


167 


75.0 


60.0 


150 


65.5 


52.4 


122 


50.0 


40.0 


100 


37.7 


30.2 


86 


30.0 


24.0 


65 


18.3 


14.6 


32 


00.0 
r in 1 


00.0 



Hors d^oeuvres 



The Viennese loved hors d'oeuvres. They served them at 
any time of the day when guests dropped in. In the 
morning with coffee or wine, in the afternoon with coflfee 
or tea, in the late evening with wine, beer and coffee. And they 
weren't just snacks! Many of them are as filling as the main dish 
of a meal. Try them for Ught luncheons or suppers, or as excitingly 
different picnic dishes. They would be very successful served 
at an evening party when you wanted to feed a lot of guests 
informally but substantially. With the open sandwiches, of course, 
you can experiment indefinitely. A typical Austrian hors d'oeuvre 
always looked as dehcious as it tasted. 



[ 11 ] 



ANCHOVY SHELLS 

Sardellen in Muscheln 

6 SERVINGS 

34 lb. butter 2 teaspoons chopped 

5 eggs chives 

6 anchovy fillets 6 scallop shells 

2 tablespoons grated 1 tablespoon fine 

Parmesan cheese breadcrumbs 

Cream the butter and add slowly the yolks of 5 eggs. Mix well, 
then add the anchovy fillets which have been carefully pounded 
beforehand. Stir well together. Now stir in the grated Parmesan 
cheese and the chives. Beat the egg whites until they are frothy, 
then fold them into the creamed mixture. 

Fill the scallop shells with this mixture, sprinkle with bread- 
crumbs and cook in a hot oven for 10 or 15 minutes. 



BOHEMIAN EGGS 

Soleier 

6 SERVINGS 

6 eggs 1 Vi teaspoons 
1 1/2 tablespoons salt caraway seeds 

14 cup onion skin 6 peppercorns 
2^2 cups water 

Hard-boil the eggs. Place them under a running tap of cold water, 
then tap the shells firmly all over to crack them. Place the peeled 
eggs in a deep fireproof dish. Boil the water, salt, onion skins, 
peppercorns and caraway seeds together for 5 minutes. Pour 
over the eggs. Stand in a cold place overnight, and serve cut in 
oblong quarters. 



[ 12 ]- 



BOHEMIAN PIE 

Zwiebelkuchen 

8 SERVINGS 

pie dough for open pie 2 eggs 

7 onions 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tomatoes 1 teaspoon pepper 

7 rashers 1 teaspoon paprika 

1 oz. butter ^ teaspoon nutmeg 
Yz cup thin cream 

Make enough pie-crust dough for a 9 inch pie tin, roll out the 
paste and place it in the pie tin. Brush the pie paste with 1 egg 
white and put. in a cold place for 15 minutes. Chop the bacon 
rashers into fairly large oblong pieces, slice the onions, melt the 
butter in a frying pan, add the onions and bacon and fry until 
the onions are golden and the bacon crisp. Add the tomatoes 
coarsely chopped, and the seasonings. Beat 1 egg and 1 egg yolk 
into the cream and add this cream to the onion mixture which 
you have removed from the fire. 

Fill the pie paste with the onion mixture and cook in a moderate 
oven for 25 minutes. Serve hot. 



CHEESE SPREAD 

Bierkdse 

6 TO 8 SERVINGS 

1/4 lb. Edam Y^ lb. butter 

14 lb. Blue cheese IH teaspoons paprika 

^ lb. Parmesan ^ teaspoon salt 
^ cup sour cream 

Put the Edam and Blue cheese through a fine mincer, and add 
them to the creamed butter. Grate the Parmesan and add with 
the paprika and salt. Stir in the sour cream, mix well together, 
and serve spread on Ryvita-type bread. 



-[ 13 ]- 



CHICKEN PANCAKES 

Huhnerpdlatschinken 

4 SERVINGS 

egg-batter pancake 1 teaspoon chopped 

mixture chives 

1 1/2 cups cooked diced 2 tablespoons cream 

chicken Vi tablespoon flour 

1/2 cup chopped pinch cayenne pepper 

mushrooms salt and pepper 

juice of 1/2 a lemon 1 tablespoon grated 
2 tablespoons butter Parmesan cheese 

Melt 11/2 tablespoons butter over a very low flame and stir 
in the juice of V' a lemon. Add the chopped chicken meat, sur, 
cover and cook gently for a few minutes. Add the mushrooms, 
chives, salt, pepper and cayenne pepper, mix, cover, and cook 
for another few minutes. Cream K tablespoon flour and ^ o table- 
spoon butter together, add to the chicken mixture togetner with 
the cream, cover and continue cooking very gently for 5 mmutes. 
Make 4 pancakes with the egg-batter pancake mixture (page 
145) Spread these out and fill each with 4 tablespoons of the 
chicken and mushroom mixture. Fold them over and place them 
in a fireproof dish. Pour the remainder of the chicken and mush- 
room mixture over them, sprinkle with Parmesan cheese and 
brown in a hot oven. 

GOOSE LIVERS 

Ganseleber 

4 SERVINGS 

4 goose fivers Va lb. mushrooms 

3 ozs. butter 4 tablespoons sour 

4 tablespoons dry cream 

white wine salt and pepper 

Get the butter sizzling hot in a frying pan. Chop up the fivers 
and fry them in the butter for 3 or 4 minutes, stirring them 
constantly. Chop up the mushroom caps, unpecled, and add 
them to the frying pan. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Reduce 
the heat to low. Pour on the wine. Stir. Cook very genUy 
for about 10 minutes or until the fivers are quite tender, then 
add the cream. Serve on thin sfices of toast. 

_ [ 14 ]- 



HAM AND MELON HORS D'OEUVRE 

Melone mit Schinken 

6 SERVINGS 



1 ripe melon 
12 slices Westphalian 
or Parma ham 



1 lemon 

1 tablespoon chopped 
mint leaves 



Cut the melon into 6 slices. Scoop away the seeds and fibres 
from the inside. Sprinkle the flesh of the melon with the juice 
of 1 lemon. Serve cold with thin rolled sHces of ham garnished 
with chopped mint leaves. 



HAM SLICES 

Schinkenschnitten 

6 TO 8 SERVINGS 



2 cups ground ham 
1/4 lb. butter 
1 cup thin cream 
7 eggs 
14 cup grated cheese 



Y2 cup fine bread- 
crumbs 

1 teaspoon chopped 
parsley 

salt and black pepper 



Cream the butter. Add the egg yolks slowly, beating well as you 
add them. Then stir in the ground ham, cheese, cream and 
a good pinch of salt and black pepper. Beat the egg whites until 
stiff, then fold them into the mixture. Add the breadcrumbs and 
parsley lightly to the mixture. Line a shallow baking dish with 
greaseproof paper, fill it with the mixture, and cook in a moderate 
oven for twenty minutes. Serve in slices either hot or cold. 



-[ 15 ]- 



HERRING SALAD 

Heringssalat 

4 SERVINGS 



3 filleted salt herrings 
2 slices cold pork 

1 pickled cucumber 

2 gherkins 

3 apples 

1 cup diced beetroot 

2 cups diced cooked 

potato 
y^ cup ohve oil 



2 tablespoons 

vinegar 
1 teaspoon strong 

mustard 
^2 glass white wine 
1 chopped onion 
1/2 teaspoon sugar 
^ teaspoon salt 
pinch white pepper 



Chop the salted herrings and pork shces into fairly large pieces. 
Slice the cucumber and gherkins. Dice the peeled and cored 
apples. Put all these with the diced beetroot and potatoes into 
a deep salad bowl. Mix ohve oil, vinegar, mustard, wine, finely 
chopped onion, sugar, salt and pepper. Pour this mixture over 
the ingredients in the salad bowl, mix gently and serve cold. 



LIVER MEAT CAKE 

Leberkuchen 

6 SERVINGS OR MORE IF SMALL 



6 cups chopped 

livers 

(veal or goose) 
6 eggs 
1 cup cream 
34 cup butter 



2 cups breadcrumbs 
i^ cup milk 
salt and pepper 

1 teaspoon parsley 

2 teaspoons flour 

a little mayonnaise 



This hors d'oeuvre should be made some time before you want it. 
Put the breadcrumbs to soak in the milk. Put the chopped hvers 
in a pan in which you have fiist melted the butter, and cook them 
for about 10 minutes, with the hd on the pan, on a low heat. 
Then remove the hvers and mince them into a bowl. Stir the 
milky breadcrumbs into the minced hvers. Add the finely chopped 
parsley, the cream, the well-beaten eggs, salt, and pepper. Melt 
a httle butter and brush a jelly-mould (preferably one with 



[ 16 ]- 



a hollow centre) with it. Then sprinkle a Uttle flour over the 
butter. Now fill it with the liver mixture and put it to steam for 
1^ hours. Remove it from the steamer. Let it cool shghtly. Turn 
it out on a serving dish. Shce it very thinly, and dab it all over 
with blobs of mayonnaise. 



OPEN SANDWICHES 

Belegte Brotchen 

These sandwiches of infinite variety are very colourful for cocktail 
parties. 

SUce various types of bread, such as Vienna rolls, pumpernickel, 
rye and whole wheat. The sUces should be fairly small squares 
or circles. Spread the shces with butter which has been creamed 
with some dry mustard. Cover with cream cheese to which 
chives have been added, sprinkle with a Uttle red pepper. Or 
slices of hard boiled eggs and rolled anchovy fillets, or pickled 
herrings chopped with tomato and a little mayonnaise to bind, 
or tunny fish creamed with mayonnaise and some capers and 
chopped green oUves, or cucumber sUces topped with mayonnaise 
and decorated with thin sHces of red pepper, or various types 
of small German sausages. These are but a few of the many that 
can be made. 



PORK JELLY 

Schweinssulz 


8 SERVINGS 


2% lbs. lean pork 
2 pork bones 

1 cup wine vinegar 
^ lb. carrots 

^ lb. onions 

2 small leeks 
1 stick celery 


1 bay leaf 
spring of thyme 

2 springs of parsley 
black pepper 

2 hard-boiled eggs 
salt 



Place the pork and pork bones in a saucepan with the wine vinegar, 
and cover with water. Bring to the boil, then skim. Add all the 
vegetables, seasonings and herbs Usted above, bring barely to the 
boil, then simmer very gently for 1 ^ hours, or until the meat is 
tender. Now remove the bones and strain away the liquid. Shce 

[ 17 ] 



the pork and place it in a deep serving dish surrounded by the 
vegetables. Decorate with sUces of hard-boiled egg. Now pour the 
liquid in which they were cooked over the pork and vegetables 
and allow to cool and set before serving. 



POTATO SALAD 

Kartoffelsalat 

4 SERVINGS 

1 lb. small boiled 2 tablespoons vinegar 

potatoes 2 tablespoons 

2 tablespoons olive oil chopped salt 
1 dessertspoon herrings 

chopped onion 2 tablespoons 

1 teaspoon chopped chopped gherkins 

parsley salt and pepper 

The potatoes should be boiled in their skins, which are removed 
while they are still hot. The potatoes are then sUced into thin 
roimds, placed in a bowl, covered with the oil, vinegar, onion, 
parsley and a good pinch of salt and pepper. Decorate with the 
herring and gherkin pieces and serve cold. 



SPRING CHEESE 

Fruhlingskdse 

4 SERVINGS 

4 thick sUccs black 2 teaspoons salt 

bread 2 teaspoons paprika 

8 stuffed oUves 2 teaspoons parsley 

1 pickled cucumber 2 teaspoons chives 
V2 lb. cream cheese a few caraway seeds 

2 tablespoons butter 
or thick cream 

Mix the cheese, butter or cream, well together with the salt and 
paprika and caraway seeds. Chop the parsley and chives very, 
very fine and add them, mixing in well. Pile each shce of bread 
thickly with this mixture. Slice the olives and cucumber and 
arrange them over the top of each. 

[ 18 ] 



Soups 



Austrian soups are wonderfully healthy and filling. Many 
of them are quite enough to be meals in themselves, 
especially with the typically Austrian additions of dump- 
lings, noodles, pancakes, etc. which were either added at the last 
moment or cooked gently in the soup for about a quarter of an 
hour before serving. Many of the soups came originally from the 
peasants or from the soup-loving monks, who were sometimes 
given a penance of being only allowed one soup a day. The clear 
soups were used only as appetizers to huge Viennese meals, but 
even they are extremely rich and tasty. Some of these soups may 
seem extravagant, but if you plan to make them as by-products 
of other dishes, you will find them an economy in the end. Most 
of them can be stored in a refrigerator, or boiled up every day to 
keep fresh, and will therefore last for quite a time. The basic 
stock is very similar to the French 'pot au feu', and it is well 
worth while keeping one always going, as many of the sauces 
as well as the soups call for stock. 



[ 19 ]- 



PLAIN STOCK 

Einfache Fleischbriihe 

2 to 3 lbs. bones (bones from rib roast, breast, legs or shoulder. 
Either chicken or beef is ideal for clear soups. Veal bones can 

also be used with success.) 

3 quarts water or water and cooked vegetable water mixed. 
The bones and Uquid should be simmered very gently for as much 
as 3 to 4 hours. The pot-Ud should rest in such a way as to allow 
steam to escape while saving the value of the contents. Always 
remember that soup boiled is soup spoiled. Allow stock to cool 
naturally. It should become cold before being stored in the 
refrigerator. All bones should be removed before storing. The 
stock serves excellently for clear vegetable soups. It can be 
flavoured additionally to make a good hghtly garnished soup, 
or as the basic stock asked for in many recipes. 



STOCK WITH VEGETABLES 

2 to 3 lbs. bones. Either beef bones, such as trimmings from 
a roast, or chicken bones and trimmings. 

3 quarts water or 10 good sprigs of pars- 
cooked vegetable ley (complete with 
water stems) 

2 large carrots 1 bay leaf 

1 small parsnip 1 small teaspoon 
1 large or 2 small peppercorns 

onions Va teaspoon whole 
1 small leek (complete allspice 

with green top) salt to taste 
outer stalks of head 
of celery 

Wash carrots, wash and scrape parsnip. Peel and halve or quarter 
onion. Clean leek and celery carefully. Bones and water should 
be brought slowly to simmering-point, and the scum skimmed 
off" as it rises. Vegetables, herbs and seasonings should be added 
as soon as you are sure all the scum is gone. Simmer very gently 
for 2 to 3 hours. If the stock is to be used fairly soon, hft off" the 
fat which has formed on the top. If it is to be kept for a time 
in the refrigerator, leave the fat intaa. 

[ 20 1 



FISH SOUP STOCK 

Fischsuppe 

SEVERAL DAYS' SUPPLY 

1 lb. fish (heads and 2 outer stalks celery 

tails will do quite (chopped) 

well) a few sprigs parsley to 

2 ozs. butter garnish 
1 small onion salt to taste 

(chopped) 1 bay leaf 

1 small carrot 2 or 3 peppercorns 

(chopped) 1 good pinch dill 

seeds 

Fry onion lightly in butter, till golden. Add celery, carrots and 
parsley, and cook for a few minutes over low heat. Stir all the 
time, and the juices will emerge. Add water and leave to cook for 
about 7 minutes. Add the cleaned fish in smallish pieces and 
cover with water, untH all the fish is at least 1 inch below the 
surface. Bring to a fast simmer, add seasonings and let simaner for 
at least 1 Yo hours, covered with a hd. Longer cooking will do no 
harm. When cold, remove any fat, and strain. 



BEER SOUP 

Biersuppe 

6 SERVINGS 

^4 cup cream (thin) 6 egg yolks 

1 quart beer 1 teaspoon ground 

1 cup sugar cinnamon 

You will need a double boiler for this soup. Put the beer in the 
top of the double boiler. Beat the egg yolks in a bowl. Add the 
sugar and cream, stirring smoothly together. Add this mixture 
to the warm beer before it gets really hot. Stir every few minutes. 
Lower the heat so that the water in the boiler is only just bubbUng. 
When the soup begins to thicken, stir in the cinnamon, and serve 
at once. 



[ 21 ]- 



BEGGARMAN'S SOUP 

Bettelmanns-Suppe 

4 SERVINGS 

4 slices rye bread 4 eggs 

sufficient butter to 1 quart stock 

spread chopped parsley 

While we may feel that a beggar would not have four eggs, the 
hostess beggared of time will be glad of this appetizing soup. 
Toast the rye bread, and butter generously. Cut into sippets 
and place in 4 soup plates. While the stock is coming rapidly 
to a fast simmer, break an egg on to the toast in each plate and 
sprinkle with parsley. Share the stock equally over each plate 
and serve immediately. 

BREAD SOUP WITH HARD-BOILED EGGS 

Brotsuppe mit Eiern 

6 shces stale bread 1 tablespoon chopped 

1 V2 pints veal stock parsley 

3 eggs 1/2 lb. smoked meat or 

a little butter sausages 

salt and pepper 

Use the end crusts of bread, if possible, but anyhow make sure 
the bread is quite dry. If necessary, crisp it in the oven. Warm 
the stock, but don't boil it. Break each piece of bread into about 
six, and put them all in a large saucepan. Pour the stock over 
them. Leave for 1 5 minutes before putting them on the stove, 
then bring the stock to the boil. Add salt and pepper. Reduce 
the heat until the soup is barely simmering. Simmer for thirty 
minutes. With a potato masher or large wooden spoon, mash 
any bits of bread still intact. Break the yolk of 1 egg into a basin 
and whip it for 1 or 2 minutes. Take a little stock from the soup 
and blend it well into the egg. Remove the saucepan of soup from 
the fire. Wait 1 minute, then carefully stir in the egg and stock 
mixture. Put in a warm place to keep hot, but on no account let it 
boil or the egg will curdle. Hard-boil 2 eggs. Remove the shells 
by first plunging them into cold water. If you are using sausages, 
fry them lightly now. Fry the chopped parsley in a little butter for 
2 or 3 minutes. Shce the hard-boiled eggs and add them, with the 
sliced sausages or smoked meat, to the soup. Leave for 2 minutes. 
Sprinkle on the parsley, and serve. 

[ 22 ] 



BROWN MEAT SOUP 

Braune Kraftsuppe 

10 SERVINGS 

1 onion 1/2 lb. veal 
1 carrot 1 lb. beef 

1 stick celery 1 tablespoon butter 

salt 1 sprig parsley 

14 lb ham black pepper 

Chop up all the meats, and remove any fat from them. Take 
a large stewing pan (about 5 pint size), with tight-fitting lid, and 
put it on the fire. Melt the butter in it. Chop the onion finely 
and put it in the butter. Add the chopped meats. Stir occa- 
sionally. 

Chop the parsley as small as possible and add it with salt and 
pepper. Fill up the pan with cold water. When the water boils, 
skim off the scum and add the carrot and celery, chopped up. 
Lower the heat until the water is just simmering gently and leave 
the broth to cook for 3 to 4 hours. Serve either strained or as 
a clear brown soup with dumplings, etc., or with the meat and 
vegetables, in it or on the side, as a more substantial soup. 

Any left-over broth will keep well if it is boiled up each day. 
It is a useful soup for using as stock in other dishes too. 

CARAV/AY SOUP 

Kummelsuppe 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

% quart boihng water 1 V2 tablespoons flour 

1 heaped teaspoon ^ lb. macaroni 

caraway seeds salt and pepper 

2 tablespoons butter 

Put the butter in a large saucepan on the stove. When it is melted, 
blend in the flour smoothly, stirring all the time. When it is 
getting brown, stir in the caraway seeds. Boil the water separately, 
and slowly pour it onto the butter and flour, alv/ays stirring. 
Simmer for 30 minutes. Get a saucepan of salted water boiling 
rapidly. Break the macaroni into small pieces and throw it into 
the boiling water. Cook for 10 minutes. Drain. Strain the soup 
through a fine strainer or sieve. Return it to the saucepan. Throw 
the macaroni into the soup. Bring to boiling point and serve at once. 

[ 23 ] 



CAULIFLOWER SOUP 

Karfiolsuppe 

4 SERVINGS 

3 cups stock 1 ^2 cups cauliflower 
14 cup single cream (white flowerets 

^ teaspoon chopped only) 

parsley a little grated onion or 
croutons garhc 

Let the cauliflower simmer in the stock until very tender. Add 
a little onion or garlic and simmer for from 5 to 7 minutes. Add 
the cream, sprinkle with parsley, and serve with croutons on a 
side dish. 



CHICKEN AND VEAL BROTH 

Lichte Kraftsuppe 

5 OR 6 SERVINGS 

^ lb. chicken, with 2^4 pints water 

skin 1 small carrot 

^ lb. veal 1 small onion 

34 lb. beef top of celery stick 

chicken bones 1 teaspoon parsley 

1 small pigeon or white pepper 

partridge salt 

Choose a large saucepan, big enough to hold 2 quarts of water. 
Chop up the raw meat and chicken and pigeon and put them, 
together with the bones, in the saucepan. Pour in 2 ^2 pints of cold 
water. Bring to the boil. Remove the scum as it rises. Lower 
the heat until the water is just gently simmering, and simmer 
for 4 hours. Scrub the carrot and cut off its discoloured parts 
and add it whole to the soup. Peel the onion and add it with 
the celery top. Simmer for another 45 minutes. 

Add salt and white pepper. Then strain the soup into a big 
tureen or individual bowls and garnish with chopped parsley. 
If you prefer the soup clear, as the Viennese do, add 3 or 4 eggshells, 
with a bit of white sticking to them, to the soup about 15 minutes 
before you take it off the stove. Remove the shells, of course, 
before you strain it. Serve the soup with Nockerln, Soup Peas, 
Schoberl, or dumphngs. 

[ 24 ] 



CHICKEN GIBLET SOUP WITH LIVER 
DUMPLINGS 

Suppe mit Leberkrwdeln 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

14 lb. chicken livers 1 medium-sized 

1 lb. chicken giblets parsnip 

2 or 3 chicken legs, salt and pepper 

if possible 1 tablespoon parsley 

3 ozs. butter 1 egg 

1 1^ cups flour 2 tablespoons sour 

1 big carrot cream 

Put the giblets in 2 pints of salted cold water and bring to the 
boil. Reduce the heat and simmer for 1 hour. Chop up the 
carrot and parsnip finely. Put the butter in a thick saucepan and 
when it has melted, add the carrots and parsnips, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, and cook gently over a low heat, with the cover 
on the saucepan, for 15 minutes, shaking the pan every few 
minutes. Be sure the heat is very low, or the vegetables will bum. 
Now add 1 heaped tablespoon flour. Blend it weU in and then 
slowly add the water in which the giblets have been cooking. 
Take the giblets themselves, mince them, and add them to the 
soup. When the soup comes to the boil, lessen the heat, so that 
it is barely simmering. Now make the dumplings: put a cup 
of plain flour in a big bowl. Beat up the egg in a Httle water and 
stir it into the flour. Add more water until you have added about 
half a cup altogether. You should have a fairly thick dough. 
Chop up the chicken Hvers very small, and fry them for 3 minutes 
in 1 tablespoon hot butter. Add salt and pepper. Add the livers 
to the dough, blending them well in. Raise the heat under the 
soup and when it begins to bubble take the dough, a teaspoonful 
at a time, and push each down into the soup. Boil gently for 3 or 4 
minutes, not fast, only the gentlest of bubbles. By that time all 
the httle dumplings should be bobbing about on top of the soup. 
Remove the soup from the fire. Add 2 tablespoons sour cream, and 
serve at once. 



[ 25 ]- 



CREAM PEA SOUP 

Erbsensuppe mit Rahm 

6 SERVINGS 

1 pint fresh peas, 1 teaspoon sugar 

shelled salt and pepper 

1 pint stock 1 pint sour cream 

2 tablespoons flour 3 onions 

2 tablespoons butter a few caraway seeds 

Put the butter in a large saucepan. Add the shelled peas, salt, 
pepper, 1 teaspoon sugar and 1 tablespoon water. Cover the pan 
and leave over a low heat for 10 or 15 minutes. Old peas may tal:e 
more time to get tender. 

Mix 1 tablespoon flour with just enough cold water to make 
it smooth and runny and add it to the saucepan of peas. Cook 
until the Uquid is a rich golden colour. Then pour the whole 
mixture through a sieve into a bowl. 

Get the stock hot in the saucepan from which tlie peas were 
taken and then pour it over the sieved peas in the bowl and 
return everything to the saucepan, stirring all well together. Keep 
the heat low, and simmer for 1 hour, then pour into a jug and 
keep it in a warm place. Peel and chop the onions. Melt the 
butter in the soup saucepan. Gently cook the onions until golden. 
Stir in 1 tablespoon of flour, blend it well, and let it begin to 
colour. Gradually add the warm pea soup to it, stirring all the 
time. Remove from the fire. Wait 2 minutes. Warm the sour 
cream but do not let it boil, then add the cream to the soup. Stir 
well. Return the saucepan to the stove and simmer on a very low 
heat, preferably with an asbestos mat, for 15 minutes, first adding 
salt, pepper and caraway seeds. 

While the soup is simmering, cut some bread into quarter-inch 
squares and fry them in hot butter until they are golden and 
crisp croutons. When the soup is done and poured into a tureen 
or individual cups, place the croutons on top. 



[ 26 ]- 



CUCUMBER SOUP 

Gurkensuppe 

4 TO 5 SERVINGS 

2 cups chopped 1^ pints stock 

cucumber ^ pint cream 

1 chopped onion 2 ozs. white flour 

(rather small) salt and white pepper 

1 1/2 ozs. butter to taste 

1 teaspoon chopped 
parsley 

Toss the cucumber, onion and parsley in the butter over a low 
heat until tender. Do not allow to brown. Add the flour, stirring 
carefully to avoid lumps. Remove from heat. When sUghtly 
cooled, add the cream (this way it will not curdle). Add the stock, 
which should be very hot, gradually. Season to taste and serve 
with noodles, dumplings or bread. 



FRUGAL PEASANT SOUP 

Sparsame Brennsuppe 

6 SERVINGS 

2 onions 1 teaspoon vinegar 

1 tablespoon butter or 2 pints water 

margarine 2 eggs 

2 or 3 tablespoons 1 tablespoon chives 

flour 1 tablespoon parsley 

Put the butter in a saucepan to get hot. Peel and chop the onions 
and add them to the butter. Cook them until they are hght brown. 
Add 2 tablespoons flour and stir it well into the butter. Gently 
add 2 pints of water, stirring all the while. Reduce the heat to 
simmering point, and let the soup simmer for 10 minutes. While 
it is simmering hghtly beat up 2 eggs and add to them the 
parsley and chives, which you have chopped up very finely. 
Remove the soup from the stove. 

Wait for a minute, then add the egg mixture to it. Add 1 
teaspoon vinegar and serve at once. 

[ 27 ] 



PROSPEROUS PEASANT SOUP, 
TYROLEAN STYLE 

Tiroler Brennsuppe mit Wein 

A slightly more expensive version of the above. Use stock instead 
of water, 1 glass of red wine instead of vinegar, and at the last 
moment, add a gill of cream. 



GOULASH SOUP 

Gulaschsuppe 

4 GOOD SERVINGS 

2 ozs. bacon salt to taste (be careful 
^2 lb. stewing beef if the bacon is 

(diced) rather salt) 

1 onion 14 clove garhc 

1 V2 teaspoons paprika V2 cup flour 

% teaspoon marjoram 2 pints stock 

2 cooked potatoes 

Chop bacon and fry hghtly, adding 710 fat. Toss in chopped 
onions and continue frying. When golden, add the diced beef, 
and let all sizzle together. Keep tossing to prevent burning or 
sticking. Now shake in paprika, garhc (well chopped) marjoram 
and salt. When blended, add a httle cold water, cover and simmer 
over low heat for 20 minutes. Now mix in flour with care, 
allowing no lumps to form. Add stock gradually, and simmer 
gently for 15 minutes. Dice the potatoes and stir in 5 minutes 
before serving. Here is a soup closely related to a true goulash. 
The ingredients are made finer and the whole of course thinned 
to a soup consistency. 



[ 28 ] 



LEEK SOUP 

Lauchsuppe 

4 SERVINGS 

1 lb. leeks 2 pints stock or 

2 large onions water 

2 tablespoons butter ^ lb. potatoes 

4 tablespoons sour salt 

cream or butter- 
milk 

Clean and wash the leeks and cut them into small pieces. Melt the 
butter in the bottom of a large saucepan. Slowly braise the leeks 
in the butter. Add the onions cut into rings. Now add stock 
or water and boil until the vegetables are soft. Pass everything 
through a sieve and return it to the saucepan. Bring to the boil, 
and add the peeled potatoes cut into small dice. Lastly, add a Httle 
sour cream or buttermilk. 



LIGHT POTATO SOUP 

Lichte Kartqffelsuppe 

4 SERVINGS 

1 lb. potatoes 1 dessertspoon 
1/2 glass milk chopped parsley 

1 carrot salt and pepper 

1 stick celery 1 parsnip 

1 soupspoon butter 1 large onion 

or bacon fat thyme 
1 soupspoon flour 

Peel the potatoes and cut them into small pieces. Put them into 
a large saucepan of boiling water with the carrot, parsnip, celery, 
onion and thyme. Add salt and pepper. Boil for half an hour, 
then pass everything through a sieve and return to the saucepan. 
Bring to the boil again. Mix the flour to a smooth paste with 
a Httle cold water. Add the butter or bacon fat. Blend until 
smooth, then add to the soup. Lastly add the chopped parsley. 
Frankfurters cut into small pieces may be added if desired. 



[ 29 ]- 



MUSSEL SOUP 

Muschehuppe 

4 SERVINGS 

2 pints mussels 1 y^ pints fish stock 

% onion, chopped 1 tablespoon chopped 
^ cup butter parsley 

^4 cup water juice of 1/2 lemon 

V2 cup flour a little salt 

Gently steam the mussels in the water. When cooked (seven to 
ten minutes) strain, and keep the hquid. Take mussels from 
shells and save till wanted. Fry the onion in butter until golden. 
Shake in the flour, stirring and mixing. Now stir in the fish 
stock, adding the mussel-hquid at the same time. Salt to taste, 
add parsley and lemon juice. Chop the mussels (not too small) 
and add. Serve immediately and very hot. 



QUICK CLEAR SOUP 

Schnelle Fleischsuppe 

8 SERVINGS 

1 good-sized oxtail the outside of 1 head 

(11/2 to 21/2 lbs) of celery 

1 lb. chicken pieces 1 bay leaf 

1 onion 6 or 8 peppercorns 

1 carrot a few whole allspice 

1 small leek 3 quarts water 

several sprigs parsley salt to taste 

Clean all vegetables, quarter the onion, chop the carrot, cut leek 
and celery into small pieces, chop parsley. Combine all in- 
gredients with water in a large pot and simmer for 1 to 2 hours. 
Allow to cool, and remove all the fat. If a completely clear soup 
is wanted, strain, then reheat and put in several eggshells with 
a httle of the white adhering. Simmer for about 15 minutes, 
remove from heat and allow to settle. Strain carefully through 
a fine sieve, hned if necessary with cheesecloth. 

Many people prefer simply to remove the less attractive bits 
and pieces and serve this good soup with a quantity of the vegeta- 
bles left in it. The quantities given here will do at least two meals 
for four people. 

[ 30 ] 



RICE SOUP WITH TOMATOES 

Paradiesapfelsuppe mit Rets 

4 SERVINGS 

6 ripe tomatoes 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup rice salt and white pepper 

1 onion /4 lb. Parmesan cheese 
1 V2 pints water 

Put the butter in a large saucepan to melt, on a low heat. Peel 
and chop the onion finely. Put it to cook gently in the butter, 
stirring occasionally. Plunge the tomatoes in a bowl of boiling 
water and after 2 or 3 minutes, remove them and peel them. Add 
them to the onions and butter. Sprinkle on a Uttle salt and white 
pepper. Scatter the rice on top of them and stir well. Now add 
tlie water, increase the heat and bring to the boil. 

Reduce the heat, and simmer gently for 30 minutes. 

Grate the cheese and pour it in a dish when the soup is served 
so that each person may sprinkle some on top of his bowl. 



SORREL SOUP 

Sauerampfersuppe 

4 SERVINGS 

34 lb. fresh sorrel 1 1/2 soupspoons 

1 pint stock or water butter 

y^ pint buttermilk or 1 egg yolk 

sour cream salt 

3 soupspoons flour 

Clean and wash the sorrel thoroughly. Place in boiling water 
or stock and let boil for 15 minutes. Pass through a fine sieve, 
return to the pan, and let it come to tlie boil again. Now add the 
buttermilk or sour cream and butter, and salt. Mix the flour with 
a httle cold water and then add it to the soup, stirring it in carefully. 
Let the soup simmer for 2 minutes. Put the egg yolk into the 
bottom of the soup tureen. Remove the soup from the fire and 
pour it carefully over the raw egg. Stir gently. Serve at once. 
Hard-boiled eggs cut into new moons may be added to this soup. 

[ 31 ] -^ 



TYROLEAN CLEAR SOUP WITH SLICED 
PANCAKES 

Tiroler Fridattensuppe 

6 SERVINGS 

2 pints veal or beef 4 unsweetened pan- 

stock cakes (Fridatten) 

salt and pepper 

Heat the stock. Cut up the pancakes into narrow strips. Drop 
them in the stock. Simmer gently for 10 minutes and then serve. 



TYROLEAN HORSERADISH SOUP 

Krensuppe 

6 SERVINGS 

6 big cups of beef 1 tablespoon grated 

stock horseradish 

Bring the stock to the boil. Add salt and pepper to taste. Sprinkle 
the grated horseradish over the bottom of the soup tureen or 
individual soup bowls and pour the stock over it. 



[ 32 ]- 



VIENNESE BEEF SOUP 

Wiener Kraftsuppe 

6 TO 8 SERVINGS 

2 cups beef pieces 1 quart strong beef 
1 cup chopped stock 

cauliflower 3 cups croutons 

1 cup shredded 1 onion 

cabbage V^ lb. mushrooms 

2 tablespoons butter salt and pepper 

In a large saucepan, put the butter to melt. Add to it the chopped 
cauUflower, shredded cabbage, the onion peeled and finely 
chopped, the mushrooms also chopped, stalks and all, and the 
beef. Mix them all together, cover the pan and let them cook 
very slowly for about 7 to 10 minutes, shaking the pan occa- 
sionally. Get the stock to boiling point and pour it over the 
vegetables. Let it simmer for a few minutes, removing any scum 
which forms. Add salt and pepper. Make the croutons with 
3 pieces of stale bread. Cut off crusts and cut the bread into 
dice about Y^" cubes. Fry them in hot butter or fat and sprinkle 
them on top of the soup. 



[ 33 ] 



VIENNESE CABBAGE SOUP 

Wiener Kohhuppe 

6 SERVINGS 

1 large cabbage 1 tablespoon flour 

1 quart stock 1 tablespoon butter 

6 sausages (skinless salt 

pork) black pepper 

Clean the cabbage and remove the soiled and biggest tough 
outside leaves. Shred it up finely. Melt the butter in a large 
saucepan and put the cabbage in it until it begins to brown, 
stirring it about so that all sides get sUghtly cooked. Sprinkle the 
flour on, mixing it well in, and cook until the flour also starts to 
brown. In another saucepan, get the stock to boiling point, then 
slowly pour it over the cabbage, stirring aU the time. Season 
with salt and pepper. Reduce heat. Simmer gently for 1 hour. 
Fry the sausages hghtly. Slice them. Add them to the soup just 
before dishing it up. 



VIENNESE CREAMED LIVER SOUP 

Lebersuppe mit Rahm 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

1 lb. calf hver 1 tablespoon cooking 
6 tablespoons sour fat 

cream 2 tablespoons flour 

2 pints meat stock salt and pepper 
1 large onion 2 bay leaves 

Get the fat really hot in a large saucepan. Chop up the hver 
coarsely into pieces about 2" square. Peel and chop up the onion 
very small. Put both hver and onions to fry lighdy in the fat, 
stirring all the time. Gently stir in the flour, hnle by little. After 
2 minutes slowly begin to add the stock, stirring all the time, 
until it is all added. Season with salt and pepper and add the 
bay leaves. Cover the pan. Simmer for 30 minutes. Remove 
the pieces of hver, mince them, and put them back in the soup, 
stirring them well around as you do so. Bring the soup just to 
the boil. Serve in individual bowls with a tablespoon of sour 
cream on top of each. 

[ 34 ] 



VIENNESE MINESTRONE 

Minestra 

4 SERVINGS 

4 slices bacon 1 cup water 

1/2 small clove garlic 1 1/2 V'^^^ stock 

1 small firm cabbage salt and pepper to 

cut in quarters taste 

2 level tablespoons 1 tablespoon grated 
rice Parmesan cheese 

Rub the bacon well with garUc and put into the oven in a casserole. 
When the bacon has become very soft, put into a large pan and 
add the cabbage and water. Cook over a low heat for 20 to 25 
minutes. Then add the stock, seasoning and rice. Cook until the 
rice is completely tender and then stir in the cheese. A sprinkhng 
of cheese may be added at the table. If you wish, throw in a 
few cooked peas and diced carrots a few minutes before serving. 
These should be young and tender. 



VIENNESE ONION SOUP 

Wiener Zwiebelsuppe 

4 SERVINGS 

2 ozs. flour 4 ozs. Parmesan 
4 cups stock cheese 

8 tiny white onions ^2 teaspoon salt 

deep fat-frying pan, black pepper 
full of fat 

Grate the cheese and put it in a bowl. Put the fat in the deep 
frying pan and let it get really hot. Put the stock in a saucepan to 
warm. Mix the flour, salt and pepper well together in a large 
brown paper bag. Peel the onions and cut them into thin rings. 
Put them in the paper bag with the seasoned flour and toss them 
about until they are thoroughly coated in flour. Now put the 
floury onions in the hot deep fat. They will be fried in a minute. 
Remove them and put them on a piece of bro\^Ti paper to drain. 
Bring the stock to boiling point. Add the onions to it, and serve. 
(The bowl of grated cheese is passed aroimd with the soup and 
each person sprinkles it on his soup himself). 

[ 35 ] 



WHITE PEA SOUP WITH PORK 

Erbsensuppe mit Schweinefleisch 

4 SERVINGS 

1 lb. white peas or 8 medium potatoes 

beans (dry) 2 lbs. smoked or 
3 pints water salted pork 

marjoram salt 
1 small onion 

Put the peas to soak the night before you want to make the soup 
If the pork is very salt, leave it in water to soak overnight also 
Get a large saucepan of water boiling and place the pork in it' 
Keep removmg the scum which forms. Add the onion, chopped, 
and the marjoram. When the meat has been boiling for 1 hour, 
add the peas. 30 minutes later add the potatoes. When the 
meat is tender, remove it and cut it into slices and serve it with 
the soup. 



YOUNG VEGETABLE SOUP 

Friihlingssuppe 

4 SERVINGS 

Vi cup new peas y^ cup cauliflower 

4 baby carrots tips 

2 young turnips y^ cup cream 

Vt cup green beans 1 pint clear stock 

a few asparagus .tips salt and pepper 

1 tablespoon parsley 

Put the stock in a large saucepan to heat. Wash the vegetables 
and chop up the carrots and turnips. Break the cauhflower into 
tmy flowerets. Add all these, and the beans to the stock. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. 

Simmer gently for 20 minutes, then add the peas and asparagus 
Simmer for another 7 to 10 minutes. Remove from the fire. Pour 
m the cream. Pour all into a soup tureen or individual plates. 
Chop up the parsley and sprinkle it on top. 



[ 36 ]- 



ALMOND SOUP 

Mandelsuppe 

4 SERVINGS 

^ cup blanched, a tiny pinch of cinna- 

chopped almonds mon 

2 cups milk 2 egg yolks 

1 cup cream level dessertspoon 

^ cup caster sugar cornflour 

Blend the cornflour in a basin with a little cold milk. Place the 
almonds in the rest of the milk over a low heat and simmer gently. 
Mix together the cream, cinnamon, sugar and egg yolks and beat 
until thoroughly frothy. Add the almonds and milk slowly and 
with care to the cornflour, stirring all the time. Stir in the whipped 
mixture and keep stirring until it is all thick and smooth. Serve 
with pufi" pastry sticks (page 200). 



APRICOT SOUP 

Marillensuppe 

4 SERVINGS 

^2, lb. fresh apricots 1 lemon 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 tablespoon corn- 

flour 

Wash and stone the apricots. Put 1 quart of water in a saucepan. 
Add the apricots and sugar, and bring to the boil. Reduce the 
heat and simmer gently for 45 minutes. Then pour the soup 
through a sieve, pressing the apricots through as much as possible. 
Return the sieved soup to the saucepan. Mix the cornflour to 
a smooth runny paste with a little cold water and stir it gradually 
into the soup. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into it as well, and 
serve at once. 



[ 37 ]- 



COLD CHERRY SOUP, 
SOUTH GERMAN STYLE 

Kirschkaltschale 

6 SERVINGS 

2 lbs. fresh black 1 cinnamon stick 

cherries 1 whole lemon 

1 oz. cornflour 6 ozs. sugar 

Stone the cherries. Put them in a large saucepan with nearly 2 
quarts of water. Peel the lemon rind off neatly in one piece and 
add it to the water. Squeeze out the lemon juice and add it, with 
the cinnamon stick and the sugar, to the water. Bring the water 
to the boil. Mix the cornflour with a httle cold water, stirring it 
imtil it is smooth and rimny. Add it gradually, stirring all the 
time, to the soup. Let the soup boil for about 10 minutes, but 
keep stirring it all the time. Remove the ciimamon stick and the 
lemon rind and pour the soup into a bowl. Chill and serve. 



HOT APPLE SOUP 

Apfelsuppe 

6 SERVINGS 

1 lb. sour or cooking 1 cup currants 

apples 1 or 2 tablespoons 

2 tablespoons sugar cornflour 

1 lemon 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup sultanas 1 teacup white wine 

Cut up the apples, skin, core, and all, into small pieces and put 
them into a big saucepan. Grate the lemon rind over them. Cook 
them slowly until the apples are soft. Then press them through 
a sieve into a bowl and return them to the saucepan. Add 4 
pints water, the sugar, currants, and sultanas. Simmer gently for 
30 minutes. Now melt the butter in a small thick saucepan. 
Slowly stir the cornflour into it and then add this mixture to the 
soap gradually, stirring all the time. Simmer for another 10 
minutes and then serve. 

In Austria, larger quantities of sugar and butter are generally 
used. Try experimenting with more of each and see if you like it 
the richer way. 

[ 38 ] 



ISoodles & Dumplings 



It is not quite clear in what country noodles and dumplings 
originated. Italy lays claim to them, and certainly that country 
excels in varieties of noodles and other flour pastes, such as 
macaroni and spaghetti. But Austria, the home of cooks, has 
taken the noodle and the dumpling, from whatever country they 
came, and given them a distinction which can now only be called 
Austrian. 



-[ 39 ]- 



PLAIN NOODLE DOUGH 

Gewdhnlicher Nudelteig 

2 cups flour 14 cup water 

2 eggs salt 

Sieve the flour, add a pinch of salt and heap on a board. Make 
a well in the centre. Beat the eggs and the water together. Drop 
a httle at a time into the well. Work the flour in. Let it drop 
from the sides, until all the egg mixture is used up. The dough 
should be soft. More or less flour may be needed, depending on 
the size of the eggs. Knead with the hands untH the dough is 
smooth. Roll out to paper thickness. Place the sheets of dough 
on a towel and leave to dry. RoU up and cut into strips of the 
length and size required. Leave the strips for another 30 minutes 
before cooking. 

These can be cooked in boihng salted water, or in the liquid 
of any dish for which they are required. 



FINE NOODLE DOUGH 

Feiner Nudelteig 

% cup flour pinch of salt 

2 egg yolks 1 tablespoon water 

Make in exactly the same way as plain noodle dough above. 
Reserve a little flour in case it is needed. 



FARFERL DOUGH 

Farferlteig 

1 cup flour 2 tablespoons water 

1 whole egg 1/2 teaspoon salt 

1 egg white 

Put the flour into a bowl. Beat the egg, egg white, water and salt 
together. Pour into the flour until the mixture forms small lumps 
or crumbs. Place them on a dry tea-towel and leave to dry. 

Drop the crumbs in boiling salted water. Remove with a drain- 
ing spoon. Serve with soups and stews. 

— [ 40 ] 



DOUGH FOR POCKETS 

Teigfiir Tascherln 

1 1/2 cups flour 1/4 teaspoon salt 

1 1/2 tablespoons 3 tablespoons water 

melted butter 1 egg 

Make the dough as described under Plain Dough (page 40), but 
add the melted butter alternately with the egg and water. Divide 
the dough into 4 equal portions and roll each out mto a square. 
Do not roll quite as thin as for ordinary noodles. 

This dough is intended for fiUings, meat, fish, ham and many 
other kinds. It is cut into pieces 11/2 to 2 inches square. 



LITTLE MEAT POCKETS 

Fleischtascherln 

pocket dough 1 egg 

(see above) 1 tablespoon onion 
1 1/2 lbs. cooked beef chopped 

1 tablespoon parsley breadcrumbs 

l^ cup butter, melted salt and pepper 

Mince the meat. Add the onion and chopped parsley. Season 
with salt and pepper. Bind with the beaten egg. If the mixture 
is too soft add a few breadcrumbs. All the ingredients should be 
chopped very finely. The meat can be varied, chicken, pork or 
rabbit. Divide into balls the size of wahiuts. Roll each in bread- 
crumbs. 

Roll out the dough in 4 squares, not too thm. Place each 
meat ball on a square about 2 inches on a side. Place a square 
on top of each filled sheet. Lightly roll together, without stretch- 
ing. Cut out each 2 inch square with a pastry-cutter. Boil the 
pockets in salt water for 15 minutes. Drain carefully. Place on an 
absorbent sheet of paper and brush with the butter which you 
have browned. 



[ 41 ]- 



BACON DUMPLINGS 

Speckknodel 

16 TO 18 DUMPLINGS 



1 V2 cups Chopped pinch of nutmeg 

ham, lean 4 gggs 

1 large onion 2 tablespoons melted 
1 cup breadcrumbs butter 

1 tablespoon chopped salt and pepper 

P^s^^y V2 cup flour 

^rn ^m^""k ' "^^ '^'P "^^ °°^°°- ^°^ ^^ «^on in the butter 

Add ^Itl "^- ^°'' '^' ^^"^ ^ ^^ b"«^^ ^-^^h the o^on 
Add the salt, pepper, nutmeg and chopped parsley. Stir in^the 
breadcrumbs. Beat the eggs and add toThe mixture sS S the 
flour until the dough is fairly stiff. Form into good sized du^pUi^t 

Serve with soup, stews and goulash. 



BOHEMIAN DUMPLINGS 

Bohmische Knodel 

8 slices stale bread, i cup milk 

diced salt 

I ^ggs 3 cups flour 

y2 cup butter 

Take 1 tablespoon of the butter and fry the diced bread crisply 
m It. Cream the remaining butter and gradually add the Sn 

foS Tn T '^''> '°"^. ^' '''' ^^^^"^^^y- B^t until bubSe° 
form on the surface. Add the fried diced bread to the batter 
Make the dough mto dumplings about the size of a soupslo^^^ 
Drop mto boiling salted water and cook for about 15 TZZ' 

ov'eTth:;^ ^r^' °; T- ^°"^ ^ ^^"^^ °^ ^^^^ brow" sau" 
over them. If served alone pour a little browned butter over. 



-[ 42 ] 



BREAD DUMPLINGS 

Semmelknodel 

6 SERVINGS 

1 cup breadcrumbs 2 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons melted 1 teaspoon chopped 

butter parsley 

1 whole egg 1 pinch marjoram 

1 egg yolk V2 teaspoon salt 
a little milk 

Fry the chopped parsley in a Uttle butter. Damp the breadcrumbs 
witii a Uttle milk. Add the fried parsley to the rest of tiie melted 
butter. Beat the whole egg and egg yolk together. Gradually add 
the egg, salt, marjoram and melted butter mixture to the bread- 
crumbs. Mix well and make into small dumphngs with floured 

hands. „ . , 

BoU in stock or soup for 20 minutes. Serve with soup. 



BUTTER DUMPLINGS 

Bu ttermehlnockerln 

4 SERVINGS 

3/4 cup flour 1 whole egg 

1/2 cup milk 1 egg yolk 

1 dessertspoon 14 teaspoon salt 

melted butter pinch of pepper 

Beat the whole egg and the egg yolk together. Add salt and 
pepper to the melted butter. Work all together until well mixed. 
GraduaUy add the flour and milk until a soft dough is obtamed. 
These should be made just before the soup is ready to be served. 
Drop them from a smaU teaspoon into the boihng soup and do not 
allow them to cook more than 10 minutes. They will break up it 

left too long. , , • 

Serve as a garnish for soup, and always cook them in soup 

or stock. 



[ 43 ]- 



CREAM CHEESE DUMPLINGS 

Topfenknodel mit Mehl 



4 SERVINGS 



2 cups flour 5/4 cup butter 

1 cup breadcrumbs 2*/^ cups cream 

It^^^poonsalt '^che^.r"" 

ItX r^g^'aear^hte^'j^f^'f- ^'^ *= """« 
breadcrumbs aff th?rur sir Zt ' ^"f™^'^- Add the 
dough is soft but not too 'fi™ ?f ' ^°°^^ 'P°°° "=^ *= 
Form into little duZ^ ^„, JLT'T '''I " ^"^' ">"*• 

dishes the^ uroiu/I ^X fofVe '^^^ -" ^^ -' 

FLOUR DUMPLINGS 

Mehlnockerln 

ABOUT 16 TO 18 DUMPLINGS 

2 cups flour 1 tablespoon melted 

^^^^ butter 

pinch of salt 

f 4vrrsep"air,Ltrc^ra: : r ^^= ^ -« 

egg volks Ponr . litTi ; ^^^ ^'^^ ^^^ ^"«er and add the 

f ^s u'„r ai,r fliv r beruLdt " n- r 

stock and coo^fof IS' g rul™""^hr ^7 '",° '"""-^ 
to the top they are done. '™"'='- *h™ the dumplmgs rise 
Serve with soup, goulash or stews. 



-( 44 ] 



KIDNEY DUMPLINGS 

Nierenkrwdel 

4 TO 5 SERVINGS 

calf's kidney 1 tablespoon beef 
1 cup white bread- marrow 

crumbs 1 tablespoon butter 

3 egg yolks 1 tablespoon flour 
salt and pepper 

Chop the kidney finely. Melt the butter in a pan and cook the 
chopped kidney. Simmer the beef marrow in a very Uttle water 
for about 10 minutes. Put the cooked kidney in a basin. Add the 
marrow, breadcrumbs, flour and seasoning. Mix well. Beat the 
yolks of eggs and bind the mixture with these. The mixture 
should be firm. If needed, add a httle more flour. 

Make into very tiny balls, about the size of a hazel nut. Drop 
into the simmering soup, stock or sauce about 10 minutes before 
the meal is to be served. 

Serve with soup or goulash. 



LIVER DUMPLINGS 

Leberknodel 

ABOUT 18 DUMPLINGS 

3 cups liver 1 tablespoon 

114 cups bread- chopped parsley 

crumbs 1 teaspoon salt 

134 cups water ^ teaspoon ground 

1 medium sized onion pepper 

2 eggs pinch marjoram 

4 tablespoons butter 

Any Hver can be used, ox, calf, chicken or turkey, but it must be 
free from skin or gristle. Chop it very finely. Chop the onion 
and the parsley. Melt the butter and cook the onion and the 
parsley for a few minutes. Add the Hver, salt, pepper and marjoram 
and cook for another 5 minutes. Moisten the breadcrumbs with 
water and heat for a few minutes until it becomes like a paste. 
Add to the hver mixture Beat the eggs well and stir into the 
dumpling mixture. Leave for about 30 minutes. Add more 

[ 45 ] 



breadcrumbs If the mixture is too soft. Shape into medium-sized 
dumplmgs ( t IS always better to have dumphngs on the small 
side. First of all they swell a lot and secondly they are much more 
attractive if smaU). Drop into salted boihng water and cook for 
about 30 mmutes. They can also be cooked in the sauce or soup 



POTATO DUMPLINGS 

Kartoffelknodel 

If desired as a main dish this quantity will serve 3 people. 



1 tablespoon melted 
butter 

1 cup rice 

2 heaped tablespoons 

ham (lean) 
4 large cooked 
potatoes 



fat for frying 
2 tablespoons flour 
2 egg yolks 
^ teaspoon chopped 

parsley 
salt and pepper 



Cook the nee so that it is dry and separated. Boil the potatoes 
and put them through a masher. Add the rice, cooked minced 
ham, and potatoes to the melted butter, together with the parsley 
Tti^^^'T^f Bind with egg yolks. Form into small balls 
with floured hands. Fry in deep hot fat. Serve with soup 



SNOW DUMPLINGS 

Schneenockerln 



6 SERVINGS 



3 egg whites 
3 tablespoons 
semolina 



% teaspoon of mixed 
salt and pepper 



Beat the egg whites to a very stiff froth. Stir in the semoHna 
and pepper and salt very gradually. Leave for nearly an hour 
use a small teaspoon and drop into boihng clear soup. Thev 
should take about 15 minutes. These are best served u^th white 
soups or any bouillon. 



[ 46 ]- 



VERY SMALL DUMPLINGS 

Csipetke 
(Hungarian) 

4 OR 5 SERVINGS 

2 cups flour pinch salt 

1 egg water 

Sieve the flour and heap on a board. Make a well in the centre. 
Break in the egg, and stir in the flour, alternating with water 
until a stiff dough is formed. Roll out to a thickness of about 
34 an inch. Cut into strips 1/2 an inch wide. Break oflf httle 
pieces with the fingers. These are either boiled in salted water 
or in the sauce of the dish with which they are to be served. 
Generally they are served with goulash. 



TYROLEAN DUMPLINGS 

Tiroler Knodel 

16 TO 18 DUMPLINGS 

214 cups flour 1 cup breadcrumbs 

1 cup chopped ham Y2 teaspoon salt 

(lean) 34 teaspoon pepper 

3 eggs 1 cup milk 

Sieve the flour and put in a bowl. Add the salt and pepper. Make 
a well in the centre. Break in the eggs one at a time and stir 
alternately with the milk, making a nice creamy batter. Put in 
a cool place and leave it for 30 minutes. Heat the chopped ham 
in a saucepan and stir in the breadcrumbs. Allow to get cool 
and stir into the batter. Cover and leave for a further hour. 
Have the water boiling and salted and drop in the batter from 
a spoon. Cook for about 20 minutes. These can also be cooked 
in soup or sauce. 



[ 47 ]- 



HAM PATCHES 

Schinkenfleckerln 

4 TO 5 SERVINGS 

plain noodle dough 2 tablespoons bread- 

(page 40) ^u^bs 

or line noodle dough 3 eggs 

(page 40) ^4 teaspoon pepper 

4 cup butter 1 cup minced hin 

/2 cup cream butter for casserole 

^fdlef Cut te'r^'. '"'"o'"^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^ *^ fo' ordinary 
Melt fh" Sr '^Z^^^- ^t ^^^- ^ouS'andXw^t S:,^ 

to let .L K "^ P];' '" '^" "^°^^d ^^"^^eS Of dough. Allow 

to ge golden brown. Beat the cream and add ihe eggs LduaS7 
Add the noodles to this mixture, then the pepper anTthfiWd 
ham. Be careful with the salt, for the ha^ may already basalt 

Turt theTo^ r"""^^ ^"' ^P^^^ -^ t];et"atrtil1 
4?r^,n . . ??^ °^'^^ ^°^ '^^^ in a moderate oven fo^ 
45 minutes to 1 hour. Serve with salad. 

NOODLE PIE 

Nudehchdberl 
fine noodle dough 1 14 cups milk 

(page 40) 3 tablespoons butter 

^^^ salt and pepper 

extra butter for pan 

fh!m ;„ '^°,'' *™ 'n boiling milk until they are tender. Allow 
hem to cool m the milk. Separate the eggs and beat the bmteT 

them'fo i^h**!'" ' "''^- '" "^'^ '^^ -«^« ^= separate Add 

and Wd in'toT ™'""'- /^' "^= 'S8 "W'" » » ^tiff froth 
and io d in to the mixture. Butter a large heat-proof thick dish 
w„h plenty of butter. Spread the mixture'evenly over tile ^ 
dish. Bake m a moderate oven for 40 to 50 minutes until golden 
brown. Run a palette knife round the edges Z turn out TOs 

or cu^'ur^l, ^"J^ """'' "'"" '"^^ °« Yorkshire puddLg 
or cut up small and served with soup. ^ 

1 48 ] I 



NOODLES WITH CREAM CHEESE 

Nudeln mit Topfen 

4 SERVINGS 

plain noodle dough salt and pepper 

(page 40) 1 cup chopped ham 

1 cup cream cheese 1 tablespoon butter 

Cook the noodles in salt water until tender, about 20 minutes. 
Strain them and shake them up in a sieve to separate them. Put 
the cheese through a coarse sieve and mix with the noodles. 
Melt the butter in a saucepan and shake up the chopped ham 
until really hot. Put the noodles and cheese in a hot dish and 
sprinkle the ham over the top. Serve with salad. 



POPPY-SEED NOODLES 

Mohnnudeln 

4 OR 5 SERVINGS 

plain noodle dough l^ cup ground poppy 

(page 40) seed 

4 tablespoons butter 1 cup sugar 

grated rind of lemon 

Cut the noodles about Y^ "ich by 1 inch. Boil in salted water 
for about 15 minutes. Drain well. Shake to separate them. Add 
the butter soft, but not melted. Mix the sugar, ground poppy 
seed and lemon rind. Sprinkle on the buttered noodles. Shake 
together and s'erve in a hot dish. 



[ 49 ] 



PANCAKES FOR SOUPS 

Fridatten 

6 SERVINGS 

1 cup milk 6 heaped tablespoons 

2 eggs flo^j. 

1 tablespoon butter 

This recipe is given with dumplings, as it is served with soud 
m exactly the same way as dumplings. Make a smooTb "tt"? 
of the flour, eggs and mUk. AUow to stand for at least I h„V,r 
Melt the butter and keep beside you in a cup Use a ver! smaU 
omelette pan. Pour a very Uttle of the butter in and qSvTdd 

UltS C""'^ °/*' '''"'^' *"^' '™"8h » ^™" the pVlhen 

tilted Brown and toss or turn with a palette knife. Do the oAer 

ide the same. Set aside on a close-meshed wire tray. S>n^ue 

hke this mitil aU the batter is used up. Let the panels getTold 

Sfore^rng":" '"''' ""°^' "'^ ^^™^''"- ^'^ - -"P *- 




[ 50 1 — 



Vegetables & Salads 



Austria has a plentiful supply of vegetables through most 
of the year, and besides native vegetables, dozens of 
Lforeign ones are imported into Vienna. Austrian imagi- 
nation and ingenuity and love of good food are reflected in these 
dishes. Their variations on the humble potato for mstance are 

infinite. , , , , i- • 

Many of the stuffed vegetable dishes would make dehcious 
light meals on their own. And the other nice thing about them is, 
they look so pretty, too! , 

We have such a wonderful supply of vegetables m this country, 
with fresh vegetables brought in from the market gardens around 
our towns each day, and every little private garden producmg 
so abundantly, that there is no excuse at all for dull vegetable 
dishes. Here is enough inspiration to supply a different vegetable 
dish every day for more than a month without having the same 
one twice. 



[ 51 ]- 



ASPARAGUS WITH BREADCRUMBS 

Stangenspargel 

4 SERVINGS 

Hb. asparagus 1 cup breadcrumbs 

3 tablespoons butter 

brown the breadcZ,bf4«fLav"I? ' ''^'"«- P"" ""^ 
..>g dish. Sprinkle with breadcrSs M^ek 4"^^^=^^" 
and pour it over all. ^ "^^ butter 

BAKED MUSHROOMS 

Gebackene Pilze 

4 SERVINGS 

1 lb mushrooms 3 small shallots 

/2 pint sour cream salt and pepper 

BrJefa:oT:trv^..r:^,?^i,;':,;p,^^^^^^^^^^^ 

Stem-side downward*; in tL I u tf " '^^^ mushrooms, 

5>aic ana pepper. Bake m a medium oven for 30 minutes. 

BOHEMIAN PEAS 

Bohmische Erbsen 

4 SERVINGS 

1 cup spht yellow salt 

^o uf^ t. '^ tablespoons bread- 

2 ablespoons butter crumbs 

1 large onion 

[ 52 ]- 



the water and put the peas through a mincer or coarse sieve. 
Butter an oven dish. Melt 2 tablespoons butter in a frying-pan. 
Peel an onion and slice it in thin rings. Saute these in the butter 
for a few minutes. When they are soft lift them out with a 
perforated spoon and place them evenly over the peas in the 
dish. Cover them thickly with breadcrumbs and pour the butter 
left in the frying pan over the breadcrumbs. Put in a medium hot 
oven and leave until the breadcrumbs are browned. 



CABBAGE SALAD 

Krautsalat 

6 TO 8 SERVINGS 

1 white cabbage 2 tablespoons wine 

a few caraway seeds vinegar 

1 onion salt and pepper 

dried marjoram boiUng water 

4 tablespoons oUve oil 2 tablespoons 

chopped parsley 

Wash the cabbage and remove any soiled or old leaves. Shred it 
finely. Chop up the onion. Place the cabbage alone in a big bowl 
and pour boiling water over it. After 10 minutes drain off the 
water. Mix together the oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, marjoram, and 
caraway seeds and pour them all over the cabbage. Leave until 
completely cold. Sprinkle with chopped parsley just before 
serving. 

CABBAGE WITH SOUR CREAM 
AND CARAWAY SEEDS 

Kraut mil Rahm 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

1 heart of a cabbage a few caraway seeds 

3 tablespoons sour 1 tablespoon butter 

cream salt 

Melt the butter in a saucepan. Put the cabbage, shredded finely, 
on top of it, pour the sour cream over it, and stir. Sprinkle with 
salt and caraway seeds. Cover tightly and cook slowly at simmering 
point for 1% hours, stirring every 15 minutes or so. 

[ 53 ] 



CARROTS WITH CARAWAY SEEDS 

Mohre mit Kiimmel 



4 SERVINGS 



1 lb. young carrots a few caraway seeds 

1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon chopped 

1 tablespoon flour parsley 

Scrape the carrots and cut them into dice. Put 2 teacups 
water in a saucepan and bring to the boil. Add 1 teaspoon salt 
and put on the lid. Cook for 10 or 12 minutes, then pour off 
the water into a jug and put the carrots to keep warm. In the 
saucepan, melt the butter and stir in the flour, and let it cook 
until shghtly brown. Now pour in the carrot water slowly, stirring 
all the time. Add the caraway seeds and then the carrots, mixing 
them thoroughly. At the last moment add the parsley chopped 
very fine, and stir it in. Serve at once. 



CREAMED SPINACH 

Spinat mit Obers 

4 SERVINGS 

1 lb. spinach ^/2 cup cream 

1 dessertspoon butter white pepper 

2^ tablespoons 
breadcrumbs 

Wash the spinach carefully. Put it dripping wet in a saucepan 
with some salt. Cover it tightly and cook for 7 minutes, shaking 
occasionally. Remove from the fire. Pour off water and sieve 
the spinach. Stir the butter into it, more salt if needed, and 
a sprinkle of white pepper, then put it in a hot serving dish. 
Heat the cream without letting it boil, and then pour it over the 
spinach. Serve at once. 



[ 54 ] 



CUCUMBER & HORSERADISH SALAD 

Gurkensalat mit Kren 

4 SERVINGS 

1 cucumber 1 dessertspoon lemon 
1 tablespoon grated juice 

horseradish 3 tablespoons sour 
1 14 tablespoons olive cream 

oil salt and pepper 

Mix the olive oil and lemon juice together with salt and pepper. 
Slowly add the sour cream, stirring all well together. Peel and 
slice the cucumber and put the sUces in the dressing. Leave to 
chill for 30 minutes. Sprinkle with horseradish and serve. 



DANDELION LEAVES IN SOUR CREAM 

Rohsalat in saurem Rahm 

4 SERVINGS 

1 lb. dandeUon leaves salt and pepper 

14 cup sour cream ^ teaspoon paprika 

Wash the dandelion leaves well. Put them in a bowl and pour 
boiling water over them. Drain well. Get 3 tablespoons salted 
water boiling and put the leaves in it, cover the pan and cook 
for 10 minutes, shaking the pan 2 or 3 times diuring cooking. 
Drain oflF all the water. Chop up the leaves coarsely. In a small 
thick-bottomed saucepan heat the sour cream. Add salt and 
pepper and stir the chopped leaves into it. Reduce the heat and 
let the cream begin to show tiny bubbles but not quite to boil. 
Pour into a serving dish and sprinkle with paprika. 



[ 55 ] 



FRIED POTATOES 

Gebackene Kartoffeln 

4 SERVINGS 

4 large potatoes 2 or 3 bacon rashers 

1 °^f ns 1 tablespoon chopped 

2 tablespoons butter parsley 

Peel the potatoes and cook them in boiling salted water until soft 
but firm. Remove them, slice, and sprinkle with the chopped 
parsley. Let the butter or lard melt in a frying pan and add the 
peeled and finely chopped onions to it. Chop up the rashers into 
pieces about 1/2" square and add them to the onions. When they 
are cooked, add the potatoes and parsley and mix together thor- 
oughly. The mixture should always be moist, not dry, so if 
necessary add a little extra butter or lard. (Add chopped sausage, 

GREEN BEANS WITH FENNEL 

Griine Fisolen 

4 SERVINGS 

2 cups green beans 14 cup butter 

^^^ y^ cup water 

1/2 cup fennel, 1 tablespoon flour 

chopped 1 teaspoon lemon 
1 tablespoon grated juice 

0^0^^ few grains nutmeg 

Get a smaU amount of salted water boiling in two separate 
saucepans. Put the beans in one and the fennel in the other 
Cover both tightly, cook for 10 minutes, shaking the pans 
occasionally. Remove from fire, drain off water. Put beans in 
a warmed dish and lay the fennel on top of them. Keep warm 
while you make this butter sauce: Melt half of the butter in 
a saucepan, blend in the flour well. Gradually add V.; cup 
cold water, a httle at a time, always stirring constantly, "until 
the sauce thickens. Add the rest of the butter, the lemon juice, 
a grating of nutmeg and the grated onion. Do not let the sauce 
boil, or It will curdle, and stir it all the time you are making it 
Pour this sauce over the dish of beans and fennel and serve at once. 

[ 56 ] 



HOT SAUERKRAUT WITH ONIONS 

Gamiertes Kraut 

4 SERVINGS 

2 lb. sauerkraut 2 onions 

1 cup butter salt and pepper 

Simmer the sauerkraut in salted water for 10 minutes. Pour 
off the water. Peel the onions and put them through a mmcer. 
Melt the butter and stir the onions into it. Pour the butter and 
onions over the sauerkraut and serve with Frankfurters, chipolatas 
or other pork meat. 



HUNGARIAN MARROW 

Ungarische Kurbisse 

4 SERVINGS 

1 12" marrow or 2 6" 1 teaspoon Hungarian 
ones paprika 

3 onions 1 cup sour cream 

4 ozs. butter 1 dessertspoon 

parsley 

Cut up the marrow, without peeling it, into finger-sized strips. 
Melt the butter in a frying pan. Peel and chop up the omons as 
small as possible and fry them hght brown in the butter. Now 
add the marrow pieces. Cover the pan. Lower the heat to sun- 
mering point and cook for 30 minutes. Stir the paprika mto the 
sour cream and mix well. Pour this over the marrow. Let it 
heat thoroughly. Chop up the parsley and sprmkle over the 
marrow. It is now ready to serve. 



[ 57 ] 



MUSHROOMCUTLETS 

Pilzschnitzel 

4 SERVINGS 

1 lb. mushrooms i medium carrot 

I'^^'-l^^^ 1 young parsnip 

3 ozs. butter 1/2 lb. green peas 

deep pan of fat 1 egg 

Zf^ r^ 'r^^ "^^ "^^r"' ^^ P'^^^P' Sr^'^ *em into a pile 
Wash but do not peel the mushrooms and chop them up into 
Uny pieces stems and all Melt half the butter in a frying p^ 
Add the chopped mushrooms and let them fry hghtly for 5 
mmutes, stirrmg all the time. Melt the rest of the butter in 
another saucepan. Add the parsnips and carrots to u a^d f^ 
them gently, also stirrmg, for 5 minutes. Then add them to the 
mushrooms, spnnkle with salt and pepper. Lift up d^e ^ture 
with a perforated spoon and put it in a bowl - nL it uTweU 
Beat up the egg and gradually stir the flour into it. Pour this over 
the vegetables. With floured hands, take up a quarter of tLs 
mixture at a trnie and shape each into oval cutlel. Or'f >^u 
prefer, make 8 smaller cutlets. Get the fat smoking ho m 
a deep frymg-pan and fry each cutlet quickly to a deep golde^ 
rir^;!l^.r-------l. S^rveLh salad, X^^^^^ 



rice, or noodles. 



POTATO BALLS 

Erddpfelnudeln 

4 SERVINGS 

6 medium potatoes 2 tablespoons flour 

yolks of 2 eggs ^2 cup fine white 

fat for frying breadcrumbs 

Boil and mash the potatoes very finely. Beat the yolks of 2 eggs 
Save a little for brushing after the balls arc prepared. Mix the' 
yolks in with the mashed potatoes. Shape into httle balls, by 

breadcrumbs. Fry m very hot fat. 
This will be served with a main dish. 

' [ 58 ]— 



POTATO & CHEESE TURNOVERS 

Zillertaler Krapfen 



4 SERVINGS 



1/2 lb. oatmeal flour salt 

3 potatoes 1 tablespoon chives 

1/2 lb. cream cheese 1 small onion 

deep pan of fat or V2 cup milk 
1/2 lb. butter 

Put the flour in a bowl. Little by Uttle stir into it boiling salted 
water until you have a firm but not sticky paste. Knead it well 
and with floured hands roU it out into a large roll about 1 1/2 thick. 
Cut this roU into pieces about 1" long. Take these httle cubes 
and roU each one out flat. Sprinkle flour on each and leave ready 

Peel cut up and cook the potatoes until they are soft. Pour 
off the' water and mash them up weU. Add salt to taste and the 
cream cheese, chopped chives and milk. Peel and chop the omon 
very finely and add it too. Now put a spoonful of potato on each 
flat piece of dough, fold the dough over and press it together so 
that no fiUing can escape. Get the pan of deep fat smoking hot 
and cook the turnovers quickly in it until they are golden brown. 
Serve with sour milk, cream or yoghourt. 

These turnovers are often made using spmach as a filling 
instead of potato. They are also made with jam, prunes, apricots, 
etc. 



[ 59 ] 



POTATOES IN MUSTARD SAUCE 

Senfkartoffeln 

4 SERVINGS 

4 fairly large 1 tablespoon flour 

, P'^'^^^^ 2 tablespoons butter 

1 teacup German i cup stock 

mustard pepper and salt 

y2 teacup bread- 
crumbs 

are sott but snil firm. Remove them and slice them and nut them 
m an oven dtsh. Melt 1 tablespoon of the butter Stir taA° 

^uc^Lthe H k' "/PP" """ *' ™P °f ""^atd. Pour Uiis 
the »n f„H H f f P°;«°«- Sprinkle breadcrumbs all over 

ot butter. Cook in the oven or under a grill until golden brown. 

POTATO PANCAKES WITH SAUERKRAUT 

Blatteln mit Kraut 

4 SERVINGS 

1 lb potatoes a few caraway seeds 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup brown sauce 

2 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons cooking 
1 lb. sauerkraut fat ^ 

^c^^\^l^T^ "U'^-r"' *"" "P """^"^'y- Cook them for 10 
r;^b ^heT^h" "k*""^"^ '^""^ "■''"• D™" off the water and 
Lle!^ K ^ ' "':' ""° " ''°«''- Add 1 dessertspoon salt, 
1 tablespoon butter and the flour. Mix all well together nto 
onTt ^^''""^^''""ifitissticky. Roll into a balfand pace 

about? "Sck°"r-, ■''°'V°"' "* ^ """^^"l ""-"g-P'" "n^ 
hn?,!,^ V ^ '^"' """ ^ "5"=^"- G« the cooking fat really 
wi h hnf'^ ^^ch potato square untU it is golden and crfsp. S,„l 



[ 60 ]- 



POTATO STEW 

Kartojfelgulasch 

4 SERVINGS 

6 medium potatoes salt 

3 onions 1 tablespoon paprika 

3 tablespoons butter a few caraway seeds 
2 tablespoons flour 

Peel the potatoes and cut them in halves. Put the butter in 
a frying pan to get hot. Peel and sHce the onions and fry them 
in the hot butter until they are golden. Now add the raw halved 
potatoes and stir them about in the onions and butter. Sprinkle 
the flour over them and keep turning the potatoes in it for about 
2 or 3 minutes. Now add enough water to cover the potatoes, 
put a lid or plate on the frying pan and lower the heat to sim- 
mering point. Cook for 30 minutes. Add salt, caraway seeds, 
paprika and salt. 

The sauce should be thick and creamy. If it isn't, cook a little 
longer, stirring constantly, until it is. 



POTATO WHEELS 

Kartojfelpuffer 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

2 large raw potatoes lard or melted bacon 

2 eggs fat 

4 tablespoons flour 8 tablespoons apple 

salt sauce or cranberry 

sauce 

Peel the potatoes and grate them shortly before the meal. Should 
a lot of Uquid form, pour som-e away. Add flour, eggs, and salt, 
and stir well. Melt the fat in the frying pan, and when it is very 
hot place 1 tablespoon of the mixture at a time in the fat, 
flattening it out like a pancake. Lower the heat and fry golden 
crisp on both sides. Serve very hot with cold apple sauce or 
cranberry sauce. 



[ 61 ] 



RED AND GREEN PEPPER SALAD 

Roter-und-Griiner-Paprika-Salat 

4 SERVINGS 

2 sweet green peppers salt and pepper 

2 sweet red peppers 2 medium sized 

3 tablespoons olive oil onions 
1 tablespoon lemon 

juice 

Put the whole peppers in a bowl. Pour boiling water over them 
and leave for half a minute. Then plunge them into cold water. 
Leave half a minute and drain. Cut off the stalks of the peppers 
and carefully remove all the seeds. Shce up the peppers in very 
narrow strips. Peel and chop up the onion finely. Put the oil in 
a big wooden bowl. Stir in the lemon juice, salt, pepper and the 
chopped onions. Add the red and green peppers and toss all well 
together. Let stand for 2 or 3 hours before serving. 



RED CABBAGE WITH CHESTNUTS 

Blauer Kohl 

4 SERVINGS 

1 big red cabbage 1 dessertspoon sugar 

1 cup cream 1/2 lb. chestnuts 

2 cups stock 

A delicious accompaniment to port or sausages. Boil the chestnuts 
and peel them. Wash the cabbage and remove any soiled or too 
tough outer leaves. Get a large saucepan of salted water boiling. 
Place the cabbage in it. Cover tightly. Cook for 10 minutes. 
Remove the cabbage from the water and take out its heart, 
disturbing the outer leaves as Httle as you can. (Save the heart 
for another dish, of course.) Chop up the chestnuts and mix 
them with the sugar, and stuff the cabbage with them. Place the 
cabbage in an oven-dish and pour hot stock over it. Cook in 
a moderate oven for 20 minutes. The stock should simmer but 
not boil fast while it is cooking. At the last moment pour the 
cream over the cabbage and serve. 



[ 62 ]- 



SAUERKRAUT WITH APPLES 

Apfelkraut aus Sauerkraut 

4 SERVINGS 

1 lb. sauerkraut salt 

4 rashers bacon 2 teaspoons flour 

4 large apples 1 large onion 
1 cup stock 

Chop the bacon and fry it gently until nearly crisp. Peel and chop 
the onion and add it to the bacon. Let them cook slowly until 
they are soft. Put bacon and onion in a large saucepan with the 
sauerkraut. Pour on the stock. Cover the pan. Simmer for 10 
minutes. Peel and core the apples and cut them up into quarters. 
Put them in the saucepan. Add salt and continue to cook until 
the apples are very soft. Stir in the flour and mix well. Increase 
the heat and remove the saucepan Ud. Cook for 7 minutes, stirring 
once or twice. Serve hot. 



SPINACH BREAD FRITTERS WITH EGG 

Spinatkucheln mit Eiern 

4 SERVINGS 

8 thin slices bread 1 cup fine bread- 
2 lbs. spinach crumbs 

6 eggs 1 cup milk 

2 tablespoons salt and pepper 

chopped parsley butter 

Cook the spinach in a Uttle boiling salted water for 5 or 6 
minutes. Drain and chop it up very finely. Cut the crusts off the 
bread, butter one side of each and cut in two lengthwise. Make 
a sandwich with the spinach as filling. Beat up two of the eggs, 
put them in a shallow bowl. Add the milk, salt and pepper. Care- 
fully dip each sandwich in the egg and milk. Drain it slightly, roll 
it in the breadcrumbs, then fry it crisp in a hot frying pan in 
which some butter is sizzling. Boil the 4 eggs for 7 minutes. 
Plunge them into cold water. Remove, shell, and slice them and 
serve with the fried sandwiches. Instead of the spinach try sweet- 
breads, well cooked and chopped, or sausages. Instead of plain 
bread, try using rolls. 

[ 63 ] 



STEWED CUCUMBER 

Gediinstete Gurke 



6 SERVINGS 



3 cucumbers about 8" 1 tablespoon butter 

, , ^°^S 1 tablespoon flour 

^^"^«° ,. 1 cup stock 

1 clove garlic i cup sour cream 
salt and pepper 

St?r\h^V"'' ^' ""e'^^b^^^- M^It the butter in a saucepan. 
Stir the flour mto It. Stu-, and let the flour cook until it is shghth^ 
^own Slowly a httle at a time, add the stock, constantly sth^hig' 

Add tllr. T '^' S^^'L^^^^^ chopped finely, salt and pepper. 
Add the cucumber shces. Cover the pan and simmer gently for 
15 minutes. Then remove the cucumbers and put ^ hem L 
a hot serving dish. If the sauce is too thin, simmer it a^ttS 
longer to reduce it and then pour it over the cucuS^rs a^d se^e 

STUFFED ARTICHOKES 

Faschierte Ardschocken 

6 SERVINGS 

6 artichokes 2 tablespoons bread- 

2 demons crumbs 

cup cream 1 ib. fresh green peas 

1 oz. butter salt ^ 

2 ozs. cheese 

Vnt in'rS ''^'T"? ^^^h water. Add salt, and bring to the boil. 
Put in the artichokes and cook for 10 to 15 minutes. Drain. 
Butter an oven-dish and place the artichokes in it. Melt the 

abouT whilf T^ P'"' /"; '^' ^''' ^ '' "^^ g^°^y ^hake them 
about while they cook, for about 5 minutes. Then sprinkle 

breadcrumbs and grate the cheese over all. Put in a hot oven 
and leave until the cheese begins to brown. 



[ 64 ]- 



STUFFED CABBAGE 

Krautzviirsteln 

6 TO 8 SERVINGS 

1 large white cabbage 4 tablespoons cream 
1 lb. minced steak or milk 

14 lb. rice salt and pepper 

1 tablespoon parsley a little butter 

2 medium onions 

Pull the leaves off the cabbage except for the small ones at the 
heart. If the biggest ones have a very large middle stalk, cut 
the hardest part of it out. Put the leaves in a saucepan in 2 or 3 
cups of boihng, salted water for 5 minutes. Put the rice in 
a saucepan. Add just enough cold water to cover and one teaspoon 
salt. Cover tightly and cook for 10 or 12 minutes. Put a Httle 
butter in a frying-pan. Add the onions, chopped fine, a httle salt 
and pepper, and when they begin to go soft, add the minced meat 
and cook gently for about 5 minutes. Then put the rice in 
a bowl with the minced meat and onions and add the parsley, 
finely chopped. Remove the cabbage from the saucepan. Take 
each leaf separately, place 2 tablespoons of the stuffing on it 
and roll it up into a neat parcel with the ends tucked in. Lay the 
parcels side by side in an oven dish, but not crammed together. 
When the dish is full, pour the cream or milk over all and cook 
in a slow oven. When done, the tops of the cabbage parcels 
should be hghtly browned. 



[ 65 ] 



STUFFED CUCUMBERS 

Faschierte Gurke 



4 SERVINGS 



4 medium sized 1 tablespoon flour 

cucumbers 2 cups meat stock 

1 lb. minced steak or 1 tablespoon wine 

sausage meat vinegar 

2 tablespoons butter pepper and salt 

Peel the cucumbers. Slice off their ends and scoop out the seeds 
with a long thin spoon. Fry the meat gently in 1 tablespoon 
butter for 2 minutes. Add salt and pepper. Remove the meat 
and stuff each cucumber with it. As each is stuffed, put it in an 
oven dish. Melt the other tablespoon of butter in the frj'ing pan. 
Add the flour and let it cook until it is well browned. Add die 
stock slowly, a httle at a time, stirring constantly. Add the wine 
vinegar and more pepper and salt if necessary. Pour this sauce 
over the cucumbers and put them in a slow oven to cook until 
they are tender, but still firm. 



STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS 

Paprika gefiillt mit Rets 

6 SERVINGS 

8 green peppers 1 cup stock or water 

1 cup rice 3 tomatoes 

1 onion 2 tablespoons goose 

2 breakfast cups sour dripping 

cream salt 

Put a large saucepan on the stove and put the goose dripping 
in it to get hot. Cut off the tops of the peppers and carefully 
remove all the seeds. Shred 2 of them. Put the 6 others 
in the saucepan with the goose dripping, the onion, chopped 
finely, the peeled tomatoes, salt and the rice. Add the stock or 
water. Cover the pan. Cook for about 10 or 12 minutes, 
when the rice should be soft. Remove the 6 whole peppers. 
Lower the heat. Pour in tlie sour cream and simmer for 5 
minutes, stirring all the time. Stuff the peppers with the mixture 
and arrange on a hot plate with mounds of plain boiled rice. 

— [ 66 ] 



STUFFED TOMATOES 

Einfache gefullte Paradiesdpfel 



4 SERVINGS 



4 big tomatoes 
2 big onions 
1% tablespoons 

butter 
6 shallots 



3 tablespoons fresh 
chopped parsley 
salt and pepper 
a little sugar 
a little butter 



Butter a baking dish. Peel and chop very finely the onions and 
shallots. Mix them together with the parsley, salt and pepper. 
Cut the tomatoes in two and scoop out their middles, leaving 
enough at the sides to keep them firm. Fill each halved tomato 
with the onion and shallot mixture and put it in the baking dish. 
Melt the butter and stir about 14 teaspoon sugar into it. Pour 
a Httle of this over each tomato and put the dish in a medium oven 
to bake for 30 minutes. 




[ 67 ]- 



STUFFED TURNIPS 

Ruben mit Pilzen 

4 SERVINGS 

4 turnips about 4" in 1 tablespoon parsley, 

diameter chopped 

% lb. mushrooms 1 large onion 

V'l lb. rice 2 tablespoons butter 

1 tablespoon flour 

Peel the turnips. Cook them about 40 minutes in salted boiling 
water with the hd on the saucepan. While they are cooking, boil 
some rice in salted water for about 12 minutes. Drain it. Fry 
the onions, finely chopped. Chop up the mushrooms, stems and 
all, and add them to the onion, stirring all the time so that 
they do not get overcooked. Add all tliis to the rice and mix it 
well in. Remove the pan from the fire and add finely chopped 
parsley. When the turnips are done, pour oflf the water and put 
it aside in a jug. Cut off the top of each turnip and scoop out the 
middle. Fill each with the rice and musliroom mixture, and put 
them all in an oven dish. Melt 1 tablespoon butter and pour 
it over the turnips. Put the oven dish in a fairly hot oven to heat 
for 10 minutes. In the meantime, melt the other tablespoon 
butter and stir into it 1 tablespoon flour. Let it cook, stirring 
all the while, until it is brown. Now slowly add the water in which 
the turnips were cooked, stirring as you do so. When the turnips 
are ready, pour this over them, and serve. 



[ 68 ] 



SWEET-SOUR GREEN BEANS 

Siifi-saure griine Bohnen 



4 SERVINGS 



1 lb. fresh string ' few grains nutmeg 

beans 1 Vi tablespoons sugar 

3/4 cup water 1 V2 tablespoons 
salt and pepper tarragon vinegar 

1 clove garlic 2 cloves 

1 small onion 2 tablespoons butter 

1 bay leaf 1 tablespoon chopped 

parsley 

String the beans and cut off heads and tails. Put the water in 
a large saucepan and bring it to the boil. Peel and sUce the onion 
and add it with salt, pepper, bay leaf, peeled garHc clove and 
nutmeg to the water. Let these simmer for 10 or 15 minutes, 
then add the beans and cover the pan. Let them boil for 10 
minutes. Pour off the water into a bowl and put the beans in 
a dish to keep hot. Put the hquid back into the saucepan and fish 
out the garUc clove and the bay leaf. Add sugar, vinegar and cloves 
and bring to the boil. Boil until half the hquid has evaporated, 
then fish out the cloves. Now stir in the butter. When it is 
melted add the beans. Chop up the parsley as small as possible 
and stir it in. Serve at once. 

TYROLEAN POTATO BALLS 

Erddpfelnudeln 

4 SERVINGS 

1 lb. potatoes 1-2 tablespoons flour 

1 dessertspoon salt 2 cups fine bread- 

2 tablespoons butter crumbs 

Peel the potatoes and cut them up into fairly small pieces. Get 
a saucepan of salted water rapidly boiUng and put the potatoes in. 
Cover and cook for 15 minutes. Drain and rub potatoes through 
a sieve into a large bowl. Add 1 tablespoon butter and 1 or 2 
tablespoons flour. Work into a smooth dough and with floured 
hands make httle balls about 1/2" in diameter. Get a big saucepan 
of salted water boiling and throw the balls into it. Cook for 5 
or 6 minutes. Fry the breadcrumbs in the rest of the butter until 
they are golden and then hft each potato ball out of the saucepan 
with a perforated spoon and toss it in the breadcrumbs. 

[ 69 ] 



VEGETABLE MARROW PAPRIKA 

Kurbisse mit Paprika 

4 SERVINGS 

1 vegetable marrow i gm sour cream 

about 12" long 2 teaspoons paprika 

2 tablespoons butter salt and pepper 
1 tablespoon flour 

Peel the marrow and cut into pieces about the size of a matchbox 
Sprmkle them with salt. Put a large saucepan on heTtove and 

Zt u "^f 'u ''' ^^'""^ '"^ '^' fl°"^' ^^^ring carefully Very 
gradually add the sour cream, stiU stirring. Season w^tiisak 

TuffnTe" '"^^ " ?^ P^P"'" ^^-S '" tothebou'^Now 
put m the marrow. Lower the heat and simmer for 10 to 15 
nunutes, and leave for 30 minutes. 

VIENNESE BAKED TOMATOES 

Gebackene Paradiesdpfel 

6 SERVINGS 

1 V2 lbs. tomatoes 1 cup cream 

6 shces white bread i/^ lb. Parmesan 

2 ozs. butter cheese 

2 tablespoons anchovy salt and pepper 

P^^^^ 4 pickled cucumbers 

Plunge the tomatoes in a bowl of boiUng water. Leave for S 

1h f r '' '^y "' P°''^^^^- C"^ ^he crusts off the bread 
and cut each piece into 3, lengthwise. Fry the shces in butter 
which you should first get veiy hot, until the^are crtp an" gdden 

ofTdSiTa^tand- ^"' ' r" °''"^^ bread in the Com 
over thrm ^^^'""^fPP^^^hem. Now place a layer of tomatoes 

cheese Tav anoTh ,' '^^^'/^ '^'^' ^''^ ^'^'^^ ^^esan 
each ni... ^fu [ ^'^'' °^ ^'""^ ^" ^OP' ^his time spreading 
each piece with anchovy paste. Add another layer of tomatoes 
al and pepper, then grated cheese, and continue tLse layers' 
lnru'""."u'^'c' 'P^'^'^'^g ^"^^^o^y P^^te on each bread slice 

fiSe for abour,V'"'' '"' ^'^' ^" ^^^^ °^'^^ ^^e tomato dish. 
UaKe tor about 15 minutes m a warm but not too hot oven. 

[ 70 ]— 



VIENNESE CAULIFLOWER 

Karfiol auf Wiener Art 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

1 medium-sized cauli- 6 pickled anchovies 

flower salt and pepper 

2 egg yolks 1 tablespoon parsley 
4 tablespoons cream 2 tablespoons grated 
4 tablespoons milk Parmesan 

2 tablespoons butter 3 tablespoons bread- 

1 lb. sweetbreads crumbs 

Put the anchovies to soak in water. Clean the sweetbreads. Wash 
the cauHflower, cut off the outside leaves, and make a few slashes 
in its base. Get a saucepan large enough to hold it full of water 
and bring it to the boil. Add 1 dessertspoon salt. Put in the 
cauHflower and cover the saucepan. Boil for 10 minutes. Remove 
from stove and drain, but keep it warm. Remove the anchovies 
from their water, take out all bones, and cut them up into tiny 
pieces. Get a httle of the butter melted in a frying-pan. Chop up 
the sweetbreads finely and put them in the butter to cook gently, 
shifting them about so that they do not bum or overcook. Cook 
for 2 or 3 minutes. Put 1 14 tablespoons butter in a small thick- 
bottomed saucepan. When it is melted stir in the flour. When it 
is blended, but before it begins to colour, slowly add the milk, 
stirring all the time. Remove from the fire while you beat up 
the egg yolks with the cream. Add this slowly to the white sauce. 
Now add the anchovies and the sweetbreads, and put the saucepan 
back on the fire to cook gently for 1 minute, stirring all the time. 
Add the parsley, chopped fine. Butter a deep oven dish. Put 
the cauhflower in it. Pour the sauce over and around it and 
cover with breadcrumbs. Place httle pieces of butter here and 
there on top and put in a hot oven for 10 minutes. 



[ 71 ] 



VIENNESE CABBAGE 

Kraut auf Wiener Art 

6 TO 8 SERVINGS 

1 White orred cabbage 1/3 cup wine vinegar 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 dessertspoon flour 
214 tablespoons salt 

butter a little water 

Chop up the cabbage into smaU pieces. In a big saucepan put 2 
tablespoons butter. Add the sugar and let it cook, stirring occa- 
sionally, until It IS brown. Then put the cabbage in the saucepan, 
tossing It about until it is weU coated. Reduce the heat and keep 
stirring all the time for 2 or 3 minutes. Now add 2 tablespoons 
water and a third of a cup of wine vinegar. Get 1 dessertspoon 
butter hot ma frying pan and stir into it 1 dessertspoon flour 
When It is brown, pour a httle of the hquid from the cabbage 
mto it. Stir well and return all to the cabbage saucepan Cook 
stirrmg, for 10 minutes, then serve. ' * 

VIENNESE POTATOES WITH LIVER 
STUFFING 

Kartoffel mit Leberfasch 

4 SERVINGS 

1 lb. liver, preferably 2 tablespoons grated 

calves' cheese 

4 large potatoes 2 onions 

4 tablespoons sour 3 tablespoons butter 

cream salt and black pepper 

Scrub the potatoes and put them in a saucepan of boiling salted 
water. When they are soft but firm, drain off" the water and 
carefully peel off the thin skin - being careful to keep the potato 
mtact Cut each in two, lengthwise, and scoop out the middle 

1 eel and chop up the onions and the hver into small pieces 
Get the butter melted and beginning to sizzle. Fry the onions 
and hver pieces in it for 3 or 4 minutes, then put them through 
a mincer or mouli-grater. Stir in salt and pepper and the scooped- 
out centres of the potatoes. Arrange the potatoes that have been 
scooped out in a buttered oven-dish. Fill each one with the 
hver stuffing. Pour cream over them all and sprinkle with the 
grated cheese. Put in a hot oven until the cheese begins to brou-n. 

' [ 72 ] 



Fish 



The Austrians are brilliantly versatile with fish, and consid- 
ering the fact that all their seafish has to be imported, they 
should put us to shame. We can get as much good fish as 
we want to, and it remains one of the most economical foods on 

The Austrians used a great deal of fresh-water fish, hke the 
carp which they bred in their castle moats or in the monastery 
stewponds, and which they always eat at Christmas and the New 
Year. Austrian fish are frequently sold ahve. It is a common 
sight, especially on Fridays, to see them swimming about m 
wooden troughs in the market places. 

Many of these recipes call for five fish, but since this is rarely 
possible in this country, always see that the fish you buy is abso- 
lutely fresh. A fish should never have dull eyes. 

With water all around us, and the sea never very far away, there 
is no excuse for fish that has lost its first freshness. 

The Austrians Hke highly-seasoned fish dishes, many of them 
with Paprika, and certainly this is a good way of transforming 
a too-familiar fish Hke cod. There is no reason why you should 
not substitute cod or any other fish for the fishes given in these 
recipes, provided you use the same amount. But sometimes ask your 
fishmonger for the more unfamiHar fish. He is sure to have 
them occasionaUy, and you wiU enjoy making their acquaintance. 



[ 73 ] 



BAKED PERCH 

Gebackener Barsch 

4 SERVINGS 

2 large perch 1 ^2 tablespoons 
2, tablespoons capers butter 

4 anchovy fillets grated lemon peel 

1 tablespoon chopped salt and pepper 
parsley 

froJ^^f/T^.'if'''^^ fT^' ^^^^' ^^ ^°"^^^' it i' 3 present 
from a family fisherman! Wash and dry the fillets, and cut them 

into chunky pieces^ Thickly butter four individual earthenware 
dishes with hds Butter the hds as well. Pack the fish pieces 
tightly m each dish, and dot capers over them. Sprinkle on salt 
and pepper and a grating of lemon peel. Cut the anchovy fillets 
into slender strips and lay a few across each dish of fish Put the 
covers on the dishes and bake them in a hot oven for 15 minutes 
Remove from the oven, take ofi" the hds. Sprinkle with finely 
chopped fresh parsley, and serve. ^ 

This is a very good way of cooking smelts, too. 

fhic fil"?^u^' of lemon sauce (page 154) on the side will make 
this fish dish even more deleaable. 

BAKED SOLE 

Gebackene Seezunge 

4 SERVINGS 

^f°^"j 1 tablespoon chopped 
salt and white pepper parsley 

1 tablespoon flour 2 large onions 
4 tablespoons olive oil 

Ask your fishmonger to fillet the soles for you. Peel and grate 
the onions coarsely into a shallow dish just big enough to hold 
the fish comfortably. Add salt and pepper to the onions and pour 
the ohve oil over it, mixing all well together. Take the filletTof 
sole and bury them in this mixture, and bake them in it for 1 
hour. Butter an oven dish. Remove the fillets from the oil and 
omon mixture and roll them up. Place them in the dish side bv 
side and sprinkle them with flour. Put them into a moderately 
hot oven and bake for 15 minutes. Serve with tomato sauce. 

[ 74 ] 



BLUE TROUT 

Blaugesottene Forellen 

4 SERVINGS 

4 very fresh txout 1 dessertspoon salt 

1 pint vinegar big bowl of ice-water 

Do make sure that the trout are absolutely fresh. Get your 
butcher to draw them. Handle them as Httle as possible. Wash 
them gently 1 hour before you want to eat them and sew the 
head of each fish to its own tail with string. Put the vinegar m 
a large saucepan and bring it to the boil. Pick up each fish by the 
string you have sewn it with and dip it into the boiUng vinegar. 
Leave for 1 minute. Then plunge it mto the bowl of ice water 
and then place it on a serving dish. See that each fish is separate 
from the other fish. Leave for 45 minutes. Get a large saucepan 
of salted water boihng. Shde the fish very gently into it, trying 
not to touch them except by the string. Lower the heat and cook 
for 10 minutes in water that is just below boilmg point. Remove 
carefully and serve at once with melted butter poured over them. 
Or, alternatively, chill and serve with a dressing of 3 parts oUve oil 
to 1 part vinegar. 



Bt^CKLINGE HERRINGS WITH EGG 

Biicklinge mit Ei 

4 SERVINGS 

4 herrmgs, preferably 1 tablespoon butter 

Biicklinge ones 8 eggs 

which your fish- salt and pepper 

monger can proba- 
bly supply 

Fillet the herrings and spread the fillets in a large well-buttered 
oven dish, as far apart from each other as possible. Break the eggs 
into the dish around the herrings, taking care to keep the yolks 
intact. Sprinkle salt and pepper on the eggs. Dot the herrings 
with butter. Bake in a moderate oven until the whites of the eggs 
are firm and white. 



[ 75 ] 



CARP WITH HORSERADISH 

Karpfen mit Kren 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 



1 carp, about 3 lb. 

1 onion, 1 carrot, 
1 potato, 1 small 
turnip (all chopped 
fine) 

1 bay leaf 

a pinch of thyme 



dusting of powdered 
horseradish or 
horseradish cream 

2 cups vinegar 

3 cups water 
salt and pepper 



Scale and clean the carp. Remote the head and put it with the 
pot-herbs, seasoning, vinegar and water into a thick pan Boil 
for 20 mmutes. Cut the carp, lengthways and then across, into 
fmly large pieces. Add them to the pan and simmer gently for 
15 mmutes. Serve the carp with the strained pot-herbs and 
some of the hquid, sprinkled with a httle powdered horseradish 
Serve in a hot covered dish. 



CARP WITH PAPRIKA SAUCE 

Paprikakarpfen 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 



1 carp, 2-3 lb. 
y^ cup butter 
juice of '2 a lemon 

1 teaspoon finely 
chopped parsley 

1 chopped onion 
^4 teaspoon paprika 



1 chopped onion 

2 beaten egg yolks 
white pepper 

salt 

1 cup thin cream 

a httle flour 



Scale and clean the carp, removing the head. Allow the butter, 
omon, parsley and lemon juice to simmer in a thick pan until 
golden. Cut the fish into fairly large pieces and roll in flour, 
pepper and salt. Add the fish to the butter mixture, sprinkle 
with paprika and roll well before pouring over the cream. Stir 
in the egg yolks (before the pan is too hot, to avoid curdling). 
Garnish with parsley and sUced lemons, and serve in individual 
dishes. 



[ 76 ] 



COD WITH PEPPER 

Kabeljau mit Pfejfer 

4 SERVINGS 



4 cod Steaks lYz" ^o 
2" thick 

1 parsley root, 

scrubbed and 
quartered 

2 celery stalks (com- 

plete wixh tops) 



1 onion, quartered 
1 small green pepper 

(seeded) 
11/2 cups fish stock 

1 bay leaf 

2 whole allspices 
salt to taste 



Rub the washed and dried fish weU with ground pepper. This is 
now put on one side. Put the vegetables in a large pot or fish 
kettle with a Hd. Cover with some of the stock and cook slowly 
till all are soft. Then lay the fish on the vegetables, cover with 
the remainder of the stock and poach for about 20 mmutes, 
or a Httle shorter time if the fish is rather thin. Remove the fish 
and place in a heated serving dish. Press the sauce through a sieve 
(not too fine, as most of the pulp should come through). 
Note: Carp is used for this dish in Austria, but cod, so good, 
cheap and easy to buy in this country, is excellent. 




[ 77 ]- 



CREAMED CRAYFISH 

Krebse mit Obers 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

2 cups crayfish in i teaspoon onion, 
large pieces finely chopped 

/2 cup mushrooms, l teaspoon parsley, 
chopped finely finely chopped 

3/4 cup melted butter salt and pinch cayenne 
^4 cup wme vmegar pepper 

1 cup cream 

pSLVci'atfiT P"^*^fip^^y chopped mushrooms, onion and 
parsley, crayfish meat and butter. Add a touch of salt and the 

Se'pl^cenrfish''^''/" '' "^"^^^ °^^^ ^ ^- ^-^' ^l 
Se hd on °^^'^;?^^^^ .°"^^ °^ twice but meanwhile keeping 
the hd on. Turn the mixture into a buttered casserole or indi- 
vidual oven dishes. Meantime blend the vinegar and he c^ 
unti thick and pour over the fish. Bake in a mod! rate oven (350^ 
forl5 mmutes, or put it under the grill until browned Serve 
with creamed potatoes or boiled rice. 



CREAMED HERRINGS WITH ANCHOVIES 

Heringe in Rahmsauce 

4 SERVINGS 

4 fresh herrings 8 tablespoons sour 

filleted cream 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup breadcrumbs 

4 small anchovies salt and pepper 

in oU 

Butter an oven dish. Put in the fillets of herring. Cover ^vith 
sour cream. Sprinkle thickly with breadcrumbs Season u^th 
salt and pepper Shce up the anchovies into narrow strips and lay 
along the top of each herring. Dot with butter all ov er Bake 
in a moderate oven for 30 minures. 



[ 78 ]- 



EELS IN WINE 

Aal mit Wein 

4 SERVINGS 

1 eel 2 lemons 

1 tablespoon chopped 2 eggs 

parsley V2 pint stock 

3 glasses dry white .1 tablespoon butter 

wine 1 teaspoon made 
1 tablespoon vinegar mustard 

1 teaspoon sugar salt and pepper 

4 hours before the meal, chop up the eel into 2-inch pieces and 
put these in a jug. Sprmkle them well with salt, and leave them 
in a cold place for 31/2 hours. Then remove them and put them 
in a saucepan, so that they are tightly packed together. Pour the 
wine over them. Chop the parsley finely and lay it on top of 
the eels. Put a tight Ud on the saucepan. Bring the wine to just 
under boiUng point. Reduce the heat, and leave to simmer gently 
until the eels are tender. In the meantime, hard-boil 2 eggs, and 
remove the yolks from them into a bowl. With a fork mash up 
the egg yolks smoothly. Melt the butter and stir it mto the 
yolks. Warm the stock and then gradually add it to the egg and 
butter mixture. Add salt, pepper, made mustard and 1 teaspoon 
of sugar. Slowly add the vinegar. Put this sauce into a saucepan 
and bring it just to boiUng point but do not let it boil. Remove 
the eels and put them in a serving dish. SUce the two lemons and 
arrange them around the eel pieces, and serve, accompanied by 
the sauce in a sauceboat. 



[ 79 ] 



FISH WITH CHOPPED HERBS 

Fisch mitfeinen Krdutem 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

whole small sea or i teaspoon parsley 

nver fish, or fish 2 teaspoons butter 

,/ ^^^ ^ 1 teaspoon flour 

74 lb. mushrooms pepper and salt 
" 1 large onion 

Chop up the parsley, onions and mushrooms and put them with 
butter, salt and pepper to simmer in a covered pan. Dust the 
fish widi flour, pepper and salt and fry gently until both sides 
are golden. Sprinkle half the herbs from the pan, then turn the 
fash and fry agam. Turn once more, sprinkle the remainder of the 
herbs, then turn and fry for a further minute. Serve with water- 
cress sauce (page 159). 

FISH STEW 

Fischgulasch 

4 SERVINGS 

2 lbs. any seafish y^ cup sour cream 

1 teaspoon paprika 1 cup fish or other 

2 tablespoons butter stock 
2 tablespoons flour salt 

1 onion 

Fillet the fishes and remove their scales, guts, heads, and tails. 
Wash, and dry the pieces well in a clean towel. Cut the pieces 
into smaller pieces about 1 inch square. Put the flour on a plate 
and mix It well with a dessertspoon of salt. Roll each fish piece 
m this flour, lettmg it get thoroughly coated. Get the butter 
melted m a saucepan or large thick frying pan. Peel the onion 
and then grate it coarsely into the hot butter. Stir it about a bit 
1 hen add the floury fish pieces. Sprinkle the paprika over the 
fash pieces on both sides, then cover the saucepan with a hd or 
plate and cook gently on a low heat for 10 minutes. Then, 
gradually, pour in the stock, which should be hot, stirring gently 
Simmer for another 10 minutes. Then remove the saucepan 
from the fire and very carefully blend in the sour cream Put the 
saucepan back on the low heat, stir gently until the liquid thickens, 
then remove, and serve at once. 

[ 80 ] 



FISH WITH CAPER SAUCE 

Fisch mit Kapernsauce 

4 SERVINGS 

1 heaping tablespoon 1 wine glass sour 
capers cream 

1 Yi lbs. any white fish 1 tablespoon parsley 

2 onions salt 

1 lemon black pepper 

1 tablespoon butter 

Clean and skin and fillet the fish (saving skin, heads, and tails 
for soup or stock). Cut it up into small pieces. Melt the butter. 
Peel and chop up the onions finely, and fry them in the butter. 
Add the fish to the onions. Add salt and pepper. Gradually stir 
in the sour cream. Add the capers, the parsley, well chopped, 
and the juice of the lemon. Grate a httle of the rind in, too. Stir 
all gently together until everything is well blended, then turn it all 
into a buttered oven dish, and bake for 20 minutes in a moderate 
oven. 



FLOUNDER STEAK WITH ANCHOVY 
SAUCE 

Schollenschnitzel mit Sardellensauce 

4 SERVINGS 

4 steaks of flounder 1 heaped teaspoon 

2 ozs. butter flour 

1 dessertspoon 1 small chopped 

chopped parsley anchovy 

1 tablespoon chopped juice of ^ lemon 

shallots or chives 34 cup fish stock 

or water 

Well wash the fish and salt very delicately. Then sprinkle Hghtly 
with freshly ground pepper. Toss parsley and shallots in melted 
butter over low heat. Raise the heat and fry the fish quickly 
in this mixture till golden on both sides. Remove fish and blend 
flour with the remaining contents of the pan. Add the chopped 
anchovy, lemon juice and stock and cook till a medium-thick 
sauce is arrived at. Return fish to sauce and reheat slowly but very 
thoroughly. 

[ 81 ] 



FRIED MACKEREL 

Gebratene Makrelen 

4 SERVINGS 

4 medium-sized 4 lemons 

mackerels salt and pepper 

2 tablespoons olive oil 

Clean the mackerels and cut off their tails. Peel off the lemon 
rinds in one long peel and then chop it up into small pieces and 
stuff it up the cavity of each fish. Squeeze the lemon juice into 
a low bowl and turn each mackerel in it several times. Then 
leave the fish in it to soak for 30 minutes. Get the olive oil 
smoking hot in a frying-pan and fry the fish in it quickly on both 
sides. Serve with horseradish sauce. 



FRIED OYSTERS 

Gebratene Austem 

4 SERVINGS 

2 dozen large oysters 2 tablespoons grated 

2 small egg yolks Parmesan cheese 

1 tablespoon water 2 tablespoons really 

fine breadcrumbs 

Oysters are of course a luxury, but every hostess owes it to herself 
to serve them once in a while, they are so dehcious . . . 

If the fishmonger opens the oysters for you, he must guarantee 
their freshness. If you prefer to open them yourself, make sure 
that the shells are absolutely tight. Drain and be sure the oysters 
are free of chips. Beat egg yolks with water. Then roll each 
oyster in cheese, dip in egg water, roll in breadcrumbs and fry 
in clean, deep hot fat for 1 minute, or a fraction longer for very 
big oysters. 



[ 82 ]- 



HADDOCK WITH PAPRIKA 

Schellfisch mit Paprika 

4 SERVINGS 

4 good portions Yi cup cream 

of haddock 1 tablespoon paprika 

1 sliced onion salt and ground 

2 ozs. butter pepper to taste 

In a large roasting-pan, fry the onion hghtly in butter. When 
golden, place the fish steaks on top. Beat tlie cream with paprika, 
salt and pepper and pour it over the fish. Bake for 25 minutes, 
or a Uttle longer if the fish is more than 1^" thick. Lift the fish 
from the dish, strain the sauce and serve on top of the portions. 
In serving, a coloured vegetable, such as tomatoes or a side dish 
of green and red pepper salad (page 62), is attractive and appe- 
tizing. 



HERRINGS IN OIL 

Heringe in Ol gebraten 

4 SERVINGS 

4 herrings 2 lemons 

2 tablespoons olive oil salt and pepper 

Cut oflF the heads and tails of the herrings. Scale and fillet them 
by cutting along the backbone and gently easing off the fillets 
with your hand. Wash them and leave them to dry in a clean 
cloth. Now heat some of the oil in a frying-pan. When it is good 
and hot, put the herrings in it and sprinkle them with salt and 
pepper and the juice of the lemons. If the oil seems to be used up, 
add more. Turn the fish fillets and add more salt and pepper 
and lemon juice. Add a Httle more oil, too, if necessary. When 
done, drain the fillets on a piece of crumpled paper, and serve 
them immediately, hot. They are also very deUcious chilled and 
served cold. A mustard sauce (page 159) is a good choice to go 
with them. 



[ 83 ]- 



LARDED FISH 

Gespickter Fisch 

4 SERVINGS 

1 large turbot or cod \\ lb. mushrooms 

1 large piece larding \^ lb. cauliflower 

bacon salt and pepper 

4 onions a little butter 

Clean and scale the fish but leave it whole. Butter a large baking- 
tin. Peel and sHce the onions and lay them over the bottom of the 
tin. Put the fish on top of them. SUce up the bacon into thin 
strips and arrange them all over the fish so that it is entirely 
covered with them. Dot with butter. Season with salt and pepper. 
Bake slowly in a moderate oven, basting every 5 minutes, until 
the fish is tender. The time needed depends on the size of the 
fish. While it is cooking, break the cauhflower into httle flowerets 
and cook them in a Httle rapidly-boihng salted water for 7 
minutes, keeping the hd tightly on the pan. Drain. Fry the 
mushroom caps, unpeeled and whole, in a httle butter, very 
hghtly. When the fish is done, put it in a serving-dish, previously 
warmed, arrange the cauliflower and mushrooms in alternate 
heaps around it, and serve. 



LOBSTER AND COLD SAUCE 

Hummer mit kalter Sauce 

4 SERVINGS 

1 lobster 4 eggs 

1 small onion 6 tablespoons ohve oil 

2 lemons 1 tablespoon French 
salt and white pepper mustard 

2 egg yolks a httle parsley 

The lobster should be alive if possible. Put on a saucepan big 
enough to hold the lobster. Fill it with salted water and bring 
it to the boil. Wash the lobster in plenty of fresh water and then 
plunge it into the boiling water. Boil for 30 minutes, when it 
should be a brilliant red. Remove it from the fire and let it cool 

. [ 84 ] 



in the water, but remove any hard roe from the lobster and save 
it for the sauce. Now put the yolks of 2 eggs into a bowl and 
beat them well. Add olive oil, the juice of the lemons, mustard, 
salt and white pepper, and beat them together with a wooden 
spoon. Hard-boil 4 eggs. SheU them and scrape out the yolks. 
Press the yolks through a sieve and then add them, stirring well m. 
Peel the onion and grate it in also. Take the lobster out of the 
water and carefully remove its shell. Put the pieces of lobster 
meat in the same mixture. Put everything into a servmg dish, 
sprinkle with chopped parsley and serve with very thin brown 
bread and butter. 



MUSSELS IN WINE 

Muscheln mit Wein 

4 SERVINGS 

2 quarts mussels 1 pint dry white wine 

3 tablespoons butter 2 egg yolks 

1 teaspoon black 1 tablespoon flour 

peppercorns 1 cup sour cream 

2 lemons 

Make quite sure that all the mussels are tightly closed when 
you buy them. Scrub them well, and rinse them 3 or 4 times. 
Crush the peppercorns. Put them in a large stewing saucepan, 
with salt and 2 tablespoons butter. Add the wine, the juice 
from the lemons, and the mussels. Bring to boihng point. Boil 
for 1 minute. Then lower the heat and simmer gently until 
every mussel has opened. Take out any half-shells with no fish 
on them. Move the saucepan of mussels to the back of the stove 
to keep hot. In a small thick saucepan, melt 1 tablespoon 
butter. Blend in 1 tablespoon flour, stirring all the time. Beat 
up the egg yolks. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and 
gradually add the egg yolks to the contents. Add the sour cream 
also, very slowly, and stir well. Put the saucepan back on the fire, 
stirring all the time, and gradually add about a cup of the Uquid 
from the saucepan of mussels, blending it in very slowly and 
carefully. When it is smooth and thickening, pour this sauce into 
a warm sauceboat. Put the mussels, including the rest of the 
hquid in which they were cooked, into a fairly deep serving-dish, 
and serve, passing the sauce separately. 

. [ 85 ] • 



PAPRIKA MACKEREL 

Makrelen mit Paprika 

4 SERVINGS 

2 large mackerel i egg 

1 tablespoon 2 tablespoons butter 

Hungarian paprika 2 onions 

black pepper 4 tablespoons sour 



cream 



Cut off the heads and taUs of the mackerel. Clean skin »nH 

chonn^H™- **'" 1 .tablespoon butterinasauce^'andXfte 
chopped-up omons m it imti] thev are soft anH h^ ■ 
brown. Add the fish fillets and tuJn them Lt"v i^fhT? '° 

Zl A^ J"k *' "'™ " ^ ''°*'- Whisk it until iUs 2h^ 

o"*the fish Pnf^r";'.^^'- ""^ P^PP"- M- weu/andfo„r 
fo72n ro of' ■^'■^ "' ' '°''^™ °^=° and leave to cook 

f wfrT f ""T • ^''™ '^'f"">' "" "'« *« fish and pm~n 
a warm servmg-plate m a warm place. Now beat the ^£LT 

rfbuTef^ldH''>''TK"'™-*"'" " "• ^^" the other tawfspoon 

t^:^ .^'':Shtfi^-- = - - i-: 
:a::s"LTt^: z:z::^!' -" -"^ ^-^ not.obo..7otfth': 



SOLE IN WINE 

Seezunge mit Wein 

4 SERVINGS 

4soles,fiUetcd 2 glasses dry white 

4 tablespoons butter wine 

salt and pepper 1 cup white bread- 

crumbs 

It is worth asking your fishmonger to do the filleting of the soles 
for you so that they keep a good shape. Dry them thoroughly bv 
wrappmg them in a clean tea-towel and leaving them fofa' few 
mmutes Melt the butter, and when it is fairly hot (but no^ 
sizzLng) add the fillets. Sprinkle each one with s'alt, pepper Td 

— ' [ 86 ]- 



breadcrumbs. Turn each one over and sprinkle the other sides 
with salt, pepper and breadcrumbs too. The fillets should be 
golden. Lift them out with a fishsUce when they are ready and 
lay them in a hot, Ughtly buttered serving-dish. Pour the wine 
into the frying-pan where the fish were cooked, and stir well. 
Leave it on the fire until it is simmering, and then pour it over 
the fish in the serving-dish. Serve at once. 



TROUT WITH TOMATO AND BACON 

Forellen mit Paradiesdpfeln 

4 SERVINGS 

4 small fresh trout 1 cup milk 

4 large ripe tomatoes 4 slices fat bacon 

2 1/2 tablespoons salt and pepper 

butter 2 tablespoons flour 

Cut off the heads and tails, skin and fillet the fish. Butter an oven 
dish and lay the fillets in it. Cover with the bacon. Put the dish 
into a moderate oven and leave for 15 minutes. In the mean- 
time make the sauce: melt 2 tablespoons butter in a thick sauce- 
pan over a low flame. Add the flour gradually. Warm the milk 
separately nearly to boiling-point and pour it gradually mto 
the flour and butter, stirring all the time. Season with salt and 
pepper. Stir until the sauce thickens. Skin the tomatoes, which 
will be easier to do if you first plunge them into boiling water. 
SUce them and cook them gently in a Uttle butter. When they are 
cooked, add them to the milk sauce. Remove the fish dish from 
the oven and discard the bacon. Pour the sauce over the fish 
and serve. 



[ 87 ] 



TROUT FRIED IN OIL 

Forellen in Ol gebraten 

4 SERVINGS 

4 small trout flour 

olive oil parsley 

fine salt and white 1 lemon 
pepper 

For butter mayonnaise: 

34 cup warmed butter 2 tablespoons 

4 raw egg yolks vinegar 

14 cup oil or more 14 teaspoon salt 

juice of 2 lemons 14 teaspoon pepper 

a little made mustard 

Cut the trout open for about 2" underneath, clean and wash 
^uicWy ms:de and out in cold water. Make 3 o'r 4 crossways shts 
m the fish and dust with fine salt. Place the fish in a bowl or dish, 
cover with oil and leave for 30 minutes. When the fish are taken 
out, dram m a colander. While the oil heats in a pan, dust the 
fish with flour seasoned with a httle salt and white pepper Frv 
turning from side to side, until the fish are golden. Garnish with 
parsley and shces of lemon. Serve cither with melted butter 
Drown butter or butter mayonnaise. ' 

To make the mayonnaise, beat all the ingredients together 
in an clecttic mixer if possible; otherwise beat first with a wooden 
spoon, then with a rotary beater. Chill and serve 



[ 88 ]- 



TYROLEAN TROUT 

Tiroler Forellen 

4 SERVINGS 



2 lbs. filleted trout 
% lb. butter 
salt and pepper 
2 lemons 
1 dessertspoon 
chopped parsley 



1 dessertspoon 

chopped chives 

2 dill cucumbers 

2 tablespoons capers 
2 cups mayonnaise 

sauce (see page 

160) 



For this deUcious quick way of doing trout, you should make 
the sauce a bit beforehand so that it is ready and waiting for the 
fish, which should be eaten the minute it is done. For this sauce, 
chop up the parsley, chives, and cucumbers very small and mix 
them thoroughly, with the capers, into a thick mayonnaise sauce. 
Leave to chill. 

After you have washed the trout fillets, rub each with salt, 
sprinkle it with pepper, and roll it in a plate of flour. Get the 
butter melted and beginning to sizzle in the frying-pan. Put in the 
fillets and fry them quickly on both sides. They should be an 
even golden colour. Put them on a warm serving dish and sur- 
round them with thin shces of the lemon. 

Serve at once with the cold sauce in a sauceboat. 



-[ 89 ]- 



TURBOT WITH MUSHROOMS 

Steinbutt mit Pilzen 



4 SERVINGS 



2 lbs. turbot 

1 onion 

^ lb. mushrooms 

2 lemons 

1 cup olive oil 



a little parsley 
4 tablespoons bread- 
crumbs 
salt 
white pepper 



For this you want a large earthenware or glass oven dish with 
a hd. Wipe it weU aU over with oil, even the hd. Wrap the fish 
in a dry cloth after washing it. Take a sharp knife and gash the 
fish several tunes on each side, slant-wise, then lay it in the dish 
Put the oU m a frying-pan. Chop up the onions and put them in it 
Chop up the mushrooms, skins, stems, and all, and add them 
too. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Stir well. Chop up the 
parsley and add it, with the juice of the 2 lemons. Keep stirring 
and after about 4 or 5 minutes, stir in the breadcrumbs. Toss 
them about weU until they are well blended, and then put all this 
mixture over the fish in the oven dish. Cover the oven dish and 
put It m a moderate oven for about 45 minutes. This is particularly 
good served with green sauce (page 152) or Hollandaise sauce (page 
153). ^ 



a 




[ 90 ] 



Poultry & Game 



k ustxia has so many brilliant ways of cooking poultry and 

/\ game, that one has come to associate them entirely with 
-l~JL Austria. But the origins of a great many dishes lay, 
in fact, in Germany, Italy and Hungary, all regions of gastronomic 
supremacy. 

The hghtness and sparkle of the Austrian cook has, however, 
given the dishes a national individuahty which disposes of their 
origin, and makes them entirely Austrian. 

A most exciting condiment was gained from Hungary. That is 
Paprika or Hungarian Pepper. It is bright scarlet and colours 
as well as flavours the dishes in which it is used. It was introduced 
to Hungary by the Turks, who had dominated them for nearly 
200 years. They in turn had brought it from India. It varies 
in strength. That which is used in Austria is only moderate so can 
be added in tablespoons. 



[ 91 ]- 



Larding 

In Austria and Hungary this is a very" important part of their 
cooking, for poultry, game and meat. It is necessary to have 
a larding-needle. It is rather Uke our packing or carpet needle. 
It must have a very large eye. 

The bacon is cut into strips about an inch or 1 14 inches long. 
Thread it through the eye of the needle and push through the skin 
of the bird or meat which you are cooking. Make the incisions 
small enough, so that a little bit of the fat bacon sticks out each end. 



FRIED CHICKEN 

Wiener Backhuhn 

4 TO 5 SERVINGS 

2 young chickens, not yolks of 2 eggs 

more than butter or fat 

4 months old salt and pepper 

fl*^ur fine breadcrumbs 

Disjoint the chickens. Sprinkle with salt and allow to stand for 
30 minutes. Dip the joints in flour. Brush with the yolks of egg 
(beaten). Now roll in the fine breadcrumbs. Fry in piping hot 
butter or lard until the pieces are golden brown. Drain on paper 
and place at once on a hot dish in a warm oven. Leave for about 
10 minutes. Sprinkle with lemon juice and garnish with 1 or 2 
shces of lemon. Serve with lettuce salad and sliced hard-boiled 
eggs. 

CHICKEN PAPRIKA 

Paprikahuhn 

6 SERVINGS 

2 young frying 3 teaspoons paprika 

chickens yolks of 2 eggs 

4 tablespoons butter salt and pepper 

1 cup sour cream 1 tablespoon sieved 

5 onions flour 

Quarter the chickens. Shce the onions and cook in the hot butter 
until a golden brown. Add the chicken quarters and allow to cook 
until slightly coloured. Sprinkle with the paprika. Dust with 
flour, salt and pepper. Beat the yolks of eggs and add to the sour 

~[ 92 ] 



cream. Cover the chicken mixture with this. Cover the pan and 
simmer for about 20 minutes. This can be served with noodles 
or rice. 

CHICKEN RAGOUT 

Hiihnerragout 

5 TO 6 SERVINGS 

1 medium sized 2 cups of good stock 

chicken 2 tablespoons 

1 stick celery chopped parsley 

1 cup button 2 tablespoons butter 

mushrooms 1 tablespoon flour 

1 carrot salt and pepper 

1 parsnip V2 lemon 

Cut the chicken into joints and smallish pieces. Fry in the butter 
in a deep saucepan. Cover and cook slowly for 30 minutes. Dice 
all the vegetables but leave the mushrooms whole. Add the diced 
vegetable to the chicken, also juice of the 1/2 lemon. Put one cup 
of stock in and cook for another 30 minutes. Remove from heat 
and sprinkle the flour in and seasoning. Add tiie remainder of 
the stock and cook for a few minutes. Lastly add the mushrooms 
and cook for another 15 minutes. Serve in deep dishes with boiled 
rice and chopped parsley. 

GIBLET AND COOKED POULTRY 
RAGOUT 

Gefliigelragout 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

The neck, giblets, 1 or 2 cups stock 

heart and liver of salt and pepper 

any poukry paprika 

any left-over pieces of flour 

cooked poultry goose fat 

4 onions 
Slice the onions and cook in goose fat. Add the ^blets and brown 
these also. Sprinkle with about 1 tablespoon floui and 2 or 3 
teaspoons paprika. Mix gently together. Warm the stock and 
cover the ragout. Season with salt and pepper. Simmer for 1 hour. 
Add the left-over cooked poultry pieces and simmer for a turther 
10 minutes. Serve with macaroni or potato balls. 

[ 93 ] 



CASSEROLE OF CHICKEN 

Gediinstete Huhner 

4 SERVINGS 

Ismail chicken 6 anchovies 

4 tablespoons bread- i teaspoon 

2 tabrpoLs butter iuicfo^fTS^^ 

1 onion chicken stock 

salt and pepper flour 

prSed^TlL'Zm^snpt'y/^ofV^'^ -" "'* «>i^. « if 

47). nooaies (jDage 40), or Tyrolean dumplings (page 

STUFFED CHICKEN 

Gefiilltes Huhn 

6 SERVINGS 

1 young chicken 2 tablespoons boiled 

4shcesoffatbacon green peas 

r?H. "? . ^ °^ f°"^ mushrooms 

1 tablespoon melted yolk of 1 ese 

^"«^^ salt and pepper 

breL^wi^n^l ^H- '""'^ '"^"^^ ^'"P^ ^^«"^ ^ ^^h long. Lard the 
peas aTd thV vf ''"'^^'- ^" ^ ^^^^" "^^^ ^^e cooked rice, he 
S\^ .K °?"J^^°«"^^ cut in pieces, and the melted butter 
SS'l""'' ?' '''^ '^'^^' S^^-" ^"th salt a^d j^p"';- 
stfetral^tTr;^^^^^^^^ 

[ 94 ] . 



ROAST STUFFED CHICKEN 

GefiiUtes Huhn 
ANOTHER METHOD 
4 SERVINGS 

1 small roasting 1 teaspoon salt 

chicken 14 teaspoon marjoram 

Stuffing: 

1 cup fine white 3 tablespoons melted 
breadcrumbs butter 

2 egg yolks V2 teaspoon salt 

1 egg white some freshly ground 

1 cup cream pepper 

1/2 cup butter 8 cooked shrimps 

Pour tiie cream over the breadcrumbs and allow to soak. Add the 
3 tablespoons of melted butter. Cook slowly for about 10 mmutes. 
Beat the egg yolks in a basin, add the salt and pepper. Now add 
this to the breadcrumb mixture. Chop the shrimps and stir them 
into the stuffing. Add the green peas and finally add the white 
of egg beaten stiffly. 

See that enough neck skm has been left to cover the stuffing 
well Dry the inside of the bird and rub with a mixture of the salt 
and marjoram. Stuif the breast only with the above stuffing and 
fold the breast skin over it. Turn the wing flaps under to catch 
the skin and so hold aU in place. Place the chicken in a roastmg- 
pan, breast up. Pour the 1/2 cup of melted butter over the whole 
bird. Bake for 45 minutes or 1 hour, depending on the size and 
age of the bird. 



[ 95 ] 



HUNGARIAN CHICKEN STEW 

Ungarisches Huhnerragout 

8 SERVINGS 

8 joints or portions of y^ teaspoon salt 

young chicken 2 teaspoons paprika 

^°^°"^ , 2 cups of chicken 

^ tablespoons butter stock 

2 tablespoons 2 tablespoons tomato 

chopped parsley puree 

^?t^^X 'T^''' """^ ^"^ "^'"^ ^^^ ^^^ P^^l^y '^ the butter, 
in a th^ck, deep saucepan. Add the chicken portions incluS 
the giblets. Spnnkle with the salt and paprika. ^Coverilwi^tSf 
u^tn r T""' IT. '""^ '''' °" ^"^ ^°^ ^° ^i-°^er very slol 

hnf H^'r^'^" '^'?'v P°''^^^' ^'°^ ^^ P^" a°d place on a very 
hot dish. Strain the hquid left and serve separately ^ 

Plain noodles (page 40), or flour dumphngs (page 44), are a very 
nice addition to this dish. Cook them with the sfew. ^ 



SACHER CHICKEN 

Sacher Huhn 



f> SERVINGS 



1 roasting chicken 2 or 3 lamb's swcet- 

^ cups sausage meat breads 

1 goose's hver Madeira wine 

salt and pepper 

iJ^ir'alt'Ld n?nn''''"Tf "^ ™' " """ '"^ ^^"^^8^ '"^■- Season 
with saJt and pepper. Have some melted butter ready. Chop the 

melted"butter'"m' ''" '^ '"^ ^^"^=«^ '"'^'"-- Cook » Z 
melted butter. When nearly ready add about 3 tablespoons 

f hour" r;- 'J"*"^' ^'=" °f "■= ^l^*" ^'i roast fSS 
1 hour, basting frequently. Serve this dish with a garnish of 

nrp'otlSet ~ '"""^ P"'' "'"'^ ^^°'^' aspa^'agus and 
■ [ 96 ] 



OLD CHICKEN IN SAUCE 

Alte Huhner in Sauce 

6 SERVINGS 

1 old chicken 1 cup brown bread- 
1 onion crumbs 

1 tablespoon butter 1 piece of liver, calf or 
1 bouquet garni ox 

1 cup red wine salt and ground black 

2 cups brown soup pepper 
^ cup vinegar 

Disjoint the fowl, and cut all mto separate portions. For the 
bouquet garni, tie a sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, and a sprig of 
parsley in a muslin bag and set on one side. 

Cut up the hver and the onion. Brown the portions of fowl, the 
onion and the hver in the butter. Add the breadcrumbs and cook 
gently for a few minutes. Put all into a thick, deep pan and cook 
slowly until the contents are nearly dry. 

Pour over this the wine, soup, and vinegar. Simmer gently 
for about 2 hours or until the chicken is tender. About 10 minutes 
before the cooking is finished, put in the bouquet garni and 
allow to simmer for that time. Remove the mushn bag and skim 
the top. 



[ 97 ] 



CHICKEN IN BUTTER SAUCE 

Hiihner mit Buttersauce 

6 SERVINGS 

1 young chicken 2 cups chicken stock 

1 onion 2 tablespoons butter 

1 carrot salt and pepper 

1 stick celery 1 teaspoon paprika 

1/2 teaspoon parsley buttersauce 

(chopped) (page 151) 

34 cup button mush- 
rooms 

Truss the chicken and leave whole. Chop the onion, celery, carrot 
and parsley. Leave the mushrooms whole, with the skins on. 
Cook all these vegetables together in butter in a thick, deep pan 
with the lid on. Place the chicken on this bed of vegetables. Baste 
well with the butter. Replace the hd and simmer gently until there 
is no hquid left. Add the chicken stock and simmer, 'with the lid 
on, until the chicken is tender. Remove the chicken to a hot 
serving dish. Boil the stock for about 10 or more minutes until 
it has become considerably less. Add the butter sauce, and mix 
well. Pour immediately over the chicken. 



CHICKEN IN WINE PASTRY 

Hiihner in Weinteig 

6 SERVINGS 

6 portions of cold wine pastry (page 200) 

cooked chicken deep fat for frying 

salt and pepper lemon 
flour 

Roll the chicken portions in flour which has been peppered and 
salted. Roll each one in the wine pastry. Fry in deep hot fat. 
Garnish with slices of lemon. 



[ 98 ]- 



CHICKEN WITH GREEN SAUCE 

Hiihner mit griiner Sauce 

6 SERVINGS 

1 roasting chicken 2 cups chicken soup 

1 stick celery 2 tablespoons butter 

1 onion flour 

14 cup button mush- salt and pepper 

rooms green sauce (page 152) 

Chop the onion and cook together with the mushrooms in the 
butter. Add a pinch of salt and a shake of pepper. Use a thick 
deep pan. Cut the chicken into portions, making 6 good helpings. 
Add salt and pepper to the flour and roll the chicken pieces 
in this. 

Place the chicken in this mixture. Pour the soup over and 
simmer gently for 1 hour. 

Serve with green sauce. 



ROAST DUCK 

Gehratene Ente 

6 TO 8 SERVINGS 

1 good'Sized duck fresh grape leaves or 

a handful of fresh 
parsley 

This is excellent served cold as the parsley detracts from the 
fattiness. The bird itself must not be allowed to rest in the fat. 
Place it on a grid in the roasting pan. Stuff" the inside with the 
grape leaves or the parsley. Do not seal up. Roast in a moderate 
oven, 15 minutes to each pound. The bird will baste itself. 
Serve with mixed salad. 



[ 99 ] 



ROAST DUCK 

Gebratene Ente 

ANOTHER METHOD 

6 SERVINGS 

1 good-sized young 14 cup milk 

duck 2 eggs 

1 tablespoon butter 1 orange 

(melted) a little red wine 

1 cup white bread- 
crumbs 

Chop the liver and heart of the duck and boil until tender. Soak 
the breadcrumbs in the milk. Add the cooked giblets to the soaked 
breadcrumbs, together with the butter. Season well with salt 
and pepper. Stuff the inside of the bird and roast in a moderate 
oven for about 45 minutes to 1 hour, depending on the size of 
the bird. 

Cut the orange into shces and soak in the red wine. 

Serve duck garnished with these sUces of orange. 



ROAST DUCKLING 

Gebratenes Entchen 

3 TO 4 SERVINGS 

1 young duckhng 6 mushrooms or 1 

1 tablespoon butter cup of button 

1 cup white bread- mushrooms 

crumbs 14 cup cream 

2 eggs salt and pepper 

1 teaspoon chopped 3 chopped shallots 

parsley 

Cook the mushrooms in the butter. Soak the breadcrumbs in the 
cream. To this add the parsley and shallots. Season and bind 
together with the 2 beaten eggs. Stuff the inside of the bird 
with this mixture and roast in the oven for about 30 minutes. 
This depends on the size of the bird. 
Serve with young peas and small new potatoes. 



-[ 100 ] 



MARINATED DUCK 

Hausente als Wildente 

I SERVINGS 

1 large old duck l^ teaspoon ground 

1 teaspoon thyme black pepper 

2 anchovies 

Mash the anchovies and mix the thyme and pepper with them. 
Rub the inside of the duck with this mixture and place it m a large 
basin. 

Marinade: 

1 cup water 2 teaspoons chopped 

2 cups red wine parsley 

1 onion 2 stalks celery 

1 carrot 

Chop the celery and carrot coarsely. Slice the onion. Cover 
with the water and wine. Bring to the boil and let simmer for 
a few minutes. Pour over the duck and allow to stand for 24 hours. 
During that time turn over once or twice but keep covered. Put 
all into a covered roasting-pan and cook for about 2 hours, in 
a very moderate oven. Remove the cover and allow to brown for 
another 20 minutes. Take the bird out and place it on a hot 
serving dish. 

Strain the marinade and thicken it to make gravy. Serve 
separately with dumplings or boiled rice. 



[ 101 ] 



STUFFED DUCK 

Faschierte Ente 

8 SERVINGS 

1 large duck salt and pepper 
^ cup rice boiled 1 onion 

in stock 1 carrot 

giblets 1 stick celery 

1 egg Vz cup cream 
1/2 cup white bread- 1 tablespoon butter 

crumbs marjoram 

1 cup brown soup flour 

Rub the duck very lightly with marjoram. Dust with flour which 
has salt and pepper added. Chop the onion, carrot and stick of 
celery and fry in the butter. Season. Chop the giblets finely and 
add together with the breadcrumbs to the cooked rice. Blend the 
cooked vegetables with the rice mixture and bind all together 
with the egg (beaten). Stuif the inside of the bird with this 
mixture, and roast in the oven. Have the oven a httle over mod- 
erate and allow 20 minutes to the pound. Baste regularly. 

When cooked take the duck out and place on a hot serving- 
dish. Pour off" the fat from the pan and pour in the soup. Add 
the cream. Cook for a few minutes. Pour this sauce over the duck 
before bringing to the table. 

Serve with mixed green salad. 



ROAST GOOSE 

Gebratene Gans 
AND STUFFING NO. 1 

1 young goose 8 lumps sugar 
4 sweet apples salt and pepper 

2 sprigs marjoram rcdcurrant jelly 

Goose stuffings 2, 3, and 4 on pages 103—104, may be used 
instead of the above, if desired. The cooking in each case is 
practically the same. It is best to set a goose on a grid in a roasting- 
pan, as the bird has enough fat of its own for basting. If you wish 
the skin on die breast to be crisp, do not cover the roasting-pan, 
but if you wish it to be soft, then put the hd on. When uncovered 
it is as well to baste it once or twice. 

[ 102 ] 



Rub the bird well with salt and pepper and rub the inside with 
the sprigs of marjoram. Peel and core the apples and put two 
lumps of sugar inside each apple. Stuff the inside of the goose 
with these and leave the back end open. Roast the goose, allowing 
20 minutes to the pound and a little over. Serve with redcurrant 
jelly. 

GOOSE STUFFING NO. 2 

4 large onions 1 teaspoon salt 

2 dessert apples 1 teaspoon mustard 
4 cups white bread- ^ teaspoon ground 

crumbs black pepper 

3 or 4 sage leaves 

Boil the onions until soft. Drain well and chop. Peel and core 
the apples. Cut in quarters. Mix the two together. Stir in the 
breadcrumbs. Chop the sage leaves and prepare the mustard. 
Add these and the salt to the onion-apple mixture. Place in the 
body of the bird. 



GOOSE STUFFING NO. 3 

2 cups chestnuts i/^ cup chopped ham 

6 sweet apples 1 cup boiled rice 

1 cup breadcrumbs 1 egg 

Boil the chestnuts until the peel comes off easily. Peel and cut 
in half. Peel and core the apples and cut in quarters. Mix together. 
Add the chopped ham and the boiled rice. (The rice should be 
boiled rapidly so that the grains are separate). Add the bread- 
crumbs and bind all together with the egg, well beaten. Place 
in the body of the bird. 



-[ 103 ] 



GOOSE STUFFING NO. 4 

1 goose liver 1 egg 

H cup mushrooms 1 tablespoon dry 
Yo cup chopped bacon wliite wine 

1 tablespoon butter salt and pepper 

1 cup fine bread- 
crumbs 

Chop the hver and cook it with the bacon in the butter. Chop 
the mushrooms and cook together for another few minutes. 
Mix together with the breadcnunbs. Add the wine and bind 
together with the egg, weU beaten. Salt and pepper to taste. 
This stuffing can be used as a filling for Vol-au-Vent cases 
(page 212). In this case omit the breadcrumbs and the egg but 
make butter sauce (page 151) and pour over the liver mixture. 



ROAST TURKEY AND STUFFING NO. 1 

Gebratener Truthahn 

1 turkey 1 cup white bread- 
bacon fat for larding crumbs 

several large sheets salt and pepper 

of greased paper ^/4 cup butter 
3 cups finely-minced 1 egg 

veal pieces 

Lard the breast of the bird as directed on page 92. See that 
plenty of breast skin has been left to cover and hold in the stuffing. 
Cook the veal pieces in the butter for a very few minutes. Add the 
breadcrumbs. Mix well and add salt and pepper to taste. Beat 
the egg and bind the stuffing mixture together with this. Stuff die 
breast of the bird with it. As a well-stuffed breast is inclined to 
cook too quickly, place 3 or 4 sheets of greased paper over 
the bird, if possible fastening them underneath so that the turkey 
is entirely wrapped up. With the larding of the breast and the 
steam enclosed in the paper it should be self-basting. Allow 
20 minutes to the pound when cooking and 20 over. 



-[ 104 ] - 



TURKEY STUFFING NO. 2 



18 oysters 

1 cup breadcrumbs 

2 level tablespoons 

butter 
1 teaspoon chopped 
parsley 



grated rind lemon 
1 tablespoon dry 

white wine 
salt and pepper 
1 egg 



Beard the oysters and cut in pieces. Simmer the beards m the 
oyster Uquor and then strain. Mix together the breadcrumbs, 
parsley, lemon rind, and salt and pepper. Melt the butter and add 
it alternately with the wine to the breadcrumb nnxture. Sur m the 
oysters. Add the lightly-beaten egg and enough of the oyster 
hquor to make a soft stuffing. Stuff the breast with this. 



TURKEY STUFFING NO. 3 



2 cups minced 
chicken 

1 cup minced ham 

2 eggs 



1 cup white bread- 
crumbs 
salt and pepper 



Mix the chicken, ham and breadcrumbs together. Add the sea- 
soning. Bind together with the eggs, hghtly beaten. If preferred 
use only the yolks of the eggs. 



TURKEY STUFFING NO. 4 



1 y2 cups truffles 
1 teaspoon chopped 

shallot 
1 teaspoon chopped 

parsley 
Yz cup melted butter 



1 Y2 cups bread- 
crumbs 
2 eggs 
nutmeg 
salt and pepper 



Cook the truffles in the butter and leave to get cold. Cook the 
shallot shghdy. Add to tlie truffles the salt, pepper, pmch of 
nutmeg and parsley. Mix well. Add the shallot and the bread- 
crumbs. Bind aU together with the two eggs, weU beaten. 



[ 105 ] 



TURKEY STUFFING NO. 5 

3 cups of chestnuts 1 tablespoon butter 

Boil and slon. Mash weU. Melt the butter and mix with the 
chestnuts. Put in the body of the bird. 

TURKEY STUFFING NO. 6 

1 cup breadcrumbs i/g teaspoon mixed 
72 cup of grated herbs 

mixed nuts salt and pepper 
1 egg 

Alix together the breadcrmnbs and the grated nuts. Add the salt 
and pepper and the mixed herbs. Bind together with the eee 
weU beaten. Stuff the breast with this ^^' 



ROAST PIGEON 

Gebratene Tauben 

2 TO 3 SERVINGS 

2 or 3 pigeons i large anchovy 
bacon fat for larding (boned) 

1/2 cup chopped 1 onion 

calves' hver y^ cup butter 

14 teaspoon thyme salt and pepper 
1 glass red wine 

Lard the breasts as described on page 92. Melt a httle of the 
butter m a pan and put in the chopped calves' hver, chopped 
aiichovy and chopped onion. Add the thj^nc, salt and pepper and 
the glass of red wine. Cook well and allow to cool a httle Stuff 
tne pigeons with this mixture, and roast the birds in the remainder 
ot the butter. Sour cream can be poured over them if hked before 
serving. Serve with white breadcrumbs, fried in butter. Green 
salad or frmt compote is a very nice addition. 



-[ 106 ]- 



ROAST PIGEON 

Gebratene Tauben 
ANOTHER ZVIETHOD 

2 to 4 pigeons. Allow fat bacon for larding 
1 pigeon to a per- fresh parsley 
son. 

Lard the breasts as described on page 92. Always salt and flour the 
breasts before larding. Stuff the insides of the birds with fresh 
parsley. Roast in a moderate oven for about 30 minutes. 



PIGEON WITH MUSHROOMS 

Tauben mit Pilzen 

6 TO 7 SERVINGS 

6 pigeons 1 teaspoon salt 

4 cups sHced mush- 1/4 teaspoon ground 
rooms pepper 

34 cup butter 1 Vi tablespoons flour 

fresh parsley, chopped 

Clean the birds and spUt them in half. SUce the mushrooms, 
unpeeled, including the stalks. Melt half the butter and put m the 
bottom of a casserole. Put a layer of the sHced mushrooms on top 
of this, then some pieces of pigeon, again a layer of mushrooms 
and pigeon pieces finishing with a layer of mushrooms. Melt the 
rest of the butter and add the salt and pepper. Pour over the 
prepared pigeons. Cover tightly and bake in a very moderate 
oven for about 40 minutes. When cooked, blend some flour and 
add the juice to it. Return the thickened gravy to the casserole. 
Stir aU together and return to the oven for 20 mmutes. 

Sprinkle the chopped parsley over the surface and serve with 
noodles or nockerhi (pages 40, 43). 



[ 107 ] 



GUINEAFOWL 

Perlhuhn 

4 SERVINGS 

1 guineafowl i cup calves' brains 

fat bacon for larding % cup milk 
V2 cup sour cream i onion 

V2 cup butter salt and pepper 
slices of bread 

Clean the guineafowl and lard the breast as described on page 92 
The flesh IS very dry and lean, so this is essential. Sprinkle if with 
salt. Roast m a moderately hot oven in butter. Shce the onion 
into the butter Baste frequently. Time about 45^nu^es 
depending on the size of the bird. Pour in the sour cream. Stew 
the calves brams m milk until weU cooked. Fry the shces of 
bread m butter. Take the bird out of its sauce. Pla7e on a se^mg 
dish, surrounded by the shces of fried bread, on which the calves' 
brains, well drained, have been heaped. Garnish with watercress 
and serve with baked potatoes, blackcurrant jelly and salad' 
Put the gravy in a grav>'-boat. 

ROAST PHEASANT 

Gebratener Fasan 

3 TO 4 SERVINGS 

1 cock pheasant 2 cups chestnuts 

1 cup fat pork salt and pepper 

fat bacon for larding butter for roasting 

Lard the breast of the pheasant as described on page 92. Boil the 
chestnuts Peel and put through a coarse sieve Chop the fat 
pork smaU and mix with the chestnuts. Season with sali, pepper 
and a httle sugan Stuff the bird with this and cook in a moder^e 
oven for about 30 to 40 minutes, depending on the size of the bird 
berve on a bed of watercress ^vith green salad and redcurrant jeUy." 



[ 108 j — - 



ROAST PARTRIDGE 

Gebratenes Rebhuhn 

2 SERVINGS 

2 young partridges salt and pepper 

fat bacon for larding 1 cup sour cream 

Dust the bird with flour and salt. Lard the breast (see page 92). 
Roast in butter in a moderate oven for about 35 minutes. Baste 
frequently. When cooked pour the sour cream over the bird 
in the roasting-pan. Leave for a few minutes to get the flavours 
well mixed. Remove the birds and serve on a bed of vine leaves 
on a serving-dish. Serve the sauce separately. Serve with green 
salad and garnish with sHced oranges. Partridges can be stufl^ed 
with truffle stuffing (page 105), or mushroom stuffing (page 104). 



ROAST SNIPE 

Gebratene Schnepfe 

2 TO 3 SERVINGS 

3 or 4 snipe a httle stock 

fat bacon for covering 1 glass of red xvine 

1 tablespoon chopped 1 egg yolk 

lemon peel several rounds 
brown breadcrumbs of fried bread 

parsley stewed pineapple 

2 or 3 shaUots a Uttle sour cream 

Remove the insides of the birds but do not cut the heads off. 
Cover each bird with a sUce of fat bacon and tie with strmg. 
The long beak is tucked underneath. Roast in a qmck oven m 
butter and stock. They should take about 20 minutes. Chop the 
fiver and hearts. Mix with the chopped shallots, chopped parsley, 
brown breadcrumbs, and lemon peel. Mix with egg yolk and 
a fittle of the wine. Cook in butter until the fiver and heart are 
weU cooked. Fry the rounds of bread in butter. 

Before the snipe are quite cooked, add the remainder of the 
wine and the sour cream to the roastuig pan. AUow to get quite 
hot Remove the birds to a servuig dish. Place the fried bread 
round the birds, pfied with the fiver mixture. Put a few sprigs 
of watercress to garnish and serve with stewed pineapple. 

[ 109 ] 



ROAST HARE 

Geddmpfter Hose 

6 SERVINGS 



I ^^^ ^ 1 teaspoon chopped 

tat bacon for larding parsley 

I ^^^^o^s 2 cups red wine 

? onions 2 cups of stock 

1 clove garlic 1 turnip 

1 teaspoon thyme i bay leaf 

and rosemary grated rind of lemon 

Rub the hare with salt and pepper. Lard it with strips of fat bacon 
see page 92). Shce all the vegetables and place together with^ 

if not hked Cover with the wine and stock. Bring to the boil and 
let simmer for 30 minutes. Now put the hare in the heart of Sis 
and let stew until quite tender. Remove the hare when really 
tender and stram the sauce. Put the hare back in the stew-pj 
which IS now qmte clean and pour the strained sauce over it 
U)ver with the sauce again and add a httle sour cream When 
ready remove the hare and carve it into single portions. Place on 
a dish and cover with the sauce, piping hot. 

Serve with stewed redcurrants or redcurrant jeDy. 



I 110 ]- 



RABBIT PAPRIKA 

Kaninchen mit Paprika 

8 SERVINGS 

2 medium-sized 1 tablespoon tomato 

rabbits puree 

1 green pepper 2 tablespoons butter 

1 tablespoon paprika salt 

1 onion 1/2 teacup sour cream 
1/2 cup water 1 tablespoon flour 

Joint the rabbits and cut into 10 pieces, using only the best. Chop 
the onion and fry golden brown in the butter. Sprinkle the paprika 
over this. Put the pieces of rabbit in it, add seasoning and let cook 
for about 15 minutes. Just have the rabbit browned shghtly. 
Add the water. Cover tightly and let simmer slowly until the 
meat is tender. Sprinkle the flour over and add the tomato puree. 
Stir in the cream a Uttle at a time until the sauce is thick and 
creamy. If too thick add a Httle milk or water. Place the pieces 
in the centre of a deep dish and pour the sauce over. Serve with 
croutons of fried bread as garnish. 



-[ 111 ] 



RABBIT PIE 

Kaninchenpastete 

5 TO 6 SERVINGS 



1 large rabbit 
1 cup of lean pork 
34 cup bacon 

1 tablespoon butter 

2 eggs 



V-z teaspoon thyme, 
parsley and bay 
leaf 

salt and pepper 

short crust (page 199) 



Cook the rabbit in water until tender. Disjoint it and take all 
the meat off the bones. Cut into fairly large pieces. Mince the 
pork and bacon, and cook gently in the butter. Put all in a basin 
and mix gently. Stir in 2 weh-beaten eggs. Add the herbs, salt 
and pepper. Make the short pastr>'. Well grease a shallow, flat 
bakmg-tm and hne with pastry. Spread the rabbit mixture over 
this so that there is just one thick layer. Cover with pastrv' and 
bake m a moderate oven for 40 to 45 minutes. This is verv 
dehcious served cold. Garnish with parsley and cucumber and 
serve witn salad. 




'^^i5j^ 



[ 112 ] 




Meat 



any of us must at one time or another have wondered 
why it seemed impossible to get an ordinary piece of 

beef for roasting, in Austria or Hungary or indeed any 

of the Balkan countries as well. It is really quite simple. Cattle 
are not bred for beef in the same way as here. The cows are kept 
for milking. The bull calves are killed, except those kept for 
breeding purposes, so that before a full-grown beast is slaughtered 
for the table, it must have served a useful hfe in another capacity. 

This scarcity of prime beef, however, has produced a multitude 
of fine recipes for cooking veal and elderly beef, for which we 
should be etemaUy grateful. The undercut or fiUet is the only 
joint that can be compared to our average cuts. Only the very 
rich could afford to slaughter a yearling, so that the recipes for 
joints from such an animal are few and far between. 

On the other hand pigs, in aU stages of their Uves, are made fuJ 
use of. Lambs are killed when very young. They are even roasted 
whole. But after that thev are not lolled until they have yielded 
many bags of wool. So for these— what we should caU— difficult 
cuts" of meat, Austria and Hungary provide epicurean reapes 
which it is hard to beat. 



[ 113 ]- 



VIENNA SCHNITZEL 

Wiener Schnitzel 

5 TO 6 SERVINGS 

2 lbs. veal slices fine white bread- 

2 egg yolks crumbs 

°o^ salt and pepper 

34 cup butter 

The veal for this should be cut from the leg of veal, which has 
been boned, or the fillet. The shces should be beaten out unS 
they are ahnost wafer thin and the fibres broken. Any good 
butcher knows how to do this. If they are too thick you must 
do It yourself. Dip the shces in flour, then in the beaten yolks 

&ld^Ss"^^ "' ^^p^" '^^ '^^° '''''' -^ ^^y ^ *e 

Cook the shces in hot butter until a golden brown. Turn over 
and do both sides. It only takes a few minutes. Place on a hot 
dish and serve immediately, garnished with shces of lemon. 

VIENNA SCHNITZEL 

Wiener Schnitzel 

ANOTHER METHOD 

5 TO 6 SERVINGS 

2 lbs. veal shces, i cup fine bread- 

prepared crumbs 

juice of 2 or 3 lemons 2 egg yolks 

1 cup butter flour 

12 anchovy fillets 1 teaspoon paprika 
salt and pepper 

Marinate the slices of veal in the lemon juice for 1 hour RoU 
them in flour, to which salt and pepper has been added. Dip them 
in the beaten yolks of egg and finally in the fine white bread- 
crumbs. Before cooking prepare the sauce. Melt half of the 
butter and add the mashed anchovies and the paprika. Mix weU 
and keep hot. In the remainder of the melted butter cook the 
schnitzel until a golden brown on each side. They should be firm 
and dry. Serve on a hot dish. Pour the sauce over and garnish 
with shces of lemon, arranged alternately with ohves, stoned. 

-[ 114 ] 



VIENNA SCHNITZEL A LA HASE 

Wiener Schnitzel a la Hase 

4 SERVINGS 

4 fillets veal, weighing 2 eggs 

about 1/4 lb. salt 

breadcrumbs Vi cup butter 

Prepare the veal at least an hour before you are going to cook it. 
The fillets should be cut from the thigh of the calf and should be 
fairly thick. Beat each one out to paper thinness. Be careful not 
to break the meat or even to break the muscles. They should be 
bruised but not broken. Now prepare the coatings. Take 3 soup- 
plates and place them in a row. Put 3 tablespoons flour m one 
and mix 1 teaspoon salt weU into it. Break the 2 eggs mto: the 
next one and beat them hghtly with a fork. In the tinrd plate put 
about 2 tablespoons breadcrumbs. Take a piece of meat, cover it 
weU with flour, shake off any surplus. Now dip it into the egg, 
seeing that it is weU covered. Again dip into the breadcrumb plate 
and cover the piece of veal completely. 
Do the same with all four pieces and leave them on one side 

for an hour. , . , , , , , 

Fry in melted butter fairly slowly. Both sides should be cnsp 
and golden brown. Garnish with sHces of lemon and serve im- 
mediately. 

STUFFED VEAL 

Gefiillter Kalbsbraten 

6 TO 8 SERVINGS 

1 leg veal 1 cup breadcrumbs 

4 onions 2 egg yolks 

1 calf's kidney fat 

salt and pepper sour cream 

Remove the bone from the leg and flatten out the meat. Chop the 
onions and calf's kidney small. Brown in a httle fat Add the 
breadcrumbs, salt and pepper. Bind with the yolks of eggs, weU 
beaten. Place on the veal. Roll up and tie with strmg. 

Roast in butter in a moderate oven. Allow 25 minutes to the 
pound and an extra 25 minutes if necessary. Do not serve under- 
done. When finished pour the hot sour cream over and serve 
with salad. 

[ 115 ]- 



PAPRIKA VEAL 

Paprika -Kalbsschnitzel 

4 SERVINGS 

1 lb. thin slices fillet lemon juice 

,/ ^.^^^ 1/2 cup stock 

/2 pint sour cream 2 tablespoons flour 

;°^°^^ salt and pepper 

1 tablespoon paprika 

^Tr!T' ^^ "^'^t °^ ""^ ^° ^"°^°" ^^^'^ f°r 1 hour. Slice the 
ZSa D^ Z^'T "^r" r- '"^^ ^^°-^- Sprinkle wf^ 
Sate mn^ T ^ f ''"'V^ ^°^^ ^^ brown them in a 
separate pan. Lay the browned slices of meat on top of the 
omons. Cover the pan and cook over a low heat for 5 or 6^miutes 

stock. Add salt and pepper. Pour over the meat and cook for 
another 5 minutes. Serve piping hot. Serve witrverfmaU 
dumphngs (page 47) or bacon dumplings (page 42) ^ 

Veal chops or steaks can be used in this recipe. Follow the same 
mstruaions but allow longer for cooking. 

VEAL STEW 

6 TO 7 SERVINGS 

2 lbs. stewing veal 1 lb young carrots 

fat bacon for larding 1 jb. young turnip« 



lat bacon tor lardmg 1 jb. young turnips 

i°^°" 1 lb new potatoes 

^°"^ ¥2 cup butter 

^*^°^^ salt and pepper 



Roll the meat in flour which has been salted and peppered. Lard 
It with strips of bacon as described on page 92. Chop the onion 
and put m a deep casserole in the butter, melted. Simmer for 
a few minutes. Scrub the young carrots and turnips and leave 
them whole. Place the meat on the onion and put the young 

tightly. Cook in a fairly hot oven for 20 to 25 minutes. Now put 
m the new potatoes and a cupful of good stock or soup. Cook 
quickly for another 20 minutes. Take off the hd and incase the 
hea to allow the top to get golden-brown. Serve in the casserole 
as It IS. 



[ 116 ] 



STUFFED LOIN OF VEAL 

Gewickelter Nierenbraten 

6 TO 8 SERVINGS 



loin of veal 

1 cup fine white 

breadcrumbs 
4 mushrooms 
1 dessertspoon 

chopped parsley 
grated rind of lemon 
juice of 1 lemon 



1 34 cups minced fat 

bacon 
4 anchovy fillets 
1 cup stock 
1 egg yolk 
salt and pepper 
^ cup melted butter 



Remove the bones and skin from the loin. Rub over with lemon 
juice. Chop the mushrooms and bacon and mash the anchovies. 
Mix together with the breadcnmibs, parsley and grated rind of 
lemon. Season with pepper and salt and moisten with the egg 
yolk. If this is not enough, add a Uttle milk. Stuff the loin and 
roll up. Tie with string or skewer it together. Brown in a large 
casserole in the melted butter, turning to get it all brown. Pour 
over the stock and roast in a moderate oven until tender. Do not 
cover. It should take 25 minutes to the pound. Turn it several 
times. Serve the sauce separately. 



VEAL GOULASH 

Kalbsfleischgulasch 

4 TO 5 SERVINGS 



breast of veal 
1 cup chopped bacon 
1 chopped onion 
1 cup cream 
1 cup chopped car- 
rots and turnips 
salt and pepper 
1 teaspoon paprika 



1 tablespoon tomato 
puree 

4 chopped mush- 
rooms 

14 cup butter 

1 cup white stock or 
soup 



Melt the butter in a casserole. Have the veal chopped in fair- 
sized pieces. Put these, the chopped bacon, onion, mushrooms, 
carrots and turnips into the melted butter. Allow all to cook for 
a few minutes, browning sHghtly. Add the salt, pepper and paprika. 
Mix together. Add the white stock and continue simmering until 



[ 117 ] 



the meat is tender. Add the tomato purde and cook for a further 
few minutes. Lastly stir in the cream and allow to get quite hot. 
Serve with noodles or potato balls (pages 40, 58). 

LEG OF VEAL LARDED 

Gespickter Kalbschlegel 

8 TO 10 SERVINGS 

4 to 5 lbs. leg of veal 2 tablespoons capers 

1 lbs. good bacon i^ cup butter 

or uncooked ham 1 onion 

12 anchovies 2 cups white wine 

1/^ teaspoon ground 1 cup cream 

pepper 

Do not bone the leg of veal. Make a number of holes in the 
surface with a skewer or ice pick. Cut the bacon into httle chunky 
bits about 1 inch long. Into each hole push a piece of bacon and 
a bit of anchovy. Seal the holes over with butter. Shce the onion. 
Melt the butter in a roasting-pan and put the leg of veal and the 
onions in it. Pour the wine over. Cover the pan and cook very 
slowly for about 2 hours, depending on the size of the joint. 
Allow 25 minutes per pound and 25 minutes over. Now add the 
capers and the pepper and cook for another 15 minutes. Place the 
joint on a serving-dish and pour the sauce into another saucepan. 
Pour in the cream and reheat but do not allow to boil. Serve 
separately. Serve with salad and rice or noodles. 



ROAST VEAL WITH KIDNEYS 
AND PAPRIKA 

Kalbsnieretibraten mit Paprika 

8 TO 10 SERVINGS 

5 or 6 lbs. leg of veal 14 cup cream 
2 veal kidneys ] 4 cup water 

^4 cup butter 1 tablespoon paprika 

Bone the leg of veal. Spread the kidneys, on which the fat has 
been left, hberally with paprika. Put the kidneys in the bone 
cavity in the leg. Tie neatly with string in 3 places. Melt the 
butter in a roasting-pan. Put the joint in this. Pour the cream 

[ 118 ] 



and water mixed over all. Roast uncovered and baste frequently, 
in a moderate oven. Time 25 minutes to the pound and 25 minutes 
extra. Thicken the sauce with flour and serve separately. 

Garnish with cucumber and serve with green salad and saut6 
potatoes. 

CALVES' BRAINS 

Kalbsgehim 

1 small onion 1 bay leaf 

2 black peppercorns calves' brains 
melted butter juice of 1 lemon 

Wash the brains and boil for 5 minutes in water to which you 
have added the onions, the peppercorns and the bay leaf. Remove 
the skin of the brains and place in a saucepan with 1 tablespoon 
melted butter and the juice of the lemon. Cook slowly until 
the brains are tender. Season with salt and pepper. Sprinkle with 
chopped parsley and serve immediately. 



FILLET STEAK LARDED 

Lungenbraten Filets 

4 SERVINGS 

4 fillets of steak 8 mushrooms 

fat bacon for larding 2 lamb's kidneys 

several sHces of a few truffles 

smoked tongue |/2 cup butter 
salt and pepper 

Have the steaks about ^4 inch thick. Cut the bacon and smoked 
tongue into very thin inch lengths. With a larding needle lace 
the steaks with alternate strips of bacon and tongue. Season with 
salt and pepper. Cook very hghtly in half the melted butter. 
The inside should be underdone. Slice the kidneys and truffles. 
Cook these together with the mushrooms in melted butter. Serve 
the steaks very hot, garnished with the mushrooms, sUced kidneys 
and truffles. Pour a httle melted butter over them. 



[ 119 ] 



ROAST FILLET OF BEEF ESTERHAZY 

Esterhazy Rostbraten 



8 SERVINGS 



3 lbs. fillet of beef 1 teaspoon chopped 

4 carrots parsley 

2 onions 14 cup butter 

2 sticks celery 2 teaspoons capers 
2 parsnips 1 teaspoon paprika 

1 cup brown bread- y^ cup Madeira wine 

crumbs 1 cup cream 

brown stock salt and pepper 

^4 cup minced bacon 

The fillet of beef should be about 11/2 inches thick and in one 
piece. Prepare a stuffing from one onion chopped finely the 
parsley, capers, minced bacon and breadcrumbs. Moisten 'with 
a httle of the brown stock. Cut a deep slit in the meat and push 
this stuffing in, spreading it as much as possible between the top 
arid bottom. Chop the carrots, the other onion, the celery and 
the parsmps. Fry aU these very hghtly in some of the butter 
When they are soft, sprinkle with a httle flour and add the cream 
and the brown stock. Mix well. Put the meat for a few minutes 
under the grill and seal both sides. Now place the meat on the 
vegetables in the sauce. Cover the pan and cook for about 30 min- 
utes. Baste occasionally. Lastly add the Madeira and cook for 
another 5 minutes. This can be served in the casserole, or the 
meat put on a serving-dish and the sauce served separately. 



[ 120 ] 



BOILED BEEF 

Gesottenes Rindjieisch 

8 TO 10 SERVINGS 

4 lbs. beef (rump or 1 bay leaf 

brisket) 6 stalks celery 

2 lbs. chicken giblets, 3 carrots 

or rough parts, 2 small onions 

such as neck, legs 4 sprigs parsley 

etc. 2 pimentos 

1 large onion, 6 peppercorns 
unpeeled 

Put the chicken parts and the vegetables cut in large pieces in 
a large saucepan. Add the peppercorns, pimentos, parsley and 
bay leaf Cover weU with water and bring to the boil. Now let 
simmer for about 2 hours. The beef should be in a neat piece, 
not too fat. Bake the large onion in its skin in the oven for about 
30 minutes. Place the meat in a large deep heavy pot with the 
baked onion. Strain the stock and cover the meat with it. Brmg 
to tlie boil and then lower the heat. Simmer for 2 to 21/2 hours. 
Test the meat from time to time as the length of cooking depends 
on the thickness and age of the beef. This should be served with 
horse-radish cream and noodles (see page 40). 



TYROLEAN BEEF 

Tiroler Speckbraten 

ABOUT 8 SERVINGS 

3 to 4 lbs. lean melted butter 

beef chopped onions 

fat bacon for larding pepper and salt 

Dust the joint with pepper and salt. Lard the beef with the sttips 
of bacon as described on page 92. Use a thick roastmg-pot. Pour 
the melted butter over and cover tightly with the lid. Cook 
slowly until tender, probably 2 hours. 
Serve with horse-radish cream. 



[ 121 ] 



VIENNESE STEWED BEEF 

Wiener Saftbraten 

8 TO 10 SERVINGS 

6 lbs. lean beef i cup brown bread- 
4 onions crumbs 

^ ^'^rots pinch mace 

1 ^^^^P' 'A cup butter 

3 green figs ^alt and pepper 

3 cups white wine flour 

2 cups brown stock 

Grease a large heavy casserole with butter, including the lid 
Chop the onions, carrots, turnips and figs. Melt some butter 

^if'^T^u T'''°!'- ^"' ^ ^^ ^^°PP^d ^^getables and the 
meat, which has been dusted with salt and pepper, in the casserole 
Roast m a moderate oven for 1 hour. Baste oc^ionall^Poi^ 
off any excess fat and cover the meat and vegetables with the 
brown stock. Return to the oven and simmer Intil the meat is 
tender. Stu- m the breadcrumbs, the pinch of mace and any other 
seasomng you may hke. Lastly stir in the white wine, 
berve m the casserole with potatoes. 

MEAT LOAF 

Faschierter Braten 

4 TO 5 SERVINGS 

1 lb. lean beef 3/^ teaspoon mixed 

1 lb. pork herbs 

1 cup white bread- y^ cup cream 

, '^^"^^bs 14 cup butter 

salt and pepper 2 eggs 

a little milk 

Mince the beef and the pork. Soak the breadcrumbs in a little 
milk. Mix the two together. Add the herbs. Bind with the two 
eggs, weU beaten and well seasoned with salt and pepper Shane 
this mixture into a loaf. Melt the butter in a roasting pan and 
place the loaf m it. Bake in a moderate oven for about 1 to 1 1^, 
hours. About 10 minutes before removing from the oven, add the 
cream to the juice round the loaf. Serve with macaroni or noodles. 

[ 122 ] 



HUNGARIAN GOULASH 

Ungarisckes Gulasch 

4 TO 5 SERVINGS 

1 lb. beef steak 1 dessertspoon 
1/2 lb. lean veal paprika 

2 onions 1 lb. tomatoes 

2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon chopped 

1 teaspoon salt parsley 

Remove any skin and fat from the meat and cut into inch cubes. 
Chop the onions and add these, together with the pieces of meat, 
to the melted butter in a thick casserole. Brown evenly. Add salt, 
pepper and paprika. Skin and slice the tomatoes. Lay them on 
top of the meat and onions. Cover tightly and cook slowly for 
about 1 hour. Serve on a flat dish surrounded by piped mashed 
potatoes or macaroni. Garnish with chopped parsley. 



HUNGARIAN GOULASH 

Ungarisches Gulasch 

ANOTHER METHOD 

4 SERVINGS 

1 1/2 lbs. lean beef 1 tablespoon paprika 

5 onions a few caraway seeds 

1 clove garUc salt and pepper 

2 cups stock or soup 1 tablespoon butter 

Cut the meat into inch cubes. Melt the butter in a thick casserole. 
Shce the onions and cook them in this until they are golden brown. 
Add the meat cubes, the garhc, crushed, the paprika and the 
caraway seeds. Season with salt and pepper. Cover the casserole 
and cook until the meat is sUghtly browned. Now cover with the 
soup or stock. Simmer for about 11/2 hours. Dumphngs can be 
served with this, but it is usually accompanied by noodles or 
macaroni. 



[ 123 ] 



ox TONGUE WITH HORSE-RADISH 

Ochsenzunge mit Kren 

6 TO 8 SERVINGS 

1 ox tongue i tablespoon melted 

2 tablespoons grated butter 

horse-radish 4 tablespoons cream 

^^"P'^^f^ 1 tablespoon white 

2 egg yolks breadcrumbs 

salt and pepper a little mustard and 

vinegar 

Boil the tongue in salted water for 2 hours Removp frr.n, *i. 

Remove from the heat and mix in the tablespoon of melted buS; 
and the cream, also the breadcrumbs. Return to theTeat and "n" 
mttil the mixture thickens. Strain the sauce and stir in the beaten 
LIS tl r^ar'^""" ^'* salta^^d pepper andah^muS 

the^o'vS?""'' '"' "^^ '""^ ™ " "»' ''"'^^ ^^ -'i PO- 



— [ 124 J 



TONGUE WITH CAPER SAUCE 

Zunge mit Kapernsauce 

6 TO 8 SERVINGS 



1 ox tongue 

1 cup sour cream 

2 small onions 

1 teaspoon chopped 

parsley 
^ cup white wine 
1 cup brown stock 

or soup 



1 tablespoon capers 



cup butter 



34 cup flour 
juice of 1 lemon 
14 cup of finely 
chopped Hver 



Cook the tongue as in previous recipe. Put the onions, chopped 
finely, together with the parsley and liver in a thick saucepan in 
half the butter. When golden-brown add the stock and the wine 
and simmer. With the flour and the rest of the melted butter 
make a paste and add the lemon juice. Stir this in to the sauce 
but do not let it boil. Lastly add the cream and the capers. 

Ser/e the tongue whole and pour the sauce over it on the 
serving dish. 



CARAWAY GOULASH 

Kwnmelfleisch 

3 TO 4 SERVINGS 



1^ lbs. of lean beef 
1 onion 
a few cloves 
vinegar 



^ teaspoon caraway 

seeds 
y2 teaspoon paprika 
salt 
water 



Stick the cloves into the peeled onion. Cut the beef into smallish 
pieces. Put the beef pieces, the onion, the caraway seeds and 
paprika into a thick pan with enough water to cover. Add a little 
vinegar and salt. Simmer until the meat is tender. 
Serve with noodles or macaroni. 



[ 125 ] 



VIENNESE 



1 lb. minced beef 
1 lb. minced pork 
1 egg 
grated rind of 14 

lemon 
Yi cup butter for 

frying 
3 tablespoons 

chopped onion 



HAMBURGERS 

Klops 

SERVINGS 

2 tablespoons 

chopped parsley 
2 tablespoons butter 

for patties 
% teaspoon ground 

pepper 
1 cup breadcrumbs 
juice of 14 lemon 
^ cup white wine 



Separate the egg. Cream 2 tablespoons butter and add the egg yolk. 
Add the minced meats, lemon rind, seasonings and the bread- 
crumbs, soaked in milk. Last of all fold in the white of egg stiffly 
beaten. Divide into patties about % inch thick. Let stand for 
30 minutes. 

Melt 14 cup of butter in a fiying-pan. Add the parsley and 
omons and fry golden-brown. Raise the heat. Put the patties 
m and brown them quickly on both sides. Turn down the heat 
and add the lemon juice and wine. Allow to cook for 20 minutes 
over a low heat. Serve the patties on a hot serving-dish with the 
sauce in a separate bowl. 



BRAISED OXTAIL 

Gediinsteter Ochsenschlepp 

8 SERVINGS 



1 ox-tail (about 4 lbs.) 

1 carrot 

1 onion 

1 parsnip 

outside stalks of one 

head celery 
1. tablespoon sugar 
1 tablespoon flour 



8 cups water 
Yz cup vinegar 
Y2 teaspoon thyme 
1 bay leaf 
6 peppercorns 
5 allspice 
1 clove garUc 
1 cup cream 



Cut the oxtail in 2-inch pieces with a knife, not with a chopper, 
so that the bone is not splintered. 



[ 126 ] 



Slice the carrot, parsnip, and onion. Chop the celery. Add all 
to the water and vinegar, together with the spices. Bring to the 
boil and while hot pour over the pieces of oxtail. Leave soaking 
for 2 days. Bring to boiling-point. Lower heat and let simmer 
for about 2 hours or until the meat is tender but not falling away 
from the bone. Remove the oxtail pieces and place on a hot 
serving-dish. Strain the vegetables and put on one side until cool. 
Remove as much of the fat as possible. Melt the sugar in a thick 
saucepan and allow to turn golden-brown. Add the strained 
vegetables. Shake the flour over these and add the strained Uquid. 
Cook for 15 minutes. Strain again and sieve the vegetables. 
Return to the saucepan and bring to boiling point. Add the cream 
but do not allow to boil again. 

Replace the oxtail pieces. Serve in a large casserole, with 
noodles or dumplings. 



HUNTSMAN'S BEEFSTEAKS 



8 SERVINGS 


8 slices of beef steak 


1 large finely 


each weighing 


chopped onion 


about y2 lb. 


4 finely chopped 


y^ lb. bacon cut 


anchovies 


into dice 


1 tablespoon capers 


salt 


1 large pickled 


3 tablespoons butter 


gherkin 


for frying 


V2 cup sour cream 


2 to 3 tablespoons 




flour 





Wash the meat and beat until very thin but not broken. Fry the 
onions in butter. When cool add the anchovies. Spread this 
mixtvure on the pieces of meat. Add the gherkin cut into long thin 
sUces, the diced bacon and capers. Now roll up the meat. Tie 
with string and fry slowly in butter on all sides. Should the 
butter get too brown add a Uttle water. Now cover the frying-pan 
or pot and let the meat cook slowly for 3 hours. Baste fre- 
quently. During the last 30 minutes add the sour cream, httle by 
Httle. Lastly pour the sauce through a fine sieve, add the flour, 
boil slowly for 5 minutes. Remove the string and serve the meat 
separately from the sauce. 

[ 127 ] 



MEAT IN VINEGAR 

Saiierbraten 

ABOUT 8 SERVINGS 

4 lbs, lean beef 2 bay leaves 

without bone 6 peppercorns, black 

5 pints water and white 
1 pint wine vinegar 

Wash the meat and place in a basin. Cover it with the water, 
vinegar, peppercorns and bay leaves. The water should be boiling' 
Leave overnight. Next day, wash the meat and roast as usual. 
Use half suet and half butter. Roast in a moderate oven and allow 
15 minutes to the pound. 

POT-ROASTED LAMB 

Gediinstetes Lammfleisch 

8 SERVINGS 

1 fore-quarter or 1 cup butter 

shoulder young 1 y^ teaspoons salt 

^snib 1 cup water 

1 clove garhc 

Rub the joint with the garlic. Place in a roasting pan and pom- 
over it the butter, melted. Sprinkle with salt. Add half the water. 
Cook in a slow oven for about 2 hours, with the hd on. Add water 
as needed. The meat should not be allowed to brown. 
Serve with salad and rice. 



ROAST LOIN OF MUTTON 

Gebratener Schopsenriicken 

6 TO 8 SERVINGS 

loin of mutton 1 onion 

fat bacon for larding flour 

1 carrot 1 cup brown stock 

1 parsnip salt and pepper 

1 small turnip 

Cut the bacon into strips and lard the loin as directed on page 92. 
Dust with flour to which you have added salt and pepper. Chop 
the vegetables and the onion. Place the joint in a covered roasting- 

f ^2^ J ■ 



pan Surrounded by the vegetables. Add 2 tablespoons of the 
brown stock. Bake in a moderate oven for about 1 1/2 to 2 hours, 
depending on the size of the loin (30 minutes to one pound). 
When cooked pour over the remainder of the stock. 
Serve surrounded by the vegetables, the gravy separate. 



LEG OF MUTTON 

Schdpsenschlegel 

6 TO 8 SERVINGS 

leg of mutton 1 small turnip 

fat bacon for larding 2 cups brown stock 

2 onions 2 glasses white wine 

2 carrots salt 

2 parsnips ground pepper 

4 stalks celery 

Lard the leg of mutton very freely as directed on page 92. Salt 
and pepper it lavishly. Chop the vegetables and the onions. 
Place these in the bottom of a covered roasting-pan. Place the 
leg on top. Cover and cook in a moderate oven for l^^ hours. 
Pour the brown stock over and roast again, turning the leg. It will 
probably take 2 hours, depending on the weight of the joint. 
Finally add the wine. Allow to get quite hot. Serve the meat on 
a hot serving-dish surrounded by the vegetables. Serve the gravy 
separately. 

LAMB COOKED WITH MUSHROOMS 

Lammfleisch mit Pilzen 

2 TO 3 SERVINGS 

8 sUces of lamb 1 cup mushrooms 

14 cup butter 1 dessertspoon flour 

1 teaspoon chopped butter sauce 
parsley (page 151) 

Soak the sUces of meat in hot water. Cook the mushrooms and 
parsley in the butter. Remove the sUces of meat from the water 
and dust them with the flour. Add these to the cooked mushrooms 
and butter. Stir them together. 
Place on a hot deep dish and pour over the butter sauce. 

, [ 129 ] 



STUFFED SADDLE OF LAMB 

Gefullter Schopsenriicken 

8 TO 10 SERVINGS 

saddle of young lamb 1 teaspoon chopped 
6 shallots parsley 

1 oiiion 1 cup chopped lean 

2 eggs ham 

V2 cup beef marrow salt and pepper 

1 tablespoon butter fat for roasting 

1 cup breadcrumbs stock & flour for gravy 

Remove the bones and as much fat as possible from the saddle 
Trim neatly and rub all over with the onion (or a clove of garhc),' 
salt and pepper. Let it stand overnight in a cool place. Chop the 
ham, parsley, shallots and marrow very finely. Cook until golden 
in the butter. Season with salt and pepper. Add the breadcrumbs 
and bind together with the 2 eggs, well beaten. Stuff the saddle 
with this. Roll and tie with string. Roast in a moderate oven for 
about 1 to 1 1/2 hours, depending on the size of the saddle. Baste 
frequently. Pour off some of the fat, leaving about 2 tablespoons 
hquid. Thicken this with flour and add brown stock for gravy. 
This dish is served with the gravy poured over. 



STEWED MUTTON 

Gekochtes Schdpsenfleisch 

6 SERVINGS 

4 cups mutton pieces 1 dessertspoon 
3 cups water paprika 

1 cup vinegar 4 onions 

1 tablespoon parsley salt and ground black 
(chopped) pepper 

Chop the onions. Put them with the mutton pieces into the water 
and vinegar. Add the salt, ground black pepper and paprika. 
Bring to the boil and simmer slowly for about 1 ' ; to 2 hours, 
or until the meat is tender. Serve very hot with the chopped 
parsley sprinkled over the top. 

DumpHngs or potato balls (pages 43, 58) are usually served with 
this dish. 

[ 130 ] 



BREAST OF LAMB IN MARJORAM SAUCE 

Schopsenbrust in Dostensauce 

8 SERVINGS 



4 lbs. breast young 
lamb 

1 large onion 

2 teaspoons crushed 

marjoram 



4 tablespoons flour 
6 large cooked 

potatoes 
water 
salt 



Cut the breast into small pieces. Do not bone. Put the pieces 
and the onion, quartered, in a saucepan. Add a good pinch of 
salt. Cover with water and bring to the boil. Let simmer for 
1 hour. Strain the hquor from the meat, and leave to get cool. 
Skim off the fat. Blend the flour with the fat and add the strained 
Uquor. Reheat and stir until it is creamy. Add the crushed 
marjoram. In the meantime the potatoes have been cooked and 
allowed to cool. Cut in shces. Put the meat and the potatoes 
in alternate layers in a casserole, finishing with a layer of potatoes. 
Pour over the marjoram sauce. Reheat in the oven and then brown 
hghtly under a grill. 

Serve with beet salad and endive or chicory. 




■^nK)^ 



■[ 131 ]- 



LAMB'S HEAD 

Lammskopf 

5 SERVINGS 

1 lamb's head 1 carrot 

1 lamb's heart 1 parsnip 

1/2 a lamb's liver 2 stalks celery with 

2 onions green tops 

3 cups brown stock 1 tablespoon butter 
flour salt and pepper 

1 clove garlic 

Soak the lamb's head in salt water. Clean and wipe with a cloth. 
Simmer in salted water, just covering, until the flesh comes away 
from the bones easily. Melt the butter in a thick saucepan. Chop 
the lamb's heart, the carrot, parsnip, celery and onions. Add to 
the butter and cook very slowly. Chop the hver and add to this 
and cook again for about 15 minutes. Add the meat from the head. 
Sprinkle with flour, pepper and salt. Add the clove of garUc and 
cook until all are well mixed. Now slowly add the brown stock, 
and allow to simmer for 10 minutes. Do not boil rapidly. The 
sauce should be fairly thick. 

Serve in a casserole, very hot, with young green peas or green 
beans. 



[ 132 y 



ROAST LEG OF PORK 

Naturgebratener Schweinschlegel 

8 SERVINGS 

leg of pork 1 teaspoon paprika 

1 clove garlic water 

1 14 teaspoons salt 

Cut the rind through in strips for crackling, if the skin has been 
left on. Mash the clove of garlic with the salt and paprika. Rub 
the meat with this mixture. Let stand for at least 1 hour. Place 
the leg skin side down in a roasting pan. Add about 4 cups 
boiling water and cook until the skin is tender. Turn the skin side 
up and increase the heat. The skin should be brown and crisp 
when finished. Baste frequently. 

Time for cooking a leg is 40 minutes per pound. Loin can be 
cooked the same way but the cooking time is 35 minutes per pound. 
Serve with rice or noodles and any vegetable. Use the natural 
juice as gravy. 



BOILED LEG OF PORK 

Gekochter Schweinschlegel 

8 TO 10 SERVINGS 

1 leg of pork 2 onions 

2 carrots 1 clove garUc 
2 parsnips 2 allspice 

1 small turnip 6 peppercorns 

12 medium-sized salt 

tomatoes 1 Yz cups white wine 

Wipe the leg of pork with a damp cloth. SHce the vegetables and 
onions. Put these and the leg of pork into a large saucepan. 
Add the garhc, allspice, peppercorns and salt. Bring to the boil 
and simmer imtil the meat is cooked (35 minutes to the pound). 

Skin the tomatoes and boil in the white wine, season with salt. 
Simmer until they are reduced to a pulp. Strain. This is usually 
served shced on a hot serving-dish with the sauce poured over. 

Dumplings or noodles should accompany it. 



[ 133 ] 



STUFFED LEG OF PORK 

Faschierter Schweinschlegel 

8 TO 10 SERVINGS 

leg of pork 1 egg 

1 carrot i/^ cup breadcrumbs 

1 parsnip grated Parmesan 

1 stalk of celery cheese 

2 tablespoons capers salt and pepper 
plain boiled rice 1 cup brown soup or 
4 small onions stock 

6 anchovies 

Take the bone out of the leg of pork. Wipe with a damp cloth. 
Rub salt and pepper inside and out. Chop the onions, anchovies 
and capers finely. Mix with the breadcrumbs and bind with 
a well-beaten egg. Stuff the leg with this. Fold over and tie with 
string. Slice the vegetables and place in a roasting-pan with 
a little fat. Set the stuffed leg on the bed of vegetables and cover. 
Roast in a moderate oven, allowing 35 minutes to the pound. 
Turn from time to time. When nearly cooked pour over a cupful 
of good brown soup and continue until quite cooked. Take the 
lid off and sprinkle the meat with grated Parmesan cheese. Allow 
to get golden-brown. 

Lift the meat out and serve on a hot dish surrounded by the 
vegetables, strained. Serve the gravy separately. Boiled rice, 
noodles or macaroni can be served with this dish. 



SUCKING PIG 

Spanferkel 

8 SERVINGS 

1 sucking pig 1 tablespoon capers 

lemon , salt and pepper 

1 cup cream 

The pig should have been prepared for roasting, cleaned and 
washed but the head left on. Dust with salt and pepper. Put in 
a large roasting-pan. Place slices of lemon on top. Roast in a mod- 
erate oven until golden brown. This may take V/2. to 2 hours 
depending on the size. 

[ 134 ] 



Chop the capers and mix with the cream. Heat sUghtly. Place 
the pig on a large dish. It is usually garnished with lemon and 
one whole in its mouth. Pour over the caper cream. Serve hot. 



BAKED HAM 

Gebackener Schinken oder Schinken in Brotteig 

1 ham (about 10 lbs.) cold water 

mild cured bread dough (Milch- 
5 juniper berries brot) (page 181) 

1 bay leaf butter sauce 
bunch of parsley (page 151) 

Put the ham in cold water with the crushed jumper berries, thyme, 
bay leaf and parsley. Bring slowly to the boil and simmer for one 
hour. Allow it to get cold in the water. Make bread dough 
(page 181). Drain the ham and pat it dry with a dry towel. Allow 
the dough to rise for the second time. Knead it until smooth. 
RoU out to 1/2 inch thick. Place the ham on the dough, top side 
down. Wrap it up as a parcel, damping the edges to seal. With 
a fork prick the dough several times to allow the steam to escape 
during cooking. Turn the sealed side down. Bake in a slow oven 
for 31/2 to 4 hours. If the ham has been boned, allow another 
45 minutes for baking. This can be served hot in the dough. 
If it is to be served cold, allow to cool in the dough. Then remove 
the dough and skin together. Cover with fine golden toasted 
breadcrumbs. Serve garnished with cut truffles, hard-boiled eggs 
and cucumber. Butter sauce (page 151) to which has been added 
1 tablespoon French mustard and 1 teaspoon brown sugar, can be 
served with this, either hot or cold. 



-[ 135 ] 



PORK WITH CABBAGE 

Schweinefleisch mit Kraut 

5 TO 6 SERVINGS 

2 lbs. lean pork 1 dessertspoon 

3 large onions paprika 
Yz cup sour cream 1 cabbage 

salt and pepper 1 cup hot water 

2 tablespoons butter 

Cut the pork in inch sUces. Slice the onions. Cook them in 
1 tablespoon hot butter. Sprinkle with the paprika. Add the 
hot water and the pork pieces. Season with salt and pepper. 
Cover and simmer for about 1 hour. Shred the cabbage. Put in 
a thick pan with 1 tablespoon butter and the cream. Simmer 
also for 1 hour with the pan covered. Season with salt and pepper. 

When both mixtures are cooked add them together. Mix well 
and cook for another 30 minutes. 

Serve heaped on a hot dish with boiled potatoes. 



STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS 

Gefullte Paprika 

6 SERVINGS 

6 green peppers 1 egg 

% lb. minced pork 1 onion 

Vi cup rice 1 dessertspoon 

1 clove garhc paprika 

salt and pepper tomato puree 

Boil the rice until cooked but the grains separate. Cut the stalks 
off the peppers and remove the insides, seeds and ribs. Wash them 
well and drain tliem. Crush the clove of garhc and mix with the 
minced pork and chopped onion. Season with salt and paprika. 
Add the cooked rice, and lastly the beaten egg. Stuff the peppers 
with this. Place in a fireproof dish and pour over I'o cup of tomato 
pur^e. Bake in a moderate oven until the peppers are tender. 
Serve with noodles (page 40). 



-[ 136 ]- 



Egg Dishes & Pancakes 



The egg becomes more versatile than ever in the ingenious 
hands of the Austrians. Many of these recipes, which were 
used as side dishes, are quite filling enough to be used as 
main dishes for lunch or light suppers, and especially for children's 
teas. The variations are endless. There are so many different 
kinds of Austrian pancakes and fritters, that it is hard to translate 
their names. For instance, the Schmarrens are very thick pancakes, 
and the Palatschinken are very thin. And there are some that are 
a cross betv\^een fritters and pancakes, or souffles and custard. 
Some go into soups and stews. Some get sweet fillings and become 
puddings. Some get decorated and become hors d'oeuvres. You 
can never complain that eggs are dull in the hands of the Austrians. 



[ 137 ] 



PLAIN OMELETTE 

Eier Omelette 

4 SERVINGS 

6 eggs 2 tablespoons butter 

salt and pepper 

Beat the eggs gently together and add the salt and pepper to taste. 
Heat the butter in a pan, and when hot pour in the beaten eggs. 
Reduce the heat and cook until the underside of omelette is set 
but not burnt. Now roll up and serve. The omelette should be 
rolled while still shghtly wet at the centre, as it should be soft at 
the centre when served. 



ROLLED EGGS 

Gerollte Eierspeise 

4 SERVINGS 

4 eggs 2 cups minced 

salt and pepper chicken 

butter 1 cup minced ham 

34 cup milk 1 cup breadcrumbs 

2 egg yolks 

First prepare the stuffing. Soak the breadcrumbs in milk. Mix 
together with the chicken, ham, salt and pepper and bind together 
with the beaten egg yolks. Place in a circular tube mould which 
has been brushed with butter. Steam for at least 2 hours or even 
longer. 

Now beat up the 4 eggs with a httle salt. Melt a piece of butter 
in a frying-pan. Pour in enough of the beaten egg to form a httle 
pancake. Put some of the stuffing in the centre of this. Roll up 
the pancake, secure it with a cocktail stick and keep aside in a warm 
oven while making the rest of the pancakes in a similar manner. 

Serve hot with salad and puree of potatoes. 



[ 138 ]- 



BAKED EGGS WITH HAM 

Eierkuchen mit Schinken 

4 SERVINGS 

5 slices of bread 2 teaspoons chives 

6 eggs pinch of pepper 
^ cup chopped ham ^ teaspoon salt 
2 cups milk 

Remove the crust of the bread, which should be very stale. Pour 
the milk on it and let it soak. Beat it into a batter. Add the salt 
and pepper and break in the 6 eggs. Beat this thoroughly until 
well mixed. Add the chives and the chopped ham. Mix again 
and put into a buttered casserole. Bake in a slow oven for 45 
minutes. 



AUSTRIAN EGGS 

Osterreichische Eier 

4 SERVINGS 

4 eggs 2 anchovies 

1 shce cooked ham 2 teaspoons ohve oil 

2 teaspoons vinegar 2 mushrooms 
salt and pepper 

Hard-boil the eggs. Remove the yolks carefully, cutting the 
whites in half. Put the yolks in a dish. Poach the mushrooms 
until tender and chop them finely. Mix with the egg yolks. Chop 
the ham and add to this mixture. Chop the anchovies and mix with 
the oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Blend aU these ingredients 
together into a nice paste. Stuff the halves of egg wliite. 

Serve on httle dishes, with some of the mixture surrounding 
them. 



-[ 139 ] 



EGGS WITH BLACK BUTTER 

Eier mit schwarzer Butter 

4 SERVINGS 

6 eggs salt and pepper 

Y2 tablespoon vinegar 3 tablespoons butter 

Simmer 2 tablespoons of the butter in a pan. When it begins to 
turn brown add to it the vinegar. Continue to simmer until 
required. Now scramble the eggs with the remaining butter and 
transfer into individual serving dishes. Over each dish pour some 
of the black butter sauce. Serve immediately. 



CASSEROLED EGGS 

Eier auf Kasserole 

4 SERVINGS 

2 raw eggs 1 tablespoon chopped 

2 tablespoons butter parsley 

4 hard-boiled eggs 4 good-sized mush- 

2 anchovies rooms 

salt and pepper 

Beat the raw eggs well. Cream the butter and stir in the beaten 
eggs until smooth. Roughly chop the hard-boiled eggs and add 
them to the mixture. Stir in the chopped parsley. Season with 
salt and pepper (not too much salt). This mixture is now poured 
into a well-buttered casserole and tightly covered. Place the 
casserole in a pot of water which should reach half way up the 
dish. Bake in a moderate oven for about 20 minutes. 
Serve witli tomato sauce. 



-[ 140 ] 



STUFFED EGGS WITH CRAYFISH 
BUTTER 

Eier mit Krebshutter 

4 SERVINGS 

4 eggs, hard-boiled crayfish butter 

1 teaspoon chopped (page 164) 
parsley salt and pepper 

^ cup milk y^ cup ragout of veal 

2 egg yolks or chicken 
butter 

Cut the hard-boiled eggs in half and carefully remove the yolks. 
Take the raw egg-yolks, the breadcrumbs, a httle milk, the crayfish 
butter (page 164) and parsley, and make a stuffing to fill the hollow 
of the eggs. Season v/ith salt and pepper. Take 4 small baking- 
dishes and butter them. Place the stuifed eggs in the dishes, two 
stuffed eggs to each dish, and surround with ragout. 

Bake in a fairly hot oven for 15 minutes. Serve in the individual 
baking-dishes. This is equally good hot or cold. 



EGGS TYROLEAN STYLE 

Tiroler Eierspeise 

4 SERVINGS 

4 hard-boiled eggs ^ teaspoon chopped 
1/2 cup fresh cream parsley 

salt and pepper 4 potatoes 

1 tablespoon butter 14 cup breadcrumbs 
4 anchovies 

Cook the potatoes and cut them into thin slices. Place a layer 
of these on the bottom of a well-buttered dish. Over the potatoes 
place a layer of sHced hard-boiled eggs and chopped anchovy and 
so on until the ingredients have been used up layer by layer. 
Mix the cream with the chopped parsley, salt and pepper, and 
pour over the dish. Sprinkle with breadcrumbs and bake in 
a moderate to hot oven for 30 minutes. If the breadcrumbs fail to 
brown in the oven, the dishes can be finished ofiF under the grill. 



-[ 141 ]- 



EMPEROR'S PANCAKE 

Kaiserschmarren 

2 tablespoons butter 5 tablespoons sugar 

5 eggs V2 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 4 tablespoons flour 

Separate the egg yolks from the whites. Make a smooth batter 
by mixing well the flour, salt, sugar and milk, and beating in the 
egg yolks. Take a casserole or heavy pan and melt the butter in it. 
Whip the egg whites till stiff and fold into the batter. Pour the 
mixture into the hot butter in the casserole or pan, and bake for 
30 minutes in hot oven. When using the pan fry very hot and 
turn till golden-brown. Use two forks to tear the pancake roughly 
into pieces. 



EGG CROQUETTES 

Eierkroketten 

4 SERVINGS 

6 eggs V-i teaspoon chopped 

1 mushroom parsley 

1 tablespoon cream y2 cup breadcrumbs 

salt and pepper V2 teaspoon butter 

deep fat 

Hard-boil 4 of the eggs and chop into fine pieces. Beat up 
1 egg. Mix and work well together the chopped eggs, the 
mushroom, also chopped, the parsley, butter, cream, breadcrumbs 
and the beaten egg. Season with salt and pepper. Form this 
mixture into cutlets or balls. If not soft enough to stick add 
a httle milk. Dust the cutlets with flour. Beat up the last egg and 
dip each cutlet or ball into it, then dip into breadcrumbs and fry 
in deep fat. Serve with salad. 



-[ 142 ] 



EGG CROQUETTES 

Eierkroketten 

ANOTHER METHOD 
4 SERVINGS 

9 eggs Bechamel sauce 

salt and pepper (page 150) 

pinch nutmeg breadcrumbs 

deep fat 

Hard-boil 8 eggs and chop finely. Stir up the chopped eggs, 
the nutmeg and a little salt and pepper. Bind this mixture with 
some thick Bechamel sauce. Make this into cutlets or balls as 
desired. Beat up the remaining egg and dip the cutlets or balls 
into this. Dip them once again in the breadcrumbs and fry in 
deep fat. Spinach is good served with this dish. 



CHEESE SOUFFLlfi 

Kdseauflauf 

6 TO 8 SERVINGS 

9 whole eggs 1 cup grated cheese 

3 extra egg yolks 2 tablespoons butter 

1 cup cream salt 

1 cup flour white pepper 

Beat up 3 whole eggs and three egg yolks until they are bubbly. 
Put a saucepan on the stove and melt the butter in it. Blend the 
flour smoothly into the butter. Slowly add the beaten egg mixture 
and a httle salt and pepper. Stir this mixture constantly until it 
gets really thick. Remove from the heat and leave for a while. 
Butter a warm oven dish. Beat up 6 more egg yolks with the 
cream until hght and airy, and in another bowl beat up the six 
egg whites until they are stiff. Pour the egg yolks and cream into 
the cooling mixture in the saucepan and blend them in until the 
batter has a cream-Uke texture. Now stir in the grated cheese 
(Parmesan is a favourite for this), and lastly fold in the stiff egg- 
whites. Pour all this into the buttered oven-dish and bake in 
a fairly hot oven for 45 minutes. 

[ 143 ] 



ASPARAGUS PANCAKE 

Spargeltorte 

4 SERVINGS 

^ lb. asparagus ^ lb. mushrooms 

1 oz. butter 6 tablespoons bread- 
y^ cup cream sauce crumbs 

1 tablespoon milk 1 tablespoon flour 

2 eggs pinch of salt 
14 cup Parmesan 

cheese 

Cook the asparagus and put aside in a warm dish with the butter 
melting over it. Cook the mushrooms in a httle salted water for 
15 minutes, then remove from the water, which is retained, 
and chop up into medium-sized pieces. Make a cream sauce using 
the mushroom water and mix in the chopped mushrooms. Make 
a smooth paste with the flour and milk and beat in the egg yolk. 
Add salt and continue to beat. Now add the whipped egg whites. 
Take 3 pans and grease well. Sprinkle the breadcnmibs over 
the bottom of each pan, pour in the mixture, sharing it equally 
between them. Bake in a moderate oven for about 20 minutes. 
Remove when set. Now place one pancake on a dish and cover 
with the asparagus, cover with another pancake and sprinkle 
with the grated Parmesan cheese, cover this again with the last 
pancake and pour the mushroom sauce over all. Serve hot. 



[ 144 ] 



ALMOND PANCAKES 

Mandelschmarren 

4 SERVINGS 

% cup of milk 1 14 tablespoons 
6 eggs sugar 

2 tablespoons ground 2 drops of almond 

almonds essence 

1 14 tablespoons 
butter 

Separate the eggs and whip the whites. Mix up the milk, the 
egg yolks, the butter, the sugar, almond drops and ground 
almonds. Last of all beat in the whipped whites of the eggs. 
Beat all together well. Butter well a baking dish and pour in the 
mixture. Bake in a hot oven for 45 minutes, then divide roughly 
into pieces and serve with a sprinkling of sugar. 



EGG BATTER PANCAKE 

Palatschinken 

4 SERVINGS 

1 cup flour sifted 1 cup milk 

3 eggs ^ cup cream 

3 tablespoons butter pinch of salt 
3 tablespoons sugar 

Add the sugar and salt to the sifted flour and beat in the eggs 
until a smooth batter is obtained. Add the cream and milk 
gradually, beating all the time. This mixture should have as 
thorough a beating as possible. Leave to stand for at least 30 minutes. 
The pancakes should be fried very carefully in the butter. Get the 
fiying-pan very hot, melt a small piece of butter into it and pour 
in 3 tablespoons (or more or less according to the size of the 
pan) of batter. The batter should be spread as thinly and evenly 
as possible. Brown very lightly and turn. Serve sprinkled with 
sugar or sugar of cinnamon as desired. If a savoury garnish is 
desired use less sugar in the batter or leave out altogether. Cottage 
cheese makes a good garnish for these pancakes. 



[ 145 ]- 



EGG BATTER PANCAKE 

Palatschinken 

ANOTHER METHOD 
4 SERVINGS 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 

1 1/2 cups flour 1 1/^ cups milk 

Separate the eggs. Beat up the yolks, add salt and milk and flour, 
beating until a smooth mixture is obtained. Stand for at least 
30 minutes. Beat the whites of the eggs and fold into the batter 
v/hen ready to start cooking. Fry carefully in butter as in the 
previous Palatschinken. The ideal garnish is spring cheese (see 
hors d'oeuvres). 



EGG BATTER WITH CREAM 

Eierkuchen mit Rahm 

4 SERVINGS 

5 eggs 1 ^2 tablespoons 
^3 cup flour butter 

1 tablespoon sugar pinch of salt 
1 V2 cups sour cream 

Separate the eggs. Mix the cream, the yolks, the sugar and salt 
and beat into a smooth batter. Work in the flour and beat again 
for another 10 minutes. Now fold in the egg whites and pour 
the mixture into a baking dish, in which the butter has been 
heated. Bake in a moderate oven for 1 hour and dust with sugar 
before serving. 



[ 146 ] 



SCHMARREN MADE WITH BREAD 

Semmelschmarren 

4 SERVINGS 

6 slices of bread 1 cup milk 

pinch of salt 2 eggs 

4 tablespoons butter 

The bread, which should be stale, is trimmed of its crust and cut 
into small squares. iVlix the milk and eggs, beat well, add salt 
and pour over the bread. Allow to stand until the bread has well 
softened and cook in a hot pan with the butter. When the mixture 
has browned on one side turn it over and cook for a few minutes 
on the other. Then using 2 forks tear the pancake into rough 
pieces and continue to cook until a golden brown is obtained on all 
sides. 



AUSTRIAN PANCAKE 

Schmarren 

4 SERVINGS 

4 eggs 14 cup of milk 

% cup sugar 1 cup of flour 

a pinch of salt 3 tablespoons butter 

Separate the eggs. Beat the egg yolks, sugar and butter together. 
Add flour, milk and salt. The flour and milk should be beaten in, 
a little at a time, till all is used. Whip the egg whites and fold in. 
Pour the mixture in to a pan with very hot butter in it and fry 
for a few minutes on a medium heat. When lightly brown turn 
over and using two forks tear the pancake into fairly large-sized 
pieces, rather roughly. Turn the pieces over and over, shaking 
the pan, till a nice golden brown is obtained. Serve hot with 
sugar sprinkled over. A little ciimamon can be sprinkled also if 
desired. The Schmarren can also be baked in an oven in a baking- 
dish, ready heated with hot melted butter to receive the batter. 



[ 147 ] 



CHESTNUT SOUFFLfi 

Kastanienkoch 



A SERVINGS 



3^ tablespoons 

butter 
1 ^ cups chestnut 

puree 



3 tablespoons vanilla 

sugar 
6 eggs 



Mix 3 tablespoons butter with 3 tablespoons vanilla sugar and 
beat well adding the beaten yolks of the eggs which have been 
separated. Add also the chestnut puree. Brush a souffle dish with 
the remaining butter. Whip the egg whites and fold into the 
mixture and pour into the dish. Bake for 45 minutes in hot 
oven. Serve immediately. 




Q^^^^^tMtUJUU^t^ik^ 



- [ 148 ]- 



Sauces & Garnishes 



Sauces frighten many beginners at cookery. They seem more 
complicated and difficult than they are. These are on the 
whole simpler than most sauces, depending for their success 
on their subtle flavourings. But anyhow, the secret of a successful 
sauce is merely careful blending, and plenty of patience. You 
must watch it hke a hawk, and pamper it like a baby. You must 
have a really thick-bottomed saucepan or a double-boiler. If you 
have neither, then always make your sauces in a bowl on top of 
a saucepan of boiling water. A burnt sauce is a spoiled sauce, and 
after all, the flavour is the big point of the sauce. Some of these 
sauces have particularly deUcate flavours. The Austrians borrowed 
them from all over the world, always, of course, adding their own 
typical touches. So many Austrian sauces call for stock, that if 
you want to achieve the true Austrian flavour, you must always 
keep a stock-pot going. Hot water could be substituted, but then 
you would lose the lovely rich flavour. Do not be afraid to ex- 
periment with the unusual ones, even if their names put you off! 
It won't take long to acquire a taste for them, once you have tried 
them, especially the famous sour cream ones. 



-[ 149 ] 



ANCHOVY SAUCE 

Sardellensauce 

6 TO 8 SERVINGS 

8 anchovy fillets 1 tablespoon butter 

4 eggs 14 cup breadcrumbs 

2 tablespoons oil pepper and salt 

^ cup vinegar 1 tablespoon flour 

2 sprigs parsley 1 cup hot water 

Hard-boil the eggs. Remove the yolks and sieve them. Pound up 
the anchovies. Melt the butter in a thick-bottomed saucepan. 
Stir the flour into the butter, and when it is well blended and 
smooth, pour on slowly 1 cup of boiling water, stirring all the 
while. Add the sieved egg yolks and the pounded anchovies, salt, 
pepper, and the parsley finely chopped. Mix the oil and vinegar 
together in a bowl. Add to them the breadcrumbs. Mix them all 
well together and then add them to the sauce in the saucepan. 
Blend everything well together and serve the sauce hot. 



SAUCE Bl^CHAMEL 

Bechamelsauce 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

2 ozs. butter 2 tablespoons flour 

1 cupful milk salt and pepper 

Let the butter melt in a saucepan over a low flame. Add the flour, 
and stir with a wooden spoon for 2 or 3 minutes. Do not allow 
the flour to become brown. Heat the milk and add it drop by 
drop to the flour, stirring slowly all the time. Continue to cook 
gently, and to stir slowly until the sauce has thickened. 



-[ 150 ]- 



BUTTER SAUCE 

Buttersauce 

1 tablespoon butter pepper and salt 

1/4 cups of white 2 tablespoons fine 

stock white flour 

Melt the butter in a saucepan. Before it boils, blend in the flour. 
If necessary, remove from the heat and stir until quite smooth. 
Gradually add the stock and stir until the whole is a smooth, fairly 
thick, creamy sauce. Salt and pepper to taste. 



BUTTER SAUCE WITH CAPERS 

Buttersauce mit Kapem 

4 SERVINGS 

4 ozs. butter 2 tablespoons vinegar 

salt and pepper 2 tablespoons capers 

1 shallot a Uttie caper juice 

SHce the shallots thinly, put them into a saucepan with the vinegar 
and simmer until the vinegar is reduced by half. Add 3 ozs. butter, 
and stir over a saucepan of boiling water until the sauce becomes 
frothy. Then add the remaining butter in tiny pieces and the 
capers with a Uttle of their juice, and serve hot or chiU and 
serve cold. 

DILL SAUCE 

Dillsauce 

4 SERVINGS 

1 oz. butter 1 tablespoon chopped 

1 ^ tablespoons flour dill 

1 cup meat stock 

Melt the butter over a low flame or in a double boiler. Add the 
flour and stir a littie with a wooden spoon until it browns. Add the 
hot meat or chicken stock very gradually, stirring the while. When 
the sauce has thickened add the dill and it is ready to serve. 

[ 151 ] 



FISH SAUCE, CREAMY 

Fischsauce mit Rahm 



4 SERVINGS 



^ cup fish stock 1 lemon 

Yz cup cream salt and pepper 

4 egg yolks 

Beat the egg yolks in a bowl. Slowly stir in the cream. Warm 
the fish stock and gently beat it into the egg yolks and cream. 
Add some salt and a httle pepper. Keep beating the sauce slowly 
and steadily for a minute or two, and then add the juice of the 
lemon. Beat a httle longer. Pour the sauce into a jug and leave 
it in a cold place to chill before serving. 



GREEN SAUCE 

Griine Sauce 

2 tablespoons 14 cup white stock 

chervil 1^ cup butter 

2 tablespoons 2 tablespoons white 
parsley flour 

2 tablespoons 14 cup cream 

sorrel pepper and salt 

The herbs should be fresh and green. If chervil and sorrel arc 
unobtainable, 2 tablespoons of chives can be used. Chop very 
finely. A roUing cutter is good for this, as it chops finely and at 
the same time squeezes out the juice. Save this juice. Melt the 
butter and stir in the flour until quite smooth. Add the stock and 
cream gradually and stir until the sauce is thick and creamy. Mix 
in the chopped herbs and juice. Salt and pepper to taste. The 
finished sauce should be a bright green. 



-[ 152 ]- 



HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

Hollandische Sauce 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

1/2 lb. butter 3 egg yolks 

1 dessertspoon salt 



vinegar 



1 lemon 



A sauce that can transform a simple dish of fish or vegetables. 
Warm the butter in a double boiler, or in a bowl which can be 
placed over a saucepan of boiling water. Add the vinegar, salt and 
egg yolks, a Httle at a time. Stir weU until the sauce thickens, but 
do not let it boil. Add the juice of a lemon. Stir well. Cool before 
serving. It should be golden and thick. 



HORSERADISH SAUCE 

Krensauce 

2 tablespoons grated 3 teaspoons white 

horseradish wine vinegar 

1 tablespoon butter V2 P"i^ sour milk 

1 tablespoon flour or cream 

salt 

Put the sour milk or cream in a saucepan to warm, but not boil. 
Take another saucepan and put it on the stove. Put the butter 
in it. When it is melted, but not sizzling, gradually add the flour, 
blending it well in and always stirring. When it is smooth, slowly 
add the sour milk, stirring all the time. Lower the heat and 
simmer for a few minutes, constantly stirring. Add salt. Put in 
the grated horseradish and the vinegar. Cool, and your sauce is 
ready for use. 



-[ 153 ] 



LEMON SAUCE 

Zitronensauce 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

2 lemons . 1 tablespoon butter 

1/2 cup sugar 2 tablespoons flour 

a few grains 2 cups boiling water 
of nutmeg 

Melt the butter and then slowly blend the flour into it. Do not 
let the flour get at all brown. Very gradually, always stirring, 
pour in the hot water, and continue to stir until all is well blended 
and beginning to thicken. Grate the rinds of the 2 lemons 
into the sauce, and add the juice from one of them. Add the 
sugar, and a few grains of grated nutmeg. Remove the saucepan 
from the fire. Scoop out all the flesh from the second lemon and 
add these juicy chunks to the sauce. Use either hot or cold. 



MUSHROOM AND WINE SAUCE 

Sauce tnit Pilzen und Wein 

4 SERVINGS 

y^ lb. mushrooms white pepper 

1 34 tablespoons salt 

butter 14 cup white wine 

1 V2 tablespoons 1 lemon 

flour 2 cups stock 

Melt the butter in a big thick saucepan and blend in the flour 
smoothly. Heat nearly all the stock and pour it gradually into the 
flour mixture, stirring all the time. Set the saucepan at the back 
of the stove to keep hot. In a small thick saucepan melt a httle 
butter. Chop up mushroom caps and stems, and gendy cook them 
in it with salt and pepper. Add the remaining stock and the juice 
ofthe lemon, always stirring. Now pour in the wine. Bring almost 
to the boil, and then add the sauce at the back ofthe stove, stirring 
it smoothly as you pour. To be used hot. 



[ 154 ] 



OLIVE SAUCE 

Olivensauce 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

8 green olives 1 tablespoon flour 

1 tablespoon olive oil 2 cups clear stock 

a few grains cayenne salt and pepper 

pepper 4 anchovy fillets 

Heat the ohve oil a thick large saucepan, and slowly stir the flour 
into it. Heat the stock to just below boiling-point (in another 
saucepan) and then slowly add it to the flour and oil. Cook slowly, 
stirring all the time, for three or four minutes. Stone the oUves 
and chop them up. Add them to the sauce. Chop the anchovies 
and add them too. Sprinkle with cayenne pepper. Taste, and 
add salt and white pepper if necessary. Stir again, and serve hot. 
Very good with hot or cold mutton and with plain fish dishes. 



PARSLEY SAUCE 

Petersiliensauce 

4 SERVINGS 

1 tablespoon finely 1 tablespoon butter 

chopped parsley 2 tablespoons flour 

salt 2 cups clear stock 
white pepper 

Melt the butter in a double boiler. Stir in the flour smoothly. 
Very slowly add the stock, stirring all the time until the sauce is 
thick and creamy. Add the finely chopped parsley, salt and pepper. 
Mix well together and serve. Especially suitable for fish. 



-[ 155 ] 



RED WINE SAUCE 

Weinsauce 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

^ cup red wine salt 

1 lemon 2 tablespoons butter 

black pepper 2 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon brown 1 cup meat stock 
sugar 

Put the stock in a saucepan to heat. Melt the butter in a medium- 
sized saucepan with a thick base. Blend the flour carefully into the 
butter. Slowly stir in the hot stock. When it is all smoothly 
blended, add one by one the brown sugar, wine, black pepper 
and a small amount of salt, stirring each in carefully as you add it. 
Remove the saucepan from the fire and squeeze the juice from the 
lemon into the sauce. Excellent with fish or game, and suitable 
for dishes that are finished off" under the grill or in the oven. 



RICH GRAVY SAUCE 

Bratemauce 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

1 cup raw meat 4 marrow bones 

pieces 1 bay leaf 

Yi cup chopped ham 1 clove 

1 onion basil, tarragon 

2 cups meat stock salt and pepper 
% cup red wine or 

sherry 

Scoop out the marrow from the marrow bones and put them in 
half the meat stock in a thick saucepan on a low heat. Peel and 
chop the onion and add it to the stock. Put in pinches of basil 
and tarragon, the bay leaf, clove, pepper and 1 teaspoon salt. 
Cover the saucepan and simmer for 30 minutes. Now pour in the 
rest of the meat stock and the wine and simmer for another 30 
minutes. Take off" the stove and throw in a few eggshells with a 
little egg white still sticking to them. Leave for 10 minutes, 
then strain. Reheat but do not boil and serve at once. 

[ 156 ] 



SORREL SAUCE 

Sauerampfersauce 

6 SERVINGS 

1 1/2 tablespoons salt and pepper 

butter % cup sour cream 

2 tablespoons flour big handful fresh 
21/2 cups clear stock sorrel leaves 

Cut off the stalks of the small leaves. Use hot water for washmg 
the leaves. Dry them well in a cloth, then put them through 
a mincer and chop them very finely. Cook them for 5 minutes 
in 1 teaspoon hot butter in a small saucepan. Then melt 1 
tablespoon butter in a big saucepan. Blend in the flour until 
it is smooth. Pour on gradually the stock, which should be quite 
hot. Season witli salt and pepper. Add the sorrel leaves. Remove 
from the fire and sowly stir in the sour cream. Use hot or cold. 



SOUR CREAM SAUCE 

Saure Rahmsauce 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

2 cups sour cream few grains nutmeg 

2 tablespoons butter salt 

2 tablespoons flour white pepper 
1 lemon 

It is wiser to use a double boiler for this sauce. Melt the butter 
in the top part, over slowly-boiling water. Gently blend in the 
flour, salt, pepper and grains of nutmeg, stirring all the time. 
Cook, stirring for a minute or two, then, httle by Httle, add the 
sour cream. Remove the saucepan from the heat and cool a httle. 
Slowly add the lemon juice. 

Use this sauce hot or cold. If hot, replace the saucepan on the 
stove and reheat. But please do not let it boil or it will spoil. 



[ 157 ]- 



TARTAR SAUCE 

Sauce Tartare 



6 SERVINGS 



1 small onion 4 chopped juniper 
1 teaspoon chopped berries 

chervil 1 egg yolk 

1 teaspoon chopped 1 cup oUve oil 

tarragon 1 teaspoon French 
1 teaspoon wine mustard 

vinegar pinch salt and black 
1 teaspoon chopped pepper 

parsley 1 teaspoon chopped 

capers 

Put the salt, pepper, mustard and egg yolk in a shallow bowl or 
soup plate and mix well. Add the olive oil, drop by drop, foUowing 
the instructions for mayonnaise. When all the oil has been incor- 
porated, add the very finely chopped onion with the vinegar, and 
then mix in the chopped chervil, tarragon, parsley, capers and 
juniper. You can transform cold meat or fried fish dishes with 
this sauce! 



TOMATO SAUCE, HOT 

Paradiesdpfehauce, heifie 

6 SERVINGS 

8 tomatoes sprig of thyme 

1 onion 1/2 bay leaf 

/4 carrot sprig of parsley 

clove of garlic 1 dessertspoon butter 

1 wineglass white salt and pepper 

wine pinch of paprika 

Peel the tomatoes and cut them into quarters. Shce the onion 
and carrot and put them in a saucepan with the garhc, thyme, 
parsley, bay leaf, tomatoes, salt, pepper and a glass of wine. Cook 
gently for about 30 minutes. Press through a sieve and return 
to the saucepan. Add the butter and paprika, stir together over 
a low heat and serve hot. 



[ 158 ]- 



I 



VIENNESE MUSTARD SAUCE 

Wiener Senfsauce 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

4 tablespoons butter 1 lemon 

salt and pepper 1 % tablespoons 
6 egg yolks French mustard 

1 cup white stock 

Use a double boiler. Melt the butter in the top of it and stir 
in the French mustard. Beat the egg yolks and stir them in very 
gradually. Be sure that nothing is too hot and keep the water 
in the boiler only slowly boihng. Add the stock slowly, stirring 
all the time, and keep stirring until the sauce thickens. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Remove from the fire and squeeze in the 
juice of the lemon, one drop at a time and always stirring. Serve 
hot or cold. 



WATERCRESS SAUCE 

Brunnenkressensauce 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

big bunch of water- salt 

cress 6 tablespoons butter 

1 cup stock 3 tablespoons toasted 
1 cup white wine breadcrumbs 

3 tablespoons vinegar 

Place the butter in a small but heavy saucepan or in a double 
boiler. Sprinkle in, when the butter has melted, the toasted 
breadcrumbs, stirring all the time. Cook them on a low heat 
in the butter until they are golden-brown. Then stir in the flour. 
Blend well. Heat the stock and then add it gradually to the butter, 
crumb, and flour mixture, stirring as you pour it. Season with salt. 
Add the wine and vinegar. Increase the heat and bring the sauce 
ahnost to boiling-point. Add the finely chopped watercress and 
remove at once from the stove. Serve hot or cold. 



[ 159 ] 



WHITE SAUCE 

Weifie Sauce 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

2 07S. butter 1 cup of hot clear 

1 oz. flour stock 

1 egg yolk salt and pepper 



drop of vinegar 



Warm the butter in a saucepan on a low flame, stirring with 
a wooden spoon for 2 or 3 minutes. Do not allow the flour 
to brown. Add a httle hot clear stock and stir well. Then add the 
rest of the stock and sinmier for a few minutes. Put the egg yolk 
in a warm basin, beat it, and add the sauce to it a httle at a time. 
Season with salt and pepper, and a drop of vinegar. Serve hot. 



MAYONNAISE SAUCE 

Mayonnaise 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

2 egg yolks 1 tablespoon wine 

y2 pint ohve oil vinegar 

salt and pepper 

Many people are wary of making their own mayonnaise but it is 
so much more dehghtful than the bought kind that it is well worth 
making. The secret is to add the ohve oil very, very slowly to 
begin with. You may get better results by using an egg-beater 
instead of a fork for mixing. If the sauce should go wrong and the 
egg yolks and ohve oil separate, instead of uniting to form a thick 
shiny creamy sauce, you can save your mayonnaise by taking 
a third egg yolk, placing it in another soup plate, and adding 
the spoilt mayonnaise to it slowly, stirring all the time. 

Put the yolks in a soup plate. Add a pinch of salt and pepper. 
Stir with a fork, adding the ohve oil drop by drop. Keep stirring 
all the time. Increase the flow of the ohve oil to a trickle and 
gradually more quickly, making sure to keep stirring, until all the 
oil has been incorporated in the sauce. Now add 1 small table- 
spoon wine vinegar, or lemon juice, if preferred. 

If you want a thinner sauce, stir in 1 dessertspoonful cream. 

[ 160 ] 



GREEN MAYONNAISE 

Griine Mayonnaise 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

14 lb. spinach 1 teaspoon chopped 

2 egg yolks chervil 

14 pint olive oil 1 teaspoon chopped 

1 tablespoon wine chives 

vinegar salt and pepper 
1 teaspoon chopped 

tarragon 

Wash the spinach. Dry it in a clean tea-towel and chop it up very 
finely. Put 2 egg yolks in a soup plate, season with a pinch 
of salt and pepper, and stir with a fork. Add ^ pint oUve 
oil, drop by drop, stirring all the time. Gradually increase the rate 
at which the ohve oil is added to a steady trickle, stirring through- 
out, until all the oUve oil has been incorporated. Add 1 tablespoon 
wine vinegar (lemon juice is a very good alternative) and the 
chopped chives, tarragon and spinach and mix into the sauce. 
This mayonnaise is very pretty and is an attractive addition to 
cold fish dishes. 



-[ 161 ]- 



MUSTARD MAYONNAISE 

Sen/mayonnaise ' 

4 SERVINGS 

y2 cup olive oil 1 tablespoon French 

4 hard-boiled eggs mustard 

1 tablespoon sprig each of tarragon, 

tarragon vinegar chervil, parsley, 

1 egg yolk bumet 

Cream the yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs, and add to them 1 raw 
egg yolk and 1 tablespoon French mustard. Then add the olive 
oil, drop by drop, as for mayonnaise. When all the oil has been 
added, stir 1 tablespoon tarragon vinegar into the sauce. Plunge 
the tarragon, bumet, parsley and chervil into boiUng salted water 
and boil for 1 minute. Fish them out with a perforated spoon 
and put them in cold water for 1 minute. Remove them with 
the same spoon, and wrap them in a towel so that most of the 
moisture is out of them. Chop them up as finely as possible, 
and mix them into your mayonnaise, stirring. It is now ready to 
serve. 



[ 162 ]- 



HORSERADISH RELISH 

Essigkren 

6 TO 8 SERVINGS 

^ cup grated 2 tablespoons chives 

horseradish 1 teaspoon paprika 

1 cup cream 4 tablespoons clear 

2 tablespoons melted stock 
butter salt 

2 tablespoons white pepper 

vinegar 

Put the stock in a saucepan on the stove and bring it just to the 
boil. Chop the chives up finely and add them, with the grated 
horseradish, to the stock. Boil for 5 minutes. Remove from 
the stove. In a bowl, put the oUve oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and 
paprika, and whisk them all fiercely together. Then slowly add 
the cream, stirring gently. Add this mixture to the horseradish 
and stock. Beat vigorously. Pour into a jug. Set to chill. When 
it is cold your relish is ready. 

An interesting hors d'oeuvre spread on thin melba toast, crisp- 
bread or pastry, etc. 



ANCHOVY BUTTER 

Sardellenbutter 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

% lb. butter pinch of cayenne 

6 anchovy fillets pepper 

Cream the butter. Pound up the anchovy fillets and add them 
to the butter. Add the cayenne pepper. Mix well with a wooden 
spoon. Put into an earthenware pot and chill. Serve as a sauce 
or garnish. It is also very good on toast. 



[ 163 ]- 



BLACK BUTTER 

Schwarze Butter 

6 SERVINGS 

1/4 lb. butter 2 1^ tablespoons 

vinegar 

Put the butter in a saucepan and cook until it becomes a rather 
dark brown (not black, actually). Now pour it over whatever 
it is to accompany. Put the vinegar in the hot pan and boil it until 
it is reduced by half and pour it over the butter. 



CRAYFISH BUTTER 

Krebsbutter 

6 SERVINGS 

12 crayfish dash of cayenne 

2 cups butter pepper 

If you would rather, use 2 tins of crayfish instead. Otherwise, 
wash the crayfish in several waters, and then plunge them in 
boihng salted water and cook for 10 minutes. Remove them from 
the water, shell them and pound them up. Soften the buner by 
leaving it in a warm place or over boihng water, and mix it well 
into the crayfish, pounding all savagely together. Put in an 
earthenware pot. Chill and serve. 



[ 164 ]- 



Puddings & Desserts 



How the Austrians love sweets! And very sweet sweets! 
No Austrian meal is complete without a pudding or sweet 
fruit dish. So if you want a true Austrian pudding don't 
stint the sugar. 

Puddings range from frothy whips that melt in your mouth 
and are perfect to finish off a heavy meal, to very substantial ones 
that would make a very hght meal amply satisfying. 

Besides the recipes given in this section, don't forget the sweet 
pancakes under the pancake section, and the famous Strudel 
in the Cakes and Pastries section. Some of these puddings are 
frankly extravagant, but others, like the deUcious versions of 
bread-and-butter pudding, are brilliant ways of using up left- 
over scraps. 

You'll find exciting new ideas for using our old standby, the 
apple, which the Viennese particularly like and use with such 
imagination. 

The only trouble about the Austrian ideas for the pudding 
course is that there are so many of them, and all so deHcious that 
it would take years for you to try all of them. 



■[ 165 ] 



MELONS WITH CREAM 
AND STRAWBERRIES 

Gefiilhe Melonen mit Rahm und Erdbeeren 

4 SERVINGS 

1/ ^ •„ or more 

A cup vaniUa sugar i/^ cup thick cream 

Cut the melons in two and scoop out the seed<; r-^r-.f, ii - 

the remaining melon in smaU neat pieces t^Snec^eno^^""' """^ 
the rinH Put *-i,-:.^^ • • "'''*'• F^^'-^^j taiung care not to damaee 

with a few strawberries, and serve. ^ °^ ^^^^ 

TYROLEAN BREAD-AND-BUTTER 
PUDDING 

Tiroler Scheiterhaufer 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

6 slices white bread i tablespoon currants 

1 aWespoon butter 1 tablespoon sultanas 
A ,M ^ teaspoons ground 

4 tablespoons sugar cinnamon 

2 cups milk 4 egg yolks 

'ShT.^cr''Sef:rer;v^rrhn^^^^^ 

sticks arranged criss-cross, I if Jou were by nl a fir' th^n '" 
them with a layer of sUced apples' SprinSe SVurr^ts sSta^^ 

frr 1^- oT-£-t»^:--£eai 

.0 minutes. In the meantr;" tL't Se eTg° yX "add tt 
tl l^r' '"' ''?' ^" *=" '°2«he?. Remt t 'puddSg 
ftr,h. „ ; IT ""' '""'' '^^ ^8S ■^"'^^ over it, and reS 
mn oV^r 'L^'^' """' "'= egg-and-miik mixture is set a^d the 
top of the pudding a delicious golden-brown. 

— • [ 166 ]- 



VIENNESE BEGGARMAN'S PUDDING 

Bettelmann 



4 SERVINGS 



2 eggs 3 tablespoons seedless 
% cup stale bread- raisins (or seeded) 

crumbs 2 tablespoons 
2 cups apple sauce almonds 

1 14 hours before the meal, set the raisins to soak in water. 
After 1 hour drain them. Make the breadcrumbs by grating 
any stale left-over bread, either white, or brown or rye, or a mixture 
of all or any of them. In a bowl, mix the apple sauce with the 
breadcrumbs, and raisins. Chop the almonds finely and add them 
to the breadcrumbs. Beat the eggs well and add them too. Pour 
this mixture into a buttered oven dish and bake in a moderate 
oven for 35 minutes, or until it is golden-brown on top. 



NIGGER IN HIS SHIRT 

Mohr im Hemd 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

5 ozs. unsweetened ^ pint whipping 

chocolate cream 

8 eggs a few grains of salt 

6 ozs. vanilla sugar 

Put the chocolate in ^2 piiit water in a saucepan on the stove. 
Keep stirring it, until it is melted and thick. Add a very few 
grains of salt. Let it cool, but stir it frequently as it cools. 
When it is quite cool, stir in 5 ozs. of the sugar, all the butter, 
melted, and the well-beaten yolks of the eggs. Beat up the 
whites of the eggs until they are stiff, then fold them into the 
chocolate mixture. Put the whole mixture into a well-buttered 
pudding mould and steam it for 45 minutes over boiling water. 
Then tap the sides of the mould, and turn out the pudding on to 
a serving dish. Let it cool. Whip up the cream, adding 1 oz. 
sugar as it begins to thicken. Pour the cream in heaps over all the 
pudding, and serve. 



-[ 167 ]- 



HOT CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

Heifier Schokoladenpudding 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

31/2 ozs. vaniUa sugar 2 white bread rolls 

(page 176) 4 eggs 

2 ozs. grated choco- i cup milk 

late (semi-sweet) strawberry jam 
2 tablespoons butter 

Put the rolls to soak in the milk. Butter a pudding mould, prefer- 
ably one with a hoUow middle, and then sprinkle it with H oz 
sugar Cream the butter in a bowl, add the other 3 ozs suear" 
and the egg yolks, well-beaten up first. Mix all thoroughly together' 

^fT'Tn A' '""' ^''"^ '^' °^ ^"^ '^^'''^ the moistL oui 
ot them. Add them to the mixture, stirring them well in. Beat ud 

^"^^rf Tl^'''^ "^'^ ^'' ^^^' ^^^" ^gh^y f°^d them i^ 
L,Th a ^V^'' "^'^ '^' ^""^^^^ ^°d ^"g^ed pudding 

for half an hour. Heat about six tablespoons of strawberry jam 
and when the pudding is ready and turned out of its m^d on 
to a servmg dish, fill the hollow with the hot jam. If you are 
not using a pudding mould with a hollow centre, then pour the 
)am over the top and around the sides of the pudding 



-[ 168 ]- 



RADETZKY RICE 

Radetzky-Reis 

4 SERVINGS 

^ cup sugar 4 teaspoons rum 

2 tablespoons butter strawberry jam 
1 1/^ cups rice apple sauce 

3 egg whites 1 tablespoon lemon 
2 tablespoons sugar juice 

drop of vanilla essence 1 tablespoon orange 

4 cups milk juice 

Boil the rice in milk until it is tender. Then strain. Put the butter, 
sugar, orange juice and lemon juice in a heavy pan and cook 
together. Add this mixture to the rice, mix well and set aside to 
cool. Then stir in the rum. Put a layer of this mixture on the 
bottom of a baking-dish which has been buttered. Over it put 
a layer of jam and then apple sauce. Repeat layers of rice, jam 
and apple sauce, until the dish is full. Beat the egg whites, fold 
in the sugar with the vanilla essence and spread over the top 
of the pudding. Bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes and serve 
hot. 

POLISH APPLES 

Apfel auf polnische Art 

4 SERVINGS 

% cup sugar raisins 

2 cups browned boiled chopped 

breadcrumbs chestnuts 

4 cups apple sauce 1 teaspoon grated 

pinch of cinnamon lemon rind 

2 tablespoons butter 

Place the sugar, butter, breadcrumbs, cinnamon and grated rind 
of lemon in a pan and cook until browned. Allow this mixture to 
cool, but care must be taken that it is not allowed to coagulate. 
Mix apple sauce and raisins. Put into a buttered baking-dish 
a layer of the breadcrumb mixture, then a layer of apple sauce 
and raisins and then a layer of chestnuts. Repeat these layers till 
all the ingredients are used up. Bake in a hot oven for 30 minutes. 
The last layer should be of breadcrumbs in order to obtain best 
results. 

[ 169 ] ■ '- 



ALMOND PUDDING 

Mandelkoch 



4 SERVINGS 



Yj cup semolina 14 cup sugar 

A cup ground i/^ cup boiling water 

. Hr f ? . ^ tablespoon butter 

a drop of almond 5 eggs 

^^^^°^^ apricot jam 

Mix the semolina and milk in a double boiler and cook until 
a thick creani IS obtained. Stand this aside to cool. Beat intoTl^ 
cream the ahnonds, ahnond essence, butter and su7a? C th. 

iC fT ?^" ^^P ^^^ '^^ -^^- separ"e1y3;d^ thSe 

'^^:^^:^, — "- ^^ apricoT -L^ts 

Ser^'e the pudding hot with the thinned apricot jam. 



EMPEROR'S PUDDING 

Kaiser Koch 

4 SERVINGS 

V^ cup washed rice 14 cup ground 
yzcupnulk ahnonds 

1 tablespoon butter 4 eggs 

a drop of ahnond y^ cup sugar 
essence 

The rice is first cooked in the milk until a thick mixture is obtained 
The butter is now stirred in and the mixture set aside to cool The 
eggs are now separated and the yolks beaten up with the sugar 

e^tc^ared' ^"^ ^^^ '''' ^^ ''' ^^^^^ ^^ ^^ ^oTd 

ovfn^'Tr^" '^''?'' '' "^^^"^ ^ " ^""^""^^ cooking-dish in a hot 

^nr. ; Jk'?^ ^^'u' "' ^^^PP"^ "^^ ^'^d^'^ i^st before pouring 
into the bakmg-dish. Bake for about 45 minutes 



-[ 170 ]- 



RED WINE PUDDING 

Burgunder Koch 

4 SERVINGS 

1 cup red wine Vi cup sugar 

apricot iam 1 clove 

1 tablespoon butter 3 egg yolks 

grated lemon peel chopped blanched 

seedless raisins almonds 

slices of bread chopped candied peel 

Remove the crusts from the bread and bake for a short time in the 
oven. Put jam between the sUces of bread and place in the bottom 
of a baking-dish. Sprinkle over these candied peel, raisins, and 
almonds. Mix the clove, lemon peel, wine and sugar and cook 
together. Set aside to cool. Add the beaten yolks of the eggs to 
this mixture and pour over the contents of the baking-dish. Bake 
in a hot oven for 30 minutes. 



FRUIT PUDDING 

Koch mit Friichten 

4 SERVINGS 

4 eggs ^ cup butter 

34 cup sugar fresh plums or apples 

14 cup flour 

Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs. Beat together the egg 
yolks and the sugar thoroughly. Add the butter and beat further. 
Brush some butter around a ring mould and then dust with flour. 
Just before pouring the mixture into this add the whipped whites 
of the eggs. The fruit is first stoned and peeled, then sliced and 
laid in the bottom of the mould. The mixture is poured over it. 
Bake in a hot oven for 45 minutes. This pudding may be served 
cold. 



-[ 171 ]- 



VIENNESE PANCAKE 

Fridatten 

4 SERVINGS 

34 cup flour 3 eggs 

V2 cup milk salt 

lard 
Mix the eggs in an earthenware bowl and add the flour bit bv h,> 
Then add the milk and beat into a smooth batter iS^^ltth/lad 
in a deep pan and when it is really hot pour in the battS frorn 

l^^ Zr"^ '' '' ' ^^"P^^^^ golde'bt^n^Temr 
with a stramer and dram it on some paper. Place on a hot dish 

VIENNESE WHIPPED CREAM 

Wiener Schlagobers 

4 SERVINGS 

1 pint whipped cream 2 tablespoons vanilla 

sugar 

w!fflv' k''''^/^' ^ ^°"''- Get a bowl ice-cold. The cream 
a whl^wr'.i^^' '°^ ^^' '°^^ ''' '^^ i- ^he refrigerator^ 
Ja^ ^^P ^^^ ^'^^ ^^* a whisk or rotary egg-beater and 
add the sugar gradually, as soon as the cream LgfnsostlfSi 
Ths whipped cream is used for numerous puddif ^ on t^ of 
coffee and chocolate, or fruit, and in many other Ty?.' ^ 

STRAWBERRY WHIP 

Geschdumtes Erdbeerkoch 

4 SERVINGS 

1 cup strawberries 4 whites of eggs 

2 tablespoons sugar 

Mash the strawberries up thoroughly with the sugar, then beat 
them with a whisk or rotary egg-beater. Beat up the egg-whit^ 
until they are stiff, then mix them into the strawberries blend n^ 
all weU together. Pile the mixture into a large S oven-S 
and bake slowly for half an hour. ^ oven-dish 

[ 172 J _____ 



COFFEE CREAM JELLY 

Kqffeecreme- Gelee 

4 SERVINGS 

4 teaspoons instant 2 tablespoons vanilla 

coffee sugar 

4 tablespoons water 4 tablespoons plain 
2 cups thick cream sugar 

1 tablespoon gelatine 

Pour half a cup of boiUng water over the instant coffee in a bowl, 
stirring all the time. Add the plain sugar and stir again. Pour half 
a cup of water which is just off the boil on to the gelatine in 
another bowl, stirring as you do so. Mix the coffee and gelatine 
mixtures togethet thoroughly and put in a cold place. Whip the 
cream and when it begins to thicken add the vanilla sugar to it. 
When the coflfee and gelatine mixture is just beginning to set, whip 
it up well with a whisk or rotary beater imtil it is frothy. Then 
stir it into the whipped cream. Wet a jelly mould and sprinkle it 
with coarse white sugar or coloured coffee-sugar crystals. Pour 
the pudding mixture into it and leave in a very cold place for 3 or 
4 hours. 



SOUR CREAM MOULD 

Gefrorener sauer Rohm 

4 SERVINGS 

1 cup sour cream 2 tablespoons milk 

2 tablespoons crushed chocolate 

macaroons ^A cup vanilla sugar 

1 tablespoon rum 

Break up the chocolate into tiny pieces with a rolling pin. Whip 
the sour cream with an egg-whisk or rotary beater. When it 
begins to thicken, add the crushed chocolate, crushed macaroons, 
sugar and rum, and mix all well together. Pour the mixture into 
a cold wet jelly mould and put in a refrigerator until it is frozen. 



[ 173 ]- 



VIENNESE LEMON FOAM 

Wiener Luft 

4 SERVINGS 

1 dessertspoon 2 eggs 

gelatine water as necessary 

i 'S°° ^2 cup vanilla sugar 

2. tablespoons mara- 

schino liqueur 

Separate the egg yolks from the whites. Into the yolks slowlv 

t L wdr'w«"Jr^*°"'"«"j- ^^^ *= iemon irce ant2 
It in well. Wet the gelaune with cold water, and then add a liX 

coot? '^aT'' '""> ™"' 'h^ 8='^"°' i^ dissolved. When it hs 
bow 11" 'm'" f = ''°"' °^'Sg and sugar. Stir wea Pu the 
bowl in a cold place to get thoroughly chilled Then h^, ^l 

t^brtrtu'aurf^r''f "• ^'''*' ---'i^™ »^^ 

sMff/nH ,? f ,^ [""'>'• S^P^"«=ly beat up the egg whites until 
^ water /fr th'" '"'° "■^- '^^■""- ^^' ^ i^"' """Id "th 

BILBERRY FRITTERS 

Heidelbeertascherln 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

J ^"P ^°^^ 1 lb. bilberries (or 

1 cup white wine raspberries, etc.) 

pincnofsalt 1/2 lb. caster sugar 

2 tablespoons butter 

Put the flour in a bowl, mix in the salt. Slowly stir in the wine 
the buCr ' V"^°°'^^'""• ^^^^ "^- i° ^h' bilbem^ Te 
n it andV^ -^^^ '^ u ^T"^ P^- ^^°P ^P«°^"l^ of the batter 
in It and fry crisp on both sides. Drain on a piece of crumoled 
brown paper Toss quickly in a plateful of caste^r sugar ^^en^ 
thickly coated with the sugar. ' 



[ 174 ]— 



COLD RICE BOMBE 

Kalter Rets 

4 TO 6 SERVINGS 

1 cup rice 1 1/2 tablespoons 
1 vanilla pod vanilla sugar 

1 pint milk 2 oranges 

y2 pint whipping 1 tablespoon candied 

cream cherries 

1/2 oz. gelatine tiny pinch salt 

Put the milk in a saucepan with the rice and vanilla pod. Add 
1 tablespoon sugar and a tiny pinch of salt. Cook until the rice 
is just tender but not mushy, stirring occasionally. About 12 
or 13 minutes should be long enough. Remove from the fire 
and cool. Chop up the candied cherries and add them to the 
rice, mixing them well in. Whip up the cream until it is stiff, then 
slowly add to it the rest of the sugar. Stir this cream-and-sugar 
mixture into the rice. Dissolve the gelatine in a httle water. Wet 
a pudding mould, and pour the mixture into it. Set it in a very 
cold place, preferably a refrigerator. When it is set, turn it out on 
a dish. Peel and shce the oranges and surround the pudding with 
them, and serve. JeUies or other sorts of fruits could be used 
instead of the oranges, and various sorts of raw or cooked fruits 
added to the pudding itself, instead of the cherries, but the 
cherries are particularly dehcious. For festive occasions try 
brandied cherries! 



[ 175 ] 



VANILLA SUGAR 

Vanillezucker 



3 lbs. sugar 



1 vanilla pod 



This IS something every Austrian household has on hand, and it is 
much more flavoursome than vaniUa extraa. You cut the vai^lla 
pod into small pieces and mix it with the sugar and put it in ^1^^ 
The sugar won't be properly flavoured for 3 dayf When '^u 
use sonie sugar, add a bit more, mixing it well together with wha" 
IS akeady there. Once a month take out the vanilla piec^^d nu 
in new ones. If you are using very httle of thfs^sug^ a ne' 
vaniUa pod every 2 or 3 months is enough ^ ' 




-[ 176 ]- 



Bread & Rolls 



The bread of Vienna is famous for its lightness, freslmess, 
and its variety of seasonings, unlike our rather limited 
creations. Our seeming indifference to the freshness of our 
breads shocks a true lover of Viennese baking. Rolls over two or 
three hours old are considered stale. 

These dehghtful recipes are easy to make at home, although 
in England there seems to be a great reluctance to use yeast in 
home baking. It is easy to get and very easy to use. Make certain 
that it is fresh. It can be obtained from a baker or flour merchant. 
It is compressed, but, if fresh, it should be of the consistency of 
putty, not crumbly. 

All utensils and ingredients used in baking with yeast should 
be warm, but not hot. Yeast is a Uving thing, and like all other 
living things should only have a gentle heat to make it grow. 
Great heat will kill it. 



[ 177 ]- 



ORDINARY BREAD 

Hausbrot 

4 TO 6 LOAVES 

5 large potatoes, 7 cups brown flour 

peeled and cut up 5 cups white flour 

31/2 cups potato water 1 y^ tablespoons salt 

2 tablespoons yeast 1 tablespoon caraway 
^^ ^ oz. or coriander 

This bread, which is for general use, can be white or brown, or 
It preferred, a mixture of the two flours. The potatoes are added 
to help to keep it fresh for several days. As in all other bread 
recipes half the quantities may be used if a smaller amount is 
required. 

Cook the potatoes. Drain and pour the water into a bowl 
There should be about 3 to 4 cupfuls. Put the potatoes through 
a masher which really sieves them, leaving them light and 
separated. When the water is cooled to blood heat, take 2 
tablespoons and blend with the yeast. Stir until the yeast is 
dissolved. Mix all the dry ingredients in a bowl (flours, potatoes, 
salt and flavouring). Add the remainder of the potato water and 
mix well. Make a hole in the centre and add the liquid yeast. 
Knead with the hand, in the bowl. Turn out on to a floured board 
and knead well until the dough is quite smooth. Grease a bowl 
and put m the dough. Cover with a warm cloth and let rise until 
it is at least twice the size. Flatten and shape into loaves. Brush 
the tops with water or milk. Put into bread tins, half filUng them, 
and leave to rise for another 30 minutes. Bake in a moderate oven 
for 1 hour or more, depending on the size of the loaves. 



[ 178 ]- 



POTATO BREAD 

Erddpfelbrot 

2 TO 3 LOAVES 

6 cups flour 1 cup cream 

14 cup butter 1 V2 cups cooked 
14 cup lukewarm potato 

water ^ cup raisins 

^ cup butter 1 egg 
1 oz. yeast 

Dissolve the yeast in 2 tablespoons lukewarm water and let 
stand for 10 minutes. Put flour (sieved) in bowl. Shred the 
butter into it. Add the sieved potatoes, raisins (which have been 
plunged into hot water and well drained), the cream and lastly 
the liquid yeast. Knead for a few minutes, then turn out on to 
floured board and knead until smooth. Allow to rise for 30 
minutes. Shape into loaves and put into pans. Allow to rise until 
the size is doubled. Always cover with a light cloth to keep the 
heat in. 

After ten minutes of hot baking, lower the heat and finish the 
baking at a moderate heat for 50 to 55 minutes. 



•[ 179 ]- 



PLAITED BREAD 

Striezel 

1 TO 2 LOAVES DEPENDING ON SIZE REQUIRED 

5 cups flour 1 cup milk 

5 tablespoons sugar 1 egg 

34 teaspoonful salt 1 extra egg yolk 

1/2 cup butter 2 ozs. yeast 

Melt the butter and cool to blood heat. Dissolve the yeast in milk 
which has been brought to nearly boiling-point and then allowed 
to cool to blood-heat. Add the sugar and salt. Stir until these are 
dissolved. Allow to stand for 5 minutes. Now add the egg and 
egg yolk, beaten together. Add about a cupful of flour and beat 
until It IS a batter. Add the butter and remainder of the flour 
alternately until the mixture has become a fairly stiff" dough Turm 
on to a floured board and knead well. The dough should be elastic 
and not tough. Place in a warm place in a greased bowl and allow 
to rise for 30 minutes. 

Divide into 2 parts. Divide one half into 4 parts. Make this 
into a plait. Divide the second half into 3 parts. Knead together 
2 of these parts, and divide this into 3 parts. Make these 3 parts 
into a plait. Roll the remaining piece into a twist, having divided 
It m 2 pieces. Brush the largest plait with milk and place the 
next plait on top. Brush this with milk and place the twist on 
top. Press these plaits into an oval shape and leave to rise to 
double their size. 

Brush the tops of these Striezel with the white of egg, left from 
the yolk used in the recipe, mixed with milk. For 10 minutes 
bake in a hot oven, then reduce the temperature to moderate and 
bake for about 40 minutes to an hour. 



-[ 180 



MILKBREAD 

Milchbrot 

2 TO 3 LOAVES 

6 cups flour % cup melted butter 

^ cup sugar 1 teaspoon aniseed, 

1 14 cups milk caraway or fennel 

1 oz. yeast if liked 
^ teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast in 2 tablespoons lukewarm milk. Add the 
sugar and salt. Stir well, and let stand for 5 minutes. Make 
a well in the sieved flour and add the yeast mixture. Allow the 
milk to cool from near boiling-point to blood-heat, and add to the 
flour, alternately with the melted butter, also warm. Beat all well, 
until the dough is smooth and ready for kneading. The flavouring 
can go in any time after the Hquid has been added. Turn out on to 
a floured board and knead very well unul the dough is perfectly 
smooth and elastic. Grease a warmed bowl and place the dough 
in it. Cover with a Ught cloth and let stand in a warm place for 
30 minutes. Shape the dough into a long triangle, about 6 inches 
wide one end and 2 inches the other, length about 2 feet. 
Roll the bread up from the wide end, and fold over the tail end, 
down the middle. Mould the loaf into an oval shape. Leave it to 
rise on a greased tin until the size is doubled. Brush the top with 
milk and white of egg beaten together. Have the oven hot and 
bake for 10 minutes. Lower to moderate and continue baking 
for 45 minutes. 



[ 181 ] 



CHEESE BREAD 

Kdsebrot 

1 GOOD-SIZED LOAF 

2 cups flour 1 tablespoon tepid 
74 teaspoon salt water 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 egg 

Vi cup grated cheese y^ oz. yeast 

3 tablespoons hot 
water 

Dissolve the salt, and sugar in the hot water and leave to cool 
To this add the yeast dissolved in the tepid water. 

Stir in the beaten egg and the grated cheese. 

Add a httle flour and stir. Turn on to a floured board and 
knead. Add the remaining flour as required, but do not aUow 
the dough to become tough. 

Shape into a loaf and place in a greased tin. Cover with 
a clean cloth and allow to rise for about 1 hour, or until it is 
twice the size. 

Have a moderate oven and bake for 45 minutes. When cooked, 
brush with melted butter and allow to cool. 



HONEY BREAD 

Honigbrot 

1 GOOD-SIZED LOAF 

2 cups flour y^ cup sugar 

1 teaspoon baking 1 tablespoon butter 

soda 1 cup milk 

1 teaspoon cinnamon y^ cup honey 
34 teaspoon salt 

When baking this bread remember that it is easily burned, so watch 
it carefully. 

Mix all the dry ingredients together in a bowl, except the baking 
powder. Put the milk, butter and honey into a pan. Warm and 
stir all the time until they are well blended. Now into this, stir 
the baking soda. Pour this into the flour mixture. Stir well. This 
bread is not kneaded. Put in to a floured bread tin and bake in 
a moderate oven for 1 hour. 

This can be iced or caster sugar may be dusted on top. 

[ 182 ] 



BROWN BREAD 

Hausbrot 

1 GOOD-SIZED LOAF 

2 cups wholemeal 2 cups water 

flour 1 tablespoon beef 
14 teaspoon salt suet or lard 

1 teaspoon sugar ^ oz. yeast 

A simple recipe for ordinary brown bread. Beef suet is frequently 
used for this type of bread, to make the dough a Httle richer and 
also to help to keep it moist. Without this, brown bread is inclined 
to be dry. 

Mix the flour and salt in a bowl. Rub in the beef suet. Stand 
in a warm place. Warm the water to blood-heat. Cream the yeast 
and sugar. Add half the water. Make a well in the centre of the 
flour and add the yeast. Cover with a sprinkling of flour from the 
sides and let stand five minutes. Add more of the warm water 
until a nice soft dough is obtained. Turn on to a floured board 
and knead thoroughly. Remember this dough must not be too 
firm. Replace in the bowl and cover with a warm cloth. Mow 
to rise until double the size. Knead again and shape. Put into 
tins which have been greased and dusted with wholemeal flour. 
Only half fill them. Allow to rise for another 20 minutes. Bake 
in a hot oven for 15 minutes. Then reduce to moderate and bake 
for another 40 to 50 minutes. The loaves should be brown on top. 
To test, turn one out and tap the bottom, which should be firm 
and hoUow-sounding. 



[ 183 ] 



ZWIEBACK 

Long thin rolls, almost toastlike. Untranslatable 

3 cups flour 1/2 cup miLk 

1/2 teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons melted 

4 tablespoons sugar butter 
^ teaspoon powdered 2 eggs 

nutmeg 

Blend the yeast with the sugar. Add the milk, which has been 
boiled and cooled to blood-heat, and salt. Mix well, and let stand 
tor 5 mmutes. 

Sieve the flour with the nutmeg. Beat the butter and eggs 
together Add alternately with the flour to the yeast mixture 
Mix well with the hand and knead for a short time. Place in 
a bowl and cover with a cloth. Leave in a warm place until the 
dough has doubled in size. Divide in pieces and mould into long 
rolls, about 3 inches thick. Place them on a greased baking-tin 
Leave to rise again, for about 10 minutes. Now bake in a hot 
oven for about 25 minutes. Allow to cool. Shce as thin as you 
wish. The thimier they are the crisper. Bake in a slow oven until 
both sides are a mce brown. If necessary turn the shces to ensure 
even browning. 

SALT ROLLS 

Salzstangerln 

ABOUT 24 

3 cups flour 1 tablespoon beef 
1 teaspoon sugar suet or lard 

V2 teaspoon salt 1 oz. yeast 

caraway seeds water 

1 cup milk 

A savoury roll to serve with dinner or savoury snacks. 

Boil the milk and reduce to blood-heat. Dissolve the yeast in this 
Add the sugar and salt. Stir and let stand for 5 minutes. Melt the 
fat and work in alternately with the flour. Knead for a few minutes 
in the bowl and then turn on to a floured board. Knead wcU until 
smooth and elastic. Put back in warmed bowl, cover with warm 

— [ 184 ] 



cloth and let rise until the bulk is doubled. Roll the dough out to 
about 14 inch thickness. Cut into lengths about 1 inch by 6. 
Place on a greased baking-tin, cover again with cloth and let stand 
until the bulk has considerably increased. Brush with water, 
sprinkle with salt and caraway seeds (if Hked). Bake in a hot oven 
for about 20 minutes. 



POPPY-SEED ROLL 

Mohnkipfel 

1 TO 2 DEPENDING ON SIZE 

2 cups flour 1 egg 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

14 teaspoon salt H cup milk 

Y2 oz. yeast poppy seeds 

Boil the milk and allow to cool to blood heat. Dissolve the yeast 
in it. Add the sugar and salt and let it stand for 5 minutes. Melt 
the butter and let it cool to the same heat as the milk. Add the 
butter, flour and milk alternately and work it in. Knead in the 
bowl with the hand until the dough is smooth and elastic. Leave 
for a few minutes and then knead again. Cover with a warm cloth 
and allow to stand for about 30 minutes. 

Divide the dough into three parts and plait it. Mould it gently 
so tliat each end is pointed. Brush with a httle of the egg which 
you have saved, mixed with water. Sprinkle well with poppy seeds. 
Bake in a moderate oven for about 30 minutes. 



[ 185 ]- 



MILK ROLLS 

Milchrollen 

4 GOOD-SIZED ROLLS 

4 cups flour 1/2 oz. yeast 

1/2 teaspoon salt i/^ cup of butter 

about 1 cup milk egg to glaze 

Bring the milk to the boil and allow to cool to blood heat Dissolve 
the yeast m most of this. Warm the flour add the salt and rub the 
butter mto it. Make a hole in the centre of this and add the liquid 
yeast. Mix to a soft dough and add more milk if required. Knead 
weU. Put m a warm bowl and cover with cloth. Leave for 1 
hour until the size is at least doubled. Turn on to a floured board 
and knead weU again. Shape into roUs, ovals or twists. Place on 
a warmed, greased tin and leave for another 10 to 20 minutes. 

Glaze with beaten egg and bake in a hot oven for 15 to 30 
minutes. These should be golden-brown and very hght. 



CRESCENT ROLLS 

Kipfeln 
ABOUT 12 

114 cups flour 3 tablespoons cream, 
1 V2 tablespoons sugar or creamy milk 

1/2 teaspoon salt 14 cup butter 

1/2 oz. yeast 2 egg yolks 

These rolls were first made in the seventeenth century, after the 
withdrawal of the Turks from the siege of Vienna. It was rather 
a dehghtful, derisive gesture, using part of the Turkish emblem 
to mock the retreating enemy, and if questions were asked, blame 
could not be pinned on anyone. Put the flour in a bowl with the 
salt and leave in a warm place. Blend the yeast and sugar, until 
hquid. 

Make a well in the centre of the flour and put in the yeast. 
Warm the milk sHghtly and beat in the egg yolks. Pour this into 
the well also. Mix a httle. Warm the butter and add to the 
mixture. Knead with the hand in the bowl until the dough is 
smooth. Turn on to a floured board and knead until bubbles form. 
Replace it in the warm bowl and cover with a cloth. Leave to rise 

[ 186 ] 



for 30 minutes or until the dough has swelled to twice its size. 
It should be very soft. Roll the dough out thinly and cut in 6 inch 
squares or smaller if desired. Roll up from comer to comer and 
then bend to crescent shape. 



CRESCENT ROLLS WITH VARIOUS 
FILLINGS 

Kipfeln 

5 cups flour 1 cup milk and water 

l^ teaspoon salt 1 oz. yeast 

1 tablespoon sugar egg and milk to glaze 
1 cup melted butter 

Any of the yeast doughs can be used for these, but this is a sUghtly 
plainer recipe, which will enhance the flavouring of the filhngs. 

Sieve the flour and salt in a bowl. Warm it shghtly. Add the 
milk and water to the melted butter. Bring to blood-heat. Blend 
the yeast and sugar, and add the milk and water. Make a well 
in the flour and pour in this mixture. Knead hghtly until smooth 
and elastic. Cover with cloth and set to rise for about 30 minutes. 
Roll out the dough to about % inch thick. Cut into 6 inch 
squares. Cut agam in half from corner to corner, making 2 triangles. 
On the base of the triangle place the fiUing. Do not let it get near 
the points. Roll up to the corner, pressing down the point. Brush 
over with beaten egg and milk. Leave for a few minutes on a 
greased baking sheet, until the dough starts to work again. Bake 
in a hot oven for about 20 minutes. 

Suggested fiUings: jam, nut and date, ahnond fiUing (page 190), 
chopped stoned raisins and candied peel, chopped crystaUized 
cherries; also cream cheese, or a small piece of rolled ham, or 
a htde finger of sausage meat. Use only a small quantity of the 
fiUings. Bend the crescent into the usual shape. 



[ 187 ]- 



CREAM CHEESE CRESCENTS 

Topfenkipfeln 

Use either the plain dough or the finer yeast dough recommended 
lor kipfehi. See pages 186 and 187. 

14 cup cream 1 cup flour 

cheese 1 egg 

1/2 cup butter 2 tablespoons water 

Cream the butter and beat in with the cream cheese. Add the 
flour slowly. If the mixture is still too moist add more flour. Now 
a^d about half of the cheese mixture in dabs on top of the dough 
Work It m by removing to a floured board and kneading well* 
Place agam m the bowl (warmed) and leave until the dough has 
doubled Its size. Cut the remaining cheese into httle finger-length 
pieces. When the dough has fully risen, roll out agaiS and fut 
into 6 inch squares. Place a finger piece of cheese in the centre, 
angle-ways. RoU from corner to corner. Brush with beaten egg 
and water. Bake in a hot oven for 20 to 25 minutes 



BRIOCHES 

Apostelkuchen 

4 cups flour 14 cup melted butter 

72 teaspoon salt 3^4 cup milk 

1/2 cup sugar 6 egg yolks 

1 oz. yeast 1/2 cup white wine 

Sieve the flour and the salt together. Make a well in the centre 
Blend the yeast and the sugar and a httle of the milk, shghtly 
warmed. Pour this into the well. Cover with a httle flour and 
leave to work for 5 minutes. Melt the butter, beat the egg yolks 
and add this to the dough. Beat with the hand until the mixture 
is soft smooth and sticky. Cover with a warm cloth and leave 
until the dough has doubled its size. Now add the wine and knead 
well in the bowl again. 

Roll out the dough to about a '/, inch thickness. Cut into 
large squares, about 9 or 10 inches. Roll from corner to comer 
Brush with beaten egg and put on a floured baking-tin. Leave 

[ 188 ]— 



a few minutes longer so that they may rise a little more before 
baking. 

Bake in a hot oven for about 40 minutes. 

If small brioches are required, divide this mkture into an equal 
number of small and larger balls. Grease some patty pans. Place 
the larger ball at the bottom. Make a hole in the centre and put 
a small ball in. Brush with egg. Follow the same procedure but 
these, of course, will not take as long as the large brioches. 



YEAST DOUGH 

Germteig 

4 cups flour 3 whole eggs 

1 pinch of salt ^ teaspoon vanilla 
)4 cup sugar essence 

1/2 cup butter Yz cup warm milk 

5 egg yolks 1 oz. yeast 

This is a fine hght dough and can be used for making a variety 
of rolls and pastries, usually with filhngs such as jam, fruit, almonds 
or cream cheese mixture. If these quantities are used several of the 
recipes given can be made and so a variety of deUcious cakes and 
breads provided. 

Warm the milk and the butter and allow them to remain at blood- 
heat. Work the yeasf and the sugar together and stir tliis into the 
warm milk. Beat the butter, egg yolks, whole eggs'and salt to 
a cream and add the yeast mixture. Mix well together. Work the 
flour and the vanilla essence in gradually. Mix with a knife until 
the knife comes clean. Cover the dough with a warm cloth and 
set to rise in a warm place until the size is doubled. 

This is now ready for use in the various recipes suggested. It can 
be rolled out and used as directed. 



[ 189 ] 



YEAST STRUDEL 

Use yeast dough recipe (page 189). 



Almond filling: 



1 cup ground 
almonds 

2 tablespoons white 
breadcrumbs 

^ cup caster sugar 



4 whites of egg 
2 drops almond 

essence 
chopped seeded 

raisins as required 



Work all the mgredients together smoothly. When the dough has 
risen, roU out very thinly, if possible less than ^4 inch thick 
5ipread the ahnond fiUing over the complete surface. Sprinkle 
the raisms over this. Brush the edges of the dough with water. 
Roll up neatly and brush with melted butter. Sprinkle caster sugar 
over the top. Bake m a moderate oven for about 45 minutes. Allow 
to cool and cut in slices. 







-[ 190 ]- 



BUCHTELN 

Use yeast dough as in recipe on page 189. 

For these, various fillings can be used: prune butter, jam, nut 
or almond fillings. 

Nut filling: 

1/^ cup grated hazel- 1 tablespoon butter 

nuts /4 cup cream or top 

14 cup Brazil or any milk 

nuts 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 tablespoons essence 

breadcrumbs ^ cup sugar 

Work all together forming a paste. Keep cool. 

Almond filling : 

1 cup ground 4 egg whites 

ahnonds ^2 cup caster sugar 

2 tablespoons bread- 2 drops ahnond 

crumbs essence 

Work all the ingredients together to form a stiflf paste. 

The dough, which has already risen to twice its size, is now 
ready for rolling out. Roll out on a floured board to a thickness 
of about ^ to 1/2 an inch. Cut into small squares, about 2 to 
3 inches. Spread with the mixture. Roll up from side to side. 
Do not pinch. Place on a buttered tin if possible not touching. 
Brush the tops and sides with melted butter. Leave in a warm 
place to rise imtil they are twice the size. Bake in a moderate oven 
for 45 minutes to 1 hour. 



[ 191 ]- 



FRUIT FLAN 

Use yeast dough mixture (see page 189). 

4 whites of eggs 8 tablespoons caster 

tinned fruit or jam sugar 

Strain any tinned fruit which is sweetened. Pineapple, straw- 
berries, raspberries or apricots are very good. Roll out the dough 
which has risen to twice its size. Cut into a round to fit a sandwich 
tin. Leave for a few minutes in a warm place. Fill the tin with 
the fruit. 

Beat the whites of egg to a very stiff mixture, fold in the caster 
sugar. For one tin, it will only take half this mixture. Spread on 
top of the flan. Sprinkle with grated nuts. Bake in a moderate 
oven for about 30 minutes. 



YEAST PANCAKES WITH JAM 

Bohmische Dalken 

Use the yeast dough recipe (see page 189). 

butter to fry caster sugar 

jam 

When the dough has risen to t%vice its size, roll it out to about 
3/8 inch thick. Cut into small rounds, hke pancakes or drop 
scones, not too large. Melt some butter in a very clean pan, such 
as an omelette pan. Fry the rounds in this. They should be 
a lovely golden brown. Spread one round with jam and cover with 
another. Dust with caster sugar. Can be eaten hot or cold. 



-[ 192 ] 



r 



FAIRY YEAST-CAKES 

Luf tiger Germstrudel 

2 ROLLS AND ABOUT 16 SLICES 

Use yeast dough recipe as for crescent rolls or Kipfeln (page 186). 

Filling: 

1 cup white bread- 6 eggs 

crumbs H cup chopped dates 

1/2 cup stoned or V2 cup sugar 

chopped raisins ^ cup butter 

Most people will immediately connect the word 'Luft' with the 
air or flying, so the only possible translation for this is 'Airy Yeast- 
cakes' or for the sake of euphony and a true description 'Fairy 
Yeast-cakes'. 

To make the filling, beat the yolks and whites of eggs separately. 
See that the whites are very stiff. Mix all the ingredients together 
and lastly fold in the whites of egg. 

Roll out the yeast dough fairly thinly. Spread with above filling. 
Brush the edges of the dough with water. Roll up and brush the 
top with melted butter and sprinkle with caster sugar. Bake in 
a moderate oven for 1 hour. When cool, cut in slices. 



[ 193 ] 



STREUSEL CAKE 

Streuselkuchen 

1 LARGE CAKE 

21/4 cups flour 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons sugar grated rind of lemon 

1 teaspoon salt 14 cup milk 

6 tablespoons melted 1 oz. yeast 
butter 

Thish a cake with a yeast dough base and a Streusel mixture 

Prepare your yeast dough. Bring milk to the boil and allow to 
cool to blood-heat Dissolve the yeast in this and add the sugar 
and sal Stir weU and aUow to stand for 5 minutes. Beat xht 
eggs well and melt the butter to blood-heat. Add the eggs and 
the lemon rmd to the yeast mixture. Then add the flour and the 
melted butter alternately. Beat with the hand until well mixed 
Turn the dough out on to a floured board and leave m a warm 
place for about 10 minutes. Knead weU until the dough is verv 
smooth and elastic. Put it back into a greased bowl and let it 

?«^ mT'i, u^^ ^i^"^' ^°' ^^°"' ^^ °^°"^^5> °r ^til its bulk 
IS doubled. RoU the dough out to about 3/eofan inch thick. Place 
It in a large greased baking tin with deep sides. Dust with flour 
and leave to rise for another 40 minutes. 
While the dough is rising prepare the Streusel, as follows: 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon 

% cup butter cinnamon 

re cup melted butter % cup flour 

Mix all these ingredients together, except the melted butter 
usmg a palette knife to mix. It should then be crumbly. When the 
dough has nsen brush over the top vvith the melted butter. 
Ijpnnkle the Streusel on top as thickly as you hke. Bake in 
a moderate oven for about 45 minutes. 



1 



[ 194 ]- 



Pastries & Cakes 



The making of pastry at home means, to us, fruit and jam 
tarts, pies savoury and sweet, and possibly sausage rolls. 
To the Viennese, pastry in various forms is the basis of an 
infinite variety of cakes, small and large, savoury and sweet. 

The variations are many and the recipes countless. Different 
parts of the country have their own speciahty, and if it were 
possible to visit every village in Austria, even more excmng 
recipes could be obtained. 

Vienna, of course, is famed all the world over for its pastries 
and cakes. There is no Hmit to their variety and fascination. 



[ 195 1 



PUFF PASTRY 

Butterteig 

2 cups white flour 7 tablespoons cold 

11/4 cups butter water 

juice of 1/4 lemon 

Cut a third of the butter off and set on one side. Work the remain- 
ing two thirds m a basin until soft, but allow ice-cold water to run 
over It to keep it cool. Set on one side in a cool place. Do not 
freeze. Put the flour into a cold bowl. Cut the smaU piece of 
butter mto it with a palette knife. Add some of the water and the 
lemon juice. Work with the knife until a smooth dough is obtained, 
addmg as much water as is needed. Knead until quite smooth! 
lum out on a floured board and roU out until about 1/4 inch thick 
Place the cold pat of butter in the centre of the dough so that it is 
kngthways from left to right. Fold the dough over the butter 
from the top and from the bottom. Beat the centre where the 
butter IS to spread it towards each end. Fold the dough towards 
the middle from the left and right hand sides. Beat again, and roU 

"u°"^\i^^P.^^^ ^^ ^"^"^S process once and leave to get cold for 
about 20 imnutes. 

This roUing and folding process must be repeated at least 6 
times, leavmg the dough about 10 minutes between each ma- 
nipulation. For very fancy pastries the roUing and folding and 
chilhng can be repeated up to 10 times. 

The pastry is now ready to be used in the various recipes 



PUFF PASTRY 

A ncher and more elaborate method 

3 cups flour 1 1/^ tablespoons white 
2 beaten egg yolks wine 

4 tablespoons cream ^ teaspoon salt 
cold water if needed 1 y^ cups hard butter 

Divide the flour into. 3 parts. Into one third cut the butter 
m thin shces. Work together until it has formed into a dough. 
Beat It out flat and leave to chill. Sieve the rest of the flour v^ith 
the salt on to a pastry board. Make a hole in the centre. Beat the 

[ 196 ] 



egg yolks, add the cream and the white wine. Pour it into the hole. 
Work to a dough with a palette knife. Roll this out thinly. Place 
the butter dough aheady worked in the centre, and treat it exactly 
the same as the previous puff pastry. 



YEAST PUFF PASTRY 

Butterteig mit Germ 

3 cups flour l^A cups milk 

14 cup sugar ^ cup melted butter 

14 oz. yeast 2 eggs 

Y2 teaspoon salt 1 cup butter 

Bring the milk to the boil and allow to cool to blood-heat. Work 
the yeast and sugar together until hquid. Add the milk and about 
1/2 cup of the flour. Cover with a cloth and allow to rise for about 
30 minutes. Beat the eggs and melted butter together until Ught 
in colour; add the salt. To this add the yeast flour mixture, 
alternately with the remainder of the flour. Knead until it is 
a nice smooth dough. It must be soft so go gently with the floiu:. 
Let it stand in a warm place until doubled in bulk. Work the cup 
of butter until soft but allow ice-cold water to nm over it. Shape 
it into a roll. Cool it. 

Roll the dough out on to a floured board. It should be about 
18 inches long by about 9 inches. Divide the butter roll in half. 
Cutt)ne half into many slices. Place the sUces in the centre of the 
dough covering one third of it. Fold the bottom third over this. 
Now cut the second half of the butter in as many sHces and place 
on top of the double thickness. Fold the top third over this, 
making three thicknesses with the butter in between. Turn the 
other way and roll out. Fold and roll and chill (as directed in the 
first recipe for pufi" pastry) 3 times. Cover with warm cloth and 
leave to rise for 30 minutes. 

It is now ready for use as required. 



[ 197 ]- 



QUICK PUFF PASTRY 

Schneller Butterteig 

2 cups flour 4 egg yolks 

1 cup butter 14 cup water 

1/2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon vinegar 

Have all the ingredients cool. Cut the butter into the flour with 
a palette knife. Add the salt and mix well. Beat the egg yolks 
and add them together with the water and vinegar. Mix with 
kmfe until it is a smooth dough. Turn out on a floured board. 
Roll to about 1/4 inch thick. RoU, fold and chill, in the same way 
as for puff pastry (page 196). Repeat this 3 times. 
It is now ready for use. 



BISCUIT PASTRY 

Biskuitteig 

2 cups flour 1 cup fine sugar 

8 eggs (separated) 

Beat the sugar and egg yolks together until really creamy This 
takes about 15 to 20 minutes if done by hand. Add the flour 
a little at a time and stir. Beat the whites of egg very stiffly and 
fold them into the flour mixture. Butter a deep cake-tin with 
a loose base. Pour the mixture in and bake in a hot oven for about 
45 minutes. 

This cake is very delicious if spht in layers and any filling 
together with whipped cream spread on each layer. Dust the top 
with powdered icing sugar. 



[ 198 ] 



SHORT PASTRY 

Miirbeteig 

3 cups flour pinch of salt 

2 egg yolks 1 teaspoon lemon 

1 cup butter juice 

5 tablespoons sour 
cream 

Cut the butter into the flour with a palette knife. Add the beaten 
egg yolks, the salt, and lemon juice. Finally add the sour cream 
slowly until it is a very soft dough. Wrap it in a cloth and put 
in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes. 

Roll out to about % to 1/2 inch thick. 

This pastry is useful as a crust for pies both sweet and savoury. 
If sweet a little sugar can be added to the dough. 



TARTLET PASTRY 

Tortelettenteig 



rum 



2 cups flour 1 wineglass 

2 egg yolks or brandy 

1 tablespoon sugar 1/2 teaspoon grated 

14 cup butter lemon rind 

Cream the butter and sugar. Add the egg yolks and the brandy 
alternately. Work in the flour, a Uttle at a time. Add the grated 
lemon rind. Work all to a smooth dough. Roll out and cut in 
rounds, tartlet size. Line greased patty-pans and bake in a moder- 
ate oven for 30 minutes. 

These can be filled with various creams and decorated, or with 
any small fruit \\dth whipped cream on top, e. g. mocha cream 
(page 233) or coffee cream (page 213). 



[ 199 ] 



WINE PASTRY 

Weinteig 

2 cups white flour pinch of salt 

4 whites of eggs i teaspoon hot oU 

72 cup white wine 

^'^n?r^ w.'"^'- Stir in the hot oil and wine. Cut and mix 
with a palette knife until the dough is smooth. Fold the stiffly 
bea^n whites of eggs in. Use this pastry for rolling fx^t™ 
such as bananas or shces of apple. Fry in deep fat or oil It should 
be a golden brown. Dust with caster sugar. 



FRENCH PASTRY 

Fladen 

3 cups flour 14 cup cream 

2 cups butter 1/^ teaspoon salt 

Vz cup sugar 

Put the flour into a bowl and cut the butter, which should be very I 
cold into this with a palette knife. Turn out on to a floured I 

W^fi; ^^ ' r" ^ J^' "^'''- ^"' tiie sugar, cream and salt ^ 
mto the well, and mix thoroughly, still with the knife. Now knead 
with the hand until the paste is smooth. Chill in the refrigerator 
Use for tartlets, flans and the base of cakes. 

PUFF PASTRY STICKS 

Butterteigstangeln 

Use the puff" pastry from the recipes on pages 196-197, 

Roll out the pastry to about 1/4 inch thickness. Cut into strips 
about 4 or 5 mches long. They can be left flat, or t^visted hke 
cork-screws. Bake in a hot oven for 20 minutes until golden 
1 hese can be served with soup or stews. If served with cofiee, 
dip the ends in melted chocolate or other icing. 



.[ 200 ] 



STRUDEL DOUGH 

Strudelteig 

2 cups flour % cup lukewarm 
I egg water 

1 tablespoon melted salt 
butter 

Strudel dough is rather like a noodle dough, and should not be 
rolled out on a board in the usual way. It should be stretched by 
hand on a clean floured hnen cloth. It is intended always to have 
a fiUing, such as apples, cheese, chocolate, cherries and so on. 
It is important to remember to have your fiUing ready, before you 
stretch the dough, which should always be paper-thin when ready. 
As you pull and one part gets thin enough, leave it and go to work 
on another section. It should be possible to get it all of an even 

thickness. 

Put the flour on a board. Beat the eggs well. Mix the egg, water 
and melted butter. Make a well in the flour. Pour in the egg-and- 
butter mixture and add the salt. Stir gently so that the flour falls 
down from the sides into the well. It wiU be sticky at first. Flour 
the hands and knead. Rub the first sticky dough off your hands 
and flour again. Knead until it becomes smooth and elastic. Toss 
once or twice. Stretch once and knead again. Leave it covered 
in a warm place for about 1 hour. 

Cover the table with a linen cloth and dust with flour. Put the 
dough in the middle and roll out shghtly. Now stretch by hand 
and follow the instructions given above. The filling should be 
placed on the dough while it is still on the cloth. It can then be 
roUed up and got into shape by hfting the cloth. Pinch the edges 
together to seal the contents. Do not fill right to the edges. 



[ 201 ]- 



APPLE STRUDEL 

Apfelstrudel 

Use Strudel dough recipe (page 201). 

3 large apples grated rind 1/2 lemon 

1/2 cup raisins ^4 cup sugar 

(seecUess) 1/2 cup melted butter 

72 cup chopped 

walnuts 

Core and peel the apples. SUce very thinly. Mix with all the 
other mgredients and spread over the Strudel do^gh A^e^t 
wha ever size you wish The larger it is the better fla^ur k^eni 
to have Pour some of the melted butter on top. With xhtJ^Z 

T A f "^^ ^"^ "^°^> «^ ^^'^h ^e dough is lyin^ roU^the 
Strudel up. Pinch the ends together. Do not fill^|ht to Se 

tT^ ^rf "^^ '^^^ ^^ ^ ^^^ brush and seal. ^P lace Se 
seaed side down on the baking sheet. Brush the top S Se 
meked butter Bake for 45 minutes in a moderate oven, 
wnen cold dust with icing sugar. 



CHERRY STRUDEL 

Kirschenstrudel 

Use Strudel dough recipe (page 201). 

s^'rh^r.'''''^l'5^ '^' "^"y "' ^PP^^ S^^del, but Stone and 
shce cherries which are not sweet. 



[ 202 ] 



CREAM CHEESE STRUDEL 

Strudel mit Topfen 

Use Strudel dough recipe (page 201). 

1 cup cream cheese grated rind of 1 small 

1 cup cream lemon 

2 tablespoons butter 4 whole eggs 

34 cup fine sugar 1 cup seedless raisins 

14 teaspoon ground (small) 

cinnamon 

Beat the eggs well. Cream the butter and sugar. Put the cream 
cheese through a sieve. To the creamed butter mixture add the 
cheese, cream, sugar, cinnamon, lemon rind, and the beaten eggs. 
Lastly add the stoned raisms. Spread this filling over the Strudel 
dough. Wet the edges of the dough. Roll up as in Apple Strudel. 
Seal the edges. Turn the sealed side downward. Cut small sUts 
in the top and bake in a moderate oven for about 1 hour. 
Allow to cool and then dust with icing sugar. 



CREAM STRUDEL 

Rahmstrudel 

Use Strudel dough recipe (page 201). 

1/2 cup butter 3 cups sour cream 

t eggs, separated grated rind of 1 small 

Y2. cup sugar lemon 

2 tablespoons 1 cup sultanas 
warmed butter (J)lumped) 

Cream the butter and sugar. Add the beaten egg yolks one by one. 
Add the cream and the lemon rind. Stir in the sultanas. Have 
the egg whites beaten stiffly. Now fold these into the mixture. 
This "should be enough for two or three Strudeki. Spread the 
mixture on the dough. Wet the edges with a pastry brush. RoU 
up and seal. Make a few cuts on the top. This is to allow the 
steam to escape so that the dough will not burst. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven for about 1 hour. Every 10 minutes brush the top v^th 
the melted butter. 

[ 203 ] 



CHOCOLATE STRUDEL 

Schokoladens trudel 

Use Stxudel dough recipe (page 201). 

1 tablespoon cooking 1 heaped tablespoon 
chocolate, grated ground almonds 

8 eggs ^4 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup of brown essence 

breadcrumbs % cup sugar 

2 tablespoons butter 

Roll out the chilled dough and cut in several strips. Melt the 
chocolate and butter in a pan but do not allow to get too hot. 
Separate the egg-yolks and whites. Beat the yolks and add to the 
melted chocolate and butter. Add the sugar, breadcrumbs, 
almonds and vanilla essence. Lastly stir in the stiffly whipped 
whites of eggs. Wet the edges of the strips of dough with a pastry 
brush. Spread the mixture on the strips. RoU up and seal. Cut 
little slits in the tops. Brush with melted butter. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven for from 45 minutes to 1 hour. When cold sprinkle 
with icing sugar. Cut in shces. 



BACON STRUDEL 

Schinkenstrudel 

Use Strudel dough recipe (page 201). 

3 cups chopped bacon 6 eggs 

1 cup white bread- a Uttle salt and pepper 

crumbs 

Strudeln can be filled with any meat and vegetable fillings. They 
are then usually boiled or steamed. Only this recipe is given as 
any chopped meat or vegetables bound together with eggs can 
be used and the procedure is the same. 

Have ready a linen cloth with a sheet of buttered paper on it. 
Also have ready a large pot of boiling salted water. Separate the 
egg yolk and whites. Mix together the chopped bacon, breadcrumbs 
and seasoning. Stir in the egg yolks, beaten. Lastly fold in the 
egg whites. Spread this stuffing on the dough. Wet the edges. 
Roll and seal. Place this on the buttered paper. Tie up in shape 
in the linen cloth and boil for 2 hours. Serve hot, cut in slices. 

[ 204 ] 



WINE STRUDEL 

Weinstrudel 

Use Stnidel dough recipe (page 201). 

2 cups breadcrumbs 3 tablespoons butter 

14 cup white sugar 1 bottle white wine 

Fry the breadcrumbs in the butter until a golden brown. Add 
the sugar and half of the wine. Mix well. Fill the Strudel Dough 
as directed in the other Strudebi. Roll and seal. Bake in a hot 
oven for about 10 minutes. Pour over the remainder of the wine 
and bake in a moderate oven for about 30 minutes more. It should 
be a nice golden brown. Dredge well with caster sugar. 



FRIED STRAWS 

Gebackenes Stroh 

6 OR 8 SERVINGS WITH MAIN DISH 

3 egg yolks V2 cup creamy milk 

1 whole egg Y2 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

2 cups flour (melted) 

deep fat for frying 1 tablespoon yeast 

Beat the egg yolks and the whole egg separately. Blend the yeast 
with the creamy milk. Beat in the egg yolks and the whole egg. 
Warm a bowl and mix together the flour, sugar and salt. Pour the 
yeast mixture into the flour and add the melted butter. Work the 
whole into a dough, until it does not stick to the spoon. Cover 
with a warm cloth and leave to rise to twice the size. Knead again 
and cut into thin strips. Fry in deep fat until golden brown. 
Drain on greaseproof paper. Sprinkle with sugar or cheese 
(Parmesan), according to what you are going to garnish. They can 
be served with sweet puddings or stews and savouries. 



[ 205 ] 



HONEY-CAKES 

Mein Lieblingshonigkuchen 



3^2 cups flour 
^2 cup honey 

1 cup sugar 
Yi cup ground 
almonds 

1 egg 

1 level teaspoon 

baking-soda 

2 tablespoons water 



54 cup citron and 

orange peel 

chopped 
V4 cup butter 
pinch of cinnamon, 

powdered 
cloves, nutmeg and 

mixed spice 



Melt the honey and sugar in the water. Pour into a bowl and 
gradually stir m the flour. Melt the butter and stir in, alternately 
with the beaten egg. Stir in all the other ingredients. Mix well 
together and place in the refrigerator for several hours. 

Roll out and cut in fancy shapes. Bake about 15 to 20 minutes 
m a moderate oven. This recipe bums rather easily. When cold 
ice with rum, nut or chocolate icing (see pages 234-236). The 
icing can be omitted altogether if desired. 



BISHOP^S BREAD 

Bischofbrot 



\ 



34 cup butter 
^ cup sugar 
5 egg yolks 
5 egg whites 
rind and juice 
of 1 lemon 
1 cup flour 



1 cup chopped citron 
peel, sultanas, 
orange-peel and 
cooking chocolate 
(in little lumps, 
not grated) 



Beat the butter and sugar to a cream. Add the egg yolks well- 
beaten, one at a time. Beat very well and add tlie lemon juice. 
Mix all the dry ingredients together. Beat the egg whites to a stifi" 
froth. Fold the flour mixture and the whites of eggs into the 
butter mixture alternately. It should be a nice creamy batter. 
Pour into a well-greased deep cake-tin with a loose base. Bake 
for 1 hour in a moderate oven. 



-[ 206 ]- 



FRUIT LOAF 

Kletzenbrot 

2 GOOD-SIZED LOAVES 

4 cups brown flour 1 large teaspoon 
1 ^ cups luke-warm yeast 

milk 1 Yz cups stoned 
1 cup prunes raisins 

(stoned) 1 cup mixed nuts, 
1 cup figs walnut, hazel and 

1 cup dates (stones) almonds (chopped) 

Y2, cup citron peel 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 lemon and ground cloves 

1 bitter orange 2 tablespoons sugar 

^ glass rum pinch salt 

Melt the yeast in the luke-warm milk. Sieve the flour and make 
a well in the centre. Pour in the yeast mixture and mix to a soft 
dough. ICnead until quite smooth. Cover with a warm cloth and 
leave to rise until doubled in size. 

Chop all the fruits together. Chop the nuts roughly. Add all 
the other ingredients including the rum. Let stand for several 
hours. When the dough is risen and the fruits ready mix all 
together. Knead together until well blended. Form into long 
loaves. Allow to rise in a warm place for another hour. Bake in 
a moderate oven for about 1 to 1 ^ hours. 



FLORENTINE TARTLETS 

Florentiner Torteletten 

Use Tartlet Pastry (page 199). 

Roll the pastry thinly. Line the tartlet tins. Bake in a moderate 
oven for 20 minutes. When cool put some fresh fruit into each 
tartlet. Take some Florentine cream (page 213) and pipe from 
a forcing-bag on top of the fruit. 

Fresh or tinned fruit, such as strawberries, raspberries, cherries 
or gooseberries, can be used. 



[ 207 



CHOCOLATE SLICES 

Schokoladenschni tun 

1 cup flour 1 cup grated cooking 
34 cup sugar chocolate 

6 eggs (separated) jam 

1 cup ground chocolate icing 
ahnonds (page 234) 

Work the butter and sugar to a cream. Add the beaten egg yolks. 
Mix in the floiu:, almonds and grated chocolate alternately. Lastly 
fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites. 

Put in a large flat baking-sheet with sides. The mixture should 
be spread thinly. 

Bake in a moderate oven for about 45 minutes. While still warm 
cut in two pieces. Spread one piece with warm jam. Place the 
other on top. Ice with chocolate icing. Cut in slices. 



VIENNA TURNOVERS 

Wiener Maultaschen 
Use first puff pastry recipe (page 196), or short pastry (page 199). 

Roll the pastry out to about ^ inch thickness. Cut in squares. 
Any fillings can be used, almond or nut (page 191) or just plain 
jam. Place a good teaspoonful of the fillin g in the centre of the 
squares. Lift the four corners towards the centre. About 1 inch 
from the tips of each corner, pinch the edges together. Fold the 
points back, rcveaUng the filling. Place on a greased baking-dish. 
Brush the tops with beaten egg yolk. Sprinkle with coarse sugar 
and bake in a moderate oven from 20 to 25 minutes. They should 
be golden brown. 

VIENNESE BISCUITS 

Wiener Biskuits 

5 eggs 1 14 cups flour 

1 cup caster sugar (not self raising) 

Beat the eggs for 5 minutes. Add the sugar and beat for another 
15 minutes. Gradually add the flour and beat all until hght and 
smooth 

[ 208 ] 



Have ready some baking sheets, buttered and floured. Put the 
mixture into a forcing-bag and gently force the biscuits into the 
shape of an hour-glass. Dredge with caster sugar and bake m 
a hot oven for about 8 minutes. They should be a very Ught 
golden brown. Serve with dessert. 



NUT BISCUITS 

Nufibiskuits 

3 egg yolks 6 egg whites 

34 cup sugar 1 whole egg 

1 1/2 cups flour 1 cup chopped nuts 

vanilla essence a httle dusting sugar 

Beat the 3 egg yolks and sugar together. Add the vanilla essence 
and fold in the flour. Mix well. Beat the 6 egg whites to a sti£f 
froth and fold into the mixture. Pipe this mixture in dabs on to 
a large buttered baking sheet, leaving room for the biscuits to 
spread. Bake in a fairly cool oven for about 40 minutes. 

Separate the whole egg. Brush the biscuits with the yolk, and 
then with the white, stiffly whipped. Sprinkle the chopped nuts 
on top and finally add a dusting of sugar. Allow to cool on the 
baking sheet. Then remove carefully to a wire tray and let dry off 



TEA COOKIES 

Teebrotchen 

ABOUT 24 

2 cups flour 3 eggs 

y2 cup sugar ^ cup sultanas 

1/2 cup butter or currants 

Cream the butter and sugar. Gradually add the eggs and the flour. 
Beat until Ught. Add the currants. Mix well. Butter a sheet of 
grease-proof paper and place on a large baking sheet. Drop Uttle 
heaps from a teaspoon, leaving space between. Bake in a moderate 
oven for 20 or 30 minutes. They are more attractive if kept small. 

[ 209 ] 



COFFEE COOKIES 

Kaffeekikhlein 

ABOUT 12 

1 cup flour 3 tablespoons sugar 

1/4 cup butter l tablespoon caster 

4 eggs sugar 

Separate one whole egg and leave the white on one side. Warm 
the milk in a saucepan. Add the butter and sugar. Mow to get 
just to boiling point. Now add the flour and stir over the heat 
until very smooth. Let cool and add the whole eggs and egg yolk 
one at a time. Mix each one weU before adding the next Pipe 
from a pastry-bag in fancy shapes on a greased baking sheet 
Bake m a moderate oven for 25 to 35 minutes. 

Beat the egg whites stiffly together with the tablespoon of caster 
sugar. Brush the tops of the cookies with the meringue mixture. 
Return to the oven for a few minutes to set the frosting. 



VIENNA GUGELHUPF 

Wiener Gugelhupf 

ABOUT 2 TO 3 

3 cups flour y^ cup stoned raisins 
V2 cup butter and currants 

1/4 cup caster sugar 12 sweet ahnonds 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoon yeast 

3 eggs 

Dissolve the yeast in a little warm milk. Put the flour in a warmed 
bowl. Melt the butter. Put the eggs in a hole in the centre of the 
flour. Add the melted butter, the sugar and the dissolved yeast. 
Mix all very well together until very smooth. Finally stir in the 
raisins and currants. Have a cyUndrical mould well greased. 
(These moulds are essential for the Gugelhupf. The nearest 
thing that one can suggest is a large jam jar with straight sides). 
This mixture would make at least three. Blanch and shce the 
ahnonds very finely and strew on the buttered sides of the mould. 
Pour the mixture in on this, fiUing only three quaners full. Put the 
moulds in a warm place. Cover and leave to rise until the moulds 
are full. 

Place on a thick baking-tin and bake for about 1 hour. This, 
[ 210 ] 



of course, depends on the size of the mould. It should turn out 
easily when sufficiently baked. Place on a wire tray and dust with 
caster sugar. 

RICH GUGELHUPF 

Feiner Gugelhupf 

2 CAKES 

2 cups flour 2 tablespoons grated 

4 eggs almonds 

5 tablespoons milk ^ teaspoon vanilla 
^2 cup sugar essence 

14 cup butter 1 tablespoon baking 

powder 

Separate the eggs. Warm the butter and beat into it one egg 
yolk, a Uttle sugar, flour and a drop or two of vanilla essence 
alternately. Repeat this until all these are used up. Beat the egg 
whites very stiiffly and fold into the mixture. Lastly add the 
baking powder. 

Pour the mixture into a well-buttered cylindrical mould, having 
sprinkled the grated nuts round the sides. Bake in a moderate 
oven for about 1 hour. Allow to cool in the mould for 10 minutes 
and then remove to a wire tray to finish cooling. Dust with icing 
sugar or coat with chocolate icing (see page 234). 

GUGELHUPF 

2 OR 3 CAKES 

1 cup milk grated rind and juice 
1 cup butter of 1 orange 

^ cup sugar ^ cup stoned raisins 
4 eggs soaked in 

1 tablespoon yeast ^ cup rum 

3^/2 cups flour 

Dissolve the yeast in the milk, which has been brought to the boil 
and allowed to cool. Cover with a few tablespoons of flour. Set 
aside in a warm place and cover again. Allow to rise for 30 minutes. 
Cream the butter and sugar. Beat the eggs and add them to the 
butter mixture, a little at a time. Now add the grated orange rind 
and juice, also the raisins. To this, add the yeast mixture and the 
flour alternately. 

[ 211 ] 



Grease a large cyUndrical mould. Dust the sides with dry 
breadcrumbs. Fill the mould or moulds half full only. Set in 
a warm place to rise until they are quite full. Bake for 45 minutes 
to 1 hour, depending on the size of the mould, in a moderate oven. 

Allow to cool for 10 minutes before turning out on to a wire tray! 
When quite cold dust with icing sugar. 

VOL-AU-VENT 

Pastetchen 

This must be included under pastries as it is made from either 
of the first two puflf pastry recipes on page 196. 

The pastry should be very cold before starting. Roll it out 
thinly on a floured board. Put a cake tin, or smaU plate or a tum- 
bler, according to the size of Vol-au-vent you want, on the pastry 
and cut round it. Cut at least 5 of these. Take one of these 
rounds as the base. On the other rounds, cut out a circle from 
the centre. On the large one, the ring left should not be less than 
2 mches wide. On the smaller Vol-au-Vent, naturaUy the rims 
are less wide. The rings which you have cut out of the centres 
are the hds. Place them carefully on a baking sheet for ovening. 
Damp the edge of the round base with a pastry brush, dipped in 
water. Place the first ring on top. Damp this in turn and place 
the next ring on top. Continue until all are used up. Sprinkle 
the baking sheet with cold water before placing the cases on it. 
The steam helps to keep the shape. Bake in a hot oven for about 
45 minutes, depending on the size of your Vol-au-Vent. 

Fill with various mixtures. Place the lid on top and serve hot 
or cold. 

DOUGHNUTS 

Krapfen 

ABOUT 18 

2 cups flour 2 tablespoons melted 

1 tablespoon sugar butter 

a pinch salt 4 egg yolks 

% cup milk 1 egg white 

J2in 2 teaspoons yeast 

1 cup milk (warm) 

Warm a bowl and put the flour and salt in. Blend the yeast with 
the sugar until hquid. Add2 tablespoons of the warm milk. Make 

[ 212 ] 



a hole in the centre of the flour. Pour the yeast mixture into this 
hollow and cover with a warm cloth. Leave in a warm place to rise. 
Beat the egg yolks and the butter, add the rest of the warm milk 
and beat to a cream. Work this mixture into the flour and yeast. 
Beat the egg white to a stiff froth and fold in. Work all this 
together until you have a fine smooth dough. Cover again and 
leave in a warm place until it has doubled its size. Divide the 
dough in two. Roll out each to about 1/2 inch thickness. With 
a plain patty pan cutter, mark out ckcles on one half. Brush these 
rounds with a wet pastry brush. Put a dot of jam in the centre. 
On the other half of the dough cut out the same size circles. 
Place one on top of each jammed circle. Pinch the edges together 
and cut right through to the board. Roll up what dough is left. 
Knead again. Repeat the process until all the dough is used up. 
Place all the doughnuts on a floured board and leave in a warm 
place imtil they have risen well. Have a pan of deep clean fat very 
hot. Drop the doughnuts in and fry golden brown. They should 
take 7 to 8 minutes. Do not put too many in as they swell consid- 
erably. Drain on absorbent paper. Dust with granulated sugar 
and serve while fresh. 

COFFEE CREAM 

Kajfeecreme 

^2 cup sugar 2 tablespoons 

2 tablespoons butter strong coffee 

2 egg yolks 

Melt the butter and sugar together in a saucepan. Add the coffee 
over a gentle heat. When the sugar is quite dissolved beat in the 
egg yolks. Remove the saucepan from the heat, and beat thor- 
oughly until the mixture becomes like a cream. Fill the tartlets 
and squeeze a pyramid of whipped cream on top. 

FLORENTINE CREAM 

Florentiner Rahm 

8 egg yolks I/2 cup sugar 

2 whole eggs a few drops vanilla 

% cup melted butter essence 

Beat the egg yolks and the whole eggs together. Add the sugar 
and the vanilla essence. Melt the butter very slowly in a double 

[ 213 ] 



pan. Stir in the egg-and-sugar mixture. Stir aU until it thickens 
to a fa^ly thick consistency. Place in the refrigerator until quite 
cool. Beat unul a light cream. 



NUT FILLING 

Nufifiillung 



1 cup grated mixed 

nuts 
34 cup sugar 
1 tablespoon butter 



vanilla essence 
2 tablespoons brown 

breadcrumbs 
34 cup cream 



Work all together until a fairly stiif paste has been formed. Allow 
to get very cold and use as directed. 



ALMOND FILLING 

Mandelfiillung 



1 cup ground 
almonds 

34 cup caster sugar 

2 drops almond 
essence 



4 egg whites 
2 tablespoons white 
breadcrumbs 



Mix the almonds and sugar together. Add the breadcrumbs and 
the almond essence. Stir in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Work 
all together and use as directed. 



ik 







\ 214 ]- 



Torten 

I fT^he Torte can be called a cake, but it is so far removed from 
r I the usual conception of a cake tliat it is almost untranslat- 
I able. The nearest confection that we know to which it can 
be compared is the American strawberry shortcake. Even then it 
is not really very like it except in the making, for the Torte is 
always highly decorated and usually associated with festive occa- 
sions. 

Torten can have many layers and they can be flat, but they are 
always large. Various fruits are used m many different ways, also 
nuts and even cheese, but always there must be cream. This can 
be incorporated in the mixture or whipped and added on top 
of the various fillings. 

In fact there is no end to the ingenuity used by the Viennese 
and Hungarians in this fascinating branch of cooking. 



-[ 215 ] 



VIENNA TORTE 

Wiener Torte 

4 whole eggs 1 teaspoon grated 

1 1/2 cups white sugar lemon rind 

1 cup butter apricot jam 

4 egg yolks fondant icing 

21/2 cups flour (page 232) 

cream 
Beat the egg yolks and the whole eggs together. Add the butter 
and sugar. Beat well until the mixture is creamy. Fold in the flour 
and the grated lemon rind. Butter 4 large deep sandwich tins. 
Spread the mixture equally in these 4 tins. Bake in a hot oven 
for 30 minutes. Allow to cool in the tins. Turn out very carefully 
on a flat surface. Spread each layer with apricot jam, and place 
on top of each other. Ice with fondant icing and decorate with 
cherries and angehca. Serve with whipped cream. 

LINZER TORTE 

1 1/^ cups flour 14 cup ground 

1 cup sugar ahnonds 
1/2 cup butter 2 egg yolks 

2 cups jam, rasp- 1 teaspoon powdered 

berry, currant cinnamon 

or strawberry grated rind and juice 

of 1 lemon 
This must have come from the city of Linz, in upper Austria. 
Nevertheless it has been associated with Vienna for so long that 
it has come to be thought completely Viennese. Sieve the flour 
and mix in all the dry ingredients, sugar, ahnonds, cinnamon and 
grated lemon rind. Work the butter and egg yolks together until 
smooth. Add these to the flour mixture together with the juice 
of the lemon. Mix well. Remove the paste to a floured board and 
roll out to 1/4 inch thickness. Line a greased flan or sandwich tin 
with the paste. Roll out what is left over again, and cut in long 
strips about % inch wide. Fill the flan with jam and cover the 
top with criss-cross strips. Sprinkle with caster sugar. Bake in 
a hot oven for about 35 minutes. When cool put more fresh jam 
in between the lattice work. This paste should be kept very cool 
until the time of evening. Serve with whipped cream. 

[ 216 ] 



BROWN LINZER TORTE 



2 cups brown or 
wholemeal flour 

1 cup brown sugar 

2 cups ground 

almonds 
1 cup melted butter 
3 eggs 



14 teaspoon ground 

nutmeg 
14 teaspoon ground 

cinnamon 
grated rind of half 

lemon 



Sieve the flour and mix m all the dry mgredients, sugar, almonds, 
nutmeg, cinnamon and rind of lemon. Beat the butter and 2 
eggs together until smooth and creamy. Add these to the flour 
mixture. Mix well and turn on to a floured board. Roll out to 
14 inch thick. Line greased sandwich tins with the paste. 
With what is left over make a treUis work for a third tin. Brush 
the top one, the gate, with beaten egg before baking. 

Bake all three in a moderate oven for 45 minutes. 

Turn out when cool. Spread jam on each layer and brush the 
top gate with burnt sugar icing. When completed drop a little 
fresh jam in the holes of the lattice work. 



TRIESTER TORTE 



8 egg yolks 
14 cup butter 
14 cup ground 

almonds 
3/4 cup sugar 



% cup fine plain cake 

crumbs 
2 egg whites 
apricot jam 
whipped cream 



Cream the butter and sugar, work in the egg yolks and cake 
crumbs. Now work in the ground ahnonds. Beat the egg whites 
to a stiff froth and fold these in last of all. Butter a round cake-tin 
and dust with flour. Bake in a moderate oven for 1 hour. Allow 
to cool before turning out. When cold cut the Torte in half. 
Spread the lower half with apricot jam and wliipped cream. 
Spread the bottom half of the top layer with jam and place one 
on top of the other. Cover the top with whipped cream. Decorate 
the top with a few pistachio nuts. 



-[ 217 1- 



TRAUNKIRCHENER TORTE 

V2 cup butter 2 cups white flour 

2 egg whites 1 cup icing sugar 

Y2 cup sugar apricot jam 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream. Work in the white flour, 
sieved Butter 3 sandwich-tins and pour the mixture equaUy 
into aU three. Cook in a moderate oven for about 30 minutes 
AJlow to cool and spread with plenty of apricot jam. Pile on top 
of each other. Warm 1/0 a cup of apricot jam and beat in the 
whipped white of the eggs, also the icing sugar. 

This can be spread over the top of the Torte or piped in fancy 
patterns. Allow to get very cold. It can be kept for several day« 
and IS improved. 



SACHER TORTE 

1 ^ cups cooking 5 eggs 

chocolate raspberry jam 

1 V2 cups fine white chocolate icing 
sugar (page 234) 

1 V2 cups flour 2 tablespoons rum 

This takes its name from the owner of a famous hotel in Vienna 
in the tune of the Emperor Franz Joseph. She was a rather tough' 
jovial, agar-smoking lady, whom one would certainly not associate 
with anything as dehcate as the Sacher Torte. 

Cream the butter and sugar. Beat weU. Separate the eggs and 
beat the whites to a stiff froth. Add the yolks to the creamed 
butter and sugar and beat again. Fold in the whites of egg and 
the flour alternately and mix well. Melt the chocolate on a saucepan 
wiAahttlerumandaflowtocool. Add this to the mixture. Butter 
and flour 2 cake tins or Torte tins. Divide the mixture between 
than and bake m a moderate oven for about 45 minutes to 1 hour 

Allow the cakes to cool. Cover one half with raspberry jam 
and place the other on top. Cover this with chocolate icing 



[ 218 ] 



APPLE TORTE 

Apfeltorte 

1 cup butter 4 tablespoons sour 
2^2 cups flour milk or cream 
pinch of salt a few drops of lemon 

2 egg yolks juice 

Cut the butter into the flour. Beat the egg yolks and add, together 
with the salt. Add the sour cream gradually, until the dough is 
soft, also the drops of lemon juice. Roll it up and let it get cold. 
10 minutes in the refrigerator will do. 

Roll out about % of an inch thick. Place in a large flan-dish, 
rather deep, for the apples are bulky. Leave to get cold again 
while you prepare the rest. 

Apple filling: 

8 apples ^ lemon peel, 
^ cup sugar grated 

1 cup water small stick cinnamon 
1 cup white wine 

Peel and quarter the apples. Mix the wine, water and sugar, and 
bring slowly to the boil. Add the lemon peel and cinnamon. Pour 
this over the apples, being careful not to break up the quarters. 
Cook very slowly until the apples are half cooked, still keeping 
their shape. Drain all liquid ofi". Place on the cold pastry after 
they are cool. Leave some space between each quarter for the next 
fillin g to be poured over. 

Filling: 

3 whole eggs and grated rind 

3 egg yolks of 1 lemon 

1 ^ cups caster sugar % cup of ground 
grated rind almonds 

of 1 orange juice of the lemon 

Beat the whole eggs, the egg yolks and the sugar together unti 
creamy and hght yellow. Add the ground ahnonds, the grated 
rinds of orange and lemon, also the lemon juice. Mix all together. 
Pour over the apples. 

Bake in a moderate oven for 45 minutes to an hour until the 
filling is set and yellow in colour. 

[ 219 ] ^ 



BUTTER TORTE 

10 eggs 3^ cup ground 
% cup fine white almonds 

sugar jam 

2 cups fine white whipped cream 

,^ ^o^r butter icing (page 235) 

% cup butter 

Separate the egg yolks and the whites. Melt the butter. Beat the 
egg yolks and add alternately with the flour to the sugar until aU 
are used up. Add the melted butter and ahnonds a spoonful at 
a tmie, beatmg all the time. Beat the egg whites to a stiff firoth 
and fold mto the mixnire. Grease and flour 3 cake-tins. Divide 
the mixture between the three. Bake in a moderate oven for 
30 mmutes. Allow the rounds to cool. Spread two of the rounds 
with jam and whipped cream. On the top one spread a thin layer 
of jam only. Cover with butter icing (page 235). 



ORANGE TORTE 

Orangentorte 

grated rind and juice 14 cup butter 

of 1 orange 4 eggs separated 

1 cup fine white orange butter 
flour (page 232) 

1 cup sugar 

Cream the butter and sugar. Add the beaten egg yolks and flour 
alternately. Stir in the orange rind and juice. Whip the egg 
whites stiffly and fold into the mixture. Put in a buttered and 
floured deep cake-tin with a loose base. Bake in a moderate oven 
for 45 minutes to 1 hour. Cover with orange butter. 



[ 220 ] 



FRUIT TORTE 

Fruchttorte 

1/2 cup butter a pinch of ground 

1 1/2 cups flour cloves or cinna- 

14 cup ground mon 

almonds any fruits, fresh or 

3^ cup sugar tinned 

strawberry, raspberry, 
apricots bananas 
or pineapple 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream. Work in the flour, ground 
almonds and cinnamon. Beat to a smooth dough. Grease and 
flour a round cake-tin. Put the dough in and level the top off. 
Bake in a moderate oven for 45 minutes to 1 hour. When it is 
cool, turn out. The top should be fairly level. Chop fresh fruit 
or a mixture. Pile about an inch thick and evenly on top. Glaze 
this with a transparent glaze (see page 235). 



CHESTNUT TORTE 

Kastanientorte 

1 cup butter 21/2 cups flour 
4 tablespoons hght 2 egg yolks 

cream pinch salt 

2 or 3 drops of lemon 

juice 

Put the flour into a bowl and cut the butter into it with a knife. 
Mix the lemon juice with the cream. Add the egg yolks and salt 
to the flour mixture. Stir and finally add the cream until you have 
a soft rather crumbly dough. Wrap in a cloth and put in the 
refrigerator until cooled. 

Roll out the cold pastry and Hne the bottom of a deep cake tin. 
Let it come up the sides about 1 inch. See that the walls are 
greased as well as the bottom. Fill with chestnut filling (page 232) 
and bake in a moderate oven for 1 hour. 



[ 221 ] 



RADETZKY CHESTNUT TORTE 

Radetzky-Kastanientorte 

1 1/2 cups caster sugar 1 saltspoon dry 

4 cups boiled coffee 

chestnuts 14 egg yolks 
1 cup butter 

Mash the chestnuts as finely as possible. Cream the butter and 
sugar and add the dry coffee. Now add the mashed chestn^^ J 
and egg yolks alternately. Work into a paste. Spread this on two 1 
l^ge round tms, weU greased and floured. Bake for about 45 min- I 
utes ma moderate oven. Allow to cool in the tins before removing. ' 

Filling: 

1 cup mashed 1/^ cup caster sugar 

chestnuts 2 tablespoons rum 

2 egg whites 

Mix aU these together until they are a creamy paste. Spread on 
the lower round. Place the other round on top. Ice the top with 
nut icmg (page 235). ^ P '^ 



CHEESE TORTE 

Kasetorte 

Pastry Lining: 

3 cups white flour 14 cup cream 

1 cup butter 4 egg yolks 

V2 teaspoon salt 

Sieve the flour into a bowl and cut the butter into it with a knife 
Work m the beaten egg yolks, the cream and salt, until the dough 
IS smooth and not too moist. Roll it up in a cloth and leave it in the 
refrigerator until really cold. When cold, roU it out and Hne the 
bottom of a greased and floured cake-tin. Allow it to come up the 
sides about 1 inch. ^ 

Fill level with cheese fiUing (page 233) and bake in a moderate 
oven for about 45 minutes. Allow to cool before turning out. 

[ 222 ]— 



DATE TORTE WITH NUTS 

Datteltorte mit Niissen 

1 cup dates chopped 5 large eggs 

very finely 1 cup white sugar 

1 cup nuts, grated 1 tablespoon vanilla 

1 teaspoon baking essence 

powder 

Separate the eggs. Beat the yolks and the sugar together until 
they are creamy and Hght coloured. Add the baking powder and 
the vanilla essence. Dust the dates with flour, and add these 
alternately with the nuts to the egg mixture. Beat the whites until 
they are stiff and fold in. Butter 2 large cake-tins and pour the 
mixture in. Bake in a moderate oven for about 20 minutes. 

Spread the bottom layer of the Torte with redcurrant jelly and 
whipped cream. Ice with lemon icing (page 236). 



COFFEE CREAM CAKE 

Mokkatorte 

1 cup flour 4 eggs 

3/4 cup ground 1 tablespoon strong 

almonds black coffee 

34 cup sugar (Mocha) 

Separate the egg yolks and whites. Beat the yolks and sugar 
together until creamy. Add the ground almonds and the tablespoon 
of coffee. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Fold this in alternately 
with the flour, until the whole is stiff but quite hght. Grease 2 
cake-tins and dust with flour. Bake in a moderate oven for about 
30 minutes. Fill and cover with Mocha cream (page 233). 



[ 223 ] 



MACAROON TORTE 

Makronentorte 

y2 cup fine, dry a few drops of almond 

white bread- extract 

crumbs 7 eggs 

1 ^ cups ground 1 1/2 cups caster sugar 

almonds 

Separate the whites of egg and beat to a stiff froth. Gradually 
add the sugar and beat until the mixture is very stiff (as for 
meringue). 

Add the ground ahnonds and the breadcrumbs alternately, until 
it is all mixed well. 

Grease a cake tin and sprinkle with breadcrumbs. Pour the 
mixture into the tin. 

Bake in a slow oven for 45 minutes to 1 hour. Decorate with 
small macaroons, and serve with whipped cream. 



NUT TORTE 

Nu_^torte 

1 cup sugar 14 cup flour 

6 ^ggs y^ teaspoonful grated 

1 Yz cups of grated lemon peel 

nuts (can be wal- 1 tablespoon rum 

nuts, hazelnuts, 

or filberts) 

Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs. Beat the yolks and 
sugar together until creamy. Add the nuts and mix well together. 
Beat the egg whites to a stiff froth. Fold in the flour and egg 
whites alternately, adding the rum and grated lemon peel. Mix 
smoothly. 

Put in large sandwich or cake tin. Bake in a moderate oven for 
40 to 45 minutes. When cold, spht in half and spread bottom 
half with raspberry jam and whipped cream. This can also be 
iced with rum frosting (page 236). Decorate with a few roughly 
chopped nuts. 



[ 224 ]- 



\ 



LAYER CAKE 

Doboschtorte 

1 cup fine white flour pinch salt 
% cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

8 eggs essence 

This is a Torte from Hungary and can have anything from 5 
to 8 layers. 

Separate the eggs. Beat the egg-yolks and sugar until hght 
and creamy. Beat the whites to a Ught froth, but not too stiff. 
Sieve the flour 2 or 3 times. Fold the whites into the egg- 
and-sugar mixture. Gradually add the flour in small quantities. 
Stir gently after each addition. Butter five or six sandwich-tins 
and dust vsith flour. Divide the mixture between them and bake 
in a moderate oven for 10 or 15 minutes, or until the tops are 
golden brown. Allow to cool ready for the filling — see chocolate 
filling (page 234). Cover the filling with burnt sugar idng (page 
236). 

SNOW TORTE 

Schneetorte 

1 14 cups caster sugar 6 large egg whites 

2 tablespoons com- ^^ cup fine white 

flour flour 

1 teaspoon vanilla % cup melted 

essence butter 

Sieve the corn-flour, sugar, and floiur together. Beat egg-whites 
to a light firoth, not too stijff. Add vanilla essence. Fold into the 
flour mixture. When well mixed stir in the melted butter. Mix 
again, until the whole is smooth and creamy. 

Grease a cake-tin and dust with fine dry breadcrumbs. Pour the 
mixture in and bake in a moderate oven for about 1 hour. 

When cake has cooled, coat with lemon icing and decorate with 
candied firuits. 

Lemon Icing: 

% cup icing sugar grated rind of ^2 

1 tablespoon lemon lemon 

juice 1 tablespoon water 

Add all together and stir until quite smooth. If necessary add more 
water. Spread on the cake as soon as prepared. 

[ 225 ] 



POPPY-SEED TORTE 

Mohntorte 

2 cups sugar grated rind of V2 

% cup raisins lemon 

y2 teaspoon ground 1 teaspoon ground 

cloves cinnamon 

^ cup nun y^ cup poppy seeds 

10 eggs 

Plirnip the raisins in the rum. Drain well. Separate the egg yolks 
and whites. Grind the poppy seeds as finely as possible. (This can 
be done with a pestle and mortar if no grinding machine is avail- 
able). 

Beat the egg yolks and sugar until creamy. Add the raisins, 
cinnamon, cloves, lemon rind and the poppy seed. Mix well. 
Fold in the egg whites, beaten to a light but not too stiff froth. 
Grease two 9-inch cake-tins and sprinkle with fine breadcrumbs. 
Divide the mixture in two and bake in a moderate oven for about 
1 hour. Use tins with separate bottoms. 

Remove from tins and allow to cool. Brush rum over the top 
of the bottom layer, and the bottom of the top layer. Place one 
on top of the other. Pile whipped cream on top of the Torte. 
(Whipped cream can also be spread between the layers if hked.) 



MADEIRA CAKE 

Sandtorte 

1 V2 cups butter 2 teaspoons baking 
1 14 cups sugar powder 

2^ cups flour icing sugar 

or corn-flour apricot jam 

8 eggs, separated juice and grated rind 
2 tablespoons rum of ^ lemon 

or brandy 1 egg white 
chopped nuts 

Cream the butter. Add the sugar and egg yolks alternately. Mix 
very lightly and well. Sieve the flour and baking powder and 
a pinch of salt. Add to the butter mixture, with the lemon juice 
and rum. Stir in the grated rind. Have the egg whites beaten 
fairly stiffly. Now fold into the mixture. Pour into a round 9- 
inch cake tin, well buttered and dusted with flour. 

[ 226 ] 



I 



Bake for 1 hour in a moderate oven. 

Remove from the tin and allow to cool. A loose-bottomed tin 
should be used, as the cake can be easily removed. Brush the top 
with warmed apricot jam. 

Beat the one egg white very stiffly. Cover the jam with this. 
Sprinkle with icing sugar and chopped nuts. Put in a cool oven 
for 20 minutes. Serve with whipped cream. 



CHOCOLATE TORTE 

Schokoladentorte 

6 eggs % cup ground 
14 cup butter ahnonds 

% cup cooking ^A cup sugar 
chocolate 

Cream the butter and sugar together until light. Separate the 
yolks and whites of 5 of the eggs. Beat the egg yolks and 1 
whole egg together. Stir into the butter and cream mixture. Melt 
chocolate, add the almonds. Mix and stir into the mixture. Beat 
the egg whites until stiff but not too stiff. Fold into the mixture 
as it is now. Pour the mixture into a greased, deep flan-tin and 
bake in a moderate oven for 1 hour. 

Let cool and brush the top with jam sauce, then ice with 
chocolate icing. 

Jam Sauce: 

Any jam. Warm the jam. Add a Uttle wine. Allow to cool and 
brush the top of the cake. 

Chocolate Icing: 

y^ cup cooking 4 tablespoons icing 

chocolate sugar 

6 tablespoons water 

Melt the chocolate in the water. Add the sugar and cook slowly 
for about 10 minutes. To test it, put a pair of clean scissors in and 
open the blades. If it spins a thread between the two, then it is 
ready. Let it cool, but keep stirring. Spread at once on the cake 
and smooth with a palette knife. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

[ 227 ] 



BISCUIT TORTE 

Not a biscuit mixture as we know it, but a light cake mixture which 
can be used for any Torte base, but in this instance it is cut into 
small fancy shapes. 

12 eggs, separated juice and grated rind 

1 cup fine sugar of lemon 

any jam 2 cups flour 

Beat the sugar and egg yolks until a Hght cream. Add the juice 
and grated rind of lemon. Add the flour little by little, stirring 
each time. Lastly fold in the egg whites beaten to a stiff froth. 
Butter a large square tin and dust with fine white breadcrumbs. 
Bake in a moderate oven for about 1 hour. 
When cool cover with chocolate firosting. 

Chocolate Frosting: 

Yi cup cooking 4 tablespoons icing 

chocolate sugar 

6 tablespoons water 

Melt the chocolate in the water. Add the sugar and cook slowly 
for about 10 minutes. If it spins a thread, it is ready for use. Let 
it cool but keep stirring. Spread at once on the top of the Tone. 
When cold this Torte can be cut into small fancy shapes. Each 
one may be spUt in two and jam-spread, sandwich fashion. The top 
can be decorated if preferred. 



[ 228 ]- 



CHERRY TORTE 

Kirschtorte 

1 cup butter 214 cups flour 
4 tablespoons 2 egg yolks 

light cream pinch salt 

2 or 3 drops lemon 1 egg beaten with 

juice water 

3 cups stoned 

cherries 

Put flour into a bowl and cut the butter into it with a knife. Mix 
the lemon juice with the cream, to sour it. Add the egg yolks and 
salt to the flour mixttire. Stir, and finally add the sour cream until 
you have a soft and rather crumbly dough. Wrap m a cloth and 
put in the refrigerator for about 10 minutes. Roll out this now 
cold dough to about % of an inch thick. Place in a large cake-tm, 
at least 9 inches. Brush with beaten egg and sprinkle with fine 
white breadcrumbs. Place in the refirigerator for a few more 
minutes. Remove, and add the cherries. Bake in a moderate oven 
for about 30 minutes. The cake is only partly baked now. While 
it is in the oven prepare the filling. 

FiUing: 

2 eggs, separated 2 tablespoons sugar 

1/2 tablespoon flour pinch of ground 
5 tablespoons light cinnamon 

cream juice of 1/2 lemon 

Blend the flour with 1 tablespoon of the cream, until quite smooth. 
Add the egg yolks and sugar and beat well. Add cmnamon and 
lemon juice and again beat weU to make sure that the sugar is 
dissolved. Now add the remaining 4 tablespoons of the sour 
cream and mix thoroughly. Have the egg whites beaten to a h^t 
but not too stiff froth. Fold into the mixttire last of aU. 1 ake tne 
cake firom the oven and pour this mixture over it. Return to the 
oven and bake for 45 minutes at the same temperature. 
Serve with whipped cream. 



- — [ 229 ]- 



MERINGUE TORTE 

Spanische Windtorte 

8 egg whites 2 cups thick cream 

214 cups fine caster Chopped glace cher- 

^"Sar ries and angelica 

Y2 teaspoonful vanilla 

essence 

This is a Torte entirely made of meringue mixture in four layers 
It is difficuh to make but well worth the effort. The base is ali 
menngue. The next two layers are rings of meringue the same 
size laid on top of the base. The last is a lattice work ring covering 
the whole torte and its contents. To prepare for this, put a cake 
tm on a sheet of greaseproof paper. Draw round and cut out 4 
circles. Leave the first one blank. Draw a fine inside the rim 
about 11/2 inches on the second and third circles. On the fourth 
draw a lattice design. This is for the hd. Turn the circles upside 
down so that the pencil marks will not touch the cake. When you 
are more experienced it will not be necessary to draw these fines 
at all. 

Whip the egg whites very stiffly. Fold the sugar into this 
When the mixture is stiff drop the vanilla essence in and mix 
weU. Spread over the bottom circle about Y> an inch high. Put 
the remainder into a forcing bag. Pipe the m"eringue on the next 
two circles m the outer ring. Pipe the remainder in the lattice 
pattern on the top one. 

Bake at once in a cool oven for 1 hour. Leave in the oven all 
night before removing. 

Filling 

Whip the cream very stiffly and add the chopped cherries and 
angelica. Place the two rings on top of the base. PUe the whipped 
cream and fruit in the centre and place the lattice fid on top. 



-[ 230 ]- 



PUNCH TORTE 

Punschtorte 

2 cups fine white self- 1 1/4 cups sugar 

raising flour juice and grated rind 

9 eggs of 1 lemon 

Separate the yolks and whites of 7 eggs. Beat the 7 egg yolks and 
the remaining 2 eggs together imtil they are creamy. Add the sugar 
gradually. Beat again until it is very Ught and creamy. Add the 
lemon rind and juice. Fold in the flour, a httle at a time. Beat the 
egg whites very stiffly. Fold into the mixture. Grease and flour 
2 cake-tins fairly deep. Divide the batter between the two. 
Bake in a moderate oven for 30 to 35 minutes. 

Syrup for flavouring: 

Yz cup water 3 tablespoons rum 

1 tablespoon sugar 

Mix these ingredients together and moisten both pieces of cake, 
when cool. Spread both layers with raspberry or strawberry jam. 
Turn the two jam sides together and glaze with rum frosting 
(page 236). 



-[ 231 ] 



FONDANT ICING 

2 cups fine white pinch cream 

sugar of tartar 

% cup water 

Put the sugar and water into the top part of a double saucepan. 
Melt gently but do not overheat. Add the cream of tartar. When 
the icing sticks to the back of a spoon it is ready. If it gets too 
thick add a few drops more water or lemon juice. As soon as the 
icing is the right consistency spread it on top of the cake. 



ORANGE BUTTER 

2 cups thick cream 2 tablespoons water 

1 cup icing sugar grated rind of 

4 egg yolks 1 orange 

Melt the sugar on a gentle heat mixed with the water until it is 
quite clear. Cool and beat in the egg yolks and the grated orange 
rind. Whip the cream stiffly and fold into the mixture. It is now 
ready for use. 



CHESTNUT FILLING 

2 cups chestnuts, 1 cup milk 

mashed and sieved ^ cup butter 

5 eggs separated 14 cup sugar 

After the chestnuts have been boiled soft and peeled, before 
mashing, cover with the cup of milk and cook slowly until they 
are very soft. They will then sieve easily. Cream the butter, add 
the sugar and egg yolks alternately. Beat well. Beat the whites 
very stiffly. Add the chestnut mixture to the egg yolk mixture 
and lastly fold in the whites. It is now ready to use as direaed. 



[ 232 ] 



CHEESE FILLING 

6 eggs, separated 2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups cream cheese 2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

Beat the cheese until soft. Work the flour into it. Warm the 
butter and beat in alternately with the milk. Beat in the egg yolks 
and the sugar. When this is all smooth and creamy, fold m the 
stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour the mixture into the lined tin, 
or as directed. 



MOCHA CREAM 

% cup sugar Vz cup strong black 

1/2 cup butter Mocha coffee 

3 egg yolks (coffee cup size) 

Beat the egg yolks with the sugar. Add the coffee and stir well. 
Put in a double boiler and cook untU the mixture is like a creamy 

custard. Allow to cool. 

Beat the butter to a cream. Mix this in with the custard. Spread 
the cream on top of the lower half of the Torte. Place the other 
half on top. Cover the top and sides with the remamder. 

If you can get Uttle imitation coffee beans in chocolate or sweets, 
they make a nice decoration. 



-[ 233 ]- 



CHOCOLATE FILLING 

1 cup grated i/^ cup butter 

chcx:olate pinch of ground 

% cup icing sugar cinnamon 

Warm the butter (do not melt). Beat the butter, chocolate, icing 
sugar and cinnamon until creamy. 

Spread on top of the layers of cake but not on the top one. 
Cover the top with burnt sugar icing (page 236). 



CHOCOLATE ICING OR FROSTING 

/4 cup cooking 4 tablespoons icing 

chocolate ' sugar 

6 tablespoons water 

Melt the chocolate in water in a gentle heat. Add the sugar and 
cook slowly for about 10 minutes. To test it, put a clean pair of 
scissors in and open the blades. If it spins a thread between the 
two, it is ready. Let it cool slightly, stirring the while. Spread 
mimediately over the cake and smooth with a palette knife. The 
cake can be placed in a cool oven which has had the heat turned 
off. This will help to dry the frosting quickly. 
Serve with whipped cream. 



[ 234 ]- 



TRANSPARENT GLAZE 

2 tablespoons com- 2 or 3 tablespoons 

flour sugar 

2 cups any fruit juice 

Blend the cornflour with a little of the fruit juice. Add the sugar 
and mix well. Add the remainder of the fruit juice. Boil all 
together until it becomes thick and clear. Spread this on top of the 
fruit and leave to set firm. 

Serve with whipped cream, either piled on top or placed in 
a separate bowl. 



BUTTER ICING 

1 cup icing sugar 4 egg yolks 

2 tablespoons water 1 ^ cups thick cream 
1 drop almond 

essence 

Melt the sugar in the water until quite clear. Do not overheat. 
When cool, beat in the egg yolks and the almond essence. Whip 
the cream and fold lastly into the mixtiure. It is now ready for use 
and should be of the consistency of butter. 



NUT ICING 

% cup icing sugar 5 egg whites 

2 tablespoons grated 
nuts 

Beat the egg whites to a stiff froth. Then beat the sugar lightly 
in and add the grated nuts. Spread on top of the Torte. Dust with 
sifted icing sugar, and place in a cool oven. This will set the icing. 
Remove from the oven and allow to get quite cool before turning 
out. 



-[ 235 ] 



LEMON ICING 



l^cups icing sugar 
1 V2 tablespoons water 



2 tablespoons lemon 

juice 
grated rind of 1 lemon 



Mix all together with a palette knife until it is quite smooth. 
Spread with the same knife. 



RUM FROSTING 

1 tablespoon water 



1 cup icing sugar 
1 Yz tablespoons rum 



Dissolve the sugar and water over a gentle heat. Add the rum, 
drop by drop. Keep stirring, until the mixture coats the spoon. 
Allow to cool, then use immediately as directed. 



BURNT SUGAR ICING 

Gebrannter Zucker 



Yi cup white sugar 



2 tablespoons water 



Cook the sugar and water in a saucepan until it turns a golden 
brown. While still warm brush over the cake top, or use as 
directed. 



-[ 236 ]- 



Beverages 

Coffee, of course, is Vienna's great contribution to the 
world's beverages. She has made it her own. But it was 
the Turks who gave the Viennese their first taste for it. 
They left large bags of it behind after a battle! Viennese coflfee 
is infinitely varied — with every kind of cream in every sort of 
proportion, with chocolate, with Uqueur. ^ r u 

Austrian wines are deUcious, but there are not enough of them 
to export. In Vienna, the ancient city vineyards only supphed 
the wine-loving inhabitants. Many wines from other countnes 
were brought into Vienna from other countries. If you want 
suitable wines to go with Austrian food, use Hungarian ones, or 
wines from the Moselle, the Rhineland, or France. 

The Punches and bowles are traditional Austrian party-tare, 
especially the fruit punches, made of seasonal fruit, and the hot 
punches given to guests on arrival and departure m wmter. 

The Austrians Uked their drinks cold, but never put ice m them. 



[ 237 ] 



WHIPPED CREAM COFFEE 

Kaffee mit Schlagobers 

strong black coffee cream 

sugar 

Make some good strong coflFee. Whip the cream, aUowing a good 
tablespoon for each cup. Sweeten the cream with a httle sugar 
Pour the hot black coffee into cups or glasses. Hold a teaspoon 
face downward over each cup and add the cream, slowly pouring 
It over the back of the spoon. In this way the cream wiU remain 
cold and frothy on top of the coffee. If you wish to add sugar, 
stir It in before adding the cream. 



TURKISH COFFEE 

Turkischer Kaffee 

^ FOR 4 SMALL CUPS (DEMITASSE) 

1 Yz cups water 6-8 lumps sugar 

4 teaspoons powdered 
coffee 

In the absence of a real Turkish coffee-pot this coffee can be made 
m a saucepan. Put the water in a saucepan and bring it to the boil. 
Add the sugar and aUow it to dissolve. Now put in the powdered 
coffee, and stir. Bring to the boil, taking care to remove it from 
the heat the moment the coffee reaches boihng-point. Allow it to 
cool for a few seconds and repeat, again removing it when boihng- 
pomt IS reached. Yet again bring it to boiUng-point, and this time 
add a teaspoon of cold water. Allow it to settle for 3 minutes, 
and serve. 



KIRSCHWASSER COFFEE 

Kaffee mit Kirsch 

This coffee is made simply by adding a shot (according to taste) 
of Kirsch, a brandy distilled from cherries, to a cup of hot black 
coffee. Kirsch is the speciality of Switzerland, and also of Alsace 
and the Black Forest. 

— -[ 238 ] 



WHIPPED CREAM CHOCOLATE 

Kakao mit Schlagohers 

4 tablespoons 1 pint milk 

chocolate powder 3 tablespoons sugar 

% cup cream 

Boil the milk and add it gradually to the chocolate powder and 
the 2 teaspoons sugar. Whip the cream until it is stiff with 
1 teaspoon sugar. Put the hot chocolate into cups and serve 
each cup with a large blob of cream on top. 



ORANGE SHERBET 

Orangensc}ierbett 

4 SERVINGS 

4 oranges ^ teaspoon lemon 

^ cup water extract 

Yi cup sugar 

Peel 2 oranges, taking care to remove all the white inner skin. 
Split them into sections and remove the seeds. Sweeten with 
sugar to taste. Squeeze the juice from the remaining oranges and 
mix into it the Y^ cup of sugar. Heat and stir until the sugar is 
dissolved. Add water and lemon extract and allow to cool. Put 
a couple of orange sections in a glass, add 2 teaspoons orange 
syrup, ice cubes, and fill the glass with soda water. 



STRAWBERRY BOWLE 

Erdbeerbowie 

4 SERVINGS 

1 packet frozen 2 bottles of Rhine 

strawberries wine 

1/3 cup of sugar ^ bottle champagne 
1 orange 

Place the fruit in a bowl with the orange juice and sUvers of orange 
peel added. Sprinkle with sugar and stir together. Pour on the 
wine and place in the refrigerator, or on ice, for at least 1 hour. 
Immediately before serving add the champagne. 

[ 239 ] 



ICED PEACH PUNCH 

Pfirsichbowle 

4 SERVINGS 

6 ripe peaches 1 cup sugar 

2 bottles Rhine wine ^ bottle champagne 

Put the peeled and sliced peaches in a bowl, and sprinkle them 
with sugar. Pour over them a bottle of Rhine wine and allow to 
stand for two hours in the refrigerator. Immediately before 
serving add the rest of the Rhine wine and the champagne. Soda 
water can be substituted for the champagne, and any white wine 
can be used if necessary. 



ICED PEACH PUNCH 

Pfirsichbowle 

ANOTHER METHOD 
4 SERVINGS 

6 ripe peaches 1 cup sugar 

1 bottle Rhine wine 1 botde red wine 

Va bottle champagne 

This is made similarly to the previous recipe, with the sole 
difference that the red wine is used instead of all white. 



VANILLA PUNCH 

Punsch mit Vanillengeschmack 

4 SERVINGS 

1 cup sugar % vanilla pod 

3 pints water 2 oranges 

^ lemon % cup tea 
% cup rum 

Chop vanilla pod into small pieces. Add it with the sugar to the 
water, and cook over a low heat for 30 minutes. Strain off the 
liquid and add to it the tea and the juices of the oranges and lemon. 
Heat once more, remove when hot and add the rum. Serve 
immediately. 

[ 240 ] 



A 



NECTAR 

Nektar 

4 SERVINGS 

5 ripe eating apples 1 lemon 

1 bottle Rhine wine % bottle Champagne 

14 cup sugar 

Peel the apples, core them, and slice them thinly. Place them 
in a dish and add thin shvers of the lemon peel and the strained 
juice of the lemons. Sprinkle the sugar over this and pour in half 
a bottle of wine. Allow to stand for 12 hours. Add the rest 
of the wine, and just before serving pour in the champagne. Soda 
water may be used instead of champagne and where necessary 
any dry white wine can be substituted for the Rhine wine. 



GROG 

4 SERVINGS 

1 pint water . Y2 cup sugar 

14 cup rum 

Bring the water to the boil. Put in the sugar and stir until dissolved. 
Remove from the heat and add the rum. Serve while hot. 



ORANGE AND TEA PUNCH 

14 lb. sugar % lemon 

2 oranges 1 cup rum 

1 pint hot tea 

Press the juice from the oranges and lemon and put into a bowl 
with the sugar and slivers of lemon peel. Allow to stand for 1 
hour. Pour on the hot strained tea and heat the whole mixture. 
Add the rum before serving. 



[ 241 ] 



CARDINAL'S CORDIAL 

Kardinal 

1 bottle sweet white 14 lb. lump sugar 

wine 1 orange 

orange skin ice 
1 cup pineapple juice 

Rub the lump sugar well with orange skin and place in a punch 
bowl with the juice of 1 orange, 1 cup pineapple juice and the 
white wine. When the sugar has dissolved serve very cold with 
ice. Half a bottle of white wine and half a bottle of champagne 
may be used instead of 1 bottle of white wine. 



MILK WITH ALMONDS 

Mandelmilch 

1 cup chopped 3 cups water 

almonds 1 tablespoon orange 

1 tablespoon sugar juice 

Stir the chopped almonds into the water until the liquid becomes 
milky white. Strain the liquid through a cheese cloth. Allow the 
chopped almonds to dry for short time. Now pound them to 
a powder. Put this, together with the sugar and orange juice, into 
the liquid. Serve cold. 



[ 242 ] 



Index of Recipes 



Aal mit Wein, 79 

Almond Filling, 214 

Almond Pancakes, I45 

Almond Pudding, 170 

Almond Soup, 37 

Alte Huhner in Sauce, 97 

Anchovy Butter, 163 

Anchovy Sauce, 150 

Anchovy Shells, 12 

Apfel auf polnische Art, 169 

Apfelkraut aus Sauerkraut, 63 

Apfehtrudel, 202 

Apfehuppe, 38 

Apfeltorte, 219 

Apostelkuchen, 188 

Apple Soup, Hot, 38 

Apple Strudel, 202 

Apple Torte, 219 

Apples, PoUsh, 169 

Apricot Soup, 37 

Artichokes, Stuffed, 64 

Artischocken, faschierte, 64 

Asparagus Pancake, 144 

Asparagus with Breadcrumbs, 52 

Austern, gebratene, 82 

Austrian Eggs, 1 39 

Austrian Pancake, 147 

Backhuhn, Wiener, 92 
Bacon Dumplings, 42 
Bacon Strudel, 204 
Baked Eggs with Ham, I39 
Baked Ham, 135 
Baked Perch, 74 
Baked Sole, 74 
Barsch, gebackener, 74 
Beans, Green, Sweet-Sovir, 69 
Beans, Green, with Fennel, 56 
Bechamel Sauce, 150 
! Beef, Boiled, 121 

Beef, Roast Fillet of, Esterhazy, 120 
Beef Soup, Viennese, 33 



Beef, Tyrolean, 121 

Beef, Viennese Stewed, 122 

Beefsteaks, Huntsman's, 127 

Beer Soup, 2i 

Beggarman's Pudding, Viennese, 

167 
Beggarman's Soup, 22 
Belegte Brotchen, 17 
Bettelmann, 167 
Bettelmanns-Suppe, 22 
Bierkase, 13 
Biersuppe, 21 
Bilberry Fritters, 174 
Bischofbrot, 206 
Biscuit Pastry, 198 
Biscuit Torte, 228 
Biscuits, Nut, 209 
Biscuits, Viennese, 208 
Bishop's Bread, 206 
Biskuits, Wiener, 208 
Biskuitteig, 198 
Black Butter, 164 
Blatteln mit Kraut, 60 
Blauer Kohl, 62 
Blaugesottene Forellen, 75 
Blue Trout, 75 
Bohemian Dumplings, 42 
Bohemian Eggs, 12 
Bohemian Peas, 52 
Bohemian Pie, 13 
Bohmische Dalken, 192 
Bohmische Erbsen, 52 
Bohmische Knodel, 42 
Bohnen, sUfi-saure, grune, 69 
Boiled Beef, 121 
Boiled Leg of Pork, 133 
Bowie, Strawberry, 239 
Braised Oxtail, 126 
Braten, faschierter, 122 
Bratensauce, 156 
Braune Kraftsuppe, 23 
Bread, Bishop's, 206 



[ 245 ]- 



Bread, Brown, 183 
Bread, Cheese, 182 
Bread Dumplings, 43 
Bread, Honey, 182 
Bread, Milk, 181 
Bread, Ordinary, 178 
Bread, Plaited, 180 
Bread, Potato, 179 
Bread Soup with Hard-boiled Eggs, 
22 

Bread-and-Butter Pudding, Tyro- 
lean, 166 

Breast of Lamb in Marjoram Sauce, 
131 

Brennsuppe mit Wein, Tiroler, 28 

Brennsuppe, sparsame, 27 

Brioches, 188 

Brdtchen, belegte, 17 

Brotsuppe mit Eiern, 22 

Brown Bread, 183 

Brown Linzer Torte, 217 

Brown Meat Soup, 23 

Brunnenkressensauce, 1 59 

Buchteln, 191 

Bucklinge Herrings with Egg, 75 

BUcklinge mit Ei, 75 

Burgunder Koch, iji 

Burnt Sugar Icing, 236 

Butter DumpUngs, 43 

Butter Icing, 235 
Butter Sauce, 151 
Butter Sauce with Capers, 151 
Butter Torte, 220 
Buttermehlnockerln, 43 
Butter sauce mit Kapem, 151 
Butterteig, 196 
Butterteig mit Germ, 197 
Butterteig, schneller, 198 
Butterteigstangeln, 200 

Cabbage, Red, with Chestnuts, 62 
Cabbage Salad, 53 



Cabbage Soup, Viennese, 34 

Cabbage, Stuflfed, 65 

Cabbage, Viennese, 72 

Cabbage with Sour Cream and Ca- 
raway Seeds, 53 

Cake, Layer, 225 

Cake, Streusel, 194 

Calves' Brains, 119 

Caraway Goulash, 125 

Caraway Soup, 23 

Cardinal's Cordial, 242 

Carp with Horseradish, 76 

Carp with Paprika Sauce, 76 

Carrots with Caraway Seeds, 54 

Casserole of Chicken, 94 

Casseroled Eggs, 140 

Cauliflower Soup, 24 

Cauliflower, Viennese, 71 

Cheese Bread, 182 

Cheese Filling, 233 

Cheese Souffle, 143 

Cheese Spread, 13 

Cheese Torte, 222 

Cherry Soup, Cold, South German 

Style, 38 
Cherry Strudel, 202 
Cherry Torte, 229 
Chestnut Filling, 232 
Chestnut Souffle, 148 
Chestnut Torte, 221 
Chestnut Torte, Radetzky, 222 
Chicken and Veal Broth, 24 
Chicken, Casserole of, 94 
Chicken, Fried, 92 
Chicken Giblet Soup with Liver 

Dumplings, 25 
Chicken in Butter Sauce, 98 
Chicken in Wine Pastry, 98 
Chicken, Old, in Sauce, 97 
Chicken Pancakes, 14 
Chicken Paprika, 92 
Chicken Ragout, 93 



[ 246 ]- 



Chickenj Roast Stuffed, 95 
Chicken, Sacher, 96 
Chicken Stew, Hungarian, 96 
Chicken, Stuffed, 94 
Chicken with Green Sauce, 99 
Chocolate FiUing, 234 
Chocolate Frosting, 234 
Chocolate Icing, 234 
Chocolate Pudding, Hot, 168 
Chocolate SUces, 208 
Chocolate Strudel, 204 
Chocolate Torte, 227 
Chocolate, Whipped Cream, 239 
Clear Soup, Quick, 30 
Clear Soup with Sliced Pancakes, 

Tyrolean, 32 
Cod with Pepper, 77 
Coffee Cookies, 210 
Coffee Cream, 213 
Coffee Cream Cake, 223 
Coffee Cream Jelly, 173 
Coffee, Kirschwasser, 238 
Coffee, Turkish, 238 
Coffee, Whipped Cream, 238 
Cold Cherry Soup, South German 

Style, 38 
Cookies, Coffee, 210 
Cookies, Tea, 209 
Crayfish Butter, 164 
Cra>'fish3 Creamed, 78 
Cream Cheese Crescents, 188 
Cream Cheese DumpUngs, 44 
Cream Cheese Strudel, 203 
Cream Pea Soup, 26 
Cream Strudel, 203 
Creamed Crayfish, 78 
Creamed Herrings with Anchovies, 

78 

Creamed Liver Soup, Viennese, 34 

Crescent Rolls, 186 

Crescent Rolls with Various Fill- 
ings, 187 



Crescents, Cream Cheese, 188 
Croquettes, Egg, 142, 143 
Csipetke, 47 
Cucumber and Horseradish Salad, 

55 
Cucvimber Soup, 27 
Cucumber, Stewed, 64 
Cucumbers, Stuffed, 66 

Dalken, bdhmische, 192 
Dandelion Leaves in Sour Cream, 

55 
Date Torte with Nuts, 223 
Datteltorte mit Nussen, 223 
Dill Sauce, 151 
Doboschtorte, 225 
Dough, Farferl, 40 
Dough, Fine Noodle, 40 
Dough for Pockets, 41 
Dough, Plain Noodle, 40 
Dough, Strudel, 201 
Dough, Yeast, 189 
Doughnuts, 212 
Duck, Marinated, loi 
Duck, Roast, 99, 100 
Duck, Stuffed, 102 
Duckling, Roast, 100 
DumpUngs, Bacon, 42 
Diamplings, Bohemian, 42 
Dumplings, Bread, 43 
Dumplings, Butter, 43 
DumpUngs, Cream Cheese, 44 
Dumplings, Flour, 44 
Dumplings, Kidney, 45 
DvimpUngs, Liver, 45 
Dumplings, Potato, 46 
Dumplings, Snow, 46 
DimipUngs, Tyrolean, 47 
DvmipUngs, Very SmaU, 47 

Eels in Wine, 79 

Egg Batter Pancake, 1455 146 



[ 247 ]- 



Egg Batter with Cream, 146 

Egg Croquettes, 142, 143 

Eggs, Austrian, 139 

Eggs, Baked with Ham, 139 

Eggs, Bohemian, 12 

Eggs, Casseroled, 140 

Eggs, Rolled, 138 

Eggs, Stuffed, with Crayfish Butter, 

141 
Eggs Tyrolean Style, 141 
Eggs with Black Butter, 140 
Eier auf Kasserole, 140 
Eier mit Krebsbtitter, 141 
Eier mit schwarzer Butter, 140 
Eier Omelette, 138 
Eier, osterreichische, 139 
Eierkroketten, 142, 143 
Eierkuchen mit Rahm, 146 
Eierkuchen mit Schinken, 139 
Eierspeise, gerollte, 138 
Eierspeise, Tiroler, 141 
Einfache Fleischbruhe, 20 
Einfache gefullte Paradiesdpfel, 67 
Emperor's Pancake, 142 
Emperor's Pudding, 170 
Entchen, gebratenes, 100 
Ente, faschierte, 102 
Ente, gebratene, 99, 100 
Erbsen, bohmische, 52 
Erbsensuppe mit Rahm, 26 
Erbsensuppe mit Schweinefleisch, 36 
Erddpfelnudeln, 58, 69 
Erddpfelbrot, 179 
Erdbeerbowle, 239 
Erdbeerkoch, geschdumtes, 172 
Essigkren, 163 
Esterhazy-Rostbraten, 120 

Fairy Ycast-Cakcs, 193 
Farferl Dough, 40 
Farferlteig, 40 
Fasan, gebratener, 108 



Paschierte Artischocken, 64 

Faschierte Ente, 102 

Faschierte Gurke, 66 

Faschierter Braten, 122 

Faschierter Schweinschlegel, 134 

Feiner Gugelhupf, 211 

Feirur Nudelteig, 40 

Filets, Lungenbraten-, 119 

Fillet of Beef Esterhazy, Roast, 120 

Fillet Steak Larded, 119 

Fisch, gespickter, 84 

Fischgulasch, 80 

HjcA mi'r /ein^n Krdutem, 80 

Fi5c/i mif Kapemsauce, 81 

Fischsauce mit Rahm, 152 

Fischsuppe, 21 

Fish, Larded, 84 

Fish Sauce, Creamy, 152 

Fish Soup Stock, 21 

Fish Stew, 80 

Fish with Caper Sauce, 81 

Fish with Chopped Herbs, 80 

Fisolen Grune, 56 

Fladen, 200 

Flan, Fruit, 192 

Fleisch-Tascherln, 41 

Fleischsuppe, schnelle, 30 

Florentine Cream, 213 
Florentine Tartlets, 207 
Florentiner Rahm, 213 
Florentiner Torteletten, 207 
Flounder Steak with Anchovy 

Sauce, 81 
Flour Dumplings, 44 
Fondant Icing, 232 
Forellen, blaugesottem, 75 
Forellen in Olgebraten, 88 
Forellen mit Paradiesdpfeln, 87 
Forellen, Tiroler, 89 
French Pastry, 200 
Fricandeau, 116 
Fridatten, 50, 172 



[ 248 ] 



Fried Chicken, 92 
Fried Mackerel, 82 
Fried Oysters, 82 
Fried Straws, 205 
Fridattensuppey Tiroler, 32 
Fritters, Bilberry, 174 
Frosting, Chocolate, 234 
Frosting, Rum, 236 
Fruchttorte, 221 
Frugal Peasant Soup, 27 
FrQhlingskdse, 18 
FrUhlingssuppe, 36 
Fruit Flan, 192 
Fruit Loaf, 207 
Fruit Pudding, 171 
Fruit Torte, 221 

GanSjgebratene, 102 
Gdnseleber, 14 
Garniertes Kraut, 57 
Gebackene Kartoffeln, 56 
Gebackene Paradiesapfel, 70 
Gebackene Pilze, 52 
Gebackene Seezunge, 74 
Gebackener Barsch, 74 
Gebackener Schinken, 135 
Gebackenes Stroh, 205 
Gebrannter Zucker, 236 
Gebratene Austern, 82 
Gebratene Ente, 99, 100 
Gebratene Gans, 102 
Gebratene Makrelen, 82 
Gebratene Schnepfe, 109 
Gebratene Tauben, 106, 107 
Gebratener Fasan, 108 
Gebratener Schopsenrucken, 128 
Gebratener Truthahn, 104 
Gebratenes Entchen, 100 
Gebratenes Rebhuhn, 109 
Geddmpfter Hase, no 
Gedunstete Gurke, 64 
GedUnstete Huhner, 94 



Gedtinsteter Ochsenschlepp, 126 
Gediinstetes Lammfleisch, 128 
GeflUgelragoiit, 93 
Gefrorener sourer Rohm, 173 
GefUllte Melonen mit Rahm und Erd- 

beeren, 166 
GefQllte Paprika, 136 
Gefullter Kalbsbraten, 115 
GefuUter SchopsenrQcken, 130 
Gefalltes Huhn, 94, 95 
Gekochter Schweinschlegel, 133 
Gekochtes Schdpsenfleisch, 1 30 
Germstrudel, luf tiger, 193 
Germteig, 189 
Gerollte Eierspeise, 138 
Geschdumtes Erdbeerkoch, 172 
Gesottenes Rindfleisch, 121 
Gespickter Fisch, 84 
Gespickter Kalbschlegel, 118 
Gevnckelter Nierenbraten, 117 
Gewohnlicher Nudelteig, 40 
Giblet and Cooked Poultry Ragout, 

93 
Goose Livers, 14 
Goose, Roast, 102 
Goose Stuffing, 103, 104 
Goulash, Caraway, 125 
Goulash, Hungarian, 123 
Goulash Soup, 28 
Goulash, Veal, 117 
Gravy Sauce, Rich, 156 
Green Beans, Sweet-Sour, 69 
Green Beans with Fennel, 56 
Green Mayonnaise, 161 
Green Peppers, Stuffed, 66, 136 
Green Sauce, 152 
Grog, 241 

Grune Bohnen, sufi-saure, 69 
Grune Fisolen, 56 
Griine Mayonnaise, 161 
Griine Sauce, 152 
Gugelhupf, 211 



[ 249 ]- 



Gugelhupf,feiner, 211 
Gugelhupf, Rich, 21 1 
Gugelhupf, Vienna, 210 
Gugelhupf, Wiener, 210 
Guineafowl, 108 
Gulasch, Fisch-, 80 
Gulasch, Kalbs-, 117 
Gulaschsuppe, 28 
Gulasch, ungarisches, 123 
Gurke, faschierte, 66 
Gurke, gediinstete, 64 
Gurkensalat nth Kren, 55 
Gurkensuppe, 27 

Haddock with Paprika, 83 
Ham and Melon Hors-d'Oeuvre, 15 
Ham, Baked, 135 
Ham Patches, 48 
Ham Slices, 15 
Hamburgers, Viennese, 126 
Hare, Roast, no 
Hase, geddmpfter, no 
Hausbrot, 178, 183 
Hausente ah Wildente, loi 
Heidelbeertascherln, 174 
Hdjier Schokoladenpudding, 168 
Heringe in Ol gebraten, 83 
Heringe in Rahmsauce, 78 
Heringssalat, 16 
Herring Salad, 16 
Herrings, Biicklingc, with Egg, 75 
Herrings, Creamed, with Ancho- 
vies, 78 
Herrings in Oil, 83 
Hollandaise Sauce, 153 
Holldndische Sauce, 153 
Honey Bread, 182 
Honey Cakes, 206 
Honigbrot, 182 
Horseradish Relish, 163 
Horseradish Sauce, 153 
Horseradish Soup, Tyrolean, 32 



Hot Apple Soup, 38 
Hot Chocolate Pudding, 168 
Huhn, Paprika-, 92 
Hahner, gediinstete, 94 
Huhn, gefalltes, 94, 95 
Huhn, Sacher-, 96 
Hahner, alte, in Sauce, 97 
HUhner in Weinteig, 98 
Huhner mit Buttersauce, 98 
Hiihner mit grUner Sauce, 99 
Huhnerragout, 93 
Huhnerpalatschinken, 14 
Hummer mit kalter Sauce, 84 
Hungarian Chicken Stew, 96 
Hungarian Goulash, 123 
Hungarian Marrow, 57 
Huntsman's Beefsteaks, 127 

Iced Peach Punch, 240 
Icing, Burnt Sugar, 236 
Icing, Butter, 235 
Icing, Chocolate, 234 
Icing, Fondant, 232 
Icing, Lemon, 236 
Icing, Nut, 235 

Kabeljau mit Pfejfer, 77 
Kaffeecretne, 213 
KaffeekHchlein, 210 
Kaffee mit Kirsch, 238 
Kaffee mit Schlagobers, 238 
Kaffee, tUrkischer, 238 
Kaffeecreme-Gelee, 173 
Kaiserkoch, 170 
Kaiserschmarren, 142 
Kakao mit Schlagobers, 239 
Kalbsbraten, gefilllter, 115 
Kalbschlegel, gespickter, 118 
Kalbsgulasch, 117 
Kalbshim, 119 

Kalbsnierenbraten mit Paprika, 1 1 8 
Kalbsschnitzel, Paprika-, 1 16 



[ 250 ]- 



Kalter Rets, 175 

Kaninchen mit Paprika, 1 1 1 

Kaninchenpastete, 112 

Kardinaly 242 

Karfiol auf Wiener Art,"!! 

Karfiolsuppe, 24 

Karpfen mit Kren, 76 

Karpfen, Paprika-, 76 

Kartojfeln, gebackene, 56 

Kartqffelknodel, 46 

Kartojfel mit faschierter Leber, 72 

Kartqffelgidasch, 61 

Kartoffeln, Senf-, 60 

Kartoffelpuffer, 61 

Kartoffelsalat, 18 

Kartoffelsuppe, lichte, 29 

Kdseauflauf, 143 

Kdsebrot, 182 

Kdsetorte, 222 

Kastanienkoch, 148 

Kastanientorte, 22 1 

Kastanientorte, Radetzky, 222 

Kidney Dumplings, 45 

Kipfeln, 186, 187 

Kipfeln, Topfen-, 188 

Kirschstrudel, 202 

Kirschkaltschale, 38 

Kirschtorte, 229 

Kirschwasser Coflfecj 238 

Kletzenbroty 207 

Klops, 126 

Knodel, bohmische, 42 

Knddel, Kartoffel-, 46 

Knodel, Leber-, 45 

Knddel, Nieren-, 45 

Knddel, Semmel-, 43 

Knddel, Speck-, 42 

Knddel, Tiroler, 47 

Knodel, Topfen-, mit Mehl, 

44 
^ocA, Burgunder, 171 
iCocA, Kaiser-, 170 



Koch, Mandel-, 170 
ATocA mjf FrUchten, 171 
^o/i/j blauer, 62 
Kohlsuppe, Wiener, 34 
Kraftsuppe, lichte, 24 
Kraftsuppe, Wiener, 33 
Krapfen, 212 
Krapfen, Zillertaler, 59 
Kraut auf Wiener Art, 72 
Kraut, garniertes, 57 
Kraut mit Rahm, 53 
Krautsalat, 53 
Krautvjurstel, 65 
Krebsbutter, 164 
Krebse mit Obers, 78 
Krensauce, 153 
Krensuppe, 32 
KUchlein, Kajfee-, 210 
Kiimmelfleisch, 125 
Kiimmelsuppe, 23 
Kurbisse mit Paprika, 70 
Kurbisse, ungarische, 57 

Lamb, Breast of, in Marjoram 

Sauce, 131 
Lamb Cooked with Mushrooms, 

129 
Lamb, Pot-roasted, 128 
Lamb, Stuffed Saddle of, 130 
Lamb's Head, 132 
Lammfleisch, gedunstetes, 128 
Lammfleisch mit Pilzen, 129 
Lammskopf, 132 
Larded Fillet Steak, 119 
Larded Fish, 84 
Larded Leg of Veal, 118 
Larding, 92 
Lauchsuppe, 29 
Layer Cake, 225 
Leberknddel, 45 
Leber kuchen, 16 
Lebersuppe mit Rahm, 34 



-[ 251 ] 



Leek Soup, 29 
Leg of Mutton, 129 
Leg of Pork, Boiled, 133 
Leg of Pork, Roast, 133 
Leg of Pork, Stuffed, 134 
Leg of Veal, Larded, 118 
Lemon Foam, Viermese, 174 
Lemon Icing, 236 
Lemon Sauce, 154 
Lichte Kartoffelsuppe, 29 
Lichte KraftsuppCy 24 
Lieblingshonigkuchen, Mein, 206 
Light Potato Soup, 29 
Linzer Torte, 216 
Linzer Torte, Brown, 217 
Little Meat Pockets, 41 
Liver Dumplings, 45 
Liver Meat Cake, 16 
Liver Soup, Creamed Viennese, 

34 
Loaf, Fruit, 207 
Lobster and Cold Sauce, 84 
Loin of Mutton, Roast, 128 
Loin of Veal, Stuffed, 117 
Luft, Wiener, 174 
Luf tiger Germstrudel, 193 
Lungenbratenfilets, 119 

Macaroon Torte, 224 
Mackerel, Fried, 82 
Mackerel, Paprika, 86 
Madeira Cake, 226 
Makrelen, gebratene, 82 
Makrelen mit Paprika, 86 
Makronentorte, 224 
MandelfUllung, 214 
Mandelkoch, 170 
Mandelmilch, 242 
Mandehchmarren, 145 
Mandehuppe, 37 
Marillensuppe , 37 
Marinated Duck, loi 



Marrow, Hungarian, 57 

Marrow Paprika, 70 

Maultasclien, Wiener, 208 

Mayonnaise, Green, 161 

Mayonnaise, Mustard, 162 

Mayonnaise Sauce, 160 

Meat in Vinegar, 128 

Meat Loaf, 122 

Meat Pockets, Little, 41 

Mehlnockerln, 44 

Mein Lieblingshonigkuchen, 206 

Melone mit Schinken, 15 

Melonen, gefUllte, mit Rahm und 

Erdbeeren, 166 
Melons with Cream and Straw- 
berries, 166 
Meringue Torte, 230 
Milchbrot, 181 
Milchrollen, 186 
Milk RoUs, 186 
Milk with Almonds, 242 
Milkbread, 181 
Minestra, 35 

Minestrone, Viennese, 35 
Mocha Cream, 233 
Mokkatorte, 223 
Mohn-Nudeln, 49 
Mohnkipfel, 185 
Mohntorte, 226 
Mohr im Hemd, 167 
Mohre mit KUmmel, 54 
Murbeteig, 199 
Muscheln mit Wein, 85 
Muschehuppe, 30 
Mushroom and Wine Sauce, 154 
Mushroom Cutlets, 58 
Mushrooms, Baked, 52 
Mussel Soup, 30 
Mussels in Wine, 85 
Mustard Mayonnaise, 162 
Mustard Sauce, Viennese, 159 
Mutton, Leg of, 129 



1 



[ 252 ] 



Mutton, Roast Loin of, 128 
Mutton, Stewed, 130 

Naturgebratener Schweinschlegel, 

133 

Nectar, 241 

Nektar, 241 

Nierenbraten, gervickeJter, 117 

Nierenknodel, 45 

Nigger in his Shirt, 167 

Noodle Dough, Fine, 40 

Noodle Dough, Plain, 40 

Noodle Pie, 48 

Noodles, Poppy-Seed, 49 

Noodles with Cream Cheese, 49 

Nudeln, Erddpfel-, 58, 69 

Nudeln mit Topfen, 49 

Nudeln, Mokn-, 49 

Nudelschoberl, 48 

Nudelteig, feiner, 40 

Nudelteig, gewohnlicher, 40 

Nufibiskuits, 209 

NuJ3f»ll""iy 214 

Nufitorte, 224 

Nut Biscviits, 209 

Nut Filling, 214 

Nut icing, 235 

Nut Torte, 224 

Ochsenschlepp, gedunsteter, 126 
Ochsenzunge mit Kern, 124 
Old Chicken in Sauce, 97 
Olive Sauce, 155 
Omelette, Plain, 138 
Onion Soup, Viennese, 35 
Open Sandwiches, 17 
Orange and Tea Pvmch, 241 
Orange Butter, 232 
Orange Sherbet, 239 
Orange Torte, 220 
Orangenscherbett, 239 
Orangentorte, 220 



Osterreichische Eier, 1 39 

Ox Tongue with Caper Sauce, 125 

Ox Tongue with Horsc-Radish, 124 

Oxtail, Braised, 126 

Oysters, Fried, 82 

Palatschinken, 145, 146 
Pancake, Asparagus, 144 
Pancake, Austrian, 147 
Pancake, Egg Batter, 145, 146 
Pancake, Emperor's, 142 
Pancake, Viennese, 172 
Pancakes, Almond, 145 
Pancakes, Chicken, 14 
Pancakes for Soups, 50 
Pancakes, Potato, with Sauerkraut, 

60 
Pancakes, Yeast, with Jam, 192 
Paprika, Chicken, 92 
Paprika, gefullt mit Reis, 66 
Paprika, gefullte, 136 
Paprikahuhn, 92 
Paprikakarpfen, 76 
Paprika Mackerel, 86 
Paprika, Rabbit, 11 1 
Paprika Veal, 116 
Paprika-Kalbsschnitzel, 116 
Paradiesdpfel, einfache, gefQllte, 

67 
Paradiesdpfel, gebackene, 70 
Paradiesdpfelsauce, heifie, 158 
Paradiesdpfehuppe mit Reis, 31 
Parsley Sauce, 155 
Partridge, Roast, 109 
Pastetchen, 212 
Pastry, Biscuit, 198 
Pastry, French, 200 
Pastry, Puff, 196 
Pastry, Quick Puff, 198 
Pastry, Short, 199 
Pastry Sticks, Pufif, 200 
Pastry, Tartlet, 199 



[ 253 ]- 



Pastry, Wine, 200 
Pastry, Yeast Puff, 197 
Pea Soup, Cream, 26 
Peach Punch, Iced, 240 
Peas, Bohemian, 52 
Peasant Soup, Frugal, 27 
Peasant Soup, Prosperous, Tyro- 
lean Style, 28 
Peppers, Stuffed Green, 66, 136 
Perch, Baked, 74 
Perlhuhn, 108 
Petersiliensauce, 155 
Pfirsichbowle, 240 
Pheasant, Roast, 108 
Pie, Rabbit, 112 
Pigeon, Roast, 106, 107 
Pigeon with Mushrooms, 107 
Pilzschnitzely 58 
Pilze, gebackene, 52 
Plaited Bread, 180 
Pockets, Dough for, 41 
Pockets, Little Meat, 41 
Polish Apples, 169 
Poppy-Seed Noodles, 49 
Poppy-Seed Roll, 185 
Poppy-Seed Torte, 226 
Pork, Boiled Leg of, 133 
Pork Jelly, 17 
Pork, Roast Leg of, 133 
Pork, Stuffed Leg of, 134 
Pork with Cabbage, 136 
Potato and Cheese Turnovers, 59 
Potato and Cheese Turnovers, 59 
Potato Balls, 58 
Potato Balls, Tyrolean, 69 
Potato Bread, 179 
Potato Dumplings, 46 
Potato Pancakes with Sauerkraut, 

60 
Potato Salad, 18 
Potato Soup, Light, 29 
Potato Stew, 61 



Potato Wheels, 61 

Potatoes, Fried, 56 

Potatoes in Mustard Sauce, 60 

Potatoes, Viennese, with Liver 

Stuffing, 72 
Pot-roasted Lamb, 128 
Prosperous Peasant Soup, Tj-rolean 

Style, 28 
Puff Pastry, 196 
Puff Pastry, Quick, 198 
Puff Pastry Sticks, 200 
Puff Pastry, Yeast, 197 
Punch, Iced Peach, 240 
Punch, Orange and Tea, 241 
Punch Torte, 231 
Punch, Vanilla, 240 
Punsch mit Vanillengeschmack, 240 
Punschtorte, 231 

Quick Clear Soup, 30 
Quick Puff Pastry, 198 

Rabbit Paprika, in 

Rabbit Pie, 112 

Radetzky Chestnut Torte, 222 

Radetzky-Kastanientorte, 222 

Radetzky-Reis, 169 

Radetzky Rice, 169 

Ragout, Chicken, 93 

Ragout, Gefliigel-, 93 

Ragout, Giblet and Cooked Poul- 
try, 93 
Redout, Hiihner-, 93 
Rahm, Florentiner, 213 
Rahmstrudel, 203 
Rebhuhn, gebratenes, 109 
Red and Green Pepper Salad, 62 
Red Cabbage with Chestnuts, 62 
Red Wine Pudding, 171 
Red Wine Sauce, 156 
Rets, kalter, 175 
Rets, Radetzky-, 169 



[ 254 ]- 



Rice Bombe, Cold, 175 
Rice, Radetzky, 169 
Rice Soup with Tomatoes, 31 
Rich Gravy Sauce, 156 
Rindfleisch, gesottenes, 121 
Roast Duck, 99, lOO 
Roast Duckling, 100 
Roast Fillet of Beef Esterhazy, 120 
Roast Goose, 102 
Roast Hare, 1 10 
Roast Leg of Pork, 133 
Roast Loin of Mutton, 128 
Roast Partridge, 109 
Roast Pheasant, ic8 
Roast Pigeon, 106, 107 
Roast Snipe, 109 
Roast Stuffed Chicken, 95 
Roast Turkey, 104 
Roast Veal with Kidneys and Pap- 
I rika, 118 

"^ Rohnsalat in saurem Rahm, 55 

Roll, Poppy-Seed, 185 

Rolled Eggs, 138 

Rolls, Crescent, 186 

Rolls, Crescent, with Various Fill- 
t ings, 187 

RoUs, Milk, 186 

RoUs, Salt, 184 

Rostbraten, Esterhazy-, 120 

Roter- und-Griiner-Paprika-Salat, 
62 

Ruben mit Pilzen, 68 

Rum Frosting, 236 

Sacher Chicken, 96 
Sacher-Huhn, 96 
Sacher Tone, 218 
Saftbraten, Wiener, 122 
Salt Rolls, 184 
Salzstangerln, 184 
Sandtorte, 226 
Sandwiches, Open, 17 



Sardellen in Muscheln, 12 
Sardellenbutter, 163 
Sardellensauce, 150 
Sauce mit Pilzen und Wein, 154 
Sauce Tartare, 158 
Saner ampfersauce, 157 
Sauerampfersuppe, 31 
Sauerbraten, 128 

Sauerkraut, Hot, with Onions, 57 
Sauerkraut, witli Apples, 63 
Sauce Rahmsauce, 157 
Sourer Rahm, gefrorener, 173 
Schsiterhaufer, Tiroler, 166 
Schellfisch mit Paprika, 83 
Schinken, gebackener, 135 
Schinken in Brotteig, 135 
Schinkenschnitten, 15 
Schinkenstrudel, 204 
Schinken flecker In, 48 
Schlagobers, Wiener, 172 

Schmarren, 147 

Schmarren made with Bread, 147 

Schmarren, Semmel-, 147 

Schneenockerln, 46 

Schneetorte, 225 

Schnelle Fleischsuppe, 30 

SchneUer Butterteig, 198 

Schnepfe, gebratene, 109 

Schnitten, Schokoladen-, 208 

Schnitzel a la Hase, Wiener, 115 

Schnitzel, Pilz-, 58 

Schnitzel, Vienna, 114 

Schnitzel, Vienna, a la Hase, 115 

Schnitzel, Wiener, 114 

Sckokoladenpudding, heifier, 168 

Schokoladenschnitten, 208 

Schokoladenstrudel, 204 

Schokoladentorte, 227 

Schollenschnitzel mit Sardellensauce, 

81 
Schopsenbrust in Dostensauce, 131 
Schopsenfleisch,gekochtes, 130 



-[ 255 ] 



Schdpsenriicken,gebratener, 128 
SchopsenrUcken, gefulltery 130 
SchdpsenschUgel, 129 
Schwarze Butter, 164 
Schweinefleisch mil Kraut , 136 
Schweinssulz, 17 

Schweimchlegel, faschierter, 134 

Schiveinschlegel, gekochter, 133 

Schweinschlegel,naturgebratenery 
133 

Seezunge, gebackene, 74 

Seezunge mil Wein, 86 

Semmelknodely 43 

Semmelschmarren, 147 

Senfkartoffeln, 60 

Sen/mayonnaise, 162 

Sen/sauce, Wiener , 159 

Sherbet, Orange, 239 

Short Pastry, 199 

Slices, Chocolate, 208 

Snipe, Roast, 109 

Snow Dumplings, 46 

Snow Torte, 225 

Soleier, 12 

Sole, Baked, 74 

Sole in Wine, 86 

Sorrel Sauce, 157 

Sorrel Soup, 31 

Souffle, Cheese, 143 

Souffle, Chestnut, 148 

Sour Cream Mould, 173 

Sour Cream Sauce, 157 

Spanferkel, 134 

Spanische Windtorte, 230 

Spargel, Stangen-, 52 

Spargeltorte, 144 

Sparsame Brennsuppe, 27 

Speckknodely 42 

Speckbraten, Tiroler, 121 

Spinach Bread Fritters with Egg, 63 

Spinach, Creamed, 54 

Spinat mit Obers, 54 



Spinatkucheln mit Eiem, 63 

Spring Cheese, 18 

Stangeln, Butterteig-, 200 

Stangenspargel, 52 

Steak, Fillet Larded, 119 

Steinbutt mit Pilzen, 90 

Stewed Beef, Viennese, 122 

Stewed Mutton, 130 

Stock, Fish Soup, 21 

Stock, Plain, 20 

Stock with Vegetables, 20 

Streuselkuchert, 194 

Stew, Fish, 80 

Stew, Hungarian Chicken, 96 

Stew, Veal, 116 

Strawberry Bowie, 239 

Strawberry Whip, 172 

Straws, Fried, 205 

Streusel Cake, 194 

Striezel, x8o 

Stroh, gebackenes, 205 

Strudel, Apple, 202 

Strudel, Bacon, 204 

Strudel, Cherry, 202 

Strudel, Chocolate, 204 

Strudel, Cream, 203 

Strudel, Cream Cheese, 203 

Strudel Dough, 201 

Strudel mit Topfen, 203 

Strudel, Wine, 205 

Strudel, Yeast, 190 

Strudelteig, 201 

Stuffed Chicken, 94 

StuflFed Chicken, Roast, 95 

Stuffed Duck, 102 

Sttiffed Eggs with Crayfish Butter, 

141 
Stuffed Green Peppers, 136 
Stuffed Leg of Pork, 134 
Stuffed Loin of Veal, 117 
Stuffed Saddle of Lamb, 130 
Stuffed Veal, 115 



[ 256 ]- 



Suiffingj Goose, 103, 104 
Stuffing, Turkey, 104 — 106 
Sucking Pig, 134 
Suppe mit Leberknodeln, 25 
SuB-saure, grUne Bohnen, 69 
Sweet-Sour Green Beans, 69 

Tartar Sauce, 158 
Tartlet Pastry, 199 
Tartlets, Florentine, 207 
Tascherln, Fleisch-, 41 
Tascherlriy Teigfiir, 41 
Tauben, gebratene, 106, 107 
Tauten mit Pilzen, 107 
Tea Cookies, 209 
Teebrotchen, 209 
Teigfiir Tascherln, 41 
Tiroler Brennsuppe mit Weirty 28 
Tiroler Eierspeise, 141 
Tiroler Forellen, 89 
Tiroler Fridattensuppe, 32 
Tiroler Knodel, 47 
Tiroler Scheiterhaufer, 166 
Tiroler Speckbraten, 121 
Tomato Sauce, Hot, 158 
Tomatoes, Stuffed, 67 
Tomatoes, Viennese Baked, 70 
Tongue with Caper Sauce, 125 
Tongue with Horse-Radish, 124 
Topfenkipfeln, 188 
Topfenknodel mit Mehl, 44 
Torte, Apple, 219 
Torte, Biscuit, 228 
Torte, Brown Linzer, 217 
Torte, Butter, 220 
Torte, Cheese, 222 
Torte, Cherry, 229 
Torte, Chestnut, 221 
Torte, Chocolate, 227 
Torte, Date, with Nuts, 223 
Torte, Fruit, 221 
Torte, Linzer, 216 



Torte, Macaroon, 224 

Torte, Meringue, 230 

Torte, Nut, 224 

Torte, Orange, 220 

Torte, Poppy-Seed, 226 

Torte, Punch, 231 

Torte, Radetzky Chestnut, 222 

Torte, Sacher-, 218 

Torte, Snow, 225 

Torte, Traunkirchener, 218 

Torte, Triester, 217 

Torte, Vienna, 216 

Torteletten, Florentiner, 207 

Tortelettenteig, 199 

Transparent Glaze, 235 

Traunkirchener Torte, 218 

Triester Torte, 217 

Trout, Blue, 75 

Trout Fried in Oil, 88 

Trout, Tyrolean, 89 

Trout with Tomato and Bacon, 87 

Truthahn, gebratener, 104 

Turbot with Mushrooms, 90 

Turkey, Roast, 104 

Turkey Stuffing, 104 — 106 

Tarkischer Kaffee, 238 

Turkish Coffee, 238 

Turnips, Stuffed, 68 

Turnovers, Vienna, 208 

Tyrolean Beef, 121 

Tyrolean Bread-and-Butter Pud- 
ding, 166 

Tyrolean Clear Soup with Sliced 
Pancakes, 32 

Tyrolean Dumplings, 47 

Tyrolean Horseradish Soup, 32 

Tyrolean Potato Balls, 69 

Tyrolean Trout, 89 

Ungarische KUrbisse, 57 
Ungarisches Gulasch, 123 
Ungarisches Hiihnerragout, 96 



-[ 257 ]- 



Vanilla Punch, 240 
Vanilla Sugar, 176 
Vanillezucker, 176 
Veal Goulash, 117 
Veal, Larded Leg of, 118 
Veal, Paprika, 116 
Veal, Roast, with Kidneys and Pap- 
rika, 118 
Veal Stew, 116 
Veal, Stuffed, 115 
Veal, Stuffed Loin of, 117 
Vegetable Marrow Paprika, 70 
Vegetable Soup, 36 
Vienna Gugelhupf, 210 
Vienna Schnitzel, 114 
Vienna Schnitzel k la Hase, 115 
Vienna Torte, 216 
Vierma Turnovers, 208 
Viennese Baked Tomatoes, 70 
Viennese Beef Soup, 33 
Viennese Beggarman's Pudding,i67 
Viennese Biscuits, 208 
Viennese Cabbage, 72 
Viennese Cabbage Soup, 34 
Viennese Cauliflower, 71 
Viennese Creamed Liver Soup, 34 
Viennese Hamburgers, 126 
Viennese Lemon Foam, 174 
Viermese Minestrone, 35 
Viennese Mustard Sauce, 159 
Viennese Onion Soup, 35 
Viennese Pancake, 172 
Viennese Potatoes with Liver Stuff- 
ing, 72 
Viennese Stewed Beef, 122 
Viennese Whipped Cream, 172 
Vol-au-Vent, 212 

Watercress Sauce, 159 
Wsinsauce, 156 



Weinstrudel, 205 

Weinteig, 200 

Weifie Sauce, 160 

Whipped Cream Chocolate, 239 

Whipped Cream Coffee, 238 

Whipped Cream, Viennese, 172 

White Pea Soup with Pork, 16 

White Sauce, 160 

Wiener Backhuhn, 92 

Wiener Biskuits, 208 

Wiener Gugelhupf, 210 

Wiener Kohhuppe, 34 

Wiener Kraftsuppe, 32 

Wiener Luft, 174 

Wiener Maultaschen, 208 

Wiener Saftbraten^ 122 

Wiener Schlagobers, 172 

Wiener Schnitzel, 114 

Wiener Schnitzel a la Hase, 115 

Wierur Senf sauce, 159 

Wiener Torte, 216 

Wiefier Zwiebelsuppe, 35 

Wine Pastry, 200 

Wine Strudel, 205 

Yeast Cakes, Fairy, 193 

Yeast Dough, 189 

Yeast Pancakes with Jam, 192 

Yeast Puff Pastry, 197 

Yeast Strudel, 190 

Young Vegetable Soup, 36 

Zillertaler Krapfen, 59 
Zitronensauce, 154 
Zucker,gebrannter, 236 
Zunge mit Kapernsauce, 125 
Zwieback, 184 
Zwiebelsuppe, Wiener, 35 
Zzviebelkuchen, 13 



1 




ORM WI 



S V O L U M 




French Cooking 

ELIZABETH SMART AND AGNES RYAN 

The haute cuisine of France is known throughout the world, 
and the subtle flavourings beloved of the French chefs are the 
deUght of all who make their acquaintance. This book sets out, 
simply and clearly, the secrets of French cooking in a way which 
will make you want to try them for yourself — and you will be 
astonished at the ease with which you too can prepare these 
delicious dishes in your own kitchen. 

German Cooking 

NELLA WHITFIELD 

German cooking is not as well-known in England as it deserves 
to be. It is soUdj satisfying — and delicious: and transforms the 
most ordinary ingredients into dishes fit for an Emperor. 
Hundreds of recipes are included m this book, and many of 
them will speedily become firm favourites, for they are quickly 
and easily prepared with the minimum of trouble and expense. 

Italian Cooking 

DOROTHY DALY 

Noodles, spaghetti, macaroni, vermicelli — all these are familiar 
to every lover of interesting food. But Italy is the home of many 
other delicious recipes, and this book gives you the opponujiity 
of getting to know them. You will soon find many favourites 
among these clearly-described dishes, and enjoy the authentic 
Italian flavour which you will be able to conjure up so easily. 



