A R E 

P H Y Q 

X AX .£ kJ 




I. \^ 



§^' 



OF A PAST 
CENTURY 




IN. AID OF 

Lady Lansdo wne'^ 
War Fund 



2 



■!l!Sliii!iJll''!'.''''-;::i-.r!i'.V!iiii;ili*|i|' 



ALBERT R. MANN 
LIBRARY 



New York State Colleges 

OF 

Agriculture and Home Economics 




AT 

Cornell University 



Cornell University Library 
TX 717.S84 

Fare and physic of a past century. 

3 1924 003 573 015 




The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003573015 



FARE AND PHYSIC OF A 
PAST CENTURY 



Edinhurgh : Printed by George Waterstoji 6^ Sons 

FOE 

DAVID DOUGLAS 

LONDON, . SIMPKIN, MISRSHALL, HAMILTON, KENT; A.ND CO., LIMITED 

CAMBRIDGE, . MACMILLAN AND BOWES 
GLASGOW, . JAMES MACLEHOSE AND SONS 



FARE AND PHYSIC 



OF 



A PAST CENTURY 



COMPILED BY 

ALICE M. §TEWART 

AND 

ELLA R. CHRISTIE 



EDINBURGH 

DAVID DOUGLAS, CASTLE STREET 

I 900 



7/7 

187091 



CONTENTS. 



Soups, 

Second Course Dishes, 
Hot Puddings, .... 
Cold Sweets, .... 

Bread, Scone, and Cake Baking, 
Preserving, Pickling, and Curing, 
Beverages, ... 

Household and Miscellaneous Recipes, 



I 

7 
IS 
29 

41 
65 

;5 

8s 



MEASUREMENTS. 

A Choppin, .... I Quart. 
A MuTCHKiN, .... I Pint, 
A LippiE, .... I Peck. 



PREFACE. 



" "\ T 70MEN can spin very well, but they cannot make 
» » a good book of cookery." Such was the opinion 
expressed by the Solomon of the i8th century in one 
of his recorded conversations, when he also stated his desire 
of producing one on entirely philosophical principles — an 
intention, alas ! which was never fulfilled, as who can tell 
what a revolution in cuisine his work might have effected ? 
A specimen of what the male intellect can achieve in this 
direction is to be found in recipe No. 82. Notice the broad 
grasp of the subject, and the fine disregard of petty details ! 
In the face of such an opinion, and of the fact that of 
making many cookery books there is no end, we feel 
obliged to offer a word of explanation why another should 
be added to the number. 

On turning over the pages of a far back treasured manu- 
script — the writing somewhat obliterated, but still showing 
evidence of a not too accurate acquaintance with spelling — 
it has occurred to us that much is passing away which it 
would be of interest to retain, and that it may be worth 
while to try to revive some of those culinary excellencies 
and homely remedies for which a past generation was 
famed. 

In the latter department, though we may smile at 
some of the prescriptions, we feel sure they were both 



Vlll PREFACE. 



administered and received in a spirit of faith, which, if 
not sufficient to remove mountains, apparently exercised 
itself on a humbler object ; and if a pint of Archangel 
tar may sound somewhat barbaric, yet doubtless something 
of medical knowledge is to be found in the composition of 
such a decoction. 

Though we cannot claim to have tried all the recipes 
and remedies given, we leave it to the present generation 
to profit by the experience of a past ; and our apology for 
such a medley as this book offers is that of those who, 
"though they cannot weave a uniform web, may at least 
produce a piece of patchwork, which may be useful and 
not without a charm of its own." 

ALICE M. STEWART. 

ELLA R. CHRISTIE. 

&ik March 1900. 



The entire proceeds of the sale of this book will 
be given to the Marchioness of Lansdowne's Officers' 
Families Fund. 



SOUPS. 



SOUPS. 



I: Ox-Head Soup and Stew. 

The head gives a nourishing and savoury soup, and the 
meat (stewed) is tender and nourishing ; a Httle arrowroot im- 
proves and enriches both the soup and the stew. 

The following spices may be added as seasoning : — 2 oz. 
black pepper, 2 oz. Jamaica pepper, 2 oz. cloves (ground), -g^ oz. 
ginger (ground), J oz. Cayenne pepper. 

Of this mixture one tablespoonful will be suflScient for a large 
tureen ; put in half an hour before the soup is taken off the fire. 

2. Wood Pigeon Soup. 

Half roast 3 pigeons, flour and butter them well when first 
put to the fire; when half roasted, cut some slices from the 
breasts, and set them aside ; then cut the birds up into joints and 
bruise them a little; put them on the fire with about 2 quarts 
of cold water, i onion (not large), i small turnip, some parsley, 
thyme, and margoram, salt and pepper to taste ; let it boil slowly 
for five or six hours, then strain it ; about half an hour before 
serving put it on the fire again, and take the meat cut from the 
breasts and cut it into square bits, put them into the soup to 
boil ; thicken, before serving, with flour and butter. 

3. Oyster Soup. 

Take a proportion of veal and beef stock with 25 oysters and 
the juice of them and the yolks of 4 eggs ; put it on to boil for 
some time, then strain it through a sieve ; add 75 more oysters 
parboiled and bearded, and a glass of sherry wine ; let it then 
boil about five minutes, take it off, add the yolks of 6 eggs, beat 
up with a cup of cream ; it will then be ready to serve. 

Note. — The above quantity of oysters can be reduced if 
desired. 



FARE AND PHYSIC 



4. Hare Soup. 

Choose a large heavy hare, skin it, cut it in pieces, saving 
the blood ; put the hare and blood into a basin with about 2 
quarts of cold water ; take about a breakfast cup of flour, rub it 
down with a little of the blood and water as you would do starch ; 
after the blood is well off the pieces, put them into a pot with as 
much stock as you require soup ; then strain the blood, &c., 
through a hair sieve, allow it to boil some time, then strain it again 
through the sieve to make it an equal thickness ; replace it on 
the fire, adding salt, pepper, and Cayenne to taste. Let it boil 
till the hare is quite done. 

5. Chicken Soup. 

Take two-thirds of veal stock and one of beef; cut up and skin 
a fowl, put it on with the stock ; let it boil till the fowl is done, 
then take it off; beat up 3 eggs and about a teacupful of 
cream ; mix these into the soup, stirring it up and down, after 
which it must be kept hot, but not allowed to boil. If not for 
present use, beat up the eggs with a little water, and put in the 
cream. When it is to be served, a little fine-shred parsley, par- 
boiled and put in the tureen with this soup, is an improvement. 

6. White Soup. 

Take a proportion of veal and beef stock ; put it on with a 
chicken skinned and cut in pieces ; let it boil till the chicken is 
thoroughly done ; take it off and strain it ; then take the breast 
of the fowl and pound it quite fine, along with a little bread 
previously soaked in milk ; press it through a sieve into the soup, 
and boil all for some time ; take it off, and beat the yolks of 
6 eggs with a cup of cream, put this to the soup, keeping stirring 
for five minutes. It must not boil after the cream goes in, for 
this will turn it. 

7. Mock Turtle Soup. 

Take a calf's head, boil it until the hair pulls off easily ; after 
it is cleaned and cold, skin it ; cut the skin, along with the flesh, 
about the head, tongue, palate, ears, in small square pieces ; put 



OF A PAST CENTURY. S 

the pieces on to boil in half and half beef and veal stock ; after it 
has boiled some time, take it off, and add about a quart of milk, 
made fresh for the soup ; let it boil till all the scum is clean off 
and it is of a proper thickness ; a glass and a-half white wine, 
spoonful of ketchup, pepper and salt to taste. 

8. Brown Soup. 

Make your stock of a piece of spawl and red meat ; if made 
the day before, run it through a colinder into the pot ; put about 
J or I of a pound of steak into a frying-pan, without any grease ; 
make it a fine brown, taking care not to burn it ; when done, 
take out the steak, which you may put into your soup ; then riin 
a little warm water into the frying-pan, stirring it with the browned 
juice of the steak ; add this to your stock till of a proper colour, 
adding Cayenne, pepper, and salt to taste. When to be dished, 
dip a thin muslin bag in hot water, then run the soup through it 
into the tureen. 

9. Spring Fruit Soup. 

Peel and wash well 4 dozen sticks of rhubarb, blanch in water 
three or four minutes ; after draining, place them in a stew-pan, 
with 2 onions sliced, i carrot, i oz. lean ham, i oz. butter. 
Stew gently over a slow fire till tender ; then add 2 quarts good 
stock, to which add 2 or 3 oz. bread crumbs ; boil about seventy- 
five minutes, skim off all fat, season with salt and pepper, rub 
through a hair sieve, and serve with fried bread. 

10. Cockie-Leekie (i). 

Trim 2 or 3 bunches of large winter leeks,, cutting off the roots 
and parts of the heads ; then cut them into pieces about one inch 
long (which may also be split) ; wash well in three waters if old 
and strong; allow them to boil for ten minutes in a gallon of 
water. Having previously prepared a stock made thus : take a 
fowl and 2 or 3 lb. of beef or veal, with some Jamaica pepper 
and salt, and, when the fowl seems tender, cut off the best parts 
of the flesh, which keep to serve in the tureen ; then put back 
the body till the stock is ready. When cold, and all the fat 
removed, add the leeks as above, and allow them to boil for four 



6 FARE AND PHYSIC OF A PAST CENTURY. 

or five hours. If not thick and massy enough after having boiled 
half that time, add some more leeks ; and, about half an hour 
before serving, put in the pieces of fowl and a dozen or so of 
prunes. This soup will keep several days, and will improve by a 
second warming. 

II. Cockie-Leekie (2). 

Cut I dozen large, good leeks about one inch long, with some 
of the tender green ; throw them into water as they are cut, and 
take care they be well cleaned. Put them in a pot with 3 chopins 
(3 quarts) of water ; cut a penny brick in thin slices, and pare off 
the crust ; brown 8 oz. of butter ; give the bread a brown on both 
sides, and wash ^ lb. of prunes; put these among the soup, 
seasoning with a little spice and salt. When the leeks are done 
and the soup reduced to a pint (2 quarts), put it into a dish and 
serve. If you wish the soup richer, make the stock of beef. 

12. Plum Pottage. 

Boil a hough of beef, till the substance is out, in 6 pints 
(3 gallons) of water ; then strain and skim it ; set it again on the 
fire, with the round of a thigh of veal. Pick out the crumb of 
a twopenny loaf, put it in a bowl, and pour over it about i 
mutchkin (i pint) of the boiling soup, and let it stand covered 
till it is soft; beat it with a spoon till smooth, and put it into the 
stock. Add I lb. of currants, washed and dried ; i lb. of raisins, 
stoned ; J lb. of prunes. Boil all together for quarter of an hour ; 
then put the veal in the middle of the dish, pour the soup about 
it, and serve. 



SECOND COURSE DISHES. 



SECOND COURSE DISHES. 



13. Cecils. 

Mince any kind of meat, crumbs of bread, a good deal of 
onion, some anchovies, lemon peel, salt, nutmeg, chopped 
parsley, and a bit of butter. Warm and mix these over a fire 
for a few minutes. When cool enough, make them up into balls 
the size and shape of a turkey egg, with an egg. Sprinkle them 
with fine crumbs, and fry them a yellow brown. Serve with 
gravy. 

14. Green Peas as Second Course. 

Boil the peas till quite tender in water ; when well done, put 
them in a stew-pan, with a little piece of butter, till they become 
a little brown ; then shake some powdered sugar over them and 
a teacupful of cream, in which you have stirred about a teaspoon^ 
ful of cinnamon. Warm all together, and send them to table hot., 

15. Dry Curry. 

Mince 2 onions and 2 apples very small ; brown 2 oz. of 
butter in a stew-pan ; add the onions and apples, brown them well, 
taking care that they do not burn. Mix a large tablespoonful of 
curry powder and one of flour, put into the stew-pan, stir con- 
stantly ; add one teacupful of cream ; have 25 oysters, add to the 
curry, mix well together, and salt to taste. An hour before dinner 
butter a round jelly mould, press the curry into it ; have some 
boiled rice, with it fill four buttered teacups, pressing- it down to 
keep, the form when turned out. Serve all up in a corner dish, 
the curry in the centre and the rice round. Garnish with parsley. 

16. Oyster Shape (Hot). 

3 oz. macaroni, 2 oz. cheese, 2 oz. bread crumbs, 2 oz. 
butter, 2 eggs, 50 oysters. Work the butter to a cream ; mince 
the macaroni and oysters, season with pepper, mustard, and 



lO FARE AND PHYSIC 

Cayenne ; add the other ingredients, and mix with oyster liquor, 
to which has been added a Httle cream; butter a mould, and 
steam half an hour. Turn out in a dish, and serve with oyster 
sauce. 

17. Scalloped Salsify, 

Wash the salsify in cold water, and cut into small pieces ; put 
it on the fire with a little stock, and boil three hours ; then add a 
little anchovy essence, pepper and salt, Worcester sauce, and 
ketchup to taste. Put into buttered scallop shells, strew bread 
crumbs on top, and brown before the fire. 

18. Curried Potatoes. 

Slice a good sized onion, and fry with J lb. butter ; cut up 
I lb. boiled potatoes, put them in the frying-pan with onion, 
dredge well with curry powder ; add one gill stock, little salt, and 
squeeze of lemoii. Shake the whole over the fire for ten minutes, 
and serve hot. The potatoes may be rubbed through a sieve and 
made into balls. 

19. Fish Pie. 

I small sole (filleted), 6 oysters, a few bread crumbs, i egg ; 
butter a pie -dish, and sprinkle the bottom with a few bread 
crumbs ; then lay the fish, oysters, little lemon juice, Cayenne 
pepper, and salt; beat the eggs to a froth, add to them the 
oyster liquor, i dessert spoon of flour, and ^ gill of milk ; pour 
this over the fish, sprinkle with bread crumbs, a few pieces of 
butter on top, and bake in the oven 1 5-20 minutes ; any pieces of 
white fish may be used. 

20. Savoury Rabbit Pie. 

The best meat of 8 rabbits (not the shoulder or any sinewy 
part) ; all the skin and rough part to be taken away. Line a 
pie-dish on bottom with thick pieces .of fat bacon, then a layer of 
rabbit, seasoning with pepper, salt, powdered sage, and thyme; 
very little of each sprinkled over. Continue this till the dish is 
full, then lay a sheet of white paper on top, and cover with any 
sort of rough paste ; during baking, which takes eight hours in 



OF A PAST CENTURY. II 



not too hot an oven, the pie-dish being placed all the time in a 
pan of water. Meantime all the bones of the rabbits and a little 
bacon bone to be boiled down to about a quart of jelly. When 
the pie is baked, take off the paste and paper and drain off the 
liquid from the pie ; add it to jelly, and boil well ; if not quite 
stiff, add a little gelatine. Pour over the pie to fill all crevices, 
and stick a knife in several places so that the hot jelly may get 
well through it ; this must be done directly the pie is taken out 
of the oven. Next day the pie can be turned out and served on 
a dish, but, if preferred, left in pie-dish with a thick coating 
of butter or aspic jelly on it. It keeps longer with the butter. 

21. Savoury Pie. 

The same, only thin layers of force meat alternately with the 
rabbit and bacon, but not to omit the seasoning. 

22. Force Meat for Cold Savoury Pies. 

I lb. veal, I lb. fat bacon, salt, -Cayenne pepper, and pounded 
mace to taste, a very little nutmeg, the same of chopped lemon 
peel, J teaspoonful chopped parsley, ^ teaspoonful mixed savoury 
herbs, i or 2 eggs. Chop the veal and bacon together, put them 
in a mortar with the other ingredients mentioned above. Pound 
well, and bind with i or 2 eggs, which have been previously 
beaten or strained ; work the whole well together and the force 
meat will be ready for use. If the pie is not to be eaten im- 
mediately, omit the herbs and parsley, as these would prevent it 
from keeping. Sufficient for 2 small pies. 

23. Roman Pie. 

I oz. vermicelli, 6 oz. puff pastry, ^ lb. beef steak, 2 oz. 
cooked macaroni, i small onion boiled, 2 oz. grated cheese, i 
hard boiled egg, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper and salt to 
taste, I gill of gravy or stock, ^ oz. butter to grease tin. Grease 
till, shake over vermicelli to line it till all covered, then line with 
pastry on top of vermicelli. Cut up the steak and onion, and 
mix all the ingredients with the stock in the mould, cover with a 
lid of paste, brush with water and sprinkle with vermicelli ; make 



12 FARE AND PHYSIC 



a hole in the top ; bake i hour in a moderate oven ; turn out the 
pie on a dish, and decorate with parsley. 

24. Finkadella. 

8 oz. of lean beef well minced and pounded, a small piece of 
butter pounded with it ; 5 oz. of suet cut fine ; soak some bread 
in thin cream mixed with weak beef stock (about ^ slice of loaf 
cut thick) ; it must look like thick butter sauce, and is to be added 
to the pounded meat ; pepper, salt, and a little minced onion to 
taste. Lastly, the suet is gradually put in ; make round balls of 
the whole, and boil them three-quarters of an hour in weak soup. 

25. Cream of Rabbit (French). 

Take the breast of an uncooked chicken or the fillets of 
rabbit, pound well and season, add three-parts of the white of an 
egg pounded in it, pass through a hair sieve. Put in a large 
basin; whip a pint of cream till stiff; mix in slowly with the 
meat, working each spoonful separately; butter a plain pipe 
mould and fill three-parts full. Steam very slowly three-quarters 
of an hour, avoiding boiling. Being slowly cooked is the chief 
thing. Make a plain sauce and pour round. 

26. Hot Pot. 

Pare 4 lb. potatoes, wash them clean. Take 2 lb. beef, i lb. 
mutton, and i lb. pork, or 4 lb. of any meat. Cut it into pieces 
of 3 or 4 oz. each ; season well with pepper and salt and an onion 
chopped smal/. Have ready a strong wide-mouthed stone jar, 
slice thin a layer of the potatoes into the jar, then a layer of the 
seasoned meat time about, the upper one potatoes, the jar to be 
about three-quarters full. 

Put no water into the jar, close it up with a cork bung, 
covering it with a strong piece of canvas. Tie it down with 
twine ; a little steam should escape in the stewing to prevent the 
jar from bursting. 

Put the jar into a pan of cold water on the fire, the mouth of 
the jar to be always two or three inches above the water when 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 1 3 

boiling. Let it boil an hour after the water comes to boil, when 
the stew will be ready. 

27. Soubise Sauce. 

Peel six large onions and cut them in very thin slices, put 
them into a stew-pan with a J lb. butter ; place them over a slow 
fire, stirring occasionally until tender, but keeping them quite 
white ; add i oz. of flour, mix it well in, then ^ pint white sauce 
and ^ pint of milk. Boil together twenty minutes ; season with 
pepper, salt, and sugar, and a little cream may be added; rub 
through a sieve, put in another stew-pan, make it hot and serve 
when required. This sauce should be rather thick, but not pasty. 

28. Sauce for Cold Game. 

Take the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, 2 small shalots, ^ tea- 
spoonful of mustard pounded in a mortar ; pass through a sieve, 
then add 2 tablespoonfuls of Harvey sauce, 3 tablespoonfuls of 
white vinegar, a little Cayenne pepper and salt, and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of cream. 

29. Cheese Straws. 

2 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, 2 oz. Parmesan cheese, i oz. cheddar, 
I egg, salt and Cayenne to taste. Mix cheese, butter, and flour 
together as for short crust, add seasoning and bind all together 
with egg beaten up with i tablespoonful water. Roll out on 
floured board and cut in thin straws and rings. Bake in moder- 
ately quick oven ten to fifteen minutes. Dish in bundles on 
paper. 

30. Dr Gillan's Cheese Pudding. 

Cut up some pieces of cheese, put in a saucepan with 2 
tablespoonfuls of either milk or cream and i egg slightly beaten. 
Stir till it comes to the boil, but not more ; pour into a small 
buttered ashet, and place in the oven till brown on the top. 

31. Fondu of Cheese. 

Stir into a little milk some spoonfuls of the finest flour 
till quite smooth; boil it gently for twenty minutes; add 3 or 



14 FARE AND PHYSIC OF A PAST CENTURY. 

4 eggs well beat up ; let it cool and then stir in some finely 
grated cheese, season with mustard, pepper, and salt, and bake 
it in the oven. 

32i, Toasted Cheese. 

Mix 3 oz. of grated cheese, the yolks of 2 eggs, 4 oz. of 
butter, 3 oz. of grated bread, a teaspoonful of mustard, a little 
salt and pepper ; beat the whole in a mortar ; toast some bread 
cut in slices, lay the above mixture thick upon them, put in a 
Dutch oven, covered over with a dish ; let the cheese brown 
a little and serve as hot as possible. 

33. Acacia Jumble. 

2 yolks of eggs and i white, i tablespoonful grated Parmesan 
cheese, i tablespoonful Worcester sauce, Harvey sauce, a little 
Cayenne. Mix well together, pass through a sieve, put on the 
fire and stir till quite hot. Serve on fried toast. 



HOT PUDDINGS. 



HOT PUDDINGS. 



34. Paradise Pudding. 

2 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, melted in a saucepan ; the flour beat 
to a smooth paste in the butter ; then pour a pint of hot milk to 
it ; keep stirring it all the time till well mixed. When cold, add 
the yolks and whites of 4 eggs well beaten ; a paste border round 
the dish. Lay at the bottom of dish preserved fruit or stoned 
raisins, white pounded sugar, grated lemon rind, also sweet and 
bitter almonds. 

35. Orange Pudding. 

Take 5 oz. fresh butter, melt it in a pan without oiling ; add 
to it whilst warm 5 oz. pounded sugar and the yolks of 10 eggs; 
beat them a little first, and after all is mixed together, beat it until 
it looks white ; have the bottom of your dish covered with puff 
paste and orange marmalade, and pour the rest of the ingredients 
on it. Bake it in a moderate oven. This also does for cheese- 
cakes. — (Mrs Scott.) 

36. Sunday Plum Pudding (i). 

6 oz. flour, 6 oz. suet, \ lb. stoned raisins, 3 eggs well beaten, 
and as much milk as will make it a proper consistency, but by no 
means stiff"; add a pinch of salt, and boil it six hours in a cloth. 

37. Plum Pudding (2). 

J lb. siiet, J lb. flour, ^ lb. raisins, ^ lb. currants, ^ teacupful 
bread crumbs, 4 eggs and a nutmeg, \ glass brandy mixed with 
milk. Boil it seven hours. 

38, Economical Pudding. 

^ lb. flour, ^ lb. suet, ^ lb. raisins and currants, \ lb. treacle, 
mixed with a little milk, so as to make the whole a proper con- 
sistency. Put it into a buttered mould, and boil for five hours. 

B 



FARE AND PHYSIC 



39. Marmalade Pudding. 

I breakfast cup of flour, 4 eggs well beaten, 4 spoons of 
brown sugar, | lb. of butter melted (be careful not to let it oil), 

1 tablespoonful of marmalade, a little candied lemon peel cut fine 
or grated ; i teaspoonful of baking powder or carbonate of soda 
put in the last thing. Put the flour, sugar, lemon peel and soda 
all in a basin together, the melted butter and eggs along with the 
marmalade ; mix all well together ; put it into a shape, and steam 
it three-quarters of an hour. Serve with wine sauce. 

40. Blackett Pudding. 

6 oz. bread crumbs, i^ oz. sago, 4 oz. suet, 3 oz. sugar; nut- 
meg and lemon grated, or essence of lemon ; i egg, and fully ^ 
a teacupful of milk. Ornament the shape with either raisins or 
prunes, and boil it two hours. Serve with sauce made with i egg, 
a glass of wine mixed with a little water, and sugar to taste. 

41. Mont Blanc Pudding. 

^ lb. beef suet chopped very fine, ^ lb. bread crumbs sifted 
fine, ^ lb. brown sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls orange marmalade, 4 
eggs well beaten. Ornament your mould with raisins, fill it, put 
a greased paper on the top, tie it in a cloth, and steam for four 
hours. Have ready a pint of whipped cream, whip it with the 
juice and rind of J a lemon (the rind chopped very fine), and 

2 oz. sifted sugar. Serve it on a cold dish, that the cream may 
not be at once melted ; cover the pudding with cream. 

42. A Wholesome Pudding. 

^ lb. grated bread, ^ lb. fresh butter, 4 tablespoonfuls of pre- 
serve. Butter a plain tin shape, fill it with alternate layers of 
crumbs, preserve, and butter. Bake it an hour, and strew with 
white and pink sugar after it is turned out. 

43. Edgemouth Pudding. 

Peel 6 good sized apples, all of the same size ; carefully scoop 
out all the cores, and fill the holes with sugar and pounded 



OF A PAST CENTURY. IQ 

cloves ; place the apples in a pie-dish, and pour over them a nice, 
light batter, such as one makes for a nice batter pudding ; let the 
batter just cover the apples. Bake it for an hour in a slow oven. 
Brush the top while warm with white of egg, and dust with fine 
sugar. 

44. Friar's Omelette. 

Boil 6 large apples as if for sauce ; mix ^ lb. butter, ^ lb. 
sugar; when cold, add 4 eggs well beaten; season with lemon 
peel, nutmeg, or almond. Butter a baking dish and strew with 
bread crumbs ; then put in the apples, and strew bread crumbs 
plentifully over the top. When baked, turn out, and sift over 
with white sugar. 

45. Apple Domandeau. 

Stew some apples in a glass of white wine with a stick of 
cinnamon, a little lemon juice and some white sugar. Make a 
rich custard ; lay the apples round the dish, and put the custard 
in the middle ; beat the whites of 6 eggs to a froth and lay it on 
the top of the apples ; sift some sugar over it, and bake in a 
moderate oven for twenty minutes. 

46. Boiled Apple Pudding. 

8 oz. chopped apples, 10 oz. currants, 8 oz. bread crumbs, 
8 oz. sugar, 4 eggs. Beat your eggs, and mix the ingredients 
well together. Boil for two hours. 

47. Apple Loaf. 

Butter a bowl and line with thin cut slices of bread, allowing 
them to overlap, and fastened with bits of butter. Fill up with 
sliced apple, sugar, and a little ground cinnamon. Put bread over 
the top, and boil three hours. 

48. Small Puddings. 

The yolks of 4 eggs and the whites of 2, beat separately; 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour ; ^ lb. melted butter (be careful not to oil 
it) ; and 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Beat all together, butter your 
cups or moulds, half fill them (when they rise to the top they are 
done). This quantity will make 5 puddings. 



20 FARE AND PHYSIC 



49. Cake Pudding. 

4 oz. sugar, 4 oz. flour, 4 oz. butter. Set the butter before 
the fire to oil, take it up and, when nearly cold, beat it well, then 
add the eggs (4) first, well beaten, then the sugar and flour. 
Bake the mixture in small cups or tins, and serve with wine sauce. 

50. French Pancakes. 

Break in a basin 5 eggs, then mix in 2 oz. of warm butter, 2 
oz. of fine flour, i pint new milk, the rind and juice of a lemon, 
and a little sugar ; mix all together ; butter 1 2 saucers and fill 
with the mixture ; bake twenty minutes. When done, put them 
neatly one upon the other with a layer of preserves between them. 

51. Rice Pancakes. 

3 oz. flour of rice, and place on the fire with i choppin 
(quart) sweet milk and ^ lb. butter ; stir till it is thick and smooth ; 
take it off, and when nearly cold stir in 3 tablespoonfuls fine flour ; 
sweeten and season with nutmeg and pinch of salt ; beat 8 eggs 
till light, mix them with the rice and a glass of white wine and 
fry them ; or butter some teacups, fill them more than half full ; 
bake in an oven. When ready, turn them out, and eat them with 
beat butter, wine and sugar. 

52. Albert Pudding. 

Beat to a cream 6 oz. fresh butter, mix by degrees A lb. 
pounded sugar ; mix with these first the yolks of 5 eggs ; strew in 
J lb. flour and ^ lb. raisins, chopped lemon peel, a litde salt, and 
a good glass of brandy; then beat the whites of the eggs to a 
froth, and add to the other ingredients. Pour into a mould and 
steam for three hours. 

53. Prince Albert Pudding. 

Beat to a cream J lb. fresh butter, add gradually J lb. sifted 
sugar, and beat well ; then add the yolks of 5 eggs, which must 
have been thoroughly beaten, also the whites to a stiff froth ; now 
strew in lightly ^ lb. finest flour dried and sifted ; lastly, J lb. 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 21 

raisins stoned, a little pounded mace, the grated rind of a lemon, 
and place strips of candied peel into the greased mould. Mix 
well before putting into the mould, and boil three hours. 

54. Recipe for Plum Pudding (3). 

Beat up s eggs with half a mutchkin (pint) good cream into 
a high froth ; add a spoonful rose water, and 4 or 5 spoonfuls fine 
flour, and a small teaspoonful of salt ; add some powdered nut- 
meg, mace, and cinnamon to your taste ; 5 lb. of sugar, i glass 
of brandy, i glass of white wine ; beat the whole into a smooth 
batter. Cut J lb. beef suet fine, stone and shred ^ lb. best 
raisins ; pick and wash | lb. of currants, and dry them before the 
fire ; mix them well with ^ lb. of bread crumbs, shred off | a 
lemon, 2 oz. of candied lemon peel. After being thoroughly 
mixed, put these into the batter, work till the whole is well incor- 
porated, adding flour if it is not sufficiently stiff. Let it stand 
twelve hours before boiling ; boil eight or ten hours. 

55. Biscuit Pudding. 

6 Albert biscuits, { lb. raisins, J lb. currants, J lb. sugar, spice, 
I glass spirits, 4 eggs, i mutchkin milk ; pound the biscuits, and 
mix them with the fruit and milk, and let it come to boil. Then 
cool, and mix the other ingredients, and steam three hours. 

56. Ground Rice Pudding. 

Put 4 oz. ground rice into a stew-pan, and by degrees stir in a 
pint and a half of milk ; set it on the fire, with lemon and a bit 
of cinnamon ; keep stirring it till it boils. Beat it to a smooth 
batter, then set it on the trivet, where it will simmer gently for a 
quarter of an hour ; then beat 3 eggs on a plate, stir them into the 
pudding with 2 oz. of sugar and nutmeg ; take out the cinnamon, 
stir it all well together ; fine a pudding mould with butter, and 
boil one hour. 

57. Apple Fritters. 

Cut the apples in thin round slices, with a hole in the middle ; 
dip them into sugar and cinnamon ; make a thin paste, with a 



22 FARE AND PHYSIC 

little salt, J of a small wine-glass of brandy ; mix it well with the 
white of I egg beaten thoroughly. Let the paste stand an hour 
before using it. 

58. Currant Fritters. 

Thicken ^ pint of ale with flour, add some currants; beat it up 
quick ; have some hot lard in a pan ; put a large spoon of the 
batter in at a time, which is sufficient to make one fritter. 

59. Almond Pudding. 

^ lb. blanched almonds pounded fine, 2 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, 
I spoon of cream, and sugar to taste. Bake in small patty pans, 
and serve with wine sauce. 

60. Almond Pudding. 

^ lb. sweet almonds, ^ lb. pounded sugar, 5 eggs, i lemon 
grated. The almonds to be pounded and sifted, after being 
blanched; beat up i whole egg and the yolks of 3 with the 
lemon peel for quarter of an hour ; beat the whites alone till stiff, 
and then mix altogether ; pour into a greased mould, and steam 
one hour. A few bitter almonds may be added if liked. 

61. Citron Pudding. 

f a pint of new milk, i spoonful flour, 2 oz. sugar, and some 
nutmeg ; mix them with the yolks of 3 eggs ; put the mixture in 
teacups, and stick in 2 oz. citron, cut in thin slices. Bake in a 
quick oven, and turn them out. 

62. Celestial Pudding. 

^ a pint good milk, 2 oz. butter, 3 tablespoonfuls ground rice, 
3 oz. white sugar, the peel of a lemon cut fine and stewed for half an 
hour ; then add i egg and the yolks of 3 ; whisk the whites to a 
froth, mix them together ; put 3 tablespoonfuls white sugar into 
your mould, set it on the hot plate, and keep stirring it till it is a 
light brown, and steam three-quarters of an hour ; then put in all 
the ingredients, and keep stirring till the sugar and butter are 
quite dissolved. Serve with brandy sauce. 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 23 



63. Boiled Rice Pudding. 

^ lb. whole rice boiled in i^ pint of milk with 2 oz. of beef 
suet chopped fine; let it boil till it becomes so thick you can 
only just move a spoon in it (be careful it does not burn); add the 
yolks of 4 eggs, mix altogether ; add some chopped almonds, and 
sweeten to taste. Boil one and a-half hour in a mould or basin. 



64. Hall Pudding. 

Cut some slices of white bread in pieces about four inches long 
and two wide, steep them in milk or cream, and fry a light brown ; 
make a sauce as follows — |- pint cream, the yolks of two eggs and 
a glass of white wine, sugar to taste, stir one way till as thick as 
custard ; lay the bread in a dish, and pour the sauce over it. 

65. Cocoanut Pudding, 

Melt together, over a slow fire, 2 oz. fresh butter and 4 oz. 
pounded sugar; pour them out when they have boiled for a 
couple of minutes ; let them cool, and mix with them 2 oz. of 
freshly grated cocoanut, i oz. citron cut small, a grated rind of ^ 
a large lemon, and 4 eggs ; when these have been well beaten 
together, add the strained juice of |- a lemon ; put the mixture 
into buttered pudding cups; bake half an hour in a moderate 
oven. The same ingredients may be made into a larger pudding, 
and longer baked. 

66. Syrup Pudding. 

i lb. flour, I- lb. golden syrup, J lb. suet chopped fine, the 
juice and rind of a lemon, 2 tablespoonfuls milk, 2 eggs well 
beaten, and ^ teaspoonful baking powder ; boil four hours. 

67. Eve's Pudding. 

J lb. bread crumbs, i lb. suet chopped fine, J lb. apples 
chopped fine, ^ lb. currants, the grated rind of half a lemon, 
and 4 eggs well beaten. Boil three hours. 



24 FARE AND PHYSIC 



68. Snow Pudding. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour, 2 tablespoonfuls arrowroot, 3 well-beaten 
eggs, I tumbler of milk, sugar to taste ; boil the milk, thicken it, 
let cool a little, then add eggs and sugar. Butter a mould, strew 
with sugar; put in and steam three-quarters of an hour. Turn 
out and serve with hot jam or marmalade on the top. 

69. Sponge Pudding. 

3 eggs and their weight in dripping, 2 tablespoonfuls of sifted 
sugar ; beat them lip till they are a thick cream ; add gradually 
a few currants and flour until the whole forms a stiff paste. Bake 
in cups for half an hour. 

70. Lemon Pudding. 

The yolks of 6 eggs, 4 oz. sifted sugar, the grated rind of 
2 lemons ; beat them well together to a solid froth ; beat the 
whites separately till stiff; add the juice of i lemon and mix all 
together. Bake in a pie-dish for fifteen minutes. 

71. Boiled Macaroni Pudding. 

1^ oz. macaroni, 3 eggs, 2 breakfast cups milk, i tablespoon- 
ful marmalade, sugar to taste, a few raisins to decorate top of 
mould ; soak the macaroni in water about three hours, pour off 
water ; boil the macaroni in the milk till quite soft ; butter the 
mould, slightly sprinkle with sugar, then stick the raisins all over 
it. Have the eggs well beaten. Put all the ingredients into the 
mould and boil one and a-half hour. 

72. Mysterious Pudding. 

2 eggs, flour, butter, pounded sugar, each of the weight of 2 
eggs ; beat the yolks and whites separately ; add the grated rind 
of a lemon and some of the juice. When all is well mixed add 
the whites and stir all well together, adding one teaspoonful 
baking powder. Steam one hour in a buttered mould. Pour 
heated red currant jelly over when ready to serve. 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 25 



73. Queen of Puddings. 

I J lb. bread crumbs, 6 oz. butter, 4 eggs, 2 lemons, ^ lb. 
coarse sugar, i quart sweet milk ; grate the bread into a pudding 
dish ; break the butter into small bits among the bread ; beat the 
yolks with the coarse sugar and juice of i lemon ; boil the milk 
with the rind of i lemon, and pour over the yolks and sugar; 
bake all three-quarters of an hour ; beat the whites with ^ lb. iine 
white sugar and the juice of other lemon. When the pudding is 
taken out of the oven, spread over a layer of jam, then the white 
of an egg, and place in oven till set. 

74. Wine Froth Sauce. 

2 eggs, 6 oz. white sugar, a little cinnamon, rind of 1 lemon ; 
rub the lemon rind over the sugar ; then beat all the ingredients 
well with a whisk before the fire ; add ^ pint white wine and same 
of water; place on the fire and keep on whisking till it is a thick 
froth and just comes to the boil, then remove the cinnamon and 
pour over the pudding. 

75. Bakewell Pudding. 

Line a dish with thin puff paste, spread a layer of raspberry 
jam one inch thick in the bottom ; beat up the yolks of 4 eggs 
with the whites of 2 ; ^ lb. pounded sugar, ^ lb. butter melted, 
juice of the whole and rind of half lemon. Place this mixture 
over the jam, and bake half an hour in a moderate oven. 

76. Preserve and Custard Pudding. 

Put preserve at the bottom of a pie-dish, and grated bread 
crumbs over that till f inch thick. Boil an English quart of milk 
and pour it over 4 beat eggs sweetened; pour this gently over 
the bread crumbs, and bake twenty minutes. 

77. Vermicelli Pudding. 

I breakfast cup vermicelli, 2 tablespoonfuls marmalade, J lb. 
stoned raisins, 2 oz. moist sugar, 3 eggs, ^ pint boiling milk. 
Pour the milk boiling over the vermicelli, let it stand ten minutes 



26 FARE AND PHYSIC 



covered, then mix the other ingredients; beat the eggs, stir all 
together. Boil in a greased mould two hours. Serve with a 
custard sauce. 

78. Vegetable Marrow Pudding. 

Boil vegetable marrow and rub through a sieve, then add i oz. 
butter, cup of cream, rind and juice of i lemon, 3 eggs, and sugar 
to taste. Line a pudding dish with paste, pour in the mixture, 
and bake in a moderate oven. This pudding may be made with 
2 or 3 stewed apples instead of the marrow. 

79. Canary Pudding. 

3 eggs and their weight in butter and sugar, the weight of 2 
in flour, i lemon rind. Melt the butter, stir to this the sugar and 
finely-minced lemon ; dredge in the flour, keeping the mixture 
well stirred ; whisk the eggs, and add to the pudding ; beat well. 
Pour into a greased mould, and boil two hours. 

80. Sauce. 

I glass sherry, i egg, a little white sugar ; whisk well together, 
set in a saucepan, but do not allow it to boil. Keep whisking till 
frothed, and pour over the pudding. 

81. Sambayou (Italian). 

The yolks of 3 eggs, a large glassful of white wine (or, if pre- 
ferred, rum may be used), 2 oz. white sugar ; stir all together in a 
saucepan over a slow fire with a whisk, and continue till the 
mixture thickens. Add the whites, beaten to a stiff froth, after 
removing from the fire, and serve hot in custard glasses. 

82. Glenfarg Pudding. 

Weigh what number of eggs are necessary for the size of the 
pudding ; take the same weight of sugar, flour, and fresh butter. 
When well mixed, flavour according to taste. Put it into a 
covered mould, and steam as long as necessary. 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 27 

83. Christmas Pudding. 

Beat 8 oz. butter with 8 oz. pounded sugar together until 
creamy ; add 4 eggs, beating each one in separately. Now mix 
in 8 oz. stoned and minced raisins, 8 oz. picked sultanas, 4 oz. 
finely-shredded mixed candied peel, ^ a nutmeg grated, a tea- 
spoonful ground cinnamon, the grated peel of a lemon, 2 oz. 
ground almonds, a gill of brandy, and 8 oz. bread crumbs. Put 
the mixture into a greased pudding mould, one which has a close 
cover, and steam for six hours. Turn out, and pour the following 
sauce round : whisk the yolks of 2 eggs with 2 oz. sugar and a 
wine glass of sherry in a small stew-pan over the fire until thick 
and frothy. 

84. Chestnut Pie. 

Scald the chestnuts and remove the skins; blanch some 
almonds; pare, core, and quarter some apples; put some fresh 
butter in the bottom of a dish, then put a layer of chestnuts, 
apples, and almonds alternately till the whole is exhausted; 
strew sugar, cut citron and orange peel between each layer;. put 
some more fresh butter on top, and cover with paste. 

85. Chestnut Pudding. 

Roast the chestnuts well, peel and place them in a baking 
dish ; mix 4 oz. brown sugar in a large cup of water, add the 
juice of a lemon, pour the mixture over the chestnuts, and bake 
ten to fifteen minutes. The dish should be lined with puff paste. 



COLD SWEETS. 



COLD SWEETS. 



86. Excellent Cream. 

Put into the dish you intend to send to table 3 spoonfuls of 
lemon juice with a little of the peel grated, some apricots or any 
sweet you like to cut small ; take a pint of cream with J oz. of 
isinglass dissolved and strained in milk, and i oz. of sweet 
almonds pounded ; boil it just up and put it into a dish and stir 
it till nearly cold ; then pour it over the apricots, and, when cold, 
stick almonds over it. It is best to make it the day before it is 
wanted. 

87. Charlotte a la Creme. 

Line your shape with fresh finger biscuits made with a good 
deal of sugar ; make less than half a shapeful of very rich custard 
seasoned to taste with Vanilla or any other sort of seasoning, and 
with ^ oz. of isinglass boiled in milk ; whip a shape of very rich 
cream seasoning also with a little lemon juice and brandy and 
sugar to taste. When the custard is getting cold, mix it with 
the cream, continuing to whip both together for some time ; then 
pour it carefully into the mould ; set it in ice or cold water till 
required. It cannot be too cold. 

N.B. — The white of an egg accelerates the whipping of 
cream. 

88. Lemon Cream (without Cream). 

Pare 4 lemons very thin; put the peel with 14 large table- 
spoonfuls of water with a little cinnamon, mace, and a bay leaf, 
and 3 little almonds ; boil it very slowly for some time ; squeeze 
the juice of the lemons on 8 oz. of fine pounded sugar ; beat well 
the yolks of 7 eggs and 5 of the whites together, strain them 
through a fine sieve with 12 tablespoonfuls of the water; sweeten 
to taste ; put it in an enamelled saucepan and stir it one way over 
the fire till pretty thick and scalding — not boiling, or it will curdle 
— stir it more and steam for some time; then dish in glasses 
as custard. 



32 FARE AND PHYSIC 



89. Lemon Cream. 

Take ^ lb. of sugar and 2 lemons ; rub the rind of them with 
sugar and squeeze the juice of them on the sugar ; dissolve J oz. 
of isinglass in ^ pint of hot water ; mix them together ; break 3 
eggs, then beat them ; add i pint of cream or good milk ; stir all 
well together and put into a shape. 

90. Clear Lemon and Orange Creams. 

To make clear and. yellow lemon and orange creams, infuse the 
grate of 4 large lemons or oranges in ^ English pint of boiling 
water, covering it up close ; cut the fruit and squeeze them in it 
and boil it up with | lb. of loaf sugar ; mix in the whites of 6 eggs 
(well beat) by degrees to prevent it curdling ; set it on a clear fire, 
stirring it one way till scalding hot ; put it into glasses ; this is the 
clear cream. The yellow cream is made in the same way, with 
the addition of the yolks of 2 eggs mixed in the above ingredients, 
after being removed from the fire. 

91. Swedish Cream. 

Rub some pieces of lump sugar till you get all the grate ; then 
squeeze a lemon on the sugar and add about 2 small teacupfuls of 
wine — Marsala for preference with a little water, but it is better 
with I glass of Madeira; beat 6 yolks and 3 whites and mix 
with the above, stirring well ; add more sugar or wine to taste ; 
then pour into a brass pan, stir till nearly boiling ; have ready a 
whisk and whisk it constantly and quickly upon the fire for a few 
minutes till it is thick, then pour into a crystal dish or custard 
glasses. To be eaten cold. 

92. Italian Cream. 

Take a Scotch pint of sweet cream, the juice of 2 lemons, 4 oz" 
of sifted sugar ; whip it up till it turns thick ; then put it in a dish 
with holes in it to drip. Strawberry or raspberry cream may be 
made in the same way with fruit syrup; make it one day in 
summer and two days in winter previous to using. 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 33 

93. Red Currant Cream. 

Beat the white of an egg to a snow and mix in 2 tablespoonfuls 
of red currant jelly (take care that no raspberry juice is in the jelly, 
as it prevents the cream from rising) ; whisk it constantly one way 
till it is of a fine pink colour and so thick that it will not drop in 
figures from the whisk. This is a beautiful garnish for all milk or 
cream dishes. 

94. Apple Cream. 

Boil 12 large apples in water till soft; take off the peel and 
press the pulp through a hair sieve upon ^ lb. of loaf sugar ; whip 
the whites of 2 eggs ; add them to the apples and beat all together 
till it becomes very stiff and looks quite white. Serve it heaped 
on a dish. 

95. Wine Cream. 

A pint of cream, a pint of wine, ^ lb. loaf sugar, and the juice 
of a large lemon ; whisk it half an hour ; put it into sixteen glasses 
which it will pile full enough to be genteel. 

96. Blanched Cream. 

Take a quart of the thickest cream that can be got ; sweeten 
with fine sugar and orange flower water; boil it, and beat the 
whites of 20 eggs with a little cream ; strain it when the cream is 
on the boil ; put in the eggs, stirring it well till it thickens ; then 
take it up and strain it again through a hair sieve ; beat it well 
with a spoon till it is cold and put in a dish. 

97. Solid Raspberry Cream. 

Boil I oz. of isinglass in a very little water ; when dissolved, 
strain it while warm into a pint of cream ; warm J a pint rasp- 
berry jelly, and put it all together into a pan, and whisk it till it be- 
comes thick ; then put in a mould. Lay a piece of muslin in the 
mould before you put in the cream. 

98. Jenny Lind Cream. 

^ a mutchkin cream switched, ^ lb. ground rice boiled in 
milk, I oz. isinglass sweetened with loaf sugar. 

c 



34 FARE AND PHYSIC 

99. Blanc Mange — Italian Cream. 

Wash J lb. of the best whole rice, drain on a hair sieve, put in 
a clean saucepan a quart cold new milk, pour on it ; stir them 
well together ; place near the fire to swell the rice very gradually ; 
then simmer as gently as possible for half an hour until it begins 
to be quite tender ; then mix in it 2 oz. fresh butter and 2-^ oz. 
pounded sugar, and let it continue to simmer softly until it is dry 
and perfectly tender. Before it is taken from the fire, scrape into 
it the outside of loaf sugar that has been rubbed upon the rind of 
a lemon. 

100. Tapioca Cream. 

Put 3 tablespoonfuls of tapioca overnight in enough water to 
cover it ; in the morning boil i quart of milk with the tapioca ; 
add f of a cup of sugar, a little salt, and the beaten yolks of 4 
eggs ; stir them into the mixture and remove from the fire ; when 
cold, put on the top the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth, with 
fine sifted sugar. Flavour to taste. 

loi. Sago Jelly. 

A small teacup of sago boiled in water till dissolved and 
thick ; add a quart bottle of prepared fruit juice or rhubarb juicct 
bring it to the boil ; put it into small shapes or cups rinsed in cold 
water. If made the night before using it will stand better, but it 
eats better if it scarcely keeps the shape at all. For company, if 
it falls when dished, a little whipped cream should be put over it. 
Rhubarb must be stewed and strained when used for this, and 
plenty of sugar added, also some colouring cochineal. 

102. Orange Sponge. 

I J oz. isinglass dissolved in a pint of water; strain it through 
a sieve ; mix with it the juice of 6 oranges and a little lemon, 
sugar to taste ; whisk it well together till it looks like sponge, then 
put in a mould. 

103. Apricot Cheese. 

Take a few ripe apricots and stone them ; throw them into a 
mortar, pound them with a little sugar ; when well pounded rub 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 35 

them through a sieve ; whip a pint of thick cream well and mix it 
with the apricots ; mix a little melted isinglass with the purde ; taste 
if the cream be sweet enough ; continue to whip till you perceive 
that the isinglass is well mixed, then put it in the mould. In 
winter you can take a pot of apricot marmalade and rub it through 
a hair sieve, with a little pounded sugar, whipped cream, and 
melted isinglass ; make the same as above. Raspberries and 
strawberries can be used the same way as apricots. 

104. French Blanc Mange. 

A pint of calf s foot jelly, i pint of cream {not rich) ; boil the 
cream with lemon peel, sugar, and a bay leaf ; when boiling, pour 
it into the jelly, which will quickly be dissolved ; stir until nearly 
cold ; turn over and pour into the mould ; colour it with saffron 
steeped in a little water ; put a drop or more in to colour it. A 
custard poured over is a great improvement. 

105. Clear Rice Shape. 

Dissolve I lb. sugar in an English pint and a half of water ; 
stir in J lb. rice flour, put it on the fire, stir it with a silver spoon 
constantly till it boils five minutes ; add the white of i egg well 
beat, stir, and boil for one minute ; season with lo drops of essence 
of bitter almonds ; dip your shape in cold water, put in the rice ; 
when cold, turn out. Garnish with red currant jelly. 

106. Gateau a la Madeleine. 

Take the same weight of butter, flour, sugar, and eggs (6 eggs 
are generally enough) ; melt the butter in a pan, add the flour, 
sugar, and yolks of the eggs, beat it all well together for some 
time (more than half an hour), then add the whites of the eggs 
after they have been beaten to a strong froth. Prepare some 
sponge cake moulds, fill half full, so as to give them room to 
rise ; bake in a moderate oven. When done, turn them out on a 
clean sheet of paper, and put them in the oven again for a few 
minutes ; empty them, and fill one-half with Vanilla cream or any 
kind you choose, and the other half with preserves of different 
sorts. 



36 FARE AND PHYSIC 



107. Rice Blanc Mange. 

^ lb. ground rice, i quart milk, 2 oz. sugar, a few bitter 
almonds, and a little rose water. This mixture must be con- 
stantly stirred while it is boiling, and allowed to boil at least 
twenty minutes. 

108. Bavaroise of Strawberries. 

Pick 2 lb. fine red strawberries, which put into a basin with 
I lb. pounded sugar; let them remain half an hour, then rub 
them through a sieve ; add i oz. isinglass, previously dissolved 
in 2 wine-glasses of water boiled and passed through a sieve ; set 
the whole upon ice, stirring until it begins to settle, when stir in 
a pint of cream well whipped, pour it into the mould, which keep 
upon the ice till set. When wanted, dip it into warm water and 
turn it upon your dish. Apples and pears may be served in the 
same way. 

109^ Gateau de Pommes. 

To i^ lb. lump sugar put i pint water, and let it boil till it 
becomes sugar again ; then add 2 lb. apples when pared, cut, and 
cored, and the peel of a large lemon cut thin ; should the apples 
not be suflficiently acid, add the whole juice of the lemon. Boil 
all together till quite stiff; put into moulds, and, when cold, it 
will turn out. Serve either alone or with whipped cream or 
custard over it. 

110. Orange Jelly. 

To the juice of 10 oranges (strained) add ^ lb. pounded sugar, 
I oz. isinglass, previously dissolved in hot water. Beat all well 
together until it begins to thicken, then put it into a shape or 
mould. It will turn out in six hours. 

111. A Hen's Nest. 

Take 7 eggs, make a good-sized hole at one end, and at the 
other put merely a prick hole; blow out the inside, soak the 
shells in cold water, then fill them with blanc mange slightly 
coloured with saffron, and leave till they are wanted (when 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 37 

required, dip them into warm water and pick off the shells); 
boil a teacupful of ground rice in some milk, sweeten, and put 
lemon juice and lemon peel to it ; make a wall of this round the 
dish, cover with whipped cream same as for trifle, then lay strips 
of jelly across and across to look like straws over this wall, and 
lay the eggs on the centre. 

112. Raspberry Sponge. 

Dissolve f oz. isinglass in a very little water, add ij pint 
new milk mixed with cream, ^ pint raspberry jelly, and the juice 
of a lemon ; whisk the whole well together one way until it looks 
like sponge, put in a mould, and turn out next day. 

113. Iced Cabinet Pudding. 

Have ready prepared, rather stale, a sponge cake, which cut 
into slices ^ inch thick, and rather smaller than the mould you 
intend making the pudding in ; soak them well with Noyeau and 
brandy, then lay some preserved dried cherries at the bottom of 
the mould with a few whole ratafias ; lay the cake, cherries, and 
ratafias in alternate layers till the mould is three-parts full ; then 
have ready a quart of custard, pour it lukewarm into the mould, 
which close and bury in ice ; let it remain at least two hours. 
When dished, pour over it about ^ pint of custard, which keep 
previously on ice. 

114. Iced Custard Pudding. 

Take | pint good cream, bring it through the boil; take 6 
yolks and 2 whites of eggs, put them into a basin with some 
brown sugar, beat well ; pour over the boiling cream, stirring all 
the time; flavour to taste; pour the custard into mould, and 
cover it with a piece of paper next the pudding; steam for an hour, 
let it cool. Immerse the mould in ice for about four hours, and 
serve with apple or red currant jelly round it. 

115. Oxfoot Jelly. 

Take 2 ox feet, well cleaned ; boil them in 4 quarts of water 
till reduced to 2 quarts ; when cold, remove the oil and fat from 



38 FARE AND PHYSIC 



the top of the jelly; strain the oil, which is then ready for use. 
The jelly is run through a flannel bag, and flavoured to taste. 
The great point in having the oil good and sweet is to get the 
heels of as old an animal as possible, fresh killed. 

Another Way. — Bpil to a jelly, cool, and remove the fat (oil); 
melt the jelly, and mix with it the yolk of an egg, well beaten; 
season with lemon, cinnamon, or any other seasoning ; add sugar 
to taste. 

Another Way. — Mix the jelly with cream, sugar, and season 
as above; when cold, turn it out of the shape; stir till nearly 
cold to prevent sediment. 

ii6. Chicken Jelly. 

When the fowl is cleaned, hack or chop it all up, put into a 
jar, feet as well ; add salt, and enough water to cover. Set the 
jar in a pan, and simmer from eight to ten hours. Put it through 
a sieve, and it should be firm enough to cut with a knife. 

117. Gold Fish in Jelly. 

Fill 2 or 3 fish moulds with blanc mange, and turn them out 
when set ; cover with gold leaf, and allow them to stand an hour ; 
then take a mould and pour in a little clear jelly, lay in the fish 
back downwards, and set them with a little more jelly. When 
cold, fill up the mould with jelly ; turn out on a crystal dish. 

118. Curds. 

Put 2 or 3 pints new milk in a pan; beat 2 or 3 eggs 
well, and mix i cupful (if old, which is sour) or 2 of new butter- 
milk with the eggs ; add all to the milk in the pan, stir well till it 
boils, let it stand to cool five minutes ; take the curds out with a 
slice, put them on a sieve to drain, then into your mould ; turn 
out and serve with fruit or cream round the dish. Partly cream 
may be used, or skim milk; if all skim milk is used, add another 
egg, or the curd is tough. 

Note.—\^ is best to use a mould which has little holes in it, so 
that the milk may drain out if any is left after the curds are put 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 39 



into the mould, but a common mould will do if there is not 
another. 

119. Leche Creme— Spanish Sweet. 

Beat up 3 eggs, leaving out 2 whites, and add to them grad- 
ually I J pint milk; then mix very carefully and smoothly 4 table- 
spoonfuls fine flour and 2 oz. finely powdered sugar, with grated 
lemon peel to flavour. Boil these ingredients over a slow fire to 
prevent burning until the flour is quite dissolved. 

Prepare a dish with f lb. ratafia biscuits at the bottom, with a 
glass of Cognac or other liqueur poured over them ; when the cream 
is sufficiently boiled, pour through a strainer over the biscuits. 
Should be served cold with either cinnamon dusted over or a 
little jam. 

120. Spanish Sweet. 

To an ordinary sized cocoanut when pounded quite fine add 
the white of a stiffly beaten egg, sifted sugar, and a few drops of 
rose water to taste ; make it into little sugar loaves, and set it in 
the oven for a few minutes. It must not colour and, while crisp 
outside, should be soft in the centre. 

121. Creme de Rhubarbe (Norwegian). 

Put 4^ lb. rhubarb into a saucepan and simmer till it is quite 
mashed ; put into a cloth and press out all the juice ; set the juice 
on the fire with ^ lb. sugar and 6 oz. corn flour or arrowroot ; let 
it simmer till the flour is cooked, about ten minutes ; take it off the 
fire, and pour into cups or moulds previously dipped in cold water ; 
to be served with sugar and custard. The proportions are — i 
pint juice to 2 oz. corn flour, or, if liked stiffer, more flour can be 
used. The mould may be decorated with blanched almonds. 
The juice of raspberries or currants does equally well. 



BREAD, SCONE, AND CAKE BAKING. 



BREAD, SCONE, AND CAKE BAKING. 



122. Recipe for Barm. 

To every Scotch pint of water put a good handful of hops 
and I tablespoonful of salt ; stir and boil slowly without a cover 
for twenty minutes. Put i lb. malt into a stone jar, pour the 
boiling mixture upon the malt, and directly after i mutchkin of 
cold water ; cover it, and let it stand for three hours ; strain and 
stir in 2 handfuls of flour ; put into a stone bottle with a breakfast- 
cupful of the former yeast ; let it stand by the fire about twenty- 
eight hours. Keep in a cool place. 

123. Bread (i). 

Put 10 lb. of flour into a jar or tub, 3 handfuls of dried salt 
are added, and nearly 2 mutchkins of the yeast after stirring it 
well ; then add cold water, and mix the whole with the hand to 
the proper thickness, which only a person accustomed to bake 
can know; place the jar on the kitchen hearth with the meat 
screen behind it ; do all this at ten o'clock at night. The next 
morning at five o'clock knead in 10 lb. more of the flour, making 
20 lb. in all ; the loaves must be stiffer in the dough than the 
pan loaves. A piece of lard or butter the size of a bean must be 
kneaded into each loaf or pound of dough. Rolls can be made of 
the same plaited or round and glazed with an egg. If liked, a 
few currants in them 'and dusted with sugar. 

124. Bread (2). 

Take i Scotch pint warm water, i teacup of barm, 6 large 
potatoes boiled and mashed, i handful salt ; mix all well together 
with as much flour as will make it like batter, then let it stand 
five hours, then work in the rest of the flour in the trough ; let it 
stand two hours, then make up your loaves, and let them stand to 
rise an hour or more as you see they require it ; then put it into the 
oven and bake an hour, more or less, as you see best according to 
size. A moderate heat is best for bread, rather quick for paste or 
bath biscuit. 



44 FARE AND PHYSIC 



125. Home-made Bread (3). 

I stone flour, 2 oz. yeast, 2 quarts warm milk ; let the yeast 
brew in a little warm water, with i teaspoonful of sugar and i of 
flour ; cover yeast with a plate. Put the flour in an earthenware 
pan, and pour the yeast into the centre; knead it well in, adding the 
warm milk as required ; the dough must be kneaded till it leaves 
off sticking to the hand ; when kneaded, let it stand one hour 
before the fire; put the dough in tins, and let it stand twenty 
minutes. Bake for one hour, or less, according to the oven. 

126. Home-made Bread (4). 

Put I stone flour, mixed with one tablespoonful of salt, into a 
large bowl or kneading trough ; dilute 3 oz. German yeast with 
suflScient cold water to make it smooth. Make a hollow in the 
centre of the flour, and pour in the yeast; add about i quart 
warm water or milk and water, and work it into a thick batter 
with the surrounding flour. Sprinkle a little flour over the top, 
set it in a warm place for one hour or one and a-half hour to rise, 
then knead it up with as much more warm water as will render it 
firm and smooth without being stiff; let it rise another hour, 
and then divide into loaves. Butter the tins slightly, and bake 
the bread in a well-heated oven. 

127. Vienna Bread. 

I lb. flour, I oz. butter, i egg, J pint milk, i teaspoonful 
castor sugar, ^ oz. German yeast; sieve the flour into a basin, 
with pinch of salt and butter ; heat the milk till lukewarm ; mix 
yeast with sugar until creamy ; beat up egg and add to the milk, 
pour on to the yeast ; mix well ; strain, and pour on to the flour. 
Mix quickly with the hand, cover the basin with a cloth, and set 
in a warm place to rise two hours ; then knead and make into 
shapes, horse-shoes, twists, &c. Grease and flour a tin, on which 
place the rolls ; set in a warm place to rise. Bake in a quick 
oven ten to fifteen minutes ; brush over while hot with a glaze of 
milk and sugar. 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 45 



128. Unfermented Bread. 

8 tablespoonfuls flour, i teaspoonful baking powder, pinch of 
salt, milk to moisten ; mix all the dry ingredients in a basin, pour 
in milk, and turn the dough on to a floured board. Shape into 
twists, rolls, or plaits, and bake fifteen to twenty minutes in a hot 
oven. 

129. Egg Bread. 

Beat up 3 eggs, and add to them 2 breakfastcupfuls milk; 
now add, while still beating, 2 cupfuls yellow meal (Indian meal), 
I cupful cold boiled rice, and i tablespoonful melted butter ; 
beat briskly for three minutes, then add 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. Pour all into a shallow pan, and bake in a brisk oven. 

130. Buttermilk Bread. 

1 lb. flour, ^ teaspoonful carbonate of soda, | teaspoonful 
cream of tartar, about J pint sour buttermilk ; mix all the dry 
ingredients thoroughly ; make into a dough with the buttermilk. 
Make up the dough into a loaf, score across, and bake three- 
quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. 

131. Currant Loaf. 

3 lb. flour, I tablespoonful salt, ^ lb. sugar, i oz. yeast, 
currants and peel ; mix all together (except the yeast) ; put it in 
a basin with i teaspoonful soft sugar and i pint lukewarm water ; 
mix it well. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, stir in the 
yeast, and set it at the fire to rise ; then take as much lukewarm 
water or milk as will make the whole into a soft dough, set it near 
the fire to rise for one hour, knead it well, put it into tins, and 
bake one hour in a hot oven. 

132. Wheaten Loaf. 

2 lb. wheaten meal, i dessertspoonful baking powder, i tea- 
spoonful salt, I pint new milk. Bake three-quarters of an hour 
on a flat tin. The oven must not be too hot. 



46 FARE AND PHYSIC 

133. French Rolls. 

Rub I oz. butter into i lb. flour, mix i egg beaten, a little 
yeast, and as much milk as will make the dough of a medium 
stiffness ; beat it well, but do not knead ; let it rise, and bake in 
tins. 

134. Muffins. 

I quart flour, i pint warm milk, i teaspoonful salt, J gill yeast ; 
mix at night, and heat until light. In the morning, drop the 
dough into buttered cups ; let them stand twenty minutes ; bake, 
and serve hot. The same mixture for crumpets, but made into a 
batter instead of dough, and baked in rings. 

135. Singing Hinnies. 

Make a paste with f lb. flour, J lb. butter or well clarified 
dripping, and i teaspoonful sugar (to which some people add ^ 
lb. well-washed and dried currants) ; moisten with water or butter- 
milk, and roll out about i| inch thick. Mark it out in rounds 
or squares, bake, divide at the markings, split with a fork, and 
butter, and serve hot. 

136. Greek Tea Cakes. 

Sift I lb. fine flour, and warm it slightly ; rub 3 oz. butter into 
it ; then add 2 oz. castor sugar (a little spice, if liked, and a tea- 
spoonful grated lemon peel), i dessertspoonful baking or egg 
powder, and i tablespoonful ground almonds. Mix to a light 
dough with J pint tepid milk, shape into buns, place on greased 
tins, and bake at once in a sharp oven. Brush over with egg 
and milk. 

137. Sally Lunn (i). 

Cream 2 oz. yeast with i oz. castor sugar ; then add i break- 
fastcupful of tepid water, and stir all together ; rub 2 oz. butter 
into 2 lb. flour ; make a well in the middle, and pour in the yeast 
and water ; mix with a wooden spoon to a light dough, and let it 
rise for two hours in a warm place ; take the dough at the end of 
this time and divide it into eight portions, handKng it very lightly ; 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 47 

place on a buttered sheet or, if preferred, into greased round tins ; 
let them rise again for twenty minutes or so ; then bake in a quick 
oven. When nearly done, brush the tops over with milk and egg, 
or milk and butter, to make them shiny. Tepid milk may be used 
instead of water to mix them with, if liked, and another 2 oz. 
of butter may be added if wanted richer. 

138. Sally Lunn (2). 

Mix together 2 teaspoonfuls baking soda and 4 cream of tartar ; 
then mix 2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar with 2 lb. fine flour ;. 
work 2 oz. butter into the flour ; add the soda and cream of tartar, 
and mix the whole to the consistency of thick batter with 4 well- 
beaten eggs stirred in 2 cupfuls of milk and a pinch of salt. Bake 
one hour in a well-buttered tin. 

139. Griddle Scones (i). 

Take 2 lb. first flour ; put in a basin with 2 teaspoonfuls cream 
of tartar and i of carbonate of soda ; rub this well into the dry 
flour ; then add enough old or new milk to make a soft dough ; 
mix with a knife. Turn the mixture on to a floured board and 
roll lightly till about one inch thick, cut with a round cutter, bake 
on a sharp heated griddle and serve hot. 

140. Griddle Scones (2). 

To ^ lb. fine oatmeal add i teaspoonful each of sugar and 
baking powder, and a good pinch of salt ; mix the sugar, meal, 
and baking powder ; beat into it enough skim milk or butter milk 
to make a light batter. Bake by spoonfuls either on a baking tin 
in the oven or on a griddle. 

141. Wafer Scones. 

^ lb. flour, pinch of salt, a little cream ; sieve the flour, add 
salt and mix with cream to a soft dough. Work it more than for 
ordinary scones, roll out as thin as possible, bake on floured 
griddle, and toast in front of the fire. 



48 FARE AND PHYSIC 



142. Scones Baked in the Oven. 

I J lb. flour, I teaspoonful carbonate of soda, i large teaspoon- 
ful cream of tartar, a lump of butter the size of an egg, i egg 
beaten up, ^ pint butter milk. Work in the butter and powders 
quickly with the hand, then stir all together lightly and roll as 
little as possible. 

143. Soda Scones. 

2 lb. flour, 2 oz. butter, ^ oz. carbonate of soda, ^ oz. tartaric 
acid ; mix with butter milk and fire on a griddle. 

144. Oatcake. 

Equal quantities of pinhead oatmeal and flour ; rub in a small 
piece of butter about the size of a walnut very thoroughly ; then 
add and mix in J a teaspoonful bi-carbonate of soda ; when this is 
done, wet with a little lukewarm milk and water, work into a fairly 
stiff" dough, then roll out with a corrugated wooden rolling-pin ; 
keep the edges from breaking, and roll it out fairly thin ; bake on 
a griddle one side only until shghtly brown ; take off" the fire and 
put on a flat tin above the fire to make it curl nicely. 

145. Cumberland Oatcakes. 

Take very fine oatmeal; mix with warm water after having 
added a pinch of salt, and same of carbonate of soda ; roll as thin 
as possible in a large sheet, turn by rolling it round the rolling-pin ; 
rub well on under side with oatmeal, and bake on a griddle. 

146. Gingerbread (i). 

1 lb. flour, J lb. sifted oatmeal, i lb. treacle, \ lb. butter 
melted and poured in hot, J lb. sugar, i teacupful milk, i tea- 
spoonful carbonate of soda, ginger, and cinnamon to taste, mixed 
with three eggs. 

147. Gingerbread (2). 

\ lb. sugar, \ lb. butter, \ lb. golden syrup, put in a pan and 
boil ; ^ lb. flour, i teaspoonful ground ginger, J teaspoonful soda ; 
beat 2 eggs well and add the boiling syrup to them, then the dry 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 49 

ingredients ; butter and paper a cake tin ; bake in a moderate 
oven one hour. 

148. Mrs B.'s Gingerbread. 

4 oz. butter, 4 oz. sugar, 8 oz. treacle, 2 eggs, 1 2 oz. flour, 4 oz. 
currants ; grate of half a lemon, milk or sour cream, small tea- 
spoonful baking soda, dessertspoonful ground ginger; rub the 
butter into the flour, mix in the other dry ingredients, add the 
treacle and eggs well beaten, and sufficient milk to make a nice 
dough. Bake in a rather slow oven. 2 tablespoonfuls of oatmeal 
is an improvement. 

149. Sponge Gingerbread. 

^ lb. moist sugar, break upon it 4 eggs, beat them together for 
a few minutes ; have ready ^ lb. butter and ^ lb. treacle melted 
together. Pour this while hot upon the eggs and sugar ; whisk 
till cold ; then add i lb. flour, i teaspoonful carbonate of soda, 
^ teaspoonful allspice, J teaspoonful ground ginger. Bake in 
little tins in a quick oven. 

150. Gingerbread. 

Rub a pat of butter into i lb. flour; mix 2 teaspoonfuls of 
carbonate of soda (well pounded), 3 teaspoonfiils of Jamaica 
pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls pounded cinnamon, a pinch of ginger, i lb. 
treacle. Bake in a moderate oven. 

151. Nuremberg Gingerbread. 

10 oz. flour, 6 oz. butter, 8 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. mixed peel, 
4 small eggs, 6 oz. almonds, 2 tablespoonfuls thin cream, ^ tea- 
spoonful carbonate of soda, i^ oz. mixed spice or J oz. each 
ground ginger, cinnamon, and cloves, i pinch salt; grease a 
shallow tin, and sprinkle on it chopped almonds ; rub the butter 
into the flour, and add shredded peel and almonds, sugar, spices ; 
mix and pour in the eggs, after having added the carbonate of 
soda (if necessary, a little milk) ; beat quickly, pour into the tin, 
and bake thirty minutes in a quick oven. 

D 



so FARE AND PHYSIC 

152. Belmont Gingerbread. 

2 lb. flour, 2 lb. treacle, f lb. moist sugar, | lb. butter, i^ oz. 
ground ginger, i oz. carraway seeds, | oz. ground allspice ; melt 
the butter in the oven along with the treacle for a few minutes ; 
then mix all the ingredients well together the day before you wish 
to make it ; then roll out the usual thickness ; bake in tins about 
ten minutes. 

153. White Gingerbread, 

f lb. flour, J lb. sugar (pounded and sifted fine), ^ lb. butter, 
3 tablespoonfuls sweet milk, 2 tablespoonfuls brandy, 2 table- 
spoonfuls grated ginger ; put the butter to melt in oven ; while 
that is being done, put the above-mentioned ingredients in the 
flour, last of all the butter ; mix all well together, and bake on a 
tin. A little Cayenne pepper is a great improvement. 

154. Mrs B.'s Chocolate Cake. 

4 oz. butter, 4 oz. sugar, 4 oz. chocolate, i oz. potato flour, 
I J oz. best flour, 3 eggs; beat yolks with the sugar, and the 
whites to a stiff' froth; beat butter and ground chocolate to a 
cream, add sugar and yolks and both kinds of flour ; mix whites 
in lightly ; flavour with Vanilla and shred almonds ; bake in a 
moderate oven. 

155. Soda Cake (i). 

Take 2 lb. flour; rub into it J lb. butter, J lb. sugar, i lb. 
currants, 3 oz. orange peel, 3 teaspoonfuls cinnamon, i English 
pint buttermilk, 2^ teaspoonfuls carbonate of soda ; mix all well 
together. The soda should be put in last, when the other things 
are well mixed. Bake one hour ; if large or small, you can judge. 

156. Soda Cake (2). 

I lb. flour, ^ lb. raisins, ^ lb. currants, \ lb. orange peel, id. 
worth of cinnamon, 6 oz. brown sugar, 6 oz. beat butter, i large 
teaspoonful carbonate of soda mixed in a little milk ; mix these 
well together, and add 3 gills of warm milk and ^ wineglassful of 
brandy. 



OF A PAST CENTURY. SI 

157. Seed Cake (i). 

I lb. flour, I lb. butter, i lb. sugar, 6 eggs, i lb. currants, 
\ lb. orange peel, i oz. carraway seeds, and essence of lemon. 

158. Seed Cake (2). 

3 lb. flour, J lb. sugar, 6 oz. butter, i oz. carraway seeds, 3 eggs. 

159. Vinegar Cake (i). 

6 eggs, ^ lb. butter beat to a cream, ^ mutchkin milk, i table- 
spoonful vinegar, ^ lb. currants, ^ teaspoonful carbonate of soda ; 
a quick oven. 

160. Vinegar Cake (2). 

Beat to a cream 6 oz. fresh butter ; add 8 oz. ground sugar ; 
beat for a short time, and drop in i egg; beat a few minutes; 
then another egg — and so on, till you have put in 4 ; mix together 
^ English pint new milk with ^ teaspoonful carbonate of soda and 
2 tablespoonfuls vinegar ; add i lb. flour and J lb. currants mixed 
together; then mix the whole ingredients together; put in a 
papered tin ; bake in a moderate oven one and a-half hour. 

161. Laconic Cake (i). 

^ lb. butter beat to a cream, a mutchkin of milk, 3 eggs, f lb. 
good flour, 2 oz. orange peel, ^ lb. raisins, 30 drops essence of 
lemon or cinnamon, 6 oz. sugar. 

162. Laconic Cake (2). 

I lb. flour, ^ lb. raisins cut small, J lb. brown sugar, J lb. 
fresh butter, 4 eggs, i large teaspoonful carbonate of soda, and 
a little milk; mix the soda and flour well together; mix all 
ingredients ; and bake in a slow oven two hours. 

163. Tea Cake (i). 

I lb. flour, 3 oz. butter, 1 2 oz. brown sugar, ^ lemon grated 
and juice, i teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little milk, 2 eggs 
well beaten ; mix all well together, and bake one hour. 

j\/,£, — A wineglassful of milk will be enough. 



52 FARE AND PHYSIC 



164. Tea Cake (2). 

13 oz. sugar, 8 oz. butter, 4 eggs, ^ oz. sal volatile, i lb. flour, 
18 drops essence of lemon ; bake in a slow oven. 

165. Sandwich Cake. 

Take a sponge or queen cake mixture, spread it on a tin an 
inch thick ; bake it, then split it and spread jam between the 
pieces ; join them together, then ice them or cut them any shape 
you like. 

166. Rout Cakes. 

The same mixture as above, baked on sheets and iced on the 
top; cut in square or round pieces and dusted with coloured 
sugar. 

167. A Plain Cake.' 

2 lb. flour, I lb. butter rubbed into the flour, i lb. sugar, i 
lb. currants, ^ pint buttermilk, 4 eggs, and 2 nutmegs ; mix 2 
teaspoonfuls of carbonate of soda in it, the last thing; also a glass 
of brandy. 

168, White Seed Cake. 

I lb. flour, ^ lb. flour of rice, i lb. sugar, | a nutmeg, J lb. 
currants, 2 oz. orange peel, a little essence of lemon, 9 eggs, a 
small bit of butter. Bake in a moderate oven. 

169. Very Rich Cake, 

i| lb. fine sugar, 3^ lb. currants, i lb. butter, 2 lb. flour, | 
lb. cut almonds, ^ lb. mixed spices, some grated lemon, 18 eggs, 
2 gills of brandy; paper your hoop (which will require to be 
large), pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven some 
hours. For use when cold. 

170. Tea Cake. 

I lb. flour, I teaspoonful baking powder, nearly a breakfast- 
cupful of milk, ^ lb. butter, I lb. raisins, J lb. sugar, 4 eggs well 
beat. Bake in rather a quick oven. 



OF A PAST CENTURY. S3 

171. Gold and Silver Cakes. 

These excellent cakes, which derive their name from their 
colour, should be made at the same time, as both the yolks and 
whites of the eggs will then be brought into requisition. Take i 
lb. flour dried and sifted, i lb. sugar, f lb. butter, the yolks of 14 
eggs, the rind of 2 lemons grated, and also the juice ; beat the 
butter and sugar to a cream, and add the yolks well beaten and 
strained; then add the lemon peel and flour and i teaspoonful of sal 
volatile dissolved in a little hot water ; beat it well, and just before 
putting into the oven add the lemon juice, beating it in thoroughly. 
Bake in square flat tins, ice it thickly, and cut it in square pieces. 
It looks pretty on a dish with the silver cake, which is made as 
follows : — I lb. sugar, | lb. flour dried and sifted, 6 oz. butter, a 
little mace and citron, and the whites of 14 eggs ; beat the sugar 
and butter to a cream ; add the whites, beaten to a stiff' froth, and 
then add the flour. Bake and serve as the preceding. 

172. Currant Lozenges or "Black Bob." 

Put a few pints of black currants in a brass pan, bruise them 
with your hand while on the fire as long as you can bear it, squeeze 
them through a hair sieve ; to every English pint give 4 oz. raw 
sugar, boil three-quarters of an hour, then pour on the bottom of 
saucers, set them before the fire to dry, and turn them every day 
for 4 days ; lay them between folds of paper and hang them up to 
dry ; they may either be kept whole or cut in lozenges and put 
into small spill boxes. They are excellent for colds and sore 
throats. 

173. Rice Cake. 

Whip 10 eggs for half an hour, add to them J lb. flour of rice, 
^ lb. sifted loaf sugar, the grated peel of 2 lemons ; mix this into 
I lb. fresh butter previously beat to a cream. Bake in a buttered 
tin. 

174. Old Maid's Cake. 

Beat up ^ lb. fresh butter with J lb. sugar for fifteen minutes, 
add I egg occasionally till you have added 5, have ^ lb. currants 
mixed with | lb. flour ; mix all together by stirring as little as 
possible. Bake in a moderate oven for two hours. 



54 FARE AND PHYSIC 



175. Madeira Cake. 

Beat i 2 oz. fresh butter to a cream, add 1 lb. sugar and i lb. 
ground sugar and beat for some time ; drop in 2 eggs, beat for a 
few minutes, again drop in 2 eggs, and so on till you have added 
12 ; mix in gently ij lb. flour (some add ij lb., with the addition 
of a little sal volatile), 10 drops essence of lemon, pour into a 
buttered tin ; dust a little fine ground sugar on the top, then 3 
thin slices of citron peel. Bake from an hour to an hour and a- 
half in a moderate oven. 

176. Sultana Cake. 

Take i lb. soft sugar, beat with | lb. butter for twenty minutes, 
add 2 eggs, and beat for some time, and so on till you have added 
12 ; then mix in gently i^ lb. flour with ij lb. Sultana raisins. 
Bake in a slow oven for two hours. 

177. Bachelor's Cake. 

Beat I lb. soft sugar with \ lb. butter for fifteen minutes ; mix 
3 teacupfuls of buttermilk with 3 teaspoonfuls carbonate of soda 
and I teaspoonful tartaric acid; add to the sugar and butter; 
mix in i lb. raisins with ij lb. flour, i oz. mixed spices, 2 oz. 
minced orange peel. Mix all together, and bake in moderate oven 
for two hours. 

178. Plum Cake (i). 

3 J lb. flour, 3 lb. butter, 3 lb. sugar; beat the sugar and 
butter to a cream with the hand in a brass pan ; take 3 doz. eggs, 
drop in 3 at a time, then beat a while ; add 3 more, till you have 
added 27 ; then take a handful of the flour, beat well for a few 
minutes, add other 3 eggs, a handful of flour, then other 3, and 
so on till the eggs are all in ; a little saffron to colour it ; take 4J 
lb. currants, J lb. Sultana raisins, 2^ lb. orange peel, but in good 
thick strips, a handful of carraway seeds, i tumblerful new milk. 
This is Bride's Cake, and a very rich cake. 

179. Plum Cake (2), 

^ lb. butter beat to a cream, then add i lb. sugar, the yolks of 
5 eggs (beat the whites stiffly and also add), ij lb. flour, a little 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 55 

ground rice, i teacupful milk (buttermilk is best), with a small 
teaspoonful carbonate of soda stirred into it, i J lb. Sultana raisins, 
I lb. orange peel. Not too quick an oven. 

i8o. Rich Plum Cake. 

2 lb. currants, i lb. butter, i lb. flour, i lb. moist sugar, ^ lb. 
candied lemon peel, J lb. citron, 2 oz. sweet almonds, J oz. 
cinnamon, 8 eggs, a little carbonate of soda ; mix the ingredients 
well together. Bake in a slow oven five hours, and pour a small 
wine-glass of brandy over the cake when taken from the oven while 
still hot. 

181. Snow Cake (i). 

f lb. fresh butter beaten to a cream, J lb. sifted sugar, i lb. 
potato flour, 2 eggs and white of another, 30 drops lemon essence. 
The sugar and flour must be heated. Bake in a slow oven. 

182. Snow Cake (2). 

^ lb. arrowroot, ^ lb. castor sugar, ^ lb. salt butter, 3 whites 
of eggs, I teaspoonful flour and i of sugar shaken over the tin 
after greasing. Cream the butter and sugar, beat the whites to a 
stiff froth, add the arrowroot to the butter and sugar, lastly the 
whites ; mix together with an iron spoon. Beat fifteen to twenty 
minutes. Bake one hour in a moderate oven ; the tin should be 
only three-parts full. 

183. Sponge Cake. 

I lb. flour, 1 1 lb. sugar, 12 eggs; dissolve the sugar with i 
teacupful of water ; stir over the fire till it boils (some approve of 
five minutes good boiling as an improvement) ; break the eggs, 
pour over them the boiling sugar, and whisk for twenty minutes ; 
add some drops of lemon flavouring, then the flour gradually. 
Paper the tin without buttering it. 

184. Simple Currant Bun. 

I lb. flour, ^ lb. butter, J lb. sugar, J lb. raisins, -J lb. currants, 
I small teaspoonful carbonate of soda, 3 eggs ; break the butter 
well into the flour, then add the fruit ; dissolve the soda in a little 



56 FARE AND PHYSIC 

water ; have ready some warm milk, into which mix the eggs, and 
mix all together. Some candied peel or citron is an improve- 
ment. Bake three-quarters of an hour. This quantity is sufficient 
for two cakes. 

185. Cake without Eggs. 

I lb. flour, J lb. currants, \ lb. ground rice, ^ lb. butter, ^ lb. 
brown sugar, a half-mutchkin and the half of a half-mutchkin of 
new milk, i teaspoonful carbonate of soda. Season with ratafia 
and orange peel. Butter the tin. 

186. Miss Wilson's Cake. 

I lb. butter beat to a cream ; add 2 lb. brown sugar, 1 2 eggs 
well beaten, | oz. carraway seeds, ^ oz. cinnamon, i nutmeg, 2 
spoonfuls barm (heated), i cup cream, i glass brandy, 2| lb. 
flour, i^ lb. currants. Beat the above ingredients well together 
before they are put into the tin to bake. 

187. Sponge for Sweet Sandwiches. 

The weight of 2 eggs in flour, the same of sugar ; beat the 
eggs and sugar for fifteen minutes; pour on a buttered- Yorkshire 
pudding-dish. Cut in pieces to taste. 

188. Shrewsbury Cakes (i). 

Rub i^ lb. flour into i lb. fresh butter, i lb. sugar; make it 
into paste with J gill cream and i egg ; let it lie half an hour, roll 
out thin, cut in small cakes 3 inches thick. Bake in moderate 
oven. 

189. Rich Cheese Cakes (i). 

Take 8 eggs, beat them up with ^ lb. sugar ; add | lb. rough 
ground rice, about ^ oz. bitter almonds well cut, and some lemon 
rind. After beating all this twenty minutes, add ^ lb. melted fresh 
butter ; mix all together ; butter the patty pans, and fill half full. 
The oven should be rather cool. Half the quantity may be made, 
but these cheese cakes keep well. 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 57 

190. Curd Cheese Cakes. 

3 chopins milk (prepared with rennet), ^ lb. sugar, 6 oz. 
currants, 6 oz. fresh butter broken in small pieces, not melted. 
Mix well with the hand ; cloves and cinnamon to give taste, and 
a handful of grated crumbs of bread ; 6 eggs, and a small tea- 
cupful of British brandy, with lemon peel steeped in it. Beat all 
well ; fire them a fair brown, and pile in tart pans (or a small 
ashet) for a top dish with thin paste in the pans. 

191. Crown Cakes. 

Take i lb. flour, 4 oz. best sugar, ^ oz. carraway seeds, 3 yolks 
of eggs, 4 oz. fresh butter, and i gill cream ; knead it till it is 
smooth and light, roll it out very thin, prick with a fork, cut out 
with a paste cutter, dredge a little flour on greased paper, lay the 
cakes on it, glaze with a beat egg, and bake a light brown. 

192. Rich Cheese Cakes (2). 

^ lb. ground rice, \ lb. butter beaten to a cream, 3 oz. pounded 
loaf sugar, the rind of one grated lemon, yolks of 4 eggs, all well 
mixed, a pinch of salt ; bake in tins. These will keep four weeks. 

193. Lemon Cheese Cakes. 

The rind and juice of 3 lemons and the yolks of 7 eggs, ^ lb. 
butter, I lb. sugar finely sifted. 

194. Small Cakes. 

i^ lb. flour, I lb. best crushed sugar, | lb. butter, 3 eggs, and 
flavour with Vanilla ; mix all together and knead weiU, then roll 
out; cut in shapes and bake in well-floured tins. When the 
cakes are ready, brush them over with a beaten up egg, and 
sprinkle with sugar and chopped almonds ; bake in a brisk oven. 

195. Glenearn Queen Cakes. 

i lb. flour, 6 oz. sugar, J lb. butter, 4 eggs, a few currants, 
a lump of sugar rubbed on a lemon, or the grated rind of a 
lemon, about i teaspoonful baking powder. 



S8 FARE AND PHYSIC 



196. Shanwell Rice Cakes. 

\ lb. flour, ^ lb. ground rice, ^ lb butter (fresh), 3 oz. lump 
sugar, juice of | a lemon, 2 eggs well beaten, a dessertspoonful of 
Borwick's baking powder ; bake about twenty minutes to half an 
hour ; oven not too quick. 

197. Sand Cake. 

Put ^ lb. castor sugar into a basin, beat with it the yolks 
of 8 eggs, add ^ lb. liquid butter, a little grated lemon peel, the 
whisked whites of 6 eggs, and J lb. flour ; mix in each ingredient 
separately, and beat all well together. Bake in a round shallow 
mould. 

198. Shrewsbury Cakes (2). 

^ lb. butter rubbed into 2i lb. flour, i lb. sugar, i oz. volatile, 
3 eggs, a Uttle new milk; cut into any nice shapes you like; 
brush over with a little new milk, then dip in rough loaf sugar, 
with almonds cut in thin slices strewn amongst the sugar. Bake 
in oven till a nice brown ; colour with a little saffron. 

199. Queen Cakes and Cheese Cakes. 

I lb. butter, I lb. sugar ; beat lightly together ; add i egg, and 
so on till you have added 8, beating all the time ; when you find 
it beginning to oil, which it would do about the time you add the 
6th egg, have ready | lb. flour, shake in a little ; when all the 
eggs are in and well beat, mix in gently all the flour, also J oz. 
volatile, season with lemon ; line your pans with puff paste, fill 
half full ; cut a few strips of paste ornament on the top. A quick 
oven. 

Queen cakes may be made of the same mixture, only butter 
the pans and put a few currants on the top. 

200. Cocoanut Cakes. 

Grate i cocoanut, weigh, and put the same weight of sugar 
with sufficient white of eggs well beaten to make it into a stiff 
paste, with a few drops of lemon or Vanilla essence ; drop on 
wafer paper, and bake a light brown. 



OF A PAST CENTURY. $9 



201. Rice Cakes. 

J lb. flour rice, i lb. butter, i lb. sugar, ^ lb. flour; take 
the butter, melt it to a cream, and add your sugar pounded ; stir 
it till it becomes quite light, then break in 1 2 eggs, 3 at a time ; 
keep stirring all the time ; when the eggs are worked in, add the 
rice flour. Bake either as a large cake or small. 

202. Ginger Cakes. 

I lb. flour, f lb. loaf sugar, i oz. ground ginger, i teaspoonful 
baking powder, 5 eggs, i orange peel cut small ; mix the 
baking powder with the flour, add the eggs to the other ingredients, 
beat all with the hand eighteen minutes ; drop on tins. 

203. Small Seed Cakes. 

Rub ^ lb. butter well into i lb. flour; add J lb. or | lb. 
powdered sugar ; i egg beaten with cream ; make all into a stiff 
paste j a few carraway seeds, if liked. 

204. Transparent Gingerbread. 

I lb. treacle, J lb. flour, J lb. butter, 6 oz. sugar, Cayenne and 
ginger to taste ; melt the butter, and shake the flour in by degrees. 

205. Bath Biscuits. 

I lb. flour, J lb. sugar, ij oz. sal volatile, 2 oz. butter; mix 
with some milk. 

206. Hot Cross Buns. 

3 lb. flour, I lb. butter, f lb. sugar, a little ginger, essence of 
lemon, a little saffron, id. worth barm, currants, if liked. 

207. London Buns. 

3 lb. flour, f lb. butter, id. worth barm (or yeast), | lb. loaf 
sugar, I lb. Sultana raisins, ^ lb. orange peel ; season with lemon ; 
6 eggs. 



60 FARE AND PHYSIC 



208. Tea Cakes, Rolls, and Buns. 

4 lb. flour, 8 oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfuls good yeast, made up 
with new milk; the milk and butter to be put together and 
warmed ; i teacupful sugar for the buns. They should rise for 
nearly one hour after they are made up. This quantity makes 8 
tea cakes, 18 dinner rolls, and 22 buns. 

209. Good Little Cakes. 

J lb. flour, 6 oz. butter rubbed into the flour, ^ lb. pounded 
sugar, I egg well beaten, and drop on tins to bake. 

210. Buns. 

Mix 2 lb. flour, i pint milk, J lb. butter, 4 eggs, 4 spoonfuls 
barm ; beat them well together ; put them to rise one hour before 
the fire; then add i lb. currants, a little nutmeg, pounded 
cinnamon, and a little salt. 

211. Ginger Cakes. 

Boil I lb. sugar till it sugars again ; wet a spoon and try if it 
will slip, if so, it is done enough ; then add to it i oz. ground 
ginger ; let it boil, then drop it with a spoon in small cakes. 

212. Brandy Snaps. 

I lb. flour, 8 oz. brown sugar, 12 oz. treacle, i oz. ginger, 8 oz. 
butter ; the less working the better. Bake in a moderate oven. 

213. Arrowroot Biscuits. 

10 oz. fresh butter, 6 eggs, 10 oz. sifted sugar, 12 oz. sifted 
arrowroot, 10 oz. flour, essence of lemon. To be dropped in tins 
from a bag. 

214. Parkin Gingerbread. 

4 lb. oatmeal, 3 lb. treacle, J lb. butter, i oz. ground ginger, 
I oz. carraway seeds. Melt the butter and treacle together ,• dis- 
solve a piece of potash the size of a nut in a little water ; mix all 
well together, and bake in Yorkshire pudding tins in a moderate 
oven. When pretty cool, cut in pieces. 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 6 1 



215. Brandy Wafers. 

4 oz. butter, 4 oz. sugar, 4 oz. syrup, 3 oz. flour, i oz. ground 
ginger. Melt the butter, stir in the other ingredients, drop a 
dessertspoonful on a baking tin, and bake in a sharp oven. When 
baked, roll round the handle of a wooden spoon. 

216. Ginger Nuts. 

I lb. flour, i|- lb. treacle, i lb. sugar, | lb. butter, i^ oz. ground 
ginger, a small quantity lemon peel chopped fine. Bake them in 
a slow oven. 

217. Ginger Biscuits. 

Take ^ lb. flour, 6 oz. sugar, 4 oz. butter, i oz. ground ginger, 
2 tablespoonfuls water. 

218. Carraway Biscuits, 

3 breakfastcupfuls flour, 2 teacupfuls lump sugar pounded, 
I large tablespoonful carraway seeds ; rub a small bit of butter 
into the flour. Before you add the sugar and seeds, make it into 
a stiff paste with a little milk, roll out thin, and cut them into 
any shape you please. Bake in a cool oven a light brown. 

219. Butter Biscuits. 

Rub 12 oz. butter into 3 lb. flour, ^ pint sour milk, ; J oz. 
carbonate of soda, ^ oz. tartaric acid. 

220. Sugar Biscuits. 

1 2 eggs, 12 oz. ' sugar, 1 2 oz. flour ; beat the eggs and sugar 
till very light, then sift in the flour j beat lightly, then- run them 
through a funnel in fingers and round drops. 

221. Arrowroot Biscuits. 

I lb. arrowroot, J lb. butter, I lb. sugar ; beat together to a 
cream, then drop in an egg; beat a:gain,add a little arroWroot, 
then an egg (alternately). Bake in a quick oven. 



62 FARE AND PHYSIC 

222. Lemon Biscuits. 

^ lb. flour, ^ lb. sugar, ^ lb. butter, 4 eggs, J oz. sal volatile, a 
little lemon. Beat the sugar and butter, then add the eggs by 
degrees, but put in a little flour afi;er the first 2 eggs, or rub the 
butter in the flour, then add sugar, eggs, and volatile. 

223. Abernethy Biscuits. 

4 lb. flour, 6 oz. butter rubbed into the flour, 6 oz. sugar, a 
little soda and pine ashes, a few carraways. 

224. Wine Biscuits. 

4 lb. flour, 12 oz. butter rubbed into the flour, 6 oz. sugar, 
a little soda and pine ashes. 

225. Victoria Biscuits. 

Take 3 lb. flour, i lb. butter rubbed into the flour, i lb. 
sugar, 6 eggs dropped in, J oz. volatile, a little essence of lemon. 

226. Ginger Biscuits. 

if lb. flour, 10 oz. butter, ij oz. ginger; rub butter into the 
flour, i^ lb. sugar, 2 eggs, | oz. volatile ; mix with water. 

227. Raspberry Biscuits. 

J lb. raspberries, ^ lb. sifted sugar, i white of an egg ; beat all 
for two hours, then drop it on paper, and set it to dry. Any other 
fruit will do as well. 

228. Wheaten Biscuits. 

1 lb. wheaten flour, 2 oz. sugar, 2 oz. butter, i teaspoonful 
baking powder ; rub the butter into the flour ; add the other in- 
gredients, roll out, and bake in a moderate oven. 

229. Water Biscuits (i). 

2 lb. flour, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. sugar ; rub the butter into the 
flour, then add the sugar and sufficient water to make a stiff dough ; 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 63 

roll out very thin, and cut with cutters the size required, and bake 
in a quick oven. 

230. Water Biscuits (2). 

2 tablespoonfuls flour, butter the size of a pigeon's egg, a pinch 
of salt, suflficient milk to make a stiff dough ; break the butter into 
the flour, and mix in the other ingredients ; before rolling out beat 
the dough well with the rolling-pin ; break off httle bits of the 
dough. Roll out as thin as possible, and bake in a quick oven. 

231. Squirt Biscuits. 

I lb. flour, I lb. arrowroot, i lb. butter, i lb. sugar; rub in 
all together. Beat up 4 eggs, make into a stiff dough, and squirt 
through a funnel, and bake in quick oven. 

232. Rusks. 

I lb. flour, 4 oz. butter, i tablespoonful yeast or 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, 2 eggs, rather more than ^ pint of milk ; set 
the dough by the fire to rise, . cut it into round cakes, and when 
half baked divide each cake into two, then put them in the oven 
again to finish baking. 

233. Macaroons. 

Blanch J lb. sweet almonds, pound them very fine in a mortar 
with the whites of 4 eggs, add 10 oz. powdered sugar and the 
grated rind of i lemon ; mix all well together, and bake in small 
cakes on wafer paper. 

234. Danish Kringles. 

The yolks of six hard-boiled eggs rubbed through a sieve, | lb. 
flour, J lb. butter, J lb. sugar (sometimes the grated rind of a 
lemon) ; mix well together, and knead until it will roll. Divide 
and roll into small biscuits, and bake in a moderate oven. 



PRESERVING, PICKLING, AND 
CURING. 



PRESERVING, PICKLING, AND CURING. 



235. Marmalade. 

Allow i^ lb. of sugar to each pound of oranges; grate one- 
third of the oranges, pour i English pint of boiling water over the 
gratings, cover it up till all is ready for the fire ; put it through a 
sieve, keep back the gratings, and add the water to the marmalade ; 
cut the oranges into four pieces, take the skins from them, put 
them on the fire in cold water, let them boil about four hours ; 
scrape the pulp from the inner skins, put the seed and refuse into 
2 pints of water, wash them well in it, put it through a sieve, add 
it to the marmalade ; cut the boiled skins into pieces like straws, 
put it all on the fire, and boil about forty minutes. 

N.B. — After the skins have boiled for an hour, pour off the 
■water and add boiling water to them. 

236. Sweet Chutney (i). 

2 lb. of sugar, 2 lb. of raisins, stoned and cut, i lb. of mustard 
seeds washed, dried, and gently crushed, ';| lb. of salt, \ lb. garlic 
sliced finely, \ lb. of chillies finely sliced, \ lb. green ginger sliced, 
2 quarts of the best vinegar, 30 large apples peeled, cored, and 
sliced ; melt the sugar and salt in i quart of vinegar on the fire, 
stirring all the time, and remove any scum that may rise ; do 
not let it boil; then strain it into a basin. Put the apples in the 
second quart of vinegar and let them boil ; when quite tender 
throw in all the other ingredients and stir well ; warm all 
thoroughly, but do not let it boil ; allow it to cool in a large china 
bowl, and for the next three days stir it well, then bottle the 
mixture and cork it tightly. 

N.B. — A china lined or iron saucepan should be used ; on 
no account use a copper pan. 

237. Chutney of Mangoes or Apricots (2). 

Take 2 lb. sugar, 3 lb. apricots or mangoes, and make into 
jam. When that is done, add 2 lb. raisins cut very small, 2 oz. 



68 FARE AND PHYSIC 



garlic, 4 oz. green ginger, 2 oz. chillies all well pounded, 2 oz. 
salt. Mix all these ingredients with the jam, and boil together for 
a quarter of an hour. When done, add 2 quart bottles vinegar, 
and stir the whole twenty minutes, but not on the fire. 

N.B. — Use plums or apples in place of the mangoes, and i 
lb. best preserved ginger makes the chutney much nicer than the 
green ginger; it should be sliced. The vinegar is best boiled 
when all the ingredients are mixed together, it takes off the 
rawness. 

238. Pickling Walnuts. 

Make a -brine of salt and water in the proportion of \ lb. salt 
to I quart water ; put the walnuts into this to soak for two days ; 
run a large needle into them in half a dozen places, this allows 
the pickle to penetrate; put them on a sieve to drain, then lay 
them on a tray or any board, letting them stand in the air till 
they turn black ; this may take a couple of days. Put them into 
glass or unglazed stone jars, fill these about three-parts with the 
walnuts, and fill them up with the following pickle : to each quart 
of the strbngest vinegar put i oz. black pepper, i oz. ginger, i oz. 
shalots, I oz. salt, \ oz. allspice, and \ drachm Cayenne; put 
these into a stone jar, cover it with a bladder wetted with the 
pickle ; tie over that some leather, and set the jar by the side of 
the fire for two days, shaking it up three times a day ; then pour it 
while hot to the walnuts, and cover them down with bladder and 
leather. 

239. Cucumber Catsup. 

Take full-grown cucumbers and one-third onions; peel and 
slice the cucumbers and onions, and put plenty of salt to both ; 
let them stand twenty-four hours ; then strain it, and to every 
quart of liquor put a quart of good white wine ; boil it with 
plenty of nutmeg, mace, and white pepper. To every 2 quarts 
liquor put f lb. anchovies, and a good stick of horseradish. Boil 
it all together for some time. Bottle when cold. 

240. Mushroom Catsup. 

Take large, full-grown flap mushrooms, fresh gathered ; put a 
layer in a deep earthen jar, then a layer of salt, and so on 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 6g 

alternately; let them remain two or three hours, then pound 
them well with the hands ; allow them to remain two days, each 
day stirring and mashing them well. Pour into a stone jar, and to 
every quart add i oz. whole black pepper. Stop the jar very close, 
set it in a stew-pan of boiling water, and keep it boiling for two 
hours. Take out the jar and pour the juice through a hair sieve, 
without squeezing the mushrooms, into a clean stew-pan; let it 
boil gently for half an hour, pour through a flannel. To each pint 
of catsup I tablespoonful brandy ; botde, and seal the corks, or 
dip in bottle cement; keep in a dry place, and if any mould 
appears, boil up again with a few peppercorns. 

241. Potato Flour. 

Peel and mash i lb. potatoes, small or diseased ones maybe 
used ; grate them into a dish, and cover with i quart cold water ; 
stir well. Next day pour off the water, and add fresh, repeating 
this until the water is quite clear, when a fine white powder will be 
deposited ; break this up, and dry on sheets of paper in the sun 
or before the fire. Keep in close stoppered bottles. Is useful 
for thickening sauces, &c. 

242. Caramel Walnuts. 

^ lb. walnuts, 2 oz. almonds, ^ lb. icing sugar, i small white 
of egg, J lb. common sugar, J teacupful water, J teaspoonful 
cream of tartar. Break the walnuts carefully, and remove inner 
husks ; blanch the almonds, and pound fine ; add the icing sugar, 
free from lumps ; then the white of egg, and mix with the pesde. 
The mixture must be barely moistened ; if soft, more sugar must 
be added to make it dry and almost hard. Take a piece of the 
mixture and roll it into a ball ; put half a walnut in each side ; 
repeat till all are finished, and set aside for a day to harden. 
Put the common sugar, water, and cream of tartar in a small 
saucepan; let it boil till it becomes thick; dip the walnuts in 
separately, and put on a buttered plate till cold. To remove 
them, heat the plate slightly. To test if the sugar is boiled 
sufficiently, dip an iron spoon in cold water, then into the sugar, 
and back into cold water ; it will be hard then if the liquid is 
ready. 



70 FARE AND PHYSIC 

243. Chocolate Caramels. 

3 cupfuls granulated sugar, i cupful milk, small piece of butter, 
half-cake unsweetened chocolate; boil hard for six minutes; 
flavour with Vanilla ; remove from the fire, and beat briskly till 
nearly hard. 

244. Cream Candy. 

Beat the whites of 4 eggs to a stiff froth ; add i tablespoonful 
cold water, and flavour to taste ; stir together a little, and then 
add pounded sugar till stiff to knead like dough; then mould 
into shape, and add nuts either inside or out. 

245. Cocoanut Tablet. 

Put on the fire, in a brass or copper pan, 4 lb. brown sugar, 
with I English pint of cold water ; stir till it comes to the boil, 
then take off the fire ; have a large cocoanut opened and grated ; 
add it to the sugar, along with the milk of the cocoanut, and stir 
it all together till you see it begin to stick to the side of the pan ; 
have a large sheet of paper greased ; lay it on a large flat dish ; 
pour the tablet on it, and let it stand till it cools ; then turn it 
over, draw off" the paper, and cut it into squares. 

246. Everton Toffee. 

7 lb. brown sugar, 2 lb. fresh butter, i lb. treacle, a common 
teacupful of cold water, ^ oz. grated ginger, a small teaspoonful 
essence of lemon— this last to be put in before the toffee comes 
off' the fire ; boil all together in a brass pan till it eats crisp when 
dropped in cold water ; pour it into buttered tins. 

247. Uncooked Raspberry Jam. 

I lb. preserving sugar to each lb. ripe fruit; put the sugar 
into the oven to get thoroughly heated ; stir it from time to time, 
to prevent caking or burning ; put the fruit into an earthen jar 
over the fire to warm ; when heated, remove it from the fire, and 
mash it into a fine pulp ; then add the hot sugar, and stir or beat 
it briskly for five minutes ; then cover it, and let it stand half an 
hour ; beat again briskly for five minutes, and let it stand another 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 7 1 

half hour ; stir again for five minutes ; put it into bottles, and tie 
closely. 

248. Ginger Lettuce. 

Take lettuce that is shot, but not hard or stringy ; peel and 
cut the stalks into small pieces, which lay in a pickle of salt water 
for twenty-four hours ; then take out the stalks and pour fresh 
water over them till it becomes tasteless. The lettuce is now 
ready for preserving, so boil the syrup and pour it over the 
lettuce, which repeat every day for three or four days ; for the last 
time, when the syrup is boiling, put in the lettuce, and boil for 
fifteen minutes. Allow i lb. sugar and ^ lb. ginger to i lb. 
lettuce. 

249. Apple Ginger. 

f lb. whole ginger to a Scotch pint of water ; put it on a slow 
fire, and let it simmer six hours, keeping up the pint of water. 
Pare and cut 8 lb. codling apples ; allow | lb. sugar to every lb. 
of fruit; cover with the sugar, and let them stand all night and 
next day ; add the ginger juice, and boil slowly one hour till the 
apples are clear. Shake the pan to prevent burning, but do not 
stir it. 

250. A Beautiful Preserve. 

Boil a suiBcient number of apricots to the consistency of a 
paste ; then drop from the pan (upon strong white paper sprinkled 
with sugar), about the size of half an apricot, and the thickness of 
half-a-crown. To be kept till quite hard and dry. 

251. Mince Meat. 

3 lb. best suet, 3 lb. sugar, 3 lb. currants, 2 lb. apples, ij lb. 
raisins stoned and chopped, i lb. mixed candied peel chopped 
small, 4^ wineglassfuls brandy, 2 glasses sherry, juice of 4 lemons 
and grated peel, 4 large teaspoonfuls pounded mace, | teaspoonful 
pounded cloves. 

252. Recipe for English Coffee. 

Roast I quart horse beans in a common but clean frying-pan 
over a clear fire till they begin to colour, and then, from the point 



72 FARE AND PHYSIC 



of a knife, continue putting in small bits of honey among the 
beans till they become of a dark chestnut colour. Having taken 
them oif the fire, put i oz. cassia mundata into the pan, and stir 
them till they get cool. After being ground and made like real 
coffee, few people will detect the difference. Cassia mundata is 
an inexpensive spicey drug somewhat of the nature of cinnamon. 

253. Curry Powder (l). 

13 oz. powdered coriander seed, i oz. Cayenne pepper, 3 oz. 
cinnamon seed, 8 oz. turmeric, 8 oz. faingrick. Keep in tightly 
corked bottle. 

254. Curry Powder (2). 

6 oz. turmeric, 4 oz. coriander seed, 2 oz. cinnamon seed, 2 
oz. faingrick seed, ^ oz. Cayenne. 

255. Curry Powder (3). 

6 oz. ground coriander seed, i oz. faingrick seed, ^ oz. cardi- 
mum seed, ^ oz. black pepper, 3 oz. rice, 6 oz. turmeric, ^ oz. 
Cayenne pepper, i oz. ginger. All to be carefully mixed together 
and put into a well-corked jar and kept for use. To each dish of 
curry add i tablespoonful sweet butter, J lb. of juicy apple, ^ lb. 
of lemon squeezed. 

256. Curing Hams (i). 

For a pig 15 stone weight: 8 lb. common salt, ^ lb. saltpetre, 
z lb. coarse brown sugar, ^ lb. ground black pepper. Rub the 
hams well with this mixture for a quarter of ah hour each the 
first time, then turn and rub them daily for seven days, after 
which add to them a pickle made thus : put 2 )b. salt, ^ oz. salt- 
petre to I quart water ; boil it half an hour, and, when cold, pour 
over the hams. The pork must on no account swim in the brine ; 
to prevent it, lay on very heavy stones. The hams to be kept 
three weeks in the brine, and the flitches sixteen days. 

257. Curing Hams (2). 

Sprinkle a ham weighing 18 lb. or upwards with a little 
common salt, and let it lie a day ; then rub it with i oz. ground 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 73 



black pepper, i oz. pounded saltpetre ; let it lie another day, and 
rub in the following : i lb. common salt, i lb. bay salt ; in two 
hours pour over it i lb. treacle ; let it lie for three or four weeks, 
turning and rubbing daily. 

258. Curing Hams (3). 

To cure a ham better than those of Westphalia, as soon as the 
pig is cold enough to be cut up, take the 2 hams and cut out the 
round bone so as not to have the ham too thick j rub them well 
with common salt, and leave them in a large pan for three days ; 
when the salt has drawn out all the blood, throw the brine away. 
Proceed as follows — For 2 hams about 18 lb. each, take i lb. of 
moist sugar; i lb. of common salt, 2 oz. saltpetre; mix them 
together, rub the hams well with it, then put them in a vessel 
large enough to contain them in the liquor, always keeping the 
salt over them ; after they have been in this state three days, 
throw over them a bottle of good vinegar ; one month is requisite 
to cure them. During that period they must be often turned in 
the brine ; then take out, drain them well, powder them with some 
coarse flour and hang them in a dry place. The same brine will 
serve again, observing that you must not put so much salt on the 
next hams that you pickle. If the hams are smaller, | lb. of salt 
will do, but the salt will not do any harm if you do not let 
them remain too long in the brine. If you can get them smoked, 
so much the better. Be particular that the hams are hung as 
far as possible from the fire, otherwise the fat will melt and they 
will become dry and hard. 

259. Pickled Beef, Pork, or Mutton. 

-Take 4 gallons water, to which add 2 lb. cane sugar, i^ oz. 
saltpetre, i oz. salt of prunella, and 6 lb. common salt ; put the 
whole into a clean pot or kettle and let it boil, being careful to 
skim off all that comes up to the top ; let it stand till cold; then 
having put the meat into the dish you intend to keep it in, pour 
it over the meat till it is quite covered, in which condition it must 
be kept. 



74 FARE AND PHYSIC OF A PAST CENTURY, 



260. To Make a Beef Ham. 

For a rump of beef about 20 lb. weight, take 3 oz. saltpetre, 
I lb. brown sugar, J lb. bay salt, ^ oz. white pepper, \ lb. cloves, 
and a nutmeg or two ; beat and mix them together, and rub it 
well into the ham ; then rub it over with common salt and bed 
and cover it with it ; let it lie three weeks in this pickle, turning it 
every other day, and then hang it up. 

261. Mutton Ham. 

Cut a gigot of mutton into ham shape, hang it for two days, and 
for one of 12 to 14 lb. weight prepare the following pickle : -^ lb. 
bay salt, ^ lb. common salt, 2 oz. saltpetre, I- lb. brown sugar ; 
mix dry, and make hot in a stew-pan, then rub it well over the 
ham, first taking a little common salt and thrusting it up the space 
between the meat and shank bone. Turn the ham each day in 
the liquor and rubbing ; at the end of four days add 2 oz. more 
of common salt. In twelve days take it out, dry it, and hang up 
in wood smoke for a week. 

262. Preserving Eggs. 

Take a lime shell and pour over it cold water, leaving it all 
night, then stir it all up and pour off, allowing stones and hard 
pieces to remain. Then to test it, put an egg into the jar ; if it 
fall immediately, the lime water is too weak ; if right, the egg will 
gently rise and keep about half-way. The eggs must be fresh and 
free from cracks. 

263. Ghee — Clarified Butter. 

Put on a very slow fire a deep saucepan filled with fresh 
butter, stir continually with wooden spoon to prevent burning ; 
when all watery particles are evaporated, add 2 or 3 cloves and 
same of peppercorns to each pound of butter ; when nearly cold 
pour into clean, dry jars, and keep in cool larder. 



BEVERAGES. 



BEVERAGES. 



264. A Syllabub under the Cow. 

Put a bottle of red or white wine, ale, or cider into a china 
bowl; sweeten it with sugar, and grate in some nutmeg; then 
hold it under the cow, and milk into it till it has a fine froth on 
the top; strew over it a handful of currants cleaned, washed, 
and picked, and plumped before the fire. 

265. Sack Whey. 

Boil a pint of milk ; add to it a glass or two of white wine ; 
put it on the fire till it just boils ; set on one side till the curd 
has settled ; pour off, and sweeten to taste. A refreshing drink 
for invalids. 

266. German Coffee. 

Put on the coffee with cold water, and let it come aboil ; have 
the milk also boiling, and put in an egg beat up with some sugar 
and a small piece of butter ; then stir them all together, and let 
them come aboil, and then serve up. 

267. A Rich Eating Posset. 

Take i choppin (quart) sweet cream, ^ lb. common biscuit 
pounded and sifted, 6 oz. sweet almonds blanched and beat up 
with a little sweet milk to prevent oiling ; mix all together ; put 
in a pan, and let them boil a while ; then take i mutchkin (pint) 
white wine ; beat 9 eggs, keeping out 6 of the whites ; put them 
to the wine and sweeten ; season with cinnamon ; put the wine 
and eggs on the fire, and let them come aboil ; then put them in 
a bowl; pour in the cream by degrees; stir about, and strew sugar 
and cinnamon on the top. It looks very pretty with sliced almonds 
stuck on the top. Goes to table in a bowl, and is a proper middle 
dish for supper. 



78 FARE AND PHYSIC 



268. An Ale Posset. 

Boil I mutchkin (pint) new milk with i spoonful grated bread; 
sweeten a bottle of strong ale, and season with nutmeg ; put it in 
a bowl, and pour the milk (boiling) upon it ; stir it about, and let 
it stand till the head rises. 

269. Raisin Wine. 

Boil 10 gallons spring water for one hour; to every gallon 
take 6 lb. Malaga raisins, picked clean and half-chopped ; stir it 
up twice a-day for nine or .ten days ; put them into the Hquor 
when it is lukewarm, and then run it through a hair sieve; squeeze 
the raisins well, and put the liquor in the barrel; bung it close up; 
let it stand three months, and then bottle. 

270. Currant Wine. 

Take an equal quantity of red and white currants, and bake 
them one hour in a moderate oven ; then squeeze them through 
a coarse cloth ; to every 4 gallons of boiling water take i pint of 
juice and 3 lb. loaf-sugar; boil it quarter of an hour, skim it 
well, and put it in a tub ; when cool, put in a toast of bread, 
spread on both sides with 2 spoonfuls of yeast ; let it work three 
days ; stir it three or four times a-day ; then put it into a cask, 
and to every ro gallons of this wine take i pint of brandy and the 
whites of 10 eggs beat; bung it close up; let it stand three 
months, and then bottle. This is a pale wine, but keeps well, 
and drinks pleasantly. 

271. To make a lo-Gallon Barrel of Rum Shrub. 

Beat 18 lb. refined sugar, and put it in a barrel with lemon 
and orange juice, of each 2 quarts ; shake the barrel often, and 
stir it up with a stick till the sugar is dissolved ; before squeezing 
the fruit, take the rind of 4 dozen lemons and oranges, and pour 
some rum on it ; fill up the barrel with rum, adding what was 
over the rind ; bung it up, and let it stand six weeks. If not fine 
enough, let it stand a week or two longer. 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 79 

272. Syrup for Liqueurs. 

Put a quart of water in a saucepan, and drop into it, lump by 
lump, I lb. loaf sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, let it boil 
again, and put it in a broad dish to cool ; it is then fit for use. 

273. British Noyeau. 

To I quart English gin put 3 oz. bitter almonds, blanched and 
cut into slices ; the rinds of 3 lemons. Let it stand three days 
before the fire, shaking the bottle several times a day ; then add 
I lb. loaf sugar, let it dissolve, shaking it frequently till dissolved, 
then filter through blotting paper. If not sweet enough, add 
more sugar. 

274. Imperial. 

An excellent and pleasant refrigerant drink in febrile diseases 
is prepared by dissolving i or i J oz. of cream of tartar in a pint 
of boiling water, flavoured with lemon peel and sugar, or, better 
still, with syrup of oranges. 

275. Orange Liqueur. 

^ gallon gin, 4 Seville oranges, 4 lemons, 3d. worth of saffron, 
3^ lb. sugar. Steep the rinds (pared very thinly) and the saffron 
in the gin three days, corking tightly; strain it off; dissolve the 
sugar in as little water as possibje, only sufficient to make a thick 
syrup, and boil till clear ; add it to the spirit, stir, and bottle in 

pints. 

276. Orange Gin Liqueur. 

The rind of 8 Seville oranges and 8 lenions, peeled very thin. 
Keep the above in i gallon of the best unsweeiencd gin in an 
earthenware vessel with a cover for ten days ; stir two or three 
times a day. Strain the gin from the peel, and add 3 lb. loaf 
sugar, pounded and sifted ; stir daily. When sugar is thoroughly 
dissolved, the gin may be bottled. This can be used six weeks 
after botthng, but improves with keeping two years at least. 

277. Lemon Syrup. 

2 lemons, i oz. tartaric acid, \\ oz. lump sugar, \\ pint 
water. Boil the water with the sugar and lemon peel till the sugar 



8o FARE AND PHYSIC 

is dissolved ; when nearly cold, remove the peel, and add juice of 
lemons. Boil about ten minutes; strain it, and bottle. The 
tartaric acid is added just before straining. 

278. Black Currant Syrup. 

Gather currants, bruise with bottom of a jelly can, stalks and 
all ; put them into a large, wide-mouthed crock ; stir them round 
every day with a wooden spoon, and cover with a thin kitchen 
towel. Let them remain ten days until fermented, then strain off; 
and to every pint of juice add f lb. loaf sugar. Put this on the 
fire, and boil two or three minutes ; take it off, and let it stand 
until cold. Next day, let it come to the boil again, then bottle 
and cork when cold. 

279. Milk Punch. 

2 bottles rum, 3 bottles water that has been previously boiled, 
and 9^ lemons ; pare the lemons very thin ; put the parings with 
the juice, and 8 lb. loaf sugar ; mix all together, and add i bottle 
milk, boiling hot. Put the whole into a vessel, and cover it up 
close for at least twenty-four hours, stirring it occasionally, then 
pass it through a jelly-bag till perfectly clear. 

N'.B. — If wished to be weaker, add more water. 

280. Curagoa. 

Take 1 8 Seville oranges, pare them very thin ; put the peel 
into a jar, with 3 lb. candy sugar, and 4 bottles brandy ; let it 
stand by the fire ; stir it three times a day. At the end of a fort- 
night, strain and bottle it. 

281, Mrs Caldwell's Cherry Brandy. 

Take a large basin, fill with cherries slightly broken, 2 blades 
mace, 2 sticks cinnamon, i nutmeg, 8 peppercorns, 12 cherry 
kernels, 2 or 3 bitter almonds, added with pounded loaf sugar and 
whisky — about 3 quarts of the latter to a 4-quart greybeard. Pour 
the contents of the basin into a greybeard, and stir with a stick 
every day for a week ; then seal and cork. After standing one 
year,_strain and bottle. 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 8[ 



282. Elderflower Wine. 

For a cask of 18 pints (Scotch), 27 lb. lump sugar, 6 lb. 
raisins (picked), 6 lemons cut in two and squeezed; the skins are 
boiled with the sugar, raisins, and water for twenty minutes, and 
then poured into a tub over a lippie and a-half of elderflowers 
lightly shaken from their stalks, and the juice of the lemons is then 
added. Cover it over with a tablecloth, and allow it to stand 
till the evening (if you have made it in the forenoon) ; then add 4 
or 5 spoonfuls of yeast, and stir it well in ; stir every day for 
about a month till the fermentation ceases, then pass it through a 
yellow bag and put it into the cask with the skins of the lemons 
and the best of the raisins ; what is over of the liquid is kept for 
filling up the cask, which must be done every day as it falls ; bottle 
in March. Let it run through a quill as long as it is clean, and 
after that through a search. 

283. Ginger Wine. 

To make 6 gallons use 3J lb. loaf sugar per gallon, 9 oz. best 
white Jamaica ginger, the peel and juice of 8 lemons and 8 Seville 
oranges for the 6 gallons ; dissolve the sugar and boil the ginger 
for I or 2 hours ; put into the cask 3 lb. of chopped raisins ; add, 
finally, a bottle of brandy. 

284. Raspberry or Blackberry Vinegar. 

Bruise the berries, and pour as much vinegar as will cover them 
over ; let them stand four days, strain them through a cloth ; take 
f lb. loaf sugar, boil it fifteen or twenty minutes, and let it stand 
till quite cold before bottling it. 

285. Mrs M.'s Ginger Wine. 

For a 10 gallon cask, 20 lb. sugar, i gallon lime juice, i^ 
gallon whisky, i drachm essence of almonds, if lb. whole ginger, 
6 oz. whole cinnamon, i dozen bitter oranges, ^ dozen lemons. 
The ginger and cinnamon to be bruised and allowed to simmer 
for several hours ; the oranges and lemons to be grated, and the 
juice and pulp of them put into the cask, but the skins kept out. 
Other seasonings to taste ; clear with isinglass, and bottle. 

F 



82 FARE AND PHYSIC 



286. Balm Wine. 

For a 20 pint cask put 23 pints water with 18 lb. loaf sugar 
into a pan, set it over a slow fire ; when the liquor is milk warm, 
put in the whites of 12 eggs well beat ; when it comes to the boil 
skim it, and continue to do so as long as there is any scum. Put 
this liquor into a tub ; when it is cold as summer water, pour it 
into the cask into which the lemon balm has been put, set the 
cask upon a gauntress, put under it a flat vessel, then put in 4 or 
5 spoonfuls of best hop barm every morning and evening j pour 
back into the cask all the scum that works over until the ferment- 
ation ceases ; the tops only of the lemon balm must be taken ; it 
takes 2.\ lb. balm for a 20 pint cask. The month of June is the 
proper time for making it. 

287. To Make a 12 Pint Barrel of Ginger Wine. 

Take 10 oz. bruised ginger, boil it six hours ; then strain and 
pour it on 10 lb. raw sugar ; let it stand twenty-four hours, then 
run it through a bag ; pare and take the juice of 2\ dozen lemons, 
put in the parings of a dozen of the lemons ; add 6 bitter oranges, 
and \\ gallon whisky ; fill up the barrel with cold boiled water, 
and let it stand six weeks. Then it is ready to bottle. 

288. Miss Telfer's Recipe for Ginger Wine. 

Miss Telfer puts 2 dozen lemons, 5 lb. bitter oranges, and 
4 gallons whisky (old measure) to the 20 pint barrel of ginger 
wine. She steeps the peel of the fruit in spirits for two or three 
days, and adds it to the barrel, not putting in the peel, i lb. of 
ginger boiled with as much water as fill the barrel. To stand six 
weeks at least. 

289. Ginger Wine. 

\ oz. essence of Jamaica ginger, \ oz. essence of Cayenne, 
\ oz. essence of lemon, i bz. burnt sugar, \ oz. citric acid. Put 
2\ lb. sugar in a jar, and pour over 5 quarts boiling water ; when 
quite cold, put in above ingredients, and botde. 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 83 

290. . Ginger Beer (i). 
10 oz. bruised ginger, 3 doz. quart bottles boiling water, 2 oz. 
cream of tartar, 7 lb. crushed loaf sugar. Boil all for half an 
hour ; pour it upon the rinds of 2 grated lemons when it is luke- 
warm ; set it with i^ tablespoonful of strong brewers' barm ; let 
it stand all night ; strain it through a chamois skin bag, and, if 
not quite clear, strain it again ; bottle and cork it tightly, putting 
on a string or wire. It will be ready in twelve days. 

291. Ginger Beer (2). 

To 9 gallons water, 5 oz. cream of tartar, 6 oz. best Jamaica 
ginger, 3 large lemons, 9 lb. lump sugar. Put into the boiler half 
of the water, the full quantity of sugar, ginger, the thin rind pared 
of the lemons, and the juice of ditto squeezed into it likewise. 
Boil all for half an hour ; have ready the whites of 6 eggs, switched 
amongst a little cold water, add them to the other ingredient^ 
and boil all together for five or ten minutes. Take the boiling 
liquid and pour it into a tub upon the cream of tartar ; add the 
other half of cold water ; strain all, and, when cooled to about 68 
or 70 degrees, add a sufficient quantity of fresh yeast to cause 
fermentation. Let it stand about three days, after which draw it 
off and bottle. If it is wanted very fine, run it out of the ferment- 
ing tub into a small cask, which must be' filled, stopped close, and 
set aside into a cool place for ten or fourteen days before bottling. 
By fining it so, it is considerably longer in ripening for use. 

292. Ginger Beer (3). 

Soak 2 J oz. ginger in boiling water for a few minutes, then cut 
it in pieces, add 2 lb. loaf sugar ; pour over the ginger and sugar 
2 gallons boihng water. When lukewarm, add 2 tablespoonfuls 
yeast and the juice of 2 ordinary sized lemons, with the whites of 
2 eggs beat. Let it settle, then carefully bottle and cork it tight. 
It will be ready for use in a few days. 

293. Lemonade (i). 
Peel 2 lemons as thin as possible, ^nd place the peel in a jug 
with 8 lumps sugar ; pour over it 1 quart boiling water, and allow 
it to get cold; then add the juice of 2 lemons just before serving. 



84 FARE AND PHYSIC OF A PAST CENTURY. 



294. Lemonade (2). 

Boil I gallon water and 2 lb. loaf sugar softly three-quarters of 
an hour, with the parings of i doz. lemons. When cold, take out- 
the parings and squeeze in the juice ; spread a piece of brown 
toasted bread with yeast, and put it into the liquor. Let it stand 
two days, then bottle it. 

295. Cordial. 

^ oz. Cayenne, | oz. mace, ^ oz. cloves, | oz. cinnamon, 3 nut- 
megs bruised, 3 gills whisky. The spices to be rubbed together and 
shaken with the whisky for four or five days, and then strained. 
A few drops, more or less, are very agreeable in tea or other 
beverages. 

296. Hock Cup. 

To every 2 bottles of hock allow 6 oz. castor sugar, and a 
small handful black currant leaves, with a sprinkling of woodruff. 
Put these into ^ pint cold water, the rind of a fresh lemon, and 
steep until the water is thoroughly flavoured ; then add the hock, 
and stir all together; strain through muslin into a crystal jug; 
place some broken ice on top, along with a few sprigs of woodruff 
previously soaked in cura5oa. Serve iced. 

297. Iced Lime Cup. 

Squeeze the juice from as many limes as may be required; 
strain ; add sugar to taste, and good dash of Maraschino ; fill up 
the jug with iced seltzer water, and on the top a few pieces of 
fresh pine apple. 

298. Bombay Neg^us. 

Put I pint port into a jug ; rub a handful of lump sugar, piece 
by piece, on the rind of a large lemon, until all the yellow part is 
used; strain the lemon juice, and add to the wine, with the 
slightest dust of Cayenne pepper, and same of grated nutmeg; 
stir for a minute, fill up the jug with boiling water, and serve hot. 



HOUSEHOLD AND MISCELLANEOUS 
RECIPES. 



HOUSEHOLD AND MISCELLANEOUS 
RECIPES. 



299. Polish for Tables. 

3 gills linseed oil, i gill turpentine, i gill turpentine varnish, 
and I gill white vinegar ; put in a bottle, and shake well before 
using. 

300. Furniture Cream. 

2 oz. bees' wax, ^ oz. Castile soap, i gill turpentine ; cut the 
wax fine, and put the turpentine to it ; cut the soap in pieces, and 
pour I gill of boiling hot water oyer it ; stir it till dissolved ; let 
them remain in separate vessels all night, then mix them together. 

301. To Clean Brass. 

I oz. spirits of turpentine, i oz. spirits of wine, i oz. oil of 
almonds. 

302. Furniture Ointment. 

Mix I gill turpentine, ^ gill water, i oz. white wax, J oz. white 
soap ; dissolve the mixture at the fire. It should be about the 
thickness of ointment. 

303. Furniture Oil. 

4 gills linseed oil, ^ oz. nitre of antimony, ij gill strong 
vinegar ; mix well, and shake the bottle before using. 

304. To Clean White Marble (i). 

I quart sour buttermilk, a large bead of black soap ; mix with 
the milk till it is a thick batter ; lay it on the marble with a brush, 
and allow it to remain on two days, or longer ; wash off with clean 
cold water. 

305. Shoe Blacking (i). 

ij lb. ivory black, i lb. treacle, 6 oz. fine oil, 4 oz. oil of 
vitriol, 2d. worth of copperas, 4 bottles good vinegar ; mix well 



FARE AND PHYSIC 



the ivory black with the oil, treacle, and copperas^ the vinegar by 
degrees, adding the vitriol last. To ferment the mixture, mix it 
well, and allow it to stand three hours before bottling it. 

306. Shoe Blacking (2). 

\ lb. ivory black, 2d. worth of copperas, 2d. worth of vitriol, 
2d. worth of gum arable in powder, i lb treacle, 2 bottles of 
vinegar or sour beer; mix the blacking, treacle, copperas, and 
gum well together, adding the vinegar or beer by degrees, and 
lastly, stir in the vitriol, which ferments the whole. Let it stand 
twenty-four hours without stirring, then stir and bottle and cork 
well ; the bottle should be shaken before being used. 

307. For Cleaning Marble (2). 

\ lb. American ashes, \ lb. soft soap, ball of blue, some 
whitening ; boil together to the thickness of a paste, lay it on the 
marble, and leave for one night ; wash off with clean water. 

308. Recipe for Table Oil. 

3 gills linseed oil, i gill spirit of turpentine, 1 gill spirit of 
wine, 2d. worth spirit salt to a choppin bottle ; fill it up with vinegar. 

309. To Wash Flannels. 

In order to prevent the excessive shrinking of flannels, the 
following directions should be particularly attended to : — Use 
water as hot as the hands can bear ; soap as little as possible, 
never wring, but let the article merely be stripped to take out the 
surplus water ; hang up at once to dry without allowing the 
article to lie damp for any time. 

310. To Make Soap. 

2 lb. grease of any kind, dissolve i lb. black ashes in 2 
English pints cold water for a day before making the soap ; put 
the grease and ashes when thoroughly dissolved in an old pan 
(adding \ lb. pearl ash), by the side of a very slow fire, not 
allowing them to boil till incorporated together, after which boil 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 89 



it on a very slow fire (frequently stirring it) for two or three hours. 
To know when it is done enough, put a little on a plate, and when 
it easily hardens, take it and dish it ; when cold and hard cut in 
squares, and set them a little apart in a cold, dry place. 

311. Pot Pourri. 

Gather rose leaves in dry weather, but don't dry them ; cut off 
the fleshy part of each leaf and put them in a large dish, strewing 
bay salt over them at once. You may go on adding rose leaves 
through the rose season, but add more salt if in any great quantity, 
and whenever you add leaves stir it up. You may also add sweet 
scented verbena, lavender, and any quantity of sweet scented herbs 
dried till they tumble into powder ; then add the sweet powder 
after the following recipe, and stir it well up together : — i oz. all- 
spice, r oz. powdered cassia, 5 oz. orris root, 2 oz. gum bergamot, 

10 grains of musk, i stick of Vanilla crushed, a few cloves, some 
lemon peel dried and powdered, i lb. bay salt will be sufficient 
for a large jar of Pot Pourri, which must be kept in a dry place, 
but not too hot. It is best not to use white rose leaves. 

312. To Make Eau de Cologne. 

1^ drachm essence of bergamot, 9 drops essence of orange, 

11 drops essence of cedral, 17 drops essence of lemon, 8 drops 
essence of rosemary, 30 drops essence of neroli ; i pint rectified 
spirits of wine mixed well with the above. 

313. Lavender Water. 

I pint rectified spirits, 3 oz. oil of lavender, 2d. worth 
bergamot, 2d. worth ambergris, 2d. worth musk; put these in- 
gredients into a bottle and shake every day for a week. The 
bottle must be kept well corked. 

314. Jessamine Perfume. 

Dip the finest cotton wool in clear olive oil, which must be 
spread in thin layers in a tall glass vessel with alternate layers of 
jessamine flowers, which in a few days will impart the whole of 



90 FARE AND PHYSIC 



their perfume to the cotton ; the oil may then be pressed out for 
use, and the cotton itself may be laid in drawers where its per- 
fume is desired. 

315. To Take Ink Stains Out of Mahogany. 

Wash the place that is stained with a little soap and cold water; 
then dry it slightly ; after which dip the end of a cork in spirits of 
salt and rub the stain, repeating this till removed ; wash and dry 
it again. 

316. To Make Bottle Cement. 

^ lb. black resin, ^ lb. red sealing wax, \ oz. bees' waz, melted 
in an earthen or iron pot ; when it froths up before all is melted, 
stir with a tallow candle, which will prevent boiling over. 

317. Cure for Rheumatism. 

I mutchkin (pint) good vinegar, i teaspoonful Cayenne pepper, 
I teaspoonful common salt ; mix and apply to the part affected 
on going to bed. 

318. Certain Cure for the Bite of a Mad Dog — 
Nitrate of Silver. 

The best mode of application of the nitrate of silver is by 
introducing it solidly into the wound. It melts in an equal 
quantity of water, which is to be filtered into the wound ; if that 
be already healed, it should be rubbed and causticated entirely. 
The physician says, " Since I have known this, I always use it to 
any bite of a dog, sound or not, and am at rest." 

319. Cure for Erysipelas. 

Tincture of the muriate of iron, 15 drops in a wineglassful of 
water every two or three hours. 

320. To Prevent Smallpox Pitting the Face. 

To three-parts of olive oil, one part white wax melted ; paint 
the face while the mixture is warm. 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 91 

321. Camphor Ointment. 

J oz. white wax, ^ oz. camphor, i| dessertspoonful olive oil; 
melt all together. 

322. Honey Paste — Certain Cure for Chapped Hands 

in Frost. 

Mix honey and the powder of bitter almonds to a thin paste. 

323. Healing Balm for Wounds. 

Take 3 or 4 dock roots ; wash and clean them thoroughly ; 
take a piece of fresh butter about the size of a walnut, the same 
of bees' wax, and add to this the dock roots, grated ; put in a 
can, and allow to simmer by the fire for several hours ; then straiiv 
through a muslin, and pour into a covered ointment pot. 

324. Cold Cream. 

Take of white wax and spermaceti i drachm, i^ oz. oil of 
almonds, i-^ oz. rose water ; melt the wax, spermaceti, and oil in 
an earthen pan in the oven ; when melted, pour into a mortar or 
stone dish, and stir till it grows quite cold and smooth ; mix the 
rose water by degrees, while slowly stirring. 

325. Cure for Chilblains. 

;J pint oil of turpentine, i oz. crushed camphor, 2 drachms 
oil of cajepeel ; mix and agitate till solution is complete. Rub the 
mixture on the unbroken surface two or three times daily. 

326. Pomade for the Hair. 

7 oz. marrow, 4id. worth of spermaceti, i flask of Florence 
oil, IS. worth of rose oil; melt the marrow, and strain it through 
muslin ; melt the spermaceti ; then beat all the ingredients to a 
froth. 

327. Dr Jephson's Cough Plaster (1839). 

2 scruples of the extract of hemlock, and powder of opium 
sufiScient to make the plaster large enough to cover the chest. 



92 FARE AND PHYSIC 



The plaster used for mixing the above to be the Soap Plaster of 
the Pharmacopeia (is. gd.) 

328. Black Currant Vinegar. 

To every quart of picked currants put i pint vinegar ; let it 
stand about three days, stirring occasionally; then strain and 
squeeze the currants through a fine sieve or close cream cloth, 
and to every pint of juice add i^ lb. loaf sugar ; simmer for about 
twenty minutes, or till the sugar is dissolved ; pour into a jug ; 
let it stand till cold ; then bottle, tying closely down.. For a sore 
throat or cold this is excellent. 

329. Dr Goody's Cough Mixture. 

I lb. treacle, i gill white wine vinegar, 3 drachms elixir of 
vitriol, 100 drops laudanum; mix all well together, and put it 
in a botde. Take a tablespoonful morning and evening, and a 
teaspoonful when the cough is troublesome. Shake the bottle 
before using. 

330. Brewis. 

A very good meal may be bestowed in a thing called brewis, 
which is thus made : Cut a very thick upper crust of bread, and 
put it into the pot where salt beef is boiling and near ready ; it 
will attract some of the fat, and when swelled out will be no 
unpalatable dish to those who rarely taste meat. 

331. Jelly for a Consumption. 

Take i lb. hartshorn shavings, 9 oz. eringo root, 3 oz. isinglass, 
I choppin (quart) bruised snails (the shells to be taken off and 
cleaned), and 2 vipers or 4 oz. of the powder of them ; put these 
ingredients in 2 pints of water, and let it boil till it is reduced to 
I pint ; strain it through a sieve, and when it is cold put it into a 
pan with a mutchkin (pint) of Rhenish wine, ^ lb. brown sugar 
•candy, the juice of 2 Seville oranges, and the beaten whites of 
3 or 4 eggs ; boil all together for three or four minutes ; then run 
it through a jelly bag, and put it into small pots. A teacupful of 
it may be taken twice a day. 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 93 

332. Cough Mixture. 

4 grains ipecacuanha in powder, 2 drachms oxymel of squills, 
I drachm sweet spirit of nitre, 2^ oz. spearmint water, i| drachiri 
syrup orange peel ; mix, and take a tablespoonful four or five 
times in twenty-four hours. 

333. Cure for Bronchitis. 

Put 2 whole eggs (in shell) into a jar, and squeeze enough 
lemon juice to cover eggs ; cover up and allow to stand till the 
eggs have quite dissolved ; after straining the liquid add ^ lb. 
candy sugar previously melted in a little hot water and cooled, 2 
tablespoonfuls Lucca oil, and i pint good old rum ; bottle, and 
take ^ wineglassful in the morning before breakfast. 

334. Excellent Recipe for a Cough or Soreness in 
the Throat. 

Put I oz. manna in a teacup, and pour over it 2 tablespoonfuls 
of boiling milk ; when cool enough to drink, do it. The above 
should be taken fasting, and again in the middle of the day. 

335. For a Cough. 

30 drops of antimonial wine, i teaspoonful of spirits of 
nitre, i tablespoonful of camphor-julip, and 2 tablespoonful 
water. To be taken before going to bed. 

336. For a Cough (Lady Strathallan's). 

I drachm of saltpetre, 8 oz. hot water, 80 drops of antimonial 
wine sweetened with sugar; a tablespoonful to be taken every 
three or four hours for a grown person, and i dessertspoonful for a 
child. This cooling mixture is excellent for bringing up de- 
fluctions from the chest ; care should be taken not to check 
perspiration. 

337. A Remedy in Case of . Swallowing Pins. 

4 grains tartar emetic in warm water, afterwards to drink the 
whites of 4 eggs, which will coagulate upon the stomach, and 



94 FARE AND PHYSIC 



before the tartar begins to operate will envelop the pin and bring 
it up; the same may be used with success for fish or any other 
sharp bones. 

338. Cure for Toothache. 

A teaspoonful of tincture of opium or brandy poured into the 
ear of the affected side seldom fails to remove the pain, especially 
if a little vinegar be previously held in the mouth ; if the tooth is 
decayed, drawing is the best, but if that is not permitted, take 
2 grains purified opium, 2 grains camphor, 2 drops oil of cloves, 
2 drops oil of pepper, a pill to be put in the mouth. 

339. Cure for Tightness in the Chest or Difficulty of 
Breathing. 

Take i pint of Archangel tar, mix it in i gallon of water ; let it 
stand three days; stir it three times a day, also skim it, then 
bottle it. Dose — a large wineglassful three times a day. 

340. Cure for Dysentery. 

Take a sheet of white paper, cut into strips, boil in a pint and 
half of milk, to be taken at once ; also the buds of birch powdered 
and mixed up with essence of red roses is a medicine that will 
seldom disappoint expectations; for many years it has been sold 
at a guinea a galipot. 

341. Mixture for Destroying Rats and Mice. 

J calcined gypsum very finely powdered, § oatmeal. To be 
kept dry. Use with gloves. Produces thirst — rush to water — 
gypsum turns to stone. 

342. Recipe for the Cure of Distemper in Dogs. 

12 grains antimonial powder, 8 grains powdered foxglove, | 
drachm powdered nitre. To be made up into 10 doses if the 
dog is small, 7 if middling size, and 5 if large, and given in a 
small quantity of butter every other day. 



OF A PAST CENTURY. 95 

343. Spider's Web. 

The cobweb of cellars, barns, and stables is a valuable remedy 
in ague. It also allays diseased irritability and calms irritation 
both of body and mind often in a surprising manner. Some 
American physicians who have taken it say it produces a calm 
and delightful state of feeling, succeeded by a disposition to sleep. 
It will often thus tranquillise much better than opium or herbane. 
Its soothing properties point it out as a valuable palliative in the 
advanced stage of consumption, in asthma, in chronic hysteria 
and other spasmodic complaints. Dr R. Jackson details a re- 
markable case of asthma in which the tranquillising effects were con- 
spicuously evinced. The patient was unable to lie down in bed 
from a sense of suffocation, and was obliged to take the little 
sleep he could get in a half-sitting posture, being supported by 
pillows. In this distressing state he one night took 20 grains of 
the spider web, and obtained from it a sound sleep all night, a 
blessing to which he had been a stranger above six years. Dose — 
from 5 to 10 or 20 grains rolled into a pill. For ague, to be 
taken twice a day. 



: HUM 







iiillililiiiliilii'i^^^^^ ''''''.'ifi'iili4 




nm...,. 



tmiuuitmi^iiiwioi"' 



