
:^^pfmmrfy:im& 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 

COPYRIGHT OFFICE. ' 

No registration of title of thicK i 
as a preliminary to ciy^ghS^ 
^has^been found. ^.i"?'''^!" 

cy (Date)""" - 

(Apr. 5, 1901-5,000.) 



I^L?'-^ 




CopightN". 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



THE 

HYDE PARK CUISINE 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE WOMEN OF THE HYDE PARK BAPTIST CHURCH 

Mav, 1900 



The Windermere Press, 5648 Stony Island Avenue 



TWO COPIES MECEIVEO. 

L Ibrary cf COftgre«% 
Olflcc f tbt 

MAY 1 5 1900 

Hegltter of Cepyrlgiifft 






^./ 

v^^ 



Now good digfesticn waits on appetite and health on both* 

— Shakspearc 



But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 

— Owen Meredeth 



'^Or cloy the hun?;iy edge of appetite by bate imagination 
of a feast." 



"Some said, 'John, ptint it;' 
Others said, 'not so;* 

Som^ said *it might do gfood'^ 
Others said; 'no.''* 



INTROD UCTION 

BY PROFESSOR MARION TALBOT, THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 

As one industry after another has vanished from the house- 
hold, a tendency has arisen to belittle the importance of house- 
hold administration and to consider it more or less as drudgery. 
The newer sociological studies are however beginning to show 
that "in the centre called the home" are found the influences 
which to a large extent determine the character of the com- 
munity and society at large, and there is no department of 
the home which is of more importance to the family and the 
community than the kitchen. A few illustrations will prove 
this. A political economist has said that "Half the struggle for 
life is a struggle for food" as shown by the fact that the ma- 
jority of wage-earners spend more than half of their earnings 
for food. An eminent physician declares his belief that avoid- 
able errors in diet are responsible for more disease and wasted 
life than is alcoholic drink. 

In administering her kitchen the housekeeper should know 
how to keep from worrying, and how to save time, strength 
and money. If she has proper training and a fit sense of pro- 
portion as to what is essential and what is non-essential, there 
will be little difficulty in any of these directions. Moreover, 
she must know that food must be palatable, digestible and 
nourishing. Everybody sympathises with the little boy who 
asked his grandmother "to please not give him nutritious food, 
but food that tasted good." And yet, while the first requisite 
of good food is that it should be palatable, care must be taken 
to recognize the fact that the palate is a guide to food which 
is very easily and in our country very often perverted. 

Next in order comes digestibility, and here is a field for 
far more knowledge than a housekeeper can command with 
eve n extensive study of the subject. More food in this country 
is rendered useless for its purpose by poor cooking than can be 
estimated and much of this wastefulness is due to the desire to 
have the work done quickly. In general it may be said that 
the more hurriedly food is prepared the less palatable and the 
less digestible it is. A return to the slow cooking which was 
known in the days of the Dutch oven and the banishing of 



the present methods of using gas would be real steps in ad- 
vance. It must be remembered that the slow cooking demands 
less strength and time and attention from the cook than do 
the quick methods. 

The popular idea that the nutritive value of food can be 
judged from its cost is altogether incorrect. The housekeeper, 
too, needs even more to be on her guard against so-called 
"health foods" than against adulterations. They are frequently 
less wholesome for people with normal digestions than ordi- 
nary foods well prepared, besides involving a large waste of 
money and a wrong conception of the value of food. 

There is no more effective way of counteracting some of 
the vicious tendencies of the social world of today than by in- 
sisting upon simplicity in the preparation and serving of food, 
and every written or printed word that can help the house- 
keeper toward accomplishing this end is to be highly prized. 

Miss Marion Talbot, 

Dean of Women Uuiversity of Chicago. 



MARKETING 

Any article on marketing is necessarily unsatisfactory ; for 
no hard and fast rule can be laid down as to how to buy 
successfully. You must know first what you want to ac- 
complish. Your problem may be to furnish a dinner for twelve 
persons with an expenditure of ^24 ; or you may have to 
provide a family of six with three meals a day for a week for 
the same sum. Neither of these problems is a difficult one ; 
but both give opportunities for comparative degrees of success 
or failure. 

Good buying means getting good value for your money 
and choosing what is most suitable for the need of the delicate 
invalid, the breadwinner, or the sturdy, growing children. Too 
much attention cannot be paid to the children ; for they are the 
future citizens, and on them wisdom more than money must be 
expended. There is little excuse at the present day for the 
woman who has no knowledge of the physical needs of her 
children. 

A little experience teaches one how to choose good meat, 
fresh fruit, and vegetables. Longer experience will teach one 
how to substitute one vegetable for another. Prices, like sup- 
plies, vary from day to day. Luxuries can and should be bought 
sometimes, cheaper foods being sandwiched in and the ave- 
erage cost being kept within bounds. 

In choosing meats and poultry, until experience is gained, 
go to a reliable meat store. The law regulating the sale of dis- 
eased meats is so strict that there is little reason for fear from 
this source. Meat which is tough or that from animals which 
have not been well fed is often sold, and this should be care- 
fully guarded against. In buying meat, choose that which is 
of a bright red color, fine grained, and well mottled with fat. 
What are the best joints, each housekeeper must decide for her- 
self. She must know whether time or money is of the greater 
value. The best results for the benefit of the family are usually 
obtained when time is plentiful and well expended ; then good 
nourishment can be gotten from the cheapest and toughest of 
joints. 

There is economy in buying some articles in large quanti- 
ties ; but unless the household is large and there is a good 
place for storage, it is not advisable to buy perishable articles 
in quantities larger than can be quickly used. Canned goods, 
soups, sapolio, candles, starch, etc., do not deteriorate and so 
may be bought in bulk. In the case of other articles, much 
depends on the size of the family and the distance from the 
source of supplies. Miss Elizabeth Yeomans, 

Dean Wonan's Commons, University of Chicago. 



SOUPS 



Expect spoon meat — or bespeak a long spoon. 

^ — Shakespeare. 



TOMATO 

Take one can tomatoes, strain out all the pulp and seeds. 
Set on the fire with salt and pepper to taste, add also a little 
sugar. When the tomatoes come almost to a boil, add a pinch 
of soda, a little thickening made of teaspoon of flour smoothed 
in water; lastly add one pint milk and let the mixture come al- 
most to the boil. Do not allow it to boil, as the tomatoes will 
curdle. Mrs. W. B, Owen. 

CLAM 

Mince one onion very fine, boil it twenty minutes in a little 
water. Take one dozen clams minced very fine, then scald 
them in their own liquor; take one quart milk and boil sepa- 
rately; add together but do not let it boil. Pour immediately 
into tureen where minced parsley and small crackers or crou- 
tons are placed. Add pepper and salt and a lump of butter 

before putting into tureen. 

Mrs. Charles Allen Marsh. 

FRENCH TOMATO 

One quart can tomatoes, one pint hot water, one table- 
spoon sugar, one teaspoon salt, one small salt-spoon red pepper, 
one tablespoon butter, one heaping tablespoon chopped onion, 
one tablespoon corn starch. Put the tomatoes, water, sugar, 
,salt and pepper on to boil in a porcelain stew pan; put the 
butter in a small sauce pan and when it bubbles put in the 
onion. Fry five minutes, being careful not to burn it; add the 
corn starch and when well mixed stir in the tomatoes. Let it 
simmer ten minutes, add more salt and pepper if needed, strain 

and serve with toasted crackers. 

Marion Ousley Russell 



CORN PUREE 

One can corn, one quart milk, two tablespoons butter, one 
tablespoon flour, one teaspoon of grated onion, little pepper, 
yolk of one egg. Chop the corn, cook with one quart milk in 
double boiler. Take one tablespoon butter, brown it with the 
onion and the flour in skillet, then add second tablespoon but- 
ter, pour in gradually one pint cold milk. Strain cooked corn 
and add the second preparation; let thoroughly cook; just be- 
fore serving stir in one egg and salt. 

Mrs. B. S. Terry. 

PEANUT 

Shell one pint roasted peanuts; remove the red skin and 
roll the nuts fine. Make a thin cream soup of one pint milk 
and one pint water, thickened with one level tablespoon flour 
rolled into one heaping tablespoon butter. When this is cooked 
through, add the powdered nuts, salt and pepper. 

Contributed. 
CREAM 

Heat two quarts of milk. Put one-half cup melted butter 
in double boiler; when hot stir in one cup flour; let cook five 
to ten minutes, so the flour will not be raw, then add milk 
slowly, stir well, so it will be smooth. Any vegetable, either 
canned or fresh, may be added. Cook it well and strain. Or 
one can lobster or shrimp make a fine soup — cut up fine. 

Contributed. 
MOCK BISQUE 

Use double boiler. Two tablespoons butter, two table- 
spoons flour, one pint of milk and one pint of boiling water 
mixed; salt and pepper to taste. Mix butter and flour together 
in sauce pan and stir until thoroughly blended; then add about 
four ounces of the milk and water and stir constantly until 
boiling; continue to add liquid and let boil each time until all 
the milk and water .is added. Into this strain a can of tomatoes 
which has been cooked and to which a piuch of soda has been 
added. Mrs. Hutchinson. 



9 
BOUILLON 

Boil one large chicken, five pounds beef with bone, and one 
slice of ham slowly, putting on in cold water, keeping covered 
until meat is tender. Remove the meat, strain the liquor and 
when cold remove the grease. Season to taste and just before 
serving add one teacup of good sherry wine. Enough for 
sixteen cups. Mrs. F. W. Shepardson 

CLAM AND CELERY 

One cup clam broth, one cup stewed celery strained, two 
cups sweet milk, one tablespoon butter, one tablespoon flour, 
salt if need. Cut off the coarse stalks of the celery and stew 
with the tops, when tender strain through a coarse seive; wash 
six large clams, put on in a little water and set over a hot fire 
and let them cook until the shells open, strain off the broth and 
add the celery. Mix the butter and flour carefully ov.er the 
stove and add milk gradually, stirring until it all creams, then 
stir the milk into the broth — not the broth into the milk, or it 
will curdle it. Mrs. G. C. Baldwin. 

CREAM OF CELERY 

Cut four stalks of celery into small pieces, and cook forty 
minutes in sufficient water to make one quart when done. 
Mash through a colander, return to fire, have ready one quart 
boiling milk, which add, and season with a sprig of mace, a 
little onion, butter the size of an egg, salt and pepper to taste. 
Thicken with tablespoon of flour ; just before serving add a 
cup of whipped cream. Alma B. Simpson. 

SQUASH 

One-third cup of cooked squash, one pint of milk, one 
slice onion, one tablespoon butter, one and one-half table- 
spoons flour, one-half teaspoon of salt, a few grains of pepper 
and celery salt ; scald the milk with the squash and onion ; 
remove the onion; stir in butter and flour rubbed smooth; add 
seasoning, cook two or three minutes. Miss Sherwin, 

Boston School of Housekeeping 



10 
CELERY 

One pint milk, one tablespoon of butter, one head of 
celery, one-half slice of onion, one small piece of mace. Boil 
celery in a pint of water from 30 to 45 minutes (until tender.) 
Heat mace, onion and milk together. Mix flour with two 
tablespoons cold milk, add this to the boiling milk and cook 
ten minutes. Mash celery in the water in which it is boiled, 
stir it into the boiling milk, add butter, and season with pepper 
and salt to taste. Strain and serve at once, adding a cup of 
whipped cream in tureen. Mrs. T. W. Goodspeed. 

POTATO 

Six moderate-sized potatoes, three cups milk, one and one- 
half cups water, one and one-half small onions, three teaspoons 
salt, sprinkle of white pepper, three tablespoons flour, three 
tablespoons drippings. Boil the potatoes till soft, then 
drain and mash them. Cook the onion in the milk ; when the 
potatoes are mashed, add the scalded milk, salt and pepper; 
rub it through'a strainer ; melt the drippings in a small sauce- 
pan, add the flour and a little of the soup, if required, add the 
thickening to the soup, let it boil up and serve with croutons. 

Mrs. H. E. Slaught. 

CLAM CHOWDER 

One can clams, one-half dozen onions, one-half pound soda 
crackers, little salt and pepper, one pound salt pork, one-half 
dozen potatoes. Pour off juice of the clams and chop a little; 
cut pork into small pieces and try out in the pot ; slice pota- 
toes and onions ; when pork is well done put in a layer of 
onions and a layer of potatoes ; season well with pepper and 
salt ; just cover them with water, cover the pot close and boil 
half an hour or until they are done, then put in juice of clams 
and half pound soda crackers dipped for a moment in cold 
water ; have a quart of milk hot and pour in last of all. Ex- 
cellent. Mrs. a. O. Parker. 



FISH 



This fish was. well fished for. 

— Shakspeare. 

It is unseasonable and unwholesome in all months that have not an 
R" in their name to eat an oyster. — Butler (1599), " Djets, Dinner." 



CHOWDER OF CLAMS AND CELERY 

Cook three dozen Little Neck clams in a quart and a half 
of water until the shells open. Remove the shells and the 
beards of the clams when cooked. Heat a pint of cream and 
a pint of milk to boiling. Have the clam broth hot and 
reduced by boiling to about one quart. Mix these hot liquids. 
Thicken with one tablespoon of flour and two ounces of butter. 
Cut about two ounces of fat salt pork into tiny squares and 
fry, without browning, in a pan with a little grated onion. 
Crush five hard Bent's crackers into small pieces. Chop a 
stalk of celery and cook in a little soup stock. Add the salt 
pork, the crushed cracker, the celery, and the potato to the 
clam broth, and salt and pepper to taste. 

Mrs. H. R. Brainard, 

Home Delicacy Association. 

FISH TURBET IN SHELLS 

One pint cooked fish meat, four tablespoons bread crumbs, 
two yolks hard-boiled eggs, one tablespoon butter, two table- 
spoons flour, one cup cream or milk, one tablespoon chopped 
parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Scald the milk, rub the 
butter and flour together until smooth, add the hot milk and 
stir until it thickens, add the bread crumbs and stir for two 
minutes over hot water. Take from the fire, add the fish, 
parsley and seasoning. Mix gently, that the fish may not 
become stringy. Fill the greased shells, brush over with 
beaten egg, cover with fine bread crumbs, and bake in a quick 
oven. Alice Ayling. 



12 
OYSTER AND BACON SAUTE 

Twent3'-four oysters, two ounces bacon cut fine (or six thin 
slices), half-saltspoon cayenne. Optional: One tablespoon 
finely grated celery or half-saltspoon celery salt; one table- 
spoon finely chopped parsley; half-saltspoon onion juice. Crisp 
bacon in hot pan. Dry oysters, dip in flour and add to crisped 
bacon. Cook till mantle curls. May be served on toast. 

Miss Harmer. 
FISH LOAF 

Take a left-over of creamed codfish, add bread crumbs or 
wheatena until the mixture is thick enough to hold together, 
season with salt and pepper. Steam, or bake in the oven until 
heated through. Serve with Hollandaise sauce. 

Miss Sherwin, 

Boston School of Housekeeping. 

BAKED FISH WITH OYSTER FILLING 

Rub fish with soft butter and seasoning, dredge with flour. 
Put strips of cotton cloth in pan and lay in fish. When flour 
has browned baste with pork fat. 

Oyster filling: One pint oysters, one cup seasoned butter 
cracker crumbs. Drain and roll each oyster in crumbs and 
lay in cavity of fish. Miss Althea Harmer, 

University Primary 5'cliool. 

STUFFING FOR FISH 

Two cups breadcrumbs, the juice of one lemon, one-fourth 
cup of melted butter, one and one-half teaspoons of salt, one 
teaspoon of chopped parsley, two cups of hot water. 

Miss Sherwin, 

Boston School of Cooking. 

LOBSTER CUTLETS 

One can lobster rubbed rubbed fine, one tablespoon melted 
butter, one egg, salt and pepper. Form in flat cakes, roll in 
egg and bread crumbs, and fry in bacon drippings. 

Mrs. N. I. Getz. 



13 
OYSTER PATTIES 

One quart oysters, one pint milk, one cup oyster liquor, 
four level tablespoons butter, four level tablespoons flour, a 
few drops onion juice. Cream butter and flour, add hot milk, 
salt and pepper, and cook in double boiler until smooth. Add 
oysters ; when thoroughly hot pour into hot patty shells, 

Mrs. L. C. Haynes. 

CREAMED OYSTERS 

Drop cooked oysters in a sauce made by boiling one pint 
cream for every pint of uncooked oysters. While the cream is 
heating melt one heaping tablespoon of butter and when it 
boils stir into it two heaping tablespoons flour, cook three 
minutes, stirring all the time; to this add slowly the boiling 
cream and rub smooth; when the oysters have boiled in this 
sauce place in a shell, sprinkle with fine bread crumbs and 
brown quickly in the oven. Mrs. C. F. Castle. 

OYSTER CANAPES 

Toast as many slices of bread as required, trim the edges, 
and keep warm until needed. Put two tablespoons of butter 
to quart of oysters in a very hot frying pan ; when butter is 
melted, but not browned, pour in the oysters which have been 
previously drained ; pepper and salt to taste. The edges of 
the oysters will curl if the pan is sufficiently heated, in a few 
moments. Serve immediately. Mrs. W. F. Farmer. 

FILLING FOR OYSTER PATTIES 

For one dozen crusts : One quart medium sized oysters, 
butter the size of an egg, three heaping tablespoons flour, one 
pint sweet cream. Melt the butter and stir in the flour ; have 
the cream come to the boiling point and stir the butter and 
flour into it. Drain the oysters and let the liquor come to a 
boil and skim, then add the oysters and let them come to a 
boil, then stir all together and fill the crusts, which should be 
heated in the oven first. Mrs. A. H. McGrew. 



14 
CREAM FINNAN HADDIE, 

Half of a two and one-fourth pound Finnan haddie, picked 
up and braised in butter, one cup cream, one hard boiled egg cut 
up in small squares, yolk of one raw egg, one teaspoon grated 
Edam cheese, or two teaspoons American cheese. Thicken 
with a little flour and cook seven or eight minutes. Serve on 
small pieces of dry toast. Mrs. B. W. Bingham. 

PUREE OF SALMON 

Remove oil, bones and skin from one-half can of salmon, 
chop fine. Add to salmon one quart white sauce, one table- 
spoon butter, two tablespoons flour, one quart milk. 

Miss Althea Harmer. 

CODFISH A LA MODE 

Two cups of codfish, two cups of mashed potatoes, two 
eggs beaten separately, one-half cup butter, one cup cream or 
rich milk, a little pepper. Pour boiling water over codfish 
three or four times, to extract salt, then chop very fine. The 
potatoes should be strained through a colander or sieve. Mix 
all the ingredients well together, and bake twenty-five minutes. 

Mrs. W. F. Farmer. 

SALMON LOAF 

One can salmon, one cup grated bread crumbs, four well 
beaten eggs, one-half cup melted butter, salt and pepper to 
taste. Take the bones out of the salmon and expose to the air 
one hour. Rub the fish until it is fine; add the butter and stir 
until smooth; to this add the crumbs and eggs previously 
mixed together; make into a loaf and put the loaf into a pan 
with plenty of drippings; sprinkle with bread crumbs and bits 
of butter and bake forty minutes. 

Sauce: One and one-half tablespoons corn-starch, one 
pint cream, one-half cup butter, three teaspoons capers. Heat 
the cream in a double boiler and thicken with the corn-starch, 
then add the butter and capers; pepper and salt to taste. 

Mrs. C. F. Castle. 



15 
BOILED FISH 
Wash, fish, remove fins and scales. Place in a drainer 
which is placed in a kettle of boiling water, salted. Cook 
gently. Allow ten minutes for each pound and ten minutes 
extra. Garnish with parsley and lemon. Serve it with a white 
sauce as gravy. Mary Bass. 

PIGS IN BLANKETS 
Wrap each seasoned oyster in a thin slice of bacon, and 
fasten with a wooden skewer. Brown in hot pan until the 
bacon is crisp. ^ Miss Althea Harmer. 

SAUTE OF SMELTS 
Dip smelts in seasoned flour, then in melted butter, and 
again in the flour. Brown in hot butter. 

Miss Althea Harmer. 

BOSTON FISH BALLS 
Roll salt codfish tightly in a thin cloth and drop into pot 
of boiling potatoes, when they are partly cooked. Rice the 
potatoes when cooked and chop the fish. Beat one egg, one 
spoon of corn starch, one of butter, a pinch of pepper, a half 
cup of boiled milk and two cups of riced potatoes together. 
Stir in lightly one cup of fish ; deftly mold with flour into 
small, round balls. Drop into a wire basket and plunge into 
boiling fat. This should be cotton seed oil and suet in equal 
parts. Fry a golden brown and send at once to the table. 

Mrs. Talbot. 
CODFISH BALLS 

One cup salt codfish, shredded and free from bones ; one 
pint potatoes peeled and quartered; three pints boiling vyater; 
one egg; one teaspoon butter; put fish and potatoes in kettle, 
pour over water and cook until potatoes are done ; drain off 
water, mash, add butter and well beaten egg ; beat until light; 
drop a tablespoon of this mixture in a kettle of deep boiling 
lard, dipping the spoon in first to prevent sticking, each time. 

Mrs. Rothman. 



16 
PUREE OF CLAMS 

One pint boiled clams ; remove dark substance ; chop 
hard portion fine. Add to clams, one pint cream sauce, one 
tablespoon butter, one tablespoon flour, one pint cream. Serve 
very hot. Miss Althea Harmer. 

WHITE FISH A LA CREME 

Take two pounds white fish, clean, tie in a napkin, and 
boil in-salt water ten minutes. While fish is cooking make a 
dressing of one pint of milk, a sprig of mace and half an onion. 
Let come to a boil and strain to remove mace and onion, then 
thicken milk with one and one-half tablespoons flour, and pour 
over the beaten yolks of two eggs. Add butter the size of a 
walnut, a sprig of parsle}^ salt to taste. When fish is done 
remove napkin, when it will fall apart and the bones can be 
easily lifted out. Pick the fish into small bits and put into a 
baking dish a layer of fish and dressing alternately until all is 
used, having the top layer of dressing. Sprinkle with bread 
crumbs and bits of butter. Bake in oven twenty to thirty 
minutes. Alma B. Simpson. 

SALMON LOAF 

Beat two eggs, add four tablespoons melted butter, cup 
bread crumbs, and the fish contained in a pound can of salmon, 
from which the liquor has been drained and set aside for use 
in the sauce; salt and pepper to taste. Steam in a buttered 
dish one hour. 

Sauce: One egg beaten lightly, two tablespoons melted 
butter and one tablespoon corn-starch; after mixing stir in one 
cup scalding milk, cook for a moment and add the liquor. 

Mrs. a. Decker. 

FRIED OYSTERS 

One quart select oysters, two eggs well beaten, one-half 
pound crackers, rolled fine; drain the oysters, dip in the egg and 
roll in cracker-crumbs; fry in butter, with enough lard added to 
keep from burning. Mrs. James Peabody; 



MEATS AND SAUCES 



Oh, the roast beef of Old England! and oh, the old 
English roast beef! — Fielding. 



FILLET OF BEEF WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE 

Have fillet larded; put one small onion sliced, one carrot, 
a few pieces of celery, four cloves and a sprig of parsley in the 
bottom of baking pan, and then put in the fillet; dredge with 
pepper and spread with butter; put a teaspoon of salt and a 
cup of water or stock-. Bake in a quick oven, basting with 
melted butter four or five times; place in hot platter. Put in 
the pan one pint boiling water or stock and let simmer; 
thicken with two ounces of butter browned with two tablespoons 
flour; add a can of French mushrooms, cook five minutes. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper and a tablespoon of tomato catsup. 

Mrs. Ernest D. Burton. 

MEAT PIE 

One and one-half pounds round steak, 1 small onion, a 
little parsely, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-quarter teaspoon 
cloves, one teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon pepper; boil to- 
gether until the meat is tender, then thicken a very little. 

Crust: One egg, one and one-half cups milk, two cups 
flour, two teaspoons baking-powder. Put meat in a pan and 
pour batter over it, allowing the gravy to come above the 
batter. Ivah Emmons. 

MOCK DUCK 

One pound flank steak, well pounded; dressing as for 
chicken — bread crumbs, salt, pepper, sage or onion and a little 
melted butter. Roll in steak and tie carefully with string. 
Bake in covered pan one-half to three-fourths hour. Make 
gravy by thickening and seasoning the water in pan. 

Mrs. J. Archy Smith. 



18 
TOMATO SAUCE 

Put into saucepan one pint of tomatoes, one-half onion, 
a sprig of parsley and a piece of celery. Cook five minutes. 
Mix in another saucepan one tablespoon butter and one of flour, 
until thick. Strain tomatoes and add with one-half teaspoon 
of salt a dash of red pepper, one tablespoon of sugar and a 
little catsup. Let come to boiling point. 

Mrs. Ernest D. Burton. 

SWEDISH HAMBURG STEAK 

One pound steak, one-fourth pound fresh pork, one cup of 
mashed potatoes, one-half cup of bread crumbs, one egg, one- 
half onion ; salt and pepper to taste. Have the pork and steak 
chopped together. Mix thoroughly with the other ingredients 
and roll into small balls and fry. Mrs. D. H. Lingle. 

BEEF LOAF 

One pound round steak well chopped, one egg well beaten* 
four crackers rolled fine, butter size of an egg, melted ; pepper, 
salt, sage, or one small onion chopped. Make into loaf and 
roll in flour. Bake in covered pan three-fourths of an hour 
and serve hot. Mrs. J. Archy Smith. 

PRESSED VEAL 

Boil a shin of veal in four quarts of water; when well done 
pick out bones, chop fine and season with salt and pepper and 
finely chopped parsley; mix well with two crackers rolled fine 
and the water that remained after boiling; put in a mould with 
weight on top; let stand until firmly pressed. Hard boiled 
eggs may be inserted in the mould. H. G. Walker. 

BAKED HAM 

For every pound of ham boil one hour; when done dress 
and remove bone; then rub with brown sugar and .stick full of 
cloves; then bake one hour, basting with one cup vinegar and 
two cups water, or one cup wine and two cups water. 

Mrs. C. A. Marsh. 



19 
MEAT SOUFFLE 

Make one cup white sauce, using one cup milk, one table- 
spoon butter and one tablespoon flour. Stir one cup finely- 
chopped meat into the sauce, creamed with parsley and onion 
juice, and when hot add the beaten yolks of two eggs; cook 
one minute and set away to cool. When cool, stir in whites 
beaten stiff. Bake in a buttered dish about twenty minutes. 

Mrs. McLean. 
BOUDINS 

Add to one pint of finely chopped cold meat one teaspoon 
salt and one-fourth teaspoon of pepper ; put into a sauce- 
pan one-half cup water, one tablespoon butter and two 
tablespoons bread crumbs; stir until it comes to boiling point ; 
add two eggs well beaten, and one teaspoon of onion juice and 
stir into the meat. A little catsup may be added. Put in 
greased moulds or gem pans and stand the moulds in a pan of 
hot water. Bake in a quick oven ten or fifteen minutes. Serve 
with tomato sauce ; garnish with parsley, 

Mrs. Ernest Burton. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS 

Wash four large breast sweetbreads thoroughly in salted 
water, removing all fat, blood, etc.; boil until very tender; place 
for a few moments in cold water to whiten. Cut in pieces 
one-half inch square; add one can French mushrooms, split if 
large, without the liquor. To the water in which sweetbreads 
were boiled add one-half pint of milk, thicken with flour and 
one tablespoon of butter; when cream is thick add sweetbreads^ 
mushrooms, and one well beaten egg. 

Mrs. F. W. Shepardson. 

BAKED MUTTONETTES 

Fill a baking dish two-thirds full with sliced potatoes, 
seasoned with salt and pepper; cover with lamb chops fastened 
in rounds by skewers. Fill the dish one-half full of water 
and bake three-fourths hour. Mrs, Decker. 



20 
CHOPS IN GREEN AND WHITE GARNISH 

Broil chops; put them on a bed of mashed potato, garnish 
with potato and puree of peas. 

Puree of Peas: Use coarse marrowfat peas. Stew until 
soft, mash through a strainer into warm bowl, return to kettle 
and evaporate; moisten until proper consistency. 

Garnishing: Moisten pastry bag, fill one-half of bag with 
potato, the other half with puree of peas; have platter over 
pan of boiling water and garnish, using rose tube. 

Miss Althea Harmer, 

University Primary School. 

VEAL LOAF 

Five pounds veal, one slice salt pork, a small piece butter, 
one tablespoon salt, one teaspoon pepper, one teaspoon sage. 
Chop all together fine. Add five Boston crackers rolled fine, 
two eggs; make into a loaf, roll in flour and bake two hours. 

Mrs. L. M. Peirce. 

VEAL BIRDS 

Get slices of veal from the loin ; remove the bones, skin 
and fat and pound until one-fourth of an inch thick ; trim into 
pieces two and one-half by four and one-half inches. Chop 
the trimmings fine with one square inch of fat salt pork for 
each bird. Add one-half as much fine cracker crumbs as you 
have meat. Season highly with salt, pepper, thyme, lemon 
and onion. Moisten with one egg and a little hot water. 
Spread the mixture on each slice nearly to the edge, roll up 
tightly and tie or sew. Dredge with salt, pepper and flour. 
Fry them slowly in hot butter until a golden brown. Then half 
cover with cream and simmer one hour. Remove the strings 
and serve on toast. Pour the cream over them. 

FRICASSEE CHICKEN 

Brown chicken in butter ; cover with cold water, bring 
quickly to a boil and simmer until tender. Thicken with one 
egg) o"^ tablespoon flour, juice of one-half lemon. 



21 
BISCUIT DOUGH FOR CHICKEN PIE 

One pint flour, two tablespoons butter, one egg, two tea- 
spoons baking powder, milk. Sift baking powder with flour; 
cut in the butter ; mix egg with half the milk. Mix enough 
to make a soft dough. 

CREAM CHICKEN 

Four and one-half pounds chicken, four sweetbreads, one 
can mushrooms. Boil chicken and sweetbreads; when cool 
cut up as for salad. Heat four cups of cream in saucepan. In 
another pan mix four tablespoons butter and five tablespoons 
flour; when melted pour on hot cream and stir until thick. 
Season with one-half onion grated, a little salt, red pepper and 
nutmeg. Put chicken, sweetbreads, mushrooms and cream in 
a baking dish, cover with bread crumbs and pieces of butter, 
and bake twenty minutes. Mrs. E. D. Burton. 

CHICKEN PIE 

Boil chicken until tender. When two-thirds done salt 
When cooked take out bones leaving meat in good sized pieces. 
Place in baking dish. To four cups stock add two tablespoons 
butter rubbed into three tablespoons flour and one cup cream. 

For crust : Two cups flour, one teaspoon salt, two tea- 
spoons baking powders, two tablespoons shortening rubbed 
into the flour. Mix with two cups milk and one egg well.beaten. 
Drop over pie with spoon and bake. 

Mrs. F. W. Shepardson. 

CROQUETTES 

Put one tablespoon butter and one-half cup milk in double 
boiler. When butter has melted add one beaten egg, salt, pep- 
per, and one tablespoon cornstarch. Remove from fire and 
cool. Have meat chopped fine; add one-half cup rolled crack- 
ers; to this stir in the cool mixture. Shape in balls, dip in 
beaten egg, roll in cracker crumbs and set aside three or four 
hours. Fry brown in hot lard. This is nice for turkey, veal, 
chicken or beef. Mrs. O. S. Bass. 



22 
OLIVE SAUCE 

One pint hot brown stock, four tablespoons minced onions, 
four tablespoons butter, four tablespoons flour, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, one-half saltspoon pepper, one tablespoon lemon 
juice, caramel or bay to color. Minced onion and brown in 
butter, then add flour and proceed as for white sauce. Cook 
24 olives in hot water for half hour, pare and add to brown 
sauce. Simmer ten minutes. Miss Harmer. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE 

One quart cranberries, one pint water, one cup sugar. Cook 
cranberries in a covered shallow dish with water; when the 
skins burst strain and add the sugar. Pour in mould and cool. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE 

One-half can mushrooms added to one cup brown sauce. 
Simmer three minutes. Miss Harmer. 



THINGS TO REMEMBER 



(The following suggestions which have been written in a 

' very condensed form, may perhaps serve as a guide to the 

housekeeper in the purchase of provisions in every day use, and 

among. which there is a greater liability of contamination or 

adulteration): 

Good meat should present a marbled appearance, from an 
intermixture of streaks of fat with muscle. This shows that 
the animal has been well fed. Both muscle and fat should be 
firm to the touch. The suet fat should be hard and white. 
The odor should be slight and by no means disagreeable. 

Good poultry should be firm to the touch and have a pink 
or yellowish color, while the smell should be fresh and not un- 
pleasant. Stale poultry becomes bluish in color, often green 
over the crop and abdomen, has a disagreeable odor, and the 
skin breaks readily. ' 

Game, according to modern ideas, must be in a state of 
decomposition before it is considered fit for the table. It is 
diflficult to decide when such a stage of decomposition has 
been reached as would warrant its use. When the flesh be- 
comes discolored, and the odor offensive, there is no doubt of 
its unwholesomeness, and it should be condemned. 

Fresh fish should be firm and without any disagreeable odor. 
If the whole fish is held out horizontally, there should be little 
dropping of the tail. 

Fruit and vegetables may become unwholesome from decay 
or disease, the principal indications of which are softening, dis- 
coloration and mouldiness. Unripe foods are certainly un- 
wholesome unless well cooked. 

Good potatoes should be of fair size, firm to the touch and 
when cooked should not be watery. Tinned fruits, vegetables 
and meats are generally more or less contaminated with tin, 



24 

but as the metal is not poisonous except in large doses, the 
small amount present is generally not sufficient to be injurious. 
Peas, French beans and pickles are often adulterated with cop- 
per to retain the fresh green color. This adulteration is injuri- 
ous and may be detected by leaving the clean blade of a knife 
in the liquor for a short time, when the copper will become de- 
posited on the blade. Good flour should be quite white, or 
onh^ slightly tinged with yellow; it should give no acidity nor 
musty flavor to the taste; it should not be gritty nor lumpy, 
nor should it have any odor of mouldiness. 

Good butter should give no unpleasant or rancid taste. If 
made in dairies where scrupulous cleanliness is not maintained, 
or if the milk is from 'cows not properly cared for, it is apt to 
become rancid and is often badly flavored. Fresh eggs when 
looked through are more transparent at the centre; stale ones 
at the top. In a solution of one part of salt to ten of water, 
good eggs sink while stale ones float. 

In oatmeal, if husks are present the meal is probabl}^ 
adulterated with barley. 

Any attempts at adulterations in tea are best detected by 
shaking the leaves in cold water, straining through muslin and 
afterward examining the leaves and deposit. Inferior mix- 
tures consist of exhausted tea leaves, leaves of other plants 
and iron filings. The test of tea of the first quality is to put a 
small quantity in a cup, pour water at the boiling point upon 
it, then allow it to stands until it cools, when it should throw 
up what is called a cream. The leaves when spread out should 
be small, serrated, elongated and liver-colored. 

In coffee the principal adulteration is chicory. The adul- 
teration may be detected b}^ sprinkling a small quantity on the 
surface of a bowl of water: the coffee will float and the chicory 
will sink. The presence of chicory may also be detected if on 
opening the package the coffee shows an}^ signs of caking. 



VEGETABLES 



" Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred 
therewith." 



SPINACH WITH CREAM 

Boil spinach, chop fine and keep hot. Make sauce of one 
tablespoon butter, yolks of two eggs, pepper, salt and one and 
one-half cups of cream, beaten. Heat slowly and stir into 
spinach. Serve in hot dish. 

PUREE OF SPINACH 

Cook in uncovered kettle with very little water until ten- 
der. Rub through very fine strainer, season with one cup cream, 
one-fourth cup vinegar for each quart of puree. Use to gar- 
nish meat or fish. 

SWEET POTATO BALLS 

Mash thoroughly the boiled sweet potatoes, season with 
salt, pepper and butter ; if necessary add hot milk until the 
mixture is of the right consistency to mold. Make into 
small balls. Flour lightly and saute in butter. 

Miss Sherwin. 

Boston School of Cooking. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES 

Three cups cold boiled potatoes cut into inch dice, one 
and one-half teaspoons salt and a speck of pepper sprinkled 
over the potatoes. Melt a teaspoon of butter in a frying pan; 
when smoking stir into it one teaspoon finely chopped onion. 
When onion is golden brown add the potatoes. Stir occasion- 
ally. When brown, two teaspoons finely chopped parsley, 
teaspoon vinegar or lemon juice. Serve hot. 

Mrs. H. E. Slaught. 



26 
DUCHESSE POTATOES 

Six fine potatoes, boiled, mashed and rubbed through a 
sieve. Add cream, yolks of two eggs well beaten, salt and pep- 
per. Beat together and make into balls and brown quickly in 
a hot oven. Mrs. C. F. Gardner. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS 

Select very small pea beans grown in California. After 
washing, let them soak in cold water all night, simmer on the 
back of the range very slowly two hours; drain in a colander 
and fill a two-quart earthen bean pot with a close mouth, full; 
crowd in a piece of salt pork striped with lean and scored 
through the skin. To a cup and a half of boiling water, add 
one large spoonful of molasses, a pinch each of salt, pepper 
and mustard and pour over the beans and cover closely. Bake 
in a slow oven all the afternoon and evening, adding boiling 
water through the evening, but never to cover the beans, else 
they will break and become mushy and the flavor be spoiled. 
Neither at any time let them become in the least dry. In the 
morning set the pot in a pan of boiling water in the oven and 
send to the breakfast table steaming hot. Mrs. Talbot. 

BEIGUETS DE TOMATOES 

Cut four tomatoes into slices; put them in a deep dish; 
season with pepper, salt, and sprinkle with teaspoon of chop- 
ped parsley, tablespoon of salad oil and one-half lemon. Make 
a batter of four ounces of flour, one tablespoon of oil, pinch of 
salt, one egg and a little warm water. Drop a piece of tomato 
into the batter, take out with fork; drop into boiling fat and 
fry a golden brown. Mrs. Jennings. 

PRESERVED PUMPKIN 

Six pounds pumpkin, six pounds sugar, three lemons, one- 
half pound ginger root; cut pumpkin into dice and put into 
dish with ginger, sugar and lemon; let stand over night. Cook 
next morning until a straw will pass through easily. 

Mrs. J. H. Boyd. 



27 
VEGETABLE CUPS 

Prepare hollow cups of potato, boil in salted water until 
nearly tender, or fry in deep fat. Fill with creamed peas, car- 
rots or cabbage. 

CREAMED CABBAGE 

Cut cabbage a little coarser than for slaw, steam for thirty 
■or thirty-five minutes, until it is tender but not yellow. Salt, 
and pour over a dressing of milk, butter and flour, as for cauli- 
flower. 

EGG PLANT 

Slice thin, pepper and salt each slice and lay one on the 
other. Place plate on top with weight, let stand an hour. 
Dip each slice in beaten yolk of egg, roll in bread or cracker 
crumbs and brown in butter. Mrs. C. E. Hewitt. 

CREAMED PARSNIPS 

Wash and boil parsnips. When done remove skin and cut 
in cubes. Make white sauce with three cups milk, six table- 
spoons flour, six tablespoons butter, three tablespoons chopped 
parsley, one tablespoon salt. Melt the butter and add flour 
and beat well. Then add milk, parsley and salt, cook until 
•creamy. Mary Bass. 

MACARONI 

Break one-fourth pound of macaroni into three inch pieces 
and boil in three pints salted water twenty or thirty minutes. 
Drain in colander. Pour on cold water and shake well. Cut 
into inch pieces. Put into a buttered baking dish and cover 
with a white sauce made with one and a half cups of hot milk 
stirred into one tablespoon butter and one tablespoon flour, 
cooked together. Add one-half teaspoon salt. Mix two- 
thirds cup fine cracker crumbs with one-third cup melted butter, 
and sprinkle on top. Bake until brown. If cheese is liked 
mix one-half cup of grated cheese with macaroni and crumbs. 

Mrs. B. H. Bingham. 



28 
BOSTON BAKED BEANS 

Soak one quart small navy beans in cold water over night. 
Place one-half pound lean salt pork in the bottom of a covered 
earthen bean pot in the morning; then pour in the beans. 
Season with one teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon each of black 
pepper, mustard and baking soda, and four tablespoons mo- 
lasses. Bake slowly, keeping the beans well covered with 
water until 4 o'clock, then remove cover. When done the 
beans should be whole with gravy in the bottom of pot. 

Mrs. C. p. Small. 

TURNIPS AND PEAS 

Peel turnips evenly and hollow out the inside with a 
spoon, making cup the size of an egg; let them stand in cold 
water an hour; boil in salt water until tender; prepare peas 
without cream; drain turnips and arrange on platter; fill with 
seasoned hot peas; garnish with parsley. 

Mrs. J. W. MoNCRiEF. 

TOMATO ASPIC 

One can tomatoes; strain and put in saucepan with one 
slice onion, two bay leaves, a few celery tops, one teaspoon 
salt, one-half teaspoon paprika; bring to boiling point and 
add three-fourths box gelatine soaked in one-half cup of cold 
water for half an hour. Mix until dissolved; add juice of one- 
half lemon and strain again. Pour in egg cups or small fancy 
moulds. Serve on lettuce with boiled salad dressing. 

Mrs. B. H. Bingham. 



SALADS AND DRESSINGS 



I think this word ' sailed ' was born to do me good." — Shakespeare. 



SALAD 

Equal parts of celery and apple, pared and cut in slices. 
Chestnuts, shell, blanch, boil till tender, cut in one-eighth inch 
strips and slice. Mix with cream dressing, garnish. 

Miss Althea Harmer, 

University Primary School. 

LINCOLN SALAD 

One quart oysters, parboiled, drained, cooled, cut in small 
pieces. Three cucumbers, pare, freshen in cold water, dry 
thoroughly, cut lengthwise in four or six pieces, remove 
large seeds, cut in small slices. Mix cucumbers and oysters, 
season, mix with uncooked dressing. Garnish with cress. 

Miss Althea Harmer, 

University Primary School. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

One saltspoon salt, one-half saltspoon pepper, three 
tablespoons oil, one-fourth teaspoon onion juice, one table- 
spoon vinegar. Mix in order given, adding oil slowly. 

Miss Althea Harmer, 

University Primary School. 

SALAD 

Blanch and peel one cup English walnut meats and break 
(not chop) into small pieces; add an equal measure of fineh^ 
cut celery; arrange cup of the smaller bleached lettuce leaves 
and fill with this mixture. Drop a dessert spoon of mayonnaise 
on each individual salad. Mrs. Silver. 



30 
SALAD DRESSING 

Two tablespoons sugar, one level tablespoon butter beaten 
together; add one level teaspoon mustard, one-half teaspoon 
salt, one-third teaspoon pepper and a tiny pinch red pepper, 
stir well; add yolks of three eggs and beat again; lastly add 
seven tablespoons vinegar; cook in double boiler removing as 
soon as thickened. When cool, add two tablespoons cream if 
desired. For some salads it is nicer without the cream. 

Mrs. J. W. MoNCRiEF. 

SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL 

Two eggs, one heaping teaspoon sugar, one-half teaspoon 
salt, one-quarter teaspoon mustard, three tablespoons vinegar,, 
one cup whipped cream. Beat eggs, add seasoning, vinegar 
and one tablespoon cream not whipped; cook in double boiler 
until thick; add cream before using. Dressing will keep several 
.days if cream is not added. Mrs. J. E. Raycroft. 

STUFFED TOMATO SALAD 

Select round tomatoes of equal size, peel and scoop from 
the stem and a part of the center. Place them on ice until 
ready to serve, then fill them with celery cut fine and mixed 
with Mayonnaise dressing. Let it rise above the top of the 
tomato. Put a little Mayonnaise on small lettuce leaves and 
place a stuffed tomato on the dressing in the centre of each 
leaf. Arrange them in a circle on a flat dish. 

Contributed. 

SALAD DRESSING 

Three eggs well beaten, one-half cup milk, butter size of 
an egg, one-fourth cup sugar, three-fourths cup vinegar, one 
heaping teaspoon mustard, one teaspoon salt, pinch red pepper. 
Mix all dry ingredients together, add eggs, pour in hot milk, 
add vinegar slowly. Take from fire, set in a dish of cold water 
and stir until cold. Use double boiler. 

Mrs. a. O. Parker. 



31 
SALAD DRESSING 
One cup oil, yolk one egg, one level teaspoon mustard, one 
leA^el teaspoon powdered sugar, one saltspoon salt, pinch red 
pepper. Stir mustard, sugar, salt and pepper dry into the Qgg. 
When well mixed add oil a drop at a time at first, then a hair 
stream. This may be beaten with an egg beater. Add juice 
one-half lemon and one teaspoon vinegar. Thin with cream 
when ready for use. Mrs. F. B. Lester. 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING 
Two raw egg yolks, two hard boiled egg yolks, one table- 
spoon prepared mustard. Have dishes used and oil very cold. 
Rub raw and boiled yolks together with silver fork until smooth, 
then add oil a tablespoon or so at a time, mixing each time 
thoroughly before adding more. Use oil according to taste, a 
cup may easily be used, more or less as wished. When oil is. 
thoroughly blended, add salt, pepper, mustard and thin to 
proper consistency with vinegar or lemon juice— vinegar with 
vegetable salads and lemon juice for meat or fish. By using 
the hard boiled yolks, the oil will never curdle the mixture. 

Mrs. Rothman. 

POTATO SALAD 

Eight good sized boiled potatoes cut into cubes, one-fourth 
as much celery as potato, one small onion chopped fine, four 
hard boiled eggs. 

Dressing: The yolks of four well beaten eggs, two tea- 
spoons each of salt, mustard and sugar, one cup vinegar, 
butter size of an egg. Cook and strain. When cold add one 
cup cream. Mrs. C. H. Rice. 

TOMATO AND ASPARAGUS SALAD 

Take medium size sound tomatoes, peeland scoop out a 
little of the stem end; have ready the tender tips of boiled 
asparagus; insert three or four of these into the hole made in 
the end of tomatoes. Serve with Mayonnaise dressing. 

Mrs. Baxter. 



32 

ORANGE SALAD 

Yolks of two eggs, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon mus- 
tard (scant), one teaspoon sugar very heaping, one tablespoon 
cornstarch very heaping, one-half cup vinegar, one large cup 
sweet or sour cream, butter one-half size of an egg. Mix salt, 
sugar, cornstarch, mustard and a little vinegar before adding 
the well beaten yolks of eggs. Then add cream and \'inegar 
and cook in double boiler. Stir until it thickens. Halve 
the oranges and divide into sections; pile on lettuce 
leaves; put salad dressing on top and three or four halves of 
English walnuts on top of dressing. Serve with salted crackers. 

Mrs. J. Archy Smith. 

ROYAL SALAD 

One head of head lettuce, one stalk celery, one ripe to- 
mato, two hard-boiled eggs, all cut into convenient size for use. 

Dressing: One teaspoon made mustard, one teaspoon 
salt, one-fourth teaspoon black pepper, oli^'e oil and vinegar in 
equal quantifies to make one-half to three-fourths cup. Mix 
all together, turn on salad, stir and ser^'e. Contributed. 

CELERY SALAD 

Cut celery into small slices, add an equal amount of Eng- 
lish walnuts chopped coarse, pour Mayonnaise dressing over 
this mixture and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. C. F. Gardner. 

SALAD DRESSING FOR TOMATOES WITHOUT OIL 

Yolks four eggs well beaten, one-half cup butter, one table- 
spoon sugar, one teaspoon prepared mustard, one-half gill vin- 
egar. Mix these together and set over boiling water, stirring 
until thick. Whip with egg beater till light and stand in cold 
place. Just before serving add a pinch of cayenne pepper, the 
juice of half a lemon and a half cup cream whipped until 
thick. Heap a large spoonful of this dressing on half of an ice 
cold tomato laid on crisp white leaves of head lettuce. 

Mrs. Ella M. Burns. 



33 

TOMATO JELLY FORM FILLED WITH CELERY 
MAYONNAISE 

Crush a can of nice rich tomatoes through a sieve to ob- 
tain all the juice. Put on to cook, adding a stalk of celery, a 
small piece of onion, a bay leaf, a whole small pepper and a 
few cloves. Cook until slightl}^ flavored by all these vegeta- 
bles and spices. Strain through a fine cloth or sieve. To this 
liquid add one tablespoonful of Tarragon vinegar for every 
quart and one box of gelatine. Cox's will do, which has been 
previously soaked for some hours in about half a cup of water. 
Strain and set in individual moulds. To make a hollow, cup- 
shaped form, put a little mould inside a large one and pour 
the liquid in between. Let the moulds set in ice until the to- 
mato jelly has hardened. When set, pour hot water into the 
inner mould and let it stand until the mould loosens from the 
jelly. Then you have a hollow mould of tomato jelly. Fill 
this -with celery Mayonnaise, and pour a little more of the 
liquid tomato on the top. Let this harden and then add a 
tablespoonful more of the tomato to eaph form, so that the 
Mayonnaise and oil will not soak through the jelly. The 
moulds must be kept in ice until time to serve. To serve, set 
the moulds into warm water, but remove quickly so that the 
jelly will not melt too much. Turn the contents of the moulds 

out on to lettuce leaves. Mrs. H. K. Brainard, 

Home Delicacy Association. 

CREAM DRESSING 

Two large tablespoons butter, one egg, one tablespoon 
water, one tablespoon vinegar, three tablespoons whipped 
cream, one-fourth teaspoon salt, one-half saltspoon mustard^ 
one-half saltspoon paprika. Beat yolks in saucepan, then add 
vinegar and water and cook over hot water until egg thickens^ 
stirring constantly. When thick and smooth stir in gradually 
the creamed butter. When ready to serve stir in equal amount 
thick whipped cream or white of one egg. 

Miss Althea Harmer, 

University Primary School. 



.34 
MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

One teaspoon mustard, one-half teaspoon salt, one-fourth 
saltspoon cayenne, yolk of two raw eggs, one pint oil, two 
tablespoons vinegar, two tablespoons lemon juice. Blend sea- 
soning, then add eggs. Stir well. Add oil very slowly, blend- 
ing each portion thoroughly before adding more. When the 
dressing is thick, thin with lemon juice, then add acid and oil, 
alternately. Miss Althea Harmer, 

University Primary School. 

UNCOOKED DRESSING 

One-half pint cream, two tablespoons lemon juice, one- 
lialf teaspoon salt, one saltspoon paprika, one-fourth cup grated 
liorseradish. Miss Althea Harmer, 

University Primary School. 



BREAD 



"He that will have a cake of the wheat must needs tarry the grinding." 
-Shakespeare. 



PLAIN BREAD 

One cup scalded milk, or equal parts milk and water, one 
fourth cup butter, three yeast cakes for two hour bread or one- 
half yeast cake if set over night, one tablespoon sugar, one- 
half teaspoon salt, white one egg, three or four cups of flour. 
Make sponge. Let stand in pan of warm water until full of bub- 
bles, then add flour, knead and mould into loaves, let rise until 
double in size. Bake. Miss Althea Harmer. 

CONNECTICUT BROWN BREAD 

One cup rye, graham or whole wheat flour, one cup yel- 
low corn meal, one cup wheat flour, one even teaspoon of salt, 
one cup of molasses, one cup of milk — if sour dissolve in it 
one and one-half teaspoon soda; if sweet, one teaspoon soda 
and one-half teaspoon baking powder — one cup hot water, one 
tablespoon melted butter, mix as given. Steam in a covered 
cylindrical pail two and one-half or three hours. Uncover and 

bake in oven one-half hour. Miss Sherwin, 

Boston Cooking School. 

HICKORY NUT ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD 

One and one-half cups sweet millk, one ounce butter, a 
small piece yeast, one tablespoon sugar, one small teaspoon 
salt; mix stiff with one-third of white flour and the rest of en- 
tire wheat flour, adding during the mixing four ounces of cut 
hickory nuts. Let it rise and then knead again and mould into 

a loaf for baking. Mrs. H. K. Brainard, 

Home Delicacy Association. 



36 
- GRAHAM ROLLS 

One pint hot water, one tablespoon butter, one heaping- 
tablespoon granulated sugar, one heaping teaspoon salt, one- 
half pound (equal to one pint) white flour, one pound (equal to 
one quart) graham flour, sifted; one-fourth cup New Orleans 
molasses, one-fourth teaspoon soda, beaten into the molasses; 
one cake compressed yeast dissolved in a small cup of luke- 
warm water. Melt the butter in the pint of hot water and add 
the sugar and salt to it; sift the white flour into the bread 
bowl and pour the water (which should be at this timie only 
warm) into it a little at a time, to prevent lumping. Add the 
graham flour (sifted) to this and then the molasses, which 
should have been heated and the soda put into it and allowed 
to cool to blood heat. It should be foaming when put into 
the flour and water. Beat hard, stir in the yeast, cover and set 
in a warm place to rise. When the sponge is light add enough 
sifted white flour to make a soft dough. Knead well, make into 
rolls, and put in buttered pans to rise; when light, bake in a 
slow oven three-fourths of an hour. Can rise overnight and 
bake in the morning, or be mixed in the morning and be ready 
for tea; also can be made into loaves and baked one and one- 
half hours in a slow oven. Mrs. Eckels. 

ENTIRE WHEAT BISCUITS (FRANKLIN FLOUR) 
Three cups of entire wheat placed in a bowl, to which is 
added three teaspoons of baking powder, two tablespoons of 
sugar and a little salt; after they are thoroughly mixed add 
two beaten eggs and a cup of milk. Have ready a kettle of 
boiling fat, dip a teaspoon into cold milk and then into batter, 
and drop into the boiling fat. Miss Thompson. 

SOUTHERN SOFT-CORN PONE 
Scald one cup corn meal to the consistency of mush; add 
one heaping tablespoon lard or butter, two beaten eggs, two 
cups sour milk, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon salt. Bake 
in a pudding dish three-quarters of an hour. Serve with a 
spoon. Mrs. Effinger. 



37 
PERFECT ROLLS 

Pour one pint boiling milk over one quart sifted flour, two 
tablespoons sugar, two of butter, one of lard, and a little salt. 
When lukewarm add one-half cup of yeast. Mix early in the 
morning, knead at noon adding flour enough for rolls. When 
light roll thin, cut with biscuit cutter, roll oblong, spread a 
little butter on one end and roll over. Place in pans, let them 
rise and bake ten or fifteen minutes. These are nice biscuits, 
and should be sponged at night in cold weather. 

Mrs. Jennings. 

BROWN BREAD 

One cup sweet milk, one large teaspoon of soda in one 
cup of sour milk, one cup of flour, two cups of corn meal, one 
cup of molasses, a little salt. Steam two hours. Place in oven 
a few rr^inutes after steaming. Irma Rice. 

RYE MUFFINS 

Mix one cup rye flour, one-fourth cup sugar, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, one cup wheat flour, two teaspoons baking powder. 
Beat one egg and add one cup water (or milk) and stir into 
the dry ingredients. Mrs. O. S. Bass. 

CHICAGO MUFFINS 

Two scant cups flour, one cup sweet milk, two teaspoons 
baking powder, one egg, butter half the size of an egg, two 
tablespoons sugar, pinch of salt. Mix dry ingredients. Beat 
egg and add to the milk; beat to a good batter with the other 
ingredients; add butter (melted) and bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. C. H. Burton. 

EGG ROLLS 

Two eggs well beaten, one scant teacup milk, one rounded 
tablespoon of lard or butter, melted, two rounded teaspoons 
baking powder, enough flour to make a soft biscuit dough. 
Roll out, cut in circles, butter and fold over like pocket-book 
rolls. Bake in quick oven. Mrs, J. Archy Smith. 



GOLDEN CREAM TOAST. 

Cut bread into even pieces; toast, butter and moisten them 
with hot water. Boil. six eggs hard, separate the whites from 
the yolks, chop the whites and press the yolks through a sieve. 
Make a white sauce, using one tablespoon each of butter and 
flour cooked together, and then add a cup of cream or milk. 
When it is well thickened add the chopped whites and season 
with pepper and salt. Spread this mixture on the slices of 
toast and cover evenly with the mashed yolks. Serve very 
hot. Mrs. Matthews. 

GRIDDLE CAKES 

One pint sour milk, one pint flour, two eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately, one level teaspoon soda crushed fine 
and sifted with one-half teaspoon salt and flour three times. 
Add whites just before baking. Mrs. Rothman. 

WAFFLES 

One and one-half pints of flour, two heaping teaspoons 
baking powder, one teaspoon salt; sift this together; add sweet 
milk enough to make thin batter, stirring briskly. Add the 
beaten yolks of three eggs, one-half cup melted butter, stirring 
constantly, then stir in very carefully the whites of three eggs 
beaten stiff. Have irons hot. Mrs. O. S, Bass. 

COFFEE CAKE 

Two cups bread sponge, one egg well beaten, one-half cup 
sugar, one tablespoon butter, one cup tepid water, flour for a 
thin dough. Let double in bulk. Roll out one inch thick, 
place in baking tin, let rise until light. Divide dough in three 
portions. 

First portion : Add one cup of currants and raisins. 
Brush top with one egg and one teaspoon sugar, mixed. 

Second portion : Brush dough with sugar and egg water. 
Sprinkle with granulated sugar and blanched chopped almonds. 

Third portion: Twist dough and shape into rings. Cover 
with nuts and sugar. Miss. Althea Harmer. 



39 
CINNAMON BUNS 

One pint milk, two tablespoons butter, one-half teaspoon 
salt, three eggs well beaten. Scald milk, add butter and salt^ 
pour over eggs when tepid. Add one-half cake yeast dissolved 
in warm water, flour to make a drop batter. Beat until 
smooth. Stand in warm place to grow light, then add flour to 
make a soft dough. Knead until smooth. Let rise again, then 
turn on board and roll one-half inch thick. Spread with soft 
butter, granulated sugar, currants, cinnamon. Roll up like 
jelly-roll, cut in two inch slices, stand slices on end. When 
light, bake forty minutes in moderate oven. 

Miss Althea Harmer. 

FRIED INDIAN MUFFINS 

One pint Indian meal, one pint boiling water, two eggs, 
one teaspoon salt, one tablespoon sugar, one heaping table- 
spoon flour. Pour the boiling water gradually on the meal, 
salt and sugar; beat thoroughly and set away in a cool place. 
In the morning add the eggs well beaten and the flour. Dip a 
tablespoon in cold milk, fill it with batter, and drop into boil- 
ing fat. Cook ten minutes. Miss Thompson. 

DROP BISCUIT 

With a pint of flour mix two teaspoons of sugar, one-half 
teaspoon of salt, one and one-half teaspoons of baking powder. 
Rub in one tablespoon of butter and add milk until too stiff to 
stir but not stiff enough to knead. Drop on buttered tins a 
distance apart. Bake ten or twelve minutes in quick oven. 

Mrs. W. I. Getz. 

MOST DELICIOUS WAFFLES 

One cup of buttermilk, one cup of flour, one egg, butter 
size of a hickory nut, one-half teaspoon soda, pinch of salt. 
Beat the white of the egg and add just before baking. 

H. T. H, 



CAKES 

"The doughty doughnut, the crisp and crumbling cruller; sweet cakes 
and short-cakes, ginger cakes and honey cakes and the whole family of 
cakes." — Irving's Sketch Book. 



FRENCH FRUIT LOAF 

Cream one cup of butter and two cups of sugar; then add 
one cup of sour cream, four cups of flour, one pound of raisins 
one-half pound of citron, one-half pound English walnuts, one 
wine glass of sherry, one wine glass of brandy, one nutmeg, 
two tablespoons cinnamon, one tablespoon alspice, one table- 
spoon cloves, one even teaspoon soda. Bake one hour in an 
oven suitable for baking bread. Mrs. H. K. Brainard, 

Home Delicacy Association. 

MOLASSES CAKE 

One egg, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup molasses, one- 
half cup shortening, one teaspoon soda dissolved in one-half 
cup hot coffee, two and one-fourth cups flour, salt, ginger 
and cinnamon. Mrs. Mason. 

ALMOND CRACKERS 

Boil one cup sugar in one-fourth cup of water until it 
hairs, then add the white of an egg and mix with one-fourth 
pound almonds chopped fine; spread quickly while warm on 
oblong wafers (not salted). Put in the oven until brown. 

Mrs. L. M. Peirce. 

DELICIOUS SOFT GINGERBREAD 

Two cups molasses, two-thirds cup butter, three cups flour, 
one teaspoon ginger (more if preferred,) two teaspoons soda 
dissolved in one cup sour milk. Beat thoroughly, adding the 
sour milk just before putting in the oven. Bake in two tins 
lined with paper as gingerbread burns easily. H. Y. H. 



42 
WHITE SUGAR COOKIES 

One and one-half cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, stir 
well together, then add one cup sweet cream, two well beaten 
eggs and flour to roll out into which your baking powder has 
been well sifted. Beat these cookies as you would a cake. 
Any seasoning desired. Flour enough can be stirred in so 
they can be rolled out easily. Bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. H. a. Jacobs. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE 

One-half cup sugar, one cup milk, one egg, one tablespoon 
butter, a little salt, three teaspoons baking powder, flour 
enough to make a batter. Put in two shallow pans, sprinkle 
mixed sugar and cinnamon over the top. Bake and eat warm 
with butter. Mrs. L. C. Haynes. 

GINGERBREAD 

One egg, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, one-half cup 
shortening, one tablespoon ginger, one-half teaspoon cinnamon, 
one-half teaspoon ground cloves, one teaspoon of soda in one 
cup of boiling water, three cups flour. Irma Rice. 

GINGERBREAD 

One egg, one-half cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, one- 
half cup shortening, one cup sour cream, one teaspoon soda, 
one tablespoon ginger, three and one-half cups flour. Bake in 
a slow oven. Mrs. C. Chandler. 

GINGER COOKIES 

One-half cup butter, one cup molasses, one- third cup sugar, 
one teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon soda in one-third cup hot 
water, pinch of salt. Flour enough to roll lightly. 

F. M. G. 
FRIED CAKES 

One cup sugar, two eggs, two tablespoons melted butter, 
one and one-half cups sour milk, one and one-half teaspoons 
soda (level), a little salt and nutmeg. Mrs. J. S. Carter. 



43 
SUNSHINE CAKE 

Whites of seven eggs, yolks of five eggs, one cup granu- 
lated sugar, two-thirds cup flour, one-third teaspoon crearrb 
tartar, pinch of salt. Sift, measure, and set aside flour and 
sugar as for angel cake. Beat yolks thoroughly, then whites 
about half, add cream of tartar and beat until very, very stiff; 
stir in sugar lightly, then beaten yolks, and lastly the flour. 
Bake in tube pan about thirty-five to fifty minutes, moderate 
oven. F. I. C. 

ORANGE CAKE 

Yolks of eight eggs, one-half cup butter^ one and one-half 
cups sugar, two and one-half cups flour, two-thirds cup milk, 
two teaspoons baking powder. Bake in layers. 

Filling: Yolks of four eggs, one and one-fourth cups 
milk, one-half cup sugar, two large teaspoons corn starch, 
grated rind and juice of one, orange. Do not put in orange 
until cream is nearly thick enough. Mrs. Bowen. 

GINGER SNAPS 

Two cups molasses, one large cup butter, one large cup 
sugar, two teaspoons ginger, two teaspoons soda. Boil mo- 
lasses and butter together; flour enough to roll out very thin. 

' Mrs. N. I. Getz. 

FRUIT COOKIES 

One and one-half cups sugar, one cup butter, one and one- 
half cups chopped raisins, three-fourths cup buttermilk, one 
cup molasses, two eggs, one teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon 
nutmeg, cloves and cinnamon, ginger to taste, flour enough to 
roll. Bake in quick oven. Mrs. Bowen. 

LEMON COOKIES 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, the juice and grated peel 
of one lemon, three eggs whipped very light, four cups sifted 
flour. Beat thoroughly adding lastly one-half teaspoon of 
soda dissolved in one tablespoon of milk. Roll thin and bake 
a light brown. Mrs. A. N. Decker. 



44 
SPICE CAKE 

One egg, three-fourths cup molasses, two-thirds cup sugar, 
two-thirds cup melted butter, one cup milk, two and one-half 
cups flour, one scant teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream 
tartar, one tablespoon mixed spice, one cup raisins. Bake 
in gem pans. White frosting. . Mary E. Chandler. 

HARD FRIED CAKES 

One cup sugar, four eggs, piece of butter half the size of 
an egg, nutmeg, mix very hard, pinch of soda. 

Mrs Ella A. Jackson. 

JUMBLES 

Two eggs, two cups sugar, one and one-half cups butter, 
one-half cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, flour enough to 
roll out well. , Alice Ayling. 

DOUGHNUTS 

One cup sugar, one tablespoon butter, one cup sweet milk, 
three eggs, one teaspoon salt, two teaspoons baking powder 
and sufficient flour to make as soft a dough as you can roll. 

E B T 
DOUGHNUTS 

One coffee cup sugar, butter size of egg, pinch of salt, nut- 
meg, three eggs beaten separately, one pint milk, three tea- 
spoons baking powder, flour, roll soft, fry in hot lard. 

Mrs. Isaac N. Neeld. 

VANILLA JUMBLES 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, two eggs, one teaspoon 
soda dissolved in two tablespoons of sweet milk, two teaspoons 
cream tartar, two teaspoons vanilla; mix soft and roll. 

Mrs. Mason. " 
COOKIES 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup sour milk, 
three-fourths cup butter, one egg, one-half teaspoon soda, flour 
sufficient to roll. Mrs. C. F. Gardner., 



45 
CREAM LAYER CAKE 

One cup sugar, three eggs, one-half cup boiling water, one 
and one-half cups flour, one heaping teaspoon baking powder; 
beat the yolks, add sugar and beat again well, then add boiling 
water; next the well beaten whites; lastly, the flour, stirring 
lightly. Put in oven as quickly as possible. 

Custard Filling: Two cups milk boiled, two tablespoons 
cornstarch dissolved in one-half cup cold milk, yolks of two 
eggs, one cup sugar, vanilla flavoring. Mix well beaten yolks, 
sugar and cornstarch; add to that milk, stirring briskly until 
it begins to thicken. Spread between layers while boiling hot. 
Frost the top with the remaining whites. 

Mrs. C. B. Rockwell. 

FLANNEL CAKES 

One-half tablespoon butter, one tablespoon sugar, one- 
half teaspoon salt, yolks of three eggs. Beat these together, 
then add one and one-half cups milk, one-half cup water, three 
cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder. Mix the baking 
powder with one cup of the flour and add last. Just before 
baking add the beaten whites of three eggs. 

Alma B. Simpson. 

GREEN MOUNTAIN CAKE 

Two cups sugar, one- half cup butter, one cup sweet milk, 
two eggs, two teaspoons cream tartar, one teaspoon soda, three 
cups flour. Stir in the eggs last. Mrs. J. L. Jackson. 

ECONOMY CAKE 

One cup sugar, one tablespoon butter, one-half cup sweet 
milk, whites of two eggs, one cup flour, one teaspoon baking 
powder, flavor to taste. Mrs. E. J. Clark. 

DELICATE CAKE 

One-half cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, whites 
of three eggs, one cup sweet milk, three cups flour, two spoons 
baking powder, one spoon flavoring. Mrs. N. I. Getz. 



46 
APPLE CAKE 

One egg, one cup sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, one heap- 
ing teaspoon baking powder, one tablespoon butter, one and 
one-half cups flour, one-half teaspoon vanilla. Bake in two sheets. 

Filling: White one egg beaten stiff, to which add one 
cup pulverized sugar and beat a few moments. Grate two 
apples and add to this and beat till stiff as whipped cream, 
then add one-half teaspoon lemon. To be eaten while fresh. 

Mrs. a. H. McGrew. 

NUT CAKE 

One cup butter, two cups granulated sugar, one and one- 
half cups sweet milk, four cups sifted flour, one teaspoon bak- 
ing powder, whites of nine eggs beaten stiff, yolks of two eggs, 
^-anilla flavoring, one pint English walnuts and pecans cut fine 
and rolled in flour. Beat thoroughly before adding nuts and 
baking powder. Mrs. D. H. Lingle. 

PLAIN FRUIT CAKE 

One cup butter, one cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, 
one cup sweet milk, three and one-half cups flour, four eggs, 
two teaspoons baking powder, one pound raisins, one pound 
currants, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon cloves, one 
nutmeg. Bake two hours slowly. Makes two loaves. 

Mrs. G. S, Goodspeed. 

WHITE CAKE 

Scant one-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one-half cup 
milk, one and one-half cups flour, one teaspoon baking powder, 
whites of three eggs, flavor to taste. Mks. W. F. Farmre. 

SOUTH BERWICK CAKE 

Two-thirds cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup molasses, 
five cups flour, one and one-half cups water, two eggs, one tea- 
spoon salt, one teaspoon soda, one pint chopped raisins, nut- 
meg and cloves to taste. Makes two loves. 

Mrs. H. M. Stevens. 



47 
MEASURE POUND CAKE 

Two-thirds cup butter, one cup sugar, one and one-half 
cups flour, one small teaspoon baking powder, four eggs, one 
tablespoon milk, one-fourth teaspoon nutmeg. Cream butter 
and sugar, add yolks and beat very light, add a little flour. When 
well mixed add the milk and more flour alternately with the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth. Mix baking powder with flour. 
Bake in moderate oven thirty-five or forty minutes. 

Mrs. C. H. Burton. 

pou'nd cake 

One and one-half cups of pulverized sugar, one and one- 
half cups flour, one cup of butter, one cup of eggs. Rub sugar 
and eggs together, mixing eggs a little before adding sugar; 
rub butter and flour to a cream, then mix two creams together 
and beat thoroughly, adding salt and flavoring. Sift in through 
a fine sieve one-fourth teaspoon baking powder and put into 
tins as soon as possible. Miss Thompson. 

SILVER CAKE 

Whites four eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one 
and one-half cups flour, one-half cup milk, one and one-fourth 
teaspoons baking powder thoroughly sifted with the flour. 
Cream butter and sugar, whites beaten to a stiff froth added 
slowly. ^ Mrs. S. E. Mills. 

GOLD CAKE 

Yolks four eggs, one-third cup butter, one cup sugar, one 
heaping cup flour, one-fourth cup milk, one teaspoon baking 
powder, vanilla flavoring and frost. Bake slowly. 

Mrs. S. E. Mills. 

COLD WATER CAKE 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup water, one- 
half cup chopped raisins, one egg, two even teaspoons baking 
powder, two cups flour. Always cream the butter and sugar. 

Mrs. H. M. Stevens. 



48 
CHOCOLATE CAKE 

Two cups granulated sugar, one cup butter, two full cups 
flour, one cup sweet milk, one cup grated chocolate (Baker's), 
four eggs, one-half teaspoon soda, two teaspoons baking 
powder, one teaspoon vanilla. Dissolve the soda in the milk 
and sift the baking powder with the flour, cream butter and 
sugar, add well beaten yolks and milk. Next one cup of flour, 
then the chocolate, then the other cup of flour, and lastly the 
beaten whites. Bake in three layers. 

Filling for the Chocolate Cake: One and one-half cups 
sugar and a full half cup milk; boil the sugar and milk five 
minutes or until it begins to string. Beat this, stirring con- 
stantly until it becomes a cream, melt one cup Baker's choco- 
late, spread two layers with the melted chocolate and a thicker 
one of the creamed sugar and milk in between. A chocolate 
icing on top. Mrs. Clarence F. Castle. 

SPONGE CAKE WITHOUT BAKING POWDER 

Separate whites and yolks of four eggs, beat whites until 
they will remain in dish if turned upside down; beat into them- 
with egg beater one-half cup granulated sugar, beating five 
minutes. Add to yolks the juice and grated rind of one 
orange. Add the two mixtures, beating well. Fold in lightly 
with a spoon — not beating — one cup flour sifted three times. 
Bake twenty-five minutes in moderate oven. Just before put- 
ting in stove sift over top one tablespoon granulated sugar. 

Mrs. Shepardson. 

ANGEL FOOD 

One and one-half cups sugar sifted six times, one cup flour 
measured after one sifting, add one even teaspoon cream of 
tartar to flour and sift five times. Beat the whites eleven eggs 
very stiff ; add sugar gradually, beating all the time. Add 
flour carefully. One teaspoon vanilla. Bake in ungreased 
pan forty-five minutes to one hour. Invert the pan and do 
not remove from pan till cool. Mrs. O. S. Bass. 



49 
CHOCOLATE CAKE 

Two even cups powdered sugar, three-fourths cup butter 
creamed with sugar, whites five eggs very stiff, one- cup milk, 
three cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, vanilla. Bake 
in jelly-cake tins in hot oven. 

Frosting: Two cups sugar, three-fourths cup water, whites 
two eggs, one-fourth cake Baker's chocolate, vanilla. Boil 
sugar and water until it threads, then pour over the well-beaten 
whites, add melted chocolate and vanilla. Beat well and spread 
between layers. Mabel Burton. 

DEVILS' FOOD 

One-half cake Baker's chocolate, one cup milk, cook until 
thick. Yolk of one egg, one cup sugar, stir together and mix 
with chocolate. One cup sugar, two eggs, one tablespoon but- 
ter, one cup milk; mix with chocolate before putting in the 
flour, two cups flour,- three heaping teaspoons baking powder- 
Bake in layers. Ivah Emmons. 

CHOCOLATE LOAF CAKE 

Two and one-half cups sugar, one cup butter, five eggs, 
one cup milk, three cups flour, three spoons baking powder, 
three spoons vanilla, one-half cake chocolate melted and added 
last of all. 

Icing: White of one egg, water to fill shell; add powdered 
sugar until stiff. Mrs. H. G. Walker. 

WHITE CAKE 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, three 
cups flour, almond or lemon extract, whites of five eggs, two 
teaspoons baking powder. Easily made and very good, 

Emily Stansburry. 

WHITE CAKE 

Whites Seven eggs, two cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter^ 
one cup milk, three cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder.. 

Mrs. C. Chandler. 



50 
BERWICK SPONGE CAKE 

Beat six eggs, 3^olks and whites together, two minutes; add 
three cups sugar and beat five minutes; mix three teaspoons 
baking powder thoroughly with four cups flour, addhalf of it 
and beat two minutes; add one cup cold water, the grated rind 
and one-half the juice of One lemon, a little salt and beat one 
minute; add the remainder of the flour and beat another min- 
ute. Bake in two deep cup cake pans. 

Mrs. N. W.Carey. 

DEVIL'S FOOD 

Grate one-half cake of Baker's chocolate, mix it well with 
one-half cup sweet milk, one cup sugar, 3^olk one egg. Boil 
until the sugar and chocolate are well dissolved and let it cool. 
For the cake take one cup granulated sugar, one-quarter cup 
butter, one-half cup sweet milk, two eggs, two and one-quarter 
cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one teaspoon vanilla. 
Add to this the boiled chocolate cooled. Mix thoroughly and 
bake in three la^^ers, with thin white frosting between layers. 

Davida Harper. 

NUT CAKE 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, three cups flour, one cup 
cold water, four eggs, one pound English walnuts, three tea- 
spoons baking powder. Roll nuts fine, using less than one pound 
if plainer cake is desired. Save some perfect halves to put on the 
top after frosting. Make, two loaves, but may be divided evenly 
for one loaf. Mrs. H. M. Stevens. 

FILLING FOR LAYER CAKE 

One cup sour cream, one cup walnuts and one-half cup 
raisins chopped fine, one-half cup sugar, white of one egg. 
Beat the cream until thick, add the white beaten to a stiff 
froth, lastly the raisins and walnuts. Mix well and spread. 

Mrs. C. H. Rice. 



51 
CHOCOLATE CARAMEL CAKE 

Caramel: One cup grated chocolate, one cup sugar, one- 
half cup sweet milk, yolk of one egg. Boil until it thickens 
in a double boiler. Allow to cool. 

Cake: One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup sweet 
milk, three cups flour, three eggs, two teaspoons baking pow- 
der, one teaspoon vanilla. Add chocolate caramel before 
flour. Bake in layers. 

Lemon Icing: Two cups pulverized sugar, two tablespoons 
milk, two tablespoons melted butter, juice of one lemon; stir 
until smooth. Allow cake to cool before using. 

Mrs. E. J. Clark. 

MINNEHAHA CAKE 

The whites of three eggs, two cups sugar, one cup sweet 
milk, two large tablespoons butter, three cups flour, two heap- 
ing teaspoons baking powder. 

Filling: Teacup sugar, little water, and boil together un- 
til brittle in cold water, remove from stove, stir into the well- 
beaten white of one egg. Add to this one cup chopped rai- 
sins and one cup English walnuts or hickory nuts. 

Mrs. J. B. Jackson. 

BOILED FROSTING No. 1 

One and one-half cups granulated sugar, one-half cup 
sweet milk ; boil five or six minutes without stirring. Beat 
until cool enough to spread. Mrs. W. F. Farmkr. 

BOILED FROSTING No. 2 

To one small teacup of granulated sugar add enough water 
to dissolve. Boil without stirring until it just begins to be 
stringy. Have ready white of one egg beaten very stiff ; add 
slowly the syrup, beating constantly until the frosting is nearly 
cold, then spread. C. F, 



52 
ONE EGG LAYER CAKE 

One cup sugar and one tablespoon butter, creamed, one 
egg beaten well, one cup milk; flavor to taste. Two cups flour, 
two teaspoons baking powder. Mix quickly but thoroughly. 
An inexpensive but very good foundation for all layer cakes. 

C. F. 



PIE 



" Moderation is the silken string running through the 
pearl chain of all virtues." — Hall. 



PUMPKIN PIE 

One cup pumpkin, one cup sugar, one and one-half cups 
milk, one egg, one heaping teaspoon cornstarch, one level tea- 
spoon ginger, one level teaspoon cinnamon, pinch of salt. 

Mrs. Bowen. 

BAKEWELL PIES 

Two-thirds cup sugar, two-thirds cup butter, yolks six eggs, 
whites three eggs. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add 
the yolks which should be beaten till very light, lastly add 
whites of eggs and teaspoon lemon. Line mujffin tins with 
puff paste, spread currant jelly over the bottom and fill with the 
above mixture until pans are two-thirds full. An old English 
recipe. Mrs. A. H. McGrew. 

PIE CRUST WITHOUT LARD 

One heaping cup flour, one-quarter cup butter, rubbed 
together. Add a little salt and one teaspoon baking powder. 
Wet with water or milk enough to roll. This makes one pie. 

Mrs. a. G. Lester. 

RHUBARB PIE 

Strip off the outside skin from the stalks of rhubarb, cut 
in pieces one-half inch long ; line the pie dish with paste, and 
fill with rhubarb. ' Sweeten with one large cup of sugar ; sprin- 
kle a saltspoon of salt, a little grated nutmeg, and a shake of 
flour over the top. Cover with a rich pie crust. 

Mrs. Decker. 



54 
MINCE MEAT 

Two pounds leanfresh meat boiled, and when cool chop it 
fine. The meat from the upper part of the round is good for 
this purpose. One pound of beef suet cleared of strings and 
chopped fine, five pounds apples pared and chopped fine, two 
pounds raisins seeded and chopped, one pound Sultana raisins 
picked over, two pounds currants (or another pound of rai- 
sins), three-fourths pound of citron cut fine, two tablespoons 
cinnamon, one tablespoon ground nutmeg, two tablespoons 
mace, one tablespoon cloves, one tablespoon allspice, one 
tablespoon salt, two and one-half pounds brown sugar. Mois- 
ten with boiled cider or lemon juice. A jar of sweet pickled 
peaches and liquid will give the mince meat a fine flavor. Of 
course the peaches should be chopped fine. 

Mrs. Ernest D. Burton. 

CHOCOLATE PIE 

One cup sugar, one cup milk, two tablespoons grated 
chocolate, two and one-half heaping tablespoons flour (or two 
tablespoons cornstarch), yolks of two eggs. Cook until thick- 
ened; flavor to taste. Put this mixture into a crust that has 
been baked. Beat the whites stiff, add two tablespoons sugar, 
and put on top of pie. Set in the oven and brown. 

Mrs. a. H. Cole. 

APPLE PIE 

Two tablespoons of lard, large pinch of salt, pinch of bak- 
ing powder, large cup flour. Rub lard lightly into the flour, 
add three tablespoons of ice water, divide into two parts and 
roll rather thin. Pare four large apples and slice. Strew over 
bottom crust a large handful of raisins, put in apples and 
sprinkle over one-half cup sugar, grate nutmeg over and dot 
with butter, cover with top crust and bake one-half hour. 

Mrs. Rothman. 



55 
ORANGE PIE 

Mix one cup of sugar and two tablespoons flour-with the 
juice of one orange and its grated rind, add one whole egg and 
the yolks of two more, stir well and then add milk enough to 
fill pie tin. Beat whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, add a lit- 
tle sugar and put on top of pie. Mrs. Le Roy Hill. 

RIPE CURRANT PIE 

Juice from one box of currants, one cup sugar, one-half 
cup cold water, two small tablespoons flour. Bake without an 
upper crust. Beat whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, add one- 
half cup of sugar and put on top of pie Mrs. Bingham. 

LEMON TURNOVERS 

Three soft crackers rolled fine, two lemons peeled and 
chopped, two eggs, two cups chopped raisins, two cups sugar, 
pinch of salt. Roll crust quite thin, cut in rounds and fill with 
mixture. Bake one-half hour. Mrs. Janette Parker. 

SQUASH .PIE 

To two cups of squash after it is stewed and sifted, add 
one-half teaspoon ginger, a little cinnamon, nutmeg and salt, 
one cup sugar and a little more than a pint of boiling milk. 
Add two eggs well beaten to the above mixture after it has 
slightly cooled. Mrs. A. G. Lester. 

SCOTCH PIE 

Make batter as for drop biscuit, only richer and thinner. 
Fill a square pan one-third full of sliced apples. Pour over 
these the batter. Bake until done, turn out on hot dish. Dress 
with butter, sugar and vinegar. Serve hot. 

Mrs. N. I. Getz. 



56 
LEMON PIE 

Juice and grated rind of one large lemon, two cups sugar, 
two tablespoons cornstarch mixed with a little cold water, 
butter size walnut, yolks four eggs, two cups boiling water. 
Cook in double boiler until thickened. Put this mixture into 
two pie crusts that have been baked. Beat the white of eggs 
to a stiff froth, add one tablespoon of sugar, put on top of 
pies and set in oven to brown. Mrs. J. Fulton. 



PUDDIIVGS 



"A smell like an eating house and a pastry cook's. next 
door to each other, with a laundress next door to that ! That 
was the pudding." — Dickens' Christmas Carol. 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Sponge Cake: Six eggs, three cups sugar, four cups flour, 
•one cup cold water, two teaspoons baking powder, juice and 
grated rind one lemon, one-quarter teaspoon salt. 

Filling: One pint cream or milk, one-quarter cup sugar, 
yolks four eggs, one-half saltspoon salt. Prepare custard and 
while hot dissolve with it the soaked gelatine. One ounce 
gelatine soaked in one-half cup cold water. Stir until gelatine 
has dissolved. When beginning to set, mix in lightly one pint 
whipped cream or whites three eggs beaten stiff. Add to 
custard mixture berore the gelatine one of the following 
flavorings: One-half vanilla bean, one teaspoon vanilla extract, 
two ounces chocolate dissolved in milk, five tablespoons pis- 
tachio nuts, three tablespoons Maraschino or three table- 
spoons sherry, or both. Miss Harmer. 

BAKED BANANAS 

Peel six bananas and la}^ them in an earthen baking dish. 
Prepare in a bowl three tablespoons melted butter, six table- 
spoons sugar, three tablespoons lemon juice. Baste the bananas 
with this mixture and bake half an hour. Mrs. Silver. 

ANGEL CREAM 

One cup sugar, one-fourth cup water, one pint cream, one 
tablespoon gelatine; soak in a little cold milk. Dissolve in hot 
milk three tablespoons sherry, one orange. Beat gelatine as 
for charlotte. Fold cream. Miss Harmer. 



58 
FRUIT CHARLOTTE 

One quart cream, one-half package of gelatine, one cup 
milk, one tablespoon vanilla, one-half cup powdered sugar, one- 
third cup preserved ginger, one-third cup preserved pineapple, 
one-third cup candied cherries. Soak gelatine for two hours 
in half the milk. Whip the cream until stiff. Sprinkle the 
sugar and vanilla over it, fold it in. Then dissolve the gela- 
tine in the rest of the milk, which should be heated, stirring 
until dissolved. Strain over the top of the cream, and stir 
from the bottom until the mixture will hardly flow. It is then 
ready for the moulds. The fruit can be added just before put- 
ting in the moulds if desired ; but it is good without the addi- 
tion of fruit. Mrs. Ernest D. Burton, 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

Place in pudding dish two-thirds can grated pineapple and 
one-half cup sugar. Make a boiled custard, using one pint 
milk, one tablespoon cornstarch, yolks of three eggs. When 
cooked pour it over pineapple. Beat the whites of the eggs to 
a stiff froth and add three tablespoons sugar. Spread over top 
of custard and place in hot oven for from three to five minutes, 
just long enough to tip the meringue with a golden brown. 
Serve cold, Mrs. Thomas McCall. 

BLUEBERRY SHORTCAKE 
One and one-half pints sifted flour, one cup sweet milk, 
two eggs, one cup sugar, two-thirds cup butter, two heaping 
teaspoons baking powder, one cup blueberries well covered 
with flour and stirred in last. Bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. Hutchinson. 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING 
One loaf baker's bread, butter it, cut off crust, slice it, 
place in pudding dish. One quart huckleberries, one cup 
sugar, scald and pour over bread. Allow to stand some time. 
When very cold turn out and serve with cream, 

Mrs. K, R. Spencer. 



59 
WHOLE WHEAT PUDDING 

Use the Franklin Mills fine flour of the entire wheat for 
this pudding. Two cups entire wheat flour, one-half teaspoon 
soda, one-half teaspoo*n salt, one cup sweet milk, one-half cup 
molasses, one cup stoned and chopped raisins. Steam three 
hours. Serve with cream or any plain liquid pudding sauce. 
Dates, figs, prunes, stewed or chopped apple may be substi- 
tuted for the raisins. Mrs. W. C. Wilkinson. 

WHITE CUSTARDS 

One pint milk, heated, not boiled; sweeten and flavor to 
taste. Stir into the milk the whites of four eggs unbeaten;; 
pour the custards into cups set in a pan of hot water; cover 
them with thick paper and place them in a moderate oven ta 
become firm. Do not beat the eggs and do not allow the 
custards to become brown. E. D. E. 

GERMAN PUDDING 

Beat three eggs separately until very light, one cup milk 
added to yolks, three tablespoons flour, one-half tablespoon 
melted butter, a little nutmeg and salt; stir in whites last. Bake 
in moderate oven twenty minutes or half an hour. Serve at 
once with hard sauce. F. I. C. 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING 

One quart ripe huckleberries, three eggs beaten separately,, 
two cups sugar, four large teaspoons butter, one pint flour, one 
cup sweet milk, one-half teaspoon baking pov/der. Roll the 
berries in the flour and add them last. Bake one-half hour and 
eat warm with sauce. Mrs. L. C. Haynes. 

CUP PUDDING 

One quart milk, six eggs beaten separately, six tablespoons 
flour, a little salt, two tablespoons sugar. Mix flour, yolks, 
sugar, salt and milk, add white of eggs. Bake in buttered cups 
and serve with sugar, butter and a little nutmeg. 

Mrs. J. E. Raycroft. 



60 
CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

Yolks three eggs, one cup sugar, three tablespoons sweet 
milk, one ounce chocolate melted, one cup flour, two teaspoons 
baking powder. To the beaten yolks, add sugar and beat till 
light. Add milk and chocolate, mix well, add the flour; beat 
until smooth and light. Beat whites of eggs till very light and 
mix with baking powder, then add quickly to the other mix- 
ture. Put a large spoonful into greased cups and steam thirt>r 
minutes. 

Sauce: One cup powdered sugar, one-half cup butter, 
beat to a cream and add one-half teaspoon vanilla and one- 
half cup milk. Stir constantly over hot water, cooking until 
smooth and creamy. Vashti Chandler. 

PUDDING SAUCE 

One cup milk, one-third cup butter, two-thirds cup sugar, 
one egg, two tablespoons wine, one teaspoon cornstarch. Let 
the milk come to a boil, then stir in the cornstarch (dissolved), 
then add sugar, butter and egg which have been beaten to- 
gether, take from stove and add the wine. Especially nice for 
suet pudding. F. B. L. 

STEAMED SUET AND FRUIT PUDDING 

One cup molasses, one cup chopped suet, one cup milk, 
two and one-half cups flour, one cup chopped raisins, one cup 
currants, one teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon salt, one tea- 
spoon cinnamon, one-fourth teaspoon cloves, one-fourth tea- 
spoon nutmeg. Steam three hours. 

Mrs. Thomas McCall. 

VITOS PUDDING 

Cook one cup of vitos fifteen minutes as for mush, then 
add one and one-half cups strawberry or raspberry preserves 
and cook fifteen minutes more. When done season with juice 
of half an orange and half a lemon; sweeten to taste, put in a - 
mould and serve cold with whipped cream. 

Alma B. Simpson. 



61 
ENGLISH BOILED PUDDING 

One quart flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one teacup 
sugar, one teacup syrup, one cup raisins, one cup currants, twa 
eggs, one teaspoon salt, two teaspoons finely chopped suet, 
two small pieces lemon peel, one-third teaspoon cloves, cinna- 
mon and allspice. Dip pudding cloth in hot water, wring out, 
place over pan, dredge with flour. Put pudding in, tie tightly; 
place in boiling water and boil two and one-half hours. 

Mrs. Kleuf'er. 

ORANGE PUDDING 

Peel and slice three or four oranges, lay in pudding dish 
with one-third cup sugar. Make custard of one pint milk, 
yolks three eggs, one rounded tablespoon cornstarch, one- 
third cup sugar. When cold pour over the oranges. Beat whites 
of three eggs to a stiff froth, add one-third cup pulverized 
sugar and pour over pudding. Brown slightly and serve when 
cold. Mrs. J. Archy Smith. 

CAKE PUDDING . 

Partly fill a pudding dish with cake too dry for the table, 
cover with cream made of two tablespoons cornstarch, yolks 
of two eggs, one-half cup sugar, and one pint of scalding milk. 
Pour over cake while hot. When cold frost with icing made 
as follows : One cup granulated sugar, three and, one-half 
tablespoons hot water. Set on stove and let boil about five 
minutes. Pour over the white of one egg, partially beaten, 
and beat until cool. Mrs. J. Archy Smith. 

CHERRY PUDDING 
One box cherries stewed, remove juice and add enough 
water to make one and ohe-half pints. In this dissolve one-third 
box gelatine, one cup sugar, let it cool until you can stir with a 
spoon, then add the cherries and mould. With canned cherries 
little or no sugar is needed. The juice of one lemon may be 
added. To be served with whipped or plain cream. 

F. B. L. 



62 
ENGLISH CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING 

Three-fourths pound suet, one pound raisins, one pound 
currants, one pound chopped apples, one-half nutmeg, one cup 
brown sugar, one-fourth minced candied peel, one teaspoon 
ground ginger, one teaspoon mixed spices, two ounces bread 
crumbs, seven ounces flour, one-fourth cup molasses, one 
quart milk, four eggs. Put into mixing bowl in order named, 
mix very thoroughly, adding eggs and milk last. The mixture 
should "drop from the spoon, not run. This is sufficient for two 
puddings. Fill buttered bowl giving space to rise, cover first 
with white paper, then with a strong cotton cloth, tie firmly 
and boil six hours. These puddings will keep a year; when re- 
heated steam one and one-half hours. Mrs. Smith. 

FLOATING ISLAND ON FRUIT 

One pint milk, two teaspoons cornstarch, two eggs, one- 
half cup sugar, one-half teaspoon vanilla, one orange, one 
banana, one lemon. Put milk on in double boiler, wet corn- 
starch with a little cold milk, when milk is hot stir in. Beat 
yolks, add sugar and stir in cooked cornstarch. Let cook until 
creamy, then add vanilla. Beat whites stiff and cut off small 
portions, putting in the custard while hot, dipping the hot 
custard over the whites to cook it. Cut up the bananas and 
squeeze the lemon over it, then pare the orange and cut in 
small pieces, mingle orange, bananas and two tablespoons 
pulverized sugar. Let stand until very cold. Put some of the 
fruit in each serving dish, then dip an island and some custard 
over each dish of fruit. Mrs. G. C. Baldwin. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 

One cup chopped suet, one cup currants, little citron, one 
cup raisins stoned and chopped, one cup molasses, one cup 
bread crumbs, one and one-half cups flour. Mix suet, bread 
crums and flour well together ; one teaspoon cinnamon, one 
teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon soda in molasses; all well mixed. 
Steam three hours. Serve with hard sauce. S. E. M. 



63 
MERINGUE RICE PUDDING 

Three-quarters cup rice, four eggs, one-third cup butter, 
one cup seeded raisins, one cup sugar, one pint milk, pinch 
salt. Wash and rinse rice, cover with milk and cook until soft 
in double boiler. Pour in granite pudding dish, add one pint 
milk, sugar, ^^olks of eggs well beaten, salt, vanilla and nut- 
meg to fast-. Add raisins, mix butter and rice before adding 
other ingredients. Bake slowly thirt}^ minutes. Beat whites 
to a stiff froth with three tablespoons powdered sugar. Spread 
over top and brown in oven. Good hot or cold. 

Mrs. Rothman. 
NUT PUDDING 

Soak one-half box gelatine, add two cups boiling water, 
the juice of half a lemon, one-half cup sugar. Set one side to 
cool. Chop the meats of a pound of English walnuts and a 
pound of dates. Beat to a stiff froth the whites of a dozen 
eggs. When the gelatine mixture cools, add the nuts, fruit 
and the wfiites of the eggs, beating the mixture all the time to 
keep it smooth. For sauce, take yolks of four eggs, one cup 
sugar, one pint milk. Make a soft custard of this and use as a 
sauce. Mrs. Owen. • 

ORANGE CREAM 

Soak two tablespoons white gelatine in one pint warm 
water; when dissolved, heat and strain, and add juice of three 
oranges and grated rind of one, the juice of one lemon; add 
yolks of four eggs well beaten and one cup sugar. Stir over a 
gentle fire until it just boils, then pour into a quart mould. If 
desired garnish the platter with beaten whites of two eggs. 

Mrs. Moncrief. 
COFFEE JLELY 

One-half box gelatine, one-half cup cold water, one 
pint strong coffee sweetened to taste. Soak gelatine half an 
hour in cold water. Add the hot coffee, stir well, strain into 
a mould and set on ice or in a very cold place. Serve with 
whipped cream, Mrs. McLean. 



64 
CHOCOLATE WHIPS 

One quart milk, one (ounce square) Baker's chocolate,, 
one-half cup sugar, six eggs, a speck salt, scrape chocolate fine 
and put it in a small frying pan with two tablespoons sugar 
and one of boiling water. When dissolved add it to a 
pint and a half of the milk which should be hot in the double 
iDoiler. Beat eggs and remainder of sugar together, add the 
cold water and stir into boiling milk. Stir constantly until it 
begins to thicken; add salt and set away to cool. Season one 
pint cream with two tablespoons sugar and one-half teaspoons 
vanilla. Whip to a stiff froth. Half fill glasses with the cold 
custard and drop whipped cream upon it. 

Mrs. E. M. Burns. 

HOT GINGERBREAD PUDDING 

One cup New Orleans molasses, one-half cup butter, one- 
half cup sweet milk, one egg, two and one-fourth cups flour, 
one teaspoon soda in two tablespoons boiling water, one tea- 
spoon ginger, one teaspoon cinnamon, a little salt. Bake in 
two cake tins. To be eaten warm with a sauce of sweet cream 
whipped stiff, sweetened and flavored. Mrs. G. C. Baldwin. 

RICE BAKED WITH DATES 

Two even tablespoons rice, one quart milk, one cup dates- 
stoned, one saltspoon salt. Bake very slowly with just enough 
heat to keep mixture bubbling gently. Stir once or twice and 
then allow to brown. Bake one and a-half hours or until rice 
is thoroughly soft. Serve very cold. Miss Sherwin, 

Boston School of Housekeeping. 

SNOW PUDDING 

One quart sweet milk, one-half box gelatine, dissolve 
slowly; yolks of three eggs beaten well with four tablespoons 
suo-ar, turn little milk and stir well. Put on stove and beat. 
Beat whites to a stiff froth, one- half teaspoon vanilla. Pour 
in mould. Serve cold with cream, sugar and jelly. S. E. M. 



65 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

One quart milk, two squares chocolate, one-half cup sugar, 
four tablespoons cornstarch, one teaspoon vanilla. Heat milk 
in rice boiler. Grate chocolate and add with sugar to the 
heated milk. Mix cornstarch in cold milk and stir into milk 
and chocolate, stir until thick and even color. Add vanilla 
last, pour into a mould set in cold water. Eat with sugar and 
cream. Mrs. James Peabody. 

PLUM PUDDING 

One-half pound citron, one pound raisins, one pound cur- 
rants, three-fourths pound suet, one ounce cinnamon, four eggs, 
one cup molasses, one cup very brown sugar, one tablespoon 
essence lemon, one-half cup sweet milk, three cups flour. Chop 
suet, add fruit and flour well. Beat eggs, add sugar, milk and 
molasses together with the other ingredients. Stir fruit into 
this mixture just enough to mix well. Steam or boil in baking 
powder cans four to six hours according to size of can. 

Mrs. C. Chandler. 



FROZEN DAINTIES 



"Trifles light as air." — 



CHOCOLATE GLACE 

One and one-halt cups granulated sugar, one-half cup 
chocolate mixed; add one-half cup cream and cook until it 
bubbles in the centre. Add a piece of butter the size of a hick-. 
ory nut, take from the fire and beat until the mixture thickens 
Keep warm enough to pour slowly, over plain ice-cream. 

Contributed. 

TORTQNI 

One pint thick cream, one-fourth pound rolled or grated 
macaroons, two tablespoons powdered sugar, one-fourth tea- 
spoon almond flavoring. Put into freezer and pack in ice and 
salt for three hours. Mrs. Ernest D. Burton. 

LEMON ICE 

Let the juice of six lemons and two cups granulated sugar 
stand together for two hours. Add one quart of milk and 
freeze, Mrs. J. E. Raycroft. ■ 

ANGEL PARFAIT 

Whip the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth. Put one- 
half cup sugar and one-half cup water into a saucepan on the 
fire. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, then let it cook slowly, 
without touching, until a little dropped into cold water will 
form a ball when rolled between the fingers. Pour three table- 
spoons of the boiling hot syrup slowly on to the whipped 
whites, beating constantly. Add one teaspoon vanilla or of 
sherry, or any other flavoring. When the Italian meringue is 
cold add pint of cream whipped to a stiff froth. Do not let 
any liquid that has drained from the cream go into the mixture 
Mold and pack in ice and salt for four hours. 

Mrs. S. Mathews. 



68 
QUINCE ICE CREAM 

Three cups cream, one cup preserved quince chopped fine, 
juice of one lemon, three-fourths cup sugar. Pack and freeze. 

Miss Sherwin, 

Boston School of Housekeeping 

PRUNE ICE CREAM 

One pond prunes, washed and soaked over night. Cook 
until soft in water, remove seeds and put the balance through a 
colander. Add one cup sugar, whites of two eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth and one quart cream. Freeze. 

Mrs. I. N. Neeld. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM 

Steep one-third cup coarsely ground coffee in one pint 
cream or milk for ten minutes. Remove from the fire, let it 
settle and pour off carefully. Strain through cheese cloth and 
add it to the remainder of the cream or custard. This will 
flavor one quart of ice cream. E. M. C. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM 

Beat the yolks of six eggs until creamy, add one-half 
pound of sugar, beat until light, and add the stiffly whipped 
whites of six eggs. Stir this mixture into one quart of rich 
cream which is boiling hot, cook, stirring constantly, until it 
begins to thicken. Take from the fire, strain, and let stand 
until cold. Add one tablespoonful vanilla and three table- 
spoons caramel (made by browning one-half cup granulated 
sugar). Pack and freeze. Contributed. 

NEW YORK ICE CREAM 

Cook one quart cream, four eggs and one-half pint sugar 
about fifteen minutes, in a double boiler. When cold, strain, 
add one teaspoon vanilla and freeze. 

Mrs. N. I. Getz. 



SPONGE ICE 

Make a boiling syrup of one pound of sugar and one and 
one-half pints water. Pour into the yolks of twelve eggs, 
beaten very light. Dissolve a scant one-half box of Cox's 
gelatine and pour into the boiling syrup, then add one-fourth 
pint of brandy. Put into the freezer and when partially frozen 
add the beaten whites of twelve eggs. 

Mrs. Chas. Allen Marsh. 

CREAM BALM 

One pint extra cream whipped stiff. Sweeten and flavor 
to taste. Put into quart mold, cover with ice sprinkled with 
salt until ready for use. Mrs. Jennings. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET 

One and one-half pint can of pineapple, or, if fresh fruit is 
used, one large pineapple chopped fine. Add one scant pint of 
sugar, two tablespoons gelatine, soaked in cold water to cover, 
for one or two hours. Have one pint of water hot and dis- 
solve the gelatine in it, stir this, with one pint of cold water, 
into the mixture and freeze. This sherbet will be white and 
creamy. Mrs. Gardner. 

LEMON SHERBET 

Pour about three quarts of water over the juice and grate. i 
rind of six lemons, one can grated pineapple, three pints sugar, 
and let stand to season. Strain, add a little of the pineapple, 
the white of one egg and freeze. 

Mrs. J. G. Pratt. 

PINEAPPLE FRAPPE 

Strain the juice of four large lemons into two quarts of 
water, add one can grated pineapple and two pounds sugar. 
Put into freezer, and when nearly frozen add the beaten whites 
of four eggs. Mrs. J. Fulton. 



70 

GRAPE SHERBET 

Boil two cups sugar, with the grated rind of one lemon and 
two cups water, for five minutes. Pour over one-half table- 
spoon gelatine which has been soaked in one-fourth cup of 
cold water. Add one cup grape juice and the juice of two 
lemons. Strain and freeze, adding the beaten white of one egg, 
when the mixture is of the consistenc}^ of mush. 

Miss Sherwin, 

Boston School of Cooking. 



CHAFING DISH and FANCY COOKERY 



Thou seest how diligent I am to dress thy meat myself and bring it 
thee. — Shakespeare. 



By Miss Harmer, 

University Primary School. 

ORANGE SOUFFLE 

Three oranges (juice and pulp), six tablespoons sugar 
(powdered), one saltspoon salt, one-half teaspoon orange ex- 
tract, three eggs, one teaspoon butter. Beat yolks thick. Add 
three large tablespoons sugar, and flavoring. Add the salt to 
whites and beat stiff, adding gradually three large tablespoons 
sugar. Put butter in chafing dish. Have hot water pan ready. 
Add one-half the whites to yolk and put souffle in chafing dish, 
cooking same as for omelette. When a delicate brown, put over 
hot water pan. Let remain until well puffed, then spread over 
center the orange pulp ; then spread over the remainder of the 
whites. Cook until white is set. Two tablespoons sherry may 
be added at the last. 

OYSTER SOUP 

Large Quantity : One large pint oysters, one large table- 
spoon butter, two large tablespoons flour, one-fourth saltspoon 
red pepper (Hungarian), one quart milk, one grate of nutmeg, 
one saltspoon thin yellow lemon rind. 

OMELET 

Two eggs, two tablespoons milk, one saltspoon salt, one- 
fourth saltspoon pepper, one teaspoon butter. 



72 
FANCY OMELETS 

Add one of the following ingredients just before folding. 
One tablespoon chopped parsley, one teaspoon finely grated 
onion, three tablespoons grated sweet corn, three tablespoons 
chopped ham, three tablespoons chopped chicken, three table- 
spoons chopped veal, three tablespoons chopped mushrooms, 
parboil and drain. Three tablespoons grated cheese, three 
oysters, parboil and drain. Three tablespoons chestnuts, 
boil and mash. 

SWEET OMELETS 

One teaspoon powdered sugar for each egg. Omit pepper. 
Add just before folding : Three tablespoons preserves, jelly, 
or marmalade. Fold and sprinkle with sugar. 

PIGS IN BLANKETS 

Wrap each seasoned oyster in a thin slice of bacon, and 
fasten with wooden skewer. Saute in hot cutlet pan until bacon 
is crisp. Serve on toast. 

LOBSTER NEWBURG 

Meat of one lobster, steam in one tablespoon butter. 
Add three tablespoons sherry and cook five minutes. Blend 
yolks two eggs, one teaspoon cornstarch. Add slowly one cup 
cream. Pour cream mixture over lobster. Stir constantly 
until thick and creamy. Add glass of brandy and serve. 

SWEET FRITTERS OR "WONDERS." 

Three eggs, one tablespoon sugar, one saltspoon mace, 
two tablespoons rum or sherry, two tablespoons butter, two 
cups flour. Chop butter with flour, beat eggs. , Add sugar and 
flavoring, then flour. Roll out ver)^ thin. Cut in strips two 
and one-half by one-half. Let dry for two hours, then fry in 
deep fat. Powder with mixed sugar and cinnamon. Serve at 
afternoon tea. 



73 
FRITTER BATTER 

Oyster kromskies, clam fritters, apple fritters, orange frit- 
ters, two eggs, one tablespoon oil, one cup flour, one-half cup 
cold liquid. Stir seasoning into beaten yolk, add oil slowly, then 
flour. Beat well and then set aside two hours or more. When 
ready to use fold in stiff whites. 

ALMOND ROCK 

One pound finely powdered sugar, whites four eggs. 
Meringue. Add one pound blanched ground almonds. Form 
in small cones. Bake in very hot oven. 

QUEEN FRITTERS 

One cup hot water, four tablespoons butter, one large 
tablespoon sugar, yellow rind one-half lemon. Boil together 
five minutes. Skim out rind. Stir in quickly one cup flour. 
Beat until dough does not adhere to spoon or pan. Cover and 
set aside fifteen minutes to cool. Then work in five raw eggs, 
one at a time. Drop by small spoonsful into hot fat. Serve 
with liquid sauce. 

CRULLERS 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, four eggs, one-fourth tea- 
spoon nutmeg, one and one-half teaspoons baking powder, one 
cup milk, one-half teaspoon salt. Flour to form dough to roll. 
Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten eggs and flavoring, then 
flour with baking powder, alternating with the milk. Fry in 
hot fat. 

FROZEN SOUFFLE 

. Eight tablespoons sugar, six yolks. Beat slowly over hot 
water to a solid froth. Remove and cool. Mix in gently one 
pint cream (stiff whip), one dozen lady fingers cut in small 
pieces and dipped in sherry. Turn into wetted mold, bury in 
ice, and salt for two hours. Serve in mold 



74 

DATE PUFF 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one-fourth cup butter, one-fourth 
cup milk, one teaspoon baking powder. Flour for thin batter. 
One cup dates (stoned, quartered, floured). Fill mufifin cups 
one-half full. Steam twenty minutes. 

SPANISH HAM 

One tablespoon butter, one tablespoon fat from ham 
(minced), two tablespoons bread crumbs, one tablesoon parsle}^ 
one-fourth saltspoon redpepper, one-fourth or one-half cup 
sweet cider, Add butter and fat to chafing dish, when fat is 
yellow add ham which has been sprinkled with pepper. Brown 
both sides slightly, then add cider and simmer. Remove ham, 
add parsely and bread crubs to absorb moisture in pan. Beech 
nuts may be added. 

SWEETBREADS WITH ORANGE SAUCE 

Keep in iced water with one tablespoon vinegar for one 
hour, parboil twenty minutes, return to iced water. Dry thor- 
oughl}^; add to chafing dish one tablespoon butter. When 
brown add' sweetbreads and brown. Remove and prepare 
sauce: One tablespon butter, one tablespoon flour (brown), 
one large teaspoon thin orange rind, two teaspoons orange juice, 
one-half cup stock. One tablespoon orange marmalade may 
be used. 

SAUSAGE AND VEAL ROLLS 

One-half pound sausage, one-half pound A-eal (minced 
raw), one-half cup bread crumbs, one teaspoon celery salt; one 
teaspoon lemon juice, one teaspoon scraped onion, one-half 
saltspoon red pepper, one teaspoon chopped celery, one tea- 
spoon chopped pickle. Mix together and moisten with white 
of egg, make into small balls, brown in butter, coN'er one min- 
ute. Ser\'e with horseradish sauce. 



75 
SPANISH EGGS 

One cup stewed tomatoes, one teaspoon finely scraped 
onion, one tablespoon butter, one saltspoon salt, one-fourth- 
salt-spoon pepper, three eggs. Cook onion in hot butter, add 
tomatoes. When tomatoes are simmering, break in three eggs, 
lift with fork while cooking, so that the red, white and 3^ellow 
shows in the dish. Flavor with three tablespoons catsup. Two 
tablespoons chopped cold ham and one tablespoon parsley 
may be added. 

BRAINS WITH PEAS 

Prepare brains as for sweetbreads; add to chafing dish 
one and one-half cup peas with juice. When hot add the 
brains and simmer ten minutes. Prepare cream sauce in hot- 
water pan: One tablespoon flour, one tablespoon butter, one- 
half teaspoon salt, one-half saltspoon pepper, one-fourth cup 
cream. Add brains and peas to sauce and serve. 



CREAMED DATES 

One cup sugar, one-third cup water, boil to a thread about 
eight minutes. Whites two eggs, beat till stiff. One saltspoon 
cream tarter. Put a blanched almond in the centre of each 
date, removing stone. When syrup is hot put in dates, ex- 
tinguish flame, turn in the white of egg and stir rapidly until 
creamy, then add two tablespoons sherry. 

BACON AND LIVER SAUTE 

One cup bacon, crisped, add one cup calf's or lamb's liver, 
one teaspoon finely scraped onion. Cook until onion is a good 
yellow, then add one tablespoon chopped parsley, two table- 
spoons Tarragon vinegar. Serve on lettuce leaves. 



76 
FRIZZLED BEEF 

One cup smoked beef (packed solid), one cup rich milk 
or half cream, two level tablespoons butter, t^yo level table- 
spoons flour, two eggs, one round teaspoon parsley, one-fourth 
saltspoon pepper. Cover beef with one and one-half cup boil- 
ing water. While water is boiling measure butter and flour 
then drain beef. Make white sauce with one tablespoon butter, 
add another tablespoon butter to beef and frizzle until it curls; 
add unbeaten eggs to white sauce, then add beef. Add parsley 
and serve. 

PINEAPPLE PUFF 

Whites three eggs, one-half saltspoon salt added to whites 
when beating, one saltspoon cream tartar, one to three teaspoons 
lemon juice. Fold in stiff whites three tablespoons pineapple. 
Grease pan with butter and cook same as omelet. Serve with 
whipped cream, sweetened and flavored with fruit juice or wine. 
Three tablespoons syrup to one pint cream, two tablespoons 
powdered sugar to one pint cream, 

MISSISSIPPI STEAMBOAT POTATOES 

One pint potato cubes, one level tablespoon finely chopped 
onion, one level tablespoon butter, one tablespoon Tarragon 
vinegar, one tablespoon parsley, one saltspoon 'pepper, one 
well-beaten egg. Cook onion yellow in butter, then add po- 
tato cubes which have been cooked in boiling salted water, one 
tablespoon salt to six potatoes. When potatoes have absorbed 
the butter, add the vinegar. Cover and steam a minute. Add 
last parsley and beaten egg. Cook until egg is set. 

TERRAPIN OYSTERS 

One tablespoon butter, one teaspoon paprika, one salt- 
spoon salt, one-fourth saltspoon pepper, two tablespoons celery, 
two tablepoons fresh sliced mushrooms, eight oyster crabs. 
Add to chafing dish; cover and cook fifteen minutes. Add 
fifteen oysters and juice, one-fourth cup cream, one-half 
glass sherry. Serve hot. 



77 
EGGS A LA JARDINIERE 

Two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons mushrooms 
minced, one saltspoon pepper, tw^o-thirds teaspoon salt, five 
eggs. Toast. Put butter in chafing dish; add mushrooms and 
seasoning, add beaten eggs and stir until set. Serve on toast. 

LOBSTER NEWBERG 

Meat of one lobster in one inch pieces, add three table- 
spoons sherry and cook five minutes, yolks two eggs, blend 
one teaspoon cornstarch, add slowly one cup cream. Pour 
cream mixture over lobster. Stir constantly from sides to mid- 
dle until thick and creani}^. Add glass of brandy and serve. 

DEVILED TOMATOES 

Four or six tomatoes cut in thick slices, sprinkle with flour, 
saute in hot butter. Serve on hot platter with one tablespoon 
following sauce on each slice: two tablespoons butter, one 
teaspoon powdered sugar, one teaspoon drj^ mustard, one salt- 
spoon salt, one-fourth saltspoon cayenne, yolk one-half boiled 
egg. Cream the mixture and add one teaspoon chopped pep- 
per, one tablespoon parsley, one tablespoon vinegar, one table- 
spoon scraped onion. Slightly warm in pan and serve. 

BEEFSTEAK A LA MODE 

One pound steak one inch thick, two tablespoons butter, 
three slices lemon, one-half cup stock or port wine, add butter 
to pan: when melted add steak and lemon. Brown on both 
sides. Add stock and cook slowly from five to ten minutes. 
Add wine and serve. 

CREAM LOBSTER 

Meat one small lobster, one-fourth teaspoon salt, one- 
fourth saltspoon pepper, one-half cup cream, one saltspoon 
thin lemon rind, one tablespoon lemon juice, yolks three eggs, 
one-fourth saltspoon nutmeg, one tablespoon butter. Put but- 
ter in pan, add lobster. When hot add cream and, seasoning 
add egg diluted with a little cream, stir rapidly until thickened. 
Add lemon juice and serve. 



78 
CARAMEL PUDDING 

One teaspoon butter, grease pan as for omelet, add one 
cup caramel thick, made by caramelizing one cup sugar and add- 
ing one cup boiling water. Add three slices toast cut in squares. 
Cover well with the caramel. Prepare a custard and pour 
carefully over top of caramel. Cover and cook till custard is set. 
Custard: Three eggs, two tablespoons sugar, one cup milk, 
one-half cup cream, one-half teaspoon vanilla. 

OYSTERS FRIED IN BATTER 

Prepare batter of three eggs, three tablespoons milk, one 
tablespoon flour, juice of oysters, seasoning. Drop oysters in 
batter. Saute in butter to a rich brown. 

PORK TENDERLOIN WITH APPLES 

Cut in small slices one-half inch thick, sprinkle lightly 
with red pepper; add to the chafing dish one teaspoon butter 
one teaspoon scraped onion. When onion is yellow add pork. 
When a delicate brown, turn and cover with one bay leaf, four 
apples (wiped, cored, cut in rings), one tablespoon butter 
(sprinkle in small dots on top), two tablespoons sugar. Cover 
and cook till apples are tender. 

STUFFED APPLES 

Eighteen Siberian crabapples; core out at blossom end, 
forming cup. Make syrup of one cup water, one cup sugar. 
Cook apples in syrup until tender, about one-quarter hour. 

Cherried Cranberries: Take one-half pint cranberries, 
one-half cup sugar, one-fourth cup water, cook ten minutes, 
with chafing dish closely covered. When apples are cooked 
fill cup with cherried cranberries. Whip one-half pint cream, 
pile cream around apples. Garnish with Tokay grapes seeded- 



79 
MUSHROOMS 

, Cover bottom of chafing- dish with olive oil; add one 
pint murhrooms (hollow part upward), one teaspoon paprika, 
one saltspoon salt. Cover closely for ten minutes to brown. 
Serve on toast. 

Braised Mushroons: Two tablespoons butter. Heat in 
chafing dish and add thirt}^ medium-sized mushrooms, washed 
arid peeled. Cook fifteen minutes, being careful not to burn 
butter. Season and serve on toast. 

EGGS WITH MACARONI 

One-half cup milk, two tablespoons mushroom (cut fine), 
one cup cold boiled macaroni, four eggs, well mixed. Stir 
over boiling water ten minutes. Season to suit. 

CHICKEN FILLET WITH ALMOND SAUCE 

Two fillets of chicken (not fowl). For each fillet, two 
saltspoons salt, one-fourth saltspoon pepper and cayenne, one 
tablespoon olive oil, two tablespoons flour, one cup cream and 
stock (equal parts), one-half cup thinly sliced almonds. Sprinkle 
fillet with seasoning and spread with oil. When pan is hot 
add fillet and turn when a delicate brown. Add flour and 
while stirring gradually add the cream. When sauce is thick 
add the almonds. 

CHICKEN AND RICE SOUP 

Two cups chicken stock, one cup milk or cream, one table- 
spoon butter, one tablespoon flour or two tablespoons cracker 
crumbs, one-fourth teaspoon celery salt, one hard boiled egg,. 
one tablespoon Sultana raisins, one tablespoon chopped 
almonds, three heaping tablespoons soft-boiled rice, four 
heaping tablespoons finely chopped chicken, one-fourth 
tablespoon lemon rind. Begin as for white sauce add- 
ing ingredients in order given. When crackers are used 
mix them with the cream and add last. When cream is used 
omit butter. Season highly with salt and pepper. 



80 

STEAMED BANANAS 

One cup boling water, one cup granulated sugar, one salt- 
spoon yellow lemon rind, one small ba}^ leaf, six cloves, one 
inch stick cinnamon, one-half lemon (juice), six under-ripe 
bananas. Put sugar on with water and spices, cut bananas in 
half then across, add bananas and separate in syrup. Cover 
and cook till clear and soft. Add lemon juice before serving. 
Serve with whipped cream, plus one-half cup powdered sugar, 
one saltspoon cinnamon. 

MOCK TERRAPIN 

One cup dark meat of boiled chicken, two tablespoons but- 
ter, one tablespoon flour, one-fourth cup cream, one saltspoon 
salt, one-fourth saltspoon mace, one-fourth saltspoon cloves, 
one-fourth saltspoon cayenne, one-fourth teaspoon Worces- 
tershire, one hardboiled egg, one-fourth cup stock with 
giblets, one-fourth cup sherry. Start as for white sauce. Add 
sherry just before serving. 

COMPOTE OF FRUIT AND RICE 

One cup fruit mixture: Banana, orange, cherries, cinna- 
mon and cloves; peaches and plums; pineapple, peaches and 
green gages; two cups soft boiled rice, whites two eggs, six 
tablespoons powdered sugar. One-half cup sugar for un- 
cooked fruit. When syrup of fruit boils add fruit cut in small 
pieces, add spice, etc. Beat whites stiff, adding powdered 
sugar, then fold through rice. When fruit boils arrange souffle 
of rice around edge of dish and cook until egg is set. Deco- 
rate rice with angelica, cherries, or cherried cranberries. 



JELLIES AND PRESERVES 



Delectable dishes of preserved plums, and peaches and pears and 
quinces together with bowls of milk and cream all mingled higgledj, 
piggledy. — Irving's Sketch Book. 



SPICED GOOSEBERRIES 

Six pounds fruit, three pounds sugar, three tablespoons 
cinnamon, three tablespoons cloves, one-fourth pint vinegar. 
Boil half an hour. Mrs. J. Fulton. 

SPICED GRAPES 

Five pounds grapes, three pounds sugar, two teaspoons 
each cinnamon and allspice, one-half teaspoon cloves. Pulp 
grapes, cook and strain through sieve. Boil skins until tender, 
add pulp, sugar, spices and vinegar to taste. Boil thoroughly 

Mrs. Mason. 

PRUNE JELLY 

One pound prunes, water to cover, one-fourth box gelatine, 
one cup sugar, one teaspoon vanilla. Wash prunes, soak over 
night. In the morning cook in water in which they were soaked 
until very tender; drain off liquor, seed the prunes, and cut 
into small pieces with knife; put stones into liquor back'[on 
stove, add sugar and gelatine previously dissolved in a little 
cold water. Strain, add prunes and vanilla and turn into mold 
to cool. Serve with sugar and whipped cream. 

Mrs. W. C. Wilkinson. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE 

One quart cranberries, two small cups water, two large 
cups granulated sugar. Cover and stew gently one hour. 
Strain and mould. Contributed. 



82 

GRAPE RELISH 

Ten pounds grapes, six pounds brown sugar, one quart 
vinegar, one teaspoon each cloves, allspice, cinnamon, pepper 
and salt. Separate pulp and skins. Cook pulp until seeds 
are free and strain through a seive. Put all together and cook 
one hour. Mrs. J. S. Carter. 



Night. 



PICKLES 

'I warrant there's vinegar and pepper in it." — Shakespeare, Twelfth 



FRENCH PICKLES 
Let stand in weak salt water three days closely covered 
then take weakened vinegar scalding hot and pour over three 
mornings. It may be necessary to add a little vinegar each 
day. Wipe them dry. Take a few small onions boiled soft and 
drain; then to half-gallon vinegar add three tablespoons white 
mustard seed and three tablespoons black mustard seed, three 
of celery seed, a handful of juniper berries. To this vinegar 
add one-fourth pound of ground mustard mixed in cold vine- 
gar, two pounds granulated sugar. This is enough for three 
hundred pickles. Add to the mixture one handful small green 
peppers and a bottle of English chow chow. Let all this boil 
down rich and pour over pickles in jars hot. 

Mrs. Charles Allen Marsh. 

GREEN TOMATO SLICED PICKLES 
Select green tomatoes, slice thin, sprinkle salt over them 
and let them remain all night. In the morning drain off the 
water. To a gallon of tomatoes add two tablespoons of cloves, 
two of pepper, two of allspice, two of cinnamon, two green 
peppers chopped fine, two cups brown sugar, one cup grated 
horseradish, one spoonful mustard. The spices should be 
whole and tied in a cloth and scalded in the vinegar. Put in 
the tomatoes, cook until tender. Cover well in the vinegar. 

Mrs. D. a. Peirce. 

TOMATO CATSUP 
One peck ripe tomatoes, one cup salt, one quart vinegar, 
one small teaspoon cayenne pepper, four red peppers, two 
tablespoons mustard, six tablespoons cinnamon. Cook toma- 
toes and pepper a little and strain through a sieve, then cook 
all together one hour. Mrs. J. S. Carter. 



84 

CHILI SAUCE 

One dozen large ripe tomatoes, four onions, two red pep- 
pers. Chop these together fine. Two tablespoons salt, two 
tablespoons brown sugar, one tablespoon cinnamon, three cups 
vinegar. Boil one and one-half hours. Mrs. W. I, Getz. 

SWEET PICKLED PEACHES 

Peel one peck peaches; they should not be too ripe or they 
will be too soft. Boil three quarts of vinegar, one cup of water,, 
three pounds granulated sugar, one ounce mixed spices (taking 
out most of the mustard seeds) and a few sticks of cinnamon, 
and also a few cloves. Boil this mixture for half an hour then 
add the peeled peaches and cook until tender and put inta 
glass jars. Mrs- Ernest D. Burton. 

CHOW CHOW 

One large cauliflower, one quart green cucumbers sliced 
legthwise, three dozen small cucumbers, two dozen small 
onions. Soak cucumbers in brine two or three days and scald 
the rest in strong salt and water. Add pepper, whole cloves,, 
alspice and stick of cinnamon as you choose. Scald the fol- 
lowing and when well mixed pour over the pickles: Two and 
one-half quarts vinegar, two and one-half cups brown sugar, 
one-half cup flour, six tablespoons ground mustard. Bottle 
in wide-mouthed bottles or glass cans. Seal. 

Mrs. O. S. Bass. 

WATERMELON PICKLE 

Prepare rind and let stand in salt and water over night. 
In the morning boil in clear water till tender; five minutes be- 
fore taking up add one teaspoon pulverized alum. Take up 
and drain well. Make syrup of six pirvts sugar, three and one-half 
pints vinegar. Tie up spices in a thin bag and put into syrup. 
Put in the rinds, boil gently one hour and seal in jars. 

Mrs. H. G. Walker. 



GREEN TOMATO PICKLE 

Eight pounds green tomatoes chopped fine, four pounds 
light brown sugar, and boil three hours. Add one quart vine- 
gar, one teaspoon each mace, cinnamon and cloves. Boil fif- 
teen minutes. Mrs. Mason. 

CHOW CHOW 

One peck green tomatoes, one cabbage, one-half dozen 
onions, one-half dozen peppers (seeded), one-half pound mus- 
tard seed, one tablespoon dry mustard, one tablespoon black 
pepper. Chop the tomato fine, put into an earthen vessel, and 
stew gently with a cup salt allowing them to stand several 
hours to draw out juice. Chop cabbage and pour over it scald- 
ing water, drain in twenty minutes. Over the mixture pour 
three quarts scalding vinegar. Ready for use in one week. 

Mrs. F. J. Miller. 

RIPE TOMATO PICKLES 

One cup chopped celery, six medium-sized onions, one cup 
sugar, one-half cup salt, two ounces ground cinnamon, one 
ounce each white mustard seed and black pepper, one peck 
tomatoes. Mrs. Le Roy Hill. 



CANDY 

"As the last taste of sweets is sweetest last." 

— Shakespeare, Richard ii. 



PLANTATION DROPS 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one-half cup water, two 
tablespoons vinegar, butter size of walnut. Boil until brittle in 
cold water. Cool just a little and add one-fourth teaspoon es- 
sence peppermint. Pull on hook If possible until light colored. 
Cut in small oblongs and dip in powdered sugar. 

Miss Grace Peabody. 

FUDGES 

Let two cups sugar, one cup milk, one-eighth pound 
Baker's chocolate, and one fourth cup butter come to a boil, 
then stir continually until done. This may be determined 
by pouring a little of the candy out into cold water. If it 
hardens enough so that it can be worked into a soft ball it is 
done. After taking off the stove stir until it thickens, 
then add a few drops vanilla and pour into a buttered pan. 
Chopped nuts or coocanut may be added. Cut into squares. 

Miss Mary Chandler. 

FUDGES. 

Three cups granulated sugar, one cup milk, one teaspoon 
butter, one fourth cake Baker's chocolate. Boil till gummy in 
cold water then beat in a pan of cold water and pour into but- 
tered pans to cool. Mrs. H. E. Slaught. 

PEANUT BRITTLE 

Put four cups granulated sugar into a dry granite pan. 
Melt over a slow fire, stirring all the time. When it is all 
smooth add one cup finely chopped peanuts. Pour the candy 
into an unbuttered pan to cool and then break into small 
pieces. Miss Chandler. 



87 

CREAM TAFFY 

One pound granulated sugar, one teaspoon butter, one 
tablespoon vinegar, water to wet thoroughly. When the mix- 
ture boils add one-half teaspoon cream of tartar mxied in 
cold water. Boil until it is brittle when tried in cold water. 
Pull over a hook, adding vanilla to taste. 

Miss Grace Peabody. 

CANDIED WALNUTS 

One cup C. sugar, one of granulated, one-half cup water. 
Boil until it is very brittle in cold water. Do not stir at all. 
Have a pound of walnuts cracked and halved, then put them 
into candy a few at a time and remove them with the sharp 
point of a knife. Put them on a buttered plate or marble slab 
and let them get very cold. 

. Miss Grace Peabody. 

PEPPERMINT DROPS OR WAFERS 

Two cups granulated sugar, one-half cup boiling water. Let 
boil hard four minutes. Take off, stir in a tablespoon con- 
fectioner's sugar and four drops peppermint, drop on greased 
paper and let cool. Any flavor may be used. Stir all the 
time until cool enough to drop. Mrs. Jennings. 

OPERA CARAMELS 

Two cups confectioner's sugar, one cup half milk half 
cream. Take care not to stir until after it has boiled. Boil 
until it makes a ball in cold water, then beat as rapidly as pos- 
sible, and add two teaspoons vanilla or one-third cup finely 
grated chocolate. When too stiff to beat longer work with 
hands like dough until it is perfectly smooth, then flatten it 
out and cut into caramels. Miss Grace Peabody. 



CHOCOLATE CREAMS 

White of one egg, same amount of water, one-half tea- 
spoon vanilla, then put in confectioner's sugar until it is stiff 
enough to handle. Make out into little balls and let stand for 
a few minutes, then dip in melted chocolate. 

Miss Burton. 

FRENCH CREAMS 

Use half as much water as granulated sugar. Boil until it 
strings, but take it off the fire the instant it does. While it 
boils keep the edges clear of sugar by rubbing with a wet cloth 
tied around a stick. Pour the syrup out upon a marble slab. 
Let it cool a little and then stir until it is white and creamy. 
This cream is called "foudant" and may be made up into dif- 
ferent kinds of candy. English walnuts or candied cherries 
may be put on top of each candy, almonds are generally 
blanched and covered with the cream. Miss Chandler 

COCOANUT BALLS 

Cocoanut balls are made by adding dessicated cocoanut 
to the foudant described in the preceeding recipe. Roll into 
balls and dip in granulated sugar. Miss Chandler. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS 

Make the foudant as for French creams into round or 
conical shapes. Melt Baker's chocolate over steam; push a 
broom-straw into each cream shape, and holding it by the two 
ends of the straw dip it into the chocolate, making a thin coat- 
ing. The chocolate dries almost immediately and the creams 
are covered unbrokenly all over. ' Miss Chandler. 

STUFFED DATES 

Remove seeds from dates then stuff with nuts, which may 
be chopped or otherwise. If chopped, firmly pinch dates to- 
gether, then roll in granulated sugar. 

Miss Mary Chandler. 
L.ofC. 



SALTED ALMONDS 
Blanch nuts by placing them in boiling water until 'skins 
ifeadily peel off, then put into a pan with butter and salt and 
brown, stirring often to prevent burning. 

Miss Mary Chandler. 

FINE CREAM CANDY 

To four cups of granulated sugar add three tablespoons of 
glucose and one cup boiling water. Cook on a hot fire until it 
will make a soft ball in cold water. Remove from fire and 
beat until stiff enough to mould. Roll into balls and put on 
these nuts or cherry, or use as stufifing for dates. Flavoring 
and coloring matter should be added while the mixture is be- 
ing beaten. Cocoanut may be used, making a cocoanut candy 
or the candy may be used as a foundation for chocolate creams. 
Care must be taken in the use of glucose, as too much makes 
the candy pasty. Miss Whittlesy. 

BUTTERSCOTCH 

Four cups brown sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup 
of water. Boil until it strings or is brittle when tried in cold 
water. Do notstii. Add a little vanilla. Pour on a marble slab 
or into a pan set in cold water. Miss Chandler. 

PATTIES 

One pound powdered sugar, six tablespoons of water, 
pinch of cream tartar, eight drops of oil of peppermint or win- 
tergreen. Take out spoonful of dry sugar and put in cup and 
mix oil and cream of tartar with it. Put the water with rest of 
sugar and cook until it threads then add the mixture from cup 
and stir until creamy. Drop from end of spoon on to buttered 
papers. Miss Burton. 

WALNUT CREAMS 

One cup C sugar, one cup granulated, one cup milk, butter 
size of an egg, one small cup chopped walnuts. Let sugar and 
milk come to boil, add butter. Let boil till it will make ball 
in cold water, remove from fire, add nuts and one teaspoon 
vanilla, beat a few minutes and pour onto marble slab. Flatten 
and cut into squares. Miss Grace Peabody. 



90 

VINEGAR CANDY 

Three cups white sugar, one-half cup water, one-half cup 
vinegar, butter size of walnut. After it begins to boil stir con- 
tinually until it strings when dropped from spoon. Pour out 
on buttered plates until cool enough to handle then pull until 
white. Miss Chandler. 

MOLASSES TAFFY 

One and one-half cups sugar, one and one. fourth cups mo- 
lasses, one-half cup water, one tablespoon vinegar, one table- 
spoon butter. Do not stir more than necessary to keep from 
burning. Boil until it strings when dropped from spoon, add 
pinch of soda before pouring out on buttered plates. When 
cool enough to handle place on hook and pull to a bright yel- 
low color. Pull out into long strips and cut into small pieces. 

Miss Chandler. 
POPCORN BALLS 

Boil one pint molasses for twenty minutes after it begins 
to boil. Pour it over six quarts popped corn. Wet the hands 
in cold water and form the mixture into balls. This makes 
tnenty large balls. Miss Chandler. 

MAPLE FUDGE 

Over one pound cake of maple sugar chopped into small 
pieces pour enough hot water to cover. Add one-half cup 
granulated sugar, butter size of egg. Stir constantly. When 
boiling add slowly one cup milk. Cook until by dropping in 
cold water it can be moulded with the fingers then remove 
from fire and beat until very thick. Pour into buttered pans. 
Nuts may be added to this. Miss Whittlesy. 

"CHAIN-'O-LAKES CANDY." 

Granulated sugar three pounds, two cups rich cream, one- 
half cup water, one heaping tablespoon butter. Stir 
these together in the cold. Boil twenty or twenty-five 
minutes. Don't stir on stove. Flavor to taste with va- 
nilla. Pull until white. Allow to cream twenty minutes or 
half an hour. Contributed. 



SUNDRIES. 



"Get me some repast, I care not what so it be wholesome food. 

— Shakespeare. 



CHEESE BALLS 

Three Neufchatel cheeses or one Waukesha cream cheese^ 
one-half pound nuts, almonds or walnuts with shells or about 
one-third pound shelled. Chop the nuts quite fine and mix 
cheese and nuts with a spoon. Mould into balls the size of 
small walnuts. They improve on standing twenty-four hours. 

Mrs. Baxter. 
CHEESE SOUFFLE 

Put two tablespoons of butter in a saucepan, add one heap- 
ing tablespoon of flour. When smooth, add one-ha-lf cup of 
milk, one-half teaspoon of salt and a few grains cayenne. Cook 
two minutes. Add the yolks of three eggs well beaten and 
one cup grated cheese. Set away to cool. When cold 
add the whites beaten to a stiff frpth. Turn into a buttered 
dish and bake twenty-five or thirty minutes. Serve immediately. 

Mrs. a. H. Cole. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

Two tablespoons flour, three tablespoons grated cheese, a 
little cayenne, a little salt. Use enough egg to moisten to. a 
stiff dough. Roll our thin and bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. LeRoy Hill. 

BAKED OMELET. 

Stir a tablespoon of flour into a little milk and make a 
paste. Cook a little. Add a teaspoon of butter and pepper 
and salt to taste. Beat the whites and yolks of six eggs separ- 
ately. Stir the yolks into the paste and add one-half teaspoon 
of baking powder and then the whites. Grease a frying-pan 
on the stove, pour in the mixture and leave on stove until it 
sets. Finish in moderate oven. Test by opening a place with 
a knife blade. Fold over and turn into a hot platter. Serve 
immediately. Mrs. Carey. 



92 
BIRDS NEST OF EGGS 

Toast rounds of bread and dip in hot cream salted. For 
each round beat to a stiff froth the white of one egg slightly 
salted jleaving each yolk in its shell. Heap the white on the 
round of toast. In a depression made in the center of each 
heap put a lump of butter. On this put a yolk dusted with 
salt and pepper. Bake in oven till yolk is done and white 
slig-htly browned. Serve immediately. 

Mrs. Ella M. Burns. 



OMELET 

Take the crumb of slice of bread', soak it in hot milk, beat 
whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, mix the bread with all the 
milk it will absorb, no more, into a paste, add the yolks of eggs 
with a little salt. Set the pan on the fire with an ounce of 
butter. Let it get very hot then mix the whites of the eggs 
with the yolks and bread lightly. Pour into the pan and move 
about for a minute; when brown underneath put in the ov^n 
until the top is set. Mrs. C. M. MacLean. 



FRUIT PUNCH 

Boil together for five minutes, one pound of sugar and one 
and one-half cups water. Skim and cool. Add one and one- 
fourth cups Ceylon tea, one pint of syrup drained from canned 
strawberries, one cup lemon juice, one and one-half cups orange 
juice and one quart of grated pineapple. Cover and let stand 
for one hour; strain and add ice water enough to make six 
quarts. Add one quart Apollinaris water and serve, dropping 
on surface a few strawberries, candied cherries or bits of pine- 
apple. Mrs. a. H. Cole. 



93 
NUT SANDWICHES 

Four hard boiled eggs chopped fine or put through a 
press, one cup of English walnuts chopped, stir together 
until moist with the following dressing: Two cups sweet cream 
one cup vinegar, two tablespoons cornstarch, two tablespoons 
sugar, one tablespoon dry mustard, four eggs, yolks and whites 
beaten separately. Mix all dry ingredients together, put in 
yolks of eggs, pour in hot milk and vinegar slowly and cook 
until like custard. Stir beaten whites in after the custard is 
removed from fire, set in a dish of cold water and stir until 
cold. Use double boiler. This dressing will keep some time. 

Mrs. J. Fulton. 
HORSERADISH SAUCE FOR SANDWICHES 

One-fourth cup butter, four even tablespoons cream, one- 
half even teaspoon Tarragon vinegar, one-fourth teaspoon 
salt. Cream the butter, add the other ingredients. 

Miss Shervv^in, 

Boston School of Housekeeping.^ 

PRUNE SOUFFLE 

Whites of five eggs, one-half cup chopped prunes, one-half 
cup sugar. Cook the prunes, seed and chop very fine without 
the juice. Put a pinch of salt into eggs and beat very stiff, 
add the sugar gradually beating all the time. Then add the 
prunes a little at a time. Put all into a granite pudding dish 
which has been greased and bake in a moderate oven about 
twenty minutes, or until set. Serve with whipped cream. 
Chopped apples or peaches may be used instead of thc- 
prunes. Miss Culton. 




tGGFFEE 

K^ .'NFORTto ROASTER & ("A"" ^'' *^ 

,ChaSe > Sa>8orm> 

s5^^-^ B o s T o Nj;;_^,'>": 




BEVERAGES 

RASPBERRY SHRUB 

Take any quantity of berries red or black. Cover with 
vinegar and stand over night. Cook until well heated through, 
then drip, not squeeze, through a bag. Add the same quantity of 
sugar as juice and cook until sugar is well dissolved. Skim 
and bottle. It will not ferment. 

Mrs. a. G. LESTER. 

GRAPE SHRUB 

Wash the grapes and put them on to cook with just enough 
water to cover them. When the skins are well broken strain 
off the juice through a cloth or fine colander. Add to the juice 
enough sugar to make it fairly sweet, bring to a boil and can 

Miss Chandler. 

RULES FOR BREWING COFFEE 

Use one part coffee (Chase & Sanborn's "Seal Brand") to 
six parts water — i. e., to one cup even full of dry ground 
coffee, use six cups of water. Heating (not burning) just the 
required quantity of coffee (roasted berry or ground) for each 
batch, immediately before brewing, by placing in a pan in the 
oven, stiring gently, will greatly improve the aroma and fra- 
grance. Have your coffee ground as fine as ordinary granu- 
lated sugar, or so that the large particles will not exceed in 
size the head of a pin. 

Place in the pot your coffee and pour boiling water on it. 
Be sure the water is boiling. Then allow the entire contents to 
boil five minutes, (not longer). As soon as brewed, clarify 
with the white of an egg dissolved in small amount of water, 
and to render the coffee liquor absolutely free from floating 
particles strain through fine flannelette cloth into the table cof- 
fee pot. Serve as soon as these directions are completed. A 
delay of fiifteen minutes will allow much of the aroma and fla- 
vor to escape. 

The above rules apply to the making of coffee in the plain 
old fashioned cylinder coffee-pot. 



ADDENDA 



PIE-CRUSTS AND PANCAKES FOR DYSPEPTICS. 

One and one-fourth cups each of sifted almond meal and 
pastry flour: salt and one-third cup water. Have all ingredi- 
ents as cold as possible. Mix the meal, flour and salt, add 
water, and roll out without kneading. This is a rich, tender 
crust, but less almond meal and more flour also give good re- 
sults. A good crust- can also be made of the almond paste 
used for macaroons. These crusts can be easily digested when 
lard and butter crusts cannot be eaten. 

Mrs. Kate Nuding. 

PANCAKES ON SHREDDED WHEAT BISCUITS 

Four eggs, two pints sweet milk, five and one-half shred- 
ded wheat biscuits rolled and sifted, one and one-fourth cup 
entire wheat flour and one teaspoon salt. Beat eggs very light, 
add salt, crumbs and flour^ Mix well and add the milk a little 
at a time; beat well. If the flour, which maybe white if pre- 
ferred, is nicely brown first, a confirmed dj^speptic need not; 
fear to eat these cakes. Rolled and sifted granose may be 
used in place of the shredded wheat biscuits — a cup and one- 
half being required for above rule. It is well to brown lightly 
a quantity of flour and keep it closely covered. It can then 
be used usually in place of ordinary flour in cooking, though 
of course it is not necessary where the family's digestions are 
unimpaired. 

DATE CUSTARD FILLING FOR PIE 

Remove the seeds from one pound dates, cover with water,, 
boil until tender and press through colander. Stir in two 
beaten eggs, two tablespoons cornstarch or flour and one quart 
new or unskimmed milk. Prepare a crust as for custard-pie. 
This will make two pies, Celia A. Cole. 



INDEIX 



Addenda gg 

Advertisements 98-114 

Beverages 95 

Bread _ _ 35_39 

Candy 86-90 

Cakes, Cookies, etc 41-52 

Chafing Dish _ 71-80 

Dressings ...: ' _ 29-34 

Fancy Cookery 71-80 

Fish ._....__.: __, ii_iQ 

Frozen Dainties 67-70 

Introduction 3 

Jelly- -- 81-82 

Meats 17-22 

Marketing _ 5 

Oysters. _ ; ii_i6 

•P'cl^Ies 83_85 

Preserves 81-82 

Pies :._. 53_56 

Puddings __ 57_65 

Sauces 1 7-22 

Salads 29-34 

Salad Dressings 29-34 

Sundries 91-93 

Soups _ _ 7_2 

Things to Remember ....23-24 

Vegetables. ._ 25-28 



The women of the Hyde Park Baptist 
Church wish to thank the following firms 
who, by their advertisements, have made 
the publication of this book possible: 



Silver Burdette & Co. 
P. A. Lindblad 
A. J. Sachtleben 
Borden's Milk Co. 
Lester B. Jones 

A. N. Warner & Co. 
Widmann 

B. J. Parker 
M. L. Brennan 
Frederick F. Bowen 
Mrs. F. K. Colby 
Carr Bros. 

South Park Storage & 

Commission Co. 
M. L. Parker 
Henry C. Malzen 
Walsh 

Herzka Bros. 
Holland's Pharmacy 
Parker Bros. 
W. L. Robinson 
The Hoops Tea Co. 
Chicago Grocery Co. 
F. Leonard 
Jas. E. Maloney 

The Winde 



H. D. Hess 

American Market Co. 

A. McAdams. 

G. W. Show's Bakery 

J. H. Kintz 

Black Bros. 

Wheeler & Wilson 

William Sachen 

Arm & Hammer Brand 

Soda 
C. G. Lines & Co. 
C. H. Rice 
J. H. Wilkes 
J.J.Gill . 
Jackson Park Cash Mar- 
ket 
University Express 
Dwight's Cow Brand 

Soda 
C. H. Diehl 
Nagle Sisters 
W. S. Martin 
Hannah M. Hart 
H. F. Eggers 
Chase & Sanborn 
rmere Press 



XHniver8(t'2 l^ipress ®ffice 


LAKE 

STEAMBOAT 

TICKETS 

and 
MONEY 
ORDERS 

FOR SALE 
^^ 

Accurate 
Railway 
Information 




BAGGAGE 

EXPRESS MATTER 

AND FREIGHT 

HANDLED PROHPTLY AND 
AT REASONABLE RATES 




Qobb ftym, ■^be XHn'versftg ot dbtcago 



THE HOOPS TEA CO. 

FOR THE BEST TEAS AND COFFEES 



AS GOOD TOMORROW 
AS THEY ARE TODAY 



35 J 3 HALSTED STREET 

TELEPHONE YARDS 875 




W. S, MARTIN 



Plumber 
and 
6a$ fitter 

special attention to 
all kinds of repairing 

450 East 

Fifty-Fifth 
Phone Street 

Oakland 780 



C* G* Lines & Co* 



HrtistlC 



Old 

frames 

re-gilded 



picture 



Passe- 
par-touts 
a specialty 



dFtamlng 



2J4 East 57th Street 




320 Fifty- Fifth Street 

One door east of post office 

Correct and reliable. Best 
cloths for suits, trousers and 
overcoats always on hand 



Mal6b 



We are in touch with 
the latest novelties 
and importations of 
leading stjles. 
Ladies who appreci- 
ate the latest should 
not miss calling at 



274 55tb St 366 m^ $1 



MRS. F. K, COLBY 



Ch 



Classes in 



ina 



Painting 



ORDERS TAKEN FIRING DONE 



6141 GREENWOOD AVENUE 



Frederick F. Bowen 

Piano Cuner and 
Repairer 

5406 Kimbark Avenue 



REFERENCES 



Hallet & Davis Co., Piano Mfrs, 
Schaff Bros. Co., Piano Mfrs. 
The l?'lajton Lyceum Bureau 
A. J. Goodrich, Musical Author and 
Theorist 



mr. Cestcr Bartklt ]one$ 



TENOR 



580 E. Sixtieth Street 



Recitals 



Teaching 



You are invited to visit and inspect 


1. Ques.: Where can I be best 


at any time the improved work- 


fed? 


rooms of the consolidated 


Ans.: At home. 


and enlarged business 
of 


2. Ques.: And best clothed.? 




Ans.: At 


G. W. Show's Bakery 


fierzka Dm. 


246-48 55th St. 


Tailors 




Removed to 


We -wish you to see that our rooms, 


U5 Fifty-third St. 


utensils and workmen are clean and 
that our goods are made from the 


Cleaning and Pressing 


purest and best of materials. 


Orders called for and delivered 


FOR PURE FOOD GO TO 


P. A. LINDBLAD 


H. D. HESS 


Practical 

Painter 


5436-38 
LAKE AVENUE 


and 
Paperhang'er 


DEALER IN 

Staple and Fancy 
Groceries 


QRAININQ AND CALCiniNINQ 

Estimates Furnished 
Tel. Oak. 136 




Residence 5616 Jefferson Ave. 


Telephone Oakland 693 


247 E. 57th St. 



B. M. PARKER 



L. A. PARKER 



PARKER BROS. 



Livery and Boarding Stables 



5317-5323 
Lake Avenue 



Carriages furnished at short notice. 



Cabs to all depots 



Telephone Oakland 1246 



Call up Oakland J 243 



OFFICE OF 



m. L Robinson 
Coaieo. 

5229 Lake Avenue 



WHEN YOU WANT COAL 
QUICK FROM 
LARGE STOCK 



M. L. BRENNAN 

fine 
millinery 

23J FIFTY-FIFTH ST. 
CHICAGO 



James E* Maloncy 

UPHOLSTERING 
DRAPERY AND 



SHADE WORK 



MATTRESS RENOVATINQ 



Carpet cleaning, lay- 
ing, and renovating 
on floor. Furniture 
packed for shipment. 



Estimates Cheerfully Given 



Tel. Oak. 206 212 E. Fifty-fifth St. 



midmanns 



LEADERS 

IN GOOD THINGS 

TO EAT 



TWO STORES 



53rd St. and 
Lake Ave. 



47th St. and 
Lake Ave. 



3Bor6en*6 



CONDENSED 
MILK 

FLUID MILK 

Cream and Buttermilk 

All bottled in the 
country 

Borden's Condensed Milk Co. 

627-633 E. 47th St. 



Carr Brothers 

DEALERS IN 

TINWARE HARDWARE 

HOT AIR FURNACES 

HOUSE FURNISHING GOODS 

CROCKERY and GLASSWARE 

5311-13 Lake Aventte 



^mwawwsss&jfl^i^ 



Soutb PiirH 
Storiige 2ii)^ 
GoiQiQJssioQ 
Co. 



5650-52 
liMt Ave. 



5 Wheels rented, repaired 
ffi and exchanged 

]§ Furniture bought, sold on 

ffi commission or exchanged 

£ Separate rooms for storage 

H PackingjShipping, expressing 

£ TEL. OAKLAND 464 



AVOID BULK SODA 



Bad Soda Spoils Good Flour. 

"Pure Soda-the Best Soda* comes 
only in Paskaqes 

Bearing trade Mark; ARM and HAMMER. 

It costs no more than inferior package Soda 
—never spoils the flour— always keeps soft. 

Beware of Imitation trade marks and labels, 
and INSIST ON PACKAGES 




bearing these words— 



SOLD BY GROCERS EVERY WHEl^E. 



Write for Arm and HaiTirtier BooK of Valuable Recipes- KRKE. 




Umptint J J 

is tbe li 

Bt'amp of ^ 

Superlorttis ^ 



THE HYDE PARK 
CUISINE WAS 



PUBLISHED 



tl)c Ulindcrmcrc Press 

5648=50 
©tons Hslani Bve. 

PRINTERS PUBLISHERS 
BINDERS 



ffl WPIPIEPnSSwW W wKwPmiJhSWBB 



JACKSON PARK 
CASH 

MARKET 



Nick Johansen, Prop. 



HIGH GRADE MEATS 

Poultry and Game 
Fish and Oysters 

266 E. FIFTY=SEVENTH ST. 



BLACK BROS. 

IMPORTERS OF 

Teas 

and 

Coffees 



Agents for the famous Fatfst 
Mocha and Java Coffee 



Satisfaction insured 
or money refunded. 



J277-279 EAST 57th STREET 



A. N. WARNER 



C. H. BRANO 



J\. n. Earner $ go. 

Dry Goods 

and 

men's 
f urnisbings 



Tifty-tbird St. and Cake Jloe. 
ebicago 



GELATIN CREAM TARTAR 



The real purity and strength 
are represented incur 



Plavwlng Extracts 



Without the addition of anj 
artificial or foreign products 



J. J. GILL 



Cbeipist iiDi Fb&rmaicist 

2^4 E. 57th St. 



Telephone Oakland 175 



BORAX AMMONIA SODA 



C. H. Rice 



HARDWARE 



249 E. 57th St. 

Tel. Oak. 464 

COMPLETE LINE OF KITCHEN 
UTENSILS 



Including Pearl Agateware, Tinware, 
Oil and Gas Stoves, Wash Boilers, 
Wash Tubs, Wringers, Wash Boards, 
Pails, Brooms, Mops, Scrub Brushes,, 
Dusters, in fact everything needed in 
the kitchen. 

PRICES RIGHT 



Henry C. Malzen 

Groceries 

and 

meats 



We keep wp the quality 
We keep down the price 
You should trade with us 



11 7- 1 1 9 E. 53d St. N. E. Cor. Lake Ave. 



Telephone Oakland 691 



TEL. OAKLAND 718 



A. Mc Adams 



FLORIST 



GREENHOUSES 

Cor. 53rd St. and Kimbark Ave. 
Chicago 



r-r% -U f Is it not a fact that )'ou do your Sewing in the 

1 o nousekeepers ^STd?i"ed?''"'''^' ""''^ '"^ ^'' 

Labor and Time Must be Saved 

You cannot afford to Sew by hand, neither should your life be burdened with a slow-sewing and 

hard-running Sewing Machine. 
ARE YOU AWARE that The No. 9 Wheeler & Wilson is the lightest running lock-stitch Machine 
in the world? 

YOU CAN SAVE one day out of every three by 
using the "No. 9," for it 
sews one-third faster than any vibrating shuttle 
Sewing Machine made. 




WHEELER & WILSON MFG. CO., 82 and 80 Wabash Ave, 



NOTARY PUBLIC 



TEL. OAK- 136 



B, J. Parker 



REAL 

ESTATE 
LOANS 
RENTING 
INSURANCE 



247 Fifty=seventh St. 



NAGLE SISTERS 



Tine Tee Creams 
and Ices 



GENERAL CATERING 



Tamily trade 
a Specialty 



102 Oakland 2J5 E. 57th St. 




Milk 



I tell Milk from my farm at 
Union, Illinois, certified by 
State Board of Live Stock 
Commissioners to be free 
from tuberculosis. 



F. Leonard 



5314 

MONROE 

AVE. 



HANNAH M. HART 

LADIES' HAIR DRESSING 
and MANICURING PARLORS 

. 242 55th St., Pullman Bldg., 
Hyde Park 



Open evenings 
'til 8 



Telephone 
5832 Drexel 



CHICAGO GROCERY CO. 

280 E. 55th St. 

EVERYTHING FIRST CLASS 

Tel. 542 Oak. 

ARTHUR NUTTALL, MGR. 

M. L. PARKER 
D.RV GOODS 

FURNISHINGS 

312 East 5STh Street 
Cor. Monroe Ave. 

BUTTERICK PATTERNS 
MENTHOL TOOTH POWDER 

ANTISEPTIC 

Preserves the gums and 
beautifies the teeth 

For sale bj 

JOHN & W. E. HOLLAND 

55TH St. and Madison Ave. 

A. J. SACHTLEBEN 
BOOTS AND SHOES 

Repairing on short notice 

290 East Fifty-fifth Street 
and 6304 Cottage Grove Avenue 



EGGERS 

FOR 

QUALITY 



THE BEST IS NONE TOO 
GOOD FOR YOU " 



EGGERS 

FOR 
QUALITY 



To obtain good results in trying the 
recipes in tiiis book use only the 
best materials. To be posi- 
tive you are receiving 
such goods buy of a 
reliable dealer 



H. R EGGERS 

FINE 

Groceries and Meats 

Corner Madison Ave. 
and 55th St. 



No sidewalk 

display exposing edibles 

to the mercy of wind, dust 

and rain. No alluring signs, but 

Honest Goods at Honest Prices 



Chase & Sanborn's ''Famous" Boston 
Coffees 

Tel. Oak. 88 



EGGERS 

FOR 

QUALITY 



TO LIVE WELL^EAT 
THE " BEST" 



EGGERS 

FOR 
QUALITY 



See nie for 


5. 1b, 1kint3 


estimates on 




all kinds of 
Interior 


Jackson 


Decorating" 


Park 


Paper 
Hanging- 


Stables 


Tinting" 




Painting and 


273 Bast 57tb Street 


Hard Wood 


Helepbone 552 ©aftlanS 


Finishing 




C_7 


Chicago Beach 


J. H. WILKES 


Del Prado 


Cor. 55th Street and 


Hyde Park 


Ridgwood Court 


Windermere 




Livery 










C. H. DIEHL 






AMERICAN 


C^rpeoter \j)i 


MARKET CO. 


Bailder 


George C. Pape 




Manager 


Screens, Storm Doors and Sash 




made and Repaired. Glass and 


282 E. 55th Street 


Glazing. Estimates furnished on 




all kinds of carpenter work. All 




orders for jobbing promptly at- 


Choice meats of all kinds ■ 


tended to. 


Poultry and game in season 


SHOP 




401 E. 57TH STREET 

REAR 


Tel. Oakland 542 


SOUTH PARK 





D WIGHT'S Cow Brand 




kOW 
PRICE. 



ESTABLISHED 



To avoid 'disappointment, insist upon having COW BRAND 

in original packages, and don't be put off with cheap, inferior 

substitutions. n i_ tn • i^^ v z^- ivi n i 

John uwight & Co., /Nsw york. 

',oai, Send address for Cow Brand Cook Book— Free 



"Zht morld and m People" 



These awakening books give Geography an absorbing interest. Maps, bound- 
aries, and cities seem alive as the pupil reads these graphic descriptions of countries 
and peoples. Behind the map a real world arises, tangible and bright hued. 

INTRO. PRICES 

Book I. First Lessons. i6o pp 36c 

A pleasing and simple introduction to the series. 

Book II. Glimpses of the. World. i6o pp 36c 

A happy title which opens the door to the world at large. 

Book III. Our Own Country. By Minna C. Smith. 222 pp — 50c 

Full of bright descriptions and pictures of our own land. 

Book IV. Our American Neighbors. By Fanny E. Coe. 332 pp. 60c 

About the other countries and peoples on this hemisphere. 

Book V. Modern Europe. By Fanny E. Coe. 404 pp. 60c 

It is of the people themselves, rather than of the more hackneyed topics, that 
this captivating volume treats. 

Book VI. Life in Asia. By Mary Cate Smith. 334 pp 60c 

From sunny India to arctic Siberia, from Palestine to Japan, the chapters flow 
on with unflagging interest. 

Book VII. Views in Africa. (Complete.) By Anna B. Badlam. 450 pp 72c 

Parts I. and II. (separate) 284 pp. Each 48c 

Stories of intrepid explorers, of trackless forests and their savage inhabitants, 
of the opening of this continent to white men, and the growth of modern States. 

Book VIII. Australia and the Islands of the Sea. By Eva M. C, Kellogg. 

450 pp_ 68c 

Descriptions of the Philippines, Cuba, and Porto Rico and Hawaii, as well as 
other great island centres of life and power, make this volume most timely. 

Book IX. Hawaii and Its People. By Alexander S. Twombly. 384 pp 68c 

A comprehensive and up-to-date narrative of our new possessions, just from the 
author's pen. Heroic legends, authentic history, and present conditions are 
graphically presented andfprofusely illustrated. 

Circulars of these books, together with our catalogue of edu- 
cational publications in all branches, sent free. Sample 
copies sent on receipt of introductory price. 



Silver^ Burdett & Company^ Publishers 

Boston New York Chkagfo 



IWAY 15 1900 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




010 339 570 7% 



