X 813 
S9 C6 
Jopy 1 




MJSCHW 

M 





by JAJNE E. 




ft 



WINTERS [TO REMARQUE 



OTHER BOOKS 

By JANE E. CLEMMENS 



The Luscious Strawberry 

Peaches in Season and Out 

Bread, Breakfast and Tea Cakes 

Celery with Variations 



Each of the above four volumes 

is artistically bound and 

contains more than 

fifty recipes; 

price, 25c 

each 



T 

JANE E. CLEMMENS 

SPRINGFIELD, OHIO, 



The Luscious 
Strawberry 




COPYRIGHT 

By JANE E. CLEMMENS 

H 



TWO COPIES RECEIVED. 

Library of Congret* 
Office of tbe 

MAY 1 1 1800 

Seglitor of Copyright 



SECOND COPY. J'ed.'lJJlfw 




61399 



*♦*♦ CONTENTS *♦*♦ 



Strawberry Balls 12 

Strawberry Baskets 12 

Strawberry Bavarian Cream 12 

Strawberry Blanc Mange 13 

Strawberry Buns 13 

Strawberry Candy 14 

Strawberry Charlotte Russe 14 

Strawberry Cream 14 

Strawberry Creams 14 

Strawberry Crusts 15 

Strawberry Cup Custards 15 

Strawberry Dumplings 16 

Strawberry Floaty 16 

Strawberry Frappe 16 

Strawberry Fritters 17 

Strawberry Gelatin 17 

Strawberry Gelatin Jelly 17 

Strawberry Gelatin with Whipped 

Cream 18 

Strawberry Ice 18 

Strawberry Ice Cream 19 

Strawberry Ice Cream No. 2 19 

Strawberry Mousse 19 

Strawberry Omelet 20 

Strawberry Pie 21 

Strawberry Pudding 21 

Strawberry Pudding No. 2 21 

Strawberry Steamed Padding 22 



Strawberry Salad 22 

Strawberry Sauce 22 

Strawberry Sherbet 23 

Strawberry Sherbet No. 2 23 

Strawberry Shortcake 23 

Strawberry Shortcake No. 2 24 

Strawberry Cake with Whipped 

Cream. 24 

Strawberry Soup 25 

Strawberry Sponge 25 

Strawberry Tapioca 25 

Strawberry Tartlets 26 

Strawberry Toast 26 

Strawberry Water Ice 26 

Strawberry Whip 27 

Strawberries Beaten 27 

Strawberries Delicious 27 

Iced Strawberries 27 

Strawberries in Cases 28 

Strawberries Jellied 28 

Strawberries Molded 28 

Strawberries with Whipped 

Cream 29 

Canning 29 

Jam 30 

Jam No. 2 30 

Jelly 31 

Bottling Juices 32 

Strawberry Preserves 32 

Strawberry Wine 32 



The Luscious Strawberry 



H^HE STRAWBERRY is the fruit of Spring, the exquisite 
scarlet offering of dewy May. In the northern and east- 
ern markets we have strawberries coming from Maryland. In 
the latter part of the month berries begin to come from New 
Jersey, and in the southern markets during this month are in 
perfection. 

Fruit is no longer regarded as a luxury, but rather as a 
necessary article of food on our tables, and the intelligent 
housekeeper knows that nothing contributes so largely to the 
health of the family as a generous diet of fruit in its different 
varieties throughout the season. 

Good ripe fruit contains a large amount of sugar, which 
forms in itself a light, nourishing food, and is equally valuable 
as an aid to the digestion of other food. Strawberries contain 
about eight per cent of sugar, three per cent of pectin, and 
one per cent of acids, one per cent of flesh forming albuminoids, 
with a very large per cent of water. 

Science tells us that digestion depends upon the action of 
pepsin in the stomach upon the food, which is aided by the 
acids of the stomach. Fats and starchy foods are digested by 
these acids, hence the value of raw fruits as an aid to digestion 
after a heavy meal, and fruit is so largely used on our breakfast 
tables that it is an exception to find one without the daintily 
piled dish as a center piece and used as the first course at the 
morning meal. No matter how small the income, fruit should 



always be served at breakfast. During the winter season, if 
fresh fruit is beyond the means, serve a dish of stewed fruit. 
You will find it cheaper than medicine. 

Strawberries for breakfast are best served whole, with 
their stems intact, so that they may be dipped into the 
powdered sugar and eaten one by one, or they may be served 
by picking them carefully, and sprinkling with powdered sugar. 
They will make bread and butter very appetizing. 

While ripe fruit in its natural state is both wholesome and 
delicious yet for variety we may serve fruits in a number of 
dainty dishes, which are very nourishing, and the recipes here 
given include some of the time-honored tarts, puddings and 
rich fruit delicacies of our grandmothers as well as many so 
up to date they might be termed twentieth century recipes. 
With such variety we may please all appetites and "every man 
shall eat in safety." 



THE LUSCIOUS 
STRAJVBERR Y. 



STRAWBERRY TUTAKE a good biscuit dough and roll it 
BALLS out a quarter of an inch in thickness; 

cut it into squares, put a spoonful of berries 
on each square, bring the corners together and place the balls 
on a buttered tin. Melt one tablespoonful of butter and one 
tablespoonful of sugar in one-fourth of a cup of boiling water, 
and brush the dough balls with it. Bake in a hot oven and 
serve with any preferred sauce. * 

9999 



STRAWBERRY "DEAT together the yolks of two eggs, add 
BASKETS one-half cupful of cold water. Mix 

and stir this into one cupful of flour and 
beat until smooth. Add one-half of a teaspoonful of salt and 
one tablespoonful of melted butter and beat again. Whip the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff dry froth, mix them carefully into 
the batter and set away for a couple of hours. Have ready a ket- 
tle partly filled with smoking-hot fat; heat in a Swedish timbale 
mold, lift it out, drain, dip it into the batter and plunge into 
the smoking-hot fat. When golden brown shake the cup 
off on unglazed paper; reheat the iron and make another basket 
in the same way. Continue until the desired number has been 
prepared. Hull and wash the berries. Fill the baskets, dust 
with powdered sugar and serve. 

9999 

STRAWBERRY COAK one-third of a box of gelatin in one- 

BAVARIAN ^ third of a cupful of cold water; when 

CREAM dissolved, drain, and stir into one-half pint 

. of boiling cream. Beat the yolks of three 

eggs with one cupful of sugar and add to the boiling mixture a 



THE LUSCIOUS 
STRAWBERRY. 



little at a time. Heat until it begins to thicken, then add one 
tablespoonful of lemon juice and one cupful of strawberry 
juice, strain and set on ice until chilled and beginning to 
harden, add one cupful of whipped cream and whip gently un- 
til the mixture is of the consistency of sponge-cake batter. 
Line the bottom and sides of the wetted mold with strawber- 
ries, pour in the mixture and set on ice until ready to serve. 



??** 



STRAWBERRY CTEW the berries, strain and sweeten to 
BLANC MANGE ^ taste. Turn into a sauce pan and let 
come to boiling point, then add one table- 
spoonful of cornstarch dissolved in cold sweet milk, allowing 
this amount to each pint of juice. Stir until thick, then pour 
into wetted molds, and when cold serve with sugar and cream. 



¥¥9¥ 



STRAWBERRY "DRING to scalding point five cupfuls of 
BUNS milk, let cool, season with salt, add one 

yeast cake and enough flour to make a drop 
batter. Beat thoroughly. When light stir into it one pound 
each of butter and sugar (previously creamed), add enough 
flour to make a soft dough and let rise again. When light 
make up into buns, working into the slit a teaspoonful of 
strawberry jam, then pinch the slit together; place the bun3 
on well greased tins. Let rise the third time, then bake in a 
hot oven. Wash over with beaten egg while hot. 



THE LUSCIOUS 
STRAWBERRY. 



STRAWBERRY "R^L one pound of sugar, as for lemon or 
CANDY vanilla taffy; add two tablespoonfuls 

of strawberry juice (strained.) Boil until 
it hardens, when dropped into very cold water. Drop in but- 
tons on a greased tin. When cold put in air tight boxes if to 
be kept for any length of time. 

^^ 

STRAWBERRY COAK one-third of a box of gelatin in 
CHARLOTTE one-third of a cup of cold water for 

RUSSE two hours, then add one-third of a cup of 

boiling water, one cupful of sugar and one 
tablespoonful of lemon juice. Place the dish containing the 
mixture in ice water; add one cupful of strawberry juice and 
stir until the mixture is cold. Add the whites of three eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, and beat until it thickens. Turn into 
a wetted mold lined with strawberries, and set in a cool place 
until ready to serve. Serve with whipped cream. 

¥$¥¥ 

STRAWBERRY piLL china cases half full of berries, then 

CREAM fill the cases up with one ounce of 

gelatin dissolved in one-half cupful of milk, 

sweetened to taste. Set on ice until ready to serve. Serve 

with whipped cream. 

STRAWBERRY TNTO a sauce pan put one cupful of granu- 

CREAMS lated sugar. Add one-half of a cupful 

of boiling water and stir over the fire until 

the sugar is dissolved, no longer. Boil steadily until a little of 



THE LUSCIOUS 
STRAWBERRY. 



the syrup dropped into a cup of very cold water can be rolled 
into a soft ball between the fingers. Take quickly from the 
fire and pour into a slightly greased dish or platter. As 
soon as cool enough to bear the fingers begin to stir with a 
wooden spoon and continue stirring until too stiff to be longer 
stirred. Take up quickly in the hands and knead and work 
until smooth and creamy. Have ready a number of large un- 
hulled berries which have not been washed. Place the prepared 
cream in a clean sauce pan and mash and stir over the fire un- 
til soft. Dip in the berries one at a time and as fast as coated 
with the cream, lay them on a sheet of waxed paper. Serve 
within twelve hours or the cream will melt. 



*W*- 



STRAWBERRY £UT the upper crust of a loaf of bread 
CRUSTS into squares, lay on each a few berries, 

add a dot of butter, a bit of sugar and a 
dust of spice, if desired. Heat in the oven. They are much 
better to serve with coffee in hot weather than the winter 
batter cakes. 



**#* 



STRAWBERRY ORING to boiling point one quart of rich 
CUP CUSTARDS milk; add slowly four eggs previously 

beaten with four tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and a pinch of salt. Stir constantly until the custard thick- 
ens, keeping it hot, but do not let it boil. Remove from the 
fire and pour over sweetened strawberries, and set on ice until 
ready to serve. 



THE LUSCIOUS 
STRAWBERRY. 



STRAWBERRY TWfAKE a good biscuit dough and roll it 
DUMPLINGS out a quarter of an inch in thickness; 

cut it into squares and put a heaping table- 
spoonful of berries on each square, sweeten, bring the corners 
together and place them on a buttered tin. Brush the dough 
with a mixture made of one tablespoonful of butter melted, 
one tablespoonful of sugar and one-fourth cupful of boiling 
water. Bake in a hot oven, and serve at once with a rich 
sauce. 

STRAWBERRY "QISSOLVE two tablespoonfuls of corn- 
FLOAT starch in enough cold water to mix to 

a cream. Pour this into one pint of freshly 
boiling water and stir until thick and smooth. Add a pinch of 
salt, two-thirds of a cupful of sugar and stir for ten minutes 
over the fire. Add one tablespoonful of lemon juice, one-half 
of a cupful of strawberry juice and one pint of berries washed 
and cut into bits with a silver knife. Serve cold with sugar 
and cream or whipped cream. 

¥?¥¥ 

STRAWBERRY TJAVE at hand a pineapple, an orange 
FRAPPE Malaga grapes, a peach and straw- 

berries. Peel the fruit carefully, removing 
skin and seeds, and hull the berries. Cut all into small pieces, 
dice or shreds, and mix together. Pour some sweetened water 
over the whole mass and freeze to frappe consistency. Serve 
in cups and as the ice is fitted into each individual one, a spoon- 
ful of whipped cream may be dashed over it. Serve as soon as 



THE LUSCIOUS 
STRAWBERRY. 



STRAWBERRY CELECT the large, finely flavored berry. 
FRITTERS Make a batter of three well beaten 

eggs, four tablespoonfuls of milk, a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, a teaspoonful of baking powder 
and a little salt mixed in a small cupful of flour. Drop the 
berries in the batter one or two at a time, taking out at once 
and frying in very hot lard. When a delicate brown on both 
sides, dust with powdered sugar, and serve at once. 



K^** 



STRAWBERRY FJISSOLVE three ounces of gelatin in a 

GELATIN little cold water; stir in the juice from 

one cupful of red currants; add one cupful 

of strawberries, and sweeten to taste with powdered sugar. 

Serve very cold with whipped cream. 



^*^* 



STRAWBERRY /"\NE quart of strawberries, one rounded 
GELATIN JELLY cupful of sugar, juice of one lemon, 

two-thirds of a package of gelatin dissolved 
in one cupful of water, and one pint of boiling water. Mash 
the berries and strain through a coarse muslin or cheesecloth 
bag. Mix the sugar and lemon juice with the dissolved gelatin, 
pour over the boiling water, stir until clear, then strain 
through a flannel bag; add the strawberry juice and strain 
again, without squeezing the bag. Wet a mold, with a cylin- 
der in the center, pour in the jelly and set on ice to form. 
When ready to serve fill the center with whipped cream. 



THE LUSCIOUS 
STRAWBERRY. 



STRAWBERRY "T\ISSOLVE three ounces of gelatin in a 
GELATIN with little cold water, into it squeeze the 

Whipped Cream j u i ce f rom a p j n t f red currants and 
sweeten to taste with powdered sugar. Turn 
one pint of ripe strawberries into a bowl; pour the gelatin 
over, and when slightly thick mold. Set on ice until chilled. 
Serve with whipped cream. It makes a prettier dish to turn 
the mixture into a border mold, filling the center with whipped 
cream; then set on ice. 



**W 



STRAWBERRY *"PAKE a fresh pineapple, three oranges, 
ICE three lemons, one cupful of strawberry- 

juice, two cupfuls of water, two and one- 
half cupfuls of sugar (more if necessary.) Cut off the top of 
the pineapple, trim off the bottom so it will stand firm and up- 
right, and with a knife and strong spoon scoop out the edible 
inner part, leaving the shell intact if possible. Shred or chop 
the pineapple fine, cover with a cupful of sugar and let it 
stand four or five hours to extract all the juice. Add the orange, 
lemon and strawberry juice, and bring to a boil the remaining 
sugar and water. Pour over the fruit, stir until the sugar is 
dissolved, then strain through a cheesecloth bag. When cold 
freeze as other water ice. When ready to serve heap into the 
shell of the pineapple, which should have been kept on ice, and 
surround it at the base with the leaves from the crown, or you 
may mold it in any preferred shape or serve in orange shells. 
If canned pineapple is used less sugar will be required. 



THE LUSCIOUS 
STRAWBERRY. 



STRAWBERRY QCALD one pint of milk in a double boiler; 
tCE CREAM add one scant tablespoonful of flour 

blended in. a little cold water, stir until 
slightly thickened and cook for ten minutes. Beat together 
five eggs and two cupfuls of sugar; add to the cooked milk and 
stir until thickened like custard, strain and set aside. Hull, 
wash and rub through a sieve one quart of berries. To the 
custard add one pint of cream, put into the freezer and turn 
for a few minutes until cold. Add the berries and one table- 
spoonful of lemon juice and freeze until stiff. Take out the 
dasher, pack down the ice in the freezer, repack with ice and 
salt and set aside for a couple of hours. 



???? 



ICE CREAM CPRINKLE sugar over the berries, mash 

NO. 2 well and rub through a sieve. To a 

pint of the juice add one-half pint of good 
rich cream. Make very sweet and freeze in the usual way. 
When beginning to set stir in lightly one pint of cream 
(whipped), lastly a handful of whole berries, sweetened. Turn 
into a mold and set it in ice. 



¥¥¥$ 



STRAWBERRY "LJULL, wash and drain one pint of ber- 

MOU55E ries and rub through a fine sieve; add 

one cupful of powdered sugar and one-third 

of a box of gelatin which has been dissolved in a little cold 



THE LUSCIOUS 
STRAWBERRY. 



water. Set aside until the mixture begins to thicken, stirring 
occasionally to keep it from setting firmly round the sides of 
the bowl. Add a pinch of salt to the whites of five medium- 
sized eggs and whip them to a stiff froth. Stir these into the 
mixture and turn lightly through until a little dropped from 
the spoon will retain its shape. Turn into a wetted mold, cover 
tightly, bind the edges with a buttered cloth and bury in a 
mixture of finely chopped ice and rock salt, two-thirds of the 
former to one of the latter. Set aside for two hours, then 
turn out and serve. 



■&999 



STRAWBERRY XJULL, wash and drain one pint of berries; 
OMELET sprinkle over them one-half of a cup- 

ful of powdered sugar and let stand for 
twenty minutes. Beat toget' er the yolks of six eggs, a little 
salt, one tablespoonful of cornstarch mixed with one-half 
(scant) teaspoonful of baking powder and one cupful of milk. 
Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add to the 
yolk mixture, stirring constantly. iJelt one-half of a 'table- 
spoonful of butter in a large pan and when hot pour in the 
mixture. As the eggs set slip a broad-bladed knife under 
them and to keep from burning, but do not stir. Shake the 
pan constantly and when the under side is lightly browned set 
the pan in the oven for three minutes. Sprinkle one-half of 
the prepared berries over the omelet; fold, turn it out on a hot 
platter, dust with powdered sugar and garnish with the re- 
mainder of the berries. 



THE LUSCIOUS 
STRAWBERRY. 



STRAWBERRY FINE a pie-plate with good paste, prick 
PIE over with a fork to prevent shrinking 

and blistering; cut a top crust out a little 
larger than the other, prick also and bake; put the berries and 
sugar in the lower crust and cover with the top one. Serve 
with rich cream. The berries may be cooked in the pie, as you 
would make blackberry pie, if preferred. 



**** 



STRAWBERRY QNE quart of sifted flour, two scant 
PUDDING tablespoonfuls of shortening, one-half 

a teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, mix well, then add enough milk or water to 
form a soft dough. Roll out thin and spread with berries; roll 
it up and tie in a cloth. Place in a steamer and steam until 
well done. 



^^^ 



PUDDING "DEAT two eggs and one cupful of sugar 

No. 2 together; add two cupfuls of milk, one 

pint of flour and one and one-half teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder and a pinch of salt. Mix into a smooth 
batter and stir in as much fruit as the batter will receive. 
Turn into a well buttered mold and bake thirty minutes in a 
hot oven. Serve with a spice or any preferred sauce. 



THE LUSCIOUS 
STRAWBERRY. 



STRAWBERRY /"\NE pint of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
STEAMED baking powder, one-half teaspoonful 

PUDDING of salt, one cupful of milk, two tablespoon- 

fuls of melted butter and lard mixed, two 
eggs, one-half cupful of sugar and one pint of berries. Mix 
the baking powder and salt with the flour; add the milk and 
butter and lard. Beat the yolks of the eggs; add the sugar, 
and beat them well into the dough. Then add the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a stiff froth; add the berries rolled in flour. 
Turn into a well greased pudding boiler. Boil continually for 
two hours. Serve with cream sauce 



??¥9 



STRAWBERRY DEEL and pick to pieces with a silver fork 
SALAD a ripe, sweet pineapple; place it in a 

salad bowl, sprinkle with sugar and add a 
layer of strawberries (about a quart); sprinkle well with sugar 
and place on top of this a layer of thinly sliced oranges. Cover 
closely with finely cracked ice, and pour over the whole a glass- 
ful of any preferred fruit juice. Surmount the dish with a 
ball of cherries or fine large strawberries tied by the stems 
with a knot of ribbon. At dessert when the salad is served,, 
remove the ribbon, loosening the fruit, which may be mixed 
with the rest in true salad fashion. 



???? 



STRAWBERRY pRESS the juice from a pint of hulled 

SAUCE berries; put it into a sauce-pan with 

the juice of one lemon, one-half of a cupful 

of sugar and the beaten yolks of four eggs. Beat over the 



*~*a 



THE LUSCIOUS 
STRAWBERR V. 



fire with an egg whip until the mixture begins to rise; take off 
quickly, continue to beat for two minutes; add the stiffly- 
whipped whites of the eggs, and serve at once with pudding or 
dumplings. 



STRAWBERRY n^O ONE quart of berries, mashed, add 

SHERBET three pints of cold water and the juice 

of one lemon, let stand for two hours, then 

strain and add to one pound of sugar. Stir constantly until 

dissolved, then turn into a freezer and freeze hard. 



**W 



SHERBET "VYTASH one heaping quart of hulled ber- 

No. 2 ries, drain and mash to a pulp, ad- 

ding at the same time a pound of sugar. 
Let stand for two hours, then add the juice of a lemon and three 
pints of cold water. Stir thoroughly and strain through a 
coarse bag, pressing hard, so as to extract all of the juice. Set 
on ice until chilled and serve with a little crushed ice in the 
glasses. 



STRAWBERRY TWriX thoroughly one quart of flour, two 
SHORTCAKE rounded teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 

der, a little salt and one tablespoonful of 
sugar, and into this chop three tablespoonfuls of butter. Add 



THE LUSCIOUS 
STRAWBERRY. 



one cupful of sweet milk and one well beaten egg. Put to- 
gether as quickly and with as little handling as possible. Roll 
into sheets one-half inch thick. Bake in a well greased pan, 
laying one sheet on top of the other; as soon as baked separate 
them and spread between the crusts a thick layer of well 
sweetened berries, also cover the top with berries. Serve with 
sugar and cream. 



SHORTCAKE "DEAT together one cupful of sugar and one 

No. 2 tablespoonful of butter; add three eggs 

which have been beaten very light; sift to- 
gether two cupf uls of flour and a rounded teaspoonf ul of baking 
powder with a little salt. Stir together, using enough milk to 
make it roll out easily. Bake as directed in No. 1. 



^*^ 



STRAWBERRY NE cupful of sugar ' two eggs ' tw0 table ~ 
CAKE with spoonfuls of softened butter and four 

Whipped Cream tablespoonfuls of water; beat all together 
thoroughly; add one cupful of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar and one-half teaspoonful of soda 
sifted together. Bake in cake tins, and when ready to use the 
cake spread with strawberries and cover with whipped cream, 
sweetened and flavored with vanilla. If two layers are made, 
cover with the top one, spread with berries and then with 
whipped cream. Put whole berries on top. 



THE LUSCIOUS 
STRAWBERRY. 



STRAWBERRY A LLOW a level tablespoonful of arrow- 
SOUP root to each pint of fruit juice (or 

two-thirds fruit juice to one-third water) 
and sugar to sweeten. Strain the fruit juice, heat to boiling, 
add the arrow-root rubbed to a paste with a little cold water, 
and cook until it is perfectly clear, adding meanwhile the 
sugur to taste. Take from the fire, add a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice and set aside to cool. Serve in small punch glasses or 
cups. Half fill them with finely cracked ice and cover with 
the soup. Eat with a teaspoon. 

^^ 

STRAWBERRY COAK one-third of a box of gelatin in one- 
SPONGE ^ third of a cupfull of cold water for 

two hours. Mash one-pint of berries with 
one-half cupful of sugar. Boil together one-half cupful of 
sugar and one-third cupful of water for five minutes. Rub the 
berries through a sieve and add to them the juice of one lemon. 
Pour the boiling syrup over the soaked gelatin, remove from 
the fire and pour over the strained berries. Stand in ice water 
and stir until it begins to thicken. Add the stiffly whipped 
whites of two large or three small eggs, and one cupful of 
cream whipped to a solid froth. Whip gently until the entire 
mixture is stiff. Line the bottom and sides of a wetted mold 
with berries, pour in the mixture and set aside until firm. 



STRAWBERRY OUT one cupful of fine tapioca and one 

TAPIOCA quart of water in a double boiler and 

cook until clear. Rub one pint of berries 

through a fine sieve and add with one cupful of sugar to the 

25 



THE LUSCIOUS 
STRAWBERRY. 



tapioca, cooking until smooth and thick. Let stand until 
nearly cold then pour over one quart of hulled berries. Serve 
with rich cream flavored with sweetened strawberry juice. 



^^** 



STRAWBERRY \ INE the required number of tartlet molds 
TARTLETS with thin puff paste, place in each a piece 

of writing paper and fill it with flour. Bake 
in a moderate oven and when done remove the filling. When 
cold fill with hulled berries, dust with powered sugar and 
heap whipped cream over each one. 



*^^ 



STRAWBERRY 
TOAST 



TARAIN one pint of strawberries, and 
mash the fruit; then stir them in their 
liquid. Pour over slices of hot well buttered 
toast. 



9999 



STRAWBERRY QNE cupful of strawberries, one cupful 

WATER ICE each of currant and cherry juice, use 

as much water as fruit juice, and enough 

sugar to make the mixture quite sweet. Freeze the same as 

any water ice. 



THE LUSCIOUS 
STRAWBERRY. 



STRAWBERRY "VJT7ASH, hull and mash one pint of straw- 
WHIP berries. Beat the whites of two 

eggs to a stiff froth, add six tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugar; then whip in the berries until very thick 
and stiff. Pile lightly on a glass dish and serve with sponge 
take. Or whip until the mixture will keep its shape and pile 
in small cups. Serve at once. 



BEATEN TYTASH, hull and cut or mash slightly one 

STRAWBERRIES W cupful of strawberries, beat the 
whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, add two 
rounded tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and the berries to 
the eggs, and beat until very thick and stiff. Pile it lightly on 
a glass dish and serve with sponge cake or angel food. 

DELICIOUS CTEM ripe berries, place in a bowl, spread 

STRAWBERRIES ^ thick with powered sugar, squeeze over 
the juice of half dozen oranges, set on ice to 
chill, and serve with or without cream. 

ICED CELECT large perfect berries with long 

STRAWBERRIES ^ stems. Whip the white of an egg to a 
soft froth. Dip into it each berry, roll in 
powdered sugar and again in egg, and so on until you have the 
icing of the desired thickness. Finish by rolling in sugar and 
lay on a platter. Serve within an hour. 

27 



THE LUSCIOUS 
STRAWBERRY. 



STRAWBERRIES piLL little china cases half full of straw- 
IN CASES berries. Mix an ounce of dissolved 

gelatin in one-half cupful of rich milk and 
four ounces of powdered sugar. Stir until the gelatin is 
melted; add two tablespoonfuls of whipped cream, and fill up 
the cases with the mixture. Set on ice until cold. 



*&Ti 



JELLIED TI7TELT three ounces of gelatin in a little 

STRAWBERRIES water; squeeze the juice from a pint 

of red currants into it; sweeten with 
powdered sugar. Place a pint of ripe berries in a bowl pour 
the gelatin over. When slightly thick turn into a border and 
mold; fill the center with whipped cream. Set on ice until 
chilled, and serve. 



*?^* 



MOLDED OEAT the yolks of three eggs with three 

STRAWBERRIES tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; add 

one cupful of rich milk and cook until 
thick. Remove from the fire, add one-fourth box of gelatin 
dissolved in a little cold water; stir well and strain. Stir in 
one-half cupful of cream and flavor to taste. Line the sides of 
a dish with lady fingers, cover the bottom of a mold with chop- 
ped fruit or whole berries and pour in the mixture, continue a 
layer of fruit and custard until the dish is full. Set on ice until 
cold. Serve with whipped cream. 

28 



THE LUSCIOUS 
STRAWBERRY. 



STRAWBERRIES £UT the center out of sponge drop cakes, 
with Whipped fill each with sweetened berries, and 

Cream spread a tablespoonful of whipped cream 

over them. Serve at once. 



CANNING pOR one quart can of fruit when done, 

STRAWBERRIES L two quarts of fresh berries will be 
required. The berries should be looked over 
carefully and washed; a colander is useful for washing them 
in. Then put them into a granite pan and put into a 
steamer over briskly boiling water, cover closely and 
steam ten minutes, or until the fruit is just heated through. 
In the meantime, take two cupfuls of granulated sugar and put 
in a granite or porcelain stewpan, add a cupful of boiling water 
and set over the fire to melt and come to a boil; when the 
berries have steamed as directed, lift them out carefully into a 
can, and immediately pour over them the boiling hot syrup which 
you have prepared. If this does not fill the can to brimming 
over, add enough boiling water to flush the can, put on rubber, 
and screw top in place and the berries are done. Be sure they 
are tightly sealed. My judgement is that it is best to put only 
enough berries in the steamer at one time for a can of fruit. 
Of course you can keep more than one steamer going if you 
desire. It is very important in canning to have all cans per- 
fect, to have the rubbers intact and the tops to fit, if the edge 
of the cover is bent up even a little, it will offer an opening 
for the air. When I empty my cans during the winter, I 
always cleanse and air them thoroughly; then drop the rubber 
in the can on which it belongs, put the lid on and set away, 
ready for next canning season; thus saving myself the trouble 



THE LUSCIOUS 
STRAtTBERR Y. 



of picking out and trying on perhaps a half dozen rubbers and 
lids before 1 get one that fits the can. To prevent cans break- 
ing when filling them with hot fruit, place them upon a wet 
cloth folded several times. It does not matter whether either 
cloth or can be hot or cold, they will not break. Cans that 
have been used for pickles should be put in a boiler with warm 
water and add some concentrated lye, bring the water to boil- 
ing point and then take from the fire and let the cans remain 
in it until the water is cool enough for you to handle them. 
The covers should always be treated in the same way, and 
rubbers that have been used on pickle cans should never be 
used again. You have the 'surety that your fruit will not 
spoil, if put into perfect cans, perfectly sweet and clean, and 
the canned goods put away in a dark place. The fruit should 
not be over ripe when canned. 



STRAWBERRY CELECT perfectly ripe fruit pick carefully 
JAM and hull. Put into a porcelain kettle 

four pounds of strawberries, one pint of red 
currant juice and two pounds of sugar. Boil the berries and 
currant juice first, add the sugar and boil up again, skimming 
well. Put in cans seal tightly and keep in a cool place. 



JAM NUMBER OICK and hull the berries; bruise them 

TWO well, and take an equal weight of 

sugar, mix with the fruit and set over a 

slow fire; boil it twenty minutes, taking off the scum as it 

rises, pour it into the cans and when cold tie them down. 



THE LUSCIOUS 
STRAWBERRY. 



STRAWBERRY CELECT fine-colored, fresh, ripe fruit; set 
JELLY — over a slow fire; so the juice will flow. 

When perfectly clear, usually twenty min- 
utes; strain through a jelly bag without pressing. If not per- 
fectly clear strain the second time. Let simmer fifteen 
minutes; then add one pound of granulated sugar to each pint 
of juice and boil ten minutes longer. The general directions 
for making jelly are: Cover the kettle and boil slowly until 
the fruit is broken to pieces. Put the fruit, juice and all, in a 
coarse jelly bag, hang the bag in a warm place to allow the 
juice to drip. Toward the last of the dripping take two spoons 
and press very lightly on the sides of the bag to help the 
remaining juice through. But I would make this last dripping 
up by itself as it is apt to make your entire lot of jelly cloudy. 
Measure the juice as directed. Put the juice over the fire, and 
after it begins to boil let it continue boiling for twenty 
minutes. Do not cover it, and do not let it boil too hard. Skim 
well. When you put the juice on, place the sugar in a pan in 
the oven to heat; stir it up frequently from the bottom, when 
the twenty minutes is up throw the sugar into the boiling 
juice, stirring constantly. When the jelly just comes to a boil, 
dip out with a jelly dipper. Have ready a heated pitcher with 
a piece of cheesecloth wet with hot water over the top. 
Strain all the jelly by pouring into the pitcher through the 
hot cloth. Have the jelly glasses standing in hot water; take 
out drain and turn the jelly in from the pitcher. Fill the 
glasses full and set away to cool. If it is not quite as solid 
the next day as you wish, set the glasses in the sun, and it will 
shrink to any desired consistency. Cover the glasses with 
white paper dipped in brandy. 



THE LUSCIOUS 
STRAWBERRY. 



BOTTLING TT is very important to have a supply of 

JUICES bottled juices for winter use. The juice 

should be pressed from the perfect fruit, 
sweetened, heated, put into bottles with rubber corks, it will 
keep well and is nearly as good as fresh fruit for flavoring 
creams, etc. 

¥99? 



STRAWBERRY HPO one pound of hulled strawberries add 
PRESERVES one pound of sugar; turn into the 

preserving kettle, place over a slow fire, 
until the sugar is dissolved, then let boil as fast as possible 
for twenty-five minutes; have the cans ready and put the fruit 
in very hot; and seal the cans at once. Keep in a cool dark 
place. 



■U999 



STRAWBERRY H^O the juice of three quarts of straw- 
WINE berries mashed and strained; add one- 

half the quanity of red currant juice. To 
each quart of fruit juice allow one quart of water and one 
pound of loaf sugar. Ferment it in a clean, sweet cask; when 
fermentation has finished, put into bottles and cork tightly. 
This is a good wine for cooking purposes and for invalids. 



3 a 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 638 086 4 



