




T X 
715 

P945 




LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 



Cliai). Copvri 



ip Copyright No. 

Shelf..P^.45 I 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



DEC 21 ^900 



PROTILUS CLUB 
a COOK BOOK a 




4li 4^ 4^ a COMPILED BY S ^ ^ * 

Members of The Proteus Club 

^ ^ ^ DESMOINES, IOWA ^ ^ ^ 



The Geo. A. Miller Printing- Company. 



1 



91926 

{l',.ih.-Mr> of Conaresa! 

DEC 21 1900 

Copv'ignt antry 

DEC ^ 1900 

SECOND COPY 
Oftiiv *od to 

OROth OiVlSION 



^^ 



A^' 



^0| 



Ps 



COPYKIGHX BY 

PROTEUS CLUB 

DES aiOINJSS, lA, 

1900 



Geo. a. MiLLiiK 1'ki 
:^575-400 



Contents 

Suggestive Menus 



The Four Seasons 

Spring 

Summer 

Autumn 

Winter 
Holiday Dinners 
Easter BreaKf ast 
Chafing=Dish Luncheons 
Afternoon or Evening Parties 
Golf Functions 
Confections 
Invalid Dishes 



r^OOKERY means tlie.kn^. 
of Helen and of Rdbeka 
means the knowledge o: all 
spices and of all that is 1: 
and savory in meats, 
and willingness and r 
economy of your grandi 
chemist ; it means mu 
English thoroughness an 

RUSKIN. 





:lge /f Medea and of Circe and 

and/Wthe Queen of Sheba. It 

hewh and fruits and balms and 

sweet in fields and groves, 

■arefulness and inventiveness 

f appliance. It means the 

d the science of the modern 

and no w^asting ; it means 

art and Arabian hospitality. — 



spring 

Proteus Club 



Proteus Club. 

ME.NU. 

Mas. Hkkvky M. Porteb. 

BREAKFAST. 

Fresh Cherries. 

Hamburg Steak. Maitre d'Hotel Sauce. 

Potato Omelette. Graham Gems. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Cucumber Salad. Wafers. 

Cannelon of Beef. Mushroom Sauce. 

Long Branch Potatoes. 

Radishes. Thin Bread and Butter Sandwiches. 

Apple Kuehen, with Whipped Cream. 

Russian Tea. 

DINNER. 

Cream Asparagus Soup. Croutons. 

Escalloped Whitefish on Shells. 

Sliced Tomatoes and Cucumbers. 
F)'ench Chops. Mint Sauce. 

Green Peas. F^'rosted Baked Potatoes. Spinach. 

Lettiup Salad. French Dressing. 
Caramel Pudding. Whipped Cream. Nut Wafers. 

Coffee. 
Bent's Water Crackers. Cream Cheese. 



spring 

Cook Book. 

RECEIPTS. 

Hamburg SteaK. 

One round steak, two slices of bacon, one small onion, a little parsley, 
salt, red and black pepper to taste. Put all the above ingredients through meat 
grinder, then mix thoroughly with one beaten egg. Mould in flat balls and broil. 

Maitre d'Hotel Sauce. 

Four tablespoons butter, one teaspoon salt, two tablespoons chopped 
parsley, a little onion juice, dash of pepper, the juice from one lemon. Melt 
butter, stir together other ingredients. Serve over hamburg steak. 

Potato Omelette. 

Chop cold boiled potatoes fine. Put one tablespoon butter in omelette 
pan. When melted, spread evenly with the potatoes, sprinkle with salt, pepper 
and celery salt. Turn thick brown sauce over the top. Cook slowly, until 
golden brown on bottom and well heated through. Fold over half way, invert 
on platter. Serve hot. 

Brown Sauce. 

One tablespoon butter, one tablespoon flour, one cup milk, season to taste. 
I.,et the flour and butter brown before adding milk. Then add milk, one-third 
at a time, stirring all the time. 

Graham Gems. 

One eg-g, two-thirds cup New Orleans molasses, one cup sour milk, one tea- 
spoon soda, pinch of salt, two cups gi'aham flour. 

Cucumber Salad. 

Use medium sized cucumbers, all same size. Cut in half, lengthwise. 
Remove inside portion, leaving shell. Cut edible portion of cucumber in dice, 
also cut fresh tomatoes in small pieces. Add chopped blanched almonds if 
desired. 

Fill cucumber shells with tomato in one end and diced cucumbers in the 
other. Put Mayonnaise dressing in the middle and serve, a half cucumber, 
on lettuce leaf to each person. 

Cannelon of Beef. 

Two pounds lean beef, cut from round, juice of one-half lemon, one table- 
spoon finely chopped parsley, one egg, one-half teaspoon onion juice, two table- 
spoons melted butter, few gratings of nutmeg, o-^o teri-^poon ^alt. niTO-fourth 

7 



spring 

Proteus Club 



teaspoon popper. Chop meat line and add remaining ingredients in the order 
given. Shape in a mould six inches^ long, wrap in buttered paper, place on a 
rack in dripping pan and bake thirty minutes. Baste every five minutes with 
one-fourth cup butter melted in one cup boiling water. 

Escalloped White Fish on Shells. 

Shred cold baked fish. Put layer of fish on shell, then thin layer of cream 
sauce; cover with bread crumbs and bits of butter. Bake till golden brown 
in quick oven. Garnish with ^^'ater-cress. 

Apple Kuchen. 

Make thin baking powder biscuit dough ; mould in earthen pie dish (thin 
layer). Peel and quarter apples, and cut in half inch slices. Lay slices of 
apple, overlapping each other, in solid rows to the center. Sprinkle generously 
with sugar, a little nutmeg and bits of butter. Cook till apples are tender and 
golden bro\A'n and serve hot, with M'hipped cream. 

Brown Mushroom Sauce. 

One can mushrooms, one-fourth cup butter, one-half tablespoon lemon 
juice, one-fourth cup flour, two cups brown stock, salt and pepper. Drain 
and rinse mushrooms and chop fine one-half of same. Cook five minutes with 
butter and lemon juice; drain, brown the butter, add flour, and when well 
browned add gradually consomme. Cook fifteen minutes, skim, add remain- 
ing mushrooms, cut in quarters or slices and cook ten minutes. Season with 
salt and pep]>ei'. 

Cream Asparagus Soup. 

[Tsc two bundles of fresh asparagus. Coolc the tips in salted 
water; cook the i-omainder of the asparagus about twenty minutes in a quart 
of salted water. Put through a sieve. Add to this a pint and a half of thick 
cream sauce and the asparagus tips. Let just come to a boil, and serve at once. 

Lamb Chops. 

Servo lamb chops, French style, witli i polished bone. Put peas in center of 
platter, then chops, and — outside' — the minced spinach. 

Frosted Baked Potatoes. 

Wash potatoes, nnd before drying, roll in coai'se s:ilt. Tlu-n l>ak('. 

Caramel Pudding. 

Three cups milk, one cup cooked rice, half cup stigar, two tablesjxwns 
flour, yolks of two eggs. Mix flour and sugar thoroughly, add yolks, mix well 
and turn slowly into hot milk, stirring all the time. Cook in double boiler 
until thick and creamy. Add rice and enough caramel to make desired color. 



S p ring 

. Cook Book. 

and let it come to a boil. Mould in ramequins or small moulds and serve ice cold 
with whipped cream. 

Caramel Flavoring. 

_ Cook slowly one cup of sugar, one-half cup water; when it begins to brown 
stir constantly until a seal bro^\Ti. Remove to cooler place on stove ; add at once 
half cup warm water. Let simmer about five minutes till syrup is formed. 
It will keep indefinitely. 

Nut Wafers. 

One egg, two cups flour, one cup nuts, one cup sugar, half cup butter, half 
teaspoon soda in little water, one teaspoon vanilla. Roll very thin and bake 
in quick oven. 



S p ring 



Proteus Club 



MENU. 



Mrs. Geouoe Inoeksoll Gilp.ert. 



BREAKFAST. 



Oranges. 

Wheat-0, with Cream. 

Broiled Fresh Trout. Creamed Potatoes. 

Omelette, v.ith Chopped Ham. 

Flannel Cake.s, with Maple Syrup. 



Hot Biscuit. 



LUNCHEON. 

Bouillon. 

Lobster Chops. French Fried Potatoes. Radishes. 

Cresent Rolls. Pickled Peaches. 

Lettuce Salad. Wafer Crackers. 

Royal Cream. Vanilla Wafers. 

Chocolate. 

DINNER. 

Blue Points, in the Shell. 

Amber Soup. 

Planked Shad. Shoestring Potatoes. 

Stuffed Olives. Salted Almonds. Radishes. 

Pineapple Sherbet. 

Roast Duck, Peas. Plum Jelly. New Potatoes. 

Fresh Tomatoes, with Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Cheese Straws. 

Ice Cream. Confectionery. Nuts. 

Coffee. 



10 



S p r 1 n g. 

____^____________ Cook Book. 

RECEIPTS. 

Broiled Trout. 

Split the trout down the back with a sharp pointed knife and take out the 
back bone. Wash in cold salt water, drv and place on a buttered broiler and 
.place over the broiling pan, or under the gas or over the fire (if fire, then 
throw salt on the fire as it helps to retain the juices in the fish). For a sauce 
to baste the fish while broiling, melt together two tablespoons of butter, ono 
tablespoon of lemon juice, one teaspoon of salt and a dash of pepper 
Broil quickly or it will harden and dry out. When done pour the juice from 
the broiling pan over the fish and serve at once. Care must be taken not to 
scorch it. 

Creamed Potatoes. 
The potatoes should be boiled whole with the skins on, better if boiled the 
day before needed. Peel them and cut into small cubes. Heat a cup and 
a half of cream and a piece of butter the size of an egg; into this pour 
about a quart of potatoes, and allow them to cook slowly for about twenty 
minutes, or until it thickens. Stir once or twice carefullv to prevent bui-n- 
ing. Serve while hot. 

Ham Omelette. 
Place one tablespoon of butter in a skillet over a hot fire. Beat three eggs, 
separately. To the beaten yolks add one-half cup of milk, in which has been 
smoothly rubbed one teaspoon of flour, one teaspoon of salt. Then stir this 
in the stifly beaton whites. Poiir all into a hot skillet. When well set, cover 
With chopped fried ham. Fold the omelette carefully over and remove to a hot 
platter. Mnst be served at once. 

Biscuits. 
Sift together one quart of flour, two heaping teaspoons of baking powder 
and a level spoonful of salt. Add two tablespoons of butter. Mix thoroughly, 
then add one pint of milk or water, stirred in with a fork. Roll lightly and 
I)ake m a rather quick oven. The dongh shonld he as soft as it is possible to 
handle. 

Flannel Cakes. 

Sift together one quart of flonr, two heaping teaspoons of baking powder 
one level teaspoon of salt. Add to the well beaten yolks of three e-gs one pint 
of milk and a tablespoon of molasses. Stir into the flour and add eiiongh more 
milk to make a batter of the consistency desired. Last thing cut in the well 
beaten whites of three eggs. Fiy quickly on a hot griddle and sel•^-e hot with 
maple synip. 

11 



spring 

Proteus Club 

Lobster Chops. 

Pick tlie lobster into small pieces. Make a sauce of two tablespoons of 
flour, two of butter stirred over the fire until melted, then add one-half pint 
of cream. Add the lobster with salt and pepper (red pepper if desired). 
When hot add the jolks of two eggs and the juice of one or two lemons. Let 
cool. When cool make into chop shapes. Beat up the yolks of twoi eggs, dip 
the chops in the eggs and roll in cracker crumbs. Fry in hot lard until a golden 
brown. Lay on brown paper to absorb the grease. Garnish with parsley. 

Crescent Rolls. 

Sift one quart of flour and a teaspoon of sugar and one teaspoon of salt, 
rub in one teaspoon of butter or lard. Dissolve one-fourth of cake of com- 
pressed yeast in a pint of wai'm water. Mix well, and set in a warm placd 
to rise over night. Knead in the moniing fifteen or twenty minutes, or until it 
can be kneaded on an unfloured dry board. Let it rise one and a half hours 
in a warm place, until light and spongey. Cut into six or eight inch squares 
about a quarter of an inch thick. Then cut the squares into three cornered 
pieces and spread vvith melted butter. Commencing at the broad part, roll into 
crescent shapes. Let rise for an hour. Bake tv\'enty minutes in a quick oven. 

Pickled Peaches. 

Take tine large cling-stone peaches, place in boiling water a few moments, 
then in cold, when the skins will come oft" easily. To seven pounds of fruit 
take three pounds of sugar and one quart of vinegar. Boil the vinegar and 
sugar, into which have been placed little spice bags containing whole cloves, 
cinnaumn, allspice and mace. Pour it over the |>eaches. The next day pour it 
(vfF and boil aaain and |M)ur over the jwaches. Repeat this for seven days. Real. 

Pvoyal Cream. 

To one i>int of cream, whipped until stiff, add a teaspoon of vanilla, two 
tablespoons of sngar, one-half ounce of gelatine (which has been dissolved in 
cold watCM- and heated over warm water), and one pint of fresh ripe straw- 
berries. S<^t in a cool place until ready to vserve. 

Planked Shad. 

Wash the ti-^li in cold salt wat(M-. Make a dressing of one chopped onion, 
two tablespoons of parsley, a teaspoon each of other desirable herbs, all fried 
in a tablespoon of butter and mixed with one pint of bread crumbs. Lay the 

12 



spring 

Cook Book. 

fish oil au oak plank about one inch thick and bake in a hot oven for about 
an hour. (To larotcct the plank from buraing sprinkle with salt). Sen-e on the 
plank, garnished with parsley. 

If preferred the fish may be split and laid flat upon the plank, skin up. 
and baked. 

For a sauce, stir over the fire until smooth two tablespoons of butter, 
one tablespoon of flour, one sliced onion, chopped very fine, one teas}x>on of 
salt and a dash of pepper, one quart of milk, or milk and cream, then add two 
chopped, cold, hard-boiled eggs. 

Shoestring Potatoes. 
Out raw potatoes into strings and fry in hot lard until crisp and brown. 

Pineapple Sherbet. 
Grate two pineapples and mix with two quarts of water and a pint of 
sugar; add the juice of two lemons and the beaten whites of four effgs. Freeze. 

New Potatoes. 
Wash the potatoes clean, and then scrape (not peel) them. Have the 
water boiling, and let boil hard for about twenty minutes. Pour off the water, 
and serve them with butter, salt and pinch of pepper. This is much nicer than 
putting oil a cream dressing, when they are just new. 



ts 



S.p r 1 n g 



Proteus Club 



MENU. 



Mijs. Fkank Kauffman. 



BREAKFAST. 

G rape-Fruit, with Sherry. 

Cereal. Cream and Sugar. 

Bacon. Scrambled Eggs. 

Waffles, Powdered Sugar and Whipped Cream. 

Coffee. 



LUNCHEON. 

Veal Croquettes. 

Potatoes in Cases. Cabbage v/ith Mayonnaise. 

Radishes. Spiced Currants. 

Baking Powder Biscuit. 

Strawberrie.-^. Cream. 

Cocoa. 



DINNEF?. 

Corn Soup. 

Prime Roast Beef. Roast Brown Potatoes. 

Stewed Cucumbers. Asparagus on Toast. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Wafers. Olives. 

Washington Pie. Cheese. 

CoEfee. 



14 



Spring 

Cook Book. 

RECEIPTS. 

Waffles. 

Two cups milk, two eggs, pinch of salt, one tablespoon sugar, butter size 
of walnut, flour enough to make batter, two teaspoons baking powder; beat 
eggs, then add everything but baking powder. Beat well and add baking 
powder. 

Veal Croquettes. 

One cup chopped cooked veal, scant half cup thick cream sauce; season 
to taste. Mix thoroughly, roll into croquettes, dip in egg, then cracker crumbs. 
Fry in hot lard. 

Potatoes in Cases. 

Use potatoes of even size; bake until soft; break open and mash. Season 
with salt, pepper, on© teaspoon butter, one tablespoon thick cream for each 
potato. Beat until very light, add one teaspoon grated cheese for each potato, 
beat again ; heap in paper cases and browTi lightly. 

Corn Soup. 

One can of corn, chopped fine. Let simmer half hour in pint of milk; 
rub through a sieve, then add one quart thin cream sauce. Season to taste. 

Ste'wed Cucumbers. 

Pare and slice cucumbers lengthwise, boil in salt water until soft, and 
transparent. Drain the water off and cook a few minutes in cream sauce. 

Asparagus on Toast. 

Cut the asparagus in pieces about three inches long, using the tips. Boil 
in water until tender, then cook a few minutes in cream sauce. Place four 
or five pieces on a square piece of toast softened with a little milk. 

Stuffed Ton^atoes. 

Take large tomatoes, remove the insides, fill with celery and nuts and 
some of the tomato — chopped together — and mix with Mayonnaise. 

Washington Pie. 

Two heaping tablespoons butter, one cup sugar, two eggs, pinch of salt, 
half cup milk, two scant teaspoons baking powder, two scant cups flour. Cream 
the butter and sugar together ; add beaten yolks, then alternately milk and 

15 



Spring 

Proteus Club 



flour till all is used. Beat hard, add slightly whipped whites, one teaspoon 
vanilla. Bake in layers. Use following filling : 

Mix together one-third cup of flour, pinch of salt, and two well beaten eggs. 
Stir thoroughly together; dilute gradually with one pint of scalded milk; 
return to double boiler; stir and cook until very thick and smooth. Then 
cover and cook ten minutes. Stir in one teaspoon of butter, one teaspoon 
vanilla and spread between the layers of the cake, dusting the top with pow- 
dered sugar. 



!• 



spring 



Cook Book. 



MENU. 

Mbs. John Beabdslet. 

BREAKFAST. 

Strawberries, with Hulls. 

Oat Meal. Cream and Sugar. 

Soft Boiled Eggs. Creamed Potatoes. 

Whole Wheat Muffins. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 



Sweet-bread Oysters. Slices of Lemon. 

Escalloped Potatoes. Baking Powder Biscuits. 

Chocolate, Whipped Cream. 

Apricot Snowballs. Vanilla Wafers. 



DINNER. 

Tomato Soup. Croutons. 

Fried Chicken. Chicken Gravy. 

Mashed Potatoes. Asparagus on Toast. 

Lettuce. Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Prune Whip. Whipped Cream. 

Coffee. 



17 



spring 

Proteus Club 



RECEIPTS. 

Creamed Potatoes. 

Mince cold boiled potatoes, put in spider with melted butter; let 
fry in the butter, well covered. Then put in fresh piece of butter, season with 
salt and pepper; pour over cream (or thickened milk). Let boil up once and 
serve. 

Whole Wheat Muffins. 

Two cups milk, teaspoon salt, teaspoon sugar, one tablespoon melted butter, 
one egg, well beaten, two teaspoons baking powder ; Avhole wheat flour enough 
to make soft batter. Bake in muffin pans about twenty minutes. 

£scalloped Potatoes. 

Peel and slice raw potatoes thin; put layer of potatoes in baking dish, 
sprinkle with salt, pepper, flour and small bits of butter. Cover with milk. 
Add alternate layers until dish is filled. There should be enough milk to 
cover the potatoes. Bake in moderate oven. 

Apricot Snow Sails. 

One pint hot cooked rice, one beaten egg, one tablespoon butter; mix 
thoroughly. Wet little pudding cloths in cold water. Spread rice mixture one- 
third inch thick about five inches in diameter. In the center place apricots 
(canned or raw fruit) ; gather edges of cloth together and tie. Steam ten min- 
utes if canned fruit is used, thirty minutes if raw. Serve with finiit sauce. 

Fried ChicRen. 

Roll pieces of chicken in flour, sprinkle freely with salt and pepper, and 
fry, using half butter and half lard. Brown, then fill the skillet with hot 
water, cover tight and place in the oven, and leave from one to two hours, 
according to the age of the chicken. Make gravy of the remaining liquid. 

Prune Whip. 

Whites of four eggs, one cup chopped stewed prunes; sweeten to taste. 
Beat whites to stiff froth, beat in the chopped prunes and sugar. Bake in 
moderately hot oven till brown on top. Ser\^e with whipped cream. 



18 



Spring 



Cook Book 



MENU. 

Miss Louise Gilmore. 
BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

English Breakfast Bacon. 

Omelette. Toast. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Creamed Salmon. 
French Fried Potatoes. Asparagus. 

Celery. Bread and Butter. 

Strawberries and Cake. 

DINNER. 

Lobster Bisque. Bread Crumbs. 

Veal Croquettes. Creamed Potatoes. 

Peas. Olive? Wine Jelly. 

Nut Salad. Wafers. 

Frozen Pudding. Cake. 

Coffee. 



19 



Spring 

Proteus Club 



RECEIPTS. 

Creamed Salmon. 

Half pint cream, one tablespoon flour, mix flour with milk, stir until 
tmooth, add small can salmon picked to pieces. Cover with brown bread crumba. 
This makes enough for six ramequins. 

Lobster Bisque. 

One can lobster, two cups milk, three pints boiling water, one tablespoon 
butter, one-half cup fine cracker crumbs, salt and pepper to taste. Chop lobstsr 
rather coarse, taking care not to tear it. Put boiling water, salt, pepper and 
lobster into saucepan, and cook gently forty minutes. Have ready scalding milk 
in which the crumbs have soaked twenty minutes. Stir in butter, then milk and 
crumbs. Set in hot water five minutes and serve. 

Veal Croquettes. 

One pint of meat, one-half pint milk or cream, one large tablespoon 
of butter, two large tablespoons of flour, one teaspoon, salt, one-half 
teaspoon nutmeg, one tablespoon chopped parsley, cream butter and flour ; stir in 
milk until thick. Add other ingredients to meat, pour on dressing and mix. 
Set away to cool, then form, roll in egg and bread crumbs. Fry in hot lard. 

Nut Salad. 

One teacup vinegar, one teaspoon mustard, one teaspoon sialt, one-half cup 
butter, one-fourth cup sugar, six eggs (or yolks of ten) ; mix eggs, butter, sugar 
and mustard. Then stir in the vinegar until it boils and thickens. When cool 
add a cup of thick sour or sweet cream. Blanche almonds and cut in small 
pieces. Chop celery fine. Serve on lettuce leaves with above dressing over it. 

Wine Jelly. 

Soak a package of Plymouth Rock gelatine in one pint of cold water thirty 
minutes. Add one and a half pints of hot water. Stir until gelatine dis- 
solves, then add one-half pint of wine, one and a half cups sugar. Stir until 
sugar dissolves. Keep on ice to harden. If more wine is desired use less hot 

water. 

Frozen Pudding. 

One pint milk, one and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup flour, two egg^, 
two tablespoons gelatine, one quart cream, one pound candied fruit, four table- 
spoons wine. Let milk come to a boil, beat eggs, flour, and one cup of sugar 
together and stir into boiling milk. Cook twenty minutes. Add the gelatine, 
"which has been soaking one or two hours in cold water. Set away to cooL 
When cold add wine, cream and balance of susrar. "Freeze for ten minutes, 
then add fruit. "When froeen take out dasher and pack. 

20 



Summer 



Cook Book 



MENU. 



Miss Heu:ne Nelbow. 
BREAKFAST. 

Strawberries. 

Breakfast Graham, with Dates. 

Lamh Chops. Water-cress. 

Gems. Potato Scones. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Escalloped Eggs. French Fried Potatoes. 

Lettuce Sandwiches. 

Tomato Salad. Wafers. 

Baked Pears. Fruit Cookies. 

Iced Tea. 

DINNER. 

Green Pea Soup. 

Toasted Round Wafers. Radishes. 

Baked Trout— Egg Sauce. Sliced Cucumbers. 

Baked Chicken. Cream Gravy. 

Mashed Potatoes. Roasting Ears. 

Asparagus Salad. Wafers, 

Peach Sherbet. Sponge Cake. 

Coffee. 



21 



Summer 

Proteus Club. 



RILCEIPTS. 

Breakfast Graham -with Dates. 

Mix chopped dates with mush made of graham breakfast flour, and serve 
with cream. 

Gems. 

Two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons sugar, two cups flour, two tea- 
spoons baking powder, two eggs, one-half teaspoon salt, one cup milk; cream 
butter and sugar in warm bowl. Beat eggs and salt with Dover egg beater to 
cream. Over creamed butter and sugar sift flour and baking powder; over 
flour pour eggs and milk. Blend quickly, not necessary to have smooth. Pour 
into deep muffin tins and bake in quick oven. 

Potato Scones. 

One and one-half cups flour, one egg, one-third cup butter, one cup mashed 
potatoes, two teaspoons baking powder, one-half teaspoon salt, milk to mix. 

To the sifted flour, salt and baking, powder add potato and butter. Make 
soft dough with egg and milk. Divide into three portions, roll into rounds one- 
half indh thick, cut each into four and bake in quick oven or on a griddle. 
Then split, butter, and serve hot. 

Escalloped Eggs. 

Slice hard boiled eggs into buttered ramequins. Over this pour whita 
sauce and grate a little cheese on top. Bake in quick oven until brown. 

French Fried Potatoes. 

Cut potatoes lengthwise, into pieces one-half inch in diameter. Stand in 
ice water one hour. Dry thoroughly and drop into boiling lard. Drain, salli 
and serve very hot. 

Baked Pears. 

Pare, halve and core the pears; fill hollow with jelly or jam. Pin halves 
together with tooth picks. Bake and serve with cream. 

Fruit Cookies. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, two eggs, one-fourth cup sour milk, one 
teaspoon soda, two cups chopped raisins, one teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon cin- 
namon, flour to roll soft. 

22 



Summer 

Cook Book. 

Green Pea Soup. 

Oook one can peas or same amount fresh peaa with one pint milk in 
double boiler until tender. Simmer one tablespoon butter with one onion. Take 
out the onion, add the buttter and one tablespoon flour to the peas. When it 
comes to a boil, add one pint chicken stock ; strain. Just before serving add one- 
half pint whipped cream, salt and pepper. 

Asparagus Salad. 

Cook asparagus tips until tender. Serve on lettuce leaf with Mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Peach Sherbet (v^ithout freezing). 

In a pint of water boil one-half cup Minute Tapioca, and one cup sugar, 
until clear. Use double boiler and stir often. Add the juice of one lemon and a 
pint of sliced peaches six minutes before taking from fire. Put in cool place. 
When beginning to harden stir in quickly the well beaten whites of two eggs. 

Sponge Cake. 

One and a half cups sugar, four eggs (beaten separately), two cups flour, 
three tablespoon^ cold water, juice of one lemon, two teaspoons baking powder. 
Add the baking powder sifted into one-half cup of flour the last thing. 



23 



Summer 



Proteus Club 



MENU. 

Miss Mabt Kavffman. 

BREAKFAST. 

Muskmelon. 

Oat Meal. Cream and Sugar. 

Omelette. 

Rolls. Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Cold Veal Loaf, Sliced. 

Creamed Potatoes. Sliced Cucumbers. 

Hot Biscuit. Iced Tea. 

Strawberries, with Orange Juice. 

DINNER. 

Crown of Lamb Roast. Feathered Potatoes. 

Green Peas, Asparagus, Drawn Butter Sauce. 

Tomato Salad. 

Olives and Red Radishes, with Cracked Ice. 

Frozen Fruit Custard. Angel's Food. 

Coffee. 



?A 



o u m m e r 

Cook Book. 

RECEIPTS. 

KoUs. 

To enough bread dough for twelve persons add the white of one egg, well 
beaten, two tablespoons white sugar, two tablespoons butter; work these thor- 
oughly together. Roll out about half inch thick, out the size desired, spread 
one with melted butter and lay another on top of it. When light bake a golden 
brown. 

Veal Loaf. 

Three pounds veal, two thick slices pork, two eggs, two Boston crackers, 
rolled, three teaspoons each of salt and pepper. Grind meat fine, mix all ingre- 
dients together and make into loaf; dredge with flour. Bake from two and a 
half to three hours. Baste often. 

Strawberries arnd Orange Juice. 

Place in a dish alternate layers of strawberries and pulvarized sugar. 
Pour over them orange juice in proportion of three oanges to a quart of straw 
berries. Lei stand for an hour. Before serving sprinkle with cracked ice. 

Cro'wn of Lamb Roaat. 

Serve the crown of lamb with potatoes placed inside and peas on the platter 
outside of the meat. 

Feathered Potatoes. 

Have potatoes mashed, well seasoned and put through a strainer. 

Tomato Salad. 

Take skin, juice and seeds from tomatoes ; chop what remains with celery 
and add Mayonnaise dressing. Sei've on lettuce leaf. 

Frozen Fruit Custard. 

One pint rich milk, one pint cream, (whipped), yolkes of three eggs, one 
and one half cups sugar, one pint fresh peaches, cut in pieces; beat eggs and 
sugar well together. Heat milk almost to boiling point, add it gradually to 
eggs and sugar. Cook in double boiler, stirring all the time till it has slightly 
thickened. When custard is partly frozen, having stirred it, add whipped 
cream ; stir few minutes longer, then stir in fruit. Put all in mould and place 
in fresh relay of ice anH salt. 

r'5 



Summer 

Proteus Club 



ME.NU. 
Miss Adelia Clapp White. 

BREAKFAST. 

Iced Cantaloupe. 

Wheat-0, with Sliced Bananas. 

Baked Eggs. Cream Toast. 

French Fried Potatoes. Radishes. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Fruit Macedoine. 

Salmon Souffle, Potatoes au Gratln. 

French Rolls. Sliced Tomatoes. 

Snow Pudding. 

Chocolate. 

DINNER. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

Chicken Croquettes. Green Peas. 

Creamed Potatoes. 

Apple and Celery Salad. Olives. 

Pineapple Ice. Macaroons. 

Coffee. Water Crackers. 



26 



Summer 

Co ok Book. 

RECEIPTS. 

Baked Eggs. 

Put eggs in gem pans. Over each one pour a little cream ; add pepper, 
salt and butter, and bake in hot oven. 

Fruit Macedoine. 

Four oranges, half pound Malaga grapes, three bananas, one grape-fruit, 
half cam imported brandied cherries, half can Weisbaden strawberries (or 
fresh stravs^berries), half cup orange juice, one-fourth cup sherry, two table- 
spoons Maraschino, two tablespoons rum, four tablespoons powdered sugar. 
Mix the liquids with the powdered sugar and pour over the fruit. Serve in 
sherbet glasses. 

Salmon Souffle. 

One can salmon picked apart, salt and pepper tO' taste. Dressing — One pint 
of milk, three eggs, two tablespoons of flour, butter size of an egg, pinch of salt, 
cream, butter and flour. Scald milk in double boiler, then add eggs beaten very 
light, then the butter and flour. Put salmon, in baking dish and pour the dress- 
ing over it^ and bake twenty minutes. 

Snow Pudding. 

Soak one-half box gelatine in one cup water fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Stir one cup sugar and juice of one lemon. When partly stiffened, put in the 
well beaten whites of three eggs. Place on ice until hard and serve with 
whipped cream. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Two cups chicken, cooked and chopped, three teaspoons butter, three tea- 
spoons flour, one cup stock, three tablespoons lemon juice, one cup cream, two 
cups bread crumbs, two teaspoons salt. 

To the stofck add the butter" and flour (creamed), and beat until it 
thickens ; add chicken, salt, lemon and a little pepper, bread crumbs and beaten 
eggs. Add the cream after taking from fire. Drop in hot lard, fry to a rich 
brown. 



27 



Summer 

Proteus Club 

MENU. 



Miss Cabbie Habbach. 

BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Cracked Wheat Broiled Mackerel. 

Potatoes Hashed in Cream. Pop-oreni. 
Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Fried Tomatoes with Cream Sauce. 

Thin Slices Veal Loaf. Potato Chipa. 

Brown Bread and Butter. 

Sliced Peaches. Spanish Buns. 

Iced Tea. 



DINNER. 

Cantaloupe. 

Split Pea Soup. 

Olives. Celery. 

Broiled Chicken. Creamed New Potatoes. 

Asparagus on Toast. 

Cucumber Salad. 

Fruit Salad with Wine Sauce. Cheese and Crackers. 

Coffee. 



28 



Summer 

Co ok Book . 

RELCEIPTS. 

Pop-overa. 

One cup flour, one cup milk, one teaspoon salt, one egg. Sift salt with 
flour. Add part of milk slowlj to make smooth paste. Add rest of milk with 
beaten egg. Beat for fifteen minutes before an open window. Have gem 
pana hissing hot, grease thoroughly and pour in the mixture. Bake in a quick 
oven twenty to thirty minutes, imtil puffs are brown and well popped over. 

Fried Tomatoes, 

Cut six large, firm tomatoes into halves without peeling, lay them in a 
pan, akin side down, with a large tablespoon of melted butter. Fry very slowly 
until quite tender. Place carefully in a dish. Let butter brown a little and 
stir into it a tablespoon of flour. When light brown add half pint of milk. 
Boil three minutes, stirring all the time; salt and pepper and pour over 
tomatoes. 

Spanish Buns. 

One and a half cups of sugar, four eggs (whole), one scant cup butter, 
one cup milk, one heaping teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon cloves, one- 
half teaspoon allspice, a little nutmeg, two teaspoons baking powder, one tea- 
spoon vanilla, two to two and a half cups of flour. Cream the butter and sugar, 
add the beaten eggs and milk, then the flour and baking powder. After mixing 
add the spices. If desired, more spices or raisins or currants may be added just 
before putting in pans. Pour into gem pans and bake in hot oven. Ice when 
oold. 

Icing. 

Boil one cup sugar and four tablespoons water till it threads. Beat in the 
beaten white of egg gradually. 



29 



Summer 

Proteus Club 



MENU. 

Miss Bektha Clabkson. 

BREAKFAST. 

Cherries. 

Cereal. Cream. 

Mock Fried Oysters, Tomato Sauce. Radishes. 

Irish Pancakes, with Powdered Sugar. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Rice Soup. 

Toasted Butter Wafers. Pickles. 

Cold Tongue. Sweet-breads and Cucumber Salad. 

Pirn Olas. Sandwiches. 

Fruit Sponge Cake. "Whipped Cream. 

Russian Tea. 

DINNER. 

Clear Vegetable Soup. 

Beef Tenderloin Roll. Browned Potatoes. 

Lima Beans, Creamed. Summer Squash. 

Beet Salad. Cheese Wafers. 

Raspberry Cream. Maryland Biscuit. 

Coffee. 



30 



Summer 

Cook Book. 

RE.CEIPTS. 



Mock Fried Oysters. 

Slice six liard boiled eggs. Dip the slices in one egg beaten with on© 
tablespoon water and seasoned with salt and pepper, then roll in shredded 
wheat biscuit crumbs. Fry in hot lard, a golden brown. Tomato sauce, one 
cup strained tomatoes, half teaspoon scraped onions, one tablespoon flour, one 
tablespoon butter. Boil the tomatoes with an onion, turn into the blended 
flour and butter. Cook two minutes, or until thickened. 

Irish Pancakes. 

Two cups flour, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon salt, one tablespoon 
sugar, three-quarters teaspoon nutmeg, sifted together. Mix to a medium 
batter with two cups or more of sour milk. Add the two eggs beaten separately 
and bake in large cakes on a very hot griddle. Spread with butter, powdered 
sugar, and roll. 

Sweet^'bread and Cucumber Salad. 

Boil sweetbreads until tender, cut fine and mix with one-third the amount 
of cucumber ; cover with salad dressing. 

Pim Olas Sandwiches. 

Two tablespoons thick Mayonnaise, two tablespoons fine cracker crumbs, 
one dozen large stuffed olives chopped fine. Mix all together well and spread 
on buttered bread. 

Fruit Sponge Cake. 

Bake sponge cake in two or three pans. In putting the cakes together 
use any fresh fruit as filling. On top spread a thick layer of whipped cream. 

Raspberry Crean^ in Cups. 

Dissolve two tablespoons gelatine in enough warm water to cover it. Mix 
with one pint plain cream, add one box raspberries, which have been put 
through sieve, two-thirds cup sugar. Let cool, but not harden, and beat in one 
pint whipped cream. Serve in cups. 

31 



Summer 

Proteas Club 



Marylaoid Biscuit. 

One quart flour, one-fourtk cup lard, one-half teaspoon, iialt, one cup cold 
water. Eub lard and salt in the flour and mix -vrith water to a very stiff dough. 
Knead ten minutes or until well mixed, then beat hard with biscuit-beater or 
heavy rolling-pin, turning the mass over and over until it begins to blister and 
look light and puffy — until pulling off a piece quickly, it gives a sharp, snap- 
ping sound. When in this condition, pull off a small piece suddenly, pound 
into a round biscuit, then pinch off a bit of the top. Turn over and press with 
thumb, leaving a hollow in the center. Place biscuits some distance apart in 
the pan, prick with a fork. Bake twenty minutes in quick oven. They should 
be light, with fine even grain and crack at the edges like crackers. 



32 



Autumn 

Cook Book. 

MENU. 

Miss Alice Wiixiams. 

BREAKFAST. 

California Grapes. 

Oatmeal and Cream. 

Mackerel, with Cream Dressing. Boiled Potatoes. 

Hot Baking Powder Biscuit. 

Waffles, with Maple Syrup. Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Duchess Soup. 

Quail, Spanish Style. Orange Salad. 

Fried Potato Balls. 

Toasted Crackers. Neuchatel Cheese. 

Maraschino Jelly. Whipped Cream. 

Chocolate. 

DINNER. 

Little Neck Clams on Half Shell. 

Consomme. 

Baked Red Snapper, Egg Sauce. Mashed Potatoes. 

Olives. Radishes. Celery. Salted Almonds. 

Stewed Squabs. Asparagus Tips. 

Champagne Ice. 

Roast Venison, Damson Sauce. Green Peas in Turnip Cups. 

Water-cress Salad. Cheese Crackers. 

Cabinet Pudding, Brandy Sauce. 

Apricot Ice. Macaroons. 

Coffee. 



33 



Autumn 

Proteus Club 



RECEIPTS. 

Salt Mackerel 'with Cream. 

Place mackerel in skillet with the skin side up, cover with 
cold water, and when the water comes to the boiling point, pour 
it off and add more cold water. When the water has for the third time reached 
the boiiin;; poiri^. Uraw ihe skillet to the side of the range and allow the water 
to simmer till the fish is done. Drain mackerel, roll in flour, and fiy to a 
light brown in hot butter. Kemove the fish to a hot platter and pour small 
cup of cream in the skillet — when hot, pour it over the fish and serve at once. 

Duchess Soup. 

Two quarts sweet milk, three medium sized onions, one large spoon of 
butter, one large spoon flour, yolks of four eggs, four tablespoons grated cheese, 
salt and white pepper. Cut the onions in thin slices and fry in the butter till 
a deep yejllow, add the flour and fry a few minutes till flour seems cooked. 
Have milk boiling in a stew pan, stir in the flour and onion mixture. Stir the 
milk constantly and cook till soup thickens and has no taste of flour. Season 
to taste with salt and white pepper. Remove from the fire and add beaten 
yolks of four eggs. In a hot tureen put the grated cheese and strain the soup 
over it. Serve at once. 

Quail, Spanish Style. 

Roll six quails in flour which is well seasoned with salt and white pepper. 
Fry the birds in butter and lard — ^half and half — ^till nicely browned. Tate 
six thick slices from large, firm tomatoes, slice three large onions and a large 
green pepper and fry these in a little butter ; add to mixture three tablespoons 
of grated cheese and salt and pepper to taste. Lay the quails on a hot platter, 
pour sauce over them and serve very hot. 

Orange Salad. 

Separate seedless oranges into sections, carefully removing the thin skin 
from each section ; cut each section in several pieces. To the oranges add three- 
fourths as much of English walnut meats ; add mayonnaise dressing. SerA' e 
the salad with roast duck or other game. 

Stewed Squabs. 

Fry six squabs in two tablespoons of very hot butter. When they are 
brown, dredge with tablespoon of flour and stir them abouti till the flour is 
brown, then cover with boiling water, season to taste with salt and pepper, and 
simmer in a closely covered stew pan till the squabs are tender. 

34 



Autumn 



Cook Book 



Champagne Ice. 

freeze one quart of very strong, sweet lemonade till half frozen. Then 
quickly open a quart bottle of champagne and at once pour contents into the 
freezer. Close the freezer immediately and freeze the ice. Keep the freezer 
closed and well packed with ice until the champagne ice is served. 

Roast Venison. 

Mix half a teaspoonful of ground cloves with a teacup of soft butter. Rub 

the butter over the venison and place in cool place till butter hardens. Then 

cover the venison with a thick paste of flour and water. Place in 

dripping pan, pour a cup of water in the pan, and cover the meat with a heavj^ 

paper. Have a hot oven and baste every fifteen minutes with butter and water. 

Forty-five minutes before serving, remove the layer of paste, sprinkle the venison 

with flour and baste with butter until broAvn. Place the meat on hot plattei. 

In the ipan make a gravy with one pint water thickened with a little flour*, 

seasoned with a pinch of cloves, a dust of cayenne and few pieces of mace. 

Strain this into a hot gravy boat. Serve currant jelly or damson sauce with 

the roast. 

Cabinet Pudding. 

Spread a thick coating of soft butter over the inside of a plain, two-quart 
tin pudding mould. Have ready a stale sponge cake and half a pound of as- 
sorted candied fruits, and the same amount of candied cherries, also of citron. 
Out the citron into leaves and stems and part of the fruit into flower shapes. 
With the flowers and leaves make wreaths or other designs on the sides and 
bottom of the mould. Then put the mould in a cool place till the butter hard- 
ens enough to hold designs, C'ut the cake in thin slices and line the mould 
with it. Pill the mould to within half an inch of the top with alternate layers 
of cake and small pieces of the fruit. Mix six eggs with six tablespoons of 
sugar and six cups of milk, flavor the custard with brandy and slowly strain 
it into the mould over the cake and fruit. Cover closely and steam for two 
hours, or until the custard will not adhere to a knife. Turn the pudding on a 
round platter and serve with brandy sauce. 

Maraschino Jelly. 

Soak a box of gelatine in one pint of cold water for an hour ; add one pint 
of boiling water, one pint of sugar, and the juice of two lemons, stirring until 
dissolved. Then add one quart of Maraschino and strain through a napkin 
into a mould dipped in cold water; set in refrigerator to harden. Turn the 
jelly on a flat dish and surround with whipped cream sweetened, and flavored 
with wine. 

35 



Autumn 

Proteus Club 



MENU. 

Mrs. George Raymond Habbach. 

BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 
Cereal with Cream. 
Broiled Bacon. Eggs. Fried Potatoes. 

Hot Rolls. Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Grape-fruit. 

Lobster Salad. Saratoga Potatoes. 

Delmonico Tomatoes. 

Olives. Bordeaux Pickles. Radishes. 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches. 

Spanish Buns. Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Bouillon. Bread Sticks. 

Planked Shad. Creamed Potatoes. 

Brown Bread and Butter Sandwiches. 

Pineapple Ice. 

Roast Prairie Chicken, with Dressing. Escalloped Sweet Potatoes. 

Peas. Currant Jelley. Pickles.* 

Orange Fritters. Cucumber Salad. 

Woodford Pudding. 

Nuts. Coffee. 



36 



A u t u tn n 

Cook Book. 

RECEIPTS. 

Fried Potatoes. 

Wash, peel and slice the potatoes into cold water, drain in a colander and 
drop in a skillet, prepared with two tablespoons melted butter or beef drippingb, 
or one-half of each. Keep closely covered for ten minutes, only removing to stii- 
with a knife, from the bottom, to prevent burning. Cook another ten minutes, 
stirrmg frequently imtil done and lightly browned. 

Long Breakfast R.olls. 

Three and one-half cups sweet milk, one cup butter and lard mixed in 
equal proportions, one cup potato yeast, flour enough to make into dough. Let 
rise over night — in the morning add one beaten egg. Knead thoroughly and 
let rise again — with the hands make into balls as large as a small hen's egg — 
tben roll between the hands to make long rolls, (about three inches) place 
close together in even rows in the pans. Left rise until light, and bake delicately. 

Grape=fruit. 

Servo grape-fruit cut in halves. With a sharp knife cut the pulp slightly 
away from the skin. Garnish with Maraschimo cherries and flavor with the 
liquor. 

Lobster Salad. 

Crumble lobster (one can) into small pieces, add two small stalks of celery 
and two or three hard boiled eggs chopped fine. Mix all together with Mayon- 
naise dressing. Place salad in loaf shape on lettuce leaves in flat dish. Garnish 
with rings of hard boiled eggs, lobster claws and a few sprigs of parsley. 

Saratoga Potatoes. 

Peel potatoes and slice them thin on a slicer. Let stand for several hours 
in oold water. Drain well and dry on a towel. Fry few at a time in boiling 
lard until crisp. Take out, drain on a cloth and salt. 

Deltnonico Tomatoes. 

Pare tomatoes and cut out center — fill the opening with grated bread 
crumbs, seasoned with butter, salt and pepper, a little onion if desired. Bako. 

37 



Autumn 

Proteus Club 



Bordeaux Pickles. 

One gallon of chopped green tomatoes, one large head of cabbage chopped, 
one dozen onions chopped. Mix the above with one-half pint of salt and let 
etand one hour. Add one-half ounce each of turmeric, celery seed and whole 
peppers, four chopped green peppers, one-half pound each of brown sugar and 
white mustard seed, one gallon of good vinegar. Cook one hour. 

Dressing for Prairie Chicken or Any Game. 

Put in spider lump of butter size of an egg, with one small finely chopped 
onion. When this becomes a light brown, stir in three pork chops, chopped fine, 
and cook thoroughly. Then add one cup chopped apple, one cup seeded raisins, 
one cup blanched almonds cut lengthwise. Cook altogether, stirring constantly 
for about five minutes. Then take one loaf fresh Vienna bread, cut in thick 
slices, dampen in cold water. Pull lightly apart (not using crust), add to the 
rest of the ingredients, stirring gently. Season with a little nutmeg, pepper 
and salt. Lastly add an egg beaten, and two large tablespoons of milk, or 
enough to make proper consistency for dressing. 

Orange Fritters. 

Peel four oranges, removing all pith without breaking the pulp. Divide 
each into four or five pieces, dip each in batter, and fry a deep yellow. Serve 
with powdered sugar (on napkin). 

Pineapple Ice. 

One can grated or one pint fresh fruit, one pint sugar, one pint water, and 
one tablespoon good gelatine. Freeze. 

Woodford Pudding. 

Three eggs, one teacup sugar, one-half teacup butter, one teacup jam or 
preserves, one teaspoon soda, dissolved in three teaspoons sour milk. Cinnamon 
and nutmeg to taste. Mix all well together and bake slowly in pudding pan. 

Sauce. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one egg. Cream, butter and 
•ugar and add beaten egg. Let all warm thoroughly, but not boil. 

38 



Autumn 

Cook Book. 

MENU. 

Miss Deixa Mabquardt. 

BREAKFAST. 

Baked Apples. Cream. 

Granose. 

Egg Omelette. Bacon. 

Muffins. Coffee. 

Griddle Cakes. 

LUNCHEON. 

Cream of Celery Soup. Cheese Sticks. 

Broiled Fish Balls, with Lemon. 

Chicken Croquettes. Peas. 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches. 

Coffee Jelly. Whipped Cream. 

Chocolate. 

DINNER. 

Oyster Cocktail. Olives. 

Bouillon. Wafers. 

Planked White Fish. Macaroni with Cheese. 

Brown Bread. 

Broiled Quail on Toast. Cream Potatoes. 

Nut Salad. Celery. Green Grapes. 

Cream Cheese. Wafers. 

Ice Cream. Cake. 

Coffee. 



39 



Autumn 

Proteus Club 



RECEIPTS. 

Muffins. 

One pint milk, one ounce butter, one teaspoon salt, three oupe flour, 
two heaping teaspoons baking powder or one-half teasjxx)n soda, and odue 
of cream tartar. Beat the eggs separately until light — add the yolks to the 
milk, then the flour. The batter must be thin enough to pour from the spoon ; add 
melted butter and salt. Give the whole a vigorous beating ; add baking powder 
and well beaten whites ; stir until thoroughly mixed and bake in quick oven. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

One four-pound chicken, one pair sweet-breads, one small onion, four 
whole cloves, one bay leaf, one sprig parsley. Cook chicken, in 
boiling water, add onion, bay leaf, cloves and parsley. Cover and let sim- 
mer gently until meat is tender, then drain and chop fine, and mix with this 
the sweetbreads — which have been parboiled — ^to every pint of this meat, al- 
low one-half pint cream, one large tablespoon butter, two of flour, one of 
chopped parsley, one teaspoon onion juice, one of salt, one-quarter tea- 
epoon nutmeg, cayenne and pepper to taste. Put milk on to boil, rub but- 
ter and flour to a smooth paste, stir into the boiling cream until very thick. 
Take from fire, add the meat and beat until thoroughly mixed. Add season- 
ings, then turn out on platter to cool. Wlien cold, form into moulds. Dip 
first into egg, then, bread crumbs, and fry in boiling oil or fat. Serve at once 
with small sprig of parsley in the top of each croquette. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

Three stalks of celery, one quart of milk, one tablespoon buttea*, two table- 
spoons flonr, one pint water, salt and pepper tO' taste, a piece of onion the size 
of a quarter. Wash celery, cut into small pieces. Cover with water and boil 
thirty minutes, then press through a colander. Boil milk in double boiler, add 
the water and celery, and onion. E-ub butter and flour together and stir into 
boiling soup, stirring constantly until it thickens. Add salt and pepper. 

Broiled Quail. 

Split the birds down- the back, lard the breasts, dust the birds with salt and 
pepper, place on a broiler over a moderate fire three-quai'ters of an hour, turning 
frequently. Place on squares of hot butteired toast, baste with melted butt-er and 
serve with currant iellv- 

40 



Autumn 

Cook Book. 

MILNU. 

Mrs. Posteb Dabwin Inqaixs. 

BREAKFAST. 

French Prunes. 

Cracked Wheat. Cream. 

Broiled Oysters on Toast with Bacon. 

Lettuce. Baked Apples. 

Muffins. 

Sugared Doughnuts. Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Bouillon. 

Radishes. Toasted Graham Wafers. 

Creamed Sweetbreads in Ramequins. 

Egg Sandwiches. Broiled English Mutton Chops. 

Peas. Potato Croquettes. Tomato Salad. 

Round Wafers. Cottage Cheese. 

Moulded Fruit Pudding. 

DINNER. 



Blue Points in Cream. 

Celery. Bread Sticka. 

Baked Fresh Salmon with Lemon Sauce. 

Sliced Cucumbers. French Dressing. 

Roast Wild Goose. Potato Dressing. Gravy. 

Escalloped Sweet Potatoes. Turnip Cups. 

Grape Jelly. Salted Pecans, 

Orange Salad in Orange Cases. Thin Wafers. 

Individual Apple Pies, with Whipped Cream. 

Biscuit Glace. Coffee. 

41 



Autumn 

Prot ems Club 



RECEIPTS. 

Broiled Oysters. 

Select very large oysters, place on squares of thin buttered toast, gprinklo 
with pepper and salt and put a very thin slice of bacon on top. Place on gas 
broiler and cook quickly. 

Doughnuts. 

Two eggs, one small tablespoon butter, one cup sugar, one cup milk, flour, 
two teaspoons baking powder and a little nutmeg. Mix butter and sugar, then 
the whole eggs; add milk, sprinkle with nutmeg, then a little flour with the 
baking powder and enough flour altogether to roll and cut Drop in hot lard. 

Creamed Sv%reet=breads. 

Cut boiled sweetbreads in small pieces, place in ramequins, sprinkle with 
salt and a little tobasco sauce and cover with cream sauce and fine bread 

crumbs. 

E,gg Sand'wiches. 

Boil eggs hard, chop; sprinkle with salt and pepper and mix with salad 
dressing. Spread on a crisp lettuce leaf and place between thin slices of white 
bread. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Mash boiled potatoes and season with one tablespoon butter, one-half cup 
of hot milk, two tablespoons rich cream, the beaten whites of two eggs, salt and 
pepper. Work into shape, roll in fine bread cinimbs and fry in hot lard, using 
a wire basket. 

Tomato Salad. 

Use whole tomatoes, cutting out a little from the top and filling with wal- 
nuts and celery, chopped very fine. Cover with Mayonnaise and serve on let* 
tuce with a spoonful of cottage cheese. 

Moulded Fruit Pudding. 

One-half box gelatine dissolved in one'half cup hot water, one cup sugar, 
one-half pint plain cream, one pint of whipped cream, one-half wine glass 
sherry, one-half wine glass brandy and fruit. Line a mould with thin slices of 
angel food, fill half or two-thirds full of candied cherries, pineapple, blanched 
almonds, marsh mallows and a few Maraschino cherries. Mix gelatine, sherry, 
and brandy together, add sugar, then plain cream, and the whipped cream last. 
Pour this over the fruit, cover the top with angel food and let harden. 

42 



Autumn 

Cook Book, 

Blue Points in Cream. 

Select very small oysters or Blue Points. Put one quart cream in double 
boiler, thicken a very little and when it reaches boiling point, add oysters, a 
small piece of butter and pepper and salt. Serve in bouillon cups. 

Koast Wild Goose. 

If young do not parboil. Fill with potato dressing and roast same as 
turkey. 

Potato Dressing. 

Mash boiled potatoes ; crumb bread and moisten with hot water. Use one- 
third potatoes to two-thirds bread, pepper and salt to taste, and one-half tea- 
spoon sage. Have in skillet some melted butter v/ith one onion cut fine. Cook 
a few minutes, then add potatoes, bread and seasoning. Mix thoroughly and 
cook five minutes, when it is ready to put in goose. 

Escalloped S'weet Potatoes. 

Cut in halves boiled or baked potatoes lengthwise. Put a layer of potatoes in 
baking dish, sprinkle with pepper and salt, one tablespoon sugar and cover with 
thin cream sauce, then another layer of potatoes. Fill dish this way, then pour 
one cup rich cream over all and bake. 

Orange Salad. 

Cut oranges crosswise and take out the inside. Fill with orange cut in 
small pieces and cover with a Mayonnaise, which is half whipped croam. 

Individual Apple Pies. 

These are made with one crust and baked in the individual tins and served 
with whipped cream. Have the apple filling very rich. 

Biscuit Glace. 

One pint whipped cream, yolks of six eggs beaten very light, and one-half 
cup powdered sugar. Beat all together lightly and flavor with one teaspoon 
vanilla. Pack and freeze without stirring. Serve with German preserved straw- 
berries and plain whipped cream. 



43 



Autumn 

Proteus Club 



MENU. 

Mrs. Hollis Rawson. 

BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Cold Rice. Cream and Sugar. 

Creamed Oysters. Brown Potatoes. 

Toast. Coffee. 

Waffles. 

LUNCHEON. 

Steamed Salmon. French Fried Potatoes. 

Baking Powder Biscuit. 

Asparagus Salad — Mayonnaise. Wafers. 

Prune Whip, with Whipped Cream and Cake, 

DINNER. 

Tomato Soup. 

Roast Duck. Mashed Potatoes. Baked Celery. 

Stuffed Green Peppers. Currant Jelly. 

Lettuce and Chicory Salad. 
Cheese Balls. Wafers. 

Fig Pudding — Hard Sauce. 
Coffee. 



44 



A u t u m n 

Cook Book. 

re:ceipts. 

Creamed Oysters. 

Two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons flour, one pint milk, one pint 
oysters, two eggs. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, then the milk ; when thick 
enough add the eggs, beaten light, then the oysters. Heat till edges of oysters 
curl, then serve. 

Waffles. 

One pint flour, one teaspoon salt, one quart sour milk, two tablespoons 
butter, five beaten eggs; saleratus enough to sweeten the milk. Bake in waf- 
fle irons. 

Steamed Salmon. 

One can salmon, four eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately ; four tabl^ 
spoons melted butter, half cup bread crumbs, a little parsley, dash of salt ; steam 
one hour. Sauce: Make a cream sauce of a little flour, one egg, juice of the 
salmon; just before serving add drop of lemon. 

Tomato Soup. 

Put into a stewpan one quart of tomatoes and one pint of cold water. In 
a frying pan put one tablespoon of buttetr ; when brown add one large onion cut 
fine; when the onion is colored, stir in one tablespoon flour. Add this to the toma- 
toes with one tablespoon sugar, one teaspoon salt, one salt-spoon pepper. Let 
boil slowly half an hour, strain and serva 

Baked Celery. 

Cut the celery fine and place on the stove with a little water. When done, 
drain off the water and make a cream, sauce of butter, flour and milk. Place 
the celery in a baking dish, pour the sauce over it, sprinkle cracker crumbs on 
top and bake fifteen minutes. 

Stuffed Green Peppers. 

Take the inside out of the peppers and soak them for several hours In cold 
water. Make a stuffing of bread crumbs, a little tomato, celery and salt and 
stuff the peppers and bake until they can be pierced readily. 

Fig Pudding. 

One cup seeded raisins, one cup chopped figs, one cup, chopped suet, ono 
cup sweet milk, two and a half cups flour, one and a half cups molasses, one 
level teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon each of cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg. Steam 
three hours and serve with hard sauce. 

49 



Winter 

Proteus Club 

MENU. 

Miss Elsie Macombeb. 

BREAKFAST. 

Cracked Wheat, with Cream. 

Lamb Cutlet, Capers, Tomato Sauce. 

Potato Croquettes. Hominy. Toast. 

Waflaies, with Maple Syrup. 

Grape-Fruit, with Rum. 

LUNCHEON. 

Bouillon. 
Wafers. Olives. 

Vol-au-vent of Oysters. Brown Bread and Butter. 

Breast of Chicken. Browned Potatoes. 

French Peas. Wine Jelly. 

Hot Biscuits. 

Lobster Salad — Mayonnaise. Wafers. Cheese Straws. 

Bavarian Cream. Pound Cake. 

Bonbons. Salted Almonds. 

Chocolate. 

DINNER. 

Amber Soup. 

Croutons. Olives. 

Boiled Salmon, Sauce Hollandaise. 

Boiled Potatoes. Cucumbers. Brown Bread and Butter. 

Tenderloin of Beef, Larded, Mushroom Sauce. 

Spiced Gooseberries. Mashed Potatoes. Lima Beans. 

Celery. Mangoes. 

Lettuce, French Dressing. 

Roquefort-Cheese. Wafers. 

Ice Cream, with Canton Ginger. 

Delicate and Fruit Cake. Raisins, Nuts. 

Black Coffee. 

46 



Winter 

Cook Book. 

RECEIPTS. 

Amber Soup. 

One small soup bone, six pounds juicy lean meat, one chicken, a slice of 
smoked ham (half the size of one's hand) ; make stock day before using. Cook 
vegetables in separate vessel. One large potato, one onion, one'eighth of small 
cabbage, one small carrot, six cloves, two bay leaves. Boil vegetables almost 
to pulp, strain liquor into stock, season with salt and pepper and serve. 

Boiled Salmon. 

Place fish on straiiner of large fish kettle, fill with cold water, well salted, 
and with tablespoon of vinegar in it, boil slowly (allowing quarter of an 
hour to each pound). Try with fork, when thoroughly done serve hot, garnish 
with parsley. 

Sauce HoUandaise. 

Mix in sauce pan over the fire one tablespoon of butter and one of flour, 
add gradually one and one^half cups of boiling water, stir into this the yolks 
of three eggs, one tablespoooi of lemon juice or vinegar, three tablespoons 
of olive oil. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Take the whites of two eggs well beaten, a tablespoon of butter, a pinch 
of salt and pepper, two cups of cold mashed potatoes. Mix all together 
thoroughly, then make into small balls, dip them into the yolks of the eggs, roll 
in flour and fry in butter. 

Tenderloin of Beef, Larded. 

Buy a piece (about four pounds) of tenderloin steak, take out the bones, 
lard over the top with small larding needle, and season with salt and pepper. 
Lijie a baking dish with some pork skin, one sliced onion, one sliced carrot and 
half a bunch of parsley roots. Place the tenderloin on top and roast in a brisk 
oven foT thirty-five minutes, basting it occasionally with its o^vn juice. Dish 
it up, skim fat off gravy, strain it over meat and pour half a pint of good 
Madeira sauce over it ; serve hot. 

Bavarian Cream. 

Boil one pint of rich milk with four tablespoons of sugar and add one-half 
box of gelatine. While this is cooling, whip one pint of cream very stiff. When 
mixture is nearly cold, stir in the whipped cream and pour into moulds. Flavor 
with sherry. 

47 



Winter 



Prot4U$ Club 



MENU. 

Mrs. Jesse F. Stevensoit. 

BREAKFAST. 

Grape-Fruit. 

Lamb Chops. French Fried Potatoes. 

Buckwheat Cakes. Maple Syrup. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Pigs in a Blanket. 

Cheese Omelette. Entire Wheat Bread. 

Spiced Currants. 

Chocolate. 

DINNER. 

Clear Soup. Croutons. 

Tenderloin Roll. Baked Potatoes. 

Corn Pudding. Pickled Onions. 

Tomato Aspic, with Mayonnaise. 

Wafers. Apple Snow. Whipped Cream. 

Coffee. Crackers. Cheese. 



48 



Winter 

Cook Book. 

RECEIPTS. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

Onequart buckwheat flour, two tablespoons whiteflour, one tablespoon sugar, 
one teaspoon salt. Makeup with one cake of compressed yeast into a stiff batter at 
night. Each morning take from this a portion, thin to pouring consistency 
with water and add a little soda. Each evening add more warm water, same 
amount of salt, sugar and white flour, and sufiicient buckwheat to make as stiff 
as can be stirred. 

Piga in a Blanket. 

Wrap large oysters in very thin slices of bacon, fasten with toothpicks, add 
pepper; fry. 

Cheese Omelette. 

One cup cracker crumbs, one cup milk, one cup grated cheese, three eggs — 
yolks and whites beaten separately — salt. Mix together, adding beaten whites 
of eggs last. Bake ten minutes in buttered dish. 

Tenderloin Roll. 

Split leng-thwise two' pork tenderloins and between them put bread dress- 
ing seasoned with sage. Wrap with twine and bake one hour. Serve hot or in 
thin slices cold. 

Corn Pudding. 

One can of com, salt, butter the size of a walnut, sweeten to taste, cover with 
milk to which has been added two well-beaten eggs. Bake as custard. 

Tomato Aspic. 

One can tomatoes, strained; one slice onion, a few bay leaves, stalks of 
celery, one teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon paprika. Let boil one minute. Add 
three-fourths box of gelatine soaked in one-half cup water. Stir until dissolved, 
adding juice of one lemon. Strain into cups to mould. A few English wal- 
nut meats may be placed in each cup if desired. Serve on lettuce leaf with 

Mayonnaise. 

Apple Snow. 

Bake six apples. Put these through the colander while warm. Sweeten 
to taste. Break into this the whites of two eggs and beat all with wire egg-beater 
until almost white. Serve cold with plain or whipped cream. 

49 



Winter 



Protgus Club 



MENU. 

Miss Nellie B. Young. 

BREAKFAST. 

Grape-Fruit. 

Cream of Wheat. 

Broiled Lamb Chops. Cream Potatoes. 

Whole Wheat Biscuit. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Oyster Cocktail. 

Sweet-bread Salad. Salted Wafers. 

Cold Tongue, with Potato Puffs. 

Brown Bread and Butter. 

Lemon Sponges. Sugar Cookies. 

Chocolate. 

DINNER. 

Blue Points. 

Consomme. Celery. 

Ginger Ice. 

Roast Leg of Lamb, Boned, Stuffed with Chicken. 

Mashed Potatoes. French Peas. Cauliflower. 

Hot Biscuit. 

Asparagus Salad. Cheese Straws. 

Nesselrode Pudding. French Chocolate Cake. 

Water Crackers. Edam Cheese. 

Coffee. 



50 



Winter 

C 00k Book. 

RECEIPTS. 

Crea.m Potatoes. 

From cold boiled potatoes make four cups of diced potatoes, salt and 
pepper. Heat one pint of cream to boiling point, thicken with a tablespoon 
of flour mixed with cold cream. Turn in the diced potatoes and heat slowly. 

Whole Wheat Biscuit. 

Into one pint of whole wheat flour put one-half teaspoon of salt, two 
teaspoons of baking powder. Sift together and work through two tablespoons 
of butter. Add from one^half to three-fourths cup of sweet milk and mix 
with a spoon. Turn out on moulding board, press it all together, roll out, cut 
in small biscuit and bake in quick oven. 

Kinsley's Bk.eceipt for Coffee. 

Three pints of boiling water, one-fourth pound best ground coffee, one 
egg. Break the egg into the dry coffee, stir together until the coffee has entirely 
absorbed the egg, then put into the boiling water and let it boil five minutes. 
Strain through a flannel into a China or porcelain coffee pot and it is ready 
to serve. 

Oyster Cocktail. 

Put six small o2;sters in. a cocktail glass, add one tablespoon each of 
tomato catsup. Worcestershire sauce, lemon juice, horse radish and shaved 
ice ; half teaspoon salt and two dashes of tobasco' sauce. 

S'weet=bread Salad. 

Take two sweet breads and boil one-half hour in salt water ; cool and cut or 
chop in small pieces. One cup of small sweet pickles, sliced thin, one cup of 
cold pickled beets, chopped; one cup of French peas, drained; one cup of 
chopped celery. Mix together and cover with salad dressing. 

Salad Dressing. 

Yolks of seven eggs, three tablespoons olive oil, one-half cup vinegar, one- 
half cup melted butter, juice of one lemon, two teaspoons (level) salt, one- 
halJ teaspoon white pepper, four tablespoons powdered sugar, one-eighth 
teaspoonful red pepper, one and one-half teaspoons mustard, one cup or more 
of whipped cream. Beat the eggs until thick and light colored, then add 
alternately a few drops at a time of nil nri.d then vinegar; then the lemon juice 

51 



Winter 

P r ot tu s Club 

and butter in the same manner and cook until the spoon is coated. After sift- 
ing seasonings add to the mixture and when cold add the whipped cream. 

Potato Puffs. 

Prepare the potatoes as for mashed potato-. While hot, shape in balls 
about the size of an e^g. Have a tin sheet well buttered and place the balls on 
it. As soon as all are done brush over with beaten egg. Brown in the oven. 
When done, slip a knife under them and slide tliem upon a hot platter. Garnish 
•with parsley and serve immediately. 

Lemon Sponge. 

The juice of four lemons, four eggs, one cup sugar, half a package of 
gelatine, one pint of cold water. Soak the gelatine two hours in half a cup 
of the water. Squeeze the lemons and strain on the sugar. Beat the yolks of 
the eggs and mix them with the remainder of the water. Add the sugar and^ 
lemon to this, and cook in the double boiler until it begins to 
thicken; then add the gelatine. Strain this mixture into a tin 
basin placed in a pan of ice water. Beat with the whisk occasionally 
until it has cooled but not hardened. Now add the unbeaten whites 
of the eggg, and beat constantly until the mixture begins to thicken. Let it 
thicken almost to the point where it cannot be poured and then turn into a 
mould and set away to harden. Remember the whites of the eggs must be 
added as soon as the mixture cools, which should be in about six or eight 
minutes, and that the mixture must be beaten until it begins to harden. The 
hardening is rapid after it once begins, so have the moulds ready. Serve >vith 
powdered sugar and cream. 

Sugar Cookies. 

Two and a half cups flour, one-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one t^g, one- 
fourth cup soair milk, one teaspoon baking po-wtier. 

Ginger Ice. 

One teaspoon gelatine, one cup sugar, juice of four lemons, juice of two 
oranges, one and one-half cups cold water, one half cup boiling water; soak 
one teaspoon gelatine in one and a half cups cold water five minutes, add one- 
half cup boilinsf water and when dissolved, add one cup sugar, one cup cold 
water, and the orange juice; when sugar is dissolved, strain and freeze. When 
half frozen add two tablespoons of chopped candied ginger. 

52 



Winter 

Cook Book. 

Roast Leg of Lamb Boned, and Stuffed ^wiih Chicken. 

Have tlie butclier take the bone out of the leg of lamb. Fill with cooked 
ohicken, chopped and seasoned. Roast. 

Asparagus Salad. 

Make bed of crisped lettuce and take canned white asparagus tips and 
lay on lettuce. Cover with Mayonnaise dressing. 

Nesselrode Pudding. 

One pint of large chestnuts, one pint of cream, one pint of water, yolks 
of six eggs, one pound of sugar, one-half pint of grated 
pineapple, one pound of mixed French candied fruit. Boil the chest- 
nuts until tender, remove the shells and the brown skins; press the 
pulp through a colander. Boil the sugar and water together for five minutes; 
beat the yolks of the eggs together until light, add them to the boiling syrup, 
take from the fire, and beat continuously until thick and cool. When cold add 
the candied fruit, chopped very fine, a tablespoon of vanilla, the pineapple and 
the chestnuts. Turn into tlie freezer and freeze. When frozen, remove vhe 
dasher and stir in the cream whipped to a stiff froth. 

French Chocolate Cake. 

The whites of seven eggs, two cups of sugar, two-thirds cup of butter, one 
cup of milk, three cups of flour, three teaspoons of baking powder. The chocolate 
part of the cake is made the same as the above, only use the yolks of the eggs and 
one cup grated chocolate ; bake it in layers, and spread a custard between them 
which is made witb two eggs, one pint of milk, one-half cup sugar, one table- 
spoon of oomstarch, and one teaspoon of vanilla. 



53 



Winter 



Pro teas Club. 



MENU. 

Miss Ruth Gordon Gatch, 

BREAKFAST. 

Cream of Wheat, with Cream and Sugar. 

Bacon. Omelette. 

Baking Powder Biscuit. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Salmon Loaf. Catsup Sauce. 

Warm Rolls. Plum Jelly. 

Cocoa. Nut Cookies. 

DINNER. 

Creamed Chicken Broth. 

Roast Lamb. Mint Sauce. 

Escalloped Rice and Cheese. Peas. Chopped Pickles. 

Lettuce, wtth French Dressing. 

Wafers. Meringues. 

Coffee. 



S4 



Winter 

Cook Book. 

REICEIPTS. 

Omelette. 

Beat yolks and whites of eggs separately, add one tablespoon of milk for 
each egg, salt and pepper and a little cornstarch (about one-half teaspoon to six 
eggs). Cook slowly until well raised, then brown quickly. 

Salmon Loaf. 

Four eggs beaten light, one can salmon, four tablespoons melted butter, 
one-half cup of fine bread crumbs ; salt, pepper, celery salt. Chop salmon fine, 
add melted butter, and beat to a light, smooth paste. Put the bread in the 
beaten eggs, add seasoning and turn into the salmon paste. Steam one and 
one-half hours. 

Sauce for Salmon Loaf. 

Make a cream sauce of one cup of milk, one tablespoon of flour, one table- 
spoon of butter, add to this one tablespoon of salmon liquor, and one tablespoon 
of tomato catsup. 

Nut Cookies. 

Us© any good crisp cookie receipt, roll very thin and sprinkle with chopped 
nuts and sugar before cutting. 

Escalloped R.ice and Cheese. 

For two cups of boiled rice, make one cup of cream sauce. Put a layen 
of cold rice in baking dish, cover with cream sauce and sprinkle thickly with 
grated cheese. Repeat until dish is full, covering the last layer with fine bread 
crumbs and a little butter. 

Meringues. 

Beat whites of nine eggs stiff, add two cups granulated sugar, stirred in 
without beating. Have a hard wood board the size of your oven and cover it 
with writing paper. Drop spoonfuls of the meringue on this board, making 
from twenty-five to thirty. Bake one and one-half hours in a very slow oven. 
Take each one from board with a sharp knife and smooth back the inside from 
the bottom while warm. Let cool. Fill with whipped cream or bisque ice 
cream just before serving, putting two together. 



5S 



Winter 



Proteus Club 



MENU. 

Miss Mabel Witmeb. 

BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Soft Eggs In Shell. 

Thin Broiled Ham. Hashed Brown Potatoes. 

Toast. Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 



Egg Plant on Toast. 

Baking Powder Biscuits. Gooseberry Preserves. 

Lettuce. French Dressing. 

Whole Wheat Bread, with Cheese. 

Tea. 

DINNER. 

Oyster Cocktail. 

Puree of Pea Soup. Olives. 

Broiled Chicken. Baked Mashed Potatoes. 

Cranberry Jelly. Celery. 

Apple Tapioca Pudding, with Whipped Cream. 

Coffee. 



56 



Winter 

Cook Book. 

RECELIPTS. 

Soft Eggs in Shell. 

Allow the eggs to simmer in water just below the boiling point (or about 
180 degrees) for ten minutes. 

Egg Plant on Toast 

Slice the egg plant very thin, roll in egg and bread crumbs, and fry in 
browned butter. Season and serve on toast. 

French Dressing. 

One teaspoon of salt, one salt spoon of pepper with a little cayenne pepper, 

one-half saltspoon of mustard, six tablespoons of oil, two tablespoons of vinegar, 

a small piece of garlick, and a piece of ice the size of an egg. Rub the bowl 

well with garlick. Mix the dry ingredients, adding the oil gradually, and then 

add vinegar. Stir at least five minutes with the ice until cold and smooth. 

Puree of Pea Soup. 

Boil two pints of peas in two quarts of water. When quite soft, mash 
through a colander; return the pulp to the water and add one quart of ham 
stock ; thicken with a tablespoon of flour in half a cup of cream or a little butter. 
Season with paprika, and serve with small squares of bread fried in butter. 

Broiled Chicken. 

Cut the chicken open down the back and spread it out as flat as possible on 
the broiler. E-ub with a little melted butter, and cook about half an hour or 
until thoroughly cooked. Chop fine the liver, gizzard and heart and boil in two 
cups of water until tender. Make a sauce of two tablespoons of melted butter and 
two tablespoons of flour cooked together until bro^vn ; add one cup of cream, stir- 
ring until smooth. Put into the giblets and the water in which they were boiled 
and season. Put salt and a little pepper over the chicken when done, and serve 
in the sauce. 

Apple Tapioca, 

Pare, core and cut in half, six tart apples. On each piece drop a teaspoon of 
gugar, small lump of butter and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Pour one quart of 
water over one-half cut of instantaneous tapioca ; season with salt. Pour this 
over the apples in a pudding dish, and bake until apples are soft. Serve when 
slightly warm, with whipped cream. 

57 



Thanhsgiving 

Proteus Club 



Thanksgiving Dinner. 

MENU. 

Miss Anna Henry. 

Oysters on Half Shell. 

Smelts, with Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Baked Turkey — Oyster Dressing. Gravy. 

Baked Squash. Mashed Potatoes. Fried Parsnips. 

Lettuce Salad — French Dressing. 

Plum Pudding. Pumpkin Pie. 

Nuts. Raisins. 

Cheese. Crackers. Coffee. 



rece:ipts. 

Smelts. 

Fried with heads on, same as brook trout. Beat an egg, roll fish in it, then 
in bread crumbs. Fry in hot drippings (or half lard and half butter) a delicate 
brown ; garnish with cress or parsley. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Yolks of two eggs. Place the bowl in a pan filled with small lumps of ice, 
to chill. Two tablespoons of best olive oil to each egg', drop' oil in by degrees, 
stirring constantly, until two tablespoons have been used ; the other two may be 
dropped faster. When oil is thoroughly mixed, or has the appearance of jelly, 
put in one teaspoon of salt, half of paprika, and half of mustard. Squeeze in 
portion of juica of a lemon for flavor. If too thick, thin it with very rfch 
cream. 

Oyster Turkey Dressing. 

Cut brown crust from slices of one loaf stale bread, half can of oyster juice 
to soften, or rich milk, and half cup of melted butter. Mix well with fingers; 
add a teaspoon of salt, same or less of powdered summer savory, a bit of sage, 
then mix in oysters. Use a whole can if desired, but half will do for eight- 
pound turkey. 

58 



Thanksgiving 

Cook B 09 k . 



Baked Winter Squash. 

Cut the squash, take out seeds, and without paring cut into large pieces j 
put in a pan, place) in a moderately hot oven, and bake an hour. When done, 
peel and mash like mashed potatoes, or ser\'e the pieces on a hot dish, to be eaten 
warm with butter, like sweet potatoes. Retains sweetness better this way tham 
when boiled. 

Fried Parsnips. 

Boil tender in little hot water, salted ; scrape, cut into long slices, dredge 
with flour ; fry in hot lard or drippings, or in butter and lard mixed ; fry decid- 
edly brown. Drain off fat and serve. 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing. 

Lettuce washed and dried with soft towel. Dressing — Mix one saltspoon 
of pepper with one of salt, a pinch of sugar, add three tablespoons of olive oil, 
one tablespoon vinegar. When well mixed, pour over lettuce and serve. 

PumpKin Pie. 

One quart stewed pumpkin, nine eggs (whites and yolks beaten separ- 
ately), two quarts milk, one teaspoon mace, one teaspoon cinnamon, same of 
nutmeg, one and one-half cups white sugar, or very light brown sugar. Beat 
all together thoroughly and bake in crust without cover. 

Baked Plum Pudding. 

One and one^fourth pounds flour, one pound seeded raisins, cut in two and 
dredge with flour; one-half pound suet, freed from strings and powdered, one 
cup sugar, two ounces citron shredded fine, five eggs, whites and yolks beaten 
separately ; nutmeg, cinnamon and cloves, teaspoon of each ; milk to make a 
thick batter of the flour. Begin with two cups, add more if necessary. 

Pudding Sauce. 

Yolks of four eggs, whipped light, one lemon (juice) and half of grated 
peel, one glass of wine (best obtainable), one teaspoon cinnamon, one cup sugar, 
one tablespoon butter. Rub butter into sugar, add yolks, lemon and spice. Beat 
ten minutes and put in wine, still stirring hard. Put in sanceT>an of boiling 
water and beat while it heats, but do not let boil. Pour over the pudding. 



Christmas 
New Year 



Protgus Club 

Christmas Dinner. 
MENU. 

Mbs. Habby Polk. 

Cream of Celery. 

Planked Fish. 

Macaroni, with Cheese. Olives. 

Roast Turkey, with Oyster Gravy. 

Feather Potatoes. Creamed Cauliflower. 

Escalloped Oysters. Cranberry Sauce. 

Creme de Menthe Ice. 

Celery. 

Asparagus Salad. Wafers. 

Plum Pudding, with Hard Sauce. 

Nuts. Raisins. Coffee. 



New Year's Dinner. 

MENU. 

Miss Mabel Bowen. 
Consomme! Olives. 

Bread Sticks. 
Fried Oysters. Celery Salad. 

Brown-Bread Cheese Sandwiches. 
Belgian Hare. Currant Jelly. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes in the Half Shell. 
Bread and Butter. Stewed Tomatoes. 

Pistachio Mousse. 
Fruit Cake. Small Cakes. 

Preserved Ginger. Nuts. 

Coffee. 
60 



f4 e -w Year 

Cook Book. 

RECEIPTS. 

Fried Oysters. 

Wash and drain tlie oysters; season with salt and pepper. Roll in fine 
oracker crumbs, in egg and in crumbs again. Fry in deep hot fat, about one 
minute. Drain on soft brown paper and serve hot. 

Celery Sa.lad. 

Make a lemon jelly using juice of three lemons, onet-half box of Cbioper*8 
gelatine, soaked in one cup of cold water. Add two cups sugar and two cups 
boiling water. Strain and oool. When nearly cold add diced celery and pour 
into individual moulds to harden. Serve on lettuce leaves or the celery top3 
with horseradish dressing. 

Horse Radish Dressing. 

One pint of whipped cream, one^-half cup prepared horseradish and juice 
of half a lemonu 

Bro'wn Bread Cheese Sandw^iches. 

Use brown or graham bread ; spread with butter, then with grated cheese. 
Place in hot oven until the cheese begins to melt. Serve while fresh. 

Roast Belgian Hare. 

Make a dressing of fine bread crumbs, part graham is best. Add to the 
crumbs a small lump of fresh butter, a little dry sage and moisten well with 
tepid water, stirring well as you add it. Do not put in too much water ; have 
the dressing light and flaky, not w^et and heavy. The large and delicious liver 
of the hare, having been thoroughly steamed, can b© chopped into bits and put 
into the stuffing. Fill the hare, leaving plenty of room for the dressing to 
swell ; sew up, put the hare into a dripping pan, add a cup of boiling water and 
roast as slow as possible during the first half hour. Baste every fifteen or 
twenty minutes, turning as needed, and if any part browns too fast cover it 
with a cloth, wet in warm water. Koast from one to two hours ; test with a fork 
to ascertain when done, remove from pan and make gravy; drain the grease all 
off, and set the pan on the stove, thicken with browned flour, wet with milk, and 
boil up a moment. A few tablespoons of claret adds a gaminess to the dish. 

61 



N e ^v Year 

Proteus Club 



Mashed 6^veet Potatoes in the Half Shell 

Cut baked sweet potatoes in kalves lengthwise. Remove tlie pulp from 
the skins and rice it. Season with, salt, butter and cream. Beat until smooth. 
Then refill the skins, putting the mixture in very lightly. Dust the tops with 
powdered sugar and reheat before serving. 

Pistachio Mousse. 

Sweeten and flavor with extract of pis.tachio, a pint of whipped cream. 
Color green with Burnett's vegetable coloring. Pack in a mould, having a tight 
cover. Place in a pail of chipped ice and salt and let stand three or four hours. 



62 



£« a s t e r 

Cook Book. 

Easter BreaKfast. 
MENU. 

Mrs. George Gilbeet. 

Oranges. 

Iced Vitos. Moulded in Egg Shells, 

Lobster Eggs in Potato Nest. 

Fried Chicken. Cream Gravy. 

Hot Biscuit. Hominy. 

Water-cress. Wafers. 

Omelette, with Mushrooms. 

Waffles. Maple Syrup. 

Coffee. 

RECEIPTS. 

Iced Vitos, 

Ctip of vitos in a quart of boiling water, with a pincli of salt. Cook till 
very thick ; pour into the egg shell, set away until cold ; peel o5 the shell, serve 
iced vitos with sugar and cream. 

Lobster Eggs. 
Made the same way as for chops only mould in shape of eggs. 

Potato Nest. 

Pare the potatoes, boil and ran through potato squeezer, leave in that form, 
then line the sides and bottom of largest size fiying basket with the potatoes ; 
then set inside a smaller frying basket (empty), then fry the potatoes a golden 
brown. When done take out the empty inner basket and carefully remove the 
nest from large basket and set in warm place; then place lobster eggs in the 
nest and serve hot, giving a piece of the nest and an egg to each one. 

Fried ChicKen. 

As the chicken in the spring is apt to be a little more tough than tender, it 
is better to steam the fowl until tender, then frying in hot butter and lard. 

63 



Chaf ing.'Dis h 

Proteus Club 



Chafing'^Dish Luncheons. 
MENU. 

Mks. John Getchell. 

Oyster Stew, 

Creamed Chicken, with Mushrooms. 

Peas, with Drawn Butter. Grilled Sweet Potatoes. 

Lettuce Salad French Dressing. 

Coffee Jelly, with Whipped Cream. 

Coffee. 

RECEIPTS. 

Oyster Stew. 

To three pints of sweet milk add the liquor of the oysters. When this 
comes to a hoil, add oysters, one large tablespoon of butter, pepper and salt. 
Serve as soon as hot, with toasted bread cut in small dice. 

Creamed ChicKen a.nd Mushrooms. 

A large tablespoon of butter stirred intoi a heaping teaspoon of flour. 
Before it browns add one cup of milk, pepper and salt. Stir until smooth and 
hot, then add one cup of cold chicken and one-half cup of mushrooms. Simmei 
a minute and serve very hot. 

Grilled Sweet Potatoes. 

Cut cold boiled sweet potatoics in large thin' slices and brown on each side 
in butter on the hot pan over the open flame. 

Coffee Jelly. 

Soak one package of gelatine in one cup of cold water for two minutea, 
then add two pints of strong boiling coffee and two cups of sugar; strain into 
a mould and set away to harden. Serve with whipped cream. 



64 



Chaf in g-Dish 

Cook Book. 



ME,NU. 

Miss Maude Habbach, 

Blue Points Served in Ice Cups. 

Horseradish. 

Tomato BisQue Soup. Breadsticks. 

Creamed Chicken Livers in Croustades. Mushroom Sauce. 

Broiled Lamb Chops. Mint Jelly. 

Peas. Parisienne Potatoes.. 

Bread and Butter. 

Bird's Nest Salad. Wafers. 

Fruit Ice. 

Cake. Coffee. 

RILCEIPTS. 

Tomato Bisque Soup. 

One-half can tomatoes, one quart oi milk, two tablespoons butter, one 
tablespoon cornstarcli, one teaspoon of salt, one-half saltspoon of pepper, one 
saltspoon of soda and a dash of cayenne. Stew tomatoes very soft and put 
through a fine sieve ; pour into a granite saucepan and add soda. When it has 
ceased foaming add butter, a little at a time, then put in the salt, pepper and 
cayenne. Put milk into' double boiler and stir in cornstarch which has been 
mixed in a little cold milk, until smooth. Let this scald for ten minutes, or 
long enough to cook the starch, then pour milk into the tomatoes. Beat well. 
Reheat in chafing dish when ready to serve. 

Creamed ChicKen Livers. 

Place in chafing dish one pint of chicken consomme'. Have ready 
creamed two round tablespoons of flour and two level tablespoons of butter. 
Add this to the stock, and when hot add the livers and mushrooms, which have 
been 'boiled. Serve in croustades. 

Croustadea. 

These may be cut from round baker's bread by using two sizes of biscuit 
cutters, leaving a box with sides and bottom one-half inch in thickness and 
about two inches high. These are to be toasted. 

65 



Chaf ing-Dish 

Proteus Club 



Lamb Chops. 

These can be brofled in tiie chafing dish, serving two on a slice of toast and 
garnishing with the mint jelly and lemon. 

Mint Jelly. 

Boil a pint of spearmint leaves in a pint of water until it tastes strong 

of the mjint, then add the juice of one lemon and a pinch of sugar and salt. 

Soak one box of gelatine in a cup of cold water and add a pint of boiling water. 

Mix all together and set away to harden. This can be put in small moulds or 

in one large one. 

Birds Nest Salad. 

Mix a little green fruit coloring paste into cream cheese and mould into 
small balls. Place these on little nests of shredded lettuce which have been 
seasoned with French dressing. 

MENU. 

Miss Ruth Gbefe. 

Oyster a la Newburg. 

Potatoes Lyonnaise. Deviled Almonds. 

Bread and Butter. 

Macaroon Pudding. Chocolate. 

RECEIPTS. 

Oysters a la New^burg. 

One quart of oysters, one-fourth cup of butter, one-half teaspoon salt, a 
few grains of cayenne, a little grated nutmeg, one tablespoon of sherry, one 
tablespoon of brandy, one-half cup of thin cream and yolks of two eggs. Melt 
butter, add oysters and cook until the edges curl, then put in the seasonings and 
wine and cook one minute. Add the cream and yolks slightly beaten. Stir 
imtil thickened. Serve with toast or puff paste points. 

Potatoes Lyonnaise. 

First fry a tablespoon of minced onion in a little butter until the butter 
has obained the onion flavor. Remove the onion and put in potatoes cut into 
dice. Fry until they assfume a golden brown color, when they are ready to 
serve. 

66 



C haf ing-Diah 

Cook Book. 

Deviled Almonds. 

Two ounces of blanclied and shredded Jordan almonds, butter, one table- 
spoon of Cbutney sauce, two tablespoons of chopped pickles, one tablespoon of 
Worcestershire sauce, one-fourth teaspoon salt and a few grains of cayenne 
Fry almonds in butter until well browned. Mix remaining ingredients, pour 
over the nuts and serve as soon as the whole is well heated. 

Macaroon Pudding. 

Sixteen macaroons, three eggs, four and one-half tablespoons sugar, one- 
fourth teaspoon salt, one cup milk, one cup cream, two tablespoons blanched 
and chopped almonds, and four finely powdei-ed macaroons. Soak the whole 
macaroons in sherry for ten minutes. Beat eggs until creamy, add sugar, salt, 
milk and cream and beat again ; then add almonds, one-fourth tablespoon flav- 
oring and the powdered macaroons. Turn into chafing dish, arrange soaked 
macaroons on top and cook over water for thirty minutes. 

MENU. 

Mbs. Wiluam Pabkeb Chase. 

Escalloped Oysters. Hot Buttered Wafers. 

Pickles. Olives. 

Peanut Salad. 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches. Chocolate. 

RECE.IPTS. 

Escalloped Oysters. 

One quart of oysters, two tablespoons of butter, one cup of cream, one- 
half cup of cracker crumbs, pepper and salt. Put the butter and cream in the 
chafing-dish. Strain oysters and put them in layers sprinkled freely with 
cracker crumbs, and pepper and salt to taste. Cover and cook from five to ten 

minutes. 

Peanut Salad. 

One stalk of celery cut very fine, three-fourths of a cup of chopped pea- 
nuts, three apples chopped fine and one-half cup of salad dressing. Mix celery, 
apples amd nuts together and sprinkle with a little salt ; then add the dressing. 
Serve on shredded lettuce, or in a nest of water-cress. 

67 



Parties 

Proteus Club 



Afternoon or Evening Parties. 

MENU. 

Miss Helen Howell. 

Sweet-bread and Mushroom Salad. 
Mango Pickles. Creme de Menthe. Jelly. 

Cafe Parfait, Served with Algretti's 
Coffee or Chocolate. 

RECEIPTS. 

S'vireetobread and Mushroom Salad. 

Take sweet-breads, which have been boiled until tender, and cut quite fine, 
and to each pint of sweet-breads add one-half pint of mushrooms. Mix thor- 
oughly with Mayonnaise dressing and serve on crisp lettuce. 

Cucumber Sand-wiches. 

Soak cucumbers in vinegar for a few hours to remove acid. Cut in small 
dice and add a tiny piece of onion, some salt, pepper and tobasco and vinegar, 
if desired (some prefer milk). Cut bread in long oval pieces, spread with a 
little butter, put the prepared cucumber on a piece of lettuce (being careful 
to remove all liquid), and place between the bread. Tie each sandwich with a 
green ribbon, placing under the ribbon a small green leaf or a sprig of Sweet 
Alyssum. 

Creme de Menthe Jelly. 

Place in bottom of individual moulds a few green grapes cut in half and 
•eeded. Make an ordinary gelatine, flavored highly with creme de menthe and 
pour over this. In making one large mould a whole bunch of grapes jellied in the 
center is effective. 

Cafe' Parfait. 

This is coffee ice cream with rich chocolate syrup poured over it and the 
whole covered with whipped cream. It should be served in champagne glasses. 
On the plate put two or three allegretti's and a rose or sprig of mignonetta 

68 



Parties 

Cook Book. 

MENU. 

Mrs. Cbayke Priestley. 

Turkey Salad. Cranberry Ice. 

Nut Sandwiches. 

Brandy Jelly. Whipped Cream. 

Coffee. Small Cakes. 

RCCELIPTS. 

TurKey Salad, 

Dice tlie white meat of cooked turkey; cut fine tke tender white parta 
of celery, which have been placed in cold water for a few minutes. To every 
pint of turkey allow two^thirds of a pint of celery and one and one-half cups 
of Mayonnaise dressing. Dry the celery, mix with the turkey and dust with 
salt, white pepper or cayenne, then add the dressing. Serve very cold and 

garnish with celery tips. 

Cranberry Ice. 

Cook one quart cranberries until soft. Rub through a sieve, add the juice 
of two lemons, and about a pint and a half of thick syrup and freeze. Serve m 
champagne glasses, when salad is served. 

Nut Sandwiches. 

Cut thin slices of white bread and butter them. Chop some nuts quite 
fine, shred the lettuce and mix all together with the Mayonnaise and spread 
this between the buttered slices of bread. 

Mayonaise Dressing. 

Put the uncooked volks of two eggs into a deep cold dish, heat well about 
one minute; then add one-half teaspoon of salt, a dash of cayenne and on^half 
teaspoon of mustard. Work these well together then add, drop by ^^^VJ^^^ 
half pint or more of olive oil. Stir rapidly and steadily while adding the oiL 
Do not reverse the motion or it may curdle. After adding one gill of oil, alter- 
nate with a few drops of lemon juice or vinegar Start with three eg^s ^v^en 
making} a quart of dressing. It may also bo varied by addmg whipped cream 

and one-half teaspoon of onion juice. 

69 



Parties 

Proteus Club 

Brandy Jelly. 

One box of gelatine, one pound of sugar, the juice of two lemons, juice of 
two oranges, one-half pint of sherry, one gill of brandy, one-half pint of cold 
water and one quart of boiling! water. Put gelatine in cold water one hour, 
then add sugar and boiling water and stir until sugar is dissolved. Add lemon 
and orange juice and the sherry and brandy. Strain through flannel jelly bag 
and) stand away to harden. If desired, cherries or other fruit may be put in. 

MENU. 

Mb3, Henby Wiixiam Menmo. 

Water-cresa Salad. 

Egg Sandwiches. Olives. Cheese Balls. 

Tea. Chocolate. 

Chocolate Wafers. Marguerites. 

English Walnut Glace • Bonbons. 

RECEIPTS. 

Waterscress Salad. 

Make tart lemon jelly ; color slightly with leaf green mould in ramequins 
with a spray of water-cress in center. Chop nuts, celery and bits of red radishes 
and mix in Mayonnaise dressing. Serve on shredded lettuce, with Mayonnaise 
mixture around the mould. 

Marguerites. 

For one box salt wafers ; two cups granulated sugar, boil till it threads ; turn 
into the beaten whites of two eggs, add a cup of chopped blanched almonds J 
flavor with vanilla. Spread on wafers and brown lightly in quick oven. 

MENU. 

Miss Nettie Wymax. 



Shrimp Salad. Cheese Balls. 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches. 
Cream in Cases. Chocolate, with Whipped Cream. Frosted Wafers. 

70 



Parties 

Cook Book. 

RECEIPTS. 

Shrimp Salad. 

Skin the shrimps and to every pint mix one-half pint of tender celery cut 
fine and a few lettuce leaves chopped, using the white head lettuce. Mix with 
salad dressing and serve on. lettuce leaves. 

Cheese Balls. 

To one-half pound of American cheese grated, add one-half cup of fresh 
bread broken into tiny crumbs, and two eggs beaten very light, one-half teaspoon 
of salt and a little pepper. Make into balls and roll these in beaten eggs, and 
then in more bread crumbs and drop into hot lard until light brown. 

Frosted Wafers. 

C^bver small square salted wafers with frosting, and sprinkle with nuts, and 
candied cherries cut fine. Bro%vn in the oven. 

MENU. 

Mrs. Lial C. Sutherland. 

Chicken Salad, with Garnishing of Shredded Lettuce. 

Cheese Straws. Thin Bread and Butter. 

Coffee. 

Sweet Sandwiches. 

Peach Ice, with Whipped Cream. 

Fancy Cake. Bonbons. 

RECEIPTS. 

Chicken Salad. 
Dice cold cooked chicken; take one part oil and three of vinegar, with 
pepper and salt to taste, stir this into the chicken and let stand two hours. Drain 
off any of the liquid, which has not been absorbed. Take tender stalks of celery 
and cut them into small pieces. Use two-thirds as much celery as chicken. Keep 
the chicken in a cold place until ready to serve, then add the celery, some 
chopped olives (and nasturtium seed pickles, if desired). Add lightly a 
little Mayonnaise dressing. Serve on shredded lettuce in the center of the 
plates and around it build a little "pen" of cheese straws by laying them one 
over the other. 

71 



Parties 

Proteus Club 



S'weet Sand'wiches. 

These sandwiches are made of "Bunds," which is made in the following 
manner: The ingredients, three cups of milk, three eggs, three tablespoons of 
sugar, three level tablespoons of butter, one teaspoon of salt and one cake of 
compi^ssed jeast. Scald the millc in a double boiler. Add the eggs well beaten, 
then the sugar and salt. Turn this into an earthen bowl. When lukpwann, 
add the jeast, which has been dissolved in lukewarm water. Add 
enough flour to make it the consistency of "poor batter." Beat fifteen minutes ; 
let it rise. When light, add enough more flour to make it thick enough to 
knead; knead from twenty to thirty minutes. Set it to rise in a well buttered 
bowl, also butter the top of the dough. When light this time knead in the but- 
ter and work it into loaves. Set to rise in bread pans for about an hour ; bake. 
Brush the top of the loaves with sweet milk. To make the sandwiches, cut 
bread in any desired shape and spread thinly wath butter, then with scraped 
banana. On this spread a layer of candied fruits. Cut the fruits, do not chop 
them, and lay on parafiie paper until ready to be used. In this way the fill- 
in can be prepared a week before the party if desired. If preferred, a filling of 
candied cherries and nuts can be used. 

Peach Ice with Whipped Cream. 

Take canned peaches, rub them through a seive, then add lemon juice iu 
the proportion of one lemon tO' a quart of fruit. Dissolve one teaspoon of gela- 
tine in warm water to one quart of fruit. Add a small quantity of red fniit- 
coloring paste, just enough to give a pink color to the ice. Make a syrup of sugar 
and water, add to the peaches and freeze. Sweeten the cream with powdered 
sugar, flavor; whip and pack in ice for four hours. It. should be only partly 
frozen. Serve the ice in sherbet cups with the whipped cream heaped on top. 



MENU. 
Miss Bonnie Marshall. 

Creamed Oysters in Cases. 

Olives. Orange Jelly. 

Chestnut Salad. 

Cheese Wafers. Almonds. 

Ice Cream. 
Cake. Coffee. 

72 



Pa r ties 

Cook Book. 

RECE^IPTS. 

Creamed Oysters. 

Heat a quart of oysters to boiling point. Drain and make a sauce witih 
oyster liquor, cream, flour, butter, salt and pepper; add the oysters. Cut the 
stems from red or green peppers, being careful not to cut through the skin, then 
cut the tops and remove seeds. Turn the oysters into these cases, sprinkle with 
buttered cracker crumbs and brown in hot oven. Ramequins may be used instead 
of the peppers. 

Chestnut Salad. 

Pare the chestnuts and cut in quarters. Then cut two-thirds as much celery 
quite fine and mix with the chestnuts. This should be served with Mayonnaise 
dressing and garnished with lettuce. 

Cheese Wafers. 
Take small round salted wafers and sprinkle freely with grated New York 
cream cheese and brown in the oven. 

Orange Jelly. 
One box of gelatine covered in a pint of cold water for twenty minutes. 
Pour over this one quart of boiling water ; add one pint of sugar and the juice 
of three oranges and two lemons. Stand in a cold place to harden. 

White Cake. 
Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup of milk, three cups 
of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder and the whites of eight eggs. Bake 
in a loaf or in layers and use plain boiled icing. 

Chocolate CaKe. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, one-half cup 
cold water or milk, one-half cup of chocolate dissolved in one-half cup of boiling 
water, a small teaspoon of cream tartar mixed into one and three-fourths cups 
of flour and one-half teaspoon of soda in hot water. Cteam, butter and sugar 
together, add the yolks of the eggs, the milk or water with the soda stirred in, 
then the chocolate and flour and lastly, the whites of the eggs well beaten. Bake 
in layer tins and cover with boiled icing. 

Boiled Icing. 

One cup of sugar, five tablespoons of water. Boil until it threads from the 
spoon, then pour gradually into the beaten white of one egg and beat until 
creamy. Flavor with one teaspoon of vanilla. 

73 



Golf 

Prottmt Club 

Golf Functions. 

Menu for a Golf Supper. 

Miss Loxtise Elbebt. 

Oyster Soup. 

Crakers. Celery. 

Creamed Chicken and Mushrooms. 

Lettuce and Egg Salad. 

Cream Cheese and Nut Sandwiches. 

Sherried Bananas. Macaroons. 

Black Coffee. 

RE,CEIPTS. 

Oyster Soup. 

One tablespoon butter, one scant tablespoon flour, one quart rich milk, one 
quart oysters, one pint whipped cream. Melt butter, mix smooth, with flour; 
add milk, stirring slowly until it thickens, then the oysters. Cook until edges 
of oysters ourl. Take from fire and add whipped cream. Season to taste. 

Creamed Chicken and Mushrooms. 

One large chicken, one pound fresh mushrooms, or one can, one tablespoo(ni 
butter, one tablespoon flour, one quart stock (saved from boiling chicken), on© 
pint of cream. Boil chicken until tender, cut into dice, also dice mushrooms. 
Melt the butter, mix smooth with the flour, add stock and cream, stirring until 
thickened, then the chicken and mushrooms. Season to taste. Cook until mush- 
rooms are tender. 

Lettuce and Egg Salad. 

Fresh head lettuce. As many eggs as people. Boil eggs hard, peel, cu^ 
in half, remove yolks. Mash yolks into a smooth paste, adding olive oil, must- 
ard, vinegar, salt and pepper. Put back into the whites, arrange on lettuce and 
cover with French dressing. 

Cream Cheese and Nut Sandw^iches. 

Take thinly cut and buttered bread and spread with any cream cheeee, 
mixed with finely chopped nuts. 

74 



Golf 

Cook Book, 

Sherried Bananas. 

Arrange in a dish a layer of thinly sliced bananas, cover with sugar, wet 
with sherry, cover with whipped cream. Repeat until dish is filled. 

Menu for a Golf Supper. 



Mrs. Richard Russell Rollins. 

Tomato Soup. Hot Crackers. 

Porterhouse Steak. Mushroom Sauce. 

Baked Stuffed Potatoes. Vegetables. 

Coffee. Hot Biscuits. 

Fruit Gelatine. Cake. 

Tomato Soup. 

re,ce:ipts. 

Tomato Soup. 

To one quart tomatoes, add two quarts water, boil fifteen minutes, drop 
in carefully enough soda to neutralize the acidity (usually a small teaspoon to 
one quart tomatoes). Strain through a colander, add one quart rich milk, 
boiled in double boiler. Stir in eight finely powdered crackers, butter, pepper, 
salt and allow to boil up. 

Mushroom Sauce. 

One can French mushrooms, two cups stock, two tablespoons flour, four 
tablespoons butter, salt and pepper. Melt butter, add flour, stir until very dark 
brown ; gradually add stock ; when boiling add liquor from mushrooms. Season 
and simmer twenty minutes. Skim fat that rises; add mushrooms, simmer 
five minutes. 

Stuffed BaKed Potatoes. 

Remove mealy part of baked Irish potatoes, mash, season with butter, salt, 
pepper, add enough cream to beat light. Return to the shells; bake until 
browned. 

75 



Golf 

Proteus Club 

Menu for a Golf Tea. 

Mbs. Nathan Emery Coffin, 

Hot Bouillon. Manhattan Salad. 

Ham Sandwiches. Date Sandwiches. 

Olives. Almond Bonbons. 

Meringue Glace. 

Coffee. 



re:ci:ipts. 

Hot Bouillon. 

Two and one-half pounds lean beef, one pound bones, two quarts cold 
water, one tablespoon each, of celery, carrots, and turnipsj cut into dice ; one 
teaspoon salt, four peppercorns, one-half bay leaf, spa'ig parsley, two table- 
spoons sheiry, one teaspoon caramel or one lump sugar. Cut beef into inch 
pieces, brown slightly with, small onion stuck with three cloves and sauted in 
one tablespoon of butter, add bones and water, simmer four hours; then add 
celery, carrots, turnips, salt, peppercorns, bay leaf and parsley, and simmer 
one hour. Strain through wet cloth, and clear when cold. Serve hot, adding 
sherry and caramel just before removing from fire. Enough for six persons. 

Manhattan Salad. 

One cup each diced chicken, celery and apple. Marinate one-half hour in 
lemon juice, oil salt and pepper. Serve on shredded lettuce leaves, with May- 
onnaise cream dressing, and garnish with walnut meats and graperfruit, cut 
into small pieces. 

Ham Sandwiches. 

Spread thin slices of buttered white bread with the following mixture: 
One-half cup each of cooked ham and veal finely chopj>ed and mixed thoroughly^ 
with one teaspoon vinegar, two drops tobasco sauce, one-half teaspoon mustard, 
one teaspoon horseradish, one teaspoon tomato catsup and one tablespoon Mayon- 
naise dressing. 

76 



Golf 

Cook Book. 

Date Sandw^iches. 

Spread thin slices of buttered entire wheat bread with following: 0ne7 
half cup each dates and English walnuts, chopped fine and mixed with one-half 
cup cream. 

Almond Bonbons. 

Cover almonds with boiling water, remove skins, and brown the almonds in 
a sjnip, made of one cup brown sugar, to one-quarter cup water. 

Meringues Glace . 

Whites of four eggs, one-fourth teaspoon cream tartar, one and a quarter 
cups powdered sugar, one teaspoon vanilla, one-quarter teaspoon almond extract. 
Beat whites very stiff,beat in cream of tartar, then sugar; flavor. Drop from 
spoon or pastry tube onto paper, smooth into oval shape; bake forty minutes 
in slow oven ; remove soft centers and dry in. the oven. Fill with any ice 
cream, or whipped cream with chopped nuts and fruits, put two together (dip- 
ping edges first in beaten egg) and serve one to each person. 

Menu for a Golf Tea. 

Miss Margaret Porter Robertson. 

Lobster Salad. Cheese Straws. 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches. 

Wafers. Olives. 

Currant Ice. , Assorted Cakes. 

Iced Tea Punch. 

Salted Almonds. Bonbons. 

RILCILIPTS. 

Lobster Salad. 

Boil the lobster twenty minutes in water slightly salted. ^Vhen cold 
crack the claws, disjoint, remove the head ; split body lengthwise, pick out the 
meat in bits (not too fine), arrange on lettuce leaves, in a salad bowl, cover with 
Mayonnaise dressing and garnish with the coral. 

77 

L«fC. 



Golf 

Proteus Club 

Currant Ice. 

One and onee-iialf pounds sugar, three pints water, two cups currant juice, 
whites of six eggs. Boil the water and sugar tO' one quart, skim. When cold add 
currant juice before entirely frozen, add the whites, stiffly beaten. 

Iced Tea, Punch. 

Six teaspoons tea, one quart water, one-half cup granulated sugar, six 
tablespoons lemon juice, one each lemon and orange sliced thin, one quart fresh 
strawberries, two cups powdered ice, one bunch fresh mint, one pint Apol- 
linaris. Steep tea five minutes, strain. When cold, add sugar, lemon juice, fruit 
and ice. Garnish with the mint, dusted with powdered sugar, add the Apol- 
linaris when ready to serve. Enough for six persons. 

Menu for a Golf Tea, 

Mbs. Wilmot Arthur Hakbach. 

Iced Bouillon. Pickeled Walnuts. 

Shrimp Salad. Nut Sandwiches. 

Green Gelatine, with Cherries. 

Frozen Pudding. Cake. 

Russian Tea. 



RECEIIPTS. 

Shrimp Salad. 

One quart shrimps, arrange on water cress ; garnish with two hard boiled 
eggs, one lemon sliced, and six Pirn Olas. Cover with Mayonnaise dressing. 

Nut Sandw^iches. 

Spread entire wheat bread with butter, then with following: One cup 
almonds, peanuts, English walnuts and pecans, chopped very fine and mixed 
with two tablespoons Mayonnaise cream dressing. 

78 



G o 1 r 

Cook Book. 

Frozen Pudding. 

One pint of milk, two cups of sugar, one-half cup flour (scant), two eggs, 
iwo tablespoons gelatine, one quart of cream, one pint fruit, fonr tablespoons 
sherry, four tablespoons rum. Put milk in double boiler, beat one cup sugar, 
the flour and eggs together and stir into the boiling milk ; cook twenty minutes , 
cool. Whip the cream, stir into the cooled pudding, with the remainder of the 
sugar, the i-um, sherry and fruit; freeze. Any candied, preserved or fresh 
fruits and nuts may be used. Angelica, candied pears. Maraschino cherries and 
English walnuts make a nice combination. 

Russian Tea. 

Four teaspoons tea, dried peel of one orange, cut into bits, one quart 
freshly boiling water. Pour the water over the tea and orange peel, cover for 
four minutes and serve with the following in each cup: One-half teaspoon 
sugar cystals, one-half teaspoon Jamaica rum, one preserved straw^berry or 
cherry. A good mixture of tea is eight ounces of Formosa Oolong, six of 
Cevlon and two of Eng-lish Breakfast, 



79 



Confections 

Proteus Club 

Confections. 

French Cream Candies. 

MU8. NaTHA.N EMKRY COFFliN. 

Boil oue pound of granulated sugar and half a cupful of water until the 
syrup will make a soft ball when poured into cold water. Pour the syrup into 
a cold granite pan, set in a cool place ; as soon as it begins to cool stir rapidly 
until it is white and creamy. Sprinkle confectioners' sugar over the bread- 
board and knead until soft and creamy. This is fondant, the foundation of 
all cream candies.. If you wish to make colored candies, stir in the desired 
color, (using Burnette Color Pastes), just before removing from the fire. The 
flavoring you pour over the mixture and knead in. 

Have ready halved English walnuts, pecans, filberts, blanched almonds, 
chopped figs, seeded dates, candied cherries, pineapple and pears. 

For creamed dates, roll fondant, same size as date, put it into dates, press 
together and roll in granulated sugar. 

Creamed English walnuts, roll a piece rvf the fondant about the size of a 
quarter and press on one-half of a walnut. 

Creamed almonds, the same way, or roll the fondant about the whok^ 
almoaid. Filberts and pecans can also be treated in the same manner. 

Mould the chopped figs into a piece of fondant, ]>at it out square, care- 
fully roll, then with a sharp knife cut into half inch pieces. 

The candied fruits can be chopped fine and treated as above. The cherries 
can be pressed onto little pats of fondant about the size of a dime. 

Cream wafers can be made in all colors and flavors. Pat out about the 
size of a dollar ; color orange and flavor with orange ; color violet, flavor with 
violet; color green, flavor with ]>i^tachio; color red, flavor with rose; white, 
fla^'or with peppermint. 

To make chocolates, melt a cake of Huyler's sweetened chocolate in a 
saucepan, set into another pan containing boiling water. Make your fondant 
into cone shapes or any desired shape, putting nuts in if you wish, then into 
the chocolate, cover thoroughly, remove by sliding a silver fork under each 
piece; set them in a large pan with oiled paper on the bottom, and let stand 
until entirely dry (about twelve hours). With a sharp knife remove any 
superflous chocolate froiii the edges. Chocolate patties can be made by dipping 
any of the flavored patties, the peppermints are especially nice. 

80 



Confection. 9 

Cook Book. 

i^lways put all of your finished candies on oiled paper and let them dry 
thoroughly, then pack in tin boxes and they will keep fresh some time. It is 
best to let the centers for the chocolates dry over night and dip them the next 
moiiiing. 

Fudges. 

Miss Nkttik A. Wyman. 
Chocolate Fudges. 

Take two cups of sugar, brown or white; two squares of chocolate, one cup 
of milk, one tablespoon of butter, one tablespoon of vanilla. Boil until it forms 
into a ball in cold water, stirring all the time. Then beat until it begins to 
thicken. Pour into well bi\ttered pans and cut into small squares before it 
hardens. 

orown Sugar Fudges. 

For brown fudges, use same receipt as above, omitting chocolate. Beat for 
a few moments when taken from the fire, then put in a cup of nuts cut rather 
fine and beat until thick enough to pour into pan. 

Candied Fresh Currants. 

Select clusters of very large currants, and dip these in and out of white 
syrup, which is cooked enough to sugar. Hang on a buttered string to harden. 
These are very pretty served as a bonbon for lunelioons. 



at 



I n V a 1 id 

I1 1— Mii»iM~iTrtrm — 



Proteus Club 



Invalid Dishes. 

Mrs. Hkrvey M. Pobteu. 

Baked Eggs. 

Beat the whites of the eggy very light; phiee the yolks in ramequins,heap the 
whites over them ; season with salt. Bake quickly, till light brown ; serve at once. 

Moonshine. 

Cook red apples, with skins on till tender ; sweenten to taste. Rub through a 
a sieve ; beat the white of an egg light, then beat in enough apple pulp to make 
it stand up well and still be fluffy. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

Minced Chicken. 

Cook the breast of young chicken till tender ; mince fine. Thicken liquor, 
in which it has cooked, with a little flour, add salt and little cream, then the 
minced chicken. Serve hot on zwieback, softened with cream. 

Koumiss. 

Dissolve one-fourth of cake compressed yeast, two teaspoons white sugar, 
three tablesjioons lukewarm water ; pour into quart bottle and add sufficient fresh 
milk to nearly ffll ; shake well; place in room of 70'^ to 80° F., and allow to 
ferment about six hours. Cork ti^;htly and tie cork in. Put in cool place, not 
above 60° F. and lot it remain a week, when it will bo ready for use. If there 
is a:ny curd, the fermentation has gone beyond the proper point and tbe koimiiss 
should not bo used. 

Egg Cream. 

Boat tlie yolk of a freshly laid egg with one tal)'les)M>o!n of s\igar until 
it is light and creamy. Add to thii^ half a cup of hot milk or cream and stir 
in lightly the stiffly beaten \vliite of an egg. Serve at once. 

E,gg Lemonade. 

Beat the white of an egg to stiff froth, then mix with it the juice of one 
lemon, and one tables}>onn of sugar. Add a half ]>int of cold water. 

Broiled Beef Essence. 

Broil one-half pound of round steak one or two minutes or vuitil the juico 
begins to flow. Cut in small pieces; press the juice through lemon squeezer 

82 



Invalid 

Cook Book. 

into bowl; place over hot water. Salt and serve. To make broiled beef tea, 
add one-half cup of boiling water to the above meat jnice. 

Beef Tea. 

Cut one pound of juicy round steak into small piece:? and add one cup cold 
water; let stand several hours. When ready to serve squeeze juice from moat. 
Add salt and heat, 

Irish Moss Jelly. 

One^-half cup Irish moss, one pint boiling water, one lemon, one-half cup 
sugar ; soak the moss in cold water until soft ; put into boiling water and simmer 
until dissolved, add lemon juice and sugar; strain into mould. Use currant 
juice instead of lemon, if desired. 



13 



UBRARY OF CONGRESS 

ililliiiniiini 



'^' imhJi 1,1 iiiiijij Hill ill, j|jjjjjj,jjj|jjj| 
014 480 200 7 # 



