ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 




From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 



nS'illlflifciiiiiil.'y^''*'''^ LIBHAHV 




3 1924 086 ■7{2""o84 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924086712084 



THE 

Complete Cook Book 



MRS. JENNIE DAY REES 



PHILADELPHIA 

DAVID McKAY, PUBLISHER 
604-8 South Washington Square 



Copyrighted, 1900 
By STREET & SMITH 



The Complete Cook Book 



All rights reserved, including that of translation into foreign lahguageSi 
including the Scandinavian. 



THE COMPLETE COOK BOOK. 



Cookery is eminently an experimental and a practi- 
cal art. Each day, while it adds to our experience, 
increases also our knowledge; and as we have come 
long after the Greeks and Romans, and have had the 
benefit of their experience, it is no marvel that we 
should have greatly surpassed them. In the fifth cen- 
tury, all trace of the Roman cookery had already dis- 
appeared. The Eternal City was invested, and her 
kitchen destroyed by barbarians. The consecutive in- 
cursions of hordes of barbarous tribes and nations had 
put out at once the light of science and the fire of 
cookery. 

But the darkness of the world was not of long dura- 
tion. The monks — the much-abused and much mis- 
taken monks — fanned the embers of a nascent literature, 
and cherished the flame of a new cookery. The free 
cities of Italy, Genoa, Venice, Pisa, Florence, the com- 
mon mothers of poetry, painting, sculpture, and archi- 
tecture, contemporaneously revived the gastronomic 
taste. The Mediterranean and the Adriatic offered their 
dish, and the taste for table luxuries extended itself to 
the maritinae towns and other cities of the peninsula, 
to Cadiz, Barcelona, St. Sebastian, and Seville. Spain 
had the high honor of having furnished the first cook- 
ery book in any modern tongue. It is entitled ' ' Li bro de 
Cozino, compuesto por Ruberto de Nola." This work 
is exceedingly rare. The cookery professed at this 
epoch was no longer an imitation of the Greek or 
Roman kitchen, or of the insipid dishes and thick sauces 
of the Byzantine cooks. It was a new and improved 
and extended science. It recognized the palate, 
stomach, and digestion of man. The opulent nobles of 
Italy, the rich merchant princes, charged with the affairs 



6 The Complete Cook Book. 

and commissions of Europe and Asia, the heads of the 
church — bishops, cardinals, and popes — now cultivated 
and encouraged the culinary art. 

While Italy had made this progress, France, the 
nurse of modern cooks, was in a state of barbarism, 
from which she was raised by the Italian wars under 
Charles VIII. and Louis XII. The Gauls learned a 
more refined cookery at the siege of Naples, as the 
Cossacks did, some hundreds of years later, in the 
Champs Elysees of Paris. It was under Henry III., 
about 1580, that the delicacies of the Italian tables 
were introduced at Paris. The sister arts of design and 
drawing were now called into requisition to decorate 
dishes and dinner tables. How great was the progress 
in the short space of one hundred and fifty years may 
be inferred from an edict of Charles VI., which forbade 
to his liege subjects a dinner consisting of more than 
two dishes with the soup : 'Nemo audeat dare praeter 
duo fercula cum potagio." At this period the dinner 
hour was ten o'clock in the morning, while the supper 
was served at four. 

The first regular cookery book published in France 
was, we believe, printed at Rouen in 1692. It was the 
production of the Sieur de la Varranner, esquire of the 
kitchen of M. d'Uxelles. It is dedicated to MM. Louis 
Chalon du Bled, Marquis d'Uxelles and of Cormartiu. 
He expatiates on the thousand- and-one vegetables and 
other "victual" which people know not how to dress 
with honor and contentment; and he then exclaims 
that, as France has borne off the bell from all other 
nations in courtesy and bienseance, it is only right and 
proper that she should be no less esteemed for her 
polite and delicate manner of living. The first edition 
of that remarkable cookery book, the "Dons de 
Comus," appeared about 1740, and is in every respect 
a superior work to the droll production just mentioned. 
It was composed by M. Marin, cook of the Duchesse 
de Chaulnes. The cookery of France at this epoch, and 
indeed from the time of Louis XIV., was distinguished 
by luxury and sumptuousness, but, according to 
Careme, was wanting in delicate sensualism. They 
ate well, indeed, at the court, says the professor of the 



The Complete Cook Book. 7 

culinary art; but the rich citizens, the men of letters, 
the artists "were only in the course of learning to dine, 
drink, and laugh with convenance." 

The regency and reign of Louis XV. were among the 
grand epochs of French cookery. A book called "The 
Queen's Closet Opened," published in 1663, is the first 
English cookery book. Some of the dishes in this book 
maintain their popularity to the present day — as, for 
instance, chicken and .pigeon pie, boiled rump of beef, 
and potted venison; but others have wholly passed 
away — ^as, for example, a baked red deer, a capon 
laided with lemons, a steak pie with a French pudding 
in it, a salet of smelts, flounders, or plaice, with garlic 
and mustard, an olive pie, and dressed snails. Some 
insight into the cookery of 1754 may be obtained from 
the pages of the "Connoisseur." In London, at 
"Dolly's" and "Horsman's" beefsteaks were eaten 
with gill ale; and behind the 'Change, a man worth a 
plum used to order a twopenny mess of broth with a 
boiled chop in it. Placing the chop between the two 
crusts of a halfpenny'roll, he would wrap it up in his 
check handkerchief, and carry it away for the morrow's 
dinner. 



8 The Complete Cook Book. 



A POEM BY THE POPE. 

When the pope turns frona the problems of ecclesias- 
ticism and statecraft to the writing of a poem on diets, 
it would seem, the subject is considered of some import- 
ance. I quote three stanzas here, believing many of 
my readers will be much interested in it. The poem 
is originally written in Latin in the style of Horace, 
and this translation is by Andrew Lang : 



"What diet lends the strength to life and frees 
The flower of health from each malign disease, 
The good Ofellus, pupil from of old, 
And follower of Hippocrates, has told. 
Eating base gluttony with anxious air. 
He thus laid down the laws of frugal fare : 



"Neatness comes first. Be thy spare table bright 

With shining dishes and with napkins white. 

Be thy Chianti unadulterate 

To cheer the heart and raise the spirits' weight. 

Yet trust not much the rosy god ; in fine, 

Be sure that you put water to your wine. 

Picked be thy grain and pure thy home-ma(3e bread; 

Thy meats be delicate and dairy fed. 

Tender, nor highly spiced thy food nor tease 

Thy taste with sauces from ^gean seas. 

Fresh b.e thine eggs— hard boiled or nearly raw, 

Or deftly poached or simply served au plat, 

'There's wit in poaching eggs,' the proverb says, 

And you may do them in a hundred ways. 



The Complete Cook Book. 

"Nor shun the bowl of foaming milk that feeds 
The infant and may serve the senior's needs. 
Next on the board be heaven's gift, honey, placed 
And sparing of Hyblaean nectar taste; 
Pulses and salads on thy guests bestow; 
Even in suburban gardens salads grow. 
Add chosen fruits — whate'er the times afford — 
Let rose-red apples crown the rustic board. 
Last comes the beverage of the Orient shore. 
Mocha, far-off, the fragrant berries bore. 
Taste the dark fluid with a dainty lip. 
Digestion waits on pleasure as you sip." 



lo The Complete Cook Book. 



MY DAUGHTER'S LEARNED TO COOK. 

We used to have old-fashioned things, like hominy and 

greens, 
We used to have just common soup, made out of pork 

and beans; 
But now it's bouillon, consomme, and things made 

from a book, 
And Pot au Feu and Julienne, since my daughter's 

learned to cook. 

We use to have a piece of beef — just ordinary meat. 
And pickled pigs' feet, spareribs, too^ and other things 

to eat; 
While now it's fillet and ragout, and leg of mutton 

braised, 
And macaroni au gratin, and sheep's head Holland- 

aised ; 
Escallops a la Versailles — a la this and a la that, 
And sweetbread a la Dieppoise — it's enough to kill a 

cat! 
But while I suffer deeply, I invariably look 
As if I were delighted 'cause my daughter's learned 

to cook. 

We have a lot of salad things, with dressing mayon- 
naise, 
In place of oysters. Blue Points fricasseed a dozen ways. 
And orange Roley Poley, float, and peach meringue, 

alas. 
Enough to wreck a stomach that is made of plated 

brass ! 
The good old things have passed away, in silent, sad 

retreat ; 
We've lots of highfalutin things, but nothing much to 

eat. 
And while I never say a word, and always pleasant 

look, 
You bet I've had dyspepsia since my daughter's learned 

to cook. 



The Complete Cook Book. 1 1 



OUR MARKETS. 



Our markets contain an abundant supply of poultry 
and game of an exceptionally fine quality. For 
superior and palatable chickens we are recommended 
to those raised about the creameries of New Jersey. 
The hand-rfed geese and ducks of Rhode Island rival 
in flavor and delicacy the celebrated Caneton-de- 
Rouen, while the American turkeys are famous the 
world over. To give any adequate idea of the quantity 
of game which comes from the vast feeding-grounds of 
this country, or to enumerate substantially every form 
in which, during the different seasons, game appears 
in market, would require too much space. 

No game is more highly prized or more eagerly 
sought after in Europe than our American canvas- back 
ducks, grouse, and wild turkeys. It has become part 
of our history that during the late war twenty thousand 
turkeys were shipped by one firm in New York City to 
supply a Thanksgiving dinner to an army; while at 
present so plentiful is the supply that but a few days 
would be required to secure double that number. 

Near Rhode Isla.nd, on one farm of about fifty acres, 
twenty thousand geese, and as many ducks, are fat- 
tened annually for market. In Vermont and other 
cold localities during December, when turkeys are full 
grown and fattest, hundreds of tons of them are dressed, 
frozen hard in boxes, and preserved in that condition 
for use in the spring and summer months ; when freshly 
killed, turkeys are tough and unpalatable. Unless 
well experienced, the purchaser would do better to leave 
the selection of poultry and game to some reliable 
dealer, rather than depend upon "signs," which are at 
times deceiving. 



12 The Complete Cook Book. 

Spring chickens appear in market about May; those 
hatched in incubators come somewhat earlier. They 
are very small, weighing about a pound each, and im- 
prove in flavor and richness as they increase in size. 
Tender chickens may be had almost the whole year, 
but they are not plentiful during the spring months. 

Capons are good from December until April. 

Young turkeys are first killed in September; they 
are full grown and fattest in December, and remain 
good until spring, when they are superseded by frozen 
turkeys. 

Geese and ducks are first brought to market in June, 
and, if they have been properly fed, are a great deli- 
cacy. They may be had through the summer, autumn, 
and winter months. Geese are called "green" until 
they are three or four months old. 

Guinea-fowls are best in summer and autumn, when 
young and fat. 

Squabs are in market the whole year. 

The laws for killing and selling game vary some- 
what in the different States, and sometimes in the 
different counties of the same State. Reference is made 
principally in regard to the New York City markets. 
So great are the facilities for forwarding quickly by 
rail and steamer, that supplies of game are easily ob- 
tained from long distances ; and birds killed in southern 
Texas, or other remote places, may be served perfectly 
fresh on New York tables a few days later. The flight 
of birds is greatly controlled by the weather. Au 
early or late season, or a wet or dry one, or even a cold 
wave, may hasten or retard them, and make game 
plentiful or scarce, fat or poor; but an abundant supply 
of all kinds of game in its best condition is generally 
to be had in the months it is in season, as follows : 

Ruffed grouse, commonly called partridges, are in 
season from September 1 to February 1. 

Pinnated grouse, commonly called prairie chickens, 
from September 1 to February 1. 

Quails, from November 1 to February 1, 

Woodcock are in the market from August 1 to Feb- 
ruary 1, and are fattest in October. 

English snipe appear in the spring, and again in the 



The Complete Cook Book. 13 

autumn, when they are in their best condition, and are 
to be had in smaller quantities during the winter. 

Yellow-legged snipe, robin or red-breasted snipe, 
dowicher and black-breasted or winter snipe, also com- 
mon snipe, are abundant in the spring, and again from 
July through October, when they are best. 

Upland, grass, or gray plover are in market through 
the spring and summer months, and are fattest in 
August and September. 

Doe-birds are to be had at about the same time. 
They are plover of a larger size, and are considered not 
inferior to any other. 

Golden plover, or frost-birds, are plentiful in the 
spring, and are in fine condition in September and 
October. 

Sora, or Virginia rail, are best in September and 
October. 

Keed-birds, or rice-birds, become very fat in August 
and September. When found among the reeds of New 
Jersey they are called reed-birds, and rice-birds when 
from the wild rice fields of the South. 

. Rabbits and hares are in season from November 1 to 
February 1. 

Venison is in market from August 1 to January 1 
only, and is good during that time. 

Antelope may be generally had through the autumn 
and winter months. 

Wild pigeons appear in the spring and autumn, but 
no longer in such immense numbers as formerly. It is 
only possible to obtain them for market when their 
"nestings" are near a railroad, which facilitates their 
quick shipment. The young birds (wild squabs), taken 
from the nest, make a most delicious broil. 

Wild ducks, swan, geese, and brant are in season 
from September 1 to May 1. 



14 The Complete Cook Book. 



MEASURES AND WEIGHTS. 



Siirty drops make one small teaspoonful. 

Two teaspoonfuls equal one desaertspoonful. 

Four teaspoonfuls or two dessertspoonfuls equal one 

tablespoonful. 
Four tablespoonfuls equal one wineglassful. 
Two wineglasses equal one gill. 
Two gills equal one coffee-cup. 
Two coffee-cups equal one pint liquid or one pound of 

dry material. 
Four gills make one pint. 
Two pints make one quart. 
Four quarts make one gallon. 
Two ordinary tumblerfuls make one pint liquid. 
One coffee-cup equals one-half pint liquid or one-half 

pound dry material — viz., sugar, salt, meal, fruit, 

meats. 
One heaping tablespoonful of sugar or salt weighs one 

ounce. 
Two round tablespoonfuls of flour weigh one ounce. 
Four cupfuls of sifted flour weigh one pound. 
Two cupfuls of meal weigh one pound. 
One pint or two coffee-cupfuls of oatmeal, cracked 

wheat, or coarse grains weigh one pound. 
Two coffee-cups of meat (or a pint measure) packed 

solid weigh one pound. 
One pint of liquid weighs one pound. 
Five heaping tablespoonfuls of flour equal one cupful. 
Seven heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar or salt equal one 

cupful. 
One coffee-cupful of butter packed solid is one-half 

pound. 



The Complete Cook Book. 15 

Four saltspoonfuls of liquid equal one teaspoonful. 

Four teaspoonfuls, of liquid equal one tablespoonful. 

Three teaspoonfuls of dry material equal one table- 
spoonful. 

Four tablespoonfuls of liquid equal one wineglass, or 
one-half gill, or one-fourth cup. 

Two gills equal one cup, or one-half pint. 

Sixteen tablespoonfuls of liquid equal one cup. 

Twelve tablespoonfuls of dry material equal one cup. 

Eight heaping tablespoonfuls of dry material equal one 
cup. 

Four cups of liquid equal one quart. 

Four cups of flour equal one pound or one quart. 

Two cups of solid butter equal one pound. 

One-half cup of butter equals one-fourth pound. 

Two cups of granulated sugar equal one pound. 

Two and one-half cups of powdered sugar equal one 
pound. 

Three cups of meal equal one pound. 

One pint of milk or water equals one pound. 

One pint of chopped meat packed solidly equals one 
pound. 

Nine large eggs, ten medium eggs, equal one pound. 

One round tablespoonful of butter equals one ounce. 

One heaping tablespoonful of butter equals two ounces 
or one-fourth cup. 

Butter the size of an egg equals two ounces or one- 
fourth cup. 

Two round tablespoonfuls of coffee equal one ounce. 

Two round tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar equal one 
ounce. 

One tablespoonful of liquid equal one-half ounce. 

One bottle S. M. wine equals three cups, or forty-eight 
tablespoonfuls. 

One bottle brandy equals one and one-half cups, or 
twenty-four tablespoonfuls. 

One small bottle Foss' extract equals one-fourth cup 
scant, or three tablespoonfuls. 

One small bottle Foss' extract equals twelve teaspoon- 
fuls. 

One flask of olive oil equals one and one-third cups, or 
twenty tablespoonfuls. 



i6 The Complete Cook Book. 

A speck of cayenne pepper is what you can take up on 
the point of a penknife or on a quarter-inch 
square surface. 

A pinch of salt or spice is about a saltspoonful. 

A pinch of hops is one-fourth of a cup. 

N. B. — I find that one tablespoonful of salt is equal to 
one heaping tablespoonful of sugar, 

TABLE OF PROPORTIONS. 

One scant measure of liquid to three full measures of 

flour, for bread. 
One sca"nt measure of liquid to two full measures of 

flour, for muflSns. 
One scant measure of liquid to one full measure of 

flour, for batters. 
One-half cup of yeast, or one-fourth of compressed 

yeastcake, to one pint of liquid. 
One even teaspoonful of soda and two full teaspoonfuls 

of cream tartar to one quart of flour. 
Three heaping or four even teaspoonfuls of baking 

powder to one quart of flour. 
One teaspoonful of soda to one pint of sour milk. 
One teaspoonful of soda to one cup of molasses. 
One saltspoonful of salt to one quart; of milk for cus- 
tards. 
One teaspoonful of extract to one quart of custard. 
One saltspoonful of salt to one loaf of sponge cake. 
One teaspoonful of extract to one loaf of plain cake. 
One saltspoonful of spice to one loaf of plain cake. 
One teaspoonful of salt to one quart of soup stock or 

two quarts of flour. 
One saltspoonful of white pepper to one quart of soup 

stock. 
One teaspoonful of mixed b^rbs to one quart of soup 

stock. 
One tablespoonful of each chopped vegetable to one 

quart of soup stock. 



The Complete Cook Book. 17 



SOUPS. 



GENERAL REMARKS. 

The puree or cream is quite a thick soup, very pala- 
table and substantial. It is made out of fowl, game, 
vegetables, or fish. In every case you have first to cook 
well the particular materials until tender and to sift 
them through a sifter to obtain quite a clear pap; to 
which you add what the French cooks call a "liaison," 
binding, to unite all the parts together. This is made 
with yolks, cream and butter (also sometimes flour or 
starch), and dnnH forget 

1st. That this "liaison" should be added only when 
ready to serve. 

2d. That the saucepan shall be placed on a corner 
of the range and that you should add some of the hot 
pap to your "liaison" before you pour it in the sauce- 
pan. 

3d. That you should never allow a soup to boil after 
you have poured in a "liaison." 

Soups must have time to cook, and should always boil 
gently that the meat may become tender, and give out 
its juices. Allow a quart of water and a teaspoonful of 
salt for each pound of meat. Soup meat must always 
be put down in cold water. Skim well before it comes 
to the boiling point, and again skim off superfluous fat 
before putting in the vegetables. The vegetables most 
used in soups are carrots, leeks, parsley, turnips, celery, 
tomatoes, okras, cabbage, cauliflower, peas and pota- 
toes. 

In cooking barley for use iu soup it will be well to 
cook in a separate dish until practically done, and then 
turn into the soup. One great fault with most cooks is 



1 8 The Complete Cook Book, 

a failure to cook barley enough. When not done it is 
hard and unpalatable; when properly cooked it is a 
most desirable addition to most meat soups. 

One large leek, two carrots, one bunch of parsley, 
two turnips and a potato, will be enough for one pot of 
soup. One head of celery, two leeks, two turnips, and 
five or six small potatoes will be enough another time. 

Six tomatoes skinned, the juice strained from the 
seeds, a leek, a bunch of parsley, and six potatoes will 
answer for another style; a carrot, some cabbage, toma- 
toes, and potatoes will do another time, Okra alone is 
vegetable enough for a gumbo, unless onion is liked 
with it. Green peas, lettuce, and new potatoes are 
enough for spring lamb soup. Vermicelli and macaroni 
are for chicken, lamb, or veal soup, with the addition 
of onion if liked. 

It is well to prepare the vegetables when the meat is 
put over the fire to boil ; allow a quart of water to a 
pound of meat. Trim and scrape carrots, then cut or 
grate them. Wash parsley and cut it small. Pare 
turnips and cut them in slices a quarter of an inch 
thick. Cut leeks in thick slices. Cut celery in half 
lengths; the delicate green leaves give a fine flavor to 
the soup. 

Pour boiling water on tomatoes, which will cause 
the skins to peel ofiE easily; when cool, squeeze out the 
seeds, and reserve the juice for use in soup. 

Shave cabbage in thin slices. Slice okra for gumbo 
or okra soup. Pare the potatoes, shell the peas, and 
cut off green corn from the cob, for all these add fine 
flavor to soup. 

To color soup brown, use browned flour or a little 
burnt sugar. Spinach leaves give a fine green color. 
Pound the leaves, tie them in a cloth, and squeeze out 
all the juice, which add to the soup five minutes be- 
fore serving. This is also used to give color to mock- 
turtle soup. 

You may color soup red by putting in the strained 
juice of tomatoes, or the whole tomato, if it is run 
through a sieve; grated carrot gives a fine amber color; 
okra gives a pale green. 

For white soups, which are made of veal, lamb, and 



The Complete Cook Book. 19 

chicken, white vegetables are best, such as rice, pearl 
barley, vermicelli, and macaroni ; the thickening should 
then be made of unbrowned flour. 

Always buy okra when it is plentiful, and cheap in 
the summer, slice it thin, lay it on large dishes and dry 
it for winter use. It is always delicious in vegetable 
soups. 

AH cream soups should be served with squares of 
bread fried brown in butter. 

Clear soups should be served with farina cake, egg 
balls or poached eggs. 

Gumbo should always be served with plain boiled 
rice. 

Sliced hard-boiled eggs are nice in soups. 

STOCK FOR ALL KINDS OF SOUP. 

Spread your soup pot with four tablespoonfuls of 
butter, lay on it next the meat, either a knuckle of veal 
or beef (or both together for the finest kind of stock). 
Add a cup of cold water, two tablespoonfuls of salt, 
three middle-sized onions with two cloves in each, one 
turnip, one carrot, and one-half a head of celery (if you 
have it). Put the cover on the pot, and occasionally 
stir it, until the bottom is covered with a whitish glaze, 
then fill up the pot with cold water, and when upon the 
point of boiling draw it to the side to simmer long 
enough to jelly. Strain while hot, and vary as suits 
yourself when serving. To two gallons of water about 
six pounds of veal or seven pounds of beef is the proper 
allowance. To make the stock very clear, put it, after 
straining, over the fire, skim well, and when boiling 
have ready the whites of three eggs whisked well in a 
cup of cold water. Add to these a cup of the boiling 
stock, still beating; then whisk the stock while pouring 
in the eggs, continue the beating until it is almost on 
the boil, remove it from the fire, let it remain a few 
minutes, when strain. 

WHITE BROTH. 

Two large whole and well-scraped carrots, one large 
whole neeled turnip, one large whole peeled onion, one 



20 The Complete Cook Book. 

cleaned parsley root, two cleaned leeks (optional), four 
leaves of cleaned celery. First select a good knuckle 
of fine white veal with the scraps of meat, including 
the bone; put in vessel and cover completely with cold 
water, adding one tablespoonful of salt, and allow it 
to come to a boil, skimming clean as scum arises (this 
is very important) ; then add the above ingredients, and 
boil slowly for about six hours on back of stove ; skim 
the grease and impurities as they arise, and after the 
specified time, and all is skimmed clean, strain through 
cheese cloth into stone crock ; cover the mouth of crock 
. with cotton batting, and keep in cool place. As this 
sauce is used in making soups and sauces, it would be 
well to make up a good quantity to have ready when 
necessary. 

BEEF SOUP. 

Four pounds of the best part of the shin of the beef to 
three quarts of cold water. Let it come to a strong 
boil. Skim until no scum rises. Scrape and wash 
two large carrots and slice them. Add two large 
onions, sticking cloves in one of them ; one tablespoon- 
ful of salt, parsley, one-half a turnip; if you have 
celery, the tops or waste pieces improve the soup very 
much, or a teaspoonf ul of celery seed tied in a fine piece 
of muslin. When the soup boils up, set it on the back 
of the stove, where it will simmer constantly for six 
hours. Then strain the onions, and put them in the 
oven until they are black, and add to the soup to give a 
nice color. It is best to make the soup the day before, 
as you can better strain all the fat off. When the soup 
is boiled enough strain it through a hair sieve; and 
when ready to use, boil rice or vermicelli in it for 
a few minutes. 

SOUPE A LA REINE. 

Boil two chickens in water with thyme, sweet bay 
and parsley. When cooked (not to pieces), take them 
out of the water, cut up the breasts in small pieces the 
size of dice; fry a few pieces of onion without coloring 
them, add a little flour and the water that the chickens 



The Complete Cook Book. 21 

were boiled in, a little rice and the balance of the 
chickens, meat and bones, chopped fine. Boil all 
together, and when thoroughly cooked strain through a 
colander and put back to boil, stirring constantly. 
When it cornea to a boil remove it from the fire and 
add the beaten yolk? of a few eggs and a little cold 
milk, stirring continually. Keep the soup in "bain- 
marie." When ready to serve put the small pieces of 
the breasts in a soup dish and pour the soup over them. 

ORIGINAL BRAIN SOUP— DELICIOUS. 

Wash and skin two sets of calf brains, and plump in 
ice water one hour. Now plunge them into one quart 
of boiling water with two tablespoonfulsof lemon juice 
and one tablespoonful of salt. Boil gently thirty min- 
utes. In another stewpan put one quart of sweet milk, 
one generous tablespoonful of butter, one thin slice of 
breakfast bacon, salt and white pepper to taste. Heat 
this, and when the brains are done, chop them up and 
pour the milk into the stewpan with the brains and the 
water in which they are cooked. Let all come to a boil 
and pour into a tureen over picnic crackers, and serve 
at once. 

SISTER MOLLIE'S TOMATO SOUP. 

One quart of tomatoes, one quart of water, one-half 
cup of rolled cracker crumbs, one tablespoonful of 
butter. Season with pepper, and salt to taste. When 
well boiled, say three-quarters of an hour, add one 
quart of hot milk, and just before taking off the fire 
put one- ha If teaspoonful of soda in the soup tureen and 
pour boiling soup over it and stir well. Sometimes 
meat and barley are added with less tomatoes. A 
small potato and chopped onion can also be added for a 
change. 

PUREE OF CHICKEN. 

One large chicken, a knuckle of veal, one carrot, one 
onion with two cloves stuck in it, a teaspoonful of pars- 
ley, two leeks, salt and white pepper to taste. Put all in a 



22 ihe Complete Cook Book. 

soup pot to boil gently; skim well. When the chicken 
ia done remove it and the veal. Put back the skin and 
bones and simmer two hours. Chop the chicken fine 
and mash it well and return it to the simmering broth 
and stir well for ten minutes. Then rub it well through 
a sieve. Return the puree to a saucepan ; stir steadily 
and heat without boiling. Finish with one pint of 
boiling cream and one-third cup of butter. Serve with 
small squares of bread fried in butter. The above will 
serve eight people. 

CABBAGE SOUP. 

One thin slice of bacon, one teacup grated carrots, 
one pint of cabbage stock, one bay leaf. Place in a 
soup pot and cook I wenty-five minutes. Skim well and 
take out bay leaf. Now add : one-fourth teaspoon of 
pepper and one teaspoon of salt. Rub together one table- 
spoonful of butter and one tablespoonful of flour; add 
to one pint of hot milk, and pour into your soup. Let 
come to boiling point, and serve. 

SISTER MOLLIE'S TOMATO BISQUE. 

One quart of tomatoes, two quarts of cold water, 
three tablespoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of sugar, 
one pint of sweet milk, one-half tablespoonful of butter; 
salt and pepper to taste. Put tomatoes and water to 
boil until very soft ; then strain through a sieve and 
add salt and pepper. Place again on the fire and boil, 
adding the flour (mixed smoothly in water), next the 
butter, then the sugar, and lastly, the hot milk. Place 
one scant teaspoonful of baking soda in the tureen, and 
when the soup has come to a boiling point pour it in 
and mix up well. Serve quickly. 

OKRA SOUP. 

Chop and fry until brown one pound of round steak, 
with two generous tablespoonfuls of butter and one 
onion. Into a soup kettle now put one pint of okra, 
cut in very thin slices, and add two quarts of boiling 
salted water. When tender add the steak and onions 



The Complete Cook Book. 23 

and boil slowly two hours. Rub together one table- 
spoonful of butter and two tablespoonfuls of flour and 
add one quart of hot milk. Pour this into the soup 
kettle and season with white pepper. Let come to boil- 
ing point and serve at once. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Boil two bunches of fresh, tender asparagus in water 
with one slice of onion and one teaspoonful of salt, 
thirty minutes. Throw away the onion, remove the 
asparagus, and cut off the tender part and pound it to a 
paste with a little water. Add to it a lump of butter 
rolled in flour and half a teaspoonful of sugar. Mix 
over the fire until it melts. Now add all to the boiling 
water, in which the asparagus was cooked. Then beat 
the yolk of one egg in half a pint of cream or milk and 
add to the soup. Season with salt and pepper, and as 
soon as it comes to boiling point strain and serve. Cut 
one stalk of asparagus in thin slices and add the last 
thing. 

MAMMY SILVY'S NOODLE SOUP. 

Put a soup bone weighing two or three pounds into 
four quarts of cold water, and boil a half hour. Add 
one-half pint of tomatoes, two small Irish potatoes, two 
small carrots, one sprig of parsley, one small onion, 
one tablespoonful of rico and two tablespoonfuls of 
okra; add salt and pepper to taste, and boil two or 
three hours. Now remove and strain. Place again on 
the stove, and add one-fourth pound of home-made 
noodles or vermicelli, and let it boil until tender. This 
is pretty served with whole small tomatoes that have 
been skinned. Place one in each plate and pour soup 
over it. 

GUMBO. 

Cut up one fat chicken, roll it in salt, pepper and 
flour, and fry it a nice light brown, using lard as if for 
£ricassee. Put into a soup pot three quarts of boiling 
water j and add the chicken when done; in the same 
lard where your fried your chicken, fry one slice of 



24 The Complete Cook Book» 

ham and a thin slice of breakfast bacon, and add to the 
soup. Now fry one generous quart of fresh green okra 
sliced and sprinkled with a little flour, and one-fourth 
pint of green corn. Then add to the soup with one 
quart can of tomatoes. Boil from two to three hours. 
Seasons with red pepper and salt, and thicken with a 
tablespoonful of flour, wet in a little cold milk. 
Oysters, crabs or shrimps should be added when in sea- 
son. Serve with boiled rice. 

GEEEN CORN SOUP. 

One pint of grated corn, which will require eight or 
ten ears. Sufficient water to cover the corn cobs. One 
pint of sweet milk or cream, a tiny pinch of soda, one 
teaspoonful of salt and one thin slice of onion, a pinch 
of white pepper, one tablespoonful of flour, one table- 
spoonful of butter and yolks of two eggs. After grat- 
ing the corn, cover the cobs with cold water, and boil 
slowly for half an hour. Take out the cobs, add the 
corn, and cook until soft and tender. Heat the milk in 
which the soda has been dissolved, and thicken with 
the butter and flour, add sugar and seasoning to the 
cream or milk. Allow it to boil up once, then remove 
from the fire, add the beaten yolks of eggs, stirring 
briskly ; and a cupful of whipped cream is a great im- 
provement added just before serving. 

CELERY SOUP— ENOUGH TO SERVE TO SIX 
PEOPLE. 

Take the outside stalks of six celery stalks. Wash 
them and cut up fine, and after adding enough cold 
water to cover it, allow it to boil until tender enough to 
rub through a colander. Into another saucepan make a 
white sauce of two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch or flour 
and one generous tablespoonful of butter. Bring one 
pint of milk to a boiling point and stir in the white 
sauce slowly, but thoroughly. Now strain the water off 
the celery, and add to the milk. Season with salt and 
pepper and strain through a sieve. Add the well beaten 
yolks of two eggs quickly. Let it heat once more and 



The Complete Cook Book. 25 

serve with stale bread cut in dice and fried brown in 
butter. A cupful of cream added just before serving 
makes a great improvement. 

ONION SOUP. 

Peel and slice twelve medium-sized onions, and fry 
a light brown in butter. When done put them into a 
soup pot with one pint of hot sweet milk and one quart 
of boiling water, one thin slice of breakfast bacon, one- 
half teaspoonful of sugar, salt and white pepper to 
taste. Simmer slowly one hour and strain through a 
sieve. Add the beaten yolks of three eggs, one table- 
spoonful of butter and one cup of cream. Let come to 
boiling point and serve at once. 

CONSOMME. 

Two chickens, soaked in cold water and' put into a 
soup kettle, with one small onion with two cloves stuck 
in it, one bay leaf, one head of celery or a pinch of 
celery seeds, one sprig of parsley, one piece of mace, 
one sprig of thyme, one large or two small carrots, two 
turnips, three quarts of cold water, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, and salt to taste. Let boil three or four hours, 
or until tender. Skim off the fat, strain through a 
sieve, and put in a cold place to cool. When cold re- 
move the fat, and it will be ready to use. When you 
haven't chicken two pounds each of veal and beef may 
be substituted. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

Take a two-pound beef bone and one slice of ham. 
Place in a soup pot and pour over it one gallon of cold 
water. Now add one pint of split peas or small white 
beans, two carrots, two turnips, one stalk of celery 
chopped in pieces, one sprig of thyme, and black and 
red pepper to taste. Boil for two hours, or until the 
vegetables are soft, and remove from the fire. Then 
strain the soup through a sieve and add one teaspoon- 
ful of butter and calt to taste, and boil five minutes and 
serve with toasted bread. 



26 The Complete Cook Book. 

POTATO PUREE. 

Three or four large Irish potatoes, one quart of water, 
one pint of milk, one small onion chopped fine, one 
stalk of celery, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half tea- 
spoonful of white pepper, one-half teaspoonful of celery 
salt, one-half tablespoonful of flour, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter and one sprig of parsley. Peel and boil pota- 
toes until very soft, drain and mash and beat light. 
Add onions and celery to milk; when boiling, add the 
rest of seasoning and pour on the potatoes. Pour through 
sieve and put on to boil again. Mix your melted but- 
ter and flour together and stir in the puree. Let boil 
five minutes and serve. If too thick thin out with hot 
milk. 

POTATO SOUP. 

To make potato soup, use the following recipe: 
Scrub and put into a pan twelve medium-sized potatoes, 
with just enough water to cover them, and boil gently 
until they are done. Pour off the water, and when 
they are dry, peel and pass them through a sieve. 
Now melt an ounce and a half of butter in a saucepan, 
slice into it two onions, minced finely, a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, and a pinch of celery seed. Cover, 
and let the contents steam gently for fifteen minutes; 
add the potatoes and enough water to make a smooth, 
firm batter, then enough milk to reduce to the consist- 
ency of cream ; let it boil up once, season with pepper 
and salt, and serve. This is one of the mo-3t delicious 
yet economical soups that come to table. 

PUREE OF GREEN PEAS. 

Obtain one can of American peas. After straining, 
put them in a saucepan, adding a half slice of raw 
ham, an onion (small), stuck with a few clovei, cover 
with one-half gallon of good beef broth (water may be 
substituted) and let boil for an hour. Then remove 
the ham and onions and press the soup through a fine 
sieve; put to boil again, adding one-quarter of a pint of 
hot cream, season with salt and pepper. Beat the yolk 



The Complete Cook Book. 27 

of an egg with a quarter of a cupful of cream, and stir 
the mixture briskly into the soup, putting in also two 
level tablespoonfuls of good butter; stir again until the 
butter is melted, and thoroughly mixed. Sprinkle over 
the soup a little chopped parsley and it will be ready 
to serve. 

EGG SOUP. 

. To make a Lenten egg soup, put one quart of fresh 
milk, with a part of an onion, over the fire in a double 
boiler. Blend together one tablespoonful of butter with 
a scant spoonful of flour; moisten this with a little of 
the hot milk before stirring into the boiling milk. 
Season with salt and cayenne pepper. Let the mix- 
ture boil up once, and then strain into a heated tureen. 
Meanwhile furnish as many eggs as are needed, place 
them on the top of the soup, and scatter a little chopped 
parsley over the whole. When serving this soup use 
great care not to break the eggs. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Gently simmer two quarts of shelled peas in sufBcient 
water to cook, leaving almost no juice when tender. 
Rub through a colander, moistening if necessary with 
a little cold milk. Add to the sifted peas an equal 
quantity of rich milk and a small onion cut in halves. 
Boil all together five or ten minutes until the soup is 
delicately flavored, then remove the onion with a skim- 
mer; add salt if desired, and serve. If preferred, a 
half-cup of thin cream may be added just before serv- 
ing. Celery may be used in place of the onion or both 
may be omitted. 

CREAM PEA SOUP. 

Soak three-quarters of a pint of dried peas over night 
in a quart of water; in the morning put to cook in boil- 
ing water, cover closely and let them simmer gently 
four or five hours, or until the peas are very tender and 
well disintegrated ; then rub through a colander to re- 
move the skins. If the peas are very dry, add a little 



28 The Complete Cook Book. 

water or milk occasionally to moisten them and facili- 
tate the sifting. Just before the peas are done, prepare 
potatoes enough to make a pint and a half after being 
cut in thin slices. Cook the potatoes until tender in a 
small amount of water, and rub them, through a col- 
ander. Add the potatoes thus prepared to the sifted 
peas, and milk enough to make three and one-half pints 
in all. Beturn to the fire, and add a small head of 
celery cut in finger lengths, and let the whole simmer 
together ten or fifteen minutes, until flavored. Remove 
the celery with a fork, add salt and a cup of thin 
cream. This should make about two quarts of soup. 
If preferred, the peas may be cooked without soaking. 
It will, however, require a little longer time. 

TOMATO SOUP WITH VEGETABLES— VERY 

FINE. 

Cut small, three carrots, three heads of celery, four 
onions and two turnips; put them into a saucepan with 
a tablespoonful of butter, a slice of ham and a half-cup 
of water; let them simmer gently for an hour; then if 
a very rich soup is desired add to the vegetables two or 
three quarts of good soup stock, made by boiling a beef 
bone in three quarts of water until the meat is tender. 
Let all boil together for half an hour, and then add ten 
or twelve ripe tomatoes and a half-dojsen whole peppers. 
It should cook for another hour or so. It must then be 
strained through a sieve or coarse cloth. Serve with 
toasted or fried bread cut in bits in the tureen. This 
is an elegant family soup, particularly nice in summer 
when the vegetables are fresh. 

CHICKEN GUMBO WITH OYSTERS. 

Take a young chicken, or' the half of a grown one; 
cut it up, roll it in salt, pepper and flour, and fry it a 
nice brown, using lard or drippings as if for fricassee. 
Cut up a quart of fresh green okras, and take out the 
chicken and fry the okra in the same lard. When well 
browned return the chicken to the pot and boil. Add 
to it a large slice of ham ; a quarter of a pound will be 



The Complete Cook Book. 29 

abont right for this gumbo. Pour on to the chicken, 
ham and okra, half a gallon of boiling water, and let it 
boil down to three pints. Ten minutes before serving 
pour into the boiling soup two dozen fine oysters with 
half a pint of their liquor. Let it come to a good boil, 
and serve it with well-boiled rice. 

CREAM OF TOMATOES. 

To make six gallons of cream of tomatoes, pre- 
pare in the ordinary way two gallons of tomato puree — 
using the fresh tomatoes, for the strained goods contain 
too much foreign acid. Boil down till thick; season 
with the usual spices, omitting the roux. Make four 
gallons of light Bechamel sauce. Half an hour before 
serving, add to the puree two ounce? of good baking 
soda; after the effervescence has subsided, whip the 
puree into the Bechamel. Serve with a sprinkling of 
chopped parsley to get the red and green effect, or, if 
preferred, with croutons. There is no danger of this 
cream being spoiled by curdling. It will even remain 
sweet over night. 

TURTLE SOUP. 

The turtle must be killed over nigbt and hung up to 
bleed. In the morning carefully separate the shells, 
taking care not to break the gall; put the eggs, fins and 
flesh into the cold water, removing carefully the black 
skin from the fins. Put the turtle to boil in twice as 
much water as you wish soup, to allow for boiling 
away. Let it boil for two hoiu-s, skimming it well; 
then add six slices of nice ham and a quarter of a pound 
of fresh butter, and let it boil three hours more. About 
an iiour before it is done add one gill of rice, one gill 
of flour creamed with a heaping teaspoonful of butter, 
one onion minced fine, two stalks of celery chopped up, 
a little bunch of thyme, half a teaspoon each of cloves 
and allspice. Cook for an hour more. 

MY MOTHER'S OYSTER SOUP. 

Into a double boiler put one quart of sweet milk. 
Rub together one tablespoonful of butter and one table- 
spoonful of cornstarch or flour. Stir into hot milk and 



3© The Complete Cook Book. 

add a thin slice of breakfast bacon and one stalk of 
celery. Let boil. Pour a few drops of lemon juice or 
vinegar over one pint of oysters and bring them to a 
boiling point in their own liquor. Now drain, and if 
they should curdle wash them in a little cold water and 
turn at once into the milk. The oyster liquor must also 
be skimmed and added to the milk. Season with salt 
and pepper and serve immediately. Break up snow- 
flake' crackers in a.soup tureen and pour ^oyster soup 
over them before sending to the table, and remove bacon 
and celery. 

OYSTER BISQUE. 

Plump and ruflSe two dozen medium-sized oysters by 
dropping them into a hot frying pan, and turning until 
plumped and ruffled on both sides. Skim out the 
oysters, add to the liquor half a pint of cream, a bay 
leaf, two blades of mace, a sprinkle of cayenne, a salt- 
spoonful of paprika, the same amount of salt, and a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice. Skim the liquor thoroughly 
when it boils, return the oysters chopped rather fine, 
and as soon as they boil again add one heaping table- 
spoonful of flour moistened with cold milk; stir con- 
stantly for five minutes, add a tablespoonful of butter, 
and when it melts serve immediately. 

OYSTER SOUP— NEW ORLEANS. 

Chop an onion very fine and fry until tender in one 
large tablespoonful of butter. Stir in one tablespoon- 
ful of flour until smooth. Boil the oysters and add the 
strained liquor to the onion and one cup of hot milk. 
Cook ten minutes. Season with salt and cayenne 
pepper, and parsley, and just before removing from the 
fire add the oysters. 

NEW ORLEANS CRAB GUMBO— VERY PINE. 

Into a soup pot put one tablespoonful of lard, and 
when hot fry until tender one onion sliced thin. Stir 
into it one large tablespoonful of flour until smooth, 
then add one teaspoonful of chili pepper, a slice of ham! 



The Complete Cook Book. 31 

your crabs cut in pieces, a can of okra and a quart of 
stock. Season with thyme, bay leaves, red and black 
pepper, and salt to taste, and let it simmer until done. 

CLAM STEW. 

Steam clams in their shells for five minutes. When 
the shells begin to open take from the fire and open 
them, being careful to save the juice. Make by the 
same receipt as for oyster soup. 

OXTAIL STEW. 

An ox tail makes a very rich stew, and they may be 
purchased cheaply, as a rule. It may not be generally 
known that we are indebted to the Huguenot refugees, 
who went to England after the revocation of the edict 
of Nantes, for finding out the virtues of the tail, head, 
and feet of animals. Before that time they were not 
considered worth the trouble of preparation; but these 
poor people, often distressed for food, used to buy them 
for a trifle, and taught the English many of the nourish- 
ing and tasty dishes which they now enjoy. An ox 
tail is so full of flavor that it requires no vegetable 
stewed with it but an onion. It should be cut into 
lengths and fried ; the onion, cut into slices, may also 
be fried, because it will color the gravy so nicely; pep- 
per and salt are added ; then the pieces of tail are put 
into a Nottingham jar covered with water, and stewed 
in the oven very slowly three hours. Before serving, 
the gravy may be thickened with flour stirred with cold 
water, and just a dash of ketchup; an ounce of flour 
will thicken a quart of gravy. The stew can be served 
on a hot dish, garnished with sippets of toast. Oxtail 
soup is very much the same as stew, inasmuch as the 
pieces of tail are served in the soup, but more water 
must be allowed. 

BKUNSWICK STEW. 

Take two chickens, or three or four squirrels, or a 
twenty-five-cent shank of beef. Let them boil in 
water. Cook one pint of butter beans and one quart of 



32 The Complete Cook Book. 

tomatoes, one-half pint of potatoes cooked and mashed 
■with the meat. When done, add one dozen ears corn, 
one dozen large tomatoes and one pound butter. Take 
out chicken, squirrel or beef, cut in small pieces and 
put hack; one loaf of bread and two slices of middling 
are an improvement. Season with salt and pepper, 
and cook until it is well done and thick enough to be 
beaten with a fork. 

BRUNSWICK STEW. 

About four hours before dinner, put on two or three 
slices of bacon, two squirrels or chickens, one onion 
sliced, in one gallon water. Stew some time, then add 
one quart peeled tomatoes, two ears of grated com, 
three Irish potatoes sliced, and one handful butter 
beans, and part pod of red pepper. Stew altogether 
about one hour, till you can take out the bones. When 
done, put in one spoonful bread crumbs and one large 
spoonful butter. 

IRISH STEW. 

Take five pounds of tender lean beef, run it through 
a meat chopper, cover with cold water and cook slowly 
five hours. As soon as the meat has become thoroughly 
heated, stir in two tablespoonfuls of salt, and skim fer- 
quently. When the meat has simmered three hours 
addjOne-quarter pound of butter and a little red and white 
pepper. If the water has cooked out and the stew is 
too dry, add boiling water. Add butter by degrees, 
and stir in slowly until one pound has been used. Stir 
frequently while cooking. Add seasoning if necessary 
and serve hot. If desired to serve a second time, add 
a little cream to make it sufficiently moist. 

SCOTCH HUNTING POTTAGE. 

After a day's hunting over the hills in the southwest 
of the Lowland counties, nothing can be better appre- 
ciated by a true Scotchman than the following soup: 
Deer is the main ingredient of this pottage. Take the 
less bloody part of the breast and neck of a fresh killed 



The Complete Cook Book. 33 

deer, and also whatever bones may remain from the 
trimming of the saddle; let this simmer together with 
the following aromats: Mace, one-fifth; sage, two- 
fifths; fenouille, one-fifth; thyme, one- fifth; two car- 
rots and One onion stuck with four cloves, two leeks, 
one root of celery; put a little butter with the whole 
and cover it as tight as possible; let it steam until it 
beg.ns to fry, stir it until it gets to a golden color, then 
pour in three quarts of pure spring water, and one 
quart of ale, let come to a boil, skim well, season to 
taste, and let boil slowly for two hours; now prepare 
two pounds of lean, well-skinned and sinewed deer, 
cut this in dice shape, and also one-quarter pound of 
well cured ham. When the broth is nearly cooted 
smother gently the above, strain the broth over the 
meat, adding half a pint of cracked oats well soaked, 
let cook for fifteen minutes more, serve with toasted 
bread, the latter separate from the soup; add to the pot- 
tage before serving a little savory chopped fine. 

SOUP BALLS. 

Mix together cracker crumbs and butter into a firm 
round ball. Drop into the soup a short time before 
serving. This is very nice for chicken broth. 

NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

One tablespoonful water, one piiich of salt, one egg. 
Stir in all the flour it will take. Roll as thin as you 
possibly can, let it lay on the mixing board and dry, 
then roll it up like a jelly cake and slice off as thin as 
possible. They will cook in twenty minutes. 

HOME-MADE NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

Beat up one egg light, add a pinch of salt, one-half 
gill water; beat well. Sift in as much flour as can be 
worked in with a spoon, then sift in more flour with 
hand, stiff enough to roll, but be careful not to use too 
much. When rolled out, leave it to dry, after which, 
roll it up and shave. 



34 The Complete Cook Book. 

NOODLES. 

There are few things nicer than noodles when they 
are properly made. Make a stiff dough with two eggs, 
a little salt, and suflScient flour. Koll this out very- 
thin, shake on a little flour and rub it in; fold the 
dough over, and roll it up, after which cut it fine with 
a knife. Have ready a pot almost full of boiling 
water into which you have put a little salt. Drop the 
noodles in, and boil them for five or six hours. Pour 
the water off, and fry the noodles in plenty of butter, 
and they will be splendid. 

FARINA CAKE. 

Beat two eggs without separating with one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-quarter teaspoonful of pepper and 
stir in four tablespoonfuls of corn meal. Pour into a 
buttered pan one-quarter inch thick and fry on both 
sides. Cut into squares and serve with clear soups. 

EGG BALLS FOR CHICKEN BROTH. 

Chop chicken up fine, season with pepper, salt, but- 
ter and an egg; make into balls size of marbles, roll in 
as little flour as possible and drop them in the broth a 
few minutes before serving. 

LITTLE EGG BALLS. 

Take the yolks of three eggs that have been boiled 
twenty minutes, mash fine and add the raw yolk of one 
egg. Season with salt and a little red pepper. Roll 
into balls the size of marbles with as little flour as pos- 
sible, and either drop into a kettle of boiling water or 
fry carefully in butter and drop into soup. 



The Complete Cook Book. 35 



SHELL FISH. 



OYSTEES. 

The flavorings most favored for oysters are lemon 
juice, onion juice, parsley, bay leaf, celery, salt, 
cayenne, paprika, mace and 'nutmeg; but no dish should 
be so highly seasoned as to deprive the oyster of its indi- 
viduality. Raw oysters should always be served very 
cold, and if on the half shell (whether their own or 
silver) the latter should be sunk down in a plate of 
finely chopped ice and half a lemon placed in the cen- 
ter of the plate. 

SAUTEED OYSTERS. 

Prepare the oysters as for frying, drop two drops of 
lemon juice on each oyster, and sprinkle a little celery 
salt and white pepper over them. Heat a perfectly 
clean pancake griddle, drop a bit of butter on it, and 
as soon as it melts place one of the oysters on it. Pro- 
ceed in this way, leaving room to turn each over when 
brown on one side. When ready to turn drop a bit of 
butter close beside it and turn. These are far superior 
to ordinary fried oysters, and may be served for lunch- 
eon or supper, with celery or other salad. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Drain, plump and ruflBe the oysters; skim out the 
oysters, and season the liquid with salt, paprika, and a 
little ground mace. Rub one tablespoonful of flour 
into cold milk, stir it into the boiling liquid, add a 
tablespoonful of butter and the oysters. Butter a pud- 
ding dish, pour in one-third of the mixture, sprinkle 



36 The Complete Cook Book. 

over a layer of bread crumbs, a few bits of butter; coh- 
tinue in this way until the dish is ^filled, having bread 
crumbs and butter l^over the top. Celery salt may be 
substituted for mace if preferred. 

OYSTER FRICASSEE. 

Drain, plump and ruffle the oysters, skim out, and 
set where they will keep warm. Add an equal amount 
of milk to the liquid, and season with salt, pepper, and 
butter. To each pint of the boiling liquid add one 
tablespoonful of flour stirred into a little cold milk, 
and si;ir until it boils and is smooth. Add a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice, stir well, draw to the back where it 
will stop boiling, stir in the well-beaten yolks of two 
eggs, then the oysters; stir for two minutes, then turn 
into a hot dish, and serve with toasted and buttered 
Boston crackers or brown bread. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

Split and toast Boston crackers, and spread with but- 
ter in which lemon juice has been mixed. Drain, 
plump and ruffle the oysters in a hot, buttered frying 
pan; skim out the oysters and chop rather fine; skim 
the liquid and add an equal amount of milk ; season 
with butter, salt and paprika, and add the oysters. Do 
not let it boil, but as soon as the oysters are hot turn it 
over the prepared crackers and serve. 

OYSTERS FOR CHAFING DISH. 

Four dozen oysters, one-half pint of oyster liquor, four 
teaspoonfuls of cayenne, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonful of flour, one-half pint of cream, two- 
thirds teaspoonful of paprika, five egg yolks, one tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, five drops of celery extract and 
one tablespoonful of butter. Scald the oysters in their 
liquor until edges curl, then drain, saving the liquor; 
melt butter; add flour and stir smooth ; cook butter and 
flour until it froths; stir in the oyster liquor and cream; 
stir constantly until it boils; add seasoning and beaten 
yolks; cook a short time over boiling water, stirring 



The Complete Cook Book. ;^y 

constantly; add lemon juice and oysters. Serve with 
croutons of puff paste. 

OYSTER COCKTAILS— ORIGINAL. 

For each, one-half dozen or eight small Blue Points. 
Be sure to use shell oysters and have them cold and 
fresh. Strained juice of one-half lemon, one big table- 
spoonful of tomato ketchup, one-half teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce, one-half teaspoonful of grated 
horse radish, one-half teaspoonful of vinegar; make 
hot with Tobasco and green pepper sauce; salt to taste. 
Thin with oyster liquor (strained) ; add a little more 
or less of everything according to taste; mix one hour 
before time to serve and place on ice ; when ready for 
them put oysters in a deep glass, sprinkle with crushed 
ice, and fill with the liquid. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Take large or medium-sized oysters from lieir own 
liquor, dry them, and dip each oyster in flour or rolled 
cracker until it will hold no more, and drop them one 
by one into hot lard or olive oil, and fry. The fire must 
be moderate or the oysters will scorch before cooking 
through. They are also very nice rolled in corn meal. 
When brown take up and season with salt and pepper. 
Serve hot. Some prefer their oysters dipped in a batter 
made of one egg and one tablespoonful of milk, then 
rolled in equal portions of corn meal and flour. Serve 
with pickle. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS OR SCALLOPED 

CLAMS. 

One pint of solid oysters, one-third cup of melted 
butter, two cupf uls of cracker or bread crumbs ; strain 
the oyster liquor, and heat it ; add the melted butter 
with an equal quantity of milk or cream; season with 
salt and pepper; butter a shallow baking dish, put in a 
layer of crumbs, then a layer of oysters; season with 
two or three drops of lemon juice or vinegar; moisten 
each layer with the hot oyster liquor; put in another 



38 The Complete Cook Book. 

layer of crumbs and oysters and so on until your dish 
is full, with a thick layer of crumbs on top; moisten 
with oyster liquor, dot with butter, and lay a strip or 
two of nice breakfast bacon on top and bake to a golden 
brown. 

DEVILED OYSTERS. 

Drain one quart of oysters; chop thoroughly and sea- 
son with cayenne pepper, lemon juice, salt and yolks 
of two hard-boiled eggs, and yolks of two raw eggs 
beaten and stirred in ; one-half as much bread crumbs 
as you have oysters, and one large tablespoonful butter. 
Have ready one dozen deep shells, nicely cleaned, and 
fill them with the oysters ; sprinkle with bread crumbs, 
and bake in a few minutes. 

OYSTERS COOKED IN THE SHELLS. 

Wash and scrub the shells, and put them in a pan 
with the round side down (to hold the juice), and cook 
either in a hot oven, on the top of a hot stove, on a grid- 
iron over the coals, or in a steamer, ten to twenty min- 
utes. When the shells open, the oysters are done. 
Remove the upper shell; season the oyster on the lower 
shell with butter, pepper, salt and vinegar, and serve 
at once. Or take from the shells, put into a hot dish, 
season, and serve immediately. There is no other way 
of cooking the oyster in which the natural flavor is so 
fully developed. 

PIGS IN BLANKETS. 

Take as many large or medium-sized oysters as de- 
sired ; wash and dry them thoroughly ; pin each oyster 
in a thin slice of breakfast bacon with a wooden tooth- 
pick. Broil them until the bacon is crisp and brown • 
do not remove toothpicks ; s«rve hot on toast, garnished 
with watercress and poached eggs. 

CREAM OYSTERS IN THE SHELL. 

Place a saucepan with a cup of water, one of milk 
and one of cream, with a pinch of soda, in a kettle of 
hot water until it boils, when stir in two tablespoonfuls 



The Complete Cook Book. 39 

of butter and also a little pepper and salt. Eemove from 
fire and add two large tablespoonfuls of cornstarch wet 
in cold milk. The shells should have been prepared 
for the mixture with a nice oyster in each. I find clam 
shells much more convenient, being more regular in 
ehape. Arrange in large baking pan. Give the cream 
a final beat and with a spoon fill the shells. Bake five 
minutes in a hot oven and serve in shells. All milk 
can be used instead of cream. 

ANGELS ON HOESEBACK 

Is now one of the favorite savories. Slice thinly 
some rather fat bacon, roll an oyster in each slice, and 
slip each as done on a thin skewer ; fry them only just 
enough to crisp the bacon, and serve each on a trian- 
gular crouton of fried bread, dusted with a little 
cayenne, and just touched with a squeeze of lemon 
juice. Deviled or roasted oysters, served in the deep 
shell, are always a satisfactory epilogue to a dinner, 
even as raw ones are the best possible prologue. 

OYSTEES, DUCHESSE STYLE. 

Open two dozen Eastern oysters, save the liquid. 
Put in a saucepan one quart of canned tomatoes, salt 
and pepper, parsley, thyme and small piece of bay leaf 
tied together in the liquid of the oysters and set to boil 
gently for half an hour. Strain through a sieve and 
add a piece of butter the size of an egg. Have six pota- 
toes baked, put the middle part of the potatoes into a 
bowl with four tablespoonfuls of cream, butter size of 
a walnut, salt to taste, beat with a fork to the consist- 
ency of mashed potatoes. If not moist enough add a 
little milk. Take a porcelain (shallow) dish that you 
can trust to the fire and also send to the table. With 
the potatoes make a border all around about two and 
one-half inches high; put the oysters in the center; 
pour over the tomato sauce, cover with crumbs of 
toasted bread and little pieces of butter here and there; 
set in a moderate oven for ten or fifteen minutes. Be 
careful not to pour any sauce over the potatoes ; have 
some little squares of bread fried in butter, and use 
them to decorate the border of the dish. 



40 The Complete Cook Book. 

LOBSTER. 

In purchasing lobster choose those heavy for their 
size, fully alive and with bright eyes. Kill by plung- 
ing them in a large kettle full of hot water, then bring 
the water rapidly to a boil. In this way they are 
smothered quickly without suffering. Hen lobsters 
are in special request for soups and sauces, on account 
of the spawn, which becomes a brilliant red on boiling. 
A medium-sized lobster should boil a half-hour, a 
larger one three-quarters. When done and cool twist 
off the claws, and separate the tail from the body, care- 
fully shake out the "tom-alley" (this is the liver of the 
lobster and may be known by its greenish color), also 
the coral. Remove the body shell, pick all the white 
meat from the cells, rejecting the stomach, which is 
found immediately under the head. Split the tail shell 
so that the meat may be taken out in one solid piece; 
now split this meat in the center, and you will uncover 
a little vein running its entire length. This is the in- 
testine and must be thrown away. The stomach, or 
lady, the vein, and the spongy fingers between the body 
and shell are the only parts not eatable. The claws 
should be cracked and all the meat taken from them. 

A DAINTY WAY TO SERVE LOBSTER. 

Take one fresh lobster — or one can of lobsters — season 
well with salt, pepper and cayenne, then pick all to 
pieces, heat a little railk, soak bread in it while hot — 
almost as much as lobster — and a lump of butter the 
size of a walnut, mix well, form into chops, roll in bread 
crumbs and beaten egg, and fry in half cottoleue and 
butter. When done stick claws in the end and serve. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBERG. 

Take the meat of two or more lobsters ; cut into dice, 
one and a half pieces sliced truflBes, saute in butter a few 
minutes; do not let butter brown; then add three- 
fourths of a cup of Madeira wine and reduce to one- 
half; beat a cupful of cream with six yolks of eggs, add 
it to the lobster, shuffle about till thick and serve in a 



The Complete Cook Book. 41 

tureen very hot. Should you want to keep the New- 
barg to serve again, use the yolks of eight boiled eggs 
mashed through a sieve, but thicken the sauce with 
roux and don't use the raw eggs; try it. You can use 
it a week later. 

LOBSTEK A LA NEWBERG. 

One can of lobster, half a pint of cream, half a pint 
of sherry. Heat these in a double boiler or chafing dish, 
putting in lobster. Take several tablespoonfuls of 
liquid out and mix a heaping tablespoonful of flour 
with it and add to the lobster. Cool about two min- 
utes, and add salt and red pepper to taste. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBERG. 

Pick the meat from a large lobster and cut into 
dice. (If you cannot procure the fresh lobster the 
canned is very nice.) Season with salt and cayenne 
and one-fourth teaspoonf ul of mustard and two table- 
spoonfuls of butter (melted); now thicken with flour; 
one-half pint of cream or milk, and when boiling add 
the seasoned lobster, and then the beaten yolk of one 
egg. Place in shells, dust lightly with cracker crumbs, 
place in oven and serve hot. Peel and cut a cucumber 
in dice, cover with French dressing and serve on lettuce 
leaf with lobster. It is also nice served with chopped 
peanuts, mixed with mayonnaise dressing and laid be- 
tween two slices of thin bread, with lettuce leaf on either 
side. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBERG. 

Of course everybody makes lobster a la Newberg and 
has his own way for making it; but the following will 
be found to be one of the most tasty ways this delicious 
dish can be prepared : 

Lobster for six people. — Take three medium-sized lob- 
sters, and after they are boiled and thoroughly cooked 
take them out of the shell, beirig careful not to break 
the meat of the claws, getting them out as whole as 
possible. Cut the tail of the lobster into two equal 



42 The Complete Cook Book, 

parts, and as you take out the meat you will notice 
lengthwise in the center of the tail thus split a little 
thread running through the same, ending in a little 
bag ; be careful to remove both thread and bag. Now 
put the meat of these three lobsters into a sauteuse (a 
flat copper pan resembling a frying pan) with a piece 
of butter, about the size of two walnuts. Let this sim- 
mer for five minutes on a good fire; add to this a 
whisky glass of good sherry and brandy mixed. Let it 
boil in this liquor for two minutes. Have ready in a 
separate bowl the yolks of six fresh eggs; add little 
pinch of cayenne pepper, a little salt and a pint of thick 
cream, taking care to mix thoroughly ; now pour this 
mixture over the lobster, taking care to stir continually 
without letting it come to a boil while pouring this 
mixture with left hand over the lobster. Stir continu- 
ally with the right hand ; never stop stirring until sauce 
thickens, and serve it just before it comes to a boil. If 
you are fond of sherry, you can now add a little more 
before taking it off the fire. If you serve this for gen- 
tlemen add a little more salt and cayenne pepper than 
if serving it for ladies, who do not, as a rule, take their 
food seasoned as highly as gentlemen. The proper way 
now to serve this is to put it in a chafing dish, as this 
keeps it at a proper temperature. If lobster a la New- 
berg is let come to a boil, the eggs become cooked and 
you have scrambled eggs. 



BROILED LOBSTER. 

Cut three small raw lobsters into two equal parts, 
taking out the gravel from the head ; season with one 
pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, and rub with 
a very little oil; then broil the pieces for ten minutes. 
Take them from the fire, and remove the meat from the 
head of the lobsters and put it in a salad bowl with 
some melted butter, and mix well together; take the 
meat from the balance of the lobster, dip it in the sauce, 
and return it to its shell; warm again for two minutes 
in the oven and take out. "Garnish the shells with pars- 
ley greens and lemon, and serve with a sauce. 



The Complete Cook Book. 43 

BEOILED LIVE LOBSTER. 

Lay the lobster on the table on its stomach, flatten it 
out, and hold it firmly with the left hand, protected by 
a towel if the fellow be lively ; with a sharp pointed 
knife held in the right hand, make a quick cut in the 
section between the back and the tail. This severs the 
spinal cord and kills him instantly. Or, if you prefer, 
you may smother him by plunging him headforemost 
into boiling water for five minutes. Then begin at the 
mouth, and make a deep incision, drawing the knife 
quickly through the body and entire length of the tail, 
dividing shell and all into two equal parts. Lay the 
lobster open, remove the coral and stomach, but leave 
the liver. Remove the intestinal vein from the tail, 
and crack the claw shells with a mallet. Put it on a 
greased wire broiler, and lay it close to the hot coals. 
Brush the flesh over with melted butter as soon as hot, 
broil eight minutes on the flesh side, turn and broil six 
minutes on the shell side. Serve immediately. 

Melted butter is usually served with broiled lobster, 
but I prefer a maitre d 'hotel butter — two tablespoon- 
fuls butter creamed and seasoned with one- half tea- 
spoonful salt, one tablespoonful each lemon and minced 
parsley, and a few grains of paprika. 

Have plates very hot, as lobster cools quickly, and 
provide pincers or nut crackers for cracking the claws, 
and oyster forks for picking out the meat. Lobsters 
may be divided in the same way, placed in a drip- 
ping pan, basted with butter, and baked fifteen min- 
utes. 

They are more easily cooked, and hardly to be dis- 
tinguished from the broiled variety. 

These simple ways of broiling and baking in the 
shell give a flavor to the lobster which is quite unlike 
that obitained by boiling, and the simplest seasoning of 
butter, salt and pepper (many prefer nothing whatever) 
gives us a dish far superior to all the souflQes, croquettes, 
farces, etc., ever concocted. One has but to happen 
into any of our first-class hotels at luncheon time 
to be convinced of the popularity of broiled live 
lobster. 



44 The Complete Cook Book. 

DEVILED LOBSTER. 

Extract the meat from a boiled lobster and mince it 
finely; reserve the coral; season highly with mustard, 
cayenne, salt and some pungent sauce. Stir until it is 
well mixed and put into a porcelain saucepan (covered) 
with enough water to keep it from burning. Rub the 
coral smooth, moistening with vinegar, until it is thin 
enough to pour easily ; then stir into the contents of the 
saucepan. It is necessary to prepare the dressing before 
the lobster meat is set on the fire. It ought to boil up 
but once before the coral and vinegar are put in. Next 
stir in a heaping spoonful of butter and when it boils 
again take the pan from the fire. Too much cooking 
toughens the meat. 

SOFT SHELL CRABS. 

Lift each point of the back shell and carefully re- 
move every part of the spongy substance from beneath 
it. Then pull off the apron, the semi-circular piece of 
dark soft shell found on the under side and to which is 
attached a substance like that removed from the back. 
Wash in cold water and dry carefully on a towel. 
Season well with salt and pepper. Dip in well-beaten 
egg and roll in cracker crumbs. Fry in very hot lard 
from three to five minutes. Serve on slices of fresh 
toasted bread, a piece of lemon accompanying each 
crab. 

The soft shell crab is nothing more than a hard shell 
crab after shedding its shell. In about three days the 
new shell begins to harden again, which is the cause of 
the always short supply. 

DEVILED CRABS. 

To one can of No. 2 crabs. — Remove the top from 
the can and empty its contents into a bowl. Squeeze 
from them all the water. Rub three tablespoonfuls of 
butter and one of flour together. Pour into a teacup 
of rich, boiling milk, and let cook two or three minutes. 
Season with cayenne pepper and a very little salt. 
Take from the fire and add your meat, then one tea- 



The Complete Cook Book. 45 

spoonful of mustard well stirred, three tablespoonfuls 
of lemon juice, the mashed yolks and chopped whites of 
two hard-boiled eggs and one raw egg well beaten 
separately. Mix thoroughly and fill the shells. Brush 
over with yolk of egg and sprinkle with bread crumbs 
and pour over each one a tablespoonful of milk or 
cream. Brown in oven and serve hot. 

CRABS ON TOAST. 

Put into a chafing dish one tablespoonful of butter. 
When melted add one tablespoonful of celery, chopped 
very fine. Slightly thicken one-half cup of cream or 
milk with a little fiour and one canful of crab. (Small 
crabs are sweetest.) Stir until you think enough mois- 
ture has evaporated. Add one tablespoonful of sherry; 
salt and pepper. Serve on thin slices of nice toasted 
bread. 

SOFT SHELL CRABS. 

Use them only when freshly caught, as the shells 
harden after twenty-four hours. Pull off the sand bags 
and the shaggy substance from the side; then wash, 
and wipe dry ; sprinkle with salt and pepper ; roll in 
crumbs, then in egg, again in crumbs, and fry in smok- 
ing hot lard. 

SCALLOPED CRABS— NEW ORLEANS. 

Boil the crabs a half-hour in salted boiling water, 
then take them out and open them, pick out the meat 
and chop it up with one-third as much mushrooms and 
a piece of bread the size of a walnut soaked in stock, to 
make one piat of crab meat. Heat a tablespoonful of 
butter and one small onion, grated in a frying pan, and 
stir to a roux in one teaspoonful of flour. Take from 
the fire and stir in carefully one small cup of hot milk. 
Season to taste with salt, black and cayenne pepper and 
a saltspoonful of dry mustard. Add the powdered 
yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and one raw egg to the 
crab meat, and lastly stir in the mushrooms. Cook 
all together ten or fifteen minutes. Fill your shells 



46 The Complete Cook Book. 

with this mixture. Sift crumbs of cracker dust on top, 
dot with bits of butter, and brown in a quick oven. 
Squeeze lemon over them and serve. 

FRICASSEE OF CRAB. 

Pound the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs to a pow- 
der and work into them two tablespoonfuls of butter 
and one of flour, and a half-teaspoonful of French 
' mustard. Then add salt, red pepper and a pinch of 
mace. Heat three cupfuls of milk to a boil, lift from 
the fire, and add, gradually, stirring all the time, to the 
paste just made. Stir in a cupful of crab meat, picked 
out coarsely, set and cover, in boiling water for five 
minutes, stirring often. Add a glass of sherry and 
pour upon thin slices of peeled lemon in a deep dish. 

SCALLOPED CRABS WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Cut crabs and "mushrooms into pieces of equal size, 
to make two cupfuls of crab meat. Heat a large spoon- 
ful of butter and the juice of an onion in a frying pan 
and stir to a roux with a small spoonful of flour. Take 
from the fire and work into a cup of hot milk. Season 
with salt and red pepper; add the powdered yolks of 
three hard boiled eggs and the crab meat. Lastly, stir 
in the mushrooms ; fill the crab shells with the mixture, 
sift crumbs on top, sticking bits of butter in them and 
bake in a quick oven. Squeeze lemon juice over them 
and serve. 

Hard crabs, like lobsters, must be bought alive and 
killed just before they are cooked. The most merciful 
method is to plunge them head downward into boiling 
water. The first plunge kills them. For boiling cook 
at least half an hour in salted boiling water. 

SOFT SHELL CRABS. 

Lift the shell and remove the spongy substance on both 
sides, then put your thumb nail under the point of the 
"apron" and pull it off. The "apron" is a small, 
loose shell, running to a point in the middle of the un- 



The Complete Cook Book. 47 

der shell. Now wipe the crabs dry ; if they are at all 
sandy, wash them before removing anything. Do not 
blanch them, as it entirely destroys their fine flavor. 
Dip them, while alive, in beaten egg, and then in 
bread crumbs which have been well seasoned with salt 
and cayenne. Fry in smoking hot oil or lard for ten 
minutes; when done, drain a moment on soft brown 
paper. Put sauce tartare in the center of a cold, flat 
dish, arrange the crabs around this, garnish with pars- 
ley and lemon cut into quarters, and serve. 

DEVILED CRABS. 

Pick the meat from the shells of cold boiled crabs, 
cut it fine, mix with it a tablespoonful of bread crumbs 
for every five spoonfuls of meat, the juice and a pinch of 
the grated peel of a lemon, a quarter teaspoonful of 
made mustard, a pinch of cayenne pepper, a quarter 
teaspoonful of salt and a dash of curry powder. Melt 
two tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan, add the 
crab mixture and toss about with a fork until very 
hot. Fill individual china crab shells (or the back 
shells of the crabs) with this, stick tiny bits of butter 
on top, sift crumbs over all. and bake to a light brown 
in a quick oven. Serve with very thin slices of lemon. 

TO PREPARE FROGS' LEGS. 
The hind legs of large frogs are the only parts used ; 
the bodies are separated in the middle, and the legs are 
skinned. The flesh of the legs is white, very tender, 
and somewhat resembles that of poultry. After the 
frogs' legs are skinned, wash them well in cold water, 
put them over the fire in salted boiling water, and boil 
them for five minutes ; then throw them into cold water 
to cool. This process is called blanching, and must 
always be done if the flavor is to be considered. After 
the frogs' legs are blanched, they may be fried or 
broiled according to any of the recipes for frying or 
broiling fish, or stewed in a white broth. 

FRIED FROG LEGS. 
Use only the hind legs of the frogs. After washing 
in warm water soak well ; then place them in cold vine- 



48 The Complete Cook iiook. 

gar and salt and let them remain two|hours; then throw 
into scalding water and remove the skin. Wipe them 
dry and mix with flour, and fry either in butter or 
olive oil. When brown sprinkle a little salt and pep- 
per. Garnish with cress or parsley. 

TEERAPIN— UNIVEESITY CLUB STYLE. 

Take a live medium-sized dimaond back terrapin; 
put him in boiling water for half a minute; take him 
out and skin the legs and neck ; wash off and put in a 
saucepan with a few bay leaves and water; cover and 
boil till real tender. When cooked open it on the side 
and take out the meat. Trim it and take it apart at 
the joints and cut the gall out of the liver and slice the 
latter; then put two ounces of butter in a saucepan; a 
wineglassful of sherry^ a tablespoonful of brandy and 
a little chicken bouillon and the terrapin. Boil till 
half reduced; now mix together the yolks of three 
eggs, a little pepper and salt, one-fourth of a teaspoon- 
ful of Colman's English mustard, a dash of Tobasco, 
and a half-cupful of pure sweet cream. Mix up well 
and put the same in with your terrapin. Keep on stir- 
ring it on the side of the range till thick; add a spoonful 
of whipped cream and another tablespoonful of brandy : 
serve in china cups or croustade Bomaine. 

A CLAM BAKE. 

An impromtu clam bake may be bad at any time at 
low tide along the coast where clams are found. If 
you wish to have genuine fun, and to know what an 
appetite one can have for the bivalves, make up a pleas- 
ant party and dig for the clams yourselves. A short 
thick dress, shade hat, rubber boots — or better still, no 
boots at all, if you can bring your mind to the comfort 
of bare feet — a small garden trowel, a fork, and a 
basket, and you are ready. Let those who are not dig- 
ging gather a large pile of driftwood and seaweed, 
always to be found along the shore. Select a dozen or 
more large stones, and of them make a level floor ; pile 
the driftwood upon them, and make a good brisk fire to 
heat the stones thoroughly. When hot enough to 



The Complete Cook Book. 49 

crackle aa you sprinkle water upon them, brush off the 
embers, letting them fall between the stones. Put a thin 
layer of seaweed on the hot stones, to keep the lower 
clams from burning. Rinse the clams in salt water by 
plunging the basket which contains them in the briny 
pools near by. Pile them over the hot stones, heaping 
them high in the center. Cover with a thick layer of 
seaw;eed, and a piece of old canvas, blanket, carpet, or 
dry leaves to keep in the steam. The time for baking 
will depend upon the size and quantity of the clams. 
Peep in occasionally at those around the edge. When the 
shells are open, the clams are done. They are delicious 
eaten from the shell, with no other sauce than their own 
briny sweetness. Melted butter, pepper and vinegar 
should be ready for those who wish them ; then all may 
"fall to." Fingers must be used. A Ehode Islander 
would laugh at any one trying to use a khife and fork. 
Pull off the thin skin, take them by the black end, dip 
them in the prepared butter, and bite off close to the 
end. If you swallow them whole they will not hurt 
you. At a genuine Ehode Island clam bake, blue fish, 
lobsters, crabs, sweet potatoes and ears of sweet corn in 
their gauzy husks are baked with the clams. The clam 
steam gives them a delicious flavor. Brown bread is 
served with the clams, and watermelon for dessert com= 
pletes the feast. 



50 The Complete Cook hJook. 



FISH. 



TO FEY FISH. 

Although broiling is the most delicate method of pre- 
paring fish, there are many kinds of the smaller varie- 
ties which custom declares are better, more savory, 
fried — and hence the name of "pan-fish" has been given 
them. And even many of the large fish, as white fish, 
cut in pieces, are delicious fried, if done properly. Fry 
some thin slices of sweet salt pork in a spider, and when 
done take them out and put in the .fish (the little ones 
whole) heavily dredged with flour, seasoned with salt 
and pepper. Fry to a rich brown on both sides. Use 
the pork, with parsley and lemon slices for garnishing. 
The other method of frying fish is in deep fat. It must 
then be dredged with seasoned flour, dipped in beaten 
eggs and rolled in bread crumbs. The fat should be so 
hot when the fish goes in that it sends up a blue smoke 
from the middle, which part heats last. The pan 
method is really the most satisfactory. Butter alone, 
or butter and drippings, may be used, if preferred, 
instead of the salt pork. If sauce is served with fried 
fish it should be one with a "snap" to it, as tartare, 
piquant, tomato, Eobert, or others having lenaon juice 
as an ingredient. 

TO BEOIL FISH. 

Broiling is the most delicate manner of preparing 
fish, and all edible fish weighing under four and one- 
half pounds may be so prepared. The very small ones 
may be broiled whole (cleaned by opening under the 
gills and squeezing out the contents, then washing) ; the 
larger ones must be split down the back. 



The Complete Cook Book. 51 

When a fish for broiling has been thoroughly 
cleaned and the fins cut off, rub it over well with soft 
butter (except the oily ones — salmon, blue fish and 
mackerel), and season with pepper and salt. The 
broiler must be a double one, that the fish may be 
handled as little as possible, and it must be greased 
with salt pork rind to prevent sticking. The best heat 
for broiling is wood coals or charcoals; but very satis- 
factory results may be had from hard-coal coals (if 
clean) or even gas. Lay the fish on the broiler flesh 
side down, and broil to a golden brown, holding the 
broiler up from the coals if the fish is thick and so needing 
slow broiling. When the meat side is done, brown the 
skin side. Sometimes the fish is so thick that it browns 
before cooking through, in which case slide it carefully 
onto a sheet of tin, which article is a necessity in a 
fish-cooking outfit, place in the bottom of a dripping 
pan, and continue the cooking in the oven. When 
done, slide from the broiler or sheet on to a hot platter, 
spread with maitre d'hotel butter (butter, salt and pep- 
per blended with lemon juice), and serve, garnished 
with lemon slices. A border of watercress makes a 
pretty garnish. Of course, a fish sauce may be used, 
if preferred, such as tartare, hot maitre d'hotel, 
tomato, piquant, curry, etc., but a delicate broiled fish 
no more requires a sauce than does a choice broiled 
steak. 

TO BOIL FISH. 

In being boiled a fish loses more of its flavor than in 
any method of cooking, but for that very reason ;t 
admits of many culinary possibilities, by combination 
with a variety of rich sauces. A fish kettle is a great 
convenience, and may be used for many things — as boil- 
ing hams, legs of mutton, for heating jars in fruit pre- 
serving, etc. — ^hence is not an extravagance; but fish 
may te successfully boiled in a proper sized granite or 
porcelain-lined kettle. Many cooks sew fish in cheese 
cloth or thin muslin, that they may not be broken in 
the boiling or handling, but the writer never finds such 
precaution necessary, depending solely upon careful 
handling. When the fish is put in, the water or (court 



52 The Complete Cook Book. 

bouillon) should be scalding hot, but not boiling, and 
it should never boil violently, but gently and evenly. 
If water is used, add a teaspoonful of salt and a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice (or vinegar) for each pint. 
Since court bouillon gives better results, why not use it 
instead of plain water, if one boils fish at all? The 
proper way to make court bouillon is as follows : 

Add to three quarts of water one onion, one stalk of 
celery, two slices of carrot, two tablespoonfuls of salt, a 
dozen peppercorns, six cloves, a large bay leaf, three- 
quarters of a cupful of vinegar, and a bouquet of sweet 
herbs tied in a piece of cheese cloth. Boil, covered, for 
half an hour before putting in the fish, A five-pound 
fish should cook in half an hour. Shrimp, oyster and 
lobster sauces are much used for boiled fish, and a rich 
drawn butter, made with court bouillon (or milk and 
cream instead of water,) with chopped hard-boiled eggs, 
is also a favorite; but any preferred sauce may be used, 
even to the plainest. When a sauce is poured over 
boiled fish it should be thick enough to cling to it — and 
appears very appetitizing, if rich and with chopped 
eggs, capers, bits of pickle, shrimp or lobster coral 
through it. But ordinarily boiled fish is served on a 
napkin, with a garnish of lemon slices and parsley. 
Fried oysters make an appetizing border and fine ac- 
companying flavor. Serve mashed, Parisienne, French 
fried or plain boiled potatoes with boiled fish. 

TO BAKE FISH. 
To bake evenly, a fish should stand upright in the 
pan, which can be managed by supporting it on either 
side, or by putting it over a little bowl or cup, if no fill- 
ing is to be used. A long fish may be trussed to stand 
by running a cord (in a trussing or darning needle) 
through the head, middle of the body and tail, and draw- 
ing the fish to shape the letter S, the cord being re- 
moved before serving. Every housekeeper should have 
a special dripping pan for baking fish, and there should 
be a removable tin sheet in the bottom of it, for easy 
handling of the fish. When a fish is filled and trussed 
for baking, cut gashes across it at inch intervals, and 
lay in these tiny strips of sweet salt pork; rub all over 



The Complete Cook Book. 53 

with soft butter, season with salt and pepper, dredge 
well with flour, and place in the pan on the sheet, with 
some very thin slices of salt pork under it. As soon as 
the flour is brown, pour in half a cupful of boiling 
water, and begin the basting. Cover tightly, and con- 
tinue the baking, basting at ten-minute intervals, 
until the fish is done. Fifteen minutes to the pound is 
the general rule for baking, but this must vary with the 
heat of the oven, size and condition of the fish. When 
done, slide the fish from the sheet to a hot platter, gar- 
nish with cresses, and send hot to the table. With 
baked fish any preferred sauce may be used, Holland- 
aiSe and tartare being favorites. A good pan-sauce 
may be made (pouring off most of the fat and proceed- 
ing as in roast meat gravy), to which chopped hard- 
boiled eggs should be added. Never pour a sauce over 
a baked fish, but serve in a gravy-boat or around the 
fish on the platter. In the latter case serve Parisienne 
potatoes or potato souffle in another dish. When the 
sauce is in a boat, Saratoga potatoes may be used as a 
border around the fish. 

IMPENADA. 

For this dish use bass, haddock or cod, and bake in 
an earthen crock. First, line the vessel with one large, 
sliced onion, then fill it nearly half full with sliced, 
raw potatoes. Season with salt and red pepper, then 
add a thick layer of fish, filling the rest of the vessel 
with potatoes. Add a full half bottle of ketchup, and 
one-quarter pound butter. After mixing a teaspoonful 
of flour with water, add same and fill crock with water 
until nearly full. Put in hot oven and bake three 
hours. Stewed tomatoes may be used, according to 
taste. 

BROILED SPANISH MACKEREL AND 
POMPANO. 

Split the fish down the back and season with salt and 
pepper ; rub it over with . olive oil and place it over a 
charcoal broiler which has just been rubbed with salt 



54 The Complete Cook Book. 

pork. Lay the fish on the broiler flesh side down, and 
broil a golden brown. Then turn and brown the skin 
side. If the fish is so thick that it browns before 
cooking through slide it into a fish pan and cook inside 
the oven until thoroughly done. 

Sauce: Mix one tablespoonful of butter with one 
tablespoonful of flour over the stove, and add slowly 
one-half pint of cold water and the juice of one lemon 
and another lemon sliced. Take out seeds and let all 
boil together. 

SALMON PUFFS. 

To a one-pound can of salmon add twelve chopped 
almonds, one teaspoonful of grated onion, one teaspoon- 
fulof white pepper; mix this and then add the unbeaten 
whites of three eggs and stir in carefully one-half pint 
of cream whipped to a stiff froth. Fill your timbale 
molds with this mixture and cook twenty minutes in a 
moderate oven. Fresh salmon may be boiled and used 
if preferred. 

Sauce : Two tablespoonfuls of butter and two table- 
spoonfuls of flour rubbed together. Add slowly one 
pint of boiling water and stir a moment over the fire. 
Take from the fire and carefully add another table- 
spoonful of butter, yolks of four eggs and two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. Strain and add a little chopped 
parsley. 

A SEASONABLE ENTREE. 

This recipe requires two shad roes, one-half pint 
cream, yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of flour, a 
pinch each of salt and pepper, one-quarter of a grated 
nutmeg, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, one large 
teaspoonful of butter, one medium tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, whites of two eggs for dipping, some 
sifted bread crumbs and a pinch of cayenne. Wash 
the shad roes, put them into a saucepan with salted 
boiling water. Cover and simmer for fifteen minutes. 
Remove the shad roes from the fire and take oflf the 
skin and mash them. Bring the cream to a boil. Rub 
the butter and flour together over the fire, but do not 



The Complete Cook Book. 55 

brown ; stir in gradually the boiling cream. Boil three 
minutes until very thick. Remove from the fire and 
while still boiling stir in the two yolks of eggs. Add 
to this all the other ingredlients, mix well and spread 
on a dish to cool. When cold form into croquettes. 
Dip in egg first and then in fine bread crumbs. Let 
stand at least one hour in the ice box, then fry in boil- 
ing lard until golden brown. When cooked, lay the 
croquettes upon a folded paper to drain perfectly dry. 
Serve with lemon quarters of tartare sauce. 

PLANKED SHAD— SOUTHERN STYLE. 

First of all, the plank on which the shad is to be 
cooked should be of well-seasoned hickory or other hard 
wood. It must be at least three inches thick and made 
to fit the oven, slightly cooped out in the center to hold 
the juices. Split and butter the shad and tack to your 
hot plank, skin side down. Cook half an hour; season 
with salt, pepper and olive oil or butter. Garnish with 
parsley and lemon slices. 

SHAD ROE SAUCE. 

Mash two shad roes in cold water, put them in a stew- 
pan, add one teaspoonful of salt and cover with boiling 
water — simmer but do not boil. Now drain, take off 
outer skin and mash fine. In another saucepan put 
one-quarter pound of butter, one-quarter teaspoon of 
mace and one gill of Maderia. Add the roe gradually; 
let boil up and serve. 

BAKED FISH— A LA CREOLE. 

Take a fish about twelve or fourteen inches long, 
clean and scale it ; spread lard thickly on both sides and 
dust it well with flour. Now, put it in a baking pan, 
and in one corner put one-quarter pint of chopped toma- 
toes, in another one-quarter pint of chopped onion, in 
another one-quarter pint of chopped mushrooms, and 
in another one-quarter pint of boiled and picked shrimp 
or oysters, salt to taste, and a chopped pod of red pep- 
per. Place your pan in a hot oven, and when the fish 



56 The Complete Cook Book. 

has browned, add water enough just to cover it, and 
bake until done, basting it occasionally with the water 
and ingredients. When done place in a hot dish ; add 
a little water to the contents in the pan, and simmer a 
few minutes. When taking it off add a wineglassful 
of good sherry — pour all over the fish — and serve very 
hot. 

HALIBUT TIMBALE. 

Bemove the skin and bones from one and one-half 
pounds \oi fresh halibut. Shred in small pieces and 
pound to a fine paste. Soak two cupfuls of bread 
crumbs in a pint of hot milk for five minutes. When 
thoroughly soaked add the fish pulp; season with one 
saltspoonful of salt, one-half as much white pepper and 
a few sprigs of chopped parsley. Stir in slowly at last 
the beaten whites from three eggs (reserving the yolks 
for sauce). Butter a timbale mold and pour the mix- 
ture in. Place in a pan of hot water and bake for thirty 
minutes in a moderate oven. If it become too brown, 
cover with yellow paper. Turn out and serve with 
sauce HoUandaise. 

CROQUETTES OP SALMON. 

Pour off liquid from one can of salmon, empty meat 
into a bowl and pick out bones and skin. Mash meat 
as smooth as possible, moisten with a little milk, add 
pepper, salt, a tablespoonful of butter and two eggs. 
Mix thoroughly and put on ice for two or three hours. 
When time to serve have grease boiling. With a fork 
separate portions of the mixture, roll it in eggs and 
bread crumbs, drop in pan and fry a light brown. 

RED SNAPPER— WITH MEXICAN SAUCE. ^ 

Clean, wipe and dry the fish, rub with salt and pepper 
and lemouj stuff and sew. Cut gashes two inches apart on 
JDoth sides, and place narrow strips of breakfast bacon 
in the gashes. Skewer into the shape of S. Dredge well 
with flour. Put it in hot oven without water; baste 
when flour is browned, and baste often afterward • fif- 
teen minutes to the pound is the rule for baking. ' 



The Complete Cook Book. 57 

Stuffing: One cup cracker crumbs, a dash of pep- 
per and salt to taste, one teaapoonful of chopped onion, 
one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of 
chopped sour pickle, a lump of butter the size of a hen's 
egg. Melt the butter and mix all together. 

Sauce : One lemon, one cup of vinegar, one table- 
spoonful of celery seeds, four eggs, one teaspoonful of 
mustard, one-half cup of olive oil, one tablespoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce, salt and pepper to taste. Beat 
the eggs, dissolve the mustard in the vinegar, and add 
to the eggs ; then add olive oil, celery seeds, Worcester- 
shire sauce, lemon, salt and pepper, and cook until 
thick. Cut the lemon in small, thin slices. Garnish 
the dish with slices of hard-boiled eggs. 

CODFISH. 

One does not need a fish kettle to boil fish properly, 
but it is rarely sent to the table whole, yet tender, even 
jay a cook who has her kitchen cupboard stocked with 
every convenience. On Friday next try boiled cod 
with oyster sauce, and if the following recipe is care- 
fully followed the family will not be aware that they 
are not indulging in halibut, which costs more than 
double. Cod carelessly boiled and without proper sauce 
is woolly and tasteless, but with care is just the reverse. 
If a fish kettle is not at hand, a plate in the bottom of 
an ordinary large saucepan will answer the purpose. 
The cod is then sewed or fastened with safety pins in 
a piece of cheese cloth, which should be washed out 
after use and kept for this purpose; the edges are to be 
sewn together, as there must be only one thickness over ' 
the fish. The fish is first washed in very cold water, 
placed in the cloth on the plate, covered with boiling 
salted water, ten minutes, exactly, allowed to each 
pound, then simmered surely but slowly. When the 
cloth is removed the fish will be in good shape and 
ready for the sauce to be thrown over. The latter is to 
be prepared while the fish is cooking by stirring a 
tablespoonful of sifted flour into one of boiling butter, 
then adding gradually to this half a pint each of hot 
milk and oyster juice; when this is smooth the oysters 
are stirred in. tienner and salt tn '^late added, and as 



58 The Complete Cook Book. 

soon as the oysters begin to curl at the edges the sauce 
is completed. For a change, the oysters may be 
omitted, and boiled shrimps or chopped parsley added 
to the sauce instead. 

DEVILED SAEDINES ON TOAST. 

Place the yolks of four eggs in a stewpan with a 
tablespoonful of butter, salt and cayenne to taste; stir 
these over a slow fire until it forms a paste. Trim each 
sardine and wipe dry, and mash them into this paste. 
Dish them up on strips of toast and serve hot with slices 
of lemon. 

CODFISH CAKES. 

Soak a pint bowl of codfish over night. Next morn- 
ing drain and add one and one-half pints of raw sliced 
Irish potatoes. Cover with cold water and when it 
reaches boiling point throw it off and add fresh boiling 
water and cook until the potatoes are tender. Drain 
and mash well and add a bit of butter and pepper and 
moisten with a beaten egg and enough cream to form 
into round cakes one and one-half inches thick. EoU 
each one in flour and fry in hot lard until they are a 
delicate brown. The lard must be boiling and the 
cakes fried gently. 

PERFECT CODFISH BALLS. 

"Pick up" a pint bowl of codfish, remove every bone, 
and wash off the excess of salt. Into a granite saucepan 
put one and one-half pints of sliced raw potatoes, and 
put the fish in on top of them. Pour cold water over 
them until they are more than covered, and then bring 
slowly to a boil. Pour off this water (when the boiling 
point is reached), add fresh (boiling) water, and cook 
till the potatoes are done. Now drain well and mash 
together till fine, after which yoxi may add a heaping 
tablespoonful of butter, and a level saltspoonful of pep- 
pr. When nearly cold add two beaten egg- yolks, and 
if not too soft to make into balls or cakes, a little cream. 
Make into shape desired, drop into fat and cook to a 



The Complete Cook Book. 59 

rich brown (not dark), or saute in fat in a spider. In 
either case be sure the fat is thoroughly hot. A de- 
ficiency in this respect is one of the things to be avoided. 
Drain on brown paper for a few moments in the oven. 
Serve hot, placing a napkin (heated) under them on the 
platter. 

CEAYFISH BISQUE— A CREOLE DISH. 

Parboil the fish, pick out the meat, and mince or 
pound it in a mortar until very fine ; it will require 
about fifty crayfish. Add to the fish one-third the 
quantity of bread, soaked in milk, and a quarter of a 
pound of butter, also salt to taste, a bunch of thyme, 
two leaves of sage, a small piece of garlic and a chopped 
onion. Mix all well and cook ten minutes, stirring all 
the time to keep it from growing hard. Clean the 
heads of the fish, throw them in strong salt and water 
for a few minutes and then drain them. Fill each one 
with the above stuflSng, flour them, and fry a light 
brown. Set a clean stewpan over a slow fire, put into 
it three spoonfuls of lard or butter, a slice of ham or 
bacon, two onions chopped fine ; dredge over it enough 
flour to absorb the grease, then add a pint and one-half 
of boiling water, or better still, plain beef stock. Sea- 
son this with a bunch of thyme, a bay leaf, and salt 
and pepper to taste. Let it cook slowly for half an 
hour, then put the heads of the crayfish in and let them 
boil fifteen minutes. Serve rice with it. 

ANCHOVY SOUFFLEE. 

Line tart molds with puff paste, prick and bake. 
"Wash, bone, and pound four anchovies, with the yolk 
of a hard-boiled egg, a tablespoonf ul of salad oil, a dust 
of cayenne, and a very few drops of carmine to bring 
up the color. When this is quite smooth, stir into it a 
little — a tablespoonful — of dissolved gelatine, rub it 
all through a sieve, then mix it with a gill of stiffly 
whipped cream. This should be chilled upon ice before 
it is put in the tarts. 

HADDIE. 

Do not forget that haddie is the best fish one can 



6o The Complete Cook Book. 

serve outside of fresh ones. When properly served it 
is relished by almost every one who has any liking for 
fish at all. Small ones are the most delicate. To 
cream haddie, put the fish, skin side up, in a dripping 
pan of cold water, put it on the stove, and allow the 
water to slowly reach the point just below boiling, 
draw the pan to the back of the stove .for fifteen min- 
utes, then remove the fish, and flake it (in large pieces), 
getting out all bones. In a spider melt two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, blend with it two heaping tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, add enough mixed milk and cream to 
make a rather thin sauce, season with salt, pepper and 
a little powdered mace, and cook two or three minutes. 
Now draw to the back of the stove, and add three 
beaten egg-yolks, blended with three tablespoonfuls of 
cold milk ; when thoroughly mixed add the fish, heat 
together, and serve. The fish may be merely skinned 
(after being freshened) instead of flaked, then laid on a 
hot platter and the sauce poured over it. The sauce 
should, in that case, have the addition of chopped hard- 
boiled eggs and a little parsley. To broil haddie, it 
should first be freshened in the manner described for 
creaming; then rub over with soft butter, and broil to 
a rich brown ; season with pepper and butter, and gar- 
nish with lemon slices. 

SALMON CREAMS. 

Use one pound of salmon and boil, removing skin and 
bones; then rub and pound fish to a paste; add twelve 
almonds chopped fine, one teaspoonful of onion juice, 
one teaspoonful white pepper; mix this and then gradu- 
ally add the unbeaten whites of three eggs, then care- 
fully stir in one-half pint of whipped cream to a stiff 
froth. Fill into timbale molds and cook for twenty 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

Sauce : Two tablespoonfuls of butter and two of 
flour rubbed together; add gradually one pint of boiling 
water and stir a moment over fire. Take from fire and 
carefully add another tablespoonful of butter, yolks of 
four eggs and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Strain 
and add a little chopped parsley. 



The Complete Cook Book. 6i 

DEVILED SHRIMPS. 

Make a brown roux with two tablespoonfulsof butter 
and the same of browned flour, add when smooth to 
half a cupful of good stock; stir one minute and put in 
a large cupful of minced shrimps, the j'olks of two 
hard-boiled eggs rubbed to a powder, a saltspoonful of 
made mustard, a pinch of cayenne, a few drops of 
onion juice with salt to taste. Mix well, stir over the 
fire until smokii^g hot and fill shells or pate pans with 
the mixture. Cover with fine crumbs with bits of but- 
ter here and there and brown quickly. Send around 
sliced lemon with them. 

CURRIED SHRIMPS. 

Cook a teaspoonful of minced onion and a tablespoon- 
ful of butter in a saucepan for two minutes after the 
boil; then add a tablespoonful of flour and two tea- 
spoonfuls of curry powder, and when they bubble, two 
cupfuls of boiling water, gradually, stirring all the 
time. Add one teaspoonful of Chutney sauce and salt 
to taste, then put in your shrimps. Cook five minutes 
and serve in a deep dish. Send around ice-cold 
bananas with them, and boiled rice. 

SHRIMP CASOSLETTES. 

Cut small rounds of bread with a deep pastry cutter, 
pressing out the middle with a smaller cutter, without 
piercing a hole quite through. Fry these rounds a 
bright yellow in boiling lard, fill them with shelled 
shrimps mixed with one gill of cream, a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, the juice of half a lemon, one blade 
of mace, and a little cayenne, all heated together for 
fifteen minutes. 

DEVILED SHRIMPS— NEW ORLEANS. 

Rub together two tablespoonfuls of butter and two 
tablespoonfuls of browned flour. Place on the fire and 
when smooth work in to half a cup of good stock. Stir 
briskly one minute, then add one-half pint of minced 



62 The Complete Cook Book. 

shrimps, the powdered yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, a 
saltspoonful of made mustard, a few drops of onioa 
juice, and salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Mix thor- 
oughly and stir over the fire until smoking hot. Then 
fill your shells with this mixture, sprinkle fine crumbs 
on top and dot with bits of butter. Brown in a quick 
oven. Serve with slices of lemon. 

CREAM SHRIMPS. 

One-half a pint of fresh shrimps picked fine — the 
canned shrimps are also good — one-half teacup of but-, 
ter, one-half teacup of cream, one-half teacup of dried 
bread crumbs, one small teaspoonful of dried mustard, 
salt well, and use freely of white pepper and a little 
paprika, then the yolks of two eggs. Mix the mustard 
with a little of the cream. Heat the butter and cream 
together in a chafing dish, add very gradually the 
beaten yolks of the eggs, then the bread crumbs and 
seasoning, then the shrimps. Cook two minutes; serve 
at once on toasted wafers. This is a fine after-theater 
luncheon. 



The Complete Cook Book. 63 



POULTRY AND GAME. 



ERASTUS' TUEKEY. 

"Erastus, your young master will be coining home to- 
night; 

We'll have a gay Thanksgiving and will make the old 
home bright. 

'Tis true that times have changed with Os; our fowls, 
they are but few ; 

I hope you will do your best, since I depend on you. 

Remember that big gobbler we were looking at to-day? 

I want you now to catch him, and to dress him, right 
away; 

To-morrow you must stuff him, and then roast him 
juicy brown ; 

My son will bring a friend of his along with him from 
town." 

'"Deed, sab, yo' ken depen* dat I will go widouten 
fail. 

An' shoo dat lazy goblah off de roos' upon de rail; 

He plump es enny 'possum am; I'll pluck him in a 
wink; 

He make a scrumshus dinnah, sah; 'bout dat I dassent 
tink." 

Next day, when Major Tompkins led his son and guest, 
with pride, 

To dinner, where the turkey lay in state upon its side, 

The host was smiling, satisfied that things were look- 
ing fine; 

He turned his plate, well pleased, and said: "We will 
proceed to dine." 



64 The Complete Cook Book. 

But when he forked the gobbler, flat upon its back, to 

carve, 
The soldier's face went white with rage; he'd "see that 

darky starve." 
For lo ! the left leg all was gone, a clean cut from the 

hip! 
The major swore a wicked oath and bit his nether lip. 
"ErastusI" he exclaimed; "you scamp, where is that 

other leg? 
When I get through with dinner, sir, you will for 

mercy beg." 
'"Deed, Major, fo' de Lord! I tells de truff afo' yo's 

froo. 
Dat goblah, he was sleepin', sah, an' didnf* hear me 

shoo." 



Erastus had observed before how turkeys, in the night, 
When on the roost, put up one leg completely out of 

sight. 
He argued, from this point of view, that he could 

saf 3ly steal 
A plump leg off the gobbler, and thus feast himself a 

meal. 
"De turkeys on'y hab one leg!" he solemnly declared. 
To prove which false assertion 'Eastus thought himself 

prepared. 
So, when the dinner ended, in the darkness of the night, 
He took the major out of doors to vindicate his right. 



"See dar!" he cried, and pointed with his finger to a 

row 
Of turkeys, roosting on one foot. ' ' I tole yo' it wah so !" 
The major whirled his cane above his head. "Shoo, 

shoo!" he cried 
And every turkey dropped his hidden leg down from its 

side. 
Erastus, for a moment, stood and scratched his woolly 

head, 
As if debating what to do. Then, suddenly, he said: 



The Complete Cook Book. 65 

"'Deed, Major, at de dinnah time yo' didn't sho' dat 

one, 
Kaa' he'd a put he leg down jes' like all ob dem hab 

done." 

AS TO ROASTING. 

He had traveled miles from the British Isles 

To study our savage types, 
And he heaved a sigh ^s he cocked his eye 

At our glorious Stars and Stripes. 

And he shook his head as he slowly said, 

"The idea is downright low; 
At the very best your flag suggests, 

Well — gridirons, don't you know. " 

Then a Gotham maid, who was not afraid 

Of his lordship, raised her bead. 
And her eyes gleamed bright with a cutting light, 

But she ever so calmly said : 

"Why, of course; that's due to your point of view, 
For I judge you were thinking then 

Of its old-time use, when it cooked your goose. 
And roasted yau Englishmen." 

HOW TO COOK A TURKEY. 

A successfully roasted turkey requires three things: 
The bird must be young and tender; it must be care- 
fully drawn, stuffed and trussed, and it must be 
roasted by a hot fire. Select a young turkey. One 
that does not weigh over six or seven pounds is gener- 
ally the best. Heavy birds are apt to be old and coarse 
in flavor. The turkey should be drawn the day it 
is killed, and hung in a cold place at least twenty-four 
hours after it is killed. All the layers of fat under the 
skin of the breast and on the inside of the bird that can 
be reached must be taken out. If it is left in, it gives 
a strong flavor to the flesh. It is not of any use to the 



66 The Complete Cook Book. 

cook, but may be tried out for soap fat. Chicken fat, 
on the other hand, though it should be removed from 
the bird when it is cooked, can be tried out for cooking 
potatoes and other articles, and is a very fair substitute 
for olive oil in a salad dressing. The removal of the oil 
bag in the tail of the bird is also necessary, to prepare 
it for roasting. This is a matter often forgotten, but 
even this small portion of oil imparts an unpleasant 
flavor to the turkey if it is left in. Eemove the tendons 
from the drumsticks. Wipe the bird off carefully, and 
prepare a stuffing of dry bread crumbs. This is now 
preferred, as more delicious and more wholesome than 
the moist dressing of olden times. Take about two 
medium-sized loaves of stale bread. Rub them, after 
breaking them apart, on a coarse grater, until the inside 
is evenly crumbled. Lay aside the cuter dry crusts for 
drying and sifting for dried bread crumbs to be used 
for breading meats and croquettes. Take the soft inner 
crumbs. They should make a heaping quart. Add a 
tablespoonful of salt, an even teaspoonful of pepper, an 
even teaspoonful of sage, two of summer savory, and a 
large teaspoonful of minced parsley. Rub all these 
ingredients in the bread crumbs, and add half a cupful 
of butter. Rub this in and fill the inside and crop of 
the turkey. Skewer the bird carefullly. If this is 
done properly it will not be necessary to use a trussing 
needle to sew it up. Rub the bird thickly with butter, 
dredge it with salt and pepper and then thickly with 
flour. Put it in a very hot oven on a meat rack. 
Dredge a little flour in the pan. When this browns, 
pour a pint of hot water under the turkey. Turn the 
turkey, to brown it evenly, and every fifteen minutes 
baste it with the liquor in the bottom of the pan. As 
this liquor boils away, add water from the teakettle. 
It will take about an hour and three-quarters for a 
seven-pound turkey to roast. The best gravy is made 
by boihng the giblets slowly while the turkey is roast- 
ing, and by mixing the liquor from them with the drip- 
pings in the pan. The liver is the only portion of the 
giblets saved. Chop the liver and add it to the gravy 
after skimming and seasoning it and thickening it with 
a tablespoonful of fionr. 



The Complete Cook Book. 67 

HOW TO COOK AND CARVE THE THANKS- 
GIVING TURKEY. 

If the man who doesn't know the slightest thing 
about the art of carving a holiday turkey will study 
the directions here given, he can go to the home of 
his prospective mother-in-law next Thanksgiving, and 
with a light heart offer his services for the partition 
of the bird. 

And the man who wields the carver at a Thanksgiv- 
ing feast must needs know something above the ordi- 
nary about the task confronting him. The other diners 
observe him closely. No matter how brisk the conver- 
sation may be, every pair of eyes at the table watches 
the disintegration of the turkey narrowly. A blunder 
causes a terrible lull in the table pleasantries, which 
stabs straight to the heart of the carver. If he hacks 
the bird into small bits in a vain efforts to find a joint, 
he knows that every diner has summed him up as a 
clumsy boor. If, on the other hand, he meets the 
responsibility neatly and with precision, he has earned 
the admiration of all hands, for artistic carvers are rare 
articles, and everybody recognizes the genuine one at 
sight. 

To accomplish the removal of left wing, place the 
fork in the breast of the turkey, having one prong on 
each side of the breast bone. Grasp the handle of the 
fork in the left hand, and, laying the flat of the knife 
parallel with and close to the neck, just above where 
the left wing joins the body, cut downward, catching 
the joint. A slight pressure severs the cartilage and a 
single sweep of the knife removes the wing. 

In the task of removing the left leg, put the point of 
the knife into the flesh which holds the second joint to 
the carcass, and cut downward to where the second 
joint's bone joins with the carcass. Place the knife 
between the leg and the carcass, making a downward 
sweep to where the second joint connects with the body, 
and meeting the cut described in the above lines. A 
gentle pressure with the point of the knife then causes 
Sie leg at the second joint to drop into the dish. 

Slicing off the breast is a delicate task. The breast 



68 The Complete Cook Book. 

may be sliced off in two ways. It can be removed in 
slices parallel to the breastbone; it can also be removed 
in slices, cutting crossways. 

The removal of the oyster bone is another delicate 
task. Place the flat of the knife against the vertebrae 
connecting the pope's nose with the carciass, and press 
the edge in the direction of the neck of the bird. When 
the knife reaches the place indicated, turn the blade, 
and the leverage causes the oyster bone to fall into the 
plate. After removing the oyster bone, turn the plat- 
ter and remove from the right side the wing, the leg, 
breast and oyster bone in the same manner as on the 
left side. 

Every carver should understand how to remove the 
wishbone, and if he fails to do this in a satisfactory 
way the young folks at the table will have a mighty 
small opinion of his ability. To properly accomplish 
this task, place the flat of the knife against the breast- 
bone next the wishbone, and, keeping it pressed against 
the carcass, sweep it toward the neck. This removes 
the wishbone. 

When the wishbone has been removed the work of 
the carver is practically over, and if he has performed 
his work skillfully he can legitimately feel that he is 
the hero of the day, 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Select a young gobbler weighing from eight to twelve 
pounds. If the breastbone is soft and pliable, the 
turkey is young; if stiff, it is old. Singe, draw, re- 
move the oil bag and wash it quickly in cold water; 
neatly dry it, and then rub it inside with a tablespoon- 
f ul of salt ; fill the crop and body with a dressing made 
as follows : Soak bread about two days old in milk un- 
til soft; press out all the moisture possible, and add to 
it an equal amount of quickly cooked hoecake or com 
bread ; nlace a saucepan with oTie-quarter cup of finely 
chooped onion over the fire with one tableepoonful of 
butter; stir and cook five minutes without browning; 
add the bread, one slice of breakfast bacon chopped 
fine, and cook five minutes longer; continue to stir all 



The Complete Cook Book. 69 

the while ; remove from the fire, and, when cold, sea- 
son with salt and pepper, one teaspoonful of celery 
seeds, one teaspoonful of parsley, a hit of butter (sage 
and thyme if you like), and the raw yolks of two eggs ; 
do not fill the turkey more than three-quarters full, as 
the bread will swell; now, sew the turkey up; twist the 
wings back, run a skewer through the thigh into the 
hody, pass a string across the back of the turkey, cross- 
ing it below the breast ; then catch it over the points of 
the skewer, cross the string again and tie in the back; 
rub a tablespoonful of salt and a little pepper all over 
the bird and place it in a roasting pan. Spread two 
tablespoonfuls of soft butter over the breast, dredge 
with flour, then put the pan in a medium hot oven to 
roast; when this browns add one cup of boiling water 
and baste ; dredge with flour after each basting ; con- 
tinue to roast and baste freely until done; allow fifteen 
minutes to every pound. 

Place the giblets in a saucepan over the fire, cover 
with cold water, add one-half teaspoonful of salt; when 
it boils add one clove of garlic and cook till done ; mix 
one tablespoonful of flour in a little cold water until 
smooth, and add to the drippings in the pan in which 
the turkey was cooked, and add sufiicient giblet broth 
to make a cream sauce; cook five minutes, skim and 
strain; chop the giblets very fine, add them to the 
sauce and serve. 

Oysters and also chestnuts make a pleasing stufiSng 
for a change. Serve with cranberry sauce or currant 

jelly. 

If you have nice slices of turkey breast left over they 
make a nice breakfast dish when dipped in batter and 
fried brown. 

OYSTER STUFFING FOR TURKEY. 

Take three or four dozen nice plump oysters, wash 
and bread them, add to them a tumblerful of bread 
crumbs; chop up a tumblerful of nice beef suet; mix 
together, and moisten with three eggs; season with 
salt, pepper, a little butter, a teaspoonful of mace, and 
some cayenne pepper. Roll forcemeat into cakes, and 



70 The Complete Cook Book. 

fry them. They are pretty laid around a turkey or 
chicken. 

BONED TURKEY A LA PROSPEEITY OF 
AMERICA. 

Procure a fine, tender, young Rhode Island turkey, 
weighing eight pounds. Singe, draw, and neatly wipe 
the interior. Make an incision right along the back. 
Begin boning from the neck down toward the breast, on 
both sides, being very careful not to make any holes in 
the skin, as it should remain perfectly intact. Make 
an incision from the first joint, then bone both legs. 
Cut away also, very carefully, the two wing bones. 
Season the inside with one pinch of salt and half a 
pinch of pepper, evenly divided. Place ifc on a dish, 
and lay it in the ice box until needed. Take two pouEds 
of lean, raw veal, three pounds of fresh pork, and half 
a pound of larding pork, all cut up into small dice- 
shaped pieces. Season with two pinches of salt, one 
pinch of white pepper, the third of a saltspoonful of 
grated nutmeg, and the same quantity of thyme. Mix 
all well together. Place all in the chopping machine, 
and chop it exceedingly fine, repeating the process, if 
necessary, until it is chopped to perfection. Should 
there be any sinews among the ingredients, remove 
them all. Place on a cold dish, and put away in the 
ice box to cool until the following is prepared : Have 
ready a quarter of a pound of the end (red) part of a 
cooked . smoked beef tongue, eighteen medium-sized 
sound truflfles, both tongue and truffles cut in dice-shaped 
pieces half an inch square. Take the forcemeat from 
the ice box, and thoroughly mix the tongue and truffles 
with it, pouring in also a wineglassful of Madeira 
wine. ' Half a cup of well-peeled pistache can be added 
if at hand. Take the turkey from the ice box, spread it 
on a clean table (skin side downward). Then, with 
a keen knife, cut away even slices from the breasts, 
arrange them on the thin, so that the turkey should 
have an equal thickness all over. Place the forcemeat 
right in the center of the turkey, column-shaped, leav- 
ing a clear space of two inches at each end, and of four 
inches at each side. Spread on a table a strong, clean 



The Complete Cook Book. 71 

napkin, Bprinkling over it a little cold water. Fold up 
first both ends of the turkey, then both sides, so that 
the four ends should be enveloped ; gently lift, and lay 
it right in the center of the napkin, EoU it carefully 
in the napkin. Tightly tie one end first, then the other, 
as firmly as possible, taking in the slack of the napkin. 
Place it in a large saucepan on the hot range, with the 
carcass, and whatever bones and debris pertain to it, 
completely cover with cold water, place the lid on, and 
when coming to a boil thoroughly skim it, then add one 
medium-sized, sound, scraped carrot, and one well- 
peeled onion with three cloves stuck in. Season with 
one pinch of salt, and then let boil on a moderate fire 
for fully two and a half hours. Eemove the galantine 
with a skimmer ; let cool enough so that it can be easily 
handled. Cut the strings at both ends; roll it over 
again as before, and tightly tie both ends exactly as 
before. Lay it in a fiat tin pem, placing on top of it a 
board the size of the boned turkey, and on top of it a 
weight of seven pounds, leaving the weight on until 
the galantine is thoroughly cold, which will take a 
whole night ; but avoid placing it in the ice box until 
thoroughly cold. Two days after the preparation it 
vrill be ready for use, keeping it in the ice box in the 
same napkin in which it was cooked. 

GRANDMOTHER'S FRIED CHICKEN. 

Take a young fat chicken, disjoint, wipe each piece 
clean with a wet cloth, pepper and salt it, and dredge 
with flour; mix a cup of lard and some fat bacon in a 
frying pan ; put in a few pieces of chicken and allow 
room enough for each piece to be turned without crowd- 
ing; cook slowly until nicely browned oh one side; then 
turn and brown the other. As fast as you fry the 
piece, place a dish over hot water, to keep the heat in 
them while you make the gravy. Pour from the pan 
all the fat except two tablespoonfuls ; add to this two 
tablespoonf uls of flour ; mix smooth and add one cup of 
milk; stir until it boils; add salt and pepper, and pour 
the gravy in a separate dish from the chicken. Some 
like the chicken cooked in the gravy for three minutes. 
It is also very nice fried in olive oil for a change. 



72 The Complete Cook Book. 

MY MOTHER'S STEWED CHICKEK 

Clean and wash a nice, fresh, stewing chicken ; cut 
it up as for frying and put it in a soup pot with enough 
boiling water to cover it; add one teaspoonful of salt 
and one teaspoonful of pepper; set it to boil very 
gently ; take off all skum as it rises. When the chicken 
is tender add one-quarter can of mushrooms, one cup of 
sweet milk, one stalk of celery, cut into small pieces a 
bunch of parsley and one tablespoonful of butter and one 
tablespoonful of flour, worked together; now add noodles 
or dumplings, which have been boiled in salted water 
until tender; and, just before removing from the fire, 
add one dozen large, fat oysters (when in season). 
When they are plumped up, dish and serve immedi- 
ately, 

MY MOTHER'S CHICKEN PIE. 

Take one nice chicken, cr two if they are small, cut 
them up as for frying and put them into a pot to stew 
with a thin slice of salt pork; cook one-half hour; then 
add one small onion and two Irish potatoes, chopped 
small, so that in cooking they may be thoroughly dis- 
solved with the gravy; season with white pepper and 
salt, a little celery salt and two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter; add two eggs, well beaten, with a cup of miJk; now 
drain off the liquor from a quart of oysters; boil and 
skim it and add to the chicken; line a baking dish with 
a rich biscuit crust; roll thin and put in a layer of 
chicken, then a layer of raw oysters, and repeat until 
the dish is filled ; season with salt, pepper and chopped 
parsley, and dot with small bits of breakfast bacon; 
add the gravy until it is even with the top layer; cover 
loosely with a crust have an opening in the center to 
allow steam to escape. If the liquor cooks away, add 
more; bake until the crust is done and you will have a 
good chicken pie. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 

Cut the chickens up as for fricassee, and lay them in 
milk and water for an hour; now wipe each piece dry; 
season lightly with pepper and salt, and dust with flouri 



The Complete Cook Book. 73 

put four tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan or a 
wineglassful of olive oil, and, when hot, fry the 
chicken a nice brown; then take it out and add to the 
fat a bruised clove of garlic, six chives or small green 
eschalots, one tablespoonful of minced parsley, one bay 
leaf, six chopped mushrooms, one pint of brown stock 
or cream; pepper and salt to taste; when hot put in the 
chicken and simmer very slowly ; when tender take out 
the chicken and pile it high in the center of a hot dish ; 
add one tablespoonful of flour to the gravy; boil up 
quickly, skim and pour over the chicken ; garnish with 
pieces of fried bread. 

KOAST CHICKEN. 

Singe, draw and wash well a large chicken in two 
quarts of water, in which one teaspoonful of soda has 
been dissolved ; stuff it and place it in a roasting pan 
without water; dust it with salt and pepper; cover it 
with thin slices of fat pork and soft butter ; dredge with 
flour, and add two tablespoonfuls of broth ; roast in a 
hot oven, and, when the flour is brown, baste with the 
fat and afterward with two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
melted in three-quarters cup of hot water, and baste 
often and dust with flour after basting; more water 
may be added, if necessary; cook fifty to sixty min- 
utes ; serve with its own gravy, made by sifting one 
tablespoonful of flour and one cup of hot water in the 
fat; add a little chopped parsley and serve with rings 
of hard-boiled eggs. 

Deessing : Equal parts of home-made bread and 
corn bread; mash with butter; season with salt, pep- 
per, chopped onion, one teaspoonful of parsley, one- 
half teaspoonfnl of celery seeds and sage, if you like; 
moisten with stock or milk. 

GRAVY. 

Brown together in a saucepan one tablespoonful of 
butter and one tablespoonful of flour. Add pepper and 
salt to taste, one teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, 
one-half can of mushrooms, and cook ten minutes. 



74 The Complete Cook Book. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES. 

Heat together one-half cup of milk, one cup of bread 
crumbs, one-quarter can of mushrooms chopped fine, and 
one-quarter cup of butter. When hot, stir in one cup 
of cold cooked chicken, chopped fine; season with salt 
and red pepper to taste, and add a few drops of onion 
juice, one teaspoonfui of chopped parsley, one-quarter 
teaspoonful of c«lery salt, and, if you like, one-half 
teaspoonfui of brown ginger. Last of all add the stiff 
beaten whites of four eggs. Brush your mould with 
butter and fill with the chicken mixture. Stand in a 
pan of hot water, and cook twenty-five minutes. Brain 
timbales are made by this same recipe, except you use 
brains instead of chicken, and only one-quarter cup of 
milk. 

CHICKEN FLAP JACKS— OEIGINAL, 

One and one-half pints of cold cooked chicken, turkey 
or veal, chopped coarsely, and six mushrooms chopped 
fine. Put into a saucepan three-quarters cup of stock 
or milk, two tablespoonfuls of sweet butter, salt and 
white pepper to taste; one teaspoonfui of chopped pars- 
ley, a few drops of onion juice and one raw egg. 
Simmer ten minutes and set aside until ready to use. 

Crust: One pint of flour, two teaspoonfula of baking 
powder, one generous tablespoonful of lard and butter 
mixed, one-half teaspoonf u of salt and one scant teacup- 
ful of milk and water mixer". Sift one cup of flour into 
a bowl and sift into it two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der; add lard and salt, and stir into a batter with milk. 
Now beat all together very briskly until light. Then 
sift on your biscuit board your second cup of flour; 
make a well in it and pour in your batter and stir the 
dough to a soft smooth ball. Roll it out one-quarter 
inch thick upon a board lightly dusted with flour; cut 
into rounds the size of an ordinary turn-over; put a 
large tablespoonful of chicken mixture in the center. 
Brush the edges with white of egg, and turn the crust 
over and cut with a roller, or pinch the edges together 
and fry in hot fat and serve with white sauce and green 
peas. 



The Complete Cook Book. 75 

BEOILED CHICKEN. 

Singe and split a young chicken down the back, and 
wash it in two quarts of cold water and one teaspoon- 
ful of soda; when perfectly clean wipe dry with a cloth ; 
place then on a dish, season with salt and pepper, and 
one tablespoonful of olive oil or soft butter; rub them 
well in the seasoning; place in a double gridiron and 
broil ten minutes on each side over a clear fire; or, put 
In a hot oven, with inside down, and it will bake in 
half an hour; garnish with breakfast bacon and cress 
and serve with tartare sauce. 

SMOTHEEED CHICKEN. 

Clean a chicken, too old for broiling; split down the 
back, and put it breast upward in a shallow pan ; pour 
over it one cup of boiling water, and cover tightly to 
keep in the steam. Cook half an hour ; then baste 
with the hot water, rub all over with softened butter, 
and dredge with salt and pepper. Baste often, keep 
closely covered, and cook till tender. It should be yel- 
low, not dark brown. Thicken the gravy; add chopped 
parsley, salt, and pepper, and pour it over the chicken. 

PLAIN CHICKEN PIE. 

Take two nice chickens, or more if they are small, 
cut them up as for frying, and put them in a pot to 
stew with some slices of fat meat. Let them cook for 
half an hour, then add a few onions and four Irish 
potatoes sliced small, so that in cooking they may be 
thoroughly dissolved in the gravy. Season with pep- 
per, salt, a little parsley, and a quarter of a pound of 
Bweet butter. When it is cooked well there should be 
gravy enough to cover the chickens. If you want it 
very nice, beat up two eggs, and stir into the stew with 
half a pint of milk. Line a five-quart pan with a crust 
made like soda biscuit, only more shortening; put in 
the chickens and gravy ; then cover with a top crust. 
Bake until the crust is done and you will have a good 
chicken pie. 



76 The Complete Cook Book. 

BOILED CHICKENS. 

After the chickens are cleaned and trussed fold them 
in a nice white cloth, put them in a large stewpan and 
cover them with boiling water ; boil them gently, and 
skim carefully so long as any scum rises; let them 
simmer slowly as that will make them plump and 
white, while fast boiling will make them dark and lose 
flavor. When done lay them on a hot dish, and pour 
celery, oyster, or egg sauce over them. Serve some 
also in a boat, as it keeps hot longer than when poured 
over the fowls. Boiled tongue or ham should be served 
with boiled chicken. If the chicken is not very tough, 
an hour or an hour and a quarter is sufficient to boil it. 

CHICKEN FOECEMEAT. 

Chop in pieces t\fo raw chicken breasts, and pound 
them in a mortar. Soak the same quantity of bread in 
milk, and add same. Also add the yolks of three or 
four eggs seasoned with two teaspoonfuls of salt, a level 
teaspoonfiil of pepper and a teaspoonful of nutmeg. 
Mix well together, strain through a sieve, put in re- 
frigerator, and use as needed. When desiring to make 
a chicken cream forcemeat, add six teaspoonfuls of 
cream. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES. 

One pint cold chopped chicken — white meat preferred 
— one cupful grated bread crumbs, one cupful milk, 
lump of butter size of a walnut, salt and pepper to 
taste, whites of four eggs. Boil together the bread 
crumbs and milk until they thicken, then add gradu- 
ally the chicken, butter and seasoning. Eemov6 from 
the fire and when cold and just before serving add the 
stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Butter well some tim- 
bale cups — any ordinary baking cups will answer — pour 
in the mixture, filling cups about two-thirds full, and 
place in a pan containing boiling water. Bake in a 
moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. When 
done turn out on a platter and pour around them the 
cream sauce. 



The Complete Cook Book. 'j'j 

Cream Sauce: Melt one tablespoonf ul of butter, add 
one tablespoonfnl of flour, and when a light brown add 
one cupful of milk. Cook until it thickens, season with 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, and JTist 
before serving add the yolks of two eggs beaten with 
one tablespoonful of water. 

EOAST GOOSE. 

Singe, remove the pin-feathers, and before it is cut 
or drawn, wash and scrub thoroughly in warm soap- 
suds to open and cleanse the pores, and render the oil 
more easy to be extracted. Then draw. Wash and 
rinse the inside in clear water, and wipe dry. Stuff 
with mashed potatoes highly seasoned with onion, sage, 
salt and pepper, or with equal parts of bread crumbs, 
chopped apples, and boiled onions seasoned with salt, 
sage and pepper. Sew and truss; put on a rack 
in a pan, and cover the breast with slices of fat salt 
pork. Place in the oven for three-quarters of an 
hour. The pork fat is quickly drawn out by the heat, 
flows over the goose, and aids in drawing out the 
oil. When considerable oil is extracted, take the pan 
from the oven, and pour off all the oil. Eemove the 
pork, and dredge the goose with flour, and place again 
in the oven. When the flour is browned, add a little 
hot water, and baste often. Dredge with flour after 
basting. Cook until brown and tender. Make a gravy 
as on page 73. Garnish with watercresses. Serve 
with apple sauce. 

ROASTED GROUSE. 

They are roasted with the head under one wing, and 
like all game must not be overdone. They take about 
eighteen minutes for a young bird, and are served with 
a rich gravy in the dish, while bread sauce and sauce 
poivrade accompany them like the partridges. 

SCOTCH STEW OF GROUSE. 

Cut the raw grouse into quarters, and put them with 
a lump of butter, a bunch of sweet herbs and a clove of 
garlic into a stewpan. Fry them over a brisk fire until 



78 The Complete Cook Book. 

they become brown, then throw in a glass of port wine 
and a spoonful of good mnshroom ketchup and season 
with pepper and salt. Let the grouse simmer slowly 
for fifteen minutes and serve with fried apples. 

GOOSE, WITH CHESTNUTS A LA CHIPOLITA. 

Get the goose ready as usual. To prepare the stufl5ng 
take sixty large chestnuts, peel them by scalding, then 
put them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, one 
onion chopped fine, and a sprig of parsley; chop and 
mix all together and stuff the goose with it ; mix with 
the chestntits one pint of good broth, and stew them 
down in it before stuflSng the goose. Boil down the 
gravy very much, and when the goose is served, add 
the juice of two oranges, half a pound of currant jelly, 
and a lemon peel, in the gravy. Pour this over the 
goose when it goes to the table. 

BROWN" GRAVY FOR ROAST GOOSE OR 
GOSLING. 

After the gosling is roasted or baked, pour nearly all 
the fat out of the pan, but do not pour away the brown 
part of the drippings; put the pan over the fire, stir 
into it a heaping tablespoonful of flour and let the flour 
brown. Then stir in a pint of boiling water, season the 
gravy palatably with salt and pepper, let it boil for a 
moment, and then serve it with the gosling. The 
giblets, cooked as directed in the recipe for giblet gravy 
given below, may be added to this gravy. In that 
case, the broth in which the giblets were boiled would 
be used instead of boiling water to make the gravy. 

GIBLET GRAVY FOR ROAST GOOSE OR 
GOSLING. 

Skin the head and neck of the gosling ; remove all 
pin-feathers from the tips of the wings ; scald and scrape 
the legs and feet, after cutting off the claws; clean the 
heart and gizzard, and cut away the gall from the liver; 
put them all into a saucepan with enough boiling water 
to entirely cover them, with salt and pepper in a pala- 



The Complete Cook Book. 79 

table quantity, and boil tbem until the gosling is nearly 
done; then remove all the bones and chop the flesh and 
skin. Save the water in -which they were boiled ; put 
over the fire in a saucepan a heaping tablespoonful each 
of butter and flour, and stir them until they are brown ; 
gradually stir in the chopped giblets and broth. If 
there is not enough broth to make a gravy of the proper 
consistency, add a little boiling water ; season the gravy 
palatably with salt and pepper, let it boil for a moment, 
and serve with the roast gosling. 

SUBSTITUTE FOR ROAST DUCK. 

Many persons are very partial to roast duck, but 
ducks are expensive where there are many mouths to 
feed. A very good substitute is the following: Take 
a small shoulder of mutton— if too large, it must be 
halved — let the butcher bone it for you ; he will do it 
better than it can be done at home, because his knives 
are sharper. Put the bones on to stew with some vege- 
tables for soup, and make a duck stuffing with sage and 
onions. Quantity required : about four onions par- 
boiled, four or five sage leaves scalded and chopped 
finely with the onions, two ounces each of bread crumbs 
and mashed potatoes, plenty of pepper and salt. Miz 
these together and lay on the mutton, which sew up 
afterward in the shape of a duck as much as possible. 
Supposing the whole of the shoulder has been used, the 
process will not be so difficult. In any case, the stuffing 
must be well secured in the first place ; afterward the 
appearance of the dish may be studied. Roast the 
mutton in the oven, basting it frequently, and make 
gravy in the tin as for an ordinary roast. Apple sauce 
is an indispensable accompaniment. The mutton will 
take quite an hour and a half to cook, and will be very 
good cold the second day. 

DUCKS, TAME AND WILD. 

Tame ducks are prepared for the table the same as 
young geese — that is, stuffed with bread, butter, pepper 
and onion, or with mashed and seasoned Irish potatoes. 
Wild ducks should be fat, the claws small and supple; 
the hen is the more delicate. Do not scald wild ducks. 



8o The Complete Cook Book. 

but pick them clean and singe over a blaze. Draw and 
wipe them well inside with a cloth; rub pepper and 
salt inside and out; stuff each duck well with bread 
and butter stuffing. If the ducks aie at all fishy, use 
onion in the stuffing, and baste very freely. It is well 
to parboil them in onion and water before stuffing ; 
throw away the water and then proceed to stuff and 
roast them. Put in the pan a teacup of butter, baste 
well with this, and when nearly done, dredge flour over 
the ducks, and brown them nicely. For the gravy you 
must boil the giblets; while the ducks are cooking 
mince these fine; add pepper, salt, and a teaspoonful of 
browned flour. Take a glass of wine and a large 
spoonful of currant jelly; heat them and serve with the 
ducks, mixed with the giblets, or serve it in a dish 
alone, as you like. 

CANVAS-BACK DUCKS EOASTED. 

Select two fine fat canvas-back ducks, singe aild clean 
well ; throw a pinch of salt inside, run in the head from 
the end of the neck to the back, truss nicely, and place 
in a roasting pan. Sprinkle a little salt over, put them 
in a brisk oven, and let.cook for twenty minutes; ar- 
range on a very hot dish, untruss, throw two table- 
spoonfuls of white broth into each duck, and serve with 
slices of fried hominy and currant jelly. 

CANVAS-BACK DUCK BROILED. 

Select two fine fat canvas-back ducks; split them 
down the back without detaching them, and lay them 
on a dish to season with a good pinch of salt, half a 
pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of oil. Roll them 
in well, and allow them to broil seven to eight minutes 
on each side. Put them on a hot dish, spread over 
some maitre d'hotel butter, garnish nicely and serve. 

ROAST DUCKS. 

Pick, singe, and remove the crop, entrails, oil bag, 
legs, and pinions. Wipe, truss, dredge with salt, 
pepper, butter, and flour. Bake in a hot oven twenty 



The Complete Cook Book. 8i 

minutes if liked rare, or thirty minutes if preferred well 
done. Serve with olive sauce and green peas. Geese 
and ducks have a strong flavor, and are improved by 
stuffing the craw and body with apples cored and quar- 
tered. The apples absorb the strong flavor, therefore 
should not be eaten. Celery and onions are also placed 
inside the duck to improve its flavor. 

BRAISED DUCKS. 

Ducks that are tough and unfit to roast are improved 
by being braised with onions, carrots and turnips. Or 
they may be stewed, and served with canned peas. 

ROAST DUCKS. 

Pick, singe, draw and take out the entrails, oil bag, 
crop and pinions; if old or strong parboil them in 
onions and water before stuffing them ; throw away the 
water in which they are parboiled. Now, salt, pepper, 
butter and flour your ducks and stuff them with a dress- 
ing made as follows : One-half cup of Irish potatoes 
mashed with butter, one-half cup of bread crumbs, a 
very little sage, one small onion chopped fine, cayenne, 
a teaspoonful of celery seeds, one tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley and one egg ; put the ducks in a bak- 
ing pan, pour in one-half cup of hot water and one-half 
cup of butter, and let them roast, basting often. 
Usually a half hour will be about the right length of 
time to cook them ; dust with flour and let them brown. 

GRAVY FOR DUCKS. 

Boil the giblets, chop them up, add some of the gravy 
from the ducks, salt and pepper to taste, and thicken 
with a little flour; garnish with thin slices of lemon 
and currant jelly. If you do not parboil ducks stuff 
them with tart apples, cored and quartered. The apples 
will absorb all the strong flavor and must not be eaten. 

ROAST BIRDS. 

Draw, and wash quickly ; season with salt and pep- 
per. Pin a thin slice of salt pork on the breast. Put 
on a shallow pan, and bake in a hot oven, fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Baste often. Serve on toast with 



82 The Complete Cook Book. 

currant jelly or with bread sauce. Small birds may be 
baked in sweet potatoes, or if large cut in halves, using 
the breasr only. Cut the potatoes in halves length- 
wise, make a cavity in each half, season the bird with 
salt, pepper, and butter; fit it into the potato, put the 
other half over it, and bake till the potatoes are soft. 
Eemove the string, tie with a bright ribbon, and serve 
in the potatoes, garnished with parsley. An inviting 
dish to serve to an invalid. Small birds are also 
broiled or stewed. 

MOCK PHEASANT. 

It often happens that at a small hotel or restaurant 
there is sometimes only one pheasant in the house and 
an order for two is hard to fill, I therefore oflfer the fol- 
lowing recipe as likely to prove acceptable to such as 
are in the predicament: Take a nice, plump young 
fowl, as near the size of the pheasant as , you possibly 
can. Let it be plucked with the head on, and very 
carefully draw it, and arrange it exactly like the pheas- 
ant; let the fowl and pheasant be larded exactly alike 
on the breast and legs. Put paper over the breast that 
it may not scorch up; roast them together in one pan 
side by side, baste them together with the same basting. 
If these directions are implicitly followed no one will 
detect the difference between the two birds. 

WOODCOCKS. 

The woodcock, if properly dressed, is a highly flav- 
ored and truly delicious bird. In choosing them let it 
be well understood that, however genuine they may be, 
woodcocks are good for nothing unless they are fat, 
and no dish looks so bad or has less flavor than the thin 
half-starved birds of this species which we find very 
often in the New York markets. There is more art in 
roasting woodcocks than any other bird of the same 
size. They require constant attention during the opera- 
tion of roasting them, as they must be very little done. 
The flesh of the woodcock, like that of all dark-fleshed 
game, being digestible when almost raw, and losing its 



The Complete Cook Book. 8;j 

flavor if roasted as long as a partridge, their cooking 
occupies but little time; therefore a cook should never 
leave the woodcock from the moment they reach the 
oven until they are done. The most delicate parts of 
the woodcock are the legs and tail, next the breast; the 
latter should be very much underdone, and the legs a 
little more. 

SALMIS OF WOODCOCK. 

Try the same recipe as for partridges and you will 
find it much superior to the ordinary salmis. 

SNIPES. 

Snipes should bo treated like a woodcock. The pecu- 
liarity about them is, that they are to be found equally 
in the frozen regions of Siberia and the scorched plains 
of lower India. 

PLOVER. 

These birds are roasted without being drawn and are 
treated in all respects like the woodcock. Plover eggs 
are considered a great delicacy and found in great 
abundance. 

ENGLISH SNIPE— BROILED. 

Pick, singe, draw, and dry well six fine English 
snipe ; remove the skin from the heads, split them in 
two without detaching the parts, and put them on a 
dish. Season with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pep- 
per, and atablespoonful of oil. Roll them in well, then 
put them to broil (with the bills stuck into the breasts), 
and let them cook for four minutes on each side. Pre- 
pare a hot dish with six toasts, arrange the snipe over, 
spread a gill of maitre d'hotel butter on top, decorate the 
dish with a little watercress, and serve. 

QUAILS. 

They are very common and found as plentiful in 
Europe as here. I never could find a fine flavor in this 
bird, which appears to me to have a greasy, tasteless 



84 The Complete Cook Book. 

flesh, but nevertheless it is used by the million, both 
here and in Europe. To roast a quail, treat it the same 
as a partridge, but without being larded. Wild ducks 
should form the remaining portion of matter to be 
treated in this way. 

SILVY'S BROILED QUAIL. 

Six fat, nice quail; singe and wipe carefully; divide 
down the back; brush them with olive oil, dust very 
lightly with salt and pepper, and broil them over a 
charcoal fire. Have in a cup some melted butter, salt 
and pepper, and as they broil baste them with it. Serve 
on toast and garnish with slices of broiled bacon or cur- 
rant jelly. They are also nice stuffed with stewed 
prunes, stewed apples, or mashed and seasoned Irish 
potatoes, and baked with a piece of breakfast bacon 
pinned over each breast. 

QUAIL PIES. 

Pick, clean, wash and dry the birds, place in a double 
boiler and steam for twenty-five minutes over a brisk 
fire; while the quail are steaming make the gravy as 
follows : Take the liquor in a half-pound can of mush- 
rooms, one-quarter pint of oyster liquor, one-quarter 
cup of cream or milk, thicken with three tablespoonfuls 
of browned flour rubbed with three tablespoonfuls of 
butter; put in a thin slice of breakfast bacon, two 
stalks of celery cut fine, salt and cayenne to taste ; boil 
all together about fifteen minutes and strain; then add 
a well-beaten egg. Have a dozen individual stone 
China dishes lined with short pie crust, lay a bird in 
each dish with a slice of lemon, a sprig of parsley, three 
mushrooms and two oytters. Now, pour in your gravy 
and bake in an oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Serve 
smoking hot in the same dish in which they are baked ; 
salt and pepper to taste. The crust is shortened by 
cooking equal quantities of butter and oil. This same 
recipe is also nice baked in one large pie. 

QUAILS ROASTED— PLAIN. 

Pick six fine, tender, fat quails, singe, draw and wipe 
them well; truss them, laying a thin layer of lard on 



The Complete Cook Book. 85 

the breasts. Put them in a roasting pan, spreading a 
very little butter on top of each quail ; then pour half 
a cupful of water in the pan. Season with a pinch of 
salt, and let cook in the oven for eighteen minutes. 
Place on a hot dish sis heart-shaped pieces of toast; 
untruss the quails, and arrange them on top,, decorating 
with a little watercress. Strain the gravy into a sauce 
bowl and serve it separately. 

QUAILS BROILED WITH BACON. 

Have six fine fat quails. Singe, draw and wipe 
them well. Split them through the back without 
separating the parts, and break the two leg bones. Put 
them on a dish ; season with a pinch of salt, half a 
pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of sweet oil, mix- 
ing them in well, and put them to broil on a moderate 
fire for six minutes on each side. Arrange six toasts 
on a hot dish, lay the quails on top, and pour a gill of 
maitre d'hotel butter over, decorating with six slices of 
broiled bacon, and serve. 

PHEASANTS. 

Now we come to the king of English game, the 
pheasani. The difference between the old and the 
young cock pheasant is easily seen; the former has 
long sharp spurs, and those of the latter are short and 
blunt. They are roasted precisely in the manner like 
partridges, except that they ought to be larded on the 
breast and legs, as they require a little more in doing. 

TO BROIL PARTRIDGES. 

Place them in salt and water, an hour or two before 
broiling. When taken out, wipe them dry, and rub 
them all over with fresh butter, pepper and salt. First 
broil the under or split side on the gridiron, over 
bright, clear coals, turning until the upper side is of a 
fine, light brown. It must be cooked principally from 
the under side. When done, rub well again with fresh 
butter, and if not ready to serve them immediately, put 
them in a large shallow tin bucket, cover it and set it 



86 The Complete Cook Book. 

over a pot or kettle of boiling water, which will keep 
them hot without making them hard or dry, and will 
give time for the many "last things" to be done before 
serving a meal. When served, sift over them powdered 
cracker, first browned. 

EOASTED PARTRIDGES. 

The birds must be plucked very carefully and neatly 
trussed. Put them in a hot oven with a band of lard 
or a piece of white paper over the breast. They should 
rather be under than overdone; from fifteen to twenty 
minutes, and even less if they are particularly young, 
will be sufBcient to cook them. They should be well 
basted, and ought to be served up in some good gravy, 
with bread sauce in one tureen and sauce poivrade in 
the other. Some people lard them, but this is a mat- 
ter of choice and unimportant. 

SALMIS OF PARTRIDGE. 

The best salmis I ever tasted was at the house of a 
friend in Paris, who was renowned for the excellence of 
his table. It is quite different from the usual salmis, 
and having expressed my approbation to the chef de 
cuisine, he kindly gave me the following notes: The 
wings, breast, legs and rumps of the bird were cut up 
as if for eating and kept in readiness. There were four 
partridges roasted for the occasion, and very little 
done. The livers of these birds, together with a fine 
white liver of a capon, roasted very little, were braised 
together in the silver dish in which the salmis was 
served us. Over this liver was squeezed the juice of 
four lemons, and the rind of one of them grated over the 
juice. The limbs of the birds were now placed upon 
the dish, seasoned with salt, pepper, powdered mace 
and allspice. To this was added two large teaspoonf uls 
of French mustard prepared with tarragon vinegar, 
diluted in a glass of Chablis. The dish was now placed 
over a very small fire and the meat was continually 
moved with a spoon and fork in order that each piece 
might be fully saturated with the sauce. When at 



The Complete Cook Book. 87 

length the latter approached the hoiling point, a spoon- 
ful of olive oil was poured equally upon all parts of the 
salmis, which was then removed from the fire and 
stirred an instant longer. 

TO COOK PARTRIDGES AND PHEASANTS. 

Place them in a steamer, over a pot of boiling water, 
till tender. Have ready a saucepan of large fresh 
oysters, scalded just enough to make them plump and 
season with pepper sauce, butter, and a little salt. 
Rub the cavity of the birds with salt and pepper, fill 
with oysters and sew up. Broil till a light brown. 
Placeon a hot dish and sift over them browned cracker. 
Add a large tablespoonful of butter and one of pounded 
cracker to the oyster liquor. Boil it up once and pour 
into the dish, but not over the birds. 

SQUABS BROILED ON TOAST, WITH BACON. 

Singe, draw, cut the necks off, and wipe nicely three 
very good-sized squabs; split them without detaching 
the parts, then lay them on a dish, and season with a 
pinch of. salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoon- 
ful of sweet oil; roll them in well,' and put them to 
broil for six minutes on eacli side. Prepare a dish with 
six toasts, arrange the squabs over, and spread a gill of 
maitre d'hotel butter on top. Decorate the dish with 
six slices of broiled bacon, and serve. 

PIGEON PIE. 

Take six young pigeons. After they are drawn, 
trussed, and singed, stuff them with the chopped livers 
mixed with parsley, salt, pepper, and a small piece of 
butter. Cover the bottom of the dish with rather small 
pieces of beef. On the beef, place a thin layer of 
chopped parsley and mushrooms, seasoned with pepper 
and salt. Over this place the pigeons, between each 
putting the yolk of a hard-boiled egg. Add some 
brown sauce or gravy. Cover with puff paste and bake 
the pie for an hour and a half. 



88 The Complete Cook Book. 

VENISON. 

Venison is the finest game we have South. The 
haunch or saddle is always roasted; it requires constant 
attention, and should be turned and basted frequently 
while cooking. Cover the fat with thick white paper 
while cooking; when nearly done, take off the paper 
and baste well with claret wine, butter and flour. Cur- 
rant jelly is the usual accompaniment of roasted veni- 
son, and is preferred by some to wine in cooking it. 

SADDLE OF VENISON— JELLY SAUCE. 

Procure a saddle of a small venison weighing about 
five pounds; pare it neatly, remove the sinews from 
the surface; and lard it with a larding needle as finely 
as possible; tie it three times around. Put into the 
roasting pan one sliced onion and one sliced carrot; lay 
in the saddle, seasoning with one pinch of salt; spread 
half an ounce of butter over, and put it in a brisk oven 
to roast for forty minutes, basting it frequently with 
its own gravy. Untie before lifting it from the pan, 
arrange neatly on a hot dish ; pour into the pan half a 
glassful of Madeira wine and a gill of white broth; let 
come to a boil on the stove. Skim the fat off the 
gravy, straining the lean part over the saddle. Serve 
with half a pint of hot currant jelly sauce separately. 
All saddles of venison are prepared the same way, only 
with different sauces and garnishings. 

BEOILED VENISON. 

It is best broiled over charcoal. When the broiler is 
hot grease the bars with olive oil ; place your steak on 
them and sear it quickly, first on one side and then on 
the other, turning it frequently ; it should be rare. 
When done, put on a hot dish, season it with butter, 
salt and pepper, and set in the oven a few moments. 
Serve very hot. 

VENSION. 

Venison is easily digested, and should always be 
cooked rare. The saddle or loin is the best cut. Riib 
a venison steak with a little olive oil and brown it 



The Complete Cook Book, 89 

quickly in one tablespoonful of butter, and when done 
remove it to a hot platter and dust with salt and pepper. 
Now, add to the venison gravy two tablespoonfuls of 
hot water, two tablespoonfuls of port or any red wine, 
salt and pepper to taste, and a lump of butter rolled in 
flour ; heat and pour over the venison and garnish with 
watercress and serve with currant jelly. 

RABBIT. 

Skin, clear, wash and wipe each piece of rabbit dry; 
roll in flour and fry in butter until brown; dust with 
salt and pepper. Now into a saucepan put two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and two tablespoonfuls of gravy, a 
suspicion of garlic, one sprig of parsley, one-half can of 
mushrooms, one teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, 
and a few small pieces of lemon peel ; put the fried rab-. 
bit in this mixture and simmer until tender. Garnish 
with olives and thin slices of lemon. 

STEWED RABBITS. 

Select two nice fresh rabbits; skin, clean, well and 
cut in small pieces ; let it lay in salted cold water one 
hour; then put in a stew kettle, covering with cold water; 
place on the stove and boil until tender. Season with 
salt and pepper. Rub smooth together two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour and one tablespoonful of butter, and stir 
intc the gravy. A little lemon juice is an improve- 
ment. Serve all together on a platter. 

A DISH RABBIT. 

When rabbits are plentiful in the markets, it is 
well to try new methods of cooking. The following 
is excellent: Leave the kidneys in the loins; rub the 
meat with moist sugar and let stand several hours; 
then place in a diph containing one gill of vine- 
gar, one minced onion and a bay leaf. Let it stand 
forty-eight hours, turning and basting it several times. 
Then dtain and lard it, browning it quickly in a frying 
pan. Season the butter in which it is browned with 



90 The Complete Cook Book. 

one-half teaspoonful of salt and one saltspoonful of pep- 
per, adding the marinade in which it stood for two 
days. Cover closely and steam till very tender, bast- 
ing several times. Transfer to a hot dish; add the 
juice of a lemon, a heaping teaspoonful of currant or 
other tart jelly ; thicken, strain, and send to table in 
sauce tureen. 

HARE— ROASTED, STUFFED. 

Procure two fine hares, cut them in half, that is, 
separating the fore quarters from the hind quarters. 
Bone the saddles down to the legs, but not the legs; 
place them on a deep earthen dish, pour ina wineglass- 
ful of white wine, adding one medium-sized sound, sliced 
lemon, one peeled and sliced onion, one sprig of thyme, 
seasoning with a pinch and a half of salt, a pinch of 
pepper, and two cloves. Roll the saddles well several 
times in the seasoning, and put aside to steep for at 
least twelve hours. 

Stuffing : Place in a saucepan on the hot range 
half a good-sized, sound, chopped onion with a table- 
spoonful of butter; cook for one minute, then add two 
ounces of sausage meat, six chopped mushrooms, a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, season with half a pinch of 
salt and the third of a pinch of pepper. Cook all 
together for six minutes. Let cool, until needed. 

Peel four fine, sound apples, cut each into six equal 
parts, remove the cores; place them in a pan on the fire 
with half a glassful of white wine or good cider. Boil 
for four minutes, then place this with the above force- 
meat, and mix all well together. Take the marinated 
hares, stuff the saddles (which were boned) with the 
above stufiSng evenly, give them a nice round shape, and 
tie so as to hold them firm; arrange a piece of larding 
pork over each saddle, then lay them in a roasting pan, 
with one carrot and one onion cut into slices and placed 
at the bottom of the pan ; pour one pint of white broth 
right over the hares. Place in the hot oven, and roast 
for forty-five minutes, taking care to baste frequently 
with its own gravy. Remove from the oven, untie, 
dress on a hot dish, strain the gravy over the saddles, 



The Complete Cook Book. 91 

nicely decorate the dish with heart-shaped croutons all 
around, and serve. The fore quarters can be utilized 
fur Civet, etc., as desired. 

HAEE OR RABBIT, ROASTED. 

If the hares and rabbits are young, the ears will be 
tender. Clean the rabbits and wash them through 
several waters. If to be roasted, they must be stuffed 
with grated bread crumbs, suet or butter, a chopped 
onion, the liver of the rabbit chopped, and a lemon peel 
grated. Moisten with eggs and a little claret. Put 
this in the rabbit and sew it up ; baste with butter, and 
cook for two hours. Make the gravy with the drip- 
pings in the pan, a little cream or milk, and flour. If 
the rabbits are old, they are good stewed slowly with 
sweet herbs, wine, water, and chopped onions, and 
thickened with flour and butter. 

FRIED RABBIT. 

Skin, clean, wash and wipe dry. Roll in flour and 
fry in hot butter. Season with salt and pepper. If 
the rabbit is not tender, parboil for half an hour first. 

ROAST RABBIT. 

Stew the rabbit. After boiling the haslet and liver, 
stew them with parsley, thyme, celery seed, butter, salt, 
and pepper, for gravy. Soak a piece of loaf bread, a 
short time, in water. Mix with it the yolk of an egg 
and some butter for stuffing; then soak it in milk and 
cream. Sprinkle the inside of the rabbit with salt and 
pepper, fill it with the above dressing, sew it up, and 
roast or bake quickly. 

BARBECUED RABBIT. 

Lay the rabbit in salt and water half an hour, scald 
in boiling water, wipe dry, grease with butter, and 
sprinkle with pepper and a little salt. Lay it on the 
gridiron, turning it so that it may cook through and 
through, without becoming hard and dry. When 



92 The Complete Cook Book. 

brown, lay on a hot dish, butter plentifully on both 
sides, and add a little salt and pepper. Set in the oven, 
while preparing four teaspoonfuls of vinegar, one of 
made mustard, and one of currant jelly or brown sugar. 
Pour this over the rabbit, rubbing it in, then pour over 
the gravy and serve hot. 

MY MOTHER'S STEWED SQUIREEL. 

Cut in quarters nice fat squirrels, after thoroughly 
cleaning and washing them in cold water ; put them 
into a soup pot with a few thin slices of salt pork, a 
tablespoonf ul of butter rolled in flour; salt and cayenne 
pepper to taste; cover them with hot water and simmer 
until tender; add home-made noodles which have been 
boiled in salt water untiliender, and when done add one- 
balf pint of oysters in their liquor; heat once more; add 
just a little cream or milk, and serve at once. 

SQUIRREL, OR YOUifG RABBIT PIE. 

Cut up two or three young squirrels or rabbits; put 
them in a saucepan to cook with two ounces of butter, a 
handful of chopped mushrooms, a bunch of parsley and 
two shallots chopped ; season with pepper and salt, and 
a little thyme or sweet herbs; cook them a light brown. 
Throw in a glass of white wine, a half cup of brown 
gravy from veal or chicken, and the juice of half a 
lemon. Toss all upon the fire fifteen or twenty min- 
utes, and it is ready to be put in the pie. If you have 
no gravy on hand, add to the rabbits a cup of sweet 
milk, and a piece of butter as large as a ben's egg. 
Make a nice paste, line the sides of the pan, pour in the 
stewed rabbit and cover with paste. Bake until a 
light brown, and eat cold or hot. It is almost as good 
as venison pie. 

SQUIRRELS STEWED. 

Skin, clean thoroughly, wash in cold water and wipe 
quickly two nice fat squirrels. Cut them in quarters, 
put in frying pan a layer of salt pork cut thin, then lay 
the squirrels in, seasoning with salt and pepper; if 



The Complete Cook Book. 93 

necessary, put in a little butter ; add enough hot water 
to prevent burning; cover and cook slowly until the 
squirrels are tender. When nearly done, remove the 
cover, so the water will boil away. Add enough cream 
or milk to moisten them, let them heat again and serve 
hot. 

TO BARBECUE SQUIRREL. 

Put some slices of fat bacon in an oven. Lay the 
squirrels on them and lay two slices of bacon on the top. 
Put them in the oven and let them cook until done. 
Lay them on a dish and set near the fire. Take out 
the bacon, sprinkle one spoonful of flour in the gravy 
and let it brown. Then pour in one teacup of water, 
one tablespoonful of butter, and some tomato or walnut 
ketchup. Let it cool, and then pour it over the squirrel. 



94 The Complete Cook Book. 



ROASTS, ETC. 



It ia a pity our cooks do not understand the virtues 
of larding a little more than they do. What is larding? 
Why, it is just cutting strips of fat bacon, and draw- 
ing them through some kinds of meats with a needle, 
previous to cooking them. A larding needle can be 
purchased at any hardware store for a very small sum 
and is a most useful thing to possess. The strip of 
bacon is slipped into it, and a small stitch taken in the 
meat; when drawn through, the bacon stands out at 
each end; if the stitches are taken in regular lines, the 
larding will be ornamental as well as useful. 

Fat ham, which could not be all eaten with the lean, 
might come in for larding very nicely, if care were 
taken not to break the strips as they were drawn in. I 
fancy the cooked ham would be rather more brittle than 
the uncooked bacon. 

What kind of meats are suitable for larding? Any- 
thing lean, or likely to be at all dry. Veal, hare, 
chicken, mutton, beef fillets, are frequently larded, 
either for entrees or other nice dishes ; but what I have 
in my mind at the present moment is liver. 

A calf's liver is, of course, the best and most delicate ; 
but I do not see at all why bullock's liver, which is 
very much cheaper, could not be made very nice by 
larding. Sheep's or lamb's liver also could be used, 
but these, probably, would be about the same price as 
the first mentioned. 

Very well, any sized liver, or part of one, can be 
taken, and it must be thoroughly larded all over the 
surface. The lardoons, or strips of fat bacon, should 
be an eighth of an inch in width and thickness, and 
from one and a quarter to one and a half inches in 



The Complete Cook Book. 95 

length. The larding needle has no eye, but is split into 
four at one end ; between these pieces you lay the end 
of the lardoon. Pass the point of the needle through a 
bit of the liver, about half an inch in width, slanting 
a little upward as you do so, and not going very 
deeply into the flesh; carefully draw it through, and as 
you do so, leave the strip of bacon inside, with the two 
ends peeping out at even distances. Continue the 
stitches in even lines, and doubtless, if the piece of liver 
weighs a pound or more, you have three lines of lar- 
doons across. 

I ought, perhaps, to have mentioned that it is best 
to wash liver in warm water in order to thoroughly 
cleanse it from blood. It should not stay in the water 
for any length of time, and should be well dried in a 
clean cloth previous to larding. 

It now remains to wrap the larded liver in a well- 
greased paper, and to roast in the oven for an hour and 
a half. Ten minutes before it is done, the paper may 
be removed for the liver to color, but it must not be 
allowed to dry up. 

Some kind of gravy or sauce is necessary, and the 
following will be found cheap and good. There will, 
no doubt, be some fat in the tin which has drained from 
the liver; if so, it will answer the purpose better than 
anything else; if there is not suflScient, some butter or 
dripping must be taken. 

There should be about two tablespoonfuls of fat when 
melted in a saucepan, and into this you must stir a 
tablespoonful of flour. When this is well mixed, add 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one teaspoonful of brown 
sugar, a dust of salt and pepper, and nearly half a pint 
of cold water. Stir all the time, and when it has boiled 
a minute, pour it over the liver in the hot dish. 

EOAST BEEF. 

Put the loin or fore ribs of beef in an iron baking 
pan, having first rubbed it with a little dry mustard or 
garlic, and dust with peppeh Add one-half cupful of 
stock or water and place in a very hot oven ; let the 
surface brown quickly; when it has baked fifteen min- 
utes, baste it, and baste often afterward, but do not add 



g6 The Complete Cook Book. 

more water. A large roast requires fifteen minutes' 
cooking to every pound; small ones ten minutes for 
every pound. After the first three-quarters of an hour, 
add a little salt to the fat and continue to baste. Serve 
with horseradish sauce and garnish with roasted or 
browned potatoes. 

RIB ROAST. 

Remove the backbone and ribs. Skewer or tie into a 
round shape, and prepare as for sirloin. Allow a 
longer time for roasting, as the meat is in a more com- 
pact form without the bones. Place it skin side up on 
the platter, and carve thin slices from the fiesh side. 



THE BACK OF THE RUMP. 

This is the best and cheapesb piece for roasting, as the 
meat is all good, and there is not as much bone as in 
other pieces. It is usually too large for a small family; 
but in cold weather it may be used to advantage, by 
cutting steaks from the thickest end, using the small 
end for a roast and the bones for soup. In carving the 
rump, when the bone has not been taken out, a deep 
cut should be made at the base, to loosen the meat; then 
the slices may be cut lengthwise or crosswise. When 
the family is large and all the meat is to be used, it "is 
well to cut it lengthwise. Should only a small quan- 
tity be needed, cut only from the small end, and save 
the tougher parts for a stew. Many think it more 
econoipical to serve the poorer parts the first day, as 
they are then more palatable, reserving the tender meat 
to be served cold. 

ROAST FROM THE ROUND. 

A slice three inches thick, from the best part of the 
top of the round, may be dredged with salt, pepper and 
flour, and roasted. Carve in thin slices, the same as 
steak. It is rather tough, but juicy and well flavored. 



The Complete Cook Book. 97 

ROAST TENDERLOIN A LA HUSSARD. 

Procure four pounds of fillet of beef, pare it nicely, 
and season with one pinch each of salt and pepper; but- 
ter the surface lightly, and lay it in a roasting pan, 
and put it to cook for ten minutes in a brisk oven, then 
set it aside to cool, and afterward lay on it some very 
fine chicken forcemeat, besprinkle with fresh bread 
crumbs, and baste with three tablespoonfuls of clarified 
butter. Roast it again for thirty- five minutes, and serve 
with three-quarters of a pint of Hussard garnishing on 
the dish. 

BRAISED BEEF A LA MORLAISIENNE. 

Procure a rump piece of beef weighing three pounds, 
lard it with four kirge pieces of salt pork, seasoned with 
a pinch of chopped parsley and a crushed garlic. Lay 
the beef in a saucepan, with pieces of salt pork or fat 
at the bottom, add one sliced onion, the round slices of 
one carrot, one sprig of thyme, and a bay leaf; season 
with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, then 
cover, and brown it well on both sides for ten minutes. 
Moisten with half a pint of white broth, and half a pint 
of Espagnole sauce, then cook for one hour. When 
finished, lay it on a dish, garnishing with six stu£Eed 
cabbages. Skim off the fat, strain the gravy, and pour 
the sauce over, or else serve it in a separate sauce bowl. 

TENDERLOIN PIQUE A LA PORTUGAISE. 

Roast four pounds of tenderloin as above, lay it on a 
hot dish, arrange six stuffed tomatoes around the ten- 
derloin at equal distances. Put in a saucepan half a 
pint of tomato sauce and allow it to boil for two min- 
utes; pour into a sauce bowl and serve separately. 

BRAISED BEEF A LA FRANCAISE. 

Procure a rump piece of beef weighing three pounds, 
lard it with four large pieces of salt pork, seasoned with 
a pinch of chopped parsley and a crushed garlic. Lay 
the beef in a saucepan, with pieces of salt pork or fat 
at the bottom, add one sliced onion, the round slices of 



98 The Complete Cook Book. 

a carrot, one sprig of thyme and a bay leaf; season 
with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper; cover 
and brown it well on both sides for ten minutes. Add 
a cupful of white broth and a cupful of Universal sauce, 
then cook for one hour. When finished lay it on a 
dish, garnished with six stuffed cabbages. Skim off 
the fat. 

BAKED BEEF— FEENCH STYLE. 

Secure a nice fat middle cut of rib or a pin- bone 
roast, weighing about ten pounds. Mix together two 
tablespoonfuls of olive oil and two of lemon juice. 
Moisten the meat all over with this mixture. Cut two 
onions into thin slices, add one tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, and a saltspoonful of white pepper. Put part 
of this mixture on a large dish, place the meat on top 
of it, then the remainder over the meat, cover and stand 
aside over night. Next day bake the same as plain 
baked beef. This preparation certainly improves the 
flavor of the meat and makes it more tender. 

BEAISING BEEF. 

The word "braise" means to cook meats slowly, in a 
closely-covered pan in the oven, the pan containing 
sufficient water to keep up a goodly quantity of steam. 
The meat should be placed in the bottom of the pan, the 
pan partly filled with boiling water, a teaspoonful of salt 
added, a sliced onion, a carrot, a sprig of parsley, and 
a bay leaf, if liked. Now cover the pan closely, and 
place on the bottom of a moderately hot oven, and bake 
or cook fifteen minutes to every pound of meat, basting 
every half hour. Meat thus cooked should be of a deli- 
cate brown, juicy and tender. You cannot roast in a 
braising pan — meat is always dry and tasteless. A 
brown sauce should be made from browned butter and 
flour, and the liquor from the bottom of the braising 
pan. All kinds of meats and poultry are braised in pre- 
cisely the same manner. 

TENDERLOIN PIQUE A LA FRANCAISE. 

Procure four pounds of tenderloin ; pare it well and 
lard it, using a fine needle. Line the bottom of a roast- 



The Complete Cook Book. 99 

ing pan with some pork skin, one sliced onion, one 
sliced carrot and half a bunch of well-washed parsley 
roots. Place the tenderloin on top ; add a pinch of salt, 
and roast in a brisk oven for thirty-five minutes, bast- 
ing it occasionally with its own juice. Dish it up, skim 
the fat off the gravy, then strain it over the fillet and 
pour half a pint of good Madeira sauce over, and gar- 
nish with potatoes. 

ROASTED BEEFSTEAKS. 

Tenderloin or porterhouse steaks are the best for 
broiling. Have a clear fire of coals to broil on ; rub 
the gridiron with a little fat of the meat ; lay on the 
steak without salting, let it broil gently until one side 
is done, then turn. Catch the blood as you turn it, to 
make the gravy rich. If the steak is a large firm one, 
take a quarter of a pound of butter and work into it 
pepper and salt. When the steak is done lay it on to 
this seasoned butter, keep it hot until the butter melts, 
turn the ^steak in it a few times, put the blood with the 
gravy, and serve hot, with tomato sauce or ketchup. 

TO ROAST BEEP IN A STOVE. 

A fine roasting piece of beef may, if properly man- 
aged, be baked in a stove so as to resemble beef roasted 
before a large, open fire. Prepare the meat as if for 
roasting, season it well with salt, pepper, and a little 
onion if liked. Set the meat on muffin ' rings, or a tri- 
vet in a dripping pan, and pour into the pan a pint or 
so of hot water to baste the meat with. Keep the oven 
hot and well closed on the meat ; when it begins to 
bake, baste it freely, using a long-handled spoon; it 
should be basted every fifteen minutes; add hot water 
to the pan as it wastes, that the gravy may not burn ; 
allow fifteen minutes to each pound of meat unless you 
wish it very rare. Half an hour before taking it up, 
dredge flour thickly over it, baste freely, and let it 
brown. Take the meat from the pan, dredge in some 
flour and seasoning if needed ; throw into the gravy a 
cup of water, let it boil up once, and strain into a sauce 
boat or gravy tureen. 



lOo The Complete Cook Book. 

GRAVY FOR ROAST BEEF. 

When the meat is done, put it on a plate, and keep it 
hot while making the gravy. Hold the corner of the 
dripping pan over a bowl; let the liquid in the pan 
settle ; then pour off all the fat and save it. 

FILLET OP BEEF. 

Wipe and remove the fat, veins and tough tendinous 
portion in the middle and lard the upper side. Dredge 
with pepper and flour and put in one slice of onion, one 
sprig of thyme, one-half carrot, one root of celery, one 
bay leaf, one teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful 
of pepper, one-half pint of stock or water, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, and lay the beef on several pieces of 
pork and roast twenty or twenty-five minutes. 

VEAL CECILS. 

Chop fine sufficent veal to make one pint In a fry- 
ing pan melt one tablespoonful butter, add the chopped 
veal, two tablespoonfuls bread crumbs, one scant tea- 
spoonful salt, one-quarter teaspoonful paprika, one- 
eighth teaspoonful mace, one teaspoonful onion juice, 
and the yolks of two raw eggs. Stir until the mixture 
is heated through and set aside to cool. When cool 
make up into balls the size of an egg, dip in beaten egg, 
roll in bread crumbs, and fry in hot deep fat. Serve 
with tomato sauce. 

ROAST LAMB. 

After a quarter of lamb is trimmed, wipe it with a 
wet towel, put it in front of the fire, or in a very hot 
oven, and brown it quickly; after it is brown, season 
it with salt and pepper, dust it with flour, and baste it 
with the drippings every fifteen minutes, if a frothed 
surface is desired ; allow the lamb to cook about twenty 
minutes to a pound. 

BRAISED LEG OF MUTTON. 

This recipe can be varied either by preparing the leg 
with a stuffing placed in the cavity after having the 
bone removed, or cooking it without. Having lined 



The Complete Cook Book, loi 

the bottom of a thick iron kettle or stewpan with a few 
thin slices of bacon, put over the bacon four carrots, 
three onions, a bunch of savory herbs ; then over these 
place the leg of mutton. Cover the whole with a few 
more slices of bacon, then pour over half a pint of 
water. Cover with a tight cover and stew very gently 
for four hours, basting the leg occasionally with its 
own liquor, and seasoning with salt and pepper as soon 
jjs it begins to be tender. "When cooked strain the 
gravy, thicken with a spoonful of flour (it should be 
quite brown), pour some of it over the meat and send 
the remainder to the table in a tureen to be served with 
the mutton when carved. Garnish the dish around the 
leg with potatoes cut in the shape of olives and fried a 
light brown in butter. 

SADDLE OR LOIN OF MUTTON OR LAMB. 

Trim off all the pink skin and superfluous fat. Re- 
move the ends of the ribs, the cord, and veins along the 
back. Wipe, and rub the inside with salt. Roll the 
flank under on each side, and sew it across the middle. 
Dredge with salt, pepper and flour; place it in the pan, 
with the inside up, in order to thoroughly cook the fat. 
Baste, and dredge often. When the fat is brown and 
crisp, turn, and cook the upper part till brown. Keep 
a buttered paper over it to preV'ent burning. Carve 
long slices parallel with the backbone, then slip the 
knife under and separate the slices from the ribs. 
Divide the slices, and serve with some of the crisp fat. 
A loin of mutton may be stuffed and rolled, having 
first removed the ends of the ribs. Bake, and serve in 
slices cut at right angles with the backbone. 

SADDLE OF MUTTON— ROASTED, PLAIN. 

Pare and trim a fine saddle of mutton, weighing 
about six pounds (if possible). Lift off the upper skin, 
make one slight incision in the middle, also three on 
each side; tie it firmly together with three strings, so 
that it retains its shape, season it with a good pinch of 
salt, and it will then be ready to roast. Place the sad- 



I02 The Complete Cook Book. 

die in a roasting pan, adding a gill of cold water; i)ut 
it in a moderate oven, and let cook for forty-five min- 
utes. Baste it frequently with its own gravy, and 
serve on a very hot dish. Skim off all the fat, strain 
the gravy into a sauce bowl, and serve separately. 

LEG OF MUTTON— CAPER SAUCE. 

Pare a nice leg of mutton as above, put it on to boil 
in a pot, filled with slightly salted cold water, add a 
bouquet of herbs and one sliced carrot. Boil one hour 
and a quarter, and serve with half a pint of caper sauce, 
made by putting two cups of hot Hollandaise sauce 
into a saucepan with a light handful of capers, and 
heating thoroughly for five minutes without boiling. 

TO ROAST A SUCKING PIG, 

In selecting a pig for the table, one four weeks old is 
to be preferred. Let the pig be prepared in the usual 
way by the butcher, that is, scalded, drawn, etc. 
Stuff it with a mixture of two or three onions, say half 
a pint when sliced and chopped, and a dozen leaves of 
sage, pepper and salt; set this to simmer on the fire, 
then throw in half a pint of bread crumbs if the pig is 
small — if a large one, put a pint of crumbs — a quarter 
of a pound of butter, and the yolks of four eggd. Cook 
this and stuff the pig with it; sew the pig up and put 
it in the oven to roast ; baste it often with a brush or 
swab dipped in olive oil, dust a little sugar over it, and 
brown it evenly. Take off the head before serving, 
take out the brains, put them in a stewpan; add to 
them some chopped parsley, pepper and salt, a cup of 
the gravy from the pig, and the juice of a lemon. Stir 
this over the fire, and send it to the table hot in a sep- 
arate boat. 

A FAMOUS DISH. 

Chop beef, mutton or pork into a hash. Take a 
quantity of Grape-Nuts equal to half the amount of 
meat. Mix into the Grape- Nuts a raw egg and what 
milk it will take up. Salt and pepper to taste. Now 
thoroughly mix meat and all into a bash, form into pat- 
ties like sausage and place in a hot skillet with only 



The Complete Cook Book. 103 

enough butter on bottom to prevent sticking. Place 
cover over the skillet and cook until done. Put a lit- 
tle piece of butter on top of each patty if they tend to 
become dry, but do not use enough to make greasy. 
Serve hot and you will discover that the meat has 
acquired a most savory flavor from the Grape-Nuts, 
and at the same time it has been rendered easily 
digestible, and the elements in the Grape-Nuts furnish 
most valuable nourishment for athletes as well as in- 
valids. 

EEMARKS ON BOILING MEATS. 

Meat, whether fresh or salted, smoked or dried, 
should always be pu' on the fire in cold water. Dried 
meats should be soaked before boiling. The delicacy 
of meat and fowls is preserved by carefully skimming 
while they are boiling. 

MOST DELICIOUS BOILED HAM. 

If very salt or large, soak over night : next morning 
scrape and wash it well, and put it into a boiler and 
cover with cold water; now, add one large handful of 
bay, one cupful of molasses, one onion, one tablespoon- 
ful of whole grains of black pepper, one tablespoonful 
of whole cloves and one tablespoonful of whole all- 
spice; tie pepper, cloves and allspice in a muslin bag; 
simmer it gently ; allow twenty-five minutes for every 
pound, and, when done, set it off and let it get cold in 
the water it is boiled in ; then take it out, peel off the 
skin, dredge with brown sugar, and set in a. moderate 
oven until it browns. Or, you may take one-half cup 
of brown sugar, one teaspoonful brown flour, and wet 
with just enough port wine to make a paste, and spread 
over the ham, and brown in oven. Serve with poached 
eggs. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON OR LAMB. 

Wipe, remove the fat and put into well-salted boiling 
water. Skim, and simmer twelve minutes for each 
pound of meat. One quarter of a cup of rice is some- 
times boiled with the mutton, or the meat may be tied 



I04 The Complete Cook Book. 

in a cloth to keep it from becoming discolored. Serve 
with a thick caper sauce poured over the mutton. 
Garnish with parsley. Serve with currant jelly. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 
Wipe the leg with a damp towel, dust a piece of 
cheese cloth thickly with flour and wrap the leg in it, 
then place it in a large kettle of boiling water. The 
leg must be thoroughly covered with the water, cover 
the kettle, boil for five minutes, then put it on the back 
part of the range, and gently simmer fifteen minutes to 
every pound. Add a teaspoonful of salt when the leg 
is half done. When done, remove the towel carefully, 
dish the leg, garnish with parsley, trim the bone with 
quilled paper, and serve with caper sauce in a boat. 

KENTUCKY STUFFED HAM. 
If ham is large put in to soak over night. In the 
morning wash and scrape well. Put in boiler, cover 
with cold water. Have tea kettle on stove, and as the 
water boils from the ham, add the boiling water from 
the tea kettle. Keep this up until nam is about half 
done. This you can tell by piercing from under side 
with a fork. It geneially takes about three hours for 
large hams. Take from boiler and place in a large pan 
to cool; wnile cooling prepare the stuffing. Two good- 
sized heads of cabbage, six onions, moderate size; plenty 
of red pepper, one teaspoonful of black pepper. Taste 
the water in which the ham is boiling — if salty, don't 
add more salt to the dressing. Mix well, after chop- 
ping as for slaw. Pour over this about a gallon of the 
liquor in which the ham was boiled, or enough to wilt 
the cabbage. With sharp knife make incisions all 
through the ham. With finger and thumb fill these 
holes with the stuffing. When you have gotten in all 
you can, sew up in a cloth, wrap well, but not tight, 
put back in the same water, add more water until the 
ham is all covered again, keep up the boiling for two 
or three hours more. The great secret is to have the 
ham well cooked. When you are sure it is done, take 
the boiler from the fire, let ham remain in water a 
short while, take out but do not remove the cloth until 
morning. 



The Complete Cook Book. 105 



STEAKS AND CHOPS. 



Small sirloin, twelve minutes; sirloin, eighteen min- 
utes; double sirloin, thirty minutes; porterhouse, 
twenty- five minutes; double porterhouse, forty minutes; 
tenderloin, eighleen minutes; Chataubriand, thirty 
minutes. 

STEWED STEAK WITH OYSTERS. 

One pint of oysters, one and a half pounds of beef- 
steak, three tablespoonfuls of butter, one tablespoonful 
of flour, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, one cup of 
water, salt and pepper to taste. Put the water in a 
stewpan, then put in the oysters, rinse them around 
well, skim out the oysters, and place the liquor on the 
stove to heat ; as soon as it comes to a boil skim it and 
set on back of stove. Put the butter in the frying pan, 
and when hot put in the steak ; cook about ten minutes ; 
take out the steak, and stir the flour into the butter in 
the frying pan ; stir until it is a dark brown, then pour 
in the oyster liquor and let boil up well ; season with 
salt and pepper; put back the steak, cover and simmer 
thirty minutes, then add the oysters and lemon juice. 
Serve on hot dish ; garnish with pickles and parsley. 

PAN-BROILED STEAK. 

In the absence of the necessary appliances for broil- 
ing over coals, the following method may be employed : 
Heat a clean skillet to blue heat, rub it with a bit of 
suet, just enough to keep the meat from sticking, but 
leave no fat in the pan. Lay in the steak, pressing it 
down to the pan, and sear quickly on one side; turn 
and without cutting into the meat sear upon the other. 



io6 The Complete Cook Book. 

Keep the skillet hot, but do not scorch; cook from five 
to ten minutes, turning frequently, so as not to allow 
the juices to escape. Add no salt until done. Serve 
on hot plates. This method is not frying, and requires 
the addition of no water, butter or stock. 

TO FEY A STEAK TO TASTE AS IF BROILED. 

It sometimes happens that when the fire is low, and 
the coals gone out, you are called on to cook a steak. 
Then get up a quick blaze in the stove with some kin- 
dlings. Put in a pan, over the blaze, a little butter; 
when it is hot lay in your steak; let it fry quickly; 
while frying cover the pan. Work some butter, salt 
and pepper together in a tin pan and when the steak is 
done to taste let it lie in this mixture a few minutes 
and then serve. Do not salt a steak until it is cooked, 
as salt will toughen it and draw out its juices. 

SIRLOIN STEAK, WITH GREEN PEPPERS. 

Dish two broiled sirloin steaks, and pour over them a 
sauce made as follows: Empty three green peppers, 
mince them very fine, suppressing the seeds, and put 
them in a stewpan with a tablespoonful of oil. Cook 
for about three minutes, moistening with half a pint of 
Madeira sauce; cook for five minutes longer, then pour 
the sauce over the steaks and serve. 

EPICUREAN BEEFSTEAK. 

This recipe is from a famous English cook. Broil 
a good tender steak — say about two pounds. Lay on a 
very hot plate and pour over it a sauce made as follows : 
Beat up the yolk of an egg, add a gill of milk, a table- 
spoonful of melted butter and an even tablespoonful of 
flour. Stir until the latter is smoothly mixed, then put 
into a saucepan and stir constantly until the boiling 
point is reached, but on no account allow it to boil. 
Add a half-teaspoonful of minced parsley, a saltspoon- 
ful of salt and one teaspoonful of tomato sauce to each 
gill of the sauce. Stir all the time the tomato sauce is 
being added. This will be found a very nice dish. 
Serve with potato balls. 



The Complete Cook Book. 107 

HAMBUKG STEAK. 

One and one-quarter pounds of round, lean steak and 
one-quarter pound of fat ground together very fine. 
Add to it one teaapoonful of strained lemon juice, salt 
and pepper to taste. If you like, season with ginger 
and sage. Slice an onion and fry in hutter a delicate 
brown ; remove the onion and put in your meat, which 
you can make into cakes or fry into a large flat steak 
and slice. Cover your skillet and fry on both sides. 
When done, place on a hot dish and make a brown 
sauce by adding one tablespoonful of flour to your gravy 
and one-half teaapoonful of ketchup, one teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce and one cup of good stock or 
water. Pour over steak, garnish with parsley and 
serve with fried potatoes. 

STUFFED STEAK. 

One cupful of bread crumbs; moisten them with rich 
stock or sweet milk ; add one tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, one tablespoonful of butter, one scant teaspoon- 
ful of celery seeds, one small onion, chopped, a thin 
slice of breakfast bacon, chopped fine, and salt and 
pepper to taste. Boll into a large ball and roll it up 
securely in a nice round steak, weighing about two 
pounds. Tie the meat with a piece of twine to hold in 
the filling; dredge with flour; place in a baking pan; 
add one-half cup of water and bake until done. Baste 
often. 

BKOILED STEAK. 

Trim and remove the bone, as it burns quickly. See 
that the fire is clean and free from gas. Now grease 
the gridiron with either butter or sweet oil, and when 
it is hot lay on your steak. Turn it every ten seconds, 
and cook from five to ten minutes. Season with melted 
butter, salt and pepper, and shove inside the stove on a 
hot platter a few moments and serve at once. Never 
salt a steak until after it is cooked. Serve with 
tomato sauce. 



io8 The Complete Cook Book. 

SIRLOIN STEAK LARDED. 

Procure a piece of four pounds of tender sirloin, pare 
and trim it nicely, taking out the bones; lard it over 
the top with a small larding needle, and season with 
salt and pepper. Line a baking dish with some pork 
skin, one medium-sized sliced carrot, half a bunch of 
well-cleaned and pared parsley roots, one peeled sound 
sliced onion, one sprig of thyme and a bay leaf. Place 
the sirloin on top, and put it in the oven to roast for 
thirty minutes. Take from out the oven, dress on a 
hot dish, set on back of stove ; add a cupful of white 
broth to the gravy and allow to boil for two minutes; 
skim off the fat, strain the gravy into separate bowl, 
and serve. 

PORTERHOUSE STEAK. 

Procure two porterhouse steaks of one and a half 
pounds each — see that they are cut from the short loin 
— 'flatten them well, pare and trim and season with one 
pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper. Put them on 
a dish with half a tablespoonf ul of oil ; roll well and 
put them on a moderate fire to broil seven minutes on 
each side. Lay them on a warm dish, pour over one 
gill of maitre d'hotel butter. Garnish nicely with 
watercress or other greens, and serve hot. 

BEEFSTEAK WITH PALE ALE. 

When the steak is served put a small piece of butter 
on it, and over all pour half a glass of English pale ale, 
kneading the steak until a delicious gravy is obtained. 
This recipe was obtained in a "grill-room" in old 
England, where steaks are served in perfection. 

GRAVY FOR STEAKS AND CHOPS. 

Brown together one tablespoonful of butter in a sauce- 
pan, one tablespoonful of flour; add pepper and salt to 
taste, one teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one can 
mushrooms. Cook ten minutes and pour over the roast. 



The Complete Cook Book. 109 

MUTTON CHOPS, BEEADED. 

Flatten six fine, thick mutton chops, pare nicely, and 
season with one tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful 
of pepper. Dip them in beaten egg, roll in fresh bread 
crumbs, and place in a sautoire with one ounce of clari- 
fied butter. Cook four minutes. 

. LAMB OR MUTTON CHOPS. 

Wipe with a wet cloth ; remove the skin and extra 
fat; have a frying pan hissing hot, without any fat j put 
in the chops and cook one minute, turn, and sear the 
other side ; cook more slowly until done, five minutes 
if liked rare. Stand them up on the fat edge to brown 
the fat, without over-cooking the meat. When nearly 
done, sprinkle a little salt on each side. Drain on 
paper, and serve hot, either plain or with tomato or 
Soubise sauce. 

BROILED MUTTON CHOPS. 

After the chops are trimmed, pixt them as close to the 
fire as possible, and quickly brown them on both sides ; 
after the chops are browned, move the gridiron contain- 
ing them far enough from the fire to prevent burning, 
and cook them to the desired degree at a hot fire; chops 
an inch thick will cook medium rare in about ten min- 
utes ; after the chops are done, season them with salt 
and pepper, put a little butter over them, and serve 
them hot. 

FRIED MUTTON CHOPS. 

Put a frying pan over the fire, and heat it so that the 
chops will siss when they are put into it. After the 
chops are trimmed, put them in the hot pan, and quickly 
brown them on both sides; chops generally have 
enough fat upon them to prevent burning ; when the 
fat is excessive, most of it should be cut off, and tried 
out to use as drippings ; after the chops are cooked to 
the desired degree, season them with salt, pepper and a 
little butter, and serve them hot. If the pan is hot 
enough they will cook medium rare in about twelve 
minutes. 



I lo The Complete Cook Book. 

BROILED LAMB CHOPS. 

Wash, remove the pink skin and any superfluous fat. 
Heat the skillet to smoking, grease just enough to pre- 
vent sticking and place in the chops. Turn every half 
minute until done, from five to eight minutes. Season 
with bits of butter, salt and pepper. Decorate with 
sprigs of parsley and serve stuffed tomatoes with them. 

MUTTON CHOPS A LA PEOVENCALE. 

Flatten and pare neatly six fine, thick mutton chops, 
season them with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of 
pepper, oil them slightly with swe6t oil, and then either 
broil or cook them in a sautoire for two minutes on one 
side only, and lay them aside to get cold. The chops 
should always be cooked for two minutes as above men- 
tioned, after the garnishing has been prepared. 

PORK CHOPS— FRIED. 

The chops should be of a uniform thickness (about 
one-third of an inch). Season by dusting on both sides 
with a little white pepper, salt and sugar (about one- 
half as much sugar as salt). Then put in a hot skillet 
and fry, and when brown on both sides cover the skil- 
let, and set on the back part of the stove until thor- 
oughly cooked. 

BAKED TRIPE. 

Cut two pounds of fresh tripe into inch pieces; peel, 
slice, and fry in a little butter four mild onions. When 
a brown color turn them into a deep baking dish, lay on 
them the tripe, dust with pepper and salt and a little 
flour. Pour over milk sufficient to cover, put over the 
dish a tight fitting lid and bake two hours. When done 
serve in a hot dish, adding a little hot table relish if 
desired. 



The Complete Cook Book. 1 1 1 



VEGETABLES, CEREALS, ETC. 



PEEPARINQ AND COOKING. 

Vegetables should be free from all decay and should 
have fresh and unshriveied skins. Sprouted vegetables 
are unfit for use for food, as they contain a pojson sim- 
ilar to belladonna. Green vegetables should be freshly 
gathered, as those which have lain over twenty-four 
hours are unfit for use; stale vegetables cause serious 
ailments. If it is not convenient to use the green veg- 
etables the same day that they are gathered, lay them 
in a cool dark place, and do not remove their outer 
leaves until ready to use. Never keep them in water, 
as that destroys some of their juices. When some of 
the stems are withered, the best way is to cut off a bit 
of the stem and set in water the cut part only. The 
vegetables will absorb enough water to replace what 
has been lost by evaporation. 

If possible, use vegetables gathered early in the 
morning with dew on them. Pick them carefully, 
wash them and put in cold water until ready to cook 
them. Then put them in water neither cold nor hot; 
one takes away the flavor while the other toughens 
them. Very little salt should be thrown in the water 
in which they are boiled. They should never be 
allowed to stop simmering or boiling until they are 
done. Always cook them until tender, and no longer. 
An early green vegetable will keep its color better if 
boiled rapidly and uncovered. 

Vegetables to be kept for the winter should be kept 
in a cool dry place, temperature between forty-five and 
sixty-five degrees. There should be neither light, 
dampness nor warmth allowed, as they are the cause 
of decay. 



112 The Complete Cook Book. 

As vegetables readily absorb all impurities, great 
care should be exercised that nothing odorous or decom- 
posing is left near where they are stored. They should 
be sorted often, and those bruised and decayed thrown 
away. 

Beans and peas should not be shelled until needed. 

In washing all kinds of vegetables and greens, it is 
best to place them in a colander and dip them several 
times in vessels of cold water until they are clean. 

It requires care and skill to cook vegetables properly, 
so they will retain their natural flavor. 

It is best to cook them in as little water as possible 
as the salts and the nutrient juices are mostly lost in the 
water, and if this must be drained off most of their 
nutritious value is lost. Vegetables contain so much 
water that it is not necessary to add large quantities to 
cook them. 

Many cooks, from lack of this knowledge, convert 
some of the most nutritious of foods into dishes that are 
unfit to eat. Great care should also be exercised that 
they should not be overdone or not done enough, for 
eihter destroys their natural flavor. 

Always pare potatoes very thin. Much of the most 
nutritious part of the tuber lies next its outer covering ; 
so care should be taken to waste as little as possible. 
Potatoes cooked with the skins on are undoubtedly bet- 
ter than those pared. 

Onions, potatoes and cabbage should always be 
scalded to draw out the indigestible qualities. Some 
object to the use of onions, particularly on account of 
the disagreeable odor ; but when added with the other 
seasoning material, they are so completely absorbed in 
the stock that no trace of their presence can be detected. 
All or part of the vegetables may be fried first, if you 
like. One or two sour apples give a pleasant fiavor to 
stock. Wines or ketchups should be added just before 
serving, as boiling dissipates the fiavor. 

POTATOES AND VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes sautees, five minutes; Lyonnaise, five min- 
utes; Gratin, fifteen minutes; hashed and browned, 
fifteen minutes; O'Brien, fifteen minutes; Ortiz 



The Complete Cook Book. 113 

twenty minutes ; sweet potatoes (sautee or fried) fifteen 
minutes; baked, forty minutes; boiled rice, five 
minutes. 

A VALUABLE TABLE. 

The following table will be a guide in boiling vege- 
tables, but it must be remembered that the youngest 
and freshest boil in the least time ; and that in winter 
all the roots except potatoes require nearly double the 
time to cook that they would in summer, when they 
are new. Spinach, ten to fifteen minutes; brussels 
sprouts, peas, caulifiowers and asparagus, fifteen to 
twenty minutes; potatoes, cabbage, corn, and string 
beans, twenty to thirty minutes; turnips, onions and 
squash, twenty to forty minutes; beets, carrots and 
parsnips, about one hour. 

HOT SALT POTATOES. 

In every locality there is always a favorite dish that 
once partaken of by "strangers within her gates," is 
forever connected with that particular city or place. 
Philadelphia scrapple is as well known "down east" as 
Boston's beans and brown bread, and in the central 
city of New York State, Syracuse, is served a tid-bit 
that outshines them all, and one which courts favor 
among the male citizens. The name of this dish is hot 
salt potatoes, prepared thus : Enough brine is bought 
at the salt yards to fill a kettle three-quarters full. 
Medium-sized smooth potatoes are scrubbed clean and 
put into the boiling brine, covered and left to boil until 
a straw will pierce the vegetables; then they are 
drained and served piping hot. When eating these 
they are never cut; the ends are pressed with the 
fingers, which bursts open the center, pop in a generous 
lump of good butter, and the delicious tid-bit will be 
relished. The outside will be covered with salt crystals, 
the inside mealy, white and permeated with a relishing 
seasoning. 

BROILED POTATOES. 

Take warm mashed potatoes and pack solid into a 
sheet-iron bread tin (dip. tin into cold water before put- 



1 14 The Complete Cook Book. 

ting in potatoes) j when cold cut into slices, pour a little 
cream all over the top, and brown in a broiler oxer hot 
coals. 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Boil four good-sized sweet potatoes. When done, 
peel and mash them through a colander, add one table- 
spoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, a dash of 
cayenne, and four tablespoonfuls of cream. Beat un- 
til light, form into croquettes. Dip first into beaten 
egg and then in bread crumbs, and fry in smoking hot 
fat. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Peel and wash a sufficient quantity for a meal. Cut 
into squares or any desirable shape and soak them for 
an hour in salted ice water. Have ready a vessel of 
very hot lard. Drain and dry each piece between 
towels. Plunge them into hot fat enough to float them, 
and fry until tender a nice brown. Drain and dust 
very lightly with salt. 

MOTHER R.'S MILL CREEK POTATOES. 

One quart of raw Irish potatoes, peeled and sliced 
very thin. Plac« in a buttered pudding dish and add 
one tablespoonful of butter, three eggs beaten in one 
pint of rich milk, salt and pepper to taste ; add milk, if 
necessary, to cover potatoes. Dot with butter and one 
strip of breakfast bacon and bake slowly until tender. 
If the potatoes cook dry, add more milk. 

STEWED IRISH POTATOES. 

Wash, peel and slice six potatoes; throw them in 
cold water for ten minutes. Then place them in a stew- 
pan, cover them with fresh cold water and cook until 
tender. Now pour off the water and pour over them 
a cup of sweet milk or cream, a little salt, pepper and 
chopped parsley, and thicken with a lump of butter 
rolled in flour. Stew a few moments and serve in a 
covered dish. 



The Complete Cook Book. 1 1 5 

SWEET OR IRISH POTATO PUFFS. 

Mash well-boiled potatoes and mix with them two 
eggs well beaten, one-quarter cup of sweet butter and 
one cup of hot milk. Season Irish potatoes with salt 
and season sweet potatoes with sugar and nutmeg to 
taste. Form into balls and place on buttered tins. 
Brush them over with an egg well beaten and brown in 
a hot oven. 

SOUTHERN SLICED SWEET POTATOES. 

Cover the bottom of a baking dish with slices of 
boiled sweet potatoes. Season with salt, butter, nut- 
meg and brown sugar. Put in another layer and sea- 
son and continue until the dish is full. Pour over it 
one-half cup of water and a pinch of cloves and set in 
oven twenty or thirty minutes. 

POTATO DUMPLINGS. 

Boil eight peeled potatoes with one quart of water, one 
tablespoonful of salt till done, then press them through a 
potato press; add one tablespoonful of butter; mix well 
and let stand till cold, then add two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of flour, the yolks of three eggs ; form this 
into small balls the size of an egg; roll in flour and boil 
in a large saucepan of salted water ten minutest remove 
with a skimmer and serve. 

DELICIOUS CREAMED POTATOES. 

Take a small piece of butter, put it into frying pan. 
When it begins to bubble add one teaspoonful of flour, 
a little salt, and a dash of white pepper; stir well 
together, then add a pint of milk ; cook a few minutes. 
Cut potatoes into small dice and add to the cream. 
Let them cook until thoroughly heated. 

ROASTED POTATOES. 

Potatoes are much more rich and mealy roasted than 
cooked in any other way. Wash them very carefully, 
dry with a cloth, and wrap in tissue paper; bury in 



ii6 The Complete Cook Book. 

ashes not too hot, then cover with coals and roast until 
tender. The coals will need renewing occasionally, 
unless the roasting is done very close to the main fire. 

POTATO CAKES WITH EGGS. 

Bake nice potatoes till perfectly tender; peel, mash 
thoroughly, and to each pint allow the yolks of two 
eggs which have been boiled until mealy, then rubbed 
perfectly smooth through a fine wire sieve, and one-half 
cup of rich milk. Add salt to taste, mix all well 
together, form the potato into small cakes, place them 
on oiled tins, and brown ten or fifteen minutes in the 
oven. 

CHICKEN AND POTATO CAKES. 

These are made from the remains of Sunday's dinner. 
Mince fine all the chicken remaining, add to it the cold 
mashed potatoes, bind with an egg, and perhaps also a 
little flour will be necessary. Drop from a large spoon 
on a well-buttered baking pan, and bake until a light 
brown. Arrange on a platter with the chicken gravy 
reheated surrounding them. A pretty effect can be 
produced by sprinkling the top of each cake with a bit 
of the yolk of a hard-boiled egg pressed through a ricer. 
The white can be minced fine and added to the gravy. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Boil one pint of potatoes without peeling, until per- 
fectly done. Peel them while hot. Mash them up 
with one tablespoonful of butter until entirely free from 
lumps ; salt and pepper to taste ; add the yolk of a raw 
egg and moisten with rich, hot milk. Beat with a fork 
until light, and run them through a sieve or colander 
into a deep dish, letting it fall in a mound. 

POTATO DOUGHNOTS. 

Mash cold boiled potatoes and season them with salt, 
pepper, finely minced onion, chopped parsley and 
grated ham. Roll into balls, dip in beaten egg, roll in 
cracker crumbs and fry in boiling fat. 



The Complete Cook Book. 117 

STUFFED POTATOES. 

Boil six potatoes of uniform size. When done and 
still hot, cut off a small end from each potato. Scoop 
out the inside into a hot bowl; mash and add two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, one-half cup of hot milk, one tea- 
spoonful of finely chopped parsley, salt and pepper to 
taste. Beat the whites of two eggs stiff and mix it 
with the potato. Fill the skins a little above the edge; 
brush the top with yolk of egg and dust with cracker 
crumbs. Place a very small piece of breakfast bacon 
on top of each one, and set in the oven until the crumbs 
are a golden brown. Cheese or grated ham are also 
nice to add. Sometimes the skin is stuffed with cod- 
fish or sausage meat. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Two cupfuls of raw, finely sliced potatoes, one 
chopped onion, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and 
a tablespoonful of butter. Butter a deep dish and put 
in a layer of potatoes sprinkled with salt, pepper, but- 
ter, onion and parsley, and so continue to the top. 
Bring a pint of milk to the boiling point, add a large 
tablespoonful of flour stirred until smooth in a little 
cold milk, pour over the potatoes and bake in hot oven 
until tender. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Warm cold mashed potatoes ; add enough hot milk to 
soften them, and make into cakes or balls, and fry 
brown in hot fat. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Select smooth potatoes of uniform size; wash well; 
bake in a hot oven until soft. Pinch them to break the 
skins and let the steam escape. Never cover them. 

POTATOES AND BREAKFAST BACON. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes in a baking dish; cover 
the top with thin slices of sweet breakfast bacon. Place 
on the upper grate in the oven until the meat begins to 



ii8 The Complete Cook Book. 

brown and then brown the potatoes in the bottom of the 
oven. Drain off the fat and send to the table smoking 
hot. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Wash and peel six potatoes; soak in cold water; 
cover with boiling salted water, and boil slowly until 
soft, but not broken. Drain off every drop of water and 
place, uncovered, on back of range to let the steam 
escape. Sprinkle with salt. Potatoes with their 
jackets on are treated the same way, except you peel off 
one-half inch of skin around each potato. 

STUFFED SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash six medium-sized sweet potatoes. Bake them in 
a moderate oven until they begin to soften and then cut 
a small piece from the end of each potato, and with a 
teaspoon scoop out the inside into a hot bowl. Mash 
them smooth and mix with them two tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, one-half cup of hot sweet milk, two eggs 
well beaten ; sweeten with sugar to taste. Flavor with 
grated lemon rind, nutmeg and brandy. Stuff the skins 
with this mixture; then return the potatoes to the oven 
to heat thoroughly. Serve them hot and in the skins. 

HASHED BKOWN POTATOES. 

One large boiled potato chopped fine; grease a pan 
with one tablespooriful of butter and press the potatoes 
into it with the palm of your hand. Dust with a little 
salt and sprinkle over the top one tablespoonful of finely 
chopped parsley. Place in the oven and when brown 
fold like an omelet and serve. 

FRIED RAW POTATOES. 

Pare, wash, and cut into the desired shape= Soak 
in cold salted water, drain, and dry between towels. 
Pry in clear fat, hot enough to brown while counting 
sixty. Drain, and sprinkle with salt. 

Saratoga potatoes are shaved in thin slices. Pari- 
sienne potatoes are cut in small balls with a French vege- 



The Complete Cook Book. 119 

table cutter. Macaroni, or Shoo Fly, potatoes are cut 
in quarter-inch slices, then in quarter-inch strips. Cres- 
cents and other shapes may be cut with vegetable cut- 
ters. 

These are all to be fried ; but some prefer to boil the 
Parisienne potatoes, and serve in a cream sauce, flav- 
ored with parsley. 

Sweet potatoes may be baked or boiled. They are 
better baked. Cold sweet potatoes may be cut in slices, 
warmed in milk, and seasoned with butter and salt, or 
browned in butter. 

SARATOGA POTATOES. 

Saratoga potatoes are peeled, sliced very thin, and 
soaked over night, or for several hours, in plenty of 
cold water; sometimes a small bit of alum is dissolved 
in the water to harden the potatoes; before they are 
fried, they are carefully drained or dried on a towel, 
and then fried in plenty of smoking hot fat, a few slices 
at a time. They are served either hot or cold. 

A SOUTHERN DISH. 

Cut cold baked sweet potatoes into quarter-inch 
slices, and put them in an earthen dish. Spread each 
layer with butter, and sprinkle slightly with sugar, 
and bake until hot and slightly browned. Sweet pota- 
toes are much richer when twice cooked. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Choose large, smooth tomatoes, uniform in size. 
Cut off a slice from the stem end of each, and with a 
spoon remove the juice and pulp. To each cupful of 
this, add one cupful of bread crumbs and two table- 
spoonfuls of butter. Season with salt, pepper and 
sugar to taste. Fill the tomatoes with this mixture, 
replace the tops and sprinkle with buttered crumbs. 
Bake slowly about three-quarters of an hour. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

The leaves should be green and fresh, and the heads 
creamy white. Remove the green stalks and outside 



I20 The Complete Cook Book. 

leaves, and soak in cold salted water with the flowerets 
down one hour. Drain, and if large, cut them in quar- 
ters. Tie them in a piece of cheese cloth, and put into 
well salted boiling water and milk, and simmer until 
tender. Be careful to take it out as soon as tender or 
it will fall to pieces. Serve with cream or drawn but- 
ter sauce. 

ASPARAGUS IN AMBUSH. 

Have ready some small light rolls — one for each per- 
son. Cutoff the tops to serve as covers; take out all 
the crumb and lay the rolls in the oven for their tops to 
crisp. Meanwhile heat a cup of milk to boiling point 
and pour it over two beaten eggs, beating well to pre- 
vent curdling ; add a tablespoonful of butter cut in bits, 
and rolled in flour, and a bunch of asparagus that haa 
been boiled lightly, salted and cut fine. Season with 
one saltspoonful of salt, fill the rolls, put on the top and 
serve hot. 

STUFFED BELL PEPPERS. 

Cut a slice from the stem end of each pepper and 
scoop out the seeds. Lay in salted water for an hour, 
then drop in boiling lard until tender, or else parboil 
them for ten minutes. Remove and place on a sieve ta 
drain. Prepare a dressing of equal parts of cracker 
crumbs and finely minced cold meat (chicken, ham or 
veal). Add a little grated onion, chopped parsley, a 
small clove of garlic, minced fine, and a large tomato, 
chopped fine. Season well with pepper, salt, thyme, 
Worcester sauce, and a very little parsley. Moisten 
with melted butter. Mix all thoroughly, then stuff the 
pepper shells. Whip up two eggs well and dip the 
peppers in. Have ready a pan of boiling lard, and fry 
the peppers until nicely browned, or place them upright 
in a buttered pan ; add half a cup of boiling water and 
cook half an hour in a moderate oven. Baste fre- 
quently. Serve with triangles of toast. 

SHRIMPS AND BELL PEPPERS. 

Select one dozen green peppers of uniform size, cut a 
slice from the stem end, remove the seeds and veins. 



The Complete Cook Book. 121 

and soak in cold salted water one hour. Cream two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, add one teaspoonful of made 
mustard, one egg, half a teaspoonful of celery seeds, 
one grating of nutmeg (if you like), one cup of bread 
crumbs, one quart of shrimps, salt and pepper to taste. 
Fill the peppers with this mixture. Set in a pan and 
cook in a hot oven twenty minutes. 

PEPPERS AND EGGS-EXCELLENT. 

Cut peppers in two lengthwise, remove the seeds and 
rinse well. Place in a kettle of boiling water ten min- 
utes. Eemove and drain well on a sieve. Line each 
half with buttered crumbs and grated ham. Break an 
egg carefully into each half, place a tiny bit of butter 
on top of each one and dust with salt and pepper. 
Bake until the white is set and serve on rounds of but- 
tered toast. 

BOILED CORN— MOTHER'S RECIPE. 

Take off outer husks and put it in a dinner pot with 
sufiScient boiling water to cover it, add one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar, half an ounce of butter and boil twenty 
minutes. When done, drain, remove the husks and 
silky fibre and serve hot with butter, pepper and salt. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Cut the tops from tomatoes and remove the seeds and 
pulp without breaking the hull. Boil fresh corn until 
tender, cut it off the cob, and to every cupful add two 
cupfuls of tomatoes and one chopped green pepper. 
Stew all in butter until tender, season to taste with salt 
and pepper, and stuff the tomato hulls with this dress- 
ing. Sprinkle bread crumbs over the top and brown in 
the oven. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Peel sound, large onions, pare the roots without cut- 
ting them. Cover with salted water, and when they 
have boiled ten minutes, change the water and boil 
until tender. Now drain off the water and cover them 



122 The Complete Cook Book. 

with hot milk and cook five minutes longer; then dish 
them and cover them with cream sauce made as follows : 
Sauce : Melt two tablespoonf uls of butter, add one 
of flour, rub until smooth, and when a light brown add 
half a cup of milk, half a cup of onion broth, and when 
thick season with salt and pepper. Just before serving 
add the yolks of two eggs beaten with one tablespoon- 
ful of water. 

FEIED ONIONS. 

Many like onions cut in slices and fried gently until a 
light brown in hot lard and beeksteak gravy, and 
served around steak. 

NOVEL STUFFED PEPPERS. 

Cut a slice from the stem end of green bell peppers, 
take out the seeds, and throw them in salted water for 
two or three hours. Take one set of calf's brains and 
one pair of sweet breads and parboil them in salted 
water with one tablespoonful of lemon juice until done. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Cut through each row of kernels with a sharp knife 
and press out the pulp. To each pint of green corn add 
one very scant cup of flour, one dessertspoonful of salt, 
one small spoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful of but- 
ter and two well beaten eggs. Mix all together and 
drop a spoonful at a time in hot lard, and fry — or else 
drop on a well-buttered griddle and fry a golden brown 
on both sides. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

Score fresh ears of sweet com and press out the pulp. 
Add three eggs beaten with half a pint of milk. Add 
enough sifted flour to mak«} a batter thick enough to 
drop from the spoon. Season with salt and pepper and 
stir vigorously with a wooden spoon for five minutes. 
Drop a spoonful at a time in boiling lard and fry a 
golden brown. 



The Complete Cook Book. 123 

COEN PUDDING. 

One can of corn or eight ears of fresh corn. With a 
sharp knife slit each row of corn in the center and scrap 
with the back of your knife. Add the yolks of three 
eggs beaten, one generous tablespoonful of butter, one 
tablespoonful of flour, one teaspoonful of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, and last of all 
the well-beaten whites of three eggs. Fill a pudding 
dish with this and cover it with milk, which will take 
from half to a pint. Bake in an oven one hour. 

SCALLOPED CORN. 

Cut the top of the grain and scrape with a knife. 
Butter well some scalloped shells and make alternate 
layers of corn, tomatoes, cracker crumbs, salt, pepper 
and butter, with crumbs on top. Pour a little cream 
over each and bake. 

STEWED CORN. 

Take a dozen tender ears of corn, cut off only the top 
of the grain and scrape well the rest. Place in a stew- 
pan and cover with one quart of water and one cup of 
sweet milk. Stew thirty minutes, and then add a piece 
of butter, size of a walnut, one dessertspoonful of flour. 
Salt, pepper and sugar to taste. 

FRICASSEE OF CORN AND OKRA. 

Pour into a pan of hot lard one pint of tender sliced 
okra. When it has fried a few moments add to it a 
pint and a half of cut green corn. When thoroughly 
cooked pour off some of the grease and dredge with a 
little flour and one-quarter pint of milk. Just before 
serving add salt and pepper. 

OKRA. 

Take one pint of young, tender okra. Put the pods 
whole in a granite saucepan of boiling salted water. 
Boil until tender. Drain and while hot pour melted 
butter, pepper and salt over it, and vinegar if liked. 



124 The Complete Cook Book. 

FRIED EGG PLANT. 

Parboil egg plants in boiling salted water with one 
tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon. Cook until tender. 
Peel, mash and drain. To every pint of egg plant add 
one cup of cracker dust, two beaten eggs, butter, pep- 
per and salt to taste. Moisten with milk, form into 
small cakes and fry brown in hot fat. 

FRIED EGG PLANT, (No. 2.) 

Cut egg plant in slices one-third inch thick, paring 
each piece. Lay it in salt and water over night. The 
next morning take from the water, drain an-1 wipe. 
Then butter the slices of egg plant, dip in beaten egg 
and cracker dust and fry light brown in hot butter. 
Season with salt and pepper. 

STEWED PEAS. 

Peas are fresh when the pods are green, crisp and 
plump. Wash the pods before shelling, aapeas washed 
lose iiieir sweetness. Pick them well. Into a granite 
saucepan put one pint of water for each quart of peas. 
Boil the pods ten minutes, skim them out, add the peas 
and one tablespoonful of sugar. Cover and simmer 
about thirty minutes, or until tender. Season with salt 
and pepper just before taking from the fire. Add cream 
and a piece of butter the size of a walnut, rolled in 
flour. Pour them into a covered dish and serve hot. 
Never allow peas to cook dry, 

STEWED SQUASH. 

Peel a young, tender squash. Cut it in small pieces 
and take out the seeds and boil in boiling salted water 
until tender. Drain it and mash with a wooden spoon. 
Return it to the saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, half a cup of cream, a palatable seasoning of salt 
and pepper. Cook this and stir constantly until the 
squash is dry. Serve hot. For a souffle add the whites 
of four eggs beaten very stiff. Stir together lightly and 
bake twenty minutes. 



The Complete Cook Book. 125 

CORNED BEEF AND CABBAGE. 

Select a nice thick piece of corned beef from the 
round, weighing five or six pounds. Wash it in cold 
water and put it in a large pot over the fire with cold 
water enough to cover it three or four inches. When 
it reaches boiling point set the pot where it will simmer 
three hours. When the scum rises skim it off. Then 
put in the pot a firm head of white cabbage, red pod 
pepper and salt to taste, with small piece of side meat. 
Boil until the cabbage is tender, and if necessary add 
more water. 

STRING BEANS. 

Wash young, tender beans in cold water; break off 
the top and bottom carefully and string or pare both 
sides. Throw them into boiling water with a piece of 
butter. When partly done add one teaspoonful of salt. 
Boil rapidly until tender, or from thirty to forty min- 
utes. Drain, and season with butter, salt, and cream. 
In the South they cook string beans with enough fat 
side meat to grease and season them. 

GRANDMOTHER'S STUFFED CABBAGE. 

Select a firm, heavy cabbage, remove the outside 
leaves, cut a thick slice from the root end and hollow 
out a good-sized hole in the cabbage. Take a pound of 
sausage meat, add to it a beaten egg, half a cup of 
milk, one tablespoonful of flour, salt and red pepper to 
taste. Stuff the hollow cabbage with this, place a strip 
of bacon on top, and close the whole with the slice cut 
from the top of the cabbage, so that none of the stuflBng 
escapes. Plunge it into a pot of boiling water and add 
to the water one carrot, one small onion, and a piece of 
fat side meat and boil until done. 

CABBAGE AND SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Cold cabbage left from dinner can be drained from 
the pot liquor in which it was boiled. Chop it up 
coarsely and fry it in a skillet with boiling lard. Stir 



126 The Complete Cook Book. 

in a lump of butter, half a cup of milk thickened with 
flour, and seasoned with salt and black pepper, and just 
before serving break over it three or four eggs. Toss 
it lightly together with a fork and serve immediately. 

TOMATOES DRESSED INDIVIDUALLY. 

Take five tomatoes that are fully ripe, but firm and 
smooth, peel them, cut them in halves, and take out 
' the pulp and seeds, being careful not to break the out- 
side. Make a French dressing of one tablespoonful of 
strung vinegar, three of salad oil, one-half tablespoon- 
ful of pepper; mix the pulp and seeds with the dress- 
ing, return all to the halves of tomatoes, set each half 
on a fresh leaf of lettuce on an individual dish and 
serve. 

PARSNIPS. 

Scrub and wash six parsnips well, and boil them 
with a slice of pork until tender. Add salt just before 
they are done; then remove them from the fire. Drain 
and peel them, and cut into halves lengthwise and 
pour over them a cream sauce, or season simply with 
butter, pepper and salt. 

FRIED PARSNIPS. 

Make a batter of an egg, a spoonful of milk and 
flour, salt and pepper. Slice your boiled parsnips, dip 
them in the batter and fry a light brown in boiling 
lard. When a golden color on both sides drain and 
serve. They may also be mashed, and to each pint add 
two well beaten eggs, one pint of milk, one pint of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, salt and white 
pepper to taste, and one tablespoonful of butter. Mix 
lightly, form into balls and fry in hot fat. 

TOMATOES. 

To peel tomatoes, plunge them into boiling water for 
two minutes; then throw them in cold water two min- 
utes, and remove the skins with a knife dipped in hot 
water. 



The Complete Cook Book. 127 

STUFFED BAKED TOMATOES. 

Cut a thin slice from the stem of six smooth toma- 
toes; remove the seeds and soft pulp and chop it up 
with one tablespoonful of parsley, one slice of ham, one 
slice of fat bacon, one small onion and one cup of bread 
crumbs. Fry all these ; season with butter, salt, pep- 
per, one teaspoonful of sugar and yolks of two eggs. 
As soon as the eggs are beaten in, remove from the fire 
and stuff the tomatoes with this mixture, heaping it in 
the center. Sprinkle with bread crambs, and place a 
bit of butter on top of each. Lay in a buttered pan 
with one cup of hot water to prevent burning. Bake 
one half-hour and serve with brown sauce, A cup of 
chopped chicken or veal may be used in place of ham 
or bacon, if preferred. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Season one quart of tomatoes with salt and pepper to 
taste, one-half cup of sugar and a few drops of onion 
juice. Butter a deep baking dish and sprinkle over it 
a layer of bread crumbs and put in a layer of tomatoes. 
Dot with bits of butter; then bread crumbs, tomatoes, 
and so on until the dish is full, having the bread 
crumbs on top. Moisten with sweet cream and bake in 
a moderate oven. Brown just before sending to the 
table. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Remove the skins and cut in slices from one-quarter 
to one-half inch thick. Dip them in beaten eggs, then 
in bread crumbs and fry in hot butter or lard. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Take the tomatoes out and 
thicken the gravy wih a teacup of milk, in which one 
spoon of flour has been stirred. Place the tomatoes on 
toast on a hot platter and pour gravy over them. Serve 
hot. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Pour boiling water over the tomatoes and then re- 
move the skins. Chop them fine and put them in a 
double boiler without the addition of water. Season 



128 The Complete Cook Book. 

with salt, pepper, butter, onion (a little sugar if you 
like), one tablespoonful of crackers or toasted bread and 
stew one hour. 

STUFFED AND BAKED EGG PLANT. 

Cut egg plants in half, lengthwise, and parboil them 
in salted water. Scoop out most of the interior and 
mash it up. Season with eggs, onion, salt, pepper, 
butter, two teaspoonfuls of bread crumbs, and either 
chopped chicken or grated ham and chopped breakfast 
bacon. Mix well together. Fill the hulls with this 
dressing. Sprinkle the top with bread crumbs and a 
little clarified butter. Lay them in a buttered tin and 
bake fifteen minutes. If you have mushrooms at hand 
they are also nice to add. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Equal quantity of fresh shelled lima or string beans 
and corn cut from the cob. First cut your corn off and 
place the cobs in a pot with the beans. Cover all well 
with cold water and boil half an hour. Now remove 
the cobs and pour in your corn and boil twenty minutes 
longfe. Add a lump of butter the size of a hen's egg, 
rolled u. flour, quarter of a cup of milk, salt, sugar, and 
pepper to taste. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Scrape and wash two bunches of fresh asparagus. 
Arrange the heads all one way, and tie them into four 
equal bunches. Chop off the ends evenly and place 
them in a vessel of boiling salted water and boil twenty 
minutes. Lift them out carefully and drain. Untie 
and serve with the following sauce : 

Sauce : Two tablespoonf uls of butter, yolks of two 
eggs, salt and pepper to taste, and one tablespoonful of 
vinegar. Cook in a saucepan until thick; then pour 
over asparagus. 

J.SPARAGUS AND EGGS. 

Beat six eggs lightly with a fork; add one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of milk and one 
tablespoonful of water. Have a skillet hot with lard 



The Complete Cook Book. 129 

and butter mixed, and turn your eggs into it. Cook 
quickly, stirring all the time. Add two dozen aspar- 
agus tips, that have been boiled, and as soon as the 
eggs are firm but soft turn into a hot dish and serve 
immediately. You will find this very nice and new. 

STUFFED SPANISH ONIONS— ORIGINAL. 

Select onions of uniform size; peel them and empty 
the centers with a vegetable scoop. After this place 
them in a large pan, half filled with water and allow 
to cook slowly while you make the following dressing : 
Chop fine a small portion of the onion emptied out of 
the centers; add one can of deviled chicken, one-half 
the quantity of grated or deviled ham, one can of mush- 
rooms, two dozen chicken livers, one cup of melted 
butter, one-half cup of cream, and season with Worces- 
tershire sauce, tomato sauce, salt, red and black pep- 
per ; add one cup of cracker crumbs and cook all to- 
gether slowly until well mixed, and then fill the onions. 
Cover with cracker crumbs, place a thin strip of break- 
fast bacon on top of each one and allow to cook a while 
longer, but not long enough to cook the onions to pieces. 
Baste frequently with the water so they will remain 
whole. If chicken livers are not handy you can substi- 
tute calf's liver, well scalded, and use more mushrooms. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT. 

Cook turnip greens until tender, then chop them 
very fine. To each cup of greens add two eggs, two 
snowflake crackers rolled fine, half a cup of grated Par- 
mesan cheese, pepper and salt to taste, and two table- 
spoonfuls of best olive oil. Now parboil two egg 
plants, and when tender cut in half and scoop out the 
pulp. Fill the hulls with the above mixture, place 
them in a pan, and bake in a moderate oven thirty 
minutes. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Cover your lima beans with cold water and let them 
remain in it one hour before cooking. Then plunge 
them into boiling water. Cover them and cook 



130 The Complete Cook Book. 

rapidly. They require about an hour to cook tender. 
When done drain off all the water and stir in butter, 
pepper and salt to taste. Mushrooms and a little cream 
are an improvement. 

STEWED CARROTS. 

Wash, clean and scrape three carrots. Cut them in 
quarters lengthwise and cover them with just enough 
salt water to float them. Cook from twenty to thirty 
minutes, and when tender add a small piece of butter, 
rolled in flour, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley and 
a little milk. Stir it into the boiling liquid with salt 
and pepper to taste. 

TURNIPS. 

Peel turnips and cut in thick slices and cover with 
cold water until ready to cook. Boil in a dinner pot a 
nice piece of fresh pork for an hour, then add your 
turnips, a tablespoonful of salt and one teaspoonful of 
sugar. When done drain and mash the turnips fine 
through a colander. Season with salt and black pepper. 
Place in a dish with the pork on top and serve hot. 

TURNIP SALAD OR SPRING GREENS. 

Pick and wash turnip greens carefully from dust and 
insects and throw in cold water. Have ready a pot of 
boiling water in which a piece of salt pork or bacon has 
been boiled. Lift out the bacon and put in your greens. 
Return the bacon and boil twenty or twenty-five min- 
utes. Dip from the pot with a skimmer. Lay in a 
deep dish. Place a few slices of the bacon on top and 
cover with poached eggs. This is a very popular dish 
in the South. 

CAULIFLOWER AND CHEESE. 

Boil a well shaped cauliflower in salt and water, and 
when tender, remove from the water and let stand in a 
sieve until all the water is drained off. Then place in 
the center of a baking dieh. Wash some potatoes, 



The Complete Cook Book. 131 

using plenty of butter and no milk, and place this 
around the cauliflower. In the nieantime make a rich 
brown butter sauce, using One tablespoonful of butter, 
also one of flour ; when this is browned add gradually 
one-half pint of cream and one-half pint of milk. Sea- 
son well and let this cook thick and perfectly smooth. 
Then add two tablespoonf uls of grated Swiss cheese. 
Let boil up once, pour over the cauliflower and potatoes, 
and bake ten minutes. 

A MUSHROOOM SAVORY. 

Fry some diamond-shaped croutons, sprinkle them 
with cayenne, and keep them hot; meanwhile chop 
four ounces of mushrooms and toss them over the fire for 
five minutes, with one-half ounce of butter, and pep- 
per and salt; then add one ounce of grated bread 
crumbs, and c Attle finely chopped parsley; stir it over 
the fire for a moment, and spread it on the croutons. 
Add a few drops of lemon juice, and garnish with 
chopped parsley. 

STEWED PEANUTS. 

Shell the raw nuts, and blanch by pouring boiling 
water over them. After they have stood a few min- 
utes, the skins can be easily rubbed off. Add to a pint 
of the blanched nuts about two quarts of , water, put 
them into a bean pot; heat to boiling; then place in a 
slow oven, and cook for nine or ten hours. When 
done, they should be soft, mealy, and rich with juice. 
No seasoning except a little salt will be required. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Wash and dry well six fine, sound red tomatoes. 
Cut the top of each up, without detaching, so that it 
will serve as a cover. Scoop out the inside of each 
with a vegetable scoop ; and place on a plate for f urthei 
action. Season the inside of the six emptied tomatoes 
with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, 
equally divided. Chop very fine one medium-sized, 
sound, peeled onion; place it in a saucepan with hali 



132 The Complete Cook Book. 

an ounce of butter ; and cook for three minutes on a 
brisk fire, being careful not to let get brown. Add six 
chopped muBhrooms and one ounce of sausage meat. 
Season with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pep- 
per; cook for three minutes, stirring once in a while. 
Add now the tomatoes which were scooped out, with 
half a cupful of fresh bread crumbs and a teaspoonful 
of fresh chopped parsley. Mix well together, and cool 
for two minutes longer, or until it comes to a boil; then 
place in a bowl to cool. Stuff the emptied tomatoes 
with the above preparation, close down, and season 
with half a pinch each of salt and pepper. Make a 
stufiSng with one shallot, finely chopped, two cloves of 
crushed garlic, two hard-boiled egg-yolks, a teaspoon- 
ful of chopped chives, the same of parsley, two medium- 
sized, finely chopped anchovies, and an ounce of butter. 
Mix well together in a bowl, and cover the tops of the 
tomatoes with the stuffing, dividing it equally. Sprinkle 
a little fresh bread crumbs over them ; drip three or four 
drops of clarified butter over each tomato ; then place 
them in a very hot oven for eight minutes. Place them 
neatly on a hot dish and serve. 

SCRAMBLED TOMATOES. 

Remove the skins, and slice in a saucepan six large 
tomatoes. Add a little butter, pepper and salt, and 
cook until they are done. Beat two or three eggs, and 
just before taking up turn them in the tomatoes and stir 
one way for two or three minutes, or until eggs are 
cooked. Serve immediately. 

A NICE WAY TO COOK OKRA, OR GUMBO. 

Take a pint of young tender okra, chop it up fine, add 
to it half as much skinned, ripe, tomatoes, an onion cut 
up in slices, a tablespoonful of butter, a little salt and 
pepper, and a spoonful of water; stew all together till 
tender, and serve with meat or poultry. 

TO STEW MUSHROOMS. 

One pint mushroom buttons, three ounces fresh but- 
ter, pepper and salt to taste, lemon juice, one teaspoon- 
ful flour, cream or milk, a little nutmeg. Pare the 



The Complete Cook Book. 133 

mushrooms, put them into a basin of water with a 
little lemon juice. Take them from the water, put into 
a stewpan with the above ingredients. Cover the 
pan closely and let them stew gently twenty minutes. 
If the mushrooms are not perfectly tender, stew them 
five minutes longer; remove every particle of butter 
which may be floating on top, and serve. 

BEANS AND PEPPY. 

"Dear me! What shall I get for supper?" said 
mamma; then, suddenly the perplexed look on her face 
vanished, and she laughed aloud. 

Constance looked up quickly. " What are you laugh- 
ing at, mamma?" she asked smiling. She never med- 
dled with frowns, but when mamma laughed she 
wanted to know all about it, so that she could laugh 
too. 

Mamma laughed again. "I was thinking how often 
I've heard my mother say that very same thing, 'What 
shall I get for supper?' and no matter how mL,ny times 
she said it, if Sammy was around he'd always pipe up 
'beans and peppy.' He was very fond of baked beans, 
and he liked a lot of pepper on them; and he always 
spoke of the two things together. ' ' 

"Did grandmother's baked beans taste like the ones 
we have now-'days?" asked Constance, deeply inter- 
ested. Like many other children, she was always in- 
terested in good things to eat. 

"No," replied her mother, "I haven't baked any 
beans mother's way for a longtime, but I believe I will 
to-morrow; shall I?" 

"Oh, yes, mamma, do! Eix 'em just ezactly as 
your mother used to for Sammy, and I want to see how 
you do it." 

That night mamma put three cupfuls of small white 
beans in cold water to soak all night. Next morning 
she put them into fresh water and boiled them for two 
hours, stirring in a small lump of soda before taking 
them from the stove. Then, with a long-handled skim- 
mer she took them out into a big, shallow baking dish. 
She had ready a long, narrow piece of thick salt pork, 
streaked with lean— about half a pound in weight — 



134 The Complete Cook Book. 

which she had washed and soaked in cold water. With 
a sharp knife she scored the rind in narrow, even strips. 

"What do you do that for?" asked Constance, who 
was carefully watching her every movement. 

"When the beans are done the pork rind will be so 
hard and crisp I can't cut it nicely, so I have to do it 
beforehand," replied her mother. 

Then she pushed the pork right down into the mid- 
dle of the dish of beans, so that only the rind was in 
sight, and sprinkled a little salt, pepper, and two tea- 
spoonfuls of white sugar over the whole. Lastly, she 
filled the dish nearly full of water and set it into the 
hot oven. 

"It'll take two hours to bake 'em," she said to Con- 
stance, "and it won't hurt them to bake a good deal 
longer, if only the oven isn't hot enough to burn them. 
This water will mostly boil out, and when they're done 
they'll be all brown and crisp on top, and rich and juicy 
underneath." 

And so they were. Mamma set the baking dish 
right on the table, so as not to disturb the tempting sur- 
face. "That's the way mother used .to do," she re- 
tnarked, smilingly. 

And CDnstanoe ate her first plateful without a word, 
and passed her plate for more, abstractedly. 

For she was fancying herself back in those wonder- 
ful old times of "mother and we children," and she 
was little Sammy; and mother had "beans and peppy" 
for supper, and she had peppered her beans well. 

And when the dream was done, she leaned back in 
her chair with a satisfied sigh: "Well," she remarked, 
"I don't wonder that Sammy always said to have 
'beans and peppy, ' if this is the way grandmother baked 
her beans !" 

WINTER DISH OF BAKED BEANS AND 

PORK. 

This is a very heavy dish, but nourishing, and it is 
well to know how to cook it, as it is economical. Pick 
the beans, wash them, and put them to soak over night 
in plenty of water. In the morning pour this water off 
and put the beans in a kettle of cold water ; place them 



The Complete Cook Book. 135 

on the fire and let them simmer till quite tender. Take 
them up and drain them; when thoroughly drained, 
put them in a baking pan with a large piece of salt 
pork; score the pork and lay it deep in among the 
beans, not upon them. Pour boiling water over them, 
and bake till brown. If in a range, leave them in all 
night. This constant change of water improves the 
beans very much, and makes them less flatulent. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Take one quart of small white beans and soak them 
over night in cold water. Next morning throw off the 
water and cover them with fresh cold water ; add one 
pound of salt pork, one-half teaspoonful of soda, and 
simmer until the beans are soft enough to pierce with a 
straw, but be very careful not to let them boil enough 
to break. When soft, pour into a colander and pour 
cold water through them. Now place them in an 
earthen bean pot, slice the pork, and bury it in the 
beans. Add four tablespoonfuls of molasses, one scant 
teaspoonful of salt, and one teaspoonful of ground 
English mustard. Cover with water and bake from 
six to eight hours. Lift the pork to the surface the last 
hour and let it crisp. 

STEAMED KICE. 

Pour two cups of boiling water on one cup of well- 
washed rice; add half a teaspoonful of salt. Cook in 
the double boiler thirty minutes, or till soft. Eemove 
the cover, stir with a fork to let the steam escape, and 
dry off the rice. Rice will usually absorb twice, its 
bulk of water ; but when cooked in milk or stock a little 
more moisture will be required. Some of the nitrogen- 
ous and mineral constituents, of which rice has but a 
small amount, are lost in the iDoiling water, and unless 
the water be used for soup, to boil rice is a wasteful 
process. Steaming is a much easier method, and is 
more economical. Many dishes may be prepared from 
combinations of the various seasoning materials. 



136 The Complete Cook Book. 

BOILED RICE. 

Eice should be thoroughly washed and picked and 
covered with cold water until ready to cook. Have 
two quarts of water with one tablespoonful of salt, boil- 
ing rapidly in a saucepan. Sprinkle in very gradu- 
ally one cup of well washed rice so as not to stop it from 
boiling. Cover and boil it hard twenty minutes. Now 
pour off the water and set it on the back of the stove, 
which will allow the rice to dry and separate from the 
grains. Be sure to let it boil vigorously, and do not 
stir it. 

A FINE WAY TO COOK RICE. 

To one cup of rice add a small teaspoonful of salt and 
one quart of boiling water. Cook in double boiler 
rapidly for twenty minutes, then pour off all the water 
and add a half cup of veal or chicken soup stock — it 
must be white — cover tightly, return to the fire and cook 
a half-hour longer. The water in the under boiler 
must boil rapidly all the time. Rice cooked in this 
way wi?l have every grain separate and finely seasoned. 

BOILED HOMINY. 

Wash two cupfuls of hominy in cold water; drain off 
the water ; put it in a pan, covering over with four 
coffee-cups of water; place pan on stove, season to suit 
the taste; boil for nearly one-half hour, and serve. 

STEWED HOMINY. 

Wash a cupful of hominy, put it over the fire in two 
quarts of cold water, and slowly heat and boil it gently 
for about four hours, ornntil it is quite soft; then drain 
it and place it where the water will evaporate, while a 
cream gravy is being made as follows : Put over the 
fire two tablespoonfuls of butter, and partlj' melt them ; 
when the butter is quite soft, gradually stir with it half 
a pint of cream or an equal quantity of milk; if the 
cream is used, add it to the hominy as soon as it is hot; 
if milk is used, take it off the fire when it is hot, stir 
with it yolks of two raw eggs, and mix it with the 
hominy ; serve as soon as the milk or cream is added, 
as it curdles easily. 



The Complete Cook Book. 137 

FEIED HOMINY 

Take cold-boiled hominy and cut into slices; dip each 
slice into beaten egg; roll in bread crumbs; fry in very 
hot butter or lard until a good golden brown, and serve. 

FRIED MUSH. 

Make a good smooth mush of one and a half cups of 
boiling water, one-half teaspoonful of salt and one-half 
cup of cornmeai stirred slowly into it, and boil briskly 
until well-cooked. Meal made of old corn is apt to be 
dryer than that made of new, so care should be taken 
not to get the mush too thick. When cold, add one egg 
and mix thoroughly with a wire potato masher or a 
strong cooking spoon — the egg must be worked thor- 
oughly through all of it — then add flour enough to 
make into cakes. Now put a spoonful of good, sweet 
lard into your frying pan, and, when hot, put your 
mush cakes into it and fry them a rich brown on each 
side, then place on a hot platter and serve. 

FRIED MUSH. 

Most of us do not care for the simple supper fare of 
our grandparents — ^a bowl of mush and milk — and yet 
it is seldom seen in these days. For the reason of its 
rarity it is to gome a great luxury. It should be cooked 
for three hours, or, like the traditional Finney turnip, 
"till it can boil no longer. ' ' Allowed to cool in moulds, 
sliced and fried, it makes a delicious breakfast dish. 



138 The Complete Cook Book. 



CROQUETTES, CUTLETS, ETC. 



EGG CUTLETS. 

Six hard-boiled eggs, one raw egg, well beaten, six 
drops onion juice, six drops lemon juice, one teaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, one cup of cream or milk, one 
tablespoonful of butter and two tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Salt and pepper to taste. Put milk into a double boiler 
and when it reaches boiling point add flour and butter, 
which must first be rubbed smoothly together. Now 
chop your hard-boiled eggs coarsely and add to them 
butter, onion juice, salt, pepper, lemon juice and raw 
eggs. Add this mixture to your cream sauce and cook 
until almost too thick to stir ; then turn out on a platter, 
and when cool add the parsley and form into cutlets. 
Dip in beaten egg and cracker cri^imbs and fry a light 
brown in boiling fat. Stick a sprig of parsley or paper 
frill on the small end of each, and serve with Piquant 
sauce and green peas. 

NEVADA LOBSTER CUTLETS. 

Pick the meat from the shell of a boiled lobster and 
pound in a mortar with one tablespoonful of butter; 
salt and pepper to taste. After it is beaten to a smooth 
paste shape into cutlets; dip in beaten egg and bread 
crumbs and fry in smoking fat. Drain well and serve 
with Bechamel sauce. 

SAN FRANCISCO CHICKEN CUTLETS. 

Cut the breasts and white meat from several chickens 
or a turkey, reserving as many breasts as you wish for 
cutlets. With the remainder make a mince, adding 



The Complete Cook Book. 139 

to it the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, a half-cup of 
boiled chestnuts and some finely rolled bread crumbs. 
Pound this to a paste in a mortar, and then press 
through a colander. Flavor with a tiny bit of nutmeg, 
a teaspoonf ul of roasted ' powdered parsley, the grated 
juice of a shalot, two drops of essence of celery, salt and 
pepper to taste. Add enough rich fresh cream to bind 
all together, then with a broad bladed knife spread the 
mince smoothly, evenly and fully half an inch thick 
upon the chicken breasts. Have ready an equal quan- 
tity of tongue, ham and truffles cut into tiny rounds, 
with which dot the chicken breast. Place in a chafing 
dish, leaving quite a space between each one. Put in a 
liberal lump of fresh butter, and stew slowly, adding 
enough chicken broth to keep from burning. Serve 
very hot, surrounded by parsley, dotted with truffles 
and roasted chestnuts. This was give me by a noted 
housekeeper of the "Golden Gate City." 

SWEETBEEAD CUTLETS. 

Put one pair of heart sweetbreads in cold water; re- 
move the pips and membranes. Parboil them in boil- 
ing salted water with one tablespoonful of lemon juice 
twenty minutes, and plunge at once in cold water. Skin 
and chop them very fine with a silver knife. Add the 
yolks of two raw eggs, six or eight mushrooms chopped 
very fine, a few drops of onion juice, one tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley and pepper and salt to taste. Now 
put one cup of cream onto boil in a granite or porcelain 
lined stewpan, and rub one tablespoonful of butter and 
two tablespoonfuls of flour together, and stir into the 
boiling cream, and cook until it is almost too thick to 
stir. Then pour into the sweetbread mixture, and mix 
it thoroughly and turn out on a platter to cool. When 
cold, form into cutlets, dip in the beaten egg and bread 
crumbs and fry in boiling fat. Drain and serve with 
cream sauce. Arrange a fancy frill of paper on the 
end of each cutlet. 

CHICKEN AND BEAIN CUTLETS. 

These are made exactly like sweetbread cutlets, ex- 
cept you add one pint of cold cooked chopped chicken, 



140 The Complete Cook Book. 

or two Bets of parboiled brains instead of the sweet- 
breads. Shad roes are also very fine parboiled and 
made by this same recipe. 

LIVER CUTLETS— OEIGINAL. 

Soak one poundof calf s liver in cold water two hours 
to draw out the blood. Parboil it for twenty minutes; 
then chop it very fine. Into a saucepan put onej cup 
of milk, and when it reaches boiling point stir into it 
one tablespoonful of butter and two tablespoonfuls of 
flour which have first been rubbed together until 
smooth, and cook until it forms a smooth paste and 
very thick. Season liver with yolk of one raw egg, one 
teaspoonful of parsley, pepper and salt to taste; then 
pour in the cream sauce and mix well together. Pour 
on a platter to cool, and when cold form into cutlets, roll 
in egg and cracker crumbs and fry in boiling fat. 
Serve with thin slices of breakfast bacon fried crisp. 

MEAT TOAST. 

This is excellent, made of part veal and chicken. 
Chop your meat fine, season very well with salt, pep- 
per and a little mace. Make a white sauce; put the 
chopped meat into it and heat well; pour on buttered 
toasted bread. 

DELICIOUS CHICKEN CROQUETTES— 
OEIGINAL. 
To one fat hen chopped fine, use one large tablespoon- 
ful of parsley, one heaping teacupful of bread crumbs, 
one cup of cream or rich milk, one-half pound of butter, 
or use the rich liquor from the chicken and not so much 
butter, and the yolks of eight hard-boiled eggs. Mash 
and mix the butter with these, season with salt and 
pepper to taste. Make very moist by adding more milk 
if one cup is not sufficient. Roll in shape and dip in 
beaten egg, and then in cracker crumbs and fry in 
smoking fat. Serve with cream sauce and garnish 
with French green peas. 

BRAIN CROQUETTES— VERY FINE. 

Clean one set of calves' brains, remove the red mem- 
branes, and soak la ice water one hour. Then put them 



The Complete Cook Book. 141 

into one pint of boiling water and boil from five to ten 
minutes, with one teaspoonful of salt and one table- 
spoonful of lemon juice. When they have boiled ten 
minutes drain, and pour cold water on them. When 
cold, chop fine and add one and one-half cupfuls of 
cracker crumbs, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley; one 
large tablespoonful of butter and yolks of five hard- 
boiled eggs. Enough pure cream to make moist. 
Mash and mix the butter with the eggs, and add to the 
other ingredients. Salt and pepper 'to taste. Roll in 
shape and dip in beaten egg and then in cracker dust 
and fry in boiling fat. Drain and serve with green 
sauce. 

SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES. 

Sweetbread croquettes are made exactly like brain 
croquettes. It is also very nice to mix them. 

PORCUPINE CROQUETTES. 

These are made with chicken, veal, sweetbreads, 
brains, or any cold meat. When making them of 
chicken or veal, the brains and sweetlereads are quite 
an addition.? Chop fine one pint of cold cooked meat 
and season it with a few drops of onion jviice, a dust of 
nutmeg, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Salt 
and pepper to taste. Rub together one tablespoonful 
of butter, with two tablespoonfuls of flour, and when 
smooth add it to one cup of boiling cream or milk. 
Cook until thick, and then add meat. When cold, 
form into croquettes, roll in flour, then in egg, and last 
in vermicelli crushed flne with the rolling pin, and fry 
in boiling fat. If you use veal for them simmer it until 
tender in boiling water with two slices of onion, one 
bay leaf, one sprig of parsley and one clove. 

VEAL, BEEF OR CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Put one cup of sweet milk and three-quarters cup of 
bread crumbs on the fire to heat, adding salt and pep- 
per to taste as it boils and thickens. Take oflf and let 
cool. Have chopped finely one cup of cold cooked 



142 The Complete Cook Book. 

meat, add one raw egg well beaten, one dessertspoon- 
ful of parsley chopped fine, a teaspoonful of butter and 
a few drops of onion juice. Mix thoroughly and add to 
the warm mixture. Mould into croquettes and let cool. 
Dip in beaten egg and bread crumbs and fry in bet 
lard, and serve with cream sauce. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Peel, boil and mash one pint of hot boiled potatoes. 
Mix with the yolks of two eggs, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Salt and 
pepper to taste. One saltspoonful of celery salt, one- 
half teaspoonful of onion juice. Mix all together, and 
when cool add the yolks. Rub through a siove and 
then add parsley. Shape into croquettes and roll in 
cracker dust or bread crumbs and dip in beaten egg. 
Roll again in crumbs and fry in boiling fat. Drain 
well. 

HASH CROQUETTES. 

One pound sausage meat, two eggs (well beaten), one 
tablespoonful of butter, one-quarter cup of milk. Place 
on the fire and thicken with minced cracker crumbs. 
Mix well and form into croquettes. Roll in beaten egg 
and powdered crackers and fry in boiling fat. Drain 
well. Minced ham is also very nice by this same 
recipe. 

EXCELLENT MEAT FRITTERS. 

Cut very fine one cup of any kind of lean meat that 
is free from bone — cold roast beef, boiled ham, mutton 
,or chicken — add two cups of fine, well-dried bread 
crumbs, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful of melted butter 
and two well-beaten eggs. Mix thoroughly and make 
into cakes and roll in commeal ready to fry. Now 
put two tablespoonfuls of butter into your frying pan 
and let it brown, then lay in the fritters and fry them 
a nice brown. 



The Complete Cook Book. 143 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Ope boiled chicken, chopped very fine and seasoned 
with pepper, salt and a very little nutmeg. Put into a 
saucepan a piece of butter the size of an egg, one table- 
spoonful of flour, two eggs and one-half tumbler of 
cream. Mix till smooth. Then boil till the flour is 
cooked, taking care not to let it turn dark; if too thick, 
add a little more cream. Mix this with the chicken 
while warm ; then shape the croquettes, and put them 
on the ice to harden. When cold, roll them in egg 
beaten with crumbs, and fry in lard. 

COQUILLES. 

Take any kind of cold roast meat and cut it into very 
thin slices about an inch square and season it well; 
pour over it enough gravy and butter to moisten ; place 
in buttered scallop shells and sprinkle bread crumbs 
pretty thick on top ; and place in a hot oven until well 
browned; serve with almond horse radish sauce. 
Blanch and chop fine twenty-four almonds ; press from 
the vinegar four tablespoonfuls of horseradish; add to 
it the yolk of one egg, a saltspoonful of salt and the 
almonds; set over boiling water and stir continually 
until it thickens; when it has cooled somewhat mix 
well and stir in one cup of whipped cream — that is, on© 
cup after it is whipped. 

CREAMED CHICKEN. 

One fat hen, one pair sweetbreads and one-half can 
of mushrooms. Boil the chicken and sweetbreads, and 
when cold chop fine. Into a saucepan put one pint of 
milk or cream, and rub together two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and four tablespoonfuls of flour, and when the 
milk reaches boiling point stir in the butter and flour, 
and stir until smooth and thick. Flavor with one-half 
grated onion, and season with salt and pepper to taste, 
and put in a baking dish chicken, sweetbreads and 
mushrooms, well mixed. Cover with bread crumbs, 
dot with bits of breakfast bacon and bake fifteen min- 
utes. 



144 The Complete Cook Book. 

CHICKEN EN COQUILLE. 

The recipe that won the Examiner chafing dish set of 
1898, San Francisco, California: Singe, draw and 
clean a nice young chicken, put it in a large kettle, add 
one quart of boiling water, one slice of onion, one bay 
leaf, two cloves, one blade of mace and six pepper corns. 
Cover the kettle and allow the chicken to simmer until 
tender, say one hour; then take it out and set it aside 
to cool. When cold remove the white meat from the 
chicken, rejecting the skin and bones; cut the meat 
into dice. Put one tablespoonf ul of butter into a sauce- 
pan, add a rounding tablespoonful of flour, mix over 
the fire without browning. Then add one-half pint of 
cream, add one-half teaapoonful of salt, a truffle, 
twenty-four mushrooms chopped fine, a dash of white 
pepper, then the chicken. Stand the whole over boiling 
water or put in a chafing dish until thoroughly hot. 
Then add hastily the yolks of two eggs, cook just a 
moment, and serve at once. It may be served in 
shells, covered with fried bread crumbs, or just as it is. 
Do not cover with bread crumbs and bake in the oven, 
as the sauce will separate and make a greasy mixture. 
To fry the bread crumbs, have in the frying pan one 
tablespoonful of hot butter,and two or three tablespoon- 
fuls of dry bread crumbs, stir until fried, and free from 
grease; cover the top of shells and stand in the oven for 
a moment and serve. 

BAKED HASH. 

Certain quantity of cold cooked beef or veal, as much 
and half more of cold potatoes. Chop all together very 
fine. Add salt, pepper, butter and bread crumbs to 
taste. Season with minced onion and parsley. Beat 
one egg with one-half cup of milk and add to the mix- 
ture. Sprinkle bread crumbs over the top and lay on 
it one thin strip of breakfast bacon. Bake until 
brown, and fold like an omelet. 

HASH CAKES. 

One pound of pork sausage, one tablespoonful of 
rolled crackers and two well beaten eggs. Mix well 



The Complete Cook Book. 145 

and form into round cakes. Drop each one into 
cracker dust and fry in a frying pan without any kind 
of lard or fat. Cover the pan closely while frying. 

MY MOTHER'S TURKEY HASH. 

One and one-half pounds of shopped cooked turkey; 
put in a saucepan with throe tablespoonfuls of aaush- 
room liquor, one pint of sweet cream, one tablespoonful 
of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Let it all heat 
together five or ten minutes, and serve over fried bread 
or toast. A little of the turkey stuffing is also very 
nice added. 

HASH— VERY FINE. 

Certain quantity of cold cooked meat; as much and 
half more of cold chopped potatoes; as much chopped 
green tomatoes; one-third as much chopped raw onion; 
season to taste. Yolks of three eggs, one-third cup of 
cream and one teaspoonful of butter. Put the onions 
in a skillet with a little water and let it cook while 
chopping tomatoes, and cook until both are slightly 
tender before adding meat and potatoes. Season with 
salt and pepper to taste (sage if you like it,) and a little 
butter. Eeat the eggs in the cream thoroughly, pour 
it over the mixture in the skillet and let it simply scald. 
Serve on hot platter and garnish with cress or parsley. 

BEEF OR VEAL HASH. 

Take cold beef or,veal and chop very fine, removing 
the gristle and skin. Mix with it half as much cold 
boiled potatoes chopped ; season with salt and pepper 
and shake a spoonful of flour over it. Now chop a 
small onion and put it in a stewpan with one table- 
spoonful of butter and one pint of stock or water. Boil 
it down to half the quantity, and just before serving 
add the beef and potatoes and some chopped parsley. 
Let it scald for five minutes, and serve on toasted 
bread. Mushrooms are nice to add if you have them. 



146 The Complete Cook Book. 

FRIZZLED BEEF (No. 1). 

Shave off very thin slices of smoked or dried beef and 
cover with boiling wat«r, and let it stand ten minutes* 
then stir it up and drain off the water. To every half- 
pound of beef melt one tablespoonful of butter in a stew 
pan, and add the chips of beef. As soon as they begin 
to curl or frizzle, break over them three eggs and stir 
well until the eggs are cooked. Then take up and dust 
with white pepper and a tiny bit of salt and garnish 
with parsley. 

FEIZZLED BEEF (No. 2). 

Cut in thin shavings smoked or dried beef; cover 
with cold water and set on the back of range, and let 
come to a slow heat, but not boil. Then drain off the 
water, and to every pound of beef allow one generous 
tablespoonful of butter, one egg, one tablespoonful of 
flour and one-half pint of sweet milk. Melt the butter 
in a saucepan and heat the meat in it until it frizzles; 
dredge in the flour and stir again. Beat the egg in the 
milk ; heat it and add it slowly to the frizzled beef, and 
serve with poached eggs. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Three and one-half pounds of veal, fat and lean, and 
one slice of salt pork ground together until very fine ; 
six or eight snowflake crackers rolled fine, two eggs 
well beaten. A piece of butter size of an egg, one table- 
spoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of pepper (red and 
black mixed), one teaspoonful of nutmeg, and one tea- 
spoonful of onion juice. Mix thoroughly with your 
hands, and work it all together, and mold into the 
shape of an oval loaf. Press firmly and pack into a 
dripping pan. Sprinkle bread crumbs over it, put two 
or three small bits of butter and a thin slice of breakfast 
bacon on top and bake slowly two hours. Add one- 
half cup of hot water and baste often. Slice when cold. 
(You may add one teaspoonful of savory or marjoram 
i£ you like.) 



The Complete Cook Book. 147 

SAUSAGE LOAF. 

One pound of veal, two and one-half pounds of coun- 
try sausage, six snowflake crackers powdered, two 
eggs well beaten, a piece of butter the size of an egg, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper (red 
and black mixed), and a little grating of lemon rind. 
Mix thoroughly and form into an oval loaf. Pack into 
a dripping pan and sprinkle bread crumbs over it, and 
dot with bits of butter and two thin pieces of breakfast 
bacon on top, and bake two hours slowly. Add a little 
water and baste often. 

TONGUE LOAF. 

Boil one large tongue and chop very iSne; add salt 
and pepper, one cup of cracker crumbs, and three eggs, 
yolks and whites beaten separately till very light. 
Bake in a buttered pan. 



148 The Complete Cook Book. 



RELISHES AND ENTREES 



SANDWICHES. 

The best bread for sandwiches is home made, as it 
cuts better than bakers' bread. Cut away all the crust 
and wrap in a damp napkin or paraflSne paper to keep 
moist. 

PIQUANT SANDWICHES. 

Cut bread very thin, buttering it lightly on the loaf. 
Upon each slice spread a filling made by mixing three 
hard-boiled eggs minced extremely fine with half their 
bulk of sharp green pickle chopped equally small. 
Season this compound with salt and pepper to taste and 
work in a little butter. Lay another thin slice of bread, 
buttered side down, over this and cut them into square 
and triangular sandwiches. 

HAM AND TONGUE SANDWICHES. 

Into a saucepan put one-half cup of butter ; now mix 
one teaspoonful of ground mustard and one saltspoon- 
ful of salt, with just enough cold water to form a stiff 
paste, and add it to the butter; then add one and 
one-half tablespoonfuls of olive oil, yolk of one egg, 
one-half teasDoonful of onion juice and a few shakes 
of tabasco '"Bpce. Next mince one-quarter pound of 
cold boiled ham and tongue together, with one table- 
spoonful of chopped onion pickle. Mix altogether and 
squeeze a few drops of lemon juice over it. Then 
spread on thin slices of bread with a lettuce leaf on 
either side, and press the bread hard together. These 
are also very nice made of boiled smoked ham or tongue 
with French mustard spread over butter. 



The Complete Cook Book. 149 

CLUB SANDWICHES. 

Have some nice, thin slices of bread toasted, over 
which spread some thick made mayonnaise, and lay 
on each a lettuce leaf which has been washed in weak 
vinegar. Now lay on each lettuce leaf a shaving of 
cold boiled tongue, a very thin slice of cold baked 
turkey or chicken breast, an exceedingly thin slice of 
cold boiled ham or broiled breakfast bacon, over which 
sprinkle a little minced pickle. Then cover with 
another thin piece of toast spread with mayonnaise and 
lettuce leaf and press hard together. Garnish with 
gherkins and rings of hard-boiled eggs and serve with 
beer. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

To one cupful of chicken pounded to a paste add one- 
quarter cup of mayonnaise, six pickling onions, two 
saltspoonfuls of celery salt, a tiny bit of cayenne and a 
few drops of lemon juice. Spread between lettuce 
leaves or watercress and place between neat, thin 
slices of bread. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES— ORIGINAL. 

Sardines are put up now without bones or skin, and 
these are the most convenient to keep on hand for sand- 
wiches, as it saves a great deal of time. Chop one can 
of sardines up with one large minced sour cucumber 
pickle, four hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, one table- 
spoonful of oyster cocktail ketchup, one tablespoonf ul of 
made mayonnaise and the juice of one lemon. Place a ^ 
lettuce leaf that has previously been dipped in vinegar 
on one of Bent's thin water crackers, anq||spread this 
mixture on it; then place another cracker on top. Gar- 
nish with olives stuflEed with red pepper. 

EGG SANDWICHES. 

Egg sandwiches are made by simply pounding the 
yolks of hard-boiled eggs to a paste and seasoning with 
mustard, melted butter, pepper, salt and chopped 
pickle, to which you can add any minced cold meat or 



150 The Complete Cook Book. 

cheese. Serve between crackers and lettuce and gar- 
nish with parsley and rings of hard-boiled eggs. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Butter large, round water crackers and put between 
them a thin slice of Swiss cheese. Serve with Dill 
pickles. 

NUT SANDWICHES. 

Take some Gruyere cheese; mince it finely with one- 
half the quantity of fresh walnuts. Butter some very 
thin slices of bread with made mustard and spread the 
cheese and nuts on it and press close together. Boiled 
chestnuts are also very nice for a change. Garnish 
with slices of lemon and serve with a dry sherry. 

HAM TOAST FOE LUNCHEON. 

Beat the yolk of an egg with a tablespoonful of sweet 
milk; set it on the fire to warm, and thicken it with 
grated or finely chopped ham; let it simmer a few 
moments and pour it on buttered toast. This is for one 
person. 

HAM AND TONGUE TOAST. 

Toast a thick slice of bread and butter it on both 
sides ; take a small quantity of ham or tongue and grate 
it and put it in a stewpan with two hard-boiled eggs 
chopped fine, mixed with a little butter, salt and 
cayenne; make it quite hot, then spread thickly upon 
the buttered toast. Serve while hot. 

CHEESE TOAST. 

Cheese toast is a delicious dish for luncheon or tea. 
Put a teaspoonful of butter into a frying pan, when it 
is hot add gradually four tablespoonfuls of finely 
grated cheese — the Edam gives the best flavor — whisk 
it thoroughly until melted, then add a half-pint of 
cream; stir well, then add two well- beaten eggs, a good 
pinch of salt, paprika and a bit of mace. Spread it 
over crisp toast and serve at once. 



The Complete Cook Book. 151 

LUNCHEON TOAST. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs 'with four tablespoonfub 
of cream ; put in a saucepan, and when hot thicken it 
with gratetd ham or finely chopped tongue. Simmer 
a few minutes, and pour over buttered toast. Allow 
an egg for each person, and serve with lemon slices and 
cress. 

EGO TOAST. 

Rub smooth with a fork the yolks of six hard-boiled 
eggs, one-half teaspoonful of dry mustard, one table- 
spoonful of olive oil, salt and tabasco sauce to taste. 
Put into your chafing dish one cup of cream or milk; 
rub together one tablespoonful of butter with two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, and stir carefully into the boiling 
milk, and then add the whites of six hard-boiled egg 
chopped fine. Stir well, and remove when the boiling 
point is reached. Have ready thin slices of buttered 
toast spread with the yellow of egg paste thickly, and 
over this sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese. Ar- 
range on a platter and pour the hot white sauce over it, 
and serve with lettuce sandwiches. 

EAVIOLA— ORIGINAL. 

This recipe belonged to my grandmother and has never 
before been given to the public : Two sets of brains, 
five cents' worth of spinach or two heads of lettuce, 
one full cup of Italian cheese, grated, a suspicion of 
sweet balm, parsley and thyme; one full cup of cottage 
cheese or smearcase, yolks of eight eggs, one table- 
spoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of dry mustard, 
three tablespoonfuls of olive oil, twenty -six rolled snow- 
flake crackers, six buttons of garlic, and red pepper 
to taste. Chop lettuce or spinach and garlic very fine; 
also chop fine sweet balm, parsley and thyme; wash 
the brains and mash very light, then put in the cottage 
cheese, yolks of eggs, salt, mustard, olive oil, pepper, 
spinach, cheese and rolled crackers. Parboil brains ten 
minutes before adding them. 

Gbavy for Ea viola : Eight fresh tomatoes skinned 
and stewed with one tablespoonful of butter and a few 



152 The Complete Cook Book. 

drops of tabasco sauce; chop two onions and fry brown 
in one-half pint of olive oil, and add to the tomatoes with 
one can of chopped mushrooms. Make a dough of one 
egg beaten light with a pinch of salt and one-half gill of 
water; when well beaten stir in all the flour it will take 
until stiff enough to roll ; roll it out ; dot with one table- 
spoonful of the dressing, fold it over, cut it out like small 
turnovers, pinch the edges and drop into boiling salted 
water and boil about ten or fifteen minutes ; take it out 
and place it on a hot platter, sprinkle it over with 
grated cheese, and cover it with the above gravy. 
Very fine. 

ITOODLES— ORIGINAL. 

A valuable family recipe that has never before been 
published: Yolks of six eggs, beaten light, with two 
teaspoonfuls of salt and whites of two eggs and one gill 
of water; stir in all the flour it will take and roll into 
a thin sheet; rub with flour and roll it up like a jelly 
roll and shave it down as fine as possible; shake up 
with more flour and set aside until ready to use. 

Noodle Dressing : Three good-sized onions, sliced, 
and two buttons of garlic; fry slowly in one-half cup of 
butter; add one fried chicken, one-half pound of chopped 
beef to the onions and butter; when done add one set of 
fried brains, one pint of water and one quart can of toma- 
toes; let it all stew three hours. Boil noodles or maca- 
roni in salted water one-half hour, then drain it and add 
it to the beef and onions with one-half cup of grated red 
ball cheese and one-half can of mushrooms; then boil 
fifteen minutes longer. Season with red pepper and pars- 
ley. Mix together in a baking dish and brown nicely in 
an oven ; then raise edges with a fork and pour in olive 
oil. Serve with grated cheese and the following gravy : 
One can of tomatoes stewed with one tablespoonful of 
butter and a few shakes of tabasco sauce; chop two 
onions and fry brown in one-half pint of olive oil and 
add to the tomatoes with one-half can of mushrooms. 

MACARONI OR SPAGHETTI AND GRATED 

CHEESE. 

Take enough mararoni to fill a dish, break it into 
lengths and soak it in cold water for one hour. Then 



The Complete Cook Book. 153 

boil it until tender in salted water. Take it out and 
pour cold water through it. Line the bottom of a bak- 
ing dish with the boiled macaroni, then a layer of 
cheese, dust with salt and red pepper and dot with bits 
of butter. N<^w fill the dish with sweet milk, into 
which two eggs have been beaten, and bake until brown 
on top. Do not let it get dry. If you are scarce of 
milk, add water. Never serve it dry. 

CHAFING DISH CHEESE. 

Cooked cheese is more digestible, it is now claimed, 
than raw. A small pinch of carbonate of potash added 
to each tablespoonful of cheese will make it, in any 
case, digestible. 

CHEESE PUFES. 

Cheese pufiPs are made by taking an equal quantity 
of grated cheese and bread crumbs. Soak the bread 
crumbs in as much milk as they will absorb. To each 
pint of crumbs allow two eggs. Season with salt and 
not pepper. Place alternate layers of cheese and bread 
crumbs in a baking dish, add the eggs and bake aboiit 
fifteen minutes. Serve as soon as the dish is taken 
from the oven. Cut thin slices of bread about three 
inches square, heap them with grated cheese, taking 
care not to spread it within an eighth of an inch of the 
edges of the squares. Place them in a pan and put 
them in a quick oven. They should toast rapidly, that 
the cheese may not melt too much. Serve them on a 
hot dish, and cover them if the distance is long between 
kitchen and dining room. 

CHEESE ECLAIRES. 

Of all the preparations of cheese these are the most 
delicate and popular, and once the "hand is in" their 
making will be found very simple j the batter also 
answers for cream puffs either filled with whipped or 
made cream, and is made by putting on to boil half a 
pint of water and a heaping tablespoonful of butter ; when 
boiling stir briskly with a spoon in the right hand, while 



154 The Complete Cook Book. 

with the left eight rounded tablespoonfuls of flour (four 
ounces) is sprinkled in; it will soon form a ball which 
will leave the side of the saucepan; put this aside and 
when cold add four eggs, beating them in one at a time; 
when they are all in beat briskly for five minutes (watch 
the time). The mixture is now to remain in a warm 
place for half an hour and stirred occasionally ; it is 
then ready to be dropped, a tablespoonful at a time and 
two inches apart on a buttered tin, popped into a brisk 
but not scorching oven and baked about twenty min- 
utes ; when done they will b« puffed out and brown. 
When cold make an opening in the side and fill with 
the following mixture while hot. They may be shut 
up in a hot oven for a moment just before sending to 
table. For the filling have a quarter of a pound of 
grated cheese, a gill of milk in which is dissolved as 
much bi-carbonate of potash as will stand on a ten-cent 
piece, half a teaspoonful of mustard, a saltspoonful of 
white pepper, a grain of cayenne, the sixth part of a 
nutmeg grated, two tablespoonfuls of flour very slightly 
browned in the oven, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
stirred over a slow fire until the cheese is completely 
melted. Then beat up three eggs, yolks and whites 
together; stir these into the whole and bake in a but- 
tered dish until it is nearly solidified. If a souffle effect 
is desired, for the filling beat the white very stiff and 
add at the last; however, this falls unless served with 
lightning speed, and is apt to toughen. The mixture 
without the souffle is recommended very highly by 
Professor Matthew Williams, the well-known chemist 
who has made the wholesome cookery of cheese a scien- 
tific study. When encased in puffs it is the most deli- 
cious combination imaginable. 

CREAMED MACAEONI WITH CHEESE. 

Break one-quarter pound of macaroni into one inch 
pieces, drop into two quarts of boiling salted water and 
boil about twenty minutes, or until tender. When 
done, drain in a colander and throw into cold water for 
ten minutes to blanch; drain again and place in a 
pretty bowl. At serving time put into the chafing 
dish a rounding tablespoonful of butter ; light the lamp. 



The Complete Cook Book. 155 

When the butter is melted, add a rounding tablespoon- 
Eul of flour, rub together until mixed, then add half a 
pint of milk, stir until it bubbles, add half a teaspoon- 
Eul of salt and a speck of cayenne. Now, add the 
macaroni and stir until thoroughly heated, then stir in 
one-quarter pound of grated cheese; when melted put 
out the light and serve. 

SCALLOPED CHEESE. 

This is a fine dinner course as well as luncheon. 
Take three slices of stale bread, and grate fine a quar- 
ter of a pound of good cheese, lay the bread in layers 
in a baking dish, sprinkle well with the cheese, salt and 
paprika until all is used. Mix four beaten eggs with 
three cups of milk and pour over the bread and cheese. 
Bake as a pudding. 

BAKED CHEESE PUDDING. 

Two cupfuls of broken crackers or stale bread, one 
cupful of grated cheese, Gruyere or any mild variety; 
place in a buttered baking dish alternate layers of 
crackers and cheese, a dust of salt and pepper and small 
pieces of butter. When the dish is full pour in sufiScient 
cold milk to two-thirds fill the dish and bake forty-five 
minutes in a hot oven. 

CHEESE TARTS. 

Cheese tarts are delicious. They are a modern sub- 
stitute for the dried ginger of Canton, that our grand- 
mothers used to serve just before the ice cream, to 
make its coolness more appreciated. For these, sprinkle 
a piece of rich, thinly rolled pastry with grated Parme- 
san and some cayenne; line tartlet tins with it, and 
bake. When quite cooked and very hot, pour in the 
following mixture: stir over the fire three ounces of 
Gruyere and Parmesan cheese, with a small cupful of 
Bechamel sauce, a spoonful of cream, and a little 
cayenne. Pour into the tartlets and serve at once. 



156 The Complete Cook Book. 

BRAISED TONGUE— ENGLISH STYLE. 

This is an economical dish, and an excellent one for 
dinner. Select a fresh tongue about three pounds, and 
simmer slowly until sufficiently soft to remove the skin 
and roots. Put it into a baking pan and cover with the 
following sauce : Brown one tablespoonful of butter, 
add one of flour; pour over it three cupfuls of stock or 
water. If water, use that in which the tongue was 
boiled. Then add one small carrot cut fine, two table- 
spoonfuls of finely minced onion, one sprig of parsley, 
a saltspoonful of celery seed or salt, one teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce and a pinch each of salt and pep- 
per. After pouring the sauce over the tongue, bake it 
two hours in a covered pan. Remove the tongue and 
strain in a covered pan. Remove the tongue and strain 
the gravy over it. This is a delicious way to serve 
tongue hot. What is left may be cut in slices for lunch 
the next day, or made over into croquettes or patties. 

ICED PARMESAN PYRAMIDS. 

For the simplest of cold savories, tiny sandwiches of 
brown bread and butter can be spread with a puree of 
sardines, the slices rolled cigar fashion, piled high on a 
dish, and garnished with lobster coral. A favorite 
savory for the iced dinners that are so popular a whim 
at present is iced Parmesan pyramids. Roll thin some 
puff paste, cut in neat squares, and bake in a quick 
oven. Whip some cream to a stiff froth, flavor with a 
little cayenne, white pepper, salt and Parmesan cheese 
to taste; when the squares are cold, pile them with the 
cream, and place over ice before serving. 

SPICED BEEF. 

' Place one and one-half pounds of beef on the fire in a 
kettle, with just enough water to cover, and boil slowly 
until it is so tender that it may be readily torn to pieces. 
By this time the water should be reduced in quantity 
one-half, but if it is not, skim out the meat and boil 
down the liquor to the proper amount. Then return 
the beef to the kettle, and with a knife and fork tear 



The Complete Cook Book. 157 

it into shreds, mixing it with the liquor. Add one and 
one-fourth teaspoonfuls of salt and one-fourth tea- 
spoonful each of ground pepper, cloves, cinnamon and 
allspice. Mix well and turn the whole into a mould. 
When cold turn from the mould and slice neatly for serv- 
ing. Excellent for luncheon. 

DEVILED MEAT. 

Chop, not too fine, any cold cooked meat. Into a 
saucepan or chafing dish put one tahlespoonful of but- 
ter and two tablespoonfuls of stale bread crumbs, and 
fry until a delicate brown. Add one pint of meat, one- 
half teaspoonful of ground egg, mustard, salt and red 
pepper to taste. When hot, add the yolks of three hard- 
boiled eggs mashed fine, one-half cup of stock or water; 
let boil up and serve hot over buttered toast. 

MUTTON EAGOUT. 

Chop one pint of cold cooked mutton. Now into a 
granite or porcelain lined saucepan put two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, one cup of stock or water, one-half can 
of French peas masbed, one-half head of lettuce 
shredded, salt and pepper to taste. Cover and cook 
slowly one hour and a quarter, and serve with boiled 
rice. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

One quarter pound of soft American cheese broken 
in small pieces or grated, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
two tablespoonfuls of ale, one saltspoonful of ground 
English mustard, a suspicion of garlic, a bit of cayenne 
and a saltspoonful of salt. Stir over the fire with a 
wooden spoon until it melts. Add cheese last, and 
serve at once on buttered toast. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

One quarter pound soft American cheese cut in small 
pieces, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one saltspoonful 
of dry mustard and salt, a dust of cayenne pepper, one- 
half teaspoonful of tomato ketchup, one-quarter of 



158 The Complete Cook Book. 

Worcestershire sauce and the yolks of two raw eggs 
beaten in one-half cup of milk. Stir over the fire until 
they are smoothly melted together, and pour over but- 
tered toast. 

WELSH EAEEBIT, 

A nice change is made by placing a poached egg with 
a thin slice of breakfast bacon on top of the egg, and 
laid on top of each rarebit as it is served. 

FRIED BRAINS— ORIGINAL. 

Stand brains in ice water for one hour to plump them, 
after washing clean, and skinning. Then plunge them 
into one pint of boiling water with one tablespoonful 
of salt and one tablespoonful of strained lemon juice, 
and boil for ten minutes. Now slice them, or break 
into pieces, dust with a little salt and pepper mixed, 
and fry them in a batter made as follows : One egg 
well beaten, one tablespoonful of flour and one teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder; drop into boiling fat and fry one 
at a time a golden yellow. 

BRAIN GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Clean and skim one set of calf's brains and plump 
them in ice water for one hour. Now cover them with 
one pint of boiling water, one teaspoonful of salt and 
one tablespoonful of strained lemon juice, and boil ten 
minutes. Remove and drain off water, and rub them 
through a colander. Then add to them eight table- 
spoonfuls of cornstarch and flour mixed, the beaten 
yolks of two eggs, one teaspoonful of baking powder, 
pepper and salt to taste. Beat well, and last of all stir 
in the well-beaten whites of two eggs and fry on a hot 
griddle in round cakes. 

DEVILED COLD CHICKEN. 

Take the legs and wings of any cold fowl. Dress 
with pepper, salt, mustard, and butter; then broil. 

SPANISH TAMALES. 

Pick and roll in flour one cup of seedless raisins, add 
three eggs well beaten, one tablespoonful of melted but- 



The Complete Cook Book. 159 

ter, one cup of milk, three-quarters of a cup of sugar 
and twelve ears of fresh grated corn. Now beat into 
this one cup of flour. Cinnamon and salt to taste. Mix 
these ingredients well together. Spread two or three 
of the largest leaves of corn together ; let them overlap 
each other like shingles. Put a tablespoonful of the 
solid batter in the leaves, turn the edges up and roll up 
all together, tie them with twine and boil them thirty 
minutes in salted water. Serve cold. 

CHILI CON CARNE. 

Pronounced chilly con carny, and meaning pepper 
with meat, is a kind of hash, excellent for a breakfast 
dish. To make it, carefully wash and remove the 
stems of three dozen large Chili peppers. Put them in 
a saucepan with several bay leaves, pour over them a 
pint of boiling water and let them boil until thoroughly 
soft, then mash through a wire sieve. Now chop one" 
large onion and half a dozen cloves of garlic very fine; 
put in a saucepan with three pounds of tender beefsteak, 
also chopped fine; add two tablespoonfuls of lard. Let 
these ingredients fry in a saucepan until the meat is 
well done, but not hard, then stir in the Chili peppers 
and salt to taste. Let the whole simmer over a slow 
fire for an hour, stirring occasionally, then serve. It 
is excellent served with buttered toast or buckwheat 
cakes. 

HOT TAMALES. 

Hot Tamales, pronounced ta-ma-lys, are made as fol- 
lows : One pound of tender beef, boiled until well done, 
with a whole small onion, an even teaspoonful of salt 
and half of an ordinary pepper pod. Remove the beef 
and onion when done and chop them very fine, or put 
through the meat grinder ; add a heaping teaspoonful of 
butter, melted. Now sift in a pan half a pint of corn- 
meal, add to it a tablespoonful of melted lard, and pour 
over it half a pint of the water in which the meat was 
boiled — be sure that the water is boiling briskly when 
poured upon the veal — stir together quickly; the meal 



i6o The Complete Cook Book. 

dough should be just stiff enough to handle easily. 
Now get some white corn husks, wash them in clear, 
hot water, perfectly clean; separate the husk, and 
select one of the broadest, nicest parts, lay this on the 
table, put a tablespoonful of the meal dough on one side 
of it, pat the dough out until about half an inch thick, 
two broad, and about four long; lay upon this meal 
cake a generous tablespoonful of the chopped meat, then 
roll up the com husk as a cigarette is rolled, beginning 
at the side on which is the dough ; fold the two ends of 
the rolled husk over toward the middle, and tie the 
whole securely with a string made of a shred of the 
husks. Having made all the tamales in this way, put 
them in a pot of boiling, clear water, and let them boil 
for about an hour, or they may be steamed in a colander 
if preferred. They may be served hot for breakfast or 
supper, the husks to be removed as they are eaten. 

CHICKEN TAMALES. 

Massa : Boil two pounds of corn and a handful of lime 
in water enough to cover until the skins of the corn are 
loosened, then wash the lime from the corn and grind 
the latter very fine ; add a scanty pound of prime lard 
and miz well, like bread dough ; salt to taste, and if the 
dough is hard stir in a little of the resulting liquid of 
the boiled chicken or meat. 

CoEN Husks: First soak the corn husks in warm 
water, and then wash them in cold water to harden 
them ; spread the com mixture or massa on each separ- 
ate husk. 

Chicken Chili : Boil three pounds of chicken or 
beef (if beef is used get four pounds of veal and four 
ounces of veal suet chopped and fry with onions and but- 
ter until cooked in covered kettle) ; having boiled one- 
half pound of red peppers until soft, remove the seeds and 
skins; take five good-sized onions and one-half small 
head garlic ; fry in one-half pound lard or butter, then 
add a little flour to thicken ; a small quantity of sliced 
tomatoes, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, the pulp of the 
red peppers and one tablespoonful of ground chilis; also 
one-half glass of brandy; mix this preparation with 



The Complete Cook Book. i6i 

the minced chicken or beef, then boil in a short time 
and salt to taste ; spread a wet corn husk with the 
massa, put in one tablespoonful of the chicken chili, 
slices of boiled eggs, pickles, olives, raisins and a few 
almonds if desired ; then put on another corn husk in 
the bottom and a dish containing the tamales upon the 
busks in the kettle and let steam from one to two hours. 



1 62 The Complete Cook Book. 



SALADS AND DRESSINGS. 



All salads made of uncooked vegetables must be crisp 
and very fresh. If you cannot obtain olive oil, substi- 
tute fresh butter or cream. Always use the best elder 
vinegar and add it last. Use more or less seasoning, 
according to taste. 

FROZEN CUCUMBER SALAD— ORIGINAL. 

Take six large green cucumbers, cut a slice length- 
wise from each one, and with a silver teaspoon or your 
fingers remove the seeds and pulp, and throw the hulls 
in cold water until ready to use. Peel and chop 
coarsely two whole cucumbers, add to them the seeds 
and pulp of the other six and let it stand in salted ice 
water one hour. Cucumbers should have a thick peel- 
ing taken off of them, as they are bitter near the skin. 
Now drain the water from them, add two tablespoonfuls 
of chopped chives, one teaspoonful of grated onion, two 
tablespoonfuls of chopped celery, one tablespoonful of 
Durkee's dressing, one cup of mayonnaise salt and 
tabasco sauce to taste. Color with spinach green and 
freeze. When frozen stuff the cucumber hulls with it, 
place them on fresh crisp lettuce leaves and serve at 
once. It should be a light green when frozen. This is 
new and beautiful as well as good. 

POTATO SALAD. 

I prefer to mix my potato salad while the potatoes 
are hot, as they are less soggy. A spoonful of chopped 
green peppers cooked is an improvement if you have 
them on hand. Boil one pint of potatoes until soft. 
When done peel and slice them into a bowl that has 



The Complete Cook Book. 163 

been rubbed with garlic or a cut onion. Season with 
pepper and salt, one-quarter cup of chopped celery or a 
few celery seeds, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
yolk of one hard-boiled egg rubbed fine, and one minced 
cucumber pickle. Pour over it a dressing of two table- 
spoonfuls of oil, one teaspoonful of mustard, one tea- 
spoonful of sugar and half a cup of vinegar. Toss all 
well together without breaking the potatoes. Line a 
dish with some nice crisp lettuce leaves and put in the 
salad. Garnish with some sprigs of parsley and the 
chopped white of a hard-boiled egg. 

SHRIMP OR SALMON SALAD. 

Take one pint or a box of boiled and skinned shrimps ; 
lay them in a deep dish, with salt and pepper, and two- 
thirds as much chopped celery as you have shrimps, and 
pour over it the following dressing : One cup of vine- 
gar, one-half cup of water, one teaspoonful of corn- 
starch, mixed in the cold vinegar, one and one-half tea- 
spoonfuls of mustard and a very small teaspoonful of 
salt and white pepper; have vinegar and water boiling; 
add mustard, salt and pepper; boil well and remove 
from the fire ; have an egg well beaten and stir in the 
mixture briskly, and add to shrimps or salmon. Serve 
in tomatoes, green pepper or cucumber hulls, or simply 
on lettuce. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Take a fresh boiled, medium-sized lobster, cut it in 
two and pick out the meat, carefully abstracting the 
gall; cut the meat into dice and place in a bowl that 
has been rubbed lightly with a little garlic or a cut 
onion ; add one branch of chopped celery, one teaspoon- 
ful of chopped green chives, one-fourth teaspoonful of 
onion juice, one finely minced hard-boiled egg, one 
scant teaspoonful of chopped parsley and one-fourth 
head of clean, firm lettuce, chopped fine ; season with 
salt and "white pepper, one tablespoonful of olive oil, 
one tablespoonful of vinegar and four tablespoonfuls of 
thick mayonnaise; toss and mix this all well together. 
Serve in cups of lettuce leaves. Decorate with capers. 



i64 The Complete Cook Book. 

olives stuffed with red peppers, and rings of hard" 
boiled eggs. 

LETTUCE SALAD— ORIGINAL. 

Take two nice, crisp heads of lettuce, pare off the 
outer leaves, pick over and wash each leaf carefully; 
drain off the water and keep the lettuce in a cool place 
until ready to serve. It should always be served cool 
and crisp. Lettuce leaves should always be torn apart, 
as cutting causes them to wilt. Arrange in a bowl and 
pour over them the following dressing : Mash with a 
fork the yolk of one hard-boiled egg with one teaspoon- 
ful of mustard, one scant teaspoonful of sugar and one 
tablespoonful of cream; add drop by drop two table- 
spoonfuls of olive oil; stir well and then add the yolk 
of one raw egg, two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice or 
vinegar, and salt to taste; chop the white of your hard* 
boiled egg and add to the sauce. 

APPLE SALAD. 

Take small, smooth red apples that are very tart; cut 
a slice from the blossom end, and with an apple corer 
and teaspoon remove the core and pulp, being careful 
not to break the skins ; throw them into cold water to 
keep them from discoloring, and chop the pulp rather 
coarsely. Mix it with chopped green onions (if you 
are fond of them) and pour over it a French dressing. 
Serve it in the apple hulls, garnished with apple blos- 
soms or nasturtiums. 

CHICKEN SALAD— ORIGINAL. 

When thoroughly cold, pick all the meat from a fine 
boiled or baked chicken well seasoned. Cut into dice 
the white meat, only reserving the dark meat for cro- 
quettes and the bones for cream soup if you desire it 
extra nice. Add to your cut chickens the white part of 
four or five roots of crisp celery, or two-thirds as much 
celery as you have chicken, and one sour cucumber 
pickle chopped fine. Set it away in a cool place while 
you make the following dressing: Mash smooth with a 



The Complete Cook Book. 165 

wooden spoon or fork, the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, 
one teaspoonful of dry mustard, two teaspoonfuls of 
sugar, salt and pepper to taste. Eub this to a paste 
and then add to it one-quarter cup of best olive oil in a 
slow stream, stirring all the time, and one-quarter cup 
of grease skimmed from the water the chicken was 
boiled in. Beat this until well creamed and finish with 
half a cup of good vinegar and juice of one lemon. 
Pour this over the celery and chicken. Toss it 
together lightly with a silver fork and garnish with let- 
tuce, and hard-boiled eggs, red beets, capers or stoned 
olives. If the chicken is baked use half a cup of olive 
oil. In summer or when you cannot get celery, use 
crisp white cabbage chopped fine and a few celery seeds. 
It is pretty served in nests of shaved lettuce. 

MIXED SALAD. 

Eemove the seeds and pulp from tomatoes and set the 
bulls in shaved ice; then stuff them with cucumbers, 
sliced spring onions and minced bell peppers; cover 
them with either French salad dressing or mayonnise. 

TOMATO SALAD— OEIGINAL. 

Take six fine, firm red tomatoes ; plunge them into 
boiling water for one minute ; drain in a cloth and re- 
move the skins ; now with a very sharp- pointed knife 
begin at the center of each tomato and cut down to the 
stem end and turn down each section, just exactly as 
yoit would an orange; this will leave a ball of seeds in 
the center and your tomato will look like a red lily. 
Place them on ice till ready to serve. Garnish the 
plate with nasturtium flowers and leaves, and serve 
with either French salad dressing or mayonnaise. 

FEOZEN TOMATO SALAD. 

Select six firm, red tomatoes, wash and wipe them 
dry, and cut a slice from the stem end of each ; remove 
the seeds and pulp without breaking the skins; to the 
seeds and pulp add two whole tomatoes, skinned and 
chopped rather coarsely, one root of crisp, white celery 



1 66 The Complete Cook Book. 

chopped fine, one teaspoonful of onion juice, a palatable 
seasoning of salt and pepper, one tablespoonful of 
Durkee's salad dressing and one cup of mayonnaise; 
color red with fruit coloring ; pour into a small freezer 
and when frozen fill the tomato hulls with it. Place 
them on a lettuce leaf and serve. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH CHESTNUTS. 

Cut a slice from the stem end of six tomatoes ; scoop 
out the inside with a teaspoon and add three tabl«spoon- 
fuls of olive oil, three tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, one 
teaspoonful of sugar, one white onion, grated, salt and 
pepper to taste, and one-half pound of chestnuts, grated; 
put back in the tomato hulls; place mayonnaise on top 
and serve on a lettuce leaf. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD. 

Clean and parboil one pair of calf's heart sweetbreads, 
then throw in cold water three-quarters of an hour; 
cover them with fresh boiling water and simmer twenty 
minutes ; add to the water one bay leaf, a sprig of par- 
sley, one-half teaspoonful of salt and a slice of onion ; 
when it reaches boiling point throw the sweetbreads in 
cold water and slice them with a silver knife ; add two- 
thirds as much chopped white celery, and season 
with salt and pepper; put it into a bowl that has been 
rubbed lightly with garlic or a cut onion, and mix with 
it carefully one cup of mayonnaise. 

MOTHER R'S COLD SLAW. 

Use a fresh firm white head of cabbage, lay it in cold 
water for an hour, then drain it and shred or chop it; 
put it in a tureen and cover with a dressing made as 
follows: One scant tablespoonful of flour, mixed with 
one tablespoonful of butter, and to this add two table- 
spoonfuls of milk, one cup of vinegar, one tablespoonful 
of salt, two teaspoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of 
mustard, one-fourth saltspoonful of cayenne; place in a 
saucepan on the fire and allow it to thicken ; at the last 
moment stir in the yolks of two eggs; stir rapidly and 
pour over the cabbage; cover closely and serve. Deli- 
cious with fried oysters or fish. 



The Complete Book Book. 167 

MOTHER R'S WAEM CREAM SLAW. 

Take a tureen full of finely cut cabbage ; mix in it 
salt, pepper and mustard to taste; take one-half pint 
of cream, a lump of butter size of an egg or walnut, 
one tablespoonful of sugar and yolks of two eggs well 
beaten ; place on the stove and let come to a boil ; then 
add CHie-half or two-thirds cup of vinegar; stir briskly 
when you pour vinegar in the boiling mixture or it will 
curdle ; when it again comes to boiling point pour over 
the cabbage and cover closely for a few moments before 
sending to the table; new milk will do if you haven't 
cream. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD. 

One pair sweetbreads, one bunch celery, one-half 
pound English walnuts, mayonnaise dressing. Thor- 
oughly wash the sweetbreads, removing all the mem- 
branous pipes and tough outer skin. Lay in cold 
water about ten minutes, then drop into boiling salt 
water and boil about thirty minutes. Lay in cold 
water a short time, wipe dry and mince fine. Crisp the 
celery by laying in cold water, then cut into half-inch 
lengths. Shell the nuts and boil about ten minutes in 
boiling salted water, then throw into cold water to 
harden. Drain and chop fine. Mix sweetbreads, celery 
and nuts all together and cover with a rich mayon- 
naise. Serve on a crisp lettuce leaf and decorate with 
nasturtiums. Accompany with salt wafers, which can 
be purchased fresh at any first-class grocery. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

Dunbar shrimps well rinsed, spreading them over 
shredded lettuce. 

Dressing: Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs smoothed 
to a paste; one egg well beaten ; add three tablespoonfuls 
of oil or drawn butter; one tablespoonful French mus- 
tard; teaspoonful salt ; small tablespoonful sugar; five 
tablespoonfuls good vinegar; set dish in pan of boiling 
water, stirring constantly until done. Before serving 
add juice of one lemon. 



i68 The Complete Cook Book. 

SOUR CREAM SALAD DRESSING, 

Add one tablespoonf ul lemon juice to one-half cup sour 
cream shaking in a few grains of paprika or white pep* 
per, and one-fourth teaspoonful salt. Use it on a mix- 
ture of cucumber and onion. 

MAYONNAISE— ORIGINAL. 

Yolk of one fresh egg, one scant teaspoonful of 
ground mustard, half teaspoonful of salt, a few shakes 
of tabasco sauce, one cup of olive oil and juice of one 
lemon. Mis the egg and mustard well in a large soup 
plate with a wooden fork, then pour in the olive oil in 
a very fine stream, or drop by drop. When it becomes 
thick alternate it with the lemon juice a little of each 
at a time. Make long strokes around with the fork, 
and in hot weather set you r plate on a block of ice. 
Finish with salt and tabasco sauce to taste. Some like 
the addition of a few drops of onion juice. Mayonnaise 
should be made on a bright day. It is much harder to 
make in rainy, damp weather. 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING. 

Into a bowl put half a teaspoonful of salt- and a quar- 
ter of a teaspoonful of pepper; add gradually six table- 
spoonfuls of olive oil, a quarter of a teaspoonful of onion 
juice, and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Stir vigor- 
ously for a few moments. For some salads half a tea- 
spoonful of mustard should be added. 

SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL. 

Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs rubbed fine with a fork, 
two raw eggs beaten very light, one teaspoonful of dry 
mustard, one teaspoonful of sugar, half a cup of white 
wine vinegar, juice of one large lemon, half a cup of 
melted butter, strained. Beat all together until very 
light. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Put into 
a double boiler and beat all the while it thickens. Add 
a Ijttle cream if too thick or desired. 

SALAD DRESSINGS. 
To make mayonnaise without oil put the yolks of 
four eggs in a small, narrow saucepan. Melt four 



The Complete Cook Book. 169 

ounces butter. Let it stand a few minutes. Then re- 
move the white scum and pour the clear butter in a 
cup, leaving the sediment in the bottom of the sauce- 
pan. Add the clarified butter slowly to the yolks while 
stirring constantly. Place the saucepan in a pan of hot 
water near the fire. Stir until it thickens and remove 
at once. Continue the stirring for a few minutes. 
Add a pinch of salt, a teaspoonful lemon juice, and 
last two tablespoonfuls whipped cream. The cream, 
if not at hand, may be omitted, but the sauce is not 
quite so nice. Great care should be taken in preparing 
this sauce, to remove it from the fire as soon as it begins 
to thicken, otherwise the yolks will curdle. 

For a salad dressing without oil we recommend the 
following: Yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, yolk of one 
raw egg, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one tablespoon- 
ful of melted butter, one gill of thick cream, one-half 
teaspoonful of salt, one-quarter teaspoonful of pepper. 
Mash hard-boiled yolks until perfectly fine and work 
in gradually the raw yolk. This must be perfectly 
smooth paste; then add the salt, pepper and melted but- 
ter. When well blended add by degrees the cream, 
working and stirring all the time. Then add gradually 
the vinegar, and it is ready for use. Put in a cold 
place. 

Excellent salad dressing may be made without oil in 
the following manner : Take the yolks of two hard- 
boiled eggs and make them into a smooth paste in a 
basin which has been rubbed with shallot. Add about 
half a teaspoonful of mustard, some cayenne, black 
pepper and salt to taste ; then by degrees stir in four or 
five tablespoonfuls of cream. Lastly, mix in tarragon 
vinegar according to taste, and pour over the wiped 
lettuce leaves. 

Cut two slices of bacon into small dice and fry until 
hard, to which add about a third of a cup of vinegar ; 
let cool a few minutes and pour over two heads of crisp 
lettuce which have been previously salt and peppered. 
Garnish with two hard-boiled eggs. 



170 The Complete Cook Book» 



SAUCES FOR MEATS, GAME, ETC. 



HINTS ON THE USE OF MUSTARD. 

It has been said by one of our greatest novelists that 
the condition of the cruet is a pretty fair test of what 
sort of a meal one is to expect. Is it too much to say 
that the mustard pot is often the most neglected of the 
cruet fittings? And why? Perhaps the cheapness of 
mustard plays a prominent part. Certainly in many 
houses it is abused more than used, a far greater 
amount being washed away than is eaten. Here are 
the simple rules to avoid waste and have the mustard 
in good condition. Make small quantities at a time. 
Wash the pot as it is emptied and dry it <well before re- 
filling. Mix the mustard free from lumps, using water 
that nas been boiled and left to get cold. Boiling 
water destroys the fl^avor, and cold water is apt to set 
up fermentation. A little salt is added by many cooks, 
while some favor the addition of a pinch of sugar ; but 
these are optional items. Do not buy mustard in paper 
and leave it lying about, it absorbs other flavors and 
loses strength. A tin is the thing. 

SISTER MOLLIE'S HORSE RADISH SAUCE. 

To be served with roast beef: One cupful of grated 
horse radish, one wineglassful of vinegar into which 
has been dissolved one dessertspoonful of sugar, one 
dessertspoonful of mustard and one teaspoonful of salt 
Stir thoroughly and keep tightly corked. This will 
keep for a month. A clove or garlic is an improve- 
ment. ^ 



The Complete Cook Book. 171 

HORSE RADISH SAUCE (No. 2). 

Four tablespoonfuls of grated horse radish, one-half 
teaspoonful of salt, yolk of one egg. Rub together and 
add to this one teaspoonful of vinegar and six table- 
spoonfuls of whipped cream. Stir gently, 

SAUCE TART A RE. 

To be served with cold meats : First make a mayon- 
naise. Place the yolk of one egg in a large flat plate 
with one-half teaspoonful of ground English mustard, 
and stir with a wooden fork two or three minutes. 
Pour in drop by drop one-third of a cup of the very best 
olive oil; then add, drop by drop the juice of one lemon, 
stirring vigorously all the time. Add salt and tabasco 
sauce to taste. Add one gherkin chopped fine, six 
capers chopped very fine, one tablespoonful of parsley 
chopped fine, and one small shallot, also chopped very 
fine. If you chop parsley in alcohol it will be greener 
and prettier. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

A nice sauce to throw over a steak after it has been 
cooked and seasoned is an equal quantity of tomatoes, 
green peppers and onions, chopped fine and simmered 
in butter. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE FOR COMPOTE OF 
PIGEONS OR STEAK. 

Peel, pick and wash one pint of mushrooms and cut 
into small pieces. Cover with water and boil until ten- 
der. Roll two tablespoonfuls of butter into two table- 
spoonfuls of sifted flour and add one-half cup of hot 
cream or milk. Salt and pepper to taste. When the 
milk thickens add it to the mushrooms. Let it boil up 
and serve. 

MINT SAUCE— SERVE WITH SPRING LAMB. 

Wash carefully one cup of tender green spearmint. 
Chop it fine and crush into one-half cup of brown sugar. 
Let stand fifteen minutes, then add one cup of good 
vinegar and one saltspoonful of salt. Let stand one 
hour before serving. 



172 The Complete Cook Book. 

TOMATO SAUCE— SERVE WITH STEAK OR 
ROAST BEEF. 

One grated cocoanut, one and one-half cups of boiling 
water. Strain through a cheese cloth and set aside un- 
til ready to skim. Squeeze seeds and water out of one 
quart of tomatoes and chop. Mix one tablespoonful of 
chopped green pepper and one-half teaspoonful of green 
ginger; add one tablespoonful of finely chopped celery 
and one tablespoonful of onion juice. Mix very care- 
fully with tomatoes. Over this put a teaspoonful of 
salt and a little red pepper. Pour this into a dish lined 
with lettuce leaves and pour over it the cocoanut cream 
which you skim off the water. Then squeeze a few 
drops of lemon over the top and serve. 

HOT MINT SAUCE. 

Boil one-half pint of vinegar until it is reduced one- 
half, then add one and one-half tablespoonfuls of brown 
sugar, one-half cup of water and a pinch of salt and two 
tablespoonfuls of finely chopped tender young spearmint. 
Bring to boiling point and serve. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

Rub together one tablespoonful of butter with one 
tablespoonful of flour; stir in a saucepan until melted 
and smooth; then add slowly and beat well three- 
fourths pint of boiling milk; then two tablespoonfuls 
of mushroom liquor; salt and pepper to taste; add one 
bay leaf, one branch of celery, a very little thyme and 
one branch of parsley. Cook for fifteen minutes and 
rub through a fine sieve. 

SAUCE FOR ROAST BEEF. 

Brown one tablespoonful of butter and add to it o_ne 
tablespoonful of flour and brown together ; then add one 
and one-half teaspoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce, one 
can of mushrooms; salt and pepper to taste. Cook 
five or ten minutes and serve. 



The Complete Cook Book. 173 

PIQUANT SAUCE. 

Beat to a paste one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
and with a wooden fork mash and mix with it slowly 
the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, a saltspoonful of 
ground English mustard, and one teaspoonf ul of Worces- 
tershire sauce, one-half teaspoonful of onion juice and 
one grated clove of garlic. Stir and mix well, and 
then add two tablespoonf uls of sweet oil and the strained 
juice of only half a lemon. Season to taste with salt and 
pepper, and last of all add one cup of boiling stock. 

SAUCE BERNAISE— SERVE WITH BROILED 
STEAK. 

Yolks of four eggs, beaten very light; add one-quar- 
ter cup of hot water or stock, one-quarter cup of good 
olive oil and stir in a double boiler until it thickens. 
Into another saucepan put two tablespoonfuls of 
lemon juice or vinegar, one slice of garlic, one bay leaf 
and a pinch of red pepper and a little salt. When it 
reaches boiling point stir it into the other mixture until 
it is a thick jelly-like paste, then press it through a 
sieve and serve. 

CAPER SAUCE— SERVED WITH BOILED 

LAMB. 

Into a saucepan put one-half of a chopped onion, two 
whole peppers, one bay leaf, two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, rubbed with one of sifted flour, and three-quarters 
of a pint of white broth. Place on the stove, stirring it 
well and skimming the fat and cook for twenty minutes. 
Then add a pinch of nutmeg and salt to taste. Beat 
the yolks of two eggs with a teaspoonful of lemon juice ; 
pour them slowly into the sauce and remove from the 
fire. Strain and add one teaspoonful of butter and a 
tablespoonful of capers. Use currant jelly with roast 
mutton. 

WHITE SAUCE— TO BE SERVED WITH CRO- 
QUETTES. 

One-half pint of hot milk or cream, or half water and 
half milk. Into a granite saucepan put one tablespoon- 



174 The Complete Cook Book. 

ful of butter and stir until it bubbles, being careful not 
to let it brown. Now add one tablespoonful of corn- 
starcb or one and one-half of flour, and stir rapidly until 
it is mixed ; then add a little of the cream and stir 
briskly as it thickens. When perfectly smooth add the 
rest of the hot cream and cook until very thick. Season 
with salt and white pepper to taste. Just as you take it 
from the fire add a beaten egg and a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley. This is also nice to serve with blue 
fish. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE — SERVED WITH 
TURKEY. 

Wash, clean and pick one quart of cranberries ; put 
them into a granite saucepan with one pint of water and 
let them stew for one hour, or until tender and soft. 
Then mash them through a colander and return to the 
fire. Now warm in the oven one pint of granulated 
sugar or one and one-half cups of brown sugar, and as 
soon as the sauce boils, empty in the sugar and cook 
until it jellies, which will be a very few minutes. 
Then pour into a bowl or dish and set aside until cold. 
Never stir cranberries with anything except a silver 
spoon. 

EGG SAUCE— TO BE SERVED WITH BOILED 
FISH OR POULTRY. 

Melt one-half cup of butter in a saucepan and add to 
it four hard-boiled eggs sliced; stir well, and then add 
the juice of one lemon and one teaspoonful of "Worces- 
tershire sauce. Salt and pepper to taste, and two or 
three pieces of sliced lemon. Sometimes for a change, 
one teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley is very nice 
added. 

SAUCE TO BE SERVED WITH LETTUCE. 

Mash with a fork the yolk of one hard-boiled egg, 
•with a dessertspoonful of ground English mustard and 
a tablespoonful of sweet cream; add drop by drop two 
tablespoonfuls of best olive oil; stir well, and then add 



The Complete Cook Book. 175 

the yolk of one raw egg. Salt to taste one teaspoonful 
of sugar and two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice or vine- 
gar. Chop the yellow and white of another hard-boiled 
egg and add to the sauce. 

STEAK SAUCE. 

Chop finely two green peppers, two fresh tomatoes, 
two onions. Let them simmer in a frying pan in but- 
ter, then throw it over steak, after it has been cooked 
and seasoned. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Cut in small pieces two heads of celery, and cook in 
one pint of water with one teaspoonful of salt in it; rub 
smooth one tablespoonful of butter and one of flour, 
and stir into a pint of milk ; pour this over the celery, let 
come to a boil, and serve with fowl. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Wipe carefully and cut into small pieces one-half 
pint of button mushrooms or one-half pint of mush- 
room flaps. Put into a cup of boiling water with one 
tablespoonful of butter and pepper and salt to taste. 
Let simmer for ten minutes, then thicken with a table- 
spoonful of butter and one of flour stirred together. Add 
the juice of half a lemon. Serve with meats. 

SWEET HERBS. 

The sweet herbs commonly used are sage, mint, sum- 
mer savory, basil, sweet marjoram and thyme. 

CHESTNUT SAUCE FOR TURKEY OR FOWLS. 

Take half a pint of veal stock; half a pound of chest- 
nuts ; peel of half a lemon ; a cupful of cream, a very 
little cayenne and salt. Remove the dark shell of the 
chestnuts, and scald them until the inner skin can be 
taken off. Then put them into the saucepan with the 
stock, the lemon peel cut very thin, some cayenne and 
salt. Let it simmer till the chestnuts are quite soft. 



176 The Complete Cook Book. 

Eub it through a sieve; add the seasoning and en am, 
and let it simmer for a few minutes, taking care it does 
not boil, and stirring constantly. 

SAUCE PIQUANTE. 

Put a large spoonful of sweet butter in a stewpan, 
slice into it two onions, two carrots, a little thyme, two 
cloves, two eschalots and a bunch of parsley; add, if 
liked, a clove of garlic. Let them cook until the carrots 
are soft, then shake in a little flour, let it cook five min- 
utes more, and add a cup of beef or veal stock, and half 
a cup of strong vinegar ; skim and strain through a 
sieve. Add salt and pepper when boiling. This is nice 
on cold meat. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Peel and wash the mushrooms, cut them in small 
pieces, and put them in ^a saucepan ; cover them with 
water, and let them boil soft ; then stir in butter mixed 
in flour, until it is thick enough to form a nice sauce; 
add pepper and salt. 

LEMON SAUCE FOR FISH. 

To half a pint of butter sauce, add the juice of a 
lemon and another lemon sliced ; take out the seeds and 
let all boil together. This is good with broiled Span- 
ish mackerel or pompano, also with broiled fish. 

TO MAKE FRENCH MUSTARD. 

Put on a plate an ounce of the best mustard, add to 
it salt, a clove of garlic or a few tarragon leaves. 
Mince the garlic, stir it in, and pour on vinegar till it 
is of the proper thickness for use. 

SAUCE PIQUANTE. 

Take one tablespoonful of chopped parsley and rub 
it to paste, then add gradually, rubbing all the while, 
the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs; add a quarter of a 
teaspoonful of dry mustard, and a teaspoonful of 



The Complete Cook Book. 177 

"Worcestershire sauce, mix until smooth, and add a 
tablespoonful of stock or warm water, stir continually 
until it boils, add a half-teaspoonful of salt, a dash of 
pepper, and it is ready to use. 

FRESH MUSHROOM SAUCE FOR STEAK. 

Wash and peel one pint of fresh mushrooms, put 
them in a porcelain lined or granite saucepan with a 
tablespoonful of butter; cook fifteen minutes, stirring 
constantly, and chopping with a silver spoon; then 
sprinkle over an even tablespoonful of sifted flour, mix, 
add two tablespoonfuls of stock or cream, and a pala- 
table seasoning of salt and pepper ; pour over and around 
the steak. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

One quart of milk, four tablespoonfuls of butter or a 
half -cup of cream, four tablespoonfuls of flour, a small 
bit of onion, two sprigs of parsley, salt and pepper. 
Put milk, onion and parsley into a double boiler, mix 
the butter and flour together until very light. When 
the milk boils stir four tablespoonfuls of the milk with 
butter and flour, then put whole into rest of the boiling 
milk; cook eight minutes; strain and serve. This is 
excellent with fish, fine for all kinds of meat toasts and 
many vegetables. Take this "white sauce" and add 
( three finely chopped mushrooms, the juice of half a 
lemon and you have a good mushroom sauce for veal 
cutlets, chicken patties, and sweetbread. 

ONION SAUCE. 

Onion sauce is fine for cold or hot boiled meat, mut- 
ton, veal and poultry. Cream a heaping tablespoon- 
ful of flour and a half-cup of butter, then add gradually 
two cups of boiling milk, stir well, then add four ten- 
der boiled onions that have been well mashed, a sprig 
of parsley, finely chopped, salt and white pepper. Strain 
and serve. 



178 The Complete Cook Book. 

WINE SAUCE. 

Wine sauce for the spring duck. Half a glass of cur- 
rant jelly, half a glass of good port wine, half of a lemon 
and half a glass of water, one tablespoonful of butter, 
teaspoonful of salt, a good pinch of cayenne three 
cloves. Simmer all together a few minutes. Add the 
wine after it is cooked and strained. A little of the 
gravy from the game can be added as an improvement. 

CHICKEN DIPLOMATE. 

Cut the breast from a roasted chicken, cut in small 
squares; add to this one-third of its bulk in mushrooms, 
and in truffles, chopped fine; make all into a farcie as 
for croquettes. Prepare the legs as ballotine, i.e., re- 
move the bone of the second joint and replace with a 
quenelle forcemeat. Now, having kept the bones 
whole, reconstruct the chicken by applying the farcie to 
the breast and using the ballotine to form the legs; 
spread bread crumbs all over; put in oven to get hot 
and a light brown color. Serve with peas, flageolets 
or a jardiniere. 

SALAD MAYONNAISE. 

Yolk of one egg, one scant teaspoonful of ground 
mustard, one-half taspoonful of salt, a few shakes of 
tabasco sauce, one cupful of best olivo oil, juice of one 
lemon. Mix the egg, mustard, salt and pepper well in 
a large soup plate with a wooden fork; then pour in 
the oil in a very fine stream, or drop by drop, alternat- 
ing it with the lemon juice, a little of each at a time. 
Make long strokes with the fork, and in hot weather, 
set your plate on a block of ice while stirring. 

A NICE SAUCE TO BE SERVED WITH FROG 

LEGS. 

Chop one teaspoonful of chives very fine, with one 
sprig of parsley, three sour vinegar pickles, one tea- 
spoonful of onion juice and five or six capers; soak a 
piece of bread the size of a walnut; mix all together and 



The Complete Cook Book. 179 

pound to a paste, and then rub it through a sieve, after 
which add one-half pint of olive oil and three table- 
spoonfuls of lemon juice or good vinegar. Season with 
salt and pepper to taste, and if not green enough, add 
a few drops of pistache coloring or spinach green. 

VINAIGRETTE SAUCE. 

Chopped parsley one tablespoonful, chopped chives 
two teaspoonfuls, one shallot chopped very fine, one- 
quarter cup of vinegar; mix, and add one-quarter cup 
of olive oil. Season to taste with salt and tabasco 
sauce. 

APPLE SAUCE FOR ROAST PIG. 

Core, peel and quarter four tart apples, add one-half 
glassful of water, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, and 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, cover and set over the fire. 
Cook until tender, which will take about twenty min- 
utes. Mash them smooth, strain through a colander 
and add a very little cinnamon, a squeeze of lemon and 
a small lump of butter. 

STEWED APPLE SAUCE. 

Pare, core, and quarter six or eight tart apples. 
Make a syrup with one cup of sugar, two-thirds of a 
cup of water, and a little lemon peel. When boiling, 
add the apples, and cook carefully two or three min- 
utes, till they are just tender, but not broken. Remove 
them carefully, boil the syrup down a little, and strain 
it over the apples. Cook them in granite or porcelain 
pans, and use a wooden spoon. 

COMPOTE OF APPLES. 

Make a syrup with one cup of sugar, one cup of 
water, and a square-inch of stick cinnamon. Boil 
slowly for ten minutes, skimming well. Core and pare 
eight or ten tart apples ; cook till nearly done in the 
syrup. Drain, and cook them a few minutes in the 
oven. Boil the syrup^tiJlalmostJike a jelly. Arrange 



i8o The Complete Cook Book. 

the apples on a dish for serving. Fill the core cavities 
with jelly or marmalade. Pour the syrup over them. 
Put whipped cream around the base, and garnish the 
cream with jelly. 

BAKED APPLES. 

Core and pare sour apples. Put them in a shallow 
earthen dish, fill the cavities with sugar, mixed with 
grated lemon rind ; add water to cover the bottom of 
the dish. Bake in a very quick oven till soft, basting 
often with the syrup. 

FRIED APPLES FOR FRIED PORK. 

Wash large apples without peeling ; slice them and 
fry them in pork fat that is very hot and sprinkle a 
little brown sugar over them. 

GREEN PEA SAUCE. 

Cook for ten minutes in a double boiler one cupful of 
milk, one-half teaspoonful of chopped onion and one 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley ; melt one teaspoonful of 
butter, add a tablespoonful of flour and the hot milk a 
little at a time. Strain back into the double boiler; 
add one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of white 
pepper and one cupful of cold cooked peas. Just before 
serving add to the sauce the beaten yolk of an egg and 
cook for one minute. 

CHICKEN SAUCE. 

Cut up two tender chickens ; put three ounces of butter 
in a stewpan, and toss your chickens in it, sprinkle 
with flour, and moistened with hot white stock, or 
water if you have none. Season with salt, white pep- 
per, mushrooms, twelve tiny pickling onions, and a 
bouquet of herbs. Let it simmer for one hour and a 
half. Take the stewpan off the firo, take out the bou- 
quet, and crush the onions to atoms; beat up two yolks 
of eggs with two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice; mix it 
up with the gravy, and stir the whole together. Before- 
hand take a good-sliced baker's loaf, cut off the top 



The Complete Cook Book. i8i 

carefully, remove the crumb; then in the cavity you 
place the chicken, gravy and all. Put back the top 
you had cut off to empty the loaf of its crumb, and let 
the whole become perfectly cold before you either eat or 
pack it in the hamper, so that the crust may be very 
crisp. 

THICK CREAM SAUCE FOR CROQUETTES 
AND PATTIES. 

One pint hot cream, two even tablespoonfuls butter, 
four heaping tablespoonfuls flour, or two heaping table- 
spoonfuls cornstarch, one-half teaspoonful salt, one- 
half saltspoonful white pepper, one-half teaspoonful 
celery salt, a few grains of cayenne. Scald the cream. 
Melt the lautter in a granite saucepan. When bub- 
bling, add the dry cornstarch. Stir till well mixed. 
Add one-third of the cream, and stir as it boils and 
thickens. Add more cream, and boil again. When 
perfectly smooth, add the remainder of the cream. 
The sauce should be very thick, almost like a drop bat- 
ter. Add the seasoning, and mix it while hot with the 
meat or fish. For croquettes, one beaten egg may be 
added just as the sauce is taken from the fire; but the 
croquettes are whiter and more creamy without the 
egg. Form patties, warm the meat or fish in the 
sauce, and use the egg or not as you please. 

BREAD SAUCE— FOR GAME. 

One pint milk, one-third cup fine crumbs, two table- 
spoonfuls chopped onion, one tablespoonful butter, one- 
half teaspoonful salt, one-half saltspoonful pepper, two- 
thirds cups coarse bread crumbs, one tablespoonful 
butter. Boil the fine bread crumbs and onion in the milk 
fifteen minutes, and add the butter, salt and pepper. 
Fry the coarse bread crumbs in another tablespoonful of 
butter till brown. Pour the sauce around the birds, 
and sprinkle the brown crumbs over the whole. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL SAUCE. 

Add to one-half cupful of butter the juice of half a 
lemon, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful 



1 82 The Complete Cook Book. 

of minced onion, half saltspoonful of salt and a dash of 
cayenne. Set on the stove and beat while simmering. 
Pour over the salsify. 

VINAIGEETTE SAUCE. 

Chop up together very fine one shallot, two branches 
of parsley, the same of chervil and chives, and when 
very fine place them in a sauce bowl with a tablespoon- 
ful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and three table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. Stir all well together; then add 
four tablespoonfuls of good oil, mix well again, and 
serve. 

ORIGINAL HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

Melt sufficient good fresh butter in a saucepan over 
a very gentle fire, mix with it a good handful of salt, 
more or less according to quantity of butter; beat 
lightly with a fork, and serve at once in sauce bowl. 
This is good with any kind of boiled fish. A more 
recherche recipe is as follows: Place in a basin a quar- 
ter of a pound of fresh butter, the yolks of three fresh 
eggs, salt to taste, and a tablespoonful of vinegar, in 
which a blade of mace has been steeped for four hours. 
Place the bowl in a saucepan of boiling water, or use 
a double boiler if one is at hand, taking care that the 
water does not get into the sauce. Let it get quite hot, 
without actually boiling, and stir gently till it thickens, 
and serve at once, 

GARNISHES. 

Parsley is most universally used to garnish all kinds 
of cold meats, boiled poultry, broiled steak and fish of 
many kinds. Horse radish is much liked on roast beef; 
slices of lemon are liked by many on broiled fish or 
boiled calf's head, etc. Mint is liked by many on roast 
lamb, and currant jelly is generally liked on game, 
ducks, etc. 

SEASONING FOR SAUSAGE MEAT. 

Chop up and run your sausage meat through the cut- 
ter, and to every pound of the ground meat, allow a 



The Complete Cook Book. 183 

tablespoonful of salt, a teaspuonful of mixed black and 
red pepper, a quarter of a teaspoonful of saltpeter, and 
a half-cup of sage and sweet marjoram. If you prefer 
it you may substitute for the sage some thyme and 
summer savory. 

TO PREPARE "BUERRE NOIR." 

Take two good tablespoonfuls of butter, one of vine- 
gar, one of finely chopped parsley, and one teaspoonful 
of lemon juice, one-half teaspoonful of salt, a fourth of 
a teaspoonful of white pepper and a very little onion 
juice. Put butter in frying pan. When it bubbles, 
add the parsley and stir well ; then add the other in- 
gredients. Let it boil up, then spread butter on very 
thin slices of sandwich bread. Take crisp lettuce 
leaves; dip well in the "Buerre Noir" and place be- 
tween slices. 

A GOOD BOILED DRESSING. 

Here is the recipe for a good boiled dressing. Yolks 
of three eggs beaten, one teaspoonful of mustard, two 
teaspoonfuls of salt, one-quarter saltspoonful of salt, 
one-quarter saltspoonful of cayenne, two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter or oil, 
one cup cream or milk, one-half cup hot vinegar, whites 
of three eggs beaten stiff. Cook in the double boiler 
until it thickens like soft custard. Stir well. This 
will keep in a cool place two weeks, and is excellent for 
lettuce, string beans, cauliflower, etc. 



184 The Complete Cook Book. 



EGGS. 



EGGS FOR EASTER DAY. 

The Russian boasts his mutton, 

The German praises veal, 
Roast beef will make in England 

A most delicious meal; 
While we've a predilection 

For pork, the nations say, 
But every land united 

Eats eggs on Easter Day. 

There's turkey for Thanksgiving, 

And goose at Christmas time, 
While pigeon pie for New Year's 

We all acknowledge prime ; 
Without its sweet spring chicken 

Our Fourth would fade away. 
And fish may suit Good Friday, 

But eggs for Easter Day. 

EGGS. 

Eggs must be kept in a cool, dark place and handled 
carefully. They are very nutritious and wholesome. 
Never use eggs that you have reason to believe are 
stale or old. In choosing eggs hold each one up to the 
light; if transparent, or the yolk is distinct, it is good; 
if it has a clouded appearance it is stale. 

EGGS IN A NEST. 

Boil six eggs twenty minutes. Remove the shells. 
Separate the yolks without breaking; or rub them to a 
smooth paste with a little olive oil to moisten, »nd 



The Complete Cook Book. 185 

shape them into small balls. Cut the whites in thin 
narrow slices, and mix with them an equal quantity of 
fine shredded chicken, ham or salmon, and a table- 
spoonful of fine sprigs of parsley. Pile this mixture, 
which should be light and feathery, on a platter in a 
circular or oval ring, and put the mixture in the cen- 
ter. Set the platter in a steamer, to settle the mixture. 
Make a pint of thick white sauce ; pour portion of it 
round the edge of the dish to come halfway up the 
nest, and serve the remainder in a sauce boat. 

EGG VERMICELLI. 

Boil three eggs twenty minutes. Separate the yolks 
and chop the whites fine. Toast four slices of bread ; 
cut half into small squares and half into points or tri- 
angles. Make one cup of thin white sauce with one cup 
of cream or milk, one teaspoonf ul of butter, one heap- 
ing teaspoonful of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, and 
half a saltspoonf ul of pepper. Stir the whites into the 
sauce, and when hot pour it over the squares of toast. 
Rub the yolks through a fine strainer over the whole, 
and garnish with a border of toast points, and a bit of 
parsley in the center. Or cut the bread into rounds 
before toasting. Pour the white sauce on the hot plat- 
ter, and put the rounds of toast on the sauce some dis- 
tance apart. Put a little of the chopped white on each 
slice, pile it high on the edge, rub the yolks through a 
fine strainer over the center, and lay small sprigs of 
fine parsley between the toast, 

SHIRRED EGGS. 

To shirr an egg, separate the white from the yolk, 
add a pinch of salt to the white and beat stiff, then pour 
it on a saucer, piling it high around the edges, then 
put the yolk in the center. Put into the oven ; bake 
four minutes until a delicate brown. Before serving, 
season with salt and pepper and a teaspoonful of cream 
on the yolk only. Prepare a dish for every person. It 
is a very dainty way to serve an egg, and very effec- 
tive. 



1 86 The Complete Cook Book. 

EGGS AU SOLEIL. 

Put two tablespoonf uls of lard in a frying pan on the 
hot stove, break in twelve fresh eggs, dropping them in 
carefully, one by one; let them cook for two minutes, 
then with a skimmer take each one up separately and 
lay it carefully on a dry cloth. Have some fritter bat- 
ter ready, cut a piece of half -cooked bacon into small, 
square pieces of about an inch, and add them to the bat- 
ter, then dip in the eggs, one after the other, taking up 
with each one a piece of the bacon, and with the fingers 
drop them into very hot grease, and cook to a good 
golden color for two minutes. Lift them up with the 
skimmer, lay them on a dry cloth to drain ; sprinkle 
over half a pinch of salt, dress on a hot dish with a 
folded nakpin and serve. 

OEUFS A LA CHEISTOHPE COLOMB. 

First, make small toasts about two and one-half 
inches in diameter, and one inch thick, fry them in 
butter, lay over a coat of "pate de foie gras" about 
one-quarter inch thick, taking care to leave a hole in the 
middle. Second, dispose them on a warm dish and 
place upright on each toast in the hole menaged in the 
"pate de foie gras" an egg poached and carefully 
shelled. Third, let melt in a saucpean one-quarter 
pound of "jelly of meat" and one-quarter fresh butter, 
mix well the whole; don't allow to boil and pour over 
the eggs. 

BAKED EGGS. 

To make a very pretty dish of the baked eggs, 
slightly salt the whites, beat to a stiff froth and spread 
upon a well-buttered platter. Make little cavities here 
and there upon the surface and into them drop the 
yolks. Bake in a very moderate oven until the whites 
are a light brown. 

VERMICELLI EGGS. 

Vermicelli eggs make a most attractive dish, are 
easily prepared and very delicious. Boil four eggs 
twenty minutes; when cold, separate the yolks from 



The Complete Cook Book. 187 

the whites, and mince whites fine. Cut six rounds of 
bread and toast in the oven until a delicate brown, not 
too hard. Make a cream sauce of one tablespoonful 
of butter, one heaping tablespoonful of flour, one pint of 
milk, one teaspoonful of salt, pinch of pepper. Add the 
minced whites to the sauce and pour boiling hot over 
the toast. Eub the yolks though a fine sieve over all. 

EGGS, AU GRATIN, FOR LENT. 

Boil the eggs hard, peel and cut them in slices, and 
lay them in a deep dish in close circular rows. Make 
a sauce of a tablespoonful of butter, the yolks of four 
eggs, a little grated cheese and half a cup of sweet milk. 
Stir this over the fire until it thickens, pour it over the 
eggs, strew some bread crumbs on the top, and bake for 
about ten minutes; then send to the table hot. 

OMELETS. 

There are only a chosen few who make a good plain 
omelet. First of all, promptitude and decision are 
absolutely necessary qualifications. Next you should 
have a thick-bottom sheet-iron pan that is perfectly 
smooth, and keep it for omelets only. It should never 
be washed, but cleaned either by scrubbing it with salt 
or by putting fat in it and when it becomes boiling hot 
pour off the fat and rub the pan with soft paper until 
bright. Never turn an omelet, but push it and roll it 
with either a skimmer spoon that has a flat blade with 
holes, or with a limber, broad-bladed knife. Wash the 
butter in which they are cooked, as any salt left in it 
will spoil your omelet. An omelet when done should 
be a fawn color or simply a golden brown, never 
burned. Add salt and pepper at the last moment, as 
salt toughens the eggs if put in too soon. Have the 
butter heated to a gentle heat. Fierce heat scorches 
the eggs. 

PLAIN OMELET. 

Break into a bowl four eggs, and with a fork beat 
until the whites and yellows are thoroughly mixed, or 



1 88 The Complete Cook Book. 

give a dozen vigorous strokes. Add one tablespoonful 
of boiling water to each egg and beat for a moment un- 
til mixed, and last of all add a lump of butter the size 
of a marble. Place in your omelet pan a tablespoonful 
of clarified butter, and when just hot enough to color 
the eggs, pour in your omelet, shake it over the fire, 
raise it as it cooks with your skimmer spoon, and as 
the omelet sets dust it quickly with salt and pepper, 
gently roll it in an oblong shape, slide it into a hot 
dish, pour a teaspoonful of melted butter over it and 
serve immediately. A little practice will make you 
perfect. This is the basis of all omelets. Vary them 
by substituting different seasonings. Parsley, grated 
bam, chopped onion cooked a little, grated cheese, 
asparagus tips, minced green peppers cooked slightly, 
mushrooms, chicken livers, lobster, shrimp, tongue, 
sardines, or any seasoning that may suit the individual 
taste. 

OMELET SOUFFLE. 

Six eggs, four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, 
grated rind of one-half lemon or any essence (rum if 
liked). Cream the yolks and sugar until very light and 
frothy, and add the flavoring. Whip the whites until 
stiff and dry, pour lightly the yolk mixture over 
them, stirring it very gently. Put it by tablespoonfuls 
into a well-buttered pan and place the pan over a slow 
fire just to set the bottom ; add a dust of salt and then 
put it in the oven to cook until it is swollen and a straw 
comes out clean. Shake it out into a hot dish, fold 
quickly, dust it with powdered sugar and serve it at 
once, as it soon falls. If jam, jelly, apple sauce or pre- 
serves are used, warm them and slip them between the 
omelet just as you fold it. 

GRANDMOTHER'S BAKED OMELET. 

Separate four eggs, beat the yolks well, stir into 
them a large tablespoonful of flour and add one cup of 
sweet milk very gradually. Beat the whites until stiff 
and dry, and fold them lightly into the yolks. Four 



The Complete Cook Book. 189 

into a buttered pudding dish, dust with salt and set in 
the oven. When it begins to brown and a straw comes 
out clean, remove and serve at once. 

BOILED EGGS. 

Wash the eggs clean. Put a saucepan of water on 
the stove and let it boil vigorously, then put in your 
eggs and remove the saucepan at once to the back of 
the range where it cannot boil. Allow it to remain 
covered from five to ten minutes. Experience will 
teach you the exact time to keep eggs in the water to 
suit individual tastes. Simmer gently twenty minutes 
if you wish eggs hard boiled. 

EGG CHOPS. 

Another delicious luncheon dish to be served as a 
course is egg chops. To make them boil five eggs 
hard, remove the shells, rub the yolks through a sieve, 
and chop the whites, not making them too fine. Put 
in a double boiler over the fire one cup of milk. Rub 
together one tablespoonful of butter with two of fiour, 
add a beaten egg, and mix a little of the warm milk 
with this mixture before stirring it into the boiling 
milk, season with salt and pepper, and stir until it is a 
thick, smooth mixture. Take from the fire, and when 
the mixture is almost cool, stir in the prepared yolks 
and whites, and a very little onion juice if the flavor is 
liked. When cold enough to handle, mould in the 
shape of chops, using a tin mould, or they may be 
formed with the hands. Eoll the chops in a beaten egg 
and then in bread crumbs, and fry them a delicate 
brown. Stick a sprig of parsley in the small end of 
the chop, and arrange them in a row down the center 
of a platter and turn Bechamel sauce around, but not 
over them ; or French peas may be arranged upon the 
platter with the chops, and the sauce served with them 
from a separate djsh. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

Take six hard-boiled eggs. Hull them and slice a 
piece off of each end to make them stand well. Cut in 
half and remove their yolks, rub them to a paste with 



190 The Complete Cook Book. 

two tablespoonfuls of melted butter or olive oil. Sea- 
SOD to taste with finely chopped green onion, minced 
parsley, mustard, lemon, a little chopped cucumber 
pickle and half the quantity of grated ham, tongue or 
minced chicken, and a palatable seasoning of salt and 
pepper. Now fill the empty whites with this mixture. 
Next take six small red tomatoes, empty out their seeds 
and fill them with the remaining egg mixture. 
Sprinkle buttered crumbs over the whole and bake until 
the crumbs are a delicate brown. Arrange on a hot 
platter with white sauce poured around them, and gar- 
nish with watercress or parsley. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Have a deep skillet nearly full of boiling salted water; 
add one tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon juice. 
When the water is boiling break your eggs one by one 
and drop each one right on the spot where the water 
bubbles. Dip the water over them with a spoon, and 
when the white is firm lift them up with a skimmer, 
drain and lay on round pieces of toast. Season with 
bits of butter, ilt and pepper. Garnish with parsley. 

GRANDFATHER'S SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Beat four eggs, not lightly, but until well mixed, 
with a fork. Piace in a skillet or chafing dish one-half 
cup of new milk and one tablespoonful of butter, and 
when it reaches boiling point pour in the eggs. Cook 
quickly, stirring all the time, until the egg is firm but 
soft and no liquid remains. Dust with salt and pepper 
and serve immediately. 

SHIRRED EGGS. 

Butter individual stone dishes holding one or two 
eggs each Bre^ik an egg into each one. Dust with 
salt and pepper and bake in a moderate oven until the 
white is set. Add a little butter and garnish with thin 
strips of breakfast bacon. 



The Complete Cook Book. 191 

STUFFED EGGS AND ANCHOVIES. 

Stuff your eggs according to the recipe given, put 
the halves nicely together, and lay anchovies around 
them. Pour white sauce over them and garnish the 
plates with French peas. These make a very pretty 
course for a luncheon. 

ORANGE OMELET. 

Beat three eggs. Add three tablespoonfuls of orange 
juice and two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Pour 
into a buttered frying pan. Cook slowly until a crust 
is formed. Fold in half. Turn the omelet on to a hot 
platter. Sprinkle thickly with powdered sugar. Heat 
a poker till red hot; score over the sugar. Serve very 
hot. 

EGG PIES. 

Grease a pie dish, then break into it about half as 
rriany eggs as it will contain. They should be dropped 
in carefully, so as not to break with yolks. Then for 
each egg add a teaspoonful of cream, and one tea- 
spooiiful of run butter. Season with white pepper, salt 
and chopped parsley, also garlic, if it be liked. Cover 
the pie dish with a top crust, cut slits across it and 
bake at once in a sharp oven. Directly the pastry is 
baked a delicate brown, the eggs will be sufficiently 
cooked, for they should not be hard. 



192 The Complete Cook Book. 



BREAD, ROLLS, ETC. 



HOW TO CHOOSE THE FLOUR. 

A GOOD flour should be dry, heavy and very soft to 
the touch ; it should have a clear white color (a little 
yellowish sometimes), be adhesive to the fingers (when 
they are dry); when pressed between the hands it 
should form a kind of ball, which will not scatter im- 
mediately. 

SALT RISING YEAST. 

Take a pint of new milk, warm from the cow if pos- 
sible. Put in a teaspoonful of salt, and thicken it with 
flour to the consistency of batter cakes. Set this in a 
warm place to rise, and make your biscuit or bread up 
with it, and some new milk, or milk and water warmed 
together. 

SALT, OR MILE, RISING FOR BREAD, AND 
HOW TO BAKE IT. 

Take a pint of new milk, stir in nearly a pint of boil- 
ing water, then salt it with a teaspoonful of fine salt; 
thicken this with flour enough to make a thick batter. 
Set it in a warm place to rise, and it is ready to mix 
into bread. Mix the yeast in a soft dough with fine 
flour, a little lard, and a cup of water ; mould it, and 
set it to rise. When well risen, bake it a nice brown. 
Wrap it in a damp cloth for a few minutes, and let it 
cool slowly before it is cut. This is a good bread for a 
delicate stomach, which is sometimes painfully affected 
by hop-yeast bread. 



The Complete Cook Book. 193 

BOILED POTATO YEAST. 

Three large, old potatoes, pared, soaked, and boiled 
until broken in small pieces ; half a cup of loose hops 
boiled in one quart of water. Drain and mash the pote- 
toes; add the hop water and enough more hot water to 
make two quarts. Strain, rubbing all the potato 
through, and put it on to boil. When boiling, add 
three-fourths of a cup of flour, which has been wet to a 
smooth paste in cold water, and three-quarters of a cup 
of sugar. Boil five minutes, stirring well ; let it cool ; 
add three-fourths of a cup of yeast ; and, when well 
risen, add one-fourth of a cup of salt. Keep in a cov- 
ered stone jar in a cool cellar. Bread made with this 
yeast will not sour even in the hottest weather. 

BREAD. 

Bread, to be wholesome and palatable, should be 
light and porous. Good bread demands good flour, 
which should be smooth and white, with a yellow cast, 
and the dough or paste made with it should be elastic 
and tough. Old Process or Haxall flour makes a sweet, 
nutritious bread. Good bread is difficult to make, and 
is the highest accomplishment in culinary science. 

MOTHER'S YEAST. 

The most essential thing to start with is good yeast. 
Old potatoes are best, and they as well as the hops must 
be boiled in a granite or porcelain saucepan, and the 
water must be boiling. Use a wooden spoon. Take 
six large potatoes, pare them and put them in plenty of 
water. Then take three or four tablespoonfuls of hops, 
tie them in a muslin bag and put these in water with 
the potjatoes. Boil slowly so as to get the good of the 
hops. After they have boiled soft, put them through a 
strainer, add cne-half teacup of sugar and one-quarter 
teacup of salt ; put in a scrupulously clean stone jar, 
and if the mixture doesn't make two quarts, add enough 
boiling water to make it measure two quarts. Let it 
cool until blood warm ; add a teacupful of good yeast, 01 
a cake of compressed yeast dissolved in warm watery 



194 The Complete Cook Book. 

aet it near the fire or in a warm place, covering with a 
towel only until it bubbles up, then cover and stand in 
a cool place. Reserve a portion for the next rising in a 
small jar by itself, thus avoiding bought yeast. 
Always shake or stir well before using. 

DOUGH. 

The excellency of the bread depends on the thorough- 
ness of the kneading. When you first begin the dough 
will be soft and sticky, but the longer you knead the 
less sticky it becomes. Pound the dough with a rolling 
pin, and cut it freely with a silver knife. Thirty min- 
utes is the allotted time for this portion of the work if 
perfect results are to be obtained. 

MOTHER'S BREAD. 

Four quarts of flour, one-quarter pint of lukewarm 
potato water or one potato boiled down in water, one- 
half pint of yeast. If milk be used instead of water, it 
should be scalded. Make a hole in middle of flour and 
mix up the yeast and water. Then cover with several 
thicknesses of cloth and a tightly fitting tin cover and 
set sponge in a warm place over night. Next morning 
add one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of melted 
lard and a piece of butter the size of an English walnut 
(melted). Mix up with blood- warm water sufficient to 
make a soft dough — do not have it too stiff. Knead 
well thirty minutes and allow it to rise until quite 
light. Then put it ir pans, brush it over with melted 
butter and let it rise again until it is ready to bake. 
Bake in a hot oven. Rolls require longer to rise and 
a hotter oven than a loaf. An authority, well-known, 
says the oven must be hot enough to brown a teaspoon- 
ful of flour in one minute for rolls and five minutes for 
a loaf. The first twenty minutes the heat should in- 
crease, remain steady during the next and decrease 
toward the last. Brush your rolls with hot mjl'c l^fore 
baking and with melted butter while still hot, Dhj not 
cover the loaves, but wrap them while hot Li jeveral 
thicknesses of table linen or bread cloth. 



The Complete Cook Book. 195 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Oae-half cup of white corn meal (scalded), one cup 
of sour milk, one cup of New Orleans molasses, one 
quart of brown flour, one teaspoonful of salt and one 
teaspoonf ul of soda (scalded). Bake in large tins in a 
slow oven two hours. 

COMPRESSED YEAST BREAD. 

When it is possible to obtain fresh compressed yeast, 
also called German yeast, an excellent bread can be 
made in about two hours and a half ; the rapidity of the 
leavening or "raising" the dough is advantageous, 
because less of the nutritive elements of the flour are 
lost than by following the long process. For two 
loaves of bread, use three pounds of flour, about a quart 
of water, two teaspoonfuls of salt, and an ounce of fresh 
compressed yeast ; dissolve the yeast in a pint of luke- 
warm water; stir into it sufficient flour to make a thick 
batter ; cover the bowl containing the batter or sponge 
with a folded towel, and set it in a warm place to rise ; 
if properly covered and heated, it will rise to a light 
foam in half an hour ; then stir into it the salt dissolved 
in a little warm water, add the rest of the flour, and 
sufficient lukewarm water to make a dough stiff 
enough to knead ; knead it five minutes, divide it into 
two loaves, put them in floured baking pans, cover 
them with a folded towel, and set them in a warm 
place to rise twice their height; then bake them as 
directed in the preceding recipe. In raising the sponge, 
be sure that the heat is not sufficient to "scald" or 
harden it, as that will prevent fermentation ; therefore 
do not place it where the hand cannot be held with 
comfort ; keep it covered from draughts. If when it is 
light it has become at all soured, as it sometimes will 
in Slimmer, stir into it, before adding the balance of 
the flour, a saltspoonful of baking soda dissolved in a 
very little water. The dough made for home-made 
bread can be baked as raised biscuit by kneading in 
with it a little sugar and melted butter. To test the 
heat of the oven, follow the method of Jules Gouffe, 
the celebrated chef of the Paris Jockey Club: The 



196 The Complete Cook Book. 

"moderate oven" temperature is that degree of heat 
which will turn ordinary writing paper dark yellow or 
buff, that is, the color of kindling wood ; put a sheet of 
paper in the oven, and close the door; if the paper 
blazes, the oven is too hot; arrange the dampers to 
lower the heat for ten minutes, then again test it with 
more paper; it may be necessary to try the teaaperature 
several times, but the time thus used is well spent. 

LIGHT BEEAD— INVARIABLY GOOD. 

Take nirle pint cups of flour, one pint cup of good 
yeast made from hops, two pint cups of warm water 
and a pint cupful of warm milk. Make into a sponge, 
let this rise; when risen, knead it with all your 
strength, work more flour into it, and let it rise again. 
When it is light, you must bake it in loaves. 

MILK BREAD— WITH SPONGE. 

Pour one pint of scalded milk on one tablespoonful 
each of butter and sugar, and one teaspoonful of salt; 
when lukewarm, add half a cup of yeast if mixed 
in the morning or one-quarter of a cup mixed at 
night. Stir in three cups of flour, and beat well. 
Let it rise over night, or, if mixed in the morning, 
about three hours. Then add from two to three cups of 
flour, or enough to knead it, and knead half an hour. 
Let it rise in the bowl, and again after being shaped 
into loaves or rolls, and bake as usual. Whole wheat 
or rye bread or gems can be made from this sponge the 
same as in the preceding rule. 

HOW TO PREPARE THE DOUGH FOR 
FRENCH BREAD. 

Sift on a table four pounds of the best flour procur- 
able, transfer two pounds of it into a bowl of the capac- 
ity to hold ten quarts. Make a hollow space in the cen- 
ter of the flour in the bowl, then put in it one ounce of 
compressed yeast, pour in one pint of lukewarm water, 
then with the hand thoroughly dissolve the yeast in the 
water for three minutes thereafter, then gradually incor- 



The Complete Cook Book. 197 

porate the flour for five minutes, then sharply knead the 
■whole for five minutes. Fully cover the bowl with a 
napkin, lay the bowl in a warm place of about eighty 
degrees temperature, to let the sponge rise for two hours. 
During that length of time the sponge will double, after 
about one hour and a half (after being put away) then 
fall, and again rise double. Have in a vessel one pint 
of lukew '.rm water, or the same quantity of lukewarm 
milk, add one and a half ounces of salt, thoroughly dis- 
solve for one minute, then pour it into the bowl with 
the sponge, and thoroughly knead the whole well to- 
gether for five minutes. Now gradually add the two 
remaining pounds of flour, constantly kneading mean- 
while, which ought to take about fifteen minutes, to have 
it smooth and consistent. Lift up the dough with the 
hands and sharply knock it against the bottom of the 
bowl for at least six or seven different times, so as to 
have it of a firm consistency ; then cover the bowl with 
a napkin, place it in a warm place, the same tempera- 
ture as before, to rise for two hours again ; by this time 
the dough should be raised double. Remove the nap- 
kin and transfer the dough on a lightly floured table. 
Cut out a two-pound piece, and with the hands roll and 
press it into a ball shape for three minutes, then lay it 
aside. Cut out another of the same weight, roll and 
press it in the same way as the first. Cut the remain- 
ing dough into twelve equal pieces, and roll them also 
into ball shapes, and let rest for three minutes. 

FRENCH BREAD. 

One-quarter cup of yeast, one egg, two tablespoonfula 
of melted butter, one-half pint sweet milk, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one quart flour; stir all this together 
very thoroughly, and set to rise; when it is light make 
into a loaf, let rise again and bake. Just before plac- 
ing in oven cut gashes across the top. 

CORN BATTER BREAD. 

Take six spoonfuls of flour, and six of corn meal; 
add a little salt, sift them together; make a batter with 
four eggs, and a cup of milk; stir in the flour and meal. 



1 98 The Complete Cook Book. 

make it a soft batter, and bake in small tins for break- 
fast. Some use yeast powder or soda with this batter, 
but that is a matter of taste. If yeast powder is used, 
sift it in the flour; if soda is used put it in the milk. 

LIGHT CORN" BREAD. 

Pour one quart of boiled milk over one pint of corn 
meal. Add a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, half -teaspoonful of soda, three well- 
beaten eggs, four tablespoonfuls of flour, a little butter. 

MISSISSIPPI CORN BREAD. 

One quart of buttermilk, two eggs, three spoonfuls 
of butter, and a teaspoonful of saleratus; stir in meal, 
to the milk, until it is as thick as buckwheat batter. 
Bake in squares about one inch thick. It will require 
half an hour in a hot oven. If it is not nice, it will be 
because you have put in too much meal, and made the 
batter too thick. But try again, and you will succeed. 

VIRGINIA ROLLS. 

One tablespoonf ul of good yeast, one egg, one large 
spoonful of butter, one pound or pint of flour, a little 
salt and enough milk to form into a stiff batter. Set 
it to rise in a warmed pan until it is light; sift a cup of 
flour into the bread tray, and pour the light batter in; 
work it well and keep the dough very soft, which is 
the most certain way to have light rolls or bread. Now, 
that it is well worked, moist and soft, set the dough to 
rise; when light, make into rolls, and lay them on a 
warmed and buttered pan ; set them by the fire to rise 
again, baste the top over with butter, and bake in a 
quick oven as soon as they are light. Do not keep them 
too long rising or they might become sharp or sour. 

LIGHT FLOUR PUFFS FOR BREAKFAST. 

Take a tumbler of sifted flour, a tumbler of milk and 
two eggs. Put a teaspoonful of yeast powder in the 
flour before sifting ; beat the eggs separately. Mix all 



The Complete Cook Book. 199 

together, and add a teaspoonful of melted butter or lard 
just before bakiog in little fancy pans. Put salt in the 
flour with the yeast powder, and then bake as quickly 
as you can. 

ROLLS FOR BREAKFAST. 

Sift at night a quart of flour; add half a pint of milk, 
a spoonful of salt, two well-beaten eggs, and a half-cup 
of yeast. Work it well, cover it, and set it in a warm 
place to rise. Next morning work in two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, and mould the dough into rolls. Rub 
over each roll a little butter, and bake. 

POCKETBOOES, FOR TEA-VERY MUCH 
LIKED. 

Take a cup of light and warm yeast, a cup of warm, 
sweet milk, two eggs beaten, a cup of sugar, a spoonful 
of grated orange peel and nutmeg; add to this flour 
enough to make a thin batter, and set it in a warm place 
to rise. If you wish it for tea, you must make this 
batter up about nine o'clock in the morning, and in two 
hours it ought to be full of bubbles, and light. Then 
pour this batter into sifted flour, enough to form into a 
rather stiff dough ; add salt and a lump of butter as 
big as an egg. Work it thoroughly, and set it in a 
tureen to rise again. When it is risen it is ready to 
form into shapes, called pocketbooks. To do this you 
must flour the board and roll out the dough half an inch 
thick, smear the surface with butter, cut into strips 
about six inches long, and two inches wide, fold them 
over and over, and lay them within an inch of each 
other on a warm and greased baking tin, or pan; swab 
the tops over with warmed butter and a beaten egg; set 
them now to rise, which will require an hour. Just 
before you put them in the oven, you must sift some 
sugar over them. 

A NICE WAY TO MAKE YEAST POWDER 
BISCUIT. 

Take a quart of flour — which is about the quantity 
required by an ordinary family of six persons; sift one 



200 The Complete Cook Book. 

pint of the flour in a tin basin, and sift into it two heap- 
ing spoonfuls of yeasb or baking powder. Add to the 
flour a tablespoonf ul of lard ; put this also in the basin 
and make, with a little salt, a nice batter; beat the 
flour, lard and water very briskly until it is light. 
Take down your biscuit board and sift on it the other 
pint of flour, make a hole in the flour and pour in your 
batter, gently stirring it until it is a soft dough ; keep 
it as soft as possible, roll it out, cut it with the biscuit 
cutter, and bake quickly. These biscuits never have 
that screwed or drawn-up look that most biscuits made 
with yeast powder have. 

CORN AND WHOLE WHEAT MUFFINS. 

One and one-half cups yellow corn flour, one cup 
whole wheat flour, Franklin or Arlington, one-half cup 
common flour. These are delicious. This rule makes 
fifteen mufiSns. If fewer be desired, half of the cooked 
corn-meal mixture may be used, and the remainder 
reserved for another baking. 

GERMAN HORNS. 

One-half pint of scalding milk; let it stand until 
lukewarm, and add one-half ounce of yeast cake, one 
tablespoonful of butter, one-half teaspoonful of salt; 
add sufficient flour to make a stiflf batter, and beat thor- 
oughly, or until tough and elastic ; then set in a warm 
place and allow to rise thirty minutes. Now flour a board 
and roll thin ; cut in crescents and stand fifteen minutes 
in a warm place; then bake in a quick oven. When 
half done varnish with the following glaze : One table- 
spoonful of beaten egg-white, one tablespoonful of pow- 
dered sugar and one tablespoonful of milk. Beat sU 
together and varnish the crescents. Sift powdered 
sugar and finely chopped almonds over the top and 
cook until done. 

BREAD STICKS. 

Bread sticks may be made by the above recipe, by 
adding the white of an egg, just before adding flour. 



The Complete Cook Book. 20 r 

RAISED TEA BISCUIT. 

One and one-half pints of flour, measured before sift- 
ing, one-half cup of yeast or one-half cake of com- 
pressed yeast, melted in one-half cup of warm water j 
one-quarter pint of sweet milk, one-half cup of lard 
and butter mixed, one egg, one-half teaspoonful of salt 
and one teaspoonful of sugar. Set this mixture at eight 
o'clock in the morning with one-half of the flour; make 
it up at one o'clock with the rest of the flour ; put in the 
pans at three o'clock and bake at six. 

BALTIMORE ROLLS. 

One quart of sifted flour, one tablespoonful of lard, 
one-half pint of milk, one tablespoonful of sugar, and 
one-half teacup of yeast and one-half teaspoonful of 
salt. Boil the milk ; let it get middling cool. Make 
soft, roll one-quarter inch thick, cut with a biscuit cut- 
ter, put a little melted butter on them, double them 
over and fasten with the flngers. Let stand a few min- 
utes and bake. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

French Rolls may be made by taking small pieces of 
dough and making into oval rolls very tapering at each 
end, laying them on buttered bread tins far enough 
apart so they will not touch each other; let them get 
light, and bake in quick oven. 

SWEDISH ROLLS. 

One pint milk, scalded, one-half cup butter, one-quar- 
ter sugar, one scant teaspoonful salt, whites of two eggs, 
one-half cup yeast, seven or eight cups flour. Melt the 
butter, and dissolve the sugar and salt in the hot milk; 
when lukewarm, add the yeast and beaten whites. Mix 
in flour to make a sponge or drop batter. In the morn- 
ing add the remainder of the flour, and knead twenty 
minutes. Let it rise till noon or till light; then knead 
again slightly, and roll out into a large, rectangular 
piece, half an inch thick. Have the edges as straight 



202 The Complete Cook Book. 

as possible. Spread all over with a thin layer of soft 
butter, and a sprinkling of sugar, cinnamon, grated 
lemon rind, and currants. KoU up like a jelly roll, 
cut oflE slices an inch wide, lay them with the cut side 
down on well-greased pans, and when well risen bake 
in a hot oven fifteen or twenty minutes. When done, 
glaze them with sugar dissolved in milk, and dry them 
a few minutes in the oven, or rub them with soft but- 
ter. If mixed in the morning, make a sponge with 
the scalded milk cooled, the eggs, salt, sugar and part 
of the flour. Place the bowl in a pan of warm water 
for three or four hours; then add the butter and the re- 
mainder of the flour. Knead, and after it is well risen 
roll out as above. 

EOLLS. 

One-half pint of scalding sweet milk ; while hot add : 
one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of salt, and dissolve one-half ounce of 
yeast cake in two tablespoonfuls of warm water. Now 
carefully stir in suflScient flour to make a soft dough ; 
knead until it loses its disagreeable stickiness; make 
out in rolls, let stand twenty minutes, theri bake. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUITS, 

One pint of flour, measured before sifting ; one heap- 
ing teaspoonful of baking powder, one-half teaspoonful 
of salt, one scant tablespoonful of lard and butter 
mixed, and a scant cup of sweet milk; mix flour and 
baking powder together; then rub into the mixture the 
butter and lard; wet with the milk, and after stirring 
the dough into the form of a smooth ball, roll it out an 
inch thick upon a board lightly sprinkled with flour. 
Cut out the biscuits and place them a little distance 
apart on lightly buttered pans, and bake about fifteen 
minutes. This receipt is for a small family. 

MAMMY SILVY'S BEATEN BISCUITS. 

One quart of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, a good 
pinck of baking powder and one tablespoonful of lard 
and butter mixed, dropped in the flour. Work it all 



The Complete Cook Book. 203 

together well and mix it very stiff with three-quarters 
cup of milk and one-quarter cup of water. It should 
just stick together, as it softens with beating. Beat 
until it blisters and pops and is smooth as satin. Cut 
out in very small biscuits and stick each one with a 
fork three times. 

MY MOTHER'S BUTTERMILK AND SODA 
BISCUITS. 

One pint of flour, one heaping tablespoonful of lard, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt and one-quarter teaspoonful 
of soda. Mix thoroughly and make up with a little 
less than a cup of buttermilk. If the milk is not sour 
enough put into it a pinch of cream of tartar. Make 
up after lunch and leave out a little flour to work into 
them again just before supper — the more you work and 
knead them the better they are. Roll out one-quarter 
of an inch thick and bake in a hot oven. This recipe 
cannot be excelled. 

SWEDISH ROLLS. 

Take biscuit dough, roll it out, butter it and sprinkle 
over it sugar and cinnamon, and roll up like a jelly 
roll. With a sharp knife cut it in two an inch wide; 
put each piece cut side down in buttered tins; sprinkle 
with sugar and cinnamon and bake in a quick oven. 

EGG BREAD OR CORN PONE. 

One-half cup of corn meal, one cup of flour, one egg, 
one tablespoonful of butter, one scant teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda (sifted 
with the flour), one teaspoonful of salt and one cup of 
sweet milk. Sugar may be added if liked. Mix flour, 
butter, sugar and yolk of egg together; add com meal, 
salt and milk, and the white of egg last. If you omit 
sugar, buttermilk is as nice as sweet milk. 

MOTHER R.'S CORN MEAL MUFFINS. 

One-half cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one 
scant cup of sweet milk, two cups of flour, one cup of 
corn meal, two eggs, one teaspoonful of salt and two 



204 The Complete Cook Book. 

teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Mix meal, sugar, salt 
and butter at night. Scald it and allow to swell until 
morning. Next morning sift the baking powder into 
the flour, and add it to the corn-meal mixture. Now 
add the beaten yolks and thin it with the sweet milk. 
Just before baking add the whites of the eggs, beaten 
dry and stiff. Bake in iron gems in a hot oven. Omit 
the sugar if you do not like it. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Parker House rolls are made after the recipe for 
milk bread with sponge, and when well risen and ready 
to shape, roll the dough on the board as you would 
pastry, and, if wanted richer, spread a generous table- 
spoonful of softened butter all over it. Fold the dough, 
and roll out again until nearly half an inch thick. 
Lift the rolled dough from the board and let it shrink 
back all it will, and be sure it is of uniform thickness 
before cutting, or the rolls will lose their shape. Cut 
with a round or oval cutter; press the thumb across the 
middle and fold over like a turn-over, letting the edges 
come together. As they rise they will open a little, 
and, if folded only halfway over, they are liable to 
open too far. Spread a bit of soft butter the size of a 
pea on the edge before folding it, if you like the crusty 
inside which that gives. Or roll the dough thinner, 
and put two rounds together with a thin spreading of 
butter between ; these are called twin rolls. 

CORN WAFFLES. 

Scald one pint of milk and pour it over one and one- 
half cups of corn meal. Let cool. Then add two 
beaten eggs, one teaspoonfnl of salt, one tablespoonful 
of butter. Mix two teaspoonfuls of baking powder with 
one tablespoonful of flour. Add this to the corn meal. 
Beat well. Bake in hot greased waffle iron. 

FLOUR MUFFINS. 

Four eggs beaten separately, one-quarter teaspoonful 
of salt, three-quarters pint of flour, three-quarters pint 
of new milk and a teaspoonful of boiling lard. 



The Complete Cook Book. 205 

MAMMY SILVY'S WAFFLES. 

Three egga beaten separately, one and one-quarter 
pints of flour, one-half teaspoonful of salt, two heaping 
tablespoonfuls of melted lard, and two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder and one scant pint of sweet milk. Sift 
the flour twice, pour in the milk gradually and then the 
hot lard, add the yolks and salt. Last of all stir or 
fold in the well- beaten whites and just before pouring 
in the irons add the baking powder. These are deli- 
cious. Use a pitcher to pour the batter. 

POPOVERS. 

Two eggs beaten separately until very light. Add 
the yolks to two cups of sweet milk, stirring while add- 
ing. Pour this mixture upon two cups of flour, to 
which has been added one teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der. Sbir constantly to keep from lumping, and beat 
until very light and smooth and strain through a sieve. 
Beat the whites with one-half teaspoonful of salt and 
add to the other ingredients. Heat the greased pop- 
over pans. All them half full of the batter and bake in 
a quick oven. 

SOUTHERN HOE CAKE. 

One cup of corn meal, sifted; one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, and scald it with boiling water, stirring all the time. 
It should be just thick enough not to run when you put 
it on the griddle. Hoe cake cannot be cooked too long, 
but it must not burn, and the griddle must be greased 
with salt pork. Put it on in a large round cake one inch 
thick, pat it smooth and cook slowly. As soon as one 
side browns turn it over and brown the other side, hav- 
ing first put a small lump of butter on top. 

MY MOTHER'S CORN MEAL MUFFINS. 

One-half pint of sweet milk, one-half pint of flour, 
one-half pint of corn meal, one-quarter cup of butter, 
one egg, one-half teaspoonful of salt, and one and one- 
half teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Sift baking pow- 



2o6 The Complete Cook Book. 

der in flour, add to it meal and butter, yolk of egg, salt 
and milk ; mix well together and last of all add the 
stiff-beaten white of egg; pour this mixture into a dozen 
well greased muffin gems, and bake in a quick oven. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Take one quart of flour and sift it. To one cup of 
milk add one-half cup of warm water, and stir into the 
sifted flour; take two eggs and beat separately; add 
sugar to the desired taste to the yolks of the eggs. 
After eggs are well beaten, add them to the batter; dis- 
solve a small yeast cake in batter and beat well; then 
put it to rise, and after it has risen, beat hard ; then 
put it into bread mould. Let rise again until it is risen 
enough to bake; make up five hours before wanted. If 
the cup of milk is not sufficient, add more to thin the 
batter. 

REMARKS ON GRIDDLE CAKES. 

First, and most important of all, is a soapstone grid- 
dle. It should never be greased. It should be hot 
enough to hiss when the batter touches it. Pour the 
batter from a pitcher to prevent ragged edges. 

MOTHER R.'S BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Take one quart of "lukewarm" water, or a little hot- 
ter (but not too hot), put a pinch of salt, and two table- 
spoonfuls of common molasses in this, then stir in the 
buckwheat flour until it is just thick enough to run off 
the spoon. Have ready dissolved, one-quarter cake of 
compressed yeast in a little warm water. Add this to 
the mixture, then set to rise in the kitchen near the 
fire, if it is freezing cold ; unless very cold let it stand on 
the table. In the morning add a little bit of soda, about 
what can be held on the point of a penknife; stir and 
let stand until ready to fry. 

MOTHER R.'S DRY BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES; 

Enough pieces of stale bread to make two cups of 

pulp. Let it soak over night in enough milk or water 

to cover it; in the morning drain the water off in a 



The Complete Cook Book. 207 

colander or squash strainer, then add one tabl^spoonful 
of melted butler, yolks of three eggs, a pinch of salt, 
a very full cup of flour, and then add enough sweet 
milk to thin them ; next add the beaten whites of three 
eggs and a pinch of soda dissolved in milk. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

One pint of flour, one heaping teaspoonful of baking 
powder, one-half teaspoonful of sugar, one-half table- 
spoonful of melted butter, one egg beaten separately, 
three-quarter pint of sweet milk and one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt; mix flour, baking powder, sugar and salt 
together ; then stir in the butter, eggs and milk, adding 
the whites of the eggs last. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

One pint of flour, one heaping teaspoonful of baking 
powder, one-half teaspoonful of sugar, one-half tea- 
spoonful of melted butter, one egg well beaten, three- 
quarters pint of sweet milk, one-quarter teaspoonful of 
salt, and one can of corn or six ears grated. 

MOTHER It's CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One-half teacupful of corn meal, one-half teacup of 
flour, two eggs, one-quarter teaspoonful of sugar, one- 
eighth teaspoonful of soda, and a little salt. Take the 
cup of corn meal and cover it with enough warm water to 
wet the meal and allow it to swell over night ; next morn- 
ing add the cup of flour, a pinch of salt, the yolks of the 
two eggs, a lump of butter half the size of an egg, the 
sugar and the soda wet in milk; then enough sweet 
milk to thin them. Add the whites of the eggs well 
beaten last. 

GOOD CORN MEAL GEMS. 

Mix one cup of corn meal, one cup of flour, one cup 
of sweet milk, one-quarter cup of butter, one egg, two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, one and one-half teaspoonfuls 
of baking power. When well mixed grease the gem 
pans and put a spoonful of this batter in each and bake 
in a quick oven. This amount will make twelve gems. 



2o8 The Complete Cook Book. 

SOUR MILK GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Mix one cup sour milk with one-third cup sour 
cream, stir into it three-fourths teaspooon soda, mashed 
fine, one-half teaspoon salt, one-half cup fine white corn 
meal, one-half cup of flour, one well-beaten egg and one 
tablespoon melted butter. Mix and beat thoroughly 
and then add enough more flour to make a mixture like 
thick cream. Add one level teaspoon baking powder. 
Drop from a tablespoon on a well greased griddle, and 
turn when full of bubbles. 

SOUR MILK CORN CAKES. 

Mix one cup bread flour, one-half cup fine yellow 
corn meal, one-half teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon 
soda and one-quarter cup sugar. Beat one egg very 
light. Pour one cup sour milk into the dry mixture, 
add the beaten egg and twotablespoonfuls melted butter 
or beef dripping, then stir all together and beat vigor- 
ously. Pour it into a shallow cake pan well greased, 
and bake about twenty minutes. 



The Complete Cook Book. 209 



PIES, CAKES, PASTRY, ETC. 



DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING AND BAKING 
PIES, TAETS, ETC. 

The delicacy of pastry depends as much upon the 
baking as the making, therefore strict attention should 
be paid to the following directions: 

Puff paste requires a quick, even heat; a hot oven 
will curl the paste and scorch it. 

Tart paste or short paste requires a degree less of 
heat. 

For raised or light crust, the oven may be heated as 
for puff paste. 

When baking with coal, if the iire is not brisk 
enough do not put on more coal, but add a stick or two 
of hard wood ; or if nearly done, put in a stick of pine 
wood. 

PIE CRUST. 

Here is a pie crust that can be eaten and easily 
digested by the most delicate stomach : To one quart 
of sifted fiour add a teaspoonful each of salt, sugar and 
baking powder, adding a nice slice of good butter. 
Rub this into the flour for ten minutes or more. Wet 
with milk or water, milk preferred, just enough to 
absorb the flour, stirring with a spoon. Take two pie 
pans, grease with lard, and then with butter over the 
lard. Divide the dough into four parts. Take your 
pie board, put on it quite a bit of flour, so the dough 
won't stick on the board. Handle as little as possible. 
Line pie pan with crust. Cut away what crust remains 
on the edge. Don't mix it with the other crust — put it 
away for something else. Fill the pie pan with what- 
ever fruit desired. Handle the top crust the same. 



2IO The Complete Cook Book. 

Melt some butter and sugar together; rub the top crust 
over with the melted butter and sugar. Bake in a 
quick oven, and the crust of the pie will be tender and 
delightful. 

FAMILY PIE CEUST— SHORT. 

Put a pound of sifted flour into a bowl, work into it 
half a pound of sweet lard or beef drippings, with a des- 
sertspoonful of salt. When it is thoroughly mixed 
put to it enough cold water to bind it together. Flour 
the paste, slab, or table, and rolling pin. Take a part 
of the paste and roll it to less than a quarter of an inch 
in thickness. This will be quite rich enough for health 
or taste. A bit of volatile salts, the size of a small nut- 
meg, dissolved in a little hot water and put to the paste 
will make it more light and delicate. 

PIE CRUST. 

Two and one-half cups of sifted flour, two saltspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, two saltspoonfuls of salt, one- 
half cup of sweet lard and one-quarter cup of butter. 
Mix the flour, baking powder and salt together and 
rub in the lard. Bind it together with about one-half 
cup of ice water. It must be mixed with a knife very 
stiff, and not worked at all. Take it up in a rough- 
looking mass; roll it out quickly; put the butter on the 
paste in little pieces and sprinkle with flour. Fold over 
and roll out. Cut into pieces for each pan. Handle 
as little as possible.' This will make two single crusts. 
It is claimed by a fine authority that a bit of volatile 
salts, the size of a small nutmeg, dissolved in a little 
hot water and put to the paste makes it more delicate. 

TO MAKE PIE CRUST FLAKY. 

In making a pie, after you have rolled out your top 
crust, cut it about the right size, spread it over with 
butter, then shake sifted flour over the butter, enough 
to cover it well. Cut a slit in the middle, place it over 
the top of your pie, and fasten the edges as any pie. 
Now take the pie on your left hand, and a dipper of 



The Complete Cook Book. 211 

cold water in your right hand ; tip the pie slanting a 
little, pour over the water sufficiently to rinse off the 
flour. Enough flour will stick to the butter to fry into 
the crust to give it a fine, blistered, flaky look, which 
many cooks think is much better than rolling the hutter 
into the crust. 

PUFF PIE CRUST. 

If you wish to use puff paste for pies, there are a few 
things to rememher. To begin with, it shrinks, and 
should therefore be cut a trifle larger than the pie plate, 
which should never be greased. If an upper crust is 
to be used, roll it larger than the pie pan and cut 
several holes in the top to let the steam escape. Roll 
your paste out one-quarter inch thick; then roll it up, 
like a jelly roll, and cut from the end of the roll. Pat 
it out flat, and roll it to loosely fit the pan. Put in 
your filling, wet the rim, place your top crust on and 
pinch it closely, but lightly together. Bake until 
brown, and when done slide it into a china plate. 

APPLE PIE. 

Quarter tart apples, remove the core and peel. Make 
a syrup of white sugar in a porcelain saucepan, flavor 
with lemon juice strained and nutmeg, and one or two 
whole cloves. Scald your apples in this until they are 
slightly tender, then set aside until cold. Line a deep 
pie dish with puff paste and cover with the apples. 
Dust with flour and bits of butter, wash with a small 
wineglassful of brandy and bake without a cover. Or 
you may stew the apples tender; rub them through a 
sieve, sweeten and flavor them to taste, and to each 
pint of apple add one-half pint of whipped cream and 
whites of three eggs beaten dry. Mix well and spread 
on a pie crust which has been baked separately. 

SOUTHERN SLICED SWEET POTATO PIE. 

Boil one pint of sweet potatoes, peel, slice and lay 
them in a syrup of sugar, flavor with cloves and nut- 
meg. Scald and cover a pie crust which has been 
baked separately with the slices, strew with bits of but- 
ter and wash with one-fourth cup of brandy. 



212 The Complete Cook Book. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Peel and remove the soft parts and seeds from a 
pumpkin. Cut it into pieces and put it in a saucepan 
of cold water, and stew or steam until tender and soft. 
Drain well, then strain through a colander. To one 
quart of strained pulp, add one teaspoonful of melted 
butter while hot, one quart of rich milk, six beaten 
eggs, twelve tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, one- 
third cup of molasses, one heaping tablespoonful of 
ginger, a pinch of salt, cinnamon and nutmeg to taste. 
If not sweet enough, add more sugar. A wineglass- 
ful of brandy is an improvemlent. Fill a deep pie 
plate with this mixture and bake in a moderate oven 
thirty minutes. 

MOTHER R.'S LEMON PIE. 

One cup of white sugar, one cup of hot water, two 
small or one large lemon, two table&poonfuls of corn- 
starch, three tablespoonfuls of melted butter and two 
eggs. Grate the yellow lemon rind and put in water. 
Set on the range and allow it to boil two minutes, then 
beat the yolks of eggs, sugar and butter together ; dis- 
solve the cornstarch in a little cold water; put this in 
with the egg mixture, etc. ; then let it boil until it 
thickens Have ready a baked crust and fill it with 
this rich jelly. Cover with meringue. 

Meringue : Whites of two eggs, beaten with a lit- 
tle salt light, but not dry; add two tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar through a sieve. Now beat as long as 
you please. Cover your pie with this, dust thickly 
with powdered sugar and set in a slow oven until fawn 
color, or about ten minutes. 

OEANGE PIE. 

To the juice and sliced pulp of two large fresh 
oranges, add the grated yellow rind of one orange. 
Beat the yolks of three eggs with a cupful of sugar and 
beat the whites to a high froth and add to them a cup of 
milk. Mix all the above together. Have ready a nice 
puff paste, and bake the mixture in it. 



The Complete Cook Book. 213 

LEMON PIE. 

Grate the rind and express the juice of three lemons; 
rub together a cup and a half of powdered sugar and 
three tablespoonfuls of butter; beat up the yolks of four 
eggs, and add to the butter and sugar, lastly the lemon ; 
bake on a rich puff paste without an upper crust. 
While the pie is baking, beat up the whites of the four 
eggs with powdered loaf sugar, spread it over the top 
of the pie when done ; then set back in the oven a few 
moments to brown lightly. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

Cut off the brown part of the cocoanut, grate the 
white part, mix it with milk, and set it on the fire and 
let it boil slowly eight or ten minutes. To a pound of 
the grated cocoanut allow a quart of milk, eight eggs, 
four tablespoonfuls of sifted white sugar, a glass of 
wine, a small cracker pounded fine, two spoonfuls of 
melted butter and half a nutmeg. The eggs and sugar 
should be beaten together to a froth, then the wine 
stirred in. Put them into the milk and cocoanut, 
which should be first allowed to get quite cool; add the 
cracker and nutmeg, turn the whole into deep pie 
plates, with a lining and rim of puff paste. Bake them 
as soon as turned into the plates. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Beat three eggs slightly, add three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, one saltspoonful of salt, and one saltspoonful of 
nutmeg, if liked. Pour on three cups of scalded milk; 
strain into a deep plate lined with paste. Bake slowly, 
and the moment it puffs and a knife blade comes out 
clean, it is done. 

BERRY PIES. 

Pick over the berries and sprinkle slightly with flour; 
add sugar to taste — about one cup for a quart of fruit. 
Do not spoil the fruit flavor by using spices. Bake in 
a deep plate, with two crusts. 



214 The Complete Cook Book. 

SOUTHEEN MOLASSES PIE. 

Mix TOgether three eggs well beaten with one cup of 
sugar and three tablespoonfuls of melted butter and a 
little powdered ginger. Put one cup of New Orleans 
molasses on the stove, and when it boils add the egg 
ihixture gradually, stirring all the time. Bemove and 
pour in a rich crust and bake. 

APPLE SYRUP PIE. 

Line a pie iish with a short crust, and spread over a 
thin layer of golden syrup. Fill up with slices of 
apple, packed closely together. Sprinkle the top with 
sugar, and small lumps of butter, and a pinch of grated 
nutmeg. Cover with a lattice- work of pastry and bake. 

APPLE POT PIE. 

First, the pastry : Rub into a pint of flour a heaping 
spoonful of lard. Strew in a little salt, and work it 
until the mass becomes numberless little globules and 
balls. Then moisten with cold water, and press them 
together until they adhere, and your pastry is made. It 
must not be kneaded or worked over at all. Let any 
cook try this method, and he will find it the best and 
easiest way to make fine leaf paste, and he will never 
again countenance the old rolling, larding, butter- 
spreading system. Now for the fruit : Pare, core and 
quarter one dozen apples. Put them in a baking pan, 
with one large cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of 
spices, two of molasses and one of butter; add water 
until the fruit is nearly covered, and put it in the oven 
to bake and stew, and brown. When the apples begin 
to soften, dredge in a little flour, for the juice, though 
plentiful, must not be watery. Roll out the pastry. 
Cut the cover to suit the pan, and make the trimmings 
into dumplings, which must be dropped at intervals 
among the fruit. Fold the pie cover in half, make 
several oblique incisions for openings, lay it on and 
brown it lightly. Serve on a dish like peach cobbler. 
Like that substantial dessert, it may be eaten with 
cream. 



The Complete Cook Book 215 

GEANDMOT-HER'S MINCE MEAT. 

Boil a nice piece of sirloin beef or tongue. (Wver the 
meat with hot water and simmer until tender. Let it 
become cold in the water in which it is boiled. Chop 
it fine, and if you use tongue peel off the skin. To two 
cups of meat chopped fine add two cups of raisins 
seeded, one and one-half cups of picked currants 
mashed and dried, three cups of brown sugar, one 
scant cup of best New Orleans molasses, five cups of 
tart chopped apples, one scant tablespoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of powdered 
cloves, nutmeg and mace to taste, grated rind of two 
lemons and juice of three lemons, one ounce of citron, 
one-half pint of brandy, one tablespoonful of rum, one- 
half cup of cider or sherry, a pinch of cayenne, two 
cups or enough meat stock to make moist. Mix and 
boil in a porcelain kettle ten minutes, and when cold 
add stock, brandy and rum. Pack in a crock and set 
away in a cool place. When ready to use line a deep 
pie plate with pufE paste, put in the mince meat, add a 
spoonful of butter, put the top on a little large, as it 
will shrink, and make three incisions on each side of 
the middle. Pinch it lightly with the bottom crust, 
and bake it in a quick oven until done, or about three- 
quarters of an hour. Remove it to the open door, 
sprinkle it generously with powdered sugar, and return 
it to the oven until the sugar is entirely melted, and 
serve either hot or cold, 

CAKE MAKING. 

First of all, look over your recipe and see that every- 
thing it calls for is in the house. Use only the best 
flour, and sift it before either weighing or measuring 
it. Allow it to sun at least an hour before you are 
ready for it. The butter must be only the very best, 
and all the salt washed out of it. Use a wooden spoon 
for mixing, and line your cake pan with greased paper. 
Everything depends upon the baking. The fire should 
be moderate, but sufiScient to last through the entire 
baking. If it browns before rising, the oven is too 
hot. You do not require as hot an oven as for bread. 



2i6 The Complete Cook Book. 

An authority says thin cakes bake in about eighteen 
minutes; thicker ones in about half an hour; thick 
loaves in an hour, and fruit cake requires nearly three 
hours, according to size. 

POUND CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of granulated sugar, 
three-fourths pound of butter (salt washed out), eight 
eggs beaten separately, one-quarter teaspoonful of bak- 
ing powder; flavor to taste. Bake three-quarters of an 
hour. 

JELLY CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one and one- 
half cups of flour, one-half cup of milk, one teaspoonful 
of baking powder, one teaspoonful of vanilla and three 
eggs. I use the same recipe for strawberry shortcake; 
when done have the berries lightly crushed and 
sugared; put them between the layers of cake; lay 
some of the finest berries on top, sprinkle with pow- 
dered sugar, and cover with whipped cream just before 
serving. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Six eggs, two cups of fine granulated sugar, two and 
one-quarter cups of flour sifted three times, one cup of 
boiling water, one level teaspoonful of baking powder; 
flavor to taste. Boat yolks of eggs and sugar to a 
cream; then pour into the boiling water; add flour with 
baking powder in it, then whites of eggs beaten stiff. 
Bake in a moderate oven one hour. A cup of cold 
water in the pan over it keeps the oven moist. 

FEENCH CKEAM CAKE. 

Four eggs, one cup of white sugar, one cup and two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of baking 
powder in flour, and two tablespoonfuls of cold water. 
This cake is better a day or two old. Bake in two deep 
pans and split with a sharp knife. When cold fill with 
the following custard : 

Filling: Boil nearly one pint of milk; mix two 



The Complete Cook Book. 217 

tablespoonf uls uf cornstarch with a little new milk, add 
two eggs and stir in the milk slowly with one scant 
teacup of sugar. If you wish it very rich add one-half 
cup of butter; but it is very good without butter» 
When cool add two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 

CARAMEL CAKE. 

Whites of eight eggs, three-quarters cup of butter, 
one and three-quarters cups of sugar, two and three- 
quarters cups of flour, one-half cup of sweet milk, and 
one heaping teaspoonful of yeast powders. Bake in 
jelly pans. 

Filling: Four cups of brown sugar, one cup of 
sweet milk, one cup of butter and two cups of shelled 
pecans. Put sugar and milk on stove together; after it 
commences to boil put in butter and let it boil until it 
will drop from the spoon; then put in pecans and let it 
remain a few minutes on the stove, then remove and 
beat until it is stiff enough to. put between the cake. 

FRUIT [CAKE. 

Eight pounds of raisins, two and one-half pounds of 
citron, two pounds of currants, one pound of butter, ten 
eggs, four cups of brown sugar, six cups of flour, one 
cup of milk, three tablespoonf uls of/ ground cinnamon, 
two tablespoonf uls of ground allspice, one tablespoonful 
of ground cloves, four grated nutmegs, one small cup 
of molasses, one wineglassful of brandy and two table- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. This recipe makes two 
very large fruit cakes. 

SPICE CAKE— MY MOTHER'S. 

One tablespoonful of butter, one-half cup of sugar, 
two whole eggs and yolks of six more. Mix this well, 
then add one cup of golden syrup, or honey, and one 
tablespoonful of brandy. After stirring all together 
well, add three and one-quarter cups of flour, two cups 
of shelled pecans, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of 
cloves, and one-quarter cake of bitter chocolate grated. 



2i8 The Complete Cook Boot. 

Spread as thin as possible in greased bread pans, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

Icing : One cup of granulated sugar, with enough 
hot water to dissolve it. Boil until it threads from the 
spoon. Beat the white of an egg stiff, to which add the 
boiling candy slowly and add the piece of one-half 
lemon. (Will keep for a month.) 

ANGEL FOOD CAKE— ALWAYS RELIABLE. 

One tumbler of flour sifted twenty times. One and 
a half tumblers of granulated sugar sifted twenty 
times, one even teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, whites of eleven eggs. Beat the 
eggs to a stifp froth, then add sugar by sprinkling it in 
lightly. (Add cream of tartar to flour the last time 
you sift it.) After you have put in sugar, add flour 
lightly, then vanilla. Do not beat after the flour is in 
but two or three strokes. Flour your pan, put in a 
moderate oven and bake forty-five minutes. Do not 
look at it until it has been in the oven fifteen minutes. 
This cake will keep moist and fresh a week. 

CHARLOTTE POLONAISE. 

Whites of thirteen eggs, three cups of sugar, five 
cups of flour (after sifting once), one cup of butter, and 
one cup of milk. Put two teaspoonf uls of cream tartar 
and one teaspoonful of soda in the flour. Sift flour five 
times. Cream the butter, add sugar, then flour and 
milk alternately (pouring the milk through a sieve), 
liast put in the whites of egg beaten stiff ; flavor to taste. 
This batter makes six layers. 

Filling : Boil not quite one pint of morning's milk ; 
beat three eggs with one teacup of sugar and one table- 
spoonful of flour sifted in it, and add the milk before 
taking off Put in a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut, allow it to thicken, flavor with vanilla and set 
aside to cool. Divide in half and put in one part 
chopped citron. Blanch one-quarter pound of almonds, 
chop fine and add to the other portion. Crystallized 
cherries with the almonds and English walnuts .with 
the citron is an improvement. This is delicious. 



The Complete Cook Book. 2 19 

SISTER BETTIE'S SUGAR CAKE. 

One tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of 
lard, one cup q<: sugar, one-half cup of buttermilk, one 
teaapoonful of soda mixed in milk, one egg, flour to roll 
and flavor to taste. 

BRIDE'S CAKE— A SPLENDID RECIPE. 

Take three-quarters of a pound of butter, wash and 
cream it, add one pound of white sugar; beat them 
well together, then add the beaten whites of seventeen 
eggs, alternately with a pound of sifted flour. Flavor 
with lemon or rose, and bake. This is a most delicious 
and delicate cake. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. . 

Seven eggs, two cups of granulated sugar, two cups 
of sifted flour, two-thirds of a cup of cold water; flavor 
to taste; one tablespoonful of baking powder. Beat 
the yolks of the eggs and the sugar to a cream, then 
add the water, then the flour; beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, and beat in lightly the very last 
thing. Bake in a moderate oven. 

SNOW CAKE. 

Whites of eight eggs, two cups of white sugar, one 
cup of butter well washed, one cup of sweet milk, one 
teaspoonf ul of soda and two of cream of tartar sifted into 
two cups of flour and one of corn starch. Beat the but- 
ter to a cream and then beat in the flour ; beat the 
white of the eggs to a stiff froth and beat the sugar into 
that. Into this stir the milk and then add the two mix" 
tures together. This can be baked in a loaf; but it is 
better baked in layers between which is spread boiled 
frosting with almonds pounded to a paste, mixed into 
it; or with a spread of whipped cream between the 
layers. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE. 

Two eggs, one-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one- 
half cup milk, one and a half cups flour, sifted with 
one teaspoonful baking powder, and one-half teaspoon- 



220 The Complete Cook Book. 

ful vanilla ; stir butter and sugar to a cream, and add 
the eggs one at a time, stirring a few minutes between 
each addition; next add the vanilla, the sifted flour 
and milk alternately; bake in two paper-lined jelly 
tins in a medium hot oven. In the meantime prepare 
a boiled ghocolate glace; put some of the glace between 
the layers, and pour the rest over the top of the cake. 

FIG CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup of sweet milk, one and one-half cups flour, 
one teaspoonful baking powder, one-half cup corn- 
starch, whites of six eggs. Bake in two layers, and 
fill with fig filling. Chop one pound figs, add one- 
half cup sugar and one cup water. Stew until soft and 
smooth. Spread between the layers and ice the whole 
cake with boiled icing. 

NUT LAYER CAKE. 

Ladies seeking a new and delicious variety of cake 
for the five o'clock tea table will find it in the following 
recipe : The ingredients are one cup of sugar, one cup 
of milk, two cups of flour, with two even tieaspoonfuls 
of baking powder sifted in, a piece of butter the size of 
an egg, two eggs — the white of one, however, being put 
aside for the frosting. Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream, add the milk, the yolks of the two eggs and 
white of one well beaten, and lastly the two cups of 
flour, stirring the whole mixture thoroughly together. 
Then take out one-third into another dish, grate in 
sufficient chocolate to make it look dark, and flavor 
with vanilla. Flavor the remaining two-thirds with 
lemon, put the chocolate mixture — which is to form the 
middle layer — into one pan to bake, and the light mix- 
ture into two others. For the filling, whip half a pint 
of thick cream, chop a cupful of walnuts fine, add a 
cup of sugar, and stir both into the cream. Spread be- 
tween the layers, and cover the top with an icing made 
•of the white of egg reserved for the purpose, sifting 
shredded cocoanut over it. If nuts cannot be obtained, 
or several cakes are to be made, and variety isj^esired, 
chopped figs or raisins can be used with the cream. 



The Complete Cook Book. 22 r 

FRUIT SPONGE CAKE. 

Three eggs, one teacupful of sugar, three-quarters of a 
teacupful of pastry flour,, an even teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, half as much soda; flavor with grated rind of 
half a lemon. Beat the whites of the eggs till stiff ; mix 
the yolks with sugar till very smooth ; mix soda and 
cream of tartar with flour, put all together and stir (not 
beat) slowly till the top is well covered with bubbles. 
Bake in a tin with straight sides. Spread a thin layer of 
the cake batter in the bottom of the tin, and upon this 
place a layer of fruit made of three figs and three table- 
spoonfuls of seeded raisins chopped fine, and mixed 
thoroughly with three tablespoonfuls each of dried cur- 
rants and shredded cocoanut; over this pour the largest 
portion of the batter; and bake in a moderately hot 
oven. This cake should not be taken from the tin until 
twenty-four hours after baking. 

MODERN STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Beat to a cream one-half cup butter, add, gradually 
one cup sugar, juice of half a lemon, three well-beaten 
eggs, and lastly three and one-quarter cups of flour, in 
which one-quarter teaspoonful salt and two teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder have been mixed; beat well and 
pour into three well greased pans; bake twenty minutes 
in a .moderate oven. Sprinkle one scant cup of sugar 
over three pints of hulled berries, spread between layers 
of cake and also on top of last one. Pile high with 
whipped cream ; one pint of cream will suffice. May 
be eaten hot or cold. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMEL CAKE. 

One-half cupful of butter, one and one-half cupfuls of 
granulated sugar, one cupful of milk, three cupfuls 
of sifted flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
beaten whites of four eggs. Bake in layers. 

Filling : Whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; 
one and one-fourth pounds confectioners' or XXXX 
sugar atlded gradually. Flavor with one teaspoonful 
of vanilla. Spread in layers and allow to stand until 



22 2 The Complete Cook Book. 

cold. Melt two squares of Baker's chocolate in a small 
dish over the teakettle and spread very thinly over the 
hardened white icing. Cocoanut may be used instead 
of chocolate if preferred, but must be put on before the 
white icing hardens. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

To one pound of fine loaf sugar add half a pint of 
cold water ; boil over a brisk fire until the sugar, when 
prtjssed with the fingers, presents the appearance of 
strong glue; add six ounces of grated chocolate; flavor 
with vanilla. 

BOILED CHOCOLATE GLACE. 

Plnce a small saucepan, with one-half pound sugar, 
one-quarter pound grated chocolate and one-half pint 
water, over the fire, and stir and boil till it forms a 
thread between two fingers; remove from fire and stir 
till a thin skin forms on top of the glace ; then use it at 
once; spread over the cake and set for a few minutes in 
a cool oven. 

ICING. 

One pint of granulated sugar, with enough hot water 
to dissolve it. Let boil until it threads from the 
spoon. Beit the whites of two eggs stiff and pour the 
boiling sugar in it, beating all the time. Flavor to 
taste. Always flour cake with flour or cornstarch be- 
fore spreading the icing on it. Ground sugar is much 
better than pulverized. 

PECAN KISSES. 

One tumblerful of pecans, having the kernels as 
nearly as possible in halves ; whites of six eggs, four- 
teen tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar (the spoon a 
little more than level full). Beat eggs well, then sift 
and add sugar gradually and beat from three-quarters 
to one hour, or long and thoroughly, until when dropped 
on paper it does not run. Then beat in lightly the 
pecans ; drop at once on smooth, dry brown paper, place 



The Complete Cook Book. 223 

on a board or in a pan, and bake in a moderate oven 
about twenty minutes. Place eggs on ice twelve hours 
before using. 

EGG KISSES. 

Four whites of eggs, one-half pound powdered sugar; 
beat well and bake quickly. ' Flavor with extract of 
rose or lemon, 

GINGER SNAPS, 

One pint of molasses, one teacup of brown sugar, one 
teacup of butter and lard mixed. Beat the molasses till 
it looks light, then put it in the sugar; next pour in the 
hot butter and lard, one egg beaten light, one teacup of 
ground "ginger. Have the mixture milk-warm; work 
flour in briskly. Roll them and bake quickly. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup molasses, one-half cup sugar, one table- 
spoonful ginger, one teaspoonful soda, one-half cup 
softened butter. Flour to roll out very thin. Heat the 
molasses, pour it over the sugar; add the ginger, soda, 
butter and flour. Cut and bake quickly. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup of butter and lard mixed, one cup of sugar, 
one cup of molasses, half a cup of water, one table- 
spoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of soda in hot 
water, flour enough to roll the dough soft. 

SOFT MOLASSES COOKIES. 

One ci:.p molasses, one tablespoonf ul ginger, one tea- 
spoonful soda, two tablespoonfuls warm water or milk, 
one-half cup butter, softened ; flour to mix soft. Mix 
in the order given, dissolving the soda in the milk. 
Roll out one-third of an inch thick. Cut in small 
rounds. 

ENTIRE WHEAT COOKIES. 

Cream one-half cup butter with one cup light brown 
sugar. Add one egg, beaten light, and one-half cup 
sour milk, the more creamy the better. Mix one-half 
level teaspoon each of flne soda and salt with one cup 



224 The Complete Cook Book. 

entire wheat flour, and stir this into the mixture. Flour 
one-half cup seeded raisins, cut fine, and stir these in, 
then add enough more flour to make a very stiff dough. 
EoU out one-quarter inch thick, cut in rectangular 
strips, and bake in quick oven. 

SPONGE GINGERBREAD. 

One cup sour milk, one cup dark rich molasses, one- 
half cup butter, one-half cup sugar, one egg, one tea- 
spoon soda, one tablespoon ginger, and two cups of 
flour. Warm the butter, molasses and ginger together, 
add the milk, flour and egg, and a pinch of salt, and 
last, the soda dissolved in one tablespoon of warm 
water. Bake in shallow pans. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

Take six cups of flour, three cups of molasses, one 
cup of cream, lard or butter — it is better with cream — 
one teaspoonf ul of saleratus, two teaspoonf uls of ginger, 
one of cloves, two eggs. This is delicious. 

GINGER BREAD. 

Two cups of molasses, three cups of flour, two-thirds 
cup of butter, one cup of sour cream or buttermilk, one 
egg, one tablespoonful of ginger and one tablespoonful 
of soda. Boil molasses and butter, then add ginger 
and soda. When taken from the fire add then the milk, 
eggs and flour. 

GINGER DROPS. 

One-half cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, one-half 
cup of butter, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one tea- 
spoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of cloves, two tea- 
apoonfuls of soda (in boiling water, about one cupful), 
two and one-half cups of flour. Add two well-beaten 
eggs the last thing before baking. Bake in gem tins 
and serve with sauce. 

MARSHMALLOW BASKETS. 

Mcrshmallow baskets will be found both toothsome 
and pretty. Make a rich cookie dough as follows: One 



The Complete Cook Book. 225 

half-cupful butter, one cupful sugar, two whole eggs or 
four yolks, two tablespoonfuls milk, flour to roll (about 
two and one-half cupf uls) two even teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, one-half teaspoonful vanilla. If preferred sub- 
stitute any other desired spice or flavoring. EoU out 
the dough thin and cut in diamond-shaped pieces about 
four inches between the opposite long ends. Place a 
marshmallow in the center of each and fold the two op- 
posite long points over it and press them together. The 
marshmallow will swell in baking and round the joined 
dough. It contracts in cooling, and the dough will be 
left like the handle of a tiny basket. Use the same 
dough for the sugar fingers. Break off pieces the size 
of a hickory nut and roll into strips aboiit four inches 
long, scarcely as thick as the little finger. Boll in 
sugar and bake, allowing plenty of room for spreading. 
They look very like lady-fingers. 

STEAWBEERY TEIFLE. 

One dry sponge cake sliced ; four eggs, whites and 
yolks beaten separately; four cups of milk, one cup of 
sugar, three pints of nice fresh strawberries. Scald the 
milk, beat in the sugar and yolks, and cook until it be- 
gins to thicken — about ten minutes. Let it get cold. 
Cover the bottom of a glass dish with sliced cake; wet 
with cold custard, and strew with berries. Sprinkle 
with sugar, another layer of cake, and so on until the 
dish is nearly full. , Pour over the rest of the custard. 
Beat the whites to a meringue, with a rounding table- 
spoonful of powdered sugar, and heap on top of the dish, 
putting a few choice berries in the white around. Set 
on ice until needed. It should be eaten soon after the 
berries go in. 

SISTEE MOLLIE'S JUMBLES. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, two pounds 
of flour, one-quarter cup of sour cream, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one teaspoonful of vanilla, three eggs. Eub 
butter into flour, then add sugar and other ingredients. 
Eoll very thin; cut in small cakes, and bake in tin papa 
in a quick oven. Press sugar on top side. These will 
keep in a small stone jar one month. 



226 The Complete Cook Book. 

CEULLERS. 

Three eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, one large 
cupful of sugar, two-thirds cup of sweet milk, one scant 
teaspoonful of soda, and one heaping teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar. Mix soda with milk and cream of 
tartar with flour. Flavor with cinnamon and nutmeg, 
stiffen with flour and bake in hot lard. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Mix one cup each of milk and granulated sugar into 
a mixing bowl, and stir till dissolved ; beat three eggs 
well and stir in. Take two quarts of flour and three 
heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder sifted together; 
mix the whole into a soft dough, using as little flour in 
manipulating it as possible. Cut into rings and fry in 
very hot lard. Mixing the sugar and milk together 
first keeps the dough from soaking grease, and avoiding 
the use of a great deal of flour in working with the 
dough makes the cakes puffy and delicate. 

DOUGHNUTS WITHOUT YEAST. 

Half a pound of butter, a pint of sour milk or butter- 
milk, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, a small tea- 
spoonful of saleratus dissolved in a little hot water, two 
well-beaten eggs, and as much flour as will make a 
smooth dough ; flavor with half a teaspoonful of lemon 
extract and half a nutmeg grated; rub a little flour 
over a bread board or table, roll the dough to a quarter 
of an inch in thickness, cut it in squares, or diamonds, 
or round cakes, and fry in boiling lard as directed. 
These cakes may be made in rings and fried. 

SOUR MILK DOUGHNUTS WITHOUT YEAST. 

Take a quart of flour, three eggs, three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar and half a cup of shortening; add a tea- 
spoonful of soda, and mix to a soft dough with butter- 
milk. Roll out, cut them, and fry in boiling lard. 



The Complete Cook Book. 227 

WAFERS. 

One cup sugar, butter size of an egg, and cream them 
together. Beat three eggs without separating, and add 
flour until it will drop from the spoon, or a little 
thicker than cake batter; flavor with vanilla. Grease 
irons well. 

WAFEES. 

Four spoonfuls flour, four spoonfuls sugar, four 
spoonfuls cream, one spoonful butter, orange peel, mace, 
and nutmeg. Prepare as for pound cake. Bake in 
wafer irons, rolling them while hot. 

PUFF PASTE— REMARKS. 

Puff paste requires a quick oven and even heat. Re- 
member, as much depends upon the ^baking as the 
making. A marble slab, rolling pin and a cool room is 
the secret of success in making pastry. Always use 
freshly sifted pastry flour, and the best butter, which 
must be washed well- before using. All good pastry 
should stand twenty-four hours. Before you begin to 
make your paste have two bowls on the table by you — ■ 
one with hot soapsuds and the other with cold water. 
Wash your hands in the hot suds and rinse them in 
cold water, but do not dry them ; this prevents the but- 
ter from sticking to your hands and the bowl. The 
dough should be ice-cold when put in the oven. 

PUFF PASTE. 

One pound of sifted pastry flour, one pound of fresh, 
sweet butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of 
sugar, white of one egg and one cup or more of ice 
water; scald a large bowl, then fill it with ice water, 
and let it stand until the bowl is. thoroughly chilled; 
then put the butter into it, and wash by working it 
with the hands until the water and ice becomes soft and 
elastic. Press the water into the butter until it assumes 
a waxy appearance, and is tough like putty. Take off 
a piece of butter the size of an egg ; make the rest into 
a flat cake and pack under ice water. Heap the flour 



228 The Complete Cook Book. 

in the center of a marble slab; make a hollow space in 
the center of it, and put into this your lump of butter 
size of an egg, sugar, salt and white of egg. Work 
this lightly together with your thumb and finger tu a 
paste, adding the ice water and the flour, a little at a 
time. Mix the whole well together, incorporating it 
very gradually. Save out about two tablespoonfuls of 
flour to knead it with, and when all is worked in knead 
it as you would bread until perfectly smooth. Then 
roll it out under your hand into a long roll and cut in 
half. Sprinkle the space of a square foot of the slab 
with a little flour, and roll out each half with a floured 
rolling pin into a sheet one-half inch thick. Wipe your 
cake of butter dry, and lay it in the center of one sheet; 
dredge quickly with flour and cover with the other 
sheet. Flatten it lightly with a roller. Roll it length- 
wise in a long, thin sheet. Keep the edges even while 
rolling and always roll from you. Fold in evenly at 
first the sides, then the ends ; turn the paste around so 
that the folds will run to and from you. Eollfrom you 
again, fold as before, wrap in a floured towel and stand 
away in the ice box fifteen minutes; then roll and 
fold twice again, and again stand in ice box fifteen 
minutes. Do this four times. Allow to remain in ice 
box over night and it is ready for use. 

FRITTER BATTER. 

Add one egg and one tablespoonful of olive oil or 
cream to puff paste. 

QUEEN FRITTERS. 

Put a half -pint of water and two ounces of butter in 
a saucepan to boil. When boiling throw in four 
ounces of flour, stir rapidly and continually until it 
sticks together and forms a ball ; take from the fire, 
give a thorough beating and stand aside to cool. 
When cold, add one egg without beating, and beat un- 
til the mixture is thoroughly amalgamated, then add 
another egg, beat again, and so on until you have added 
four eggs. Now give the whole a beating for about a 
minute. Have ready a kettle of hot lard and drop the 



The Complete Cook Book. 229 

mixture by spoonfuls into it, allowing plenty of room, 
as they swell four times their original bulk. They will 
turn themselves, and must be cooked until they stop 
popping. Serve hot, dusted with sugar and cinnamon. 

PLAIN FEITTERS. 

The whites of five eggs, one cup of sweet milk, two 
cups of sifted flour, one-quarter of a nutmeg and a 
pinch of salt. Stir the whites of the eggs into the milk 
in turn with the flour. The batter should be quite thick. 
You may have to add a little more flour. Fry in hot 
lard. Drop the batter in with a tablespoon, and fry a 
delicate brown. 

PEACH FRITTERS. 

Beat two eggs; add half a cupful of milk, a little 
salt, and flour enough to make a thick batter. Peel the 
peaches, cut them in two, take the stones out, and 
sprinkle powdered sugar over them. Dip them in the 
batter, and fry in hot lard. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Beat the whites and yolks of two eggs separately. 
Add together the yolks, one tablespoonful of sugar, and 
a cupful of sweet milk. Have the milk warm; then 
stir in two cupfuls of flour, a heaping teaspoonful of 
baking powder, a little salt, and the whites of the eggs. 
Beat all together. Put in thin slices of good sour ap- 
ple. Dip the batter over them, and drop large spoon- 
fuls into hot lard and fry to a light brown. This batter 
can be used for bananas, oranges, pineapple, and other 
fruits. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Beat the yolk of one egg with a little warm milk, 
and add to it one cup of sifted flour, one teaspoonful of 
butter, a pinch of salt and enough warm milk to make 
a batter that will drop from the spoon ; stir it until 
smooth, and then beat into it the white of one egg, 
beaten stiff and dry; peel and cut your apple in thick 
slices, cutting out the core. Dip and thoroughly cover 



230 The Complete Cook Book. 

them with the above batter, and drop in boiling lard; 
fry on both sides; when done, drain a few moments 
and sift powdered sugar over them, and serve with a 
nice syrup. 

GOOD RECIPES FOR SHELLS OR PATTY 
CASES. 

One quart of milk, one egg, one teaspoonful of olive 
oil, one-half teaspoonful of sugar, one-half teaspoonful 
of salt, flour enough to make a stiff batter. This will 
make five dozen shells. Dip your iron shell in the bat- 
ter, and drain a little. Then immerse in hot lard, until 
a delicate brown, then carefully remove and place on 
blotting paper. Don't grease your irons. 

PATTY SHELLS. 

Roll puff paste one-quarter inch thick, and cut with 
a biscuit cutter; dip cutters in hot water and cut 
quickly ; that the edges may not be pressed together. 
With a smaller cutter stamp out the centers from two- 
thirds of the pieces. Brush a little whi^ of egg on top 
of the large rounds near the edge, being careful not to 
get any of the egg on the edges, which would prevent 
them from rising. Two or three rims may be put on if 
a deep shell is desired. Varnish the inside of it with 
the yellow of the egg. Now cut a thick slice of stale 
bread with the same small cutter ; put in the center to 
keep paste from rising and filling the cavity. Bake on 
shallow tins, lined with paper, and when done remove 
the bread. Bake the small pieces cut from the centers 
on a pan by themselves. You may fill these shells 
with oysters, brains, sweetbreads, mushrooms or any 
cooked meat, cut in pieces and warmed in a thick, cream 
sauce. 

LADY LOCKS. 

Roll puff paste into long, straight pieces and cut with 
a pastry cutter or wheel. Brush the moulds with 
melted butter, and roll over them the narrow strips. 
Set in a pan on ice until cold, and bake. Fill them 
with meringue, stewed apples, prunes, berries or any 



The Complete Cook Book. 231 

cold meat, chopped fine, seasoned to taste, and mois- 
tened with cream sauce. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

One-half pint of hot water, two ounces of butter, one 
cupful of pastry flour and four eggs ; put the butter in 
a stewpan, melt and pour over it the hot water, and 
, allow to boil, then dump in the flour all at once; stir 
* rapidly and stir until it all cleaves together and until 
the pan is free from moisture; set on ice to cool; add 
eggs, one at a time, without beating — just stir them in 
— ^and after the last egg is added beat until well mixed, 
then cover and let stand an hour in the kitchen. Now, 
have a pan well greased with butter, and put a spoon- 
ful at a time in it until the pan is flUed. Don't allow 
them to touch, and set in oven until done. 

Filling for Cream Puffs: One-half pint of 
milk; set on stove until hot and stir in one tablespoon- 
ful of cornstarch; beat three eggs with three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and stir in the milk. Let it thicken 
and then All the puffs. 

EAGLETS. 

Cream puff paste may be dropped through a pastry 
bag in hot lard and fried into raglets. When done dip 
them in powdered sugar and a little cinnamon. 

GRANDMOTHER'S CHARLOTTE RUSSE— 
DELICIOUS. 

Yolks of six eggs, twelve rounded tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar, one-half box of Cox gelatine, one pint 
of sweet milk, one pint of cream, three dozen lady- 
fingers, and one tablespoonful of vanilla. Put the 
milk in a double boiler or else set the stewpan in a ves- 
sel of hot water. Add the gelatine to the milk and 
when thoroughly dissolved beat the eggs and sugar 
well together and add them. Let the custard thicken, 
which will take about fifteen or twenty minutes' cook- 
ing. Take it off, and when cool add vanilla. Set this 
on ice and then take the pint of cream (which must be 



232 The Complete Cook Book. 

set in ice and salt some time before using) beat the 
cream up very stiff and then beat it into the custard. 
The more and longer you beat, the better and lighter 
your charlotte russe. Line a mould with lady-fingers 
and when through beating custard pour it in and set 
aside until used. When a success, the charlotte russe 
will come out whole and can be cut with a knife. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Make a nice pie crust, raised with yeast, or not, as 
you desire; divide it into six parts, and roll each 
part thin ; have ready six good-sized tart apples, pared 
and cored ; fill up the cores with sugar and butter. 
Close the dough neatly around the apples, and turn that 
side down in a deep dish. If they are made with raised 
dough they should stand one hour; if with unleavened 
paste, sprinkle some sugar over them, also a little 
ground cinnamon or other spice, and set them in the 
oven to bake. Spread a little batter over each of the 
dumplings as they go to the oven. Put plenty of spices, 
nutmegs, cinnamon and mace. Throw a little water 
in the dish, and bake three-quarters of an hour. Wine, 
or sugar and butter sauce is a great improvement, but 
it is very good without it. 

BAKED APPLE ROLL. 

Make a paste, roll out thin. Spread over it apples 
cut in thin slices. Sprinkle nice sugar, and put bits of 
butter all over this. Roll it up, place it in a baking 
pan. Pour in water and put sugar and butter around 
it, grating over all a nutmeg. Any other kind of 
fruit can be made into the same kind of roll. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Sift one pound of flour on the table, make a hollow 
in the center, laying in it half a pound of butter, min- 
gling it slightly with the flour for five minutes • when 
done, make another hollow in the center, pour into it 
half a pint of cold water and two ounces of powdered 
sugar. Mix all together gradually for five minutea 



The Complete Cook Book, 233 

longer; it will then be a firm dough. Roll it together 
with the hands, and put it in a cool place for five min- 
utes. Peel and core six medium-sized pippin apples, 
sprinkle the table lightly with flour, lay the butter on 
it, roll it out twelve inches long by eight wide, and 
about the thickness of a silver dollar, then cut it into 
six equal-sized, square pieces. Arrange the apples up- 
ward in the middle of each square piece; mix together 
two ounces of granulated sugar with one teaspoonful 
of ground cinnamon, and fill the cavities of the apples 
with this. Break one egg into a bowl, beat it well, 
adding two tablespoonfuls of cold milk, mix well, and 
with a pastry hair brush moisten the edges of the pieces 
of dough, and fold them firmly so that the apples are en- 
tirely enclosed. Lay them on a baking pan, and with 
the rest of the beaten egg brush over the surface and 
sides of the dumplings. Place them in a moderate 
oven for thirty minutes, and after they are a nice light 
golden color, remove, and dress them on a dessert dish. 

MARLBOROUGH APPLE TARTS— VERY FINE. 

Quarter, and stew a dozen tart apples. To each tea- 
cup of this pulp, rubbed through a sieve, add a teacup 
of sugar, half a cup of melted butter, the juice and 
grated rind of two lemons, a cup of milk, four eggs and 
half a nutmeg. Beat all together and bake in pans 
lined with pastry, with a rim of puff paste around the 
edge. This is an old and always good recipe. 



234 The Complete Cook Book. 



DESSERTS, ETC 



PUDDINGS. 

Eggs must be beaten separately for puddings aud 
beaten very light and dry. The white should be added 
always, and baked at once. If puddings are to be 
boiled, a kettle of boiling water should be handy, as 
cold water must never be added. If steamed, the water 
must be kept boiling from the moment your pudding 
is put in the steamer. Never remove the cover until 
the pudding is done. Moulds used either for baking, 
boiling or steaming must be well greased. Bags for 
boiling should be dipped in hot water, wrung out and 
then dusted with flour. Always allow room for your 
pudding to swell. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound of suet, one pound of raisins, one pound 
of currants, half a pound of rolled crackers, half a pound 
of sifted flour, one pound of sugar, one-quarter of a 
pound of citron cut very fine, half-tumblerful brandy, 
half -tumblerful sherry wine, ten eggs well beaten, two 
teaspoonfuls (small) salt, one teaspoonful ground cin- 
namon, one teaspoonful nutmeg, half- teaspoonful all- 
spice, half teaspoonful cloves, peel of one lemon grated. 
Mix all the ingredients together dry, then add the' eggs, 
wine and brandy the last thing before turning into a 
buttered bowl, which will just hold the pudding. Tie 
a stout cloth tightly over the basin and plunge into a 
large kettle of boiling water. Boil six hours. The water 
must not be allowed to stop boiling one moment. The 
basin must have a rim to hold the cloth firmly; wring 



The Complete Cook Book. 235 

the cloth out of cold water and flour it well before 
using. Pour brandy over the pudding, and bring to 
the table in a blaze of flame. 



CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound and a half of raisins, half a pound of cur- 
rants, three-quarters of a pound of bread crumbs, half 
a pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound of beef suet, 
nine eggs, one wineglassful of brandy, half a pound of 
citron and orange peel, half a nutmeg, and a little ground 
ginger. Chop the suet as fine as possible, and mix it 
with the bread crumbs and flour, add the currants 
washed and dried, the citron and orange peel cut into 
thin slices, and the raisins stoned and divided. Mix it 
all well together with the grated nutmeg and ginger, 
then stir in nine eggs well beaten, and the brandy, and 
again mix it thoroughly together, that every ingredient 
may be moistened ; put it into a buttered mould, tie it 
over tightly, and boil it for six hours. This pudding 
may be made a week before using, boiled in a cloth, 
and hung up in a dry place, and when required put into 
a saucepan of boiling water and boiled for two hours 
or two hours and a half, then turned out, and served 
with sauce as above. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

Shell a pint of Italian chestnuts, rub o& the brown 
skin, cover with boiling water and after cooking for 
twenty minutes, rub through a colander ; have ready a 
pint of shelled, blanched and pounded almonds and one 
pound of candied fruits, cut in bits ; boil for fifteen 
minutes, a pint of sugar with a pint of water; add six 
egg yolks beaten very light, stirring them very gradu- 
ally into the boiling syrup; the moment this reaches the 
boiling point take it off and beat until cold ; now add 
the fruits, nuts, a pint can of pineapple minced fine, a 
pint of cream and four tablespoonf uls of sherry. Freez« 
as you would ice cream. 



236 The Complete Cook Book. 

A RICH STEAMED PUDDING, 

Stir thoroughly together one cup of molasses with 
one cup of butter and a cup of milk. Add one cup of 
chopped raisins and three cups of flour into which a 
teaspoonful of saleratus has been stirred. Add citron 
if desired, and steam in a pudding boiler three hours. 
For the sauce beat three eggs to a froth, stirring into 
them a cup of sugar and a little vanilla. 

MACAROON PUDDING. 

One-half box gelatine soaked in a cup of cold water 
one hour. One pint milk, four eggs, one cup granu- 
lated sugar, one wineglass sherry, one teaspoonful 
vanilla, one-quarter pound macaroons. Beat the yolks 
of eggs well with one cup granulated sugar, add the 
milk heated to boiling and place in a double boiler. 
Stir until it begins to thicken, then add soaked gelatine 
and sherry, stirring continually until gelatine is dis- 
solved. Beat whites to a stiff froth and pour slowly 
into them the boiling mixture, and mix well. When 
cool flavor with vanilla. Line mould with macaroons, 
fill in with the mixture and pack for six hours in ice 
and rock salt. Serve with whipped cream as decora- 
tion. , 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

If the "proof of the pudding" is in its being all 
eaten, it was certainly proved good. Peel three large 
oranges, cut them in thin slices, removing the seeds. 
Put them in a pudding dish and sprinkle over them one 
teacupful of sugar. Beat the yelks of two eggs with 
one tablespoonful of cornotrrch and two of sugar. 
Add a quarter teaspoonful of salt and stir it into a pint 
of boiling milk. As soo: . as it thickens, remove it from 
the fire, and when it is cool, spread it over the oranges. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth with two 
heaping tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; put it over 
the top of the pudding and brown it very slightly is 
a hot oven. Serve cold. 



The Complete Cook Book. 237 

DELICIOUS BREAD PUDDING. 

Buttei some slices of bread, cut thin, and lay them 
in a dish, with currants and citron between ; pour over 
it a quart of milk, with four well-beaten eggs, and 
sugar sufQcient to sweeten to taste, and bake. Serve 
with sauce. It is easily made, and very nice. It is 
good hot or cold. 

RICE PUDDING WITH PRUNES. 

Boil one and a half teacupfuls of rice with a quart of 
milk or water until the liquid is all absorbed. (Use a 
jacket kettle.) Add a quart of milk and continue the 
boiling until the rice is of a creamy consistency. Re- 
move from the fire; add a third of a teaspoonful of 
salt, a fourth of a nutmeg grated, a teacupful of 
white sugar, butter the size of a walnut, and two tea- 
cupfuls of stewed prunes, stoned and sweetened while 
stewing. Bake for an hour slowly, stirring occa- 
sionally, and finally browning the top nicely. Should 
be of the consistency of thick cream when done. Eat 
cold, without sauce. 

FROZEN PUDDING. 

Forty blanched almonds pounded rather fine, one 
ounce citron cut in small squares, two ounces currants, 
two ounces raisins stoned and divided. Soak all in two 
wineglasses of wine, all night. Make custard of a pint 
of cream or milk. If cream, use yolks of four eggs ; if 
milk, yolks of eight eggs. Make a syrup of one pound 
white sugar and a pint of water. When nearly boil- 
ing, put in the fruit and wine and boil one minute. 
When cool, mix with the custard. Whip whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the custard and syrup 
after they are mixed. Add last a wineglass of 
brandy. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Three eggs, one-quarter cup of sugar, one and one- 
half cups of sweet milk, and flavor to taste with 
vanilla. Beat three eggs without separating and beat 



238 The Complete Cook Book. 

all together well. Brush your pudding dish with 
melted butter and fill it three-quarters full of stale 
bread crumbs. Pour the custard over it and let soak a 
few minutes. Bake in a pan of hot water about twenty 
minutes. Spread a layer of jam over the top and cover 
with meringue. Slip it into the oven until it is a fawn 
color, and serve it with the following sauce : 
Sauce : One cup of water, one-quarter cup of sugar 
* and one tablespoonful of lemon juice. Put in a sauce- 
pan, and when boiling skim it well. Add a small 
slice of candied pineapple and a few candied cherries. 
Simmer very gently ten minutes. Boil one cup of 
raisins one hour, until plump and soft, and add to the 
bread pudding if a plum pudding is desired. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Two heaping cups of sifted flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful 
of vanilla, one-half teaspoonful of salt, two eggs, one 
cup of sugar, three tablespoonfuls of melted butter and 
one cup of milk. Mix cream of tartar, soda and salt 
with the flour, beat the eggs, add sugar and melted but- 
ter and milk, and stir into the flour. Bake in a shal- 
low dish. Dredge the top well with powdered sugar 
and serve with lemon or wine sauce. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

One cup of cold milk, one-quarter pound of grated 
cocoanut, three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, three 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, three tablespoonfuls of 
bread crumbs, one cupful of stoned raisins, grated rind 
of one lemon and the whites of two eggs beaten dry. 
Mix all together well and beat thoroughly. Pour this 
mixture into a well-buttered pudding dish and bake 
slowly one hour. The oven must not be too hot. Dust 
with powdered sugar and serve with cream. 

CORNSTAECH PUDDING. 

Mix one cup of cornstarch into enough cold water to 
make a batter, and add to it one cup of sugar, yolks of 



The Complete Cook Book. 239 

four eggs, and stir this mixture into, one quart of 
boiling milk. Let it remain a few minutes, then pour 
it all into a baking dish, and bake for ten minutes. 
Slip the pudding out, and put over it a layer of jelly 
and cover with a meringue made by beating the whites 
of four eggs with four tablespoonfuls of sugar. Brown 
lightly and serve. 

BOILED SUET PUDDING. 

One cup of finely chopped suet or two-thirds cup of 
butter, one cup of molasses, one cup of milk, one cup 
of chopped raisins and currants, three cups of flour, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one and one-half tea spoonfuls of 
soda, and one saltspoonf ul each of cinnamon, cloves, and 
nutmeg. Mix well, tie up in a cloth, and boil four 
hours. Serve with wine or foamy sauce. 

MOTHER E.'S RICE PUDDING. 

One-half cup of well-washed rice and a little salt ; 
cover with water and when soft add two quarts of 
sweet milk, a small lump of butter, nutmeg and sugar 
to taste. Bake two hours and keep stirring it every 
few minutes. Serve with cream. 

TAPIOCA AND RICE. 

Three tablespoonfuls cf tapioca, two tablespoonfuls 
of boiled rice, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, one quart of 
milk. Soak over night and bake one hour. 

CARAMEL PUDDING. 

Put one-half cup of granulated sugar in a skillet over 
the fire and stir constantly until it comes to boiling 
point and is brown ; add one teaspoonful of lemon juice, 
and while hot pour into tin moulds. If you have an 
aluminum pan it is better than a skillet. 

Custard : Beat without separating three eggs and 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar; beat together until light 
and then add one and one-half cups of milk and one 
teaspoonful of vanilla. As soon as the sugar is dis- 
solved pour into the tin moulds on top of the caramel 



240 The Complete Cook Book. 

and stand them in a baking pan of hot water. Put them 
in the oven and bake until they are set in the center, or 
until a straw comes out clean. 

SOUTHEEN SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

To one pint of hot boiled sweet potatoes add one and 
* one-half cups of butter and rub both together through 
a sieve; then add one-half cup of sweet milk, six eggs 
well beaten, a saltspoonful of salt, one and three- 
fourths cups of sugar, and flavor with grated lemon 
rind and a little brandy. Mix all together and beat 
well. Bake twenty minutes. Dust the top with pow- 
dered sugar. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Peel three large oranges, slice them in thin slices and 
take out the seeds. Line a pudding dish with them, 
and dust over them one cup of sugar. Now beat the 
yolks of two eggs with one tablespoonful of cornstarch 
and two of sugar. Add a small pinch of salt, and pour 
it into one pint of boiling milk, stirring constantly. As 
soon as it thickens, take it from the fire and when cool 
spread it over the oranges. Beat the whites of two 
eggs stiff and dry with two large tablespoonfuls of 
sugar; spread this over the top and brown it slightly 
in a hot oven. Serve cold, 

STEAWBEERY COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Cream one-third of a cupful of butter, add gradually 
one cup granulated sugar. Drop in one egg and beat 
thoroughly; add a half-cupful of cold water, one and 
seven-eighths cupfule of flour, sifted with two level tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder and a half-teaspoonful of 
salt; add also another egg; then beat thoroughly for 
three minutes. Bake in a buttered dripping pan for 
fifteen minutes in a quick oven. Cut in three-inch 
squares and serve, covered with strawberries prepared 
as follows : Wash and hull three pints of fresh straw- 
berries, place in a kettle with one-half cupful sugar 



The Complete Cook Book. 241 

and let them stand on the back of the range till the 
sugar melts and the berries are slightly warm. Then 
wash a little and pour over the pudding. 

EOLY-POLY PUDDING. 

The pastry for this favorite pudding may be made in 
several different ways, according to the degree of rich- 
ness required. For a superior pudding mix a pound of 
flour with half a pound of finely chopped suet; add a 
good pinch of salt, an egg and nearly half a pint of 
milk; roll it out to a long, thin form, a quarter of an 
inch thick and of a width to suit the size of the sauce- 
pan in which it is to be boiled ; spread over it a layer 
of any kind of jam, berries or fruit, and see that the 
fruit does not reach the edge of the pastry ; begin at one 
end and roll it up, fastening the fruit in, moisten the 
edges and press together; moisten a cloth in boiling 
water, flour it well, tie the pudding in it; place a plate 
at the bottom of the pot to prevent sticking and let the 
pudding boil quickly for two hours, or it may be steamed 
instead. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, one-half cup of Indian meal, one 
egg, one-half cup of sugar, one-half cup of molasses, 
butter the size of an egg, one-half teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon, one-half teaspoonful of ginger and one-quarter of 
a nutmeg, a cup of raisins and a little salt. Put the 
milk over the fire until scalding hot, then stir in the 
meal, dissolved in cold milk. After cooking a short 
time, cool and add remainder. Bake two hours in a 
slow oven, when nearly done pour over it all one cup of 
milk. 

MES. SPENCE'S PUDDING. 

One pint grated bread crumbs put into one quart fresh 
sweet milk. Beat the yolks of five eggs very light. 
Add one teacup of sugar to them. Stir in the milk and 
crumbs and add three-quarters of a pound of clipped 
raisins and one-quarter of a pound sliced citron. Sea- 
son with mace. Bake nicely. Whip the whites of the 



242 The Complete Cook Book. 

five eggs to a stiff froth. Add one teacup pulverized 
sugar and season with extract of vanilla. Put this 
over the pudding, and set in the stove again to brown 
it slightly. Serve hot with a rich sauce made of sugar 
and butter, seasoned with nutmeg and Madeira wine. 

HARD SAUCE. 

One-quarter cup of butter, one-half cup of powdered 
sugar, one tablespoonful of brandy and one-half tea- 
spoonful of lemon, vanilla or nutmeg. Rub the butter 
to a cream in a warm bowl ; add gradually the sugar 
and work it together until very light; then beat it to a 
froth ; add the brandy and nutmeg and beat it briskly 
five minutes longer. Pile it lightly on a dessert dish 
and place it in the ice box an hour before serving. The 
grated yellow rind of one orange is sometimes added. 

WHIPPED CREAM SAUCE. 

One cup of cream, one-half cup of powdered sugar, 
one teaspoonful of vanilla or the grated yellow rind of 
half a lemon and white of one egg; mix the cream, 
vanilla and sugar, and whip it without skimming off 
the froth. Beat the egg white until stiff and dry, and 
add it to the cream. Now beat it all well together and 
serve with pudding. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

One cup of hot water, one-half cup of sugar, one and 
one-half teaspoonfuls of cornstarch, juice and sliced rind 
of one lemon, one tablespoonful of butter and one egg. 
Boil the water, sugar and butter five minutes, and add 
the cornstarch wet in a little cold water and the juice 
and rind of the lemon ; and while it is coming to a boil 
beat the yolk of egg and add to it. Stir over the fire 
until it thickens; take from the fire and add the well- 
beaten white of one egg. 

WINE SAUCE. 

Dissolve one cup of powdered sugar in one cup of boil- 
ing water, and boil until nearly candied ; add a lump of 



The Complete Cook Book. 243 

butter the size of an egg and one tablespoonful of corn- 
starch wet in a little cold water. Boil five minutes and 
add a well-beaten egg, and just before taking off the 
fire add one-half cupful of Madeira wine, two table- 
spoonfuls of brandy and nutmeg to your taste. Bum 
sauce is made this same way, only add rum instead of 
wine and brandy after it is removed from the fire. 

BRANDY SAUCE— FOR PLUM PUDDING. 

Rub one-half cup of butter to a cream in a warm 
bowl and gradually add one cup of powdered sugar ; 
mix with it one-quarter cup of brandy, one-half of a 
grated nutmeg and the juice and sliced rind of one 
lemon. Now stir it gradually into one-half cup of boil- 
ing water and simmer it for a moment only. 

CARAMEL SAUCE. 

Stir a cup of sugar continuously in a saucepan over a 
good fire until melted and lightly browned ; then add 
one-half cup of boiling water and boil two minutes, 
stirring all the time. Remove and serve. 

MOLASSES SAUCE. 

Moderately boil one cup of molasses fifteen or twenty 
minutes; add one tablespoonful of vinegar or strained 
lemon juice, a heaping tablespoonful of butter and a 
tiny pinch of salt ; add one egg, well beaten ; stir it 
well and boil a few minutes longer, 

CREAM SAUCE. 

Put a pint of milk to boil in a saucepan on the stove. 
Break into a vessel two whole raw eggs, add one ounce 
of flour, half an ounce of cornstarch, and three ounces 
of powdered sugar, beating the whole well together 
with a spatula for three minutes. If the milk be boil- 
ing, add it gradually to the preparation, stirring con- 
tinually for two minutes ; return the whole to the sauce- 
pan, place it on the stove, and stir briskly till it comes 



244 The Complete Cook Book. 

to a boil, then remove, and add immediately a teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla flavoring. Strain the sauce through a 
sieve into a sauce bowl, and serve. 

HAKD SAUCE. 

This is made simply by stirring together to a light 
cream two cups of pounded loaf sugar to half of a large 
cup of sweet butter. It may be flavored according to 
taste. For cream and plain batter pudding it may be 
thinned with a few spoonfuls of boiling water and 
flavored with vanilla. Nutmeg is the best flavor for 
apple pudding. For rice puddings a little lemon juice 
or wine may be added. 

WATER SAUCE. 

Rub together one tablespoonf ul of flour and one table- 
spoonful of melted butter; stir into one and one-half 
cups of boiling water and boil fifteen minutes; add a 
pinch of salt and one-half cup of white sugar and boil 
fire minutes more. Now pour this boiling liquid over 
one well-beaten egg and stir quickly and continuously 
and cook a few moments longer. Remove, and flavor 
to your taste. Clear sauce is made by this same recipe, 
and leaving out the egg. If you wish milk sauce, sim- 
ply add one pint of milk instead of water. 

WINE SAUCE. 

The best recipe for a wine sauce which I have ever 
seen, is a French one given in Mrs. Henderson's cook 
book. Put two yolks and one whole egg into a stew- 
pan, with a scant half-teacupful of sugar; beat them 
well for a few minutes, then put the saucepan into 
another containing boiling water over the fire ; beat the 
eggs briskly with the egg whisk while you gradually 
pour in a scant half-teacupful of sherry. When the 
sherry is all in the egg will begin to thicken ; then 
take it from the fire and add the juice of a quarter of 
a lemon. 



The Complete Cook Book. 245 

PEACH COBBLEES OF A HUNDRED YEARS 

AGO. 

Peel and stew a quart of peaches until nearly done; 
sweeten with one and one-half pints of sugar and boil a 
little longer, stirring often. When almost cool line a 
deep pie pan with paste and pour in your peaches. Do 
not cut them off the pits, as the pit gives the pie a 
good flavor. Cut a generous tablespoonful of butter in 
bits and strew over it, and cover with a top crust and 
bake. Save out some of the syrup in which the peaches 
were boiled and a little of the peach chopped flne to 
pour over the pie when done. Serve with honey. 

FROZEN CUSTARD. 

To one quart of milk allow six to eight eggs, yolks 
and whites beaten separately. Put the milk in a double 
boiler, and while it is coming to a boil beat the yolks 
with one and a half cups of sugar until very light. 
When the milk has reached boiling point, remove from 
the fire and allow it to cool five minutes, then pour it 
very hot over the eggs and sugar. Wash the boiler, re- 
turn the custard and stir over the fire until quite thick. 
Add a dash of black pepper and strain through a wire 
sieve. When cold flavor with vanilla to taste and 
freeze. 

SILVY'S SWEET POTATO CUSTARD. 

Boil until done one pint of sweet potatoes, and while 
still hot add to them one-half pint of butter and mash 
we21. Now add one-half pint of rich milk and press ii, 
through a colander. Cream the yolks of four eggs 
with one cup of sugar, and add to [the potatoes ; flavor 
with nutmeg and one-quarter cup of brandy; then add 
the whites of four eggs beaten to a high froth. Bake in 
a pie pan lined with paste and without a top crust. 
When done sift powdered sugar over the top. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

Let one quart of sweet milk come to a boil; have the 
yolks of four eggs and the whites of two beaten very 



246 The Complete Cook Book. 

light, with four tablespoonfuls of sugar, and over this 
pour the hot milk, and stir together; then return it to 
the stove until it thickens. When cool flavor with 
vanilla and add the whites of two eggs, well beaten, 
with one tablespoonf ul of powdered sugar. 

GEANDMOTHER'S SNOW CUSTARD. 

One and one-half tablespoonfuls of gelatine, cover 
with one-half cup of cold water until dissolved; then 
add one cup of boiling water and stir until it is thor- 
oughly dissolved. Sweeten with one-quarter cup of 
sugar and flavor with the juice of two lemons. Strain 
and set in the ice box until it congeals. Pour a rich 
boiled custard in a glass bowl. When your gelatine is 
hard beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and 
mash the gelatii^e with a fork in small pieces and whip 
it in the stiff egg white; then pour it on top of the 
boiled custard and serve. 

ITALIAN CUSTARD. 

Italian custard is delicious, and the novice may pre- 
pare it. Allow one egg to each person; beat the yolka 
to a cream and add sugar and lemon juice to taste, 
beating all the while. The eggs should thicken like 
cream. Put this into custard glasses. Beat the whites 
to a stiff froth and when perfectly stiff, whip in a little 
currant jelly and beat until evenly colored. Heap this 
upon the custard in the glasses. Set in the ice box and 
serve very cold. 

CREOLE ORANGE CUSTARD. 

The juice of six large oranges, strained and sweet- 
ened; stir over a slow fire until the sugar is thoroughly 
dissolved, taking off the scum. When nearly cold add 
the yolks of six eggs well beaten and a pint of milk, 
which has been boiled. Stir all until thickened. Serve 
in glasses, beating the whites of the eggs with two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar to each egg, and placing over 
each glass. 



The Complete Cook Book. 247 

NICE BOILED CUSTARD. 

To every quart of railk, allow six eggs and a cup of 
white sugar. Set the milk to hoil ; beat the whites of 
the eggs with a half- cup of sugar, and drop into the 
boiling milk for two minutes; then with a skimmer 
remove the boiled whites, and put on a dish to cool. 
When the whites are taken off stir into the milk the 
yolks and sugar, previously well beaten up together. 
Add rose, lemon, or peach-leaf flavoring. Run this 
through a sieve into the bowl you expect to serve it in ; 
then pile up the whites on the custard. The whites can 
be boiled without beating them with sugar. 

ORANGE CHARLOTTE. 

One-third box gelatine, one-third cup cold water, one- 
third cup boiling water, one cup sugar, juice of one 
lemon, one cup orange juice and pulp, three eggs, 
(whites). Line a mould or bowl with lady-fingers or sec- 
tions of oranges. Soak the gelatine in cold water till 
soft. Pour on the boiling water, add the sugar and the 
lemon juice. Strain and add the orange juice and pulp 
with a little of the grated rind. Cocl in a pan of ice 
water. Beat the whites of the eggs stiff, and when 
the orange jelly begins to harden beat it till light. 
Add the beaten whites, and beat together till stiff 
enough to drop. Pour into the mould. One pint of 
whipped cream may be used instead of the whites of 
the eggs, or it may be piled on the top after the char- 
lotte is removed from the mould. 

CRISPED ^BANANAS WITH CREAMED. RICE. 

Here is a recipe for making bananas : Boil the re- 
quired quantity of rice in an abundance of water (one 
pound to one gallon); strain, dry; add a cream made 
as follows: to a liaison of egg yolks add (whipped) 
boiling cream until it is of a proper thickness; flavor 
and sweeten to suit; peel, flour and fry in very hot fat 
the required number of bananas ; dry on napkin ; put 
rice "en forme" on chopping dish, arrange bananas 
across, dust with powdered sugar, surround with border 



248 The Complete Cook Book. 

of whipped cream ; on forms made for the same, place 
candied fruits. Serve immediately to prevent cream 
from melting. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. 

One quart of sweet cream, the yolks of four eggs, 
beaten together with a cupful of sugar; dissolve half 
an ounce of gelatine in half a teacupful of warm water; 
when it is dissolved stir in a pint of boiling hot cream j 
add the beaten yolks and sugar ; cook all together until 
it thickens ; then remove from the fire ; add the other 
pint of cold cream, whipped to a stiff froth, adding a 
little at a time, beating hard ; season with lemon 01 
vanilla, whip the whites of the eggs for the top; dip 
the mould in cold water before filling; set it in a cold 
place; to this could be added chocolate, peaches or any 
other seasonable fruit. 

BLANC MANGE. 

Pour one cup of boiling water over an ounce of patent 
gelatine and boil until dissolved, stirring constantly. 
Then squeeze the juice of a lemon upon a cupful of 
fine white sugar ; stir this into a quart of rich cream 
and a cupful of sherry wine; when it is well mixed, 
add the dissolved gelatine, stir all well together, pour 
into moulds previously wet with cold water; set the 
moulds upon ice, let them stand until their contents are 
hard and cold, then serve with sugar and cream or a 
nice sauce. 

BLANC MANGE— VERY FINE. 

Dissolve one box gelatine in two quarts of milk, let 
stand for two hours. Boil six almonds in the milk. 
Strain through a sifter while this is being boiled. 
Pound together in a mortar two handfuls blanched 
almonds and half a cupful granulated sugar. Stir into 
the boiled milk. Add one tablespoonful of vanilla, and 
sweeten to .your tasta 



The Complete Cook Book. 249 

CORNSTARCH BLANC MANGE. 

Stir together two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, half 
a cup of sugar, the juice and a little of the grated rind 
of one lemon ; braid the whole with cold water enough 
to dissolve well. Then pour boiling water over the 
mixture, stirring meanwhile, until it becomes trans- 
parent. Allow it to bubble a few minutes longer, pour 
into moulds, and serve cold with cream and sugar. 

APPLE COMPOTE. 

Make a syrup of three-quarters of a pound of sugar 
and a cup of water; let it boil while you are paring 
and taking out the cores of six nice sour apples. Throw 
them into the syrup and let them boil for half an hour, 
or until transparent. Pour into a glass or china dish, 
and serve for a lunch or tea. They are nice wheu 
served warm. 

APPLE SOUFFLE. 

Peel and core one and one-half pounds of tart 
apples and boil in a very little water with rind of half 
a lemon, until tender; then pour off water and beat 
with a silver fork until no lumps remain ; boil two 
ounces of rice in one- half pint of milk until soft; add 
yolks of three eggs ; pile the rice in a circle around a 
dish; beat two ounces of sugar with the apples and put 
in the center of the rice ; scatter one ounce of crystallized 
cherries over the apples; whisk whites of eggs to strong 
froth; put over all, sprinkle with powdered sugar; 
brown in hot oven and serve warm. 

A FRUIT DESSERT. 

Take red raspberries, strawberries or currants and 
water in equal portions and add to this sugar, citron 
and cinnamon to taste; cook thirty to forty minutes, 
then put it through a colander; add sago or rice flour 
to thicken; add some finely chopped almonds; cook 
again twenty minutes; pour into jelly moulds and serve 
cold with thick cold cream. If fresh fruit is not to be 
had, preserved fruit will answer with less sugar. 



250 The Complete Cook Book. 

COMPOTE OF APPLES. 

Make a syrup with one cup of water, one cup of 
sugar and one- inch stick of cinnamon. Boil ten min- 
utes and skim. Have ready eight sour apples peeled 
and cored. Place them in the syrup, cover the stew- 
pan and let them cook slowly until nearly done. Then 
lift the apples carefully into a baking dish, boil the 
syrup again until jellied, pour it over the apples and 
set into the oven until clear and slightly browned. 
Cover with whipped cream and little bits of currant 
jelly. They may be served either hot or cold as pre- 
ferred. 

APRICOT MOULD. 

Ingredients: One can of apricots, one wineglass of 
sherry, one ounce of gelatine, whipped cream. Drain 
the apricots on a sieve and reduce the syrup to half its 
quantity by boiling. Pass the fruit through a sieve 
and mix it with the syrup. Add the wineglass of 
sherry and the dissolved gelatine. Pour into the mould 
with open center, and when set turn out and fill center 
with whipped cream. 

SYLLABUB. 

Take the juice of a large lemon and the yellow rind 
pared thin ; one glass of brandy, two glasses of white 
wine, and a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 
Put these ingredients into a pan, and let them remain 
one night ; the next day add a pint of thick cream, and 
the whites of two eggs beaten together ; beat them all 
together to a fine froth, and serve in jelly glasses. 

STRAWBERRIES WITH ORANGE. 

Just before serving the berries cut one orange in 
small pieces and mix lightly with berries. It gives a 
delicate flavor to a dish which is nearly perfect in itself. 

LEMON BUTTER. 

Two large lemons or three small ones, six eggs and 
two cups of sugar. Grate yellow part of lemon, squeeze 



The Complete Cook Book. 251 

out the juice, and be careful to take out the seeds; beat 
eggs, then add sugar and stir thoroughly together; 
place it on the fire, and when it first commences to pulp 
up, give five minutes to cook the eggs; put the sauce- 
pan in a vessel of water — it is the safest and easiset 
way ; stir constantly to prevent scorching. 

WHIP SYLLABUB. 

One pint of sweet cream, six ounces of double refined 
powdered sugar, one- half cup of white wine, strained 
juice and grated rind of one lemon; beat well together; 
put gelatine in glasses and fill with the foam as fast as 
it rises. 

SPECIAL WINE JELLY. 

Take one quart water, two and one-half pounds 
sugar, one-half pound gelatine, the juice and grated 
rind of eight lemons, two sticks of cinnamon, one-half 
tumbler of whole, allspice two quarts sherry wine, 
put in kettle, whip the whites of eight eggs and add to 
it; throw in the egg shells, put on fire and let come to 
a boil; then add one pint of cold water and filter. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Apple charlotte is a very dainty way to serve apples. 
Pare and cook six apples until tender; strain through a 
colander and sweeten a little. Dissolve one-half box 
of gelatine in a half -pint of water and add to the hot 
apples ; stir well, and add a teaspoonful of sherry. Set 
the bowl in a pan of cracked ice and stir until it begins 
to thicken. Whip a pint of cream and add to the apple 
slowly. Mould into cups and serve with boiled custard. 

ORANGE CREAM. 

One-third box phosphate gelatine, and one cupful of 
cold water; soak for one hour, or until dissolved. Then 
add one cupful of strained orange juice, one teaspoonful 
of orange extract and sweeten to taste. Beat this all 
well together and add the stiff-beaten whites of three- 
eggs, two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, one and 



252 The Complete Cook Book. 

one-quarter cups of cream, whipped stiff, and three 
tablespoonfuls more of sugar. Pour into a pretty glass 
bowl and set on ice until Hrm. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

One-third bc>x of gelatine; cover with cold water and 
; let it soak halEanhour; then add one-quarter eup of 
milk and set in a pan of hot water over the fire until 
thoroughly dissolved. Now take one pint of cream 
(■which must be set in salt and ice some time before 
using) and whip it up very stiff. Sift into the whipped 
cream three-quarters cup of powdered sugar; then add 
one tablespoonf ul of vanilla and one-quarter cup of 
sherry. Strain the dissolved gelatine into the cream. 
Stir gently from the bottom and sides of the bowl until 
it begins to thicken ; then pour into a mould lined with 
lady-fingers and set away in .the ice box. 

BAKED SWEET APPLES. 

Select nice sweet apples, wipe them well, fill a dish 
nearly to the top with the apples, first quartering and 
coring them, but do not pare them. Set the vessel into 
a kettle of water or steamer, and steam until nearly 
soft ; then place the vessel containing the apples in 
oven, covering same with plate. Let them bake until 
the juice is nearly absorbed; take out and serve with 
milk, cream, or whipped cream. 

APPLES WITH RICE. 

Core and peel neatly six sound, fine Newtown apples. 
Put into a saucepan with a gill of water and two 
ounces of sugar. Place it on a hot stove, put the lid 
on, and let cook for ten minutes. Meanwhile boil four 
ounces of rice in a pint and a half of milk, with half a 
saltspoonful of salt. Flavor it with six drops of orange 
flower water, and let cook for twelve minutes. Place 
the cooked apples in a square tin pan, pour the boiled 
rice over them, and put into a moderate oven for ten 
minutes. Then have a hot dessert dish ready, and with 
a tinned cake turner dress them carefuly on the dish, 



The Complete Cook Book. 253 

decorating the sides with the rice. Should a pyramidal 
shape be desired, place three apples in the center, two 
on top of these, and the last one above them all, then 
fill up the empty space around them with the rice, and 
serve with half a pint of vanilla syrup in a separate 
sauce bowl. The sauce is made thus : Put two pounds 
of granulated sugar into a saucepan with one quart of 
cold water, and set it on the hot stove. Stir well for 
two minutes; add two vanilla beans split in halves, and 
boil for ten minutes longer. Remove from the fire; 
strain through a sieve into another vessel, and use 
when required. This syrup, when cold, may be poured 
into bottles, and if corked tightly and put away in a 
cool place, will keep in good condition for a month at 

BAKED BANANAS. 

Strip off one-third of the skin of each banana and 
with a spoon loosen the remainder of the skin around 
the fruit. Arrange in a baking pan with the stripped 
side uppermost. On each banana place a piece of but- 
ter the size of a walnut cut in small bits, and sprinkle 
with one teaspoonful of water for each banana, and 
bake about twenty minutes. 

BAKED BANANAS. 

Peel and divide them once each way and lay them 
in a baking dish. Pour over them the following syrup : 
One tablespoonful of sugar, one-half tablespoonful of 
lemon juice, a tiny pinch of salt and a teaspoonful of 
butter to each banana; add water just to show among 
the slices ; bake in a quick oven fifteen minutes. 

PINEAPPLE HASH. 

Select a large, ripe pineapple ; cut off the top three 
inches thick, then scoop out the inside^ being careful 
not to break the rind ; take out the core and chop the 
pulp coarsely; add three bananas and two oranges 
sliced thin ; chop all into bits ; sweeten with one cup of 
powdered sugar, then stuff the pineapple hull with this 
mixture; cover with grated cocoanut and lay the cover 
on. Serve in punch glasses. 



254 The Complete Cook Book. 

BAKED QUINCES. 

Quinces are very delicious baked. After a thorough 
washing and coring, parboil until almost tender, then 
arrange jn a baking pan, fill the centers with sugar 
and a bit of butter, pour around them the water in 
which they were parboiled and continue baking until 
done. Serve warm. 

TAPIOCA WITH APPLES OR PEACHES. 

Take one cup of tapioca, cover it with cold water and 
set on the back of the stove until it is thoroughly dis- 
solved ; when it becomes starchy add one quart of boil- 
ing water, a pinch of salt, one teaspoonful of vanilla, 
and sweeten to taste ; cover the bottom of a pudding 
dish with fresh peaches, pears or apples; pour the 
tapioca over the fruit and bake in oven until well done. 

A NICE DESSERT OF APPLES. 

Pare and weigh two pounds green apples. Cut them 
in small pieces, and drop them in a rich syrup, made of 
a pound and a quarter of "A" sugar and a little water. 
As soon as the syrup begins to boil, add the juice and 
grated rind of one large lemon or two small ones. 
Boil till the apples become a solid mass. Turn out in 
a wet mould to stand till cold. Serve on a dish sur- 
rounded with boiled custard, or eat with seasoned 
cream. 

LEMON JELLY. 

One-half box gelatine, one scant cup cold water, 
one pint boiling water, one cup sugar, one-half cup 
lemon juice (large), one square inch stick cinnamon. 
Soak the gelatine in the cold water till soft. Shave 
the lemon rind thin, using none of the white. Steep it 
with the cinnamon in the pint of boiling water ten min- 
utes, then add the soaked gelatine, sugar, and lemon 
juice, and when dissolved strain. 

ITALIAN JELLY, OR FRUIT MOULDED IN 
JELLY. 

One-half box gelatine, one-half cup cold water, rind 
and juice of one lemon, one scant cup of boiling water, 



The Complete Cook Book. 255 

one cup sugar, one pint orange juice, one cup fruit. 
Soak the gelatine in the cold water tillsoft. Shave the 
rind of the lemon, using only the yellow part, and soak 
with the gelatine. Pour on the boiling water; add the 
sugar, lemon juice, and orange juice. Strain through 
a fine napkin into a pitcher, or something from which it 
can be poured. Wet a mould in cold water, and pack 
it in a pan of ice. Put in a layer of jelly half an inch 
deep and harden it, then a layer of candied fruit or 
sections of oranges, fastening each piece of fruit in 
place with a little jelly before adding enough to cover 
the fruit, otherwise the fruit will float. Kepeat till the 
mould is full. Place the pitcher where the jelly will 
keep liquid but not hot, and be sure that every piece of 
fruit is firmly in place before adding more. This may 
be made with lemon or wine jelly. A variety of de- 
signs may be made by arranging different colors of 
fruii; and it well repays one for the trouble, which 
seems very slight after the first attempt. Do not de- 
vote your whole morning to it, but look at it occasion- 
ally while you are doing other things, adding fruit and 
jelly as required ; and before you are conscious of it, 
the dish will be prepared. 

OEANGE BASKETS. 

Cut as many oranges as will be required, leaving 
half the peel whole for the baskets, and a strip half an 
inch wide for the handle. Remove the pulp and juice, 
and use the juice in making orange jelly. Place the 
baskets in a pan of broken ice to keep upright. Fill 
with orange jelly. When ready to serve, put a spoon- 
ful of whipped cream over the jelly in each basket. 
Serve in a bed of orange or laurel leaves. 

ORANGE BASKETS (No. 2). 

With a vegetable cutter cut out several small por- 
tions of the peel in the basket and handle, to give an 
open-work effect, and fill with a mixture of orange, 
wine, and lemon jelly, cut into inch dice and pile 
lightly in the baskets. Or the baskets may be filled 
with Bavarian cream. 



256 The Complete Cook Book. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

One-box gelatine, one-half cup cold water, one cup 
boiling water, juice of one lemon, one cup sugar, one 
pint orange juice. Soak the gelatine in cold water 
until soft. Add the boiling water, the lemon juice, 
sugar, and orange juice. Stir till the sugar is dis- 
solved, and strain. Or use one cup of orange juice and 
one scant pint of boiling water, one lemon, one scant 
cup of sugar, and two tablespoonfuls of brandy. 

GELATINE JELLY. 

Soak one box of Cox's gelatine three hours, in a pint 
of cold water. Then add one pint of cooking wine, the 
rind and juice of one lemon, two pounds white sugar, a 
little mace. Stir these ingredients till the sugar dis- 
solves, then add two quarts of boiling water, gently 
stirring till mixed. Strain at once, through a flannel 
bag twice. This recipe makes the best jelly I ever 
saw. 

FRUIT JELLY. 

Take a canned green gage plum, place it in the cen- 
ter of a small mould and surround it with red candied 
cherries, then pour over it a wine or lemon jelly j set 
away to harden. Serve whipped cream and finely 
chopped almonds with it on a bed of lady fingers. This 
is a very effective as well as delicious dessert. 



The Complete Cook Book. 257 



ICE CREAM. 



ORANGE CEEAM. 

Squeeze the juice of four oranges, and put it with the 
peel of one into a saucepan ; add to this a pint of water, 
half a pound of sugar, and the beaten whites of five 
eggs. Mix carefully, place it over a gentle fire, or it 
will curdle, stir it in one direction until it looks thick; 
strain it through a gauze sieve, and add to it, when 
cold, the yolks of the five eggs, and a cup of cream or 
sweet milk. Set it on the fire until hot enough to cook 
the eggs, or nearly ready to boil them, take it off, stir 
until cold, and set it on ice, or freeze it as you choose. 
This is a delicious cream, with or without freezing, and 
one much used by families in Louisiana. 

RUSSIAN CREAM. 

Cover one-half package of gelatine with cold water; 
when it is dissolved add one-half cup of milk and one- 
half cup of sugar ; heat to boiling point, stirring con- 
stantly, then set aside to cool ; whip one pint of cream 
very light, beat the whites of three eggs stiff, and add 
both to the gelatine, when it has nearly congealed; 
flavor with Vanilla and turn it into 'a pretty glass dish 
and set in a cool place. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

Boil one-half cup of ground coffee in two quarts of 
milk or cream and make it by the frozen custard recipe. 



258 The Complete Cook Book. 

ORANGE ICE CEEAM. 

Peel and squeeze the juice from six oranges, strata 
out the seeds and put it, with the peel, into a saucepan. 
Add one pint of water, two cups of sugar and the 
beaten whites of four eggs. Mix carefully and place 
over a slow fire, or it will curdle. Strain it, and when 
cold add the beaten yolks of four eggs. Return it to 
the fire until the eggs are cooked, then take it o& and 
stir it until cold. Pour this custard into a freezer, and 
when it begins to freeze add one pint of whipped cream 
and freeze rapidly. 

MY MOTHER'S STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Scatter one cup of white granulated sugar over one 
quart of ripe, sweet strawberries; bruise them and let 
them stand for two hours; then mash them and strain 
through a thin, coarse cloth. Scald one pint of milk, 
sweeten it with one cup of sugar, and when cold flavor 
it with vanilla to taste. Then add the juice of the ber- 
ries, and beat in little by little one pint of thick, sweet 
cream. Pour this into a freezer and freeze rapidly. 
When it begins to freeze add one pint of whipped 
cream, and when frozen pack with ice and set in a cool 
place for two hours to ripen. This is delicious. 

GINGER ICE CREAM— ORIGINAL. 

Into a saucepan put one pint of milk, one cup of 
sugar and a pinch of salt. Set the saucepan in hot 
water and thicken the milk with one teaspoonful of 
flour and one egg. Cook it twenty minutes and stir >C 
constantly. When cold beat into it one quart of thici:, 
sweet cream and add one-quarter cupful of preserved 
ginger cut into small pieces, one-quarter cup of crys- 
tallized ginger, chopped rather fine, three tablespoon- 
fuls of ginger syrup and two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 
Freeze and pack in ice and rock salt and set away for 
two hours. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM. 

Make a custard as follows : One pint of milk; place 
on the fire and when it reaches boiling point pour half 



The Complete Cook Book. 259 

of it over four eggs that have been beaten with a cup 
of sugar. Return all to the fire and add the other half 
of the milk with one-half tablespoonful of cornstarch 
wet with a little cold milk. Stir constantly until the 
ordinary consistency of custard. Now put a cupful of 
brown sugar in an iron frying pan, stirring it to dis- 
solve thoroughly and prevent burning, and pour it, hot 
into the custard. When cold add one tablespoonful of 
vanilla and one quart of thick, sweet cream, well beaten, 
and freeze. 

PEACH ICE CREAM. 

Peel and stone a quart of nice, mellow peaches. Put 
them in a bowl with one cup of sugar, and chop very 
fine. Put one quart of milk in a double boiler, and 
while it is heating beat the yolks of six eggs with two 
cups of sugar and add gradually to the milk. Now add 
the frothed whites and cook until a soft custard. Re- 
move from the fire and when cool add the chopped 
peaches and beat in gradually one quart of whipped 
cream. Now freeze it and set aside until ready to 
serve. 

VANILLA MOUSSE. 

Into a double boiler put one quart of cream and allow 
it to cook until the water in the outer kettle boils, then 
remove from the fire and add one cup of sugar. When 
cold flavor with three tablespoonfuls of vanilla and 
freeze. When nearly frozen stir in lightly one pint 
of cream whipped stiff, and continue to freeze until it is 
hard. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

One quart of sweet milk, two cups of sugar, one-half 
cup of grated Baker's chocolate and one-half teaspoon- 
ful of powdered cinnamon. Boil and stir until per- 
fectly smooth, and the chocolate is melted. Strain 
while hot, and when cool flavor with vanilla. When 
ready to freeze stir in one quart of whipped cream. 

MACAROON ICE CREAM. 

Take three dozen macaroons, put them into a tin pan 
and place it in a moderate oven to dry for ten minutes; 



26o The Complete Cook Book, 

remove them and lay on a table to cool ; then put them 
on a biscuit board, and, with a rolling pin, crush and 
roll them fine. Now put them in a bowl, and cover 
with sherry wine, which takes about a pint. Next take 
a quart of cream and a pint of milt ; sweeten it to taste 
and flavor it with vanilla. Pour it into a freezer, and 
when it begins to freeze add the macaroons and sherry 
and turn it until it is well frozen. 

PEACH CREAM. 
To two quarts of rich, sweet cream, add two teacups 
of sugar. Whip to a stiff froth with a patent egg- 
whip, one with a wheel, if convenient ; if not, use the 
common egg-whip. Then peel soft, ripe peaches till 
you have about two quarts. As you peel, sprinkle 
over them two teacups powdered white sugar. Mash 
quickly with a silver tablespoon, or run through a 
colander, if the fruit is not soft and ripe. Then stir 
into the whipped cream, and pour into the freezer, re- 
serving about one-quarter to add when the cream begins 
to sink in freezing. When you add the remainder, 
first cut down the frozen cream from the sides of the 
freezer. Beat hard with a strong iron spoon, whenever 
the freezer is opened to cut down the cream, till it 
becomes too hard. This beating and cutting down is 
required only for the common freezer, the patent freezer 
needing nothing of the kind. Tie over the freezer large 
newspapers, to exclude the air, and set aside till 
wanted. Apricot cream may be made exactly by this 
recipe. 

PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM. 

Whip two quarts rich, sweet cream to a froth, with 
two teacups powdered white sugar. Use a patent egg- 
whip with a wheel, if convenient; if not, use the com- 
mon egg- whip. Grate two ripe pineapples, and add to 
them two teacups white sugar. When well mixed, 
stir into the cream. Pour into the freezer, reserving 
one-quarter. When it begins to freeze, it will sink; 
then beat in the remainder with a strong iron spoon. 
Beat every time the freezer is opened to cut down the 
cream from the sides. Never cook fruit of any sort to 
make cream. 



The Complete Cook Book. 261 

NAPOLITAINE ICE CREAM. 

Take a pint each of vanilla and strawberry ice cream 
and a pint of raspberry water ice, or other fruit ice if 
preferred. Take a brick form holding three pints, put 
at the bottom of this the raspberry water ice, arrange 
the vanilla ice cream on top, and fill up with the straw- 
berry; then cover tightly. Take a pail with broken 
ice mixed with rock salt at the bottom, lay the form 
over and fill up the pail with more ice and salt, and let 
freeze for two hours. Plunge the form in warm water 
to wash off the ice and salt, and unmould the ice cream 
on to a piece of paper laid on the table. Dip knife in 
warm water, cut the brick lengthwise through the cen- 
ter, then each piece into three so that the Napolitaine 
will be divided into six equal-sized square pieces, each 
one having the three kinds of cream and serve. 

RICH ICE CREAM. 

To one quart of cream use the yolks of three eggs. 
Put the cream over the fire till it boils, during which 
time the eggs are beaten up with half a pound of white 
sugar, powdered fine; and when the cream boils, stir it 
upon the eggs and sugar, then let it stand till quite 
cold; then add the juice of three or four lemons. It is 
then ready to be put into the freezer. The heat of the 
cream partially cooks the eggs, and the stirring must 
be continued to prevent their cooking too much. A 
somewhat simpler recipe, given by the confectioners, is 
the following : To half a pound of powdered sugar add 
the juice of three lemons. Mix the sugar and lemons 
together, and then add one quart of cream. This is 
less rich and delicate than the preceding one, but is 
quite rich enough for common use, and some trouble is 
saved. 



262 The Complete Cook Book. 



COFFEE, TEA, CHOCOLATE, ETC. 



ROASTING COFFEE. 

Put one pound of raw coffee in a small frying pan. 
Place it on the stove, and shake and stir occasionally 
for fifteen minutes, or till yellow. Then cover it, and 
increase the heat, and shake till the kernels are all a 
deep cinnamon or chestnut color, and have an oily ap- 
pearance. Be careful that none are burned. Kepp it 
covered, and when still warm (not hot,) add one egg and 
its shell. Beat until every kernel is coated with the 
egg. The egg will dry quickly. It helps to preserve 
the flavor, is the cheapest form in which to use egg for 
clearing, and does not interfere with the grinding of 
the coffee. 

Coffee should be kept in air-tight tin cans, and 
ground only as required. The finer it is ground, the 
stronger will be the extract. 

COFFEE. 

Take equal quantities of Mocha, Java, Laguayra 
and Rio coffee. Have the coffee roasted a chestnut 
brown. To every twelve cups of coffee to be drawn, 
use eighteen heaping tablespoons of the ground coffee. 
Have the water boiling hot, scald the biggin or per- 
colator, put the ground coffee in the upper part, then 
pour on some boiling water for it to draw— about two 
teacups if you are to make twelve cups of coffee. Let 
it stand a few moments and pour again into the upper 
part of the percolator the first drawn coffee. Then add, 
one by one, the cups of boiling water required. It will 
take ten minutes for the coffee to be ready for the table. 
Use the best white sugar, and is winter let the milk 



The Complete Cook Book. 263 

stand twenty-four hours for the cream to rise. Use 
together with rich cream, a cream jug of boiling sweet 
milh. 

HOW TO ROAST COFFEE. 

If practicable, procure a small family coffee-roaster. 
Have three-quarters of a pound of Java, mixed with a 
quarter of a pound of Mocha, place it in the roaster, 
and taking one of the lids from off the stove, put the 
roaster on a moderate fire, and turn the small handle 
constantly and slowly until the coffee becomes a good 
brown color; for this it should take about twenty-five 
minutes ; open the cover to see when it is done, then 
transfer it to an earthen jar, cover it tightly, and use 
when needed ; or, a more simple way, and even more 
effectual, is to take a tin baking dish, butter well the 
bottom, and placing the same quantity of coffee therein, 
put it in a moderate oven to let get a good golden color; 
twenty minutes will suflSce for this, being careful to 
toss it frequently with a wooden spoon, then remove to 
an earthen jar, and cover it well. 

MAKING COFFEE— BY AS OLD COFFEE- 
MAKER. 

One of the hardest things to get is a cup of good 
coffee. In Europe, when I was over there some fifteen 
years ago serving as maitre d 'hotel, it was the excep- 
tion to get a cup of poor coffee. The reason was sim- 
ple : Every morning the coffee was roasted fresh, and 
from the newly roasted bean the coffee was made. 
You have no idea of the difference between coffee made 
in this way and that made from the bean roasted one 
week, if not for a longer time. In the former case the 
aroma in the coffee is retained, in the latter it is lost to 
a large degree. 

COFFEE A LA FRANCAI8E. 

The coffee made from this formula received the prize 
at Paris Exposition. To two-thirds of a pound of 
bestJI roasted Java coffee mix one-third of a pound of 
best roasted Mocha coffee. The coffee must be freshly 



264 The Complete Cook Book. 

roasted, and it would be best to roast it yourself. Put 
same in an air-tight jar or crock until needed. For 
each person take one tablespoonful of this mixture and 
grind it in a mill — don't have it too fine. Take a 
clean French coffee pot, put the grounds on the filter of 
pot' and cover filter with strainer, and for each table- 
spoonful of coffee used, pour over gradually four ounces 
of boiling water — be sure it is boiling. When all the 
water has slowly passed through the filter, put on the 
cover. Allow the coffee pot to stand on the back of 
stove a few minutes to infuse slightly, but ^ot to boil. 
Serve. The yolk of eggs can be used if desired; it is 
very important to follow the exact time and propor- 
tions. 

SADIE'S COFFEE. 

To make good coffee there are almost as many recipes 
as there are persons using the beverage. Each has a 
way of preparing it, acquired more or less from experi- 
ence, which is believed to be the best and only way to 
make coffee. Try either one of the methods given here 
and I think you will be satisfied: Coffee should be 
freshly roasted and ground for use. When coffee has 
been roasted some days before use it should be heated 
through in the oven previous to use. (1) Pour boiling 
water on the coffee in the pot and place on the stove. 
Just as soon as it comes to a boil, or as soon as four or 
five bubbles rise, take it off the fire and pour out a tea- 
cupful and return it. Set the pot on the stove for a 
minute or so and pour gently over the top one teacupful 
of cold water. Let all stand a minute longer and it 
will pour off bright and clear. The cold water, by 
reason of its greater density, sinks and carries the 
grounds with it to the bottom of the pot. (2) This 
method is pronounced excellent and the coffee is not 
boiled. In the first place, make a funnel-shaped bag 
out of pure white flannel, sew this on to a wire, so that 
it can be secured in the mouth of the pot. Put inside 
the bag one teaspoonful of ground coffee for every cup 
you wish to obtain, and one over for the bag. Pour 
into this boiling water, one teacupful for every full 
spoonful of grounds; let this filter through the bag into 



The Complete Cook Book. 265 

the pot or vessel beneath. When the water has all 
passed through, if the coffee is not black enough, re- 
peat the operation once more, and then remove the pot 
or ::^ssel, and let it stand near the fire to keep hot, but do 
not let it come to a boil, as the whole thing will be 
spoiled by the process. 

COFFEE-BOILED. 

Take six heaping tablespoonfuls of finely ground 
coffee, moisten it with a half -cup of cold water, add one 
egg shell, crushed, or a teaspoonful of the white of egg, 
(too much weakens the coffeee) ; turn this mixture into 
an ordinary tin pot, pour over it one quart of freshly 
boiled water, put the lid on the pot and bring quickly 
to a boil ; boil one minute, remove the lid, stir down 
the grounds, add a half -cup of cold water, and stand it 
on the back part of the range to settle. Have your 
table coffee pot filled with boiling water to heat. If it 
be a cold morning, have also your coffee cups heated. 
Rack the coffee into the table pot, and serve immedi- 
ately. 

COFFEE BY PERCOLATION. 

Put four tablespoonfuls of finely ground coffee in the 
top of your percolator, press it down, cover it with the 
upper sieve, and pour through a little at a time one 
quart of freshly boiled water, covering the pot closely 
each time, while the water is dripping through. Serve 
immediately. This coffee must not be boiled, and is 
not good if kept waiting. It is more healthful, more 
economical, and has a finer flavor than boiled coffee. 

HOW TO MAKE BLACK COFFEE, 

Take six light tablespoonfuls of coffee beans from the 
jar; grind them in a mill, neither too coarse not too 
fine. Have a well-cleaned French coffee pot, put the 
coffee on the filter, with the small strainer over, then 
pour on a pint and a half of boiling water, little by 
little, recollecting, at the same time, that too much 
care cannot be taken to impress on those making the 
coffee, the necessity of having the water boiling thor- 



266 The Complete Cook Book. 

oughly, otherwise it were as useless to attempt the feat 
as to try and raise musk-melons at the North Pole, 
notwithstanding that the coffee be of the very first 
quality. When all the water is consumed put on the 
cover, and let infuse slightly, but on no account must it 
boil again; then serve in six after-dinner cups. Coffee 
should never be prepared more than five minutes before 
the time to serve. 

CAFE NOIR A L' ALEXANDER THE GREAT. 

Put in an earthen pot on the hot range three pints of 
cold water; when boiling, immediately add four and a 
half ounces of freshly ground coffee, and as soon as the 
coffee has been added, put the pot on the corner of the 
stove to rest for three minutes. Have a piece of hot, 
red (very red) charcoal the size of a small banana, 
plunge it into the coffee. (If no charcoal is at hand, a 
piece of red stove coal will answer.) Let rest again for 
three minutes; then you will see a heavy foam appear- 
ing at the surface of the coffee; thoroughly skim it off 
with a skimmer. Then carefully and gently pour it 
into a hot coffee-pot, and send to the table with six 
small, hot demi-tasses, accompanied with six ponies of 
old Renauldt cognac. I would recommend that, after 
the scum has been removed, the coffee should be 
handled as gently as possible, so that all undesirable 
elements will remain at the bottom. 

CAFE AU LAIT (COFFEE WITH MILK). 

Have a clean French coffee filter ready on the hot 
range; place in it four and a half ounces of freshly 
ground coffee, then gradually pour over it, all around, 
half a pint of boiling water; let rest for three minutes, 
then gradually pour over two pints and a half more of 
boiling water (taking special care that, under no cir- 
cumstances, should it be allowed to boil again after the 
water has been poured over). When all dripped down, 
pour it into a hot coffee pot. Take three pints of good, 
freshly and thoroughly heated milk (but do not boil it), 
pour it into a hot pitcher, send to the table with six hot 
cups a cafe au lait, pouring into each cup half coffee 
and half milk. 



The Complete Cook Book. 267 

CAFE AU LAIT A LA ST. GOTTAEDO. 

Place in an earthen pot on the hot range two quarts 
of very fresh milk, and let it heat until near the boiling 
point, then immediately add two and a half ounces of 
fresh, finely ground coffee. ShuflBe the pot in contrary 
directions until it comes to a boil ; then let it rest for 
three minutes. Strain it through a clean napkin into a 
hot serving pitcher, and serve with six cafe au lait cups. 

TEA— GEEEN AND BLACK. 

Scald your teapot always before putting in the tea; 
throw out the scalding water and allow a teaspoonful 
of tea to each person expected to drink it; turn on half 
a pint of boiling water at first, and let it steep — green 
tea requires about five minutes, black tea ten minutes. 
After this, pour on more boiling water, according to 
the number of persons. Mixed black and green tea is 
considered a more healthful drink than green tea alone. 

ICED TEA. 

Allow a cupful of cold water to a teaspoonful of tea. 
Place the tea in an earthenware or granite dish (never 
use tin), cover with the cold water, allow it to stand, 
well covered, three or four hours, and then strain 
through a cheese cloth. Place cracked ice in the 
glasses, fill with the tea and let each person add sugar 
to taste. Many persons find a slice of lemon or a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice a very agreeable addition, and 
the occasional use of a shaker gives pleasing variety 
and excellence. The advantage of tea made by this 
method is that it possesses none of the bitterness so 
often apparent when made with the boiling water infu- 
sion. The cold water extracts the flavor of the leaves, 
but none of their astringent qualities, no matter how 
long they are allowed to stand together without strain- 
ing. 

TO MAKE CHOCOLATE. 

Scrape the best chocolate ; allow for each square, or 
large spoonful of ground chocolate, half a pint of milk 



268 The Complete Cook Book. 

or milk and Trater; let it boil a few momenta, then put 
it on the back part of the stove, and it is ready when 

wanted. 

TO MAKE CHOCOLATE ANOTHER WAY. 

Scrape or grate the chocolate, take a ^leaping table- 
spoonful for each cup to be served; allow half a pint of 
milk or milk and water to each heaping spoonful of 
chocolate. Make the milk hot, rub the chocolate to a 
smooth paste with the cold milk, then stir it in the 
boiling milk. Let it boil up once; cover it and set it 
back in a place where it will keep warm. It is now 
ready to serve. Toasted biscuit or rolls should be 
served with it. Sweeten the chocolate unless you use 
the prepared chocolate. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Put one square of Baker's chocolate, two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of hot water, and a 
pinch of salt in a small saucepan, and boil until 
smooth ; stir constantly ; add gradually one pint of boil- 
ing water, and when ready to serve add one pint of hot 
milk. Use all milk and two squares of chocolate, if 
liked richer; or thicken with one teaspoonful of corn- 
starch wet in a little cold water, and boil five minutes 
before adding the milk. 



The Complete Cook Book. 269 



PRESERVING, CANNING, ETC. 



HINTS ON PRESERVING. 

Preserving kettles should be broad and shallow, -with 
a handle on each side. If you wish to preserve in small 
quantities, use a small kettle. A charcoal furnace is 
most desirable in warm weather, as you can put it 
where you like, and thus avoid the heat of the kitchen. 
Slow, gentle boiling is absolutely necessary in preserv- 
ing and pickling. 

FORMULA FOR PRESERVING. 

Formula 1. — To make the French preservative 
elixir and medicated paper, for preserving fruits, vege- 
tables, fish and eggs for months by simply wrapping or 
coating them. — Melt five ounces of stearine at a gentle 
heat (don't get it hot or boiling), then stir in thoroughly 
two ounces of carbolic acid, after which add five ounces 
of melted paraffine (don't throw in the wax, but melt it 
first) ; stir the whole well together until it cools (taking 
vessel with mixture off from stove when stirring the 
last time), and seal tight in jars or crocks until ready 
for use. If you wish to make the medicated paper, 
melt this mixture again at a gentle heat, and take 
quires of white or manilla wrapping paper and apply 
with a brush cover paper. If you wish simply to use 
the elixir to coat vegetables and eggs with, melt the 
mixture as described and apply with brush to the out- 
side; never apply while hot, but when it is just cool 
enough to use without being waxy or too gummy. 

Formula 2. — To make preservative paper by the use 
of the French preservative elixir described in Formula 1. 
— Take a quire of paper, opening it flat upon a table, 
going over it quickly with a hot smoothing iron against 



270 The Complete Cook Book. 

which is held a piece of the medicated wax described 
in Formula 1, which, melting, runs down upon the 
paper and is absorbed by it. A little practice will de- 
termine the amount of wax that should be melted off 
from time to time. When the upper sheet is saturated 
it is taken off, and one below is treated in same man- 
ner. This paper will be found very useful in making 
small pipes air-proof, also for tying up the necks of bot- 
tles, covering preserve jars, and for enveloping 
tobacco, eggs, fruits and others substances that require 
to be kept from air, replacing generally tin foil and 
similar substances. The elixir (made as in Formula 
1), when allowed to cool a suflScient time, will make 
this wax. White or manilla sheets may be used. 

TO CAN FRUITS, BERRIES AND TOMATOES 

BY THE HOT AIR GENERATED FROM 

OVEN OP STOVE OR RANGE. 

First select jars that are perfect in every respect, and 
rinse them with hot water, pouring water in slowly 
and shaking around inside of jar gradually, so that the 
jar won't break ; then pack the raw fruit as compactly 
as possible, whole or cut, in the jars up to the first rim 
(working down fruit on each side with a silver plated 
knife or handle of spoon — never use any other metal), 
pour in your hot syrup, filling jars within one inch of 
the top; place tin covers on jars, or a piece of sheet iron, 
or a flat tin with a weight on, to keep cover from coming 
off (but not the lid of jar, as it may scorch) ; then place 
jars in the fruit racks, or in a dripping pan with a little 
warm water in it, and a cloth at the bottom to set jars 
on ; don't let jars touch each other ; set them in a 
moderately hot oven and almost close door of oven; 
then set on full heat and leave in until syrup in jars 
beads on top ; it generally takes from fifteen to thirty 
minutes, according to the condition of the fruit — ^thig 
means from the time you have a good heat in your 
oven. Make syrup as follows: For sweet fruit, one- 
half pound of sugar to three-quarters of a pint of water 
to a quart jar, or five quarts of water to six pounds of 
sugar to a dozen jars; for very sour fruit, three-quarters 
of a pound of sugar to a pint of water, or six quarts of 



The Complete Cook Book. 271 

water to nine pounds of sugar to a dozen quart jara; let 
syrup come to a simmer. After leaving fruit in oven 
as described above, take out the jars and pan from 
oven, leaving the jars in the pan, and pour boiling 
syrup quickly over the fruit in jars; to fill up the jars, 
work down on each side with a silver-plated knife and 
seal jars air-tight. Put fruit in a dark place, and in 
a room with temperature from forty-five to seventy 
degrees. One coflfee-cupful of sugar is a half pound. 
To temper jars before placing them in an oven, allow 
medium hot water to run on the outside of jar slowly 
after fruit is in it for about a minute. 

It is always best to boil your empty jars before can- 
ning, by allowing them to heat up gradually. If the 
oven is very hot, don't fasten the door entirely. A 
good way to seal jars or bottles is to get a bladder and 
fit it snugly over the mouth and sides of the jars and 
seal tightly by using sealing wax or the white of an 
egg or white wax, or you can put a cork into bottles 
and seal with sealing wax, and after it dries, if you tie 
three folds of cotton batting around, it will surely be 
air-tight. When pouring your syrup over the last 
time, overflow jars so as to overflow the air bubbles. 
You can use more or less sugar to make syrup. It is 
best to use a large pan to set jars in, instead of the 
racks in using this method. 

TO TEST TO SEE IF AIR-TIGHT. 

After jars are sealed air-tight, and before putting 
them away, wipe dry around the rubber and lid, stand 
them upside down on white paper for about twenty 
minutes, and if any liquid comes out, take putty and 
fasten all around the rubber and lid, so as to make it 
air-tight; be careful to get the right rubber for each 
jar, and don't use any that are worked down on the 
side. A better way is to tie three folds of cotton bat- 
ting over top of Hd of jar. 

HOW TO SOFTEN EUBBERS AND MAKE 
THEM NEARLY AS GOOD AS NEW. 

Take about one teaspoonf ul of pure ammonia to about 
one pint of water. Drop in rubbers and let stand for 



272 The Complete Cook Book. 

few minutes. If one fits loosely put in two rubbers 
instead. 

THE IMPROVED METHOD OP CANNING 
STRAWBERRIES AND RASPBERRIES BY 
SIMPLY COMPOUNDING A SYRUP- 
NO OTHER BERRIES CAN BE 
DONE THIS WAY. 

First select a nice lot of perfect berries (large ones if 
possible) ; they must be in perfect condition and not too 
ripe. Put them in a colander and let a little water run 
over them, lifting them up now and then, so as to let 
«and run out ; don't allow berries to lay in the water or 
they will become insipid ; then hull them, and to each 
one pound of berries take one-half pound of granulated 
sugar and mix them in layers in a stone crook and let 
stand over night, or from 8 A.M. to 4 P.M., in a cool 
place. See that crock is covered, then skim out berries 
carefully, and put them in another vessel, and to the 
syrup that has formed from that proportion of berries 
and sugar, add another one-half pound of pulverized 
rock candy or one-half pound of sugar; stir well; then 
allow this syrup to come to a boil; when it boils, 
drop in a pinch of soda (this will bring up the impuri- 
ties), skim the syrup clean and then put in that propor- 
tion of syrup about five drops of lemon juice to prevent 
candying. Don't stir after syrup comes to a good boil 
more than is just necessary to prevent it burning, and 
allow this syrup to boil about twenty minutes. While 
syrup is boiling this time put vessel containing the ber- 
ries on back of the stove or range, just to keep warm; 
don't cook or stew them ; have the vessel covered. See 
also that your jars are hot, and when syrup is boilsd 
down as described, fill your hot jars about one-quartei 
full of berries and then pour enough of the boiling 
syrup to cover them ; then put in more berries and then 
more syrup, and so on until jar is filled. See that the 
syrup completely covers the berries ; then place a layer 
of paper, dipped in warm brandy or alcohol, on top of 
liquid, put a layer of cotton batting on the paper and 
seal jars air-tight. As you pack in your berries grad- 
ually as described, work down well on the sides with a 



The Complete Cook Book. 273 

silver-plated knife or handle of spoon, so as to fill the 
jar compactly and let out the air. The rook candy is 
preferable, as it makes the syrup heavier and purer; 
but you can use the sugar instead as described, if you 
prefer. Get the crushed rock candy; it will dissolve 
easier, and is cheaper; don't use any colored rock candy. 
The syrup, made in the proportion mentioned, will be 
more than enough to completely fill one pint jar full of 
whole berries. In using this formula, use pint jars for 
putting in your whole berries; if you use quart jars, 
you must double this quantity. 

For strawberries, berries, and other soft fruits (but 
this does not apply to vegetables), if they are packed in 
jars in layers, and each layer sprayed with alcohol 
from an atomizer, then tie over mouth of the jar a piece 
of mosquito netting, and allow jar to stand not less than 
fourteen and not over twenty-four hours in a cool place 
before canning, they will become hardened and keep 
better. 

Remember that one-half pound of rock candy or the 
one-half pound of sugar that you add is only for the 
quantity of syrup that you get from one pound of ber- 
ries, and the one-half pound of sugar that you add at 
first. So, if you use six pounds of berries and three 
pounds of sugar to make jvAce with, you must add three 
pounds of rock candy or three pounds of sugar for six 
pint jars full of nice berries which have been standing 
on back of stove. You can only keep strawberries and 
raspberries by this method. • 

N, B. — ^You must use my quantity of sugar or rock 
candy, as less will not keep them. You save by this 
method one pound of berries, as you do not boil the 
berries. 

CANNING STRAWBERRIES AND RASPBER- 
RIES. 

First, select nice whole berries (they must not be too 
soft or over- ripe). Wash them if necessary to take out 
the sand. To every one pound or one and one-quarter 
pounds of granulated sugar, add enough water to mois- 
ten sugar thoroughly. From three-quarters to one 
coffee-cup of water is suflBcient; allow syrup to come to 



274 The Complete Cook Book. 

aboil. Drop in a pinch of soda to bring up the im- 
purities — ^skim off the scum arising, and allow syrup to 
boil until it will nearly hair or thread ; then to that 
quantity of syrup put in one pound of choice berries, 
boil slowly for five minutes, take the vessel off the 
stove, place cover on the same; put in a cool dark place 
and allow berries and syrup to get perfectly cold. If 
done in the evening allow to stand until next morning. 
If in the morning allow to stand until evening. Re- 
member they must be kept in a cool place or they will 
ferment, temperature about fifty to seventy degrees. 
Then rinse your jars with hot water. Place your ber- 
ries in jars carefully and compactly, first berries and 
then syrup, and so on until berries come to the first 
screw of jar and overflow with syrup and seal air-tight. 

TO PRESERVE PEACHES. 

Select white clings if you desire to preserve them 
whole. Yellow peaches make the most transparent 
preserve, but cannot always be procured. If white 
clings are convenient, peel and weigh them, and to each 
pound of fruit put one pound of sugar and half a pint 
of water. Put the syrup to boil, clarify it with an 
egg, and as it boils remove the scum. Keep the 
peaches in cold water all the time the syrup is boiling, 
as water keeps the fruit in good color, while leaving it 
exposed darkens it. When the syrup has boiled clear, 
put in the peaches ; let them boil gently for half an 
hour, then take them out on a dish for two hours , put 
them back in the syrup and boil again until they are 
clear; they are then done, and you can put them in 
jars and pour the syrup over them, and cork and seal 
up for future use. 

ANOTHER WAY TO PRESERVE PEACHES. 

Peel, cut and weigh six pounds of peaches; take six 
pounds of fine white sugar, throw the sugar on the 
peaches until they are well covered, and let them stay 
all night. Early in the morning add three pints of 
water, and boil all together for one hour. Skim care- 



The Complete Cook Book. 275 

fully, and then take the peaches out on a large dish, still 
keeping the syrup gently boiling, and skimming it as 
it boils. Lay the peaches in the sun on dishes for at 
least two hours to harden. Taking the fruit out of the 
syrup a few times improves it, giving it firmness and 
transparency. Now replace the peaches in the syrup, 
and boil gently until they are clear. Cut peaches are 
much more easily kept than peaches preserved whole, 
but they are not so highly flavored. Cut fruit does not 
require so much boiling as whole fruit; this should be 
remembered in preserving. 

PEACH MANGOES. 

Steep some large freestone peaches in brine for two 
days, then wipe each peach carefully, and cut a hole in 
it just suflScient to allow the pit t j come out ; then 
throw them into cold vinegar until you make the 
stuffing, which is to fill up the cavity occupied by the 
pit. Take fresh white mustard seed which has been 
wet with vinegar, and allowed to swell a few hours, 
scraped horse radish, powdered ginger, a few pods of 
red pepper, a few small onions, or, better still, a clove 
of garlic. Mix all with vinegar, and add half as 
much chopped peach. Stuff the peaches hard with this 
mixture, replace the piece cut out, and tie it up tight 
with pack-thread. Boil a quart of vinegar for each 
dozen peaches; season it with the same spices as the 
stuffing. Boil the spices in a small bag, and then put 
in the peaches and let them scald ten or fifteen minutesj 
just long enough to be thoroughly hot all through. 
Place the peaches in jars, and pour scalding vinegar 
well'spiced over them — the vinegar must cover them ; 
add at the top a tablespoonful of salad oil. Cover the 
jar tight by tying leather over it. 

PEESERVED PEARS. 

Take acid pears for preserving. If the fruit is small 
preserve it whole, if large cut in halves, peel the pears 
with a silver knife, dropping them into cold water as 
fast as they are peeled to prevent discoloraton. When 
the fruit is all preparbd allow a pound of sugar to each 



276 The Complete Cook Book. 

pound of peara. Put the fruit over the fire with just 
enough water to cover it, and boil it gently until it is 
tender enough to yield to a slight pressure of the 
fingers; meantime put the sugar into the preserving 
kettle, adding to each pound a pint of cold water, and 
to every five pounds of the sugar, add the thinly pared 
yellow rind and juice of two lemons, and two ounces of 
green ginger root scalded and scraped, boil the syrup 
and remove all scum as it rises ; when the pears are 
boiled, as directed above, put them into the syrup, and 
boil them until they look clear; when the pears are 
thoroughly penetrated with the syrup, remove the pre- 
serving kettle from the fire, allow the preserves to cool, 
and put them in glasses or jars as directed in preserves 
and jams. 

STRAWBEREY SUN PRESERVES. 

Prepare as for other preserves, using a pound of 
sugar and one cup of water to a pound of fruit. Let 
the sugar and water boil and skim it well ; when cold 
pour over the berries in a deep platter ; cover with glass 
and set in the sun until the syrup jellies, usually about 
three days. Seal as you would other preserves, unless 
you are fortunate enough to have the new preserving 
jar that closes automatically, and keep in a cool place. 

TO MAKE PRESERVES OF CITRON OR 
WATERMELON RIND. 

After the citron is peeled weigh it; to each pound 
allow a pound of sugar, an ounce of green ginger root, 
a lemon, and half a pint of water ; scrape the ginger 
root and tie it in a clean cloth with the yellow rind of 
the lemon pared very thin; squeeze the juice of the 
lemon and strain it; put the sugar and water over fire 
and let them heat together and begin to boil, removing 
all scum as it rises ; when the syrup is free from scum, 
put in the citron rind, ginger and lemon peel and juice, 
and boil all together until the citron looks clear, remov- 
ing any scum which may rise. Then let the preserve 
cool in the kettle, put it into glass jars, leaving the 



The Complete Cook Book. 277 

ginger and lemon with it, if their flavor is desired, dis- 
tributing them among the jars of citron. The water- 
melon rind is preserved in the same manner. 

GRAPE PRESERVES. 

Use only ripe grapes. Squeeze out the pulp and 
juice, and put it in a granite kettle over the fire until 
tender enough to remove the seeds easily. Take it off-, 
take out the seeds and put back the pulp with the hulls 
and cook fifteen minutes. Now sweeten to taste with 
sugar and cook fifteen minutes more. If they cook too 
long they will lose their grape flavor. Put in jars and 
seal tight. 

PRESERVED QUINCES. 

Use the orange quinces. Wipe, pare, quarter, and 
remove all the core and the hard part under the core. 
Take an equal weight of sugar. Cover the quinces 
with cold water. Let them come slowly to a boil. 
Skim, and when nearly soft put one-quarter of the sugar 
on the top, but do not stir. When this boils, and 
another part of the sugar, and continue until all the 
sugar is in the kettle. Let them boil slowly until the 
color you like, either light or dark. 

FIG PRESERVES. 

Boil the sugar and water syrup as directed in pre- 
vious recipe. Let the figs be firm, not dead ripe, or 
they will boil to a mass. They should be laid in alum 
the day before they are to be preserved, then taken out, 
washed, and put into the boiling syrup. Boil for three 
hours, or until transparent; then bottle as usual and 
seal up with wax. 

FIG PRESERVES (No. 2). 

Pick the figs fully ripe the evening before. Cut off 
about half the stem, and let them soak all night in 
very weak salt and water. Drain off the salt water in 
the morning and cover them with fresh. Make a thick 
syrup, allowing thiree-quarters pound loaf sugar to each 



278 The Complete Cook Book. 

pound fruit. When it boils, drop the figs carefully in 
and let them cook till they look clear. When done 
take from the fire and season with extract of lemon or 
ginger. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES. 

Cap the berries. Put one and a half pounds sugar to 
each pound fruit. Let them stand twenty -three hours, 
and then boil thirty minutes. 

APPLE PRESERVES. 

To preserve apples through the winter, put a layer 
of dry sand on a shelf, then a layer of apples, and again 
a layer of sand, again a layer of apples and so on. 
Kept in a dry place, the apples will be found to be 
quite good till next June or July. Pears are best kept 
singly on boards, suspended in nets, or attached to lines 
of twine, secured by the stalks, and hung from one side 
of the storeroom to the other. 

TO MAKE ANY KIND OP FRUIT JELLY. 

Wash and drain the fruit, put it in a stone jar, and 
put the jar into a kettle of water over the fire ; let it boil, 
but see that none of the water gets into the fruit. 
When the fruit is tender it will begin to break ; pour it 
now into a flannel bag, but do not squeeze it— that will 
make the jelly cloudy. To each pint of juice strained 
add one pound or one pound and a quarter of white 
sugar and the half of the beaten white of an egg. Boil 
this rapidly, skim but do not stir the syrup, as stirring 
breaks its continuity and prevents its jellying. Boil 
it twenty minutes, and try a little in some cold water 
to find out if it jellies ; if it does not, boil it a little 
longer. Too much boiling or too slow boiling injures 
jelly and makes it ropy. Too much sugar will cause 
jelly to grain; the quantity used must be in accordance 
with the requirements of the fruit, acid fruit requiring 
more sugar and dead ripe fruit less. Red currants 
take more sugar than black currants ; they also take 
more time to boil to a jelly. A little practice and a 
few mistakes will make any one who takes pleasure in 
cooking, a good jelly-maker and preserver. 



The Complete Cook Book. 279 

TO MAKE JELLY PROM ANY KIND OP BER- 
RIES. 
To every one pound of sugar take one pound of ber- 
ries and prepare as follows : Put berries first in a stone 
crock, porcelain or agate vessel. Stand this in a vessel 
of warm water (not hot), allowing water to come up 
about three-fourths of vessel holding fruit and allow 
to boil until berries are well broken and mashed. Then 
take out \ressel from water, strain juices through a piece 
of cheese cloth. If you desire to utilize all the berries 
for jelly, put the berries after the juice is drained off in 
a bag made of cheese cloth, about a cupful at a time, 
and squeeze out all the juice until all are thus treated. 
But if you wish to make a jam from the berries re- 
maining, you can take the berries after you first strain 
off the juice and work them into a jam. Then take 
your sugar in the proportion given (always using the 
best granulated sugar), and put in a dripping pan and 
stand pan in a medium hot oven, opening the door of 
oven every now and then to stir sugar so it will not 
burn. Then boil juice from the berries on top of stove 
about twenty minutes from time it commences to boil. 
Then take sugar out of, oven, pour into juice, and let 
this just come to a boil ; skim off scum quickly, take 
off stove, and fill your hot jars or tumblers as quickly 
as possible. Place paper over jelly on inside of jar, 
first dipping paper in warm brandy. Put a piece of 
cotton batting (not wadding) over paper and seal. This 
latter will prevent all mould. If you find that sugar 
in pan, while in oven, melts on the side, do not be 
alarmed, for when this is poured in the juice, it will 
form in lumps and you can easily remove that. 
Always remove all lumps and impurities in the jelly 
before taking same off the stove. The juice of one 
lemon to every pint of juice before boiling juice will 
add greatly to the flavor. Stir jelly as little as possi- 
ble after adding sugar, as it is liable to candy. 

CRAB APPLE, WILD APPLE, OR PORTER 
APPLE JELLY. 

Wash the fruit j cut into pieces, but do not pare, nor 
remove the seeds; barely cover with cold water. Boil 



28o The Complete Cook Book. 

and mash them until soft. Then drain on a sieve. 
Use the juice only, and do not squeeze the fruit. Boil 
the juice with an equal quantity of sugar, until it jel- 
lies. Peach jelly is made in the same manner. 

QUINCE JELLY. 

Wipe the fruit carefully, and remove all the stems, 
and parts not fair and sound. Use the best parts of the 
fruit for canning or preserving, and the skin, cores, and 
hard parts for jelly. The seeds contain a large portion 
of gelatinous substance. Boil all together, in enough 
water to cover till the pulp is soft. Mash and drain. 
Use the juice only, and when boiling add an equal 
weight of hot sugar, and boil till it jellies in the spoon. 

GRAPE JELLY. 

Select the grapes when not fully ripe. Wash and 
drain, then put them in a preserving kettle, mash well, 
and heat till all the skins are broken, and the juice 
flows freely. Strain, and use the juice only with an 
equal weight of sugar, as for currant jelly. 

CRAB APPLE JELLY. 

This is the best of all apple jellies. Wash the apples, 
cut them up, remove all defects, remove the seeds and 
the blossom end, but do not pare them. Lay them in 
your preserve kettle, and cover them with water; then 
boil them until they are soft, but do not let them mash 
up from too much boiling. Drain off all the water and 
mash the apples with the back of a silver spoon. Put 
this in a jelly bag, and place a deep dish under it to 
collect the juice. To every pint of the juice allow a 
pint of loaf sugar; boil it and skim it. It will be ready 
to dip out into tumblers in half an hour, if you have 
complied with these directions. Always dip jelly out 
with a silver spoon, as any other kind darkens fruit. 
I have seen preserves rendered very dark by putting in 
them a new-tinned dipper. You must be careful of 
these things if you desire your confections to be elegant. 



The Complete Cook Book. 281 

CEANBEREY JELLY. 

One quart of cranberries, one po>und of sugar, one- 
half pint of water. Wash the cranberries and put them 
on with the water to boil for ten minutes, then mash 
and squeeze thi-ough a flannel bag. Return the juice 
to the kettle, add the sugar, boil rapidly and continu- 
ously for about fifteen minutes, or until it jellies, and 
turn eut to cool. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Select currants that have been freshly picked and are 
not too ripe. If they are sandy, wash them, but do not 
stem. Mash a small quantity at a time in a stone jar, 
with a potato masher, squeeze through a flannel bag, 
then strain again without squeezing, that the liquor 
may be perfectly clear. Turn the liquid into a porce- 
lain-lined kettle, stand over a brisk fire. Put the sugar 
into earthen basins, and put in the oven to heat. Boil 
the juice twenty minutes after it begins to boil, then 
stir in hastily the hot sugar, and stir until the sugar is 
dissolved — no longer. Skim thoroughly, bring it 
quickly to a boil again, and boil two minutes. Dip the 
tumblers into hot water, fill them with the boiling 
liquid, and stand away for twenty-four hours to jelly. 
If it is not then suflSciently jellied, cover the tumblers 
with common window glass and stand in the sun several 
days. Then cover with tissue paper, as directed for 
all berry jelly. 

CURRANT JELLY (No. 3). 

Currants should not be over-ripe, nor gathered after 
a rain, as then they are too watery. In New England 
currants are in the best condition about the tenth of 
July. Equal parts of red and white currants, or cur- 
rants and raspberries, make a delicately colored and 
flavored jelly. Pick over and remove the leaves and 
poor fruit, and if gritty wash and drain them, but do 
not stem them. Mash them in a porcelain-lined kettle 
with a wooden pestle, without heating, as that makes 
the jelly darker. Let them drain in a flannel bag over 



282 The Complete Cook Book. 

night. Do. not squeeze them, or the jelly will be 
cloudy. In the morning measure a bowl of sugar for 
each bowl of juice, and heat the sugar carefully in an 
earthen dish in the oven. Stir it often to prevent 
burning. Boil the juice twenty minutes, and skim 
thoroughly. Add the hot sugar, and boil from three 
to five minutes, or till it thickens on a spoon when ex- 
posed to the air. Turn at once into glasses, and let them 
remain in the sun several hours. 

GREEN GRAPE JELLY. 

Gather Catawba grapes before ripening. Pick them 
from the stem, wash them, and put them in a stone jar. 
Set the jar in a kettle of cold water over a hot fire. 
When the juice comes out of the grapes, take the ket- 
tle off, and strain the grapes. To each pint of juice 
put one pound of the best loaf sugar. Boil twenty min- 
utes in the kettle. Ripe grape jelly may be made in 
the same way. 

GRAPE JELLY. 

The chief art in making jelly is to boil it continu- 
ously, slowly and gently. It will not harden well if 
the boiling stops, even for a few moments. To pre- 
serve the true color and flavor of fruit in jellies or jams, 
boil well before adding the sugar; in this way the 
water contained in all fruit juices is evaporated. Heat 
the sugar before adding it. In making grape jelly, 
pick the grapes from their stems, wash them, and put 
them over the fire in a vessel containing a little water, 
to keep them from burning. Stew a few moments; 
mash gently with a silver spoon, strain, and to every 
pint of juice allow one pound of white sugar. After 
the juice comes to the boiling point, boil twenty min- 
utes. 

JAMS. 

Jams are made with whole small fruits, or large fruit 
cut fine, and cooked in an equal weight of sugar. 



The Complete Cook Book. 283 

GEAPE JAM. 

Wash the grapes, and squeeze or pinch the pulp from 
the skins. Boil the pulp until it separates from the 
seeds, and run it through a sieve. Then add the skins 
to the pulp, and boil with an equal weight of sugar 
fifteen minutes. Put into small jars or tumblers, and 
cover with paper. 

CURRANT, RASPBERRY OR BLACKBERRY 

JAM. 

Pick over and mash the fruit; allow one pound of 
sugar to a pound of fruit. Put the fruit and one quar- 
ter of the sugar into a granite or porcelain kettle; when 
boiling, add another quarter of the sugar; boil again, 
add more sugar and when all is used, let it boil till it 
hardens on the spoon in the air. Apples, pears, 
peaches, and quinces should be pared, cut small, and 
treated in the same way. Cooking in only a little 
sugar at a time prevents the fruit from becoming hard. 

STRAWBERRY JAM. 

Cap and wash the berries, and put them on to stew 
with a very small quantity of water. Stir constantly. 
When thoroughly done and mashed to a soft pulp, add 
one pound sugar to each pound fruit. The advantage 
of adding sugar last is that it preserves the color and 
flavor of the fruit. Stew till sufficiently thick, scrap- 
ing constantly from the bottom with a batter-cake 
turner. 

RASPBERRY JAM. 

Wash and pick the berries, boil with a little water, 
mashing and scraping from the bottom as they simmer. 
When reduced to a thick pulp, add one-half pound sugar 
to each pound berries. Stew till very thick, scraping 
constantly from the bottom. Cool in a large bowl, then 
put in a glass jar with screw top. Blackberry, dew- 
berry, and whortleberry jam may be made by the same 
recipe. 



284 The Complete Cook Book. 

APPLE BUTTER. 

Take nine gallons of cider, boil down one-third ; add 
to the boiling cider three gallons of apples that have been 
pared and quartered ; boil rapidly for two hours, so as 
to prevent them from sinking; when they commence to 
sink, stir so as to prevent them from burning; add 
sugar and spice to suit the taste, stir constantly until 
the mass is reduced to a thick, smooth pulp — this gen- 
erally takes from thirty to forty minutes. Place in 
crocks and tie cotton batting over the mouth of crock. 

TOMATO BUTTER. 

One bushel ripe tomatoes, one-half bushel of ripe 
apples, five pounds of brown sugar, one ounce cinna- 
mon, one ounce allspice, one ounce cloves ; first allow 
tomatoes to come to a boil, then add the apples peeled 
and cored ; let cook together, watching very carefully 
for about three-fourths of a day, then add the sugar and 
allow to boil until juice is cooked out of them ; one hour 
before taking off add the spices. 

ORANGE MARMALADE— DELICIOUS. 

Quarter the oranges and take out the seeds and white 
strings. To every pound of pulp add a cup of cold 
water, and let it stand thus for twenty-four hours. 
Boil some of the peel in several waters until quite ten- 
der; then to each pound of pulp, add one-quarter of a 
pound of boiled peel, and one and a quarter pounds of 
white sugar. Boil this slowly until it jellies, and the 
bits of peel are quite transparent. 

HOW TO MAKE TUITA FRUITA, OR THE 

ART OF PRESERVING ALL FRUITS AS 

THEY COME IN THEIR SEASON. 

Take one gallon crock, or one gallon stone jar, first 
put in one pint of the best alcohol, then one cup of sugar 
(granulated), then one cup of fruit, and then one cup of 
sugar, and continue to do this in this way until you are 



The Complete Cook Book 285 

finished ; but you use only one pint of alcohol for the 
gallon crock and this you place in at first. List of 
fruits in their order to he preserved : Strawberries, red 
raspberries, blackberries, bananas and oranges, cher- 
ries, plums, apricots, pineapples, peaches and pears; 
always keep the jar or crock covered and when you 
have completed work, put a piece of brandied paper on 
top and cover crock securely. 



286 The Complete Cook Book. 



PICKLES, ETC. 



THE MOST IMPOVED METHOD FOR MAKING 
PICKLES. 

Make a brine of four pails of water, six quarts of 
salt, a piece of alum size of an egg, one and one-half 
ounces of saltpeter, and stir until thoroughly dissolved. 
Test to see if brine is strong enough ; see that it will 
balance an egg or a small potato. Put in your small 
or medium-size cucumbers, and leave in from fourteen 
to twenty-four hours, according to how salty you desire 
same. Then transfer pickles into a vessel of fresh cold 
water for twenty -four hours, mixing grape leaves in 
water as follows : A layer of grape leaves and a layer 
of pickles, and so on until vessel is full. The last five 
hours of the twenty-four, put a piece of ice on top of 
pickles large enough to chill them; this will harden 
them. Boil the vinegar made as described, put pickles 
into stone crocks or jars, pour hot vinegar over same, 
put a piece of writing paper on top of vinegar, then a 
thick layer of cotton batting, and seal jars or crocks. 
Tie cotton batting over mouth of crocks. You will find 
by processing pickles by this formula they will not be 
soft, and fungus or mould cannot form on top, 

HINTS ON THEIR MANAGEMENT. 

Pickles should always have vinegar enough to cover 
them ; those intended for immediate use should be kept 
in wide top stoneware jars. Keep a cloth folded upon 
the pickles, and the jar covered with a plate or wooden 
vessel ; they should occasionally be looked over, and the 
softest and least likely to keep, used first. Pickles in- 



The Complete Cook Book. 287 

tended for use the following summer should he assorted 
from the remainder when first made; choose those most 
firm and of equal size; put them into stone, or glass- 
ware, with fresh vinegar to cover them ; cover the ves- 
sel close, with several thicknesses of paper, or a tin 
cover, or if wide-mouthed bottles are used, cork them 
tightly. 

Cucumhera may be put down in a strong salt and 
water brine, to be greened and pickled as they are 
wanted. Keep them under the brine. When wanted, 
freshen them in two or three changes of water, for two 
or three days, until by cutting one open, you find it but 
little salt ; then pour scalding vinegar over them three 
times, and keep them covered; add spices and season- 
ing to the vinegar to suit the taste. 

The vessels in which pickles have been, whether of 
glass, wood, or stone, will never be fit for preserved 
fruit; they will surely spoil if put in them. 

MOTHER'S PEACH SWEET PICKLE. 

Three pints of sugar to one quart of vinegar. Let 
boil and add a few sticks of cinnamon, about six or 
eight cloves and two or three little pieces of mace. 
When it boils add peaches, and when clear put in jars, 
cover with syrup and seal. Before taking off the fire 
add a pinch of salt and a pinch of red pepper. 

GRANDMOTHER'S MANGO PICKLE. 

Take tlae mangoes out of brine and green them by 
scalding in a brass kettle in alum water and vinegar. 
Make a stuffing for two dozen mangoes as follows : 
One-half cabbage, ten cents' worth of white mustard 
seeds, ten cents' worth of black mustard seeds, fifteen 
cents' worth of celery seeds, a few cloves and allspice, 
one small jar of pickled onions, one-half bottle of salad 
oil and two pounds of brown sugar. Put one pound of 
sugar in the stuffing and one pound of sugar in the 
vinegar; one root ol horse radish grated. Stuff the 
mangoes, put them in a jar and cover with cold vinegar. 



288 The Complete Cook Book. 

EAISIN PICKLE. 

Two and one-half pounds of raisins, three dozen 
medium-sized cucumber pickles, one quart of vinegar, 
three cups of light-brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls of 
white mustard seeds, two tablespoonfuls of celery seeds, 
a little mace and stick cinnamon, and one small tea- 
spoonful of ground black pepper. Boil spices, sugar 
and vinegar to a rich syrup; put in raisins and let cook 
until plump and clear and pour all over the chopped 
cucumbers. If this amount of syrup doesn't cover 
pickles, take another quart of vinegar, adding more 
spices and sugar. 

CHOPPED CABBAGE PICKLE. 

One largo cabbage, one-half peck of green tomatoes, 
fifteen medium-sized onions, twenty cucumber pickles, 
scant one-half pound of white mustard seeds, one ounce 
of celery seeds, one-half cup of ground black pepper, 
one small box of dry mustard, one and one-half pounds 
of brown sugar, one gallon of good vinegar, one-half 
pint of grated horse radish, three-quarters cup of tumeric, 
one-half pint of olive oil and one-half pint of mayon- 
naise. Chop tomatoes, cabbage and onions up, but not 
too fine, and let them stand in salt and water twenty- 
four hours. Drain and soak in weak vinegar for three 
days, changing with fresh vinegar each morning. The 
fourth morning add one gallon of vinegar, the mustard, 
sugar and tumeric. Scald the same vinegar for three 
mornings; then chop cucumber pickles; add celery 
seeds, black pepper, mustard seeds, horse radish, olive 
oil and mayonnaise. 

GREEN TOMOATO SWEET PICKLE. 

One peck of small green tomatoes, one dozen small 
onions. Sprinkle well with salt and let them remain 
twenty-four hours; then pour off the salt and throw 
away the onions. If too salty, wash in clear water and 
take one teaspoonful of allspice, one teaspoonful of gin- 
ger, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls of 
celery seeds, one teaspoonful of corriander seedei, two 



The Complete Cook Book. 289 

tablespoonfula of mustard seeds, and two pounds of 
brown sugar to one gallon of vinegar. Crush the spiceq 
and put all on the fire ; scald, and when they come to a 
boil take them off; if not seasoned high enough, add 
more spices. 

MY" MOTHEE'S CHOPPED CABBAGE PICKLE. 

Cut two medium-sized cabbages, chop six large or 
more small onions, sis or eight pods of red pepper, 
sprinkle in layers of salt and let stand for twelve or 
fifteen hours. Pour off the salt and if the cabbage is 
too salty, wash it in clear water. Spices : One ounce 
of white mustard seeds, one ounce of black mustard 
seeds, one and one-half ounces of celery seeds, one good 
sized root of grated horse radish and one teacupful of 
brown sugar. Mix the spices thoroughly as you put in 
the kettle; cover with good vinegar and scald twenty 
or thirty minutes. Color while hot with tumeric. 

MOTHER'S WHOLE CABBAGE PICKLE— TO 
MAKE THE LIQUOR. 

To two gallons of vinegar add one pint of white 
mustard seeds, four ounces of ginger, three ounces of 
black pepper, three ounces of allspice, one ounce of 
cloves, one ounce of celery seeds, and one ounce of 
tumeric; all to be pounded, but not very fine; one 
handful of horse radish, a few heads of garlic, four 
lemons sliced, and two pounds of brown sugar. 

To Pbepaee the Cabbage : Cut the cabbage into 
four pieces, put them in strong brine and let them re- 
main in it four weeks; then change the brine and let 
them remain in it a few days longer. Now soak them in 
fresh water a short time. Then take plain vinegar 
enough to cover the cabbage and let it remain in it ten 
days; first scalding it with a little tumeric in it, and, 
while hot, pour over cabbage. Then put it in the 
liquor prepared for it. Fix the liquor when you first 
commence the pickle, and let it stand in the sun. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

One peck tomatoes sliced, one dozen onions; sprinkle 
with salt, and lay by twenty-four hours; then drain 



290 The Complete Cook Book. 

them, three pounds sugar to one gallon vinegar, one and 
one-half ounces ground pepper, one ounce whole cloves, 
one ounce mustard seed, one ounce allspice, one cup 
mustard, mixed. Put all in a kettle with vinegar 
enough to cover; boil till tender. 

JACK'S GINGERED PEARS. 

Eight pounds fruit, eight pounds sugar, one-quarter 
pound green ginger root, four lemons, one glass of 
water. Pare and slice fruit; cut rind of lemon thin; 
pare and grate ginger root; boil all together until rich 
and clear. 

CHOW-CHOW PICKLE. 

Take a quarter of a peck each of green tomatoes, 
pickling beans, and white onions (scald the onions sepa- 
rately,) add one dozen cucumbers, green peppers, and a 
bead of cabbage chopped. Season with ground 
mustard, celery seed and salt to taste. Pour over these 
the best cider vinegar to cover them, and let all boil 
two hours, and while hot add two tablespoonfuls of 
sweet oil and the same of white sugar. Bottle and seal 
up carefully in wide-mouthed glass jars. 

GREEN TOMATO SWEET PICKLE. 

Slice tomatoes until you have seven pounds, sprinkle 
them with salt, and let them stand twenty -four hours. 
Then soak them for the same length of time in fresh 
water to get the brine from them. When drained off 
and ready, allow four and a half pounds of sugar, one 
ounce of cinnamon, one ounce of cloves, and enough 
vinegar to cover them. Boil the compound together 
and pour it over the tomatoes; let them stand twenty- 
four hours, then bring all to a boil, and tie away in 
Jars, and keep in a cool place away from the light. 

PREMIUM MUSTARD PICKLE. 

Soak three quarts of small cucumbers, gherkins, or 
green tomatoes, in strong salt water for three days; 
then put them into fresh cold water for a day or two, 



The Complete Cook Book. 291 

then scald them in plain vinegar and set them by in a 
place to cool. Take a gallon of vinegar, add to it one 
ounce of white mustard seed, two ounces of tumeric, 
three of sliced ginger, two of shredded horse radish, one- 
half pound of mustard, three pounds of brown sugar, 
one-half pint of sweet oil, one ounce each of celery 
seed, black pepper, cloves, mace, and one teaspoonful 
of cayenne pepper. Boil all these ingredients for fifteen 
minutes and pour it on the cucumbers, gherkins, or 
other scalded^vegetable you may wish to pickle. 

TO PICKLE ONIONS. 

Peel and boil small onions in milk and water ten minr 
utes. Put to a gallon of vinegar one-half ounce of 
mace, quarter of an ounce of cloves, five tablespoon- 
fuls of salt, one-half ounce of alum, and turn the whole, 
boiling hot, on the onions, the water and milk being 
first drained off, and seal in jars or crocks air-tight. 

CANTELOUPE PICKLE. 

Slice and peel nice ripe melons, and pour weak vin- 
egar over them and let them remain over night. Then 
lay them in a colander and measure the weak vinegar. 
Take the same quantity of strong vinegar and to every 
quart allow two pounds of brown sugar. Let them 
boil one hour and twenty minutes. Five minutes be- 
fore you take them off put in white mustard seeds, cin- 
namon and mace. 

STUFFED BELL PEPPER PICKLES. 

Cut off the caps of the peppers, take out all the seeds, 
then put the hulls in a strong brine for twelve hours. 
Have ready the following ingredients, fill the hulls 
with this, and then tie the caps on securely. 

Filling for the Peppers : One peck of cabbage 
chopped fine, two dozen small red onions sliced thin. 
Sprinkle these with salt and let stand all night. Press 
out all the water in the morning, then add one-half box 
of ground mustard, two ounces tumeric, a handful of 
celery seeds, four tablespoonf uls of ground cloves, four 



292 The Complete Cook Book. 

tablespoonfuls of ground mace, four tablespoonfuls o$ 
ground nutmegs, and four tablespoonfuls of ground 
cinnamon, two or three pods of red pepper ground, 
one-half pound of white mustard seeds, and a little 
scraped horse radish. Put this mixture in a kettle, and 
more than cover it with good vinegar, and cook until 
well done. Add a pint of olive oil when almost cold, 
then fill the peppers. You may add a little sugar to 
suit taste. Put the filled peppers in a stone jar, cover 
with cold vinegar and tie up until they season. 

OIL CUCUMBERS. 

As many cucumbers as you wish. Pare and slice 
them, but not too thin. Put a thick layer of cucumbers 
and a thin layer of white onions sliced thin and a few 
pods of fresh red pepper chopped ; then sprinkle a layer 
of salt and then more cucumbers, onions, pepper and 
salt until you have the required quantity. Let them 
soak twelve hours and if too salty pour fresh water over 
them ^or a few minutes. Now put them in a clean, 
thin cloth and squeeze out every particle of water. 
Put the cucumbers, onions and red pepper in a stone 
jar and pour over them the best white wine vinegar; 
add celery seeds and mustard seeds, and cover the top 
of the jar with two inches of best salad oil. Cover the 
top of the jar with a bladder, and when necessary add 
more vinegar. Alwaja have two inches of oil on top. 

STUFFED CUCUMBERS. 

For six gallons or fifty mangoes, take one large or two 
medium heads of cabbage; shave it fine, salt it well and 
Bang it up in a bag for twenty-four hours to drain ; then 
lay in a shady place to dry. When dry add one-half 
pound of black mustard seeds, one pound of white 
mustard seeds, one tablespoonful* of ground ginger, 
one tablespoonful of cinnamon, two tablespoonfuls of 
mustard, one ounce of celery seeds and one tablespoon- 
ful of fennel seeds. Mix this thoroughly, and then add 
one-half teacupful of ground black pepper, one-half 
teacup of red pepper, six large onions, cut fine (don't 
forget to skin and salt the onions and let soak or stand 



The Complete Cook Book. 293 

for several hours), one-half pint of horse radish, scraped 
fine ; five cents' worth of tumeric, three ground nutmegs 
and a few buttons of garlic— about half a handful. 
Mix this with one pint of best salad oil. Put one and 
one-half pounds of brown sugar to one-half gallon of 
best cider vinegar, and when boiling hot pour it over 
the pickles. When perfectly cold fill, pack in stone 
jar with small cucumbers and onions; then pour the 
boiling vinegar over, shut up closely, watch carefully 
and add more vinegar if necessary. Soak the mangoes, 
cucumbers, beans, etc., in clear water twenty-four to 
forty-eight hours ; then scald in brass kettle with grape 
leaves, one teaspoonful of alum to two-gallon kettle. 
Let them simmer one hour on the stove (not boil) ; then 
set off and let cool one hour in the kettle, Gut the 
mangoes before soaking. Small, red onions added to 
dressing is an improvement, but they must be skinned, 
soak and sliced in salt water. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

One-half bushel of ripe tomatoes. Boil a half- 
hour and strain through a sieve, mashing well 
the pulp. Eetum to a porcelain kettle with one 
ounce of salt, one ounce of mace, one-half ounce 
of cloves, one teaspoonful of black pepper, one 
teaspoonful of red pepper and four tablespoonfuls of 
ground mustard and one dozen medium-sized onions. 
Put in part of them when you first put in tomatoes. 
Chop the rest and tie in a thin muslin bag. Tbe spices 
must all be pounded and tied up loosely in muslin bags. 
Boil from four to six hours, or until thick enough to 
admit of one-half pint of best vinegar to each quart, to 
be added after the catsup is cold. 

TOMATO CATSUP (No. 2). 

Boil one bushel of ripe tomatoes, skins and all, and 
when soft strain through a colander to remove the skins 
only. Mix one cup of salt, two pounds of brown sugar, 
half an ounce of cayenne pepper, three ounces each of 
ground allspice, mace, and celery seed, two ounces of 
Erround cinnamon, and stir into the tomato. Add two 



294 The Complete Cook Book. 

quarts of best cider vinegar, and when thoroughly 
mixed strain through a sieve. Pour all that runs through 
into a large kettle, and boil slowly till reduced one-haljf. 
It is an improvement to add a pint of brandy ten min- 
utes before the catsup is done, but many think it un- 
necessary. Put it in small bottles, seal, and keep in a 
cool, dark place. 

TOMATO CATSUP (No. 3). 

Take enough ripe tomatoes to fill a jar, put them in 
a moderate oven, and bak6 them until they are thor- 
oughly soft ; then strain them through a coarse cloth or 
sieve, and to every pint of juice put a pint of vinegar, 
half an ounce of garlic sliced, quarter of an ounce of 
salt, and the same of white pepper finely ground. Boil 
it for an hour, then rub it through a sieve, boil it again 
to the consistency of cream ; when cold, bottle it, put a 
teaspoonful of sweet oil in each bottle; cork them tight, 
and keep in a dry place. 

TOMATO CATSUP— EECIPE FOR MAKING A 
SMALL QUANTITY. 

Take a gallon of^ripe tomatoes, skin them by pouring 
boiling water over them; let them get cold, and put 
them in a stewpan with four tablespoonfuls of salt, and 
the same of ground black pepper, half a spoonful of 
ground allspice, and three spoonfuls of ground mustard. 
Throw in eight pods of red pepper, and let all stew 
slowly until the tomatoes are soft and tender. Thin the 
mixture with enough vinegar to allow the catsup to be 
strained through a sieve ; cook it fifteen minutes, and 
bottle up when cold. This will last in any climate, if 
well boiled, and made according to these directions. 
Keep always in a cool, dark oloset or cellar. Light 
ruins all catsups, pickles or preserves, when they are 
exposed to it. This is a fine recipe. 

TOMATO SOY— FINE. 

Twenty-four ripe tomatoes, eight onions, eight green 
peppers, four tablespoonfuls of salt, eight tablespoonfuls 



The Complete Cook Book. 295 

of brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls of cloves, four table- 
spoonfuls of ginger, two tablespoonfuls of allspice and 
eigbt teaoupfuls of good vinegar. Boil for about two 
hours ; spices must be ground, tomatoes must be peeled ; 
tomatoes, peppers and onions must be chopped, 

CHILI SAUCE. 

One-half bushel of ripe tomatoes; scald, skin and cut 
to pieces ; twelve tablespoonfuls of table salt, one-half 
teacupful of mustard seeds, one and one-half ounces of 
ground cloves, one and one-half ounces of cinnamon, 
one and one-half ounces of nutmeg, one and one-half 
ounces of allspice, one-half ounce of whole cloves, one- 
half ounce of pepper, thirty green peppers, thirty onions, 
one-half gallon of cider vinegar, and one and one-half 
pounds of brown sugar. Cook tomatoes until they com- 
mence to soften ; then add the rest. Boil about one-half 
hour or until the spices commence to taste; then put in 
glass jars and seal tightly. 

TOMATO SOY. 

One peck of green tomatoes, one-quarter peck of 
white onions, one-eighth peck of cabbage, twelve large 
bell peppers. Let them stand in salt one day and night. 
Drain well and boil together about twenty minutes in 
vinegar and water; drain well again and put all in 
pure vinegar prepared as follows: One gallon vine- 
gar, one box mustard, five pounds sugar, one wine- 
glassful of cinnamon, one wineglassful of mace, one 
wineglassful of ginger, one wineglassful of allspice, 
four ounces white mustard seeds, two ounces celery 
seeds and one ounce tumeric. Mix and boil the soy in 
it a few minutes; take out and let the syrup boil until 
it thickens. 



296 The Complete Cook Book. 



CANDIES, ETC. 



SYRUP-MAKING. 

The French method of boiling sugar and making 
syrups to be used for candying and glaced fruits 
of all kinds; also carmels and nougat. — To every two 
pounds of granulated sugar add one pint of water; 
place on stove having a good fire. Have a vessel 
handy containing two or three quarts of ice water, 
and when the sugar comes to a boil dip the fingers 
of the right hand into the water and quickly pass 
them all around the inside of the pan, but avoid touch- 
ing the syrup; repeat this two or three times; this is 
very necessary so as to have the sugar in proper con- 
dition. Take care to dip the fingers into ice water each 
time; let the sugar come to a boil and squeeze in five 
or six drops of lemon juice. Then take a thin piece of 
wood, the shape and length of a pencil, dip the point 
into the ice water and then plunge it into the boiling 
sugar; remove it quickly, and dip it immediately into 
the water again. Lift it out again and see whether the 
sugar adhering to the wood be thoroughly hard ; if not 
let it boil again and renew the test as before. To be 
positive that the sugar is perfectly done, place the point 
of the stick with sugar on between the teeth and bite 
it ; if it cracks easily without sugar sticking to the teeth 
it is thoroughly done. Then remove vessel at once 
from fire and set in ice water so that water comes up 
about an inch around outside of vessel, to prevent sugar 
from turning brown if you do not use it at once. 

CANDY MAKING. 

At almost every modem dinner, lunch, and even 
breakfast, some dainty confection is served. A very 



The Complete Cook Book. 297 

delicious chocolate candy can be made at home that 
shows bewitchingly through the cut glass of a French 
honbon dish, and is far superior in taste to many famous 
makes of chocolate and much less expensive. This is 
the exact recipe : One cup of grated Baker's chocolate, 
three cups of granulated sugar, a piece of butter the size 
of a walnut, with a cup of hot water, a pinch of salt and 
a teaspoonful of vanilla. These are the ingredients,! 
and it is an easy task to boil them down to the consist- 
ency of candy. Stir it constantly and allow it to boil 
for ten minutes only. Try it in a cup of cold water, 
and so soon as it is of the consistency of thickened 
molasses pour into buttered tins. Then with a silver 
knife stir it back and forth till you find it is sugaring. 
Then marking it off in little squares you may put it 
away to cool. 

COOOANUT CARAMELS. 

Two nupfuls of sugar, with enough water to boil it. 
When ready to take off, put in one cupful of oocoanut, 
with a small piece of butter. Flavor with vanilla. 

COCOANUT BALLS. 

Two cupfuls of grated cocoanut, one cupful of pow- 
dered sugar, two tablespoonfuls of flour, whites of two 
eggs. Boll in small balls, and bake quickly. 

LEMON DROPS. 

Pour enough lemon juice over one-half a pound of 
powdered sugar to dissolve it, put it in a pan and boil 
to a thick syrup ; drop a little in cold water and when 
it is brittle it is done. Then drop on buttered plates in 
email drops and set away to cool and harden. 

KISSES. 

The whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, stir in 
enough pulverized sugar to form a stiff paste, and two 
teaspoonfuls of the extract of lemon. Drop upon new 
tins buttered as lightly as possible. Drop the size of a 
half dollar. When done, let them stand a short time 
before slipping off. 



298 The Complete Cook Book. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Take one pound of sugar and one pint of water ; dis- 
solve, and boil. When done, add one teaspoonful of 
butter, and enough lemon juice and the oil of lemon to 
flavor. 

CREAM ; CANDY. 

To make cream candy, take two pounds of light 
brown sugar, one teacup of water, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, one of vinegar, and two of flavoring extract. 
Dissolve the sugar in the water, but do not stir it. Set 
it on to boil, let it boil briskly for twenty minutes, then 
try by dropping a spoonful in a glass of cold water. If 
cooked enough to pull, butter some dishes and pour it 
into them; when cool enough to handle, pull it until it 
becomes as white as cream. 

ANOTHER CREAM CANDY. 

Three cups of sugar, half a cup of vinegar, and one- 
third of a cup of water. Boil together until it is thick 
and will harden when dropped into a cup of water. 
Butter some dishes, and just before fllling them, add to 
the candy some flavoring essence; if you put this in 
earlier it will boil out. Pour the candy on the buttered 
dishes, and when a little cool prepare to pull it until it 
is white and light, which it will be if made by these 
directions. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

To make chocolate creams : For the insides, mix to- 
gether two cups of sugar, one cup of water, and one and 
a half tablespoons of arrowroot. Let them boil from five 
to eight minutes, stirring constantly. After removing 
from the fire, stir the mixture until it comes to a cream. 
When nearly smooth add one teaspoonful of extract of 
vanilla and form the cream into balls. For the out- 
sides, melt half a pound of sweet chocolate, without 
adding any water, and roll the cream balls in it while* 
it is warm. 

CREAM CANDY. 

One pound loaf sugar, one cupful of water, one-half 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, two teaspoorfuls of 



The Complete Cook Book. S99 

vanilla, two teaspoonfuls of vinegar, butter size of an 
egg; boil until it hardens when dropped in cold water. 
When cool pull as you would other candy. 

EASPBEERY DEOPS. 

Use raspberry juice instead of water to moisten the 
sugar; put in a pan and heat; do not let it boil; then 
put in a very little more sugar, and let it warm with 
the rest a moment; then drop it upon buttered paper; 
while heating stir constantly. Drops of this kind may 
be made from all kinds of berries. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Five tablespoonfuls molasses, four tablespoonfuls 
sugar, four tablespoonfuls of water, two tablespoonfuls 
butter; let boil until when dropping a little in cold 
water it will be brittle. Put in a pinch of soda before 
taking off the stove, and pour on buttered plates, and 
when cool enough mark in squares. 

CEEAM CANDY". 

One pound white sugar, one cup water; stirontha 
stove until dissolved ; let it boil. When done it will 
snap if dropped in cold water. Do not stir after the 
sugar is dissolved. When done turn out on buttered 
plates. Set over cold water. When it is cool enough 
to handle pull quickly with the fingers until brittle. 
Season with vanilla, put in when cooling. 

FIG CANDY. 

Boil until it colors one- third of a cupful of water, one 
cupful of sugar. Do not stir while boiling, but just 
before taking from the stove stir in one-quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar. Dip the figs in this syrup 
and lay on buttered plates to dry. 

SUGAE CANDY. 

Six cups of sugar, one of vinegar, one of water, one 
spoonful of butter, and one teaspoonful of soda dissolved 
in a little hot water. Boil all together without stir- 



300 The Complete Cook Book. 

ring, for half an hour. Flavor with lemon or vanilla. 
This is very good when "pulled" like the old-fashioned 
molasses candy, or it may be cooled on a buttered plate. 

TO BLANCH ALMONDS. 

Pour boiling water on them and let them remain in 
it a few minutes. Remove the skins, throw the 
almonds into cold water, drain them from the water, 
but do not wipe them. 

POP-CORN BALLS. 

To six quarts of pop corn boil one pint of molasses 
about fifteen minutes; then put the corn into a large 
pan, pour the boiled molasses over it, and stir it briskly 
until thoroughly mixed. Then with clean hands make 
into balls of the desired size. 

COCOANUT CANDY. 

Four cups of water, two and a half cups fine white 
sugar, four spoonfuls of vinegar, and a piece of butter 
as large as an egg ; boil till thick, or about three-quar- 
ters of an hour. Just before removing, stir in one cup 
of dessicated cocoanut, and lay in small, flat cakes on 
buttered plates, to cool and harden. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

One pint of new milk, quarter of a pound of grated 
chocolate, and one cup and a half of white sugar. Boil 
all these together until it will pull like candy ; try a 
little, and if stiff enough to pull, pour it on a buttered 
dish, and mark it off in squares with a knife as it cools. 
It will break easily when cold. 

CHOCOLATE KISSES. 
One-half pound of sugar, one ounce of finely pow- 
dered chocolate. Mix the sugar and chocolate together, 
and then mix it with the whites of four eggs well 
beaten. Drop on buttered paper and bake. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

Take two quarts of molasses and one pound of brown 
sugar, and the juice of two lemons. Let the molasses 



The Complete Cook Book. 301 

and sugar boil moderately, without stirring it, for two 
hours; if not thick enough to pull then, let it boil a lit- 
tle longer; then put in your extract, for if this is put 
in earlier the flavor will boil away. "When the candy 
is cool enough to handle, put into the pot a pint of 
parched pinders, or pecan meats, or almonds cut up. 
Butter two large dishes and pour out the candy. 

MOLASSES CANDY OF OUR GRANDFATHERS' 

TIME. 

One quart of molasses, and butter the size of an egg. 
Set over a brisk fire till it will harden on being dropped 
into cold water. A teaspoonful of essence of winter- 
green should be added when it is almost done. Pull it 
while warm, with buttered hands, and cut in sticks. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Place in a granite or porcelain-lined kettle two cups 
of good molasses, one -cup of sugar (either brown or 
white), and three-fourths of a cup of butter. Boil 
rapidly, stirring constantly, for about fifteen minutes 
or until it snaps in ice water. Pour into square, but- 
tered tins, allow to cool, then turn carefully out on to 
a board and mark the desired sizes (about one and a 
quarter by two inches), then cut through and wrap 
each piece in waxed paper. 

PEANUT MOLASSES CANDY. 

Place in a good-sized kettle one quart of good 
molasses, one cup of sugar and one-quarter cup of but- 
ter. Boil rapidly, stirring constantly, until it will snap 
sharply in ice water, then add a level teaspoonful of 
baking soda and stir a moment. Have ready one quart 
of shelled peanuts, i.e., have them shelled, akinned and 
broken apart into halves. Add them to the candy and 
stir rapidly and just enough to mix well, and pour at 
once into flat, square, greased pans. When partly 
cold mark into blocks and cut through. If wrapped 
neatly in waxed paper and kept in a dry place, this will 
keep nicely for weeks. 



302 The Complete Cook Book. 

CHOCOLATE CAEAMELS. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one- 
half cup of rich milk, one-quarter cup of butter, one- 
quarter pound of unsweetened chocolate, one teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla. Put the molasses, sugar, milk and 
butter over the fire and stir constantly until it thickens 
(about one-half hour). Have ready the chocolate, 
which should be shaved, and melted over steam. Add 
this to the other ingredients and continue stirring until, 
when a small quantity is dropped into ice water it will 
snap. When it reaches this point add quickly a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, stir until mixed and pour at once 
into a square, greased pan. Allow it to become almost 
cold, then turn out carefully onto a board, mark in one- 
inch squares and then with a long, strong knife cut into 
squares. Wrap each caramel neatly in a square of 
waxed paper. 

CREAM CANDY. 

Place over the fire in a granite saucepan, three cups 
of granulated sugar, with half a cup each of water and 
vinegar. Boil rapidly without stirring until it begins 
to change color. Have some ice water at hand and be- 
gin " trying" the candy by dropping into half a cup of 
ice water about half a teaspoonful of the boiling mix- 
ture. When it will "snap" remove from the fire and 
pour at once into pie tins. Do not scrape the kettle. 
Allow it to become cold enough to handle, then add any 
flavoring extract preferred, remove from the tins and 
begin at once to pull, continuing this process until it is 
perfectly white, working with all possible rapidity and 
in a warm place. Form into neat bars, or cut at once 
into short pieces with a shears. This will keep for 
some time if securely covered and kept in a dry place. 



NOUGAT. 

granulated su 

y until meltec. ^^^ „„ ^^yj^^i. ^jkjixjl. 

Have ready one and a half cups of shelled almonds, or 
any nut desired, which have been warmed in a slow 



Put one pound of granulated sugar into an iron skil- 
let and stir constantly until melted and an amber color. 



The Complete Cook Book. 303 

oven. When the sugar is all melted and an amher 
color, add the nuts, stir until mixed and pour without 
delay into a greased pan. 

CLEAR PEANUT CANDY. 

Place over the fire in a granite saucepan two cups of 
granulated sugar, one cup of boiling water and a level 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Let these boil rapidly, 
without stirring, until it will "snap" when tried in ice 
water. Have ready a small square pan, greased, in 
which you have spread out evenly two cups of shelled 
and skinned peanuts. When the candy is done, pour 
it carefully over the nuts, and when partly cold mark 
and cut into bars. Be careful not to scrape the kettle 
when pouring the candy out. Any other nut may be 
used instead of peanuts and a mixture will be found a 
pleasing variety. 

COCOANUT BAES. 

Follow the rules for clear peanut candy. Have ready 
one and a half cups of grated cocoanutand when the 
candy is done add the cocoanut and pour into a square, 
greased pan, and when nearly cold mark and cut into 
bars and wrap in waxed paper. This is delicious. 

These homemade candies are excellent, but those 
who desire to make gifts of sweets, which are always 
in taste, always appreciated and good for holidays and 
ordinary days alike, should secure a box of the excep- 
tionally delicious candy manufactured in such perfec- 
tion now, and put up in dainty boxes and packages, 
which are in themselves welcome souvenirs. 

TO MAKE WALNUT CREAM CANDY, DATES 
AND FRUIT CREAMS. 

Take the white of an egg, as much water as egg, add 
a little salt, and a little vanilla, and a little brandy, stir 
(not beat) into this enough of the sugar mentioned to 
form a cream, or until a fork will stand up straight in 
it. Then just place a little on kernel of nuts on each 
side and press gently. Take stone from date and do in 
same manner. Other fruits can be treated in the same 
manner. 



304 The Complete Cook Book. 

NUT CEEAMS. 

Make the French cream, and before putting all tne 
sugar into it add the nuts, and when done form them 
into balls. Hickory nuts, butternuts, walnuts or 
almonds may be used, or several kinds of nuts may be 
mixed together. 

PEPPERMINT DROPS. 

Pour into a vessel one gill of water, with a pound of 
granulated sugar, half a pound of powdered sugar, and 
a teaspoonful of peppermint essence. Mix well with 
the spatula for ten minutes. Place the third part of the 
preparation in a copper gum-dropper with one lip, then 
place it on the fire, stir with the spatula until it nearly 
comes to a boil, take from oflf the fire, and immediately 
add one ounce of powdered sugar ; mix well for one 
minute. Have two or three sheets of tin on a table. 
Take the dropper by the handle, in the left hand, lip in 
front and over the tin, and then, with a larding needle 
in the right hand, slightly incline the lip over the tin; 
then bj' gently pressing the preparation down, with the 
point of the needle over the lip, drop small even bits on 
the tins the size of a penny and half an inch apart from 
one another. Proceed the same with the rest of the prep- 
aration until all down, and then allow to dry for thirty 
minutes. Lay a sheet of paper over a tin pan, gently 
lift up the drops one by one and lay them over the 
paper. Place the pan on a shelf, and dry for twenty- 
four hours, then transfer them into a tin box or a glass 
jar, and serve when desired. 

TO GLACE FRUITS. 

Have the fruit perfectly dry. If oranges, separate 
carefully each carpel without breaking the inner skin. 
Stand them in a warm place to dry. Put one pound 
of granulated sugar in a granite kettle, add to it a half- 
cup of water and stand over the fire to boil. Do not 
stir after the sugar is dissolved. After the mixture has 
been boiling about ten minutes, hold the forefinger and 
thumb in ice water for a minute, then quickly dip up a 



The Complete Cook Book. 305 

little of the boiling syrup with them ; press the thumb 
and finger tightly together, then draw them apart ; if 
the syrup forms a thread it is at the second degree. 
Boil gently about three or four minutes longer until it 
reaches the sixth degree. This may be known by tak- 
ing a small portion on the end of a spoon, then dipping 
it into cold water, and breaking it off quickly ; if it is 
brittle, without being at all sticky, it is just right. 
The syrup must never be stirred, or it will cause granu- 
lation. Now take it quickly from the fire, add a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice, stand in a basin of boiling 
water, to keep the syrup from candying. Take the 
fruit on the point of a large skewer or with the sugar 
tongs, dip into the syrup, lay it on a piece of buttered 
paper, and stand in a warm dry place to dry. English 
walnuts and almonds are glaced in the same manner. 

HOW TO CRYSTALLIZE FRUIT. 

Select the finest of any kind of fruit, leave on their 
stalks. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth ; 
dip the fruit into the beaten white, holding by the stalk. 
Be sure and have every part of the fruit covered, then 
dip into powdered sugar. Place in a warm oven until 
the icing becomes firm. 

TO CRYSTALLIZE ANY FRUIT THAT WILL 
KEEP ITS FORM; ALSO NUTS. 

Make a syrup of one cup of sugar, four tablespoon- 
fuls of water and two of vinegar; when it boils stir in a 
small pinch of soda; stir as little as possible, or the 
candy will not be clear ; boil till it hairs, as described 
before. Separate the fruit from ^the stems; grapes, 
cherries, oranges (whose quarters have been separated 
about twenty-four hours beforehand, to become dry and 
hard), cutting out the seeds carefully, so the juice will 
not escape; citron cut in pretty forms; dip each fruit or 
piece of nut in the warm syrup, and lay it on waxed 
paper in a cool place to harden. If the first dipping is 
not successful go over the operation again, adding a 
little more water to the syrup, and when it stands the 
test, dip again. Syrup can be worked over twelve 



3o6 The Complete Cook Book. 

times in case of a failure of fruit crystallizing. Use 
granulated sugar. Don't stir syrup after it comes to a 
boil. If your syrup should candy, add a little more 
water and sugar, and just as it is coming to a boil drop 
in a pinch of cream of tartar to the quantity of syrup 
described; this will prevent it from candying. Use 
the same remedy in making candies. 

A^. B. — Six drops of lemon juice may be used in- 
stead of the cream of tartar. 

CREAMED GRAPES AND ORANGES. 

Cut the grapes from the bunch, leaving the stems as 
long as possible. Peel the oranges, separate the car- 
pels, and place them in a warm spot to dry. Stand 
them on a plate, round side down, and so that one piece 
will not touch another. While these are drying, 
make the fondant according to the following directions : 
Put one pound of sugar in a saucepan, add a half pint 
of water; stir until dissolved, and then boil slowly un- 
til it will make a soft ball. Dip your fingers into ice 
water, then quickly into the syrup, and rub your 
fingers and thumb together. If the syrup will make a 
soft ball, take it at once from the fire and turn it out on 
a greased platter. When cool, stir continually until it 
stiffens. Now put it in a small saucepan, place it in 
another of boiling water, and stir until it is of a soft, 
creamy mass. If too thick, add a few drops of water 
until the proper consistency. Try one or two grapes 
until you have it the right consistency. Grease squares 
of paper, dip the fruit carefully, place it on the greased 
paper. These must be put in a cool, dry place, and 
even then will not keep long. 

GLACE FRUITS. 

Do not attempt to make this confection on a damp or 
rainy day, nor when there is anything cooking in the 
kitchen making steam. To one pound of granulated 
sugar add a cupful of water and half a teaspoonfui 
of cream of tartar. Boil in a graniteware or porce- 
lain-lined pot, without stirring or even jarring in any 
way until the "crack" stage is reached; that is, when 



The Complete Cook Book. 307 

a little put into cold water will auickly harden and 
break with a snap or crack. When this point is 
reached, place the pot immediately into a pan of cold 
water to arrest cooking. Have ready your orange sec- 
tions (which must be dry on the outside, not damp), 
grapes, each with a little stem, or candied cherries, to 
which a tiny stick stem may be added. Dip each piece 
of fruit into the syrup, and when thoroughly coated 
remove to an oiled slab to dry. A pair of pincers is 
the most convenient thing for handling the fruit. 

BRANDIED CHERRIES. 

Use perfectly sound, large sweet cherries; remove 
the stems, or clip them within an inch of the fruit; put 
over the fire in the preserving kettle a pound of sugar 
and a quart of water; boil them together, and skim the 
syrup quite clear; scald the cherries in this for two or 
three minutes, but not long enough to break the skins; 
then take them from the syrup with a skimmer, and 
spread them on dishes to cool. Make a syrup in quan- 
tity sufficient to cover the cherries, allowing a pound of 
sugair to half a pint of water or of the thin syrup used 
for scalding the cherries; boil the syrup, skimming it 
until it is clear, and then cool it ; when it is cold, mix 
with it an equal quantity of the best French brandy. 
Put the cherries into wide-mouthed bottles, pour the 
syrup over them, cork the bottles tight, and then seal 
them by dipping the corks into melted resin and wax. 



3o8 The Complete Cook Book. 



WINES, CORDIALS, ETC. 



THE SERVICE OP WINES. 

Cosmopolite Louisiana is undoubtedly the wine- 
drinking section of the Union and a word as to the 
manner of serTing the wines which play no small part 
in the discussion of "La Cuisine Creole" will not be out 
of place. 

The inherited French taste of the greater portion of 
the population and the education by contact of the 
American element makes claret the universal table wine. 
The climate too renders this wine particularly pala- 
table, and during the long heated term it is seldom ab- 
sent from the table of even the most economical. At the 
restaurant it is the exception to see a person dining 
without a bottle of vin ordinaire while for breakfast 
during hot weather white wines of the lighter kinds are 
much used. 

As to the manner of serving wines at dinner the fol- 
lowing menu will convey the most adequate idea: 

With soup, sherry; with fish, white wine; with en- 
trees, claret, vin ordinaire; with entremets, claret, vin 
ordinaire; with roast, champagne; with salad, cham- 
pagne; with dessert, fine claret or Burgundy; with cafe 
noir, cognac. 

This is the general order in which they are served, 
viz. : 

After the soup. — A strong dry wine such as Madeira, 
or sherry. 

With the fish. — A white dry wine such as Sauternes, 
Cbablis, Chateau d'Yquem, Rhine wine, etc. 

After the fish and until the roast. — Claret. 

With the roast. — Burgundy. 

With sweet dishes. — Champagnes or dessert wines, 
such as Tokay, Malaga, Constance, etc. 



The Complete Cook Book. 309 

_As a last ad -vice, remember the old adage: "The 
dinner should never await the guests, but the guests 
the dinner, because, however well cooked, a dish can- 
not be warmed over. " 

POINTEES ON CLARETS. 

In order to obtain a good bottle of claret or Sautemes 
at a moderate price, buyers should secure their wines in 
cask, and have them bottled about one year in advance. 

To develop their bouquet and other qualities, high- 
class wines require several years of bottling. 

The cost of bottling a cask of wine in France is about 
$35 for 24 cases (388 bottles to the cask). For pints, 
60 cents extra per case of two dozen pints. 

High-grade clarets should be drunk, particularly in 
winter, at the temperature of the room in which they 
are served. It is advisable to uncork the bottle from 
fifteen to thirty minutes before serving the wines, the 
contact with the air being favorable to the development 
of the "bouquet." 

Old bottled wines generally form a sediment, more or 
less pronounced, according to the year. This sediment 
is not injurious to the quality, provided the wine be 
carefully decanted before serving. The easiest way is 
to stand the bottle Up for some hours without shaking 
it, taking care to mark the side on which it had been 
lying, so as to decant it with the same side down. The 
bottle should be carefully uncorked and not shaken. 
Care should be taken to hold the bottle before a light so 
as not to let pass the smallest particle of sediment, 
for the sediment mixed with the wine takes away its 
bouquet and gves it a hard taste. 

CHAMPAGNE CUP. 

Squeeze the juice of half a good-sized, sound lemon 
into a fancy glass pitcher large enough to contain five 
pints; sweeten with one tablespoonful of powdered 
sugar, then add two ponies of red curagoa, one bottle of 
plain soda, and two slices of cucumber rind. Pour in 
three pints of any brand of champagne, adding about a 
quarter of a pound of ice, then mix thoroughly with a 



3IO The Complete Cook Book. 

spoon, and ornament the punch nicely with straw- 
berries, very thin slices of pineapple, a finely sliced, 
medium-sized orange, and half a bunch of fine, fresh 
mint; send the cup to the table with six champagne 
glasses. 

CLARET CUP. 

Have a glass pitcher holding two and a half quarts, 
or five pints ; squeeze in the juice of three medium- 
sized, sound lemons, add four tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar, two ponies of red curagoa, and two slices of cu- 
cumber rind, then pour in three pints of claret, and one 
bottle of plain soda; or a pint of either Clysmic, Apol- 
linaris, or carbonic water will answer. Mix thoroughly 
with a spoon, adding a lump of ice weighing about 
three-quarters of a pound; mix again, then decorate 
with a finely sliced orange, cut into small pieces, ber- 
ries of any kind, and finally with half a bunch of fresh 
mint. Serve in six punch glasses, and the effect will 
be exceedingly pretty. 

MIXED FRUIT WINE. 

Cherries, black currants and raspberries, mixed to- 
gether, make good wine. Dilute the juice and add the 
usual amount of sugar, and let it ferment; then bottle. 

A SUPERIOR BLACKBERRY WINE. 

Bruise your berries, measure them, and to every 
gallon, add a quart of boiling water. Let this stand 
twenty-four hours, stirring it three or four times during 
this time. The third day strain off the juice, and to 
every gallon of this strained liquor, put two pounds of 
refined sugar. Cork it tight, and let it stand until cool 
weather; when you will have a wine that you will 
never voluntarily be without. 

BLACKBERRY WINE. 

Mash the berries without boiling them ; strain the 
juice, and to six pints of juice, add two pints of water 
and three pounds of sugar. Mix thoroughly and put it, 
in a wide-mouthed stone jar to ferment. Cover it care- 



The Complete Cook Book. - 311 

fully with a cloth, to keep out all insects ; open it and 
skim it every morning; then cover it up again care- 
fully, for much of the bouquet of the wine depends on 
this. When it ceases to ferment, and when cold, cover 
up like jelly. This is an excellent medicine in summer 
for dysentery; but if intended for invalids, you must 
spice it, and add a gill of brandy — fourth proof — to 
each pound of jam. 

TO MAKE CUERANT WINE. 

The currants should be fully ripe when picked, put 
them into a large tub, they need not be separated from 
the stems. After they have remained in the tub a day 
or so, crush them with the hands, unless you have a 
small patent wine press, in which case they should not 
be pressed too much, or the stems will be bruised and 
impart a disagreeable taste to the juice, If the hands 
are used, put the crushed fruit, after the juice has been 
poured off, in a cloth or sack, and press out the remain- 
ing juice. After cleansing the tub, put the juice back 
into it, and allow it to remain three days, or until the 
first stages of fermentation are over, removing once or 
twice a day the scum which rises to the top. Then put 
the juice in a vessel — demijohn, keg or barrel, of a size 
to suit the quantity made, and to each quart of juice 
add three pounds of best yellow sugar, and soft water 
sufficient to make a gallon. Thus ten quarts of juice, 
and thirty pounds of sugar will give you ten gallons of 
wine, and so on in proportion. Those who do not like 
sweet wine, can reduce the quantity of sugar to two and 
a half pounds, and if you wish it very sweet, raise to 
three and a half pounds per gallon. The vessel in 
which this is put must be full, and the bung or stopper 
left off until the fermentation ceases, which will be in 
12 or 15 days. Meanwhile the cask must be filled up 
daily with currant juice left over, as fermentation 
throws out the impure matter. When fermentation 
ceases rack the wine off carefully, either from the spigot 
or by a syphon, and keep running all the time. Cleanse 
the cask thoroughly with boiling water, then return the 
wine, bung up tightly, and let it stand four or five 
months, when it will be fit to drink and can be bottled 



312 The Complete Cook Book. 

if desired. All the operations, the vessels, etc., should 
be scrupulously clean. Brandy or other spirituous 
liquors are not necessary, and if added will detract from 
the flavor of the wine. Currant wine made in this way 
will keep for an age. 

ELDERBEEEY WINE. 

To make elderberry wine pick the berries when quit© 
ripe and dry. Squeeze out the juice in a proper press 
for the purpose. Then put the mashed berries into an 
open jar with juice enough to cover them. Let these 
stand about a week to infuse. Next, strain the juice 
into a cask, and to every ten gallons add one gallon of 
malted spirit. A little sugar and some cloves should 
be added to the brandy. 

WINE SANGAREE OF PORT MADEIRA. 

Take half a glass of water, sweeten it with a table- 
spoonful of white powdered sugar, and stir well until 
dissolved ; add a gill of Madeira or port, some nutmeg 
grated and pounded ice. Serve with lady cake or 
pound cake, cut small. 

MULLED CLARET. 

To prepare mulled claret, take one cup of claret, six 
whole cloves, a little grated nutmeg, one cup of boiling 
water, two or three tablespoonfuls of white sugar, 
twelve whole spices and four inches of stick cinnamon. 
Boil the water with the spices for ten or fifteen minutes, 
then dissolve the sugar in it; remove from the fire, and 
strain into a pitcher containing the claret. This is not 
a summer drink, but can be served as such by placing 
it on ice until quite cold. 

PIQUETTE, THE NEW FRENCH DRINK. 

Five pounds of raisins, five pounds of dried apples 
and five gallons of water. Put in an open cask and let 
stand for three days ; bottle with a half -teaspoonful of 
sugar and a bit of cinnamon in each bottle. Vary the 
flavor to suit the taste. Piquette is really a summer 
beverage, but may be used any time of the year. 



The Complete Cook Book. 313 

THE MACDONALD COCKTAIL. 

Now that cold weather ia coming on the following 
cocktail, which has a great deal of popularity in Eng- 
land, would not be amiss in this country. It is made 
as follows: One-half ginger wine; one-half Scotch 
whisky. Ginger wine is but little used in this coun- 
try but it can be procured from any export house. The 
popular brand used on the other side is Crabbe's. 

KLONDIKE HIGH BALL. 

The above is a very popular drink in Cincinnati, and 
is made the same as any regular high ball with a few 
dashes of orange bitters on top. It makes a very nice 
drink. 

GINGER PUFF. 

Take a large glass one-third full of ice; add spoon- 
ful sugar, one jigger old Tom gin or phosphate gin ; fill 
with good milk, shake well, and put into a tall thin 
glass; squeeze a little lemon peel on top; straw, and 
serve. 

PEACHES IN BRANDY. 

Soak fine peaches in lye until you can remove the 
fuzzy outside; wipe them, and turn them into cold 
water. When you have prepared as many as you de- 
sire, weigh them, and to every pound of fruit, put three- 
quarters of a pound of white sugar. Make a syrup like 
that for preserves, only using less water; boil the 
peaches in the syrup until they are tender ; then take 
them out of the kettle, and place them in jars ; fill the 
jars with a brandy syrup, made of a pint of brandy to 
a pint of the sugar syrup from the peaches. Cook them 
very carefully, and dip the mouths of the jars in rosin 
melted, and keep them in a cool dark place. 

CREME A LA JARDINIERE. 

Take one pound of almond paste and mix with one 
dozen eggs, three ounces of powdered sugar and two 
ounces of flour, melt six ounces of butter and add to the 
mixture; mix well and spread on pan about one quarter 
of an inch thick ; bake. 



314 The Complete Cook Book. 

Filling for Cbeme a la Jardiniere. — Half 
pound of sugar, four ounces bread flour and the yolks 
of eight eggs, mix; put in one quart of milk and let it 
come to a boil, then mix one- half pound of fresh butter, 
flavor with vanilla and cool before putting the filling in ; 
the cake should be sprinkled with maraschino. Frost 
the top with fonda and decorate with green pistache, 
cherries and pignolia. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

Two quarts blackberry juice, one pound loaf sugar, 
four grated nutmegs, one-quarter ounce ground cloves, 
one-quarter ounce ground allspice, one-quarter ounce 
ground cinnamon. Simmer all together, for thirty 
minutes, in a stewpan closely covered, to prevent evapo- 
ration. Strain through a cloth when cold and add a 
pint of the best French brandy. Soothing and effica- 
cious in the summer complaints of children. Dose, one 
teaspoonful poured on a little pounded ice; one for several 
times a day, as the case may require. 

Whortleberry cordial may be made by the same 
recipe. Good old whisky may be used for either, in 
the absence of brandy. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

Half a bushel of berries, well mashed, one-quarter 
pound of allspice (pulverized), two ounces cloves (pul- 
verized). Mix and boil slowly till done. Then strain 
through homespun or flannel, and add one pound white 
sugar to each pint of juice. Boil again, and, when 
cool, add half a gallon best brandy. Good for diarrhoea 
or dystentery. Dose, one teaspoonful or more, accord- 
ing to age. 

DEWBERRY CORDIAL. 

To one quart juice put one pound loaf sugar and boil 
these together fifteen minutes. When cool, add one 
gill brandy, one tablespoonful mace, cloves, and all- 
spice powdered. Bottle and cork tightly. 



The Complete Cook Book. 315 

BLACKBEREY CORDIAL. 

To one quart of blackberry juioe add one pound of 
granulated sugar, one tablespoonful each of cloves, all- 
spice, cinnamon and nutmeg; boil all together fifteen 
minutes; remove vessel from stove, add in one wine- 
glassful of brandy, whisky or rum ; bottle while hot 
and seal jars air-tight; use only one of the liquors men- 
tioned and see that it is of the best quality. 

STRAWBERRY ACID. 

Put twelve pounds fruit in a pan. Cover it with two 
quarts water, having previously acidulated the water 
with five ounces tartaric acid. Let it remain forty- 
eight hours. Then strain, taking care not to bruise the 
fruit. To each pint of juice add one pound and a half 
powdered sugar. Stir till dissolved, and leave a few 
days. Then bottle and cork lightly. If a slight fer- 
mentation takes place, leave the corks out for a few 
days. The whole process to be cold. When put away, 
the bottles must be kept erect. 

ROYAL STRAWBERRY ACID. 
Dissolve two ounces citric acid in one quart spring 
water, which pour over three pounds ripe strawberries. 
After standing twenty-four hours, drain the liquor off, 
and pour it over three pounds more of strawberries. 
Let it stand twenty-four hours more, and again drain 
the liquor off. Add to the liquor its own weight of 
sugar. Boil three or four minutes, put in cool bottles, 
cork lightly for three days, then cork tightly and seal. 

A FINE TEMPERANCE BEVERAGE. 
To the juice of a dozen lemons put one pound and a 
half of double refined sugar, and a picked quart of rasp- 
berries or strawberries ; pare a ripe pineapple and slice 
it, put over it half a pound of sugar, stir the lemon juice 
with the sugar, crush in the berries, slightly bruise the 
pineapple and chop it up in small pieces. Put the 
lemon juice in a large punch bowl, add to it three 
quarts of ice water, then put in the strawberry and pine- 
apple juice, stir it until all the sugar is dissolved, and 
then set it on ice. Serve in punch glasses. 



3i6 The Complete Cook Cook. 

CHAMPAGNE PUNCH. 

Add to the above mixture a bottle of champagne, and 
a bottle of white wine, and you have a very delicious 
punch for festive occasions. 

GINGER BEER. 

A thoroughly good ginger beer is made as follows : 
One gallon of boiling water, one ounce of the best 
bruised ginger, the same quantity of cream of tartar, 
one pound of loaf sugar. Put all together and stir 
till the sugar is dissolved. Leave until it is warm as 
new milk, then add a dessertspoonful of yeast on a 
small piece of bread. Cover the pan with a cloth and 
leave for a whole day. Then strain and bottle. Be 
careful not to fill the bottles too full, or thy will burst. 
Cork tightly and tie down. This will be fit to drink 
after two days, but will keep longer. 

SIROP DE GROSEILLE (CURRANT SYRUP). 

It is made of one quart of strained currant juice, one 
and one-half pounds of sugar, boiled ten minutes; it 
should be skimmed well. Remiove from the fire, and 
when still slightly warm, add one-half gill of brandy 
to every pint of the liquid. Bottle tightly. If in the 
season the juice sweetened alone makes the most fra- 
grant drink. But to conserve it the brandy is neces- 
sary. 

BRENTON LEMONADE. 

According to the quantity needed alter the following 
formula : One tablespoon of powdered sugar, one-half 
juice of lemon ; half fill each glass with cracked ice 
and a tablespoon of orange juice. Color pinkish (opal- 
escent) with drops of strawberry syrup and garnish with 
lemon verbena leaves or scented geranium. 

SIR ROGER DE COVERLY. 

Sir Roger de Coverly is a beverage known in France 
long before the ancient Briton had only blue paint for 
his surtout. This is the formula for each portion : One 
tablespoonful of powdered sugar, one-half juice of lemon, 



The Complete Cook Book. 317 

one slice of orange, one slice of peach or apricot. Place 
in alternate layers with ice or snow to two-thirds full. 
Fill each with soda or any sparkling ^ater. Add a 
teaspoonf ul of raspberry juice and a spear of fresh mint. 

ALSACE LOEEAINE. 

To each goblet allow one tablespoon of sugar, one and 
one-half glasses of water, and mix these intimately. 
Put in one and one-half glasses of white wine, fill 
with snow or shaved ice, ornament with a slice of 
orange, strawberries in season; if not let the syrup 
trickle through the snow and three to five white and 
pinkish grapes. Straws or glass tubes are served with 
this. 

BISCHOFF (TWELFTH CENTURY). 

Stick an orange well with cloves and roast it a light 
brown before the fire. Heat one quart of port wine and 
pour it over the orange cut in light pieces. Add sugar 
to taste and a quart of hot water. Simmer for an hour 
and serve in cups. 

BISCHOFF (NINETEENTH CENTURY). 

Prepare in a bowl powdered sugar to well sweeten a 
dozen lemons, peel and pulp, rejecting the seeds, add 
four oranges, then three bottles of grapes or Sauterne, 
and the same quantity of ApoUinaris. Strain into table 
caraffes. Put them on ice to chill, and to each goblet 
add a slice of lemon, very thin, and two or three fresh 
strawberries. 

LEMONADE. 

Take about half a pint of boiling water and two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar to each lemon of medium size. 
Lemons vary so in size it is impossible to give exact 
rule. Squeeze the lemons well, and for this purpose 
the glass lemon extractor is most desirable; add the 
sugar; cover with the fresh boiling water, and stir un- 
til all the sugar is dissolved. When cold, strain 
through a cheese cloth, cover and place in the ice chest 
until ready to serve. Crush some ice until fine almost 



3i8 The Complete Cook Book. 

as snow in a bag, kept especially for such purposes, 
made of some coarse heavy material, such as duck or 
bed ticking. Fill the glasses half-full with the cracked 
ice, cover with the liquid, and the result will be a 
syrupy, delicious beverage, cold, clear and refreshing. 
The advantage of this method cannot be overestimated 
in the event of expected guests, as it can be made early, 
requiring only a few moments' time to finish just before 
serving. With plain lemonade made as a foundation 
there is practically no limit to the many excellent 
varieties which are possible. A slice of orange in each 
glass and a little orange juice can be added ; grated or 
sliced pineapple is liked by many, or a comlDination of 
both gives delicious flavor. A few maraschino cherries 
floating in each glass look tempting, and this is quite 
the correct thing; or small fresh fruits of any kind, es- 
pecially strawberries or cherries, make agreeable sub- 
stitutes. Fruit syrups of any kind, a tablespoonful or 
less to a glass, give color and flavor, and of these, rasp- 
berry is perhaps the favorite. The addition of seltzer 
water makes seltzer lemonade, or of claret, claret 
lemonade. 

UNFEKMENTED GEAPE JUICE. 

Wash the grapes, free them from the stems, reject 
all that are not sound, and place in a granite kettle. 
Add only enough water to cover, bring slowly to the 
boiling point, cook until the fruit is well softened, then 
drain as for jelly. Place the drained juice in an earthen- 
ware dish and keep, well covered, in a cool place. The 
next morning bring to a boil, let it boil up well, then 
drain through a jelly bag. Continue this for three suc- 
cessive mornings, rejecting all sediment each time. 
The last morning measure the juice, and to each quart 
allow half a pound of granulated sugar. Boil four 
minutes, strain through a cheese cloth, bottle, cork 
and seal immediately. Dilute with water when ready 
to use and serve in glasses half filled with cracked ice. 
This is not only very refreshing, but very nourishing as 
well. Seltzer or Apollinaris water can be used instead 
of the clear water with most excellent results 



The Complete Cook Book. 319 

STRAWBERRY, CHERRY OR CURRANT 
SHRUB. 

For this purpose always use very ripe fruit. Add a 
cupful of water to each quart of fruit, place in a granite 
kettle and cook until well softened ; then press out all 
the juice as for jelly, and strain through a cheese cloth. 
Allow a cupful of sugar to each pint of juice. Boil to 
a syrup, not thicker, and strain through a cheese cloth. 
Bottle at once, while hot. Press in the corks, dip into 
hot sealing wax and label. Use, diluted to taste with 
water, adding cracked ice to make very cold. These 
directions are for the syrups which can be kept any 
length of time. In season, if wanted for immediate 
use, obtain the juice as directed. When cold, sweeten 
and dilute to taste and serve in glasses half filled with 
cracked ice. 

RASPBERRY SYRUP. 

For this purpose never use other than the red rasp- 
berry." Get some nice ripe berries, put them, after care- 
fully looking them over, into a large crock and bruise 
them well. Let them stand, well covered, in a cool 
place over night. In the morning press out the juice, 
but do not press too thoroughly, as the same berries can 
be used in making raspberry vinegar. To a pint of 
the strained juice thus obtained, allow a pint of granu- 
lated sugar, and boll together about five minutes, or 
until it is a rather thick syrup, but not until it jellies. 
Strain through a cheese cloth and bottle. Cork while 
hot, then dip each cork in melted sealing wax to make 
perfectly air-tight. Label and put in a cool, dry place. 
After a bottle has been opened, it will keep quite a 
while without fermenting, if kept well corked and in a 
cool, dry place, or in the ice chest. To use, allow about 
two tablespoonfuls or less to a glass of water. Pour 
the water slowly over the syrup, stirring well to thor- 
oughly blend, and add plenty of cracked ice to make 
quite cold. This will be found a very inexpensive and 
refreshing summer beverage. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Take the berries partially pressed, as directed in the 



320 The Complete Cook Book. 

previous recipe, and cover with clear, cold vinegar. 
Let them stand well covered in a crook or earthen dish 
until the next morning, keeping them in the cellar or 
other cool place. Press out very dry and to a pint of 
juice thus obtained allow half a pint of granulated 
sugar. Boil together to a syrup, strain through a 
cheese cloth, then bottle, cork and seal immediately. 
Use as directed for raspberry syrup, diluting to taste 
with water. Many persons prefer this to the syrup, it 
being much more tart. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET. 

Take fifteen ounces of picked strawberries, crush them 
in a mortar, then add to them a quart of water; pour 
this into a basin, with a sliced lemon, and a teaspoon- 
f ul of orange-flower water ; let it remain for two or three 
hours. Put eighteen ounces of sugar into another 
basin, cover it with a cloth, through which pour the 
strawberry juice, after as much has run through as 
will; gather up the cloth, and squeeze out as much 
juice as possible from it; when the sugar is all dis- 
solved, strain it again. Set the vessel containing it 
on ice, until ready to serve. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

Squeeze the juice from a large can of grated pine- 
apple and add to it the strained juice of one lemon and 
two oranges ; add two quarts of water and three cups 
of sugar, and freeze. 

ORANGE SHERBET. 

Grate the rind of four oranges on two and one-half 
cupfuls of sugar. Add to it one quart of water; put it 
in a double boiler and cook to a clear syrup, being very 
careful to remove all the scum. Remove from the fire 
and strain through a fine muslin cloth. When cold, 
add the strained juice of twelve oranges and two lemons 
and one pint of cold water. If not sweet enough, add 
more sugar. Strain it and freeze. 

THE END. 



INDEX TO 

The Complete Cook Book. 



INDEX. 



SOUPS. 



Asparagus Soup 23 

. Beef Soup 20 

Brunswick Stew 31 

Brunswick Stew 32 

Cabbage Soup 22 

Celery Soup — Snough to Serve to Six People 24 

Chicken Gumbo with Oysters 28 

Clam Stew 31 

Consomme 25 

Cream Pea Soup 27 

Cream of Tomatoes 29 

Egg Balls for Chicken Broth 34 

Egg Soup 27 

General Remarks it 

Green Corn Soup 24 

Green Pea Soup 27 

Gumbo 23 

Home-made Noodles for Soup 33 

Irish Stew ". 32 

Little Egg Balls 34 

Mammy Silvey's Noodle Soup • 23 

My Mother's Oyster Soup 29 

New Orleans Crab Gumbo— Very Fine 30 

Noodles 34 

Noodles for Soup 33 

Okra Soup 22 

Onion Soup 25 

Original Brain Soup — Delicious 21 

Oxtail Stew 31 

Oyster Bisque 30 

Oyster Soup — ^New Orleans 30 

Potato Puree 26 

Potato Soup 26 

Puree of Chicken 21 

Puree of Green Peas 26 



il Index. 

Scotch Hunting Pottage 32 

Sister Mollle's Tomato Bisque 22 

Sister Mollie's Tomato Soup 21 

Soup Balls 33 

Soupe a la Relne 20 

Split Pea Soup 25 

Stock for All Kinds of Soups 19 

Turtle Soup f. 29 

Tomato Soup with Vegetables — ^Very Fine 28 

White Broth 19 



SHELL nSH. 

A Clam Bake 48 

A Dainty Way to Serve Lobster 40 

Angels on Horseback 39 

Broiled Lobster 42 

Broiled Live Lobster . 43 

Cream Oysters in the Shell 38 

Crabs on Toast 45 

Deviled Crabs 44, 47 

Deviled Lobster 44 

Deviled Oysters 38 

Bscalloped Oysters 35 

Fricassee of Crab 46 

Fried Frog Legs 47 

Fried Oysters 37 

Lobster 40 

Lobster a la Newberg 40, 41 

Oysters 35 

Oysters for Chafing Dish 36 

Oyster Cocktails — Original 37 

Oysters Cooked in the Shells 38 

Oysters, Duchesse Style 39 

Oyster Fricassee 36 

Panned Oysters 36 

Pigs in Blankets 38 

Sauteed Oysters 35 

Scalloped Crabs — New Orleans 45 

Scalloped Crabs with Mushrooms 46 

Scalloped Oysters or Scalloped Clams 37 

Soft Shell Crabs .44, 45, 46 

Terrapin — University Club Style 48 

To Prepare Frogs' Lega 47 



Ind&c. iii 



nsH. 

Anchovy Soufflee 59 

A Seasonable Entree 54 

Baked Fish a la Cteole 55 

Broiled Spanish Mackerel and Pompano , 53 

Codfish 57 

Codfish Cakes 58 

Crayflsih Bisque — a Creole Dish 59 

Cream Shrimps 62 

Croquettes of Salmon 5S 

Curried Shrimps 61 

Deviled Shrimps 61 

Deviled Sardines on Toast. , 58 

Deviled Shrimps — ^New Orleans 61 

Haddie 59 

Halibut Timball 56 

Impenada 53 

Perfect Codfish Balls 58 

Planked Shad — Southern Style 55 

Red Snapper — ^with Mexican Sauce 56 

Salmon Creajms 60 

Salmon Puffs 54 

Shad Roe Sauce 55 

Shrimp Casoslettes 61 

To Bake Fish 52 

To Boil Pish 51 

To Fry Fish. 50 

To Broil Fish 50 



POULTRY AND GAME. 

A Dish Rabbit ....<, 89 

As to Roasting , 65 

Barbecued Rabbit 91 

Boned Turkey — A La Prosperity of America 70 

Boiled Chickens 76 

Braised Ducks 81 

Brown Gravy for Roast Goose or Gosling 78 

Broiled Chicken 75 

Broiled Venison 88 

Chicken Fricassee 72 

Chicken Flap Jacks — Original.... 74 

Chicken Forcemeat • 76 

Chicken Timbales 74, 76 

Canvas-Back Ducks Broiled 80 

Canvas-Back Ducks Roasted 80 

Ducks, Tame and Wild = 79 

English Snipe— Broiled 83 



iv Index. 

Erastus' Turkey 63 

Fried Rabbit 91 

Giblet Gravy for Roast Goose or Gosling 78 

Goose Witt Chestnuts a la Ohlpolita 78 

Grandmother's Fried Chicken 71 

Gravy 73 

Gravy for Ducks 81 

Hare — Roasted, StufEed 90 

Hare or Rabbit, Roasted 91 

How to Cook a Turkey 65 

How to Cook and Carve the Thanksgivin'g Turkey 67 

Mock Pheasant 82 

My Mother's Chicken Pie 72 

My Mother's Stewed Chicken 72 

My Mother's Stewed Squirrel 92 

Oyster StuflSng for Turkey 69 

Pheasants 85 

Pigeon Pie 87 

Plain Chicken Pie 75 

Plover 83 

Quails 83 

Quail Pies 84 

Quails Broiled with Bacon 85 

Quails Roasted — ^Plain 84 

Rabbit 89 

Roast Birds 81 

Roast Chicken 73 

Roast Ducks 80, 81 

Roast Goose 77 

Roast Rabbit 91 

Roast Turkey 68 

Roasted Grouse 77 

Roasted Partridges 86 

Saddle of Venison — Jelly Sauce 88 

Salmis of Partridges 86 

Salmis of Woodcock 83 

Scotch Stew of Grouse 77 

Silvy's Broiled Quail 84 

Smothered Chicken 75 

Snipes §3 

Squabs Broiled on Toast, with Bacon 87 

Squirrels Stewed 92 

Squirrel, or Young Rabbit Pie 92 

Stewed Rabbits 89 

Substitute for Roast Duck 79 

To Barbecue Squirrel 93 

To Broil Partridges 85 

To Cook Partridges and Pheasants 87 

Venison 88 

Woodcocks 82 



Index, 



ROASTS, ETC. 

A Famous Dish 102 

Baked Beef — French Style 98 

Boiled Leg of Mutton 104 

Boiled Leg of- Mutton or Lamb ^ . , . io3 

Braising Beef 98 

Braised Beef a la Francalse 97 

Braised Beef a la Morlaisienne , 97 

Braised Leg of Mutton 100 

Fillet of Beef 100 

Gravy for Roast Beef 100 

Kentucky Stuffed Ham 104 

Leg of Mutton — Caper Sauce 102 

Most Delicious Boiled Ham 103 

Remarks on Boiling Meats 103 

Rib Roast 96 

Roast Beef 95 

Roasted Beefsteaks 99 

Roast Lamb 100 

Roast from the Round ' 96 

Roast Tenderloin a la Hussard 97 

Saddle or Loin of Mutton or Lamb 101 

Saddle of Mutton — Roasted, Plain 101 

Tenderloin Pique a la Francalse. 98 

Tenderloin Pique a la Portuguese 97 

The Back of the Rump 96 

To Roast Beef in a Stove 99 

To Roast a Sucking Pig 102 

Veal Cecils 100 



STEAKS AND CHOPS. 

Baked Tripe 110 

Beefsteak with Pale Ale 108 

Broiled Lamb Chops 110 

Broiled Mutton Chops 109 

Broiled Steak 107 

Epicurean Beefsteak 106 

Fried Mutton Chops 109 

Gravy for Steaks and Chops 108 

Hamburg Steak 107 

Lamb or Mutton Chops 109 

Mutton Chops, Breaded 109 

Mutton Chops a la Provenoale 110 

Pan-Broiled Steak 105 

Pork Chops — ^Fried 110 

Porterhouse Steak 108 

Sirloin Steak, with Green Peppers 106 



vi inaex. 

Sirloin Steak Larded 108 

Stewed Steak with Oysters 105 

Stuffed Steak 107 

To Fry a Steak to Taste as if Broiled 106 



VEGETABLES, CEREALS, ETC 

A Fine Way to Cook Rice 136 

A Mushroom Savory 131 

A Nice Way to Cook Okra or Gumbo 132 

A Southern Dish 119 

A Valuable Table 113 

Asparagus 128 

Asparagus in Ambush 120 

Asparagus and Eggs 128 

Baked Potatoes 117 

Baked Tomatoes 121 

Beans and Peppy 133 

Boiled Corn — Mother's Recipe 121 

Boiled Hominy 136 

Boiled Onions 121 

Broiled Potatoes 113 

Boiled Potatoes 118 

Boilfed Rice 136 

Boston Baked Beans 135 

Cabbage and Scrambled Eggs 125 

Cauliflower 119 

Cauliflower and Cheese 130 

Chicken and Potato Cakes 116 

Corned Beef and Cabbage 125 

Corn Fritters 122 

Corn Oysters 122 

Corn Pudding 123 

Delicious Creamed Potatoes 115 

Fricassee of Corn and Okra 123 

Fried Egg Plant 124 

Fried Egg Plant (No. 2) 124 

Fried Hominy 137 

Fried Mush 137 

Pried Onions 122 

Fried Parsnips 126 

Fried Potatoes 114 

Fried Raw Potatoes 118 

Fried Tomatoes 127 

Grandmother's Stuffed Cabbage 125 

Grandmother's Stuffed Potatoes 117 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 118 

Hot Salt Potatoes 113 

Lima Beans 129 



Index. y}l 

Mashed Potatoes no 

Motli€ir It's Mill Creek Potatoes 114 

Novel Stuffed Peppers .'.*!!!'.'.'. ".'.'.'.".'.','.' 123 

OKra •....o...., •..••..,■■,,,,,,„,,,,, -I oq 

Parsnips !!!...!!! 126 

Peppers and Eggs— Excellent .'.'.'.'. '..'.'. ','.'.'..'. 121 

Potato Cakes \\ n^ 

Potato Cakes with Eggs !.'.!.'!,'.,!.! us 

Potato Diimplings .!!!,!, 115 

Potato Dftughnuts .','.'.'.' lie 

Potatoes ind Breakfast Bacon .!..!!*.'.. 117 

Potatoes aid Vegetables '.*.". 112 

Preparing and Cooking ." ." m 

Roasted Potatoes ! . 115 

Saratoga Potatoes 119 

Scalloped Corn !.!!!!.'.'!! 123 

Scalloped Potatoes !!!!!'.!!! 117 

Scalloped Tomatoes ".!'.!'.!!'.'. 127 

Shrimps and Bell Peppers .......' 120 

Scrambled Tomatoes , 132 

Southern Sliced Sweet Potatoes .....'. 115 

Steamed Rice 135 

Stewed Carrots .'..".!! 130 

Stewed Corn 123 

Stewed Hominy 136 

Stewed Irish Potatoes 114 

Stewed Peanuts 131 

Stewed Peas 124 

Stewed Squash 124 

Stewed Tomatoes 127 

String Beans 125 

Stuffed and Baked Egg Plant 128 

Stuffed Bell Peppers 120 

Stufeed Baked Tomatoes 127 

Stuffed Egg Plant 129 

Stuffed Spanish Onions — Original 129 

Stuffed Sweet Potatoes 118 

Stuffed Tomatoes 119, 131 

Succotasl 128 

Sweet or Irish Potato Puffs 115 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 114 

To Stew Mushrooms -. 132 

Tomatoes Dressed Individually 126 

Tomatoes 126 

Turnips 130 

Turnip Salad or Spring Greens 130 

Winter Dish of Baked Beans and Pork 134 



viii Index. 



CROQUETTES, CXITLETS, ETC. 

Baked Hash 114 

Beef or Veal Hash li<5 

Brain Croquettes — ^Very Fine 140 

Chicken and Brain Cutlets 139 

Chicken Croquettes 113 

Chicken En Coquille 144 

Coquilles 143 

Creamed Chicken 143 

Delicious Chicken Croquettes — Original 110 

Egg Cutlets 138 

Excellent Meat Fritters 142 

Frizzled Beef (No. 1) 146 

Frizzled Beef (No. 2) 146 

Hash — Very Fine 145 

Hash Cakes 144 

Hash Croquettes 142 

Liver Cutlets — Original 110 

Meat To«ist 140 

My Mother's Turkey Hash 115 

Nevada Lobster Cutlets 138 

Porcupine Croquettes 141 

Potato Croquettes 142 

San Francisco Chicken Cutlets 138 

Sausage Loaf 147 

Sweet Bread Croquettes 141 

Sweet Bread Cutlets 139 

Tongue Loaf •■ 147 

Veal, Beef or Chicken Croquettes 141 

VeaJ Loaf 146 



RELISHES AND ENTREES. 

Baked Cheese Pudding 155 

Brain Griddle Cakes 158 

Braised Tongue — ^English Style 156 

Chafing Dish Cheese 153 

Cheese Ek:laires 153 

Cheese Puffs 153 

Cheese Sandwiches 150 

Cheese Tarts <>. 155 

Cheese Toast 150 

Chicken Sandwiches 149 

Chicken Tamales 160 

Chili Con Came 159 

Club Sandwiches. 149 

Creamed Macaroni with Cheese 154 



Index. ix 

Deviled Cold Chicken 158 

Deviled Meat 157 

Egg Sandwiches 149 

Egg Toast 151 

Fried Brains — Original 158 

Ham Toast for Luncheon 150 

Ham and Tongue Toast 150 

Ham and Tongue Sandwiches 148 

Hot Tamales .* 159 

Iced Parmesan Pyramids 156 

Luncheon Toast 151 

Macaroni or Spaghetti and Grated Cheese 152 

Mutton Ragout 157 

Noodles — Original 152 

Nut Sandwiches 150 

Piquant Sandwiches 148 

Raviola — Original 151 

Sandwiches 148 

Sardine Sandwiches — Original 149 

Scalloped Cheese 155 

Spanish Tamales 158 

Spiced Beef 156 

Welsh Barebit 157, 158 



SALADS AND DRESSINGS. 

Apple Salad 164 

Chicken Salad — Original T54 

Frozen Cucumber Salad — Original 162 

French Salad Dressing 168 

Frozen Tomato Salad 165 

Lettuce Salad — Original 164 

Lobster Salad 163 

Mayonnaise — Original 168 

Mixed Salad 165 

Mother R.'s Cold Slaw 166 

Mother R.'s Warm Cream Slaw 167 

Potato Salad ' • • 162 

Shrimp or Salmon Salad lo^ 

Salad Dressings 168 

Salad Dressing Without Oil io» 

Shrimp Salad " ' 

Sour Cream Salad Dressing Vce i c? 

Sweetbread Salad ...ibb, lb? 

Tomato Salad— Original jbo 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Chestnuts iw 



Index. 



SAUCES FOR MEATS, GAME, ETC. 

A Good Boiled Dressing 183 

A Nice Sauce to be Served with Frogs' Legs 178 

Apple Sauce for Roast Pig 179 

Baked Apples , 180 

Bechamel Sauce 172 

Bread Sauce for Game 181 

Caper Sauce — Served with Boiled Lamb 173 

Celery Sauce 175 

Chestnut Sauce for Turkey or Fowls 175 

Chicken Diplomate 178 

Chicken Sauce 180 

Cranberry Sauce — Served with Turkey 174 

Compote of Apples 179 

EJgg Sauce— To be Served with Boiled Fish or Poultry 174 

French Mushroom Sauce for Steak 177 

Fried Apples for Fried Pork 180 

Garnishes 182 ■ 

Green Pea Sauce 180 

Hints on the Use of Mustard ; 170 

Horse Radish Sauce (No. 2) 171 

Hot Mint Sauce 172 

Lemon Sauce for Fish 176 

Maitre D'Hotel Sauce 181 

Mint Sauce — Serve with Spring Lamb 171 

Mushroom Sauce 175, 176 

Mushroom Sauce for Compote of Pigeons or Steak 171 

Onion Sauce 177 

Original HoUandaise Sauce 182 

Piquant Sauce 173 

Salad Mayonnaise - 178 

Sauce Bemaise— Serve with Broiled Steak 173 

Sauce Piquante 176 

Sauce Tartare 171 

Sauce for Roast Beef v 172 

Sauce tO' be Served with Lettuce 174 

Seasoning for Sausage Meat 182 

Sister Mollie's Horse Radish Sauce 170 

Steak Sauce 175 

Stewed Apple Sauce 179 

Sweet Herbs 175 

Thick Cream Sauce for Croquettes and Patties 181 

Tomato Sauce 171 

Tomato Sauce — Serve with Stealo or Roast Beef 172 

To Make French Mustard 176 

To Prepare "Buerre Noir" 183 

Vinagrette Sauce 179, 182 

White Sauce 177, 178 

White Sauce — To be Served with Croquettes 173 



Index. 



EGGS. 

Bafeed Eggs 186 

Boiled Eggs 189 

Eggs , ,. 184 

Eggs, Au Cratin, for Iisnt 187 

Eggs Au Soleil 186 

Egg Chops , 189 

Egg Pies 191 

Eggs for Easter Day 184 

Eggs in a Nest 184 

Egg Vermicelli 185 

Grandfather's Scrambled Eggs 190 

Grandmother's Baked Omelet 188 

Oeufs a la Chrlatohpe Oolomb 186 

Omelets 187 

Omelet Souffle 188 

Orange Omelet 191 

Plain Omelet .". 187 

Poached Eggs 190 

Shirred Eggs 185, 190 

Stuffed Eggs 189 

Stuffed Eggs and Anchovies 191 

Vermicelli Eggs — 186 

BREADS, ROLLS, ETC. 

A Nice Way to Make Yeast Powder Biscuit. 199 

Baking Powder Biscuits ._. 202 

Baltimore Rolls ) 201 

Boiled Potato Yeast 193 

Boston Brown Bread 195 

Bread 193 

Bread Sticks 200 

Compressed Yeast Bread 195 

Corn and Whole Wheat Muffins 200 

Corn Batter Bread. 197 

Corn Waffles 204 

Corn Fritters 207 

Dough 194 

Egg Bread, or Com Pone 203 

Flannel Cakes 207 

Flour Muffins 204 

French Bread P' 

French Rolls 201 

German Horns 200 

Good Corn Meal Gems 207 

How to Choose the Flour 192 

Hotir to Prepare the Dough for French Bread 196 



xil Index. 

Light Bread — ^Invariably Good 196 

Light Corn Bread 198 

Light Flour Puffs for Breakfast 198 

Mammy Silvy's Beaten Biscuits 202 

Mammy Silvy's Wafflea 205 

Milk Bread — ^With Sponge 196 

Mississippi C!ora Bread 198 

Mother R.'3 Buckwheat Cakes 206 

Mother R.'s Com Meal Griddle Cakes 207 

Mother R.'s Com Meal Mhfflns 203 

Mother R.'s Dry Bread Griddle Cakes 206 

Mother's Bread 194 

Mother's Yeast 193 

My Mother's Buttermilk and Soda Biscuits 203 

My Mother's Com Meal Muffins 205 

Parker House Rolls 204 

Pocketbooks, for Tea— Very Much Liked 199 

Popovers ■ 205 

Raised Tea Biscuit 201 

Remarks on Griddle Cakes 206 

Rolls 202 

Rolls for Breakfast 199 

Salt Rising Yeast 192 

Salt, or Milk, Rising for Bread, and How to Bake It 192 

Sally Lunn ,.. 206 

Sour Milk Corn Cakes 208 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 208 

Southern Hoe Cakes 205 

Swedish Rolls 201, 203 

Virginia Rolls 198 



PIES, CAKES, PASTRY, ETC 

Angel Food Cake — Always Reliable 218 

Apple Fritters 229 

Apple Pie 211 

Apple Pot Pie 214 

Apple Syrup Pie 214 

Baked Apple Dumplings 232 

Baked Apple Roll 232 

Berry Pie 213 

Boiled Chocolate Glace 222 

Bride's Cake — ^A Splendid Recipe 219 

Cake Making 215 

Caramel Cake 217 

Chocolate Caramel Cake 221 

Chocolate Icing 222. 

Chocolate Layer Csike 219 

Charlotte Polonaise 218 

Cocoanut Pie 213 



Index. xlii 

Crullers ,, 226 

Cream Puffs 231 

Custard Pie .........."....! ..... 213 

Directions for Making and Baking Pies, Tarts, Etc. .". . . . . . 209 

Doughnuts 226 

Doughnuts Without Yeast .'.'. 226 

Egg Kisses 223 

Entire Wheat Cookies 223 

Family Pie Crust— Short 210 

Farina Cake 34 

Fig Cake ..!."!."!!!." 220 

Fritter Batter 228 

Fruit Cake ." 2l7 

Fruit Sponge Cake ]". 221 

French Cream Cake 216 

Ginger Snaps 223 

Ginger Bread 224 

Ginger Drops 224 

Good Recipes for Shells or Patty Cases , . 230 

Grandmother's Charlotte Russe— Delicious 231 

Grandmother's Mince Meat 215 

Icing 222 

Jelly Cake , 216 

Lady Locks 230 

Lemon Pie 213 

Marlborough Apple Tarts — Very Fine 233 

Marshmallow Baskets 224 

Modern Strawberry Shortcake 221 

Mother R.'s Lemon Pie 212 

Nut Layer Cake 220 

Orange Pie 212 

Patty Shells 230 

Peach Fritters 229 

Pecan Kisses 222 

Pie Crust 209, 210 

Plain Fritters ^ 229 

Pound Cake 216 

Puff Paste 227 

Puff Paste— Remarks 227 

Puff Pie Crust 211 

Pumpkin Pie 212 

Queen Fritters 228 

Roglets 231 

Sister Bettie's Sugar Cake 219 

Sister Mollle's Jumbles 225 

Snow Cake 219 

Soft Gingerbread 224 

Soft Molasses Cookies 223 

Sour Milk Doughnuts Without Yeast 226 

Southern Molasses Pie 214 

Southern Sliced Sweet Potato Pie 211 



ziv Index. 

Spice Cake— My Mother's 217 

Sponge Cake 216 

Sponge Gingerbread 224 

Strawberry Trifle 225 

To Make Pie Crust Flaky 210 

Wafers 227 

White Sponge Cake 219 



DESSERTS, ETC 

A Fruit Dessert 249 

A Nice Dessert of Apples 254 

A Rich Steamed Pudding 236 

Apple Charlotte 251 

Apple Compote 249 

Apple Souffle 249 

Apples with Rice 252 

Apricot Mould 250 

Baked Bananas 253 

Baked' Indian Pudding 241 

Bread Pudding 237 

Baked Quinces 254 

Baked Sweet Apples 252 

Bavarian Cream 248 

Blanc Mange 248 

Blanc Mange— Very Fine 248 

Boiled Custard 245 

Boiled Suet Pudding 239 

Brandy Sauce — ^For Plum Pudding 243 

Caramel Pudding 239 

Caramel Sauce 243 

Christmas Plum Pudding 235 

Cocoanut Pudding 238 

Compote of Apples 250 

Cornstarch Blanc Mange 249 

Cornstarch Pudding 238 

Cottage Pudding 238 

Cream Sauce 243 

Creole Orange Custard 246 

Crisped Bananas with Creamed Rice 247 

Delicious Bread Pudding 237 

English^ Plum Pudding 234 

SFjOzen Custard 245 

Frozen Pudding , 237 

Fruit Jelly 256 

Gelatine Jelly 256 

Grandmother's Snow Custard 246 

Hard Sauce , 242, 244 

Italian Custard 246 

Italian Jelly, or Fruit Moulded in Jelly. 254 



Index, XV 

Lemoa Butter 250 

Lemoa Jelly 254 

L>emon Sauce 242 

Macaroon Pudding '.[,', 236 

Molasses Sauce 243 

Mother R.'s Rice Pudding ! ! 239 

Mrs. Spenoe's Pudding 241 

Nesselrode Pudding ...235 

Nice Boiled Custard 247 

Orange Baskets 255 

Orange Baskets (No. 2) 255 

Orange Cream 251 

Orange Charlotte 247 

Orange Jelly 256 

Orange Pudding 236, 240 

Peach Cobblers of a Hundred Years Ago 245 

Pineapple Hash 253 

Puddings 234 

Rice Pudding with Prunes 237 

Roly-Poly Pudding 241 

Silvy's Sweet Potato Custard 245 

Southern Sweet Potato Pudding 240 

Spanish Cream 252 

Special Wine Jelly 251 

Strawberry Cottage Pudding 240 

Strawberries with Orange 250 

Syllabub 250 

Tapioca and Rice , 239 

Tapioca with Apples or Peaches 254 

Water Sauce 244 

Whip Syllabub 251 

Whipped Cream Sauce 242 

Wine Sauce 242, 244 

ICE CREAM. 

Caramel Ice Cream 258 

Chocolate Ice Cream 259 

CoICee Ice Cream 257 

Ginger Ice Cream — Original 258 

Macaroon Ice Cream 259 

My Mother's Strawberry Ice Cream ^ . 258 

Neapolitaine Ice Cream. 261 

Orange Cream 257 

Orange Ice Cream ^|* 

Peach Cream ^°" 

Peach Ice Cream ^°^ 

Pineapple Ice Cream ^^" 

Rich Ice Cream fit 

Russian Cream ;*' 

Vanilla Mousse ..» ^''^ 



xvi JndesB. 



CX5FFEE, TEA, CHOCOLATE, ETC 

Cafe au Lait (Coffee with Milk) 266 

Cafe au Lalt a la St. Gottardo 2«1 

Cafe Nolr L'AIezander the Great 266 

Chocolate 268 

Coffee 262 

CoSee a la Francadse. ......: 263 

Coffee— Boiled .1 265 

Coffee by Percolation. 265 

How to Make Black Coffee 265 

How to Roast Coffee 263 

Iced Tea 267 

Making Coffee^By An Old Coffee-Maker 263 

Roasting Coffee 262 

Sadie's Coffee 264 

Tea — Green and Black 267 

To Make Chocolate 267 

To Make Chocolate Another Way 268 

PRESERVING, CANNING, ETC. 

Another Way to Preserve Peaches 274 

Apple Butter 284 

Apple Preserves 278 

Canning Strawberries and Raspberries 273 

Crab Apple Jelly .' 280 

Crab Apple, Wild Apple, or Porter Apple Jelly 279 

Cranberry Jelly 281 

Currant Jelly 281 

Currant Jelly (No. 2) 281 

Currant, Raspberry or Blackberry Jam 283 

Fig Preserves 277 

Fig Preserves (No. 2) 277 

Formula for Preserving 269 

Grape Jam 283 

Grape Jelly 280, 282 

Grape Preserves 277 

Green Grape Jelly 282 

Jlints on Preserving. 269 

How to Soften Rubbers and Make Them Nearly as Good 

as New 271 

How to Make Tuita Frulta, or the Art of Preserving All 

Fruits as They Come in Their Season 284 

Jama 282 

Orange Miarmalajae— iDelicious 284 

Peach Mangoes 275 

Preserved Pears 275 

Preserved Quincee 277 



Index. xvH 

Quince Jelly 280 

Raspberry Jam 283 

Strawberry Jam 283 

Strawberry Preserves 278 

Strawberry Sun Preserves ''. 276 

To Can Fruits, Berries and Tomatoes by the Hot Air Gen- 
erated from Oven of Sitove or Range 270 

The Improved Method of Canning Strawberries and Rasp- 
berries by Simply Compounding a Syrup — No Other Ber- 
ries Can be Done This Way 272 ' 

Tomato Butter 284 

To Make Any Kind of Fruit Jelly 278 

To Make Jelly From Any Kind of Berries 279 

To Make Preserves of Citron or Watermelon Rind 276 

To Preserve Peaches 274 

To Test to See if Air-Tight 271 



PICKLES, ETC 

Canteloupe Pickle 291 

Chili Sauce 295 

Chopped Cabbage Pickle 288 

Chow-Chow Pickle 290 

Grandmother's Mango Pickle 287 

Green Tomato Pickle 289 

Green Tomato Sweet Pickle 288, 290 

Hints on Their Management 286 

Jack's Gingered Pears 290 

Mother's Peach Sweet Pickle 287 

Mother's Whole Cabbage Pickle — To Maiie the Liquor. . . 289 

My Mother's Chopped Cabbage Pickle 289 

Oil Cucumbers 292 

Premium Mustard Pickle 290 

Raisin Pickle 288 

Stuffed Cucumbers 292 

Stuffed Bell Pepper Pickles 291 

The Most Improved Method for Making Pickles 286 

To Pickle Onions 291 

Tomato Catsup 293 

Tomato Catsup (No. 2) 293 

Tomato Catsup (No. 3) 294 

Tomato Catsup— Recipe for Making a Small Quantity 294 

Tomato Soy 295 

Tomato Soy— Fine 294 



zviii Indai. 



CANDIES, ETC. 

Another Cream Candy 298 

Brandied Cherries 307 

Butter Scotch 298, 299, 301 

Candy Making 296 

Chocolate Caramels 300, 301 

Chocolate Creams 298 

Chocolate Kisses 300 

Clear Peanut Candy 302 

Cocoanut Balls 297 

Cocoanut Bars 302 

Cocoanut Candy 300 

Cocoanut Caramels 297 

Creamed Grai>es and Oranges 306 

Cream Candy 298, 299, 301 

Fig Candy 299 

Glace Fruits 306 

How to Crystallize Fruit 305 

Kisses 297 

Lemon Drops 297 

Molasses Candy 300 

Molasses Candy of Our Grandfather's Time 301 

Nougat 301 

Nut Creams 304 

Peanut Molasses Candy 301 

Peppermint Drops 304 

Pop-Corn Balls , 300 

Raspberry Drops 299 

Sugar Candy 299 

Syrup Making 296 

To Blanch Almonds 300 

To Crystallize Any Fruit That Will Keep Its Form; also 

Nuts 305 

To Glace Fruits 304 

To Make Walnut Cream Candy, Dates and Fruit Cream. . . 302 



■WINES, CORDIALS, ETC 

A Superior Blackberry Wine 310 

A True Temperance Beverage 315 

Alsace Lorraine 317 

Bischoft (Nineteenth Century) 317 

Bischoft (Twelfth Century) 317 

Blackberry Cordial , 314, 315 

Blackberry Wine 310 

Brenton Lemonade 316 

Champagne Cup 309 



inaex. xix 

Champagne Punch 316 

Claret Cup 310 

Creme a la Jardiniere 313 

Dewberry Cordial 314 

Elderberry "Wine 312 

Ginger Beer 316 

Ginger Puff 313 

Klondike High Ball 313 

Lemonade 317 

Mixed Fruit Wine 310 

Mulled Claret 312 

Orange Sherbet 320 

Pequette, the New French Drink 312 

Peaches in Brandy 313 

Pineapple Sherbet 320 

JPoInters on Claret 309 

Haspberry Syrup 319 

Raspberry Vinegar 319 

Boyal Strawberry Acid 315 

Sir Roger De Coverley 316 

Sirop De Groseille (Currant Syrup) 316 

Strawberry Acid 315 

Strawberry, Cherry or Currant Shrub 319 

Strawberry Sherbet 320 

The MacDonald Cocktail 313 

The Service of Wines 308 

To Make Currant Wine 311 

Unfermented Grape Juice 318 

Wine Sangaree ot Port Madeira 312 



