ALBERT R. MANN 
LIBRARY 



New York State Colleges 

OF 

Agriculture and Home Economics 




AT 

Cornell University 



-;^, university Ubrarv 

"'^ '''■'''!ooK-booK,orKansascoo^^^^ 
A Kansas COOK B"_ .iiiiuiiniiMiinnii 





Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tlie Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003582230 



[COPYRIKHTBD.] 



THIS BOOK 
IS DEDICATED TO 

THE 

GIELS AVHO AEIO 

PIEST IN ^^AE, FIEST IN rj<]A('E, 

FIEST IX THE HEAETS OF THEIE ('()UXTEY:\rE]Sf, 

THE (JIELS OP SITXNY KAXSAS. 



'^All the world is on a still hunt for a 
good square meal three times a day." 




PROFESSOR MINNIE A. STONER 



PROFESSOR MINNIE A. STONER. 



The legislature of 1896-97 made the long-delayed appropria- 
tion for the girls' department of the Kansas Aelcultural College, 
and the fall of '97 saw the untiring efforts of Mrs. Kedzle re- 
warded when Domestic Science Hall — Kedzie Hall in the h(-;arts 
of the girls — was built. Thus was It possible for the work to 
grow as it never could have done under the hampered condition 
of the past. 

The political upheaval of the spring of '97 left college affairs 
in a state of contusion nowhere greater than in the household 
economics department. 

Prof. Helen Campbell, of literary fame, a woman of charming 
personality, \vas elected to tlie chair of Household Economy, 
but owing to poor health resigned before the close of the vear, 
£.nd the work fell to assistants. Naturally the chaotic ftate 
increased, and at the close of the year the Regents realized the 
necessity of great care in their selection, to secure an instructor 
who would be master of the situation. The wisdom of their 
choice of Prof. Minnie A. Stoner has been fully indicated by the 
rapid i>rogress this department has m.ade under her guidance. 

Miss Stoner, a native of Indiana, Is a typical woman of the 
West in her broad outlook of life, her energy and industry, anr: 
her zeal for her chosen profession. With these characteristics, 
she brings thorough training and wide experience:. She is a 
graduate of the South Dakota Agricultural College and of the 
Boston Normal School of Household Arts. For two years before 
com.ing to Manhattan iliss Stoner held the position of professor 
of Domestic Art and superintendent of the home department of 
the University of Tennessee. From this institution came words 
of strongest approval: "We approve and commend her work — 
fully qualified and equipped for her work— an earnest and sin- 
(?ere worker, an intelligent student, a ttrm and strong character 
and a true woman." To come in contact with a strong, tiue 
character is helpful and inspiring. Students under the instruc- 



tion of such a woman unconsciously answer to hev high ideals, 
snd are aroused to greater exertion and inspiration. To Icnow 
Iter is in Itself an education. 

Miss Stoner is known in the lecture field, having given demon- 
stration lectures in the cities of the South and at various Chau- 
tauquas. 

The first year of her worlt in the K. S. A. C. was in general 
what it had been betore; teaching cooldng as an industrial, and 
some special classes of seniors, postgraduates, and some of the 
ladies resident of Manhattan. But the increased facilities gave 
greater scope tor expansion than had been possible before, and 
Miss Stoner, ever ready to use her opportunities, had the pleas- 
v.re of seeing her work recognized as a regular collegiate course. 
Thus, from being an industrial, looked upon askance by the 
public. Domestic Science has advanced to the dignity of a four- 
years' course in college. The regular work is two years of labor- 
atory in the third and fourth years, which is preceded by a year 
of chemistry, and an elementary knowledge of physics, both of 
which are necessary to an intelligent understanding of cooking 
as a science. The training which enables a woman to go from a 
class in mathematics, history, or literature, into the kitchen 
laboratory and prepare a dainty, nutritious meal, bringing to 
bear Ihe same inteliigent attention as to her other classes, we 
believe bids lair to solve the vexed question of "the benefits of a 
college education for women." 

The Domestic Science Short Course, introduced last year, 
is I'roving to be very popular, and many girls and women to 
whom a college course is impossible are taking ad%'antagc of 
help offered them in these two terms' work. 

With the exception of the chapter on "Favorite Recipes,'' 
the recipes in this book have been corrected and approved by 
Miss Stoner, who is always ready to lend a helping hand to the 
student. M. M. 




PROFESSOR NELLIE S. KEDZIE. 



PROFESSOR NELUB S. KEDZIE. 



Could one glance Into the Book of Human Destiny, we tancy 
that opposite certain names would be seen entries similar to the 
following; 

"This man has capacity for work of great good to his fellow 
men, when developed by suffering and disappointment." 

'This woman has character and talents fitted to bless far 
greater numbers than can be reached in the path that she has 
cliosen for herself — her environment must be changed." 

The latter sentiment appropriately applies to Mrs. Nellie 
t^awyer Kedzie, who for fifteen years so successfully pyesided 
over the department of Household Economy in the Kansas Agri- 
cultural College. Possessing an intense love of home and high 
ideals of what a true home should be, she was peculiarly qual- 
ified to teach the subjects pertaining to domestic life. 

After her own home was disorganized at the ine.'corable call 
of Death, and she was tendered the chair of Household Economy, 
she lavishly devoted her strength and time and talents to the col- 
lege girls in the many ways in which young women need "moth- 
ering" when among strangers away from home. 

The boys, also, felt her kindly and helpful influence in no 
small degree. 

Maine is Mrs. Kedzie's native state, and there on a farm the 
earlier years of her childhood were passed. In 1870 her family 
moved to Ottawa, Kans. Her education was begun in the country 
schools and continued iu a private school in Ottawa. Later she 
attended the Kansas Agricultural College for two years, and was 
graduated with the class of 1876. The succeeding five years were 
spent in teaching — one in the country, and four in the city 
schools. She married Robert F. Kedzie, professor of chemistry 
in the Mississippi Agricultural College. After his death, Mrs. Ked- 
zie returned to Kansas, and at the opening of the college year in 



September, 1S82, began her professional work at Alma Mater. 
For the first two years both the sewing and the cooking were 
under her instructions, but in 1S84 the work was divided and the 
sewing was put in charge of Mrs. E. B. Winchip. In 1887 she 
was made Professor of Household Economy and Hygiene. 

The department was in its infancy and many difficulties had 
to be faced. A favorable public sentiment had to be created and 
fostered. The quarters were but poorly adapted to its needs, and 
were insufficiently lighted. The equipment did not keep pace with 
the ever enlarging number and wants. The dairy room and lab- 
oratory were on a floor below the office and class room, which 
greatly increased the exertions of the instructor. But, by the ex- 
ercise of such sterling qualities as Yankee "gumption,'' persever- 
anre, adaptability, and a sunny temperament, Mrs. Kedzie man- 
aged to keep the girls profitably employed, and to infuse cheer- 
fulness and enthusiasm into the work. 

The lectures in hygiene were given by her. The required 
course in cooking, with a small amount of dairy practice extend- 
ed through two terms of the second year. As an industrial, cook- 
ing was open to the girls of the third and fourth years, and very 
frequently elected. The post graduate girls had their regular 
course in this art. 

It may be mentioned that much of the work In those years 
was designedly performed under conditions approaching those 
of the average home, to teach the girls to obtain excellent results 
with the equipment commonly available to them. 

The general range of cooking was well covered. Attention 
was given to plain, substantial, and fancy cooking, under the 
usual groups, of Breads, Meats, Vegetables, Saiads, Cakes, Pas- 
try, and Confectionery. Adequate instruction was given in cook- 
ing for the sick, and a due proportion of time spent on canning, 
preserving and pickling. 

Demonstration lectures were given by the instructor and 
seme of the girls in advanced work. In all classes, the lectures 
and recipes were taken down, and copied for a permanent refer- 
ence book. 

The proper serving of meals was taught by actual practice 
in the faculty dinner each week (at which one or the girls pre- 
sided and carved), student lunches and receptions, and the ban- 



quet prepared each terra for the regents, members of the faculty 
and their wives. 

Many, when they became acquainted with the work, won- 
dered that so much was accomplished in so short a time. 

The display at the World's Fair, Chicago, of edibles prepared 
under her instruction elicited praise and favorable comment from 
competent judges. 

Mrs. Kedzie spent many of her vacations visiting other in- 
stitutions with similar departments and was ever on the alert 
for new suggestions for her work.' Some time was spent one 
summer at the Kensington cooking-school in England. 

During Mrs. Kedzie's incumbency the history of the depart- 
ment is one of continuous growth in numbers, influence and efB- 
ciency, and the number of successful teachers of Domestic Bcon- 
only who have gone out from her classes attests the value of 
their training. 

After the radical changes in the faculty In the spring of 
1S97, Mrs. Kedzie resigned her position and accepted a similar 
one in Bradley Institute, Peoria, 111. In addition to her regular 
work in this institution, she now gives weekly lectures in Pur- 
due University, Indiana, and is frequently called to lecture at 
Farmers' Institutes. Her sphere of influence has continually 
• broadened, and honors have come to her in every field of en- , 
deavor. 

The esteem of a host of friends, and the love and respect 
of the great company of young women for whom she has labored 
so zealously, is richly merited. 

LYDIA G. WllLAED. 



It shall be woman's office to move in the midst of practical affairs 
and to gild them all, even tJie homeliest,— be it the scouring of pots or 
of kettles, — with an atmosphere of love and joy. — Hawthorne. 



Tlie true- lady should be a princess, a washerwoman, — yes, a 
washerwoman ! to see that all is fair and clean, to wash with water, to 
cleanse and purify wherever she goes, to set disordered things in orderly 
array. — this ivas woman^s misssmi. — Ruskin. 

What does good cooking meanf It means the knowledge of Media, 
and of Circe, and of Calypso, and Helen, and the Queen of Sheba. 
It means the kuowledge of all fruits, and herbi, and balms, and spices, 
and of all that is healing and sweet in fields and groves, and savory in 
meat. It means carefulness, and inventiveness, and watchfulness, and ■ 
willingness, and readiness of appliances. It means the economy of 
your great grandmother, and the hnmcledge of modern chemists. It 
means much touting and no wasting. It means English thoroughness, 
■and French art, and Arabian hospitality, and it means, in fine, that 
you are to be perfectly and always ladies, — loaf-givers, — and that you 
•are to see that everybody has something nice to eat. — M^tskin. 



CEREALS. 



''Take the good the gods provide.'''' 

Cereals are the cultivated grasses yielding grains or seeds 
that may be used as food. They contain much starch, some pro- 
tein matter and a very small per cent of fat. Thus the principle 
of cookery involved is the principle of the cookery of starch, 
which must be cooked at a temperature of 212° F., which is the 
temperature of boiling water. The cereals are used for breakfast 
foods, and the grains are either crushed, coarselj' ground or fine- 
ly ground. 

To prepare cereals for cooking look over carefully, lemove 
any foreign matei'ial, and wash If necessary. 

Recipe; — 1 c. cereal, 

2% or 3 c. water. 
1 tsp. salt. 

The best method is to use the double-boiler for grains. 
Place the water and salt in the upper part of the double-boiler. 
Add the cereal and cook with the cover on and without stirring 
until ready to serve. The length of time for cooking depends 
upon the cereal used. 

Finely ground grains 1 hour. 

Crushed grains V£ to 2 hours. 

Cracked grains ?• to 5 hours. 

Whole grains 8 hours. 

If the cereal is cooked directly over the fire it may cook 
more quickly, but reauires constant stirring to prevent scorching. 

CEREAL WITH PRESERVES. 

Drain the syrup from one ciip of preserves. Place a layer 
of hot, freshly cooked cereal in the bottom of a serving dish. 
Cover with a layer of preserves. Fill the dish with the remain- 
der of the cereal and. decorate the top with preserves. Serve 
hot or cold, as preferred, with the syrup from the fruit as a 
sauce. If served hot the syrup may be heated also. 

This makes a pleasant variation from plain breakfast food 
with cream and sugar. 

CEREAL WITH DRY PEACHES. 

Wash and soak one-half dozen large dried peaches. Stew 
until tender in 1% c. water and >/,, c. sugar. When done place 



2G A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 

eacli one of the peaches in the bottom of a cup which has been 
previously rinsed iu cold water and ^ot dried. Pill the cup 
about % full with Vreshly cooked cereal, and chill. When cold 
turn out on the individual oat-meal dishes and serve >vith the 
syrup from the stewed fruit. Dried prunes, apricots or pears 
may be used instead of peaches. If prunes are used they should 
be seeded. 

CEREAL WITH DATES. 

Fill a serving dish with alternate layers of cereal and 
chopped dates. Have a layer of dates on top. Serve either hot 
or cold with cream and sugar. Figs may be used for this also. 

CEREAL WITH BANANAS. 

Fill a serving dish with alternate layers of cereal and thinly 
sliced bananas. Sprinkle each layer with powdered sugar. 
Serve at once, with cream or milk. Fresh or canned peaches, 
fresh strawberries, raspberries or blackberries may be used in 
place of bananas. Stewed blackberries may be used also. If an 
aoid fruit is used do not serve with cream. 

SAUTE OF CEREAL. 

Steam left-over of cereal until soft, and turn into a dish 
to mold. The left-overs may be all of one kind or of several 
kinds. Whcu cold turn out and cut in slices Vo inch thick. Roll 
in sifted bread or cracker crumbs and brown in a little hot fat 
in a griddle or skillet. Serve hot with fruit syrup or brown 
sugar syrup. 

Note.— Either the oat-meals or wheat foods may be used for 
the above recipes. Maey Bly Pritker. 



FOR KANSAS KOOKS 21 



VEGETABLES. 



"See dying vegetables life sustain, 
See life dissolving vegetate again ; 
All forms that perish other forms supply ; 
( By turns we eatch the vital breath and die.)" 

GENERAL RULES. 

First, thoroughly wash the vegetables in cold water, either 
with your hand, a cloth, or with a vegetable brush. Then peel 
or scrape, keeping them in cold water but a short time, until 
ready to be cooked. This keeps them fresh and crisp and also 
keeps them from discoloring. If the vegetable discolors easily, 
L tbsp. Vinegar put into 1 c. of water in which they are rinsed 
will prevent it. 

Vegetables are usually cooked in boiling salted water, using 
1 tsp. salt to 1 qt. water, and it should be boiling throughout the 
process. The objective point in the cookery of vegetables is not 
to overcook, and not to undercook. To overcook vegetables gives 
them a dark color, and also makes them indigestible. Prom 20 
to 30 minutes is the usual time rectuired for their cookery. Fresh 
vegetables, young vegetables, and those that have grown quickly 
will cook better and in ft, shorter time than those grown in a dry 
season. 

If vegetables are cooked, with the cover partially off, they 
keep their color better and have a more delicate flavor. Blanch- 
ing vegetables gives them a more delicate color and flavor. This 
is done by parboiling tliem for 5 or 10 minutes, then drain off the 
water and pour over them fresh boiling water, and continue their 
cooking with the seasoning until tender. 

Vegetables should be served hot unless they have been pre- 
pared for a salad. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

To 1 pt. hot boiled potatoes, cooked according to the general 
rules, use % tsp. salt, spk. white pepper, 1 tbsp. butter, and 
moisten with hot milk or cream. 

■When the potatoes are tender, drain oft the water, remove 
the cover, and let the steam escape. Then mash and beat well. 
Add the seasoning and enough hot milk or cream to make them 
light and creamy. Add the butter, and beat them again. Turn 
into a hot vegetable dish. Do not smooth them down, as it 
rjakes them hard and soggy. 



22 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

Cut. 1 pt. cold boiled potatoes iuto dice, add % tsp. salt and 
1 spk: white pepper. Brown 1 tbsp. minced onion in 1 tbsp. but- 
ter; then add the potatoes, and lift gently with 2 forks until they 
have absorbed all the butter. When taken from the stove, add 1 
tbsp. chopped parsley. Serve hot. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

1 qt. sliced potatoes, % c. bread crumbs, 1 tbsp. batter, 1 
tsp. salt, % tsp. white pepper, 3 c. milk.' 

Prepare the potatoes according to the general rules; then 
slice very thin and put them in boiling water 5 minutes. Butter 
a baking dish and place in the bottom a layer of sliced potatoes. 
Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and cracker crumbs, and dot with 
bits of butter. Then arrange another layer of potatoes, and 
sprinkle with seasoning and crumbs, and dot with bits of but- 
ter. Continue this, until all the materials are used, reserving a 
generous layer of crumbs for the top. Pour the milk over this, 
and bake in a hot oven about % hour. 

BAKED POTATOES AND CHEESE. 

Scrub the vegetables thoroughly with a vegetable brush. 
Cut oft one end, oil the skin slightly, and put in the oven to bake. 
When tender, take them from the oven and remove the pulp care- 
fully, without breaking the skin. To 1 cup potato pulp, use 1 
rounding tbsp. cheese, 1 level tbsp. butter, 1 tsp. salt, 14 tsp. 
white pepper, and 2 tbsp. hot milk. Cream all thoroughly, and 
fill the cases. Then put them in the oven to slightly brown the 
tops and heat the potatoes through. 

SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Prepare the potatoes according to the general rules. Cut 
into very thin slices, with a salad cutter. Dry between cloths. 
Fry in a bath of sn'.oking hot fat. Then sprinkle slightly with 
salt. They may be served either hot or cold. 

FRENCH FRIED SWEET POTATOES. 

Prepare the potatoes according to the general rules. Then 
slice very line, or cut in cubes or prisms. Dry between cloths. 
Then fry in a bath of smoking hot fat. Sprinkle with powdered 
sugar. 

SCALLOPED SWEET POTATOES. 

2 c. sliced sweet potatoes, 2 tsp. butter, 1 tsp. sugar, '>/■! c- 
milk. 

Prepare the potatoes according to the general rules. Then 



FOR KANSAS KOOKS 23 

put in boiling water 5 minutes. Arrange in layers in a br.ttered 
baking dish. Sprinkle each layer with sugar, and dot with bit? 
or butter. Then add just milk enough so they will not, float. 
Bake in a hot oven about % hour. 

CREAM OF CAULIFLOWER. 

Separate the cauliflower into small bunches, removing the 
gieen leaves and woody stems. Then soak in salt water % hour. 
Cook according to the general rules for vegetables. Drain and 
serve with a white sauce. Pour the white sauce over the cauli- 
flower, and marinate, using 2 forks. 

White Sauce. — 1 tbsp. flour, 1 tbsp. butter, i/j tsp. salt, % 
tsii. white pepper, 1 o. hot milk. 

Melt the butter until it foams, blend in the flour and season- 
ings, add the hot milk a little at a time until all is added, boil 10 
m. stirring constantly. If it is lumpy it should be strained. 

TURNIPS A LA CREME. 

Prepare the turnips according to the general rules for vege- 
tables. Cut into % inch cubes and cook until tender . Drain, and 
place them in a vegetable dish and marinate with cream sauce. 

3 level tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. flour, % tsp. salt, 1 c. milk, spk. 
cayenne. 

Make like white sauce. This i's enough for 2 c. turnips. 

CREAM OF CELERY. 

Same as cream of cauliflower. 

CREAMED CABBAGE. 

Same as cream of celery. 

CREAMED PEAS. 

Same as cream of celery. 

CREAMED BEANS. 

Same as cream of celery, but use the vegetable stock, instead 
of milk for the sauce. 

CORN CHOWDER. 

1 can corn, 1 pt. diced potatoes, 1 tsp. salt, ix, tsp. white pep- 
per, 3 level tbsp. butter, 2 tbsp. flour, 1 pt. milk, ] pt. croutons, 
2 hard cooked eggs. 

Prepare the potatoes according to general rules and blanch 
for 15 minutes. Klush the corn with 1 cup cold water. Then add 



24 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 

the corn to the potatoes and cook 5 minutes longer. Add season- 
ing. Malie a white sauce of tlie butter, flour and milk, and add it 
to the corn and potatoes. Cook 5 minutes longer. Just before 
serving, add the hard cooked eggs. Cut the whites in fine dice 
and rub the yolks through a sieve. Serve with croutons. 

PEA PU.REE. 

1/2 can peas, % c. water, 1 tsp. butter, 1 tsp. flour, 3% c. 
milk. 

Cook the peas in the water until tender. Then rub them 
through a sieve. Make a white sauce of the remaining ingredi- 
ents. Add the peas to the white sauce. Serve with crisp 
crackers. 

TOMATO SCALLOP. 

10 large tomatoes, 1 c. bread or cracker crumbs, 1 tsp. salt, 
% tsp. pepper, 1 tbsp. batter, 2 tbsp. sugar. 

Butter a baking dish and place in the bottom a layer of 
crumbs. Then arrange a layer of sliced tomatoes, and sprinkle 
with salt, pepper, sugar and crumbs. Dot with bits of batter. 
Then put in another layer of tomatoes and add the seasoning 
and crumbs. Continue until the materials are used. Reserve a 
generous layer of crumbs for the top. Bake covered imtilit 
bubbles. Then remove the cover and allow the top to brown. 

STEWED TOMAT.OES. 

To 1 qt. tomatoes use 1 tsp. salt, Vt tsp. pepper, 1 tbsp. but- 
ter, 2 tbsp. sugar, and 1 c. sifted cracker crumbs. Put on the 
sto\ e and cook for about % hour. Serve hot. 

ASPARAGUS, FRENCH STYLE. 

Remove the woody ends of the asparagus, and prepare and 
cook according to the general rules for vegetables. Cook in tyo 
waters, adding 1 tbsp. vinegar to 1- at. water (in last, cooking). 
When tender, drain oft the water, and arrange In a vegetable 
dish. Pour over it the following sauce: 

2 tbsp. butter, 2 c. cream, 14 tsp. salt, % tsp. white pepper. 

Make as you would white sauce. This is sufficient for about 
3 bunches asparagus. 

ASPARAGUS ON TOAST. 

Prepare the toast by first drying it in the oven, and then 
browning it. Dip it quickly into % c. hot water, to which 14 tsp. 
salt has been added. Prepare and cook the asparagus according 
to general riiles. Cut off the heads, and lay them on the toast. 
Then pour over it a white sauce made with asparagus stock in- 
stead of milk. 



EOR KANSAS KOOKS 25 

POTATO PUFF. 

Make 1 pt. of cold mashed potatoes Quite moist with jnilk. 
Beat tiie yolks and whites of 2 eggs separately. jrStir the yolks 
and % tsp. salt into the potato and fold in the whites last. Turn 
into a shallow baking dish that has been oiled, and bake 5 or 10 
minutes. % e. finely chopped cooked meat of any kind may be 
added before the whites of eggs. This makes a rich puff. 

STUFFED POTATOES. 

1 pt baked potato pulp from freshly baked potatoes, 1 tbsp. 
butter, 1,4 tsp. salt. Vis c. hot milk. Mash the pulp fine (after 
carefully removing it from the potato skins) and add the milk 
and seasonings. Pill the cases with the mixture and return to 
the oven for 5 minutes. The end of the potato should be cut 
off before baking so that it will stand up well. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

I c. corn chopped fine, 2 eggs, i^ tsp. salt, % tsp. white pep- 
per, 4 tbsp. flour, 1 tsp. baking powder, milk to make a stiff bat- 
ter. 

Beat the yolks to a cream, add the corn and blend in the dry 
ingredients. Fold in the whites of eggs last. Drop bits of the; 
dough into smoking hot fat and fry as you would doughnuts, or 
brown in a skillet which has been oiled with a teaspoon of butter 
or lard. 

SALSIFY FRITTERS. 

Scrape the salsify roots and split lengthwise, cook in boiling 
salted water until tender or for about 1% hours. Drain and roll 
in fritter batter (see Baking Powder Mi,\tures) and fry in hot 
fat. 

Anna C. Pfurtze. 



26 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 



EGGS. 



"IViere is a right way to do crerything — even to boil an tgg.'' 

The egg is an albuminous food, and sliould be cooked at a 
temperature of from 160' to ISO" P. Eggs should never be boiled. 

EGG6 COOKED IN WATER. 

Pour boiling water into a cold sauce pan. Place tbe eggs in 
this and move to the back of the stove or place in a warming 
oven to cook and keep tightly covered. For soft eggs cook 3 to 5 
or 8 minutes. For medium 10 to 12 or 15 minutes. For hard 
eggs cook 30 minutes. 

Eggs cooked in this way are far more digestible than when 
boiled. By pouring the boiling water into the cold sauce pan it 
is cooled to about the right temperature. Be sure that the water 
remains below the boiling point after placing the eggs to cook. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Pour boiling water into a cold sauce pan. For a quart of 
water add 1 tsp. salt. Place on the back of the stove where it is 
just below the boiling' point. Break the eggs carefully into a 
saucer and place in the hot water one at a time. Cover the 
sauce pan and cook 2 minutes. Remove the eggs onto a hot plat- 
ter. For six eggs melt 1 tbsp. butter in an omelet pan and when 
the butter is foamy add 2 tbsp. ilne cracker crumbs and blend 
thoroughly. Place some of the buttered crumbs on the top of 
each egg. Dust the eggs very lightly with white pepper. Gar- 
nish with parsley and serve hot. 

EGGS ON TOAST. 

C eggs, 1 qt. milk, 1 tsp. salt. 

Heat the milk to which the salt has been added until a thin 
scum is formed on top. Cook the eggs in this as for poached 
eggs. Have fi slices of bread y^ inch thick cut in rounds with a 
biscuit or cooky-cutter. Dry in the oven, and toast until light 
brown. Dip the toast in the hot milk in which the eggs are 
cooked. Arrange the toast on a hot platter and place the eggs on 
the toast. ' Serve hot. 



FOR KANSAS KOOKf. 27 

CODDLED EGGS. 

Ml c hot milk, 2 eggs, 1 tsp. butter, 1/2 tsp. salt, spk. white 
pepper. 

Beat the eggs to a cream, add the salt and pepper. Blend 
into the hot milk. Add the butter. Stir in a basin over hot 
water or in a double-boiler until quite thick. Serve hot on toast, 
crisped crackers or steamed rice. 

EGG VERMICELLI. 

3 hard cooked eggs, % tsp. salt, Vs tsp. pepper, 1 e. hot milk, 
1 tsp. butter, 1 tsp. flour, 3 pieces toasted bread cut in rounds or 
triangles. 

Soak the bread in 1 cup hot water to which 14 tsp. salt has 
been added. 

After removing the shell from the eggs separate the whites 
from the yolks, and chop the whites fine. Melt the butter until it 
is foamy. Add the flour and blend in the hot milk a little at a 
time. Add the seasonings and boil this sauce for 5 m- Add the 
diced whites and pour over the toasted bre^d on a hot pLitter. 
Press the yolks through a small sieve and sprinkle over the top 
of the dish for garnish. 

OMELET. 

2 eggs, 1 scant tbsp. milk, % tbsp. salt, spk. white pepper, 1 
tsp. butter. 

Beat the whites and the yolks of the eggs separately. Add 
the milk and seasoning to the yolks, and beat until thick and 
creamy. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites. Oil the hot omelet 
pan with butter. 

Turn the egg nii^iture into the pan and smooth the top with 
a knife or spoon. Let it cook slowly until it is firm. Hace in the 
oven to dry on top, and serve at once on a hot dish. Finely 
chopped ham may be spread on the top of the omelet, or it may 
be folded. 

BAKED EGGS. 

I 

Drop % tbsp. butter in a baking dish and set on the back 
of the stove until it is melted. Sprinkle over this 1 tbsp. fine 
bread crumbs, 1 tbsp. minced parsley and 10 drops of onion juice. 
Season with Vs tsp. salt and a spk. of pepper and let it heat for 
5 minutes longer. Break in carefully six eggs and place in a 
moderately hot oven until the whites are set. Then sprinkle 
evenly over the top 3 tbsp. grated cheese, and % tbsp. butter. 
Sprinkle again with V2 tsp. salt and a spk. white peppei-. Place 
in the oven until the cheese is melted. Remove from the oven 
and serve immediately. 



28 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 



CHINESE EGGS. 



4 hard cooked eggs, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. flour, 1 c. hot 
milk, % tsp. salt, dash Cayenne pepper, 1 tbsp. Worcestershire 
or Shirley sauce, % tsp. celery salt. 

Remove the shells from the eggs and divide them length- 
wise in quarters. Place in rows in a serving dish. Melt the 
butter, add the flour, salt and pepper. Blend in the milk and boil 
for from 5 to 10 3Tiimites. Add the Worcestershire sauce just be- 
fore removing from the stove. Pour the sauce over the eggs 
and serve either hot or cold. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

'i c. milk, % tsp. s.alt, % tsp. white pepper, 2 tbsp. cracker 
crumbs, 4 eggs. 

Beat the eggs until thoj- arp rre^ny. A'''l the salt and pep- 
per. Heat the milk in an omelet pan, add the cracker crumbs 
and cook until they nearly absorb the milk. Pour in the eggs' 
and stir until all are cooked. Do not let them get too dry. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH CHEESE. 

Beat four eggs until they are creamy. Season with V'; tsp. 
salt and dash ot cayenne pepper. Turn into a buttered omelet 
pan and cook on the back of the stove 2 m., stirring constantly. 
Blend in 1 tbsp. grated cheese. Turn into a hot dish and serve 
immediately. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

Remove the shell from hard cooked eggs, and cut them in 
two crosswise. Remove the yolks and mash through a strainer. 
For the yolks of 6 eggs add 2 tbsp. finely ground ham or tongue, 
1 tbsp. butter, ',{> tsp. salt, spk. white pepper. Mix to a smooth 
paste, and fill the whites. Serve cold. 

DEVILED EGGS. 

Prepare as for stuffed eggs. To the yolks of 6 eggs add 1 
tbsp. butter, 1 tsp. mustard, 2 tbsp. lemon .niice or vinegar. 1 tsp. 
sugar, '!• tsp. salt, dash of cayenne pepper. Mix to a smooth 
paste and lill the whites with the mixture. Chill and serve on 
lettuce leaves or with garnish of parsley. 

Mary Blv Pretser. 



FOR KANSAS KOOKd 29 



MEATS. 



"Thou sayest his meat was sauced with thy uphraidings ; 
Unquiet meals make ill digestion." 

GENERAL RULES. 

All meats should be wiped with a damp cloth before they 
are cooked. 

The most important points to be observed in meat cookery 
are that hot water or dry heat will harden the outside tissues 
and retain the juices, while cold water softens the tissues and 
extracts the juices. 

Meats may be stewed, baked, broiled, roasted, or cooked in 
water. 

Never use tough meat where only tender pieces will give 
the desired results. 

Cooking in water and stewing are the most economical 
methods of cooking tough meats. 

Meats are classed with albuminous foods and should be 
cooked at a temperature of from 160° to 180° F. 

POT ROAST OF BEEF. 

One of the best pieces for a pot roast is the rump. Wipe 
the meat clean and skewer or tie it into shape. Dredge with 
flour, salt and pepper. Place in the meat kettle. Pour boiling 
water over it and let it cook 5 or 10 m. at that temperature. 
Remove to the back part of the stove and cook below the 
boiling point, allowing 15 or 20 m. to the pound. During the 
last half hour let the juices cook down to be used as gravy. 

PAN-BROILED STEAK. 

The best steaks are the tenderloin, porterhouse and sirloin. 
Heat the broiling pan until it smokes and oil it slightly with 
some of the fat from the steak. Wipe the meat with a damp 
cloth and trim off any fat or skin-like parts. Place it in the 
broiling pan and turn it every 10 or 15 counts until it Is cooked 
as desired — either rare or well done. Put it on a hot platter, 
season with salt and pepper, and place a small lump of butter 
on each piece 



30 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 

FRIED LIVER. 

Parboil the liver in salted water until tender, and then dust 
thoroughly with flour and season with pepper and salt. Broil 
pieces of bacon in the broiling pan or skillet and saute the liver 
in this until it is nicely browned. 

ROAST BEEF. 

Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, trim the edges, skewer 
into shape and weigh. For a 5 lb. roast place 2 tbsp. beef fat 
and 1 c. hot water in the roasting pari. Have a hot skillet, place 
the meat in this and turn until it is seared on all sides, then 
dredge with 1 tbsp. flour, 1 tsp. salt, % tsp. pepper, blended. 
Place on a rack in a roasting pan and bake 20 m. to the pound 
in a moderately hot oven. If the roaster has no cover, baste the 
meat frequently. 

HAMBURG STEAK. 

2 c. uncooked meat ground and packed — a tou?h cut may 
be used, 2 tbsp. onion, 2 tsp. salt, Vi tsp. white pepper. Mix 
thoroly and shape into a square 1 in. thick. Dredge lightly with 
flour and cook in the broiling irons over a bed of hot coals, turn- 
ing every 10 counts. This may be pan-broiled on an oiled grid- 
dle. 

BEEF COQUETTES. 

Grind cold cooked meat fine, season — using y^^ tsp. salt and y^ 
tsp. pepper to each c. of meat. A level tsp. dried parsley or 1 
tbsp. Worcestershire sauce may be .added if desired. Moisten 
with cold gravy or with a white sauce made from % tbsp. flour, 
J/j tbsp. butter, % tsp. salt, spk. white pepper, % c. hot milk. 
Melt the butter till it froths, blend in the flour and seasonings, 
add the hot milk and boil 10 min. Allow the white sauce to 
cool before blending with the meat. Do not get the mixture too 
soft to shape into balls. Roll into balls with the hands, then 
shape into cylinders. Roll in sifted crumbs, then in egg mixture, 
then in crumbs again and fry. 

The Egg Mixture — Is prepared by beating together 1 egg and 
1 tbsp. of milk. Add a spk. of salt. 

BtEF LOAF. 

Prepare the meat according to general rules and run thru 
a meat grinder. To each c. of the uncooked meat add 1 egg, 1 
tsp. salt, 1 tbsp. cracker crumbs, 1 tbsp. butter. Rub the baking 
dish with a slice of onion, then heat the dish and oil it. Shape 
the beef mixture into a loaf, roll In beaten egg, then in crumbs. 
Place in the hot pan and bake 15 or 20 m. for each lb. If the 



FOR KANSAS KOOKsj 31 

bee! mixture seems too dry it may be moistened witli a little 
millv before shaping into tlie loaf. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Trim from the slices of veal all fat, bone and connective tis- 
sue. Cut into strips. Roll and skewer in rounds. Dust with % 
tsp. pepper and 1 tsp. salt to each lb. of veal. Roll in bread 
crumbs and egg mixture and brown in a skillet. Then stew 43 
m. in a tomato sauce made as follows: 

Tomato Sauce: — 1 tbsp. butter, 1% c. tomato stdck, % tsp. 
salt, 1% tbsp. flour, dash of cayenne pepper, Vi tsp. celery salt. A 
tbsp. Worcestershire sauce may be added. Prepare us white 
sauce. This is excellent to serve with beef loaf. 

VEAL CUTLETS— II. 

Prepare the veal according to general rules, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, using 1 tsp. salt and % tsp. pepper for each 
lb. of meat. Roll in crumbs and egg mixture and fry in a bath 
of smoking hot fat. 

MINCED BEEF IN GRAVY ON TOAST. 

Take left over bits of meat from a roast and mince them 
fine. Make a white sauce, using 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. flour, 1 c. 
hot milk, Vn tsp. salt, % tsp. pepper. Heat the butter in a small 
sauce pan until it foams, add the flour, salt and pepper. Blond in 
the milk a little at a time and boil 10 m., then blend the meat 
into this. Put hot toast on a hot platter and pour the .-neat 
and sauce mixture over it and serve at once. 

ROAST CHICKEN. 

After removing the feathers, singe and draN\ the chicken 
and wash Inside and out with borax water, using 1 level ibsp. 
borax to 1 cit. cold water. Truss the fowl and fill with dressing 
and roast until tender. Baste frequently. 

Dressing. — % lb. bread crumbs free from crust, 3 tbsp. butter, 
V/. tsp. salt, Vi tsp. white pepper, 3 tbsp. minced parsley, % tsp. 
powdered thyme, % tsp. sage, dash of nutmeg, % c. hot water in 
which a slice of onion has been allowed to cook for 1 m. Mix the 
crumbs and seasonings, moisten with the hot water and fill the 
chicken. 
CHICKEN WITH DUMPLINGS— FRENCH STYLE. 

prepare the chicken and cut it up as for frying. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, using 1 tsp. salt and i/4 tsp. pepper to 1 lb. 
chicken. Dredge with flour. Place on the bottom of a pan in 
a single layer. Add enough hot water to come half way up on 



32 • A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 

the chicken. Tiiin and baste frequently. When the chicken is 
tender place the dumplings on top and return to the oven until 
they are baked. 

Dumplings.— 2 c. flour, Itbsp butter, % tsp. salt, 1 tsp. bdldng 
powder, 2 small or 1 large egg, i/i c. milk. Beat the eggs together 
until light and creamy, mix the dry ingredients and moisten with 
the milk. Add the eggs and turn out onto a lloured board. Roll Vi 
in. thick and cut into squares, slash and lay over tho top of the 
chicken. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

2 c. finely ground chicken which has been previously 
cooked. Jlix with a sauce made from 1 tbsp. butter, 2 tbsp. flour. 
1 c. hot milk or cream, 1 egg, 1 tsp. salt, 14 tsp. white pepper, 1 
tsp. onion juice, spk. nutmeg. Melt the butter until it foams, 
add the flour and seasonings, and blend in the milk a little at a 
time. Cook 10 m. Remove from the stove and add the beaten 
egg. When it is cold mix with the chicken. Roll into cylindri- 
cal shapes, using 1 tbsp. of the mixture for each one. Roll in 
crumbs, then in egg mixture, then in crumbs again and fry in a 
bath of hot fat. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Stew the chicken until tender, allowing the stock to cook 
down. Pick the meat from the bones and chop it fine, sepai-ating 
tho light from the dark meat. Add % tsp. salt, Vs tsp. white pep- 
per, and % tsp. celery salt to each kind of meat. Place in a 
mold in layers. Pour the stock over this and let it stand in a 
cool place until it is Arm. Turn out of the mold, slice, place on a 
platter and garnish with parsley or lettuce leaves. 

Stella Strwah'I'. '00. 



FOR KANSAS KOOKS 33 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 



"Master, marvel how thefislies live in the sea ! "' 

"Why, as men do a land ; the great ones eat up tlie Utile ones.'" 

FISH. 

Tests for a Good Fish. — The eyes should be full and should 
have a bright color. The flesh should be firm to the touch and 
should not have a stale odor. The gills should be a bright red. 

To Remove the Scales. — Put the flsh in cold water, and 
scrape off the scales with a knife, beginning at the tail, and 
going toward the head. Keep the fish under water during the 
process, if possible. 

To Remove the Eyes. — Slip the knife around and under the 
eyes, carefully, to cut the muscles, and then remove them. 

To Draw a Fish. — Cut from the neck to the anal opening 
and remove the internal organs. Then flush ^^ell with salt 
water. 

To Skin a Fish. — Cut down the centi-e of the back and re- 
move the dorsal fin. Then cut around mouth for about l-i inch. 
Carefully take up the skin, and pull it off, beginning at the head, 
and going toward the tail. Hold down the muscle part with your 
hand so as not to tear it. 

To Bone a Fish. — After the fish is skinned, the next thing to 
be done is to bone it, if a fillet of fish is desired. Lay the fish 
flat on a meat board, and slip a sharp knife under the flesh part, 
close to the back bone. Then slip the knife under and ca're- 
tally remove the flesh from the back and side bones. 

Cookery of Fish. — Owing to the albumenoids a fish contains, 
it should not be cooked at a high temperature. Hish heat tough- 
ens such a compound and makes it indigestible. When fish is 
cooked in water, put it in boiling water. This coagulates the 
albumen on the surface, thereby keeping in all of the juices. 
Then immediately put the kettle where the water will :iot boil, 
and cook until the flesh flakes. It is better to put the fish in 
water at about 200° F., then lower temperature to 160° or 180° 
P., and cook until flesh flakes. 

FISH A LA POULETTE.— (3 lb. Fish.) 

Skin and bone the fish according to'the general rules. Then 
lay over it slices of onion, and pour over this the juice of % 



34 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 

lemon. Season with H tsp. salt and % tsp. white pepper. In Va 
hour take the onion off and cut the fish in uniform slices. Then 
dip each slice into melted butter and roll, fastening it with a 
skewer. Dredge with flour, and put in a moderate oven to bake 
for about 20 m. Bake on a rack. Subject it to high heat for 
about 5 m., then finish baking on the lower grate. Serve- with a 
white sauce, and decorate each fillet with hard-cooked eggs. Cut 
the whites into rings, and rub the yolks through a sieve, filling 
the rings or covering the top evenly. 

BAKED FISH. 

Prepare the fish according to general rules. For a 3 lb. fish 
use % tsp. salt, % tsp. white pepper, and dredge. Then put it on 
a rack in a roaster and bake. Put it on the top grate for 5 m., 
and then remove to the lower part of the oven, where the tem- 
perature is lower. Baste frequently with equal pai-ts of lemon 
juice and olive oil. Serve with egg white sauce. 

FRIED FISH. 

Prepare the fish according to the general rules, and cut into 
pieces of uniform size. Prepare an egg mixture, using 1 tbsp. 
milk to the yolk of 1 egg. Beat slightly. Roll the pieces of fish 
in bread or cracker crumbs, then dip into the egg mixture and 
roll again in crumbs. Fry in a bath of smoking hot fat. It 
should be still and smoke from the center. A good test for the 
fat is to take a small cube of stale bread and drop it into the 
fat; if it browns in 60 counts, it is ready for frying. Serve with 
the following sauce: 

Allemonde Sauce. — Cook the bone of a fish in water enough 
to cover. To 1 c. bone, chopped fine, use 3 cloves, 1 bay leaf, 1 
slice of onion, 2 peppercorns. Let this soak about 20 m., and then 
pul, it on the stove and let it come to a boil. Add % tsp. salt. 
Strain, and add enough water to make 1 c. Then make a white 
sauce, using the fish stock instead of milk. Add % c- cream. 
Boil about 10 m. Then put it on the back part of the stove, and 
add the yolk of :L egg, beaten to a cream. Strain, and add 1 tsp. 
minced parsley. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

1 lb. fish (bones, head and trimmings of the muscle part), 
4 medium sized potatoes, 4 crackers, 2 tbsp. butter, 2 tbsp. diced 
onion, 1 tbsp. flour. 3 c. milk, i/i tsp. salt, Vi tsp. white pepper, 2 
tbsp. flaked fish. 

Cover the bones with cold water and let soak about 20 m., 
then gradually heat it, and cook until the muscle part Is tender. 
Drain off the liquor. Cut the potatoes into dice and cook in 
boiling water 5 m. Then drain off the water and cook the 



FOR KANSAS KOOKf. 35 

potatpes, until tender, in the Hsh stock. Brown the onion slight- 
ly i*. 1 tbsp. butter, and make a white sauce of the remain- 
ing ingredients, excepting the' crackers. Then add the browned 
onion to the white sauce. Strain, and add to it the potatoes and 
fish stock. Add 2 tbsp. flaked flsh. Pour over ciisp crackers in 
a hot vegetable dish, and serve hot. 

HALIBUT COOKED IN WATER. 

liEy steaks in a sauce pan large enough to allow them to 
be flat on the bottom. Cover with hot water and cook with a 
slice of carrot, slice of onion, 1 bay leaf, sprig of parsley, 6 pep- 
percorns, juice of 1/2 lemon, and 1 stalk of celery. Remove to 
the back part of the stove where it will cook below the boiling 
point. When the fish flakes, drain and remove the vegetables. 
Arrange the fish on a hot platter and serve with — 

Hollandalse Sauce. — % c. butter creamed, well beaten yolks 
of 4 eggs. Blend these together and add the juice of % lemon, % 
tsp. salt, spk. of cayenne pepper. Add slowly 1 c. hot water. 
Cook all in double boiler until creamy. Do not boil. Beat vig- 
orously. 

HALIBUT— TURKISrt STYLE. 

Place 2 or 3 slices of onion on the rack of a baking pan. 
Over this arrange slices of halibut steak. Dot with butter. Cover 
the top of the fish with % c. tomato pulp. Sprinkle over with 
\'2 tsp. salt, and % tsp. cayenne pepper. Baste carefully with hot 
water while cooking. Cook until the fish flakes. 

FISH BALLS. 

2 c. cold, cooked fish, minced fine Mix with a white 
sauce made from % tbsp. flour, % tbsp. butter, % tsp. salt, spk. 
white pepper, y^ c. hot milk. Do not blend with the fish until 
the white sauce is cold. Shape into balls, roll in sifted crumbs, 
then in white of egg and in crumbs again, and fry in a bath of 
hot fat. 



OYSTERS. 

General Rules.^Drain the oysters by putting them in a sieve, 
flush them with clear cold water, or with salt water, using about 
1 c. water and 1 tsp. salt to 1 qt. oysters. Then take each 
oyster and carefully pass it between your fingers to remove any 
bits of shell or other foreign matter, that may have adhered to it. 

Clarify the liquor from oysters by heating until it is milky. 
Remove from the stove and strain. 



36 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 

FRIED OYSTERS. ^ 

1 pt. large oysters, 1/2 tsp. salt, % tsp. white pepper, 2 eggs 
beaten with 2 tbsp. milk, cracker crumbs. 

Prepare the oysters according to the general rules. Roll 
them in cracker crumbs, dip in the egg mixture, and then roll in 
crumbs again. Fry in a bath of smoking hot tat, using the same 
test as you do for fried fish. 

CREAM OF OYSTER SOUP. 

1 qt. oysters, 1 pt. milk, 3 level tbsp. butter, I tbsp. flour, 
2 tsp. salt, % tsp. white pepper, Ij. c. oyster liquor. 

Pi-epare the oysters according to the general rules, and heat 
them in a sauce pan until the edges curl. Heat the oyster liquor 
until milky, then remove the scum. Afake a white sauce of the 
remaining ingredients. Strain, and add it to the heated liquor. 
Add the oysters. Serve with crisp crackers. 

OYSTER SOUP WITHOUT OYSTERS. 

1 pt. milk, 1 pt. oyster liquor, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. flour, 
1 tsp. salt, Vs tsp. white pepper. 

Make as you would cream of oyster soup. 

KEEBOBBED OYSTERS.— RORER STYLE. 

50 large oysters, % c. minced celery or 2 tbsp. dried cel- 
ery, 1 pt. cracker crumbs, 4 eggs beaten light with 4 tbsp. milk, 
1 tsp. salt, Vs tsp. white pepper, 1i tbsp. butter, 1 c. oyster liquor. 

Prepare the oysters according to the general rules. Dip 
each oyster into the egg mixture and then roll in cracker 
crumbs. Arrange a layer in a buttered baking dish. Then 
sprinkle with salt, pepper, celery and parsley. Dot with bits of 
butter. Then arrange another layer in the same manner, and so 
on, until the materials are used up. Then sprinkle with cracker 
crumbs, and dot with bits of butter. Pour over this the oyster 
liquor which has been clarified. Bake about 20 m. Serve hot. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Drain the liquor from the oysters. Clarify the liquor and 
wash the oysters in cold water. Prepare crackers or bread 
crumbs by rolling fine but do not sift them. Place a layer of the 
crumbs over the bottom of a buttered baking dish. Fill the dish 
with alternate layers of oysters and buttered and seasoned 
crumbs. For 1 pt. oysters use Vs tsp. white pepper, 1 tsp. salt, 2 
tbsp. butter and 1 c. crumbs. Melt the butter and blend with the 
crumbs and seasoning before placing in layers with the oysters. 
Use the oyster liquor to moisten the scallop, and if this is not 
sufficient, add milk or hot water. Bake in hot oven 20 m. 



FOR KANSAS KOOKS 37 

OYSTERS WITH MACARONI. 

1 pt. oysters, 1 so. c. macaroni broken into V2 in. pieces, 
3 level tbsp. butter, 1 tsp. salt, % tsp. white pepper. 1 c. bread or 
cracker crumbs. 

Prepare the oysters according to general rules. Cook the 
macaroni In boiling salted water till tender. Drain and place 
a layer of it on the bottom of a buttered baking dish, then add 
a layer of oysters dipped in crumbs. Fill the dish in this way. 
Sprinkle each layer with salt and pepper and dot vith butter. 
Finish with macaroni on top. Spread a layer of crumb.s over 
this, dot with butter and baste with V4 c. boiling water. Bake 
20 m. in a hot oven. 

Akna C. PF'Tetze. 






38 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 



SOUPS. 



"Few things are impossible to diligence and skill." 
POTATb SOUP. 

1 c. diced potatoes, 1 tsp. minced onions, 1 tsp. salt, % tsp. 
■white pepper, % tbsp. flour, % tbsp. butter, 1 pt. milTv. 

Cook the potato in water enough to cover until tender. Heat 
the milk and onion in a double boiler. When the potatoes are 
cooked mash fine and add to the milk. Make a white sauce by 
melting the butter and blending in the flour and seasonings. 
Take 1 c. of the liquid from the double boiler and add a little at 
a time to the flour and butter mixture. Boll 5 m., and add to the 
mixture in the double boiler. Serve hot with croutons. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

1 qt. stock and milk, V/z doz. stalks of asparagus, 1 tbsp. 
butter, 1 tbsp. flour, 1 tsp. salt, 14, tsp. white pepper. 

Cook the asparagus in boiling salted water until tender. Cut 
off the heads and mash the stalks through a colander. Save the 
water in which the vegetable is cooked and add milk to make 1 
qt. Heat with the strained asparagus in a double boiler. ^lake 
a white sauce of the l)utter, flour and seasonings, and add 1 c. of 
liquid from the double boiler. Boil ~> m. Blend the sauce into 
the milk mixture, add the asparagus heads and serve. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

1 can tomatoes, 1 qt. milk, 1 tbsp. flour, 1 tbsp. butter, Vi 
tsp. soda, % tsp. salt, spk. of white pepper. 

Stew the tomatoes until soft and tender. Heat the milk 
In a double boiler. Make a white sauce of the other ingredients, 
except soda, using 1 c. hot milk for the liquid. Cook 10 m. and 
stir into the remainder of the milk. Add the soda to the toma- 
toes, and when the foaming has ceased strain them into the hot 
milk. Serve at once, as it may curdle after standing for some 
time. 

CORN SOUP. 

1 pt. corn pulp, 1 pt. cold water, 1 qt. milk, 2 tbsp. butter, 1 
tbsp. flour, slice of onion, 2 tsp. salt, 14 tsp. white pepper. 

Chop the corn fine, add the water and cook 20 m. Heat the 



FOR KANSAS KOOKS 39 

milk in a double 'boiler with the onion. Remove the onion before 
adding the other ingredients. Make a white sauce of the butter, 
flour and seasonings, using 1 c. of the hot milk for liquid. Boil 
10 m., and add to the milk. Mash the cooked corn through a 
coarse sieve and blend into this. Serve hot. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

% c. carrot, % c. sweet potato, % c. turnips, % c. parsnips 
or salsify, % c. Irish ' potatoes, 1 tbsp. onion, 1 stalk cel- 
ery, 1 tbsp. butter, 2 tbsp. cooked rice, 1 bay leaf, 1 tsp. salt, 2 
4ts. cold water. 

Dice the vegetables and place all except the onions in a 
soup kettle. Add the seasonings and cold water. Bring slowly 
to the boiling point and cook gently for I14 hours. Melt the but- 
ter in a sauce pan, add the onion and cook until it is slightly 
transparent, but do not let it brown. Add this to the vegetables 
in the kettle. Add the rice after the soup has cooked % hour. 
Serve .with sippets. 

BISQUE OF SALMON. 

2 c. hot water and 2 c. cold cooked rice, heated and 
mashed thru a strainer. To 1 c. salmon, after removing the 
skin and bone, add 1 tsp. salt, 1 bay leaf, 1 tbsp. diced onion, '.{j 
tsp. white pepper, 1 c. water. Place together and let stand on the 
back of the stove until steaming hot. Heat 1 qt. milk in a 
double boiler. Strain the salmon mixture and add to this. Add 
the strained rice. Beat In 1 tbsp. butter, and serve hot. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. 

1 head of celery, 1 qt. milk or Va milk and \^ water, 1 tbsp. 
butter, 1 tbsp. flour, V2 tsp. salt, ii tsp. white pepper, 1 tbsp. 
chopped onion. 

Wash the celery, cut into dice and cook it with the onion in 
boiling salted water till tender. Mash thru a strainer. Heat the 
milk in a double boiler. Make a white sauce by melting the but- 
ter, adding the flour, salt and pepper, then a cup of the hot milk, 
a little at a time, and cook for 10 m. Add this to the milk in 
the double boiler. Then add the strained celery and celery 
stock. Cook for 5 m., and serve with crisp crackers. 

Note. — The onion may be omitted. 

POTATO SOUP. 

1% c. diced potatoes, 2 o. milk or meat stock, 2 eggs, 
i/L- c. cream, 1 tsp. salt (it potatoes have not been cooked in 
salted water), % tsp. pepper. 

Cook the potatoes in boiling water. Drain and mash. Add 
the heated milk and cream. Beat in the eggs. Cook as for soft 



40 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 

custard until thickened. Add the seasonings. Strain and serve 
hot with wafers. 

Other vegetables may be prepared in this way, as asparagus, 
corn, etc. This may be used in case of fevers when no solid 
food can be taken. 

BOUILLION. 

1 qt. chicken broth, 1 tbsp. (level) beef extract. 1 tsp. salt, 
spk. pepper. 

Dissolve the beef extract in the chicken broth, which has 
bijen broiight to the boiling point. Add the salt and pepper. 
Serve hot in cups with a slice of lemon in each cup. 

This recipe may be served from a chafing-dish. 

Adelaide E. WrLDEn, B. S, 'n, M. S. '00. 




FOR KANSAS KOOKS 4J. 



SALADS. 



"Mil salad days ! When I was green in jitdgment, cold in blovd." 

There are few vegetables, Iruits or meats known which can 
not he made into a palatable salad, ii properly prepared. 

The objective points in making salads are to have the in- 
gredients fresh and thoroughly chilled before blending them« to- 
gether. Salads should not be combined with the dressing — 
especially oil dressing — until just before serving. 

Salads may be made of left overs of meats, vegetables, or 
fruits, but care must be taken that proper combinations are ob- 
served. 

POTATO SALAD. 

2 c. cold boiled potatoes cut into small dice, 1 c. cucum- 
ber pickle diced, 2 tbsp. ouion chopped fine or 10 drops onion 
juice. 

Blend and maranate with cooked salad dressing till well 
moistened. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING. 

3 eggs, 1 dash cayenne pepper, Vi tsp. mustard,- Vz c. 
vinegar, 3 tbsp. water, '/. tsp. salt, 2 tbsp. butter. 

Put the cayenne, mustard, water and vinegar in a saiice pan 
and boil 1 m. Then remove to back part of stove, add the well 
beaten eggs and stir over hot water till cooked thick as for a 
custard, but do not boil. Then put in the butter and stir till 
thick and smooth. Add y^ tsp. salt and strain. This dressing 
will keep for several days ii kept in a cool place. 

FROZEN TOMATO SALAD. 

1 qt. can tomatoes, 1 tsp. salt, juice 1 lemon, 10 drops onion 
juice, 1 c. finely diced English walnuts, 1 tsp. gelatine, % c. 
boiling tomato juice, y^ c. cold tomato juice. 

Soak gelatine in cold tomato juice for M, hour. Dissolve In 
hot juice and cool. From the can of tomatoes take all the pulp 
and juice and press through a sieve. Season with the salt, pep- 
per, onion juice and lemon. Add gelatine mixture, put in freezer 
and freeze to a slush according to general rules for ices. Put in 



42 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 

the walnuts, pack in mold for i hour. Serve on a bed of lettuce 
•with French dressing. The nuts may be sprinkled over the mold 
if they are not added before molding. 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING. 

Vi tsp. white pepper, 1/2 tsp. salt, 2 or 3 tbsp. olive oil, 1 tbsp. 
vinegar, 1 tbsp. lemon juice. 

Mix salt, pepper and olive oil together. When the salt is 
dissolved add the vinegar and lemon juice while stirring vio- 
lently. 

Note. — Two tbsp. juice may be used instead of vinegar. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

4 c. cabbage chopped fine, 1 c. cream beaten or whipped. 
1 lip. tsp. powdered sugar, 2 tsp. salt, % tsp. pepper, juice 1 
lemon. 

Maranate the cabbage with the lemon juice, then bleTid in 
cream, pepper and salt, and serve on a bed of lettuce. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

1 c. chicken diced fine, 1 c. cabbage or celery. 
Maranate with cooked salad dressing and serve. 

1 c. of diced nuts and % c. of diced veal may be added 
with the above ingredients, making variety salad. 

HAM AND NUT SALAD. 

2 c. ham diced in %, inch dice, 1 c. pecans diced. 

Blend the meat and nuts together and maranate with Mayon- 
naise salad dressing, made as follows: 

MAYONNAISE SALAD DRESSING. 

1 tsp. mustard, 1 tsp. powdered sugar, % salt, 14 tsp. cay- 
enne pepper, yolks 2 raw eggs, 1 pt. oilve oil, 2 tsp. vinegar, 2 
tsp. lemou juice. 

Mix the mustard, sugar, salt, and pepper, then add the well 
beaten eggs. Add the oil a few drops at a time. When it is stiff 
and stringy, then use 1 tsp. raw egg, then the remainder of the 
oil, alternately with the vinegar and lemon juice, using the 
lemon juice last. The white of 1 egg may be added if a thin 
dressing is desired. Dilute with whipped cream if a whiter 
dressing is desired. 

SALMON SALAD. 

2 c. shredded salmon (canned), 1 c. English walnuts 
(diced fine), 1 c. celery chopped fine. 

Blend the salmon, walnuts and celery together thoroughly 
and maranate with cooked salad dressing. 



FOR KANSAS KOOKS 43 

EGGS AND CHEESE SALAD. 

% dozen hard cooked eggs, 1 c. grated cheese, 2 tbsp. 
cucumber pickle chopped fine. 

Slice the eggs in a salad dish and cover thicMy with grated 
cheese, then a layer of cucumber pickle,, then salad dressing. 
Sprinkle cheese over all. Serve with toasted cracker. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

1 c. cream (whipped), whites 2 eggs, % c. orange juice, 
1 c. powdered sugar, 2 oranges (diced), 1 c. bananas (diced), 
% c. pineapples (diced). 

Add % c. sugar to cream and whip. Add the rest 
of the sugar to the stiffly beaten whites of eggs, fold 
together, adding the orange juice, then pour over the sliced 
fruit. Place the oranges, bananas and pineapples in alternate 
layers and sprinkle with 1 tbsp. sugar. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

B4>NANA SALAD. 

% dozen bananas (diced), 1 c. almonds (diced), juice 
1 lemon. 

Blend the bananas and almonds together and pour over them 
the lemon juice. Maranate with Mayonnaise dressing. 

SALMON SALAD. 

2 c. shirred salmon, 2 c. cabbage (cut fme); 1 tsp. salt. 
Blend together and maranate with a salad dressing. 

Mariox Joxks. 



44 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 



YEAST BREADS. 



' ' Wlio has not lieard of home-made bread, 
As tough as putty and heavy as lead f " 

GENtRAL RULES FOR BREAD-MAKING. 

Use the regular bread flour, as it contains more gluten than 
pastry flour, and hence will become lighter. Warm the flour 
Just before mixing, especially in cold weather. Always use freah 
yeast. It you use milk, heat it to retard fermentation; if you 
use whey, heat it also ; or, if milk and water, heat both. In every 
case be sure the liquid has cooled to lukewarm before using, or 
you will injure the yeast plant. Use sugar in bread, as it hastens 
the growth of the yeast plant. Wheat fjour contains a little 
sugar by nature. Starch is changed to sugar, and sugar to al- 
cohol and carbon dioxide gas. This gas is the quality in bread 
which gives it lightness. Potatoes are sometimes added in set- 
ting a sponge. If the flour is an inferior quality they make the 
bread better because the yeast plant works on the potato starch 
flrst. If the flour is good they need not be used. Shorteuinjg 
makes the bread more crisp and tender and requires less knead- 
ing. Butter gives the bread the best flavor, but lard makes it 
whiter. Always stir the shortening into the hot liquid. For buns, 
rolls or shortcake excess of sugar is added. Always mix bread in 
a deep earthen or granite pan. Wood may be used but the wood 
takes the odors. Tin pans may be used if new and bright. 
National, Yeast Foam and Ralston are the best brands of dried 
yeast on the market. Yeast is good wlien it is foamy and full of 
gas bubbles and has a pungent odor. It is poor when it is watery, 
has an acid odor or when a scum collects on the top. The 
quicker bread is fixed and baked the whiter it will be. Never al- 
low bread that is rising to be placed in a draft or where it will 
become cold. The yeast plant grows best in a temperature of 
75° to 80° F., hen'ie the sponge should be kept over a water bath 
that is about lukewarm. 

TEMPERATURE FOR BAKING. 

Place a tsp. of flour in a, small pan and set it in the oven. If 
it browns in from 4 to 5 m. the oven is hot enough for rolls; 5 
to 6 m., for loaves. Keep the temperature at these points for 
the first 10 m., then gradually let it lower while baking. 

TESTS WHEN DONE. 

When you hit the loaf on the bottom with the fingers and it 
has a hollow sound. Hold the bottom of the loaf on the palm of 
the hand and it does not burn the hand. 



FOR KANSAS KOOKS 45 

CARE OF BREAD AFTER iT IS BAKED, 

Remove loaves from the pan and place where the air will 
circulate freely. Ne^er lea\e bread in the pan or turn it out on 
a pine table to cool. 11 you want crust crisp do not cover. When 
perfectly cold put into a stone jar or tin bread-box. Keep these 
free from dust and stale crumbs, and always clean thoroughly 
before putting in fresh bread. 

Note. — % c. yeast means % cake dry yeast the size of a 
Yeast Foam cake, or a piece of compressed yeast % as large, dis- 
solved in % c. lukewarm water with 14 1-sp. sugar. This is equal 
to % cup liquid yeast. 

BRbAD (WHITE OR WHOLE WHEAT). 

2 c. milk or water scalded and cooled, % tbsp. fat — lard, 
butter or nutcoa, 1 % tsp. salt, 1 level tsp sugar, li c. yeast, 6 or 
7 c. flour. 

Dissolve Vn cake Yeast Foam in % c. warm water and add 
the sugar. Measure the two cups liquid, add butter and salt, 
then the yeast and sugar. Stir in flour enough to make a stiff 
drop batter. I^et rise until double its bulk. Add the remainder 
of the fiour, put in oiled pan and let rise again and when it has 
doubled its bulk knead into loaves. Let rise again and liake. 
liOaves require from one-half to one hour for baking, depending 
upon size of loaf. 

CINNAMON ROLLS. 

Use same recipe as for bread sponge, but add VI cup butter, 
1 egg beaten separately, % c. sugar. When ready to roll into 
loaves, roll into rectangular sheets % inch thick and spread with 
butter. Sprmkle over this 1 tbsp. sugar and 1 tsp. cinnamon. 
Roll as .ielly cake and cut into slices V2 inch thick. Place in a 
pan and let rise untii they double their bulk. Bake in a moderate 
oven. 

VIENNA ROLLS. 

1 c. milk, 1 tbsp. butter, % tbsp. sugar, V2 tsp. salt, 1 egg, 
3 or 4 e. white bread flour. 

Add butter to the hot milk, cool to lukewarm, add sugar, 
salt and beaten egg to I/2 c. yeast. Add flour to make a thiu bat- 
ter. Let rise and mi:-; stiff. Let rise again, roll in thin sheets, 
cut in squares and roll or fold. 

SVk'EDlSH ROLLS. 

1 pint of milk scalded, % c. butter. Vi e. sugar, 1 tsp. salt, 1/2 
c. yeast, whites of 2 eggs beaten till stiff, 8 c. flour. 

Mix as for cinnamon rolls, let rise, roll out into sheets, 
sprinkle the top after it is buttered with 1 tsp. cinnamon, 1 tbsp. 



4t'r A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 

swgai-, grated rind ot 1 lemon and % c, currants. Roll as jelly 
cake, cut into slices % inch thick, place in a pan and let rise un- 
til they are double their bulk. Glaze the top with 1 tsp. sugar in 
% c. milk, and when they f,i-e baked glaze again and let brown. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

1 pint milk scalded, 1 tbsp. butter, 1% tsp. salt, 1 tbsp. sugar, 
^^2 c. yeast, white of 1 egg stiffly beaten. 

Mix as for bread. When sponge is light add the stiffly 
beaten white of egg. Mix stiff, let rise, roll out and cut for twin 
rolls or pocket book rolls or other fancy shapes. Bake in mod- 
erate o\'en. 

BREAD STICKS. 

1 c. milk heated, Vi' c. butter, 1 tbsp. sugar, % tsp. salt, % 
cup yeast, white of 1 egg, 4 c. flour. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, dissolve this in the hot 
milk. Cool to lukewarm and add the yeast. Fold in the white 
of the egg, then the sifted flour. Let dough stand until more 
than double its bulk, shape into small balls and roll out with the 
palms of the hand into long thin rolls or sticks. Place in stick 
pans, let rise and bake in a moderate oven. 

RUSKS. 

To 4 c. sponge add % c. creamed butter, 1 egg beaten to- 
gether, 3 c. sugar. Beat this mixture into the sponge then make 
velvety dough by adding bread flour. Let rise until double its 
bulk, roll into small balls, let rise again, glaze and bake. 

Note. — In making spouge for rolls, cake, etc., make softer 
than for bread. 

DATE BREAD. 

2 c. bread sponge prepared with milk, 2 tbsp. sugar, enough 
whole wheat flour to make stiff batter, I'cnp stoned dates. 

Then add more flour until you have a smooth dough, turn 
into a pan and let rise until double its balk. Bake in loaves. 

RAISED BREAD CAKE. 

1 pint milk, 1 tsp. salt, % e. yeast, 5 or 6 c. flour. 

Set sponge at night. When light add 1 c. butter creamed with 
2 cups brown sugar, 1 tsp. cinnamon, i/o tsp. nutmeg, % tsp. al- 
spice, 4 eggs beaten separately. Fold this mixture through the 
sponge. Reserve the whites until the last. Flour 2 cups stoned 
raisins and '/. cup citron. Fold in carefully and let rise. Stir 
down and let rise again. Pour into deep tins filling them about 
% full, let rise again and bake in moderate oven. 

Elizabeth J. Agnew. 



FOR KANSAS KOOKS 47 

BAKING POWDER MIXTURES. 



GENERAL RULES. 

First, have a hot oven. The flour must be sifted before mea- 
suring. The pans or muffin-rings should be well oiled before the 
mixture is prepared. Iron gem pans must be heated. 

The mixtures containing small quantities of butter, and 
cooked as breakfast cakes, are put together by first blending all 
the dry ingredients and then adding the liquid blended. The 
butter is melted and added last. For griddle cakes, muffins and 
gems the eggs are usually beaten together. For flannel cakes 
the eggs aVe beaten separately. 

To test when done use a clean straw or a heated knitting 
needle. If one comes out dry the bread is done. Another test 
is to press with the fingers. If it springs back it is done. Any 
baking powder mixture will loosen from the sides of the pan 
when done. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUITS. 

2 c. flour, 2 tsp. baking powder, % tsp. salt, 1 tbsp. butter, 
lard or a mixture of both. Milk or water to make a soft dough. 

Sift the flour before measuring, add the salt and baking 
powder and mix well. Work in the shortening with the tips of 
the fingers until it is like meal. Add the liquid and mix with a 
spoon. Turn onto a floured board and roll or pat into a sheet 
Vs inch thick. Cut with a biscuit cutter and bake 12 to 15 m. in 
a hot oven. Do not knead biscuits and do not let them stand be- 
fore baking. 

WHOLE WHEAT GEMS. 

y2 c- whole wheat flour, % c. pastry flour, 2 tsp. baking pow- 
der, % tsp. salt, % c. sugar, y2 c. sweet milk, 1 egg, 1 tbsp. but- 
ter melted. • 

Mix according to general rules and bake in gem pans. 

These may be prepared with white flour. 

CORN MUFFINS. 

1 c. flour, % c. corn meal, 2 tsp. baking powder, 1 tsp. sugar, 
1/2 tsp. salt, 1 egg, 1 tbsp. shortening, % c. milk. 

Mix according to general rules and bake in hot muffin rings. 

SALLY LUNDS. 

2 cups pastry flour, 2 tsp. baking powder, % tsp. salt, 2 eggs 
beaten separately, % c. sweet milk, 2 tbsp. butter melted. 

Mix the dry ingredients. Beat the yolks, add the milk, blend 



48 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 

with the dry materials. Add the melted butter and add the stiffly- 
beaten whites last. Bake in a hot oven. 

If wanted for ted add i^ c. sugar and a tbsp. butter. Use 
scant measure of milk and add 1 c. blueberries, or % c. chopped 
figs or dates. 

POP OVERS. 

% c. flour, 14 tsp. salt, 1 sc. c. milk, 1 egg beaten separately, 
% tsp. baking powder. 

Sift the flour, salt and baking powder together. Blend the 
beaten yolk of egg with the milk and add the dry ingredients. 
Fold in the beaten whites. Bake at once in a hot oven in muffin 
rings. 

GRIODLE CAKES. 

1 c. flour, 1 tsp. salt, 1 % tsp. baking powder, 1 tsp. butter, 
% c. sweet milk, 1 egg. 

Sift the dry ingredients together, blend with the milk and 
beaten egg, add the butter and beat well. Pour on a well oiled 
griddle and bake. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

2yz c. flour, % tsp. salt, 2 tsp. baking powder, 2 c. sweet milk, 
2 eggs. 

Mix according to general rules. Beat the eggs separately, 
adding the whites last. Bake on a well oiled griddle. 

INDIAN MEAL CAKES. 

1 pt. Indian meal, 1 tsp. salt. Blend these together and pour 
over it enough boiling water to make thinner than mush. Let 
stand 2 or 3 minutes. Pour in a mixing bowl to cool. Add the 
yolks of 4 eggs beaten to a cream, and % c. sifted pastry flour to 
which 3 tsp. baking powder has been added. Bake on a griddle. 

WAFFLES,, 

1 V2 c. flour, 1 tsp. baking powder, V4 tsp. salt, 2 eggs, 1 e. 
milk or thin cream. 

Mix according to general rules. Beat the eggs separately 
and blend yolks with the milk. Add whites last. Bake on hot 
well buttered waffle-irons first on one side then on the other. 

CORN BREAD. 

2 c. corn meal, 1 c. flour, 1 tbsp. melted butter, 1 tsp. salt. 
2% tsp. baking powder, 2 eggs well beaten, 1% c. sweet milk. 

Add 1 c. milk to the eggs and blend with the dry ingredients, 
add the remainder of milk if needed, blend in the melted butter 



FOR KANSAS KOOKS 49 

and bake in muffin rings. 1 tbsp. sugar aJded gives a sweet corn 
bread. 

CORN BREAD— II. 

1 pint corn meal, % c. sugar, 1 pint sifted flour, 3.1ieaping 
tsp. baking powder, i pint sweet milk, 2 eggs, % c. butter. 
Mix according to general rules, beat well and bake. 

GERMAN PUFFS. 

1 sc. c. sweet milk, 2% c. pastry flour, 1 tbsp. butter, % tsp. 
salt, 2 tsp. baking powder, 4 eggs beaten separately. 

Beat the yolks to a cream. Warm the butter in the milk until 
melted. Cool, then stir in slowly the creamed yolks, and blend in 
this the dry ingre(Jients. Lastly fold in the beaten whites of eggs 
and bake as muffins in a hot oven. 

BAKING POWDER STICKS. 

3 c. flour, % tsp. salt, 2 tsp. baking powder, 2 tsp. butter. 

Mix as for biscuits and blend with enough sweet milk to 
make a smooth, soft dough. Roll % inch thick and cut in strips 
% inch wide and 4 inches long. Bake as for biscuits. 

These may be cut in rounds 1% inches in diameter. Brush 
the tops of half of the rounds with butter, place the other rounds 
on these for twin biscuits. 

STEAMED SNOW BALLS. 

1 c. sugar, 1 c. flour, 2 tbsp. milk, 3 eggs, 1 tsp. baking pow- 
der, 1 tsp. flavoring. 

Beat the whites of the eggs until stiff. Beat the yolks to a 
cream, and blend with the milk. Fold in the beaten whites. Add 
the dry ingredients together and add to the egg mi.xture. Add 
the flavoring. Drop 1 tbsp. dough into each of the buttered 
steamer cups or tea cups. Place in a steamer for 20 m. Serve 
with whipped cream. 

FRITTER BATTER. 

1 c. pastry flour, 2 eggs, % tsp. salt, V2 c. sweet milk, 1 tbsp. 
melted butter. 

Sift the dry ingredients. Beat the egg separately. Add the 
iriilk to the yolks, add the dry ingredients and blend until smooth. 
Add the butter and beat from 3 to 5 m. Add the whites of eggs 
last. This may be used for apple fritters, oysters, or salsify. 

SWEDISH TYMBALS. 

1 c. flour, 1 c. milk, 2 eggs, % tsp. each salt and sugar, 1 tbsp. 
olive oil. 

Beat the eggs until light then add the milk and blend with 



50 A KANSAS KOOJC-BOOK 

the dry ingredients. Beat until perfectly smooth, then add the 
oil and beat 3 minutes longer. Pry on tyinbal irons. May be 
filled with fruit or salad, creamed oysters or chicken. 

SHORT CAKE. 

1 c. flour, Vz tsp. salt, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tsp. baking powder. 
Mix according to general rules for biscuits and moisten with 

enough cream to make a soft dough. Roll y^ inch thick and bake_ 
in 2 layers. When done butter and fill with fresh fruit, stewed 
dried fruit or preserves. Serve with whipped cream. 

PEACH CAKE. 

2 c. flour, 2 tsp. baking powder, Vi tsp. salt, 1 c. milk (sc), 
1 egg, 2 tbsp. butter, 2 tbsp. sugar, 1 pint sliced peaches. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, then add the whole beaten 
egg and cream. Add the dry ingredients alternately with the 
milk, bake in layer cake tins. Cut either fresh or canned peaches 
in thin slices and place in rows over the top of the cake. 
Sprinkle lightly with sugar and bake in a quick oven. Serve 
with fruit syrcip. 






FOR KANSAS KOOK3 51 



CAKES. 



'• Wouldst thou both eat thy cake and have it'"' 
GENERAL RULES. 

See that the oven is ready for baking and have the pans 
ready prepared. Use either lard or nutcoa to grease the pans 
First, cream the butter in a warm bowl, add sugar gradually and 
work to a perfect cream. When you have an excess of sugar and 
little butter, cream in as much sugar as the butter will take and 
add the remainder of the sugar to the beaten yolks of the eggs, 
then blend both together. Very fine granulated sugar will cream 
better. In nearly all recipes yolks and whites should be beaten 
separately, the yolks added to the butter and sugar mixture and 
the whites added last. If spices are used sift in. Add milk and 
flour alternately. Add the whites last, folding them. in as you 
do omelet. Never beat them in unless so stated in the recipe. 
When fruit is added> it should first be dusted with flour and ad- 
ded jvist before the vi'hties of eggs. Cake should be baked from 
20 m. to several hours. 

PAPER TEST FOR OVEN. 

Tear off unprinted corner of a newspaper and place in small 
pan in oven. When it browns in 7 minutes it is right tempera- 
ture for sponge loaf cake, in 5 m, for butter loaf cake, in 4 m. for 
layer cake. 

PLAIN CAKE. 

V; c. butter, 1 c. sugar, 2 eggs, % c. milk, V/z c. flour, 1 tsp. 
liaking powder, 1 tsp. spice or 1 tsp. flavoring. 

Mix according to general rules. May be baked either as a 
loaf or in layers. 

ONE-EGG CAKE. 

% c. butter creamed, 1 c. sugar, 1 egg, Ic. milk, 2 c. 
flour, Vi tsp. salt, 2 tsp. baking powder, 1 tsp. flavoring. 

Mix in the order given. Bake in layers and serve with fruit 
filling and syrup. 

WALNUT CAKE. 

Cream y^c. butter with 1% c. sugar, % c. milk, 3 eggs 



52 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 

beaten separately, 2 c. flour sifted with I'/i tsp. baliing powder, 
1 c. walinit meats chopped and dredged with flour. 

Mix according to general rules. Bake in loaf. Ice with- 
plain boiled frosting. 

PINEAPPLE CAKE. 

Cream 1 c. butter with 2 c. sugar, \i c milk, 6 eggs beaten 
separately, 3 c. flour sifted with 2 tsp. Daking powder. 

Mix and bake in jelly tins. Fill with the following i Make 
thick boiled Icing In which squeeze the juice of 2 oranges. 
Spread thckly over the layers of cake and sprinkle with shredded 
or grated pineapple. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

2 c. sugar, % c. butter, 2% c. flour, whites b eggs, 2 tsp. 
baking powder, 1 c. cold water. 

Mix according to general rules. Bake in layers and flU with 
the following. Three c. sugar, 12 tbsp. water, cook together till 
spins thread. Pour slowly into stifly beaten whites of 3 eggs. 
Beat vigorously till thick enough to spread, adding 2 tsp. vanilla 
and % tsp. citric acid. Spread this Va in. thick between the 
layers with a thlnn,er layer for the top. 

SPANISH CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

2 c. sugar, % c. butter, tVz c. flour, 1 c. water, 2 eggs, 2 
even tsp. baking powder, Vi cake chocolate melted in % c. milk 
over steam, 1 tsp. baking powder added last. 

Mix first six Ingredients as in plain cake. Then stir in 
n.elted chocolate and add the extra spoon of baking powder. 
Bake in layers and fill with plain boiled frosting. 

CHOCOLATE NOUGAT. 

Part 1. — One-fourth c. butter, 1% c. powdered sugar, 1 egg, 
% c. sweet milk, 2 e. flour, 2 tsp. baking powder, 1 tsp. flavoring. 

Part 2. — Three oz. Walter Baker's chocolate, 3 tbsp. gran, 
sugar, % c. water, y^ c. milk, 1 c. almonds chopped fine. 

Part 1. — Sift flour thoroughly before measuring. Measure 
baking powder and sift together. Cream the butter and add the 
sugar slowly, then add the egg without beating and beat the 
mixture thoroughly for 5 m. Add the flavoring, then the milk 
a part at a time alternating with the flour. 

Part 2. — Grate the chocolate, add sugar and water together 
and cook until the mixture is thick, smooth and glossy. Add 
the milk and cool the mixture to luke warm. Then blend the 
two mixtures together and add the blanched almonds. Bake in 
layers 20 m. Fill with plain boiled frosting flavored with vanilla. 



FOR KANSAS KOOKo 53 

BLACKBERRY CAKE. 

% c. butter, 1 c. sugar, 3 eggs, 2 c. flour, 1 c. blackberry- 
jam or seeded blackberries, 3 tbsp. sour milk, 1 tsp. soda, spices 
to taste. 

Mix according to general rules. Bake in 3 layers. 

FIG CAKE. 

1 c. sugar, % c. butter, 1 c. seeded raisins, % lb. figs, 2 c. 
flour, 2 eggs, 2 tsp. baking powder, % c. boiling water, 1 tsp. nut- 
meg, 1 tsp. cinnamon. 

Chop figs and raisins and pour % c. warm water over them. 
Let stand on back of stove till cake is mixed according to gen- 
eral rules. Then add fruit mixture. Can be baked in layers or 
loaf. Ice with the following: One-half lb. powdered sugar, 1 
tbsp. boiling water, grated rind of 1 orange, suffiicent orange 
juice to fnoisten. The icing should be very stiff. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

2 eggs, 1 c. sugar, 1 tbsp. melted butter, % c. milk, 1% 
c. pastry flour, 1% tsp. baking powder, 1 tbsp. orange juice, 1 
tsp. grated orange rind. 

Mix in order given, bake in layers and fill with orange cream 
as follows: Juice of 1 orange ,1 tbsp. lemon juice. Place these 
in a cup together, fill with water to make % c, add 1 tsp. grated 
rind. Place in granite sauce pan on the stove and when it boils 
add 1 tbsp. corn starch that has been moistened to the consist- 
ency of thick cream. Let cook Until it thickens. Beat the yolk 
of 1 egg until creamy, add 1 heaping tbsp. sugar and blend into 
the hot starch mixture, beating in 1 tsp. butter or cream. Strain 
and cool and spread between layers of cake that have been 
frosted with orange icing made as follows: White of 1 egg, 3 
tbsp. lemon juice, 1 sc. c. powdered sugar. Beat together until 
thick and creamy, spread on cake while hot. 

BOILED SPONGE CAKE. 

6 eggs, IVi c. granulated sugar, I14 c. pastry flour, 2 tbsp. 
lemon juice and 4 tbsp. water or 6 tbsp. water. 

Beat eggs separately and blend together. Boil sugar and 
water together till clear, add the lemon juice, pour over the egg 
mixture and beat with egg flap till cool, and then add the flour. 
Bake in loaf or square sheets. 

IMPERIAL FRUIT CAKE. 

1 lb. butter, 1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. flour, 1 lb. stoned raisins, 
quartered, 1 lb. citron diced fine, 1 lb. prepared currants, I/2 lb. 



P-i A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 

almonds diced fine, 8 eggs beateft separately, 2 tsp. baking 
powder, 14 c. orange juice. 

Prepare £ruit according to general rules. Cream the butter, 
add the sugar then the yolks of eggs, then the fruit and the 
■whites. Add flour and orange juice alternately. 

This makes two 3 lb. cakes. 

ANGEL FOOD. 

1 c. pastry flour +, i% c. pulverized sugar, whites of 9 
large or 10 small eggs, spk. salt added to eggs before beating-, 1 
level tsp. cream of tartar, % tsp. flavoring. 

Beat the eggs until dry and stiff, add the cream of tartar 
when half beaten, fold in the flour which has been sifted five 
times, then the sugar sifted five limes. Add the flavoring to the 
eggs while beating. Fold but do not sttir the mixture. Bake 
from 45 m. to 1 hour in a. very slow oven, in an unbuttereu tin. 

ANGEL FOOD— II. 

] c. flour measured after sifting, then mix with 1 tsp. cream 
of tartar and sift 4 tunes. Beat the whites of 11 eggs until they 
are stiff and dry. Add 1% c. pulverized or sifted granulateri 
sugar, with 1 tsp. flavoring, then add the flour quickly, po'ir in 
unbutteved cake pans and bake in very slow oven. When done 
loosen from pan at once and turn out. 

GENOESE CAKE. 

3 eggs, weigh them, take eaual weight of butter, sugar and 
flour. Add % tsp. salt, 1 tsp. flavoring. Cream the butter, add 
the sugar and beat till very light. Add salt and flavoring, then 
add eggs one at a time, beating thoroughly. Beat for 15 or 20 m. 
after adding the last egg, then fold in lightly the sifted flour. 
Bake in thin layers. 

MADELINES. 

Fill two layers of Genoese cake with peach marmalade and 
'set away until it is perfectly firm (24 hours). Cut in fancy 
shapes and frost the outside. Decorate the top with candied 
fruits and nuts. 

ASHLAND CAKE. 

% cup butter, £ c. sweet milk, 1 c. sugar, t-fc— sttgftr, ] c. 
flour, % c. corn starch, whites 4 eggs, 3 level tsp. baking powder, 
1 tsp. flavoring. 

Mix according to general rules, bake in 2 layers. Excellent 
with cocoanut icing or any of the following fillings: 

Plain Boiled Icing. — 1 c. granulated sugar. '/, c. water, white 
of ] egg. % tsp. flavoring. 



l^OR KANSAS KOOKS 55 

Blend sugar and water together, but do not stir ai'tcr it 
begins to boil. Boil in a granite pan until it threads. Beat white 
of egg until stiff. Pour the hot syrup in a flue stream ovor the 
egg, add the flavoring, and beat until thick enough to spread on 
the cake. If a thick filling is desired the recipe may be doubled. 

Note — If this cooks too long it becomes granular, in which 
case % c. hot water may be added, the icing boiled, beaten and 
cooled again. 

Cocoanut Filling. — Add V* c. shredded cocoanut to above 
recipe before spreading on the cake. 

Marshmallow Filling. — Cut Vi lb. marshmallows into fine 
bits with scissors or sharp knife and add to the syrup for plain 
boiled icing. When the marshmallows dissolve proceed as in the 
above recipe. 

Chocolate Filling. — Melt 2 squares of Baker's chocolate with 
1 tbsp. hot water and add to the plain boiled icing before spread- 
ing on the cake. 

Caramel Filling. — 1% c. sugar, % c. milk, % c. caramelized 
sugar, % tsp. vanilla, % tsp. butter. 

Blend the sugar and milk together and boil ".ntil thick and 
creamy, or till makes a soft ball in cold v/ater. Stir in rapidly 
the caramelized sugar. Add the flavoring and Gutter, remove 
from stove and beat until thick enough to spread on the cake. 
To caramelize sugar place in a small sauce pan and melt slowly 
on the back of the stove. Be Fure that it js free from lumps 
before adding to the other mixture. Avoid scorching. 

Caramel Filling. — 1 c. sugar, 1 c. cream, i tsp. flavorin;. 
Boil cream and sugar together till makes a soft ball in cold 
wkter. Remove from stove, add flavoring and beat until thick 
enough to spread. 

Maple Sugar Filling. — 1 lb. maple susar, % c. hot water, 
v.iiites of 2 eggs, 1 o. diceded English walnut meats. 

Break the sugar into fine bits. Place in a granite sauce pan, 
pour on the hot water, let it stand where it will keep hot until 
the sugar is dissolved. Move to the I'ront of the stove and boil 
until it spins a thread . Pour slowly over the stiffly beaten 
whites of eggs. Add the diced walnut meats and stir until it is 
thick enough to spread on the cake. 

Brow^n Sugar Filling. — 2 c. brown sugar, % c. boiling water, 
. 1 c. shredded cocoanut, whites of 2 eggs. 

Make a syrup of the sugar and boil until it spins a thread. 
Pour over the stiffly beaten whites, add the cocoanut and stir 
until it is thick. 

Pineapple Filling. — 1 can grated pineapple, Vz box gelatin, 
% c. sugar, juice of 1 lemon, % c. water. 

Roak the gelatin in the cold water % hr. Add the sugar 
and heat until thoroughly dissolved. Strain and add the lemon 
juice and pineapple. Turn into a square mold so that it may be 



56 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 

sliced in thin slices when cool. Set in a cool place to stitEen. 
Make a plain boiled icing and cook rather KtifE. Spread the tops 
of the layers of cake with the boiled icing. There should be 3 
layers of cake. Over the icing on 2 of the layers place a layer 
of the pineapple jelly. Cover this with boiled icing, place the 
cake together, reserving the layer which has no pinapple tor 
the top. This should be kept in a cool place and eaten while 
fresh, as it soaks after standing. 

Banana Filling. — Spread plain boiled icing on the cake as in 
the above recipe, using layers or thinly sliced bananas instead 
of the pineapple jelly. Use no flavoring in the boiled icing. 

Raising Filling. — Blend 1 c. of diced seeded raisins with 
boiled icing which is flavored wth almond. 

Nut Filling. — Use 1 c. chopped nuts with plain boile.l icing. 
The icing may be flavored with almond or vanilla. If pastachio 
nuts are used the filling may be colored green. The Ashland 
cake may be baked in a sheet and iced over the top with a thick 
layer of boiled icing. Place hickory nut meats 2 inches apart 
over the top. This may be cut in squares or diamonds, each 
piece having a nut meat in the center. 

CREAM CAKE. 

3 eggs beaten to a fizz, % tsp. salt, 1 c. brown sugar, 11/2 c. 
flour, 2 tsp. baking powder, Yz tsp. flavoring. 

Beat the eggs, add the salt and sugar, sift the baking powder 
with the flour and fold into the egg mixture. Bake in 2 layers 
in a moderate oven. When it is done remove from pans, split 
the layers and put together again with the following; 

Filling. — 2 level tbsp. corn starch, 1 c. sugar, 2 c. milk, 1 
tbsp. butter, 1 beaten egg, 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Melt the butter until it foams, blend in the corn starch, add 
1 c. of hot milk, a little at a tune, and boil 5 m. Heat the re- 
mainder of the milk in a double, boiler and dissolve the sugar in 
this. When the coi-n starch mixture is done, add it to the 
milk, stir in the beaten egg and cook 1 m. longer, add the flavor- 
ing, remove from stove and stir until cool. It is better to pre- 
pare the filling before the cake is made. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

1 e. hot water, 1/2 c. butter, 1 c. sifted Hour, 3 eggs, % tsp. 
salt. 

Boil the water and butter together 1 m. and add the flour 
a little at a time, blending the mixtures into a stiff, smooth 
paste. Cool and beat in the eggs one at a time. Drop the batter 
ill spoonfuls on buttered tins. Bake in a moderate oven about 
25 m. These may be kept several days. When ready to use, 
cut open and fill with whipped cream, or: 



FOR KANSAS KOOKS ' 57 

Cream Filling. — 1 c. milk, % c. sugar, 1 egg, 3 tsp. flour, spk. 
salt. 

Moisten the flour with part of the milk. Heat the remainder 
of the milk in a double boiler and blend the flour mixture into it. 
Cook 15 m. Be sure that the water in the lower part of the 
double boiler boils. Add the sugar and salt and cook till thor- 
oughly dissolved. Cool slightly and add the beaten egg and 1 tsp. 
fle\vorlng. Beat until cool. 

MACAROONS. 

% lb. blanched almonds or % lb. almond meal, whites of 4 
eggs, 1% lbs. powdered sugar, 1 tbsp. pastry flour. 

Pound the almonds, add the sugar a little at a time while 
pounding. If the meal is used this is not necessary. Add trom 
5 to 10 drops of almond extract. Fold in the beaten whites o( 
the eggs and drop in spoonfuls on oiled paper. Bake in a slow 
oven until slightly brown. 

LADY FINGERS. 

6 eggs, IVi c. powdered sugar, 1 c. sifted flour, Vi tsp. salt. 

Flavor with lemon, vanilla or orange flower water. Beat the 
yolks and sugar to cream, add flavoring, fold in flour, add the 
whites beaten very nrmly, bake in lady finger pans in a moderate 
oven for about 20 m. 

WHITE COOKIES. 

% c. butter, 1 c, sugar, % c. milk, 1 egg, 1 tsp. baking pow- 
der, flour to roll out, 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Cream butter, add sugar. Sift the baking powder with 1 c. 
flour. Blend the egg and milk together and add to the butter and 
sugar mixture alternately v/ith the flour. Add the flavoring and 
add as much more flour as is necessary. Roll thin and bake in a 
hot oven. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

1 egg, 1 c. sugar, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 c. milk, % tsp. salt, 

2 tsp. baking powder, 1 tsp. flavoring, flour enough to roll fmt. 

Cream the butter, add sugar, beat eggs separately, blending 
the yolks with the milk. Add the salt and baking powder to 1 c. 
sifted flour and add this to the butter and sugar mixture alter- 
r.ately with the milk and egg mixture. Fold in beaten whites, 
roll V2 inch thick and fry. 

DOUGHNUTS.— II. 

4 eggs, 2 c. sugar, 1 c. cream, 1 c. milk, 1 level tsp. cinnamon, 

3 tsp. baking powder, flour to roll light lightly. 

Blend the milk, cream and beaten eggs, add the sugar, cin- 



58 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 

namon and salt. Mix the baking powder with 1 c. flour and add. 
Add as much more flour as is necessary. Roll % inch thick and 
fry in a bath of fat. These are improved if they are rolled in 
powdered sugar after frying. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

1 c. lard, 2 c. molasses, 3 eggs, 2 level tsp. soda, 2 tbsp. gin- 
ger, 1 tbsp. cinnamon, 1 tsp. salt, flour to make a stiff dough. ' 

Mix the lard, molasses and beaten eggs with the salt and 
spices. Add the soda to a cup of flouv and stir into other mix- 
ture. Add the i-emainder of the flour. Holl very thin and bake 
in a hot oven. 

GINGER BREAD. 

% c. butter, % c. sugar, 1 c. molasses, 1 tsp. each cinnamon, 
ginger and cloves, 1 tsp. soda, 1 c. boiling water, 2i/£ c. flour, '2 
well beaten eggs. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, pour the boiling water over 
the, soda, and add it alternately with the flour. Add the mo- 
lasses and spices. Fold in eggs last. Bake in a moderate oven. 

GINGER JUMBLES. 

% c. sugar, brown is best, % c. lard, % tsp. 'salt, 1 c. mo- 
lasses, 1 c. boiling water, 2V4 c. flour, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 1 tsp. gin- 
ger, 2 ac. tsp. soda, 2 eggs beaten separately. 

Mix as in above recipe and bake in gem rings. 



FOR K.^NSAS KOOKS 59 



DESSERTS. 



■ Sweets to the sweet." 
BREAD PUDDING. 

1 pt. scalded milk, 1 tsp. butter, % c. rolled bread crumbs, 
grated rind of 1 lemon, Vs o. sugar, yolks of 2 eggs. 

Beat the eggs until light and creamy, adding 1 tsp. milk. 
Blend the sugar and butter with the egg. Add lemon rind, 
then the milk and the crumbs. Turn into a buttered baking 
dish, and place in a moderate oven until it sets. Spread a mer- 
angue made from the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs and 2 tbsp. 
powdered sugar, over the top of the pudding. Brown in the 
oven. 

RICE PUDDING. 

2 tbsp. rice, 2 c. milk, 1 tbsp. sugar, % c. diced quince pre- 
serves, spk. salt. 

Place all of the Ingredients in the upper part o£ a double 
boiler and cook slowly 1 hour. Turn into a baking dish and 
bake in a moderate oven until thick, stirring occasionally, then 
increase the heat and brown over the top. 

APRICOT SOUFFLE. 

Press 1%' e. cooked apricots thru a strainer. Season with 
1 tsp. butter, 1 tbsp. + sugar and 1 tsp. vanilla. If this is moist, 
place in a sauce pan and cook until quite dry and f.rm. Add 
the whites of 4 eggs, whipped very stiff and sweetened with 3 
tbsp. powdered sugar. Mix the purefi and merangue lightly to- 
gether and turn all into a buttered pudding dish. Smooth the 
top into a mound shape. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and 
bake 20 m. in a slow oven. Serve with hard sauce or custard 
sauce. 

Hard Sauce. — Cream 2 tbsp. butter and beat into it % c. 
pulverized sugar. Beat until smooth and creamy. Flavor with 
Ji tsp. vanilla. 

Custard Sauce. — Yolks of 3 eggs, 2 tbsp. sugar, IVa c. inilk, 
1 tsp. flavoring. Heat the milk and sugar in a double boiler. 
Beat the yolks to a cream, add them to the milk mixture, re- 
move to the back part of the stove and cook till thickened, 
stirring constantly to prevent curdling. Strain, and add the 
flavoring. This may be served hot or cold. 



60 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOIC 

CREAM OF TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

2 tbsp. pearl tapioca, 1 pt. milk, yolks of 2 eggs, y.., c. sugar, 
% tsp. salt, whites of 2 eggs, % tsp. vanilla. 

Boil the tapioca in hot water to cover until the water is 
absorbed. Add the milk and cook until the tapioca is trans- 
parent. Add the sugar and salt and boil 5 or 10 m. longer. 
Beat the yolks of eggs to a cream and add to the tapioca. Cook 
2 or 3 m. on the -back of the stove. Remove from the fire and 
fold in the stilBy beaten whites. Serve cold. 

ORANGE CHARLOTTE. 

Vz box gelatine soaked in % c. cold water % hour. 1 c. 
boiling water, juice of 1 lemon, 1^4 c. sugar, 2 c. orange juice. 

After the fruit juice is prepared strain lemon and orange 
juice together. Make a syrup of the boiling water and sugar. 
Add the gelatine to the syrup, strain, and add the fruit juice. 
Cool until slightly thickened, then fold in 1 pt. of whipped 
cream. Pour into a mold lined with orange sections. When it 
is firm turn out of the mold and serve with custard sauce. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

Chill the cream thoroughly. To 1 pt. of cream add 1 tbsp. 
powdered sugar, "^hip with a Dover egg beater or whip-churn. 
Stir down the froth two or three times bgifore skimming- any of 
it off. Take up the froth with a spoon and place it in a thin 
wire strainer suspended over a bowl which has been placed in 
a pan of ice and salt. Continue whipping and removing the 
froth until nearly all of the cream is gone. Thin cream whips 
more easily than thick, but thick cream may be thinned with 
milk. The bowl which contains the cream to be whipped should 
be kept in a pan of ice and salt while whipping. 

SOFT CUSTARD. 

1% c. sweet milk, 2 eggs, 2 tbsp. sugar, % tsp. flavoring. 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. Beat the eggs to a cream 
and add the sugar. Blend in the hot milk a little at a time until 
all is added. Return to the double boiler and cook on the back 
of the stove at a low temperature until it is thick and creamy. 
Add the flavoring, beat well and serve cold. Never lot custard 
boil. 

PRUNE PUDDING (Prof. Stoner). 

13 to 18 prunes. Crack the seeds and remove the nut. 
Chop fine both seed and pulp. Beat stiff the whites of 5 eggs, 
and gradually add to them 1% c. granulated sugar, beuting 
briskly. Flavor with 1 tsp. almond extract. Lastly ada the 



FOR KANSAS KOOKS 61 

chopped fruit. Turn into a buttered dish and bake in a very 
moderate oven 45 m. to 1 hr. Serve cold with whipped cream 
or custard sauce. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

4 tbsp. grated chocolate, 1 qt. millc, % c. sugar, 2 tbsp. corn- 
starch, 1 tsp. vanilla, 2 eggs. 

Blend the cornstarch with 1 c. of the milk, add the choco- 
late and cook 10 m., stirring constantly. Heat the remainder 
of the milk in a double boiler and blend the chocolate mixture 
into it. Add the sugar, and when it is thoroughly dissolved, 
blend in the well beaten yolks of the eggs. Add the flavoring 
and turn the pudding into a buttered baking dish. Add 2 tbsp. 
powdered sugar to the stiffly beaten whites of eggs, and spread 
this merangue over the top of the dish. Place in a moderate 
oven until slightly browned. Serve cool. 

PIE PASTE. 

IVz c. pastry flour, Va tsp. baking powder, % tsp. salt, % c. 
fresh lard or butter. 

Mix the dry ingredients, and cut the lard in with a knife or 
spoon. Add enough cold water (ice water Is best) to make a 
soft dough. Roll thin but do not knead. 

APPLE PIE. 

Line a pie with paste. Pare 5 or 6 good sized sour apples, 

Line a pie tin with paste. Pare 5 or 6 good sized sour ap- 
ples, remove the core and cut in eighths. Place in the lined pie- 
tin, by standing the apple sections on end. Pour over a syrup 
made of 1 c. sugar, % c. boiling water, 1 tsp. flour. Mix the 
flour with the sugar, and blend with the water. Cook until it 
thickens. Dot the top of the pie with 1 tsp. butter. Bake in 
moderate oven until the apples are done. 

4 or 5 sour apples, % tsp. salt, % c. sugar, % tsp. nutmeg, % 
tsp. butter, 1 tsp. lemon juice. 

Line a pie-tin with paste. Pill with the thinly sliced apples. 
Mix the sugar, salt, nutmeg, and lemon juice and sprinkle over 
the top of the apples. Dot the top with butter. Place on top 
crust which has been pricked with a sharp Imife. Bake 40 to 
45 m. in a moderate oven. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

1 e. cooked pumpkin, % c. sugar, 2 tbsp. molasses, ] tbsp. 
butter, % c. milk, 2 eggs, Vs tsp. each, cinnamon and nutmeg, % 
tsp. ginger. 

Heat the pumpkin, sugar, molasses, and butter together. 
Add the spices, then the milk, which has been heated, and blend 



62 A KANSAS KOOK-BCiOK 

in the beaten yolks of the eggs. Lastly add the stifily beaten 
whites and fill the crust. Bake in a moderately hot oven. 

BANANA PIE. 

Line a pie-tin with paste and bake. Cover the bottom and 
sides of the baked pie shell with sliced bananas. Pour over 
this a cream filling made from 1 level tbsp. cornstarch, V2 c. 
sugar, 1 c. milk, yolks of 2 eggs. Mix the cornstarch with the 
sugar and blend with the milk. Boil 10 m., stirring constantly. 
Remove to the back of the stove and add the beaten yolks. Beat 
the whites of the eggs very stiff, and add 2 tbsp. powdered sugar. 
Spread this merangue over the pie. Place in a moderate oven 
until slightly browned. The bananas may be omitted and the 
recipe doubled for plain cream pie. Serve the same day they 
are baked. 

MINCE MEAT. 

1 c. finely chopped cooked meat, 1^^ c. raisins seeded and 
quartered, 1% c. currants, 3 c. chopped apples, 1 c. chopped cran- 
berries, 1^/2 c. brown sugar or 1 c. granulated sugar and % c. 
molasses, 1 tsp. salt, 2 tsp. cinnamon, % tsp. mace, % tsp. 
powdered cloves, grated rind, and juice of 1 lemon, Vi lb. diced 
citron, 2% c. fruit juice or sweetened and spiced vinegar. 

Cook all together until the apples are done. The cranberries 
should be cooked before adding to the mince meat. Keep in a 
cool place. 

Adelaide WH-Ueu, 
i^'a cowlks, 

HeI.EX PtNCOMB. 



FOR KANSAS KOOXB 63 



ICES. 



"Seek roses in December, ice in June.''" 

" The daintiest last, to make the end more sweet." 

GENERAL RULES FOR FREEZING. 

See that the freezer is in proper condition — the can and the 
dasher clean and adjusted — before pouring in the liquid. Crack 
the ice into fine pieces and mix with coarse salt, 3 parts ice to 1 
of salt. Turn the crank slowly for the first few minutes. See 
that the drain uear the top of the tub is kept open, to prevent 
the salt water from getting into the cream. When the mixture 
is thoroughly cooled, turn the crank more rapidly. Do not turn 
ofi" the water. Remove the top, or cross-bar, wipe the lid, re- 
move it and the dashe;- and pack the cream with a spoon, re- 
place the lid, stop up the opening, pack with more ite and salt, 
and let stand in a cool place to ripen, 
stand in a cool place to ripen. 

VANILLA ICE-CREAM. 

1 qt. cream, 1% c. sugar, 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Scald % the cream iu a double boiler, and when it is hot 
dissolve the sugar in it. Beat till cool or luke warm, then add 
the remainder of the cold cream and freeze according to generS.1 
rules. 

PEACH ICE-CREAM. 

1 qt. cream, 1% c. sugar, 1 pt. canned peaches or 1 qt. fresh 
ones. 

Mix as vanilla ice-cream, and freeze to a slush. Add the 
peaches, stirring them in with a long-handled wooden spoon, and 
finish freezing. 

PINEAPPLE ICE-CREAM. 

1 pt. grated pineapple, 2 c. sugar, juice of 1 lemon, 1 pt. 
cream, % pt. milk. 

Add the sugar and the lemon juice to the pineapple and let 
stand for 20 m. or 1 hour, add the milk, blend in the nream, and 
freeze. 



64 A KANSAS KOOK-EOOK 

COCOA ICE-CREAM. 

1% qts. milk, 1% c. sugar, 2 eggs, 5 tbsp. cocoa. 

Scald 1 pt. milk, and with it make a custard with sugar and 
eggs. Moisten the cocoa with cold water, and add 4 tbsp. sugar. 
Cook until the mixture is thick and glossy. Blend this into the 
custard, then blend the entire mixture into the cold milk. More 
sugar may be added ii desired. Freeze. 

Note. — Chocolate may be used instead of cocoa, thus making 
a chocolate cream 

CARAMEL ICE-CREAM. 

1 pt. cream, % c. sugar, 3 eggs, 5 tsp. caramel, 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Beat yolks and sugar together till very light. Beat the 
whites until stiff and fold into this mixture. Heat the cream 
in a double boiler, add the egg mixture, return to the boiler and 
cook until thick, cool, add flavoring, and freeze. 

STRAWBERRY ICE-CREAM. 

1 qt. cream, 2 c. sugar, 6 c. strawberries. 

Heat % the cream and % the sugar together, and the re- 
mainder of the sugar to the crushed berries. Let stand 1 hour, 
strain and work through a fine sieve. Rinse the pulp with % c. 
cold water, add the remainder of the cream to the cream and 
sugar mixture, and freeze this to a slush, then beat in the 
strained fruit and finish freezing. 

PLAIN ICE-CREAM. 

1% qts. cream, 1 qt. milk, 3 c. sugar, whites 4 eggs, ] tsp. 
lemon flavoring and 1 of vanilla. 

Heat the sugar with the milk, cool, add the cream and flavor- 
ing, pour into the freezer, when it begins to freeze around the 
side of the can blend in the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. 

NUT CREAM. 

1 qt. cream, 1 c. sugar, 1 c. English walnuts diced fine, 1 tsp, 
caramel, 2 tsp. vanilla, 4 tbsp. orange juice. 

Heat the sugar with % the cream, add the caramel, cool, mix 
with the rest of the cream and vanilla, pour into the freezer and 
freeze to a slush, add the nuts and orange juice and finish 
freezing. 

CUSTARD ICE-CREAM. 

1 pt. of milk, 1 c. sugar, l^ tsp. salt, 1 egg, 1 pt. cream, 1 
tbsp. flour, 2 tsp. flavoring. 

Heat the milk in a double boiler to the scalding point. 
Blend the sugar, flour and salt together with y^ c. cold milk. 



FOR KANSAS KOOKS 65 

Add this to the scalded milk, and cook 20 m. at the boiling 
temperature. Remove to tlie back of the stove and blend in the 
beaten yolk o£ egg. Strain and blend with the cream and flavor. 
Cool and fold in the stiffly beaten white o£ egg. Freeze. 

FRUIT ICE. 

3 oranges, 3 lemons, 3 bananas, % can apricots, 3 c. sugar, 
3 c. cold water. 

Extract the juice from the oranges and lemons, and strain 
to remove seeds. Press the bananas and apricots through a 
coarse sieve and add to the lemon and orange Juice. Add the 
sugar and let it stand until the sugar dissolves. Add the cold 
water and freeze. 

MILK SHERBET. 

1 qt. milk, 2 c. sugar, juice of 3 lemons. 

Add the sugar to 1 c. of the milk and heat until the sugar 
is dissolved. Let this cool and blend In the remainder of the 
milk. Freeze to a slush, then add the lemon juice and freeze 
stiff. 

1 pt. orange juice, juice of 1 lemon, 1 level tbsp. gelatin, 2 
c. sugar, 1 qt. water. 

Cover the gelatin with y^, the cold water and soak V-i hour. 
Boil the remainder of the water with the sugar. Peel the 
orange and add rind to the boiling syrup. Allow it to boil 3 m., 
add- the gelatin, fruit juice, strain, cool, and freeze. 

LEMON ICE. 

1 qt. water, 1 tbsp. cornstarch, 1% c. sugar, the juice of 4 
lemons. * 

Blend the cornstarch and sugar together, moisten slightly 
with cold water, and add to tlie quart of boiling water, boil 15 
m. Strain and cool, then add lemon juice and freeze. 

PINEAPPLE GRANITE. 

2 c. grated pineapple, juice of 2 lemons (strained), 2 c. 
sugar, 1 qt. water. 

Make syrup of water and sugar. Remove scum and strain. 
Add fruit and freeze according to general rules. 

COFFEE FRAPPE. 

1 pt. good coffee, 1 pt. rich cream, 1 c. sugar. 

Caramelize half the sugar, blend it with the coffee. Beat the 



66 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 

cream until it is stiff, blend it with the remainder of the sugar, 
blend the coffee and cream, and freeze until It will barely pour. 
Serve in glasses. 

Prappes are only partially frozen foods — coffee frappe is the 
typical one. 

GRAPE ICE. 

1 qt. grape juice, 1 pt. water, 1 level tbsp. gelatin, 1% e. 
s\igar. 

Cover the gelatin with 1 c. cold water and soak % hour. 
Boil the remainder of the water with the sugar to make a syrup. 
Add the gelatin and stir until it is thoroughly dissolved. Strain 
and blend with the fruit juice. Cool and freeze. 

Mmiy B. Pritnek, 

ELlZABBTt£ J. AGNEW. 




FOR KANSAS KOOKS gj 



BEVERAGES. 



"Drink down all v/nkindness.'' 

" But while you have it use your hreath. 
There is no drinkiug after death." 

BREAKFAST COCOA. 

6 tsp. cocoa, 6 tsp. sugar, 1% c. water, 3 c. heated milk. 

Mix the cocoa and sugar with % c. cold water. Pour over 
this 1 c. of boiling water and boil 10 m. Add the heated milk. 
Blend and serve hot. 

CHOCOLATE— VIENNA STYLE. 

i tbsp. cocoa or grated chocolate, 4 tbsp. sugar, i tbsp. 
water, 1 qt. milk. 

Cook the cocoa, sugar and water together until thick and 
glassy. If unable to stir constantly place in a double boiler. 
Heat the milk, and add to it the cooked chocolate. Add 1 tsp. 
vanilla essence. Dip and pour the mixture until there is a thick 
foam on top. Serve hot with whipped cream. 

HOME COFFEE. 

1 tbsp. ground cofCee, 1 tsp. white of egg, 1 c. fresh boiling 
water. 

Scald the coffee pot out thoroughly. Mix the ground coffee 
and white of egg. Place in the pot. Pour in the boiling wate;r. 
Shut down the lid, and plug the spout with paper. Boil « m. 
Add M c. cold water just before serving. This recipe makes 1 c. 
strong coffee, and may be varied for the number of cups desired. 

One whole egg will clear 12 c. of coffee. 

COFFEE— COLD WATER PROCESS. 

Use the same proportions as in above recipe. Rinse the 
coffee pot out with cold water. Place the mixed coffee and egg 
in the pot. Pour in the cold water. Shut down the cover, plug 
the spout and let it stand from Vi to 2 hours. Place oi 
the stove and bring just to the boiling point. Add % c. cold 
water, and serve. 



f;S A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 

FILTERED COFFEE. 

Use tlie same proportions as for Home Coffee, but iia\e the 
coflee ground to a pov/der. The egg is omitted. Scald the_coffee 
pot and ))lace it \^here it will keep hot. There should he a 
cloth strainer inside the top of the coffee pot. Place the coffee 
in this, and slowly pour in the boiling water. Close the 
lid and let it steam for 5 m. Remove the strainer containing 
the coffee and serve. 

CAFE AU LAIT. 

Use Altered coffee or pour plain coffee off the grounds into 
a heated coffee pot. To 1 qt. hot coffee add 3 tbsp. whipped 
cream or 4 tbsp. scalded milk just before serving. 

TEA. 

1 tsp. tea, 1 c. freshly boiled water. 

Heat the teapot, which should be of earthenware. Place the 
tea in the teapot and pour the water over it. Remove to the 
back of the stove and let it stand, where it will not boil, from 
1 to 3 m. Serve at once. Tea should not be permitted to stand 
on the leaves, as this extracts an excess of the astringent acid. 

ICED TEA. 

Make an infusion of tea as in the preceding recipe. Pour 
off of the leaves and cool. Serve with chipped ice. A slice of 
lemon may be added to each glass. 

TEA PUNCH. 

6 tsp. tea, 1 q.t. freshly boiled water. 

Prepare and cool as for iced tea. Extract the juice from ii 
large lemons. Add V/'^ c. sugar to 1 qt. of boiling water and, 
cook until the sugar is dissolved. Add the lemon juice to this. 
Strain and cool. Blend this with the cold tea. Add 2 qts. more 
of cold water. Serve iced from a punch bowl. 

FRUIT PUNCH. 

6 lemons, B oranges, 3 or SVa c. sugar, and enough cold water 
to make 1 gallon of liquid. 

Squeeze the juice from the fruit, strain and add the .sugar, 
which has been dissolved by heating with 1 pt. of the water. 
Add the remainder of the water and stir till thoroughly mixed. 
Place a block of ice in a punch bowl, pour in the punch and' 
serve in sherbet glasses. 

Note. — One can pineapple may be used in place of the 
oranges. 



FOR KANSAS KOOKS 69 

RASPBERRY SHERBET. 

To 1 qt. fresh raspberries add 1 pt. cold watev and cook 13 
m. Strain, and add 1 c. sugar to the juice. Cool, and add the 
juice of 2 lemons and enough water to make 2 qts. of punch. 
Serve ice<l, as in the pieceding recipe. 

Note. — Strawberries or blackberries may be used in place of 
raspberries. A few of the fresh whole berries may be added 

just before serving. 

Kate Manly, 99. 






70 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



PLEBIAN TOMATOES (Myrtle Mather). 

1 pt. fresh tomatoes diced, 2 tbsp. miaced onion, 1 level tbsp. 
butter, % tsp. salt, Vs tsp. pepper, 1 level tbsp. browned flour, 

1 c. boiling water. 

Cook the onions in the boiling water until partially trans- 
parent or for about 5 m. Addthe tomatoes and cook 5 m. longer. 
Blend the butter and flour together and moisten with about 2 
tbsp. of the tomato liquid. Stir this into the tomatoes and cook 
3 m. Pour over croutons and serve at once. 

Croutons are made from stale bread cut into V2 in. cubes. 
Dry thoroughly and toast in the oven until light brown. 

ONIONS A LA MODE (Myrtle Mather). 

6 medium sized onions (white ones are best). Cook un- 
covered in boiling salted water until tender, but not until they 
begin to fall to pieces. Drain and remove the inner part and 
chop fine. Season with 3 tsp. butter, % tsp. salt, % tsp. white 
pepper. Add half as much browned bread crumbs as chopped 
onions. Mix thoroughly and fill the cases. Place in a baking dish 
and into each onion put 1 tbsp. rich cream. Bake 5 m. in a hot 
oven. Serve at once. 

BEETS WITH VINEGAR SAUCE (Myrtle Mather). 

Cook young beets until tender. Remove the skin and dice. 
-Marinate with the following dressing: 

1 c. moderately strong vinegar, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. flour, 
% tsp. salt, % tsp. pepper, 1 tsp. sugar. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and seasonings and blend 
thoroughly. Add the vinegar gradually and boil 10 m. This is 
sufliicient for 2 c. diced beets. 

SWEET POTATOES— SOUTHERN STYLE (Elizabeth J. Ag- 
new '00. 

Pare and cook in boiling salted water % dozen good sized 
sweet potatoes. WJien tender split lengthwise, and place flat 
side down on the bottom of a baking dish. Add % c. sugar and 

2 tbsp. butter to % c. hot water and pour over the potatoes. 
Cook in a hot oven until brown and glazed. 



FOR KANSAS KOOKS 71 

DUCHESS POTATOES (Elizabeth J. Agnew, '00). 

4 c. cold mashed potato (Irish), 1 tbsp. butter, 14 tsp. salt, 
% tsp. pepper, yolks of 2 eggs, whites of 2 eggs. 

Steam the cold mashed potato until it is soft, cool to luke- 
warm and add the butter, seasoning and beaten yolks. Beat the 
mixture until very light. Shape in cones and roll in the stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs. Bake on a buttered tin until light brown. 

CHEESE AND MACARONI (Prof. Stoner). 

Wipe the macaroni with a damp cloth and break into inch 
pieces. Place to cook in boiling salted water, using 1 tsp. salt to 
1 qt. of water. Boil until tendej- and drain off the water. Grate 
% c. of cheese for 2 c. cooked macaroni. Place a layer of maca- 
roni on the bottom of a buttered baking dish, cover with a layer 
of grated cheese. Pill the dish in this way, reserving a layer of 
macaroni for the top. Cover the top with 1 tbsp. bread crumbs 
that have been blended with 1 tsp. butter. Place in the oven un- 
til the crumbs brown slightly. Cheese is indigestible if heated 
to a very high temperature, hence this dish should not be placed 
in an extremely hot oven. 

MACARONI AU GRATIN (Prof. Stoner). 

Prepare the macaroni as in previous recipe. Mter draining 
return to the sauce pan and add 2 tsp. each butter and grated 
cheese for each cup of macaroni. Remove to back part of stove 
until the cheese is melted. Serv;e at once. 

BAKED MACARONI (Prof. Stoner). 

Prepare 2 c. macaroni as above. After draininij marinate 
with 

Tomato Sauce. — 1% c. liquor from canned tomatoes, 1 tbsp. 
butter, 1 tbsp. browned flour, % tsp. salt, % tsp. white pepper oi- 
dash of cayenne, 10 drops onion juice, V4, tsp. celery salt. 

Melt the butter, blend in the flour and seasonings. Heat 
the tomato liquor with the onion juice and add it gradually. 
lioil 5 m. 

Marinate the macaroni with this sauce and place in a but- 
tered baking dish. Cover the top with 1 tbsp. crumbs that have 
laeen blended with 1 tsp. butter, and bake until nicely browned 
ove» the top. 

CREAMED CHICKEN ON TOAST (Mary Waugh, '99). 

Cut the toast in fancy shapes and brown slightly. Dice left 
over pieces of chicken as for salad. Marinate with a white 
sauce made from 1 tbsp. flour, 1 tbsp. butter, % tsp. salt, spk. 
white pepper, 1 c. hot milk, 1 egg. Melt the butter until it foams, 



72 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 

blend in the flour and seasonings and add the hot nailk slowly. 
Cook 10 m. Remove to the back of the stove and add the beaten 
egg. Cook 2 m. longer before adding to the chicken. Pout- over 
the toast on a hot platter and garnish, with parsley. 

CREAMED CODFISH (Stella Stewart, '00). 

In the evening pick the codfish into small bits and soak over 
night in cold water. In the morning drain off the water and cook 
the codfish slowly until tender. Use this water to make a white 
sauce, as in the above recipe, except that the egg is not added. 
This is a good breaklast dish with baked potatoes. 

BROWN SAUCE FOR ROAST BEEF (Mary Ely Pritner, '99). 

1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. browned fiour, % tsp. salt, % tsp. white 
peppei', 1 c. water or stock from meat. 

Blend and cook as for white sauce. This may be served with 
broiled steak, or may be used in place of white sauce in mixing 
beef croquettes. Three tsp. Worcestershire sauce and a dash of 
cayenne pepper may be added for brown sauce, Spanish style. 

CORN PUDDING (Mary BIy Pritner, "99). 

1 can corn chopped fine, 1% c. milk, 1 tsp. salt, 2 tsp. sugar, 
3 eggs, beaten separately, 1 tsp. butter. 

Use the butter to oil the baking dish. Add the seasoning 
and beaten yolks to the chopped corn. Add the m.ilk and fold in 
the stiffly beaten whites. Place the baking dish in a milk pan 
about Va full of hot M'ater and bake as you would custard. If 
green corn is used it will take 6 large eai's. 

GINGER BREAD (.Mrs. D. H. Otis, '94). 

1 egg, % c. sugar, % c. molasses, % c. butter, Vi c. sour milk, 
1 level tsp. soda, 1 tsp. salt, 1 tsp. ginger, 2 sc. c. flour, 1 c. 
raisins, 14 walnuts cliopped. 

Beat the eggs slightly and add ^Jie sugar, raolasses, milk, 
and rneJted butter. Mix the dry ingredients together, reserving 
Vi c. flour to dredge the raisins and nuts. Stir the flour and 
seasonings into the liquid and add the raisins ami nuts. Beat 
well, and bake in a loaf cake-tin. 

MARBLE CAKE (Mrs. D. H. Otis, '94). 

Light Part. — 11/4 c. sugar, % c. butter, 1 c. sweet milk, 2''tsp. 
baking powder, 2% c. flour, stiffly beaten whites of 4 eggs. 

Dark Part. — 1 c. molasses, V!: c. butter, % oz. melted choco- 
lalc. % t. sour milk, Yz rsp. soda, 2^/2 c. floui, yolks of 4 eggs,' 
■;': c. raisins stoned and dredged with flour, 1 tsp. each cloves and 
cinnamon. 

Mix the light and dark parts separately according' to the 



J-OK KANSAS KOOKS 73 

rules for cake mixing. Drop by spoonfuls into loaf cake tins so 
as to give the marble eHect when baked. 

DOUGHNUTS (Mary Waugh, '99). 

3 c. flour, 2 rounding tsp. baking powder, 1 c. su^ar, % c. , 
butter, 1 c. sweet milk, 2 eggs, i level tsp nutmeg, % .\ coarsely 
chopped nut meats dredged with flour. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar. Mix the baking powder, 
nutmeg and flour together. Add to the butter and sugar mixture 
and stir until like meal. Blend the milk and beateif eggs to- 
gether and add. Stir in floured nuts. Roll the dough % in. thick, 
cut in fancy shapes and fry in hot fat. Roll in powdered sugar 
while hot. Keep in an earthen jar. 

BROWN BREAD (Mrs. D. H. Otis, ■94). 

% c. molasses, 2 c. sour milk, li^ c. flour, 1 tsp. salt, 1 tsp. 
soda, 2 e. corn-meal. 

Mix the milk and molasses and stir in the dry ingredients, 
which have been blended together. Put into a buttered basin 
• and steam 4 or 5 hours. 

OAT MEAL BREAD (Clara F. Castle, '94). 

2 c. water, 2 c. oat meal, IV2 c. graham flour, \X c. yeast, 1 
tsp. salt, 1 tbsp. molasses, 2 tbsp. butter, enough white flour to 
mix stiff. 

At night make a mush of the salted boiling water and oat 
meal. When cool enough add the yeast. In the morning add the 
molasses, shortening, silted graham flour and enough white flour 
to make stiff enough to knead. When light make into a loaf or 
good sized rolls. Bake in a moderate oven from % to 1 hour. 

GtiLATIN SALAD (Prudence Broquet, '00). 

% box gelatin, soaked in V2 c. cold wa|,er for V2 hr.. luiee of 
^ lemons, 3 oranges diced, 3 bananas diced, 1 c. chopped nuts. 
% c. ijowdered sugar. 

Prepare the fruit and nuts. Dissolve the gelatin in 2 c. boil- 
ing water, add the sugar and co.ol until slightly thickened, then 
pour this over the fruit and nuts, which have been placed in 
layers in a mold or salad dish. Set away to become perfectly 
cold, either in ice box or in a pan of ice and salt. Serve with 
whipped cream or fruit saute. 

FRUIT SAUCE 

% c. butter, 1% c. powdered sugar, white of 1 egg, IVz c. 
fruit juice or syrup from canned fruit. Cream the butter, add 
sugar, beat until very light and creamy. Fold in the stiffly 
beaten white. Blend in the fruit syrup just before serving. 



74 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 



SCHOOL LUNCHEONS. 



"To igork tlie head, temperaiice must be carried into the diet.'' 
— Beeeher. 

Growth of body is dependent upon food, and growth of mind 
is dependent upon body, so that upon the school luncheon 
largely depends the mental development of the child. Pood 
used should be simple and nutritious and should be neatly pre- 
pared and in a manner to best, preserve each food. Sandwiches 
shoiild be made from thinly *sliced bread, and the filling should 
be spread evenly and to the edges. Paraffin paper i.=i inexpensive 
and indispensable in putting up such foods as dry rapid' y, in a:i 
appetizing manner. A basket is better than a tightly closed re- ■ 
ceptacle for carrying a lunch, as flavors of food interchange 
wliere the air does not have free access. Where luncheon is 
carried a number of weeks or months, as during the school year, 
variety is not less important than nutrition and neatness. A 
child will lose appetite when the diet becomes monotonous, and 
appetite is essential to easy digestion. As a cold luncheon every 
day becomes tiresome at best, great care must be exercised in 
this respct. With a little care on the part of the housekeeper 
the luncheon may be varied slightly each day. A dish that 
has very little food value in itself may be of infinite value in 
helping other food to digest. Par too many children carry to 
school an unvarying diet of bread and butter with sauce or meat 
because the matter has never received thought. Below is a lisr: 
of dishes that may be used in preparing a luncheon whore va- 
riety is desired: " 

Creal prepared with fruit or with sugar and cream. Salads 
freshly prepared. Saratoga chips. Milk. Cream cakes with 
cream or fruit filling. Nuts re'moved from shell, blanched or 
salted. Baked apples. Rice with fruit. Rice cream. Cinnamon 
rolls. Tomatoes cooked. Cream of salmon. Gelatin dishes. 
Baked beans. Rice with cocoanut. Tapioca cream. Vienna 
rolls. Celery. Corn with cream. Blanc mange. 

STUFFED FIGS. 

Wash figs and remove stems. Fill center with alr.ionds or 
English walnuts, blanched and chopped fine. To blanch nuts 
pour boiling water over the meats, let stand a few moments till 



FOR KANSAS KOOKS 75 

husk loosens, and rub oft with the lingers. Steam the stuffed 
figs until tender. 

Note. — These make an excellent dessert in the home when 
served with whipped cream. 

SANDWICHES. 

1. — Salmon. Chop fine salmon and cucumber pickle, pour 
over a little melted butter. Dust with salt and pepper and 
spread. 

2. —Olive and cheese. Grate cheese and add an olive chop- 
ped very fine. Cut bread round with biscuit cutter, butter very 
lightly and fill with the mixture. 

3. — 'Cottage cheese with crackers. Spread cottage cheese 
over a square soda cracker and press another cracker over. Cot- 
tage cheese used for sandwiches should not be very soft or the 
crackers will soak. 

4. — Egg. To 1 hard cooked yolk of egg add % tsp. salt, % 
tsp. sugar, % tsp. lemon juice, spk. pepper. Blend and spread 
thinly on bread. 

COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Remove cream from milk and set milk on back of stove 
where it will cook at a low temperature until whey forms. Stir 
occasionally to keep the curd broken up. Drain carefully. To 1 
pt. of curd add % tsp. salt and 2 tbsp. good cream. Mix thorough- 
ly together. A covered jelly glass is convenient for carrying in. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Soak % box gelatin in % cup cold water % hour. Add 2 pts. 
lemon juice and water and if other juicy fruits are used these 
juices may help to make the 2 pts. Grated pineapple, sliced 
bananas and oranges, plums, peaches and apricots, or any 
combination of these that is pleasing to the taste may be added. 
Pour into molds and set in a cool place to harden. English 
walnuts blanched and chopped fine may also be added as a vari- 
ation. 

CANOPEES. 

Press 2 Saratoga flakes together with a filling of jelly, but- 
ter, cheese, salad, or nuts with frosting. Excellent with lunch- 
eon. 

FUDGE. 

2 c. sugar, 2 tbsp. chocolate, % c. milk, % tsp. vanilla. 

Heat milk and sugar and blend in chocolate. Boil ^ m. Re- 
move from fire, beat in vanilla, pour onto buttered plate. Mark 
in 2 in. squares. Mary Waugh. 



76 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 



FAVORITE RECIPES. 



From K. S. A. C. Graduates and Former Students. 



'■•It is the bounty of nature that we lire: but of ■philosophy that we 
Hue well.'''' 

PRUNE SOUFFLE. 

Soak 1 lb. prunes 21 hrs. Cook slowly till solt. Rub tlirougli 
coarse sieve and add 1 c. sugar and 1 tsp. yanilla. Fold into 
the stiffly beaten whites o£ 6 eggs and bake in buttered pan for 
1 hr. Eat while warm with whipped cream. 

BAKED HAM. 

Wash a 12 lb. ham. Cook in water to cover for 3 hrs. Skin 
off outside. Stick a few cloves in the fat, cover with sugar and 
bake slowly 2 hrs. Use hot or cold. 

3/r.s. Nellie Hawyer Kedrde, Profe!<sov of IJomesUi: Sritwe, Bradley 
Polytechnic Institute. 

ENTIRE WHEAT FLOUR BREAD. 

2 c. scalded milk, % c. sugar or % c. molasses, 1 tsp. salt, 1 
cake compressed yeast dissolved in % c. luke-waim water, S^A 
c. entire wheat flour, 2% c. white flour. 

Add sweetening and salt to milk, cool, and when luke-warm. 
add dissolved yeast cake and Hour; knead well and let rise to 
double its bulk. Knead again slightly and shape into loaves. 
Handle quickly to prevent sticking to the board. 

TURKISH SOUP. 

Boil % c. barley in 1 c. water in double boiler until vei-y 
soft. Press through a sieve and add to 1 qt. veal stock and boil 
5 ra. Beat yolks of 2 eggs till very light and mix with them M, 
c. cream. Add this to the stock and barley, let become hot but 
not boil. Add salt and pepper to taste and serve hot. 

MUFFINS. 

2 c. graham flour, 1 tsp. salt, 2 tsp. sugar, 2 eggs beaten 



FOR KANSAS KOOKS 77 

separ?J,ely, 1 c. milk, 2 tbsp. meltecl butter, 4 lecel tsp. baking 
powder. 

Mix dry ingredients, add milli; and jolks, then butter, then 
v.'hites of eggs. Bake In liot oven. 

Miss 2Iaude Gardiner, Professor of Domestic Erono ny, OHahoina 
Agricultural College. 

MEXICAN EGGS. 



eggs, 1 level tbsp. sifted paprika, 1 level tbsp. salt. 

Cook the first 3 ingredients in a double boiler or water bath 
of chafing dish % hr. Beat or stir till tomatoes are finely di 
vided. Beat the eggs with paprika and salt till well mixed but 
not frothy. Slowly add the hot tomato. Return the mixture to 
the double boiler or chafing dish and again heat, stirring con- 
stantly till the mixture thickens. Serve on warm crackers. 

Miss Ahhy L. Marlait, Teacher of Domestic Science, Manual Training 
School, Providence, R. I. 



GINGER SNAPS. 

1 c. lard, 1 c. molasses, 1 rounding tbsp. soda, 1 rounding 
tbsp. ginger, % tsp. salt, flour for stiff dough. 

Beat the lard and molasses till light and foamy. Add thp, 
ginger and salt with a little of the flour. Dissolve the soda in 
2 tbsp. hot water, add to the batter, then add remainder of Hour. 
Roll -^ery thin, cut and bake in moderate oven. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

1 c. corn meal, 2 c. graham flour, 1 tsp. soda, 1 tsp. salt, 1 c. 
molasses, 1 c. sweet cream, 1 c. butter milk, 2 c. flour. 

Mix com meal, graham flour, and salt, add raolai?ses. then 
cream and butter milk and last the soda, dissolve in sweet milk. 
Steam 3 hrS., then put into hot oven in m. to dry off. 

FLAKE CAKE. 

Vi c. sugar, % c. butter, % c. molasses, 2 c. flour, Va c- sour 
milk.'l hp. tsp. soda, 2 tsp. spices, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, 
yolks 3 eggs, whites 2 eggs. 

Cream butter and sugar, add molasses and yolks of eggs 
beaten light. Then add. a little of the flour mixed with the 
spices. Alternate flour and sour milk until all are asod. Then 
put in soda dissolved in a little hot water. Beat well and add 



A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 



the well beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in 2 layers anu put 
together with boiled icing, using the remaining white of egg. 

Miss Laura G. Bay, Director Domestic Arts Department, Stout 
Manual Training School, Menominee, Wi.i. 



FRUIT CAKE. 

V2 Ih. sugar, % lb. butter, V2 lb. flour, 1/2 tsp. soda, 6 eggs, % 
c. warm water, 1% lbs. cocoanut, V2 lb. citron, 2 lbs. raisins seed- 
ed, '% lb. figs, 1^ tsp. salt, 1 lb. blanched almonds, 1 orange 
chopped fine, 1 tsp. cloves, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 1 tsp. nutmeg, 1 tsp. 
mace. 

Beat sugar and butter to a cream, add beaten yolks of eggs,„ 
then the fruit, spices and nuts. Add the flour mixed with the 
soda, lastly the whites of eggs beaten stift. This makes a very 
stifl! dough, enough for a large sized cake. 

Miss Bertha J. Spohr, Assistant in Domestic Science, Bradley Poly- 
technic, Peoria, III 



SPONGE DROPS. 

5 eggs beaten separately, Ic. powdered sugar, 1 c. sifted 
pastry flour, % c. finely chopped nuts, 1 tsp. almond flavoring, % 
tsp. salt. 

Beat yolks with sugar, salt, flavoring and nuts. Cut in 
Vi'liites and sift on flour by degrees. Put through pastry bag on to 
baking sheet and bake, but not brown, in moderate oven. Fasten 
these together with whipped cream, sprinkle with powdered 
sugar and serve with cocoa. 

Miss Qrace J. Stokes, Professor Domedic Economy. Berea College, 
Berea, Kentucky. * 



BEST GINGER DROPS. 

% c. sugar, 1 c. molasses, V2 c. butter, 2% c. flour, 1 c. water, 
2 eggs, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 1 tsp. ginger, 1 tsp. cloves, ] tsp. soda. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and spice, blend in the 
molasses. Put the tsp. of soda into the c. of boiling water, and 
add this to the other mixture. Add the flour, beat the eggs to 
a cream and add them last. Bake in gem-tins or in a loaf. This 
may be served with a pudding sauce for dessert. 

3Iiss Clara F. Castle. 



FOR KANSAS KOOKS 79 

NUT SALAD. 

2 lbs. English walnuts (before the shell is removed), 4 
medium ^ized bunches of celery, 1 u. mayonnaise dvessin?, 1 c. 
rich sweet cream. 

Cut the nut kernels with a knife into pieces about the size of 
peas. Cut the celery into flue bits, whip the cream and blend 
it with the mayonnaise dressing. Chill all of the ingredients. 
Just before serving juix the nuts and celery, and marinate with 
the dressing. This quantity will serve 15 people. 

Mrs. Lydia G. WUlard. 



POTATO SALAD. 

Cut potatoijs into slices or %, in. cubes. Add 1 tsp. of minced 
onion or 4 or 5 drops of onion juice for each c. of potatoes. Chill 
find marinate with tHe following dressing; 

Dressing. — 1 tsp. salt, % tsp. mustard, spk. Chilli pepper, 1 
tsp. sugar, 1 egg, % c. milk, 1 tsp. butter, % c. vinegar. 

Make a sauce of the vinegar and seasonings. Heat tiie milk 
ill a double boiler, add the beaten egg to the milk, and blend 
into the hot vinegar sauce. Stir until it is slightly thickened. 
Add the butter and strain. Chill and serve. 

Mi^s Anna L. Streeter. 



CREAM OF OYSTER SOUP. 

1 pt. of oysters, 1 qt. milk, 1 c. hot water, 1 tbsp. butter, 
1 tsp. salt, Ys tsp. white pepper, 1 tbsp. flour. 

Melt tho butter, to it add the flour and seasonings, add the 
hot water a little at a time, and boil 10 m. Blend this into the 
milk, which has been heated in a double boiler. Clarify the 
liquor from the oysters, and add to the milk. Cook the oysters 
in an omelet pan until the edges curl. Place the oysters into 
heated individual serving dishes, pour over them the hot Jiquid 
and serve at once with crisp crackers, or sippets. 

Myrtle Mather. 



ENGLISH WALNUT SPONGE CAKE. 

3 large eggs, % c. powdered sugar, spk. salt, % tsp. lemon 
juice, 14 ts^ lemon extract, % c. pastry flour, % c. English wal- 
nuts diced fine, 16 whole meats for top. 

Separate whites and yolks. Beat yolks to a croam and 
whites until stiff. Blend the dry ingredients and nuts together, 
and blend with yolk and lemon juice and extract. Fold in the 



80 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 

whites. Pour batter into cake tin and bake in moderate oven. 
Ice with boiled icing and decorate with nuts. Serve the day it 
is baked. ' 

Marii Bly Pritver, Ansistunt in JJomestu- Science, Kansas Slate 
Agricultural College. 



CHICKEN SALAD WITH NUTS. 

Remove all skin, bone, Tat, and gristle from cooked chicken. 
Cut meat into small dice. For 4 c. meat use 2 c. finely diced nuts 
— .almonds, English walnuts, pecans, Brazil nuts, any one or a 
mixture of all may be used. Blend chicken and nuts, add ^/^ tsp'. 
celery salt, 1% level tsp. salt, dash cayenne pepper, 2 tbsp. lemon 
.uiice and allow to stand for 20 m. to 2 hrs. Mix with a 
dressing made as follows: 

Dressing. — Yolks of 3 eggs, 5 tbsp. vinegar, 1 tsp. mustard, %- 
tsp. white pepper, % tsp. celery salt, 1 level tsp. salt, 1 tbsp. 
butter. 

Heat seasonings in the vinegar, blend in the beaten yolks, 
cook in double boiler until thick, strain, add butter and chill. 
This makes a thick dressing. Thin before using, with whipped 
cream. 

Note. — If chicken has been cooked In salted water, add only 
i/i tsp. salt, to the chicken and nut mixture. 

Elizabetk J. Agnew, Assistant in Domestic Science, Kansas Slate 
Agricultural College. 



SALMON LOAF. 

1 can salmon (cut fme), 3 eggs beaten to a cream, 1 c. bread 
crumbs, 4 tbsp. melted butter, 4 tbsp. milk, 1 tsp. salt, % tsp. 
pepper. 

Mix fish aud crumbs, mix eggs, milk and seasonings, blend 
ail and add the butter. Steam in buttered molds li4 hrs. Serve 
with the following sauce: 

Sauce. — 1 c. milk, 1 tbsp. flour, 1 tbsp. butter, liquor of sal- 
mon, 1 tsp. of ketchup, 1 egg slightly beaten and parsley added 
last. 

Blend flour and butter, stir into hot milk, cook far 10 m., stir 
in the egg, allow to cook for 1 m. Turn the loaf out of the mold, 
pour sauce over and around it, and serve. 

Mrs. £). II. Otis. 



FOR KANSAS KOOK3 81 

GINGER SNAPS. 

1 c. butter, 1 c. sugar, 1 c. molasses, 1/3 c. vinegar, 1 egg, 1 
tbsp. ginger, 1 tsp. salt, 1 tsp. soda. 

Cream butter and sugar, add the egg well beaten, the salt 
and ginger. Dissolve soda In vinegar, add it to the molasses, 
stir into butter and sugar and beat well. Flour enough to roll 
out. Roll thin and bake in a hot oven. 

May Secrest, Assistant in lJi>mestic Art. K. S. A. C. 



MINCE MEAT. 

1 beef heart cooked with 1 lb. of .suet, 4 lbs. meat, 10 lbs. 
of apples chopped fine, 1 tsp. salt, pepper, 3 pts. boiled cider or 
molasses and vinegar, 5 tsp. cloves, 10 tsp. cassia, 1 lb. chopped 
raisins, 1 lb. currants, % lb. of citron chopped fine. 

Wash, quarter and chop fine the apples without paring. Boil 
the apples in the liquid in which the meat was cooked. When 
they are thoroughly cooked, blend in the chopped meat and sea- 
sonings. Oook this all together. Put away in covered stone jars„ 
When making into pies add raisins and nutmeg to eadh pie. 

Adelaide Francin Wilder, B. S. , 'tis, M. S. ^00. 



82 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 



DEFINITIONS. 



OMELET PAN is a sheet iron pan differing from a skillet in 
that it has a long handle, sloping sides and is lighter Iji weight. 

SIPPETS are pieces of bread cut V- in. wide, Vi; in. thick, and 
4 in. long, dried in the oven and toasted. 

CROUTONS are % in. cubes of bread dried and toasted in 
the oven. 

MARINATE is to lift diced meat or vegetables with two 
forks, thus permitting a sauce or dressing to permeate all parts. 

BLEND is to stir with the bowl of the spoon on the bottom 
of the dish. 

BREAD FLOUR is made from hard winter wheat and con- 
tains much gluten, it has a granular feel .when rubbed between 
the fingers. 

PASTRY FLOUR is especially prepared for pies, cakes, 
baking powder mixtures, etc. It has less gluten and has a soft, 
velvety feel when rubbed between the fingers. 

CARAMELIZE is to brown. Caramelized sugar is melted by 
itself until brown. Beef stock may be cooked down until it be- 
comes a. thick, brown mass and is added to soups as ca.ramel 
flavoring. 

TRUSS is to bend down and fasten with a small rod or 
skewer the limbs and wings of a dressed fowl. 

SKEWER is the metal or wooden rod used for trussing 
fov.'ls or skewering meat. To skewer meat is to shape it for 
baking. 

SAUTE is to brown in a little hot fat, commonly callfsd fry- 
ing. 

FRYING is to cook in a bath of smoking hot fat. 

ROUNDING SPOONFUL is as much above the level of the 
£lioon as the depth of the bowl. 

LEVEL SPOONFUL is even with the top of the spoon. 



FOR KANSAS KOOKS 83 



RULES FOR MEASURING. 



Flour, sugar, rice, corustarch, meals of any kind, butter, 
drippings, lard, baking powder, currants, raisins and the nut 
seasonings and shortenings, are measured by the roi-nding 
spoonful, whether tablespoon or teaspoon. 

Salt, pepper, spices, seasonings of any kind, soda and cfeam 
ot tartar are measured level. 

A cupful means a level measure. Fractions of cupfuls are 
measured level. A scant cup is filled to within yi in. of the 
top of the cup; % spoonful is lengthwise through the spoon 
through the center; V4 is the V2 divided in cross section through 
the center. 

A spoonful of melted butter is measured after melting. A 
spoonful of butter melted is measured before melting. 

A speck is all that remains on the tip of the spoon, holding 
the spoon in a vertical position. 



84 A KANSAS KOOK-BOOK 



TABLE OF ABBREVIATIONS. 



tbsp. — tablespoon. 

tsp. — teaspoon. 

ssp. — f-alt spoon. 

spk. — speck. 

hp. — heaping. 

m. — minute. 

111-. — hour. 

pt. — pint. 

qt. — quart. 

oz. — ounce. 

lb. — pound. 

c. — cup. 

sc. — scant cup. 



TABLE OF EQUIVALENTS. 



3 tsp.r=l tbsp. 

4 tbsp.=i4 c.^Vi gill. 
2 gillg=l c. 

2 c.=l pint. 

2 pt.=l qt. 

4 qt.:=l gallon. 

2 gal.=l pk. 

4 c. ol flour=l lb. 

2 c. solid butter=:l lb. 

2 c. granulated sugar=l lb. 

3 c. corn-meal=:l lb. 
2 c. solid meat:=l lb. 
1 tbsp. liquid:=% oz. 

1 hp. tbsp. butter=:2 oz. 
1 hp. tbsp. flour=l oz. 
1 hp. tbsp. sugar=l oz. 

Boston hidiool Kitchen Text Book. — ,l//-,s. 1). A. Lincoln, 



-i-M^. 




^a^Bu 



!• 



,_y-/ -'M'TJu, ct^-i-*^ JT ^ ^A-'ut.d^ -^j^nAj xru-^ -*jr , 

CXwt ^tfl«. UJI-/^ trtX«JOl>< .>lA \yvKi.-y^ -V-^l-Wl^ t* 



The editors ivish to acknowledge lielpful, suggestions received from 
the lectures of leading Domestic Ncimce teachers, in co')npiling general 
rules. 

The recipes are edited from lectures and lessons given in class u-ork, 
by Prof. Minnie A. Stoner. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

Cereals 19 

Vegetables'. ; : 21 

Eggs 26 

Meats 29 

Fish and Oysters 33 

Soups .v 38 

Salads 41 

Yeast Breads : 44 

Baking Powder Mixtures 47 

Cakes 51 

Desserts 59 

Ices 63 

Beverages 67 

Miscellaneous 70 

School Luncheons 74 

Favorite Recipes 76 

Definitions 82 

Rules for Measuring ". 83 

Table of Abbreviations 84 

Table of Equivalents 84 



