L!LLA FRICH, A. B. 




INDUSTRIAL BOOK & EQUIPMENT CO. 




Gopyiight]^°_ 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSm 



COOKING 



BOOK TWO 



By LILLA P. FRICH, A. B., Supervisor of Domestic Science, Minneapolis Public Schools 

Author of "BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE" 

"COOKING BOOK ONE" 



In Collaboration with 
MUNCIE NORMAL INSTITUTE 




n^fiE/rcuuma\sYSTEM\ 



PUBLISHED AND FURNISHED 
BY 



Industrial Book CS, Equipment Co. 

Indianapolis, Indiana 



^i"'^ 

^■^ 



COPyRIOHTF.n 
MUNCIE NORMAL INSTITUTK 



^CI.A416650 

DEC I 1915 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



INTRODUCTORY STATEMENT. 
Preface 



Suggestions to Teachers. 



FOOD PRESERVATION— Canning Vegetables. 

Discussion of Tiikoky 10 

Working Directions 11-13 

Noi'EBooK Work 12 



9-18 

Home Recipes ] 4 

Review Questions 1 "i 

Suggestions for Home Application. 10-18 



FOOD PRESERVATION— Canning Fruits 

Discussion of Tiikoky 20 

Working Directions 21-23 

Notebook Work 22 

PROTEINS— Composition and Cooking of Eggs. 

Discussion of Theory 28 

Working Directions 29-31 

Notebook Work 30 



19-26 

Home Recipes 2 1 

Review Questions 25 

Suggestions for Home Application.. 26 



, 27-34 

Home Recipes 32 

Review Questions 33 

Suggestions for Home Application . . 34 



PROTEINS— Use of Eggs in Desserts 

Discussion of Theory 36 

Working Directions 37-3f> 

Notebook Work 38 



, 35-42 

Home Recipes 4ii 

Review Questions 41 

Suggestions for Ho.me Application.. 42 



PROTEINS— Eggs in Desserts (continued) 

Discussion of Theory 44 

Working Directions 45-47 

Notebook Work 46 

PROTEINS— Eggs Used in Sponge Cake 

Discussion of Theory 52 

Working Directions 53-55 

Notebook Work 54 



43-50 

Home Recipes 48 

Review Questions 49 

Suggestions for Home Application . . 50 

51-58 

Home Recipes 56 

Review Questions 57 

Suggestions for Home Application . . 58 



PROTEINS— Milk 

Discussion of Theory 60 

Working Directions 61-63 

Notebook Work 62 



59-68 

Home Recipes 64 

Review Questions 65 

Suggestions for Home Application . 66-68 



PROTEINS— Cheese Dishes 60-76 

Discussion of Theory 70 Home Recipes 74 

Working Directions 71-73 Review Questions 75 

Notebook Work 72 Suggestions for Home Application . . 76 



PROTEINS— Cream Desserts 

Discussion of Theory 78 

Working Directions 79-81 

Notebook Work 80 



77-84 

Home Recipes 82 

Review Questions 83 

Suggestions for Home Application . . 84 



PROTEINS— Meat— Preparation of Tender Cuts 85-92 

Discussion of Theory , . 86 Home Recipes 90 

Working Directions 87-89 • • -Review Questions 91 

Notebook Work 88 Si-ggestions for Home Appication . . 92 



TABLE OF CONTENTS— Continued 

PROTEINS— Meat— Preparation of Tough Cuts 93-100 

Discussion of Tiieoky 94 Home Hecipes 98 

Working Directions 95-97 Review Questions 99 

Notebook Work 96 Suggestions for Home Application . . 100 

PROTEINS— Meat— Tough Cuts (Continued) 101-108 

Discussion of Theory 102 Home Recipes 106 

Working Directions 103-105 Review Questions 107 

Notebook Work 104 Suggestions for Home Application . . 108 

PROTEINS— Meat— Preparation of Veal 109-116 

Discussion of Theory 110 Home Recipes 114 

Working Directions 111-113 Review Questions 115 

Notebook Work 112 Suggestions fob Home Application . . 116 

PROTEINS— Preparation of Fish 117-124 

Discussion of Theory 118 Home Recipes 122 

Working Directions 119-121 Review Questions 123 

Notebook Work 120 Suggestions for Home Application . . 124 

PROTEINS— Shell Fish— Oysters 125-132 

Discussion of Theory 126 Home Recipes 130 

Working Directions 127-129 Review Questions 131 

Notebook Work 128 Suggestions for Home Application . . 132 

PROTEINS— Gelatine Desserts 133-140 

Discussion of Theory 134 Home Recipes 138 

Working Directions 135-137 Review Questions 139 

Notebook Work 136 Suggestions for Home Application . . 140 

PROTEINS— Gelatine Desserts (Continued) 141-148 

Discussion of Theory 142 Home Recipes 146 

Working Directions 143-145 Review Questions 147 

Notebook Work 144 Suggestions for Home Application . . 148 

FATS— Preparation of Bacon 149-156 

Discussion of Theory 150 Home Recipes 154 

Working Directions 151-153 Review Questions 155 

Notebook Work 152 Suggestions for Home Application . . 156 

FATS— Use of Fats in Frying 1 57-164 

Discussion of Theory 158 Home Recipes 162 

Working Directions 159-161 Review Questions 163 

Notebook Work 160 Suggestions for Home Application . . 164 

FATS— Use of Fats in Frying (Continued) 165-172 

Discussion of Theory 166 Home Recipes 170 

Working Directions 167-169 Review Questions 171 

Notebook Work 168 Suggestions for Home Application . . 172 

FATS— Preparation of Doughnuts 1 73-180 

Discussion of Theory 174 Home Recipes 178 

Working Directions 175-177 Review Questions 179 

Notebook Work 176 Suggestions foe Home Application. . 180 

STEAMED MIXTURES— Preparation of Brown Bread 181 -188 

Discussion of Theory 182 Home Recipes 186 

Working Directions 183-185 Review Questions 187 

Notebook Work 184 Suggestions for Home Application . . 188 

BREAD MAKING— Preparation of White Bread 189-196 

Discussion of Theory 190 Home Recipes 194 

Working Directions 191-193 Review Questions 195 

Notebook Work 192 Suggestions for Home Application . . 196 



TABLE OF CONTENTS— Concluded. 

CAKE MAKING — Preparation of Layer Cake 197-204 

Discussion of Theory 198 Home Recipes 202 

WoRKixG DiEECTioxs 199-201 Review Questions 203 

Notebook Work 200 Suggestions for Home Application . .204 

CAKE MAKING— Preparation of White Cake 205-212 

Discussion of Theory 206 Home Recipes 210 

Working Directions 207-209 Review Questions 211 

Notebook Work 208 Suggestions fob Home Application. .212 

COOKIES— Drop Nut Cookies 213-220 

Discussion of Theory 214 Home Recipes 218 

Working Directions 215-217 Review Questions 219 

Notebook Work 210 Suggestions for Home Application. .220 

COOKIES AND BEVERAGES— Rolled Cookies and. Coffee 221-228 

Discussion of Theory 222 Home Recipes 226 

Working Directions 223-225 Review Questions 227 

Notebook Work 224 Suggestions for Home Application. .228 

PASTRY MAKING— Two Crust Pie 229-236 

Discussion of Theory' 230 Home Recipes 234 

Working Directions 231-233 Review Questions 235 

Notebook Work 232 Suggestions for Home Application . . 236 

POULTRY — Preparation of Suitable Combinations 237-244 

Discussion of Theory 238 Home Recipes 242 

Working Directions 239-241 Review Questions 243 

Notebook Work 240 Suggestions for Home Application . . 244 

LEGUMES— Pea Timbales 245-252 

Discussion of Theory 246 Home Recipes 250 

Working Directions 247-249 Review Questions 251 

Notebook Work 248 Suggestions for Home Application. .252 

INVALID COOKERY— Preparation of Invalia Dishes 253-260 

Disci'ssioN of Theory 254 Home Recipes 258 

Working Directions 255-257 Review Questions 259 

Notebook Work 256 Suggestions fob Home Application . . 260 

ACID AND SALT SUPPLYING FOODS— Salads 261-270 

Discussion of Theory 2(i2 Home Recipes 266 

Working Directions 263-205 Review Questions 267 

Notebook Work 264 Suggestions for Home Application208-27O 



To all those who, through heart interest or life labor, are engaged in 
the effort toward orderly instruction in hand labor, based upon 
sound psychology and rooted in a social necessity — this book is 
respectfully dedicated. 



In the whole history of human development and adjustment, no condition 
has ever before existed in which so many men and women have attempted 
authorship. 

Likewise, the need of authorship, compilation, definite and practical 
guidance in the highly specialized processes which everywhere touch and 
articulate with human life was never so great. A militant and world-wide 
impulse is moving toward a democracy, and a necessity for human efficiency 
which brooks no hindrance and is impatient of delay. 

Considerate thought and definite aim are the hand-maids of all action 
among individuals, as w^ell as states. Every life must have its preamble, as 
well as its constitution and by-laws to be observed in carrying out its use 
and purpose. Human society, in all its social, moral and economic relations, 
is being considered more and more as an indissoluble union of indestructible 
elements. A high estimate is noAV placed upon the value of the individual. He 
is becoming more and more an integral factor. He is no longer pattern- 
minded, nor tribal in thought or habit. Patriotism for his race and fellows is 
not less, because he places a higher value on self-respect and makes judgment 
and conscience his guide and chief, instead of a painted warrior or a sceptered 
king. 

That the chief of all agencies provided for the preparation of future citi- 
zens and a homogeneous society — the American Free School — shall not fail of 
its mission, the life necessities and life labors, as well as the highest and 
happiest use of each life, must become more and more its specific concern. 

This is manifested through the introduction of hand labor and Vocational 
instruction to become more and more the basis of educational and teaching 
processes, and reaches its highest ideal in the well-defined desire for Vocational 
guidance. 

The publications of the Muncie Normal Institute are the result of col- 
laboration, experiment, elimination and practical trial. They are the fruit of 
compilation, classification, correlation and standardization, as well as inspired 
authorship. Their justification is found in their popularity and useful help 
to all who are doing their share in the schools, and in the vast scheme of 
the Industrial Educational movement, and assisting to make a school solution 
for a problem which is of sudden origin, but of tremendous force and in- 
calculable importance. 




President Muiicie Normal Inst:tutc 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



PREFACE. 



This text is designed with the idea of pursuing systematically and 
sequentially the work begun in Book One : the underlying principle of setting 
forth definite and specific directions to be placed in the hands of each student 
is continued throughout all the regular type lessons of the book. The all 
important factor of associating kindred recipes and suggestions for home 
application with each lesson is carefully developed. 

Students who have satisfactorily completed the work of Book One should 
have no difficulty in following the work presented in this text. The elemen- 
tary processes and fundamental principles, which are so minutely illustrated 
in Book One, are re-employed and applied in the pursuit of more elaborate 
and advanced Avork. These processes will not be shown by such detailed 
illustrations except by way of review ; all new processes not previously 
presented will be found fully illustrated. 

The general scheme of presenting and working out the class lesson is 
identical with the plan of Book One, however it will be found that in consid- 
eration of the more advanced age, experience and ability of the students, wider 
opportunity is offered for the personality of each student to assert itself in 
the woi'k. The exercise of initiative should be encouraged, individual opinions 
developed, and practical application of the principles of the class lesson should 
be made to outside Avork. 

The Note Book Work is continued with the belief that considerable 
emphasis should be placed upon the economic side of the work. It is not 
sufficient that a girl should simply be able to follow a recipe and produce an 
attractive dish ; she should appreciate the importance, not only of knowing its 
food value and its proper place in a menu, but she should also concern herself 
with the cost of the food materials, the time and effort required in the 
preparation, and, in fact, she should i-ecognize every element Avhich a modern 
business man considers in producing results most economically. 

The subjete of Domestic Science is so broad, and the home conditions are 
so varied, that it would be impossible to present detailed working directions 
for home application. It is therefore deemed best to offer some general 
suggestions along the trend of tliought ai'oused ])y the class lesson, and leave 
it to the option of the teaeliei' to employ tliese ideas, and by means of hei- 
own initiative outline specific woi-k suited to the needs of her particular class, 
and in such harmony with local interests as to produce a lively co-operation 
between hei' school and the vai'ious factors of the counnunity. 

Edited ])y ^\. 0. BURTON. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



SUGGESTION TO TEACHERS. 

In the preparation of this text, just as in Book One, every effort has been 
made to relieve the teacher of clerical work, and such other routine duties 
as may be entrusted to the students. This plan not only conserves the 
teacher's time and energy for the more important function of studying the 
personality and individual needs of each student, but it also tends to place 
the students upon their own resources, and thus develops their powers of 
research and self-reliance. 

All working directions will be found presented in terms which should be 
perfectly understandable to the average student, and by requiring each student 
to rely upon her own interpretation of the printed page the full educational 
value of the work can be realized. 

A Teachers' Guide, containing market orders, housekeepers' directions, 
references to bulletins, etc., and other general information applying to each 
lesson has been prepared. It is not the thought that this manual is to curtail 
the initiative of the teacher, nor to insinuate that she lacks the training and 
ability to furnish this information to her students. The purpose is simply 
to set forth in compact form some ideas, references and other data so as to 
relieve the teacher as much as possible. 

The Housekeepers' Directions are placed on perforated pages so they 
may be torn out and given to the girls who are to perform those duties. 
These are general directions which may easily be varied to suit the specific 
needs of different kitchens. They will be found very helpful in marketing 
because of the lists of food materials which have been carefully estimated 
for each lesson. The quantity of such materials may readily be varied to 
suit the number of pupils in the class. 

This Manual is furnished without charge to all teachers whose classes are 
using this Text. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 9 

FOOD PRESERVATION. 

CANNING VEGETABLES. 

In this lesson you will find directions for canning, calling for the simplest 
apparatus — using any approved jar that will be air tight after sealing. 
There are any number of canning jars, kettles and devices offered on the 
market that may be used at home if desired. Tomatoes canned according 
to directions given in this lesson have been kept for years, in hundreds of 
cooking schools throughout the country. 



School Recipe. 

MATERIALS: 2 Large Tomatoes 
or 
3 or 4 Small Tomatoes. 

1 Pint Water (which has been Boiled and Cooled.) 
14 Teaspoonful Salt. 





"''*i*Bis*...:...>'>«-*^; 





CANNING TOMATOES. 

Our Lesson today is on food preservation. 
The cut shows an illustration of Canned Tomatoes. 

Canning is considered the best method of pre- 
serving food materials. 

The secret of successful canning is, first, the 
complete sterilization of all of the materials and 
utensils. To sterilize means to destroy all spores 
or germs which may cause deca^^ 

Canned materials must be kept in sterilized, 
air-tight jars. 



10 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

FOOD PRESERVATION. 

To preserve means to save from decay by the use of some preservative 
agent. Certain bacteria cause the decay of foods. Therefore, foods may -be 
preserved by subjecting them to such treatment as will kill the germs or cheek 
their growth and make them inactive. We know that moderate heat, food and 
moisture are favorable conditions for the growth of germs; opposite con- 
ditions will hinder their growth. 

The most important method of preserving fruit: 

1. COLD STORAGE. Freezing checks the growth of bacteria as long as 
they are in a frozen condition. Meat and fish may be kept indefinitely while 
frozen. They should not be allowed to thaw out until shortly before using, 
as they are more susceptible to the action of bacteria than if they had not 
been frozen. Eggs and fruit may be kept several months by cold storage 
in dry air just above the freezing point, 32 degrees Fahrenheit. Vegetables 
are kept in cold storage. 

2. DRYING. Bacteria require moisture, so food is dried in order to 
preserve it. Dried fruits contain slightly more moisture than dried meats or 
fish, but this small amount remains safe by the antiseptic (germ-preventing 
and killing) properties of the acids in the fruits; the natural sugar found in 
fruits also assists in preserving them. 

3. SALTING. Salt has the tendency to absorb moisture from the bac- 
teria so they cannot thrive in food that is well salted. Salt does not kill 
bacteria, but prevents their growth. 

4. PRESERVING WITH SUGAR. Sugar, like salt, has a tendency to 
absorb moisture from the bacteria, thus preventing their growth. Bacteria 
cannot grow in a thick syrup, though moulds may grow on top. Example : 
Jams, marmalades, jellies, etc. 

5. SMOKING. Meats and fish are usually salted, then smoked. (The 
products of combustion are antiseptic.) These antiseptics do not penetrate 
the flesh, but remain on the outside, so disease germs on the inside are not 
killed. It is. therefore, unsafe to eat uncooked meat in anv form. 

6. PICKLING. Few kinds of bacteria can grow m acids, so vinegar is 
used for pickling. 

7. CHEMICAL. TREATMENT. Chemical food preservatives are often 
used in canning factories and by dealers in milk, meat and other foods. It 
has been found that many of these antiseptics are harmful and laws have 
been passed to restrict their use. 

8. CANNING. Canning is the process of preserving sterilized foods 
in sterilized, air-tight jars. In this method the sterilizing is done by means of 
heat. The temperature of l)oiling water, sometimes even lower temperature, 
kills the bacteria. Canning is considered the best method of preserving food. 



COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 



11 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL ODD 
NUMBERED PUPILS. 

NOTE: In today's Lesson each girl will peel a tomato. You will pre- 
pare the water and salt while your partner sterilizes the jar and its cover. 
See recipe on front page. 

Measure 2 cups of water into your saucepan. Place it over the fire. Add 
1/^ teaspoonful salt. This water must be kept perfectly clean, as it is to be 
used in canning the tomato. 




FIGURE 1. 




Wash the tomato. Drop it into a pan of boil- 
ing water for just a second or two ; take it out of 
the water with the vegetable knife ; pierce the 
skin and you will find that you can easily peel of£ 
the skin. See FIGURE 1. 

Place your peeled tomato into the pint jar 
which your partner has sterilized. See FIGURE 2. 
Your partner will place her tomato in the same 
jar. Cover the tomatoes in the jar to overflow- 
ing with the salted water which has been boiling 
and cooled slightly. The water should be poured 
gradually into the jar containing the tomatoes 
until it is filled to overflowing. 



FIGURE 2. 

Adjust the cover on the jar, but do not screw it down, as the steam must 
have an outlet whih' the tomatoes are cooking. 



You arc to wash the dishes today according to directions already learned. 



12 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

NOTE BOOK WORK. 

Cost of preparing one pint of Canned Tomatoes: 

Tomatoes cts. 

1 Glass can with rubber and lid cts. 

The price of the can need hardly be counted, because of the fact that if 
properly handled the can can be used over and over almost indefinitely. The 
mere cost of the tomatoes is practically the only expense of preparing canned 
tomatoes. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CANNING TOMATOES. 

Select medium sized round tomatoes. Put them into a colander or wire 
basket; dip them into boiling w^ater for just a moment. Remove the skin, 
which you will llnd will come off very easily after having been scalded. Care- 
fully sterilize the jar, rubber ring and lid, according to General Directions. 
Adjust the rubber ring. To each quart jar allow one teaspoonful of salt. 
Place the tomatoes in the jar ; fill to overflowing with the salted water, which 
has been boiled and slightly cooled. If convenient, tomato juice may be used, 
thus helping to retain the natural flavor and color of the tomatoes. Tomatoes 
are sometimes cut in pieces so as to fill the jars completely without adding 
any liquid. Adjust the cover, but do not screw it on, as the steam must have 
an outlet during the cooking. 

Place the jars into a large dishpan or wash boiler, the bottom of which 
should be covered with several thicknesses of cloth or paper or some sort of 
rack. This will prevent the jar from coming into such close contact with the 
heat from the bottom of the vessel. 

Surround the jars with sufficient warm water to reach the neck of each 
jar. Cover the pan or boiler with a closely fitting lid — two large dishpans 
turned together will do very nicely. Allow the water to come to a boil and 
to cook for one hour. 

Remove the jars, screw the covers on securely. Place the cans upside 
down. 

Keep canned tomatoes in a dark place. 



COOKL\G—BOOK TWO 



1:3 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL EVEN 
NUMBERED PUPILS. 

In today's Lesson you are to sterilize the jar, rubber and cover, and pre- 
pare one or two tomatoes, while your partner will prepare the heated salted 
water for the canning. Your partner will also prepare a tomato or two. 
See recipe on front page ; follow each paragraph carefully. 



Fill your dishpan, placed over a burner, half 
full of cold water ; put cover and jar into it edge- 
wise, that the water may get into both the inside 
and outside of the jar. See FIGURE 1. Light 
the burner and allow the water to come to a boil. 
While it is heating, wash the tomato, plunge it 
into the boiling water, which has been placed for 
you by the Housekeeper — allow it to remain for a 
few seconds. Remove it from the water and with 
a vegetable knife inake a thin cut, and you will 
find that you can draw off the skin of the tomato 
very easily. 





-■s* ■• . . 


; 


/ 




wSaissSk^ 


1 


1 


f 




■ 




\ 


J 



FIGURE 1. 



Allow the jars to remain in the boiling water until you are ready to 
use them. 

Put the tomato into the jar. Dip the rubber ring into the hot water, 
take it out and put it around the neck of the jar. Your partner will add a 
tomato or two and adjust the cover loosely. 



Place the jar into a dishpan prepared by the 
Housekeeper. See FIGURE 2. The bottom of the 
pan should be covered with several thicknesses of 
paper or steamer rings on which to rest the cans 
so they will not come in contact with the bottom of 
the pan. Cover closely with a second pan, and allow 
it to cook over the fire for at least one hour. 

Remove the jar; screw on the cover securely; 
place the can upside down to determine whether or 
not it will leak around the edges of the cover. 




FIGURE 2. 



You are to wipe the dishes today according to directions already learned. 



14 



COOK IX a— BOOK T WO 



HOME RECIPES. 

DIRECTIONS FOR CANNING VEGETABLES. 

Select only sound and fresh vegetables. 

Examine jars by filling them with water, screw on tops, turn upside down 
and see if they are air-tight. 

How to sterilize jars, etc. — 

Sterilize the jars and covers by putting them edgewise into a pan con- 
taining cold water. Heat slowly to boiling point. Keep the jars and covers 
in the hot water until ready for use. 

Dip rubber rings into hot water, but do not injure them by boiling. New 
rubber rings should be used each season. 

Prepare the vegetables. Wash, pare or peel ; and cut in pieces if necessary. 

Fill the jars with the vegetables, cover to overflowing with water that 
has been boiled, salted and cooled. 

Place the rubber rings on and adjust the covers, but do not screw them 
down — the steam must have an outlet. 

Place the jars on a rest, on a folded cloth, or on several layers of paper 
in a large kettle or wash boiler. Add enough cold water around jars to reach 
the neck of jars. Cover the kettle, heat gradually to boiling point, and boil 
according to time-table. 

Take jars out, screw down the covers securely. Place jars upside down. 

NOTE: If full jars are desired, immediately after steaming, the covers 
may be taken off and the jars filled to overflowing with boiling salted wafer. 
Then readjust covers and screw down securely. 



TIME-TABLE. 

Kind. Method. 

Tomatoes Sterilization or Canning 

String Beans " 

Peas 

Corn 

Lima Beans " 

Asparagus " 



Time. 

.1 hour. 

.3 hours. 

.3 to 4 hours. 

.4 to 5 hours. 

.3 hours. 

.3 hours. Boil aspara- 
gus 5 minutes be- 
fore putting in cans. 



COOKL\G—BOOK TWO 15 



QUESTIONS. 

1. What does "preserve'' mean? 

2. What causes food to spoil? 

3. What is meant by bacteria? Germs? 

4. What are favorable conditions for the growth of germs or bacteria? 

5. Name opposite conditions. 

6. Would these conditions hinder their growth? 

7. Name five different vf ays of preserving food ? 

8. What is meant by "canning." 

9. Explain what you did in your Lesson today. 

10. What kind of jar did you use today? 

11. Is a special canning steamer necessary? 

12. What may be used for canning purposes? 

13. AVhat is the secret of successful results in canning? 

14. How long should tomatoes be cooked? 

15. How long should aoparagus be cooked? 



IG COOKING— BOOK TWO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

CANNING OF VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. 

Canning is considered the best method of preserving food. When using 
this method, care must be taken that the micro-organisms on the article and 
the utensils with which it conies in contact during the process of preparation, 
are destroyed. The jar must then be sealed so securely that no germs can 
possibly enter it. 

We learned that some micro-organisms produce spores and that these 
spores are hardier than the parent cell. 

While micro-organisms in food heated to the boiling point, for 10 or 15 
minutes may be killed, the spores might require an hour or more. When 
food is canned by placing the cans in boiling water long enough to destroy 
all spores, the process is known as continued sterilization. We do know 
organisms are present in the article we wish to preserve. Experiments prove 
that germs found in fruit and fruit juices may be killed by boiling the fruit 
from 10 to 15 minutes. 

SELECTION OF JARS FOR CANNING. 

There are several kinds on the market. The ordinary screw top jar is the 
one most commonly used. It is inexpensive and with care is satisfactory. 
The tops, however, break easily and must be replaced often. There is a 
similar jar that has a fitted glass top held in place by a metal screw cover. 
If the sterilization is properly done when this jar is used the air is driven 
out of the jar by steam and upon cooling, a vacuum is formed on the inside 
which clamps down the glass top against the rubber ring. This seals the 
jar automatically and the metal ring can then be removed. 

The Economy Jar requires no rubber ring, but is fitted with a metal top 
with the cover screwed on securely aside for 24 hours, the spores will 
having a groove around the edge. This groove is lined with a substance which, 
upon heating, melts and forms a seal that takes the place of the rubber ring. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 17 

These metal tops must be renewed each year because on opening the jar they 
must be punctured. 

There is another jar considered satisfactory which is provided with a 
rubber ring and a glass top held in place by a simple wire spring. 

As vegetables often spoil after being sterilized because of defective 
rubber rings, we should buy good ones. Usually black rubbers are more 
durable than the white ones. It is best to buy good grade jars. Those Avith 
wide mouths are the best. 

A wash boiler is good for steaming. The bottom should be covered 
with a rack or false bottom. This may be of wire netting made of galvan- 
ized wire or of narrow strips of wood fastened onto 2 strips at each end. 
A heavy layer of straw or several thicknesses of paper or cloth will answer 
the purpose. It is absolutely necessary to cover the bottom of the boiler as 
the jars will break if they come in direct contact with the heat. 

FRACTIONAL OR INTERMITTENT STERILIZATION. 

Vegetables and fruits may be canned by a process known as fractional 
or intermittent sterilization. Experiments prove that the spores, which corre- 
spond to the seeds of the higher plants, with moisture and a moderate tem- 
perature germinate very rapidly. If food is put into sterilized cans and 
heated to the required temperature (165 degrees Fahrenheit for the mate- 
rial in the center of the can) for 15 minutes the micro-organisms are killed, 
but if there are any spores present, they will survive. By putting the can, 
with the cover screwed on securely, aside for 24 hours, the spores Avill 
germinate and become organisms like the parent cell. These are killed by 
reheating at the same temperature for 15 minutes. By repeating the process 
so that the food in the cans has been heated 3 times after intervals of 24 
hours, the micro-organisms are killed, all the spores having developed into 
micro-organisms. 

The covers must be loosened while the cans are in the boiling water 
and screwed down tightly at all other times. This process is called fractional 
or intermittent sterilization. By this method the fruit and vegetables retain 
their natural shape, color, and flavor. 



18 CO(>KlXa—B(X)K TWO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

DIRECTIONS FOR CANNING SOME VEGETABLES WHICH REQUIRE 

SPECIAL TREATMENT. 

Canned Sweet Potatoes: 

Peel and slice the potatoes and boil them in slightly salted water until 
they are tender. Pack them in jars, adding a sprinkling of sugar and salt 
for seasoning if desired. Put on the rubbers and screw the covers on loosely. 
Place the jars in a pan of water and can the same as tomatoes, steaming them 
for 4 hours one day or 1 hour for three successive days. 

Canned Young- Beats: 

Small, tender beets fresh from the ground should be used for canning. 
Cut off the leaves so about an inch of stem remains and wash the young beets 
without bruising the skins. Cook them until tender, drain, and cover with 
cold water. Remove the skins and pack the beets in jars. Cover with warm 
salted water and can the same as tomatoes, steaming only one-half hour, or 
until beets are thoroughly heated. 

Beets for Winter Use: 

Boil the beets in water until they are tender, and then pack them in jars. 
Heat together equal parts of water and vinegar with a little salt and vinegar. 
When it reaches the boiling point, pour it over the beets until it overflows 
the jar, and seal at once. 

Canned Corn on the Cob : 

Boil five to ten minutes, according to size, freshness and ripeness ; plunge 
quickly into cold water. Pack, alternating butts and tips ; add a little boiling 
water and one level teaspoonful of salt to each quart. Put on rubbers, then 
cover loosely. Steam the same as tomatoes, four hours, or one hour three 
successive days. A quart jar will hold about two ears, a two-quart jar from 
three to five. A gallon tin can is really more practical because it will hold a 
good many ears. Begin to pack on the outer edge of the can and work 
. toward the center ; place the butt end down in the first row, then the butt end 
up in the second row, alternate butt ends and top until the can is full. The 
tin cover may be sealed with melted resin. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



19 



FOOD PRESERVATION (Continued). 

CANNING FRUITS. 

Vegetables or fruits may be cooked in the jar or in a kettle and then 
placed in a sterilized jar. Successful results in both depends on perfect 
sterilization. If directions are followed accurately, in today's lesson, the 
fruit will keep indefinitely. 



School Recipe. 
MATERIALS: 2 Peaches. 

V2 Cup Sugar. 
1/2 Cup Water. 
1 Clove. 
1 Thin Shaving- of Lemon Rind. 




CANNING PEACHES. 

In today's Lesson we are going to preserve 
fruit, employing a different method from last 
week's Lesson. 

In place of cooking the materials in the can, 
as we did last Aveek, we are going to cook them in 
the saucepan and pour them while hot into a ster- 
ilized can or jar. 

The object is the same in both methods — 
complete sterilization. 

The amount of sugar may be small or large, 
according to individual taste. 



20 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

ACID AND SALT SUPPLYING FOODS. 

Fruits and vegetables are the principal sources of acid and salt-supplying 
foods. These food elements are also found in fish, meat, and cereals. 

The human body includes compounds of lime, potassium, sodium, iron and 
common salt, the latter of which is found in every part of the body except 
the enamel of the teeth. 

Foods containing mineral matter are necessary for the formation of bones 
and teeth. Since cereals are rich in mineral matter they should form an im- 
portant food in the diet of growing children. 



FRUITS. 

Fruits are seed vessels of plants. They contain a large amount of water, 
cellulose, sugar, acids and salts. They not only refresh and cool the system, 
but stimulate the appetite and act as blood imrifiers. 

The cellulose helps to carry off waste matter and the acids destroy disease 
germs in the body. People who eat a large amount of fruit are seldom ill. 

Bananas, dates and figs are rich in sugary and starchy substances, and 
form the staple food in the countries where they grow. 

Prunes are dried plums. Raisins are dried grapes. 

Eat only sound, ripe fruits. Unripe fruit or fruit that has been kept a 
little too long may be cooked to make it safe for eating. 

You should not oat acid fruits with milk or cream. 



HOW TO SERVE FRESH FRUITS. 

Small fruits, such as strawberries, raspberries, blackberries, huckleberries 
and currants should be moderately chilled. The fruit should be handled as 
little as possible. 

It is a good plan after picking them over to put the selected berries into 
a colander, dipping it in and out of a pan containing cold water. 

Strawberries should be washed before being hulled. 

Cantaloupes should be thoroughly washed and scrubbed, then chilled. 
Just before serving, cut them into halves, crosswise, and scoop out the seeds. 
Serve one-half to each person. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



21 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL ODD 
NUMBERED PUPILS. 

NOTE : In canning the peaches, you are to prepare the syrup and cook 
one peach. Your partner will assist you in preparing the syrup and will like- 
wise cook one peach. Follow each paragraph closely. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Measure the sugar into the saucepan ; add a thin strip of lemon i-ind. 

Pour boiling water over the peach, allowing it to stand just long enough 
to loosen the skin, so it can be easily removed. 

Remove the skin ; cut the peach in halves. 

When the sugar and water have boiled five 
minutes, drop the peach halves into it and cook 
the peaches until they are soft enough to be easily 
pierced Avith a fork. 



Carefully put cooked peaches into a steril- 
ized jar, and with a spoon place each so the 
round side faces the outside of the can. See 
FIGURE 1. It may require the peaches which 
four or more of the girls have prepared to fill 
the jar. 




FIGURE 1. 



After the can has been filled with fruit, pour in the syrup until the can 
is filled to overflowing. 

If you have a silver knife drop it into the boiling water in which your 
jar was sterilized. Slip the blade around the fruit on the inside of the jar; 
this will cause the juice to fill in closely around the fruit, and thus avoid 
leaving any air spaces. Dip the rubber into the boiling water, and place it 
smoothly on the jar. 

The lid must be put on securely. 



You are to WIPE the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 



22 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 



HOME RECIPE : 

2 Cups water. 

3 Lbs. peaches. 
8 Peaehstones. 



1 Lb. sugar. 

8 Cloves and a few shavings of lemon 
rind, if desired. 




CANNING PEACHES. 
General Directions: 

Pour boiling water over peaches, allowing thorn to stand just long enough 
to loosen the skins so they can be easily removed. 

Remove skins, cut in halves, and unless cooked at once drop into enough 
cold water to cover, to prevent peaches turning dark. 

Measure the sugar and water into a preserving kettle ; add a few peach 
stones, cloves and lemon rind to the boiling syrup. Cook the peaches in the 
syrup until soft ; remove the cloves and peach stones. Pack the peaches closely 
in hot sterilized fruit jars and pour over them the boiling syrup. Screw 
cover on securely. 

Pears, cherries, apples, yellow tomatoes and plums may be canned like 
peaches. Plums and tomatoes should be pierced with a needle to keep them 
from bursting. 

Cost of Preparing- Home Recipe of Canned Peaches : 

Ingredients: Cost. 

3 Lbs. peaches cts. 

1 Lb. sugar cts. 

8 Cloves cts. 

Lemon rind cts. 

Total cts. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



23 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL EVEN 
NUMBERED PUPILS. 

NOTE: In canning the peaches you are to prepare the syrup and cook 
one peach. Your partner will assist you in preparing the syrup and will like- 
w'ise cook one peach. Follow each paragraph carefully. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Pour one-half cup of w ater over the sugar measured by your partner. 

Place the saucepan containing the sugar and water over the fire. 

Add the clove. 

Pour boiling water over the peach and allow it to remain in the Avater 
just long enough to loosen the skin so it can be easily removed. 

Remove the skin ; cut the peach in halves ; 
drop halves and peach stone into the boiling 
syrup and cook them until soft. 

Remove peach stone, clove and lemon rind. 

Put cooked peach halves into the fruit jar, 
being careful to place the round side nearest the 
outside of can. See FIGURE 1. It may require 
the peaches which four or more of the girls have 
prepared to fill the jar. The last girl should see 
that the can is filled to overflowing with fruit 
and juice, using syrup from as many saucepans 
as is necessary, and put on the cover securel}'. FIGURE 1. 

Paste label on the jar, giving name of contents and date of canning. 

The rest of the syrup may be kept in jars for fruit sauces. 

You are to WASH the dishes today according- to directions already learned. 




24 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

HOME RECIPES. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CANNING AND PRESERVING FRUIT. 

Select fresh, linn and not over-ripe fruit. Prepare the fruit according 
to kind; remove stems, pare, peel, stone or core. 

For canning fruit allow one-third of the weight of the fruit in sugar, 
and from one to two cups of water to each pound of sugar. Boil the water 
and sugar five minutes to make a thin syi'up ; then cook a small quantity of 
the fruit at a time in the syrup until soft. Pack the fruit closely in hot steril- 
ized fruit jars and pour on enough syrup to overflow jars. Use the blade of 
a knife to push fruit away from jar to let out the air bubbles. Put on steril- 
ized covers and fasten firmly. 

The term, preserving fruit, as ordinarily used, means the cooking of fruit 
in from three-fourths to its own weight of sugar with little or no water used, 
according to the fi'uit. 

NOTE: Fruits should be cooked in granite, earthenware or porcelain 
lined kettles, and silver, wooden or granite spoons used. If cooked in tin or 
ironware, poisonous substances are likely to be formed. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES. 

4 lbs. strawberries ; 3 lbs. sugar ; 3 cups water. 

Pick over, wash, drain and hull the berries and weigh. Boil the sugar 
and water fifteen minutes to make a syrup. Fill sterilized jars with the ber- 
ries cover with syrup ; let stand fifteen minutes ; add more fruit. Screw on 
covers, put on a rest (folded paper or a folded cloth), in a kettle of cold 
water, heat water to boiling point, and cook slowly one hour. 

Raspberries and blackberries may be preserved in the same way. 

SWEET PICKLED PEACHES. 

8 Lbs. fruit. 41/2 Lbs. sugar. 

5 Cups vinegar. 1 Oz. stick cinnamon. 

V4 Oz. ginger root. V2 Oz. whole cloves. 

Prepare fruit as for canning ; boil the vinegar and sugar and the season- 
ing (tied in a piece of cheese cloth) ten minutes. Cook the peaches, a few 
at a time, in the syrup until soft. Put fruit into sterilized jars, fill to over- 
flowing with syrup and screw on covers securely. 

Pears, plums, apples, crab apples or quinces may be used, instead of the 
peaches. The ginger root may be omitted. 

SWEET WATERMELON PICKLES. 

7 Cups rind of melon. V^ Cup cloves. 

3 Cups vinegar. 1-6 Cup stick cinnamon. 

2 Cups sugar. 

Cut rind in strips, remove the green and pink portions. Soak in alum 
water, alloAving two teaspoonfuls powdered alum to each quart of water. Heat 
slowly to boiling point ; cook 10 minutes. Drain, cover with ice water, let 
stand 2 hours; again drain. Boil the vinegar, sugar and seasonings (tied in 
cheese cloth) 10 minutes. Add the rind and cook until tender. Put in jar 
and cover Avith syrup. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 25 



QUESTIONS. 

1. What kind of fruit Avould you select for canning? 

2. Name two ways of preserving fruit and vegetables. 
S. What is meant by sterilization? 

4. How do you sterilize the jars and covers? 

5. Did you can tomatoes at home ? 

6. How do they look and keep? 

7. Is it advisable to add preservatives? Why? 

8. Give general rules for cooking fruit, according to today's directions. 

9. What have you at home that may be used for canning purposes? 

10. What is meant by continued sterilization? 

11. What is meant by intermittent sterilization? 

12. What causes fruit and vegetables to spoil? 

13. What are conditions favorable to growth of germs? 

14. What will hinder their growth? 

15. What are some of the methods of food preservation? 



26 COOKING— BOOK TWO 



SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

While the method of canning given in this lesson is excellent for pre- 
serving all of the larger fruits which need considerable cooking to make 
them tender and sweet throughout, it is not so desirable for berries. Berries 
fall apart so easily when heated in syrup that they quickly lose their charac- 
teristic shape when poured from the preserving kettle into the jars. For this 
reason, the steaming method used in canning tomatoes is the best one to 
employ in canning these fruits. The natural flavor and color also seem to 
be preserved better by this method. 

Naturally, some variation in using this method is necessary because of 
the difference in the flavor of the fruit and the vegetables. Where the air 
spaces around the vegetables are filled with salted water, those around the 
fruit should be filled with boiling sweetened water, called a syrup. Sugar 
is usually higher in price during the canning season than in the winter, and 
many people prefer to add the sugar at that time to economize on the sugar. 
If you desire to do this, boiling water alone may be added to fill in the air 
spaces, provided the jar and its contents are thoroughly sterilized and sealed 
perfectly air tight. 

The thickness or density of the syrup used depends upon the individual 
taste. A moderately rich syrup is obtained by using one part sugar and 
three parts water; one part sugar and two parts water makes a rich syrup, 
and equal parts of sugar and water, a very rich syrup. 

These lessons on canning have, no doubt, been given you at a time of 
the year Avhen fruits and vegetables suitable for canning are plentiful. They 
should prove very valuable to you if you apply the general principles you 
have learned in a broad way by canning not only the kind, of fruits and 
vegetables you prepared in class, but any others that happen to be in season. 



COOKING—BOOK TWO 



27 



PROTEINS— TISSUE BUILDING FOODS. 

COMPOSITION AND COOKING OF EGGS. 

Eggs are selected as the first example of a protein food. In eggs, 
albumen is found in its purest form. It provides an ideal material with 
Avhich to perform experiments to find best methods of cooking it. 



MATERIALS: 



1 
2 

1/4 



School Recipe. 

Eg-g. 

Tablespoons Milk (Scant), 

Teaspoon Salt. 

Few Grains Pepper. 

Teaspoon Bacon Fat. 

Strips of Bacon. 




SCRAMBLED EGGS AND BACON. 

Eggs furnish a highly nutritious, concentrated food, and as they contain 
all the element.^ in the right propoition to support the body they are classed 
as a typical food. 

They should be eaten in combination with foods that are rich in starch, 
such as bread, potatoes, rice, etc. The digestive organs will then have more 
to act upon, a certain amount of bulk being necessary. 

A pound of eggs (9) is equivalent in nutritive value to a pound of 
beef. Eggs are cheap for the healthy person only when the cost does not 
exceed 16 cents per dozen. 



28 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

PROTEINS— TISSUE BUILDING. 
EGGS. 

In one of our Study Lessons in Book I, we learned to classify food under 
five headings. 

One of these we called Proteins. 

Proteins contain carbon, hydrogen, oxygen and nitrogen. They are the 
only foods that contain nitrogen and are often called nitrogenous. 

The proteins repair the worn-out tissues and are called tissue builders 
and muscle formers. 

Eggs constitute one of the most important of the protein foods. 

The eggs of many birds, both wild and domestic are used for food, but the 
eggs of the domestic hen are most commonly used. A hen's egg consists of 
eight parts : 

1. SHELL (carbonate of lime). 

2. MEMBRANE 1 (which lies next the shell). 

3. WHITE (albumen and water). 

4. MEMBRANE 2 (which encloses the yolk). 

5. YOLK (oil, albumen, mineral matter and water). 

6. TWO SPIRAL CORDS (which hold the yolk in place). 

7. EMBRYO (the little mass which lies next to the yolk). 

8. AIR SPACE (which is between Membrane 1 and around end of the 
shell). 

Cut will be shown in a later lesson. 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OP EGGS. 

Protein 14.9% Mineral Matter 1.0% 

Fat ...**.*.'.".'*** 10.6% Water 73.5% 

EXPERIMENTS WITH ALBUMEN. 

Break an egg, separate the yolk from the white. Divide the white into 
3 portions (A, B, and C). 

Ex. 1. — Half fill a glass with cold water, add A. Beat thoroughly. Note 
results. 

Ex. 2.— Half fill a small saucepan with water ; place over heat and when 
the water boils, add B. Boil 2 minutes. Note results. 

Ex. 3.— Half fill a small saucepan with boiling water, add C. Place where 
it will neither simmer nor boil. Let stand 5 minutes. Note results. 

1. Cold water dissolves albumen. 

2. Heat coagulates albumen. Albumen cooked in boiling water is tough 

and horny. 

3. Albumen cooked in water below simmering point is jelly-like and 

tender. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



29 




FIGURE 1. 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 

NOTE: In today's Lesson you are to prepare the scrambled eggs, while 
your partner cooks the bacon. Follow each paragraph closely. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Break the egg. The proper way of breaking an 
Qgg has been shown in an earlier Lesson. 

Drop the contents into your bowl. 

Beat the e^^ slightly with a fork. See FIG- 
URE 1. 

Measure and add the milk, using a little less 
than the spoon can hold each time. 

Measure and add the salt and pepper. 

Measure 1 tsp. of bacon fat, put it into xowv 
omelet (frying) pan and place it over the fire. 

Pour the egg mixture into the pan and cook 
slowly, scraping continually from the bottom of the 
pan, using a tablespoon. See FIGURE 2. 

Heat your partner's and your own sauce plate 
under the burner. 




Serve your partnef and self with the Scrambled 



FIGURE 2. 



Eggs. 



You are to WASH the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 



30 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 

5 Eggs. 
1/2 Cup Milk. 

2 Tablespoonfuls bacon fat. 

11/2 Teaspoouful salt. 
1/16 Teaspoonful pepper. 
12 Strips of bacon. 




SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH BACON. 

General Directions: 

Beat eggs slightly with a fork in a bowl, add salt, pepper and milk. Melt 
the butter or bacon fat on a frying pan, pour in the egg mixture, and cook 
slowly, continually scraping from bottom of pan. When creamy, turn into 
a hot dish and serve at once. Serve with ham or crisp bacon. 

To Pan-Broil Bacon: 

Put thin slices of bacon into a large pan ; pour over them boiling water 
to cover the bottom of pan. Boil rapidly until water is evaporated; turn the 
bacon and cook until the slices are crisp and brown. Serve with scrambled 
eggs. 

Cost of preparing Home Recipe of Scrambled Eggs and Bacon to serve 
family of six : 

Ingredients. Cost. 

5 Eggs cts. 

V2 Cup milk cts. 

2 Tablespoonfuls bacon fat cts. 

114 Teaspoonful salt cts. 

Pepper . .• cts. 

12 Strips bacon cts. 



COOKIMi—llOOK TWO 



31 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 




NOTE: In today's Lesson, you are to prepare the broiled bacon strips, 
while your partner prepares the scrambled eggs. Follow each paragraph 
carefully. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Put the two thin sti'ips of l)acon into your fry- 
ing pan. See FIGURE 1. 

FIGURE 1. 

Pour enough boiling water into the pan to cover the bottom of pan ; cook 
until the water is evaporated ; continue cooking the strips of bacon in pan 
until they are crisp and brown. 

Give your partner one teaspoonful of bacon fat when there is no water left 
in the pan. Save all the fat — it may be used for browning potatoes, meat, etc. 

Drain on paper. 
Surplus fat may be 
drained off by put- 
ting the broiled ba- 
con strips on a piece 
of paper immediately 
after they have been 
broiled. See FIG- 
URE 2. 

Serve your part- 
ner and self with the 
broiled bacon. It 
should be eaten with 
the scrambled eggs 
prepared by your 
partner. 

You are to WIPE the dishes today according- to directions already learned. 




FIGURE 2. 



32 COOKING— BOOK TWO 



HOME RECIPES. 

COOKED EGGS. 

Have ready a saucepan containing boiling water. A general rule is to 
allow one pint of water to two eggs, and an extra cupful for each additional 
egg. Place the eggs in the water with a spoon and cover the saucepan. For 
Soft-Cooked Eggs let them stand in the water on the back of the range where 
it may be kept hot and just below simmering point from 8 to 10 minutes. 
For Hard-Cooked Eggs let them stand in the water on back of range where 
it may be kept hot and just below simmering point from 40 to 45 minutes. 



POACHED EGGS. 

Prepare a slice of buttered toast for each egg and keep it hot. Have 
ready a shallow greased pan containing boiling salted water to cover the eggs. 
Break each egg separately into a saucer and slip it gently into the water, being- 
careful that the water does not reach boiling point. Cook until the white is 
firm and film forms over the top of the yolk. Remove the eggs from the water 
with a skimmer or a griddle cake turner. Drain, trim off rough edges, and 
place each egg on a slice of toast. 



STUFFED EGGS. 

Cut hard boiled eggs in halves lengthwise or crosswise. Remove yolks 
and mash them. Add half the amount of deviled ham and enough melted 
butter to make of consistency to shape. Shape into balls and refill whites. 
Form remainder of mixture into a nest on circular pieces of bread. Arrange 
eggs on the nest. Pour over them white sauce and sprinkle with buttered 
crumbs. Bake in moderate oven until brown. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 33 



QUESTIONS. 

1. Name the elements found in protein foods. 

2. What is their chief office in the body? 

3. What are they sometimes called? 

4. Under what food heading do eggs come? 

5. How should eggs be cooked? 

6. Do you consider them a nourishing food? 

7. Do you consider them a bulky or a concentrated food? 

8. With what kind of foods would you eat eggs ? Why ? 

9. Could we live on protein alone? 

10. Could we live without protein? 

11. What foods are the best heat and energy producers? 

12. Why are eggs selected as the first in our series of protein foods? 

13. Where are proteins digested ? 

14. What digestive fluids act on proteins? 

15. Into what are they changed during the process of digestion? 



34 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

In Book I we learned tlie classification of food. No matter what the 
food may be, it may be classified under one of the five food principles or 
foodstuffs, as they are sometimes called. 

Protein is listed first as it holds the most important place in our diet. 
The chief duty of protein in the body is to build and repair tissue and as 
it is the only food that can perform this duty, it ranks first and foremost. 
No matter how much food we consume, if protein is lacking we shall 
starve. In addition to building and repairhig tissue, proteins can also 
furnish heat and energy, but at great expense to the kidneys. Carbohydrates 
and fats perform this duty and should therefore be combined with proteins. 
The protein foods differ from the other foodstuffs in that they contain 
nitrogen. Foods conspicuous in protein content, as a rule, are high priced. 
They include eggs, meat and fish. Milk, however, is not so high priced. 
Protein in combination Avith carbohydrates is found in cereals, peas, beans, 
lentils and nuts. 

Proteins are partly digested in the stomach, where they are acted upon by 
the digestive fluids in the stomach. Pepsin, in the gastric juice in the stomach, 
acts on proteins, changing them iuto peptones, thus making them ready 
for absorption. 



NAMES OF PROTEIN CONTENT IN DIFFERENT FOODS. 



Eggs Allnunen 

Milk Casein 

Meat Myosin 

Wheat Gluten 

Beans Legumen 

The following table will show the protein content in some common 
foods ! 

Cheese about 45%. Beef about 20%. 

Peas and Beans 24%. Mutton about 18%. 

Poultry about 21%,. Eggs about 15%. 

Egg White about 20%. White bread about 8%. 

Milk about 3%. 



COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 



35 



PROTEINS— TISSUE BUILDING FOODS. 

USE OF EGGS IN DESSERTS. 

Eggs and milk are used in combination in any number of dishes — such 
as custards, salad dressings and puddings. They are also used in batters and 
doughs. Egg has the power of thickening when added to a mixture. 



MATERIALS: 



1/2 Cup Scalded Milk. 

1/2 Slightly Beaten Egg. 

2 Tablespoonfuls Sugar (caramelized), 

1-16 Teaspoonful Salt. 

Yq Teaspoonful Vanilla. 



BAKED CARAMEL CUSTARD WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 





Eggs and milk are 
called typical foods, as 
they are the two foods 
nature has provided, 
either of which support 
life. 

The infant lives on 
milk alone, which fur- 
nishes it with all the 
necessary nutrition to 
support its life. 

Since the egg fur- 
nishes the sole source 
for growth and develop- 
ment of the chick for a 
considerable time, it is 
plain that it contains all 
the elements required 
to keep up life. 



36 



COOKING— BOOK T^yO 



PROTEINS— TISSUE-BUILDING FOODS. 

EGGS— (Continued). 

Careful experiments show that albumen begins to coagulate at 134 deg. 
F., and beomes jelly-like at 160 deg. F. When cooked at 160 deg. to 185 
deg., F., the albumen is rendered tender and readily digestible. Therefore, 
eggs should be cooked at a low temperature. 

WHY EGGS SPOIL. 

Eggs spoil easily. Owing to the porous structure of the shell, bacteria 
enter, either from the place where the eggs have been lying, or by means of 
the air that rushes in as the water evaporates. These tiny living germs grow, 
and thus decomposition takes place. 

FRESH EGGS. 

1. A fresh egg has a thick, rough shell. 

2. A fresh egg sinks when dropped into a basin of cold water. 

3. A fresh egg looks clear when held between the eye and a strong light. 

HOW TO PRESERVE EGGS. 

When eggs come from the market they should be washed and kept in a 
cool, dry place. Eggs may be kept for a long time by packing them, small end 
down, in substances that will exclude air. Ex. — bran, salt, etc. Salt, saw- 
dust and liquid glass are often used. Use 1 quart liquid glass to 12 quarts of 
boiled and cooled water. Pack eggs in stone crocks, cover with liquid glass. 

When using several eggs, break each one separately into a cup. If there 
are any poor eggs among them they may thus be detected. 

The yolk may be kept for some time by covering it with cold water. 

HOW TO BREAK AN EGG. 

Hold the Qgg in the left hand and crack the shell by striking it sharply 
with a knife. 

TO SEPARATE THE YOLK FROM THE WHITE. 

Slip the yolk from one piece of shell to the other several times. Slip 
the white onto a plate or deep platter and drop the yolk into a bowl. 



^«i4 • 



•<-■ * 






FOR SLIGHTLY BEATEN EGG, yolk or white, use a fork to do the 
beating. 

FOR A WELL BEATEN YOLK use a Dover egg beater. 

FOR A WELL BEATEN WHITE use a wire whisk beater. 

DO NOT ALLOW THE BEATEN WHITE TO STAND, but use it imme- 
diately. Do not stir after beating. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



37 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In today's Lesson you are to measure the eggs and salt, and caramelize 
the sugar, while your partner scalds the milk and combines the ingredients. 

Follow each paragraph closely. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Measure the sugar into your frying pan. Be 
sure it- is perfectly clean and smooth. 

Put pan with sugar over the fire, and with a 
tablespoon keep scraping sugar from sides and bot- 
tom of pan (see FIGURE 1) until it turns to a ligbt 
brown syrup. 

Pass it to your partner. 

Measure the beaten egg into your bowl; add 
the salt. 

Pass it to your partner. 

Butter the inside of your custard cup. 

Pour the mixture which your partner has pre- 
pared into the buttered custard cup, and bake in a 
pan containing hot water. FIGURE 2 

Custard is done when a clean cut can be made when cut into willi a 
knife. If mixture clings to the knife, it is underdone. Be sure that the 
water around custard cups is kept below boiling point while cooking custard. 

You are to WIPE the dishes today, according to directions already 
learned. 




FIGURE 1. 




38 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 



4 Cups Scalded Milk. 

5 Eggs. 

V2 Teaspoonfiil Salt. 



1 Teaspoonfiil Vanilla. 
1 Cup Sugar. 



Melt the sugar to a light brown syrup in a saucepan over a hot fire, 
scraping all the time. Add scalded milk slowly and cook until free from 
lumps. Pour this gradually into the slightly beaten eggs while stirring. Add 
salt and flavoring, then strain into a buttered mould. Bake as Yellow Custard 
by placing mould into a pan containing hot water to reach half way to top of 
mould. Bake about 25 minutes, or until a clean cut can be made with a knife. 




CARAMEL CUSTARD. 



Cost of preparing Home Recipe of Caramel Custard to serve a family of 
6 persons : 

Ingredients — 

4 Cups Scalded Milk cts. 

5 Eggs <'ts- 

1/2 Teaspoonful Salt cts. 

1 Teaspoon Vanilla cts. 

1 Cup Sugar cts. 



COOKL\G—BOOK TWO 



39 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 




FIGURE 1. 



In today's Lesson you are to measure and scald the milk and combine 
mixtures, while your partner caramelizes the sugar and measures the egg 
and salt. 



Follow each paragraph closely. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Measure the milk into the top part of the double 
boiler, placed over the lower part filled Vs fi^^^l of 
boiling water. 

Add the scalded milk gradually to the caramel- 
ized sugar prepared by your partner. See FIGURE 1 

Put it over a slow fire until all the caramelized 
sugar is melted, stirring to keep it from burning. 

Pour the milk and sugar mixture gradually into 
the- egg mixture measured by your partner. See 
FIGURE 2. 

Add the vanilla. 

Pass it to your partner. 

When 1)aked. serve your partner and self. See 
FIGURE 3. 




FIGURE 2. 




FIGURE 3. 



You are to WASH the dishes today, according to directions already 
learned. 



40 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

HOME RECIPES. 

YELLOW CUSTARD. 

4 Cups Scalded Milk. 

4 Eggs (if baked iii individual custard cups). 
6 Eggs (if baked in a large mould), 
1/2 Cup Sugar. 
14 Teaspoonful Salt. 

Few grains Nutmeg or Cinnamon. 
Beat eggs slightly ; stir in the sugar and salt ; add slowly the scalded 
milk ; strain into buttered custard cups and sprinkle a little nutmeg on top of 
each. Set cups in a pan containing hot water, and bake in a moderate oven 
until custard is firm. 

If a clean cut can be made with a knife the custard is done. 

Do not let the water in the pan reach the boiling point during baking. 

Why? 

WHITE CUSTARD. 

2 Cups Scalded i\Iilk. V4 Cup Sugar. 

l/g Teaspoonful Salt. Whites of 4 Eggs. 

^ Teaspoonful Vanilla. 

Beat the whites slightlj' ; stir in the sugar and salt. Pour on the scalded 

milk gradually. Add vanilla, strain into a buttered baking dish. Bake as 

Yellow Custard. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 

V2 Square Unsweetened Chocolate. 2 Cups Milk. 

1/2 Cup Sugar. 3 Eggs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls Water. Vs Teaspoonful Salt, 

14 Teaspoonful Vanilla. 

Scald the milk ; melt the chocolate, stir in half the sugar, add the water 
and cook until smooth and glossy. Add the scalded milk to the chocolate mix- 
ture, stirring until well mixed. Beat the eggs slightly, add remainder of sugar 
and the salt. Pour into it the chocolate and milk mixture ; strain into buttered 
moulds. Bake as Yellow Custard. 

CHEESE CUSTARD. 

1 Cup Milk. 1 Egg. 2 Tablespoonfuls Cheese. Sprinkling Pepper. 
Scald the milk ; stir into it the beaten e^g : add the cheese and pepper. 
Bake as Yellow Custard. 

CUSTARD BREAD PUDDING. 

May be made by pouring any of these mixtures over buttered slices of 
toast and baking according to directions for Baked Yellow Custard. 



COOKING— BOOK T^YO 41 



QUESTIONS. 

1. At what temperature does albumen coagulate? 

2. How should egg and egg mixtures be cooked? 

3. How do eggs spoil? Explain. 

4. How can you tell a fresh egg from a stale one? 

5. How may eggs be kept or preserved? 

6. How would you break eggs? 

7. With what would you beat the whites of eggs? 

8. With what would you beat the yolks of eggs? 

9. Give composition of eggs. 

10. Give nutritive value of eggs. 

11. Why are eggs given to persons in a run-down condition? 

12. Where are eggs digested? 

13. What digestive fluids act on eggs? 

14. Into what are they changed during the process of digestion? 

15. Name 3 q^^ and milk dishes. 



42 COOKING— BOOK T^VO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

INVALID COOKERY. 

Food for an invalid should always be prepared so as to render it most 
digestible. Eggs and milk are usually prescribed and should be prepared 
and served in a variety of ways that the appetite may be tempted. Milk may 
be served warm or cold, plain or flavored in junkets, frozen as in ice-cream, 
heated with a little vegetable, fennented as in kumyss or soured as in butter- 
milk, and seasoned as in cream soups, combined with eggs as in eggnogs 
or custards soft or firm. Eggs may be soft cooked, coddled, poached or made 
into omelets, or the white or yolk or both added to broths or mixed with fruit 
juices, or with gelatine as in Spanish Cream pudding and Lemon Pudding. 
All of the above combinations furnish highly nutritive, easily digested foods. 

When the patient is permitted to take fruit juices they will be found 
very refreshing. They are particularly desirable in fevers. 

The foods listed above may be given to a patient when he is in a weak 
condition, and the digestive organs arc not able to take care of heavy foods. 

When the temperature is normal, as a rule, the patient will crave more 
substantial food and it should be furnished. As long as he is confined to 
bed, or is unable to take any kind of exercise, the food should not tax the 
digestive organs very severely. Naturally all rich puddings, cakes, pastries, 
and meats, like veal or pork, that are difficult of digestion should be avoided. 
Frozen desserts, egg puddings, baked potatoes, chicken breast, squabs, quail, 
lamb chops, sAveetbreads and tender, rare beef carefully prepared furnish 
valuable nourishment in an easily digested form. 

Foods should be given to invalids in small quantities at frequent intervals 
during the day. In this way it is easier to judge the effect of different foods 
given and there is less danger of the organs of digestion being overtaxed. 

The personal likes and dislikes of the patient should be given careful 
attention in preparing his food. A food which in itself might be perfectly 
suited to his needs may actually prove harmful if he is forced to eat it when 
it is distasteful to him. 

In any case, the physician's orders in regard to the diet of the patient 
should be carefully folloAved, as the physician is responsible for the recovery 
of the patient. Failure to obey his orders might cause very serious results. 



COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 43 

PROTEINS— TISSUE BUILDING FOODS. 

EGGS IN DESSERTS (Continued). 

Air may be beaten into the white of egg, filling it full of bubbles, 
making a light and porous mass. Sweetened fruit pulp may be added to the 
beaten white of egg and the result is a delightfully fluffy dessert. 



MATERIALS; 



4 Soaked Prunes. 



SCHOOL RECIPE. 
PRUNE WHIP. 



Beaten White of Egg. 



1 Tablespoonful Powdered Sugar. 



1/4 Cup Scalded Milk. 
1/16 Teaspoonful Salt. 



CUSTARD SAUCE. 



2 Teaspoonfuls Sugar. 



1/2 Yolk. 
Few Drops Vanilla. 




In the above recipe, Ave 
have a combination of 
eggs and milk with fruit 
pulp. The eggs are beaten 
separately. This makes a 
wholesome, nutritious des- 
sert. Prunes are dried 
plums. They are classed 
as sub-acid fruits, as they 
do not contain a large pro- 
portion of acid. They are 
rich in sugar. 



PRUNE WHIP AND CUSTARD SAUCE. 



44 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



EGGS— (Continued). 
DIAGRAM OF AN EGG, SHOWING ALL ITS PARTS. 

1st. Porous Shell. 



SHELL 



AlP SPACE 



M£MBRAN£I 




MEMBRANE H 



2nd. Membrane — 1. 

3rd. White. 

4th. Membrane— 2. 

5th. Yolk. 

6th. Two Spiral Cords. 

7th. Embryo or Germ. 

8th. Air Space. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



45 




FIGURE 1. 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In today's lesson you are to prepare the custard sauce, while your part- 
ner prepares the Prune Whip. 

Follow each paragraph closely. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Measure the milk into the top part of a double 
boiler placed over the lower part, which should be 
on the fire Vs full of boiling water. See FIGURE 1. 

Measure the yolk into ,your bowl. 

Add the salt and sugar. 

Pour the scalded milk gradually into the yolk 
mixture, while stirring until all is blended. See 
FIGURE 2. 

Pour all back into the top of double boiler. See 
FIGURE 3. 

Cook and stir constantly until mixture thickens, 
when a thin coating will form on the spoon. 

Take upper part out of lower part immediately : 
otherwise it may curdle. 

If cooked too long it will curdle. If this should 
happen, beat it vigorously with a Dover egg beater. 




FIGURE 2. 




FIGURE 3. 



You are to WASH the dishes today, according to directions already 
learned. 



46 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 

14 Lb. Pmnes. 

Whites 3 Eggs. 
Vs Cup Sugar. 
1 Teaspoonful Lemon Juice. 

Pick over and wash prunes, soak over night or several hours in cold 
water to cover. Cook in the same water or steam in a strainer over hot water, 
until soft. Drain off any surplus moisture. Remove the stones and rub prunes 
through a strainer. Add sugar. Cool mixture. 

Beat the whites of eggs until stiff, add prune pulp gradually, add lemon 
juice. Pile lightly on a serving dish and serve with custard sauce. 




Cost of preparing Home Recipe of Prune Whip and Custard Sauce 

Ingredients : Cost. 

V4 Lb. Prunes cts. 

3 Eggs cts. 

V3 Cup Sugar cts. 

34 Pint Milk cts. 



COQKLNG—BOOK TWO 



47 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In today's lesson you are to prepare the prune whip, while your partner 
prepares the custard sauce. 

Follow each paragraph closely. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Force the pulp of soaked and steamed prunes 
through a strainer or potato ricer. If the strainer 
is used press very carefully so as not to injure the 
strainer. See FIGURE 1. 

Add powdered sugar to the prune pulp. 

Measure ^ of the beaten whites placed at your 
table by the housekeeper on your plate. 

Beat until stiff with the wire beater, add the 
prune pulp gradually while beating. See FIGURE 2. 

When all has been added, the mixture should be 
stiff" enough to hold its shape. 

Pile lightly on a dish. 

Pour custard sauce around it. 

Serve your partner and self. 




FIGURE 1. 




FIGURE 2. 



You are to WIPE the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 



48 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

HOME RECIPES. 



APPLE SNOW. 



Materials : 



34 Cup Apple Pulp. 
Whites 3 Eggs. 
Powdered Sugar. 

Pare, quarter and core 4 sour apples. Steam until soft, and rub through 
sieve. There should be % cup Apple Pulp. Beat the whites of eggs until 
stiff; add gradually apples sweetened to taste. Pile lightly on a dish and 
serve with custard sauce; 1 tablespoonful lemon juice may be added. 

NOTE. — Any kind of fruit pulp may be added in place of the apples. 



CUSTARD SAUCE. 

11/2 Cups Scalded Milk. 
Vs Teaspoonful Salt. 
14 Cup Sugar. 
y^ Teaspoonful Vanilla. 
Yolk 3 Eggs. 

Beat the yolks slightly, add sugar and salt: stir constantly while adding 
gradually the hot milk to the yolk mixture in the bowl. Cook in a double 
boiler, stirring continually until mixture thickens, and a coating is formed 
on the spoon ; chill and flavor. If cooked too long custard will curdle. Should 
this happen, beating the mixture with a Dover egg beater will restore the 
smooth consistency. Wlien eggs are scarce, use two yolks and V2 tablespoon- 
ful Cornstarch. 



FLOATING ISLAND. 

Use recipe for Custard Sauce. Scald the milk, beat the whites until stiff. 
Fold in 2 tablepoonfuls sugar and turn them into the hot milk and cook 3 min- 
utes. Remove whites with a tablespoon into a serving dish. Prepare Custard 
Sauce and pour it around the cooked whites. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 49 



QUESTIONS. 

1. What are prunes? 

2. What do they contain? 

3. Why is prune whip nourishing? 

4. How would you make a smooth custard? 

5. Would you pour the hot milk into the yolk mixture, or the yolk mix- 
ture into the hot milk? Why? 

6. Make a drawing showing all the parts of an egg. 

7. Name the parts in an egg. 

8. Of what is the white composed? 

9. Of what is the yolk composed? 

10. What does heat do to albumen? 

11. What effect has boiling temperature on albumen? 

12. What does simmering temperature do to albumen? 

13. Which renders albumen easier of digestion? 

14. What property does the white of egg possess? 

15. How may it be used? 



50 COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 
EGGS AND MILK AND THEIR NUTRITIVE VALUE. 

Eggs and milk are two foods usually prescribed by physicians when a 
person is in a rundown condition, and it is necessary to renew or build tissue 
rapidly. Eggs and milk are two natural protein foods that may be oaten raw. 
Milk contains all the food elements necessai'y to meet the requirements of nutri- 
tion in the young mammals. Eggs contain all the nourishment needed to develop 
the young chick. In either, all the food elements are present. Although they 
may not be in the right proportion for adult life, they furnish two of the 
most important foods provided by nature. 

If newly laid eggs, washed clean, are covered with lemon juice and 
allowed to stand, the shell is dissolved and then all the elements used for the 
development of the chick are present. This mixture furnishes n desirable 
food for a person in need of concentrated nourishment. Eggs and milk alone 
or in combination may be prepared in a variety of ways, pleasing to the eye 
and palate. Eggs, cooked at a Ioav temperature, are jelly-like throughout ; 
eggs cooked at a high temperature are tough. The former method of cooking 
requires less work on the part of the digestive oi'gans than the latter. Egg 
sul)stitutes may be used to produce approximately the same texture, but not 
the same nutritive value. A true substitute is one that provides e([iv<\] 
nourishment. 

An egg, besides furnishing a food high in protein and fat content, 
iron and phosphorus in an ideal form with a single egg yielding 75 calories 
(calorie: the amount of heat required to raise 1 pound of water 4 degrees F.), 
also provides a most useful and natural leavening agent. This latter attribute 
is due to the cohesive propert}^ of the egg white, which makes it possible to 
beat air into it, forming the whole into a light and porous mass. On heating, 
the enclosed air expands, the albumen coagulates, leaving the bubbles set 
and firm. As albumen coagulates at a low temperature, all egg mixtures are 
exposed to moderate heat only. Omelet, Sponge Cake, Angel Food are ex- 
amples of dishes made light by the introduction of air into the egg whites. 
These are wholesome, nutritious dishes. 



COOKISG—BOOK TWO 



51 



PROTEINS— TISSUE BUILDING FOODS. 

EGGS USED IN SPONGE CAKE. 

Sponge Cake provides a good example of the use of eggs as a leavening 
agent in a batter. Air is beaten into the whites of eggs, then the whites 
are folded into the mixture, so as to retain the enclosed air ; the mixture 
is then baked, thereby firmly fixing the enclosed air l)ubbles. 



MATERIALS; 



1 

4 

% 
1 

4 

V2 



School Recipe. 

Yolk. 

Tablespoons Sugar. 

Tablespoon Water. 

Teaspoon Cornstarch. 

Tablespoons Flour. 

Teaspoon Baking Powder. 

Few Grains Salt. 

Beaten White. 

Few Drops Vanilla or Lemon Juice. 




CREAM OF SPONGE CAKE. 

Sponge Cakes may be made without any baking powder, depending en- 
tirely on the air beaten into the eggs to make them light. More eggs are then 
required. In this lesson you will find a recipe for sponge cake requiring no 
baking powder. Sponge cake, when properly made, is light and porous, is 
easily digested and nourishing. With a little fruit and whipped cream, it 
makes a delicious and nourishing dessert. 



52 COOKING— BOOK TWO 



Review Lesson on Air in Relation to Cookery. 

In our lesson on air in relation to cookery, we learned that batters could 
be made light by the introduction of air. Air at 70 degrees F., when heated 
sufficiently, expands to about double its volume. 

By beating a mixture, a large amount of air is enclosed, and by cutting 
and folding, the air already introduced is prevented from escaping. 

Eggs, by beating, will enclose a large amount of air, as you will notice 
when beating the whites. Baking coagulates the albvimen of the egg, and this 
forms a wall around each bubble, firmly fixing it in place, thereby making the 
mixture light and porous. If the mixture is not baked long enough, the wall 
will not be firm enough to hold the bubbles in place, and the mixture will fall. 

All egg mixtures should be baked at a moderate temperature. 

Cakes made without butter should be baked in unbuttered tins. 

Sponge cakes, on account of the oil in the yolk, may be baked in slightly 
greased tins, although they are usually baked in unbuttered tins. 

A cake is done if a clean straw or knitting needle put into it comes out 
clean, or when pressed lightly on top with a finger, the cake springs back in 
place. It should also shrink from the side of the pan. 

If a cake is cut into while warm, it will be doughy and compact. Break 
sponge or angel cakes into suitable pieces for serving or cut with the end of 
a fork. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



53 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In today's lesson you are to separate the egg, beat the yolk, add the sugar 
and cold water, while your partner measures the dry ingredients, beats the 
white and combines the mixture for the sponge cake. 



See Recipe on Front Page. 

Break the egg, slip the yolk in a bowl and the 
Avhite on a plate. See FIGURES 1 and 2. 

Beat the yolk with a Dover egg beater until 
light yellow. See FIGURE 3. 




FIGURE 1. 



Measure and add the sugar gradually. 

Continue beating with your wooden spoon for 
two minutes. 

Measure and add the cold water. 

Pass it to your partner. 




FIGURE 2. 



Take out your bread pan and muffin tin. 

Write your name on two tiny pieces of paper — 
put one on top of each mixture. 

When cake is baked and cooled divide it in two. 
Do not cut, but break it apart. Serve your partner 
and yourself. 




FIGURE 3. 



You are to WASH the dishes today, according- to directions already learned. 



54 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 



CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 



Yolks 4 Eggs. 
1 Cup Sugar. 
3 Tablespoons Cold Water. 
1^2 Tablespoon Cornstarch. 



1 Cup Flour. 

IV2 Teaspoons Baking Powder, 
^ Teaspoon Salt. 
Whites 4 Eggs. 



1 Teaspoon Lemon Extract. 



\ 




CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat yolks until thick ; add sugar gradually and beat 2 minutes. Then 
add water. Mix and sift cornstarch, flour, baking powder and salt, and add 
to first mixture. Fold in stiffly beaten whites and flavoring. Bake about 30 
minutes in a moderate oven. This cake may be made with 2 eggs, using 2 
teaspoons baking powder and 3 additional tablespoons water. 

Cost of Prepq,ring" Home Recipe of Cream Sponge Cake. 

Materials : Cost. 

4 Eggs cts. 

1 Cup Sugar cts. 

IV2 Tablespoons Cornstarch cts. 

1 Cup Flour cts. 

IV2 Teaspoons Baking PoM-der cts. 

14 Teaspoon Salt cts. 

1 Teaspoon Lemon Extract cts. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



55 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In today's lesson you are to measure the dry ingredients, beat and fold 
in the white and combine the mixtures. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 



Measure the fiour, cornstarch and baking pow- 
der into a strainer placed over a bowl. Mix and sift. 
See FIGURE 1. 

Beat the white until stiff. See FIGURE 2. 

Add the sifted fiour mixture to your partner's 
mixture. 




FIGURE 1. 



Measure and add the vanilla. 

Fold the stiffly beaten white into your partner's 
mixture. See FIGURE 3. 

Fill your partner's bread pan % full with the 
mixture. 

If there is any mixture left over, drop it into a 
muftin tin. 




FIGURE 2. 



Place pan on baking sheet. 

Bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes, or 
until done. 

Try it with a clean broom straw. If it comes 
out clean after it has been jnit into cake, it is done. 
Remove from pan by turning pan upside down. 

Let it stand until cake is cool, when it will come 
out of itself. If you are in a Imrry. inin your spatula 
around sides, when it will slij) out easily. 




FIGURE 3. 



You are to WIPE the dishes today according to directions already learned. 



56 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

HOME RECIPES. 

CHEAP SPONGE CAKE. 

Yolks 2 Eggs. 1 Teaspoon Baking PoAvder. 

% Cup Sugar. 1/6 Teaspoon Salt. 
2 Teaspoons Hot Water. Whites 2 Eggs. 

% Cup Flour. 1/2 Tablespoon Vinegar. 

Beat yolks until thick; add sugar gradually and continue beating; then 
add water, flour mixed and sifted with the baking powder and salt. Fold in 
the stiffly beaten whites of eggs and vinegar. Bake 35 minutes in a moderate 
oven in an unbuttered or a buttered and floured cake pan. 




SMALL SUNSHINE CAKE. 



Whites 5 Eggs. V2 Teaspoon Vanilla. 

% Cup Powdered Sugar. V2 Cup Flour. 

Yolks 3 Eggs. ^/2 Teaspoon Cream of Tartar. 

Beat whites until frothy; add cream of tartar. Beat until stiff and dry: 
add sugar gradually, continue beating ; add beaten yolks and flavoring. Fold 
in sifted flour. Bake as Angel Cake, allowing about 30 minutes for baking. 



COOKING— BOOK T^YO 57 



QUESTIONS. 

1. What is the difference between a sponge and layer cake? 

2. AVhy beat the yolk and white of egg separately? 

3. Would you consider a sponge cake nourishing? 

4. Why? 

5. How may it be served as a dessert? 

6. Why was your cake light today? 

7. Why break a warm sponge cake rather than cut it? 

8. Would you consider sponge cake a protein food? Why? 

9. Classify food. 

10. Name the most important food principle. 

11. What is its chief duty in the body? 

12. May it be used for other purposes? 

13. For what is sugar valuable? 

14. Name three carbohydrate foods. 



58 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

6 Beaten Egg Yolks. Grated Rind 1/2 Lemon. 

1 Cup Sugar. 1 Cup Flour. 

1 Tablespoouful Lemon Juice. 14 Teaspoonful Salt. 

6 Beaten Egg Whites. 

Beat yolks until thick and lemon colored, add sugar gradually, continue 
beating : add the lemon juice and rind, flour and salt. Fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Sponge Drops may be made by dropping a sponge cake mixture by spoon- 
fuls onto pans lined Avith paper. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and bake in 
a slow oven. 

Lady Fingers may be made by forcing a sponge cake mixture through a 
pastry bag and tube on pans lined with paper. They should be about 4 inches 
long and 1 inch wide. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

Chocolate Sponge Cake: Follow directions for Sponge Cake, mixing and 
sifting cocoa with the sugar. 

JELLY ROLL. 

3 Eggs. 1 Teaspoonful Baking Powder. 

1 Cup Sugar. V^ Teaspoonful Salt. 

1/2 Tablespoouful Water. 1 Cup Flour. 

.1 Tablespoouful IMelted Butter. 

Beat eggs, add sugar, milk and dry ingredients sifted, then butter. Spread 
hi a greased, paper lined, shallow pan. Bake about 15 minutes. Spread with 
jam and roll in a cloth to hold its shape. 

MERINGUES, OR KISSES. 

To each stiffly beaten egg white fold in ^4 eiip powdered sugar, a few 
grains of cream of tartar and a few drops vanilla. Drop by spoonfuls onto 
greased paper on a pan. Bake slowly for 30 minutes. 



COOKJXa—BOOK TWO 



59 



PROTEINS— TISSUE BUILDING FOODS. 

MILK. 

Milk contains all the food elements — the carbohydrate is in the form of 
sugar called lactose. If the whole milk is set aside for two or three days, the 
fat will rise and form quite a layer on top of the milk. If this is skimmed off 
and beaten, all the fat globules will collect and butter is tlie result. If the 
remaining sour milk is heated slowly, the solid part of the milk will separate 
from the water. This will give an idea of how much fat, solid matter and 
water there is in milk. 



MATERIALS: Cottage Cheese— 

1 Cup Sour Milk. 

2 Teaspoonfuls Cream. 

Few Grains Salt. 



SCHOOL RECIPE. 

Junket — 
1/2 Cup Milk. 



1/2 Tablespoonful Sugar. 
Ys Teaspoonful Vanilla. 
1/6 Junket Tablet. 
Few Grains Sclt. 




COTTAGE CHEESE AND JUNKET. 

Cottage Cheese is best when the curd is separated from the whey at a very 
moderate heat. Too much heat toughens the casein and albumen (the protein 
subtances in milk) just as our experiments proved in the egg lesson. 

Junket Tablets are made from Rennet, a substance obtained from the 
inner lining of the calf's stomach. When added to milk, the Junket T'ablet 
coagulates and partly digests it, in the same Avay that the Rennin of tlie 
human stomach does. 



60 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

PROTEINS— TISSUE-BUILDING FOOD— MILK. 

MILK is the natural food of the young of all the higher animals. MILK 
IS A PERFECT FOOD for the infant, as it contains all the food principles 
in the right proportion to fully nourish it. MILK should be the chief food 
for a child until the first teeth appear. 

Composition : Protein 3.3% 

Carbohydrates (milk sugar, called lactose) ... 5. -/o 

Fats 4. % 

Mineral matter 7% 

Water 87. % 

The greatest benefit is obtained from milk when it is heated to blood 
heat and taken at regular intervals between meals, and then it is more easily 
digested wdien taken in sips. Small curds are then formed in the stomach. 
Large curds are formed when the milk is taken hurriedly in large quantities. 

Milk should be heated over hot water unless there is a good reason for 
doing otherwise. Boiling milk coagulates and toughens the albumen and 
makes it less digestible. 

BUYING MILK. 

DO NOT BUY CHEAP MILK. GOOD MILK is a yellowish Avhite liquid, 
and tastes slightly sweet. MILK undiluted with water clings to the glass. 

MILK should have no sediment, and should not look blue around the 
edges. A good plan is to buy MILK in the evening, and let it stand over 
night in order to let the cream rise. Skim and serve the cream with the 
cereal and coffee for breakfast. Use the SKIM MILK for COOKING and 
Drinking purposes. 

MILK QUICKLY ABSORBS ODORS, and should be kept in clean vessels 
(glass or earthenware) in a cool, clean place. 

MILK PRODUCTS. 

When milk stands, the fat globules rise to the top in the form of CREAM. 
Cream is put into a churn and shaken, and the globules of cream gather to- 
gether as butter, and the liquid left is called BUTTERIMILK. " 

An acid added to milk coagulates the casein, forming a CURD, separating 
it from the liquid then called WHEY. The CURD is then made into CHEESE, 
which contains condensed nourishment (casein and fat of milk). 

CONDENSED MILK is prepared by evaporating milk to about 1/2 to ^4 
of its volume. 

MILK is preserved by STERILIZATION, PASTEURIZATION and 
EVAPORATION. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



61 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In today's lesson you are to prepare the Junket, while joiir partner pre- 
pares the Cottage Cheese. 

Follow each paragraph closely. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Measure the milk and heat it until lukewarm 
(so that it is neither hot nor cold to the touch). 

Measure and add the sugar, salt and flavoring ; 
stir until the sugar is dissolved. 

Dissolve the 1/6 junket tablet in ^ teaspoonful 
of water. See FIGURE 1. 

Add the junket and water to the milk mixture. 
See FIGURE 2. 

Pour mixture into your custard cup. 

Let stand in a cool place until it becomes about 
the consistency of a baked custard. 

Serve your partner and yourself. 




FIGURE 1. 




FIGURE 2. 



You are to WIPE the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 



62 



COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 



MATERIALS ; 



1 Qt. Milk. 

4 Tablespoonfuls Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful Vanilla. 



1 Tablespooiiful Liquid Rennet, or 
1 Junket Tablet dissolved in 
1 Tablespoonful Water. 
l^ Teaspoonful Salt. 



Heat the milk until lukewarm; add the sugar, salt and flavoring; stir 
until the sugar is dissolved. Add the junket and water mixture and pour 
into the serving dish. Let stand in a cool place until firm like a baked cus- 
tard. Serve with plain or whipped cream or sliced fruit. 




JUNKET WITH FRUIT. 

Cost of preparing Home Recipe of Junket : 

Ingredients : Cost. 

1 Qt. Milk - cts. 

4 Tablespoonfuls Sugar cts. 

1 Teaspoonful Vanilla cts. 

1 Junket Tablet cts. 

1/4 Teaspoonful Salt cts. 



COOK I Xa— BOOK T WO 



63 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In today's lesson yon are to prepare the Cottage Cheese, while yonr part- 
ner prepares the Junket. 

Follow each paragraph closely. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Heat the milk slowly in a double boiler (see 
FIGURE 1) until the curd separates from the whey. 

Strain through a piece of cheesecloth. Squeeze 
curd until quite dry. 

Put curd into your bowl and with a spoon or 
fork mix it with salt, butter and cream. Divide in 
two parts. See FIGURE 2. 

Form into two balls, serving one to your partner 
and one to yourself. 




FIGURE 1. 




FIGURE 2. 



You are to WASH the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 



64 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

HOME RECIPES. 

PASTEURIZED MILK. 

Sterilize bottles by putting tbem edgewise into cold water; bring slowly 
to boiling point and boil 20 minutes. Fill the sterilized bottles % full of milk 
and cork with cotton which has been baked in the oven, or with sterilized 
rubber corks. Place bottles on a rest or on several thicknesses of paper in a 
pan. Fill pan with enough cold water to reach as high as the milk in the 
bottles. Heat gradually to 160 deg., or until small bubbles appear in the milk 
next the glass. Keep at this temperature 40 minutes. Cork the bottles 
quickly and keep in a cold place. Do not remove corks until ready to use 
the milk. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

1 Cup Thick Cream. 3 Tablespoonfuls Sugar. ^2 Teaspoonful Vanilla. 

Pour the cream into a bowl and set in a pan of ice water. Whip with 
a wire whisk or Dover egg beater until stiff enough to hold its shape. Add 
sugar and vanilla. Do not beat the cream too long. 



SOUR MILK CHEESE OR COTTAGE CHEESE. 

1 Qt. Sour Milk. 1/4 Teaspoonful Salt. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter." 2 or 3 Tablespoonfuls Cream. 

Heat the milk slowly until the curd separates from the whey. Strain 
through a piece of cheesecloth. Squeeze curd until quite dry. Put curd in 
a bowl and with a spoon or fork mix it with salt, butter and cream. Form 
into balls. These may be rolled in chopped parsley. Tbe curd may be sepa- 
rated from the whey by adding 1 Junket Tablet to a quart of milk heated 
to 100 deg. F., then beaten until the curd separates from the whey. 

Cottage Cheese may be mixed with finely chopped Pimento. Served 
between slices of bread as sandwiches or shaped into cheese balls and served 
on lettuce leaves as a salad or with fruit and other salads. It may be mixed 
with chopped olives or pickles or green pepper and used in the same way. 



COOKLSU—BOOK TWO 65 



QUESTIONS. 

1. For whom is milk a perfect Food? 

2. What does milk contain? 

3. At what temperature is milk most easily digested? 

4. How should it be drunk? AVhy? 

5. Name three different dishes containing- milk in large proportions. 

6. How would you prepare Cottage Cheese? 

7. How would you prepare Junket? 

8. How can you make butter? 

9. How much water is there in milk? 

10. How much protein is there in milk? 

11. How much fat is there in milk? 

12. How much mineral matter is there in milk? 

13. HoAv is milk pasteurized? 

14. How is milk sterilized? 



66 COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

Fifty sanitary rules adopted from dairy rules recommended by the U. S. 
Government Department of Agriculture, Dairy Division, by City Boards of 
Health in several cities in the United States. 

The Owner and His Helper. 

1. Read current dairy literature and keep posted on new ideas. 

2. Observe and enforce the utmost cleanliness about the cattle, their at- 
tendants, the stable, the dairy and all utensils. 

3. A person suffering from any disease or avIio has been exposed to a 
contagious disease must remain away from the cows and the milk. 

4. Keep dairy cattle in a room or building b}^ themselves. It is prefer- 
able to have no cellar below and no storage loft above. 

5. Stables should be well ventilated, lighted, and drained; should have 
tight floors and walls and be plainly constructed. 

6. Never use musty or dirty litter. 

7. Allow no strong smelling material in the stable for any length of 
time. Store the manure under cover outside the cow stable and remove it to 
a distance as often as practicable. 

8. Whitewash the stable once or twice a year; use landplaster in the 
manure gutters daily. 

9. Use no dry or dusty feed just previous to milking ; if fodder is dusty, 
sprinkle before it is fed. 

10. Clean and thoroughly air the stable before milking; in hot weather 
sprinkle the floor. 

11. Keep the stable and dairy room in good condition and then insist 
that the dairy, factory or place where the milk goes is kept equally well. 

The Cows. 

12. Have the herd examined at least twice a year by skilled veteri- 
narians. 

13. Promptly remove from the herd any animal suspected of being in 
bad health and reject her milk. Never add an animal to the herd until cer- 
tain it is free from disease, especially tuberculosis. 

14. Do not move cows faster than a comfortable walk while on the way 
to place of milking or feeding. 

15. Never allow the cows to be excited by hard driving, abuse, loud 
talking, or unnecessary disturbances; do not expose them to cold or storms. 

16. Do not change the feed suddenly. 

17. Feed liberally, and use only fresh, palatable feed stuffs; in no ease 
should decomposed or moldy material be used. 



COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 67 

18. Provide water in abundance, easy to access and always pure ; fresh, 
but not too cold. 

19. Salt should always be accessible. 

20. Do not allow any strong flavored food, like garlic, cabbage and tur- 
nips, to be eaten, except immediately after milking. 

21. Clean the entire body of the cow daily. If the hair in the region of 
the udder is not easily kept clean it should be clipped. 

22. Do not use the milk within 20 days before calving, nor for 3 to 5 
days afterward. 

Milking. 

23. The milker should be clean in all respects ; he should not use tobacco ; 
he should wash and dry his hands just before milking. 

24. The milker should wear a clean outer garment, used only when 
milking, and kept in a clean place at other times. 

25. Brush the udder and surrounding parts just before milking, and 
wipe them with a clean, damp cloth or sponge. 

26. Milk quietly, quickly, cleanly and thoroughly. Cows do not like 
unnecessary noise or delay. Commence milking at exactly the same hour 
every morning and evening, and milk the cows in the same order. 

27. Throw away (but not on the floor — better in the gutter) the first 
few streams from each teat ; this milk is very watery and of little value, but 
it may injure the rest. 

28. If in milking a part of the milk is bloody or stringy or unnatural 
in appearance, the whole mess should be rejected. 

29. Milk with dry hands ; never allow the hands to come in contact with 
the milk. 

30. Do not allow dogs, cats or loafers to be around at milking time. 

31. If any accident occurs by which a pail full or partly full of milk be- 
comes dirty, do not try to remedy this by straining, but reject all this milk 
and rinse the pail. 

32. Weigh and record the milk given by each cow, and take a sample 
morning and night, at least once a week, for testing by the fat test. 

Care of Milk. 

33. Remove the milk of every cow at once from the stable to a clean, dry 
room, where the air is pure and sweet. Do not allow cans to remain in stables 
while they are being filled. 

34. Strain the milk through a metal gauze and a flannel cloth or layer 
of cotton, as soon as it is drawn. 



68 COOK I XG— BOOK TWO 

35. Aerate and cool the luilk as soon as strained. If an apparatus for 
airing and cooling at the same time is not at hand, the milk should be aired 
first. This must be done in pure air, and it should then be cooled to 45 degrees 
if the milk is for shipment, or to 60 degrees if for home use or delivery to a 
factory. 

36. Never close a can containing warm milk which has not been 
aerated. 

37. If cover is left off the can, a piece of cloth or mosquito netting 
should be used to keep out the insects. 

38. If milk is stored it should be held in tanks of fresh, cold water (re- 
newed daily), in a clean, dry, cold room. Unless it is desired to remove cream, 
it should be stirred with a tin stirrer often enough to prevent forming a thick 
cream layer. 

39. Keep the night milk under shelter so rain cannot get into the cans. 
In warm weather, hold it in a tank of fresh cold water. 

40. Never mix fresh, warm milk with that which has been cooled. 

41. Do not allow milk to freeze. 

42. Under no circumstances should anything be added to milk to pre- 
vent its souring. Cleanliness and cold are the only preventatives needed. 

43. All milk should be in good condition when delivered. This may 
make it necessary to deliver twice a day during the hottest weather. 

44. When cans are hauled far they should be full, and carried in a 
spring wagon. 

45. In hot weather cover the cans, when moved in a wagon, with a 
clean, wet blanket or canvas. 

The Utensils. 

46. Milk utensils for farm use should be made of metal and have all 
joints smooth soldered. Never allow them to become rusty or rough inside. 

47. Do not haul waste products back to the farm in the same cans used 
for delivering milk. When this is unavoidable, insist that the skim milk or 
whey tank be kept clean. 

48. Cans used for the return of skim milk or whey should be emptied 
and cleaned as soon as they arrive at the farm. 

49. Clean all dairy utensils by first thoroughly rinsing them in warm 
water ; then clean inside and out with a brush and hot water in which a clean- 
ing material is dissolved ; then rinse and, lastly, sterilize by boiling water or 
steam. Use pure water only. 

50. After cleaning, keep utensils inverted in pure air, and sun if pos- 
sible, until wanted for use. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



69 



PROTEINS— TISSUE BUILDING FOODS. 

MILK PRODUCTS— CHEESE DISHES. 

In the previous lesson Ave learned that cheese is made from the solids in 
the milk, and as these contain the protein and mineral matter, they would 
naturally furnish highly nutritious food. As cheese is somewhat compact, it 
is more easily digested when finely subdivided and mixed, or beaten with 
bulky foods. 



MATERIALS; 



SCHOOL RECIPE. 

ll^ Tablespoonfuls Flour. 

Few Grains Salt. 
1/2 Teaspoonful Butter. 
2 Tablespoonfuls Bread Crumbs. 
2 Tablespoonfuls Grated Cheese. 

About 1 Teaspoonful Milk. 




Cheese Straws may l)e nuuh' with the above ingredients, or witli a pastry 
dough. The nbove makes a inorc digestible cheese straw. 

Cheese StraAvs are usually sci'vcd witli salnds. All dishes prepared with 
cheese are highly nutritious. 



70 COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 

CHEESE. 

Cheese is the curd of milk separated and pressed. 

Cheese is made chiefly from the milk of cows. Goat's Milk is sometimes 
used. Cheese may be made from whole milk, milk to which cream has been 
added, or from skimmed milk. 

The curd may be separated by allowing the milk to stand until it is sour. 
It is then heated slightly and the curd separated from the whey. It may be 
prepared by the action of rennet. The curd is then pressed to remove the 
whey. After pressure the curd is set aside and kept at a favorable tempera- 
ture to ripen — the time required varying from a short time to three or four 
years. New flavors are developed and the texture altered during the ripen- 
ing process. The ripening is due to bacteria and moulds. Cheese made from 
full milk is half fat. Cheese made of skimmed milk is sometimes filled by 
the addition of cheap fat — lard, etc. 

Filled cheese is greasy when warmed, and does not keep well. Various 
brands of cheese take their names from the places where they are made. 

SKIM MILK Cheese are — Parmesan, Edam and Gruyen. 

MILK Cheese — Gorgonzola, Cheddar, Gloucester, Cheshire. 

MILK and CREAM Cheese— Double Gloucester, and Stilton, Neufchatel 
Cream Cheese, Camembert and Brie, Brick Cheese, Roquefort. 

ONE POUND of Cheese contains as much nutriment as 2 pounds meat. 
It is a highly concentrated protein food, and therefore should be eaten in 
small quantities with carbohydrates. 

Cheese should be kept covered. 

Grate the cheese when it becomes hard and dry. 

Any kind of cheese is made more digestible by being finely divided, or 
dissolved and mixed with other foods, as in cooking. 

Cheese may be added to several scalloped dishes (ex., INIaoaroni and 
Cheese), or used as flavoring for soups. 

Cheese is sufficiently cooked when melted — long cooking makes it tough. 

Soda added to dishes prepared with Cheese makes the Cheese dissolve 
more readily, thereby making it more digestible; Vg teaspoonfnl so(hi to a cup- 
ful of cheese is the usual proportion used. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



71 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In today's lesson you are to measure the Hour, salt, butter and crumbs, 
while your partner grates the cheese, measures the milk and combines the 
ingredients.. 



Follow each paragraph closely. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Measure the flour and salt into a strainer placed 
over a bowl. Stir with a spoon. See FIGURE 1. 

Measure the butter and add it to the flour. 

Rub two pieces of stale bread together to make 
crumbs. See FIGURE 2. 

Measure 2 tablespoonfuls of crumbs. 

Mix the butter with the flour, chopping it in 
with a knife. 

Add the crumbs. 

Pass it to your partner. 

Take out your bread board, sprinkle it lightly 
with flour. Knead as shown in FIGURE 3. 

Roll out the dougli prepared hy your partner 
to 14 inch thickness (rectangular piece). 

Cut into 2 strips about V2 inch wide. Make a 
ring of the left-over piece. 




FIGURE 1. 




FIGURE 2. 




FIGURE 3. 



You are to WASH the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 



72 COOKING— BOOK T^YO 

NOTE BOOK WORK. 

5 Tablespoonfuls Flour. 

14 Teaspoouful Salt. 
Few Grains Paprika. 

V2 Tablespoonfiil Butter. 

V2 Cup Soft Bread Crumbs. 

^2 Cup Grated Cheese. 
1 Tablespoonful Milk, or more. 



CHEESE STRAWS. 

WORKING DIRECTIONS. 

Add salt and pepper to the flour, chop in the butter, add crumbs and 
grated cheese. Mix thoroughly, then add milk to make a dough. Knead 
until smooth. Roll ^ inch thick and cut in strips. Lay them on buttered 
paper in a pan and bake 10 minutes, or until light In-own, in a moderate oven. 

Cost of preparing Home Recipe of Cheese Straws: 
Materials : Cost. 

5 Tablespoonfuls Flour cts. 

V2 Tablespoonful Butter cts. 

V2 Cup Bread Crumbs cts. 

V2 Cup Grated Cheese cts. 

1 Tal)lespoonful :Milk ct». 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



73 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 

Ill today's lesson you are to grate the cheese, measure the milk, combine 
ingredients and bake the straws. 

Follow each paragraph closely. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Grate the cheese; if it is too soft to grate, cut 
it into fine shavings. 

Add it to your partner's mixture. 

Work it in with a knife or fork or tips of fin- 
gers, until all ingredients are thoroughly mixed. 

Add the milk, continue mixing with a knife un- 
til a smooth, stiff dough has been formed. It may 
take a little more milk, but only enough to hold the 
ingredients together should be added. See FIG- 
URE 1. 

Pass it to your partner. 

Place the strips prepared by your partner onto the buttered baking sheet. 
See FIGURE 2. 

Bake on top shelf in the oven until a light brown. 

Serve your partner and self. 

You are to WIPE the dishes today according- to directions already 
learned. 




FIGURE 1. 




FIGURE 2. 



74 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

HOME RECIPES. 

TOASTED CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Prepare toast ; dip quickly iu hot salted water. Spread with grated 
cheese ; place in a pan in the oven long enough to melt the cheese. 
Put the slices together as sandwiches. 

WELSH RARE BIT. 

MATERIALS : 

1/2 Lb. Cheese (grated). Y^ Teaspoonful Soda. 

V4 Teaspoonful Mustard. 1/2 Cup Milk. 

1/2 Teaspoonful Salt. 2 Eggs. 

Few Grains Cayenne. 1 Tablespoonful Butter. 

Crackers or Toast. 

Mix the first 6 ingredients ; cook over hot water until cheese is melted ; 
pour this onto the slightly beaten eggs, add the butter, and cook over hot 
water, stirring constantly until thick and smooth. Pour over slices of toast 
or crackers and serve at once. 

CHEESE FONDUE. 

1 Cup Scalded Milk. 1 Tablespoonful Butter. 

1 Cup Soft Bread Crumbs. V2 Teaspoonful Salt. 

2 Cups Cheese (cut fine). 1/4 Teaspoonful Mustard (if liked). 
Few Grains Pepper. 3 Fggs. 

Mix first 7 ingredients, add well beaten yolks. Cut and fold in the 
stiffly beaten whites. Pour into a buttered baking dish and bake 20 minutes. 
Baked in ramekin dishes — called Cheese Ramekins. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

2 Tablespoonfuls Butter. Vs Teaspoonful Salt. 

2 Tablespoonfuls Flour. Few Grains Cayenne. 

1/2 Cup Scalded Milk. % Cup Grated or Shaved Cheese. 

2 Eggs. 

Melt the butter, add flour, and when thoroughly mixed add gradually the 
scalded milk, stirring all the time until smooth and thickened. Then add 
seasonings and cheese. Remove from fire, add the well beaten yolks, cool; 
fold in the stiffly beaten whites. Pour into a buttered baking dish and bake 
about 20 minutes. Serve immediately. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 75 



QUESTIONS. 

1. What is Cheese? 

2. Name three different kinds of Cheese. 

3. Compare 1 lb. of Cheese with 2 lbs. of meat as to nourishment con- 
tained. 

4. Would you call Cheese a bulky or concentrated food ? 

5. What may be added to Cheese to make it more easily digested? 

6. How would you make Cheese Straws? 

7. With what are Cheese Straws usually served? 

8. What is rennet ? 

9. What does milk contain? 

10. Why does milk sour? 

11. How should milk be heated? 

12. Name three dishes with milk as the chief ingredient. 

13. Name three cheese dishes. 



76 COOKING— BOOK TWO 



SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

Water plays an important part in nutrition. As previously learned in 
Book I, water constitutes % the weight of the body; it is a regulator of body 
processes as a solvent ; it carries nutritive material, carries off waste material 
and regulates the temperature of the body. It is interesting to note that 
almost all foods, either naturally or during the process of preparation, con- 
tain at least % water when served. 

Ap water is given off constantly through the lungs, skin and kidneys, 
it is necessary to constantly replenish the supply. It is a good plan to drink 
a glass of water on rising in the morning, to cleanse the digestive tract. It 
should not be taken too cold. Water with meals does not interfere, but aids 
digestion, if not drunk in excess. Foods in a state of dilution are more easily 
digested ; 1 pint or 2 glassfuls of water is not considered too much at 1 meal. 
This, of course, may be in the form of soups, milk, succulent fruits or vege- 
tables or as water alone. 

If water is contaminated, freezing does not kill the micro-organisms; it 
simply checks their growth, while in the frozen state. 

Artificial ice is manufactured by freezing water, changing it to ice by an 
ammonia process. 

In the household, ice is used for preserving food, freezing mixtures and 
cooling beverages. A refrigerator is a box built with several layers of non- 
conducting material with an ice chamber, food chambers, and waste pipe to 
carry away melted ice. The air is cooled by the ice in the chamber. 

If you have an opportunity you should study the different kinds of refrig- 
erators. If ice is dirty it should be washed before being put into the chamber. 

The refrigerator should be washed out as often as is necessary to keep 
it perfectly clean. The doors should be kept tightly closed at all times. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



11 



PROTEINS— TISSUE BUILDING FOODS. 

MILK PRODUCTS— CREAM DESSERTS. 

Ice cream and frozen milk and egg dishes are frequently recommended 
by physicians as valuable food for the sick and convalescent. One reason for 
this is that it furnishes all the food elements in an attractive form pleasing 
to the patient. 



MATERIALS: 



School Recipe. 

14 Cup Cream, 
IV2 Tablespoonfuls Sugar. 
V4 Teaspoon Vanilla. 

FREEZING MIXTURE. 

1/2 Cup Rock Salt. 
11/2 Cups Crushed Ice. 




ICE CREAM SERVED IN A CANTALOUPE. 

Ice Cream should be frozen cream. Sometimes it is made with a cus- 
tard foundation, then it is Custard Ice Cream. A pure ice cream is very 
nutritious. Much of the ice cream on the market is adulterated. Under no 
circumstances should cheap, impure ice cream be eaten. 



78 VOOKlSG—noOK TWO 

Freezing-. 

Ice and Salt form a freezing mixture, several degrees below the freezing 
point of water. 

Salt melts the ice, withdrawing heat from the contents of the can, and 
the melting ice dissolves the salt. The smaller the piece of ice, the more 
quickly the change to liquid; and the more salt used the more quickly the 
mixture is frozen. If too much salt is used, however, the frozen mixture 
Will be coarsely grained; 3 parts ice to 1 part salt is the best proportion 
for a smooth, fine-grained cream. 

Directions for Freezing. 

Scald can, cover and dasher, then chill. 

Place the can of the freezer in the pail; put in the dasher. Cover and 
adjust top. Turn crank to make sure can fits in socket. Remove cover, 
pour in mixture to be frozen, readjust cover and crank. 

Fill the space between the can and pail with alternate layers of ice and 
salt, allowing three measures of ice to one of salt. 

The ice and salt should come a little higher in the pail than mixture 
to be frozen. 

The can should not be more than % full, as the mixture expands in 
freezing. 

Turn the crank slowly at first, then turn crank more rapidly, adding 
more salt and ice if needed. 

Do not draw off the water, unless it stands so high that there is danger 
of it getting into the can. 

After freezing, draw off the water, remove dasher, and with a spoon press 
the mixture compactly. 

Put cork in opening of cover. 

Repack, using 4 parts of ice to 1 of salt. 

Cover with newspapers, an old blanket, or a piece of carpet. 

How to Make Ice Cream or Ices without a Freezer. 

Cover bottom of pail with crushed ice. Put in baking powder can, tum- 
bler, or lard pail containing mixture to be frozen, and surround with ice and 
salt. Turn can or tumbler with hand occasionally, and as soon as it begins 
to freeze scrape frozen mixture from sides of can, and beat mixture with 
spoon, continuing until mixture is frozen. 



COOKL\G—BOOK TWO 



79 




FIGURE 1. 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL ODD 
NUMBERED GIRLS. 



NOTE: In today's Lesson you .should prepare 
the ice and salt for freezing, also prepare the ice 
cream. 

Follow each paragraph closely. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Put the ice and salt into the dishpan placed at 
your table by your partner. See FIGURE 1. 

IMeasure the cream, sugar and vanilla into your 
pudding mould (steamer) or tin measuring cup. 

Cover it and put it into the ice and salt. See 
FIGURE 2. 

After 5 minutes take out your spatula or knife 
and scrape the sides of the tin containing the cream 
mixture, and give it a good stirring or beating. See 
FIGURE 3. 

Let stand for 5 minutes. 

Repeat until mixture is entirely frozen. 

Serve yourself. 

You are to WIPE the dishes today according to 
directions already learned. 




FIGURE 2. 




FIGURE 3. 



80 



COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM— I. 

11/2 Tablespoonfuls Vanilla. % Cup Sugar. 1 Quart Thin Cream. 

Mix ingredients and freeze according to directions for freezing. 




INDIVIDUAL PORTION ICE CREAM AND PEACHES. 




ICE CREAM MOULDED IN BRICK FORM AND PEACHES. 

Cost of Preparing Home Recipe of Ice Cream. 

Materials : Cost. 

1 Quart Cream cts. 

% Cup Sugar cts. 

11/2 Tablespoonfuls Vanilla cts. 

Ice cts. 

Salt cts. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



81 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL EVEN 

NUMBERED GIRLS. 

NOTE: In today's Lesson you should prepare tlie ice and salt for freez- 
ing, also prepare the ice cream. Follow each paragraph closely. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Put the ice and salt into the dish pan placed at 
your table by your partner. See FIGURE 1. 

Measure the cream, sugar and salt into your 
pudding mould (steamer) or tin measuring cup. 

Cover it and put it into the ice and salt. 

After 5 minutes take out your spatula or knife 
and scrape the sides of the tin containing the cream 
mixture, and give it a good stirring or beating. 

Let it stand for 5 minutes. 

Repeat until the mixture is entirely fi'ozen. 

Serve yourself. 

You are to WASH the dishes today according to directions already learned. 




FIGURE 1. 



82 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

HOME RECIPES. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM— II. 

11/2 Cups Scalded Milk. 1 Egg. 

1 Tablespoon Flour. 1 Quart Thiu Cream. 

% Cup Sugar. 2 Tablespoons Vanilla. 

Vs Teaspoonful Salt. 

Mix flour, sugar and salt; add egg slightly beaten, and milk gi-adually. 
Cook in double boiler 20 minutes, stirring constantly at first. Should custard 
have curdled appearance, it will disappear in freezing. When cool, add flavor- 
ing and cream. Strain and freeze. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

Melt four ounces unsweetened chocolate ; add one cup water and boil 5 
minutes. Add this to Vanilla Ice Cream mixture. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

1 Quart Thin Cream. 
1 Cup Sugar. 

1 Box Strawberries. 

Wash and hull berries. Sprinkle with sugar. Let stand 1 hour. Mash 
and rub through strainer. Add the cream and freeze. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM. 

Prepare the same as Vanilla Ice Cream II, using IV2 cups sugar. Car- 
amelize 1 cupful of the sugar by putting the dry sugar into a smooth sauce- 
pan or spider over the fire, stirring until the sugar melts and looks like a 
syrup. 

NUT ICE CREAM. 

Add chopped nuts to Vanilla Ice Cream mixture. 

MILK SHERBET. 

2 Cups Sugar. 

V2 Cup Lemon Juice. 
1 Quart Milk. 

Mix the sugar and strained lemon juice. Pour the milk into the freezer- 
can, add the lemon mixture. Stir thoroughly, cover and freeze. 

Cream and grated pineapple together with the lemon juice makes a very 
good mixture. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 88 



QUESTIONS. 

1. Why do we combine ice and salt for freezing mixtures? 

2. What proportions of ice and salt would you use when you desire to 
freeze a fine grained mixture? 

3. What proportions for a coarsely grained mixture? 

4. Why scald the can, etc., before freezing? 

5. How many parts to an ordinary freezer? 

6. Can you make ice cream without a freezer? 

7. What would you use in place of a freezer ? Explain. 

8. How was your ice cream today ? 

9. What is a refrigerator? 

10. Of what is it made? 

11. How many parts are essential? 

12. For what is it used ? 

13. How should the ice be treated? 

14. How can you keep the refrigerator sweet and clean? 

15. Is ice croam nourisliing? 



84 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

In this lesson you have quite a nuniher of recipes for frozen cream dishes, 
with the general rules for freezing. A great variety of frozen dishes called 
ices may be prepared by freezing a mixture of fruit juice sweetened and 
diluted with water. These will be found very refreshing, and although they 
are not nourishing like ice cream, they make a delightful accompaniment for 
the meat course and may also be served for dessert. 

Below are some recipes for ices you can try out at home. 

LEMON ICE. 

4 Cups Water. % Cup Lemon Juice. 

2 Cups Sugar. 

Make a syrup by boiling water and sugar 20 minutes ; add lemon juice, 
cool, strain and freeze, according to directions for freezing ice cream. 

ORANGE ICE. 

4 Cups Water. ^4 Cup Lemon Juice. 

2 Cups Sugar. Grated Rind of 2 Orang-es. 

2 Cups Orange Juice. 

Make a syrup as for Lemon Ice; add fruit juices and grated rind; 
cool, strain and freeze. 

RASPBERRY ICE. I. 

4 Cups Water. 2 Cups Raspberry Juice. 

1% Cups Sugar. 2 Tablespoons Lemon Juice. 

Make a syrup as for Lemon Ice, cool, add lemon juice and raspberries 
mashed and squeezed through double cheese cloth; strain and freeze. 

If the natural color of the fruit is desired in the Ice a good brand of 
fruit coloring may be added before freezing ; or use 1 quart berries, 1 cup 
sugar, 1 cup water and lemon juice to taste. Allow water, sugar and berries 
to stand 2 hours to extract juice from berries and thoroughly disolve sugar ; 
mash and squeeze through double cheesecloth; add lemon juice to taste, and 
freeze. 

STRAWBERRY ICE. 

4 Cups Water. 2 Cups Strawberry Juice. 

11/2 Cups Sugar. 1 Tablespoon Lemon Juice. 

Prepare and freeze the same as Raspberry Ice. 

RASPBERRY AND CURRANT ICE. 

4 Cups Water. y^ Cup Raspberry Juice. 

1^ Cups Sugar. V/^ Cups Currant Juice. 

Prepare and freeze same as Raspberry Ice. 



COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 85 

PROTEINS— TISSUE BUILDING FOODS. 

MEAT— PREPARATION OF TENDER CUTS. 

Broiled meat is prepared from tender cuts of meat. Broiling and roasting 
are the two methods used in preparing tender cuts of meat. ]Meat only slightly 
cooked is more easily digested than meat cooked for a long time. Tough cuts 
may be forced througli a food chopper and then broiled or roasted, thereby fur- 
nishing easily digested meat at less cost. 



School Recipe. 
MATERIALS : 

Odd Numbers — 

Small Piece of Suet. 

1 Small Piece of Sirloin Steak. 

Even Numbers — 

2 Tablespoonfuls Ground Round Beef. 
i/g Tablespoonful Salt. 

Few Grains Pepper. 
1 Teaspoonful Milk. 



'iggiy I I - 1 iiiiw. lipiw—" 

BROILED STEAK WITH RICED POTATOES. 

When choosing meat for broiling select the tender pieces of meat. These 
are always the more expensive cuts of meat. Broiling is a quick process of 
cooking meat, and when properly done all the juices should be retained in 
the piece of meat. Cheaper cuts, which include the tough cuts, may be put 
through the food chopper and then broiled to advantage. In today's Lesson 
we are going to pan broil a tender piece of meat and a tough piece, after it 
has been finely chopped. 



86 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

PROTEINS— TISSUE BUILDING FOODS— MEAT. 

DEFINITION.— Meat is the name given to the flesh of animals used for 
food. Average Composition of Lean Beef. 

Proteins 18.36 

Gelatin 1.64 

Extractives 1.90 

Fat 90 

Mineral 1.30 

Water 75.90 

KINDS. 100.00 

BEEF is the meat of the steer or cow and is the most nutritious of animal 
foods. The best is obtained from a steer four or five years old. 

VEAL is the meat of a young calf killed vv^hen six or eight weeks old. 
The meat from a younger calf is unwholesome. Veal is less nutritious than 
beef and is not so easily digested. 

MUTTON is the name given to the meat of sheep. Mutton is considered 
almost as nutritious as beef. The fat of mutton is not as easily digested 
as the fat of beef. Good mutton comes from sheep, about 3 years old. 

LAMB is the name given to the meat of lambs. Lamb is less nutritious 
than mutton. Young lamb when killed from 6 to 8 weeks old is called 
spring lamb. Lamb 1 year old is called a yearling. 

POULTRY includes chickens, turkey, geese, duck, etc. 

GAME includes wild fowl and wild animals, as partridge, grouse, quails, 
•pigeons, venison, etc. SELECTION. 

INIeat should be uniform in color, the flesh should be firm and elastic to 
the touch. 

The flesh of beef should be of a bright red color, and intermingled with 
fat that is yellowish. 

Mutton should be dull red in color, and the fat white. 

Lamb and Veal should be lighter in color and the flesh less firm than in beef. 

Meat should be removed from the paper as soon as it comes from the 
market. 

Meat should be kept in a cool place. 

Always wipe meat with a damp cloth. 

METHODS OF COOKING. 

The usual methods of cooking are boiling, stewing, steaming, broiling, 
roasting, baking, frying, sauteing, braising and fricasseeing. 

BOILING: Cooking in boiling water. 

STEWING: Cooking for a long time below the boiling point. 

STEAMING: Cooking over the steam of boiling water. 

BROILING: Cooking over a glowing fire. 

BAKING: Cooking by the dry, confined heat of the oven. 

ROASTING: Cooldng before a glowing fire (as commonly used is the 
same as baking). 

FHYING: Cooking in hot fat deep enough to cover the article to be 
cooked. 

SAUTEING : Cooking in a small quantity of fat (commonly called frying) . 

BRAISING : A combination of stewing and baking. 

FRICASSEEING : A combination of frying and stewing. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



87 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL ODD 
NUMBERED GIRLS. 

NOTE: In today's Lesson, you should broil a piece of steak, while your 
partner broils a Hamburg Steak. 

Follow each paragraph closely. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

AVipe the piece of meat with a piece of wet 
cheesecloth. See FIGURE 1. 

Take out your small frying pan, put it over 
the fire. 

Rub it with a piece of suet. 

Put piece of meat into the pan. Count 10; turn ; 
count 10 again. See FIGURE 2. 

Repeat until it has been turned 6 times, then 
turn occasionally until meat is cooked as you like it. 

Season it with salt and pepper. 

Serve your partner and self. FIGURE 2. 




FIGURE 1. 




You are to WASH the dishes today according- to directions already 
learned. 




HAMBURG STEAK AND RICED POTATOES. 



88 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

NOTE BOOK WORK. 

To Broil Steak: 

Wipe meat with a damp cloth and trim off superfluous fat. Rub the wire 
broiler or frying pan with a little of the fat. Place meat in broiler, and 
broil over a clear fire, turning every 10 seconds for the first minute. After 
the first minute, turn occasionally until well cooked on both sides. May be 
broiled in a frying pan, turning often as directed above. 

TIME. — Steak an inch thick requires from 5 to 8 minutes. Serve with 
MAITRE D 'HOTEL BUTTER. 

Cream 3 tablespoons butter : add 1 teaspoon lemon juice gradually ; V2 tea- 
spoon salt, Vs teaspoon pepper and 1/2 tablespoon chopped parsley. 




BROILED STEAK AND BAKED TOMATOES. 

Cost of preparing Home Recipe of Broiled Steak: 

Materials : Cost. 

1 Slice Sirloin Cut 1 Inch Thick cts. 

3 Tablespoons Butter (if liked) cts. 



Total cts. 

Cost of preparing Hamburg Steak: 

Materials: Cost. 

1 Pound Lower Part of Round cts. 

Onion cts. 

V4 Cup Milk cts. 



Total cts. 



COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 



89 




FIGURE 1. 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 

NOTE: In today's Lesson you are to prepare Hamburg Steak, while 
your partner prepares Broiled Steak. Follow each paragraph closely. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Measure (see FIGURE 1), and mix the ground 
meat, salt, onion (if liked) and pepper in a bowl. 
Add the milk gradually and work it with a fork 
until thoroughly mixed. See FIGURE 2. 

Shape into 2 round small cakes. 

Take out frying pan and place it over the fire. 

Rub the bottom of it with a piece of suet or put 
in a little other fat. See FIGURE 3. 

Put in the cakes. Count 10, turn and count 10 
again. Repeat until they have been turned 6 times. 
Then turn occasionally until done as you like them. 
See FIGURE 4. 

Season with salt and pepper. 

Serve your partner and self. 




FIGURE 2. 



You are to WIPE the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 




■■IKj^^.. . 'M^'^ilM 




\W 


h 


> 


i. 



FIGURE 3. 



FIGURE 4. 



90 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

HOME RECIPES. 

METHODS OF COOKING MEAT. 

BROILING is cooking by direct exposure to heat, over hot coals or over 
a flame (gas Hame). 

Cooking with little or no fat in a hot frying pan is called "PAN-BROIL- 
ING." 

The object is to retain the juices. 

The method employed is to expose the surface of the meat to great heat, 
turning frequently. 

By turning frequently the surfaces are seared and the juices retained. 

EXPERIMENTS. 

Put a piece of meat into a wire broiler, hold over a flame 1 minute. Wh.it 
happens! The juice comes to the top, and when turned the juice drops into 
the fire. 

Put a piece of meat into a wire broiler, hold over a flame and count 10. 
Turn, count 10, and repeat. Raise broiler, count 10, and turn. Repeat. Cut 
and examine. 

The tender cuts of beef, mutton and lamb, and some kinds of game are 
used for broiling. 

Young chicken, small fish, lobsters and oysters may be broiled. 

Pork and veal should not be broiled, as they require long cooking. 

Dark meats, as beef, mutton, etc., may be cooked rare. 

Lamb, chicken, and light meats should be well done. 

The best cuts for broiling are steaks from the loin of beef (all between 
the first rib and rear end of hipbone, except sirloin, porterhouse) from the 
top of round and rump, and the rib or loin chops of mutton and laml). 

The meat should be cut "across the grain" from % inch to 1^4 inches 
thick. Dampers of the stove should be open during broiling, so that the 
smoke, etc., may be carried to the chimney. 

HAMBURG STEAK. 

Chop finely 1 pound lean raw beef: season highly with salt, pepper and a 
few drops of onion juice. Add 14 ^^V mi^k gradually, and shape into cakes. 
Heat a frying pan, rub with the fat of meat, and pan-broil the steaks, iwvn- 
ing cakes often during tke cooking. 

PAN-BROILED CHOPS. 

Heat the frying pan very hot. Trim the chops, remove the fat, and wij)e 
the chops. Put into frjnng pan. When 1 side is seared, sear the other, turn 
often the first minute. Cook from 6 to 8 minutes. Stand chops in the pan 
so the edges may be cooked. 

TIME TABLE FOR BROILING. 

Steak 1 inch thick 5 to 8 minutes 

Steak 11/2 inches tliick 7 to 12 minutes 

Chickens 20 to 30 minutes 

Squabs 10 to 12 minutes 



COOKIXO—BOOK TWO 91 



QUESTIONS. 

1. Under what food heading does meat come? 

2. Give average composition of beef. 

3. Name different kinds of meat. 

4. From what animal is each obtained? 

5. How can you tell whether meat is of good quality or fresh? 

6. Where should meat be kept? 

7. How would you clean a piece of meat? 

8. Name 10 dift'erent ways of preparing meat. 

9. Tell how to prepare meat according to the different methods. 

10. When is meat more easily digested — when slightly or thoroughly 
cooked? 

11. Name 3 ways of cooking meat. 

12. Name 3 wa.ys of cooking tough cuts. 

13. Name 2 ways of cooking tender cuts. 

14. What is usually served with meat? 

15. What are the chief values of meat? 



92 COOKIMJ—BOOK TWO 



SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

Meat is the flesh of animals used for food. The names given depend on 
the animal furnishing the meat. The tender cuts lie along the back between 
the shoulder and hip joints, while the tough cuts are around the limbs and 
where they are exercised more or less. The tender cuts are used for broiling 
and roasting, while the tough cuts are used for soups, stews and braised 
roasts. 

Meat is chiefly valuable for its content of protein, fat and mineral salts. 

The nitrogenous extractives in soups are stimulating, but have no food 
value. Meat is one of the high priced articles of food and, while it furnishes 
choice food, it should not be used in excess. Fish, eggs, milk, peas, beans, 
cereals and some nuts may be used as meat substitutes in the diet. Too much 
meat in the diet is apt to cause putrefaction in the intestines and also to pro- 
duce too much acid in the body. 

Green vegetables, fresh fruits and plenty of water will counteract this 
tendency. 

Pork may contain trichina, a tiny parasite, which, if taken into the human 
body may cause a very dreaded disease called trichinosis. Pork should always 
be cooked well done before eating in order to kill any trichina which it may 
contain. 

]\Ieat if allowed to spoil may contain poison developed by bacteria and 
cause ptomaine poisoning. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



93 



PROTEINS— TISSUE BUILDING FOODS. 

MEATS— PREPARATION OF TOUGH CUTS. 

Sonp stock is a stimulant and not a nutrient, as so many people believe. 
It may be changed into a nutrient by adding it to the slightly beaten white of 
egg, after which it must not be reheated, as it would coagulate the albumen. 
This lesson demonstrates the theory learned in the eg^ lessons, that cold water 
dissolves albumen, while heat coagulates it. 



MATERIALS: 



School Recipe. 



1 Small Piece of Meat. 

2 Small Pieces of Suet. 
1 Slice Turnip. 

1 Slice Carrot. 



1/2 Cup Water. 
V4 Teaspoon Salt. 
2 Pepper Corns. 
V9. Slice Onion. 




SOUP STOCK. 

The meat and vegetables should not be thrown away. They may be 
served in the soup or may be taken out and used for meat pie, croquettes, hash 
with rice or molded in rice. A large proportion of nourishment is still re- 
tained, although the juices and flavor have been extracted. If the meat and 
vegetables are combined with a sauce made with some of the stock, it makes 
a tastv dish. 



94 COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 

PROTEINS. TISSUE BUILDING FOODS. 
METHODS OF COOKING MEAT. 

OBJECT: 

1. To extract the juices, as in Soups, Broths and Beef Teas. 

2. To retain the juices, as in Broiling, Roasting, Boiling and Frying. 

3. Combination of both, as in Stewing and Braising, where part of the 
juices are retained and part extracted. 

EXPERIMENTS. 

1. Put a piece of beef (2 inches) into a glass half filled Avith cold water. 
Let stand 20 minutes. Does the water look just the same? 

2. Scrape or cut a piece of beef (2 inches) into small pieces. Put into a 
glass half filled with cold water. Compare with No. 1. 

3. Put a small piece of beef into a heavy glass. Pour on boiling water. 
What happens? 

What effect does COLD water have on albumen? 

What effect does BOILING water have on albumen? Compare this with 
the white of egg experiments. 

In today's Lesson our object is to extract the juices of meat. As we 
learned that cold water dissolves albumen, we will put the meat into cold 
water. If the meat is cut into small pieces more surface is exposed to the 
cold water. The meat should soak at least 1 hour in the cold water, after 
which it should be heated gradually to the simmering point, not above this 
temperature (rather below). 

The small gray particles that rise to the top are bits of albumen coagu- 
lated. When the albumen is coagulated and skimmed off the nourishing part 
is taken out of the soup. So soup made in this way is a stimulant but not a 
nutrient. 

If a nutrient is desired follow the recipe for bottled beef tea or cook the 
soup below 132 degrees Fahrenheit. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



95 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 




FIGURE 1. 



NOTE: In today's Lesson, yon are to prepare the vegetables, while your 
partner prepares the meat for the Soup. Follow each paragraph closely. 



See Recipe on Front Page. 

Cut the turnip and carrot into tiny cubes. To 
do this cut the carrot into slices; the slices into 
strips and the strips into cubes. See FIGURES 1, 
2 and 3. Soak in cold water. 

Measure the seasonings. 

Cut the onion into small pieces. 

Add turnip, carrot, onion and seasonings to the 
saucepan containing the meat after it has soaked 20 
minutes. 

If the soup is served clear eat the meat and 
vegetables separately. At home they may be served 
with rice or potatoes in a stew. 

Serve your partner and self with the soup. 




FIGURE 2. 



W^'^ 









FIGURE 3. 



You are to WIPE the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 



96 COOKING— BOOK T^VO 

NOTE BOOK WORK. 

Materials for Brown Soup Stock: 

2 Pounds Raw Meat. 

1 Pound Browned Meat and Bone (may be left-over). 

3 Quarts Cold Water. 

1 Stock Celery (may be omitted). 
Bit of Bay Leaf. 
Sprig of Parsley. 

4 Tablespoons Cubed Carrot. 
4 Tablespoons Cubed Turnip. 

4 Tablespoons Finely Chopped Onion. 
1 Tablespoon Salt. 
6 Pepper Corns. 




Working Directions: 

Cut the meat into small pieces ; put into a kettle having a tightly fitting 
cover. Cover the meat with the cold water. Saw the bone, add it to the 
meat and water ; add the browned meat. If only raw meat is used brown Vs 
of it in the suet in a frying pan. Add it to the raw meat and bone. Cover it 
tightly; let soak 1 hour, then simmer from 4 to 5 hours. The last hour of 
cooking add the vegetables and seasoning. After the vegetables are cooked, 
strain. Save the meat and vegetables to be used for meat pie, etc. 

Cost of preparing Home Recipe for Brown Soup Stock: 

Materials: Cost. 

2 Pounds ]\Ieat cts. 

1 Pound Browned Meat and Bone cts. 

Celery cts. 

Bay Leaf cts. 

Parsley cts. 

Carrot cts. 

Turnip cts. 

Onion cts. 

Salt cts. 

Pepper Corns cts. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



97 




WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 

NOTE: In today's Lesson you are to prepare the meat, while your part- 
ner prepares the vegetables for the soup. Follow each paragraph closely. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Wipe the meat with a damp piece of cloth ; cut 
it into 6 small pieces. See FIGURE 1. 

Put 4 pieces into the saucepan and cover them 
with cold water; let stand. 

Take out frying pan. Put into it the piece of 
suet ; add the remaining 2 pieces of meat and brown 
them thoroughly in the pan. See FIGURE 2. 

Pour a little of the water in which the meat is 
soaking into the frying pan. 

Pour all back into the saucepan. See FIGURE 3. 

Your partner will add the vegetables and sea- 
sonings. 

Put over a slow fire and let cook slowly about 
45 minutes. See FIGURE 4. 

If a clear soup is desired, strain out the meat and 
vegetables. Add a little slightly beaten white of 
egg; stir; boil 1 minute over the fire. Let it simmer 
5 minutes. Remove scum and strain through double 
thicknesses of cheesecloth. FIGURE 2. 



FIGURE 1. 





i 
> 


g 




t 


J 


^" 




■" 






FIGURE 3. 




M 

FIGURE 4. 



You are to WASH the dishes today according to directions already- 
learned. 



98 COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 

HOME RECIPES. 

HOW TO CLEAR SOUP. 

Wash an egg, break it ; beat the white slightly, crush the shell. Stir it 
into the strained soup. Place over the fire and stir constantly until boiling 
point is reached. Boil 2 minutes. Simmer 20 minutes. Remove the scum 
and strain through double thicknesses of cheesecloth placed over a strainer. 



HOW TO PREPARE BEEF TEA. 

1 Pound Lean Beef. 
1 Pint Cold Water. 
Salt to taste. 

Scrape or cut the meat into small pieces and put it with the cold water 
into a glass jar or top of a double boiler. Let stand 30 minutes. Place on a 
trivet in a kettle containing cold water, or over lower part of double boiler. 
Heat slowly. Let stand at a low temperature (130 degrees Fahrenheit) 2 or 3 
hours. Strain through a coarse strainer, and press the meat to obtain all the 
juices. Beef tea prepared below coagulating point of albumen is a nutrient. 



BROILED BEEF ESSENCE. 

Take one pound steak from the round cut % inch thick. AVipe meat, place 
in a heated broiler. Broil 3 minutes, put on a hot plate, cut into small pieces. 
Express the juice with a lemon squeezer, potato ricer or vegetable press, and 
turn into a cup. Set in a dish of hot water. 



NOTES. 

Vse all the trimmings in making soup stock. 

For white stock use veal or chicken. 

For brown stock use beef, part of it browned, and the vegetables browned. 

Stock without vegetables keeps best in hot weather. 



cooKiya—BooK nro 99 



QUESTIONS. 

1. What does cold water do to the albumen in meat? 

2. What does boiling water do to the albumen in meat? 

3. How would you extract the juices in the preparation of meat soups 1 

4. How would you prepare a nutrient meat soup or broth? 

5. How would you prepare it to make it only a stimulant? 

6. What animal furnishes veal? 

7. What animal furnishes lamb? 

8. AVhat animal furnishes mutton? 

9. What animal furnishes beef? 

10. How may the juices of meat be extracted? 

11. How may the juices of meat be retained ? 

12. How may the juices of meat be partially extracted and retained? 

13. How may soup meat be used? 

14. How may tough cuts of meat bo used? 

15. How mav tender cuts of meat be used? 



100 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

There are 3 kinds of soup : 

1. Meat Soups (Stock). 

2. Milk Soups (Cream). 

3. Plain Soups. 

The water in which meat has been cooked is called meat stock. This 
makes a stimulating but not a nutritious soup. 

The cream soups are highl.v nutritious, as they are made with milk. 

Soups made with succulent vegetables are rich in mineral salts and are 
valuable as appetizers and blood purifiers. If starchy vegetables are added, 
they contain nourishment. 

Peas and beans are two vegetables that contain the same kind of nour- 
ihsment as meat and, therefore, soups prepared from them may be used as 
meat substitutes. 

Odd bits of meat and bone left over from steaks and roasts, etc., may be 
used in making stock. 

Soup stocks may be divided into 2 classes: brown soup stock and white 
soup stock. In the former dark meat is used, part of which is browned in a 
little fat to give color and flavor to the stock. White soup stock is made from 
light meat, either veal or chicken. The meat is not browned in this, as a 
light color and delicate flavor are desired. Vegetables are added to both 
kinds of soup stock. Spices and herbs are also added. The meat is soaked in 
cold water and then gradually heated to the simmering point in order to draw 
out the maximum amount of juices. 

Stock is the basis of many kinds of soups — cooked meat and vegetables; 
vegetables alone, rice, tapioca or sago ; spaghetti or vermicelli may be cooked 
and served in the soup. 

Cream soups may be made by combining equal quantities of white stock 
and white sauce, and enough vegetable pulp and the water in which the vege- 
tables were cooked to give the flavor of the vegetables. 

Bouillon is usually made from lean beef, Vs or V2 of the meat broAvned, 
the soup delicately seasoned and cleared. 

Consonmie is usually made from beef, veal and fowl in combination. It 
is highly seasoned with vegetables, spices and sweet herbs and is always 
clarified. 



COOKING— BOOK T\\0 



101 



PROTEINS— TISSUE BUILDING FOODS. 

MEAT— PREPARATION OF TOUGH CUTS. 

There are so many different ways of preparing the tougher cuts of meat 
that the housewife has an endless number of recipes to choose from. The 
principal rule to remember in the cooking of these cuts is that long, slow, 
moist cooking will render the toughest cut of meat tender. 



MATERIALS: 



School Recipe. 

14 Pound Piece of Meat. 

1 Inch Cube Suet. 

1 Slice Carrot. 

1 Slice Turnip. 
14 Onion. 
1/2 Pound Potato. 




BEEF A LA MODE. 

Beef a la Mode is another example of a way to prepare an inexpensive 
cut of meat so it will look attractive, taste good, and give nourishment. 

This method, we have learned, is called "BRAISING." 

The meat should be dredged with flour, sprinkled with seasoning and 
browned on all sides in hot fat, then half covered with hot water, and allowed 
to cook slowly until the meat is tender. 



102 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 







1. Neck. 

2. Chuck. 

3. Eibs. 

4. Shoulder. 

5. Fore Shank. 

6. Brisket. 

7. Cross Ribs. 

8. Plate. 

9. Navel. 

10. Loin. 

11. Flank. 

12. Rump. 

13. Round. 

14. Second C*nt Round. 

15. Hind Shank. 

United States Department of Agriculture. 




COOKING— BOOK TWO 



103 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 

NOTE: In today's Lesson you are to prepare the vegetables, while your 
partner prepares the meat. Follow each paragraph closely. 



See Recipe on Front Page. 

Cut the carrot into strips lengthwise. 

Cut the turnip into strips lengthwise. See FIG- 
URE 1. 

Leave the onion just as it is. 




FIGURE 1. 



Cut the potato into 14 '^^^'^i slices. See FIG- 
URE 2. 

Soak all the vegetables (except the onion) in 
a bowl of cold water. 

When your partner has prepared the meat add 
tlie salt, pepper and vegetables to the saucepan con- 
taining the browned meat and water and cook all 
slowly until the meat and vegetables are tender. 

Thicken the gravy with tlu' flour and water 
mixed until perfectly smooth. See FIGURE 3. 

You are to WASH the dishes today according to 
directions already learned. 



K _ 



FIGURE 2. 




FIGURE 3. 



104 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



Beef a la Mode : 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 



2 Pounds Beef. 

3 Tablespoonsful Flour. 
Water. 

1 Turnip (cut in strips). 

1 Carrot (cut in strips). 

2 Onions Sliced. 

4 Potatoes (cut in slices) 
Salt and Pepper. 




Working Directions: 

Insert 12 large strips of salt pork fat or pieces of suet into a 4 pound 
piece of round beef. Tie with a string. Season with salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour. Put a piece of suet in a hot pan, brown the meat on all sides 
in this. Put into a kettle with vegetables and water to half cover beef, 
cover closely and cook slowly 4 or 5 hours in oven or on top of range. 

POT ROAST. 

When beef is similarly prepared (without the strips of fat and vege- 
tables) and cooked in thickened water, it is called Pot Roast. 

Cost of preparing Home Eecipe of Beef a la IMode : 

Materials : Cost. 

2 Pounds Beef cts. 

3 Tablespoonfuls Flour cts. 

1 Turnip cts. 

1 Carrot cts. 

2 Onions cts. 

4 Potatoes cts. 

Salt and Pepper cts. 

Total cts. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



105 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 

NOTE: In today's Lesson you are to prepare the Meat, Avliile your 
partner prepares the Vegetables. Follow each paragraph closely. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Wipe the meat. See FIGURE 1. Gash it in 
4 places. 

Cut the suet into 6 thin strips. 

Lay 4 of the suet strips in the gashes. See FIG- 
URE 2. 

Tie securely with a string. 

Dredge the piece of meat with four, salt and 
pepper. FIGURE 1. 

Put the piece of meat into the frying pan Avith 
the remaining suet. See FIGURE 3. 

Brown the meat on all sides in the frjdng pan. 

Put the browned piece of meat into a saucepan. 
Pour % cup of l)oiling water into the frying pan ; 
add this to the saucepan containing the meat. See 
FIGURE 4. 

Cover saucepan : cook slowly. See FIGURE 5. 

Pass it to your partner. 

You are to WIPE the dishes today according to directions already learned. 





FIGURE 2. 






FIGURE 3. 



FIGURE 4. 



FIGURE 5. 



106 COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 

HOME RECIPES. 

CHICKEN STEW. 

Dress, clean and cut up a fowl, and put into a stew pan. Cover with boil- 
ing water and cook gently until tender; after the first hour of cooking add 
2 teaspoons salt, Vs teaspoon i^epper, bit of bay leaf, sprig of parsley, and a 
slice of onion, if liked. Thicken stock with flour mixed with cold water. 

Curried Chicken may be made by adding 1 tablespoon curry to the sauce. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Put stewed chicken in a baking dish, cover with short cake dough, omitting 
sugar, and bake until done. 

BOILED LAMB OR MUTTON. 

Wipe meat, cover with boiling water, simmer three hours. Serve with 
caper sauce, boiled turnips or cauliflow^er or spinach and potatoes. 

LAMB, CREOLE STYLE. 

2 tablespoons butter. 

1 tablespoon finely chopped onion. 

1 tal)lespoon finely chopped green pepper. 

1 cup broth. 
V2 cup toniato puree. 
V2 teaspoon salt. 

Cook first three ingredients, add broth, tomato and seasonings. Reheat 
boiled lamb in sauce. Serve with boiled rice. 

BLANQUETTE OF VEAL. 

Wipe meat. Cut veal into small pieces^ Put into a stew pan, cover with 
water, add carrots cut into- strips, onion cut into eighths, sprigs of parsley and 
cloves, bit of bay leaf and pepper corns tied in a bit of cheese cloth. Cover 
and let simmer until meat is tender. Thicken stock by adding 1 cup of thick 
white sauce. A yolk of egg and 1 tablespoon lemon juice may be added just 
before serving. 

VEAL STEW. 

Veal may ho stcAved according to recipe for Stewed riiicken. 

VEAL PIE. 

Veal pie may be made according to recipe for Chicken Pie. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 107 



QUESTIONS. 

1. Name the cuts of meat in a beet" creature. 

2. Name four tougli cuts. 

3. Name three tender cuts. 

4. Name two ways of prei)aring tough cuts. 

5. Name two ways of prei)aring tender cuts. 

6. Give the directions for roasting meat. 

7. Why intense heat at first? 

8. Why reduce heat hiter? 

9. How wouki you prepare the Gravy? 

10. From what animals are meats derived? 

11. What are the chief food values of meat? 

12. How may you judge good meat? 

13. What are the prices of the different cuts of meat? 

14. About liow much meat for bi-aizing is neetled to serve six people? 

15. Give general rules for braizing meat. 



108 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

METHODS OF COOKING MEAT. 

ROASTING is cooking by exposure to direct action of dry heat on a 
spit or in an oven. 

The object of roasting is to retain the juices and develop a special 
flavor. The tender cuts of meat should be selected for roasting— the choicest 
cuts being the sirloin, rump, rib, etc., of beef; the loin, leg and shoulder 
of lamb, mutton or veal : the chine and rib of pork. Chicken, turkeys, geese, 
ducks, etc., are used for roasting. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

Wipe the meat with a damp cloth. Dredge with flour, pepper and salt 
on all sides. Put pieces of fat on the meat and in the pan (melted fat may 
be used). Place meat on a rack in the pan. Put into a hot oven. The heat 
of the oven should be intense at first until the surfaces are seared (about 
10 minutes) and then the heat should be reduced and water added to cover 
the bottom of pan. 

The meat should either be covered closely or basted frequently with 
equal quantities of fat drippings and water. After the last basting, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Place meat on a hot platter and garnish. 

GRAVY. 

Pour fat from pan, allow 2 tablespoonfuls of fat to 3 tablespoonfuls flour 
for each cup of gravy. Put fat in the pan, add the flour and stir over a hot 
fire until well browned, add the boiling water or stock, boil 3 minutes, season 
to taste with salt and pepper and strain. 

TIME TABLE FOR ROASTING. 

Beef, round '. per lb. 12 to 15 min. 

Beef, ribs (well done) per lb. 12 to 15 min. 

Beef, ribs (rare) per lb. 8 to 10 min. 

Mutton leg (well done) per lb. 15, min. 

Mutton leg (rare) per lb. 10 min. 

Mutton loin (rare) per lb. 8 min. 

Mutton shoulder (stufl'ed) per lb. 15 min. 

Lamb (well done) per lb. 20 min. 

Veal (well done) per lb. 25 min. 

Pork (well done) per lb. 30 min. 

Chicken per lb. 15 min. 

Goose per lb. 18 to 20 min. 

8 Lb. Turkev About 2 hrs. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



lOU 



PROTEINS— TISSUE BUILDING FOODS. 

MEAT— PREPARATION OF VEAL. 

Veal is the meat of a young' calf killed when 6 or 8 weeks old. All imma- 
ture meat is less nutritious and more difficult of digestion than mature meat. 
No matter how veal is prepared it should l)e thoroughly cooked to make it 
palatable and digestible. 



MATERIALS : 



SAUCE : 



V2 



School Recipe. 

1 Thin Piece of Veal (2x3 Inches). 

3 Tablespoons Bread Crumbs. 
Teaspoon Butter or Veal Fat. 
Few Drops Onion Juice. 
Few Grains Celery Salt. 

Vs Teaspoon of Salt. 
Few Grains of Pepper. 

4 Tablespoons Milk. 
1 Teaspoon Flour. 

1 Teaspoon Water. 




VEAL BIRD ON TOAST. 

The above recipe is a good way of preparing veal cut from the fleshy part 
of the round or shoulder. When the stuffing is delicately seasoned and the 
birds cooked until tender the^^ taste very much like stuffed birds. iMeat goes 
a great deal farther when prepared in this way, and therefore offers an 
economical way of preparing veal. Veal should always be thoroughly cooked. 



no COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 

BEEF. 
Name of Cut How to Prepare 

LOIN, including all sirloin cuts Roast 

Broil 

RUMP Fairly good for broiling. 

Back of Loin Roast 

Back of Loin Stew 

Back of Loin Pot Roast 

ROUND Braise 

Beef a la Mode 

Beef Juice 

Beef Tea 

Fairly good for roasting and broiling 

PRIME RIBS Fine for roasting 

BLADE Fairly good for roasting 

CHUCK Braise 



.Pot Roast 
Stew 



NECK Soup 

Stew 

BRISKET Corn or Boil 

CROSS RIBS Pot Roast or Inferior Steak 

PLATE Corn or Boil 

NAVEL Corn or Boil 

FLANK Stew 

Roll and Braise 



SHIN Soup 

SKIRT STEAK Stew 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



111 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 

NOTE: 111 today's Lesson you are to prepare the meat, while your part- 
ner prepares the stuffing. Follow each paragraph closely. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

]\leasure and heat the milk in a saucepan over 
a slow tire. 

Mix the flour and water, stir until smooth ; add 
a little of the hot milk to it; stir. (See FIGURE 1.) 
Pour back into the saucepan and cook until thick- 
ened. Add salt. Turn off the fire. 

Pound the thin piece of meat with the end of 
the rolling pin. See FIGURE 2. 

Spread the meat with the stuffing prepared by 
your partner. Roll up (see FIGURE 3) and tie with 
a string, being careful not to leave any opening to 
let out the stuffing. See FIGURE 4. 

Sprinkle the roll with flour, salt and pepper. 

Pass it to your partner. 

Cook birds until tender when tried with a 

fork. Serve your partner and self with a half-bird 
and sauce. 




FIGURE 1. 




FIGURE 2. 




1^-"^ 






iMk 






: 


^ 











FIGURE 3. 



FIGURE 4. 



You are to WIPE the dishes today according to directions already- 
learned. 



312 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 



6 Thin Slices of Veal (about 3x4 inches). 

2 Cups Soft Bread Crumbs. 

2 Tablespoons Melted Butter or Melted Fat. 

2 Tablespoons Chopped Parsley (may be omitted). 
V2 Teaspoon Onion Juice (if liked). 

2 Tablespoons Finely Cut Celery, or 
Ys Teaspoon Celery Salt. 
Vs Teaspoon Pepper. 
y2 Teaspoon Salt. 
14 Cup Hot Water. 




VEAL BIRDS ON TOAST. 
Working- Directions: 

Wipe thin slices of veal cut from the leg or shoulder. Pound the meat 
on both sides, and cut into pieces about 3x4 inches. Spread pieces with 
STUFFING, roll and tie, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with Hour. 
Brown in hot butter or melted fat in a frying pan. Put in stew pan, cover 
with a thin white sauce and cook slowly until tender. Serve, on small circular 
or squar.e pieces of toast, cover with the sauce, and garnish with parsley. The 
trimmings may be used for making a white stock, which may be added to the 
sauce or stui^ng. 

STUFFING. 

2 Cups Soft Bread Crumbs. 2 Teaspoons Celery (cut) 

2 Tablespoons Melted Butter. or 

2 Tablespoons Chopped Parsley. Vs Teaspoon Celery Salt. 

1/2 Teaspoon Onion Juice (if liked), i^ Teaspoon Salt. 

V4 Cup Hot Water. Vs Teaspoon Pepper. 

Cost of Preparing Home Recipe of Veal Birds : 

Materials : Cost. 

6 Slices Veal cts. 

2 Cups Bread Crumbs cts. 

2 Tablespoons Butter or Fat cts. 

2 Tablespoons Parsley cts. 

V2 Teaspoon Onion Juice cts. 

2 Tablespoons Celery cts. 

Pepper and Salt cts. 



COOKING— BOOK T^yO 



113 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 




FIGURE 1. 




FIGURE 2. 



NOTE: In today's Lesson you are to prepare the Stuffing-, while your 
partner prepares the Meat. Follow each paragraph closely. 



See Recipe on Front Page. 

Prepare the crumbs by rubbing two pieces of 
stale bread together. See FIGURE 1. 

Measure the crumbs; add the melted butter, 
onion juice (by grating the onion over the crumbs) 
(see FIGURE 2), celery salt, salt and pepper. 

Mix with a fork and taste. 

Pass it to your partner. 

Measure 1 tablespoon of suet, put into your fry- 
ing pan. See FIGURE 3. Place over the fire. 

Put the veal bird or roll into it. Brown on all 
sides. Put into the large saucepan containing all 
the birds. ]\Iark yours with a piece of paper put 
onto the end of a toothpick. 

Pour your partner's white sauce into your fry- 
ing pan (see FIGURE 4), then pour contents into 
saucepan containing the birds. 




FIGURE 3. 




FIGURE 4. 



You are to WASH the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 



114 COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 

HOME RECIPES. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

2 Tablespoons Flour. ^4 Teaspoon Salt. 

2 Tablespoons Water. F'ew Drains Pepper. 

11/2 Cups I\Iilk. 

Heat the milk in a double boiler or in a saucepan over a low fire. Mix 
the flour and water until smooth, add more cold water until thin enough to 
pour. Pour into the hot milk while stirring it constantly until mixture is 
thickened. 

METHODS OF COOKING MEATS. 

BRAIZING is the cooking of meat with a small amount of water in the 
oven in a tightly covered pan or kettle. It is a combination of stewing and 
baking meat. The meat should be cooked in an oven at a low temperature 
for a long- time ; by so doing tough pieces of meat become tender. 



ROLLED FLANK OF BEEF OR ROLLED ROUND OF BEEF. 

Flank Steak, or 1 Pound of Thinly Cut Round Steak. 
2 or 3 Small Pieces Suet. 

1 Onion. 

V4 Cup Carrot, Cubed. 

2 Cups Stock or AVater. 

Wipe the meat, trim the edges, pound on both sides, spread with stuffing, 
roll and tie. Sprinkle the roll with salt and pepper, dredge with flour and 
brown on all sides in hot drippings, and lay it on the onion and carrot in a 
pan with the suet on top. Pour the water or stock into the pan. Cover tightly 
and cook slowly in the oven or on top of the stove. 

For round steak, cook slowly, covered, for 1 hour, or more in moderate 
oven. 

For flank steak, cook shiwly, covered foi- 3 hours or more, or until tender. 

Serve with brown gravy made by thickening the liquid in the pan. 

Individual rolls may be made. 

The above is sometimes called Mock Duck. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 115 



QUESTIONS. 

1. From what animal do we get veal? 

2. How should veal be cooked? 

3. What cut would you select for veal birds? Why' 

4. How would you prepare veal birds? 

5. Could beef be used in the same way? 

6. What is meant by Braizing? 

7. Under what food principle do meats come? 

8. What is their function in the body? 

9. Name two light meats. 

10. Name two dark meats. 

11. How should immature meat be cooked? 

12. How may mature meat be cooked? 

13. What is meant by white stock? 

14. What is meant by brown stock? 

15. HoAv would you remove a course? 

16. How would you pass a dish? 

17. How would you refill the glasses with water? 



116 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

As previously stated, the tender cuts are located along the back bone, be- 
tween the shoulder and hip joints. These are less in number than the tougher 
cuts and therefore command higher prices. While the tender cuts are the 
choicest and require less cooking than the tougher cuts, they do not rank 
higher in nutritive value. If the tougher cuts are cooked a long time to 
render them tender, they require longer time for complete digestion. This is 
no tax on the digestive organs of a healthy person. If digestion is Aveak, 
the tougher cuts may be forced through a food chopper and then cooked 
slightly, when they will be even more easily digested than the larger, tender 
pieces of meat. The fine subdivision of any food renders it more easy of di- 
gestion, because the digestive fluids can attack every particle of the food 
more easily and change it to the necessary soluble state for absorption. 

On a foregoing page will be found a diagram of the beef creature, show- 
ing the different cuts of meat. On another page will be found the best methods 
for their preparation. 

It is a good plan to visit a local meat market and become acquainted 
with the different cuts — and report on the observations and conclusions drawn 
from such a visit. 

Most of the internal organs of the beef creature are also used for food, 
and as a rule sell at a lower price than even the cheaper cuts ; the tongue is 
boiled and served hot or cold ; the heart is stuffed and baked in a slow oven ; 
the kidneys are used in stews ; the inner lining of the cow 's stomach, called 
tripe, is fried ; the liver is fried and served with bacon ; the thymus gland of 
the calf, called sweet breads, is boiled and served in white sauce as a great 
delicacy, and even the brains are utilized as food, although not very generally 
liked. 

Below are a few directions for preparing some of these organs that you 
may wish to use at home : 

BOILED TONGUE. 

Wash thoroughly and if salty soak several hours in cold water. Put in 
kettle, cover with cold water and bring slowly to boiling point. Boil five 
minutes, remove scum and cook at a lower temperature until tender. Cool 
slightly in water in which it was cooked, then take from water and remove 
skin. It is served hot as meat dish for dinner ; sliced cold for luncheon ; or it 
may be ground, mixed with salad dressing and nuts and used for filling for 
sandwiches. 

BAKED CALF'S HEART. 

Calf's heart is preferable to beef heart, because it is more tender and has 
a more delicate flavor. 

Wash the heart, remove veins, arteries and clotted blood. Stuff with a 
good poultry dressing and sew. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, roll in flour, 
and brown in hot fat. Place in small deep baking pan, half cover it with 
boiling water, cover closely and bake slowly two hours, basting every fifteen 
minutes. Add more water if necessary. Remove heart from pan, and make 
a brown sauce of the liquor in the pan. Season to taste with salt and pepper 
and pour around the heart before serving. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



117 



PROTEINS— TISSUE BUILDING FOODS. 

PREPARATION OF FISH. 

Fish is regarded as a most valuable meat substitute. It contains the same 
kind of nutrients and at a lower cost. Stale fish may be poisonous, so great 
care should be exercised in its selection. 



MATERIALS: 

1 Piece of Fish. 

V/2 Teaspoons Salt. 

11/2 Teaspoons Vinegar. 

1 Cup Water. 



School Recipe. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

1 Teaspoon Butter. 

1 Teaspoon Flour. 
14 Cup Fish Stock. 
1/2 Yolk. 

1 Teaspoon Lemon Juice. 




BOILED FISH WITH POTATO BALLS. 

Individual Serve. 

Fish is the animal food next in importance to meat. One should be 
very careful in selecting fish to make sure that it is strictly fresh. 

Steaming, baking, and broiling are the three methods that are consid- 
ered the best ways of preparing fish, because these methods retain tlie juices. 

In today's lesson, we are going to lioil fish. In boiling, p;u't of the 
juices are extracted but if a sauce is made from tlie stock and it is served 
with the fish we lose none of tlie nourisliment. 

When salt and vinegar have been added to the water, it is called salted 
and acidulated water. The water gives flavor and the vinegar makes the 
flesh firm. 



118 COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 

FISH— TISSUE BUILDING FOODS. 

FISH is the animal food next in importance to meat. The fish flesh is 
less stimulating and nourishing than meat but it is considered more easily 
digested. 

Fish is classified into the white-fleshed and red-fl.eshed. 

In the white-fleshed fish, most of the oil is located around the liver, while 
in the red-fleshed the oil is distributed throughout the flesh. 

White-fleshed Fish:— EX.— Whitefish, Haddock, Cod, Flounder, Smelt, 
Perch, Pickerel, Sun-fish, Croppies, etc. 

Red-fleshed Fish: — EX. — Salmon, Shad, Lake Trout, Butter F'ish, Her- 
ring, etc. 

The white-fleshed fish is more easily digested than the red-fleshed, there- 
fore, it is selected for invalids, convalescents or those suffering from weak 
digestion. 

Fish should be eaten while fresh and in season. Stale fish is poisonous. 

HOW TO SELECT FRESH FISH. 

Select a fish that has bright eyes and gills, shiny scales, firm flesh and is 
free from a disagreeable odor. 

HOW TO CLEAN FISH. 

Remove the scales by drawing a knife over the fish, beginning at the 
tail and M'orking toward the head. 

Wipe the fish inside and out with a cloth, wet in cold salted water, then 
Avipe with a clean dry cloth kept for the purpose. Head and tail may or 
may not be taken off, according to the manner of cooking. 

HOW TO SKIN A FISH. 

Rub fingers with salt so that the fish may be held without slipping. Re- 
move fins along the back with a sharp knife. Cut off a narrow strip of skin 
the entire length of the back. Loosen the skin from the bony part of gills and 
draw it off very carefully, one side at a time. 

HOW TO BONE A FISH. 

Clean, then begin at the tail and run a sharp knife under flesh close 
to the back, working toward the head. Turn and repeat on the other side. 
Pick out any small bones that may remain. 

METHODS OF COOKING FISH. 

Broiling, baking and steaming are the best methods of cooking fish. 

Fish suitable for broiling are — Split mackerel, whitefish, cod, shad, trout, 
etc., sliced halil)ut and salmon, Avhite smelts and small fish. 

Fish suitable for baking whole are— Whitefish. cod. haddock, small sal- 
mon, shad. etc. 

Fish suitable for boiling are — Salmon, halibut, cod, haddock, trout, etc. 

Fish suitable for frying are — The white-fleshed fish. 



COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 



119 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL ODD 
NUMBERED GIRLS. 

NOTE: 111 today's Lesson, you will prepare the fish, and your partner 
will prepare the sauce. Follow each paragraph closely. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Put the salt, vinegar and Avater into your saucepan. Place it over the fire. 

Wipe the piece of fish. 

Put it very carefully into the saucepan containing boiling salted acidu- 
lated water, using your wire whisk beater. See FIGURE 1. 

Let it cook gently until flesh will leave the bone when tried with a fork. 
Take out with the wira whisk beater. See FIGURE 2. 

While the fish is cooking, make a lemon boat by cutting a lemon in half 
and scalloping edges with a knife or pair of scissors; remove the inside and 
serve the sauce in the lemon boat. 

Put onto a liot plate. 

Serve your partner and self. 

You are to WASH the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 





FIGURE 1. 



FIGURE 2. 



120 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 

1 fish. 

2 teaspoons salt. 

2 tablespoons vinegar to each quart water. 




BOILED FISH. 

Working Directions: 

Clean and wipe the fish ; tie in a cheese cloth to hold the fish together and 
to prevent the scum from adhering to the fish. Place the fish on a rack or 
frying basket to keep the shape and to make it easier to remove from the 
water. Cook gently in boiling salted acidulated water to cover the fish, using 
2 teaspoons salt and 2 tablespoons vinegar to each quart of water. The salt 
gives flavor and the vinegar or lemon juice keeps the flesh white. Allow about 
15 minutes to the pound. The fish is cooked when the flesh is firm and sepa- 
rates easily from the bone. 

Remove from water, take off th( cheese cloth, put on a hot platter, and 
serve with Hollandaise Sauce. 

Cost of Preparing Boiled Fish: 

Materials Cost 

Fish cts. 

2 teaspoons salt cts. 

2 tablespoons vinegar cts. 



FRIED FISH. 

Clean and wipe the fisli. Season with salt and pepper, roll in cornmeal, 
flour or crumbs, dip in egg and crumbs again. Cook in deep fat; drain on 
soft paper. Serve on a hot dish. 



COOKING— BOOK T^yO 



121 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL EVEN 
NUMBERED GIRLS. 

NOTE: In today's Lesson, you are to prepare the sauce, while your 
partner prepares the fish. Follow each paragraph closely. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

]\Ieasure and melt the butter in 3'our saucepan, 
and add the Hour. See FIGURE 1. 



Stir while adding the fish stock (4 tablespoons 
of the water in which the fish is cooking). 

Boil 5 minutes. 




FIGURE 1. 



Measure the half yolk into your custard cup. 

Remove saucepan from the fire ; pour some of 
the hot mixture gradually into the yolk in the cus- 
tard cup while stirring constantly. See FIGURE 2. 

Pour back into saucepan containing hot mix- 
ture, add the lemon juice and seasonings to taste. 
Do not reheat. 



Serve your partner and self with the sauce. 
Po'vir it over the cooked fish. 




FIGURE 2. 



You are to WIPE the dishes today, according to directions already 
learned. 



122 COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 



HOME RECIPES. 

FISH STUFFING. 

1 Clip crumbs (bread or crackers, or half and half). 
1/4 cup melted butter. Ys teaspoon pepper. 

1/4 teaspoon salt. Ys teaspoon celery salt. 

{Few drops onion .juice, if liked.) V4 cup water. 

Mix ingredients in order given. If a dry filling is desired, the water 
may l)e omitted. Three tablespoons catsup, chopped parsley, capers, pickles, 
or oysters may be added. 

DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE. 
2 cups boiling water. 4 tablespoons flour. V2 teaspoon salt. 

1/2 cup butter. Yg teaspoon pepper. 

Melt 1/2 the butter, add the flour. Stir while adding the boiling water 
gradually. Boil 5 minutes. Add seasoning and remaining butter. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Add V2 cup capers, drained, to drawn butter sauce. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Add tAvo ''hard cooked'' eggs finely chopped to drawn butter sauce. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

. To serve with salmon. 

6 tablespoons grated horseradish. Y2 teaspoon sugar. 

2 tablespoons of vinegar. V2 cup thick slightly sour cream. 

Yi teaspoon salt. Few drops cayenne. 

Mix ingTedients except cream. Beat cream until stiff. Combine, beat 
until thoroughly mixed and serve. 

HOLLAJIDAISE SAUCE 1. 

2 tablespoons butter. 1 cup fish stock. 

2 tablespoons flour. 2 yolks. 

Salt and pepper. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

]\lelt the butter, add the flour. Stir while gradually adding the fish 
stock (water in which the fish has been cooked). Boil 6 minutes. Remove 
fi'om fire, pour some of the mixture on to the slightly beaten yolks, pour 
this back into the sauce. Beat and add the lemon juice and seasonings. Do 
not reheat. HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 2. 

Y2 tablespoon vinegar or 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Y2 cup butter. V2 cup hot water. 

Yolks 2 eggs. Ys teaspoon paprika. 

Yi teaspoon salt. 
Cream the butter, add the yolks and beat thoroughly. Then add the 
lemon .juice, salt, paprika, and hot water. Cook in a double boiler, stirring 
constantly until like thick cream. Remove from fire and beat with a Dover 
egg beater about 5 minutes. BROILED FISH. 

Clean and Avipe the fish : remove head and tail and split down the back. 
If a thick fish is used, cut in slices. Crease a wire broilei'. lay in the fish and 
cook over a clear fire, cooking the flesh side first. Turn it and cook the 
skin until crisp. Sliced fish should be turned often Avhile lu'oiling. Fish is 
cooked when flesh is firm. 



COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 123 



QUESTIONS. 

1. What is fish? 

2. How does fish compare with meat in nutritive value? 

3. Classify fish. 

4. Which is the more easily digested? 

5. Name three different methods of preparing fish. 

6. What is meant by boiling salted acidulated water? 

7. Of what use is it as a boiling medium ? 

8. What kinds of fish would you select for boiling, broiling, baking, etc. 

9. Compare cost of fish with that of meat. 

10. Where is the oil in red-fieshed fish? 

11. Where is the oil in white-fieshed fish? 

12. Which kind would you select for frying? 

13. Which kind would you select for broiling? 

14. How are fish caught? 

15. How are they kept? 



124 COOKING— BOOK TWO 



SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

Because tish spoils so easily, several means are used for its preservation. 

1. Cold storage. 

2. Smoking and salting — smoked salmon, herring and finnan haddie are 
favorites. Salted cod is commonly used. 

3. Preserving in oil — sardines and small herring are put up in oil and 
are considered as delicacies. 

4. Canning of fresh fish and shell fish — canned salmon is the most com- 
mon, although cod and Tuna fish are now being used extensively for canning 
purposes. Oysters, lobsters, shrimps, clams and scallops are also canned and 
used extensively. 

"To reduce the cost of living, eat more salmon, especially of the cheaper 
grades, and less meat." This is the advice of Dr. Hugh M. Smith, federal 
commissioner of fisheries, in a statement enumerating the important factors m 
favor of salmon as an article of food, as compared with meat. He asserts that 
not only is canned salmon cheaper than meats, but will keep indefinitely if 
unopened, while the latter spoil quickly. 

To prove his assertion that salmon is cheaper than meats, Dr. Smith com- 
pares the average retail prices of these in Washington on February 10, 1914. 
One pound of canned red salmon of the best quality will cost about 18 cents, 
he says, while the same quantity of bone, muscle, blood and brain building 
material and body fuel in other foods would cost: Eggs, strictly fresh (at 
34c per dozen). 36c; steak, sirloin (at 271/20 per lb.), 33c; mutton, leg (at 19c 
per lb.), 32c; chicken, average (at 25c per lb.), 2iy2c; ham, smoked (at I8V2C 
per lb.), I3I/2C; and pink salmon (canned, at 9c per can), 12^C. 



COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 125 

PROTEINS— TISSUE BUILDING FOODS. 

SHELL FISH— PREPARATION OF OYSTERS. 

Shell fish, as a class, do not rank high as nutrients. To some people, they 
cause disagreeable digestive disturbances. The oyster is the most important of 
the shell fish, so far as its popularity and digestibility is concerned. 





School Recipe. 


MATERIALS: 






4 Oysters. 




1 Tablespoon Oyster Liquid and Water. 




41/2 Tablespoons Crumbs. 




2 Teaspoons Melted Butter. 




1/5 Teaspoon Salt. 




Few Grains Pepper. 




SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 



One quart of oysters is equal to one quart of milk in the amount of nour- 
ishment contained. So milk is a less expensive food. 

Oysters are considered a good food. They give variety to the diet. They 
are easily digested when properly cooked. They should not be cooked too loll^' 
nor at too high a temperature. 



126 COOKL\G—BOOK TWO 

SHELL FISH. 

The shell fish commonly used are oysters, clams and scallops. Lobster, 
shrimps and crabs, although crustaceans, are usually called shell fish. 

An Oyster has two shells. The one on which the oyster lies is deeper and 
founder than the one that covers it. The oyster has two strong muscles, one 
to open the shell to take in food and water, and the other to close it. 

The body is composed of the liver (containing glycogen, animal starch) 
surrounded by fluted layers called gills. 

Oysters are 5 years old before suitable for eating. They are in season from 
September to May. They have about the same composition as milk. They 
are nutritious and of easy digestibility. 

According to Stutzer 14 o.ysters contain the same amount of nourishment 
as an egg, 223 as 1 pound of beef. One quart of oysters is equal to 1 quart of 
milk in the amount of nourishment contained. Raw oj^sters are more easily 
digested than cooked, but cooking destroys dangerous germs that may be 
present. 

The protein in oysters is very delicate so they should not be cooked too 
long nor at too high a temperature. 

HOW TO OPEN OYSTERS. 

Force a thin, sharp knife under the back end of the shell that covers the 
oyster (the flatter of the two) and push forward until it cuts the muscle. Re- 
move the top shell and separate the oyster from the undershell. 

HOW TO CLEAN OYSTERS. 

Drain off the liquid of the oyster through a wire strainer placed over a 
bowl. Pour cold water over the oysters. With the fingers examine each 
oyster separately to see that no bits of shell are left clinging to them. 

Clams rank next to oysters in food value. Little neck clams are served 
at dinner when Blue Points are not in season. At the beach clams are some- 
times cooked with seaweed over the fire. This is called a Clam bake. Clam 
chowder, which is a stew, is a typical New England dish. 

Scallops. The central muscle forms the edible part. They are in season 
from October to April. 

LOBSTER— CRABS— SHRIMPS. 

Their flesh is similar in composition to that of other fish, but is tough 
and difficult to digest. 

Lobster. The portions of lobster not edible are the lungs, stomach and 
intestinal vein. 

Crabs are in season during the spring and summer. 

Shrimps are in season from May to October. Always remove the intes- 
tinal vein from the shrimp. It looks like a thread along the entire length of 
the shrimp. 



COOK I \G— HOOK T WO 



127 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL ODD 
NUMBERED GIRLS. 

NOTE: In today's Lesson you are to prepare the crumbs, while your 
partner prepares the oysters. Follow each paragraph closely. 



See Recipe on Front Page. 

Roll the crackers to make 4^/2 tablespoons of 
crumbs. See FIGURE 1. Add the melted butter: 
mix with a fork. 

Butter the custard cup. See FIGURE 2. 

Divide buttered crumbs into three parts. See 
FIGURE 3. Put 11/2 tablespoons of crumbs (one 
])art) into the baking' dish. 

Your partner will cover them with 2 oysters 
and li({uor. 




FIGURE 1. 







FIGURE 2. 



Cover oysters witli Vs '^f the crumbs. Your part- 
ner wull add the second layer of oysters. 

CoA'er the whole with the remaining third of 
))uttered crumbs. Pass to your partner. 

Serve your partner and self. 




FIGURE 3. 



You are to WIPE the dishes today according- to directions already 
learned. 



128 COOKING—BOOK TWO 

NOTE BOOK WORK. 

MATERIALS: 

1 Pint Oysters. 
Vs ^-^^P Oyster Liquor or Milk. 
11/2 Cups Cracker Crumbs or Stale Bread Crumbs. 
1/3 Cup Melted Butter. 

1 Teaspoon Salt, 
l/g Teaspoon Pepper. 




SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Working Directions: 

Butter the Baking Dish : 

Mix the crumbs and butter. Divide crumbs into three parts. Cover bot- 
tom of baking dish with Vs of tlie buttered crumbs. Put V2 of oysters on 
top of crumbs ; cover oysters with one-half of liquor. Cover with layer of 
crumbs; repeat wdth oysters and liquor. Cover the w^hole with the remaining 
Vs of crumbs. Bake 30 minutes in a hot oven. Never allow more than two 
layers of oysters for scalloped o^^sters. If three layers are used the middle 
layer will be underdone, while the other two are properly cooked. 

Cost of preparing Home Recipe of Scalloped Oysters: 

Materials : Cost. 

1 Pint Oysters cts. 

Milk cts. 

Cracker Crumbs cts. 

Butter cts. 

Salt cts. 

Pepper cts. 

Total cts. 



COOKlSd—BOOK T\YO 



129 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 



NOTE: In today's Lesson you are to prepare the Oysters while your 
partner prepares the Crumbs. Follow each paragraph closely. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 



Pick over oysters. See that there are no bits 
of shell attached. 



Dip oysters quickly into water to rinse them. 




FIGURE 1. 



Arrange 2 oysters on the layer of crumbs pre- 
pared by your partner; cover with V:: tablesj^oon 
liquor and water. Season with salt and popper. See 
FIGURE 1. 

Your partner will cover this with a layer of 
crumbs. 

Arrange remaining 2 oysters on top of the sec- 
ond layer of crumbs. 




FIGURE 2. 



Moisten with V^ tablespoon of liquor ; sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. 



Your partner will cover this with the remaining 
1/3 of crumbs. See FIGURE 2. 

Put on a baking sheet in the oven to bake 15 
minutes or until browned. See FIGURE 3. 




FIGURE 3. 



You are to WASH the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 



130 COOKING—BOOK T^VO 



HOME RECIPES. 



OYSTERS ON THE HALF SHELL. 

Serve the oysters on the deep halves of the shell, allowing 6 to each 
person. Arrange shells on crushed ice on plates small ends toward the cen- 
ter. Place V4 of a lemon in the middle of each plate. 

OYSTER STEW. 

1 Pint Oysters. V2 Tablespoon Salt. 

1 Quart Scalded Milk. % Teaspoon Pepper. 

3 Tablespoons Butter. Celery Salt, if liked. 

Clean the oysters ; heat the milk to boiling point. Add salt, pepper and 
oysters to the scalded milk. Heat to boiling point, reduce heat slightly and 
cook until edges of oysters begin to curl. Add the butter and serve. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

1 Cup Oysters. 
1 Cup White Sauce. 
Vs Teaspoon Celery Salt. 

Clean the oysters, add the oysters to the hot white sauce and cook until 
edges begin to curl. Serve on toast in timbale cases, patty shells, etc. 

FRLED OYSTERS. 

Clean the oysters, lay them on a clean cloth and pat them gently to dry 
them. Season with salt and pepper. Dip the oysters in cracker or bread 
crumbs, egg and crumbs again. Fry in deep hot fat, drain on soft paper. 
Serve on a platter and garnish with parsley. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 131 



QUESTIONS. 

1. What kind of fish is an oyster? 

2. Do oysters contain a great deal of nourishment? 

3. Compare the nutritive value of oysters with a well known food. 
How do they compare? 

4. How should oysters be cooked? 

5. Name 3 different ways of serving oysters. 

6. Name 2 shell foods. 

7. How would you prepare lobsters? 

8. How would you prepare shrimp? 

9. Are shell fish as a class considered easy of digestion? 

10. Give 2 ways of preparing oysters. 

11. How are fish preserved? 

12. How may canned fish be cooked? 

13. How can you tell fresh fish from stale? 

14. HoAv would you cook crappies? 

15. How would vou cook whitefish? 



132 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

Oysters live in salt water. In the so-called oyster beds of the sea, where 
they are cultivated, there is very little danger of bacteria infection. Some- 
times, however, they are grown near sewerage outlets where human wastes 
are emptied, and sometimes oysters taken from salt water are placed in a 
body of nearly fresh water and left for two or three days. The oysters 
absorb a great deal of water and during this time SAvell a great deal. This 
process is called "floating," and many people prefer ''floated" oysters to 
those taken directly from the salt water. If the fresh water is pure, there 
is no objection, but oftentimes this floating' is carried on in streams carrying 
wastes from sewers. The oysters absorb the contaminated water, and may 
be infected with typhoid bacilli. If these are served raw, of course, there 
is danger. Cooking will kill the bacteria and render them harmless. 

Raw oysters are served on the half shell with lemon juice or horseradish 
as directed on your home recipe page. They are also served with a cocktail 
sauce in cocktail glasses. They are served as the first course for dinner or 
luncheon when served on the half shell or in a cocktail. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

8 Small Raw Oysters. 

1 Tablespoon Tomato Catsup. 

V2 Tablespoon Vinegar or Lemon Juice. 

2 Drops Tobasco Sauce. Salt to Taste. 
1 Teaspoon Celery, Finely Chopped. 

^2 Teaspoon Worcestershire Sauce. 

Mix ingredients, chill thoroughly, and serve in cocktail glasses, or cases 
made from green peppers placed on a bed of crushed ice. 

Oysters served in brown sauce in timbale cases or patty cases make a 
nice dish to prepare in the chafing dish for luncheon or late in the evening. 

OYSTERS IN BROWN SAUCE. 

1 Pint Oysters. 
14 Cup Butter. 
V4 Cup Flour. 
1 Cup Oyster Liquor. 
V2 Cup Brown Stock. 
1 Teaspoon Worcestershire Sauce. 
1/8 Teaspoon Pepper. 

Wash and cook oysters in their own liquor until the edges curl, drain and 
keep warm, reserving the liquid. Brown butter a chestnut brown, add flour 
and brown it; then add oyster liquor, milk and seasonings. Cook, stirring 
constantly until it thickens. Add the oysters and when they are heated 
through serve on wafers or in timbale or patty cases. 



COOKING— BOOK T^yo 133 

PROTEINS— TISSUE BUILDING FOODS. 

PREPARATION OF GELATINE DESSERTS. 

Gelatine is obtained from the bones, skin and connective tissues of 
animals. If this is needed for these parts in the animals, it is also needed 
in the human body. Gelatine is regarded as valuable in our diet, although 
its nutrient content is not high. Its principal use in cookery is in desserts 
and aspic jellies. 



MATERIALS; 



School Recipe. 

1 Rounding Teaspoon Gelatine. 

1 Tablespoon Cold Water. 
14 Cup Boiling Water. 

2 Tablespoons Sugar. 

1 Tablespoon Lemon Juice. 
V2 Teaspoon Lemon Rind. 
5 Slices Banana. 
4 Thin Slices of Figs. 




LEMON JELLY WITH FRUIT. 

Gelatine is called a proteid sparer. Gelatine contains nitrogen — but, 
alone, it cannot suppl}^ the body with all the nitrogen it needs. It can replace 
part of the protein in the diet and perform its duties in the body. It is 
therefore a valuable food. 



134 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

GELATINE. 

A PROTEIN SPARER. 

Gelatine is obtained from cleaned bones, skin and connective tissues of 
animals. 

These are cooked in boiling water for a long time, thereby extracting 
the gelatinous substances. 

Commercial Gelatine is prepared by treating the connective tissues, etc., 
with a weak solution of caustic lye kept at a moderate temperature 10 days, 
then raised to a higher temperature, the lye drained off, the tissues, etc., 
rinsed in clear water, purified with sulphur and again thoroughly washed. 
The tissues are drained thoroughly, melted over steam and the liquid gelatine 
strained off and poured into thin layers to cool. Gelatine is also made from 
fish bones. The purest form of gelatine, called Isinglass, is made from the 
air bladder of the sturgeon. 

Gelatine is highly nitrogenous. It is composed of carbon, hydrogen, oxy- 
gen and nitrogen and so has the composition of a proteid food, but is not a 
tissue builder. It is called a protein sparer. Its power as a protein sparer 
is about twice that of a carbohydrate. 

Gelatine is very easily digested. It is digested by the pepsin of the pan- 
creatic juices in the stomach and by the trypsin of the pancreatic juices in 
the; smaller intestines. 

Gelatine is not soluble in cold water. 

Gelatine is soluble in hot water. 

Gelatine should not be cooked in boiling liquid, as it will not solidify. 

GENERAL RULES. 

Use 2 tablespoons granulated gelatine to 3^2 cups liquid. 

Soak gelatine in cold water 20 minutes. Dissolve gelatine in boiling 
water by pouring the boiling water onto the soaked (hydrated) gelatine — or 
gelatine may be dissolved by placing the soaked gelatine over boiling water. 
Do not stir it much while it is dissolving. 

Be sure that all the gelatine is dissolved before adding fruit juices, then 
add fruit juices, sugar and a few grains of salt, strain through a fine cloth, 
put in a cool place or on ice to harden. 

Eemove gelatine from mold by putting mold into a pan of warm water 
until the jelly loosens. Place inverted on the serving dish. 

MEAT JELLIES. 

Gelatine may be combined with cooked, sliced or ground seasoned meat. 
Ex. — Jellied veal or chicken. If a knuckle of veal or a fowl is cooked long 
enough and the stock reduced to about % cup from 4 pounds of meat and bone 
there is enough gelatine extracted to mold the loaf without adding extra 
gelatine. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



135 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 

NOTE: In today's Lesson you are to prepare the Gelatine, while your 
partner prepares the fruit and mold. Follow each paragraph closely. 



See Recipe on Front Page. 

Measure the gelatine into your mixing bowl. 
See FIGURE 1. Add the cold water. See FIG- 
URE 2. 

Let stand 5 minutes. 




FIGURE 1. 



In the meantime, heat water to boiling point in 
your saucepan. Measure V^ cupful of it. Add this 
to the soaked gelatine. 

Measure and add the sugar. 

Your partner will add the lemon juice and rind. 






¥?gr 



FIGURE 2. 



When gelatine mixture is set and firm, dip it 
quickly into a pan of hot water (just for a second). 

Turn upside down onto a serving dish. See 
FIGURE 3. Shake and it will come out in a mold. 

Serve your partner and self. 




FIGURE 3. 



You are to WASH the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 



136 



COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 



LEMON JELLY. 



Materials : 



2 Tablespoor.,^ Granulated Gelatine. 

1/2 Cup Cold Y/ater. 
21/2 Cups Boiling- Water. 



1 Cup Sugar. 
^ Cup Lemon Juice. 
Rind 1 Lemon. 







Working Directions: 

Soak gelatine 20 minutes in cold water, then dissolve in boiling water. 

Add sugar, the lemon juice and rind, strain into a mold and chill. 

Beating the lemon jelly, while it is jelly-like, with a Dover egg beater 
will make it white and fluffy. It may be served as a Snow Pudding. 



PUDDING A LA MACEDOINE. 

Prepare lemon jelly mixture. Place a mold in a pan of ice water, pour in 
mixture V2 "ich deep. When firm, decorate with fruit. Cover fruit with 
some of the lemon jelly mixture. When firm, add more fruit and mixture. 
Repeat until all is used, each time allowing mixture to stiffen before fruit is 
added. Oranges, bananas, dates, figs, etc., may be used. 

NOTE: The coloring tablet found in the gelatine packages may be used 
to color the jelly mixtures. 

Cost of preparing Home Recipe of Lemon Jelly with Fruit : 

Materials : Cost. 

2 Tablespoons Gelatine cts. 

1 Cup Sugar cts. 

V2 Cup Lemon Juice cts. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



137 




FIGURE 1. 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 

NOTE: In today's Lesson you are to prepare the fruit while your part- 
ner prepares the gelatine mixture. Follow each paragraph closel3^ 



See Recipe on Front Page. 

Measure and add the lemon juice and rind to 
your partner's mixture. 

Cut the fig into very narrow strips. See FIG- 
URE L 

Take out your custard cup. 

Rinse it in cold water. 

Add 2 tablespoons of your partner's gelatine 
mixture to it. Put it into your dishpan containing 
ice cold water. 

Cut 1 slice of banana — put it in the center of 
the liquid in the custard cup. 



Radiate the 4 strips of figs. 

Let stand until firm. 

Add 3 tablespoons of gelatine mixture. 

Dip the 4 slices of bananas so the slices face the sides of the custard cup. 

Let stand until firm. 

Pour remaining gelatine mixture into it. 

Let stand until firm. 

Pass it to your partner. 

You are to WIPE the dishes today according" to directions already 
learned. 




FIGURE 2. 



188 COOKING -BOOK TWO 

HOME RECIPES. 

SNOW PUDDING 1. 

Materials : 

2 Tablespoons Granulated Gelatine. 
1/2 Cup Cold Water. 
2^2 Cups Boiling Water. 
1 Cup Sugar. 
^2 Cup Lemon Juice. 
Rind 1 Lemon. 

Soak gelatine 20 minutes in cold water, then dissolve in boiling water. 

Add sugar, the lemon juice and rind, strain into a mold and chill. 

When jellylike, beat the lemon jelly with a Dover egg beater until white 
and fluffy. 

SNOW PUDDING 2. 

May be made by preparing V2 the recipe of Lemon Jelly. When thick, 
beat with a Dover Qgg beater until frothy, add the stiffly beaten whites of 3 
eggs and continue beating until stiff enough to hold its shape. Serve this 
with a Custard Sauce. 

CUSTARD SAUCE. 

11/^ Cups Scalded Milk. I/2 Teaspoon Vanilla, 

i/s Teaspoon Salt. Yolk 3 Eggs. 

14 Cup Sugar. 

Beat the yolks slightly, add sugar and salt; stir continually until mixture 
thickens and a coating is. formed on the spoon ; chill and flavor. If cooked 
too long, custard will curdle. Should this happen, beating the mixture with 
the Dover q^^ beater will restore the smooth consistency. When eggs are 
scarce, use 2 yolks and ^/^ tablespoon cornstarch. 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING. 

Prepare mixture as for Snow Pudding, adding one-half the amount of 
sugar, omitting the lemon juice, but adding 1 teaspoon vanilla and the beaten 
whites of three eggs. Beat vigorously. Serve with whipped cream to which 
crushed and sweetened fruit has been added. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 139 



QUESTIONS. 

1. How would 3-on class gelatine? 

2. From what is gelatine obtained? 

3. HoAv is it prepared ? 

4. What food value has gelatine? 

5. How would you hydrate gelatine? 

6. How is gelatine dissolved? 

7. V/hy is it necessary to dissolve it? 

8. Name 3 recipes where gelatine is 1 of the ingredients. 

9. What is gelatine called? 

10. For what is it principally used in cookery? 

11. What function has it in the body? 

12. What are proteins? 

13. What is their chief office in the body? 

14. Give general rules for broiling meat. 

15. Give general rules for roasting meat. 



140 COOKING— BOOK TWO 



SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

RECIPES FOR MEAT JELLIES. 

JELLIED CHICKEN. 

Jellied chicken may be made by omitting the thickening in the recipe for 
chicken stew and boiling the stock down to % cupful. The meat should be 
removed when it is ready to fall from the bones. Decorate bottom of a mold 
with hard cooked eggs and parsley, fill mold with the meat freed from skin 
and bone. Season stock highly and pour it on the chicken. Put in a cold 
place to mold; a little dissolved gelatine may be added to the stock. 

ASPIC JELLY. 

1 quart white or brown stock, highly seasoned and clarified, 4 tablespoon- 
fuls gelatine soaked in % cup cold water, juice 1 lemon. 

Add soaked gelatine and lemon juice to the hot stock. 

Taste and season, if necessary. Mold and chill. 

Stuffed tomatoes, stuffed olives, boned birds, stuffed chicken or salmon 
may be molded in aspic jelly mixture. Finely chopped olives, almonds and 
celery may be used as stuffing for the tomatoes. 



COOKIXG—BOOh' TWO 



141 



PROTEIN— TISSUE BUILDING FOODS. 

PREPARATION OF GELATINE DESSERTS. 

An invalid always appreciates variety in the diet, if permissible. Gela- 
tine desserts are usually allowed, and, if the physician permits its use, any 
number of attractive combinations may be made with eggs or eggs and milk. 



School Recipe. 



MATERIALS: 




Lemon Sponge. 


1 


Teaspoon Gelatine. 


2 


Tablespoons Cold Water. 


2 


Tablespoons Sugar. 


1 


Yolk. 


1 


White. 


1 


Tablespoon Lemon Juice. 


V2 


Teaspoon Lemon Rind. 



LEMON SPONGE. 

The above is a de- 
licious, nourishing pud- 
ding. It is easil}^ di- 
gested and contains 
even more nourishment 
than an eggnog. The 
eggs are raw and beat- 
en so that the digestive 
juices can reach each 
particle easily — the gel- 
atine holds it in shape 
and the lemon gives 
flavor. The whipped 
cream furnishes fat in 
a desirable form. 



Whipped Cream: 

14 Cup Thick Cream. 

1 Teaspoon Sugar. 

14 Teaspoon Vanilla. 




142 COOKlXO—IiOOK T^yO 

DINNER. 

A SIMPLE DINNER may consist of 2 courses, meat or fish with vege- 
tables and a dessert. 

A Dinner may consist of 3 courses — soup, meat or fish with vegetables, 
and a dessert. 

A Dinner may have more courses, as soup with rolls, croutons or baki-d 
crackers; fish, meat Avith vegetables, salad, dessert, coffee. 

Arrange the Cloths, Knives and Forks as given in General Directions, 
Book 1. 

Place at the right of each knife a soupspoon and a teaspoon, or more if 
needed. 

A carving knife and fork should be placed at the right of the host, who 
usually serves the meat, and the tablespoons beside the dish to be served. 

Bread sticks or dinner bread is placed in the folds of the napkin. 

If the serving is done by the host or hostess, the hostess should serve the 
soup, vegetables, salad, dessert and tea or coffee; the host, meat or fish. 

With a waitress, the hostess serves the soup, salad, dessert and coffee ; the 
host, meat or fish ; while the waitress passes the plates as food is served, and 
also serves the vegetables and entrees. 

Place a ladle with the handle at the right, beside the tureen, before the 
hostess, and hot soup plates directly in front, almost touching tureen, to pre- 
vent dripping on the cloth. 

In serving, soup should be dipped away from, not toward the person. The 
same rule holds good in eating it. 

After the cover has been removed from the tureen, the waitress should 
stand at the left of the one who is serving, hold the tray in the left hand, and 
with the right place the filled plate on the tray. Take it to the right of each 
person, and, with the right hand, set it in front close to the edge of the table. 

After the first course, remove the soup tureen and the plates, one at a time, 
on a tray, or by taking one in each hand. Never pile one on the other. 

Arrange the meat and the plates for the second course. 

If anj^thing is served with the course, the dish containing it should be 
placed on the tray, with the handle of the serving spoon or fork toward the 
person. Pass it to the left side of each. 

In removing a course, take large dishes or platters first ; then the plates 
and knives and forks. 

The carving knife and fork should be placed side by side on the platter. 

The serving tray should be covered with the napkin. 

Before the dessert is placed on the table, remove all dishes except the des- 
sert spoons and glasses. Remove crumbs. 

Place the dessert in front of the hostess, serving spoon or fork at her 
right, plates and saucers in front or at the left. 



COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 



143 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 




FIGURE 1. 



NOTE: In today's Lesson you are to break the egg and beat the white of 
egg for the pudding and prepare the whipped cream, while your partner pre- 
pares the gelatine mixture. Follow each paragraph closely. 



See Recipe on Front Page. 

Break the egg, see FIGURE 1, slipping the white 
on a plate and the yolk in a bowl. See FIGURE 2. 

Pass the yolk to your partner. 

Measure the lemon juice and add it to your part- 
ner's gelatine mixture, when it is dissolved. 

Beat the white of egg on a plate with a wire 
whisk beater. See FIGURE 3. Pass it -to your part- 
ner. 

]\Ieasure the cream into your mixing bowl, put 
bowl into your dishpan, containing cold water. 
Beat cream with Dover egg beater until stiff, not too 
long, for then it will separate — add sugar and 
vanilla. 

Serve it with the ]iudding. 




FIGURE 2. 




FIGURE 3. 



You are to WIPE the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 



144 



COOKING— BOOK Til O 



Materials : 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 
LEMON PUDDING. 

IV2 Tablespoons Granulated Gelatine. 
1/2 Cup Cold Water. 
y^ Cup Sugar. 
4 Yolks. 
4 Whites. 

Juice and rind of 1 lemon. 





LEMON SPONGE OR PUDDING WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 
Working Directions: 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Dissolve over boiling water. Beat 
yolks until thick and lemon-colored. Add sugar gradually, beat thoroughly ; 
add the dissolved gelatine mixed with the lemon juice and rind. Stir until it 
begins to thicken, then fold in the stiffly beaten whites. Place in a mold and 
chill. Serve with sweetened and flavored whipped cream. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

3 Tablespoons Sugar. 1 Cup Thick Cream. 

V2 Teaspoon Vanilla. 

Pour the cream into a bowl and set in a pan of ice water. Whip with a 
wire whisk or Dover egg beater nntil stifip enough to hold its shape. Add sugar 
and vanilla. Do not beat the cream too long. 

Cost of preparing Home Recipe of Lemon Sponge and Whipped Cream: 

Materials : Cost. 

IV2 Tablespoons Granulated Gelatine cts. 

V2 Cup Sugar cts. 

4 Eggs cts. 

1 Lemon , cts. 

1 Cup Cream cts. 



COOK I XG— BOOK 'nVO 



145 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 

EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 



NOTE: In today's Lesson you are to prepare the gelatine mixture while 
your partner breaks the egg and beats the white of egg for the pudding and 
prepares the whipped cream. Follow each paragraph closely. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 



Measure the gelatine into 3^our custard cup, add 
the cold water, let stand 5 minutes. 

Beat the yolk (passed to you by your partner) 
Avith a Dover egg beater until lemon colored. See 
FIGURE 1. 




FIGURE 1. 



Put soaked gelatine into your saucepan, which 
should be I/3 full of boiling water. Cover with sauce- 
pan cover, let stand until gelatine is dissolved. Stir 
once or twice to mix gelatine with the water — add 
sugar to egg yolk, continue beating ; stir in the lemon 
juice and rind. 

"When gelatine is dissolved, add it to the yolk, 
sugar and lemon mixture — stir until it begins to 
thicken — then fold in the stiffly beaten whites, see 
FIGURE 2, passed to you by your partner. Pour 
into custard cup, which has been rinsed in cold water. 
Let stand until stiff. Turn out on a dish. See FIG- 
URE 3. Pile on whipped cream and serve your 
partner and self. 




FIGURE 2. 




FIGURE 3. 



You are to WASH the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 



146 COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 

HOME RECIPES. 

SPAI^ISH CREAM. 

11/2 Tablespoons Granulated Gelatiue. 

3 Cups Milk. 

3 Egg Yolks. 
1/2 Cup Sugar. 
14 Teaspoon Salt. 

3 Egg Whites. 

1 Teaspoon Yanilla. 

Reserve ^4 C'^^P milk to soak gelatine. Soald the remaining 2% cups milk. 
Separate the eggs, lieat the yolks, add the sugar and saJt : stir in the scalded 
milk slowly and cook in double boiler until custard thickens, stirring all the 
time. Remove from fire, add the soaked gelatine and stir until dissolved, then 
strain. Beat the whites until stift', fold into mixture. Flavor and turn into 
cold wet mold. Chill. 



ORANGE CHARLOTTE. 

2y2 Tablespoons Granulated Gelatine. 
1/2 Cup Cold Water. 
^ Cup Boiling Water. 
1 Cup Sugar. 

1 Cup Orange Juice. 
Grated rind of 1 orange. 

2 Tablespoons Lemon Juice. 
Whip from 3 cups cream. 

Soak gelatine in cold water. Dissolve in boiling water. Add sugar, fruit 
juice and rind. Set bowl in ice water, stir constantly until it begins to thicken, 
then fold in whip from cream, adding V2 at a time. Line a mold Avith orange 
sections. Fill mold and chill. 

Strawberries, raspberries, pineapple, etc., may be used in place of the 
orange. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 147 



QUESTIONS. 

1. Compare the nutritive value of the puddings in this and the previous 
lesson. 

2. Which would you choose for dessert after a light meal? 

3. Which would you choose to serve as a dessert after a heavy meal? 

4. Are these desserts suitable for invalids? 

5. What happens to cream if it is beaten too long? 

6. Is cream a valuable food! 

7. Why? Give your reasons. 

8. What does the Spanish Cream recipe remind you of? 

9. How would you place the knives, forks and spoons on the table? 

10. How would you place the china and glasses? 

11. What is meant by protein? 

12. Name 5 protein foods. 

13. How should foods containing albumen be cooked? 

14. Where are proteins digested? 

15. Into what are they changed preparatory to absorption. 

NOTE : It would be well for you to prepare a paper of 300 to 500 words 
stating what things you have learned thus far which you think will be of value 
to you in your work at home. 



148 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

MENUS. 

I. 

Halibut Timbales 
Egg Sauce Riced Potatoes 

Hot Cross Buns — Butter 
Fruit Salad Cheese Crackers 

For Halibut Timbales use beef loaf recipe, substituting ground halibut 
for meat. 

II. 

Fish Souffle. 

Creole Sauce Boiled Potatoes 

Bread Butter 

Peach Shortcake. 

For fish souffle use bread omelet recipe, substituting fish flakes for bread 

and bake mixture in the oven. 

Ill 

Scalloped Fish Flakes. 
Cabbage Salad French Fried Potatoes 

Rolls 
Rice and Date Pudding with Grape Sauce 
For scalloped fish flakes use scalloped egg and ham recipe in Book I, sub- 
stituting fish flakes for the ham. 

IV. 

Meat Loaf 
Brown Gravy Franconia Potatoes 

Scalloped Tomatoes 
Snow Pudding^Whipped Cream 

V. 

Beef Soup (Bouillon) 

Rolls ' Pickles 

Cottage Pie 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange — Chocolate Sauce 

For cottage pie use meat pie recipe, covering meat with mashed potato 

instead of biscuit dough. 

VI. 

Tomato Soup 

Imperial Sticks — Relish 

Pan Broiled Flank Steak 

Creamed Carrots — Riced Potatoes 

Apricot Tapioca Pudding with Cream 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



149 



FATS— HEAT AND ENERGY STOKERS. 
PREPARATION OF BACON. 

In the liver of all animals we find glycogen or animal sugar stored. This 
is the only part of meat that contains any form of carbohydrate. It is usually 
served with bacon to give additional flavor and supply the fat in which it is 
lacking. 



MATERIALS: 



School Recip,e. 

1 Small Piece of Liver. 

2 Slices of Bacan. 

1 Tablespoon Bacon Fat. 
V2 Tablespoon Flour. 
V4 Cup Boiling- Water. 
1/8 Teaspoon Salt. 
Few Grains Pepper. 




SMALL PORTION OF LIVER AND BACON. 

Calf's liver is more delicate than beef's liver. Liver and bacon is a pop- 
ular breakfast dish and provides an acceptable change in our meat dishes. 
It may also be served for luncheon or dinner. 



body 



Next to l)utter, bacon furnishes the most Avholesome kind of fat for the 



150 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

FATS AND OILS— HEAT GIVERS. 

Source. Fats and oils are obtained from the animal and vegetable king- 
dom. They contain 3 substances — Stearin (solid), Palmitin (semi-solid), 
Olein (liquid). 

Uses in the Body. The fats and oils store up heat and energy ; they also 
act as a lubricant. 

In the Animal Kingdom fat is found in layers under the skin, around the 
kidneys and other vital organs, about the joints, between the vertebrae, in all 
the tissues, in the blood stream and around the nerves. The source of fat in 
the body is to a certain extent from the fat of food, also from decomposition 
of the proteids and a large proportion of carbohydrates. 

Fat is the Most Valuable to poorly nourished people, convalescents, con- 
sumptives, diabetics, nervous people, growing children and those who have 
poor blood (anemics). 

Examples of Animal Fats are fat of meats, as in bone-marrow, suet, fat of 
fish, fat of milk and eggs. Among the animal fats, cream and butter are the 
most important on account of their easy assimilation. 

Examples of Vegetable Fats are the fats found in seeds, fruits and nuts. 

Cream, butter, olive oil, bacon, cornmeal, oatmeal, nuts, and chocolate 
are foods valuable for the fat they contain. 

When a recipe calls for melted shortening, melt fat over hot water. 

To add butter to soups and sauces after they are taken off the fire is con- 
sidered the best way. Overheated butter loses some of its flavor and is 
difficult to digest. 

Never throw away pieces of fat ; try them out and save them for cooking 
purposes. 



COOKL\G—BOOK TWO 



151 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 

LIVER AND BACON. 

NOTE: J 11 today's Lesson you arc to prepare the bacon while your 
partner prepares the liver. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Remove rind of bacon. 

Put fr^'ing pan over the fire with boiling" hot 
water, add slices and cook until water evaporates, 
continue cooking:; brown bacon on both sides, until 
crisp. (See illustration, FIGURE 1.) 

Give your partner one tablespoon of the fat. 

Drain on soft paper. (See FIGURE 2.) 




FIGURE 1. 



Arrange the cooked liver on a plate, pour over it the gravy, place the 
bacon slices near the edge of plate. 

Serve your i^artner and self. 




FIGURE 2. 



You are to WASH the dishes today according- to directions already 
learned. 



152 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 

1 Lb. Liver. 

6 Slices Bacon. 

2 Tablespoons Bacon Fat. 
4 Tablespoons Flour. 

2 Cups Boiling Water. 




BAKED LIVER AND BACON. 

Brown 6 slices of bacon in frying pan. Cut 1 lb. of liver into i^'i^^^ 
slices. Cover with boiling water, let stand 5 minutes to^draw out the blood; 
drain, remove the veins and skin. Wipe the liver, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and cook in hot bacon fat until brown on both sides, turning occa- 
sionally. Make a gravy, using 2 tablespoons of the bacon fat and 4 table- 
spoons of flour. Brown the two in a pan, add 2 cups of boiling water grad- 
ually and 'stir until smooth, season with salt and pepper. Put the browned 
slices of liver into the gravy and cook slowly 15 minutes. Put liver and gravy 
on a hot dish, arrange the crisp bacon around the edge and serve. 

The liver may be baked. Gash a large piece of liver in 6 places. Insert 
strips of salt pork fat. Season with salt and pepper. Dredge with flour. Bake 
slowly 2 hours. See illustration. 



Materials : Cost. 

1 Lb. Liver cts. 

6 Slices Bacon cts. 

4 Tablespoons Flour cts. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



153 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 

NOTE: In today's Lesson you are to prepare the liver and your partner 
will prepare the bacon. 



See Recipe on Front Page. 



Pour boiling water over the pieces of liver (see 
FIGURE 1) and let stand 3 minutes to draw out the 
blood. 




FIGURE 1. 



Drain, remove skin and veins. 



Measure 1 tablespoon of the bacon fat in your 
frying pan. Cook liver in the hot bacon fat until 
brown on both sides. 



Remove liver; add the flour to the fat in the 
pan (see FIGURE 2) ; brown the two; add gradually 
the boiling water, stirring until perfectly smooth, 
while adding it to the fat (see FIGURE 3). Put in 
the broAvned liver slices and cook very slowly in the 
gravy 15 minutes. Pass it to your partner. 



If the gravy is too thick, add enough hot water 
to it to make it the consistency of thick cream. 



You are to WIPE the dishes today according 
to directions already learned. 




FIGURE 2. 




FIGURE 3. 



154 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



HOME RECIPES. 

BACON 1. 

Take off the rind and cut bacon into thin slices ; put in frying pan ; cover 
with boiling Avater (about ^4 inch deep). Cook in a hot frying jjan, turning 
slices frequently until crisp and brown. Drain on soft paper. 

BACON 2. 

Put thin slices of bacon in a broiler placed over a dripping pan and bake 
in a hot oven until bacon is crisp. Turn once during baking. Drain on soft 
paper. Oysters may be wrapped in thin slices of bacon and baked in this way. 

BACON OMELET. 

Cook an omelet in bacon fat instead of butter and serve garnished with 
crisp bacon slices. 




BAKED BEANS AND BROWN BREAD. 

1 Quart Beans. 
V4 Pound Salt Fat Pork. 

1 Teaspoon Salt. 

1 Teaspoon ]\Iustard. ■ 
14 Cup Molasses. 

Pick over and wash pea beans ; cover with cold water and soak over night. 
In the morning, drain, cover with fresh Avater and cook slowly below boiling 
point, until soft, then drain. Put l/4-inch slices of salt pork fat in bottom of 
an earthen bean-pot or covered crock. Mix the salt, mustard and molasses 
in a cup; fill the cup with boiling water, and pour the mixture over the 
beans. Add enough more boiling Avater to cover the beans. Cover bean-pot, 
and bake in a moderate oven 8 hours. If baked a long time they become 
dark and have a rich flavor. One cup butter may be used instead of the pork. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 155 



QUESTIONS. 

1. Name 3 fats. 

2. Give chief office of fat in the body. 

3. For whom is fat a most valuable food? 

4. -What fats are the most easily digested? 

5. From what do we obtain fats and oils? 

6. Name some sources of vegetable fats. 

7. How would you melt fat for use in batters and doughs? 

8. When would you add butter to soups and sauces? Why? 

9. How can you economize on fat in the household? 

10. What is meant by shortening? 

11. How would you cook bacon ? 

12. How would you cook liver? 

13. How would you make a brown sauce? 

14. How would you make a white sauce? 

15. How would you thicken soups? 



156 COOKING— BOOK TWO 



SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

Fat is regarded as a very important constituent in the diet of the nervous 
person — also in cases of tuberculosis and anemia it plays an important part. 
Fluid and emulsified fats are easiest of digestion, and these are found in 
cream, egg yolk and olive oil. Butter is one of the most valuable fats pro- 
vided for human food. Since it (in common with other fats) decomposes 
when exposed to a high temperature, it should not be heated to a high degree. 
In sauces and soups, it should be added the last thing before serving, if 
possible. Spreading bread with butter generously is really butter in its 
most pleasing form. Cream is one of the most delicious fats and may be 
used in a variety of ways. 

Bacon fat is regarded as a fat easy of digestion and is frequently recom- 
mended by physicians. This should not be browned too much, but rather 
cooked in water first and then cooked to a golden brown. 

Olive oil with salad greens or succulent A^egetables and fruits provides fat 
in the diet. It should be purchased by the gallon, rather than in small bottles, 
the latter being more expensive. 

Where the body is ill from lack of fat, cod liver oil is recommended. 
This, of course, is given as medicine. 

Cornmeal, oatmeal and nuts, as a class, are rich in fats, and where a 
person eats freely of foods containing a high fat content in a digestible form 
the system will not need fat as medicine. It is only where the body has been 
deprived of one of the necessary food elements for a length of time that it 
shoAvs signs of this lack and physicians are forced to prescribe the neglected 
element in the form of medicine. 



COOKING— BOOK T\YO 157 

FATS— HEAT AND ENERGY STOKERS. 
USE OF FATS IN FRYING. 



School Recipe. 
VEAL CUTLETS: 

1 Small Piece of Cooked Veal. 

114 Tablespoons Hard Bread Crumbs. 

Slightly Beaten Egg- (1 for each 8 pupils). 

2 Tablespoons Water, added to egg. 
Salt. 

Pepper. 
FRENCH FRIED POTATOES: 

1/2 Potato cut in fourths lengthwise. 
TOMATO SAUCE: 

I/2 Cup Tomato. 
14 Sliced Onion. 
Bit of Bay Leaf. 

1 Clove. 

2 Peppercorns. 

1 Teaspoon Flour. 
1 Teaspoon Water. 
Stilt and Pepper to Taste. 




FRENCH FRIED POTATOES AND VEAL CUTLETS. 

Fried foods are not easily digested and should therefore be served only 
occasionally; but, if coated with eggs and crumbs before frying, the hot fat 
coagulates the albumen of the eggs and forms a coating around the food, 
which prevents the fat from soaking into it. 



158 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

Fat as a Frying Medium. 

FRYING. 

Frying means cooking in hot fat deep enough to cover the material to 
be cooked. The fat used for cooking may be Olive Oil, Lard, Beef Drippings, 
Cottonlene, Cottosuet, Cocoa Butter, Peanut Oil or Crisco. 

A combination of % lard and I/3 Beef Drippings is considered better 
than lard alone. 

TO TRY OUT FAT. 

Cut the fat into bits, put into a pan in the oven or over a fire with 
enough cold water to cover, and let simmer slowly for several hours. When 
the fat is melted and nearly free from water, strain it. Another way is to 
put the small pieces of fat in the top of a double boiler. 

TO CLARIFY FAT. 

Melt the fat, add raAv potato, cut in i/4-inch slices, and allow fat to 
heat gradually. When fat ceases to bubble, and potatoes are well browned 
strain (through muslin or double thickness of cheesecloth placed over a 
strainer) into a pan or jar. 

POINTS ABOUT FRYING. 

Fat should be hot enough to form a crust on the food cooked in it. 

So long as fat bubbles it is not hot enough. 

Anything that cools tbe fat tends to make the food greasy. 

Do not put too much food into the fat at the samo time, as it lowers the 
temperature. 

Reheat the fat after each frying. 

All fried food should be drained on soft paper to absorb excess fat. 

RULES FOR TESTING FAT FOR FRYING. 

When the fat begins to- smoke, drop iuto it an inch cube of bread. 

If this browns in 40 seconds, the fat is hot enough for cooked mixtures, 
ex. — croquettes, codfish balls, etc. 

Use same test for uncooked mixtures, allowing 1 minute for bread to 
brown, ex. — doughnuts, etc. 

NOTE.— Nearly all food not containing eggs is dipped in eggs and 
crumbs, flour or meal, to protect it from absorbing fat. The heat of the fat 
hardens the albumen of the egg and forms a coating. 



cooKixd—nooK T^yo 



159 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 

NOTE: You are to prepare the French fried potatoes and tomato sauce, 
while your partner prepares the breaded veal cutlets. 



See Recipe on Front Page. 

Wash and pare half a potato, then cut it into 

quarters lengthwise. 

Soak the pieces in a bowl of cold water. 

While potatoes are soaking, measure the tomato 
and seasonings for tomato sauce into your saucepan, 
heat it over the fire to boiling point. Boil 5 minutes. 

Dvj the potatoes by placing them on a towel-pat. 

Fry potatoes by putting them on a wire beater 
and dropping into hot fat. ►See FIGURE 1. 

While the tomato is cooking, measure the flour 
and water into your saucer. Beat until smooth. See 
FIGURE 2. Add more cold water to make it thin 
enough to pour. Rub the tomato and seasonings 
tlirough a strainer into your boAvl. Return to sauce- 
pan. Place the saucepan back on the fire. Add the 
flour mixture to the hot liquid, stirring all the time 
until thickened. See FIGURE 3. Cook 5 minutes. 
Season to taste. Pour around the cutlets which your 
partner has placed on serving dishes. Serve with 
the French fried potatoes. 




FIGURE 1. 




FIGURE 2. 




FIGURE 3. 



You are to WIPE the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 



160 COOKING—BOOK TWO 

NOTE BOOK WORK. 

Cost of preparing Home Recipe of Veal Cutlets and Tomato Sauce : 

VEAL CUTLETS: 

Materials : Cost. 

Seasonings cts. 

1 Cup Bread Crumbs cts. 

1 Beaten Egg cts. 

1 Lb. of Veal cts. 

TOMATO SAUCE: 

2 Cups Tomato cts. 

1 Slice Onion cts. 

Bay Leaf cts. 

Cloves cts. 

Peppercorns cts. 

Salt cts. 

Flour cts. 

Seasonings cts. 

Total cts. 

TOMATO SAUCE: 

2 Cups Canned Tomato. 

1 Slice Onion. 

Bit of Bay Leaf. 
4 Cloves. 
6 Peppercorns. 
V2 Teaspoon Salt. 

2 Teaspoons Flour. 

Boil first 6 ingredients 15 minutes. Strain. Mix the flour and water 
until smooth. Thin out with more water. Add gradually to hot tomato juice, 
stirring until thickened. Boil 5 minutes. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

Wash and pare small potatoes, cut in eighths lengthwise, and soak 1 hour 
in cold water. 

Take from water, dry between towels, and fry in deep fat. 

Drain on paper and sprinkle with salt. 

Do not have the fat too hot, as the potatoes must be cooked. 



COOKING— BOOK T^yO 



161 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 

NOTE: In today's lesson you are to prepare the breaded veal cutlets. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Sprinkle the piece of cooked veal with salt and 
pepper. 

Measure the bread crumbs onto a plate. 

Dip the cutlet into the bread crumbs — cover the 
entire surface. 

Dip the breaded cutlet into slightly beaten egg 
to which 2 tablespoons water have been added by 
the housekeeper. This should be on a plate at your 
table. Cover the entire cutlet with the egg. See 
FIGURE 1. 

Dip in crumbs again. 

Place egged and crumbed cutlet on your wire 
Avhisk beater. 

Dip carefully into hot fat which has been tested 
as to temperature, according to directions already 
learned. See FIGURE 2. 

Cook until delicately browned. 

Serve your partner and self. 




FIGURE 1. 



^ 


'1 


/ f 



FIGURE 2. 



You are to WASH the dishes today according- to directions already 
learned. 



162 



COOK IXG— BOOK TWO. 



HOME RECIPES. 

Home Recipe for Veal Cutlets : 

1 Lb. of Veal cut I'roni the shouklcr or round- 
cut in 1/2-inch slices. 
Bit of Bay Leaf. 
6 Peppercorns. 
IV2 Teaspoon Salt. 
1 Slice Onion. 
1 Beaten Egg. 
Salt and Pepper. 




BREADED VEAL CUTLETS AND FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 
BREADED VEAL CUTLETS. 

Use 14-incli thick slices of veal cut from the leg. Wipe meat. Cover with 
boiling water, add bay leaf, peppercorns, salt and onion. Cook until meat is 
tender. Remove slices of meat. Remove skin and bone and cut into pieces 
for serving. Small pieces may be fastened together with a toothpick. 

Put a heap of fine crumbs on a board or large plate. (Use for crumbing 
dried bread crumbs which have been rolled and sifted, or stale bread crumbs 
forced through a colander). Break an egg, add 2 tablespoons water, beat 
slightly. Dip cutlet, seasoned with salt and pepper, in the crumbs, dip in egg, 
and then in crumbs again. Fry in smoking hot fat until a light brown and 
drain on soft paper. 

Serve with Tomato or Bechamel Sauce. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE: 

% Cup White Stock (water in which veal has been cooked). 
% Cup Milk. 
2 Tablespoons Flour. 
2 Tablespoons Cold Water. 
1 Tablespoon Butter. 
Salt and Pepper. 
Scald the milk, thicken it with the flour and water mixed to a smooth 
paste and thinned out enough to pour easily. Cook until thickened, add the 
stock, salt, pepper and butter ; stir, taste, and add more seasoning, if necessary. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 163 



QUESTIONS. 

1. What is meant by frying? 

2. What kind or kinds of fat may be used for frying? 

3. What is meant by "trying out" fat? 

4. What is meant by clarifying^ fat? 

5. How hot should the fat be for frying imrposes? 

6. Why should fried food be drained on soft paper after it is taken out 
of the fat ? 

7. How would you test the fat for cooked mixtures? 

8. How would you test the fat for uncooked mixtures? 

9. Why do eggs play an important part in fried mixtures? 

10. Name 3 foods rich in fat. 

11. In what state is fat most easily digested? 

12. What does heat do to fat? 

13. When would you add butter to soups and sauces? Why? 

14. What is the chief office of fats in the body? 



164 COOKING— BOOK TWO 



SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

Frying is not a method of cooking to be recommended. Many people are 
very fond of the brown crust or surface that is the result of frying. As pre- 
viously stated, it is the part of the food that comes in contact with the 
browned fat that is rendered difficult of digestion. 

We learned that albumen coagulates at a low temperature and when a 
mixture is covered with egg and then fried the heat of the fat coagulates the 
albumen, forming a seal protecting the inside of the food from coming in 
contact with the fat. This leaves the outside layer only of the food difficult 
of digestion, which is only a small proportion of the entire mixture. 

In frying food, these 3 things should be remembered. 

Select mixtures rich in eggs or cover mixture with eggs. 

Fat soaks fat, so never fry a mixture which is rich in fat. 

A person Avho is engaged in outdoor work or one who exercises consid- 
erably can take care of fried food better than one leading a sedentary life. 



1 



COOKING—BOOK TWO 



165 



FATS— HEAT AND ENERGY STORERS. 



USE OF FATS IN FRYING (Continued.) 

Croquettes are usually made from leftover materials. They may be 
made from one kind of material alone or in combination. When meat or 
fisli is used, it is finely chopped, and seasoned to taste. Left-over vegetables 
such as peas, may be mixed with the meat. 



VEAL CROQUETTES: 

14 Cup Chopped Cooked Veal. 
1/8 Teaspoon Salt. 
2 Tablespoons Thick Sauce 

(level). 
1/8 Beaten Egg. 
1 Piece Dry Bread or 2 Table 
spoons Rolled Crumbs. 



School Recipe. 

POTATO CROQUETTES: 
14 Cup Riced Potatoes. 

Few Grains Celery Salt. 
Yq Teaspoon Chopped Parsley. 
V2 Teaspoon Butter. 
Ys Beaten Egg. 
1 Piece Dry Bread or 2 Table- 
spoons Rolled Crumbs. 



/^\ 





VEAL AND POTATO CROQUETTES. 

In the last lesson you prepared meat dipped in egg and crumbs to ex- 
clude the fat when it Mas fi'ied. 

In this lesson you will lu'epare left-over moat by grinding it and binding 
it Avith a thick sauce, Ihcn dii)])ing it in egg and crumbs before frying. 
Mashed potatoes, rice and cereals and cheese hold together without tne sauce, 
but in both cases the croquette needs the coating of egg to keep the fat from 
soaking into the food. 



166 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



FATS— Continued. 



Digestion of Pats. — ^Fat is acted upon by the steapsin of the pancreatic 
juice and the bile in the smaller intestines, where it is divided into such 
tiny globules that they can be readily absorbed by the cell walls. 

Why Fried Food and Pastry Are Hard to Dig-est. — Fat is not acted upon 
by the saliva in the mouth, nor the gastric juices in the stomach; so when 
particles of food which should be acted upon by these fluids are entirely 
coated with grease, they cannot be reached and therefore enter the smaller 
intestines undigested. Here the fat is removed from them by the action of 
the pancreatic juice, which does its best to digest all; but as it was not in- 
tended to do the work, much of the food is passed on undigested. In pastry 
there is also another reason, namely that so little water is added to the fat 
coated starch granules that they cannot swell and burst sufficiently. Starch 
granules must absorb water, swell and burst before they can be digested. 

Remember it is the part of the food that comes in contact with the hot 
fat that is rendered difficult of digestion. 



oE:soPH^Gus 



UVE.R 
CALL BLADDER 



OPCNING OF 
PANCREAS 
AND LIVER 



VERMIFORM 
APPENDIX 




VALVE 
STOMACH 

PANCREAS 
■SPLEEN 

LARGE INTESTINE 



5MALLINTE3TINi 



VENT 



DIGESTIVE TRACT. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



1G7 




FIGURE 1. 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In today's lesson you arc to prepare tlie veal croquette, Avliile your part- 
ner prepares the potato croquette. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Roll a piece of dry bread to make crumbs. 

Measure the chopped meat into your bowl (see 
FIGURE 1), add the salt, sauce which the house- 
keeper has prejiared, and yolk of egg. 

Mix thoroughly with a fork. (See FIGURE 2.) 

Shape into a ball. 

•Roll on a board into a cylinder or pyramid 
shape. Roll in crumbs on a plate. See FIGURE 3. 

Dip into the diluted egg on a plate. See that 
the entire surface is covered with egg. 

Roll in crumbs again. 

With your wire whi.sk beater dip it into the hot 
fat, which should be hot enough to lightly brown an 
inch cube of bread in 40 seconds. 

Take out beater. Leave croquette in fat until 
light brown. Take it out of the fat with the beater FIGURE 2. 

and drain off the fat by putting it in a pan covered 
with paper. 

You are to WASH the dishes today according" to directions already 
learned. 





FIGURE 3. 




Testing- Tempera- 
ture of Fat with a 
Cube of Bread. 



168 COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 

NOTE BOOK WORK. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

2 Cups Riced Potatoes. 
^ Teaspoon Celery Salt. 
8 Drops Onion Juice. 

1 Teaspoon Chopped Parsley. 
1/8 Teaspoon Pepper. 

2 Tablespoons Butter. 
34 Teaspoon Salt. 

1 Egg Yolk. 

Mix ingredients in order given. Shape, dip in crumbs, eggs and crumbs 
again. Fry in hot fat. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

2 Cups Steamed Rice. 

1 Well Beaten Egg or 2 Yolks. 
IV2 Tablespoon Butter. 
1/2 Teaspoon Salt. 
Ys Teaspoon Pepper. 
Few Grains Paprika. 

Mix ingredients. Follow directions. Sweet Rice Croquettes may be 
made by omitting the pepper, paprika and parsley, adding 2 tablespoons sugar 
and the grated rind of 1/2 h'uion. 

Cost of preparing Home Recipe of Yeal or Potato Croquettes : 

Materials for Veal Croquettes: Cost. 

2 Cups Ground Veal cts. 

1 Well Beaten Egg or 2 Yolks cts. 

1 Cup Milk cts. 

1/3. Cup Flour •. cts. 

2V3 Tablespoons Butter cts. 

Seasonings cts. 

Materials for Potato Croquettes: Cost. 

2 Cups Riced Potatoes cts. 

2 Tablespoons Butter cts. 

1 Egg Yolk cts. 

Seasonings cts. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



169 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In todaj-'s lesson you are to prepare the potato croquette, while your 
partner prepares the veal croquette. 



See Recipe on Front Page. 

Rice the cooked potatoes (see FIGURE 1). 
Measure V2 cup into your bowl. 

Add the celery salt, I/8 teaspoon chopped pars- 
ley, the 14 teaspoon melted butter and Vs yt>lk. 

Mix thoroughly with a fork (see FIGURE 2). 

Shape into any desired shape. 




FIGURE 1. 




FIGURE 2. 



Roll in crumbs, beaten egg and crumbs again. 

Place on your ware whisk beater, drop gently 
into smoking hot fat which has been tested accord- 
ing to directions on odd numbers' page. 

Fry until a golden brown. 

Drain on soft paper. 

Serve your partner and self. 



You are to WIPE the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 



170 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



HOME RECIPES. 

FRYING— CROQUETTES. 

Left-overs of cooked meat, fish, vegetables, or macaroni may be used in 
croquettes. 

The usual mixture consists of 2 parts meat, etc., to 1 part of well sea- 
soned thick sauce, which holds it together. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

Cool the mixture. Use 2 tablespoons of mixture to each croquette. Form 
into balls, cylinders, or to imitate pears, apples, etc., using cloves for stems 
and for eyes if shaped into birds. 

Put a heap of fine crumbs on a board or large plate. (Use for crumbing 
dried bread crumbs which have been rolled and sifted, or stale bread crumbs 
forced through a colander.) Break an egg, add 2 tablespoons water, beat 
slightly ; roll the shaped croquette mixture in the crumbs, dip in egg and 
then in crumbs again. Fry in smoking hot fat until a light brown and drain 
on soft paper. 

Place a napkin on a hot platter and arrange the croquettes on it. Garnish 
with parsley, etc. A sauce may be served with croquettes. 




VEAL CROQUETTES WITH GREEN PEAS. 
Working Directions: VEAL CROQUETTES. 

2 Cups Chopped Veal (cooked). i/g Teaspoon Pepper. 

1/2 Teaspoon Salt. Few Drops Onion Juice. 

Few Grains Cayenne. 1 Cup Thick Sauce. 

Yolk 1 Egg. 
Mix ingredients in order given. Cool, shnpe, dip in crumbs, eggs, and 
crumbs again. Fry in deep fat. Chicken croquettes may be made in the 
same way, substituting chicken for veal. 
Thick Sauce: 

21/3 Tablespoons Butter. Vs Cup Flour. 

1/2 Teaspoon Salt. Few C rains Pepper. 

1 Cup Liquid (stock or milk). 
(In making Thick White Sauce, use either Avhite stock or milk.) 
Heat the liquid. Mix flour with an equal quantity of cold water until 
smooth. Thin out Avith more cold AvntfM', add to the hot liquid, stirring all the 
time until thickened. Boil 5 minutes. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 171 



QUESTIONS. 

1. What kinds of food materials would you use for croquettes? 

2. Why is this an ecoaomical way of using food materials? 

3. Name combinations that may be used for croquettes. 

4. In what different forms may croquettes be shaped? 

5. Where is fat digested? 

6. By what juices is fat acted upon? 

7. Why is fried food difficult to digest? 

8. Why are potato croquettes preferable to potatoes warmed over in 
fat? 

9. Why is a well-cooked cornstarch pudding a better dessert than pie? 

10. How do you test fat for frying? 

11. What is the test for cooked mixtures? 

12. What is the test for uncooked mixtures? 

13. How is fat tried out? 

14. How is fat clarified? 

15. What is the difference between frying and sauteing? 



172 COOKING— BOOK TWO 



SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

A great many different things furnish suitable food substance for man, 
but the stomach is not able to handle these substances unless they are prop- 
erly prepared. Before food can be digested and fitted for assimilation it 
must be reduced to a liquid ; in order that the digestive organs may properly 
accomplish this wonderful task they should receive this food finely cut to 
pieces. This is the function of the teeth. Their extreme importance can be 
appreciated only when we realize that our health in a large measure depends 
upon proper mastication of our food. 

The teeth include 2 incisors, 1 canine, 2 bicuspids and 3 molars, or 
grinders, on each side of each jaw. 

Teeth decay easily if not taken care of and therefore should receive the 
best of care. Bacteria enter the mouth, and while they do not affect sound 
teeth they will attack soft food left between the teeth after eating, turning it 
sour. The sourness is due to acid, which dissolves the lime in the enamel of 
the teeth, producing soft spots and cavities. Acids do not act on the hard 
enamel easily unless it is cracked or broken. Two things should be remem- 
bered: Not to crack the enamel with hard substances; not to allow food to 
lodge between the teeth, but to cleanse them thoroughly after each meal. 

Carbohydrates will sour or be turned to acid by bacteria more readily 
than other foods. 

Teeth should be examined by a reliable dentist twice a year. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



173 



FATS— HEAT AND ENERGY STORERS. 

PREPARATION OF DOUGHNUTS. 

When selecting a recipe for doughnuts choose one that calls for a little 
shortening only — as fat soaks fat. If the recipe calls for several eggs, it is 
better than one with only a little egg in proportion to the other ingredients. 
Doughnuts should not be greasy. 



MATERIALS: 



2 
1 

Vs 
2 

% 



16 



School Recipe. 

Tablespoons Sugar. 
Teaspoon Butter. 
Beaten Egg. 
Tablespoons Milk. 
Cup Flour, plus enough to roll. 
Teaspoon Baking Powder. 
Few Grains Cinnamon. 
Few Grains Nutmeg. 
Teaspoon Salt. 




DOUGHNUTS. 

We should avoid eating fried foods — as they are always more or less diffi- 
cult to digest. Foods to be fried should either contain egg or be dipped in egg 
before frying. 

Egg coagulates at a Ioav temperature and therefore acts as a seal when 
the mixture is coated with it. 

A large proportion of ogg in the mixture reduces the danger of absorb- 
ing fat. 



174 COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 

DIGESTION. 

Before the food that we eat ])ecoiues blood, so it can be ti'ansformed into 
bone, nerve, muscle, skin, hair, etc., it undergoes a number of changes. 

The processes which bring about these changes are : 

1. Digestion. 

2. Absorption. 

3. Assimilation. 

4. Elimination. 

Digestion is the process by which the food taken into the body is changed 
by the action of the digestive fluids into a liquid form, so that it can be ab- 
sorbed by the cell walls. 

Absorption is the process by which the digested food passes through the 
cell walls (villi) into the blood and lymph stream, so that it can be carried to 
the parts where it is needed. 

Assimilation is the process by which the absorbed food is made like the 
different parts of the body. When a cell needs nourishment or repair it se- 
lects from the blood stream the necessary material for its use. 

Elimination is the process by which useless material like undigested food 
and Avaste materials formed by chemical changes are excreted by the skin, 
lungs, kidneys and the large intestines. 

FIVE IMPORTANT ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 

Nature of Acted Upon 

Organ Digestive Fluid Ferment Ferment Substance 

1. Mouth Saliva Ptyalin Alkaline Starch 

2. Stomach . . . .Gastric Renin, pepsin and 

hydrochloric 

acid Acid Proteids 

3. Small Intes- Acid and (Starch, pro- 

tines Intestinal / teids, fats 

alkaline j^ Starch 

^Proteids 

4. Pancreas . . . .Araylopsin,- 

Trypsin, 

Steapsin Alkaline Fats* 

5. Liver Bile Neutral Fats* 

*The pancreas secretes the pancreatic juice and the liver secretes the bile, 
but no food is digested in them. 

The pancreatic juices pour their digestive fluids into the intestines, and 
these complete the process of digestion, as they act upon all foods. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



175 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 




FIGURE 1. 



In today's lesson you are to cream the butter and sugar and niea.sur<> the 
liquid ingredients, while your partner measures the dry ingredients, eoml)iiies 
the li(iuid mixture and rolls the dough. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Measure the 1 teaspoon of butter into your 
bowl. Work it with your wooden spoon until 
creamy. (See FIGURE 1.) Add the 1 tablespoon 
of sugar gradually and continue stirring. 

Measure the beaten egg (see FIGURE 2) and 
the milk into your cup. Add the remaining table- 
spoon of sugar. Add this to the creamed butter and 
sugar. 

Your partner will measure and add the dry 
ingredients. 

Cut out 2 doughnuts. (See FIGURE 3.) 

Test the fat with a 1-inch cube of bread — if the 
bread turns a golden brown in 60 seconds, the fat 
is of right temperature to fry the doughnuts. 

Drop the doughnuts carefully into the hot fat, 
holding your hand close to the fat so that it Avill 
not splash. 

Turn doughnuts as soon as they come to the top, 
and continue turning until browned all over. 

Drain on paper. 

Sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

You are to WIPE the dishes today according" to directions already 
learned. 




FIGURE 2. 




FIGURE 3. 



176 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 



DOUGHNUTS. 



MATERIALS: 



1 Cup Sugar. 
21/2 Tablespoons Butter. 



3 Eggs. 



1 

31/2 
5 



IVc 



Cup. Milk. 

Cups Flour — add enough to roll. 
Teaspoons Baking PoAvder. 
Teaspoon Cinnamon. 
Teaspoon Grated Nutmeg. 
Teaspoons Salt. 




Working Directions: 

Cre-am the butter; add ^2 of the sugar. Beat eggs until light, add milk, 
remaining sugar, and combine mixtures. Add the flour mixed and sifted with 
baking powder, salt and spices, then enough more flour to make a dough stiff 
enough to roll. Toss I/3 of the mixture onto a floured board, knead slightly, 
pat and roll out to 14 i^^^^ thickness. Shape with a doughnut cutter, dipped 
in flour. Fry in deep fat and drain on brown paper. Doughnuts should rise 
to the top almost immediately when put into smoking hot fat, when they may 
be turned. Continue turning until browned all over. 

Cost of preparing Home Recipe of Doughnuts : 
Materials : Cost. 

1 Cup Sugar cts. 

214 Tablespoons Butter cts. 

3 Eggs cts. 

1 Cup Milk cts. 

31/4 Cups Flour cts. 

5 Teaspoons Baking Powder cts. 

Seasonings cts. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



111 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 




FIGURE 1. 




In today's lesson you are to measure the dry ingredients, combine the 
mixture and roll the douffh. 



See Recipe on Front Page. 

Measure the I/2 cii]) flour into your sifter, placed 
over the bowl. (See FIGURE 1.) 

Measure and add the baking powder, few^ grains 
cinnamon and few grains nutmeg, and 1/6 teaspoon 
salt, to the Hour in the sifter. 

Shake the sifter — or stir with a spoon (see FIG- 
URE 2). 

Add the sifted flour mixture gradually to the 
liquid ingredients prepared by your partner. Mix it 
with a spoon until perfectly smooth (see FIGURE 
3). 

If necessary, add flour until when mixture is 
touched with the finger tip, it will not stick to it. 
Cut this additional flour into the mixture with a 
knife. 

Flour your board. 

Roll mixture to I/2 i^^h thickness. 

Dip doughnut cutter into flour. Shape 2 dough- 
nuts (see FIGURE 4). 

Your partner will shape the other 2. She will 
fry the doughnuts. 



FIGURE 2. 




FIGURE 3. 




FIGURE 4. 



You are to WASH the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 



178 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



HOME RECIPES. 



DOUGHNUTS— Continued. 
DOUGHNUTS II. 

Cups Flour. Yg Teaspoon Grnted Nutmeg. 

Teaspoon Soda. 1 Cup Cream. 

Teaspoons Cream of Tartar. 3 Beaten Eggs. 

Teaspoon Salt. 1 Cup Sugar. 

14 Teaspoon Cinnamon. 
Mix and sift flour, soda and cream of tartar and seasonings. Beat the 
eggs and add it to the sugar and cream. Add to dry ingredients and mix 
with a knife ; add enough flour to make a dough stiff enough to rolL Pat, roll 
and shape as in Eccipe I. 

SOUR MILK DOUGHNUTS. 



1 



4 Cups Flour — add enough to knead. 
1 Teaspoon soda. 
Yo Teaspoon Cinnamon. 

1 Teaspoon Baking Powder. 
1/2 Teaspoon Salt. 

Mix according to directions for Doughnut Recipe II. 

Add enough flour to knead, pat, roll, shape and fry as in Recipe I. 



V2 
1 
1 



Teaspoon Melted Butter. 
Cup Sour Milk. 
Cup Sweet Milk. 
Cup Sugar. 
Well Beaten Egg. 




2 
1 

2 
3 

'A 



APPLE FRITTERS. 

Apples Cut in Cubes.. 

Cup Flour. 

Teaspoons Baking Powder. 

Tablespoons Sugar. 

Teaspoon Salt. 

Cup Milk. 

Egg. 



Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk to the well-beaten egg; combine 
mixtures, then add the apples. Drop by spoonfuls and fry in deep fat. Drain 
on brown paper and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 



COOKING— BOOK T^yo 179 



QUESTIONS. 

1. Why is fried food difficult of digestion? 

2. What is added to fried mixtures to reduce the tendency of absorb- 
ing fat! 

3. How do you make doughnuts? 

4. How can you tell when the fat is of the right temperature for frying 
doughnuts ? 

5. What should be done to doughnuts immediately after frying? 

6. Why shouldn't you eat fried food every day? 
T. Name 3 fats useful as foods. 

8. Name 2 fats useful as frying mediums? 

9. What is suet? 

10. What is lard? 

11. How may fats bo clarified? 

12. Give recipe for apple fritters. 

13. How are the ingredients combined? 

14. May other fruit be used in pl-ace of apples? 



180 COOKING— BOOK TWO 



SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

A great many people suffer from indigestion. Much of this could be 
avoided if they would observe the proper methods of living. It is very 
much better to keep ourselves well by observing the rules of health than to 
spend time and money and undergo untold suffering trying to cure the ail- 
ments which have been brought on by disregard to nature's laws. If we 
would take proper care of our digestion, a very large per cent of our ills 
would be cured. 

Indigestion is due to many causes : to improperly selected or incorrectly 
prepared food, or to disregard of proper mastication. The American people, 
as a rule, do not take sufficient time to eat. This subject has been discussed 
in an earlier chapter. 

It is the purpose of the digestive fluids, aided by -water, to dissolve the 
food, making it ready for assimilation. Gastric indigestion is due to dis- 
turbances in the stomach, while intestinal indigestion is due to disturbances 
in the intestines, etc. 

The digestion of the carbohydrate begins in the mouth and is completed 
in the intestines, while the digestion of the protein begins in the stomach and 
is completed in the intestines. 

Too much acidity in the stomach may be relieved by avoiding foods rich 
in carbohydrate, selecting a diet rich in animal constituents, such as milk, 
eggs, fish and bacon. In such a, case salt, pepper, mustard, spices, pickles, 
starch, sugar, acids and all strong condiments should be avoided — alkaline 
waters are often recommended. Foods containing gelatine are also con- 
sidered very good in taking care of superacidity. 



COOKING— BOOK T^yO 181 

STEAMED MIXTURES. 

PREPARATION OF BROWN BREAD. 

Bread well deserves the title of Staff of Life, and, as it is used daily in 
every household in some form or another, a variety is desirable. Usually 
bread mixtures are baked, but steaming may well be employed to advantage 
in the cooking of them, thus providing a pleasing change. 

School Recipe. 

MATERIALS: BROWN BREAD. 

3 Tablespoons Graham Flour. 
i/g Teaspoon Salt. 

2 Tablespoons Cornmeal. 
1/5 Teaspoon Soda. 

1 Level Tablespoon Molasses. 

3 Tablespoons and 1 Teaspoon Milk. 

WHOLE WHEAT PUDDING. 

3 Tablespoons Whole Wheat Flour. 
1/16 Teaspoon Soda. 
1/16 Teaspoon Salt. 

1 Level Tablespoon Molasses. 

1 Tablespoon Milk. 

1 Teaspoon Beaten Egg\ 
1/2 Teaspoon Melted Butter. 

2 Tablespoons Raisins. 




STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

Usually steamed broad mixtures are made from coarsely ground grains; 
ex., Graham flour, cornmeal, etc. It offers a variety in the preparation of flour 
mixtures and furnishes a wholesome and nutritious food. 



182 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

STEAMING. 

Steaming is cooking over the steam from boiling water. 

Steaming may be done in a perforated steamer over a kettle containing 
boiling water. 

A cooker or sterilizer may be used. 

Cooking in the upper part of a double boiler, where the steam docs not 
come in direct contact with the food, is called dry steaming. 

Foods cooked in the upper part of a double boiler do not reach the boil- 
ing point of water, which is 212 degrees F. 

A double boiler is most useful for making custards, scalding milk and 
cooking cereals, as it insures even cooking, prevents it from wasting or drying 
on the boiler, makes stirring unnecessary, and removes all chances of burning, 
so long as there is water in the lower part of the double boiler. 

Steaming is a slower process than boiling. 

Tough meats, hams, fruit cakes, puddings, etc., require a long, moist heat. 

Fish, potatoes, sweet corn, rice, peas, beans, squash, cucumbers and pump- 
kins may be steamed to advantage. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR STEAMED MIXTURES. 

A mold, a tin pail or a can with a tightly-fitting cover may be used. 

Grease the inside of the mold thoroughly. 

The molds may be covered with buttered paper, tied down securely, or 
the inside of the cover may be buttered. 

The can should be filled % full. 

Place the mold on a trivet or several layers of soft paper in a large kettle, 
containing enough boiling water to reach half way to the top of the mold. 

Keep the water boiling all the time during steaming. Add more boiling 
water, if it is necessary. 

Cover the kettle during the steaming, and be careful not to jar it while 
cooking. 

If the school is provided with individual steamers, they should be used — 
otherwise small baking powder cans may be used. They should be placed in 
the saucepan, covered with several thicknesses of paper or cloth. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



183 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED 
BY ALL ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In today's lessons you are to prepare the 
Steamed Bread, wliile your partner prepares the 
Steamed Puddiui;'. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Measure the graham Hour, salt, cornmeal and 
soda into your strainer placed ovm- a bowl. Sift con- 
tents into the bowl. (See FIGURE 1.) 

Measure the molasses (be sure it is a level table- 
spoon) and the milk (see FIGURE 2) into your 
saucer. 

Butter the inside of your steamer and cover. 

Take out the steamer ring. 

Place the steamer in the ring. See FIGURE 3. 

Add the li(iuid ingredients to the dry in- 
gredients. 

Beat until smooth. 

Pour mixture into steamer. 

Put on steamer cover. 

Place steamer in a saucepan containing boiling 
water, to reach half way to top of steamer. Sec 
FIGURE 4. 

Cover saucepan closely. 

Cook 25 minutes. See FIGURE 5. 

Remove steamei-s and turn out the bi-ead. 

You are to WASH the dishes today according- 
to directions already learned. 




FIGURE 1. 




FIGURE 2. 



1 


"K 








^ 1 


■ 


^^ 




d 


«' 


-■■y^.: 



FIGURE 3. 




FIGURE 4. 




FIGURE 5. 



184 



COOKING—BOOK TWO 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 
STEAMED BREAD. 



IV2 Cups Graham Flour. 
1 Teaspoon Salt. 
1 Cup Indian Meal. 
V2 Tablespoon Soda. 
V2 Cup Molasses. 
1% Cups Milk. 





Working Directions : 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add molasses and milk. Fill cans % 
full, and steam 3 hours in a large mold. Less time is required if cooked 
in a small baking powder or cocoa can. 

Cost of preparing Home Recipe of Steamed Bread : 

Materials ; Cost. 

V/2 Cups Graham Flour cts. 

1 Cup Indian Meal cts. 

V2 Cup Molasses cts. 

1% Cups Milk cts. 

V2 Tablespoon Soda cts. 

1 Teaspoon Salt cts. 




How to Cut Hot Brown Bread with a String. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



185 




FIGURE 1. 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In today's lesson you are to prepare the Steamed Pudding. 
See Recipe on Front Page. 

Measure the whole wheat flour, soda and salt 
into the sifter placed over your bowl. 

Sift contents into the bowl. (See FIGURE 1.) 

Measure and cut the raisins. (See FIGURE 2.) 

Measure the molasses, egg and milk into your 
saucer. 

Butter the inside of your steamer mold and 
cover. 

Take out the steamer ring. Place mold in ring. 

Add the liquid ingredients and raisins to the 
dry (see FIGURE 3) and beat all until thoroughly 
mixed and smooth. Pour mixture into steamer. 

Place steamer in a saucepan, containing enough 
l)oiling water to reach half w^aj" to top of mold. 

Cook 25 minutes. (See FIGURE 4.) 

Remove steamer and turn out pudding. 

Serve your partner and self. 

You are to WIPE the dishes today according 
to directions already learned. 




FIGURE 2. 




FIGURE 3. 




FIGURE 4. 



186 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



HOME RECIPES. 




ENTIRE WHEAT 

11/2 Cups Entire Wheat Flour. 
1/^ Teaspoon Soda. 
1/2 Teaspoon Salt. 
V2 ^'i-iP Molasses. 



PUDDING. 

1/2 Cup ]\lilk or Water. 

1 Egg Beaten. 

2 Tablespoons Butter Melted. 
1 Cup Chopped Raisms. 



Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add molasses and milk. Add beaten egg 
and melted butter, then the raisins. Chopped figs or dates may be used. 
Steam 21/2 hours in a large mold. 

HARD SAUCE. 
V2 Cup Butter. 1/2 Teaspoon Lemon Extract. 

1 Cup Powdered Sugar. % T(\nspoon Vanilla Extract. 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, and flavoring. 
HUNTER'S PUDDING. 



% Cup Chopped Suet. 
2/3 Cup Molasses. 
2/3 Cup Milk. 

2 Cups Flour. 
% Teaspoon Soda. 

1 Teaspoon Salt. 
y^ Teaspoon Clove. 
Mix in the order given 



1/3 Teaspoon jMace. 
I/3 Teaspoon Allspice. 
14 Teaspoon Cinnamon. 

1 Cup Chopped Raisins in 2 
blespoons Flour. 

1/4 Cup Chopped Nut ]\Ioats. 



Ta- 



Serve with yellow sauce. 
YELLOW SAUCE. 
2 Eggs. 1 Cup Powdered Sugar. 1 Teaspoon Vanilla. 

Beat yolks of eggs; add sugar gradually. 
Fold in stiffly beaten whites ; flavor. 

PLUM PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. 



1 Quart Cooked IMashed Carrots. 

1 Pound Finely Chopped Suet. 
1/2 Cup Sugar. 

2 Cups Flour. 
114 Teaspoons Salt. 

1 Teaspoon Cinnamon. 
14 Teaspoon Clove. 
14 Grated Nutmeg. 

Mix ingredients in order given. 



% Pound Cun-ants. 
I/2 Pouud Citron. 



Pound Raisins. 



T)r(Mlge 
with Flour. 



Sift together. 



Steam 314 hours in a buttered mold. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 187 



QUESTIONS. 

1. What is meant by steaming? 

2. How may it be done? 

3. What is the difference between direct and dry steaming? 

4. What is a double boiler? 

5. For what is the double boiler most useful ? 

6. Give general directions for steamed mixtures. 

7. Name 4 grains used for food. 

8. Name 4 kinds of flour used in batters and doughs. 

9. When are coarse breads desirable? 

10. Why is cornmeal usually mixed M'ith white flour in batters? 

11. Where is starch digested? 

12. Into what are starchy foods changed during digestion? 

13. How should all foods containing starch be cooked? Why? 

14. How would you prepare Plum Pudding without Eggs? 



188 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

DATE PUDDING. 

ys Cup Butter. 2 Cups Sifted Flour. 

14 Cup Sugar. 4 Teaspoons Baking Powder. 

1 Egg. 1 Cup Dates, cut into small pieces. 
3/4 Cup Milk. 

Cream the butter, add sugar, well beaten egg, and milk, then the flour 
sifted with the baking powder. Add dates ; drop mixture into greased molds, 
and steam 30 minutes. 

LELION SAUCE. 

1/2 Cup Sugar. IV2 Cups Boiling Water. 

1 Tablespoon Cornstarch. 1 Teaspoon Butter. 

11/2 Teaspoons Lemon Juice. 

Mix sugar and cornstarch ; add boiling water gradually, stirring until 
thickened. Boil five minutes. Add butter and lemon juice. Serve. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

2 Cups Finely Chopped Suet. 

2 Cups Seeded Raisins, washed and dried. 

2 Cups Currants, washed and dried. 
1 Cup Finely Cut Citron. 

IV3 Cups Brown Sugar. 
1 Cup Flour. 
1 Grated Nutmeg. 
1 Tablespoon Salt. 
1 Tablespoon Mace. 
1 Tablespoon Cinnamon. 

3 Cups Bread Crumbs. 
V4 Cup Cream. 

6 Eggs, beaten separately. 
1 Cup Orange Juice. ' 

Rind 1 Orange. 

Rind 1 Lemon. 

Mix the fruit and flour, which has been sifted with the seasonings. 
Moisten the bread crumbs with the cream, add the beaten yolks of eggs, 
sugar, suet, orange juice and fruit mixture. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg 
whites. Steam six hours in a large mold. Serve with hard sauce or lemon 
sauce. 



COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 



189 



BREAD MAKING. 

PREPARATION OF WHITE BREAD. 

In previous lessons, attention has been paid to the making of bread 
mixtures, requiring no kneading. In today's Lesson, directions for kneaded 
bread are given. A bread mixer saves time and labor and does away with 
the handling of the dough Avith the hands. 



MATERIALS : 



2 
1 
1 

L,5 

1 
1 



School Recipe. 

Tablespoons Scalded Milk. 
Tablespoon Boiling- Water, 
Teaspoon Butter. 
Teaspoon Salt. 
Teaspoon Sugar. 
Yeast Cake mixed with 
Tablespoon Lukewarm Water. 
Cup Flour (plus). 




BREAD. 

To be able to make a perfect loaf of bread should be the ambition of 
every girl. Bread is called the Staff of Life because it plays such an impor- 
tant part in our daily diet. 

Well baked bread and butter with a glass of milk provides a wholesome 
luncheon for a growing child. Bread and milk fed children are usually 
healthy and happy. 



190 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

YEAST AND ITS ACTION. 

Review Lesson on Yeast and Bread Making. 

Compressed Yeast is usually obtained from the froth of beer. 

RECIPE FOR HOME MADE YEAST. 

5 Small or 4 large grated Potatoes. 1 Quart Boiling Water. 
14 Cup Sugar. 1 Yeast Cake mixed with I/2 cup" 

2 Tablespoons Salt. lukeAvarm water. 

Add grated potatoes to boiling water and boil 5 minutes, while stirring. 
Cool, add sugar, salt and yeast cake mixture. Pour into a stone or glass 
jar, cover and let stand in a warm place for 3 hours or more. Each time 
mixture reaches top of jar, stir it down. Do this until fermentation ceases, 
then put away in a cool place. Cover. 

Use ^ cup of this in place of one yeast cake when making bread or 
biscuits. 

Use until there is only I/2 cupful left, then prepare according to recipe 
above, using 14 cupful of home made yeast in place of the yeast cake. 

Mechanical processes in bread making are : 

1. Mixing. 

2. Beating. 

3. Kneading and Molding. 

MIXING. 

The flour should be thoroughly mixed with a sufficient quantity of liquid 
that each grain of flour may be thoroughly hj'drated (water-soaked), the 
sugar dissolved and the gluten sufficiently moistened. 

BEATING. 

The mixture should be thoroughly beaten to enclose as much air as pos- 
sible and to distribute tlu^se air cells. Beating the mixture will make it 
elastic. The longer it is beaten the less kneading is required. 

KNEADING. 

The mixture should be kneaded thoroughly to make the gluten elastic, 
to break the bubbles and to distribute evenly the carbon dioxide, thereby 
forming a fine-grained loaf. 

Molding is simply the shaping of the dough into loaves. 

BAKING. 

Bread is baked : 1. To cook the starch. 2. To expand the gases and to 
harden the cell walls. 3. To kill the yeast plants. 4. To evaporate the 
alcohol formed. 5. To brown the crust. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



li)l 




FIGURE 1. 




FIGURE 2. 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 

You are to propnrc a loaf of White Bread. Your partner will also pre- 
pare one. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Measure the salt, butter and sugar into your 
small saucepan, measure and add to it the scalded 
milk and boiling water, which the housekeeper has 
heated for you. (Be sure to measure all the spoon 
will hold of milk and water.) Let it stand until 
lukewarm. 

Measure a tablespoon of lukewarm water into 
your muffin tin and be sure it is neither hot nor 
cold when tested with yoiir finger. 

Break the 3'east cake into small pieces; add it 
and mix it with the luke^^•arm Avater in your muffin 
tin or cust<Trd cup (see FIGURE 1) ; add it to the 
liquids in the saucepan, Avhich should be lukewarm. 

Measure the flour into a strainer placed over 
the saucepan containing the liquids ; shake half the 
flour into it ; beat mixture thoroughly with the 
Avooden spoon. Add the other half and beat vigor- 
ously again. Add flour until, Avhen dough is touched 
with your finger, it will not stick to it. Dust your 
board Avith flour. Kne-ad the dough until it is smooth 
and elastic. Be careful not to add too much flour. 

When thoroughly kneaded, put into saucepan. Put saucepan into your 
dish pan I/3 ^^^^ of Avater that is hot to your finger and still not hotter 
than you can bear to hold your finger in for a minute. (See FIGURE 2.) 

Cover saucepan; alloAv mixture to stand until it has risen to d()ul)le its 
bulk. While mixture is rising, butter your bread pan. (See FIGURE 3.) 

When mixture has doubled its bulk, knead again, shape into a loaf, put 
into bread-pan, Avrite your name on a piece of paper and drop it on top of 
mixture in the pan. 

Place on baking sheet; put baking sheet in a Avarm place, cover it with 
a cloth and let it rise again to double its bulk. Put in the oven and l)ake 
fi'om 25 to 30 minutes. 

You are to WIPE the dishes today according- to directions already 
learned. 




FIGURE 3. 



192 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 

Cost of Preparing Home Recipe for Bread : 

Materials : Cost. 

1 Cup Scalded Milk cts. 

1 Tablespoon Butter cts. 

1 Tablespoon Lard cts. 

1 Tablespoon Sugar cts. 

1 Yeast Cake cts. 

6 Cups Flour cts. 

11/2 Teaspoon Salt cts. 




ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD. 

1 Cup Boiling Water. 2% Cups Flour. 

1 Cup Scalded Milk. 1 Yeast Cake dissolved in V4 cup 

Vs Cup Molasses. lukewarm water. 

1 Teaspoon Salt. 
4% Cups Coarse Entire Wheat Flour. 
Add sweetening and salt to milk; cool, and when lukewarm add yeast 
cake and 5 cups flour mixed and sifted. Beat well, add enough flour to make 
a dough stiff enough to knead. Knead, cover and let rise to double its bulk. 
Knead again, shape, place in greased bread-pans, having pans V2 f^ll- Let 
rise and bake. 

RYE BREAD. 

May be made as directed for whole wheat bread, using rye flour in place 
of the whole wheat. 

Remember to let dough rise to double its bulk each time. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



193 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 



You are to prepare a loaf of White Bread, 
pare one. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Measure the salt, butter and sugar into your 
small saucepan, measure and add to it the scalded 
milk and boiling water, which the housekeeper has 
heated for you. (Be sure to measure all the spoon 
will hold of milk and water.) Let it stand until 
lukewarm. 

Measure a tablespoon of lukewarm water into 
your muiSn tin and be sure it is neither hot nor cold 
when tested with your linger. 

Break the yeast cake into small pieces; add it 
and mix it with the lukewarm water in your muffin 
tin or custard cup (see FIGURE 1) ; add it to the 
liquids in the saucepan, Avhich should be lukewarm. 

Measure the flour into a strainer placed over a 
saucepan containing the liquids ; shake half the flour 
into it ; beat mixture thoroughly with the wooden 
spoon. Add the other half and beat vigorously 
again. Add flour, until when dough is touched with 
your finger, it will not stick to it. Dust your board 
with flour. Knead the dough until it is smooth and 
elastic. 

When thoroughly kneaded, put into saucepan. 
Place saucepan in dish-pan y^ full of water that is 
hot to your finger and still not hotter than you can 
bear to hold your finger in for a minute. (See 
FIGURE 2.) 

Cover saucepan ; allow mixture to stand until 
it has risen to dou])le its bulk. While mixture is 
rising, butter your bread-pan. (See FIGURE 3.) 

When mixture has doubled its bulk, knead 
again, shape into loaf, put into bread-pan, write your 
name on a piece of paper and drop it on top of 
mixture in the pan. 



Your partner will also pre- 




FIGURE 1. 




FIGURE 2. 






FIGURE 3. 




FIGURE 4. 



Place on the baking sheet; put baking sheet in a warm place, cover it 
with a cloth and let it rise again to double its bulk. (See FIGURE 4.) Put 
in the oven and bake from 25 to 30 minutes. 

You are to WASH the dishes today according' to directions already 
learned. 



194 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



HOME RECIPES. 



BREAD. 



1 Cup Scalded Milk. 
1 Cup Boiling Water. 
1 Tablespoon Bntter. 
1 Tablespoon Lard. 
11/2 Teaspoon Salt. 



1 Tablespoon Sugar. 
1 Yeast Cake mixed with 
14 Cup Lukewarm Water. 
6 Cups Flour. 



f 



J^*" 





'^^i^*%?S; 




Working' Directions : 

Add butter, lard, salt and sugar to the milk and Avater; let stand until 
lukewarm; add yeast cake mixed with the lukeA\arm water, 5 cups flour. 
Stir until smooth, then add enough flour (gradually) to make a dough stiff 
enough to knead. Turn the dough onto a floured board, knead until smooth 
and elastic to the touch. Return to bowl, cover closely, and let it stand in a. 
warm place until double its bulk. Knead again and shape into loaves, and 
place in greased pans. Cover. Let it rise until double its bulk. Bake in a 
hot oven 50 to 60 minutes. Have the crust bro^vn on all sides. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 195 



QUESTIONS. 

1. Name ingredients necessary for bread making. 

2. Name conditions that check the growth of yeast. 

3. Name conditions that encourage the growth of yeast. 

4. Can you make home-made yeast? How? 

5. After home-made yeast is started, how can you keep a supply of it 
on hand? 

6. Name mechanical processes in bread making. 

7. What effect does each one have upon the mixture? 

8. How long should a loaf of bread be baked? 

9. How can you tell when it is done? 

10. When and where did you learn some of the above? 

11. What food principles are present in a loaf of bread? 

12. Is toasted bread easier of digestion than untoasted bread? Why? 

13. Give directions for toasting bread. 

14. Give directions for making cream or milk toast. 



196 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

YEAST (Review). 

Floating around everywhere are microscopic organisms that resemble 
plants. Among these are Yeast plants. These feed on sweet and nitrogenous 
materials and multiply very rapidly. The old-fashioned way of making 
bread was leaving a sponge in a warm place to ferment naturally. Now culti- 
vated varieties are added, but these were derived from wild yeasts originally. 
Compressed, dry or liquid yeasts are used for bread. In any variety there are 
a collection of yeast plants massed together in a way that they will keep 
for some time. The strength of yeast depends upon the care with which 
it is made and preserved. Liquid yeasts are apt to be full of bacteria which 
set up lactic fermentation. 

Compressed yeast is made from grains, such as corn, rye and barley malt, 
in factories. The grain is ground in a mill, mashed with water, cooked and 
allowed to cool, and fermented with yeast of a previous making. At the 
proper stage of fermentation, the yeast is separated from the fluid, washed, 
filtered, pressed, cut into cakes and wrapped. Every yeast cake contains 
millions of tiny plants. 

Air, warmth, moisture and a nitrogenous surrounding are necessary for 
their growth. All these conditions are provided when they are mixed with 
flour and liquid. 

Heat will kill the yeast plants while cold checks the growth. Therefore, 
in bread making the yeast plants should never come in contact with anything 
hot until baking time, or be exposed to cold unless it is desirable to retard 
fermentation. The amount of yeast used depends on the length of time 
desired for the process. As much as two yeast cakes may be used to a cupful 
of liquid, if it is desirable to make a loaf of bread in 2 hours. One yeast 
cake to a cupful of liquid for a 3 hour process, and ^4 yeast cake for a 5 
hour process. One yeast cake to a quart of liquid or for 4 loaves of bread 
for a 5 hour process. One yeast cake to 2 quarts of liquid or 8 loaves of 
bread, if allowed to rise over night. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



197 



CAKE MAKING. 

PREPARATION OF LAYER CAKE. 

One of the objects in a course in cookery is to teach how to make all 
the different kinds of food preparations used in the very best and most 
economical way possible. Each one must judge for herself what is best 
for her particular household. 



MATERIALS: 

1 Tablespoon Butter. 
3I/2 Tablespoons Sugar. 

2 Tablespoons Beaten Egg. 
1/6 Orange Rind. 

2 Tablespoons Milk. 
7 Tablespoons Flour. 

Teaspoon Baking- Powder. 
ORANGE FILLING. 

Tablespoons Sugar. 

Tablespoon Flour. 



School Recipe. 



4 
1 



V2 



Vs 



V2 



Beaten Egg-. 
Grated Rind y^ Orange. 
Tablespoons Orange Juice. 
Teaspoon Lemon Juice. 

ORANGE FROSTING. 
Teaspoon Orange Juice. 
Teaspoon Lemon Juice. 
Rind 1/2 Orange. 
Yolk of Egg. 
Confectioners' Sugar. 




ORANGE CAKE. 

Cakes may be divided into two ehisscs: those nuide with butter or other 
shortening' and those made without butter or other shortening. Cakes should 
be regarded as a luxury. Only the best materials should be used so that 
it may be delicate, dainty and attractive. Pastry flour should be used in 
cake making, as loss shortening is required and the results are much better 
than when bread flour is used. 



198 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

CAKE. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

See that the fire is right. 

Have materials and utensils ready, including a plate on which to lay 
sticky spoons, etc. 

Butter the pans ; buttered paper may be used to line the pan or the 
pans may be buttered and then sprinkled with flour. 

Measure dry ingredients, then liquid. 

Cream the butter with a wooden spoon in an earthen bowl which may 
be warmed slightly. Creaming butter makes it soft. 

Beat the yolks with a Dover egg-beater. 

Beat the whites with a spider-web or a Dover egg-beater. 

Fill pans % full with the cake mixture. 

Sponge cake requires a more moderate oven than cake made with butter. 

Cake is done when it shrinks from the sides of the pan, or when a clean 
broom straw put into the center comes out clean or when pressed lightly 
with the tip of finger, the cake springs back into place. 

TESTS FOR TEMPERATURE OF OVEN. 

If a piece of letter paper turns a deep yellow in 5 minutes, the oven is 
right for cake made with butter. 

The same test may be used for sponge cake, the paper turning a light 
yellow in 5 minutes. 

The time may be divided into four periods : 

1. Rise and not brown. 

2. Continue to rise and brown in spots. 

3. Light brown. 

4. Deeper brown and shrink from sides of pan. 

TO REMOVE CAKES FROM PANS. 

After allowing the baked cake to remain in the pan about 3 minutes, 
invert pans on a board covered with a piece of old linen. 

If cake sticks to the pan, place a damp cloth on the bottom of the pan 
for a few minutes. 

NOTE : If bread flour is used in place of pastry flour, take 2 tablespoons 
less for each cup. It is considered more economical to use pastry flour for 
cakes as less shortening is required than when bread flour is used. Cover 
baking powder can, sugar jar, flour bin, etc., as soon as you have measured 
the necessary quantities. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



HJ9 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In today's Lesson you are to prepare the filling and the frosting, while 
the even number prepares the cake mixture. 

Fill the lower part of your double boiler Vs fiiH of water, mix tlie sugar 
and flour in the top part of double boiler, add the beaten egg. 

Measure the orange and lemon juice and add to the egg mixture. 

Cook 10 minutes in the double boiler stirring constantly. Remove from 
fire when done. Cool. 



Prepare frosting while filling mixture is cooling. 

Measure the orange juice, rind and lemon juice. 
Let stand 3 minutes. Strain into bowl. Add egg 
yolk. Stir in confectioners' sugar until frosting is 
thick enough to spread on cake. It should be so 
thick that it will not run. 

Put filling on the bottom of 1/2 ^^ cake layer 
prepared by your partner. (See FIGURE 1.) 




FIGURE 1. 



Put the bottom of the other half on top of this. 

Spread frosting on top of cake. (See FIG- 
URE 2.) 

Serve your partu(M' and s(>lf. 

You are to WASH the dishes today according 
to directions already learned. 




FIGURE 2. 



200 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

NOTE BOOK WORK. 

Cost of Preparing Home Recipe of Orange Cake : 

Materials : Cost. 

V4 Cup Butter cts. 

1 Cup Sugar cts. 

2 Eggs cts. 

Rind 14 Orange cts. 

1/2 Cup Milk :. cts. 

1% Cups Flour .- cts. 

214 Teaspoons Baking PoAvder cts. 

Cost of Preparing Home Recipe of Orange Filling : 

Materials : Cost. 

14 Cup Sugar cts. 

2 Tablespoons Flour cts. 

1 Egg cts. 

Rind V2 Orange cts. 

14 Cup Orange Juice cts. 

1 Teaspoon Lemon Juice cts. 

Cost of Preparing Home Recipe of Orange Frosting : 

Materials: Cost. 

1 Tablespoon Orange Juice cts. 

1 Teaspoon Lemon Juice cts. 

Yolk 1 Egg cts. 

Confectioners' Sugar cts. 

Grated Rind 1 Orange cts. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

^ Cup Butter. 

1 Cup Sugar. 

2 Eggs. 

1/2 Cup Milk. 
IV2 Cups Flour. 
214 Teaspoons Baking Powder. 
2 Ounces Bitter Chocolate. 

V2 Teaspoon Vanilla. 

Cream the butter ; add sugar gradually, eggs well beaten, and milk. Add 
flour mixed and sifted with baking powder. Beat thoroughly, then add choco- 
late and vanilla. Bake in layers. Frost with White IMonntain Cream Frosting 
to which 3 tablespoons of grated chocolate has been added. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



201 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In today's Lesson you are to prepare the layer cake mixture. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Butter or grease your pie tin. 

Dust it with flour. 

Measure the butter into your bowl, and cream 



it by working it or stirring it with your wooden 
spoon. (See FIGURE 1.) 

Add the sugar gradually, continue stirring until 
all is creamy and all of the sugar is added. 

Add the beaten egg, orange rind and milk. 

Measure, mix and sift the flour and baking 
powder into the sugar mixture. (See FIGURE 2.) 

Beat until perfectly smooth and thoroughly 
mixed. 

Drop mixture into your greased pie tin. Spread 
mixture so that it will come a little higher near the 
edges as it is apt to rise too much in the center. 
Do not fill pie tin more than % full. If any mixture 
is left over bake it in the individual muffin tin. 

Put your name Avritten on a piece of paper on 
top. (See FIGURE 3.) 

Put pie tin on baking sheet. 




FIGURE 1. 




FIGURE 2. 




FIGURE 3. 



Bake in oven about 8 minutes or until a light brown and until mixture 
shrinks from sides of pan. Be sure that it is done. 

Turn out on your plate. When cool, cut it in halves with the tines of a 
fork. Cutting fresh cake with a knife Avill make it heavy along the line on 
which it is cut. 

Your partner will spread it with filling and frosting. 

You are to WIPE the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 



202 



COOKING— BOOK T^yO 



HOME RECIPES. 
ORANGE CAKE. 



MATERIALS: 

1/4 Cup Butter. 

1 Cup Sugar. 

2 Eggs. 

Riud V2 Orauge. 



1/2 Cup Milk. 
1% Cups Flour. 
214 Teaspoous Baking Powder. 




Cream the butter; add sugar gradually, eggs well beateu, and milk. Then 
add flour, mixed and sifted with baking powder and orange rind. Bake in 
round layer cake pans. Put Orange Filling between layers, and cover top 
with Orange Frosting. 

]\Iay be baked in individual tins and frosted with confectioners' or White 
Mountain Cream Frosting. Decorate with nuts, angelica, candied cherries, etc. 

ORANGE FILLING. 

1/2 Cup Sugar. 
2 Tablespoons Flour. 
1 Egg slightly beaten. 
Grated Rind I/2 Orange. 
V4 Cup Orange Juice. 

1 Teaspoon Lemon Juice. 
Mix sugar and flour ; add other ingredients in order given. Cook 10 
minutes in a double boiler, stirring constantly. Cool before spreading. 

ORANGE FROSTING. 

1 Tablespoon Orange Juice. 
1 Teaspoon Lemon Juice. 
Yolk 1 Egg. 
ConfeetioiuM's' Sugar. 
Grated Rind 1 Orange. 
Add rind to the fruit juices; let stand 15 minutes, strain and add gradu- 
ally to yolk of egg slightly beaten. Stir in sugar until of right consistency 
to spread. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 201 



QUESTIONS. 

1. How do you cream butter? 

2. Why cream butter before the sugar? 

3. How would you get ready for making cake? 

4. What is the best kind of flour to use for cake ? Why ? 

5. How do you prepare the pans for baking? 

6. How can you test the oven? 

7. How can you tell when the cake is done? 

8. If cake should stick to the pan what can you do to loosen it? 

9. Would you consider cake a staple food or a luxury? 

10. What may be used for shortening in cake making? 

11. How may a cake mixture be varied? 

12. What is the difference between a plain and a chocolate cake? 

13. How would you make Orange Filling? 

14. How would you make Orange Frosting? 

15. How would you make Chocolate Cake? 



204 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE. 

1 Cup Scalded Milk. Vi Cup Lukewarm Water. 
1/3 Cup Shortening. 1 Well Beaten Egg. 

l^ Cup Sugar. 1/2 Cup Raisins, cleaned and stoned. 

y2 Teaspoon Salt. V4 Cup Citron, cut in small pieces. 

^ Yeast Cake, mixed with Flour. 

Put the shortening, sugar and salt in a bowl, add the scalded milk. 
When lukewarm add the yeast cake mixture, egg, flour to make a stiff batter, 
raisins and citron. Beat vigorously, cover and let rise over night. In the 
morning beat again, drop mixture into a Avell greased shallow pan. Spread 
with egg mixture. Mix 1 well beaten egg, V3 cup sugar, V3 cup flour, 1 
teaspoon cinnamon and 3 tablespoons melted butter. Allow cake mixture to 
rise to double its bulk, then bake about 30 minutes or until done. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

2 Tablespoons Butter. I/2 Yeast Cake, mixed with 
^ Cup Sugar. 14 Cup Lukewarm Water. 
y2 Teaspoon Salt. Flour to make a dough. 

1 Cup Scalded Milk. 1 or 2 Beaten Eggs. 

Put butter, sugar and salt in a bowl. Pour on the scalded milk. When 
lukewarm, add the yeast cake mixture. Add flour to make a dough stifi 
enough to knead, cover and let rise double its bulk. Work tTie egg into the 
mixture. Sliape, place on floured board, let rise 1 hour, turn and let rise 
again; fry in deep fat, drain on paper, cool and roll in powdered sugar. 

SALLY LUNN. 

2 Tablespoons Butter. Y^ Cup Lukewarm Water. 

1 Tablespoon Sugar. 1 Beaten Egg. 
1/2 Teaspoon Salt. 2 Cups Flour. 
^ Yeast Cake, mixed Avith 

Combine ingredients according to rule for yeast mixtures. Pour into 
greased pan after first rising. Sprinkle with sugar after second rising and 
bake. 

CINNAMON BUNS AND ROLLS. 

2 Cups Milk. 1 Yeast Cake, mixed with 
V2 Cup Butter. V4 Cup Lukewarm Water. 

2 Tablespoons Sugar. 2 Eggs. 

Flour to make a soft dough- 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



20: 



CAKE MAKING. 

PREPARATION OF WHITE CAKE. 

Small cakes are more economical than large cakes because a little mix- 
ture will make many small cakes. If the small round cupped iron pans 
are used, a single recipe will make 40 or more cakes. 



School Recipe. 



MATERIALS: WHITE CAKE. 
1 Tablespoon Butter. 
3 Tablespoons Sugar. 
11/2 Tablespoons Milk. 
5 Tablespoons Pastry Flour. 
V2 Teaspoon Baking Powder. 
1/2 Beaten White of Egg. 



1/6 Teaspoon Vanilla. 

2 Tablespoons Boiling Water. 
White Mountain Cream Frosting; 

1/2 Cup Sugar. 

1/2 Beaten White. 





SMALL CAKES. 

The recipes given for cake may be used in the making of small cakes. 
Mix the ingredients according to the recipe. Bake in small tins. Cool and 
frost Avith any kind of frosting. Decorate with Avalnuts, citron strips, raisins, 
dates, figs, candied fruit or angelica. 

The above are baked in round muffin tins. 



206 COOKING— BOOK TWO 



POINTS TO BE REMEMBERED IN CAKE MAKING: 

Liquids used are water, milk, molasses, coffee, eggs, etc. 

The fats, called shortening, include butter, butterine, lard, chicken fat, 
3ottolene, coto-suet, crisco, etc. 

They are included among the liquids, as fat melts when heated. 

The sugar should be fine granulated or powdered. 

The flour should be pastry flour as it requires less shortening than bread 
flour. 

High Grade Baking Powder should be used. Review notes on Baking 
Powder. 

If sour milk or cream is used, soda should be used. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

1. Get all the utensils and materials ready. Have a plate on which to 
lay sticky spoons, etc. 

2. Light the oven. 

3. Grease and flour the tins. 

4. Measure and mix the ingredients. Test the oven before adding the 
flour. 

NOTE : Sift the flour before measuring. Mix and sift the flour and baking 
powder before adding to mixture. A butter cake requires from I/3 to V^ ^^ 
much butter as sugar and about ^2 ^^ much liquid as flour. A cake with fruit 
should be a little stiffer than one without. 



COOK I XG— BOOK TWO 



207 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 



In today's lesson you are to pi-epai'e the cake, while your ])artnei' jire- 
pares the frosting. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 



Grease the tin. (See FIGURE 1.) Sprinkle it 
with flour. 

Measure the butter into your bowl. Let your 
partner cream it with a wooden spoon. Measure 
and .add the sugar gradually, while your partner 
continues stirring until all is creamv. 




FIGURE 1. 



Measure, mix and sift the flour and baking 
powder. (See FIGURE 2.) 

Measure the milk. Add Yq of it to the creamed 
butter. Add 1/2 of the sifted flour; beat mixture 
thoroiig"hly. Add the remaining 1/2 of milk and the 
remaining 1/4 of sifted flour. Beat thoroug'hly. 

Fold in 14 of the stiffly beaten white prepared 
by your partner; add the vanilla. 

Spread mixture in tin, pushing it well away 
from the middle. 




FIGURE 2. 



Place tin on a baking sheet with vour name on 



top. 



Bake 10 minutes, or until done, in a moderately 
hot oven. (See FIGURE 3). Cool. Cut in halves 
with fork tines. 




FIGURE 3. 



Pass it to your partner. 

You are to WIPE the dishes today according' to directions already 
learned. 



208 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 



WHITE CAKE. 



1/2 Cup Butter. 
IV2 Cups Sugar. 

2/3 Cup Milk. 
21/3 Cups Flour. 



3 Teaspoons Baking Powder. 
White 4 Eggs. 
V/2 Teaspoons Vanilla. 





COCOANUT CAKE. 

Cream the butter; add sugar gradually, then milk alternately with the 
flour sifted with the baking powder. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites. Add 
the flavoring and bake in layers. Frost Avith White Mountain Cream Frosting. 

If cocoanut frosting is desired, add cocoanut to frosting before spreading 
the cake. 

Cost of preparing Home Recipe of White Cake : 
Materials : Cost. 

V2 Cup Butter •. cts. 

IV^ Cups Sugar cts. 

2/3 Cup Milk cts. 

21/3 Cups Flour cts. 

3 Teaspoons Baking Powder cts. 

Whites 4 Eggs cts. 

IV2 Teaspoons Vanilla cts. 



COOKIXG—B(JOK TWO 



209 




FIGURE 1. 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In today's lesson you are to prepare the frosting, and assist your partner 
to mix the cake. 



See Recipe on Front Page. 

Help your partner with the mixing of the cake 
mixture. Cream the butter, then cream the butter 
and sugar. Do not cook the frosting until after the 
cake is out of the oven. 

Have a bowl of cold water near at hand. 

Measure the boiling water and sugar into your 
saucepan. Place the saucepan over the fire just as 
the cake is taken out of the oven. Beat the white of 
an egg on your plate. Give V2 to your partner and 
keep the othei- 14 for frosting. 

Watch the boiling syrup carefully. Drop a small 
amount in cold water. Pick it up with your fingers 
(see FIGURE 1)— if it can be taken up and if it 
feels gummy, remove syrup from fire immediately. 

Another test is to dip a fork into the boiling 
syrup, and if it forms a 2 inch thread, it is just 
right to remove from tlie fire. If it cooks longer, 
frosting will be sug-ary. 



Pour syrup into beaten white very slowly, and continue beating it while 
adding the syrup. Beat (see FIGURE 2) until it is thick enough to spread 
without running. If beaten too long or not put onto the cake quickly enough, 
it will suffar. 




FIGURE 2. 



Frost the bottom of 1 half layer, put the bottom of the other half on 
the top of it. Frost top of cake. 

You are to WASH the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 



210 



COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 



y4, Cup Butter. 
1/2 Cup Sugar. 
1 Eao-. 



HOME RECIPES. 

PLAIN CAKE. 

1/2 Cup Milk. 
11/2 Cups Flour. 
214 Teaspoons Baking Powder. 



Cream the butter; add sugar gradually and egg well beaten. Mix and sift 
flour and baking poAvder ; add alternately with mixture. Bake 30 minutes in a 
shallow^ pan. 




PLAIN FROSTING. 

White 1 Egg. y2 Teaspoon Yanilla. 

2 Teaspoons Cold Water. % Cup Confectioners' Sugar. 

Beat the white of an egg until stiff; add water and sugar gradually. 
Beat thoroughly and add the flavoring. Use more sugar if needed. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CREAM. 



1 Teaspoon Vanilla. 
14 Tablespoon Lemon Juice. 



1 Cup Sugar. 
Yz Cup Boiling Water. 
White 1 Egg. 
Boil sugar and water in a saucepan until it "spins a thread" 2 inches 
long, or until it forms a soft ball in cold water. Pour syrup gradually into 
beaten white of egg; beat constantly until of right consistency to spread. 
Add flavoring and pour over cake. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 



1 Teaspoon Butter. 
14 Teaspoon Vanilla. 



IV2 Cups Sugar. 
2/3 Cup Milk. 
1 Square Chocolate. 
Put butter in a saucepan ; when melted, add the sugar and milk and 
chocolate. Boil 13 minutes, or until it makes a Yevy soft ball when tried in 
cold water. Cool. Beat until creamy. Add flavoring and pour over cake. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 211 



QUESTIONS. 

1. Name liquids used in cake making. 

2. Name fats that may be used in cake making. 

3. What are they called? 

4. What kind of sugar is usually used? 

5. What kind of flour is considered best for cake making? Why? 

6. Why is baking powder used? 

7. What is the action of baking powder? 

8. Give general directions for cake making, 

9. Name 4 kinds of cake mixtures. 

10. Name 3 ways of baking cake mixtures. 

11. Name 3 kinds of fillings. 

12. Name 3 kinds of frostings. 

13. Give general directions for mixing ingredients. 

14. What is the difference between this and the quick cake mixtures. 

15. How do you test frosting when it is ready to remove from the fire? 



212 COOKING— BOOK TWO 



SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

Quick cakes are the most economical cakes as to ingredients and time of 
labor in their preparation. 

Sponge and angel cake mixtures (butterless cakes) are the most whole- 
some and nutritious cake mixtures because they are rich in eggs. 

Rich butter cakes are more difficult of digestion. 

Only the best ingredients should be used in cake making. Rancid butter 
should never be used in batters and doughs. If it is unfit to use on bread it 
is also unfit to use in mixtures where the flavor may be disguised, but where 
its indigestibility is not decreased. 

Mixtures rich in sugar should always be served at the close of the meal, 
when there is not such a temptation to indulge too much. We need some 
sweets. Sugar is the greatest energy producing food, and children have a 
natural craving for some sweet food. This should be provided in the most 
wholesome form. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



213 



COOKIES. 

PREPARATION OF DROP NUT COOKIES. 

There are all sorts of cookies — plain and rich. The ingredients, when 
properly combined and cooked, furnish a good, wholesome, sweet food. They 
should not be eaten too freely, or the excess of sweet may result in indi- 
gestion. 



DROP COOKIES. 


School Recipe. 


MATERIALS: 




PEANUT COOKIES. 


BOSTON COOKIES. 


1/2 Tablespoon Butter. 


% Tablespoon Butter. 


1 Tablespoon Sugar. 


1/2 Tablespoon Sugar. 


1 Tablespoon Beaten Egg. 


2 Teaspoons Beaten Egg. 


2 Tablespoons Flour. 


1/16 Teaspoon Soda. 


14 Teaspoon Baking Powder. 


1/3 Teaspoon Hot Water. 


Few Grains Salt. 


31/2 Tablespoons Flour. 


2 Level Teaspoons Milk. 


Few Grains Salt. 


3 Tablespoons Finely Chopped 


1/^ Teaspoon Cinnamon. 


Peanuts. 


1 Tablespoon Chopped Nuts. 


Vs Teaspoon Lemon Juice. 


1/2 Tablespoon Chopped Raisins. 



.iSf-^C^S?'' 





NUT COOKIES. 

Nuts are highly nutritious, as they are rich in protein and fats. They are 
used by vegeterians in place of meat. Peanuts are rich in protein, and furnish 
a large proportion of nourishment. They make a nice addition to the lunch box. 



214 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



FOOD VALUE OF NUTS. 

The term nut is applied indiscriminately to a variety of fruits or parts 
of fruit having a woody covering enclosing a meaty kernel. 

They differ from fruits in that they are so highly nutritious. Bulk for 
bulk, they are among the most nutritive foods nature has given us. To a cer- 
tain extent, they may be considered valuable meat substitutes. As the table 
below shows, they are rich in fat; in protein the most commonly used range 
from 3 to 30 per cent, in carbohydrate from 5 to 40 per cent. (Table.) U. S. 
Department of Agriculture, M. E. Jaffa. Nuts, as a rule, are not readily di- 
gested in the stomach. The reasons given for this is their concentration in 
fat and cellulose, the latter of Avhich forms the compact framework through- 
out their structure. To overcome this, nuts should be either thoroughly mas- 
ticated, or finely ground before being served. 

Experiments prove that the finer the subdivision of the nut meat the 
easier, more rapid and more complete is their digestion and assimilation. They 
should be regarded as a highly nutritious food and eaten as such, and furnish 
a part, not an addition, to a hearty meal. 



U. S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. FARMERS BULLETIN 332. 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF NUTS AND NUT PRODUCTS. 





Refuse 


Edible Portion 




Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbohydrates 


Ash 




Kind of Food 


Sugar, 

Starch, 

etc. 


Crude 
Fiber 


Fuel 
Value 

per 
Pound 




cr 


% 


% 


"^p 


% 1 % 


% 


Calories 


Nut and Nut Products: 

Acorn , fresh 

Almond 


17. ?0 

47.00 
36 90 
40 35 
86 40 


34.7 
4.9 
6.6 
4.7 
4.5 
5.9 

43.4 

10 6 
13.0 
5 4 
3.7 
7.4 

3 4 
3.4 

6.2 

4 2 
3.4 
2.1 
3.9 
3.0 

92.7 
3 5 


4.4 
21.4 
21.8 
17.4 
27 9 
21 4 

6.4 

10 9 
6.6 
16.5 
15 4 
29.8 
12 1 
14.6 

33.9 
22.6 
18 2 
29 3 

2.4 

10 3 

.4 

6.3 


4 7 
54.4 
49.9 
65.0 
61 2 
61.7 

6.0 

56^2 
64.0 
67.4 
43.5 
70.7 
61.9 

48.2 
54 5 
60.7 
46.5 
11.9 
16.6 
1.5 
57.4 


50.4 4.2 
13.8 3.0 

18.0 
5.7 1 3.9 


16 

2 5 
3.7 

3 3 
3.0 
3 3 
14 

2.6 
1.6 
2.4 
2.1 

2 2 
1.6 
2.8 

3.8 

3 1 
1.7 
5.0 

.6 
1.1 

.8 
1.3 


1,265 
2,895 
2,740 




3,120 


Butternut 


a 

4.9 
41.3 

73. S 
13.7 


.4 

2.8 
1.5 

1.4 

8.9 


3,370 
3,120 


Chestnut, fresh 

Horn Chestnut or Water 


15.70 


1,140 
1,.540 




34.66 
52 08 
62 20 
27.04 
SO 10 
40.60 


2,805 


Filbert 


11.7 

11.4 
14 7 2.4 
8.5 3.7 
17.3 

6.5 1.4 

15 6 
13.7 1 2.3 

17.1 

76.7 4 5 

66.9 2 1 

4 6 

31.5 


3,100 




3,345 




2,610 




3,300 




3,205 


Pine nut, Spanish or pignolia, 

(shelled) 


2,710 






3,250 


Walnut 


58.80 


3,075 
2,825 






2,000 




2,115 




155 




3,125 











COOK I SO— HOOK r^vo 



215 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FURNISHED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 



Ill today's lesson you are to prepare the peanut cookies, while your part- 
ner prepares the Boston cookies. 



See Recipe on Front Page. 

Measure the Initter into your bowl. 

Work it Avith your w^ooden spoon until creamy. 

Measure and add the sugar iii-adually. 

Measure and add the well beaten egg. Beat 
until creamv, then add the milk. 




FIGURE 1. 



Measure, mix and sift the flour, baking powder 
and salt. Add it to the butter and sugar mixture. 
See FIGURE 1. 

Measure and add the peanuts and lemon .juice. 
Beat the mixture thoroughly. 

Drop mixture by teaspoonfuls onto an unbut- 
tered pan about 2 inches apart. See FIGURE 2. 




FIGURE 2. 



Put ^2 pciinut on top of each in the center. 



Bake from 12 to 15 minutes in a slow OA'en. 



You are to WIPE the dishes today, according- to directions already 
learned. 



216 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 
PEANUT COOKIES. 



MATERIALS: 

2 Tablespoons Butter. 
Y^ Cup Sugar. 

1 Egg, Well Beaten. 
1/2 Cup Flour. 
14 Teaspoon Lemon Juice. 



1 Teaspoon Baking Powder. 
14 Teaspoon Salt. 
21/2 Tablespoons Milk. 
% Cup Chopped Peanuts. 




WORKING DIRECTIONS. 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually; add well beaten egg. Mix and 
sift baking powder, salt and flour ; add to first mixture ; then add milk, pea- 
nuts and lemon juice. Drop from the tip of a spoon on an unbuttered baking 
sheet 1 inch apart, and place I/2 peaunt on top of each. Bake 12 to 15 minutes 
in a slow oven. This makes 24 cookies. 



Cost of preparing Home Recipe for Peanut Cookies: 
Materials : Cost. 

2 Tablespoons Butter cts. 

14 Cup Sugar cts. 

1 Egg • cts. 

1/2 Cup Flour cts. 

• 1 Teaspoon Baking Powder cts. 

14 Teaspoon Salt cts. 

21/2 Tablespoons Milk cts. 

% Cup Chopped Nuts cts. 

V2 Teaspoon Lemon Juice cts. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



217 




WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In today's lesson you are to prepare the Boston Cookies. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 



Measure and cut the raisins (see FIGURE 1 > 
and nuts into small pieces. 

Measure the butter into your bowl. (See FIG- 
URE 2.) Cream it with a wooden spoon. 

Add sugar gradually, continue creaming. 

Measure and add the beaten egg. 

Beat until creamy, measure the hot water, add 
soda to it and pour it into the creamed sugar mix- 
ture. 

Measure, mix and sift the flour, salt and cinna- 
mon, add 1/4 of it to the creamed sugar mixture. 
Add the nuts and raisins to the remaining half and 
cut it in with a knife. 



FIGURE 1. 




FIGURE 2. 




FIGURE 3. 



Drop mixture by teaspoonfuls onto a buttered baking sheet. Drop these 
about 2 inches apart. See FIGURE 3. 

Bake in a moderately hot oven about 15 minutes. 

You are to WASH the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 



218 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



HOME RECIPES. 



BOSTON COOKIES. 



MATERIALS : 

2/3 Cup Butter. 

1 Cup Sugar. 

2 Eggs. 

% Teaspoon Soda. 
1 Tablespoon Hot Water. 



214 Cups Flour. 
1/3 Teaspoon Salt. 

1 Teaspoon Cinnamon. 
1/2 to 1 Cup Chopped Nuts. 
/'3 Cup Raisins. 




WORKING DIRECTIONS. 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, and eggs well beaten. Add soda 
dissolved in water, I/2 flour mixed and sifted with salt and cinnamon. Then 
add nut meat and fruit mixed with remaining flour. Drop by spoonfuls onto 
a buttered tin, 1 inch apart, and bake in a moderately hot oven. 



ALMOND COOKIES. 



1/2 Cup Butter. 
V2 Cup Sugar. 

1 Beaten Egg. 
V2 Cup Finely Chopped Almonds. 

1 Teaspoon Cinnamon. 



1/^ Teaspoon Cloves. 

Grated Rind I/2 Lemon. 

2 Tablespoons Lemon Juice. 
14 Teaspoon Soda. 

2 Cups Flour. 



Cream the butter, add the sugai" gradually, add well l)eaten eggs, chopped 
almonds, lemon rind, lemon juice, flour, seasonings and soda mixed and sifted. 
Roll to 14 inch thickness, cut into desired shapes and bake in a moderate oven. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 219 



QUESTIONS. 

1. "Why are nut cookies nourishing'' 

2. For what may nuts be substituted in our diet? 

3. In what food element are nuts rich? 

4. How should nuts be prepared for eating? 

5. Name 3 kinds of nuts and their composition. 

6. Name 3 recipes prepared with nuts. 

7. Were your cookies good today? 

8. Under what food heading does sugar belong? 

9. What does sugar do in the body? 

10. In what are nuts rich? 

11. What is the chief duty of proteins in the body? 

12. What is the chief duty of fat in the body? 

13. What is the chief duty of carbohydrates in the body' 

14. Name 3 carbohydrate foods. 

15. Name 3 protein foods. 



220 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

WALNUT BREAD. 

4 Cups Flour. V2 Cup Raisins. 

V/2 Tablespoons Baking Powder. % Cup Sugar. 

14 Teaspoon Salt. 1 Beaten Egg. 

1 Cup Chopped Walnuts. II/2 Cups Milk. 

Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt. To V2 of it add the nuts and 
raisins, mix. To the beaten egg add the sugar gradually, continue beating, 
then add the milk. Add this to the remaining sifted flour ; stir in the floured 
raisins and nuts. Put in well greased pans, let stand 20 minutes and bake 
60 minutes in a moderate oven. 

VEGETARIAN MEAT LOAF. 

2 Cups Dried Crumbs. 1 Teaspoon Salt. 

1 Cup Nut Butter. Vs Teaspoon Celery Salt. 

1 Beaten Egg. Few Grains Pepper. 

V2 Teaspoon Sage. 1 Tablespoon Chopped Parsley. 

Milk or water to moisten. 

Mix ingredients in order given. Knead and shape into a loaf, put into a 
well greased pan; bake, basting often. 

NUT SOUFFLE. 

2 Cups Soft Bread Crumbs. 1 Teaspoon Salt. 

1 Cup Scalded Milk. Few Grains Pepper. 

1 Cup Finely Chopped Nuts. 5 Beaten Whites of Eggs. 

Cook and stir the crumbs and milk over the fire until smooth; remove 
from fire, add the seasonings and nutmeats. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites. 
Turn into a well greased baking dish and bake in a quick oven until puffy and 
quite firm, about 15 minutes. Serve at once. 

NUT CHEESE. 

1/2 Cup Almonds. 1 Cup Filberts. 

1 Cup Roasted Peanuts. 1 Cup Pecans. 

1 Cup Pine Nuts. 
Raisins, figs and dates forced through a chopper, may be added, using 1/2 
cupful of each. Knead, then pack in glass jars. This may be used for sand- 
wich fillings or sliced and served as meat. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



221 



COOKIES AND BEVERAGES. 

PREPARATION OF ROLLED COOKIES. 

All batters and doughs are more or less alike. Cookie mixtures are really 
stiff cake mixtures. Usually too much flour is added to cookie mixtures — this 
does not make as good cookies as when less flour is used. 



ROLLED COOKIES. 



MATERIALS : 

SUGAR COOKIES. 



V2 


Tablespoon 


Butter. 




1 


Tablespoon 


Sugar. 




V2 


Tablespoon 


Beaten E^g. 




Vi 


Teaspoon Milk. 




3 


Tablespoons 


! Flour (plus enough 




to make a 


dough). 




3,16 


Teaspoon Baking- Powder. 






Few Grains 


; Salt. 






Few Grains 


Nutmeg. 





COFFEE. 

2 Level Tablespoons Coffee. 
1 Teaspoon Beaten Egg. 
1 Tablespoon Cold Water. 
1 Cup Boiling Water. 




SUGAR COOKIES. 

The above recipe is for plaiu sugar cookies; richer cookies may be made 
by using more shortening. The recipe may be varied by the addition of spices, 
coeoanut, chocolate, etc. A design may be made on top by the use of raisins, 
almonds, citron or small candies. 



222 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

BEVERAGES. 

A beverage is any drink. All beverages contain a large percentage of 
water. 

Use freshly boiled water for making hot beverages. 

Use freshly drawn water for making cold beverages. 

Beverages are : 1. Water. 2. Natural Fruit Juices. 3. Aromatics. Ex- 
amples: Tea, coffee, cocoa, chocolate. 

TEA. 

Tea is a native of China, Japan and Northeast India, but is grown in 
this country — ex.. South Carolina. 

Tea is made from the leaves of an evergreen plant. 

Tea leaves have to be wilted, rolled and dried by artificial heat in order 
to develop their Havor. 

Green Tea is made from freshly picked young leaves, which are prepared 
by drying them by heat or steam ; later they are sweated or roasted soon after 
gathering. Example : Gunpowder, Hyson and Japan. 

Black Tea is made from the leaves left in a heap on the ground in the 
sun, allowing them to ferment, in order to darken and develop a different 
flavor before being rolled. Example : Oolong, English Breakfast, etc. 

Tea contains a stinnilating substance called THEIN, and TANNIN. 

Do not use a tin teapot, because of the tannin in the tea. 

Tea increases perspiration, and helps tired nerves to recover. 

People who do severe muscular labor are refreshed by a cup of tea. 

COFFEE. 

Coffee is made from the seeds of the coffee plant grown in Africa, Mocha, 
Costa Rica, Brazil, Ceylon and Jamaica. 

The seeds of the berries of the coffee trees are roasted in order to develop 
the aroma. 

COFFEE contains a stimulating substance called CAFFEINE, and 
TANNIN. Tannin is the injurious substance found in tea and coffee. It is 
extracted by boiling, therefore tea should always be infused and not allowed 
to boil or steep too long. Filtered coff'ee is preferable to boiled coffee. Chil- 
dren and young people who have not stopped growing should not drink tea or 
coffee. 

Tea and Coffee should never be taken on an empty stomach unless for 
medicinal purposes. 

COCOA AND CHOCOLATE. 

COCOA and Chocolate are prepared from the seeds of the cocoa beans 
dried and roasted. 

Cocoa Beans contain so much fat when ground they become not powder, 
but paste. This paste forms Chocolate. 

Cocoa is made by grinding the Cocoa Beans, extracting the oil, leaving 
a dry powder. 

Chocolate and Cocoa are a food as well as a stimulant. They contain 
theobromine, a substance similar to caff"eine. 



COOKING— BOOK T^yo 223 

WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In today's lesson yon are to cream the butter and sugar for the cookies 
and prepare the coffee. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 



Measure tlie butter and cream it with a wooden 
spoon in your bowl. (See FIGURE 1.) Add sugar 
gradually. Continue stirring until all the sugar is 
added. 

Pass it to your partner. 

Measure 1 cupful of water, put it over the fire 
to boil. See FIGURE 2. 




FIGURE 1. 



Measure 1 tablespoon of coft'ee into your cus- 
tard cup. Add the teaspoonful of egg mixed with 
1 tablespoon cold water. 

Add the coffee mixture to the boiling water in 
the saucepan over the fire. Cover closely; let boil 3 
minutes. 

Add 1 tablespoon cold water. Turn out the 
flame. Let stand 2 minutes. Pour into a heated cup. 




FIGURE 2. 



Serve some adult person, as children sliould drink neither tea nor coffee. 



Cream and sugar mav be added. 



You are to WASH the dishes today, according to directions already 
learned. 



224 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 



MATERIALS: 

1/2 Cup Butter. 

1 Cup Sugar. 

2 Eggs, beaten. 

2 Tablespooiis Milk. 



3 Cups Flour. 

2 Teaspoons Baking Powder. 
14 Teaspoon Salt. 
I/2 Teaspoon Grated Nutmeg. 




Sugar Cookies Cut Into Fancy Shapes. 



WORKING DIRECTIONS. 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually. Add well beaten eggs, milk, and 
the flour mixed and sifted with the baking powder and the nutmeg. Add 
flour to make a stift* dough. Place small portion of dough on a well-floured 
board, pat and roll to Vs iii^'li thickness. Cut, place on a buttered baking 
tin, and bake in a moderate oven until light brown. One egg may be omitted, 
and then less flour will be required. 



Cost of preparing Home Recipe of Sugar Cookies — I 
Materials : 

1/2 Cup Butter ' 

1 Cup Sugar 

2 Eggs 

2 Tablespoons Milk 

3 Cups Flour 

2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

1/4 Teaspoon Salt 

^2 Teaspoon Grated Nutmeg 



Cost. 

cts. 
cts. 
cts. 
cts. 
cts. 
cts. 
cts. 
cts. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



225 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In today's Lesson you are to finish preparing the cookies after your part- 
ner has creamed the butter and sugar. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Measure and add the beaten egg to your part- 
ner's mixture. Beat until creamy, measure and add 
the milk. 



Measure, mix and sift the flour, l)aking powder 
and spices. 

Add them to the butter and sugar mixture. 

Cut in enough flour (see FIGURE 1) so that 
the dough will not stick when touched gently witli 
your finger. 

Toss and roll out on a floured board. (See 
FIGURE 2.) 




FIGURE 1. 



Cut with a cutter dipped in flour. 



Place cookies on a buttered pan. 



Sprinkle with sugar. 

Bake in a moderately heated oven until a light 
brown. 




FIGURE 2. 



Serve your partner and yourself. 



You are to WIPE the dishes today, according- to directions already- 
learned. 



226 COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 

HOME RECIPES. 
SUGAR COOKIES— II. 

1 Cup Sugar. 1 Teaspoon Soda in 2 Tablespoons Milk. 

1/2 Cup Lard or Butter. 3 Eggs, beaten. 

1 Tablespoon Lemon Juice. Flour to make dough stilt' enough to roll. 
Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, and well beaten eggs, lemon juice, 

soda and milk, and enough sifted flour to roll. Cut and bake. 

Vanilla Cookies. 

Substitute! teaspoon vanilla for the nutmeg in Sugar Cookies I. 

Chocolate Cookies. 
Add 3 tablespoons grated chocolate or cocoa to Recipe I. 

Cocoanut Cookies. 
Add i/4> cup shredded cocoanut to the dr}- ingredients in Recipe I. Roll 14 
inch thick. 

BEVERAGES. 

TEA. 

To Make Tea. Allow 1 teaspoonful of tea to 1 cup of boiling water. Scald 
the teapot with boiling water, put in the teH, pour on the boiling water, and 
let it stand covered from 3 to 5 minutes. 

COFFEE. 

To make filtered coffee, allow 1 tablespoon of pulverized coffee to 1 cup 
boiling water. Scald the coffee pot. Put coffee in strainer and strainer in 
cott'ee pot; put on the range. Add gradually the boiling water and allow 
it to filter. Cover between additions of Avater. If desired stronger, refilter. 

BOILED COFFEE. 

2/3 Cup Cofl'ee. 1/2 Cup Cold Water. 1 Egg. 6 Cups Boiling Water. 

Scald graniteware coffee pot. Wash the egg, break and beat it slightly. 
Dilute with I/2 of cold water ; add crushed shell and mix with coff'ee. Turn 
into coff'ee pot ; pour on boiling water, and stir thoroughly. Place on fire 
and boil 3 minutes. If not boiled, coffee is cloudy ; if boiled too long, too 
much tannic acid is developed. The spout of the coffee pot should be stuffed 
with soft paper to prevent the escape of fragrant aroma. Add remaining 
water, let it stand 10 minutes on back of range. 

Left-over coff'ee may be used, if poured off the grounds immediately. 
Keep it in a cool place until needed. Never reheat coffee on the grounds. 

BREAKFAST COCOA. 

2 Cups Scalded Milk. Few Grains Salt. 2 to 4 Tablespoons Sugar. 

2 Cups Boiling Water. 2 Tablespoons Prepared Cocoa. 
Mix dry ingredients in saucepan ; stir in boiling water gradually and boil 
5 minutes ; add milk and cook 5 minutes longer, or until smooth and free from 
lumps. Mill with a Dover egg beater to prevent albuminous skin from 
forming. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 227 



QUESTIONS. 

1. What is meant by a beverage? 

2. What is meant by freshly drawn water? 

3. What is meant by freshly boiled water? 

4. Name four beverages. 

5. Where is tea grown? 

6. Is tea a stimulant or a nutrient? 

7. Where is coffee grown? 

8. Is coffee a stimulant or a nutrient? 

9. How would you prepare tea? 

10. How would .you prepare coffee? 

11. What is cocoa? 

12. What is chocolate? 

13. What is the difference between cocoa and chocolate? 

14. Are cocoa and chocolate nutrients or stimulants, or both? 



228 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

In this lesson you have been studying about different beverages and will 
find recipes given for the perparation of tea, coffee and cocoa. Below are a 
number of recipes for cooling, refreshing beverages prepared from fruit juices. 

LEMONADE. 

1/2 Lemon (Juice). % Cup Water. 

About 2 Tablespoons Sugar. 

Mix together and add chipped ice if desired. Stir well to dissolve the 
sugar. 

ORANGEADE. 

V2 Lemon (Juice). lYs Cups Water. 

1 Orange (Juice). About 3 Tablespoons Sugar. 

Prepared the same as lemonade. 

GRAPE JUICE. 

10 Pounds Grapes. 3 Pounds Sugar. 

1 Cup Water. 

Put grapes and water in granite or aluminum stew pan. Heat until stones 
and pulp separate ; let drain in jelly bag, add sugar, heat to boiling point, and 
bottle in sterilized bottles. After they are corked dip the corked end in 
melted paraffine to thoroughly seal. This may be diluted one-half with water 
when served. The sugar may be omitted and added to taste when the grape 
juice is served. 

FRUIT PUNCH. 

1 Cup Water. Juice 5 Lemons. 

2 Cups Sugar. Juice 5 Oranges. 

1 Cup Tea Infusion. 1 Can Grated Pineapple. 

1 Quart Apollinaris. 1 Cup Maraschino Cherries. 

2 Cups Strawberry Syrup. 

Make syrup by boiling water and sugar ten minutes ; add the strawberry 
syrup, lemon juice, orange juice and pinepaple; let stand thirty minutes to 
cool, strain, and add ice water to make one and one-half gallons of liquid. 
Add cherries and apollinaris. Serve in punch bowl with large piece of ice. 
This quantity will serve fifty. 

FRUIT PUNCH n. 

1 Quart Cold Water. 1/2 Cup Lemon Juice. 

2 Cups Sugar. ^ 1 Cup Orange Juice. 

2 Cups Chopped Pineapple. 1 Quart Bottle Grape Juice. 

Boil sugar, water and pineapple twenty minutes; add fruit juice, cool, 
strain and dilute with ice water. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



229 



PASTRY MAKING. 

PREPARATION OF TWO CRUST PIE. 

If pie is served, the crust should be made as tender and flaky as possible, 
as this is much more easily digested than tough, soggy pastry. 

As the crust is rather difficult of digestion, even at its very best, it is 
a wise plan to roll it as thin as possible, as less of it is consumed in a serving 
in this way. 



PASTRY. 



School Recipe. 
APPLE FILLING. 



MATERIALS: 

1/2 Cup Flour. 
1/6 Teaspoon Salt. 
2V^ Tablespoons Butter. 

About 1 Tablespoon 
Water. 
1 Large Apple. 
Few Grains Salt. 



MATERIALS: 

2 Tablespoons Sugar. 
14 Teaspoon Butter. 
Few Grains Cinnamon. 
Cold Few Grains Nutmeg. 

14 Teaspoon Lemon Juice. 
Few Gratings Lemon Rind. 




APPLE PIE. 

Pie is decidedly an American dish. It is. Avhen properly made, a jialatcible 
but not a wholesome dessert. 

But as long as we do have a pie occasionally, we sliould know how to 
make it right. It may be considered and used as a luxury, but not as a daily 
food. There are so many wholesome desserts to choose from that we ought 
to select pie as our dessert only occasionally. All the egg ;ind milk desserts 
and gelatine desserts are wholesome, nutritious, and palatable. 



230 COOKING— BOOK TWO 



PASTRY. 

Pastry, if it is to be served at all, should he light, tender and flaky. It 
is then more easily digested. 

Winter wheat flour, called pastry flour, should be used, as it makes the 
pastry more tender than bread flour. Less shortening is required when pastry 
flour is used, than when bread or spring wheat flour is used. 

The lightness of the pastry depends on the amount of air enclosed and its 
expansion in baking. 

The flakiness depends upon the number of layers of shortening and paste 
formed by folding and rolling. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

Use butter, lard or drippings for the shortening. 

Rub in shortening with the tips of the Angers or chop in with a knife. 
Add enough cold water to make a stifl: dough, using a knife for mixing. 
All the ingredients must be cold. 

Handle the dough as little as possible, and keep it as cold as possible, as 
heat melts the fat and makes it difficult to handle the dough. 
Use as little flour as possible during the rolling. 
Cut the pastry a little larger than the dish, to allow for shrinkage. 

RECIPE FOR PASTRY. 

IV2 Cups Flour. 1/2 Teaspoon Salt. Vs to 1/2 Cup Shortening. 
Cold Water to make a stifl' dougli (about 41/2 Tablespoons). 

Mix and sift flour and salt. Rub in shortening with tips of fingers or cut 
it into the flour with two knives. Add the cold water, using a knife for 
mixing. Knead the dough lightly into a ball. Cut in two ; roll into circular 
pieces to fit pie tin ; or 

Work 1/2 of the butter or shortening into the flour, add cold water to 
make a stiff' dough, as in Recipe 1. 

Toss on a floured board, roll out into a rectangular piece. Dot with re- 
maining 1/2 of butter. Fold or roll up like a jelly roll; cut in halves and roll 
out for top and bottom crust. 

This makes a flaky crust. The top crust should be gashed in several 
places to let out the steam. 

WHY FRIED FOOD AND PASTRY ARE HARD TO DIGEST. 

Fat is not acted upon by the saliva in the mouth nor the gastric juice 
in the stomach ; so, when particles of food which should be acted upon by 
these fluids are entirely coated with grease they cannot l>e reached, and there- 
fore enter the smaller intestines undigested. Here the fat is removed from 
them by the action of the pancreatic juices, which do their best to digest all, 
l)ut as they were not intended to do all the work, much of the food is passed 
on undigested. In pastry there is also another reason, namely, that so little 
water is added to the fat coated starch granules that they cannot swell and 
burst sufficiently. Starch grains must absorb water, swell and burst before 
they can be digested. 



COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 



231 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In today's lesson 3-on are to prepai-e tlie ai)ple filling while your iiartner 
prepares the pastry for the crust. 



See Recipe on Front Page. 

jMeasure the sugar, salt, cinnamon, nutmeg, 
lemon juice and rind into your saucer. Mix. 

Pare and core the apple (see FIGURE 1), cut 
it into eighths. 

Roll out y2 of pie crust to fit pie tin. (See FIG- 
URE 2.) 

Cover bottom of pie tin (see FIGURE 3), allow- 
ing crust to come over edge of tin. 

Cover the crust with apples. 

Spread the apples with the sugar mixture. Dot 
with butter. 

Pass it to your j[)artner. 

You are to WIPE the dishes today according- to ^ 
directions already learned. 



. V-.A 



FIGURE 1. 




n 






FIGURE 2. 




FIGURE 3. 



232 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 



RECIPE FOR PASTRY. 
MATERIALS: 

11/2 Cups Flour. Cold Water to make a stiff dough 

V^ Teaspoon Salt. (about 41/2 tablespoons). 

14 to V2 Cup Shortening. 

WORKING DIRECTIONS. 

Mix and sift flour and salt. Rub in or cut shortening into the flour 
with two knives. Add the cold water, using a knife for mixing. Knead the 
dough lightly into a ball. Cut in two : i-oll into circular pieces to fit pie tin. 




APPLE PIE. 
MATERIALS : 

5 Sour Apples. 1/4 Teaspoon Cinnamon. 

Vs Teaspoon Salt. 1 Teaspoon Lemon Juice. 

1/2 Cup Sug'^ar. 14 Teaspoon Nutmeg. 

1 Teaspoon Butter. 2 Gratings Lemon Rind. 

Line pie plate with paste. Pare, core and cut apples and fill the pie. Mix 
the dry ingredients and lemon juice and sprinkle over apples. Dot over with 
butter. Wet edges of under crust, cover with upper crust, pressing the edges 
close together. Bake in a hot oven 40 to 45 minutes, or until fruit is cooked. 

Cost of preparing Home Recipe of Pastry and Apple Pie : 
Materials : Cost. 

V/z Cups Flour cts. 

1/2 Teaspoon Salt cts. 

Vs to 14 Cup Shortening cts. 

5 Sour Apples cts. 

I/2 Cup Sugar cts. 

1 Teaspoon Butter cts. 

Seasonings cts. 

1 Teaspoon Lemon Juice cts. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



233 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In today's lesson you are to prepare the pastrj- 
for the pie. 

See Recipe oe Front Page. 

Measure, mix and sift the tlour and salt. 

Measure the butter and work it into the flour 
with a knife or tips of fingers. (See FIGURE 1.) 

Add the cold water gradually and mix with a 
knife, cuttina; to make a stiff doiigh. (See FIG- 
URE 2.) 

Do not add more water than just enough to 
hold the dough together. 

Toss on a floured board. 

Knead slightl.y. 

Divide into halves. 

Pass ^2 fo your partner. 







* 


■4] ■ 



Roll out the other 1/2 fo circular piece. Make 
incisions with the knife. (See FIGURE 3.) 

Moisten edges of under crust prepared by your 
partner. (See FIGURE 4.) 

Place top crust over under crust. 

Press edges with the fork tines dipped in flour. 
Trim off edges by cutting around with a knife. (See 
FIGURE 5.) Bake in a moderately hot oven 25 
minutes or until apples are tender and crust is 
nicely browned. 

You are to WASH the dishes today according to 
directions already learned. 




FIGURE 1. 




FIGURE 2. 




FIGURE 3. 



t__ 



FIGURE 4. 



FIGURE 5. 



234 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

HOME RECIPES. 




LEMON PIE. 
MATERIALS: 

1 Cup Sugar. 1 Teaspoon Butter. 

3 Tablespoons Cornstarch. 2 Egg Yolks. 

% Cup Boiling' Water. Juice 1 Lemon. 

Grated Rind 1 Lemon. 

WORKING DIRECTIONS. 

Mix cornstarch and sugar; add to boiling water, stirring constantly. 
Cook until clear; add the butter, beaten yolks, lemon juice and rind. Cool. 
Line plate with paste. Prick the paste and bake. Fill with lemon mixture, 
and cover with meringue and bake until meringue is brown. 

MERINGUE. 
MATERIALS: 

White 2 Eggs. V2 Tablespoon Lemon Juice. 

2 Tablespoons Sugar or Powdered Or 14 Teaspoon Vanilla. 

Sugar. 

WORKING DIRECTIONS. 

Beat the whites until stiff, fold in sugar, and add flavoring. 

RHUBARB PIE. 
MATERIALS: 

11/2 Cups Rhubarb. 1 Egg. 

1 Scant Cup Sugar. 2 Tablespoons Flour. 

WORKING DIRECTIONS. 

Skin and cut rhubarb in ^4 i^^ch pieces. Mix sugar and flour : add egg. 
Line a plate with crust, cover with rhubarb, spread with egg mixture; cover 
witli crust. Bake until fruit is cooked. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 235 



QUESTIONS. 

1. Is pie considered a wholesome dessert? 

2. Why do we serve pie? 

3. How should it be made? 

4. What kind of flour makes the best pie? 

5. Why is pastry flour more economical than bread flour for pies and 
cakes? 

6. Name 3 kinds of shortening that may be used for pie making. 

7. Name 2 reasons why pie crust is difficult to digest. 

8. Name 2 kinds of pie fllling. 

9. Which is better — a 2 or a 1 crust pie ■ Why ? 

10. What part of the pie is difficult of digestion f Why? 

11. How would you prepare lemon filling? 

12. How would you prepare meringue? 

13. How would you prepare rhul)arl) tilling? 



236 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

RAISIN PIE. 

1 Cup Sugar. Juice and Grated Rind 2 Lemons. 

4 Tablespoons Flour. 1 Cup Seeded Raisins. 

1 Cup Molasses. 1 Cup Water. 

Measure and mix the flour and sugar, add the molasses, water, lemon 
juice and rind and the seeded raisins. Line pie tin with pastry. Fill with the 
raisin mixture and then cover raisin mixture with pastry the same as apple pie. 

COCOANUT CREAM PIE. 

11/2 Cups Scalded Milk. 1 Tablespoon Butter. 

I/3 Cup Sugar. ^2 Cup Shredded Cocoanut. 

14 Teaspoon Salt. ^^2 Teaspoon A^anilla. 

3 Tablespoons Cornstarch. 3 Egg Whites. 

Yolks 3 Eggs. 3 Tablespoons Sugar. 

Add the sugar, cornstarch and salt to the yolks. Pour the scalded milk 
into this, return to double boiler, stir and cook until thickened. Add the 
butter, cocoanut and vanilla. Pour into a pie tin lined with pastry. Bake. 
Cover with Meringue. 

MERINGUE. 

Beat the egg whites until stiff, add the sugar gradually, continue beating, 
spread over pie, sprinkle with shredded cocoanut, brown in oven. 

MINCE PIE. 

Line pie tin with pastry, cover with mince meat mixture, cover with 
pastry, as in apple pie, and bake. 

MINCE MEAT. 

V/2 Cups Chopped Beef (roast or 14 Cup Syrup from Sweet Pickle 

steak). Jar. 

1 Pint Chopped Apple. 1 Teaspoon Salt. 

^ Cup Chopped Suet or V^ Cup 1 Teaspoon Mace. 

Butter. Grating of Nutmeg. 

114 Cups Sugar. 14 Teaspoon Cloves. 

1 Cup IMolasses. ^ Teaspoon Cinnamon. 

Grated Rind and Juice of 2 % Cup Raisins (Sultanas pre- 

Lemons. . f erred). 

Mix all together. Cook II/2 hours. Put in jars. Less spice may be used, 
or 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of "left-over" jelly may be added. This recipe makes 
3 pies. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



237 



POULTRY— PREPARATION OF SUITABLE COMBINATIONS. 

In today's lesson directions for roast chicken are given. The same direc- 
tions may be followed for the preparation of roast turkey, goose or duck. 
The main thing to remember in the roasting of meat is the cooking of the 
protein content. The meat is first exposed to a high temperature to sear the 
surface, and then lowered to finish cooking the albuminous juices. 



GLAZED SWEET POTATOES AND MINT JELLY. 



School Recipe. 



GLAZED SWEET POTATOES. 

MATERIALS: 

V2 Cooked Sweet Potato. 
1 Tablespoon Brown Sugar. 
1 Teaspoon Butter. 
Few Grains Salt. 



MINT JELLY. 
MATERIALS: 



2 Tablespoons Boiling Water. 
1 Teaspoon Gelatine. 
1 Tablespoon Cold Water. 
1 Tablespoon Lemon Juice. 
1 Tablespoon Sugar. 
1 Tablespoon Mint Leaves. 
1/0 Teaspoon Spinach Juice. 




ROAST CHICKEN— GLAZED SWEET POTATOES. 
CRANBERRY JELLY. 

This lesson gives directions for the preparation of a chicken. The same 
rule may be followed for the preparation of Roast Turkey. In Book One 
directions are given for making Cranberry Jelly, which is usually served with 
Roast Chicken and Roast Turkey. Glazed Sweet Potatoes and Mint Jelly are 
also good as a variety. 



238 COOKlXa—llOOK TWO 

POULTRY. 

SELECTING POULTRY, select a chicken with firm flesh, yellow skin 
and legs. 

A CHICKEN is knoAvn by soft feet, smooth skin and soft cartilage at 
end of breast bone. 

A YOUNG CHICKEN has an abundance of pin feathers. Long hairs 
denote age. 

Choose Spring Chicken for Broiling. A young, plump chicken for roast- 
ing. A fowl for stewing. 

To Dress and Clean Poultry. 

Pick out pin feathers, remove hairs and down by singeing over a flame. 
Cut oft' head, using a small-pointed knife or a cleaver. Cut through the skin 
around the leg, 11/2 inch below the leg joint, care being taken not to cut 
tendons, snap the bone and pull off foot if bird is young. If it is old, pull 
out tendons one at a time with a skewer or nail. 

Make a cut through the skin below the breast bone just large enough to 
admit the hand. Keep the fingers close to the breast bone until the heart 
and liver are reached, loosen on either side down toward the back. Loosen 
all membrane and remove entrails, gizzard, heart and liver. The lungs and 
kidneys lie in the hollow near the backbone and between the ribs. 

Cut off the neck close to the body, leaving enough skin to fasten under 
the back. Remove windpipe and the crop. Remove oil bag and wash bird 
by letting cold water run through it. (Do not soak the bird in cold water.) 
AVipe inside and outside with a damp cloth. 

To Clean Giblets. 

Cut the liver from the gall bladder, cut the heart open and remove the 
clotted blood. Cut the outer coat of the gizzard and draw it oft", leaving the 
sac containing the sand, etc. Wash and cook in boiling, salted water. 

To Stuff Poultry. 

Use enough stuffing to fill the skin, that the bird may look plump when 
sewed. Where cracker stuffing is used, allowance must be made for the swell- 
ing of the crumbs. Sew the skin or use skewers. 

To Truss Poultry. 

Draw the thighs and wings close to the body, and fasten with steel 
skewers, or tie with a string. ' Fasten the neck skin under the back. 



COOKIXG—BOOK TWO 



239 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In today's lesson you are to prepare the Mint Jelly. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Pour the boiling water with the mint leaves into 
a saucepan. Let stand 5 minutes over a low flame. 

Measure the gelatine into your custard cup. 
Cover it with and soak it in the cold water. 

Let stand 5 minutes. 

Add the lemon juice and sugar. 

Put strainer over custard cup. 

Pour mint leaves and hot water into strainer, al- 
lowing the water to run through into the custard 
cup. (See FIGURE 1.) Add spinach juice to color 
the jelly green. 

Place custard cup in a saucepan containing boil- 
ing water and let stand until gelatine is dissolved. 




FIGURE 1. 




FIGURE 2. 



Pour into a custard cup rinsed in cold water. Let stand until firm in 
cold water. 

Turn upside down (see FIGURE 2) and if jelly does riot come out easily, 
wring out cloth in hot water. Hold it over the cup and it will come out. 

You are to WASH the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 



240 COOKING— BOOK TWO 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 

GLAZED SWEET POTATOES. 
MATERIALS: 

6 Cooked Sweet Potatoes. ^ Teaspoon Salt. 

1/3 Cup Brown Sugar. 1 Tablespoon Butter. 

WORKING DIRECTIONS. 

Cream the butter ; add sugar gradually ; add salt ; cut cooked sweet pota- 
toes into thick slices lengthwise or crosswise or into cubes. Arrange in but- 
tered baking dish; spread with sugar mixture. Bake in oven until a golden 
brown. 

MINT JELLY. 
MATERIALS: 

2 Tablespoons Granulated Gelatine. 1 Cup Sugar. 
1/2 Cup Cold Water. ^4 Cup Lemon Juice. 

2 Cups Boiling Water. 1 Bunch Mint Leaves. 

Spinach Juice to Color. 

Soak gelatine in the cold water for 20 minutes. Wash, dry and remove 
leaves from stalk — chop leaves and add to the 2 cups of water. Let come to 
a boil. Strain; pour boiling water into the soaked gelatine. Add sugar, 
lemon juice and spinach juice to color it green. Stir occasionally until gela- 
tine is dissolved. Rinse molds in cold water, pour in the jelly mixture; put 
in a cold place — to stiffen. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



241 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 

In today's lesson you are to prepare the Glazed Sweet Potatoes. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Cut the cooked sweet potato into slices or cubes. 
vSee FIGURE 1.) 

Butter your pie tin. 

Place slices on pie tin. (See FIGURE 1.) 

Cream the butter and sugar and salt. 

Spread butter and sugar mixture on the Sweet 

Potatoes. „,„„.„„ ^ 

FIGURE 1. 

Bake in the oven until a golden brown. 
Serve your partner and yourself. 

You are to WIPE the dishes today according to directions already 
learned. 




242 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

HOME RECIPES. 
ROAST CHICKEN. 

Dress, Clean, Stuff and Truss a Chicken. 

Place on its back on a rack in a dripping pan (or on thin slices of pork 
fat in a pan a trifle larger than the chicken). Rnb the entire surface with salt 
and spread legs and breast with 3 tablespoons of butter or melted chicken 
fat and 3 tablespoons of tiour. Place in a hot oven, and when flour is well 
browned, reduce the heat and baste every 10 minutes if not roasted in a 
self-basting pan. 

For basting, take 4 tablespoons of tbe fat in the pan, and mix with 1 cup 
boiling water. 

A 4 pound chicken requires about iy2 hours. 

For the stuffing, the chicken fat may be melted and used in place of tlie 
butter. 

Stuffing-.— I. 

1 Cup Cracker or Bread Crumbs. P^ew Grains Pepper. 
l^ Cup Melted Butter. Vs Cup ]\Iilk (ScaUled). 

Sage (if liked). 1 Teaspoon Cbopped Parsley. 

y^ Teaspoon Salt. 

Omit milk if you like a di'ier dressing. 

Stuffing.— II. (Chestnut.) 

2 Cups French Chestnuts. ^4 Teaspoon Salt. 

Vz ^'i^iP Butter. Few Grains Pepper. 

1 Cup Cracker Crumbs. % Cup Cream. 

Shell and blanch chestnuts. Cook in boiling, salted water until soft. 
Drain and mash. Add 1/2 the butter, salt, pepper and cream. Melt remaining 
butter, mix with cracker crumbs, then combine mixtures. 

Stuffing-.— III. 

11/2 Cups Dried Bread Crumbs. % Teaspoon Cinnamon. 

6 Tablespoons Melted Butter. 1 Cup Apple Sauce. 

14 Teaspoon Salt. 
Mix ingredients in order given. 

Stuffing.— IV. 

1/2 Cup Dried Bread Crumbs. 1 Pint Oysters. 

1 Cup Cracker Crumbs. • Salt and Pepper. 
1/2 Cup Butter. 

Mix in order given. 

Stuffing.— V. 

2 Cups Freshly Grated Bread Vs Cup Melted Butter. 

Crumbs. " 1 Well-Beaten Egg. 

1 Teaspoon Salt. 1 Tablespoon Water. 

V4 Teaspoon Pepper. V2, <^^^P Scalded Milk. 

Sage (if liked). . Mix in order given. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 243 



QUESTIONS. 

1. What does our study page contain today? 

2. How would you select poultry 'I 

3. How can you tell when a chicken is young? 

4. How would you dress or clean a chicken? 

5. What is meant by pin feathers? 

6. How can you remove pin feathers? 

7. Name the parts inside of chicken to be removed. 

8. What do giblets include? 

9. How would you clean giblets? 

10. How would you stuff poultr}^? 

11. How would you truss poultry? 

12. Give general rules for roasting. 

13. What effect does a high temperature have on albumen? 

14. What effect does a low temperature have on albumen? 

15. May this be applied to meat --ookery? 



244 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

CARVING. 

UTENSILS FOR CARVING. 

If one can afford to supply the house with several utensils it will be found 
that a breakfast carver, a slicer, a jointer, a game carver and a pair of game 
scissors will be found very convenient. 

If one cannot afford to have the above, a medium sized meat carver will 
answer all purposes very well. One that has a long blade, slightly curved 
and tapering at the end, is to be recommended. The fork should be long, too, 
with the tines curved, and a guard. 

TO CARVE A ROAST CHICKEN. 

Insert the carving fork across the middle of the breast bone, and with a 
carving knife cut through the skin between the breast and the thigh. Bend 
the leg outward and cut it off' close to the body and through the joint. Cut 
through the tip of the shoulder down through the wing joint. Cut the breast 
into thin slices, slanting from the front of the breastbone down toward the 
wing joint. 

FRIED SPRING CHICKEN. 

Dress, clean and cut up a chicken. Plunge in cold water; drain but do 
not wipe. Sprinkle generously with salt and pepper, and coat with flour, 
having as much flour adhere to chicken as possible. Fry out one-half pound 
salt pork ; cut in pieces, and cook chicken slowly in fat until tender and well 
browned. Lard and butter, lard alone or butter alone may be used for frying. 
Serve with white sauce. 

FRICASSEED CHICKEN. 

This method is used in cooking a fowl which needs long cooking to make 
it tender. Dress, clean and cut up in pieces suitable for serving. Cover with 
boiling water and salt to taste. Cook very gently until tender. The length 
of time will depend upon the age of the fowl. Place chicken on a platter and 
keep hot. Make a sauce of the stock, allowing 2 tablespoons of thickening to 
each cup of liquid. A cup of cream added just before serving improves the 
sauce, or half each of stock and milk make a very good tasting sauce. 
Pour the sauce over the chicken. (Be careful that there is no grease floating 
on top of the sauce.) 

If young chicken is used, it may be sauted first, then cooked one-half 
hour to one hour in the sauce, depending on the tenderness. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



245 



LEGUMES— MEAT SUBSTITUTES. 

PREPARATION OF PEA TIMBALES. 

Peas, beans and lentils are sometimes called the "poor man's meat," as 
they have meat value and may be purchased at a small cost. They are slower 
of digestion, however, than meat and fish, but may be eaten freely by those 
who are engaged more or less in muscular labor. 



GREEN PEA TIMBALES. 
School Recipe. 



MATERIALS: 




GREEN PEA TIMBALES. 


WHITE SAUCE. 


2 Tablespoons Green Pea Pulp. 


14 Cup Milk. 


1/2 Teaspoon Melted Butter. 


1/2 Tablespoon Flour. 


Salt and Pepper to Taste. 


1/2 Tablespoon Cold Water. 


1 Tablespoon Stale Bread Crumbs. 


Salt and Pepper. 


1/4 Yolk. 




14 Beaten White. 






In these days of high prices, we must reduce the amount of meat in the 
diet. Dried peas, beans and lentils will take the place of meat because they 
contain vegetable albumen called casein. These may be used in soups, scal- 
loped dishes, croquettes, tim])a]es, etc. Oatmeal liread, whole wheat bread, 
macaroni and cheese dishes also have meat value and may be used as meat 
substitutes. 



246 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

SEEDS. 

Seeds constitute one of the most important food groups. The seeds of 
plants contain the embryo from which the new plant grows. 

The seed usually contains a store of nourishment on which the new plant 
feeds for its growth for a longer or shorter period after it has sprouted. 

The stored material varies in different plants, some containing a large 
proportion of starch, others oil, etc. The seeds are usually protected with an 
outer covering or coverings, ex., pod which covers peas and beans, husk on 
an ear of corn, bran layers and skin of cereals and hard shell of nuts, etc. 
The seeds commonly used for food are these : 

1st: Legumes or pulses — Peas, beans, lentils and peanuts. 

2nd: Nuts — Walnuts, etc. 

3rd: Cereals — Wheat, corn, etc. 

Legumes are among the most important food plants. Next to cereals 
they are the most valuable and most extensively used of all the vegetable 
foods. As a class, even when green, they are richer in protein than any of 
the other vegetable foods. For this reason they can be substituted for meat : 
and have been so widely used for this purpose that they are often spoken of 
as "the poor man's beef." 

The chief protein found in the pulses is legumin, sometimes called "veg- 
etable casein." Legumin unites with the salts of lime and the compound 
resulting is not soluble in water. Therefore, peas and beans do not cook 
readily in hard water which always contains some lime salts. A little soda 
added to the water will soften it and the legumes. 

The legumes contain a rather high per cent of carbohydrates, but are 
poor in fats, and should therefore be eaten with foods rich in fat or fats, 
such as salt pork or butter to make them a perfect food. 

The protein in legumes is not as completely digested as the protein in 
meat, but careful cooking will remedy this greatly. Although, even then, they 
are more suitable for persons engaged in outdoor labor than for those of 
sedentary habits. 

Peas, beans and other legumes should be soaked 8 to 48 hours in cold 
water, preferably soft : ^4 teaspoon soda to 1 cup beans and 4 quarts water 
will aid in softening them. 

To soften every particle, burst and swell the starch grains, to cook the 
protein compounds without too high a temperature, and to develop a good 
flavor, they should be cooked at the simmering point a long time. 

The addition of seasonings, onions or herbs makes the dish palatable. The 
addition of fat provides a food that meets all the requirements of nutrition. 

They are more completely digested when combined with other foods, with 
the skins removed, and when finely divided. Hence, we obtain more nutriment 
from them when they are prepared as soups than in any other way. 



COOK L\G— BOOK T WO 



247 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
ODD NUMBERED GIRLS. 



In toda^^'s lesson you arc to prepare the bread 
crumbs for the lu^a timbales for your partner and 
make the White Sauce. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Prepare the bread crumbs by rubbing- 2 pieces of 
stale bread together (see FIGURE 1). Pass them to 
your partner. 

To make the white sauce first measure and scald 
the milk. 

Measure the tlour into your sauce plate, add an 
equal amount of cold watei". beat until perfectly 
smooth. (See FIGURE 2.) Tliin out with a little 
more cold water. 

Add to scalded milk, stirring all the time, until 
thickened. (See FIGURE 3.) 

Season with salt and pepper. 

Serve the white sauce with the pea timbales. 

You are to WIPE the dishes today according to * 
directions already learned. 




FIGURE 1. 



\ 



W 



FIGURE 2. 




FIGURE 3. 



248 



COOKING— BOOK T^YO 



MATERIALS: 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 
Pea Timbales. 

1 Cup Dried Green Peas. 

2 Tablespoons Butter. 

V2 Cup Stale Bread Crumbs. 
y^ Teaspoon Salt, 
i/g Teaspoon Pepper. 
1 or 2 Beaten Egf-js. 




Working Directions : 

Soak peas in enough cold water to cover. Cook slowly about 3 hours. 
Force peas through a strainer, add butter, salt, pepper, bread crumbs and 
beaten Qg^. 

Butter and crumb a mold. Turn pea mixture into mold, steam 40 minutes 
or bake 25 minutes in a slow oven. Mav be served with boiled Salt Pork. 



Cost of preparing Home Recipe of Pea Timbales: 
Materials : Cost. 

1 Cup Dried Green Peas cts. 

2 Tablespoons Butter or Other Fat cts. 

1 Cup Stale Bread Crumbs cts. 

Seasoning cts. 

1 or 2 Eggs cts. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



249 




-FIGURE 1. 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 
EVEN NUMBERED GIRLS. 



In today's lesson you are to prepare the Pea 
Timbales. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Measure the pea pulp ; force it through strainer 
into your bowl (see FIGURE 1), add the melted 
butter, salt and pepper. 

Measure and add the stale bread crumbs and 
the yolk passed by housekeeper. 

Fold in the stiffly beaten white, (see FIGURE 
2) prepared and passed by housekeeper. 

Butter your steamer mold or custard cup. Put 
a teaspoon of rolled crumbs into your mold, shake 
it until thoroughly crumbed ; pour remaining crumbs 
back into the dish at the supply table. Pour into it 
the pea pulp mixture. 

Put steamer in the ring. (See FIGURE 3.) 



Place steamer and ring in the saucepan filled 
with boiling water to reach half way to top of mold. 
(See FIGURE 4.) FIGURE 3. 



Cover and cook 25 minutes. 

Remove from mold and serve yourself and part- 




FIGURE 2. 




ner. 



You are to WASH the dishes today according 
to directions already learned. 




FIGURE 4. 



250 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

HOME RECIPES. 
SAVORY LIMA BEANS. 



MATERIALS: 






V2 Pound Lima Beans. 




1 Slice Onion. 




1 Clove. 




1 Small Bunch Herbs 




11/2 Cups "White Sauce. 




1 Beaten Egg. 



WORKING DIRECTIONS: 

Soak the beans in cold water to cover, for 3 hours. Put soaked beans 
into a saucepan, cover with milk and water; add onion, clove and herbs. 
Simmer about 4 hours. Remove onion, clove and herbs ; drain off the liquid. 

Pour the white sauce over the beans and reheat. Remove from fire, stir 
in the slightly beaten egg. Serve. 



MATERIALS: 



MACARONI AND CHEESE CROQUETTES. 



2 Cups Cooked Macaroni Cut in Small Rings. 
1/2 Cup Milk. 
21/2 Tablespoons Flour. 

6 Tablespoons Grated Cheese. 
1 Egg Yolk. 
14 Tablespoon Salt. 
Few Grains Pepper. 



WORKING DIRECTIONS: 

Make a sauce by thickening the milk with the flour, mixed with cold 
water. Add the chopped macaroni, cheese, egg yolk and seasonings. Cool-on 
a plate. Shape into croquettes. Dip in crumbs, eg^ and crumbs. Fry in 
deep fat. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 251 



QUESTIONS. 

1. Name 3 vegetables that will take the place of meat in our diet. 

2. What do they contain to give them meat value "^ 

3. Are they easily digested"? 

4. Are they more easily digested alone or in combination with other 
foods? 

5. Name 3 objects in the preparation of dried beans, peas and lentils. 

6. What may be done to attain the above f 

7. What kind of food should be added in the preparation of peas, beans 
and lentils? 

8. Name 3 ways of preparing dried peas. 

9. Name 2 ways of preparing dried beans. 

10. From what part of the plant are peas obtained? 

11. Why are peas a valuable food? 

12. Are peas, when properly cooked, easy of digestion? 

13. How should peas be prepared before cooking? 

14. How should they be cooked? 



252 COOKING—BOOK TWO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

GREEN LIMA BEANS. 

Cover shelled beans with boiling' water, using just enough water to cook 
beans without burning them. Simmer from 1 to IV2 hours, or until tender, 
adding salt the last 1/2 hour of cooking. Season with butter, salt and pepper. 
May be served in a white sauce. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Soak from 12 to 24 hours. Drain and cook in boiling, salted water until 
soft; drain, season with butter, salt and pepper, or serve in white or cream 
sauce. The skins may be removed after the first hour of cooking. The hull 
is indigestible. 

CREAM OF LIMA BEAN SOUP. 

1 Cup Lima Bean Pulp. 2 Slices of Onion. 

4 Cups Milk. V4 Cup Cooked Carrots (Cubed). 

2 Tablespoons Flour. 2 Tablespoons Butter. 

Cook carrots and onion in 1 tablespoon of butter for 5 minutes. Thicken 
the milk with flour diluted with cold Avater. Add the onion and carrot cooked 
in the butter and the bean pulp to the thickened milk. Season with salt and 
pepper and serve. 

LIMA BEAN SOUFFLE. 

l.Cup Lima Bean Pulp. V4 Teaspoon Salt. 

2 Yolks of Eggs. Feiv Grains Pepper. 

2 Beaten Egg Whites. 

Mix the pulp with beaten yolks, salt and pepper. Fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites; turn into a buttered baking pan and bake in a moderately hot 
oven 20 minutes or more. 

LIMA BEAN CUSTARD. 

1 Cup Lima Beans. 3 Beaten Eggs. 

14 Teaspoon Salt. 1 Cup Milk. 

1 Cup Sugar. 1 Teaspoon Vanilla. 

V2 Tablespoon Butter. 
Soak beans in cold water to cover. Drain, cook in' boiling water until 
soft. Force through a sieve, add the other ingredients in order given. Bake 
in well greased custard cups, placed in a pan of hot water. When a clean 
cut can be made Avith a knife, the custard is done. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



253 



INVALID COOKERY. 



PREPARATION OF INVALID DISHES. 



Materials : 

EGG IN NEST. 
y2 Beaten White. 
1 Yolk. 



INVALID COOKERY. 

School Recipe. 

Materials : 

ORANGE ALBUMEN. 
1/2 Egg White. 
Juice 1/2 Orange. 



1 Round Slice of Bread. 

Salt and Pepper. 
V2 Teaspoon Butter. 



1 Teaspoon Lemon Juice. 

1 Tablespoon Sugar. 

3 Tablespoons Cracked Ice. 



•-5^ 




EGG IN NEST 



In preparing food for the 
sick we should select food 
materials that are nutri- 
tious and easily digested. 
They should be carefully 
selected and prepared, as 
the appetite of the sick 
usually needs to be tempt- 
ed to get the patient to 
take sufficient nourish- 
ment. 




EGG NOG. 



254 COOKING— BOOK TWO 



INVALID COOKERY. 



The selection, preparation and serving of food for invalids is of greatest 
importance. 

The food should be suited to the digestive powers of the patient, should 
be perfectly cooked and served attractively in small quantities. In serious 
illness consult the physician in attendance and follow his directions exactly. 
Death may result from giving forl)idden articles of food. 

All food is changed into liquid during the process of digestion before it 
can be absorbed into the blood. Liquid food can therefore be digested with 
the smallest amount of exertion to the body. 

{Liquid. 
Semi-solid or soft diet. 
Solid or full diet. 

Liquids — Stimulants. — Boiled beef tea, broths, coffee and tea, oatmeal 
water, toast w^ater, albumenized milk, albumenized fruit waters, egg-nogs, 
chocolate, cocoa, bottled beef tea, etc. 

Refreshing beverages are lemonade, orangeade, grape juice^ currant 
water, tamarind Avater, apple water, etc. 

The fruit waters are cooling, refreshing, and mildly stimulating, and are 
given to fever patients. 

Fruits are valuable for the salts and acids they contain. 

Semi-Solids. — Gruels : Arrow-root, farina, oatmeal, crackers, Indian meal. 
Mushes : Cooked cereals. Cream soups, oyster stew, cooked eggs, custards, 
soft toast, gelatine desserts, etc. 

Solids. — Raw oysters, chicken, broiled chops, baked potato, hot sand- 
wiches. Foods that are nutritious and easilv digestible are included in the 
full diet. 

Gruels and the various breakfast foods, thoroughly cooked, with or with- 
out fruits, are valuable. 

Corn and oatmeal gruels should not be given in inflammatory cases, as 
they are heat-producing. 

The starch in arrow-root is more easily digested than any other form of 
starch. 

Cooked eggs, dropped eggs on toast, scrambled eggs, omelets, etc., soft 
custards, baked custards, and the fruit whips made with white of egg, and 
sweetened fruit are all nutrients and easily digested. 

Frozen cream and cream whips with gelatine are very valuable dishes 
in the sick room, as they are both highly nutritious and palatable. 

The creamy soups, oyster stew, etc., Avith toast or crackers, make a desir- 
able lunch for a convalescent. 

Set the tray just as daintily as possible. 

Use the best china, etc. ; lay a blossom on the tray, or anything to please 
the eye. 

Serve hot dishes hot ; cold dishes cold. 

Serve one course at a time. Have surprises in store. 

In contagious diseases all dishes, plates, knives, forks, etc., should be 
sterilized (by putting them in cold Avater, bringing to boiling point and boil- 
ing tAvo hours) after each time they have been used. Burn all particles of 
food left over. 



COOKING— BOOK T^VO 



255 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL ODD NUMBERED 

GIRLS. 

In today's Lesson you are to prepare the egg in nest. 



See Recipe on Front Page. 

Cut slice of bread into circular piece by placing 
tumbler over slice and cutting around edge of glass. 
(FIGURE 1.) 

Toast bread on one side. 

Break egg (see FIGURE 2). Divide the white 
in halves: beat 1/2 of the white of egg, giving un- 
beaten half to the even number. 

Add a few grains of salt and pepper to white. 

Pile beaten white on toasted side of bread. 

Drop yolk in the center. Sprinkle with a litth' 
salt and pepper. Put butter on top of yolk. 

Place bread on a tin. 

Bake in a moderate oven until a light brown. 
(See P^rontispiece.) 

Serve your partner and self. 

You are to WIPE the dishes today, according 
to directions already learned. 




FIGURE 1. 



b y 1 


%^ ■ 


f- 


K. - 


^ 



FIGURE 2. 




FIGURE 3. 



256 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



NOTE BOOK WORK. 



EGG IN NEST. 
MATERIALS: 

1 lieateu White of Egg. 

1 Yolk of Egg. 

1 Round Slice of Bread. 

Few Grains of Salt and Pepper. 




WORKING DIRECTIONS: 

Toast bread on one side. Beat white of egg ; add a few grains of salt and 
pepper — pile on toasted side of bread. Drop unbeaten yolk in center — 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place on a tin — bake in a slow oven until 
a golden brown. 

ORANGE ALBUMEN. 

White 1 egg. 3 Tablespoons crushed ice. 

Juice 1 sour orange. Sugar to taste. 

Beat white of egg slightly, add orange juice and crushed ice. Mix in a 
glass and sweeten to taste. Lemon may be used in the place of the orange. 

Cost of Preparing- Orange Albumen. 

Materials Cost 

1 Orange cts. 

1 Egg White cts. 

Ice cts. 

Sugar cts. 

EGG IN NEST. 

Materials : 

1 Egg cts. 

1 Slice bread . cts. 

Salt and pepper cts. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



257 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL EVEN NUMBERED 

GIRLS. 

In today's lesson you are to prepare the orange albumen. 

Extract the orange juice. Pour it into a glass. Measure aiid add the 
lemon juice and sugar. Add the crushed ice. With a folk slightly beat the 
one-half egg white passed to j'ou by your partner. 

Add the slightly beaten egg white to the orange and ice mixture. Stir 
with a plated spoon until thoroughly mixed. 

Divide into two glasses. Serve your partner and self. 




You are to WASH the dishes today according^ to directions already learned. 



258 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

HOME RECIPES. 
INVALID COOKERY. 

Liquids — Barley Water. 

11/2 Tablespoons pearl barley. Sugar to taste. 

1 Quart cold water. 2 Tablespoons lemon juice or more. 

Soak barley in cold water over night; boil in the same water several 
hours. Strain, add lemon and sugar. Strawberry, raspberry or grape juice 
may be added. Soothing and refreshing. Valuable in bronchial or pulmonary 
trouble. 

Rice Water. 

1 Tablespoon rice. Salt. 

2 Cups Avater. Milk, cream, or fruit juice. 

Barley and rice waters are known as astringents. If stick cinnamon be 
cooked with the rice or barley it will help produce a laxative condition. 

Toast Water. 

Equal measures of stale bread, toasted, and boiling water. Let stand 
one hour. Season, strain, serve hot or cold. Given in extreme cases of nausea. 




Milk Albumen. 
AVhite 1 Q^g, y<i cup milk, fcAv grains salt. 

Eggr Nog. 

1 egg, % tablespoon sugar, % cup milk, 1 teaspoon vanilla or other flavor- 
ing. Beat egg slightly, add sugar, salt and flavoring, and then add the milk 
gradually. Strain and serve. 

Soft Diet — Oatmeal Gruel. 

1/2 cup oatmeal (rolled oats), IV2 quarts water, 14 cup cream, 1 teaspoon 
•salt. 

Cook oatmeal in the Avater and salt for three hours or more. Strain. 
Add cream. Nourishing and fattening. Valuable in anaemic and tubercular 
cases. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 259 



QUESTIONS. 

1. Why is the selection of food for invalids important? 

2. What should be considered in this selection? 

3. Into what is food changed during the process of digestion? 

4. How are sick room diets classified? 

5. Classify liquids. 

6. Name two nutrient liquids. 

7. Name two stimulating liquids. 

8. Name two semi-solid foods. 

9. Name two solid foods. 

10. What should be done with dishes used in contagious diseases? 

11. Name two foods which contain all the food elements in an easily 

digested form. 

12. Why is the white of eg^ so valuable in sick room cooking? 

13. Name three ways of preparing egg dishes. 

14. Name three ways of prc^paring egg and milk dishes. 

15. How is oatmeal gruel prepared? 



260 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOME APPLICATION. 

SPECIAL DIETS FOR THE SICK— CONSTIPATION. 

A surprisingly large number of persons are afflicted with this trouble, 
which usually has a train of other ailments following in its trend. 

Some of the causes of, constipation are lack of exercise, lack of water, 
too much concentrated food, too few vegetables, or too little fruit in the 
diet, careless habits of eating, too many sour or spicy foods and eating in- 
digestible foods. 

A fcAv of the best laxative fruits are apples, grape fruit, figs, dates and 
prunes. Fruits are more laxitive if eaten between meals, or one half hour 
before breakfast. 

Coarse breads, oatmeal, Pettyjohn's breakfast food and vegetables are 
some foods which furnish bulk to the diet. This aids in the peristallic I 
movements of the digestive organs, and, hence, aids the bowels. 

Foods like cheese, candy, eggs, boiled milk, pickles and spices should 
be avoided. 

TUBERCULOSIS. 

The recovery of a patient suffering from tuberculosis depends almost 
entirely upon his diet and the abundance of fresh air with which he is 
surrounded. 

The appetite should be carefully watched and every effort made to sup- 
ply food to gratify it, as the patient should be kept well nourished, but 
wholesome, easily digested foods should be provided. 

Fried foods, because of the difficulty with which they are digested, are 
undesirable, but a plentiful supply of fat in an easily assimilated form should 
be used. Olive oil, bacon, butter and cream should be used freely in the diet. 

Any of the following foods may be given unless the patient's individual 
taste, or some special weakness prevents his taking some of them. 

Cream soups and broths ; fish, boiled or broiled ; tender meats that can 
be roasted or broiled, like chicken, steaks and roasts ; cereals ; vegetables 
rich in minerals, such as spinach, lettuce, string beans, tomatoes; (asparagus 
and potatoes are also allowed). Simple desserts, and beverages that are not 
stimulating like water, cocoa, milk. 

References: Hutchison "Food and Dietetics." 

Bulletin: Practical Dietetics, Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa. 



COOKING— BOOK T\yO 



261 



ACID AND SALT SUPPLYING FOODS. 

PREPARATION OF SALADS. 

Salads offer a splendid opportunity to display artistic taste in devising 
attractive Avays of garnish ing. The fruits and vegetables in their natural 
colorings may be arranged most delightfully. 



FRUIT SALAD MIXTURE: 
SALAD DRESSING: 

1/2 Orange. 
1/2 Banana. 
2 Walnuts. 

Salad dressing to moisten. 



FRUIT SALAD. 

1 Yolk. 

11/2 Tablespoon sugar. 

11/^ Tablespoon vinegar. 

Vs Teaspoon salt. 

1 Beaten white. 

2 Tablespoons whipped cream. 



y^i^' 




FRUIT SALAD SERVED IN ORANGE CUP. 

As we learned in Book One — fruits and vegetables are valuable for their 
acids and salts in addition to the pure water, starch, cellulose, sugar and other 
substances which they contain. Almost any fruit or vegetable may be 
served as a salad alone or in combination with salad dressing. Salad dressings 
containing oil are the most nutritious — they supply the fat lacking in veg- 
etables and fruits. 



262 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

ACID AND SALT SUPPLYING FOODS. 

Fruit and Vegetables are the principal sources of acid and salt supplying 
foods. The minerals are also found in fish, meat and cereals. 

The human body includes compounds of lime, potassium, sodium, iron 
and common salt, the latter of which is found in every part of the body except 
the enamel of the teeth. 

Foods containing mineral matter are necessary for the formation of the 
bones, teeth, nails, and hair, and also to aid digestion, circulation, etc. 

Phosphorus and lime which are so necessary in the formation of bones 
and teeth are found abundantly in the cereals. 

The cereals should, therefore, form an important food in the diet of 
growing children. 

FRUITS. 

Fruits are seed vessels of plants. They contain a large amount of water, 
cellulose, sugar, acids and salts. They not only refresh and cool the system, 
I)ut stimulate the appetite and act as blood purifiers. 

The cellulose helps to carry off waste matter. The acids destroy germs 
in the body. People who eat a large amount of fruit are seldom ill. 

Bananas, dates and figs are rich in sugar and starchy substances and 
form the staple food in the countries w^here they grow. 

Prunes are dried plums. Raisins are dried grapes. 

Eat only sound, ripe fruit. Unripe fruit, or fruit that has been kept a 
little too long, may be cooked to make it safe for eating. 

Do not eat acid fruits with milk or cream. 

Wash fruit before serving it. 

SALADS. 

Simple salads consist of fresh vegetables or fruits which require no cook- 
ing, as lettuce, endive, cress, etc., served with a dressing. Cooked vegetables, 
meat, fish, eggs, cheese or fruits are also used for salads. 

A salad must be served cold. 

The salad should be prepared daintily, and arranged attractively. 

Lettuce and other salad plants should be fresh, crisp and clean. 

Wash thoroughly leaf by leaf, chill in very cold water, and dry by press- 
ing between clean dry towels. 

Do not add the salad dressing to greens until just before serving. 

Use a fork in mixing salad ingredients. 

Do not leave a metal spoon or fork in the salad ingredients any length 
of time, a poisonous compound may be formed. 

Salad greens are valuable for the water and potash salts they contain. 

Meat, fish or egg salad served with a cooked or mayonnaise dressing, 
contains a great deal of nourishment, and when served should be one of the 
chief foods of the meal. 

Serve a vegetable or a fruit salad wnth a hearty meal. 



COOKING—BOOK TWO 



263 



ODD NUMBERED 




FIGURE 1. 




FIGURE 2. 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL 

GIRLS. 

In today's lesson you are to prepare the salad 
dressing and your partner the fruit mixture. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Separate the egg (see FIGURE 1). Drop the 
yolk into the top part of double boiler and the 
white on a plate (see FIGURE 2). 

Measure the sugar, salt and vinegar, add to the 
yolk in the top part of the double boiler (see 
FIGURE 3). 



Mix thoroughly. 

Place upper part of boiler over lower part con- 
taining boiling water. Cook slowly and stir until 
thickened. Lift upper part out of lower part of 
double boiler. Cool. 

Beat the white of egg until stiff. Fold into 
yolk mixture (see FIGURE 4). 



Fold in the beaten cream. 

Moisten fruit, prepared by your partner, with xitpttpf A 

the salad dressing. Pass it to your partner. FIGUKii. 4. 

You are to wash the dishes today, according to directions already learned. 




FIGURE 3. 




264 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



NOTE BOOK WORK 
MATERIALS: 

3 Oranges. 
3 Bananas. 
14 Pound Malaga Grapes. 



4 Slices pineapple (cubed). 
12 Walnuts. 

Salad dressing to moisten. 




Fruit Salad Served in Orange Cup. 

Mix fruit with whipped cream or fruit salad dressing. May be served in 
orange cups. 

FRUIT SALAD DRESSING. 

MATERIALS: 

3 Yolks. 1/3 Cup vinegar. 

Vz Cup sugar. V4 Teaspoon salt. 

Whipped Cream. 

Mix the yolks, sugar, salt and vinegar. Cook in a double boiler until 
thickened, stirring all the time. Remove from fire ; when cool, add the desired 
quantity of whipped cream. 

Prepared mustard may be added to this dressing, using less sugar; it is 
then suitable for meat or vegetable combination. The stiffly beaten white may 
be folded into the salad dressing and less cream used. 

Cost of Preparing Fruit Salad and Dressing: 

Materials Cost 

3 Oranges ' cts. 

3 Bananas cts. 

V2 pound Malaga Grapes cts. 

4 Slices Pineapple cts. 

12 Walnuts cts. 

3 Yokes cts. 

Vs Cup Sugar cts. 

Vs Cup Vinegar cts. 

14 Pint Whipped Cream cts. 



COOKISG—BOOK TWO 



265 



WORKING DIRECTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL EVEN NUMBERED 

GIRLS. 

In today's lesson you are to prepare the orange cup and fruit mixture. 

See Recipe on Front Page. 

Every other even number cuts an orange in 
halves — cutting through the skin zig-zag, making 
six deep points. If the knife is inserted deep into 
the flesh of the fruit with each cut, the orange will 
separate in halves easily. 



Keep one half, pass second half to second even 
number. Scoop out the pulp. Cut pulp into small 
pieces. (See FIGURE 1.) 

Remove skin from banana hfllf — cut banana into 
thick slices. (See FIGURE 2.) 

Put banana slices in a bowl. 

Put orange pieces on top. 

Break walnuts into pieces. 

Pass mixtare to your partner, who will mix it 
with salad dressing. 

Put lettuce leaf inside of orange cup. Fill with 
salad mixture. 

Serve on a lettuce leaf. (Sec frontispiece.) 




FIGURE 1. 




FIGURE 2. 



You are to wipe the dishes today, according to directions already learned. 



266 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



SALADS.— Water Lily Salad. 

Remove shells from hard-cooked eggs. Cut eggs in halves crosswise or 
lengthwise, cutting in such a w^ay that the edges will be cut into sharp points. 
Remove yolk, mash and season with salt, pepper and melted butter, or moisten 
with salad dressing. Refill whites with yolk mixture and arrange halves on 
lettuce leaves. Serve" with cooked salad dressing. 
MEAT SALAD.— ^ 

Meat Salad 
(Chicken or Veal) 
Remove bones 
and gristle, fat 
and skin, from 
cold, cooked meat. 
Cut meat into Vo 
inch cubes and 
mix it with an 
equal amount of 
celery which has 
been scraped, 
chilled and cut in 
in small pieces. 

*Marinate with French dressing. Add mayonnaise dressing to moisten, 
range on lecture leaves; garnish with curled celery. 

1 Cup celery 

WALDORF SALAD. \ 1 Cup nut meats 




Ar- 



( Enough salad dressing to 



1 Cup cubed apple j ^i^isten. 
Cut slice from tops of green or red apples; scoop out the inside pulp, 
leaving just enough to hold the skin in place. Fill the shells with the salad 
mixture and serve on lettuce leaves. 

TOMATO SALAD. 
8 medium sized tomatoes, 2 cups celery or cucumber cut in cubes, 1 cup 
mayonnaise dressing. 

Scald and peel tomatoes ; slice off their tops. Scrape out the seeds and a 
little of the pulp, and fill cavities Avith the celery or cucumber, mixed with 
mayonnaise dressing, or fill with shredded pineapple and nuts mixed with 
mayonnaise dressing. Tomato may be cut to imitate a tiger lily by cutting 
into sixths almost to the stem end. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING. 
^ Teaspoon salt. Vs Teaspoon paj^rika. 4 Tablespoons oil. 

V4 Teaspoon pepper. 2 Tablespoons vinegar. 

Mix ingredients in order -given, stirring vigorously. 

*To MARINATE means to moisten a salad mixture with French dressing 
and then allow it to stand until well seasoned. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 
Yolk 1 egg. 

1 Tablespoon lemon juice. 
1 Tablespoon vinegar. 

Mix dry ingredients; add yolk. AViien weH mixed, add V2 teaspoon vineg-ar. Add oil 
gradually, at first drop by drop, stirring constantly. AVhen very thick, add a few drops of 
vinegar or lemon .luice. and continue to beat, adding oil and vinegar alternately, until h 
the mixture is smoothly blended. The dressing sliould be thick enough to hold its shape, 



1/2 Teaspoon salt. 
V2 Teaspoon sugar. 
Vs Teaspoon paprika 



34 to 1 cup olive oil. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 267 



QUESTIONS. 

1. For what are fruits and vegetables valuable? 

2. What kinds of mineral matter does the human body contain? 

3. What do they help form in the body? 

4. Name a food fi-equently used containing a large percentage of mineral 
matter. 

5. What are fruits? 

6. What do fruits contain? 

7. What kind of fruit should we select for eating? 

8. What should be done to fresh fruit before serving it? 

9. Why ? 

10. How did .you prepare the fruit salad today? 

11. Name another combination for fruit salad that will be just as good. 

12. Does garnishing have any bearing on digestion of food? 

13. Name the digestive fluids in the mouth. 

14. Name the digestive fluids in the stomach. 

15. Discuss the importance of the appearance of a dish when it is ready 

to serve. 



268 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

THE HOUSEHOLD BUDGET PROBLEM. 

We hear much about the busmess of housekeeping these days, and it 
is interesting to note the rapid changes that are taking place in the manage- 
ment of the home. With the changing of the home from an industrial center 
and a place of production, to one of consumption only, the manager of it 
has become the chief spender of the family income. With this responsibility 
on her shoulders, the housewife is coming to realize the necessity of applying 
the same business methods in the management of the home as the manager 
of a business house does in his establishment that the money may be wisely 
spent. 

Efficiency principlej? are advantageously applied in the world of business 
and these same principles may be applied as sviccessfuUy in the business 
of housekeeping. 

Running the household on business principles calls for a household 
budget. In order to make this out intelligently there must be a full appre- 
ciation of the family income and its limitations that proper divisions may 
be made. A living standard must be established, one that is well within 
one 's income, if peace, harmony and comfort shall prevail in the household. 

The natural divisions' are : 

First — Shelter — which may be rent or taxes and repairs on a house and 
carfare for the provider to and from the place of business. In selecting 
the house, sanitary conditions should be the first consideration — social re- 
quirements second. 

Second — Operating expenses — including cost of heating, lighting, ice and 
service. A minimum income naturally requires that the work in the house- 
hold be accomplished by the members of the family. 

Third — Food — including groceries, meat, dairy products, classified under 
necessities and luxuries. 

Fourth — Clothing. 

Fifth — Higher Life — including church and charity, education, periodi- 
cals and books. 

After establishing the standard of living from necessity or choice, a 
percentage for each department should be allowed. 



COOKING—BOOK TWO 269 

Mrs. Ellen Richards and others, after careful study of living conditions 
and tabulations of expenses recorded by a number of housewives, found the 
average percentages on a $1,000 income are : Rent, etc., 20 per cent ; operat- 
ing expenses, 10 per cent; food, 30 per cent; clothing, 15 per cent; higher 
life, 20 per cent. 

A minimum income must provide the necessities of life — shelter, food 
and clothing. Health is the working man's capital, and his physical wel- 
fare depends largely on the way these requirements are met. All the ele- 
ments needed for nutrition must be provided, but the choice must be limited 
to the foods that will give the maximum amount of nourishment at a mini- 
mum cost. This necessitates the purchasing of foodstuffs only when in 
season, substituting peas, beans, lentils and fish for meat frequently ; buying 
of the cheaper cuts of meat and combining them with vegetables — using 
liberally of the cereal foods and wasting nothing of the purchased material. 
The choice of clothing is one that requires good judgment, as well as com- 
mon sense. We are constantly tempted by fashions rather than by quality 
and durability. 

HOUSEHOLD ACCOUNTS. 

After a household budget has been made out, a household account system 
is necessary. 

Almost every purchase nowadays is accompanied bj' an itemized slip. 
These may be kept in envelopes, separating groceries, meat and dry goods 
and other purchases, filed alphabetically in a box of suitable size to hold 
them in place, as in a filing case. Then if any account is overdraAvn, or less 
expenditure in a department is desirable, one can easily find whether too 
much has been spent for luxuries, and just where further economies may 
be made. To draw the line between luxuric^s and necessaries is a difficult 
task, but is required where strict economy must be exercised. To do this 
intelligently, a general knowledge of the requirements of the human body is 
necessary. 

"Order, contentment, hospitality and godliness are the house blessings." 
The words house and home are often confused. The former expresses 
the place where the home-maker surrounds herself, while the latter expresses 
the family life Avhich is lived within the walls of the house. No matter 
how humble the house may be, if the atmosphere is right there is no phice 
like home. It is the ntmosphere and the associations which give to the 
home its strong hold on its members. 



270 COOKING— BOOK TWO 

Such a home stands for rest, comfort, harmony, health and inspiration 
for the spiritual development of each member of the family. It provides a 
place of refuge where troubles, as well as joys, are shared. Upon the home 
rests the strength of the nation. The welfare of the individual depends on 
the right home training and care, and the welfare of the nation depends 
on the kind of citizens the home produces. The home atmosphere is created 
by the ideals of the family or the home-makers who reign in their little 
kingdoms. It is the place for character building of the individual members. 
The physical welfare depends on the way the requirements of the body 
machinery are met. Air, water, food, clothing and shelter to protect it from 
the elements are the essentials to life. As the mental and moral depend 
upon the physical, its Avelfare is of great importance. 

he physical requirements have been dealt with in the lessons included 
in this course. The right selection and jDreparation of food has been empha- 
sized as of prime importance to produce the necessary force to run the human 
machine. Cleanliness of person and surroundings are essential to health. 
Selection of clothing is of vital importance as the body must be properly 
protected. 

The home is the place for fostering religious ideals — which is the founda- 
tion of character building. There is a tendency to leave most of the training 
of growing children to the school and church — but we cannot deny that 
the home training leaves the deepest impression on the child mind. 

"Man does not live unto himself alone" and an early start in life in 
feeling one's responsibility and duty to others is essential. 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



271 



INDEX 



Page 

Accounts, Household 269 

Air, in its Relation to Cookery 52 

Albumen 94 

Milk 258 

Orange 253, 256 

Almond Cookies 218 

Apple : 

Fritters 178 

Pie 229, 232 

Snow 48 

Aspic Jelly 140 

Bacon 149, 154 

Bacon and Eggs 27, 30 

Omelet 154 

Baked Calf's Heakt 116 

Baked Caramel Custard 35, 38 

Baked Liver and Bacon 152 

Barley Water 258 

Beans : 

Lima 250, 252 

Baked 154 

Bechamel Sauce 162 

a la Mode 101, 104 

Cuts of 102, 110 

Tea 98 

Beets, Canned 18 

Beverages 222 

Boiled Fish 120 

Boiled La m b 106 

Boiled Tongue 116 

Boston Cookies 218 

Braising 101, 114 

Bread: 

White 189, 194 

Entire Wheat 192 

Rye 192 

Walnut 220 

Broiled Steak 85, 88 

Brown Bread 154 

Brown Bread, Steamed 181, 184 

F)R0WN Sauce, Oysters in 132 

Budget, Household 268 



Page 
Cake: 

Chocolate 200 

cocoanut 208 

General Directions for 198, 206 

German Coffee 204 

Layer 197 

Making 197 

Orange 197^ 202 

Plain ' 2IO 

Small 205 

Sponge 51. 54, 56, 58 

Sunshine 56 

Temperature of Oven for 198 

White 205, 208 

Calf's Heart, Baked H6 

Canning : 

Beets 18 

Corn ig 

Fruits i6, 'l9, 24 

Selection of Jars for 16 

Sweet Potatoes 18 

Tomatoes 9 

Cantaloupe 77 

Caramel Custard, Baked 35, 38 

Charlotte, Orange 146 

Cheese: 

and Macaroni 250 

Cottage 59, 62 

Nut 220 

Recipes 74 

Sour Milk 64 

Straws 69, 72 

Chicken : 

Fricasseed 244 

How to Carve 244 

Jellied 140 

Plain 106 

Roasted 237, 242 

Spring, Fried 244 

Stewed 106 

Chocolate Frosting 210 

Chocolate 222, 226 

Cinnamon Rolls 204 

Cocktail, Oysters 132 

Cocoa 222, 226 

Cocoanut Pie 236 

Coffee 221, 222, 226 

Constipation 264 

Cookery, Invalid 42, 253, 254 



272 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



INDEX— Continued 



Page 

Cookies 213, 216, 218, 221, 224, 226 

Almond 218 

Boston 218 

Drop Nut 213 

Peanut 216 

Rolled 221 

Sugar 221, 224, 226 

Cooking, Methods of : 

Meat 108, 114 

Fish 118 

Cream : 

Ice 77, 78, 80 

Desserts 77 

Whipped 64, 264 

Spanish 146 

Creamed Oysters 130 

Croquettes : 

Potato 165, 168 

Veal 165, 168 

Custards 40, 48 

Custard Sauce 138 

Cutlets, Veal 160, 162 

Cuts of Beef 102, 110 

Dairy Rules j 66 

Date Pudding 188 

Desserts : 

Cream 77 

Gelatine 133, 134 

Diet for Tuberculosis 260 

Digestion 174, 180, 230 

Digestion of Fats 166 

Dinners Serving, ]\Ienus 142, 148 

Doughnuts : 

Raised 204 

Sour Milk 178 

Dressing, Salad : 

French 266 

Mayonnaise 266 

Drop Nut Cookies 213 



Eggs 27, 28, 32, 35, 36, 43, 44, 50 

and Bacon 27, 30 

IN Nest 253, 256 

Egg Nog 258 

Entire Wheat Bread 192 



Page 

Fats : 

and Oils 150, 156 

Digestion of 166 

Use of in Frying 157, 158, 165 

Fish : 

Baked 118 

Boiled 120 

Broiled 122 

Fried 120 

Methods of Cooking 118 

Preparation of 117, 118 

Shell 125 

Filling, Orange 202 

Floating Island 48 

Food, Preservation of 9, 10 

Food Value of Nuts 214 

Freezing 78 

French Fried Potatoes 157, 160 

French Salad Dressing 266 

Fricasseed Chicken 244 

Fried Chicken 244 

Fried Oysters 130 

Fried Potatoes, French 157, 160 

Fritters, Apple 178 

Frosting : 

Plain 210 

Chocolate 210 

Fruits 20, 262 

Canning 16, 19, 24 

Lemon Jelly with 133, 136 

Punch 228 

Gelatine Desserts 133, 134 

General Directions for Cake- 
Making 198, 206 

German Coffee Cake 204 

Grape Juice 228 

Gravy 108 

Green Peas 170, 245, 248 

Gruel, Oatmeal 258 

Hamburg Steak 90 

Hard Sauce 186 

Heart, Calf's ; Baked 116 

Home-made Yeast 190 



COOKING—BOOK TWO 



273 



INDEX— Continued 



Page 

Household Accounts 269 

Household Budget 268 

Hunter's Pudding 186 

Ices 84 

Ice Cream : 

Recipes for 82 

Peaches with 77, 7^, 80 

Invalid Cookery 42 

Jars for Canning 16 

Jelly : 

Lemon 133, 136 

Lemon, with Fruit 133, 136 

Aspic 140 

Meat 134, 140 

Mint 22>7, 240 

Roll 58 

Jellied Chicken 140 

Juice, Grape 228 

Junket 59, 62 

Kisses, or Meringues 58 

Lamb, Boiled 106 

Layer Cake 197 

Legumes 246 

Lemons : 

Lemonade 228 

Jelly 136 

Jelly with Fruit 136 

Pie 234 

Sponge 141, 144 

Lima Beans 250, 252 

Liver: 

Preparation of 149 

and Bacon, Baked 152 

LuNN, Sally 204 

Macaroni and Cheese 250 

Marshmallow Pudding 138 

Mayonnaise Dressing 266 



Page 
M eat : 

Jellies 134^ 140 

Tough Cuts ok 93 

Salad 266 

Menus for Dinners 148 

Meringues or Kisses 58 

Meringue for Pie 234 

Methods of Cooking 86, 90, 94 

Meat '.108,' 114 

Fish us 

Milk, Albumen 258 

IMiLK 50, 59, 60, 67, 69 

Milk, Pasteurized 64 

Mincemeat 236 

Mince Pie 236 

Mint Jelly 2Z7 

Mixtures, Steamed 181 

Nuts : 

Cheese 220 

Food Value of 214 

Nut Souffle 220 

Oatmeal Gruel 258 

Oils and Fats LSO, 156 

Omelet, Bacon 154 

Orange : 

Albumen 253, 256 

Cake 197, 202 

Charlotte 146 

Filling 202 

Frosting 202 

Orangeade 228 

Oysters 125 

Cocktail 132 

Creamed 130 

Fried \ 130 

IN Brown Sauce 132 

ON Half Sheli 139 

Preparation of 126 

Scalloped 125, 128 

Stew V. " .' 130 

Pasteurized ^Iilk 64 

Pastry 230 



274 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



INDEX— Continued 



Page 

Peaches : 

Canning 19, 22 

Pickled 24 

WITH Ice Cream 80 

Peanut Cookies 216 

Peas, Green 170, 245, 248 

Pickles, Watermelon 24 

Pie: 

Apple 229, 232 

Cocoanut 236 

Lemon 234 

Mince 236 

Raisin 236 

Rhubarb 234 

Veal 106 

Plain Cake 210 

Plain Frosting 210 



Potatoes : 

AND Veal Croquettes 

French Fried 157, 

Sweet Glazed 237, 

Sweet Canned 

Potato Balls 

Potato Croquettes 

Pot Roast 

Poultry 237, 

To Dress 

To Stuff 

Preserves, Strawberry 

Preservation of Foods 9, 

Proteins 

Prune Whip 43, 

Pudding : 

Hunter's 

Marshmallow 

Plum, without Eggs 

Plum 

Snow 

Spanish Cream 

Steamed Whole Wheat 181, 

Pudding Sauces 

Date 

Plum 

A la Macedoine 



165 
160 
240 
18 
117 
168 

104 

238 
238 
237 

24 

10 

86 

46 



38 



36 



Page 

Review Questions 15-25-33-41-49 

57-65-75-83-91 

99-107-115-123-131 

139-147-155-163 

171-179-187-195 

203-211-219-227 

235-243-251 

259-267 

Rhubarb Pie 234 

Rice Croquettes 168 

Rice Water 258 

Roast Chicken 237, 242 

Roasting 108 

Roll, Jelly 58 

Rolls, Cinnamon 204 

Rolled Cookies 221 

Rules, Diary 66 

Rye Bread 192 



Salad Dressing 264 

French 266 

Mayonnaise 266 

Salads 261, 262 

Meat 266 

Waldorf 266 

Waterlily 266 



Sally Lunn 



204 



Raised Doughnuts 204 

Raisin Pie 236 

Relation of Air to Cookery 52 



Sauce : 

Bechamel 162 

Fish 122 

Hard 186 

Lemon 186 

Pudding 186 

Tomato 160 

White 114 

Yellow 186 

Seeds 246 

Selection of Jars for Canning 16 

Serving Dinner 142 

Shell Fish 125 

Sherbet 82 

Snow, Apple 48 

Snow Pudding 138 

Souffle, Nut 220 

Soups 93, 96, 100 



COOKING— BOOK TWO 



275 



INDEX— Concluded 



Page 

Souk Milk Cheese 64 

Sour Milk Doughnuts 178 

Spanish Cream 146 

Sponge Cake, 51, 54, 56, 58 

Sponge Cake, Lemon 141, 144 

Steak, Broiled 85, 88 

Steam Mixtures : 

Brown Bread 181, 184 

Whole Wheat Pudding 181, 186 

Steak, Hamburg 90 

Sterilization 17 



Stew : 
Chicken 

OSYTER 

Veal . . . 



106 
130 
106 



Strawberry Preserves 24 

Straws, Cheese 69, 72 

Sugar Cookies 221 

Suggestions for Home Application : 

16-17-18-26-34-42-50-58-66- 

67-68-76-84-92-100-108-116- 

124-132-140-148-156-164-172- 

180-188-196-204-212-220-228- 

236-244-252-260-268-269-270 

Sunshine Cake 56 

Sweet Potatoes, canned 18 



Tea 

Temperature of Oven . 

Tender Cuts of Meat, 
Preparation of 



.222, 226 
.... 198 



85 

Toast, Water 258 

Tomato Canning 9 



Page 

Tomato Sauce lt)0 

Tongue, Boiled 116 

Tough Cuts of Meat, Preparation of. 93 
Tuberculosis, Diet for 260 

Uses of Fat in Frying 157, 158, 165 

Veal: 
Stew and Potato Croquette. .. .106, 165 

Bird on Toast 109-112 

Croquettes 168 

Cutlets loO, 162 

Pie 106 

Preparation of 109 

Vegetable Meat Loaf 220 

Vegetables, Canning of.. 9, 12, 14, 16, 18 

Waldorf Salad 266 

Walnut Bread 220 

Water : 

Barley 258 

Toast 258 

Rice 258 

W'aterlily Salad 266 

Watermelon Pickles 24 

Whipped Cream 144, 264 

Whip, Prune 43, 46 

White Bread 189, 194 

White Cake 205. 208 

White Mountain Cream 210 

White Sauce 114 

Whole Wheat Pudding 181, 186 

Yeast 190, 196 

Yeast Home-Made 190 



Yellow Sauce 



186 



For All Industrial Subjects 



Text-Books 

.^"^. \ ^/.^ Courses 

We Furnish { 

Equipment 

Supplies 



Catalogs and Other Information Sent Upon Requert 



Industrial Book & Equipment Co. 

Indianapolis, Indiana 



"Everything for Industrial Work' 



