CIHM 
Microfiche 
Series 
(Monographs) 



ICMH 

Collection de 
microfiches 
(monographies) 




Canadian Institute for Historical Microredroductions/lnstitut canadien de microreproductions historiques 





Technical and Bibliographic Notes / Notes techniques et bibliographiques 



The Institute has attempted to obtain the best original 
copy available for filming. Features of this copy which 
may be bibliographically unique, which may alter any of 
the Images in the reproduction, or which may 
significantly change the usual method of filming are 
checked below. 



El 



D 
D 
D 



D 



Coloured covers / 
Couverture de couleur 



I I Covers damaged / 



Couverture endommagee 



□ Covers restored and/or laminated / 
Couverture restauree et/ou pelliculee 

Cover title missing / Le titre de couverture manque 

I I Coloured maps / Cartes geographiques en couleur 

□ Coloured ink (I.e. other than blue or black) / 
Encre de couleur (i.e. autre que bleue ou noire) 

ryi Coloured plates and/or illustrations / 
LvLI Planches et/ou illustrations en couleur 

Bound with other material / 
Relie avec d'autres documents 

Only edition available / 
Seule edition disponible 

Tight binding may cause shadows or distortion along 
interior margin / La reliure serree peut causer de 
I'ombre ou de la distorsion le long de la marge 
interieure. 

Blank leaves added during restorations may appear 
within the text. Whenever possible, these have been 
omitted from filming / Use peut que cerlaines pages 
blanches ajoutees lors d'une restauration 
apparaissent dans le texte, mais, lorsque ceta etait 
possible, ces pages n'ont pas ete filmees. 

Additional comments / 
Commentaires supplementaires: 



L'Instilut a microfilm^ le meilleur exemplaire qu'il lui a 
6te possible de se procurer. Les details de cet exem- 
plaire qui sont peut-etre uniques du point de vue bibli- 
ographique, qui peuvent modifier une image reproduite, 
ou qui peuvent exiger une modification dans la metho- 
de normale de filmage sont indiqu6s ci-dessous. 

I Coloured pages / Pages de couleur 

I I Pages damaged / Pages endommag6es 



D 



Pages restored and/or laminated / 
Pages restaur^es et/ou pelliculees 



Pages discoloured, stained or foxed / 
ZJ Pages d6color6es, tachet6es ou piqu6es 

Pages detached / Pages d6tach6es 

| xy^ Showthrough / Transparence 

Quality of print varies / 
Qualit^ inegale de I'impression 



D 



Includes supplementary material / 
Comprend du materiel suppl6mentaire 

Pages wholly or partially obscured by errata slips, 
tissues, etc., have been refilmed to ensure the best 
possible image / Les pages totalement ou 
partiellement obscurcies par un feuillet d'errata, une 
pelure, etc., ont 6te filmees a nouveau de fa?on a 
obtenir la meilleure image possible. 

Opposing pages with varying colouration or 
discolourations are filmed twice to ensure the best 
possible image / Les pages s'opposant ayant des 
colorations variables ou des decolorations sont 
filmees deux fois afin d'obtenir la meilleure image 
possible. 



D 



This item is filmed at the reduction ratio checked below / 

Ce document est filme au taux de reduction indique ci-dessous. 



10x 








14x 








18x 








22x 








26x 








30x 






















































12x 



16x 



20x 



24x 



28x 



32x 



The copy filmed here has been reproduced thanks 
to the generosity of: 

Hamilton Public Library 



L'exemplaire film^ fut reproduit grace & la 
gin^rosit^ de: 

Hamilton Public Library 



The images appearing hare are the best quality 
possible considering the condition and legibility 
of the original copy and in keeping with the 
filming contract specifications. 



Les images suivantes ont 6t6 reproduites avec la 
plus grand soin, compte tenu de la condition et 
de la nenetA de lexempiaire film^, et en 
conformity avec ies conditions du contrat de 
filmage. 



Original copies in printed paper covers are filmed 
beginning with the front cover and ending on 
the last page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, or the back cover when appropriate. Ail 
other original copies are filmed beginning on the 
first page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, and ending on the last page with a printed 
or illustrated impression. 



Les exemplaires originaux dont la couverture en 
papier est imprimAe sont filmds en commencant 
par le premier plat et en terminant soit par la 
derniAre page qui compurte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration, soit pat le second 
plat, selon le cas. Tous les autras exemplaires 
originaux sont film^s en commengant par la 
premiere page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration et en terminant par 
la derncire page qui comporte une telle 
empreinte. 



The last recorded frame on each microfiche 
shall contain the symbol -^^ (meaning "CON- 
TINUED '), or the symbol V (meaning "END"), 
whichever applies. 



Un dea symboles suivants appara?tra sur la 
dernidre image de cheque microfiche, selon le 
cas: le symbole — ^> signifie "A SUIVRE", le 
symbole V signifie "FIN". 



Maps, plates, charts, etc., may be filmed at 
different reduction ratios. Those too large to be 
entirely included in one exposure are filmed 
beginning in the upper left hand corner, left to 
right and top to bottom, as many frames as 
required. The following diagrams illustrate the 
method: 



Les cartes, planches, tableaux, etc., peuvent etre 
film6s A des taux de reduction diffdrents. 
Lorsque le document est trop grand pour etre 
reproduit en un seul cliche, il est filmd d partir 
de Tangle sup<krieur gauche, de gauche A droite, 
et da haut en bas, en prenant le nombre 
d'images n^cessaire. Les diagrammes suivants 
illustrent la m^thode. 



1 


2 


3 




1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 



MICROCOPY RESOLUTION TEST CHART 

ANSI ond ISO TEST CHART No 2 



1.0 



I.I 



m 



|||M 

113.2 

13.6 



I 2.5 

II 2.2 

2.0 
1.8 



1.25 



1.4 



1.6 



_j .^^_PLIEDjrvMGE Inc 

^T". ■ 60.5 fast Main Streel 

"■^ 'lochesler, Ne* York H609 USA 

' ' (■' ! '>S2 - 0300 - Phone 

' .88 - M89 Fo, 



^•. .'. 




Ranges, Furnaces 

AND 

GAS RANGES 

For Sale hy 

^-4'W . i'. Dibblea •& Son ^ 
Woodstock N . E 






.*!» 




/ 



t)<* i 



5 CHO CEbi 



',,:,, i:e cookina recipes 



Special Collections 
Hamilton Public Library 




y 



To the Public 



-I 

4 



THE BURROW. STEWART <El 
MILNE COMPANY, LIMITED. 

HAMILTON, CANADA 

l^'^^ AVE pleasure in handing you through their Agents 
I JP this useful Booklet, containing a large number of 
* •>» Choice Cooking Recipes, which should be a great 

help even to experienced housewives. 

Various items of interest will also be found relative to 
stoves in general, but to " Jewels " in particular. 

In purchasing such an article as a Stove, which, with 
ordinary care, shoitld last many years, CHeapneSS should 
not be the only consideration. The difference in price between a 
poorly constructed, cheap stove, and a reliable one of superior 
construction, when spread over a number of years, amounts to 
such a small sum per year as not to merit consideration when 
compared with the comfort and satisfaction obtained by the use 
of the better stove. 

The question should be, "Which stove will last the 
longest and give best satisfaction ?" — for the Best is always 

Cheapest. 

"JeMrel ** Stoves and Ranges are not 

expensive, and are nearest perfection in construction. 

"Jewel ** iStoves and R -'.nges are made in 
immen.se variety of style and size, and ai^ equirement can be 
supplied. 

Every "Jewel" Stove or Range is 
fully w^arranted by tlie Manufacturers. 

We make many other Stoves besides tho.se shown herein. 
Ask for particulars. 



JKWIvL STOVKS AND RANOKS. 



Our Trade Mark 







AS APrtlED TO STOVKS AND RANGES MADE BY 

THE BURROW, STEWART & MILNE CO., LIMITED, HAMILTON 

IS A SL'HFICIENT GUAKANTKH OF OTIAMTY. 

Nevertheless, we send with every "JEWEL" Stove or Range, a Guarantee Bond 
signed by the Dealer as well as by the OfTicers of the Company. 



WHcre Je<«vels are Made. 




THE BEST.iEqUIPPED FACTORY OF ITS KIND IN CANADA. 
BRANCHES AT - MONTREAL - WINNIPEG - VANCOUVER 



Thb burrow, STt^WART & MII.NR Co. LmiTKu, Hamilton 



i 



"JEWEL" 

Stoves and R.ang'es. 



Next to the ability to create a first-olasss article is the 
capacity to recognize it when created. "JEWEL" Stoves 
and Ranges commend themselves only to people who 
have the capacity of recognizing the highest excellence yet 
attained in stove construction. 



COOKING RECIPES. 



I jfot a piece of real old-fashioned wedding cake the other day, and 
after, of course, dreaming on it, I ale it, crunching the lovely thick almond 
paste that lies under the frosting, and tlien I set to wondering if you knew 
how to make it. This is the way : — Get one pound ground almonds, one 
pound of line sifted lump sugar, the whites of two eggs and a few drops of 
essence of almonds. Mix the sugar and the ground almonds well together ; 
then add, little by little, the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth, until the 
mixture is a thick paste ; add the essence of almonds, mix all thoroughly — 
and there you are. 

BREAD. 

Rye and Corn Meal Bread — Two teacupfuls each of rye flour and 
corn meal, half a teacupful of molasses, one teaspoonful each of salt and 
soda. Pour enough boiling water on the corn meal to just moisten it. 
When cool add sufficient water to make a thin batter. Dissolve half a cake 
of compressed yeast in a little water, and sift the soda and salt with the rye 
meal ; stir the molasses into the corn meal batter, then the rye meal, etc., 
and beat thoroughly. Set to rise in a warm place, and when it cracks open, 
turn it into a greased baking pan, and when light bake in a moderate oven. 
This amount will make two small loaves or one large loaf. The small loaves 
will bake in an hour, but the larger one would require nearly two hours. 

Steamed Corn and Graham Bread— Two cups of corn meal, two 
cups of Graham flour, two cups of .sour milk, two-thirds of a cup of molasses, 
one teaspoonful of soda. Steam two and one-half hours. 

Plain White Family Bread — One pint of flour and half a pint of 
good hop yeast ; stir these together about five o'clock in the afternoon ; at 
nine put one-half gallon of flour in a tray and put the sponge in the middle 
of the flour with a piece of lard as large as a walnut. Knead it all up with 
tepid water, in which salt (two tablespoo7ifuls or more) has been dissolved ; 
work it well, and put it in a jar to rise. Next morning knead it over with a 
little flour ; r -» it in two loaves, and set it in a warm place or oven till 
ready ; and i ' ic . put it to bake, and when it is done wrap it in a coarse 
towel. If 3'ou nave no sugar in the yeast you use, stir a large teaspoonful 
in it before putting in the flour. 

Graham Bread— Take a little over a quart of warm water, one-half 
cupful of brown sugar or molasses, one fourth cupful of hop yeast, aud one 
and one-half teaspoonfuls of salt. Thicken the water with unlxjlted flour to 



JKWHU STOVlvS AND RANC^vS 



\ 



••Jewer* Gas Rang' 

No. 363 




WE MAKE A COMPLETE LINE 

FITTED WITH IMPROVED SLOTTED BURNERS 

WITH REMOVABLE THIMBLE CAPS 

ASBESTOS LINED OVENS. 

JEWEL GAS RANGES WILL NOT PUFF OR LIGHT BACK 

THE PROPER THING FOR SUMMER USE 
GAS WHEN PROPERLY USED IS CHEAPER THAN COAL. 

THE JEWEL IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL RANGE MADE 



Thk nrRROW, STKWART & MII.NE Co. Mmitkh, Hamilton 5 



a thin hatter ; add suKar, salt and ytast ; thin stir in inr>re flonr till quite 

stifF. In the tiiornin^' add a small leaspuonful of so«ia, ar 1 flour enoiijrli to 

nake the hatter stiff as it can he stirred with a stioon ; put it into iians, let 

t ■;...« ;.. <» I... I.. ;. : i 1,1 ' . . ^ . ' . ,- 



I 

it rise 



- - -poon ; jait it into ]ians, let 

,»Kani, tlien hake it in an evenlv heated ovt-iK not too fast at first. 
Keep it warm while it is risinj;, and smooth over the loaves with a spoon or 
knife dipped in water. 

BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 

Buns Diasolve half a cake of eompressed yeast in a lourth of a cup of 
w.irin water, add a teacni)fnl of tepid milk, one tahlespoonfid (,f suj^'ar, one 
teas])oonfnl of sail, and a pint of llonr. Make a hatter of these in>;redients 
and set to rise. When liKht, add a well I.eaten e.ijg three tahle.spoonfuls of 
melted hutter, half a teacnpfnl of currants, half ii teaspoonfnl of cinnamon, 
and tlor.r to make a stiff douj^h. Knead until it is very fine and then set t« 
ri.se a^aiii. When liKht, mould into small round hisciiits, set close toj^ether 
in a .shallow pan, and wiien they are very lijrht brush over the toji with a 
little white of e^g mixed with sngar, or ju t simjily sweetened water. Rake 
evenly in a moderate oven. 

Breakfast Roils— Two cups of dour, one cip of .-weet milk, one 
of water, one-half teaspoonful of salt ; bake twenty-five minutes in ; 
oven. 

Johnny Cake—One eg),', two tabli^spooiifuL^ of brown .sugar, one 
tablespoonful of shorteninj,' (lard or butli 1, one teacu])ful of .sour milk, one 
teacupful of corn meal, one teacupfiil of wheat (lour, one teas])oonful of salt, 
one-half teaspoonful of soda, one teasi)oonful of bakin.t; powder. 

A good stove should be, and every JEWEL" is, 
artistic in design, a perfect operator, and very durable 



cup 
hot 



DE 



Johnny Cake— One (piart of milk, four ejiH'^, one cpiart of Indian 
meal, two tablespoonfuls of butter melted, one tablespoonful of .soda, a 
little salt. 

Johnny Cake Two cups of sour milk, two cups of corn ineal, one 
cup of flour, one egJ,^ two tahle.spoonfuLs of sugar, a pinch of salt, two table- 
spoonfuls of melted lard, two teaspoons of soda. 

Corn Gems— One scant pint of meal, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a 
teaspoonful of .salt, and a generous pint of boiling milk ; stir thoroughly and 
let stand until cool, then stir in three beaten eggs, and bake in buttered pans. 

Toasted Crackers— Butter large scpiare soda crackers, place in a tin 
and brown the upper side in the oven. They should he watched closely, as 
they brown more (piickly than bread. Serve hot. 

Breakfast Toast — Dip each slice of bread— untoasted— in .sweet milk, 
then in a hatter consisting of one beaten egg, one cup of sweet milk, one 
;ablespoonful of flour, and a little ;"pper and salt. Fry to a light brown in 
butter, using a griddle or frying pa:\ ,ind turning as one'would griddle cakes. 

Cream Toast— Bring to the boiling i>oiut a pint of rich .sweet milk. 
Stir into it a teaspoonful of corn starch which has been beaten smooth in a 
little cold milk. Add a .small lump of butter, pepper .ind salt. It is best 
not to add the salt until the milk has boiled, as it is h.dile to curdle other- 
wise. Dip the toasted bread in hot salted water, place in a deep dish, and 
pour the prepared cream over it. 

Tomato Toast — Place a pint of fresh sliced or canned tomatoes in a 
granite kettle over the fire, adding a little vs-ater — less for canned than for 
fresh tomatoes. While they are simmering, the bread should be toasted, 
buttered and placed on a deep platter. Lastly, turn into the tomatoes one 
pint of sweet cream. Let it come to the boiling point, pour over toast, and 
serve. 



• 



JEWEIv STOVKS AND RANGES. 



Peerless "Je^^el" Steel Range 

EIGHT STYLES Jt j* SINGLE, DOUBLE OR TRIPLE 




For Hard Goal, Soft Goal, Goke or Wood 

-WILl^ BURN 2G-INCH -WOOD. 



Duplex Grate, LarReOven, 22 in. x 20 in. x 1 2 in. 



PERFECT BAKERS. 



ECONOMICAL IN FUEL 



4 



Thb burrow, STEWART it MILNE Co. Limited, Hamiwon 



LE 



n. 



Buttered Toast— Dip slices of toast in hot water, a little salted, 
spread with butter, and serve while hot. It is also nice prepared with an 
egj^ on each slice. The eggs should he cooked by breaking in boiling salted 
water, and letting them remain until they are sufficiently hardened to 
remove. 

Dutch Toast — This is an old-fashioned dish — nice for using broken 
bits of stale bread. Crumble the bread fine and place in a frying pan, in 
which a generous slice of butter has been melted. .\dd .salt, pepper and 
sage if liked it needs to be seasoned quite highly — and a small quantity of 
boiling water. Cover closely, so the steam will soften the bread. Stir well 
several times, and it is ready to serve. 

Graham Gems— Two cups of buttermilk, one cup of wheat flour, two 
cui)s of Graham flour, one teaspoon of salleratiis, a pinch of .salt. Bake in 
cup tins. 

Fritters — Three eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately, three 
coffeecupfuls of flour and two of sour milk or buttermilk, one teaspoonful 
each of .soda and salt. Dissolve soda in the milk, stir in the egg yolks, then 
the sifted flour and salt, lastly the egg whites beaten stiff. Have a kettle of 
boiling fat ready, drop the batter in by spoonfuls, and cook the fritters to a 
light brown. 

Rusks Sift thoroughly together a quart of flour, two heaping tea- 
spoonfuls of baking ])owder and one of salt. vStir tea cream half a teacupful 
of butter with one teacupful of sugar, and add the beaten yolks of three 
eggs. Stir the flour well with sufficient water to make it as thick as bread 
dough, then mix well with it the butter, sugar and eggs. I'orm with the 
hands into little balls or cakes, rub the tops with sugar and water and sift a 
little dry sugar over. Hake at once. 



There is only one complete line of Stoves and Ranges 
with Cold Rolled Sheet Steel Ovens, and that is the 
" JEWEL. " 

Breakfast Gem;. .)necup of sweet milk, one and one-half cups of 
flour, one egg, one teaspoonful of .salt, one teaspoonful of baking powder ; 
beat together five minutes ; bake in hot gem pans in a hot oven about fifteen 
minutes. 

Buttermilk Biscuits — To three cupfuls of buttermilk add one of 
butter, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, a 
dessert spoonful salt, and sufficient flour to make the dough just stiff enough 
to admit of being rolled out into biscuits. 

Rolls — Rub one-half teaspoonful of lard into one quart of flour ; make 
a well in the middle, put in one-half cuj) of liaker's yeast — or one cup of 
home-made— two teaspoonfnls of sugar, one-half pint of cold boiled milk. 
Do not stir it, and let it stand over night ; in the morning knead it well ; 
after dinner knead it again, cut it out, and put it in pans, and let it rise 
until tea time. Bake in a quick oven. 

Muffins On e pint of bread sponge, one pint of sweet milk, two eggs, 
one-half cup of butter, a pinch of .salt ; let the mixture rise three hours, and 
bake it in muffin rings. 

Corn Rolls— Eight heaping tablespoonfuls of corn meal, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, one quart of boiling milk ; stir all 
together, and let it stand until it is cool. Add six eggs well beaten, and 
bake in gcni pans, or well buttered rup«;. 

Buckwheat Cakes — Mix thoroughly together one quart of buckwheat 
flour, one teaspoonful of salt, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one gill of 
corn meal, three tablespoonfuls of mola.sses, and sufficient milk or water to 
make a thin batter. If preferred, half a pint of wheat flour and one and one-half 



JKWRL STOVIvS AND RAXCillS 



'Xrown Jcwer' Steel J{ange 

SIX COOKING HOLES 

Twelve Styles Three Sizes of Each 




For Hard or Soft Coal, Coke or Woood 

(WILL BURN 26-INCH WOOD) 

Duplex Crate. Large Oven— No. 8 18 in., No. 8 20 in., No. 9 20 in. 

Most up-to-date Steel Range on the Market. 



The burrow, STEWART & MILNE Co. Limited, Hamiton 



^e 



^ 



in. 



pints of the buckwheat can be used. The cakes will brown better if all milk is 
used. Cook as soon as mixed. Ttiey will be lighter if cooked before the 
j,'as escapes, and it is preferable to mix at a time only so much as will be 
cooked within fifteen minutes. Corn meal makes them less tough, and 
some prefer corn meal both in buckwheat and wheat cakes. 

VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. 

Cor ' Chowder Chop fine a pint of canned corn, .slice one and one- 
half -n . . )f raw potatoes very thin ; fry three or four slices of salt pork in a 
deep ;. .' •;, and in this fat fry one .sliced onion ; over this put in the corn 
and p ;. .loes in layers, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and dredge with a 
little (lour. Pour over a pint of boiling water, cover and cook until the 
potatoes are soft, wliich .should be in fifteen or twenty minutes, then stir in 
at least a pint of milk and a little Hour and water for thickening. vSplit half 
a do/en crackers (Boston crackers are the besti, dip them in cold water a few 
seconds, put them in the chowder, let it boil up once and it is then ready to 
serve. 

Baked Sifted Potato— -\ very nice way to warm over mashed potato is 
to press it through a potato sifter, which can now be obtained very cheaply 
(25 to 35 cents). This leaves it light as a feather. It is well to grease the 
]ian or'baKing dish, then sift the potato directly into it. Lay bits of butter 
on the top and bake to a delicate brown. It makes a pretty dish for lunch or 
breakfast. It can be .set on the table in the dish in wliich it is baked, or be 
carefully removed to adother, so as not to materially break up the golden 
lop crust. 

The ''JEWEL" Stoves and Ranges with Cold Rolled 
Sheet Steel Ovens, require less fuel than Stoves and Ranges 
of all Cast Iron construction. 



Tomato Omelette— Skin half a dozen large r\]w tomatoes, stew and 
strain through a sieve, mix well with them three tablespoonfuls of bread 
crumbs, four well-beaten eggs, four tablcspoonsful of sweet milk. Salt and 
pepi)er to taste. Bake brown in buttered pan. 

Potato Croquettes— Pare six large potatoes, boil and mash fine, and 
mix with them the whites of two well-beaten eggs, one tablespoonful of 
butter, two-thirds of a cup of hot cream or milk, and salt and pepper to 
taste. When cool enough to handle, mould into balls, dip in beaten egg, 
then in cracker crumbs, drop into hot ])an and fry l)rown. 

Scotch Potato Scones— Pare and wash eight good-sized potatoes, boil 
until done. Mash fine and add a pinch of salt, and mix enough fiour to make 
a stiff dough ; roll thin and cut in strips, and bake on a large griddle without 
grease. These are very nice eaten warm. 

Spiced Tomatoes— Select medium or small sized fruit, scald lightly 
and skin, and for each six pounds use four iioundsof .sugar, two tablcspoons- 
ful each of ground cloves and cinnamon and one jiiiitof good cider vinegar. 
Tie the spices in a thin muslin bag and scald them in the vinegar, then add 
sugar, and when the svrup boils again jnit in the tomatoes. When the 
tomatoes are well cooked, take them out into jars or bottles and keep them 
kul. Boil the svrup down until it is rich and thick : then jiour it over the 
tomatoes and seal while hot. This makes a nice relish for fresh meats, or, 
indeed, any kind of meats or fish. 

Candied Sweet Potatoes Wash the jjotatoes, steam until very tender 
and neel them while war'.'.!. Boil together two teacunsful of sugar and one 
an.l one-half teacupsful of water untTl a rich syrup is formed ; 'then_ remove 
from the fire and stir in a large tablespoonful of fre.sh butter. Shce the 
potatoes in a pudding dish, noi (juite filling it, pour over the svrup, sprinkle 
bits of butter on the top, and set it in the oven to bake. "' "-••'' "•- 



Occasional! V tilt the 



ji-:\\"Ki. sT<)\":-;s and r\x{-,i.:s. 



"Gypsy Jewel" Steel Range 



8 STYLES .•* c-t 3 SIZES. 



V 




For Hard or Soft Coal or for Wood 

26 INCHieS IvONG 
DUPLEX GRATE H in., fd in. OR iB in. OVENS 



Modern Medium Sized Steel Range. 



Y 



7^ 



Thk lU'RUOW, STHWART .S: MILM-; Co. Li.mitkd, Hamilton ii 

pail aiul flip some of the syrup o%'er the potatoes. Keep the top from getting 
lirv, ami bake rather slowly one and one-half hours. Semi to the table hot 
in tlie pan they are liakeil in. 

Baked Apples Pare, (piarter and core juicy sour ai)i)les. I'ill a pud- 
ilinf( dish lieapiiij^ full, strew sugar over them as put in, and on the top. 
.\dd a little water, cover and bake par'.'y done ; then remove the cover and 
hake until nice and brown. These are (lelicious cold, with sugar and cream. 

Boiled Apples Leave the skins on, but remove tlie stems and 
blossom ends from as m.iny ap])les as can be placed closely on the bottom of 
a jiorcelaiu kettle, strew sug.ir and gruiiid cinnamon thickly over them and 
add water enough to come nearly to the top of the apples, but not over 
them. Cover closely and set where they will cook slowly. Let them get 
verv tender, but be careful not to break them. When thoroughlv done, 
take out the a])])les and boil the s\rii;) a little longer, or until rich, then 
jiour it over, and they are ready to serve. 

Mashed Potatoes — Pare and boil till done, drain, give the kettle a 
shake, sprinkle with salt ami i)lace on back of the stove, with the lid partly 
off, for about three minutes (to make them mealy), shake again and mash in 
the kettle until perfectlv smooth ; add .salt ,ind cream, or milk and butter 
may take the place of cream ; beat like cake with ;i large spoon until very 
light and white. I'ut in a dish, smooth, place a lump of butter in the centre 
and sprinkle with ])ep]ier. 

jjscalloped Tomatoes- Arrange in alternate layers tomatoes and 
grated breail crumbs, seasoning with salt, pei)per, and a little powdered 
cinnamon. Have the to]) layer of crumbs, and dot with bits of butter. }5ake 
in a hot oven until ilone on top. Serve in the dish in which thev were 
baked. 

Saratoga Potatoes- Pare and cut into thin slices on a slaw-cutter 
four large potatoes (new are ihe best); let them stand in salt water while 
l)reakfast is cooking ; take a handful of the jiot.'iloes, sijueezethe water from 



in: 



Only the very best materials are used in manufactur- 
^ "JEWEL" Stoves and Ranges 



them and <lry in a najjkin ; separate the slices and droj) a handful at a time 
into a skillet of boiling lard, taking care that tliey do not .stick together ; 
stir with a fork till they are a light i)rown color, take out with a wire spoon 
drain well, and serve in an open dish. 

Peas Stewed in Cream -Put two or three pints of young green 
peas into a saucepan of boiling water ; when nearly done and tender, drain 
in a colander (piite dry ; melt two ounces of butter in a clean stew-pan, 
thicken evenly with a "little (lour, shake it over the fire but do not let it 
lirowii, mix si'noothly with a gill of cream ; add half a teaspoonful of white 
sugar, bring to a boil, pour in the peas, keep moving for two minutes until 
well heateil, serve hot. 

Stewed Celery— Wash the stalks thoroughly, and boil in well-salted 
water till tender, which will be in about twenty minutes. After it is made 
readv, drain it thoroughly, place it on toa.sted bread, and pour over it a 
(luaiitity of sauce. .A sauce of cream, sea.soned with a little mace, may be 
served over the celerv. It may al.so be served with melted butter. 

Stuffed Tomatoes- Twelve large, smooth tomatoes, one teaspoonful 
of salt, a little pepper,, one table.spoonful of butter, one of .sugar, one cupful 
of bread crumbs, one teaspoonful of onion juice. Arrange the tomatoes in 
a baking pan. Cut a thin .slice from the .smooth end of each. With a small 
spoon .scoop out as much of the pulp and juice as ])ossihle williout iniunng 
the shape. When all have been treated in this A'ay, mix the pulp and juice 
with the other ingredients and fill the tomatoes with this mixture. Put on 
the tops, and bake slowlv three-(piarters of an hour. Slide the cake turner 
under the tomatoes and lift gently on to a flat dish. Garnish with parsley 
and serve. 



12 



JIvWHI, ST0V1':S AM) RANGES. 



The Dominion Jewel Range 

With Cold Rolled Sheet Steel Oven 

LATEST AND BEST 
Four Sizes - Twelve Styles 




20ih CENTURY RANGE 

Ask for Booklet wherein is shown why the DOMINION 
JEWEL is BETTER Than any other Range 



The burrow, STEWART & MILNK Co. Limitkd, Hamilton 13 




m^'y 



SOUPS 

Tomato Soup — One quart of tomatoes, canned or raw; one quart of 
water. Stew till soft. Aci>l a teaspoonful of soda, allow the mass to efferven.se 
and then add a quart of milk and a few crackers rolled fine, with salt, butter 
and pepper to suit. 

Corn Soup -In making soups where meats are used, it is always well 
to boil the meat the day before it is wanted. This gives time for the fat to 
rise and be removed. Then to a quart of good stock add a pint of grated 
corn, cook fifteen minutes and stir in a quart of boiling milk. Thicken with 
a tablespoonful of butter rubbed smooth with two teaspoonsfulof flour. Season 
to taste with salt and jjcpper. Boil three or four minutes and serve while hot. 

Chicken and Oyster Soup— A very delicious soup is prepared as 
follows:— Pluck and cut up a n^edium-sized foul as for fricasseeing. Cover 
with water, and cook slowly, removing the .scum as it rises. When the 
chicken is tender, take it up, strain the broth and return it to the kettle. 
There should be a quart of the broth, which can be eked out with boiling 
water if it has boiled away. Add a quart of oysters with their jnice. and the 
same amount of scalding milk. Season to taste with a little salt and pepper, 
and a little mace and nutmeg if the flavor is liked. Thicken with a tea- 
spoonful of flour and butter rubbed together, and just before it is served stir 
half a teacupful of hot cream into the soup. 

Clam Soup — bring quickly to a boil the litjuor from thirty large clams, 
to which has been added three quarts of water. Add the clams, finely 
minced, and boil just three minutes. Stir in quickly four table.spoon.sful 
each of flour and butter rubbed together, a pint of milk, salt and pepper to 
taste. Remove from the stove and .stir in three well-beatten eggs and serve. 



The Steel Ovens, as constructed for the "JEWEL* line 
of Stoves and Ranges, will neither crack jnor warp, and the 
steel plate being of a uniform thickness, the heat is evenly 
distributed in all parts of the oven. 



Green Pea Soup — Four pounds of lean beef cut in small pieces, half 
a peck of green peas, a gallon of water; boil ennity pods of peas in water 
one hour; strain out, add beef and boil slowly one and one-half hours ; half 
an hour before serving sirain out meat, add peas ; salt and pepper to taste, 
and if you like add one teaspoon of sugar and a little thickening. 

Chicken Cream Soup — Boil an old fowl with an onion, in four c|uarts 
of cold water until there remain but two quarts. Take it out and let it get 
cold. Cut off the whole of the breast and chop very fine. Mix with the 
pounded yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and rub through a colander. Cool, 
skim and strain the soup into a soup pot. vSeason, add the chicken and egg 
mixture, .simmer ten minutes and pour into the tureen. Then add a small 
cup of boiling milk. 

Veal Soup — To about three pounds of a joint of vea'.. which must be 
broken up, put four quarts of water and set it over to boi). Prepare one- 
fourth pound of macaroni by boiling it by itself with sufficient water to cover 
it ; add a little butter to the' macaroni when it is tender, strain the soup and 
season to taste with salt and pepper, then add the macaroni in the water in 
which it is boiled. The addition of a pint of rich milk or cream and celery 
flavor is relished by many. 

MEATS 

Collops of Cold Meats— Take remnants of cold roast beef, mutton or 
veal ; cut them into pieces about three inches thick and four inches long. Roll 
them in flour and fry brown in butter or drippings; then lay them in a sauce- 
pan with half an onion minced fine, butter the size of an egg mixed smooth 



i4 



JI'VVl'-.I, STOVI'.S AND KAXGES. 



with a teaspooiifiil of Hour and a little pepper and salt. I'uur over ;i i)iiit of 
brown ^ravr, cover and simmer, hut do not boil. When the meat is verv 
tender scjuee/.e in the juice of half a lemon. vStir thoroughly and then serve. 

Pot Roast - Take a good rumj) of !)eef say five pounds, put it in iron 
pot, jjour over one cu]) of vinegar and one of water, .season with one onion, 
pepper and .salt to taste. Cover with close lid and let it steam until it boils 
dry. Turn the meat, and kt it roast till ))rown, then add one i)int of hot 
water. Mi.\ one tablespoon of Hour and a small luin]) of butter ; stir into the 
Writer to form the gravy. This will take about two hours in all to cook. 

Breaded lyamb Chops Have the chops nicelv trimmed, leaving a 
bit ol bone bare at the ends : season nicely with salt and pepper ; dip each 
one fust in beaten egg, then in bread or cracker crumbs, and frv to a 
delicate brown in hot lard. These make a very preltv lunch dish' if laid 
around a little mound of mashed and browned potatoes. ' .V garnish of cnrleil 
parsley adds to the eiTect. 

Ham Omelette -Mince very line the remnants of a knuckle of ham— 
a little lat with the lean is not objectionable. For a teacupful or less 
of the minced ham beat four or live eggs light, add a small i)inrh each of 
salt and pep])er and a large tabli'spoonful of milk for each egg u.sed. Pour 
it into a hot buttered spider and when it begins to stiffen strew over it the 
chopjied ham. When done, turn one half over the other and take up care- 
fully with a knife so ,is not to break it. 

Pressed Meat- -This is made from the feet, hearts and tongues of 
pigs. Wash and scrape the feet, cut the hearts open and remove anv blood 
tound in them, scald and .scrap the tongues, peeling them when cooked. 
Hoil all until the bones can easily be pulled from the feet. Kee]) a quantity 
of li(|uor in the vessel and add salt while the me.it is cooking. When done, 
remove from the licpior, i)ick the bones from the feet and chop allthe cooked 



After an expenditure of much time and thought the 
"JEWEL" line of Stoves and Ranges with Sheet Steel 
Ovens are offered to the public under the fullest guar- 
antee of their superiority. 



meat together; season with ])epi)er, salt and a du.st of celerv-salt, .and mix 
enough of the liquid with it to make it (juite moi.st, for the litpior will be- 
come jelly when cold. Place in a crock, with alternate lavers of hard boiled 
eggs sliced fine : set aside under a weight to stilTen. When used, cut in thin 
slices. vServe cold, with or without vinegar, or with salad dressing. 

Fried Ham and Apples Cut the ham in thin slices and fry to a 
iiice brown. Take it up ami keep it hot, while you frv in the fat left i'ti the 
pail some juicy apples that have been cut in thick, round slices, without 
peeling. Cook slowly until the ap])les are well done, then .sprinkle sugar 
on them and let them stand long enough to dissolve the sugar; then take up 
the apples either in a di.sh by themselves or laid on the ham, which .should 
previously be cut into convenient pieces for serving. 

Beef Roll — Two pounds of chopped beef, one cup of rolled crackers, 
one cuj) of sweet milk, (me egg, salt and pejjper. Mix thoroughly 
and make it in a roll. Pour two cups of boiling water over it. Bake about 
two hours in a moderate oven. 

Baked Fresh Tongue— Boil a fre.sh tongue until tender, then skin 
and dip in beaten egg, and roll in bread or cracker crumbs. Lav in a 
greased pan, and bake thirty minutes. Baste frequentlv 'vith l)utter. For 
a gravy, use a teacupful of the broth it was boiled in season to taste with 
butter, pepper, salt and catsup. Garnish the dish on which the tongue is 
jaid with parsley or slices of lemon if you have them, and serve hot. 



t 



>) 



Thiv burrow, STlvWART & MIIvNl-: Co. I.imiticd, Hamilton 15 

Meat Jelly— A knuckle of veal, one pound of beefsteak from the 
rountl, three jjinls of water (cold) ; boil, after skininiinj,', five or six hours, 
then take out the meat and separate it from the bonen and gristle ; cut it 
it into small pieces with knife and fork, and return it to the liquor ; season 
with salt and pe])per 'adding celery salt if agreeable); heat once more and 
pour into mould. Ivat cold. 

Roast Beef Heart Tliis is a very cheaj) dish, and with care in the 
cooking may be made very ])alatable. Wash the heart carefully, removing 
the cartilagincous [parts. Stnfl' with dressing i)repared as for roast turkey, 
season with i)e]>i)er and salt, and roast in a moderate oven two hours or less, 
according to size, basting frequently. When taken up, thicken the gravy 
and serve while very lint, 

Stewed I^amb Chops Cut three pounds of chojis from a loin of 
lamb, trim ;ind put on to stew in just enough water to come around, but not 
over thein. Remove the scum as it rises, and keep well covered; when very 
tender, season with salt and pep])cr and thicken with a tablespoonful eacli of 
(lour and butter rubbed together. Have ready on a platter a few slices of 
buttered, evenly browned toast. la\- the pieces of meat on the toast and pour 
the gnivy over all. 

Savory Beef Take three or four jxmnds of raw steak, or a shin of 
beet, cut it into small ])iei-es and split the bone. Put on to boil in water 
enough to come up around but not over the meat. Cover and cook very tender, 
or until the meat drops from the bones; then skim it out, chop fine and season 
to ta.ste with salt, pepper, ground cloves, sage, and as you like with thyme or 

Very few of tlie j^ood ihiiij^s of life can be had without looking 
for tlieni. If you waul a good Stove or Range (the best on the 
market ) don't go to a hardware store and buy one with your eyes 
.shut. Keey your eyes wide open, and buy one that has a reputa- 
tion, one that is FULLY GUARANTEKD, one that exhibits 
all the best features of stove construction. In short, buy a 
"JI'WICL" with a Cold Rolled vSheet Steel Oven. 



suuuuer savory. Place it in a deep dish and pour over the liquor in which 
the meat was cooked. When cool and stiff, cut into thin slices as used; to be 
eaten cold. Shin bones sup])ly gelatine enough to compact the meat. If round 
steak is used, a tablespoonful or two of gelatine (or more if the quantity is 
large) should be dissolved in the meat liquor to give firmness when cold. 

Veal Patties— Cut portions of the leg or breast of veal into very small 
pieces and stew fifteen to twenty minutes, then season with salt and pepper 
with a little finely chojjped celery if you have it. Stir to a paste a table- 
spoonful each of flour ;ind butter and the yoke of an egg, and mix this with 
the veal. Add milk enough to make a thin batter. Scald the mixture and 
it is ready for the patties. For the crust make either a puff paste or a rich, 
flaky crust, the same as for tarts. Roll out and cut the under crust the size 
of small sauce plates and the upper ones a little smaller. Bake in large tart 
pans, and when done carefully raise the top crust or cover and put in a large 
teaspoonful of the paste, lay the covers over and serve. Sm^l stewed oysters 
may be used in exactly the same way in place of the veal. 

Meat Balls — Chop very fine any remnants of cold veal, beefsteak or 
roast beef, or poultv, and to each teacupful of the chopped meat add the same 
amount of bread crumbs rolled fine. Season with pepper and salt and moisten 
with half a teacupful of the meat gravies, or with milk. Add also a table- 
spoonful of butter, and if liked a tablespoonful of union juice, or a very little 



i6 



JE\VKI< STOVKS AND RANCiKS. 



THE STERLING JEWEL 

^ ^ STEEL OVEN RANGE J- ^ 



The most handsome and best finished 4 hole range on the 

market. 




I,ow in price— and the most satisfactory working stove ever 
made for the money. Ask your dealer for particulars. 



wVXXA/WVW^XXXXX 



-MADE ONLY BY- 



The Burrow, Stewart & Milne Go. Limited 

HAMILTON. ^ CAtiAJifiL. 



'\ 



he 




er 



id 



Pressed Chicken 

a liUle Wilier with salt ami 
still warm lake out all the 



TiiK HURROW, STKWART vS: MII.NK Co. I.iMiTKD, Hamilton 17 

sliced onion, and the yolks of two e^gs. Mix thoroughly and make into 
balls or little cakes, and fry in meat drij)piiij,'s or in lard or butter, as pre- 
ferred. 

Veal Sweetbread Slice, put in cold water, drain and place in a 
skillet pre])ared with hot dripijin^s ; when brown on under side then turn ; 
make a stiff battel of two ef,'j,'s, half a pint of milk, llour to thicken and salt 
to 'aste and into it di]) each slice ; return to the skillet and fry brown over a 
i.oderate fire. 

Boiled l/eg of Mutton -I'ut nmtton in boiling water with a small 
jiiece of purk and boil, allowiuK frotn (ifteeii to twenty minutes for each 
pound of meat ; make a sauct of drawn butter, putting in hard boiled eggs 
sliced and capers. 

POULTRY. 

-Cut u]) the chicken and boil until very tender in 
pepj)er to taste, and ;i piece of butter. While 
hones and chop the meat rather line. Thicken 
the gravv with a little Hour and mix well with the cho])ped chicken. Put 
all in a "deep dish, press (k)wn lirmly, and set away until perfectly cold. 
Turn frotn the dish and cut in slices. 

Fried Chicken— Cut up vour chicken, wa.sh and dry the pieces well, 
di]) them all over in Hour. Have hot lard or butter ready. Tut the pieces 
ill and let them fry to a li^ht brown ; then take them out and keep them hot. 
.\dd some sweet cream to the ,i.;r:ivy, a large piece of butter rubbed in flour, 
and a little salt. Boil up and pour over the chicken, or give the chicken 
one gn<id boil in it. 

Chicken Pie— Prepare two young chickens as for stewing, cook them 
in sufficient water to leave enough' for gravy, season to taste with salt and 
pepper, and when tender skim <mt the chicken and thicken the gravy with 
flour previously wet with a little water and beat smooth to prevent lumps. 

A Steel Oven all in "One Piece" is quicker in its 
action, therefore better for baking Cakes, Pastry, etc. 

Line the sides of a tin basin or pudding dish with a rich soda biscuit crust, 
rolled oiie-(iu.irter inch thick. Lav the pieces of chicken in it so as to form 
as uniform a surface as possible, add a little more seasoning, if needed, then 
fill the dish with the gravv. Cover with a cru.st one-cpiarter inch thick, 
leaving a deep gash in the centre for the escape of .steam. Set in a moderate 
oven to bake. An hour will suffice for baking, unless very large. vSome 
place a layer of jjotatoes and a few bits of celery in the pie. While others 
prefer the chicken alone. 

Broiled Chicken Pick carefully, singe and draw. vSplit down the 
back, wash and wipe drv. Lay the chicken on the table, flatten the breasts 
and joir.ts and fold down the wings. Lay it on a greased gridiron, a folding 
wire one to hold the meat in place is best. Uroil over coals, watching care- 
fully and turning often to avoid .scorching and to cook all parts evenly ; 
baste frequently with melted butter. When nicely brown on all sides, put 
on a platter, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and pour over the melted butter 
used in basting. Garnish with curled parsley, if you have it, and you have 
a dish unsurpas.sed for delicacy. 

Chicken Pie— Cut up two young chickens, place in hot water enough 
to cover (as it boils away add more, so as to have enough for the pie and for 
gravy to serve with it, boil until tender ; line the sides of a four or six-quart 
pan with a rich baking powder or soda liiscuit dough a quarter of an inch 
thick ; put in part of the chicken, season with salt, pepper and butter, lay in 
a fev thin .strips or squares of dough, add the rest of the chicken, season as 
before: .some add live or six. fresh eggs. Season liquor in which the 
chickens were boiled with butter, salt and pepper, add a part of it to the pie, 



I8 



JKWKL ST(»VES AND RANGES 



The Banner Jewel 



'^ 



4^COOKINO HOI.£S^4 




i 



1 



Up-to-Date Small Range 



iSteel Oven ^J* ^ All Latest Fc 'f-res 



TiiK HUkKOW, STKWAKT iV: MII.N'K Co. Umitkd, Hamilton 19 



i 



cover with crusl a ([uarter of an inch thick with a hole in the centre the si/.e 
of a tfiicup. Keep addinj^ to the chicken htjuor as needecl. There can 
scarcely be too in\ich ^ravy. Hake one hour in a moderate oven. To make 
a gravy, add to the iiijuor left in the pot (if not enough add hot water 1 a 
tablespoonful of hiitter mixj'd to a paste witli the samti (luantity of flour, and 
season with pepper and salt. This should be '•ti, od a little at a time into 
liquor ; let it boil up aiui serve. 

Roast Duck— Wasii and dry the dncka »Mic:ally. Make a stulTing (■*' 
sage .md onion ; insert, md sew up completely that the seasoninj.^ may noi 
escii le. If lender, diuk '\o not rcijuire more than an hour lo roast. keep 
them well basted and a lew minutes before serving dredge lightly with flour, 
to make them froth itnl look plimip. Seiul to the table liot, wit li a good 
brown gravv poured ii' ' round bin ir them. Accompanv witli riiTent 
jelly and, it' in season, >;ieeii ])eas. 

Chicken Pie with Oysters Hoil the thicken a year oldchuken 
is tile best until tender, line the iish with a nice crust, jMit in the chu ken, 
.season with .salt, pepper and butler ; add the licjuorin which liie rliicken was 
boiled ;there should not be more than one pint), cover lcH)sely with a crust 
having a slit cut each way in the middle. Drain ofT the liquor from a quart 
of oysters, boil, skim, season with butter, pepper, sail, ancl a thickening of 
flour and water, boil up (jnce and pour over the ovsters, and .ibout twenty 
minutes before the pie is done lift the crust and \nit them in. 

Chickens for I<unch — S]>lii ;i young chicken down the back, wash 
and wipe dry, .season with salt and pepper. Put in a dripping pan and 
place in a moderate oven ; bake tliree-(|uarters of an hour. This is much 
better for lunch than when seasoned with butter. 



I, 



* 



3S 



In the process of manufacturing: Stoves and Ranges 
there are innumerable details which must be carefully 
watched to insure good results, and these are attained 
in the "JEWEL" line of Stoves and Ranges with Cold 
Rolled Sheet Steel Ovens- 



Chicken Patties -Mince chicken that has been ])rev aisly r()aste(l or 
boiled, and season well ; stir into this a sauce made of half pint of milk, 
into which, while boiling, a teaspoonful of corn starch has een added to 
thicken ; .season with butter, about a teasixionful, and salt md pepper to 
taste. Have reuly small ])ans lined with a good puff paste, .'.ake the crust 
in a brisk oven ; then fill the pans and put in the oven a ! w minutes to 
brown slightlv. 

EGGS. 

Minced Meat with Poached Eggs Chop cold meat as for ha.sh, 
removing all bits of fat and gristle. Warm in a sauce-pan v itli a little 
gravy, or if neither this nor soup stock is obtainable, moisten the meat with 
a little boiling water in which a des.sert-spoonful of butter has ! een melted. 
Season to taste. Cut the crust from square slices of bread, toas and butter 
lightly, and. heap a generous spoonful of the mince upon each ece. Set 
covered in a hot place while you jioach as many eggs as there a: people to 
be snp])lied. Lay one on top of each mound of mince, dust over v th pepper 
and salt, and servie hot. 

Baked Eggs — Rulter a dish and break into it as many e .;s as will 
cover Ihe botluta, ;,et iii the oven aiid bake till the whites are cooV d ; add a 
piece of butter, pep])er and salt ; .stir in quickly and serve. 

Puff Omelette— The yolks of .six eggs and the whites of thr -i beaten 
very light ; mix one tablespoonful of flour into a teacup of cream >t milk ; 



20 



jKWHL STOVKS AND RANGES. 



" Perfect Jewel" Steel Cook Stove 




rffl 



The finest Steel Cook Stove on the 
Canadian iVIarket. 



Built on the same Lines as our Crown 
Jewel Steel Range. 



PERFECT BAKERS 

ECONOMICAL IN FUEL 

LOW^ IN PRICK 

Up-to-Date in Appearance 



I 



i 

.1 



• • 



The burrow, STEWART .K: MILXI<: Co. LiMirr-n, HAMir/roN 



21 



e 



i 
I 



e: 



^stir into tlie beaten e^Rs, with salt and pepper to taste; melt a tablespoonful 
of butler in a pan ; pour into the mixture and set the pan into a hot oven ; 
when it thickens, pour over it the remainin),r whites of eggs well beaten, 
return it to the oven and let it bake delicate brown ; slip off on a large plate 
and eat as soon as done. 

Egg Gems— Mix chopped meat, bread crumbs, salt, pepper, butter and 
a little milk ; fill some buttered gem pans with the mixture, break an egg 
carefully upon the top of each gem, sprinkle a little salt, pepper and bread 
crumbs 'upon each egg, and bake eight minutes. Serve hot. 

Rumbled Eggs— Beat up three eggs with two ounces of fresh or 
washed l)utter; add a teaspoon of cream or fre.sh milk; put in a saucepan and 
keep stirring over the fire for five minutes, or till it rises : dish on toast. 

FISH 

Codfish and Potatoes— Pick up one teacupful of codfish, let it soak 
in lul^"ewarm water while vou mix two cups of cold mashed potatoes witli 
one pint of sweet milk, two eggs, a good-sized lump of butter, and pepper and 
salt if necessarv ; then add the codfish, mix all well and bake in a buttered 
pudding dish for from twenty-five minutes to half an hour. Serve hot. 

Baked Herring— Take salt herrings, soak them over night, roll in 
flour and tnitter, and place in a dripping pan with a very little water over 
them ; season with pepper. 

JEWELS! JEWELS! JEWELS! All jewels are prized 

according to their value, but it is probable that the 

JEWELS' manufactured by THE BURROW, STEWART & 

MILNE CO. Limited, give more genuine satiafaotion to 

their possessors th an any other kind . 

Fish Chowder The best fish for chowder are haddock and stripped 
bass although any kind of fresh fish niav be used. Cut in pieces over an 
incii thick and two inches square ; take eight good-sized slices of salt pork, 
put in the bottom of an iron pot and fry till crisp; remove the pork, leaving 
the fat ■ chop fine ; put in the pot a laver of fish, a layer of split crackers, 
and some of the chopped pork, black and red pepper, and chopped onions ; 
then another laver of fish, another of crackers and .seasoning, and so on. 
Cover with water and stew slowlv till the fish is perfectly done ; remove 
from the pot and put in a dish in which you serve it ; keep it hot, and 
thicken the gravy with rolled crackers or flour ; boil the gravy up once and 
pour over the chowder. 

Fi.sh Balls— Take equal (luantities of cooked fish of any kind, chopped 
fine, and mashed potato ; add a beaten egg and a tablespoonful of melted 
butter- mix and mash well with a wooden spoon; roll the balls in flour, and 
fry them with salt pork and a little lard or beef fat, gradually browning them. 

Salmon Cutlets— Cut the slices one inch thick and season them with 
pepper and salt ; butter a sheet of white paper, lay each slice on a separate 
piece their ends twisted ; boil gently over a clear fire and serve w-ith 
anchovv or caper sauce. When higher seasoning is required, add a tew 
chopped herbs and a little spice. 

Baked Whitefish— Fill the fish with a stufling of fine bread crumbs 
and a little butter ; sew up the fish ; sprinkle with butter, pepper and salt. 
Dredge with 'flour and bake one hour, basting often and serving with parsley 
or egg sauce. 

Baked Fish— The pan in which the fish is baked should have a rack to 
keep it out of the water, or several muflin rings may be used. After cleaning 
and drving carefull v, pass a skewer through the head, body and tail of the fish 
forming it into the figure S; place in a hot pan, sprinkle with salt, pepper and 



JHWKI. STOVE*> AND RANGKS 



tbe$ouri$6rand jewel 




2 Sizes Square « « 2 Sizes mh Cank 

J? digh'Chss Up-to-'Date Stove 

Large Oven^^Cold Rolled Steel 



This Stove is made with Duplex Grate, or fitted 

with improved Crates adapted for burning 

the different varieties of coal in 

Western Territories. 



The burrow, STFAVART .S: MILNE Co, Limitkd, Hamilton 23 



baste frequently witli biitlter and water, and bake tor a.i hour and a half if the 
fish weighs three or tour pounds. For sauce, cream halt a teacup ot butter, 
add the yolks of two egK«. one at a time, beating carefully, then the jmce ot 
half a lemon, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and half a teaspoonful of salt. Place 
in a thin bowl in a saucepan of boiling water. Beat briskly until ,t begms to 
thicken, and add half a cup of boiling water, beatmg all the time. When, like 
a soil custard, it is done, which should be in about live minutes, place the lish 
on a hot dish, pour sauce over it. garnish it with parsley and serve. 

BAKED Codflsh-Soak the fish over night; in the morning put it over 
to cook in water enough to cover. When tender pick very fine, and to each 
pint offish add a teaspoonful of butter, two beaten eggs, one-hall easpoonlul 
of pepper, and one and one-half pint of mashed potatoes. Mix well '"Retho ; 
bake in a pudding dish to a delicate brown. Make a sauce of drawn butter, 
into which cut up a hard-boiled egg. 

OYSTERS 

ESCALLOPED Oysters- Prepare either bread crumbs or rolled crackers 
in bulk equal to the ovsters. Place a layer of crumbs in the bottom ol a 
pudding dish, then a laver of oysters; season with salt, pepper and bits ot 
butter. Put in more lasers of crumbs, oysters, etc.. until the dish is full 
finishing with crumbs. Pour the oyster liquor on as the layers are addecl, and 
lastly fill the dish with milk and set in a hot oven. Cover for ten or lilteen 
minutes, then remove it and bake the top to delicate brown. Thirty to forty 
minutes are sufiicieiit for baking unless the dish is large. 



"KEEPING EVERLASTINGLY AT IT BRINGS SUCCESS" 
Every year we are making improvements in our Cook- 
ing Apparatus and now offer a full line of "JEWEL" Stoves 
and ranges, with Cold Rolled Sheet Steel Ovens, Perfect 
Bakers and Economical in the Consumption of Fuel, and 
nearer perfection than ANYTHING YET PRODUCED. 




browned and buttered toast, and serve hot 



nts of ovsters and cream, accortl- 




at once, while thus steaming hot. 




spoon 
bread and serve at once 



in be a 



FRIED Ovsters— nrain the ovsters and dry them on a cloth ; dip each 
eaten egg. then in cr.icker dust, season with a little salt and pepper, lay 



■\. 



24 



JEWEL vSTOVES AND RANGES 



THE ALBERTA GRAND JEWEL 

2 si^ES SQUAR:e 2 si2;es tank 




For Hard or Soft Coal or Wood . Special Grates for 
North-West Coals. 



THE HOME JEWEL 

SQUARE OR WITH TANK. 




Duplex Grate for Hard or Soft Coal or Wood. 

An old Family Stand-by. 
Both these Stoves Fitted with Steel Oven. 



\- 



The burrow, STI'WART &]MILNE Co. Limited, Hamilton 25 



them in a fryine basket and set in boiling fat. Cook to a delicate brown ; 
hen take up on unglazed paper to absorb any fat that may still chng to them. 
Keep in a warm place untill all are cooked, then garnish the dish on which they 
are served with curled parsley or slices ot lemon. 

OvSter Pie-Frepare a rich crust or a puff paste, line the sides and bot- 
tom of a pudding dish ; fiH it with pieces of bread or crackers, and cover with 
a thick crust well greased or buttered at the edges so as to separate easily. 
Bake to a very delicate brown. Then carefully loosen the edges, remove the 
top crust, then empty out the baked crusts to be used for other purposes. 
Have the oysters prepared and seasoned as for a nice stew and cooked 
enough to be most palatable and digestible just when the crust is done. Pour 
these in, replace the upper crust, and serve at once. 

OVSter Fritters— Hrain off liquor ; boil, skim and to a cupful add a cup 
of milk, two or three eggs, salt and pepper, and flour enough to make a rather 
thick batter. Have hot lard or beef drippings in a skillet ready, drop the 
batter into it with a large spoon, taking up one oyster (or each spoonful. 1 he 
oysters must be large and plump. 

The system of Oven Ventilation employed in the construction 
of nearly all "JEWEL" Cooking Stoves and Ranges is as simple 
as it is perfect in operation. Behind the oven door panel, and 
operated by a projecting handle, is a register. When this register 
.s thrown open fresh air is introduced into the oven to replace the 
heated and vitiated air that passes out through small holes into the 
back flue, thence to the chinniey. This system of oven ventilation 
(which is merely an application of the well-known principle that as 
the hot air rises fresh rushes in to take its place) will comir.end 
itself, particularly to those who fail to understand the complica- 
tions of other systems, which, theoretically operating in opposi- 
tion to the principles of heat mentioned, do not operate at all. 



SALADS 




„.ip ot vinegar, 
cream. Mix the condiments dry, add the vinegar, and put over hot water to 
cook. When hoc add the eggs, beaten light, and cook till as thick as cream. 
Add the cream, then mix cabbage nnd dressing together. 

Potato— Slice eight cold boiled potatoes into a tray, and add one large 
onion to the eight potatoes. Chop fine and add four hard boiled eggs. Make 
a dressing of tive tablespoonsful of vinegar to three tablespoonsful of oil, one- 
quarter spoonful of pepper, and one of salt ; pour this on the vegetables and 
serve with lettuce. 

Potato— Cut in dire shapes cold beets and potatoes, and place on lettuce 
leaves in your dish ; over this pour three tablespoonsful of oil and dressing 
made of french mustard, salt, pepper and vinegar to make a paste ; lay this 
on top of all and serve. 

Salmon— Set a can of salmon in a kettle of boiling water, let it boil twenty 
minutes ; take out of can, pour off the oil, and put in a deep dish ; put a few 
cloves in and around it, sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover with cold vinegar 



I' * 



26 JEWEL STOVES AND RANGES 

grand "3ewcl" 

4 COOKING HOLES 4 

4 Sizes for Wood, Square 

3 Sizes for Coal, Square 

4 Sizes for Wood, with Tank 

3 Sizes for Coal, with Tank 




Cold Rolled Sheet Steel Oven in One Piece. 

PERFECT BAKERS 

ECONOMICAL WITH FUEL 



THE GREATEST OF ALL WOOD COOK STOVES. 



We also make this stove constructed as fa 

range under the name of the " Household " 

Jewel. There is nothing better. 



Thk burrow. STEWART & MILNE Co. Limitkd, Hamii/ion ay 



flour and lei it stand a <lav ; take out of the viiiej,'ar and jnit m a salad dish. 
Prepare a, dressing as follows: Mash the yokes of two hard-boiled eggs as tine 
as possilAe with the back of a silver spoon, add the yolks of two raw eggs, 
one bv due, beating two minutes each time, add gradunlly a ta1)lespoontul of 
niade'nufetard, three of melted butter or the best salad oil, a little salt and 
pepper afifl vinegar (or lemon juice) to taste. Heat the mixture a long time 
and i)Our upon the salmon. Garni.sh under the bottom with sprigs of celery. 
Celery— Chop three bunches of celery line with a small head of cabbage. 
Take a teacupful of vinegar, the yolks of two eggs, a tablesjjoonful of butter, 
one teaspoonful each of mustard and salt, one tablespoonful of sugar and a 
pinch of cayenne. Mix the.sp ingredients together smoothly, heat until it 
begins to thicken. Stir until partly cool, then add two tablespoonfuls of 
sweet cream. Pour it over the salad just before taking it to the table. If 
thicker than desirable, add more vinegAr. 

PASTRY--PIES. 

Squash Boil the squash until well done and .sift through a colander. 
To everv teacupful of .squash add one egg, one-half teacupful of sugar, one 
teasixionful of (lour, one-half teasjwonful of ginger, a little nutmeg, and a 
dash of allspice ; add enough milk to make it the right consistency for baking. 
.\ few spoonfuls of jnire, sweet cream are considered a gre.it addition. 

Mince Three pounds of chopi)ed beef, one-half jiound of suet, five 

pouiuls of chopped apjjles, two jiouiids of currants, four pounds of raisins 
(put in whole), one-half pound of citron (shredded finei, three jiounds of 
brown sugar, two cpiarts of molasses, two wine glasses of brandy (if you 
likei, two jiounds of apple jelly i any jelly will do), six table.spoonfuls of 



If people but knew how much care is given to the 
manufacture of "JEWEL ' Stoves and Ranges they would 
then understand why these goods are the best. 



cinnamon, one ounce of ginger, two ounces of cloves, one ounce each of 
mace and allspice, two ounces of .salt, one nutmeg, three lemons (grate the 
outside and u.se the juice), one pint of water, one can of fruit (you can omit 
the fruit if vou wish) ; u.se cold cotTee for extra wetting. This makes about 
three gallons, and is delicious. Cook until the apples are thoroughly done. 

I/emon Juice and grated rind of one lemon, one cup of sugar, the yolks 
of three eggs well beaten, .small i)ieces of butter, three tablespoonfuls of 
milk, two teaspoonfuls of corn starch ; beat all together and bake in a rich 
crust : beat the whites with three tablespoonfuls of sugar, spread on the pie 
when done, and brown in the oven. 

Orange and Apple— Cover a deep pie plate or tin with a rich crust ; 
over it i)lace a layer of sliced oranges, with the seeds removed ; scatter .sugar 
over thicklv, add a laver of apples, more sugar, and a layer of oranges and 
a})i)les together, cover with a crust and bake until the apples are tender ; 
sift ))owdered sugar on top, and serve hot. 

Apple It goes without saying that to make a good apple pie one needs 
sour, juicy apples. Pare and slice thin, cover the pie tin or plate with a good 
crust, not too rich, and having in it a little baking powder to make it light 
and digestible. Lav the apples over the under crust, strew sugar thickly over 
with bits of butter, flavor with nutmeg or lemon as preferred and add a little 
water (a few spoonfuls only), cover and pinch the crust closely down to pre- 
vent the escape of the juice. Bake in a moderate oven. Rapid baking is much 
more likely to toil out the juice. A little pipe or tube made of white paper 



28 



JKWKI, STOVKS AND RANGES 



in the centre allows fnnies and steam to escape, and retains any jnices flow- 
ing ont in centre, ilins preventing? tlietn from smearing the ontside of dish. 

Cream -rut on a pint of milk to hoil, break two eggs into a bowl, add 
one cup of wliite sugar, one-half cup of Hour, and after beating well stir into 
the milk just as it commences to boil; keep stirring one way till it thickens; 
flavor with lemon or anything you choose. Hefore making the cream make, 
a paste for three })ies ; roll out and cover the plates, roll out and cover a 
second time. When baked and cjuite warm separate the edges with a knife, 
lift the upper crust and fill in the cream. 

Cocoatitlt one pint of milk, cocoanut, one teacup of sugar, three eggs, 
grate the cocoanut, mix it with the yolks of the eggs and the sugar, stir in 
the milk, tilling the pan even full, and bake. Heat the whites of the eggs 
to a froth, stirring in three tabUspoon.sfnl of jndverized sugar ; pour over 
the pie and bake to a light brown. If prei)areil cocoanut is useti, one heap- 
ing teacup is required. 

CAKES 

Snow — One and a half cupsful of powdered sugar, one cupful of flour, 
one large teaspoonful of cream of tartar, the whites of ten eggs, two tea- 
spoonsful of lemon. 

Sponge — I'-Qurteen eggs, the weight of eleven eggs in sugar and the 
weight of seven in flour ; beat sugar and yolks togetlier ; add the whites 
when beaten stiff, and a little lemon or nutmeg The flour must not be 
stirred in until the mixture is ready for the oven. 

Ginger Bread — One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one cup of 
molasses, one cup ot sour milk, three eggs, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved 
in the milk, three cups of Hour, one teaspoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful 
of cinnamon. Bake in .square tins. 



The long centres of all "JEWEL" Stoves an' Ranges 
with Cold Rolled Sheet Steel Ovens are cut in the middle 
to provide for expansion without warping. At this point 
they are supported by a heavy post, and being so made 
they will not under any circumstances warp. 



Fruit — One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one pour Mtter, 

twelve eggs, one ounce of cinnamon, one ounce of cloves, one nutxi. tree 

pounds of currants, two pounds of rasins, one-half pound of citron, a little 
ginger and molasses, a glass of wine and brandy. Bake three hours. 

Spice — Two cups of ? ugar, one cup of butter, four eggs, two-thirds of a 
cup of milk, two cups of flour, three teaspoonsful of baking power, one tea- 
spoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of allspice, two teaspoonsful of cina- 
mon, part of a nutmeg, two cups of rasins. 

Ginger — Put into a tea-cup one teaspoonful of soda, two table.spoonsful 
of cold water, three tablespoonsful of melted lard, salt and ginger to taste ; 
fill the cup with good New Orleans molasses, mix ver}' stiff, roll thin, cut 
round and bake in a <juick oven. Measure again for a large baking. 

Citron — One pound ot sugar, one of flour, three-fourths of a pound of 
butter, eight large or ten small eggs, one and a fourth pounds of citron 
finely .shredded ; cream, butter and sugar ; add the yolks (beaten and 
strained), then flour and well-whipped whites ; put a layer of batter in cake 
pan and sprinkle thickly with citron, then another layer of batter, etc., 
until pan is filled. Bake slowly one and a half to two hours. 



Thk burrow, STKWART & MILNK Co. Limited, llAMii/roN 29 



Jelly—One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, three eggs, four table- 
spoonfuls of water, one and one-half cups of flour, two tablespoon fuls of 
baking powder. 

Bride— Take four pounds of sifted Hour, four pounds of sweet, fresh 
butler beaten to a cream, and two ixnnuls of while powdered sugar; take 
six eggs for each pound of Hour, an ounce of ground nutmegs, and a table- 
siKKMiful of lemon or vanilla extract. 

Gold and Silver -Gor.i) Tart : Yolks of eight eggs, scant cup of 
butter, two of sugar, four of (lour, one of sou*- milk, a teaspoonful of soda, 
a tablespoonful of corn starch ; flavor with lemon or vanilla. Sii.vKK P.\RT : 
Two cups of sugar, one of butter, four (scant) of flour, one of sour milk, a 
teaspoonful of soda, a tablespoonful of corn starch, the whites of eight eggs; 
flavor with almond or peach. Put in pan alternately one spoonful of gold 
and one of silver. 

lycmon Jelly— One and a half cups of sugar, a half cup of butter; 
beat to a cream ; three eggs well beaten, a h^lf cup of milk ; two and a half 
cups of flour, two teas])oonfuls of baking powder ; bake in layers. jKiJ.v : 
•ne cu]) of sugar, one egg, juice and grated rind of one lemon, a lialf cup of 
cold water, one tablespoonful of corn starch. Place the dish in boiling 
water until it thickens, spread between the layers, ice the top. 

Caramel— One teacupful each of sugar and of sour cream, three eggs 
(the whites oidv make a light cake and contrast with the fllling), two tea- 
cupfids of flour and a teaspoonful of soda. For the fllling use one teacupful 
of brown sugar, enough sweet cream to thoroughly moisten and dissolve the 
sugar, and a lum]i of butter as large as a hickory nut. Put this preparation 
in a small basin or cup, .set on the back of the stove until it begins to simmer, 
then boil until it is ropy, when it should be removed from the .stove ; beat a 
few moments and it is ready to spread between the layers and on top of the 
cake. 

The users of "JEWEL" Stoves and Ranges are our 
best advertisers If you wish to learn of their merits, 
consult those Avho use tiicm. 



Philadelphia Sponge— One cup of pulverized sugar, one cup of flour, 
one-lhird cu]) of sweet milk, three eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
one-half teasi)oonfu' of soda ; beat the whites and yolks of the eggs .separ- 
ately and thoroughly, add the whites ',.\ST, mix and bake in a hot oven. 

Sunny South— One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of 
flour, one-h ilf cup of milk, the yolks of five eggs, one teaspoonful of cream 
tartar, one-half tea.s])oonful of soda ; flavor to taste. 

PUDDINGS. 

I^emon-Rice Hoil half a ]iint of rice in one quart of milk until very 
soft, add to it while hot the yolks of four eggs, grated rind of two and juice 
of one lemon, four tablesiioo'nfuls of sugar and a pinch of salt. If too thick, 
add some cold milk it should be a little thi '- than boiled custard). Beat 
the whites of the eggs very stiff, together wiiii eight tablesjxxDtifuls of sugar 
and juice of one lemon. Spread on the top and brown in a quick oven. To 
We eaten icy cold. 

Queen of Puddings— One pint of nice tine bread crumbs, one quart 
•f milk, one cu]) of sugar, the yolks of four eggs, the grated rind of one 
lemon, a piece of butter the size of an egg, bake until done, but not watery. 
Beat the whiles of the eggs very stiff, togclricr with u teacupful of sugar and 
the juice of one lemon. Spread over the pudding a layer of fruit or jelly, 
spread the whites of the eggs over this and brown in a quick oven. To be 
eaten hot or cold. 



.^" 



II-;\Vi;i, SToXl'S and KAN'C.I'iS 



IDEAL JEWEL PARLOR COOK 



STEEL OVEN 




^-..^..i„,.„,„ 



UNSURPASSED FOR EITHER HEATING OR COOKING. 



TiiK BIRRUW, STKWART .S: MII.Nlv Co. l.iMi'fKi 



.III.TON 



.1 



Cocoanut and Tapioca Soak three tHi)iosp(ion • oi .n.. , lo.d 

AvitiT over nielli, l>uil one i|u.irl ot milk, ailil ta|mieii ,iiul be ive ' umite- ; 
then nM the volks ol tour eg^s ami three lahl. spooiisliil ot ilrvsicated coco 
nut ; boil ten 'initiules. turn mlo a dish to cool, flavor. He. ' t whites of 1^ 
eggs and two tablespoonstul ot sugar lo a loam, spread tin ''«• lop ol tl 

pudding and scatter cocoanut over it. Set in an oven to hr(i\, i .. little. 

Berry -Fill a pudiling dish hall lull with canned blackberries or rasp- 
berries and make a biseuit crust lor the top. Hake and serve with a boiled 
sauce Havoreil with the berry juice. , , ,■ 

TaplOCil- Hnil one<|iiart ot milk and add tour tablespoonstul ol pearl tap- 
ioca that has been soaked in cold milk or water lor an hour, anil hall a lea- 
spoonful or sill. Cook slowly in a ilouble kettle for three-iiuai lers of an hour, 
then add the well-beaten volks of four eggs and ihree-lourihs cup ol while 
sugar: cook lifieen minutes longer, stirring eonstantly. Alter it is cool. Ilavor 
with one teaspoonful of vanilla and pour in a pudding dish. Pour over the 
top halt a pint of whipped cream, which has been sweetened, or the whites ol 
three eggs beaten slitT. 

Apple -ll you have select, juicy, tart apples, pare and slice enougli to 
nearly till as large a pudding dish as needed lor the family. Strew on them a 
little sugar ; add a teacuplul or less of water ; cover and bake it in I ho oven 
until partly done. Make a nice soda biseuil crust, roll it one-hall inch thick, 
gash the centre for escape of steam, and place it over the appl.-s. Uelurii to 
the oven and bake until the crust is done. Kat hot with sugar and cream, or 
wit.i a hard sauce made by rubbing butter and sugar together, and flavonng 
with nutmeg, v.inilla, bitter almond, or lemon as prelerreil. 

Apple-TaoiOCa - Soak a leacuplul of l.ipioca o>er night m a pint .'t warm 
water, in the'moniing pare and slice about si.x large sour apples, place them 
in a pudding dish, strew sugar over them ; cover and bak.> until solt. then mix 
with the softened tapioca, add a pinch ol salt and three or tour t;.b espoonsful 
o( sugar, according to the tartness of the apples. Hake in a moderate oven 
to a delicate brown. Eat cold with sugar and eieam or sugar and milk. 

Engl Sh Plum Heat verv light the whiles ol tour eggs and the yolks o 
six- adil to them a pint of sweet milk and stir in gradually a pound ot flour :md 
a ciuarter of a pound of stale breail grated fine, three quarters ol a pouiul o 
sugar and a pound each of beef suet chopped tine, rasins with seeds removed 
and well lloured. currants washed and dried ; add two grated nutmegs, a 
tablespoonful each of ground cinnamon and mace and one teaspoonful of salt ; 
mix all well together and boil in a mould five hours. Serve with a ricn hot 
sauce or drawn butter or sugar, flavored with nutmeg or vanilla. This pudding 
will keep a long time. \V!-en to he used heat thoroughly. It wanted specially 
nice, add a pound of blanched sweet almonds pounded fine, or a pound ot 

citron sliced line. r , c i < 

Boiled Apple -Two cups of sour milk, two teaspoonsful of soda, one ol 
salt with flour make a dough a little stifl'er than for biscuit; quarter and core 
apples, put four pieces in each dumpling with a little sugar (it is ^vcll to tie a 
cloth around eachl, put into a kettle of boiling water slightly salted, boil halt 
an hour, taking care that the water covers the dumplings ; they are also very 
nice steamed. To bake, make in the same way, using a soft dough ; place m 
a shallow pan, bake in a hot oven and serve with cream and sugar. 

Fiff-IIalf a pound of tigs, quarter ot a pound of grated bread, two and a 
half ounces of powdered sugar, three ounces of butler, two eggs, one teacupful 
of milk • chop the figs fine and mix with the butter, and by degrees add ttie 
other ingredients ; butter and sprinkle with bread crumbs a mould, closely 
cover and boil for three hours. .,,,., ■ , i 

PPUne-Scald one and a quarter pints of sweet milk, thicken with a large 
tablespoonful of crown starch mixed smooth with a little cold milk ; sweeten 
fo taste ■ add three well he.aten eggs, butler the size of a walnut, and a " <le 
erated nutmeg When this mixture has come to a boil add a teacuptui ot 
stewed prunes from which the ston-s are removed. Place in a buttered pud- 
ding dish and bake twenty to thirty minutes. Serve hot, with cream and 
sugar, or with whipped cream. 



32 



JKWKL STOVKS AND RANGES 



THE MODERN JEWEL 



PARLOR COOK 




^.■. 



SMALLER THAN THE IDEAL JEWEL-THAT'S ALL 



TnK HrRkOW, STIvWART \ Mll.NK Co. IjMrriU). Hamilton 33 

Apple Roley Foley — I'eel. qnHrter and core sour apples; nuike ^ood 
bihtim doiinh, Kill to hall ati iiu :!• ih.ck, slice llu- iiiiat icrs and lay oi\ the pre- 
pared paste or criisi ; roil up, luek i-iids in, priik deeply with .> lork, lay ni .1 
steamer placed ovt 1 a kettle of boiling \Naier ; eook an hour and a ipiartei, or 
boil hard until cooked in ha^js ; cut across, and eat wilh sweetened erean\ or 
butter and su^ar. Cht-rriesor any kind ol berries can be used instead of apples. 

Batter One quart ot n-,''k, lour e^^'s, six ounces ol flour, a little soiia 
and salt : mix the flour very ». • ..ily with a little milk so it will not be lumpy; 
bake twenty minutes. Servi- i:ui«ediali-ly. 

CREAMS AND CUSTARDS 

Blanc Mange One quart ol milk, tour tablespooushil ol com slarcli, 
tour e^^cs, one-halt cup ofsu^ar, one tablespoonlul ol vanilla. 

CreaiM Puffs — One teacup ol boiling water, buHer the size of a sm.ill 
e^K ; null ilie butter in hot water, stir in lhrei--toui tlis of a cup ol siltetl flour : 
cook one minute, stirring const.inlly ; cool, then stir in two well-beaten •KK'-' 
first the yolks, then the whiles; bake in a slow oven three-iiuai ters ol an houi-. 
Just belore putting on the table make a small incision in the side ol each |uili 
and till it wilh the following cream: One cup ot sweet milk, one egg, one 
heaping teaspoon of corn starch, sugar to taste. Cook in .i dish ol water and 
flavor with vanilla when cokl. 

Cup Custards— Hreak one large, well beaten egg in each cup, and fill 
nearly lull wilh sweet milk; sweeten to taste and flavor. Place the cups m 
i' jjan of boiling water on top of the stove and cover ; cook until thick. W hen 
t 'Id turn out into saucers and serve *or dessert with cream. 

Steamed Custards— Hoil in adouble kettle one quart ot milk, four eggsi. 
and Ihree-fourths of a cup ol white sugar. When this boils reniove it Irom 
the stove, and after cooling add one teaspoonlul ol vanilla, and pour into small 
custard or egg cups. The above amount will make twelve cups. Place Hum 
in a steamer over boiling water, and stea.ii them till they thicken like the 
custard in custard pies. Try with llie haiidk ol ;i teaspoon to see it they are 
done. (.Irate a nutmeg over each one ami serve them cold with cake lor 
ilessert or tea. 

Apple Snow Add to the pulp of eight baked apples a half pound of 
powdered sugar, the juice of one lemon and the whites ot three eggs ; beat 
all well together for one hour. Make a cistard of the yolks of the eggs, suga. 
and milk, place in a dish, and drop the froh on this in large flakes. 

Floating Island -.Make a custard of the yolks of six eggs, oiu quart ot 
milk, a pinch ot salt, and sugar to taste; beat and strain the yolks belore 
adding to the milk ; place the custard in a large tin pan and set on the stove, 
stirring constant Iv until it boils, then remove, flavor with lemon or rose and 
pour into a dish (a" shallow, wide one is best), spread smoothly over the boil- 
ing hot custard the well-beaten whites of the eggs, grating some loat 'ngat 
and cocoanut on the top. Set your dish in a pan ot ice water and serve .:oid. 
Baked Custard— Eight well-beaten eggs (leaving out two w bites foi the 
top) and three pints of milk; sweeten and flavor to taste ; bake two hours. 
Beat the two whites stilT for the top with a little powdered sugar. 

Russian Cream— One-quarter of a box of gelatine dissolved in one pint 
of boiling milk (soak lirst), add yolks of two eggs well-beaten and one-halt 
cup of sugar, stirring constantly ; let it come to a boil and remove from fire ; 
when cooled add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff troth pour into a 
mould ; set it on ice till hard. 

Rice Custard -One cup of cooked'rice, one quart of sweet milk, three 
ess-s, one cup of sugar, one-fourth teaspoonfnl of salt, one tablespoonful of 
of butter, one cup of rasins. 

Apple Cream- -Stew soft and strain a dozen medium-sized tart apples; 
while hot add six beaten eggs and sugar to taste. Beat until stiff and serve 
with whipped cream sweetened and flavored. 



34 



JHVVIvL STOVKS AND RANC.I'S. 



JELLIES AND JAMS. 

Lemon Jelly -TaUf a papor ot golatim- and U;l il soak in a pint of toki 
svalor over niijlit. TIioei add to it a quart ol boilinjj walor, the juice ol tour 
lemons and a'pint and a lialf ot su^'ar. Stir well and. strain into moulds to 
cool. 

Quince Jelly —I^nb the quinces with a cloth until they aie perfectly 
smooth, cut in small pieces, pack tij;ht in your kettle, pour on cold water until 
level with the fruit, boil imtil very soft ; inal^o a three-cornered flannel bag, 
pour fruit in and hang up to drain, occasionally pressing on the top and sides 
to make the juice run more freely, taking care not to press hard enough to 
expel the pulp. To every pint of juice add a pint of suj,ar, and boil fifteen 
minutes or until it is jelly. Pour into tmiiblers or bowls and finish according 
to general directions. If quinces are scarce, the pat ings and cores of quinces 
with good tart apples boiled antl strained as above, make excellent jelly ami 
the quinces may be saved for preserves. 

Currant Jam Prepare the fruit by carefully cleaning and thoroughly 
l)ruising. as mashing il before cooking prevents it from becoming hard ; boil 
eight or tei> minutes, add one cofVeecup of sugar to every pint of mashed 
friiit, and let boil ten minutes longer: pour in cans, let stand five minutes, and 
seal. 

Strawberrj' Jam Sprinkle three pounds of sugar over two quarts of 
berries, K". them stand an hour, mash, and boil twenty minutes. 

Crab Apple Jelly — Hoil the apples, mash with potato masher aiid 
strain : take one pint of sugar to a pint of juice, boil a pint at a time till it will 
tliop from spoon in jelly. To make nice marmalade, add sugar to the pulp, 
pint for pint, boil half an hour, siirring all the while; put into small jars and 
co\er the lop with writing jiaper. 

SAUCES, PRESERVES, ETC. 

Quinee Sauce Pare half a peck of nice quinces, cut them into quarters, 
core ihem, and weigh out an equ.il amount of sugar. Lay the cjuinces close 
together, with the cores upw.inls, in a preserving kettle. Strew some of the 
■^ugar thickly over them ; adil another layer of ipiinces and sugar, and so on 
until all are in ; then to each pound of sugar take a teacupful of vvater, pour it 
over the quinces, and cook lliem slowly until they are done. For the above 
amount take half a jieck of juicy, sweet apples, boil them soft in a pint or two 
of water, tlien pour them into a jelly bag, and drain. Skim the quinces out of 
their syrvip, and add the strained apple juice to it. Hoil the mixture twenty or 
Ihiity mimites, or until very rich ; then i>our it over the ipiinces. They should 
be kept hot meanwhile in the bottles in which they are intended to be sealed. 

Quince Marmalade -Pare and core the quinces and boil the skins and 
cores in enough water to cover them ; cook until done; strain and pour the 
strai'unl juics over the quinces. Cook them in it imtil they are verv soft, then 
rub hem through a sieve, and adtl to the pulp as many poimds of sugar as 
there are pounds of pulp. After it begins to boil, its needs frequent stirring 
to prevent its sticking to the kettle. When, on trial, it stifVens or jellies, take 
up, and when cold cover it like jelly. 

Cranberry Sauce — Pick over the cranberries, leaving, none but perfect 
ones, and wash them ; cook in an enamelled or porcelain-lined kettle, in water 
enough to come pretty well up but not over the berries. Cook very soft ; 
strain through a sieve. Heat the pulp, and while hot add bulk for bulk of hot 
sugar, then boil again ten to fifteen minutes or until it stitTens on cooling. 
Pour into moulds' or bowls while hot. It will keep some time without iviould- 
ing, but can be covered like any fruit jelly and thus last tor quite a long time. 

Pineapple Marmalade -Pare nice, ripe pineapples. Take a silver fork 
and shred it (easily done) ; add one pound of loaf or granulated sugar to one 
pound of fruit, 



The burrow, STEWART & MILNE Co. Limited, Hamilton 35 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S HELPFUL 
STANDARD 

Four saltspoonsliil ol liciuid ei|iial one teaspoonfiil. 
Four teaspooiisl'ul 01 liquid equnl one tHbk'spooiif'ul. 
Three teaspoonstui ot'iiry material ei|ual one tablespoonful. 
Four tablespooiistul ol' liiiuid i-qual one wineglassful, one ^\\\ or one- 
i|uarter cup. 

Sixteen tablespoonsful olliciuid, one cup. 

Eight heaping tablespoonstiil of dry material, one cup. 

Two frills, one cup or hall-pint. 

Four cups ot liquid, one ipiart. 

Four cups ol Hour, one quart or one pounil. 

Two cups of solid butter, one pound. 

One-halt' cup ot buttor, one-c|uarter of a pound. 

Two cups ot'grainilated sugar, one pound. 

One pint ot niilk or water, one pound. 

One rouitd tablespoonful of butter, one ounce. 

Nine large eggs or ten medium, one pound. 

One pint of choppeil meat solidly oacked, one poinid. 

One round tablespoonful of butter, one ounce. 

One heaping tablespoonful ol butter, '.wo ounces or a quarter ol a cup, 

"Hu'ter the size of an egg," two ounces or a quarter of a clip. 

One heaping tablespoonful of sugar, one ounce. 

Two round tablespoonsful ot tlour, coflee or powdered sugar, one ounce. 

One teaspoonful of lit|uid, one-half ounce, 

With this we give also Mrs. L s table ot proportions : 

One scant measure of liquitl to three full measures ot flour— lor bread. 
One scant measure of liquid to one full measure of Hour—for muffins. 
One scant measure of liquid to one full measure of tlour -for batters. 
One-half cup of yeast or one-quarter of a cake of compressed yeast to one 
pint of liquid. 

One even teaspoonful of soda or two lull teaspoonslul ot c'cam tartar to 

one ipiart of Hour. 

Three heaping or live even teaspoonslul of baking powder lo one quart ol 

Hour, 

One teaspoonful of soda lo one pint of sour milk. 

One teaspoonful of soda to one cup of molasses. 

One sallspoonful of salt lo one quart of milk for custards or one loal ol 
sponge cake. ... . 

One teaspoonful of extract to one quart of custard or a loal ot plam cake. 

One teaspoonful of salt to one quart of soup stock. 

One teaspoonlul of salt to I wo quarts of Hour. 

One saltspoonlul of white pepper to one quart of soup stock. 

One teaspoonful of mixed herbs to one quart of soup stock. 

One teaspoonful each of chopped vegetables to be used with one quart 

of stock, 

A "speck" of cayenne pepper is wliat may be taken on the pomt ot a pen- 
knife. 

A pinch of salt or spice is about a saltspoonlul. 

,A pinch of hops is about a ipiarter of a cup. _ 

The above seasoning is for moderate tastes.— Detroit Free I res.s. 

HOUSEHOLD "IPS" 

If I were about to begin housekeeping and intended to be maid as well as 
mistress, I should certainly commence my furnishings at the kitchen, and have 



every utensil there 



modern and lirst-class, even though it neccssitatcu econo- 



mizing in other parts of the house. 

If I knew what make of kitchen range was re 



not hesitate for a (ew additional dollars in 



liable and well made I should 
first cost, it is a 'spending that saves.' 



.^f' 



JKWKI. STOVKS AND RANGES. 



It 1 could alloiil (lie expeii'io 1 woiiKi have a good |),iit of my sloveware 
t'Daiiielk'ii. 

:;■ . w :■ "*■»** 

U I lould atToid it 1 would not purchase tinware at aso-called "Five Cent 
Store." Siicli tinware as ihey lianciie is a delusion and a snare ; the coatinijot' 
this tin is so thin it c|uickly wears oft, leaving tile dishes positively dangerous 
to use. Insteail ot such ware I should ad\isi' getting the hest, it possible. 

It possible, have a clock in the kitchen. At the price one can be obtained 
for, you cannot allbrii to i uii the risk ol guessing or the time to go elsewhere 
and look. 

It you wouKI be a successtul cook, have a gooil set of ilomestic scales. 
Accurate weights ani.1 measures go far toward insuring success in this art. 

It old housekeepers would .ilways remember, when preparing recipes, 
that the majority wiio try them will be young ami ine.xperieiu ed, tiie\ would 
certainly be n.ore caieful and explicit in giving directions. 

It inexperienced cooks would remember th;t success depends fully as 
iiuicli upon the mannei- in which tiiey conipouiul a dish as in the accurate 
measuiement ot llu' ingreiiients composing it, many a signal failure would be 
turned to success. 

If they wouki always remember to measure solids anil liquids in exactly 
the same way, success would be tar more certain. No cake recipe is followed 
when you heap the cups or have them level full ot sugar and flour, and the 
milk half an inch below the top. 

If your family is small do not make a whole layer cake of one kind. 
Either divide the recipe antl bake but two layers, or bake the full amount and 
make two kinds of flllilig and divide the layers across the centre before aild- 
ing the filling. 

If you rub soft, not melted, lard over bread sponge after it is mixed in a 
mass, ond also on theloavesf it will improve the bread and prevent the crusts 
being hard. 

If vou once use a small brush lor cleaning vegetables you will nevei do 
witliout one. They cost only five cents, and it always dried by placing the 
bristles down the\' will last tor months. 

If vou have never trieil it. you will be surprised to find how much more 
convenient a twenty-four inch sipiaie piece of domestic gingham or other 
heavv cloth is than a clumsy hokler around the k'tchen range. 

If you hem them neatl\'. there will be little temptation for careless servants 
to use dish towels abiiut the stove. 

In one lives in or near a large town a deciiled saving can be effected by 
purchasing famih' supplies in large t|uantities. .\ot only is this true of edibles, 
iiut of cotton cloth, hose, haiulkerchiels, collars cuffs, shirts, pins, needles, etc. 

If you cannot buy haril soap by the box, do it by the dozen cakes ; then 
remove the wrappers anil jilace it edgewise on a shelf where the air can 
circulate freely around and liry it. 

It vou liHve nevi'r tried it, vou will be surprised at the amount of kitchen 
work you can do expeditiously and well sitting down. .An easy chair and a 
high stool should be fouiul in every kitchen. 

If wise vou will have a paperholder on the wall with some interesting 
papers and magazines it) it. C>ild minutes come into the busiest lives occasion- 
ally, l^se them to get out of vour own little world of carking cares and into 
sympathy with mankind.— A'((//ifr(/(e IJ. Jofiiison, in Fttrin (tiid Home. 

DAINTY TABLE LINEN. 

One of the most important essentials to an attractive, well-set table is 
dainty linen, immaculate in cleanliness and snow white. Colored bordered 
cloths cannot eipial the perfect lieauty of pure white ones. If decorated ware 
is used, this applies still more forcibly, as a mixture of many colors is not in 
good taste. Nothing excuses much soiled table linen. Cleanliness is the first 
attribute of beauty in everything, but especially in table matters. 



) 



\ 



The burrow, STEWART & MII,NE Co. Limited, Hamii^ton 37 



Very coarse linen is not desirable for look.s, nor is it a necessity so far as 
durability is concerned. Fine bleaclied damask, and also the medium grades, 
have wonderful wearing qualities much superior to that ot a poorer kind. 
These are gotten up in ex lisite ilesigns and always give an air of elegance 
to the board, even though ne dishes he plain white. .Some of these elTective 
patterns are squares or cubes for the centre of the cloth, with floral borders. 
If flowers are preferred for the body of the cloth, great sprawling blossoms 
should not be selected, but rather tiny sprays, buds or very small blooms, 
leaving water-lilies, tern leaves, and other large growths to be carried out in 
the wide borders. 

Care must be taken in the laundering of hue table cloths. After thorough 
washing, thay should be well dampened and ironed with nu)derately hot irons 
until dry. This brings out the design anil makes the finish shine smooth as 
satin. A very thin starch improves any cloth when the hrst newness is worn 
off. A starched cloth keeps clean longer than one that is not, and looks better. 

With fresh linen as a foundation, no housewife need be apprehensive 
about the appearance of her table, if her dishes, however plain, are deliciously 
clean and not cracked, chipped or broken. Where there are little children in 
the family, it is economy to provide them with generous trays and extra 
cloths to protect the cloth proper from stains. 

Gold and white linen luncheon cloths are handy things to have among the 
table supplies to use in the fruit season, or if a lunch is served at noon instead 
of dinner. These make admirable breakfast cloths if coffee is useil. There 
is nothing common-looking about them, as the combination of gold and white 
is a highly artistic one, soft and extremely [ileasing to the eye, ami while not 
so closely woven in the meshes as hne white ones, the looser texture does not 
look coarse, and stains come out easier. — Golden Rod. 

JUST THE DIFFERENCE 

It is surprising how dillerently two cooks will use the same receipe, even 
in the simple act of baking a tin of apples. One will put them in a shallow 
tin and set them in a very hot oven, causing the skin to burst and the inside to 
run out, resulting in anything but a tempting dish. .Another will take the 
same apples, and alter having removed the stem and blossom with a pointed 
knife, put them in a deep tin with a little water, half a cuj) of sugar, let them 
■ bake slowly, turn them carefully when half done, and when thoroughly cooked 
take them up on a plate, turning each apple oottom side up ; result, a dish 
both palatable and sightly. So with everything pertaining to home work. It 
does not require such a variety on the table if each article is prepared in the 
nicest manner possible. —i'7(7'W (ind Home. 

WHAT CAN YOU USE A LEMON FOR? 

Ever so many iiiings. If you squeeze it into a glass of water and diink it 
every morning, it will keep your stomach in order anil ward off dyspepsia. 
Rub a cut up lemon on yovn- fingers if they are stained from paring fruit or 
potatoes, and the blackness will disappear as if by magic. If you should have 
a black ring on your neck from wearing a tight collar or a feather boa, or 
anything else the dye will come off, try if lemon juice will not remove it. If 
yon have dark hair and it seems to be falling out, rub the scalp with a slice of 
lemon and that will soon stop the trouble. Squeeze a little lemon juice into a 
tumbler of milk, then rub it on your face night and morning and see what it 
will do for your complexion. If an insect or bee sting you, apply a slice of 
lemon to the wound and it will soon take the pain out. Mix an equal quantity 
of glycerine and lemon juice and rub your hands with it before going to bed. 
Put gloves Oil to sleep in. In the morning w.ish you hatuls in warm water, 
and rub them with lemon juice. A week of this treatment will whiten them. 
There is nothing equal to a tumbler of real hot lemonade for the grip. For a 
b.ad headache, a few slices of lemon rubbed on the forehead will soon lessen 
the pain. — Farm and Home, 



I 



38 



JEWKIy STOVES AND RANGKS. 



IN CANNING TIME. 

In canning- fniits.it should be remembered that tlie "keeping" jiro- 
perty lies not in tiie sugar used, as in preserves, hut in having- the jars per- 
fectly airtight. Indeed, in the writers family, pie-plant and apples are often 
put up without any sugar whatever, the sweeting being jidded when needed, 
and do most excellently for pies and tarts throughout the winter. Since, then, 
so mucii depends npon the can, a well-known tried make of glass jars 
should he selected, and when saved from year to year care should be taken 
not to mix the tops or rubber rings, for those that fit one will not always fit 
another. 

rhe process here giver, of cooking in the jars is a great improvement on 
the old method of cannmg and will produce much finer looking Jruit, while the 
amount of sugar rei|uired tor each quart jar has been reduced, by a house- 
wifely writer, to the convenient table given below : 

For strawberries --ten ounces. For peaches— six ounces. 

For raspberries— six ounces. For Hartlett pears— eight ounces. 

For huckleberries— six ounces. For pineapples —eight ounces. 

For cherries— eight ounces. F"or plums— ten ounces. 

For quinces— twelve ounces. For currants— ten ounces. 

For crab-apples— ten ounces. 
Small strawberries seem to do better for canning, but all other berries 
should be large and firm. Cherries aie canned with the pits in, as the pungent 
kerne! adils much to the llavor. Pineapples are peeled, the "eyes" carefully 
picked out, and then shredded with a silver fork or eUe cut into small, square 
dice. When pears are not too larg-e to pass through the neck of the jar they 
are ha.idsomer canned whole with some of the stems left on, but il ol goodly 
size, pare and cut in halves, but tlo not remove the seeds. Peaches are 
usually pared, halved and pitted; but the writer has eaten very delicious 
small ones put up whole, with the stones left in. Quinces must be pared, 
quartered and cored. 

When all is in readiness and the jars tested by filling with water, covering- 
and turning upside down to see that no moisture oozes out, drop the fruit care- 
hiUy into the cans, gently shaking so as to fill the interstices closely. Next find 
the amount of sugar required lor each i|uart jar and use as many times this 
quantity as you have cans of fruit. Melt this in a saucepan over the fire, with 
just enough boiling water to dissolve it, and when slightly cooled divide it 
among the jars, a teaspoonful at a time. If there is iiot sufficient syrup to 
fill each one to the top, add hike warm water up to the brim, and screw or 
"lock "on the covers rather loosely. Now have readv a spacious kettle or 
wash boiler, in the bottom of which has been laid a th'ick soft cloth, and in 
this set the jars ; fill with warm (not hot) water up to within an inch of the top 
ot the cans, and place the whole on the stove to boil. Do not set directly over 
a very hot fire, however, or the jars may crack, and the object is to slowly 
uteum the fruit, After the water bubbles allow it to boil for ten minutes, then 
remove the top of one can and pierce the fruit with a steel fork. If soft, it is 
cooked sufficiently. 

Ten minutes is generally long enough for berries, but pears, apples and 
Quinces take longer, according to their solidity, and therefore the exact time 
must be lett to the judgment of each canner. When sure that the fruit is done 
set the kettle to one side and, wrapping- the hand in a towel, lift out the 
jars ; remove the covers and fill with boiling water until they are overflowing-, 
after which adjust the tops as quickly as possible, screw on securely, and 
mvert to be sure they are perfectly air-tight. Should any juice ooze out after 
the can is cool the only remedy is to turn the contents into a saucepan and 
boil, according to the old-fashioned method; but this will rarely happen if 
direcliuiis are followed minutely. 

Screw tops should always be fastened with a wrench. Keep in a cool, dry 
dark place, and always open canned fruit a few hours before it is to be used, 
as the oxygen in the air restores any flavor it may have lost by being confined 
so long. If a jar does not open easily never ruin it by trying to pry olT the top 



Thk burrow, vSTKWART & MILNE Co. Limited, Hamhton 39 



with a knife. Instead, immerse it, top downward, in water as hot as you can 
be.ir your finger in, after which the cover will generally turn readily. — 
Ainevican AgricuUuriHt. 

HOW TO POP CORN 

The rice corn is by many considered the best variety for popping, and 
while it certainly is an excellent kind, we have recently come across a dark 
blue, almost hl'ick variety, which we think surpasses it. This kind has larger 
ears than the rice, with smooth kernels of good size, and pops out much larger. 
To secure the best results discard the okl-fashioned corn-popper and use a 
deep iron kettle. The fire must be a very hot one, of fine dry wood, b\irned 
to a mass of coals and embers. Have ready the shelled corn, which has been 
freed from chaff by pouring from one pan to another, so that the chaff is blown 
away by the air. Fl;ice the kettle over the fire and put in half a cup of lard 
and about half a teaspoonful of salt. When the lard is melted put in twocups- 
ful ot corn and stir briskly until it begins to pop ; then cover the kettle, shak- 
ing it by the bail to prevent burning the corn. When the popping has some- 
what subsided, remove the cover and stir with a long-handled spoon nntil all 
is popped. Turn quickly into a pan, as there is danger of scorching if left in 
the kettle. This tjuantily should make at least a heaping milk pan full after 
it is popped. 

To make popcorn balls, boil two cups of the best molasses until it hardens 
in water ; add a pinch of soda, stir well and pour over the popcorn, mixing it 
evenly with a large spoon. When cool enough to handle, press into balls. 
The balls may be made by using sugar instead of molasses, boiling it with a 
little water until it hardens in water. Flavor and use the same as the 
molasses.— £'/ia Rockicood in American Agrimlturist. 

HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIES 

When pillowslips begin to show signs of wear, rip open the end seam, and 
fold so that the side seam will come in the centre of the pillow. Sew up the 
end again, and your pillowslip will wear as long again, as the wear is now 
upon that part that has had but little wear heretofore. 

Watch the tablecloths, and at the first thin place making its appearance, 
darn it carefully with the ravellings, saved for that purpose when the table- 
cloth was made. In this way it will look much better than if neglected until a 
hole is worn through, when it must be patched. 

Make carving-cloths from red-and-white checked linen towelling, fringe 
all around and place over the tablecloth at the carver's place ; also one 
opposite where tlie mistress sits. They help to save the wear of the cloth at 
Iho edge of the table. Three-quarters of a yard is none too long. This towel- 
ling also makes good every-day napkins, cut in squares and hemmed. 

Mflke school napkins, for the children to take with their dinner, from 
bleached cotton cut in squares and fringed, then feather-stitch with red (ravel- 
lings from red tabling will do), and work an initial or the name in the centre. 
They are ornamental as well as useful. — American Agriculturist, 

FLAVORING CANNED PEARS. 

Pears that, after canning, prove to be tasteless, can be made delicious by 
heating and adding pineapple in the porportion of one can of pineapple to 
three of pears. Cut the slitfles of apple quite small, and if the pears are in 
halves, divide them again. Heat all together, taking care not to let them 
cook so that they lose their shape. When putting up pears it is very little 
trouble to add pineapple to a few cans, and the result is excellent, since the 
pear beeomes perfectly flavored with pineapple and yet it is far more easily 
digested. — Honiemaker. 

TO REMOVE STAINS FROM TABLECLOTHS. 

Dip the stained parts in water to which has been added a tablespoonful 
of chloride of lime to each quart of water. If the stains are deep, let it soak 
fifteen or twenty minutes, then hang up, without wringing, to dry in the sun. 



40 TmR m-RROW, STEWART .Si MILNK Co. Limitkd, IIamii/ion. 



A USEFUL ADJUNCT TO THE KITCHEN IS A 




We arc makers of tlie "Imperial Standard" Scales, 
adapted to suit all conditions for accurate weiji^hing of capacities 
varying from i Ih. by drachms to Railway Track Scales of 
loo tons. 




Above style weighs from 
one ounce to lo lbs on the beam. 

NO WICIC.HTS. 



This style weighs anything from 

'4 o/.. to 1 7 ll)s. The most reliable 

Scale in the market. 




This Family Scale will weigh 
up to 240 lbs. 

The best all-round Family 
Scale to be had. 



s, 
es 
of 




from 
aliable 




weigh 



^amily 








The 

Burro^v, 
Stei^art 

(EX Milne 

Company 



l,imiteti 



HAMILTON 
CANADA 






nvi^^spntsi 



HAMILICN 



# 



016855555 



