CIHM 
Microfiche 
Series 
(Monographs) 



ICMH 

Collection de 
microfiches 
(monographies) 




Canadian Institute for Historical Microreproductions / Institut canadien de microreproductions historiques 






D 



This ii 
Ce do 



Technical and Bibliographic Notes / Notes techniques et bibliographiques 



The Institute has attempted to obtain the best original 
copy available for filming. Features of this copy which 
may be bibliographically unique, which may alter any of 
the images in the reproduction, or which may 
significantly change the usual method of filming are 
checked below. 



Coloured covers / 
Couverture de couleur 



I I Covers damaged / 



Couverture endommagee 



□ Covers restored and/or laminated / 
Couverture restauree et/ou pelliculee 

I I Cover title missing / Le titre de couverture manque 

I I Coloured maps / Cartes geographiques en couleur 

□ Coloured ink (i.e. other than blue or black) / 
Encre de couleur (i.e. autre que bleue ou noire) 

Coloured plates and/or illustrations / 
Planches et/ou illustrations en couleur 

Bound with other material / 
Relie avec d'autres documents 

Only edition available / 
Seule edition disponible 

Tight binding may cause shadows or distortion along 
interior margin / La reliure serree peut causer de 
I'ombre ou de !a distorsion le long de la marge 
interieure. 

Blank leaves added during restorations may appear 
within the text. Whenever possible, these have been 
omitted from filming / Use peut que certaines pages 
blanches ajoutees lors d'une restauration 
apparaissent dans le texte, mais, lorsque cela etait 
possible, ces pages n'ont pas ete filmees. 

Additional comments / 
Commentaires supplementaires: 



n 
n 



n 



L'Institut a microfilm^ le meilleur exemplaire qu'il lui a 
et6 possible de se procurer. Les details de cet exem- 
plaire qui sont peut-etre uniques du point de vue bibli- 
ographique, qui peuvent modifier une image reproduite, 
ou qui peuvent exiger une modification dans la m6tho- 
de normale de filmage sont indiqu6s ci-dessous. 



n 

D 
D 



Coloured pages / Pages de couleur 

Pages damaged / Pages endommag6es 

Pages restored and/or laminated / 
Pages restaureos et/ou pelliculees 



Q Pages discoloured, stained or foxed / 
Pages decolorees, tachetees ou piqu6es 

I I Pages detached / Pages detachees 

\\/\ Showthrough / Transparence 

Quality of print varies / 
Qualite inegale de I'impression 

Includes supplementary material / 
Comprend du materiel supplementaire 

Pages wholly or partially obscured by errata slips, 
tissues, etc., have been refilmed to ensure the best 
possible image / Les pages totalement ou 
partiellement obscurcies par un feuillet d'errata, une 
pelure, etc., ont e\6 filmees a nouveau de fagon a 
obtenir la meilleure image possible. 

Opposing pages with varying colouration or 
discolourations are filmed twice to ensure the best 
possible image / Les pages s'opposant ayant des 
colorations variables ou des decolorations sont 
filmees deux fois afin d'obtenir la meilleure image 
possible. 



n 



D 



D 



f 



This item is filmed at the reduction ratio checked below / 

Ce document est filme au taux de reduction indique ci-dessous. 



10x 



14x 



18x 



12x 



16x 



20x 



22x 



T 



26x 



30x 



24x 



28x 



32x 



The copy filmed here has been reproduced thanks 
to the generosity of: 

Department of Rare Books 
and Special Collections, 
HcGill University, Montreal 

The images appearing here are the best quality 
possible considering the condition and legibility 
of the original copy and in keeping with the 
filming contract specifications. 



L'exemplaire filmd fut reproduit grace it la 
Q^nirosni de: 

Department of Rare Books 
and Special Collections, 
HcGill University, Hontreal 

Les images suivantes ont 6ti reproduites avec la 
plus grand soin. compte tenu de la condition at 
de la neneti de l'exemplaire filmi, et en 
conformity avec les conditions du contrat de 
filmage. 



Original copies in printed paper covers are filmed 
beginning with the front cover and ending on 
the last page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, or the back cover when appropriate. Ail 
other original copies are filmed beginning on the 
first page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, and ending on the last page with a printed 
or illustrated impression. 



Les exemplaires originaux dont la couvertura en 
papier est imprimis sont film*s en commencant 
par le premier plat et en terminant soit par la 
derniire page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration, soit par le second 
pla:, selon le cas. Tous les autres exemplaires 
originaux sont filmis en commenpant par la 
premiere page qui compt'rte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration et en terminant par 
la derniire page qui comporte une telle 
empreinte. 



The last recorded frame on each microfiche 
shall contain the symbol — ^ (meaning "CON- 
TINUED"), or the symbol V (meaning "END"), 
whichever applies. 



Un des symboles suivants apparaltra sur la 
derniire image de cheque microfiche, selon le 
cas: le symbole — ^signifie "A SUIVRE", le 
Aymbole V signifie "FIN". 



Maps, plates, charts, etc., may be filmed at 
different reduction ratios. Those too large to be 
entirely included in one exposure are filmed 
beginning in the upper left hand corner, left to 
right and top to bottom, as many frames as 
required. The following diagrams illustrate the 
method: 



Les cartes, planches, tableaux, etc., peuvent etre 
film6s A des taux de reduction diff^rents. 
Lorsque le document est trop grand pour etre 
reproduit en un seul cliche, il est filmi d partir 
de Tangle supirieur gauche, de gauche ^ droite, 
et de haut en bas, en prenant le nombre 
d'images nicessaire. Les diagrammes suivants 
illustrent la mithode. 



1 


2 


3 




1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 



MICROCOPY RESOLUTION TEST CHART 

ANSI ur.d ISO TEST CHART No 2 



1.0 



I.I 



113.2 



in III 2 " 



[|Z5 
12.2 

2.0 
1.8 



1.25 



1.4 



1.6 



J -APPLIED IfvVIGE Inc 



'er, New ^orl^ U60y 

-82 - 0300 - PMone 



^ 




TRADE M^S-RK OF 
QUALITY 



*^ 







^ 



< 



i 







d 



S 

Cook Book 

Select Recipes of the world's best authorities on 

cooking and a list of valuable premiums 

given away Free to the users of 
SWEETHEAR 1 BRAND GuODS^^ 



.^sk pour 
iwcef 

for cm 

hveethean 



c=2 en cm cm en 

Spices 

Coffees 

Mustards 
Jelly Powders 

Baking Powder 
Flavoring Extracts 
Etc. Etc. Etc. 



^y?// up-to-date 

Grocery 

-'■ handle 

eethec 
Brand 



Compliments of 



LONDON 






I 1 LliVliiKU C=) 

Advertiser Joh., Lo'-.aon, Ontario 



e Mills 



oNtAkiu 



'.* 



lOREWOKD 

t 

WE PRESENT YOU WITH THIS 

Premium List 

and Catalogue 



I llustrating 



and XL I rano 



OF 



Coffees, Spices, Baking Powders, Jelly 

Powders, Mustards. Flavoring 

Extracts, Etc. Etc. 

contains rocipe.=(, many 
of which aro now. They are all very simple, and \vhc>n used with 
"Swcciheart iU'and Goods" anyone can prepare food 

Every package or bottle of Sweetheart or IXL goods sold for 
10c or upwards contains one to three coupons. These coupons 
may be excanged at any time for a valuable premium listed 
lierein. 

Always ask ^-our grocer for Sweetheart or IXL P>rand. 

and send them to us, giving number of premium 
selected, and we will immediately forward same. renviun* 

MILLIONS WASTED 
Millions of dollars are wasted annually 'n advertising^ on 
burns, fences, poles and signl)oards. '-—' •■■" r,-, 

Just think, your good money goes to help pay for this kind of 
advertising. 

Every Dollar we spend in advertising is Returned To Ou? 
We believe in direct advertising, and . \\ by 

spending our money ruicisa.siisM lugji i.rado I'remiums in large 
Quantities, a.. \i. Giving Away Absolutely Fre* in ex- 

change for coupons. 

Respectfully Submitted, 

IXL Spice & Coffee Mills 



LundOn 



cr>0)c:n 



LIMITED 



I=2<>C=I 



ONTARIO 






\ 



^ 



I 



-~1 



j 



J 




Why The Name 

IXL Spice & Coffee Mills Ltd.? 



IJi'cuuse it implies that WK EXCI'^L in the 
manufactnrinK of favorite l)i-aii<ls of goods called 
SWEETHEART aid IXL. 

lak(;e importers 

We import direct in lar^" <iiiantities. Our 
material.^ are can^'ully seleeted from the world's 
finest plantations. 

OUR EQITI'MENT 

Our factory is equipjjed with the VERY LAT- 
EST and MOST UP-TO-DATE ^LVCHINERY on 
the American ("nntinent. Our modern and .-^cien- 
tiiic method of milling' enables us to retain all tlie 
aroma and essential oils whicli are so nece.ssary 
to ensure QUALITY. 

C L E A N L I N E S S 

Our factory is located in a boautiful resi- 
d-^ntial section away from smoke, dust and dirt. 
Perfect cleanlines.s i.s maintained tlirouj?Iiout the 
entire factory. Strictly first-class help is em- 
ployed in each department. 

OUR TRADE MARK MEANS QUALITY 
GUARANTEED 

Every package fully gur ) teed to give per- 
fect .satisfaction when used ao- ording to direc- 
tion.s, or money refunded. 

If your grocer does not stock our goods, 
plea.se send name and address of grocer and we 
will have our traveller call at once. 



Advertiser Job, London. Ont. 




M' 



V.K MI 1,1, 



.I.MITKI), I.ON'DON', ONT. 





C oz 10c — 1 coupoa 

!2 OK 150—2 coupofH 

16 oz 20c— 3 couponi 

eWF-rniEAUT HHANF) n.MvING powdee 
. — iniKK AND WilOLrsOME 

* ' • ' 1 ' f ciirofnl study and 

enptrn.ien; to put on 

th* iiiarket o. , > ..i .; ,., .„ i It «;int — A 

Good, Pure, Sure and Ileallhfiil linking i'ow- 
4fT. A inont satisfactory aruole, which wc &s- 
• uie y-iu, has bpcn put to a caroful test and 
prcuiicfs a dt'liRhtfully Hliile iu, i lis'n* 1»m 
ruJt, cake, etc. We are positive of i:ood rcf iilu 
If duTCtioiis are followed out. A few IriaU 
'<▼:'' ;.! f ils superiority. 

v.- iiij^iii., itv^wiHicr.d liaving oven hot when 
Ha'i.in)T, ready to receive cakes or buns a^ soon 
»«'■., a: :• ' thoroughly. 



M 



MIT BRAND EXTRACTS. 

r.alur ripe fruit. Oar extract* 



have iJ.al flavor, purily and Kirenjfth which 
will please you. Use it for flavoring cakes, 
pastry and candy. 



A!! 



! a \'r\T*c! - 



-\'<, 



raspb.-ny, ratfia, pineapple, oranjfe, cherry, 
•Imoiid, wiiitcrproen, maple, rose, pistachio, 
ginger, cinnamon, etc. 




10* — 1 eoupoK 10c — 1 «o«i 




iUo — 1 coupon 



WE AUK THK ON'l.Y FIRM IN CAN.\D.\ WHO SPEND OUR ADVKRTlSi N<; MONKV WITH rUK < IINSIMER 



I\l, SI'K i; AM) roKtKfc Mtl.KS, l.lMllhD. I.O.NDON. oN I 












kv. 


' 






I 



l.i. 




IXLCOFFfEaSPiCEHiaSCO. 

LONDON. CNF '•"'"'" 



aWEETHEAFlT MANNA TAPIOCA 

Eanily prnpured ami digested, nutritioug *nd 
non-irritatjnif, (in ex(ellent food for bubioa 
Mid invalids. Our Maniia Tapioca is a de- 
uciotsa and (jelf-natisfying dessert. 

Takea but a few minutes to make and is 
<i>ed larRcly in the summer by camperg and 
picnickers. 



SWEETIIKART IJUAND JELLT. 

Choicest nialprialv, of the best manufactfli*- 
ers, finp.'.t fruit flavors, and perfect art ia 
makinir. - • j, lly a favorite with alL 

E-i-^il; , it niake.'5 a delirious dee- 

sert. Flavor.*?, orange, lemon, vanilla, pine- 
apple, strawberry, raspberry, grapefruit, 
cherry, red currant, pistaciiio, etc. 

Directions for making-. 



Select Recipes 



ALWAV3 USE SWKEXnEAUT BKAND BAK 
Directions for Making Attractive Combina- 
tions of Sweetheart Jellie;> — To make attrac- 
tive combinations of Sweetheart Jellies for 
afternoon teas, s'- 'icr parties or banquets, 
make one jelly, . 'r cherry, raspberry or 
ttrawberry, and ^-^ ' ^"••ip'^rly mixed accord- 
ing to direction K-ven, pour into a 
mould, making ii ^ .,■ ';.. full, I'ut away in 
a cold place to set. When it has set, prepare 
another jelly, either lemon, orange or pineap- 
ple, after mining thoroughly with boiling 
water as before, allow it to cool until it is less 

-•'ei:t luT.--r: -x: lii. i ::•_■■.: j,;:;:." :rno mc rTiOUld OH 

top of the jelly which has become set and put 
•■way the mould again in a cold place to allow 
'the iecond jelly it contains to set. When 
tamed out of the mould the red jelly will be on 
»op and the light one underneath. This method 

\VK mm; t; 



- i-i.c mould mor« 



ING POWr>K«. K\T['\fTS 

ri;akc.s tl ■■ 

noticcablij a..-, .i. ,..,^, 

Emergency Hiscuit— Two cups flour, 'i tea- 
.•5poon salt, 1 iea.5poon baking powder; 



)!p:^pijon bitter. Mix 



mix and .sift; rub J tai 

to a thick I ■ ■ it.h iniik.' ('mp \jy .jmall 

.siioonfuls OS. ., ■ ,i pan-:, and bake in quick 

ovon. 

Egg Bi.-xuit— Mix and sift well together 1 
pint hour, Va tca.spoon .'alt, 1 tea.spoon sugar, 
i tea.spoon baking powder. Heat 1 egg, add V4 
cup milk, stir iivto dry nuxiuie, adding mora 
milk if nccf?.-sary to nii.\- to soft dou;fn. Turn 
out Oil board, knead for a monien*, cut into 
Ci-r'n-, place 1 inch apart on grea.sed pan*. 
Bru,ii with little beaten egg, and bake in very 
hot oven. 



n-;i,V VIVW IN CNWDX WHO S!'i:\t> ()' 



r;t r-.iiz con.si-mkr 



il I' 



II, Mil. IS, MMITKIi. I.DNDON, ONT. 



A I \N 






Continia'd. 

I ;■ I. fllMDKK, 



i urn Slurth t'nke- One cup suj^ar, 



buiur. 'a 'wp milk, 'ii cup c( 



!''Uiii|.;li (loijf 
jps, 1 lioapi 
itot iaat huii 
Small l.iiwr 

bultir, 'J. 



cup 

il, I cup 
Hour, I':j U-tt^^pooriH bukiii»{ ii ifl lluur 

ami i-urti :-larcli t<i^'('lln;r ii or .. nun . Wh:' •■ 
of '•'• •'^rtJ'i hcaicii stiir. l-'lavurinn. ii-) 

1 c'4|> tiiilk, .1 «"U|).s flour, 

DiMiuliiuits ( I tain I- cup bultt ; wiili one 
cup ^uKa^, 1 cup nolk, 2 ev?j,'j whipjicd liKl't, 
I ti'ii |u>')ii ciu'h of iiutimj;, iirid cinuaifion. 
' .• a soft ilouKh, ubow: '„' 
p'lon bukiiijf pnvvikT. I ■ 
I,, iaiiully at lirht before frying;. 
lake One cup .su;jar. ' ; cup 
<■..-;. 'u cup cf tiiiik, ' 
bakiuR p '-.MiiT in 2 cups (Imir. 

Sandwich Hi.sfuU— Sift toKelher 1 pint flour, 
'( teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon liakinir powder, 
ub in 1 liea(iin(j labitspKon liutlcr. Alix to a 
Koft (iouKh with milk. Uoil out •'» inch thick. 
Cut into rounds. On 'ii of tins round.s spread 
a litllt! .-oft hutlcr, add a thick layer of lincly 
choppt'd an<l scasuMed cuhl meat; cover with 
ren'iiiiunij romui-; atui pre.s.s t()^;»lher. Hru.^h 
top't with milk, piace 1 inch apart on >rrea,sed 
pan.s, and balu' in hot oven. 

F.nulish Muflins Oni. i|iKiit lliii. - t-a- 
iipoon sutrar; 1 teaspoon .«ail, 'J lar^'o toa.spoons 
bnkinp powdor. 1 't pints milk. Sift t ■mother 
flo!ir, .su^^ar, .-nit and powder, add milk, and 
mix inio smooth iiatter trifle stilfcr than for 
griddle cakes. Have t,'riddle healed regularly 
all over, ^crca-e il. and lay on muflin-rinKs; 
half (ill them, and when li.^en well up to top 
of rinjrs, turn over ^'ently with cak" turner. 
Thev siiould not h,> '.,;, iM'own— ju.st a buff 
color. When al; 11 each open in 

half, t>)ast deli.;i ,. ■ r Well, serve on 

folded naiikin, piled h.^h and very hot. 

(tatnieal !Mi;th;^ "■ cip oalmeui, I'i 
pint !l ! '-,1 ', '-! teaspoons hakinp: 

pow.'lrr, 1 uii'i.'-p'ii.'i i.,i- i. 'J cftrs, 1 pint mi!!: 
Sift toji;ethcr oatmeal, tloiir, :-;ill, and jioWihT; 
rub in hud cold, adil beaten vKi^s and milk; 
mix .'nu)ollily into batter rather thiiuier than 
cup cake; fill mufrin-pans -i full; bake in (.rood 
hot oven ITi mintues. 

Graham .Muflins-One quart Graliam flour, 1 
table !"""' l,i-.,\vi, v.ij/ar, 1 t.;! I'lion --alt. '2 
tea.-; o.der, 1 ■ milk. 

Sift ...:..■ . .,, am lloiii-, , .,.: 1.: and 

powder; add be'iten e^rg and milk; niix into 
batter like pound cake; muffin-pans, well 
greased. ■ ; full; bake in hot oven L") minute;^. 

Weddine Cake ' 'V lipht. 1 lb. 



butler. Ciiadual!:, . : . 
well tojrelher. Separaie 



.ir, and 



of 12 CRRS 



at 11 
he y^dks and whites 
f!f ynn can ha\e two a.-sistant.s 
at the work. ',u-;ten matters if one boats 

the yolks ti'; and 1 mnn colored, while 

the other whips the whi'' froth. It will 

do ill) harm if (]■■■■'..- ■' ;:;T;r cr;;- e:i;; 

tinucs l!>e !^t<'a(l:. Mf Iniltcr and 

eupar). To liii,. .. , . .:..-, • -. of the cgi!:^ 



r.XTKAlTg AND BPirni 



all pice and maee, 



ti r«- 

buttor, 2 
tea.Hpyon 



to^cether 1 
heapink; tea- 



lett«pooM dovBH, ^ cup 

ol b'rundy and 1! tablespoons lemon juice, .} Ib.^. 

raiMii.-f, seeded, ar.d cut in iiaU'cs, 1 lb. curranu, 

I lb. citrofi cut very lino, I lb. lincly chopped 

Dred^'e the raisin.s, ^^,'8 and curranU 

■ i!h Hour, and a. Id l<i the niixture. Uutler and 

i ur il lurtje round pun. I'ut in a layer of tha 

ruure. Hred^e the citnm with flour, and 

ly carefully over tl 

iiuiindcr of mixture. 

White Wedding Cake One cup 

•■up.i ^u^;ar, 1 cu|) milk, I! cup.s flour, 

bakinjf powder, whites of 8 e^KH, I lb. citron 

heed thin, 1 lb. aln.onds lilanched and chop- 
id line, 1 medium sized fresh cocounut grated, 
I wine(.^luss white wine. Cream butter and 
em'.H IhorouKJily to>,'e!her. Add the milii, and 

'ukin^' powder and Hour .sifted to^felher threa 
limes. Stir Well together. Add the fruilsi and 
nuts, slirriiiK only enough to mix. I.a.st of all 
add the whites of eKK'.-i beaten stiff un ' tha 
wine. Fold in litjhtly and bake in a moderate 
uven. When cold, ice heavily with an icing 
made of confeetioner.s' sugar and white of egg. 

.Marble Cake ( Light) -One cup white sugar, 
'u cup butter, '.J milk, 2 cups (lour with 2 
tea.spoonij baking powder. White.-; of 3 eggs. 

Ifousehold Hrtad- Sift twice 
ijiiart of (lour, I teasiioon salt, 2 
spoons baking powder. Make a well in tha 
center; add gradually siiiruient cold liquid — 
scaler, milk or ecjual (piantilies of each—to 
il stiff latter or .-:oft dough; this will 
.■iboiit I pint of liijuid. 'I'urn at one* 
into a rreased loaf-rian, smooth the top with a 
knife dipiped in imdled butter, and bake im- 
mediately in a moderate oven about 1 hour. 
When done lake from the pan, moisten with 
the hand dipped in cold water, wrap in bread- 
,-!.,•;, nil ,,,!.l, 

liraham Infermented Bread — I'a pint« 
<;raham flour, 'a pint flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 

1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoens baking powder, 
I'l piiit-; milk, or e(|ual parts milk and water. 

f; ' ' '■:. r (Iraham flour, flour, sugar, .salt, 

ivr, add the milk, or milk and water; 

idly into soft dough, which put into 

. . ,1 . ,1 lin. Bake in rather hot .jven about 40 

iiiiimtes. Protect loaf with paper flrst IB 

minutes. 

!{()ston Hrown I?re:;d~f)ne 
'2 hcapihir cups rye ni(al, 1 t 
t''asp('iin .-^'ida, 1 tiapo'-'U 1>; 
cup molasses. Mix dry incriedienls; add mo- 
lasses and 1 pint warm water; beat smooth. 
Pour at once into greased mold with cover, 
-'•am or boil 3 hours. Uncover, set in oven 19 

HoMon liriiwn Bread, 2— Two cups yellow 
Indian com meal. 1 cup rye meal, 1 cup flour. 

2 cups milk, 1 cup molasses, 'i teaspoon salt, 

3 teaspoons baking powder. Mix well together 
pour into greased brown-bread mold, steam 4 
KfUrs. Drv off 10 minute? in m.oderatft oven. 

Half pint oatmeal, 1^ 
teaspoon of salt, 3 tea- 



mix to 

ri'(,uire 



cup corn meal, 
'a-;vi')n salt, '.•i 
!;iiig powder, 1 



Oatmeal Pri 

pints flour. 



then the whites. Add 1 lb. of flour, saving 'i of spoon.s baking powder, *4 pint of milk. 



cup to dredge the fruit 
spoons I'innamon, ^'i 



Now put in 2 tea- Boil oatmeal 



in 



I'i pints salted watez 



emnamon, 
WE ARK Tin: |'^i ^ 



teaspoon each nutmeg, 

1 1\ (• \N \11\ W HO S!'I-: 



1 hour; add milk; set aside until cold. Then 

Ni> ori! Ai)Vi:i;ris!N.: monkv with itu-; ( on-^iwikk 



WK 



IXI, SPICE ANIi COFFEE MILLS., LIMITED., LONDON, ONT. 



HKCII'K.S -Continut'd. 



AI.WAYM I HR HnKKTIIKAUT UKAMi BAkl.Nt; 



■tiMOr.K, KXTKACTS A.ND trUM 



pl»ci< 111 bawl, hift lo;;t'tliiT flour, suit, und niuml cuIUt ulout 2'a inchi-.i in iliainottr; lay 



6ow(liT, Uiid udil. .Mix .siiinotlily utul dtftlv 
ake in );roaNiHl tin iilioiit l.» nuiiuti , ( 
ii'Ctt!c| witti papur 21) niitiuU's. 

I'i»tai«» .MiilliiiN Ui)il ami nia.sh .'J polatoes; 
add 1 ti'a.'pixiii Nult, 1 teaspoon butter; bout 



',51 I'up milk, (lour U> 
Imtlfr; und 1 'fU-'^poon Itakirit 



linkiriir 



akiii^ powder, 1 talilo.spoon Imtter 
)iiil milk. Sift to^jether flour, cn'-n 



w«il. Add 2 bt'aton t'i.'K«, 

make a drop 

puwdtT. liiiki' oti hot jjrt'UMd irriddif in 

ritiiT 

(•raham Koll-. Ono pint <;ialiain ll.>ur, 1 
pint wlicat flour, 1 touspoon K.alt, 2 It-Hspooii 
bttkiii^; powdt'r, 1 lalili'spoon l>ullfr or lar 1, -U 
pint milk. Sift tojfi'Hier Graham flour, flour, 
salt, and powder; rub in tiie shorteninR; add 
milk, and mix tho wliilc into smooth doujjh 
that can bo handled — not too .soft; flour board, 
turn it out, and form into rolls shape and s;ixe 
of larKe firiKt-r.^. Lay thorn on bal.inK-sheet 
•0 that ihcy will not touch. Wa.sh their sur- 
face with soft bru.sh dippod in milk to plazc 
them. Hake in hot ovcn from 10 to 12 minutes. 

BrvakfaMt KoIIh- 1 '») pint.^ flour, \a pint 
Indian forn meal (wliile), 1 teaspoon .'alt, '' 
tea.ipooiiii bakii 
or lard, \ pi 

meal. Knit, and powder; rub in shortening;; u 1 
the inilk, mix .'smoothly into rather firmer 
doujfh than usual. Flour the board, turn out 
»ha doutrh, give it 1 or 2 turns to complete its 
gmoothne.s3. Divide it, thus preiiared, into 
oiercs .size of an epR; a^ain divide these in 
half, wfiich roll out under the hanii until they 
are long and half tho size of one's little finger. 
Lay on greased baking tin so that they do not 
touch, wash them over with milk. Bako in 
hot oven 7 or 8 minutes. 

(Irnhnm Lunrh Hread-l's pints Graham 
flour, ^ pint flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tea 
spoon 

pint milk. Sift together Graham flour, flour, 
iugar, salt and jjowder; add the milk; mix 
into .smooth dough that can be easily handled. 
Flour tho boar(i, turn out dough; give it a 
quick, vigorcu.i additional kneading to com- 
plete its smoothness; then divide into four 
large pieces, which form into long loaves, lay 
them just touching in a square shallow cake 
pan, wash them over with milk. Bake in 
rather hot oven HO minutes. When ve r oving 
from oven rub them over with a liltlt butter 
on a clean piece of linen. 

Rrown Bread —Mix well together 1 quart 
Graham flour, 1 pint Indian corn meal, 2 scant 
teaspoons salt, 2 scant teaspoons baking pow- 
der. Dissolve 1 scant teaspoon soda in 1 
tea.'ipoon boiling water; mix with 1 cup mo- 
lasses. To the dry ingredients add 1 quart 
cold water, then the molasses Beat 1 minute, 
pour into 2 wcll-groased mold.s, steam or boil 
4 !ioi;vc. Dry off on pan in moderate oven 10 
minutes. 

Lunch Rolls — One quart flour, 1 teaspoon 
Bait, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 tablespoon 
butter or l.ird. 1 nint mi!!-:. Sift t. 
salt, and powder, rub in 
milk, 



them on grea.sed bukiin; tin, JUlU touclainf (in 
vv.s uv.'iily), wa.sh over with milk, buka ia 
urly hot oven 2."> minutes. Wa.sh Iht.a ovtr 
uguin with milk when taken from oven. 

TwiHt Ui.iU — Prepare diiinjh u.s for lunch 
roll.;. i:ul in pieces hizc of egg. KoU t»ach 
with hands into plain roll tapering at ciulj 
and f» inche.H long. Lay .'i to^'ether; begin in 
niiildle and braid to end; turn over and braid 
• ppo.-ite end. .Mold and twist all the pucea of 
dough in the name way. Lay well upart on 
flat, greased puns. Brush with milk, bak« 
golden brown in very hot oven 

.Nut BiHcuit- Sift together 2 cup.s fl .ur, % 
tea->po(Ui .^alt, 1 heaping teaspoon baking 
powder. Kub in 1 lu-uiing tai.le.spoon butter, 
add 1 cup ground or very finely chopped iiuta 
- Knglish walnuts, hickory nut.s, or ulmond.s — 
and 2 tablespoons sugar; mix to a tfoft dough 
with milk. Mold with the hands into Hmall 
bulls, place well apart on greas.'d pans, brush 
encii with milk, put u pinch of chopped nuti 
on top. and bake in hot oven. 

Gingerbread— Cream Vs cup butter and lard 
mixed, with 1 cu|) sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 
cup .sour milk, 1 teaspoon .>oda (li.-.solved in a 
little boiling water, 2 tea.-poons each of cinna- 
mon and ginger, 1 teaspoon each of cloves and 
milmog; .'{ cup.s flour. Not too hot an oven. 

Sweet .Muflin.s — One cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 
tablespoon melted butter, 1 pint sweet milk, 8 
ciip.s flour, 2 teaspoons baking powiier, 1 tea- 
spoon salt. Mix and sift dry ingre<iients; add 
milk and beaten egg and butter. Beat hard, 
bake in greased iiuftin pans. 

Kagle Gake^— (Jne cup brown sugar, >^ cup 
butter, 1 cup sour milk, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon each 



alt, '2 teaspoon.s baking' powder, a; "f ^"<la and cinnainon, U teaspoon cloves. 



teaspoon nutmeg, 1 cup raisins, 2 cup.s flour. 
Gingerbread — Three cups molasse.-i, 1 cup 
cream or milk, 1 cup lard or butter melted, 2 
eggs, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons ginger, 6 
cups flour. Rake in a .slow oven. 

Kgg Muflins — One quart flour, 1 tablespoon 
sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 large tablespoon but- 
te , 2 teaspoons baking nowder, S eggs, 1 V4 
pints milk. Sift togther flour, sugar, salt, and 
powdi-r; rub in the butter, add tho beaten eggs 
and milk; mi,; quickly intf) a .smooth batter, a 
little firmer than for griddle cake.=^; '1 fill cold, 
caref.illv grea 1 d muffin pans; bake in hot 
oven l."") "iinutes. 

Pound Cake (Susie's) — One lb. butter, 1 lb. 
.sugar, 1 lb. flour, 10 eggs, beaten separately, 
'2 lb. figs or raisins or almonds. Bake Ihi 
hour;' or so. 

Hot Cross Buns- 
teasfU)on salt, 



,tW*»tVlf»»» flrtt»*» 



-Sift together 1 quart flour, 
1 cup .sugar, I! scant tea- 
spoons baking powder. Rub in M cup butter, 
then add li pound 
spoon nutmeg, 
.'•epded raisins, 



viXi.~, add ', 



I' ci 



cleaned currant,--, H tea- 
'i pound cut citron, 'i pound 
',•; teaspoon allspice. Beat 2 
p milk, and .stir into tiie dry 



the shortening, add mixture, adding enough more milL to mix to 



to a .smooth dough to be easily f; 



handled. Flour the board, turn out dough, give 



rm don?h. Mold into round buns, lay 2 



1 or 2 quick kneadings to give it smoothnc-^s. f^t 



inches apart on greased pans, brush with milk 



Roll out little over '4 inch thick, cut out with 



cro-s on each, sprinkle cut with granulated 



sugar. Bake in hot ovei 



wr. 



mi: ONI V iiRM IN r\\\n.\ wno 



.sriCNn oi'R ADViarrisiNi; vfi.NKY with the co.\.s(;mer 



IXI. SI'ICK AND COFFEE MILLS, LIMITED, LOMXJX, ONT. 




^mm. , 




^p3G^ 




■-^^l 



Jiiu L-onci: 




8^ 

C 
The 
it 
daT 
err 
tt i 



10c — 1 coupon 



5WEFTIIKAKT BUANJ) NUTMEGS art 

;(4Sei*tt;d from the finest growths. P'U in pack- 
ajfoa tj each. 

Our grated nutmeg.<! are absolutely pure. 
Pwt in dredge tins ready for use. Very con- 
»«aient for cook.s. 



SWEETHEART DRAND CREAM TARTAR 

Is guaranteed to be the iincst French cryNtals, 
absolutely pure, made from grapes. A recipe 
will bo found on each package, instructing ho» 
to use our Sweetiieart iSrand Cream Tartat. 
This 13 a very good method where cuHtomort 
like pure cream tartar Itaking powder. 11 
bought in thi.s way It will be found muck 
cheaper than buyinj; other brands of crtiaBB 
tartar baking powder. 



I 

iW' 

din 
rei 




^fc^^.w • •»-v\x « 



r 



^ 



jOOCKHKKKHXKXKX 

; QUARTER POUND 

I Sweetheart 

I PURE GRAPE 




pream Tarta 

% GUAHANTECD TO BE 

I CHEMICALLY PURE 



:J I X L Spice & Coffee 

I Mills, limited 

I LONDON. CANADA \ 



10c — 1 coupon 



WK AKi; mi: os\.\ iiiiM in r\\\(i\ who ,=;i'Kxn on; mukimisini; MnNi;v v.iru riii; 



..-;rMEK 



Wl 



IXL SPK !•: AND COFFP:p: mills, LLMITKI), LONDON. ONT. 



^BTAft. 
ryHtalg, 
I recipt 

Tartat. 

atomort 

ler. II 

fi muck 

cresBB 



SWEETHEART BRAND SUNDRY LINES. 

Cinnamon is the bark of the cinnamon tree. 
The finest, quality is taken from the inside bark 
)f the trf;e. which possesses it of a very fine 
tIaTor. Thi? bark, milled by th« fineat machin- 
ery, in a vast iirprovonient over the old way, 
ta it doi'fl not evaporate the oil ard in thin vf ay, 
th« aromatic odor is retained. 




Paiitry Spice is made from & lelectian of 
aweet epices, used chiefly for fruit cakea, ■wti- 
ding cakes, etc. Thia be found to be of 

rery fine quality, and no^ed for ita frafrancy. 




10c- 



ooiipon 



SWEETHEART BRAND HERBS. 

We are importer.'? and manufacturers tti 
leaf sage, savory, (hyme, marjoram. Our |ioul> 
try dressing i.s a ncleclion of all kindH of horles, 
blended togethtr, which makes a splendid 
dreaaing for poultry, or nu 



makes a splend 
U'.'tts of any kind 



— jc:^— 



r\ 



-TjT 



mwi 



fin. 




^PURtv 



Pastry SPICE 



'XL Spice an<* 






lOc — I coupoa 




:.'! 



!J5 



■ 4 
«.» 

«<« 

4 

it 




SAVOR^ 



TXL spice: AND 

f^_^w-ctrc Ml LL J 
"'n'"JD0N.0NTAR10 



10c — 1 coupon 



■SI met; 



WE MU: llli; ONLY FIRM IN CXNADA WHO .>^I'END OUR ADVERTISING MONEY WITH THE CONSUMER 



IXL SPICE AND COFFEE MILLS., LIMITE D., LONDON, ONT. 




1 



RECIPES— Continued. 

ALWAYS USE 8WKKTHEAUT BRAND BAKING POWDEH, 



EXTKAtTS AND SPICKS 



Butter Cakes — Mix 1 (juart flour, 1 teaspoon 
•alt, 2 Icu.^iiouns bakiii^j powder. Rub in \i 
tablespoorLs butter. Mix to a soft dough with 
milk, roll out '•}* inch thick, cut in rouuil cakes. 
Lay on a moderately hot greased griddle, and 
when pale brown, turn and brown on other 
side. Tear open, butter liberally, and send to 
Ubic. 

Scotch Scones — On* quart flour, 1 tea.spoon 
sugar, '/-J tea.spoon salt, 2 tea.spooti.s baking 
powder, 1 large table.si)oon lard, 2 egg.s, nearly 

1 pint milk. Sift togetlier flour, .sugar, salt and 
powder; rub in lard cold; add beat-en eggs and 
milk; mix into dough smooth and just con- 
sistent enough to handle. Flour th<j toard, 
turn cut dough, give it one or two quick 
kneadings to conipletj il.s smoothness, roll it 
out with rolling jiin to Vs incli in thickness, 
cut with sharp knife into squares larger than 
soda cracker.s, fold each in half to form three- 
cornered pieces. Hake or, hc>t griddle 8 or 10 
minutes; brown on both side.-;. 

Layer Cake (Susie's) — Half cup butter, 1 
cup sugar, 'A eggs, H cup milk, 2 cups flour, 3 
teaspoons baking powder. 

Cake Made in a Hurry — Two cup-s flour, 1 
egg, 1 cup white sugar, 1 cup milk or water, 

2 teaspoons cream tartar, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 
tablespoons melted butter. Put all in a bowl 
together and beat until light. 

(iinj;er Cookies ' '".!'■ r:ip each .^ugar, mo- 
lasses and butter, (or lard), 1 teaspoon ginger, 
1 egg, 1 teaspoon soda, V2 cup w-arm water, 
gait, bVjt cups flour. 1^)11 soft as p"ssible. 

Ginger Snaps — One cup sugar, 1 cup mo- 
lasses, 1 cup butter or lard, 1 teaspoon ginger, 

1 egg, 1 teaspoon soda, '2 cup warm water, 
salt, 5Va cups flour. Roll out as soft as pos- 
sible. 

Herniils (Cookies) -1 '2 cups sugar, 1 cup 
butter, ,'5 eggs, 1 large cup raisins stoned and 
chopped, 1 teaspoon allspice, cinnamon and 
nutmeg, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Flour to 
roll out. 

Diamonds — Prepare dough as for biscuit. 
Knead and roll out ','2 inch thick . Cut in 
strips 2 inches wide, then cut strips into dia- 
monds, place on greased pans 1 inch apart, 
brush with milk, and bake in very hot oven. 

Chocolate Cake — One cup grated chocolate, 
'■^ cup sweet milk, -^i cup brown sugar, yolk 
of 1 egg, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Cook slowly like 
a cream, cool, then add the following: Vi cup 
butter, 1 cup brown sugar, 2 eggs, H cup milk, 

2 cups fltnir, in which sift 1 teaspoon soda. 
Bake in a slow oven. 

Walnut Cake — Half cup butter creamed, 1% 
cups sugar adiled gradually, ■% cup milk, 2 
cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 cup 
walnuts cho])pcd fine, whites of 4 eggs beaten 
stiff. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. 

Chocniate Cake — One cup sugar, % cup but- 
ter, 2 eggs, M cup sou • milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 
1 section chocolate, 1 large cup flour. 

One Egg Muffin -fVi cups flour, 3 teaspoons 
baking powder, % teaspoon salt, 114 teaspoons 
sugar. Beat a small egg thoroughly. Add it 
gradually with h cup of milk, to the dry in- 
jrredients, and beat hard. At the last moment 



add 1 '/2 tablespoons melted butter. Drop tht 
batter into hot buttered iron gem pans, and 
bake in a hot oven over 2,'j minutes. 

Tea Cake — Half cup butter, 3 cups flour, 3 
eggs, 1 cup currants, Vs cup sugar, 3 teaspoons 
baking powder, •!4 cup milk. Bake in a long 
pan. Split and butter. (Cut into squares). 

Cream Caki"-- One cup sugar, 3 desfiertapoona 
melted butter, 3 eggs beaten light, 4 dessert- 
spoons boiling water (last), 1 cup flour sifted 
twice, 2 tea.spoons baking powder. 

Filling — One pint milk, 1 egg, piece of but- 
ter, 1 dessertspoon cornstarch, 1 teaspoon van- 
illa. I'a teaspoons sugar. 

Kock (.'ookies — Four cups flour measured and 
sifted, 2 teaspoons baking powder, pinch of 
salt, •;* cup lard and butter mixed, I cup 
granulated sugar, ',.■> cup currants, milk enough 
to wot. Di-op in dabs on buttered pans. 

(lernian I'ufTs— -One pint flour, 2 tahlespoona 
sugar, ] ',-2 teaspoons baking powder, 3 table- 
spoons butter, 4 eggs, 1 cup cream. Cream 
butter and sugar; add beaten eggs, then, al- 
ternately, the cream and dry ingredients sifted 
together. Bake in well-greased cups in hot 
oven. 

Bannocks — Scald 2 cups Indian corn meal 
with just enough boiling water to moisten. 
Cover, let stand 30 minutes; add 4 beaten eggs, 
2 cups milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespi>ons 
nielu'd butter, 1 cup flinir, 1 t<aapoon baldng 
powdor. Bake in greased shallow panf> in hot 
oven. 

London Crumpets — 1 'a pints flour, % tea- 
spoon sa't, 1 tea.ipoon sugar, 2 teaspooss bak- 
ing powder, 1 egg, nearly a pint milk and cream 
in equal parts. 1 teaspoon extract cinnamon. 
Sift together flour, salt, sugar and powder; 
add beaten egg, milk, cream and extract; mix 
into rather firm batter; half fdl large greased 
mulTin-riiigs on hot, well-greased griddle. Bake 
on one side of them onlv Serve hot with cot- 
tage cheese. 

Husks — 1 ' i pints flour, i.-i teaspoon salt, 2 
tablespoons sugar, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 
2 tablespoons butter, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon each 
extract mitmeg and cinnamon, % pint milk. 
Sift together flour, salt, sugar and powder; 
rub in butter; add milk, beaten eggs and ex- 
tracts. Mix into dough soft enough to handle; 
flour the board, turn out dough, give it quick 
turn or two to complete its smoothness. Roll 
under the hands into round balls size of a small 
o'j's; lay them on greased shallow cake-pan, 
put very close together, sprinkle a little sugar 
over, bake in moderately heated oven about 30 
minutes. 

Drop Cakes — One pint flour, ^s teaspoon 
salt, '2 teaspoon sugar, 1 teaspoon baking 
powder sifted together. Rub in l^ tablespoon 
lard. Mix with milk to a thick batter. Drop 
by spoonfuls on greased pans, and bake in a 
very hot oven. 

Imperial C^ke — % cup butter. 1^ cups 
sugar, 3 egg yolks, 2% cups flour. 3 teaspoons 
baking pov/der, M cup milk, 2 cups seeded 
raisins, 1*^ cups currants, 1 cup citron, H cup 
candied orange peel, li cup brandy, 3 egg 
whites, Vi teaspoon salt. Mix as batter cake, 



\VK AllK THK ONLY KIKM IN CANADA WHO SPEND OUR ADVERTISING MONEY WITH THE ( ONSIMER 




1 



IXL SI'K K AND COFFEE MILLS., LIMITED, LONDON, ONT. 



ALWAYS USE 



iddiujf fruit la.st, Lake in buttered and pa 
pered tins for one hour in moderate oven. 

Dark Fruit Cakt — Two cups bulter, 2 cups 
• ugar, 12 egjf8, 4 cups flour, 1 lea.>poon baking 
powder, 'j tea.'.poon salt, 1 pound currants, i 
pound bhccd citrons, 3 p.;.iid.s seeded raisins, 
1 pound chopped figs, Vi v^up any kind of wine, 
J Ublespoons strained lemon juice, 2 teaspoons 
cinnamon, '^ teaspoon each cloves and mace, 
%i tea.-poon each all.-^picc and nutmeg. Sift to- 
gether flour, f;alt, bakiiifj powder and spices. 
Dredge fruit thoroughly. Cream butler and 
sugar, add beaten yoiks and lemon juice. Al- 
ternate flou and wine, add wiiipped whites and 
beat for ■ ilnutes. Ktir in prepared fruit. 
Line loai ■ .; with 4 thicknesses paper; pour 
in batter. ake in slov? oven from ;i to 5 hours, 
covering paan with paper until JS baked. 

Hridc'B Cake — One .«cant cup butter, 3 cups 
sugar, 1 cup milk, whites 12 eggs, 3 teaspoons 
baking powder, 1 cup cornstarch,- .'i cups flour, 
'<* teaspoon s.ilt. Cnam butier aiid sugar. Mix 
fiour, bakirig powder and cornstarch, and add 
Alternately with milk and whipped whites. 
Flavor with vanilla or almond extract and 
bako in loaf-tin lined with 4 thicknesses of 
paper; k : /e oven moderate. 

Banana Cake — Half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 
4 cup milk, 2 scant cups flour, l'^ teaspoons 
baking powder, whites 4 e^gs, =^ teaspoon 
vanilla. Mix flour and baking powder. Cream 
butter and sugar, add milk and flour altenuite- 
iy, then vanilla and be-.ten whites. Bake in Ji 
layer-tins in hot oven. To receipt for boiled 
icing (see Cake Fillings) add '/2 cup mashed 
banana and use as filling.. Dust top with pow- 
dered sugar. 

Chocolatft Cream Cake — 1'^ pounds each 
batter, sugar and flour, 14 eggs. Beat the 
yolks separate with sugar and butter. Heat 
the whites separately, and a'M ♦■• •!'••',••>. To '^ 
of the dough mix '-u pounl ,'' -nd bake 

of each part (the dark and ligm » i.- lakes. For 
filling take ^ pint cream, yolks 8 eggs. Sugar 
to taste; flavor with extract vanilla, put on 
fire and stir until it thickens, then put between 
the cakes. 

Date Cake— €ream together 1 cuji brown su- 
gar, v.. cun butter, 2 eggs, ',-i cup warm water, 
1'4 cups flour, with 1 teaspoon soda in tlour, 1 
lb. chopped dates, '-;.. cup English walnuts 
chopped, 1 teaspoon vaiiilla. 

•tpple Jelly Cake— One cup batter, ■.; cups 
sugar, 4 eggs, 3 cup- flour, 1 '^ teaspoons bak- 
ing j.iowder, 1 cup tin Ik, G apples, (> ounce-s 
Bugar, 1 tea.'ipoon butter. Rub together butter 
arid sugar to fine, light, v.-liite cream, add eggs 

2 at a time, beating 10 minutes after each ad- 
dition. Sift flour and baking powder together. 
Slid to butter, etc., with milk, and mix into 
rather thin batter. Bake in ji'lly-ral:e tins 
c-arofuUy greased. Meanwhile have apples 
peeled and sliced, put on fire with sugar; when 
tender remova. rub through fine ico, and 
ndd butter. When cold use to spread between 
layers. Cover cake plentifully with sugar 
.-.ificn over top. 

N'lit Cuke— Half cup butter, 1 '4 cups sugar, 

3 egg-i 2'-i cupp flour. 1 '-2 teaspoons baking 



RECIPES—Continued. 

BWEETUEAKT UKA.NU BAKING J'OWDJilt. KXTKACT8 AND HPICBS 



nuts preferred or at hand. Hub the butter and 
sugar to a light, white cream; add the eggs 
beaten a httle, then the flour, suU-d with the 
powder; mix with the milk and nut^ uuo . 
rather lirm batter, and bake in a paper-lined 
tin, in a steady oven, 35 minutes. 
. Lunch Cake (BosLoni~-i wo cups butter 2 
cup.-, sugar, IV^ pints flour, 1 teaspoon bakiiyr 
powder, eggs, i gill wine, 1 teaspoon each 
extract rose, cuinamon, and nutmeg. Rub the 
butter and sugar to a very light cream; add 
tiie eggs, - at a time, beating minutes after 
eacli adduion; add the flour sifted with the 
powder, wine, extracts; mix into a smooth bat- 
ter, put into a thickly papered shallow cake- 
pan, and bane in moderate oven 1 •■* hours 
When cold, ice the bottom and sides with white 
icing. 

Light Fruit Cake— Ilai: cup butter, 1 cud 
sugar, Vi cup milk, 2 cup.-, flour, 1 ■,*, teaspoons 
baking powder, whites 4 eggs, % cup seeded 
raisins, !,2 cup sliced citron, Jj cup chopped 
blanched almonds, 'A teaspoon salt. Mix flour 
baking powder, and Halt. Dredge fruit with 
flour. Cream butter and s^ugar; add beaten 
wiutes, and beat hard; add flour and milk and 
beat Jigain; stir m the prepared fruit. Line 
a ioaf-pan with 3 thicknesses of j^apcr, and 
bake cake I'i, hours in moderate oven, covorinr 
v.Uh paper for first hour. 

Spice Cake— One cup butter, 1 cup brown 
sugar, 1 pint flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 teaspoon each of caraway atid coriander 
«oeds, 1 teaspoon each e.-ctract nutmeg, cinna- 
.-non and ginger, 1 cup milk, sift flour, sugar 
and baking powder together, rub in butter, add 
milK, seeds and extracts. Mix smooth into a 
batter, bake in patty tins for ten or twelve 
minutes. 

i'each Cake— One cup pulverized sugar, >4 

cup butter, sli.-nd \.r'i-',Y.,.r .|.^rji jjke thick 

cup 



'-; 



'.-2 



crean;, 2 ti;! ■ ■ i.., . ■ , 

sweet milk: 1:.,;.; i,,,. .v;,iuv. ,:; o eggs, and add 

to a cup ot (li.ur, iii;xcd with the baking pow- 



a; 



dor; stir 
Flavor st 
2 square .-i' 
aiid wlien c 
cocoanui and 



.1 



teaspoon cornstarch. 

h extract peach. Bake in 

.n moderately quick oven, 

;v,'ich with finely grated 

. . sugar. Frost with clear 

ifing, and sprinkle this with pulverized pink 
sugar. 



pii 



powder, 4 cup milk, 1 cup of any meata of 

WIC AHK THE ONLY FIRM IN CANADA WHO SPEND OUR ADVKH tlSlNG MONEV WITH TllK ( O.N.SUMEK 



FILLINCS AND K fNCS FOR CAKE. 

Cream Filling :,., sugar. 3 cups milk. 

■'■ ii'^apmg tables;. , ..r,,starch, yolks eggi, 

1 tabiesp.ion butter, 2 teaspoon.s extract vanilla- 
Scald miik in douhl.- (..uilr-r, add cornstarch dis- 
solved m liitlo c- ; stir till smooth. Add 
su-ar, ,•,.,!< ,10 n:i ... ... Add egg yolks, cook 4 

'■ 'ake ofT and add vanilia. 

ii;.l . ■ Soft Iring—Hoil 2 cup."; granulated 
sugar v.i'), 1 cup water without stirring till it 
ropes when (iropped from fork. Take quickly 
from fire, let stand untouched till hlood-warm. 
Boat till thick as syft dough, take in hands and 

knead till <jnft amfiofJi or-^ .%i-,,.i..... ii- -1, ;_ 

covered glass and keep in cold place. Tw use 
put some in bowl, set in hot water, stir con- 
stantly till soft enough to spread. Flavor and 
use. Will keep indefinitely. 



10 



!\l 



!< i: .w 



)||-i;i; MILLS, LIMITKlt, L(»N1)()\, OXT. 



lllllllllj|l,!l||IU!|l||:||||lj'':'ii!i!iTrT: 
.HllliitnilliililtJIlllilni 




'^:-,<t,.,' 



Chocolate, Unsweetened. 
10c — 1 coupon 




~> 



^^•ocolate Cream 




1 "; \ 



1 1 h, — 2 i'i">u ii'"* 

Ciiui {u.A I r- < 5. 1 .\.ti ii'irf?^ 

C0FF?:E.— Beinc <-> ■. t-y fine Ki«nd of «!l pure 
toffees, from ihc f. ' irrowth.-*. thi« coffee has 
a pariifuUrly api>cli.-.ir,^r ilavor, and U « favor- 
It* wi'H hU. 



swkethp:.\ut bu.xnd (offke. 

Our coffee is the (Juecn of Hlcnds. Roaate4 
by our special procuh:;, it has a dolicious flavor 
and aroi?ia which en.surus it b" uppetiziat 
beverage. 

The coiTte bfj.-in is selected from 'he choicest 
urowthn of : ' > \'.orld'M (ine.it coffee Celda »n^ 
our own fa!]ioii.s bleiui. 

f.;soe!!.-'nt for breakfa.st, afternoon lanchsc 
tvnjfting socials, etc. 




10c — 1 coupon 

BOHAX — 8\veeUi<:irt Brand H irax is abso 
luteiy pure, arid i'' !;:.^'li!y recr.inmended fo» 
baths, .softoniii^.' ■■■.^■■■>\ washing white clothes. 
Bcourinp sinks, ;.il.'i:)th.s, wuDdwork, etc. 



Si,„,,!e !;,,l, f.r *.!.!Vinp; rofTee — To on« 



part 

plai-o ': 
the ■■^■■■ 
and '.•■ i' 
lon;:(M-. 
spoon;' ' 
proiin-; 
perfect: 



D parts v.ater. First 

:■'.■!' iti III"; p'.t, then add 

; II .1!!', i; ,il the coffee 

:■ ,,■ ,' { ;;i [.iiiiutes, not 

■ ,: I '. • .• ]i >\ B '.arj^e tea- 

,! Artier; I'.rn 'Aill force ths 

bfdl'Hi) ami r.'iuier the liquid 

'■.■rve immediately with good 



cream, if ; 

The above rule applies to the ordinary cof- 
fcc-pMl (whioh rhould he p.->r:-c lain or ^T&nile 
lined) without tiitciing stiachment of any 
kind. !f you prefer a patent pot, foll'jw th« 
rule accompanying it. 



\VK \!' 



NADA WHO S1'EN» ni.K ADVKKllSINi; .MO.NKY WITH iUK CO.NSl.'MER 



IXL SPICK AND C0FFI:E MILLS, LIMITKl). LONDON. ONT. 



RECIPES— Continued. 



11 



Cr«aM Filling One cup thiclt cream whipp«i 
t4> ft Bolid froth, Vi cu? powderpd sugar, 1 i«ft- 
upoon extract vaailla. Mix lighliy toKether 
»r.d ore at once. 

Chocolate rilHrB- I'ive tublcspoons grated 
vhocolate, cream to mi,isten, 1 cup sutrar, I 
*^g, 1 teaspiK^n extract vaiiiila. Beat eKg, add 
thocolatf and cuKar, cook over fire till thick, 
«dd tifcYoring. 

Lemon Fiilsjij; — Gratnl rind 2 lemoue, their 
ttraincd juice. 2 cups Pv.jfar, *.Lites 2 <:gKS, i 
iup boiling water, 2 tablespoons flour uuied 
with cold water, 1 iablc.;pui»n melted butter. 
Cook to?:ether in double boiltr, adding beaten 
whites last. 

Fri'i! FinitiK--rcnjr tablespoons fi!;ely chop- 
pud ciiTon, earce of chopped seeded rai.>^in», Vi 
tup chopped blanched almiynds, V* pound chop- 
fed flgB, whirped whiles 3 eprgs '.a cup aujar. 
Whif while* with sugar, add fruits and b««t 



Si^^^^^^ 




15c — 1 coupon 

PANCAKE FLOUR 

Our Pancake Flour is made from corn, wheat 
An^ lice, which makes a pleasing flavored pan- 
cake. «erved with hot syrup, sugar and melted 
butter. 




I5c — 1 coupon 

SWEETHEART BUCKWHEAT FLOUR. 

Through our new milling process, our Buck- 
»heat Flour excels any other on the Canadian 
I arket. Made from the finest Canadian buck- 
" heat. 

English Pancakes — One pint milk, 2 ejgs, 1 
lablespoon sugar, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon bak- 
ng powdtr, 1 cup cream, pinch salt. Sift 
Hour, salt and powder topcther; add to it egg"* 
t>oatcn with sugar and diluted with milk and 
cream; mix into thin batter. Have email 
round frying-pan; melt little butter in it; pour 
about ^ cup batter in it, turn pan round, that 
batter may cover the pan, put on hot fira; 
turn it and brown other side. Butter each and 
roll it up; sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

Pancakes — One pint flour, 6 eg^a, 1 salt- 
spoon salt, 1 teaspoon baking powder, and milk 
'o make a thin batter. Add the baking pow- 
der to the flour, beat the whites and yolka of 
eggs separately; add the yolks, salt, 2 cupa 
milk, then the whites and the flour altemutely 
with milk, until the batter is of right consis- 
tency. Ran 1 teaypoon lard over the bottom 
of a hot frying-pan, pour in a large handful of 
batter, and fry quickly. Roll pancake up lika 
a sheet of paper, lay upon a hot dish, put in 
more lard, and fry another pancake. Keep hot 
over hoiling water. Send »4 dozen to tabt« 
at a time. Serve with sauce, jelly, or p\^ 
serves. 



W K 



AUK THE ONLY FIKM IN CANAD.V WHO SPEND OUR ADVERTKSING MONEY WITH THE CONSUMER 



r 



IXL SI'ICK AND COFFEE MILLS., LLMITED.. LONDON, ONT. 



IIECII'ES— Continued. 

Al.WAYB I'SE SWEETIIEAKT BRAND BARING POWDER, EXTRACTS AND SPICES 



Cocoanul Filling 'i o cream filling, add 2 
eupH freshly j^'ated cocuanut, and 2 teaspoons 
•xtracl vanilla. 

Almond ItniK- Whites 3 eggs, 1 lb. Jordan 
(swet'l) almonds, 8 cups .sugar, 10 drops ex- 
tract rose. I'ound to fine paste almonds, with 
a little sugar; then add whites of eggs, rest of 
sugar, and extract; pound few nunutea to 
thoroughly mix. Take ui> in l^owl and use as 
directed. 

I'ruiu- and Nut Filling— Soak Vi lb. large 
prune.-, over night. .Steam until plump and 
soft. Remove pits. When cold add Va cup 
chopped blanched almonds and stir into this 
whites 13 eg(;s, beaten btilT, with V2 cup pow- 
dered sugar. 

Marshmallow Frosting- Ikat 2 tablespoons 
milk and H tablespocms sugar over fire, boil H 
minutes without stirring. In double boiler heat 
\i lb. cut niarshmaUows. When very soft add 
2 tablespoons boiling water, cock till smooth. 
Beat in hot sugar; keep beating till partly 
«ool, add Va teaspoon extract vanilla. Use at 
once. 



CANDIES. 

Taffy— One pint brown sugar, 1 cup boiling 
water, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 1 oz. of butter, 
flavoring. Boil 20 minutes, or until it will 
harden in wat.r, \hv\\ I'lur on buttered plates 
to cool. 

Feppermint Drops- One cup sugar (pow- 
dered is best), moisten with boiling water and 
boil i) mituite... 'lake from the tire and add 
cream tartar size of a pea, mix well and add 
4 or 5 drops of oil of peppermint. Beat briskly 
until the fondat whitens, then drop on paper. 
Measure crer.m tartar and oil of peppermint 
while the sugar is boiling. It should not sugar 
before it is dropped, should it do so, add a 
little water. 

Nut Molasses Candy— When you make this 
candy use the best molasses and any kind of 
nuts vou mav choose. Stir them in after the 
syrup" has thickened and is ready to take from 
the fire, then pour out in well buttered tin. 
Make into sciuares, or work it if you choose. 
The more vou do this the yellower it will be. 
If you use 'peanuts see that the red inner skin 
!e removed, or it will give the candy a bitter 
taste. 

Fudge — Co<ik '■\ cups sucar, 1 cup '"ilk. and 
1 tablespoon butter. When sugar is melted 
add 4 or 5 tablespoons cocoa. Stir and boil 15 
minutes. Take from fire, add 1 teaspoon va- 
nilla, stir till creamy, pour on buttered plates, 
cut in squares. 

F'eanut Brittle — Shell and chop roasted nuts 
to mea.<iure 1 pint. Put 2 lbs. granulated sugar 
In clean frying pan. Stir over slow fire. It 
will lump, then gradually melt. When pale 
coffee color and clear add nuts and pour quick- 
ly on buttered tin sheet. Roll thin as possible. 
When cold break up. 

Hickorr Nut Candy— One cup hickory nuts 
(meats)," 2 cups sugar, '-2 cup water Boil 
■ugar and water, without stirring, until thick 
enoufh to spin a thread; flavor with extract 



lemon or vanilla. Set off into cold water; stir 
quickly until white; then stir in nuts, turn into 
flat tin; when cold cut into small squarei. 

Chocolate Caramels— Two cups molassei, 1 
cup brown sugar, 1 cup cream or milk ,V4 
lb. chocolate, piece of butter size of an egp. 
Beat all together; boil until it thickens m 
water; turn into large flat tins, well buttered. 
When nearly cold, cut into small squares. 

Ice Cream Candy— Three cups sugar, crushed 
or cut loaf, a little less than '/<. cup vinegar, 1\4 
cups cold water, piece of butter size of a wal- 
nut, flavor with extract vanilla. Boil until it 
hardens, then pull until white. 

Candied I'opcorn— Put into an iron kettle 1 
tablespoon butter, 3 tablespoons water, 1 tea- 
cup white pulverized sugar. Boil until ready to 
candy, then throw in 3 quarts nicely popped 
corn. Stir briskly till candy is evenly dis- 
tributed over corn. Take kettle from fire, stir 
until it is cooled a little and you have each 
jrruin separate and crystallized with sugar, 
taking care that corn does not burn. Nuta or 
any kind may be prepared in same way. 

.Molasses Candy— Three cups yellow coffee 
sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup water, Va teaspoon 
cream tartar, butter size of a walnut. Follow 
directions for cream candy. 

Velvet Molasses Candy— Put 1^ lbs. sugar, 
J^ pint molasses, \<i pint water, »4 cup vine- 
gar, in agate kettle. Heat, when b- Ung add 
•z teaspoon cream tartar, boil till it crisps in 
cold water. Stir, when almost done add % 
lb. butter, 'i teaspoon soda. Cool in buttered 
pan and pull. 

Kaisin Filling— One teacup sugar and a lit- 
tle water, boiled together until brittle, when 
dropped into cold water. Remove from stove. 
and stir quickly into the well beaten whiteof 
1 egg. Add to this 1 cup of stoned raisins 
chopped fine, or, dates, figs or nuts. 

Banana Filling— Chop 2 bananas with a lit- 
tle pulverized sugar and lemon juice. 

Orange Frosting— One lb. frosting sugar, 
juice of 1 lemon, juice and grated rind of an 
orange. 

Caramel Icing— One cup sugar and '/} cup 
milk, boiled together until it hairs, add 1 tea- 
spoon butter. Flavor and stir until thick 
enough to spread on cake. 

Puddinsi Sauce— Half cup sugar, a little 
flour, teaspoon butter, brown a little of the 
sugar, then add rest of sugar mixed with the 
flour, then the butter. 

Pudding Sauct> — One cup sugar, Vi cup but^ 
ter, 1 egg, Va cup wine. 



PUDDINCS AND AFTERNOON DESSERTS 

Apple Pudding With Rice — Six sour apple*, 
1 cup cold boiled ric«, 1 pint milk, 1 cup sugar, 
the juice and rind of a lemon, yolks of 4 eggs. 

OrO anu cusp ti;e &yi! rrs, r.-rd :<<r: • >• r: SOG 

milk, beat the lumps out, add other ingredi- 
ents and bake. Beat the whites of the eggs 
with a little sugar. Spread on top and 
brown. 



WK AltH THK ONLY riRM IN C.\N.M).\ WHO Sl'END OUR ADVERTISING MONEY WITH THE CONSUMER 



IXL SFICE AND COKFEK MILLS., LLMITED., LONDON, ONT. 



13 



RECIPES— Continued. 

ALWAYS I'HE SWEETHKAKT BKAND BAKING I'OWDEK. KXTKACTS AND 8FICBS 



FoUo-w 



Snow I'uddinR — One box gelatine, the juice 
of 4 lemons, 1 cup suKar, 2 cup.s boiling water 
•nd 1 cup cold water, [^ cup .sherry. ],et cool 
and thicken, then beat in white.s of a eggs. 
Serve with custard (boiled). 

Rico I'udding — Three pints milk, % cup rice, 
1 cup sugar, butter size of an egg, a little 
■alt. i'ut^ all togethcM', and let it boil up 
quickly. Set it in the oven, cover with a plate, 
and bake 2 hours. 

Rice and Tapioca Pudding — Half cup rice, 
V4 cup tapioca, -U cup .sugar, ;i pint.s milk, cin- 
namon to taste. Soak tapioca in milk 3 houra, 
wa.sh rice in several waters, soak in another 
cup of milk as long as you do the tapioca. 
Sweeten the remaining quart of milk, and 
put all ingredients together, and bake two 
hours in a .slow oven. Eat cold. 

Baked Cuslard.s — For each quart milk allow 
4 large or 5 small* eggs and 3 tablespoons 
BUgar. Warm milk; pour (jver eggs and sugar 
beaten together. l''ill small earthen cups or 
pudding-dish. Stand in pan of warm water; 
add flavoring to suit, and bake in moderate 
oven till firm in center. For chocolate cus- 
tards melt chocolate with sugar. 

Cream Rice I'udding— One cup rice, 1 cup cold 
water. Let boil until rico has absorbed water 
—about 7 minutes, then add 1 quart milk, 
pinch oi salt, some grated lemon rind, and let 
boil slowly on back of stove for about 30 min- 
ates. 

Cornstarch Custard — Scald 1 quart milk. 
Dissolve 2 level teaspoons corn.starch in little 
cold milk. Turn quickly into hot milk; stir till 
thickened, then cover and cook 10 minutes. 
Beat 2 eggs with 3 tablespoons sugar, add to 
custard, stir a moment longer, strain. Add 
flavoring when partly cooled. 

Apple Snow — Core, quarter, and steam 3 
large, sour apples. Rub through sieve, cool; 
whip whites 3 eggs to very stiff froth with M 
cup powdered sugar; gri,dually add apple and 
whip long time till wlhte and stiff. Pile in 
dish, garnish with dots currant jelly. 

Charl >tte Ru.sse — Mix 1 pint rich cream, >/i 
cup powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Have 
very cold and whip to stiff froth, turning 
under cream when it first rises. Line dish 
with sponge cake or lady-fingers, fill with 
whipped cream. 

Chocolate Blanc-mange — Quart milk, ^^ box 
gelatine soaked in 1 cup water, 4 tablespoons 
grated chocolate rubbed smooth in a little 
milk, 3 eggs, extract vanilla to taste. Beat 
milk until boiling, then add other ingredients; 
boil 5 minutes. Pour into mold. Serve cold 
with sugar and cream, or custard. 

.A,pple Tapioca — Pare and quarter six large 
tart apples, place in a dish and pour over ona 
cup of sugar, a little salt and butter. Cook 
for fifteen minutes in the double boiler one- 
half cup of quick t-apiora and a pinch of salt 
In one quart of water. Pour this over the ap- 
ple.«. Cover the dish and^ bake a half-hour. 
Serv'e with cream and sugaV. 

Orange Charlotte— One cup of boiling water 
in which is dissolved 1 envelope of Quick 
f«latine, 1 cup of orange juice and 1 ."small cup 



of sugar. Mix these together. When cold 
and partially stiff, add the whites of 3 eggs 
beaten to a froth and turn into a wot mould. 
When served garnish with whipped cream. 

Canada Cream—One pint of milk, 1 envel- 
ope of Quick gelatine, yolks of two eggt 
beaten with two tablespoons of sugar and a 
little salt. When the : ulk is boiling hot, stir 
in slowly the gelatin^, then add the yolka, 
sugar and salt and boil about three minutea 
as you would soft custard. Remove from fire, 
stir in the whites beaten with two tablespoon! 
of sugar, and flour to taste. 

Hard Times I'udding — Half pint molassei, 
';4 pint cold water, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 
1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, add 
a littU; salt, some spices, 2 cups currants, some 
raisins. Make this all into a batter, and steam 
about 2 hours. 

Lemon I'udding — One cup sugar, 4 eggs, 1 
talilespoons cornstarch, 2 lemons, juice of both 
and rind of one, 1 pint milk, 1 tablespoon but- 
ter. Heat the milk to boiling, t nd stir in the 
cornstarch wet with a little water. Boil 5 
niinutes, stirring constantly. While hot mix 
in the butter, and set aside to cool. Beat 
yolks light, and add sugar, mixing thoroughly 
before putting in the lemon juice and grated 
rind. Beat this to a stiff cream, and add grad- 
ually to the rest. 

Suet Pudding — Two eggs, 1 cuo milk, ^ cup 
molasses, V2 cup finely chopped suet, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 3 scant 
cups flour, spices to taste, and 1 cup mixed. 
chopped fruit — raisins, citron, currants, or al-' 
inonds. Steam 2 hours £»id serve with a soft 
sauce. 



JELLIES. ETC. 

General Directions — Empty the contents of 
package into a bowl. Then add one pint of 
boiling water and stir till all is dissolved. Put 
in a cold place to set. Use a little less water 
in hot weather. Do not use tin moulds. 

Directions for Turning Jellies Out of Mouldi 

— When the jelly is set and ready to be served, 
take the mould, which contains it, and dip 
the outiif'e in hot water two or three seconds, 
not more, then place plate over mould and turn 
(luickly upside down and jelly will come out 
neatly and look attractive on the table. 

To Combine Fruit of Various Kinds With 

.Sweetheart Jellies. — First, in the case of fresh 
fruit such as strawberries, raspberries, black- 
berries, etc., be sure they are thoroughly clean. 
Then prepare whatever jelly you desire to add 
these to, pour into a mould till half full and 
put away in a cold place. When it has begun 
to stiffen place the fruit into it neatly as you 
desire it to appear when turned out. Then 
pour into ihe mould the remainder of the jelly 
covering over the fruit with it, and put away 
in a cold place to set. With bananas and 
oranges, peel and slice them, then add to the 
iellv in the same way as fresh fruit, These 
make the most delicious dishes for afternoon 
teas, supper-parties and banquets, making as 
they do a most attractive dessert and one 
which is very much relished. 



WE ARE THE ONLY FIRM IN CANADA WHO SPEND OUR ADVERTISING MONEY WITH THE CONSUMER 



! 1 



KF: MH.LS, l.IMITEn, LON'DON, ont. 








M STANDARD QOfflf 
' I ^OF CAN ADA H,h 



liM- 1 coupcn 




♦a 







\ 




lOc — 1 coufjori 



MUSTARDS. 

> X L Brand — 15c and 23c Un«. 

Made from the rlioirest trowtha af kig'i 
irrade Enfflish Mustard Seed, manufacUrad tfjf 

-1 new method, and packed onlj by %». W« 
^rjarantce this hrr-nd to be equal in «ialU;^. 

avor and strength lo any muatard •> tk«i 

ABtdtan market. 

TCflhtart Brand— 10c tine. 

Made from tht finest Knglish MaataT* a***-. 
,r D. S. F. mustard is o^ the finest qnaltty 
*« that most delightful horaeraditfc fi*v«<' 
: tAti, picnic sandwiches, etc. 

Sweetheart Salad Dre««in|t 

lOr — 1 coupon 




10c — I coupon 

FRENCH MUSTARD— Sweetheart Brft»4 
French Mustard is made from a choice selecUeK 
sf mustard seed, V/ilh vir.egsr s,r,6 spicss. 
which makes a very palatable dressing fee 
ne*t«, sandwiches, etc. 



•1*1 

Si 
ee«a 

•^■ei 



* 



El 

•re 1 

»hic 



WE ARK THK ONLY I'lKM IN CANADA WHO SPEND OUR ADVERTISING MONEY WITH THE CONSUMER 



3W1 

Is 

Irst 
«8te 
plea 
•ouj 

WK 



IXI. SPICK AND COFFEK MIM.S, LIMIT 



" '\, ON'T 






t*tt. 
Ills? 



* 



BmMI 

BcUec 



aWEETHEAUr BUAMj 1 Kl'I'FRS. 

W« import direct from pepper plantationa, 
*• flnaat pepper» grown, such as Tiilicherry, 
ilnfspore, Allt-ppi and I, u;i;>i!n>;. 

Same are rarcfully niilk-d by <!ar new pr»- 
«•«■ of the 2'Jlh ccnlur), so a.-< to pruduc* th« 
'^■eat grain and re'aii) itx anxna. Abaolutely 



..-^ 



r 



• •^ .r_m" WH I , , I WUM I I !" 







ri 






r»uf?t 



EPSOM SAIK 



" L SPICE AND 

COFFEE MIUS_«« 



EPSOM SALTS— The old-fashioned health 
/aatorer. When using Sweetheart Brand you 
are ueing a very hitrhly refined ^rade of salta, 
which is recommended by all physicians. 



2WEET1IEAUT BRAND CLIUtY POWDER. 

Ii made from an ancient recipe, which was 
irst used in India, whoie Curry Powder origi- 
»*ted in ol-^iev: ■:■:;■?-. We are sure you will be 
pleased with its Oriental aroma. Use for 

loupa, catsups and pickles. 



»■ 



bN 



^ 




tWHiTEPEPPER 



I X L SpK-c 

and Coffee Mills. 



lOc—I coupon 



Sweetheart Brand Cocoa 
25c Tin.s — 1 coupon 
10c Tins — 1 coupon 




10c — 1 coupon 



aiMER 



\\'i: 



'KK THK ONI.V MItM IN CANAD.X WHO SPEND OUR ADVEKTISINO MONEY WITH THE CONSUMER 



\NIi foII'Ki: MII.I.S., MMITE 
Kia:U'i!iS —Continued. 



1) , LONDON, ONT. 



Al.rtA>a I HK HWhl.lHKART HUASlJ UA 

Spaiu^li ( rt-ani One 1<>X Ki'l'*l'"'^> J'SM'jlvt'il 
tn ii quuil., milk. Then beat yolks of 8 eggs, 
togi'llitr with 2 cups .sugar, and pour in the 
boiluiK iiiUK and Kflaiiiit!. U-X it boil for a 
muim-Mit. llttvo thf h while* iKalcn to a sliff 
froth, add your fhivorinK' I" •!"' """*• »""^ P"^^ 
the whole into the • '■'■ uruuud, and 

pour into mouldrf. 

Bttvariun Cream u no can pineapple (shred- 
ded), 1 <'up .suK'ur, 1 pint cream, '^ box Kclu- 
tJne. I'our juicx of pini'iijiplu off and put /» 
of It on gilaline and Vjl on su^ar. I'u^ «"K'*'' 
on to b'.il until it gets like thick syrup. U»h- 
■olve the gelatine and juice in it, and net oIT 
to cool. llav« the cream wbifpi-'d .slitl, and 
beat in the syrup, jTclatine and pmeappl.- l oL 
divide to cool in mould. 

A Nice Dessert- Slice I "cr banana:., , in e 
l»yer oranfcea, ^■,llce lay<!r pintai)plc, prars or 
any fruit you lil<c. and a few walnulH, ',ii b'.x 
Jelalii.e ,M,ake<l in >/i pint of cold water half 
in h-.ur. Tiicn add 'i. pint boilu.K water. 
S.,u<-/... a lemon, .weeten to ta.;-le I'"""; ov" 
fniii and sfrve with cream or boded cu.stard. 

I.es.ert l'uirH--One pint Bweet milk, a Bcant 
oinl of flour. I! cpK^. whites and yoUvs btaten 
■epiiraU'i;'- - ' ■ 

quid Haute 

Orp.iiKe Marmalade- .-'.,v, i, . .-U-r o;a;.Ki-\, if- 
.w;e^.run«...0 1c:,w.ns.unb^..u«:u-..'.JHn^ 
ho* wut.r. Slice the Huit as lii^e a;,d Uun a« 
,n an eartiien jur. pour tm the 
!i'!. It .-tand 

I , • ''.' ■ iui 111 



KI.NU ruWUKK. KXTBAtTS AND BHK'W 

of I'remh p d, leaving water in bowl. The« 
take boiling water and pour over coffee very 
Hh.wly. Then set cuffei-pot on .Htove 5 min- 
utes; must not boil. Take off and pour la 
cold water from bowl that coffee wa.s Hnit 
.H(.ak<;<l in, to settle. Servo in another pot. Th« 
i'rencli, who have the reputation of makmi 
the best coff«e, use 3 partH Java, 1 part Moch*. 

Tea— Water for tea .should be freshly heat^ 
ed and ju.t b.iilinK. Teas are of difftring 
^ir.iiglh.'?, but a , afe rule i.s I tea-^poon dry 
l..a to 'is pint b.iiif.jt water. Scald tea-pot; 
put ill dry tea and ov. r for 1 minute. Add 
h.,ilinK' water, cover dofiely. Let Htand 3 to • 
nnnutc.i, Htrain off into second hot pot. A 
v.added c<-;.y will keep tea hot for a long tims 

' the firi:. 



put 



1 li.iurs, then put it 

\ h'Hir:!, or until ten- 

k until it 



pos 1' 
water 
on ' 
dor 

^"^Khubnrh Marmalade 'lake equal l\^^^^^^^\ 
of rhubarb and pineapple. Slice the latter 
very thin and in sir.all pieces, rt-moving t e 
core. Add half the q-an' ' '^''j^'.ut'u 

ICnnu- Hlowlv vmtil tender. He rhuba.b 

a d ut in .'^n ull pi-ce.. Ad l equal quantitieB 
!^f MiF^r and allow it to ttand (.ver mght. 
The^ boil the two to^xetl-er for 20 minute. 



.-, ) 



1'.> bitter 

••, -)id 1 " 

^_ .. >oi! '2 hours. Add nugar 

and boil until it jellies. 
,.=_.rhon fine -i sour apples, add 1 

■ , ; " . ••, 1 '^ cups 
'a teaspoon 

> 1 1 ..r 



MarmRiad(-- 'M:^.-; 

tngcH put " Ici- 
/'Uft'''" ^" *'acti !■! .1 1 ■ 
angc * over nij.'l\t, thi'i 
and l» Hi'iiis, 

A|i!)le <:ct 
beaten 
Indi:.: 
eni' 

ficic; .1 - 
bake in hot. 

Chocolale- 
late, 1 tabif.'n'oon ^iH'^'', 2 
wn': '■■■• ■'■"colale, 1 - 
gni ".ally 1 

cook i'l a>'MMr i-iler 5 n.:: 
to add 1 teaspoon vanilla, 
strongor \>i using mr."- ■•'-■ 

K'ronch Coffee Or. 



(^rea.sed gem-pans. 
-One square unsweetened - \:' 
tablospoon.s 



nil t,)'. 



It c- 

^■tntf 



*hor 



hot 

Mil 



verv fip.e 
bowl; 1- 
let St; 
water '' 
throm'h 
pot, put 

\vi-; .\i;! 



('round c 



ifTee 

■:it. 



' I'm coffee grouiid.s in 
'•; pint cold watt-r and 
tcs; brini' '■ ' '■>J^. 
coffee in i . ■■ '.lio 
■n take Fronch coffee- 
coffee grounds in s-trainer at top 

nu: oNi.v riKM i\ r.\N.\V)\ who :mi;- 



i'lnf ^ ic\ V.\ ihi 



( ocoa— -The usual rule is 1 teaspoon cocoa 
t ) each cup. Mix dry cocoa with little ccl* 
water, add Hcn!<'»'l milk ^r b'.Hiti? wator, acti 
b oil 1 minute. 

I)irertions— Take ."ucn quaniiiy of (lour as 
required for your gri<idle cake.s, and alir inM 
:i .MdTi; i' a milk or water to make a thin be'.,- 
u r. It i.i then ready for the pan. Serve hc-^ 
V. ith sy;up or butter and sugar. 

MiifTin.i iind Corns — Two cups Sweetheart 

• !icake I'lour, P/i cups sweet milk or cold 
. .Iter, 2 or 3 tablespoonfula sugar, 1 teaspoot 
melted butter, 1 egg thoroughly beaten, IJako 
in a quick oven. Muffins in rings on griddls. 
gems in gem pan,'). 

DUMriJNGS. 

Apple Dumplings Royal— One quart ^ouv, 

ilioroughly mix with it .'i tc-i -< baiunB 

powder and a .'^mall teaspoon :b in k 

;>icce of butter or lard the size "i ,,11 i-gg, ane 
t|i"n add 1 niediom potato, crratcd in the flour, ■ 

" . ■ ', '■" ". uAl^. 

' ■ -uit 

douu'h; break o!l pioc. , of doujrn larg>' euougt 

U) close over 4 (pjartcrs of an tipple (or other 

fruit as desired) without rolling, and hiy la 

'-.'-\\ ,;■; h and rtrnm 'it\Ml the fruit ii 



■ar 



1 eggs and 

int milk and 

.v.; and sifted 8 

■ a.-poon salt, and 

i, the" ■■■•'^ moM 

Uul! inch 

' • ' -, .uai fry 

'h it fat. 

ci'Vlioart Flour, 1 



I / < M I (; I i I It 1 : ^ ■ ' I ' . fc ' 

2 cups gramila'ed su^': 

1 quart fl -■- '■ -'''^ '' 

teaspoonH 

1 grated n^ii no j;. i "•<;! "■_. 

i1(.ur to make a soft douirh. 

thJi-k, cut ' ■ ■'" 

l>rown in 

t'orn Ui.'lls — i Wo eu[)s Sv. ci u..^t.. .. . ..^-. , - 

p fine Corn nirnl, l'.-^ cups .^jweet iidlk, pieca 
of butter 1 e sixe of an egg, melted, J 

,.,:,!,. no ■ .ir. and 1 vol! -beaten egif. 

in gem paa. 
■ ;.,i;,:-: -lo.... 1;; ;■.,;: ' ^md dry placa. 

Criddle Cakes— Mi.x thorouvrhly with sweet 
' ' ".-alcr. to a batter, the quantity of 
■1 to use, and bake at once on a 
hot grni^ie. The addition ' ' ^ ?. well-beatea 
efjg.^, arcurdinjj: tti fiuantr; 'ter, wdl .m- 

in'ove the cakes. Milk [3 Liciier than water 
for mi.xing all .=elf 'ai-inc goods. When water 
i.s u.'^ed, a little .sugar or molasses may be a»»i 
to assist in giving a brown color to the caftM. 

1)1 1; MiVKRTISlNC; MO'.'^Y WITH IHK CONSUMER 



I 



• 



IXI, SI'ICE AND COFFEE MILLS., LLMITE P., LONDON. ONT. 



17 



KKilPKS— Continued. 

At.WAVS I HK »\VI:KTIIEAIIT IIHAM) HAhlSfi l-OWDUR, HXTKAt T8 AND 8PI( U 



I 



I 



Kri«-d ('nk«'»» — Two atul a half cups flour, 2 
U>a.iii .'iii> liaUinK puvviler, '2 fup milk, 4 tca- 
iponn httll. 2 cKKH, 1 Hcaiit taliicspoon mcltfd 
butter, 5 Uihli'.spdoria ^uKar. Sift tlry iralorialM 
toRi-thfr. A<lil l)eutc'n t'Kk'«. "lilk. a'xl imUi-d 
bulUT. Drop by Hiiiali spoonfiilH in il(!i'p 
•mol<ing-hot fat, fry browi, drain on unglazeil 
paper. 

Fruit WhoclH — Sift toKcthf r 2 cups flour, 

1 htupintf teaspoon bakinj: po\vil<T, '■» teaspoon 
lait. 1 tahU'!:p()()n fiuirar. Hub in 2 lart,'e 
tabltispooris butter Mix to guft dough with 
milk; nil out li inch thick. Sjirpad tbicklv 
wi' . »«h butter, du.st with 1 tca.npoon flour, 4 
tab -pjoii.s >;raiuiiatc(l su^ar, 1 tca.ipoon cin- 
namon; .sprinkle over ' i cup each of stvJid and 
rut rta in; chopiHvj liiron, t nd cleaned cur- 
rants. K'"ll up, cut ill 1-iiu'li .slices, put 1 inch 
ajmrt on k'' «^''d flat pans, arid bake in hot 
oven. 

Hucklrbrrry Short <"akf Two cupa supar, 
H cup butter, 1 teaf-poon .-all, 1 pint niilk, 2 
heaping teaspoons bakini? powder siftid into 
8 cupK flour, 1 ipiart wa.-^hed and well-drained 
huckleberries, more flour to make a very thick 
bailor. Hako in «rea;^ed d^ippill^,'-pan, break 
In squares, servo hot with butter. 

Dutch ('rull«»r.'< — Two ejrps, I ton.spoon grat- 
ed nutnK'ti:, 1 cup sut-'ar, 1 cup cream, '4 tca- 
■poon .-alt, 1 teasjjoon bakint; powder, sufTi- 
r.iciil fl'iur to mix to a .soft dou!.?h. li dl out, 
cut in .siiuarea, cut several times in centre with 
}a>.Ti<inK-iron; fry brown in kettle of dcpp 
imokinp-hot fat. 

.Mi.K 2 Clips flour, 
salt. 
Arid .Milk to mix to thick batter. Drop by 
Bmall spniinfuls over boilinp >-!ew, and cook 
as in preceding receipt. 

Peach DumplingH, 2 — Rrinp 1 cup water, 

2 table.sjjoon.s butter, to bulling |. • '; ' irn in 
quickly 1 cup dry flour; stir till i: raws 
away from .siib h of pan. Take Ir jiii lue and 
cool. Work in 4 egps, -i cup flour nii.xcd with 
% tea.<5poon baking powder, more flour if nec- 
csi^ary to make a soft doupli. Put (iut in a 
cjike, cut in round.s v.ilh a <<n each 
place a pared, unpitted peu' .w diuph 
round to cov(>r the fruit. I'iace in Rrea.sed 



DumplingH for Htewh, 

1 teaspuon bakinjf powiler, ' j teaspoon 



pan, bru.sh with milk. :i 
moderate oven. .Ser 

Recipes for nuiivii ^ 
or frioa.see frequently 
This i3 a mi'^t.-il- -i- 
heavy, Ht';:,'fry 4rr 
be caused by a ii :: 
steamer before the d 
salt, bakinp powder 
that are needed 
lings of M ■ ' ' 



! akc ."0 minutes in 

clear sauce. 
;..,';iiig.s for a .stew 
all for shortening. 

"•.• •■ "•■ in 



::'• nil i;l p'jl nf 

are done. Flour, 

iVeet ndlk are all 

to make tender fluffy dump- 

TIk,' i 1 dicnts should 



li.'i 



WondorH — Ihree egg.<<, .3 tablespoons melted 
nhorleiiing, H tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon 
baking powder mixed wiih I cup flour. Add 
more flour to make .stiff dough, roll very thm. 
Cut in .'{-iiuh sipiaros; in each cut .several .slita; 
run linger through and separate, then dent 
llu 111. I'ry and roll in sugar. 

DumplingH for StewH~Mix and Hift 1 pint 
flour, 2 teuspoon.s baking powder, '^ tea.spoon 
.salt. Mix to soft dough with loilk. Turn oa 
board, roll out 1 inch thick, cut in small cir- 
(li.i. Iloll each in flour, drtip on top sinimer- 
ag Ktcw. Cover, cook 20 minutes without 
opening pot. 

DumplingH for Siiup— One cup flour, V4 t«»- 
!=poon .'■all, 1 leasiioon baking powder, .sifted 
together. Add '1 cup finely chopped suet, and 
enough milk to make .stiff dough. Hake into 
dunifding.s .«ize cf marble.i, drop into luiup, 
C'lwv, and l)oil 10 minule.i. 

Fgg DumplingH for Soup— Heat 2 egg.s. add 
'1 tea.spoon salt, 2 tablespoons milk. Sift 1 
cup flour with 1 Ecant teaspoon baking pow- 
der, add egir mixture, and iiorc flour if neces- 
.-ary to make thick batter. Drop by half tea- 
spoonfuls in boiling .soup; cover, cook 10 min- 
utes. 

Strawberry Short fake— Pick, hull, wash. 
and drain berries. Sweeten, spread between 
bottom layer.-i of short cake. Garnish top layer 
with lartre whide berries, dust with sugar, and 
.serve with cream or custard. 

Raspberry Short Cake— Prenare as foi 

strawberry short cake. 

( herry Short Cake— Make as for straw- 
berry short cake, using idtted sweet or tart 

cherries. 

Peach Short Cake — Pare and slice peachea. 
riiii-h as for .'Irawherrv shiirt cak». 



a:; 
Hanana 



Short 

■I, ., : 



Peel 

.■I wliC 



and slice ha- 
rry short cake. 
' .llu- — Any canned 
iHil from syiuj), may be used in place 



t' 



then quickly 



le cvjoking the 



be siftc'i ily 

mixed wi'.h tiic nnlk. Dunn 

liquid in pot or steamer should be kept at a 

steady boil. No more liattcr or dough should 

be dropped in at one time than will cover the 

surface of the li(]uid or re?t on top of the 

meat, for, if too many dumplings are dropped 

In at once, those underneath are sure to be 

soggy. The cover should not be lifted until 

the dumplings are done. 

WI-; Al.Ii THK ONIA FIRM IN C.\N.\D.\ WHO SPENJ OUR ADVl^KTl.'^IMi .MO.NKY VVIUI TilK CON.SUMEK 



Cak 

na';;;:. !''ini:h ;•;; f-r 

t'aniM'd rniii -iioit 
fruit, drained f . ,,. ^„ „^^ 

of fie.h fruit, finishing as" for "other short 

cakes. 

Suet lUuiijdinii;. — One cup bread crumbs B 
ta!.|,.-.po.,„.s tin.dy chopped beef suet, whites 
ami yoiks 2 eggs beaten .separately, H tea- 
spoon .salt, 1 tea.spoon baking powder sifted 
with 1 cup flour, sufl'iciont milk to mix to stiff 
pa le. Flour hands and make into balls 
Urmg small cloth.s in hot water, dust with 
n lur, lay ball in each and tic, leaving room to 
,^w..ll. r. (,k in rapidly boiling water 45 min- 
ut. .. a-i,] >.,-'..' with liquid sauce (see sauces). 

.\pple Dumplings, 2— Pa.stc, 2; 6 apples, 
peeled, cored, and sliced, 1 cup sugar. Line 
6 cup.^ will grease;!, with the pa.ste rolled out 
tnin, wot el:'-., '"ii ,,;th apjilcs, some of the 
sugar, cove pa.ste; put in shal- 

low stewpai,. ;..;., .^ .i.Hjgh to contain them, 
with boiling water to reach half way up the 
cup.s; steam thus 45 minutes; turn out 00 
dish, sift sugar over them; serve with B»)ice 
sauce. 

Apple DuiUiJiiiiKs, .1 — Paste, .1; 8 applea, 
peeled and cored, 1 cup sugar. Roll out the 
paste thin, cut into 8 Rijuares of 4 inchot, 
lay on each an apnle with sugar in apertaw 



1 \ I I ■ I ' 



niyiA: .MIM.s. I.I.MnKI». hONlKJN 
KLCU'ES— Continued 



nAd« by e < 'r ('omen of 

••si«, sn<i tint ){ Uti tit it lup of appi* ami 
f*«l«n; ktft Ku^ur ovrr them; lay on baking 
khet-t and bake in ii . Zi nunutin; aerva 

ttith har.l ;.:ri. ir 

Criill' I lart flour, % cup lard, Mi 

tup butu., ; .,. r u^ar, Hi tettspi'ju,'* baking 
powdtir, '4 pint milk, - egK^, 1 li-ttKpoon yx- 
" •' i1(*ur, ttUKar, hnd pow- 
lixiii aiui butler; add 
• • ' r ,iik. Mix Int . 
kK to han 

"■'K-r^n 

itljOUt 



tract iiu*iii< i' 
(i«r lf)i,'i''li.' 
th« < . 

n " 

Ml ' 
fry 
SvrvM V 

koi. . 

89 i 
fldu ■ 
•alt 
lo |i. . 



••: t plain 

T will 

'.. :■ quart 

:; powdur, '■i teaspoon 

' "' d add n "<'t milk 

Hnke ii., iiatiily 

full ^ 111! ti thick 

wtih butter and mapl* 



when hi; 

«yrjp 01 liw(ii.y. 

Cruller^, 4 -One cup Rugar, 3 tablc.ipoonu but- 
ter, 1 cup crcniM, ;< cupH flour niixod with 2 
ttsaMi)0();i<i bakiiij? powder, and hh teaspoon 
■all, ttddiriK cooukU flour to muka s.'ft douj^h. 
Roll out, cut in 2-inch n'luares, and Blash with 
jaiTKinjj-iro.'i. I"ry, drain, ond rull in sujcar. 

f'rullorfi, .1-— i'wo cups brown .lujjar, 1 '2 cups 
buft<>r, 6 eiii:3, li liUliiK-K, Krateil, 2 trnspoons 
baking powder, fluur lo vsdV.ts soft doii";h. Roll, 
eut with ja^Kii'K'ro!), fry au directs 1. 

Berry DuuipiinKs — L'sc burrica of any kind 

aarefully fiii'l-cd, huH!"'] ir prepared, rud inak ; 



at fvir aiihhi <ii;iiij)liiij^.' [)tillii;jj 1 
spocni of berries in each doniphnK 



table- 



SALADS AM) ('IlKiOSE. 
JIayonnr.iae — liu'e d 



i/sry cold If .su;Kiiu;r 
jjundcd ice. In soup 
put yulk 1 r.iw .•■'.' ,; 1 
da;h cayon' 

ff'W drops \\ 

till very thick. Ad 
itir; add nnwn oil, {■ .. 
niixlurfi balls on fork 
lemon juice or •■'•■■■ •'• 
Altoriiato in tlii 
uacd ar. 1 d!i' • : 
jeUy, A:.. ■: :. 
vlMt'(.,'iir wiii 
ity, AUvay 
roveti'd Mtui 
TotHto S". 
dre.ssiii;: 
ar Icni-: 
juice. I'oar over diced 
hot. V.'hcn '•■lid .civf •. 
nain.! k-.i . 
sliced ha; i I-..:. .; .^„ 

minutes; .shell uiui --ut 
Boil .? or 4 potat'. , i> 
fit (.'(iji.s af.d ai!d ^ ,1 ■ 



i.slu'S and ir.ffredicnta 

, set dish i;i pan of 

jilale or Bhallnw bowl 

.! '. tc.r-.''.i,,ii salt and 

> - and a 

. . ., .,; .: V. i;h furk 

.op.i olive oil and 

- i ^ at a time, until 

Thin with fi.'W drops 



M 



■■-'. 

■ lie 

•■,; unti 

-Make 

when c 

a-r ad 



a ■'•oriiir l; i > :•' 
:.ixmo direclii.n. 

! needed 
'■■ a:n..';:;' .>f 

old, thin V. 

vl '.' lahii'.'^ii 



ve oil. 

"'•I is 

like a 

r 2 of 

aciiv- 

Kerp 



boiled 
1 vinepar 
ns onion 



hii!p(i pota'oe.s while 

iMl \v;i'er T, ■■> or field 



■IS an J 



fine with .-ui. tr kni'i'. 
ice while hot, mix with 
H dre.ssinf;. Let st;uul 



wutorcren witk 
boiled dreminf 



till . . , .,' 

mors i' reiicti drt-.-.MinK or 
thinned with vinepar. 

llorhe-rndiNh Sauce— Crcatn 2 tablrnpiioiu 

t»u"' ' • ■ " " ••'' ' n.i fre.>«h K'nvted horaa- 

r"! y thick cream, Mb tas 

Hp.- ., . (:, ... J.,,. ... ivi ep vry cold. 

.Mint Sauce- One cup chopped k'reen rninl 
l<.ivc;<, '.J ,■ 'rir. 1^ cup powdored augar. 

Mix 1 liou.' .sen'ing. 

oinato .s.il.iil -I'are with rharp knifa. Site* 
lay in :.alad bowl. M.ike dre.ssinjj ai fol 
lu'.'.'.,: Work up j,alt.'poon each of .salt, p«pper, 
and fre>;h nimie inuitard with 2 tablespoons gf 
talad oil, adding only a ftfw drops at a linia, 
«■"!, when th iro-: ■■ !v t.,i.fd, whip in wilh as 

'■ I'Pateii, t viiiigar; toss 

-.1 ■ furk. 



ap 



i< e - HI'.-vvly cook 1 taLle-ipooa 
•"'' ■'! in 1 talili-spoon butter ,> niinuict 

*' '<'!»?• Add 1 tea.ijjoon curry pow 

d' r, ;;,..k J iiiiuutea, add 1 cup whila sauea 
'" '"k 2 minutes lonjter. 



SANIJVVICHES 



Mam SandwitlH-a — M..kv a drebning of half 
a cup of butter, otiC latWe;ipuonful of mix«d 
mu.siard, ono of salad on. t littla r«d or whita 
p'.'jiper, a pincli , f i,alt and tlie yolk of an egg; 
rub tho butter lu a creain, add tno otUer in- 
gredients and mix thoroughly; then sur In «/« 
much chopped ham as -.viJl make it conai'.en., 
and spread between tliin slices of bread. Omit 
salad oil and .substitute butter, if prepared. 

Ilam Sandwiches, IMain— Trim the crusU 
from thin blices of bread; butter llie.n, and 
between every two uome thm .slicej of cold 
boiled liam. Spread tho meat with a littls 
muutard. if liked. 

Mayonnaise .Sandwich — Take nice cri.ip let- 
tuce leave:;, lay on .lice thin slices of bread and 
place a tablespoonful of nice Mayonnaise 
dres.sing upon each. The.s^ mu.st be p;epare<i 
ju.st bef.)re u.siuK'. Cho|.ped chicken or any de- 
t red meat may be ad.li'd 



CI, 



leu Sandwi( i 



~-e uf fine any cold 
boiii-J or roast cliici.eo, p-.: it into a aauce-pan 
with >rravy, water or croam enough to iioften 
it; add a good piece of uuUer, a pinch of pep- 
per; work it vei-y ■ ooih while it in heating 
until it looks almost like pa.-te. Then spread 
it on a [ila;e to cool. Spread it between slices 
of hia'.iTCiJ bread. 

Sardine Sandwiches — Take two boxes uf 
sardines, and throw the contents into hot 
water, havinir first drained away all the oil. 
A few minutes will free the sardines from 



!' 



olJi.J 



10 

[i.i.-te; add pepper, s^'t 
lettuce and .spread 



water and dry the 

■ ■ .vav the rkins, and 

• till redu.-ii to 

tiny picc.-f oi 

. .viclies, which 

ive been previously cut as above. The let- 
f.ice add.s very much to tho flavor of the aar- 
dine.'i. Or c!:up tr.e .-ardinci \:p nae and 
snnoeze a few drops of lemon-juice into them 
x'ld snread between buttered bread or cold 
biscuits. 



/(. 



v.i; Ai;i-: iiii: oni. 



A)\ 



WlVi SVKSV Ot'U .\DVKKTISING MONI';Y WITH THE CON.-^I'MER 



IXL SI'K t AM) COl'i'KE MILLS, MMITKI). I.ON'DO.V. ONT. 



!•• 




/(. lOo — 1 coupon 

CKLKRY SALT 

Celery Salt is made from Pure Celery Seed 
fround with fine table ealt. Makea an appetit- 
Inf flavor for soups, sauces, etc. 




S^VEETHEARl' 
PULVERIZED 

Tumeric 



MANl FACTLRKD n^ 

IXL Spice &Coffe8Mil!5 

LONDON, ONURIO 



10c — 1 coupon 

PULVERIZED TUMERIC. 

Tumeric Root is pulverized and put in pack- 
ttg*i- Used for coloring ciiow ciiow, mustard 
Vickies, etc. 



l5 



1$: 



?; 




pfCK 
SPI 



c:: 



SWEETHEART BRAND PICKLING .101 

Is seletted from the best sp es th* cr*« 
Thorouifhiy cleaned by our nt •» varuu. sfs- 
lem, it i» entirely free from dy^t and dirt. A 
freat improvement will be noted in pirV: >■ 
chow cho»i' etc., if our pickling spice is 



RECirES— Continued. 

Watercress feandwiche.t -Wash well se^ • 

wat.ercres!i, md tht;n 4ry Ihcin in a clo 
pres.sing oui very atom of moi: '..re, aa far 
pos.sible; th. mix with the cresses har 
boilod e^iXa ch uped fine, and spasjned with sa' 
and pepper, iiave a stale luaf ar,d some fres 
butter, and w: h a sharp knife cut as ma: 
thin slices as aiII be required for two doien 
sandwiches; tt^.<;n cut the cress into small 
pieces removin • the sterns; place it betweoa 
each slice of b ead and butter, with a slight 
sprinklinp of emon-juice; pre.<3s down the 
slices hard, anu out them sharply on a board 
into small squar , leaving no crust. 

—Boil 1 pint of peas and I 

ift. Mas-h throuph a colan- 

and add a ,'^mall piece of 

I iK.r iu ta te, and enourh 



(ireen Pfa So; 

larpe pota' - till 
der, water and a 
buttvir, salt and 
milk to thin 



Pickled Onion.") 
pod and put in a 



Take *4 peck small onion*. 

'Ut 1 cup salt. Pour over 
enough boi!in(» wa^^^r to cover the onions. L«t 
stand one nigh,;, crain, and repeat the ne«t 
night. Then cove- with coid, sharp vinega* 
and spice, using v/. ole spice Let them staa4 
a week before using. 



WE ARE THK O'.'ILY FIRM IN C.XNADA WHO SPEN') OrU AnVKRTISIv; 



VnY WITH TIIR rONSr.MER 



IXL SriCE AND COFFEE MILLS, LIMITED, LONDON, ONT. 



• 



RECIPES— Continued. 

ALWAYS USE 8WKETHKART BKAND BAKING POWDEK. EXTHACTS AND SPICES 



WV. AUI 



by washiiiK it with a little vinegar and water, 
or even plain warm water, the cream used to 
obtain a polish would have a much better sni 
nu>i'(' lastiriiT effect. 

Excellent C'ouKh Mixture — One cup of rum, 

1 cup of honey, 1 cup of lemon juice, 1 ounce 
(jf Kl.vcerine; ini.x well, bottle, and take 1 tea- 
.spodii when cough i.s trouble.some. 

Cure for Coughs — (Old-fashioned) — Thre« 

newly laid eggs, unbroken, over which pour 
tlie juice (if lemons, and allow to stand for 
AH hours. 'J'hcn pick out any bits of eggshell 
that are not dissolved, add 'i pound of rock 
candv, and I pint of Jamaica brandy, mix well 
and buttle. Dose: 1 tablespoon three or four 
times a day. 

I'(. Clenn White Ostrich Feathers — Four 
(lunccs of white soap, cut small, dis.solved in 
four pints of ratlur hot water. Wash the fea- 
thers thoroughly in Ihe lather, rinse in hot 
water, and shake until dry. 

Save old kid gloves for ironing day. Sew a 
pad made from the left glove on to the palm of 
the right one, and you will find your hand la 
saved from becoming blistv-red, tvhile the fing- 
ers and the back of the hand will be protected 
from the scorching heat which is so damaging 
to the skin. 

Ink Spots on Leather may be remored by 
several applications of a weak solution of 
oxalic acid. Apply with a camels' hair brush, 
and after a few minutes wipe off. 

To .Mend Hot Water Bags apply several 
coats of liquid court-plaster to the holes, al- 
lowing each coat to dry before adding the 
next. The result will be waterproof and not 
affected by hot water. 

To Remove Scorch From Colored Goods — 
When pressing a colored dress and you have 
the misfortune to scorch it, take a silver coin, 
lay it flat on the scorched part and rub it 
briskly, and you will find the scorch disap- 
pears. 

If in Cleaning a kitchen stove the black-lead 
used is mixed with a little methylated spirit 
instead of water, the labor of polishing is a 
iroixl (leal reduced and the result is particular- 
ly brilliant. 

Dish Cloths do not get the attention they 
should, and in many houses are dirty and quite 
unfit for use. After washing up, always soap 
tho dish cloth well, and then rinse in hot water 
wiMi ^'■..\:\ ill it. Rinse au-ain in hot water, and 
haPLr it ^11 tl'e air to dry. 

Cut Flowers — To keep the water fresh and 

sweet in va^H's of cut flowers, add to it a small 

" w.'ai-. This is successful even in the 

-■,1,-h blooms as wallflowers. 

Ironing Handkerchiefs beo-in in the 

When the edges are ironed first, the 

of the handkerchief is apt to swell 

up like a balloon, making it difficult to iron 

the whole properly. 

To Remove a I.nbel from a Jar or Bottle ii 
often rather difficult. This plan is always sac- 
cessful: Wet the label thoroughly, and then 
hold it near a fire for a moment. The steam 
thus generated immediately acts on the paat« 
or rum. 

THK ONl7v'l-lUM IN^ C.\N.\DA WHO Sl'ENI) OlIK AnVKRTlSlN<; M0NI2Y WITH THE CON.SUMER 



PICKLES AM) CATSUI'S. 

Chili Sauce — Chop 12 large ripe tomatoes, 2 
• aions, 2 .imuil red peppers, 4 tablespoons 
iugar, 2 tablespoons salt, 'i small cups vinegar, 
8 sour apples, 1 teaspoon each of ginger, cin- 
namon, cloves, nutmeg. Boil 4 or ."> hours. 
Drain off part of liquor fi-om tomatoes before 
boiling. 

Tomato Pickles— (Grern)— Half peck green 
tomatoes, ordinary sized onions, ?, green pep- 
pers. Slice and place them alternately with 
the sliced tomatoes in a deep flish. with a layer 
of salt between. Leave tin m all nigiit. Next 
morning strain off water, then take 1 lb. white 
sugar and all sorts of spices, put in preserving 
kettle, and cover with vinegar. Boil until 
quite soft.' 

Potato Souffle Take 2 cups cold mashed 
potato and stir into it 2 tablespoons melted 
Dutter, beating to a white cream before add- 
ing anything else. Then put with this 2 eggs 
whipped very light and a teacup of cream or 
milk, salting to taste. Beat all well, pour into 
a deep dish, and bake in a quick oven until 
it is nicely browned. If properly mixed, it will 
come out" of the oven puffy and delectable. 

T»mat:> Soup — One tin tomatoes, 1 quart 
stock, 1 gill milk or cream, 1 ounce batter, 1 
ounce flour, pepper and salt. Boil together 
the stock and tomatoes 15 minutes, then rub 
them through a sieve, melt the butter in a 
sauce-pan, stir in flour and strained stock, 
boil 2 minutes, allow the boil to go off, then 
add cream, and do not allow to boil again or 
the cream will curdle. 



THINCS WORTH KNOWING 

When ironing between buttons on a blouse 
place the buttons on a folded Turkish towel. 
The button will sink into the towil. and the 
spaces between them will be ironed beautiful- 
ly smooth. 

Lamp chimneys should not be wa.shed, as 
this makes the glass brittle, but if held for a 
moment over a stmniing tea-kettle and then 
polished with a >ofi. dry cloth, the result will 
be all that coulil Ix- desired. 

To extract onion juice, press the raw surface 
of an onion agair.st a grater, move it slightly, 
and the juice will run off the point of the 
jfrater. 

Frying on a (Jas Slme iiu olves a certain 
amou"nt of gna>e being s;i'itUMc.l on to the 
wall by the stoVe. It is a good plan, thereforu|, 
to geta piece of oi! bai/.e, and with it "paper" 
th" wall, f r t'-.is is easy to clean with hot 
water and soap on a flannel. To apply the 
hairo, brush over the back of it with some 
flour pa.ste made vvith boiling water, then, 
having placed the baize in position, smooth 
it on to the wall v;\ih a clean do-^tnr. 

Clean Furniture Before Polishing It— Few 

people apparently think of washing their pol- 
ished furniture. Yet if the dirt were removed 



111' ■'] '■ 
r:i: e it' 
When 
mi. Idle, 
niiddl 



20 



an 



CO 

lo< 
pij 

to 
pa 

ru 

m 

WE 



# 



IXL SPICE AND COFFEE MILLS. LIMITED, LONDON, ONT. 

Sherlock- Manning Piano 



21 



20TH (ENTIRY STYLE 



FULL SEVEN AND ONE-THIRD OCTAVES 




No. 2345 



Full iron plate, latest model perfection, double repeating action, so constructed 
fefl to insure absolute stability and uniformity of touch; equipped with patent 
trapwork, noiseless, mouse proof, three pedals. This may be obtained in Mahog- 
any, Oak or Walnut. 

now TO GET THIS SPLENDID PIANO 

Only 00,000 coupons required, or 10.000 coupons and $150.00 cash, or 5,000 
eoupons and $185.00 cash. 

This piano is equal to any $.350.00 pi:iju-, on the market. Notice how easily a 
lodge, a school room, or a Sunday School, or other organizations, can secure thia 
piano FREE. 

We manufacture a large variety of GOODS. Each package contains from on« 
•o three coupons, according to size or weight; 150 families, each using only 26 
packages of our goods per month will secure this piano within nine months abso- 
hitely FREE of charge, or 150 farnilics, each Using 10 (.ackagcs uf our GOODS per 
month, together with a Cash payment of $150.00, will secure piano in seveu 
months. 



WE ARE THE ONLY FIRM IN CAN.XUA WHO SPEND OUR AUVEF^TISING MONEY WITH THE CONSUMER 



HIMCIO AM) COM ilK Mll.l.S, LIMITED, LONDON, (JNT. 



The Chatham Kitchen Cabinet 



1 ■ 



A 



ii 



No. 2346 



A Kitchen Cabinet saves steps. It 
takes the place of the Pantry and the 
table for nearly everything you na* in 
cooking a meal, or baking bread, cfclcaa 
or pics. 

When you look at this Cabinet yas 
can see at a glance that— 

It means houru of time saved to •T«T'y 
housekeeper. 

It mean."? the saving of mile! O'f w»lk 
ing in a hot kitchen. 

It means rcXwi from ki'r'rcn diudg«:y 

It ncans less reaching and stoupin.; 

It means ff';;ih and full strenifth food 
Bupiilics. 

It means freedom from dust, .. 
flies, mice and rats, etc. 

Tl:i3 Cabinet was designed by s 
woman who knows a housewife's need? 

Knowing that every family should 
have one of these Kitchen Cabintila, we 
are giving our custoinerH an excsptioniti 
chance to secure a $25 Kitchen Cabinet 

Regular selling price is $25.00. HOW 
TO SECURE IT FREE. Only 4,000 
coupons required, F. 0. li. factory. 



A RARE OPPORTUNITY THIS 

Only 829 coupons and $12.00 cash, or '117 coupons and $17.00 cash, or 211 
coupons and $1S.00 cash. 

DON'T LET THIS GO BY 



RECIPES— Continued. 



When marble basins and other marble-lined 
articles are neglected ui.til yellow stains have 
b«en allowed to appear on them, muriatic acid 
has to be used to remove them. Shut the 
water from the ba.^in. and dry the marble well. 
Tie a rag to the end of a small stick, dip it 
into the acid, and with it touch the stain, and 
immediately the spot will disappear. Put 
water into the basin at on -e upon the disap- 
pearance of the stain, and then scrub the basin 
with soap and water. When anplying the acid 
be careful not to get it on the metal about 
the basin, as it will destroy the plating. Do 
aot got it on the liands, nor drop it on your 
ahoea, nor get it on your clothing, as it will 
destroy them. 

For Black I'etticoats — Sew a white bias fold 
about one and one half inches wide, around the 
inside of the belt. It will prevent the corset 
cover or corsets from potting soiled. 

To Prevent a P:'ot sir Slioe Frotn S!ii)!)ing at 
the Heel— Cum a lii'lo i'lcce of vdvel on the 
inside of the slme. This will n.ake it cling to 
the storking and prevent it from slipping. 

Fer Ca!lou.ses on the Feet — For a callous on 
the bottom of the foot, bind on cttton wool, 
wet with olive oil, and it will soon disappear. 

(^ rnu. — S' ■■' ■■ " '"' ' .iTV day in warm 

water, to w; '\ and baking soda 

has been adu';'!. ani in ;ii' 'iit a week the corn 
can be picked out. 

\VE~AUK THE ONLY KIUM IN C.\N.\n.\ WHO Sl'KN'I) Ofl! .NDVEUTISING MONKY WITH TtU-: CONSt.'.MKR 



A Cure for Warts — For all kinds of was^ 
saturate an ounce tf alcohol with salicylic a>-<4 
and add fifty drops of castor oil. A^ply it 
often and within a week the warts will dis- 
appear. 

Biting Finger Nails — A child may be broken 
cf biting its finger nails by dipping the flnKrer 
tips occasionally in bitter aloes or quinine. 

l''or Fainting — Loosen the clothing, bathe th« 
temples with cold water admit plenty of fresh 
air, and apply a hot water bag to the feet. 

To Clean a Discolored Copper Kettle — Wask 
♦he kettle in strong soap suds with soda, and 
let it stand in this for a couple of hours. Then 
t.-ike some fine coal ash (sift the ash) mixed 
v.iih paraffin into a paste, and with it scour 
the kettle. This treatment will soon make 
the copper as bright ."j when new. 

To Clean White Felt Hats—Milliners use 
the soft inner part of a stale loaf of whit* 
bread. It does the work erfecily. 

To Renovate Black Silk— Sponge with cold 
tea to which a little ammonia has been added 
t:.:n iron on the wrong side with a moderately 
!: a iron. 

To Remove Grease Marks — Grease marks on 
pa^-es of books mav be feiii.ned Dy SpOfiglBf 
thi'in with benzine, placing the pages betweea 
.'^ Ingots of blotting-paper, and pressing with a 
v.aim iron. 





%X 



'^: \ 






(. 



wi; 



IXL SPICK AXI) roKFKK Mll.i.S, l.l.MITK!*, LONDON, OXT 



23 



Top Buggg 




'^^^Vx^M/iV 



^•^T^ 



No. 2847 



Nobby End Spring Top Buggy, made by W. J. Thompson 
k Son, London. Trimmed in lo.-ithor or whifKord. No piec« 
work employed. Best material. All hand madt'. 

ALL WORK GUARANTia:!) TWO YF.ARS. 

1.3,000 coupons will seciin.' thi.-^ hu.c-jry. or !'"> c'lipons 

a!!d !?trj.on cosh. 



Bicgcle 



Dunlop pattern, dolaohable tiros, new depaf- 
ture brake, mud guard-!, roller chain, 3-coil sprinf 
i\saddle. adjustable forward .'xfensiwn handle bars, 
Vnickel-plated steel rims. Complete with tool bftf 
and tools, and [jurr.p, fnamcllcd black and nicely 
!--j. :'.48. striped. 

\,QO0 c.-»up<ins, or LOGO coupons and $20.00, or '00 coupons and .$25.00 





MILL KOU THE nousEiioi.n 



This iit our new mcthcid 

This Coffee Mill is just 
the thinp for h(>ii';'>h.i!d 

.. V."h.-t: "■/":■• ..-id 

11 tcruiiuaiiy !■■ . • its 
-jtrciigth. By si:^ 'lii: ■..' ,'i.i.' 
of these Mills you have a 
C'lnvcnieiU place fnr ktpp- 
iti); your cotTi'e and \o'j 
o.ui j_';-iiid it as yoj n:e it, 
[\ri^ relaiiiii'i: it.s full 
= ;.'"tM!>jlh. 

100 coupof..-*. or 'io coupons 
arui oOc ca.-ih. 



MILL FOR THE OKiXr.ll 



Colipuna 

in 

Hulk 

(ioods 




Wheels, 
17 in. 

\V..i».'hl. 
fid 1(.3. 

licipht. 
24 in. 



This 
auitahle 
grocer. 



Mill 
for 



li 
any 




,:60 



1,800 coupons, or 100 coupons snd I'J 00 eaai 



Beautiful Pearl 
I'endant. Guaran- 
UI^-^ teed Solid Gold. 
■^^M*^/ 4<L Makes a (Tiarming 

^te^ Gift 



No 2;s:)2 

MASONIC (TL\RM 
(;.?!(l-Filled 

.^)0n cou;'.i)n.v, or 50 
Coupons and $2.50 cash 

No. 2 ;','.)•', 

MASONIC CHARM 

.Solid Cold 

LOOO roupoii-^, nr 100 
coupons and $5.00 cash 



\vi; \!;i: t 



HF ONLY FIRM IN C-\N.\n\ WHO SPEND OIK .\I)\ KU llSiXd MONKY WITH IKF, ( ONSl'.MER 



IXI, SFICE AND COFKEK MILLS, LLMITEI), LONDON, ONT. 



VOFJ.MAlt WASHING MACHINE 

The jiriiiciple of this machine is 
prc.-uii' and njl)biiiiar. The opera- 
tion is substantially that of hand 
washing. The clollies are placed 
between two corr unrated rubbing 
boards, which squeezes them to- 
Keliier. It is not the cheapest 
washer, but is superior to aii 
others. 

1.2(;0 roiipon-, or 50 courions and 
$5.7.1 cash. 



.Ma 



tiiiaii it Ward (' 



Londo*. 



IDKAL WASHING MACHINE 

liuller gearinj,', ball-bearing, ro- 
tary Wa.-liitig .Machine. 

The tub is made of Cyprus, hand- 
somely finished. Has a large bal- 
ance w heel and silent running gear. 
The machine is simi)le, strong, dur> 
able and light running. 

1,200 coupons, or 50 coupons an< 
$5.50 cash. 



No. 'l:V-)\ 
SEIJ -ITLIJN(; 1 1)1 NTAIN PEN 

J !k. gold point. — 100 coupons, or 50 coupon., and $2.00 cash. 

No 
SELF-F[MJN(; FOUNTAIN PEN 

(io!d fcrrul. s. 700 coupons, or 50 coupons and $3.50 cash 

No. 230fi 
PECFT-AR FFE!1 FOFNTAIN PEN 

'*'•''■'''" '-'""' 'r 25 coupons and $].()0 cash. 

KECiPES —Continued. 



^Vjf^''\'^ ''/■ ; •^e,|..,waor mixed ready and the white .,f an egir 
^f.f.,;"- /,^'"''^ "^ ""i^''-^ ';^''," rt'iiove .^tains bru<h f h-^- n-U'r -^ with t>v%' 



aht. 

suite. 

Remedy 

shoe cr bo 
fens, thu.'! 
the wear. : 
iealh' r .. ' 
Bfsa V,. 1 
found 

To ('ever Ja;,!.- aad JdlicH — Or.p of the bo=it 
ways of covorin.tj janm f.n.i f.lliox. .«„ li-.., ■ 
U)e_y will keep woU. i.s ;(, jars <^ 

•oon AS U:cy aro fiilc<i i a:iors i.i. 



' Hard*' nod ■ 

:a.s hi'cn wi : .. , , 

■t verj' unconif.irtable V 
■\\. r,r. , ..,,, ,1.;^^ rub th--' 

: the hard 

•■■ %vi!l b: 



• beaten. 

' e eK«, 

'rii.'i de 

. , , ' ■ ) mould, 

:i..^! ai;,..- Uiii t'ui,' .su (juR-kly ihai it is hermet- 

ii'aily .--in led. 

lo I'l'tKiiate niacU \\\A (,'lf>ves — Mix to- 
hrr .<ri;i; q-.'a ];; i ' i,-s -,f v.hi't. ,-,r txry, hiack 

'- "I'f.S OB 

■ * -...,....;. ,i to th« 

'■;-''"-'l !•«' ' soft flannel. Kid 

■- ^i.'.s r;;ay ,,; ij,,, san;o way. 

■ " ^ '<'••'' ape a little pipe-clay on 

- :'^''" '" '■■ •■■'"'■• a stifT brush. 

,.""• -^-A non-inflam- 

; ':::iR- in alut* 
ahjni in a gxl- 



•Vi:iMISI.\(, MONKV Wiia -||!K CUNSl .Mh;R 



IXL SPICE AM) COFKEK MILLS. LLMITED. LONDON, ONT 



25 




■f-MHI^,^" 


^^tmr% 


_.^ 


t ' 't"* ■^ 








^ f' ' 







No. 2386 

MANTLE CLOCK 

Hour and half hour strike on gong. Fancy enaineled case 
1,200 coupons, or 100 coupons and $6 cash 



No. 2387 
AMERICAN ALARM 

CLOCK 
250 coupons, or 26 
coupons and 75c cash 



No. 2388 

TATTOO 
INTERMITTENT 
ALARM CLOCK 

500 coui)ons, or 61 

coupons and $L5# 

cash 




No. 2389 

CENTS' WATCHES 

Gold-Filled Ca.ses 

2,000 to 5,000 coupons, or 100 
coupons and $10 to $25 cash 

No. 2390 

GENTS' WATCHES 
Nickel Cases 

200 to 2,000 coupons, or 50 
coupons and $1.00 to $10.00 cash 

No. 2391 

LADIES' WATCHES 
Gold-Filled Ca.ses 

1,500 to 5,000 coupons, or 100 

coupons and $8.50 to $25.00 cash 

$1.25 cash 




\\ 






#^1^ 



^ ■ 



'^.1r■ 




No. 2397 
TIE PINS 

10k. solid gold set with 
real pearls; large variety. 
400 coupons, or 50 coupons 
and $2.00 cash. 



No. 2398 
CUFF LINKS 

Large assortpient, solid 
gold and real cut diamonds. 
200 coupons, or 50 coupons 
and $1,00 cash 




No. 2399 

FOBS — Assorted designs, for ladies and gents, 200 coupons, or 50 coupon* 
and $1.00 cash. 



WE ARE THK ONT.Y FIRM 1\ fVXADA WHO SI'KND OIK AnVFHTISl.Ni; MONKY WITFI THE CONSUMER 



26 



■I'ICK AM) COKFKK MIIJ.S. MMITKI). I.OXDOM, OXT, 



") 



'4 ■ 



No. 2100 
SOLID GOLD ROPE NECK ( HAIN»— 

16»X,-in., good quality.— 700 coupons, or 61 
coupon.s aiid $3.r)0 ca.^h. 



No. 2401 

(iOLD-I II.LED ROPE CHAINS— 1«V^- 

in. — .'100 caipoiKs, or 50 coupons and |1.5i 
cash. 

No. 2402 
GERMAN SILVER MESH BAG 

250 coupons, or 50 coupons and 



c^'^' 6 $1.25 cash. 

No. 2403 

GERMAN SILVER MESH BAG— Good quality. 

500 coupon.s or 100 coupon.? and $2.50 cash 




■flWF« 




No. 2-J04 I No. 2406 

c,3^^x.;ln'^»IS:A'"^ ^^^- I LADIES' STONE SET BIRTHDAY 
SK.NLf RINGS, many | kinG— Any color stone. 



patterns. 

300 C(..upon?, or 50 
coup(;ris and $1.50 cash 

No. 2405 

(;!:N TS' lOk. SIGNET 
RINiiS. 

1.000 coupnils, or 100 
coupiiDs and $5.00 cash 



300 coupons, or 50 coupons and 
$1.50 ca.sh 



No. 2407 
JEWEL BOXES— Good quality. 
200 coupons, or 50 coupons and 
$1.00 cash 



No. 2408 

INVISIIM.E CATCH BRACELET 
Gold fillr-d. <iuali1y finarantoed. 
700 coU' ' r-.r^, <v ioO coupons and 
$3.50 c:vh 



.H-wwi m I iwW^PiW^—w w^^— <»y 




No. 2409 
EXPANSION BRACELET, with or without locket top. 
300 i'iijj.i !is, or 50 coupons and $1.50 cash. 



No. 2410 
LOCKET — Top set with .stones. 1,200 coupons, or 100 coupons and $6.50 cask 



\VK \1{K IH!: n\] \ \;\:\\ i\ . \nmi\ who Si'KNliorR Mi\i:KriSl\i; MONKY WITH TiU': rOXSI'MKK 



IXL SPICK AN'I) COFFEK MII.I.S. I.I.Mll Kl •. LONPON. 



27 



AINS— 

I, or 5t 



d |1.5t 



Open Stock (Rina 



AG 
4 



rHDAY 

and 



ty. 

And 




,50 casli 



•ONSfMKK 



No. 5805 

Article No. coupons each 

No. 2353— Tea Sets, 40 pieces 900 or 50 coupons and $4.50. 

No. 2354— Dinner Sets, 97 pieces 3,000 or 100 coup(;ns „nd $15.00. 

Coupons Coupons Coupons 

Article. Per Doz. Or Per ',^ Doz. Or Per Vi Doz. Or 

seal— Piates, SVa-in 25 coupons 25 coupons 26 coupont 

450 and $2.2.-. 225 and $1.15 115 and 60c 

I85»— Plate.-?; 7',2-in 25 coupons 25 coupons 25 coupont 

350 and $1.75 175 and 00c 90 and 45c 

ig67— Plates, 6»,^-in 25 coupons 25 coupons 25 coupon* 

300 and $1.50 150 and 75c 75 and 40c 

1868— Plates. 5 Mi -in 25 coupons 25 coupons 25 coupont 

200 and $1.00 100 and 50c 60 and 26c 

8859— Soup Coupes 25 coupons 25 coupons 25 coupont 

400 and $2.00 200 and $1.00 100 and 50c 

8860— Fruit Saucers 25 coupons 25 coupons 25 coupont 

180 and 90c 90 and 4.5c 45 and 26c 

2861— Teas, Kenniss 25 coupons 25 coupons 25 coupoBt 

400 and $2.00 200 and $1.00 100 and 50e 

8862— Teas, Ovide 25 coupons 25 coupons 25 coupont 

400 and $2.00 200 and $1.00 100 and 50c 

2868- Cream, 2T 25 coupons 2.") coupons 25 coupont 

400 and $2.00 200 and $1.00 100 and 50c 

•^864— Sugars 25 coupons 25 coupons 25 coupont 

800 and $4.00 400 and $2.00 200 and $1.00 

3865— Mustards 25 coupons 25 coupons 25 coupont 

250 and $1.25 125 and 65c 65 and 36c 

9366— Chocolate Cups and 25 coupons 25 coupons 25 coupont 

Ss'Jcrrs 400 and $2.00 200 and 51.00 100 and 60c 

8367— Salts and Peppers 25 coupons 25 coupons 25 coupont 

160 and 80c 80 and 40c iO and 20e 

J868— Breakfast Cups and 25 coupons 25 coupons 25 coupont 

Sa;-!cen; 560 and $2.80 2S0 and Jl.JO UO and 70c 

2369— Bouillion Cups and 25 coupons 25 coupons 25 coupoat 

Saucers 560 and $2.80 280 and $1.40 110 and 70c 

Anything on this list is splendid quality and exceptional value. Should »ny piece r*t 

broken or lost at any time within ten years you can have it replaced at once at above pricM. 

\\V. .MUC THE OXI.V FIRM IN CAXAIW WHO SPEND OIU A 1 iVKIiTlsi .W , yu7sV.\~\\V\n I HK TT^NSiTmER 



28 



IXI, SPICE AND COFFKE MII.I.S. 



SEE COUPON LIST 



/I9^* 








^m . ■ pi 




-'f^i 



L'liil'i-ella Staii'l ami .fanliniiTe 



Choi-olatf Set. 




Shavir.K Set 






(ila-,^ !;• trv How] 




Biscuit Jar. 



r" 



^.A jmt Mlf I 



I 



2007 

Mouth Organ. 










cj::^ 



2062 

Tea Set. 




l-"ruit and Flower 
.Stand. 






20^5— Water Set. 



WE .Ma: i|(l-: ON'I.V I'IKM IN CANADA WHO SPENU Ori< An\ KiniSI NC MDNKV WITH THE I'ONsr.MEF 



IXL SPICE AND {"()^"I••K^: MIIJ.S, MMITKI), LONDON. ONT. 



29 



Open Stock 0ina—(ontinuedr 

No. .'H05 

Aiti(l«- No. coupons 

I'iich Or 

2.170 F'latters, Ki-iii ino 25 coupons and 

2'^'^'— " 1--"' '.') 25 coupons and 

2''7'^' - " ll-in .. ;;;)0 25 coupons and 

2'''"'' " ""-in .. .'(.no 25 coupons and 

2373 — Covered Dishes, oval or roun.l L'.'iO 25 coupons and 

2374 — Sauce Roats and Stands 1 )0 25 coupons and 

2375- -Sauce Tureen 2:i() 25 coupons and 

2376— Salads SO 25 coui)ons and 

2377— IJakers, 8-in. SO 25 coupons and 

2378— r^)wls ;,(, 25 coupons and 

2379— Cake Plates ,;,) 25 coupons and 

2380— Spoon Trays 10 25 coupons and 

2381 -r,.l,.iy Trays -0 25 coupons and 

2382--Chocolate I'ots I \„ 25 coupons and 

238r^ -Beautiful Decorated Jardinierts 2011 25 coupons and 

'I hcM- j'o'HJs an/ exceptional value and any .vintrle piece can t>e replaced at any time 

ing ten '• u^nal pii-e. 



50e 

K5c 

$t.l5 

$1.75 

$1.15 

70c 

$1.15 

40e 

40e 

25f 

30t 

20r 

<(0c 

70c 

$1.00 

dur- 






SUMER 



( ouporis whicii have heen issued by uh to date of this cataloifue will apply on thla 

Premium List. 

List of Premiums 

No. Article No. Coupons, Or 

JOOO— .Spiee Caljinet. .M..-t u.-efui arlide for the home. Holds 

six kinds of s[)ice-: 50 10 coupons and B»e 

2001 — Lady's China Clip and Saucer, beautifully decorated... 25 5 coupons and 15e 

2002 — (icnt's Ctiina (11;. :i:i.l Saucer, hoautifully decorated... 25 5 coupons and 15c 

200.'! ChiM's .Miir, iM'ai.urulJy drr,,,;,! i-d 25 5 coupons and 15e 

2001 -St' ( 1 Ki!i\L's 25 5 coupons and 15e 

200,')— Ciuna (up an(; Sa^i -rr, luafly decorated .'J5 10 coupons and 20c 

2000 — Spoons, first (piality ahiinimun. 'i dozen 35 10 coupons and 20c 

2007— Boy's Mouth Ortnm .'{.5 10 coupons and 20c 

2008 Il.-ii. r,i i h, i(]ii-ri!i,,ii eliony H5 10 coupons and 20e 

2009— I'hildren's Toy .Auto .f,0 10 coupons and 25c 

2010— Dessert Spoons, first (luality aluminum, '- dozen 50 10 coupons and 25c 

2011— Dessert Forks, first quality,. same material through 

out, '- dozen .50 10 coupons and 25c 

2012— -Mouth Oiu.'in, Mftelphone, excellent tone 50 10 coupons and 25c 

201:: ''.y'-yy-.- ; ' : - ' ' .ijy useful r V.;,;.- 

■';■''■''' 50 10 coupons and 25c 

2014 - .Minor --A ."^ure favorite fyO 10 coupons and 25c 

201f; l!iit.';le or Coronet, for boys 50 10 coupons and 25c 

2017 B'!'.-!" (.;• Cornnet; a desirable toy. . 50 10 coupons and 26c 

2'J'' IP and Saucer, decorated 50 10 coupons and 25c 

2019 -.-ly^'i a.'iii t i-aiii, (^(nuine German China. . 50 10 coupons and 25e 

2020— Pn.n Dun Dish, very tasty 00 10 coupons and 30c 

?021— Tablespoons, aluminum, always the sai; . .... GO 10 coupons and ."JOc 
2022 — Table Forks, aluminum, same quality iniou;:i.oit, 

Va dozen " 60 10 coupons and 30c 

i:02;;— Cluna Te.-. ■ , tlirman de.>!o-!i tiO 10 coupons and 30e 

2024 -Doll, spe •!, ^ J value 60 10 coupons and 30c 

2025- -.-^haviiiu- Set, very cute 75 10 coupons and 40c 

2026— Glass Vases, imitation cut glass 75 10 coupons and 40c 

\VK .\HK THl:'. 0\ i i IN i ' \ .\- \ ! . \ \\ii(j .-■ i i:m i ( i; |c 1 1\ I .i: 1 1 S ! .\' , .MONFY Wri'ir rilK CONSUMER 



.1 M' 



I I M I 



I I )\l M i\, ON"!', 



SEK ronnjN LIST 





^^?^i^-- 



.....K H.ndso.. pi^mres Well Worth 

Framina 



M^ 



1078— Statues 



1368 — Fruit Picture, 15 coupom 




Win» y«i 




Tea Set 



r 



iJSlk. ! < • 






•>»■ 



Statue Clock 



1 ^-^eT^r- 'M^i^^-s'ij-J^'i^: ■■?'«"'- 



''■-^ 



. >'*^ 



Rock cf A;;l<. 1'> coujions 




Child's Picture, 10 coupons 



WK AKI 



■IP' iiv. 



\N\n\ WHO SI KNP (II i; \ii\ I i: ri-'N', .,in-.!:v writ! Tin-: .•nNsrMEii 



i.\l si'K i: 



I IMITKI) 



List of Premium^' -^^nnn'mm/ 




-J 



«'.. 



^ 



it 



?^ 



lock 



nNSCMER 



No. Artiile 

J027-~Jcwrl Haskc-t, handsome ; ^., 
J028-SuKar and Cream, especially n- 
2029 - Nii'kle Fruit Hasknt, good article.. 

20S0 — IIindliKht Alarm Clock 

1031— Glass Va • >iitiful imitation rut jjlas 
2032— 'loy China Jta Sit, German design 

2033~15on Don Dish, fancy 

2034 — N'iokei Fruit Ha.^kot, very noat and tasty., 

2035 — Hiscuit Jnrs, very fine 

2036 — Mi.scuit Jars, spictulid liesign. . . 
2037--Hnl>y Alarm Clock 

I0.?8— Dwii; special. Every Rirl like a (i.ii 

2039-Chiria Tntile Sot. 4 pieces, rr'^niine German China 
2040 I'res.'^-'d Cut Glass Wo 

2041— China Bedroom Set, toy 

2042— Triplicate Mirrors, especially Rood arliclf 
2043— Jewel Hasket, beautifully decorated.. 

2044 — Glass Covered Pitcher, .nomelhing new 

2045 — Shaving Set 

204C— r^having Set 

2047— Toy China Tea Set. Every lillle girl would be 

delighted with this 

2048— Lemonade Set. Very u.^eful for water or lemonade. 

Nicely decorated 

2049— Toy I'iano '.....'.'. 

2050 — Toy Auto. Every little boy loves an anto. 

2061 — Doll; special. Every little girl likes a doll. 

Neatly dre? used 

2062— Pickle Fork, pearl handle 

2053— Butter Knife, pearl handle 

2054 — Boy Scout Bruiis Statuary. A most desirable premium 
2055— Wine Set. Droant-T and ':; dn-.-.on Glasses, riciily 

etnb'is.'^Oil, new (iorriian di > i/n '. 

2056 — Food Clioppir. A h-inj: chwld ii'H'e.^.^iity. A great 

labjr .savur; gene-al purpose size. 

2057 — Casters, 3 bottle.s, salt and pepper, mustard or Vine^jar 
2058 — Castor.';, ,'} liottlc^. <all and pepper, tnu.stard or vir.e.r;ar 

20i>9 -I'^.n'; ;;;n ji'i.. i iinnio'id p.iint 

2060 — Fruit Set, pretty design, velvet fini.sh, 

exceptionally g.)od 

2061 — Tea Set, 21 pieces, extra good •■ ahie, beautiful 

(!tM man China 

20'"^ --'ica Set. 21 pio.-es. T;i:,!,il R ,^ rjuria 

-■■ " :' ■ . '■■>' atly decorated 

mafrnincent de.sisxn. 

2(>i-:. -Ml ucal A!ar,n Clock 

206') — Wir.e .Set, especially fine 

2067— Finit Set, extromrly handsome set , 

206S- • ; : ; - de.sign 

2069-^ VVii.c Set, wondi:rfully cute 

2070 — Metal \V'ine Set, new German design 

2071— V, a Set, 42 piece-, b.autiful German China 

2072 — 'lea Set, 42 pieces, German China; a choice set 

20vJ — Brasii Statuary, rno.st anisiic and plea.sing design.... 
1074— Rra?s Statuary. Thi.s !-; exceptionally beautiful 

and a very liand.somc premium 



cuupona 




Of 




■■, 


10 


coupons 


ft.d 4*. 




10 


coupons 


and 4o< 


I) 


10 


coupons 


and 4B^ 


, .') 


10 


coupons 


and 48). 


100 


n 


coup ins 


and b#« 


ino 


' 




HH.' 


126 






unJ 


125 


15 


i 


and 


125 


15 


(■ ; ni» 


and 


if 5 


15 


':■-'_}. 'J lis 


and ^i. 


I ^ -. 


!;. 


Coupon* 


and li« 


12o 


16 


coupons 


and lit 


1 •:,'. 


15 


coupons 


and 6I« 


125 


15 


coupons 


and o6( 


! -.'.h 


15 


coupons 


and 56t 


126 


16 


coupons 


and lOt 


125 


16 


coupons 


and 60f 


125 


16 


coupons 


and 80« 


125 


15 


coupons 


and 80c 


150 


15 


coupons 


and 7ft 



160 



200 

250 
2.'30 
250 
200 

190 

;too 
,'',00 
400 
■100 
•100 
4.-.0 
•l.'.O 
!;.0 
!."0 
500 
600 
700 
700 

HOC 



15 coupons and lit 



150 


15 coupons and 80t 


150 


16 coupons and 81c 


160 


16 coupons and BOo 


150 


15 coupons and 80* 


150 


15 coupons and 80f 


150 


15 coupons and S$t 


200 


26 coupons and $1.00 



25 coupons and till 

25 coupon.i and |1.2I 
25 coupons and $1.21 
25 coupons and |1.2B 
25 coupons and $1.2* 

25 coupons and 85f 



25 
25 
25 

r»" 
I.O 

25 
25 
25 
26 



■-■'■'•• -1:11 

■ns 
coupons 
coupons 
coupons 

coupons 
coupons 

CUpORS 

ci.capons 
coupons 
coupons 
coupons 
coupons 



and $1.51 

and S1.5i 
and $1.90 
and $1.'JS 
and $2.08 
and $2.10 
and $2.20 
and $2.23 
and ?2.2I 
and $3. S.J 
and $2.33 
and $3.0* 
and $3.)> 



50 coupons and $1.8* 



WE ARK THK ONLY liKM IN CAX.XDA WHO SPEND OtJR ,\DVRRT!SINO MOM'.Y WITH THE CONSt'.MKK 



IM, :.l'|i I, AMi ((»l TKK MII.I.S, I.lMllKh. LONDON, ONT. 



Pictures Well Worth Framiria, 



ski: (oi PON r,isT 

"••-,'K*j'"»"'.'i!»"T«ir^ 












^ 



IfJ58--Sn..w Sr. 



! ■• NNiller SCITK'. 1.1 ri.LlllMiis 





1747— Child Scene, 1' 



i;!' 



►^htninvr Sicno, 10 coupong 



RKCIPES—Continued. 

Al.WAVS i;8K SWKKTIIF.AKT BFtANU BAKINd POWDKU, EXTUA( TS AM) SPICKS 



Frcciuenl DiistitiK savers swceijin^j. A lonm 
that i-i (iastt'd nftcii and '.horuii^^lily will not 
requiit- such constant, swoopini; as one that is 
dustt'c] carch^Ksly and Kfldoni. 

Pali'iit l.fiillicr Shii ■- \. '-I'-l l.av .■ I'le dirt 
reniovMJ frum llu'tii wiih a daDip sihiukp. I'fy 
with a dustor, and then apply a v(Ty little 
rasclirif. and polish with a silk han<lkcrohief. 

To Clean Windows — Two tablespoonfuls of 
kerosene added to a basin of water with which 
the windows arc t" li<' w;i"tu'd, will make them 
heautifiill;/ i'!.':ic. am! la.-. r to polish. 

To Clean H:ird«<)(i<i or Stained Floors — 
Sweep thoroiijriily and dust, then rub with an 
absorbent flannel cloth wet with kerosene. 

To Clean and Hrichlen (Ml Picture Frames — 

Ruli n-vr the fraiiif water in which onions 
have heen liuilcd. It will reniiive dust and 
specks and briphten the frame. 

To Keep Tinware From RuslinK — Tinware 
may be kept from .iistinji: by rubbinp it with 
fresh lard, when new, then thorouphly heating 

it in !>;:■ .'.v:'r. luf,:;-:- ■.'. ■. ^ ;;^.:,!^ 

To Kemove Kgg Stains From Sliver — Apply 
table salt with a wet cloth, and they will 
quickly disappear. 



To I'revcnt ti!:;s.ies From Cracking — Put a 

•siK'er spoon in when any hot li(]!,:id is to be 
poured into the k'i'^'^' pouriuK dir'ctly on the 
bowl o ftho spoiin. The heat will i,;iL crack 
lh> '''a - 111 'h:-. '.va}-. 

ri\ hiiler I'll! a "lass tumbler half full 
of str ! Ml .«oap suds, and after the 

flics ha'.> .L,...a' to roost on the ceilinpr, it is an 
easy matter to catch them by placincj the 
turnl)lpr over them. They will fall into the 
si;ds and .soon die. This takes but a short 
tinit each evening and keeps a house ^'ree from 

flics. 

I'or Ifouso I'lants — A few drops of anv 
tnunia put in each quart of wa'er with which 
the i)lants are watered will improve the color 
of the foliage, and inciease the growth. 

I'or an Ironing Stand — Use a wire-covered 
a. be; tos mat. It not only cleans the tlatiron, 
but will not scorch the sheet. 

Faded Colors may often be restored by the 
use of alum water. A faded blouse, for in- 
stance, should be shaken free of dust, then 
washed well with ca.itiie soap, rinsed thor- 
oughly in clear water, and then in alym water. 
The alum will generally brighten the colors, 
and in any case it will help to set them. 



WK .AltK 'yv. ONLY KlUM IN ( \N\li\ WHO Sl'KNIt OIH .\nVI-:i{TIS[NC, yU'\y.\ WITH Til!: CONStT.MER 



s 



■■'(• full 
the 
i i an 
licr the 
iilo the 
a short 
ee from 






.MlM|)i('(>, whnio 

Allspift'. Kround 

I!«ra* 

ISiikinif Powder 
*>-«z. tin, I roupnn 
12-oz. tin, 2 coupons 
16-oz. tin, 3 coupons 
l-ql.Si>nl(>rs, 1 coupon 
Tumblers, 1 coupon 
Fancy " 1 coupon 

liucliwheat Flour 

Pancake Flour 

Sweetheart Coffee 
I/] -lb. tin, 1 coupon 
1-lb. tin, 2 coupons 

Chocolate Cream Cofl'ee 
1-lb. tin, 2 coupons 

Cloves 

Cassia 

Cream Tartar 

Curry Powder 

Cayenne Popper 

Castor Oil 

Flavoring Extrf cts 
2-oz. bottle, 1 coupon 
4-oz. bottle, 2 coupon 
8-oz. bottle, 4 coupon 

Ginger 




QUALITY 

EXCELS 

IN 

BOTH 

OUR GOODS 

AND OUR 
PREMIUMS 



and 

Gee uie 

Otlwr 



Kerhn 
.*>ajje 
Savory 
'I'hyme 
Mint 

Jelly INiwders 
All flavors 

Lemonade 

Manna I'apicnca 

Pure 1 X I. Mustard 

l». S. F. Mustard 

Durham Mustard 

French Mu:,(ard 

Pastry Spice 

Mace 

Marjoram 

.S. Machine Oil 

Oil of I.emon 

Oranjfcadf 

Sweet Oil 

Mlack Tillicherry 

Pepper 
vVhite Tillicherry 

Pepper 
PickliuK Spice, whole 
IMckling Spice, ground 
Sulphur 
Salt Petr^' 
Senna (.eaves 
Turmeric 
Turpentine 

SA\ h \ULli 
roiPONS AND GEl 
PREMIUM 



IXL Spice bi uonee Mills 



T nvnAXT 

-• --«_•■ XT !_' -^ n 



C=50«=3 



t IMtTCn 



/"VVTTA r>Ti-\ 



^. 



You can secure one of these cook books by sending us name and address 
of your grocer, Do not delay. Only 100,000 given away. 



C 



(A 

C. 
O 

O 
u 

a 

C5 

(d 

H 
}^ 



Vn 

CO 



0) 

E 
o 

X 




OtiAitt.. 



.laiunsuoD aq^ q;iM 



Xauom SuisiH3App jno pusds oqA* «p!;u«^ m ;*ido3d -^lun auj ojf a^ 



