ALBERT R. MANN 
LIBRARY 

AT 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY 




THE GIFT OF 

ISABEL ZUCKER '26 




PI Cornell University 
J Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924051782989 



MOEE POT-POUEEI 

PEOM A SUEEEY GAEDEN 



MOEE POT-POUEEI 



FEOM A SUEEEY GAEDEN 



BY 

MES C. W. EAELE 



FOURTH IMPRESSION 



LONDON 

SMITH, ELDEE, & CO., 15 WATEELOO PLACE 

1900 

[All rights reoeiyed] 



'Beading good Books of Morality is a 

little flat and dead. Observing our faults in 

others is sometimes improper for our case ; 

but the best Eeceipt (best, I say, to work 

and best to take) is the Admonition of a 

Friend ' 

Bacon 



TO THE EEADERS OF 

•POT-POUEEI FEOM A SUBBEY GAEDEN' 

I DEDICATE THIS BOOK 



CONTENTS 



8EPTEMBEB 

PAOK 

Heasons for writing another ' Pot-Pourri ' — Advice of friends — 
Criticisms grave and gay — Keturn home after three months 
abroad — Disappointment with dry garden— Kingfisher — 
Sedum sjpectabile and insects — Gardening — Cooking . . 1 

\ OCTOBER 

Gardening — Echeverias — Ignorance about bulbs — Gossamer 
time and insects — The East Coast — A new rockery — Oxalis 
floribundaas a vegetable — Previous ' Poi-Powrris ' — Cooking 
receipts, various — Journey to Frankfort in 1897 — Cronberg 
— Boecklin's Todten-Insel — Jewish Cemetery — Goethe's 
house — Staedal Art Institute — German treatment of tuber- 
culosis 46 

NOVEMBER 

Present of ' The Botanist ' — Echeveria and Euphorbia splen- 
de^is — Cowper on greenhouses — Cultivation of greenhouse 
plants — Bookseller at Frankfort — Dr. Wallace on Lilies 
— Eeeeipts — Winter in the country — The sorting of old 
letters 85 

DECEMBER 

Lonely evenings and more papers— Figs from France — Horn- 
beams and Weeping Hornbeams — Wire netting round small 
fruit-trees — Damsons — Eoman Hyacinths and Paper-white 
Narcissus — Effect of coloured glass on plants — Use of corru- 
gated iron — Lord Lyndoch — Cultivation of Mistletoe — A list 
of plants — Anniversary present-giving — Christmas decora- 
tions — Acetylene gas — The old learning to live p.lone — 
Ileceipta 118 



viii MORE POT-POURRI 



JANUARY 1899 

PAGE 

Difficulties of growing Daphne indica — Journey last year to 
Ireland — Cutting down and re-planting trees— Apples — 
Skimmed milk — Manure heaps — Winter Honeysuckle — 
Botanical Gardens in Dublin — Botticelli's drawings — 
Tissot's Bible — Bippingille's patent stove — Blue flowers — 
' Snowdrop-time ' — ' The Sun-children's Budget ' — Floral 
notes from ' The Scotsman ' — Receipts 152 



FEBBVARY 

Mistresses and servants — DifiBculty of getting servants — Girls 
instead of boys — Eegistry Offices — The employments that do 
not take up characters — Early rising — Baron Humboldt — 
Coverings for larders — Blackbeetles — Children's nurses — 
Ignorance of young married women — Some natural history 
books — Forcing blossoming branches — Horticultural Show — 
Letter from San Moritz — Eeceipts 1S4 



IIAECB 

Confessions about diet — Cures for rheumatism — Effects of tea- 
drinking — Sparing animal life a bad reason for vegetarianism 
— The Berlin foot-race — Mrs. Crow in Edinburgh — Bagehot 
on luxury — A word about babies — German and English 
nurseries — Sir Eiohard Thome Thome on raw milk — The 
New Education — Difficulty of understanding young children 
— Gardening — Cooking 21G 



APRIL 

Newspapers on cremation — More about Suffolk— Maund on 

flowers that close — Asparagus growing on the seacoast 

Peacock feathers for firescreens — Dining-room tables 

Petroleum tubs in gardens — Neglect of natural history 

Cactuses again — Old mills — Mr. Burbidge on sweet-smelling 

leaves— Florist Auriculas— Seed-sowing — Kitchen garden 

Poultry ... 2G9 



CONTENTS ix 

MAY 

rAOK 

The ' French Sugar Pea ' — The ' Westminster Gazette ' on 
Tulips — The legend of the Crown Imperial — Article on 
' Sacred Trees and Flowers ' — Peeling of Poppies — Cooking 
receipts — Books on Florence — Mr. Gladstone on travelling — 
Journey to Italy — ^Arrival at Arcetri 301 



JUNE 

What I saw from my window at Arcetri— Fireflies — Cypresses^ 
Youthful memories in the ' Casoine ' — Deodar in Cloister 
of San Marco — FSte at Santa Margharita — Villas — Gardens 
— Want of colour in Tuscany at midsummer — Slight allu- 
sion to picture galleries — The cabinet of Cardinal Leopoldo 
di Medici — June 24th in Florence — Botanical Garden — 
Silence of birds and summer sounds 329 



JULY 

A night journey — Dawn in the train — Passing ChambSri — A 
water-cure near Geneva — Amiel and his ' Journal Intime ' 
— The New Museum at Geneva — M. Correvon's garden — An 
afternoon at B&le — Boecklin again — Cronberg and the 
' Palmengarten ' — Planting shrubs to secure an especial 
effect— The cultivation of Alpine Strawberries — Eeceipts , 3G7 



AUGUST 

A Horticultural Show in August— The old Chelsea Physio 
Garden — Towns out of season — Flat-hunting in London — 
Overcrowding flats — Marble better than tiles — Curtains and 
blinds— A long note on girls and young women . , .394 

INDEX 439 



MOBE) POT-POUEEI 



SEPTEMBER 

Eeasons for writing another ' Pot-Pourri ' — Advioe of friends — 
Criticisms grave and gay — Beturnbome after three months abroad 
— Disappointment with dry garden — Kingfisher — Sedum specta- 
bile and insects — Gardening — Cooking. 

September 1st, 1898. — It is now a year and a half since I 
finished my first book, and the public have been almost 
as appreciative and generous in their praise of it as my 
nieces were. Kind letters of all sorts have poured in, 
and I have been overwhelmed with suggestions about 
the future, and what I should or should not do. Some 
have said — and I admit that these, in all friendliness, are 
the most earnest in their heartfelt appeals — that I should 
rest on my laurels and write no more. They urge that a 
second book always falls flat. If on the same subject as 
the first, it is generally a failure. If on a new subject, it 
is apt to be outside the writer's experience. And then they 
quote several incontestable examples which jump to the 
recollection of everybody. I really agree with this view 
of the case up to the point of not acting upon it. 
Nothing can ever bear being done a second time. This 
is one of the sadnesses of life, and I do not for a moment 
anticipate that No. 2 can please in the same kind of way 
as did No. 1. The method not being new, my readers 
will know pretty well what to expect ; and this, probably, 

B 



2 MORE POT-POURRI 

■will immensely sharpen their critical judgment. Then 
there were those who said and wrote — and need I state 
that they are the flatterers who come most home to the 
author's heart, as is but natural ? — ' We have read your 
book ; we hke it ; we have found it useful and helpful, 
entertaining or suggestive. Cannot you give us more ? ' 
To these I answered : ' Give me time and I wiU try.' 
The result was that throughout the last year I have been 
making various notes about my life, things I saw and 
things I did, exactly as they occurred. These very likely 
vdll prove less interesting than former notes, which were 
more or less connected with the life that was behind me. 
One newspaper had it that I must have a very good 
memory. As a matter of fact, I have no memory at all, 
but from my youth I have kept, more or less continuously, 
commonplace books — a jumble of all sorts of things as I 
came across them in my very desultory reading. These 
notes were often so carelessly kept as not even to 
acknowledge where I stole the thought that gave me 
pleasure. This accounts for my having quotations at 
hand. Another reviewer kindly said I had a 'marked 
grace of style.' My dear old mother used to say she 
never considered a compUment was worth having that 
was not totally undeserved ! I never had the slightest 
idea of possessing any style at all. But what is style ? 
It is a weary topic when so much is said about ' getting 
style ' (like ' getting religion '). Schopenhauer's remarks 
on the subject are worth noticing. He writes : ' There 
is no quality of style that can be got by reading writers 
who possess it. But if the qualities exist in us — exist, 
that is to say, potentially — we can caU them forth and 
bring them into consciousness. "We can learn the pur- 
poses to which they can be put. We can be strengthened 
in an inclination to use them, or get courage to do so. 
The only way in which reading can form style is by 



SEPTEMBER 3 

teaching us the use to -which we can put our own natural 
gifts. We must have these gifts before we can learn 
the use of them. Without them, reading teaches us 
nothing.' 

One friend wrote : ' I should have liked the book still 
better if the moral and domestic reflections had been 
jumbled up with the rest, instead of being put like an 
appendix at the end.' With this I entirely agree, but my 
judgment in the matter was overruled by others. The 
most general criticism has been that the various subjects 
in the book are not kept enough apart. Some asked : 
' Won't you write a cookery book alone ? or a gardening 
book alone ? ' I could only say that I am no specialist. 
Dozens of such books exist and are much better than 
any I could write. I am and must remain an ignorant 
amateur. My mind only works, as I said before, on the 
lines of collecting knowledge, sweet and bitter, as I walk 
along life's way. What I have I can give, but I can 
neither create nor imagine. The accusations of the 
sudden, jumps from gardening to surgery, or from cooking 
to art, which astonished my readers, are perfectly true. 
But are not these violent and sudden contrasts a marked 
characteristic of modern life ? Do we not, many of us, 
any morning, go from our letters or newspapers — con- 
taining, perhaps, the most tragic human stories, affect- 
ing ourselves or those we love — to the ordering of the 
dinner for the friend who is to come in the evening, or 
seeing that the carriage or the fly is not forgotten for the 
guest who is leaving before noon ? Such is life. So my 
months must remain quite as varied as before. It is sad 
to have to repeat the un-English name of ' Pot-Pov/rri,' 
which annoyed so many and was never very satisfactory 
to myself ; but this book in no way aims at being more 
than a continuation of the first, a kind of second volume, 
a giving more to those who ask for it. The word 'pot- 

b2 



4 MORE POT-POURRI 

fcmrrV is so generally accepted in England to mean a 
sweet and pleasant mixture, that we do not realise that the 
original word meant a mixed stew, as do its synonyms 
of ' hotch-potch ' and ' olla podrida,' a favourite Spanish 
dish consisting of a mixture of various kinds of meat 
chopped fine and stewed with vegetables. 

Most of the letters I received were of kindly and 
affectionate appreciation. But some frankly criticised, 
while others marked short-comings. As usual, however, 
in such cases perfectly incompatible qualities were re- 
quired. For instance, most of my gardening friends were 
disappointed at the information about gardening being so 
elementary, telling them Uttle they did not know. They 
very likely overrated what I had to tell them, but they 
entirely missed the point of my omitting to make my 
information as detailed and special as I could have done 
— first, because I referred them to real gardening books, 
and secondly because I wanted what I did teU to be 
particularly addressed to beginners with smaU gardens 
who wished to do their best, but had little time to spend 
in the study of other books. On the other hand the 
ignorant amateurs, for whom it was specially written, 
mournfully complained that it stiU did not begin enough 
at the beginning. To these I always answered that Mr. 
Eobinson must have realised this difficulty, as some years 
ago he reprinted the 'Amateur Gardener," by Mrs. 
Loudon (Fredk. Warne & Co.), which is full of this 
elementary information, and to be had from any bookseller 
for the sum of ninepence. 

A third difficulty was the slavish admu-er, who in 
all soils and even with different chmates said : ' I have 
strictly carried out your instructions, and utter failure has 
been the result.' I wish once more to reiterate that 
anything I say, both in the last volume and in this, with 
regard to plant life is merely the result of my own 



SEPTEMBER S 

personal experience. All that I state is by way of 
suggestion, not by any means as a law to be carried out 
at all times and in all places. Several letters of approval 
I received from working gardeners gave me great pleasure, 
and one said that he found the book 'very bright and 
holding.' This seems to me a most expressive word. An- 
other complaint came from a Londoner, representing the 
opinion of the inhabitants of towns. He was in exact con- 
trast to the gardener-friend in the suburbs and the country. 
He complained bitterly of the long lists of plants, the many 
details about gardening, and asked pitifully if this part 
might not have been relegated to an appendix, suggesting 
that this would make the book much more readable. 

One man who professed to be no gardener at all said 
his leading idea in gardening was to dismiss the under- 
gardener. This is a very common theory with the master 
of the house who thinks gardens can be well kept very much 
under-handed. As a rule the best gardens are those where 
the master of the house superintends the gardening himself. 

A woman friend who dislikes both garden books and 
gardening wrote : ' Notices of gardening books might 
for the sake of the village idiot, for whom everyone writes, 
have been put in a chapter quite at the end. " Pat,'' as the 
actors call it, should come at the beginning of a book to 
encourage the reader.' Perhaps she was not wrong, for I 
believe, so far as I can gather from the letters, that the 
non-gardening people like my book best — gardeners after 
aU being, as they are the first to acknowledge, one-idea'd. 
And yet no, it cannot have been really so, as by far the 
most genuine and sympathetic letters I have received 
have been from real garden lovers — the sick, the old, the 
expatriated, all joining in one paean of praise over the 
soul-satisfying occupation of gardening. 

A few of the London booksellers were rather amusing 
on the subject, and I have considerable sympathy with 



6 MORE POT-POURRI 

their opinions. One said to a friend of mine, a few 
months after the book had come out, that it was going 
into the sixth edition and that he ' couldn't conceive why, 
as there was nothing in it.' Another shrewdly remarked 
that he called the book ' a social success, not a literary 
one.' There was a vein running through several letters 
which I thought perhaps accounted in some way for the 
success of the book, as it proved that many people 
wished to give it to someone else because they found in 
it a gentle rod wherewith to scourge their neighbour. One 
critic said that ' a spirit of benign and motherly mate- 
rialism broods over the book' — an expression which I 
thought rather nice, as it was what I had aimed at. A 
second said the book was ' full of good spirits from 
beginning to end,' and a third discovered that ' a tone of 
sadness ran through it all.' 

After critics came the friends who amusingly said: 
' The book is so extraordinarily Uke yourself, we can hear 
your voice speaking all through it.' Strangers, I am told, 
who know me only by reputation or not at all, kindly 
settled that it was not written by me, but by some 
mysterious xmknown person they could not quite hit 
upon. 

It is quite true, and I wish to state it again, as I did 
in my first preface, that I had very real and practical 
assistance from one of my nieces, who made a most 
efficient secretary. Our method of working was simple 
enough. I wrote what I wanted to say and then dictated 
it to her. In reading aloud, the more flagrant mistakes 
and repetitions struck the ear quicker than the eye, as is 
but natural for one more accustomed to speak than to 
write. Two or three other people helped me by toning 
down my crude opinions and taking out whole sen- 
tences that might have been causes of offence. It has 
for a long time been a favourite theory of mine that, as 



SEPTEMBER 7 

people generally write books with a vague hope that they 
may be read, it is wise to consult a small number of 
people typical of the public and to be guided, without too 
much self-esteem, by the opinions of these selected few. 
Of course this opens up the further discussion whether, 
as I saw it well put the other day in the ' Spectator,' 
' Success with the multitude is in itself desirable, or if it 
is not rather the haU-mark of a commonplace inferiority. 
Who pleases f oohsh readers must himself be a fool. If the 
general reader is after all quite such a fool as the superior 
junta think him is another question altogether- But he 
has the marked advantage of holding the verdict in his 
hands.' The only rwison d'&tre of ephemeral literature is 
that it should be read. The writer of genius comes under 
a different category. He stands on a mountain-top and 
breathes a rarer atmosphere, and often can only be under- 
stood from a distance. ' Bethia Hardacre ' exactly 
expresses this in verse : 

I pray to fail, if to succeed 
Means faithlessness unto my creed. 

Lady Bastlake says on this point : ' Genius, with its 
divine inspirations, may be left to find its way to the 
admiration of the few and in the end to the acknowledg- 
ment of aU.' Many will remember when Mr. Quaritch 
brought out Fitzgerald's translation of ' Omar Khayyam ' 
disgusted at its complete failure, he threw the whole 
edition into a ' penny box.' Dante Eossetti found them, 
and we all know the rest. 

Some people said that what really pleased them most 
in the book were the little bits of poetry. Considering 
that not one of these was mine, the remark by way of 
comphment Was rather humorous. Another curious 
vein of flattery that ran through dozens of the letters 
was expressive of the vyriters' regret that they had not 
written ' Pot-Pourris ' of their own, proving the general 



8 MORE POT-POURRI 

truth of how easy everything is if we only take the 
trouble to do it. 

The cooking receipts caused panic in some minds and 
indignation in others. One poor bachelor told his house- 
keeper to try the receipt in ' Pot-Pourri ' for making a soup. 
She happened to hit upon the Erench chef's extravagant 
directions for making consommA and, horrified by the 
numberless pounds of beef recommended, said : ' Eeally, 
sir, it would be far cheaper to have down a quantity 
of tinned soups from the Stores ! ' Another careful 
mistress of her own house complained very much of 
different meats amounting to six pounds being used 
for one pie. But in her case the household consisted of 
one thin brother and two thinner maids. My receipts, of 
course, were jumbled together for big and little estabUsh- 
ments, to be used at the discretion of the housewife. A 
French lady writes that I make a mistake in thinking 
that it is usual in Prance to baste chickens with butter, 
and that they are much better done with the fat of 
bacon, or suet, or even common lard. I myself generally 
roast chickens with butter, and find that people like them 
very much. But of course only fresh butter must be 
used ; never that horror called ' cooking butter.' It is 
true that basting them with the fat of good bacon does 
make them a better colour. 

In a most humorous article from that delightful 
writer of the ' Pages from a Private Diary ' in the ' Corn- 
hill ' there were several funny allusions to my book. I 
quote the following as a specimen : ' While " doing " my 
Michaelmas accounts this morning, I found that the 
butter book (for we use Tom's daury) was half as much 
Bgain as last quarter, and the reason given by the respon- 
sible Eugenia is that Mrs. Earle protests against economy 
in butter. On referring to the passage I find that she 
suggests instead an economy in meat, and I pointed this 



SEPTEMBER 9 

out to B. ; but the butcher's book shows no proportionate 
diminution. This has led me to reflect how much more 
infectious extravagance is than economy.' 

One of my most complimentary letters was from an 
old friend, Mrs. Eoundell, asking me to allow her to quote 
some of my receipts in a new cookery book she was com- 
piling. This has since appeared vmder the name of 'A 
Practical Cookery Book ' (Bickers & Son), and is so ex- 
cellent that it thoroughly convinces me of my wisdom in 
declining to write one myself. My praise of this book 
almost suggests a mutual admiration society, as Mrs. 
Eoundell is very complimentary to me. She begins by 
thanking me for my receipts, and ends by a quotation 
from ' Pot-Pourri ' on hospitality and house-keeping. It 
will be many a long year before her own book is super- 
seded. The receipts are clear and economical, and its 
only fault seems to be that at present it costs seven-and- 
sixpence. 

A literary friend writes that he has a point of dissent 
— ' a bit of pedantic purism. Yousaj" chickens." There is 
no such word : chickere is a plural. Hose, hosen ; chick, 
chicken ; and in old days many more — as house, housen ; 
place, pleasen. A fanner's wife, at least in the west, says 
correctly that she is going to feed her chicken — meaning 
not one, but many.' It is difi&cult to know when custom 
asserts itself sufficiently to change grammar, and my critic 
himself admits that many of the words he quotes are ob- 
solete. I fear I shall hardly have the courage to say 
' truss two fine chicken ' if I come across such a phrase in 
a receipt. 

I received very few letters on the nurse question. 
It had been a good deal discussed in periodicals just 
before the book came out. 

An old friend, a doctor, wrote: 'Your chapter on 
health I take some exception to ; on the question that 



lo MORE POT-POURRI 

starvation is a cure for most of the minor ailments of life 
I agree with you, but I think you are wrong on the 
subject of nurses. You may get some affection and 
kindness on the part of a mother, or a sister, or a wife, 
but I have always held that in really bad cases all three 
make the worst possible nurses, because so few women 
can really control their feelings, and where there were 
great affection and grave anxiety they would be apt to 
fail in some small details which might be of the utmost 
importance, where a good trained nurse would not, because 
she looks on the patient only as a " case," which, if she is 
a conscientious woman, it is her one object to get well. 
My experience also does not tally with yours, that the 
nurse is the tool of the doctor and is bound to approve 
and agree with him. On the contrary I think many of 
them, through " a little learning," think they know quite 
as much as, if not more than, the doctor, and often use 
their own discretion (?) as to whether they vnU carry out 
all the orders given them. If the doctor finds out this 
and remonstrates, he then makes an enemy of a person 
who at any time may have an opportunity of doing him 
much professional injury.' I am quite ready to acknow- 
ledge the correctness of these remarks, and if the nurse 
and doctor do not work well together any opposition on 
the part of the nurse might make the situation very dis- 
agreeable for the doctor, and vice versd. If, on the other 
hand, they work extremely well together, the patient may 
be the sufferer, supposing the doctor were mistaken about 
the case, which does happen with men of the greatest 
talent. The too literal carrying-out of the doctor's orders, 
especially with regard to medicines and sleeping-draughts, 
is often very injurious to the patient. I did not for a 
moment mean to imply that love and devotion could 
supply the qualities that are the result of training. But a 
kind of clear-sightedness and instinct that comes from love 



SEPTEMBER ii 

and devotion is by no means always to be found in the 
professional nurse. 

I continue to quote typical letters on various subjects 
as they crop up. One kind old clergyman thought so 
flatteringly of my powers that he suggests that I 
should ' utilise the genius which has popularised your 
book in some of those fields into which your book affords 
glimpses — why not write on heredity ? ' The fact is, as 
I have abeady said, I am not able to write a treatise on 
cooking and gardening, much less could I pretend to 
give the world any information on great subjects con- 
nected with science ; and heredity more especially is 
peculiarly buried in darkness, even for experts. He con- 
cludes a long and interesting letter as follows : ' Some 
years ago Sir P. Galton sent me a paper of inquiries 
(which he was circulating among doctors) as to the 
physical and psychical history of three generations of 
ancestors.' This idea of Sir jF. Galton's has been a 
favourite one with me for years. I have always thought 
that it would be of the greatest interest in famiUes if a 
careful register were kept of people's health, diseases, and 
death, so that some idea might be formed of the general 
tendencies of family diseases, with their succeeding de- 
velopment and treatment during three or four genera- 
tions. 

It seems satisfactory that a great number of the news- 
paper critics gave me credit for common-sense. Some 
few passages in ' Sons and Daughters ' raised opposition, 
but, I am bound to confess, much less than I expected. 
My great disappointment was that I got so little actual 
criticism — I may even say, so little correction. In this, I 
am told, I was ambitious, as most critics compose their 
articles by a few quotations, and have neither time nor 
inclination to really criticise. There was one excellent 
exception in an interesting and friendly article in th6 



12 MORE POT-POURRI 

' Spectator.' This critic seems to doubt, more even than I 
did, the oovirage of parents and nurses as regards giving 
independence to young children. But in proof of the 
desirability of my recommendations he quotes Stevenson's 
admirable saying with regard to a boy : ' It is better for 
him to break his neck than for you to break his spirit.' 
This article shows the revers de la midaille so well, as 
regards the atmosphere of a home, that I copy it. After 
approving my suggestions about giving allowances to 
both girls and boys, it goes on to say : ' The question of 
the frank criticism by children of their home is more 
doubtful. It is, of course, better that their dissatisfaction 
should, like the measles, " come out," but what about their 
home manners ? Criticism is very apt to degenerate 
into grumbling, and the spectacle of children or young 
people grumbhng about domestic arrangements is not 
edifying. Grumbling is always rude; and if manners 
make the man, it is an undoubted fact that perfect 
manners are incompatible with absolute brutal outspoken- 
ness. For instance, the wife and mother who is trying to 
attain the really lofty standard aimed at in this book 
cannot, of necessity, be absolutely outspoken. If her work 
is to be successful, she must not hint that any part of it is 
distasteful ; that is, she must conceal some of her feelings. 
Surely children should not be brought up to feel that 
their father and mother are the only people they may be 
rude to. And if the money argument is to be applied to 
thevrife,it must touch the children too; they must not be 
allowed to take all the luxuries of the house they do not 
pay for, and then grumble because those luxuries are not 
arranged as they like best. And now that we apply this 
reasoning a second time, we see that in reality it is rather 
an ugly argument. It is a fact, but, like other facts, 
such as death and digestion, it need not be obtruded 
at every moment. The woman's work may be given from 



SEPTEMBER rj 

love of her home; and the children may forbear, also 
through love, to tell their mother that the dinner-hour 
is not quite the fashionable one, and "you might have 
remembered how I hate that pudding." The mother will 
look out for herself and see to the tastes of her family, 
and will in talks with one and the other ask for advice 
and hints on new ways of arranging the familiar details 
of life. And so good manners, which are really the 
Christian virtues of patience, charity, and self-control, 
will reign in that house, and it will be a far pleasanter 
place than if everyone in turn were loudly to volunteer 
their opinion of how it ought to be conducted.' 

This has truth in it. All individuals must decide for 
themselves how to draw the line between good manners 
and what may end in whited sepulchres. This is doubly 
difficult with children whose natural inclination is to 
speak as they feel, for not to do so appears to them 
rather as a deception than as a sparing of other people's 
feeUngs. Everyone's experience will tell them how early 
children say to others what they dare not say in their 
own home. The great difficulty is to keep the love of 
children. Goethe says: 'There is a politeness of the 
heart ; this is closely aUied to love. Those who possess 
this purest fountain of natural politeness find it easy to 
express the same in forms of outward propriety.' 

Nothing was more amusing to me than this interest- 
ing variety in the letters about ' Sons and Daughters.' I 
will quote passages from several of them : ' I agree with 
your " Daughters " more than I thought I should. You 
do not lay such stress as I thought you would on the 
necessity of getting married and the " complete " point of 
view.' All the same I maintain that an unmarried woman 
is not a complete human being. 

' I think the chapter on " Sons " the better of the two. 
But I think independence in boys is far easier to manage 



14 MORE POT-POURRI 

than in girls. School-life brings boys to their proper 
level. Home-life with absolute freedom rather leads to a 
girl becoming too confident that her own opinion must 
be the right one. She rubs up against so few who can or 
will take her down. The independent girl generally rules 
those of her own age. Of course you cannot lay down a 
hard-and-fast rule for any child. Each one has its differ- 
ent character, to be formed and improved by those who 
hve with it. This ought to be done by the mother, but it 
is more often left to an ignorant governess, who does not 
try to understand the child, who has her own narrow- 
minded ideas of right and wrong, and never makes allow- 
ance for high spirit and temper.' 

' You must remember that the people I was brought 
up amongst take their duties as parents seriously, if 
narrowly — and many of these, as far as they still exist, 
will be a Uttle startled at some of your theories, and the un- 
moral (mind, I don't say immoral) tone. Parents and child- 
ren are a subject of perennial interest. We have all been 
the one, and many of us the other — and the rest of us stand 
in loco parentis to some at least of the younger generation. 
But as long as the world lasts there will be difficulties in 
that relation. Si jewiesse savait, si vieillesse potivait is a 
saw which has many meanings. I totally disagree with 
your idea that the young must never be sacrificed to the 
old, or the healthy to the sick. Why, your own remarks 
on nursing testify to the good that may come of such a 
sacrifice.' 

This last sentence proves to me that my remarks were 
not clear, and the impression conveyed is certainly not 
what I intended. What I really think is that the old 
have no right to command the young to sacrifice their 
lives to them. But, on the other hand, the voluntary 
sacrifice by the young of their own lives, though it should 
be carefully watched by those about them, is certainly not 



SEPTEMBER 15 

without immense benefit to themselves, self-sacrifice being 
acknowledged by all moralists to be the greatest strength- 
ener of human character. There is, however, the great 
risk and danger of self-suppression. 

I continue my quotations : 

' You put the question of unselfishness in parents or 
children as being a dif&cult one, but I have always felt that 
to help each person to be as they ought to be, in the best 
and highest way for their own characters, is the only right 
love and influence that each can have for the other, no 
matter in what relations of life. If you either spoil a child 
or a parent or husband or wife, so that you make them 
behave wrongly, you are sure to be distressed by their not 
doing right, and other people feel the same.' Everyone 
must agree that to make those we love behave well is the 
object to be attained. The difficulty is the best method 
of bringing it about. Is it by unselfish example or by exact- 
ing unselfishness on the part of others ? Who can say ? 

Here is a severe condemnation from a father of several 
children : ' I don't agree one bit with your theoretical 
subordination of old to young. I think it innately ridicu- 
lous, essentially false, and at once morbid, superficial, 
and mischievous.' 

Nobody actually wrote it to me, but I heard it from 
several people, that the advice about giving the latch-key 
to very young boys harassed and worried a great number 
of mothers. Why, I do not quite understand ; as showing 
confidence in the boy seems to me the beginning of all 
true relations between mother and a growing-up son. 
I still think that if boys are unfit to have a key at seven- 
teen, or the recommended allowance at an earlier age, it 
shows that their education has been somewhat defective 
in fitting them, not for doing well at school, but for the 
general struggle of life as they get older, which is learnt 
so well by children in a lower class of life. There might. 



i6 MORE POT-POURRI 

of course, be an exception in a family, but that merely 
means that he is more deficient in common-sense than 
his brothers, and should be gradually strengthened by 
some method fitted to his peculiar case. It is a delight- 
ful feeUng of comfort to me to think that, whatever I 
suggest, nobody need follow it unless it seems to them 
good ; but I wrote nothing without deliberate thought and 
practical experience. 

As a rule the book seemed to please the old and the 
young, rather than the middle-aged. Occasionally, how- 
ever, some few parents wrote appreciating my hints about 
the modern danger of children growing up more and more 
apart from their parents. In our grandmothers' days 
this only happened among what have been called the 
' upper ten thousand.' Now it pervades all classes, down 
to the labourer who has to send his children to the infant 
and Board school. Not that schools of any sort are neces- 
sarily bad in themselves, but it is a new position which has 
to be faced with courage andthoughtfulness by the parents. 

A young mother wrote f uU of faith in her own excellent 
principles of how to bring up children, and how easy she 
had found it to gain an influence on their lives. This 
cocksureness, natural and even wholesome in the young, 
often brings about a good deal of disappointment. You 
may make a soil ever so good, and you may plant ever so 
good a seed, but even then there can be no security as to 
results. The very child who is most impressionable and 
easy to form in youth is also most affected by others 
as time goes on. The result of a powerful influence 
which we cannot even trace is what often makes children, 
as they grow up, almost unrecognisable to their parents. 
The forming of character, however, is totally different from 
moulding the impressionable clay, and, like casting bread 
upon the waters, it may return to us after many days. 

Here are some pathetic groans from an intensely 



SEPTEMBER 17 

anxious mother of an only daughter : ' Needless to say 
that the chapter of your book which chiefly interested me 
is "Daughters," the education of my own being the burn- 
ing question with me just now. You are certainly very 
comforting in what you say of " casual and superficial 
education," but I fear that would not satisfy the professed 
and professing educationalist. In our case, want of 
robustness on M.'s part has obliged us to put up with home 
education, and of course it is then a mere chance whether 
you happen to get a governess who can really teach ; for 
the teacher is born, not made. When, however, I read 
the "Parents' Eeview " or the educational literature it re- 
commends, I'suffer agonies of remorse from the conscious- 
ness of not having made enough of these early years. 
My ambition is humble. I only wish my child to be 
average, but not to be at a disadvantage if, later on, she 
is prompted to take some part in the real work of the 
world. And yet how can I with my own old-fashioned 
defective education train her in the right way ? This 
fiend of education sits like a nightmare on me almost day 
and night — " Almost thou persuadest me it is impossible 
to be a parent." When I get up from the perusal of these 
books, I feel castigated to such an extent that my mind 
feels sore all over, and into those wounds you pour the 
oil and wine of consolation. My husband, highly educated 
as he is himself, is very much inclined to take your view, 
and has, if anything, kept me back rather than urged me 
on, always fearing that, instead of arousing an interest in 
a subject, one should simply cause a lasting distaste, if it 
is offered too early to the immature mind. We cannot, 
however, put off this " training of faculty " indefinitely, 
and I am becoming more and more awake to the fact that 
my child in her cosy, comfortable home does not know as 
much as I, immured in a boarding-school, knew at her age. 
The most tantalising part of the matter is that when I 

c 



i8 MORE POT-POURRI 

can shake off this incubus of duty, she and I are so happy 
together. I suppose there is some similarity in our 
minds and tastes that makes her very responsive to me. 
I cannot bring myself, ovnng doubtless to my own defec- 
tive bringing-up, to stand at a distance, as it were, and 
criticise severely. As M. has no classes this afternoon, 
we are off to the British Museum — a sort of treat we both 
thoroughly enjoy. But, as you know, I am given to 
misgivings ; the question arises sometimes whether the 
companionship of my mature mind is the best. " Child- 
hood ought to be vnth childhood " is constantly being 
repeated to me.' 

This letter seemed to me so touching that I sent it to 
a friend of mine much interested in the subject. She 
returned it with the following remarks, which express in 
strong terms very much what I feel myself : ' I quite 
agree — one of the most interesting letters you've had. 
But it is harrowing to me the way this poor mother 
won't let herself benefit by your advice, although she 
seems to approve of it. You ask for my comments. I 
should say she gives the receipt of what her line of con- 
duct should be in the sentence " When I can shake off 
this incubus of duty she and I are so happy together. I 
suppose there is some similarity in our minds and tastes 
that makes her very responsive to me." Just fancy a 
mother having that opportunity and not using it ! There's 
hardly a parent in fifty could boast as much. Personal 
contact and sympathy with an older person means hot- 
house growth to the mental capabilities of a chUd. The 
one fear is lest it should overforce them. What do the 
geography, history, arithmetic, and all the details of 
early education matter ? The child's general intelligence 
and power of acquiring knowledge from her own observa- 
tion, which is the only true educator, will develop much 
more fully and rapidly in the mother's company than 



SEPTEMBER 19 

with a governess, especially if the mother lays herself 
out to share all her knowledge so far as possible 
with her child. As she grows up, the child will be 
the first to discover where she is at a disadvantage 
compared to others. If 'she is indifferent about this, I 
should say no one else need mind for her, and she will be 
none the worse. But if she minds, and she probably will, 
she can then acquire the belated knowledge in half the 
time and with half the money spent on teachers that 
would be required if spread out over a childhood more or 
less reluctant to learn. Do try and stop the lady from 
taking in " educational literature," for I'm sure it's not 
only useless but harmful to fret one's conscience unless 
it leads to conviction, and fortunately this mother seems 
not convinced by the " prof essing educationalists." . . . 
If the child is already fifteen or sixteen, the only modi- 
fication I should make to what I have said would be 
to recommend putting most forcibly before the girl 
herself that if she has to, or wishes to, "take some 
part in the real work of the world " she must utilise 
her best faculties to the full and try to diminish her 
deficiencies.' 

The burning question of what girls should or should not 
read called forth a good deal of comment and opposition. 
The following was one of the best of the letters on this 
subject : ' I think that, allowing for hereditary instincts 
and inherited character, or want of it, there can be 
no hard-and-fast rule as to allowing girl children to 
read without restriction. So much allowance must be 
made for the enormous difference in children, who are, 
quite unconsciously to themselves, swayed by tempera- 
ment or feelings the real nature of which they are 
ignorant and innocent of. This question opens up a very 
vride field, and perhaps in your book you could only 
afford space for generalisation on such a subject. I also 

o2 



ao MORE POT-POURRI 

feel that children, like older people and plants and any 
living thing, are subject to the eternal and terrible order 
of change ; have phases during which their whole nature 
may become either lethargic and indifferent, or on the 
other hand be dominated by sexual feehng, receptive or 
otherwise. One girl at the budding period feels and sees 
nothing harmful to her mind and morals ; whUe another, 
hitherto pure and simple-minded, may have her imagina- 
tion stimulated and her morbid curiosity partially grati- 
fied by access to all and any kind of reading, and this 
may have the effect of soiling a mind in the first and 
most delicate stage of development. Children, too, are 
extraordinarily unexpected in their phases, and often 
turn out so much better or worse than one thought with- 
out any apparent reason.' As regards the reading, in 
spite of all that has been said, I cannot alter my view 
that on the whole it is better to leave a great deal of 
liberty from childhood upwards, allowing the child to 
form her own taste, it being better to manage the reading 
of the young by advice than by restrictions. 

September 3rd. — A few days ago I returned home after 
being abroad and away from my garden for over three 
months. I left towards the end of May, when aU was 
fresh and green, bursting with bud and life, and full of 
the promise of the coming summer. In three months 
all seemed over ; the little place looked dried up and 
miserable, small, ugly, disappointing — in fact, hardly 
worth possessing at all. 

I felt dreadfully depressed, but of course all this was 
in great measure due to the time of year, the end of 
August being the very worst month for this garden, and 
one that I have never attempted to struggle with, yielding 
rather to the difficulties and generally going away. Shall 
I also confess my own character had something to do 
with it ? Many people say, ' Absence makes the heart 



SEPTEMBER 21 

grow fonder.' This is not my case under any circum- 
stances, and especially not with my little home and 
garden. The more I live here, the more I tend and 
cherish it ; the more pains I bestow upon it, the more I 
love it. 

"When I am urged to travel and change, I only feel 
that I agree with Mr. Watson in these lines : 

Nay, bid me not my cares to leave, 
Who cannot from their shadow flee. 

I do but win a short reprieve, 
'Scaping to pleasure and to thee. 

I may at best a moment's grace. 

And grant of liberty, obtain ; 
Bespited for a little space, 

To go back into bonds again. 

After being away for only a short time I come back 
with the keenest excitement. But when I have been 
away for some long time and got interested in other 
things, I come back in an ungardening mood, have forgot- 
ten all the horticultural names, and — if the time of year is 
unfavourable — I see, too clearly, nothing but the faults, 
and have a much too direct answer to Burns's prayer in 
the last verse of his queer Uttle poem, ' To a Louse, on 
seeing One on a Lady's Bonnet at Church ' : 

wad some pow'r the giftie gi'e us 
To see oursels as others see us 1 
It wad frae monie a blunder free us 

And foolish notion : 
What airs in dress an' gait wad lea'e us. 

And ev'n Devotion I 

I love what I am with, but with me, alas ! les absents 
ont toujours tort, and for weeks I had been used to greater 
beauties and wider interests. Here the dome of heaven 



22 MORE POT-POURRI 

is lower, and no cypresses point upwards. The moral to 
me is quite clear : gardeners should only go away from 
home to learn, not to see how beautiful the world is else- 
where without any gardens at aU, the science of life being 
to make the best of what we have to our hand, not to 
pine for what we have not. 

September 5th. — The dryness continues, and we wait 
in vain for rain. The weather makes us doubly appreciate 
the small square of cool water just in front of the dining- 
room window, and the pleasure it seems to bring to bird 
and insect. Great fat thrushes splash themselves in the 
shallow edges specially prepared for them with big 
stones, as they seem much afraid of deep water. Two of 
us were sitting at early breakfast when my companion 
said to me in a subdued voice, ' Look there ! ' I saw, 
perched on a hanging branch of the rose growing on the 
Pergola, the most beautiful Kingfisher. His blue wings 
flashed in the sunshine, and, turning his red breast, it 
glowed like that of a tropical bird. In a few seconds he 
flew away. I have never before seen a Kingfisher in 
this dry garden, and I can only account for it, as we are 
more than a mile from the river, by something peculiar 
in the season and his being attracted, in his search for 
food, by the gold-fish in my little fountain. A friend told 
me that the same thing happened in her garden, and that 
the Kingfisher, never seen before, beat himself against 
the glass window. 

One of the fev/ things that looked really well in the 
garden when I came home was the Cape annual, Nemesia 
strumosa. The dryness apparently had suited the 
flowering capabilities of the annual, but, finding that it 
was forming no seed, I watered it daily, as it is one of 
the plants from which it is well worth while to save the 
seed, selecting it from the best-coloured flowers. The 
seed wants a good deal of care in the gathering, as it is so 



SEPTEMBER 23 

very ephemeral — unripe one day and gone the next. 
For a person of my age it means groping on the ground 
each morning with one's spectacles on. I certainly must 
add it to the list of annuals worth growing in a small 
garden. We sow it in place the middle of May. 

September 7th.— The old-fashioned Zauschneria Gali- 
fornica, when well grown, is a very pretty plant with 
its soft gray leaves and scarlet flowers. I have had it for 
years, and it has stood any amount of moving about into 
different places. It never died, and yet never flowered. 
I grew it on rockwork, I grew it in shade, I grew it in 
the sun. It formed bushy little plants, but never had a 
single flower. My patience was nearly coming to an end, 
and I fell back on the gardener's usual solace — that the 
soil did not suit it. When I paid a visit to Mr. Thompson 
of Ipswich I found it flowering most satisfactorily, and 
learnt from him the eternal story that what it wanted 
was good feeding. It should have very good rich soil, 
plenty of manure, and be put in a place that is free from 
damp in winter. This is the difficulty with so many of 
the foreign plants we try to grow. They want damp in 
their flowering- time, when we are dry ; and dryness in the 
winter, when we are wet. I came home, broke up my 
Zauschneria, planted it in on the edge of a raised vine- 
border in full sunshine and with very well rotted manure. 
Helped, no doubt, also by the sunny season, it has 
flowered splendidly this year, and is even finer than the 
one I had seen at Ipswich. I think it is the better, like 
many other things, for watering when the buds are 
formed. I see in an un-modern gardening book that it only 
came to England in 1847. We find no difliculty in pro- 
pagating it by division in spring. Cuttings strike easily 
in a little heat, and form blooming plants in the same 
season. 

Phloxes have done very badly this year, whether 



24 MORE POT-POURRI 

removed from the reserve garden or left alone. In very 
dry seasons it is best quickly to cut them down ; they 
flower again well when the rain comes. Michauxia cam- 
panuloides is flowering now for the second time. I have 
never grown it before, and its first bloom was in June, 
while I was away, so that I did not see it in its prime. 
The seed unfortunately does not ripen here, but it seems 
to me a plant worthy of all the trouble that biennials 
give ; and experiments should be tried in growing it. I 
am now going to try it grown the second year in pots, 
under glass, in a cool house, in the same way as a 
Campanula pyramidalis is grown. I expect it will be 
very fine. When grown out of doors it should be moved 
from the seed-bed into a dry sunny place, and it wants as 
much water as you can give it when about to flower. It is 
figured in vol. xvii. of Curtis's ' Botanical Magazine,' but 
the flower there depicted gives little idea of the beauty of 
the whole plant, although the unusual shape and love- 
liness of the flower itself are well rendered. Michauxia 
tchinatchewii (see Thompson's Hst) is new to me and, I 
am told, good. 

The Belladonna Lilies, treated as described in my 
first book, have flowered excellently, many having two 
flower-stems from apparently the same bulb. I imme- 
diately sent to Holland for two dozen more, as I beheve 
there has been a disease among them in some places and 
that they are now rather scarce. As an example of how 
small a thing will affect the flowering of Cape bulbs, I 
noted this spring that the leaves in the more northern 
part of my little bed got injured by frost and east vsrind — 
not very severely, but sUghtly — and out of that dozen 
bulbs only one flowered. 

A favourite httle plant of mine which I have had for 
years has flowered unusually well this year. It is called 
Tricyrtis hirta, and is a small Japanese Lily — very quiet in 



SEPTEMBER 25 

colour, and spotted all over with lilac spots ; but beautiful 
in its growth, and well worth cultivating. The dry rock- 
work seems to suit it, but I generally water it when 
coming into flower. Every year as it comes round it is a 
pleasurable excitement to see it develop its late flowers. 
In a book by Mrs. Brightwen (' Glimpses into Plant Life : 
an Easy Guide to the Study of Botany,' Eisher Unwin) 
it is alluded to as a typical pollenation plant. She 
says : ' We have seen that there are all kinds of 
devices by which the pollen of one flower may be made 
sure to reach the stigma of another ; but if by any means 
this crossing fails, it the weather is such that insects are 
scarce or other conditions cause failure, then, in the case 
of many flowers, most curious contrivances are provided 
to secure seed by self-pollenation. Truly this is one of 
the most beautiful of God's wonders in floral construction. 
One of the gems of my own flower-garden is a lovely 
little Japanese toad-lily {Tricyrtis hirta). In this flower 
there are three styles which stand well above the stamens ; 
the points of the styles are bent over, and the stigmatic 
surface grows mature before the anthers shed their pollen. 
If, however, no insect visits the flowers, pollenation is 
effected in the following way : the styles bend down and 
place their forked points in direct contact with the open 
anther-lobes, the style assuming almost the form of a 
semicircle. This is done very deliberately, for it is often 
a week before the act is complete.' I think that ' Glimpses 
into Plant Life ' is a book that everyone interested in 
country life or a garden would very much enjoy. The 
illustrations are clear and good, and explain the text 
satisfactorily. 

Nothing is more useful at this time of year in a 
window or a greenhouse than the Vallota purpurea. It is 
perfectly easy of cultivation, if the leaves are encouraged 
in their growth and thoroughly sunned and dried off.- 



26 MORE POT-POURRI 

The bulb should be very rarely re-potted and well 
watered in its growing state. I am always hearing that 
people lose their plants ; this is probably from the 
gardener's over-care and keeping them too warm and 
wet through the winter. I am going to try them out of 
doors next year, as Mr. Eobinson recommends, now that 
I have plenty of offsets, but I confess I have never seen 
them doing well in England out of doors. They probably 
do not fear cold, as I saw many in full flower on cottage 
window-sills in Norway. 

The west sides of rockeries are often very dull, 
especially in autumn. I find Origanum hyhridum is a 
charming, interesting, curious little plant that flowers 
freely in a dry place in August and September. It is 
almost exactly the same as the old 0. dictainnus figured 
in vol. xix. of Curtis's 'Botanical Magazine.' Curtis 
says : ' Turner, whose Herbal was printed in 1568 
writes thus concerning it : "I have seen it growynge in 
England in Master Eiches gardin naturally, but it 
groweth nowhere ellis that I know of saving only in 
Candy." ' This is rather a nice way of telling us where 
the plant comes from. It seems easy of cultivation, and 
worth growing. Caryopteris macranthe is a little blue 
dwarf shrub that I have hardly ever seen anywhere, but 
which I grow and increase here quite easily, and find it 
very attractive. It Virants a dry situation, and flowers 
better if cut back after flowering. It should be fed with 
a little mulching and watering when it comes into bud. 
I increase it easily from cuttings in spring. 

As time goes on I become fonder and fonder of the 
generally abused Polygonums. Mr. Eobinson, in his latest 
edition of ' The English Flower Garden,' speaks of them also 
with much favour, and gives a splendid list of the varieties ; 
but even he does not lay stress enough upon what entirely 
different plants they become if sufficiently thinned out and 



SEPTEMBER 27 

the suckers pulled off each spring. Otherwise they are 
ragged, intolerable weeds. If P. sachalinense is planted 
even under shade or in half-shade, thinned out to three or 
four shoots, and watered or hosed in dry weather, the 
yearly growth is absolutely tropical. It turns a rich yel- 
low colour in early autumn, and forms a splendid feature 
in places where many plants would not grow at all, such as 
under Fir-trees or in very poor soil. P. molh I do not 
think Mr. Eobinson names, and yet it is a beautiful 
thing ; though some years, if in an exposed place, it flowers 
so late that it gets injured by frost. It requires dividing 
every autumn, re-planting in better soil, and thinning 
every spring ; it is well, if it can be watered, to grow it 
under some tree or shrub, which protects it in case of 
early frost. It is worth some trouble, as its flowering 
branches, almost like feathery white lilac, are very hand- 
some, coming as they do so late in the year. P. UicMUni 
is a very dwarf kind I brought from Germany, and will, I 
think, prove a useful little plant on the rockery for 
September flowering. The light blue Cape Plumbago 
cwpensis is doing very well this hot year, and is covered, 
out of doors, with its lovely cool china-blue flowers. No 
other colour in the garden is quite like it. It looks 
especially well planted against the posts of a verandah. 
"We pot up the old plants in October, cut them back, tie 
them up — when they take very little room — and keep them 
rather dry aU the winter in a cold shed just safe from the 
frost. We bring them on a little in the spring, and plant 
them out the end of May against a warm wall, though 
I am not at all sure that this last is necessary. All 
, they want is sunshine and copious waterings. They are 
commonly treated in this way in German gardens. 
Mr. Eobinson says they can be increased by division of 
the roots, but we also find cuttings strike easily in 
spring ; and three or four young plants in a pot, as they 



28 MORE POT-POURRI 

flower at the top, are very pretty in a greenhouse or 
window. Solanum jasminoides can be treated in exactly 
the same way, though it will live out through ordinary 
winters, especially if sheltered by some other growth. 

Last spring my jealousy was excited by seeing 
Camellias flowering very well out of doors. The prin- 
ciple on which they were managed was to plant them in 
a thick shrubbery with overhanging branches of Ehodo- 
dendron or some other evergreen shrub. The ground 
was prepared with a good deal of peat. In consequence 
of the successful healthy look of these Camellias I have 
myself planted out two large old trees. The great 
secret of success is that they should face due north, and 
be well watered in dry weather. If Dielytra spectabilis 
is planted in the same way, facing north and under the 
protection of some shrub, it flowers well out of doors. It 
always gets injured by spring winds and frosts in the 
open borders here. 

September 10th. — All the Punkias are worth growing, 
but all might be left out of a small garden except Funkia 
sieboldi. That, anyhow, must be grown out of doors, as 
it is a beautiful plant, gives no trouble, flowers every 
year, and lasts very well in water. If kept in a pot it 
flowers at the same time as out of doors, but under glass 
the flowers are distinctly finer. It is not very often seen, 
but is quite the handsomest, I think, of the Funkias. 

A friend asks me to recommend a really good book on 
the kitchen garden, including the proper treatment of 
fruit-trees. I know no one book complete ; the information 
on vegetables and fruit must be gleaned apart. For detailed 
directions on the culture of vegetables none comes near 
the translation of Vilmorin's, mentioned before. But for 
ordinary purposes and as a cheap book Sutton's ' The 
Culture of Vegetables and Flowers ' (Simpkin, Marshall, 
Hamilton, Kent & Co.) is excellent. ' Profitable Fruit- 



SEPTEMBER 29 

growing,' by John Wright, F.E.H.S. (171 Fleet Street, 
London), is clear, comprehensive, and concise, giving 
excellent information on pruning and general cultivation 
of all outdoor fruit-trees, and currants, gooseberries, and 
raspberries. It makes no allusion to orchard houses, nor 
to vines under glass or out of doors. 

Samphire is a herb I have never yet tried to grow. I 
believe it is only to be had wild in its integrity from 
Norfolk, where they still make quite an industry of 
gathering and pickling it. The fresh Samphire is only to 
be found in August and September. 

A critic in ' The Guardian ' on ' Pot-Pourri ' says it is a 
mistake to prune Chymonanthus fragrans after flowering 
in the winter, as I suggested ; and adds, ' it should be done 
late in the summer by shortening back the year's growths 
to a quarter of their own length or less, to throw the 
vigour of the shrub into the short flowering spur rather 
than let it run into long, leafy and flowerless branches.' 
I think this quite true, but I call that cutting-back. 
What I mean by ' pruning ' is taking out real branches, and 
I think that is desirable here in this light soil with 
nearly all the flowering shrubs directly after flowering, 
as well as cutting-back later in the year if they make too 
much growth. 

I wonder the claret-coloured Vine is so seldom 
planted. The foliage is handsome and efifective, and the 
little bunches of black grapes are interesting, and remind 
one of the ornaments in early Gothic churches. The 
stunted bunches are quite different in shape from those 
of ordinary grapes. They grow well up a pole, and make 
a good rough arch. Pancretiums are excellent green- 
house plants and well worth growing, especially P. 
fragrans. But in a small garden and greenhouse all these 
bulbs and plants want remembering and looking after in 
order to get a good succession, and the head of the 



30 MORE POT-POURRI 

garden must help the gardener, as it is absolutely 
impossible, with the number of things requiring his con- 
stant attention, that he should remember them all himself. 

September 11th. — ^What a week of excitement this has 
been, even for those without near relations in that far- 
away Nile Valley ! Never in all my life do I remember 
what might be called the aggressive, grasping, ruling 
spirit of the typical John Bull to have been so united 
and so universal. War and the pity of it, and the ques- 
tion why it has to be, which was so strong a feeUng and 
which had such large numbers of supporters in the old 
Crimean day and even in the Indian Mutiny time, 
seems now simply non-existent. Is this gain or is it 
loss? Is it progress or is it retrogression? A most 
curious and, to me, poetic description, showing the con- 
servativeness of the East, and how certain effects suggest- 
ing certain word-paintings were the same in the time of 
David as to-day, struck me very forcibly when I read it 
in yesterday's ' Spectator,' and I record it here. That a 
figure of speech which has long puzzled somewhat 
ignorant Bible commentators should be explained, as with 
a limelight flash, by the unconscious wording of a war- 
correspondent of to-day seems indeed a drawing together 
of all historic times : 

' The telegraphic despatch conveying the news of the 
battle of Omdurman contained an interesting illustration 
of a verse of the sixty-eighth Psalm which has caused 
some difficulty to commentators. The Prayer Book ver- 
sion reads (verse 14) : " When the Almighty scattered 
kings for their sake : then were they as white as snow in 
Salmon " — i.e., as generally explained, the flashing of the 
armour of the slain warriors resembled the snow shining 
on the dark boughs of the forest. Unconsciously perhaps 
the writer of the telegraphic despatch has used the same 
simile. His words are : " After the dense mass of the 



SEPTEMBER 31 

Dervishes had melted to companies and the companies to 
driblets, they broke and fled, leaving the field white with 
jibba-clad corpses, like a meadow dotted with snowdrifts." ' 

Is this really the last of these snow-flecked plains, or 
will another Mahdi and other Dervishes arise in future 
ages, to once more strew the ground with these white-clad 
corpses ? 

September IBth. — Last year, about this time, I drove 
to Mr. Barr's at LongDitton, and there I saw, planted out 
in an open bed, Tigridias, both white and red ; and they 
looked splendid. I have never seen them grown out of 
doors in gardens, but Mrs. Loudon in her ' Ladies' Plower 
Garden ' (the volume on bulbous plants) speaks of them as 
easily cultivated if taken up in the autumn. Mrs. Loudon 
says : ' They have tunicated bulbs and very long fibrous 
roots which descend perpendicularly. They should be 
planted in a very deep rich soil, which should either be of 
an open nature, or be kept so by a mixture of a sufficient 
quantity of sand, so as to allow a free passage for the 
descent of the roots, in the same way as is necessary for 
Hyacinths. If Tigridias are to be raised from seed, the 
seeds are sown in March or April on a hot-bed and 
transplanted into the open border in May. Here they 
may remain till the leaves begin to wither in autumn, 
when the young bulbs should be taken up and kept for 
planting the ensuing spring. The splendid colours of 
this flower and the easiness of its culture render it a 
general favourite. Its only faults are that its flowers 
have no fragrance, and that they are of very short 
duration, never lasting more than a day. But they are 
produced in such abundance in succession as to com- 
pensate for this defect. It is a native of Mexico. In its 
native country its bulb is considered medicinal, and it 
was on this account that it was sent to Europe by 
Hernandez, physician to Philip II. of Spain, when he 



32 MORE POT-POURRI 

was employed by the Spanish Government to examine 
into ' the virtues ' of the plants of the New World. It 
was not introduced into England till 1796. It is suffi- 
ciently hardy to be left in the ground all the winter, were 
it not on account of the danger to which it would be 
exposed from damp. It is better to take it up in 
September or October, tie it in bundles, and hang it up 
in a dry place till spring. "Why it is always grown by 
gardeners in pots I do not know. In his last edition 
Mr. Eobinson speaks very favourably of growing it out of 
doors, and mentions particularly the ivory-white one vyith 
carmine-red base, which I saw last year and thought very 
beautiful. What he says about cultivation is exactly 
what I have quoted above from Mrs. Loudon. In fact, 
treat them exactly as one would the Gandavensis gladioli. 
Gerarde in his Herbal speaks with dehghtful distrust 
of the very existence of the Tigridia as described 
by travellers. After trying to illustrate the plant from 
description he goes on to say: 'The second feigned 
picture hath beene taken of the Discouerer and others of 
later time, to be a kinde of Dragons not seene of any that 
haue written thereof ; which hath moued them to thinke 
it a feigned picture likewise ; notwithstanding you shall 
reoeiue the description thereof as it hath come to my 
hands. The root (saith my Author) is bulbous or Onion 
fashion, outwardly blacke ; from the which springs vp 
long leaues, sharpe pointed, narrow, and of a fresh greene 
colour : in the middest of which leaues rise vp naked or 
bare stalkes, at the top whereof groweth a pleasant 
yellow floure, stained with many small red spots here 
and there confusedly cast abroad : and in the middest of 
the floure thrusteth forth a long red tongue or stile, 
which in time groweth to be the cod or seed-vessell, 
crooked or wreathed, wherein is the seed. The virtues 
and temperature are not to be spoken of, considering that 



SEPTEMBER 33 

we assuredly persuade our selues that there are no such 
plants, but meere fictions and deuioes, as we terme them, 
to giue his friend a gudgeon.' ' Giving his friend a 
gudgeon ' is apparently a Gerardian expression for what 
we should now call in familiar language * pulling his 
leg.' 

I alluded before (page 132 of ' Pot-Pourri ') to the 
cultivation of the large Japanese Stonecrop {Sedum 
spectabile). I have grown to like it more and more, 
because it is a very obliging plant, and will grow even in 
shade, though the specimens are far finer if grown in good 
soil and moved into a sunny place in July or August. I 
always take this little trouble, and in September I have 
my reward. Many people wiU not appreciate the great 
beauties of this plant because of the colour of the flowers, 
which are of rather an inartistic magenta-pink ; but 
the insects do not find this so, and the reason I grow so 
much of it is that the bees simply love it. The httle hard- 
working honey-bee, the large handsome bumble-bee, flies 
and beetles of aU kinds, and the beautiful common butter- 
flies, all flop about it with the keenest enjoyment, the 
colour of the flower only making a groundwork to their 
bright hues on a sunny September morning. I never fail 
either to think, as I look at this scene, of a little poem 
by Victor Hugo which was the delight of my youth, though 
perhaps for non-floral reasons : 

La pauvre fleur disait au papillon celeste : 

' Ne fuis pas ! 
Vois comme nos destins sont diffcSrents, Je reste, 

Tu t'en vas 1 

' Pourtant nous nous aimons, nous vivons sans les hommos 

Et loin d'eux, 
Et nous nous ressemblons, et Ton dit que nous sommes 

Fleurs tous deux t 



34 MORE POT-POURRI 

' Mais, hdlas ! I'air t'emporte et la terre m'enchalne ; 

Sort cruel ! 
Je voudrais embaumer ton vol de mon haleine 

Dans le ciel 1 

' Mais non, tu vas trop loin ! Parmi des fleurs sans nombre 

Vous fuyez, 
Et moi je reste seul k voir tourner mon ombre 

A mes pieds I 

' Tu fuis, puis tu reviens, puis tu t'en vas encore 

Luire ailleurs. 
Aussi me trouves-tu toujours & chaque aurore 

Toute en pleurs 1 

' Oh ! pour que notre amour coule des jours fiddles, 

mon roi ; 
Prends comme moi racine, ou donne moi des ailes 

Comme il toi I ' 

Now and then quite strange insects appear just once, 
and then never again. I have heard that is because eggs 
of insects are sometimes deposited in baskets or bales 
bringing goods from hot countries, which in dry summers 
are hatched out in these Northern cHmates. One summer 
my Sedums were covered with a lovely green beetle. I 
have never seen him again, but I am tcfo ignorant to know 
if he were a stranger or only an insect common in our 
gardens and appearing in some summers and not in 
others — a usual occurrence with aU insects. Sometimes 
there are a quantity of one kind, they having triumphed 
over their natural enemies and flourished abundantly. 
Then for a year or two they disappear entirely. This is 
an especial characteristic of butterflies. I thought there 
might be some way of encouraging butterflies in my 
garden, where they seem to have become rarer, and I 
asked a friend who has studied natural history all his life 
whether he could help me to do this. His answer was : 
' The way to have butterflies is to encourage the food- 



SEPTEMBER 35 

plants of the caterpillar.' He added : ' Fortunately our 
three handsomest English butterflies feed on the nettle 
— the Peacock, the Small Tortoiseshell, and the Bed 
Admiral. The Purple Emperor is too rare for considera- 
tion.' I, being a gardener before all things, did not think 
it was at all fortunate that their natural food was nettles. 
I had spent my whole life in eradicating nettles, so it is 
perhaps not astonishing if butterflies have become less in 
my garden. 

We have had a great many Figs this year, and they 
have ripened well. No doubt they do better since we 
have removed suckers and the small autumn Figs that 
never ripen here. It is curious how few people in England 
realise that, apparently, the Fig never flowers, and that 
what we call the fruit is the flower. Male and female 
mixed are inside the Pig, which when it enlarges forms the 
receptacle and encloses numerous one-seeded carpels im- 
bedded in its pulp. This may be seen quite plainly by 
cutting open a slightly unripe Fig. I used to think the 
flower of the Fig was so small that it was invisible ! My 
little Mulberry-tree, planted only fifteen years ago and 
now a good size, did wonderfully well this year. All 
over England Mulberries fruited in great quantities 
from the hot dry season. They are trees that 
require much judicious pruning, and taking out great 
branches now and then, or the fruit never ripens 
because of the size and thickness of the leaves. I have 
lately read that Leonardo da Vinci's great patron at 
Milan, Ludovico il Moro, was so named, not from the dark- 
ness of his complexion, as Gibbon supposes, but because 
he took a Mulberry-tree {moro) for his device — from its 
being considered vdser than all other trees, as it buds later 
and does not flower until it has escaped the injuries of 
winter, when it immediately bears fruit. This the Prince 
considered was emblematic of his disposition. To us it 

d2 



36 MORE POT-POURRI 

means tliat Mulberry-trees should be much more grown 
than they are, not only because they are beautiful and 
useful, but because of this late budding. The fruit is ex- 
cellent cooked with Apples, even if it is not quite ripe. 
Sweet Spanish Chestnuts are also very late trees in spring. 

Sweet-scented Geraniums cut back in the spring do 
best for autumn and winter. For planting out the next 
year they should be cut back hard, like show Pelargoniums, 
at the end of September. 

My trees of Magnolia grandiflora, though still small, 
are covered this year with their beautiful flowers. These 
are, I am sure, best always cut off. It only strengthens 
the trees for forming flower-buds next year. 

September 15th. — For those who care to have Sweet- 
peas early in the year, it is well to sow them now in the 
drills or holes, so as to earth them up a little after they 
come through the soU. 

Cassia corymhosa is a yellow greenhouse plant now in 
flower and very useful. It is so nearly hardy that it will 
grow, hke the blue Plumbago, against a south wall in the 
summer months. It comes from Buenos Ayres, and won't 
stand any frost. 

September 25th.— 1 saw a Suffolk garden this September 
where I learnt more in an hour than one would do in 
most places in a week. It was a beautiful, stately, flat 
garden and on a very large scale, with tall trees and broad 
expanses of lawn, which, in spite of my opinion stated 
before, and which angered so many of my readers (about 
overdoing grass in small places), I do immensely admire 
when sufficiently spacious and with spreading timber 
feathering to the ground. I saw in this garden the finest 
tubs of Hydrangeas I have ever seen anywhere. They 
were much raised above the ground, on a half -tub reversed 
or on bricks, so that the plants, which had been left alone 
for many years, fell all round, covering the tubs almost 



SEPTEMBER 37 

entirely. The tubs were painted ■white, and the gardener 
told me that instead of putting them into any house or 
shed in winter he put them under very thick shrubs. In 
his case he was fortunate to have an Ilex grove. Nothing 
was cut off the Hydrangeas but the faded flowers. By 
this means they get the damp and cold which only 
strengthen them in their resting state. In the spring he 
cuts out the dead wood, mulches and copiously waters 
them when they begin to grow, and the result was 
certainly most satisfactory. Hydrangeas strike very 
easily in spring; and small young plants, especially if 
white or blue — which the pink ones will often turn to if 
planted in peat — make useful small decorative plants in 
a greenhouse or for late flowering. The tubs of Cape 
Agapanthus were less fine in foliage than mine are ; but 
they had spike upon spike of bloom, which is really what 
one wants. He treated these in the same way as before 
described for Hydrangeas, leaving them out all the winter. 
Mine were kept in a cool greenhouse, and looked perfectly 
healthy, but had hardly any flowers at all this year. It's 
the old story. Everything from the Cape stands many kinds 
of treatment, but must have a long period of rest in order 
to flower well. Under a tall wall facing west in this Suffolk 
garden was a glorious border of many of the hardiest 
Bamboos, with a few strong-growing herbaceous plants in 
between and towards the front. The soil, in spite of the 
dryness of the year, was moist and very heavy, and the 
gardener told me he never dug up the border or touched 
it except to thin out and dig a big wedge out of the 
herbaceous plants with his spade in winter, filling up the 
hole with strong manure well stamped in. This, where size 
of clumps and filling up of large spaces are wanted, is 
quite an admirable plan. No re-planting is either neces- 
sary or desirable. In a small garden and hght soil, where 
refinement and specimen plants are desired, re-planting 



38 MORE POT-POURRI 

and dividing, as well as thinning out, certainly seem 
to me to give finer blooms. On the top of a low wall 
dividing this garden from another portion of it were some 
flower-boxes well filled with traihng and half-hardy plants, 
brilliant in colour and easy to water and attend to ; and 
the effect was very good, and might be adopted on those 
dreary little walls that sometimes divide small viUa gardens 
from their neighbours. The evaporation from painted 
wood is very much less than from flower-pots, and there 
is no fear of their being thrown over by a high wind. 

Going about, I observe that — next to pruning and 
cutting back — there is nothing people are so ignorant 
about as watering, especially in dry weather. The 
ordinary non-gardening mind seems to think that if a 
thing looks blighted or faded or drooping, it is ' below par/ 
and that water acts as the required tonic ; whereas it is 
often that the dry weather has only hastened the period 
of rest, and when that is the case nothing is so hopeless as 
watering anything that is not in full growth. Consequently 
in mixed borders, unless very carefully done, to a plant 
that is coming into bud, watering — and, above all, hosing — 
is best left alone ; and much watering in the summer is 
very injurious to spring-flowering shrubs. At the same time 
copious soaking once or twice a week is necessary very 
often to keep newly planted things aUve. Half-hardy 
planted-out things, annuals, and plants lately moved from 
the reserve garden, can safely be watered. In this Suffolk 
garden aU watering was done at four or five in the morn- 
ing, the gardeners leaving off work at two in the afternoon. 
This plan, I think, would often work very well both for 
masters and men dm-ing the long hot days, but gardeners 
seldom like it. 



SEPTEMBER 39 



Ebceipts 

I indiscreetly asked one of my rather intimate friends 
whether he had read ' Pot-Pourri.' He said, rather 
hastily : ' No, I gave it to my cook.' This impressed 
me with the idea that a good number of people valued 
the first ' Pot-Pourri ' a great deal more for its cooking 
receipts than for anything else. Consequently the book 
quickly leaves the library or the drawing-room for the 
kitchen, and I think it would be a distinct assistance to 
the cook if I keep these new receipts as much as possible 
together, though I allot them a place in each month, as 
the times and seasons have such a great influence on 
food and garden produce. In this book I reserve to 
myself the right to spell recipe ' receipt,' to which some 
of my friends objected before. I was taught that recipe 
meant a prescription, and it always seems to me a slight 
affectation when I see it in a cookery book. I believe 
' receipt ' to be quite as old and good a word used in this 
sense. In an old cookery book of mine which was 
written by a lady and published in 1770 the word ' is 
spelt ' receipt.' 

I take a great interest in cooks, and am always most 
anxious to help them, having agreed from my youth 
upwards with Owen Meredith's delicious lines in 
' Lucile ' : 

We may live without poetry, music, and art ; 

We may live without conscience, and live without heart ; 

We may live without friends ; we may live without boots ; 

But civilised man cannot live without cooks. 

He may live without books — what is knowledge hut grieving ? 

He may live without hope — what is hope but deceiving ? 

He may live without love — what is passion but pining ? 

But where is the man that can live without dining ? 

There have been some complaints about the cooking 



40 MORE POT-POURRI 

receipts not being exact enough. I had tried them all 
myself, and with success, with several cooks, but I do 
not deny they were intended for those who understood 
cooking sufficiently to refer to more detailed books when 
they felt themselves to be ignorant. I shall continue to 
refer to ' Dainty Dishes ' (by Lady Harriet St. Clair) as I 
did before, and without it my receipts are incomplete. 
Cooks differ very much in how they follow receipts. 
Some try to do it literally, but without judgment as 
regards increasing or decreasing quantities according to 
the number for whom they have to cook. Other cooks 
accept a receipt with the distinct conviction that their 
own way is far the best, and naturally then the new 
receipt does not turn out very satisfactorily. A good 
many cooks carry out a receipt very well the first time, 
and then think they know it by heart, and in a high- 
handed way never look at it again. All this is where the 
eye and the head of the mistress come in. Without 
showing it she must know the peculiarities of her own 
particular cook, and by gentle flattery lead her back into 
the right way. ■ As my excuse for a certain vagueness 
in some of the receipts, I give them as they were given to 
me, for I did not by any means invent them all. Even 
when they are mine, I instruct the cook, but do not myself 
cook. 

Some of my nieces scolded me for not putting the 
receipt for my bread sauce in my last book, saying they 
so seldom found it really good elsewhere. It is made in 
every EngUsh kitchen, small and big ; and yet how very 
rarely is it excellent, as it ought to be, and with what 
horror is it viewed by foreigners ! 

Bread Sauce. — It is very important that the bread 
should be grated from a tin loaf, and allowed to dry in a 
paper bag for some time before using it. It is absolutely 
impossible to make good bread sauce with new bread. 



SEPTEMBER 41 

Cut up an onion in rather large pieces, boil it in milk, 
pass it through a sieve, or remove the onion. Pour the 
milk boiling over the crumbs, and add a few peppercorns. 
Boil the vs^hole in a china saucepan for about twenty 
minutes. As the milk is absorbed, add a little more until 
it is an even mass, neither too moist nor too dry. 
Eemove the peppercorns before serving, and stir in a 
large piece of fresh butter. Many people add cream, 
which spoils it. Cream makes the sauce tasteless and 
fade. 

The following is a much simpler receipt, and suggests 
a poultice rather more than I quite like ; but it is excellent 
to eat, and useful to know, as it can be carried out in a 
sick-room or a lodging-house kitchen. Take a breakfast- 
cupful of fresh breadcrumbs, rubbed, not grated; a 
breakfastcupful of milk. Cut up into it an onion, 
and add two or three peppercorns. Boil the milk up 
and pour it on the crumbs, which have been put into a 
small basin. Cover over, and let it stand for two hours. 
Eemove any pieces of onion that show. Warm up before 
it is wanted with a small piece of fresh butter the size of 
a walnut. 

It is also, under the same circumstances, useful to 
know that chickens or game of any kind can be perfectly 
well roasted in a baking-tin on a little kettle-stand in 
front of any ordinary fire in the following way : Put a little 
bacon fat in the pan, lay the bird in it on its side with 
the back towards the fire. Baste well. When sufficiently 
done, turn it on to the other leg, with the back still 
towards the fire. For ten minutes at the end, with a 
large fowl or pheasant, turn the breast to the fire, 
basting it well. The time a bird will take to roast must 
depend on its size. Woodcocks, snipe, and larks will 
take a very short time. 

Vegetable Marrow. —Peel a young vegetable 



42 MORE POT-POURRI 

marrow, cut it across in slices the thickness of a finger, 
and put them in a tin in a moderate oven with a little 
piece of butter on each. Bake for nearly an hour. Pre- 
pare some pieces of toast slightly buttered and hot. Lay 
a slice of the vegetable marrow on each piece. Warm in 
butter a little of the sweet-chutney (see ' Pot-Pourri,' 
page 126), put half a teaspoonful of it on to each 
sUce, and serve. 

If vegetable marrows get past being young, let them 
ripen well, then dry and store them on a shelf in the 
fruit-house or elsewhere. In winter break one up by 
hammering a knife through it, clean out the seeds, cut 
the pieces into small dice half an inch square, boil them 
with very little salt in cold water till soft, strain them, and 
make a nice thick white sauce {B&chameVj . Put the marrow 
in the sauce, add a small piece of sugar, and serve hot. 
Pumpkins can be treated in the same way. 

If you have grown the little ridge cucumbers — those 
recommended in Sutton's book do very well either in a 
cool house or outside — and have bad any left over in this 
month, which I never have, this German receipt for pre- 
serving them — in Germany they always grow them in 
large quantities — is very useful and good. 

Cueumlbeps preserved in salt (in a barrel or stone 

jar). — Pick the outdoor cucumbers when about three 

inches long and one inch thick. Brush them in a large 

tub of cold water tiU quite clean. Spread them on a table 

to dry. Meanwhile boil up a large quantity of water. 

Measure it carefuUy, and for each quart of water add a 

V small teacupful of salt and a small teacupful of vinegar. 

1^ Boil all well together, and let it get cold. Then put some 

^vine-leaves, fennel, tarragon, pimpernel, and a few bay- 

^yjpaves and peppercorns at the bottom of a small barrel or 

•^ stone jar. Place four layers of cucumber, one of herbs and 

leaves, and so on till full. Cover the top thickly with 



SEPTEMBER 43 

leaves and pour on the salt water till the jar is quite full. 
Put a clean slate over the top of the jar, and weight it with 
& stone. They should stand for at least six weeks. 

A Puree of Vegetables.— A pretty dish can be made 
with a purde of any kind of green vegetable surrounded 
by macaroni cut into small pieces, boiled plain with a little 
onion in the water, drained, and warmed up in a little 
strong stock (or water), butter, and a little sugar. The 
New Zealand Spinach or the Spinach Beet is sure to be 
still quite good in the garden. 

A friend of mine who has been much in the Bast 
makes the following comments on my curry receipt and 
my cooking of rice : ' You say meat in curry is to be cut 
in dice. An old Indian uncle of mine always taught his 
cooks to make curries, and there were never better 
curries ; and he always said. No dice, but thinnish slices 
about the size of two small mouthfuls. I think he was 
right.' The Indian uncle also said that rice can never be 
really properly cooked except in earthenware vessels. I 
think I agree with both these criticisms. 

Here is a good receipt for those troubled with a super- 
abundance of grouse. 

Grouse Salad. — Select fresh salad material. Place 
this in a shallow dish on which has been constructed a 
border of hard-boiled eggs, set off with pieces of anchovies 
and sliced beetroot. 

Saiice. — Two tablespoonfuls of eschalots minced 
small, seven teaspoonfuls of chopped tarragon and 
chervil, five dessertspoonfuls of pounded sugar, the 
yolks of two eggs, five saltspoonfuls of pepper and salt 
mixed, and a very small pinch of cayenne. Mix slowly 
with twelve or thirteen tablespoonfuls of salad oil and six 
dessertspoonfuls of chilli vinegar. Add half a pint of 
whipped cream. 

The grouse may be roasted or fried. Build up 



44 MORE POT-POURRI 

the grouse tastefully in pyramidal form on the green- 
stuff, then pour the sauce over the whole, and serve. 

This receipt for pickled damsons was sent me by one 
of my very kind readers, with a bottle of the same, which 
certainly was quite excellent. 

Pickled Damsons. — Six pounds of damsons, six 
pounds of sugar, two quarts of vinegar, quarter of an 
ounce of cinnamon (stick), quarter of an ounce of cloves, 
one onion (about as large as a nutmeg), half table- 
spoonful of cayenne tied in muslin, and a little salt. 

Put all except the damsons into a pan and boU ; then 
pour the liquid over the fruit, and allow the whole to remain 
until the next day, when strain it, putting the fruit back 
into a basin ; boil up the liquid, and pour it over the fruit 
again. Let the whole stand for another twenty-four hours, 
and on the third day boU. for four or five minutes. Strain 
and press through a sieve, to remove the stones and skins. 
The pickle will then be ready to bottle for use. 

Both the following receipts are Belgian. The eight 
stumps of endive make my economical hair stand on 
end, as the curly endive, which is the one intended, 
is a very shy grower in this hot soil, and we blanch 
it rather preciously under boards for November salads. 
But the broad-leaved Batavian endive is very nearly as 
good, only it requires longer cooking. Take eight stumps 
of endive, a good bit of butter (say, the size of two walnuts), 
a good teaspoonful of flour, half a teacupful of milk, 
and a little salt. Throw away the bad leaves, cut the 
others in small pieces tiU near the stump. Wash several 
times, so that the sand may sink. Let the endive boil in 
plenty of water with a httle salt for about an hour ; then 
put it on a sieve to drip out well. Make a sauce of the 
mUk, flour, and butter, and let it stew for a few minutes. 

Purslane. — The purslane after being picked and 
washed is put on a gentle fire to melt, without adding 



SEPTEMBER 45 

any water. When quite soft add some salt (a very little) 
to taste. If too watery, pour it off; then add butter (a 
rather larger piece than the size of a walnut), and care- 
fully mix a well-beaten egg ; or, if this does not suit the 
taste, bind it with a little flour. 

Here is an excellent aromatic herb-seasoning which 
does equally well for use with vegetables or meat. I 
found it in an old-fashioned book called ' The Gentle- 
woman,' published in 1864, which I shall notice again 
further on. The author took this receipt from Francatelli, 
the famous cook of the day. Take of nutmegs one 
ounce ; mace, one ounce ; cloves, two ounces ; dried 
bay-leaves, one ounce; basil, three ounces; marjoram, 
three ounces ; winter savoury, two ounces ; thyme, three 
ounces ; cayenne pepper, half an ounce ; grated lemon- 
peel, half an ounce ; two cloves of garlic. All to be well 
pulverised in a mortar and sifted through a fine wire 
sieve, and put away in dry corked bottles. We made 
this last year, and used it frequently through the winter 
for flavouring a great many things, such as ptiries of 
cabbage, preserved French beans, soups, sauces, etc. I 
reduced the cayenne pepper to half the prescribed 
quantity. 

BlaekbePPy Jelly. — Boil the blackberries. Strain 
them and stiffen with isinglass. This keeps splendidly, 
and is not too sweet. 



46 MORE POT POURRI 



OCTOBER 

Gardening — Echeverias — Ignorance about bulbs — Gossamer time and 
insects— The East Coast— A new rockery — Oxalis floribunda as 
a vegetable — Previous ' Pot-Pourris ' — Cooking receipts, various 
—Journey to Frankfort in 1897 — Cronberg — Boecklin's Todten- 
Insel —Jewish Cemetery — Goethe's house— Staedal Art Institute 
— German treatment of tuberculosis. 

October 5th. — The other day I was going round the 
garden, giving away plants, when I came to a bed where 
there were several fine Echeverias. They had been 
planted out to grow naturally into better plants. I 
offered my friend some, but she said with a shudder : 
' What ! those artichoke-looking things ? No, thank you.' 
I think the dislike of these plants arises very likely from 
their having been used so much in those old-fashioned 
beds arranged in fancy designs as ugly and incongruous 
as the patterns on a Turkish smoking-cap. 

These plants are not only kind friends that give little 
trouble, and can be grown in pots and allowed to assume 
their natural growth, but they are also exceedingly 
beautiful. I have an Echeveria inetalUca crispa grown to 
a large plant in a pot. It has been perhaps retarded in its 
growth by dryness this summer, and is now throwing up 
a fine pink flower-spike. The whole tone of the plant is 
lovely to a degree, shot with pale purples, grays, and 
pinks, and as full of drawing as the cone of an Italian 
pine. The thick stem is beautifully marked by the leaves 
as they have dried up and fallen away. The plant is 
altogether very picturesque in its quaint growth, and 



OCTOBER 47 

admirably adapted for a room or window-sill in late 
autumn, and reminds one of the corner of a Dutch 
picture. The Echeverias and Cotyledons are closely 
allied (natural order CrassulacetB), and there are many 
varieties of these plants, all requiring much the same 
treatment — ^protection and very little watering in winter, 
but otherwise next to no care. They can be increased 
easily by cuttings at any time, starved and re-potted at 
will, which alters their flowering-time. They will grow 
in china pots, with only a few stones for drainage ; or will 
hang out of Japanese vases, suspended by wires, contain- 
ing hardly any earth. A large earthenware pan of the 
ordinary Echeveria glauca is a very pretty sight in 
summer, and does well in a north window. It can be 
planted with a little peat, charcoal, and a few stones. 

I never knew till this year that Marvels of Peru can be 
kept, like DahUas, free from frost and started the follow- 
ing spring, when they make much handsomer plants than 
if grown each year from seed. In gardens where you are 
pressed for room — and where is it that you are not ? — it is 
an excellent plan to make a hole in the ground, put some 
straw at the bottom, and lay in Geraniums, Dahlias, 
Marvels of Peru, and many other half-hardy things, cover 
them with straw, and earth up just as you would potatoes 
or mangolds in a field. 

October 10th. — It is extraordinary how vague are 
people's ideas about plants, bulbs, etc. ; and it is not tiU 
one is asked questions that one realises how much most 
people have to learn. I was asked the other day by a 
friend, who had had a lot of Narcissus bulbs given her, if 
she might plant them in a Tea-rose bed ! That is the 
last place where they ought to be put, as, if planted in too 
rich a soil, they all go to leaf and flower badly ; and Eoses 
are the better for being heavily mulched in the winter and 
spring. 



48 MORE POT-POURRI 

Mr. Eobert Sydenham, of Tenby Street, Birmingham, 
publishes a catalogue of bulbs, in which are the clearest 
possible instructions of how to cultivate them, both in 
pots and in the open, with an interesting account of his 
own first experiences. If these instructions are carefully 
followed, I do not beheve the disappointing failures, so 
often seen when amateurs try to force bulbs, wiU occur. 
He also makes it quite plain which are the bulbs that 
should be planted in poor places and left alone, and those 
which have to be taken up, dried, and re-planted. Tulips, 
at least in this soil, require much better feeding than any 
of the Narcissus tribe, and are certainly the better for 
taking up and drying after their leaves have thoroughly 
died dovni. I planted my Eoman Hyacinths according 
to Mr. Sydenham's directions early in October, and the 
result was more satisfactory than I have ever had before, 
and they were in fuU flower by Christmas. It is a very 
pretty conceit to plant Hyacinths in shallow earthenware 
or china pans with jaddoo, cocoanut fibre or moss, and 
place small stones and charcoal at the bottom for the 
roots to cling to as they grow up. They must be 
kept very wet. Planted in this way they look much 
more decorative in the room than when grown in pots or 
glasses. Any fancy or ornamental vase can be used for 
the purpose, whether it is fiat or not. Many kind hints 
have been given me by varioiis correspondents about the 
growing of Hepaticas. One lady said that small beds 
with pieces of sandstone were a great help. Another 
writes as follows : ' I thought you might be glad of 
certain facts about Hepaticas that have come under my 
own observation. When a child I lived in Somersetshire, 
where the soil was heavy clay. The most beautiful 
show of Hepaticas I ever saw anywhere was a row in an 
old lady's garden close under a thick hedge of Laures- 
tinus with a due north aspect. They were single-blue 



OCTOBER 49 

and double-pink. In the same village there was for 
many years a large clump of double-pink close under 
a cottage wall with a south-east aspect. That also 
flowered abundantly, so for double-pink at any rate shade 
is not essential, though I remember that the late James 
Backhouse told me many years ago that the Hepaticas 
did best and flowered earliest with a north aspect, as then 
they went to sleep sooner in the autumn. The wild ones 
in Swiss and French woods are always where they would 
be shaded in summer, and grow with the Primroses. I 
was also unsuccessful with Hepaticas for many years as 
long as I grew them on the flat, but when I at last tried 
them on the shady side of the rockery between the stones 
the blue ones have done well, the plants increasing in 
size year by year and flowering abundantly.' I found by 
my letters that a good many people thought when I did 
not mention some plants that I either had not got them, or 
did not care for them, or did not know them. The last 
was sometimes the case, but I have of course a great many 
things in the garden, grown in the usual way and doing 
well, which I did not mention. 

October 15th. — I suppose there are still some few 
people who plant trees for their children or grandchildren, 
although it is rather the fashion to expect gardens and 
woods to be made in a day, and always to be planting 
quick-growing things, Scotch Firs being discarded and the 
ngly-growing Pinus austriaca planted in its stead, etc. One 
of the loveliest things I know in this neighbourhood is a 
road running through a Beech-tree copse, planted thickly 
but varying in depth on each side of the road, The trees 
when they were young were evidently cut down, as many 
of them have two or three stems. At all times of the 
year the drive up this chalk slope is perfectly enchanting 
— whether in the autumn, when the stems are gray and 
green against the leaf-strewn ground, rich and golden in 



so MORE POT-POURRI 

the slanting sunlight ; or in spring, when the tiny leaves 
make flickering light and shade ; or in the cool thickness 
on a summer's day. The fact that nothing grows under 
beech-wood gives a very distinguished and unusual effect, 
accustomed as we are to the dull walls of evergreens. 
For the young who wish to plant a most unusual 
approach, I can suggest nothing better. 

The planting along the roads and hedgerows in 
England of Apples, Cherries and Damsons, would cost 
no more than any other trees, and would be both orna- 
mental and useful. These three fruit-trees, once well 
planted, require no other care. The impression is that 
the fruit would be stolen, but I believe that to be a matter 
of custom, and when once people understand that taking 
fruit is stealing they cease to do it. Growing fruit-trees 
in open fields is universal on the Continent, and I am told 
that they are never touched. 

My love of autumn with its recurring beauty does not 
dull with age or lonehness, and I am often astonished at 
the interest that is still so keen about all that surrounds 
me. Perhaps it ought not to be so, for I find quoted in 
my notebook the following complaint : 

How muoli is lost when neither heart nor eye 
Eose-winged desire or fabling hope deceives ; 
When boyhood with quick throb has ceased to spy 
The dubious apple in the yellow leaves ; 
When, rising from the turf where youth reposed, 
We find but deserts in the far-sought shore ; 
When the huge book of fairy-land Ues closed, 
And those strong brazen clasps will yield no more ! 

October l&th. — The beautiful gossamer time has come 
again. Most mothers now cultivate in their children a 
love of flowers, but it is astonishing how rarely a love 
of insects is taught. I do not mean a mawkish fear of 
killing them, for very often they have to be killed. I 



OCTOBER SI 

remember a boy who was fond on wet summer days of 
killing flies on his nursery window. I remonstrated and 
said it was cruel, upon which he answered: 'Why? 
Father goes out fishing, and brothers go out shooting ; why 
may I not kill flies ? ' The only answer that came to my 
mind was that I could stop the one and I could not the other ; 
this remained for ever with him as an injustice. But I 
do think that probably the more children understand and 
admire, the less they would wish wantonly to kill, and at 
any rate it might do away with so much of that groundless 
dread and uncontrollable nervous fear of insects which 
stick to some people through life. I know some girls 
who have to leave the room if moths — innocent, soft, 
downy moths ! — come in, attracted to their doom by the 
cruel lamp. I know others who dare not pick certain 
flowers for fear of an earwig, which from its silly name they 
believe to be really a dangerous enemy. Others, again, will 
injure their health and remain all through the hot summer 
nights, perhaps in quite a small room, with window and 
door closed, for fear of the inroad of some winged wanderer 
of the darkness. All this seems to me so silly, so ignorant, 
so unnecessary ! And if children were early introduced to 
the wonders of insect life — ants, bees, butterflies, moths, 
etc. — I thiiik they would fear them as little as the ordinary 
house-fly, which is really more objectionable than many 
of them. I never cared much for spiders till I heard a most 
interesting lecture about them, when I longed to know 
more. The process by which they weave their beautiful 
webs has only been understood in comparatively recent 
years. Everyone knows now that the gossamer which 
covers our commons is spun by spiders. In old days all 
sorts of fairy traditions hung about it, as it was quite 
unlike the web of other spiders. The lecturer said that 
spiders place themselves with their face to the gentle 
breeze. This carries the thin thread they have power to 

k2 



52 MORE POT-POURRI 

eject, with its glutinous end, into the air till it reachea 
some branch or stone or corner of leaf, to which it adheres 
instantly. When this happens the spider turns quickly 
round and pulls, like any British tar, with his two front 
claws till the fairy rope is tight. Then he fixes it and 
can travel along it, and that is the first stage in the 
' weaving,' as the old language puts it, of his beautiful web. 
Spiders belong to a kingdom ruled by women, and the 
female eats up the male if she finds him troublesome and 
unsatisfactory. There is a very good book about British 
spiders by B. P. Staveley (L. Eeeve & Co.), which would 
teU all that anyone might want to know about these 
insects. The first page illustrates spiders' heads, with the 
varying numbers of eyes the different kinds possess. 

' Gleanings in Natural History,' by Edward Jesse, is 
a book I can indeed recommend to all lovers of natural 
history. The first edition is dated 'Hampton Court, 
1842.' For all of us who live near Hampton Court the 
book has a double interest, as he was Surveyor of Her 
Majesty's Parks and Palaces, and lived there, and many 
of his anecdotes are connected with the neighbourhood. 
His opening words are : ' One of the chief objects I had 
in writing the following pages was to portray the 
character of animals, and to endeavour to excite more 
kindly feehngs towards them.' It is a kind of half- 
way book between Gilbert White and the scientific 
writings of the present day ; and all natural instincts and 
facts are accounted for in what the most ignorant, since 
the days of Darwin, would describe as the unscientific 
language belonging to that date. To my mind, that in 
no way detracts from the interest of its shrewd observa- 
tions on the facts of Nature. 

To name another book in this place, ' Country 
Pleasures : Chronicle of a Year chiefly in a Garden,' 
by George Milner, has been lately republished and 



OCTOBER S3 

thoroughly deserves it, as it is one of the best of its kind, 
and must be an especial favourite vyith all nature lovers. 
Its charm is of rather a different kind from either of the 
other tv70. The writing is beautiful, and the quotations 
are pointed and chosen with literary taste and knowledge. 
Here are two sentences which I give in order that the 
charm may be felt. One is dated ' May 22nd,' for the 
book is arranged in months, which seems to me the 
only natural system' when speaking of the year's produce 
•and colour-effects in field, wood, or garden : 

'In the present general outburst of vernal foliage 
we naturally forget that the evergreens, as well as 
the deciduous trees, are putting forth their new leaves. 
This is one of those lesser beauties of the spring, easily 
overlooked, but full of interest when once observed. The 
•yew-tree now shows itself as a mass of leafage, so dark as 
to be almost black, but wearing a fringe of yellowish- 
green ; the box has six or seven bright new leaves at the 
end of each spray, in sharp contrast with the sombre but 
3)olished growth of last year ; the ivy buds are silver-gray, 
like the willow ; those of the holly are edged with red, 
and the rhododendron is a light green. In that delight- 
fully child-Uke carol of Kit Marlowe, which gave such 
pleasure to the gentle soul of dear old Izaak Walton, 
the Passionate Shepherd promises to his Love, 

A belt of straw and ivy buds, 
With coral clasps and amber studs.' 

Once every year in the autumn, and sometimes twice, 
I go to the east coast, and the house is so absolutely oh 
rthe seashore that this description in ' Country Pleasures ' 
•exactly suits what I feel when I am there. It is, I think, 
so good that it may be an inducement for my readers to 
•get the book for themselves : ' It is often said that the 
■sea is both monotonous and melancholy, but the longer 



54 MORE POT-POURRI 

we remain in its close neighbourhood the less are we dis- 
posed to allow that it is monotonous. Melancholy it may 
be, as it is fierce or wild or lovely by turns, but it is not 
monotonous. Eather it is, next to the sky, the most 
changeful thing we know : and by this I do not mean 
only the obvious motion and restlessness of the waves, 
but the more subtle and ever-varying alternation of the 
whole aspect of the sea. It is usual to suppose that these 
moods are mainly in the mind of the observer ; but that 
is not so. The sea, like nature generally, has its own 
absolute conditions — conditions which prompt and sug- 
gest, rather than follow, emotions in the mind of man. 
To feel all this, however, one must live conlamionsly 
near the sea.' I do not agree that this is really necessary 
in order to appreciate the sea. I think one does feel all 
Mr. MOner describes, even if one goes only for a short time, 
so long as one lives close to the shore, no going out of the 
house being necessary in order to seethe sea, still less a long 
walk, which means remaining only a few minutes by the 
waves. Mr. Milner continues : ' We are so contiguous 
to the sea here that, looking through the window as I 
VTrite, I can see nothing but the wide stretch of waters, 
just as I should if I were sitting in the cabin of a vessel ; 
and if I stand at the door I can fling a stone into the 
fringe of the tide. Crossing the road, one step brings me 
to the shore ; and here you may sit all the day long, with 
the sea breeze blowing round you and the sound of the 
water ever in your ears. This sound is usually resolvable 
into three elements. There is first the great boom of the 
waves, the chorus of many waters, far and near, heard in 
one deep unison ; then there is a noise as of liquid being 
poured continuously out of one vessel into another — that, 
I think, is caused by the falling crest of the waves ; and 
lastly, there is a low and lisping talk ever going on 
between the water and the pebbles.' I call that an ex^ 



OCTOBER 55 

cellent word-rendering of sea-sounds. Then : ' In the pools 
and tiny basins there are a thousand fairy creatures, 
whose motions you may watch even as you lie reposing — 
green and thread-like tentacula issuing and retreating, 
purple atoms spinning round and round in some strange 
dance which is the beginning and end of their existence, 
gorgeous anemones and many a tiny shell, delicately 
built and cunningly coloured : 

Slight, to be crush'd with a tap 
Of my finger-nail on the sand, 

Small, but a work divine. 
Frail, but of force to withstand, 
Year upon year, the shook 
Of cataract seas that snap 

The three-decker's oaken spine 
Athwart the ledges of rock.' 

In mentioning these books I mean no slight on any 
that I am not fortunate enough to know. I have kept to 
the same rule which I found necessary with the old 
garden-books — of only naming those that I not only 
know, but possess. 

October 20th. — I have been very busy here hollowing 
out new rockeries and digging deep holes, eight to twelve 
feet deep, and throwing up the sandy earth on either side, 
so making slopes and mounds of earth. Small narrow 
paths lead into these hoUows, and instead of catching the 
water at the bottom, as I did before, I keep the bottom 
dry, and sink petroleum barrels level with the ground to 
catch the water as it runs down the paths when rain 
faUs, or after watering with a hose. In the tall walls of 
sandy earth every sort of aspect is to be found, little 
hoUows are made, and all kinds of treasures can be 
planted on the flat or the slope. By making holes in the 
sandy walls, and helping to fix the plants with a mixture 
of cow-dung and clay, they adhere quite well on the steep 



56 MORE POT-POURRI 

slope. On one side of these sunk rockeries, so as still 
more to keep off the north-east wind, there is a wall 
about four feet in width and four feet high, built up 
gradually with pieces of stone and earth between them— 
no mortar. This makes an excellent cool depth of soil 
for many precious plants. A small boggy bed can be 
made, by guiding the rain as it runs away into a hole, 
anywhere by the sides of paths and where the earth 
slopes. This immensely increases the effect of rainfall 
for individual plants, and it is a great help to gardening 
on sandy soils. The fault of my rockery, unavoidable 
from the situation, is that it has very little eastern 
aspect, being shaded in that direction by trees ; and 
morning sun is what early Alpines require. As the holes 
approach the large trees, the banks are planted with 
Ferns, various Ivies, Periwinkles {Vinca), and shade- 
loving plants. Pernettyas, which are lovely little shrubs, 
will not do in sun at all ; but in shade they seem to do 
excellently, and are quite healthy in sandy soil. All 
those I planted in full sun have simply died this dry 
year, having been very much parched up. Cotoneaster 
microphylla, on the contrary, never berries so well or is 
so satisfactory as in a very dry place luUy exposed to the 
southern sun. 

The other day as I was working in this new Alpine 
garden a caterpillar fell off a tree just in front of me. 
His head was round ; he had a hairy body, pliunp and 
thickest in the middle, covered with moderately abundant 
hairs ; and four square-topped bunches of hair of a pale 
yeUow colour grew on his back. His head and body were 
green ; his long, pointed tail bright pink. The spaces 
between the tufts of hair were deep black. His legs and pro- 
legs were green. I thought I had got hold of some wonder- 
ful rare beast, as I had never before found a caterpillar with 
a pink tail like a horn. A friend to whom I refer all my 



OCTOBER 57 

natural history questions informed me that this was the 
caterpillar of a moth called the ' Pale Tussock ' because of 
the tussocks upon his body. The moth is pale gray coloured, 
with various markings, and is fairly common. He feeds 
upon most trees, often on Oak, but also on Hazel, Birch, and 
^oddly enough — Hops. He will eat Plum and Pear. 

October 2Brd. — I have found that Crocus speciosus 
does admirably in this very light soil, and comes up year 
after year, but is very much better not disturbed, when 
it decidedly increases. Young plants of variegated Maple 
look very pretty planted in clumps in front of a shrubbery, 
especially if backed by small plants of Prunus pissardi. 
The planting of Eosemary under shrubs, no matter what 
aspect, has answered perfectly, and in this way I have a lot 
of the delicious stuff, not only to bum in my own house, 
tut to give away. 

October 25th. — We have improved on the cultivation 
of Watercress in a dry garden by sowing it in a wide 
trench with the sides supported by two old boards, and 
close to a tap so that it can be easily watered. In 
October some of the plants are dug up, put into a box 
and then placed in a cold frame, so I get fresh Water- 
cress for tea through the cold weather. In London it is 
easy to get everything more or less good, but this is not 
at all the case in the country. What you do not grow 
you generally have to do without, and even if Watercress 
can be bought there is the additional advantage of safety 
in growing it on clean ground instead of buying it out of 
a dirty ditch, when it often tastes of mud. 

I find that in Germany the roots of the pink Oxalis 
floribunda are eaten as a vegetable, and a most excellent 
vegetable it is. It is not quite hardy. The way to treat 
it is to take it up about this time of year, eat the big roots, 
preserve the smaU ones in sand, and re-plant them in the 
spring. Celeriac and Salsifies are also much better taken 



S8 MORE POT-POURRI 

up now and stored in dry sand under cover, like Carrots. 
They grow old and spotty, if left in the ground in the 
usual English way. 

Before cutting down our Asparagus we collect the 
pretty red seeds, sow them at once very thickly in ordi- 
nary or fancy china pots, and keep some for later sowing. 
The seedlings come in well as an ornament in the green- 
house at Christmas, look green and fresh and refined, and 
most people do not know what they are. They have the 
great merit of costing nothing and of being very easy to 
gtow for anyone who has a warm greenhouse. 

October 28th. — We are benefiting now by the extra- 
ordinarily dry autumn and no early frost. The number 
of flowers in the garden is quite surprising. I picked 
this morning a large bunch of Nemesia. The Lavenders 
are flowering a second time, and there are plenty of Tea- 
roses. 

The following instructions for growing the TropcBolum, 
speciosti/m, which has failed here so often, were sent me 
by a lady : ' The two great needs seem to be moistm-e 
— but not great moisture — at the roots and dampness of 
atmosphere round the foliage when in summer growth. 
These objects are best obtained by — first, in England, or 
at least in the southern counties, a north wall ; second, by 
being planted about two feet deep in a trench properly 
prepared for it; third, by frequently syringing in the 
summer. I have found a trench a foot wide and a foot 
and a half deep suit it best. But if the subsoil is clay or 
a tenacious soil the trench should be made two feet deep, 
the bottom six inches being filled with drainage — ^pieces 
of broken stones or brick. The soil with which it is next 
filled should be peat and ordinary loam in equal propor- 
tions, with a little sand and leaf-mould thrown in and 
thoroughly mixed with the whole. Sphagnum cut and 
chopped into small bits — this retains the moisture, which 



OCTOBER 59 

is as essential as that it should not be stagnant. The 
young plants should be put in in the autumn preferably 
to the spring. It is important that the soil in which the 
roots are growing should vary as little as possible in 
moistness, never getting dryer at one time than at 
another.' 

The two Japanese grasses, Eulalia Japonica {vwriegata 
and zebrina), do not throw up their flower panicles here 
qviite early enough to come to perfection, but I learnt 
last summer that if the cane containing the flower (this 
is easily distinguished by feeling a certain fulness near 
the top) is picked and brought into the house the grass 
will dry; it should then be peeled off and the feathery 
panicles will display themselves (see illustration in 
' English Mower Garden '). They make a pretty and 
refined winter decoration, and they are just the right size 
to mix with the red-berried pods of Iris fatidissima. 
The seed-branches of Montbretias are also a pretty addi- 
tion to a dry winter bouquet. 

Plumbago rosea is a very pretty autumn-flowering 
greenhouse plant. It wants to be grown in a fairly 
warm house ; but, once in flower, a cool greenhouse seems 
to suit it well. Its growth is very different from the 
other Plumbagos, and the pink of its flower is of an 
unusually beautiful hue. It is not difficult to strike. 

Eeceipts 

I have two amusing little books by the same author — 
kind of ' Pot-Pourris' of the early 'sixties — one called 
' Dinners and Dinner Parties ' and the other ' The Gentle- 
woman.' They are full of good advice and receipts, some 
of which I think are worth copying, but the chief amuse- 
ment is to see how the advice they give has grown and 
spread, and is so much less really wanted than it was 



6o MORE POT-POURRI 

thirty-five years ago. The anonymous writer is ex- 
tremely sarcastic about the neglect of household duties 
by women of all classes. Now, perhaps, the absorption 
in domestic arrangements and refined luxuries is almost 
carried to the extreme. Most newspapers have menus, 
and the cookery books are innumerable. One paragraph 
in ' The Gentlewoman ' is headed ' The Great Evil in 
England,' and runs as follows : ' The great social evil is 
not that which is talked of by gentlemen in black at 
midnight meetings ; but it is the great evil that besets 
the English from the highest to the lowest. Every man, 
woman, and child suffers from it, and thousands die or 
only experience a lingering existence from its neglect. 
The great social evil is the want of persons of education 
and practical knowledge worthy to be entrusted in the 
preparation of food with that care and nicety that is 
practised in every nation in Europe except England, 
whereby health would be no longer jeopardised, and 
twenty millions of money would annually be saved. 
There would be ample employment for every poor lady 
who, for the want of domestic knowledge, is doomed to 
life-long misery.' The writer further complains that ladies 
do not go to market, that young gentlewomen do not look 
after their own wardrobes, and is full of compassion for 
the poor father who has the task of providing a sufficient 
dowry for each girl. His language must always have 
been exaggerated, and it is certainly untrue in our day. 
The ' Stores ' have replaced the old markets, and vrithout 
doubt ladies, and even gentlemen, do go to them — tire- 
some places though they are — and the girls of the present 
day are very few who do not look after and think about 
their clothes. Fathers still find the same difficulty in 
providing dowries for their daughters ; but the girls them- 
selves — among them those who have every right, from the 
way they have been brought up, to look for dowries — are 



OCTOBER 6 I 

now always striving to do some work of their own. The 
over-strained gentility that my author speaks of does 
still and must always exist. He touches on too many 
subjects for me to go on quoting him. But the employ- 
ments he recommends for women, laying especial stress on 
nursing, do make one realise the changes and the improve- 
ments of the last thirty years. All his advice about stores 
and cooking utensils and general management of the 
kitchen is excellent. It is carried out far more in the beau- 
tiful kitchens of modern Germany than anywhere here. He 
is as strong as even I could wish about the use of earthen- 
ware casseroles and fireproof dishes. But both servants 
and mistresses hate them because of the breakage, which 
of course is very troublesome ; and the excessive heat of 
our fireplaces makes them more difficult to manage. 
English servants, too, are so conservative that it is 
extremely difficult to interfere in any way with their 
method of work. They only like to do things as they 
have always been done. 

On looking over these two books I find the receipts so 
good and so unUke those in the ordinary cookery book 
that I shall copy several of them to disperse through the 
months as they seem to me seasonable. It is often 
difficult to remember how each generation requires to be 
told the same things over again. Among other good and 
useful hints, one is to keep a supply of corks for putting 
into any bottle that has been opened, so that it can be 
turned over on its head in the store closet and thus 
prevent the air from getting to the contents. This 
ensures your not having to buy a fresh bottle of oil for 
every third salad, or a fresh bottle of anchovy when you 
require only a teaspoonful. I am afraid the modern 
cooks are rare who will take the trouble to attend to 
such details. 

This dressing of two chickens in different ways for 



62 MORE POT-POURRI 

one dinner party is rather original, so I copy it out of 
• The Gentlewoman ' just as it is : 

'Two Chickens for Eight Persons.— Abandon the 
boiled fowl fashion ; order a pair of fowls to be sent without 
being trussed, and let the heads and necks be sent with 
them. Cut up one of the fowls into pieces — the leg and 
thigh into two pieces, the back into three pieces, and the 
breast into two pieces, which with the merry -thought will 
be fourteen pieces. 

' Take a Spanish onion, cut it up small, put it into a 
stewpan with two ounces of butter and a little pepper 
and salt ; let it stew gently for about an hour until it is 
in a complete pulp. Half an hour before you want it 
put in the fourteen pieces of chicken, let them stew halt 
an hour, and when done put into your silver dish a tea- 
spoonful of Spanish or IVench garlic vinegar, or, if that 
is not liked, the squeeze of half a lemon, and you will 
never again want to taste insipid boiled fowl. Mind, it 
requires no water ; the fowl will be done in its own gravy. 

' Cut the other fowl in the same way, viz. fourteen 
pieces. Let the heads and necks be picked and scalded, 
stew them in half a pint of water, and when all the 
goodness is extracted strain off the liquor, put it into a 
stewpan with a pint of button mushrooms, a little pepper 
and salt, and put in the fourteen pieces of fowl, stew them 
until done (about halt an hour), thicken with a little 
arrowroot. "When you dish them up, put into your silver 
dish a tablespoonful of mushroom catchup. These two 
fowls vrill be a variety, will require only the effort of 
serving, will be enough for eight or ten persons, and 
each convive will want to taste each dish. 

' Pigeons when in season cooked in the same manner 
are equally good, and make a change — such a change 
that those who taste it never forget. Grouse and 
partridges treated the same way are better than roasted. 



OCTOBER 63 

' A young turkey poult dressed in the same way is a 
very inviting dish.' 

Towards the middle of October I buy two or three 
young turkeys in Suffolk, and feed them here till a fort- 
night before Christmas. They must be starved twenty- 
four hours before killing, and require to hang about a 
fortnight. They should not be plucked or cleaned out 
till they are going to be cooked. 

Chervil Soup. — Pick, wash, and chop fine a very 
large handful of chervil. Melt a piece of butter the size 
of an egg with two tablespoonfuls of good flour. Stir 
smooth. Do not let it colour at all ; then add the chervil 
and let it simmer ten minutes, stirring well. Pour on it 
sufBcient stock or water (water is quite as good as stock, in 
my opinion) to make the soup (rather less than more, as 
one can easily add a drop if too thick). Let it boil half an 
hour. Just before serving the soup put the yolks of 
two fresh eggs, one teacupful of milk or cream and a bit 
of sweet butter, well mixed together and beaten up, into 
the soup tureen ; pour the boiling soup into this 
thickening, stirring it well till mixed. The same receipt 
exactly applies to sorrel Soup. 

To dress Fresh-water Fish.— Bone the fish and 
lay it flat in a fireproof dish, with small pieces of butter 
underneath the fish. Chop half an onion and three or 
four washed anchovies, brown them in a little butter in 
a small copper saucepan, pour this mixture all along 
over the fish. Strew lightly with very dry breadcrumbs 
grated from a brown roll or the crust of a loaf. Add in 
the dish a few spoonfuls of good brown sauce, and baste 
the fish in the oven till cooked. Serve in the fireproof 
dish in which it was cooked. 

In Germany they still use fresh-water fish almost as 
much as they do in France, and obviously for the same 
reasons. A full account of these reasons is most excel- 



64 MORE POT-POURRI 

lently given in Mrs. Eoundell's ' Practical Cookery Book' 
under the head of ' Pond Pish.' Sea fish in England is so 
plentiful that I do not believe, in these days of quick 
carriage, that fresh-water fish -will ever be again a matter 
of trade, though even this we cannot say for certain. The 
fishmongers and fishermen are so absolutely determined 
to ruin our fish supply by covering it with that injurious 
chemical, boracic acid, very often before it leaves the 
coast, that I for one would greatly prefer a freshly netted 
pond fish. Boracic acid can be easUy recognised, when 
the fish is cooked, by the purple line that lies along the 
spine in soles, whiting, haddock, plaice, etc. It is intro- 
duced under the gill, and I fancy with experience one 
would soon recognise it even before the fish is cooked. 
But the use of it is now so universal, alas ! that a young 
cook can hardly be expected to know what fish looked 
like without it. I cannot understand why people who 
possess large places with rivers, lakes, ponds, game- 
keepers, and in fact every facUity for having fresh-water 
fish, are yet content to do without so good a variety of 
food. 

One reason is that the cooks do not know how to 
cook it properly, and the mistresses of the house do not 
take the trouble to teach them. The Izaak Walton 
receipts are very inadequate, and depend almost entirely 
for success on cooking the fish the very moment it is 
taken out of the water. In Ibrance fish that cannot be 
cooked immediately is always marinaded. (See ' Dainty 
Dishes.') Mrs. EoundeU entirely does away with the 
terrible superstition that has always haunted my imagina- 
tion as a fact, that eels have to be skinned alive as lobsters 
are boiled alive. She is silent on the subject of lobsters, 
but with regard to eels she distinctly says : ' Kill them 
first and skin them afterwards.' 

Endive. (French receipt.) — Boil the leaves in lots of 



OCTOBER 65 

salt and water, just as if you were doing spinach or 
cabbage. When tender pour the whole thing on to a 
large sieve, and as soon as the hot water has drained 
away put the sieve under a tap and let cold water run 
on it for some minutes. This applies to the boiling of 
all green vegetables — cabbages, sorrel, cauliflowers, cos- 
lettuce, cabbage-lettuce, etc. After the cold water, put 
the endive on a chopping-board, or if required to be quite 
smooth as a purde, rub it through a fine hair sieve. In 
both these cases return it to the fire, after having first 
put, in a china saucepan, a pat of butter to dissolve with 
one spoonful of fine flour. Do not put the vegetable 
in before the butter and flour are well amalgamated. 
When this is achieved, stir the vegetable well up with the, 
butter and flour and let it simmer for another fifteen 
minutes. Add a little cream or milk quite at the last 
moment, just to make it- soft and pretty. It must not be 
thicker than a thin pur&e. 

Endive (in the German way). — Cut up the endive 
quite coarsely, wash it in lots of cold water, and throw it 
very wet into an earthenware pot in which a large piece 
of butter has been dissolved ; no salt nor anything else. 
Put the lid on and simmer gently for three or four hours. 
Add salt the last minute, and no flour at all. 

Canard a la Rouennaise.— Take the fillets of two 
ducks. Put them into a buttered saut6-pan and poach 
for five minutes in a good oven. When done cut them 
out with a cutlet-cutter and spread on one side of each fillet 
some liver force-meat, then chaud-froid over with some 
tomato sauce. When set, dish them flat on the entr6e-dish 
with some aspic, some skinned grapes in the centre, and 
a grape here and there. Serve with grape salad. 

Puree of Carrots. — Get some nice red carrots, slice 
them thin. Add an onion also sliced, a little celery, and 
a turnip. Braise all together in some weak stock, or 



66 MORE POT-POURRI 

water, until quite tender. Pass the whole through a 
tammy or hair sieve. About an hour before serving place 
it in a stewpan over the fire and let it gently simmer to 
clarify. Season with sugar and salt, and work in a little 
cream just before serving. 

Poulet a la Mareng-O.— Have some nice young 
chickens, cut them up neatly, and put them into a saute- 
pan with a little salad oil, one onion, a small piece of 
parsley and thyme ; season with pepper and salt, cover 
the saut6-pan with the lid, and boil till sufBciently 
browned. Then add some good brown stock and stew 
for some time, finish with a good glass of madeira 
(optional). Dish up with fried eggs round. Pry the eggs 
in salad oil. 

Chestnuts au Jus. — Eemove the outer skin and 
throw the chestnuts into boiling water, to enable you to 
remove the inner skin as well ; then lay them in cold 
water while the following mixture is prepared : Stir two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar into an ounce of butter in a sauce- 
pan till the sugar is browned, let it boil up, add a little coM 
water. Put in the chestnuts, simmer till tender, but do not 
shake them (to avoid crumbling). Just before serving add 
a few spoonfuls of very good strong glaze. Onions, 
small turnips, and oxalises can be done in the same way. 
We find all these equally good without the meat glaze. 

CeleriaC Salad. — A most excellent autumn salad is 
celeriac well boiled, cut in slices like beetroot, mixed with 
a light mayonnaise sauce half oil and half cream, sur- 
rounded by a wreath of what they call in Germany 
' garden-cress,' which is merely the cress we grow in 
spring in a box, allowed to grow out of doors in summer 
till about the size of parsley. It grows all the summer 
through in the garden, and can be cut over and over again. 
When grown in boxes in the winter it should be allowed 
to grow on, instead of cutting it quite young. 



OCTOBER 67 

I have always considered salads a strong point with 
me, and was much amused the other day, when reading 
Sydney Smith's ' Memoirs ' by his daughter, at the follow- 
ing description of his experiences with salads. I think his 
■receipt so clever that I have extracted it, with the feeling it 
was better to have it in two books than in only one, so that 
it may give pleasure to more people. He says : ' Our forte, 
in the culinary line is our salad. I pique myself on our 
salads. Saba always dresses them after my recipe. I 
have put it into verse. Taste it, and if you like it I will 
give it to you. I was not aware how much it had con- 
tributed to my reputation till I met Lady at Bowood, 

who begged to be introduced to me, saying she had so 
long wished to know me. I was of course highly 
flattered till she added : " For, Mr. Smith, I have heard 
so much of your recipe for salads that I was most anxious 
to obtain it from you." Such and so various are the 
sources of fame ! 

To ipake this condiment your poet begs 

The pounded yellow of two hard-boil'd eggs ; 

Two boil'd potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve, 

Smoothness and softness to the salad give. 

Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl 

And, half-suspected, animate the whole. 

Of mordant mustard add a single spoon, 

Distrust the condiment that bites so soon ; 

But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault 

To add a double quantity of salt. 

Four times the spoon with oil from Lucca brown, 

And twice with vinegar procured from town ; 

And lastly o'er the flavour'd compound toss 

A magic soupgon ol anchovy sauce. 

Oh, green and glorious! Oh, herbaceous treat ! 

'Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat ; 

Back to the world he'd turn his fleeting soul, 

And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl I 

Serenely full, the epicure would ssy, 

Fate cannot harm me — I have dined to-day.' 

f2 



68 MORE POT-POURRI 

Fried (German) Pudding-.— To make the batter 
put two pints of milk to boil with a tiny pinch of salt and 
two ounces of butter. When boiling, stir in very smoothly 
eight ounces of finest Hungarian flour. (Use no other 
flour than Hungarian or Austrian for all sweets and 
sauces.) Stir till the batter recedes from the sides of the 
stewpan, then pour it into a dish to get cold. Add six 
eggs and two spoonfuls of rum, mix gently. Put a deep 
iron pan full of frying-fat on the fire, but let it get only 
moderately hot. Fry the batter in round balls in the 
following way. To make this very German pudding 
properly, one should have a large tin syringe made speci- 
ally for the purpose, but in its absence the batter must 
be taken up by small teaspoonfuls and dropped into the 
frying-fat. It will form round balls, which should be 
constantly moved about with a spoon to get them golden- 
colom'ed all over. When they show little cracks they are 
sufficiently done. For this method the batter should 
be made a little stiffer than for the sjrringe by adding 
a little more flour. Serve with dissolved fruit syrup or 
custard. 

Gateau Savarin. — Ingredients : a little less than one 
pint of milk, six ounces of butter, ten eggs, two ounces 
of pounded sugar, one pound of good Hungarian flour, 
sifted grated peel of two lemons, two ounces of good 
German yeast, a pinch of salt. Put one-fifth part of the 
flour, the yeast, and the milk together in a deep basin, and 
work them to a stiff paste ; cover with a cloth, and stand 
in a tepid place till it swells to double its size. Put 
all the other ingredients into a much larger basin, mix 
them very vigorously and thoroughly with the hands for 
ten minutes, then work into this the first paste with 
the yeast in it. When all is well incorporated, work 
it for another fifteen minutes. Fill the tin or earthen- 
ware Savarin shapes vrith paste to one-third of their height, 



OCTOBER 69 

having first greased them well inside with melted butter. 
Stand them in a warm place till the paste has risen to the 
very top. Put them in a rather slow oven for twenty- 
five to thirty minutes. When well coloured, but not brown, 
turn them out and pour rum punch over them, taking 
care not to sodden them. 

I had occasion at the end of this month last year 
(1897) to go to Germany to the neighbourhood of Prank- 
fort. The journey, about twenty-five hours from London, 
is wonderfully easy. My friends said: 'What! go all 
that way for ten days ? ' But in fact it means far less 
time and money than did a journey to Devonshire, or 
even the Isle of Wight, to our grandmothers. I had 
never seen the Ehine before in late autumn. The late 
vintage was just over, and the vines and the earth seemed 
one even brown, diversified at times with yellow leaves 
hanging thinly on the poplars, and the low oak brush- 
wood bronze and gold against the sky. It seems bathos 
to say so, but the Ehine runs so due north and south that 
it reminded me of my winter walks in Sloane Street. The 
sun was always in one's eyes in the middle of the day, and 
behind the hiUs morning and evening ; and the fogs hung 
about the river as they do between the houses in the 
street. How entirely, the Ehine of Turner and Byron 
has ceased to be ! All the beautiful, picturesque boats, 
barges, rafts, etc., with white or tan sails, that trailed 
their long reflections in the broad river, representing the 
commercial industries of the people, which had been 
growing from the commencement of history — all this has 
completely disappeared. On the Main I saw one or two 
of the old-fashioned large rafts, not towed by steamers, 
but punted by the graceful little black figures ceaselessly 
labouring up and down a small portion of the raft and 
pushing.it with long poles. On the Ehine everything 



70 MORE POT-POURRI 

was towed by steamers of various sizes and kinds. As I 
sped along in the luxurious railway carriage, and noticed 
the road beside the river turning and twisting along the 
bank, I could not but think of the changes since the days 
when all travelling was done by carriages and lumbering 
diligences. In Moore's ' Life of Byron,' which I used to 
think such a delightful book, but which now is somewhat 
sneered at as unfair book-making by Byron biographers, 
there is a detailed account of the way the rich and great 
journeyed at the beginning of the century : ' Lord Byron 
travelled in a huge coach copied from the celebrated one 
of Napoleon, taken at Genappe, with additions. Besides 
a lit de repos it contained a library, a plate chest, and 
every apparatus for dining in it. It was not, however, 
found sufficiently capacious for his baggage and suite, and 
he purchased a caliche at Brussels for his servants.' So 
travelled the man whom Lady Caroline Lamb attempts 
to describe, in her famous though duU novel of ' Glenavon,' 
with the motto : 

He left a name to all succeeding times 
Link'd with one viitue and a thousand ciimes. 

The train sped along and the weather was beautiful. 
We were not parboiled in the carriages, as they do not 
warm them before the 1st of November. My friend 
lived out of Frankfort, on the slopes of the Taunus 
Mountains, under the towers of the mediseval Castle 
of Cronberg. Land is not, I fancy, to be bought in 
Germany except close to the towns ; all the forests 
belong to the State, and are not sold. I was surprised to 
find in this delightful home of my Cronberg friends, in 
the very kingdom of stoves as we consider Germany, 
that one of the rooms was warmed by an Irish stove, 
made by Messrs. Musgrave of Bond Street^ exactly like 
the one I find so invaluable for keeping my own little 



OCTOBER 71 

house at an oven temperature. I cannot imagine why any 
English house not warmed with hot pipes is ever without 
one of these stoves. They burn only coke, they require 
very little stoking, they keep in a very long tinae, and 
they never unpleasantly dry the air or cause the least 
smell. I afterwards found that the shops in Frankfort 
were full of English goods. This is some consolation for 
us when things we buy are so constantly marked ' made in 
Germany.' 

My bedroom at Cronberg looked north and faced a 
long line of sunlit Taunus Mountains, clothed with oak 
woods in all their autumn glory. They were intersected 
with pine woods, which in previous months must have 
looked dull and dark against the summer green, but in 
late October they were shining bright against the red 
gold of the dying woods. They reminded me of one of 
' Bethia Hardacre's ' truest touches of colour : 

Silver, and pearl-white sky, 

Hills of dim amethyst, 
Bracken to gold changed by 

Autumn, the Alchemist. 

Spikes of bright yellow poplars here and there marked 
the road as it wound up the hill to lose itself in the silent 
forest. The walls of my bedroom were hung round 
with photographs , and prints, remembrances brought 
back by my cosmopolitan hostess froin various countries* 
They were most of them known to me, but one print was 
quite a stranger and very striking. It was of a picture, J 
was told, by a Swiss artist called Arnold Boecklin, a 
celebrated man, though unknown to me. On the white 
margin of the print were written the simple words : 
Todtm-Insel. The print represents an imaginary burial- 
place: A high rocky island with a suggestion of big 
caves in, the rook and windows made by man. In the 
middle a little open space with tall upright groups of 



72 MORE POT-POURRI 

splendid Italian Cypresses, which seem to be mourn- 
fully swaying in the wind. Down the rocks on each side 
tumble somewhat conventional waterfalls into a fathom- 
less ocean, perhaps meant to be typical of Life and 
Death. Two white stone posts on each side of a step 
mark the entrance to this sombre garden of peace and 
rest. On the foreground of calm water floats a black 
boat, which approaches this entrance rowed by a solitary 
dark figure— a realistic Charon. Across the front of 
the boat lies the dead ; and a radiant, draped, mys- 
terious mourner, with head bowed over the inevitable 
sorrow of mankind, stands erect in the middle of the 
boat. The combination of the horizontal dead fiigure and 
the upright mourner, in their white draperies, seems to 
form a shining cross against the deep shade of the 
Cypresses. This print fascinated me with its eternal 
facts transcribed into an allegory by a man of genius. 
The picture from which it is taken is a repHca, with many 
alterations, of one painted some years ago which I have 
seen. But, judging from the print, I beheve that the last- 
painted one is the finest. Certainly the allegorical details 
in this later one are brought out with greater distinctness. 
Several of Herr Boecklin's pictures have been bought by his 
native town of Bale, and later on I wiU describe howl spent 
a night there on purpose to see them. After my return 
home I came across an interesting description of Herr 
Boecklin and his work in a lately published book called 
' The History of Modern Painting,' by Eichard Muther, 
from which the following extract will perhaps make others 
wish as much as I do to see his pictures. Mr. Muther 
says of him that : ' He belonged to the very time when 
Eichard Wagner lured the colours of sound from music 
with a glow and light such as no master had kindled 
before Boecklin's symphonies of colour streamed forth 
like a crashing orchestra. The whole scale, from the 



OCTOBER 73 

most sombre depth to the most chromatic light, was at 
his command. In his pictures of spring the colour 
laughs, rejoices, and exults. In the " Isle of the Dead " it 
seems as though a veil of crSpe were spread over the sea, 
the sky, and the trees. . . . Many of his pictures have 
such an ensnaring brilliancy that the eye is never weary 
of feasting upon their floating splendour. Indeed, later 
generations wiU probably do him honour as the greatest 
colour-poet of the century, and at the same time they 
will learn from his works that at the close of this same 
unstable century there were complete and healthy human 
beings. . . . The more modern sentiment became 
emancipated, the more did artists venture to feel with 
their own nerves and not with those of earlier genera- 
tions, and the more it became evident that modern senti- 
ment is almost always disordered, recklessly despairing, 
unbelieving, and weary of hfe. Boecklin, the most 
modem of modern painters, possesses that quaUty of iron 
health of which modernity knows so little.' 

To return to my time in Germany. The weather grew 
cold and foggy, and my expeditions from Cronberg into 
Frankfort were fewer than I could have wished, and many 
sights I did not see at all. 

Among the towns of which I have an early though 
faint recollection, not even Paris itself is more utterly 
and entirely changed than Prankfort. Only here and 
there does anything remain that recalls Goethe's descrip- 
tion, so familiar to the readers of his ever-enchanting 
autobiography, that perfect mixture, ' Truth and Poetry.' 
The Jewish cemetery, full of interest with its unbroken 
record from the twelfth century, I did not see, though to 
my mind it must be one of the most interesting spots in 
Europe. This feeling would only be understood by the 
English, the awful hatred of the Jews — universal on the 
Continent — being happily unknown to us. The world 



74 MORE POT-POURRI 

changes so much, and yet so much remains the same. 
Who would have imagined that at the end of the 
nineteenth century Jewish persecution would be the same 
as in the Middle Ages ? If it were possible, would not 
the gates of the Ghetto be shut in the same cruel and 
unjust way as years ago ? Hatred of the Jews seems to 
me the one real bond that unites France, Germany, and 
Sussia. It is generally attributed to Disraeli, but I 
believe it was Heine who first said : 'Every nation has 
the kind of Jew it deserves.' 

I am told that in this Jewish cemetery at Frankfort 
the surnames on the tombstones date back in many cases 
three hundred years. The old graves have generally only 
a first name (one cannot say Christian name) with a 
locality mentioned ; as, for instance, ' Hannah of Ham- 
burg.' The Jews seem to regard this cemetery as an even 
truer record of their families than we consider our peerage. 
The Judetigasse has virtually disappeared. I never saw 
it but once in my childhood, when I felt the same kind of 
mixed awe and curiosity vrith which Goethe speaks of it. 
There is a sketch of it in that never-to-be-forgotten 
volume of our young days, ' The Foreign Tour of Messrs. 
Brown, Jones, and Eobinson,' by Dickie Doyle. His 
dramng gives a somewhat spiteful version of it, but it 
is a funny remembrance of this swept-away quarter. 
Lewes says Goethe learnt much from the society of the 
Jews in the strange, old, filthy, but deeply interesting 
Judengasse. Like him, we have all pondered over ' the 
sun standing still on Gibeon and the moon in the valley 
of Ajalon.' 

It was with a genuine thrill that I entered Goethe's 
house, where he was born, where he lived, where he 
played and eat and slept and loved Gretchen, and which 
— angry and disappointed at being described as the boy 
he really was — he left, with the indifference usual at that 



OCTOBER 75 

age, to seek his fortunes in the world. As he says himself ;, 
' At certain epochs children part from parents, seyv^iinta 
from masters, ^^'oi^fif^s from their patrons ; and whethes 
it succeed or not, such an attempt to stand on one's oyrn 
feet, to make one's self independent, to live for one's self, 
is always in accordance with the will of Nature.' 

I am so fond of Goethe's sayings that they stick 
somehow in my mind, in spite of my bad memory. He 
says somewhere so truly, and it refers to this entrance 
into life that all have to face : ' Every man has his decoy, 
and every man is led or misled in a way peculiar to 
himself.' How frequently Goethe's sayings remind one 
of Lord John Eussell's apt definition of a , proverb, 
' One man's wit and all men's wisdom ' ! Goethe's house 
in the Hirscligraben is now a museum, bought by the 
Goethe Society, whose headquarters are at "Weimar, and 
restored by them with reverent care. Every effort is 
made to preserve it and what it contains from decay. 
Such guardians are necessary ; they hold the hand of the 
destroyer and arrest decay, keeping for posterity what we 
ourselves highly value. The old house where Luther rested 
for the night on his way to the Diet of Worms was being 
levelled to the ground this summer before my eyes, to 
make room for a handsome entrance , into the courtyard 
of a large white stucco house. So incongruous was 
this building to the old sixteenth-century street that 
had I seen it suddenly I should have said it was a 
residence, not in Frankfort, but in the Qtmrtifir St. 
Germain in Paris. I honour all societies that save us 
from this wholesale destruction of , the pa^t,: In the 
Goethe house-museum there were , some of . .Goethe's 
drawings which made me sympathise more than. I had; 
ever done before with Lewes's somewhat bitter reproaches 
about the time Goethe wasted on drawing. Lewes says ; 
'All his study and all hia practice were vainj he. never 



76 MORE POT-POURRI 

attained even the excellence of an amateur. To think 
of a Goethe thus obstinately cultivating a branch of art 
for which he had no talent makes us look with kinder 
appreciation on the spectacle, so frequently presented, of 
really able men obstinately devoting themselves to pro- 
duce poetry no cultivated man can read ; men whose 
culture and insight are insufficient to make them perceive 
in themselves the difference between aspiration and in- 
spiration.' 

I also went alone to the suburb of Sachsenhausen to 
see the Staedel Art Institute. Frederick Staedel, in 1816, 
bequeathed his pictures and engravings and 100,000Z. to 
his native town. This formed the nucleus of the present 
gallery. Many pictures have been added since his death, 
and in many ways the collection is an interesting one. 
I stood long before a picture which the inscription on 
the frame told me had been presented by a Baroness 
Eothschild. Having no catalogue, and feeling shy about 
asking in German, I neither knew nor guessed what it 
was or why it was there. It powerfully arrested my atten- 
tion — a life-sized picture of a man of about forty, sitting 
in a gray, flowing overcoat, on gray stones in the gray 
Campagna of Eome. Afterwards I was told that it was 
the famous picture of Goethe by Johann Eriedrich 
Tischbein. This painter lived from 1750 to 1812 — that is 
to say, only a part of the life of Goethe, who was born a 
year before Tischbein and died in 1832. He therefore 
was thirty-seven when he wrote in the letters from Italy, 
December 1786, as follows : ' Latterly I have often ob- 
served Tischbein attentively regarding me ; and now it 
appears he has long cherished the idea of painting my 
portrait. His design is already settled and the canvas 
stretched. I am to be drawn the size of life, enveloped 
in a white mantle, and sitting on a fallen obelisk, viewing 
the ruins of the Campagna di Boma, which are to fill up 



! OCTOBER 77 

the background of the picture. It will form a beautiful 
piece, only it will be rather too large for our Northern 
habitations. I indeed may crawl into them, but the 
portrait will never be able to enter their door.' 

This is the exact description of the picture as it now 
is. Later on, in the letters in February of the following 
year, Goethe again alludes to the picture : ' The great 
portrait of myself which Tischbein had taken in hand 
begins already to stand out from the canvas. The painter 
has employed a clever statuary to make him a httle 
model in clay, which is elegantly draperied with the 
mantle. With this he is working away diligently.' The 
last fact is curious, as it is exactly the way Meissonier 
worked a hundred years after. I went to his studio 
shortly after his death, and saw all his httle clay models 
of cannons, figures, horses, roads, from which all his 
highly finished pictures were painted. The Goethe por- 
trait has a distinct dash of affectation in it, and the whole 
pose, excusable enough in Goethe, is of a man in the 
prime of his life who felt himself to be famous and knew 
himself to be handsome. To our ideas the picture is 
singularly devoid of colour, almost monochrome ; but it 
strikes one as very modern in treatment, considering its 
date, and for every reason it must always remain one of 
the interesting portraits of the world. In the early part 
of this century and during the Napoleonic days, when the 
Eothschilds of Frankfort began to spread themselves 
through Europe and establish their banking-houses in so 
many capitals, the son who went to Naples bought this 
great canvas of Tischbein's. In this way it has ulti- 
mately found a most fitting home — not in the small house 
which, Goethe truly said, would not admit it, but on the 
walls of this museum in his native town. 

The Staedel Institute has many artistically, interesting 
pictures most instructive to the student of the old masters, 



^8 MORE POT-POURRI 

both German and Italian. For those who wish to under- 
stand modem criticism and the altering of long-accepted 
catalogues attributing pictures to wrong artists I can 
most strongly recommend ' ItaUan Painters,' by Giovanni 
MoreUi (John Murray), translated into English by Con- 
stance Jocelyn Ffoulkes. Giovanni Morelli lived at 
Bergamo in Lombardy. He left as a legacy to his native 
town a small but very remarkable collection of pictures, 
the chief treasures of which are Dutch masterpieces. I 
imagine the ' Italian Painters ' is almost the root of the 
kind of modern criticism which has torn from us of the 
older generation many of the faiths of our youth. Eor 
instance, the famous Guide's 'Cenci' of the Barberini 
Palace for more than a century drew tears of pity from the 
eyes of poets and their followers as being a most tender 
representation of a famous criminal painted in prison, who, 
but for this supposed portrait of her, would never have 
been known to posterity. As a fact she was executed six or 
seven years before Guido arrived in Eome. Neither is the 
picture a Guido at all, but a study by some inferior painter 
of an unknown model. At least, this, I believe, is the 
last word on the subject. The favourite portrait of 
Baphael by himself in the Louvre, leaning on his hand, 
is not a portrait of him, nor is the picture painted by him. 
The great Holbein at Dresden is said now not to be the 
original, which is at Darmstadt ; and so on. In this 
Frankfort gallery there is an extraordinarily fine and 
interesting female portrait, hitherto attributed to Sebas- 
tiano del Piombo, but now supposed to bo by Sodoma. 
It is one of the gems of the collection. 

Before leaving England last year (1897) I had been 
immensely interested at hearing of the open-air treat- 
ment for phthisis as practised in Germany, the parent 
establishment of which is at Palkenstein, in the Taunus 
Mountains, close to Cronberg, where I was staying. I 



OCTOBER 79 

wished very much to visit this sanatorium myself, but 
circumstances rendered it impossible. 

A good account of it was published just after I came 
home, in the ' Practitioner ' for November, by Dr. Karl 
Hess, senior physician to the establishment. 

It cannot fail to strike us as we walk or drive past the 
Brompton Hospital, with its airless situation and its closed 
windows, how hopelessly different its conditions and treat- 
ment must be from those recommended — and apparently 
so successfully carried out — at Palkenstein. In Germany 
twenty sister establishments have been started, and the 
medical management is supposed to be now so complete 
against infection that German parents have no fear of send- 
ing delicate children to these cures, at the age of sixteen 
or seventeen, to be benefited by the outdoor treatment as 
% strengthener against the possibility of their catching 
tuberculosis. At Palkenstein, the parent institution, much 
meat is insisted on ; but I am told that at Nordrach 
Dr. Walther now gives very little meat, and sends away 
patients if they take any stimulant at all. He does cram 
them, but it is with enormous quantities of milk, cheese, 
butter, brown bread, and other farinaceous foods. 

"When I came home from Germany last year I noted 
three things which I hold to be of the utmost importance, 
and in which we seemed in England to be decidedly 
behind other nations. First, I wished to see estab- 
lished public slaughterhouses, duly inspected, not only 
in large towns, but in every village where beasts are 
slaughtered. It seems to me absurd to expect that the 
man who buys a beast, kills it himself, and counts on 
' selling the meat at a profit, should forego his gains solely 
for the public good. Meat is constantly eaten which is 
rejected by the Jewish priests, and I believe it is a 
statistically established fact that Jews have a great 
immunity from both consumption and cancer. It used 



8o MORE POT-POURRI 

to be supposed that this was because they were of a 
diflerent race from ourselves. I believe it is because they 
are much cleaner feeders than we are. 

Secondly, I would gladly have seen greater intelligence 
and knowledge on the part of the public as regards the 
danger to children and invalids who live almost exclu- 
sively on milk of drinking it unsterilised or unboiled, 
since one tuberculous cow infects the whole supply, and 
this is not possible to detect by any analysis of the milk. 

Thirdly, I wished that the German rational outdoor 
treatment of consumptive patients, when once they have 
caught tuberculosis, or are so constituted that they are 
likely to catch it, should be understood and practised in 
England. 

The strides that have been made towards the accom- 
plishment of these three wishes of mine during the last 
year is simply astonishing. The newly formed National 
Association for the Prevention of Tuberculosis, whose 
office is in Hanover Square, has for its great object to 
instruct people on the infectiousness of tuberculosis and 
the best methods of arresting it. Everyone who read the 
account of the first meeting of this society at Marl- 
borough House must have been struck with the fact that 
when the Queen's herd of cows was tested, thirty-six of 
them were condemned to be slaughtered. 

A century ago, when first invalids were sent to the 
Eiviera and Madeira, aU the doctors distinctly taught 
that the disease was hereditary and not infectious. The 
natives of these health resorts soon discovered, to their 
cost, that the disease was infectious ; for it spread amongst 
the population in the same way as it now has at Davos, 
, where tuberculosis was formerly unknown. The super- 
stition, as the doctors of the 'forties thought it, of the 
peasants round Nice — who held that consumption was 
really catching — made such an impression on my mother, 



OCTOBER 8 I 

whose whole soul was bent on saving her children from 
the disease of which their father died, that she brought 
us up on the lines of that belief, and kept us from every- 
one whom she in any way suspected of being consumptive, 
even when their complaint may have been but a constitu- 
tional cough. 

Perhaps this training is what has made me somewhat 
sceptical about the medical science of any day being 
absolutely conclusive. I sometimes think that the im- 
plicit faith that people are apt to place in doctors may be 
injurious to the community, and that experience and 
quackery sometimes turn out to be scientifically truer than 
the medical theory of the hour. Shocking as many will 
think the suggestion, I believe this may eventually prove 
to be the case even with regard to vaccination as a 
necessary preventive against small-pox epidemics, the 
great decrease of which may have been effected by many 
other circumstances. The itch, scurvy, and leprosy have 
practically also disappeared in England with improved 
food and cleanliness. Nowadays why should not a case 
of small-pox be stamped out as the plague was this year in 
Vienna ? Before Jenner's great discovery, even the most 
primitive methods of preventing infection were unknown. 
It is only within the last twenty years that these have 
been brought to anything like perfection, and only in 
the last ten years with regard to crowded localities. 

To return to tuberculosis. In spite of TyndaU's 
wonderfully clear, instructive, and interesting letters to 
the ' Times,' published more than twenty years ago, and 
which explained most thoroughly the infectiousness of 
consumption, the public have remained curiously ignorant 
on the subject. . As an illustration of this, a sad case 
occurred this year not far from here. A signalman who 
was mortally ill of consumption remained at his work in 
his signal-box on the line as long as it was possible for 

G 



82 MORE POT-POURRI 

him to get there. When the day came that he had to 
give in and remain at home to die, a young and healthy 
man replaced him in the signal-box, which had in no way 
been disinfected or whitewashed, and which, from its 
construction, was a sun-trap and the best dust-and-germ- 
producer that could be. A cattle-truck would have been 
differently treated ! The young man caught the disease 
and died in a few months. 

I iind in talking even to educated people a con- 
siderable tone of resentment on this subject. ' What ! ' 
they say, ' are our consumptives to be treated like lepers ? ' 
The poetry that hung about consumption in the early 
days of this sentimental century, its association with the 
South, with Madeira's orange groves and the sunshine of 
the Mediterranean, is now not easy to eradicate. The 
modern cure is stern, rough, and unattractive, and it is 
difficult at first to believe it to be the best for the hard, 
hacking cough and hectic flush of the patients. 

The homeward journey from Germany was much 
less pleasant than my journey out had been, in con- 
sequence of the fatal date having come which decides 
that German railway carriages shall be heated — or, as 
we English think, over-heated. This causes considerable 
suffering to those who stupidly, like myself, forget that 
an almost summer dress is required with plenty of wraps 
to prevent any chill on leaving the carriage. We passed 
Coblentz at early winter sunset-time, and I never saw 
anything more beautiful than all the tones of blues and 
pearly-grays under a sky spread with wave upon wave of 
bright pink clouds. Not Turner himself could have come 
near to the dehcate yet brilliant effect. Skies are fleeting 
enough, and the waves of rosy clouds quickly disappear, 
but the despairing swiftness of an express train is the 
quickest of all ; and in a moment Coblentz, with its towers, 
its fortress, and its beautiful sunlit sky was out of sight. 



OCTOBER 83 

I do think that if we would enjoy the Ehine in its 
beauty we must visit it in winter, when we see it as 
Turner saw it. What a pleasure it is now to go to those 
rooms on the ground floor of the National Gallery where 
Turner's sketches are ! I went there again the other day 
to see the Ehine of one's youth. What a king and 
creator of Impressionist sketching was Turner in his later 
manner ! He hfted the hilltops tiU they grew pink in 
the setting sun, and he trailed the long reflections to 
fathomless depths in the broad river. And was not the 
fortress defiantly impregnable in those days, and so 
rendered by him in those two wonderful pink and yellow 
and blue Ehrenbreitstein sketches? How quickly and 
easily all his effects and gradations are produced ! If they 
were not consummate, we should now call them cheap. 
I had not seen these rooms in the National Gallery for 
some years. They are beautifully arranged — so warm, so 
light, and alas ! so empty. At least, when I was there I 
wandered alone. How true it is that what we can have 
always we care for so little, and how we toil as tourists 
in foreign towns ! 

It seems rather ridiculous to have brought back from 
Germany a French poem. But I heard there for the first 
time one of Tosti's earlier songs, the words of which seemed 
to me sympathetic and fuU of charm. They are written 
by a Comtesse de Castellane, and, as they are very Uttle 
known apart from the music, I quote them here for the 
benefit of the non-singing world — which, after all, is 
rather a large one : 

VOUS ET MOI 

Vos yeux sereins et purs ont voulu me sourire, 
Votre main comme une aile a caresse ma main, 

Mais je ne sais trouver, Mlas I rien k vous dire. 
Car nous ne marchons pas dans le mSme chemin. 



84 MORE POT-POURRI 

Voua 6tes le soleil d'un beau jour qui commenoe, 
Et moi la nult profoude et I'horizon couvert ; 

Vous Stes fleur, 6toile, et joyense cadence, 
Vous ^tes le printemps, et moi je suis I'hiver I 

Vous buvez les rayons et respirez les roses, 
Car vous Stes I'aurore, et moi la fin du jour ; 

II faut nous dire adieu sans en chercher les causes. 
Car je suis le regret, et vous §tes I'amour. 

There are few acts, in my opinion, so blamable and so 
selfish as an old man marrying a young girl. He under- 
stands life and she does not, and the responsibiUty rests 
with him. Of course this does not apply to a woman 
past thirty who wants a home. 



8s 



NOVEMBEB 

Present of ' The Botanist ' — Eoheveria and Euphorbia splendens — 
Cowper on greenhouses — Cultivation of greenhouse plants— Book- 
seller at Frankfort — Dr. Wallace on Lilies — Receipts — Winter in 
the country— The sorting of old letters. 

November 1st. — One of those most pleasant echoes of 
my first book came to me to-day. I received a letter, 
addressed to the care of my publisher, from a lady who was 
so pleased with my commendation of her father's work 
('The Botanic Garden,' by B. Maund) that she kindly 
asked to be allowed to send me, what I had long wished 
to have, the five volumes of his second book, ' The Botanist ' 
— a gardening periodical which was published only for five 
years, as the coloured illustrations were too costly to 
be continued. The first number was issued in January 
1825. It contains full-page illustrations of stove, green- 
house, and new hardy plants — new, that is, in 1825. I 
have had it bound, and it is a great addition to my collec- 
tion of flower-books. The original drawings were chiefly 
made by Mrs. Withers, who was the first flower-painter 
of that day. The title-page bears the following inscrip- 
tion: 

' The Botanist : containing Accurately Coloured Figures 
of Tender and Hardy Ornamental Plants, with Descriptions 
Scientific and Popular, intended to convey both Moral and 
Intellectual Gratification.' A quotation is added from 
Sir J. E. Smith : ' The World seems to have discovered 
that nothing about which Infinite Wisdom has deigned to 



86 MORE POT-POURRI 

employ itself can, properly speaking, be unworthy of any 
of its creatures, how lofty soever their pursuits and 
pretensions may be.' The flowers are beautifully drawn 
and delicately coloured, one on a page — not on the same 
principle as ' The Botanic Garden.' But it is as full as that 
is of interesting information, not the leagt perhaps being 
the derivation of the names of plants, some of which we 
use every day. For instance, ' Bcheveria ' is derived from 
M. Echever, a botanical painter. 

Euplwrbia spleiidens is an interesting and effective 
stove-plant. It is a native of Madagascar, and the name 
it bears in its own country is ' Soongo-Soongo.' It is among 
the plants one need not fear to buy, as cuttings strike 
easily under a hand-glass. I mention it, as I bought it 
last year at a sale not knowing what it was. Oxalis 
loiuiei I also have, and try to grow it out of doors in a 
very sheltered placis. Like most of the finer Oxalises, it 
is a native of the Cape. I was not here, as I have said, in 
the summer this year ; but when I returned, it looked very 
dried up and unsatisfactory. This is what William Herbert, 
the author of ' Amaryllidacea,' before mentioned, says of 
its cultivation : ' This most beautiful and florid plant is 
hardy ' (where mine came from it had been out of doors for 
years) ' and in the open ground will flower in the autumn.' 
(I expect a bell-glass would greatly help this.) ' But it 
blossoms most profusely when kept in a pot under glass, 
especially if, after a short period of rest at midsummer, it 
is placed in a stove or warm greenhouse for a very short 
time to make it start freely. Its flowers expand in very 
moderate temperature. Like all the Oxalises, the flowers 
are very sensible to light, and only expand thoroughly 
when the strong clear sunshine falls upon them.' These 
early-going-to-sleep plants are rather trying, as they never 
look their best when one wants to show them off in the 
afternoon. 



NOVEMBER 87 

The stalks or canes of Michaelmas Daisies should be 
cut down carefuUy, trimmed, and dried, as they make 
excellent sticks for plants in pots or even out of doors, 
and are well worth saving. 

November 3rd. — A lady writes strongly recommending 
a Tea-rose called ' Ma Capucine.' ' Such lovely red-scarlet 
buds from June to December,' she says. This I have now 
ordered. I have moved my white ' Lamarque Eose,' but I 
cannot get it to do well here. The Dean of Rochester wrote 
me a most kind letter reproaching me for saying I could 
not grow Eoses, and implying that the fault is mine. This 
I know to be true, but the fact is I am so fond of variety 
in flowers, as in all else, that I grudge too much room in 
the garden being given to Eoses ; and the attention and 
hand-picking they require in the spring, when I am 
very busy with other things, cause them to be neglected. 

Another correspondent from the north of London 
wrote that I exaggerated the difficulty of growing Eoses 
near London. He says he has had good success with 
his. But then he lives on heavy soil, and that makes an 
extraordinary difference in their power of resisting their 
enemies — smoke, blight, etc. 

This year a Crimson Eambler that failed near a wall 
(I believe they never do well on walls) has made prodigious 
growth out in the open. I have cut out the old wood, 
spread out the long shoots, and tied them down to 
canes on either side, so as to increase the flowering 
all along the branches. Underneath is a large bed of 
' Mrs. Simpkin ' Pinks, and I think the two together 
will !)e pretty. 

November 7th. — I am always being asked about green- 
house plants, and how to get variety both for picking or 
for ornamenting a small greenhouse next a room. It has 
been rather the fashion of late to say : ' Oh ! I don't care 
for greenhouse plants ; I only like hardy things.' This 



88 MORE POT-POURRI 

surely is a mistake. Cowper, that now-neglected poet, 

Who loves a garden, loves a greenhouse too. 

Unconscious of a less propitious clime, 

There blooms exotic beauty, warm and snug, 

While the winds whistle and the snows descend. 

The spiry Myrtle with unwithering leaf 

Shines there and flourishes. The Golden Boast 

Of Portugal and Western India there. 

The ruddier Orange and the paler Lime, 

Peep through their polish'd foliage at the storm, 

And seem to smile at what they need not fear. 

The Amomum there with intermingling flowers 

And Cherries hangs her twigs. Geranium boasts 

Her crimson honours, and the spangled Bean, 

Ficoides, glitters bright the winter long. 

All plants, of every leaf that can endure 

The winter's frown if screen'd from its shrewd bite, 

Live there and prosper. Those Ausonia claims, 

Levantine regions these ; the Azores send 

Their Jessamine, her Jessamine remote 

CafEraria. Foreigners from many lands. 

They form one social shade, as if convened 

By magic summons of the Orphean lyre. 

Yet just arrangement, rarely brought to pass 

But by a master's hand, disposing well 

The gay diversities of leaf and flower. 

Must lend its aid to illustrate all their charms, 

And dress the regular yet various scene. 

Plant behind plant aspiring : in the van 

The dwarfish ; in the rear retired, but still 

Sublime above the rest, the statelier stand. 

In spite of ■what I consider the excellent gardening 
spirit in these lines, how curiously non-poetical they are 
according to the ideas of our day ! In my edition of 
Cowper there is a footnote to the word' Ficoides,' explaining 
it as ' Ice-plant,' which is an annual Mesembrianthemum ; 
whereas he probably meant some of the perennial flower- 
ing Mesembrianthemums, which, I think, are beautiful 
things in a winter greenhouse, in a pot, and hanging from 



NOVEMBER 89 

a shelf. All the same I imagine it would be possible to 
sow the Ice-plant so late that it might go on growing 
through the winter in a pot, though its beauty can never 
be so great as on a broiling-hot summer's day. 

I agree with every word that Cowper says, and his lines 
suggest what I want specially to urge on those who pass 
the winter in the country. Greenhouses were new in 
Cowper's time and the pleasure of them has probably 
been wiped out — or, at any rate, greatly diminished — 
by the way people who can afford such luxuries are now 
always rushing away in search of sunshine in other 
chmes, and are content to come back in June and find 
their flourishing herbaceous borders, that have been asleep 
under manure all the winter, surpassing in luxuriance of 
colour and form the gardens of the South. One of the 
least helpful volumes of the large edition of Mrs. Loudon's 
' Lady's Flower Garden ' is the one called ' Ornamental 
Greenhouse Plants ' — so many things she recommends 
to grow are now proved to be hardy, and so many others 
that . we now know to be well worth the trouble of 
cultivation for flowering in the winter are omitted alto- 
gether. I know no modern book that quite tells one 
enough how to keep a small conservatory furnished all 
the year round. 

Greenhouse flowers can be most interesting and 
various, and I propose each month through the winter 
to name fresh things as they come on and are brought 
into the small conservatory next my sitting-room. I aro 
too ignorant to speak of any plants except those I grow 
The conservatory faces east and south, so it gets what sun 
there is to be had in winter. I removed the stages that 
were there, except two shelves close to the glass on the 
east side. I took up the tiles and dug a bed close to the 
north wall, which is against the drawing-room chimney, 
and another bed on the west side of the small square. 



90 MORE POT-POURRI 

These beds make the difference between a greenhouse 
and a conservatory. When I speak of a bed I mean that, 
though the floor of the greenhouse is tiled, the plants are 
planted in the ground. This is very essential in any con- 
servatory, whether large or small. On the north side, facing 
south, is planted out what has now grown into a huge plant 
of Henry Jacobi. It has been there some years, and is cut 
down very severely about this time every year. Next to it 
is a quaint plant, one of the Platyceriums, growing on a 
piece of board hung on the wall, which requires nothing 
but occasional watering. Below that are two French 
flower-pots that hang flat against the wall and are fiUed 
with Maidenhair. A plant of the sweet yellow Jasmine and 
a plant of pale Heliotrope, both in the ground, are aU the 
wall will hold on this side. In the middle of the other bed 
next the west wall, and also planted out, are a large sweet- 
scented double-white Datura; a white Niphetos Eose, 
which runs up a pole to the glass roof ; a common Passion- 
flower, to make shade in summer ; and a blue Plumbago 
capense. By the side of the door, growing up a vrire, is a 
dark green Smilax, that has been there for many years and 
gives no trouble. The other things are in pots, and are con- 
stantly changed and moved. I grow both Pancretiums and 
Crinums ; they are indeed worthy of every attention, and 
ought to be in all carefully selected collections. They are 
so sweet, so delicate, and so lovely ! — all that we prize most 
in single flowers. There are a great many kinds of both 
Pancretiums and Crinums. (See Johnson's ' Gardener's 
Dictionary.') Even the hardier Crinums in pots requu-e 
heat at the growing-time, and they often have to be grovm 
for several years after they are bought before they flower 
at all ; but, once started, they seem to flower each year. 
I have a Crinum moorei out of doors which makes its 
leaves every year, but has not yet flowered. 

I try to arrange the plants in groups in this conserva- 



NOVEMBER 91 

tory. Whether there are ten plants of one kind, or only 
two, they are placed together ; and if there are different 
plants more or less of one colour, they too are massed to- 
gether. I think this makes the most immense difference 
in the pleasure to be got out of a greenhouse, and increases 
the colour-value of everything grown in it, as the power 
of one plant to kill or injure the colour of another is far 
more felt in a greenhouse than even in the open border. 
I have, now flowering, my usual number of the protected 
Chrysanthemums. They are less good than last year, the 
wet June and dry August not having suited them. Last 
year the hardy early outdoor Chrysanthemums were very 
good indeed ; this year the season has been even harder 
on them than on the pot-plants. All the same they should 
be very much grown in all gardens. They transplant 
quite easily from the reserve garden at any time from 
August onwards. I have yellow, orange, pink, white, 
dark red, and a very dark yellow, which seems to last the 
longest and be the hardiest. Some few cottage gardens 
have better varieties than I can boast. The great secret for 
the late-flowering hardy Chrysanthemums is to get them 
against walls and, still better, under the protection of 
shrubs. Many of the greenhouse Chrysanthemums will also 
flower perfectly out of doors, if only planted late in the 
summer under shrubs, as I have just said. In this way they 
get a natural protection on cold nights. The last two years 
I have grown for the greenhouse, in pots, a Michaelmas 
Daisy that is new to me, called Aster grandiflora. It has 
a stiff, pretty growth, and is quite hardy ; but it flowers so 
late that it does not come to perfection out of doors. It 
looks very well under glass in front of a group of white 
Chrysanthemums. The flowers are as large as Aster 
amellus, and of the same colour, which is so different in 
tone from that of any of the Chrysanthemums. It reminds 
me a little of Stokesia cyanea, which I used to grow in the 



92 MORE POT-POURRI 

same way ; only that did not stand the moving and pot- 
ting up nearly so well as this Aster does. I dare say I 
did not manage it rightly. 

November &th. — There is a famous seller of old books 
in Frankfort named Baer. He lives in the Eossmarkt, and 
some of my best old flower-books I have had from him. 
I brought home this time one of those books that delight 
a collector's heart, a really very fine one. I have been 
told by an artist who saw it here that it must have cost 
more than 2,0001. to bring it out. The book consists of 
two elephant folios bound in old stamped white vellum, 
and bringing them back as a parcel was not exactly easy. 
There is no letterpress at all in the first volume. It has 
two handsome frontispieces in the Dutch manner, with 
Flora and another goddess holding a large straw bee- 
hive. In the middle is the title, written in Latin and 
printed on what is supposed to represent a sheet of 
parchment hung from a classical building with columns 
on each side. At the bottom is a representation of the 
Garden of Eden with trees and various animals, all well 
drawn. Adaai is walldng with the Almighty, who is 
represented by the figure of an old man surrounded by 
what in early Italian art is called a mandorla or almond- 
shaped glory. Miss Hope Eea, in ' Tuscan Artists,' says of 
this almond-shaped glory : ' In Christian symbohsm and art 
it is reserved for Christ, and has a profound signification. 
Though called a mandorla, or almond, it is really intended 
to represent the form of a fish ; and this, from the days of 
the Church of the Catacombs, was the accepted symbol of 
Christ, because the letters of the Greek ichthus^=&.sh, give 
the initials for the Greek words ' Jesus Christ, Son of God, 
the Saviour.' Mrs. Jameson, in ' Sacred and Legendary 
Art,' gives the Latin name, vesica piscis, for the oblong 
glory surrounding the whole person. She says that it is 
' confined to figures of Christ and the Virgin, or Saints 



NOVEMBER 93 

who are in the act of ascending into heaven.' It is, 
therefore, in ignorance that this German of the early- 
days of the seventeenth century surrounds the Almighty 
with this almond-shaped glory instead of a glory round the 
head. The book is called ' Hortus Eystettensis,' and was 
brought out in 1613 by Basil Bssler, an apothecary. On 
each side of the columns are two draped male figures 
representing Solomon and Cyrus. The whole page is 
coloured (highly rather than beautifully) by hand ; and the 
large first volume must contain over three hundred pages, 
with designs of all kinds of flowers and fruit beautifully 
drawn and coloured. I believe the book with only out- 
line representations of the flowers is not very uncommon, 
but coloured copies are exceedingly rare. In fact, Herr 
Baer told me he had never seen another. Whether the 
colouring dates from the time of printing or not it is 
difficult to say. The paper is beautiful, the whole in 
excellent condition, and it is a treasure from a collector's 
point of view. Binders were careless in those days, as 
one sheet is bound upside down. The second volume is 
not quite so thick, but the plates are of even greater 
beauty. It contains a curious copyright, given by;Loui3 
XIII., King of Prance and Navarre. The date of the 
book being 1613, the young king was only twelve years 
old when he granted this protection to his good servant 
Basil Besler, who had been put to such great expense 
in producing his book. 

November 10th. — I find several of the Japanese 
Maples so well worth growing and quite hardy , here. 
They make very little growth, and want dry, sunny, 
protected places, where they suffer sometimes ifrom 
drought, but recover by the following year, and are 
delightful plants. Golden Privet is a very pretty-growing 
plant when young, out of doors or in pots. It hasj^been 
much used of late in London in window-boxes. I 



94 MORE POT-POURRI 

have never tried to see i£ it v^ould keep its leaves in a 
room. 

November 13th. — I gathered to-day a small but bright, 
well-grown Oriental Poppy ; and several of the Delphi- 
niums, cut down in summer, have flowered beautifully a 
second time. One cannot provide for or be sm'e of these 
out-of-season garden surprises ; but when they come by 
chance — some one year, some another — they are very 
delightful, intaresting, and precious. They are like an 
unexpected piece of good fortune, or the return of a long- 
absent friend, who, one thought, had quite forgotten one, 
and who returns as on the day he left — as friendly, as kind, 
and as confidential. Such surprises push back for a 
moment the dial of the clock — a thing not to be despised 
even as a passing illusion, whether in the late autumn of 
' a garden or of life. 

November 18th. — Two days later than I have ever 
before remained down here ! It is such beautiful 
weather. In these mild days the singing of birds comes 
slightly as a surprise, so different from the silence of 
August and September. How little one realises during 
this silence that the birds, thrushes especially, begin to 
sing now in November, and keep on all through the 
winter in mild weather till the end of June. The robin 
did not like the dry season ; he began to sing so late this 
year. 

Noveviber 9,0th. — Most people who have gardens wish 
to grow Lilies, and yet very few are really successful with 
them. By far the finest I have seen in this part of the 
world were grown in an Azalea bed, in more than half- 
shade, and copiously hosed all through the hot dry 
weather. They were really beautiful. A book called 
' Notes on Lilies and their Culture,' by Dr. Wallace of 
Colchester, has only lately come to my knowledge, and I 
am quite sure anyone who wishes to grow Lihes will not 



NOVEMBER 95 

get on well without it. It is an admirable book ; in fact, 
its only fault is that it is so comprehensive one feels, as 
with most of the specialist gardening books, that the rest 
of one's life must be spent in trying to understand that 
one plant. I think there is a good deal to be said for 
this kind of gardening. As the amateur advances in 
knowledge he naturally wishes to grow with extra 
perfection some plants with which everybody cannot 
succeed. And I think, in the case of small gardens near 
towns, that it would be a real interest for a man to grow, 
let us say. Lilies from Dr. Wallace's book, or Irises by 
the advice of Professor Foster, or Cactuses according to 
Mr. Watson. This has been done over and over again in 
the case of Eoses; but rarely, in my experience, with 
other plants. 

November 27th. — My principal flower- table in summer ■ 
is in a cool hall away from the sun. In winter, now that 
I live here all the year round, I have it in the sitting- 
room, close to a large south window. The sun in summer 
quickly kills flowers that are cut and in water, but in 
vrinter this is not so. On the contrary, it seems to cheer 
them up and make them open out and look happy. I 
will describe this flower-table as it stands before me. At 
the back, in a pot, is a baby Araucaria (Puzzle-monkey). 
These trees, so ugly when growing on a lawn, are 
charming in the baby stage. They can be grown from seed, 
and they do very well in a room. This little tree is raised 
on a Japanese stand. Beside it is a pot containing a small 
orchid, Odontoglosswn picturatum, one mass of flowers like 
yellow Violets. Various Cypripediums are in front in a 
glass, and Imantophyllums that have stood out all the 
summer and thrown up a few late autumn flowers ; they 
are always most effective picked. There are also pieces cut 
from a bright yellow Coronilla flowering out of doors 
against a greenhouse wall, a bunch of white Paris Daisies 



96 MORE POT-POURRI 

that were left out to be killed by the frost and are still 
flourishing, and a bunch of the black berries of the common 
Privet, which contrast well with a few bright orange 
Gazanias, also left out to perish early in the year from 
cold and dryness, but of which we always take cuttings, 
as it has this great merit of late flowering out of doors. 
Finally, there is a precious bunch of Neapolitan Violets. 
For the first hour or two after they are picked I always 
put a small bell-glass over them, as the warm moisture 
from condensation under the glass very much increases 
their sweetness. 

I do not find it recommended in any of the modern 
gardening books that I have, but I am sure, if you want 
your Lilacs to flower well and never assume that weedy 
choked appearance that they generally have in gardens, 
it is most important to remove, every winter, the 
numerous suckers that smTound Lilac bushes. When 
this is done, it is as well to introduce a little manure 
round the roots. 

Eeceipts 

An excellent winter salad is made by mashing potatoes 
as if for a purie, and beating them up with a little 
lukewarm weak stock or warm water instead of milk, and 
no butter. Then dress them with a little chopped chive, oil 
and vinegar, pepper and salt. This is good vsdth braised 
meats or boiled salt beef, and can be endlessly improved 
and varied by covering it up after it is dressed with 
chopped hard-boiled eggs, beetroot, cucumbers bottled in 
vinegar, anchovies, etc., etc. In fact, with these kinds of 
salads one can give hardly any rule, as imagination and 
experiments are everything. The ordinary red cabbage 
makes a very good salad. It must be cut into very fine 
shreds, then scalded by pouring a large kettle of boiling 
water over it. When cool, but not cold, it should be 



NOVEMBER 97 

dressed with oil and vinegar, like ordinary salad, covered 
up, and allowed to stand for two or three hours. 

Pheasant stuffed with Woodcocks.— The French 
say : ' To the uninitiated this bird is as a sealed book ; 
eaten after it has been killed but three days, it is insipid 
and bad — neither so delicate as a pullet, nor so odoriferous 
as quail. Cooked at the right moment, the flesh is tender 
and the flavoiur subUme, partaking equally of the qualities 
of poultry and game. The moment so necessary to be 
known and seized on is when decomposition is about to 
take pl^e. A trifling odour and a change in the coloiu: 
of the breast are manifested, and great care must be taken 
not to pluck the bird till it is to be larded and cooked, as 
the contact of the air will completely neutralise the aroma, 
consisting of a subtle oil, to which hydrogen is fatal. 
The bird being larded, the first thing to do is to stuff it, 
which is effected in the following manner : Provide two 
woodcocks, bone and divide them into two portions, the 
one being the flesh, and the other trail, brains, and livers. 
You then take the flesh and make a forcemeat by chop- 
ping it up with some beef-marrow cooked by steam, a 
little rasped bacon, pepper, salt, fine herbs, and so much 
of the best truffles as will, with the above, quite fill the 
interior of the pheasant. You must take care to secure 
this forcemeat in such a manner that it shall not escape, 
which is sometimes sufficiently difficult if the bird is in 
an advanced state; however, it is possible to do so in 
diverse ways, one of which is by fitting a crust of bread 
and attaching it with a bit of ribbon. Take a slice of 
bread one-third of an inch thick and two inches wider 
on each side than the bird when laid on it. Then take the 
livers, brains, and the trail of the woodcocks ; pound them 
up with two large truffles, an anchovy, a little rasped 
bacon, and as much of the finest fresh butter as may 
seem necessary. Spread then this paste on the toast 

H 



98 MORE POT-POURRI 

feiqually, and let the pheasant, prepared as above, be 
roasted over it in such a manner as that the toast may be 
saturated with the juices that drop during the operation 
of roasting. "When that is done, serve the pheasant grace- 
fully laid on its bed (the toast). Garnish with Seville 
Orange, and be tranquil as to the result.' This extract 
frota ' Les Classiques de la Table ' (p. 129) I have taken 
from ' The Gentlewoman.' The gourmets must make 
haste and try this dish, for fear that woodcocks, which 
are getting very scarce, should disappear altogether. It 
is Tather a mystery why they are becoming so rare in 
England, for they are birds that migrate. It has been 
suggested as an explanation that sport is now so cosmo- 
politan, and breech-loading weapons have so favourably 
handicapped the modem gunner, that the woodcock is 
being gradually eliminated. Poor Uttle, clever, swift-flying 
thing, he is' safe nowhere ! 

Mince-meat for Christmas should be made about 
the 20th of this month. I think this old Suffolk receipt 
is better than the one in 'Dainty Dishes' or in Mrs. 
EoundeU's ' Practical Cookery.' The following directions 
are for a large quantity, but of course the proportions 
can be greatly reduced : Two pounds of beef suet finely 
chopped, two pounds of raisins stoned and chopped, 
two pounds of currants washed and picked, two pounds 
of apples chopped fine, one pound and a half of raw beef 
scraped and chopped fine (every little bit of gristle having 
first been tetooved), one pound of finely preserved ginger, 
six lemons (juice and peel), twelve oranges (only the 
juice), a little salt, one pound and a half of sugar^ a little 
Spice. Mix well with brandy and sherry to taste. Keep 
in stone jars in a cool place. 

German Way of Warming: up Potatoes.— Boil 
thiem, l6t theim get cold, cut them in thin:> slices into a 



NOVEMBER 99 

fii'eprbof dish, add a little butter and milk, grate some 
Parmesan cheese on the top, and bake in the oven. 

Boiled Beef. — Take six to eight pounds of good fat 
top-side or silver-side, beat it very hard on all sides with 
a. heavy wooden oak-log to break the fibre. Put it into a 
deep earthenware pot or copper stewpan, with about five 
to five and a half quarts of cold water, adding all its 
bones and all the parings and bones you may have over 
from the joints, chickens, etc., of previous days. Let it 
come gently to the boil, remove all the rising scum, then 
add two leeks, two carrots, half a celeriao, one turnip, and 
several sprigs of parsley and chervil. Put the lid on so 
that a small slit remains open. Place it by the side of 
the fire so that it should not get off the boil, and yet only 
boil quite gently. Leave to boil for three and a half to 
four hours from its first boil. Serve with a garnish of the 
vegetables cooked in the broth and little hors-d'auvre of 
salted cucumbers, horse-radish grated finely and dressed 
with oil and vinegar, beetroot salad, cress salad, celeriao 
salad— in fact, endless variations. It is very good with a 
plain tomato sauce (Erench system). 

Minced CoUops. — Pass as much raw lean gravy beef 
as you require two or three times through a niincing 
machine. Pry it in about two ounces of butter for a |ew 
minutes. Add pepper, salt, a little flour, and gravy or 
water. Let this simmer for about twenty minutes, 
keeping it well stirred to prevent it getting lumpy. A 
little minced onion may be fried with the butter, and is 
a great improvement. This receipt is very useful in wild 
countries where the meat is hard and bad, and where 
other food is deficient. 

How to Dress Cod. — Take some sUces of a small 
cod, and bake them in the oven in a little butter, with a 
squeeze of lemon-juice, exactly as you wbiild do salmon. 
Serve with Tartare Sauce, as in ' Dainty Dishes ' ; only, 

b2 



100 MORE POT-POURRI 

instead of putting it in a boat, which means a wastefully 
large quantity, serve it in a little flat dish with a small 
spoon. Brown bread and butter should also be handed 
with it. 

November 21st. — This is the first time in my life that 
the short days have drawn in shorter and shorter and 
that I have found myself alone, having to make up my 
mind that being alone is my future, that my time is at 
my own disposal, and that I am to live so always, except 
for occasional visitors, who will grow fewer as time 
goes on. 

It is not sad to turn the face towards home, 
Even though it shows the journey nearly done ; 
It is not sad to mark the westering sun, 

Even though we know the night doth come. 

I do not dread loneliness in itself ; but those who live 
with one, if they are kind and just, do take their share of 
the burden of life, and it is hard to have no one to whom 
one can go vrith those numberless little things which are 
often big things in Ufe's routine, and that one hides away 
from those who come in from the outside world as guests, 
be they ever so near and dear. It is best to keep oneself 
continually occupied, and one realises that though the 
end cannot be so very far off, yet the natural love of 
life is very strong indeed and an immense help. In a 
little volume of poems called ' lonica,' very well known 
to a few, but which I believe has not spread to a large 
pubUc, there are two poems which I think strike singularly 
sympathetic notes. The four Hnes of 'Eemember,' do 
they not come home to one with all the tenderness of a 
message ? 

Tou come not, as aforetime, to the headstone every day, 
And I, who died, I do not chide because, my friend, yon play ; 
Only, in playing, think of him who once was kind and dear, 
And, if you see a beauteous thing, just say, ' He is not here.' 



NOVEMBER loi 

I reverse the position of these poems in the volume, 
this short one being at the very end, and the following 
almost in the beginning. I wonder if those who don't 
know them will like them as much as I do : 

You promise heavens free trom strife, 

Pure truth, and perfect change of will ; 
But sweet, sweet is this human life — 
So sweet I fain would breathe it still ; 
Your chilly stars I can forego, 
This warm kind world is all I know. 

You say there is no substance here. 

One great reality above ; 
Back from that void I shrink in fear, 
And child-like hide myself in love ; 
Show me what angels feel. Till then 
I cling, a mere weak man, to men. 

You bid me lift my mean desires 

From faltering lips and fitful veins. 
To sexless souls, ideal quires. 
Unwearied voices, wordless strains ; 
My mind with fonder welcome owns 
One dear dead friend's remembered tones. 

Forsooth, the present we must give 

To that which cannot pass away ; 

All beauteous things for which we live 

By laws of time and space decay. 

But oh, the very reason why 

I clasp them is because they die. 

Great grief, like great joy, has a right to be selfish — for 
a time, at any rate. Everyone recognises this, and in fact 
wishes to minister to it so long as the selfishness does 
not extend, as it were, to the grief itself or to a feeling of 
rebellion against the inevitable, which tends to hardness 
and paralyses the sympathy of friends and relations. 
' To the old sorrow is sorrow, to the young it is despair.' 
We must not forget this. The highest ideal of how to 



102 MORE POT-POURRI 

receive grief with dignity is admirably expressed in this 
sonnet by Mr. Aubrey de Vere, though the moraLreaches 
almost unattainable heights : 

Count each affliction, vrhethei light or grave, 

God's messenger sent down to thee ; do thon 

With courtesy receive him ; rise and bow 
And, ere his footsteps cross thy threshold, crave 
Permission first his heavenly feet to lave. 

Then lay before him all thou hast, allow 

No cloud of passion to usurp thy brow 
Or mar thy hospitality ; no wave 

Of mortal tumult to obliterate 
The soul's marmoreal calmness. Grief should be, 

Like joy, majestic, equable, sedate. 
Conforming, cleansing, raising, making free, 

Strong to control small troubles, to conamand 

Great thoughts, grave thoughts, thoughts lasting to the end. 

November 3Qth. — A long, gloomy, lonely day. I 
thought this evening I would look through a large box I 
have upstairs full of old letters and papers left to me, and 
which I have always intended to sort at my leisure. 
They have been there for years, but I have never had 
time, in the hurry and business of life, even to glance 
through them. It is an employment that requires rather 
a pecuHar state of mind, a quiet eddy away from the too 
rapid swirl of ordinary hfe. Such an occupation must 
recall to the memory of anyone who has ever read it 
Professor Max MiiUer's preface to his charming little 
story called ' German Love,' which was published as long 
ago as 1877. The little book treats of love — the eternal 
famihar subject — with that touch of genius that makes 
originality, and the preface fits so curiously vrith my 
thoughts to-night that I think I must quote it : 

' Who has not once in his life sat down at a desk 
where shortly before another sat who now rests in the 
grave? Who has not had to open th^ locks which for 
long years hid the most sacred secrets of a heart that 



NOVEMBER 103 

now lies hidden in the holy calm of the churchyard'? 
Here are the letters which were so loved by him whom 
we all loved so well ; here are pictures and ribbons," and 
books with marks on every page. Who can now read 
and decipher them ? Who can gather together the faded 
and broken leaves of this rose, and endow them once 
more with living fragrance? The flames which among 
the Greeks received the body of the departed for fiery 
destruction — the flames into which the ancients cast 
everything that had been most dear to the living — are 
still the safest resting-places for ;such relics. With 
trembling hesitation the bereaved friend reads the pages 
which no eye had ever seen, save the one now closed for 
ever ; and when he has satisfied himself by a rapid glance 
that these pages and letters contain nothing which the 
world calls important, he throws them hastily on the, 
glowing coals ; they flame up, and are gone. 

' From such flames the following pages were saved. 
They were intended at first for the friends only of the lost 
one; but as they have found friends amongst strangers 
they may, since so it is to be, wander forth again into the 
wide world.' 

I began my task, turned over the old mouldy papers 
of long, long ago, and came across a bundle of the early 
love-letters of my father and mother. So long as I live 
I cannot allow them to be consigned to the flames, as 
Professor Mas Miiller recommends. They are so simple, 
so touching and interesting in their old-world language, 
that my first impulse was to string them together 
anonymously, adding the httle tale of the love affair as 
perhaps no one but I could do. But even without names 
this might possibly have shocked the taste of people who 
are sensitive on the subject of letters. I am not one of 
those who object to the publishing of love-letters, given . 
suffisient time for personal knowledge and recollection of 



104 MORE POT-POURRI 

the writers to have crumbled away. Voltaire said : ' On 
doit des regards aux vivants : on ne doit aux morts que 
la v6rit6.' Had I myself written beautiful love-letters in 
my youth, it would be a pride and joy to me to think that 
generations unborn should appreciate and enjoy the 
depths of my devotion, and forgive my weaknesses for 
the one great reason which will endure for ever, ' because 
she loved much." A little boy asked : ' Why is every- 
one called " poor " and " good " when they are put into a 
box in the ground ? ' I say : What is it all the world for- 
gives in the future, though at the time society must defend 
itself by hard judgments and stern morahty ? What we 
aU think vile and odious, and what shocks all our best 
sensibility, though it is inevitable, is the publication of 
even the most commonplace love-letters in the police 
or divorce courts. But does not love, above everything 
that we share with our common humanity, belong to aU ? 
Is it not the most brilliant, glorious possession we have ? 
Are we not really proud of it even when it is mis- 
directed ? Is not the perusal of unselfish, passionate, de- 
voted letters — such as, for instance, Mary WoUstoneoraft's 
letters to Imlay (a perfectly unworthy object) — a better 
lesson to women than all the articles, all the lectures, 
and all the sermons ever preached? And why should we 
not each of us gain strength through the publication of 
letters which show the weakness of love in gifted beings 
like Keats and Shelley ? I cannot see any objection, and 
with pride and joy would I have given, to those who oared 
to read it, this interesting Uttle bundle of papers, yellowed 
by time, and written by my parents in the sunshine of their 
youth, portraying that nothing really came between the 
two but that old struggle — difference of opinion on religious 
subjects — and also showing the confident hope on both 
sides that love ought to conquer. 

Time crystallises, to my mind, such material into 



NOVEMBER 105 

biography ; and the more absolutely true biography is, the 
more interesting it becomes to the public. I have noted 
down from some book — perhaps Symonds's Life — that ' the 
first canon in the art of unsophisticated letter-writing is 
that, just as a speech is intended for hearers rather than 
for readers, so is a letter meant for the eye of a friend 
and not for the world. The very essence of good letter- 
writing is, in truth, the deliberate exclusion of out- 
siders and the fuU surrender of the vyriter to the spirit 
of egotism — amicable, free, light-handed, unpretending, 
harmless, but still egotism. The best letters' are always 
improvisations, directly or indirectly, about yourself and 
your correspondent.' Letters of this kind are, in my 
opinion,. the very ones most worth giving to the public. The 
man of the world says : ' Burn all letters, and only vrrite 
insignificant notes with little meaning in them so that 
there may be nothing for others to keep.' Goethe says : 
' Letters are among the most significant memorials 
a man can leave behind him.' This seems to me 
true of private individuals, as well as of those who have 
played a notable or distinguished part on life's stage. 
But this is not the general opinion^ — to which I, being 
only a prudent old woman, am content to bow — and once 
more return to the box this touching, interesting, and 
characteristic love-story of my father and mother. I find, 
however, one letter written by my father, and dated 1834, 
which is so impersonal and so different from the ordinary 
love-letter to a young girl that I think it can appear an 
indiscretion to no one that I should publish it. 

They met for the first time by chance on a summer's 
afternoon for a little over an hour, and so completely was 
it love at first sight on his side that he told , my mother 
afterwards he would gladly have married her there and 
then had it been possible. She belonged to a Tory family, 
so bigoted and narrow in their ideas that they could hardly 



io6 MORE POT-POURRI 

find a parallel in our day ; and on to this ti?aimng, with heit 
hatred of worldliness and with all the enthusiasm of her 
youthful aspirations, she had grafted an almost Method- 
istical view of the duties of a Christian. His views, on 
the other hand, were on all points those of an advanced 
Liberal of the early days of John Stuart Mill. Circum- 
stances kept them apart for four years, and at the end of 
three, after an accidental meeting, he wrote her the 
following letter. With all its humility, one can easily 
see that his object was the enlightenment of a mind 
which had been narrowed by its training : 

' Sunday night, July 1834. 
' Pray do not think I mean to force another letter upon 
you. Your word is law to me, and I feel too deeply 
obliged to you for aU you have so kindly and generously 
risked, in order to afford me the gratification of hearing 
from you, to think of going myself or endeavouring to 
force you one step beyond what you think right and 
proper in this respect. I only wish to say one word upon 
the two or three books I am venturing to send you. I 
was delighted with your intention of continuing German, 
because I am convinced that you will derive great 
pleasure and benefit from your study of it. It is a 
language which, from its power of expressing abstract 
ideas, to say nothing of its structure and the facihty 
which exists in it of forming endless combinations of 
words, is of a much higher order than any other 
European language. It approaches nearest to the Greek, 
and is no bad substitute to those who have never had 
an opportunity of studying that language. No foreigner 
can learn it without acquiring many new ideas and 
rendering clearer some which he possessed before. There 
is much, too, in the mind of the Germans as reflected in 
their literature, the high tone of sentiment in their moral 



NOVEMBER 107 

•writings, and the constant reference to the ideal In theit 
philosophy, which could not fail to be interesting tod 
attractive to you. Unfortunately I do not know how far 
you are advanced in your study of the language, but I think 
I remember your telling me that you had but just begun 
it. I have therefore sent you "Klauer's Manual," the 
best book for self-tuition which has been published, 
and I have marked in the Index a few of the selections 
which are perhaps the easiest to begin with. There is 
this advantage in the book, that should you be so far 
advanced as not to need the interlinear translation, the 
selections which are given without it contain some 
admirable passages from the best authors. Should you 
be but just beginning I should advise you to learn by 
heart only the articles, y" five personal pronouns, and 
ye three auxiliary verbs ; and then, looking over the 
conjugation of the regular verb, proceed at once to read 
the pieces in the 1^' vol. in the order in which they are 
marked, using the S""* vol. (in which they are trans- 
lated) as the key. You will find the numbers of the 
pieces in the 2°'^ vol. corresponding with those in the 
1''. I have. also sent you a little volume of Schiller's 
poems, with a few which I hke marked. I should advise 
you, if any took your fancy, to learn them by heart ; it is 
an agreeable way of getting into one's mind a great fund 
of words to be serviceable on all occasions. I had some 
difficulty in getting you the " Morgen und Abendopfer," 
but I was anxious that you should have these little poems. 
They are written by a German clergyman. The poetry 
is very pretty and simple, and I like them for the cheer- 
ful view which they take of reUgion. I have also 
ventured to send you a little book of selections from 
different authors, principally for the sake of those which 
have been made from the works of four men whose 
writings I have often perused with almost unmixed 



io8 MORE POT-POURRI 

satisfaction. I mean Jeremy Taylor, South, Bacon, and 
Milton. I send them to you, not only as samples which 
will, I think, please you, but in the hope that they will 
induce you to look further into the works from which 
they are taken. I had inserted some loose pages con- 
taining parallel passages and observations upon the text, 
but think upon the whole it would be to expose you to 
observation were I to send the book with them in and 
anybody but yourself happened to look into it. I only 
send you with it some verses of Southey's which struck 
me as very pretty, and which I have but lately met with. 
You can take them out. Taylor is a writer of the greatest 
eloquence and the most exuberant imagination I am 
acquainted with in any language. He had at the same 
time an humble mind, and was thoroughly imbued with a 
true spirit of Christian charity. South is distinguished 
for y* vigour and nervous energy of his style and 
thoughts. He had a thoroughly strong mind — ^too con- 
fident, however, and uncompromising to admit of his being 
really tolerant of the opinions of others. His conception 
of the state of man before the Fall, though it savours 
of course of y' ideal, is a very remarkable performance. 
Bacon had a practical mind, and no man perhaps ever so 
thoroughly mastered the subject of human nature as he 
did. If you can get his Essays, which are sold almost 
everywhere, pray read them — or rather, I should say, 
study them, for they are models of conciseness. Every 
sentence admits of development. They force one to think 
for oneself, which is the best service an author can render 
one. Justice has not been done to Milton's prose works 
in this little book, but, as they are mostly confined to 
political subjects, they might not perhaps interest you so 
much. Milton's mind was not wholly free from bigotry. 
But I love him for his hatred of tyranny and persecu- 
tion under every shape, for his unquenchable ardour for 



NOVEMBER 109 

liberty, and his hearty and fearless advocacy of the en- 
lightenment of mankind. Among his poetical works do 
you know the " Comus " well? There are parts of it which, 
I think, he never surpassed. I am sure you must like 
it. His " Paradise Lost " is indeed a study — a noble and 
improving one for all who can comprehend his sublime 
conceptions and the beautiful and powerful language in 
which he has clothed them. But I must think he was 
unfortunate in his subject. A lover of pure religion can 
hardly fail to think that the effect of parts is to degrade 
and humanise the Divinity. I can hardly conceive that 
the 3'''^ Book, in which he propounds the mystery of 
the Eedemption and details its origin, should not be in 
some degree shocking to a true Christian. The poetry of 
it is certainly most sublime, but there is on the whole a 
familiarity in the scene described which makes me think 
it would have found a fitter place in the writings of a 
heathen. I had also got you one or two more books, 
but I am afraid to send them, lest you should think I 
presume too much upon y^ permission you gave me. 
One of them was an Essay upon the nature and true 
value of military glory, and another upon the education 
of the poor as the best kind of charity we can do them. 
Depend upon it, it is so ; and all indiscriminate relief, 
given as it generally is for the selfish purpose of gratify- 
ing our own benevolence, partakes not of the real nature 
of Charity, which regards the good of the object ; and 
while it tends to diminish their own exertions in the 
present, prevents them from acquiring those habits of 
providence and self-dependence which in the long run 
constitute their only chance of respectability and happi- 
ness. There is no fear the stream of charity will want 
channels in which to flow, and I also do not believe that 
its sources are the least likely to be dried up. There are 
more funds required for education and y* support of some 



no MORE POT-POURRI 

kinds of hospitals than will, I fear, ever be supplied. You 
would find Mrs. Marcet's " Conversations on Political 
Economy " very useful, and there are some good reasons 
given in the beginning why ladies should be acquainted 
with the principles of the science. Let me recommend 
to you, as connected with your German reading, Madame 
de Stael's work on Germany. I have derived great 
pleasure from reading it. And though she occasionally 
goes out of her depth, and' her facts are not always 
correct, there is a good deal still of profound reflection 
and much valuable information in the work. I wiU 
mention to you a few others of the books which I have 
most admired. I am not, however, a miscellaneous reader ; 
I wish I could be ; but I have not a retentive memory, 
and as reading is to me valuable only in proportion as 
I retain what I read, I confine my studies as much as 
possible to those works which I can bear to read over and 
over again. Of such character is Wordsworth's poetry, 
and I should be glad if no day elapsed without my read- 
ing some portion of it. If you have his works with you, pray 
read the " Euth," the " Laodamia," the " Ode to Duty," 
" Lines written near Tintern Abbey " (I know nothing 
more beautiful than this), the " Cumberland Beggar," and 
a little poem — I think he calls it the " Yew Tree " or the 
" Yew Tree Seat " (for I have not the book with me) — in 
which there are some lines beginning, " The man whose 
eye is ever on himself doth look on one the least of 
Nature's works," etc. I like Coleridge's poetry but less 
well. Of all his long pieces I like his translation of 
Schiller's Wallenstein the best. It is admirable as a poem , 
while it is perfect as a translation. His " Ancient Mariner " 
and his " Love " or " GeneviSve " are very beautiful. 
I hope you will be able to read my friend's play, which 
my sister told you of.' I longed to send it to you. It is 
* Philijo van Ar^elde. 



NOVEMBER iii 

a worls of genius, and at the same time of great labour. 
He is a man of humble birth, but of an exalted mind ; and 
that, I am sure, you will think better than being " some 
tenth transmitter of a foolish face " ! In religious works 
I have best liked Butler's " Analogy " and " Sermons," 
Taylor's and South's sermons, Paley's " Evidences," all 
Whateley's works — especially his " Eomish Errors " and 
the " Peculiarities of Christianity " — and Davison on pro- 
phecy. This is a work which will survive the present day. 
Its author is- just dead, prematurely. He was a man of 
great powers of mind, but his health prevented him 
from sustaining any great intellectual labour. Sumner's 
" Eecords of the Creation " is a very instructive work as 
well as a most interesting one. I should like to recommend 
to you also Southey's " Life of Wesley.'' It is not very 
easy to get it, but I am sure it would well repay you for 
reading. Among lighter books, I will mention Scott's 
" Lives of the Novelists.'' It is not only a very interesting 
book, but there is a great deal of sound criticism in it — 
particularly, for, instance, in his lives of Eichardson and 
Eielding^and it would be well if the generaUty of novel- 
readers had some fixed and firm certain principles of 
taste by which to judge of the merits of what- they read. 
I was much struck, I assure you, with your remarks upon 
the " Admiral's Daughter " to my sister. The criticism 
seemed to me as just as it was weU expressed. What I 
had objected ^o in the work was the intention of placing 
the man of intellect and of cultivation in unfavourable 
contrast: with the man of impulse and feeling. You will 
say that religion made the difference ; but I am not aware 
that anything which is good in the good man is supposed 
to arise from the presence of religion. But I will not 
write you a letter, though I feel as if I could go on for 
ever. -.No. I fear, for so long as you desire itj all direct 
communication must cease between us. I doubt not you 



112 MORE POT-POURRI 

are right. Heaven grant that it may be renewed at no 
distant time and under happy circumstances ! May God 
for ever bless and protect you 1 ' 

In 1835 they were married, and had eight short years 
of great happiness. This was constantly described to me 
in a way to make a deep impression on a child's mind, 
and to account for a sentimental vein in me that was 
perhaps beyond what was usual even in the days when a 
very different tone was prevalent among girls than at 
present. Though my recollection of my father was of 
the faintest, my hero-worship for him amounted almost 
to idolatry all through my chUdhood. I so venerated the 
few of his written sayings that my mother brought to my 
notice that I think they powerfully affected my character. 
I confess it gave me great pleasure when a few years ago 
I saw two references to him in a volume of Lady CarUsle's 
letters written from Paris in 1832. The allusion was in 
a letter dated ' Paris, September 1st, 1832,' and was as 
follows : ' Edward Villiers is here, only for one day. He 
is the image of George ' (his eldest brother), ' only hand- 
somer and graver. I think him uncommonly pleasing.' 
The other notice was on November 5th, when the old 
lady says : ' Edward Villiers is my love. He is dehght- 
ful, excellent, and interesting. A Villiers without any of 
the shades.' He died of consumption at Nice in October 
1843. In Charles Greville's ' Memoirs ' is the obituary 
notice which he wrote for the ' Times ' of November 7th. 
It has a certain Uterary interest, as being so much more 
personal in tone and more deUberately the act of a friend 
than is usual in notices of the same kind to-day : 

' Last night came intelUgence from Nice that Edward 
ViUiers was dead. He went there in a hopeless state, 
was worse after his arrival ; then an abscess broke in his 
lungs, which gave a momentary gleam of hope, but he 



NOVEMBER 113 

expired very soon after. I had a very great regard for 
him, and he deserved it. He was a man little known to 
the world in general — shy, reserved to strangers, cold 
and rather austere in his manners, and, being very short- 
sighted, made people think he meant to slight them when 
he had no such intention. He was not fitted to bustle 
into public notice, and such ambition as he had was not 
of the noisy and ostentatious kind. But no man was more 
beloved by his family and friends, and none could be more 
agreeable in any society when he was completely at his 
ease. He was most warm-hearted and affectionate, sincere, 
obliging, disinterested, unselfish, and of unscrupulous in- 
tegrity ; by which I mean integrity in the largest sense, 
not merely that which shrinks from doing a dishonourable 
or questionable action, but which habitually refers to 
conscientious principles in every transaction of life. He 
viewed things with the eye of a philosopher, and aimed 
at establishing a perfect consistency between his theory 
and his practice. He had a remarkably acute and 
searching intellect, with habits of patient investigation 
and mature deUberation ; his soul was animated by ardent 
aspirations after the improvement and the happiness of 
mankind, and he abhorred injustice and oppression, in all 
their shapes and disguises, with an honest intensity which 
produced something of a morbid sentiment in his mind 
and sometimes betrayed him into mistaken impressions 
and erroneous conclusions. 

' The expansive benevolence of his moral sentiments 
powerfully influenced his political opinions, and his deep 
sympathy with the poor not only rendered him inexorably 
severe to the vices of the rich, but made him regard with 
aversion and distrust the aristocratic elements of our 
institutions, and rendered him an ardent promoter of the 
most extensive schemes of progressive reform. But while 
he clung with inflexible constancy to his own opinions, 

I 



114 MORE POT-POURRI 

no man was more tolerant of the opinions of others. In 
conversation he was animated, brilliant, amusing, and 
profound, bringing sincerity, single-mindedness, and 
knowledge to bear upon every discussion. His Ufe, though 
short, uneventful, and retired, was passed in the contem- 
plation of subjects of interest, and worthiest to occupy the 
thoughts of a good and wise man ; and the few intimacies 
he cultivated were with congenial minds, estimable for 
their moral excellence or distinguished by their intel- 
lectual quahties and attainments. The world at large 
will never know what virtues and talents have been 
prematurely snatched away from it, for those only who 
have seen Edward Villiers in the unrestraint and un- 
reserve of domestic familiarity can appreciate the charm 
of his disposition and the vigour of his understanding. 
No stranger would have divined that under that cold and 
grave exterior there lay concealed an exquisite sensibility, 
the most ardent affections, and a mind fertile in every 
good and noble quality. To the relations and friends who 
were devotedly attached to him the loss is irreparable 
and will long be deplored, and the only consolation which 
offers itself is to be found in the circumstances of his end. 
He was surrounded by kind and affectionate friends, and 
expired in the arms of his wife, whose conduct he himself 
described to have been that of a heroine as well as an 
angel. He was in possession of all his faculties, and was 
free from bodily pain. He died with the cheerfulness of 
a philosopher and the resignation of a Christian — happy, 
devout and hopeful, and joyfully contemplating death in 
an assured faith of a resurrection from the dead.' 

Only those who have been brought up by a vridowed 
mother whose whole life had been snapped asunder by 
such a loss can quite realise how very peculiar and un- 
like other homes it is. 

How rare it is to bo perfectly natural under a great 



NOVEMBER 115 

grief ! There is so often an element of self-consciousness, 
an honest wondering how our attitude will strike others. 
If we use self-control and try to let life flow in its usual 
currents, we fear to be thought indifferent, cold, and 
hard. If once the smallest display of grief becomes in 
any way a habit, it is difficult to resume again that 
perfect sincerity of manner which, after all, is the only 
outward expression of true feeling. A short time ago 
in 'The Weekly Sun,' in one of Mr. T. P. 0*Connor's 
wonderful reviews of a Life of Tolstoi, he quotes a passage 
which is a very vivid picture of self-consciousness in 
grief. ' Tolstoi describes his visit to his mother's death- 
chamber : "I could not believe it was her face." How 
this comes home to us all ! The change made by death, 
the effort of the brain to recognise that what we see before 
us is the loved object whom, living, we should instantly 
have recognised among a milUon. Tolstoi continues : " I 
looked fixedly at it, and by degrees began to recognise in 
it the dear familiar features. I shuddered when I did so, 
and knew that this something was my mother. But 
why had her closed eyes sunk thus into her head? 
"Why was she so dreadfully pale ? and why was a dark 
spot visible through her transparent skin on one of her 
cheeks ? Why was the expression of her face so stern 
and so cold ? Why were her lips so bloodless and their 
lines so fair, so grand? Why did they express such un- 
earthly calmness that a cold shiver passed through me as 
I looked at them ? . . . Both before the funeral and after 
I did not cease to weep and feel melancholy. But I do 
not like to remember it, because a feeling of self-love 
mingled with aU its manifestations ; either a desire to 
show that I was more afflicted than the rest, or thoughts 
about the impression I produced upon others; or idle 
curiosity which made me examine Mimi's cap or the 
faces of those around me." ' The reviewer adds : ' Now 

l2 



n6 MORE POT-POURRI 

I call this passage morbid.' It may be, but the descrip- 
tion is extraordinarily true to many under the influence 
of grief, though they fail to analyse or understand their 
own mental state. 

We all say, we all think, we aU know, that ' in the 
midst of Ufe we are in death ' ; and yet when the blow 
falls with appalling startlingness on someone who is near 
to us, how we all must feel — with a piercing, heartrending 
reahty — ' If I had known ' ! 

If I had known, loyal heart, 

When hand to hand we said ' Farewell,' 

How for all times our paths would part, 
What shadow o'er our friendship fell, 

I should have clasped your hand so close 
In the warm pressure of my own 

That memory still might keep its grasp — 
It I had known. 

If I had known when far and wide 
We loitered through the summer land 

What presence wandered by our side, 
And o'er you stretched its awful hand, 

I should have hushed my careless speech 
To listen well to every tone 

That from your lips fell low and sweet — 
If I had known. 

If I had known when your kind eyes 
Met mine in parting, true and sad — 

Eyes gravely tender, gently wise, 
And earnest rather more than glad — 

How soon the lids would lie above. 
As cold and white as sculptured stone, 

I should have treasured every glance — 
If I had known. 

If I had known that, until Death 

Shall with his fingers touch my brow, 

And still the quickening of the breath 
That stirs with life's full meaning now, 



NOVEMBER 117 

So long my feet must tread the way 

Of our accustomed paths alone, 
I should have prized your presence more — 
If I had known. 

Christian Eeed (' Weekly Sun,' 189 ). 

' Oil ! the anguish of that thought — that we can never 
atone to our dead for the stinted affection we gave them, 
for the light answers we returned to their plaints or their 
pleadings, for the little reverence we showed to that 
sacred human soul that lived so close to us and was the 
divinest thing God had given us to know.' 



ii8 MORE POT-POURRI 



DEGEMBEB 

Lonely evenings and more papers — Figs from France — Hornbeams 
and Weeping Hornbeams — Wire netting round small fruit-trees — 
Damsons — Eoman Hyacinths andPaper-whiteNaroissus — Effect of 
coloured glass on plants— Use of corrugated iron — Lord Lyndoch — 
Cultivation of Mistletoe — A list of plants — Anniversary present- 
giving — Christmas decorations — Acetylene gas — The old learning 
to live alone — Eeceipts. 

December 1st. — I have been turning out more old 
letters, and among other papers with other memories and 
connected with other times I found this fragment of what 
was evidently intended to be an autobiography of a long 
Ufe. As a sketch of a little boy's hfe nearly seventy years 
ago,' with its allusions to foreign lands and customs now 
nearly extinct, I think it is not entirely devoid of interest. 
I omit an account given of the vsrriter's family, the story 
of his father and mother, and his own birth in Switzerland : 

' My early youth was passed in many different places, 
but I have not much recollection of them. One season 
we had a house in Hereford Street, Park Lane — a site now 
occupied by Hereford Gardens. I remember cows being 
milked for purchasers in Hyde Park, and Blacks playing 
the cymbals in the bands of the Guards. 

' When very young we went to Scotland, where my 
father, who was very devoted to every sort of sport, 
enjoyed his life immensely. Those days were before the 
railway period, and an EngUshman in Scotland was a 
comparatively rare person. 

' Whilst I was in Edinburgh I went with my brother 



DECEMBER 119 

Augustus to a large day-school called the Circus Place 
School. It was attended by boys and girls of every 
class that could afford to pay the fees, and the little 
Scotch roughs used rather to bully us two English lads. 
My dear mother, in her aniiety that we should not catch 
cold by walking to school in the snow and sitting with 
wet feet, used to send us there on bad days — of which 
there were a good many in that abominable climate — in 
a Sedan chair, the customary conveyance at that time in 
Edinburgh. I shall never forget the jeers with which we 
were greeted when, on arriving at the school, the chair 
was opened by lifting up the top to release the door, and 
we were shot out spick and span among the crowd of little 
hardy brats who had trudged with their satchels on their 
backs through the snow-slush which our mother so 
dreaded for us ! 

'At this time I remember "Pickwick" coming out 
in monthly numbers and my father's anxiety for their 
appearance as the month's end approached. 

•Another subject of recollection is the efforts that were 
made to get franks for letters from Members of Parlia- 
ment. The penny postage had not then been invented, 
and my impression is that a letter to London from 
Scotland was charged a shilling. I do not know how 
many franks a day a Member had, but I think there was 
a Umit. If he did not require his full allowance for his 
own correspondence he used to oblige his friends by sign- 
ing his name on an envelope, as a Secretary of State does 
now, and handing it to his appUoant. It did not seem to 
occur to anyone that the privilege was given to facihtate 
a Member's official correspondence, and that handing it on 
to others was an abuse of it. 

' Whilst in Paris Augustus and I attended a little day- 
school of French boys. It was in a small street some- 
where near the Eue St. HonorS. The great pumpkins 



120 MORE POT-POURRI 

then so much used in the poorer parts of Paris, exhibited 
outside the little shops partly out and showing their 
yellow flesh, are among the recollections of those daily 
walks to and from school. 

' We used to have our midday meal at the school, and 
I have grim memories of the Friday maigre dinner, with 
a sour honna femrne soup which did not please our 
British beef- and mutton-trained appetites. But what 
do I not owe to the admirable woman who assisted her 
husband in his educational duties, and who stood over 
Augustus and myself while with rigorous efforts she 
endeavoured to convert our pronunciation of the French 
word for bread from " pang " to " pain " ! How persistent 
she was, that dear conscientious Frenchwoman ! How 
often, with repeated and exaggerated aspiration of the 
final " n," did she drive into our unaccustomed ears the 
proper sound of that much (by Britons) murdered mono- 
syllable ! And she succeeded at last, and broke the neck 
of our initial difficulties in French pronunciation. I 
think I was nine years old at this time ; but the gloomy 
little garden, with a horizontal gymnastic pole, and the 
parallel bars under the one Lime-tree, the whole screened 
off from the next-door estate by an ivy-covered trellis, are 
present to my sight. 

' I have no recollection whatever of the journey from 
Paris to Tours. We children, vrith the tutor and servants, 
must have made it by diligence, and perhaps my remem- 
brance of it has been obscured by the more vivid 
impressions of the joys or the sufferings — the difference 
depending upon which direction I was going in — of the 
same journey several times performed on my way to and 
from a school at Paris which I vdll refer to later on. 

' The house my father had taken at Tours was called 
the " Grands Capuoins" — I believe, from being a house of 
retreat or " pleasaunce " house belonging to a Capuoin 



DECEMBER 121 

monastery. And surely no monks, skilful as they were 
in the selection of localities, ever chose a more charming 
spot for a small villa-like residence where they could 
retire from the austerities and the duties of the convent. 

' Situated on the heights which rise on the right bank 
of the Loire at this point in its course, and immediately 
over the little faubourg of Tours, St. Symphorien, it 
commanded an extensive and beautiful view of the river, 
the town of Tours, and the rich plains to the south 
watered by the rivers Cher and Indre. The grounds, I 
fancy, were in extent about five acres, but there were 
vineyards and other appurtenances belonging to the 
estate, though not comprised in the lease, which made an 
almost boundless playground for children, and were so 
varied by terraces, caves in the side of the hill, and other 
strange incidents of site, that a great excitement was lent 
to the games of mimic wars and surprises at which we 
were constantly playing. There was a large tank under 
one side of the old house — you descended to it by steps 
from the garden — and armed with candles, for it was 
pitch-dark, and provided with planks, we used to embark 
on its water and navigate the mysterious cavern — 
an amusement that led to wet feet and friction with 
Mrs. Hunt, the old nurse, in consequence. 

' The front part of the house was modern ; it stood on a 
platform raised above the large formal garden before it. 
The boundary of the garden was a terrace-walk looking 
dowa on the river and the town. There were no 
steamers, or very few, in those days, and of course no 
railway; and the long strings of flat-bottomed barges with 
their great white square sails that carried the merchandise 
from Nantes up the river when the wind served made a 
striking feature in the scene. 

' There was a wine-press attached to the rambling old 
house, and the proprietor made his wine from the virie^ 



122 MORE POT-POURRI 

yards every autumn. There was also an old billiard- 
table, and we used to do a little wine-pressing of our own 
by putting the bunches of fat black grapes into the net 
pockets and squeezing the juice into a jug. The fruit of 
all sorts was magnificent; the greengages, the muscat 
grapes on the face of the ohS, the gooseberries, straw- 
berries, currants, and in autumn the walnuts, were 
splendid objects for youthful greediness, and are matters 
of hfe-long remembrance to me. 

' The grounds and gardens were under the care of a 
family who resided in a cottage and bore the name of 
Difete. There were the Pfere and Mfere Diete, good old 
sabot-wearing peasants who worked in and overlooked 
the vineyards, while their son Martin attended to the 
garden. We had a coachman called Joseph, an old 
cavalry soldier who interested us children vrith his tales 
of the siege of Antwerp by the French in 1832, and 
particularly by his account of a cavalry charge in which 
he took part. The noise of its galloping, he used to 
say, was like the tonnerre de Dieu. His contempt of 
the infantry soldier, whom he spoke of as le piou-pvm, 
was characteristic of the attitude of the dragoon towards 
the foot-soldier in all armies. 

' Augustus and I learnt to swim in the Loire. We used 
to go out in a punt with a maitre de natation, who hooked 
us on to a pole by a belt round our waists, and so supported 
us in the water till we could keep ourselves afloat. We 
also amused ourselves by saihng a toy-boat in the lagunes 
and back-waters of the river. One day while so occupied 
a French lad of about fifteen or sixteen began throwing 
stones at our cutter. Augustus, who was taller than I 
and much more daring, rushed at the Frenchman, and 
after a struggle with him was thrown on the sand. The 
French lad, who had the best of the wrestle, improved his 
advantage by taking up handfuls of sand and rubbing it 



DECEMBER 123 

into Augustus's eyes while lie was lying helpless under- 
neath. A stout stick the French boy had brought with 
him had fallen in the struggle under Augustus. I, see- 
ing the position, dragged the stick out from under the 
combatants, and began belabouring the Frenchman with 
all my might. This soon converted our defeat into a 
victory, and the enemy, extricating himself from his 
antagonist, fled from the field. The lad's father then 
appeared on the scene and relieved himself by a torrent 
of abuse. In those days the memories of the old 
struggles between England and France were still alive 
among the populace, and we were constantly followed by 
gamias shouting after us " Goddam Anglish " and other 
contemptuous expressions. 

'During our residence in Touraine Augustus and I 
went with Mr. Nicholl, the tutor, to visit the old castles 
of the neighbourhood, and I remember going to Loches, 
Chinon, Chenonceaux, and Chambord, travelling in the 
little country diligences. 

' In the winter evenings at the " Capuoins " my father 
used to read Walter Scott's novels to us, and I recall how 
we looked forward with excitement to the time of resump- 
tion of the stories. " Quentin Durward " was especially 
interesting to us, as the scene of a great part of his ad- 
ventures was within sight of our own house, Plessis les 
Tours being just across the river. 

' On the whole my life at Tours was the part of my 
youth to which I look back with the greatest pleasure. It 
has tinged my whole existence with a great love of France 
and until the experience of late years showed me the 
childish petulance in political affairs of her people I had 
a sincere admiration and affection for them. 

' The time came at last when I had to go to school. I 
was eleven years old when my father took me to Paris, to 
a school for English boys kept by a M. Eosin, a Swiss. It 



124 MORE POT-POURRI 

was established in a fair-sized house with grounds round 
it, something hke a superior vUla at Putney, near the Arc 
de Triomphe and to the north of the Champs Elys6es. 
It was distinguished as No. 15 Avenue Chateaubriand, 
Quartier Beau j on, and has long since disappeared. The 
whole region has become the site of the fine hdtels of the 
magnates of finance who have since the 'Forties peopled 
the neighbourhood of the Champs Blys^es. When I was 
at school, the Bois de Boulogne was a scrubby waste. 
The only road of importance through it from the Arc de 
Triomphe was that to Neuilly. 

' A few sorry hacks and donkeys stood saddled for hire 
at the fringe of the Bois. There were no houses of any 
size farther up the Champs Elys6es than the Eond Point, 
and near the Arc was a waste occupied by the earth 
thrown out of the road in the levelling operations of its 
construction. I remember it well, for it was on the heaps 
resulting from the excavations that we stood one bitterly 
cold day in the winter of 1840 from 8 a.m. to 1.30 to see 
the funeral of the great Napoleon pass through the arch 
on its way down the Champs Elys6es to his burial-place 
in the crypt of the Invalides. 

' Augustus followed me to the same school. I do not 
think I can have been there more than eighteen months, 
but it was long enough to have the recollection of the 
journeyings in the diligence to and from Tours at Christ- 
mas and at midsummer. Very happy migrations they 
were on the way home, and very much the reverse on the 
return to school. 

' In the winter my father and mother used to come to 
Paris, and take an apartment for a time in the Hotel 
Mirabeau in the Eue de la Paix. And every Saturday 
while they were there we passed the afternoon and the 
following day with them, sleeping in the hotel. There 
was not much of the present luxury of washing at schools 



DECEMBER 125 

in those days. At Eosin's once in three weeks we were 
marched off to some bains where we could enjoy a 
good wash in a warm bath and a surreptitious cake of 
chocolate, provided by the garqon de bains for a con- 
sideration. So there were great washings on the Saturday 
nights at the hotel, superintended by our dear mother, after 
our return from the " Pran9ais," where we were always 
taken on the Saturday evenings for a lesson in Erench. 
Eachel was just coming into celebrity, and we sat through 
the long and, to us, unexciting Eacine plays in which she 
appeared, rather sleepy after a dinner at a restaurant and 
an afternoon of exceptional interest, driving about the 
streets. Those strictly classical plays, in which the three 
unities are rigidly observed, were very tedious to us boys, 
and the prospect of an ice at Tortoni's on the way home 
was more engrossing, I am ashamed to own, than the 
passionate scenes rendered by the great actress. 

' I remember while at Eosin's going sometimes to spend 
the afternoon and dine at Lord Elgin's, the hero of the 
Elgin Marbles acquisition. He seemed to me then a very 
old man, and always sitting at a writing-table in a corner 
of a large room in their house in the Faubourg St. 
Germain, while his daughters performed the up-hill duty 
of trying to amuse me, a stupid, shy boy of eleven. I 
was also taken out by other friends of my father's, and 
can recall the intense sleepiness following an unwonted 
dinner at seven o'clock, before the time came for being 
packed off in a fiacre to the Avenue Chateaubriand. 

' But the time came when Augustus and I, both des- 
tined for the army, had to prepare, he for Woolwich and I 
for Sandhurst. It was decided that we should go to a 
great preparatory school of those days for the military 
colleges of the Queen's and Bast India Company's ser- 
vices, kept by Messrs. Stoton and Mayor at "Wimbledon. 
The school was a large one, and would be thought a 



126 MORE POT-POURRI 

rough one now. The only washing-place was a room on 
the ground floor, with sinks and leaden basins in them, to 
which we came down in the morning to wash our hands 
and faces. There was very httle taught but mathematics 
for the army boys, and classics for those destined for 
Haileybury, the East India Company's college for the 
Indian Civil Service. Copley Eielding taught some boys 
drawing and water-colour painting. There was also a 
Erench class, presided over by a poor little old French- 
man, M. Dell. I never in my life met a being to whom 
the term " master " was less applicable. The French 
master at the schools of sixty years ago was not a happy 
person. He was despised of aU men and boys, and his 
position was one of such inferiority that no man of any 
power or spirit was hkely to fill it. Stoton allowed no 
prize for the French class, and it has been one of the 
most touching incidents of my life that the poor old 
Frenchman gave me a little prize which he paid for 
himself. It was a small edition of Florian's fables. I had 
it with me for years, but where it has gone to now I know 
not. It is perhaps buried somewhere among the increased 
belongings that inheritances and a settled life have accumu- 
lated about me ; I wish I could find it again. Augustus 
and I were probably the only boys that had been in 
France, and certainly the only ones with any pretension 
to speaking French, and I think the good Uttle man had 
a predilection for us among the crowd of sneering John 
Bulls — hating him, his language, and his country — that it 
was his hard fate to teach. It would be a great delight 
if I could perform an anachronistic miracle and find him 
as he then was, to give him a hundred times the value of 
his poor httle book. 

' From Stotou's, at the age of fourteen, I went to the 
Eoyal Mihtary College at Sandhurst, and Augustus must 
have gone to the Military Academy at Woolwich about a 



DECEMBER 127 

year later. My father took me to the college, and we 
slept the night before the entrance examination at the 
" Tumble-down Dick " inn at Parnborough, which was 
then the nearest station. The examination was a farce, 
of course. I suppose they ascertained that one could 
read and write, and the doctor satisfied himself you 
were not deformed, but I don't believe it Went much 
farther.' (Here the fragment ends.) 

December 5th. — The weather is wonderfuUy mild. I 
have a bunch of Tea-roses flowering in the room that 
were picked out of doors yesterday. Have seasons 
changed, or have the roses? I used to think Owen 
Meredith's allusion to the rose of October so true : 

If Sorrow have taught me anything, 

She hath taught me to weep for you ; 
And if Falsehood have left me a tear to shed 

For Truth, these tears are true. 

If the one star left by the morning 

Be dear to the dying night, 
If the late lone rose of October 

Be sweetest to scent and sight, 

If the last of the leaves in December ' 

Be dear to the desolate tree, 
Eemember, belov'd — remember. 

How dear is your beauty to me ! 

December 10th. — I have again been away. At last it is 
quite winter, and everything is at rest outside. But if all 
the outdoor Chrysanthemums, or even the hardiest in- 
door ones, had been moved in October or November into 
sheltered places under shrubs and trees, or against walls, 
there has been up to now no frost to hiurt them in such 
situations. Some that I moved twice this autumn are 
not feeling it at aU. 

If Camellias are grown in pots they make far more 
buds than they can possibly carry, and severe disbudding 
is most useful. 



128 MORE POT-POURRI 

Outdoor Heaths seem to do better for cutting back 
after flowering. 

Just lately I have received from the South of Prance 
a box of dried figs, not pressed at all, but just dried in the 
sun, as the peasants eat them. They are delicious, I 
think; far better than the usual dried figs we get in 
England, the inside seeds of which as a rule are much 
too hard. 

December 11th. — The Hornbeam — one of the old in- 
digenous trees of England, and among the very best 
for firewood — is, judging from what I notice, very little 
planted now and rarely named in catalogues. And yet 
for many purposes it is useful and beautiful. It stands 
the knife to any extent, and makes most satisfactory 
hedges. 

In my last book I spoke of Pergolas — those covered 
walks made with poles, or columns of bricks or stone, and 
overgrown with creepers of all kinds. Now I would speak of 
the ' Charmilles ' — walks either of turf or gravel covered over 
■with arches of growing trees, vnth no supports or wires 
or wood, merely the interlacing of the boughs tUl they 
grow thick overhead with continual pruning. There is a 
little short walk of this kind at Hampton Court — I forget 
how it is made (I mean, with what trees it is planted) — 
and in the Boboli Gardens at Elorence there are end- 
less varieties, as everyone knows, of these covered walks. 
They would be very beautiful on the north or east side of 
many a sunny lawn ; and if a garden were too small for 
such a walk, there might still be room for an occasional 
self-forming arch, which adds mystery and charm to any 
garden. It could be made either with Hornbeam, Beech, 
or (perhaps best of all in light soil) Mountain Ash, which 
flowers — and berries too — all the better for judicious 
pruning, and which could make a support as well for Honey- 
suckle or a climbing Eose. This kind of planting to gain 



DECEMBER 129 

deep shade can be done over a seat, and would not take 
very long to grow into a natural arbour. A Weeping 
Hornbeam — which, I suppose, must be a modern garden- 
ing invention, as it is not mentioned in Loudon's very 
comprehensive ' Arboretum et Fruticetum ' — is also a 
splendid tree for a sunny lawn ; and in the plant the long, 
loose, pendulous catkins are very attractive. The seeds 
ripen in October, and the bunches or cones which 
contain them should be gathered by hand when the 
nuts are ready to drop out. The nuts separate easily 
from the envelope, and if sown at once will come up the 
following spring. All this sounds rather slow, for in these 
days people buy aU they want and never wait. Messrs. 
Veitch sell both kinds of Hornbeams, and even tall, well- 
grown plants of the Weeping kind are not expensive. 

' Bosquets, or groves, are so called from bouquet, a 
nosegay; and I believe gardeners never meant any- 
thing else by giving this term to this compartment, 
which is a sort of green knot, formed by branches and 
leaves of trees that compose it placed in rows opposite 
each other.' The author of ' The Eetired Gardener ' then 
adds : ' I have named a great many compartments in 
which Hornbeam is made use of ; yet methinks none of 
them look so beautiful and magnificent as a gallery with 
arches.' 

December IBth. — We have just been digging up and 
preparing a good-sized oblong piece of ground in the best 
and sunniest part of the kitchen garden, and moving into 
it gooseberries and currants — red, white, and black. 
Bound this I am going to place, after considerable delibera- 
tion and doubt, a high fine-wire fencing with an open- 
ing on one side instead of a gate — which reduces the 
expense — and the opening can be covered when necessary 
with a net. The reason for not wiring over the top, 
besides the expense, is that it causes a rather injurious 

K 



I30 MORE POT-POURRI 

drip in rainy weathef and breaks down under the snow. I 
am also assured by good gardeners that it is unnecessary, 
and that the ■wire netting round the sides is a most 
effectual protection to the bushes, as small birds do 
not fly downwards into a wire-netted enclosure. My 
gardener is very sceptical on this point, and says he 
thinks our birds are too clever to be kept out by such 
half-measures. I think we have an undue share of birds, 
as on one side of the kitchen garden there is a small 
copse belonging to a neighbour which has been entirely 
neglected for years, and presents the appearance of what 
one would imagine a virgin forest might be. This 
affords the most extraordinary protection for birds, and 
bullfinches and greenfinches abound. They not only 
do harm to the fruit when it is ripe, but they strip the 
trees of their buds in dry weather in early spring. If this 
new wire netting answers, I am told we ought to have 
three times the fruit for a less quantity of bushes. I 
shall grow white currants on the netting, with battens 
or sticks fastened to it as a protection from the heat of 
the zinc wire, which is fatal to everything. The trees 
are now all whitened with a preparation of lime which is 
distasteful to the birds and insects. After all this I shall 
indeed be disappointed if my crop of small fruit is not 
larger this year. However, a late frost may stiU defeat 
us altogether. 

Mr. Wright in his book 'Profitable Fruit-growing' 
(171 Meet Street, London) has a sentence on the pur- 
chasing of fruit-trees which is so good I must copy it : 
' Krst look to the character and position of the vendors, 
and deal with those who have reputations to maintain. 
They cannot afford to sell inferior trees or, what is of vital 
importance, distribute varieties under wrong names. It 
is a very serious matter to grow fruit-trees for some 
years, then when they bear find they are not the sorts 



DECEMBER 131 

ordered, but inferior. Time thus lost cannot be re- 
gained. Order early in October, and the sooner the 
trees arrive and are planted after the leaves fall the 
better they will grow.' He goes on to say, what is 
equally true, that the best trees are spoilt by bad planting, 
and it is deplorable to see how roughly the work is 
often done through lack of knowledge. Every kind of 
instruction is clearly given by Mr. Wright in this excellent, 
inexpensive little book, and if read carefully and followed 
things must go right. I have fallen this year into the 
so common fault of ordering the little I meant to have 
too late ; but as they are only a few hardy Damson-trees 
I hope they will forgive me and do well all the same. 
Damsons are certainly not cultivated enough, and yet, 
after Morella Cherries, they make the best of jams, and 
no fruit-tree gives such big crops for so little outlay. 
The trees enjoy full exposure, and need hardly any atten- 
tion, but it is well to remember to stake them securely to 
prevent strong winds blovnng them about and straining 
the roots. Our only trouble is the birds, who eat out the 
buds before they even blossom. Some buds we could spare, 
but that is not Mr. Bully's way ; if he begins on a tree 
he completely clears it, as the missel-thrushes do the 
Eowan berries of summer. Last year they fixed on a 
Pear-tree that was covered rather early with buds, and 
in one week every trace and promise of blossom was 
gone. 

December lith. — I have a large field in which we have 
generally grown the coarser kind of vegetables — Potatoes, 
Cabbages, Jerusalem Artichokes, etc., and such things 
that do best in a very sunny open place. Finding that 
now, as I do not go to London, I do not require such a 
large supply of vegetables, I am going to sow and 
grass over half the field. It is between this and the. 
vegetable part that I have been planting the row of 



132 MORE POT-POURRI 

Damson-trees — half common and half cluster, by way of 
experiment. The BuUaoe, a true cottager's fruit, is a 
variety of the Damson, and not to be lightly regarded for 
both preserving and pies. It ripens soon after other 
Damsons, and so a succession is made. 

December 15th. — I am told some people have tried 
and approved of my suggestion of arranging greenhouse 
Chrysanthemums in groups of colour instead of dotting 
them about all mixed, one injuring the effect of the 
other. But I have not yet had the pleasm-e of seeing a 
large greenhouse so arranged, and I have not room for 
a great number myself. One of the very best is Abraham 
Lincoln, with its bushy habit, its grand bluish leaves, and 
its strong yeUow flowers, which remain a good yellow at 
night. A charming small but most decorative Chrys- 
anthemum is called ' Mrs. Carter.' It is pale yellow, white 
at night, and its growth and appearance are just like those 
of a Sweet Sultan. 

I saw the other day a httle Geranium {Pelargonium), 
called ' New Life,' that was new to me ; the petals were 
white and red mixed. Growing on the plant, it was 
not especially pretty ; but picked and mixed with some 
light green it had quite an uncommon appearance. I 
thought on first seeing it that it was a double Bouvardia. 
' Mrs. Leopold Eothschild ' is a most beautiful pink 
Carnation. 

Just now I have several pots in full flower of an 
orchid that never fails year after year, Lygopetalum 
mackayi. It does not require much heat, and lasts a long 
time both on the plant or in water. It throws up long 
flowering stems, has a most delicious perfume, is quiet in 
colour — yellowish-green and brownish-purple — and very 
refined in shape. I find it a most useful plant for the 
time of year, and we have many more pots than we had, 
so it is not very difficult to increase. 



DECEMBER 133 

In the corner of the greenhouse there is a good group 
of Poinsettia pulcherrima. Some people say they do not 
like these rather curious plants. They are useless for 
putting into water, but I think they look very bright and 
cheerful on these dark days. They do best if grown every 
year from cuttings. 

December 19th. — We have been more successful this 
year with the forcing of bulbs — Eoman Hyacinths and 
Paper-white Narcissus — than ever before, and I think it 
is a good deal owing to having carefully obeyed the 
instructions given in a little pamphlet, ' How I came to 
grow Bulbs,' which I have mentioned before. Mr. Eobert 
Sydenham is as instructive about pot-culture as he is 
about outdoor culture. He gives exactly the information 
required; and if this is carefully read there can be no 
confusion as regards the different treatment required by 
Narcissi, Tulips, and Hyacinths. A great many nursery- 
men profess to sell the Chinese Lily, really a Tazetta 
Narcissus with a yellow centre, which grows with extreme 
rapidity in bowls of water ; but instead of the true thing 
they often send out the Paper-white Narcissus. 

Late though it is, I have been moving pieces of 
Xerria ja/ponica and planting them against the bare stems 
of moderate-sized trees. They do admirably, and look so 
gay and bright in spring. They can be tied to the trunk 
for support, and the branches of the tree above protect 
them from spring frosts. They are most amiable plants, 
and in no way resent being moved about. The single and 
variegated Kerrias are not such strong growers as the 
double. If the latter get to look untidy they can be 
removed after flowering. 

I saw a curious account in a newspaper lately about 
the colour of glass greatly affecting the growth of plants. 
The discoverer of this theory is Camille Flammarion, the 
Erench astronomer. He has found that plants grown in 



134 MORE POT-POURRI 

a red hot-house become in a given time four times as 
big as those exposed to ordinary sunlight. The poorest 
development, practically amounting to failure, was under 
blue glass; and lettuces grovm under green glass did 
badly. It would be interesting to try experiments. I 
wonder if it would answer to colour red the stuff sold 
for painting the glass of greenhouses as a shade in 
summer ? 

We have done a great deal of pruning this year of our 
old Apple-trees, sawing out large branches in the middle to 
let in air. The trees have been shortened back so much 
that they bear far too many apples, and none come to any 
size. 

December 18th. — We have never been very successful 
here with the grovring of Mushrooms. We have no Mush- 
room house, and have to try what can be done in various 
sheds and outhouses. I am told the most essential 
point to remember is that the horses must have no 
green food or carrots during the time that the droppings 
are being collected. My own belief is that our beds 
have been kept too dry, and that this is the reason of our 
failure, in spite of making up the beds with the greatest care 
according to the directions in the excellent little books 
which are sold everywhere, and which always represent 
mushroom culture as the easiest thing in the world. Also 
it may be that when the beds were watered it was not 
with rain-water. Our soil is so sandy that even when 
mixed with anything that is put to it, it dries more easily 
than any ordinary garden soil. This winter my gardener has 
tried, with marked and satisfactory success, a bed under 
the greenhouse stage. It is made up in the ordinary way, 
and darkened and saved from the drip of the plants above 
by a sheet or two of that invaluable corrugated iron which 
I mentioned before, and which I find more and more 
useful for protection at night, protection for pot-plants 



DECEMBER 135 

in spring, keeping the wet out of sunk pits, shading 
summer cuttings effeotualiy, and so on. It also makes 
an excellent though ugly paling instead of a wall. Even 
Peach-trees will grow well against it if the plants are tied 
to pieces of batten or sticks — some stuck into the ground 
and the branches tied horizontally from stick to stick, and 
some put across the zinc — as then the plant, be it Peach 
or Vine, enjoys the heat radiated from the zinc, which yet 
cannot burn or injuriously dry the bark, in summer. In 
winter it is still more important that air should be between 
the plant and the zinc, which gets extremely cold in frosty 
weather. This, of course, applies equally to covering zinc 
houses or sheds with creepers. 

This is a long digression from the Mushroom bed. 
We have already had several excellent and useful dishes 
off it from this the first experiment. Our outer cellar is 
too cold here to grow Mushrooms in winter, though 
it does well to grow the common Chicory for the Ba/rhe- 
de-Capiicin salad, and also protects from early autumn 
frosts the Broad-leaved Batavian Endive, which does so 
infinitely better here than the Cm-led Endive. We grow 
this in large quantities. It makes by far the best late 
autumn salad, and is also quite excellent stewed. (See 
' Dainty Dishes.') 

We have not yet succeeded here with the vegetable 
now so much sold in London in the early spring, viz. 
Witloof or Large Brussels Chicory, but I mean to try this 
next year. 

I went to lunch to-day with a neighbour whose house 
is fuU of things recalling memories which belong to other 
days. As we sat at luncheon I began to gaze, as I in- 
variably do, at whatever hangs on the walls, and I am 
always thankful when I have not to look at photographs. 
I have plenty of these nayself, but they are the least 
decorative of furnishing pictures. On the wall opposite 



136 MORE POT-POURRI 

to me was rather an uncommon print of the Duke of 
Wellington, looking more than usually martial and 
stand-upright, and with an extra severe thundercloud 
behind him. It was from a picture by Lawrence, I expect, 
and a fine thing in its way. As a pendant to this was 
another print of a soldier. I turned to my hostess 
and, pointing to it, said: 'Who is that?' My friend 
answered with rather a marked tone : ' Why, that is Lord 
Lyndoch,' as if most certainly I ought to have knovm. 
Now, frankly, I had never heard of Lord Lyndoch, so 
I said rather humbly and inquiringly: 'Peninsula, I 
suppose ? But I am very badly read ; who was he ? ' And 
then she told me : ' Why, the Grahame who went to the 
wars after his wife's death, as you describe in your book 
in speaking of young Mrs. Grahame's picture in the 
Edinburgh Gallery.' She added : ' He was on Sir John 
Moore's staff and standing close by his horse when he 
was wounded at Corunna, and Sir John Moore was 
carried into Mr. Grahame's tent or hut, where he shortly 
died, and the poor young man was so utterly exhausted 
he lay on the floor by his dead friend and slept.' She 
told me that Lord Lyndoch was a known feature in 
society and a visitor in country houses in her youth, and 
she remembered him well at her grandmother's house 
in Hertfordshire. 

December l^th. — The weather has been so astonishing 
the last few days one cannot realise it is the week, not of 
the shortest days, but of the shortest afternoons of the 
whole year. This sentence brought about a fearful cool- 
ness between me and my dear secretary, who asked for 
an explanation of the statement, and, when I tried to give 
it, failed to understand. We agreed to refer the matter 
to an authority that we both believed in. The next 
day brought the following reply : ' The explanation you 
require is,|^I think, hardly suited to " Pot-Pourri." I should 



DECEMBER 137 

put it somehow thus : " that week in which the almanack 
tells us the days are growing shorter, though the sun sets 
at a later hour." Of course the aitemoon does not grow 
longer. Noon is the moment at which the sun crosses the 
meridian, audit then attains its highest point for the day ; 
and of course if it rises later, it also sets earlier. The 
apparent anomaly occurs thus — the solar day, which is 
measured from the time the sun crosses the meridian on 
one day to the time it does ditto on the next, is not of 
uniform length. The reasons — which you need not read — 
are : (1) The path of the sun does not lie in the equator, 
but in the ecliptic ; (2) owing to the earth's orbit not being 
circular, its motion in the ecliptic is not uniform, Now it 
would manifestly be very uncomfortable to have days of 
varying length, therefore an imaginary sun has been in- 
vented which is supposed to behave in a decent and 
orderly fashion ; the time by him is called " mean time," 
and is that shown by a watch. The time shown by the 
xeal sun is called " apparent time," and is that shown by 
a sun-dial. The difference between these two times is as 
much as sixteen minutes at certain seasons of the year. 
Now on the shortest day the sun'crosses the meridian nearly 
two minutes before twelve o'clock. He was earlier the few 
days before, therefore his time of setting was earlier too. 
Suppose that on December 21st apparent noon is at 
11.58 A.M. and the sun sets at 3.51 p.m., and on Decem- 
ber 14th the apparent noon is at 11.55 a.m. and the sun 
sets at 3.49 p.m. Now the aiteiiwmi on December 14th 
is one minute longer than on December 21st (3 hours 
54 minutes to 3 hours 53 minutes), and yet the sun has 
set two minutes earlier (by our watches).' 

December 20th. — Another beautiful afternoon. Such 
clear yellow skies ! To me the top twigs of Holly bushes 
against a primrose sky recall, oh ! so many winter days in 
,the past; long walks through bare woods and rustling 



138 MORE POT-POURRI 

brown leaves beneath our feet ; the closing-in of curtains 
in the warm fire-lit rooms where we grew up, which in 
old age I see as plainly as if I had never left the house 
where I was born. But to return to the weather of 
this year, the following was in a newspaper a day or 
two ago : ' A beautiful yellow butterfly was seen disporting 
itself in the sunshine of yesterday.' I did not see a 
butterfly here, but Chrysanthemums still linger, Violets 
are out, and the yellow Jasminium nudiflorum is in 
unusually full flower. 

I have no Mistletoe here, but I presume I might have 
it if I cultivated it. It no doubt has become so much 
rarer from being always cleared out of orchards, the 
pretty pale-fruited parasite being no friend to the Apple- 
trees. If one wishes to cultivate the Mistletoe, select a 
young branch of Willow, Poplar, Thorn, or an old Apple- or 
Pear-tree, and on the underside sUt the bark to insert the 
seed. The best time to do this is in February. One 
may merely rub a few seeds on the outside of the bark, 
but that is not so safe as inserting them actually under 
the bark. Eaising Mistletoe from seed is better than 
either grafting or budding. 

This is a good time for planting Ivies. There are 
many different kinds, and they will grow in such a satis- 
factory way in such bad places. In London gardens or 
back-yards Ivy can be made into quite a feature. As 
Curtis says in his ' Flora Londinensis ' : ' Few people are 
acquainted with the beauty of Ivy when suffered to run 
up a stake, and at length to form itself into a standard ; 
the singular complication of its branches and the vivid 
hue of its leaves give it one of the first places amongst 
evergreens in a shrubbery.' 

My Lancashire friend sends me a list of a few Eoses 
and annuals. Lists are always so useful to all gardeners, 
as it is interesting to know what one has got and what 



DECEMBER 139 

one has not, that I give his list as he wrote it : 'To begin 
with Eoses. Kaiserin Augusta Victoria; Allister Stella 
Gray, climber ; Gustave Eegis ; Maman Cochet, have done 
beat with me. Adonis autumnalis ; Alonsoa Warscewiczi ; 
Kcmlfiissia amelloides, are three annuals new to me. Aois 
autumnalis is a small South of Europe bulb, rare and sup- 
posed to thrive out of doors in sandy soil. Gimicifuga 
racemosa — I think all borders ought to have this tall-grow- 
ing, handsome herbaceous plant; Dictamnus fraxinella 
and its white variety; Eupatoriuni purjpureum ; OypsopMla 
prostrata; Phygelius capensis ; Polemonium Bichardsoni ; 
Budheckia purpurea ; Spigelia Marilandica ; Styrax jap- 
onica ; Thalictrum flavum. Withe7iia origanifoUa is a new, 
very highly praised creeper which I shall try.' I cannot 
find this creeper mentioned in any of my gardening books. 
Phormium tenax (the New Zealand Max) makes a 
very handsome tub plant for a bare entrance drive or 
large terrace. If treated like the Agapanthus in full sun 
it flowers. 

Two or three years ago, when I knew nothing about 
Eoses, a very clever Eose grower, who had devoted his 
hfe to them, wrote me out the following list, with the 
assurance that every one of them was worth having : ' A 
selection of Eoses which, in ground well dug and liber- 
ally fed with farmyard manure, sheltered but not over- 
shadowed, like Phyllis, " never fail to please." Hybrid 
Perpetuals : Duke of Edinburgh ; Btienne Levet ; 
General Jacqueminot ; Her Majesty ; Jules Margottin ; 
Marguerite Dickson; Mrs. John Laing; Merveille de 
Lyons ; Paul Neron ; Ulrich Brunner. Hybrid Teas : 
Captain Christy ; Grace Darling ; Gustave Eegis ; Lady 
Mary EitzwiUiam ; La France ; Vicomtesse Folkestone ; 
Caroline Testout. Teas : Anna Ollivier ; Bouquet d'Or ; 
Hom^re ; Madame de Watteville ; Madame Ealcot ; 



140 MORE POT-POURRI 

Madame Host6 ; Marie Van Houtte ; Perles des Jardins. 
Polyantha : Cecils Brunner ; Perle d'Or.' 

I have a near neighbour who is a most successful 
Eose grower. Walking through his beautifully kept beds 
the other day, I noted that the centre parts of the plant, 
both in standards and dwarfs, had some bracken twisted 
into them. This is a great protection against the coming 
frosts. For anyone who cares about the choicer Perns 
it is a protection to them, too, to have their own leaves 
twisted round them in the shape of a knob of hair on a 
woman's head, firmly tucking in the ends so that the 
winds of March may not untwist them. 

December 21si. — The perennial and ever-recurrent 
aspect of the London streets at this time of year always 
reminds me of the old happy Christmas hoUdays and of 
long walks with three young gentlemen lately returned 
home, who then considered it my chief defect that I had 
not three arms. The mental attitude which I tried to 
instil into them was to enjoy looking in at the shop- 
windows rather than to admire or, above all, wish to 
possess the extraordinary amount of rubbish displayed 
inside, which, though it looked well enough arranged in 
redundant heaps, would, I thought, seem to them mere 
money wasted in poor useless stuff if they brought it 
home. I dare say I am prejudiced in these matters, having 
always had a very great disUke to wholesale present- 
giving at fixed anniversaries, whether birthdays, Christmas, 
or New Year. 

I think that while children are quite small — say, up to 
the age of ten or twelve — we might leave the matter as it 
stands at present, as the said redundant heap on the 
nursery floor may give a pecuUar pleasure of its own. But 
this is quite different from an obUgatory present-giving to 
all sorts of people : servants and dependents, grown-up 
children, fathers, mothers, and old grannies. We all 
know houses where this kind of thing is much practised. 



DECEMBER 141 

and where year after year it is an immense toil to the 
givers and but very little appreciated by the receivers. 
It is almost laughable, the v^ay that people v^ho are 
apparently the greatest supporters of this custom of 
present-giving at stated times groan over the trouble 
and expense it entails, and congratulate themselves and 
each other when the terrible Christmas fortnight is at 
an end. 

This fashion of giving presents to all sorts of 
promiscuous people at special times has immensely 
increased since my childhood, when it was only beginning 
— imported no doubt, as far as Christmas is concerned 
from Germany. The Erench, who keep their rubbish- 
giving for the New Year, confine themselves almost 
entirely to flowers and bonbons, which, if equally useless, 
have at least the merit of passing away and of not 
crowding up our chimneypieces and writing-tables. The 
turning of every shop into a bazaar ; the display of meat, 
game, and turkeys on the outside of shops ; the spending 
of a disproportionate amount of money on feasting — all this 
is comparatively recent. I can quite well remember as a 
girl the excitement of first decorating a chm'ch. This 
developed into a fashion with the High Church party, 
and is not an old custom. I know one old clergyman 
who to this day refuses to allow any Christmas decorations, 
and says : 'Why desecrate my church with evergreens?' 
If it has any antiquity it is a Pagan revival, like flowers 
for the dead. It may be pretty and desirable, or the 
contrary, but it is not Old English, though the Druids 
may have been as fond of mistletoe as they were of 
oaks. 

To return to present-giving at anniversaries. I am 
more than willing to admit, as I have already said, that 
quite young children get considerable pleasure out of this 
custom, but even in their case it has distinct drawbacks. 



142 MORE POT-POURRI 

When children receive too many presents at the same 
time, it is apt to encourage criticism and ingratitude ; and 
having to thank for what they do not want or abready 
possess is too early a training in what might seem to a 
child hypocrisy. Not to look a gift horse in the mouth is 
excellent and reasonable to those who understand it, but 
neither in word nor idea does it convey anything to a 
child's mind. I heard two delicious child anecdotes last 
winter. One was of a village schoolboy helping to decor- 
ate a Christmas-tree for himself and his schoolfellows. 
He made a touching appeal to the kind but tired lady 
who was doing the same : ' Please, teacher, if you have 
anything to do vrith it, will you see that I get something 
that is not a pocket-handkerchief? I've got seven 
already ! ' Sad to say, his eighth pocket-handkerchief 
had been assigned to him, and he had to put up with 
it. The other story was of a rich little lady who was 
taken to a neighbour's Christmas-tree. On receiving a 
new doll she said to her mother : ' Eeally, I don't know, 
mother, what I shall do vrith this doll. I have so many 
already, how can 1 find room for her ? ' 

It goes against my sense of the fitness of things to put 
either charity or affection into a treadmill and force 
people to give presents at a particular fixed time. Do we 
not all know the phraseology so often heard in the 
shops: 'WiU this do? Does it look enough? It won't 
be much use, but that doesn't matter. Oh ! here's a 
new book that will do for So-and-so.' I heard of a 
wretched lady with rather well-known tastes in one 
direction who last Christmas received seven copies of one 
book. Then there are the presents for dependents, which 
are chosen in imitation of the luxuries of the master and 
mistress. The sham jewel brooch or the shoddy Glad- 
stone bag which costs fifteen shilHngs and is supposed to 
' look like thirty.' All this kind of thing seems to me 



DECEMBER 143 

false, and many people I know are ready enough to 
acknowledge what a slavery it is and how undesirable. 
Some reconcile themselves to the foUy by saying : ' Well, 
it can't be helped, and it's good for trade.' Even if this 
kind of artificial demand is really good for trade, which 
many doubt, this has nothing to do with whether it has 
a good or a bad effect on ourselves, on our children, and 
on those who surround us. 

The giving of wedding-presents, though it is continually 
referred to as a tax, is so essentially tiseful to the receivers 
when judiciously done that I not only say nothing against 
it, but think nothing against it. I remember, in the early 
'Sixties, a cousin who was the victim of twenty-seven 
ormolu inkstands ; but the practicalness of the present day 
solves the difficulty of duplicates, as the young people 
without the smallest concealment sell or exchange what 
they do not care about. 

Though few people may agree with my abuse of whole- 
sale present-giving at anniversaries, I think no one will 
deny that it tends to destroy some of the most delightful 
outward expressions of feeling that can exist between 
civilised human beings. To take the trouble to find out 
what somebody really wants ; to be struck by something 
beautiful, and to know to whom to give it ; to supply a 
real want to those who cannot afford it for themselves ; 
to give anything, however trifling, as a remembrance — 
all these are the gentle sweeteners of life, and need none 
of those goading reminders which come with the return 
of anniversaries. And to come to the more selfish aspect 
of the question. Instead of the callousness and almost 
fatigue in consequence of receiving a great number of 
presents at once, is there not a delight that lasts through 
hie until we are quite old at suddenly receiving a sym- 
pathetic and unexpected gift ? 

A great many people use holly and evergreens at 



144 MORE POT-POURRI 

Christmas-time to stick about the room in empty vases, 
round pictures, etc. But they hardly ever take the 
trouble to peel their stalks and put them in water, though 
— especially with holly — this makes all the difference as 
regards the retaining of its freshness ; and if arranged in a 
glass, not too thickly, it looks much more beautiful, and 
does not acquire a dusty, degraded appearance before New 
Year's Day. I cannot bear to see the poor evergreens 
shrivelling in the hot rooms. We used to have hardly 
any Holly berries in the garden here, but by judicious 
pruning in Eebruary we now get quantities of a very fine 
kind. 

One of my many correspondents wrote : ' If you are 
interested in the lighting of country houses, I can recom- 
mend the acetylene gas which our gardener makes for us. 
We have used it for over a year, and find it quite charming 
— a brUliant light, delightful to read by, cool, clean, and 
harmless to sUver, flowers, and clothes, and safe, so far as 
our experience goes. Oinrs is the " pure acetylene " made 
by Eaoul Picket's patent, and not the explosive kind.' 

December 22nd. — After all the fine mild weather I have 
been mentioning, it suddenly began to freeze, with hard, 
cold, moonhght nights. So to-day I thought of my little 
birds. I now find it prettier and less trouble, instead of 
hanging the string with cocoanut and suet from a window 
or a stiff cross-bar, to arrange it in the following way : 
I cut a big branch, lopping it more or less, and push it 
through the hole of a French iron garden-table that I 
happen to have which holds an umbrella in summer. On 
the other side of the house I stick a similar branch into 
the ground. On these I hang, Christmas-tree fashion, 
some pieces of suet and a tallow candle — the old ' dip ' — a 
cocoanut with a hole cut, not at the bottom as I recom- 
mended before, but in the side, large enough for the 
Tom-tits to sit on the edge and peck inside, and yet 



DECEMBER 145 

roofed enougH to prevent the rain-water collecting in it. 
They seem to have remembered the feeding from last 
year, as they began at the piece of suet at once. On the 
table below I used to put a basin to hold crumbs and 
scraps from meals — rice, milk, anything almost, for the 
other birds who will not eat either the fat or the cocoanut. 
But I found this was such a great temptation to the cats 
and dogs of the establishment, who became most extra- 
ordinarily acrobatic in the methods by which they got 
on to the table, that I had to devise wiring the saucer of 
a flower-pot and so hanging it on to the most extended 
branch, out of reach of the cleverest of Miss Pussies. 
If once it freezes very hard, I put out bowls of tepid 
water. This the birds much appreciate. 

December 23rd. — I have been out for a walk long after 
dark — or, rather, long after sunset, for the moon was 
shining bright in the cold indigo sky. At all times of 
year walking by moonlight gives me exquisite delight. 
Is it because I have done it so rarely, or because of the 
great beauty and mystery of it aU ? I went along our high 
road, the road along which Nelson travelled to Portsmouth 
on his way to Trafalgar, never to return. This evening it 
shone white and dry in the moonlight, and the tall black 
telegraph-poles — double the height and strength of those 
they replaced a few years ago, and which I have always 
hated for their aggressive size by daylight — in the winter 
moonlight only seemed to me straight and strong, and as 
if proud to support that wonderful network of wires which 
now encompasses the entire globe, annihilating time and 
making the far and the near as one, ceaselessly carrying 
those messages of happiness and despair, life and death, 
which in the space of a moment, in the opening of an 
envelope, bring sorrow or joy to many a home. Some- 
thing of the mystery of it all the wires sang to me 
to-night, with iEolian sounds different from any I have 



146 MORE POT-POURRI 

ever heard, on this one of the last evenings of a year 
that is nearly gone. By my lonely fireside this poem 
came to my recollection : 

The old friends, the old friends, 

We loved when we were young. 
With sunshine on their faces 

And music on their tongue I 
The bees are in the Almond flower. 

The birds renew their strain ; 
But the old friends once lost to us 

Can never come again. 

The old friends, the old friends. 

Their brow is lined with care ; 
They've furrows in the faded cheek 

And silver in the hair ; 
But to me they are the old friends still, 

In youth and bloom the same 
As when we drove the flying ball 

Or shouted in the game. 

The old men, the old men. 

How alow they creep along I 
How naughtily we scoffed at them 

In days when we were young ! 
Their prosing and their dosing. 

Their prate of times gone by. 
Their shiver like an aspen-leaf 

If but a breath went by. 

But we, we are the old men now ; 

Our blood is faint and chiU ; 
We cannot leap the mighty brook 

Or climb the break-neck hill. 
We maunder down the shortest cuts. 

We rest on stick or stile, 
And the young men, half ashamed to laugh 

Yet pass us with a smile. 

But the young men, the young men. 

Their strength is fair to see ; 
The straight back and the springy stride, 

The eye as falcon free ; 



DECEMBER 147 

They shout above the frolic wind 

As up the hill they go ; 
But though so high above us now, 

They soon shall be as low. 

Oh ! weary, weary, drag the years, 

As life draws near the end ; 
And sadly, sadly, fall the tears 

For loss of love and friend. 
But we'll not doubt there's good about 

In all of human kind ; 
So here's a health before we go 

To those wo leave behind I 

December 24:th. — It is so curious after a full life to be 
alone on Christmas Eve. But of course it was my own 
choice, and not necessary. I could have gone away, but 
I love these winter afternoons and the long evenings at 
home. It is also, I think, essential wisdom that the old 
should learn to live alone without depression, and above 
all without that far more deadly thing — ennui. I have 
no doubt that training for old age, to avoid being a 
bore and a burden to others, is as desirable as any other 
form of education. The changes brought about by 
circumstances mean, in a sort of way, a new birth, and 
one has to discover for oneself the best methods of re- 
adjusting the details of one's life. I find this poem 
written in one of my notebooks many years ago by a 
man whom I had known from childhood. Though he 
was not the author, the poem represented his feelings 
rather than mine. It has truth in it, but it also has a 
touch of bitterness, which appealed no doubt to a man 
who had reaped nothing but life's failure. He had 
always lived up in balloons of his own imaginings, 
believing in ultimate wealth, and having the power to 
draw forth money from others, merely to lose it. He 
died in old age and poverty in a garret at Venice. Do 
we reap as we sow? Very often; not always. I am 

1,2 



i48 MORE POT-POURRI 

sure that up to now I have never got back in mushrooms 
■what I have spent in spawn. Of course the fault is mine, 
I know that. 

Laugh, and the world laughs with you ; 

Weep, and you weep alone. 
For this brave old earth must borrow its mirth — 

It has sorrows enough of its own. 
Sing, and the hills will answer ; 

Sigh, it is lost in air, 
For the echoes bound to a joyous sound — 

They shrink from the voice oi care. 

Bejoice, and men will seek you ; 

Grieve, and they aU will go. 
For they want full measure of all your pleasure — 

They do not heed your woe. 
Be glad, and your friends are many ; 

Be sad, and you lose them all. 
For none will decline your nectared wine — 

Alone, you must drink life's gall. 

Feast, and your halls are crowded ; 

Fast, and the world goes by ; 
Succeed and give ; it will help you live — 

No man can help you die. 
There is room in the halls of pleasure 

For a long and lordly train. 
But one by one we must all pass on 

Through the narrow aisles of pain. 

I like ' Bethia Hardacre's ' song better, and to me the 
spirit is truer : 

Bring me the book whose pages teach 
The fortitude the Stoics preach. 
Bring me the tome within whose scope 
There lies the quickening of dead hope ; 
Bring me the comfort of a mind 
That good in every ill can find. 
And of a heart that is content 
With its desire's relinquishment. 



/ 
DECEMBER 149 

Ebceipts 

A kind friend sent me to-night half a pumpkin — a real 
French pumpkin. (See Vilmorin's ' Vegetable Garden,' 
Potiron jaune gros.) It was grown near here, and had 
kept perfectly. It was moist, and a beautiful apricot 
colour inside. I wonder always why the only pumpkin 
grown in England is the vegetable marrow. Sutton 
feebly recommends others in his book, but hardly makes 
enough of them as useful winter vegetables. Here is a 
true French receipt for Pumpkin Soup. Cut up the 
slices of pumpkin (say, about half a large one), and boil 
them in water. When well cooked, strain off the water 
and pass the pulp through a sieve. Boil half a pint of 
milk, add a piece of butter, very little salt, and a good 
tablespoonful of castor sugar. Pour this boiUng mUk on 
to the pumpkin pulp. Let it boil a few minutes. The 
soup must be thick, and small fried crusts should be sent 
up with it. This receipt is enough for two people. 
Dried vegetable marrow is not supposed to be so good, 
but I had some soup to-night prepared exactly in the 
same way from a large dried vegetable marrow, and it 
was excellent, though it had not quite so much flavour. 

All through the last month my salads have been nearly 
as good as in summer, from tarragon and chive tops being 
forced in the greenhouse. Parsley and chervil are still 
good out of doors. When once one has become used to 
the herbs in salad, it does seem so tasteless without them. 

Lentil Toast. — Four to six ounces of lentils, one 
ounce of butter, water, and slices of buttered toast. Look 
over and thoroughly rinse the lentils, and put them into 
a small saucepan with enough water to well cover them. 
Cook slowly till they are tender and the water all absorbed 
(ten to twenty minutes). Add butter, pepper, and salt ; 
spread thickly on the hot buttered toast, and serve with 
mint sauce. Suitable as a supper or breakfast dish. 



ISO MORE POT-POURRI 

Green and White Haricot Beans.— Soak in cold 
water for twelve or even twenty-four hours, then put 
them into boiling water with a httle salt and two minced 
shallots. Cook till tender, but not mashed. They will 
take from two to two and a half hours, and must be 
watched. A bunch of herbs and a bacon bone, or a 
little raw bacon, greatly improve the flavour, but can 
easily be omitted. Before dishing up, toss them in a little 
butter and serve very hot. Thin Enghsh melted butter 
with chopped parsley can be used as a change. 

It is worth while to know that with all hard vegetables 
— peas, beans, lentils, etc. — if they have not been soaked 
the day before, the way to boU them slowly is to add 
every now and then a tablespoonful of cold water. The 
same thing applies to dried fruit. 

To Roast a Fine Larg-e Volaille (Chicken or Capon 
or Young Turkey). — Take some very fat bacon or a good 
tablespoonful of good grease (clarified fat of beef or pork 
kidney, half and half). Dissolve it in a very deep 
copper stevvpan and let it get hot, but not very hot. Put 
the chicken into it, having previously well trussed it; 
chop up the liver and gizzard with some unsmoked raw 
bacon, and insert this in the bird. Put the lid on, and let 
it braise gently on top of the hot-plate by a slow fire. The 
chicken ought to produce enough moisture by itself to pre- 
vent it from roasting too fast. Should this be deficient add 
a very httle stock. After from thirty to forty minutes turn 
the fowl over, with the breast to the bottom of the pot, so 
that it gets a little coloured in its turn. The largest fowl 
takes an hour and a quarter. When done, remove it on to 
a dish. Add a little stock to the brown glaze that adheres 
to the stewpan, having previously removed the grease 
with a spoon. Pour it round the fowl or into a sauce- 
boat and serve with the fowl. 

An excellent way of making a next-day dish out of 



DECEMBER 151 

roast turkey is one I saw many years ago in a French 
restaurant. 

Ailerons de Dinde aux Navets.— Take the wing- 
bones and a portion of the legs of a roast turkey, and divide 
them into reasonable-sized pieces. Take some cold stock 
which has been already well flavoured with vegetables, and 
add a little more onion cut fine. Stew by the side of the 
stove till the meat is tender, not broken away. Add a good 
large quantity of turnips cut into small dice and a very 
small amount of burnt sugar, pepper, and salt. Stew all 
together till the turnips are quite cooked (which depends 
a good deal on the quality of the turnips) and the stock 
reduced. Serve in a hash-dish. The whole can also be 
cooked in a small fireproof casserole, and served in that 
with a clean napkin round it. The excellence of this dish 
depends on the goodness of the stock and very slow 
cooking. 

Raw Liver of Chickens chopped up with a little 
bacon fat and fried, then put on to toast with pepper and 
salt, is a good breakfast dish or savoury. 



IS2 MORE POT-POURRI 



JANUARY 

1899 

Difficulties of growing Daphne mdica— Journey last year to Ireland 
— Cutting down and re-planting trees — Apples — Skimmed milk — 
Manure heaps — Winter Honeysuckle — Botanical Gardens in Dub- 
lin — Botticelli's drawings — Tissot's Bible — EippingiUe's patent 
stove — Blue flowers — ' Snowdrop-time ' — ' The Sun-children's 
Budget ' — Floral notes from ' The Scotsman ' — Eeoeipts. 

January 5th. — After a white frost in the morning 
we have had a day which, except for its shortness, we 
should be satisfied with and think beautiful in early spring. 
These mild, sunny winter days do great harm in prema- 
turely forcing growth, but I know few things which it would 
be more difficult to wish non-existent. They make up to 
me for so many of our winter trials — fog and cold and 
darkness. I would not change them for the ' Sunny South,' 
where sunshine is a right, while here it comes as a most 
gracious gift — all the more appreciated because it appears 
unexpectedly and lasts such a short time. 

I have a plant of Daphne indica, one of my favourite 
winter flowers, in my greenhouse now. It is in flower 
and smeUing dehciously, but does not look at all satisfac- 
tory, although it was only bought last year. It was put out 
of doors last summer, as it ought to be, but was allowed 
to get dry. It made no growth ; it is leggy, drawn up, and 
the leaves are yellow, which with hard-wooded plants 
generally means over- watering in winter. I have tried for 
years to grow these Daphnes, but they are difficult to strike, 



JANUARY 153 

difficult to grow, and have a quite extraordinary love of 
dying without any very obvious reason. I must devote 
myself to finding out, if possible, what the reason is. I 
see that Mr. Smee, in his book ' My Garden,' says they 
did the same with him. 

I have just gathered three beautiful, full white buds 
ofif a Niphetos Eose in the conservatory next the drawing- 
room. It is blooming extra early this year. 

January Qth. — Fate caused me to go to Ireland about 
this time last year. I dreaded the long night journey 
and the arrival on the gray winter morning. But were 
the steamers far less splendid sea-boats than they are, and 
the waves every day as stormy as they sometimes are, I 
think it still would be well worth while for any garden- 
fancier to visit Ireland in January, if only to admire and 
enjoy the luxuriant green of the evergreens and the beauty 
of the winter-flowering shrubs. I had never seen Garrya 
ellvptica in full beauty before. It had catkins six or seven 
inches long, flowering from end to end, one little flower 
growing out of the other like a baby chain made with 
cowsUps. The Jasminum nudiflorwm was not a flowering 
branch here and there, as in England, but one sheet of 
brilliant yellow flowers. This beautiful plant is very easy 
to propagate by laying some of the branches along the 
ground and covering them with earth. In six or seven 
months they will have made good root, and can be taken 
up and planted where desired. One house I saw in the 
neighbourhood of Dublin was covered on its southern side 
with the Clematis cirrhosa or winter-flowering Clematis 
from Algiers. The house was an old one, much frequented 
by John Wesley and mentioned in Southey's Life. On 
one of the thick strong walls, inside, was the following 
inscription (translated, I believe, from the German) : 

The Angels from their throne on high 
Look down on us with pitying eye, 



154 MORE POT-POURRI 

That where we are but passing guests 
We build such strong and solid nests, 
And where we hope to dwell for aye 
We scarce take heed a stone to lay. 

There is a strong, practical common-sense in the lines 
which would have appealed to Wesley's instincts. 

I saw at Howth a beautiful plant of the Desfontainaa 
spinosa, with its foliage so like the Holly and its hand- 
some flowers in the form of a tube, bright scarlet tipped 
with yeUow. This I had never seen flowering before, and 
one is not likely to come across it except under circum- 
stances as favourable as those which belong to the Irish 
climate or to the west coast of Lancashire and Scotland. 
It seems almost a platitude to say that it is worth while 
going to Ireland to see the great beauty of the Irish Yew, 
one of the forms of the Common Yew, Taxus fastigiata. In 
old days in Ireland, I am told, it was called the Florence 
Court Yew, from Florence Court, where it was raised from 
seed about 1780. Seeds of this variety produce for the 
most part only the Common Yew, though some vary in 
form and tint. AU the plants in cultivation are of the 
female sex, according to Loudon. 

Whatever may be the climatic disadvantages of Ire- 
land, such as sunlessness and damp, the air remains clear 
and pure, the soil is unexhausted, and it is free from many 
of the agricultural difficulties of other countries. In the 
south, at any rate, there are no manufactures, no smoke, 
no coal-mines, none of those things which injure the atmo- 
sphere in parts of England, and make the cultivation of 
vegetables and flowers difficult or even impossible. As 
in the troubles of individuals few things help more than 
sympathy with and an effort to understand the trials of 
others, so it is, I think, among nations. If Ireland could 
turn her attention to the trials England has gone through 
at various epochs of her history, of a kind which 



JANUARY 15s 

Ireland, through the very nature of circumstances, has 
escaped, there would be less of that one-sided judgment 
which incUnes to think that all the woes of Ireland are 
peculiarly her own, yet solely due to the rule of the English. 
Troubles and difficulties come to all nations alike, and 
certainly England herself is in no way exempt. Witness, 
for instance, the terrible misery produced by the introduc- 
tion of machinery, the cotton famines, and even the legisla- 
tion of recent days which stopped the importation of rags 
for fear of the cholera. Let those who care for a vivid 
picture of such times read an old, forgotten novel by 
Benjamin Disraeli, written in the early part of this reign 
and called ' Sybil.' 

During a short excursion into the country by rail I 
was shocked to see how the trees, already less plentiful 
than they ought to be, proclaimed that sure sign of 
neglect — they were almost invariably covered with Ivy. 
This beautiful semi-parasitical plant is very picturesque, 
and many people have a sentimental love for it from its 
greenness in winter ; but it destroys the trees, and though 
it may hasten the end of very old trees to cut the 
Ivy down suddenly, it should always be killed on young 
trees — by cutting it through the stem at the base and 
allowing it to perish and fall away. I am told that one of 
the curious effects of the last Land Act is that the pro- 
prietors of land imagine they have an unlimited right to 
cut down their trees, without considering the evil effects 
this will have on the future climate and wealth of their 
country. As it is, Ireland has been far too much deprived 
of her forests in the past, and I, with the tyranny of one 
who imagines that she understands everybody's affairs 
better than they do themselves, should make the cutting- 
down of trees penal. The wise old Dutch settlers at the 
Cape understood this subject well. They made a law 
■which enforced that every man who cut down one tree 



iS6 MORE POT-POURRI 

should plant two in its stead. Everybody who has a 
little plot of land should never fail every autumn to plant 
some acorns, beech-nuts, chestnuts, etc. Many trees will 
also strike from cuttings in spring, notably all the WUlow 
tribe, which grow the moment they are stuck into the 
ground. If I were a young Irishman I should delight 
in thus renewing the woods and copses of my country. 
We know how the Irish love the soil, and the feeling is 
not badly expressed in this little poem, which I copied 
from an English newspaper: 

Often I wish that I might be, 

In this divinest weather, 
Among my father's fields — ah me 1 

And he and I together. 

Below the mountains, fair and dim. 

My father's fields are spreading : 
I'd rather tread the sward with him 

Than dance at any wedding. 

Oh, green and fresh your EngKsh sod. 

With daisies sprinkled over, 
But greener far were the fields I trod 
That foamed with Irish clover. 

Oh, well your skylark cleaves the blue 

To bid the sun good-morrow I 
'Tis not the bonny song I knew 

Above an Irish furrow. 

And often, often, I'm longing still. 

In this all-golden weather. 
For my father's face by an Irish hill. 

And he and I together. 

One of the most beautiful colour-effects I saw in 
Ireland was a small lake planted with great clumps of 
Dog-wood, with its crimson branches beside the bright 
yellow of the Golden "Willow, 



JANUARY 157 

A great deal might be done by a study of the most 
suitable Apple-trees to grow in Ireland. There seemed to 
me no reason why they should not do as well there as in 
Herefordshire or Normandy, but I have been since told 
that the want of sun does interfere with their ripening. 
This, however, only means that extra study must be given 
as to which kinds should be planted. The chief require- 
ments of Apple-trees are slight pruning in the winter and 
tying round the stem in October a band of sticky paper, to 
prevent the female moth, who has no wings, from crawling 
up and laying her eggs in the branches, to come to Ufe the 
follovnng spring and devour leaves and blossoms. Apples 
are most excellent wholesonie food. An Apple is quite as 
nourishing as a Potato, and a roast Apple with brown 
sugar is a far more palatable dinner for a sick child. 
Apples very likely might be plentiful in seasons when 
Potatoes did badly, and in districts near to markets they 
would fetch a much more fancy price. The following 
I must have copied out of some old book or newspaper : 
'Chemically, the Apple is composed of vegetable fibre, 
albumen, sugar, gum, chlorophyll, mahc acid, gallic acid, 
lime, and much water. Furthermore, the Apple contains 
a larger percentage of phosphorus than any other fruit 
or vegetable. This phosphorus, says the "Family 
Doctor," is admirably adapted for renewing the essential 
nervous matter, lethicin, of the brain and spinal cord. 
It is perhaps for the same reason, rudely understood, 
that old Scandinavian traditions represent the Apple as 
the food of the gods, who, when they felt themselves to 
be growing feeble and infirm, resorted to this fruit for 
renewing their powers of mind and body. Also the acids 
of the Apple are of great use for men of sedentary habits 
whose livers are sluggish in action, these acids serving 
to eliminate from the body noxious matters which, if 
retained, would make the brain heavy and dull, or bring 



iS8 MORE POT-POURRI 

about jaundice or skin eruptions and other allied troubles. 
Some such experience must have led to our custom of 
taking Apple sauce with roast pork, rich goose, and like 
dishes. The malic acid of ripe Apples, either raw or 
cooked, will neutralise any excess of chalky matter 
engendered by eating too much meat. It is also the fact 
that such fresh fruit as the Apple, the Pear, the Plum, 
when taken ripe and without sugar, diminish acidity in the 
stomach, rather than provoke it. Their vegetable salts 
and juices are converted into alkaline carbonates, which 
tend to counteract acidity. A ripe, raw Apple is one of 
the easiest vegetable substances for the stomach to deal 
with, the whole process of its digestion being completed 
in eighty-five minutes. Gerarde found that the " pulpe 
of roasted Apples mixed in a wine quart of faire water, 
and labored together until it comes to be as Apples and 
ale — which we call lambes-wool — never faileth in certain 
diseases of the raines, which myself hath often proved, 
and gained thereby both crownes and credit. The paring 
of an Apple cut somewhat thick, and the inside whereof 
is laid to hot, burning, or running eyes at night, when the 
party goes to bed, and is tied or bound to the same, doth 
help the trouble very speedily, and contrary to expecta- 
tion — an excellent secret.'' ' 

Many people must have asked themselves how, in the 
old days long ago, before the Potato came from America, 
even the sparse population of Ireland fed itself i I feel 
no doubt that the good monks who brought the art of 
illuminating and of making the lovely old carved crosses, 
also grew their vegetables, and did not find the climate 
unfavourable. Probably, however, no other vegetable 
will ever now take the place, as an article of food, of the 
much-loved Potato ; nor is this in any way to be desired. 
Curiously enough, the other day a great London physician 
remarked to me, quite independently of Ireland and its 



JANUARY 159 

troubles, that in his estimation the ideal food for the 
human race was Potatoes and skimmed or separated milk, 
all the nourishing properties of millc being there, the cream 
containing nothing but the fat, which stout people are 
better without. It is quite curious how few even educated 
people know or believe this. Skimmed or separated milk 
is constantly thrown away as useless, or given to the pigs ; 
whereas it is very much better for adults than new milk, 
if they are eating other foods. 

Modem science has made it quite easy, by using pre- 
ventives in time, to keep down the Potato disease ; but in 
spite of all this certain losses of crops are sure to occur, 
and the all-important thing is to cultivate the vegetables 
which would probably succeed best in the mUd wet 
autumns so dangerous to the Potato crop. 

Where land and manure are forthcoming, seeds — 
which should be of the best — represent the principal 
outlay in the growing of vegetables. It is much more 
prudent to make many sowings in succession than to sow 
a great quantity at once. It is said that a Cabbage may 
grow anywhere and anyhow, that it will thrive on any 
soil, and that the seed may be sown every day in the 
year. All this is nearly true, and proves that we have a 
wonderful plant to deal with, and that it is one of man's 
best friends. Linnaeus, the great botanist, mentions 
that he found it the only vegetable growing on the borders 
of the Arctic Circle. The Cabbage has one persistent 
plague only, and that is club or anbury, for which there 
is no direct remedy or preventive known ; and the best 
indirect way of fighting the enemy is our old friend elbow- 
grease or hard work. The crop should constantly be 
moved ; never grown twice in the same place, either as a 
seed bed or planted out, without well digging or tilling 
the ground, putting it to other uses and well manuring 
it. All the Cabbage tribe are great consumers, hence 



i6o MORE POT-POURRI 

the need for abundant manuring. Wherever there are 
manure heaps near houses or stables, or in farmyards, 
it is very desirable to sink a tub in the ground on the 
lowest side of the heap, where the manure has a tendency 
to drain, cutting out a nick in the tub to guide in the 
liquid, which can be constantly emptied out with a can. 
This liquid makes very valuable nourishment for young 
vegetables, pot-plants, and in fact all garden produce — 
strength in youth being naturally a great help to the 
whole crop. Besides its usefulness, this prevents the 
tmtidy wasting of a manure heap. 

I am very ignorant of Irish affairs in general, but I 
listened with extreme interest to all that I could hear 
of the co-operative movement now being carried out by so 
many farmers in Ireland. I have since kept myself 
informed in the matter by taking in that excellent little 
weekly paper 'The Irish Homestead.' Mr. WiUiam 
Lawler in a long poem in the ' London Year-Book ' for 
1898 begins a paragraph on Ireland, of which the first 
Hues at any rate do not inappropriately express my wishes 
and my hopes for the co-operation of Irish industries : 

Oh, Ireland, when your children shall abate 
Their love of captious things to study great ; 
When you shall let your aspirations lie 
Far less in Statecraft than in Industry ; 

Then shall your people prosper and advance. 

A charming shrub, and new to me, is Escallonia 
pterocladon, which I saw growing on the walls of a house 
in Ireland ; it was covered in this mid-vnnter time vsrith 
white flowers rather like a large Privet. 

I saw a pretty dinner-table decoration consisting of a 
quantity of Jasmimum nudiflorum picked and put in small 
glasses with leaves from greenhouse plants. Also an 
effective decoration was of Geranium flowers (Pelar- 



JANUARY i6i 

goniums, red or pink) arranged in saucers full of eqoss 
and — in between these — narrow, pointed glasses with 
branches of pink Begonias. A little winter-flowering 
Begonia, called Gloire de Lorraine, has lately come into 
fashion. What a term for a flower ! But it is true, and 
plants of this Begonia make a charming table decoration 
at a time of year when flowers are scarce. They look best 
growing in pots. Eoman hyacinths in glasses could be 
placed between, and pink shades used for the candles ; or, 
for a small table, one plant in the middle would be enough. 
The colour, the growth, the shape of the leaves, all make 
it charming. I do not yet know if it is difficult to grow, 
as I have only lately bought a plant. 

I did not see it in Ireland, but a shrub that should 
never be omitted from any garden, small or large, is 
Lonicera fragrantissima. It begins to flower in January, 
and continues through February and March. Like every 
flower or shrub I know, a little care — such as pruning 
and mulching — improves its flowering powers. I had it 
here in a neglected state in a shrubbery for years. I only 
knew its pretty green leaves, and never guessed what it 
was or its early-flowering qualities. But my gardening 
ignorance in those days was supreme. 

In spite of the time of year I had pleasant days 
in Dublin at the College Botanical Garden and also 
at Glasnevin, the ' Kew of Dublin.' The little Irises 
Stylosa alba and speciosa were flowering well. They 
must be starved ; for if their foliage is good, it means no 
flowers. Many kinds of Hellebores were coming into 
bloom, some of which I had never seen before. The 
warm damp winters are very favourable to January- 
flowering plants, and we can scarcely expect to copy 
them in Surrey. The rather rare and interesting Daphne 
blagayana was growing to a great size, and covered with 
flowers, at Glasnevin. Mr. Eobinson describes it as a. 



i62 MORE POT-POURRI 

' beautiful, dwarf Alpine shrub of easy growth.' I have 
not found it at all easy; in fact, two out of the three plants 
I had have died, and the third looks rather ill. But I 
think I tried to grow it too much in the sun ; it also wants 
pegging down every year after flowering. 

In a country house in Ireland I saw last year for the 
first time the reproductions, sanctioned by the Berlin 
Government, of Botticelli's illustrations of Dante. I never 
knew before that such things existed, or that outline 
book-iUustration of that kind was so old. The original 
drawings had belonged to Lord Ashburnham's collection, 
and we in England allowed them to be bought at his sale 
by the German Government for 25,000Z. — an unfortunate 
result of the law which never allowed the authorities 
either of the Print Eoom in the British Museum or of the 
National GaUery to keep any money in hand. These 
drawings are curious rather than very beautiful, and many 
of them are unfinished. In the illustrations of Hell and 
Purgatoi-y, Botticelli glories in detail ; but the ' Paradiso ' 
is left almost entirely to the imagination. Dante and 
Beatrix surrounded by a circle, he himself appearing often 
blinded by the rays of light, the whole surrounded by 
more circles ; this is all he seems to have dared attempt. 

In this same house I was able to turn from these 
lineal illustrations of the fifteenth century, with their 
delicate though meagre draughtsmanship, to the latest 
and richest of modern illustrations, the finest colour- 
printing that France has been able to produce — the 
Tissot Bible. It was not otherwise than satisfactory to 
realise that, however much art may have in some respects 
deteriorated, these illustrations, artistically and mechanic- 
ally, surpassed those particular dravrings of the Middle 
Ages, though the comparison is an unfair one. It would 
be immensely interesting to know what will be thought 
of this Tissot Bible in a hundred years. 



JANUARY 163 

January 6th. — I always order all the kitchen-garden 
seeds during January. My method is this — the gardener 
marks Sutton's list, and then brings it to me to alter 
or add to it any out-of-the-way vegetable. It is most 
important to go through the catalogues and order seeds 
early in this month. This enables you to get first choice, 
and you are then prepared for any kind of weather, and 
can sow early if desirable. Also it is easy to make up 
omissions later on while still not too late. For all the 
flower-seeds that are the result of careful cultivation^ — 
such as Sweet-peas, Mignonette, Asters, Salpiglossis, and 
so on — the great nurserymen cannot, of course, be sur- 
passed in excellence. But for small people who grow a 
variety of flowers they are very expensive, as they only sell 
large packets of seeds, have few things out of the common, 
and hardly any interesting perennials at all. I said before 
and continue to say that, for all uncommon seeds, there is 
one man without any rival so far as I know, and that is 
Mr. Thompson of Ipswich. His catalogue alone is most 
descriptive and instructive. It is the only catalogue I know 
arranged simply and alphabetically, with a column telling 
whether the plants are hardy or half-hardy, tender or per- 
ennial, greenhouse, stove, etc. It also is the only catalogue 
which gives the approximate height that the plant ought 
to reach when grown to perfection. But of course this 
varies immensely, as he says himself, with the character 
of the soil and situation in which they are cultivated, 
especially if grown in pots. With this list and a careful 
reference from the things named to the more detailed 
accounts in the 'English Flower Garden' or in John- 
son's 'Gardener's Dictionary,' the requirements of all 
the plants that are grown in English gardens can be 
arrived at. The books will tell you better than the cata- 
logue which are the things best worth growing from 
seed. But a certain amount of experience and natural 

m2 



i64 MORE POT-POURRI 

intelligence can never be left out of this kind of study. 
Mr. Thompson is also exceedingly obliging about procuring 
the seeds of certain wild plants which may not be in his 
catalogue, but which are very deshable to grow in rather 
large gardens where there is room, such as Tussilago 
fragrans and Iris fatidissima. What amateurs find most 
difficult in arranging herbaceous borders — even more diffi- 
cult than colour itself — is to acquire sufficient knowledge 
of plants to judge of their strength and robustness, and 
above all of their relative height. Putting Mr. Eobinson 
aside, the only book I know that is fuU of instruction, 
particularly in this respect, is the one I named before with 
great appreciation, ' The Botanic Garden,' by B. Maund. 
Gardeners and amateurs who are really interested in 
the subject are beginning to discover that to grow many 
plants successfully, especially in light sandy or gravelly 
soils, you must grow them from seed in the same air and 
soil in which they are expected ultimately to succeed. 
For this you must have three or four small pieces of 
ground given up to the purpose — some dry, some wet, 
some sunny, some shady, and which wUl require nothing 
but weeding and thinning. Seed-sowing, like all other 
planting, requires a great deal of thought and considera- 
tion. Some grow up in a few days and, every seed 
having germinated, require much thinning, however much 
you may imagine you have sown thinly enough. Some 
seedlings wiU transplant perfectly, and not suffer at all in 
the move; others must be sown in place at all risks. 
One seed-bed is required that can be left entirely alone 
for (say) two years, except for just breaking with a hand- 
fork and weeding, as some seeds germinate very slowly. 
Where this is known to be the case, with large foreign 
seeds it is weU before sowing to soak them for twenty- 
four hours in warm water and a little oil — or even to 
puncture the hard skin, as with Cannas. For instance, 



JANUARY i6s 

I shall certainly soak the seeds of the little Zucche, a kind 
of Vegetable Marrow that I brought from Florence last 
year, as it is a plant that in England has to do much 
growth in a short time, and it is desirable to get it well 
grown on in good time to plant out at the end of May. 
The exact time of putting out must depend on the 
season, and must be decidedly after that late May 
frost which comes every year without fail, and which 
in some years does gardens so much harm, though 
we all know how this may be guarded against by a 
little protection. 

I think the multiplicity of nurserymen, small and 
great, and the gardeners' sympathy with the trade, have 
had much to do with the fact that the sowing of seeds, 
except in the case of annuals, has gone so out of fashion. 
No matter where I go, it is not one garden in a hundred 
that has these permanent small nurseries for seeds or 
even for cuttings, or a reserve garden as described before. 
And yet I am sure many of the best perennials cannot 
be grown at all in a light sandy soil unless they are 
grown from seed on the spot, and a great many more are 
only to be seen in real perfection if they are treated as 
annuals or biennials. The growing of seeds is a work 
which an amateur gardener can see to himself — or, indeed, 
herself — and I am sure gardening is the healthiest occupa- 
tion in the world, as it keeps one much out of doors. 
Instead of lolling indoors in comfortable chairs, one moves 
about, and with the mind fully occupied all the time. 

They sell at the Army and Navy Stores an admirable 
little lamp-stove (Eippingille's patent) for heating small 
greenhouses. This will keep the frost out of a small 
house, and is far easier to manage, for an amateur with a 
gardener who goes home at night, than the usual more 
expensive arrangement. 

There are also small forcing-boxes to put inside a 



i66 MORE POT-POURRI 

greenhouse or in a room for bringing on seeds in early- 
spring. 

Greenhoiise Cyclamens are always useful, and should 
be sown early in the year (February or March) in heat. 
They should be grown on steadily under glass all the 
summer, and kept well watered, then they will flower all 
through the next winter. Mr. Thompson sells Cyclamen 
seed of the sweet old-fashioned kind, which is rather diffi- 
cult to get from other nurserymen, who all go in for the 
giant sizes, and are now spoiling this lovely flower by 
doubling it. It is best to grow them every year from seed ; 
but if the old plants are sunk out of doors and kept moist 
through the summer they flower very well. I have a 
large old plant this winter in a hanging basket, and its 
appearance is very satisfactory. Some gardeners dry the 
bulbs on a greenhouse shelf ; that also answers. 

I would advise everyone to try and get the old Prince 
of Orange Pelargonium. There is nothing like it, but it is 
not easy to get, as gardeners do not understand that it 
requires to be treated hke an ordinary flowering Pelar- 
gonium, rather than like the hardier sweet-leaved kind. 
It wants weU cutting back at the end of the summer, and 
then growing on in rather more heat than the ordinary 
sweet-leaved Pelargoniums. This httle care and con- 
stantly striking young plants in the summer vfill prevent 
its dying out. Out of the fifteen to twenty kinds of sweet- 
leaved Geraniums which I possess, I consider it the 
most valuable and the best worth having. 

Cuttings of the best French Laurestinus, struck in 
May and grown on to a small standard, make excellent 
filling-up plants for a greenhouse now, and if judiciously 
pruned back after flowering, and stood out in half-shado 
all the summer, they are covered with large white 
flowers at this time of year. When they get too large for 
pots or tubs they can be planted out in shrubberies ; if a 



JANUARY 167 

little protected by other shrubs, they flower as freely as 
the common one, and the flower, even out of doors, is 
larger and whiter. 

After marking Sutton's list I mark Thompson's, as some 
of the flower-seeds are best sown early in January. The 
difficulty about sowing seeds early is that they want care 
and protection for a long time after sowing and before they 
can be put out. We are able to sow the hardier annuals 
here by the middle of March, especially Poppies, Corn- 
flowers, Love-in-the-Mist, Gypsophila, etc. I am sure that, 
in this Ught soil, the second sowing in April never does so 
well for early-flowering annuals. Autumn things, on the 
contrary, are best not sown till May, or they come on too 
early. I never sow Salpiglossis or Nemesia out of doors 
and in place till the beginning of May. In favourable 
weather Sweet-peas may be sown, like Green Peas, in a 
trench out of doors very early in the year. 

One of my kind correspondents said she observed I 
was not so rich in blue flowers as was desirable, and 
named the following. I mean to get all those I do not 
already possess. Gommelina ccelestis, Anchusa italica, A. 
capensis, A. sempervirens, Pa/rochetus communis, Phacelia 
campanularia. Gommelina cmlestis does very well in a dry 
back-garden of a London house. Browallia data is a 
most useful annual, and there is a good pictm-e of it in 
Curtis's ' Botanical Magazine.' Gatananche carulea is an 
old border perennial, and I have it. Linaria reticulata 
is a pretty, small annual; so is L. aureo-purpurea and 
L. bipartita. Omphalodes lucilice I have tried to get, but 
failed, and mean to grow it from seed. 

■January 8th. — I have read once or twice in the news- 
papers that butterflies have been seen from time to time 
this mild winter, and now this morning I have caught sight 
of one of these Press butterflies, a beautiful large yeUow 
one, floating over the field as if it were summer. 



1 68 MORE POT-POURRI 

To-day we have been sowing, in shallow ridges in our 
most favoured border, two or three kinds of early Green 
Peas. How this kind of thing draws the seasons together ! 
I dare say we have much that is disagreeable before us ; 
stiU, when these Peas are ready, it will be leafy June and 
spring will be over. 

January 9th. — The Iberis that ornaments French 
cottage windows and that I called ' Oibraltarica ' in the 
first book is not that at all, but I. sempervirens. I have 
one in. the greenhouse that was cut back all the summer 
and potted up in October. It has been in flower three 
weeks now, and vnll go on for a long time. In the spring 
I shall cut it well back and plant it out in the reserve 
garden. It grows easily from cuttings, and Mr. Thompson, 
of Ipsvnch, keeps the seed. It is, of course, not a choice 
plant, but it is an attractive and useful one for those who 
have not much convenience for forcing on winter-flowering 
things in December and January. Like many of the 
commoner plants, I have never seen it grown as a window 
plant in England, though it would do well. 

January 12th. — The first little Aconites are out to-day ! 
This is early Going through January without cold is 
rather despairing. I find that even in this dry soil the 
Aconites do much better under evergreens and at the 
edges of shrubs than in the borders which are manured 
and mulched. The borders are too good for them, and 
they increase better if not disturbed. I mention this, as 
I was so stupidly long in finding it out myseK. The 
more the uneducated gardening mind cares about a plant, 
the more it turns to manure and mulching ; but in many 
cases it does more harm than good— notably with Aconites, 
Daffodils, Scillas, etc. What they all want is moistm-e 
and protection at the growing-time. Drying ever so 
much in the summer does them good rather than harm, 
and they never do well in a bed that is hosed or watered 



JANUARY 169 

to suit other things. "With the Aconites, our first out- 
door friends, come a few Snowdrops. They have never 
been planted here in any quantity, and have a tendency 
to diminish rather than increase : perhaps mice are 
especially fond of them. I am more than ever determined 
to plant a large quantity next year; enough, if possible, for 
me and the mice too. This httle Snowdrop poem has 
such an echo of ' The Baby-seed Song ' — a great favourite 
in my other book — that I copy it out of a recent ' Pall 

Mall Gazette ' : 

SNOWDBOP-TIME 

' It's ratlier dark in the earth to-day,' 

Said one little bulb to his brother ; 
' But I thought that I felt a sunbeam ray — 
We must strive and grow till we find the way ! ' 

And they nestled close to each other. 
Then they struggled and toiled by day and by night 
TiU two little Snowdrops, in green and white. 
Rose out of the darkness and into the light. 

And softly kissed one another. 

In the greenhouse have now been put the first pots of 
the lovely double Prunus with its delicate whiteness of 
driven snow ; no plant forces better. I said this, or some- 
thing Uke it, before. Never mind, with some plants it is 
worth while to repeat myself. In the country I do not 
now care to grow Indiarubber plants or Aspidistras, except 
to give away. They only remind me of towns, and take a 
good deal of room. 

I have in the greenhouse several pots of a white 
Oxalis — I do not know its distinguishing name — with a 
long growth of its lovely fresh green leaves, which can be 
picked and mixed with delicate greenhouse flowers, as 
they last well in water. It has a white flower in spring, 
and the whole plant is very like an improved version of 
our Wood Sorrel, Oxalis acetosella. The more I look at 
my beautiful old ' Jacquin ' Oxalis book, the more I feel 



I70 MORE POT-POURRI 

how much interesting greenhouse cultivation is to be had 
out of growing several of the best Oxalises. Almost all are 
natives of the Cape of Good Hope, which means easy 
greenhouse cultivation, and winter or early spring flower- 
ing. I shall certainly try to increase my stock, though 
one very seldom sees any of them catalogued. 

Tradescantias, that I used to grow in pots for London, 
I find equally useful here. The common green one is all 
but hardy, and flourishes outside by the greenhouse waU. 
This, picked and put into a flat glass, grows without roots 
in the water in the most graceful manner for weeks to- 
gether. A few bits of flower stuck in — such as, for instance, 
the Sparmatia africana, which continues to flower better 
if constantly picked down to where the fresh buds are 
forming — and you have a lovely winter flower arrange- 
ment at once : grace of form in the growing leaves, con- 
trast in the starry white flowers, colour in the brilUant 
yellow shot vrith red stamens. ' Munstead ' flower-glasses, 
as designed by Miss Jekyll (very cheap, and all kinds of 
useful shapes), are stUl to be got at Green & Nephews, 
Queen Victoria Street, London, E.G. 

The variegated gold-coloured Tradescantia and T. 
discolor are useful and pretty, and should never be allowed 
to die out or get shabby. They grow so easily at every 
joint that they are to greenhouses what certain weeds are 
to gardens. 

Mr. Smee in his ' My Garden ' recommends Forenia 
asiatica as a good stove plant. I have not yet got it, but 
mean to do so. 

January 13th. — A tall greenhouse grass called 
Cyperus laxus I find easy to grow. It is very pretty 
picked in winter and stuck into a bottle behind some 
short pieces of bright-coloured flowers. It looks refined, 
and if against or near white paint or a white waU its 
shadows are pretty, thrown by the lamp through the 



JANUARY 171 

long evenings. A greenhouse evergreen called Bhodo- 
dendron jasminiflorum is worth all trouble. It is in 
bloom now, sweet and graceful and not at all common. 
All these half-hardy hard-wooded plants I find rather 
difBcult to keep in health, but I am going to pay much 
more attention to their summer treatment. They want 
to go out for a month or two; but, to prevent their 
getting dry, they must be either sunk in cocoanut fibre, or 
surrounded by moss, or covered with straw. If sunk in 
the earth, worms are apt to get in. I think they are best 
xeplaced towards the middle of August into the cool 
house, where they can be watched. Sinking the small 
pot into a larger with some moss between is tlie best help of 
all. There is no fun in growing only the things everyone 
can grow, and nothing vexes me like seeing a plant which 
came quite healthy from a nurseryman, and in a year 
not only has not grown, but looks less well than when it 
first came. 

The Choisya ternata cut back in May is flowering 
splendidly. I wish I had room for eight pots of them 
instead of only two. There are several pots with E^- 
;phyUum truiicatum in full flower. The flowers are very 
pretty when seen close, and look well gathered and 
put into small glasses ; but the colour is a little metallic 
and magentary. Most greenhouses have them, but few 
people manage to flower them well. 

Ficus repens is a little, graceful, easily cultivated 
greenhouse climber, which hangs prettily in baskets or 
creeps along stones in a greenhouse bordei;. 

Every year we grow various Eucalyptuses from seed 
— some for putting out, and some for retaining in pots — 
especially the very sweet Eucalyptus citriodora, which is 
in the greenhouse now and is a great help, as it looks 
flourishing ; while the sweet Verbenas will have their 
winter rest, as they are deciduous, whatever one does — at 



172 MORE POT-POURRI 

least, so far as I have been able to manage up to now. 
But I am not sure that autumn cuttings, grown on in 
heat, might not remain growing at any rate for part of the 
winter. Life is always rather unbearable to my luxury- 
loving nature without Lemon-scented Verbena, and I miss 
it so in the finger-bowls at dinner, partly because those 
few leaves supply what one wants without much trouble. 
But a little bunch of Violets carefuUy arranged, and one 
Sweet Geraniumleaf, especially the Prince of Orange, make 
a combination that pleases everyone, and they are always 
at hand at this time of year. 

Jamuxry lith. — In the January number of a charming 
little periodical called ' The Sun-children's Budget," in- 
tended to teach young children botany easily and amus- 
ingly, there was an account and an illustration of a rare 
English wild flower, Pesonia corallina. The coloured print 
of it gives the idea that the red may not be of a very pretty 
hue ; but this would not matter, as the chief charm of the 
plant is the seed-pod. This sUghtly resembles in shape 
the seed-pod of that other charming wild flower the Iris 
fatidissima, also much less grown than it should be in 
semi-wild damp places, with its beautiful coral-red seed 
and strange-shaped, gaping capsule, so decorative in a 
vase in winter. The seed-covered branching growth of 
Montbretias mixes well with the twiggy flower-stems of the 
Statice (or Sea Lavender). S. latifolia is the best for 
winter decoration. To return to Pcsonia corallina. I have 
been able to get some plants from Mr. Thompson. He 
says it is a greedy feeder, that the seeds germinate slowly, 
and that the plant grown from seed is long in coming to its 
flowering-time. It flowers in May and June, and in the 
autumn the brown downy pods open along their inner 
side and display the seeds. It seems to be a most rare 
wild flower, growing on an island in the Severn. Sir 
"William Hooker says it is to be found at Blaize Castle, 



JANUARY 173 

near Bristol. Gerarde mentions it, and says that he found 
it in a rabbit warren at Southfleet in Kent. But in my 
edition the editor, Thomas Johnson, is sceptical, and 
adds severely : ' I have been told that our author himself 
planted that Peionie there, and afterwards seemed to find 
it there by accident ; and I do believe it was so, because 
none before or since have ever seen or heard of its growing 
wild in any part of this kingdom.' The origin of the 
botanical word ' Pseonia ' is from one Paeon, the physician 
of the Olympian gods, who used the leaves for healing, 
notably in the case of Pluto when he was wounded by 
Hercules. 

January IQth. — Last January someone sent me a 
cutting out of ' The Scotsman ' ; it was called ' Floral 
Notes from the West Coast of Eoss-shire.' The writer 
begins by showing himself extremely proud, as is only 
natural, of flowering his Lilium giganteum, nine feet high 
and with nineteen perfect blooms on it. He also praises, 
what I recommend to everybody, the biennial Michauxia 
campamcloides. He says everyone used to exclaim on 
seeing it, ' Oh ! what a charming white Lily ! ' The 
only way, as I stated before, is to grow it from seed. 
Watsonia marginata, according to him, is a lovely plant 
which in Scotland can be classed as a hardy perennial. 
It a good deal resembles the Sparaxis puhherrima ; in fact, 
much more so than it resembles the other Watsonias, 
which, he says, are shy bloomers. He speaks of another 
little favourite of mine, Linaria repens alba, and describes 
it — as I have always done — by saying it reminds him 
strongly of a Lily of the Valley. It is very easy to grow, 
and weU worth having. It is seldom found in flower 
lists, and he says he got his from Amos Perry, of Winch- 
more Hill, Herts. He mentions a pure white Iris 
hcsmpferi in full bloom, and below it a mixed mass of 
those new Tigridias {Awea and Lilacina grandifiora) and. 



174 MORE POT-POURRI 

brilliant blue Commelina. This mixture was hard to 
beat. Also the trimming round the base of the Michauxia, 
already described, consisted of a variety of Platycodons 
or Japanese balloon-plants, in different shades of blue, 
mixed with white Swainsonia. All these last-named, with 
the exception of the Swainsonia, came from Eoozen's. 
Then he says : ' I think I have told you all that I can 
remember as being particularly good in 1896.' I thought 
he gave such a creditable list that it might interest 
others who did not see 'The Scotsman' — good com- 
binations being so difficult to get in herbaceous and 
bulb gardens. He goes on to say : ' The most strik- 
ing flowers grown here in 1897 were a collection of 
Calochorti. I had tried them previously on a very 
small scale, with very small success ; but, knowing 
them to be quite a speciality of the Messrs. Wallace of 
Colchester, I corresponded with them, and they sent me 
a collection of Calochortus bulbs which they thought 
would suit, and suit they certainly did, for they gave 
us the very greatest pleasure and were the envy and 
admiration of everyone else who saw them.' He put his 
Calochorti into a border with all the best mixed make-up 
soils he could find. Planting them in November, they 
flowered the following June. The only trouble from 
which they suffered in their infancy was slugs. But slices 
of Potato and Tm'nip acted as counter-attractions, and the 
plague was stayed. He says : ' There were about seven 
varieties of the Calochorti, and I don't think that in their 
own Calif ornian forests they could have done much better. 
Anything more perfectly fascinating than a vaseful of Calo- 
chorti it would be impossible to grow in a British garden ; 
and they last such a long time in water.' He names, with- 
out describing J|them, two other favourites, the first of 
which I have, Dracocephalum argumense and Vancmiveria 
hexandra, ' both gems in their way.' He goes on ' For 



JANUARY 175 

those who are fond of rare Tulips I must not forget to 
recommend Tulvpa kaufmanniana, which I bloomed for the 
first time last spring, and which is quite equal in its way 
to Tulipa greigi and several other Tulip species which I 
have had from time to time from my afore-mentioned 
Dutch friends. After the Calochorti, perhaps a bed of 
Ixias from the same Haarlem firm was the next best 
thing my garden produced in 1897. I find Ixias the very 
easiest plants to grow, and this year they were all but as 
good as I have ever seen them in Italian gardens. So 
marvellously brilUant were they as to be quite dazzling 
to the eyes on a sunny day. They have only one fault, 
viz. that after flowering in June and ripening off they 
begin their next year's growth in October, and so their 
young leaves are rather apt to get punished by the black 
frosts of spring. The fact is, they suffer from insomnia, 
and so by rights they should be Hfted in July and made 
to sleep, in spite of themselves, on a dark shelf till 
planted again in March; but they do wonderfully well 
here even if left to take care of themselves.' It is quite 
a relief to hear this wonderfully successful amateur has 
difficulties with Lilies. All the same the description he 
gives of his own seems to me very like success. He 
speaks of the White Martagon (a Lily I am now trying to 
grow) and Lilium testacev/m as being great favourites 
with him. He was struck at Torridon by another plant 
which he says does so much better there than with him, 
viz. the scarlet and green Alstroemeria psittacina. The 
clumps were almost as strong as sheaves of oats. ' I have 
a new variety,' he writes, ' of this parrot flower — a deep 
crimson one — which was very good here at the end of 
November.' But if I go on I shall end by quoting the 
whole of this most interesting gardening letter. I hope 
the anonymous writer, who dates from Inverewe Poolewe, 
where the climate must be such as to make any gardener 



176 MORE POT-POURRI 

jealous, will forgive this long quotation extracted by a 
sincere admirer, though unknown fellow-gardener. 

Since writing the above I have been sent another 
letter from a January ' Scotsman ' of this year (1899) 
The opening sentence is so original and suggestive for 
anyone who has a garden capable of being easily extended 
that I quote it as it stands : ' My garden having become 
quite filled up, I have for the last few years taken to 
enclosing bits of rough ground inside the policies (or the 
domain, as they would call it in Ireland), and have gone 
somewhat enthusiastically into shrubs. I have now 
three of these small enclosures, and each one seems more 
or less to suit some particular class of plant. My 
" Fantasy ' is hard and gravelly, and suits the Genista 
and Citisus tribes very well. My " Eiviera " is very 
sunny and with good soil, and in it I grow my rarest 
exotics ; and " America," my latest creation, being more 
peaty, damp, and shady, like a wee bit of the back-woods, 
has been given over to the so-called American plants — 
Ehododendrons, Azaleas, Andromedas, Kalmias, Heaths, 
and, besides these. Magnolias, Bamboos, and very many 
other things; so many, indeed, that besides the sixty 
Azaleas which fill a bed in the centre, there are a hundred 
and seventy kinds of rare plants in it, gathered from 
most of the Temperate portions of our globe ; and, with one 
or two exceptions, I must say they appear very promis- 
ing, considering my little " America " was only colonised 
in April last.' He then details his triumphs : ' My 
greatest this summer was my flowering abundantly the 
rare and beautiful Chilian shrub the Crinodendron 
hookeri. I got it from Mr. Smith at Newry, and planted 
it in my " Eiviera " in the spring of 1897 ; it stood last 
winter well, and early in June it blossomed freely. We 
have but few shrubs with crimson flowers, the blooms of 
so many of them being either white or yellow. But the 



JANUARY 177 

Crinodendron is a grand exception. Its nearest neigh- 
bours on each side of it consist of plants of the Abutilon 
vitifolium and Carpentaria californica, both of which stood 
the winter ; and the former, from having come on so well, 
will be bound to flower next season. It has a great 
name now, especially in Ireland, for hardiness and for its 
beautiful blossoms. I possess in my " Eiviera " a number 
of things, of which I know little or nothing, with queer 
names, such as Coprosmas, CoUestemons, Aristotelias, 
Pittosporums, Eaphiolepis, Agalmas, Styrax, Indigoferas, 
etc. ; and, in spite of their names, I must say they look 
happy.' 

As from the other letter, I only extract what seems to 
me most interesting. ' I must now tell the contents of 
my Azalea bed, already referred to, all of which I got 
from M. Louis van Houtte of Ghent. There are sixty 
plants in sixty different varieties or species. There are 
single and double hardy Ghent Azaleas, and single Azalea 
mollis, and double hybrids of Mollis. They occupy 
the bed, with the exception of a clump of Phyllostachis 
viridi glaucescens and Phyllostachis mitis (Bamboos) 
in the centre, and I can truly say there was not a bad 
plant or a bad variety among the lot, and every one of 
them was full on arriving. If anyone wants a brilliant 
edging to a Ehododendron bed, let me commend to them 
Azaleas, Fritz Quihou and Gloria Mundi ; the former is 
of an extraordinarily dazzling crimson. Many people are 
of the opinion that the flowering season of Azaleas is 
short and soon over, but this would not happen if they 
got a good selection from M. van Houtte. I see from my 
diary that the first Azaleas expanded with me on May 18th, 
and they did not finish till July 24th, so that they lasted 
more than nine weeks. About the last to open were the 
pink and the crimson doubles. Bijou de Gendhruggen and 
Louis Aimi van Houtte, and the lovely species Sinensis 

N 



178 MORE POT-POURRI 

fiore alba only began to expand on July 16th. For those 
who like species, Azaleas Occidental/is and Arhorescens are 
both very interesting 

' I have a great love of Heaths, but have not got 
many of them. After considerable trouble I got some 
good plants of Erica a/rborea from Newry, which we had 
so much admired on the hillsides of Corsica. They seem 
to do very well here, and two of them bloomed this 
summer ; but whether they will grow into trees in my 
" Eiviera," as they do on the shores of the Mediterranean, 
I cannot yet teU. Erica australis, Erica mediterranea, 
and the Cornish Heath {E. vagans) are, like the Hydran- 
geas, deUghtful in late autumn, and so is the white 
Irish Dabcecia polifoUa, of which we can hardly have 
too much 

' I have, I think, merely alluded to the Genistas, and 
most people know, besides the common yellow, the White 
Portugal and the Yellow Spanish so-called Broom, which 
is, however, not really a Genista, but a Spartium, though 
it looks so like a Broom, and is very showy late in the 
season, when the Common Broom is over. The low- 
growing real Genista hispanica is a very useful little plant. 
Those who have not got the Broom with the crimson lip 
(G. andreaiia), nor the cream-coloured hybrid ((?. prcBcox), 
■should not fail to get them both, as they are an immense 
acquisition to our hardy flowering shrubs. 

' To-day I have been reminded of a nice plant of 
Eugenia iigni, a kind of Myrtle which has stood out 
some years against the terrace wall of my garden, and 
which bloomed and ripened its fruit so well that I have 
lately sent a sample of its fragrant berries to a friend in 
Switzerland. The scent and flavour remind one of both 
Strawberries and Pineapple with a slight mixture of Bog 
Myrtle.' I hope no one will confound this description of 
a Scotch garden with what I am able to do in di-y Surrey. 



JANUARY 179 

January 2Qth. — It is a constant disappointment to me 
that I cannot get the Tussilago fragrans called Winter 
Heliotrope, with its delicious fragrant spikes of flowers, to 
bloom here. It is quite hardy, and a weed supposed to 
grow anywhere, but I never get anything except a few 
leaves. This of course is in consequence of the dryness, 
the poorness of the soil, and the want of shade, as it has 
such a weedy growth I cannot put it into any good 
border. It is a distinct loss, not getting these flowers in 
mid-winter. I should recommend everyone who has a 
damp comer to try and grow them. They are not showy, 
but when picked their delicious scent will pervade a 
whole room. 

Eue, which is sometimes grown in kitchen gardens, 
though I think seldom used now in cookery, is hardly ever 
grown in shrubberies, where it makes in winter a charming 
feature. I find few people know that the French name for 
the plant is exactly the same as in English. Some people 
think the strong odour disagreeable, but I myself think it 
delicious. It is very useful to pick for winter bouquets, 
and the beautiful gray-blue of its foliage contrasts well 
vdth ordinary evergreens. If picked hard, that is as good 
as cutting it back, and only promotes its growth. It is 
very easy to grow — either from cuttings, divisions of the 
tufts, or seeds. Dryness, though making it look rather 
poor in summer, does it no harm for the next winter. 
Another plant that does admirably here in the light soil is 
Santolina (Lavender Cotton), and should always be grown 
for its pretty hoary foliage. It mixes well with some 
flowers, and is one of those plants that surprises one by 
its absence from any garden. 

The lower part of the stage in my larger greenhouse — 
I do not mean my little show one near the drawing-room 
— has been a veritable widow's cruse for me this winter. 
We have, constantly had Mushrooms from our bed covered 

m2 



i8o MORE POT-POURRI 

with its sheet of corrugated iron that I mentioned 
before. 

Lately we have had lots of Sutton's winter salad, 
Tarragon, Chives, etc., Cress — I do not like Mustard — 
Ehubarb, and Sea-kale. The Watercress in boxes, de- 
scribed before, has done admirably in the frame. My 
gardener is getting extremely clever at forcing things 
in this way through the winter. Early in this month, 
lunching with a neighbour, we had an excellent dish — 
the best I have ever seen — of forced green Asparagus. I 
think next year I must try and grow this too. 

In my opinion. Leeks are far too little used in general 
by English people. Most BngHsh cooks only use them 
as a flavouring for soup or boiled beef. They are reaUy 
excellent stewed, and very good raw, cut up with Beetroot, 
especially if not the large coarse kind recommended in 
most of the EngUsh catalogues. The Long Winter Leek 
{Poireau long d'Hiver de Paris) is quite distinct from all 
other kinds. It is very delicate, quite small, withstands 
the winter well, and is the only kind that produces those 
fine, very long, slender Leeks which are seen in bundles 
early in the year in the Central Market at Paris. In 
France, gardeners help Nature a little by earthing up 
the plants while they are growing. It can be chopped 
up fine with other salad herbs when Chive tops are not 
to be got unless they are forced. The Wild Leek 
(the Allium ampeloprasum) still grows, I believe, in 
parts of Wales, and is, as to form and tint, beautiful and 
decorative. It is, of course, well known as the Welsh 
emblem. 

January 27th. — I have on my flower table a shrubby 
Begonia in a pot with small, pointed, spotty leaves and 
hanging white flowers. They are easily reared from seed, 
and I do think they grow so beautifully and can be pruned 
into such lovely shapes ! They are far more beautiful 



JANUARY i8i 

than those great, flat, floppy, opulent, tuberous-rooted 
ones that flower in the summer. The parent of my plant 
(mossy green leaves, spotted silvery-white) must have 
been called B. alba picia. 

The white Arums which were laid on their side all the 
summer in the pots and weU dried are handsomer plants, 
and throwing up more flowers, than I have ever had before 
when they were planted out in summer. 

In this dry frosty weather we thin and prune out the 
shrubberies. Every plant is given a fair chance or else 
cut down. Taking all suckers from the Lilacs improves 
them immensely. How seldom it is done ! 

January 28J/i. — There is nothing like a date and a 
detailed account of the weather for accentuating a garden 
fact. We have had lately several days of frost, and 
we had to-day for luncheon so excellent a green vege- 
table that both gardener and cook had immediately 
to be interrogated as to details. The gardener said it 
was grown from Sutton's hardy-sprouting Kale called 
' Thousand-headed,' and I see in a note to the catalogue 
that ' the Borecoles thrive better in poor soil than most 
vegetables.' This naturally accounts for their being 
good-tasting here. In Vilmorin's list they are described 
as a cattle-feeding plant of large size, and bearing frost 
extremely weU. The cook informed me that she had cut 
the green of the leaf carefully off the stalk, and then 
cooked it exactly like Spinach. I give my cook the credit 
for cutting it off the stalk, as I had never suggested it. 
The result was most satisfactory. 

Ebceipts 

An excellent way to improve northern or frozen game, 
of which a great deal is now sold, is to lay the birds in a 
bath of milk for twenty-four hours, changing the milk 



1 82 MORE POT-POURRI 

twice. They are then roasted in the ordinary way and 
are excellent. 

A good way of cooking potatoes in winter is to steam 
them without their skins. Then melt some very good 
fresh butter in a small iron saucepan, and to this add 
a good lot of onions shredded very fine, and fry till a 
good mahogany-brown, not black. Put the potatoes in a 
very hot fireproof dish, and pour the hot butter and 
onions over them just before serving. 

Parsnips. — Everybody grows parsnips so far as I 
can make out, and hardly anyone ever eats them, except 
now and then with boiled pork and with salt cod on Good 
Friday. They are very good in England, as our mild 
winters enable us to leave them in the ground, which 
makes them much better than if they had been stored in 
sand or ashes. Here is a receipt for anyone who does 
not dislike parsnips and does like curry : BoU some fine 
parsnips whole, without cutting them, wash and brush 
them, and put into just enough boiling water to cover 
them. Simmer till tender and till the water is nearly 
evaporated — about one hour and a haU. Tear the 
parsnips into fine shreds with two forks. Sprinkle with 
cloves and a little dusted sugar. Have prepared apart a 
curry sauce. (See p. 252, ' Pot-Pourri.') Pour this over 
the parsnips, warm up together and serve with boiled Patna 
rice in a dish apart. 

Mutton Cutlets a la Russe.— Braise the cutlets. 
The sauce is made as follows : One stick of horse- 
radish scraped, four shallots, one bay-leaf, a little thyme, 
a little raw ham chopped, a little nutmeg, pepper and 
salt, one dessertspoonful of sugar, a tablespoonful of 
vinegar, the same quantity of sherry, and one ounce of 
butter. Simmer it over a slow fire for twenty minutes, 
then add a little white sauce, the yolks of two eggs, and 
a little cream. Stir over the fire until it begins to simmer ; 



JANUARY 183 

then pass it through a hair-sieve and spread on one side 
of the cutlets. Strew on a little Parmesan cheese, and 
brown the cutlets in the oven. Dish them up with a little 
good gravy. 

Open Apple Tart. — For this it is necessary to have 
a small round iron plate, flat with a very narrow rim, as 
used abroad. In the country you can have them made, 
and in London you can buy them at the good shops. 
They must not be made of tin. Line this with a puff-paste, 
and have a deep rim of paste all round. Prepare a compote 
of good rich apple, reduced till dry enough to mix in a 
small quantity of fresh butter. If at all lumpy the apple 
must first be passed through a sieve. Pour this on to 
the pastry, then peel and cut a quince into very thin, neat 
slices. Lay these on the apple in circles till you nearly 
reach the middle. Bake the ;pur&e in the oven till the 
pastry is cooked without burning. Serve very hot, or 
quite cold. 



i84 MORE POT-POURRI 



FEBBUABT 

Mistresses and servants —Difficulty of getting servants — Girls 
instead of boys — Eegistry Offices — The employments that do not 
take up characters — Early rising — Baron Humboldt — Coverings 
for larders — Blackbeetles — Children's nurses — Ignorance of 
young married ■women — Some natural history books — Forcing 
blossoming branches — Horticultural Show— Letter from San 
Moritz — Receipts. 

Last year in February I wrote a little article on 
mistresses and servants in the ' ComhiU Magazine.' It 
was called forth by the report of a case in the Divisional 
Court which seemed interesting at the time. The point at 
issue was whether a servant was entitled to give notice at 
any time within the first fortnight of her service, so as to 
enable her to leave at the end of the first month. The 
judgment did not settle the law of the case. My friends 
complained that I more or less put forth the difi&eulties 
of the present day with regard to mistresses and servants 
— especially the difficulty of the insufficient supply of 
servants — but that I suggested nothing new by way of a 
solution. As the question is one of very general interest, 
I think I will quote some part of the article, adding a 
few practical suggestions which have occurred to me 
since. 

Servants may, and often do, get into situations which 
turn out to be entirely different from what they have 
been led to expect. It may be even that they find 
themselves in a ' bad ' house ; or with a drunken mistress ; 



FEBRUARY 185 

or, what is still more common with a young girl, under 
a drunken cook, whom the mistress still believes in ; or 
under a foreign man-cook whose manners are disagree- 
able to her, but who gets very angry at her insisting on 
leaving when he wants to keep her. He then abuses her 
to the mistress, who is angry and put out at her wishing 
to go, and refuses to give her a character or pass on the 
one she received with her. All these and many similar 
cases are very hard on servants, who as a rule cannot 
afford to bring the case before the County Court Judge, 
and who would probably have Uttle to adduce as proof, even 
if they could ask for help and protection. We all suffer 
from the well-known faults of servants, but we are apt 
often to forget how much there is to be said on the other 
side. With us it is a case more or less of expense and 
inconvenience ; with them it is their actual Uvehhood. 

I shall, I believe, be accused of seeing the question 
too much from the servants' point of view. But have we 
not all from our youth up heard of the selfishness, the 
ingratitude, the wastefulness, the idleness of servants? 
And each generation pronounces them to be worse than 
they ever were before. I can remember the time when 
servants were first expected to be clean, but baths were 
not provided ; and to use the bath-room, which was done 
on the sly, was thought as great an impertinence as if 
they had asked for dessert every day after dinner. 

Customs change, but the big fact always remains the 
same — that the relation between master and servant is, 
and must always be, one of self-interest. Within limits, 
each tries to get the best of the bargain. One pays to 
command; the other receives to obey. The most self- 
denying Christian principles are of no avail. Carried to 
a logical conclusion, these principles would lead to the 
Christian mistress doing the work and the idle maid 
going to bed ; or the humble Christian servant declaring 



i86 MORE POT-POURRI 

that her work was a pleasure, and that she could not 
possibly take her wages. No, we are — on both sides — just 
as selfish as we dare be. And this self-interested bargain 
between masters and servants can only be settled on 
each individual case. The merits on each side must, 
according to one of the oldest of symbols, be placed in the 
scales ; and the noble, majestic, upright figure of Justice 
must hold out her arm and adjust the balance. 

We never get beyond this, and it is the only escape 
from the greatest of tyrannies — the power, either by 
gold or by force, of one human being over another. This 
power it will ever be the business of civilisation to rule 
and to diminish. This in our day is the business, first 
of the master of a house ; or, when he has the chance, of 
the County Court Judge. 

The temptation to give false or partially false charac- 
ters is a very great one to young and kind-hearted people. 
As in so many other cases, the public themselves are 
responsible for this — so many people like being deceived, 
and look upon truth as naked and barbaric. If a mistress 
gives an honest character, not all praise, in nine cases 
out of ten the servant fails to get the place. This state 
of things is unreasonable and ridiculous ; and if those 
about to engage a servant would ask for the chief failing 
of the person they are going to admit into their families, 
they would be better able to judge if the servant were 
likely to suit them or not. I remember many years ago 
being asked if I knew of a young nurse who was to have 
every good quality under the sun. She was to be strong, 
she was to ask for no holidays, she was never to leave 
the children to associate with the other servants, her 
temper was to be perfect, and so on. I wrote back that 
such a combination of good qualities as was expected for 
twenty pounds a year I had never yet met vrith in any 
young mother. A corresponding story is of a lady who 



FEBRUARY 187 

"wrote to a IVencli friend for a holiday tutor. He also 
was to be a lump of perfection. The Frenchwoman 
wrote back : ' Je ferai tout mon possible, mais si je 
trouve ton homme je I'^pouse.' 

A wit of fifty years ago used to say : ' I marry my wife 
for her money, I engage my footmen for their looks, as 
those are the only two things that can possibly be known 
beforehand.' As is common enough with a cynical 
remark, there is a good deal of truth in this. 

Now we come to what I consider to be one of the 
greatest changes that has occurred of late years, viz. 
the extreme facility for women getting employment with- 
out any character at all; that is to say, without any 
prying into the private conduct or personal characteristics 
of any individual. For example, aU shops and Stores, 
laundries and many other houses of business, engage 
their employes from their general appearance and the 
account they give of themselves. If they do not do their 
work, if they are insubordinate or unpunctual, they are 
dismissed on Saturday night— sometimes even without the 
usual week's notice and without any reason being assigned. 
This often appears a great hardship, but my point is that 
one of the chief objections to domestic service is that 
from the very start some sort of recommendation is 
required from someone who is supposed to be in a 
responsible position. I do not say this is not necessary, 
but I do think the custom might be considerably relaxed, 
with advantage to everybody. The usual characters 
given are often clever skating on very thin ice, and 
convey little real knowledge of the servant's faults or 
merits. Servants, like other people, have undoubtedly 
the defects of their virtues, and the wise way is to make 
up our minds what we are prepared to give up. If we go 
in for youth and good looks, we can scarcely hope for the 
qualities we may expect to find in age and ugliness. In 



i88 MORE POT-POURRI 

considering the merits of a situation, the more educated 
mind should not fail to look at it from the point of view 
of the servant. 

After leaving school, village as well as town, girls in a 
great number of cases are kept at home for a few years 
by their mothers. This gives them a love of freedom and 
amusement which singularly unfits them for the discipline 
of domestic service. It might be a possible bridging of 
the difficulty if it became usual for each family, according 
to its position, to keep fewer permanent servants and 
give, as a matter of course, more outside help, each of a 
speciahsed kind, to be got from girls who have lately left 
school and whose mothers would probably not at all 
object to their earning a little money and doing outside 
work — let us say, up to two o'clock. A girl who was a 
good needlewoman at school might be used once a week 
to repair linen or to do any other casual mending. I 
heard lately of a young housekeeper, tired of boys who 
did their work badly, having obtained excellent assistance 
from a schoolgirl of sixteen whom she trained to clean 
boots, knives, and lamps every morning. A beginning of 
this kind might, I think, greatly increase the much- 
needed supply, and above all create a means of direct 
communication between the poor and rich, which is still 
one of the great wants of the day in spite of all the 
charitable ladies. Some people would suggest that it 
might bring infection into the house ; but I really think 
that the risk is no greater than with everything else in 
London. There is always a proportion of risk — in the 
street, the ' Underground,' the omnibus, the Zoological 
Gardens, the bread, the meat, and above all the milk. 

A proof of the exceeding difficulty that many Have in 
getting employment is to be seen in the large numbers 
that exist of those terrible harpies called Eegistry Offices, 
the very maintenance of which depends on robbing the 



FEBRUARY 189 

poor girls who seek employment just at the moment they 
can least afford it. I could quote story on story of how 
six, seven, or eight shillings are taken from a country girl 
without the smallest return to herself ; indeed, in some 
cases they simply retain any written references which she 
may have given into their charge at their request. I 
believe an effort is being made to meet this difficulty by 
an association called ' The Guild of Eegistries,' and it 
certainly appears to be sadly wanted. 

A new agency has been lately started on rather 
different lines in Derby Street, Mayfair, and conducted 
by three house-stewards who have lived many years at 
the head of large households. Their idea is that they are 
perhaps better judges of the kind of servants applying for 
situations than those with less experience can be. Also 
they mean to get introductions to clergymen and the 
heads of schools all over the country, so as to help girls 
from villages who wish to go into service. The experi- 
ment seems to me an interesting one. 

Things must still be very wrong when the proportion 
of people who keep servants is so very small, and that of 
the poor population so very large, and yet we continually 
meet with the complaint that servants, especially under- 
servants, are so difficult to find. 

As we get older, we most of us step into shoes we 
should have vowed in our youth we never would put on, 
and each one in his generation sees some progress in 
civilisation which has ruined servants, and feels that good 
servants are far more rare and difficult to find than they 
were twenty, thirty, or (say) fifty years ago. Good 
servants — by which I mean unselfish, devoted human 
beings^are never likely to be a great glut in the market. 
But then are extra good, judicious, sensible masters and 
mistresses so very common ? 

Of all the deadly-dull subjects of conversation among 



I90 MORE POT-POURRI 

women, the deadliest is the abuse of servants ; and few 
seem to realise that it is practically self-condemnation, 
as in the long run bad servants mean bad mistresses, or 
at any rate mistresses with unsympathetic natures and 
without the talent to rule firmly but not tyrannically. 

When we think of servants' homes and training, and 
how their youth has been passed, especially in large 
towns, and how they are suddenly brought to face 
unaccustomed luxury and high feeding, and to live an 
exciting life of society among themselves, the ceaseless 
wonder to me always is that servants are as good as they 
are, and keep as ' straight ' as they do, more especially as 
they are very often set a bad example by the people 
they serve. In large households where there are many 
— and consequently idle — menservants, keeping up a high 
standard of moraUty is hopeless, or at least very difficult. 
The constant absence from home so common to-day is one 
of the great causes of unsatisfactory establishments. 

Under-servants in moderate-sized houses are the ones 
that excite my pity. It is always ' the girl ' who is to do 
this and that, the half-up and half -down drudge who has 
two or three people who think they have an absolute 
right over her ; or ' the boy ' who is to have all work and 
no play. It is on the same principle, I suppose, as the 
'fag' at school. 'I had to do it once, so now I will 
make someone else do the same.' Petty love of power 
and cruelty is so inherent in human nature ! As was re- 
counted some time ago in the ' Spectator,' ' I'll learn you 
to be a toad ! ' — the remark of a small urchin as, stone in 
hand, he eyed the offending reptile. 

One of the many causes of disappointment about 
servants is, that those people who treat them with kind- 
ness and consideration expect in return more gratitude 
than the circumstances admit. 

I remember a friend who had been good to a little 



FEBRUARY 191 

Swiss nurserymaid, and reproached her for leaving her 
to go to another situation with slightly higher wages. 
The girl put out her hands, shrugged her little shoulders, 
and said : ' Mon Dieu ! madame, que voulez-vous ? J'ai 
quitt6 ma mSre pour oela ! ' How true it was ! And not 
only her mother, but her green Swiss valley, with the 
beautiful sunlit mountains all round — to live in London 
with its smoke and its darkness ! My friend was con- 
vinced, and said no more. 

Servants stick very closely to what they consider their 
own duty, but I have never found servants object to any- 
thing if told of it beforehand. They do not like unexpected 
duties sprung upon them, and this is merely a safe rule 
for their own protection. But the mistress of a house must 
reserve to herself the right to ask a servant to do any- 
thing, and if the refusal is at all impertinent there is 
nothing for it but to part. There is reason, too, for this 
irritating attitude of servants declaring they will not do 
work they have not been engaged to do. The common- 
sense of the matter protects them from each other, as 
one masterful, selfish servant would get all her work 
done for her by another (as boys get their lessons done at 
school), if public opinion amongst themselves were not 
strongly against such a shuffling of duties. 

Servants almost always behave admirably when their 
common humanity is affected. At times of sorrow or joy, 
births and deaths, or any sudden change and loss of 
fortune, they are shaken out of their attitude of habitual 
selfishness. But as time goes on they resent the position 
being different from what they undertook when engaged, 
and think it better to make a change. 

One of the things that seems a remnant of other days, 
and strikes servants themselves as being particularly 
tyrannical, is being expected to attend family prayers, 
whether they like it or not, and that, too, in the midst of 



192 MORE POT-POURRI 

their morning work. But the attitude of mind and the 
ways and customs of servants are as incomprehensible to 
us as are those of the gipsies ; and to worry and hurry 
people who have not our views, whose laws are not ours, 
whose morality is not ours, whose customs are not ours, 
is a most useless tyranny, be it directed against gipsies 
or against servants. These manners and customs have 
grown up and are repeated by servants over and over 
again, in a way that they themselves often do not under- 
stand. One of their invariable rules, which is often 
commented on, is that servants — almost without excep- 
tion — ^refuse to eat game. It is generally supposed that 
this is because game does not cost their masters and 
mistresses actual money. This is so foolish a reason I 
cannot believe it to have been the origin of the objection. 
I feel it is far more hkely that in the days before rail- 
ways, when game travelled slowly, it was the fashion 
for everybody to eat high game ; but when it got past 
sending to table— unbought luxury though it was — the 
thrifty housekeeper suggested to the cook that the servants 
might have it. They had far better opportunity than the 
master upstairs of judging what state it was in, and I 
confess I am not surprised that as a body they declined 
to make their dinner off it. And so that mysterious thing 
— a custom — grew up for servants not to eat game. 

Servants, even the best and most devoted, will not 
' tell of each other.' It is useless to expect it ; just as 
useless as a master expecting boys to tell tales at a 
public school. And on the whole this is a good rule even 
for ourselves. If a system of tale-bearing could be estab- 
lished, it would make life unbearable for aU of us. 

An eternal complaint against servants is about early 
rising. I believe a number of people have no doubt 
that fifty or sixty years ago (which is, I fancy, the time 
when rather young people think old-fashioned servants 



FEBRUARY 193 

lived) they all got up early. We are certainly not the 
worst among the nations, but I do think that late rising 
amounts almost to a national fault. These things are 
greatly the result of climate ; but to insist on maids getting 
up in the dark, when there is very little to do, and to give 
the order that the kitchen fire is to be lit at 6.30, when 
the family do not breakfast till nine or half-past, seems 
to me almost tyrannical, though we have a perfect right 
to expect that the water should be hot and the breakfast 
ready at whatever time we choose to order it. !Por two 
months in the winter I always postpone the breakfast 
hour from eight to half -past, and I always use — for health 
reasons — cold water all the year round ; but I never have 
the slightest difficulty in getting breakfast punctually at 
eight, though I feel quite sure of one thing, that if I did 
not get up early no one else would. It seems a rehef to 
some people's consciences to insist on the early rising of 
others when they lie in bed late themselves. Servants 
are the first to remember that they can go to bed early 
when very often their masters and mistresses cannot. I 
think all of us shorten our living hours by taking more 
sleep than is at all necessary. As an example of the 
strength of some men, Mr. Max Miiller mentions that the 
great Baron Humboldt complained that as he got old he 
wanted more sleep — ' four hours at least. When I was 
young,' he continued, ' two hours of sleep was enough for 
me.' Mr. Max Miiller ventured to express his doubts, 
apologising for differing from him on any physiological 
fact. ' It is quite a mistake,' said Humboldt, ' though it 
is a very widely spread one, to thinlc that we want seven 
or eight hours' sleep. When I was your age I simply lay 
down on the sofa, turned down my lamp, and after two 
hours' sleep was as fresh as ever.' 

Of all servants that I have known in my life, the ones 
I have admired and respected most are the children's 

o 



194 MORE POT-POURRI 

nurses. The love and devotion they give to children not 
their own is extraordinary. The highest life which 
George Eliot could imagine for ' Eomola,' after the dis- 
appointment and failure of her own life, was to attend and 
minister to the children of others. Nurses will often 
refuse to leave children, even when it is for their interest 
to do so, knowing all the same, quite well, the time will 
come when the children wiU leave them, as an animal 
leaves its mother when it no longer wants her. I asked 
a nurse of this type once, when she was getting old, why 
she had never married. ' Oh, m'um,' she said, ' can't you 
guess? I had passed my hfe in the nursery amongst 
ladies and gentlemen; my own class who wished to 
marry me were distasteful to me, and I was too proud for 
anything else.' This last half-sentence, with its faint 
allusion to having once loved someone above her, touched 
me supremely. Servants must so often pass through a 
temptation of the kind — pride in those they love being such 
a great stimulus to the affection and constancy of women. 
I think it is very desirable that children should early come 
downstairs for their meals, aiid the nurse go to hers 
with the other servants. She does not very often like 
this ; but it is for her good, and much more for her own 
happiness, that she should not lose touch with her class 
and isolate herself on a slightly raised position, which, 
from the very nature of the circumstances, can only lead 
to unhappiness. 

Nothing is of more importance than to help servants 
with their money affairs. They are very ignorant and 
very improvident, though often very generous. The 
extravagant servant will listen to no reason about putting 
by for the ' rainy day,' and the best among themselves con- 
stantly help to support some of their own relations. If they 
are willing and the mistress is tactful, talking over their 
affairs is often of great use, especially in giving them an 



FEBRUARY 195 

idea what to do with their savings, if they have any ; as, like 
other classes, they constantly lose their money in unfor- 
tunate investments offering high interest, and sometimes 
are even attracted to do this by ' big ' names on the pro- 
spectus, often those of connections of their employers, 
which they look upon as a guarantee for security. 

Whenever depression comes upon me from associat- 
ing with those who are complaining about the ways and 
fashions of the time they live in and the ruin of their own 
generation, whether in the classes above or those below 
them, I fly to some of the books of the eighteenth century, 
and never fail to get the consolation I require. What 
has received the greatest abuse in my time is the Board 
School education and the destruction it has wrought 
amongst those who become domestic servants. I myself 
totally disbelieve this. First of all, those who go into the 
higher schools are very few in number, and nothing is so 
important in a free country as that all should have the 
power to rise, if their talents fit them for it. Here is 
a sentence of Oliver Goldsmith's, in one of his essays. 
In his time it was a higher class that met with his 
disapproval, but it reminds me of remarks that I am 
constantly hearing now about those who used to be 
called ' the uneducated ' : 

' Amidst the frivolous pursuits and pernicious dissipa- 
tions of the present age a respect for the qualities of the 
understanding still prevails, to such a degree that almost 
every individual pretends to have a taste for the Belles- 
Lettres. The spruce 'prentice sets up for a critic, and 
the puny beau piques himself on being a connoisseur. 
Without assigning causes for this universal presumption, 
we shall proceed to observe that if it was attended with 
no other inconvenience than that of exposing the pretender 
to the ridicule of those few who can sift his pretensions, 

o2 



196 MORE POT-POURRI 

it might be unnecessary to undeceive the public, or to 
endeavour at the reformation of innocent folly productive 
of no evil to the commonwealth.' 

Spending youth in school may prevent a young servant 
from knowing her duties as a servant so well as if she 
had been brought up at home ; but, on the other hand, 
being moderately well educated makes it far easier to 
learn, and I maintain that with a very little practical 
teaching the modem schoolgirl makes an excellent 
servant. But no one can have a well-ordered house on a 
small scale who is constantly leaving home or constantly 
changing servants. An indifferent servant who knows 
your ways is better than the good servant who is quite 
fresh to the work in your house. Leaving home often 
means a badly kept house, of that I am sure, unless many 
members of the family remain at home and give plenty of 
employment to everybody. Then perhaps the real mistress 
of the house may be very little missed. 

The fulness of life, the selfishness of Ufe, often prompt 
the modern housewife to throw up the sponge, to rush 
away to the idleness of the hotel or the lodging ; but it is 
a cowardly wish — a wish, except in real bad health, to be 
ashamed of. Our troubles and sorrows, be they real or 
imaginary, go v?ith us, and our only usefulness is at home. 
Here is a poem written by one of that brave trio, the 
Bronte sisters — Ellis BeU (Emily Bronte) — which, if not 
so subtle as Lionel Tennyson's ' Sympathy,' has a strong 
ring about it — that hand-shake in life's way which helps 
so many : 

SYMPATHY 

There should be no despair for you 

While nightly stars are burning, 
While evening pours its silent dew. 

And sunshine gilds the morning. 



FEBRUAR,Y 197 

There should be no despair, though tears 

May flow down like a river. 
Are not the beat beloved of years 

Around your heart for ever ? 

They weep, you weep ; it must be so : 

Winds sigh as you are sighing. 
And winter sheds its grief in snow 

Where autumn leaves are lying. 

Yet these revive, and from their fate 

Your fate cannot be parted. 
Then journey on, if not elate, 

Still never broken-hearted ! 

I am told by young married women that so very 
much attention has been given to cooking of late that 
most girls of the leisured classes now know something 
about it, or at any rate turn to books or go to some school 
of cookery to learn ; but that they are quite ignorant about 
training servants in other work, especially inexperienced 
girls who have done more schooling than cleaning in their 
childhood, and who think anyone can be a housemaid. 
There is excellent instruction on many points in that 
book I named before, ' How to be Happy though Married.' 
It dwells, however, rather on management of husband and 
house than actually on teaching the servants their duties. 
A really well-housemaided room requires but very rarely 
that terrible turning-out — when everything is upside down 
for a day, and things are mislaid, and some things are 
never found again — ^which is the terror of all masters 
and mistresses. Two things are essential in a well-kept 
house, and unfortunately they war against each other ; 
one is continually having plenty of open windows, and 
the other is a prevention of any accumulation of dust. 
This can only be fought by continual wiping and dusting. 
When the mistress of a house is looking through cup- 
boards and larders, and insisting that they should be well 



198 MORE POT-POURRI 

aired, tte servant's view is that then ' so much dust gets 
in.' And yet by a ' cussedness ' peculiar to themselves they 
constantly leave ice-safes open, which of course — to act 
properly — should be kept tightly closed, and never opened 
at aU except for the minute when things are taken out or 
put in. When the ice is melted they should always be 
carefully cleaned out. The following is, I consider, a 
good way of keeping things from dust in a larder without 
shutting the windows : Instead of the usual perforated 
tin covers, which get rusty and shabby and cannot be 
cleaned, I have neat covers of all sizes (made at home) 
of rather thick zinc wire, and then I cover these with 
clean butter-muslin, which can be renewed or washed 
clirectly it gets dirty. They should have a tvristed zinc 
wire handle at the top, to lift the cover on and off quite 
easily. The principle is the same as the outdoor covers 
for keeping off spring frost on young plants, recommended 
in my former book. 

The real fault of all the houses I go into to-day, my own 
included, though less so than some, is that they are far 
too full. Things are sure to accumulate. Avoid rubbish, 
frills and valances, draperies and bows, and all the 
terrible devices of the modern upholsterer. They all mean 
•dust and dirt in a very short time, especially in London, 
and a labour to keep clean — which in fact no one carries 
out, and which is only very temporarily rectified by the 
spring cleaning once a year. I have a Ibrench domestic 
book which I think fascinating and instructive, just 
because it is French, and much less shovTy and more 
primitive than English books of the same kind. It is in 
two volumes, is called 'Maison Eustique des Dames,' 
and is by Madame Millet Eobinet. It has had an immense 
sale in Prance, and all the httle details of household life 
seem more dignified and less tiresome when read in 
excellent French. 



FEBRUARY 199 

I will translate one receipt for the destruction of flies 
that seems to me good, and I wish I had known of it 
when travelling abroad in hot weather and staying in small 
hotels : ' Half fill a tumbler with soapy water. Cut a slice 
of bread half an inch thick ; cover the under side with 
honey, sugar, jam— anything that attracts flies. Cut a 
small hole in the middle, larger at the top than the bottom ; 
fix the piece of bread in the top of the tumbler. The flies 
erawl in after the sweet jam, and are quietly suffocated.' 
The book abounds in useful hints of all kinds. 

In my youth tea-leaves were always used for sweeping 
carpets. Then came the idea that they stained and in- 
jured the colour of Ught carpets. This is to be rectified 
by rinsing the tea-leaves well in cold water and wringing 
them out before they are used. There is no magic in the 
tea — it is the damp substance of the leaves that gathers 
the dust. There is an excellent thing now sold, called 
' Carpet Soap,' which really revives the colour of dirty rugs 
and carpets. To sweep without using something moist 
merely diffuses dirt. Covering a broom with a wet cloth 
is the best way of cleaning under beds, wardrobes, etc. — 
anything to prevent the dust flying. 

If every room is taken in turn and extra cleaned once 
a week, the necessity for the complete ' turning-out ' is 
obviated. Most people will say, ' Everyone knows that ' ; 
and yet it is astonishing how one has to remember to tell 
the same things, over and over again, to each fresh young 
servant that comes. And one often lives a long life 
without knowing most commonplace things oneself. I 
never knew till the other day that black-leading firebrick 
destroyed all its qualities for radiating heat and made it 
like iron. It ought never to be black-leaded at all. 

Tin jugs are excellent for hot water, but they must 
be cleaned inside with, sand-paper, or they rust and spoil 

It is almost despairing how even excellent and 



200 MORE POT-POURRI 

experienced servants forget that no crockery can or mil 
stand boiling water being poured into it suddenly, espe- 
cially in cold weather; the quick expansion makes all 
glass and china fly. But the same thing goes on over 
and over again in every household, from expensive dishes 
or dairy-pans to servants' jugs and tumblers, and partly 
one is oneself to blame for not having explained the 
simple fact to each new girl who comes. 

In the chapter on Furnishing in my first book I re- 
commended that young people should go to sales instead 
of buying rubbish at wholesale furniture warehouses. 
Commenting on this, the excellent and amusing writer 
of ' Pages from a Private Diary ' reproves me and says : 
' Why drive good taste into a mere fashion, and so quad- 
ruple the price of pretty things for those who can appre- 
ciate them ? ' This was not my intention, though I admit 
it may be a result of my advice. But I only wish some- 
one had given me the hint when I was young. However, 
if it does improve taste, and if it does raise the price of 
pretty things, surely one's sympathies in such matters are 
rather with those who have to sell the things they value 
than with those who can afford to buy them. My one 
object, both in this book and the last, is to give everyone 
— so far as I can — anything I know or have learnt in 
a long life. And in writing the first book, under the 
impression that it would be an absolute failure, I used to 
console myself by saying : ' Well, if it helps ten people 
just a little, that makes it worth while.' 

Old Sir Thomas Browne, in his quaint and self- 
opinionative way, puts pretty strongly what I feel : ' It 
is an honorable object to see the reasons of other men 
wear our Liveries, and their borrowed understandings do 
homage to the bounty of ours ; it is the cheapest way of 
beneficence, and, like the natural charity of the Sun, 
illuminates another without obscuring itself. To be 



FEBRUARY 201 

reserved and caitiff in this part of goodness is the sordid- 
est piece of covetousness, and more contemptible than 
pecuniary Avarice.' 

February 2nd. — I have been reading lately two fasci- 
nating books on natural history by George D. Leslie the 
painter — one is called ' Letters to Marco ' and the other 
' Eiverside Letters ' — descriptions of his own home on the 
river. The little illustrations have a great deal of artistic 
individuality, and are to me, though slight, very superior 
to the ordinary photographic reproductions. His descrip- 
tion of cultivating the difficult ' Iris Susiana ' is so good 
that I think I will copy it : 

' As ill-luck would have it, I missed the first burst into 
bloom of an Iris Susiana to which I had been looking 
forward with great eagerness. This Iris is very difficult 
to manage in our fickle climate. It is six years since it 
bloomed with me, then it did so in the open garden ; but I 
have never succeeded in repeating this triumph in the 
open air, and this is the first success after many failures 
under glass. This Iris is in its native land (Levant) 
generally covered with snow during the short sharp 
winter, and makes its extremely rapid growth during the 
short spring which foUows; after blooming, it endures 
the long, baking drought of summer, which ripens the 
tuberous roots thoroughly. Of course in our country 
such an arrangement in the open ground can hardly be 
expected, and though when planted in the open the tubers 
thrive and grow amazingly they make in our damp 
autumns far too early a start, throwing up a number of 
strong green blades, which are almost always doomed to 
destruction by the last frosts of winter without showing 
the least sign of bloom. The books say that they require 
some protection such as a hand-light in the winter, but I 
have tried it over and over again without the slightest 
success. In my little greenhouse, however, I think I have 



202 MORE POT-POURRI 

mastered the difficulties of its culture at last. My method 
is to defer planting untU very late in the autumn. I put 
the tubers into rather a small pot of nearly pure river 
sand. This pot I place inside another larger one, and 
plug the space between the pots with dry moss. I place 
the pots on a shelf in the sunniest part of the greenhouse, 
and give no water at all until some time after Christmas. 
Strange to say, the green shoots begin to show before the 
plants have received a drop of water. I give the water 
very liberally at first, but in great moderation as the plant 
shoots into growth. I let it have aU the sun that shines, 
and if the frosts are very severe at any time I take the 
pots into my studio whilst the extreme cold lasts. This 
year my treatment has been quite successful, and the plant 
burst into bloom on the dth of April.' 

This receipt wiU be extremely interesting to many 
gardeners, and especially those — and they are not few — 
who are striving to produce flowering Irises from January 
to August. 

I beUeve I mentioned before Mrs. Brightwen's ' Guide 
to the Study of Botany.' I should recommend every 
amateur gardener to get it. It is a clear, cheap, popular 
book, and any gro^vn-up person or child who wishes to 
understand the rudiments of the mysteries of botany 
could not do better than have this book as a companion. 

Through the year, books on natural history and 
gardening must be our constant companions to be any 
real good. We must verify for ourselves what the book 
teUs us. This greatly increases the interest of life in the 
country and no one is ever dull or bored who can learn 
about plants and insects. I know, alas ! that to those who 
really love to dwell in towns it is no use speaking of such 
things. The poetry of life is never to be seen by them 
out of the streets ; and children brought up in large towns 
rarely acquire a love of the country, I think. I remember 



FEBRUARY 203 

•when we were children, a friend who came from London 
to see us used to tell us she could not say her prayers in 
the country — it was so dreadfully still ! Fancy missing to 
that extent the city's noise, the rattle of the cabs down the 
street, or the measured tread of feet along the pavement ! 
It is lucky perhaps that what we are used to is what we 
hke best. 

A collector of old books objected to my great praise 
of ' Les Eoses ' by Redouts. He says : ' I do not attach 
the same value to it that you do, and have never found 
it of much use, as nearly all the Eoses are hybrids and 
varieties many of which have passed away.' I was 
no doubt mistaken, but my impression was that the 
lovely illustrations represent in many instances the wild 
Eoses of the world, which have ceased to be cultivated, but 
which could easily be produced again from seed by those 
who took the trouble. This, I believe, Mr. Paul is doing. 
I think, as I said before, that in a soil where Eoses grow 
easily a collection as large as possible of these same wild 
Eoses would be exceedingly interesting. My correspond- 
ent goes on to describe a book — which I had never seen — 
that treats of all the wild Eoses of the world. He says : 
' You should get a coloured copy of Lindley's " Mono- 
graph of Eoses," 1819. It is an excellent book, both as to 
plates and descriptions, and, though not common, is cheap. 
You can see them all at Kew. As you do not mention it, 
I fancy you cannot have the true York and Lancaster- 
Shakespeare's — a very different plant from the one with 
the splash petals. This difference is so well described in a 
page of Canon Ellacombe's endlessly interesting " Glou- 
cestershire Garden " that I give it to you : 

' " A second favourite double or semi-double Eose is the 
York and Lancaster, of which there are two kinds ; one a 
very old Eose in which the petals are sometimes white and 
sometimes pink, and sometimes white and pink in the same 



204 MORE POT-POURRI 

flower. This is without a doubt the ' roses damasked, red 
and white ' — the rose ' nor red nor white, had stolen of 
both ' — of Shakespeare, and it is the B. versicolor of the 
old botanical writers. In the other sort the petals are a 
rich crimson flaked with white ; it is a very handsome 
Eose, comparatively modern, and is the Bosa muiidi of 
the 'Botanical Magazine' 1794."' I have lately seen a 
double Bosa lucida, a great improvement on the single 
one ; also a double white Bosa rttgosa. 

Since writing the above I have succeeded in pro- 
curing through my Frankfort friend a coloured copy of 
' Eosarum Monographia ' by John Lindley (London, 
]820). On the title-page is this nice little motto : 

E guadagnar, se si potr^, quel dono, 
Che stato detto n' &, che Bose sono. 

The letterpress is far more interesting and instructive, 
but the actual artistic treatment of the plates is less 
beautiful and deUcate than Eedout6's. 

FebrtMry 9th. — Where people suffer much from the 
birds eating out buds, as I do, I strongly recommend pick- 
ing some of the branches of Prunus pissardi when in bud, 
and sticking them into Japanese wedges or into ordinary 
glass vases. This, in so far as house decoration is con- 
cerned, defeats the bullfinches, and the buds come out very 
well in the room. This is the same with all the early- 
flowering blossoms. The pink Almond and Pyrus 
japonica are far more lovely flowered in water in a warm 
room than left on the trees exposed to the cold nights and 
the nipping east wind. 

February 10th. — On this day last year I went to one 
of the Drill Hall Horticultural Shows, and was especially 
delighted with Amygdalus davidiaota ; it is one of the 
earliest of the flowering shrubs. I immediately bought a 
plant, and on my return this year I found it in full flower, 



FEBRUARY 205 

every branch wreathed with the lovely delicate white 
flowers. I only wish I had bought three or four plants 
instead of one. I shall certainly do so next autumn. The 
branches I ventured to cut have lasted over ten days in 
the room in water, and those left on the plant have 
turned brown from the frosty nights. 

I went to a neighbour to-day and found the house 
filled with pots of Genista prmcox. They came from 
Waterer's, and a more charming effect in a large room I 
never saw. The plant was beautifully grown and one 
mass of pale lemon-coloured bloom — sweet-smelUng, too. 
I have long had it outside, and it does very well ; but 
it seems difi&cult to strike, though I think it could be 
managed just before it is in fuU bloom. I expect what I 
saw was grown from seed, but it is not in Thompson's list. 

February 20th. — I returned home to-day after staying 
some little time in London. Apart from other reasons, it 
is worth going away for the joy of returning. While in 
London I again went to the Drill Hall Show, on the 14th, 
some few days later than last year. Nothing struck me 
so much this year as the Amygdalus davidiana did the 
year before ; but it was an especially good show of flowers 
for so early in the season. Year by year the Cyclamens 
grow larger and finer in colour, but I do not think they 
are plants that have been greatly improved by increased 
cultivation and Brobdingnagian size. I prefer the pretty, 
little, old, sweet-smelling types. Pans full of miniature 
Daffodils were very attractive, and Messrs. Hill & Co. of 
Lower Edmonton had a lovely and most uncommon collec- 
tion of greenhouse Perns. Nephrodium memhranifoUum 
and &nAspidmm struck me particularly, from the charm 
of their growth. The fashionable, little, bright pink Begonia 
Gloire de Lorraine was in large quantities and most 
effective. The lovely Iris reticulata was also exhibited. 

The London streets were more than ever full of 



2o6 MORE POT-POURRI 

beautiful flowers, none beating the showy branches of the 
Mimosa, Acacia dealbata, from the South of France. 

I found at home that the Crocuses had made much 
progress, and the Dafifodils, instead of only showing 
green spears, are all now in bud. The complete stillness 
is so delicious to me ! 

How sweet, how passing sweet, is solitude 1 
But grant me still a friend in my retreat, 
Whom I may whisper, ' Solitude is sweet.' 

That is what the young feel. The old can do without 
companionship. 

My little conservatory looked bright and full of bloom. 
Last year I had a lot of Daffodils in pans, and they did 
very well and forced easily. This year I have Hyacinths ; 
but though they were not very good bulbs— some being 
successful, and some failures — still they look well and 
picturesque in the open pans : far prettier than in pots. 
I have one little Oriental slop-basin filled with the bright 
blue Scillas, which is very effective ; and the Freesias are 
always most satisfactory. Mr. Sydenham recommends 
buying them each year ; but I think, cheap as they are, 
that must be advice rather for the seller than for the buyer, 
as with us, treated as recommended before, they improve 
and increase, and, when there is so much to buy, that is 
what I call satisfactory. The common LachenaHas do 
the same. The Lachonalia aurca is more difficult to 
increase. LachenaUas do not require so much baking 
and drying as the Freesias do, and should be kept in half- 
shade in a frame after the leaves die down, and not quite 
dry. Early re-potting in July is desirable for both. 

To make variety in colour, and because they are such 
useful flowers for picking — their duration in water being 
almost endless— I have several pots of the Orchid 
Dendrohium mobile, and one fine spike^ of Odontoghssum 



FEBRUARY 207 

alexcmdrcB in full bloom. My large, old-fashioned, sweet- 
smelling white Azalea, which has been so faithful a 
friend for many years, has failed this year — either from 
mere fatigue of being forced, or from being over-dried and 
pot-bound last summer, which I think more likely. I 
have a young plant of the same which is now in full 
flower — Azalea indica alba it is called in the catalogues. 
But often other varieties are sent out under the same 
name which have no scent at all, and are consequently 
much less worth growing in a small greenhouse. My 
old plant had the most delicious, delicate, and yet 
powerful perfume. We have now broken it up and 
re-potted small pieces, with the hope that they may grow 
again. The large pots of Imantophyllums are looking 
glorious. They are rather handsomer varieties, both in 
size and colour, than the usual ones. I got them two or 
three years ago from Veitch, who has specially improved 
these most useful and showy of winter-flowering plants. 
A small shrubby plant of the bright yellow Coronilla 
gives another spot of bright colour by the blue-green 
of the sweet-leaved Eucalyptus. We have brought the 
forcing of the Polygonatum multiflorum (Solomon's Seal) 
to most useful perfection ; and, put back in a reserve bed 
after flowering, it is ready to force again after a year or 
two. It is the easiest and most effective of the hardy 
plants to bring on in a greenhouse. 

February 22nd. — I brought back with me from 
Ireland last year several plants of the Iris stylosa. The 
white one has flowered, but not the blue ones, though 
these were put in two situations — some in good rich soil, 
and some in poor ground. These latter perhaps may 
flower later. One of the reasons why Irises should be so 
much cultivated is that they have the merit, which can 
never be too much appreciated, of flowering admirably in 
water if picked in bud. A flower can hardly claim a 



2o8 MORE POT-POURRI 

greater merit for domestic purposes, and for the same 
reason they are well adapted for travelling. 

Febniary 23rd. — A treat has come for all of us 
amateur gardeners this month in the publication of a 
long looked-f or gardening book by Miss JekyU, charmingly 
illustrated from photographs of her own. But, good as are 
these reproductions, in my opinion they can never compare 
with woodcuts or steel engravings, and they give but a faint 
idea of the unusual charm and beauty of her self-created 
garden. Her book is most truly called 'Wood and 
Garden,' and is a never-ending lesson of how to lay out 
a piece of ground by using its natural advantages instead 
of hopelessly destroying them by clearing the ground to 
make a garden. In this case there can be no imitation, 
as, without the copse-covered piece of ground which she 
selected, no one could produce the same sort of garden. 
Nature must have had her way first. But the charm of 
the combination of Nature and Art as carried out by Miss 
JekyU is very great. We always open these books at the 
month we are in, and she says : ' There is always in 
February some one day at least when one smells the yet 
distant, coming summer.' Such a day has been ours 
to-day, and I enjoyed it doubly in consequence of having 
so lately returned from London. And the forwardness of 
the spring — it really is more forward even than last year — 
makes one enjoy it more. Though everything is growing 
so fast, it is quite agitating for the gardener, giving the 
feehng that all the work is behindhand. I am told that 
in my first book many thought I recommended that 
things should be done too soon ; but in my experience 
human nature rather tends to reversing the proverb, and 
acts on the principle of ' Never do to-day what can be 
done to-morrow.' And in all things about a garden, 
except when Jack Frost is to be feared, it is best to be 
early rather than late. 



FEBRUARY 209 

My January-sown Green Peas are coming up very well, 
but they would not survive except for the pea-wire cover- 
ings, as the sparrows would nip out the hearts. The black 
cotton strung about the Prurms pissardi has answered. 
I have far more bloom than I have ever had before. 

As I rush about the garden, and see how the Daffies 
grow an inch each day in such weather, in spite of very 
cold nights, and though I have the usual endless 
' Martharish ' bothers of life inside the house, I can 
indeed say with Thomson : 

I care not, Fortune, what you me deny ; 

You cannot rob me of free nature's grace ; 
You cannot shut the windows of the sky, 

Through which Aurora shows her bright'ning face ; 
You cannot bar my constant feet to trace 

The woods and lawns by living stream at eve. 
Let health my nerves and finer fibres brace, 

And I their toys to the great chUdreu leave. 

Of fancy, reason, virtue, nought can me bereave. 

To appreciate Miss Jekyll's book in a way to profit by 
it, one must read and re-read it. One more quotation I 
must make. In ' May ' she says : ' The blooming of the 
Cowshp is the signal for a search for the Morel, one of the 
best of the edible fungi. It grows in open woods, or where 
the undergrowth has not yet grown high, and frequently in 
old parks and pastures, near or under Elms. It is quite 
unlike any other fungus, shaped like a tall egg, with the 
pointed end upwards, on a short, hollow stalk, and 
looking something like a sponge. It has a delicate and 
excellent flavour, and is perfectly wholesome.' I have, 
alas ! spent nearly all my life, and I have never searched 
for the Morel ! Have you, dear reader ? 

Februa/ry 26th. — I have been to-day planting large 
quantities of the roots of the TropcBolum speciosum in 
various parts of the garden. These were given to me by 
a kind neighbour. He says the great secret (and he is 

p 



2IO MORE POT-POURRI 

very successful himself) is digging the holes quite four 
feet deep, filling them in with leaf-mould and the light 
earth, and planting the roots a foot below the surface, 
and then they have two feet of loose soil to work down 
into. I hope they may be successful ; I do hate being 
beaten. At least some must succeed, one would think, 
planted in five different situations. They have to be 
labelled with large white labels, as the great danger, if 
one's back is turned, is of their being dug up. 

Driving last year on this day, I find I noticed the 
Nettles were well up in the hedges and just ready for 
picking, and the catkins were hanging from the Hazel 
boughs. A Uttle Celandine on a moist bank opened its 
yellow star in the sun. I have never seen it cultivated 
in gardens, which — weed though it is — seems a pity, and 
J, think I shall try it in patches under some shrubs. No 
doubt it is rather its early appearance than its shining 
beauty that has made it so loved of the poets. "Words- 
worth describes it and its surroundings with grace and 
truth in the following well-known poem : 

Fansies, Lilies, Eing-cups, Daisies, 

Let them live upon their praises ; 

There's a flower that shall be mine, 

'Tis the little Celandine I 

Ere a leaf is on a bush. 

In the time before the thrush 

Has a thought about its nest, 

Thou wilt come with h.-ilf a call. 
Spreading out thy glossy breast. 

Like a careless prodigal ; 
Telling tales about the sun, 
When we've little warmth or none. 

Careless of thy neighbourhood. 

Thou dost show thy pleasant 
On the moor and in the wood. 

In the lane— there's not a place, 
Howsoever mean it be, 
But 'tis good enough for thee. 



FEBRUARY 211 

I picked to-day and ate with great relish my first 
DandeHon salad. I can recommend it again and again 
to salad lovers ; but it must be very carefully washed, as 
any grit entirely spoils it. Later on the leaves get tough 
and bitter. 

Februwry 27th. — The last few days have been very 
cold, but I have some most beautiful branches of Almond 
in full flower in the house. They were picked, as I have 
explained, whilst in bud, and put to expand in the green- 
house. This method defies the frosts and wind, and 
greatly prolongs the time of enjoying the blossoms. 

About this time last year I cut away another bed of 
Laurels, which we had not time to do in the autumn, and 
it has made a nice snug corner for some newly-bought 
flowering shrubs— Lilacs which I had not got, such as 
Dr. Lindley and Charles X., and some white ones; a 
double-flowering Cherry, which is such a beautiful thing 
(though I fear it will never do well here, as it likes a 
strong damp soil); a Cerasus, pseudo Cerasus, double 
crimson Peach, Hamamelis ja;ponica (which has died), 
Eucryphia pinnatifolia, and the before-mentioned Amyg- 
dalus davidiana alba. I have a great many Spiraeas in the 
garden, but never tiU now the Spircea confusa, which forces 
very well, and is a lovely thing. I have put it for the 
present with these new shrubs. I find it a distinct ad- 
vantage putting new things in one place, as then one sees 
how they do, and what spreads and flourishes, and what 
is only a dry stick and a label the following year. It is 
mysterious why some plants die. I bought two beautiful 
Tea-roses in pots which were planted outside and drawn 
through into the greenhouse — one, a Mardchal Niel ; the 
other, Niphetos. Both flourished equally well through the 
summer. The next spring, without any apparent reason, 
the Mar6chal Niel, having made its leaves, turned brown 
and died — very provoking, as in this way one loses a 

p2 



212 MORE POT-POURRI 

•whole year's growth. I think anyone who grows forced 
Tea-roses for picking will find they do far better and look 
more satisfactory in water if floated in large glass bowls 
than if only their stalks are in water. 

I received a letter to-day from the Engadine, describ- 
ing a phase of modern luxury which reads strangely to 
those who live quietly in country comers. My friend 
writes from San Moritz, and thus describes an episode 
in a fancy-dress ball : ' In the cotillon they had an 
enormous silver sledge smothered in the most gorgeously 
lovely flowers — Imantophyllums, Lilium speciosum, Lilies 
of the Valley with stalks eight inches long, White 
mac, and Prunus. And all these looked as if they had 
just been freshly gathered; yet the whole thing came 
from a flower-shop at Prankfurt-on-the-Main. I must say 
I never saw anything prettier, and in the sledge sat a 
lovely downy young English beauty, scattering bunches 
of flowers about, as they dragged her round the room. 
The whole thing seemed beautiful Fairyland up here in 
this world of ice and snow.' I suppose it is no more 
luxury for those who can afford it than my humble little 
greenhouse, which also costs money ; yet one cannot help 
feeUng sorry that these beautiful hot-house flowers 
should have been dragged up there for the wasteful 
enjoyment of one evening. 

Eeceipts 

Poulet a la Valencienne.— Cut a good fowl into 

pieces. Wipe it dry, but do not put it into water. Take a 
saucepan, put in a wineglassful of olive oil, and add two 
cloves of garlic. Be careful that it does not burn ; for if 
it does, it will turn bitter. Stir the garlic until it is fried. 
Put in the chicken. Keep stirring it about while it fries, 
then add a little salt, and continue to stir. Whenever a 



FEBRUARY 213 

sound of cracking is heard, stir it again. When the chicken 
is well browned, which will take from five to ten minutes, 
stirring constantly, put in chopped onions, three or four 
chopped red or green chillies, and stir about. If once 
the contents catch the pan, the dish is spoilt. Then add 
tomatoes divided into quarters, and parsley. Take 
three teacupfuls of well-washed rice and mix up well 
together. Then add hot stock, enough to cover over the 
whole. Let it boil once, then set aside to simmer till the 
rice becomes tender and done. The great art consists in 
having the rice turned out granular and separate, and not 
in a pudding state, which is sure to be the case if a cover 
is put over the dish, so that the steam is condensed. It 
should be served up in the casserole in which it is cooked. 
Bits of fish, sausage, and chicken livers may be added ; 
also a little saffron. 

Chasse. — Ingredients : one onion, six tomatoes, 
three potatoes, a slice of ham, some grated cheese, red 
pepper, very little allspice. Fry the sliced onion lightly 
in some lard and butter mixed. Add the tomatoes and 
ham, both cut into small pieces. When they are well 
browned, add some water and then the potatoes, having 
first cut them in dice shapes. Let aU cook until the 
potatoes are done ; then, just before serving, mix in grated 
cheese well flavoured with red pepper until the sauce is 
' ropy.' Have a very hot dish, pour the sauce on to it, and 
serve carefully poached eggs on the top. This makes a 
delightful breakfast dish. 

Water Souchet. — Take six flounders, fillet four, put 
the fillets into a saucepan. The carcasses and the others 
put into a stewpan with some stock, a bit of parsley 
and a little carrot, which boil for an hour. Strain, and 
shred some carrot, also parsley root and a few sprigs 
of parsley. Boil for ten minutes more. Put the fillets 
into the oven to cook. When the souchet is dished, 



214 MORE POT-POURRI 

put in the fillets, and serve with brown bread and butter, 
and lemons. 

Everything of the kind is now to be bought, but I 
think the following few receipts may turn out useful. In 
washing paint so many do not know how injm-ious is soda, 
or yellow soap or soft soap. 

FOF Washing White Paint.— Shred common yellow 
household soap, and boil it down in a saucepan with 
sufficient whitening to make it into a thick paste. Put it 
in a jar, and use a little on a rag when required. It wUl 
clean the paint perfectly, and will not turn it yellow. 
Never use soda for paint; it spoils it and marks it at 
once. 

Furniture Polish. — To clean, polish, and take marks 
out of furniture, ' Sanitas Eurniture PoHsh ' is excellent and 
not expensive ; but the following is an old receipt and very 
good : Equal quantities of methylated spirit, vinegar, and 
linseed oil. The bottle should be weU shaken before using, 
or the spirit remains on the top and will burn the polished 
surface of whatever it touches. 

For Polishing New Brown Boots and Shoes.— I am 
sure many people will agree with me as to the extreme 
ugliness of new brown shoes ; yet we all must have them 
new sometimes. An excellent way of correcting this ugly 
newness is to rub the leather three times in succession 
with vaseline. After that, clean them in the ordinary 
way with brown cream, and they will take the polish as if 
they were months old. 

To Remove Fruit Stains.— Soak the stain in a glass 
of water in which you have put ten to twelve drops of 
sulphuric acid. Then wash with clear water. 

To Prevent Lamp-wicks from Smoking.— Steep 
the wicks in very strong vinegar; then let them dry 
completely before they are used. 

A series of penny books published as the ' Domestic 



FEBRUARY 215 

Science Series ' is full of useful information. The only 
one I actually know, called ' Manual of Housewifery for 
Elementary Schools,' by Helena Head, to be bought at 
4 Princes Eoad, Liverpool, seems to me thoroughly 
practical. 

One thing I must copy out of Mrs. Eoundell's most 
excellent ' Practical Cookery Book,' more especially as it 
is not a cooking receipt, but a cure for one of the most 
distinct worries that affect nearly every house in England, 
more especially if keeping down in the spring is neglected 
■ — and yet how few servants do not neglect it till it has 
become a plague ! — I mean, blackbeetles. Mrs. Eoundell 
gives the following receipt, and we found it excellent in a 
new flat in London which swarmed with them : 

'To Destroy Blackbeetles.— Not long ago the 
kitchens and bakeries of the Fir Vale Union Work- 
house at Sheffield swarmed with blackbeetles, to such 
an extent that the Government Inspector feared the 
buildings would have to be pulled down. The insects 
even got into the soup and bread provided for the in- 
mates, in spite of all vigilance and every remedy. The 
Board of Guardians, in despair, consulted the curator of 
the Sheffield Museum— Mr. Howarth, P.Z.S.— and he 
invented a paste which in a short time completely freed 
the workhouse from blackbeetles. This " Union " cock- 
roach paste can be had in tins from Mr. Hewitt, chemist, 
66 Division Street, Sheffield. It never fails in its effect.' 

' Keating's Powder ' is also effectual if the beetles are 
swept up in the morning and destroyed. 



2i6 MORE POT-POURRI 



MABGH 

Confessions about diet — Cures for rheumatism — Effects of tea- drink- 
ing — Sparing animal life a bad reason for vegetarianism — The 
Berlin foot-race — Mrs. Crow in Edinburgh — Bagehot on luxury — 
A word about babies — German and English nurseries — Sir 
Eichard Thorne Thome on raw milk — The New Education- 
Difficulty of understanding young children — Gardening — 
Cooking. 

I FEEL at last the moment has come when I must make 
a confession. I am a non-meat-eater ! I know that this 
will probably entail the loss of the good opinion of my 
readers, and I should never have dreamt of bringing 
forward so personal a matter, had I not felt compelled 
to do so in consequence of the numbers of letters I 
have received in which the writers deplore their loss 
of health, their gout and rheumatism, and the general 
ailments that prevent their going into the garden, etc. 
This strikes me as unnatural and wrong. There is no 
reason at all, unless there be actual disease, that sickness 
should as a matter of course accompany old age any 
more than any other period of life. 

This chapter is not intended for the young or the 
healthy or the really sick, but for those chronic sufferers 
who are constantly appealing to the medical profession 
for ' something ' that will cure their aches and pains, 
their sleepless nights, their stiff joints, and their 
neuralgias, and who put all their faith in drugs which, 
even when they seem to do good, turn out to be 
palliatives, not cures — that is, in the case of constitu- 



MARCH 217 

tions where the ailments are the result of gout and 
rheumatism. 

Some years ago all these symptoms in various degrees 
were mine, and I fully expected that they would increase 
with age; but I was wrong — by gradual steps they all 
disappeared. Nothing of course makes the old young; 
but bad health, the chief dread of old age, I no longer 
have. I can work out in the garden with even greater 
impunity than I could have done twenty years ago. I 
take long journeys — say, of twenty-seven hours — without 
fatigue, and I sleep excellently. This all reads like an 
advertisement for a patent medicine, but it is nothing of 
the kind ; in fact, for years I have taken no medicine at all. 
But if I am asked to account for this improvement, in one 
word it is — piet. I have become an ardent advocate of 
non-meat-eating, but without any of those sentimental 
feelings about the killing of animals which many people 
have who yet continue to partake of ordinary food ; nor 
did it begin from the belief that meat is a frequent con- 
veyor of poisons. I left it off at first simply as an experi- 
ment. I believe that meat, especially if eaten daily — 
the small quantities ferment the other foods — is on the 
whole deleterious to the health of the human race, and 
simply poisonous to the gouty, the rheumatic, or the 
neuralgic. 

All through my lifetime there seems to have been 
the strongest belief everywhere in Europe, amongst all 
classes (especially those who are habitually over-fed), that 
if they feel weak or ansemic, or what is called ' below par,' 
therefore they must try and eat more, and cram them- 
selves with stimulating food, such as meat-Juices, beef- 
tea, or even raw beef, and — as with drugs or alcohol — for 
a time it often answers. The origin of this belief, no 
doubt, has come from the teaching of the medical profes- 
sion, only disputed now and then by a solitary member. 



2i8 MORE POT-POURRI 

Surely this system is nearly on the level, and only one 
degree less harmful, than yielding to the request of the 
poor drunkard, who wildly cries for more of the very 
poison that is killing him. The immediate relief is actual 
and visible ; the after-reaction in both cases being the 
cause of fresh suffering. 

My object as a propagandist in the cause of non-meat- 
eating is merely to give others my experience, with the 
ordinary human desire that they may try a cure which has 
been so beneficial to myself. When some years ago chronic 
rheumatism was gaining upon me, I resorted to the usual 
solaces of the well-to-do. I consulted doctors, I took 
drugs, I left off wine — which before the age of forty I had 
rarely taken, and after forty only in small quantities. I 
went to Aix-les-Bains. I got momentary reUef from all 
these cures, but on the whole the malady gained upon me, 
and I looked forward to a cripply old age with great dread, 
knowing full well that it would prevent my enjoying my 
favourite occupation of gardening. My family physician 
summed up the case with : ' Well, Mrs. Earle, at your 
age this rheumatism which has settled in the hips is 
extremely difficult of cure.' I repeated this to a veget- 
arian friend, who lent me a book called ' The Science of 
Healing,' by L. Kuehne, a German non-medical man who 
practises a strict vegetarian water-cure at Leipzig. In 
consequence of reading this book I undertook to try and 
cure myself. The results have been simply wonderful, 
and I find the kind of food I eat, now that I am used to 
it, entails no self-denial at all. I carried out the cure 
strictly for many months — almost as strictly as Kuehne 
recommends, only breaking his rule by a small amount of 
milk and butter, and I was greatly the better for it. I 
took absolutely no animal food, and neither cheese nor 
eggs. If ever I relapsed into ordinary diet, after a very 
little time the old pains re-asserted themselves. My 



MARCH 219 

friends declared I looked old and ugly, and most of my 
family thought the first illness would play the part of the 
legs in the epitaph : 

Two bad legs and a troublesome cough, 
But the legs it was that carried her off. 

My own faith in the matter only grew and grew, but 
it has taken four or five years for me to be absolutely free 
of pain, and even to this day I occasionally feel twinges, 
which I immediately treat by diminishing in quantity 
what I generally eat. The result is invariably satisfactory 
and unaccompanied by any feelings of weakness or fatigue. 
Last year I became the object of considerable jealousy to 
one of my friends, who could not understand why I had 
grown so much better. I, loth to encounter the anger 
of her numerous family by recommending my method, 
remarked — what I did not believe — that very likely my 
diet would not suit her. I am so tired of hearing that 
' One man's meat is another man's poison ' ! Seeing the 
marked improvement in me, and thinking the matter over 
after I had left, she telegraphed to her London doctor, 
saying: 'Who is the great authority in London at this 
moment on gout and rheumatism ? ' He wired, back : 
' Dr. Haig of Brook Street.' She accordingly went to 
him. When next we met, one of her first remarks was : 
' A most extraordinary thing has happened to me. I have 
been to a new doctor for my rheumatism, and his printed 
paper on diet is in all essentials what you practise, except 
that he orders more milk and cheese.' She handed me 
the leaflet, and from this I got to know Dr. Haig and his 
most interesting book, ' Uric Acid as a Factor in the 
Causation of Disease.' This book is rather medical for 
the ordinary public, who had better begin with his two- 
shilling book called ' Diet and Food considered in Eelation 
to Strength and Power of Endurance, Training and 



220 MORE POT-POURRI 

Athletics.' On Dr. Haig's recommendation I deserted 
the extreme strictness of the German cure, and I have 
undoubtedly felt stronger for taking more skimmed milk 
(separated would be better) and a little cheese, though 
whenever I am less well I go back to the Kuehne diet. 
It was the greatest satisfaction to me to find a man whose 
years of study and scientific investigations entirely 
corresponded with my own groping experiences. If any- 
body now ever asks me about the matter, I say : ' Bead 
Dr. Haig's books, and then consult him or not as you like.' 
His tables of diet are so severe that I am afraid they may 
tempt a great number of people to agree with the late 

Lord D , who, when sent a sample of sherry which 

was recommended to him as being essentially wholesome, 
wrote back that he found it so bitter and dry he much 
preferred the gout. 

Although it is rare to find a doctor who wiU recommend 
strict dieting in chronic cases, I think it is becoming 
equally rare for a doctor to make any objection if the 
patient himself proposes it. He will not risk offending 
a patient by not giving him medicines and by greatly 
reducing his food. One can hardly blame a doctor for 
this, and it brings us to the conclusion that the initiative 
in matters of diet and abstinence must come from the 
patients themselves. 

Not many people seemed to take any interest in the 
health allusions in my last book. Still I received the fol- 
lowing letter, which, in a chapter bound to be unpopular, 
the few who read it may find as interesting as I did : 

' I have been specially interested in your health 
chapter, for if there is one subject more than another 
which ought to be thrashed out by the lay mind it is 
health. On it depends to a great extent the future 
progress of mankind. As a rule, individuals lean to the 
idea that it is not a question for themselves to think on. 



MARCH 221 

They seem to imply that it is a question solely for the 
medical hierarchy. But these authorities are so hampered 
by the limitations engrained in them in their medical 
education that it is with difficulty any of them exercise 
a free mind on the subject. You have given examples, 
it is true, of some few; and I know a few more, both 
here and in America, who have broken away and have 
given full vent to their reasoning powers. All hail 
to them, but they want supporting. There is no doubt 
that if doctors were to take up the reforms honestly they 
would do good, inasmuch as there is a blind faith in them 
on the part of the majority of people. But when has a 
profession reformed itself ? All reforms come from out- 
side. 

' There are two great assumptions on which medicos act, 
and on which they impel their patients to act. The first 
is : that it is positively necessary under all circumstances 
to eat every day in order to live. Dr. Keith, whose book 
I have just seen before I got yours, is an exception to this ; 
and Dr. Dewey, in America, in his "New Gospel of 
Health " is another. They show clearly that not only is 
it not necessary, but under certain conditions of illness it 
is positively injurious to eat. I have seen, I am sorry 
to say, food violently forced down the throat of a patient 
by a medical man when Nature was evidently telling the 
patient that food was no good, but, on the contrary, was 
adding to the troubles. This is quite irrespective of what 
is suitable food and what is not. All I maintain is, that 
at times no food at all is required, for it is then only by 
the absence of food that Nature finds time to recuperate 
herself. The second assumption that the Faculty as a 
body insist on is : that meat is absolutely necessary for 
strength. Meat is no doubt a concentrated food, but 
concentrated foods are not necessarily nourishing. On 
the contrary, the waste that comes from them is most 



222 MORE POT-POURRI 

trying to all the organs of the body, which after a time 
break down entirely. There are heaps of foods which are 
natural foods, which easily assimilate, and which in their 
waste are not unduly trying. Then, no doubt, in meat 
there is decomposition always going on, which, when it is 
eaten by human beings, may produce fermentation lead- 
ing to serious diseases. Of course there are many other 
arguments against meat ; but as long as it is considered a 
positively necessary food, there is ho good using them. 
I find that with young people it is useless to preach 
against meat. They like it, they see everybody eating it, 
they are told that the Faculty consider it positively 
necessary, and, owing to their youth, they feel no ill-effects, 
except now and then a temporary derangement, which 
they attribute to something they don't like so much. The 
great thing with them is to urge abstemiousness and even 
at times total abstinence, and, when they feel ill, simple 
starvation. The day may come when they will find it 
best for themselves to give up meat. I only wish that 
I had been brought up to rely upon my own reason in 
dealing with illness. Half the ailments that mankind 
suffers from could be cured by Nature herself, if she were 
given time and were not forced. She is interfered with 
in every way by both doctor and patient. 

' Power has been usurped by the Faculty. Very few 
men can stand power; they get to be assertive and 
dogmatic, and eventually become tyrants.' 

So I hear of bad health here, sufferings there, and, 
what we used to say of old people when we were young, 
' cases of fifteen mortal maladies and yet Hving on to a 
good old age.' They live long because their constitutions 
are good ; they suffer much, in my opinion, because they 
eat what is not good for them, both as to quality and 
quantity, only adding to their ailments instead of diminish- 
ing them. The modern invalid always says : ' The 



MARCH 223 

doctor has ordered me to eat well,' and feels his conscience 
absolved. This reminds me of a ratlier good old story 
which a doctor told me, when I was a girl in Brussels, as 
having happened to himself. A bishop who was eating 
stuffed turkey with this doctor on Good Friday excused 
himself to a punctilious friend, who was shown into the 
dining-room by accident, saying : ' Le docteur me le 
commando, et moi je lui donne absolution.' But can one 
imagine anything more hopelessly exasperating for poor 
doctors, who have to make then- living, than to find that 
loss of patients is the result if they venture even to ask 
in chronic cases what people eat and drink? We all 
know how they knock off food in cases of serious illness, 
though even then I think they still allow far too much. 
During convalescence it is often desirable for the patient 
to eat anything that he can digest. 

I know it will be said that the next generation may 
suffer from the results of a low diet, as the doctors are 
perpetually telling us that we have all suffered from 
the port wine drinking and high living of our ancestors. 
Nothing but time can prove this. 

In my youth heaps of doctors, especially on the 
Continent, still believed in bleeding, particularly in fever 
cases. Now this is as unknown as if it had never been 
practised at all. Is this right or wrong ? 

I see even restaurants now advertise suppers which 
are not indigestible ! An interesting pandering to the 
growing faith that good health comes far before good 
feeding. 

I was asked the other day to give a lecture on the 
right spending of money. Oh ! what a fraud these 
appeals to my knowledge or wisdom make me feel ! I 
who have so little knowledge of figures that I cannot even 
keep my own accounts ! But most certainly, if I were to 
give a lecture, I should say to everyone, high and low ; 



224 MORE POT-POURRI 

' Spend far less in food and drink.' To the under-fed and 
poor : ' Live twice as well as you do, on what you have, by 
spending judiciously.' To the farmers : ' Grow more peas 
and beans for wholesome human food.' And to the seeds- 
man : ' Sell these food-producing seeds much cheaper, and 
put the price on to something else.' 

I have said nothing about the cheapness of the diet I 
recommend, as it is not cheap if it does not make you 
well. If it does, it is very satisfactory, I think, to spend 
so very Utile on food ; and eating so much less at each 
meal is so delightfully comfortable ! I could not have 
beUeved some years ago that it was possible to keep in 
excellent health on so little. 

In Dr. Haig's little book ' Diet and Food ' he holds out 
a kind of millennium where cooks might cease to exist, 
and he gives a table of food requiring scarcely any cook- 
ing, and which yet contains what he considers a su£6cient 
amount of albumen. This might prove extremely use- 
ful under exceptional circumstances. 

A reform I should much hke to see is that, when a 
doctor leaves a house at the end of an illness, he himself 
should burn his prescriptions ; and that it might be made 
penal for chemists to make them up except by a doctor's 
orders. Doctors frequently give strong remedies in severe 
cases, but they themselves would be the first to regret 
these remedies being taken again and again on the smallest 
provocation by the patient. The insane desire to kill pain 
and to gain relief by narcotics and strength by tonics 
which pervades our modern society, from the youngest to 
the oldest, is in my opinion very likely to act more dele- 
teriously on the constitution than the excesses of past 
generations. People become aware of the loss of health, 
but the mysterious ways in which remedies may have 
injured us are wrapped in as complete darkness as is the 
origin of most of the diseases from which all classes suffer. 



MARCH 225 

I wonder if other people have noticed, as I have done 
throughout my life, that the families where medicines are 
least in use are those of doctors themselves. This want 
of faith in drugs on their part was one of the first things 
which years ago opened my eyes. 

What strikes me is, how few people are really well ! 
And if they could put side by side the pleasure of eating 
food which is harmless, and the better health and strength 
this would bring, compared with the pleasure of eating 
large dinners and the feeling of the following morning 
thrown into the balance, I believe the bird-in-the-hand 
pleasure would lose most of its attractions. It has been a 
real surprise to me, though apparently doctors know it 
well, how vast a number of people would much rather be 
ill, or even die, than be convinced that the food they like 
does them harm. The young especially seem to think 
that one of the chief pleasures of life would be removed if 
they did not eat what they preferred, quite forgetting that 
fruit and sugar and many other good things are quite 
harmless — nay, beneficial — to the non-meat-eater. What 
we do daily soon ceases to be the penance that abstinence 
once a week was supposed to inflict. It may be said that 
• starving,' with many people, does not make them feel well. 
All I can say is, it is very seldom tried on the right 
lines ; at any rate, not for long enough time to give it a 
chance. 

It is curious how things repeat themselves. Sydney 
Smith says in one of his letters : ' All gentlemen and 
ladies eat too much. I made a calculation, and found I 
must have consumed some waggon-loads too much in the 
course of my life. Lock up the mouth, and you have 
gained the victory. I believe our friend Lady Morley 
has hit upon the right plan in dining modestly at two. 
When we are absorbed in side-dishes, and perplexed with 
variety of wines, she sits amongst us, lightly flirting with 

Q 



226 MORE POT-POURRI 

a potato, in full possession of her faculties and. at liberty 
to make the best use of them — a liberty, it must be owned, 
she does not neglect. For how agreeable she is ! I hka 
Lady Morley ; she is what I call good com;pany.' 

The really difficult part of practising any form of 
diet, especially if you have gained immensely by the 
results, is the irritation it causes to the people who 
surround you. I was told the other day that having 
mentioned in a letter the fact that I had become a 
vegetarian was more than enough to account for my 
receiving no answer. If any sufferers feel tempted to 
follow my example of a strict diet, I strongly recommend 
them to do all in their power to make it as unobtrusive a 
factor in family life as possible. It will also be found a 
great advantage to those who go out in Society to cheat ; 
by which I mean, take things on your plate as a ' bhnd,' 
though you have no intention of eating them. The sym- 
pathy expressed lest you should kiU yourself, and the 
terror lest your influence should prove the death of some- 
body else, make life a martyrdom for a very insufficient 
cause. 

I never realised till this year that there is consider- 
able danger in a sudden change of diet, especially in hot 
weather and to those who are most in need of it. One 
is always hearing of cases where abstention from meat 
answers for a few months, and then has to be given up 
because the patient finds himself less well, and attributes 
everything to his change of diet. Dr. Haig fully explains 
the reason for this. He may, of course, be wrong in his 
deductions ; if he is right, it should lead to great changes 
in diet in this country through the conversion of the 
medical profession. 

One of the great advantages of the non-sentimental 
over the sentimental vegetarian is that in case dislike of 
foods occurs, as it very commonly does, and with it a 



MARCH 227 

decided depression of the nervous system from the drop- 
ping of all stimulants, a slight return to ordinary diet tor a 
time may be beneficial. Anything is better than producing 
a nervous irritation against the diet. Patients at any 
rate are then able to realise for themselves whether it 
does them good or not, and are able to remember how 
they benefited at first from the cure and go back to it when 
they feel inclined. They must also remember that much 
that they suffer from is hereditary, and has to be con- 
tinually fought rather than cured. To attribute every 
ailment to the new diet, when people have lived on meat 
and stimulants all their lives, and had constant attacks of 
illness, is, to say the least of it, unreasonable. In the case 
of vegetarians Dr. Haig has told me that they often come 
to him insuflSciently nourished. It is specially easy for 
vegetarians to over-eat and yet be under-fed. 

I am the last to deny that many, and especially old 
people, have benefited from a purely meat diet (the 
' Salisbury Cure ') when very strictly carried out, though 
I never tried it myself. All that I feel, and I feel it 
strongly, is that health is more likely to be bettered by 
only taking food that clearly improves the blood than by 
depending for cure on alterative medicines and tonics 
which only relieve for a time. 

True wisdom always brings us back to the old rule 
that moderation in all things is the best guide for every- 
body. The fact has long been known with regard to 
alcohol ; but it has only lately been acknowledged that tea, 
coffee, and beef or chicken tea, are also stimulants and 
not food, and are injurious to the nervous system. Who 
would not have laughed, a few years ago, at the statement 
that tea-drinking in large quantities produces a form of 
delirium tremens ? And yet the illness is now quite re- 
cognised as existing among the under-fed who drink tea 
in excess. The craving for stimulants of some kind is 

<J2 



228 MORE POT-POURRI 

universal, especially when nourishment is insufficient 
This proves, I think, that what is most wished for is not 
always best for us. 

The law, and generally our own inclination, oblige us to 
leave the treatment of disease, once acquired, in the hands 
of doctors and surgeons, and this in spite of the many 
mistakes they make — often grievous mistakes, such as 
cutting people open and then merely sevring them up 
again because nothing is wrong, or leaving pieces of Hnt 
or even forceps inside after operations. Both these cases 
have come under my knowledge. Knowing of these 
things only depresses one and does no good. But the 
maintaining of health from babyhood upwards and the 
prevention of disease — for these, to my mind, all human 
beings are individually responsible both as regards them- 
selves and their children. The more the latest and most 
conflicting scientific theories on the subject are known by 
everybody the better. 

For all who are interested in the subject of non-meat- 
eating, much general information (cooking and other) is 
to be got from ' The Vegetarian,' a weekly penny news- 
paper. It is, of course, written from the sentimental 
point of view of the non-killing of animals, the health of 
man being considered as only secondary. Everyone with 
any understanding must have his feelings aroused by 
the sufferings of animals, whether caused by man or 
by each other. The killing of animals comes under 
a different category. Anyone who keeps cows knows 
well the sad order that has to go forth for the slaughter 
of the beautiful little buU-calf, as even the most fortu- 
nate farmer cannot expect to breed only cows. Is not 
all or nearly all our complicated civilised life directly 
or indirectly mixed up with the killing of animals ? No 
one can hate cruelty more than I do ; no one can wish 
more than I do that legislation should be applied to 



MARCH 229 

control and rule the cruelty of man. But the most tender- 
hearted of old maids has to shut her eyes to the fact that 
superfluous kittens and puppies are put out of the way ; 
and if we are told that the rats are devouring our beauti- 
ful black and white pigeons, the cruel rat-catcher is sent 
for to fight and kill the enemy, though, poor things ! 
Mr. and Mrs. Eat enjoyed their spring hfe and their 
young families quite as much as the pigeons. Can 
vegetarians keep their kitchens full of blackbeetles or 
their Eoses covered with green fly? Do they give 
over all their Peaches to the wasps, or their nuts to the 
mice? 

The wasteful redundancy of Nature involves the 
whole question in a cloud of difficulties, and to my mind 
not one of these is removed, nor is any Ught thrown on 
the subject by the sentimental view that we should give 
up eating meat, not for our own good, but with the idea 
of sparing animal hfe. 

Besides, such countless other products are dependent 
upon the kilhng of animals that, even if the whole world 
were non-meat-eating, hardly fewer animals than at present 
would be bred and slaughtered. 

I myself believe it has to be proved that people who do 
not eat meat are less strong than those who do. The 
subject is receiving much attention in Germany. Last 
year I saw in the newspapers that a man left money to 
biiild a school for poor children on condition that it was 
conducted on vegetarian principles. The trustees refused 
the bequest. On the other hand, last June a very in- 
teresting walking-match took place in Berlin which, the 
papers said, attracted the attention of the Minister of 
War. The course was over seventy English miles. There 
were twenty-two starters, amongst them eight vegetarians, 
and the distance had to be covered within eighteen hours. 
The interesting result was that the first six to arrive at 



230 MORE POT-POURRI 

the goal were vegetarians, the first finishing in fourteen 
and a quarter hours. The two other vegetarians 
missed their way and walked five miles more. All 
reached the goal in splendid condition. Not till an hour 
after the last vegetarian arrived did the first meat-eater 
appear, and he was then completely exhausted. He, 
moreover, was the only one, the others having dropped 
off after thirty-five miles. This does not look as if power 
of endurance were necessarily diminished by non-meat- 
eating, and a great many people who have tried non- 
stimulating food find, as I do, that their brains are 
immensely clearer, their capacity for work restored and 
increased, they are much less affected by changes of 
temperature, and their general powers of endurance are 
much greater than before. In short, my belief that 
wrong diet in some form or other is the cause of all the 
hundred and one complaints which are called by different 
names, and that they do not originate from external 
germs, is as great, and some will say of the same nature, 
as that of Mrs. Crow, the ghost-seer in the old story. 
This lady had unbounded faith that certain acts would 
make her invisible, and so went out into the streets of 
Edinburgh with nothing on and a prayer book in one 
hand. A policeman rushed at her with his cape. She 
was not disconcerted, but said : ' What, you see me ? Then 
I must have put the book into the wrong hand.' 

I have noticed before the fact of the extraordinary 
economy brought about by reduction in food, wine, etc. ; 
but this is not necessarily an argument in favour of a simple 
diet. The money people have must go somewhere ; and if 
they like meat and drink better than most things, but for the 
injury to the body it might as well go in that way as in 
any of the other luxuries of life which are not essentials. 
Much as I enjoy providing food for others, I now feel that 
it is anything but a true kindness to them. It is difficult 



MARCH 231 

to imagine tlie change that would come over civilisation 
if that most improbable of all miracles were to take place 
and the majority of people became non-meat-eaters. I 
have a note from one of Walter Bagehot's books which 
points out the evil of reduction in luxury. I am not 
political economist enough to know whether his view is 
generally accepted now; it is in contradiction to that 
of other teachers. He says : ' We must observe, what is 
incessantly forgotten, that it is not a Spartan and ascetic 
state of society which most generates saving. On the 
contrary, if a whole society has few wants there is little 
motive for saving. . . . Nothing is commoner than to read 
homilies on luxury. Without the multifarious accumula- 
tion of wants, which are called luxury, there would in such 
a state of society be far less saving than there is. And if 
it be good for the poor that capital should be saved, then 
the momentary luxury which causes that saving is good 
for the poor.' I spend in fruit and on the garden what I 
should have spent under ordinary circumstances in meat 
and wine, with certainly more enjoyment to myself and, 
perhaps, less waste. 

My nieces, I believe, look upon me as a kind of witch 
— meant no doubt as a subtle compliment — and, now that 
many are married and have babies, they say they want 
my opinion on the important question of how to manage 
them. I am very fond of babies and a great admirer 
even of large families, now so out of fashion. In a book 
lately published I read the other day of a bishop at the 
beginning of this century who wrote to his young married 
daughter : ' Go on, my dear Eliza, and never fear hurting 
your constitution by honest child-bearing, since, for one 
mother that grows thin with this work, there are five 
hundred old maids that grow thin for want of it.' As a 
matter of fact, I have seen very little of nurseries of late 
years, but I never travel in railway carriages with babies, 



232 MORE POT-POURRI 

or look into the village perambulators, without being 
shocked by the universal use of those terrible modern 
inventions, sold by every chemist throughout the land, 
called ' baby comforters or soothers.' I cannot imagine 
any child's digestion not being weakened and injured by 
them. The suction is exactly the same as vnth the real 
bottle, and the waste of saliva must be excessive ; so great 
that the flow must be much reduced when food is actually 
taken, and this of itself must begin the non-assimilation of 
food which modern children, especially those brought up 
by hand, suffer from so much. My objection applies to 
babies after they are three or four months old ; before that 
these ' comforters ' do not do much harm. But, the habit 
once acquired, few nurses or mothers have the courage to 
break it. 

Every doctor I have asked has corroborated my view 
on this subject. A thoroughly conscientious doctor ought, 
I think, to refuse to attend the children of the rich where 
such things are used. The mothers and nurses say : ' It is 
such a comfort to the child, and prevents its crying, which 
is so dangerous.' This is the modern receipt for every- 
thing ! Momentary relief and palliatives at the cost of 
eventual good ! "What makes babies cry is not only dyspep- 
sia and discomfort, but also spoiling; that is to say, respond- 
ing to that natural appeal of crying for what they want. 
Many a child that has been too much held in nurses' arms 
from its birth cries when it is laid down. That does ntft 
mean that it is bad for the child to lie down, for, if it is 
quite loosely dressed, this does it only good. It cries, as a 
dog whines, merely to express, in the only way that it can, 
what it wants ; and if taken up directly it cries, this teaches 
it, by the only way it can learn, to do it again next time. 

I saw some years ago a most intelligently managed 
baby; it was half German, half French. I was also 
much struck with the superior common-sense of many of 



MARCH 233 

the arrangements in the foreign nursery that I visited, and 
was told that they were the general custom in that part 
of the world. AU babies' cots from the very beginning are 
firm, never rooking — which must be better. And the little 
mattress is made of hard, firm horsehair, not wool. On the 
top of this is another mattress, made of strong linen, four or 
five inches thick, loosely filled with husks. The pillow is 
also loosely filled with the same material, viz. the husks 
of oats, well dried and cleaned of all dust. The husks can 
be got from a corn or forage merchant, and — to thoroughly 
clean them — they should be washed in water, left to dry 
for some days, then well shaken out in a thin muslin bag, 
and also well aired. The reasons for this kind of pillow 
are its cleanliness, and the fact that it is much cooler and 
wholesomer than either wool, down, or feathers. In 
Germany children sleep on a husk pillow till they are 
seven or eight years old, and later in cases of illness. The 
coolness of this pillow and mattress is particularly essential, 
because the babies are never held in the arms of mother 
or nurse except when they are being fed. This is an 
important factor in the nursery management, especially 
in houses without many servants, as it makes the nurse 
or mother so much freer to do all that she has to do. 
Small babies are far too much nursed as a rule in England ; 
a child is trained from the first by the monthly nurse to 
lie constantly on her knee, whereas abroad the first thing 
done from the very beginning is to train a baby to be 
perfectly content in its cot. And when the weather is fine 
and it goes out, it is never carried or wheeled about before 
it is seven or eight months old. It lies for hours in the 
open air as in a bed. It is very important that children 
of aU ages should sleep on a hard flat bed, and that 
mattresses should be re-made whenever they get hollow. 
I believe that neglect of this is the cause of many round 
shoulders and weak spines. A husk pillow (which can be 



234 MORE POT-POURRI 

made of dried and pounded bracken Fern if the husks of 
oats are not available) is also used for washing a baby, on 
a method which I think both safer and easier than our 
EngHsh way. There is a large plain deal table, three 
sides of which are surrounded by a rim as in our wooden 
washstands. On the right and left of this table is placed 
everything the nurse is likely to require for washing the 
baby. On a little table next to this big one is a basket 
with the clothes. In the middle of the large table is 
placed the above-mentioned pillow covered with a piece 
of mackintosh sheeting, over which is laid a large bath 
towel. On this is placed the little naked baby, and it is 
then the superior advantage of this system over the 
English one becomes apparent. No one can see it done 
without appreciating how much less experienced the 
mother or nurse need be, as both hands are left free to 
soap and sponge, and wipe and powder. After being 
soaped, the baby is dipped, as with us, into the bath and 
immediately laid back again on the pillow, where it looks 
like one of the little Christian ' bambinos ' in sugar 
or plaster which used to be sold in Italy at Christmas- 
time. 

The child is wrapped in the bath towel and dried. 
The mackintosh and towel are then removed, and the 
really difficult process of dressing a very young baby is 
safely and easily performed on the pillow. I saw it done 
by a young and inexperienced nurserymaid of nineteen, 
who certainly could never have been trusted to wash a 
baby as we do it in England, and I came away greatly 
impressed with the merits of the chaff pillow. 

A favourite trick practised by those who have charge 
of babies is to cover or nearly cover over their faces, so 
that the child breathes its own breath, which all educated 
people know is poisonous. "When you expostulate, the 
nurse says : ' It makes the child sleep better ' — ^which means 



MARCH 235 

the child is more or less asphyxiated by want of air. 
This excuse could be urged for anything, even for giving 
"what, when I was in Canada, I saw advertised every- 
where as ' Sirop calmant de Madame Winslow.' The 
vrretched stuff acquires a new dignity when translated 
into French ! Fresh air, night and day, is the great 
essential for health ; and, pretty as are babies' veils, I think 
the babies are far better without them. All the same I 
saw a lovely Uttle baby's hood last year, made in a close- 
fitting way, like an old-fashioned baby's cap, and over all 
was thrown a large square of net hemmed and run with 
three rows of baby satin ribbon. 

The public mind has been a good deal disturbed and 
exercised by the Bill, passed in '98, enabhng people who 
have ' conscientious objections ' to be absolved from having 
their children vaccinated. I should like to see all vac- 
cination voluntary, as it seems to me to be exceedingly 
likely that the last scientific word on the subject has not 
been said. But if it is really for the good of the com- 
munity that vaccination should be universally enforced, 
then the ' conscientious objector ' is a danger to the whole 
community, and should not be allowed to have his way. 
Anybody interested in this subject will find in the 
twenty-fourth volume of the ' Encyclopaedia Britannica ' 
(ninth edition) an exhaustive article on vaccination, which, 
the writer says, is ' the result of an independent and 
laborious research.' To me it was interesting and most 
instructive. The public now have such glorious chances 
of learning the truth, instead of living on false tradition ; 
but how few avaU themselves of them ! The statements 
at the end of the article about the epidemic of smallpox 
in 1870-71 are most curious, and certainly contradict 
many of the usual medical assertions. 

To return to the babies. Anxious young mothers vrith 
delicate infants are nowadays very apt to get hospital 



236 MORE POT-POURRI 

nurses to look after them. I am sure that is a mistake, 
and I have known two or three cases amongst my 
acquaintances where this was tried and answered ex- 
tremely badly. The hospital nurse is apt to be over- 
clever, and try far too many things, such as changing the 
foods unnecessarily, and using medicines much too freely. 
A baby wants ordinary animal care, warmth, regularity 
of treatment, and the people who look after it to have the 
courage that comes with love. It does not want remedies 
which check ailments one day and reproduce them 
the next day with renewed force. Why does it never 
strike the mother or nurse, who gives a child — with 
absolute courage — a harmful drug such as fluid mag- 
nesia, that they could try instead such harmless remedies 
as spoonfuls of orange-juice, or apples or prunes rubbed 
through a sieve ? A doctor told me the other day that a 
child brought up on fluid magnesia was bound to suffer 
from that troublesome if not dangerous ailment too well 
known in most modern nurseries, chronic constipation. 

If a child is very delicate, the mother nervous, and 
if no good experienced children's nurse is to be got, 
then I would recommend a monthly nurse ; though, of 
course, they too are sometimes difficult to get. There is 
an institution now started, called the Norland Institute, 
16 Holland Park Terrace, London, W., and the Principal 
will send all information if requested. It is for the 
training of ladies as children's nurses on Proebelian 
principles. I do not know much about it myself, but it 
appears to be useful both for employers and employed. 
So many women, though willing enough, are unfit for 
any employment through want of training, and many 
a young woman would be an excellent nurse for young 
children who could never make a good governess or school- 
teacher. 

Nursery arrangements are much cleaner now than 



MARCH 237 

they used to be. A well cared-for baby has its little 
gums wiped out every day with a soft rag, which is then 
burnt. This plan is safer than the soft little bit of sponge 
sold for the purpose, as sponges are difficult to keep per- 
fectly clean, even if well washed and dried. The following 
is the receipt for the mixture with which this should be 
done, and which makes the baby smack its lips : Mix 
one teaspoonful of powdered borax with two teaspoonfuls 
of cold water, and add three ounces of glycerine. Shake 
the bottle well, and the mixture is ready for use. In the 
case of a baby that has been neglected, and when the 
mouth has become really bad, it should be washed out 
with warm water several times a day after food. 

There is still a strong prejudice in England against 
boiling and sterilising milk ; but, in the face of the recent 
revelations as regards tuberculosis in cows, I trust this 
will become less and less. The German patents are to be 
got at all chemists'. Soxhlet's apparatus is one of the 
best, I believe, but new sterilisers are constantly being 
brought out ; and when once understood the process gives 
no more trouble than any other careful preparation of 
babies' food. To give children and invalids raw milk does 
seem a most cruel risk. I know many young people who 
say they would rather die than drink boiled milk. If 
they were brought up from babyhood on cooked milk, I 
am sure that this feeling would disappear. I copy the 
following extract on this subject of milk-sterilising from 
a lecture (published in the ' Journal of State Medicine,' 
January 1899) on ' The Administrative Control of Tubercu- 
losis,' by Sir Eichard Thome Thome, Medical Officer of 
the Local Government Board, as it interests and concerns 
far more people than the mere management and health of 
cows, although this is the chief point of Sir Eichard's 
clear and admirable lecture. The extract may seem 
rather long, but I feel compelled to copy it, as it may 



238 MORE POT-POURRI 

in that way reach homes where the more scientific 
periodical may never have been heard of : ' It is a some- 
what curious fact that the inhabitants of the United 
Kingdom stand almost alone amongst civilised nations in 
the habitual use of uncooked milk as food. This is the 
more to be regretted because, by reason of this practice, 
human life, especially that of infancy and childhood, is 
being sacrificed on a scale which, to use the mildest term, 
is altogether deplorable. That this should be so is also 
altogether unreasonable in the face of the certain know- 
ledge we possess, and which is set forth in the report of 
the Eoyal Commission of 1890 in the following words : 
" The most deadly tubercular material can be rendered 
absolutely innocuous, in so far as any spreading of 
infective disease is concerned, by the action of a tempera- 
ture at which water boils." And again : "It is suf&cient 
to state that boiUng, for an instant even, renders the 
tubercle baciUus absolutely innocuous." Milk exposed 
to a temperature of 100° C, whether by boiling or other 
form of cooking, will not convey tuberculosis ; and milk 
sterilised, as by placing it over the fire in one saucepan, 
which stands in an outer one filled with water, until it 
has reached a temperature of some 80° C. to 90° C, i.e. 
176° P., or perhaps even less, is an equally innocuous 
food. And yet; whilst we have this knowledge at our 
disposal, and whilst we know still further that some 
7,000 persons, mostly infants, are annually killed in 
England and Wales by that form of tuberculosis called 
" labis mesenterica," besides some thousands more by 
tubercular meningitis — a cause of tuberculous death 
which is on the increase under three months of age, is 
undergoing no diminution at the next three months of life, 
and which exhibits substantial increase during young 
adult life — and yet we find people apparently intelligent, 
including even heads of young families, who discard the 



MARCH 239 

remedy on the mere ground of " taste." And what is still 
more striking and reprehensible is the fact that in many 
of our hospitals, established for the cure of disease, no 
effort is made to avoid the chance of imparting disease, 
merely because effort would cause some inconvenience. 
The avoidance of all that is septic in connection with 
surgical operations stands in striking contrast with the 
courting of infection in the wards by the use of uncooked 
milk. But even the taste which attaches to boiled milk, 
and to which infants become at once habituated, may 
be largely avoided if the milk boiled after the morning 
delivery be stored in the cool for use in the afternoon, 
and if the afternoon milk be similarly set aside until next 
morning. 

' But some allege another objection. It is maintained 
that cooked milk is less nutritious than raw milk. I 
admit that there is an element of truth in this. Milk is 
a fluid having a biological character; it is living fluid, 
and this character is destroyed by boiling or sterilisation. 
iVom the purely scientific point of view it is most desir- 
able to bear this in mind, but in its practical aspect it is 
well to remember that the slight diminution in nutritive 
value which cooking brings about in milk cannot be 
named side by side with the immense gain in freedom 
from the risk of infectious disease and death which is 
thus insured. . . .' He ends by saying : 

' The need for educating the public of this country as 
to the risks involved in the use of raw cows' milk, and as 
to the simple methods by which these risks can be 
effectually avoided, is a pressing one, and it can only be 
met by enhsting the active services of my own profession. 
Our influence in such matters is necessarily considerable ; 
our responsibility is correspondingly a heavy one.' 

I should like to know the opinion of the Faculty on the 
dangers of butter, cream, and cheese, which I have never 



240 MORE POT-POURRI 

seen mentioned. Butter, however, is now often made from 
boiled millt. 

Here is a receipt for boiling milk for butter or keep- 
ing : Let the milk stand for twelve hours in an open tin, 
then put it on the stove, and let it just bubble round the 
edges. Take it off, let it stand another twelve hours, and 
then make the butter. 

The popular impression is that separated milk is useless 
as human food. Yet I believe it is now acknowledged by- 
scientific investigators that the nourishing and life-giving 
properties of milk remain when the cream is taken off, the 
cream containing nothing but the fat. Of course, to 
children and many people fat is desirable, but can be 
obtained in many other ways. 

The newspapers of the last few months have been so 
full of this most interesting question of tuberculosis in 
cows that it seems almost superfluous to allude to it. 
Yet nurseries are so under the power of women who, 
however good and devoted, are uneducated, and therefore 
bigoted in their opinions, that it is as well to caution 
young mothers not to yield to what might seem to them 
the greater experience of the nurse. I did it myself, 
having as my nurse one of the best of women, who had 
brought up several babies. All the same, I think now I 
was wrong ; but in my youth the rules of health were in the 
dark ages compared to what they are now. To-day every 
young mother should learn for herself what is the last and 
the most approved theory as regards food and fresh air. On 
one subject science and Nature go hand in hand, and lead 
more and more to the belief that the only really right 
nourishment for a baby is what Nature provides. In the 
' upper classes ' it has become in my Hfe-time rarer and 
rarer for young mothers to nurse their own children. 
When I was young the only women who were supposed 
to be good wet-nurses were the Irish; and why was 



MARCH 241 

this ? Because they were poorly fed ; they came, too, of 
generations of poor feeders, and before the days when 
they could obtain either meat or tea except in very small 
quantities. In Prance and Germany the wet-nurses 
always came from the poor districts, where as a rule meat- 
eating was unknown ; and of late years these women are 
more and more difficult to procure, though this may, of 
eom'se, be from many reasons other than Nature failing 
to supply what is required. I beheve that if young 
mothers were greatly to reduce their ordinary food during 
the time before the birth of their children, they would not 
only greatly reduce the common suffering which Nature 
has had to resort to, so as to lessen the food taken, but 
the chances of the baby's health after its birth would be 
infinitely greater. A large heavy baby often loses weight 
after its birth, especially when the mother cannot give it 
natural nourishment. This should not be ; they should 
increase in weight during the first month. I was always 
under the impression when young that a delicate mother, 
and especially one threatened with consumption, ought on 
no account to nurse her child. In the lecture from which 
I quoted before. Sir Eichard Thorne Thorne says that 
' there is no steriUsing apparatus that can give results 
comparable with those provided by Nature in the healthy 
female breast, and that tuberculosis in the human milk 
glands is a disease so rare that it hardly needs con- 
sideration in connection with the feeding of infants. At 
the child-bearing age it is all but unknown.' I extract this 
because I think it will help many a young mother to fight 
the opposition of perhaps both her husband and the doctor, 
who may be thinking, as is natural, more of what they 
consider good for her than for the child. 

I heard yesterday in our village an excellent lecture 
by a young mother on what she called the ' New Educa- 
tion.' I agreed with every word, and had myself tried 

E 



242 MORE POT-POURRI 

to carry it out many years ago. It is sad that what she 
propounded has made so little way these five-and-twenty 
or thirty years. Her recommendations were much on the 
lines of a book first published in 1868, called ' Essays on 
Educational Eeformers,' by Eobert Herbert Quick. I 
only did not mention this book before, much as it 
interested me years ago, and much as I admire it still, 
because I thought it was out of print and not to be got. 
Now it is republished by Longmans, Green & Co. in a 
cheap edition (25. 3d.) and arranged on a clearer plan. 
Get it, you young mothers, and read it. It is the most 
comprehensive and illuminating book that I have ever 
seen on the all-important subject. It is far better known 
in America than in England. The chapter on Pestalozzi 
is perhaps especially excellent. Nature should be helped 
by art, and art should come to the assistance of Nature. 
After showing how children can only learn in their own 
way he ends with ' Of course I do not mean there is no 
education for children, however young ; but the school is 
the mother's knee, and the lessons learnt there are other 
and more valuable than object lessons.' He goes on 
to say : ' The mother is qualified, and qualified by the 
Creator Himself, to become the principal agent in the 
development of her child . . . and what is demanded of 
her is a thinking love. . . .' Is it not almost fearful how 
many children grow up without any thinking love at aU ? 
Is there anything more pathetic in three lines than these 
— by Blake — or more terribly true ? Think of all the 
half-castes all over the world, not to mention our own 

cities ! 

The Angel that presided o'er my birth 

Said, ' Little creature, formed of joy and mirth, 

Go, live without the help of anything on earth.' 

It is the non-understanding of children makes the 
difficulty. The following poem by Mrs. Deamer will give 



MARCH 243 

a stab, I think, to many a young mother. Maternal love 
often wants cultivating, and does not come naturally to 
many young women; of this I am sure. And though 
they learn many things, they seem to think being a good 
mother comes by instinct or not at all. This is not true 
Besides, the apparently devoted mother may want quite 
as much training and self-cultivation as the indifferent 
one ; perhaps more so, as she takes more responsibility on 
herself, and so, possibly, deprives the child of being 
looked after by someone else. 

I tWnk the world is really sad, 

I can do nothing but annoy ; 
For little boys are all born bad, 

And I am born a little boy. 

It doesn't matter what the game, 
Whether it's Indians, trains, or ball ; 

I always know I am to blame. 
If I amuse myself at all. 

I said one day on mother's knee : 

' If you would send us right away 
To foreign lands across the sea, 

Tou wouldn't see us every day. 

' We shouldn't worry any more 
In those strange lands with queer new toys 

But here we stamp, and play, and war, 
And wear your life out with our noise. 

' The savages would never mind, 

And you'd be glad to have us go 
There; nobody would be unkind, 

For you dislike your children so.' 

Then mother turned and looked, quite red, 
I do not think she could have heard ; 

She put me off her knee instead 
Of answering nie a single word. 

B2 



244 MORE POT-POURRI 

She went, and did not even nod. 

What had I said that could annoy ? 
Mothers are really very odd 

If you are born a little boy. 

I could go on quoting for ever from Mr. Quick's book, 
but why should I when it is within reach of aU ? His 
last sentence is : ' The duty of each generation is to gather 
up the inheritance from the past, and then to serve the 
present and prepare better things for the future.' How 
can there be a better motto for young or old ? 

The Kindergarten system, when well carried out, seems 
to be the best method of teaching children under seven, 
and a Kindergarten child has more thoughtful independ- 
ence than other children. I once tried to make a boy 
of five clean his teeth, but he was rebeUious that night, 
and in an unguarded moment I said he must. So after 
standing some time beside him I said : ' I do not know 
how long you mean to keep me here, but I can't give in 
now I have said you must.' The child answered quite 
calmly : ' Well, it is odd, mother, you should say that, as 
it is exactly what I feel.' And then we came in some way 
to an amiable compromise which hurt no one's dignity. 
It is so idiotic in the management of children to give 
direct orders which they do not understand and which 
appear to them as unreasonable tyranny. A mother had 
better command by example, not by authority. Subjection 
and blind obedience are aU wrong, and result from what 
is quite a mistaken idea of the evolution of the universe. 
' Every human being has a claim to a judicious develop- 
ment of his faculties by those to whom the care of his 
infancy is confided.' 

Teeth cleaning of children used to be thought rather 
an unnecessary tyranny. It has assumed different pro- 
portions now, and it ought to be seen to in all schools. 
A great many people will be surprised to learn that 



MARCH 245 

often would-be recruits are rejected on the ground of 
bad teeth. It is no better with officers, and cases are 
common in which candidates after an expensive prepara- 
tion have failed to pass their 'medical' on account of 
deficient dentures. In an examination of 10,000 of 
British children of an average age of twelve years, eighty- 
five per cent, required operative treatment. One more 
example that the ordinary food of the present day is not 
conducive to the health of the human race. Improve- 
ment in teeth and gums is one of the most marked and 
satisfactory symptoms experienced by people who take to 
the health-giving food recommended by Dr. Haig. 

I find among my old letters this anecdote of a young 
mother trying to give religious instruction to a delicate 

little girl of two and a half : ' M is a sweetly good, 

dear child and in better spirits than usual, which is a good 
sign. I was trying the other day to convey some notion 
of a Creator to her mind. She started with pure Atheism 
— that nobody made the trees, etc. Having made her 
understand her clothes must be made, and dinner pre- 
pared by somebody, she seemed to accept the notion of 
" God " with a long-drawn " Oh ! " And when I said He 
was a long way off, in the beautiful sky, she said quickly : 
" What a bore ! " I asked : " Why ? " She answered : " Me 
like to see God, mamma." In short, she caught up some 
notion of a good fellow who made everything that was 
good and beautiful, and has told me ever since : " Dod 
made the trees, the sun and the moon, and all the pitty 
things." So I flatter myself she is on the fair road to 
Deism. Christianity must dawn upon her mind by very 
slow degrees, poor little infant I But she is so loving and 
gentle she is no bad exemplification of "Of such is the 
Kingdom of Heaven," and I am very dotingly fond of her.' 
I think if this fond mother had given the love without 
attempting the instruction, merely teaching the child to 



246 MORE POT-POURRI 

admire and notice and love, she would have been more 
sensibly employed in fitting it for its future life than in 
trying to explain and expound Deism or Christianity at so 
early an age. 

I knew, years ago, two conscientious joung jparents, 
both equally religious, who stayed away themselves from 
going to church, which they loved, in order, as they said, 
to break the temper of their little daughter, aged two and 
a half. As I said before, temper which is inborn and 
hereditary should never be fought, but always treated 
with love, gentleness, and tenderness, as an illness. 
Temper cannot be conquered except from within. To 
help the child to help itself, that is the only method. I 
do not reaUy believe that punishment ever does any good 
to old or young, though seH-mortification helps many 
natures. Prisons rank vsdth mad-houses ; they exist to 
protect the public, not to benefit the individuals who 
suffer punishment. The only way with children is 
gradually to get them to see what most helps themselves. 
I admit that to understand the way children's minds work 
is a humiliatingly difiScult task, and one cannot be too 
careful not to shock their feelings by either laughing at 
them or letting them see any contempt for their most 
natural ignorance. There is a well-known story of a, 
little girl who, having been naughty, was told to ask 
forgiveness of the Almighty in her evening prayers. 
The next morning, when questioned as to whether she 
had done so, she quietly answered : ' Oh yes, but Dod 
said : " Don't mention it, Miss B " ' ! 

In a letter on some remark about children in my first 
book a most kind and able woman wrote to me as follows : 
' The only point on which I do not quite agree with you 
is where you say you cannot judge of a child's character 
before twelve. When I look back to my early childhood 
I can see how exactly I and my brothers and sisters were 



MARCH 247 

as little children what we are to-day. What I do think 
is that, from about twelve to twenty-two or three, or even 
twenty-eight, a certain deflection takes place ; but as one 
fully develops, one returns to what one was as a little 
child. I know that I am to-day far more Uke what I was 
at seven years old than what I was at sixteen. The child 
is father to the man, not to the youth. Of course you 
must be keen enough to read the child's character. 
Children are such mysterious things that few grown- 
up people, even those who are keen readers of adult 
character, can understand them.' 

So far as I understand what is called ' the New Educa- 
tion,' it does not mean knowledge-teaching at all, but the 
developing and fostering the good qualities that are born 
in a child, and so keeping under the evil propensities 
which are equally born in it. In fact, to make grow and 
develop what is actually there in the best way you can ; 
not try to cram in, as into an empty sack, what you 
think ought to be there. 

Some years ago the ' Pall MaU Gazette ' used, from 
time to time, to contain charming original articles on 
various subjects. Among my cuttings I find the following, 
so true to child life that I think it will rejoice everyone 
who cares to understand children. This study is reaUy 
only just beginning to be approached, as it should be, with 
the humiUty that belongs to great ignorance and non- 
understanding : 

' It has often been remarked that one half of the world 
does not know how the other half lives, but it is curious 
enough that this should be the fact about a half of the 
world who share our homes, who occupy our thoughts, 
and who possess our hearts, perhaps, more entirely than 
do any other earthly objects. 

' The world in which our children really move and live 
is as remote and unvisited by us as the animal kingdom 



248 MORE POT-POURRI 

itself, and it is only now and then that a chance glimpse 
into the working of their minds makes us realise the gulf 
that separates us. They can come to us, but we cannot 
go to them ; nor are they, indeed, without that touch of 
contempt for us and our affairs which might naturally 
be considered the exclusive privilege of the elder and 
stronger beings. " Don't disturb poor father ; he is read- 
ing his papers," is a sort of counterpart to " Oh, let them 
play ; they are doing no harm." When we cast a remin- 
iscent glance over our own childhood we reaUse how 
solitary were its hopes and its occupations, shared at 
most by one of our own age — a sister, a brother, or a 
friend. The elders appear from time to time as the di ex 
machind of our existence, for redress or for dehverance. 
We remember them as teachers, as purveyors of pleasure, 
often as separators of companions and terminators of 
dehghts, but rarely as sharers in our most exquisite 
amusements. " What will mother say ? " had about it a 
half-gleeful anticipation of disapproval, seldom destined 
to be unfulfilled ; and that not because of any severity 
on the part of the parent, but from a radical want of sym- 
pathy with the first principles of enjoyment. Wet, dirt, 
fatigue, a very little danger, late hours — all were in them- 
selves positive pleasures, and with some this flavour lingers 
till far on in life ; but as a rule you cannot depend upon 
a grown-up person not really preferring to be warm and 
dull and dry, to any discomforts you can offer him. 

' Then what a strange twiHght reigns in children's 
minds ! What dim mysterious associations of words and 
phrases lost to us through the garish light of grammar 
or of a clear and positive orthography ! Now and then 
across the years comes a memory of difficulties never 
guessed at by anyone but ourselves. How surprising it 
was to hear of people with broken arms or legs, which 
members nevertheless were not visibly severed from 



MARCH 349 

their persons nor lying on the floor, as in the more 
rational world of doUdom ! And what mysterious and 
terrible fate did " being killed on the spot " signify ? 
What spot ? or, rather, which spot ? for we invariably 
referred it to some bodily blemish of our own. 

' Holy Writ, of course, offered countless problems to 
the imagination, and so did the services of the Church. 
The collects were fraught with a meaning their authors 
never dreamed of. " The ills which the devil Orman 
worketh against us " referred, we knew well enough, to 
the deadly practices of some bottled Jinn or Efreet ; and 
one companion has since confessed that the Pontius 
Pilate alluded to by the congregation every Sunday was 
for him the Bonohurch pilot, strayed into strange 
company no doubt, but one with whom he had esta- 
blished friendly relations during the week. " Keep thy 
servant from consumptions sins," we said devoutly, for 
doubtless a consumptious sin was connected remotely 
with the store-room. 

' What confusion must have reigned in the mind of 
the white-robed infant we once heard murmuring at his 
mother's knee the following invocation : 

Tiger, tiger, burning bright, 

Through the darkness, be thou near me 1 

And how fortunate that prayer is not always directly 
answered! The words our children use are generally 
direct and picturesque, coined with a view to their 
expressive value. We know few terms more felicitous 
than " a sash-pain," by which a child (the sex is evident) 
was in the habit of alluding to one of the ills to which 
flesh is heir. A " rocking-bed " is a better name than a 
hammock, and a "worm pool" is evidently the Early 
Saxon rendering of a whirl-pool, or why should you be 
in danger of being sucked down by it ? A " poor wheeler " 



2SO MORE POT-POURRI 

delicately suggests the moral inferiority of square cabs to 
hansoms. What can be better than a child's definition 
of drawing : " Mrst you think about something, and then 
you draw a line round your think " ? 

' Sometimes their utterances betray character, as of the 
little boy who, when the tiger's growls behind the sofa 
had become too realistic for human endurance, burst forth 
with " Mother ! mother ! don't growl so loud ; it frightens 
granny " ; or the self-conscious infant who rushed to leave 
the lion-house at the Zoo because, he said, " The lion is 
peeping at baby " — as if that wide-eyed majesty were 
conscious of anything nearer than some Libyan desert 
visible to his mental gaze. Often they are questions to 
confound the wise. " Mother, does anyone have to-morrow 
before us ? and will they use to-day when we've done 
with it ? " has a flavour of Oriental wisdom about it 
difficult to meet. Most grandparents can supply you 
with genuine expressions and utterances drawn from 
nursery life, and they are willing to do so on the smallest 
encouragement; it is in them that children find their 
most intelligent sympathisers. We noticed two of the 
most distinguished men of the present day in deep and 
confidential discourse at a State entertainment in London 
the other season. To the superficial observer they 
appeared to be settUng the affairs of the nation, but in 
reality they were' capping stories about their respective 
youngest grandchildren, and their confidences lasted long 
and late. 

' It seems strange that with an inexhaustible field of 
observation open to everyone the children of fiction 
should not be more lifelike and less sentimental than is 
usually the case; but the subject is one that might be 
indefinitely pursued. 

' Memory, it is true, is apt to play us false when we try 
to re-enter the realms of our youth ; but few of us seem 



MARCH 251 

ever to have listened at the nursery door, or to have looked 
through the eyes of childhood into the make-believe world 
it inhabits.' 

I knew a little boy once who used to go out into 
Hyde Park when the soldiers were exercising, and xm 
his letnm give long and detailed accounts of the real 
battles he had seen. His elder and less imaginative 
brother would stand by in silent amazement at what 
seemed to him absolute untruths. The child in a way 
knew he had not seen what he described, and yet, as he 
had seen with the eye of imagination, it was real and true 
to him. 

Here is a little child's song, the words by E. Nesbit, 
set to music by Liza Lehmann, I think it charming, and 
so illustrative of the kind of imagination children have, 
knowing quite well that what they think is not the actual 
fact, though true to them : 

When my good-nights and pray'rs are said 
And I am safe tucked up in bed, 
I know my Guardian Angel stands 
And holds my soul between his hands. 
I cannot see his wings of light 
Because I keep my eyes shut tight, 
For if I open them I know 
My pretty Angel has to go. 
But through the darkness I can hear 
His white wings rustling very near. 
I know it is his darling wings, 
Not mother folding up my things. 

I never refuse to name anything I like when I am 
told 'Everyone knows that,' for 'everyone' is a very 
limited London circle, where bright, pretty things come 
like beautiful bubbles, are seen by what is called ' every- 
body,' and are gone in a moment. I think of my kind 
unknown friends who are far away bearing the white 
woman's burden, and who have written to me saying they 



252 MORE POT-POURRI 

enjoyed the little breath of home my last book brought 
them. They may not have seen or heard what I have 
and even here in Surrey I find that often the thing that 
' everyone knows ' does not even reach the next parish. 

March ^rd. — This is the first year I have forced Spiraa 
confusa, and it makes a lovely pot-plant. We left it out 
in the cold till the middle of January. In forcing all 
hardy things, that is the great secret : send them to sleep 
as early as you can by taking them up and exposing them 
to cold. All plants must have their rest; they are not 
like Baron Humboldt and his night of two hours. The 
leaves of this Spiraea are a blue-gray, and the branches are 
wreathed with miniature ' May blossoms.' Alas ! they do 
not do well picked and in water. 

I am sure, for anyone who wants to force coloured 
Hyacinths, only the very best bulbs are worth while, 
especially when single flowers are preferred, as in my 
case. They are so sweet in the house that I think they 
are worth the trouble of growing and the expense of 
buying annually. I got last autumn a larger and later 
flowering kind of white Hyacinth from Van Tubergen, 
called ' Italian Hyacinths,' single ones and quite cheap. 
They have come on splendidly. They are something like 
the early Eoman ones, only far larger and stronger. They 
flower much later and are of an accentuated white, well 
worth growing, and I think they will do out of doors next 
year or the year after. Two newly bought Staphylea 
colchica are looking lovely now in the greenhouse, and also 
a bought plant of white Lilac is covered with bloom. We 
must cut them all back hard after flowering, plant them 
out, and give them a year's rest ; then I hope they will do 
again. Libonia fiorihunda is also a very pretty little 
greenhouse plant at this time of year. This is the time to 
pot up some rested plants of Sweet Verbena, and put them 
into the warmest house to start their growth. They soon 



MARCH 253 

come into leaf, and are then best in the ordinary cool 
house. This gives plenty of Verbena for early picking. 

March 8th. — The lion-like character of the weather is 
softening, and all the little spring things begin to come 
through. Bach day makes a difference, but the delightful 
feeUng of new life is already everywhere. Our reason 
tells us this is because Nature has been asleep, not dead. 
There is no mistake about the poor really dead plants ; we 
know them too well. Early spring here is not beautiful 
at all ; it is dry and shrivelled and hard-looking, not 
like the neighbourhood of my old home by the Hertford- 
shire millstream. 

The white Alyssum, the common Pulmonaria, and 
the Wallflowers are all coming into flower. I feel more 
and more sure that mixed borders ought not to be dug up 
in autumn, as gardeners — especially gardeners new to a 
place — are so fond of doing ; in that way half the best 
things get lost. The best way is to re-plant, or dig out 
large pieces and divide each plant if it wants it after 
flowering and before they quite die down. The white 
Alyssum and the Pulmonarias both do better under 
the slight protection of shrubs than quite in the open 
border, where the cold winds catch them. 

My two large old^jCamenias planted out last autumn, 
well under a Holly and facing north, are doing well, and 
one has three bright rosy-red blooms. It remains to be 
seen how they will do next year. It is a pleasure to think 
Camellias do better in London gardens than almost 
any other evergreens, and only want well planting in peat 
and leaf-mould, and well syringing and watering in the 
spring. But there also they must have the protection of 
other shrubs, to hang over their tops and keep off the 
spring frosts. 

A semi-double Azalea for the greenhouse, called 
Deutsche PerZc, -was y^en me the other day, and is a 



254 MORE POT-POURRI 

charming greenhouse plant. The flower has something 
of the appearance of a Gardenia, but it has no scent. 

I have had two real good days' gardening, and have 
tried to carry out some of Miss Jekyll's hints, even in 
this commonplace, every-day garden. I have pulled 
down some of the climbing Eoses, to let them make low- 
growing bushes ; for it is so true that, as she says, when 
planted on a Pergola all their beauty is only for the bird 
as it flies. In the lanes, too, I saw some of the wild 
Arum leaves, and got out of the carriage to get some. 
Having no garden-gloves or knife with me, I ran my 
finger down into the soft leafy mould to gather them 
vnth the white stalk underground. I trust these will 
rejoice an invaUd friend in London to-morrow. One gets 
almost tired of the mass of flowers in London now, and 
things that smell of ditches and hedgerows are what one 
values most. 

March 9th. — Odontoglossum Bossii major is a charming 
little Orchid to hang up in a shallow pan in a greenhouse 
when in flower. I am getting to like Orchids more and 
more now that, instead of thinking of them in their 
hot glass palaces, the easy-growing ones are treated here 
like other greenhouse plants. They give me great 
pleasure ; the flowers are beautiful and interesting to look 
into and examine. I must learn more about them. In 
all things concerning Nature it is only ignorance that 
makes us take likes and dislikes. 

This is the first spring morning. How one appreciates 
the slightest rise in the temperature ! I quite pity those 
who have rushed South, and who cannot watch the slow 
development of our English spring, with aU its many 
disappointments. 

The bright yellow flowers of the improved Tussilago 
Coltsfoot, sold by Cannel, are now just coming out, and 
the gravelly corner where they grow is a bright mass of 



MARCH 255 

buds. These flowers that come before their leaves, like 
the autumn crocus, are attractive, though the size of their 
leaves when they do come puts one sometimes out of 
conceit with them, especially if crowded for room ; though 
it is astonishing how corners can be found in even small 
gardens for all sorts of things, if one gives the matter 
constant attention. Having everything under one's eye, 
one never forgets to notice how they get on ; the greatest 
danger for the beds and shrubberies is the forking-over in 
autumn. It is far better left alone, if it cannot be done 
with care and knowledge. 

My little plant of the Daphne blagayana is now in 
flower, but none of the Daphnes do well here for long ; 
even the mezereum goes off after a year or two, and 
D. cneorum wants constant attention. D. blagayana has 
to be grown like D. cneorum, pegged down in peat and 
with some low-growing plant to shade it. All Daphnes 
are well worth the care they need, but it is a hard struggle. 
I think the spring air is too dry for them. 

The best gardeners tell me we ought to be able to get 
Irises during eight or nine months of the year, and that 
this is done by keeping back Japanese Irises with their 
toes in the water till October. I confess I have never 
seen any Kampferi in bloom after the end of July in this 
part of the world. 

I have lately been given this most useful list for 
the blooming-time of Irises : February and March, Iris 
stylosa (blue and white varieties), I. reticulata, I. 
unguicularis alba, I. persica, I. histrioides ; March and 
April, I. pumila atropurpurea, I. pumila ccerulea, I. 
bacheriaTia, I. tuberosa, I. orchioides, I. assyriaca; 
May, florentiTia ; May and June, German and Spanish 
and I. sibirica ; July and August, English and Japanese. 
I have had the ground prepared, and to-day I am 
sowing the Shirley and other Poppies and Sweet-peas. 



256 MORE POT-POURRI 

Early sowing of early summer annuals is most essential 
here. I see Miss Jekyll holds much to autumn sowing. I 
have tried it and failed in some cases, but that is because 
I have done it too late in the autumn. Early sowing is 
the only plan of spring sowing that is at all successful 
here. This particular first week in March 1899 is per- 
fection for all gardening work. I never saw the ground 
in such a good state — pulverised by night frosts, without 
being too dry and dusty. The gardening papers say there 
has not been such a sunny February for thirty years. 

The paper of instructions sent out by the secretary of 
the Eoyal Horticultural Society with the seed of the 
Shirley Poppy is so excellent and such a help for many 
annuals that I cannot do better than copy it. One of 
the reasons people fail with hardy annuals is, as I said 
before, from not sowing them early enough : 

' 1. On as early a day as possible in February choose 
a plot of ground sixteen to eighteen feet square or there- 
abouts, give it a liberal dressing of rich dung and dig it 
in well, and leave it to settle. 

' 2. For sowing, choose the first fine open day in March, 
free from actual frost, when the ground works easily, and 
rake the surface over. 

' 3. Mix the seed with five or six times its own bulk of 
dry sand, so as to make it easier to sow it thinly. 

' 4. Scatter the mixture thinly, broadcast, over the 
raked surface and rake it again lightly. 

' 5. When the seedlings are large enough to handle, if 
there should be any bare patches in the bed, move with 
the tip of a trowel a few tiny clumps from where they 
stand thickest. 

' 6. As soon as the bed shows regularly green, stretch 
two lines across it parallel to each other, at eight inches 
apart and, with a Dutch hoe, hoe up all between the lines, 
sparing those plants only that are close to each line. , 



MARCH 257 

Move the lines and so hoe all the bed, which will then 
consist of a number of thin lines of seedlings eight inches 
apart, and the hoed-up ones lying between. 

' 7. About a week later stretch the lines again eight 
inches apart at right angles to the previous lines, and hoe 
again. This when finished will leave a number of tiny 
square patches of seedlings eight inches apart each way. 

' 8. A week later thin out the little patches by hand, 
leaving only one plant in each. Now every plant will 
have eight inches square to grow in. 

' 9. Directly the plant shows the first sign of running 
up to blossom, put a thin line of two-feet-high pea-sticks 
between every two or at most every three hues of the 
plants to strengthen them to resist the wind and rain. 
They will soon grow above and hide the sticks. 

' 10. In dry weather thoroughly soak the bed once a 
week. A little sprinkle overhead is no use. 

' N.B. — Be sure the operation described in No. 6 is 
done early enough, otherwise the plants will have become 
" leggy " before your thinning is complete, and when once 
Poppies become " leggy " they are practically ruined.' 

March lith. — My garden is now full of the old wild 
sweet Violet {Viola odorata) of our youth — before even the 
' Czars ' came in, much less the giant new kinds. I have 
an immense affection for this Violet, with its beautiful 
intense colour and its delicate perfume. It grew all 
about the Hertfordshire garden under the hedges, and 
little seedlings started up in the gravel paths, looking 
bold and defiant ; but all the same they were rooted out 
by the gardener when summer tidying began. At the 
end of March or early in April, when the rain comes, I 
divide up and plant little bits of these Violets everywhere, 
and they grow and flourish and increase under Gooseberry 
bushes and Currant bushes, along the palings covered 
with Blackberries, under shrubs — anywhere, in fact — and 

s 



2S8 MORE POT-POURRI 

there they remain, hidden and shaded and undisturbed all 
the summer. Where seedlings appear they are let alone 
aU the summer and autumn till after flowering-time in 
spring. They look lovely, and brave these cold, dry, 
March days ; but their stalks are rather short here, for want 
of moisture. If anyone wants to see this Violet to per- 
fection, let him chance to be in Eome early in March, 
as I once was, and let him go to the old English 
cemetery, where Keats hes buried and the heart of Shelley, 
and he wiU see a never-to-be-forgotten sight — the whole 
ground blue with the Violets, tall and strong above their 
leaves, the air one sweet perfume, and the sound (soft and 
yet distinct) of the murmur of spring bees. 

Just at this time we rake off the winter mulching that 
has covered the Asparagus beds, water them well with 
liquid manure, and salt them when the rain comes. 

March l&th. — As the seasons come round, the changes 
often recall to my mind certain verses in ' Bethia Hard- 
acre's ' volume. Such tender loving versions of some of 
Nature's facts are there, and I go out to verify them. The 
garden now is one mass of Crocuses, Violets, fading 
Snowdrops and bursting Daffies ; and this is how the 
flower-chain is described by her : 

Blossoms, meet to mourn the dead, 
On each season's grave are spread ; 
Lilies white and Roses red 
O'er dead Spring are canopied ; 
Boses in their latest bloom 
Blazen golden Summer's tomb ; 
Stealthy showers of petals fall 
At still Autumn's funeral ; 
But the darlings of the year 
Strew rude Winter's sepulchre. 

Scarce a flower does Winter own ; 
Of four seasons he alone 



MARCH 259 

Scarce a bud does to him take- 
Barren for the future's sake, 
Well content to none possess ; 
And sweet Violets — faithfulness — 
And white Snowdrops — innocence — 
Are in death his recompense ; 
And these darlings of the year 
Strew rude Winter's sepulchre. 

March 2Qth. — Of all the many catalogues I receive, 
none, I think, are produced with anything hke the 
attractive intelligence of the one sent out by Messrs. 
Ware, of Tottenham. This year one is tempted to say, 
from the pretty European-Japanese drawing on the cover, 
that Nature made a mistake in not giving us sometimes 
an all-over pink sky instead of a blue ! The soil at 
Tottenham is very heavy, and plants that flourish 
admirably there, from my experience, unfortunately decline 
altogether to grow when removed to a purer air and a 
lighter soil. I am sure that all amateurs who are in- 
terested in the rarer varieties of hardy and half-hardy 
plants had far better try and raise them themselves from 
seed. But a visit to Messrs. Ware's garden near London, 
as well as constantly going to Kew, will show amateurs 
what can be done. The old-fashioned idea that a garden 
meant a place of quiet and repose is not the proper 
mental attitude for suburban plant-cultivators. The 
drawings in the catalogue are excellent, though they 
perhaps rather represent the cultivator's expectations 
than the truth. Still, it is well to have high ideals even 
in annuals and biennials. To return to my catalogue- 
no one can give time and study to it without being 
the wiser. 

In spite of all my resolutions to stay at home, I have 
a very great longing to go once more to the 'Eiviera,' 
and see some of the really good gardens which have 
grown up since my time, especially that of ' La Mortola, 

g2 



26o MORE POT-POURRI 

Italy,' belonging to Commendatore Hanbury. Last year, 
with his help and permission, a little book came out 
which was a great success, and qtuckly ran out of print ; 
it was called ' Eiviera Nature Notes.' A book of great 
interest to us who are only Enghsh gardeners, what 
would it be to those who are his neighbours on those 
sunny slopes ? The first Une in the book is : ' J'observe et 
je suis la nature ; c'est mon secret pour 6tre heureux ' 
(Plorian). 

Can we hear this truth too often in prose and poetry 
and in all art ? I have always thought one of the most 
beautiful of Burne-Jones's early pictures is the one which 
represents the wild god — Pan — lovingly receiving poor 
little Psyche, thrown up by the river that refused to drown 
her. And does it not mean that Nature from all time has 
been the best comforter for one of the greatest of human 
sorrows, unrequited love ? 

These ' Eiviera Notes ' are full of desultory but most 
interesting information. How delightful to read them in 
a dry Olive yard or under an umbrella Pine, with the 
blue sea behind the tree's rich stem ! Or, when too warm 
to walk so far, to sit below the Orange-trees, whose tops 
above one's head are masses of golden fruit and sweet- 
smelling flowers ! At the end of the book are chapters on 
birds, insects, and the ' Eiviera ' traces of that individual 
— apparently so much aUke in all countries — prehistoric 
man. Were they happy, those dim mysterious multitudes 
of the Old Stone and New Stone ages ? This Uttle book 
must have delighted many, as it delighted me ; and it is 
not too difficult for anyone as ignorant as I am to under- 
stand. As it bears on my favourite topic, I must quote 
from this book the fact that ' polenta ' or Indian-corn 
porridge is the chief food of the Piedmontese, and I observe 
it is also stated that they do the hard manual labour at 
' La Mortola.' They work all about the country as navvies, 



'J J 



MARCH 261 

porters, and so forth, which proves that at any rate this food 
does not make them unmuscular. They are powerfully 
made men, and the Nigois are ludicrously afraid of them, 
for they consider them capable of any act of violence. It 
is also said that these Piedmontese suffer from a disease 
called the ' pellagra,' caused by living on this polenta, ' one 
of the least nourishing of the farinaceous foods.' May it 
not be the food mixed with some form of alcohol? It 
appears as if some disease belonged to every kind of food 
eaten without variety and in large quantities. 

Mr. Barr gave me two years ago some small bulbs 
of Crocus tommasinianus. I thought at first they were 
going to do nothing; but this year they have flowered 
beautifully, and are of a very delicate pale lavender colour. 
He says they will come up every year, and I think they 
are really far prettier than the large, strong, cultivated 
Crocuses. I have often been asked. What should be put 
into Eose beds to enliven their dull branchiness for early 
spring ? Strong clumps of winter Aconites planted very 
deep, to be succeeded, when the Aconites are only bright 
green tufts of leaves, by large pale Crocuses, white and 
light lavender, are as good a combination as I know ; and 
when they die down a fresh top-dressing can be lightly 
forked into the Eoses without hurting the bulbs. 

A correspondent noticed that I did not mention 
Anemone Pulsatilla. It is quite true I have not got it. 
In my ignorant days I bought it once or twice, and it 
quickly died ; and I have not yet tried to grow it from 
seed, but shall do so this year. This correspondent writes 
from Gloucestershire, where he says it grows wild, and 
that, when well grown, ' it is the most beautiful native 
plant we have.' His letter is dated March 9th, and he 
adds : ' I have one now in a twelve-inch pan, taken up 
about three weeks ago, which has about 150 flowers and 
buds on it. Like Lilies of the Valley, it grows in the 



262 MORE POT-POURRI 

poorest and dryest lime-soil. But it likes good feeding.' 
I think that description sounds as if it were worth 
trouble to produce. Of course he meant, when he took it 
up, that he grew it under glass. 

Two years ago I bought a plant of Holboellia lati- 
folia, and planted it in the ground in my cool greenhouse, 
where it is doing quite beautifully, and is now covered 
with buds. It is a deUghtful plant for a cool greenhouse 
creeper, as the fragrance of its white flowers is dehcious, 
almost exactly like Orange flower ; and it is so nearly 
hardy it will do out of doors against a wall in many parts 
of England. I shall try it here when I have struck some 
cuttings. It is often called erroneously Stauntonia latifolia. 

1 have just brought into the conservatory next the 
dravnng-room from the cool house in the kitchen garden 
an interesting panful of one of the Moraeas. They seem 
a large family ; aU from the Cape of Good Hope. A piece 
was given me by someone who called it M. finibriata. It 
has not been touched for two years, and was well baked 
all the summer, is now healthy and growing, and has four 
bloom-spikes ; last year it only threw up one. The flower 
is like a small delicate Iris of a lovely cold china-blue 
colour. The growth is quite different from that of an 
Iris. The stalk has a graceful bend, and a branching end 
with several buds, as is the case with so many of the 
Cape bulbs. The buds open one after the other as the 
flower dies. They will do when picked and in water. 
My Orinum Moorei I have had for three or four years in 
a large pot. It makes its leaves in February, and throws 
up without fail its enormous brown flower-stem. It is 
beginning to open now its hly-like flowers ; these, like 
the buds of the Morcsa fimbriata, flower in succession, but, 
as each one lasts about a week in bloom, the flowering 
period is extended for a considerable time. It is well fed 
while growing with liquid manure. Its healthy, strong 



MARCH 263 

appearance and delicate scent give me a great deal of 
pleasure year by year. 

Mustard and Cress, much grown in boxes in early 
spring, and which is so delicious at five o'clock tea or 
with bread-and-butter and cheese, many people will not 
eat because it is often gritty. This certainly makes it 
horrid ; and if the Cress is washed it makes.it very wet, 
often without getting rid of the grit. Tlie best way to 
grow it is to make the earth very damp before sowing, 
press it down flat, and then sow th© seed very lightly on 
the top, making a division between the Mustard and Cress. 
Cover it with a tile, or something else to make it dark, till 
it has sprouted, and then cut it carefully straight into the 
plate or small fancy basket in which it is to be served, 
vyithout washing it at all. If grown in this way and care- 
fully cut, there will be no grit whatever. I find small, low, 
round, Japanese baskets of various sizes (from Liberty's) 
are most useful in a house with a garden. They are beauti- 
fully made and very pretty, and fruit can be picked into 
them at once, and served either at breakfast or luncheon 
without any fingering in the pantry or kitchen. 

March 28th. — Towards the end of this month, or quite 
the beginning of next, it is most important to erect 
shelters under walls or trees, where the sides can be 
protected from wind and the top covered up on cold 
nights, as now is the time it is so important to clear out 
greenhouses, both for the sake of the hardier plants that 
are going out, and the more special ones that remain inside. 
When they are moving, feeling the spring in all their 
fibres, that is the time they begin to get weak and drawn 
up if not given room and air. This is especially the case 
with the large old Geraniums that are in the greenhouse, 
Carnations, Abutilons, not to mention all the forced things 
that have done flowering. Putting them out under these 
shelters hardens them off well before they are planted out 



264 MORE POT-POURRI 

in the open. Nothing is more distressing to a real plant- 
lover than to see bulbs and Spiraeas and Azaleas lying 
about untended, just after they have done their work so 
valiantly for us early in the year. If a plant is not worth 
care, it is not worth keeping. Throw it away at once where 
it goes to make food for future generations, and the pot 
is useful when many pots are wanted. As I said before, 
but remind now, pieces of corrugated iron come in most 
usefully in making these temporary pens and shelters. 
Por some plants a sunk pit with a raised rim of brick 
or turf answers well. On this the sheets of iron are laid 
at night. 

March 30th. — At this time last year I wrote in my 
notebook that the cold and tempestuous weather, which 
had lasted the whole of March, moderated a Uttle, and so 
I drove to the lovely wild garden in this neighbourhood, 
which is always so full of interest to me the whole year 
round. 

One of the most striking things in the garden was » 
plant of Daphne hlagayaiia. I asked how they managed 
to flower so well what I found so difficult, and was told 
this Daphne had been protected with a vdre hencoop 
covered with green canvas, which keeps out six or seven 
degrees of frost. The Adonis vernalis was out much 
earlier than mine, but the garden is damper and more 
sheltered. A. vernalis is a beautiful spring flower, but it 
dislikes being moved. There must be some difiBculty, I 
suppose, about its cultivation, as one so seldom sees it. Th& 
Ghionodoxas were the finest and largest I have ever seen, 
and were called Allenii. The true Anemone fulgent 
grcBcii was a more brilliant colour than the ordinary one. 
I imagine it is rather difficult to get. A blue ChiUan 
Crocus I had never seen before (Tecophylcea cyano) is- 
slightly tender and requires protection. It was out of doors 
in this sheltered wood, and had only been protected witb 



MARCH 265 

a handglass. Forsythia intermedia is one of the best, 
and was flowering well. For anyone who has a damp 
shady wood, there are no shrubs more beautiful than the 
various Andromedas. Yards of ground in this wood were 
covered with the Pyrola (Winter Green). Its small red 
berry was still on, and spring flowers and bulbs of all 
kinds were growing up through it. A more beautiful 
covering for the ground, where the soil is leafy and the 
moisture sufficient, does not exist. 

A good rockery label, as it shows very little, is a small 
stick with the bark left on but for a flat piece cut off at 
the top, which is painted white to receive the name. 



Eeceipts 

Turbot a la PortUgaise.— Cut into Julienne strips 
equal quantities of carrots, onions, turnips, and celery. 
Ery lightly in butter till a good colour. Add fresh toma- 
toes, peeled and with the seeds taken out. Cut them in 
slices before adding to the other vegetables. Moisten with a 
glass of white Sauteme wine and a little German sauce 
(see ' Dainty Dishes ') to bind the vegetables, a little veal 
gravy, a little salt, a pinch of sugar ; and leave the whole 
to cook for twenty to twenty-five minutes till of a good 
consistency. 

Meanwhile take the fillets of a moderate-sized turbot 
without bones or skin. Butter freely a rather shallow 
saut§-pan, place the fillets in it, season with salt and 
white pepper, moisten with one or two glasses of Sauteme 
wine, and bring to the boil on the fire. Cover with a 
round bit of buttered paper, and finish cooking them 
inside the oven. Baste them constantly, so that they 
should not get dry. They will take from twenty to 
twenty-five minutes to cook. 



266 MORE POT-POURRI 

SeiTre the fillets in a silver dish — whole or in slices. 
Add to the vegetables the gravy of the fillets of tnrbot 
which remains in the saut6-pan. Cook these to a turn, 
add a good bit of fresh butter and a Uttle Hungarian 
' paplika ' ; in default of which a little cayenne pepper 
can be used. Pour the vegetables over the turbot, to hide 
the fillets. Place for a few moments in a hot oven, and 
serve. 

When mushrooms are small or not very fresh, they 
are best chopped fine, warmed up with a little butter, 
pepper and salt, and poured on to some squares of 
hot toast. The yolk of an egg is an improvement 
for non-vegetarians. For broiUng mushrooms in the 
oven they are much better if done in bacon-fat instead of 
butter. 

Sutton's winter salad is now getting rather old. If it 
is cut up in small shreds, and a raw leek and beetroot 
added (also shredded fine), and the whole mixed together 
with a little half mayonnaise sauce or plain oil and 
vinegar, it makes a very good salad. 

We get the seedling lettuces in boxes a little earlier 
year by year, as it is such a pleasure to get back to a 
really fresh salad. It always recalls to me the young 
spring salads the monks used to bring to my mother at 
Cimiez, and which she attributed to some mysterious 
monkish secret. The fact is, the climate there enables 
lettuces to be sown out of doors very early. 

It is well to know that rhubarb can be made to take 
the flavour of anything you cook with it ; but with forced 
young rhubarb, when the flavour is delicate, it is a mis- 
take to put anything except a little sugar. Cooks can be 
reminded at this time of year, when dried fruits are so 
useful as compotes — apricots, prunes, apples, etc. — that it 
is a great improvement in the stewing of them to add 
occasionally a tablespoonful of cold water, to prevent 



MARCH 267 

their cooking too fast. Bleached almonds are a pleasant 
addition as a change in these compotes. 

I read with regret the other day in a leading evening 
newspaper of the authoritative revival of the notion that 
eating tomatoes is the cause of the increase of cancer. 
This theory seems likely to deprive the poorer public of 
one of the best and cleanest blood-purifiers within reach 
of the inhabitants of our towns. It seems to me on a par 
with Swift's idea that his liferlong headaches were in a 
great measure due to a surfeit of fruit consumed when 
very young at Moor Park, and which, naturally enough, 
brought on the first attack, as a dish of strawberries will 
upset a meat-eating and gouty patient — this state of the 
blood being produced by eating, not too much, but too 
little fruit. The population of the whole South of Europe 
has eaten tomatoes from time immemorial. Would it not 
be far more sensible to look for the cause of cancer in the 
great increase of meat-eating, especially in towns, the 
over-fed and diseased cattle, tinned and other preserved 
animal foods, and the much-consumed modern stimulant, 
beef -tea ? 

I do not vouch for the absolute correctness of the 
following statements, but I find them among my notes, 
and I think there is some truth in them : 

Lettuce is calming and beneficial to anyone suffering 
from insomnia. 

Honey is wholesome, strengthening, cleansing, heaUng, 
and nourishing. 

Lemons afford relief to feverish thirst in sickness, 
and, mixed vrith hot water, are a help in biliousness, 
low fever, colds, coughs, rheumatism, etc. 

In cases of disease of the nerves and nervous dyspepsia 
tomatoes are a powerful aperient for the liver, and are 
invaluable in all conditions of the system in which the 
use of calomel is indicated. 



268 MORE POT-POURRI 

Onions are useful in cases of nervous prostration, and 
■will quickly relieve and tone up a worn-out system. 
They are also useful in all cases of coughs, colds, and 
influenza. 

Apples are nutritious, medicinal, and vitalising. They 
aid digestion, clear the voice, and correct the acidity of the 
stomach. 



269 



APRIL 

Newspapers on cremation — More about Suffolk — Maund on flowers 
that close — Asparagus growing on the seacoast — Peacock feathers 
for firescreens — Dining-room tables — Petroleum tubs in gardens 
— Neglect of natural history — Cactuses again— Old mills — Mr. 
Burbidge on sweet-smelling leaves — Florist Auriculas — Seed- 
sowing — Kitchen garden — Poultry. 

Aptil l&t. — This book is the last bit of work of the kind 
I shall ever do, and I am anxious to state, as I think 
of them, any views I may happen to have on various 
matters. 

I am deeply interested in watching the gradual 
development of public opinion on cremation. I casually 
alluded to this before, in reference to Mr. Eobinson's well- 
known book on the subject. So far as I can judge from the 
newspapers, cremation is making a little way among the 
rich and well-known, who alone seem in this country to 
have the power of influencing the majority. But if what I 
read is true, a terrible fashion is growing around this excel- 
lent, clean, practical way of being dealt with after death, and 
that is that instead of one funeral there are to be three — one 
the cremation, another the funeral service in London, a 
third (and worst of all) the burying of the ashes. The news- 
papers gave an account of a cremated Peer who by his own 
wish or his family's had the box with the collected ashes 
deposited in an ordinary-sized cofi&n, in order that the 
tenantry might have the honour of carrying the cofiSn in 
the usual way to the vault. This kind of thing, I think 



2 70 MORE POT-POURRI 

tends to make the process ridiculous. And as only those 
iare cremated who wish it, detailed directions might be 
left that the ashes should be spread under the sweet vault 
of heaven, and a memorial erected, useful or otherwise, 
in church or street, as seems good to the family. That 
alone, in my opinion, gives dignity to the whole proceeding ; 
the burying of box or urn is meaningless and almost 
puerile. How dogmatic it reads in print, to say simply 
what one feels ! But I mention my view of the question 
because, in talking with people, I so often find they have 
done such and such a thing merely because they had not 
thought of the other way. The old world, it is true, 
collected the ashes. But we know that in later days they 
were used by the Eoman washerwomen, so long as thej- 
could get them, as we use soda, for the purifying alkalies 
they contained. I see no need for us to provide alkaline 
matter for future generations. 

April 2nd. — I have been lately to some of my Suffolk 
friends, in whose gardens I always learn so much. In a 
bowl of mixed flowers in my room I quickly detected a 
flower I did not know, a pale lavender double-Daisy-shaped 
ball, many on a branch, and yet not crowded or thick. 
This turned out to be double Cineraria, gi'own from seed 
sent out by Veitch. I can see the horror of many of my 
good-colour loving, bad-colour hating friends, who dislike 
the ordinary finely-grown gardener's Cinerarias as much 
as I do. These double ones have the advantage of doing 
exceedingly well picked, and are one of the few plants 
which I really think are prettier double than single, though 
I afterwards saw that some of the plants were very crude 
and hard in colour. 

Dimorphotheca eclonis is a very pretty-growing, long- 
floworing pot-plant from Africa. It is of the same family as 
Calendula (Marigold), and very like Calendula phivialis, 
figured in Maund's ' Botanic Garden,' that never-to-be-too- 



APRIL 271 

much-praised book. The whole family of Calendulas 
close on dull damp days. Maund says of these plants : 
' The Latin pluvialis, which pertains to rain, is used in 
reference to the influence which rain or dew has on the 
opening and closing of the blossoms of our present subject. 
All flowers, we believe, which close in rainy or cloudy 
weather have the property of closing at night. The same 
object, protection from moisture, is attained in each 
instance. This peculiarity is prettily alluded to in the 
following lines, which I copy from Dr. Withering's 
arrangement : 

The flower enamoured ol the sun. 
At his departure hangs her head and weeps. 
And shrouds her sweetness up, and keeps 

Sad vigils, like a cloistered nun. 
Tin his reviving ray appears. 
Waking her beauty as he dries her tears.' 

The seed of this Calendula pluvialis may be sown in 
the open ground in April. 

I have never seen Messrs. Backhouse's gardens at 
York ; but so far as I can judge, from seeing various rook 
gardens they have made and planted, no one is half so 
good as they are for all Alpines. They have so improved 
the actual plants that they are scarcely to be recognised 
as the same which grow in their mountain homes. Many 
will say : ' What a pity ! ' But that applies to all rock- 
gardening. If one tries to grow Alpines, one wants them 
to be strong and to live. SaxifrOga oppositifolia is, for 
instance, really like what Mr. Backhouse describes in his 
catalogues and David Wooster illustrated in his book on 
Alpine plants. Saxifraga sancta blooms in profusion as 
early as this, and is a bright pale yellow. All these plants 
require either to be divided or else to have some handfuls 
of light earth thrown over them after flowering. Saxi- 
fraga hirseriana is also very early, and has a pretty flower. 



272 MORE POT-POURRI 

But all these plants cost money, as they make no effect 
except in large clumps ; and, to do well, I fear they want 
stiflf moist soils. 

Those who live near the coast may be interested to 
hear of an experiment which I saw being tried for growing 
Asparagus in a wild state on the sandy shore of Suffolk. 
The gardener wrote me the following description of what 
he had done : 

' In the spring of 1896 some yearling Asparagus plants 
were planted on the lower portions of some raised banks 
close to the sea. There was no attempt at preparing the 
ground ; it was not even properly cleared of weeds, or 
sufficient care exercised to plant the plants far enough 
apart to give them growing-room. But the result far 
exceeds what might have been expected from such rough- 
and-ready treatment, for one can almost say they have 
grown wild. As regards the soil of which these banks 
are composed, the only remark one can make is that it 
is of a very questionable character, although of three 
classes : No. 1, pure fine drift-sand ; No. 2, drift-sand 
crag and river-mud mixed ; No. 3, river-mud. The plants 
in No. 2 mixture have given the best produce, No. 3 river- 
mud being very close ; whilst the produce of No. 1, from 
the fine drift-sand, is very poor. There has been no 
attempt to give cultural aids in the way of manure up to 
the present. In summing up the result of the above 
experiment it is quite evident that our home-grown 
Asparagus supplies might very easily be largely increased, 
and it is to be hoped the idea may be taken up as a means 
of profit by working men who are holders of land by the 
sea. 

' It will be necessary, if success in the production of the 
first-class article is to be arrived at, to observe clearly at 
the onset three things of the utmost importance. First, 
thoroughly clean the land to be planted with Asparagus 



APRIL 273 

of all such weeds as Docks, Spear-grass or any other 
perennial weed, as if done at the first it is done for good, 
leaving the land free to be taken possession of by the 
Asparagus roots, and doing away with any after-necessity 
of forking about them. Second, plant good strong yearling 
plants not nearer together than two feet, better still if the 
distance is increased to three or four feet, marking the spot 
where each plant is planted with a stout stake, so that 
their position can be known. Third, the land must be kept 
free of weeds, and a dressing of manure, or any form of 
liquid manure, may be given occasionally during their 
season of growth.' 

I may add that even in inland sandy places I am 
certain a very fair success is to be obtained in growing 
Asparagus by planting them in odds and ends of places, 
even amongst shrubs, or anywhere in suitable corners. 
The difficulty is to mark the place clearly enough in 
winter, so that when a new hand comes in the roots may 
not be dug up. The Asparagus plants that annually bear 
a quantity of berries are by no means so large as those 
that are unfruitful, and great numbers of gardeners now 
discard them at planting-time where they are known to 
exist. This, no doubt, is a step in the right direction. I 
believe this excessive seeding of some plants is the result 
of check in growth in young stages, such as severe root- 
injury, overcrowding in the seed-bed, and poverty of 
soil. It is well to add that in all exposed places it is 
necessary to secure by staking the summer's growth, as it 
is very important that this should be preserved from being 
broken down, and it should not be cut down till quite late 
in the autumn. 

April ith. — Eetm-ned home to-day. It is incredible 
the difference a little warm rain makes. The whole garden 
looks so changed from when I went away four or five 
days ago ! 

T 



2 74 MORE POT-POURRI 

I have in the entrance drive a large Balsam-bearing 
Poplar — or-Tacamahac tree, as I believe it to be correctly 
called. Mr. Loudon in his ' Arboretum ' describes it 
exactly. Every garden of a certain size would be the 
better for having one of these trees, because of the exquisite 
smell of the long catkins produced in April. If one 
passes near the tree in showery weather, the air reminds 
one of a greenhouse filled with Cape Jessamine or 
Gardenia. The scent does not last very long, but while it 
does I know nothing sweeter. 

April 5th. — Years ago I had the great pleasure of going 
to D. G. Eossetti's studio. He was working at the small 
replica of his beautiful big picture now at Liverpool — 
Dante's dream — from the' Vita Nuova.' In the picture Love 
holds his hand and gives Beatrice — dead — the kiss that 
Dante never gave her living. It is a poem which can be 
interpreted in a hundred ways, according to the mind and 
heart of those who look. To most people I suppose it is 
the glorious interpretation of a very common mental 
attitude — what we have not had is to us what is most 
precious and most beautiful and most lasting. "When 
Eossetti ceased to be among us, and with the memory of 
that afternoon at his studio strong upon me, I went to his 
house in Cheyne Walk on the ' private view ' day before the 
sale. I tried to buy one or two of his things, but they 
went at very high prices, and I got nothing ; still I have 
always remembered what struck me as a lovely and 
original firescreen. I have had it copied several times, 
and it has given pleasure to many ; so I will describe it 
here, that it may give pleasure to a few more. It was a 
little Chippendale plain mahogany screen consisting of 
three narrow leaves. The surface of each of these was 
entirely covered with the eyes of peacock feathers stuck 
one over the other, like the scales of a fish, each eye having 
the long feathers round it cut off. The other side of the 



APRIL 27s 

panel was gilt, and I have lately found that thin oak takes 
the gilding beat. I think in the original Eossetti screen 
it was gilt paper or leather. On this, long peacock 
feathers, split at the back to make them lie flat, were 
arranged in groups of three or iive, or six, at various 
heights according to fancy. They look best if the stalks 
nearly meet at the bottom. The panels are glazed on 
both sides. A square firescreen can be arranged in the 
same way. The effect is most satisfactory, and it has 
that great merit in furniture — unohangeableness. The 
colours, being natural, never fade ; and the glass preserves 
the feathers' from perishing. 

The following is a receipt for varnishing plaster casts, 
given me many years ago by Sir Edward Burne-Jones : 

Quarter of an ounce of gum elami, two ounces of 
white^wax, half a pint of turpentine ; add a small squeeze 
from an. oil-paint tube of raw umber when a small quantity 
of the varnish has been poured into a saucer ready for 
use. Apply with a brush and spread quickly and evenly. 
This has to be done three times, with a day between 
each coating, and rubbed hard with a silk handkerchief 
between each painting. It gives casts and plaster figures 
the colour of old ivory and makes them useful and 
decorative in a way they can never be without it. The 
varnish on the casts lasts for ever, never becomes dirty, 
and the dust can be rubbed or even washed off quite 
easily. The best place in London for plaster casts is 
Brucciani's (40 Eussell Street, Covent Garden). I know 
few decorations more satisfactory — for those who appreciate 
them and in certain rooms — than these casts, either from 
Greek friezes or (best of all) the low-relief reproductions 
of Donatello's almost divine work. 

Dinner-tables in country houses are often a great 
puzzle. I know nothing so dreary as two or three people 
sitting down to a large empty table at breakfast or dinner, 

T 2 



276 MORE POT-POURRI 

because it is not worth while to change it as a few more 
are coming to luncheon. When we first came here, even 
our family party varied so much in numbers that I 
thought it most desirable to find something that would 
suit my notions, and be easily and quickly changed from 
little to big and vice versd. I hunted the old furniture 
shops with no success, and at last decided something 
must be made to carry out my intentions. We got three 
oak tables made of exactly the same size, the top of each 
being forty-five inches square. It was impossible for 
these tables to have four legs, as when put together, which 
was my plan for enlarging, they would be much in the 
way. The top was not very thick, so had to be firmly 
supported. This was done by two pieces of wood placed 
underneath the top and resting on four wooden columns 
(after the manner of Chippendale's round tables) fitting 
into a piece of wood fourteen inches square and eight 
inches from the floor. Prom the four corners of this 
spread out four feet, almost but not quite to the outside 
edge of the table above, thus making it quite firm. This 
table is equally suitable for two or four people. In order 
to make it comfortable for six, we lay a false top upon it 
a few inches longer at both ends. When guests are more 
numerous, two of the tables are put together, and for 
a stiU greater number the third can be added. They 
remain perfectly firm and level if made of seasoned wood, 
and need no fixing or machinery to join them. The oak 
can be varnished or left plain, smoked or stained green, 
according to taste. Mr. Watson, of 11 Orchard Street, 
London, makes them to order. For breakfast or luncheon 
we use the small tables apart, even when our party is 
complete. But at dinner this gives so much more trouble 
in waiting that we put them together. 

April 8th. — This year gardening knowledge is given 



APRIL 277 

to the public olieaper than ever. There is a new penny 
handbook on gardening to be got at any railway station 
(Ward, Lock & Co.). It is quite good, giving all the 
elementary instruction necessary. 

The uses of petroleum tubs in a garden are endless. 
I get my oil now from London, and so do not return the 
barrels. Mr. Barr told me the other day he was knock- 
ing the bottoms out of some, sinking them one below the 
other with a pipe in between, and puddling them with 
stiff clay at the bottom ; then he was going to plant them 
with specimens of the beautiful new !Prench Nymphseas 
(Water Lilies), M. Marliac's hybrids being the most 
beautiful perhaps of all. A full, excellent, and detailed 
account of the cultivation of these Water Lilies is to be 
found in Mr. Eobinson's last edition of ' The English 
Mower Garden.' As is natural at my age, I have a most 
elderly affection for types and parent plants, because as 
a rule they are less expensive to buy, and much more 
willing to be managed when one has got them. But I do 
not say this without from my heart giving all honour to 
cultivators of hybrid plants. 

Tub arrangements can be made of endless use even in 
the smallest gardens and back-yards, if sunny — never 
forgetting the precious rain-water, which every slight slope 
in the ground makes it easy to collect if the tubs are 
sunk level with the ground. I mention things again and 
again, knowing well in our full modern lives how useful 
it is merely to remind. This year I have sunk a tub 
under every tap I have in the garden, as exposing the 
water to the sun and air prevents its being so hard and 
«old as when it comes straight out of the pipe. 

We have just had, what we always feel to be doubly 
precious in our sandy soil, a good shower of rain. Mr. 
Stephen Phillips, in the ' Saturday Eeview ' last year, had 



278 MORE POT-POURRI 

a poem ■which describes this kind of shower beautifully 
and originally : 

After rain, after rain. 

Oh, sparkling Earth I 

All things are new again, 

Bathed as at birth. 

Now the pattering sound hath ceased. 

Drenched and released, 

Upward springs the glistening bough 

In sunshine now ; 

And the raindrop from the leaf 

Buns and slips ; 

Ancient forests have relief. 

Young foliage drips. 

All the earth doth seem 

Like Dian issuing from the stream, 

Her body flushing from the wave. 

Glistening in her beauty grave ; 

Down from her, as she doth pass 

Little rills run to the grass ; 

Or like perhaps to Venus when she rose 

And looked with dreamy stare across the sea. 

As yet unconscious of the woes, 

The woes, and all the wounds that vrere to be. 

Or now again, 

After the rain. 

Earth like that early garden shines, 

Vested in vines. 

Oh, green, green 

Eden is seen t 

After weeping skies 

Bising Paradise ; 

Umbrage twinkling new 

'Gainst the happy blue. 

God there for His pleasure, 

In divinest leisure, 

Walking in the sun. 

Which hath lately run ; 

While the birds sing clear and plain, 

Behind the bright withdrawing rain. 

Soon I shall perceive 

Naked glimmering Eve, 



APRIL 279 

Startled by the shower, 

Venture frora her bower, 

Looking for Adam under perilous sky ; 

While he hard by 

Emerges from the slowly dropping blooms 

And warm delicious glooms. 

April 10th. — This is a time when I always find, it a 
little difficult to keep, the conservatory next the drawing- 
room gay. The large Crinum is going off, and the Azaleas 
are rather a bad metallic colour, which kills everything else. 
Primula farinosa is a pretty thing if well grown ; Cineraria 
cruenta is in full bloom, but I must get some fresh seed, 
as the flowers have all become one shade, which they 
were not at first. A charming, sweet little shrub which 
looks something like a white Daphne is Pittosporum 
tobira ; it comes in usefully at this time. We have had 
in succession since January pots of Polygonatum 
(Solomon's Seals), and they all go out into the reserve 
bed to be taken up another time, so are not at all wasteful. 
I have never had Forsythia suspensa so good in the 
garden as this year. The shrub is one golden mass, and 
when picked in long branches and peeled it is quite 
admirable in water. I suppose its being so good is 
partly an accident of the weather, partly that after flower- 
ing last year it was cut back hard, and partly that we 
twisted black thread about it to prevent the birds eating 
the buds in February, which they invariably do here, both 
with this plant and with Prunus pissardi. Spircea 
thunbergi responds in the most delightful way to constant 
pruning. The more the dear little thing is cut, the better 
it seems to do. That is the real secret of all these early- 
flowering shrubs; they do not exhaust themselves then 
with leaf -making and growth. Under those shrubs where 
there are no Violets and no white Arabis, the common 
Lungwort (Pulmonaria) makes an exceedingly pretty 



28o MORE POT-POURRI 

ground-covering ; for instance, under a Lilac bush or any- 
deciduous shrub. This kind of spring gardening is only 
trouble, not expense, as all these plants divide into any 
numbers after flovrering, and take avray the bare look of a 
spring garden on light soils. When the leaves are out, 
the place they are in wants nothing and would grow 
nothing else. In fact, in these kinds of gardens the more 
the earth can be kept clothed and covered with light- 
rooting dwarf plants the better, as it saves weeding — 
always such a terrible business. 

Nothing, I think, tempts me so much to neglect all 
duties and to forget all ties as gardening in early spring 
weather. Everything is of such great importance, and 
the rush of work that one feels ought to be done without 
a moment's delay makes it, to me at least, feel the most 
necessary thing in hfe. A friend wrote to me once : ' The 
best thing in old age is to care for nothing but Nature, 
our real old mother, who will never desert us, and who 
opens her arms to us every spring and summer again, 
warm and young as ever, tiU at last we lie dead in her 
breast.' 

And another wrote : ' Serenity, serenity, serenity and 
light ! Surely this is the atmosphere of Olympus ; and if 
we cannot attain to it in age, in vain has our youth gone 
through the passionate toil and struggle of its upward 
journey to the divine summits.' 

These thoughts fit better the solitude of bursting 
woods in the real country than the cultivating mania in a 
small garden, where we are all tempted to fight against 
Erasmus's assertion : ' One piece of ground will not hold 
all sorts of plants.' 

A great deal of pleasure is to be got by striking 
cuttings of Oleanders in heat, and growing them on in a 
stove or greenhouse till the small plant flowers. I saw 
the other day a cutting of double pink Oleander struck last 



APRIL 28r 

summer, with the largest, finest blooms, both for colour 
and form, I have ever seen. It had been brought forward, 
of course, in considerable heat. Oleanders are now to be 
had of all colours, from the deepest red to palest pink and 
pure white. They strike easier in summer if the stalks of 
the cuttings are stuck in water for a few days before they 
are planted. 

I have lately been able to procure a book called ' The 
Insects of Great Britain,' by W. Lewin, 1795 — an 
ambitious and comprehensive title indeed, and only one 
volume of the series ever appeared. But Mr. Lewin 
began with the most attractive and showy of the insects, 
viz. butterflies. His plates are most beautiful and 
careful, even for that excellent period of hand-coloured 
illustration. I suppose that everyone knows the easy 
way to distinguish between butterflies and moths. In 
butterflies the antennae, or what children call ' horns,' are 
always knobbed, and in moths they are the same thick- 
ness to the end. When I was in Florence I saw an old 
fireplace decorated with most lovely tiles. I am not 
knowing enough to say if they were Dutch or Italian, but 
they were very pretty. There were lines, brown and yellow, 
round each tile, the inner lines cutting o£f the corners ; then 
a dainty little wreath of Olive branches and inside it a 
butterfly, the butterfly on every tile being difi'erent. The 
ground-colour of the tile was a creamy-white. This book 
would render the re-making of such tiles comparatively 
easy. 

Last summer (1898) a little book appeared called 
' "Where Wild Birds Sing,' by James E. Whiting, 
published by Sydney C. Mayle, 70 High Street, Hamp- 
stead. The writer is a real Nature lover. The motto of 
the book is from a speech by Gladstone, who said : ' I 
think the neglect of natural history was the grossest 
defect of our old system of training for the young ; and, 



282 MORE POT-POURRI 

further, that little or nothing has been done by way of 
remedy for that defect in the attempts made to alter or 
reform that system.' It is as a slight help in that 
direction that I name these charming modern natural 
history books, full of observation and love of Nature, told 
in the most simple way. This pretty little 'Invitation,' 
at the beginning of the book, seems to be written by a 
relative of the author, as it is signed ' S. Whiting ' : 

Come, leave the city's ioil and din, 

The weary strife, 
The cankering cares and sordid aims. 

That deaden life. 

Come, leave behind this restless rush. 

This anxious strain ; 
Dame Nature tenders healing balm 

For tired brain. 

Come, by yon grassy, shady lane 

Best tired eyes. 
On yonder meadows vernal green. 

On cloudless skies. 

Come to the woods, where Oak and Beech 

Their shadows fling. 
Come, weary toiler, rest awhile 

Where wild birds sing. 

I cannot understand anybody living in the country 
and not taking a special interest in birds — from the sky- 
lark, the smallest bird that soars, to the water wag-tail, 
the smallest bird that walks. The constant fight always 
goes on as to whether birds in a garden do good or harm. 
Nothing convinces my gardener that we do not suffer 
more than our neighbours from the non-killing of bull- 
finches. Poor little things 1 the harm they do is terribly 
more apparent than the good, which has to be taken on 
faith ; and this I do. 

As I stated before, I have lately been growing Water- 



APRIL 283 

cresses in pots and pans, with some measure of success. 
But I never feel my ignorance without looking about for 
some book which recounts an experience greater than 
my own. I have found a perfectly comprehensive little 
manual called ' Home Culture of the Watercress,' by 
Shirley Hibberd (B. W. Allen, 1878). Anyone interested 
in the subject should try and get this book. The reason 
of my comparative failure is that I did not stand the pans 
in receptacles that would hold water. Also "Watercresses 
are much better grown from small cuttings than from 
seed. Mr. Hibberd says that, if kept suf&ciently moist 
and grown in his way, in about twenty days or less one 
ought to be able to pick a nice dish of Cresses. There 
is no garden, however small or dry, if watering can be 
abundant, that cannot grow Watercresses in summer 
quite successfully as he recommends. The winter supply 
requires to be kept from frost. 

Prom the point of view of a real Cactus lover I am 
but a weak-kneed disciple. I confess that a greenhouse 
full of these plants in various stages of bumpiness and 
without a single flower, as is often the case, leaves me 
cold and rather depressed. But to grow a certain number 
is of very great interest to me. The power they have of 
clinging to life is shared by few plants. This accounts for 
the fact that some of the finest kinds may be seen occasion- 
ally in cottage windows. The most gratifying point about 
cottage- window gardening is that in it fashion is unknown. 
Plants are handed down from father to son, with a total 
disregard as to whether these are fashionable or not. For 
a lengthened period Cactuses have been a neglected 
family. Just lately magnificent groups have been ex- 
hibited by London nurserymen, so they are fast coming 
to the front again. 

Since writing my last book I have learnt by experience 
a gocid deal more about Cactus culture. In this country 



284 MORE POT-POURRI 

they require a kind of double treatment, according to 
whether you want them to grow or to flower. If you 
want small pieces to grow quickly, you must keep them 
most of the year in heat and well watered. If, on the other 
hand — and this especially applies to the hardier kinds — you 
want them to flower, you must starve them well through 
the winter. But I am sure that allowing them to shrivel 
from want of water is wrong. To prevent this, once the 
year is turned, I find occasional syringing better than 
much watering at the roots. Over-watering in winter 
generally means death, as they then rot at the crown. 
Sun they must have all through the summer. They are 
apt to be affected by a fungus bhght ; this must be cleaned 
off, of course. Like all the distinct plant families in 
Nature, the more we know about Cactuses the more 
interesting they are. I have a new sunny window which 
I am looking forward to fiUing with Cactuses this summer. 
I have there, now in a small pot, a red Phyllocactus (see 
Mr. W. Watson's ' Cactus Culture '), which has upon it two 
or three flowers in bloom and fifty-two buds. One of my 
correspondents was exceedingly sceptical about the same 
bloom of my night-flowering Cereus (see page 121 of my first 
book) having lasted in a cool dark hall for two nights ; but 
it certainly did. Last year I was away from home aU the 
precious summer months, so I do not know what happened 
to the ' bright-blooming Cereus, grand and glorious.' My 
correspondent adds that some years ago he got into a con- 
troversy with experts in ' The Gardener's Chronicle ' about 
these flowers, and one correspondent said that his Cereus 
remained in bloom six weeks. That must have been a very 
large plant with many blooms. Some of the most beautiful 
Cereuses are so large they only seem to flower well if 
planted in the open ground under glass. I think more than 
ever that it is worth while to grow Cactuses — for anyone 
who spends the summer at home. I am obliged to add this. 



APRIL 285 

as one says ' Do you take sugar or cream ? ' at teatime, for 
hardly anyone now does stay at home. Cactuses have a 
way of flowering when they choose. They will not wait for 
you if you are away, and their blooms only last a short 
time ; but when they do condescend to flower, the beauty 
of them is exquisite — far more rare and lovely than any 
Orchid that I know. I have lately been able to procure a 
book for which I have waited a long time, ' Bliihende 
Cacteen,' by Dr. Pfeiffer and P. E. Otto. It was published 
in Cassel (Germany) in 1843, and is a monograph on 
Cactuses, in two volumes bound in one. The prints are 
very well drawn, and the flowers hand-coloured. The 
text, unfortunately perhaps, is written only in German 
and French. 

For all who wish to increase their Phloxes, Michael- 
mas Daisies, and hardy Chrysanthemums, it is quite 
possible in this month or early in May not only to divide 
them, as I said before, but to take off the shoots and stick 
them in the gi'ound. This gives you the plants much 
less taU than if allowed to grow on the original root. 
Many of the herbaceous things will root in this way 
in spring. Cuttings of the white Everlasting Pea cer- 
tainly do. 

Gerasus pseudo-cerasus, as sold by Messrs. Veitch & 
Co., is very like Gerasus watereri in Mr. Eobinson's book. 
The whole family, and especially this one from Mr. 
Veitch, seem to me as well worth growing as anything I 
know among spring-flowering shrubs. 

April '2.0th. — We have walked this evening down to 
the old mill by the river Mole. I have, not unnaturally, 
a great affection for a watermill, as I passed all my child- 
hood so close to its thumping mysteries, and my bedroom 
window as a girl was just above the rushing mill-tail, 
where the brown trout lay under the Laurels. My old 
mill is all modernised and altered now, while here the 



286 MORE POT-POURRI 

miller says with pride : ' I have been here fifty-two years, 
and I grind the flour with the old stones — no modern 
china rollers for me ! ' We buy his flour — his ' seconds ' 
and his ' whole-meal ' — and his bran. The latter is what 
we really went down to fetch, as one of my nieces is fond 
of bran-water. This wildly stimulating beverage — far too 
much a tonic for my age — is an American drink. You 
pour cold water on two handf uls of fresh bran, let it stand 
for four hours, and then pour it off. It is supposed to 
contain some of the phosphates in the husks of the wheat, 
and consequently has much of the nourishing qualities of 
brown bread. 

April 26i/j. — Last year at this time I was able to go 
and hear at the Drill Hall, Westminster, Mr. Burbidge's 
exceedingly interesting address on ' Fragrant Leaves and 
Sweet-smelhng Mowers.' This lecture has since been 
published in the ' Journal ' of the Horticultural Society 
for October 1898. 

Beyond wishing to remind others how much pleasure 
and instruction one gets from being a Pellow of the Eoyal 
Horticultural Society, I take a sentence from his lecture 
which seems useful and desirable for all gardeners. He 
says : ' I want you to rate all fragrant foliage quite as 
highly as you now profess to value sweet-scented blossoms. 
I also want to point out some of the essential differences, 
and advantages even, of foliage leaves as opposed to those 
floral leaves we call flowers. I am also particularly 
anxious to try and show that there is a sanitary basis, 
rather than a merely sensuous reason, for the usage of 
sweet odours and vegetable perfumes, whether the same 
be fresh or dried, living, dead, or distilled. Modern re- 
searches have amply proved that ozone is developed when 
the sun shines on most kinds of fragrant plants, such as 
flowers, Mr and Pine trees, and sweet herbs generally.' 
It is not much trouble to sow Lemon pips, and yet what 



APRIL 287 

is more delicious and reviving than the crushed leaf of a, 
Lemon-tree ? 

I have found my increased number of Eosemary 
bushes a great joy. They live everywhere with the slight 
protection before described — namely, stuffed in all sorts 
of places under shrubs. But to grow and flower to 
perfection, as they do in Italy, they want to be under a wall 
in a warm corner, and fairly well nourished. No doubt 
their tendency to be killed in hard springs in the open 
must be the reason that so many gardens, especially 
small ones, where they are most precious, are content to 
do without them. 

Many books and periodicals praise the old customs of 
using aromatic herbs, but in old days the smells they had 
to conceal must indeed have been innumerable. I suppose, 
unless by reading the accounts of how Eussian peasants 
live even now, we cannot have any idea what England — 
and indeed all Europe — was, as regards dirt, two centuries 
ago. Our sweet modern homes are very different. All 
the same, how many houses are disagreeable from the 
smell of cooking which pervades them ! Burning dry 
Lavender, dried Eosemary, dried Cedar-wood, or the 
essential oils of any of these, entirely does away with this 
nuisance, from which we have most of us suffered. Burn- 
ing things of this kind is also most useful in cases of colds, 
influenzas, etc. Putting a piece of stale bread into the 
saucepan when Cabbages are being boiled prevents their 
smelling at all. This is pretty well known, but seldom 
practised ; and the fact is, what causes the nasty smell to 
pervade a house is not so much boiling the Cabbages, but 
throwing the water while still hot down the sink. This 
should never be done till the water has cooled. 

Cultivating the art of smelhng has certainly been 
neglected of late, which for every reason is a mistake, as 
the absence of a sense is a sign of defective health ; and if 



288 MORE POT-POURRI 

children's smell were tested, it would be noticed when 
deficient and the reasons would be diagnosed. In healthy 
children the power of smell is often very acute. To the 
blind, sweet-smelUng leaves are more valuable than sweet- 
smeUing flowers, which they cannot see ; and the leaves 
last longer, pack easier, and would be much appreciated 
in hospitals for eye diseases. 

Another very interesting letter I received about my 
last book I will quote : ' I am simply writing with the 
object of calling your attention to a group of plants which 
I have in my small way been cultivating for years, and 
which give me great pleasure every summer. I refer to 
the night-flowering and night-scented plants. To a busi- 
ness man Uke myself they are specially welcome, as my 
time is all occupied with business during the day, and the 
evening only is left in which we can enjoy our gardens. 
The most interesting in the group is that exquisite Utile gem 
of an annual, Schizopetalum Walkeri. It has no English 
name unfortunately; you will find it in Wilham Thomp- 
son's catalogue. This little flower is pure ivory-white, of 
a Maltese cross form, and after dark throws out a most 
delicate perfume, not unlike the Almond. I also sow a 
packet or two of Matthiola bicornis, or Sweet-scented Stock. 
It is powerfully fragrant after dusk, and is of a pleasant 
character. Then I have a few plants of Nicotiana affinis 
scattered about the garden. These you will know better 
than myself. There is also the Hesperis tristis, which 
I find somewhat difficult to grow here [Manchester]. 
Also CEnothera odorata, another of the type. So that 
here you have a small group of plants which kindly 
reserve their fragrance, store it up during the daytime, 
and then considerately during the twilight and evening, 
when the breadwinner of the family comes home after 
his day's toil, throw out their precious odours and make 



APRIL 289 

the garden all the pleasanter and more refreshing for the 
night stroll after supper.' 

April 28th. — Some years ago I was anxious to grow 
some Florist Auriculas, but I must frankly own we were 
never very successful. They took too much frame-room 
and wanted too much care ; but for anyone who likes to 
grow special flowers in a small space I cannot imagine 
anything more interesting than Auricula growing. The 
following directions were written out for me by a most sue- 
•cessful Auricula grower, and they may prove very useful 
to some few people who are fond of these flowers : 

' The fancy or Florist's Auricula is divided into green 
edges, gray edges, white edges, and selfs. These flowers 
should be grown in pots. One of the most famous growers 
(and a man of high class, although his station is only 
that of a Sheffield workman) is Ben Simonite. According 
to him a compost of two parts fibrous loam, one part old 
hot-bed manure, one part old leaf -mould, with sufficient 
charcoal the size of split peas to keep the soil open, is 
suitable. This should be put together in the autumn, 
and turned over frequently during the winter. The right 
time for re-potting is after the bloom is over ; at this 
moment (early in April) my earhest plants are in bloom. 
"When potted, the plants require occasional watering, but 
freedom from drenching rains. If by chance over-much 
watered, time should be allowed for this excess to pass 
away, and the plants not watered again until quite dry, 
although not flagging. Little else is needed, save to 
remove decaying foliage and keep down the aphis or 
green fly. All the summer and until November the 
plants may remain in the open air, save when they are 
protected from heavy rains. Early in November they go 
into a cold frame, but ventilated by day whenever the 
weather is at all fine. Water should be given seldom, but 

u 



290 MORE POT-POURRI 

sufficiently when given at all. Great dryness will be 
endured without damage, but there is a point which must 
not be overpassed. Towards the end of January life revives, 
and water is more needful. Prior to this, if it be possible, 
the pots should be so placed as to receive what light 
there is, which accelerates the resumption of growth. 
About the middle of February, if the growth is evidently 
progressing, the plant should be top-dressed with compost, 
rather stronger than that used in planting — so fuUy that 
side-shoots may be able to root into the top-dressing. On 
these offsets depend the reproduction of named kinds. 
From seed new varieties may be raised, but the offspring 
are often very unlike the parents. In March the flower- 
stems begin to rise, and during April the plants flower. 
In this month the annual exhibition at the Kensington 
Horticultural takes place. It is important to protect the 
plants in severe weather by means of matting, also against 
cutting winds ; but they are hardy, and their great risk is 
not cold, but rotting through excessive moisture, which, 
affecting the foUage, attacks the neck of the plant if 
decaying leaves be not picked off.' 

Alpine Auriculas are easily grown from seed, and 
require much less care (see ' EngUsh Flower Garden '). 

I am often asked what my vegetable-seed biU amounts 
to. The fact is, I never know. Seeds are so cheap that I 
get what I want. Where the waste comes in is in sowing 
them in too large quantities at one time, instead of in 
succession, not thinning out, etc. It is always worth 
while to sow all useful vegetables several times over, 
whether in spring or summer. 

The ordinary amateur feels the extreme difficulty of 
growing flower-seeds either in boxes or even out of doors, 
and says that in the end it is decidedly cheaper to buy 
plants. This is, of course, true of all the strong-growing 
herbaceous things. But every gardener soon finds that if 



APRIL 291 

you want any quantity of one thing, or if the plant is not 
particularly suited to the soil, it is infinitely better to grow 
the plants from seed than to buy one or two specimens^ 
which constantly die. ' I would always advise beginners 
to try sowing seeds in little squares in the seed bed. It 
is only by this process that they can learn what does well 
from seed and what does not. Seed beds in April should 
be in different aspects — some cool and damp, and some dry 
and sunny, according to the nature of the plant sown and 
the country it comes from — and left, only weeded, for one 
or two years. I am quite sure no garden will ever look 
full and varied all the year round without a great number 
of plants being grown from seed. It is a later stage of 
gardening, that is all, just as collecting and saving your 
own seed is a later stage still. 

I saw the other day in a Suffolk newspaper some 
observations on seed-sowing under glass. They seemed 
to me so useful just at this time of year that I copied part 
of the article : ' Sowing seeds may to the superficial 
observer seem a simple affair ; yet it is one of the most 
important operations in gardening. There is a great 
difference even amongst gardeners in raising plants from 
seed. One may succeed with all kinds of seeds, providing 
the seed is good; whereas another gardener will have 
the greatest difficulty even in getting ordinary seeds to 
germinate. Of course, the kind of seeds I mean are choice 
greenhouse, stove, or Alpine. My experience teaches me 
that a great many failures are the result of sowing the 
seed too early in the year. The particular seeds I mean 
are those sown early in spring, either of plants for 
conservatory decoration or to bloom in flower beds and 
borders during the coming summer. Take, for example, 
those charming greenhouse flowers the Cape Primrose 
{Streptocarpus). Sow this seed in January, and the greatest 
difficulty is experienced in getting it to germinate ; but jf 

u2 



392 MORE POT-POURRI 

sown in April, it will germinate as easily as Lobelia. But 
perhaps giving choice seeds daily — nay, I might almost say 
hourly — attention is the most important point of all. The 
seed may be sown at the proper time and be placed in a 
suitable place ; the soil may be everjrthing to be desired ; 
in fact, everything used — pots, pans, boxes, and drainage — 
may be all right, yet if they do not receive proper attention 
for days, weeks, and months before the seed grows, and 
after as the case may be, failure will surely follow such 
neglect. This attention means keeping the compost in 
that happy condition which is neither wet nor yet too 
dry.' 

Sometimes it is a help to put a little wet Sphagnum 
moss on the top of the pot under the piece of glass, or the 
pot may be covered with paper. The great thing to aim 
at with all seeds, whether large or small, is to try to keep 
the soil sufficiently moist, without having to water them 
until they begin to grow. This is difficult, well-nigh 
impossible, with those seeds which are a long time in 
the soil before they germinate. Still, this is what should 
be aimed at. Once they are up, it is necessary to water 
very gently. A good way is to put a small piece of 
sponge in the hole at the bottom of a flower-pot, and then 
fill the pot with water of the same temperature as the 
greenhouse, and move it about so that the water dribbles 
gently through. With large seeds it is always a good plan 
to soak them twenty-four hours in tepid water before 
sowing them. An excellent way of handHng very small 
seedUngs is to take a little bit of bamboo, bend it in two 
like a pair of tweezers, and lay the seedlings on a piece 
of paper ; it is then quite easy to handle the smallest 
seedlings without injury. 

The three or four weeks of severe frosty weather in 
March has made us very short of vegotables. I never 
buy when I have not guests, as feeling the pinch makes 



APRIL 293 

one alive to one's deficiencies, and causes one to manage 
better another year. So I thought I would try and see 
how I liked the root we grow for the cows. We have 
plenty left, as the winter has been so mild. It is Sutton's 
Mangold Wurzel, a yellow kind. We boiled it till tender, 
whole like a beetroot, and when hot cut it into slices, 
and ate it with cold butter. It was excellent. In texture 
it was like a Beetroot ; in taste, half like a sweet Potato, 
half like a Chestnut. When Mangolds are young they 
mash like Turnips. 

Early this month Hops begin to show through the 

ground. When the shoots are about six or eight inches 

high, before the leaves develop, they can be picked, tied 

together in a bundle, and cooked exactly like green 

Asparagus. They have not much taste, but are pleasant 

in substance, and are supposed on the Continent to be 

exceedingly wholesome. A vegetable called ' Good King 

Henry ' is worth growing to eat in the same way, and later 

the leaves cook like Spinach. 

/^rb---i|also worth knowing that at this time of year, 

/when vegefeWes are scarce in the country, the fresh 

/ green leaves of EKafeaE^— generally thrown away — make 

I an excellent vegetable dresse(3>l^ke Spinach, either with^ 

\or without a little butter. 

One of the great difficulties in a light soil is a con- 
tinuous supply of Spinach, and gardeners never wiU sow 
a sufficient succession in dry weather, when it must be 
watered. It has a great tendency to run to seed. In 
Sutton's book ' The Culture of Vegetables and Elowers ' 
he faces the difficulty and gives instruction for its remedy 
very efficiently. No other Spinach approaches in excellence 
the real one, Spinacia oleracea ; but for an extension of 
the supply two others should be grown in every fair-sized 
kitchen garden. The New Zealand Spinach {Tetragonia 
expansa) flourishes in the hottest weather, and is best 



294 MORE POT-POURRI 

started in a bos under glass. The perpetual Spinach or 
Spinach Beet (Beta cicla) is a most valuable plant for its 
continuous supply of leaves. Sutton says : ' When the 
leaves are ready for gathering they must be removed, 
whether wanted or not, to promote continuous growth.' 
This is the case vnth a good many vegetables — Garden 
Cress, Watercress, Chicory, etc. I shall give special atten- 
tion this year to sowing Spinach in all sorts of places. 
Aspect and shade make so much difference in the rapidity 
with which things grow ! 

Purslane is a vegetable often not sown in EngUsh 
gardens, but it makes a good summer salad, and is useful 
in soup or dressed as Spinach. 

Last year I tried growing several kinds of Potatoes — 
five or six varieties recommended by Sutton — but I do not 
think any txirned out better than, if as well as, Sutton's 
' Magnum Bonum,' which we have grown for years. ' Eing- 
leader ' is the one we grow for the first early Potatoes ; and 
a red waxy Potato, whose name I do not know, is most 
useful for cooking in some ways. All must find out 
for themselves what Potatoes suit their soils best, as it 
is a subject Reserving every attention and care. 

The small, round button Onions so much used abroad 
are often omitted in EngUsh gardens, though they are 
merely the result of not thinning out the crop at all. Choose 
a piece of poor, dry ground ; make this fine on the surface ; 
sow in the month of April, thickly but evenly; cover lightly ; 
roll or tread, to give a firm seed-bed. If sown shallow, the 
bulbs will be round. Besides looking much prettier when 
braised, this small kind keeps much better through the 
winter than when made to grow large by thinning. 

We grow two kinds of Sorrel now — one with a small 
round leaf, and the other the large-leaved ordinary garden 
kind. It is quite easy, for those who like the vegetable, to 
lift plants in the spring and grow them on in a frame 



APRIL 29s 

or greenhouse. It is a thing there is always difficulty 
about buying, and it is not much liked by English people. 
It wants to be freshly gathered and well dressed. 

There are endless numbers of books on poultry 
within the reach of everybody; and lately in Ward, 
Lock & Co.'s collection of penny handbooks, one has 
been issued on poultry which is quite useful. But, like 
all modern books, it is a little above the ordinary keeper 
of cocks and hens for domestic purposes, making the 
matter appear unnecessarily difficult. Having a good big 
field for them to run in here, and the soil being dry and 
light, I have not had disease amongst my poultry. 
Among the Ust of horrible diseases given in this penny 
book we come to the following sentence : ' Egg-eating. — 
This is rather a vice than a disease, and very troublesome 
to cure.' The author then gives a cruel account of 
punishment to be used, in the hopes of disgusting the 
offender. This is an excellent instance of the trend of 
modern thought. Egg-eating is, I am sure, solely the 
result of giving the poor hens an insufficient quantity of 
the food required by Natm-e to make their shells hard. 
Disease among animals is much the same as among 
people, and is produced often by large quantities of food, 
but of an improper kind. Diseased poultry means over- 
crowding, over-feeding — in fact, the fault lies in the way 
they are managed. Hereditary vice may, we hope, in 
hens at any rate, be left out of the question. Another 
thing the author suggests is that when a fowl is killed 
the entrails should be given to the pigs. This is abso- 
lutely wrong in my opinion, as pigs are essentially 
vegetarians, and unclean feeding is apt to make them 
diseased, which is very serious for the eaters of pork. 

One is always being asked. Does keeping poultry pay ? 
I never keep strict accounts of what things cost me. 
Nothing one does at home ever pays, unless one looks 



296 MORE POT-POURRI 

into it entirely oneself. I only bring the rules of ordinary 
common-sense and proportion to bear on the matter. 

For early egg-laying it is, I think, desirable to have 
some of the southern breeds, such as Leghorns, Spanish, 
etc. 

I know very little about my own poultry, as I cannot 
make pets of things that have to be killed, and they are 
entirely managed by my gardener and his wife. The 
following is their account of what they do, and they 
certainly have been very successful : ' We set the hens- 
as early in January as we can on about nine eggs, as the 
weather is cold ; on thirteen eggs later, being careful that 
the eggs should not have been frosted. We make the 
nests of hay in the henhouse, which is a warm one. The 
early-hatched chicks are best for autumn killing, as they 
begin to lay about July for a short time, and then stop 
laying till the next spring. The sitting hens are fed once 
a day on barley, about a handful to each hen ; the little 
chickens on grits the first day, and then on oatmeal about 
every three hours. When they are about a fortnight old 
they have a little barley in the middle of the day. The 
mother hen is kept cooped up away from the other fowls 
till the chicks are about six weeks old, when they all run 
in the field. March- and April-hatched birds we keep for 
stock, as they make the best fowls and layers about 
October. We shut up the pullets in a run for laying. 
We keep no hens older than two years, and have fresh 
cockerels every year. We feed the stock-fowls twice 
a day — on soft food in the morning, and barley in the 
afternoon. The fowl-houses are white-washed every spring, 
and kept cleaned out twice a week, and the floors dusted 
with slack lime. The fowls have a good field to run in, 
so they get plenty of grass. The shut-up pullets require 
plenty of grit and greenstuff, and they are fond of a 
Mangold to pick at. Fowls are very fond of bones 



APRIL 297 

or scraps, or anything that amuses them. It is very bad 
for fowls to be dull. When we see a fowl not eating or 
not looking well, we keep it apart for a day or two, give 
it a dose of castor oil, and, if not soon better, we kiU and 
bury it.' I am sure this is a better plan than trying to 
doctor sick birds. I know no more miserable sight than 
unhealthy poultry. We rear a few ducks every year, 
but kill them in the summer, as they are great consumers 
of food. 

In October I always buy, as I have said before, three or 
four young turkeys, and have them fed here for Christmas- 
time. It saves three or four shillings on each bird. Any 
fowls that are going to be killed ought to be shut up for 
twelve hours without food. Turkeys and geese require 
rather longer. Home-grown poultry is much better not 
plucked or cleaned out till just before cooking. Very 
young chickens are best eaten quite freshly killed. 

For Preserving" Egg's. — Put some fresh eggs in 
a large basin or jar and pour lime-water over them. 
Two days after, take out the eggs and look through them 
carefully. Put away those which are at all cracked. 
Those which are quite in good condition put into a 
second jarful of lime-water, and stand this jar in the 
cellar. See that the eggs are always covered by the 
lime-water. They will keep for quite six months or more. 
The first jarful of lime-water can be used to try another 
lot of eggs. 

This is another and even simpler way of preserving 
eggs, which we find answers perfectly well here: Pill 
a small shallow bos deep enough to cover the eggs — 
cardboard does quite well — with chaff. Put the fresh 
eggs, just laid, into this with the points downwards. Tie 
on the Ud ; and when you have more than one box, they 
can be tied together as they fill. The whole reason of 
this plan is that the box should be reversed once every 



298 MORE POT-POURRI 

twenty-four hours. If this is really done, the eggs keep 
perfectly fresh for weeks — so fresh that they are not to be 
distinguished from new-laid eggs, except that they poach 
beautifully ; which, as everyone knows, a new-laid egg 
does not, any more than a stale one. If the boxes are 
tied together, it is no trouble turning them over beyond 
remembering it. The natural history of this is that 
when the egg is laid the germ is alive, and if the egg lays 
on its side the germ is not only alive, but grows for many 
days. When the germ in the egg has consumed its 
nourishment, it dies from cold, and instantly the egg goes 
bad. By putting the eggs end downwards, and turning 
them daily, the germ dies at once and never grows, and 
the egg remains good. Many wiU not believe this. I can 
only say ' Try it.' If you either turn the box yourself, or 
have anyone you can depend upon to do it for you, you 
will not find that it fails. 

If you rub perfectly fresh-laid eggs with butter, they 
keep for a long time. If they have been laid twelve 
hours before the butter is applied it is no good. 
Mrs. Eoundell says this receipt is of no use : perhaps 
because she has not tried it with fresh enough eggs. 

The word ' egg ' reminds me of such an extremely funny 
anecdote in Mr. Max Miiller's ' Auld Lang Syne ' that I 

must crib it. A certain Duke of M , being very fond 

of natural history, was much interested in some emus 
which he possessed. Having occasion to go to tovm, his 
agent wired to him : ' The emu has laid an egg. In 
your Grace's absence we have taken the largest goose we 
could find to hatch it.' 

I am told that the receipts both in my former book and 
those in ' Dainty Dishes ' were considered extravagant. 
I have now found a cheap little book, called ' Economical 
Cookery,' by Kate Addison, which meets the want and is 
true to its name. At the end are two or three most 



APRIL 299 

useful hints. If you want your onions to fry a good 
colour, do not peel them. Another hint is that if you 
boil corks for five minutes before using them they fit in 
the bottles much tighter, and so preserve what is inside 
much better. 

There is a French confectioner named De Bry (45 
Southampton Eow, and New Oxford Street, London), 
whom I have only lately got to know, and who has the 
excellent device : ' Vendre bon pour vendre beaucoup.' 
He sells jams which will be highly appreciated by that 
increasing class — jam-eaters. I recommend this motto to 
all those who bottle fruit and make jams, especially in our 
colonies. I have been lately given a large sample of West 
Indian jams, but they are not up. to the mark. I should 
imagine there was a great opening for all kinds of pre- 
served fruits, syrups, jams, etc., from abroad, where so 
many excellent fruits grow almost wild. But they never 
can be a commercial success if not done carefully. They 
must look pleasant to the eye, be juicy, and not too sweet. 
The French alone seem to have the art of knowing how 
to bottle and preserve fruit. I can buy in London bottled 
French raspberries, not preserved in sugar at all, and as 
fresh and good as if newly gathered from a garden ; indeed, 
better than from my garden, where in dry seasons rasp- 
berries always fail. 



300 MORE POT-POURRI 



MAY 

The ' French Sugar Pea ' — The ' Westminster Gazette ' on Tulips — 
The legend of the Crown Imperial— Article on ' Sacred Trees and 
Flowers ' — Peeling of Poppies — Cooking receipts — Books on 
Florence— Mr. Gladstone on travelling — Journey to Italy — 
Arrival at Arcetri. 

May 1st. — Gorse thoroughly peeled and wedged (see first 
volume) lasts for weeks in water, and the warmth of the 
room makes the flower come out so well it is almost a 
different-looking plant. 

In these light soils all the fruit-trees over-flower them- 
selves so much, like pot-bound plants, that no one need 
scruple to pick branches of blossom to put in water in 
the house. The trees can never carry even the fruit that 
sets. 

The evergreens are beginning their spring shoots. I 
think it must have been at about this time of year, when 
the young leaves on the Holly have no spines, that 
Southey wrote : 

All vain asperities, day by day, would wear away, 
Till the smooth temper of my age should be 
Like the high leaves upon the Holly Tree. 

A book published in 1857, called ' Curiosities of 
Natural History,' by Francis T. Buckland, is very in- 
terestingly written, and will be found full of information 
on all sorts of subjects — from the anatomy of the water- 
rat to Virgil's description of the death of Laocoon. 

At this time of year, when the frame double Violets 



MAY 301 

are over, which do so well for finger-bowl bouquets in 
spring, I find a plant or two of Nicotiana affinis sown in 
the autumn and grown in the greenhouse very useful. 
One flower cut off with a branch of Prince of Orange 
Geranium or a piece of Sweet Verbena — of which there 
ought to be plenty now, if they have been properly grown 
on — make charming little bouquets for this purpose. 

The gardener of a friend of mine sowed some self- 
saved seed of Nemesia strumosa in September in a pan, 
pricking them off twice — the second time a single plant 
in a small pot. The result was some charming well- 
grown plants, which flowered beautifully in April, and 
the flowers were larger and finer than the summer ones 
out of doors. 

The French ' Mange-tout ' Peas (Sutton catalogues them 
as ' French Sugar Peas ') are not yet sown generally enough 
in England. EngHsh cooks do not understand (and how 
should they without explanation?) that they are not 
shelled, but the pod and the pea are boiled together, and 
a little butter added before serving. 

In the 'Westminster Gazette' of last spring there 
was an interesting article on the history of Tulips, called 
forth by the Tulip show at the Eoyal Botanic Gardens 
and the general revival of interest in the flower, which 
has as romantic a history as any plant all the world over. 
The article being too long to quote here entirely, I give a 
few extracts : ' In the seraglio of the Shadow of God, 
when the world was a few centuries younger, there was 
one festival in early spring which for dazzling splendour 
outshone the rest of the Eastern fairylike night scenes. 
Unnumbered artificial suns, moons, and stars lit up the 
Sultan's beautiful gardens, and in the mystic light which 
turned night into day tens of thousands of Tulips stood 
■ proudly up on their tall slim stalks, the goblet of each 
, blossom perfect in form, and in colour. Among this 



302 MORE POT-POURRI 

dazzling dream the Sultan and his harem, and whoever 
else was great and mighty at the Court of Constantinople, 
worshipped at the shrine of the Tulip, and the whole of 
the East echoed the praise of the thouliban, or turban 
flower, the corruption of which term has become our 
name for the flower. 

• The West at that period knew nothing of the Tulip 
though it had been great in the East for more years than 
men remembered. India, Persia, and the Levant had in 
the course of ages woven around it countless legends of 
love and life and death ; great poets sang its praises ; the 
heathen laid it at the feet of his gods, and the early 
Christian of the East pointed to it as the " Lily of the 
field " which afforded to Christ the subject of a divine 
sermon to which the world has clung, and still is clinging 
as to a never-failing help when the burden of life grows 
heavy. 

'In the sixteenth century an ambassador of the 
Emperor of Germany to the Sublime Porte, going from 
Adrianople to Constantinople shortly after mid-winter, 
came upon a wondrous sight. On the roadside, among 
the weeds and grasses, there rose in glorious beauty clump 
after clump, bed after bed, of tall goblet-shaped flowers. 
As the sun shone upon them they blazed with the colour 
of fire and sunlight, and the smooth broad petals formed 
a deep cup classically simple and perfect, closing over a 
heart of gold. 

' Before long a few Tulip bulbs reached Germany, and 
thence in 1577 came to England.' 

"We all know how Tulips were then taken up by 
Dutchmen. The article says that for the three years from 
1634 to 1637 Holland was but a large asylumful of tulipo- 
maniacs. I have just been told how that in one vineyard 
in Alsace, and in one alone, the pretty wild tulip Tulipa 
reflexa flourishes abundantly. I think more might be 



MAY 303 

done by planting in England the type Tulips, and leaving 
them to their fate, especially on chalky soils, which they 
seem to like. 

The Crown Imperials are nearly over. They have not 
been as good as usual this year ; the hard frosts in March 
blackened their poor crowns. A kind correspondent was 
shocked at my non-botanical language in speaking of the 
beads of liquid in the hanging flowers as water, not honey. 
I merely -meant that they looked like pure water. He 
writes : ' I think on examination you will find them honey. 
As you do not mention it, you may not know of the legend 
in connection with this flower, which is as follows. Please 
forgive me if a twice-told tale : When our Lord in His 
agony was walking in the Garden of Gethsemane, all the 
flowers save this one alone bowed their heads in sym- 
pathetic sorrow. It held its head aloft in supreme 
disdain ; whereupon our Lord gently rebuked it. Smitten 
with shame at last, it hung its head, and since then has 
never been able to raise it, and those who care to turn its 
face upwards always find tears in its eyes.' He closed his 
letter vrith the following practical hint : ' For protective 
purposes^ — shelters — you may find the bamboo baskets in 
which moist' sugar is sent from South America, about 
three .feet high and nearly six feet round, when split 
open on one side and flattened out make good light 
shelters.' 

I am very fond of reading old 'Bdinburghs' and 
' Quarterlies,' and one is apt to find in them a helpful con- 
tribution to anything that one may have been thinking 
about. This happened to me the other day when, taking 
up the ' Quarterly Eeview ' for July 1863, 1 came upon a 
most fascinating article, full of folk-lore and tradition, 
called ' Sacred Trees and Mowers.' I should delight in 
quoting several of the stories, but room fails me. Work- 
ing through all the older traditions of Europe, the writer 



304 MORE POT-POURRI 

gives Ml credit, as is due, to the monks, and says : ' To 
the Benedictines and Cistercians — the first great agricul- 
turists of Europe and the first great gardeners, the true 
predecessors of the Hendersons and Veitohes of our own 
day — we are indebted for many of the well-loved flowers 
that will always keep their places, in spite of their gayer, 
but less permanent, modern rivals. The Wallflower, that 
" scents the dewy air " about the ruined arches of its con- 
vent ; the scarlet Anemone, that flowers about Easter-tide, 
and is called in Palestine the blood-drops of Christ ; the 
blossoming Almond-tree, one of the symbols of the Virgin, 
and the Marigold that received her name, are but a few 
of the old friends, brought long ago from Syria by some 
pilgrim monk, and spread from his garden over the whole 
of Europe. ... In the cloistered garden, too, the monk 
was wont to meditate on the marvels of the plants that 
surrounded him, and to find all manner of mysterious 
emblems in their marks and tracings. Many displayed 
the true figure of the Cross. It might be seen in the 
centre of the red poppy ; and there was a " Zucca " (fig) at 
Eome, in the garden of the Cistercian Convent of Santa 
Potentiana, the fruit of which, when cut through, showed 
a green cross inlaid on the white pulp, and having at its 
angles five seeds, representing the five wounds. . . . The 
Banana, in the Canaries, is never cut with a knife because 
it also exhibits a representation of the Crucifixion, just as the 
Eern-root shows an Oak-tree.' But the fame of the greatest 
of aU such marvels arrived at Eome in the year 1609, when 
Bosio describes as maraviglioso fiore the Passion Elower of 
the New World. The first to describe the Passion Elower in 
England was our own Master Parkinson, who said that it 
. should be assigned to that ' bright Occidental star. Queen 
Elizabeth, and be named in memory of her the Virgin 
Climber.' The Passion Flower, however, has retained 
its original name and significance. It is the ons great 



MAY 305 

contribution of the Western Hemisphere to the symbolical 
flowers of Christendom ; and its starhke blossoms have 
taken a worthy place beside the mystical Eoses and Trefoils 
of ecclesiastical decoration. 

When I replanted the Ornithogalum pyramidale in 
September last year, I planted between them some pieces 
of Galega officinalis, so easily divided in the autumn. The 
fresh bright green makes a groundwork for the long 
spikes of the bulbs, and later it gives a succession of 
flowers of its own pretty white or pale lilac. In dry 
seasons it is most useful for picking. In one place I find 
it is growing quite successfully. In a more shaded 
corner under a wall — no sun reaching it in winter — every 
plant of the Galega has died. I merely mention this as 
one more instance of how the hardiest plants do well or not 
within a few yards of each other. I saw in a friend's garden 
to-day Alstrcemerias growing like weeds all over the place. 
I remarked on this. ' Yes,' she said, ' it's quite true. For 
five years I had never been able to get one seed to grow, 
and the plants I bought invariably died. Now I have so 
many that I must dig them out with a spade.' 

I do not think I mentioned before that all kinds of 
Poppies travel beautifully if they are gathered in bud ; and 
if on arrival the hard husk is peeled off from the buds, 
they revive and flower and last longer. Forcing open the 
buds exhausts the flowers, and then they open but to fade 
and die. The Shirley and Iceland Poppies are prepared in 
this way for the London market. Some of the Campanula 
tribe do best dry and starved ; they flower well instead of 
going to leaf. This is especially the case with the little 
0. cmspitosa and with G. grandis, which is so useful for 
covering the ground under shrubs and in bare dry places. 
C. pyramidalis, though it likes half-shade, enjoys a rich, 
rather moist place. The C. persicifolia is never quite so 
beautiful here as I have seen it on stiff soils. 



o 



06 MORE POT-POURRI 



It is well in spring and early summer to make constant 
cuttings of the white Swainsonia. It does well out of 
doors and in, and is a very refined, pretty little plant. 

Eeceipts 

To Cook Spagrhetti (small Italian macaroni). — Put 
some bacon-fat, or any pieces of fat, in a saucepan 
with onions, carrots, herbs, etc., all chopped up, and 
a little sugar. Pry them slightly. Pour off the fat. 
Cut up some tomatoes, add a little stock, and simmer 
it aU together tiU the tomatoes are cooked. Pass the 
whole through a sieve, so that the sauce may be quite 
smooth. Boil the spaghetti separately till quite tender, 
then drain off the water, and mix with the tomato sauce. 
If cheese is liked, mix in some grated Parmesan the 
last thing before serving ; also a little fresh butter, which 
can be added without the cheese if preferred. 

Italian Way of Dressing a Cabbage with a Hard 
Heart. — Plunge the cabbage into boiling water. Take 
out the heart, cut it into ribbons. Mix with it bacon, 
chopped meat or game, onion, garlic, parsley, herbs, and 
above all some Gruyfere and Parmesan cheese — in fact, 
almost anything. Bind this mixture with egg. Eeplace 
it in the cabbage, and tie it up well to prevent the stuffing 
from escaping. Boil fast till done. Serve with a brown or 
white sauce, or butter only. 

Another Risotto a la Milanaise. — Italian rice is the 
best of all, though rather difficult to get. It is different 
from either Carolina or Patna. PaiUng it, boU half 
a pound of best Carolina rice. When it is about half 
cooked, drain it off and replace it in stevypan. Add a 
good quarter of a pound of butter, stand it on the side 
of the stove, allow it to fry gently till the rice is quite 
done, stirring very frequently to prevent burning, which it 
will do unless constant attention is given. Then mix about 



MAY 307 

half a pint of good deinie glaze de volaille, or, if that should 
not be convenient, a little ordinary half -glaze. Add about 
a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan, some tongue cut 
to size of a shilling, and about four or five trufiSes cut in 
sUces, also bits of chicken the size of a shilling. Season 
to taste, and serve very hot in a silver souffle-dish, with a 
very little Parmesan grated over the top. It is an im- 
provement as a change vyith risotto to press it into a 
round basin and turn it out before serving. 

A very good way of cooking young potatoes is to put 
them into a black frying-pan, whole, in hot butter. Cover 
them up, and let them cook for an hour. This does very 
well for small old potatoes also. 

A very creamy jmr&e of potatoes (see ' Dainty Dishes ') 
put into scallop-shells and browned in the oven, handed 
round with roast mutton, is rather a pretty change. 

Fresh summer spinach, plain boiled and chopped (not 
too fine), and rolled in the middle of a large pancake is 
excellent. 

A good ^wree of sorrel (see ' Dainty Dishes ') with 
small Asparagus cut up into little pieces is an excellent 
May or June dish. 

Asparagus Salad. — Thin boiled asparagus cut up 
into short lengths (pointes d'asperges) and mixed with oil 
and lemon-juice makes a nice salad. It is much improved 
by the addition of an apple (' New Zealand ') peeled and 
cut up into thin Julienne shreds. 

When apples get scarce and tasteless in the spring, a 
very good ' Charlotte ' can be made in exactly the same way 
as ' Apple Charlotte ' (see ' Dainty Dishes '), by making a 
smooth purie from stewed sun-dried apricots, to be had 
of all London grocers and Stores. 

A good cookery book is called ' A Younger Son's 
Cookery Book, by a Younger Son's daughter ' (Eichard 
Bentley & Son). 



3o8 MORE POT-POURRI 

May 22nd. — When I made up my mind last year to 
go to Florence I thought I would try and collect a few 
appropriate books to enlighten my ignorance and refresh 
my memory. I asked my friends what I should take, 
merely reminding them that Mr. Hare's volumes on Italy 
and George Eliot's ' Eomola ' had naturally occurred to 
myself. I got very little help before I went; but by 
degrees, during the month I was in Florence and since 
my return, I have collected and read several books which 
I should have been glad to have had last year, and which 
may help those who go straight from a busy home life 
and take a short trip to Florence. Of course the litera- 
ture on Florence is so enormous, and people's taste in 
books differs so greatly, that to write a mere list of names 
would enlighten no one. I shall only mention those 
books which I either possess or have had lent to me to 
read ; and if I describe them a little in detail, I think it 
may help the inexperienced to make a selection of those 
which they themselves would enjoy. At Florence there 
is a most excellent lending library ; in fact, prcbably more 
than one. 

As an example of ' art ' teaching at the end of the last 
century there is now a cheap edition of Sir Joshua 
Eeynolds's ' Discourses,' which are full of wisdom and 
general instruction. He shares with the greatest — Michael 
Angelo especially — the misfortune that those who came 
after him degenerated, which seemed at one time to 
justify the condemnation of his teaching. Here is a 
sentence from one of his ' Discourses ' which comes home 
to me as a reason why, instead of giving my own super- 
ficial opinions, I try to help others by recommending 
books which I think will greatly add to their enjoyment 
of a visit to Florence : 

'The great business of study is to form a mind 
adapted and adequate to all times and all occasions ; to 



MAY 309 

■which all Nature is then laid open, and which may be 
said to possess the key of her inexhaustible riches. 

' A detail of instruction might be extended with a great 
deal of pleasure and ostentatious amphfication ; but it 
would at best be useless. Our studies will be for ever in 
a very great degree under the direction of chance. Like 
travellers, we must take what we can get and when we 
can get it, whether it is or is not administered in the 
most commodious manner, in the most proper place, or 
at the exact minute when we would wish to have it. 

' The habit of contemplating and brooding over the 
ideas of great geniuses, till you find yourself warmed by 
the contact, is the true method of forming an artist-like 
mind. It is impossible to think or invent in a mean 
manner ; a state of mind is acquired that receives those 
ideas only which relish of grandeur and simplicity. 

' I. do not desire that you should get other people to do 
your business, or to think for you. I only wish you to 
consult with, to call in as councillors, men the most 
distinguished for their knowledge and experience, the 
result of which counsel must ultimately depend upon 
yourself. Such conduct in the commerce of life has 
never been considered as disgraceful or in any respect to 
imply intellectual imbecility ; it is a sign rather of that 
true wisdom which feels individual imperfection, and is 
conscious to itself how much collective observation is 
necessary to fill the immense extent and to comprehend 
the infinite variety of Nature. I recommend neither self- 
dependence nor plagiarism. I advise you only to take 
that assistance which every human being wants, and 
which it appears, from the examples that have been given, 
the greatest painters have not disdained to accept. 

' Let me add, the diligence required in the search, and 
the exertion subsequent in accommodating those ideas to 
your own purpose, is a business which idleness will not, 



3IO MORE POT-POURRI 

and ignorance cannot, perform. Men of superior talents 
alone are capable of thus using and adapting other men's 
minds to their own purposes, or are able to make out 
and finish what was only in the original a hint or 
imperfect conception. A readiness in taking such hints, 
which escape the dull and ignorant, makes in my opinion 
no inconsiderable part of that faculty of the mind which 
is called genius.' 

Before I begin my list of books I think I will say 
that there are few more useful things for young people to 
take with them to Italy than a biographical dictionary 
of the painters. I have two ; but they are old ones. I 
have had them aU my life. Doubtless there are better 
and more modern ones now, which I have not taken the 
trouble to look up. One is Pilkington's ' Dictionary of 
Painters ' by Allan Cunningham, and the other a 
' Dictionary of Italian Painters ' by Maria Parquhar, 
edited by E. M. Wornham. This is a dear Httle book 
published in 1855, and hght and portable, but probably 
long out of print. In studying art, nothing is more 
necessary than to know — not only the chronology of the 
jpiitures themselves, but also to a certain degree tha 
evolution of the minds of the men who painted them. 
This we can partly arrive at by the dates of their births 
and deaths. The galleries as a rule are not arranged to 
help one much, though many pictures now have dates on 
their frames. Still, it requires a peculiar head — certainly, 
I think, one not possessed by most women — to arrange 
these dates of the painters' lives, overlapping each other 
as they do, on the spur of the moment, in a way that is 
of the smallest use for judging the merits of the pictures, 
and above all the mind of the man that shines through 
Ms work. 

One should know the date of a picture, as in biography 
everything depends upon the age at which incidents occur. 



MAY 3Tr, 

Men of genius often do at twenty what is usually not done 
at forty ; so every now and then a painter anticipates by 
centuries the thought or the execution of future ages. 

In accordance with the taste of her day Maria 
Parquhar gives five double-columned pages of her little 
book to Eaphael, and half a single column to Botticelli. 
In this she did not differ from her contemporaries, for, 
as Mr. Hewlett says in ' Earthwork out of Tuscany ' : 
' Seriously, where in criticism do you learn of an earlier 
painter than Perugino until you come to our day ? And 
where now do you get the raptures over the Carracci and 
Domenichino, and Guercino and the rest of them, which 
the last century expended upon their unthrifty soil? 
Euskin found Botticelli ; yes, and Giotto. Eoscoe never so 
much as mentions either.' 

I have four little daintily printed volumes published in 
1834: — an early work of the well-known authoress Mrs. 
Jameson, who has written so much on Italian art. These 
books are not without interest to the student of life, art, or 
art criticisms. The two last volumes are a reprint of a still 
earlier work, which had a success in its day, called ' The 
Diary of an Ennuyde.' The book is still interesting tome, 
not only for its dimodde style, but also as being a kind of 
' Pot-Pourri ' of the day. This ' Diary of an Bnnuy6e ' 
contains an account of the author's stay at Florence, 
which is my reason for mentioning the book here. Her 
reflections are young and genuine, and the courage with 
which she lays them down gives them a human interest. 
I fuel considerable sympathy with what she says about 
Michael Angelo. She thus speaks of the Medici statues : 
'In a little chapel in San Lorenzo are Michael Angelo's 
famous statues — the Morning, the Noon, the Evening, 
and the Night. I looked at them with admiration rather 
than with pleasure ; for there is something in the severe 
and overpowering style of this master which affects me 



312 MORE POT-POURRI 

disagreeably, a3 beyond my feeling and above my com- 
prehension. These statues are very ill-disposed for effect ; 
the confined cell (such it seemed) in vsrhich they are 
placed is so strangely disproportioned to the awful and 
massive grandeur of their forms. 

' There is a picture by Michael Angelo, considered a 
chef-d'mzwre, which hangs in the Tribune to the right of 
the Venus. Now if all the connoisseurs, with Vasari at 
their head, were to harangue for an hour together on the 
merits of this picture, I might submit in silence, for I am 
no connoisseur ; but that it is a disagreeable, a hateful 
picture is an opinion which fire could not melt out of 
me. In spite of Messieurs les Connoisseurs and Michael 
Angelo's fame, I would die in it at the stake. For instance, 
here is the Blessed Virgin — not the " Vergine Santa d'ogni 
grazia plena," but a Virgin whose brickdust-coloured 
face, harsh unfeminine features, and muscular masculine 
arms give me the idea of a washerwoman (con rispetto 
parlando !) — an infant Saviour -with the proportions of a 
giant ! And what shall we say of the nudity of the figures 
in the background ? — profaning the subject and shocking 
at once good taste and good sense. A little further on 
the eye rests on the divine Madre di Dio of Correggio. 
What beauty, what sweetness, what maternal love and 
humble adoration are blended in the look and attitude 
with which she bends over her Infant ! ' 

Just as a contrast to this bald dislike of Michael 
Angelo, which I more or less share, I wiU copy, as an 
example of modern subtle scholarly criticism, a sentence 
on the same picture from Pater's ' Eenaissance ' — a book 
to be read indeed : 

' When the shipload of sacred earth from the soil of 
Jerusalem was mingled with the common clay in the 
Campo Santo at Pisa, a new flower grew up from it, unlike 
any flower men had seen beforie — the Anemone, vrith its 



MAY 313 

concentric rings of strangely blended colour, still to be 
found by those who search long enough for it in the long 
grass of the Maremma. Just such a strange flower was 
that mythology of the ItaUan Eenaissance which grew up 
from the mixture of two traditions, two sentiments — the 
sacred and the profane. Classical story was regarded as 
so much imaginative material to be received and assimi- 
lated. It did not come into men's minds to ask curiously 
of science concerning the origin of such story, its primary 
form and import, its nieanihg for those who projected it. 
The thing sank into their minds, to issue forth again with 
all the tangle about it of mediaeval sentiment and ideas. 

'In the Doni Madonna in the Tribune of the Uffizi 
Michael Angelo actually brings the pagan rehgion, and with 
it the unveiled human form, the sleepy-looking fauns of 
a Dionysiae revel, into the presence of the Madonna, as 
simpler painters had introduced there other products of 
the earth, birds or flowers; while he has given to that 
Madonna herself much of the uncouth energy of the older 
and more primitive " Mighty Mother." ' 

Is it possible to see side by side more different 
criticisms of the same picture ? And it is not only the 
difference of a young woman and a scholarly man ; it 
means the immense march the world has made altogether 
in the understanding of its own evolution. 

To return to Mrs. Jameson. She runs on with her 
criticisms through the sights of Morence. Most of the 
pictures she admires are certainly not those that excite 
the greatest admiration in these days. The name Botti- 
celli is never once mentioned by her, any more than it 
is thirty years later by George Eliot in her notes on 
Florentine art in the diary published in her Life. Pater, 
on the contrary, tells us that Sandro Botticelli is the only 
contemporary mentioned, whether by accident or intention, 
by Leonardo in his treatise on painting. 



314 MORE POT-POURRI 

I only possess the translation of this treatise published 
in 1835. Just lately a new ' Life and Works ' of Leonardo, 
by Eugene Muntz, has been pubUshed by Heinemann, 
but it is 42s. net. 

To leave high things for low, Mrs. Jameson touches 
on the society of the day at Florence and parties at the 
Countess of Albany's, etc. She gives an amusing story 
of a traveUing young lord who, when presented with the 
Countess of Albany's card, exclaimed : 

' The Countess of Albany ! Ah ! — true — I remember ! 
Wasn't she the widow of Charles the Second who married 
Ariosto?' There is in this celebrated bdvue a glorious 
confusion of times and persons. 

For those interested in the byways of history a well- 
known modem author, Vernon Lee, has written a ' Life ' of 
this Countess of Albany. I think it the most interesting 
of Vernon Lee's books that I have read. It was pubUshed 
in. the ' Eminent Women ' series — why, I cannot imagine ; 
for it seems to me as incongruous as Hawthorne's ' Life ' 
being in the ' English Men of Letters ' or Lady Hamilton's 
picture having a place in the National Portrait Gallery. 

Vernon Lee's ' Studies of the Eighteenth Century in 
Italy ' I have not read ; but if they are half as interesting 
as this ' Life,' I have something to look forward to. The 
pictures of even a portion of society in Florence drawn in 
this ' Life ' of the Countess of Albany set one wondering 
how a hundred years can have brought about such changes. 
Vernon Lee's later works, mostly about Italy, 'Limbo 
and Other Essays ' and ' Genius Loci,' there seems no 
need for me to praise ; they have been so recently in the 
reading pubUc's mind, and so much appreciated. 

It seems to me very clearing to the mind to read 
French or German criticisms at the same time as English, 
especially with regard to Italy, as at all times the French, 
of whom I know most, take such an absolutely different 



MAY 315 

point of view. 'L'ltalie d'Hier,' by the brothers De 
Gonoourt, written in the winter of 1855-56, is entirely 
devoid of what we should call ' the feeling for Italy.' To 
read this description of Italy is very hke taking up a book 
illustrating the contents of the first Exhibition of 1851, 
when all sense of the beautiful seemed absolutely lost. 
Georges Sand, in her youthful bitterness, exclaimed in 
the 'Thirties that Italy was 'Peintures aux plafonds, 
ordure sous les pieds ' ; but that criticism is again of a 
totally different kind. Edmond de Goncourt looks at a 
picture and says : ' La Vierge chez ce peintre, c'est la 
Vierge du Vinci, mais avec une expression courtisanesque.' 
The drawings by one of the brothers in this book are rather 
clever, and in describing a baU at the Pitti in the Grand 
Duke's time he gives an absurd caricature of our English 
Minister of the day, Lord Normanby, which no one who 
remembers him can read now without a smile. The book 
is well worth looking at as typical of French criticism 
of that day, and anybody who cares to enjoy a strong 
literary contrast has only to take up afterwards Paul 
Bourget's 'Sensations d'ltalie' (published in 1891, and 
dedicated to Eobert Lord Lytton by his affectionate friend 
and admirer) and his most daintily illustrated little gem 
called ' Un Saint,' published n 1894. Here the forty years 
have indeed altered sentiment, feeling, aspiration, and de- 
scription. Both are French ; I prefer the Bourget. 

The famous 'Voyage en Italie' by H. Taine (1866) 
is Uterature of a much more serious kind. It is descrip- 
tive rather than critical in the modern sense, and the 
chapter ' La Peinture Florentine ' should be read by 
anyone seriously interested in the Florence galleries. It 
contains an enlightened sentence on the famous Venus de' 
Medici, forcing one to remember — what so many forget — 
that the arms were a restoration by Bernini, and are very 
likely the cause of much that fails to please in this statue. 



3i6 MORE POT-POURRI 

What he says of the galleries are only slight sketches, 
but these are by the hand of a master. The end of the 
second volume is Venice ; the first volume is Eome. 

' The Makers of Florence,' by Mrs. Ohphant, is a most 
helpful book and one of her best. It should be read, 
I think, before the more detailed ' Life and Times of 
Savonarola ' by Professor Pasquale Villari, as the mind 
then will be in a more receptive condition for absorbing 
the greater detail of the larger book. It is almost incon- 
ceivable that Savonarola's skull formation should have 
been as low as it is represented in the portrait reproduced 
in this book of Mrs. Oliphant's, with the head covered 
with his Dominican cowl. 

' The Life and Times of Savonarola ' by Villari, 
translated as it is into English by his wife, has been 
lately republished in a cheap edition by Eisher Unwin. 

Signora Villari has also written a pretty little book of 
her own, called ' On Tuscan Hills and Venetian Waters.' 

I have long had that amusing classic, the ' Memoirs of 
Benvenuto Cellini ' by himself, translated by Thomas 
Eoscoo (1823), on the title-page of which is a saying of 
Horace Walpole's : ' Cellini was one of the most extra- 
ordinary men of an extraordinary age. His Life, written 
by himself, is more amusing than any novel I know.' 
This book was again translated into English by John 
Addington Symonds, and published in 1888. It is 
pleasanter reading than Eoscoe's, but the engraved 
portrait in the old book is infinitely better than in the new. 

I found Symonds's ' Life of Michael Angelo ' a book of 
rare interest. Symonds is often criticised for inaccuracy 
of detail. The same accusation is always brought against 
Eroude ; but both vreiters have a power of popularising 
information which, joined to their gift for vivid description, 
make one live in the past, in spito of the atmosphere of 
modern thought through which they present it. 



MAY 317 

Symonds's ' Italian Sketches,' which are so conveni- 
ently published in the Tauchnitz edition, speak of many 
things in a charming way, but do not actually touch on 
Morence itself. 

Amongst the books I have been reading none seem to 
me more remarkable or stamped with a stronger or 
more interesting individuality than Walter Pater's. His 
' Eenaissance,' which he calls ' Studies in Art and Poetry,' 
and ' Marius the Epicurean,' with its vivid word-painting 
and its pictures of old Italy, so unchanged even to-day, 
are books which must be immensely admired by those 
who read them, or not liked at all. They are certainly 
not light reading, and more fitted for the study than the 
railway carriage ; but they are books which I beUeve will 
live in English literature when many of the productions 
of this period will have passed into the unknown. They 
are full of study, thought, and knowledge, and it is not 
only a knack of beautiful writing which is their chief 
attraction and merit. 

Many years ago two old ladies, Susan and Joanna 
Horner, lived in Florence and wrote one of the first and 
the most satisfactory of the detailed guide-books I have 
ever seen, called ' "Walks in Elorence.' An interesting new 
French book by A. Geffroy, called 'Etudes Italiennes,' 
published in 1898, I thought worth reading, as it gives 
another historical view of the Eenaissance ; Art being 
only indirectly alluded to. The chapters are on ' Les 
Grands M6dicis,' ' Savonarola,' ' Guichardin.' He quotes 
of 'Laurent' 'Ce refrain rest6 populaire qui rSsonne 
encore comme un 6cho lointain et gr'acieux de la 
Renaissance ! 

Quanto S bella giovinezza 

Che si f ugge tuttavia ! 

Chi vuol esaer lieto, sia, 

Di doman non c' & certezza.' 



3iS MORE POT-POURRI 

The second part of the book is called ' Eome Monu- 
mentale.' In this there is a chapter on ' La 16gende de la 
Cenci,' in which he also sweeps away the whole story. 

Only last summer a book appeared called ' Tuscan 
Artists, their Thought and Work,' by Hope Eea. Sir 
W. B. Eichmond writes the preface and says : ' I desire 
success to this little volume, so interesting, so full of 
sympathy with those various emotions whose expression 
in all forms of art has made Italy their foster mother.' 

A book has just been sent me called ' Stray Studies 
from England and Italy,' by John Eichard Green, the 
author of the famous ' Short History.' The title is not 
quite correct, as there is an excellent chapter or two on 
the South of Prance, and an exceedingly interesting 
historical paper on the home of our Angevin kings, which 
was also the home of the Eenaissance in France ; and it 
has a still earlier interest for the modem English tourist 
who rides through Touraine by the Loire to Saumur, for, 
as Mr. Green says, ' Nothing clears one's ideas about the 
character of the Angevin rule, the rule of Henry II., or 
Eichard or John, so thoroughly as a stroll through Anjou.' 
Another charming chapter is ' The Morence of Dante.' In 
fact, I have most thoroughly enjoyed this little gem of 
desultory information. 

For serious modern criticism of Italian painters and 
their work I have found nothing that has interested me 
so much and which seems to me so new as Mr. Bemhard 
Berenson's three little volumes — ' The Venetian Painters 
of the Eenaissance,' ' The Florentine Painters of the 
Eenaissance,' and 'The Central Italian Painters of the 
Eenaissance.' The author evidently aims at representing 
the modern scientific school of art criticism, started, as far 
as I know, by Giovanni Morelli. The indexes at the end 
of each volume will be found valuable, though many of 
Mr. Berenson's conclusions will be cavilled at ; and his 



MAY 319 

attributions of pictures, differing as they do from the 
of&oial catalogues, raise much antagonism. 

Where doctors differ, the public may be amused, and 
art critics of the future must worry out their various 
opinions. 

' Italian Literature ' by Eichard Garnett is one of those 
books for which the pubhc ought to feel grateful, as it 
condenses an incredible amount of labour and study into 
a very small convenient volume. It brings us down to 
the present day, D'Annunzio's novels, etc. 

In 1897 Mr. John Morley pubhshed one of his 
brilliant lectures, delivered in the Sheldonian Theatre, on 
Machiavelh. He begins by a reference to Dante's liken- 
ing of worldly fame to the breath of the wind, that blows 
now one way, now another, and changes name as it changes 
quarter. He says of Machiavelli : ' In our age, when we 
think of the chequered course of human time, of the shocks 
of irreconcilable civilisations, of war, trade, faction, revolu- 
tion, empire, laws, creeds, sects, we seek a clue to the vast 
maze of historic and prehistoric fact. Machiavelli seeks no 
clue to his distribution of good and evil. He never tries 
to find a moral interpretation for the mysterious scroll. 
We obey laws that we do not know, but cannot resist. 
We can only make an effort to seize events as they 
whirl by, and to extort from them a maxim, a precept, or 
a principle, to serve our immediate turn. Fortune, he 
says — that is. Providence, or else circumstances, or the 
stars — is mistress of more than half we do. What is her 
deep secret, he shows no curiosity to fathom. He con- 
tents himself with a maxim for the practical man 
(" Prince," xxv.), that it is better to be adventurous than 
cautious, for Fortune is a woman and, to be mastered, 
must be boldly handled.' 

Mr. Morley's defence of Machiavelli is on the lines of 
his concluding words : ' It is true to say that Machia- 



320 MORE POT-POURRI 

velli represents certain living forces in our actual world ; 
that science, ■with its survival of the fittest, unconsciously 
lends him illegitimate aid ; that " he is not a vanishing 
type, but a constant and contemporary influence." This 
is because energy, force, will, violence, stiU keep alive in 
the world their resistance to the control of justice and 
conscience, humanity and right. In so far as he repre- 
sents one side in that eternal struggle, and suggests one 
set of considerations about it, he retains a place in the 
literature of modern poUtical systems and European 
morals.' 

I wind up by taking from my Hst of books that were 
recommended to me a few I have not yet had time to 
read : ' Christ's Folk in the Apennine,' by Miss Alexander ; 
' Eoadside Songs of Tuscany,' by the same. ' A Nook in 
the Apennines,' by Leader Scott. ' Italian Sketches,' by 
Mrs. Eoss. 'HistoiredesM6dicis,' by Dumas. 'UneAnnSe 
a Florence : Impressions de Voyage,' by Dumas. ' Italian 
Commonwealth, or Commonwealth of Florence,' by 
TroUope. 

Last year on May 26th I left my Surrey garden 
for three months. The account of this time I had 
abroad and the return in August will bring my year to 
its conclusion. 

My spring gardening was spoilt by the feeling that 
the buds I had watched so carefully would be seen in 
flower by others and not by myself ; and there is no deny- 
ing I left home with a considerable vwench. The garden 
looked very full, but green and flowerless ; only one or two 
large Oriental Poppies were out. I do not know why, but 
I travelled by night to Paris, resting some hours in an 
hotel in order to go through by the Cenis train, arriving 
at Florence early in the evening instead of in the middle 
of the night. I might just as well have slept in Paris ; 
it would have cost no more than the six hours' rest. I 



MAY 321 

started from there to travel alone for the first time in my 
life. 

I did not want to feel sad or lonely, which would have 
been foolish, as I was deliberately going to please myself ; 
and I could not help smiling as I thought over a sentence 
in the Journal of Marie Bashkirtseff, and what she says 
about travelling with one's family : ' Je comprend qu'on 
soit heureux de vivre en famille, et je serais malheureuse 
seule. On peut aller faire des achats en famille, aller au 
Bois en famille, quelquefois au Theatre. On peut 6tre 
malade en famille, faire des cures en famille, enfin tout ce 
qui est de la vie intime et des choses n6cessaires ; mais 
voyager en famille ! ! ! C'est comme si on prenait plaisir 
a valser avec sa tante. C'est ennuyeux mortellement, et 
meme quelque peu ridicule.' 

Eailway travelling is always such a joy to me. I 
never know which I like best — looking out of the window, 
or feeling that I can read in peace without the disturbances 
which are perpetually occurring elsewhere. Going through 
Erance, I am always struck afresh by the thinly populated 
look of the country, except just near the towns. 

I had in my travelling-bag a cutting from the ' Daily 
Telegraph ' of January 5th, 1898 : Mr. Gladstone's account 
of Hallam. A remarkably interesting paper, one of those 
rare gifts sometimes bestowed upon us by the daily press. 
It must have been almost the last, if not quite the last, 
thing of any importance the old man ever wrote. 

Has it ever been explained why the recollections of youth 
are so engraven on the brain and flash out in old age with 
such vivid clearness ? Educated and uneducated, clever 
and stupid, all seem to share the same experience. The 
dullest of old people are interesting if allowed to talk of 
their youth and themselves. The only drawback is that they 
enjoy repeating over and over again what they remember. 
Gladstone's half-jealous criticism of Hallam spending 



322 MORE POT-POURRI 

eight montlis in Italy between Eton and Cambridge in- 
cludes so excellent a description of travelling in the days 
that are gone that it haunted me as I flew and rushed in 
my express in one bound from Paris to Florence : 

' The agencies of locomotion have within the last 
seventy years been not only multiplied, but transformed. 
We then crept into and about countries ; we now fly 
through them. When Arthur Hallam went with his 
family to Italy, there was not so much as a guide-book. 
It was shortly afterwards Mrs. Starke, under the auspices 
of Murray, founded that branch of literature, and within 
the compass of one very moderate volume expounded in 
every particular the whole continent of Europe. But this 
is only the outside of the case. A visit to Italy was then 
the summit of a young man's aspirations ; it now supplies 
some half-dozen rapid stages in larger tours, where we 
run much risk of losing in discipline and mental stimulus 
what we gain in mileage. When it took sixteen or eighteen 
days to post to Eome, each change of horses was an 
event. The young traveller could not but try to make the 
most of what he had bought so dear. Scene, history, and 
language now flash before the eye ; then they soaked into 
the soul. Men were then steeped in the experiences of 
Italy ; they are now sprinkled with the spray. Its scenery, 
its art, its language, which was a deUght and luxury to 
learn ; its splendid Uterature ; its roU of great men, 
among whom Dante himself might serve to build up the 
entire fame of a nation ; and its place in history, which 
alone connects together the great stages of human civilisa- 
tion — all these .constituted a many-sided power which 
was brought to bear almost in a moment on the mind 
of Arthur Hallam. I knew it, for I suffered by it. The 
interval between his progress and my own, always long, 
became such that there was no joining hands across it. I 
was plodding on the beaten and dusty path, while he was 



MAY 323 

Where the lost lark wildly sings, 
Hard by the sun.' 

Everyone takes with him to Florence Mr. Hare's 
•Cities of Central Italy.' In his introduction to the 
' Cities of Northern Italy ' he puts it well as regards the 
changes that have in my life-time come over travelling. 
I can remember things as he describes them : 

' The old days of Itahan travel are beginning to pass 
out of recollection — the happy old days, when with slow- 
trotting horses and jangling bells we lived for weeks in 
our vetturino carriage as in a house, and made ourselves 
thoroughly comfortable there ; halting at midday for 
luncheon, with pleasant hours for wandering over unknown 
towns and gathering flowers and making discoveries in 
the churches and convents near our resting-place. All 
that we then saw remains impressed on our recollection 
as a series of beautiful pictures set in a framework of 
the home-like associations of a quiet life, which was 
gilded by all that Italian loveliness alone can bestow 
of its own tender beauty. The slow approach to each 
long-heard-of but unseen city — gradually leading up, 
as the surroundings of all cities do, to its own peculiar 
characteristics — gave a very different feeling towards 
it from that which is produced by rushing into a railway 
station.' 

This is all perfectly true; but when we think that 
hundreds can now see and enjoy the great cities of Italy, 
which in old days was only the privilege of the idle, the 
rich, and the few, we can vrithout regret give up the more 
romantic methods of travelling of bygone days. 

The only book I had vnth me, given me before I left 
for Florence, was called ' Earthwork out of Tuscany,' 
being ' impressions and translations ' of Maurice Hewlett 
(J. M. Dent & Co., 1895). It describes Florence, not as 
I saw it, but in autumn and early winter, the usual 

t2 



324 MORE POT-POURRI 

tourist time. It is very modem in tone, and although 
slightly affected, yet the enthusiasm and deUght in Italy 
are as great as, or even greater than, those of writers of 
a past generation. His preface, which he calls ' Proem,' 
is an apologia for writing at all on such well-known 
ground, for he feels his book must risk the charge of 
being ' a richauffi of Paul Bourget and Walter Pater 
with ana lightly cuUed from Symonds, and perchance 
the questionable support of ponderous references out of 
Burckhardt.' My journey was shortened for me by the 
pleasure I got from reading this book, and it made me 
feel glad as I sat in the train that I was on my way to 
this Italy of undying interest. 

I had, of course, the usual luggage scare at the Custom 
House at Modane in the middle of the night. I was idiotic 
from sleep, and the officials declared my boxes were not 
in the train. I felt like the French cabman with a 
heavy load when a passing friend asked him how he was. 
' Pour moi, je suis plongS dans la misfere jusqu'au cou.' 
Just as the train was starting, to my intense rehef I spied 
my boxes, and could once more complacently smile and 
remember a nice little story I had just been told. An 
American lady, having lost all her luggage, said : ' Any 
great trial sent by the Almighty I can bear, but these 
collateral smacks are too much for anyone to endure.' 
How true it is ! 

One of the drawbacks of the facility of modern travel 
is that it enables people who have a short hohday — say, of 
three weeks — to rush through Italy from place to place. 
Disappointed with the climate, they imagine sunshine is 
to be found farther on. I heard a young man who spent 
his three weeks at Eome, Florence, and Venice, say that 
he had ' done that tour, and that Florence was the vilest 
climate on the face of God's earth.' Whereas a great 
deal more pleasure is to be had, and one gains a much 



MAY 325 

more lasting impression, by going straight from home 
and spending the whole time in one place. 

Everyone warned me so much against the heat I 
should find in Italy in June. But I began my disappoint- 
ment by finding the Alps all cloud and rain, and, in spite 
of its being the last days of May, the weather was quite 
cold. At Turin the sky was as inky black as in London. 
The torrents were bursting, and the roads floating with 
water over black mud. As we got near Genoa, of which 
absolutely nothing can be seen from the railway, it was 
like a gray July day at home, the hay cut and the Acacias 
in flower. 

The journey along the seashore is a most irritating 
series of tunnels. When I arrived at Florence, all 
loneUness was at an end. Kind friends met me, and we 
drove through the town, which I had not visited, except 
for one night, since I was twenty. In the gray damp 
drizzle it did not look its best, but no weather can spoil 
the majestic appearance of the Ilex and Cypress avenue 
outside the Eoman gate — the approach to what was once 
a Medicean villa. Through this we had to drive to reach 
the village of Arcetri, where my journey ended. 

The joy of being once more in Italy was indeed great ; 
my pension — close to the Torre del Gallo — was a large, 
fine house, quite empty. All the upper floor was my 
own, and I could roam from room to room and enjoy the 
most beautiful views conceivable. The whole country 
is like a gigantic rockwork — hill and vale and sloping 
sides and varied aspects, and all that can be imagined 
as perfect for the growth of vegetation. I was rather 
disappointed at the excessive greenness of everything on 
my arrival. Even the Olives, in spite of the green corn 
underneath them, looked green — not gray — from the 
masses of small yellow flowers that covered them. One 
cannot look at all this redundant vegetation without 



326 MORE POT-POURRI 

realising that Florence must be blessed with an abundant 
rainfall. 

They talk here of the probability of a wet ' San Gio- 
vanni ' as we taUc of ' St. Swithin ' — meaning, of course, 
there is generally much wet about that time. 

The Italian papers were naturally fuU of Mr. 
Gladstone's recent death, and one of them published his 
translation of Cowper's hymn, ' Hark, my soul,' which 
seems already at the end of a year almost a Uterary 
curiosity : 

Senti, senti, anima mia 

(Fu il Signer che sentia) 

Gesil parla e parla a te : 

' Di, figliuolo, ami Me ? ' 

' Te legato svincolai, 
Le tue piagbe lisanai, 
Fuorviato rimenai, 
Notte e di per te mutai.' 

' Vien la madre a quando a quando 
n suo parto obliaudo ? 
Donna il pud, non posso lo, 
Mai non viene in Me 1' obblio.' 

' L' amor Mio sempre dura, 
Alto pii d' ogni altra altura, 
Tocoa gii le nere ports, 
Franco e fido, in fine a morte. 

' Tu la gloria Mia vedrai, 
Se le piene grazie avrai, 
Te del trono meno al pi6 ; 
Di, iigliuolo, ami Me ? ' 

' Ah, Signor, mi duole il core 
Pel mio stanco e fiacoo amore, 
T' amo pure, e vo' pregare 
Che ti possa meglio amare. 

My food in my out-of-town pension, as I had it all 
to myself, consisted of vegetables, macaroni, rice, Alpine 



MAY 327 

strawberries, etc. I learnt tlie secret of the delicious 
little vegetable they call ' Zucohe,' which I had often heard 
of. It is called in the English Vilmorin vegetable book 
Italian Vegetable Marrow, ' an extremely distinct variety, 
stems not running very thick, and short. The luxuriant 
foliage forms a regular bush. All through Italy, where 
this gourd is very commonly grown, the fruit is eaten 
quite young, just before the faded flower drops off. The 
plants deprived of their undeveloped fruits continue to 
flower for several months most profusely, each producing 
a great number of young gourds, which, gathered in that 
state, are exceedingly tender and delicately flavoured.' 
' This should be tried in England,' adds Mr. Eobinson. 
The same excellent way of gathering them quite young 
might, I think, be adopted for other gourds and Vegetable 
Marrows. 



328 MORE POT-POURRI 



JUNE 

What I saw from my window at Arcetri — Fireflies — Cypresses — 
Youthful memories in the ' Cascine ' — Deodar in cloister of San 
Marco — FSte at Santa Margharita — Villas — Gardens — Want of 
coloiir in Tuscany at midsummer — Slight allusion to picture 
galleries — The cabinet of Cardinal Leopoldo de' Medici — Jane 
24th in Florence — Botanical Garden — Silence of birds and 
summer sounds. 

June 1st. — I alluded in May to a book called 'Earth- 
work out of Tuscany.' The introductory chapter contains 
the following passage, which comes home to me most 
strongly as I begin to write a few notes about my visit 
to Florence : ' Has any city, save perhaps Cairo, been 
so written out as Florence? .... Florence has often 
been sketched before — putting Browning aside, with his 
astounding fresco music — by Euskin and George Eliot 
and Mr. Henry James, to name only masters. But that 
is no reason why I should not try my prentice hand. 
Florence alters not at all ; men do. My picture, poor 
as you like, shall be my own.' I, too, can only in great 
humility beg you to accept this little account of my June 
near Florence, ' not as what I would fain offer, but what 
I am able to present.' 

June 2nd. — The weather is getting finer and warmer, 
and I am more and more delighted with my large, empty 
house and with the views all round. A more perfect 
spot could not be found even here. The actual town I 
cannot see ; it is hidden by the undulating ground that 
rises behind San Miniato, ending in the Torre del Gallo, 



JUNE 32? 

lose to the villa where Galileo was exiled, when blind 
and old, to die. Tradition says that he worked from the 
top of this tower. I wonder whether he did, or whether 
Milton was right in saying that he studied the moon 
from the top of Piesole. Milton only saw Galileo on his 
second visit to Florence, as during his first visit the 
astronomer was kept a close prisoner by the Inquisition. 

What was really at the bottom of Galileo's persecu- 
tion ? Religious people thought it militated against the 
dignity and importance of man that this planet of his 
should go spinning round the sun — with men's hopes 
and feelings hanging on by their eyelids instead of 
remaining quiet in a dignified manner while the sun did 
its duty in going round, warming and lighting, the earth. 

Galileo's blindness seems to have had a 'prophetic 
fascination ' for Milton, and the deep impression left by 
the sight of the Tuscan astronomer is shown by the way 
in which Milton once or twice alludes to him in ' Paradise 
Lost,' not published till nearly thirty years later. 

Mr. Stephen Phillips's fine poem to Milton blind might 
almost apply to Galileo : 

The hand was taken by Angels who patrol 
The evening, or are sentries to the dawn, 
Or pace the wide air everlastingly. 
Thou wast admitted to the presence, and deep 
Argument heardest and the large design 
That brings this world out of woe to bliss. 

Ouida says of GaUleo's tower in 'Pascarel,' perhaps 
the most imaginative and delightful of her Italian books 
(so true to Nature and so false to human nature !) : ' The 
world has spoilt most of its places of pilgrimage, but the old 
star-tower is not harmed as yet where it stands amongst 
its quiet garden ways and grass-grown slopes, up high 
amongst the hills, with sounds of dripping water on its court, 
and wild wood flowers thrusting their bright heads through 



330 MORE POT-POURRI 

its stones. Itis as peaceful, as simple, as homely, as closely 
girt with blossoming boughs and with tulip-crimsoned 
grapes now as then, when from its roof in the still mid- 
night of far-off time its master read the secret of the stars.' 

But to Galileo at seventy and blind, I wonder what 
was the use of the old lighting tower ? The sight of it 
was a ceaseless joy to me, flanked by splendid Cypresses 
standing ochre colour against the blue, or dark against 
some ' billowy bosomed cloud ' ; and at evening it was 
' one red tower that drinks its fill out of the sunset sky.' 

This was as I looked to the east. Moving round to 
the south, the view widened and spread right up the valley 
of the Arno, where the little puff of gray smoke curled 
along the base of the hill and showed where the train 
sped on its way to Eome, through the mountains as they 
folded one over the other in tints of pearly-gray. Still 
more south came the hill where Vallombrosa stands, and 
then a long stretch of villa-dotted low hills. At the end 
of the ridge was a little grove of pointed Cypresses, and 
the well-known favourite peasant church of all the 
country round stood out on its own little hill in the 
middle distance. Towards the west came a hillock 
crowned with a flat white villa cut by the Cypresses that 
surround nearly all the houses, sinking and swelling with 
Olive and Vine towards the distant view of the Certosa 
of the Val d'Arno. And so round to the whole beautiful 
broad valley running towards Pisa, ending in the blue 
shadows of the Carrara Mountains, with the top of Bello- 
sguardo in the middle distance sharp and black against 
the gray mist of the plain. Evening after evening I used 
to try and get home to see the sunsets from my windows, 
as nowhere else were they so beautiful, and nowhere else 
did the air blow so fresh and yet so warm as in my home 
pf the winds, the ' Pension d'Arcetri.' 

The only sadness that I know of in these Southern 



JUNE 331 

summers is that the twilights are so short. I missed 
much the long, pale primrose evening skies of June, which 
at home throw up their faint Northern brightness right 
into the indigo of the star skies of night and almost meet 
Aurora at her waking. 

But the dark evenings are wanted to show the beauty 
of those wonderful fairy-like things that flit about in 
millions under the Olive-trees and in the corn. I had 
never seen the fireflies since the summer I passed under 
Fiesole when I was a little child of ten, but I had not 
forgotten them. The poetry that hangs around them is 
endless ; their natural history is prosaic. They are 
beetles. Both sexes are luminous, though that is not the 
general belief in Italy. They are nearly related to our 
glowworm. The colour of the fireflies is warmer and 
more golden than the blue light of the glowworm, and 
their beauty is enhanced and made more mysterious 
because the light comes and goes, and shows much more 
brightly at intervals. These fireflies are usually only to 
be met with in quite the South of Europe, but in fine 
hot summers they can be seen in rarer numbers as 
far north as Switzerland and even the middle of 
Germany. The Italians call them lucciole, and associate 
them with all sorts of pretty poetical stories. Ouida says : 
' One cannot wonder that the poets love them, and that 
the children believe them to be fairies carrying their little 
lanterns on their road to dance in the magic circle under 
the leaves in the wood. Some say they die in a day ; 
some say they live on for ages. Who shall tell ? They 
look always the same.' 

On one side of my house was a much-neglected but 
lovely little square, walled garden with beautiful tall iron 
gates. The beds and paths, edged with stone, were of a 
simple formal pattern, which gave great dignity to the. 
weedy little wilderness ; and there were the usual large 



332 MORE POT-POURRI 

terracotta pots with strong, well-grown Lemon-trees in 
them, the pride of the Tuscan peasant's heart. The 
flowers on them scented the air ; the peasants sell the pale 
fruit at a special price all the summer through in the town 
as we sell glass-grown Peaches. I think that if we tried to 
grow plants of this sort of Lemon at home in pots or tubs, 
it would be far better than trying to grow the more delicate 
Oranges usually seen on terraces in England. I was 
told I should find it too hot, but I never did once. Indeed, 
at first I was disappointed ; it was not warm enough. But 
in England they had snow early in June. The Irises, the 
Tulips, all the wild spring flowers were over. I found 
the fields in places filled with a curious orchidaceous- 
looking plant which, terrible weed as it was, I thought 
would look beautiful as a spring pot-plant. It turned 
out to be a cruel parasitical growth, called Orobanche 
pruinosa, which grows on the roots of the Broad Beans, 
destroying whole crops — to the ruin of bad farmers. 
It also grows on the roots of Geraniums, I am told ; 
which will be convenient in making it a pot-plant at 
home. 

My villa pension was surrounded vsdth fine Cypresses 
of all sizes and ages. I wonder when and how they 
came to be planted round the houses? Some say the 
peasants from all time have planted one as a kind of 
dower when a daughter was born in the house. In 
justification of this Mr. Loudon says that Pliny tells 
several extraordinary stories about the durability of the 
wood, and that the plantations of Cypresses were cut 
down every thirteen years for poles, rafters, joists, etc., 
which made the wood so profitable that a plantation of 
Cypresses was thought a suf&cient marriage portion for a 
daughter. Theophrastus states that it grew naturally in 
the isle of Crete, and that those who wish to have the 
Cypress flourish must rocure a little of the earth from- 



JUNE 333 

the isle of Cyprus for it to grow in. The early botanists 
supposed that the upright and spreading Cypresses were 
male and female of the same plant — C. horisontalis the 
male, G. stricta the female. This is not the case. The 
horizontal Cypress is quite a distinct species, which comes 
from the Levant. The evergreen Cypress is a flame-shaped, 
tapering, and cone-like tree. The male catkins are yellow- 
ish, about three inches long, and very numerous. The 
female catkins are much fewer and of a roundish-oblong 
form ; but both grow on the same tree. I have a sentiment 
for Cypresses that amounts to a passion. All my life they 
have remained in my mind as emblems of the fairest land 
I have ever known. 

June 5th. — To-day being warm, I went down to 
Florence ; and dropping my companion — who had to call 
on a sick friend — I went on alone to the ' Cascine,' the well- 
known public park, which I had not seen for over forty 
years. The ghost of my youth sat beside me in the little 
shabby carriage ; and as I drove along the well-remembered 
alley, with the racecourse on the right, and the shaded 
roads where I used to ride, the past all came back to my 
mind. To the outward eye all seemed very much the same 
— a little smartened up and modernised perhaps. As I drew 
up on the Piazzone there was another carriage with a mother 
and three young daughters, as we used to be. It was a 
strange, lonely, sepulchral sort of feeling — that in all that 
gay crowd very few were even born when we lived in 
Florence and I used to go daily to the ' Cascine ' and dance 
half the night through at balls. That winter at Florence 
seemed to me at the time to be the last of my youth, and 
it altered all my life. 

How strange are the depressions of youth ! Life seems 
over when really it has scarce begun ! It was in such a 
mood I left Florence at twenty. De Musset has ex- 
pressed this sadness of youth with concentrated pathos : 



334 MORE POT-POURRI 

J'ai perdu ma force et ma vie 

Et mes amis et ma gaiety ; 

J'ai perdu jusqu'Et, la fiert6 

Qui faisait croire k mon gSnie. 

Quand j'ai connu la v6rit6 

J'ai cru que o'itait une amie ; 

Quand je I'ai comprise et seutie 
J'en 6tais d6j4 d^goAtfe. 

Et pourtant ello est feternelle, 
Et ceux qui se sont pass6 d'elle 
Ici bas ont tout ignore. 

Dieu parle, il faut qu'on lui r^ponde, 
Le seul bien qui me reste au monde 
Est d'avoir quelquefois pleurfi. 

As I drove back into Florence the air was heavy with 
the perfume of the Lime-trees — such Lime-trees as I 
have never seen before. The leaves are few and small, 
and were absolutely hid by the size and number of the 
yellow flowers with their big sheaths on each side like 
wings. The evening sky was reflected in the Amo in the 
old familiar way, and the air was warm and still. I called 
for my friend, and once more shut up the memory of the 
past in that far-away corner of the brain where such 
things remain. We drove through the town, and I first 
saw the Duomo with its faQade completed. In my day, of 
course, it was rough bricks, with the holes for the scaffold- 
ing left in it. Beautifully as it is done, and I do think it 
is a noble piece of restoration, the new f agade at fijst gave 
me a shock. It seemed to cheapen:Giotto's lovely tower, 
and made one feel that what had seemed inimitable could 
be copied. 

My first fortnight at Florence was spent in driving 
about seeing old gardens, and dropping into dim churches 
on summer evenings before returning home. My critical 
feelings were all absolutely dead. I could do nothing but 



JUNE 335 

gasp and admire, and with it always the dim memory of 
somehow having seen it all before as in a dream. The 
churches in the fading evening light looked very solemn 
and very beautiful — portals to death perhaps rather than 
windows into heaven. But I do not know that I liked them 
less for that. I found Florence very little changed in its 
general aspect, in spite of the many alterations which,have 
been such pain and grief to the English inhabitants. It 
is almost, if not quite, unspoilable. There are trams and 
omnibuses and incongruous things, no doubt ; but, oh ! it 
is wonderfully unchanged — -from the time-worn stones of 
its pavements to the black eaves of its roofs against the 
brilliant sky. 

One need not be in Florence to give one's entire 
sympathy to the good people there who are trying their 
utmost to save the beautiful old city from destruction. 
To destroy old streets to build hotels may defeat its own 
object, for if Morenee becomes less beautiful the demand 
for hotel rooms may diminish ; though honestly I think 
that, to keep up the influx of strangers, sanitary precautions 
and a certain content among the people are more necessary 
still. Five thousand English and other tourists left 
Florence the week before I arrived, in consequence of a 
very sKght riot which followed on the two days' SociaUst 
outbreak at Milan. The departure of strangers means 
ruin to the hotel-keepers and poverty to all those they 
employ ; so my sympathy to a certain extent goes with 
the difficulties of the Italian Government, who have to 
consider the material benefit to the city and its people 
that may come from wider streets and bridges. When 
I see protests such as have appeared lately in the columns 
of our newspapers a feeling of shame always comes over 
me at the wholesale destruction that has gone on within 
my memory in our own poor old London, and which few 
people think about. For instance, the destruction of 



336 MORE POT-POURRI 

Temple Bar because it was thought too expensive to make 
a road each side of it. Also the clearing away of sixteen 
or eighteen of Wren's beautiful churches. I would far 
rather see them used in some way for the people's good 
than destroyed. I cannot see why they should not be put 
to some useful service, as the monasteries and convents 
have been in France and Italy. If this is sacrilege, surely 
it is much more so wantonly to destroy ! At least, we 
might still have the beautiful spires of the kind which Mr. 
Watson describes : 

It soars like hearts of hapless men who dare 
To sue for gifts the gods ref ose to allot ; 

Who climb for ever toward they know not where, 
Baffled for ever by they know not what. 

Not to speak of the hideous spoiling of the Thames 
by the railway and other bridges, narrow streets and 
old houses are constantly pulled down. Only the other 
day the picturesque almshouses of Westminster ceased to 
exist. Last, but not least, Wren's work is being disfigured, 
as most people feel, by the modem decorations in St. 
Paul's. I often wish a deputation of influential Italians, 
with a petition signed by hundreds of non-influential 
names, would come here and protest against this destruc- 
tion of old buildings and our many other municipal 
short-comings. May the Italians respect their lovely 
buildings ! — and I believe they vyiU — better than we do. 
They certainly restore — with apparently only the wish to 
copy and maintain — a great deal better than any other 
European nation I know. I cannot make up my mind 
that in this they are wrong, in spite of the constant 
protests of the Anti-Eestoration Society, with whose work 
I have been in much sympathy all my Ufe. It seems 
hard to say that the beautiful buildings of the Middle 
Ages ought to be allowed to fall into ruins, and the effort 
to preserve what we admire will, I think earn the gratitude 



JUNE 337 

of the ages to come. In the eighteenth century, ruins as 
such were admired even to the extent of making artificial 
ones, and the landscape painters not only steeped all 
Nature's bright colours in black and brown, but painted 
the ruined columns under thunderclouds, with Eoman 
soldiers in togas walking about. And our grandfathers 
bought and admired their pictures ! 

June 6th. — When I was young in Florence a great 
mystery hung over the convent of San Marco, as women 
were not allowed to visit it, and we young ones thought 
of it principally in connection with its perfumery shop, 
where the Iris-root powder and pale pink lip-salve were 
better than anywhere else. It was with a real feeling of 
curiosity that I saw the interior and the famous frescoes 
that have survived so many centuries. I found them 
very sweet and child-like — these decorations of the little 
cells by the humble Christian monk ; but I suppose I had 
expected too much, for as works of art they disappointed 
me. In the little square surrounded by the cloister of 
San Marco, where Fra Girolamo sat sotto un rosajo di 
rose Damasohine preaching to his contemporaries, the 
monks — or rather, I suppose, some unimaginative official 
who has charge of the public buildings in Florence, has 
planted, instead of the gentle damask Eose and the 
Lavender and Eosemary, a huge flourishing Deodar. No 
doubt this tree is beautiful enough on the high steep sides of 
the Lower Himalayas, but with its symmetrical grovrth, 
and the size to which it has already attained, it is a most 
unsightly and inappropriate object in the restricted 
cortile of Savonarola's monastery. It puts everything out 
of all proportion, and is such an anachronism I Deodars 
are quite modern trees in Europe, and are not pretty 
even in villa gardens. I do wish . it could be cut down ; 
plain, daisy-spangled turf would be much better. Nothing 
is so striking or so general as the want of imagination in 

z 



338 MORE POT-POURRI 

planting. Sometimes plants are put in entirely out of 
character with the rest of a garden ; another time trees 
are planted which, when they grow well, entirely obscure 
the view or shut out the summer sunset. One curious 
anachronism I have noticed is that an artist in painting a 
scene for the backgroimd of a Greek or Eoman play intro- 
duces American plants in his foreground I So many places 
are merely spoilt in an effort to improve them, and this is 
especially the case all round Florence. 

Of all that I have read about Florence since my 
return I think nothing is more attractively clever or 
more full of character, both of the place and the writer, 
than a chapter caUed ' A Florentine Mosaic ' in ' Tuscan 
Cities,' a little volume by W. D. Howells, the American. 
It is published in the ' English Library ' series at Leipzig. 
HaLE the book is about Florence. It is a perfectly 
charming mixture of humour and history, bewildered 
tourist and most cultivated man of letters. It takes one 
so instantly into the very heart and core of the Middle 
Ages that one purrs with a deHghtful feeling of 'Oh, 
certainly ! Yes, I always did know all about it.' Popes 
and Parties, Blacks and Whites, the ins and the outs, etc. 
Art, which generally forms such a large portion of a book 
about Florence, is left out altogether, or at any rate is 
only like a brilliant tapestry background to his living, 
moving figures. It is so clear and so comprehensive that 
it satisfies the idle and whets the appetite of those who 
wish to know more. Mr. Howells has a masterly way 
of sketching, and his appreciation of the cloisters is so 
real that, to my mind, he makes one feel it would be 
worth while to go all the way to Florence to see them 
and nothing else. Cloisters are, perhaps, the most 
characteristic things in Italy. He thus vreites : 

'The thing that was novel to me, who found the 
churches of 1883 in Florence so like the churches of 1863 



JUNE 339 

in Venice, was the loveliness of the deserted cloisters 
belonging to so many of the former. These enclose nearly 
always a grass-grown space, where daisies and dandelions 
began to abound with the earliest consent of spring- 
Most public places and edifices in Italy have been so 
much photographed that few have any surprise left in 
them ; one is sure that one has seen them before. But 
the cloisters are not yet the prey of this sort of pre- 
acquaintance. "Whether the vaults and walls of the 
colonnades are beautifully frescoed, like those of Santa 
Maria Novella or Santa Annunziata or San Marco, or 
the place has no attraction but its grass and sculptured 
stone, it is charming ; and these cloisters linger in my 
mind as something not less Florentine in character than 
the Ponte Vecchio or the Palazzo Publico. I remember 
particularly an evening effect in the cloister of Santa 
Annunziata, when the belfry in the corner, lifted aloft in 
its tower, showed with its pendulous bells like a great 
graceful flower against the dome of the church behind it. 
The quiet in the place was almost sensible ; the pale light, 
suffused with rose, had a delicate clearness ; there was a 
little agreeable thrill of cold in the air ; there could not 
have been a more refined moment's pleasure offered to a 
sympathetic tourist loitering homeward to his hotel.' 

As I write I feel ' Of course everyone knows this book,' 
but it is often not so, and no one told me of it till long 
after I got back. I experienced one of those ' refined 
moments of pleasure ' when one beautiful June afternoon — 
warm, but not one bit too hot — we drove to the Certosa, 
and, sending the carriage round, walked up its steep Olive 
slopes to the monastery. A few of the white-robed 
monks still remain in possession. I did not make out if 
they are renewed or not, but their presence preserves the 
character of the place. I had never seen it before ; for of 
course years ago, like San Marco, it was net shown to 

z2 



340 MORE POT-POURRI 

women. The garden was peaceful to a degree, shimmer- 
ing in the golden-veiled summer sunshine. Never did I 
see such lovely Lavender; it was as different from our 
Northern plant as could be. The flowering part was just 
double as long, and one mass of gray-blue flowers, which 
gave a general effect in the garden as of blue haze. One 
side of the cloister had been thrown dovm by the earth- 
quake of three years ago. They were beginning to repair 
it — with the usual Italian patient fidelity in restoration. 

No one who goes to the Certosa should fail to take 
special notice of the remarkable pietra tombale — so 
different from our dull interpretation of the ' tombstone ' 
— of Cardinal Lionardo Buonafede. I am told it is often 
missed. This recumbent statue is as fresh and well 
preserved as the day it was made, which is very rare with 
any of these peculiar effigies. The figure of the old 
Cardinal lies on the tessellated marble floor. His head is 
propped by costly pillows, and he wears his jewelled 
mitre. His stockinged feet and simply crossed hands, 
vrith the long straight draperies of his robe, are a most 
perfect example of the realistic sculpture of the Middle 
Ages — as true as waxwork, with none of its vulgarity — so 
different from the degeneracy of modern Italian art. I 
wish I knew why it has been a Christian custom to clothe 
the feet of the dead ; they are especially beautiful. If all 
else is changed, they remain the same. 

June 9th. — This being the Festival of Corpus Christi, 
we went in the afternoon to the little chm-ch close by of 
Santa Margharita. Ouida describes, much better than I 
can do, 'the little, brown, square church vyith its beU 
clanging in the open tower high above in the sweet air 
on the hills ; there is level grass all about it ; and it has a 
cool, green garden, shut within walls on every side except 
where a long parapet of red dusky tiles leaves open the 
view of the Valdarno ; underneath the parapet there are 



JUNE 341 

other terraces of deep grass and old, old Olive-trees, in 
whose shade the orchids love to grow and the blue Iris 
springs up in great sheaves of sword-like leaves. 

' There are trees of every sort in the cloistered garden, 
the turf is rich and long, the flowers are tended with the 
greatest care, the little sacristy glows red in the sun, an 
Acanthus climbs against it ; the sacristan's wife comes out 
to you plaiting her straw, and brings you a cluster of her 
Eoses ; you sit on the stone seat, and lean over the parapet 
and look downward ; birds flit about you ; contadini go 
along the grass paths underneath and nod to. you, smiling ; 
a delicious mingled loveliness of Olive wood and Ilex 
foliage and blossoming vineyards shelve beneath you ; you 
see all Morenee gleaming far below there in the sun, and 
your eyes sweep from the snow that still lies on Vallom- 
brosa to the blue shadows of the Carrara range. 

' It is calm and golden and happy here at Santa Mar- 
gharita's, high in the fragrant hill air, with the Guelder 
Eoses nodding above head, and the voices of the vine- 
dressers echoing from the leaf-veiled depths below.' 

That is an exact description of the spot ; we went there 
often, and we, too, hung over the parapet and thought of 
the tempo passato. I could see the little church tower 
always from my bedroom window. 

On this beautiful June afternoon we saw the most 
picturesque and characteristic procession — the Host 
carried from the church to the chapel of a villa about 
half a mile off. The houses round, year by year, take it 
in turns to be so honoured. The priests in general were 
very ugly and common-looking, but the young man who 
on this occasion carried the Host was superb, like the 
Giorgione in the Pitti. The lighted candles in the outdoor 
evening light, the white-robed priests, the long procession 
of peasants, were most striking. Arriving at the villa, 
they passed to the chapel under a loggia, the tessellated 



342 MORE POT-POURRI 

pavement of which was drawn out in a beautiful coloured 
pattern made of the petals of flowers — Poppies, Eoses, 
Larkspurs, the brilliant yellow Broom — and all between 
the pattern fiUed in with little leaves of bright green Box. 
The effect was to me quite new and very decorative. The 
procession passed on each side, and the priest alone, 
carrying the Host, was esteemed worthy to walk straight 
down the middle of this Nature-coloured carpet. Nothing 
could have been more rurally peaceful and lovely than the 
whole scene. In the earlier days of the century we were 
taught to believe the troubles of Italy, like the troubles of 
Ireland, were owing to Catholicism. Now the theory 
is that the Latin races are dying out ; but if this is true, 
is it certain they are dying of Catholicism ? Is it not 
quite wonderfully clear the Italians have never lost their 
Paganism ? I confess, as I watched the whole scene, I 
could only think of Pater's opening to ' Marius the Epi- 
curean,' in which he describes how the purer forms of 
Paganism had lingered in the vUlages after the triumph of 
Christianity — ' a religion of usages rather than the facts 
of belief, and attached to very definite things and places.' 
Then comes the description of the ' little ' or private 
Ambarvaha in the home of the youth Marius, and it 
almost exactly describes what I saw this June day quite 
at the end of the nineteenth century. ' At the appointed 
time all work ceases ; the instruments of labour lie 
untouched, hung with wreaths of flowers ; while masters 
and servants together go in solemn procession along the 
dry paths of vineyard and cornfield. . . . The old Latin 
words of the Liturgy, to be said as the procession moved 
on its way, though their precise meaning was long since 
become unintelligible. 

' Early on that day the girls of the farm had been busy 
in the great portico, fiUing large baskets vrith flowers cut 
short from branches of Apple and Cherry, then in spacious 



JUNE 343 

bloom, to strew before the, quaint images of the gods — 
Ceres and Bacchus, and the yet more mysterious Dea Dia 
— as they passed through the fields, carried in their little 
houses on the shoulders of white-clad youths,, who were 
understood to proceed to this office in perfect temperance, 
as pure in soul and body as the air they breathed in the 
firm weather of that early summer-time. The clean lastral 
water and the full incense-box were carried after them.' 
, So far the description is exact. The butchery which 
disgusted Marius, Christianity has swept away ; but every- 
thing else remains, almost entirely the same. 

All trace of costume amongst the peasants has 
disappeared even in this Arcetri neighbourhood, the most 
simple and countrified side of Florence. The people, 
from the outside, look well-to-do and comfortable, and on 
festal days the young of both sexes walk about the roads 
in cheerful happy bands. They never go in couples, as 
we everlastingly see them on the same occasions in 
England; but the boys were together, and the girls 
together; The figures of the women in the long plain 
skirts and coloured shirts struck me as very graceful and 
dignified. George Eliot says of Eomola : ' Let her muffle 
herself as she will, everyone wants to see what there is 
under her veil, for she has that way of walking like a 
procession.' That is just what one may say of many of 
these young Tuscan women. She also says : ' There has 
been no great people without processions, and the man 
who thinks himself too wise to be moved by them to any- 
thing but contempt is like the paddle that was proud of 
standing alone while the river rushed by.' 

All my early time at Florence was spent in driving 
about, seeing villas, wandering through the poderes, 
resting and drawing.. For the amateur sketcher, what a 
mental struggle it is !— whether to give the time to drawing, 
or to seg all one can. One day we started at eight, and 



344 MORE POT-POURRI 

drove up to Monte Senario, fifteen miles or so on the 
Bologna Eoad. This took us past the villa we lived in as 
children. I found that all had been much changed and 
grown up. Even the road — which in my day passed 
between walls out of which grew the large, handsome 
house — was now turned to the left, and the space between 
it and the villa thickly planted with evergreens, thus 
entirely depriving it of its original Italian character. 

I can remember now the mysterious tremble with 
which I used sometimes to lie awake at night and hear 
the tinkle of the bell of the dead-cart as it passed under the 
windows up to the cemetery on the hill. I had been told 
no coffins were used, and I always thought some one 
might wake during the long drive. The morning we 
went to Monte Senario the weather was lovely, and, 
though rather hot on starting, it soon got delicious ; and 
as we reached the higher ground many spring flowers 
remained. I particularly noticed quantities of the blue 
Italian Borage, growing small and low on dried banks and 
a sheet of gentian-blue bloom. Grown in good soil in 
English flower borders it is coarse and leafy, and flowers 
but little ; at least, that is my experience. I shaU find it a 
most valuable plant in Surrey if it will grow in poor, dry 
places. Last autumn, after I got home, I immediately 
moved some of my plants of Italian Borage to the driest, 
sunniest spot in the garden. I shall see if it will flower as 
abundantly as it did in Italy. The Eush or Italian Broom 
ought to be sown every year in light soils, as it is such 
a useful July-flowering plant, and rarely seen — not being 
quite hardy — in Surrey. 

The villas of the rich that I saw round Florence — and, 
of course, there are a great many which I did not see — are 
to be recognised by the fact that the Vine and OUve, Lemon 
and Pomegranate, Fig and Mulberry, are turned out for the 
planting of Laurels, Deodars and other conifers, Bhodo- 



JUNE 345 

dendrons, and coarse-growing, unpruned shrubs. The 
beautiful old walls are often levelled to the ground, to 
make a slope of coarse-growing grass ; or the wall formerly 
used for the trained and well-pruned Vine is smothered 
with a mass of untended creepers. The newly planted 
Crimson Eambler is doing very well and making excessive 
growth, though it will never be a general favourite, as it 
flowers too late and is not a marketable Eose ; so the 
gardeners despise it, which is lucky, as its colour is not 
good. The greatest crime of all as regards the spoiling of 
Italian gardens is destroying the effect of space and cool- 
ness, and at the same time entirely shutting out the view 
by planting trees — say, even a row of Poplars. The old 
gardens as perhaps Dante and Boccaccio saw them are 
now smothered in Virginia Creeper, and made to look 
as much like a villa at Hampstead or Putney as possible. 
Magnolias are crowded out, and Camellias seem no longer 
cultivated (I suppose, because they are out of fashion in 
English conservatories) ; and instead of the cool gray 
gravel, so easily kept raked and weeded in the old days, 
unsatisfactory grass paths are attempted. In the garden 
that I especially remember, having spent months there 
twice in my life, the view towards the city and the Val 
d'Arno right away to the Carraras — which on favoured 
evenings are rubies or sapphires or beaten gold against 
the sky — all this, so ineffaceably impressed on my memory, 
is now hidden from sight by a dark, gloomy, tangled mass 
of evergreens. As regards the modern treatment of newly 
made gardens in Florence, it is only fair to say that I saw 
them much too late, all attention being given to make 
them beautiful up to the end of May, as at about that 
time most of the English visitors fly northward. 

The gardens which gave me most pleasure were those 
which had remained in the hands of Italians and retained 
their old character. All over the world the English have 



346 MORE POT-POURRI 

an insane, inartistic, though perhaps natural desire, not 
to develop the capabilities of the soil and climate in which 
they are forced to hve, which would give a real interest 
to every plot of cultivated ground inhabited by the white 
man, but to have a garden as like ' home ' as possible — 
to make a lawn which fails and is ugly, and to plant a 
shrubbery which grows apace and chokes everything 
really worth growing. 

I got last year from Seville a letter describing what a 
Southern garden should be : ' The Alkasar Garden is the 
most beautiful I ever saw : very neglected as regards 
individual plants, but so lovely as a whole. The beds are 
all sunk. You walk between dwarf Myrtle hedges on 
tiled, paved, or brick paths, and every now and then you 
come to a round point with coloured tile seats. Some of 
the outside Myrtle hedges are waist-high and very fine. 
The beds are eighteen inches below the path, and again 
divided by little Myrtle hedges six inches high (no doubt 
the origin of our Box edgings). They are mostly filled with 
Violets and sweet-scented shrubs, and above tower great 
Magnolias, Lemons, Oranges, Verbenas, HeUotrope, Jas- 
mines in clumps, and a host of other things I do not know 
the names of. Here and there the path leads to a great 
raised marble tank or Moorish bath. There are innumer- 
able small fountains sunk and tiled ; round one of these is 
a great tiled walk with Orange-trees sunk in round holes 
about two feet deep, making a fine double avenue. I fancy 
the garden is pretty much as it was originally laid out by the 
Moors. I wish you could see it. The Spaniards have added 
their favourite carnations grown in pots, but little else. 
It seemed to me that the style might well be copied in 
England, making the beds much less ; certainly the little 
shallow fountains would look lovely anywhere. We have 
seen one or two other gardens, always the sunk beds and 
tiled or paved paths, and always Violets used as grass 



JUNE 347 

round the roots of anything. Where we are has been an 
eye-opener to me about the English abroad and their 
narrowness in household management. Our garden was 
made by an Englishman, so all our beds are raised, and 
are washed away in every storm, and the would-be gravel 
path is most of it in the high road below. Your book has 
been of the greatest use in our tiny garden. Even though 
the conditions are so different, the spirit is the same.' 

My dear young friend a little misses the spirit of what 
I mean when she thinks the system of the garden she 
describes can be brought to England. Where there is 
frost and damp, such things get soon spoilt and injured, 
and look mournful and decayed. Broken-up paving- 
stones are pretty in a formal garden, and — planted with 
Lavender, Pinks, Carnations, Eosemary, Saxifrages, and 
Eoses — can be made to look lovely at all seasons. But 
sunk beds as she describes them, which are perfect for 
irrigation in the South, would never do here. The plants 
would damp off. Eaised beds, however, are undesirable 
even in England in light soils. We can no more imitate 
what is best in the South than they can imitate our 
velvet lawns and our sweeping Beech-trees. Planting the 
Viola odorata (the Old English garden Violet) under 
every shrub or tiny Gooseberry and Currant bush in both 
flower and kitchen garden has been a great success with 
me in Surrey. If tried with even Czar Violets, which 
require more care and cultivation, it would be a failure. 
The cultivation of Carnations in pots might be more 
carried out in England — with advantage, I think. And it 
would be better if the pots were painted or glazed half- 
way down, as done on the Continent, to prevent evapora- 
tion. The single-branching Larkspurs of all colours were 
grown in pots at Florence, and looked so well. I am 
trying some. They are far prettier than the double 
annual Larkspur generally grown in England. 



348 MORE POT-POURRI 

The two most beautiful villas I saw truly carried out, 
with their lovely grounds, the half -monkish ideal expressed 
by Newman : ' By a garden is meant mystically a place 
of spiritual repose, stillness, peace, refreshment, and 
delight.' Our gay, modern, brilliant, flowery English 
parterres and Scotch and Irish gardens express, to my 
mind, none of this. Apart from everything else, their 
limited size renders this impossible. They tell us a garden 
is the reward of toil ; the earth's cry of delight that winter 
is over and gone ; the fuU enjoyment of plenty and rich 
colour, reqtdring constant care ; not a place of ' spiritual 
repose, stillness, and delight.' 

The more splendid of these two villas was, tradition 
says, designed by Michael Angelo, and it is worthy of his 
brain and hand. In its large simplicity it reminds one 
of his will : ' Lascio 1' anima a Dio e la mia roba ai piii 
prossimi parenti.' This villa stands many miles high on 
the hillside south-west of Florence, and is approached by 
the usual stately Cypress avenue. Its massive plain front 
and its open arcade are most impressive. On the right 
was the solemn shade of the Ilex grove, and beneath was 
the boundless view of sunlit Elorence. 

The other villa, most wonderful of all as regards its 
surroundings and views, was Villa Gamberaia (which 
means, 'Pool of the Crayfish'), four or five miles from 
Florence beyond Settingiano. I suppose everyone who 
goes to Florence sees it, or used to do so ; now it is more 
difficult. Napoleon III. lived in it at one time. I wonder 
if in after-life his thoughts sometimes turned with 
sorrowful regrets to the peaceful days passed there? 
Here were Cypresses taller and straighter than any I 
had ever seen ; long green alleys ending in small temples ; 
high walls over which Oleanders tossed themselves, their 
branches heavy with the bloom of their exquisite pink 
flowers ; and all the long afternoon of the late June day 



JUNE 349 

the nightingales sang. Why in colder climes do they 
stop singing so much earlier in the year, and here they 
sing well into midsummer ? With the exception of these 
nightingales in favoured woods, the birds are very silent 
in Italy in June. But the sounds are many — frogs, 
insects, the constant singing of the grasshoppers. Keats 
says: 'The poetry of Earth is never dead. When all 
the birds are faint with the hot sun and hide in cooling 
trees, a voice will run from hedge to hedge about the new- 
mown mead. That is the grasshopper's.' 

For associations with the South, there is nothing in 
the way of sounds to equal the sad call of the Httle night- 
owl — or aziola, as the Italians call it. The following 
colloquial poem of Shelley's, if not a gem amongst his 
lyrics, expresses the tender affection we must all feel for 
this little bird : 

' Do you not hear the aziola cry ? 
Methinks she must be nigh,' 

Said Mary, as we sate 
In dusk, ere stars were lit or candles brought; 
And I, who thought 
This Aziola was some tedious woman, 

Ask'd, ' Who is Aziola ? ' How elate 
I felt to know that it was nothing human. 

No mockery of myself to fear or hate I 
And Mary saw my soul, 
And laugh'd and said, ' Disquiet yourself not ; 
'Tis nothing but a little downy owl.' 

Sad aziola t many an eventide 

Thy music I had heard 
By wood and stream, meadow and mountainside. 
And fields and marshes wide, — 
Such as nor voice, nor lute, nor wind, nor bird. 

The soul ever stirr'd ; 
Unlike, and far sweeter than them all. 
Sad Aziola ! from that moment I 
Loved thee and thy sad cry. 



350 MORE POT-POURRI 

One of my first inquiries on my arrival in Florence 
was about an old villa that in my time belonged to a rich 
Eussian. They said it was all swept away and the 
treasures gone to St. Petersburg. The reason this viUa 
made so deep an impression on me was that there I saw 
for the first time a picture of ' Paolo and Francesca ' ; it 
was by Ary Soheffer. I was so young that it set me 
wondering how Dante could call it HeU and yet leave 
them together. The same thought has been rendered 
finely, I tliink, by a young friend who signs himself ' M. B.' 
His sonnet was written on seeing the much stronger and 
more beautiful representation of the same subject by Mr. 
Watts : 

Though borne like withered leaves upon a stream, 
Perished and dead, they would not live again. 
Nor in the hard world face the wiles of men ; 
Their past is but the haunting of a dream. 
And yet they would not sleep in Asphodel, 
Nor — for without remorse is their regret — 
Drink deep of bliss and utterly forget ; 
Not for all Heaven would they exchange their HeU. 
And they give thanks because their punishment 
Is sealed and sure, because their doom shall be 
To go in anguish through eternity 

Together on the never-resting air. 
Beyond all happiness is their content 

Who know there is no end to their despair. 

At the end of June the whole colour of the country 
had changed and become much richer from the corn 
ripening. This restored to the Olive-trees once more 
their gray colour in the sunlight, and in evening light 
they again looked cool and almost blue against the warm 
madder and ochre of the corn. How endless in Nature 
is the making of colour by contrast ! 

Custom often has in it more reason than at first 
appears. I never could understand why so few people 
go to Italy in summer. But the fact is they hunger for 



JUNE 35 1 

bright strong colour — blue skies and yellow sunsets, 
purple mountains and brilliant flowers. These they find 
in spring and autumn, to their hearts' content ; but summer 
in Florence is mellow and veiled, and very tender in 
colour, truly represented in Mason's pictures, and so 
totally unlike the typical water-colour drawings of Italy 
from the brush of Eichardson or Aaron Penley, much the 
fashion fifty years ago. 

At one villa I saw a pond of lovely Burmese goldfish, 
quite different from any I had ever before seen alive, and 
exactly resembling the fish in Japanese drawings and 
Chinese bowls — httle fat bodies, and large swimming 
bladders, and long waving tails which made their move- 
ments very swift and graceful. They were fed vnth little 
bits of wafer, the same as that used in CathoUc churches and 
also used all over the Continent for wrapping up powders so 
that you should not taste the medicine. The fish pounced 
on these delicate morsels with extraordinary rapacity 
and greed. I have never dared feed the goldfish in my 
fountain, as they remain so much healthier with only the 
natural food they are able to procure. Where the foun- 
tains are kept very clean, the best food for them, if these 
wafers cannot be procured, is crumbled vermicelli. 

JuTie nth. — My time was half over in Elorence 
before I went to the picture galleries at all — not because 
I did not wish to go, but there was so much else to see 
and enjoy and admire. It is almost useless to speak of 
the pictures themselves. Those who have seen them 
know what they are ; and to those who have not, no words 
would convey any idea. It was very interesting to me to 
realise how my own taste had altered. The outside of the 
Pitti, grand and massive as the building is, gives me no 
pleasure. Under the archway, and beyond the public 
entrance into the building, there is a little yard where 
a wonderful sight can be obtained of the Arabesque 



352 MORE POT-POURRI 

patterns which adorn the outside of the old Medici 
passage to the Uf&zi. It is worth while to go through to 
look at them. Inside the galleries, pictures that used to 
be pointed out to me as the great gems in my youth 
seemed now comparatively uninteresting. Botticelli, 
whom I at that time never heard of, stands indeed a head 
and shoulders above his contemporaries. Two quite 
little cabinet pictures in one of the small rooms at the 
Uflfizi gave me much to think of. One was the exquisite 
little 'Judith.' His rendering of the subject first gave 
me a kind of understanding why the old masters were so 
fond of the ghastly story which must have appealed to 
them from their own wars and dissensions. I have 
always hated the usual treatment of this subject — the 
bleeding corpse on the bed and the uphfted head in 
Judith's hand. But here the beautiful heroine widow, 
her deed accomphshed, her country saved, trips home 
again with stately pride across the open country. 
Warriors are in the distance, fields and flowers in front, 
and her child-like innocent face is turned full towards one. 
In one hand she holds the emblem of peace, an Ohve 
branch; in the other the sword of power. Behind her 
comes the maid with the handsome head of Holofernes in 
the meat-bag on her head. The maid's expression of 
mingled awe and admiration is quite as much beyond the 
time in variety of expression and powerful story-telling 
as is Judith's own, which shows one how she will shortly 
say with a loud voice : ' Praise, praise God, praise God, 
I say ; for He hath not taken away His mercy from the 
House of Israel, but hath destroyed our enemies by mine 
hands this night.' 

The other picture, ' Calumny,' is hung quite near. It 
is a little larger, and is unique and remarkable in every 
way; an allegorical picture full of thought. The idea 
was suggested to Botticelli by Lucian's description of a 



JUNE 353 

painting by Apelles. Por the benefit of those as ignorant 
as I was I may as well say that Apelles was a famous 
painter at the Court of the first Alexander, and then of 
Ptolemy, about 330 B.C. ; and that Lucian was a Greek 
writer of the time of Marcus Aurelius, and that " his 
manuscripts were brought from Constantinople to Italy 
about 1425, and printed for the first time at Florence 
in 1496, BotticeUi's own date being 1437-1515. 

The whole picture is painted with the greatest finish 
and delicacy, and with an immense wealth of detail. In 
the background are three highly decorated arches, with 
a pure blue sky, tenderly graduated, showing through. 
In the middle of the picture is Calumny, hurrying 
towards the Judge, and attended by two women repre- 
senting Hypocrisy and Treachery. Calumny drags a 
rather feeble young man, without clothes, by the hair of 
his head along the ground. He holds his hands up in an 
attitude of supplication, and is supposed to represent 
Innocence. Envy, a male figure clothed in shabby 
garments, stands between this group and the Judge's 
throne. Ignorance and Distrust are whispering into the 
long donkey's ears of the Judge. On the left of the 
picture is the black, draped figure of Eemorse, who turns 
and looks at a beautiful naked young woman represent- 
ing Truth. Calumny has seized and is carrying before 
the Judge Truth's lighted torch. It is impossible to look 
at this picture and not have brought to one's mind the 
wretched fate of the modern prisoner on the Devil's Island. 

Had nothing been preserved to us of Botticelli's but 
these two pictures, I think we should have known that he 
was one of the men who were most in advance of their 
time, and one of the greatest painters the world has 
ever known. To my mind, the BotticelUs in our own 
National Gallery give no sort of idea of his gifts and 
powers as seen at Florence, 

A A 



354 MORE POT-POURRI 

An old friend, to -whom I had written of my love of 
the early Tuscan painters when I was at Florence as a 
girl of twenty, answered me as follows, and I suppose 
many would agree with him : 

' The modern taste for the very early Florentine 
masters must, I think, be an acquired one, and though in 
your own case it may have seemed spontaneous I doubt 
whether any intellectual taste or tendency is wholly self- 
formed in the case of a girl of nineteen. At that impres- 
sionable age living in a mental atmosphere congenial to 
it, you with your quick receptive temperament probably 
imbibed from those around you, whose opinions on art 
were entitled to your respect, and without any conscious 
effort or critical process of your own, that sentiment 
about the early Florentine masters to which the writings 
of Euskin had already given so strong an impulse, and 
which was then the pervading sentiment of connoisseurs 
and persons interested in pictorial art. Perugino is the 
earliest master in whose works I can find Beauty — a 
quality essential to my enjoyment of Art as such. The 
earlier masters, Giotto, Cimabue, Taddeo Gaddi, Masaccio, 
Lippo Lippi, etc., seem to me only interesting.' 

With regard to Botticelli I feel that he alone perhaps 
among the Tuscans strikes the note which Berenson 
alludes to in the following passage from his 'Venetian 
Painters,' and I like to feel that Berenson's optimism 
about modern art and life is true : 

' Indeed, not the least attraction of the Venetian 
masters is their note of modernity, by which I mean the 
feeling they give us that they were on the high road to 
the art of to-day. We have seen how on two separate 
occasions Venetian painters gave an impulse to Spaniards, 
who in turn have had an extraordinary influence on 
modern painting. It would be easy, too, although it is 
not my purpose, to show how much other schools of the 



JUNE 355 

seventeenth and eighteenth centuries — such as the Flemish, 
led by Eubens, and the English, led by Eeynolds — owed to 
the Venetians. My endeavour has been to explain some 
of the attractions of the school, and particularly to show 
its close dependence upon the thought and feeling of the 
Eenaissance. This is perhaps its greatest interest, for, 
being such a complete expression of the riper spirit of the 
Eenaissance, it helps us to a larger understanding of a 
period which has in itself the fascination of youth, and 
which is particularly attractive to us because the spirit 
that animates us is singularly like the better spirit of that 
epoch. We, too, are possessed of boundless curiosity. 
We, too, have an almost intoxicating sense of human 
capacity. We, too, believe in a great future for humanity, 
and nothing has yet happened to check our delight in 
discovery or our faith in life.' 

The head of Eembrandt in his youth, painted by him- 
self, in the Pitti (not either of those in the Uffizi) is 
perhaps the most beautiful of his many self-painted por- 
traits. None, certainly, in the Eembrandt Exhibition at 
Burlington House this winter came near to it for beauty, 
in my humble opinion. 

There is also an unusual portrait of Charles I. and 
Henrietta Maria, painted together in one frame, divided 
only by the twisted column of an Italian window. I 
have never before seen a double portrait treated in quite 
the same way. It is Van Dyke at his best — so finished, 
so refined ! Perhaps he took extra pains, knowing it was 
going to the young Queen's Medicean relations, in the 
then far-away beautiful Morenee. 

I find I am doing exactly what I meant not to do, and 
must stop noticing pictures, as any guidebook describes 
all the best pictures quite enough. 

I found a treasure in one of the smaller rooms at the 
Pitti which Mr. Hare, at any rate, does not mention. It 

A a2 



3s6 MORE POT-POURRI 

was the most remarkable piece of furniture from some 
points of view I think I ever saw in my life, though 
perhaps many would call it unartistic. Historically, 
it is interesting from the religious attitude it represents. 
It was a large cabinet on a raised stand. It belonged to 
Cardinal Leopoldo dei Medici, and was placed in his 
dressing-room. One side of it, when the doors were 
opened, acted as an altar, with a delicately-carved crucifix 
in a recess, before which the Cardinal could say Mass. 
On the other side the doors opened on to an elaborate 
toilet table of a most luxurious kind, with looking-glasses 
and every other appliance. The whole piece of furni- 
ture contained a number of small drawers, many of 
them secret. The black wood of which it was made 
was highly polished and a beautiful specimen of cabinet 
work. The whole was richly inlaid, outside and in, 
with various marbles, stones, and alabasters of different 
colours and sizes. The veinings and colourings of these 
were used and adapted as the landscape backgrounds 
of wonderfully delicate little oil paintings, representing 
almost the whole of the Bible stories, both Old and New 
Testament. It requires hours to see this cabinet pro- 
perly, and among all the treasures in this wonder palace 
it is, perhaps, the object that gives one the greatest idea 
of the wealth and luxury of that God-and-Mammon 
period that can possibly be seen. It is supposed to have 
been made in Germany and painted by Breughel. Some 
paintings on wood, using the graining of the wood as 
suggestive of the landscapes, are the only attempts I have 
seen in modern art to carry out this idea of Breughel's 
paintings on stones. The natural markings of the wood 
give great variety to the composition of the landscape, 
This is very much increased by the varied materials used 
for|[the decoration of this marvellous cabinet. 

Of course I re-read ' Eomola ' ; everyone does and 



JUNE 357 

ought, as being in the atmosphere of Florence extra- 
ordinarily increases the enjoyment of what is in many 
•ways a very wonderful book, full of fine things and 
passionately sympathetic with women's trials. 

In a very old notebook of mine I find the following 
sentence. I have no idea by whom it was written ; but it 
so exactly describes why certain books, and indeed certain 
people, appeal to me when others that are in many respects 
better leave me cold and indifferent, that I repeat it now 
in my old age, agreeing with it as I did at twenty : 

' We readily overlook all that is tasteless and ignorant 
for the sake of that power which, in reminding us of the 
misery of the world, translates it into something softening, 
elevating, uniting. We should fuUy allow that some 
immortal work and a great deal of the most popular 
work is almost entirely without the feeling. There is 
scarcely a touch of it in Homer ; there is not a touch of 
it in many a novel much sought for at the libraries. 
But to us it appears one of the greatest gifts of the writer 
of fiction. It is not that we desire to be always com- 
templating the misery of the world ; when we take up 
a novel we often desire to forget it. But an author who 
does not know it cannot make us forget it ; and a writer 
who is to deliver us from its oppressive forms must be 
able to translate the manifold troubles of life, with all 
their bewildering entanglement, their distracting pettiness, 
into something that releases such tears as the foreign 
slaves shed on Hector's bier. " Their woes their own, a 
hero's death the plea." ' 

No modern novelist that I know does this better than 
George Ehot. 

In Florence, with the sky and the sunshine and the 
whole mind in a receptive condition, no effort was neces- 
'sary fully to appreciate ' Eomola.' What a difference 
that does make ! Beading some books at unfavourable 



3S8 MORE POT-POURRI 

times is as great an injustice towards the author as 
looking at pictures, no matter how beautiful, in the dark. 

June 19</i. — Sad news has come from England to-day 
of the death of Sir Edward Burne-Jones. What a loss- 

The following very simple little poem by Byron — not 
much known, I think — is not modern in feehng, but 
fits singularly, for those who beUeve in spirit-land, the 
death of a man like Burne-Jones : 

Bright be the place of thy soul 1 

No lovelier spirit than thine 
E'er burst from its mortal control 

In the orbs of the blessed to shine. 

On earth thou wert all but divine, 

As thy soul shall immortally be ; 
And our sorrow shall cease to repine 

When vre know that thy God is with thee. 

Light be the turf of thy tomb ! 

May its verdure like emeralds be ! 
There should not be the shadow of gloom 

In aught that reminds us of thee. 

Young flowers and an evergreen tree 

May spring from the spot of thy rest ; 
But no Cypress nor Yew let us see, 

For why should we mourn for the blest ? 

Those who do not believe in spirit-land in any think- 
able form — and I fancy they are many more than is gener- 
ally supposed — when brought face to face with death, 
mourn not for the peace and rest of those that are gone, 
but for themselves — their own personal grief and loss and 
misery — and feel a kind of humiUation that what they 
themselves prized most, or the person who loved them 
most, is gone from them. Such grief, like all our other 
selfishness, should be fought and controlled as much as 
we have strength for. The old notion of those who 
prayed against sudden death was of a death unprepared, 



JUNE 359 

unsanetified by the Church, that did not give the same 
chance of eternal happiness to some one they loved which 
was freely granted to the majority. This . indeed was a 
thought only to find relief in wailing and gnashing of 
teeth. Now we say : ' What was best for them was worst 
for us, but what does that matter ? ' 

In speaking of Burne-Jones's work many years ago 
Mr. Eusldn said : ' His work is simply the only art-work 
at present produced in England which will be received by 
the future as classic. I know that these will be immortal, 
as the best things the mid-nineteenth century in England 
can produce, in such true relations as it had through all 
confusion retained with the paternal and everlasting art 
of the world.' And do we not all feel this is true ? 

Juiic 2ith. — This is the great Florentine ' Pesta,' of 
which I had often heard and never seen. We were too 
idle to go down to the ceremonies at the cathedral in the 
morning, but in the afternoon there were Vespers at the 
baptistery, and the sight was most characteristic and 
curious. Every child that is born in Elorenoe is still 
baptised there, and the water is still salted as of old. There 
were men, women, and children crowding through — both 
of the large doors being opened wide to the sunny Piazza. 
These openings were veiled during the service by a long, 
black, thin curtain. In the middle, raised on an altar and 
again raised on steps, was the beautiful jewelled Ben- 
venuto Cellini John the Baptist shrine. The people went 
up and touched it, and mothers after touching the shrine 
then touched the babies in their arms, who held up their 
tiny hands to receive the touch, and afterwards reverently 
kissed their own fingers. 

Strong peasant men were there, young and old. It 
cannot be one of the least of the mysterious Florentine 
bonds, this baptistery which brings back to the inhabitants 
the recollection of every child that is born to them, more 



36o MORE POT-POURRI 

especially as the infant mortality must be prodigious. A 
handsome mother and daughter knelt just before me on 
the inarble floor, types of to-day. The mother, old and 
tired and hot, mumbled prayers, but not with devotion. 
The cold hand of Time had laid hold on her. If the old 
are religious it is mentally, not passionately, and it takes 
the form of 'calm repose and peace divine.' The 
daughter, handsome though not very young, with coal- 
black hair, said her prayers with closed eyelids and a 
passionate pathos in her face, softening for a time her 
somewhat masculine features — a perfect example of life's 
disappointments, not yet utterly without hope. 

Passing out into the glorious evening sunshine, we 
went inside the large bare Duomo, beautiful to me from 
its size, its majesty, its cool shades, illuminated by the 
pouring in of the bright summer western sun, which 
formed rays of light across the darkness. A full 
choral Vesper was not yet quite ended, and the boys 
threw back their heads and flung out their high notes 
echoing into the dome. It was not very reverent or 
beautiful, but it sounded well, as it mounted in wave upon 
wave of sound into the echoing cavities of the great vault. 
Many people think the inside of the Duomo ugly, and of 
course one can see how it was the origin of much ugliness 
that came afterwards ; but it has a grand beauty of its own, 
and the jewelled glass is the exact sort of old glass I 
admire — most vague in design, but strong in colour, and 
glowing with a richness beyond the finest enamel. 

Later in the evening we went on to a balcony on the 
Lung' Arno, to see the fireworks let off from the opposite 
hill of San Miniato. I had not seen good fireworks for 
many years. They may be as good at the Crystal Palace, 
and no doubt are, but never can the whole scene be any- 
thing like as lovely as those fireworks on this night of San 
Giovanni, with the background of the San Miniato hill, and 



JUNE 361 

tHe river in front a mirror of reflections. Every street 
poured its crowd in all directions on to the Lung' Arno. 
We had excellent places, and my companion, in a burst of 
enthusiasm, seized my arm and said : ' I don't care, it is 
simply the most beautiful thing in Art or Nature I have 
ever seen.' High over all hung the young moon in the 
clear lapis lazuli sky. The crovrd poured along in a 
ceaseless stream, but it was impossible to imagine any- 
thing more quiet and orderly. From the absence of 
strangers, the streets were so empty in the daytime one 
wondered where the people could possibly all come from 
now. 

June 26ife. — I was faithful to my tastes, and though I 
had little time I went to the Botanical Garden in the 
town. It had nothing in it very remarkable; all the 
greenhouse plants were out in the open, and many of our 
Northern plants were growing somewhat shabbily in pots as 
botanical curiosities, in the way we grow Southern things 
at home. The beautiful Gatalpa syringcBfolia was in full 
flower here, and in all other good Florentine gardens. The 
same with Trachelospermum jasminoides, which hung over 
all the walls in the greatest profusion, scenting the air for 
yards round. I am sure this plant is generally too much 
coddled at home, and would do better if sunk out during 
the summer and well watered ; it is a greenhouse plant 
well worth growing. Asclepias incarnata and Asolepias 
tuberosa were very sweet ; both these and Solanum glaucum 
are quite worthy of a place in a fair-sized greenhouse. 
Bupelia juncea, from Mexico, struck me as a pretty 
greenhouse plant, with red flowers and weedy grovrth. 
Iris pseudacorus was growing in a huge sunk pot, half 
earth, half water. 

There was a large collection of Hydrangeas — plants 
so easy to increase that I think our greenhouses ought to 
contain greater varieties. These four struck me as good : 



362 MORE POT-POURRI 

Hydraiigea quercifoUa, H. macrocephala, H. hortensis, 
and H. chinensis. 

Variegated Maple is grown a good deal at Morenee, 
and, when skilfully used and much pruned, it can be 
made a considerable feature in any large garden — mixed 
with dark evergreens, such as Hollies, Privets, Irish 
Yews, etc., as it has almost the whiteness of flowers at a 
distance. Cassia australis struck me as being a hand- 
some greenhouse evergreen. 

The garden was full of sunk tubs for watering, with 
pieces of stone and small plants round the edge. Convol- 
vulus mauritanicus is a plant to grow at home in consider- 
able abundance ; it comes easily from seed, and was lovely 
in this garden in half -shade under shrubs. Mine has Uved 
out now three winters, its roots protected by a small shrub. 
It is also very pretty grown in baskets in the greenhouse. 

I was disappointed at seeing no Lilies growing in 
gardens in Florence, though plenty of the Lilium 
candidum were sold in the market. How excellent is 
Mr. Stephen PhilUps's line on a Lily garden : ' A tragic 
odour like emotion rose.' That is a complete description 
in words of the scent of some flowers, -such as I had long 
sought for, but, I think, never found before. 

Apparently nothing in my first book really offended 
the reviewers, and perhaps even the pubUc, so much as 
my non-appreciation of Virginia Creeper and Ampelopsis 
veitchii. The remarks of one critic are typical of many 
others : ' Very gently and respectfully we would say " Avoid 
the dictatorial attitude," and we would point our mean- 
ing by an ancient horticultural saying of the Midlands : 
" Different people have different opinions — some like 
apples, and some like inions." Mrs. Barle, it seems to us, 
might well consider that occasionally others may, vrithout 
being guilty of sin against art, admire that which revolts 
her sense of the beautiful, Prankly, her denunciation of 



JUNE 363 

Ampelopsis mitchid hurt our feelings. But the dicta- 
torial tone, the inability to recognise two sides to a 
question, is characteristic of even the greatest gardeners.' 
What I did not sufficiently explain is that it is not a 
plant that I condemn in itself, but what I do condemn is 
the placing of it in wrong situations, or allowing it to 
destroy architectural beauty. I have under my own bed- 
room window an ugly piece of slate roofing which this 
autumn was covered with a mixture of Virginia Creeper 
and Ampelopsis — the latter still green, the former one 
mass of ruby and gold. Nothing could be more beautiful. 
But then it is growing where hardly anything else would 
grow, which is different to sacrificing a good south or 
west wall for this one week of beauty in the year. 

My objection to Ampelopsis veitchii was certainly 
increased while in Florence, as it grew with the greatest 
profusion in every direction, and as a picturesque object 
(say, for sketching) the beautiful old Porta Eomana was 
entirely destroyed and put out of tone, both with sky and 
earth, by being almost entirely covered with this terrible 
brilliantly green Japanese Ivy. 

June 27th. — Just before I left I went to see the 
Eiccardi Palace in the Via Cavour. The chapel I 
thought, as I suppose everyone does, one of the most in- 
teresting gems in Florence ; it is so wonderfully fresh in 
colour. The frescoes are by Benozzo Gozzoli. We are 
told his mind was less exalted than Era Angelico's. That 
may easily be. His pictures are quite mundane, but the 
costumes and the landscape backgrounds are thoroughly 
interesting, and the luxurious grandeur in these wonder- 
fully preserved frescoes give one a thrilling idea of , the 
times. I was especially interested in the garden back- 
grounds. The Eoses were quite cultivated Eoses and very 
large. The Cypresses were faithfully painted as I have 
seen nowhere else ; some were quite natural, others again 



364 MORE POT-POURRI 

were cut in rounds and shapes, probably the earliest re- 
presentation of topiary work in the world. The flower 
beds were cut out in the grass with hedges such as one 
sees to-day round any modem hotel. The extraordinary 
preservation of the frescoes is owing to their having been 
in the dark. Now the owners have made a large window, 
and a Philistine proprietor years ago cut a door through 
the principal fresco. The portraits of the Medicis on 
horseback, and the splendid clothes, figure, and horse of 
the Eastern Emperor, impressed me with the feeling it 
was quite the finest thing of the kind I had seen. 

I suppose everyone climbs up to the top of the old 
Palazzo Vecchio and sees that old Medicean room, once 
the library, where the huge white doors of the book- 
cases are panelled with the most beautiful old maps. If 
I remember rightly, America is represented by the island 
of Cuba ! The colour of them is splendid. Even modern 
maps would make a beautiful decoration for a white room, 
I think. German modern maps are exceedingly well 
coloured, and some representing seas and currents have a 
mystery and poetry quite their awn. 

The comparatively new pubUc road on the San 
Miniato hill, which Mr. Hare calls ' an enchanting drive,' 
struck me as extremely well done, very weU planted, and 
all the plants well blocked together. In a few more years, 
when it has lost its ' new ' look, it wiU be very beautiful even 
from a gardener's point of view. The variety of Oleanders 
— from snow-white to darkest red — were the best I have 
ever seen. 

The interior of San Miniato is one of the most curious, 
old, and impressive churches in all Florence ; but the 
strange burial-ground, dug apparently into the rock, is to 
my mind pathetically ugly. The utter bad taste of it is not 
on so large a scale as the famous cemetery at Genoa, 
which to the very utmost carries out Mr. Euskin's words 



JUNE 36s 

on modern Italian sculpture: 'Trying to be grand by 
bigness and pathetic by expense.' 

Who that has ever been there does not share that 
pining for the beauty and sunshine of the South ? It is 
common to so many natures, and almost universally 
expressed by the poets. The return need of the South for 
the strengthening influence of the North I have rarely 
read in prose or poetry. Mrs. Browning seems to have 
realised that there is such a need : 

' Now give us lands where the Olives grow,' 

Cried the North to the South, 
' Where the sun with a golden mouth can blow 
Blue bubbles of grapes down a vineyard-row ! ' 

Cried the North to the South. 

' Now give us men from the sunless plain,' 

Cried the South to the North, 
' By need of work in the snow and the rain 
Made strong, and brave by familiar pain I ' 

Cried the South to the North. 

' Give luoider hills and intenser seas,' 

Cried the North to the South, 
' Since ever by symbols and bright degrees 
Art, child-like, climbs to the dear Lord's knees,' 
Said the North to the South. 

' Give strenuous souls for belief and prayer,' 

Said the South to the North, 
' That stand in the dark on the lowest stair, 
While affirming of God, " He is certainly there," ' 
Said the South to the North. 

' Yet oh 1 for the skies that are softer and higher,' 

Sighed the North to the South ; 
' For the flowers that blaze, and the trees that aspire 
And the insects made of a song or a fire,' 

Sighed the North to the South. 

' And oh 1 for a seer to discover the same,' 

Sighed the South to the North ; 
' For a Poet's tongue of baptismal flame. 
To call the tree or the flower by its name,' 

Sighed the South to the North. 



366 MORE POT-POURRI 



JULY 

A night journey — Dawn in the train — Passing Chamber! — A water- 
cure near Geneva — Amiel and his ' Journal Intime ' — The New 
Museum at Geneva — M. Correvon's garden — An afternoon at 
B&le — Boecldin again — Cronberg and the ' Pahnengarten ' — 
Planting shrubs to secure an especial effect — The cultivation of 
Alpine Strawberries — Receipts. 

July 1st. — I left Florence on one of the last days of 
June, with oh ! such a sad heart and a feeling I should 
never see it again. I ana so conscious, as I said before, of 
the ■wisdom of spending the rest of my hfe at home and 
foregoing the pleasures of travel, as with my nature long 
absences unfortunately diminish the pleasure and interest 
I take in my own concerns, and regret at what I leave 
behind comes between me and my happiness when I am 
away. The weather had been wet, ajid directly the 3un 
was obscured the temperature was, if anything, rather too 
cool. I do love a night railway journey, because of the 
chance it gives one of seeing that most wondrously lovely 
effect of Nature which we so seldom do see — this growth 
of the famous 'more light,' Goethe's last words — the 
triumphal march of the coming on of day. I determined to 
enjoy it in spite of the presence of seven Italians, one 
more than the carriage was intended to hold, who got in at 
Genoa at four o'clock in the morning and never ceased 
talking amongst themselves. 

It is not only the beauty of the growing light, but the 
mysterious human awakening, the early smoke that coils 
from some cottage chimney, the opening window, the man 



JULY 367 

who goes out to his work along the road — every little 
incident seems to be full both of the poetry and pathos of 
life. In a tiny volume lately published of remarkable 
verse by A. E., ' Earth Breath and other Poems,' the poem 
called ' Morning ' expresses in part my feeling : 

We had the sense of twilight round us ; 

The orange dawn lights fluttered by ; 
And thrilling through the spell that bound us 

We heard the world's awakening cry. 

We felt the dim appeal of sorrow 

Eolled outward from its quiet breath, 
To waken to the burdened morrow. 

The toil for life, the tears for death. 

And out of all old pain and longing 

The truer love woke with the light. 
We saw the evil shadows thronging. 

And went as warriors to the fight. 

The last line is to me an especially true note. 
Indifference, blindness, despondency, all these I hate ; but 
to meet Ufe with courage, both for oneself and others, that 
must be the real aim. But courage is rather strength 
than happiness. 

Professor Blackie said somewhere, ' There is nothing 
fills me with more sorrow occasionally than to see how 
foolishly some people throw a,way their lives. It is a 
noble thing to live ; at least, a splendid chance of playing 
a significant game — a game which we may never have 
the chance to play again, and which is surely worth while 
to try to play skilfully ; to bestow at least as much pains 
upon it as many a one does on billiards or lawn tennis.- 
But these pains are certainly not always given, and so the 
game of life is lost, and the grand chance of forming a 
manly character is gone, for no man can play a game well 
who leaves his moves to chance, and so instead of fruitful 



368 MORE POT-POURRI 

victories, brilliant blunders are all the upshot of what 
many a record of distinguished lives has to present.' All 
this from a night journey. It was broad daylight as we 
came down the beautiful flowery slopes of the Cenis in a 
luxurious French corridor carriage, so superior in every 
way to the Itahan one we had just left. 

The English used to be accused of being the great 
eaters of Europe when I was young. I do not think that is 
the case now. In our carriage was a middle-aged couple — 
I should imagine, brother and sister — and evidently, as is 
so often the case with other couples, the gray mare was the 
better horse. She travelled with curious deliberation ; first 
she wrapped up both the hats in beautiful bright Italian sUk 
handkerchiefs to preserve them from dust. Her black hair, 
I suppose she thought, could be cleaned without expense. 
She frizzled up her curls and wiped her dark, fat, ugly face. 
She then produced a huge powder-puff and powdered her 
face well all over. The man bore all this patiently ; he 
was thin and. bald, and much more refined-looking than 
she was. He placed a black silk cap on his head. Then 
she opened a large dog-basket filled with a most dainty 
luncheon. Sandwiches folded up in a beautifully clean, 
damp napkin began the meal. Then were eaten large 
slices of meat and bread, mugs full of rich milk, cheese 
(of which she must have eaten eight or ten ounces), and all 
this with a resigned calm, as if she were performing a 
sacred duty which she owed, not to herself, but to society. 
The meal wound up with beautiful ripe Apricots — grovra, 
I am sure, on their own Lombardy estate — and a home- 
made plum cake like an English one. The remains, which 
were carefully packed up, would have fed a carriageful, 
and, I confess, made me feel quite greedy, my humble 
bread and cherries having nearly come to an end. When 
they had eaten their fill, superior peppermint lozenges 
were produced by the lady and shared by her companion ; 



JULY 369 

not one, but six or seven were slowly consumed in the 
same resigned, sad way. This was to assist digestion, I 
presume. Calm sleep then supervened to both, and their 
labours were over. In the seat opposite me was a man 
in the dress of an ecclesiastic, with a face that might have 
belonged to Eousseau's famous Savoyard vicar — a calm, 
intellectual face, that would have looked well carved in 
the mellow, amber-coloured marble of a Florentine tomb. 
My travelling companions — externally, at any rate — were 
strong contrasts ! 

I never can pass through this valley of Chamb^ri, 
with its beautiful mountains all around, without a 
strange thrill at the thought that here Eousseau lived and 
botanised for so many happy years in his youth, or 
calmly worked in the garden of his early love, Mme. 
de Warens. Her house is still shown. Some years ago 
I spent a day in ChambM, but only saw this house from 
the top of the castle tower, my companions preferring 
other sights to the romantic pilgrimage I wished to make 
to the abode where lived those two, who little dreamt they 
were weaving one of the strangest romances that was ever 
publicly confessed. 

I saw at that time in the museum a curious example 
of how in certain stages of civilisation the same customs 
prevail. They have there a large collection of curiosities 
taken from the remains of Lake villages ; amongst other 
things, beautiful pins and brooches, like those found in 
Scotland and Ireland. My attention was attracted to a 
halfmoon-shaped piece of wood scooped out and delicately 
carved and ornamented. I asked the custodian what it 
was. He pointed to a small photograph placed beside it, 
which represented a Japanese woman lying on the floor 
with a piece of similar wood under her httle head. 
Perhaps vrithout this photograph from the Far East the 

B B 



370 MORE POT-POURRI 

use of this primitive pillow from the Lake villages might 
have remained an unexplained curiosity. 

I spent a few days in the neighbourhood of Geneva to 
see some friends in one of the water-cure establishments 
so common now on the Continent— part hotel, part cure — 
very different from those primitive water-cures started in 
the early half of this century by Preissnitz at Graaf enberg. 
I picked up on an old bookstall some years ago a curious 
little pamphlet by Bulwer Lytton, called ' Confessions of a 
Water Patient.' He described how he had found his faith 
in the system strengthen, but he shrank from the terrors 
of a long journey to Silesia, ' the rugged region in which 
the probable lodging was a labourer's cottage, where the 
sulky hypochondriac would murmur and growl over a 
pubHc table spread with no tempting condiments.' It is 
the modern luxury of hotel life which, I think, now 
militates so much against all these cures. The patients 
have two large hotel dinners of doubtfully wholesome 
food, and lie about all day on luxurious chairs. This is 
very different from the return to primitive life, an essential 
part of the cure in the old system, and which in modern 
days has been better practised by I'AbbSKneipp than by any 
other that I have heard of. Now luxury and self-indulgence 
hold the poor modern, civilised patients in their grip 
wherever they go, and often they return no better than they 
went, in spite of douches and baths innumerable. 

I must confess I found it rather tr3ring coming from 
Florence to a hydropathic establishment in Switzerland. 
lUnesses, and especially what for want of a better name are 
called nerve-illnesses, are from their very obscurity quite 
extraordinarily depressing, and bring prominently forward 
the eternal injustice of Nature. Looking out of my vrindow 
at the gravelled yard and the heavy grove of trees gave me 
the feeling that I might be in a private lunatic asylum, or 
even in a prison, though I have never lived in either. The 



JULY 371 

thought may have been specially presented to my mind 
from the remarkable poem which appeared last year, 
'The Ballad of Beading Gaol,' for, looking up out of my 
window, I too could see over the opposite roof that little 
square of blue which suggested these two verses : 

I never saw a man who looked 

With such a wistful eye 
Upon that little tent of blue 

Which prisoners call the sky, 
And at every wandering cloud that trailed 

Its ravelled fleeces by. 

He did not wring his hands, as do 

Those witless men who dare 
To try to rear the changeling Hope 

In the cave of Black Despair : 
He only looked upon the sun, 

And drank the morning air. 

Looking down in the early morning I saw the patients 
in various quaint costumes hurrying to the morning 
douches. One, a middle-aged man, could not walk unless 
he pushed a large brown basket-work perambulator before 
him. He did not lean on it, and was very cheerful, but 
apparently it steadied his nerves, and with it his legs 
obeyed his wishes and he walked perfectly. Many people 
were, of course, quite well — merely accompanying the 
invalids. All these bathing-places strike me as being 
deadly dull and tiresome for those who are well, but 
foreigners seem to be much more patient about spending 
their hoUdays in health resorts than we are, for they look 
upon absolute idleness as the correct thing, and are con- 
tent to spend their waking hours in talking. This can 
be noticed any day at seaside places in France. ,To my 
mind, the perfect holiday for people in health is change 
of scene and occupation and interest ; certainly not what 
is called ' rest,' which means sitting out all day long, 

bb2 



372 MORE POT-POURRI 

doing absolutely notiiixig but chattering to people you 
have never seen before and will never see again. Without 
the object of being a companion to those we love I can 
imagine no greater trial. 

When I could stand the feeling of being surrounded 
by invalids no longer, I used to get outside the place and 
walk by the deep-cut cliffs, rather than banks, of the 
roaring, rushing river. The land was losing aU its vnld- 
ness, and was being built over ; but nothing can ever 
alter those steep-cut sides, which in old days might have 
been the scene of the following poem : 

By the hoof of the wild goat uptossed 
From the cliff where she lay in the snn 

Fell the stone 
To the tarn where the daylight is lost — 
So she fell from the light of the sun, 
And alone. 

Now the fall was ordained from the first 
With the goat and the cliff and the tarn, 

But the stone 
Knows only her life is accursed 
As she sinks in the depths of the tarn, 

And alone. 

Oh I Thou who hast builded the world. 
Oh ! Thou who hast lighted the snn. 
Oh! Thou who hast darkened the tarn, 

Judge Thou 
The sin of the stone that was hurled 
By the goat from the light of the sun 
As she sinks in the mire of the tarn 
Even now — even now — even now ! 

Beautiful, bright Geneva struck me as hard and ugly 
after the mellow softness of Florence. I had hoped to 
have seen many interesting places in the neighbourhood, 
the homes of those who are familiar to us as our own 
relatives. Perney I have never seen, nor Coppet, nor the 



JULY 373 

house on the south side of the lake where Byron lived, 
close to the one taken by the Shelleys and Clair that 
memorable summer after Byron's separation from his wife 
and before the birth of Allegra. Is it not all told in one of 
the best, most complete, and most interesting biographies of 
our day, Dowden's ' Life of Shelley ' ? George Eliot spent 
a happy time at Geneva as a girl, and I would gladly 
have seen 18 Eue des Chamoines, where she lived and 
rested and enjoyed herself with kind friends. And last 
of all, there is the quiet corner where Amiel worked, and 
lived and wrote. Some time after his death a very 
interesting review (by Lucas Malet) of Mrs. Humphry 
Ward's translation of Amiel's ' Journal Intime ' appeared 
in the ' Fortnightly Eeview ' for May or June 1896. She 
alludes several times to the short biography of Professor 
Amiel by Mile. Berthe Vadier, which was published in 
Paris, and thus describes the place where he lived : ' His 
windows overlooked a well-filled flower garden ; the walls 
of it were draped with Ivy and Virginia Creeper, above 
which rises the ancient college of Calvin, while through 
a side opening he could see the trees on the Promenade 
Saint- Antoine, and the Eussian church, its gilded cupolas 
backed by the purple hillside of the Grand Saleve.' 
Amiel's biographer says : ' II 6tait toujours beau.' 
Lucas Malet adds : ' The dome of his head is very 
fine, reminding one in height and purity of curve of the 
head of Shakespeare, or of the modern writer who in 
looks so curiously resembles him — Dante Eossetti. But 
with the brow all likeness to the great or lesser poet 
ceases : the eyes and lower part of the face lacking the 
glorious audacity and robustness of the first — we accept 
the witness of the Stratford bust and picture, rather than 
that of the fancy portrait in Westminster Abbey — equally 
with the sensuous heaviness that so mars the beauty of 
the second. For Amiel's face and head belong to a type 



374 MORE POT-POURRI 

not infrequent in French Switzerland, combining a certain 
largeness of ground plan with an almost pinched delicacy 
of detail. Eefinement rather than strength is its character- 
istic : a head in porcelain rather than a head in granite.' 
I copy this excellent description, as it exactly fits a large 
number of student men of our own day. Lucas Malet 
goes on to say : ' And truly — though perhaps at the risk 
of seeming a little fantastic — we may say that in Amiel's 
face there is more than a hint of that singular temper, the 
predominance of which in his printed utterances, whether 
in prose or verse, prevents their rising into the fiist rank 
of excellence. Both are a trifle artificial ; marked by 
something of over-civilisation and over-intellectuality. 
He wants body, so to speak. He is utterly deficient in 
what Mr. Henry James has so delightfully called " the 
saving grace of coarseness." In his case there is too 
complete a severing of those cords which bind us to the 
lower creation. Not only ape and tiger, but song-bird 
and sea-wind have died in him, as they must always run 
the chance of dying in highly educated persons — of dying 
so effectually indeed that such persons forget the very 
alphabet of that mysterious, primitive language to speak 
in which is not only the instinct of external Nature but 
the highest achievement of art.' Do we not all know 
people whom this description fits as admirably and com- 
pletely as it doubtless did the Geneva professor, though 
they may but partly share the intellectual gifts which made 
his journals so interesting a portrait, not only of himself, 
but of the type of human being whom he represents — 
always aspiring and never satisfied, always working and 
producing comparatively little result ? 

During my stay I was not able to see any of these 
houses, as I had wished, and only once did I stand in the 
town on the ever wonderful bridge where the Bhone, as 
blue as melted sapphires, tears through the arches. In spite 



JULY 375 

of endless scientific investigations, no explanation has 
ever been arrived at to account for the wonderful colour 
of the Ehone water. A few miles below the town, as we 
all know, the Arve rushes down from the valley of Cha- 
mounix, muddy in tone and charged with solid matter, 
and it colours for miles the blue waters of the Ehone. At 
length the Arve gains the mastery, and the Ehone, once 
polluted, does not recover its purity before reaching the 
sea. So remarkable a freak of Nature, however often one 
has heard of it, strikes one afresh with its obvious allegory. 

Instead of all the things I wished to see in Geneva, 
the one and only thing I did see was the new museum with 
its newly planted grounds, a short drive from the town, 
and called (goodness knows why) Ariana. The building 
is commodious and light, and well suited for its object. 
It is a pleasure to visit a museum with all the windows 
wide open ; they are generally such airless, stuffy places. 
But one cannot help being severe on modern buildings on 
one's return from Italy. Local museums always have an 
interest, and one generally finds something one could 
have seen nowhere else. In this case it was a most 
instructive and comprehensive collection of old china, 
very well arranged, named, and dated. Several specimens 
and manufactories were quite new to me — ^which is not 
astonishing, as I know so little about china. A tea service 
with butterflies and beetles on a white ground, catalogued 
' Nyon 1780 to 1800,' struck me as exceedingly pretty. 
Also some Oharlottenburg of 1790 was rough in shape> 
but beautifully painted, clear and clean. The only really 
ugly china was that of about the middle of this century. 

There were some curious old pictures, interesting 
rather chronologically and historically than from any 
artistic reason. A picture of the ' Eoi de Eome,' at about 
twelve years old, stated to be by Gerard, was curious, and if 
authentic would be a joy to a Napoleonic collector. Otto 



376 MORE POT-POURRI 

Marcellis and Auger Meyer, two insect and leaf painters 
of the end of the last century, interested me, as their 
oil-paintings resembled a curious water-colour I have, on 
a black ground, done by the well-known flower painter, 
Mme. Mariani. 

I spent two charming afternoons with the famous 
Alpine gardener. Monsieur H. Correvon. Though at this 
time of year his garden near Geneva was almost a dry 
desert, yet it was full of interest to the true gardener. 
M. Correvon said that gardening, as we imderstand it, 
had made but small way on the continent of Europe, and 
that almost all of his clients were English. Such obser- 
vations as I have been able to make quite confirm this 
assertion. A talk with him is alone well worth any trouble, 
and no garden-lover should fail to visit a man who has 
done so much to keep together and cultivate the mountain 
flora of Europe. I still hope I may go some spring on 
purpose to see his Alpine garden, which is high up on the 
edge of the snows of the great St. Bernard, a huge rockery 
cultivated under natural conditions. I cannot imagine 
anything more interesting to plant-lovers. M. Correvon 
is the author of many charming little books on Alpine 
and herbaceous flowers — ' Pleurs Colori6es de Poche dans 
les Montagues de la Suisse,' ' Les Orchid^es Eustiques ' 
(very enhghtening to the ignorant on the numbers of these 
plants), and ' Le Jardin de I'Herboriste,' carrying on to our 
day the theory of the health-giving virtues of medicinal 
plants, and often quoting I'Abb^ Kneipp. M. Correvon is 
a poet too, and can express as well as feel, which is not 
given to all of us. This is what he says on Linnaeus's 
humble flow^er : 

Sur les flanos de nos monts il est une fleurette 

Au suave parfum 
Qui fuit r^clat du jour, d^robant sa clochette 

Auz yeuz de 'importun. 



JULY 377 

Sa patrie est au loin, sous un oiel plus sfiv^re, 

Pris des glaces du Nord, 
Et nos torrents ont vu la charmante 6trang^re 

Croitre aussi sur leur bord. 

Ses jolis rameaux verts s'^talent sur la mousse 

De nos vaUons alpins, 
Formant, prte des vieux troncs sous lesquels elle pousse 

Le plus beau des jardins. 

II semble qu'un reflet d'aurore bor6ale, 

A survivre obstinS, 
S'attarde et se maange k la teinte d'opale 

De la fleur de Linn^. 

I have tried in many places for years to grow this 
plant ; it does not die exactly, but it pines, and looks sad, 
and has never once flowered with me. 

In some gardens round Geneva I saw several fine speci- 
mens of Hemerocallis fulva. The kind sold by nurserymen 
generally is the one figured in 'the ' BngUsh Flower 
Garden,' and slightly double. This probably makes them 
rather shy flowerers, and in England they are usually seen 
in mixed flower borders. The flowers of those I saw in 
Switzerland were quite single, probably a strong-growing 
type. They were planted in small, rather sunk beds 
in gravel or grass, in quite full sun, and copiously 
watered. They were one mass of flower in July, and 
really most effective, handsome plants — quite as effective 
as the Cape Agapanthus, so much commoner with us. 
They would look showy on lawns, and would, I think, do 
well in tubs, if they got sun and water enough. 

The lovely yellow Day-hly, which flowers earlier, has 
done well with me in full sun, never moved at all, but 
mulched and watered in dry weather at the flowering-time. 

There are several so-called new varieties of Hemero- 
callis, and all seem worth growing when they can be 
made really to succeed; but though apparently coarse- 



378 MORE POT-POURRI 

growing plants they must be fed, and in a shrubbery in 
this soil they would hardly make healthy leaves. 

The shrubberies round about the villas in the 
neighbourhood of Geneva were quite as badly praned — 
often all on one side, and as much choked up — as ours 
in England, or more so. All that the inhabitants seem to 
care for is what makes dense shade, which of course they 
need more than we do. A large Privet, called Ligustrum 
sinense, was flowering very well, and is effective and worth 
growing in villa gardens, in spite of its rather disagree- 
able smell. It is a good flowerer in Jtily, a rare quahty 
among shrubs. 

JiiJ/y 8th. — I carried out my wish and remained a 
night at Bale, resisting the greater convenience of the 
station hotel for the old, famous, and handsomely re- 
built post-house of ' The Three Kings,' with its balconies 
over the rushing, splendid Ehine. To the ignorant this 
river looks as if its water-power were stupendous ; as a 
fact it cannot even be used to make the electric light for 
the town, the level of the river varies so immensely. 

Time was short and the weather wet, so I only saw 
the museum or picture gallery, which was what I had 
come to see. Bale to me meant two things — Erasmus 
and Boecklin. It was at Bale that Erasmus lived and 
died. Froude's lectures on 'The Life and Letters of 
Erasmus ' had so recently brought that memorable time 
vividly before me ; and they enable us to look ' through 
the eyes of Erasmus at all events as they rose, with the 
future course of things concealed from him. This is the 
way to understand history. We know what happened, 
and we judge the actors on the stage by the light of it. 
They did not know.' Holbein's portrait of Erasmus is 
intensely interesting, and much more beautiful than 
the* one at Hampton Court, by the same painter, of 
this thin-lipped, intellectual, sensitive ' Trimmer ' of the 



JULY 379 

Middle Ages. Froude says: 'In early life death had 
seemed an ugly object to Erasmus. When his time 
came he received it with tranquillity. He died quietly 
at Bale on July 12, 1536, and was buried in state in the 
cathedral.' The last words of Froude's last lecture are : 
'I have endeavoured to put before you the character 
and thoughts of an extraordinary man at the most 
exciting period of modern history. It is a period of which 
the story is still disfigured by passion and prejudice. I 
believe you will best see what it really was if you will 
look at it through the eyes of Erasmus.' It is not always 
BO easy to see through the eyes of wisdom, especially for 
those who are passionate and prejudiced. 

"With regard to the typical pictures of Boecklin bought 
by his native town, I must confess my first impression 
was one of disappointment, in spite of their great power. 
His large figure-pictures of mermaids and mermen, 
fighting centaurs, etc., though in a way striking and re- 
markable, are to me positively ugly, both in colour and 
form, their only redeeming point being the beautiful 
cloud-effects. In skies he seems never to fail. But there 
is one small picture of exquisite beauty, which reaches 
the height of the Todten-Insel, called ' The Sacred Grove ' 
■^a deep, dark Ilex wood, just like those I had been 
lately seeing near Florence. On the right a sunlit plain or 
valley was only indicated, and the light seemed to beat 
upwards as in Nature. Along the dark wood came a white- 
robed procession of worshippers. On the left was a tiny 
stone altar, on which burnt the sacred fire, the smoke rising 
straight up into the absolutely still evening air. It was a 
beautiful picture — a thorough example of Mr. Buskin's 
description, in one of his Oxford lectures, of landscape 
painting. He says : ' Landscape painting is the thoughtful 
and passionate representation of the physical conditions 
appointed for human existence. It imitates the aspects 



38o MORE POT-POURRI 

and records the phenomena of the visible things which are 
dangerous or beneficial to men ; and displays the human 
methods of deahng with these, and of enjoying them 
or suffering from them, which are either exemplary or 
deserving of sympathetic contemplation.' 

On my return home I found a criticism of M. Arnold 
Boecklin's work in the ' Eevue des Deux Mondes ' for 
November 1897, by a fellow-countryman of his, 
M. Edouard Rod. He describes how admiring crowds 
came from all parts of Switzerland and the adjoining 
countries, as if for a pilgrimage, to see the loan collec- 
tion of Arnold Boeckhn's paintings, brought together that 
year and exhibited on the occasion of his having attained 
the age of threescore and ten. Many strangers came, 
somewhat doubtful as to the admiration to be bestowed 
on a painter almost entirely unknown out of Germany 
and German Switzerland. But the display seems to have 
convinced all that the work showed wonderful power and 
originaUty, executed in a novel manner. He was born 
rich and became poor, and for years his art seems to have 
had a hard and uphill fight with the world that did not 
appreciate him, and poverty that dogged his steps from 
Eome back to Bale. At last he went to Munich, where 
the distinguished novelist, Paul Heyse, seems to have 
held out to him a friendly and helping hand. Must one 
believe that success is necessary to an artist ? The fact 
is that Boecklin never really became himself till his 
individuality was recognised. His best works all belong 
to this latest period, and his admirers hope for him an 
illustrious old age. M. Edouard Eod adds : ' In looking 
at his later works I thought what a beautiful thing is 
old age when it remains healthy, brave, and laborious. I 
thought of those luminous evenings that sometimes are 
the end of glorious summer days.' Boecklin's work wiU 
•be all the more interesting in the days that are to come, 



JULY 381 

because it is singularly devoid of French influence. In a 
closing sentence of an admirable article on the Millais 
Exhibition Mr. Claude Phillips says : ' A vast wave, 
starting from France as a centre, is now more or less 
rapidly spreading itself over the whole expanse of the 
civilised globe, enveloping even us, who with a wise 
obstinacy most strenuously interposed our barriers of race 
and position as a defence. If it continues to advance, 
steady and resistless as heretofore, will there not, before 
the next century has spent half its course, be practically 
but one art ? ' But as time goes on will not individuality 
always assert itself, and may we not hope for BoeckUns 
in the future who will struggle and be free of all schools, 
even the French ? 

July 12th. — After Ba,le I came back once more to 
Cronberg. Nothing is so interesting, next to one's own 
garden, as the gardens one knows well, belonging to one's 
friends, especially when they have very different situa- 
tions and soil. At Cronberg the soil is very strong and 
tenacious, and bakes into a hard crust, about as different 
to my Bagshot sand as can be imagined. In all I say or 
recommend, it is most important to remember that in 
stiff, heavy soils everything that grows weU vrith me 
would do badly and require a perfectly different cultivation. 
The amateur should always recognise that when things do 
badly it is probably because of some mistake in cultivation, 
and that it is always worth while to try some other 
method. 

I went for the first time to the famous ' Palmengarten ' 
at Frankfort, which in its way is really beautiful, and a 
very well-kept, interesting pubhc garden — half pleasure 
garden, half botanical. The greenhouses are clean and 
orderly, and arranged in much better taste than they 
would have been at home. There is much more attempt 
at grouping foliage plants, Mosses, Ferns, etc., than one 



382 MORE POT-POURRI 

generally sees. The same with the outdoor planting; 
though artificial and formal, it was done with considerable 
thought and originality, the beds being thoroughly carpeted 
to keep away weeds, which in that style of gardening is 
the only possible plan. The colour-contrasts were good ; a 
brighter, hotter sun than ours, together with much watering, 
perfects this kind of garden. I found planting of effective 
groups in the grass was a distinct feature in gardens 
about Cronberg, and better done than I have ever seen in 
England, save in very exceptional cases. It is an art 
that can rarely be understood by gardeners, as I think it 
requires a certain amount of real art-training to be able 
to imagine effects both of form and colom-. A well- 
planted "White Variegated Maple ought to be in every 
garden, but it should not be allowed to get large and 
coarse. A contrast should be planted near it in the shape 
of broad-spreading leaves of some strong-growing, dark- 
foliaged plant. 

A much more dehcate mixture is a small red-leaved 
Japanese Maple and the Spircea Ulmaria, the common 
British Meadow-sweet. In strong soils this is a lovely 
combination on grass. In this kind of planting, it is 
most important to remember that if two spiral or two 
bushy things are planted together they interfere with the 
grace of form which is aimed at. In the just-mentioned 
plants the small red Maple would stand out strong from 
the grass, and would represent massiveness of form and 
colour. The well-grown specimens of the Spiraea — sure to 
do well, as they are wild plants — represent the grace of 
spiral growth and light, soft, white or cream colour. I 
find Eucalyptus Chinnii the hardiest of all the gum-trees, 
and most especially pretty in colour and form for this 
kind of gardening ; and it is also good for picking, as it 
lives well in water. These contrasts may be carried out 
in endless variety even in small gardens. 



JULY 383 

When in Germany I was much struck by a green- 
house full of the healthiest tree and winter-flowering 
Carnations I have ever seen. The gardener told me that 
the secret of the entire absence of injured leaves and 
spots from rust was that from July onwards, whether they 
are in pots or planted out, he syringed them once a week 
with the following mixture, which is also good for many 
other plants that are often blighted, especially Hollyhocks 
and Madonna Lilies : 

Mixture for killing' Carnation Disease.— (1) Two 

pounds of vitriol (copper) ; (2) four pounds of lime, fresh 
slaked ; (3) twenty-seven gallons of water ; (4) two pounds 
of sugar. (1) (2) and (3) should be mixed together till no 
longer blue, but clear. Then mix the sugar with the rest. 
Syringe with an insecticide every week in the early after- 
noon. The syringing should be done quickly and finely. 
The ordinary garden syringe with a fine rose does quite well. 

Here is the real Bordeaux mixturoj slightly different 
from the last receipt, used throughout the whole of 
France against the phylloxera on the Vines ; it is also a 
cure for the Potato disease : 

Bordeaux Mixture.— Dissolve three-quarters of a 
pound of carbonate of copper in a little warm water ; place 
it in a vessel that will hold six gallons of water. Slake half 
a pound of freshly burnt lime and mix it with the water 
so that it is about the thickness of cream. Strain it 
through coarse canvas into the solution of copper. Then 
fill up the vessel with water. 

With these two receipts it seems to me possible to try 
endless experiments on plants in any way affected by 
disease or rust. I shall certainly try it on Humea elegans 
when the plants begin to go off. Eor a few years I gave up 
growing this charming annual, the disease always making 
its'appearance. I cannot bear being beaten by a blight. 

Everywhere on the Continent I find abundant supplies 



384 MORE POT-POURRI 

of what used to be called Wild Strawberries, the cultiva- 
tion of which is receiving the greatest attention. The 
soil at Cronberg, being strong, is very good for growing 
Strawberries. When I arrived last year the main crop 
was just over, but the cultivated Alpines appeared in 
large quantities at every meal. These improved Alpine 
Strawberries last all through the summer and late on 
into the autumn. I never can understand why this class 
of Strawberry is so much neglected in all English gardens. 
They are rather troublesome to pick, and have to be done 
with clean hands, as they come to table without their 
stalks. 

In the ' Horticultural Journal ' for January 1899, 
there is a most interesting article by the great improver of 
the whole family of Alpine Strawberries — M. Vilmorin — 
which will do away with any excuse of not understanding 
their cultivation. But I wiU not quote from it, as anyone 
can get the number of the ' Journal ' who is sufBciently 
interested in the subject to wish for the last word. Up 
to the present I have never been successful in producing 
fruit in any sufficient quantity to make the growing of 
these Strawberries seem worth while, but I mean to try 
with improved knowledge to see if it cannot be done even 
on this sandy soil. A neighbour of mine has been most 
successful ; but a vein of clay runs through his garden, 
which is a helpful point, not to mention his greater 
knowledge and experience on the subject, having pre- 
viously grown them in France. He kindly wrote out for 
me the system which he practises in the growing of this 
most useful and healthful little fruit, called the ' Improved 
Alpine Strawberry ' : ' To obtain these large and abundant, 
it is necessary to grow them on young plants (certainly 
not more than three years old) and plants originally 
grown from seed. The fruit degenerates rapidly, if grown 
on runners from an old plant. Select the best seed. I 



JULY 38s 

grew mine from Vilmorin's No. 17,239 — fraisier des 
quatres saisons " Berger " — 0.60 centimes per packet. This 
is cheaper than yourself selecting, maturing, and preparing 
the seeds, which probably would mature less thoroughly 
here than under the hot summer sun in Prance. Sow in 
March in a shallow box or pan under glass, well watered, 
in soil as follows : one half of thoroughly well-rotted leaf- 
mould, one quarter of sand, one quarter of light loam. 
Cover with a glass, as usual, until they begin to grow. 
Very moderate heat. Prepare in a well-sheltered border 
exposed to the sun a strip of soil two and a half feet wide. 
Mix in plenty of well-rotted manure from an old hot-bed 
with the light loam of the open border. Plant the young 
seedlings in a row down the middle of this strip about 
five inches apart. "Water them well, and shade them for 
a few days till their roots have taken good hold of the 
ground. Then they will grow rapidly and produce large 
leaves and strong runners, which must be laid out across 
the piece of ground on either side of the plants. Any 
runners beyond this first break should be cut off. The 
runners and the plant are left to grow together till about 
September, when the off-sets will have rooted and grown, 
and the strip of soil will be covered with rich leaves and 
strong, healthy, young plants. In winter, or early next 
March, prepare the bed in which they are intended to 
fruit : light loam with fair quantity of old leaf -mould or 
rotted old hot-bed manure. There should not be more 
than four rows in one bed without a small path, in order 
to facilitate the cropping and the cutting-off of runners 
later on. The rows should be fifteen to eighteen inches 
apart, and in these rows plant, in March, the rooted 
runners of the seedlings, with as good balls as you can 
get. They will begin to bear about July, and will go on 
bearing until the frost comes in October or November, if 
they have been kept well watered in hot weather, and the 

c c 



386 MORE POT-POURRI 

runners trimmed off. In November cut off any remain- 
ing runners, mulch them well, and they will stand all 
through the winter. The second year they will bear, 
from May to November, good large fruit about an inch 
long and half an inch across. They should be gathered 
with clean hands and allowed to drop off their stalks into 
the basket. If they do not drop to-day, they will next day 
or the day after, as they should be quite ripe. They will 
stand plenty of sunshine if they are watered in propor- 
tion to the heat of the weather. The fruit-bearing stems, 
in the best kinds, are strong and stand up above the 
leaves, so that the bloom coming on may be in full 
light and warmth. The leaves should never flag. Treat 
the bed the same way in the next winter, mulching, etc. 
This is the result : first year, sowing and producing the 
plants ; second year, a good haK-crop, July to November ; 
third year, a spring crop and autumn crop. The fourth 
year the autumn crop will not be so large ; but if they are 
sown every year, as they should be, a subsequent sowing 
will be bearing its first autumn crop. It is possible to 
try a late summer sowing to crop the following autumn ; 
the runners must be taken off in the same way. Although 
the plants bear any amount of frost, a short light frost 
during blooming-time will turn the yellow centres of the 
flowers black, which means no fruit there. It is well, 
therefore, to be able to protect the beds by tiffany or 
bracken fixed between two laths. It is well, also, to have 
some natural shelter against the north and north-east 
winds.' This last sentence is a most useful hint for any 
Strawberries, and I shall certainly adopt it, as my first 
crop is constantly destroyed by these spring frosts. 

While in Germany I saw beautiful beds of these 
Alpine Strawberries bearing profusely. The gardener 
told me that the way he managed them was to strike the 
runners off the young plants early in August and plant 



JULY 387 

them far the winter under a wall, water well till rooted, 
mulch for the winter, and leave in the same place till 
April. Prepare a bed then in full sunshine with plenty 
of good cow-manure. Take up the young plants from 
under the wall; plant them in the bed a foot "apart, 
alternating the next row; mulch again, and water copiously 
while the plants are flowering. Pick off all runners 
except those required for propagation. 

The only real difference between this and the former 
receipt is that the first one prescribes the constant sow- 
ing and taking runners from the young plants, whereas 
the German gardener, apparently, took his runners from 
older plants. This difference would be quite accounted 
for by the difference between a soil naturally suited to 
Strawberries and one that is not. 

Last year I heard of an American way of growing 
Strawberries, a man in New York having made a large 
fortune by inventing the following method : A petroleum 
barrel is made clean by burning it out. Holes, about 
two inches wide, are drilled info it in alternate rows from 
base to top at intervals erf about six inches in all directions. 
The barrel is then raised on bricks or stones, ample holes 
having been bored in the bottom of the cask for drainage. 
The bottom is filled with crocks and broken pots, and 
then a layer up to the height of the first holes is filled in 
with good mould. The Strawberry runners, well rooted, 
are planted by drawing the crown of the plant through the 
hole and spreading out the roots. Then fill up with soil 
tLU you reach the next layer, and so on up to the top. 
The top is not filled to the very rim, so as to admit of 
rain soaking down, and to hold the watering and liquid- 
manure soaking which it requires in the spring. A small 
drain-pipe should be let in down the middle of the barrel 
to ensura the water and liquid manure reaching the 
lower plants in sufficient quantity. I am bound to own 

cc2 



388 MORE POT-POURRI 

that my gardener says the cask did not ripen well last 
year ; but I was not here, so I cannot say what was the 
reason. I suspect it was that the moisture did not 
penetrate sufficiently into the barrel. I have planted 
two more tubs this autumn in the same way with 
'Viscountess' and 'Eoyal Sovereign,' and shall await 
results. It is just possible there is not sun enough in 
this country to ripen them grown in this way, though 
I do not believe it. The advantages, if successful, would 
be great economy of ground, the fact that you can water 
without fear of drawing up the roots, that no straw or 
cocoanut fibre is required to keep the fruit clean ; and I 
imagine, grown in that way, the birds would not touch 
the fruit. 

I saw two pretty decorations for a luncheon-table in 
Germany. One was : four baskets painted white with 
high handles and sprays of any small mixed flowers 
that do not fade quickly tied to the handles, the baskets 
well piled up with common summer fruit — Strawberries, 
Currants, Easpberries, Cherries, Gooseberries — each in a 
separate basket, and a small vase with the same mixed 
flowers in the centre. 

The other — a pretty, daylight table decoration — was a 
vase in the middle, filled with blue Cornflowers (which of 
course grow wild in Germany), standing out on a ground- 
work of Maidenhair. There were small vases round with 
wild yellow three-fingered Trefoil, or any other yellow 
wild flower such as Buttercups. Between the dishes of 
fruit were laid on the table sprays of Maidenhair, Corn- 
flower, and yellow flowers together. 

Eeceipts 

Timbale Napolitaine.— To be served either in a 
silver casserole or in an open French high pie-crust, 



JULY 389 

shaped like a flower-pot, and filled while baking with dry 
peas to keep it in shape. Boil a small quantity of medium- 
sized macaroni ; drain it well. Take two sweetbreads, 
scald and trim well, parboil, and cut into regular pieces 
about half an inch square. Make a good brown sauce 
(not too dark), to which add two or three spoonfuls of 
concentrated tomato jpwr^e, some good fresh mushrooms 
cut in dice or strips, some truffles or morels, and tiny 
little quenelles of chicken breast (if you have any cold 
chicken to use up). Put the sweetbreads into this thick 
sauce. Mix all well together, let it stew gently for a few 
minutes, then finish your macaroni in the usual way 
with cheese, only using far less butter than for plain 
macaroni. Now fill the silver casserole or the pie-crust 
by putting alternate layers of macaroni and of the stew. 
Finish at the top with a little layer of sauce and truffles, 
and serve very hot. 

The remains of this Timbale, if the sauce has been 
kept thick and concentrated enough from the first, can be 
made into excellent croquettes or rissoles by being cut up 
quite small, with hardly any of the sauce mixed with 
it. Shape as croquettes, roll in egg and breadcrumbs 
and fry. 

Poulet a rindienne.— Boil a large fowl in thin 
chicken or veal stock with two or three onions. When 
done, take these out, strain the stock (which ought to look 
quite pale and clear), cut the fowl in pieces, cover with 
leaves of tarragon, add one or two to the stock, pour over 
the fowl hot, and serve. Boil a large cupful of Patna or 
Italian rice, strain, and dry. Make apart, while the fowl 
is cooking, a curry sauce with onion, butter, apple, stock, 
and curry powder (as described in my former book), no 
flour. When the rice is ready to serve, stir enough of 
this sauce into it to colour it thoroughly without making 
it sloppy or greasy. I saw this once at a French luncheon 



390 MORE POT-POURRI 

party, and it was called Poulet d I'Indienne, though of 
course it is not Indian in our sense at all. I have 
often done it successfully, but never had a receipt 
for it. 

Croutes of Ham and Beans. — Take four ounces of 

lean ham and grate or chop very fine. Put it into a stew- 
pan with a httle cayenne pepper and a spoonful of sherry ; 
then dish it upon small fried croHtes of bread. Dish 
round these a purie of broad beans or white haricot 
beans. Serve hot. 

Lentils. — Put a breakfastcup of Egyptian lentils 
into a saucepan, cover with about an inch and a half 
of water, boil very slowly for an hour. Heat half a 
tumbler of the best ohve oil in a small saucepan. 
Cut up very small half an onion, and fry it till yellow 
in the oil. Pour the whole on to the lentils, and let 
them boil another half-hour. "Wash and pick a good 
handful of ItaUan rice. Dry on a cloth, and mix with 
the lentils when the rice is cooked. Add a little salt 
and pepper, and serve. 

IVench beans or scarlet runners well boiled in salt 
and water, slightly drained, and then mixed at once (aU 
hot) with oUve oil and very little vinegar, and eaten as a 
salad, are much better than when allowed to get quite 
cold. I thinlc this is the same with aU cold vegetables — 
beetroot, asparagus, beans, etc. Our weather so seldom 
admits of quite cold things being palatable. These 
receipts, however, are useless unless the olive oil is of the 
best. I always buy my oil and vinegar from Mrs. Eoss, 
Poggio Gherardo, Via Settignanese, Morence. 

A Chocolate Pudding.— Take five ounces of fresh 
butter ; four ounces of chocolate, grated ; four ounces of 
pounded sugar; one ounce of flour. Mix these in a 
small pan with a cup and a half of miUc. Boil till quite 
thick, and then pour into a dish with five yolks of eggs 



JULY 391 

and some scraped peel of a lemon. Stir for half an hour. 
Beat up well the whites of the five eggs, and add them 
slowly to the rest. Smear with butter a conical tin 
mould, sprinkle with cinnamon ; pour in the mixture. 
Boil it for two hours in water. A cream sauce flavoured 
with vanilla should be served with it or poured round it. 
Norwegian Fruit Jelly.— Take two pounds of red 
currants and two pounds of raspberries (raw) rubbed 
through a cloth to extract the juice. Measure the juice in 
a good clean wine-bottle and pour it out. Put in the rest 
of the juice, and fill up the bottle with cold water so as to 
make two wine-bottles of liquid in all. Put this liquid in 
a large brass saucepan, and add half a stick of vanilla 
and three-quarters of a pound of lump sugar. Put the 
saucepan on the fire. Mix five ounces of the best cornflour 
and two ounces of Groult's French starch flour {farine 
d'amidon) with half a bottle of cold water. When quite 
smooth, pour it gradually, stirring all the time, into the 
boiling fruit juice. Let the whole boil until it thickens. 
Einse out a china mould or basin with cold water, pour 
in the mixture, and put it for some hours in a cool place 
or on the ice. Turn it out and serve with cream. 

Clierries and Semolina.— Boil four pounds of good 
cherries in a quart of water till quite soft, then pass 
through a hair sieve. Put the juice back on the fire with 
a piece of vanilla and half a pound of lump sugar. Let 
it boil for twenty minutes. Take a packet of Erench 
semolina ; drop in a su£B.cient quantity to thicken the 
juice, stirring all the time; when this has boiled up, 
proceed as in the former receipt. Ehubarb might be tried 
in this way. 

Much the same sweet can be made in winter in the 
following way : A pint and a half of red wine, and a pint 
and a half of bottled fruit syrup. These must be mixed 
together and brought to the boil. Mix four spoonfuls of 



392 MORE POT-POURRI 

cornflour with a little cold syrup kept back for the 
purpose, and stir this into the boiling liquid. It is most 
important to keep stirring all the time. It must be 
boiled for fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Currants — ^red, white, and black — are excellent left on 
their stalks, well washed, and then dipped into the white 
of a very fresh raw egg, rolled in finely pounded sugar, 
and put for one minute into the oven to dry. 



393 



AUGUST 

A Horticultural Show in August — The old Chelsea Physic Garden — 
Towns out of season — Flat-hunting in London — Overcrowding 
flats— Marble better than tiles— Curtains and blinds — A long 
note on girls and young women, 

August 9th. — For the first time in my life I went to a 
Horticultural Society Show at the Drill Hall, Westminster, 
in August. The interest centred chiefly in the new hardy 
Water Lilies which everyone with small ponds or lakes 
ought to try and cultivate, I think. There were a few 
new Lilies that I had never seen before ; but what 
particularly attracted my attention was an exceedingly 
good strain of my favourite Campanula pyramidalis, 
exhibited by the Syon House gardener, and flowered 
under glass. He afterwards gave me an interesting 
account of how he cultivates them, which I quote : 

" I am glad you liked the Campanulas, but I am sorry 
they were not quite as good as some I have shown in 
previous years, as we forced some of the plants, and they 
do not like much heat. There is no special way of 
cultivating the plants. Those you saw were sown early 
in April '97 in pans in a cold frame, and pricked off end 
of May into boxes, potted up six weeks later into forty- 
eight pots, singly. Up to this they had been grown in a 
cold frame, but from July till October they were stood 
outside on ashes, but well watered. In winter we place 
rough boards round these, or stand in cold frames. Too 
much moisture is worse than frost, and very little water 



394 MORE POT-POURRI 

is given in mid-winter. Early in March we place them 
in seven- or eight-inch pots, and stand in the open or on 
ashes to keep out the worms, potting in a good soil with 
a little manure, but as firm as possible, and they then 
flower the end of July or early in August. 

'The flowers are purer in colour if they are placed 
under glass when opening. We do not grow any plants 
over sixteen or seventeen months. I would advise sow- 
ing in March for flowering in following August twelve- 
month. Ours is a very fine strain — the Syon House 
variety — and a compact grower. I do not plant out at 
all for conservatory decoration. By planting out and 
lifting in spring you would get larger plants.' 

I am quite sure these flowers can never be seen in any- 
thing like perfection except grown under glass when the 
flower is appearing. 

Not the least interesting sight was the variety in 
shades of blue — some very soft and deUcate-looking, 
almost gray ; some a good china-blue. There were many 
more of the white ones, and I find them rather easier to 
grow. 

Another way of growing the G. pyramidalis, especially 
any good colour you want to preserve, is to cut up the 
roots and re-pot small pieces. I do not think the plants 
will be as strong as those grown from seed, but it is less 
trouble. 

I was pleased the other day to read in the papers that 
the old Chelsea Physic Garden has been saved from being 
built over by the London Parochial Charities. The 
garden was presented by Sir Hans Sloane to the Society 
of Apothecaries, on condition that fifty new varieties of 
plants should be grown in it and annually furnished to 
the Eoyal Society till the number amounted to two 
thousand. These gardens and the Botanic Gardens at 
Oxford are the oldest of the kind in England. The land 



AUGUST 395 

at Chelsea was acquired by the Apothecaries as far back 
as 1674. Evelyn visited the Chelsea Gardens in 1685, 
and mentions that he saw there a Tulip-tree and a Tea 
shrub. Here too, it has been said, one of the first 
attempts was made to supply plants with artificial heat, 
the greenhouse having been heated by means of embers 
placed in a hole in the ground. Poor plants ! they must 
have been rather smoke-dried, I fear. It was here, too, 
that Philip Miller, the ' prince of gardeners ' — so styled 
by Linnaeus — spent nearly fifty years. He managed the 
gardens from 1722 to 1771, during which period they 
attained a great reputation throughout Europe. Miller was 
the author of the much-admired ' Gardener's Chronicle.' 

August lith. — Towns are never so pleasant as when 
out of season. Florence in June, and London in August, 
how immensely emptiness increases their charm ! 

Elat-hunting in London is more bewildering and 
difficult even than house-hunting, so I was indeed lucky 
to find one with perfect views, very high up, vdth a lift, 
and just what I wanted in every way. I always have 
thought the garret was the nicest part of a London 
house. It has the best air and generally some sort 
of view. A high flat has all these advantages, and the 
lift does away with the fatigue of the stairs. A Ereneh 
landlady once said, when we had panted up her five 
storeys to her airy apartment and complained a httle of 
the pull up : ' Le cinquifeme n'est au cinquifeme que pour 
les monstres de la rue. C'est au premier pour les Anges t ' 
One does feel nearer the sky, and the gulls fly. by the 
windows in stormy weather. The cloud-effects can be 
endlessly studied, and often smoke rather adds to than 
detracts from the beauty of sunsets, as Mr. Euskin puts 
it in that beautiful chapter on the truth of colour in 
the first volume of ' Modern Painters ' : ' When Nature 
herself takes a colouring fit, and does something extra- 



396 MORE POT-POURRI 

ordinary — something really to exhibit her power — she has 
a thousand ways and means of rising above herself, but 
incomparably the noblest manifestations of her capability 
of colour are in these sunsets among the high clouds. I 
speak especially of the moments before the sun sinks, 
when his light turns pure rose-colour, and when this light 
falls upon a zenith covered with countless cloud-forms of 
inconceivable delicacy, threads and flakes of vapour which 
would in common daylight be pure snow-white, and which 
give therefore fair field to the tone of light. There is then 
no limit to the multitade, and no check to the intensity of 
the hues assumed. The whole sky from the zenith to the 
horizon becomes one molten, mantling sea of colour and 
fire ; every black bar turns into massy gold, every ripple 
and wave into unsullied, shadowless crimson and purple 
and scarlet, and colours for which there are no words in 
language and no ideas in the mind — things which can only 
be conceived while they are visible — the intense hollow 
blue of upper sky melting through it all, showing here 
deep and pure and lightless; there modulated by the 
filmy, formless body of the transparent vapour, till it is 
lost imperceptibly in its crimson and gold.' All this, and 
indeed much more, can be seen now and again from the 
top of a high London house by those who have eyes to 
see and a heart to appreciate. There are other effects — 
white clouds sailing on pure blue, storm-clouds rising and 
dispersing, and (in autumn) the sun lying like a little gold 
ball on the mist, the lights glimmering through the fog in 
the streets below, which are in darkness, whilst we dress 
and breakfast without ever having to touch the switch 
which produces the magic light. One more evening 
picture is the new moon shining in at the windows, high 
up and above a long, graduated space of evening sky and 
a far mysterious purple vista, half town-lights, coming 
through the darkness as in one of Whistler's harmonies, 



AUGUST 397 

painted as he alone can paint such effects. The distance is 
cut off by the black roofs and gables of the houses opposite. 

Hitherto I have always moved from smaller houses to 
larger, which is comparatively easy. Changing from a 
large house to a small flat is the most difficult thing I 
have yet had to do. All the flats I have ever seen are, to 
my mind, spoilt by being so much overcrowded, and yet 
in many cases it is for the preservation of property that 
the flat or smaller house is taken at all. To help 
the non-crowding of these small rooms I got rid of as 
many superfluities as possible. I reduced the bulkiness 
and heaviness of curtains, and, where I could, made 
a broad hearth with no fenders at all. I think tiles and 
painted wood for fireplaces have been overdone of late. 
I hope we shall return to more marble and stone. A 
green Irish Connemara marble makes a beautiful hearth, 
and this and other marbles could be adapted in many 
ways where tiles have been used. 

I find that many people have been puzzled by my 
advice to have inner curtains and no bhnds. When they 
are there, of course it is cheaper to keep the blinds. One 
friend wrote that she could not make up her mind to have no 
blinds, as she thought the Uttle curtains attached to the 
sash looked so untidy when pulled aside, like a petticoat 
hung up. I do not think this at all, and have lately found 
two stuffs which are most useful for curtains in the place 
of blinds. One is green bunting, which does not fade, 
and is very cheap, but narrow. It can be got in several 
colours from Cayler & Pope, 113 High Street, Marylebone, 
and I dare say at many other places. It is very pretty in 
white. The green looks well from the outside of the 
house, as does the red twill I recommended before. White 
cotton-twill sheeting also makes very pretty inner curtains. 
They are specially pretty with outer curtains of white 
muslin. This in a small room makes a very pretty effect, 



398 MORE POT-POURRI 

and there is nothing to fade or to detract from the beauty 
of plants, etc., inside the room. My friend who was 
afraid to use the small curtains said the only use of blinds 
is in case of death. It is for that very reason I should 
like blinds done away with. Drawing down blinds in 
eases of death seems such a fooUsh fashion, when in time 
of sorrow one wants the help of all the sunshine that can 
be had. I must own sash windows are difficult to 
manage with curtains. I myself do not like them cut in 
two ; but even then they are not so ugly as smart blinds 
edged with embroidery or lace. 

Many ask if white paint, especially on staircases, does 
not prove unserviceable. I think white paint knocks off 
less than any other, and there is no wear and tear on a 
staircase except on the carpet in the middle. It is very 
desirable to have a piece over at both ends of the stair- 
carpet, so that when it gets worn it can be shifted either 
up or down. This is a touch of economy beginning with 
expense, as it requires a little more carpet. I have never 
heard it suggested by the shopman who sells or lays the 
carpet. To return to paint, it is essential that white 
paint should be good, which depends entirely on using 
the very best white lead. This is perfectly well known in 
the trade, but it naturally costs more than the inferior 
quaUties, and so is seldom used. I never use varnish 
except in London, as even the best varnish always turns 
the paint yellow after a little time. I am obliged to own 
that, though very cheap in the first instance, my favourite 
white-washed walls do seem extravagant, as they are not 
pretty unless constantly renewed and kept spotlessly 
white, and that is what the holder of the purse-strings 
will rarely agree to. White-washed walls soiled by smoke 
look very unsatisfactory. A paper will look cleaner after 
sixteen or seventeen years of wear than wliite-wash does 
after two or three. 



AUGUST 399 

August 29th. — Several of my young friends complained 
that the chapter headed ' Daughters ' in my first book, 
though it sympathised with the woes of childhood, was 
addressed rather to mothers than to daughters. They 
say : ' We want a chapter about ourselves, on our own 
difficulties and trials, on love and marriage, and the 
proper conduct of Ufe between seventeen and twenty-five.' 
So now, partly from memory of my own experience (for 
I was a girl once), and partly from observing others, I am 
going to talk on these subjects as well as I can, only 
referring as before to the weU-to-do classes, the only ones 
about which I know anything. Where I find that my 
own thoughts have been expressed by others, I shall 
dehberately quote ; and as these quotations will be from 
the writings of both men and women, some mothers may 
not think them suitable for the reading of very young 
people. 

So far as I have been able to judge, the first difficulty 
which most commonly presents itself to a grown-up 
girl is her position with regard to her mother, no matter 
how excellent that mother may be, and even when the 
girl remembers the devotion she bore to her up to the 
age of (say) fifteen or sixteen. When a girl is about this 
age a barrier seems often to arise between them, usually 
caused by some want of confidence on the girl's part. 
The difficulty, however, is only aggravated if the mother 
resents or is hurt by this reticence. George Eliot refers 
to this subject with Titanesque touches. She says : ' We 
are bound to reticence most of all by that reverence for 
the highest efforts of our common nature which commands 
us to bury its lowest fatalities, its invincible remnant of 
the brute, its most agonising struggles with temptation, 
in unbroken silence." But, on the other hand, the same 
author thus describes the downward career of one of her 
best-drawn characters : ' Tito had an innate love of 



400 MORE POT-POURRI 

reticence — let us say, a talent for it — whicli acted as other 
impulses do, without any conscious motive, and, like all 
people to whom concealment is easy, he would now and 
then conceal something which had as little the nature 
of a secret as the fact that he had seen a flight of crows.' 
Some natures are born so secretive and shy that it is a 
real difficulty to them to speak out or ask advice, so that 
they cannot learn in any way except from that exceedingly 
bitter source — personal experience. I would advise the 
young to fight as much as they can against concealment. 
There is of course one subject which by its very nature 
can only live in privacy. We all go through the stage 
sooner or later of understanding what love means, and 
we all think at the time there is only one thing in the 
world of importance — that our hearts should not be 
unveiled. But with genuine and open natures this 
passes, and they end very often by open confession later 
on of that which torture would not have drawn from 
them at the time. Why reticence, to my mind, is so bad 
is that it so quickly grows into deception, and the smallest 
events develop into something quite dififerent from what 
they really were. 

Yet no one can recognise more than I do the necessity 
of some kinds of hypocrisy ; it is ' the respect that Vice 
pays to Virtue,' and a form both of truth and strength. 
' The Englishman kisses and does not tell, the Frenchman 
kisses and tells, and the Italian tells and does not kiss ! ' — 
so went the old saying. Admitting the facts, the con- 
cealment of the Englishman is the best. When one is 
young, one thinks just the contrary, and people are very 
apt to say : ' If I have a passion, why should I hide it 
under a bushel ? So long as there is no concealment there 
is no harm.' This kind of argument may take people 
into very deep water. A parent of reserved nature rather 
encourages concealment in the children, and indeed thinks 



AUGUST 401 

it ' beautiful,' forgetting that the children may inherit from 
the other side of the family a need for sympathy and the 
expression of affection, and that these are as absolutely 
necessary to some natures as food for the body. In my 
experience I can most honestly say that the people who 
have done best in life are those whose temperament has en- 
abled them to talk out their difficulties with friends or rela- 
tives, and who have learned to ask advice. Advice should be 
taken to develop one's own judgment — and, as I said before, 
need never be followed. It is useful to understand how 
matters strike other people who are not personally con- 
cerned. The non-understanding of this is often the cause 
of a bad influence being exercised by one sex over the 
other. It is more easy to pardon faults than to forgive 
those who assume virtues they do not possess. 

The mere forming of one's trouble into words makes it 
seem lighter to bear. We have all sometimes, if not often, 
known the extreme worry experienced on waking because 
of some trivial thing we have done or left undone, which 
disappears entirely or assumes its proper proportions after 
our morning bath. Talking out to a friend often plays 
the part of the bath. 

I can trace a change in my whole life from the 
kindness of a Jewish old maid to me when I was a 
precocious little monster of ten years old. We were at 
Leghorn during a fearful earthquake, and the hotel where 
we were staying, though not actually thrown down, was 
so shaken and injured as to be considered unsafe to Uve 
in. This good lady took us all in, and was kindness itself 
to us. My heart went out to her with a genuine out- 
pouring of love and gratitude, and when we left, having 
observed my many little childish selfishnesses, she wrote 
me the following letter : 

' My dearest Thbbesa, — As I feel quite certain 

D D 



402 MORE POT-POURRI 

you really love me, you will listen with attention to 
the few remarks I have to make, and at the same 
time convince me of your affection by reading occasion- 
ally these lines in remembrance of me. Now, dearest, 
I must tell you that patience is one of the greatest 
requisites, not only for our own happiness, but for 
everyone about us. Be careful to keep that in mind. 
At meals (be you ever so hungry) do not show impatience ; 
look round and observe whether those dearer than your- 
self have all they require, before you think of yourself. 
This will prevent your being selfish, which is of all things 
the most odious. Think first of your dearest mother, for 
rarely in health and never in suffering does she give one 
thought on herself. Therefore you, my darling, have but 
to follow her bright example, and you will be an ornament 
to society, a pattern of good-breeding, and an example to 
your infant sisters, who wiU look up to and Hsten to your 
affectionate advice. Eemember that love towards all who 
instruct you is absolutely necessary, and patience and 
good-feeling for the servants vsdll make them both love 
and respect you. This is my affectionate advice to you, 
my dearest Theresa ; and whenever you feel inclined to 
be impatient or selfish you will read this and remember 
me.' 

To my mind this letter is an absolute gem as regards the 
understanding of child-nature. There is no mention of 
anything that could possibly make the little being of ten 
feel her youth or the writer's age. There is no word of 
religion. Love terrestrial is the moving power through- 
out. The motive for life suggested in it is not exactly 
happiness, which none can command, but the regulating 
of one's life, with ambition as an object. The incor- 
poration of Eastern ideas into the West is responsible for 
much of that spirit which attributes all evils to the will of 



AUGUST 403 

God, as trials to be accepted with resignation rather' 
than difficulties to be fought against and overcome, and 
if possible provided against beforehand. ' Sufficient unto 
the day is the evil thereof ' is a saying that has, I think, 
been twisted into many senses never intended. 

Advice, however, may be offered too young and bear 
no fruit. I once heard a kind grandmother preaching un- 
selfishness to a little boy of four or five : ' No one loves 
selfish people ; you won't be happy if you are selfish.' 
And he, the rosy-faced little rascal, looked up and said 
earnestly : ' Oh ! • but, gran, that is not quite true ; for I 
am so selfish and so happy ! ' 

Many mothers prefer to remain in ignorance rather 
than find out that the tastes and views of their daughters 
are different from their own. If, as is sometimes thought^ 
this difference is greater now than it used to be, I cling 
to my opinion that it is largely due to sending girls 
away from home for educational purposes. Freedom 
and a good education have many advantages, but the 
corresponding disadvantages should be faced when the 
plan is originally decided upon. 

Some years ago there came out a book, ' Le Journal 
de Marie Bashkirtseff,' which made a considerable sensa- 
tion at the time, and raised — so far as I could judge — a 
good deal of anger and irritation amongst English mothers 
of the day. It was accused of being strained, exaggerated, 
and morbid ; and so perhaps it is. One accusation, I 
believe, was true — that the heroine made herself two years 
younger than she really was, i.e. she begins the journal 
nominally at the age of twelve, whereas she was really 
fourteen. In spite of its faults I beheve this book will 
remain for all time a most useful introduction to the 
knowledge of that strange being — a young girl, say, from 
sixteen to twenty-one. Its exaggeration is that of a 
microscope, which reveals Nature without distorting it. 

dd2 



404 MORE POT-POURRI 

This constitutes its utility for all mothers who have girls 
growing up around them. 

A girl should bear in mind that it is quite possible she 
is a cause of considerable disappointment to her mother, 
and this possibility should be thought of humbly and 
affectionately rather than with resentment. For though, 
perhaps, it is due to no fault of her own, the disappoint- 
ment is none the less real to her mother. She should do 
her utmost to make herself as pleasant in her home as 
she can. What elders expect from the young is a fair 
amount of willingly given assistance and unselfish 
cheerfulness. Pew things, I think, contribute more to 
happiness in the home than a certain power of conversa- 
tion; and, if it does not come naturally to them, girls 
would do well to try and acquire it. Any moderately 
intelligent woman can learn ' to talk ' ; and to be absolutely 
silent in society is, not modesty, but a form of selfishness, 
for it casts a gloom over everyone present. The true 
greatness of individuals lies in their own hearts, and con- 
versation is as much a question of kindness as of cleverness. 
Mr. George Meredith, in ' Beauchamp's Career,' describes 
delightfully the charm of conversation in a girl. Of course 
all cannot have this, but all can try for it : ' Een^e's gift 
of speech counted unnumbered strings, which she played on 
with a grace that clothed the skill and was her natural en- 
dowment — an art perfected by the education of the world. 
Who cannot talk ! But who can ? Discover the writers 
in a day when all are writing. It is as rare an art as 
poetry, and in the mouths of women as enrapturing — 
richer than their voices in music' With young girls 
silence often becomes a habit from not being trained to 
join in the conversation of their elders — a fault in many 
English homes. But if a girl realises this is a mistake, 
she can get over it after she is grown up if she chooses. 
If, on the contrary, she is silent merely from being 



AUGUST 405 

socially bored, she had better learn that a very simple 
remedy for boredom in society is to try and amuse others. 
There is sm-e to be someone uglier or duller or older than 
she is, to whom she can devote herself. One of the chief 
uses of society is the constant self-disciphne it imposes. 
Depend upon it, as George Eliot says, we should all gain 
unspeakably if we could learn to see some of the poetry 
and pathos, the tragedy and the comedy, lying in the 
experience of a human soul that looks out through dull 
gray eyes and that speaks in a voice of quite ordinary 
tones. Such a thing is almost impossible to some girls, 
whose great amusement in life is to chatter. This has 
its charm to many ; but girls of this temperament should, 
on the contrary, try to cultivate the art of listening, to draw 
forth information from others, and to understand their atti- 
tude without forming too hasty judgments. ' To communi- 
cate our feelings and sentiments is natural. To take up 
whatis communicated just as it is communicated is culture.' 
A power to sympathise with others is one to be much 
cultivated, ever remembering it has to be paid for. 

For he who lives more lives than one, 
More deaths than one must die. 

Happiness and cheerfulness were not at all cultivated 
by serious-minded good people in my youth, who were 
much affected by the teaching, even if not under the 
influence, of the Quakers and Wesley. To be sad was 
almost considered a virtue. The High Church movement 
began the change, as I remember it, against the gloom of 
the Low Church teaching. The practical sense of the 
present day is now fighting the morbid tendencies, which 
have taken a hold on so many, reflected from the writings 
of Ibsen and Maeterlinck. Those not naturally of a happy 
temperament should cultivate happiness from within, not 
9,rtificially assume it, 

A lecture on ' Happiness,' given by Miss Lucy Soulsby 



4o6 MORE POT-POURRI 

in 1898 (published by Longmans, Green & Co.), is an ex- 
cellent example of the teaching to which I refer, and 
would, I think, be helpful to many a girl. 

A very common grievance to-day between mothers 
and daughters is that the girls while still young refuse to 
go out into society at all, feeling how tiresome and 
unprofitable it is. This is all very well if the girl has 
mapped out her fate, and knows exactly what sort of a life 
she is going to lead ; but if she is merely drifting, it is only 
a form of selfishness, and rather a foolish one. UntU 
life is really settled, the more varied and open to change 
it can be kept the better. After marriage I am sure the 
more people stay at home the better for ten or fifteen years. 

The state I have referred to of more or less antagonism 
between mother and daughter ought not to cause the 
amount of distress that it often does. Time, the great 
healer, constantly rights things again, and as a rule a 
girl never turns with more true love to her mother than 
just after her marriage. But my advice to girls under 
these circumstances is to be conciliatory and hide from 
others the irritation which often they cannot help feeling. 
This I should recommend, even if from no higher motive 
than that the casual observer should not judge them too 
harshly. It is a rooted idea in the minds of many men 
that a bad daughter makes a bad wife. Was not lago's 
strongest argument in the poisoning of Othello's mind 
against poor Desdemona 'She did deceive her father 
marrying you ' ? Not long ago I heard a young man 
say : ' I mean to marry for a mother-in-law — that is 
to say, I will never marry a girl who does not love her 
mother, nor would I marry a girl with a mother whom I 
thought unworthy of her love.' 

The French, of course, exact an outward expression 
of devotion from both sons and daughters unknown in 
this country, and I doubt whether our literature could 



AUGUST 407 

produce a parallel passage to these opening lines of 
Morian's poem of ' Euth ' : 

Le plus saint des devoirs, eelui qu'en trait de flamme 
La nature a grav6 dans le fond de notre tme, 
C'est de ch&ir I'objet qui nous donna le jour. 
Qu'il est doux k remplir ce prgcepte d'amour ! 
Voyez 06 faible enfant que le trSpas menace ; 
II ne sent plus ses maux qUand sa m^re I'embrasse. 
Dans V&ge des erreurs ce jeune homme fougueux 
N'a qu'elle pour ami dis qu'il est malheureux ; 
Ce vieillard qui va perdre uu resto de lumito 
Betrouye encore des pleurs en parlant de sa m^re. 

Last summer, while waiting at a hot railway station 
and pondering in my mind how I could bring together a 
few notes that might help to solve some of the difficulties 
in girls' lives, I caught sight of a little yellow publication 
on the bookstall, called ' The Modern Marriage Market.' 
It will be remembered that this consisted of four articles, 
by ladies, reprinted from magazines. I bought it at once, 
thinking that these ladies would probably say what I 
wanted to say better than I could do it. It was interest- 
ing to find that they severally took what, roughly speaking, 
might be called the four sides of the question, though the 
last article held the philosophic view that, as with most 
affairs of life, there is much to be said on all sides. Miss 
Marie Corelli holds up the little blind god Love as the 
only one worthy to regulate our lives and destinies. 
Lady Jeune is surprisingly satisfied with things as they 
are. Mrs. Steel prefers even Eastern to Western customs 
rather than ignore the importance of the future generation. 
Lady Malmesbury takes, as I have already said, a broader 
and more moderate view as regards the pros and cons of 
the various points at issue. Most people would agree 
that the matter is one on which it is almost impossible 
to generahse, as so much depends on the enlightened 
bringing-up of the girl herself. The whole question has 



4o8 MORE POT-POURRI 

been treated with stronger and more philosophic con- 
sideration in an essay called ' Marriage,' which I 
mentioned before, in Sir Henry Taylor's ' Notes from Life.' 
His essay has the additional advantage of being addressed 
to both men and women, which is certainly to be desired. 
He begins with a quotation from Webster's play, in 
which the Duchess of Malfy asks : ' What do you think of 
marriage ? ' and Antonio answers : 

' I take it as ttose that deny purgatory ; 
It locally contains or heaven or hell ; 
There is no third place in it.' 

Sir Henry Taylor goes on to say that when he was 
young he did not agree with this, but that increase of 
years made him think Antonio's view the correct one. 
It seems to me that the last fifty years have wrought a 
considerable change in these matters. Nowadays members 
of society, so far as I am acquainted with them, consider 
it very inconsistent with their own dignity to admit that 
marriage has turned out ' hell ' for them, and see that a 
more philosophical attitude of mind enables them to 
expect less and really find a great deal of happiness on 
the lines of the quotation at the conclusion of Lady 
Malmesbury's article : ' Two are better than one ; because 
they have a good reward for their labour. For Lf they 
fall, the one will lift up his fellow ; but woe to him that is 
alone when he faileth, for he hath not another to help him 
up.' In my youth I used to think that the gain in 
marriage was almost entirely on the woman's side ; but as 
I grow older I am incUned to think the advantages and 
the disadvantages to men and women are nearly equal. 

The crux of the whole position as regards the girl seems 
to me to be hinted by Lady Jeune when she implies that the 
mother should take the matter into her own hands — ^if 
not of making, at any rate of unmaking, marriages. And 



AUGUST 409 

from this point of view I think I have something to 
suggest. 

The questions that are constantly put to me on this 
subject by girls more or less young prove to me that a 
great part of the diiBculty arises from the injudicious 
ignorance in which they are allowed to grow up. Let us 
begin at the beginning. A young girl of eighteen or nine- 
teen once said to me : ' What is the harm of kissing ? ' 
And it is not altogether an easy question to answer if the 
girl herself has no feeling about it. ' "When I was twelve 
years old my mother deliberately explained to me that for 
girls to kiss boys and men was childish and infra dig. ; 
that grown-up women thought most gravely of kissing, 
and reserved it for those they loved very much, and who 
had asked them to marry them. This gradually puts the 
matter on a sounder basis. We have to be much older to 
understand that ' kisses are like grains of gold and silver 
found upon the ground, of no value in themselves, but 
shovring that a mine is near.' On the other hand, some 
girls may think in perfect innocence that a kiss means 
a great deal more than it really does, especially as it is 
generally taken, not given ; and I have even heard of a girl 
of seventeen who thought she was so lowered by having 
been kissed by a man that she was bound to marry him 
to save herself from disgrace. So one girl takes it ; an- 
other may think, having once begun, there is no going back, 
and the onward course is the only possible one. To 
another, one accidental kiss may be only a great help and 
protection, teaching her by fear to understand and distrust 
herself. This state of ignorance ought never to be in a girl 
who has reached a marriageable age. If the stopping of 
kissing is desirable at twelve, it is equally important that 
at fifteen or sixteen the mother or an elder sister or some 
kind friend should explain the facts of Nature sufiSciently 
to preyent for ever the possibility of such distorted notions 



410 MORE POT-POURRI 

as to the facts of life. There are hundreds of ways of 
expanding and enlarging a girl's mind so as to increase 
rather than diminish the modesty which is her greatest 
safeguard, and certainly not the least of her attractions. 
Indeed, it is a favourite theory of mine that the instiacts 
of life are apt to grow before their protector — modesty — 
which is more the result of cultivation and civiHsation 
than particularly pertaining to what is natural. All 
prohibitions wound liberty and increase desire. We 
none of us can defend ourselves from a danger as 
to the very existence of which we are ignorant. If a 
girl is trained to understand that we are part of that great 
whole which is called Nature, and that in fact our common 
development is shared by every flower that blooms, she 
is neither surprised nor shocked when further knowledge 
gathers round her as life expands. This, I believe, 
will serve as a very wholesome check against an over- 
preponderance being given to the romantic attitude so much 
advocated by Miss Marie Corelli. She describes marriage 
as the ' exalted passion which fills the souls ' of a man and 
woman, ' and moves them to become one in flesh as well 
as one in spirit.' Mrs. Steel says, and I must say I agree 
vyith her, that this so-called ' exalted passion ' is quite as 
often likely to lead to evil as to good. 

Whether girls reahse it or not, certainly an immense 
number of them associate marriage vrith the very healthy 
desire of having children of their own. With a little 
further cultivation they wiU come to think of the man 
they wish to marry as the father of these unborn cliildren ; 
and most women — even girls — can early discriminate 
between the man they enjoy dancing with and the man 
they would like to be some day head of their house and 
father of their children. This develops what I hold to 
be of such great importance : that the girl herself should 
feel respect, or at any rate approval, of the man she thinks 



AUGUST 4" 

of marrying. There should be many solid reasons for 
entering into so important a partnership beyond the fact 
of love, even if that be ever so real. At the same time I 
do not mean to imply that the man's moral standard in 
the past should necessarily have been the same as the 
woman's. The man who understands women extracts 
far more love from them — and so, in the end, makes them 
happier — than the man who knows little about them. I 
hold it to be a great mistake for a man to have that kind 
of fear of the girl he is engaged to or of his wife which 
leads him to think it is desirable to deceive her. That 
seems the great danger of the tone of the present day, a 
woman expecting too much of men. 

One of the chief difficulties in talking or writing of 
love is that the word may be interpreted in so many ways. 
To generalise on love is almost as difficult as to define it ; 
it means such different things to different people. Girls 
who read novels and poetry are apt to think that the fancy 
they feel for the first man they meet is the great passion 
which they will never get over ; whereas, broadly speak- 
ing, strong feeling most often belongs to inconstant natures. 
As I think of it, real love never exists until it is tried by 
adversity ; but I am the last to deny that the real thing — 
however you define it — gives dignity and nobility to life, 
and makes it worth living. ' C'est Men & I'amour qu'il en 
faut venir k toute 6poque, en toutes circonstances, en tout 
pays, tant. qu'on veut chercher k comprendre pourquoi Ton 
vit sans vouloir le demander k Dieu.' 

Thomas Moore puts it : 

When first the Fount of life was flowing, 

Heavy and dark and cold it ran, 
Every gloomy instant growing 

Bitterer to the lips of Man ; 
Till Love came by one lucky minute. 

Light of heart and fair of brow, 
And flung his sweetening cordia in it, . 

Proudly saying, ' Taste it now.' 



412 MORE POT-POURRI 

Mr. Austin has a pretty definition of love : 

'Tis a fifth season, a sixth sense, a light, 
A warmth beyond the cunning of the sun. 

Another element ; fire, water, air, 
Nor burn, nor quench, nor feed it, for it lives 

Steeped in its self-provided atmosphere. 

Doubt and fear were linked with it in very early days, 
for Plotinus says of love : ' It is worth the labour to con- 
sider well of Love, whether it be a god, or a devil, or a 
passion of the mind, or partly god, partly devil, partly 
passion.' Dr. South puts it : ' Love is the great instrument 
and engine of Nature, the bond and cement of society, the 
spring and spirit of the universe. It is of that active, restless 
nature that it must of necessity exert itseK ; and like the fire, 
to which it is often compared, it is not a free agent to choose 
whether it will heat or no, but it streams forth by natural 
results and unavoidable emanations, so that it will fasten 
upon an inferior, unsuitable object rather than none at all. 
The soul may sooner leave off to subsist than to love; and, 
like the vine, it withers and dies if it has nothing to 
embrace." Here are some Unes by a Frenchwoman who 
feels the sadness of love : — 

Car la douleur, Wlas 1 est I'ombre de I'amonr 
Et le suit, pas k pas, et la nuit et le jour ; 
EUe est m€me k tel point sa compagne fiddle. 
Que I'amour k la fin ne peut vivre sans elle. 
Or s'U en est ainsi, qui pourrait me bMmer 
Qu'ayant peur de souftrir je n'ose pas aimer ? 

This kind of cowardice, however, lasts a very short 
time, and the father's advice to his child in George 
Eliot's poem comes much nearer to what we most of us 
practise : 

' Where blooms, my father, a thornless Eose ? ' 

' That can I not tell thee, my child ; 
Not one on the bosom of earth e'er grows 

But wounds whom its charms have beguiled.' 



AUGUST 413 

' Would I'd a Eose on my bosom to lie I 

But I shrink from the piercing thorn. 
I long, but I dare not, its point defy ; 

I long, and I gaze forlorn.' 

' Not so, my child — round the stem again 

Thy resolute fingers entwine ; 
Forego not the joy for its sister — pain. 
Let the Rose, the sweet Eose, be thine.' 

Here is one more example of the many forms love 
takes — perhaps the noblest and the best : renunciation, no 
matter why or wherefor, but for duty's sake. It is one of 
Mrs. Browning's ' Sonnets from the Portuguese ' : 
Go from me. Yet I feel that I shall stand 
Henceforward in thy shadow. Nevermore, 
Alone upon the threshold of my door 
Of individual life, I shall command 
The uses of my soul, nor lift my hand 
Serenely in the sunshine as before. 
Without the sense of that which I forbore— 
Thy touch upon the palm. The widest land 
Doom takes to part us, leaves thy heart in mine 

With pulses that beat double. What I do 
And what I dream include thee, as the wine 

Must taste of its own grapes. And when I sue 
God for myself. He hears that name of thine 
And sees within my eyes the tears of two. 

Tennyson's two lines everlastingly contain the true 
test: 

Love took up the hai;p of Life, and smote on all the chords with 

might — 
Smote the chord of Self, that — trembling — pass'd in music out 

of sight. 

And now, to wind up the definitions of love, I will 
quote from two clever modern novels. Lucas Malet in 
' The Wages of Sin ' attempts to describe the little god, 
who, we are told, still has something of the sea from 
which his mother, Venus, rose : 

Love is quiet and subtle and fearless ; yet he comes 



414 MORE POT-POURRI 

softly and silently, stealing up without observation ; and at 
first we laugh at his pretty face, which is the face of a 
merry earthly child — but his hands, when we take them, 
grasp Uke hands of iron, and his strength is the strength 
of a giant, and his heart is as the heart of a tyrant. And 
he gives us to drink of a cup in which sweet is mingled 
with bitter ; and the sweet too often is soon forgotten, 
while the taste of the bitter remains. And we hardly 
know whether to bless him or curse him, for he has 
changed all things ; and we cannot tell whether to weep 
for the old world we have lost, or shout for joy at the new 
world we have found. Such is love for the great majority ; 
a matter terrestrial rather than celestial, and of doubtful 
happiness after all.' 

Mr. Mallock in one of his clever novels takes the 
matter further in a way that may console those who 
suffer from what appears such a wasted experience : ' A 
serious passion is a great educator. But its work only 
begins when the pain it causes has left us. Strong 
present feeling narrows our sympathies; strong past 
feeling enlarges them. Thus a woman of the world 
always should have been, but should not be, in love. 
She should always have had a grief ; she should never 
have a grievance.' 

How true it is, even with the commonplace, glorified 
at the moment by their suffering : ' On a tant d'ftme pour 
souffrir et si peu d'esprit pour le dire ' ! 

While on this subject, for the sake of those who have 
not the pleasure of knowing Mr. Wilfred Blunt's poems 
I quote three of his sonnets. Krst, because I think them 
beautiful ; and secondly, because they strike a note, very 
well recognised by those who have a knowledge of human 
nature, of the danger of too great suppression in youth. 
And I hold the sonnets up as a looking-glass to some, and 
those by no means the worst, that they may recognise 



AUGUST 415 

what perhaps will be the trials and temptations of their 
own future. These poems describe very truthfully the 
phases many women go through, in a more or less degree, 
according to their kind — women who, to all appearances, 
are just like everyone else, who lead their quiet dutiful 
lives in all sincerity and honour. During my lifetime 
the fact has been much more recognised that the tempta- 
tions and trials of women are not really so very different 
from those of men, though in our civilised life they come 
to them in a different way and often at a different 
age. This fact was, I believe, well understood in the old 
world, though covered over and distorted during the 
Middle Ages. Here are the sonnets, so rightly called the 
' Three Ages of "Woman ' : 

I. 

Love, in thy youth, a stranger knelt to thee, 

With cheeks all red and golden looks all curled 
And cried, ' Sweet child, if thou wilt worship me. 

Thou shalt possess the kingdoms of the world.' 
But you looked down and said, ' I know you not. 

Nor want I other kingdom than my soul.' 
Till Love in shame, convicted of his plot, 

Left you and turned him to some other goal 
And this discomfiture which you had seen 

Long served you for your homily and boast, 
While, of your beauty and yourself the queen, 

You lived a monument of vain love crossed. 
With scarce a thought of that which might have been 

To scare you with the ghost of pleasures lost. 

IL 

Your youth flowed on, a river chaste and fair. 

Till thirty years were written to your name. 
A wife, a mother, these the titles were 

Which conquered for you the world's fairest fame. 
In all things you were wise but in this one. 

That of your wisdom you yourself did doubt. 
Youth spent like age, no joy beneath the sun, 

Yonr^'glass of beauty vainly running out. 



4i6 MORE POT-POURRI 

Then suddenly again, ere well you knew, 

Love looked upon you tenderly, yet sad. 
' Are these wise follies, then, enough for you ? ' 

He said ; ' love's wisdom were itself less mad.' 
And you : ' What wouldst thou of me ? ' ' My bare 

In token of what joys may yet be had.' 

III. 

Again Love left you. With appealing eyes 

Tou watched him go, and lips apart to speak. 
He left you, and once more the sun did rise 

And the sun set, and week trod close on week 
And month on month, till you had reached the goal 

Of forty years, and life's full waters grew 
To bitterness and flooded all your soul, 

Making you loathe old things and pine for new. 
And you into the wilderness had fled. 

And in your desolation loud did cry, 
' Oh for a hand to turn these stones to bread 1 ' 

Then in your ear Love whispered scornfully, 
' Thou too, poor fool — thou, even thou,' he said, 

' Shalt taste thy little honey ere thou die.' 

As grown-ups have such difficulty in understanding 
children, so do men and women find it hard to under- 
stand each other. Many a young husband, often ' one of 
the best,' deeply wounds and pains his wife quite unin- 
tentionally. It is a mistake to be too sensitive ; we must 
take people as they are. To most men it will always be 
as Coventry Patmore so prettily says : 

A woman is a foreign land. 

Of which, though there he settled young, 

A man will ne'er quite understand 
The customs, politics, and tongue. 

Owen Meredith translates the same thought in the 
reverse way, and with a more personal note, thus : 

Dearest, our love is perfect, as love goes I 
Your kisses fill my frame and fire my blood ; 

And nothing fails the sweetness each bestows 
Except the joy of being understood. 



AUGUST 417 

If for one single moment, once alone, 
And in no more than one thing only, this 

Moreover only the most trivial one, 
You could but understand me — Ah, the bliss ! 

One of the ideas I find most common in women, and 
not only young ones, is that in starting a Platonic affection 
with a man, sometimes at a certain sacrifice to themselves, 
they believe they do it for his sake, and that they are raising 
his moral nature. I am very doubtful whether the 
influence that comes through that kind of love between 
men and women, which in these days is called ' friendship,' 
ever works very much for good, as the influence savours 
of that old-fashioned education I have already condemned, 
which tries to make persons what we wish them to be, 
in contradistinction to making them understand that 
their only possible growth or improvement must come 
through their own self-development. Self-deception 
comes in when the woman persuades herself that she is 
helping the man to do that which he could not do alone. 
This means that at best she is only a temporary prop, 
which never yet strengthened anybody. The man who 
sees the position, and wishes to continue the ' friendship,' 
always uses the argument that the matter rests with the 
woman, but that if she gives him up things will be worse 
with him than they ever were before. In a publication 
I have already mentioned, called ' The London Year- 
Book,' there is a long poem on social life with the title 
' Flagellum Stultorum ' (The Plogging of Pools). In it I 
find a passage which once more lays bare the absurdity 
and false sentiment of such a position : 

. . . Woman's saddest mental dower 
Is not to know the limits of her power. 
And thus 'tis chief of woman's wild intents 
To know men's motives and their sentiments. 
Believe me, gentle sex, there's not a man. 
However mean his intellectual scan, 

E E 



4i8 MORE POT-POURRI 

But comprehencls us better far than do 

The wisest, keenest, cleverest of you. 

The street-boy understands, upon my life, 

The Lord High Ohano'llor, better than his -wife. 

So, when a woman turns her wits again, 

And hopes to modify the ways of men, 

I look to see, when faith and practice meet. 

Her tears bedew the pathway to defeat. 

Samuel Johnson, who married a widow twenty years 
older than himself, and quarrelled with her on his way to 
church, as he said he was not to be made the slave of 
caprice, and was resolved to begin as he meant to end, 
also said in after-life : ' Praise from a wife comes home 
to a man's heart.' I am sure this is equally the case 
with the wife. I have known many happy couples, but 
never one that did not beam with joy at real praise and 
appreciation from husband to wife, or wife to husband. Of 
course, however, all flattery must be given with discretion. 

Every girl after marriage should expect to be not 
understood, and to remember this is part of the mysterious 
scheme of life which probably on the whole tends to 
good ; at any rate, it sharpens the interest of life. How 
far do we not go to find ' an undiscovered country ' ? 
Besides, if it is a trial it is lightened by remembering it is 
the same for all. Lucas Malet seems to think it is 
universal : 

' Do two human beings, especially of the opposite sex, 
ever fully understand one another ? Have any two ever 
done so, since the world began ? History and personal 
observation alike answer in the negative, I fear ; for, alas ! 
the finest and liveUest imagination stops short of complete 
comprehension of the thoughts, aims, predilections of even 
the nearest and best loved. In truth, is not each one of us 
after all under sentence of something very like perpetual 
solitary confinement in the prison-house of our own 
individuality ? ' 



AUGUST 419 

One of the many pranks love plays us is that, when 
women love, one of their chief joys is to pour out their whole 
souls — past, present, and to come — thinking that, because 
the man enjoys it and shows sympathy, he understands ; but 
he does not a bit, and quickly forgets all she has told him. 
One reason why the early months of marriage are so often 
the least happy is that the two individuals expect each to 
understand the other. Mr. Lecky somewhere puts it that 
the art of a politician in a great measure is that of skilful 
compromise, and that someone whose name I forget ' was 
ever ready with the offer of a golden bridge or via media 
in order to reconcile effectually differences of opinion.' 
Does not this vnsdom equally extend to married, and 
indeed to all family life ? If one of the two is always 
offering this golden bridge, I do not see how things can 
go very far wrong. I have known many married people 
of all ages — some older, some contemporary, and some 
younger — and my astonishment is that on the whole so 
few marriages have been real failures. What gives the 
impression of failure to the young is that they often 
judge of the happiness or unhappiness of married life from 
the generation of their parents. When people have been 
married for eighteen or twenty years the conditions of 
their lives are entirely different from what they were in 
earlier years. E,ven if mutual devotion is still there, 
the display of it is subdued, and children instinctively 
&,ssume that neither their parents nor their parents' 
friends were ever in love with each other. Also it is true 
that this middle life is frequently the most trying time in 
the marriage tie. Early love is over, time has developed 
the differences of the two individuals, and they have not 
yet attained to the more reasonable calm that often 
supervenes in later years. And yet this half-way time is 
just what is presented to the critical eyes of the young 
as they are growing up. 

E E 2 



420 MORE POT-POURRI 

There is a love which never tries to call itself by any 
other name, and which in time may grow into a very real 
and noble friendship. This is perhaps the most perfect 
development of happiness in marriage that can occur, but 
no doubt it is rare. 

Mr. Michael Field in a little poem of great delicacy 
shows how Cupid may sometimes heal the wound he has 
himself inflicted ; 

Ah, Eros does not always smite 

With cruel, shining dart, 
Whose bitter point with sudden might 

Bends the unhappy heart — 
Not thus for ever purple-stained 

And sore with steely touch, 
Else were its living fountain drained 

Too oft and overmuch. 
O'er it sometimes the boy will deign 

Sweep the shaft's feathered end : 
And friendship rises, without pain. 

Where the white plumes descend. 

Mrs. Holland in her charming letters remarks on a 
saying of Mr. George Meredith's in ' The Egoist ' : ' The 
scene in which, while his mother's death is imminent, he 
pictures his own, and wants to make Clara swear, is 
extraordinarily good, and that word of hers — " I can only 
be of value to you, Willoughby, by being myself " — contains, 
to my mind, the very gospel of marriage. So many marriages 
are more or less spoilt by the man wanting the woman to be 
his echo — not his friend.' Perfect friendship between men 
and women can only come, I think, after love — not before it. 

Jowett felt the extreme diflficulty of friendship between 
men and women, and said : ' Hegel was right in con- 
demning the union of souls without bodies. Such schemes 
of imaginary pleasure are wholly unsatisfactory. The 
characters of human beings are not elevated enough for 
them. The religious ideal, the philosophical ideal, is far 



AUGUST 421 

better than the ideal of female friendship. If any 
pleasure is to be gained from this, it must be strictly 
regulated — never allowed to pass into love or excitement 
— of a noble, manly sort, with something of protecting 
care in it.' 

Jowett also speaks of the sadder side of friendships, 
which we have all experienced. Though friendship is often 
represented as love eternal, it is not so at all, and needs 
as much, if not more maintaining than love of another 
kind. 

He says : ' I do not know whether friendships wear 
out, like clothes — not if they are kept in repair, and are 
not too violent. Then they last, and are a great comfort 
in this weary world.' 

As I am known to be a strong advocate of marriage, 
girls often say to me : ' Do you mean that we are to 
marry somebody who wants to marry us, whether we 
really like them or not ? ' To this there seems to me 
only one answer : ' If you are perfectly certain that you 
like one man better than anybody else, you must get over 
that before you can marry another. While this strong 
feeUng lasts, and to my belief it will last only so long as, 
at the back of everything, there is some hope, I would 
advise you not to marry anyone else — in fact, under the 
circumstances, to think of it would be revolting.' Of 
course this is the same for men and women. When this 
feeling has died down to a memory, almost the most real 
and yet the most unreal fact in one's whole life, then I 
think a girl should try and make her future by keeping 
herself for the best type of man who may wish to marry 
her, not expecting to be ever again — at any rate, in her 
youth — blindly in love. 

A common saying, and one upon which I have seen 
many people hang their lives, is Tout vient a qui sait 
attendre. This is the version current in England. The 



422 MORE POT-POURRI 

correct French proverb is Tout vient d point a qui sait 
attendre, wMch, however, does not alter the sense. I 
have always considered it one of the most untrue sayings 
with an appearance of wisdom that there is. The only 
thing that surely comes to those who wait in this manner 
is death. Stating this opinion of mine the other day, 
someone else maintained that they took it in another 
sense, and that the crux of its meaning lay not in the 
word attend/re, but in the word sait (' Everything comes to 
those who know how to wait '). Skill in waiting, how to 
utilise to a given end all events that occur— such waiting 
brings about the coming of desired things. This was 
perhaps the original meaning of the saying ; it is certainly 
not the accepted popular interpretation of to-day. 

One of the virtues that I think is over-praised at all 
ages, in women especially, is constancy. Constancy is 
splendid and much to be admired where two people are 
constant ; but where it is one-sided, and neither wanted 
nor appreciated by the other sex, I think it is rather of 
the same order as the non-changing of opinions in Blake's 
comparison in ' Heaven and Hell ' : ' The man who never 
changes his opinion is like standing water, and breeds 
reptiles of the mind.' 

Mr. Henry James says, with a strength that is almost 
crushing to us women, who cling with such persistency 
to our delusions : ' Illusions are sweet to the dreamer, 
but not so to the observer, who has a horror of a fool's 
paradise.' 

Shelley gives us strength by saying: 'The past is 
death's, the future is thine own. Take it while it is still 
yours, and fix your mind, not on what you may have 
done long ago to hurt, but on what you can now do to 
help.' 

Jowett, Uke most teachers Of the young, placed a great, 
it maybe an excessive, value on success. It distressed 



AUGUST 423 

him to see his pupils making a mess of life. He wished 
them to take their part in the work of their generation 
with energy and effect. And yet one of his pupils writes 
' that it was Jowett, as much as anyone, who taught me 
that work, not success, made life worth living.' I quote 
this here in my chapter to young women, though it is 
intended for men, because it applies equally to women, 
and has a cheerful ring. Women's work is seldom 
crowned with success, but it is always there in some shape 
or another, ready for them to take up ; and if they do so 
the result, if there is none other, will at least be the 
strengthening and improving of their own lives, not by 
escaping their trials, but by learning to bear them better. 

Goethe says : ' Everything that happens to us leaves 
some trace behind ; everything contributes imperceptibly 
to make us what we are. Yet it is often dangerous to 
take a strict account of it. For either we grow proud and 
negligent, or downcast and dispirited ; and both are equally 
injurious in their consequences. The surest plan is just 
to do the nearest task that lies before us.' 

I do not believe the state of mind which improves a 
woman's character ever comes without some intellectual 
effort. Most women of a certain type generally fly to 
music and desultory reading. Both these may be turned 
to serious use. Both may be only another form of the 
excitement which brings on reaction. Drawing and art 
were the saving of me. The creative work and the endless 
intellectual ramifications independent of — in fact, active 
against — a society Ufe made drawing most useful to me. 
It does not much matter what the occupation is, so long 
as it is a mental gymnastic — something which stretches 
and strengthens the mind, and consequently, I think, the 
character— something which takes us away from the 
accusation which George Eliot puts as follows : ' We 
women are always in danger of living too exclusively in 



424 MORE POT-POURRI 

the affections. And though our affections are perhaps 
the best gifts we have, we ought also to have our share 
of the more independent Ufe — some joy in things for their 
own sake. It is piteous to see the helplessness of some 
sweet women when their affections are disappointed — 
because all their teaching has been, that they can only 
delight in study of any kind for the sake of a personal 
love. They have never contemplated an independent 
deUght in ideas as an experience which they could con- 
fess without being laughed at.' Many will smile at my 
thinking it necessary in these days to make this quotation ; 
but women's natures remain the same — yesterday, to-day, 
and for ever — and in certain phases of family Ufe, and 
surrounded by the difficulties they entail, George Eliot's 
caution may be as much wanted by some young women 
as it was, more universally, forty years ago. Of course 
this is an entirely different thing from cramming children 
in early youth. 

There was nothing Jowett spoke of with so much 
bitterness as useless learning. ' How I hate learning ! ' 
he exclaimed. ' How sad it is to see a man who is learned 
and nothing else, incapable of making any use of his 
knowledge ! ' If this is true of men, is it not doubly true 
of women ? ' Is learning of any use ? ' he asks himself 
in one of his notebooks ; and the answer is : ' Men are 
often or always unable to use it. It keeps men quiet, it 
clogs their efforts, it is creditable, it gratifies curiosity; 
but, for progress to mental improvement, learning without 
thought or ima^nation is worse than useless.' 

Goethe says : ' To the man of superficial cleverness 
almost everything takes a ridiculous aspect ; to the man 
of thought almost nothing is really ridiculous.' 

I quote Jowett's strong condemnation of useless 
learning, as it should put us on our mettle to learn in such 
a way as is most likely to be useful to fill the vacuum in 



AUGUST 425 

our individual lives. But we must remember that Jowett 
lived in an atmosphere vrhere learning for learning's sake 
surrounded him, and the choice for him lay between well- 
directed and mis-directed learning. I chng, however, to 
the idea that even somewhat useless learning is better than 
none, as the mere effort to learn does good. 

Mothers who like keeping their girls at home, and who 
see them content in a round of empty gaiety and excite- 
ment, often say : ' I am in no hurry for my girls to 
marry ; they are happy and merry at home.' As men's 
bachelor lives often unfit them for marriage, so girls' 
lives are just as apt to do the same. They have to 
fit themselves for either marriage or old-maidism, and 
this is not done by prolonging unduly the life described 
in one line by La Fontaine : La cigale ayant chante tout 
I'itS, etc. I remember my mother telling me that she 
had rather pitied a sad-looking elderly girl at a Newcastle, 
ball. Her partner remarked : ' Yes, no wonder ; poor girl ! 
she is just recovering from her seven-and-twentieth dis- 
appointment.' This of course is an exaggeration, but it 
is characteristic of what may happen. After a certain 
amount of rushing about, a girl should herself realise that 
she can no more live on social excitements vnthout 
deterioration than her body can thrive on sal-volatile. 
These remarks must always apply only to the large 
average. Women who are very attractive to men, as I 
said in my first book, have the ball at their feet, and, as 
regards the other sex, can do as they hke. 

One of the best, noblest, and most useful old maids 
I have ever known once said to me : ' Why was I not 
warned, why did no one remind me that to most women 
the chances do not come often, and that if we do not take 
them while we are young and have something to give, 
they do not come again, or not at any rate in the way 
that, being older, we can accept ? ' 



426 MORE POT-POURRI 

When women turn to practical -work, their high hopes 
are even more frequently disappointed than those of men 
— so many things weight their career, and the sense of 
failure is so frequently all that they reap. 

Have you thought, in your moments of triumph. 

Oh you that are high in the tree, 
Of the days and the nights that are bitter — 

So bitter to others and me ? 
When the efforts to do what is clever 

Eesult in a failure so sad, 
And the clouds of despondency gather 

And dim all the hopes that we had ? 

Have you thought when the world was applauding 

Your greatness, whatever it be, 
Of the tears that in silence were falling — 

Yes, falling from others and me ? 
When the hardest and latest endeavours 

Appeared to be only in vain, 
And we've curtained our eyes in the night-time 

Indiff'renl to waking again ? 

Those who just miss their lives are those I pity. It 
seems to me that, of all bad teaching, the worst is to live 
only in the present and try in no way to look to the 
future. 

Great sorrow or trouble, or loss of money or sickness, 
seem mercifully to preserve in some women certain 
qualities of youth which always remain attractive to men, 
even far on into middle life. Such misfortunes embalm 
the qualities which the more ordinary experiences and 
pleasures of life destroy. Hence the unexpected and 
deep love episodes at an age when young people imagine 
such a thing is impossible. I remember quite well think- 
ing at eighteen : ' What does it matter what women of 
thirty do ? ' Has not the world been lately given an 
example of this kind of love, for which it will eternally be 
the richer, in the Browning love-letters ? 



AUGUST 427 

That clever old French wit Chamfort, when he was 
reproached by a lady for not caring about women, 
answered : ' Je puis dire sur elles ce que disait Madame 
de C. sur les enfants : " J'ai dans ma t6te un fils dont je 
n'ai jamais pu accoucher " ; j'ai dans I'esprit une femme 
comme il y en a peu, qui me preserve des femmes comme 
il y en a beaucoup ; j'ai bien des obligations k cette femme- 
la.' I believe this kind of feeling keeps many, especially 
cautious men, bachelors. This is a mistake, even from 
their own point of view, as these are the very men who 
are apt to fall victims to strong fancies when it is least 
wise for them to do so ; and when they are on the borders 
of old age Nature often has her revenge. 

I quote the Chamfort story to remind girls that good 
and sensible men require certain qualities in a woman 
whom they are thinking of marrying, and the reason why 
ordinary women are wise to consider twice about refusing 
to marry young is that perhaps that gift of youth is the 
only real thing they will ever have to give a man. "When 
a dead level of mediocrity is reached, think how large is 
a man's choice, in England especially ! What is there in 
a woman of from thirty to thirty-five, who has knocked 
about the world, flirted and amused herself, given and 
taken all she could get, that should particularly make a 
man desire to marry her ? Her freshness is gone, and her 
want of wisdom is often sadly apparent. 

We all know ' Punch's ' advice to a man about to marry : 
' Don't.' My advice is exactly the contrary. I say : Do, 
and don't wait till love of your bachelorhood becomes too 
strong a custom. But except when very young, in which 
case the wild oats will probably be sown in an undignified 
way at the end of life, don't marry exclusively for what is 
called love. Let the heart and the head go together. 
For a woman I think it is wise and often right to marry 
a man out of a sort of gratitude ; it rarely answers for a 



428 MORE POT-POURRI 

man to marry for this reason a woman who has loved him 
not wisely but too well. 

I do not for one entirely condemn the French customs 
as regards marriage, though I believe they themselves are 
modifying them. When marriages are a question of 
reason and arrangement, I think it is better that such 
things should be managed by the elders than by the 
young people; and if Enghshmen of sense, when they 
make up their minds to marry, would take the help and 
advice of older women in seeking a wife, instead of going 
about with the hope that they may be fancy-stricken 
through the eye, I think more suitable marriages would 
be brought about, both as regards character and the very 
natural wish that the woman should have a certain pro- 
portion of money to help the joint minage. 

If a man who has married with his best judgment 
really cares to win the love of a girl after marriage, and 
takes pains to do so, he is sure to succeed — it is so 
natural for a good affectionate woman to love her husband 
and the father of her children. 

Of course if a girl, with no sense of duty, merely sells 
herself to shine in the world, or for admiration and 
notoriety, which she thinks she will get better married 
than single, there is nothing to be said. Such things will 
always be ; but a girl of that type is rare, and almost as 
mischievous single as married. The type of women that 
men often know most about was thus described to me by 
a man. He gave it as his deliberate opinion of women 
as he had found them : ' They are curious creatures ; in 
religion they can beUeve fifty times as much as any man. 
In love they only believe when they see and hear you ; as 
soon as your back is turned they scream and cry out you 
have abandoned them. Before you come they want you, 
when you have gone you have betrayed them, and they 
wonder that a man cannot bear that sort of thing for 



AUGUST 429 

ever. Do you call me practical for speaking in this way ? 
Very well, I am practical — and tell you what I know.' 

To go back to bur original text, ' The Marriage 
Market.' The writers of all four articles seem to me too 
much under the impression that marriages are decided by 
the parents. So far as my experience goes, in England 
this is not the case. The girls take their lives in their 
own hands, though often with very insufficient knowledge. 
I have known girls who distrust to such a degree the 
feelings they may have for a man who is rich that they 
have actually refused him for fear they should be 
influenced by worldly reasons, everyone about them 
taking it for granted that they could never be so foolish 
as not to marry him. Many girls think of marriage 
solely as a means of escaping home duties, and assume 
that the duties will be lighter after marriage than before. 

I hear many people condemn the girl who ' marries 
for money ' ; and Marie Corelli vituperates against the 
women who ' sell themselves,' as she calls it. This seems 
to me unfair. Marriage and even love do not alter a 
nature; and if a girl knows herseH, and is quite well aware 
that she cares most for the things that money alone can 
give her, I think there is more of wickedness if she makes 
the misery of the man she may like best by marrying him 
if he is poor, than in accepting the rich man if she can 
get him. I speak only of those whose standard of life is 
a low one. What is supremely idiotic, and distinctly the 
fault of the mother, showing a general want of training, is 
to imagine that when you marry a man for his money, 
whom you neither love nor admire, you are to have as well 
all the joys of life which no money can buy. The thing 
is ridiculous. There are few who, like Danae, can have 
god and gold together. Marrying for money or position 
may be a high or a low Une ; it is often the only vent for 
a woman's ambition. But if she does it of her own free 



430 MORE POT-POURRI 

•will, thoroughly understanding and facing what she 
undertakes, in nine cases out of ten she will carry it 
through and make the best of it. The person who ' has 
gained the world ' is perhaps the one least likely to throw 
it away. It is the sentimental, warm-hearted, impression- 
able girl, who marries some man of the world not 
knowing what she is doing, who turns to someone else 
for consolation in bitterness of spirit when she finds out 
her mistake. 

The tone of the day, as it is often represented in 
ephemeral literature, is that, so far as the moral life goes, 
the sexes should be equal. This has given rise to a very 
natural feeling amongst girls : that it is a matter of no 
importance which loves most or even first, the man or the 
woman. The stronger feehng on the woman's side is a 
phase of the relations between men and women which 
always has been and always will be ; but the open acknow- 
ledgment of it is certainly much more common now than 
forty years ago. Nothing changes Nature, and especially in 
youth it is natural for the man to take the initiative. The 
cultivation of pride in a woman is much to be desired, and 
would never deter a man who was really in earnest in his 
pursuit. In fact, we all value what is difficult of attain- 
ment. I found this well expressed in an American 
periodical which I took up by chance last year ; it was 
called ' The Way of Man ' : 

There was many a Bose in the glen to-day 

As I wanderedthrough, 
And every bud that looked my way 

Was rich of hue. 
Tet the one in my hand, 

Do you understand ? 
Not a whit more sweet, not quite so fair, 

But it grew in the breach of the cliff up there. 

A question I have frequently heard discussed by 
people who perhaps would be the very last to be them- 



AUGUST 431 

selves in such a situation, is whether a woman with a 
' past ' is bound to tell it to a man who has proposed to 
her, and whom she wishes to accept. A large proportion of 
these people who now go in for ' equalising ' the sexes say, 
' No ; she is not bound to tell,' and they argue that a man 
does not lay his past before a woman when he is engaged 
to marry her. It may be very unjust, but I cannot see 
that the cases are parallel. The woman fears that if she 
tells her story to the man, he will not marry her. If this 
is really the case, her acceptance of his offer is a species 
of fraud. To begin a life of partnership under such cir- 
cumstances means that the woman puts herself on the 
level of a man who cheats his friend at cards or sells 
him a bad horse. The reason why the position of the 
woman differs from that of the man is due to that 
unwritten law accepted amongst civilised nations. The 
man who does not recognise this law will be unaffected by 
the confession of her past ; the man who does recognise it 
ought not to be deceived. 

I think most girls of to-day understand that there is a 
veiled side to many men's lives, and that a man's past has 
to be accepted, not cavilled at, by a girl who understands 
life when she marries a man who is not very young, and 
who has knocked about the world. She would scarcely 
wish him to tell her details of passing love affairs ; but I 
would go so far, without any insult to him, as to 
recommend that a girl who knows what she is doing 
should solemnly, and in all tenderness and love, just 
before marriage, put the question to the man she is 
engaged to whether his particular past entails any serious 
ties upon him. By this I mean that she should know 
whether he has children whom he ought to educate and 
look after, in order that she may not only face the fact, 
but also help him to do his duty by them. No secret 
should come between them, especially not one which, if 



432 MORE POT-POURRI 

ignored, might perhaps bring forth future trouble. If he 
has no such ties, so much the better for everybody. If he 
has, she who is about to marry him should share the 
troubles and privations that they entail. So many 
problems in this life are solved by courage. Facing such 
a position does not make it, whereas ignoring it may 
weave difficulties and misery. 

Optimism I have always believed to be the right rule 
of conduct both for men and nations. Yet there is truth 
in what I have somewhere read that it must not be an 
optimism without intelligence. It should not be that 
kind of optimism which, to keep cheerful, must blot out 
menace by looking another way, and obUterate coming 
peril by turning the back. Neither in private nor in 
public life should it be the spurious optimism which is 
part dulness of perception, part moral weakness, part 
intellectual timidity, part something worse — I mean, 
refusal to recognise approaching danger because open 
recognition would have to be followed by the worry or 
expense of prevention. 

As I said before, it is so difficult to generaUse — not 
only because every individual case has a different aspect, 
but also because every ten years makes an entirely 
different platform for our conduct of hfe. This seems to 
me to be not sufficiently acknowledged. Once more I 
return to a bundle of letters, to find one written by a very 
old friend of our family, which talks of the decUne of life, 
from a man's point of view, in a way that is individual 
and yet appUcable to many : 

' I quite agree with you that it is very disagreeable to 
grow old, and I have always thought that if I had been 
Providence I would have made life begin with dotage and 
decrepitude, and go on freshening and improving to a 
primal death. But as I am a humble individual, and not 
Providence, I make up my mind to things as they are. 



AUGUST 433 

Neither old women nor old men can hope to be loved 
amorously or sentimentally, whatever other love they 
may obtain. I confess that for long years the ruling 
feeling of my life was a love of women, and a desire to be 
loved by them, not exactly with a passionate love, but 
with a love having in it some touch of amorous sentiment. 
It was for this that I chiefly valued my youth, my 
intellect, my celebrity, and whatever else I possessed 
that might help me to it. And it was through loving 
women, " not wisely but too well," that I made myself 
unpopular both with men and women; for I cared 
nothing about men, and they saw it and resented it, and 
yet women are in the hands of men, and he who would 
be popular with women should take care first to g6t men's 
good word. Even if I had taken count of this in time 
perhaps I should not have taken heed to it, for I was 
rather reckless and heedless in my youth, and more 
disposed to trust to Fortune than to take means, and 
perhaps I had also a sort of latent consciousness that 
what I desired was not good for me, and thus was I, in 
the absence of better safeguards. 

From social snares ■with ease 

Saved by that gracious gift, inaptitude to please. 

' Youth is dead and gone at eight-and-twenty, and one 
may mourn it for a year or two then ; but at thirty it is 
time to rise and eat bread, and after fifty one no more 
desires to be young than one desires to be the Archangel 
Michael or Henry VIII. One does not desire it because 
one cannot conceive it. The past is so long past that it 
is past being a subject for regret ; and as to the future, one 
has to look forward to losing one's eyes and ears and 
brains and some of the powers of one's stomach, but one 
has not the loss of youth to look forward to, and that is 
one source of sadness removed — and to me it used to be, 
thirty or forty years ago, a source of sadness ; for I was 

F F 



434 MORE POT-POURRI 

very fond of my youth, and cared more for it than for 
eyes, ears, brains, stomach, and all the rest. Now they 
have a fair share of my regard, and I shall be sorry for 
their decay. I think you make too much of my imagination 
as a resource. It is true that from time to time I join a 
party of phantoms, and find them pleasant to Hve ■with on 
the whole, though they sometimes give me a good deal of 
trouble, and at other times wear my nerves a httle. But 
my main resource is in my business. Acting to a purpose 
with steadiness and regularity is the best support to the 
spirits and the surest protection against sad thoughts. 
Eealities can contend with realities better than phantoms 
can . . . For the rest, Sydney Smith's precept is " Take 
short views of hfe." Henry Taylor expressed the same 
thing : 

Foresight is a melanolioly gift 

Which bares the bald and speeds the all-too-swift. 

' To invest one's personal interests in the day that is 
passing, and to project one's future interests into the 
children that are growing up, is the true policy of self-love 
in the decline of life, and as commendable a policy as it 
is in the nature of self-love to adopt.' 

I have recommended no books for girls. The question 
is much too big a one. But I cannot refrain from saying 
that within the compass of one smaU book I know 
nothing that comes up in wisdom and sagacity to Emer- 
son's essays called ' The Conduct of Life ' and ' Society 
and Solitude.' He says : ' Youth has an access of sensi- 
biUty before which every object glitters and attracts. We 
leave one pursuit for another, and the young man's year 
is a heap of beginnings. At the end of a twelvemonth he 
has nothing to show for it, not one completed work. But 
the time is not lost.' If this is true of young men, it is 
doubly true of young women. Every experience is a 
growth, and every growth tends towards completion of 



AUGUST 435 

life rightly understood. There should never be hopeless- 
ness and despair, whatever happens. The future is always 
ours, to conquer and make noble. No one can really 
crush us. Trodden under foot, if we choose we may rise 
again better, even nobler, than all the fortunate ones 
around us. It all depends on ourselves. That is why 
I admire Mr. George Moore's ' Esther Waters ' almost 
above all modern novels, although Messrs. Smith & Son, 
whose stalls are covered with translations of French 
novels, refused to sell it. 

In spite of age and experience, I feel that on all these 
difficult subjects I have said very little that can be of use 
to anybody. There is no receipt by which we can regulate 
our lives. ' As our day is, so shall our strength be ' is a 
fact to those who train their natures to meet with courage 
the difficulties as they arise. 

One of our old divines states that ' Our infancy is full 
of folly ; youth, of disorder and toil ; age, of infirmity. Each 
time hath his burden, and that which may justly work 
our weariness ; yet infancy longeth after youth ; and youth 
after more age ; and he that is very old, as he is a child for 
simplicity, so he would be for years. I account old age 
the best of the three, partly for that it has passed through 
the folly and disorder of the others ; partly, for that the 
inconveniences of this are but bodily, with a bettered estate 
of the mind ; and partly, for that it is nearest to dissolu- 
tion.' I wish I could agree with Bishop Hall, but I do 
not. I very often feel that quite the worst part of old age 
is that it brings us so near to dissolution. My sympathies 
all remain with the young, and I only feel at times 
inclined to cry out with Thomas Moore : 

Give me back, give me back the wild freshness of Morning ; 
Her clouds and her tears are worth Evening's best light. 

I fear everyone will think this is not at all as it 

F F 2 



436 MORE POT-POURRI 

shoiild be ; and I only feel it sometimes, and perhaps even 
that won't last. 

This is good-bye, dear reader. Collecting these notes 
has given me pleasure and also cost me trouble. I can- 
not do better than close them by quoting what were 
almost the last lines ever written by my kind friend and 
brother-in-law, Owen Meredith. I owe him as large a 
debt of gratitude as one human being can owe another. 
It was due to his friendly advice and his kind encourage- 
ment that my mind was saved from that sense of failure 
and disappointment so common — to women, at any rate — 
in middle life. He taught me how all ages have their 
advantages, and gave me courage to go on learning even 
to the end. He always seemed able to see the hne of 
the other shore with a brightness not granted to me : 

My songs flit away on the wing : 

They are fledged with a smile or a sigh : 

And away with the songs that I sing 
Flit my joys, and my sorrows, and I. 

For time, as it is, cannot stay : 

Nor again, as it was, can it be : 
Disappearing and passing away 

Are the world, and the ages, and we. 

Gone, even before we can go. 
Is our past, with its passions forgot, 

The dry tears of its wept-away woe, 
And its laughters that gladden us not. 

The builder of heaven and of earth 

Is our own fickle fugitive breath . 
As it comes in the moment of birth, 

So it goes in the moment of death. 

As the years were before we began, 
ShaU the years be when we are no more : 

And between them the years of a man 
Are as waves the wind drives to the shore. 



AUGUST 437 



Back into the Infinite tend 

The creations that out of it stait : 

Unto every beginning an end, 

And whatever arrives shall depart. 

But I and my songs, for a while. 
As together away on the wing 

We are borne with a sigh or a smile, 
Have been given this message to sing- 

The Now is an atom of sand, 
And the Near is a perishing clod : 

But Afar is as Faery Land, 

And Beyond is the bosom of God. 



INDEX 



Abutilon vitifoUum, 177 
Abntilons, 263 
Acacia dealbata, 206 
Acis autumnalis, 139 
Aconites, 168, 261 
Adonis autumnalis, 139 

— vemalis, 264 
Aga^anthus, 87 
Albany, Countess of, 314 
Allenii, 264 
Almond, 211, 304 
Alonsoa Warscewiczi, 139 
Alpines, 271 

AUtrmmeria ipsittacina, 175 
Alsti'cemerias, 305 
Alyssum, 253 

Amiel, Professor, his house at 
Geneva and his portrait, 373, 
374 

Ampelopsis veitchii, 362, 363 

Amygdalus davidiana, 205, 211 

Anchusa capensis, 167 

— italica, 167 

— sempervirens, 167 
Audromedas, 265 
Anemone fulgens grcBcii, 264 

— Pulsatilla, 261 

Anemone, scarlet, tradition of, 
304 

Angelo, Michael, villa said to 
have been designed by, 348 

Annuals, list of, 139, 167 ; sow- 
ing, 256 

Apple-trees, 157 

Apples, nourishing properties of, 
157, 158, 268 



Apricots, purie of, 807 
Araucaria, 95 

Artichokes, Jerusalem, 131 
Arums, 181 
Arve, river, 375 
Asclepias incarnata, 361 

— tuberosa, 361 
Ashburnham collection, the, 

162 
Asparagus, 58, 180, 258; wild, 

272 ; salad, 307 
Aspidistras, 169 
Aspidium, 205 
Association for the Prevention of 

Tuberculosis, 80 
Aster amellus, 91 

— grandiflora, 91 
Auriculas, 289, 290 

Austin, Mr. Alfred, definition of 

love by, 412 
Azalea mdica alba, 207 
Azaleas, 176-178, 207, 253 



Babies, management of, 231 sgg. 
Bagehot, Walter, on luxury, 

231 
B^e, its associations with 

Erasmus, 378, 379 ; pictures by 

Boeoklin at, 879 
Balloon-plants, 174 
Banana, the, superstition about, 

304 
Bashkirtseff, Marie, 321, 403 
Baskets, Japanese, 263 
Beans, haricot, to cook, 150 



44° 



MORE POT-POURRI 



Beds, raised, 347 

Beech-trees, avenue of, 49, 50 ; 
128 

Beet, boUed, 99 

Begonias, 161, 180 

Berenson, on modern art, 354, 
355 

Besler, Basil, 93 

Bible, the Tissot, 162 

Birds, feeding, in winter, 144, 
145 ; eating buds, 204 ; the 
harm and the good they do, 
282 

Blaokbeetles, to destroy, 215 

Blackie, Professor, on squsindered 
lives, 367 

Blake, William, allusion to, 
422 

Bleeding, for fever, 223 

Blight on carnations, &c., mix- 
ture for destroying, 383 

Blinds, substitutes for, 397 ; 
drawing them down in cases of 
death, 398 

Blunt, Mr. Wilfred, sonnets on 
love by, 414-416 

Boecblin, Arnold, picture by, 71- 
73 ; his pictures at Bale, 378- 
380; M. Edouard Eod's criti- 
cism of, 380 

Books on cookery, 9, 40, 59, 64, 
215, 298, 307 

Books on gardening, botany, &c. : 
Mrs. Loudon's ' Amateur Gar- 
dener,' 4 ; Curtis's ' Botanical 
Magazine,' 24, 26; Mrs. 
Brightwen's ' Glimpses into 
Plant Life,' 25 ; Eobinson's 
'English Flower Garden,' 26, 
163; Sutton's 'Culture of 
Vegetables and Flowers,' 28 ; 
Wright's ' Profitable Fruit- 
growing,' 28, 29 ; Loudon's 
' Ladies' Flower Garden,' 31, 
89 ; ' The Gentlewoman,' 45, 
59, 98 ; Milner's ' Country 
Pleasures,' 52-55 ; Maund's 
'Botanic Garden' and the 
' Botanist,' 85, 164, 270 ; John- 
son's ' Gardener's Dictionary,' 
90, 163; Besler's 'Hortus 



Eystettensis,' 93 ; Wallace's 
' Notes on Lilies and their Cul- 
ture,' 94 ; Loudon's ' Arboretum 
et Fruticetum,' 129 ; the ' Ee- 
tired Gardener,' 129 ; Wright's 
' Profitable Fruit-growing,' 130, 
131 ; Sydenham's ' How I came 
to grow Bulbs,' 48, 133 ; VU- 
moriu's ' Vegetable Garden,' 
149 ; Smee's ' My Garden,' 
153 ; Brightwen's ' Guide to 
the Study of Botany,' 202; 
EUacombe's ' Gloucestershire 
Garden,' 203 ; Lindley's ' Eosa- 
rum Monographia,' 204 ; Miss 
JekyU's ' Wood and Garden,' 
208, 209 ; M. Correvon's books 
on floriculture, 376 

Books on health and the causa- 
tion of disease, 218, 219, 221 

Books on natural history, 52, 30O 

Boots, brown, polishing, 214 

Borage, Italian, 344 

Bordeaux mixture for blight, 383 

Botticelli, illustrations of Dant& 
by, 162; Pater on, 313; two 
pictures in the Pitti gallery 
by, 352, 353 ; his qualities as 
an artist, 354, 355 

Bottles, corking, 61 

Bouvardia, 132 

Boyhood, reminiscences of, 118- 
127 

Boys, training of, 12 ; indepen- 
dence in, 13 

Bran-water, 286 

Bread-sauce, receipts for, 40, 41 

Brightwen, Mrs., ' Glimpses into 
Plant Life ' by, 25 ; ' Guide to 
the Study of Botany ' by, 202 

Brompton Hospital, 79 

BrowalUa data, 167 

Browne, Sir Thomas (quoted), 
200 

Browning love-letters, the, 426 

Browning, Mrs., verses on the 
reciprocal needs between 
North and South Europe, 365 ; 
on love, 413 

Bulbs, cultivation of, 47-49, 133 

BuUace, the, 132 



INDEX 



441 



Buouafede, Cardinal Lionardo, 

tomb of, 340 
Burbidge, Mr., lecture by, 286 
Burne-Jones, picture of Pan and 

Psyche by, 260, 275 ; his death, 

358 ; Mr. Buskin's opinion of 

his work, 359 
Butterflies, 34, 35, 167 ; book on, 

281 
Byron, Lord, his travelling coach 

on the Continent, 70 ; Moore's 

' Life ' of, 70 ; verses by, 358 ; 

at Geneva, 373 

Cabbage, red, 96 ; green, 159, 

287 ; cooking, 306 
Cactuses, 283-285 ^ 
Calendula pkivialis, 270, 271 
Calochorti, 174 
Camellias, 28, 127, 253, 345 
Campanula pyramidalis, 24, 305, 

393, 394 
Campanula tribe, 305 
Canard k la Bouennaise, 65 
Cape, the, plants from, charac- 
teristics of, 37 
Carlisle, Lady, letters of, 112 
Carnations, 263, 347, 383 
Carpenteria Californica, 177 
Carpet on stairs, 398 
Carfets, sweeping, 199 
Caryopteris macranthe, 26 
Casseroles, 61 
Cassia australis, 362 
— corymbosa, 36 
CasteUane, Comtesse de, verses 

by, 83 
Casts, plaster, 275 
Catalpa syringcefolia, 361 
Catananche ccerulea, 167 
Caterpillar, 'Pale Tussock,' 56, 57 
Cedar-wood as a deodoriser, 237 
Celandine, 210 
Celeriac, 57, 66 
Cerasus, 211 

Cerasus pseudo-cerasus, 285 
Cereus, night-flowering, 285 
Chamb6ri, 369 
Chamfort (quoted), 427 
Character, formation of, 16 
Charles I. and Henrietta Maria, 



painting in the Pitti gallery of, 
355 

' Charmilles,' 128 

Chasse, receipt for, 213 

Chelsea Physic Garden, 394, 395 

Cherries and semolina, receipt 
for, 391 

Cherry-trees, 211 

Chervil soup, 63 

Chestnuts au jus, 66 

Chestnuts, sweet Spanish, 36 

Chickens, cooking, 8, 41, 62, 68, 
150, 212, 297, 389 ; grammar 
of the word, 9 ; liver of, 151 

Chicory, 135 

Children : home-training, 12-20, 
244 sqci-; present- giving, 141, 
142 ; anecdotes, 142, 245, 250 ; 
management, 231 sqq. ; edu- 
cation, 242 sgg., 246 sqq. 

Chionodoxas, 264 

Chives, 180 

Choisya iernata, 171 

Christmas, decorations at, 141 

Chrysanthemums, 91, 127, 132, 
138, 285 

Churches, decorating, 141 

Chymonanthus fragrans, 29 

Cimicifugaraceniosa, 139 

Cineraria cruenta, 279 

Cineraria, double, 270 

Clematis cirrhosa, 153 

Cloud-effects, Mr. Euskin on, 
395, 396 

Coblentz, 82 

Cod, how to dress, 99, 100 

Coleridge, poems of, 110 

Collops, minced, 99 

CammeUna caelestis, 167, 174 

Conservatory, difference between 
a greenhouse and a, 90; 91, 
206, 279 

Constancy, the virtue of, over- 
praised, 422 

Conversation, the gift of, 404 

Convolvulvs mauritanicus, 362 

Cookery, books on, 9, 40, 59, 64, 
215, 298, 307 

Cooking in Germany, 61 

CorelU, Miss Marie, her views on 
marriage, 407, 410 



442 



MORE POT-POURRI 



Cornflowers, 167 
CornMll Magazine, 8 
Coronilla, 95, 207 
Cotoneaster microphylla, 56 
Cots, children's, 233 
Cottage-window gardening, 283 
Cotyledons, 47 
Cowper (quoted), 88 
Cremation, 269, 270 
Crimson Bambler, 345 
Crmo-dendron hookeri, 176 
Crvmim moorei, 90, 262 
Crinums, 90, 262 
Criticisms on the author's iiist 

book, 2-20 
Crockery, pouring boiling water 

into, 200 
Croczts speciosus, 57 
— tommasinianus, 261 
Crocuses, 261, 264 
Cronberg, a, visit to, 70, 71, 

381 
Cro&tes of ham and beans, 391 
Crow, Mrs., the ghost-seer anec- 
dote of, 230 
Crown Imperials, 303 ; legend 

about, 303 
Cucumbers, preserving, 42, 43 
Currants, 129, 392 
Curry, 48 
Curtains as substitutes for blinds, 

397, 398 
Curtis'B ' Botanical Magazuic,' 

24,26 
Cyclamens, 166, 205 
Cyperus laxus, 170 
Cypresses, 330, 332, 333, 363 
Cypripediums, 95 



DiB(Ecii polifoUa, 178 

Daffodils, 168, 206 

Dahlias, winter-preservation of, 

47 
Daisies, Michaelmas, 87, 91, 285 ; 

Paris, 95 
Damsons, pickled, 44 
Damson-trees, 132 
Dandelion, 211 
Dante, Botticelli's illustrations 

of, 162 



Daphne blagayaaia, 161,255,204 

— cneorum, 255 

— • imdica, 152, 153 

Datura, 90 

Daughters, see Girls, Love, 

Marriage, &o. 
Day-lily, 377 
Dead, the, regrets of the living 

for, 116, 117 
Deamer, Mrs., poem by, 243 
December, shortest days of, 136, 

137 
Delphiniums, 94 
De7idrobium mobile, 206 
Deodorisers for the house, 287 
Desfontainea spinosa, 154 
Deutsche Perle, 253 
Dictamnus fraxinella, 139 
Dielytra spectabilis, 28 
Diet, confessions about, 216 s^g,- 
Dimorphotheca ecUmis, 270 
Dinner-tables, 275, 276 
Doctors, their instructions to 

nurses, 10 ; their treatment of 

rheumatic and other cases, 

218 sgg. 
Dog-wood, 156 
Doyle, ' Dickie,' 74 
Dracocephtdum argumense, 174 
Dublin, Botanical Garden and 

'Kew'of, 161 
Ducks, cooking, 65 



Eastlake, Lady, 7 

Echeveria glauca, 47 

— metallica crispa, 46 

Echeverias, 46 ; derivation of the 
word, 86 

Education of girls, 17-20 

Education of young children, 
242 sqq. 

Eels, dressing, 64 

Eggs, preserving, 297, 298 

Elgin, Lord, 125 

Eliot, George, 308, 313, 343, 357 ; 
at Geneva, 373 ; on reticence, 
399, 400, 405 ; on the sadness 
of love, 412, 413 ; on intel- 
lectual effort in women, 425, 
426 



INDEX 



443 



Emerson, quotation from the 

Essays of, 434 
Endive, cooking, 44, 64, 65 ; 

growing, 135 
Engadine, the, episode at a ball 

in, 212 
Epiphyllzmi truncatiim, 171 
Erasmus, at Bdle, 378, 379; 

Eroude's lectures on, 378, 379 ; 

Holbein's portrait of, 378 
Eseallonia pterocladon, 160 
Eticalyptus citriodora, 171 
— gvnrm, 382 
EucrypMa pimnatifolia, 211 
Etigemia ugni, 178 
EulaUa Japonica, 59 
Eupatorium pv/rpwreum, 139 
Evphorbia splendens, 86 
Excitements of society, 425 



FALKENSTEm, establishment for 
the open-air treatment of 
phthisis at, 78, 79 

Eerns, 56, 90, 140, 205, 304 

Ficus repens, 171 

Eield, Mr. Michael (quoted), 420 

Figs, 35, 128 

Eire-bricks, blacldeading, 199 

Fireflies in Italy, 331 

Eire-screen, a Eossetti, 274, 275 

Fish, application of boracic acid 
to, 64 ; how to dress, 99 ; 
receipts for cooking, 213, 265 

Fish, fresh-water, to dress, 63, 64 

Flammarion, Gamille, 133 

Flat-hunting in London, 395, 397 

Flies, receipt for the destruction 
of, 199 

Florence ; Boboli Gardens, 128 ; 
literature, 308, 311, 313, 314- 
320, 338; the author's ex- 
periences, 328 S32-; Galileo's 
tower, 329 ; a view from a 
■window, 330; cypresses, 330, 
332; fireflies, 331; lemon- trees, 
332 ; the ' Cascine,' 333 ; lime- 
trees, 334; the Duomo, 334, 
360 ; destruction of old 
buildings, 335 ; convent of San 
Marco, 337; Mr. Howells's 



'Tuscan Cities,' 338; Certosa 
monastery, 339, 340; tomb 
of Cardinal Buonafede, 340 ; 
festival of Corpus Christi, 340- 
343 ; church of Santa Margh- 
arita, 340, 341 ; costumes and 
habits of the people, 343; 
Monte Senuaria, 344 ; villa 
gardens, 344, 345 ; viUa said to 
have been designed by Michael 
Angelo, 348 ; Villa Gamberaia, 
348; the aziola or night- 
owl, 349; AryScheffer's picture 
of 'PaoloandFrancesca,'350 ; 
Burmese goldfish, 351; pic- 
tures by Botticelli in the Pitti 
Gallery, 352, 353; fondness 
for the early Florentine 
masters, 354; cabinet of 
Cardinal Leopoldo del Medici, 
356; 'Eomola,' 356, 357; 
the great 'Eesta,' 359; fire- 
works, 360 ; Botanical Garden, 
361,362 ; Eiccardi Palace, 363 ; 
old Medicean room, 364 ; San 
Miniato, 364 ; the longing of 
the South for the influence of 
the North, 365 

Flower-glasses, 170 

Flower-tables, 95 

Food in relation to health, 216 
822. 

Foot-race in Berlin, 229, 230 

Forcemeat, 97 

Forcing-boxes, 165 

Forenia asiatica, 170 

Forsythia intermedia, 265 

— suspensa, 279 

France, dressing fresh-water fish 
in, 64 

Frankfort, visits to, 73-78, 381 ; 
Jewish cemetery at, 73 ; second- 
hand bookseller of, 92; the 
'Palmengarten' at, 381 

Franking letters, 119 

Freesias, 206 

Friendship between men and 
women, 417, 420 

Fritz Quihou, 177 

Frost, protection against, 140, 
263 



444 



MORE POT-POURRI 



Froude, J. A., his ' Life and 
Letters of Erasmus,' 378, 379 

Fruits, bottled, 299 

Fruit-trees, treatment of, 28, 29, 
129-132, 134; for hedgerows, 
50 

Fungi, 209 

Funkia siebolM, 28 

Furniture, buying, 200 ; polish- 
ing, 214 



Galeoa officinalis, 305 

Galileo, 329 ; his blindness, and 
the place of his exile at 
Florence, 329, 330 

Galtou, Sir F., 11 

Game, way to improve frozen, 181 

Gandayensis gladioli, 32 

Garden, kitchen, 28, 29 ; in 
SufEolk, 36 

Gardening, as a healthy occupa- 
tion, 165 ; its pleasures for the 
aged, 280 

Garrya ellvptica, 153 

Gas, acetylene, for house-lighting, 
144 

GWeau Savarin, 68, 69 

Gazanias, 96 

Geneva, 372 ; its associations 
with Byron, Shelley, George 
Eliot, and Professor Amiel, 
373 ; the Ariana Museum at, 
375 ; garden of M. Correvon 
near, 376 ; gardens round, 377 

Gemsta prcecox, 205 

Genistas, 178 

' Gentlewoman,' the (1864), 45, 
59-62, 98 

Geraniums, sweet-scented, 30, 
166, 172 ; winter preservation 
of, 47 ; ' New Life,' 132 ; 
hardening, 263 

Gerarde (quoted), 32 

Germany, cooking in, 61, 98 ; a 
visit to, 69-83 ; heating rooms 
in, 70, 71 ; over-heated rail- 
way carriages in, 82 

Girls : training, 12 ; indepen- 
dence, 13, 14; education, 17- 
20 ; reading, 19, 20 ; relations 



with mothers, 399, 401, 403 
sgj. ; dangers of reticence, 399, 

400 ; their need of sympathy, 

401 sjg. ; training in conversa- 
tion, 404, 405 ; the cultivation 
of happiness, 405 ; kissing, 
409 ; first thoughts of marriage, 
410; their varied views of 
love, 411 ; platonic affection 
with men, 417 ; not understood 
after marriage, 418 ; the ques- 
tion of love in accepting a 
husband, 421; 'skill in wait- 
ing,' 422 ; constancy, 422 ; 
intellectual effort, 423, 424; 
the desire for admiration and 
notoriety, 428; 'marrying for 
money,' 429 ; the growth of 
experience, and the hopeful- 
ness of the future, 434, 435 ; 
the difficulty of laying down 
rules for conduct, 435 

Gladstone, Mr., on travelling, 
322 ; his Italian translation of 
Cowper's hymn, ' Hark, my 
soul,' 326 

Gloire de Lorraine, 161, 205 

Gloria Mundi, 177 

Goethe (quoted), 13, 423, 424; 
his house at Frankfort, 74, 75 ; 
sayings of, 75 ; as an artist, 

75, 76 ; Tischbein's picture of, 

76, 77 ; on letters, 105 
Goldfish, Burmese, 351 

' Good King Henry,' 293 

Gooseberries, 129 

Gorse, for rooms, 300 

Governesses, 17 

Grasses, Japanese, 59 

Green, John Kiohard, work on 

Italy by, 318 
Greenhouse, plants for, 87-92, 

165, 169-171, 262, 383; 

arrangement of, 89, 90, 132 ; 

glass of, 133, 134 ; heating, 165 
Greville, Charles, his memoir of 

the author's father, 112-114 
Grouse, sauce for, 43 ; cooking, 

62 
Growing old, 432-434, 435 
Grumbling of children, 12, 13 



INDEX 



445 



' Guardian,' the, 29 
Gypsophila prostrata, 139, 167 

Ball, Bishop, 435 

Hallam, Arthur, Mr. Gladstone's 
account of, 321, 322 

HamameUs japonica, 211 

Hampton Court, covered walk at, 
128 

Hanbury, Commendatore, 260 

Happiness, the cultivation of, 405 

Hare, Augustus 3. C, his books 
on Italy, 308, 323, 355, 364 

Health, 9, 10 ; hints on, 216 sjg. 

Hearths, marble, preferable to 
tiled, 397 

Heaths, 128, 178 

Heine, 74 

Heliotrope, 90, 179 

Hellebores, 161 

JSemerocallis fulva, 377 

Henry Jacobi Pelargonium, 90 

Hepaticas, 48, 49 

Herb-seasoning, 45 

Herbert, William (quoted), 86 

Heredity, 11 

Hernandez, physician to Philip 
II., 31 

Sesperii tristis, 288 

Hess, Dr. Karl, 79 

Holbein, portrait of Erasmus by, 
878 

Solboellia latifolia, 262 

Holland, Mrs., quotation from 

letters by, 420 
. HoUy, for decorating,. 143, 144 ; 
Southey's lines on, 300 

Hollyhocks, mixture for destroy- 
ing blight on, 383 

Home, absence from, 21 ; con- 
versation in the, 404 

Home-life, 12, 13, 399 522- 

Honey, 267 

Honeysuckle, 128 

Hops, 293 

Hornbeam, the 128 ; weeping, 
129 

' Hortus Eystetteusis,' title of 
old book on flowers, 93 

' Hotch-potch,' 4 



House, the, good management in, 

197-199 
Howells, W. D., on Florence, 338 
Hugo, Victor (quoted), 33 
Humboldt, Baron, on the amount 

of sleep necessary, 193 
Humea elegans, 383 
Hyacinths, 48, 138, 161,206, 252 
Hydrangeas, 86, 37, 361, 362 
Hypocrisy, necessity of some 

kinds of, 400 



Ibeeis sempervirens, 168 
Ice-plant, 88, 89 
Imantophyllums, 95, 207, 212 
Independence in boys and girls, 

13, 15, 16 
Indiarubber plants, 169 
Individuality in art, 380, 381 
Insects, in gardens, 33, 34 ; dread 

of, 51 
Ireland in January, 153 ; soil and 

trees of, 154-157 ; troubles of, 

155 ; co-operative movement 

in, 160 
Irisfcetidissima, 59, 164, 172 

— kcsmpferi, 173, 255 

— psevdaeorus, 361 

— reticulata, 205 

— stylosa, 207 

— Susiana, 201, 202 

Irises, 59, 161, 207, 255 ; bloom- 
ing time of, 255 

Italy, art in, 310 sgj. ; travelling 
in, 322, 324, 325 ; survival of 
paganism in, 342 [See also 
Florence) 

Ivy, for rockeries, 56 ; 138 ; grow- 
ing on trees, 155 ; Japanese, 363 

Izias, 175 



James, Mr. Henry, on illusions, 

422 
Jameson, Mrs., 92; works on 

Italian art by, 311 sqq. 
Jams, 299 
Jasmine, yellow, 90 
Jasminwm, nudiflorum, 138, 153, 

160 



446 



MORE POT-POURRI 



Jekyll, Miss, book on gardening 
by, 208 

Jelly, blackberry, 45 ; Norwegian 
fruit, 391 

Jesse, Edward, book on Natural 
History by, 52 

Jeune, Lady, her views on mar- 
riage, 407, 408 

Jews, hatred on the Continent of, 
73, 74 ; cemetery at Frankfort 
for, 73, 74 ; meat eaten by, 79 

Johnson, Dr., quarrelling with 
his bride on the way to church, 
418 

Jowett, Dr., on friendship be- 
tween men and women, 420, 
421 ; on success in hfe, 422, 
423 ; on useless learning, 424, 
425 

Jugs, tin, rusting of, 199 



Kale, ' thousand-headed,' 181 
Kaulfussia amelloides, 139 
Kerria japonica, 133 
Khayyam, Omar, 7 
Kindergarten system, 244 
Kingfisher, the, 22 
Kissing, 409 

Kitchen-garden, 28, 29 ; seeds 
for, 163-165 



Label, rockery, 265 

Lachenalia aurea, 206 

Lachenalias, 206 

Lake villages, curiosities from, 
369 

Lamb, Lady Caroline, 70 

Lamp-wicks, their smoking pre- 
vented, 214 

Larders, coverings for, 198 

Larkspurs, 347 

Laurestinus, 166 

Lavender, 58 

Lawler, Mr. Wilham, 160 

Learning, useless, 424, 425 

Lecky, Mr. (quoted), 419 

Leeks, 180 

Lemon-trees, leaves of, 286, 287 ; 
scent in Italy from, 332 



Lemons, usefulness of, 267 
Lentils, 149, 390 
Letter-writing, good, 105 
Letters of the author's parents, 
103, 106-112 ; of Mary Woll- 
stonecraft, 104 ; franking, 119 
Lettuces, 266, 267 
Lewes, G. H., on Goethe as an 

artist, 75, 76 
Libonia floribunda, 252 
Lighting country houses, 144 
Ligustrwm sinense, 378 
Lilacma grandiflora, 173 
LUacs, 96, 181, 211, 252 
Lilies, 94, 175, 212, 362 ; water, 

393 
Lilium candidum, 362 

— giganteum, 173 
■ — speciosum, 212 

— testaceum, 175 

Lily, belladonna, 24 ; Japanese, 
24, 25 ; Chinese, 133 ; Day, 377 
Lime-trees of Florence, 334 
Iiinaria aureo-purpurea, 167 

— bipartita, 167 

— repens alba, 173 

— reticulata, 167 

LinnsBus, 159 ; flower of, 876, 
377 

Literature, educational, 17, 19 

Liver of chickens, 151 

London: shops at Christmas- 
time, 140 ; destruction of old 
buildings, 336 ; flat-hunting in, 
395 

Loneliness, 100, 147 

Lonicera fragrantissima, 161 

Loudon, Mrs., the 'Amateur 
Gardener ' by, 4 ; her ' Ladies' 
Flower Garden,' 31, 89; her 
' Arboretum etFruticetum,' 129 

Lcnis XIII., copyright given by, 
93 

Love, Professor Max Miiller on, 
102, 103 ; gWs' views of, 411 ; 
poets' thoughts on, 411-413, 
415, 416 ; Platonic, 417 ; mis- 
takes of, 419 ; its development 
into perfect friendship, 420 ; its 
growth after marriage, 428 

Love-in-the-mist, 167 



INDEX 



447 



Love-letters of Edward Villiers, 
103, 106-112; of the Brown- 
ings, 426 
Lungwort, 279 
Luther, house where he stayed, 

at Frankfort, 75 
Luxury, Bagehot on, 231 
Lygopetalwm inacTca/iji, 132 
Lyndoch, Lord, portrait of, 136 



Maghiavelli, Mr. J. Morley's 
lecture on, 319, 320 

Magnolia grandAflora, 36 

Maidenhair, 90 • 

Main, river, 69 

Malet, Lucas, on love, 413, 414 ; 
418 

MaUoot, Mr., on love, 414 

Malmesbury, Lady, her views on 
marriage, 407, 408 

Ma/ndorla, almond-shaped glory, 
92 

Mangold wurzel, 293 

Manners, 12, 13 

Manuring, 159, 160 

Maples, Japanese, 93, 382 ; 
variegated, 362, 382 

Marigold, alleged origin of the 
name of, 304 

Marketing, 60 

Marlowe (quoted), 53 

Marriage : of the old with the 
young, 84 ; four articles on 
the subject by Miss Marie 
Corelli, Lady Jeune, Mrs. 
Steel, and Lady Malmesbury, 
407 S22., 480 ; misunderstand- 
ings between husband and 
wife, 416, 418, 419; develop- 
ment of a noble friendship 
after marriage, 420 ; the 
question of love in accepting a 
husband, 421 ; the chances of 
marriage for a vfoman after 
thirty, 427 ; ' Punch's ' advice; 
427 : marriage out of gratitude, 
427; French customs, 428 
love after marriage, 428 
'marrying for money,' 429 
taking the initiative, 430 



confidential disclosures of past 

events, 431 
Marvels of Peru, 47 
Matthiola bicornis, 288 
Maund, B., author of the 

'Botanic Garden ' and the 

' Botanist,' 86, 164, 270 
Meadow-sweet, 382 
Medici, Leopoldo dei, cabinet of, 

356 
Meredith, Mr. George (quoted), 

404 
Meredith, Owen (quoted), 39, 

127, 416, 436 
Mesembrianthemums, 88 
Michaelmas Daisies, 87, 91 
Michauxia canvpcmuhides, 24, 

173 
— tchinatcliewii, 24 
Milk, skimmed, excellence of, 

159; sterilised, 237; boiling, 

237 sc[q. 
Miller, Philip, the ' prince of 

gardeners,' 395 
Milner, G., book on 'Country 

Pleasures ' by, 52-55 
Milton, works of, 108, 109; his 

visit to Galileo, 329 ; his 

allusions to Galileo in 'Para- 
dise Lost,' 329 ; poem by Mr. 

Stephen Phillips to, 329 
Mimosa, 206 
Mincemeat, 98 
Mistletoe, 138 
Mistresses and servants, relations 

between, 184-196 
Mixtures for destroying blight, 

383 
' Modern Marriage Market, The,' 

407 
Montbretias, 59, 172 
Moonlight, walking by, 145 
Moore, Thomas, lines on Love 

by, 411 ; 435 
Morseas, 262 
Morel, the, 209 
Morelli, Giovanni, ' Italian 

Painters ' by, 78 
Morley, Mr. John, lecture on 

Machiavelli, 319, 320 
Moro, Ludovico il, 35 



448 



MORE POT-POURRI 



Mothers, training and self- 
cultivation of, 242 sqg[. ; their 
relations with daughters, 399 
sqq., 425 

Mountain Ash, 128 

Mulberries, 35, 36 

Miiller, Professor Max (quoted), 
102, 103, 193, 298 

Mushrooms, growing, 134, 136, 
179 ; cooking, 266 

Mustard and cress, 263 

Muther, Bichard, 'History of 
Modern Painting ' by, 72 

Mutton cutlets k la Busse, 182, 
183 



Napoleon III. at the Villa 

Gamberaia, 348 
Narcissus, 47, 48, 133 
Natural history, its attractions 

for young people, 51, 52 ; books 

on, 201, 281, 300 
Nelson, Lord, 145 
Nemesia strumosa, 22, 23, 58, 

167, 302 
Neiphrodium menibranifolium, 

205 
Nesbit, E., child's song by, 251 

' New Education,' the, 241 sgq. 
Newman, Cardinal, on the 

mystical meaning of a garden, 

348 
Nicotiana affims, 288, 301 
Night- flowering plants, 288 
Night-owl, or asiola, 349 
Nurses, sick, 10, 236 ; children's, 

236 
Nursing children, hints on, 233 

sgq. 



O'CoNNOB, Mr. T. P., 115 
Odontoglossum alexandra, 206 

— piciuratum, 95 

— Bossii major, 254 
(Enothera odorata, 288 
Oil, olive, 390 

Old, growing, 432-434, 435 
Old age, 146, 147, 432, 433 



Oleanders, 280, 281, 348, 364 
Oliphant, Mrs., ' The Makers of 

Florence ' by, 316 
Ollapodrida, 4 
Ompkalodes luoilia, 167 
Onions, as a tonic, 267 ; sowing, 

294 ; cooking, 299 
Optimism, 432 
Orchids, 95, 132, 206, 254 
Origanum dictammis, 26 

— hybridum, 26 
Ormthogalum pyramidale, 305 
Orobanche pruinosa, 832 
Ouida, her allusions to Galileo's 

tower, 329, 330; on fireflies, 
331 ; her description of the 
church of Santa Margharita, 
Florence, 340, 841 
Oxalis acetosella, 169 

— bowiei, 86 

— floribunda, 57 
Oxalis, white, 169 

Oxford, Botanic Gardens at, 
394 



Pjeosia corallina, 172, 173 
Paint, cleaning, 214; for stairs, 

398 
Painters, Italian, works on, 78, 

310 sqg. 
Paintings, by Arnold Boecklin, 

71-73; in the Staedel Art 

Institute, 70-78 
Pall Mall Gazette, article on 

child-training in, 247-251 
Pancretiumfragrans, 29 
Pancretiums, 29, 90 
Parents, duties of, 12-20 
Paris, schools in, 120, 123-125 
Paroohetus communis, 167 
Parsnips, cooking, 182 
Partridges, cooking, 62 
Passion-flower, 90 ; its symbolical 

meaning, 304 
Pater, Walter, 313, 317, 342 
Patmore, Coventry, lines ou the 

difficulty of understanding 

women by, 416 
Peach-trees, 135 
Peas, sweet, 36, 167, 255 ; green. 



INDEX 



449 



168, 209; everlaBting, 285; 
' mange-tout,' 301 

Pelargomwm, 132 ; Prince of 
Orange, 166, 172, 301 

Pergolas, 128 

Periwinkle, 56 

Pernettyas, 56 

Phacelia canvpanularia, 167 

Pheasant, stuffed with wood- 
cocks, 97, 98 

Phillips, Mr. Claude, quotation 
from his article on the Millais 
exhibition, 381 

Phillips, Mr. Stephen, poem to 
Milton blind by, 329 ; 362 

Phloxes, 23, 24, 285 

Phormium tenax, 139 

Phthisis, open-air treatment of, 
78,79 

Phylloxera, mixture for destroy- 
ing, 383 

' Pickwick,' 119 

Piedmontese, the, chief food of, 
260, 261 

Pigeons, cooking, 62 

Pinks, ' Mrs. Simpkin,' 87 

Firms azistriaca, 49 

Pittosporum tobira, 279 

Plain-speaking, 12, 13 

Plants, wild, 164 

Platyceriums, 90 

Platyoodons, 174 

Plumbago capensis, 27, 36, 90 

— rosea, 59 

Poems quoted or alluded to : 
'Bethia Hardaore's' 'I pray 
to fail,' 7 ; Watson's ' Nay, bid 
me not my cares to leave,' 21 ; 
Burns's ' To a Louse,' 21 ; 
Victor Hugo's ' La pauvre 
fleur,' &e., 33; Owen Mere- 
dith's 'Luoile,' 39; 'How 
much is lost ' &o., 50 ; Mar- 
lowe's ' Passionate Shepherd,' 
53 ; ' Slight, to be crush'd with 
a tap,' &e., 55; Sydney 
Smith's ' Salad,' 67 ; lines by 
Lady CarolineLamb on Byron, 
70; lines by 'Bethia Hard- 
acre,' 71 ; ' Vous et Moi,' by 
Comtesse de Castellane, 88 ; 



Cowper on a greenhouse, 88; 
' It is not sad to turn the face 
towards home,' 100; from 
' lonica,' 100, 101 ; sonnet by 
Mr. Aubrey de Yere, 102 ; ' If 
I had known,' by Christian 
Eeed, 116; Owen Meredith's 
allusion to the rose of October, 
127 ; ' The old friends,' 146 ; 
' Laugh, and the world laughs 
with you,' 148 ; song of ' Bethia 
Hardaore's,' 148; translation 
from the German, 153 ; ' Often 
I wish that I might be ' &c., 
156 ; Mr. W. Lawler's lines 
on Ireland, 160 ; ' Snowdrop 
Time,' 169 ; ' Sympathy,' 196 ; 
on ' Solitude,' 206 ; sonnet by 
Thomson, 209 ; Wordsworth 
on the Celandine, 210 ; epitaph, 
219 ; ' The Angel that presided 
o'er my birth,' 242; Mrs. 
Deamer's poem on a child's 
experience, 243 ; child's song 
by E. Nesbit, 251; 'Bethia 
Hardaore's ' ' Mower Chain,' 
258 ; lines on flowers closing 
at night, 271 ; Mr. Stephen 
Phillips's lines on a rain- 
shower, 278; S. Whiting's 
'Invitation,' 282; Southey's 
allusion to the holly-tree, 300 ; 
Mr. Gladstone's Italian trans- 
lation of Cowper's ' Hark, my 
soul,' 326; Mr. Stephen 
Phillips's poem to Milton blind, 
329 ; De Musset's ' J'ai perdu 
ma force et ma vie,' 334 ; 
Watson's allusion to church 
spires, 336 ; Shelley's ' Aziola,' 
349 ; sonnet by ' M. B.' on 
Paolo and Francesca, 350 ; 
verses by Byron applicable to 
the death of Burne- Jones, 358 ; 
Mrs. Browning's verses on 
the reciprocal needs between 
North and South Europe, 365 ; 
lines by M. Correvon, 376 ; 
Plorian'spoem on 'Euth,'407 ; 
lines from a play by Webster, 
408 ; lines by Moore on love, 

G G 



45° 



MORE POT-POURRI 



411 ; definition of love by Mr. 
Austin, 412 ; lines on the 
sadness of love, by a French- 
woman, 412 ; verses by George 
Eliot, 412, 413 ; sonnet by Mrs. 
Browning, 413 ; Tennyson's 
lines on the test of love, 413 ; 
sonnets by Mr. Wilfred Blunt, 
415 ; lines by Coventry Pat- 
more, 416 ; verses by Owen 
Meredith,416,417; 'Flagellum 
Stultorum ' quoted, 417 ; Mr. 
Michael Field's lines on love, 
420 ; lines on disappointed 
hopes, 426; 'The Way of 
Man,' 430 ; quotation from 
Thomas Moore, 435 ; some of 
the last verses written by Owen 
Meredith, 436 

Poinsettia pulcherrima, 183 

Polenta, 260, 261 

Polish, for furniture, 214 ; for 
brown boots, 214 

PoUenation, 25 

Polygonaium multiflorum, 207, 
279 

Pclygonum leichilini, 27 

— moUe, 27 

— - sachaUnense, 27 
Polygonums, 26 

Poplar, balsam-bearing, 274 
Poppies, 167, 255, 304 ; packing, 

805 
Poppy, Oriental, 94 
Potatoes, warming-up, 98 ; 131 ; 

nourishing properties of, 159 ; 

cooking, 182, 307 ; various 

kinds of, 294 
' Pot-pourri' meaning of, 3, 4 
Poulet a I'Indienne, 390, 391 

— 4 la Marengo, 66 

— tt la Valencienne, 212 
Poultry, diseases of, 295 ; man- 
agement of, 296, 297 

Present-giving at anniversaries, 

140-148 
Primrose, Cape, 291 
Primula farinosa, 279 
Privet, golden, 98 ; common 96 ; 

Ligustrum sinense, 378 
Processions, 343 



Pruning, 29, 134 

Prunua pissardi, 57, 169, 204, 

209, 279 
Psalm LXVIII., illustration of 

passage in, 30 
Pudding, fried (German), 08; 

chocolate, 390 
Pulmonaria, 253 
Pumpkins, receipt for cooking, 

42 ; French, 149 ; soup of, 

149 
Purfee, of vegetables, 43 ; of 

carrots, 65, 66 
Purslane, cooking, 44, 45, 294 
Pyrola, 265 
Pyrus japonica, 204 



Quick, E. H., ' Essays on Educa- 
tional Eeformers,' by, 242 



EAILWAY-TEAVELI.rNO, 321, 322, 

366 ; companions in, 368 
Eain-shower, a, poem by Mr. S. 

Phillips on, 278 
Eambler, crimson, 87 
Eaphael, his portrait of himself, 

78 
Eea, Miss Hope, 92 
Eeading for girls, the question of, 

19,20 
Eeceipts, 39-45, 59-69, 96-100, 

181-188, 212-215, 265-26S, 

306-307, 888-392 
Eembrandt, head of, painted by 

himself, 355 
Eeminiscences of boyhood, 118- 

127 
Eeticence in girls, dangers of, 

401, 402 
Eeynolds, Sir Joshua, ' Dis- 
courses ' by, 308-310 
Eheumatism, cures for, 218 sjg. 
Ehine, the, past and present 

appearance of, 69 ; Turner's 

sketches of, 83 
Ehododendron, 28 
Rhododendron jasminiflonim, 

171 
Khone, the, colour of, 374, 375 



INDEX 



451 



Ehubarb, cooking, 266 ; leaves of, 
293 

Biccardi Palace, the, 363 

Bisotto k la Milanaise, 306 

Biviera, the, gardens of, 259, 260 

Eobinson, W., his ' English 
Flower Garden,' 26 

Eochester, Dean of, 87 

Eockeries, 26, 27, 55, 56 

Bod, M. Edouard, bis criticism 
of Boeeklin, 380 

Borne, violets in the EngUsh 
cemetery at, 258 

Bosemary, 57, 287 

Eoses, mulching, 47 ; ' Ma Capu- 
eine,' 87 ; Lamarque, 87 ; 
Niphetos, 90, 153 ; lists of, 
139, 203 ; climbing, 254 

EoBsetti, Dante Gabriel, 7, 274 

Eoundell, Mrs., cookery book by, 
9, 64, 215 

Bousseau, and his house at 
Chamb^ri, 369 

Eoyal Horticultural Society, 286 

Eue, 179 

BtipeUa juncea, 361 

Bush, or Italian broom, 344 

Buskin, Mr., on the vtork of 
Burne-Jones, 859 ; on modern 
Italian sculpture, 365 ; his 
description of landscape paint- 
ing, 379, 380; on cloud effects, 
395, 396 

Bussell, Lord John, his definition 
of a proverb, 75 



Salad, grouse, 43, 44 ; celeriac, 

66 ; Sydney Smith's recipe for, 

67 ; winter, 96, 149, 180, 266 ; 
Barbe-de-Capucin, 135 ; dan- 
delion, 211 

Salpiglossis, 167 

Salsifies, 57 

Samphire, 29 

Santolina, 179 

Sauce, bread, 40, 41 ; for grouse, 

43 
Savonarola at San Marco, 337 
Saxifraga burseriana, 271 
— oppodtifolia, 271 



Saxifraga sancta, 271 

Scheffer, Ary, his picture of 
' Paolo and Francesca,' 350 

Schisopetalwm walkeri, 288 

School-life, influence of, 13, 16 

Schools in Paris, 120, 123-125 

Schopenhauer, 2 

Soillas, 168, 206 

Scott, Lives of the Novelists 
by. 111 

Sea, the, description of, 53-55 

Sea-kale, 180 

Sedan chairs, 119 

Sedum spectabile, 33 

Seeds, for kitchen-garden, 163- 
165; flower, 167, 290, 291, 
292 

Self-sacrifice, 14, 15 

Selfishness of sorrow, 101 

Servants, difficulty of getting, 
185, 186; characters of, 186, 
187 ; training of, 188 ; Begistry 
Offices for, 188, 189 ; difficulties 
of their position, 190, 191 ; 
their prejudices and customs, 
192 ; children's, 194 ; sympathy 
with, 194, 195 ; effect of Board 
Schools on, 195, 196 

Seville, description of a garden 
in, 346 

Shelley, his poem on the Aziola, 
349; his house at Geneva, 
373 ; quoted, 422 

Shops of London at Christmas 
time, 140 

Shrubs, 160, 161, 166, 176, 204, 
211, 265, 279 

Slaughterhouses, public, 79, 80 

Sleep, excessive amount of, 193 

Sloane, Sir Hans, and the Chel- 
sea Physio Garden, 394 

Smelling, the art of, 287, 288 

Smilax, 90 

Smith, Sir 3. E. (quoted), 85 

Smith, Sydney, his poetical 
recipe for salad, 67 ; on over- 
eating, 225 ; quoted, 434 

Snowdrops, 169 ; poem on, 169 
Society, excitements of, 425 
Solanum glaucum, 301 

— jasminoides, 28 

qg2 



452 



MORE POT-POURRI 



Sorrel, soup of, 63 ; two kinds of, 

294 ; pur6e of, 307 
Sorrow, selfishness of, 101 ; self- 
consciousness of, 115 ; its 
salutary effect upon character, 
426 
Souchet, water, receipt for, 213 
oup, consommA, 8 ; chervil, 63 
sorrel, 63 ; pumpkin 149 ; 
vegetable marrow, 149 
Spaghetti, to cook, BOG 
Sparaxis pulcherrima, 173 
Sparmatia africana, 170 
' Spectator,' the, 7, 12, 30 
Sphagnum, 58 

Spiders and their webs, 51, 52 
Spinach, 293, 294 ; cooking, 307 
Spircsa confusa, 211, 252 

— thunbergi, 279 

— ulmaria, 382 

Spring, flowers of, poem on, 258 
Staedel Art Institute, 76-78 
Stael, Madame de, 110 
Stains, fruit, to remove, 214 
Stairs, carpet for, 398 ; paint for, 

398 
Stapkylea colchica, 252 
Statice latifolia, 172 
Stauntonia latifolia, 262 
Staveley, E. F., book on spiders 

by, 52 
Steel, Mrs., her views on 

marriage, 407, 410 
Stevenson, E. L., a saying of his 

on the training of boys, 12 
Stokesia cyanea, 91 
Stonecrop, 33 
Stoves, heating, for rooms, 70, 

71 ; for greenhouses, 165 
Strawberries, Alpine, 384-387; 

American way of growing, 387, 

388 
Style, literary, 2 
Stylosa alba, 161 

— speciosa, 161 

Success in life. Dr. Jowett on, 

422, 423 
Suffolk, a garden in, 36, 37 , 
Swainsonia, 174, 306 
Swtee-peas, 167, 255 
Swift, and his headaches, 267 



Symonds, John Addington,^316, 

317 
Sympathy, poem on, 196 



Table decoration, 95, 160, 180, 

388 
Tables for large or small dinner- 
parties, 275, 276 
Tai-ragon, 149, 180 
Tart, open apple, 183 
Taunus mountains, 70, 71 
Taxjis fastigiata, 154 
Taylor, Sir Henry, his views on 

marriage, 408 ; quoted, 434 
Tea-drinking, 227, 228 
Tea-leaves for sweeping carpets, 

199 
Tea-roses, ' Ma Capucine,' 87 ; 

127 ; list of, 139 ; 211 
Tecophylcea cyano, 264 
Teeth-cleaning of children, 244 
Tennyson, Lord, lines on the 

test of love by, 413 
Thompson, Mr. (of Ipswich), 

seeds sold by, 163 
Thome, Sir Bichard Thome, on 

raw milk, 237 sqq. 
Thrushes, 22, 94 
Tigridias, 31, 32, 173 
Tiles, decorated, 281 
Timbale Napolitaine, 388, 389 
Tischbein, picture of Goethe by, 

76,77 
Tolstoi, his description of his 

mother's death-bed, 115, 116 
Tomatoes, said to cause cancer, 

267 ; as an aperient, 267 
Tosti, song by, 83 
Tours, 120-123 
Trachelospemium jasmiiwides, 

361 
Tradescantias, 170 
Traditions of flowers, 303, 304 
Trees in Ireland, 155 
T-ncyrtis hirta, 24, 25 
TropcBolum speciosum, 58, 209 
Tuberculosis, Association for the 

Prevention of, 80; its infectious 

character, 80, 81, 82 ; from raw 

milk, 237 Sfiq. 



INDEX 



453 



Tubs for garden purposes, 277 

Tulipa greigi, 175 

— kaufmanniana, 175 

Tulips, 48, 301, 302 

Turbot & la Portugaise, 265 

Turkeys, cooking, 63, 150, 151 

Turner, J. M. W., sketches of 

the Ehine by, 83 
Tussilago Coltsfoot, 254, 255 
Tussilago fragrans, 164, 179 
Tyndall, Professor, on the infec- 
tiousness of consumption, 81 



Utensils, cooking, 61 



Vaccination, 81, 235 
Vallota purpurea, 25, 26 
Vaneouveria hexandra, ni 
Varnish for plaster casts, 275 
Vegetable-marrow, receipt for 

cooking, 41, 42 ; soup, 149 
Vegetarianism, 216 sqq. 
Verbenas, 171, 172, 252, 301 
Vere, Mr. Aubrey de (quoted), 

102 
Villages, lake, curiosities from, 

369 
Villiers, Edward, love-letters, 

marriage, death, and character 

of, 103, 105-114 
Vilmorin, M., 384 
Vine, claret-eoloured, 29 ; phyl- 
loxera on, 383 
Viola odorata, 257, 258, 347 
Violets, Neapolitan, 96 ; Czar, 

347 
Virginia creeper, 362, 363 
Volaille, to roast a, 150 



Wallace, Dr., author of a book 

on lilies, 94 
Wallflowers, 253, 304 
Walls, garden, flower-boxes for, 

38 
— whitewashed, 398 
Walther, Dr., 79 
War, spirit of, 30 
Ware, Messrs., catalogue of, 259 
Water-mills, 285, 286 
Watercress, cultivation of, 57, 

180, 282, 283 
Watering of gardens, 38 
Watson, Mr. William (quoted), 

21, 336 
Watsonia ma/rginata, 173 
Wedding-presents, 143 
WilUngton, Duke of, portrait of, 

136 
Wesley, John, 153 
Westminster Gazette, article on 

tulips in, 301 
Whitewash on walls, 398 
Willow, the, 156 

Witloof, or Large Brussels Chi- 
cory, 135 
WoUstonecraft, Mary, her letters 

to Imlay, 104 
Women, see Marriage, Love, 

Girls, &o. 
Woodcocks, 97 
Wordsworth, poetry of, 110 ; 

quoted, 210 



Tew, the, 154 



ZAuscHf/Esij Califomica, 23 
Zucclie, 165, 827 



PRIN'l'ED BY 

sporriswooDa axjj co., NKW-s'mKET squabs 

LONDON 



BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 

TWENTIETH EDITION. Large Crown 8vo. Js. 6d. 

Pot=pourri from a Surrey 
Garden. 

With an Appendix by LADY CONSTANCE LVTTON. 



Dean HOLE* in an article upon the work in the Nineteenth Century, says : — 
* There is not time for further enjoyment of this sweet, spicy ' ' Pot-pourri " ; no space for 
further extracts from this clever and comprehensive book ; only for two more earnest 
words to the reader— .5«y it.^ 

The SPECTATOR.—* Space fails to show the excellence in every department o( 
Mrs. Earle's practical advice ;_ but no woman who loves her house, her garden, and her 
children should fail to read this book.' 

The GUARDIAN. — 'It is impossible to read a page of this book without being 
struck by its vigorous freshness, its helpfulness, and its human kindliness.' 

The NATIONAL REVIEW.—' Will be the delight of all who take an intelligent 
interest in their garden, their kitchen, or their children, for it is brimming over with frank 
and shrewd and genial information.' 

The PALL MALL GAZETTE.— 'A charming volume, full of usehil hints on 
gardening, cooking, and domestic economy in general, written with all the grace of a 
refined and cultured gentlewoman. . . . The appendix on the Japanese method of arranging 
flowers, by Lady Constance Lytton, is also worth reading.' 

The TIMES. — ' Intelligent readers of almost any age, especially if they are con- 
cerned in the management of a country household, will find these pages throughout both 
suggestive and amusing.' 

The WORLD, — ' Pot-pourri indeed, fresh, fragrant and wholesome. . . . The 
garden chapters are truly delightful. Mrs. Earle's knowledge of her subject is remarkable ; 
she revels in ever^ detail connected with her plants, and as she tells us of them month by 
month, her narrative has the charm which comes of sympathetic insight and true love.' 

PUNCH.—' Mrs. Earle pleasantly talks of a multitude of things. . . . The Surrey- 
garden is comparatively small in area. It cannot take us all in to enjoy companionship 
of its charming custodian. Happily, here is the hook, through which ripples the low 
voice of a gracious-mannered gentlewoman, who knows most things about house and 
garden, and modestly shares with the stranger at her gate the garnered fruit of long 
experience.' 

The DAILY TELEGRAPH.— 'There is an infinite quantity of useful information, 
as well as a vast amount of common sense, in Mrs. C. W. Earle's collection of essays, 
which deal exhaustively and entertainingly with horticulture, education, and cookery.' 

The MANCHESTER GUARDIAN.— 'For the amateur gardener it is full of 
excellent instruction. . . .^ Mrs. Earle has, in short, endowed the literature of the garden 
with a wholesome and delightful book.' 

The SCOTSMAN.— * The ingredients are both seasonable and well seasoned, and 
cunningly combined. . .' . Of solid information there is a goodly supply ; and Mrs. Earle's 
memory seems as rarely at fault as her taste.' 

The LIVERPOOL DAILY POST.— * A charming hook, which perhaps may best 
be described as womanly. . . . All garden lovers will do well to find a corner on their 
shelves for her book.' 

The GLOBE. — 'Full of interesting notes on flowers, fruits, and vegetables, with 
here and there some culinary notes which suggest the expert. A few additional chapters 
treat discursively of various domestic matters.' 

The BRITISH REVIEW.—' Gardening is the backbone of the book ; but even in 
the first twelve chapters, each of which takes its name from a month, there are many 
useful hints thrown in for the cook and the housewife. Later on, Mrs. Earle attacks the 
more_ complex problems of our sons and daughters, and adds chapters on furnishing and 
the sick-room.* 

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place, S.W. 



SMITH, ELDER, & CO/S NEW BOOKS. 

WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY GEORG BRANDES. 
In 2 vols. With two Portraits of the Author. Large crown 8vo, sis. 

MEMOIRS OF A REVOLUTIONIST. 

By PRINCE KROPOTKIN. 

ACADjEMV.—' We have here more than fine materia s ; we have them in artistic 
fusion, adorned and recommended by a moderate style,and by urbane and wise reflections 
To read Kropotkin's life is to ascend to the roof of our age and take in_ the view on a 
clear and genial day. . . . We wish we could indicate one<tenth of the significance and 
poignant interest of these Memoirs.' 

Illustrated Library. Edition of Sidney Lee's Life of Shakespeare. 

In I vol. medium 8vo. profusely illustrated with Photogravures, Facsimiles, 
Topographical Views, &c., i6s. 

THE LIFE OF WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE. 

By SIDNEY LEE. 

Editor of * The Dictionary of National Biography.' 

*»* Also the FOURTH EDITION in Cheaper Form, with Illustrations, or. 8vo. yj. 6ii. 

THE SCARLET HERRING, and other Stories. By His Honour Judge 

Edward Abbott Parry, Author of ' Katawampus : its Treatment and Cure," 

* Butter-Scotia,' &c. With Illustrations by Athelstan Rusden. Small 4to. 6s. 

MANCHESTER EVENING CHRONICLE.—' Ow of those charming fairy 

books that children will treasure^ read and re-read, and grown-up people will take a 

delight in relating the stories to little ones. It is profusely and prettily illustrated.' 

THE LIFE OF MADAME DE LONGUEVILLE (ANNE GENE- 

VIEVEDE BOURBON). By Mrs. Alfred Cock. With Portrait. Cr.8vo.7j.6rf. 
THE BACKWATER OF LIFE ; or, Essays of a Literary Veteran. By 
the late James Payn. With a Portrait, and a Memoir by Leslis Stephen. 
Crown 8vo. 6s. 

POETICAL WORKS OF ROBERT BRIDGES. Vol. 2. Contents : 

Shorter Poems ; New Poems ; Notes. Small post 8vo. 6j. 

COLLECTIONS AND RECOLLECTIONS. By 'One who has 

Kept a Diary.' REVISED, ENLARGED, and CHEAPER EDITION. 
With Frontispiece. Large crown Bvo. js. 6d, 

UNWRITTEN LAWS AND IDEALS. Edited by E. H. Pitcairn. 

Large crown 8vo. 7s, 6tL 
Contents :— AMBASSADORS. By the Rig-ht Hon. Sir EDWARD Malet. G.C.B.— THE 
HOUSE OF LORDS. By LORD MONKSWELL, L.C.C— THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. By Sir 
REGINALD PALGRAVE. K.C.B.— THE ROYAL NAVY. By Rear-Adnutal Sir C. C. PENROSE 
Fitzgerald, R.N.— the British army. By Malar.General I. F. MAURICE, C.B., R.A— 
THE ROYAL ENGINEERS. By Lieut-General J. ]. MACLEOD INNES, V.C— ROYAL 
ARTILLERY. By Major-General D. O'CALLAGHAN.— THE CLERGY. By the Rev. W. B. 
TreVELVAN.— THE JUDGES. By Sir HERBERT STEPHEN. Bart.— BARRISTERS. By 
AUGUSTINE BIRRELL, QC, M.P.— THEI MEDICAL PROFESSION. By R. BRUDENELL 
F.R.C.S.-VICfi^CHANCELLORS. - • - • - 



CARTER. F.R.C.S.— VICE-CHANCELLORS. By the Rev. A. AUSTEN LEIGH, Provost of Kine's 
CoUeere. Cambridge.-HEAD MASTERS OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS. By Dr. WELLDON. Metropolitan 
Bishop of Calcutta.— BOYS AT PUBLIC SCHOOLS. By the Rev. G. G. T. HEYWOOD.— BANK- 
ING. By J. HERBERT TRITTON.— MUSIC. By J. A. FULLER MAITLAND.— ARTISTS. G. F. 



HEALTH ABROAD : a Medical Handbook for Travellers. Edited by 
Edmund Hobhouse, M.A. M.D. (Oxon.), M.R.C.P. Crown Bvo. 61. 
With Special Chapters on EGYPT and NORTH AFRICA, by Dr. Leigh 

Canney ; CENTRAL AFRICA, by Dr. Harford Battersbv ; CONTINENTAL 

TRAVEL, by Dr. Stuart Tidey and the Editor ; SOUTH AFRICA, by Dr. B. J. 

Guillemard ; SOUTH AMERICA, by Dr. G. H. Pknnbll ; INDIA, by Dr. W. J. 

Simpson ; and AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, and NORTH AMERICA, by the 

Editor. 

New Novel by the Author of 'The Dear Irish Girl.' 
AT ALL LIBRARIES AND BOOKSELLERS'. Crown Bvo. 61. 

SHE WALKS IN BEAUTY. By Katharine Tynan, Author of 
' The Way of a Maid," ' The Dear Irish Girl,' &c. 

London : SMITH, ELDER & CO., 15 Waterloo Place, S.W. 



SMITH, ELD ER, & CO/S N EW BOOKS. 

SIR ALGERNON WEST'S REMINISCENCES. 

SKCOND EDITION. In 2 Volumes. With Portraits and Sketches, including 

Portraits of Sir Algernon West and of the Hon. Mrs. Alfred Lyttelton by the 

Marchioness of Granby. Demy 8vo. zis. 

RECOLLECTIONS, 1832-1886. By the Right Hon. Sir Algernon 

West, K.C.B. For many years Private Secretary to the Right Hon. W. E. 
Gladstone, and subsequently Chairman of the Inland Revenue Board. 
TIMES.—' Will at once take rank among the books which everybody must read. 
They are not only in the main extremely entertaining, but in many points throw valuable 
light upon the political history of the period they cover.' 

HOW ENGLAND SAVED EUROPE : the Story of |the Great War 
(1793-1815). By W. H. FlTCHETT, LL.D., Author of ' Deeds that Won the 
Empite,' Fights for the Flag,' &c. 
To be completed in 4 vols, crown 8vo. with Portraits, Facsimiles, and Plans, 6s. each. 
Vol. I.-FROM THE LOW COUNTRIES TO EUROPE. With 16 Portraits x 

and 8 Plans. Le^dy. 

Vol. II.— THE STRUGGLE FOR THE SEA. With is Portraits and 6 Plans. ) 
And the remaining Volumes will be issued at short intervals. 
GLOBE.—' Mr. Fitchett has a com[)lete grasp of his subject. ... His book should 
find a place certainly in every library, civil and military.' 

TRAVEL AND ADVENTURE IN AUSTRALIA. 

With Portraits and Maps. Demy 3vo. i6j. 
THE LIFE OF CHARLES STORT, sometime Captain 39th Foot and 
Australian Explorer. By Mrs. Napier George Sturt. 

NEW VOLUME OF THE 'HAWORTH' EDITION OF THE LIFE AND 
WORKS OF THE SISTERS BRONTE. 

Just published. With Illustrations, large crown 8vo. gilt top, 6s. 

VILLETTE. By Charlotte Bronte. With a Preface by Mrs, 

Humphry Ward. 
•«* Further Volumes will be issued at Monthly Intervals. Prospectus on application. 

THE DICTIONARY OF NATIONAL BIOGRAPHY. 

THE LAST VOLUME BUT TWO. 

Royal 8vo. Price 15^. net in cloth ; or in half-morocco, marbled edges, 20J. net. 

VOLUME 61 (WHICHCORD-WILLIAMS (OF THE 

DICTIONARY OF NATIONAL BIOGRAPHY. Edited by Sidnby Lee. 

Note.— A Full Prospectus of 'The Dictionary of National Biography, 'with 

Specimen Pages, may be had upon application. 
•b* Volume I. was published on January i, 1885, and a Volume has been issued 
every three months since that date. A further volume will be published on April 1st and 
July 1st, jgoa T'he latter volume will complete the work. 

MORE POT-POURRI FROM A SURREY GARDEN. By Mrs. C. W. 

Earle. FOURTH IMPRESSION. Large crown 8vo. 71. 6d. 
T'^i/T"^.—' This volume, like the former, is an anthology in the literary as well as 
in the literal sense of the word. Dip where you will into it, and you will light upon 
what Montaigne called ** a nosegay of other people's thoughts," tied together, however, 
not by the string the French essayist speaks of, but, as I have seen a nosegay tied, with 
many flowers.' 

THE LOG OF A SEA WAIF : being Recollections of the First Four 
Years of My Sea Life. By Frank T. Bollen, F.R.G.S.,'Authorof 'The Cruise 
of the Cachalot; ' Idylls of the Sea,' &c. SECOND IMPRESSION. With 
6 Full-page Illustrations. Large post 8vo. 8f . 6d. 

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place, S.W. 



SMITH, ELD ER. & CO/S PU BLICATIONS. 

THE LETTERS OF ROBERT BROWNING AND ELIZABETH 

BARRETT BARRETT. Third Impression. With 2 Portraits and 2 Facsimile 

Letters, 2 vols. Crown 8vo. 21J. 
SPECTA TOR.—* We venture to think that no such remarkable and unbroken series 
of intimate letters between two remarkable people has ever been given to the world. . . . 
There is something extraordinarily touching in the gradual unfolding of the romance m 
which two poets play the parts of hero and heroine. 

THE ETCHINGHAM LETTERS. By Mrs. Fuller Maitland, 

Author of 'Pages from the Day-Bookof BethiaHardacre,'&c, and Sir Frederick 

Pollock, Bart. Third Impression. Crown 8vo. 6s. 
LITER A TURE.—^ The charm of the book lies mainly in that slowly elaborated 
presentment of character in which no method can rival the epistolary. . . . Every page 
in the book is pervaded by a charm which one values in proportion to its increasing 
rarity — the charm of scholarship.' 
THE WAR IN CUBA. The Experiences of an Englishman with the 

United States Army. By John Black Atkins, M.A. With 4 Maps and a. 

Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. 6f. 
DAILY CHRONICLE.— * A most vivid and enterUining descripUon, giving us a 
far better idea of what the war was really like to the men who took part in it than all the 
possible statistics and military treatises.' 

A LIFE OF WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE. By Sidney Lee, Editor 

of 'The Dictionary of National Biography.' ILLUSTRATED LIBRARY 

EDITION. In i vol. medium 8vo. profusely Illustrated with Photogravures, 

Pacsimiles, Topographical Views, &c., i6f. 

%* Also the Fourth Edition. With 2 Portraits of Shakespeare, a Portr^t of the 

Earl of Southampton, and Facsimiles of Shakespeare's known Signatures. Crown 

8vo. ^s. 6d. 

LITER A TURE.~* Mr. Lee's work, both for its literary qualities and its scholarship, 

does credit to English letters, and it will probably be regarded for years to come as the most 

useful, the most judicious, and the most authoritative ofall existing biographies of the poeu' 

SHAKESPEARE'S HANDWRITING. Facsimiles of the Five Authentic 

Autograph Signatures of the Poet. Extracted from Sidney Lee's ' Life of William 

Shakespeare.* With an Explanatory Note. Crown 8vo. 6d. 

THE CRUISE OF THE * CACHALOT' ROUND THE WORLD 

AFTER SPERM WHALES. By Frank T. Bullkn, First Mate. The Volume 
includes a Letter to the Author from Rudvard Kipling. Fourth Edition. With 

8 Illustrations and a Chart. Large post 8vo. Zs, 6d. 

TIMES.—* Mr. BuUen has a splendid subject, and he handles it with the pen of a 
master. ..." The Cruise of the Cachaht " is a book which cannot but fascmate all 
lovers of the sea, and all who can appreciate a masterly presentation of its wonder and 
its mystery, its terrors and its trials, its humours and its tragedies.* 

THE LIFE OF CHARLES STEWART PARNELL (1846-1891). 

By R. Barry O'Brien, Author of ' Fift^r Years of Concessions to Ireland,' &c. 
Third Impression. With a Portrait, a view of Avondale, and a Facsimile Letter. 

9 vols. Large post 8vo. au. 

TNE EARL OF ROSEBER Kat Edinburgh.— * The remarkable biography of a 
remakable man.' 

FIGHTS FOR THE FLAG. By W. H. Fitchett ('Vedette'). 

Author of * Deeds that Won the Empire.* Sfi^coND Edition. With i6 Portraits. 

13 Plans, and a Facsimile Letter of the Duke of Marlborough. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

REVIEW OF R E VIE IVS.—* This is the second volume of the series which has 

achieved one of the greatest literary successes of our time. ... As a gift book, or as 

a book to take up ana read at odd moments, or to devour at a prolonged utting, this 

book has few equals.' 

By the same Author, 

DEEDS THAT WON THE EMPIRE. Eleventh Edition. With 

x6 Portraits and xi Plans. Crown 8vo. 6;. 
SPECTATOR.— * Not since Macaulajr ceased to write has English literature 
produced a writer capable of infusing such life and vigour into historicu scenes. The 
wholesome and manly tone of Mr. r itchett's book is specially satisfactory. . . . The 
book cannot but take the reader by storm wherever it finds him.* 

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place, S.W. 



SMITH, ELDE R. & CO.'S PU BLICATIONS. 

BISMARCK : the Man and the Statesman. Being the Reflections and 
Reminiscences of Otto, Prince von Bismarck, Written and Dictated by himself 
after his retirement from oflice. Translated from the German under the supervision 
of A. J. Butler, late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. With 2 Portraits. 
Young and Old (Young— from a drawing in the possession of the family ;_ Old — by 
Von Lenbach), and a Facsimile of Handwriting. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. price 32*. 
y^/iW^^ (Leading Article). — 'Of great and enduring interest, and must be read as 
long as the world continues to interest itself in history and its makers.' 
, , LITER A TURE.—^ Bismarck's own " Reflections and Recollections" will rank, we 
think, with that small and select row of books, from the ^'Commentaries" of Caesar 
downwards, in which the chief actors in great affairs have endeavoured to describe their 
deeds or expound their characters.' 

RHODESIA AND ITS GOVERNMENT. By H. C. Thomson, Author 

of 'The Chitrat Campaign,' and of 'The Outgoing Turk.' With 8 Illustrations 

and a Map. Large crown 8vo, los. 6d. 

SPECTA TOR. — * We do not hesitate to say that, however fully a man may think 

himself informed on South African affairs, he wilfdo well to study Mr. Thomson's book. 

. . . Mr. Thomson's attitude is eminently judicial, and his views are expressed with 

great moderation. He is in no sense a " crank" or a " faddist." * 

THE MUSICIAN'S PILGRIMAGE : a Study in Artistic Development, 

By J. A. Fuller Maitland. Small crown 8vo. $s. 
^'i'^CTl^T'd?^.— 'We cannot leave this fascinating work without calling attention 
to the delightful consistency of its construction. The matter of the book is treated with 
a lucidity and coherence of thought suggestive of the developments of a sonata.' 

OUR PRAYER BOOK : CONFORMITY AND CONSCIENCK By 

the Rev. W. Page Roberts, M.A., Canon Residentiary of Canterbury, Author of 

* Law and God,' ' Liberalism in Religion,' &c. Second Edition. Crown Svo. ^s. 

ACADEJify.—* The Canon of Canterbury shows with humorous ingenuity that 

such stumbling blocks as priestly absolution and the unkind threats of the pseudo' 

Athanasius need constitute no bar to religious communion with the most primitive or the 

most rationalistic of Puritans.' 

INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF THE RENAISSANCE. 

By Mrs. Lilian F. Field. Crown 8vo. 6s. 
A CA DEMY. — ' Mrs. Field seems to us to have accomplished her difficult task very 
well. The book is capitally ordered and arranged ; the essential is properly kept in the 
foreground, and the writing is clear, sympathetic, and scholarly.' 

THE SEPOY MUTINY, AS SEEN BY A SUBALTERN FROM 

DELHI TO LUCKNOW. By Col. Edwahd Vibart. With 2 Portraits, a 
Plan, and zo Illustrations. Large crown Svo. 7;. td. 
ARMY AND NA VY GAZETTE.—^ A narrative of surpassing interest. It holds 
the reader spell-bound by its intensity of feeling and narrative power. 

CHARLES LAMB AND THE LLOYDS, Edited by E. V. Lucas. 

With Portraits and a Facsimile Letter. Small post 8vo. ds. 
MANCHESTER GUARDIAN.— ^\t is difficult to maintain critical composure 
anddecorum on a discovery like this, and the difficulty becomes an impossibility when it 
is found that these additions to the canon of Lamb's writings are not inferior in beauty 
and interest to the best of his published work.' 

IDLEHURST : a Journal kept in the Country. By John Halsham. 
Crown Svo. 8 p. 
PALL MALL GAZETTE.—'' Very charming. . . . The best advice we can give 
to those who like to read about the country is to get " Idlehurst ** for themselves.* 

THE POETICAL WORKS OF ROBERT BRIDGES. Vols. I. and II. 

Small crown Svo. ts. each. 
ACADEMY.— *^ In this edition Mr. Bridges at once makes his bow to the general 
public, and at the same time assumes the honoursof an established and recognised poet.' 

PAGES FROM A PRIVATE DIARY. Reprinted from the Comhill 

Magazine. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. 6*. 
ATHENjEI/M.—^YmW of happy sayings, of stories, and of pleasant turns of 
observation . . . and amusing from cover to cover. . . , Really a model to modern 
writers of diaries for the public' 

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place, S.W. 



SMITH. ELDER, & CO.'S PUBLICATIONS. 

SIR FRANK LOCKWOOD: a Biographical Sketch. By Augustine 

BiRRELL, Q.C., M.P. With a Portraits, lo Full-page Illustrations, and a Facsimile 

Letters. FoDRTH Edition. Laree crown 8vo. loj. 6a. 
' This is in many respects a model biography, vivid, sympathetic, and entertMnine, 
and full without overflowing the due bounds of personal histoiy- In short, Mr. Birrell 
has written a genial life of one of the most genial and popular of men. -1 imes. 

COLLECTIONS AND RECOLLECTIONS. By 'One who has kept a 

DiARV.' With a Frontispiece. Revised, Enlarged, and Cheaper Edition. Large 

crown 8vo. yj. 6d. 

' One of the most entertaining books that we have ever looked through. Mr. Russell 

not only tells us who is who, but who was who. We lay down the book with a proud 

feeling that we have enjoyed a short intimacy with every one. All the people who Hit 

before us live, and some of them live in quite a new light. —Spectator. 

SONGS OF ACTION. By Conan Doyle. Second Impression. 

Fcp. 8vo. 5J. , ,..,,,- t 

' Dr. Conan Doyle has well named his verse Songs of Action. It pulsates with 
life and movement, whether the scene be laid on sea or land, on ship or on horseback. — 
Punch. 

MR. GREGORY'S LETTER-BOX, 1813-30. Edited by Lady 

Gregory. With a Portrait. Demy 8v>o. 12s. 6d. 
' Lady Gregory's pages bristle with good stories. Indeed, the great dilEculty of a 
reviewer in deaUng with this fascinating book is the plethora of good things that clamour 
for quotation.' — World. 

EGYPT IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY; or, Mehemet Ali and 

his Successors until the British Occupation in i88a. By Donald A. Cameron, 

H.B.M.'s Consul at Port Said. With a Map. Post 8vo. 6j. 

'A valuable handbook to the subject. . . . Mr. Cameron has the rare gift of knowing 

what to leave out, and instead of confusing his pages with unimportant details he presents 

a clear outline picture filled in just enough to put the reader in possession of the necessary 

points.' — Times. 

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF ARTHUR YOUNG. With Selections 

from his Correspondence. Edited by M. Betham-Edwards. With a Portraits 

and 2 Views. Large crown 8vo. zzj. 6d, 
' Miss Edwards has done her task with a reserve and succinctness to be much 
commended. She deserves well of all who hold in honour the memory of one who ever 
strove manfully to make two blades of grass grow where one grew before.'— Times. 

THE LIFE OF SIR JOHN HAWLEY GLOVER, R.N., 6.C.M.G. 

By Laxly Glover. Edited by the Right Hon. Sir Richard Templb, Bart., 
G.C.S.I., D.CL., LL.D., F.R.S. With Portrait and Maps. Demy 8vo. 14J. 
'Written with noteworthy tactj ability, and discretion by his widow. . . . One of the 
best and most satisfactory biographies of its class produced within recent years.' — World. 

FRANCE UNDER LOUIS XV. By James Breck Perkins, Author 

of ' France under the Regency.' 2 vols. Crown 8vo. i6j. 

* A very good book. . . . Mr. Perkins' tracing out of the foreign policv of France through 
the wars wnich did so much to break down her power and tne prestige of her crown is 
very clear and intelligent, and his judgment appears to be generally sound.' — Times. 

THE STORY OF THE CHURCH OF EGYPT: being an Outline of 

the History of the Egyptians under their successive Masters from the Roman 
Conquest until now. By E. L. Butchbr, Author of ' A Strange Journey/ 
* A Black Jewel,' &c. In 2 vols. Crown 8vo. \6s. 

* Mrs. Butcher is to be congratulated on the ability, thoroughness, and research which 
she has brought to the accomplishment of her formidable task. — Christian World. 

RELIGIO MEDICI, and other Essays. By Sir Thomas Brownk, 

Edited, with an Introduction, by D. Lloyd Roberts, M.D., F.R.C.P. Revised 
Edition. Fcp. 8vo. 3;, 6d. net. 

* An excellent selection, edited with the loving care of a true bibliophitci which 
leaves no phase of Browne's genius unreveaied.' — Manchester Courier. 

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place, S.W. 



SMITH, ELDER, & CO/S PUBLICATIONS. 



MRS. E. B, BROWNING'S LETTERS. Edited, with Biographical 
Additions, by Frederic G. Kenyon. Fourth Edition. 2 vols. With Portraits. 
Crown 8vo. 15*. net. 
These volumes are the first adequate contribution which has been made to a real 

knowledge of Mrs. Browning. , . '.The inestimable value of the collection is that it 

contains not merely interesting critical writing, but the intimate expression of a 

personality.'— Athene UM. 

MRS. BROWNING'S COMPLETE WORKS. New and Cheaper 

Edition, complete in One Volume, with Portrait and Facsimile, of a ' Sonnet from 
the Portuguese.' Large crown Svo. bound in cloth, with gilt top, 7J. td. 
*«« This Edition is uniform with the Two-volume Edition of I^obert 

Browning:' s Complete Worlcs. 
'The first really complete edition of the poetess' works. ... In form, as well as in 
substance, the volume will be a welcome addition to many a library and bookshelf.' — Times. 

THE WAR OF GREEK INDEPENDENCE, 1821-1833. By W. 

Alison Phillips, M.A., late Scholar of Merton College, Senior Scholar of 
St, John's College, Oxford. With Map. Large crown Svo. "js. 6d. 
'We sincerely commend Mr. Alison Phillips' "History of the Greek War of 
Independence "... We have met few books better calculated to clear the mind of cant 
on a subject concerning which much cant has been talked.'— St. James's Gazette. 

LORD COCHRANE'S TRIAL BEFORE LORD ELLENBOROUGH 

IN 1814. By J. B. Atlav. With a Preface by Edward Downes Law, 

Commander, Royal Navy. With Portrait, Svo. i8s. 
'Goes far to show that the version of Lord Ellenborough's conduct to which Lord 
Dundonaid himself and certain of his apologbts and biographers have given currency, 
cannot be sustained.' —Times. 

FRIENDSHIP'S GARLAND. By Matthew Arnold. Second Edition- 

Small crown Svo. bound in white cloth, 4s. 6d, 
'All lovers of Matthew Arnold and of genuine humour will hail with delight the 
republication of "Friendship's Garland." . . . The book is written throughout in the 
highest possible spirits, and there is not a dull page in it.'— Daily News. 

A BROWNING COURTSHIP ; and other Stories. By Eliza Orne 

White, Author of ' The Coming of Theodora ' &c. Small post Svo. 5J. 
INDIAN FRONTIER POLICY. An Historical Sketch. By General 
Sir John Adye, G.C.B., R.A., Author of ' Recollections of a Military Life.' With 
Map. Demy Svo. 3J. 6a. 

ELECTRIC MOVEMENT IN AIR AND WATER. With Theoretical 

Inferences. By Lord Armstrong, C.B., F.R.S., LL.D., &c. With a SUPPLE- 
MENT, containing a continuation of his Experiments, together with an extension 
of them made in concert with Henry Stroud, M.A., D.Sc, Professor of Physics, 
Durham College of Science, Newcastle-on-Tyne. With Additional Plates 
Imperial 4to. £i. loj. net. 

*,!t» The Purchasers of the First Edition will, on application to Smith, Elder, & Co., 
receive gratis a copy of the Supplement. 
' One of the niost^ remarkable contributions to physical and electrical knowledge 

that have been made in recent years. , . . The illustrations are produced in a superb 

manner, entirely worthy of so remarkable a monograph.' — Times. 

GABRIELE VON BULOW, Daughter of Wilhelm von Humboldt. 

A Memoir compiled from the Family Papers of Wilhelm von Humboldt and his 

Children, 1791-1887. Translated by Clara Nordlinger. With Portraits and a 

Preface by Sir Edward B. Malet, G.C.B., G.C.M.G., &c. Demy Svo. idr. 

' Miss Nordlinger's excellent translation gives English readers an opportunity of 

becoming acquainted with a very charming personality, and of following the events of 

a life which was bound up wiUi many interesting incidents and phases of English 

history. '— Times. 

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place, S.W. 



WORKS BY MISS THACKERAY. 

Uniform Edition, each Volume Illustpated with a Vignette Title-page. 
Large Crown 8vo. 6s. each. 
OLD KENSINGTON, 



THE VILLAGE ON THE CLIFF. 
FIVE OLD FRIENDS AND A YOUNG 

PRINCE. 
TO ESTHER; and other Sketches. 
THE STORY OF ELIZABETH: TWO 

HOURS : FROM AN ISLAND. 



BLUEBEARD'S KEYS; and other 
Stories. 

TOILERS AND SPINSTERS. 

MISS ANGEL ; FULHAM LAWN. 

MISS WILLIAMSON'S DIVAGA- 
TIONS. 

MRS. DYMOND. 



ILLUSTRATED EDITION OF 

MRS. GASKELL'S NOVELS AND TALES. 

In Seven Volumes, bound In cloth, each containing Four Illustrations, 
price 3s. 6d. each. 

CONTENTS OF THE VOLUMES : 

Vol. I. WIVES AND DAUGHTERS. I Vol. III. SYLVIA'S LOVERS. 

Vol. II. NORTH AND SOUTH. I Vol. IV. CRANFORD. 

Companjr Manners— The Well of Pen-Morpha— The Heart of John Middleton— Trait 
and Stories of the Huguenots — Six Weeks at Heppenheim — The Squire's Story — 
Libbie Marsh's Three Eras— Curious if True— The Moorland Cottage— The Sexton's 
Hero — Disappearances — Right at Last — ^The Manchester Marriage — Lois the Witch— 
The Crool^ed Branch. 

Vol. V. MARY BARTON. 
Cousin Phillis— My French Master— The Old Nurse's Story— Bessy 's Troubles at Home- 
Christmas Storms and Sunshine. 

Vol. VI. RUTH. 
The Grey Woman — ^Morton Hall — Mr. Harrison's Confessions — Hand and Heart. 

Vol. VII. LIZZIE LEIGH. 
A Dark Night's Work — Round the Sofa — My Lady Ludlow — An Accursed Race — The 
Doom of the GrirRths— Haifa Lifetime Ago — The Poor Clare — The Half- Brothers. 

't" The Volumes are also to be had In small post Svo. limp green cloth, 
or cloth boards, gilt top, price 2s. 6d. each : and in Eight Volumes, 
small fcp. Svo. bound In cloth, with gilt top, price Is. Sd. each; or 
the Set, In gold-lettered cloth case, 14s. 

ILLUSTRATED EDITIONS OF 

POPULAR ^ATORKS. 

SanHsomely bound in clotJi ffiltf each volume containing Four 
Illustrations. Croivn Svo, 3s, Gtl, each. 



THE SMALL HOUSE AT ALLINGTON. 

By Anthony Trollope. 

FRAMLEY PARSONAGE. By An- 
thony Trollope. 

THE CLAVERINCS By Anthony 

Trollope. 
TRANSFORMATION : a Romance. By 

Nathaniel Hawthorne. 

DOMESTIC STORIES. By the Author 
of ' John Halifax, Gentleman.' 



THE MOORS AND THE FENS. By 

Mrs. J. H. RlDDELL. 

WITHIN THE PRECINCTS. By Mrs 
Oliphant. 

CARITA. By Mrs. Ouphant. 

FOR PERCIVAL. By Margaret 
Vhley. 

NO NEW THING. By W. E. NosRrs. 

LOVE THE DEBT. By Richard Ashe 
King (' Basil'), 



London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., IS Waterloo Place, S.W. 



NEW EDITION OF W. M. THACKERAY'S WORKS. 



In 13 Volumes, Large crown 8vo. cloth, gilt top, 6s. each. 

Tim BIOGRAPHICAL EDSTION OF 

W. M. THACKERAY'S COMPLETE WORKS. 

THIS NEW AND REVISED EDITION 

COMPRISES 

ADDITIONAL MATERIAL and HITHERTO 

UNPUBLISHED LETTERS, SKETCHES, 

and DRAWINGS, 

J}erived/rojn the Author' sOri^nal Manuscripts 
and Note-Books. 

AND EACH VOLUME INCLUDES A 

MEMOIR, IN THE FORM OF AN 

INTRODUCTION, 

By Mrs. RICHMOND RITCHIE. 

SSTThe 13 Volumes are also supplied In Set cloth binding, gilt 
price £3. 18s. Od, 




top. 



1. VANITY FAIR. With 20 Full-page Illustrations, 11 Woodcuts, » Facsimile 

Letter, and a new Portrait. 

2. PENDENNIS. With 20 Full-page Illustrations and 10 Woodcuts. 

3. VELLOWPLUSH PAPERS, &c. With 24 Full-page Reproductions of Steel 

Plates by George Cruikshank, ii Woodcuts, and a Portrait of the Author by 

Tl^ ACLISE 

4. THE MEMOIRS OF BARRY LYNDON : THE FITZBOODLE PAPERS. 

&c. With 16 Full-page llluiitrations by J. E. Millais, R.A., Luke Fildes, 
A.R.A., and the Author, and 14 Woodcuts. 

5. sketch books:— the paris sketch book; the irish sketch 

book:; notes of a journey from cornhill to grand 

CAIRO, &c. With x6 Full-page Illustrations, 39 Woodcuts, and a Portrait of 
the Author by Maclise. 

6. CONTRSIiUTlONS TO 'PUNCH* &c. With 20 Full-page Illustrations, 26 

Woodcuts, and an Engraving of the Author from a Portrait by Samuel 
Laurence. 

7. THE HISTORY OP HENRY ESMOND; and THE LECTURES. With 

20 Full-page Illustrations by George Du Maurier, F. Barnard, and Frank 
DiCKSEE, R.A., and 11 Woodcuts. 

8. THE NEWCOMES, With 20 Full-page Illustrations by Richard Doyle and 

II Woodcuts. 

9- CHRISTMAS BOOKS, &c. With 9 FuU-page Illustrations, 122 Woodcuts, and 
a Facsimile Letter. 

[O. THE VIRGINIANS. With 20 Full-page Illustrations, 6 Woodcuts, a Photo- 
gravure, and a new Portrait. 

[I. THE ADVENTURES OF PHILIP; and A SHABBY GENTEEL STORY, 
With 24 Full-page Illustrations by Frederick Walker and the Author, 
6 Woodcuts, a Facsimile of MS., and 2 Facsimile Letters. 

3. LOVEL THE WIDOWER; ROUNDABOUT PAPERS DENIS 
DUVAL, &c. With 20 Full-page and 11 Text Illustrations by Frederick 
Walker, A.R.A., Charles Keene, and the Author, and 2 pages of MS. in 
facsimile. 
BALLADS AND MISCELLANIES. With 35 Full-page Illustrations by the 
Author, George Cruikshank and John Leech, 35 Woodcuts, 3 Portraits of 
Thackeray's Ancestors, an Engraving of the Author from a Drawing by Samuel 
Laurence, and a Photogravure, from a Drawing by Chinnery, of Thackeray 
at the age of 3, with his Father and Mother. The volume also contains a Life 
of Thackeray by Leslie Stephen and a Bibliography. 
*•• A. Prospectus o/the Edition^ with specimen pages^ wHlhe sent post free 
on application. 

l^ndon; SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place, S.W. 

H H 



13 



NOVELS BY Mas. HUMP HRY WARD. 

HELBECK OF BANNISDALE. Fifth 

Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 
, From THK TIMES,—' A book which will take rank with Mrs. Humphry Ward's best 
work. . . . The story is a story of a great passion worthily told. Fine luminous 
passages, fraught with delicate significances, permit us to understand the atmosphere in 
which the two chief actors move.' 

l-romTHE SPECTATOR.— 'Very few men and women will, we predict, be able to 
close Mrs. Ward's book without the sen<;e that they have been profoundly interested and 
deeply touched. We follow the searchings of heart experienced both by Laura and the 
Squire with intense interest. We never lose our human interest, nor do the chief 
combatants ever cease to be real people, and so we shall venture to predict for 
Mrs. Ward's new book a success quite as great as that which fell to her last two novels.' 

SIR GEORGE TRESSADY. Third Edition. 

Crown 8vo. 6s. 

From THE TIMES :— *In every sense this is a remarkable novel. . . . The writer 
takes an even wider range than before, and deals with contemporary politics and the 
burning questions of the morrow with the verve and no little of the knowledge of a 
Disraeli. . . . The charm of the novel is the actuality of the personages. Mrs. Ward 
has been living with them : so they live and breathe.' 

From THE STANDARD :— ' " Sir George Tressady " is an exceedingly able book. 
We doubt if any other living woman could have written it. ... It is a work that does 
her heart and imagination infinite credit.' 

MARCELLA. Sixteenth Edition. Crown 8vo. 6^. 

Cheap Popular Edition, bound in limp cloth. Crown 8vo. zs. 6d. 
From THE TIMES :— ' Mrs. Humphry Ward again thrusts her hand into the hot fire 
of living interests. Perhaps from this reason not a pa^c is insioid. Everywhere is fresh, 
bright "actuality"; everywhere are touches of intimacy with the world which she 
describes.' 

THE HISTORY OF DAVID GRIEYE. 

Ninth Edition. Crown 8vo. 6j. Cheap Popular Edition, bound in Ump cloth. 
Crown &vo. 2^. 6d, 
From THE SPEAKER:— 'Thw we can affirm, hat in masterly grasp of the vaiiojs 
phases of spiritual thought and conflict in the England of to-day, " David Grieve " stands 
alone in modern fiction, and must be confessed as what it is— a masterpiece.' 

ROBERT ELSMERE. Twenty-seventh Edition. 

Crown 8vo. &s. Cheap Popular Edition, bound in limp cloth. Crown 8vo. 

2J. 6rf. Cabinet Edition, Two Volumes. Small 8vo. laj. 
From THE SPECTATOR:— 'This is a very remarkable book. . . . Profoundly as 
we differ from Mrs. Humphry Ward's criticism of Christianity, we recognise in her book 
one of the most striking pictures of a sincere religious ideal that has ever been presentea 
to our generation under the disguise of the modern novel.' 

THE STORY OF BESSIE COSTRELL. 

Square i6mo. 2J. 
From THE CHRISTIAN WORLD :— 'Mrs. Ward has done nothing finer than this 
,brief story. The sustained interest, which does not permit the reader to miss a line ; the 
vivid clearness in which each character stands out in self-revelation ; the unfailing insight 
into the familiar and confused workings of the village mind— all represent work of the 
highest class. " The Story of Bessie Costrell" will become an English classic' 



London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place, S.W. 



RURA L ENG LAND. 

' A series of hooks of really incomparable freshiess and interest. — kiimsMvin, 
' Books unsurpassed in power of observation and sympathyvjith natvral objects 
Vy anything that has appeared since the days of Gilbert White.' — Daily Ne'ws. 

WOMS BY TH E LATE RICHA RD JEFFERIES. 

THE GAMEKEEPER AT HOME; or, Sketches of Natural 

History and Rural Life. Newlfiditiou, with all the Illustrations of the former Edition. 
Crown Svo. 5^. 

* Delightful sketches. The lover of the country can hardly fail to be fapcinated -wheneTor 
he may happen to open the pages. It is a hook to read and keep for refereuce, and should 
he on tbe shelves of every country gentleman's library.' — Saturday Review. 

ROUND ABOUT A GREAT ESTATE. New Edition. Crown 

Svo. 53. 

* To read a book of his is really like taking a trip into some remote part of the country 
where the surroundings of life remain very much what they were thirty or forty jeare ago, 
Mr. Jefferies has made up a very ptea*iftnt volume.' — The Globb. 

WILD LIFE IN A SOUTHERN COUNTY. New Edition. 

Crown Svo. Gs. 
*A volume which is worthy of a place beside "White's " Selbome." In closeness of obser- 
vation, in power of giving a picture far beyond the power of a mere word-painter, he is the 
equal of the Selborne rector— perhaps his superior. This is a book to rend and to treasure.' 

THR ATHBS.fflOM. 

THE AMATEUR POACHER. New Edition. Crown Svo. 5s. 

' We have rarely met with a book in which so much that is entertaining is combined with 
matter of real practical worth.'— The Grapsic. 

HODGE AND HIS MASTERS. New Edition. Cr. Svo. 7s. 6d. 

' The one great charm of Mr. Jefferies' writings may be summed up in the single word 
" graphic." He has a rare power of description, and in "Hodge and his Masters" we find 
plenty of good reading.' — Standard. 

WOODLAND, MOOR, AND STREAM ; being the Notes of a 

Naturalist. Edited by J. A. Owek. Third Bditiofi. Crown Svo. is. 
* As a specimen of word-paintinp. the description of the quaintold fishinpTinage close 
to the edee of the North Kent marshes can hardly be surpassed, . . . The hook is capitally 
written, full of good stories, and thoroughly commendable,' — The ATHBSiEnii. 

FOREST TITHES ; and other Studies from Nature. By the 

Authorof Woodland, Moor, and Sti-eam,' &c. Edited by J. A. Owbn. Crown 8vo. 5.s. 

* Tlie book should be read. It is full of the spirit of the South Country, and as we read 
It we seem to hear again the clack of the mill wheel, the cry of the water-fowl, and the splash 
uf fish.' — Spkctatoh. 

ALL THE YEAR WITH NATURE. By P. Andeeson 

Graham. Crown gvo. 5s. 

* Of the 28 papers composing the volume there is not one which does not brim over with 
love of Nature, observation of her by-paths, and power of sympathetic expression.'— Obrerver. 

A YEAR IN THE FIELDS. Selections from the Writings of 

John Buuboughs. With IlUstrations from Photographs by Olutton Johkson, 
C^own Svo. Gs. 
'An excellent e^ca-mple of its kind, pleasant, chatty, and readable. . . . Fresh asd graphic, 
instinct with country sights, scents, and soajids.' — Land and Watkr. 

POT-POURRI FROM A SURREY GARDEN. By Mrs. C. W. 

Eaklo. With an Appendix by Lady Oonstakck Liti'on. Twentieth Bdition, Crown 
8vo. 7s. Cd. 
Dean HoLJt, in an article upon the work in the ' Nineteenth Century,' says :— ' There isnot 
time forfurther enjoyment of this sweet, spicy" Pot- Pourri"; no space forfnrtherejftracta from 
this clever and comprehensive book ; only for two more earnest words to the reader — Bun ^' 

London: SMITH, BLDEB, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place, S.W. " 



'Assuredly there are few books which will live longer in 
Baglisb literature than those that we owe to the pens of the 
Bronte Sisters. '—THE SPEAKER. 



Messrs. SMITH, ELDER, & CO. announce the publication, in 7 Monthly 
Volumes, large crown 8vo. cloth, gilt top, 68. each, of 

A NEW EDITION 

TO BE TERMED 

THE * HAWORTH ' EDITION 

OF THE 

Life and Works 

OF 

The Sisters Bronte 

WITH PORTRAITS AND ILLUSTRATIONS 

Including Views of some places described in the Works, reproduced from 
Photographs specially taken for the purpose by Mr. W. R. Bland of 
Duffield, Derby, in conjunction with Mr. C. Barrow Keene of Derby. 

Introductions to the Works are supplied by 
Iffirs. HUMPHRY WARD, 

AND 

An Introduction and Notes to Mrs. Gaskell's ' Life of 

Charlotte Bronte ' by Mr. CLEMENT K. SHORTER, 

the eminent Bronte authority. 



Volumes I. to III., JANE EYRE, SHIRLEY, and VILLETTE, 
by CHARLOTTE BRONTE, are ready, and the remaining volumes 
will be issued at monthly intervals. 



The Edition is similar in format to tlie recently 
completed BIOGRAPHICAL EDITION of W. M. THACKERAY'S 
WORKS, 



London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place, S.W. 



l! ' 



