TX 715 
•D481 
Copy i 



«« J\ Cittle Book of 

Practical Cookery 




Bp 



G*rr 

Edward 

Detlefs 



PRICE 
50 CENTS 



A LITTLE BOOK 

OF 

Practical Cookery 

by y 

HERR EDWARD DETLEFS 



SPECIAL RATES GIVEN TO CLASSES 
GOTTEN UP FOR THE BENEFIT OF 
CHURCHES, CLUBS, OR CHARITIES 



ADDRESS : 

PROF. EDWARD G. DETLEFS 

P. O. BOX 63, DANVILLE, ILL. 
1900 



1 



32685 

Library of Congress 

Two Copies Rece eo 
AUG 9 1900 

Copyright entry 

SECOND COPY. 

Deiiverad to 

ORDER DIVISION, 
AUG 20 190^ 



^ 
^ 



68233 



Copyright, 1900, 

BY 

HERR EDWARD DETLEFS 










CONTENTS 

PAGES 

Part I. Soups 5-8 

" II. Meats and Entrees 9-17 

" III. Meat and Fish Sauces 18-20 

" IV. Fish and Game 21-23 

" V. Vegetables 24-28 

VI. Egg Dishes 29-32 

" VII. Salads and Salad Dressings 33-36 

" VIII. Bread, Muffins, and Griddle 

Cakes 37-39 

IX. Pastry 41-43 

" X. Puddings and Pudding Sauces 45-51 

XL Cakes 52-58 

" XII. Cake Frostings and Fillings 59-61 

" XIII. Cold and Frozen Desserts 62-66 

(iii) 



PART I 



SOUPS 



ASPARAGUS SOUP 

Open a can of asparagus, turn out contents, lay 
in a colander, and rinse thoroughly in cold water. 
Drain, cut off the points, and put the stalks in a 
saucepan with 1 quart of the stock; simmer until very 
tender and rub through a fine sieve. Return to the 
fire, add 1 heaping tablespoonful butter and 2 
heaping tablespoonfuls flour rubbed together to a 
paste; stir constantly until the soup is slightly thick- 
ened; season to taste and simmer for five minutes. 
Add ^ cup hot cream and the points; stir in 1 cup 
whipped cream, and take at once from the fire. 

TOMATO SOUP 

One can tomatoes, 1 pint water, 4 peppercorns, 
1 bay leaf, 4 cloves, 1 teaspoonful salt, a pinch of 
mace, and 1 dessert-spoonful sugar; cook and strain, 

(5) 



% 



6 PRACTICAL COOKER T 

then thicken with 2 tablespoonfuls butter and 1^ 
tablespoonfuls flour. 

CREAM OF LIMA BEAN SOUP 

Soak 1 cup of dried Lima beans over night; drain 
and add 3 pints cold water; cook until tender and rub 
through a sieve. Cut 2 slices onion and 4 slices 

o 

carrot into dice and cook in 2 tablespoonfuls butter 
until yellow; add 1 cup milk, 2 tablespoonfuls 
flour, 1 teaspoonful salt, and \ teaspoonful pepper. 
Stir this into the boiling soup. 

CREAM OF LETTUCE SOUP 

Cook 4 heads of lettuce in boiling salted water for 
ten minutes; drain and throw into a pan of cold 
water. In five minutes drain, chop fine, and rub 
through a sieve. Melt 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
add 2 tablespoonfuls flour, and blend well; add 
gradually 1 quart milk and stir until thickened. 
Add the lettuce pulp which has been thinned with a 
little of this sauce, season with salt and pepper, and 
simmer five minutes. Serve with croutons. 

WHITE SOUP STOCK 

Take 4 pounds of the knuckle of veal and cut the 
meat into small pieces. Crack the bone and put into 
the soup kettle with the meat, 2 stalks celery, 2 



SO UPS 7 

small onions, 1 level tablespoonful salt, and 6 pep- 
percorns. Cover with 3 quarts cold water. Set 
where it will heat slowly and skim every bit that 
rises to the surface. Let it simmer slowly for five or 
six hours; strain and when cold remove the fat. If 
possible make the day before using. This is the 
foundation for velvet and cream soups. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

One pint white stock, 1 head celery; cook to- 
gether for twenty minutes. Add 1 cup milk and 
1 cup cream and strain. Thicken with 2 table- 
spoonfuls butter and 1 heaping tablespoonful flour 
which have been rubbed together. Season with salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg. 

TAPIOCA CREAM SOUP 

Soak i cup tapioca in cold water over night. 
Cook it very gently for one hour in 1 quart 
of white stock. Cut 1 medium-sized onion and 2 
stalks celery in small pieces and cook in 1 pint 
milk or cream for twenty minutes. Strain and add 
to the tapioca and stock. Season with salt, pepper, 
and lastly add 1 tablespoonful butter. Serve. 

TOMATO BISQUE 
Melt 2 tablespoonfuls butter in a saucepan, add 
1 rounded teaspoonful flour and rub together until 



8 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

smooth; add gradually 1 quart milk and cook until 
thickened. Cook \ can tomatoes, ^ cup water, 
\ bay leaf, and 2 cloves together for five minutes; 
strain and add while hot to the thickened milk. 
Season with salt, pepper, and a tablespoonful sugar 
and serve at once. 



PART II 



MEATS AND ENTREES 



CANNELON OF BEEF 

Mix well together the following: 1 pound chopped 
beef, 2 ounces butter, \ teaspoonful salt, \ teaspoon- 
ful white pepper, yolk of 1 egg, 10 drops onion 
juice, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, and the grated 
rind of half a lemon. Form into roll and bake in 
pie crust. Serve with brown gravy. 

BLANQUETTE OF VEAL 

Cook 1 pound lean veal until tender, cut into small 
pieces, and simmer in the following sauce for five 
minutes: 

Sauce — Melt 1 tablespoonful butter, add \ table- 
spoonful flour, 1 cup boiling water, a little nutmeg, 
and a sprig of parsley chopped fine. When just 
ready to serve stir in the yolks of 2 eggs without 
boiling, also a few drops lemon juice. Serve in a 
rice border. 

(9) 



10 PRACTICAL COOKER T 



NUT CANNELON 

Six ounces fine bread crumbs, \ teaspoonful salt, 
\ cup milk, a seasoning of sage or thyme, and 2 
tablespoonfuls chopped parsley; add 1 cup of mixed 
nuts chopped fine. Fry 1 small onion in 3 table- 
spoonfuls butter until slightly colored, and strain into 
other ingredients. Stir over fire for five minutes, 
then add 2 well-beaten eggs and stir until mixture 
leaves bottom and sides of kettle; cool, then form 
into roll. Bake in pie crust, and serve with brown 
gravy. 

CECILS 

One cup cold beef, chopped fine; add seasoning of 
salt, pepper, and a little grated onion; also 2 table- 
spoonfuls soaked bread and the yolks of 3 eggs. 
Melt 1 tablespoonful butter on a griddle and add the 
meat mixture. Stir over the fire for two minutes; 
then take from fire, form into balls, dust with flour, 
dip in beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs, and fry in 
deep fat like a doughnut. Serve with " Cream " or 
"Tomato Sauce." 

CHICKEN CUTLETS 

Cook ^ cup flour in ^ cup butter, add 1 cup stock 
( or liquor in which the chicken was cooked), -| cup 



MEATS AND ENTREES 11 

cream, 1 beaten egg, and 1^ pints chopped chicken. 
Season to taste with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs. 
When cold form into cutlets and dip in beaten egg 
and bread crumbs. Either bake until brown, or fry 
in deep fat until nicely colored. Garnish each cutlet 
with mashed potatoes, to which a beaten egg has 
been added. Serve with creamed peas. 

SALMON CROQUETTES 

Mix together 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 6 of flour; 
add gradually £ cup boiling milk; put in 
double boiler and stir until it thickens, then add 1 
tablespoonful chopped parsley, ^ teaspoonful salt, 
1 tablespoonful lemon juice, a little cayenne, and 1 
can salmon which has been picked fine. Stir until 
mixture leaves bottom and sides of kettle, then spread 
on platter to cool for one hour; afterwards finish like 
other croquettes. Serve with " Cream Sauce." 

FRICANDELLE OF VEAL 

Mix together 1 pound chopped veal, 4 ounces 
soaked bread, ^ teaspoonful salt, a little pepper, and 
grated onion; form into small cakes. Melt 2 table- 
spoonfuls butter in a baking-pan, place these cakes 
in it and brown on both sides. Serve with brown 
gravy. 



12 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

CHICKEN TERRAPIN 

Melt 3 tablespoonfuls butter, add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls flour, \ teaspoonful salt, a little pepper and 
cayenne, and gradually 1 cup sweet milk. Stir 
until it thickens, then add 1^ cups cooked chicken 
cut fine, the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs also cut 
fine, the whites cut in \ inch pieces; boil two min- 
utes longer and serve on toast. Garnish with parsley. 

PHILADELPHIA FRIED OYSTERS 

Drain the oysters and drop them in a large bowl 
of cracker crumbs; when all are in shake the bowl so 
that all may be dried in the crumbs. Take out, dip 
in beaten eggs (4 to 1 pint of oysters), then again in 
cracker crumbs. Pat them a little to smooth them, 
and when all are ready, fry in smoking fat. 

STUFFED STEW OF BEEF 

Take a thick slice from the round. Make slits in 
it about two inches long and almost through; fill these 
with the filling for " Nut Cannelon," or use any ordi- 
nary bread stuffing. Roll up and tie well and put 
into a baking-pan; add a sliced onion and a carrot, 
2 bay leaves, a sprig of parsley, and 1 quart water. 
Cover the pan and cook slowly for about two hours. 
Serve with brown gravy. 



MEATS AND ENTREES 13 



VIENNA STEAKS 

One-half pound each of raw lean beef and veal 
freed from gristle and bone. Run through a meat 
chopper; add \ teaspoonful salt, \ teaspoonful pep- 
per, \ teaspoonful mixed sweet herbs, 1 teaspoonful 
chopped parsley, and 1 teaspoonful chopped onion. 
Stir in 1 well-beaten egg and set aside for several 
hours. Form into steaks and fry in hot butter. 



CHICKEN TIMBALE 

Take the white meat from 1 uncooked chicken, 
chop fine and rub through a sieve. Put 1 cup of 
white bread crumbs and ^ cup milk in a saucepan. 
Stir until boilinsf hot. Take from the fire and add 

o 

gradually the chicken, 1 teaspoonful salt, and a dash 
of pepper. Stir in carefully the well-beaten whites of 
5 eggs. Put this mixture into timbale cups, stand 
them in a pan of boiling water, cover with oil paper, 
and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen or twenty 
minutes. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

Cook 1 four-pound fowl in boiling salted water 
with 4 slices carrot, 4 slices onion, 1 sprig parsley, 
and ^ a bay leaf until tender. Remove the vege- 
tables and reduce stock by boiling, to 3 cups; cool 
and remove fat. Chop the chicken from the breast 



14 PRACTICAL COOKERT 

and second joints; melt 1 heaping tablespoonful but- 
ter, add 2 heaping tablespoonfuls flour, 1 cup chicken 
stock, and, when perfectly smooth, yolk of 1 egg, then 
the chopped chicken, salt, pepper, and a slight grat- 
ing of nutmeg. Cool the mixture and proceed as for 
other croquettes. 

BROILED SWEETBREADS 

Wash a pair of sweetbreads, throw them in boiling 
salted water, and cook for ten minutes. Drain and 
lay in iced water until thoroughly cold. This process 
is called " blanching " the sweetbreads, and should be 
done as soon as the perishable dainties are brought 
home from the butcher's. Wipe them dry, rub with 
butter, and broil over a clear fire. Watch them that 
they do not scorch. When done put on a hot dish, 
pour a little melted butter over them, sprinkle lightly 
with salt and pepper, and serve. 

SWEETBREAD PATES 

Make shells of rich puff paste and fill them with a 
mixture made according to the following recipe : 

Cut a pair of blanched sweetbreads into small dice. 
Cut 10 canned mushrooms into quarters and mix them 
with the sweetbreads. Add 8 blanched and chopped 
almonds and 6 olives cut into tiny pieces. Heat 1 
cup cream and thicken it with 1 teaspoonful corn- 



MEATS AND ENTREES 15 

starch rubbed into 1 of butter. When smooth and 
thick, add the sweetbreads, olives, etc. If too 
thick now, thin the mixture with a little mushroom 
liquor. As soon as the ingredients are heated 
through, remove from the fire. 

SWEETBREAD MOLDS 

Blanch and chop 2 pairs of sweetbreads until as 
fine as powder, then rub them very smooth with the 
back of a silver spoon. Work into this paste 1 gill 
rich cream and the beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Sea- 
son with salt and white pepper, and beat long and 
hard. Butter small timbale molds or " nappies " and 
pour the mixture into them. Set the molds in a pan 
of hot water and bake in a hot oven until " set." 
Loosen the contents of the nappies with a sharp 
knife, and turn out the molds upon a hot dish. Pour 
a white sauce about them. 

WHITE HASH WITH POACHED EGGS 

Prepare a white sauce with 1 tablespoonful 
butter, 1 tablespoonful flour, \ teaspoonful salt, \ 
teaspoonful white pepper, and 1 cup milk. Season 1 
pint chopped lamb with salt, pepper, and onion 
juice and add it to the sauce. Melt 1 teaspoonful 
butter in a frying-pan, turn the pan so that the bottom 
and sides may be greased and pour the hash into it. 



16 PRACTICAL COOKER T 

Cook slowly for ten minutes, turn out on a heated 
platter, spread smoothly, and garnish the top with 
poached eggs and a little finely chopped parsley. 

POT ROAST OF BEEF 

Select a solid piece of rump or lower round of 
beef, weighing from six to eight pounds. Rub the 
bottom of a hot iron pot with a bit of suet; put in the 
meat, which has been wiped and dredged with salt 
and pepper; place the pot over a moderately hot fire 
and brown slowly, turning often so that it is well 
colored on all sides. When thoroughly browned add 
1 cup boiling water, 1 teaspoonful salt, \ teaspoon- 
ful pepper, and 2 cloves; cover closely and simmer 
steadily for four hours, adding a little boiling water 
from time to time as the first quantity evaporates. 
When done lift the meat to a hot platter and draw 
the pot forward where the liquor will boil. Stir and 
pour in gradually enough flour blended with cold 
water to slightly thicken. Taste and add more sea- 
soning if needed. Boil for five minutes, pour a little 
over the meat and serve the remainder in a boat. 

BROWN FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN 

Cut up the chicken and brown the pieces gradu- 
ally in 2 tablespoonfuls butter; be careful not to 
let the butter burn. When browned nicely, draw 



MEATS AND ENTREES 17 

the pieces to one side of the pan and to the fat 
add 2 tablespoonfuls flour; mix and add 1 pint 
stock or water. Stir constantly until it boils, mov- 
ing the chicken around in the sauce. Add 1 slice 
onion, 1 bay leaf, 1 tablespoonful chopped carrot, 

1 teaspoonful salt, and \ teaspoonful pepper. Cover 
the pan, push it to the back part of the stove, and 
simmer slowly for one hour. Dish it when done, 
and add to the sauce the yolk of 1 egg beaten with 

2 tablespoonfuls cream. Strain over the chicken 
and serve. 

ROAST BEEF 

The sixth, seventh, and eighth ribs make a good 
and inexpensive roast. Request the butcher to 
remove the bones and roll the meat. To bake have 
the oven very hot. Before putting in the meat 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and dredge with flour. 
Place it on a rack in the pan to keep it from the 
water in the bottom which will be used for basting. 
Baste frequently and give ten minutes for each 
pound. 

ROAST LAMB 

The best roasts are the fore and hind quarters. 
They should be well seasoned with pepper and salt, 
thoroughly cooked, and often basted. 



PART III 

MEAT AND FISH SAUCES AND 
GRAVIES 

TOMATO SAUCE 

Melt 1 tablespoonful butter, add 1 tablespoonful 
flour, and gradually 1 cup strained tomatoes, ^ tea- 
spoonful salt, ^ teaspoonful sugar, ^ teaspoonful 
white pepper, and 1 clove. 

CREAM SAUCE 

Melt 1 tablespoonful butter, add 1 tablespoonful 
flour, 1 cup milk, ^ teaspoonful salt, and ^ teaspoon- 
ful pepper. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE 

Cook 2 slices onion and 4 slices carrot in 2 table- 
spoonfuls butter for five minutes, then add 1 table- 
spoonful flour, 1 cup water or stock, and stir well for 
two minutes. Add ^ teaspoonful salt, \ teaspoonful 
pepper, and 2 unbeaten egg yolks. 
(18) 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES 19 

BROWN GRAVY 

Brown 1 tablespoonful butter, add 1 tablespoon- 
ful flour, brown again, then add gradually 1 cup 
water or stock, salt, pepper, onion juice, and parsley. 

CUCUMBER SAUCE 

In a saucepan put 1 tablespoonful butter and 1 
tablespoonful chopped onion and place over a moder- 
ate fire until the onion is tender and has slightly 
changed color. Strain the butter into a clean sauce- 
pan, return to the fire and stir in 1 tablespoonful 
flour; when well blended add slowly ^ cup white 
stock or water and stir until smooth. Add \ cup grated 
cucumber pulp, 1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar, \ 
teaspoonful salt, and ^ teaspoonful white pepper and 
simmer for five minutes. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL SAUCE 

Mix together 2 tablespoonfuls butter, the juice of 
-| lemon, and 2 sprigs parsley chopped fine; add salt 
and pepper. Use on boiled meat or fish. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

Four tablespoonfuls vinegar, 4 peppercorns, \ 
teaspoonful salt. Let boil until reduced one-half; 
let cool, then add the well-beaten yolks of 4 eggs, 



20 PRACTICAL COOKERT 

4 ounces butter, and a little nutmeg-. Cook until 
thick as cream. Take from fire, put it in another 
kettle of boiling water at back of stove and whip 
with egg beater until frothy, adding by degrees 3 
tablespoonfuls butter. When sauce is light and 
smooth it is ready. A delicious sauce for fish. 

MINT SAUCE 

Four tablespoonfuls chopped mint, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, ^ cup vinegar. Let stand one hour be- 
fore using. 

o 

CAPER SAUCE 

To one pint " Cream Sauce " add 3 tablespoonfuls 
capers. Remove from fire and add yolk of 1 egg 
and juice of half a lemon. 



PART IV 



FISH AND GAME 



HALIBUT WITH CHEESE 

Cook a two-pound steak of halibut to which has 
been added 2 slices onion, 1 sprig parsley, 1 
stalk celery, and 1 blade mace, in boiling water 
until the flesh leaves the bones. Cool, drain, and 
break into flakes. Into a saucepan put 1 tablespoon- 
ful butter, add 1 tablespoonful flour, ^ teaspoonful 
salt, and ^ teaspoonful pepper. Stir until mixed 
and add ^ cup stock and ^ cup cream. Stir until 
smooth and thick, and simmer five minutes, then re- 
move and add the beaten yolk of 1 egg. Place on a 
platter alternate layers of the fish, salt, pepper, the 
sauce, grated cheese, and chopped parsley, using 
altogether 1 heaping tablespoonful parsley and 1 cup 
cheese. Have the last layer sauce and sprinkle but- 
tered crumbs over the top. Make a border of mashed 
potatoes around the dish, brush with beaten egg, and 
brown in a hot oven. 

(21) 



22 PRACTICAL COOKERT 

HALIBUT A LA FLAMANDE 

Into a baking-pan put 1 tablespoonful chopped 
onion, 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley, 1 tablespoon- 
ful butter in small bits, \ teaspoonful salt, and \ tea- 
spoonful pepper. Lay on this the halibut which 
should be cut in a steak two inches in thickness; 
brush it over with beaten egg and cover with 1 table- 
spoonful chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful chopped 
onion, 1 tablespoonful butter in bits, and 1 teaspoon- 
ful lemon juice. Bake forty minutes in a moderate 
oven, and serve with a " Tomato " or " Bechamel 
Sauce." 

SOUTHERN RECIPE FOR COOKING QUAIL 

Put 1 tablespoonful beef fat into a frying-pan, in 
it brown the birds slowly on both sides, then add 
almost enough water to cover them. Put in 2 table- 
spoonfuls butter, then as fast as they get dry add 
water. When tender add salt and pepper to taste. 
If the birds are old it may take an hour to cook them. 

FILLETS OF DUCK. No. i 

Boil 1 head of celery in 1 quart of water for 
twenty minutes. Strain and cool. Lay in this stock 
the duck fillets allowing them to remain one hour; 
afterwards drain and brown in butter, being careful 



FISH AND GAME 23 

not to overdo them. Dish them and add to the fat in 
the pan 1 tablespoonful flour (if there are about 2 of 
fat), blend well and add 1^ cups of the celery stock, 
salt, pepper, and a little onion juice. Cook until 
thickened; pour into a platter and lay the fillets in it 
or pour it over them. 

FILLETS OF DUCK. No. 2 

Cook together for fifteen minutes, 1 quart of 
water, 1 level teaspoonful salt, 8 peppercorns, 1 
chopped onion, ^ teaspoonful ginger, and 1 teaspoon- 
ful chopped parsley. Cook the fillets in this for ten 
minutes. Take out, rub with butter — or dip in 
melted butter — dust lightly with pepper and salt and 
brown quickly in a spider in butter or broil over 
coals. Make a gravy of the stock in which the fillets 
were cooked proceeding as in last recipe. 

FISH TURBANS 

Cut 2 slices of halibut into 8 fillets. Dip them in 
melted butter; squeeze over them the juice of ^ a 
lemon, a little onion juice, salt, and pepper. Roll 
into turbans, fasten with buttered toothpicks, and 
bake for twenty minutes. Serve with " Hollandaise 
Sauce." 



PART V 



VEGETABLES 



DUCHESS POTATOES 

Mash 5 nicely boiled potatoes until fine, add 1 
tablespoonful butter, 2 of cream, pepper and salt to 
taste, and the yolk of 1 egg. Press through a pastry 
bag on greased tin in form of meringues. Brush 
with beaten egg and brown in oven. 

POTATO CROQUETTES 

Boil 5 medium-sized potatoes in well-salted water. 
When tender drain; add 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 
tablespoonful chopped parsley, 2 tablespoonfuls 
cream, \ teaspoonful pepper. Mash and beat; lastly, 
add yolk of 1 egg, stir in well; then stand over the 
fire and stir until mixture leaves bottom and sides of 
kettle. Spread on platter to cool. Afterwards mold 
in rolls two inches long, dip in beaten eggs and 
cracker crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 
(24) 



VEGETABLES 25 

VIENNOISE POTATOES 

Boil 6 large potatoes; when done, drain and mash; 
add salt, pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, the yolks of 
4 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, and 4 of grated 
mild cheese. Make into balls the size of an egg, 
then roll lightly on a floured board, making the ends 
pointed like a vienna roll. Put on a greased pan, 
brush with beaten egg, make two slanting cuts on the 
top of each, and brown in a hot oven. 

SCALLOPED CORN AND TOMATOES 

Mix together 1 pint raw corn scraped from- the 
cob, 1 pint tomatoes skinned and cut fine, 1^ tea- 
spoonfuls salt, ^ teaspoonful pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls 
butter, and 1 teaspoonful sugar. Pour this into a 
buttered baking-dish and cover the top with buttered 
crumbs. Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. 

TOMATO FRICASSEE 

Cook together | can tomatoes, 1 tablespoonful but- 
ter, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. When the 
tomatoes are very soft add a pinch of baking soda. 
When the foam passes off add three beaten eggs, 
stir and take from the fire as soon as they begin to 
thicken. 



26 PRACTICAL COOKER T 

CARROT TIMBALES 

Grate 3 good -sized carrots; add to them \ cup 
cream, 4 eggs beaten until very light, 1 teaspoon- 
ful salt, and a dash of pepper. Fill into small 
custard-cups, stand in a baking-pan of boiling water, 
and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. If 
the carrots are old and rather large they had better 
be boiled slightly before being grated for the tim- 
bales. 

CREAMED POTATOES 

Chop 6 potatoes (boiled) coarsely, season with salt 
and pepper, and turn them into a well-buttered shal- 
low pan. Pour over them a scant cup of thin cream, 
then 3 tablespoonfuls melted butter, and place in 
a very hot oven until well browned. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN 

Make a sauce by melting 1 tablespoonful butter, 
adding 1 tablespoonful flour, \ teaspoonful salt, \ tea- 
spoonful pepper, and gradually one cup milk, cooking 
until smooth and thick. Butter a dish, put in it 
alternate layers of sliced potatoes (2 cups of potatoes 
will be required in all) and the sauce; season the 
potatoes lightly. Sprinkle the top with buttered 
bread crumbs and bake until well browned, about 
twenty minutes. 



VEGETABLES 27 

CORN OYSTERS 

One cup corn, 1 egg beaten, \ teaspoonful salt, a 
little pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 1 tablespoonful 
milk, \ teaspoonful baking powder. Mix all together 
and drop by tablespoonfuls on a greased griddle. 
Fry a delicate brown on both sides. 

CREAMED ASPARAGUS 

Cook until tender, lay on toast, and pour over the 
following sauce: 

Melt one tablespoonful butter, add 1 tablespoonful 
flour, rub together until smooth; add gradually 1 cup 
of the water in which the asparagus was cooked, 1 
tablespoonful lemon juice, and a seasoning of salt 
and pepper. When smooth and thick, serve. 

ASPARAGUS FILLING FOR PATTIES 

Make a sauce of 3 level tablespoonfuls each of 
butter and flour, ^ cup each of chicken or veal 
broth, cream, and the water in which the asparagus 
was cooked. Add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, 1 tea- 
spoonful lemon juice, salt, pepper, and a bunch of hot 
asparagus cut in small pieces and cooked until 
tender. 

BAKED MACARONI 

To prepare the macaroni for baking, break \ 
pound of it into three-inch pieces and put into 



28 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

boiling salted water. Boil until tender, which will 
be in from twenty-five to thirty-five minutes; drain 
in a colander and pour cold water through to rinse 
off the pieces and keep them from sticking. Cut 
into inch pieces, lay the strips on a board paral- 
lel to each other, and cut them all through at once 
with a sharp knife. Butter a shallow pudding-dish, 
and put the macaroni into it. Cover with a white 
sauce made with 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 tablespoon- 
ful flour, 1^ cups milk, and a seasoning of salt and 
pepper. For the top mix § cup bread crumbs 
with \ cup melted butter, and sprinkle over. Bake 
until crumbs are brown. 

MACARONI WITH CHEESE 

Prepare as above mixing \ cup grated cheese 
with the macaroni and \ cup with the crumbs for 
the top. Bake in a quick oven until brown. 



PART VI 



EGG DISHES 



POACHED EGG SOUFFLES WITH CHEESE 

Put in a saucepan 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 table- 
spoonful flour, ^ teaspoonful salt, and a clash of 
cayenne. Set over the fire, and when mixed add 
gradually 1 pint milk and stir until thick and smooth, 
then add ^ cup grated Swiss cheese and the beaten 
yolks of 3 eggs; stir until thickened and set aside to 
cool. Whip the whites of the eggs until stiff and 
dry, and cut lightly into the cold mixture. Poach 6 
fresh eggs in salted water until set, drain on a cloth, 
and place each on a square of buttered toast. Cover 
completely with the souffle batter, sprinkle thickly 
with grated cheese, and set in a hot oven until 
browned. 

EGG TIMBALES 

Four eggs, scant teaspoonful salt, 10 drops onion 
juice, a dash of white and cayenne pepper, 1 tea- 

(29) 



30 PRACTICAL COOKER Y 

spoonful chopped parsley, and 1 cup milk. Pour in 
buttered cups, set in pan half filled with hot water, 
and bake until centres are firm. Serve with "Tomato 
Sauce." 

EGGS AND MUSHROOMS 

Peel \ pound of fresh mushrooms and cut with a 
silver knife. Put in a saucepan with 2 tablespoon- 
fuls butter, cover and cook gently for fifteen minutes. 
Beat together 5 eggs, add \ cup cream and salt and 
pepper. Pour them over the mushrooms, stir until 
cooked to a soft scramble, and serve on hot toast. 

STEWED EGGS 

Two Spanish onions, 4 hard-boiled eggs, 2 table- 
spoonfuls butter, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, £ pint milk 
or cream, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. 
Fry the onions in the butter until very tender, add 
the flour, mix well, add the milk and stir until thick- 
ened. Season, add the eggs cut in slices, simmer ten 
minutes, and serve with a garnish of strips of fried 
bread. 

EGGS WITH CHEESE 

For each person take 1 slice of bread, ^ cup grated 
cheese, and 1 egg. For 4 slices of bread take ^ pint 
milk and 1 egg. Beat the egg enough to mix and 



EGG DISHES 31 

add the milk. Dip each slice of bread in the mixture, 
then lay on a greased dish. Sprinkle over the grated 
cheese and dust with salt and pepper. Break the 
eggs separately as if for poaching, then slide 1 care- 
fully on each slice of bread. Put in a hot oven until 
the whites are set, then serve. 

CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE 

In making a chocolate souffle melt 1 tablespoonful 
butter in a double boiler, blend in 2 tablespoonfuls 
flour, add 1 cup milk and \ cup grated chocolate 
(melted over steam or on the back part of the stove), 
and stir until smooth and thick. Now add the yolks 
of 4 eggs and \ cup sugar beaten together until very 
light; cook until the yolks have had time to thicken, 
then stand away to cool. Half an hour before serv- 
ing add the whites of 5 eggs beaten until very stiff 
and dry, fill into a buttered baking-dish, and bake. 
The same recipe should be followed in making cara- 
mel souffle, only using \ cup brown caramel instead 
of other sweetening. 

SOUFFLE FLOAT 

Souffle float is made bj beating the whites of 
eggs until very stiff, adding then -| tablespoonful 
sifted powdered sugar for each egg. Heap these 
beaten and sweetened whites into small, flat-bottomed 



32 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

cups, and stand in a covered steamer over boiling 
water long enough to cook them. When done turn 
from the cups gently, scoop out 1 teaspoonful from 
the top of' each white mound, fill with a rich custard 
( made from the yolks of the eggs ), and pour more 
custard around the base. The cooked whites do not 
fall, so this dessert may be served ice cold. Orange 
makes a delicious flavoring for the custard. 

FRENCH OMELET 

Separate 4 eggs, stir yolks and pinch of salt to- 
gether; now add 1 tablespoonful flour which has 
been dissolved in 1 small cup sweet milk, lastly fold 
in the 4 stiffly beaten whites of eggs. 

LEMON SOUFFLE 

Melt 2 tablespoonfuls butter in a double boiler, 
add 2 tablespoonfuls flour and blend well; how add 1 
cup milk and cook until thickened. Beat the yolks 
of 4 eggs with 4 tablespoonfuls sugar until thick and 
light and add to the mixture in boiler, also the grated 
zest from a lemon rind and a pinch of salt. Cook until 
the yolks have thickened. Cool and half an hour be- 
fore serving add the stiffly beaten whites of the 4 eggs. 
Fill into a buttered dish and bake in a moderately quick 
oven. Serve at once with any delicate sauce preferred. 

Orange and vanilla souffles are made the same. 



PART VII 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 



NUT AND EGG SALAD 

Four hard-boiled eggs, 1 cup chopped walnuts, 12 
whole walnut meats, 1 bunch parsley. Remove yolks 
from 2 of the eggs and chop the rest fine, season with 
salt and pepper; chop nuts and season also. On a 
small platter or salad dish put a layer of eggs, sprinkle 
with boiled dressing, and then a layer of the nuts. 
Alternate in this way until all are used up. Use the 
reserved yolks for the top, rubbing them through a 
sieve or chopping them fine and sprinkling them over. 
Put a row of whole meats around dish and finish with 
a border of parsley. 

DATE AND ALMOND SALAD 

One pound dates, 2 dozen almonds, 2 tablespoon- 

fuls grated cocoanut, 1 lemon, 1 bunch parsley. Cut 

dates in small pieces; blanch and brown almonds, 

chop fine and add to dates; mix with boiled dressing 

3 (33) 



34 PRACTICAL COOKERT 

and pile in neat heap on a platter. Sprinkle with 
grated cocoanut and garnish with sprigs of parsley 
and lemon cut in slices and then in eights. 

SALAD DRESSING 

Beat 2 eggs, add 5 tablespoonfuls vinegar, 1 des- 
sert-spoonful sugar, \ teaspoonful mustard, \ tea- 
spoonful butter and stir over fire until it thickens; 
don't let it boil. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

Put into a bowl \ teaspoonful salt, \ teaspoonful 
white pepper, add gradually 6 tablespoonfuls salad 
oil, rubbing all the while; now add slowly 2 table- 
spoonfuls vinegar and, if liked, 10 drops onion juice 
or a few drops of any prepared sauce or catsup. 

WHITE DRESSING 

Select a light-colored yolk of egg; drop it into a 
clean, cold bowl; mix it lightly; add just as much 
salt as you can take between the thumb and finger; 
then begin to add, drop by drop, 6 tablespoonfuls 
salad oil. The dressing should be very thick; add 
the oil slowly. Stand the bowl in another contain- 
ing a little cracked ice so that you may beat con- 
stantly, reducing the color of the egg; now add 
slowly 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, then stir in 6 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 35 

tablespoonfuls cream that has been whipped to a 
stiff froth. This dressing, if properly made, is almost 
as white as whipped cream, while having the flavor of 
" Mayonnaise Dressing." 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Put the yolks of 2 eggs in a bowl, stir lightly 
with a fork; add ^ teaspoonful salt and then very 
carefully, almost drop by drop, the oil. After 1 gill 
has been used begin to alternate vinegar with the 
oil occasionally, using to 1 cup of the oil 2 table- 
spoonfuls vinegar. When done it should be smooth 
and thick. Have all the ingredients very cold. 
Half a cup of whipped cream makes a nice addition 
and neutralizes the oil flavor which many dislike. 
Season with salt and pepper. 

CREAM DRESSING 

Three hard-boiled egg-yolks rubbed smooth and 
beaten with 1 raw yolk and 1 level teaspoonful each 
of mustard, salt, and sugar; add 1 cup thick 
cream and 2 spoonfuls tarragon vinegar. 

JULIENNE SALAD 

Cut pared potatoes into narrow strips and simmer 
in seasoned white stock until barely tender. When 
cool mix with " Salad Dressing " and serve on lettuce 
or cress leaves. 



36 PRACTICAL COOKERT 

POTATO SALAD 

Six medium-sized potatoes boiled and diced, 1 
tablespoonful chopped parsley, 10 drops onion juice, 
1 large fresh cucumber diced, 1 teaspoonful salt, \ 
teaspoonful pepper, 6 tablespoonfuls melted butter, 
and 4 tablespoonfuls vinegar. Stand in refrigerator 
until ready to serve, then mix with enough cooked 
dressing to make palatable. Garnish and serve. 
In winter \ cup chopped walnuts or 1 cup celery 
chopped fine may be substituted for the cucumber. 

APPLE AND NUT SALAD 

Cover \ pound shelled walnuts with boiling water; 
let them stand for fifteen minutes, then rub off the 
brown skins. Cool and add an equal quantity of 
sliced apples. Mix with " Mayonnaise Dressing " and 
serve. 

CHICKEN SALAD 

Two cups each diced chicken and celery. Mix to- 
gether and season with salt, pepper, vinegar, and 
salad oil. Let it stand one hour, then mix with 
enough " Mayonnaise Dressing " to make sufficiently 
moist and palatable. Garnish and serve. 



PART VIII 

BREAD, MUFFINS, AND GRIDDLE 
CAKES 



RECIPE FOR BREAD 

Dissolve 2 cakes compressed yeast in 1 quart milk 
and water mixed, temperature 85° or lukewarm; add 
1 teaspoonful salt and 3 quarts flour. To make 
dough, mix and knead a little; put in a gallon disk 
and cover to exclude air; when it raises the lid, knead 
to shape in loaves and put in tins half full, and when 
full bake for fifty minutes. 

Fleischman's Compressed Yeast is the most reli- 
able: it has a yellow label. 

FRENCH ROLLS 

One pint milk, 1^ rounded tablespoonfuls butter, 
1^ rounded tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 cake Fleischman's 
Compressed Yeast, ^ teaspoonful salt, and flour suffi- 
cient to make a dough just stiff enough to handle. 
Heat the milk good lukewarm, dissolve the yeast and 

(37) 



68 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

to it add the sugar, butter, salt, and lastly the flour. 
Let it raise until double its bulk, then shape, let get 
light, and bake. 

COFFEE CAKE 

One cup milk, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 2 
tablespoonfuls butter, a little cinnamon and vanilla, 1 
cake Fleischman's Compressed Yeast, and flour suffi- 
cient to make dough. Proceed as for rolls. When 
dough is light roll it out and spread on a greased 
pan, brush the top with milk, cover to exclude air, and 
after five minutes brush with melted butter; strew 
the following streussel over it: 

Streussel — Two ounces flour, 1 ounce sugar, and 1 
ounce butter; mix together until crumbly, and add 
cinnamon. Sprinkle over cake. Let it get very 
light and bake. 

BUCKWHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 

Dissolve 1 cake Fleischman's Compressed Yeast 
in 1 quart water, add a little salt, 1 egg, 3 table- 
spoonfuls molasses, and flour enough to make a bat- 
ter. 

If the water is good lukewarm for the above, they 
will be ready for frying one hour after setting. If 
cold water is used they may be set in the evening 
and used the next morning. 



BREAD, MUFFINS, AND CAKES 39 



WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 

Mix and sift together ^ pound flour, 1 ounce sugar, 
\ ounce baking powder, and a little salt. Add 1 egg 
and sufficient sweet milk to make a batter. 



BISCUIT 

Two pounds flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Sift together and rub in ^ pound butter, a little salt, 
and make into dough with sweet milk. 



CORN MUFFINS 

Two and one-half ounces sugar, 1^ ounces butter, 2 
eggs; stir all together, add 1 cup milk, stir again, 
lastly add 6 ounces corn meal, 6 ounces flour, and 1 
heaping teaspoonful baking powder, previously mixed 
together. Bake in greased muffin pans. 

QUEEN OF MUFFINS 

Cream ^ cup butter, add gradually 1 cup sugar, 
then 2 well-beaten eggs. Sift together 3 cups flour 
and 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder and add alter- 
nately with 1 cup milk to the first mixture. Beat for 
a minute and bake. 



40 



PRACTICAL COOKER!' 



BETTER THAN BUTTER 
CHEAPER THAN LARD 

W esson's C ooking Qil 

This Cooking Oil possesses many advantages over 
butter and lard for all cooking purposes. 

It is ODORLESS, a quality which will commend 
itself to all housekeepers. 

It is ECONOMICAL, as one pound will go twice as 
far as the same quantity of butter or lard. 

It is HEALTHFUL, as confirmed dyspeptics who 
cannot eat food fried in lard can eat the same food 
cooked in Wesson Oil with impunity. 



WESSON'S SALAD OIL 

Equal to imported oil at a more satisfactory price. 
Read Mrs. Rorer's testimonial: 

Philadelphia, January 25th, 1900. 
WESSON PROCESS CO. 

Gentlemen : — Both Brands of Wesson Oil have now been 
most thoroughly tested, and both give excellent results. The 
Wesson Salad Oil is certainly sweet and bland, and makes up 
easily into all sorts of salad dressings. 

Fully believing as I do that oil is the only fat to use for 
frying purposes, I most heartily indorse the Wesson Cooking Oil, 
which has given most favorable results. 

Very truly vours, 

SARAH TYSON RORER. 

The Wesson Oils are just being introduced to 
the trade and should be on sale at all high=class 
grocers. 



PART IX 



PASTRY 



PIE CRUST 

Rub together until of an even color ^ pound flour 
and ^ pound butter, then add just enough cold water 
to make it merely hold together. Roll out and use. 

PUFF PASTE 

One-half pound butter, | pound pastry flour, and 
a little ice-water. Wash butter and pinch off a lump 
the size of an egg; flatten out remainder into a square 
cake and put both it and the lump in ice-water to 
chill. Sift flour and work the lump of butter into it 
as for ordinary pie crust; add enough ice- water to 
make a stiff paste. Roll out and lay the square of 
butter on one half, fold the other half over, and roll 
out again. Fold and roll in this way six times, chill- 
ing between rollings if it show any tendency to stick 
to board, otherwise between every two rollings. After 
sixth rolling fold and put in refrigerator to become 

(41) 



42 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

thoroughly chilled. When it has been rolled the 
sixth time it is ready to be cut out in shells or used 
for pies, tarts, etc. If possible, make in a cold room, 
and have all the ingredients cold. 

SWEDISH TIMBALE CASES 

Beat the yolks of 2 eggs, add \ cup cold water, 
then stir in 1 cup flour, add \ teaspoonful salt and 
beat until smooth, add 1 tablespoonful olive oil, beat 
again, then stir in the whites of 2 eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth. Stand away for two hours before using. 
Heat your timbale iron in the hot fat for ten min- 
utes, then drain a second, dip in the batter until well 
coated, then back again in the smoking fat, and cook 
until light yellow and crisp. 

LEMON CREAM FILLING FOR PIE 

Mix together 3 ounces sugar, 1^ ounces flour, and 
2 eggs; when smooth add gradually 1 pint milk. 
Cook in double boiler until thickened, stirring con- 
stantly. Afterwards add the juice and grated rind of 
1 lemon. 

CREAM PRUNE PIE 

Wash thoroughly 1 pound prunes, cover with fresh 
cold water, and set aside over night. Put in a 
double boiler, adding more water, if necessary, to 



PASTRT 43 

cover them and simmer slowly until very tender. 
Remove the stones and rub the prunes through a col- 
ander, adding sufficient juice to moisten them. Meas- 
ure and to each cup of pulp allow 1 cup cream, the 
yolks of 4 well-beaten eggs, and ^ cup sugar. 
Line a pie plate with a good crust, fill with the mix- 
ture, and bake in a moderate oven. Spread with a 
meringue made of the whites of 2 of the eggs and 
2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar whipped together 
until stiff; dust well with sugar and return to the 
oven longr enough to color. 

MERINGUE FOR PIE 

Beat stiff whites of 3 eggs, afterwards add 3 heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls fine sugar; use after pie is cold. 
Brown in oven. 

COCOANUT CREAM PIE 

Use recipe for " Lemon Cream Filling for Pie" but 
omit the lemon and flavor instead with vanilla, add- 
ing also 2 tablespoonfuls grated cocoanut. 

BANANA CREAM PIE 

Same as " Lemon Cream Filling for Pie," except- 
ing the lemon, instead of which use vanilla flavoring 
and 2 chopped bananas. 



44 PRACTICAL COOKER T 

Peter Cooper's 

CLARIFIED 

GELATINE 



Wine Jellies, 

Blanc Mange, 

Charlotte Russe, 
Jellifying all kinds of Fruits, Etc. 



Our PULVERIZED GELATINE is the most convenient 
for family use, as it takes much less time to dissolve. 

FOR SALE BY ALL GROCERS. 



WAREHOUSE — No. 13 Burling Slip., NEW YORK CITY. 



PART X 



PUDDINGS AND PUDDING SAUCES 



INDIAN PUDDING 

One quart milk, 4 ounces corn meal, 2 ounces but- 
ter; stir together and cook in double boiler for 
twenty minutes, then add 4 ounces sugar, 3 eggs, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful ginger; these latter 
stirred together for a few minutes. After adding 
cook few minutes longer, then pour into a buttered 
mold and bake thirty minutes. 

HARD SAUCE 

Cream 4 ounces butter and 4 ounces sugar to- 
gether; when light grate nutmeg over top and set to 
cool for half an hour. 

CALIFORNIA FRUIT PUDDING 

To one quart cake crumbs add 1 pint thin boiled 
custard; mix, then add 1 cup canned peaches, 2 

(45) 



46 PRACTICAL COOKER T 

ounces citron cut fine, 2 ounces raisins. Fill muffin 
or tiinbale cups (greased) with the pudding. Set in 
pan of hot water and bake twenty minutes. 

GRAHAM PUDDING 

Mix thoroughly and sift 1^ cups Graham flour, 
1-| level teaspoonfuls baking powder, -| teaspoonful 
salt. To ^ cup melted butter add ^ cup milk, ^ cup 
molasses, 1 egg well beaten, the flour and baking 
powder, and 1 cup chopped raisins. Turn into a 
buttered mold and steam two and one-half hours. 
Serve with " Hard " or " Lemon Sauce." 

CUSTARD PUDDING 

Five eggs, 5 ounces sugar; beat together for two 
minutes; add 1 quart sweet milk and a little vanilla. 
Bake in buttered tin molds which have been placed 
in a dripping-pan half filled with hot water. 

APRICOT SHORTCAKE 

Ten ounces flour, ^ teaspoonful salt, 1 large tea- 
spoonful baking powder, 2 ounces sugar. Mix all to- 
gether then rub in — as for biscuit dough — 2 ounces 
butter, and make into dough with ^ cup sweet milk. 
Roll out and bake in a greased layer-cake pan. Cool 
and split open; spread with butter, and then with 



PUDDINGS AND PUDDING SAUCES 47 

canned apricots — which have been robbed of the 
juice, chopped fine, and sweetened with 4 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar. Finish with a meringue made of whites 
of 2 eggs and 2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 
Serve with " Custard Sauce." 

RICE CROQUETTES 

Soak 4 ounces rice in cold water for one hour; 
strain and put in double boiler with 2 cups milk, and 
^ teaspoonful salt; when tender add quickly yolks of 
2 eggs, 2 ounces sugar, and ^ teaspoonful vanilla. 
When cold mold into croquettes, dip in eggs and 
cracker crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE 

One teaspoonful cornstarch, 3 ounces sugar; mix 
together and add 1 cup water; cook for two minutes, 
then add juice of half a lemon, 1 teaspoonful butter, 
a few drops strawberry extract, and the same of 
fruit coloring. 

CUSTARD SAUCE 

Four ounces sugar, | ounce flour, 2 eggs; stir all 
together, then add 2 cups sweet milk, and a small 
piece of stick cinnamon bark; cook in double boiler, 
stirring constantly; flavor with vanilla. 



48 PRACTICAL COOKER T 

WHIPPED CREAM 

Beat to stiff froth 1 cup thick sweet cream, then 
add \ teaspoonful vanilla and 2 ounces sugar. 

APRICOT SAUCE 

Put in a saucepan ^ cup of the syrup from a can 
of apricots, add 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, the yellow 
rind of \ of a lemon, and \ inch stick cinnamon. 
Simmer ten minutes, thicken with 1 teaspoonful flour 
and cook two minutes longer. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

Boil 1 cup each of water and sugar for five 
minutes. Melt 6 tablespoonfuls grated chocolate in 
a saucepan by standing it in hot water or over a tea- 
kettle, add the boiling syrup to it, blending thor- 
oughly. Now dissolve 1 tablespoonful arrowroot in 
|^ cup milk, and add to the sauce mixture. Boil 
three minutes, add \ teaspoonful vanilla, and strain. 

MAPLE SAUCE 

To one pound powdered maple sugar add \ cup 
water and boil until it will thread from a fork. Pour 
this slowly on the stiffly beaten whites of 2 eggs, 
stirring all the time. Lastly add \ cup cream. 



PUDDINGS AND PUDDING SAUCES 49 



FOAMY SAUCE 

Add the stiffly beaten whites of 2 eggs to the recipe 
for " Hard Sauce" and stir constantly over hot water 
until foamy throughout. 

FRUIT SAUCE 

Add to the " Foamy Sauce " recipe ^ cup sweetened 
fruit juice from fresh fruit. 

MARYLAND SAUCE 

Cream well 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 4 tablespoon- 
fuls brown sugar, and yolks of 2 eggs. Add ^ cup 
peach syrup and a small piece of cinnamon bark. 
Stir over hot water until it thickens. 

FOAM TART 

Two ounces A sugar, 6 ounces flour, 4 ounces but- 
ter, 1 egg. Bake in a round cake, about as thick as a 
cookie; spread when cold with thick boiled custard 
(see " Cream Puff Filling "), then with meringue, and 
brown in a mild oven. 

LEMON CREAM PUDDING 

Beat the yolks of 4 eggs with 4 tablespoonfuls 
sugar, add the juice and rind of 1 large lemon and 2 
4 



50 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

tablespoonfuls hot water; cook until it thickens. 
Take from the fire and stir in the whites of 4 eggs, 
beaten stiff with 2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 
Serve cold. 

DATES WITH WHIPPED CREAM 

Stuff dates with walnut meats, stew in water until 
tender; add sugar and lemon juice to taste and when 
cold serve with " Whipped Cream." 

RICE PUFFS 

Add to 1 pint cold rice 1 cup milk, 3 well- 
beaten eggs, 1 tablespoonful melted butter, 1 tea- 
spoonful baking powder, 1 tablespoonful sugar, a 
little salt, and enough flour to make a thick batter. 
Drop by spoonfuls in hot deep fat and fry a delicate 
brown. Serve dusted with sugar or with any liquid 
pudding sauce. 

RICE AND PEACH PUDDING 

Boil J? cup rice (previously soaked in cold water 
for 1 hour) in plenty of water. When barely tender 
drain. Put in a double boiler, add enough milk to 
cover, and cook slowly until the milk is absorbed. 
Take from fire, add 1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoonful but- 
ter, and 2 well-beaten eggs. Put a half-inch layer of 



PUDDINGS AND PUDDING SAUCES 51 

this in a buttered dish, add a layer of halved peaches, 
and continue until the dish is full. Bake twenty 
minutes in a hot oven if the peaches are canned, forty 
minutes if they are fresh. Serve with " Maryland 
Sauce." 

TAPIOCA CREAM PUDDING 

Soak 1 cup tapioca over night in milk. Stir into 
it the next day the yolks of 3 eggs well beaten with 
1 cup sugar. Bring 1 quart milk to a boil and stir in 
the tapioca. Cook until it has thickened, then take it 
off the fire and stir in the whites of the eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth. Flavor to taste. Meringue the top 
and brown in the oven delicately. 



PART XI 



CAKES 



WHITE CAKE 

Cream \ cup butter; add gradually ^ cup sugar. 
Measure ^ pint water and 1 pint flour; add to the 
Hour 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder and sift. Add 
first a little water, then a little flour alternately until 
both are used. Beat thoroughly for at least five 
minutes, then fold in carefully the well-beaten whites 
of 5 eggs. Bake in three layers. 

DARK FRUIT CAKE 

Cream together 1 pound butter and 1 pound 
sugar; add gradually 1 dozen unbeaten eggs, then 1 
teaspoonful mixed spices, 1 teaspoonful Souders's 
Vanilla, 3 tablespoonfuls dark molasses. Mix 3 
pounds raisins, 2 pounds currants, ^ pound citron cut 
fine, ^ pound orange peel also cut fine, and 4 ounces 
almonds chopped with 2 ounces flour and add to 
mixture. Lastly add 1 pound flour. 
(52) 



CAKES 53 



GENOA CAKE 

One-half pound butter, \ pound sugar, rub to a 
cream; stir in gradually 6 eggs; add a little mace 
and 10 ounces flour; beat well for a minute, then add 
1^ pounds raisins, \ pound citron cut fine, the grated 
rind of 1 lemon, 2 ounces chopped almonds. Mix 
well, put in tin lined with paper, sprinkle top with 
chopped almonds, and bake in slow oven. 



DELICATE CAKE 

Ten ounces sugar, 6 ounces butter, cream well to- 
gether, then add 1 cup sweet milk, 13-| ounces flour 
mixed with 1 teaspoonful baking powder, 1 teaspoon- 
ful vanilla, and lastly the stiffly beaten whites of 6 
eofcrs. Bake in slow oven. 



SUNSHINE CAKE 

Stir together until creamy, the following ingredi- 
ents: yolks of 3 eggs, 3 ounces sugar, ^ teaspoonful 
lemon extract; mix in lightly the stiffly beaten whites 
of 6 eggs. Lastly add the following, which are first 
mixed well together: 4 ounces flour, 2 ounces sugar, 
and 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. Put in ungreased 
pan and bake in moderate oven thirty minutes. 



54 PRACTICAL COOKERT 



LOAF AND LAYER CAKE 

One-half pound sugar, 3 ounces butter, 2 eggs, 
flavor with lemon or vanilla. Stir all together with 1 
cup milk, add 12 ounces flour mixed with 1^ tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder. Baking powder and flour 
should be mixed before usinxr. 



GINGERBREAD 

One-half pound sugar, 6 ounces butter, 2 eggs, 
2 teaspoonfuls soda, 1 pint molasses, 1 teaspoonful 
mixed spices or ginger only if preferred; stir, then 
add 1 pint milk and stir again, and lastly add 2 
pounds sifted flour. 

SPONGE CAKE 

Stir to a sponge 6 yolks, \ pound sugar, and 1 
teaspoonful lemon extract; mix in lightly the stiffly 
beaten whites of 6 eggs and lastly \ pound sifted 
flour. 

ALBERT CAKE 

Cream \ pound sugar, 4 ounces butter; stir in 3 
unbeaten eggs, a little vanilla, 1 cup sweet milk, and 
1 pound flour mixed with £ ounce baking powder. 
Bake in muffin cups. 



CAKES 55 

CREAM PUFFS 

One cup water, 3 ounces butter, a pinch of ammo- 
nia; let it come to a boil, then stir in 5 ounces flour; 
boil until a stiff paste (a minute). Remove from fire, 
stir in gradually 5 eggs (unbeaten); drop on tins that 
have been greased and then dusted with flour, two 
inches apart. Bake thirty-five minutes. 

Filling — One pint milk, 3 ounces sugar, 2 eggs, 
1 ounce flour; flavor with vanilla. Cook in double 
boiler. Cut open cream puffs when cold and fill with 
this custard. 

CRULLERS 

Five ounces sugar, 1^ ounces butter, 2 eggs, a 
little flavoring, and salt. Mix together and stir in 1 
cup sweet milk, add 1^ pounds flour, through which 
-| ounce baking powder has been thoroughly sifted. 

PARIS BUNS 

Mix together 2^ ounces sugar, 2^ ounces butter, 1 
vgg, and a little vanilla; add ^ cup milk and lastly 
10 ounces flour and ^ ounce baking powder. 

SWEDISH SHORTCAKE 

Four ounces butter, 4 ounces sugar; stir to a 
cream; add 2 eggs, a little cinnamon and vanilla, 



56 PRACTICAL COOKERT 

\ ounce lump ammonia; stir again, and lastly add A 
pound flour. 



CHOCOLATE CAKE, MARSHMALLOW 
FROSTING 

Cream 4 ounces butter; add \ cup cocoa, the 
beaten yolks of 4 eggs, 8 ounces sugar, 1 teaspoonful 
cinnamon, and \ cup water, then the beaten whites of 
3 eggs and 5 ounces flour, with 1 teaspoonful baking 
powder. Decorate with " Boiled Frosting," to which 
dissolved marshmallows are added. 



SCOTCH COOKIES 

One- half pound sugar, 4 ounces butter, 1^ table- 
spoonfuls molasses, \ teaspoonful mixed spices, 2 
eggs; mix all together, and add lastly 13 ounces 
flour mixed with 1 teaspoonful soda and ammonia. 
Do not add more liquid as this recipe is just right. 
Glaise tops with a wash made of 1 egg, or the yolk 
only and 1 tablespoonful milk beaten together, be- 
fore baking. 

SUGAR COOKIES 

One-half pound sugar, \ pound butter, 1 egg, a 
little flavoring; stir all together, then add ^ cup sweet 



CAKES 57 

milk, and lastly 14 ounces flour and 1 teaspoonful 
ammonia. Roil out, dredge with sugar, cut in cir- 
cles, and bake. 

CHEESE STICKS 

Three ounces grated cheese, 4 ounces butter, 1 
teaspoonful sugar, ^ teaspoonful salt, a little white 
pepper and nutmeg, 1 egg, and 2 tablespoonfuls 
sweet cream; mix all these ingredients together, then 
add 6 ounces flour; roll out, cut in strips six inches 
long and one-fourth inch wide. Bake on greased 
tins in bread oven. 



ALMOND MACAROONS 

One-half pound almond paste, £ pound powdered 
sugar, whites of 5 eggs, ^ teaspoonful flour. Mix to 
a paste by adding eggs gradually to the other ingre- 
dients. Drop from a spoon or pastry bag onto paper 
and bake in a mild oven. 



VANILLA WAFERS 

Cream 4 ounces powdered sugar and 4 ounces 
butter; stir in 1 egg, a little vanilla, 3 tablespoonfuls 
milk, and 4 ounces sifted flour. Drop in small dots 
on greased tin. 



58 PRACTICAL COOKER T 

TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

1 rounded tablespoonful butter 1 ounce 

1 " " sugar 1 ounce 

2 " " flour 1 ounce 

1 pint butter 1 pound 

1 " granulated sugar 1 pound 

1 " sifted flour ^ pound 

2 level teaspoonfuls baking powder ^ ounce 

1 cup corn meal 6 ounces 

RECIPE FOR BAKING POWDER. No. i 

Mix well and sift together 1 pound cream of tartar 
and ^ pound cornstarch; add ^ pound baking soda 
and sift again several times. Keep in tin cans, and 
after two weeks, during which time it is undergoing 
the sweating process, sift again. It is ready for use 
immediately after first mixing. 

RECIPE FOR BAKING POWDER. No. 2 

Mix together ^ pound tartaric acid, 1^ pounds 
cornstarch, and 1^ pounds cream of tartar. Sift sev- 
eral times; add 1^ pounds soda. Sift again. Put in 
close cans and sift again after two weeks, after which 
it will not lump again. 



PART XII 



CAKE FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS 



BOILED FROSTING 

Boil together until it will spin a thread, 1 cup 
granulated sugar and ^ cup water. Pour slowly over 
the stiffly beaten whites of 2 eggs, beating vigor- 
ously all the time; set on ice and beat five minutes; 
flavor with -J teaspoonful each vanilla, orange, and 
strawberry extracts. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

Stir together 6 ounces powdered or confectioners' 
sugar and 2 tablespoonfuls lukewarm water; add ^ 
ounce unsweetened chocolate which has been shaved 
fine and melted in the oven. Flavor with Souders's 
Vanilla. Spread on cake at once. 

ORANGE FROSTING 

Grated rind of 1 orange, 1 tablespoonful orange 
juice, 1 teaspoonful lemon juice; let stand fifteen 

(59) 



60 PRACTICAL COOKERY 

minutes. Strain, add powdered sugar to thicken and 
1 beaten egg yolk. 

CREAM FROSTING 

One cup granulated sugar, 5 tablespoonfuls cream. 
Boil until thickened, about four minutes. Take from 
fire, flavor, and beat until white and creamy. Spread 
at once. 

CONFECTIONERS' ICING 

Stir 2 cups powdered sugar into the unbeaten 
whites of 2 eggs. Whip until light. Flavor. 

LEMON FILLING FOR CAKE 

One-half cup granulated sugar, 1 tablespoonful 
flour, 1 teaspoonful butter, the juice and grated rind 
of 1 hsrnon, -and 1 egg- Mix in order given and cook 
in double boiler until thickened. 

BANANA FILLING FOR CAKE 

Soak ^ box gelatine in ^ cup cold water for half 
an hour. Whip ^ pint cream to a stiff froth; add ^ 
cup powdered sugar and 6 bananas chopped very 
fine. Melt the gelatine over hot water and add to 
the banana mixture. Stir constantly until thickened, 
then use. The cake should be cold. 



CAKE FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS 61 

FIG FILLING 

One-half pound chopped figs, ^ cup sugar, ^ cup 
water, and juice of 1 lemon. Mix in this order and 
cook until thick enough to spread. 

ORANGE FILLING 

One-half cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 heaping tablespoon- 
ful flour, 1 teaspoonful butter, rind and juice of ^ an 
orange, ^ tablespoonful lemon juice. Mix in order 
given. Bring to a boil, then cook in a double boiler 
for ten minutes. 

COFFEE FILLING 

Mix together ^ cup sugar, 1 tablespoonful flour, 
and 2 eggs; add 1 gill strong coffee, 1 cup cream, 
and a pinch soda, and cook in double boiler until 
thickened. Then add ^ cup chopped English wal- 
nuts and set away to cool. 



PART XIII 



COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 



LEMON SPONGE DESSERT 

Dissolve -| ounce gelatine in the juice of 2 lemons, 
add the grated rind of 1 and let stand half an hour, 
then put it over hot water to melt. Separate 6 eggs, 
add to the yolks ^ pound sugar and 1 teaspoonful 
lemon extract; stir to a sponge, stand on ice, and add 
melted gelatine; stir for five minutes. Lastly mix in 
the stiffly beaten whites of 6 eggs and stand on ice 
for one hour. 

ORANGE SHERBET 

One quart water, 1^ pounds sugar, 1 cup apricot 
juice, the juice of 6 oranges, and the yolk of 1 egg. 
Freeze. 

MAPLE PARFAIT 

Beat the yolks of 6 eggs until light, add f cup 
maple syrup; place the mixture on the stove and stir 

(62) 



COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 63 

constantly until the eggs have thickened enough to 
make a thick coating on the spoon; turn it into a bowl 
and beat until cold, when it should be light; add \ 
ounce gelatine dissolved in 3 tablespoonfuls water 
and melted over hot water. Beat five minutes. 
Lastly whip 1 pint thick cream to a stiff froth and 
mix lightly with the egg mixture. Turn into a mold 
holding 3 pints and pack in ice and salt for three 
hours. 

SNOW PUDDING 

To one ounce gelatine, add 1 cup cold water and 
let stand one hour to dissolve, then add 2 cups boil- 
ing water, £ pound sugar, juice of 1 lemon, 1 inch 
cinnamon bark, and a few drops lemon extract; strain 
through towel. When nearly cold add the stiffly 
beaten white of 1 egg, and stir over ice until white 
as snow all through and very thick. Then pour in 
mold, and stand on ice for two hours. 

NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM 

One quart sweet cream, ^ pound sugar, 1 teaspoon- 
ful vanilla, and beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Turn into a 
freezer and freeze. Take ^ of it and mix with 2 
ounces burnt almonds and a little caramel coloring. 
Put this in a mold, add a layer of the plain vanilla 
cream, and color the last third with red fruit coloring 



64 PRACTICAL COOKER T 

and flavor with strawberry extract. Put this on top 
of the other two layers in mold. Put on cover and 
bury in ice and salt for two hours. 

CANARY CREAM 

Dissolve 1 ounce gelatine in 1 cup cold water. 
After an hour add 1£ cups boiling water, £ pound 
sugar, the juice of 2 lemons, a small piece cinnamon 
bark, a little lemon extract, and the beaten yolks of 2 
eggs. Strain through a sieve; mold and stand on ice 
to congeal. 

STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE 

One-half box gelatine dissolved in \ cup cold 
water. To 1 pint strawberry juice, add 1 cup sugar, 
and stir until dissolved. Melt the gelatine over hot 
water and add to the strawberry juice. Stir and as 
soon as it begins to congeal, add 1 pint whipped 
cream. Turn into a mold and chill. 

ORANGE CHARLOTTE 

Grate the yellow rind from 1 orange, pour over it 
\ cup boiling water; cover closely and steep for fif- 
teen minutes. Soak \ cup gelatine in \ cup cold 
water. Heat the water in which rind was steeped to 
boiling point, add 1 cup sugar, bring again to boiling 
point, and pour over the gelatine. Strain and set 



COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 65 

aside until cool, then add 1 cup orange juice. When 
it begins to thicken stir in carefully 1 cup cream 
whipped to a stiff froth. Pour in mold lined with 
lady fingers and set on ice. 

APPLE SPONGE 

Soak \ box gelatine in \ cup cold water for one- 
half hour. To 1 pound pared and quartered apples 
add 1 pint water and stew until apples are tender. 
Melt the gelatine over hot water and add to the 
apples. Press through a colander; add 1 cup sugar, 
the grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, and when the 
mixture begins to congeal stir in carefully the well- 
beaten whites of 3 eggs. Turn into a mold, chill, 
and serve with "Custard Sauce." 

PEACH MOUSSE 

One-half ounce gelatine dissolved in ^ cup cold 
water. Melt it over hot water after it has stood half 
an hour, and add it to the pulp of 12 peaches, add 
also the juice of 1 lemon and \ pound of sugar. Stir 
until the mixture begins to congeal, then add 1 pint 
whipped cream. Mold and chill for three hours. 

PINEAPPLE MOUSSE 

Dissolve 1 ounce gelatine in £ cup cold water. 
After one hour add 1 cup boiling water, £ pound 
5 



66 PRACTICAL COOKERT 

sugar, the juice of 1 lemon, and 1 can shredded pine- 
apple. Stir until it begins to thicken, then add 1 
cup whipped cream. Put in mold and bury in ice 
and salt for two hours. 

FROZEN BANANA WHIP 

Press 6 peeled bananas through a sieve. Stir into 
them \ cup orange juice and -| cup powdered sugar. 
Soak \ box gelatine in ^ cup cold water; melt over 
hot water, and add to the fruit. When it begins to 
stiffen, stir in carefully 1 pint thick cream whipped to 
a stiff froth, and turn into a covered mold. Bury in 
ice and salt for two hours. 

SULTANA ROLL 

One cup sugar, 1 tablespoonful flour, 1 beaten 
egg, 1 pint milk. Cook for twenty minutes. Cool 
and flavor with 1 teaspoonful each almond and va- 
nilla, add 1 quart whipped cream, color leaf green, 
and freeze. Line a mold with this and sprinkle with 
sultana raisins which have been soaked in fruit juice 
for one hour. Fill centre with 1 pint whipped cream. 
Pack in ice and salt and let stand two hours. 

SAUCE 

Boil 1 cup sugar and ^ cup hot water until slightly 
thickened. When cold add 4 tablespoonfuls fruit 
juice and chill. 

I ofC. 



A WORD ABOUT EXTRACTS 

In my talks, I talk for pure foods, and I give a 
great deal of instruction for which I am not paid. 
I am actually disgusted with some of the cheap 
food products to be found on the market, and 
amongst them, the flavoring extracts that are sold by 
agents from house to house, some of which are merely 
preparations of tonka beans and artificial vanillin, 
and you had better let them alone, if you want good 
flavors. 

I have been using Souders's Extracts for more than 
four years. I find them the best goods on the market 
for the money. They are absolutely pure flavors, 
and if you will give them a trial, I am convinced that 
you will continue to use them. You can procure 
them of your grocer, and if he has not got them in 
stock, by insisting on getting them I think he will 
get them for you. If he should refuse, then it is 
because he makes more money on some other brand 
of extracts that he is handling. 

E. G. Detlefs. 
(67) 



68 PRACTICAL COOKERY 



Mother's Oats 



ALWAYS FRESH 
AND SWEET 

Being parched by the pan process, Mother's Oats 

have that nutty flavor so desirable in a 

delicious breakfast food. 



IULLS OR BLACK SP1 



Endorsed by Prof. Detlefs, and demonstrated by him 
in his classes. 

FIRST PRIZE NEW ORLEANS 
INDUSTRIAL EXPOSITION, 1900. 

MOTHER'S OATS 

Are sold in 2 pound packages only. All grocers. 



THE AKRON CEREAL CO., 

AKRON, OHIO. 



PRACTICAL COOKER Y 



69 




EVERY 



..Favorite Gas Range,. 

IS GUARANTEED 
TO BE PERFECT 

Made in the Largest Variety of Sizes and Styles by 

The Favorite Stove and Range Company, 

Makers of Fine Stoves and Ranges 
of All Kinds. 

Works and Main Offices, - = PIQUA, OHIO. 

MR. DETLEFS says: 

I use only Favorite Gas Ranges because I have found them to be the 
best. They do perfect work and are superior to all others in my judgment. 
I am not employed by the company who make them, or paid for this testi- 
monial. The excellent satisfaction these ranges have given me justifies 
me in recommending them. 



70 DETLEFS'S VAPORIZER 

FORMULA FOR USE WITH DETLEFS'S 
VAPORIZER 

Price of vaporizer, 65 cents. 

No. i 

Menthol Crystals 1 drachm 

Gum Camphor 1 drachm 

Oil Cassia 5 minims 

For acute congestion or inflammation of the nose, 
throat, or middle ear, or soreness from a cold. 

• No. 2 

Oil Eucalyptus 2 drachms 

Oil Gaultheria 10 minims 

Oil Cassia 5 minims 

Menthol Crystals 2 drachms 

For catarrhal affections of the nose and throat, 
especially for dry catarrh. 

No. 3 

Oil Eucalyptus 2 drachms 

Gum Camphor 1 drachm 

Menthol Crystals 1 drachm 

Oil Cassia 10 minims 

Oil Scotch Pine 1 drachm 

For hay fever and asthma. 



DETLEFS'S VAPORIZER 71 

No. 4 

Beech Creosote 1 drachm 

Oil Eucalyptus 1 drachm 

Oil Cassia . .• 10 minims 

Menthol Crystals 1 drachm 

For tuberculosis. 

No. 5 

Menthol Crystals 1 drachm 

Gum Camphor 1 drachm 

Acid Carbolic 10 minims 

For catarrhal deafness. 

No. 6 

Oil Eucalyptus 2 drachms 

Menthol Crystals 2 drachms 

Oil Cassia 10 minims 

For chronic bronchitis and catarrh. 

No. 7 

Equal parts powdered borax, salt, and soda. Take 
one teaspoonful to a pint warm water. A most ex- 
cellent nasal douche for catarrhal affections. Follow 
by vaporizer with suitable formula. 

If the vaporizer is carried in the pocket, the warmth 
of the body is sufficient to render the medicinal sub- 
stance readily volatile. If it does not seem to be 
strong enough, it is only necessary to blow the breath 
out through it a few times to warm it sufficiently. 



72 DETLEFS'S VAPORIZER 

DIRECTIONS FOR USING DETLEF'S 
POCKET VAPORIZER 

For the Throat or Lungs — Use the small end or 
mouth-piece. Holding it between the lips take deep 
inhalations, breathing out through the nose. 

For the Nose — Use the large end or nose-piece, 
placing it in first one nostril then the other, taking 
deep inhalations. 

For the Ears — Put a rubber bulb on the mouth- 
piece end, place the nose-piece tightly in one nostril, 
holding" the other nostril closed with the thumb. 

o 

Swallow to close the throat forcibly compressing on 
the bulb at the same time, the vapor will thus be 
carried up through the Eustachian tubes into the 
middle ear. This has cured cases of catarrhal deaf- 
ness of long standing. 

CHARGING THE VAPORIZER 

The vaporizer is filled with absorbent material 
which is saturated with the medicament giving it off 
as the air passes through by inhalation. To recharge, 
unscrew the nose-piece end and put five or ten drops 
of the solution on the absorbent material inside. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
i ii i ii mil ii i mi Ml I II III |j HI 



014 486 981 3 




