TX 715 
.C558 
Copy 1 




Rki 



Choice I^ECIPtS 



Compiled l\ 

PRACTICAL 
HOUSEKEEPEllS 



Sonoma County, California 
1000 . 




A LEi 



NA 



LIBRARY OFXONGRESS. 

-^%rvS 

Chap...:-r.. Copyright No 



AMERICA. |» I 



UNITED STATES OF 



FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY 

OF HARTFORD, CONN. 



ANNUAL STATEMENT, JANUARY 1. 1900 

Capital |i, 000,000 00 

Assets 4,551,283 55 

ASSETS 

Real Estate $ 327.315 49 

Stocks and Bonds 2, 784,854 50 

Loans on Bonds and Mortgage 736,040 00 

Cash in Banks and in Office 231,616 16 

Premiums in Course of Collection (net) 348,443 90 

Other Assets 123,013 50 

Total Assets ^4,551, 283 55 

LIABILITIES 

Losses in Process of Adjustment and Settlement $ 210,857 74 

Reserve for Unearned Premiums 1,784,168 02 

Commission, Brokerages, and all other Claims against Company 58,302 82 
Reserve Fund for Contingencies 25,000 00 

Total Liabilities 12,078,328 58 

Capital Stock Paid in 1,000,000 00 

Net Surplus over Capital and all Liabilities 1,472,954 97 

$4,551,283 55 



PFineipal Office, 95 Pearl Street, Haptford, Conn. 

JAMES NICHOLS, President. B. R STILLMAN, Vice-Pres. and Sec. 

H. A. SMITH, Assistant Secretary. 



PACIFIC COAST DEPARTMENT 

409 CALIFORNIA STREET, San Francisco, Cal. 



GEO. D. DORNIN 



GEO. W. DORNIN 

ASS'T MANAGER 



Choice Recipes 



COMPILED BY 



Practical Housekeepers 



OF 



Sonoma County, 
California 



1900 



Prepared for and Issued by 

THE 

PACIFIC DEPARTMENT 

OF THE 

National Fire Insurance Company 

OF HARTFORD, CONN. 
AND 

SPRlNGFlELD^FiRE AND Marine Insurance Co. 

OF SPRINGFIELD, MASS. 

GEO. D. DORNIN, Manager 




San Francis-co 

THE WHITAKER & RAY CO. 
(ncorporated) 



Library of Congrei% 
Office of th« 

MAY 3 -19011 

Keglstsr «f Copyright* 
SECOND COPY. 






63300 

Copyright 

IQOO 

Geo. D. Dornin 



Of all appeals — although 

I grant the power of pathos and of gold, 
Of beauty, flattery, threats, a shilling — no 

Method's more sure at moments to take hold 
Of the best feelings of mankind, which grow 

More tender, as we every day behold. 
Than that all-softening, overpowering knell. 
The tocsin of the soul — the dinner bell. 

— Byron. 



CONTENTS 



^ 



Breads 7 

Soups II 

Fish 13 

Entrees 14 

Meats 15 

Vegetables 17 

Salads 19 

Fish and Meat Sauces 24 

Puddings 25 



Pudding Sauces 30 

Pies 31 

Frozen Dainties 32 

Cakes 34. 

Pickles 43 

Confectionery 47 

Breakfast and Luncheon Dishes 49 

For the Invalid's Tray 56 

Table of Weights and Measures 6a 



BREAD ^ ^ 



^ 
^ 



"Would you know how first he met her ? 
She was cutting bread and butter." 

— Goeihe. 



PERPETUAL YEAST— Mrs. Briggs 

A quart preserving can is the most convenient thing to start 
and to keep this yeast in. To begin a can of this perpetual yeast, 
dissolve a compressed yeast cake in a quarter of a cup of lukewarm 
potato water — ^that is, the water in which the potatoes for dinner 
are cooked. Fill a quart can of glass half full of lukewarm potato 
water. Add half a cup granulated sugar to it, and when this is 
dissolved add the quarter of a cup of dissolved yeast. Stir well and 
set the can containing the yeast in a moderately warm place, but 
not where it will be heated perceptibly, and let it stand until the 
whole is very light. Seal up the can and the day before you are 
read}' to make bread, fill the can full of lukewarm potato water and 
add another half cup of sugar. Let the can stand for about twenty- 
four hours. Beat the foaming white yeast and use a pint, or half 
the can, for four small or three large loaves of bread. Use as much 
lukewarm water as you do of yeast, and mix the bread at once, 
kneading it thoroughly. Seal up the can of yeast, set it away and 
a day before the yeast is needed fill up the can again with lukewarm 
potato water, in which the potatoes were boiled, and a half cup 
sugar, and it is ready for use again when it is risen. 



GRAHAM BREAD— Mrs. Baldwin 

Stir into a quart of water (warm in winter and cold in summer) 
enough wheat flour to make a soft batter, also a cup of yeast. Let 
rise overnight. In the morning add salt, one-half tea cup molasses, 
one teaspoon soda in cup of boiling water and enough Graham 
flour to make batter thick enough to pour into well greased tins. 
Let rise very light and bake in moderate oven. 



8 BREAD 

POTATO CAKES— Mrs. Eldredge 

One quart flour, one cup mashed potatoes, one half cup butter, 
two teaspoons baking powder, little salt. Rub butter in the flour 
dry, then add potato, milk enough to moisten. Roll out an inch 
thick, cut with biscuit cutter and bake in moderate oven. 

RICE GEMS— Mrs. Wilkinson 

One heaping cup flour, two-thirds cup cold boiled rice, one and 
one-half cups sour milk, one tablespoon butter, one egg, pinch salt, 
one teaspoon soda. Beat hard and bake in buttered gem pans, in 
hot oven about twenty minutes. 

GOOD BROWN BREAD— Mrs. A. Faught 

One cup Indian meal, one cup of rye, one cup of wheat flour, 
one cup sour milk, one-half cup molasses, one teaspoon salt, two 
teaspoons soda. Steam four hours and then put it in the oven a 
little while. 

BISCUIT -Mrs. Jas. H. Laughlin 

One quart flour, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream 
tartar and one teaspoon salt. Sift all together. Rub in one table- 
spoon lard, mix with sweet milk to soft dough and bake imme- 
diately. 

CORN MEAL GEMS— Mrs. Bryant 

One egg beaten well, one and one-half tablespoon sugar, two 
tablespoons melted butter, one cup milk, one heaping cup white 
flour, one scant cup corn meal, one and one-half teaspoons baking 
powder, pinch of salt. Bake in gem pans about twenty minutes. 

POP-OVERS— Mrs. Dornin 

Two eggs, two cups milk, two cups flour, pinch of salt. Bake 
in very hot well greased gem pans in hot oven. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD-Mrs. MaKee 

Two cups cornmeal, one cup flour, two cups sweet milk, one 
cup sour^ milk, one cup syrup, one teaspoon soda, one tablespoon 
salt. Boil three hours in a two quart pail in a kettle of boiling 
water. 



BREAD 9 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD— Mrs. Wilkinson 

Mix two cups Yankee Rye meal, one cup yellow corn meal, 
one cup whole wheat flour. Add tablespoon salt and sift. Dissolve 
level teaspoon soda in about two tablespoons warm water, add it to 
one and a half pints sour milk or butter-milk. Then add to this one 
cup of molasses. Thoroughly mix; pour over dry ingredients, 
mixing well. Pour into greased two-quart molds, cover tight, and 
steam five hours. Lift out, allow to cool, and bake half an hour. 

BREAKFAST MUFFINS— Mrs. Meacham 

Three eggs, one breakfast cup of milk, one tablespoon melted 
butter, one tablespoon sugar, a pinch of salt, two heaping teaspoons 
of baking powder. Beat the eggs well and mix with the milk; put 
melted butter with the above ingredients, mixing in flour enough to 
make batter. Bake in round tins, and when almost done wash the 
tops of each with a feather dipped in milk. 

POP-OVERS— Miss Lawghlin 

One cup milk, one cup flour, three eggs, one teaspoon salt. 
Beat thoroughly and cook in hot oven. 

COFFEE CAKE— Mrs. Voss 

One cup brown sugar, one cup butter, one-half cup molasses, 
two eggs, one cup strong cold coffee, one teaspoon soda, two tea- 
spoons cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, one cup raisins or currants. 
Add the fruit last rubbed in a little of the dry flour. Bake about 
one hour. 

CORN BREAD (NEW ORLEANS)— Mrs. Baldwin 

One and one-half pints corn meal, one-half pint flour, one table- 
spoon sugar, one teaspoon salt, two heaping teaspoons Royal Baking 
Powder, one tablespoon lard, one and one-quarter pints milk, two 
eggs. Sift together corn meal, flour, sugar, salt and powder; rub 
in lard cold, add eggs (beaten) and the milk. Mix into a moder- 
ately stiff batter; pour from bowl into a shallow cake-pan. Bake 
in rather hot oven thirty minutes. 

MARYLAND BISCUIT— Miss Annie Laughlin 

Rub one tablespoon butter and one tablespoon lard into one 
quart sifted flour, one teaspoon salt, milk enough to make a stiff 



lO BREAD 

dough. Use the hands in mixing dough. When the milk, flour and 
shortening have been thoroughly mixed, flour the bread-board, lay 
dough on it and beat it with rolling pin until it blisters and cracks 
loudly. This beating will occupy at least one half hour. When 
the blisters are abundant, tear off" pieces of dough as large as an 
egg, mold with hand in the form of a biscuit. Prick the top of 
each biscuit with fork and bake in moderate oven. 

TREMONT HOUSE ROLLS-Mrs. A. Faught 

Take two quarts of flour, add one teaspoon salt; make a hole 
in the middle and put into it one tablespoon of sugar, butter about 
the size of an egg, one pint of boiled milk and one teacupful of 
yeast. Do not stir, but put them together and knead fifteen minutes. 
Set in a cool place for six hours and then roll out about one-half 
inch thick and cut with a biscuit cutter. Moisten one edge with 
butter, and fold together like rolls; lay in the pan so they will not 
touch. Set for half hour in a warm place to rise and bake in quick 

oven. 

FRENCH ROLLS— Miss Laughlin 

At noon scald one pint of new milk and let cool. Sift two 
quarts flour into which rub two tablespoons butter and then make a 
hole in the center. Stir a spoonful of yeast and two tablespoons 
sugar into your milk, then put all into the center of flour. Let it 
stand several hours until foaming, then mix in all the flour; cover 
and set away over night. In morning knead it down and set to rise 
again. Roll out not too thin, spread over with butter, and cut in 
rounds lapping one edge. Do not place the rolls near together in 
the pan. Let them rise about two hours, then bake in quick oven 
about twenty minutes. 

MUFFINS— Mrs. A. Fau^ht 

One pint new milk, one egg, one tablespoon sugar, one table- 
spoon butter, half teaspoon salt, half cup home-made yeast. Mix 
with flour until a very stiff batter is formed ; leave in a warm place 
over night and bake in the morning in rings. 

CORN MEAL GEMS— Mrs. Jas. H. Laughlin 
One egg and one tablespoon sugar beaten together, one cup 
sweet milk, one heaping cup corn meal, two tablespoons flour in 
which one teaspoon ful of baking powder has been well mixed, and 
a pinch of salt. Stir well and bake in hot gem-pans. 



SOUPS ^ ^ 



^ 
^ 



"Appetite comes with eatiug, says Augeston." 

— Rabelais. 

SOUP STOCK 

To a two-bit shin of beef I add what beefsteak and other meat- 
bones I may have, add six quarts of water, cover tightly, and boil 
gently all day. Strain at night and set away to cool. The next 
day skim the fat from it and if the stock is not a thick jelly, put it 
on the stove and boil still longer. This should make three quarts 
of rich jelly, to which you can add rice, barley, macaroni, vermicelli 
or vegetables, or whatever you fancy, as a flavoring. (The fat I 
skim from the soup I put on the stove and boil until it is trans- 
parent, pour it into a small pan or tin and use it in the place of 
butter or lard for cooking. It is much superior to butter or lard for 
frj'ing or shortening.) 

BEAN SOUP— Mrs. Ford 

Wash and boil your beans with a piece of salt pork. When 
the beans are soft take them out and press through a colander, then 
put them back in the water they were boiled in, together with four 
hard boiled eggs quartered and half a lemon sliced, a little pepper 
and salt. Boil up and serve. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP— Miss Laughlin 
Boil two bunches of asparagus one half hour. Put one quart 
milk on stove, press tender stalks through colander into milk. 
Thicken with two tablespoons flour rubbed into one tablespoon 
butter. Let come to a boil and serve hot. Season with pepper and 
salt. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP— Mrs. A. L. House 

One quart milk, one can tomatoes strained, one teaspoon of soda 

in tomatoes just before removing from the stove. Butter size of an 

egg, salt and ca3^enne pepper to taste, two crackers rolled fine. Heat 

milk and tomatoes separately. Mix in tureen just before serving. 

OYSTER STEW— Mrs. R. H. Thomson 

One can of best cove oysters, one quart sweet milk, one tablespoon 



12 SOUPS 

butter, two tablespoons flour, salt and pepper to taste. Strain the 
liquor from the oysters and to this add the milk. When it has 
reached the boiling point thicken with the flour into which the 
butter has been rubbed. When this has boiled, pour over the oysters 
w^hich are in the soup tureen and serve immediately. 

POTATO SOUP— Mrs. Eldredge 

Four medium sized potatoes cut in very small pieces. Pour on 
one quart boiling water, little salt, pepper and good slice of butter. 
Let boil until soft. Rub through a sieve. Just before serving add 
one teaspoon of flour mixed with cold water, two cups of milk and let 
boil up once. 

ONION SOUP— Mrs. Bryant 

Slice and fry six large onions until quite brown, add two quarts 
rich milk, one tablespoon butter, one teaspoon cayenne pepper and 
salt to taste. Thicken wdth two tablespoons flour mixed with cold 
water. Serve very hot. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP— Mrs. R. H. Thomson 

One cup split peas, one and one half lbs. lean neck of beef f no bone), 
two thin slices of salt pork, three quarts cold water. Wash and soak 
peas for an hour, cut meat in small pieces. Put all together in soup 
kettle and cook for three hours, you may have to add some boiling 
water at the last. When done thicken with one tablespoon of flour 
rubbed smooth in one-half cup of creamy milk; strain and serve 
with toast bread cubes. 

CREAM CELERY SOUP— Miss S. E. Polhemws 

Take the root and several stalks of celery cut in small pieces, cover 
with water (being careful not to use too much) add a lump of butter 
and salt and pepper. Boil until celery is tender, then add a quart of 
milk and let come to the boiling point. Take three or four slices of 
bread cut in small squares and fry in a little butter to a light brown, 
place in tureen and pour the soup over them. 

BEAN SOUP— Mrs. R. H. Thomson 

One large cup of small white beans, two lbs. lean neck of beef. 
Soak the beans over night and boil three-fourths of an hour, changing 
water twice. Put the beans into the soup kettle with meat, cook until 
the beans cannot be found, and the meat to shreds. Salt and pepper 
to taste, add a cup of creamy milk, strain and serve. This is also 
nice wdth toast cubes instead of crackers. 



l^loll «i^ fe^ ^ ^^ 



^i 



"The silvery fish, 
Grazing at large in meadows submarine, 
Fresh from the wave now cheers 
Our festive board." 

— A non 



FISH— Miss Laugfhiin 



Pick to pieces, fish previously boiled, season with salt, pepper, and 
butter, mix in rolled crackers or bread crumbs, cover with cream and 
bake. 



CREAMED SALMON— Miss Laughlin 

Make a white sauce of one half pint milk and as much cream, two 
tablespoons butter and two tablespoons flour. Melt butter, stirring 
in flour and diluting with hot cream and milk. Season with salt, 
cayenne, and nutmeg. To this add a can of nice salmon freed from 
skin and bone. Stir until hot and serve in little individual cases. 



FILLETS OF FISH WITH BECHAMEL SAUCE 
Miss Annie Laugfhiin 

Slice salmon or any white fish; fry lightly in butter for six 
minutes, then dip in beaten egg, roll in crumbs, season, dot thickly 
with butter and place in a good oven for fifteen minutes. Serve with 
a sauce made by melting one tablespoonful of butter, rub smoothly 
in this one of flour, and dilute with a half-pint of stock made from 
chicken or veal; season nicely, lift out fish, sprinkle thickly with 
minced parsley and pour the sauce over. You can prepare the fish 
beforehand, cooking it only ten minutes, and then merely place in 
the oven to heat while the soup is being served. The sauce will 
keep if stood in a vessel of hot water. 



ENTREES ^ 



^ 
^ 



"The turnpike road to people's hearts I find 
Lies through their mouths, or I mistake mankind." 

—Br. IVokot. 

PATTY SHELLS-Mrs. Bryant 

One pint flour, two teaspoons baking powder, half teaspoon 
salt. Sift all together. One-half pound good butter, work half the 
butter by degrees into the prepared flour and mix with a little more 
than a gill of cold water or enough to make a stiff dough. Rollout 
the paste and strew over it a part of remaining butter, divided into 
little pieces dredged with flour. Roll up dough like jelly roll, and 
roll out again. Repeat latter process once more and add remaining 
butter. Roll one-half inch thick, cut into rounds two inches in 
diameter. Press a small cutter one inch in diameter on each round 
a quarter of an inch deep. Place on buttered tins and bake brown. 

CHICKEN AND OYSTER PATTIES-Mrs. House 

Put two tablespoons butter and three of flour, one-half tea- 
spoon salt and one-fourth teaspoon white pepper on the fire, and 
when melted and mixed well, add one pint cream or rich milk. Stir 
until it thickens, then add one pint diced chicken. Simmer five 
minutes, then add one pint oysters (drained), and cook until edges 
curl. Fill heated patty shells and serve. 

OYSTERS A LA RICHELIEU— Mrs. A, L. House 

Put one tablespoon of butter in chafing dish. When melted 
add one-fourth teaspoon paprika, two tablespoons chopped celery 
and two dozen large oysters free from liquor. Cook, and when 
plump add four tablespoons of sherry and serve on hot buttered 
toast. 

DEVILED CRAB-Mrs. A. L. House 

One crab, two hard boiled eggs chopped fine, two (2) table- 
spoons cracker crumbs rolled very fine, juice of one lemon, two 
tablespoons sherry, red pepper, salt ; mix well. Butter size of an 
egg ; flour to thicken. Cook, then thin with milk and season with 
salt, spoonful mustard and mace. Mix well with the crab, sift over 
cracker crumbs and cover with bits of butter. Heat in oven until 
nice brown. 



MEATS ^ ^ 



^ 
^:^- 



"Some hae meat and canna eat, 
And some would eat that want it, 
But we hae meat, and we can eat, 
Sae let the Lord be thankit." 

— Burns. 

RULES FOR COOKING MEATS 

Put all salt meats in cold water; all fresh meats, excepting for 
soups, into hot water, then cook slowly. All roast meats, excepting 
veal, are put dry into a very hot oven; veal requiring a little more 
moisture. When well browned, add hot water; and when about 
half done, salt. Never salt meat until partially cooked. Rare 
meat requires about fifteen minutes to the pound. Baste all roasts 
frequently. Roast beef requires a hotter oven than any other meat. 

MOLDED VEAL-Miss Laughlin 
Ten cent knuckle veal and boil until it can be pierced with 
fork. Take from liquor and cool. When cold cut into small pieces. 
Have ready three hard boiled eggs. Slice eggs lengthwise. Com- 
mence b}' putting slices of e%g in mold, then meat and alternate in 
this wise until all is used with an occasional all clove and pepper 
corn. When all is ready pour over the liquor w^hich is boiling hot, 
and has been freed from grease or settlings. Set away to cool. 
Serve cold cut in slices. If liquor seems too thin, add one teaspoon 
Knox Gelatine. 

DUMPLINGS— Mrs. Miller 
To each cup full of sifted flour add one teaspoon of baking 
powder, add a little salt, sift until thoroughly mixed, then add half 
as much milk \as flour (by measure) and beat a minute. Drop by 
spoonfuls into the stew, cover tightly and boil twelve minutes. 

STUFFING FOR A TURKEY 

For a turkey weighing from eight to ten pounds allow one loaf 
of stale baker's bread, one quart of oysters, one lemon, two roots of 
celery and one-quarter of a pound of butter. It is taken for granted 
that the turkey is thoroughly cleaned and wiped drj^ before putting 



l6 MEATS 

the stuffing in. Crumble the bread till very fine ; season with 
pepper and salt. Drain the oj^sters, setting the liquor aside. Now 
take a very sharp knife and peel ofiF the outer rind of the lemon, 
being careful not to have any of the bitter and tough white skin 
left on. Cut the peel in very small bits, chop the white part of the 
celery very fine, adding the butter and the juice of the lemon. 
Mix the ingredients mentioned, stirring until thoroughly mixed ; 
then proceed to stuff body aud crop. A turkey of the size spoken 
of requires at least two hours baking, and it should be basted 
frequently ; the liquor of the oysters should be put in the pan when 
the pan is first set in the oven, and this is to be used in basting. 
The giblets and livers should be cooked in a basin on top of the 
stove, then chopped fine, and when the gravy is made, add them 
to it. 

VEAL OR BEEF LOAF— Miss Annie Laughlin 

Three pounds chopped veal or beef, three well beaten eggs, salt 
and pepper to taste, one-half cup butter. Powdered cracker to 
make the above the consistency of dough. Make into a loaf and 
bake until done, basting with butter. Use hot water to moisten 
the ingredients if it is too dry to mold with hand. 

BOILED TONGUE— Miss Annie Laughlin 
Soak tongue over night and boil four hours in milk and water, 
peel and place on platter ; garnish with parsley. 



VEGETABLES ^ 



^ 
^ 



CANNED CORN— Mrs. Jas. Laughlin 

Use one ounce tartaric acid to eight quarts corn. Cut corn 
from cob, use sufficient water to cook corn. Dissolve the acid in a 
little water, stir well into corn just before putting into can and seal. 

BAKED TOMATO AND EGG PLANT— Mrs. House 

Take a deep earthenware dish, pour into it a cup of cream, 
cut several slices of egg plant very thin, salt well, and line the dish 
with them; slice two large tomatoes, place a layer of .these on the 
egg plant, next a layer of spaghetti (.cooked); sprinkle with grated 
cheese, pieces of butter, salt and pepper; cover this with layer of 
tomatoes, salt well and sprinkle with chopped green pepper and a 
top layer of egg plant, which also salt and pepper well. Cook 
gently an hour and half in a slow hot oven. 

CREAMED SQUASH— Miss Annie Lau^hlin 

Bake Hubbard Squash in the oven and when done, scrape from 
shell and place in a granite kettle on the stove; add sweet cream, 
salt, pepper and butter; beat to a cream and serve hot. 

TO BAKE SWEET POTATOES— Mrs. Dwinelle 

Boil until almost done, then pour off water and stand them in a 
hot oven about fifteen minutes. Remove skins and serve. 

SWEET POTATOES AU CARAMEL— Miss Laughlin 

Boil sweet potatoes, peel and cut in long strips, lay in a baking 
dish that can be sent to table, dredging with two tablespoons flour, 
two teaspoons cinnamon. Dot with four tablespoons butter cut in 
bits, sprinkle w4th four tablespoons sugar, and pour over all a cup of 
hot water. Bake until brown. 



l8 ■ VEGETABLES 

CORN PUDDING— Mrs. Compton 

Dozen large ears of sweet corn, one quart of sweet milk, three 
eggs well beaten, butter size of an egg, salt and pepper to taste. 
Mix altogether and bake in a moderate oven until the milk and eggs 
are thick. 

CORN SOUFFLE— Mrs. A. L. House 

One can corn (chopped fine), one pint milk (scant), two eggs, 
salt to taste, one-half teaspoon yeast powder, one tablespoon of 
flour stirred into the milk. Beat eggs very light, add to the other 
ingredients. Put all into a buttered pudding dish and bake about 
forty minutes. To be eaten immediately. 

CREAMED POTATOES— Miss Polhemos 

Peel the potatoes and boil till well done. Place on the stove a 
little milk or cream in which you put a lump of butter ; let this 
come to the boiling point. Mash the potatoes until there are no 
lumps; salt to suit the taste, then add the hot milk and beat until 
creamy ; add a white of egg beaten stiff, put in a dish and set in 
oven until the top is slightly browned. Serve at once, as it will 
spoil them to wait long. Use a dish for the baking that can be 
brought to the table. 

SPINACH A LA CREME— Miss A. Lau^hlin 

Boil the spinach ; drain off and press out all the water ; chop 
and heat, with two spoonfuls of thick cream, one of butter and 
seasoning to suit taste, dredging with a spoonful of flour as you 
stir. Serve in small mounds on piece of buttered toast, with a 
poached egg on top. 

POTATOES SCALLOPED RAW— Miss S. E. Polhemus 

Cut the raw potatoes in thin slices; butter a baking dish and 
put a layer of potatoes, salt and pepper and bits of butter ; repeat 
until dish is full. Pour over all until it is covered, sweet milk or 
cream, and then bake. 



SALADS ^ ^ ^ 



^ 
^ 



"To make a perfect salad there should be 

a spendthrift for oil, a miser for vinegar, a 

Wise man for salt, and a madcap to stir the 

ingredients up and mix them well together." 

' — Spanish Proverb. 

POTATO SALAD— Mrs. Harvey 

Slice cold boiled potatoes enough to fill a quart dish ; salt and 
pepper to taste. Chop two small onions very fine and add to 
potatoes. Put half a cupful of vinegar and one teaspoon of butter 
in a pan and let it heat gradually. Beat the yolks of two eggs well, 
pour into a cup, and fill the cup with thick sweet cream. Beat 
well together and stir in hot vinegar. Stir constantly till it reaches 
the boiling point, then pour it immediately over the potatoes and 
mix thoroughly. 

CHICKEN SALAD-Mrs. J. H. Faught 

Boil two young chickens until very tender, cut into shreds (do 
not chop). As much celery and white tender part of cabbage as 
will measure as much as the meat, chopped fine. 

DRESSING. 

Boil six eggs, chop the whites, mash yokes with t.wo table.spoons 
mustard, one teaspoon black pepper, one-half teaspoon cayenne. 
Scald one cup vinegar, into this stir one cup butter and yolks of 
eggs. When thick, take from fire and cool. Then stir into other 
ingredients with four tablespoons olive oil, several hours before 
serving. 

FRESH FRUIT SALAD— Miss Laughlin 

One-third box Cox's gelatine and one pint of hot water soaked 
for an hour. When ready, pour over either prepared peaches, sliced 
bananas, strawberries, blackberries, grapes, plums, oranges or a 
combination of any two of the fruits; sugar to taste and flavor to 
judgment. Set aside in cool place. 



20 SALADS 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING-Mrs. Dwinelle 

Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, one teaspoon of salt, small 
one-half teaspoon mustard, one tablespoon sugar, two tablespoons 
vinegar, two tablespoons thick sweet cream to each egg. Beat all 
thoroughly. 

SALAD DRESSING-Mrs. Bryant 

One teaspoon mustard, yolk of one egg. Mix well and add, 
drop by drop, olive oil and lemon juice, alternately. Season with 
cayenne pepper and salt. 

DRESSING FOR APPLE AND NUT SALAD-Mrs. Eastwood 

Four tablespoons vinegar, two well-beaten eggs, butter size of 
an egg, one teaspoon made mustard, two and one-half scant salt- 
spoons salt, one-quarter teaspoon red and white pepper, one 
teaspoon sugar, equal amount whipped cream. Let vinegar come 
to a boil; stir in egg until it thickens; cool; stir in seasoning and 
add cream just before serving. Use equal amounts chopped apples 
and walnuts. 

SALAD DRESSING— Miss Annie Laughlin 

Place on stove one-half pint vinegar, one tablespoon butter; 
heat slowly but not boil. When hot, stir into it this mixture: two 
thoroughly beaten eggs, one teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon 
mustard, one-half teaspoon pepper, one tablespoon flour, one table- 
spoon sugar. Turn into hot vinegar and let thicken, stirring all 
the time. Set aside to cool. , Thin with sweet cream. Keeps well if 
kept in cool place. 

SALAD DRESSING-Mrs. Dwindle 

Mix a tablespoon of dry mustard and a heaping teaspoon of salt 
to a stiff paste with a little vinegar. Into this beat thoroughly one 
egg. Then pour in best olive oil, about a wineglassful at a time, 
stirring it in well each time till quite smooth before adding more ; 
continue until a generous one-half pint has been used, when the 
mixture ought to be thick like cake batter. Add Cayenne pepper 
to taste and one wineglassful of vinegar, stirring until smooth. 
This will keep in a tightly covered jar in a cool place for some 
time. , 



SAT. ADS 2 I 

SWEETBREADS SALAD— Miss Laughlin 

Soak sweetbreads one hour in cold water and parboil twenty 
minutes. When cool, slice thin, rub the bottom of dish with sliced 
onions. Arrange leaves of lettuce on it, put on sweetbreads and 
more lettuce and pour mayonnaise over all. 

CABBAGE SALAD— Mrs. R. H. Thomson 

One cup vinegar, one cup water, one heaping tablespoon butter, 
one tablespoon sugar, one tablespoon corn starch, one-half teaspoon 
mustai^d, yolks of two eggs. Place water, vinegar, salt and butter 
in an enameled saucepan. When it boils, add mustard and corn- 
starch, which has been moistened and rubbed smooth in one-half 
cup cream. When this has boiled two or three minutes add the 
well beaten yolks of the eggs. Let remain over fire a moment 
longer and put aside to cool. Thin part of this with cream and a 
teaspoon sharp vinegar and mix with cabbage which has been 
shaved, not chopped. 

MOCK CHICKEN SALAD— Miss S. E. Polhemus 

Take three pounds of veal and boil till well done; when cold 
chop fine; chop one head of celery, mix veal and celery well 
together, season well with salt and pepper, toss up lightly with silver 
fork; pour any good salad dressing over it, tossing and mixing until 
the bottom of the mass is as well saturated as the top; turn into salad 
bowl and garnish with the white of egg (boiled), cut into rings and 
sprigs of bleached celery tops. 

DUCK SALAD— Miss Annie Laughlin 

Cut cold roast duck into dices. To six pints allow four pints 
of diced celery and two pints mayonnaise, season duck with salt and 
cayenne. Heap in dome. Mask with thick mayonnaise and put 
stoned olives on and over it. 

CHICKEN SALAD— Mrs. Sutherland 

To furnish salad for thirty guests requires three large chickens. 
Boil thoroughly, then remove the bones and chop the meat fine, 
season to taste, mix w4th this the thoroughly blanched part of two 
bunches of celery cut fine. When ready to serve pour over all the 
following dressing, toss and mix well. 



22 SALADS 

DRESSING 

Beat two eggs well, then add one teaspoon sugar, one-fourth 
teaspoon salt, one-fourth teaspoon prepared mustard, one-third small 
teacup sweet cream, one teacup vinegar. Place bowl containing 
mixture in a pan of boiling water, stir until thick as cream. Season 
with pepper according to taste. 

CARNIVAL SALAD— Miss Annie Laoghlin 

Boil unbroken string beans until tender, garnish a flat salad 
dish with lettuce leaves; on one half of dish place beans laid 
parallel, on the other sliced fresh tomatoes. Serve with mayonnaise 
dressing. 

TOMATO JELLY (SALAD)— Miss Annie Laughlin 

Stew a can of tomatoes with a small sliced onion and salt and 
pepper until reduced one half. Strain through fine sieve pressing 
the pulp through. To two pints of juice add one teaspoon Knox 
gelatine that has been soaked in a little water fifteen minutes, one 
tablespoon taragon vinegar, season sharply with cayenne pepper. 
When firm, cut in two inch squares, place on blanched lettuce leaf. 
Turn into square dish to cool. When set, should be one inch thick. 
Serve with either French or mayonnaise dressing. 



LTi» ^1^ <S.Tc^ <x^^ 4i^^ <^J^ ^Tc^ ^T^ ^Tc^ ^Ti^ ^^ ^m 



National of 
Hartford 



This great American Company was chartered under the 
laws of the State of Connecticut, June 4, 1869, and was organized 
and commenced business in November, 1871. 

Its progress has been invariably prosperous and its agency 
system now extends to all parts of the United States, including 
our later acquisition, Hawaii. 

At the close of 1871, its financial condition showed a Cash 
Capital of $500,000, and Total Assets, $517,204.83. The close of 
1899 — twenty-eight years — shows a Paid Up Capital of $1,000,000, 
and Assets, $4,551,283.55. Its Net Surplus, over Capital and all 
Liabilities, has increased from $5,613.16 at the close of 1871 to 
$1,472,954.07 on December 30, 1899. 

During this period, the National has disbursed to policy 
holders for losses incurred, the enormous sum of $[4,984,664.58. 

The income of the National for 1899 was $2,368,786.56. 



MEAT SAUCES ^ ^ 



^ 
^ 



MINT SAUCE FOR LAMB— Miss Laughlin 

One handful mint leaves and tender stems. Stir well^with one 
cup sugar, one cup vinegar. Set on back of stove for one half 
hour, stirring occasionally. When mixture is consistency of syrup 
it is done. 

MUSTARD SAUCE— Miss Annie Laughlin 

One cup vinegar, one cup sweet cream, two tablespoons mus- 
tard, one tablespoon salt, three eggs well beaten. Stir eggs, mustard, 
salt and cream together. I^et vinegar come to boil, then stir in 
mixture and let boil a few minutes, stirring all the while. 

ONION SAUCE 

One tablespoon butter, one tablespoon flour mixed with one 
half pint soup stock; add one half dozen small onions which have 
been boiled and mashed. Season with pepper and salt. For roast 
duck or chicken. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE -Mrs, Wilkinson 

To two quarts of cranberries put one quart water. Let it come 
to a boil, then mash all the berries. When this is done add one 
quart sugar; let it boil fifteen minutes, stirring all the time; when 
done sift through a colander; it will all go through but the skin. 
Then pour into molds. It is better to do it the day before wanted 
for' the table. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE— Mrs. Delano 

One quart cranberries, one pint sugar, one-half pint water. 
Boil fifteen minutes. Do not strain. 



PUDDINGS ^ ^ 



^ 
^ 



" IvOve ill a cottage aud cottage pudding with it." 

COTTAGE PUDDING-Miss Laughlin 

One cup sugar, one cup milk, two and one-half cups flour, two 
eggs, two tablespoons butter, two teaspoons baking powder. Flavor 
with vanilla and bake in shallow pan. 

SAUCE 
One pint boiling water, one tablespoon flour moistened and 
boiled in water, two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons sugar 
creamed together. Pour on boiling water, boil up and flavor with 
nutmeg and lemon juice or tablespoon sharp vinegar. 

PLUM PUDDING- Mrs. Wilkinson 

One cup molasses, one cup brown sugar, one cup sweet milk, 
two cups finely chopped suet, two eggs, one cup currants, three 
cups chopped raisins, four cups flour, one teaspoon cinnamon, one 
teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon allspice, one teaspoon soda. Boil in 
double boiler four hours and serve with hard sauce. 

EGGLESS PLUM PUDDING-Mrs, MaKce 

One heaping cup of bread-crumbs, two cups flour, one cup suet 
chopped fine, one cup raisins or prunes chopped fine, one ciip 
molasses, one cup sweet milk, one tablespoon soda, one teaspoon 
salt, one teaspoon each cloves and cinnamon. Boil two and one- 
half hours in a two quart pail set in a kettle of boiling water. 

SAUCE 
One-half cup sugar and one tablespoon cornstarch mixed well. 
Then add one cup boiling water and one teaspoon lemon, boil ten 
minutes. 



26 PUDDINGS 

COFFEE JELLY— Miss Annie Laughlin 

One package Knox's gelatine dissolved in one pint cold water. 
Stand one hour. Put two cups strong coffee and one pint of sugar 
in a quart cup, add gelatine soaked and fill measure with boiling 
water. Stir well and strain. Pour in mold. Serve with whipped 
cream and sugar. 

PLUM PUDDING— Mrs. Purrington 

One pound flour, one pound of bread crumbs, one pound suet 
chopped fine, one pound citron, one pound sugar, two pounds cur- 
rants, two pounds raisins (seeded), five eggs, three teaspoons baking 
powder mixed with flour, one cup brandy, one tablespoon cloves, 
one tablespoon allspice, two tablespoons cinnamon, two grated nut- 
megs, add a little water in mixture, boil six hours. Either cook in 
small cake pans in a steamer or sprinkle pudding cloth with flour, 
put the pudding in and tie up as tight as possible. Put a plate-in 
bottom of your pot to keep the pudding from burning. These will 
keep some time. 

FRUIT PUDDING-Mrs. Bryant 

One half dozen bananas, one-half dozen oranges, two lemons, 
one can pineapple, one box gelatine, soaked in three-quarters cup 
cold water until dissolved, then add three-quarters cup boiling water. 
Sweeten to taste and set away to harden. 

COTTAGE PUDDING— Mrs. Voss 

One heaping pint flour, one-half cup sugar, one cup milk, one 
teaspoon soda, dissolved in the milk, one tablespoon butter, two- 
teaspoons cream tartar, flavor with nutmeg. Bake in a moderate 
oven. Cut in slices and serve warm with wine or brandy sauce or 
sweet sugar sauce. 

DRIED PEACH PUDDING -Mrs. Dwinelle 

Put some slices of bread in the oven and dry until they are 
very crisp, making about a bowl of crumbs. Add to these crumbs 
an equal quantity of stewed peaches, two or three eggs, one pint of 
milk, one-half cup sugar and bake about twenty minutes, browning 
a little. It should not be milky. Eat either hot or cold with a 
sauce made of sugar and lemon juice. 



PUDDINGS 27 

STEAMED PUDDING— Mrs. Meacham 
One cupful of suet chopped fine, one cupful molasses, one cup- 
ful currants washed and dried, one cupful sour milk, one teaspoon 
soda, a little salt and flour. Mix well, using flour enough to make 
a stiff dough. Pour into a mold and steam three hours. 

BANANA CREAM— Mrs. Bryant 

Five ripe bananas, remove skin and pound the fruit with five 
ounces white sugar. Whip one-half pint cream to stiff froth and 
add mashed fruit and one-half glass sherry wine and juice of one 
lemon. Mix well together and add one-half ounce of dissolved 
gelatine. Set in a mold to cool and harden. Serve with cream. 

SUET PUDDING-Mrs. J. H, Faught 

One half cup suet (chopped), one cup raisins, two-thirds cup 
molasses, one and one-half cups sweet milk, two cups flour, one 
heaping teaspoon soda. Steam two hours. 

SAUCE 
One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup cream, one-half 
nutmeg, three eggs well beaten. Cream, butter and sugar well to- 
gether, then add other ingredients. 

SNOW PUDDING— Mrs. Dwindle 

Soak one-half box of Cox's gelatine in one-half pint of cold 
water, set it on back of stove until dissolved. Add one-half pint of 
boiling water and just before it hardens beat well with the whites of 
three eggs, one cup sugar, and a little lemon juice. Put this in a 
mold. When served pour over it a custard made of one pint of milk, 
yolks of three eggs, two-thirds cup of sugar and one teaspoon 
vanilla. 

FAVORITE PUDDING-Mrs. Sutherland 

Beat two eggs light, add one cup milk, one cup breadcrumbs, 
one cup finely chopped sour apples, one cup currants, one cup sugar. 
Bake brown and serve with sauce. 

STRAWBERRY SPONGE— Mrs. Bryant 

One quart strawberries, one-half package of gelatine, one and 
one-half cups of water, one cup sugar, juice of one lemon, whites of 
four eggs. Soak the gelatine two hours in one-half cup of the water. 



28 PUDDINGS 

Mash strawberries and add half the sugar to them. Boil remainder 
of sugar and the cupful of water gently for twenty minutes. Rub 
strawberries through a sieve. Add gelatine to the boiling syrup 
and take from fire immediately, then add strawberries. Place in 
pan of cold water and beat five minutes. Add the well beaten whites 
of eggs and beat until thickens a little. Pour in mold and set away 
to thicken. Serve with cream. 

RICE PUDDING— Mrs, Dwindle 

One cup rice (uncooked), one cup of sugar, nine cups milk, 
butter size of walnut, salt and nutmeg, raisins if desired. Bake one 
and three-quarters or two hours. To be eaten cold. The oven 
should not be too hot, should cook slowly and stirring it several 
times in the first hour is well. Everything is in the baking. 

SPONGE PUDDING-Mfs. House 

One teacup flour, one-half teacup sugar, one pint sweet milk. 
Boil all together till thick, then add three-quarters cup of butter. 
Beat to a froth, and separately, the whites and yolks of eight eggs. 
Stir well together and bake in a pudding dish set in a pan of water 
nearly an hour, 

SAUCE 

Rub to a cream one cup powdered sugar and one-half cup 
butter. Add by teaspoonful, one-half cup sherry, and set in a dish 
of hot water to dissolve. 

STRAWBERRY PUDDING— Mrs. Bryant 
Make a custard of one quart milk, one cup sugar and yolks of 
four eggs; flavor with vanilla. Slice one stale plain cake and cover, 
the bottom of a dish with it. Moisten with custard ; over this put 
a layer of preserved strawberries, then another layer of cake, then 
custard, then strawberries. Repeat until your dish is full. Make a 
meringue of the whites of two eggs, and color with some of the 
strawberry juice. Spread on top and serve with cream. 

POOR MAN'S PUDDING— Mrs- Dwinelle 

Four cups flour, one cup milk, one cup chopped suet, one cup 
New Orleans molasses, one cup raisins, one-half teaspoon of soda 
dissolved in a little water. Citron and currants if you wish, and salt. 
Boil three hours in tin with stem through center and tie cover on 
tight. To be eaten wdth hot sauce. 



PUDDINGS 29 

STEAMED APPLE ROLL— Miss Annie Laoghlin 
One cup suet, beef or butter, two cups flour, later add flour 
to make dough right consistency, two teaspoons baking pow^der, 
pinch of salt, one cup sweet milk. Mix up soft dough and roll to 
about one inch thick ; spread on this two cups hashed apples. 
Spread over apple, plum or cherry preserves. Jelly and raisins take 
place of preserves. Roll up and put in buttered mold and steam 
three hours. 

SAUCE 
Butter, sugar, little flour heated together ; pour on boiling 
water; add a little vinegar and nutmeg. 

PRUNE PUDDING-Mrs, Eldredgc 
Soak forty prunes in cold water over night. When w-ell 
swollen, pour ofi" the water and cover with boiling water ; let boil 
for twenty or thirty minutes. When soft, pour off water and rub 
prunes through a sieve. Put three tablespoons of sugar in this and 
then add the well-beaten whites of six eggs. Mix well and bake 
about thirty minutes in a moderate oven. Serve with cream. 

TROY PUDDING— Miss Annie Laughlin 
One cup raisins, one cup chopped suet, one cup molasses, one 
cup sweet milk, three and one-half cups flour, one teaspoon soda, 
cinnamon, nutmeg. Boil in pudding dish three hours. Serve m ith 
either brandy or hard sauce. 

TAPIOCA CREAM— Mrs, Eldredge 
Two tablespoons tapioca soaked in one cup of water about an 
hour. One pint milk in double boiler, when hot pour in the tapioca 
and let cook for one hour. Pinch of salt, yolks of two eggs, into 
which beat one cup sugar. Then mix well with a little cold milk 
and pour into the hot milk, stirring a few minutes. Beat up the 
whites of the eggs and stir into the mixture after removing it from 
the fire. Add one teaspoon vanilla and set away to cool. 

INDIAN 'AND APPLE PUDDING— Mrs. Wilkinson 

One-half cupful Indian meal, one-half cup molasses, one quart 
milk, one teaspoon salt, one and one-half tablespoons butter, one 
pint pared and quartered apples, one-quarter teaspoon ginger, one- 
quarter teaspoon grated nutmeg. Put the milk on in double boiler. 



30 PUDDINGS 

when it boils, pour gradually on the meal; return to boiler and cook 
half an hour, stirring often. Add molasses, butter, seasoning and 
apples; butter pudding dish, pour in mixture and bake slowly three 
hours. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS -Mrs. A. K. Voss 
Make a rich biscuit dough. Roll out a piece of dough as thin 
as pie crust and cut in squares large enough to cover an apple. Put 
into the middle of each piece, two apple halves pared and cored. Put 
a pinch of cinnamon and a spoonful of sugar on the apples and lap the 
dough around them; lay the dumplings in a well buttered dripping 
pan. Put a piece of butter on each, and sprinkle over a large handful 
of sugar and turn in a cupful of boiling water. Bake in a moderate 
oven three-quarters of an hour. Serve with pudding sauce. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE— Miss Laughlin 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one egg, one cup sweet 
milk, three cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder. Bake in 
layers; serve with sauce hot. 

SAUCE 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one pint 
strawberries mashed until juicy. Beat butter and sugar to cream, 
then stir in the berries and beaten whites of two eggs. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE-Mrs. McKisick 
One pint whipped cream, one-half pint milk, one-half gill of 
wine, two-thirds cup gelatine, four eggs. Boil milk and gelatine 
until latter is dissolved. Beat yolks with four tablespoons sugar, 
mix into the gelatine, add whites well whipped and last the cream. 
Line a deep glass dish with sponge cake and fill with above mixture. 

PUDDING SAUCE-Mts. Parloa 

One cuptul butter, two cups powdered sugar, whites of two 
eggs, five tablespoons wine or three of brandy, one-fourth tea cup 
boiling water. Beat the butter to a cream and gradually beat the 
sugar into it. Add whites of eggs, unbeaten, one at a time and 
then the brandy or wine. When all is a light smooth mass add the 
water, beating in a little at a time. Place the bowl in a basin of hot 
water and stir until smooth and frothy, about two minutes. 

HARD SAUCE-Mrs. Bryant 

One-third cup butter, add gradually one cup powdered sugar 
and two tablespoons cream or milk, drop by drop. Add one-third 
teaspoon vanilla. 



PIES ^ ^ ^ ^ 



"No soil upon earth is so dear to our eyes, 
As the soil we first stirred in terrestrial pies." 

— Holmes. 

PUMPKIN PIE -Mrs, Estinghausen 
One cup pumpkin, one cup milk, one-half cup sugar, two eggs, 
one rolled cracker, cinnamon and ginger to taste. This makes one 
large pie. 

LEMON PIE FILLING— Mrs. McKisick 
One and one-half cups sugar, yolks three eggs, two lemons, one 
and one-half tablespoons corn starch, with a cup and a half of boil- 
ing water poured on it, a little salt. Cook above mixture until it 
begins to thicken, then pour it in the pie and cook again in the oven 
until brown, then add the whites with four tablespoons of sugar 
whipped in them. This will make one thick pie. • 

MOCK MINCE PIE-Mrs. Wood 

One cup sugar, one cup raisins, one cup of clabber milk. Spices 
and one teaspoon flour, tablespoon vinegar and little salt. 

MINCE MEAT— Miss Laughlin 

One-half pound suet chopped fine, two pounds beef and two 
pounds apples chopped, one cup sugar, two pounds raisins seeded, 
one-half pound currants, two cups boiled cider, two cups juice of 
sweet spiced fruit, one piece candied lemon peel, one piece citron (cut 
fine) , one teaspoon salt, little cinnamon, one teaspoon nutmeg and 
allspice, a few raisins left whole, one cup vinegar. 

GREEN TOMATO PIE-Mrs. Wood 

One pint minced tomatoes, one pint minced tart apples, two 
cups sugar, one-half cup strong vinegar, two tablespoons flour, one 
teaspoon each of cloves, allspice, cinnamon, nutmeg and black 
pepper. (I sometimes add one teacup raisins, which is an improve- 
ment.) 

APPLE MERINGUE PIE~Miss Laughlin 

Stew seven apples until soft, while hot add one tablespoon 
butter, two tablespoons sugar and mash well. Beat four eggs, leav- 
ing out the whites of two, and stir into hot apple. Flavor with 
nutmeg and lemon juice. Bake with under crust as in custard pie. 
When done, spread meringue made with whites of two eggs and one 
tablespoon of sugar, over top and return to oven to brown. 



FROZEN DAINTIES 



^ 
^ 



"An't please your Honour," quoth the peasant, 
This same dessert is very Pleasant." 

—Pope. 

ICE CREAM— Mrs. Sutherland 

To make one gallon, take one quart rich cream, one and one- 
half quarts milk, one and one-half cups sugar, one and one-half 
teaspoons vanilla or other flavoring as preferred. Freeze, then pack 
for one hour or more. 

ICE CREAM— Mrs. Dwinelle 

One quart milk scalded (not boiled), with three well beaten 
eggs, one and one-half cups sugar and one-third box of Cox's gela- 
tine first dissolved in bowl of milk. Put this in a cool place over 
night. In morning add one quart of cream, two or three teaspoons 
vanilla and either new milk or more cream, enough to fill one gallon 
freezer within two or three inches of the top. Then freeze. 

ICED TEA OR TEA PUNCH— Miss Annie Laughlin 

Juice of three oranges and three lemons. Juice and pulp of one 
pineapple shredded finely with a silver fork; over this pour two 
cups sugar, add six lumps sugar rubbed briskly over the peel of the 
lemons and oranges; one quart strong cold tea, half ceylon and half 
green and one quart of Apollinaris Water, or ice water. Pour all 
this over a large lump of ice in a punch bowl and throw in one pint 
of any fresh fruit in season — strawberries, raspberries or currants. 

FROZEN PUDDING— Mrs. Bryant 

One generous pint milk, two cups granulated sugar, scant one- 
half cup flour, two eggs, two tablespoons gelatine, one quart cream, 
one pound French candied fruit, four tablespoons wine. Let milk 
come to a boil. Beat the flour, one cup of sugar and the eggs to- 
gether and stir into the boiling milk. Cook twenty minutes and 
add gelatine, which has been soaking one or two hours in water, 
enough to cover it; set away to cool; when cool add wine, sugar and 



FROZEN DAINTIES 33 

cream; freeze ten minutes, then add fruit and finish freezing. Take 
out beater, pack smoothly and set away for an hour or two. When 
ready to serve, dip the tin in warm water, turn out cream and .serve 
with whipped cream heaped around it. 

PINE APPLE SHEE^ET— Miss Laughlin 

One can pineapple, one pint sugar, one pint water, two table- 
spoons gelatine (Cox's), juice of three lemons. Boil sugar and 
water ten minutes, cool, add gelatine which has been dissolved in 
cup of water one hour. Add pineapple and lemon juice. At last 
add beaten whites of two eggs and two tablespoons Jamaica rum. 
Freeze. 

NECTAR— Mrs. Sutherland 

Take the pulp and juice of one dozen naval oranges, one and one- 
half dozen large bananas mashed to a smooth paste, one pineapple 
chopped fine, one cup shredded cocoanut, one and one-hall cups 
sugar. Freeze. 

MY DOCTOR^S ICE CREAM— Miss Laughlin 

One tablespoon gelatine soaked in one cup of milk one hour. 
Beat one egg yolk with one cup sugar, add one cup cold milk and 
stir this with cup of milk and gelatine. Put on stove and bring to 
scalding point, stirring well, and set away to cool. Take sufiicient 
cream to nearly fill freezer (three pints) and whip with egg beaten 
until light, not stifi", add another cup sugar. Add prepared ingred- 
ients and flavor. Beat well and then add whites of seven or eight 
eggs beaten light. Freeze. 

PLOMBIERE— Miss Laoghlin 

Take the above receipt of ice cream and after the cream first 
begins to freeze add glazed fruit (sliced) of peaches, apricots, cherries, 
and pineapple. 

AMBROSIA— Mrs. Sutherland 

One dozen sliced bananas, one-half dozen oranges sliced very 
thin, one can pineapple chopped fine, one cup sugar. Mix thoroughly 
and serve ice cold. 



CAKES ^ ^ ^ 



^ 

^ 



"Aye, to the leaveuing, but here's yet in the word hereafter, 
the kneading, the making of the cake, the heating of the 
oven, and the baking. Nay, you must stay the cooling, 
too, or you may chance to burn your mouth." 

— Shakespeare. 

APPLE JELLY CAKE~Mrs. McKisick 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup 
milk, three eggs, white of one left out, two and one-half cups flour, 
two teaspoons yeast powder. Bake in layers. 

FILLING 

One large grated apple, one lemon (grated rind and juice), one 
large cup sugar, one egg. Boil till jelly (ten or fifteen minutes). 

NUT CA^KE—Mfs. A. Faught 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, one-half cup milk, three cups 
flour, three eggs, one cup raisins, one cup walnuts (do not chop 
them but break them in pieces), one-half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon 
cream tartar. Bake two hours. Put walnuts on the frosting. 

NUT CAKE— Mrs, McKisick 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup milk, three cups flour, 
four eggs, two teasj^oons baking powder, two cups finely chopped 
walnuts. 

CREAM PUFFS— Mrs. A. Faught 

Melt one-half cup butter in a cup of hot water and while boiling 
beat in one cup flour. Take from fire and when cold stir in three 
eggs one at a time without first beating them. Drop mixture on 
tins in small spoonfuls and bake in a moderate oven. 

FILLING 
One and one-half cups milk, two eggs, four tablespoons flour, 
sugar to taste and flavor with vanilla. Beat up eggs and sugar, and 



CAKES 35 

Stir in the milk with flavoring and when it comes to a boil, stir in 
flour mixed smooth in a little milk, cool and fill puffs by opening 
them a very little. 

BELMONT CAKE— Mrs. McKisicfc 

One cup butter, three cups sugar, four eggs, one cup sweet milk, 
five cups flour, two pounds raisins, two teaspoons baking powder, 
one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon nutmeg. 
Boil raisins fifteen minutes; when cold, flour them well to prevent 
them from falling. Bake one hour. This will make two loaves. 

LEMON COOKIES-Mrs. Eldredge 

Two and a half cups sugar, two eggs, one large cup lard, one 
pint milk, flour enough to make rather stiff dough, five cents 
worth of baking ammonia dissolved in the milk, five cents worth of 
oil of lemon. Bake in quick oven. 

GINGER BREAD— Mrs. Tartter 

One cup sugar, one tablespoon lard, one-half cup molasses, one 
teaspoon soda, one cup sour milk, two cups flour, one teaspoon each 
of ginger, cinnamon and cloves. 

WALNUT WAFERS-Mrs. Eldredge 

One cup brown sugar, two eggs, pinch of salt, three heaping 
tablespoons flour, one cup chopped walnuts. One teaspoon for each 
wafer dropped on buttered tins and on top of each wafer place half a 
walnut. Bake in quick oven. 

CREAM PUFFS— Mrs. Bryant 

One-half pint hot water, four ounces butter, six ounces flour 
(sifted), five eggs. Boil water and butter; and while boiling stir in 
flour and beat until smooth; remove from stove and when lukewarm 
add beaten yolks and then beaten whites of eggs. Drop on 
buttered pans and bake in moderately hot oven. Fill with whipped 
cream. 

PLAIN DOUGHNUTS— Mrs. Tartter 

One cup sugar, one cup sour milk with a scant teaspoonful of 
soda, one or two eggs, one large spoon of melted butter. Nutmeg 
for flavoring, flour sufficient to roll out. 



36 CAKES 

COOKIES-Mrs. Ford 

Cream half a pound of butter and half pound sugar, add two 
eggs, two tablespoons milk, then three-quarters pound flour and half 
pound corn starch and two teaspoons baking powder. Mix into 
stiff" dough, roll out quarter inch thick. Sprinkle over with sugar, 
cut with round cutter; flavor to taste. 

FRUIT CAKE— Mrs. MaKee 

One pound sugar, one-half pound butter, five well beaten eggs 
(reserve whites until the last), one teaspoon ground cinnamon, one 
teaspoon ground cloves, one teaspoon ground allspice, one-half a 
nutmeg, one teaspoon of soda in six cups sifted flour, one pound 
each of currants and raisins, one-half pound citron, one cup shreded 
cocoanut, one cup almonds or walnuts. Stir well, and just before 
baking, add one cup thick sour cream. Bake slowly for three hours. 

^ BRACKEN^ SPICE LAYER CAKE— Miss Annie Laoghlin 
One-half cup butter, one cup sour milk, one and one-half cups 
brown sugar, two and one-half cups flour, two eggs, one teaspoon 
soda, cinnamon, nutmeg, cocoa and a little cloves. After all is 
well beaten, add one teaspoon baking powder. Bake in layers. 

FILLING FOR CAKE WITHOUT EGGS 

Two cups sugar, butter size of egg, three-quarters cup sweet 
milk. Boil twenty-five minutes, then beat until stiff. 

ORANGE CAKE— Mrs. Dwindle 

Two oranges, two cups sugar, two cups flour, one-half cup water, 
five eggs, one-half teaspoon soda and one teaspoon cream tartar. 
Use the juice and grated rind of oranges. This makes a good moist 
sponge cake or a layer cake, by reserving the juice and rind of one 
orange and whites of one egg to mix with powdered sugar for 
spreading on each layer. 

MARBLE CAKE-Mrs. J. ¥L Faoght 

One-half cup butter, one cup brown sugar, yolks of four eggs, 
one-half cup milk, one teaspoon (each) cinnamon, allspice, cloves, 
two and one-half cups flour. 

WHITE PART 

One-half cup butter, one cup white sugar, whites of four eggs, 
one-half cup milk, two and a half cups flour. Flavor with lemon. 



CAKES 37 

LEMON CAKE^Mrs. Harvey 

Break two eggs into a common sized cup, and fill with rich 
sweet cream. Turn into a mixing bowl, add one cup of sugar, one 
cup flour, two teaspoons baking powder. Beat together thoroughly. 
Bake in two pie pans, when almost cold, split with a broad bladed 
knife and put in the following filling : 

FII.LING 

One cup boiling water, one cup sugar, two tablespoons corn 
starch, mixed smooth with little cold water, butter size of a walnut, 
yolks of two eggs and juice of two lemons. Have water boiling, add 
corn starch, sugar and butter. Let boil until clear and then add 
eggs and juice of lemon. Boil a few minutes. 

SPONGE CAKE-Mrs. Dwinellc 

Take the weight of ten eggs in sugar, add to this the yolks of 
twelve eggs and beat to a froth. Add the juice and grated rind of 
one lemon. Beat the whites of twelve eggs to a stiff froth and mix 
them with the sugar and yolks. Beat the whole without stopping 
for fifteen minutes, then stir in gradually the weight of six eggs in 
sifted flour. As soon as the flour is well mixed in, turn into pans 
lined with buttered paper (shallow pans). Bake immediately in a 
quick but not too hot oven about twenty minutes. 

SPICE CAKE— Mrs. Compton 

Two cups sugar, one cup of butter, one cup sour milk, three 
cups flour, one cup fruit (currants and raisins), three eggs, one 
teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon nutmeg, one 
teaspoon soda put in dry. 

GINGER SNAPS-Mrs. Wood 

Two cups sugar, two cups molasses, one cup butter or lard, 
four eggs, six teaspoons soda, twelve teaspoons of ginger. Flour 
enough to make a stiff dough. 

CREAM CAKE— Mrs. Compton 

One cup of sugar, one cup of cream and milk mixed, one egg, 
two and a half cups flour, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream 
tartar, pinch of salt. 

CREAM FOR FILLING 

One cup sweet cream whipped, two tablespoons sugar, one tea- 
spoon lemon. (I usually put lemon in cream and vanilla in cake.) 



38 • CAKES 

SOFT GINGER BREAD-Mrs. McKisick 

One cup molasses, one-half cup butter, one cup brown sugar, 
one cup sour milk, three cups flour, three eggs, one teaspoon soda. 
Flavor with ginger and a little cinnamon. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE AND FILLING -Miss Ella Wood 
One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup sweet milk, 

one and one-half cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder. Whites 

of four well beaten eggs, added last. 

FILLING 

Three-quarters cup grated chocolate, three-quarters cup sweet 
milk, one-half cup sugar. Yolks of four well beaten eggs, one tea- 
spoon vanilla. Boil until it strings from spoon. 

APPLE FRUIT CAKE-Mrs. JcfL Maddux 

Soak two cups of dried apples over night. In the morning 
drain and chop fine, add one cup of molasses and let it boil slowly 
for three or four hours, until the molasses thickens. Let stand until 
cool, then add one and a half cups brown sugar, one cup butter, half 
cup sour milk, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon allspice and one of 
cinnamon, one teaspoon soda, three eggs, three and one-half cups 
flour. Bake in two square or one five-quart tin. If baked in the 
large tin, bake slowly for two and a half hours. A teaspoon of 
baking powder added, makes the cake lighter. 

DRIED APPLE CAKE— Mrs. A. Faught 

One and a half cups brown sugar, one-half cup melted butter, 
four eggs, four and a half cups flour, two and a half teaspoons soda. 
Soak two cups dried apples over night, drain and chop fine in the 
morning. Boil apples two hours in three cups molasses. Let mix- 
ture cool then add two cups seeded raisins, cloves, cinnamon and 
allspice to taste. Mix with first mixture and bake. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE FOR PLAIN CAKE-Mrs. Bryant 

Beat one-half cup butter and one cup sugar to a cream. Add 
the white of one egg beaten stiff and a large cup of ripe strawberries 
mashed. Pour over plain cake and serve. 

LEMON FILLING-Mrs. Miller 

One cup sugar, one teaspoon flour, one tablespoon water, one 
lemon, juice and peel, one egg. Boil until thick, in double boiler. 



CAKKS 39 

BOILED WHITE FROSTING— Mrs. Bryant 

One pint sugar, just enough water to moisten it. Boil until it 
strings from the spoon. Have the whites of two eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth and pour drop by drop the hot syrup on it. Beat con- 
tinually until thick enough to spread on cake. Flavor with vanilla. 

ICING— Mrs. Tartter 

Two cups sugar, butter size of an egg, three-quarters cup milk. 
Boil about ten minutes, then beat until thick. 

MARSH-MELLOW FILLING— Mrs. Bryant 
Dissolve over night, three-quarters of a pound of marsh-mellows 
in one-half pint cream. In the morning, beat until smooth and 
spread between layers and on top of cake. 

ANGEL CAKE— Miss Laughlin 

Whites of eleven eggs, one and one-half tumblers (one and one- 
half pints), sifted granulated sugar, one tumbler sifted flour, one tea- 
spoon vanilla, one scant teaspoon cream tartar. Sift the flour four 
times, then add cream tartar and sift again. Sift sugar four times; 
mix flour and sugar and sift four times; beat the whites of eleven 
eggs on a large platter until very light, add pinch of salt, vanilla 
and three tablespoons cold water, beating continually. Sift in dry 
ingredients, stirring just enough to take it all up. Bake about fort}^- 
five minutes, using a new cake pan or a pan that has never been 
greased. Do not open oven door until cake has been in fifteen 
minutes. When done, take from oven and turn cake pan upside 
down to cool, letting edge of pan rest on three cups. When cold, 
take out of pan by loosening around edge with knife; then ice. 

ICING 

One and a half tumblers sugar, one-half tumbler cold water, 
one-fifth teaspoon cream tartar. Stir until all melted and strain; 
now place on stove and boil until it hairs. Do not stir while boiling. 
When done pour in a platter and when partially cool, add one tea- 
spoon lemon juice. Beat until cold; if icing gets too cold or stiff", set 
platter on stove. 

WALNUT CAKE— Mrs. M. E. Slusser 

Whites of six eggs beaten light, one and one-half cups white 
sugar, two cups flour, one-half cup sweet milk, one teaspoon baking 



40 CAKES 

powder, two cups walnuts chopped fine. Mix cake thoroughly and 
then add nuts and bake in a moderate oven ; flavor with lemon. 

ICING 

One cup white sugar, enough water to dissolve it. Boil until 
it strings. Pour over the beaten white of one egg while hot, beating 
all the time. 

LAURA^S BIRTHDAY CAKE— Mrs. Laughlin 

One cup butter, one cup sweet milk, two cups pulverized sugar, 
three cups flour, one-half cup cornstarch, four eggs, two teaspoons 
baking powder, one teaspoon vanilla. Bake in loaf. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE— Mrs. M. E. Slusser 

Two cups white sugar, one cup butter, one cup sweet milk, two 
cups flour, one cup cornstarch, whites of five eggs well beaten, one 
heaping teaspoon baking powder. 

FILLING 

Two bars of Eagle brand chocolate dissolved, whites of two 
eggs beaten stiff, two cups sugar, boil until it strings. Flavor with 
vanilla. 

COOKIES— Mrs. Voss 

Two eggs, one and one-half cups butter, two cups sugar, one 
cup milk, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream tartar, flavor with 
vanilla ; flour enough to make a stiff batter. 

GINGER COOKIES— Mrs. Voss 

One cup sugar, one cup molasses, one cup butter, one egg, one 
tablespoon vinegar, one tablespoon ginger, one teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in boiling water, mix like cooky dough, rather soft. 

SCOTCH FRUIT CAKE— Mrs. J. H. Shearer 

One cup butter, two cups white sugar, one cup milk, four cups 
flour well sifted with two heaping teaspoons baking powder, nine 
eggs beaten yolks and whites separately, one pound raisins, one- half 
pound currants, one-quarter pound citron. Cream the butter and 
sugar, add milk gradually, then beaten yolks of eggs, and lastly, 
while stirring in the flour, the whites well whipped. Flavor with 
one teaspoon each lemon and vanilla. Have raisins seeded and 
citron sliced thin. Wash and dry currants before using, and flour 



CAKES 



41 



all fruit slightly. In putting in pan place first a thin layer of cake, 
then sprinkle in some of the three kinds of fruit, then a layer of 
cake and so on, always finishing ofif with a thin layer of cake. Bake 
in a moderate oven for two hours. (Tested by many and never 
failed.) 

DELLA^S CHOCOLATE CAKE -Miss Laughlin 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, three cups 
flour, whites of seven or eight eggs, two teaspoons yeast powder, 
one teaspoon vanilla. Bake in dripping pan. 

FILLING 

One cup chocolate, three cups sugar, three-quarters cup sweet 
milk, three eggs. Mix thoroughly and boil twenty minutes. Let 
it cool a little before putting on cake. 

COCOANUT POUND CAKE— Mrs. Voss 

One-half cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup milk, five eggs 
beaten stiff, one teaspoon soda and two of cream tartar stirred into 
four cups sifted flour. After beating all well together add a small 
cocoanut grated. Line the cake pans with well-buttered paper. 
Spread over the top a thin frosting sprinkled thickly with cocoanut. 

NANNIE'S LAYER CAKE— Miss Laughlin 

One-half cup butter, one cup milk, two cups sugar, three cups 
flour, four eggs, two teaspoons baking powder. Flavor to taste. 
Put sugar and flour in mixing bowl and stir well. Beat eggs 
separately, add milk to yolks, add this to flour and stir well. Add 
butter warmed and beat thoroughly. Now add baking powder, and 
last cut and fold in the whites of eggs well beaten. 

FAMILY FRUIT CAKE— Mrs. Brings 

Three pounds dry flour, one pound sweet butter, one pound 
sugar, three pounds stoned raisins, two pounds currants, three- 
quarters pound sweet almonds blanched, one pound citron sliced 
fine, twelve eggs, one tablespoon each allspice and cinnamon, two 
tablespoons nutmeg, one teaspoon cloves, one wine glass wine, one- 
half pint brandy (wine may be omitted, if desired), one coffee cup 
molasses with spice in it, steep this gently twenty or thirty minutes, 
not boiling hot ; beat the eggs very light, put fruit in last, stirring 
it gradually ; also a teaspoon of soda dissolved in a tablespoon of 



42 CAKES 

water. The fruit should be well floured ; if necessary add flour 
after the fruit is in. Butter a sheet of paper and line the pan, bake 
three or four hours according to thickness of loaves, in a tolerably 
hot oven and with steady heat. I^et it cool in the oven gradually. 
Ice when cold. It improves the cake to add three teaspoons baking 
powder to the flour. This is a fine wedding cake recipe, and can 
be made smaller by taking one-third of all the ingredients required. 

WHITE CAKE WITH CAROMEL FILLING 

Miss Annie Laugfhiin 

Whites of eight eggs, two cups white sugar, one cup butter, one 
cup milk, three and one-half cups flour, one-half cup cornstarch, 
two teaspoons baking powder. Bake in layers. 

CAROMEL FILLING 

One and one-half cups cream, one and one-half cups brown 
sugar, three tablespoons butter, three tablespoons vanilla, two table- 
spoons flour. Cook until thickens and spread between layers. 



PICKLES ^ 'j« ^ 



^ 

^ 



"Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers." 

GRAPE PICKLES-Mrs. Jas, H. Laughlin 

One gallon grapes, one quart vinegar, one quart sugar, two 
tablespoons cinnamon, two tablespoons cloves. Free bunches of 
muscat grapes (of withered grapes) and wash well. Now dip 
several times into a kettle of boiling water and place in stone jar. 
Boil sugar and vinegar together with spice which is tied up in thin 
cloth and pour over grapes hot. Let cool and tie up well. 

PICKLED GRAPES— Mrs. A. Faught 

Fill ajar with layers of sugar and nice bunches of grapes, not 
too ripe; fill one-third full of good cold vinegar and cover tightly. 

PLUM JAM— Mrs, Dwinelle 

To seven pounds of Damson plums, add four pounds sugar, one 
pint vinegar, one tablespoon ground cloves and one small spoonful 
whole mace. Put spice in a bag. Boil four hours over slow fire, 
stirring occasionally. 

PICKLED GREEN TOMATOES— Mrs. James Laughlin 

One peck green tomatoes, one dozen onions. Slice tomatoes' 
and onions, thin and sprinkle with one pint salt. Let stand over 
night; next morning drain and cover with vinegar and one-quarter 
pound of mustard seed and a few sticks of cinnamon. Tie up loosely 
in cloth, one-half pound mustard, one ounce cloves, one ounce of 
ginger. Let all simmer about twenty minutes. 

TOMATO CATSUP— Mrs. Porrington 

Twenty large ripe tomatoes, six good sized onions, three large 
green peppers, three tablespoons salt, six tablespoons brown sugar, 
three teaspoons ground cinnamon, two small teaspoons ground 
ginger, one-half teaspoon 'ground cloves, six cups good vinegar. 
Mash the tomatoes, chop or slice the onions and peppers. Mix all 



44 PICKLES 

in a porcelain kettle and boil till perfectly soft and when cool, rub 
them through a colander and cook down to a proper consistency, 
that of catsup, and bottle for use. 

GREEN TOMATO PRESERVES-Mrs, Jeff. Maddux 

Eight pounds of small green tomatoes (pierce each with a fork), 
seven pounds sugar, the juice of four lemons, one ounce of ginger 
and mace mixed. Heat altogether slowly and boil until fruit is 
clear. Take from kettle in a perforated skimmer and spread on 
dishes to cool. Boil syrup till thick, put fruit in jars and pour 
syrup over hot. Keep in a cool dry place. 

PICALILLI— Mrs. ), H. Faoght 

Two dozen cucumbers, two heads cabbage chopped fine and let 
stand over night with two cups salt mixed in it. Fifteen long green 
peppers chopped fine, five dozen small silver onions. Soak peppers 
and onions well in salt water, drain all thoroughly, two ounces white 
mustard seed, two ounces celery seed, one ounce timmeric powder, 
one-half pound mustard dissolved in vinegar, one-half pound brown 
sugar, cover all with cider vinegar and boil thirty minutes. 

CHILI SAUCE— Mrs. Baldwin 

Two red peppers, eighteen ripe tomatoes, six large onions, 
three cups of vinegar, two tablespoons salt, six tablespoons sugar, 
one tablespoon mustard, one tablespoon cinnamon. Chop tomatoes, 
onions and peppers fine. Boil one hour; then add vinegar, mustard, 
salt and sugar. Seal well. 

HYDEN SAUCE— Miss Laughlin 

One gallon finely chopped cabbage, one-half gallon finely 
chopped green tomatoes, one quart finely chopped onions, one pint 
finely chopped green peppers. Remove seeds from green peppers^ 
sprinkle with a tea cup of salt. Let stand about six hours and then 
bag and hang up to drain. Let hang all night. In morning place 
on stove two quarts vinegar, two pounds brown sugar, two ounces 
Tumeric, one tablespoon celery seed, one tablespoon cinnamon, four 
tablespoons ground mustard. Heat to boiling and add the chopped 
greens. Set on back of stove and simmer twenty minutes. Set in 
small jars and cover with grated horseradish. 



PICKLES 45 

ADELE^S PICKLES— Miss Laughlin 

Pick small cucumbers fresh from vine, put in a jar and cover 
with water, allowing one pint of salt to one gallon of cucumbers. 
Let soak over night. Next morning place one-half gallon of vinegar 
on stove, let come to near a boil, put pickles in and let simmer about 
ten minutes (be sure and not let them boil). At the same time put 
on the stove in another kettle one-half gallon vinegar (more or less 
according to how many jars are to be put up). To this vinegar add 
one pint sugar, one-half teaspoon alum, two tablespoons black pepper, 
mustard, ginger, cinnamon and mace. Tie spices up in a bag and 
boil slowl}^ ten minutes. When pickles have simmered long enough 
pack down in glass jars. Pour over the hot spiced vinegar, put in a 
good piece of horseradish and five or six cloves to each jar and seal. 

SPICED CHERRIES -Mrs. R. H. Thomson 

Eight pounds Queen Anne cherries (stones removed), four 
pounds sugar, one-half cup vinegar, and two tablespoons cloves, 
just enough water to moisten sugar. Let them come to a boil, then 
put in two tablespoons whole cloves tied in a thin cloth. In a few 
minutes put in the vinegar, then remove the fruit into the jars and 
let the S5^rup boil down a little. Pour into the jars and seal. 

APPLE AND CRANBERRY JELLY— Mrs. Thomson 

Two cups apple juice, one cup cranberry, three cups sugar. 
When you are tired of making plain apple jelly, this is very pretty 
and the flavor is excellent. 



GEO. D. DORNIN, 

Manager 



PACIFIC DEPT. 



GEO. W. DORNIN, 

AssT. Manager 



Spri9(jfield pire ^^ /T\ari9e 

Ii75ura9ee Co/r^papy 

^'The Standard'' {Boston) of Jamiary 2'jth, says: 

"EXCELLENT SHOWING OF THE SPRINGFIELD F & M . 



The largest fire insurance company chartered by the State of Massachusetts, the Spring- 
field Fire and Marine, increased its assets during 1899, $132,281, making the total amount, 
January 1, $4,906,939, and added $88,523 to surplus, giving it a surplus to policy-holders of 
$3,18.5,092. Since organization in 1849, the Springfield has paid $26,316,489 for losses, its policies 
ranking A No. 1. The growth of the company has not been spasmodic, but rather year by 
year, each recurring annual statement showing a gain over the previous one. At the close 
of 1899 the amount at risk reached $282,066,182. Premium receipts for the year were $1,692,182, 
losses paid, $1,066,240, and dividends to stockholders, $150,000. The Springfield not only is 
fortunate in its official statf, the members of which work in perfect harmony with President 
Damon, but also in its ability to attract to itself agents of unquestioned loyalty, who contrib- 
ute their full share towards upholding the banner of the Springfield and making its continued 
success assured." 



"The proof of the pudding 
is in the eating," is an axiom 
with all good housekeepers. 
In like manner, we make 
claim to the superiority of 
good insurance companies 
in the test which years of 
service, steady accumula- 
tions of reserve sufficient to 
meet all emergencies, and 
honorable dealing with 
agents and policy holders, 
present. 



M^ 



f^n 



The record of the 
National Fire Insur- 
ance Co. of Hartford, 
Connecticut, and the 
Springfield Fire and 
Marine Insurance Co. 
of Springfield, Mass., 
in all these respects, 
is shown in the figures 
presented in this vol- 
ume. 



CONFECTIONERY ^ 



^ 
^ 



"Swetts to the Sweet." 

CREAM CANDY-Mrs, Bryant 

Two coffee cups granulated sugar, one teacup hot water, one 
large kitchen spoonful of glucose, pinch of cream tartar. Stir on 
stove until sugar is dissolved, then boil without stirring until it 
strings or threads from the spoon. Pour into platter, flavor with 
one teaspoon vanilla and let cool for five or ten minutes, them beat 
until it turns a white creamy mass. 

UNCOOKED CREAM CANDY— Miss Annie Laughlin 

Put the white of one egg in a glass. In another glass meas- 
ure the same amount of water. Beat the egg to a not very stiff 
froth. Now add the water and beat well. Add confectioner's 
sugar until it is the consistency of soft dough. Divide into portions; 
to some add chocolate, to some cocoanut, fruit coloring, chopped 
nuts; flavoring each of these portions to suit the fancy. Mold these 
into any desired form, if too drj?^ add a few drops of water. 

FUDGE— Mrs. Wilkinson 

One cup brown sugar, one cup white sugar, one cup milk, two 
heaping tablespoons grated chocolate, piece of butter size of an egg, 
one cup chopped nuts. Boil all together from twenty to thirty 
minutes. Test by stirring a small quantity in a cup. Stir the 
mixture while boiling constantly and also after taking off stove 
— until it is cool. 

PANOCHE— Miss Annie Lattghlin 

One and one-half cups brown sugar, one half cup white sugar, 
one tablespoon butter, two tablespoons milk; place these ingredients 
in a granite pan, set over a good fire, and stir constantly for about 
four minutes after it begins to boil. Test by dropping a bit in cold 
water; if it gets tough, but not brittle, it is done; stir in one cup of 
shelled peanuts and pour on buttered plates. 



48 CONFECTIONERY 

MAPLE SUGAR CREAMS— Mrs, Bryant 

Three cups maple syrup, one large kitchen spoon glucose, a 
pinch of cream tartar. Boil until it threads from the spoon; Pour 
on platter and beat until cold. Reheat in double boiler or chafing 
dish and drop by teaspoonfuls on buttered paper. 

STUFFED DATES AND FIGS— Miss Laughlin 

Prepare filling of whipped white of egg, stirred thickly with 
chopped nuts and powdered sugar, a few drops of lemon juice or 
sherry-brandy gives change to flavor. Stone dates and cut open the 
figs. Put in a little filling, and press neatly together, sprinkle with 
powdered sugar. 

STUFFED DATES— Miss Laughlin 

Chop fine any or several kinds of nuts, moisten them with a few 
teaspoonfuls of sherry, brandy or orange juice, and sprinkle with 
confectioner's sugar to make them stick together. Remove stones 
from dates and press in a little of mixture. Roll in sugar. 

SALTED ALMONDS— Mrs. Bryant 

Crack and blanch your almonds, then dry with cloth. Have 
ready a small pan with olive oil heated very hot. Drop in your 
almonds, a few at a time and brown, stirring all the time. When a 
good brown, take out and put in colander and sprinkle with salt. If 
your olive oil is not burnt you can use it again. 



Breakfast and Luncheon Dishes 



^ 

^ 



"Dinner may be pleasant; 
So may social tea; 
But yet, methinks the breakfast 
Is best of all the three." 

—AnoH. 

BAKED EGGS— Mrs. Dornin 

Two cups of cold chopped ham, two tablespoons cracker 
crumbs, moistened with water. Put in baking pan, making round 
holes in the mixture; break into each hole one egg, season with 
pepper, salt, and small pieces of butter. Bake in hot oven until eggs 
are cooked, and serve hot. 

CODFISH BALLS— Mrs. K, 

Two cups salt codfish, one quart raw potatoes (six good sized 
ones), two teaspoons melted butter, two eggs, one saltspoon pepper, 
salt if needed. Wash fish and pick apart in cold water in one-half 
inch pieces ; pare raw potatoes and cut into quarters, put potatoes 
and codfish into boiling water, cook twenty-five minutes, or until 
they are soft ; drain very dry and shake over the stove ; mash 
together until you cannot distinguish one from the other ; beat eggs 
light, mix into fish with pepper and butter ; work together with 
masher until light. Have fat very hot, make mixture into small 
balls with floured hands, and cook in wire basket until a rich brown. 
Drain on brown paper before serving. 

GERMAN TOAST— Miss Laughlin 
Take stale bread, slice, dip in sweet milk and lay in baking 
pan. Over this pour four, five or six well beaten eggs, seasoned 
with salt, pepper and one teaspoonful of cornstarch. Bake a few 
minutes and serve hot. 

EGG TOAST— Miss Laughlin 

Slice stale bread and dip in sweet milk ; now dip in well beaten 
eggs and fry quickly in hot lard. Serve immediately. 



50 BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 

EGGS AND TOMATOES SPANISH— M, R, R, 

(THREE PERSONS) 

Three tomatoes, three bell peppers, six eggs, one tablespoon 
butter, little Worcestershire sauce, salt and a little sugar. Take 
three firm ripe tomatoes, three mild bell peppers ; peel tomatoes and 
slice, also slice peppers. Put in hot frying pans, the butter, add toma- 
toes and peppers, also a little salt and a pinch of sugar. When tender, 
break over this six eggs — do not break the yolks. Season with a 
dash of Worcestershire. 

SAUTED CHICKEN A LA REGENCE— Miss Laughlin 

Joint young chicken, roll in flour and fry. Remove from fat 
when done. Stir in two tablespoons flour and dilute with one-half 
pint stock made from trimmings of chicken or beef, one gill mush- 
room juice and one gill cream. When all is smooth, boil up and 
add half can of chopped mushrooms, and pour over the fried 
chicken. This is a most delectable dish. 

MINCED TURKEY WITH POACHED EGGS— Mrs. Dornin 

Take all small pieces of cold turkey, the quantity you wish, 
add to it some celery chopped very fine, season with pepper and 
salt. Put a little butter in hot frying pan, put above mixture in 
and moisten with turkey gravy or soup stock. Drop as many eggs 
as needed in boiling water, when done have the meat arranged on 
pieces of buttered toast. Spread meat away from center and put 
one egg in place on the toast. Cold lamb, chicken or other meats 
are good fixed this way. 

CHEESE FONDU— Mrs. Wilkinson 

One-half cup rich cheese grated, one-half tablespoon butter, 
one cup hot milk, one egg, one salt-spoon salt, one-half salt-spoon 
pepper, one cup soft bread crumbs. Melt the cheese and butter in 
the hot milk, add the egg, well beaten, the seasoning and crumbs. 
Bake in a quick oven until brown. 

POT ROAST OF LIVER— Miss Laughlin 

Cut two in squares of liver and drop into an iron kettle that has 
had two tablespoon fuls of lard or drippings in it and made very 
hot. Stir the liver often and when browned, pour in two pints 
water, salt, pepper and an onion. Cover and simmer until done. 
Thicken gravy with cracker crumbs. 



BREAKFAST AND LUNCHKON DISHES 5I 

LUNCH DISH— Mrs, Porcher 

One cup chopped cold beef or chicken mixed with one and one- 
half cups cold rice, two hard boiled eggs chopped fine, little gravy, 
small piece butter, pepper, and salt, water enough to moisten it. 
Put in'frjdng pan and stir with fork until light, and then brown. 

CHICKEN AU SUPREME— Miss Annie Laughlin 

Cut the chicken as for frying; salt, pepper and flour each piece 
as it is laid in the spider with hot lard and butter, fry to a light 
brown, dredge in two tablespoons flour, cover with hot water, 
simmer slowl}^ until tender. lyift out chicken and finish the sauce 
with seasoning to taste and half-pint minced mushrooms. Place 
chicken in deep dish and pour on sauce. 

GARDEN PEPPERS STUFFED WITH MEAT— Mrs, Bryant 

Take two cups of cold beef, mutton, chicken or veal and chop 
fine. Mix with equal amount rice (boiled) or breadcrumbs, one 
chopped onion, salt and pepper. Remove tops and seeds from six 
bell peppers, then scald and wash. Fill with meat mixture and 
stand in baking pan, add one-half cup of soup stock or water, two 
tablespoons of butter and bake in slow oven one hour, basting often. 

HAMBURG LOAF— Mrs. R, H, Thomson 

Two pounds of Hamburg steak, one quart of bread crumbs, one 
heaping tablespoon butter, salt and pepper to taste. Put all in a 
mixing bowl and pour into it boiling water, stirring until it is well 
mixed and quite moist. Put into a long narrow baking pan and 
bake three-fourths of an hour; if the loaf is thick give it fifteen 
minutes more. 

STUFFED EGGS— Miss Laoghlin 

Boil fresh eggs about fifteen minutes, when cold, remove shell, 
cut in halves. Now mash yolk with silver fork, add salt, pepper, 
celery, salt and salad dressing. Cream well and fill white cups. 

BAKED HARD BOILED EGGS— Mrs, Bryant 

Six hard boiled eggs cut in thin slices. Place in a baking dish 
with alternate layers of grated cheese, sprinkled with pepper and 
salt. Cover the top with a layer of bread crumbs dotted with butter, 
and bake fifteen minutes; brown well and serve hot. 



52 BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 

CHICKEN PIE 

Two nice tender chickens, one sweetbread, two dozen raw 
oysters and one onion. Stew the chickens with the onion — the 
latter must be taken out whole. Season with salt, pepper and 
butter, thicken with flour and add one cupful of sweet cream, then 
set aside to cool. Stew the sweetbread, and when cold, cut in thin 
slices. Make a nice puff paste, line your dish and place a cup in 
center. Next lay the chicken and sweetbread in the dish and strew 
oysters evenly over them. Cover with upper crust, make a small 
hole in the center and bake. 

SPANISH STEW— Miss S, E. Polhemus 

Take a good sized round steak, cut into small pieces and fry 
with an onion until nicely browned. Dredge with flour and cover 
with water. Add one quart of ripe tomatoes, salt, small red peppers 
to suit the taste. Cook this until meat is thoroughly done, at least 
two hours. 

LANCASHIRE PIE— Miss Laughlin 

Take cold meat, beef, veal or mutton, chop fine and season as 
for hash. Take hot mashed potatoes ready for table. Place layer 
of meat, then potatoes, meat, then potatoes. Potatoes come last. 
Smooth with knife and place in oven. Bake until brown and serve 
in same dish. 

A LUNCH DISH— Miss Laughlin 

Nearly fill a pudding dish with cooked macaroni. Make a 
hole in center and put in chopped cold roast, mutton or steak which 
has been seasoned. Pour over all the juice of cooked tomatoes. 
Cover whole with bread crumbs, over which pour gravy or melted 
butter. 

CORN OYSTERS-Mts. Dwinelle 

Grate six ears of corn ; mix with the grated corn one table- 
spoon of flour, yolks of two eggs, and a little salt. Beat all well 
together, then fry in the shape of oysters in fresh lard or butter. 

MEAT SCALLOP— Miss Annie Laughlin 
Cracker crumbs, macaroni, cold meat, gravy or soup stock. 
Boil macaroni until soft. Take pudding dish, cover bottom first 
with cracker crumbs, then a laj^er of meat cut fine and seasoned 



BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 53 

with pepper and salt. Then a layer of macaroni, bits of butter, 
then a layer of crumbs, meat, etc., until dish is filled, but crumbs 
last. Pour over all gravy ; milk would do if no gravy. Bake 
about three-quarters of an hour. 

MEAT AND TOMATO fSCALLOPED) 

Made the same as meat scallop, ripe tomatoes taking the place 
of macaroni. Season with pepper, salt, butter, and add no gravy 
or milk. Last laj^er is to be tomatoes and bread crumbs. Bake in 
moderate oven. 

CURRIED EGGS— Mrs, Bryant 

Mix one tablespoon of cornstarch or wheat flour and one tea- 
spoon of curry powder to a smooth paste with a little cold milk. 
Pour this into one pint boiling milk, stirring until it thickens. 
Break an egg carefully in a saucer, slip it into the boiling liquid and 
let it poach until it sets (about two minutes). Have ready squares 
of buttered toast, and as the eggs are cooked, lift them out and lay 
one on each. When all done, pour remaining liquid around them. 

MEAT POT PIE 

Cut meat in small pieces, stew in water in which is cup of milk. 
When tender add one egg and one tablespoonful of butter, salt and 
pepper. Crust as for pie. 

POTATOES A LA DUCHESSE 

Mold out potatoes into cakes, size of biscuits. Glaze with 
beaten egg and bake to light brown. 

OYSTER ON TOAST 

Chop fine fifteen oysters, add salt and pepper and a little nut- 
meg, one gill cream, one tablespoon flour. Place on buttered toast. 

CODFISH BROILED-Mrs. Dornin 

Cut pieces of white codfish in halves and soak over night. 
Change water two or three times in evening and rinse in clear water 
in morning. Dry on cloth, brush a little butter over each piece and 
broil. Serve with lemon juice. 

PRESSED HAM 

Chop fine cold boiled ham, add a few spoonfuls of hot soup 
stock and melted butter ; put in mold and press. When cold turn 
out and slice. 



54 BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 

HAM CROQUETTES— Miss Laughlin 

Chop fine cold cooked ham, one egg to each person. Beat egg, 
mix with chopped meat, make into balls and fr}'^ in butter. 

HASH ON TOAST— Miss Laughlin 

Chop any cold meat, season and cook the same as hash. Have 
ready bread nicely toasted and buttered. Place a spoonful of hash 
on each slice, set in oven a few moments and send to table smoking 
hot. 

CHICKEN RICE PIE-Mrs, Porchcr 

lyine a crock with four slices raw bacon ; around sides put cold 
boiled rice. Fill bottom of dish with boiled chicken and six hard 
boiled eggs. On top put good rich crust. Bake one hour and a half. 
Serve hot. 

EGGS ON TOAST— Miss Laughlin 

Toast as many slices of bread as persons. Take as many eggs. 
Separate yolks from whites and do not break. Beat whites to stiff 
froth, place on the buttered toast, make a small hole and drop on 
yellow and place in oven a few minutes. 

PAULINE'S RICE PAN CAKES— Miss Laoghlin 

Three cups rice, one-balf pint flour, two teaspoons baking 
powder, one egg, one tablespoon sugar, milk to make batter not too 
thin. Serve hot with maple syrup. 

OMELET -Mrs. Briggs 

Four eggs, salt to taste, two tablespoons cream. Beat the yolks 
alone to a smooth batter, add cream, salt and pepper, lastly the 
well beaten whites. Have frying pan very hot, put in a tablespoon 
of butter which should instantly hiss. Follow it quickly with the 
mixture and do not stir this after it goes in. Cook over a hot fire 
and as the egg sets, loosen it from the edge of the pan without 
breaking, turn half of the omelet over upon itself before turning 
from pan upon a hot dish. Serve hot. 

WAFFLES— Miss Lawghlin 

Beat well the yolks of three eggs. To this add one and a 
quarter cups sweet milk, one pint flour, one-half teaspoon salt, one 
teaspoon baking powder. Sift flour and add the liquid gradually. 



BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES 55 

Lastly, cut and fold the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Serve with 
syrup made as follows: One cup sugar, one-quarter cup water, 
when thick add one tablespoon lemon juice and one teaspoon butter. 
Do not boil after adding lemon juice. 

CORN MEAL WAFFLES— Miss Laughlin 

One quart buttermilk, three egg yolks (well beaten), one tea- 
spoon soda, dissolved in a little warm water, little salt and corn 
meal to make batter a little thicker than for pan-cakes. 



-if a 



For the Invalid^s Tray ^ 



^ 
^ 



"Simple diet is best, for many dishes bring many diseases, 
and rich sauces are worse than even heaping several meats 
upon each other." — Pliny. 

NOURISHING DRINK— Miss Elk Wood 

One teaspoon dry coffee in one cup milk brought to a boil. 
Have ready a well beaten egg, add strained milk to the egg, sweeten 
if desired. 

CHEESE STRAWS— Miss Laughlin 

Take a pint of flour and one-half pint grated cheese. Mix 
them and make a paste with lard as you do for pies. Roll out in a 
thick sheet, cut in strips half an inch broad and five or six inches 
long, bake a light brown. 

BEEF BROTH— Mrs. Baldwin 

Trim off all the fat from one pound round steak, add three 
coffee cups cold water, also salt and pepper and let simmer about 
one-half hour or until there is a pint of broth. Strain through fine 
sieve and serve hot. 

EXTRACT OF BEEF BLOOD 

Catch in bowl warm beef blood and let stand until it clots, 
which will not be long. Now take out and lay on a clean and 
smooth board and cut in narrow strips, tilt board and stand in hot 
sun. In a short time all watery substance will have run away and 
that left is dry and will crumble. It must crumble or it is not 
ready, rub in palm of hand until a fine powder, sift through fine 
wire sieve, bottle and it will keep for years. This can be taken in 
plain soup or dry as most acceptable to patient; the strength 
gained is wonderful. When cutting to dry, cut in as narrow strips 
as possible. To be given to any person with little strength or 
vitality. 



roR THK invatjd's tray 57 

GRAPE JUICE— Mrs, Wm, Woolsey 
Take Zinfandel grapes and run through a cider mill. Put juice 
in earthen jars, where it stands over night. Next morning pour 
into preserving kettle only what looks clear, rejecting sediment, 
which is the sugar that ferments. Put kettle on fire and bring juice 
to a good boiling point only. Skim if needful. Bottle while hot, 
straining through a thin cloth. Seal bottles and keep in a dark 
place. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL 

Pick over and \vash the berries, and drain ; place in double 
boiler and let them steam, the water boiling well about them for 
good thirty minutes. Turn them into a jelly bag and hang up to 
drain ; do not squeeze the bag. To one pint of juice put one-half 
pound sugar and boil five minutes. When cold add half as much 
brandy as juice. Bottle and cork tight. 

MUTTON TOAST 

Cut in pieces one pound of mutton, the bony part is the best, 
and put on the stove early, in one quart of cold water. Cook slowly. 
When the meat is tender, strain the broth through a sieve and set 
away to cool. After removing the grease that has risen to the top, 
let the broth come to boiling, and add flour thickening, with a little 
cream or butter. Meanwhile toast slices of white or brown bread , 
and dip in hot water to soften. Pour the stew over the bread, adding 
the pieces of mutton. 

OAT MEAL BLANC MANGE 

Stir two heaping tablespoonfuls fine oat meal into a little cold 
water and then stir in a quart of boiling milk ; boil a few minutes, 
salt, turn into a mold. When cold, eat with jelly and cream. 

PURE BEEF JUICE 

Take good juicy round steak, remove all fat. Place in hot 
skillet, sear both sides of meat, gash pieces with knife, place on 
earthen plate, cover with another plate and set in hot oven. Let 
remain until all juice leaves meat. One tablespoon of this juice is 
equivalent to one cup of broth. 

REFRESHING DRINK 

Cover raspberries with vinegar and soak over night. Drain off 
or squeeze out the juice, to every pint of which add one pound of 
sugar. Let it simmer about fifteen minutes; when cool, bottle, and 
when u.sed as a drink put in as much of it to a glass of water as''_is 
palatable to the invalid. 



Cooking Dried Fruits 

To MAKE a most delicious conserve of either apples, apricots, 
pears, peaches, figs or prunes, proceed as follows : Pick over 
the fruit and wash it thoroughly but quickly. Put it in a 
dish, earthen is preferable, at about noontime and, covering it 
generously with water, allow it to soak during that afternoon and 
night. In the morning take the fruit carefully out into a cooking 
utensil — a granite-ware kettle or saucepan or an earthen crock — and 
pour over it, being careful not to disturb the sediment at the bottom 
the water in which it was soaked ; then cover the dish tightly and 
set it either on the back of the range or in a moderate oven, where 
it will quietly simmer, and let it remain there for eight or ten hours. 

If you have an unreasoning sweet tooth, and must spoil things 
with sugar, add that article not more than twenty minutes before 
removing the cooked fruit from the range, and add it sparingly, 
since, by this method of cooking, all the natural flavor and sacchar- 
ine quality of the fruits are preserved, and nearly every one who is 
privileged to taste them thus prepared readily concedes that they are 
quite "suflBcient unto themselves." 

Prunes and dried grapes become simply "idealized" under this 
treatment — plump, smooth, juicy and generally delicious, and the 
sliced or quartered fruits rival the daintiest and richest of preserve, 
in their amber-hued translucency, as well as in flavor. 

Verily, if the cooks and housewives would add to their little 
bills of fares the dried fruits of California, cooked after the fashion 
herein prescribed, the cry for "more" would be so loud and so 
unanimous that all the State's broad orchards would be quite inade- 
quate to supply the demand of even the home market. 

Oakmcad Orchards. 

Fulton P. O., Sonoma Count}-, Cal. 

Geo. D. Dornin. 



Table of Weights or Measures 

(SELECTED) 

WEIGHT 

I quart of Sifted Flour (well heaped) i pound 

I " " Unsifted Flour i pound, i ounce 

3 coffee cups Sifted Flour (level ) i pound 

4 teacups " " " i 

1 pint Soft Butter (well packed) i 

2 teacups " " " I 

i'/^ pints Powdered .Sugar i 

2 coffeecups " " (level) i 

234^ teacups " " " I 

1 pint Granulated Sugar (heaped) 14 ounces 

i}4 coffeecups " " (level) i pound 

2 teacups " " " I " 

1 pint Best Brown Sugar 13 ounces 

iX coflFeecups Best Brown Sugar (level ) i pound 

2 X teacups " " " " I " 

2 tablespoons (well rounded) Powdered Sugar or Flour i ounce 

1 " " " Soft Butter i 

3 " Sweet Chocolate, grated i " 

2 teaspoons (heaping) Flour, .Sugar or Meal eqaial i heaping tablespoon 

LIQUIDS 

I pint contains 16 fluid ounces (4 gills) 

1 teacupful equals 8 fluid ounces (2 gills) 

4 teaspoonfuls equal i tablespoonful 

2 teaspoonfuls equal i dessertspoonful 

4 teacupfuls equal i quart 

A common sized tumbler holds about one-half pint 



1849 LARGEST FIRE INSURANCE CO. [ QQQ 

Chartered by the State of Massachusetts 
Incorporated 1849 charter perpetual 



Springfield 



Fire and Marine 
Insurance Co. 



OF SPRINGFIELD, MASS. 

Annual Statement, January 1st, 1900 
CASH CAPITAL = 1,500,000 DOLLARS 

ASSETS 

Cash on hand, in Banks and Cash Items $ 135,541 49 

Cash in hands of Agents and in course of Trans- 
mission 362,994 63 

Rents and Accrued Interest 48,142 94 

Real Estate Unincumbered 126,400 00 

Loans on Bond and Mortgage (first lien) 647,800 00 

Loans on Collateral Security 39, 525 00 

Bank Stocks Market Value 589,155 00 

Railroad Stocks '* " 2,391,630 00 

Railroad Bonds " " 379. 500 00 

United States Bonds " " 93,750 00 

Miscellaneous Bonds " " 92,500 00 

Total Assets $4,906,939 06 

LIABILITIES 

Capital Stock $1,500,000 00 

Reserve for Re-insurance 1,476,584 27 

Reserve for all unsettled Claims 245,262 45 

Net Surplus 1,685,092 34 

Losses paid since organization 26,316,489 49 



A. W. DAMON, Presideut. CHAS. E. GALACAR, Vice-Pres. F. H. WILLIAMS, Tues 
SANFORD J. HALL, Secretary. W. J. MACKAY, Asst. Sec'y. 



Pacific Coast Department, San Francisco, Cal. 
GEO. D. DORNIN, Manager GEO. W. DORNIN, Asst. Manager 



