®SS^!S«''l!»''''i:'^-*; '■Sl"K-''.: ■'■■ vvv.-,-- ^-t ^., ...■ . ,..-5 , .. 



<f^f'i;s.■'';r^#■;1S^l^i;^^f 




CORNELL UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 




924 089 480 226 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924089480226 



/ Go A' Marketing 



I Go A- 




By 
HENRIETTA SOWLE 

("HENRIETTE") 




BOSTON ■ LITTLE, BROWN 
AND COMPANY • MDCCCC 



Copyright, igoo, by Little, 
Brown, and Company. 



UNIVERSITY PRESS • JOHN WILSON 
AND SON • CAMBRIDGE, u. 9. il. 



TO 
MR. EDWARD H. CLEMENT 



Author^s Note 



BEFORE dipping into this book very 
far, reader (pray note that I cozen you 
with neither "gentle" nor "dear"), 
allow me to suggest that you familiarize your- 
self with the spirit of Emerson, who has al- 
lowed that the truly consistent person changes 
his mind whenever occasion offers. Then you 
will be in a frame of mind to acknowledge 
that I have but exercised my privilege if you 
chance upon passages that seem to put me in 
a self-contradictory position. I hold to one 
opinion till new or increased light shows me 
I would do well to change, no longer. 

Is it necessary, I wonder, to say that this 
compilation of persiflage and cookery is not 
intended to be the whole culinary library of 
any housekeeper ? In case it may be believed 
that I have any such inflated idea of its value. 



viii AUTHOR'S NOTE 



let me say at once that any housekeeper who 
secures this book, by buying or by borrowing, 
will want just as many of the old-line " cook- 
books " at hand as if she had never heard of 
it. Its mission is a supplementary one. 
It is for those dark and dreary days when the 
housekeeper "wants something good," but can- 
not say what. It suggests. Therein is all of 
beauty and use, for "beauty is truth, truth 
beauty, that is all ye know and all ye need 
to know." 

Furthermore, it is for the housekeeper who 
knows by experience, or intuition, how to 
lay a fire, and how to broil a steak. With 
kindergarten methods it does not deal — it 
rather takes it for granted that it will fall into 
the hands of those who have been graduated 
from kindergarten cookery. Neither does it 
attempt to set forth the duties of butlers or of 
housemaids. It goes on the principle rather 
that the housekeeper who supports these fac- 
totums knows what their duties should be. 



AUTHOR'S NOTE ix 

And is there any necessity for those who can- 
not attain to such appointments burdening 
their minds with knowledge never to be used ? 
Think on all these things omitted when you 
are getting inspiration from this slender 
source, and be thankful that I have shown 
so much consideration for you. 

" Read my little fable : 

He that runs may read. 
Most can raise the flowers now. 
For all have got the seed." 



/ Go A 'Marketing 



JANUARY 

" Still Beauty must be stealing hearts. 
And kna'very stealing purses ; 
Still cooks must live by making tarts 
And ivits by making 'verses." 



SOME fine day, perchance, I shall to mar- 
ket go and find there what all house- 
keepers are "a-sighin' and a-cryin' for" 
— namely a new edible ; and be it fish, flesh, 
or fowl, I shall, with all haste, make you ac- 
quainted with its nature, and with the name 
of the market-man who introduces the boon ; 
and methinks that nothing short of canoniza- 
tion should reward the man, or woman, who 
finds " something new under the sun." 

But till that blessed day of discovery really 
arrives I must be content with telling you of 
ways that may be new and tricks that are 
worth trying for the serving of viands which 
have constituted human nature's daily food 
since the world began. Unless, however, I 
can bring to your minds by my suggestions a 
state of contentment which will enable you to 
await that hour of revealment with patience 



I GO A-MARKETING 



almost amounting to indifference, my duty is 
but half done. 
Sausages So here goes for a beginning. Don't you 

ever feel quite dissatisfied with the ordinary, 
yes and the extraordinary, sausages of com- 
merce ? Of course you do. No need to ask. 
They are flat, there's no gainsaying it. But 
it's the easiest thing in the world to have 
home-made sausages seasoned to a point that 
will make them things of gastronomical joy. 
There must be equal quantities of lean and 
fat fresh pork finely minced ; then to a pound 
of this meat add one-quarter of an ounce of 
salt, more or less, one-eighth of an ounce of 
good business-like pepper, more or less, and 
powdered sage ad lib. The use of season- 
ing, you see, is not bound by any hard and 
fast rules; in cases of this kind a due regard 
must be shown the whims and fancies of the 
palates to be pleased. Once you have added 
the proper amount of seasoning, add enough 
well beaten egg to allow of the mixture being 
moulded to any desired shape, and fried to 
a nice brown. And there you have a dish 
fit to put before a king. If the simplicity 
and homeliness of it somewhat upsets your 
equilibrium, why call it saucisses grillees; 



I GO A-MARKETING 



they '11 taste just as well. They can be served 
either upon rounds of toasted bread or upon 
a foundation of cold boiled potatoes which 
have been diced and heated in cream. 

If you are having them for luncheon then 
serve them on toast, but with the addition of 
a tomato puree. No need to tell how to make 
that ; it 's an old story. 

Another old story, altogetheftoo old, is the Broiled Pork 
way most housekeepers have of frying pork pj°^^„f 
chops. They should never be fried. The Sauce 
only respectable way is to broil them decently 
and in order over a hot bed of coals. In that 
way what little juice they contain will be re- 
tained. But even then they will be so dry 
that you must supplement them with some- 
thing, — say a sauce made of half a pint of 
good clear stock, highly seasoned, and having 
in it a tablespoonfiil of chopped pickled pep- 
pers and some sliced gherkins, with the juice 
of a lemon added. 

Or, you can serve with them apple cro- Apple 
quettes, made by stewing the apples in a little ™'"^ 
butter, with a tiny bit of sugar; when quite 
cold, with the aid of a few bread-crumbs, shape 
the apple into croquettes, roll them in crumbs 
and beaten egg and fry. Arrange the cro- 



I GO A-MARKETING 



quettes, which must be not more than an inch 
in diameter, with the chops upon a platter 
in any fanciful way that suggests itself to you, 
and the condition of the platter at the end of 
the meal will tell you whether or not the ex- 
periment was worth the trying. 
Roasted Pork These croquettes will win favor for them- 
with Onion selves if you will try serving them some time 
with a loin of fresh pork, roasted. You will 
want to serve with them only the simplest kind 
of clear gravy. But you may prefer to serve 
the roasted loin of pork on steamed rice gar- 
nished with button onions, which have been 
boiled till fairly tender and then fried in butter 
to a light brown. If this is your preference, 
make a sauce by frying in two gills of oil, 
half a pound of minced onion, a pinch of pars- 
ley leaves, a crushed clove of garlic and a bay 
leaf, with salt and' pepper; dilute with a pint 
of good stock, preferably white ; strain and 
finish by adding the juice of a lemon and an 
ounce of fresh butter. By the way, when 
fresh pork is to be roasted, it is an excellent 
plan to rub salt well into it about twenty-four 
hours before cooking. If you slice and serve 
it cold you will readily see the wisdom of giv- 



I GO A-MARKETING 



ing the salt a chance to work its way through 
and season the whole loin. 

When a ham is to be roasted, and small "oasted 
hams do make excellent roasts, a ham of about 
five pounds' weight should be skinned and 
boiled in enough water to cover it; in this 
water you will want to put, just for variety's 
sake, a carrot, an onion, three bay-leaves, three 
cloves, one clove of garlic, and six pepper- 
corns. Boil very gently for about one hour ; 
then remove from the fire, drain it well, and 
coat it with a paste of oil and flour. Be sure 
that it is well covered with the paste to pre- 
vent the escape of the juice, put into the oven 
and roast for about two hours. 

Serve it with a sauce made of a sufficient Cider Sauce 
quantity of the stock, to which you have 
added half its amount of cider, and there you 
behold what is commonly known as cham- 
pagne sauce. But, bless you, it 's very doubt- 
ful if champagne is often used, as after it is 
heated it would be a sensitive palate indeed 
that could tell whether champagne or cider 
were employed. 

Just a hint right here of what may be done 
with bits of cold ham, for we may never be 
on this subject again. Have some thin slices 



I GO A-MARKETING 



of toasted white bread, spread well with butter 
and a trifle of mustard, then equal parts of 
grated cheese and minced ham, and some cay- 
enne pepper. Send to the oven for a few 
minutes, or until the cheese is dissolved, and 
serve immediately. Say what you will, it is a 
delectable dish, this ham toast, and whether 
you allow for it in a prearranged luncheon or 
whether it is concocted on the impulse of the 
moment, when the necessity suddenly arises 
for a dish of the kind, trust me, whoever par- 
takes of it will vow that it " relishes of wit 
and invention." 
Broiled Perhaps this batch of suggestions would be 
Pigs' Feet incomplete with no reference in it to the cook- 
ing of pigs' feet, and yet there 's very little 
variety in the methods of preparing them. 
The simplest is the best, it seems to me, and 
that is dipping them in melted butter, then in 
bread-crumbs, and broiling over a moderate 
fire. A piquant sauce is by long odds the 
sauce par excellence to be served with them. 
Some chefs de cuisine prepare them elabo- 
rately with truffles, to my mind, however, 
there's an incongruity in a combination of 
pork and truffles. But of course it 's only a 
matter of taste, and it is more than possible 



I GO A-MARKETING 



that there will be some who read this and de- 
plore my poor taste in devoting so much space 
to ways and means of cooking pork. 

Well, to such I offer the suggestion that 
they call it a chapter on porcine potentials, 
and pass on. 



By all means let us be economical — truly 
economical. But let us never make the griev- 
ous but common mistake of thinking that the 
buying of cheap, downright cheap food is econ- 
omy. To commit such an error in judgment 
is to lay the cornerstone of more than one 
kind of unhappiness. But you know that, too. 
And with so many inexpensive viands as there 
are to be had, susceptible as they are of so 
many ways of serving, one can, with the exer- 
cise of a little juc^ment in such matters, have 
the appearance of "living high" when in 
reality one is laying up money out of the 
weekly table allowance, if one has such an in- 
stitution in one's family. For myself, I have 
a great respect for a housekeeper who keeps 
within her allowance week in and week out, 
year after year. But for the one who cuts 
loose occasionally from all allowance limits 



8 I GO A-MARKETING 

S 

when there is a " good thing up " I have the 
sincerest admiration and sympathy. It is 
with such a one that I always feel tempted to 
outstay my welcome if I get the shadow of a 
chance to be so ill bred. Such an ignoring 
of trammels of the financial sort is an indica- 
tion of truancy in other matters now and 
then that rather appeals to me, to be very 
honest about it. But I don't recommend it 
to you or to any one. Perhaps it has n't a 
place here, but since it is written it shall 
stand, labelled En parenthese. 

And we will talk of codfish — fresh codfish. 
This is a species of the gadus family that is 
eligible for duty in a family of any class — 
high, low, or middle. It may follow the soup 
at an unlimited course dinner and not be out 
of its element or it may form the piece de 
r'esistance, or in fact the only piece of any 
kind at a dinner of another sort and still be 
quite at home. 

fresh Now let us get to business. Suppose that 
Codfish, , ° . • 1 ^^ , . 

Delmonico ^ome day you have a pipmg hot oven that is 

Style as Idle as you would like to be and that you 

have also a fresh codfish in the house split 

with the backbone removed for broiling. 

Let me suggest that you dry it well, put it in 



I GO A-MARKETING 



a buttered baking pan, skin side down, coat it 
with melted butter, sprinkle it with salt, pep- 
per, lemon juice, chopped parsley and chopped 
onion. Then bestrew it with bread crumbs 
moistened in melted butter and set into the 
oven to brown. Get it out as gracefully as 
possible when it is done, flip a little melted 
butter and lemon juice over it and serve. 
Or, if you can't break away from tradition 
and have sworn to have a broiled fish broiled 
then I am sure that you do keep within your 
allowance for the table and will treat the fish 
this way : You will dry it well with a cloth, 
then brush it with melted butter, sprinkle salt 
and a little pepper, put it on the buttered 
bars of the broiler, and let the fire do the rest. 
Then after it is dished, sprinkle it with per- Broiled Fresh 
haps a few capers, surround it with broiled 
thin slices of bacon, and be on the alert to 
catch the first expression that flits over the 
face of the one who furnishes you with the 
aforesaid table allowance to see if all is well 
with the fish and consequently with you. 
Am I right? 

But I would be willing to wager the price Baked Fresh 
of a whole "catch" of codfish that I can tell ^'"'■''** 
you of a bran new way to bake one. Read 



lo I GO A-MARKETING 

and see for yourself. Have the size thai 
seems to find most favor in your family and 
fill it with a forcemeat made by mincing tc 
paste a pound of raw codfish. Add to il 
half a pint of cream that has been just boiled 
that 's all, and thickened with two eggs, 
Season with salt, a chopped onion — chopped 
so finely that it is of a paste consistency and 
fill the fish with the mixture. For peppei 
let me suggest that you use paprika in prefer- 
ence to any other brand. Cook till the fish 
is done and serve with any rich sauce thai 
appeals to you. 

Any or all of the foregoing recipes may bs 
applied to haddock, as you probably suspecl 
— if you know anything at all about fish. 



You don't know, you housekeepers ol 
America what a jolly good reputation you 've 
got to Hve up to unless you happen to hav£ 
read G. W. Steevens's clever book, "The 
Land of the Dollar," in which he says of oui 
national breakfasts: "First you have fruit — 
wonderful pears that look like green stones 
and taste like the Tree of Life. Then mush 
so they call oatmeal porridge, or wheatmea 



I GO A-MARKETING n 

porridge or hominy porridge, a noble food 
with the nectarous American cream. Then 
fishes and meats, sausages, and bacon and eggs. 
Then strange farinaceous foods which you mar- 
vel to find yourself swallowing with avid gust 
— graham bread, soda biscuits, buckwheat or 
griddle cakes with butter and maple treacle. 
It is magnificent; but it is indigestion. All 
the same, I look forward to the day when 
America shall produce an invention that will 
let me go across the Atlantic every morning 
for breakfast. I shall take a season ticket." 

Now let my humble pen chip in two or 
three things that shall help you to live up to 
this estimate of you. 

Suppose you are having a dish of fried Sweet Corn 
eggs after a manner described later on in this '^"'"^ 
book. Go still further, and see fit to have 
some croquettes also. Do you know just 
what they should be? If in doubt let them 
be of canned sweet corn. Mix with half a 
can of the corn two-thirds of its quantity of 
mashed potatoes, salt and a good generous bit 
of melted butter. Then form into croquettes, 
dip in beaten egg and crumbs and fry to a 
fine color in hot fat. 

Or, as second choice, you might like hash 



12 I GO A-MARKETING 

Sublimated instead of the eggs fried. Now, look here ; 
you know me well enough by this time, I 
hope, to believe that when I suggest hash it is 
none of the commonplace minces that you 
shun at the table of your very best friend. 
Of what I have to say in the line of hash you 
won't be overdoing the thing if you refer to 
it for evermore as a " sublimated hash." See 
for yourself: Chop an onion and fry it in a 
good bit of butter till it is tender and likewise 
brown. Then put into the butter two cup- 
fuls of diced cold mutton, diced not chopped, 
and one cupfiil of diced cold boiled potatoes. 
Pepper and salt to your fancy. Then put in 
four tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce and have 
ready some chopped parsley for sprinkling 
over the dish when it is served. 

Rice Muffins You might for a flyer try rice muffins 
with this hash. Have a cup of flour and 
sifted through it two heaping teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. Add to it a tablespoonful 
of sugar, a saltspoonful of salt, and pass 
this through a sieve. Have three eggs well 
beaten in a cup of milk with half a cup of 
melted butter and stir into the flour. When 
it is perfectly smooth add to it two cupfuls of 
cold boiled or steamed rice. Turn into 



I GO A-MARKETING 13 

small pans and bake in a hot oven. By grat- 
ing in a little nutmeg to these muffins you 
will have a delicious dish for luncheon. 

NoWj our friend Steevens spoke of griddle Rhode island 
cakes and buckwheat cakes. Of these you •^o*""i'««''« 
know all that is necessary for any housekeeper 
to know. But I '11 wager a good sum that 
Rhode Island meal is an unknown quantity 
to you. Make its acquaintance then as soon 
as possible and set about having Rhode Island 
johnnycakes often. You will want nothing 
but the meal, some milk and salt. Have 
them considerably thinner than ordinary flour 
griddle cakes and fry in a little fat on a hot 
griddle so that the edges are crisp and tooth- 
some. If you want to bake them have a cup 
of meal to a cup and one-half of milk with 
a pinch of salt, and bake in gem pans till 
brown. Instead of having butter with either 
the fried or baked specimens of this johnny- 
cake try some of our " nectarous cream." Is 
it a go ? 



Now and then, throughout this book, the 
directions for making a salad are brought in 
incidentally to the main topic of discourse. 



14 I GO A-MARKETING 

Nowhere are they treated as the piece de re- 
sistance, so to speak, of a chapter. And here 
are not many — only a few that go especially 
well in cold weather, when to have any variety 
at all in salads incurs a considerable outlay of 
rumination. Just a little inventive faculty and 
a firm purpose to have your table superior, 
even in details, to that of your dearest enemy, 
and you can with materials on hand in January 
have salads that give the eternal chicken and 
lobster with mayonnaise the go-by, — though, 
I fear me, the snubbing in the near future 
will come from the lobster itself. But that 's 
not to be discussed at just this minute. 
Red Cabbage Before this you have probably made red 
cabbage salad with a French dressing and 
with a spread of mayonnaise over it, so that 
you think you know it all, but have you tried 
adding to it some celery ? This is the way it 
is done. All the coarse outside leaves of the 
cabbage are removed and the inside is finely 
shredded. Then the best stalks of a head of 
celery are cut into inch pieces and put into 
the salad bowl, a layer of celery, then one of 
the cabbage, and so on, heaping a bit in the 
centre. Garnish with the fresh green leaves 
of the celery; pour a dressing, made of a 



Salad 



I GO A-MARKETING 15 

beaten egg, three tablespoonfuls of oil, two of 
vinegar, a saltspoon of salt, a dash of cay- 
enne, and a suspicion of mustard, over all, 
and let stand for half an hour in a cool place 
before serving. For luncheon, when you are 
having croquettes of left-over ham bits, or of 
cold tongue scraps, this goes very near to 
being what would tempt any sane person to 
ask for a second helping. 

Then there is a way to make an onion salad, Spanish 
that sets you to wondering why you never "'"" 
heard of it before. Have the Spanish onions, 
and soak them four or five hours, after peel- 
ing, in cold water, changing the water every 
hour, or even oftener, if your time is n't too 
precious. Then slice and chop them, but 
not to the mussy stage. Freeze them, not 
too hard, but so they will be crisp and cold. 
Meanwhile, prepare a dressing of two-thirds 
oil to one-third vinegar, with salt and pep- 
per to taste, and pour over them. Serve 
immediately. But don't forget the garnish, 
which naturally suggests itself — parsley, to 
be sure, and plenty of it. With this salad? 
Well, we will suppose it is making its debut 
in your household at an after-theatre snack. 
So have with it toasted water crackers, a bit 



i6 I GO A-MARKETING 



of Swiss cheese, a smoked herring or two. 
And beer, of course. 
Sardine Now, don't skip what is going down here 
^'^"'' about a sardine salad — you will miss it if you 
do. I know you will say you would n't fancy 
the oil in which they are preserved in a salad, 
and I can see that rather superior curl your 
lip takes on as you say it. But soak them for 
an hour in vinegar, then remove the skin from 
them and arrange in a circle on your salad 
dish. In the centre heap pitted and quar- 
tered olives. Make a dressing of the strained 
juice of a lemon mixed with a tablespoonful 
of olive oil, a bit of salt and of paprika, and 
over all a sprinkling of capers. Then, take 
a taste of it when your turn comes, and be 
sorry you were inclined to pass by it. 
Brussels Now and then, you know, we do have a 
''sTad ^^^ Brussels sprouts left over from the day 
before's dinner, and at the price usually asked 
we couldn't throw them away, and yet there 
weren't enough to pay for reheating. So, in 
order to be forehanded, and also to have 
the "makings" of a delicious salad in the 
house, get double the quantity you usually 
have the next time you are getting them, and 
be glad for every one that is left over, for the 



I GO A-MARKETING 17 

next day you will sprinkle a few drops of 
lemon juice over them, coat them with a 
mayonnaise, sprinkle with capers and sliced 
olives, and serve very cold. At a simple little 
dinner, where you are having " left-overs " 
daintily fixed up, this salad works in beau- 
tifully, or if you are giving a dinner that is as 
elaborate as anything you ever turn out, count 
on this salad to be one of the features of your 
dinner, 

A delicious offering to put before your Oyster Salad 
household some night is a salad of oysters. 
Have a quart of them, say, drain and wipe 
them well from their own liquor. Boil a cup 
of vinegar, and season it while boiling with 
salt and white pepper. Pour it over the oy- 
sters, and let them stand for two hours or so. 
Then drain them pretty dry, and lay on a bed 
of chopped celery in the salad bowl. If the 
oysters are very large cut in halves or quar- 
ters. Have a layer of chopped celery on top 
of the oysters, and coat thickly with mayon- 
naise. Be sure, however, that the oysters are 
perfectly cold before adding to the celery. 
Garnish with a few oyster crabs, pickled at 
the same time the oysters were pickled, and 
some sliced olives. To be very, very extrava- 



i8 I GO A-MARKETING 

gant in making this salad, if you so want to 
be for the purpose of impressing some one, 
add to it a few sliced truffles that have been 
soaked in white wine for an hour or two. 
Nut Salad For some occasions, at this season of the 
year, a nut salad just fills the bill as nothing 
else can. Choose almost any kind of nuts, 
but preferably let them be mainly English 
walnuts. Have them in halves, or in quar- 
ters, and squeeze lemon juice over them fifteen 
minutes before dressing. Then add to them 
half their quantity of quartered olives, some 
very tender little celery leaves, and a thin 
mask of mayonnaise. Really, when you have 
turned out this salad, for a party supper, say, 
you need give yourselves very little uneasiness 
as to how the other viands will set with your 
guests. Such a salad is calculated to redeem 
a good many faults in other directions. 
Fruit Salad Just a word about a sweet salad, and this 
screed is ended. Oranges. It shall be of 
oranges — big, luscious, juicy, seedless oranges, 
that are at their height for the next two months 
or more. These you slice, after peeling, as 
you would an apple. Put a layer of them in 
a bowl, sprinkle with powdered sugar and a 
few drops of orange curacoa. Then another 



I GO A-MARKETING 19 

layer of oranges, another of sugar, another 
fall of cura9oa, and so on till the dish is full. 
Then, if there are half a dozen oranges used, 
pour over them about half a gill of brandy, 
either the plain brandy or apricot brandy. 
The latter, I find, is possessed of a mysterious 
flavor that, when added to an orange salad, 
just sets people to wondering why it is they 
have to go away from home to find such 
delights. 



FEBRUARY 

" To sing the same tune, as the saying is, is 
in everything cloying and offensive; but men 
are generally pleased ivith 'variety." 



o 



NCE upon a time, one of the resource- 
less sort of housekeepers said to me 
that she was never quite so stumped 
as when she felt the economical burden laid 
upon her to utilize lamb or mutton "left- 
overs." Now, this has been quite the oppo- 
site of my experience. In fact, I wouldn't 
acknowledge that I found cold lamb a facer, 
anyway. 
Roast Lamb Suppose we talk of a leg of lamb roasted in 

""" sZ7e *^^® ^^y • ^^^ ^°"^ neatly removed, the cavity 
filled with a mushroom stuffing, then roasted 
in a hot oven and served with caper sauce 
and currant jelly. To be sure I know you 
would as soon have pledged yourself to break 
one of the commandments, as to serve caper 
sauce with roasted lamb, if I had not tempted 
you. But you will do it, now that the sug- 
gestion has entered your consciousness of gas- 
tronomical beauties. 

Or, if, in the first blush, it does n't appeal 



I GO A-MARKETING 21 



to you, there 's this way of roasting lamb that Roast Lamb 

with ■ 
PurSe 



I dare say is new to you. First, make an ""** ^""'" 



onion puree, by mincing one quart of onions 
and boiling them till tender. Drain very dry, 
put them in a saucepan with two ounces of 
butter; season with salt and pepper; let them 
simmer for ten or fifteen minutes, but don't 
let them brown. Then add to them half a 
pint of cream, and press all through a sieve, 
when serving as sauce. 

Can you stand another novelty ? It 's this. 
Put the lamb in the roasting-pan, and just a Roast Lamb 
half hour before you think it is to be done. Macaroni 
take it out and cover the bottom of the pan 
with boiled macaroni. Lay the lamb on this, 
and prick it all over that the juice may run 
over the macaroni. Moisten the macaroni 
with a little stock, too, if it threatens to get 
too dry or too brown. When the lamb is 
roasted take it out, heap the macaroni on a 
dish, pour a little tomato sauce over it, sprin- 
kle with Parmesan and send to table. Have 
a little tomato, or any other sauce that pleases 
you, with the lamb, if you feel that you must 
have a sauce. 

Now, for the second day — no, the third 
day, rather. Skip a day before dishing a re- 



22 I GO A-MARKETING 

Broiled Lamb heating of the lamb. Then get some good 
Slices g]jj.gg from the joint, even as to size and thick- 
ness, and lay them for an hour in a dressing 
of two tablespoonfuls of oil, one of Tarragon 
vinegar, with salt and pepper. Take them 
out of the dressing, dip in bread crumbs, broil 
over a hot fire, and serve with a tartar sauce, 
or, if you like, with some of the onion puree, 
if any was left. 
Fried Lamb ^^ 7°" ^^^^ chutney, and of course you do, 
with have some neat slices of cold lamb spread 
Chutney ^^^^ ^j^j^ palate-tickler, roll each slice up, coat 
with crumbs, and fry in boiling fat till brown. 
Skewer the rolled slices to keep them in shape. 
When serving, sprinkle with a few drops of 
lemon juice. It will be a question with you, 
probably, which of these two ways of reheat- 
ing is better. But that 's the sort of recipes 
with which to load your intelligence, so don't 
complain. 
Lamb Slices Can you digest another warmed-over dish 
with Onions ^f i^mb ? This time have the slices thick 

and mash- i i i • 

rooms rather than thm, and put them in a stewpan 
with enough sherry wine to cover them. Cover 
closely, and let heat slowly while you are toss- 
ing together, in a little butter, some minced 
boiled onion and button mushrooms. Color 



I GO A-MARKETING 23 

slightly, and moisten with a little rich stock. 
Take up the slices of lamb, arrange in a circle 
on a dish, fill the centre with the onions and 
mushrooms, pour the wine over all, and take 
the trick. It 's yours. In case you don't 
like as much wine as is required to cover the 
lamb, use half wine and half water, and the 
juice of a lemon. 

If you want to try the reheating of the f <""* *'"'^* 
lamb in the chafing dish, have it sliced as '^^^ 
neatly as possible, and make ready in the chaf- 
ing dish a sauce of one wineglass of port wine, 
half a pint of good stock, thickened, a tea- 
spoonful of walnut ketchup, the same of 
French mustard, and a pinch of salt. When 
this is hot put in the lamb, and serve as soon 
as heated through. 

If with any of the foregoing recipes you 
think you would fancy a border of rice, have 
it, by all means. But have plenty of butter 
in the water in which the rice is boiled ; or if 
it is steamed, have it moistened well with but- 
ter just the same. 

You might fancy this rice border with lamb Lamb 
croquettes. These, you know, are made by Croquettes 
having the lamb chopped finely, and added to 
it half its quantity of chopped mushrooms. 



24 I GO A-MARKETING 

Moisten with a little tomato sauce, shape and 
fry. 
Lamb Salad Surely you will not take offence if I assume, 
at this stage of the game, that you are edu- 
cated up to a point where you can appreciate 
the delights that centre in a lamb salad. You 
dice the lamb, having it free of all fat and sinew. 
Then put a layer of it in the bottom of the 
salad bowl. Have a dressing of oil, vinegar, 
pepper, and salt, with a bit of French mus- 
tard in it, at hand, and with this sprinkle the 
lamb. Bestrew it, too, with a chopped anchovy 
or two, or more, if you are fond of anchovies. 
Then put in a layer of cold boiled potatoes, 
diced — more dressing; another stratum of 
lamb, and so on till the dish is full, having it 
mound-shaped. Garnish with sliced gherkins 
and capers, and let it go at that. 



I would that fewer nursery rhymers had 
taken trips to market for their text when their 
pens took to turning out jingles; for good- 
ness knows that what with " To market, to 
market to buy a fat pig," and " To market, 
to market, all on a market day," keeping up 
a continuous jig-like theme in my mind, to 



I GO A-MARKETING 25 

say nothing of the insistent interruptions by 
the " little pig that went to market " I am 
well-nigh distracted when I try to get dry-as- 
dust facts from the marketman anent common- 
place eatables. To be sure, if I go in search 
of frogs' legs, say, and the story of the frog 
who went a-wooing recurs to my mind three 
or four times in a minute, it seems quite ap- 
propriate and does n't interfere in the least 
with my driving' a pretty sharp bargain with 
the fish-dealer. But, so far as I know, no 
poet or writer of assonance has taken it into 
his head to sing a song of livers, kidneys, and 
such like edibles of which I am telling you 
herein, and no wonder, you may say, if I don't 
succeed in making my story fairly interesting, 
as well as appetizing — though from the na- 
ture of it if it is one it must be the other. 

Everybody knows, I fancy, that when one Kidneys en 
has cut off the skin of some lambs' kidneys, ^'■<"'*e"e 
and then cut the kidneys into quarter-inch- 
thick slices, seasoned them with salt and pep- 
per, dipped them in oil, and then threaded 
them on skewers with alternating slices of 
bacon a brochette of kidneys is well under 
way. To complete the operation they are 
dipped into oil, then into bread-crumbs and 



26 I GO A-MARKETING 

broiled over a slow fire. In serving there's 
no reason in the world why one should not 
indulge one's fancy for any simple sauce that 
will help the kidneys to tickle one's palate. 
Good as this dish is, I must confess I like 
it better when chickens' livers are substi- 
tuted for the kidneys. By the way, do you 
know that every up-to-date marketman has 
them all skewered, and all that you have to 
do is to add the seasoning and see to the 
broiling ? 
Fried Another really delightful way of serving 
V^A* ""* ^^'^bs' kidneys is to prepare in a frying-pan a 
tablespoonful of chopped onions, a small 
chopped shallot, a clove of garlic and as many 
fresh mushrooms as you feel like buying, with 
salt and pepper to taste, and an ounce or so 
of butter ; don't let the vegetables color at all, 
and perhaps the best way to avoid this is to 
add a gill or so of any kind of wine and the 
same of cream. Let this sauce mull a while 
on the back of the range, while you broil the 
number of kidneys desired, after having 
skinned and split each one in two lengthwise. 
Dish and pour over them the sauce, removing 
from it the garlic. If you Ve never heard 
of this way for preparing kidneys, it seems 



I GO A-MARKETING 27 

to me that you should be very grateful to me 
for calling your attention to it. 

And may your gratitude be re-enforced 
after you have tried cooking veal kidneys in ^'"ce'' 
this fashion: Mince three very small ones, 
after removing all the fat and fibrous parts, 
and fry them in butter over a hot fire. Don't 
let them get wizzled up, but just done to a 
turn, then take from the frying-pan and add 
to the butter in which they were fried some 
tomato sauce highly seasoned, half a can of 
mushrooms, some lemon juice, and chopped 
parsley ; pour over the kidneys and even if 
you serve them in just this manner they will 
prove a great success ; but should you wish to 
make it a dish to linger in one's memory, then 
garnish it with macaroni croquettes. Ever 
make them ? Well, boil a pound of macaroni Macaroni 
in salted water for fifteen minutes. Then drain '^'■''^"ettes 
and cut it into quarter-inch lengths ; put back 
into the saucepan with a little grated cheese, a 
little salt, cayenne pepper and a gill of cream. 
Let it get perfectly cold, then mould into 
croquettes, either cylinder-shaped or any other 
form, only have them very small; dip in egg 
and bread-crumbs and fry a pretty brown. 



28 I GO A-MARKETING 

These macaroni croquettes, by the way, 
make a suitable garnish for any number of 
dishes ; try them with veal cutlets some time, 
or with thin, dainty slices of ham broiled for 
luncheon, and you '11 get more than your 
labor for your pains. 
Fried Calf's If you are thinking to have liver, then my 
'■'"^'' advice to you is to get if possible only that 
of a calf. To buy that of an older "beef 
critter" is so often a waste of time and 
money that it 's just as well to forego buying 
it altogether — it is so apt to have too much 
flavor, so to speak, or be tough or stringy, 
and wholly unsatisfactory. But get a calf's 
liver, and something of a treat is in store for 
you, whether you fry it with bacon or pre- 
pare it in this way : Cut up finely three or 
four good-sized white onions and fry them in 
butter till of a golden brown. Drain the 
butter off and cover the onions with white 
stock ; let cook for half an hour, then moistenl 
with more stock and season with pepper, salt, 
chopped parsley, and just a suspicion of lemon 
juice. Fry the slices of liver, which should 
not be over half an inch in thickness, in 
enough butter to keep them from harden- 
ing ; drain off the butter and add the above 



I GO A-MARKETING 29 

sauce ; let it boil up once, then serve, and 
garnish with slices of lemon. Perhaps this is 
a bit heavy for a breakfast dish — to my 
mind it is decidedly so — while for luncheon, 
where one is having a salad of watercress, or 
for an entree at dinner it seems to be quite 
in its rightful place. 

If the liver is to be served for breakfast, 
then it is a good idea to roll the slices in a 
little flour, sprinkle melted butter over them 
and broil over the coals, squeezing just enough 
lemon juice and sprinkling just enough 
chopped parsley over them to make them 
grateful to the taste and eye when served. 

But why don't you try to invent a sauce Sauce for 
for calfs liver? Fry it in plenty of butter. Calf a Liver 
then add to the butter, when the liver is re- 
moved, anything that your palate suggests or 
which your common sense approves. For 
instance, put in a few tiny slices of gherkin, 
a handful of mushrooms, a soupcon of tomato 
sauce, a few capers, a little lemon juice, 
chopped chives or chevrll, chopped shallot or 
any herb or condiment that you may have in 
the house. Of course you don't want to use 
all of these articles, but try a combination of 
any two or three or more of them, with the 



30 I GO A-MARKETING 

addition of a little stock and — who knows ? 
— you may invent a sauce that will make you 
as famous as was Bechamel, Conde or Caretne. 
Success be with you ! 



" Do be kind enough some of these times 
when you are scribbling about the good things 
at market to bear in mind that not every one 
is hale and hearty and blessed with digestive 
organs that could stand a diet of shingle nails. 
Give a thought to the poor unfortunates that 
are obliged to think twice before gratifying 
their appetites once." Thus wailed one of the 
said " poor unfortunates " once upon a time, 
and as a result of the complaint I have since 
been " holding them in thought " to a consid- 
erable extent, with a view to making the ma- 
terial aspect of a period of invalidism and 
convalescence a bit the brighter. 

Of course we all know that the list of eata- 
bles allowed an invalid or a convalescent is of 
necessity a rather short one ; but there is an 
infinite number of ways for varying the list, 
if one will use a little judgment and good 
taste in preparing the dishes. We have all 
had experience in seeing a sick person make 



I GO A-MARKETING 31 

a wry face at the mention of gruel or por- 
ridge, and precious little we blamed him for 
it, to tell the truth. But the whole condi- 
tion of affairs may be changed by preparing 
it in this way: Have a pint of good clear 
chicken broth, free from fat and not too c^,g^g„ 
strong ; boil it, and into it shake slowly a cup Broth with 
of oatmeal or wheaten grits ; let it cook for ^"*'"^"' 
half an hour or so, pass it through a wire sieve, 
and add to it a little more broth if that is 
necessary to make it fit to be sipped easily 
from a cup without using a spoon. Take it 
to the sick-room with the remark, " I have 
brought you a little puree of oatmeal," and 
my word for it you will not see a drop left in 
the cup. 

And a puree of barley will be quite as Puree of 
acceptable. Soak the barley over night, .and ^<^'^y 
the next morning cover it with chicken broth ; 
boil until the barley bursts, adding broth from 
time to time as it cooks away ; when the broth 
begins to thicken, which will be at the end of 
about three hours' time, strain it through a 
very fine sieve. Serve it in a cup ; and if you 
dare do such a thing, add a tiny bit of butter 
to it. It makes it a deal more palatable, and 
I don't believe it will harm the patient ; but 



32 I GO A-MARKETING 

it's quite possible the physician in charge 
may think otherwise. 
Beef Tea There are ways and ways for making beef 
tea ; but the best of all ways, it seems to me, 
is to have round steak about one inch in 
thickness, broil it for two minutes on each side 
over a brisk fire, cut it up into inch squares, 
cover it with cold water, and let it steep, not 
boil, for two hours. Serve it in a cup, and 
salt when serving. You and the ailing one 
will find, I think, that the broiling of the 
steak gives the tea a flavor that makes it " hit 
the spot " — a consummation devoutly to be 
wished when one is catering for an invalid. 

Cream Soup Cream soups make a pleasing change after 
plain broths or teas. Take any white stock 
that is rich, free from fat and well seasoned. 
Put into a saucepan half a pint of the stock 
and the same quantity of cream. When it 
comes to a boil add one tablespoonfiil of flour 
thoroughly moistened with cold milk, and let 
it boil at once. Serve with it finger-pieces of 
thin buttered toast. 

Sabayon of A highly nutritious dish is made by putting 
four egg-yolks into a double boiler, diluting 
them with half a pint of clear chicken broth, 
and beating the mixture with a whip or beater 



I GO A-MARKETING 33 

until it becomes thick and frothy. When it 
is done add two teaspoonfuls of sherry to it, 
and serve in a cup ; have it just as hot as pos- 
sible. And if the person for whom you con- 
coct this appetizing affair insists upon knowing 
its name, you may say that it is a sabayon of 
chicken. 

And, by the way, what an endless amount Chicken 
of dainty edibles may be made from chicken ! Cwstaz-rf 
Take a chicken custard, for instance ; could 
anything be daintier ? Have a cupful of good 
clear chicken stock, and add to it an equal 
quantity of cream ; cook it for a few minutes, 
then put it into a double boiler, and add the 
beaten yolks of three eggs and a little salt. 
Cook until the mixture thickens a little, and 
then pour it into custard cups to be served 
cold. It 's an ungrateful, whimsical, and 
grumpy sort of an invalid who does n't reckon 
as a red-letter day the time when he first 
tasted of a chicken custard. But whether or 
not this is the case, you will have to keep 
right on shaking up your ideas and producing 
other dishes. 

In all probability you will try your hand Tapioca Jelly 
at jelly-making; and when you have ex- 
hausted your own stock of recipes try making 

3 



34 I GO A-MARKETING 

a tapioca jelly. To prepare it, soak one cup 
of tapioca in three cups of water over night. 
In the morning put it into a double boiler 
with a cup of hot water, and let it simmer 
until perfectly clear, stirring often. Sweeten 
to taste and flavor with the juice of half a 
lemon and two tablespoonfuls of wine. Pour 
into cups, and set away to get perfectly cold. 
When serving, sprinkle with powdered sugar 
and heap a little whipped cream on it. 

Or it may be that a blanc-mange made 
with tapioca will seem to you worth the try- 
ing. If so, soak a cupful of tapioca in two 
cups of water over night. In the morning 
put it into the double boiler, and stir into it 
two cups of boiling milk, three tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, and a pinch of salt. Cook it slowly 
for fifteen minutes, stirring several times. 
Take it from the fire, and flavor with wine 
or vanilla. Let, it harden in small moulds, 
and serve with powdered sugar and whipped 
cream. 
Violet Jelly And some day when the patient is unusually 
capricious try surprising him or her with a 
violet jelly. A woman I know told me not 
long ago that she had found it more efficacious 
than a dozen " soft answers." Have a pint 



I GO A-MARKETING 35 

of clear boiling syrup, and into it throw a 
heaping handful of fresh violets, after remov- 
ing the stalks ; let this simmer, tightly cov- 
ered, for half an hour. Then strain the liquor, 
and add to it half an ounce of gelatine dis- 
solved in a very little water, the juice of an 
orange, and two teaspoonfuls of violet vege- 
table coloring, which is as harmless as so much 
cold water. Turn it into a mould, and set on 
ice to harden. 

"When boiled or steamed rice is ordered, try Steamed 
preparing it in this way. Wash a cupful of '"^ 
it thoroughly and put into the double boiler 
with just enough water to cover it. When 
the rice is nearly done, pour off the water, if 
any remains, and add one cup of milk and a 
little salt. Let the rice cook thoroughly till 
done. Beat an egg well, and the last thing 
before taking the rice from the fire stir the 
egg in as lightly as possible, and serve hot 
with sugar and cream. The egg makes the 
dish a bit more attractive and considerably 
more nutritious. 

I wonder if you have ever tried cooking a Invalid's 
lamb chop or cutlet in this way. Have three ^^"'^ 
cutlets cut, two of them rather thinner than 
the third, then tie them together, the thick 



36 I GO A-MARKETING 

one in the middle. Broil over a hot fire till 
the outside cutlets are burnt to a crisp, and at 
that stage you will find the inside one in just 
the right condition for serving ; salt it, and 
serve piping hot. With it serve a baked 
potato that has been pressed through a sieve. 
Sprinkle the potato with salt and moisten it 
with a little cream. To be sure you may 
think that a somewhat expensive way of cook- 
ing a lamb chop, and so it is from some points 
of view; but it will set any self-respecting 
convalescent at least two days ahead on his 
journey to complete recovery, and when you 
think of it in that way you see it 's positively 
cheap. All these things, yea, and a thousand 
more, must be taken into consideration when 
one is in attendance upon a sick person. 



To say that every one should have a chafing- 
dish in these days were to be trite — every- 
one should have seven chafing-dishes, or as 
near that number as possible ; not one for 
every day in the week exactly, but rather 
that, if you are having a little after-the-opera 
or after-the-theatre jollification and have a 
dozen or so hungry ones to feed, there may 



I GO A-MARKETING 



37 



be enough to go round, and also that you 
may have a variety of dainties. 



Not all will want creamed oysters, of 
course, but you can set a pretty girl to pre- 
paring this dish for those who do want it. 
Give her about half a pint of rich, thick 
cream, an ounce or so of butter and a tea- 
spoonful of flour which she will braid together 
in the most approved cooking-school fashion 
for thickening the cream when it is hot. 
Then she should put in two dozen or so oy- 
sters that have been well drained and freed from 
any bits of shell. If you can trust her to do 
so, let her season the dish with a dash of red 
pepper, and salt, and a shake or two of celery 
salt. When the edges of the oysters begin to 
frizzle, have ready for her either little strips of 
toast or some crackers on hot plates, on which 
to serve the oysters. If you find that more 
than three persons will be apt to bid for the 
creamed oysters, you will want rather more 
than two dozen, I fancy ; still, you will know 
best about that. 

If you have any cold fish in the house, hali- 
but or cod or haddock that has been boiled or 
baked, not fried, have it flaked up in good- 
sized pieces and marinated for three or four 



Creamed 
Oysters 



Flaked Cold 
Cod in 
Tomato 



38 I GO A-MARKETING 

hours in a tablespoonful each of oil and vine- 
gar, a dash of cayenne, the juice of an onion 
and salt to taste. When you are to use it 
have hot in the chafing-dish three teaspoon- 
fuls each of rich tomato sauce, sherry wine 
and butter, putting the butter in a;nd melting 
it first. When these are well blended to- 
gether, lay in the fish and stir it about in the 
sauce till quite hot. This, let me tell you, 
will not go a-begging for admirers. It is a 
particularly savory tidbit, and on a cold night 
is its own best recommendation. 
Lobster j •^yonder if you will say a recipe for lobster 
a la Newberg Is altogether too stale if I under- 
take to tell it to you. I know its age just as 
well as you do, and I also know that I could 
weep bitterly, if it would do any good, at some 
of the concoctions called by that name that I 
have had put before me, and which, worse 
than all, I have been expected to eat. So 
right here I shall put on record my way of 
preparing that delicious dish, and if you don't 
care to read it, why skip it, of course. Into 
the chafing dish put two ounces of butter and 
let it melt; then put in the meat of a two- 
pound lobster cut into dice-shaped pieces and 
let them cook till they are really fried a bit. 



I GO A-MARKETING 39 

Then turn low the flame of the lamp while 
you pour in a little less than a pint of cream 
in which has been beaten three eggs, seasoned 
with salt and red pepper. Just as this is hot 
add a scant wine-glass of sherry and let it 
heat once more, regulating the flame all the 
time so that it cannot boil. For if it does 
the jig is up, the eggs will be sure to curdle, 
and you will wish to goodness you had n't 
undertaken it. Have little triangles of 
toasted bread on which to serve the lobster, 
and if it turns out the success it should, your 
reputation among your guests will be for all 
time established as a hostess who knows her 
business from A to Z. 

If you will get some chicken livers you can Chicken 
prepare a very appetizing dish with very little 'I'^f^""^^ 
trouble. Melt an ounce of butter in the 
chafing dish and in it put, say, eight or ten 
livers that have been salted well and rolled 
in a little flour. Let them cook pretty fast 
for ten minutes, or till you think they are 
done, then put with them half a pint of hot 
water and a teaspoonful of any extract of beefj 
with what salt and pepper your superior judg- 
ment deems suitable. When this is hot turn 
in a gill of sherry, and a dozen olives pitted and 



40 I GO A-MARKETING 

quartered. Just a dash of lemon juice and 
the deed is done, provided you have ready 
some toast for the serving of the hvers. 

If you have n't at the time of night when 
you will be serving these dishes a fire over 
which you can toast the bread, you can have 
one of the guests preparing the bread in a 
chafing dish. Cut the slices of the size you 
like and fry them delicately in a very little 
butter and they will go finely in this way. 
Welsh Because you may think I don't know how 
to make one if I say nothing, I suppose I 
shall have to oiFer a word or so about Welsh 
rabbits. Melt an ounce of butter in the 
chafing-dish and then stir in and let melt 
slowly a pound of cheese cut up into very 
small pieces. Season this as you go along 
with paprika, a little salt, and mustard as you 
think you like it. When the cheese is quite 
melted pour in, very slowly, a little beer or 
ale, about two gills in all. Then when it is 
well blended with the cheese stir in a couple 
of eggs well beaten and serve on crackers. 
Did you ever try making your rabbits with 
ginger ale? Really they are good in that 
way, and it is very palatable to drink when 
you are eating them. And cider is delicious 



I GO A-MARKETING 41 

served with rabbits, also — the champagne 
cider. Try it some time. 

For a golden buck, prepare the cheese as Golden Buck 
for a rabbit, but on each plate when you are 
serving it place a poached egg. These must 
be prepared in another dish while the rabbit 
is under process of construction. So, you 
see, I was n't so far off in my calculations, 
rapid as they seemed to you at the time, when 
I said my little say about seven chafing dishes. 

Suppose you have on hand a pint of rich Eggs 

tomato sauce. Heat this in the chafing-dish J*"" 5 '" 

° Tomato 

and poach in it two eggs. Lift them out and 
lay on a hot dish while you poach two more. 
Continue in this way till you have half-a-dozen 
eggs poached. Serve one or two as you like, 
on a slice of toast or fried bread, pour some 
of the tomato sauce round, sprinkle grated 
Parmesan cheese over each and send them 
around the table on their mission. 

If you are fond of curry try some curried Cunied Eggs 
eggs. Melt in the chafing-dish two ounces 
of butter, and fry in it two small onions, 
sliced ; take these out and stir in a dessert- 
spoonful of curry powder and a teaspoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce. When these are 



42 I GO A-MARKETING 

well mixed add half a dozen well-beaten eggs. 
Cook quickly and serve. 
Creamed Perhaps you have a pet recipe for creamed 
Chicken chicken, and I don't doubt it is all such a re- 
cipe should be ; but let me suggest that, in- 
stead of putting chicken and cream and all 
the other things into the chafing-dish at the 
same time, you melt the butter first and then 
stir in the chicken and let it cook for two or 
three minutes before you put in the cream, or 
bechamel, or whatever it is you use. The 
flavor of the dish will be very much richer 
and more palatable to most persons. For, be- 
tween ourselves, I think that creamed chicken 
is apt to be rather a flat and tasteless affair, 
and will stand quite a little bracing up. 

I hope you won't want to spoil the taste of 
any of these dishes by having sweets after 
them, in the way of fancy cakes, etc. If you 
do, you may choose them for yourselves. 
I '11 have none of them. 



MARCH 



" So comes a reckoning nuhen the banquet 's o'er, — 
The dreadful reckoning, and men smile no more." 

THERE could n't be a better time than 
the present in which to have a smoke- 
talk, mesdames. There, there, now, 
pray don't be alarmed ; I 've no notion of 
passing round any of the popular brands of 
cigars. Neither would I so much as offer you 
cigarettes, albeit the latest scientific utterance 
has pronounced them harmless. 

No, our talk shall be of some of the smoked 
and salted viands that, while they may not 
perhaps come under the head of delicacies or 
indelicacies of the season, are decidedly appe- 
tizing, and quite worthy of having consider- 
able attention given to the best ways and means 
of serving them. 

And have n't you been saddened hundreds Salt Fish 
of times when reflecting upon the disregard ""*'' ^'■^"'" 
of details that makes of a dish of salt-fish and 
cream nothing but a pasty and altogether hor- 
rid mess ? But a dish of salted cod becomes 
delicacy itself if the fish is shredded while raw, 
all skin and bone removed, washed several 



44 I GO A-MARKETING 

times in cold water and cooked in plenty of 
fresh water ; then it should be drained and 
covered with cream, which has been heated 
and thickened with an egg or two beaten up 
well in a tablespoonful or so of cream; add 
a dash of cayenne, to give it a zest, and you 
have prepared for breakfast or luncheon a 
dainty that will quite justify you in fancying 
yourself for the rest of the day. And that 's 
a wonderfully comfortable state of mind in 
which to find oneself. 
Salt Fish Perhaps, however, for a luncheon dish you 
with Brown ^^^y j.^^^^^ j^^^^ ^^^ codfish served with 

Butter T I ■ I 

brown butter. In which case you flake and 

freshen it as before, and cook in plenty of 
water. Take it up on a hot dish and pour 
over it a sauce made of butter, in which you 
have fried minced onion and a handful of 
chopped parsley till they are brown. And you 
can vary this sauce infinitely : add a bay leaf 
or two, or a few capers, or some chopped sweet 
red peppers, and get a new flavor with each 
addition. 

The subject of codfish balls I won't take 
up here. I fear I might make it too exhaus- 
tive. And, besides, every housekeeper seems 
to have a chosen way for preparing them. 



I GO A-MARKETING 45 

I wish as much could be said about that Fried Cods' 
too-little-appreciated genuine delicacy — fresh °"9"^^ 
cod's tongues. They are delicious when boiled 
till tender, and then served with brown but- 
ter, as suggested above for codfish. And they 
are just as good, and some think even better, 
if they are dipped in milk, then rolled one by 
one in flour, and fried in plenty of butter for 
about ten minutes. You can simply pour 
the butter on them when serving, with a little 
chopped parsley scattered over all, or you can 
put into the frying-pan, after taking the tongues 
out, a gill or two of tomato sauce, and serve 
this separately in a sauceboat, serving each 
tongue on a slice of toast. Usually it will be 
found necessary to soak the salted tongues for 
twenty-four hours or more in water, changing 
it once or twice, as seems necessary. 

To be sure there's considerable trouble and 
no small amount of care involved in having 
these edibles, or any others, for that matter, 
quite as one would like, but some old wise- 
acre has said that life's cares are its comforts, 
and if one only has a firm belief, rooted and 
grounded in past experience, in this bit of 
philosophy it 's just as easy to apply it to cook- 
ing as to painting. 



46 I GO A-MARKETING 



Broiled And a little of this care used in the broil- 



Smohed 
Salmon 



ing of smoked salmon redeems it from the 
charred and uninviting dish it too often makes. 
It is best to cut the salmon into small strips, 
wrap each strip in a piece of buttered paper, 
and then broil over a clear fire. When done 
remove the paper, and serve the fish on a 
piping hot dish, at once. And if you want 
a sauce for it make one by cooking a minced 
onion in a gill of vinegar and twice as much 
water, adding, as the onion shows signs of 
tenderness, two ounces of fresh butter, four 
finely chopped hard-boiled egg yolks, and a 
little chopped parsley. 
Boiled Salt Of course you know how to cook salt mack- 
with'Horse- erel — you could sue me for libel if J said 
radish Sauce aught to the contrary. But do you, I won- 
der, ever try preparing it in my favorite way ? 
This is the manner of it : Soak the mackerel 
for twelve hours, changing the water several 
times. Then boil it in an abundance of water, 
in which there is a bay leaf, two or three 
onions, some parsley and the juice of a lemon. 
The fish should cook very slowly, and not be 
allowed to come to pieces. When they are 
done, serve them on a folded napkin, with a 
sauce made by reducing a pint of cream to one- 



I GO A-MARKETING 47 

half, adding to it an ounce of butter, and 
thickening it with two egg yolks. Then add 
to it half its quantity of grated horse-radish, 
heating it again, without boiling. In most 
cases it is necessary to add salt to this sauce, 
but I prescribe no quantity. I only advise 
being skittish about the amount when it is to 
be used for a salt fish. If you are to have 
smoked mackerel, broil instead of boiling it 
and serve with it the cream horse-radish sauce. 

And then there are smoked and salted her- Smoked 
ring, that if cooked judiciously make life at ^^.''""S' 
least a bit more comfortable. It is best to 
soak them for five or six hours in water and 
then for two hours in sweet, fresh milk, after 
which you can work out some wonderful dishes 
with them. If they have been salted only, 
fry in butter and serve them on potatoes 
mashed with cream. But if the herring are 
smoked as well as salted, split them down the 
back and cook in enough milk to cover. 
Cook till thoroughly done, and then serve on 
a very hot dish with branches of parsley 
around, and a little sweet rich cream poured 
over them. 

But, to my thinking, the best of all the 
smoked and salted fish are the finnan baddies. 



48 I GO A-MARKETING 

Finnan And one of the best ways of cooking them is 

Haddies with ^g pgj. ^.j^g^j. j^gj. described for cooking herring. 
Cteam o o 

But the haddies are much less salt, and require 

little, if any, soaking. Or, if you prefer, you 
can put them in a buttered baking-pan, pour 
cream and bread crumbs over them and brown 
in a hot oven. Give them a little more 
cream when serving. And again after you 
and your household have partaken of this dish 
and pronounced it good, hard to beat, etc., you 
will have occasion to be pleased with yourself, 
which, being interpreted, means of course be- 
ing perfectly satisfied with all the world. 



It is possible, nay, probable, that you, 
mesdames, with all the calls that the Lenten 
season makes upon your spiritual selves, find 
little time for ordering or arranging dinners ; 
furthermore — and it 's in no way to your dis- 
credit — it may be that with so much of each 
day given over to reflection and concentrated 
thought you experience a sort of disinclination 
to give heed to things material. Therefore it 
behooves me to be alive to my duty, which 
in the premises certainly seems to prescribe 
that I shall think and plan a bit for you ; and 



I GO A-MARKETING 49 

I herewith submit, as the result of a goodly 
amount of cogitation on my part, a menu 
which I hope will strike you as being a very 
good sort of "working model," should you 
not care to follow it to the letter : — 

Consomme maigre with asparagus points. 

Lake trout with court bouillon. 

Macaroni timbales with tomato sauce. 

Casserole of fillets of sole. 

Oyster souffles. 

Coffee cream glacee. Almond pudding. 

You see that such a menu provides a dinner 
perfectly within the rule implied by "diner 
maigre" though it can in no sense be called 
a fast-day dinner. In fact, the very phrase is 
a contradiction. If you are fasting, you do 
not dine ; you simply eat to live — a very 
different thing. 

And now for particulars. No need to tell 
you how to make the soup ; you have stacks 
of cookery books that will give you the infor- 
mation necessary for the making of a good 
clear consomme. As for the asparagus points, 
it will be quite as well from all points of view 
to buy the canned asparagus tips, and cook 
a little in salted water, adding them to the 
soup about five minutes before it is served. 

4 



so I GO A-MARKETING 

Boiled Lake Perhaps your housekeepers' euides may not 

Trout , fl. • , 1- • • J 1 • 

be sufficiently exphcit in regard to cooking 
the lake trout in the manner suggested, so I 
will tell you in detail. In the first place, you 
take equal quantities of white French wine — 
as inexpensive as you please — and water, one 
small onion, a bouquet of parsley, thyme, etc., 
some peppercorns, and a proper amount of 
salt. Let this boil for fifteen minutes, and 
you have as good a court bouillon as one 
could wish. Into it put the trout, tied into 
any shape you desire, and boil until tender; 
remove it, and serve on a fish paper or nap- 
kin ; garnish with fresh green parsley sprays. 
For the sauce, you will melt some butter in a 
part of the court bouillon, and serve sepa- 
rately. You should find good lake trout in 
the market now, and at a price that does n't 
confine them to the list of luxuries. Are n't 
you glad? 

Have you any idea how many ways are 
known to expert cooks for preparing maca- 
roni ? I have n't. But I should not be 
surprised to see offered for sale any day 
a publication setting forth " One Thousand 
Ways to Cook Macaroni," and I hope that 
macaroni timbales, in case such an event 



I GO A-MARKETING 51 

comes to pass, will be given the place of 
honor. Try making them in this way, and i^ctcaroni 
you Will agree with me. rJoil the macaroni in 
plenty of salted water till it is tender, but not 
"mushy." Drain off the water, and add, 
with all thoughts of economy thrown to the 
winds, melted butter ; stir it in well, and add a 
goodly sprinkling of grated Parmesan cheese 
and cayenne pepper. Line a mould with the 
very best puff-paste you know how to make, 
rolled as thinly as possible, and put in the 
macaroni; cover with a round of the paste, 
lay a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and 
bake in a hot oven for about thirty minutes. 
Unmould on a hot dish, and pour round it 
some tomato sauce made from the best recipe 
given in any of your gastronomical literature. 

Then consult the aforesaid literature still Casserole of 
further, and select therefrom the most appe- ^^jf^ °^ 
tizing recipe for making a stuffing of bread- 
crumbs, when you have it properly prepared 
spread with it some fillets of sole, and tie 
them into shape with a little thread. Now 
put into a casserole, or stewpan, three or four 
ounces of butter, two minced onions, and the 
fish ; let it fry for five or six minutes, then 
add to it two or three gills of bechamel sauce 



52 I GO A-MARKETING 

(see cookery books once more), a cupful of 
chopped mushrooms, and a claret-glass of 
claret. Cover the pan closely, and cook in 
the oven for half an hour. When finished, 
remove the strings from the fillets, and serve 
in a deep dish with the liquor in which they 
were cooked poured over them. And there 
you have a dish fit to tickle the palate of any 
king, or knave, that ever lived. Later in the 
season, when lobsters are selling at a more 
reasonable price, try substituting them for 
the soles, and your delight will be increased 
several-fold. 
Oyster Very likely you know as much or more 
oustes ^^^^ J ^^ about making oyster souffles, but, 
be that as it may, I have the floor, and am 
going to tell you what I do know about them, 
for I may never get another chance. My 
way is to blanch two dozen good oysters in 
their own liquor, then cut them into dice, 
and while they are cooling prepare a sauce of 
two ounces each of butter and flour, a dust 
of cayenne, a little salt, the yolks of three 
eggs, and half a pint of rich milk; when 
it is thick enough and smooth enough I put 
in the oysters and their liquor, pour the mix- 
ture into little soufile cases, sprinkle each with 



I GO A-MARKETING S3 

browned bread-crumbs and bits of butter, 
and bake in a moderate oven for eighteen 
minutes ; then serve at once. How do you 
think you would like to try that way of mak- 
ing them ? 

Now, you will admit that I very seldom Coffee 
presume to tell you how to prepare sweets, ^''^T 
but to-day my story would be incomplete 
if I were to omit the directions for making a 
coffee cream glacee. It is easy as can be; 
that is, if you can freeze things. Beat the 
yolks of four eggs in a basin with four ounces 
of powdered sugar, standing the basin in an- 
other of hot water, so that they may get quite 
warm, but not hot ; add to them a gill of 
strong coffee, beat it all together till it is 
light and creamy and quite cold. Then add 
to it a pint of stiffly whipped cream, pour the 
mixture into a mould, and bury in ice and salt 
for two hours. Unmould on the prettiest 
piece of lace paper you have when serving. 

Perhaps I run the risk of overdoing the Almond 
matter by telling you how to make an almond l'"<^<^'"9 
pudding, but it does harmonize so delightfully 
with coffee glacee that 'twould be actually 
sinful to leave you in ignorance of how it 
is made. It 's simple, too, simple as a b c. 



54 I GO A-MARKETING 

You just beat up the yolks of five and the 
whites of three eggs with a large tablespoonful 
of rose-water, and add gradually to it four 
ounces of powdered sugar and four ounces of 
freshly ground almonds, mixed with a few 
small whole ones. Beat this thoroughly for 
ten or fifteen minutes, pour into a well-but- 
tered pie-dish and bake. When half-cooked, 
garnish with strips of candied orange peel 
and blanched almonds. And if you have 
any of the pudding left, which is doubtful, 
you will find that it makes an excellent five- 
o'clock tea cake, for it is quite as good cold 
as hot. 

Now, have I not given you a good ground 
plan, so to speak, for Lenten dinners ? It is 
the easiest thing in the world to leave out a 
part of it, or add to it, for that matter, for it 
is composed wholly of neutral tints, you might 
say, and almost any viand under the sun will 
dovetail with it, if you wish to elaborate it. 



I really don't know the first thing about 
the dietetic properties of eggs, for which 
ignorance I am truly grateful, because I have 
always noticed that once a man or a woman 



I GO A-MARKETING 55 

gets where the healthfiilness or the hurtful- 
ness of any edible becomes the first consid- 
eration all real pleasure to be found in dining 
has for that man or woman lost half its 
charm. 

Neither could I guess, though I had a 
dozen chances, whether the fact that eggs 
form the backbone of so many meals during 
Lent has its foundation in history, or some 
religious rite. And I am also content to 
remain uninformed on this point. 

But I do know that at market these days 
the sign "strictly fresh eggs" is the most 
noticeable feature on every hand ; and I 
know, too, that there are a good many house- 
keepers who fairly long to know of some way 
in which to improve upon the neutral flavor of 
an egg so that it may become dainty, savory or 
delicately sweet as the case may seem to require. 

To begin with the savory list : Some fine Eggs Curdled 
morning when you are to have for break- .'"" (^''^am 
fast just an appetizing bit of broiled salted 
herring, try cooking some eggs in this way — 
Put half a pint of cream into a saucepan and 
let it boil. Stir into it five well-beaten eggs, 
seasoned with salt and pepper. Let this 
mixture curdle, then turn it out on to a hot 



56 I GO A-MARKETING 

dish and brown it quickly with a salamander ; 
and you '11 be at a loss to know whether it's 
the herring that makes the egg taste so well, 
or if it 's the egg that makes the herring so 
remarkably palatable. 
Eggs, Epi- Another delicious way of serving eggs for 
curean Style breakfast is to have, as a beginning, say one 
dozen eggs and boil them till hard ; take oiF 
their shells, cut them in halves and rub the 
yolks through a fine sieve ; put an ounce of 
butter and one cupful of cream into a sauce- 
pan, season it with salt and white pepper and 
thicken with a very little flour. When it is 
quite hot but not boiling stir into it half of 
the whites of the eggs, chopped, and the yolks. 
Arrange the remainder of the whites on a dish, 
pour the mixture over them, and serve piping 
hot. You see the eggs can be boiled and pre- 
pared the day before, and there 's very litde 
to be done to get them ready for breakfast. 
Now, should you want to make this into a 
more savory dish, you could easily add a little 
minced ham, the juice of an onion, or some 
minced olives and a few mushrooms, and have 
by so doing a delectable luncheon dish that 
would go admirably with, say, some cold sliced 
tongue or with pickled 'lambs' tongues. 



I GO A-MARKETING 57 

A particularly savory dish of eggs is made Baked Eggs 
by frying two small minced onions in butter 
till they are brown ; then mix with them a 
dessertspoonful of vinegar, a very little salt, 
and some pepper. Butter a dish, spread the 
onions over it, break over them half a dozen 
eggs, and put into a hot oven. When the 
eggs are cooked sufficiently, cover them with 
a layer of bread-crumbs that have been fried 
in butter, and serve. The bread-crumbs must 
be hot, of course. Try this some day at 
luncheon when you are having broiled pigs' 
feet and potato croquettes. 

And if it does n't turn out the success you Egg Toast 
hoped, the next day you might take some very ""'** Cheese 
thin slices of bread, trim off the crusts, lay 
on a well-buttered dish, and cover with very 
thin slices of cheese. Beat up well enough 
eggs to cover the bread, season with salt 
and a little cayenne pepper, and pour them 
over the slices. Put the dish in a moderate 
oven and bake until the eggs are set. Serve 
while very hot in the same dish. If you 
prefer, you may use in place of the sliced 
cheese some grated Parmesan cheese sprinkled 
over the bread, and sprinkle a little over the 
eggs too. 



58 I GO A-MARKETING 

Eggain Eggs scrambled in tomato puree make a 
Tomato ^electable dish for luncheon, or for dinner as 
an entree. Have half a pmt of rich tomato 
puree, and cook in it half-a-dozen well beaten 
eggs ; pour the whole into a deep dish, and 
serve with it some bread croutons. Some 
finely cut up chives will at times be thought 
an improvement to this dish. 
Scrambled And there are scrambled eggs with truffles 
^^7* ffl** ^^^ ^^^ good enough for any time or place. 
Cook four sliced truffles in a wineglass of 
Madeira for about two minutes ; then put in 
a tablespoonful of butter, and season with 
salt and white pepper. Break eight eggs 
and without beating stir them well with a 
wooden spoon in the wine for three minutes, 
cooking quickly all the while. Serve in a 
hot dish. 
Caviare If one is fond of caviare (and who is n't 
nowadays ?), an omelet with caviare is most 
tempting. Make an omelet of the desired 
number of eggs, and just before folding over 
spread it with a layer of caviare diluted with 
a little bechamel sauce. After the omelet is 
dished, garnish with parsley. 

You will find in your hunts for Spanish 
omelet recipes that they will turn up as thick 



Omelets 



I GO A-MARKETING 59 

as bees in a hive, after which you will let the Spanish 
different directions for this savory dish foment "'"®'®* 
in your mind till you get what seems to be 
the best from each and turn out one that is 
your very own, and entitled to be known to 
your friends as " Spanish omelet a la Madame 
Featherstonaugh " — or whatever name has 
the honor to belong to you. My recipe you 
shall have till you get one of your own, how- 
ever. To begin with, have a rich tomato 
puree ; to this you add chopped pimentos or 
sweet Spanish peppers con amore, then a bit 
of fried chopped onion, a few mushrooms, 
also cooked, and diced cold cooked tongue or 
ham, preferably tongue. Take any liberties 
with it that you like, pray. Don't think you 
must follow it to the letter. I rarely do, to be 
candid with you. I have used cold chicken, 
cold duck, and also cold goose, when the larder 
has been bereft of ham or tongue ; and not 
one of my household dared to say anything 
shady about it. 

Of course, every housekeeper has a chicken Omelet with 
liver omelet recipe among her belongings, ^^"'*^" 
and made in the most ordinary way they are 
pretty sure to be worth the eating ; but if the 
livers are cooked in a little butter, and then 



6o I GO A-MARKETING 

a little Madeira is added to the butter, the 
omelet is far and away ahead of those made by 
ordinary recipes, as you will see by try- 
ing it. 
Jelly Omelet When it comes to an omelet for dessert, 
nothing can be better than an omelet stuffed 
with preserves or fresh fruit. If preserves are 
used, there 's a wide range from which to 
select, and any taste can be satisfied. Fill it 
with currant jelly, or apricot or grapefruit 
marmalade, or any other fruit that you like. 
In almost any case a little grated lemon peel 
and a handful of chopped almonds will be 
an improvement. After the omelet is dished 
it should always be sprinkled with finely 
powdered sugar. 
Strawberry You might in the way of fresh fruits 
Omelet ^^^ some of the strawberries that are of re- 
spectable flavor and price now. Get a box 
some day of the best-looking ones you can 
find, and sort them over. Save out about 
half of them, the fairest ones in the lot, 
cut in halves, and put them in a bowl with 
two heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar, a piece 
of orange peel, and two teaspoonfuls of rum, 
and set them in a cool place. Press the 



I GO A-MARKETING 6i 

remainder of the strawberries through a fine 
sieve, and sweeten well. Make an omelet 
of six eggs, and before folding over fill it 
with the cut-up strawberries, without any of 
the liquid. Dish the omelet, sprinkle with 
powdered sugar, and pour around it the juice 
of the strawberries, to which has been added 
the liquid from the halved strawberries. It 's 
a delicate dish, indeed, and you will find that 
it will be a favorite at any table. 

If you have a recipe for C6lestine omelets, Ceiestine 
small ones, of which you are very much enam- "'^ ^ 
ored, this paragraph will not interest you. 
But if you are at odds with the one you have, 
glance through this. Make as many small 
omelets as you think will be required, one egg 
to each, with yolk and white beaten separately. 
Put them on a hot dish, cover with a thin layer 
of peach marmalade, and on this sprinkle 
chopped candied fruits with a few chopped 
almonds, and over all spread whipped cream. 
Work at chain-lightning speed in preparing 
this after the omelets are dished, and get to 
the table in even quicker time, if you would 
know this dish in perfection. Though if 
anything happens to cause you to slacken 



62 I GO A-MARKETING 

your pace a bit, it will be worth the having, 
for it will bear shading down a trifle from the 
top-notch. Or, make the eggs into one large 
omelet, and before folding it over fill with the 
jam and fruits, and sprinkle the almonds and 
whipped cream over it after it is dished. 
Snow Eggs Then there's a dish called " Snow Eggs " 
that 's just as inofi^ensive as it sounds. You 
beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, 
and then drop them a spoonful at a time into 
boiling milk till they poach a bit. Take them 
out, thicken the milk with the yolks, adding 
sugar and any desired flavoring. Pour this 
over the poached whites, dish, and sprinkle 
with chopped macaroons before serving. 
Omelette It would n't be fair to omit any mention 
ouffee ^£ ^^ omelette soufflee in a chapter on eggs ; 
so here it shall go, though for myself I don't 
care for it. It has always seemed to me like 
a dessert to be served when a dessert was n't 
really needed or wanted, but because a dessert 
of some kind must go down to make the 
luncheon or dinner complete. Separate, then, 
the yolks and whites of five eggs. Beat the 
yolks and half a cup of sugar together for 
ten minutes. Flavor with a little rose-water. 



I GO A-MARKETING 63 

Then turn to the whites, and beat them to 
the stifFest kind of a froth. Butter a souffle 
dish, and pour the mixture into it. Bake 
for twelve minutes, and send to table. The 
guests should always be waiting for an omelette 
soufflee, mind. Never force the omelet to do 
the waiting — it is n't giving it a fair chance. 



APRIL 

"The best doctors in the ixjorld are Doctor 
Diet, Doctor Sfuiet, and Doctor Merryman/' 



THE very first thing to be done on 
Easter morning is to get up in time 
to see the sun dance ; for, as you 
probably know, not a bit of good luck will 
be yours for the year to come if laziness, 
or anything, in fact, save cloudy skies, pre- 
vents your beholding this phenomenon. But 
it is possible that you don't know that this 
means nothing less than to be facing the east 
with eagle eye and steady nerve at a pretty 
early hour. Rather rough, is n't it ? How 
would it do, then, to sit up all night in order 
to be on hand to witness the fancy steps 
of the god of day ? You could do that and 
then have a good long nap, after which you 
might be refreshed by a breakfast of shad roes 
(they 're about as inexpensive now as they 
will be), broiled to a turn, with a little melted 
butter and lemon juice, judiciously mixed, 
poured over them ; dainty, crisp lettuce hearts, 
salted a bit; graham bread, thinly sliced, 
and toasted to that shade known the world 



I GO A-MARKETING 65 

over "as epicurean brown;" and lastly, 
instead of coffee, a steaming, fragrant, appe- 
tizing cup of English breakfast tea. My 
word for it, you will be tempted to linger 
over this breakfast, but stern duty permits no 
such loitering. No, indeed; you must be up 
and away, or how on earth are you going to 
make certain comparisons that shall confirm 
you in your belief that your new bonnet is 
nothing less than a dream ? Dear knows, I 
hope you won't see any headgear that will 
take the shine off your own, for then you will 
be sure to go home out of sorts, and the 
charming little dinner menu that I have com- 
piled for your use and behoof might as well 
^ be of corned beef and cabbage for all the 
appreciation it will get from ypu. 

But in case that everything does go 
smoothly, and nothing happens to nick your 
peace of mind, could anything be more de- 
lectable than a dinner which would unfold 
itself to your delighted palate in this order ? 
To begin with: Clam cocktails, made, of ciam 
course, with the little-neck variety; they Cocktails 
should be put in half-dozen lots into small 
glasses, and seasoned with lemon juice, tabasco, 
salt, and the tiniest suspicion of onion juice — 

5 



66 I GO A-MARKETING 

just enough, you understand, to cause one to 
wonder if that delightful flavor is really onion. 

And then to follow up the good impression 
left by the clam cocktails, have a soup of con- 
somme of perfect flavor and delicacy — the 
sort, you know, that doesn't jar with what 
has gone before or is to come. 

The " to come " in this case might be, 
say, of trout, broiled to a nicety and served 
with tartar sauce. But if for financial reasons 
you object to the trout, why, then you may get 
good salmon from the West, or pompano, and 
bluefish of fairly good flavor. But whatever 
fish you decide upon, have it broiled, so that 
you may serve it with some delicious hothouse 
cucumbers. Quite a little fall in the price of 
cucumbers you will see within the next two 
or three weeks. 
Lamb Steak And the price of spring lamb has dropped 
perceptibly too by this time. Now, please, 
whichever part of the lamb you select, don't 
have it roasted. Have it sliced for steaks, and 
broiled to the stage most in favor in your 
family circle, then salted well, but buttered 
sparingly, as you must — there is no use in 
trying to dodge the issue — serve a Bearnaise 
sauce with lamb steak. Have lobster salad 



I GO A-MARKETING 67 

without the lobster, omit the crabs from dev- 
illed crabsj if it pleases you, but never under 
any circumstances serve a lamb steak without 
a Bearnaise sauce. It would be barbarism — 
nothing short of it ! And to make the sauce? Bearnaise 
Well, put into a saucepan a gill of vinegar and """^ 
water, equal parts, half a teaspoonful of minced 
onion, and a few tarragon leaves. Let this cook, 
tightly covered, till reduced one-half; then 
take it off the fire, and when cold mix with it 
the well-beaten yolks of four eggs ; season 
with salt and mignonette, and return to the 
fire ; add slowly to it three ounces of melted 
butter, stirring continually till it thickens to 
the consistency of mayonnaise. Then strain 
it through a fine sieve, and add to it chopped 
tarragon, a teaspoonful, and the same quantity 
of chopped parsley. 

And there 's just one way to cook potatoes Potatoes 
so that they seem quite good enough to ac- Soufflees 
company a lamb steak, and that way is called 
potatoes soufflees. The potatoes should be 
trimmed to ovals two and a quarter inches 
long by one and a quarter wide, and then 
sliced lengthwise, having the slices half an 
inch in thickness. When they are sliced, 
put them into ice-water to remain twenty-five 



68 I GO A-MARKETING 

minutes. Then have ready two pans of frying 
fatj one just hot and the other piping hot. 
Into the former put the potatoes, in a frying- 
basket, and let them cook without browning 
till tender; take them out, place on a 
sieve to cool and dry somewhat, and then 
plunge them into the pan containing the 
piping hot fat ; stir them about, and they will 
begin to souffler ; then they must be taken 
out, salted and served. 

Now, if anything happens to prevent this 
course from turning out the howling success 
that I predict for it, I want you to go to my 
favorite dining place the next time you are in 
New York and order " the same." You will 
know then what these two dishes are in 
perfection. 

It may be that a salad of new beets would 
be quite the thing on this occasion ; if so, you 
will have no trouble in finding them in good 
condition, and as sweet as a new beet should be. 

Here endeth my part of the lesson. 

Set your own pace for a dessert. 



Although I am prepared to sit up nights 
to sympathize with any one who is really de- 
serving of having me share that emotion with 



I GO A-MARKETING 69 

her, I don't have a particle of desire to weep 
with the woman who weeps because visitors 
have dropped in on her suddenly and caught 
her with her cupboard bare. In these days 
of canned things the woman whose larder 
does n't boast as a continuous performance at 
least half a dozen varieties was never meant 
for a housekeeper. 

For my part, I should think I was remiss 
in the duties of a housekeeper if I did not 
have half a dozen varieties of canned soup 
alone from which to select in time of need. 

Start, then, we will say, an impromptu lunch Sardine 
with a soup canned by any one of the sixteen ""* 
firms, more or less, that so prepare them. Of 
course, there will be sardines — the stand-by of 
all housekeepers ; but you will have sardine 
toast — a rarity with almost every one. Wipe 
the skin off the sardines with a dry cloth. The 
toasted bread is free from all crust, mind, and 
it is spread with butter mixed with lemon 
juice and chopped parsley. The sardines are 
laid on it, and the whole arrangement set in 
the oven to heat. 

Just as tempting a bouchee is an anchovy Anchovy 
toast. Chop the anchovies, and add to them ^""s* 
bits of parsley, a suspicion of onion juice, a 



70 I GO A-MARKETING 

few drops of lemon juice, and some paprika. 
Spread this on toast which has been buttered, 
and heat quickly in the oven. 
Tunny-Fish Then, there 's tunny-fish always to be 
depended upon to furnish an impromptu 
dish that seems like one planned long before. 
Drain it from the oil in which it is preserved. 
Lay it on a dish, sprinkle with lemon juice, 
chopped parsley, and capers ; and keep your 
eyes open for the admiring glances your guests 
will be trying to hide from you when they 
first taste of it. 

Then smoked, boneless herring, you know, 
are good almost any way ; but broiled till 
they curl up a bit over a hot fire, and 
sent to table flanked by olives, water crackers, 
and a bottle or two of lager beer, they are 
leaders. 

Of course, with two or three kinds of 
devilled meats in the house the making of 
sandwiches, even at short notice, is just a pas- 
time ; and with all the crackers now to be had 
it would be foolish to waste tears over the ab- 
sence of bread. In fact, the world, the mar- 
ket, and the grocery store are filled to the 
brim with substitutes nowadays — substitutes 
that make it easy to forget originals. 



I GO A-MARKETING 71 

Although 't is by signs of promises soon to 
be richly fulfilled that a market interests me 
chiefly at this season, there is no lack even 
to-day of a good supply of edibles, both sub- 
stantial and delicate, and do I go a-marketing 
determined to buy everything on an economi- 
cal basis I find Dame Nature and the market- 
man in league to help me furnish forth my 
table daintily and inexpensively. Or, if in a 
reckless mood of extravagance I betake my- 
self to the vendor of viands, I find him and 
the dear old dame quite as helpful in carry- 
ing out my plans. 

Naturally, in trips to market, my methodi- 
cal mind leads me to inquire first what is suit- 
able for breakfast ; what is best calculated to 
minister to an appetite capricious in the fickle 
springtime. Numerous answers are forth- 
coming to my inquiry, the first of which says 
shad roes made into delicious croquettes with 
a garnishing of lettuce hearts. Very good, I 
say, very appropriate, but what else is there ? 
— every one does n't care for that dish. And 
then, taking the matter into my own hands, 
as the marketman is perfectly willing that I 
should, I peer around to see what is to be 
had, and make notes mentally for future use. 



72 I GO A-MARKETING 

There are mackerel of finest flavor, which, if 
broiled to a turn and having as an accompani- 
ment crisp, fresh radishes, are fit to put before 
a king. Another breakfast dish, which is also 
quite good enough for any royal person, is of 
kidneys broiled on skewers with alternate 
slices of bacon. A bit of parsley serves not 
only to decorate this last dish, but forms a 
piquant relish for it, and relishes for breakfast 
dishes are more of a necessity now than at 
any other season. The orange juice which 
has proved so potent an appetizer when the 
mercury ranges near to zero, fails to supply 
the needed zest for a springtime morning meal, 
and we must have recourse to a fresh green 
vegetable, in addition. 

From breakfast fare to luncheon dishes I 
turn my attention logically, and learn that 
sweetbreads are particularly fine just now in 
whatever way they are served, but in my 
opinion they are never quite so good as when 
simmered gently in butter and served with 
cream sauce, to which has been added a few 
fresh mushrooms. 

Spring chickens, tender and toothsome if 
broiled as they should be, are worthy of an 
honored place at any luncheon, and the mar- 



I GO A-MARKETING 73 

ketman tells me those lately received are of 
excellent quality. 

That dainty of dainties, in the estimation 
of many people, frogs' legs, if broiled or served 
with a cream sauce, appeals to the most fas- 
tidious palate. And just now they are not 
only plentiful and in fine condition, but are 
quite inexpensive. 

A dish which we cannot always obtain, and 
which is especially suitable for a midday meal, 
is of the Taunton River alewives smoked; 
they should be broiled, and there should be 
served with them, without fail, a potato salad 
made from the Bermuda potatoes, which are 
exceptionally desirable at this season. 

In the ordering of a dinner I have always 
maintained that though it consists of only 
two courses, there is an opportunity for the 
exercise of great discretion. A knowledge of 
the eternal fitness of things is essential above 
all else in order to arrange a dinner at 
which the courses shall not be at war with 
each other. A certain famous lawyer re- 
marked in my hearing not long ago that " he 
knew women who could play whist and play 
it as it should be, and he knew women who 
could order a dinner fit for the gods, but 



74 I GO A-MARKETING 

never had he known and never did he expect 
to know, a woman who could do both." Per- 
haps he was right, but I believe there are 
women in plenty who are quite capable of 
doing both to perfection. 

At this season, with oysters almost out of 
the running, little-neck clams may be depended 
upon to whet the appetite, while the soup 
which follows must be at once delicate and 
yet so rich that the first spoonful enchants. 
If the next course is to be of bluefish, or of 
salmon, or of striped bass, all of which are in 
first-class condition in this month, potatoes 
should be served in any desired shape if the 
fish is to be boiled or braised; should it be 
broiled or fried, then by all means let its 
accompaniment be cucumbers, which are plen- 
tiful, and are sold at a comparatively low 
figure, by now. 

If you follow my advice you will avoid the 
heavy, clumsy, and unimaginative joint. De- 
cide rather upon ducklings to be roasted or 
broiled, or upon squabs; or, if these are a 
thought too expensive, choose fowl, which 
should be good and plentiful. Have it par- 
boiled and then fried Maryland style, or 



I GO A-MARKETING 75 

fricasseed, or boil it till quite tender and serve 
with a caper sauce. 

As for vegetables, just now, and for several 
weeks to come, nothing can be better than 
asparagus, which improves, and is less expen- 
sive every day. Frequently I tire of it served 
on toast, in which case, after boiling it, I 
moisten it with melted butter, sprinkle grated 
Parmesan over the top and brown it in the 
oven. Or, if I wish to serve it as a salad, I 
have it ice-cold and pour over it a dressing 
made of oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, with a 
suspicion of French mustard added. 

For salads, tomatoes, perhaps, have first 
choice, for they are really very fine, coming 
in from the hothouses fresh every day. Water- 
cress is at its best estate, and whether it be 
served as a salad or taken simply with a grain 
of salt, it is a delicacy worthy of honor. 

It is hardly possible to serve fruit out of 
place at dinner ; before the soup it is appe- 
tizing, as a compote for an entree it is highly 
delectable, while at dessert its presence is 
time-honored, and I would that there were 
more varieties in market just now. However, 
the strawberries and pineapples due are quite 



76 I GO A-MARKETING 

sufficient to console us for the absence of 
other fruits. 

With that most delicious vegetable aspara- 
gus as good and as plenty as it is bound to 
be for two months or so longer, it is but a 
waste of time to search for any other vegetable 
to take its place. The truth is, it hasn't a 
rival, and it never had one — even in Pliny's 
day, when it grew wild. But gardeners in those 
days cultivated it just as they do now, and it 
was no uncommon thing for them to produce 
stalks of which it took but three to weigh a 
pound. If any gardeners do raise such mam- 
moth specimens in these days they keep very 
quiet about it. But perhaps they don't taste any 
better than smaller ones. Why should they? 

It will do to have asparagus boiled, just 
plainly boiled, two out of every three times 
that you have it. But the third times are 
those of which I would talk., 
Asparagus Suppose you cut off the tips into inch 
Tips in lengths, and boil very slowly in salted water 
till tender. Then drain and let get perfectly 
cold, after which you brown them a bit in 
butter in a frying pan. At the first threat to 
become brown cover the asparagus with cream, 
heat well and serve on toasted bread. 



I GO A-MARKETING 77 

If this does n't satisfy you for a third try Asparagus 
another way. Cut the asparagus up just the g^*^/"'''"'^ 
same and boil with it a few new green peas 
and some shredded lettuce. Season with pep- 
per and salt, and flavor with a few drops of 
onion juice. Add an ounce or two of melted 
butter to them after draining off the water in 
which they were boiled, pour over them half 
a pint of white sauce thickened, and then go 
ahead with the serving on toast. 

Then you can boil the asparagus tips and Baked 
heap them mound shape in a baking dish, Asparagus 
pour through them a Hollandaise or a Bear- 
naise sauce, cover the top with grated Par- 
mesan cheese and brown in a hot oven. 

But for asparagus salad be sure that after Asparagus 
the tips are taken from the boiling water they *"'""' 
are plunged into ice water. Then cover, when 
serving, with a French dressing in which has 
been stirred a little French mustard. 

Or take some asparagus tips boiled and Asparagus 
cooled and serve them on shaved ice with a *"'"'' ^ 
dressing of salt, lemon juice, and horse-radish, or 
tabasco, and with a little bit of your most charm- 
ing -persiflage you will be able to persuade some 
of your followers that you have produced an 
excellent substitute for little-neck clams. 



MAY 

■ Some laid 'John, print it,' others said, 'Not so,'' 
Some said ' It might do good,'' others said « No.' 



I 



T 'S the month when, by a logical amount 
of reasoning, the housekeeper is per- 
suaded that she can easily treat her 
family to roasted veal, at least once a week, 
without any member of it entering a com- 
plaint. She tries it. The second time serv- 
ing it threatens to go a-begging, and the third 
time there is so much left over that it can't 
be worked up in seven days — when, by her 
reckoning, another knuckle is due. People 
do tire of veal in short order, even those who 
have a liking for it, for some reason or other. 
I am inclined to think that a good many times 
the " tired feeling " sets in because of the way 
it is served — not enough is done to prepare 
the palate for it 

Veal, then, more than any other roast, needs 

to have the way prepared for it, very gingerly 

Olives with and very delicately. Let us discuss a way 

Caviare fg^ doing this. First, have pitted olives that 

you have filled with caviare. Rest these olives 



I GO A-MARKETING 79 

on little rounds of toast that have been spread 
with caviare, and sprinkled with lemon juice. 

Now, for a soup. Soak over night a pint of Puree of 
green dried peas. Drain, and cook in plenty ^®"* ""'' 
of fresh water till perfectly tender. Then press 
through a sieve. Have cooked, at the same 
time, a peck of spinach, and press through a 
sieve also. Then put the two purees to- 
gether, season with salt and pepper ; heat well, 
adding half a pint of milk. Just before 
taking up, pour in a pint of cream, and serve 
with tiny squares of fried bread in the tureen. 
Ever heard of this before ? It 's a soup that 
is rich and delicate, but not so hearty that it 
does more than whet the appetite for what is 
to follow. 

Shall we say salmon comes next ? It 's a Mayonnaise 
thought high as yet, perhaps, but you only '^^j"^°''^^' 
need a little of it — a pound for four, where 
a roast is to follow. But, to tell the truth, 
my insisting on your having it comes almost 
wholly from a desire I have to tell you of a 
new sauce for boiled or broiled salmon. It is 
nothing more than mayonnaise, a half pint, 
with a heaping tablespoonful of horse-radish 
stirred through it. Oh, you will like it fast 



8o I GO A-MARKETING 

enough ! And you will like it with cold 
salmon, just as well. 

By the time the fish is a thing of the past, 
you will all be ready for the roasted veal. 
Duchesse On this, of course, you have had tied thin 
Sauce gijj,gg Qf g^ii; pork before it is roasted. With 
it, will you have a duchesse sauce ? I think 
you will. For this you have a pint of good 
stock, thickened a bit with butter braided with 
flour. After it is heated, there is added to it 
a wineglass of any white wine. 
Onion Sauce Or, if I have made a mistake, and you will 
have none of it, do let me suggest an onion 
sauce. Peel and chop three onions, and let 
simmer in plenty of butter, closely cov- 
ered, for an hour. Let them brown, a trifle, 
at the last, and add a tablespoonful of flour 
with pepper and salt. Then add to them half 
a pint each of white stock and cream. Pour 
this into the pan in which the veal was roasted, 
after it is taken out, set the pan on top of the 
range and let boil gently for five minutes. 
It 's an improved sauce Soubise, you may say, 
if any of your guests are led to ask the name 
of it. But, if they ask for directions for mak- 
ing it, don't ^ve them up. Advise, instead. 



I GO A-MARKETING 8i 

buying this book to learn, as you did, how to 
concoct such a bit of deliciousness. 

Really, I would n't have more than one vege- 
table with the veal, and that asparagus, as 
it's the season for it. Or, have something 
else, if you prefer, and have an asparagus 
salad. 

For the dessert, why not a rhubarb sher- Rhubarb 
bet? Cut up two pounds of it, and boil °^^''''^* 
with a few drops of water and plenty of sugar, 
the rind of a lemon, and a little liquid carmine 
to color it prettily. Let this get cool ; strain 
through a sieve, and add to it a pint of claret 
and two tablespoonfuls of rum. Freeze, and 
have ready to decorate it, when serving, some 
strips of candied ginger. You will find it all 
that you have reason to think it should be, 
coming from this source. 

But, if you prefer an apricot charlotte, it Apricot 
shall be my pleasure to tell you how to make Charlotte 
one. Line the same charlotte mould you 
always use with sponge drops, or fingers, care- 
fully trimmed to fit. In fact, you want to 
give them a regular tailor-made fit. Then fill 
with a pint of preserved apricots, which have 
been stewed till tender enough to rub through 
a sieve. Stir into it an ounce of gelatine, dis- 



82 I GO A-MARKETING 

solved in a little water. Let it get perfectly 
cool, and then whip into it a pint of already 
whipped cream. Turn into the mould and 
set away to harden. And you have the most 
ungrateful family in the neighborhood if they 
don't count this dinner as a red-letter event 
in their lives. 



Think you that upon one of these morn- 
ings, when the mercury shows a sullen deter- 
mination to do nothing but climb, climb, climb, 
you can prepare a more tempting dish for 
breakfast than one of shrimps, which have 
been boiled in fresh water, then salted and 
cooled, and finally sent to table upon chopped 
ice ? You will find them at the market for 
the rest of this month, at least, in excellent 
condition, and at a reasonable price. And 
should you elect to serve them according to 
the foregoing suggestion, place near them on 
the table a dish of crisp, fresh watercress, 
lightly piled, ministering thereby to the eye's 
pleasure as well as to the appetite's desire. 

But if, some fine morning, a breath of win- 
ter comes o'er the land, via an east wind, then 
you will, perhaps, crave food served hot, in 



I GO A-MARKETING 83 

which case have veal cutlets (veal is in fine Broiled Veai 
shape now) ; dip them in melted butter and ^"*'^*' 
then broil over the coals ; you will find this 
an infinitely better way of cooking them than 
by frying, which so many housekeepers con- 
sider the standard method. Or, if you do 
not care for veal, try thin slices of bacon, 
broiled, and served on toasted graham bread. 
As a fruit, for leading up to either of these 
dishes, I think you will prefer pineapples, for 
they are of delicious quality now, and sold at 
a price which also recommends them to your 
notice. Quite as appetizing, however, you 
might find cherries, but, though they are of 
fairly good flavor, they are a bit expensive, as 
they have a right to be, coming from such a 
distance. 

It is with intent and purpose that I do not 
suggest that everlasting Americanism, beef- 
steak for breakfast ; to my mind, it seems far 
more suitable for the luncheon table, and just 
now, with mushrooms so plenty, and as inex- 
pensive as they ever are, a well-broiled, tender, 
juicy sirloin steak, with a mushroom sauce, 
makes a dish fit for the gods, and yet not a whit 
too good for human nature's daily food. Just 
as good, in its way, for luncheon, is a herring 



84 I GO A-MARKETING 

Herring salad, made of smoked herring. Omit the 
" use of caviare, which many cook-books recom- 
mend, for you want nothing that will en- 
croach upon the flavor of the herring, but 
rather something which will act as its com- 
plement. For this purpose use one-third cold 
sliced potatoes to two-thirds herring, a plen- 
tiful sprinkling of capers, and the ordinary 
oil and vinegar dressing, with the salt put in 
by a miserly hand. Another salad, suitable for 
luncheon, especially if cold tongue is served, 
is made of the little Bermuda onions, which 
are abundant now; they should be minced 
finely and served ice-cold to win your highest 
admiration. 
Balled And now, just one more dish before 
Chicken Hash leaving the luncheon table. Have you ever 
prepared a baked-chicken hash? If not, 
allow me to suggest that you chop quite finely 
the cold meat of chicken or fowl, season it 
with salt and white pepper, moisten it with 
cream or with milk and butter, scatter bread- 
crumbs over the top and brown in the oven, 
and behold, you have one of the homeliest 
dishes in the annals of housekeepers glorified 
to suit the palate of a veritable epicure. 
Whenever, at this season of the year, I go 



I GO A-MARKETING 85 

to market in search of fish for the dinner-table, 
it is only by the exercise of great will power 
that I am able to refrain from buying soft-shell 
crabs. They are so deliciousj whether broiled 
or fried, that it seems positively wicked they 
should be so expensive. Still, the fish dealer 
assures me that almost any day the price 
may " break " and, other fish being plentiful, 
we can afford to wait patiently for the " drop." 
Delicious trout, of either the lake or brook 
variety, are abundant, and in whatever way 
they are served are one of the pleasures of the 
present day. 

Although the month of roses is generdly 
known as the month of salmon, it is in first- 
class condition now, and obtainable at a fairly 
low figure. No other fish is so capable of re- 
serving ; little scraps left may be warmed in 
cream and served on toast for breakfast, made 
into a salad for luncheon, or shaped into cro- 
quettes for dinner the following day. 

In the vernacular of the marketman, "spring 
lamb is getting down on to the earth." Which, 
being interpreted for ears polite, means that 
the price is getting lower each week, but that 
the flavor remains unsurpassed ; in fact " none 
but itself can be its parallel." Bits of lamb 



86 I GO A-MARKETING 

left from dinner may be prepared in the way 
suggested for baked-chicken hash, and will, I 
am sure, merit your favor. 

When lamb is suggested, there follows, as 
a natural sequence, the thought of green peas ; 
and if the peas in market to-day were only as 
good as they look, the thought would be a 
happy one. As matters stand, however, for 
those who know not the delight of eating peas 
in less than three hours from the time they 
are gathered from the vines, the representa- 
tives of this vegetable to be had now will pass 
muster. For myself, I prefer either cauli- 
flower or egg plant, both of them plenty and 
in good condition now. The former if boiled 
and served with a white sauce, or baked with 
cheese is especially gratifying when served 
with a roast of lamb, while the egg-plant will 
be quite as much of a success if broiled, or 
stuffed and baked. 

Of course asparagus has attained perfection, 
and is so in evidence on every hand that it is 
not necessary to mention it here. However, 
there are many persons of the belief that it is 
impossible to have too much of a good thing, 
and most decidedly asparagus is entitled to 
come under that head. 



I GO A-MARKETING 87 

Shall I tell you of three little dinners and 
how to make them grow ? Give ear, then, 
and you may hear. The first shall have a 
foundation of tomato soup. Now please 
don't make a wry face and begin to say un- 
kind things about tomato soup having a past 
until you have heard me through ; for I want 
to tell you of an economical and really deli- 
cious way of making this soup that is not 
known to every one. Just at this season 
almost all housekeepers will be sure to have 
on hand two or three kinds of cooked vege- 
tables, little scraps of each I mean. Now, 
suppose the list to comprise three new pota- Savory 
toes, boiled, half a cupful of string beans and Tomato Soup 
about the same quantity of green peas ; to 
these, or to any others which you may prefer 
to use, should be added two raw onions finely 
minced and a handful of chopped parsley. 
Put them into a saucepan with two ounces of 
butter, a sprinkling of pepper and salt, and, 
after they have simmered for ten minutes, add 
a can of tomatoes. Season then with a tea- 
spoonful of whole allspice, a tablespoonfiil of 
sugar, and more pepper and salt if need be, 
and cook slowly for half an hour. At the 
end of that time strain through a fine hair 



88 I GO A-MARKETING 

sieve, put back on the stove and thicken 
with a scant teaspoonful of cornstarch mixed 
with a teaspoonful of melted butter. Have 
little sippets of fried bread in the soup tureen, 
pour the soup over them and serve. And 
there you have a soup possessed of all the 
flavors that make a tomato soup worth the eat- 
ing, while it has none of the heaviness of 
soup made with a rich stock. 

And the next dish for dinner No. i shall 
be of dainty little lamb chops broiled to a 
turn. Have in the centre of the platter a 
mound of mashed potato, lean the chops 
against it, and serve in this way. 

With the chops serve string beans. Boil 
^them till tender in salted water, drain them 
and put into a saucepan with two ounces 
of butter and two tablespoonfuls of cream to a 
quart of beans. Cook them for three minutes 
and send to the table very hot. 
Asparagus It would be a sin and a shame to arrange a 
dinner at this time of year without providing 
for the serving of asparagus. Even though 
the dinner is to consist of one course only, 
that course should be of asparagus. But in 
the dinner which we are now planning it is to 
make its appearance at the third course as a 



Salad 



I GO A-MARKETING 89 

salad. It must be boiled till quite tender, 
then chilled for three or four hours on the ice, 
cut into inch lengths, and served with a dress- 
ing of the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs 
beaten up with three tablespoonfuls of oil, two 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar, a saltspoonful of 
salt and the same quantity of French mustard. 

The last course shall include strawberries 
served in some way. Have them plain, with 
sugar and cream, and serve with them narrow 
strips of delicate puff paste ; or make little 
tartlets, and when they are done lift the cov- 
ers and put a teaspoonful of whipped cream 
into each. 

And the cost of dinner No. i ? Well, at 
the price of " comestible wares " at this season, 
this dinner should not cost over one dollar for 
four persons. And really it will not require 
very close figuring to bring it within that sum. 

But if that seems too small an amount to 
expend for a dinner intended to give pleasure 
to four persons, there will be no trouble in 
planning one to cost rather more. And for Bisque of 
the first course let us have a bisque of clams. Clama 
Get a quart of clams and a small piece of veal, 
about a pound of it. Cook the veal in a little 
more than a pint of water and the liquor 



9° I GO A-MARKETING 

drained from the clams. Season with one 
onion, a sprig of parsley, a bay leaf, salt, and 
white pepper. Cook very slowly for one 
hour, then strain and again place it in 
the kettle; rub a couple of tablespoonfuls 
of butter with an equal amount of flour and 
add to the soup when boiling. Chop up 
the clams very fine, and put them into the 
soup ; let it boil for five minutes and then add 
half a pint of cream. Heat thoroughly, but 
don't let it boil after adding the cream, and 
serve. And after you have partaken of this 
I '11 warrant you will be ready to declare 
that Grimod de la Reyniere had this especial 
kind of potage in mind when he said : " Soup 
is not only the commencement of a feast, but 
gives an idea of what is to follow." 

And its close follower in this instance 
should be some delicious little ducklings 
roasted. With the ducklings have new pota- 
toes, from Bermuda or from the South, 
plainly boiled. And have, too, some aspara- 
Asparagua gus — asparagus tops with cheese. Cut the 
Tops with tender part of the asparagus into inch lengths 
and cook in salted water till fairly tender; 
then drain and toss it about over the fire in 
a frying-pan with a little butter. Dress it on 



I GO A-MARKETING 91 

a vegetable dish, spread the surface smoothly 
with butter into which has been kneaded an 
equal quantity of grated Parmesan cheese and 
just a suspicion of cayenne pepper. Brown 
as quickly as you can in a piping hot oven, 
and serve. 

And now for the salad. Does one of let- Lettuce 
tuce strike you favorably ? If so, prepare it ^"'""^ ""** 
with a French dressing, as you always do, but 
after it is dressed sprinkle over it all some 
finely chopped chives. My word for it, 
you '11 find this a great improvement over the 
ordinary lettuce salad. 

A tempting dessert with which to wind up Frozen 
this dinner would be frozen strawberries with Strawberries 
whipped cream. Let me tell you how to pre- 
pare the dish, and see what you think about 
it. Make a syrup of a third of a pint of sugar 
and a pint of water. Into the syrup put a 
quart of fine ripe strawberries and let boil 
for five minutes. Then freeze the mixture. 
Whip half a pint of cream, work it into the 
strawberries, and serve in as dainty a fashion 
as possible. 

And the amount of money required to fur- 
nish forth a table with dinner No. 2 ? Not a 
cent over two dollars for four persons. 



92 I GO A-MARKETING 

But, for fear that to many that may seem 
too small an amount for just the kind of 
dinner they want to give, I will try again. 
Since we have decided that asparagus must 
appear in some form at every dinner while its 
season lasts, we will start dinner No. 3 with 
Asparagus asparagus soup. This is made by cooking the 
'' tender parts of the asparagus in salted water 
for a few minutes. Before they get quite ten- 
der drain till dry and cold. If there are two 
bunches of asparagus put them into a saucepan 
with four ounces of butter, two finely chopped 
onions, a lump of sugar, and a little white 
pepper. Moisten with a pint of white broth 
and let cook for ten minutes. Then rub 
through a sieve, heat again and serve. 

After the soup, crabs — soft-shell crabs 
dipped in beaten egg and crumbs and fried. 
Serve nothing but tartar sauce with them. 
Then have a couple of cunning little spring 
Green Peas chickens broiled. Have new potatoes chopped 
with Mint ^^^ baked in cream served with the chickens, 
and have also new green peas. Try boiling 
with them a small bunch of mint and a small 
onion, both of which are to be removed 
before the peas are served. You will find 
that the peas have acquired a delightful flavor 



I GO A-MARKETING 93 

from their contact with the other vegetables. 
Of course salt and pepper and butter are to 
be added as when they are cooked in the ordi- 
nary way. 

For a salad have some hothouse tomatoes 
peeled and sliced ; lay them on a flat dish, and 
on each slice heap a little chopped lettuce 
mixed with mayonnaise. 

Let us borrow the dessert from dinner 

No. 2 to put the finishing touch to this last 

dinner. I don't know a better one, but if you 

*** . - - 

do there 's nothing to prevent your usmg it. 

And, do your best, if you are to serve 
dinner No. 3 for four persons you cannot 
make it cost over three dollars. 

Are you satisfied, now, that I know how to 
make dinners grow ? 



JUNE 

"For her oivn breakfast she'll project a scheme. 
Nor take her tea •without a stratagem.''' 



" ^^^ LAMS are good and plentiful now," 
ciama West ■ g^jj ^j^g flg^ dealer one day, and as 

island style V_ J t ■ ^ r r ■ \ 

^^-^ I was m the frame of mind to take 
him at his word I hastily ran over in my 
mind the various ways in which this delecta- 
ble fish may be prepared, the while I ordered 
from him the quantity I thought I could use. 
It does n't take very long to sum up the gastro- 
nomical possibilities of the clam that are cher- 
ished in the minds of most housekeepers, you 
will admit. But, with time and opportunity 
favoring, there is room for expansion of ideas 
with regard to clams. For instance, this is 
one way to expand : Poach, say, a pint of them 
in their own liquor, then drain off the liquor, 
adding to the clams milk thickened with egg 
yolks and seasoned with pepper and salt ; 
forget economy and put in the butter you 
know it requires to make the flavor perfect, 
and on top of all have some tiny rice cro- 
quettes. You can't know till you try it just 
what this dish may reveal served at breakfast. 



I GO A-MARKETING 95 

But I will not spoil the story by telling you in 
advance. If, however, it 's for luncheon that 
you would be thinking of having them cooked 
in this way, add the juice of an onion to 
them. 

If you trust to me so far as to adopt the fore- Clam and 
going way of cooking clams you certainly will i?''f/^'^'" 
try this next way of preparing them at the 
slightest provocation. Have as many as you 
like and chop them. Add to them an equal 
quantity of chopped boiled lobster. Sprinkle 
in some parsley, also chopped, and butter to 
the amount above recommended. Season 
with white pepper and salt, and with the mix- 
ture fill some of the deepest clam shells, 
sprinkle bread crumbs over the top and brown 
in a hot oven. This may be counted on at 
any time for a luncheon dish when you are 
planning to go some persons who have enter- 
tained you at least one better. 

Before I forget it I am going to tell you of Stuffed 
a dish that to my sorrow is rather uncommon, " ® .^ 
even among those who think they dine well. 
It 's nothing less than a stuflfed, baked cucum- 
ber — that is, those are the essentials of the 
dish. The potentials are to be classified by 
you after you have partaken of it. Cut the 



9S I GO A-MARKETING 

cucumbers in two lengthwise without peeling 
them, scoop out all the seeds, and fill to heap- 
ing each half with a highly seasoned mixture 
of bread crumbs ; moisten with melted butter 
and brown in a hot oven. Vary this stuffing 
at your own sweet will — add a few chopped 
olives or some chopped pimientos — Spanish 
sweet peppers you know — but have bread 
crumbs enough to insure the dish getting 
browned in shape. 
ffied If the idea of cooking cucumbers assimi- 
Cucumbers lates itself harmoniously with your ideas of 
gastronomy you may not hesitate to try a 
dish of fried cucumbers. And don't let any 
one infect your mind with the idea that they are 
especially indigestible. They 're not. Peel 
them first, then slice them into quarter-inch 
slices, say, then dip in beaten egg, then in 
crumbs, and then fry to a delicate brown in a 
little butter. Try either way of cooking the 
cucumbers with a tender spring chicken 
broiled. For if you are not deprived of your 
rights nowadays you should be finding " broil- 
ers " in good condition and not too high in 
price. You see of game there is little to be 
said in the Eastern markets during this 
month ; so if you are trying to do the hand- 



I GO A-MARKETING 97 

some thing in the bird line you Ve not much 
of a list from which to make a selection. To 
be sure you have a right to inquire at market 
for brant just now, come to think of it. You 
will be apt to find them, and in good condi- 
tion, too. Roasted shall we say? With 
them new potatoes of course. Don't tell me 
you can't afford them, I know better. And 
you can also afford to secure some new sum- 
mer squash to go with the roasted brant. 
Don't ask me where it comes from. I only 
know that in every up-to-date market it is on 
sale. So are young, sweet little carrots that 
appeal to you for a white cream sauce like 
that you serve with cauliflower. 

By now you may reasonably be ordering 
blackberries if you are longing for a change. 
But my advice is to stick to the strawberry 
while it will stick to you. By the way, if you 
are to " do up " strawberries, get the first 
" natives " that come to town. Get them, you 
know, before they are soft from overripeness, 
and next winter when set on your table just 
as they are, or with the syrup of them jellied 
with a bit of gelatine, you will see the wisdom 
of being forehanded with them. 



98 I GO A-MARKETING 

" Give us breakfasts ; tell us housekeepers 
what we can put before our families for the 
first meal of the day in summer that shall 
drive away the morning sulks." 

Thus did a matron young neither in years 
nor in experience beseech me as I set out for 
market one day. And while I was parleying 
with the marketman as to the ways and means 
and the whys and wherefores of things edible 
that plaintive " Give us breakfasts " rang so 
insistently in my ears that I could pay no 
attention to viands essentially suitable for 
later meals, but fell to thinking and planning 
breakfasts which should be antidotes — anti- 
dotes for that ill which more than any other 
human ailment is strengthened by recognition, 
the " morning sulks." 

And my first definite plan took shape in 
this wise : Cherries, for this is the month far 
excellence for that delicious fruit, cherries with 
some green leaves piled upon cracked ice in 
such a manner that the sight of them re- 
freshes, while to taste of them leads one to 
think "All's well with the world." And 
then, to follow, there must be croquettes of 
fish ; all kinds are so abundant now that it is 
only a case of paying one's money and taking 



I GO A-MARKETING 99 

one's choice. But whatever fish is chosen, 
the croquettes should be smaller than those 
for use at luncheon or dinner, for the eye is 
repelled at breakfast-time by sight of large 
portions. With croquettes the daintiest and 
lightest parsley omelette imaginable should be 
served, it seems to me, and there you have a 
simple breakfast, easy of accomplishment, but 
one sure to be appreciated by King Sulks 
himself. 

My second plan, when it assumes tangible 
shape, shall be Hke this : Watermelons, not 
cut up into ungainly chunks with juice and 
seeds playing at hide-and-seek in one's plate, 
but with the pretty pink portion cut into two- iced 
inch cubes, say, with all the seeds removed, Watermelon 
and sent to table after being well cooled, fan- 
cifully piled on shaven ice. If you don't 
mind a little fuss and bother, you may after it 
is cut up sprinkle the melon well with pow- 
dered sugar, put it into the freezer and frappe 
but not freeze it, and then send it to table. 
To the palates of many of this day and gen- 
eration watermelon well chilled comes as a 
boon, for the best of men now and then are 
afflicted with a thirst these warm mornings 
which nothing save ice-water seems to quench, 



loo I GO A-MARKETING 

but the physicians and moralists have held 
forth at such length on the subject that one 
feels like a guilty thing upon taking a drink 
of cold water before breaking fast. Now you 
are going to ask what will be quite good 
enough to follow watermelon, and for answer 
Fried Chicken I shall recommend chicken, or fowl, boiled the 
with Cream previous day, and cut into neat pieces, then 
browned well in butter, with hot cream poured 
over it just before it is sent to the table. If 
you want a delightful adjunct for the chicken, 
let it be cold asparagus, with lemon juice and 
salt sprinkled over it. If you have never 
partaken of cold asparagus at breakfast, there 
is a new pleasure in store for you, for good as 
this vegetable is hot at dinner or luncheon, it 
seems especially apt when served cold in the 
morning. 

Quite as attractive, and simpler in prepara- 
tion, perhaps, you will find my third recipe 
for an antidote, it goes something like this : 
To begin with, blackberries, growing better 
and more abundant every day ; to follow the 
blackberries smoked beef tossed in hot cream 
which has been seasoned with cayenne pepper, 
and thickened a trifle with corn starch, and — 
as a complement for the smoked beef you will 



I GO A-MARKETING loi 

desire something sour — try watercress dressed 
with lemon juice and salt, unless you are so 
enamored of tomatoes that you prefer them to 
any other vegetable in the morning, now. 

My next (really I don't mean this to read 
like an enigma) idea if you choose to put it 
into action will cause your breakfast table to 
answer to this description : Raspberries, sweet- 
ened a bit, tossed in whipped cream and put 
into paper cases which come on purpose for 
the carrying out of dainty table schemes, and 
then chilled on the ice for at least an hour 
before serving. Trouble? Oh, yes, there's 
some trouble involved, but your reward will 
be swift and sure, my word for it. Something 
exceptionally dainty and palate-appealing must 
follow the raspberries so prepared, and how 
does the thought of veal, minced finely and 
seasoned perfectly, with poached eggs on top, 
coincide with your idea of the fitness of 
things ? 

Very soon we shall have currants in abun- 
dance, and it has always seemed to me that 
when one is to have ham for breakfast they go 
particularly well for a first course. And the 
ham is entitled to different treatment in sum- 
mer from that which it receives in the cold 



102 I GO A-MARKETING 

Ham Toast weather. For instance, just now if you 
have slices of toast and sprinkle lightly 
over them grated ham mixed with grated 
cheese, and then put them in a hot oven till 
the cheese is dissolved, your family will be 
your debtor to the extent of one new and dis- 
tinct gastronomical emotion. 

Gooseberry You will soon be able to get desirable goose- 
Cream bgrries in the market, and while the average 
housekeeper will be engaged in reckoning their 
possibilities if" baked in a pie," you will, if you 
but follow my advice, cook them in sugar till 
tender, strain through a sieve, cool the puree, 
then boil it down and cool once more, that it 
may be in readiness for the next morning's 
breakfast, served with whipped cream flavored 
with lemon. You will find that this will pave 
the way excellently for a fine bluefish, properly 
broiled, and flanked by a tomato omelet. 

It is not in my province at present to pre- 
scribe the diflferent cakes, muffins, and rolls 
that should accompany the foregoing dishes, 
for every cook-book sets forth an array of 
such recipes from which to select one for every 
day in the year. Neither do I presume tb 
suggest to any woman in what she shall be 
clothed. No, when I go into the subject of 



I GO A-MARKETING 103 

dress for the breakfast table it will be to ex- 
ploit my ideas upon the way that men should 
array themselves. 



Whatever other faults the out-of-season 
strawberry may have it cannot be said of it 
that it induces satiety. And I wonder if the 
season of " natives " could be long enough to 
have that effect on the palate. Probably. But 
this is n't the place to go into a discussion of 
that side of the question. 

Serving strawberries is or should be an 
every-day occurrence while the season lasts. 
I have told you in other places of two or three 
ways of serving them that I hope you found 
worthy a place among your collection of re- 
cipes for dainty dishes. But I believe I 've strawberry 
said nothing about strawberry fritters. And ^"^^'^^ 
in case you have never tried them let me sug- 
gest that you have them soon prepared 
in this way : Get the very largest straw- 
berries you can find. Take off the hulls and 
cover them entirely with any sort of marma- 
lade, preferably apricot, then roll them in 
macaroon crumbs, dip them one at a time into 
the lightest frying batter you know how to 



I04 I GO A-MARKETING 

make and fry them in very hot fat. Drain 
and roll them in powdered sugar before serv- 
ing. A really delicious dish you will find 
these fritters, quite good enough to be served 
at dessert for the very best dinner you know 
how to arrange. 

It comes to pass sometimes, you know, 
that one will have on hand a pint or so of 
strawberries that can hardly be called -passie, 
still they have lost their pristine freshness and 
Strawberry show symptoms of becoming soft. Well, the 
Pudding ^^^^ ^^y ^^ serve them is to heat them through 
in a little syrup, not letting them lose their 
shape or their color. Then put them into a 
pudding dish and cover them with a half-inch 
layer of bread-crumbs. Make a custard of 
four eggs and a quart of milk, seasoning it 
with a little grated nutmeg, pour into the 
dish with the berries and breadcrumbs and 
bake for half an hour. It may be served 
either hot or cold. And you will have reason 
to be pleased with yourself for having turned 
out an appetizing sweet, and one that will 
help you to foster that pet belief of every 
housekeeper, namely, that you are past mis- 
tress in the art of domestic economy. 

Another dainty sweet can be made by mash- 



I GO A-MARKETING 105 

ing a quart of strawberries with half a pint or so Strawberry 

of sugar, and then letting them stand for half an ''^"^ 

hour while you are making a syrup of half a 

pint of sugar and the same quantity of water. 

When this syrup has boiled twenty minutes 

mix with it an ounce of gelatine dissolved in 

half a pint of water. Take the syrup from 

the fire and strain the strawberries through a 

fine sieve into it. Stand the bowl containing 

the mixture on the ice and whip briskly for 

five minutes, then add the whipped whites of 

four eggs and keep right on beating till it has 

the grace to thicken. Then turn it into a 

number of small moulds or one large one. 

When it is to be served unmould on the 

prettiest dish you own, sprinkle powdered 

sugar over the top and pour a little whipped 

cream round in a fanciful shape for a border. 

If you are going to make a strawberry strawberry 
salad, and I think you will after I tell you *"'"'' 
how, you should have the strawberries as fresh 
as possible. Cut them in halves, and if they 
are the bouncer variety cut them in quarters. 
Put them into a basin with as much sugar as 
you think they will need; to one quart of 
berries add a wineglass of brandy, a table- 
spoonful of strained lemon juice, and then 



io6 I GO A-MARKETING 

pack in ice till they are all but frozen. Dish 
up in a pile when serving and put a border of 
whipped cream round the salad. 
Pear Salad A salad of almost any kind of fruit makes 
an appetizing dish for luncheon or for dinner. 
One of pears is really delicious if the pears are 
peeled, cored, and cut in thin slices, laid in a 
dish, sprinkled ever so lightly with powdered 
sugar, and have a few drops of brandy or rum 
poured over them. Of course this salad, like 
all others made of fruit, needs to be thoroughly 
chilled before it is served, to have its appetiz- 
ing qualities at their best. 
Pineapple If a pineapple salad seems to you a fitting 
dessert for the particular luncheon you have 
in mind, it is easily prepared. Be sure that 
the pineapples, two of them we '11 say, are 
perfectly ripe; shred them thoroughly and 
throw away the core. Put the shredded fruit 
into a deep glass dish, and pour over it a good 
half-pint of powdered sugar mixed with a 
tablespoon each of brandy and cura9oa. This 
salad should stand for about three hours before 
serving, so that the sugar may become quite 
dissolved. 

And a salad of several kinds of fruits makes 
an altogether charming dish. Try it some 



Salad 



I GO A-MARKETING 107 

time. Have half a pound of perfectly ripe Salad of 
cherries, remove the stalks and stones ; ^^''f'' "' 

1 ■ r 11 Fruits 

have the same quantity of currants, but have 

a part of them red and the other part white, 

just to make the dish a bit prettier, and have 

a quarter of a pound each of raspberries and 

strawberries. Sprinkle over the fruit plenty 

of powdered white sugar and three tablespoons 

of brandy. Shake about lightly that the 

sugar may dissolve before it is served. 

Some day when you have been so fortunate Crystallized 
as to get some particularly large and good /faspbemes 
raspberries, fix them up in this way : Hull 
them, of course, and then dip them one at a 
time in the beaten white of an egg mixed with 
a tablespoonful of water. As you take the 
raspberries from the egg roll them, one at a 
time, in powdered sugar and put at short dis- 
tances from each other on a sheet of white 
paper to become perfectly dry, which will take 
two or three hours. When dry keep on ice 
till served for dessert. And a dainty dessert 
you will find it, my word for it. Strawberries 
and blackberries, also, may be treated in the 
same way, but I doubt if they will find the 
favor that will be shown the raspberries. 

And a raspberry cream is pretty sure to be 



Cream 



io8 I GO A-MARKETING 

Raspberry a favorite dish in almost any company. It is 
Cream ^^^ simple, too. Just press the raspberries 
through a fine sieve to remove the seeds ; 
mix in well half a pint of cream and sufficient 
sugar to sweeten. Beat it well, and as fast as 
froth rises skim it off and put it on a hair 
sieve. Put the cream that is left in a glass 
dish, pile the whipped cream on the top, 
mounting it as high as possible, and serve. 
Banana Another delicious fruit cream is made by 
pressing half a dozen bananas through a fine 
hair sieve into a basin, mixing with the fruit 
one and one-half pints of cream, flavored with 
vanilla, and then passing the whole through a 
fine sieve. Freeze the cream a little — till it 
just thickens — and then add to it a pint of 
cream, two tablespoonfuls of sugar and a wine- 
glassful of Madeira. Keep in the freezer 
for two or three hours before serving. 
Peach This you will find is also a tempting way 
in which to make a peach cream, but if the 
peaches are not perfectly ripe it will be a good 
idea to stew them for two or three minutes in a 
little syrup. The peaches, of course, will need 
more sugar than the bananas do, but no hard 
and fast rule can be given for the amount — 
just sweeten them according to your judgment. 



Cream 



I GO A-MARKETING 109 

Have you noticed that with all I 've had to 
say about strawberries herein, not once have 
I quoted Dr. Boteler's remark concerning 
them ? And yet I 've heard it said that a 
woman finds it as impossible to refrain from 
mentioning the famous saying when writing 
about strawberries, if only half a dozen lines, 
as does a man to omit all mention of Izaak 
Walton when he has anything to say about 
going a-fishing. 



JULY 

" Unlike my subject noiu shall be my song ; 
It shall be •witty, and it shan't be long." 



IT was with the thought of Hortensia's 
garden party weighing somewhat heav- 
ily on my mind that I made my cus- 
tomary tour " all on a market day," for she 
had beseeched me with tears in her voice to 
plan for her a list of appetizing dishes to put 
before her guests which should not be so 
elaborate as though meant for a grand dinner, 
nor yet so simple as if intended for the 
refreshment of a Sunday-school picnic. 

Hortensia would, I felt sure, see to it that 
the piazzas, grounds, and tent-like buffet were 
so decorated and adorned that one would at 
once conclude that Flora herself had taken a 
personal interest in the appointments, and I 
firmly resolved that, come what would, my 
part of the programme should be carried out 
in such a manner that reasonable grounds 
should be furnished for the supposition that 
no less a person than Epicurus had had a 
finger in the pie. Therefore it was with a 
full appreciation of the responsibility I had 



I GO A-MARKETING m 

assumed that I opened negotiations with the 
marketman. 

As all the world knows, a garden party 
would n't be much of an affair without game, 
and fortunately for the hosts and hostesses at 
such merrymakings, there are in market at Roasted 
this season now fine doe birds, which may be '^°^ ^"^'^^ 
seasoned with a little salt, a suspicion of 
Madeira, roasted in a quick oven, and de- 
pended on to furnish delight, when thoroughly 
cooled, to the most captious of guests. 

Another delightful manner of serving game Game Tarts 
is in the form of tarts — squab or pigeon 
tarts; line the tart moulds with paste, and 
then fill with the breasts only of the birds, 
adding a few slices of mushrooms and moisten- 
ing with a liquor made by boiling the bones 
of the birds in a little water well seasoned with 
salt, a bit of pepper, and a spoonful or two of 
sherry. Cover the tarts with the paste, have 
perfectly cold, and unmould before serving. 

Just now one may find tender and tooth- Turkey in 
some young turkeys in the market stalls, *'"" 
waiting to do duty at any event to which they 
may be called, and for the particular occasion 
in which we are interested at this instant there 
can be no better way of serving them than by 



112 I GO A-MARKETING 

boiling till tender and then cutting into small 
pieces, moulding them with the help of aspic 
jelly into shapes so attractive that one longs 
to learn if they can be quite as gratifying to 
the palate as to the eye. And, by the way, 
what a godsend aspic jelly is in the prepara- 
tion of dishes to be served cold ! 
Beef Tongue Another cold dish which is looked upon as 
being a sort of commonplace standby is of 
boiled tongue, but I have found that it is easily 
raised to a level bordering on the ideal if pre- 
pared in this way : Boil the beef tongue till 
tender in water which has been highly sea- 
soned with vegetables, herbs, and spice; re- 
move the skin, brush the tongue with beaten 
egg, strew it thickly with bread-crumbs, and 
bake for half an hour in a hot oven, basting 
frequently with port wine. Let it get per- 
fectly cold before slicing and have the slices 
as thin as possible. 

Near to the tongue, as a relish for it, and in- 
deed for all of the foregoing dishes, one's sense 
of the fitness of things approves the idea of 
having crisp, thin slices of toast, sprinkled with 
the finest little bits of green peppers imaginable, 
and masked with a thin layer of mayonnaise. 

In fact, one, if not the best, way to serve 



I GO A-MARKETING 113 

salads at an outdoor festivity, is upon thin 
slices of toast of white or graham bread, as 
one chooses. For instance, a lettuce and 
anchovy salad made by shredding the lettuce 
and cutting the anchovies in two and dressing 
with lemon juice and a dash of cayenne, with 
the yolks of hard-boiled eggs finely minced, 
seems to call for just such a tiny bit of toast 
as one gets in this way of serving, to carry out 
one's idea of perfection in little things. 

And after I had decided that the salads at 
Hortensia's garden party should be so served, 
it was quite natural that the idea of sandwiches 
should suggest itself to my mind ; but before 
the idea had time to really assume a definite 
shape I hastily but conclusively rebelled 
against the prospect of seeing those time- 
honored edibles set forth for the delectation 
of Hortensia's guests in the guise of the com- 
mon or restaurant variety. And this is the French 
way I overcame what bade fair to be a trouble- Sandwiches 
some difficulty : Rolls, deliciously fresh French 
rolls, with a circular piece of the top crust 
removed and kept whole, while all the soft 
part of the roll was scooped out to make 
room for a filling of chicken, lobster, or sar- 
dines, after which the little cover was put back 



114 I GO A-MARKETING 

into place, and the comfort and joy of the 
partaker was an assured thing. 

After the sandwich scheme was fully ar- 
ranged, it seemed as though the " substan- 
tial " were well looked out for, and that I must 
be giving a thought to the fruits which were to 
make glad the senses of those bidden to the 
feast. Not any great amount of deep think- 
ing was required to make a selection, however, 
for there was an abundance at hand from which 
to choose ; there were plums, juicy and .sweet, 
of richest hues — purple, red, and green, 
and others of the most tempting golden color 
imaginable, and certainly no well-furnished 
table could afford to be without either speci- 
men. Grapes, too, there were in an infinite 
variety, but for Hortensia's party I chose only 
black Hamburgs and Muscats. Of course, I 
knew she must have peaches, and I spent a 
weary hour in trying to find some that tasted 
' as well as they looked, but my labor was in 
Musk Melon vain. As a compensation for this disappoint- 
Jei/y ment, however, I found cantaloupes possessing 
a flavor which can only be expressed by the 
words " divinely perfect." And I found, too, 
delicious little musk melons to be prepared in 
this way : Slice the melon, removing both 



I GO A-MARKETING 115 

rind and seeds, put in a preserving pan with a 
little sugar, and stew to a marmalade ; rub it 
through a sieve, dissolve in it a sufficient 
amount of gelatine, and when quite cool mix 
with it stiffly whipped cream, flavored with 
a litde essence or liqueur, as one likes. 

Cakes and ices, of course, are as important 
to the great and unqualified success of a gar- 
den party as are the guests, and of the former 
I decided that the varieties known as " Mad- 
eleines" and "petits fours" would be most 
acceptable to all concerned, while of the latter 
there could be no question as to the desirability 
of mousse with peaches, chocolat parfait, and 
milk sherbet. 

Of quite as much importance as either of 
the articles mentioned in the foregoing para- 
graph are the bonbons, and the advice which 
I have bestowed upon Hortensia in regard to 
them I repeat here for the benefit of any who 
may care to follow it, namely : " Costly thy 
bonbons as thy purse can buy." 

For out-of-door feasting plenty of drinks Moss Rose 
should be provided; "cups," whether of claret, 
hock, or champagne, should be made on the 
spot and not prepared beforehand, as the taste 
of stale soda water is absolutely objectionable. 



ii6 I GO A-MARKETING 

Cider, if iced, is really delicious, while a drink 
which the English find highly refreshing is 
called "moss rose," and is made of equal 
quantities of tea, coffee, and " cup," either of 
the champagne or claret brand. 



I have a story to tell you. It has nothing 
of mystery in it, neither need it, necessarily, 
prove harrowing ; it is far from being roman- 
tic, and there is n't a glimmer of sentiment in 
it. It has n't a moral ; if it had I shouldn't 
relate it. No, it is just true ; that 's the best 
of it and it 's the worst of it, too, as you will 
admit, because it is n't without a parallel. 

It — my story — is of a very charming old 
farmhouse situated " near to Nature's heart." 

At this farmhouse was gathered together a 
small company of people known to the natives 
of that section of the country as "summer 
boarders." To themselves this same company 
was known as a band of " nature-worshippers." 
One day they were all seated in the shade on 
a little knoll, each one trying to outdo the 
others in the matter of rhapsodizing the "eter- 
nal hills," the " books to be found in brooks," 
etc., when up spake one of their number who 



I GO A-MARKETING 117 

had hitherto been silent : " Oh, I would give 
all the delights that this place possesses for 
one hour in the company of an ice-chest 
stocked as it could be with the good things in 
market now." 

Of course this was philistinism of the rank- 
est sort, and it savored of treason, too. But 
the offender held her head high and parried 
well, if the truth must be told, the rebukes of 
her hearers. The mischief was done, how- 
ever ; the seeds of discontent fell upon fertile 
ground, made receptive by a long diet of 
corned beef, curd cheese and "plenty of milk." 

The next morning every conveyance the 
farmer-landlord could muster was pressed into 
service to take his guests to the station. 
Every one of them had received a sudden call 
to Boston. But none confided to his or her 
neighbor the exact nature of this post haste 
summons to the Hub, and when the train 
pulled into the station they scattered in differ- 
ent directions, hurriedly saying to each other : 
"See you on the 4.30 train this afternoon; 
good-by." 

And sure enough they were all aboard 
the train as agreed, each of them with an arm- 
ful of bundles. Nobody volunteered any in- 



ii8 I GO A-MARKETING 

formation as to what his or her bundles con- 
tained, and nobody asked any questions. 
They simply ignored the existence of them 
and talked of how good it would seem to get 
back to Peaceful Valley once more, with its 
quietness and vast opportunities for re- 
flection. 

That night each of them had a private 
audience with the landlady and the next 
day at dinner was seen the result of the trip 
to Boston and of the said private audience. 

First of all was brought in some delicious 
Spanish mackerel, broiled to a turn. These 
were furnished by Professor A., author of the 
celebrated work " Does Angling Produce 
Insanity?" He said that of all the fish in 
market these seemed to him just now the 
most desirable. 
Oyster Plant With the fish were served some of the finest 
with Cream oyster plants that ever found their way into 
the Boston market. They were cut in pieces, 
boiled in salted water till tender, then drained 
and served with a tablespoonful or so of melt- 
ed butter and cream enough to cover them, 
having just a dash of pepper in it. A simple 
way of preparing them and yet quite good 
enough for anybody, as you will see upon 



I GO A-MARKETING 119 

trying it. My word for it, the Peaceful Valley 
boarders thought it a dish fit for the gods. 

After the mackerel had been discussed and 
despatched and Professor A. had accepted 
with a great deal of grace the vote of thanks 
presented to* him, the game was brought in. 
This course was offered for the delectation of 
his fellow-boarders by Professor B., author of 
" Birds I Have Met." 

There were delicious chicken grouse that 
had cost the professor quite a pretty penny, 
viz. : two dollars and a half the pair ; and 
plover of various kinds that were to be had 
for four dollars the dozen. 

And this is the way the grouse were cooked : 
After the feet, necks, and pinions had been re- Grouse 
moved their bodies were divided into three '''^ 
pieces and put in a stewpan with the pinions 
and a little chopped bacon ; after frying a bit 
some salt and pepper were introduced. Then 
were added two tablespoonfuls of white wine 
for each bird ; then the birds were taken off 
and cooled; after which they were arranged 
with the wine in a pie dish with hard-boiled 
eggs cut in quarters amongst them, covered 
with the best pastry crust that the landlady 
knew how to make, and it was pretty good, 



I20 I GO A-MARKETING 

really. In fact the dish turned out a great 
success, as the result of a good many confer- 
ences between the donator of the birds and 
the cook. The Professor had bought, the 
day before, the latest and best thing in the 
way of a cookery book, and after carefully 
reading it had come to the conclusion that 
this recipe for cooking grouse would be more 
easily mastered by the landlady than any 
other. The beauty of a grouse pie, too, as 
everybody knows, lies in its being just as good 
cold as it is hot. 
Roasted The plovers were dressed, and with a pinch 
of salt and a bit of pepper put inside of them 
and the thinnest possible slice of fat salt pork 
tied over their breasts, were roasted for about 
twelve minutes in a hot oven. 

And with the game was served some of the 
choicest stalks of celery that it has ever been 
the lot of mortal to enjoy at this time of 
year. 

As for the fruit that was donated for this 
special occasion you would consider it a treat 
to hear the landlady tell of it, and of the sen- 
sations she experienced at seeing such a vari- 
ety when the " apples on the Early Harvest 



Plover 



I GO A-MARKETING 121 

tree on the south side of the orchard wall 
were only just beginning to get mellow." 

There were plums of almost every color 
under the sun ; there were nectarines, the 
mere sight of which would make one's mouth 
to water ; there were delicious Delaware grapes 
and some little white grapes called the Lady 
de Coverley, that come from California. They 
are just as good, too, as one would expect 
from the name that has been given them. 
There was a curiosity in the shape of a banana 
cantaloupe, and there were all sorts of other 
melons, but the melon par excellence was 
what is known as the Montreal cantaloupe. 
They are raised on the banks of the St. Law- 
rence River, and simply refuse to grow in any 
other locality. Gardeners in other places have 
done everything to induce it to become natur- 
alized, but all to no purpose. The particular 
specimen that found its way to the Peaceful Val- 
ley weighed just twenty-one pounds, and cost 
the purchaser I2.50. But it was n't extrava- 
gance to buy twenty-one pounds of such 
deliciousness, even if it had cost twice that 
sum. 

And what do you suppose these nature- 
worshippers did after partaking of all the 



122 I GO A-MARKETING 

good things herein described and set forth? 
Well, they went out and sat under the trees 
and began to talk of what Thoreau said about 
huckleberries ! 

I came away then. 



As a refreshing entr^acte let us dwell on the 
subject of ices. Let us have something more 
than just the ordinary way of making every- 
day routine ice creams. We will say " ices " 
— they mean unutterable, indescribable things 
that tickle the palate and cool one 's very 
existence simultaneously. Though after all 
it may be well to talk a minute of ice creams — 
beginning with generalities. The first of these 
I have found is that the easiest and best ice 
cream is made by using one-third rich cream 
to two-thirds milk with sugar as desired. 
No eggs and no cooking. If it is frozen 
smoothly it is perfect. This, however, is but 
the working plan — the flavoring and the 
moulding are to be arranged to suit yourself. 

However, if cream is not available, then 
eggs and milk in the proportion of eight eggs 
to one quart of milk may be used. This 
requires cooking like an ordinary custard. 



Ice Cream 



I GO A-MARKETING 123 

Sugar to your taste, but flour or cornstarch 
are to be left out, by all means. 

If you are using fresh fruits, such as pine- 
apple, peaches, strawberries and the like they 
should not be cooked but be added to the cream 
after it is frozen and just before it is packed. 
Candied fruit, fruit used for frozen puddings 
and the like, is usually soaked in brandy or 
rum before adding to the cream. At least, 
that 's the sort of treatment it gets from me. 

Just a word about coffee ice cream. For Coffee 
I don't think you will find this recipe any- 
where else. And it 's a pity you should n't 
know of it. Have then one pint of very 
strong coffee, a gill of brandy, one quart of 
cream and three pints of rich milk. Then 
freeze and be thankful whenever a hot day 
makes it possible for you to serve your coffee 
at dinner in this way. 

A great many people have a preference for 
sherbets and of these I have some charming 
things to say, for I appreciate a sherbet 
myself. There's a milk sherbet that suits Milk Sherbet 
me down to the ground. It is made of two 
quarts of milk, four cups of sugar, and the 
juice of six lemons. Also the whites whipped 
well of two or three or more eggs as you feel 



124 I GO A-MARKETING 

inclined to use them. Surely the lemons will 
curdle the milk. But don't let that disturb 
you. Put it in the freezer and go ahead. It 
will come out as right as right can be. 
Strawberry For a Strawberry sherbet made in this way 

Sherbet j j^ave a fondness that I am not ashamed to 
acknowledge anywhere : Sprinkle over one 
quart of strawberries half a pound of sugar ; 
let it stand three hours, then strain through a 
coarse cloth, squeezing hard. To this jitice 
add three pints of water, as much sugar as it 
seems to you to need, the juice of a lemon 
and freeze. 
Pineapple A pineapple sherbet is made in the same 

Sherbet way, though not as much sugar will be required 
probably. 
Peaoh And for a peach sherbet follow the same 

Sherbet directions, adding a wineglassful of brandy 
before freezing. 

Currant A currant sherbet is a deliciously refresh- 

Sherbet jj^g thjng to have either in anticipation 
or in reality on a hot day. Boil a quart 
of water and a pound of sugar to a 
syrup. Skim and stir with it a pint of fresh 
currant juice which has been heated with a 
little sugar. Let this cool thoroughly, then 
add the beaten whites of four eggs and freeze. 



I GO A-MARKETING 125 

For myself, I am quite through shying when 
anyone says artificial coloring in food — I 
have found the vegetable colorings as innoc- 
uous as so much water, and worth their weight 
in gold in cases like the present, namely the 
coloring of this currant sherbet. The only 
drawback about which is that of itself it will 
not be pretty to the eye — therefore hesitate 
not, but in with a few drops of carmine color- 
ing. 

A champagne ice is n't such a high-roller Champagne 
refreshment as it sounds. To begin with it 's Sf>B''>>et 
a rank solecism to freeze any but the most 
inexpensive of champagnes, and then you 
don't require many other good things for 
your ice — the champagne is enough in itself 
You just make a very strong and sweet lemon 
ade — a quart of it and half freeze it; then 
pour in the champagne and wholly freeze the 
mixture. Get the champagne into the freezer 
as soon as you can after it is opened before 
its volatile gas escapes. If you prefer a more 
hilarious refreshment just keep on with your 
use of intoxicants by adding after the cham- 
pagne a wineglassful of brandy. Also, if you 
like, you may add the beaten whites of eggs, 
ad libitum. 



126 I GO A-MARKETING 



Champagne While we are on the subject of frozen 

L. "".** champagne and the entering wedge has done 
Strawberries r & b o 

Its work let me speak a good word for cham- 
pagne with strawberries. Freeze together a 
quart of champagne and a pint of sugar syrup. 
Just at the last add one pint of strawberries 
which have been halved and quartered and 
marinaded in a little brandy and sugar for 
about fifteen minutes. Cherries used in this 
way will make you ready to declare that till 
you tried it you did n't know how to live. 
Claret A claret sherbet is even better than it 
Sherbet sounds if you make it in this way : Rub the 
peel of two oranges off with plenty of loaf 
sugar and then make a syrup of this sugar 
and a pint of water. When cool, stir in the 
juice of three oranges, a quart of claret, a 
tablespoonful of brandy and the whites of four 
eggs whipped to a stiff froth and freeze slowly. 
Sometimes there is used in this recipe the 
zest of lemon peel instead of oranges and then 
there is used some orange marmalade, heated 
and strained of course. Or any jelly which 
you may fancy goes in very harmoniously 
with this concoction. 

A kirsch sherbet is a delicacy that does n't 
put itself in the way of ordinary mortals every 



I GO A-MARKETING 127 

day in the week. That 's why its welcome is Kitsch 
a soulful one when it does appear. You have ^"^''^^^ 
a pint of chablis and a pint of any preferred 
fruit syrup, which you freeze. Then at the 
last there is added to it half a pint of kirschen- 
wasser. 

By the way, before I forget it, you may 
treat watermelon with the frozen cham- 
pagne exactly as prescribed hereinbefore for 
strawberries and champagne. 

All these are but a few of the ices familiar 
to expert cooks nowadays. But each one 
herein given is capable of so many variations 
that I am leaving that part of it to you. Do 
you know that I am saddened more and more 
every day as I contemplate the power that 
lies in suggestion and the stupidity of people 
who will not avail themselves of it? But 
this is not perhaps the sort of talk you look 
for in a book that has to do with the material 
things of life. Very well, we will cut it off. 



AUGUST 



" Ah, you flavor everything; you are the 'vanilla of society." 

ABOUT the only time when I am really 
anxious to have the right to vote is 
■" when some legislation tending toward 
the preservation of the lobster is on the 
docket. Then, if I had the opportunity, I 
should not only vote with both hands for a 
" close season " on that delectable shellfish, 
but I should lecture as long as I could get any 
one to listen to me, either on Boston Com- 
mon or in Faneuil Hall, in an endeavor to 
induce others, men and women, to vote with 
me. I believe I should even resort to bribery 
where I thought it would do — and I am a 
fair judge of individuals who don't require 
their " inducements " to be too heavily coated 
with sugar — in order to put it through. 

As matters are now there are almost as 
many ways for preparing lobster as there are 
lobsters in the sea, and in order to try them 
all you would better be about it before the 
supply is utterly exhausted, or some one in 
authority calls " time." 



I GO A-MARKETING 129 

For devilling lobsters I have a budget of DeuUied 
recipes, but this seems to be about the best ^°''®*®'' 
one in the lot: Split the lobster, after it is 
boiled, in two lengthwise, and put it into a 
baking-pan ; season with salt and cayenne, and 
pour over it plenty of melted butter, and bake 
in a hot oven for five minutes. Just before 
serving spread over it a sauce of melted butter 
thickened with flour and seasoned with a few 
drops of lemon juice, a sprinkling of mustard, 
and a little Madeira or sherry wine. 

Lest you should get so attached to this Lobster 
devilled lobster of mine, I hasten to put here ^''"** 
an alluring sounding recipe, hoping you may 
be induced to try it before forming the devilled 
lobster habit. First fry a sliced onion in 
enough butter so that there will be no brown- 
ing of it. Take out the onion in two or 
three minutes, as it is only intended to flavor 
the butter, and then fry in this butter the 
diced meat of two boiled lobsters for two 
or three minutes. Sprinkle in some chopped 
parsley and salt and pepper as you like it. 
Pour over the lobster a pint of white wine, 
and as soon as this gets to the boiling point 
take out the lobster and put it on slices of 
toast. Into the boiling wine put all the 

9 



I30 I GO A-MARKETING 

butter from the lobsters, just a few chopped 
mushrooms, if they are at hand, and pour 
over the slices of lobster toast. Have this 
just as hot as possible when sending to table, 
and you will find the alluringness of this dish 
is not in the telling of it only. 
Lobster A lobster tartlet is a gastronomical dream. 
Tartlet j^^ ^^ ^^jj y.^^^ while we are on the subject, 

and after you try it you will be telling the 
same story. You should have tartlet moulds 
made of the very best puff paste, which you 
fill with diced cold boiled lobster, chopped 
cooked mushrooms, a caper or two, and a bit 
of mayonnaise. 
Lobster a la Lobster a la Newberg is such a staple dish 
ew erg ^^^^ j^ seems almost like plagiarizing something 
or somebody to put it on record here. How- 
ever, as no list of lobster dishes is correct 
without it, here it shall go. Cut the boiled 
lobster into two-inch pieces and fry over a 
tremendously hot fire, either in a chafing dish or 
on a range, for just two or three seconds ; lessen 
the heat then, or pull the frying-pan into 
cooler quarters, while you cover the lobster 
with thick, rich cream. Let this come to a 
threat to boil, then stir in say three egg yolks 



I GO A-MARKETING 131 

to a pint of cream, the yolks stirred in a little 
cream, till it thickens a bit. Just a dash of 
sherry, say two tablespoonfuls, and there 
you are. 

For stuffing lobster tails cut the meat of Stuffed 
the lobsters up rather finely, and add to it ^•''"*"' ^"''^ 
half its quantity of mushrooms. Fry in but- 
ter a bit, dilute with a little cream, season 
highly with cayenne and salt and fill the half 
tails with the mixture. Coat with bread 
crumbs that have been stirred about in melted 
butter, and brown in a hot oven. 

The making of lobster croquettes is a pleas- Lobster 
ant sort of business, for there is so much an- (^''Ofuettea 
ticipation of good to come stirred in with it. 
Cut the meat — don't chop it — rather finely : 
moisten with a bit of cream and the butter 
from the lobster. Mould and roll in crumbs 
and fry a golden brown. Don't go to seasoning 
these croquettes very highly or the delicacy 
will depart from them. But you know that. 
And do you know that you may add to almost 
any sauce used for boiled or baked fish some 
diced cooked lobster to the benefit of every- 
thing and everybody concerned ? Well, you 
may — my word for it. 



132 I GO A-MARKETING 

If I were to tack a sub-title to this screed 
it might very properly be : " Women's Lunch- 
eons," inasmuch as it was in aid of one of 
these mild social dissipations that I last peram- 
bulated through the markets. Very properly 
also I might characterize the trip as a " peri- 
patetic wandering through the market-place," 
for all the while I was in quest of edibles 
suitable to put before a purely feminine com- 
pany I was talking to myself about the prob- 
able origin of this form of hospitality. When, 
where, and by whom it was invented ? My 
own conjecture as to its inception finally took 
this course : Algernon was in the habit of 
attending a great many goings-on to which 
women were never bidden. And Araminta 
frequently discussed with him the calls thus 
made upon his time. Whereupon it came to 
pass that after one particularly interesting de- 
bate on the subject, which debate was brought 
to an end by the sharp, quick closing of the 
street door, Araminta had an idea. An idea 
which she called an inspiration, nothing less, 
and it had for its starting-point a luncheon, a 
dainty, gay little affair, at which no black coat 
should be allowed to intrude. And the piece 
de r'esistance of the meal should be a sweet 



I GO A-MARKETING 133 

called " revenge." Oh, yes indeed, not only 
would her guests applaud her originality, but 
the hearts of the absent males would be torn 
to tatters at her assumption of independence. 
And doubtless Part One of the programme was 
carried out to the letter, but, between you and 
me, I don't believe Algernon ever lost a wink 
of sleep over it. In fact, when he settled the 
bill I have good reasons for mistrusting that 
he said something about the " game being 
jolly well worth the candle." 

But to-day the women's luncheon is an in- 
stitution, and a very chic and dainty diversion 
into the bargain. And there are those who 
make it their business to tell how a woman 
should be arrayed at such a festivity, but that 
is out of my province. If, however, you 
would know how the menu should read at 
this time of year, allow me : — 

Cantaloupe. 
Bouillon in cups. 
Lobster patties. 
Lamb cutlets with mushrooms. 

String beans fried in butter. 
Broiled quails. 

Tomatoes stuffed with celery and mayonnaise. 
Wine ice cream. Grapes. Coffee. 

I almost said oysters at the beginning of 



134 I GO A-MARKETING 

the menu, but oysters we shall have with us 
for several months to come, while cantaloupes 
are beginning to say it 's about time they were 
going. As yet, however, they are just as de- 
licious and no more expensive than they have 
been at any time through the season. 

Now as for bouillon. I get it canned, and 
think myself very fortunate in being able to 
do so. But you may prefer to make your 
own, and if so you probably have an always 
reliable recipe. Mes congratulations. 
Lobster But if you have a score of recipes for 
Patties making lobster patties, I honestly believe you 
will follow the one I am pleased to give you 
herein. I take myself very seriously, you 
see. Well, prepare some of the very best puff 
paste that you know how to make. Roll it 
out on a floured table; with a fluted cutter 
cut out some rounds, put them on a baking 
dish, set them on ice for fifteen minutes, then 
brush them over with beaten egg. With a 
plain tin cutter of about half the size of the 
fluted cover cut through a third of each of 
the rounds, dipping the cutter in warm water 
every time ; this will form the cover when 
baked. Bake in a quick oven. When cooked 
lift off the cover and scoop out a little of the 



I GO A-MARKETING 135 

soft paste inside. For the lobster filling take 

the meat from a boiled lobster, cut it into very 

small pieces and fry a little in butter, in a 

very little butter, till they just threaten to 

brown. Then pour over the lobster bits 

enough thick cream to barely cover them ; 

heat this, but don't let it boil. Thicken it 

with two or more beaten eggs, according to 

the quantity of lobster. Season delicately 

with salt and a suspicion of cayenne. Have 

the patties hot and the lobster hot, and arrange 

them on a hot dish for serving. For dear 

knows that a cold or a lukewarm patty is an 

abomination. 

After the patties the lamb cutlets. And, Lamb Cutlets 

mind you, they are to be fried, not broiled. '^'^ . 

J ' J ' Mushrooms 

Season them well with salt and pepper, and 
fry in a little butter over a brisk fire till 
browned on both sides. Then drain off the 
butter and baste ^hem with just a little Ma- 
deira wine. Dress the cutlets in a circle and 
pour into the centre a Madeira sauce with 
mushrooms. This you make by heating half 
a pint of any good stock, adding to it a gill of 
Madeira, thickening it with a little flour braided 
with butter, and adding at the last a dozen 
mushrooms that have been minced and fried 



136 I GO A-MARKETING 

moderately in a little butter. You may use 
sherry instead of the Madeira for basting the 
cutlets and for the sauce if you like. And 
also you may use the tinned instead of fresh 
mushrooms if you prefer to do so. For fresh 
mushrooms may not be any too plenty just 
now, and consequently are a thought expen- 
sive. Still, they 're quite worth the price. 

And now that the " law 's off" probably 
hereabouts on quail, you will find them in 
pretty good condition. Indeed, they are so 
good that I hope you will just have them 
broiled after salting a bit, and pin your faith 
to their own delicious flavor to give delight 
to your guests. Have them served on toast, 
if you must, that has been slightly buttered, 
but forget to serve any jelly with them. 

I 've told you elsewhere all about tomatoes 
stuffed with celery and mayonnaise, so I won't 
go into particulars this time. But tomatoes 
will not be with us at the prices for which we 
can now get them a great while longer, and 
celery is remarkably good in quality and low 
in price. So there's a good broad hint for you. 

That wine ice cream which I have recom- 
mended is truly a delightful confection. You 
have a pint of moderately rich cream, and you 



I GO A-MARKETING 137 

add to it the yolks of five eggs and three Wine 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, and then you heat it '"^ ^™"'" 
just a trifle. Next you stir in a gill of white 
wine, and then you freeze it. When quite 
frozen stir into it some chopped preserved 
cherries. Then turn the cream into a mould 
packed in ice to set till time for serving, when 
it is to be turned out on a cold dish. Does n't 
that sound as if it would be worth a trial ? 

You see I 've simply said grapes in the 
menu because, as far as that fruit is concerned 
just now, it is a case of paying your money 
and taking your choice. 

And what will the ladies have to drink? 
Suppose we say a sip of sherry with the bouil- 
lon and a bottle of pretty good Rhine wine to 
be brought in with the cutlets. And it 
does n't seem to me that it would be over- 
doing the matter to have a cordial finale — say 
creme yvette, or creme de cacao a la vanille. 

Of course, I will tell you the approximate 
cost of such a luncheon. With good man- 
agement it can be served, inclusive of the 
wines, for twelve dollars for a dozen persons. 
And that is not bad, now, is it ? 

Did n't you just enjoy that cooling little 
entr'acte we had in July ? I did. Let 's 



138 I GO A-MARKETING 

have another. We will not have anything 
sweet in this, however, we will have it cold 
and savory. Does n't that hit you favorably? 
There are plenty of cold and dainty savories 
that may come to table as your chief dish at 
luncheon or at dinner or as an entree only, at 
the latter meal, according to the degree with 
which you manage to put on style. 
Cold Chicken There 's chicken cream, for instance, made 
Cream f^^^ ^ ^.^j^ boiled or roasted — well, bird. 
I don't know whether it 's chicken or fowl. 
Perhaps you paid for chicken and got fowl. 
Perhaps you paid for fowl and wheedled the 
provisioner into giving you chicken. But 
we will say chicken, anyway. Pick, then, all 
the flesh from the chicken, mince and then 
pound it. Now add to it half a pint of cream 
stiffly whipped and half a pint of just liquid 
aspic jelly. Season with salt and white pepper 
and any other condiment if you like. Then 
have one large or several small moulds and 
line them with aspic jelly and fill with the 
chicken cream. Let set till cold and stiff and 
then unmould on slices of very thin fried bread. 
Chop parsley and sprinkle over the creams 
when unmoulded. 

Another way would be to line the moulds 



I GO A-MARKETING 139 

with liquid aspic and a little tomato sauce. Chicken 

When this sets fill with the chicken cream as ^^^"1 
,--.,.,, , with Tomato 

berore. It you like the cream may be 

omitted from the chicken and when it is 

unmoulded it may be covered with a French 

dressing or with mayonnaise. 

Any remains of cold meat can be chopped 
finely, mixed with shredded lettuce or water- 
cress or parsley, capers, stoned olives, a truffle 
or two and mayonnaise, with enough liquid 
aspic to stiffen it and moulded in any way. 

These do make delicious presentations of 
old subjects — just a little labor and a little 
inventive painstaking and you have accom- 
plished wonders. There are so many garnish- 
es that may be used with these cold things 
to make them more of a delight that it is 
impossible to go through the list. Sliced 
tomatoes or cucumbers or some cold cooked 
vegetable with a French dressing — any quan- 
tity of them you see once you begin to cast 
about for them. 

No one knows better than I do that to 
make the conventional aspic jelly is a labor 
that involves terrible risks as regards the 
breaking of the commandment concerning 
profanity. I don't mind telling you that I 



I40 I GO A-MARKETING 

found it was having such a degenerating effect 
on my whole moral nature that I hit upon 
using just the best gelatine I can buy — this 
is not the place to name it, however — and 
dissolving it in a clear stock — white or brown 
as the case demands. Try it in making these 
aspic things. 
Cold Cutlets You know, of course, that cold cutlets are 
in Jelly ^.j^g j^^g^. impossible left-over thing with which 
the housekeeper has to deal. But prepare 
some savory jelly with stock and tomato 
sauce and coat these left-over cutlets with it 
some day and have them for luncheon. You 
will confess that you have learned something 
worth knowing. 

Then there are numberless kinds of fish, 
almost any kind in fact that does n't run to 
bone, that will flake well; dip the pieces in 
a jelly of this kind diluted with any kind of 
sauce — Hollandaise, vinaigrette, tomato, and 
so on to the end of the list. Now, mind, 
when I say coat these viands with this jelly 
I don't mean for you to give them a regular 
ulster for a coat — but a little thin diaphanous 
jacket, suitable for hot weather, you under- 
stand. 

When you can use cream in the jellies. 



I GO A-MARKETING 141 

either whipped or straight, the daintiness of 
them is increased by just so much. 

There are some kinds of game — dark game 
especially — that you may slice and coat with 
this jelly using currant jelly with it also and 
get some combinations that will drive your 
friends to despair. 

Bear in mind that these jellied things must 
be kept on ice till served and the plates on 
which they are served must also be ice-cold. 
It does seem too bad for me to have to bur- 
den my soul with such instructions for you — 
they should be needless. But when good 
fortune takes me to luncheon in a crack hotel 
and I get my salad on a hot plate, or a hot 
plate set before me for the serving of it, I am 
forced to the conclusion that the mental light- 
weights are still in evidence and there's no 
knowing but what some of them in a moment 
of lucidity may become the owner of this 
book. Therefore I go into tiresome details, 
occasionally. 



SEPTEMBER 

" But the fruit that falls 'without shaking 
Indeed is too mello<wfor me.'"'' 



THERE are persons, as some of us 
can testify, who appear to be horrified 
if a Manhattan cocktail is mentioned 
in the most casual manner, and who are war- 
ranted to shy if they but get a whifF of a 
Martini, but give them a chance to partake of 
an oyster cocktail and you have added a sub- 
stantial item to their sum of worldly pleasure. 
Almost everybody likes an oyster cocktail 
when it is judiciously mixed, but folk of the 
ilk above referred to do seem to have a pecul- 
iar fondness for it. Now, is it because a 
course of total abstinence has rendered their 
palates extremely sensitive to highly seasoned 
impressions, or is it that the name has a witch- 
ery that beguiles them into thinking that they 
are tasting a forbidden thing without sacrificing 
a principle ? I don't know. You tell. 
Oxjster And tell me, too, if this is the way you set 
Cochtail about preparing one of these palate-ticklers. 
Half a dozen little oysters dropped into a 
glass, with their juice, a little lemon juice, four 



I GO A-MARKETING 143 

miserly drops of Tabasco sauce, half a tea- 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a dessert- 
spoonful of tomato ketchup, and several 
grains of salt. Or do you substitute horse- 
radish for the Tabasco ? They tell me it 's 
frequently done, but for myself I prefer the 
Tabasco. It is a vexed question, anyway, 
this matter of what shall be put on a raw 
oyster to make it more palatable ; the , real 
dyed-in-the-wool epicurean vows that it is 
nothing short of barbarism to use more than 
the tiniest pinch of salt, while many a discrim- 
inating gourmet declares that the more you 
do for an oyster the more it does for you. 
So there you are. 

But epicureans and laymen alike are agreed Bahed 
on one point, and that is the way to bake ^y^*^''^ 
oysters so that they are worthy of a place on 
any table. Put into a small lined stewpan a 
quarter of a pound of butter and one teacup- 
ful of cream, stirring it well over a quick fire 
till hot. Add a wineglass of sherry, a table- 
spoonful of anchovy sauce, and a skimpy 
sprinkling of cayenne and grated lemon peel. 
Stir over the fire till it bubbles once. Then 
pour half of the mixture into a baking dish. 
Lay the oysters on it, besprinkle them with 



with Cream 



144 I GO A-MARKETING 

a scanty covering of bread-crumbs and grated 
Parmesan cheese, with salt and pepper. Pour 
the remainder of the cream over all and brown 
to a good color. 

Once one gets in the way of baking oysters 
as herein prescribed, one's recipe for scalloped 
oysters, no matter how true and tried, will be 
lost sight of. 
Oyster Stew And the same fate will likely befall one's 
rule for making an oyster stew, provided one 
adopts this suggestion for preparing oysters 
with cream. In the first place there should 
be put into a saucepan a pint of cream with a 
tiny piece of onion and a little mace tied up 
in a musHn bag. When the cream boils 
thicken it with a tablespoonful of flour mixed 
with two tablespoonfuls of cream. Heat a 
quart of oysters, with their liquor and sufficient 
salt. Then drain and put them into a 
dish which is to be sent to table ; pour the 
cream over them, removing the onion and 
mace. With the dish serve toasted bread or 
biscuit. 

Undoubtedly all your friends are ready to 
take oath that you do have at your table the 
very best fried oysters they ever tasted. 
But the next time that you regale them with the 



I GO A-MARKETING 145 

dishj let the oysters be devilled and then fried. Devilled 
Wipe the oysters perfectly dry and lay them '^"^'^ Oysters 
on a flat dish. Have a goodly supply of 
butter at just the melting point, mix with it a 
little salt, a suspicion of cayenne, and a cer- 
tainty of lemon juice ; pour this over the 
oysters and leave them in it for at least 
ten minutes. Then roll them in a paper of 
cracker crumbs or sifted bread-crumbs; dip 
them into beaten egg, then into the crumbs 
again, and fry in boiling lard. 

Or you can make a dish of fried oysters Stuffed 
even more elaborate if you will chop six ounces "® *'* ^'^^ 
of the white meat of any fowl with one ounce 
of fat salt pork, pound it in a mortar till 
your stock of patience threatens to strike, 
then chop a few truffles to the size of peas, 
and add them with a little white pepper to the 
chopped meat. Have four dozen oysters 
wiped dry, and with a sharp knife make an 
opening in the side of each one ; fill the holes 
with the mixture. Dip the oysters in crumbs, 
then in egg, again in the crumbs, and fry. 

Now see to it that your guests don't exhaust 
their pet adjectives on either of these dishes. 
They will need at least a good round dozen of 
superlatives after an experience with a celery 



146 I GO A-MARKETING 

Oysters, roast of oysters. And this is the way the 
Celery Roast g^Qj-y gQgg . Have ready some dainty slices of 
breadj toasted, with the crusts removed. 
Wipe dry and broil some of the smallest 
oysters you can get ; broil till they begin 
to shrivel all round, then put them on 
the toast. Sprinkle a little salt over them ; 
cover them with some finely chopped 
celery. Salt the celery a bit also. Have 
ready cream heated, but not boiled, and 
pour it over the whole. Serve it as hot as 
possible, and rejoice in the fact that you have 
demonstrated how divine a thing an oyster 
may be made. 
Oyster Pie It 's a thousand pities that everybody 
does n't know how to make good pufF paste, 
for without that knowledge it is impossible to 
make a good oyster pie ; but in case you are an 
adept at puff paste making, just try concocting 
one some fine day. Line a pie dish with the 
paste and fill it with uncooked rice; butter 
the paste that covers the edge of the dish and 
lay a cover of puff paste over the pie ; press 
the edges together a bit and trim them neatly. 
Meanwhile prepare a quart of oysters by 
draining them from their liquor and chopping 
them fine. Mix a teaspoonful of cornstarch 



I GO A-MARKETING 147 

in a very little cold milk, and pour over 
slowly half a pint of boiling milk or cream ; 
when it is thick and smooth add to it an ounce 
of butter. Season the oysters with salt and 
pepper, and stir them into the mixture; 
simmer for five minutes. When the pie-crust 
is done remove it from the oven, take off the 
top crust, turn out all the rice and fill the dish 
with the oysters; put on the cover again, and 
set in the oven to get thoroughly hot. 

They do say the recollection of an oyster 
pie so made is one of the sweetest echoes to 
start when memory plays a tune on the heart, 
even though one lives to be as old as Methu- 
selah. 

And now let me tell you of a way to pre- PicMed 
pare oysters so that they may come under the Oysters 
head of stand-bys, so dear to every house- 
keeper. Take two quarts of oysters and put 
them into a porcelain-lined saucepan with 
their own liquor strained, half a grated nut- 
meg, a teaspoonfiil of salt, a little cayenne, 
and half a pint of strong vinegar. Then into 
a muslin bag put half a teaspoonful of cloves, 
two blades of mace, a teaspoonful of allspice, 
and two bay leaves ; put this in with the 
oysters. Let them cook very slowly, stirring 



148 I GO A-MARKETING 

all the while with a wooden spoon. As soon 
as they come to a boil pour them into an 
earthenware jar. When thoroughly cold they 
are ready to serve ; if they are well covered in 
a cool place they can easily be kept for a 
week or even longer. 



Of late years, when the subject of home- 
made preserves and pickles has been referred 
to in my hearing, I have been wont to assume 
a very superior and quite top-lofty air, and to 
. remark in a know-it-all tone of voice : " Oh, 
life's too short for me to bother with any- 
thing like that ; give me the fruits and vege- 
tables and all other edibles that one can buy 
preserved in tin or glass the year round; 
they're better than home-made nine times out 
of ten, they cost no more in the end, and 
there's slight necessity for guesswork when 
you are to open a can as to the condition of 
its contents." Sometimes, if I had a very 
tractable audience, this would end all discus- 
sion for the time being. At others it would 
fairly set the advocates of domestic preserving 
by their ears, and then you may be sure they 



I GO A-MARKETING 149 

defended their cause in good earnest. But 
they never induced me to go in for anything 
of the sort. Still, I now have on hand a very 
fair array of jars and bottles and tumblers 
filled with jellies and jams and pickles, and 
they are home-made, and they are old- 
fashioned and I am proud of them. And 
I '11 . tell you how it happened. Out in the 
country, three weeks or so ago, I was passing 
a farm-house where the door opening into the 
kitchen stood wide open, and through that 
open door came a fragrant breath that called 
to mind numberless sweet "woodsy smells. 
There was in it a suggestion of sweet fern, a 
reminder of bayberry, a hint of sassafras and 
a distinct likeness of grapevine blossoms. 
And this divine odor was conjured up, I 
learned, by the stewing of grapes — wild grapes, 
of course ; the cultivated varieties being quite 
out of it when it comes to preserving. That 
settled it. Within twenty-four hours from 
that time there was issuing from my kitchen 
an odor of wild grapes a-stewing. 

To go into particulars, I was making grape Grape Jam 
jam. I weighed the grapes, and to every 
pound I allowed three-quarters of a pound 
of sugar. Then I squeezed the pulp out of 



ISO I GO A-MARKETING 

the skins, putting the pulp in one bowl and 
the skins in another. The sugar with a 
quarter of its quantity of water was boiled 
in a preserving kettle till it was quite clear. 
Then was added to it the pulp of the grapes 
which were boiled ever so slowly for twenty 
minutes — when they were rubbed through a 
hair sieve and put back on the stove, with 
the skins added to them. Then they 
were boiled until the skins filled and looked 
good and plump. And when they were quite 
cooled I put them into jars covered tightly 
to keep out the air. Next winter I shall de- 
pend upon this jam to help me out at many 
a luncheon with hot buttered toast or with 
waffles. And I 've a strong notion that it 
won't play me false. 
Quince You know how one word leads to another. 
Well, I find that one preserve leads to an- 
other just as surely. After making the grape 
jam I was determined to try my hand at 
quinces — at quince marmalade. And it turned 
out such a success that I offer the recipe for 
your use if you like to try it. Peel and cut 
into thin slices four pounds of quinces, put 
them into a preserving kettle, with half their 
quantity of peeled and sliced sweet apples. 



Marmalade 



I GO A-MARKETING 151 

two quarts of water and the juice of a lemon. 
Cover the kettle and let the contents boil 
quickly till softened; then put in three pounds 
of crushed sugar loaf, and stir over the fire 
while it boils slowly for twenty minutes. Take 
the kettle from the fire, pour the marmalade 
into jars, and when it is cool tie brandied 
papers over the tops. I shall find many uses 
for this sweet, I fancy, and some day when I 
am quite put to it to know what to have for 
dessert, I shall just have the simplest sort of 
a bread pudding, and for a sauce some of this 
quince marmalade. 

And having made the marmalade, I find Quince Jelly 
that no reasonable excuse exists for not mak- 
ing quince jelly, because the parings can be 
used along with more of the fruit. Core the 
whole fruit and put this with the parings into 
a stewpan with just as much water as will 
cover them; stew them gently till they are 
tender, but not red. Strain the juice from 
the quinces without pressing them, measure it, 
and for each cupful allow an equal quantity 
of crushed loaf sugar. Pour the juice into a 
preserving pan and boil it for twenty minutes, 
then add the sugar and boil until reduced to 
the consistency of jelly, stirring it well all the 



152 I GO A-MARKETING 

time. Strain through a jelly bag and pour 
into small jelly tumblers. And this you know 
is going to be not only a toothsome bit, but 
if I put it into a pretty and suitable dish and 
set it in just the right place on my luncheon 
or dinner table, it will be a thing of beauty. 
Plum Jam I 'm feeling rather proud, too, of my suc- 
cess with plum jam. It really strikes me as 
being delicious, and from the favored few who 
have been allowed to " taste " it, I have heard 
very flattering things. So you shall receive this 
recipe also. Have ready say twelve pounds 
of large ripe plums peeled and divided into 
halves ; crack their stones, blanch the kernels 
and pound them in a mortar. Put the par- 
ings and cracked stones into a pan with three 
quarts of water. Boil this until it is reduced 
one-half, and then strain it through a fine 
wire sieve. Put the fruit into a preserving 
pan with the strained liquor and pounded 
kernels and twelve pounds of crushed loaf 
sugar. Cook over a slow fire until it is re- 
duced to a stiff jam, then turn it into jars 
and let it stand till quite cold, sift into 
each jar a layer of powdered sugar, cover with 
rounds of paper dipped in brandy, tie securely 
and put away. Some foggy morning spread 



Plums 



I GO A-MARKETING 153 

a little of this jam on some toasted muffins 
for breakfast, have some English breakfast 
tea, and play you are in " Lunnun." 

Really, you know, I should n't feel that I Brandied 
had done the right thing by you if, after 
recommending that jams be covered by bran- 
died papers I should omit to say something 
of plums preserved in brandy. They make 
a dainty tidbit, serve them when you will — 
morning, noon, or night. You don't want to 
use plums that are any more than ripe; in 
fact, if they're not much more than half-ripe 
it will be quite as well. Say you have eight 
pounds of them ; prick them all over and put 
over the fire in cold water. As soon as the 
water boils and the fruit rises to the surface 
take out with a skimmer and lay them in a 
pan of ice water. Then make a clear syrup 
of two pounds of loaf sugar and a pint of 
water. Put in the plums and let them 
boil up just once; and let them stand 
in the syrup over night. The next day 
take them out of the syrup, boil this 
once, put in the plums and let them 
boil just once and let them stand over night 
once more in the syrup. Repeat this opera- 
tion the next day and the following day, then 



Peaohea 



154 I GO A-MARKETING 

drain the plums and put them into bottles. 
Boil the syrup till it will almost candy, and 
when quite cold add to it three-fourths of 
its own quantity of the best brandy you feel 
that you can afford, mix thoroughly with the 
syrup, strain it and pour over the plums. 
Cork the bottles securely. 
Brandied But if it 's peaches that you want to see in 
brandy, you go about it in this way : Split 
the peaches in halves and boil them in a 
syrup such as is used for the plums. Boil 
them two minutes only, then take them out 
and remove their skins, put them back in the 
syrup to simmer for five minutes; take 
the pan off and leave the peaches in it till the 
next day. Then drain and arrange them 
carefully in jars. Boil the syrup down 
and mix with it an equal quantity of white 
brandy and when quite cold pour it over the 
peaches. Cover the jars tightly. And it's 
not for me to tell you when to use them, 
— because the using of brandied peaches soon 
becomes a fixed habit, and it's pretty hard to 
be able to tell when not to use them. 



Why Is it that housekeepers, the land over, 
with excellent reputations as "good man- 



I GO A-MARKETING 155 

agers," see in an apple only three possibilities, Apples in 
to wit : apple pie, apple sauce and baked ^'"""" 
apples, when by the aid of a vegetable spoon, 
such as is used for preparing Parisienne 
potatoes, the apples may be scooped out into 
balls, cooked in a syrup flavored with vanilla, 
served hot with a sprinkling of finely chopped 
pistachios over all, and so served be worthy a 
place on the table of the veriest gourmet? 
Hardly a whit more trouble involved, you 
see, or expense, for that matter, than in the 
preparation of " apple sauce," and yet how 
much more appetizing and wholly satisfactory ! 
Again, if you want to idealize baked apples, 
have them peeled and cored, then boil in a 
flavored syrup till tender, but firm, and with 
sugar and burnt almond scattered over them 
set in oven to acquire a delicate brown. 
Garnish when serving with bits of marmalade 
or jelly. 

The frying of apples successfully is a tick- Fried Apples 
lish matter, it must be admitted, but if the 
fruit is perfectly sound when peeled, cored, 
and quartered, the fat piping hot, with only a 
few pieces dropped in at a time, if, as I say, 
all these conditions prevail and your fried 
apples be not a success, then rest assured 



156 I GO A-MARKETING 

there is some witchcraft at work and you are 
in no wise to blame. The pity will be none 
the less, however, for nothing so complements 
delicious little pork chops for a luncheon dish 
as apples so prepared. And pork chops, by 
the way, are quite to be desired these cool 
autumn days. 
Apple Salad Nothing can exceed the joy-giving proper- 
ties of an apple salad if it be rightly concocted. 
For myself I prefer that there shall be a 
judicious mixture of celery with the apple, 
that the pepper, salt, and oil be added with a 
sparing hand, and that without fail lemon 
juice shall be used in place of vinegar. It 
.hardly seems necessary to say, and yet one 
never knows just what is the proper stopping 
place in giving advice, that a steel knife must 
not be allowed to touch the apples, else what 
might have been and should be a thing of 
beauty is a damaging blight to an otherwise 
perfectly appointed table. This kind of salad 
is in its rightful place when accompanying 
any variety of black duck, and just now wild 
ducks are of prime flavor. The marketmen 
know this, but I find that not many of them 
know why these birds are to be in their best 
estate for the next two months, when the 



I GO A-MARKETING 157 

reason as explained to me by sportsmen is 
both sound and plausible, namely, that now 
the birds are getting their feed where it is the 
sweetest and best, along the shores of fresh 
ponds, but later when Jack Frost shall have 
done his perfect work they must hie them to 
the salt marshes for sustenance, and very soon 
thereafter the fact of their changed diet is 
made manifest to those who dine from them. 

One can hardly talk of ways and means for Pears in 
treating apples and leave unsaid one or two ^""'"" 
directions for serving pears so that they shall 
be quite good enough to do duty upon any 
occasion. Have you ever tried peeling them, 
splitting them in two lengthwise, scooping out 
the core, cooking till tender in a syrup 
strongly flavored with vanilla, and then drain- 
ing them, filling the hollows left by removing 
the cores with powdered macaroons ? If you 
have, then you know how to complete the 
pretty task ; if not, then I will tell you that 
after the macaroons have been added the two 
parts of a pear must be put together, the 
pears laid on their side alternately with tiny 
rice croquettes which have been coated with 
apricot marmalade or any preferred jam. 
You may take the syrup in which the pears 



158 I GO A-MARKETING 

were boiled and adding to it a little whipped 
cream pour it over the whole. My word for 
it, if the early part of your feast has consisted 
of such delicacies as nightingales' tongues and 
plovers' eggs, pears so prepared will seem 
a fitting dessert, but if, as is more probable, 
you have dined from a perfectly broiled 
chicken (and they were never better and less 
expensive than now), you will find this dish 
of pears quite the crowning beauty of your 
dinner that it deserves to be. 
Stuffed And while we are on the subject of cooking 
Stewed pgars I will tell you of another way in which 
I have always seen them find favor. After 
they are cooked and the core scooped out I 
fill them with a mixture of several kinds of 
fruit, finely chopped, laying them on a shallow 
dish of rice and cream, pouring syrup over 
them. 
Pears Now for another way of cooking pears as 
they should be, to be " not like other folks' " 
pears: let me suggest that you get inexpen- 
sive, oh very inexpensive claret in which to 
stew pears the next time you see fit to have 
them. Stew them till tender, then take them 
out and add to the claret what sugar you 
think is needed to have it sweet enough when 



Stewed 
in Claret 



I GO A-MARKETING 159 

it is boiled down to about one-half the original 
quantity. Pour over the pears and let cool 
before serving. Sublimate this idea, if you 
see fit, by sprinkling in- chopped almonds or 
chopped pistachios or any other little pleasantry 
that occurs to your inventive genius, — that 
is, if you 've an inventive genius that is to be 
trusted. 



Suppose you find, on one of your trips to 

market this month, as you probably will, that 

poultry is very low in price, won't you give 

this suggestiorf a trial ? Cut a chicken up as 

for a ragout, and boil it in as little water as 

will cover it, seasoning the water with a small 

onion, salt, white pepper, and a gill of sherry 

wine. When the chicken is almost tender Fried 

enough, drain it from the liquor and let it get f*'"*®"' , 
=> ' , ., , . Italian Style 

perfectly cold. Meanwhile have m a stewpan 
half a gill of olive oil, with a pinch of minced 
onion and a little salt and pepper. When this 
is quite hot and the chicken quite cold, cook 
the chicken in it to a delicate brown. Dish 
the chicken when it is browned evenly, and 
pour over it a sauce made by adding a gill of 
the stock in which it was boiled to the oil in 



i6o I GO A-MARKETING 

the stewpan, thickening it all with the yolks 
of two eggs. This makes a most deli- 
cious dish and is well worth the trial. The 
frying in oil gives it its distinctive flavor, and 
makes it very different from fowl fried in 
butter, which is in France always called 
poulet sautee, to mark the difference. 

With And this same dish can be varied a little by 
Tomatoes ^^j^^g tomatoes with the chicken. After the 
chicken has been fried in the oil, lay it on 
fried tomatoes, and then pour the sauce over 
all. Have the tomatoes as large as possible 
and not too ripe ; slice them, dust them with 
salt and pepper, and fry very, very slowly in 
a little oil till they are cooked ; but don't let 
the slices get out of shape. 
Roast Duck If you think you would prefer a roast of 

with poultry, do try ducks to be had now. Roast 
Sauce them in any way that experience has taught 
you is the best, but when it comes to making 
the sauce for them, let me have a word to say. 
Mince two or three slices of bacon and a 
small onion and fry together for five 
minutes ; add to them the juice of an orange 
and a wineglassfiil of port wine, the drippings 
from the pan in which the ducks were roasted, 
and a seasoning of salt and pepper. It 's an 



I GO A-MARKETING i6i 

ideal September dish, that 's what it is. And Broiled 
you might accompany it or follow it with j"' ^ 
another that is particularly seasonable, namely, 
broiled devilled tomatoes. First you mash 
the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, then you 
mix with them a saltspoonful of salt, one tea- 
spoonful each of powdered sugar and mustard, 
and as much cayenne as your taste calls for ; 
then stir in three ounces of melted butter, and 
when all the ingredients are well blended add 
three tablespoonfuls of vinegar. At this stage 
put the mixture over the fire to reach the 
boiling point, and stir in two well-beaten eggs. 
When it has thickened a bit stand in hot 
water on the stove to keep warm while you 
give a little attention to the tomatoes. These 
must be ripe and firm. Cut them in half-inch 
slices, broil over a clear fire, place on a 
hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and there 
you are. This makes a really appetizing 
breakfast dish as well as a savory dinner 
course. Try it some morning, having with it 
crisp broiled bacon and some dainty rice muf- 
fins, and you will find yourself considerably 
above par with your household for the rest of 
that day at least. 

And in a day or so follow up the good im- 



i62 I GO A-MARKETING 



Broiled pressioti by having at luncheon tomatoes pre- 



Tomatoes 
on Toast 



pared in this way : Cut some round slices of 
bread and fry them delicately in butter till 
they are brown. Slice firm, ripe tomatoes to 
match the sizes of the bread slices ; broil the 
tomatoes just a wee bit, and then lay a slice 
on each piece of the French bread. Season 
them with pepper and salt, scatter grated 
Parmesan cheese over them, spread them 
with a layer of fine bread-crumbs moistened 
with melted butter. Brown in a hot oven 
and serve piping hot. And if the man o' the 
house is the right sort you will get a vote of 
thanks in the shape of a big bunch of the 
earliest and brightest chrysanthemums to be 
found in town. 
Celery and Have you ever made a salad of apples and 
ppe ala ggig^y ? Use sour apples cut into dice- 
shaped pieces, and cut the celery into 
half-inch bits. Arrange in the salad dish 
in this way : A layer of the apple, then a 
sprinkling of capers ; next a layer of the cel- 
ery, and over this three or four olives cut in 
thin slices, and so on till the dish is full. 
Make a dressing of a saltspoonful of salt, a 
good dash of cayenne pepper, the juice of a 
lemon, and six tablespoonfuls of olive oil. 



I GO A-MARKETING 163 

Pour this over the apples and celery about 
ten minutes before serving. Be sure that 
you let the youngsters have all of this 
salad that they want, for it will be hard to 
concoct a more wholesome and healthful one. 

And I am going to suggest a variation or Apple Sauoe 
two of the apple sauce theme for your ap- '^'^f' Orange 
proval. Go ahead and get your apples ready 
as you always have, and when you put them 
on the stove to cook add to them the peel of 
an orange. When the apples are quite cooked 
press them through a sieve, add brown sugar 
to them to taste, and the juice of one orange 
to a pint of apple. Put this on the stove to 
cook for about two minutes, and then put 
aside to cool before serving. Or, stew your With 
apples till they are tender, press them through ^^'PP^'' 
a sieve, add to them the amount of sugar they 
require, and when they are quite cold beat up 
with them lightly some well-whipped cream 
— a pint of cream after it is whipped to a 
quart of apple sauce. 

Now, if it comes to pass that neither or 
both of these ways of making apple sauce 
finds favor with you, you will certainly give 
an attentive ear to a hint on the subject of 
pears. For one of the daintiest and most 



i64 I GO A-MARKETING 

Pear Salad seasonable of desserts is a pear salad. Know 
how it is made ? Have the pears quite ripe, 
cut them in thin slices, lay them in a glass 
dish, sprinkle powdered sugar on them, 
pour over them a glass of brandy which has 
in it a dozen drops or so of lemon juice, and 
let stand on ice for about fifteen minutes 
before serving. It is a good idea also to have 
the pears on ice for two or three hours before 
they are sliced. 
Stuffed Another delectable dessert made from pears 
Pears jg called " stuffed pears." Cut them in two 
and scoop out the core with a vegetable 
spoon. Cook the pears very gently in a little 
syrup till they are quite tender. Drain them, 
and have ready any kind of marmalade into 
which you have stirred chopped almonds. 
Stuff the pears with this and put them together 
in their original shape. Have in a dish a 
thin layer of boiled rice, over which you have 
spread a little whipped cream. Arrange the 
pears in a circle on the rice, and fill the centre 
with the same kind of marmalade as that used 
for stuffing the pears. 

And peaches may be prepared in just the 
same way ; but you may add just a few of the 
kernels of the peaches to the syrup while you 



I GO A-MARKETING 165 

are stewing them, which will give them a de- Stuffed 
lightful flavor. Indeed, I think it is always ''*""'"'» 
an improvement to use some of the kernels 
when cooking peaches for any way of serving. 
In tarts the kernels should be chopped as 
finely as possible. 

Peach cream makes a dainty and delicious Peach Cream 
dessert. Have a dozen ripe peaches, peel, 
removfe the stones, and then stew them 
with half a dozen of the kernels in a syrup 
made of half a pound of sugar and half a pint 
of water. When the peaches are quite soft 
press them through a sieve. Mix with the 
pulp one pint of cream, whipped, and one 
ounce of dissolved gelatine. Wet a fancy 
mould with cold water, pour in the preparation, 
and leave till firm. Unmould when serving. 

To be sure, there 's no way in the world that 
a peach is so delightful as when eaten from the 
hand, but it must be the very best sort of a 
peach to be eaten in this way, and the best 
sorts just now may be a thought expensive. 
That is the reason I have suggested ways for 
cooking them, because one can use an inferior 
quality and yet get perfectly satisfactory re- 
sults. And that is n't possible with most of 
life's commodities. 



OCTOBER 

« Fill up the boiul, then, Jill it high — 
Fill all the glasses there, for luhy 
Should every creature drink but I ; 
Why, man of morals, tell me luhy ? ' 



WHEN all the world adopts the 
Pythagorean menu as its standard 
of good living then I will bestir 
myself and concoct the daintiest dishes possi- 
ble from those " foods that are freshly chem- 
icalized by the sun's rays," and will gladly 
give you the benefit of my experiences. But 
I 'm no reformer, and until that day of uni- 
versal self-denial arrives I will continue the 
tenor of my way along the old line, and try 
to idealize commonplace, every-day viands 
into dishes that pique the appetite, and make 
of eating a deHcate delight. A very material 
vocation, it is true, but as matters stand a 
highly useful one. Eh ? 

Now there are smelts, as plump and inviting 
a fish as can be found in the market, and at 
their best, too. But how many housekeepers 
are there who ever think of serving them in 
any way but just simply fried ? Frequently, 



I GO A-MARKETING 167 

of course, they do serve them with a tartar 
sauce, but nine times out of ten it would ' be 
better for all concerned if the sauce were ne- 
glected or forgotten, or upset, or anything that 
would keep it away from the table. 

The next time you are to have smelts try Baked 
cooking them in this way : After they are *'"^'** 
cleaned have them wiped till perfectly dry, 
and lay them in a baking dish; over 
them pour a wineglass of white wine, add 
a sprinkling of salt and pepper, accord- 
ing to your judgment, half a dozen whole 
fresh mushrooms, and pour over them one- 
half a pint of Spanish sauce. Sprinkle ever so 
lightly with bread-crumbs and a little warmed 
butter, and bake in a hot oven for twenty 
minutes. This is the way you would prepare 
a dozen or fifteen of the fish ; of course for a 
larger number the amount of seasoning, etc., 
would be increased proportionately. Garnish 
the smelts before serving with thinly sliced 
lemon, each slice sprinkled with chopped 
parsley. 

Or try broiling them, if you like. Split Broiled 
the fish, using only the largest size, down the g^^^g;^' 
backs ; remove the backbones, wipe well 
and then rub them with a little oil and 



i68 I GO A-MARKETING 

season with salt and a bit of white pepper. 
Broil in a double broiler for three minutes 
on each side, over a hot fire. Have spread 
on the bottom of the dish in which they 
are to be served a layer of Bearnaise sauce ; 
arrange the smelts carefully and daintily on 
this and sprinkle over them a scanty bit of 
chopped parsley. You '11 find this far and 
away ahead af the eternal " fried smelts and 
sauce tartare." 
Fried Smelts But if you really feel that you must fry 
with Parsley them, then go about it in this way : First of 
all, fry some thinly sliced bacon and in its fat 
fry to a delicate brown the smelts which you 
have previously dipped in sweet, rich cream, 
and then dredged with flour to make a 
thick paste around them. Serve garnished 
with the bacon and with fried parsley. The 
frying of parsley is as you know, a somewhat 
ticklish job ; it must be perfectly dry, put 
into a frying basket and then plunged into hot 
fat for just a few minutes don't have the fat 
too hot — this is where you must think and 
act simultaneously — or the parsley will lose 
its color, and then you will have to begin all 
over again. After it is put on the dish squeeze 
a few drops of lemon juice over it. My word 



I GO A-MARKETING 169 

for it you will find this an acceptable dish, 
whether it is prepared for breakfast, luncheon 
or dinner. 

I did n't mean you to understand that I Biuefish— 
considered smelts to be the only fish in the '^^"'P'"'* 
market at present; I simply wanted to call 
your attention to them as being as good as 
any other, and a good deal better than they, 
themselves, are at any other time of year. 

Biuefish are good now, too ; they are ex- 
cellent, really, and a biuefish at its best is hard 
to beat. Have you ever tried cooking them 
in the oven ? Have them split, you know, 
as for broiling, then put them into a well- 
greased baking pan. Have ready half a cupful 
of melted butter with the juice of an onion in 
it and likewise the juice of a lemon, with a 
reasonable amount of salt and of cayenne 
pepper. Before the fish goes into the oven 
moisten it well with the prepared butter, and 
baste with the butter every ten minutes while 
it is in the oven. When it is of a good even 
brown it is done. Now, don't serve with the 
biuefish cooked in this way potatoes of any 
sort or kind. Have cucumbers, hothouse, of 
course, and have them fried. Cut them into 
thick slices and remove the seeds ; then soak 



lyo I GO A-MARKETING 

them in equal parts of ice-water and vinegar, 
well salted, for one hour. Take them out, 
drain and wipe dry and fry in boiling lard 
until a light brown. They are not only good 
when served with bluefish cooked in this way, 
but they are appetizing bits to accompany 
pork or lamb chops when you are serving 
them with a brown sauce. 

So much for to-day's fish story. As for 
meat, anybody can get good meats at any time 
of the year if they will go to a man who knows 
how to cut them, and won't insist on dickering 
with him about the price. 

Domestic ducks are now in good condition. 
You might get one of them and try preparing 
it in some new way to be used, if it's a suc- 
cess, on Thanksgiving Day. Say stuffing it 
with mushrooms ; use one can of mushrooms 
to three heaping cupfuls of stale breadcrumbs; 
one-half a cupful of melted butter, with salt 
and pepper. If the stuffing appears to be too 
dry moisten it with a bit of milk. Split the 
mushrooms and use all their liquor ; if the 
duck is too small to require the full amount 
you may add some of the mushrooms to the 
giblet gravy to be served with it. 

And there is plenty of material in market 



I GO A-MARKETING 171 

for green salads ; there are celery and lettuce, 
the standbys ; watercress, escaroUe, romaine, 
and chicory. Try this latter some time 
soon, using a plain dressing of oil, vinegar, 
salt and pepper for it, with bits of Roquefort 
cheese sprinkled oyer it. If any among you 
object to eating this cheese because of its odor, 
rest easy, for you may have at hand a counter- 
acting force in the Bar-le-Duc currants. They 
do, as you probably are aware, put the finish- 
ing touch to almost any sort of dinner, but 
when particularly strong cheese has been 
served they are nothing short of a godsend. 



To the ordinary reader the name of Bon- 
toux conveys nothing ; to the Parisian of a 
generation or two ago it was synonymous 
with all that was delightful in the way of food 
and drink. The shop over which Madame 
Bontoux presided remains in the Rue de 
I'Echelle, but Madame, herself, has been 
gathered to her forefathers. Originally she 
had been a cordon bleu, and in the early 
forties opened a small establishment in the 
Rue Montesquieu, which" establishment, if 
I mistake not, is mentioned in Sue's 



172 I GO A-MARKETING 

"Seven Cardinal Sins." Thence she moved 
to the Rue de I'Echelle, where she died. 
Acting on the whim of the moment, she 
would sell her wares only to those whom she 
liked, and those whom she did not like might 
offer her a hundred times their value in vain. 
The Rue de I'Echelle being near the Comedie 
Francaise, Rachel, who was a gourmet of the 
first water, frequently went to the shop after 
rehearsals. One afternoon she went in while 
one of the shopmen was busy packing a 
hamper for Nicholas I. Among the delica- 
cies there were a dozen magnificent quails on 
a skewer. " I want those," said Rachel in 
the imperious way she adopted now and then. 
"You will have to want, my little woman," 
replied Madame, shaking her head in her 
enormous bonnet, which seemed a fixture ; no 
one had ever seen her without it. Then 
Rachel toned down. " I will give you ten 
francs apiece for them," she said. " Not for 
ten crowns apiece," came the retort, and in a 
voice which left the great actress no doubt as 
to its meaning. 

Rachel was disappointed, and rose from her 
chair to go. Just when she had reached the 
door an idea flashed on her. She turned 



I GO A-MARKETING 173 

round and began to recite the famous lines 
from Corneille's "Horace." The effect was 
electrical on the shopman, who dropped the 
quails. Madame Bontoux was not so easily 
impressed. She kept shaking her head just 
as if to say "You may save yourself the 
trouble, my girl ; " but all of a sudden, when 
Rachel brought out the last line — 

" Moi seule en itre cause et mourir de plaisir" 

she jumped up. " Give her the dozen quails 
and a pheasant besides." Wonderful to 
relate, the enormous bonnet had got pushed 
on one side. 

Now, there 's a very pretty question to be 
discussed at your dinner table o' Sunday 
night: Were those birds a bon march'e for 
Rachel, or did Madame Bontoux, in the 
language of to-day, " get the best of the 
bargain ?" 

When you go to market in search of game 
in these days, and the marketman, leading you 
in the direction of the ice-box wherein he 
keeps his choicest wares, says, " Look at 'em ; 
ain't they beauties ? " you will be quite safe in 
acquiescing by a plain yea or a nod, but do 
not go to the extent of ordering a dozen quail, 



174 I GO A-MARKETING 

or woodcock, or snipe, or any other game 
bird, in fact, until you have ascertained if 
the legs are smooth and the quill feathers 
soft, which facts prove them to be young 
birds. Furthermore, be sure that the 
breasts are hard, firm, and well-covered with 
flesh, for this will show them to be in good 
condition. 

Once the birds arc under your roof-tree 
see to it that the cook does not draw the 
trail from the woodcock or snipe, for by all 
gourmets this is reckoned a great delicacy, 
and, by the way, though, of course, it is a 
matter of common knowledge, the heads of 
these birds are the most delicious morsels 
of all. Another point to be borne in mind 
is that when preparing game for cooking it 
should never be washed inside, but merely 
well wiped with a clean cloth. 

Partridges, grouse and quail are of so fine 
a flavor that it is little short of a criminal 
Toast for act to serve them in any way but roasted 
Game q^ broiled. If they are to be broiled and 
served on toast, then a delicious way of 
preparing the toast is to have the giblets 
boiled till they are so tender that they can 
be pounded to a paste with a little of the 



I GO A-MARKETING 175 

water in which they were boiled, and then, 
when mixed with an equal amount of butter, 
spread over the toast. This giblet butter 
may be varied to suit a variety of tastes. 
A little chopped parsley may be added, or 
a squeeze of lemon juice, or both, in which 
case a complementary dash of cayenne must 
be added. The meat of the partridge is so 
dry that it is well to serve with it a sauce 
made of melted butter, slightly seasoned 
with onion and a dash of white wine, or 
a tartar sauce is really excellent with broiled 
partridge. 

If these birds — partridges, grouse, and Same for 
quail — are to be roasted, the garnishing in ^'"■^"''s's 
either case must consist of seasoned watercress. 
With the partridge is served a bread sauce, 
but it 's a custom as old as the hills, and 
for that very reason I have tried many ex- 
periments to find a sauce more to my liking. 
I have found it, and this is the way I pre- 
pare it : half a pint of clear stock, preferably 
white, seasoned with onion juice, a bunch 
of parsley, a bay-leaf and four cloves, strained 
through a napkin before using. The birds 
will be much better if an ounce of butter is 



176 I GO A-MARKETING 

placed inside of them before cooking, and if 
they are occasionally basted with melted 
butter during the process of roasting. 

Roasted Grouse need no sauce, especially if before 
they are put into the oven they are stuffed 
with one slice of bread each which has been 
toasted and dipped in Madeira wine. They 
may be larded, or barded, or basted with 
melted butter while roasting, if it is thought 
likely to improve their flavor. 

Roasted Beware of cooks who assure you that they 
Quail know how to roast quail until you have seen 
their skill put to the test. It is a failing 
common to too many cooks to over-roast 
these dainty little birds. Fourteen to sixteen 
minutes in a hot oven is quite long enough 
to cook them to the point favored by epi- 
curean palates. They should be served on 
bread sliced and fried, and with them, if 
desired, a very little of the clear sauce above 
recommended for partridges. 

Any of the pieces left from these birds 
roasted may be daintily served with a may- 
onnaise dressing, and you may be willing to 
assert that the last state of that bird was 
better than the first. 



I GO A-MARKETING 177 

Velvet Soup. 

Sherry, Amontillado. 

Baked halibut with Parmesan cheese. 

Roasted duck with olives. 

Burgundy, Romance. 

Cauliflower with bread crumbs. 

Lettuce and cucumber salad. 

Macaroon charlotte. 

Toasted crackers. 

Cream cheese. Coffee. 

It was with the intention of preparing a 
dinner according to the above menu that I 
went about my duties *' all on a market day," 
for it seemed to me upon looking it over to 
be a dainty repast for four people, and 
one wherein neither parsimony nor extrava- 
gance held the trick hand. And a safe middle 
course in one's daily regimen tends quite as 
much to health and prosperity in individual 
and nation as does the same policy in seem- 
ingly weightier matters. 

The velvet soup is easy of accomplishment, VeWet Soup 
as one need only to have a quart of some 
simple white stock on hand, made from veal 
or poultry remnants, into which is stirred the 
minced red part of four carrots seasoned with 
pepper and salt and stewed till tender in but- 
ter, two tablespoonfuls of tapioca which has 



Halibut with 
Parmesan 



178 I GO A-MARKETING 

been soaked for four hours in cold water, and 
then let the whole boil for nearly an hour 
before straining and serving. It is not only 
easily prepared, but it is easily digested, as a 
soup should always be which precedes a rather 
rich fish course similar to that given above. 
Balled About a pound and a half of halibut, at 
eighteen cents the pound, will be required, 
and it should be boiled till tender enough to 
flake lightly ; then, if you have a rather deep 
dish, with a border of mashed potato about 
the inside, all will go smoothly. Into the 
bottom of the dish put a layer of white sauce 
made of half a pint of boiling milk, three 
ounces of butter and a little salt, thickened 
with flour; sprinkle in flakes of the fish, 
then a layer of the sauce, adding a little milk 
if it promises to be too dry, and so on till the 
dish is full, having a layer of sauce on top. 
Then scatter grated Parmesan over all, and 
brown to a tempting shade. 

With ducklings tender and toothsome, as 
they should be in this month, it is plainly 
seen that the next course is capable of being a 
pece de r'esistance at a far more stately affair 
even than the one which we are considering. 
But if they are roasted in the ordinary way 



I GO A-MARKETING 179 

known to every housekeeper in the land, 
stuflFed with bread crumbs, highly seasoned, 
and have a giblet sauce, quite an extraordinary 
flavor will be given them if, just before serv- 
ing, half a pint of pitted and quartered olives Roasted Duch 
are added to the sauce. It's only a trifling «"'** O/'^^* 
addition to the old way, you see, but the im- 
provement is so great you will wonder 
that every one does n't know of the gastronom- 
ical harmony existing between duck and olives. 
Now, the flavor of the ducks is so rich 
and altogether satisfying that it takes only 
the simplest and mildest-flavored vegetable to 
complement this course. And nothing will 
answer the purpose better than cauliflower. 
If they are cut into pieces of uniform size, 
they cook in a much more satisfactory 
manner, and they should boil as gently 
as possible ; do not add the salt to the 
water till they are nearly tender. When 
taking them up, drain well, and over all pour 
melted butter thickened with browned bread- 
crumbs, and send to table. I fancy you will 
find them more to your liking served in this 
way than in the old rutty way of so many 
cooks, namely, with a white sauce, which 
varies in different households from a fair 



i8o I GO A-MARKETING 

quality of flour paste to a very rich and fairly 
cloying concoction of cream and melted 
butter. 

There is nothing like a simple salad to 
pt-epare one's palate for the sweets which come 
at the last, and with hothouse cucumbers now 
in evidence and lettuce always with us, the 
making of a salad is a delight in more ways 
than one. It is not so many years ago that 
we had to pay from thirty-five to fifty cents 
each for cucumbers at this season of the year, 
but the large number of cucumber hothouses 
near every city is fast bringing this desirable 
vegetable to a state where it will be known 
as an all-the-year-round commodity. 
Macaroon There are a good many people, and the 
number is increasing, who declare that to them 
a dinner is finished by a bit of cheese after the 
salad, and finished quite to their satisfaction, 
too. But for those whose dinner is incom- 
plete without a bit of sweetness, I would 
recommend a macaroon charlotte made by 
lining a dish with broken macaroons and then 
filling the dish with whipped cream which has 
been sweetened and flavored to taste ; adding 
to it at last half a pound of crystallized 
cherries. 



Charlotte 



I GO A-MARKETING i8i 

As to the wines, of course, it 's a matter of 
purse and principle whether or not they 
shall be served. I have suggested the kinds 
appropriate to the courses, for the reason that 
I have heard many a hostess " on hospitable 
thoughts intent" wonder "what wine goes 
with what" 



To be sure, I went a-marketing t' other 
day, and I was able to collect a stock of 
valuable information which I came home 
prepared to dish up for the delectation of 
any who chose to read and profit by it. 
But by some chance, or mischance, it oc- 
curred to me that All-Hallows Eve is near 
at hand, and that when it comes you girls 
will be up to all sorts of pranks. Now, 
years and years ago I was a girl myself, and 
I can dimly recall that the playing of pranks 
on the fairies' anniversary night induced a 
desire for liquid refreshment, either for the 
purpose of chirking up one's spirits when the 
omens proved unfavorable or for helping out 
the general merry-making when the signs 
foretold bliss. 

And a drink that seemed to me at that 



i82 I GO A-MARKETING 

Claret Tipple time apropos of either event we used to make 
by slicing half a dozen juicy apples and three 
lemons as a starting point. Then we would 
lay them alternately in a large bowl, sprink- 
ling each layer plentifully with sugar, and 
over all would pour a quart of claret. Then 
we would let it stand for fully six hours, pour 
it through a muslin bag, and it was ready for 
use. 
Hot Spiced If you desire a hot drink, and it is likely 
Claret ^j^^j. ^^^ ^-j]^ j£ ^.j^g tricks you have on hand 

call you out of doors at midnight, you might 
prepare one in this way : Have half-a-dozen 
lumps of sugar, the juice of half a lemon, four 
whole allspice, two whole cloves and half a 
teaspoonful of greund cinnamon in a dish; 
over it pour half a pint of claret and let it boil 
for just two minutes, stirring it all the time. 
Strain it into hot glasses and grate just a little 
nutmeg on top as you serve it. At the first 
sip the good qualities of this libation will pre- 
sent themselves to you. 
Hot Claret And for an encore you might vary it a little 
Egg-nog i^jj. jj^ ^.j^jg ^g^y., gjjj. toggti^gr two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, the juice of half a lemon, 
half a teaspoonful of mixed spices and half a 
pint of claret. Boil this for two minutes and 



I GO A-MARKETING 183 

then pour it over the yolks of two eggs that 
have been beaten well with a teaspoonful of 
sugar. Stir all the while that you are pouring 
the wine slowly over the eggs. Grate a little 
nutmeg over the top after you have poured 
the mixture into hot glasses. Now mind, 
don't get confused and pour the eggs into the 
wine, for that would spoil everything ; pour 
the wine over the eggs. And be thankful 
that you have lived long enough to concoct 
such a satisfying drink as this always proves 
itself to be. 

But if you feel that you must find a use for Hot Sherry 
the whites of the eggs dissolve a tablespoonful ^99-"og 
of powdered sugar in half a pint of hot water, 
add to it half a pint of sherry wine and let 
this come to a boil. Meanwhile have the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a froth and pour 
the hot mixture over them, stirring rapidly. 
Pour into hot glasses, grating a bit of nutmeg 
over the top of each. See to it that the ves- 
sel in which you boil the wine is thoroughly 
clean. You don't want even the faintest trace 
of a taste of anything besides the ingredients 
herein prescribed. 

An orange punch is n't just the innocent 
tipple that its name would seem to indicate. 



i84 I GO A-MARKETING 



Orange But that does n't hinder its being a treat for 
Punch ^YiQ palate. Infuse the peel of three and the 
juice of six oranges with three-quarters of a 
pound of loaf sugar in two quarts of boiling 
water for half an hour. Strain and add to 
the juice a half pint of brandy and a liqueur 
glass of maraschino. And it is quite likely 
that you will think it needs a litde more 
sugar ; if so, add it. Now it may be that 
you will like this hot, or it may be that you 
will like it cold ; in the latter case cool it on 
the ice for several hours before serving or ice 
it when serving. This is also an excellent 
recipe for lemon punch — substituting lemons 
for the oranges. 
Cider Punch If you really long for drinks which seem 
suitable for days the "saddest of the year," 
why then see to it that your cider jug is 
filled with sweet cider as a prerequisite, and 
go ahead. Call your first effort a cider punch. 
Peel a lemon and pour half a pint of sherry 
on the peeling ; to the juice of the lemon add 
a cupful of sugar, a little grated nutmeg and 
a quart of cider. Mix this together thorough- 
ly and then add to it the rind of the lemon 
and the sherry. Let it get perfectly cold on 
the ice, or if you are short of time ice it when 



I GO A-MARKETING 185 

serving. Now if you wish to make this punch 
a bit more insidious you can easily do so by 
adding to it a wineglass of brandy. It will 
be quite as palatable also, I think you will 
find. 

And then cider egg-nog is well worth the Cider 
making and the drinking. Use a large glass ; 39-nog 
beat up in it an egg and a scant teaspoonful 
of sugar ; put in half a dozen small lumps of 
ice, fill the glass with cider and grate a little 
nutmeg on top. This is not only a very 
pleasant drink, but it is an extremely whole- 
some one. It will act as a pick-me-up many 
times when one is tired or not feeling quite 
up to the mark. 

Another delicious potation that will be Quinoe 
found of use at all sorts of occasions is quince ''"®'"' 
liqueur. Grate a sufficient number of quinces 
to make a quart of juice after it is squeezed 
through a jelly bag. With this juice mix a 
pound of sugar, six ounces of bitter almonds, 
bruised, a dozen whole cloves and a gill of 
brandy. Mix these all well together and set 
away in a demijohn for ten days at least. 
Then strain it through the jelly bag till it 
is perfectly clear, and bottle for use. Be- 
sides drinking this as a liqueur, you will find 



i86 I GO A-MARKETING 

that you can vary and improve a number 
of your recipes for punch by adding just a 
suspicion of it to them. 
Various Cups At all times cups are alluring decoctions, 
don't you think ? And there are many vari- 
eties of them. But they all begin in the same 
way. A cordial glass each of maraschino, 
benedictine and brandy put into a quart jug, 
and then if you fill the jug with champagne 
you have champagne cup, with Rhine wine 
you have Rhine wine cup, and with cider you 
have cider cup. If you use claret you add 
a few drops of lemon juice and double the 
quantity of maraschino. 
Rhine Wine But it may be that you prefer to take your 
Seltzer Rhj^e wine with seltzer ; if so, just half fill 
the glass with the wine and pour enough 
seltzer to fill it. Both the wine and the seltzer 
should be kept on the ice for some little time 
before using. 
Ginger If after all this array of non-temperance 
Lemonade drinks you feel that you should turn 
your attention to something milder, and 
yet can't quite make up your mind to clear 
cold water, why not try a ginger lemonade ? 
Have a teaspoonfiil of powdered sugar in a 
tumbler, add to it the juice of half a lemon 



I GO A-MARKETING 187 

and fill the tumbler with ginger ale that has 
been well iced. You will find this a pleasant 
change from the ordinary lemonade, and for 
many persons it serves to make ginger ale a 
deal more palatable. 

Now, if you should feel that you would Soda 
like to serve a drink that is as innocent and (^o<>l^<"i 
harmless as so much milk, but that when 
judged by its name alone seems to be intended, 
oh, my ! for very dissipated persons, indeed ! 
let me suggest to you a soda cocktail. Fill a 
glass with lemon soda, put into it a dash of 
raspberry syrup and on top of it a thin slice 
of orange. And, your very good health. 



NOVEMBER 



" From our onun sel'ves our joys mustfloiu. 
And that dear hut our home" 



ONCE upon a time, a somebody who 
was famous for his or her wit or 
wisdom, or for both qualities, re- 
marked that oftentimes the easiest and best 
way to get over a difficulty was to go round 
it. To my great regret, I can't give you the 
name of the author of the very pithy saying, 
neither can I tell you just what conditions 
called it forth, but it 's safe to say that its 
context was a suggestion or opinion offered 
for the settling of some great big question of 
state. But, what is more to the point, I can 
be of help in showing you, I hope, how to 
make a practical application of the epigram to 
every-day affairs. Because, just as sure as we 
are living, there is always a way to go round 
if one can't get over the very toughest hands 
that one gets in life's shuffle. 

Now, there 's the servant-girl question in 
its Sunday-night aspect. It exists ; it can't 
be wiped out ; and it is impossible to ignore 
it. She, or they, as the case may be, will have 



I GO A-MARKETING 189 

"the evening out," come what may, and 
guests are pretty sure to come o' Sunday 
nights. Of course you can't send them home 
supperless, and neither can you send your 
family to bed in a semi-famished condition. 
No ; you must go round the situation. And 
it's not so hard. Indeed, my last trip to 
market, which included a call at the grocer's, 
was for the express purpose of picking up 
points that would make the circuit easy for 
you. 

I 'm not going to say a word, here, about 
the chafing-dish. And I will tell you why. 
It is the custom in a large number of families 
for the man of the house to preside at the 
chafing-dish Sunday nights, and while my 
stock of book-learning is very diminutive, I 
have learned that under no circumstances is 
it wise to offer suggestions to a man who 
thinks he can cook. 

Frequently it is easy to have some little 
dish left ready by the cook which needs only 
to be heated before it is served, but in nine 
households out of ten cold viands are the staple 
commodity. And the singular sameness is 
surprising and saddening. If one is in the 
habit of dropping in to " pot luck " at the 



I90 I GO A-MARKETING 

houses of one's iniimes, one soon learns to 
reckon with a fair degree of certainty upon 
what will be likely to be set before one. 

Now, there are sandwiches. Once let a 
housekeeper acquire a reputation for a partic- 
ular brand of that edible, and it 's like getting 
her to change her religion to induce her to 
try making any other sort. But it requires 
only a very little time, with a fair amount of 
common sense, to have a sandwich repertoire 
that will enable one to get through a fairly 
long season without repetitions. 
Caviare The next time you are to have caviare sand- 

Sandwiches vpiches, try using brown-bread, sliced as thinly 
as possible, spread with unsalted butter, and 
then with a layer of caviare and a sprinkling 
of lemon juice. And you will find them as 
good as they are uncommon. 
Oyster Then there are oyster sandwiches. Cook 

Sandwiches ^hg oysters a bit, or till they are firm, then 
when they are cool stir them into good stiff 
mayonnaise, with a seasoning of red pepper 
and just a few capers. Spread day-old bread 
with this mixture and finish off, sandwich 
fashion. You can use cold fish of any sojt 
in this way ; having the bits very small, and 
adding chopped gherkins to the mayonnaise. 



I GO A-MARKETING 191 



And, better yet, use in this way any bits of Fish and 

Game 
Sandwiches 



cold game, or poultry, using with them chop- '"^ 



ped olives and chopped truffles. In either 
case, you may if you like lay a lettuce 
leaf on the bread and put the mixture on that. 
But for myself I have always disliked the 
addition of lettuce to sandwiches. 

It is very easy to have savory butters. Savory 
"beurres composes," so familiar to the French ^"***" 
cuisine, and so give an infinite variety of 
taste to any kind of sandwiches. Take, for 
instance, unsalted butter and season it well 
with anchovy essence, some very finely 
chopped parsley, a bit of paprika, and spread 
thin slices of bread with it and then use a 
layer of any kind of cold meat. Or you 
can use shrimp essence, or in fact any essence 
or sauce that you think would prove to be a 
favorite. 

One of the most palatable ways, it seems to Crust 
me, in which to make sandwiches is to take Sandwiches 
paste, not pufF paste that is too rich, and roll 
it out as thinly as possible; cut it into 
rounds of uniform size spread around with a 
certain mixture, then cover it with another 
round of the paste, pinch the edges together 
and bake them till they are brown. As to 



192 I GO A-MARKETING 

the mixtures, they may be made of an end- 
less number of savory viands. Say bloater 
paste softened so that it will spread easily 
with a little melted butter. And then there 
are all sorts of potted meats and devilled 
things that seem almost as if they were made 
expressly to be used in this way. Believe me, 
you will find these sandwiches ever so dainty 
if you get them small enough and thin 
enough, and, by the way, they make a capital 
appointment for the five-o'clock tea-table. 
Sweet Now for the sweet sandwiches. They may 
Sandwiches ^g j^^de with either white bread, cake, or 
wafers — preferably the last. Have some 
icing made by your favorite rule and sprinkle 
into it chopped nuts of any kind and spread 
the wafers with it. Or, use chopped crystal- 
lized fruits and cherries preserved in mara- 
schino ; and then try, the next time you make 
this sort of sweets, some brandied fruits with 
the icing. You might make a chocolate 
icing and add to that some chopped 
pistachios or almonds or preserved ginger. 
But surely you 've enough now in the way of 
a ground plan for the making of any number 
of dainty and appetizing bouchees. 

Just a word about jellied things. You 



I GO A-MARKETING 193 

can have a pint of stock, white if possible, 
season it with an onion, a bay-leaf, a bit of 
thyme, a clove, and pepper and salt. Then 
put in a good half-ounce of dissolved gela- 
tine ; and turn about one quarter of it, after 
straining, into a mould and set on ice to 
cool. Have the rest of the jelly in a liquid Savory Jelly 
state, but perfectly cold. When that in the 
mould is set, have any sort of cold meat, 
chicken, turkey, ham or tongue cut into 
strips free of skin and bone, and pack it 
into the mould with alternate layers of the 
jelly, finishing with the latter. Now see how 
successful you can be in making such a dish a 
joy to the eye. Use sliced olives, gherkins, 
capers, truffles, fanciful shapes of beet or any- 
thing that your artistic eye will permit, and 
sprinkle these through the dish as you go 
along. Run a thin knife blade in between 
the jelly and mould and then plunge the 
mould into boiling water and the jelly will 
unmould easily. 

Then there are salads. To make one of Cheese Salad 
cheese rub the yolk of a hard-boiled egg in a 
basin with a tablespoonful of salad oil ; 
add one teaspoonfiil of salt, a bit of cayenne 
and a little made mustard ; when all is well 

13 



194 I GO A-MARKETING 

mixed stir in about half a pound of grated 
Parmesan cheese, the juice of an onion, and a 
tablespoon of vinegar. Serve on lettuce 
leaves. You will find that this will go par- 
ticularly well with sandwiches of bloater paste. 

But for a salad to be served with a jellied 
meat, make one of nuts, one kind or several, 
broken into bits, mixed with an equal quanti- 
ty of sliced olives and spread with only a very 
little mayonnaise. 

I did want to tell you of ways to make 
some very appetizing beverages, for the sort 
of occasions we are discussing, but they will 
have to wait. And perhaps it 's just as well ; 
already my conscience is troubling me for fear 
that you are going to be so taken up with the 
goodies I have told you of that you will have 
no inclination to think on "better things" 
when it comes Sunday. But it can't be 
helped now. 



Last spring a certain Boston man with 
his family moved into the country. Not 
so far out, however, but that he could 
come to town daily to attend to business, and 
yet far enough from the gilded dome to be 



I GO A-MARKETING 195 

able to buy sufficient land for a small farm 
without paying all creation for it. The next 
move was the stocking of the farm. So a 
Jersey cow was bought to keep the family 
supplied with cream, a flock of prize hens 
was set at work in a bran new henhouse that 
there might be fresh eggs on hand, and last 
but not least, a pair of tiny young pigs were 
secured to provide the household with sweet, 
home-made pork when winter should set in. 
And having secured the stock, the owner pro- 
ceeded at once to make pets, collectively and 
individually, of the whole equipment. Actual- 
ly the cow would manage to look half-way 
intelligent when he stroked her neck and told 
her she was the sort that deserved to live in 
clover the year round; the hens really did 
add a note to their regular cackle when the 
master was about, to show him that they knew 
who gave them heaping measures of grain, 
and the pigs, which he called Tim and Jim, 
got in no time to know their names when they 
were spoken by his voice. Well, cold wea- 
ther came on and with it those crisp, frosty 
mornings when a toothsomely seasoned sau- 
sage with a potato puree makes an ideal 
breakfast. So Tim and Jim went the way of 



196 I GO A-MARKETING 

all pork, and in due course of time their 
owner had the satisfaction of seeing on his 
own breakfast table pork " of his own raising." 
And what do you think happened then ? 

" Susan," said he to his wife, " I can't do 
it ; if you will believe me, I can't eat that 
pork. Give it away — give it all away. Never 
have any more put on this table. Why, dash 
it all, Susan, I may be a ninny, but I was 
actually fond of Tim and Jim, and don't see 
what I was thinking of when I had them 
killed." 

" Samuel," said the wife, a woman who 
knew how and when to point a moral, " you 
needn't call yourself a ninny; be thankful 
for the feeling you have, because it can give 
you a glimpse, though from afar oiF, of the 
mighty power that will make of us a nation of 
vegetarians, if we ever do become such." 

And I, when I heard of this little episode, 
fell to wondering if it would be such terribly 
hard lines after all to be put on a strictly vege- 
tarian diet. At any rate, I managed to turn 
out one dinner, sans fish, sans flesh, sans fowl, 
that did n't appear in the least like a substitute 
for something better. You shall have the 
menu: 



I GO A-MARKETING 197 

Consomme with asparagus points. 
Mushroom cannelons. Poached eggs with tomato. 
Macaroni with cheese. 

String beans with butter. 
Walnut salad. 
Lemon souffle. CoiFee. 

As I was determined to be thoroughly Consomme 
conscientious in the preparation of this dinner, ""*'' 

, r 1 • r 1 Asparagus 

using stock tor the soup was quite out or the 
question, so I prepared it in this way : A 
couple of onions, a carrot and a bunch of 
herbs fried in plenty of butter till of a good 
brown. Add to them a bunch of celery 
chopped, with salt and pepper for seasoning, 
and a tiny bit of sugar. Cover with water 
and boil till the vegetables are quite tender. 
Strain and add to the liquid a dash of sherry, a 
few drops of lemon juice and some asparagus 
points that have been cooked by themselves 
till tender. Of course, the asparagus you will 
buy in tins or glass just now, but for use in 
this way it is quite as good as though freshly 
cut. You will be surprised, I fancy, when 
you see how savory a soup you have turned 
out. 

It isn't often that we feel justified in buying 
fresh mushrooms at this time of year, but at a 



198 I GO A-MARKETING 

Cannelons of dinner of this sort where one is not obliged to 
Mushrooms ^^^ f^j. ^ g^^^j^. ^j. f^j. game, one can afford to 

be a little bit reckless in the matter of vege- 
tables, especially when they are to be put to 
such a delicious use as the making of can- 
nelons. Coarsely mince a pound or so of 
well-wiped mushrooms and toss them with a 
little minced parsley in butter till nicely 
browned ; then season with white pepper and 
salt, adding a little more butter to moisten 
the mushrooms till they are quite cooked. 
Then stir in — oiF the fire — the yolks of 
three eggs, a squeeze of lemon juice, and set 
the whole aside to cool. Roll out some puff 
or very short paste thin, cut it out in oblongs, 
put a good spoonful of the mushroom mixture 
on each oblong, roll these up like sausages, 
moistening the edges to make them adhere, 
brush them over with egg and fry in plenty 
of oil or in butter. For myself, I prefer the 
oil, and the using of oil for frying purposes 
is n't the extravagant act that it seems at the 
first flush to be, because it wastes very little 
and can be used repeatedly for different 
purposes. 

The cannelons are to be served with the 



I GO A-MARKETING 199 

poached eggs and tomato. And the directions 
for preparing the latter dish are to be found 
elsewhere in this book. 

The macaroni with cheese you know all Macaroni 
about, I dare say. Is this your way of doing ""*'' ^^^^^^ 
it ? Break the macaroni into two-inch lengths 
and drop into boiling salted water. When it 
is quite tender pour cold water over it, drain 
and stir about in plenty of melted butter till 
each piece is well covered, then put into a 
baking-dish, strew grated Parmesan cheese 
over it and let brown in a hot oven. Just a 
little bit of cayenne added to the cheese 
improves the flavor wonderfully, to my 
thinking. 

You can find green string beans at the string Beans 
provisioner's yet, or you can get them tinned, ""^^ ^""®'' 
as you choose. I shall not presume to advise 
you as to that, but for the cooking of them I 
will say a word or two. Boil them till per- 
fectly tender, then drain well and place 
them in a pan with a tablespoonful or more 
of fine herbs (minced chives or minced shallot 
and parsley), with pepper, salt and lemon 
juice and two ounces of butter; toss them 
over the fire till the butter is melted and 
serve. 



200 I GO A-MARKETING 

Perhaps this is n't the place to go into a 
discussion of the circumstances that have 
landed us as a nation at a point where we 
think we must have turkey on Thanksgiving 
Day, or be accused of showing a disrespect 
for the Declaration of Independence. But 
some time the matter will be attacked by some- 
body who will spend a decade or so in the 
Astor Library or the Boston Athenaeum to 
discover who said " turkey " first and where 
they said it. Evidently it was said in one 
of those voices that are heard around the 
world and its echoes have not begun to 
diminish, so far as my ear can detect, even 
yet. So turkey it is, I suppose. 
Grape Fruit But this little talk shall be of the addenda 
with Rum ^f j.jjg dinner. Know what addenda means, 
don't you ? Well, call them " fixin's," then. 
Nowadays grap'e fruit is a hard and fast 
" fixin' " of a Thanksgiving Day dinner. 
Before the soup it comes on cut in halves 
with the seeds removed and also all of the 
white pith in the centre of each half with a 
pair of sharp scissors. Then by the taste of 
them it is evident that about an hour before 
they were put on the table they had a lump 
of sugar and a teaspoonful of rum put into 



I GO A-MARKETING 201 

each half, after which little refection they 
reposed on the ice till wanted. Don't go on 
the principle that if a little rum is good more 
must be better and try to float the fruit in — 
that would have been hailed as a rank outrage 
even by Captain Shaddock himself — but just 
be content to see how potent a little bit of 
rum can be in good company. 

If you want a grape fruit sorbet, think- Grape Fruit 
ing it best to begin your dinner with Sorbet 
oysters, you may pick out the pulp with a 
fork in sizable bits, free from seeds and pith, 
cover these bits with sherry and with a sprink- 
ling of sugar and freeze. You know the 
rest — how to serve it and the like. But you 
may be firm in the conviction that when grape 
fruit comes to your table it does n't make its 
appearance till dessert. If so, you will allow 
me to put in just a word, won't you ? The Fruit Salad 
word is to advise you to get the pulp out as 
recommended for the sorbet, mix with it an 
equal quantity of Malaga grapes cut in halves 
with seeds removed, covered with sugar and 
sherry and iced for three or four hours before 
serving. 

I don't know whether it is true or not but 
it seems to me more than likely that the mush- 



202 I GO A-MARKETING 

room hunters for science' sake are doing " us 
folks " who like good things to eat a kind 
turn by getting out so many books on the 
subject of good, bad, and indifferent sorts. 
At any rate, they are getting to be more plen- 
tifiil every year and consequently should be 
lower in price. Thanksgiving Day seems to 
be a pretty appropriate time for having them. 
You must spread yourself on that day, even 
if you live on bread and cheese for the rest 
of the month. Have them then and by them- 
selves after the table is cleared of the " bird and 
its fixin's," and have them in croquettes. 



Of course, you knew just what to have for 
dinner on Thanksgiving Day, and if perchance 
you did n't there were plenty at hand to tell 
you how the menu should be composed. So 
just let me advise you how to prepare two or 
three dishes, to be called Thanksgiving en 
rhhauffiey if it will make things seem any more 
prosperous to you. 

Yes, I shall begin with turkey, because in 
nine families out often, or perhaps ninety-and- 
nine out of a hundred would be a closer esti- 
mate, that bird formed the pihce de risistanee. 



I GO A-MARKETING 203 

You know that if there's plenty to "go Broiled 

round " at the first serving of a turkey the ^'"''"'' '■^^^ 

legs are generally left untouched ; the carver 

does n't feel like giving them to any one, and 

when it comes to waiting on himself he thinks 

he is entitled to a choicer bit. And so he is. 

But you can use those legs all in good time. 

Just gash them three or four times with a 

very sharp knife, sprinkle them over with 

salt, pepper and a few drops of lemon juice 

and broil them over a hot fire till browned 

well ; put them on a hot dish, pour a little 

melted butter over them and send to table. 

They will go uncommonly well, say for a 

Sunday morning breakfast to help out with a 

bacon omelet. 

But if they are to do duty at luncheon. Broiled 
devil them before broiling. Season them with ^^"1"^'',^ 
salt and pepper and then rub lightly with 
mustard which has been mixed with oil. Turn 
the legs often while they are broiling, basting 
them once in a while with a little melted but- 
ter. When they are dished pour a little rich 
brown gravy over them. And with them 
cooked in this way serve a potato omelet. 
Pardon the digression, and I will tell you how 
this is made. It may not prove a digression. 



204 I GO A-MARKETING 

however, as it is quite possible that you had a 
sufficient quantity of mashed potato left from 
the Thanksgiving Day dinner to make it. 
But if you didn't, boil four large potatoes 

Potato and when soft mash them ; beat four eggs 
'"^'®* with a cup of milk, mix it with the potatoes 
and season with salt and white pepper. Cut 
four or five ounces of bacon into tiny squares, 
fry till crisp and brown, then mix in the 
potatoes and stir over the fire till they are 
heated through. Let brown well, fold the 
omelet over and serve. 

If there is a considerable quantity of the 

Hiinced white meat of the turkey left over cut it up 

Turhey with jntQ dice-shaped bits and add to it half its 
Mushrooms • r j i 

quantity or canned mushrooms cut in two ; 

moisten well with bechamel sauce, season with 

pepper and salt and let heat for ten minutes, 

but don't stir it. Dish it on triangular pieces 

of toasted white bread. Or, if you like, you 

may use in place of the bechamel sauce, cream 

and butter ; but, whatever amount of cream is 

used, let it heat till it reduces to one-half. 

A more savory hash may be made in this 

way : Use any or all bits of the turkey and 

chop them rather finely ; add a little chopped 

parsley, a few drops of lemon juice, the juice 



I GO A-MARKETING 205 

of an onion or two, and white stock enough Uinced 
to moisten it sufficiently. Let it simmer for '"''''^y 
half an hour very slowly and then add a 
little white wine just before taking up. If 
you are in the habit of using wine in cooking 
you will know all about how much it will 
require to give just the right flavor; but if 
you are pledged to abstain from such practices 
you won't want to know and you won't need 
to know how much should be used, so I '11 
not go into particulars. 

But perhaps for good and sufficient reasons Goose Pie 
you did n't have turkey at all but had roasted 
goose, and if that is so please do use up the 
tidbits by making a goose pie. Cut all the 
meat from the bones and put the bones with 
the skin into a saucepan with a little water to 
boil slowly for two hours. Let it cool, and 
skim off all the fat ; into the bottom of a deep 
dish put a scanty layer of boiled and mashed 
onions ; sprinkle well with salt and pepper, 
put in a layer of the goose meat, then a 
layer of the onions, and so on till the dish 
is filled. Pour in the water in which the 
bones were boiled, cover with a good crust 
and bake in a moderate oven till the crust 
is done. 



2o6 I GO A-MARKETING 

stewed Let me tell you also that stewed goose is 
Goose ijy. jjQ means a slow sort of dish. In fact, it 
is reckoned by a good many as being among 
the joys of earth. Take two onions, peel 
and chop, and put them in a saucepan with 
a tablespoonful of butter and fry until soft; 
dredge them with flour and stir in half a 
pint or so of the water in which the bones of 
the goose have been boiled. Cut up into 
dice-shaped pieces any or all of the cold 
cooked goose and put it into the saucepan 
with a wineglass of white wine and a table- 
spoonful of vinegar,and season to taste with salt 
and pepper. Cover closely and stew for half 
an hour slowly. Turn out and serve very hot. 
Baked It is more than probable that, what- 

Squash gyg^ glse you had for dinner, you saw fit to 
have in addition squash boiled and mashed. 
And it is safe to say that some of it was 
left. So take this remnant and heat it well 
with plenty of butter over the fire and then 
put it into a baking dish. Scatter Parmesan 
cheese over the top and brown it very quickly 
in a hot oven. Serve this with your stewed 
goose, and the trick is yours. 

And suppose you had ducks for your din- 
ner, could you find a better way than this 



I GO A-MARKETING 207 

to serve up what was left of them ? Cut as Broiled 
good-sized pieces as you can and dip them '^"^'< ^'"^^^ 
in a little melted butter ; season with pepper sauce 
and salt, and broil for a minute or so over 
a hot fire. Arrange the pieces on a hot 
dish and pour over them a sauce made in 
this way : Fry two or three slices of fat 
bacon and an onion together for five min- 
utes ; add the juice of an orange and a wine- 
glass of port or sherry wine with what salt 
and pepper is needed. Strain it before 
using. You will find this so delectable, I 
dare say, that you will be ready to declare 
that the last days of those ducks were better 
than the first. 

Did you ever make a duck salad in this Duck Salad 
way ? Rub the bottom of the salad bowl 
with a peeled onion, and squeeze in a few 
drops of lemon juice. Put the cold bits of 
duck in the bowl with what you consider a 
suitable amount of chopped whites of boiled 
eggs ; over this sprinkle a few quartered 
olives and a handful or so of capers, and 
then put in a layer of chopped watercresses. 
Cover this with a layer of mayonnaise and 
serve. Now if you want to use a little 
turkey meat, or a little goose meat, or a little 



2o8 I GO A-MARKETING 

of each, to eke out what you have of cold duck, 
go right ahead and do so. The salad will be 
just as good as when duck alone is used and 
perhaps some will think it even better. 
Fish Salad Did n't you have a boiled or even a 
broiled fish of some kind for your dinner, 
either halibut, striped bass, or fresh cod? 
If you did, just take what was left of it and 
flake it up daintily ; put a layer of it in a 
salad bowl that has been rubbed with an 
onion, sprinkle the fish with salt and lemon 
juice, put in a layer of shredded lettuce, dress- 
ing this also with lemon juice and salt, another 
layer of the fish and lastly one of lettuce. 
Cover it all with a layer of tartar sauce, and 
there you have a salad worth the eating. 
'T would n't tempt a dying anchorite, perhaps, 
but it 's quite good enough for human nature's 
daily food. 



DECEMBER 

" And 'we meet, luith champagne and chicken, at last." 

ANY one can go to market if she has 
the wherewithal and secure any kind 
^ of game that happens to be on the list 
and be happy in the purchase and eating of 
itj I dare say. But the happiest dames in these 
times are those who have a husband or sweet- 
heart in the field shooting straight to the 
mark with all thoughts for the recipient of his 
day's work. So it comes to pass that by ex- 
press to many a door there come on these 
fine crisp mornings boxes or hampers of game 
birds. The next thing, of course, is to get 
one's neighbors in to partake of them in order 
that they may be set by the ears with envy. 
I am with you. I will help you to make this 
envy business complete while you are about it. 

There shall be a dinner given — a dinner 
which by a wise and palatable arrangement of 
courses shall lead up to the game. 

Now, you know all about scallops, of 
course — and by "all" you mean fried and 
served with tartar sauce. Bah ! to you and 

14 



aio I GO A-MARKETING 

your stereotyped dishes. Novelty I beg of 

you, and then put in your way the means 

to do as I beg. Do you appreciate it, I 

wonder? I doubt it. 

Scallops in Well, then, scallops after the bouillon. 

Sheila Cook them in a little white wine till you 

know they are done. Then drain, cut them 

in halves or in quarters and add to them 

half their quantity of minced onion fried till 

tender, but not brown. Moisten with a little 

white sauce, season with cayenne and salt, 

heap in scallop shells, cover with bread-crumbs 

moistened with melted butter and brown in 

the hottest oven you can arrange. 

Whereas it is agreed that the pleasure of a 

repast must be continuous — not jerky — let 

us plan for the next dish at your luncheon 

Salmi of salmis of partridge, cold. The birds must be 

_ . . ° roasted and then cooled. Cut them into neat 
Partridge 

pieces, removing all the skin. Boil the skin 
and all the odd bits in a little red wine and 
water. Season with salt and a bay-leaf and 
thicken after it has boiled five minutes with 
a little flour braided with butter. Take it 
off, lift out all the pieces of meat and add 
enough aspic jelly to stiffen it. Set on ice 
and beat till stiff, then dip into it the neatly 



I GO A-MARKETING 211 

trimmed pieces of partridge. Dress them on 
a dish, using chop frills for the legs and set 
on ice till the time comes for serving. 

At this sort of a luncheon you know you 
must have two dishes of game and to let the 
first one be cold is doing the matter up as not 
one neighbor in ten of yours would think of 
doing. 

Now for the next link In this gastronomical chicken Liver 
harmony. Let it be chicken liver patties. Pa^'es 
You know how to make the puff paste and 
how to line the pans with it. Then you cook 
the desired number of chicken livers till ten- 
der, drain off the water, cover them with a rich 
Spanish sauce in which are as many sliced 
truffles as your means will allow. Of course 
this must be hot when the patty pans are 
filled with it and then the patties must be hot 
when they go to table. 

Now make way for the piice de rhistance. Roasted Teal 
What shall it be ? He sent you blue-winged 
teal duck, you say ? Could n't be better. 
His intentions towards you are of the best, 
you may depend. His blue-winged teal go 
where his heart is every time, let me tell you. 
Into each bird you will put a slice or two of 
toasted bread which has been soaked in any 



212 I GO A-MARKETING 

red wine. Rub the inside of the bird well 
with salt. Roast in a piping hot oven for 
twenty minutes, basting five times with melted 
butter. Garnish with sliced lemon when 
serving. 
Tomatoes You will want tomato with celery and 
Stuffed with mayonnaise for this course, you know. 
and Celery Have large, firm, fine tomatoes peeled care- 
fully. Then cut a round out of the top 
of each and scoop out all the seeds. Keep 
the round whole, by the way. Fill each 
tomato with celery chopped and mixed with 
mayonnaise. Clap on the top in which you 
have cut a tiny hole in the centre and in 
this hole stick a little sprig of tender green 
celery. 
Macaroon Only macaroon custards are good enough 
Custards to be served at this point and these you make 
by covering half a pound of macaroons with 
hot cream first. When cool, beat well. Then 
add the yolks and whites beaten separately of 
six eggs and a tablespoonful of brandy. Butter 
some moulds, fill with the mixture and bake 
for ten minutes. Unmould on lace paper 
before serving. Yes, of course, have them 
cold. "Who wants hot custard ? 

For a drink ? Cider cup. Not here, but 



I GO A-MARKETING 213 

elsewhere, a page or two away, will you find 
directions for making this decoction. 



A few pages back I related an account of 
some of the happenings of my trip to market 
in search of game birds of the smaller kinds. 
Appended to this recital were given in a more 
or less appetizing fashion a few directions for 
preparing the birds which it seemed to me 
must find favor with epicures and laymen 
alike ; and, assuming that approval was ac- 
corded these recipes, of which some were 
begged, others borrowed and more stolen, I 
am giving herewith hints for use in the 
preparation of the larger birds to be had 
now, with honors easy as to quantity and 
quality. As to price, you may pay what you 
will, almost, from seventy-five cents up to 
three and four and even five dollars per pair. 

To begin with, there are the toothsome 
canvas-backs that lead in price and palate- 
tickling properties. Now, I know quite as 
well as you that not every one who pleases 
may dine from canvas-back when fancy dic- 
tates ; in fact, with nine out of ten house- 



214 I GO A-MARKETING 

holders something very like a dispute takes 
place between the purse and the palate in 
every instance where canvas-back forms the 
piece de resistance at dinner. But the next 
time the palate wins in the debate go straight- 
way to market and secure its indulgence 
from a marketman who will give you his 
oath that the canvas-backs he has on sale 
have fed on the banks where the wild celery 
grows, i. e., along the Gunpowder River, a 
tributary of the Chesapeake Bay, and you 
may feel sure that you have the best the 
market affords. 

As to the cooking. Wasn't it that 
wholly delightful old Colonel Carter who 
laid it down as a law that to smother a 
canvas-back in jelly of any sort or descrip- 
tion was little short of criminal ? And that 
he was right there are scores of persons 
devoted to the art of good living ready to 
Broiled attest. No ; if you are to have the bird 
Canuas-back broiled, use a double-broiler, leave over the 
fire ten minutes, eight will be better, and 
serve with only a little melted butter having 
in it a soup9on of lemon juice. There is 
nothing there, you see, to encroach upon 
the delicate flavor of the duck. About two 



I GO A-MARKETING 215 

minutes before removing from the fire 
sprinkle a little salt over the bird. 

But if a roast of game seems to you Roasted 
better calculated to round out your dinner Canvas-back, 
scheme, then roast them, but don't have g(,„pg 
them too well done ('t is said the blood should 
follow the knife) ; and for a sauce have some 
port wine heated in a bain-marie with a few 
drops of orange juice added thereto. H'm, 
talk about being able to tempt a dying 
anchorite ! Sydney Smith may have thought 
it a great height attained to concoct a salad 
calculated to make that abstemious old recluse 
dip his fingers in the salad bowl, but for me, 
I 'd a thousand times rather prepare a dish fit 
to tickle the palate of a gourmet who is some- 
what aweary of good things ; and I fancy that 
canvas-back so roasted and served is quite 
capable of lending a fillip to the existence of 
those most experienced in the joys to be found 
in eating. 

It's very sad, but it's also very true, that 
there are instances where a redhead duck is 
foisted upon an unknowing and consequently 
unsuspecting purchaser in place of a canvas- 
back. This is easily done, because of the 
strong resemblance between them as to 



2i6 I GO A-MARKETING 

plumage and habits, for the two kinds fly 
and feed in the same flock. But while the 
flavor of the redhead is of a desirable quality, 
it in no way approaches that of the canvas- 
back. 

In the cooking of the redhead duck, the 
rules given for preparing canvas-backs may be 
followed, with the exceptions that in the 
melted butter used for the broiled bird a little 
minced parsley will be an improvement, and 
in the port wine sauce for the roasted duck 
currant jelly may be melted and impart a 
flavor that will be generally liked. 
Roasted A favorite duck with many good diners is 
Mallard Duck tjjg mallard, and when they are in good con- 
Fried Celery dition they are quite worthy the favor shown 
them. It is only a matter of choice whether 
they shall be roasted or broiled ; if the latter 
way is decided upon, then a garnishing of 
fried celery makes a tempting dish more 
tempting still. Only the tender, smallest 
stocks of celery should be used, and then, 
after being dipped in frying batter, they 
should be fried quickly in butter. These 
birds, and, in fact, all others, when being 
broiled or roasted, should not be salted till 
about two minutes before removing from the 



I GO A-MARKETING 217 

fire. If the salt is put on earlier the meat is 
apt to be tough and the quality of the flavor 
somewhat injured. I don't know that cook- 
ery books give this direction explicitly, but I 
have found from experience that it is the case. 

If you are to have your mallards roasted, 
then by all means make a sour-apple marma- 
lade, strain it through a sieve and add to it 
half its quantity of unsweetened whipped 
cream. If you have never tried this sauce 
with roasted duck, then, my word for it, there 
is a gastronomical delight waiting for you, and 
I would n't advise you to keep it waiting long, 
for you will be the loser. 

Don't you recognize in this sauce an old 
friend in a new dress? Why, of course, 
roast duck and apple sauce is a dish our great- 
grandmothers were fond of; but this latter- 
day manner of preparing the sauce, you see, 
idealizes it a bit and renders it so much the 
daintier. 

Another duck of delectable flavor is the 
ruddy duck, or broadbill, as it is known in 
some localities. They live in the fresh ponds 
hereabouts, and as long as the ponds remain 
unfrozen the ducks will be quite satisfied with 
this climate. 



2i8 I GO A-MARKETING 

Teal ducks, too, especially the blue-winged, 
are of excellent flavor, and, in addition to this, 
the meat is said to be highly nutritious and 
easily digested, making them desirable for 
convalescents. There is also a green-winged 
teal, but it is far inferior to the first-mentioned 
variety. 

One cannot very well decide upon the par- 
ticular kind of game and the manner in which 
it shall be served without giving some thought 
to the salad that in reality acts as its supple- 
ment. And the same rule which forbids the 
serving of a rich, heavy sauce with game 
applies to salads. The simpler the salad the 
more keenly will you relish the game. 
Chopped celery, lettuce, chicory, watercress 
or cucumbers, with a simple French dressing, 
are the salads par excellence to be served with 
game. 

By the way, not long ago some one 
wrote to a certain weekly published in New 
York asking if it was " good form " to serve 
the game and the salad on the same plate. 
It does n't seem to me to be a matter in any 
way to be governed by what is called " good 
form." Good taste and a very superficial 
knowledge of epicureanism would enable their 



I GO A-MARKETING 219 

possessor to understand that hot game should 
be hot, not lukewarm, and that the salads 
should be cold, and the only way to accom- 
plish this is to have a plate for each. 



Cut some slices of bread from a not too sardine 
fresh loaf, trim them to an oblong shape, ^'^I'^P^ 
remove all crust and toast a delicate brown. 
Into a pat of butter mix some finely chopped 
parsley, pepper and lemon juice, in suitable 
proportions, and with the mixture coat the 
slices of toast. Remove the skin and bones 
from the desired number of sardines and lay 
them on the toast ; garnish between the sar- 
dines with hard-boiled eggs, chopped very 
finely, the whites and yolks separately. 
Sprinkle over all some minced parsley and 
there you have a canape — a sardine canape — 
one of the most delightful appetizers known 
to good diners of this day and generation. 
Moreover it is a fitting beginning for a 
Christmas dinner of the kind which I am 
about to submit for your approval. 

The wisdom of following the canape with 
the simplest soup possible will be quite appar- 
ent, if I mistake not, some time before the 



220 I GO A-MARKETING 

4 

Chicken dinner is a thing of the past. Why not. 
Consomme therefore, prepare it in this way ? Take a 
chicken, cut it in pieces and put it into a 
saucepan with two quarts of water to sim- 
mer gently until the scum begins to rise, 
skim until every particle is removed, then add 
salt, a carrot, an onion, two slices of turnip 
and three celery stalks. Boil gently for two 
hours, strain and serve, and your family and 
guests will have reason to bless the hour when 
you set before them a chicken consomme. 

Oysters After the soup ? Well, suppose you lay 
Baked with jn a deep dish fit to be placed in the oven 
a bed of medium-sized oysters ; season them 
with salt, pepper, and a few small pieces of 
butter; sift over them some fresh bread- 
crumbs and pour in a little sherry with some 
of the oyster liquor ; repeat the same operation 
until the dish is full, then besprinkle the 
whole with bread-crumbs ; scatter small pats 
of butter here and there, and set the dish in a 
hot oven for fifteen minutes to color a light 
brown, then serve, and serving be modestly 
proud of the fact that you have prepared a 
dish which sometimes appears upon the menu 
at Delmonico's as " Huitres au Gratin a la 
Crane." Order it the next time you are 



I GO A-MARKETING 221 

lunching or dining at that hostelry and com- 
pare your effort with that of the famous chef 
at Delmonico's. For your sake, as well as 
for my own, I trust that you will find that 
the success turned out by your own cuisine 
gains by the comparison. 

Are you still wavering in your opinion as Goose 
to whether your choice shall fall on turkey, **"#«'='""■** 

, , ■' r I ^1 • ,• ^ Potato 

ducks or goose for the Christmas dmner ? 
Let it be goose then, for if properly cooked 
and served they go far toward clinching the 
success of the feast. But " properly cooked 
and served," there 's the rub. And is n't it 
enough to amaze a contemplative person to 
note how wide apart are the conditions which 
different housekeepers define by that phrase ? 
Nevertheless I am going to tell you how it 
seems to me a goose should be prepared to 
answer the description. If the bird is of 
medium size then you will want to boil and 
mash eight or ten large potatoes; to them 
add half a dozen small onions which have 
been peeled and chopped as finely as possible ; 
then season with white pepper and salt to 
taste. Add at least half a pint of cream or 
rich milk, about three ounces of melted butter, 
and three eggs beaten to a froth. Whip the 



222 I GO A-MARKETING 

potato till it is light and smooth and fill the 
inside of the goose with it. When it is sent 
to the table have it garnished with very small 
onions which have been boiled till tender 
without losing their shape, and then fried a 
light brown in butter. Nothing can be better 
for a sauce than the giblets boiled till tender, 
then chopped finely and returned to the 
water in which they were boiled, with a little 
Madeira, and a gill of button mushrooms cut 
in halves ; thicken with a tablespoonful of 
browned flour braided with an equal quantity 
of butter. 
Turnips with Although there may be in market a goodly 
showing of vegetables from almost every part 
of the country, not everything is calculated to 
supplement the flavor of roasted goose so 
well as is a sweet and well-flavored turnip. 
Particularly is this the case if the turnips are 
cut into fanciful shapes, such as dice, crescents, 
etc., with the vegetable cutters, which come 
expressly for this purpose, boiled till tender 
and then served with melted butter and 
chopped parsley poured over them. 

Perhaps there are some housekeepers who 
will think I should suggest an entree to fol- 
low the goose, but at this season of the year 



Butter Sauce 



I GO A-MARKETING 223 

I am trying to live up to the golden rule, and Victoria 
as at this point I should vastly prefer a punch ** 
or a sorbet to anything else, I am going to 
recommend that you be guided by my prefer- ^ 
ence. You may take one quart of lemon 
water ice to which has been added the whites 
of three eggs beaten to a froth, a gill of kirsch 
and half a pint of champagne, and send to 
table in some of the pretty punch cups which 
formed one of your Yule-tide gifts. You 
may also serve cigarettes at the same time, 
and, my word for it, your guests at table 
assembled will have a keener appetite for 
the next course than if you had sandwiched 
in some rich entree. 

With about nine out of every ten subur- 
banites raising pigeons in these days it is 
very easy to understand why the squabs in 
the market are of such good quality and 
are sold at such a reasonable price. And 
under these circumstances don't you think 
they will be excellent for the next course if 
broiled to a turn and accompanied by a 
salad of chicory or watercress ? 

After the squabs the sweets. Few house- 
keepers will think a Christmas dinner com- 
plete without mince pies and plum-pudding. 



224 I GO A-MARKETING 

but I cannot suggest a way in which to 
make them, for truth to tell, I never pre- 
pared either, and I 'm above offering you 
any recipes which I 've not tried, no matter 
how true they may be. Consult your cookery 
books if you 've not a favorite method of 
your own for preparing these aids to indiges- 
tion, and select those that seem least harmful. 

Of course, there will be upon the table till ' 
dessert is served celery, olives stuffed or plain, 
salted almonds or pecans, etc. I know that 
you know this, but had I neglected to men- 
tion it more than likely you would have 
accused me of being ignorant of the necessity 
of having these side dishes at a dinner. 

After the sweets the biscuit, cheese and 
coffee, and if the cheese is to be of a par- 
ticularly rich flavor, such as Camembert, 
Roquefort, or Brie, then by all means serve 
with it some of the little Bar-le-Duc currants, 
both red and white. 

Are you to have wine? Then make it 
sherry with the soup, champagne with the 
goose, and the v«ry best burgundy to be had 
to accompany the squabs. 

I fancy there is nothing more that I can sug- 
gest that will add to your happiness or that of 



I GO A-MARKETING 225 

your guests, who will probably feel very 
grateful to you for spreading for them a 
feast " delectable to eat and to behold." For 
yourself, you will probably feel very grateful 
that Christmas comes but once a year. 



You shall not be put off with any side issue 
in these very last pages, but shall have dished 
up for your critical examination a list that 
I promise you shall be a hodge-podge, a 
melange, or, if it please your sense of the 
fitness of things better, a macedoine of the 
best edibles the market affords. 

Doubtless when you have been in Western 
cities you have dined many a time and oft at 
those sky-high restaurants overlooking one of 
the Great Lakes, and have had the waiter, with 
an air of honesty made perfect by practice, 
point out to you the very spot where the white- 
fish you were at the minute admiring had been 
pulled in scarcely three hours before. If so, 
you know the delicious and unapproachable 
flavor of the fish in their purest and best 
estate. And yet they reach eastern markets 
in a remarkable state of freshness and are 
inexpensive enough to warrant any one in 

IS 



226 I GO A-MARKETING 

trying them for a change from the kinds that 
are more common here. 

Broiled over a hot fire and served with a 
simple sauce made of melted butter, lemon 
juice and a sprinkling of cayenne they are 
good enough to serve at any meal for any- 
body. But you can make a more elaborate 
dish from them by going to work in this way : 
Baked Scale a rather good-sized fish, split it, remove 
Whitefish jj^g backbone, and then season the fish well 
with salt and pepper, dip it in beaten egg, 
then in bread-crumbs, again in beaten egg, 
and lay in a well buttered baking pan. 
Bake in a hot oven till it is colored a good 
brown. Take it up on a hot dish, set the 
baking pan having in it the hot butter on the 
top of the range and cook in it for a minute 
or two half a pint of drained oysters ; arrange 
the oysters round the fish and pour a little 
melted butter over all, with a garnishing of 
fried parsley. If you are having this dish for 
luncheon, have with it some potato croquettes, 
but if it is intended for dinner and a roast or 
rich entree is to follow, then have a dainty 
salad of crisp radishes with a handful of capers 
shaken over them. 

And now is the time if ever that fresh cods' 



I GO A-MARKETING 227 

tongues should find favor. They are in- Boiled Coda' 
expensive and in perfect condition, and by ""3"^^ 
more than one gourmet are considered an 
unrivalled delicacy. If this statement per- 
suades you to give them a trial, just a word 
as to preparing them : Have three pints of 
water boiling in a saucepan, add to it two 
carrots and half a dozen onions very finely 
chopped, a few sprigs of parsley and two gills 
of vinegar. When the vegetables are nearly 
tender enough put into the saucepan with 
them two pounds of cods' tongues. Let them 
boil just once, then move back where they 
will simmer but not boil for twenty minutes 
or so. Take up the tongues, drain, dress 
them on a hot dish and keep hot while you 
prepare the sauce. For this drain the vege- 
tables and toss them about in a frying-pan 
in plenty of butter till they show signs of 
browning a bit, then add to them some chop- 
ped cucumber pickles and a few capers and 
pour round the tongues. Season the sauce, 
of course, with salt and pepper, and if you 
are gifted with rare discretion in the matter of 
spices use ever so little nutmeg in it; just one 
or two turns of the grater will give you all 
you should have. I intend to be very par- 



228 I GO A-MARKETING 

ticular in my choice of readers and hearers 
when I suggest the use of nutmeg in savory 
sauces, because there are so many house- 
keepers as well as cooks who positively are 
not to be trusted with a nutmeg in one hand 
and a grater in the other ; they will persist in 
going on the principle that if a little is good 
more must be better, and then grate away for 
dear life. 

Of course you know that smelts are in their 
prime, but is your sense of smell keen enough 
to detect in that fish the likeness of its fra- 
grance to that of the violet or of the cucum- 
ber ? Well, the similarity is there if the fish 
be as fresh as it should, and if you don't dis- 
cover it you may add another to your list of 
misfortunes, for they do say, those who know 
whereof they speak, that inability to perceive 
this subtle scent indicates a correspondingly 
unappreciative palate. And so much for my 
fish story. 

Along with the many things for which we 
have cause for rejoicing about this time of 
year there should certainly be reckoned the 
fact that game of almost all kinds is more 
plentiful and less expensive than at other 
seasons. And you know that under such 



I GO A-MARKETING 229 

favorable circumstances as these I am wont 
to urge you to make experiments in prepar- 
ing the viand in question. Suppose, for 
instance, that the next time you are to have 
partridges you pretend to forget that these 
birds are ever roasted or broiled, and so set 
to work to serve them in this way : Have Fried 
four partridges, cut off the breasts, divide them Partridge 
in two and lay them aside ; boil the legs and 
livers of the birds in salted water till they 
are quite tender — so tender, in fact, that they 
can be pressed through a rather coarse sieve. 
Put this pulp into a saucepan with a gill of 
the water used for boiling it, half a gill of 
sherry wine, a bit of cayenne, an ounce of 
butter, and salt if it is needed. Let this get 
hot, very hot, without boiling, and keep it 
hot while you cook the breasts. These fry 
in butter and range in a circle on a dish with 
alternate slices of bread also fried in butter, 
and in the centre pour the sauce made from 
the legs and livers. To be sure, you can 
make the sauce somewhat richer by adding to 
it chopped mushrooms or chopped truffles or 
both. 

Forget, also, for a time, your favorite ways 
of cooking quails in order that you may pro- 



230 I GO A-MARKETING 

Roasted nounce judgment on this manner of preparing 
Quai s ^.j^gjjj . Have half a dozen of them drawn 
and singed for roasting. Chop up the livers, 
double the quantity of chicken liver and as 
much minced fat salt pork as liver; add 
chopped parsley, salt, cayenne, three or four 
drops of onion juice, a tablespoonful of very 
fine bread-crumbs, and one beaten egg. Mix 
these ingredients all well together and fill 
the quails with it; roast them in a rather 
moderate oven for twenty minutes, basting 
occasionally with melted butter. Dress the 
quails on a hot dish, squeeze a few drops of 
lemon juice into the pan in which they were 
roasted, adding a little melted butter, and 
pour this sauce over the birds. 
Roasted Or it may be that for yourself you prefer a 
„ „ .''""f roasted black duck, but cannot gratify your 

Stuffed with ' r i 

Celery preference because some members of the 
family will insist upon calling such a bird 
" strong," when you know and speak of the 
flavor only as being "gamey." Now, there's 
a way out of the difficulty for all of you. Just 
stuff the birds as full as you can with celery 
tops, tie thin slices of fat salt pork over 
their breaste and roast them till they are 



I GO A-MARKETING 231 

quite tender and brown. You will find the 
strong flavor entirely gone, while the gamey 
taste will be so aided and abetted by the 
celery that your palate will receive a new 
and altogether delightful sensation. Surround 
the ducks when serving with a border pre- 
pared as follows : Brown some slices of bread 
in the oven, and when of a good color and 
very dry, roll and pass through a fine sieve, 
mix these crumbs with a little butter, season 
them with salt and pepper and heat well in 
the oven before using. Serve with the ducks 
also a hot apple sauce ; make it as you always 
do and add to one pint of sauce an ounce of 
butter. 

With either of the ways suggested for cook- 
ing game you will want to serve a salad, 
probably, and you can't do better than, 
decide to have one of escarole or of romaine 
with a simple French dressing. But there 
is chicory, of course, and there is lettuce, 
and both of them in fine condition, if you 
don't feel inclined to take my advice. And 
there are cucumbers, from hothouses, and 
there are hothouse tomatoes, that are 
expensive or the reverse, according to one's 



232 I GO A-MARKETING 

position on the financial question. In fact, 
you can get almost any kind of vegetable 
or fruit in the large markets to-day, and at 
all times ; and if the particular thing that 
you desire happens to be absent, just wait 
a few minutes and your order will be filled 
by lightning express from some part of the 
world. 



Index 



SOUPS PAGE 

Asparagus .... 92 
Bisque of clams ... 89 
Chicken consomme . . zzo 
Consomme with aspara- 
gus 197 

Puree of peas and spin- 
ach 79 

Savory tomato ... 87 

Soup, velvet . . . . 177 

FISH 

Bluefish, Newport style 169 

Cods' tongues, boiled . 227 

Fresh cod, baked . . 9 

Fresh cod, broiled . . g 
Fresh cod, Delmonico 

style 8 

Fresh cod, flaked, in to- 
mato sauce ... 37 
Halibut, baked, with 

Parmesan . . . . 178 

Smelts, baked . . . 167 
Smelts, broiled, Bear- 

naise sauce . . . 167 
Smelts, fried, with par- 
sley 168 

Trout, lake, boiled . . 50 

Whitefish, baked . . 2z6 

SMOKED OR SALT 
FISH 

Codfish with brown but- 
ter 44 

Codfish with cream . . 43 

Cods' tongues, fried . 45 



PAGE 

Fillets of sole, casserole 
of 51 

Finnan haddies with 
cream 48 

Herring fried ... 47 

Mackerel, boiled, horse- 
radish sauce ... 46 

Salmon, broiled ... 46 

SHELL FISH 

Clam cocktails ... 65 
Clams, West Island 

style 94 

Clams and lobsters in 

shells 95 

Lobster a la Newberg 38, 130 
Lobster croquettes . 
Lobster, devilled 
Lobster patties . 
Lobster tartlets . 
Lobster toast 
Lobster tails stuifed 
Oysters, baked . 
Oysters, baked with 

cheese 220 



131 
129 

134 
130 
129 
131 
143 



Oyster cocktails . . . 142 

Oysters, creamed . . 37 

Oysters, celery roast . 146 
Oysters, devilled and 

fried 145 

Oysters, pickled . . . 147 

Oyster pie .... 146 

Oyster salad .... 17 

Oyster sandwiches . . 190 

Oyster soufHee ... 52 



234 



INDEX 



SHELL FISH — Cont. 

PAGE 

Oysters, stewed, with 

cream 144 

Oysters, stuffed and 
fried 145 

Scallops in shells . . zio 

BEEF, MUTTON, LAMB, 
PORK, ETC. 

Beef tongue . . . . 112 

Cutlets, jellied . . . 140 

Ham, roasted ... 5 

Ham toast . . . . 102 

Kidneys, en brochette . 25 
Kidneys, fried, with 

mushrooms ... 26 
Kidneys, minced . . 27 
Lamb croquettes . . 23 
Lamb cutlets with mush- 
rooms 135 

Lamb, roasted, with 

caper sauce ... 20 
Lamb, roasted, with 

macaroni .... 21 
Lamb, roasted, with 

onion puree ... zi 

Lamb steak .... 66 
Lamb steak, with Bear- 

naise sauce ... 67 

Lamb slices, broiled . 22 
Lamb slices, fried with 

chutney .... 21 
Lamb slices, stewed with 

onions and mushrooms 22 
Lamb slices in chafing 

dish 23 

Liver, calf's, fried . . 28 

Pigs' feet, broiled . . 6 
Pork chops, broiled, 

sauce piquante . . 3 



Pork, roasted, onion 

sauce 4 

Sausages 2 

Veal cutlets^ broiled . 83 

POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 

Chicken cream (cold) 42, 138 

Chicken cream with to- 
mato (cold) . . . 139 

Chicken, fried, Italian 
style 159 

Chicken, fried with to- 
matoes 160 

Chicken, fried, cream 
sauce 100 

Chicken hash, baked . 84 

Chicken livers, olive 
sauce 39 

Chicken liver patties . 211 

Doe birds, roasted . . in 

Duck, broiled canvas- 
back Z14 

Duck, canvas-back, 
roasted, port wine 
sauce 215 

Duck, fillets, with or- 
ange sauce . . . 207 

Ducks, roasted, with 

orange sauce . . . 160 

Ducks, roasted, with 

olives 179 

Duck, stuffed with cel- 
ery tops, roasted . . 230 

Duck, mallard, roasted, 

with fried celery . . 216 

Game tarts . . . . 1 1 1 

Goose pie .... 205 

Goose, roasted, potato 
stuffing .... 221 

Goose, stewed . . . 206 



INDEX 



235 



POULTRY, ETC. — Cont. 

PAGE 

Grouse pie . . . . 119 

Grouse, roasted . . . 176 

Partridge breasts, fried . aig 

Partridge salmi (cold) . zio 

Plover, roasted . . . 120 

Quail, roasted . 176, 230 

Teal (ducks) roasted . 211 

Turkey in aspic . . . in 

Turkey legs, broiled • 203 
Turkey legs, devilled 

and broiled . . . 203 

Turkey, minced . . 205 
Turkey, minced with 

mushrooms . . . 204 

VEGETABLES 

Asparagus, baked . . 77 
Asparagus tops with 

cheese 90 

Asparagus tops with 

cream 76 

Asparagus with savory 

sauce 77 

Cucumbers, fried . . 96 
Cucumbers, stuffed and 

baked 95 

Mushroom camielons . 198 

Oyster plant with cream 118 

Peas with mint ... 92 

Potato soufflee ... 67 

Potato omelet . . . 204 

Squash, baked . . . 206 

String beans with butter 199 
Tomatoes, broiled 

devilled . . . . 161 
Tomatoes, broiled, on 

toast i6z 

Tomatoes with celery 

and mayonnaise . . 212 



Turnips with butter 

sauce 222 

SALADS 

Apple and celery . . 162 
Asparagus . . . 77, 88 

Brussels sprouts ... 16 

Cheese 193 

Duck 207 

Fish 208 

Herring 84 

Lamb 24 

Lettuce with chives . . 91 

Nut 18 

Oyster 17 

Red cabbage ... 14 

Sardine 16 

Spanish onion ... 15 



SWEET SALADS 


Fruit — ^general . . 


107 


Fruit — summer . . 


201 


Fruit — ^winter . . 


18 


Pear 


106 


Pear salad. No. 2 . . 


164 


Pineapple .... 


106 


Strawberry . . . 


105 


EGG DISHES 




Baked .... 


57 


Curdled in cream 


SS 


Eggs, curried 


41 


Eggs, snow . . . 


62 


Epicurean style . . 


• $6 


In tomato puree . 


. ss 


Omelet Celestine 


61 


Omelet jelly . . . 


60 


Omelet, Spanish . 


59 


Omelet strawberries . 


60 


Omelet with caviare 


• 58 



236 




INDEX 






EGG DISHES -Cont. 




PAGE 






PAGE 


Peach sherbet . . 


124 




Omelet with chicken 


Pineapple sherbet 


124 




liver .... 


59 


Rhubarb sherbet . . 


81 




Omelette soufflee 


62 


Victoria sorbet . . 


223 




Scrambled with truffles 58 


Wine ice cream . . 


137 




Toast with Parmesan 


57 












FRUITS, COOKED 




DESSERTS 




Apple croquettes 


3 




Almond pudding 


S3 


Apple salad . . . 


156 




Charlotte, apricot 


81 


Apple sauce with orange 


163 




Charlotte, macaroon 


180 


Apple sauce with whip 






Cream, banana . 


108 


ped cream . . . 


163 




Cream, coffee glacee 


53 


Apples, fried . . 


155 




Cream, gooseberry . 


102 


Apples in vanilla syruf 


> 15s 




Cream, peach . . 


108 


Grape jam . . . 


149 




Cream, raspberry . 


108 


Peach cream . . . 


165 




Macaroon custard . 


212 


Pears in vanilla syrup 


157 




Milk sherbet . . . 


123 


Pears stewed in claret 


158 




Musk melon jelly . 


114 


Pears, stuffed . . 


164 




Omelet Celestine 


61 


Pears, stuffed stewed 


158 




Omelet with jelly . 


60 


Peaches, brandied . 


■ 154 




Omelet with strawberrie 


s 60 


Peaches, stuffed . 


165 




Omelette soufflee . 


62 


Plums, brandied 


• 153 




Raspberries, crystallizec 


I 107 


Plum jam . . . 


152 




Strawberries, frozen . 


91 


Quince jelly . . . 


151 




Strawberry fritters . 


103 


Quince marmalade . 


150 




Strawberry jelly . . 


105 








Strawberry pudding . 


104 


DRINKS 






Strawberry sherbet . 


124 








Watermelon, iced . 


99 


Claret, hot, egg-nog 


182 






Claret, hot, spiced . 


182 








Claret tipple . . . 

Cider cup 

Cider egg-nog . 


182 




ICE CREAMS AND 


ICES 


186 




Champagne sherbet . 


125 


185 




Champagne sherbet witl 


I 


Cider punch . . . 


184 




strawberries . . 


126 


Ginger lemonade 


. 186 




Claret sherbet . . 


126 


Moss rose . . . 


"5 




Coffee ice cream 


123 


Orange punch . 


. 184 




Currant sherbet . 


124 


Quince liqueur . . 


185 




Grape fruit sherbet . 


20I 


Rhine wine cup . . 


186 




Kirsch sherbet . 


127 


Rhine wine seltzer . 


186 



INDEX 



237 



DRINKS— Cont. p^^^ 

Soda cocktail . . . 187 

Sherry egg-nog, hot . 183 

Various cups . . . . 186 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Butters, savory . . 191 

Cider sauce ... 5 

Croquettes, macaroni . ay 
Croquettes, sweet corn 

(canned) .... 11 

Golden buck ... 41 

Grape fruit with rum . zoi 

Hash, sublimated . 12 

Jelly, savory . . . 193 
Johnny cake, Rhode 

Island style ... 13 
Macaroni, timbales . . 51 
Macaroni with cheese . 199 
Mayonnaise, with horse- 
radish 79 

Olives with caviare . . 78 

Partridge, sauce for 175 
Rice muffins . .12 

Sandwiches, cav'are . . 190 

Sandwiches, crust . 191 

Sandwiches, fish . . . 191 



Sandwiches, French 
Sandwiches, game 
Sandwiches, sweet 
Sardine canape . 
Sauce duchesse . 
Sauce for calf's liver 
Sauce, onion . 
Toast, anchovy - 
Toast for game . 
Toast, sardine . 
Tunny fish . 
Welsh rabbit 



PAGE 

113 

191 

192 

Z19 

80 

29 

80 

69 

174 
69 
70 
40 



INVALID COOKERY 



Barley, puree of 
Beef tea . 
Chicken broth with 

meal 
Chicken custard . 
Chicken, sabayon of 
Cream soup . 
Invalid's chop 
Rice, steamed 
Tapioca jelly 
Violet jelly . 



oat- 



s' 
3a 

31 
33 
32 
32 
35 
3S 
33 
34- 



fPbrks on Cookery 



MRS. LINCOLN'S COOK BOOK 

New Edition. The Boston Cook Book. What to Do and 
What Not to Do in Cooking. By MARY J. LINCOLN. 
With 51 illustrations. Revised edition, including 250 
additional recipes. i2mo. $2.00. 

It is the tiimmest, best arranged, best illustrated, most intelligible manual 
of cookery as a high art, and as an economic art, that has appeared. — 
Indefendent. 

It tells in the most simple and practical and exact way those little things 
which women ought to know, but have generally to learn by sad experience. 
It ought to be in every household, — Philadelphia Press, 

CARVING AND SERVING 

Square i2mo. Illuminated board covers. 60 cents. 

What an advantage it must be to be able to place with the left 
hand a fork in the breast of a turkey, and, without once removing it, 
with the right hand to carve and dissect, or disjoint, the entire fowl, 
ready to be helped to admiring guests ! This is done by skilful 
carvers. The book contains directions for serving, with a list of 
utensils for carving and serving. 

BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK 

Lessons in Cooking for the use in Classes in Public 
and Industrial Schools. i2mo. ^i.oo. 

TWENTY LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Compiled from the Boston School Kitchen Text-Book. 
With Index. Cards in envelope. 40 cents per set net. 

THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK 

One hundred pages of Valuable Receipts for Cooking, 
Compact and Practical. i6mo. Paper covers. 15 cents. 



WORKS ON COOKERY 

MISS FARMER'S COOK BOOK. New Edition 
The Boston Cooking-School Cook Book. By FANNIE 
MERRITT FARMER, Principal of the Boston Cooking- 
School, author of "Chafing Dish Possibilities." New 
edition, with one hundred additional receipts. Illus- 
trated. I2mO. $2.00. 

Miss Farmer's Cook Book has constantly been growing in favor 
and is now in the front rank. The Congregationalist pronounces it 
thoroughly practical and serviceable, and numerous authorities award 
it the highest praise. It should be in every household. 

If one were asked off-hand to name the best cook book on the market it 
would not be strange if "The Boston Cooking-School Cook Book" were 
named. — The New York Woman's World. 

The recipes are compounded with a knowledge of the science of cooking, 
and with due regard to the conservative public, which must be wooed into a 
knowledge and appreciation of foods, not merely as palate-ticklers, but as 
the builders and sustainers of the human body. — The Outlook, 

CHAFING DISH POSSIBILITIES 

By FANNIE MERRITT FARMER. i6nio. $i.oo. 

Contents : I. Glimpses of Chafing Dishes in the Past ; 
II. Chafing Dish Suggestions ; III. Toast, Griddle Cakes, 
AND Fkitters; IV. Eggs; V. Oysters; VI. Lobsters: 
VII. Some Other Shell Fish ; VIII. Fish R:6cHAUFFis ; 
IX. Beef ; X. Lamb and Mutton ; XI. Chicken ; XII. 
Sweetbreads ; XIII. With the Epicure ; XIV. Vegeta- 
bles; XV. Cheese Dishes; XVI. Relishes and Sweets. 
XVII. Candies. 

It is a book that no one who entertains with the chafing dish will be with- 
out. —S. Paul Globe. 

Her recipes have the merit of simplicity and newness. — Los Angeles Even- 
ing Express, 

There have been many volumes of chafing dish recipes, but none which is 
more appropriately adapted for the breakfast or lunch table, or for small con- 
genial parties. Kvery feature is distinctly new. — Boston Herald, 

Nearly 250 recdpes, all simply and clearly written. — San Francisco 
Chronicle, 



WORKS ON COOKERY 

SALADS, SANDWICHES, AND CHAFING- 
DISH DAINTIES 

By JANET McKENZIE HILL, editor of "The Boston 
Cooking-School Magazine." With 33 half-tone illustra- 
tions from photographs of original dishes. 12 mo. 
Cloth, extra. $1.50. 

To the housewife who likes new and dainty ways of serving food, this book 
will simply be a godsend. There must be more than a hundred different 
varieties of salad among the recipes — salads made of fruit, of fish, of meat, 
of vegetables, and made to look pretty in scores of different ways. There are 
also instructions for making different kinds of lemonades and other soft drinks, 
and for making breads and rolls in the truly artistie cooking-school style. 

— Washington Times. 

Sensible and practical. — Chicago Evening Post. 

Many of the dishes are new to the average housewife. — Philadelphia 
Times, 

A most attractive volume. The subjects are presented in a clear and pleas- 
ing form, and are beautifully illustrated from photographs of original dishes. 

— Advance. 

Her recipes are founded upon scientific principles, her directions are clear 
and uncompUcated, and are reliable. — Brooklyn Times. 

The very attractive form of the book fits it to go along with the pretty 
adjuncts of the chafing dish supper. — Tlie Dial. 

It is a thoroughly practical work and will be cordially welcomed in every 
household where new and dainty ways of preparing food are appreciated. — 
Boston Globe. 

Wholesome dishes that will please capricious appetites. Some of these 
recipes will also appeal to the taste of invalids. — Vogue. 

I GO A MARKETING 

By HENRIETTA SOWLE ("Henriette"). i2mo. 

Cloth. ;?i.5o. 

Miss Sowle has for some time been a valued writer for the Boston 
Transcript, and her articles published under the title of "I Go a 
Marketing" have been found helpful and suggestive to those who 
are interested in dainty and palatable dishes. Her book is not a 
cook-book in the ordinary sense but aims to give novel and delicious 
ways of serving the many good things which may be found each 
month in the year by those who " go a marketing." 



WORKS ON COOKERY 

HELEN CAMPBELL'S WRITINGS 

THE EASIEST WAY IN HOUSEKEEPING AND 
COOKING 

Adapted to Domestic Use or Study in Classes. New 
revised edition. i6mo. ^i.oo. 

IN FOREIGN KITCHENS 

With choice recipes from England, France, Germany, 

Italy, and the North. i6mo. 50 cents. 
THE WHAT-TO-DO CLUB 

A Story for Girls. i6mo. ^1.50. 
MRS. HERNDON'S INCOME 

A Novel. i6mo. $1.50. 
MISS MELINDA'S OPPORTUNITY 

A Stoiy for Girls. i6mo. $1.00 ; paper, 50 cents. 
PRISONERS OF POVERTY 

Women Wage-Workers, their Trades, and their Lives. 

i2mo. $1.00. 

PRISONERS OF POVERTY ABROAD 
i6mo. ^i.ooj paper, 50 cents. 

She went among the workers and the employers, and her statements are 
based upon person^ knowledge of the facts. ... — Boston Post. 

ROGER BERKELEY'S PROBATION 
A Story. i2mo. ?i.oo; paper, 50 cents. 

SOME PASSAGES IN THE PRACTICE OF DR. 
MARTHA SCARBOROUGH 

i6mo. $1.00. 

This work directs attention to the physical and spiritual value of 
foods. 

WOMEN WAGE-EARNERS 

Their Past, their Present, and their Future. i6mo. 

$1.00. 

LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY 

Publishers • 254 Washington Street, Boston 



Jj*. 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 





Ciy^r^ 



oKoi, 




Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Culinary Collection 



Gift of Karen Slater 



r^ 



J 






,1 



I , 

\ 



i I 

i 
1 



/ Go A" Marketing 



/ Go ^-Marketing 



By 
HENRIETTA SOWLE 

("HENRIETTE") 



BOSTON  LITTLE, BROWN 
AND COMPANY . MDCCCC 



I ill '" 



T 



Copyright^ igoo^ hy Little, 
Brown, and Company. 



> 



mnrxstmr nsaa • john wiuon 

AND SON • CAMBIIDOB, O. 1. A. 



' .X'MV ^ ^^*>' 






TO 
MR. EDWARD H. CLEMENT 



Autbor*s Note 



BEFORE dipping into this book very 
izxj reader (pray note that I cozen you 
with neither "gentle" nor "dear"), 
allow me to suggest that you familiarize your- 
self with the spirit of Emerson, who has al- 
lowed that the truly consistent person changes 
his mind whenever occasion offers. Then you 
will be in a frame of mind to acknowledge 
that I have but exercised my privil^e if you 
chance upon passages that seem to put me in 
a self-contradictory position. I hold to one 
opinion till new or increased light shows me 
I would do well to change, no longer. 

Is it necessary, I wonder, to say that this 
compilation of persiflage and cookery is not 
intended to be the whole culinary library of 
any housekeeper ? In case it may be believed 
that I have any such inflated idea of its value. 



viii AUTHOR'S NOTE 



let me say at once that any housekeeper who 
secures this book, by buying or by borrowing, 
will want just as many of the old-line '^ cook- 
books '' at hand as if she had never heard of 
it. Its mission is a supplementary one* 
It is for those dark and dreary days when the 
housekeeper "wants something good," but can- 
not say what It suggests. Therein is all of 
beauty and use, for "beauty is truth, truth 
beauty, that is aU ye know and all ye need 
to know." 

Furthermore, it is for the housekeeper who 
knows by experience, or intuition, how to 
lay a fire, and how to broil a steak. With 
kindergarten methods it does not deal — it 
rather takes it for granted that it will fall into 
the hands of those who have been graduated 
from kindergarten cookery. Ndther does it 
attempt to set forth the duties of butlers or of 
housemdds. It goes on the principle rather 
that the housekeeper who supports these fac- 
totums knows what their duties should be. 



AUTHOR'S NOTE ix 

And is there any necessity for those who can- 
not attain to such appointments burdening 
their minds with knowledge never to be used ? 
Think on all these things omitted when you 
are getting inspiration from this slender 
source, and be thankful that I have shown 
so much consideration for you. 

*' Read my little fable : 
He that runs may read. 
Most can raise the flowers now^ 
For all have got the seed/' 



I 

i 



/ Go ^'Marketing 



JANUARY 

«< Still Biauty must be stealing hearts^ 
And huL'very stealing pnrset ; 
Still cooks must live by making tarts 
And tvits ty making verses J*"* 



SOME fine day, perchance, I shall to mar- 
ket go and find there what all house- 
keepers are "a-sighin* and a-cryin' for" 
— namely a new edible ; and be it fish, flesh, 
or fowl, I shall, with all haste, make you ac- 
quainted with its nature, and with the name 
of the market-man who introduces the boon ; 
and methinks that nothing short of canoniza- 
tion should reward the man, or woman, who 
finds '^ something new under the sun." 

But till that blessed day of discovery really 
arrives I must be content with telling you of 
ways that may be new and tricks that are 
worth trying for the serving of viands which 
have constituted human nature's daily food 
since the world began. Unless, however, I 
can bring to your minds by my suggestions a 
state of contentment which will enable you to 
await that hour of revealment with patience 



I GO A-MARKETING 



almost amounting to indifference, my duty is 
but half done. 
8au$ageB $0 here goes for a beginning. Don't you 

ever feel quite dissatisfied with the ordinary, 
yes and the extraordinary, sausages of com- 
merce ? Of course you do. No need to ask. 
They are flat, there's no gainsaying it But 
it's the easiest thing in the world to have 
home-made sausages seasoned to a point that 
will make them things of gastronomical joy. 
There must be equal quantities of lean and 
ht fresh pork finely minced ; then to a pound 
of this meat add one-quarter of an ounce of 
salt, more or less, one-eighth of an ounce of 
good business-like pepper, more or less, and 
powdered sage ad lib. The use of season- 
ing, you see, is not bound by any hard and 
fast rules; in cases of this kind a due regard 
must be shown the whims and fancies of the 
palates to be pleased. Once you have added 
the proper amount of seasoning, add enough 
well beaten egg to allow of the mixture being 
moulded to any desired shape, and fried to 
a nice brown. And there you have a dish 
fit to put before a king. If the simplicity 
and homeliness of it somewhat upsets your 
equilibrium, why call it saucisses grillees; 



I GO A-MARKETING 



they '11 taste just as well. They can be served 
either upon rounds of toasted bread or upon 
a foundation of cold boiled potatoes which 
have been diced and heated in cream. 

If you are having them for luncheon then 
serve them on toast, but with the addition of • 
a tomato puree. No need to tell how to make \ 

that ; it 's an old story. 

Another old story, altogether too old, is the Broiled Pork 
wzy most housekeepers have of fiying pork p/^^^^ 
chops. They should never be fried. The Sauoe 
only respectable way is to broil them decently 
and in order over a hot bed of coals. In that 
way what little juice they contain will be re- 
tained. But even then they will be so dry 
that you must supplement them with some- 
thing, — say a sauce made of half a pint of 
good clear stock, highly seasoned, and having 
in it a tablespoonful of chopped pickled pep- 
pers and some sliced gherkins, with the juice 
of a lemon added. 

Or, you can serve with them apple cro- ^ppf^ 
quettes, made by stewing the apples in a little '^^"^ ^* 
butter, with a tiny bit of sugar ; when quite 
cold, with the aid of a few bread-crumbs, shape 
the apple into croquettes, roll them in crumbs 
and beaten egg and fry. Arrange the cro- 



I GO A-MARKETING 



quettes, which must be not more than an inch 
in diameter^ with the chops upon a platter 
in any fanciful way that suggests itself to you^ 
and the condition of the platter at the end of 
the meal will tell you whether or not the ex- 
periment was worth the trying. 
Roasted Pork These croquettes will win fevor for them- 
ufith Onion selves if you will try serving them some time 
with a loin of fresh pork, roasted. You will 
want to serve with them only the simplest kind 
of clear gravy. But you may prefer to serve 
the roasted loin of pork on steamed rice gar- 
nished with button onions, which have been 
boiled till fairly tender and then fried in butter 
to a light brown. If this is your preference, 
make a sauce by frying in two gills of oil, 
half a pound of minced onion, a pinch of pars- 
ley leaves, a crushed clove of garlic and a bay 
leaf, with salt and pepper ; dilute with a pint 
of good stock, preferably white ; strain and 
finish by adding the juice of a lemon and an 
ounce of fresh butter. By the way, when 
fresh pork is to be roasted, it is an excellent 
plan to rub salt well into it about twenty-four 
hours before cooking. If you slice and serve 
it cold you will readily see the wisdom of giv- 



I GO A-MARKETING 



ing the salt a chance to work its way through 
and season the whole loin. 

When a ham is to be roasted, and small ^^^^^ 

Ham 

hams do make excellent roasts, a ham of about 
five pounds' weight should be skinned and 
boiled in enough water to cover it; in this 
water you will want to put, just for variety's 
sake, a carrot, an onion, three bay-leaves, three 
cloves, one clove of garlic, and six pepper- 
corns. Boil very gently for about one hour ; 
then remove from the fire, drain it well, and 
coat it with a paste of oil and flour. Be sure 
that it is well covered with the paste to pre- 
vent the escape of the juice, put into the oven 
and roast for about two hours. 

Serve it with a sauce made of a sufiident Cider Sauce 
quantity of the stock, to which you have 
added half its amount of cider, and there you 
behold what is commonly known as cham- 
pagne sauce. But, bless you, it 's very doubt- 
ful if champagne is often used, as after it is 
heated it would be a sensitive palate indeed 
that could tell whether champagne or cider 
were employed. 

Just a hint right here of what may be done 
with bits of cold ham, for we may never be 
on this subject again. Have some thin slices 



I GO A-MARKETING 



of toasted white bread, spread well with butter 
and a trifle of mustard^ then equal parts of 
grated cheese and minced ham^ and some cay- 
enne pepper. Send to the oven for a few 
minutes, or until the cheese is dissolved, and 
serve immediately. Say what you will, it is a 
delectable dish, this ham toast, and whether 
you allow for it in a prearranged luncheon or 
whether it is concocted on the impulse of the 
moment, when the necessity suddenly arises 
for a dish of the kind, trust me, whoever par- 
takes of it will vow that it " relishes of wit 
and invention.** 
Broiied Perhaps this batch of suggestions would be 
Pigs' Feet incomplete with no reference in it to the cook- 
ing of pigs* feet, and yet there 's very little 
variety in the methods of preparing them. 
The simplest is the best, it seems to me, and 
that is dipping them in melted butter, then in 
bread-crumbs, and broiling over a moderate 
fire. A piquant sauce is by long odds the 
sauce par excellence to be served with them. 
Some chefs de cuisine prepare them elabo^ 
rately with truffles, to my mind, however, 
there's an incongruity in a combination of 
pork and truffles. But of course it 's only a 
matter of taste, and it is more than possible 



I GO A-MARKETING 



that there will be some who read this and de- 
plore my poor taste in devoting so much space 
to ways and means of cooking pork. 

Well, to such I offer the suggestion that 
they call it a chapter on porcine potentials^ 
and pass on. 



By all means let us be economical — truly 
economical. But let us never make the griev- 
ous but common mistake of thinking that the 
buying of cheap, downright cheap food is econ- 
omy. To commit such an error in judgment 
is to lay the cornerstone of more than one 
kind of unhappiness. But you know that, too. 
And with so many inexpensive viands as there 
are to be had, susceptible as they are of so 
many ways of serving, one can, with the exer- 
cise of a little judgment in such matters, have 
the appearance of "living high" when in 
reality one is laying up money out of the 
weekly table allowance, if one has such an in- 
stitution in one's family. For myself, I have 
a great respect for a housekeeper who keeps 
within her allowance week in and week out, 
year after year. But for the one who cuts 
loose occasionally from all allowance limits 



8 I GO A-MARKETING 

when there is a ^' good thing up " I have the 
sincerest admiration and sympathy. It is 
with such a one that I always feel tempted to 
outstay my welcome if I get the shadow of a 
chance to be so ill bred. Such an ignoring 
of trammels of the financial sort is an indica- 
tion of truancy in other matters now and 
then that rather appeals to me^ to be very 
honest about it. But I don't recommend it 
to you or to any one. Perhaps it hasn't a 
place here, but since it is written it shall 
stand, labelled En parenthhe. 

And we will talk of codfish — fresh codfish. 

This is a species of the gadus family that is 

eligible for duty in a family of any class — 

high, low, or middle. It may follow the soup 

at an unlimited course dinner and not be out 

of its element or it may form the piice de 

^risistancej or in fact the only piece of any 

kind at a dinner of another sort and still be 

quite at home. 

Preah Now let us get to business. Suppose that 

Deimonioo ^^^^ day you have a piping hot oven that is 

Style as idle as you would like to be and that you 

have also a fresh codfish in the house split 

with the backbone removed for broiling. 

Let me suggest that you dry it well, put it in 



I GO A-MARKETING 



a buttered baking pan, skin side down, coat it 
with melted butter, sprinkle it with salt, pep- 
per, lemon juice, chopped parsley and chopped 
onion. Then bestrew it with bread crumbs 
moistened in melted butter and set into the 
oven to brown. Get it out as gracefully as 
possible when it is done, flip a little melted 
butter and lemon juice over it and serve. 
Or, if you can't break away from tradition 
and have sworn to have a broiled fish broiled 
then I am sure that you do keep within your 
allowance for the table and will treat the fish 
this way : You will dry it well with a cloth, 
then brush it with melted butter, sprinkle salt 
and a little pepper, put It on the buttered 
bars of the broiler, and let the fire do the rest. 
Then after it is dished, sprinkle it with per- Broiled Fresh 
haps a few capers, surround it with broiled ^ ^ 
thin slices of bacon, and be on the alert to 
catch the first expression that flits over the 
face of the one who furnishes you with the 
aforesaid table allowance to see if all is well 
with the fish and consequently with you. 
Am I right? 

But I would be willing to wager the price Baked Fresh 
of a whole "catch " of codfish that I can tell ^^^''^ 
you of a bran new way to bake one. Read 



lo I GO A-MARKETING 

and see for yourself. Have the size that 
seems to find most favor in your family and 
fill it with a forcemeat made by mincing to 
paste a pound of raw codfish. Add to it 
half a pint of cream that has been just boiled, 
that 's all, and thickened with two eggs. 
Season with salt, a chopped onion — chopped 
so finely that it is of a paste consistency and 
fill the fish with the mixture. For pepper 
let me suggest that you use paprika in prefer- 
ence to any other brand. Cook till the fish 
is done and serve with any rich sauce that 
appeals to you. 

Any or all of the foregoing recipes may be 
applied to haddock, as you probably suspect 
— if you know anything at all about fish. 



You don't know, you housekeepers of 
America what a jolly good reputation you Ve 
got to live up to unless you happen to have 
read G. W. Steevens's clever book, **The 
Land of the Dollar," in which he says of our 
national breakfasts : " First you have fiiiit — 
wonderful pears that look like green stones 
and taste like the Tree of Life. Then mush, 
so they call oatmeal porridge, or wheatmeal 



I GO A-MARKETING n 

porridge or hominy porridge, a noble food 
with the nectarous American cream. Then 
fishes and meats, sausages, and bacon and eggs. 
Then strange farinaceous foods which you mar- 
vel to find yourself swallowing with avid gust 
— graham bread, soda biscuits, buckwheat or 
griddle cakes with butter and maple treacle. 
It is magnificent ; but it is indigestion. All 
the same, I look forward to the day when 
America shall produce an invention that will 
let me go across the Atlantic every morning 
for breakfast. I shall take a season ticket." 

Now let my humble pen chip in two or 
three things that shall help you to live up to 
this estimate of you. 

Suppose you are having a dish of fried Sweet Com 
eggs after a manner described later on in this '^^^^^ ** 
book. Go still further, and see fit to have 
some croquettes also. Do you know just 
what they should be? If in doubt let them 
be of canned sweet corn. Mix with half a 
can of the corn two-thirds of its quantity of 
mashed potatoes, salt and a good generous bit 
of melted butter. Then form into croquettes, 
dip in beaten egg and crumbs and fry to a 
fine color in hot fat. 

Or, as second choice, you might like hash 



12 I GO A-MARKETING 

Sublimated instead of the eggs fried. Now, look here ; 
""^^ you know me well enough by this time, I 
hope, to believe that when I suggest hash it is 
none of the commonplace minces that you 
shun at the table of your very best friend. 
Of what I have to say in the line of hash you 
won't be overdoing the thing if you refer to 
it for evermore as a " sublimated hash." See 
for yourself: Chop an onion and fiy it in a 
good bit of butter till it is tender and likewise 
brown. Then put into the butter two cup- 
fuls of diced cold mutton, diced not chopped, 
and one cupful of diced cold boiled potatoes. 
Pepper and salt to your fancy. Then put in 
four tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce and have 
ready some chopped parsley for sprinkling 
over the dish when it is served. 

Rice Muffins You might for a flyer try rice muffins 
with this hash. Have a cup of flour and 
sifted through it two heaping teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. Add to it a tablespoonful 
of sugar, a saltspoonful of salt, and pass 
this through a sieve. Have three eggs well 
beaten in a cup of milk with half a cup of 
melted butter and stir into the flour. When 
it is perfectly smooth add to it two cupfuls of 
cold boiled or steamed rice. Turn into 



I GO A-MARKETING 13 

small pans and bake in a hot oven. By grat- 
ing in a little nutmeg to these muffins you 
will have a delicious dish for luncheon. 

Now, our friend Steevens spoke of griddle Rhode la/and 
cakes and buckwheat cakes. Of these you ^o^""y^<^^ 
know all that is necessary for any housekeeper 
to know. But I '11 wager a good sum that 
Rhode Island meal is an unknown quantity 
to you. Make its acquaintance then as soon 
as possible and set about having Rhode Island 
johnnycakes often. You will want nothing 
but the meal, some milk and salt. Have 
them considerably thinner than ordinary flour 
griddle cakes and fry in a little fat on a hot 
griddle so that the edges are crisp and tooth- 
some. If you want to bake them have a cup 
of meal to a cup and one-half of milk with 
a pinch of salt, and bake in gem pans till 
brown. Instead of having butter with either 
the fried or baked specimens of this johnny- 
cake try some of our " nectarous cream." Is 
it a go ? 



Now and then, throughout this book, the 
directions for making a salad are brought in 
incidentally to the main topic of discourse. 



14 I GO A-MARKETING 

Nowhere are they treated as the piice de ri- 
sistanccy so to speak, of a chapter. And here 
are not many — only a few that go especially 
well in cold weather, when to have any variety 
at all in salads incurs a considerable outlay of 
rumination. Just a little inventive faculty and 
a firm purpose to have your table superior, 
even in details, to that of your dearest enemy, 
and you can with materials on hand in January 
have salads that give the eternal chicken and 
lobster with mayonnaise the go-by, — though, 
I fear me, the snubbing in the near future 
will come from the lobster itself. But that 's 
not to be discussed at just this minute. 
Red Cabbage Before this you have probably made red 
cabbage salad with a French dressing and 
with a spread of mayonnaise over it, so that 
you think you know it all, but have you tried 
adding to it some celery ? This is the way it 
is done. All the coarse outside leaves of the 
cabbage are removed and the inside is finely 
shredded. Then the best stalks of a head of 
celery are cut into inch pieces and put into 
the salad bowl, a layer of celery, then one of 
the cabbage, and so on, heaping a bit in the 
centre. Garnish with the fresh green leaves 
of the celery; pour a dressing, made of a 



Salad 



I GO A-MARKETING 15 

beaten egg, three tablespoonfuls of oil, two of 
vinegar, a saltspoon of salt, a dash of cay- 
enne, and a suspicion of mustard, over all, 
and let stand for half an hour in a cool place 
before serving. For luncheon, when you are 
having croquettes of left-over ham bits, or of 
cold tongue scraps, this goes very near to 
being what would tempt any sane person to 
ask for a second helping. 

Then there is a way to make an onion salad, Spanish 
that sets you to wondering why you never ^'"'"' ^"^^ 
heard of it before. Have the Spanish onions, 
and soak them four or five hours, after peel- 
ing, in cold water, changing the water every 
hour, or even oftener, if your time is n't too 
precious. Then slice and chop them, but 
not to the mussy stage. Freeze them, not 
too hard, but so they will be crisp and cold. 
Meanwhile, prepare a dressing of two-thirds 
oil to one-third vinegar, with salt and pep- 
per to taste, and pour over them. Serve 
immediately. But don't forget the garnish, 
which naturally suggests itself — parsley, to 
be sure, and plenty of it. With this salad? 
Well, we will suppose it is making its debut 
in your household at an after-theatre snack. 
So have with it toasted water crackers, a bit 



i6 I GO A-MARKETING 

of Swiss cheese^ a smoked herring or two. 
And beer, of course. 

Sardine Now, don't skip what is going down here 
^^^ about a sardine salad — you will miss it if you 
do. I know you will say you would n't fancy 
the oil in which they are preserved in a salad, 
and I can see that rather superior curl your 
lip takes on as you say it But soak them for 
an hour in vinegar, then remove the skin from 
them and arrange in a circle on your salad 
dish. In the centre heap pitted and quar* 
tered olives. Make a dressing of the strained 
juice of a lemon mixed with a tablespoonful 
of olive oil, a bit of salt and of paprika, and 
over all a sprinkling of capers. Then, take 
a taste of it when your turn comes, and be 
sorry you were inclined to pass by it. 

BruaaeiB Now and then, you know, we do have a 
^8oJ% ^^^ Brussels sprouts left over from the day 
before's dinner, and at the price usually asked 
we couldn't throw them away, and yet there 
weren't enough to pay for reheating. So, in 
order to be forehanded, and also to have 
the "makings" of a delicious salad in the 
house, get double the quantity you usually 
have the next time you are getting them, and 
be glad for every one that is left over, for the 



I GO A-MARKETING 17 

next day you will sprinkle a few drops of 
lemon juice over them, coat them with a 
mayonnaise, sprinkle with capers and sliced 
olives, and serve very cold. At a simple little 
dinner, where you are having "left-overs" 
daintily fixed up, this salad works in beau- 
tifully, or if you are giving a dinner that is as 
elaborate as anything you ever turn out, count 
on this salad to be one of the features of your 
dinner. 

A delicious oflFering to put before your Oyster Salad 
household some night is a salad of oysters. 
Have a quart of them, say, drain and wipe 
them well from their own liquor. Boil a cup 
of vinegar, and season it while boiling with 
salt and white pepper. Pour it over the oy- 
sters, and let them stand for two hours or so. 
Then drain them pretty dry, and lay on a bed 
of chopped celery in the salad bowl. If the 
oysters are very large cut in halves or quar- 
ters. Have a layer of chopped celery on top 
of the oysters, and coat thickly with mayon- 
naise. Be sure, however, that the oysters are 
perfectly cold before adding to the celery. 
Garnish with a few oyster crabs, pickled at 
the same time the oysters were pickled, and 
some sliced olives. To be very, very extrava- 



i8 I GO A-MARKETING 

— 

gant in making this salad, if you so want to 
be for the purpose of impressing some one, 
add to it a few sliced truffles that have been 
soaked in white wine for an hour or two. 
Nut Salad For some occasions, at this season of the 
year, a nut salad just fills the bill as nothing 
else can. Choose almost any kind of nuts, 
but preferably let them be mainly English 
walnuts. Have them in halves, or in quar- 
ters, and squeeze lemon juice over them fifteen 
minutes before dressing. Then add to them 
half their quantity of quartered olives, some 
very tender little celery leaves, and a thin 
mask of mayonnaise. Really, when you have 
turned out this salad, for a party supper, say, 
you need give yourselves very little uneasiness 
as to how the other viands will set with your 
guests. Such a salad is calculated to redeem 
a good many faults in other directions. 
Fruit Salad Just a word about a sweet salad, and this 
screed is ended. Oranges. It shall be of 
oranges — big, luscious, juicy, seedless oranges, 
that are at their height for the next two months 
or more. These you slice, after peeling, as 
you would an apple. Put a layer of them in 
a bowl, sprinkle with powdered sugar and a 
few drops of orange cura9oa. Then another 



I GO A-MARKETING 19 

layer of oranges, another of sugar, another 
fall of curafoa, and so on till the dish is fiilL 
Then, if there are half a dozen oranges used, 
pour over them about half a gill of brandy, 
either the plain brandy or apricot brandy. 
The latter, I find, is possessed of a mysterious 
flavor that, when added to an orange salad, 
just sets people to wondering why it is they 
have to go away from home to find such 
delights. 



FEBRUARY 

** To sing thi same tune^ as the saying is, is 
in e«uerything cloying and offensi^uei but men 
an gimrally pUasid ivith *variity.*^ 




NCE upon a time, one of the resource- 
less sort of housekeepers said to me 
that she was never quite so stumped 
as when she felt the economical burden laid 
upon her to utilize lamb or mutton "left- 
overs." Now, this has been quite the oppo- 
site of my experience. In fact, I wouldn't 
acknowledge that I found cold lamb a facer, 
anyway. 
RooBt Lamb Suppose we talk of a leg of lamb roasted in 
with Caper ^j^-g ^^y. . yj^^ ^^j^^ neatly removed, the cavity 

filled with a mushroom stuffing, then roasted 
in a hot oven and served with caper sauce 
and currant jelly. To be sure I know you 
would as soon have pledged yourself to break 
one of the commandments, as to serve caper 
sauce with roasted lamb, if I had not tempted 
you. But you will do it, now that the sug- 
gestion has entered your consciousness of gas- 
tronomical beauties. 

Or, if, in the first blush, it does n*t appeal 



I GO A-MARKETING 21 



to you, there 's this way of roasting lamb that Roast Lamb 

with C 
Pur4e 



I dare say is new to you. First, make an ""'*^^'''<>« 



onion puree, by mincing one quart of onions 
and boiling them till tender. Drain very dry, 
put them in a saucepan with two ounces of 
butter ; season with salt and pepper ; let them 
simmer for ten or fifteen minutes, but don't 
let them brown. Then add to them half a 
pint of cream, and press all through a sieve, 
when serving as sauce. 

Can you stand another novelty ? It's this. 
Put the lamb in the roasting-pan, and just a Roast Lamb 
half hour before you think it is to be done. Macaroni 
take it out and cover the bottom of the pan 
with boiled macaroni. Lay the lamb on this, 
and prick it all over that the juice may run 
over the macaroni. Moisten the macaroni 
with a little stock, too, if it threatens to get 
too dry or too brown. When the lamb is 
roasted take it out, heap the macaroni on a 
dish, pour a little tomato sauce over it, sprin- 
kle with Parmesan and send to table. Have 
a little tomato, or any other sauce that pleases 
you, with the lamb, if you feel that you must 
have a sauce. 

Now, for the second day — no, the third 
day, rather. Skip a day before dishing a re« 



22 I GO A-MARKETING 

Broiled Lamb heating of the lamb. Then get some good 
Stioea g|j^.gg from the joint, even as to size and thick- 
ness, and lay them for an hour in a dressing 
of two tablespoonftils of oil, one of Tarragon 
vinegar, with salt and pepper. Take them 
out of the dressing, dip in bread crumbs, broil 
over a hot fire, and serve with a tartar sauce, 
or, if you like, with some of the onion puree, 
if any was left. 

Fried Lamb ^^ Y^^ ^^^^ chutney, and of course you do, 

witii have some neat slices of cold lamb spread 

Chutney ^^ ^j^j^ palate-tickler, roll each slice up, coat 

with crumbs, and fry in boiling fat till brown. 
Skewer the rolled slices to keep them in shape. 
When serving, sprinkle with a few drops of 
lemon juice. It will be a question with you, 
probably, which of these two ways of reheat- 
ing is better. But that 's the sort of recipes 
with which to load your intelligence, so don't 
complain. 
Lamb Slioeu Can you digest another warmed-over dish 
witti Onions ^f i^mb ? This time have the slices thick 
roome rather than thin, and put them in a stewpan 
with enough sherry wine to cover them. Cover 
closely, and let heat slowly while you are toss- 
ing together, in a little butter, some minced 
boiled onion and button mushrooms. Color 



I GO A-MARKETING 23 



slightly, and moisten with a little rich stock. 
Take up the slices of lamb, arrange in a circle 
on a dish, fill the centre with the onions and 
mushrooms, pour the wine over all, and take 
the trick. It*s yours. In case you don't 
like as much wine as is required to cover the 
lamb, use half wine and half water, and the 
juice of a lemon. 

If you want to try the reheating of the LambSUoea 
lamb in the chafing dish, have it sliced as ^.^^^ ^ 
neatly as possible, and make ready in the chaf- 
ing dish a sauce of one wineglass of port wine, 
half a pint of good stock, thickened, a tea- 
spoonful of walnut ketchup, the same of 
French mustard, and a pinch of salt. When 
this is hot put in the lamb, and serve as soon 
as heated through. 

If with any of the foregoing recipes you 
think you would fancy a border of rice, have 
it, by all means. But have plenty of butter 
in the water in which the rice is boiled ; or if 
it is steamed, have it moistened well with but- 
ter just the same. 

You might fancy this rice border with lamb Lamb 
croquettes. These, you know, are made by Oroquettea 
having the lamb chopped finely, and added to 
it half its quantity of chopped mushrooms. 



24 I GO A-MARKETING 

Moisten with a little tomato sauce, shape and 
fry. 
Lamb Salad Surely you will not take offence if I assume, 
at this stage of the game, that you are edu- 
cated up to a point where you can appreciate 
the delights that centre in a lamb salad. You 
dice the lamb, having it free of all fat and sinew. 
Then put a layer of it in the bottom of the 
salad bowl. Have a dressing of oil, vinegar, 
pepper, and salt, with a bit of French mus- 
tard in it, at hand, and with this sprinkle the 
lamb. Bestrew it, too, with a chopped anchovy 
or two, or more, if you are fond of anchovies. 
Then put in a layer of cold boiled potatoes, 
diced — more dressing; another stratum of 
lamb, and so on till the dish is full, having it 
mound-shaped. Garnish with sliced gherkins 
and capers, and let it go at that. 



I would that fewer nursery rhymers had 
taken trips to market for their text when their 
pens took to turning out jingles; for good- 
ness knows that what with ** To market, to 
market to buy a fet pig," and " To market, 
to market, all on a market day,** keeping up 
a continuous jig-like theme in my mind, to 



I GO A-MARKETING 25 

say nothing of the insistent interruptions by 
the "little pig that went to market" I am 
well-nigh distracted when I try to get dry-as- 
dust facts from the marketman anent common- 
place eatables. To be sure, if I go in search 
of frogs* legs, say, and the story of the frog 
who went a-wooing recurs to my mind three 
or four times in a minute, it seems quite ap- 
propriate and doesn't interfere in the least 
with my driving a pretty sharp bargain with 
the fish-dealer. But, so far as I know, no 
poet or writer of assonance has taken it into 
his head to sing a song of livers, kidneys, and 
such like edibles of which I am telling you 
herein, and no wonder, you may say, if I don't 
succeed in making my story fairly interesting, 
as well as appetizing — though from the na- 
ture of it if it is one it must be the other. 

Everybody knows, I fancy, that when one Kidneys en 
has cut off the skin of some lambs' kidneys, ^'^^^^ 
and then cut the kidneys into quarter-inch- 
thick slices, seasoned them with salt and pep- 
per, dipped them in oil, and then threaded 
them on skewers with alternating slices of 
bacon a brochette of kidneys is well under 
way. To complete the operation they are 
dipped into oil, then into bread-crumbs and 



a6 I GO A-MARKETING 

broiled over a slow fire. In serving there's 
no reason in the world why one should not 
indulge one's fancy for any simple sauce that 
will help the kidneys to tickle one's palate. 
Good as this dish is, I must confess I like 
it better when chickens* livers are substi- 
tuted for the kidneys. By the way, do you 
know that every up-to-date marketman has 
them all skewered, and all that you have to 
do is to add the seasoning and see to the 
broiling ? 
Fried Another really delightful way of serving 
ifWneys with i^mbs' kidneys is to prepare in a frying-pan a 

tablespoonful of chopped onions, a small 
chopped shallot, a clove of garlic and as many 
fresh mushrooms as you feel like buying, with 
salt and pepper to taste, and an ounce or so 
of butter ; don't let the vegetables color at all, 
and perhaps the best way to avoid this is to 
add a gill or so of any kind of wine and the 
same of cream. Let this sauce mull a while 
on the back of the range, while you broil the 
number of kidneys desired, after having 
skinned and split each one in two lengthwise. 
Dish and pour over them the sauce, removing 
from it the garlic. If you Ve never heard 
of this way for preparing kidneys, it seems 



I GO A-MARKETING 27 



to me that you should be very grateful to me 
for calling your attention to it. 

And may your gratitude be re-enforced 
after you have tried cooking veal kidneys in Minced 
this feshion: Mince three very small ones, ' "^^^ 
after removing all the fat and fibrous parts, 
and fry them in butter over a hot fire. Don't 
let them get wizzled up, but just done to a 
turn, then take from the frying-pan and add 
to the butter in which they were fried some 
tomato sauce highly seasoned, half a can of 
mushrooms, some lemon juice, and chopped 
parsley; pour over the kidneys and even if 
you serve them in just this manner they will 
prove a great success ; but should you wish to 
make it a dish to linger in one's memory, then 
garnish it with macaroni croquettes. Ever 
make them ? Well, boil a pound of macaroni Maoaroni 
in salted water for fifteen minutes. Then drain ^'^^^^^^^ 
and cut it into quarter-inch lengths ; put back 
into the saucepan with a little grated cheese, a 
little salt, cayenne pepper and a gill of cream. 
Let it get perfectly cold, then mould into 
croquettes, either cylinder-shaped or any other 
form, only have them very small; dip in egg 
and bread-crumbs and fry a pretty brown. 



28 I GO A-MARKETING 

These macaroni croquettes, by the way, 
make a suitable garnish for any number of 
dishes ; try them with veal cutlets some time, 
or with thin, dainty slices of ham broiled for 
luncheon, and you'll get more than your 
labor for your pains. 
Fried Calf's If you are thinking to have liver, then my 
^"'^'' advice to you is to get if possible only that 
of a calf. To buy that of an older " beef 
critter" is so often a waste of time and 
money that it 's just as well to forego buying 
it altogether — it is so apt to have too much 
flavor, so to speak, or be tough or stringy, 
and wholly unsatisfactory. But get a calf's 
liver, and something of a treat is in store for 
you, whether you fry it with bacon or pre- 
pare it in this way : Cut up finely three or 
four good-sized white onions and fry them in 
butter till of a golden brown. Drain the 
butter off and cover the onions with white 
stock ; let cook for half an hour, then moisten 
with more stock and season with pepper, salt, 
chopped parsley, and just a suspicion of lemon 
juice. Fry the slices of liver, which should 
not be over half an inch in thickness, in 
enough butter to keep them from harden- 
ing ; drain off the butter and add the above 



I GO A--MARKETING 29 

sauce; let it boil up once, then serve, and 
garnish with slices of lemon. Perhaps this is 
a bit heavy for a break^t dish — to my 
mind it is decidedly so — while for luncheon, 
where one is having a salad of watercress, or 
for an entree at dinner it seems to be quite 
in its rightful place. 

If the liver is to be served for breakfast, 
then it is a good idea to roll the slices in a 
little flour, sprinkle melted butter over them 
and broil over the coals, squeezing just enough 
lemon juice and sprinkling just enough 
chopped parsley over them to make them 
grateful to the taste and eye when served. 

But why don't you try to invent a sauce Sauce for 
for calPs liver ? Fry it in plenty of butter, ^^f'^ ^'^^'' 
then add to the butter, when the liver is re- 
moved, anything that your palate suggests or 
which your common sense approves. For 
instance, put in a few tiny slices of gherkin, 
a handful of mushrooms, a soup9on of tomato 
sauce, a few capers, a little lemon juice, 
chopped chives or chevril, chopped shallot or 
any herb or condiment that you may have in 
the house. Of course you don't want to use 
all of these articles, but try a combination of 
any two or three or more of them, with the 



30 I GO A-MARKETING 



addition of a little stock and — who knows? 
— you may invent a sauce that will make you 
as famous as was Bechamel, Conde or Careme, 
Success be with you ! 



" Do be kind enough some of these times 
when you are scribbling about the good things 
at market to bear in mind that not every one 
is hale and hearty and blessed with digestive 
organs that could stand a diet of shingle nails. 
Give a thought to the poor unfortunates that 
are obliged to think twice before gratifying 
their appetites once." Thus wailed one of the 
said " poor unfortunates " once upon a time, 
and as a result of the complaint I have since 
been " holding them in thought *' to a consid- 
erable extent, with a view to making the ma- 
terial aspect of a period of invalidism and 
convalescence a bit the brighter. 

Of course we all know that the list of eata- 
bles allowed an invalid or a convalescent is of 
necessity a rather short one ; but there is an 
infinite number of ways for varying the list, 
if one will use a little judgment and good 
taste in preparing the dishes. We have all 
had experience in seeing a sick person make 



I GO A-MARKETING 31 

a wry face at the mention of gruel or por- 
ridge, and precious little we blamed him for 
it, to tell the truth. But the whole condi- 
tion of affairs may be changed by preparing 
it in this way: Have a pint of good clear 
chicken broth, free from fat and not too chhken 
strong ; boil it, and into it shake slowly a cup Broth with 
of oatmeal or wheaten grits ; let it cook for ^^^"^^^ 
half an hour or so, pass it through a wire sieve, 
and add to it a little more broth if that is 
necessary to make it fit to be sipped easily 
from a cup without using a spoon. Take it 
to the sick-room with the remark, " I have 
brought you a little puree of oatmeal,'* and 
my word for it you will not see a drop left in 
the cup. 

And a puree of barley will be quite as Pur^eof 
acceptable. Soak the barley over night, and ^^^y 
the next morning cover it with chicken broth ; 
boil until the barley bursts, adding broth from 
time to time as it cooks away ; when the broth 
begins to thicken, which will be at the end of 
about three hours' time, strain it through a 
very fine sieve. Serve it in a cup ; and if you 
dare do such a thing, add a tiny bit of butter 
to it. It makes it a deal more palatable, and 
I don't believe it will harm the patient ; but 



32 I GO A^MARKETING 



it's quite possible the physician in charge 
may think otherwise. 
Beef Tea There are ways and ways for making beef 
tea ; but the best of all ways, it seems to me, 
is to have round steak about one inch in 
thickness, broil it for two minutes on each side 
over a brisk fire, cut it up into inch squares, 
cover it with cold water, and let it steep, not 
boil, for two hours. Serve it in a cup, and 
salt when serving. You and the ailing one 
will find, I think, that the broiling of the 
steak gives the tea a flavor that makes it ^^ hit 
the spot " — a consummation devoutly to be 
wished when one is catering for an invalid. 

Cream Soup Cream soups make a pleasing change after 
plain broths or teas. Take any white stock 
that is rich, free from fat and well seasoned. 
Put into a saucepan half a pint of the stock 
and the same quantity of cream. When it 
comes to a boil add one tablespoonfiil of flour 
thoroughly moistened with cold milk, and let 
it boil at once. Serve with it finger-pieces of 
thin buttered toast. 

Sabayon of A highly nutritious dish is made by putting 
four egg-yolks into a double boiler, diluting 
them with half a pint of clear chicken broth, 
and beating the mixture with a whip or beater 



Chicken 



I GO A-MARKETING 33 

until it becomes thick and frothy. When it 
is done add two teaspoonflils of sherry to it, 
and serve in a cup ; have it just as hot as pos- 
sible. And if the person for whom you con- 
coct this appetizing affair insists upon knowing 
its name, you may say that it is a sabayon of 
chicken. 

And, by the way, what an endless amount CMoken 
of dainty edibles may be made from chicken ! ^^^^^ 
Take a chicken custard, for instance ; could 
anything be daintier ? Have a cupful of good 
clear chicken stock, and add to it an equal 
quantity of cream ; cook it for a few minutes, 
then put it into a double boiler, and add the 
beaten yolks of three eggs and a little salt. 
Cook until the mixture thickens a little, and 
then pour it into custard cups to be served 
cold. It 's an ungrateful, whimsical, and 
grumpy sort of an invalid who does n't reckon 
as a red-letter day the time when he first 
tasted of a chicken custard. But whether or 
not this is the case, you will have to keep 
right on shaking up your ideas and producing 
other dishes. 

In all probability you will try your hand Tapioca Jelly 
at jelly-making; and when you have ex- 
hausted your own stock of recipes try making 

3 



34 I GO A-MARKETING 

a tapioca jelly. To prepare it, soak one cup 
of tapioca in three cups of water over night. 
In the morning put it into a double boiler 
with a cup of hot water, and let it simmer 
until perfectly clear, stirring often. Sweeten 
to taste and flavor with the juice of half a 
lemon and two tablespoonfuls of wine. Pour 
into cups, and set away to get perfectly cold. 
When serving, sprinkle with powdered sugar 
and heap a little whipped cream on it. . 

Or it may be that a blanc-mange made 
with tapioca will seem to you worth the try- 
ing. If so, soak a cupful of tapioca in two 
cups of water over night. In the morning 
put it into the double boiler, and stir into it 
two cups of boiling milk, three tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, and a pinch of salt. Cook it slowly 
for fifteen minutes, stirring several times. 
Take it from the fire, and flavor with wine 
or vanilla. Let it harden in small moulds, 
and serve with powdered sugar and whipped 
cream. 
Violet Jelly And some day when the patient is unusually 
capricious try surprising him or her with a 
violet jelly. A woman I know told me not 
long ago that she had found it more eflicacious 
than a dozen *' soft answers." Have a pint 



I GO A-MARKETING 3S 

of clear boiling syrap, and into it throw a 
heaping handful of fresh violets, after remov- 
ing the stalks ; let this simmer, tightly cov- 
ered, for half an hour. Then strain the liquor, 
and add to it half an ounce of gelatine dis- 
solved in a very little water, the juice of an 
orange, and two teaspoonfuls of violet vege- 
table coloring, which is as harmless as so much 
cold water. Turn it into a mould, and set on 
ice to harden. 

When boiled or steamed rice is ordered, try Steamed 
preparing it in this way. Wash a cupful of '^^ 
it thoroughly and put into the double boiler 
with just enough water to cover it. When 
the rice is nearly done, pour off the water, if 
any remains, and add one cup of milk and a 
little salt. Let the rice cook thoroughly till 
done. Beat an egg well, and the last thing 
before taking the rice from the fire stir the 
egg in as lightly as possible, and serve hot 
with sugar and cream. The egg makes the 
dish a bit more attractive and considerably 
more nutritious. 

I wonder if you have ever tried cooking a tnva/id'a 
lamb chop or cutlet in this way. Have three '^ 
cutlets cut, two of them rather thinner than 
the third, then tie them together, the thick 



36 I GO A-MARKETING 

one in the middle. Broil over a hot fire till 
the outside cutlets are burnt to a crisp, and at 
that stage you will find the inside one in just 
the right condition for serving ; salt it, and 
serve piping hot. With it serve a baked 
potato that has been pressed through a sieve. 
Sprinkle the potato with salt and moisten it 
with a little cream. To be sure you may 
think that a somewhat expensive way of cook- 
ing a lamb chop, and so it is from some points 
of view; but it will set any self-respecting 
convalescent at least two days ahead on his 
journey to complete recovery, and when you 
think of it in that way you see it 's positively 
cheap. All these things, yea, and a thousand 
more, must be taken into consideration when 
one is in attendance upon a sick person. 



To say that every one should have a chafing- 
dish in these days were to be trite — every- 
one should have seven chafing-dishes, or as 
near that number as possible; not one for 
every day in the week exactly, but rather 
that, if you are having a little after-the-opera 
or after-the-theatre jollification and have a 
dozen or so hungry ones to feed, there may 



I GO A-MARKETING 37 

be enough to go round, and also that you 
may have a variety of dainties. 

Not all will want creamed oysters, of Oreamed 

, . , Ousters 

course, but you can set a pretty girl to pre- 
paring this dish for those who do want it. 
Give her about half a pint of rich, thick 
cream, an ounce or so of butter and a tea- 
spoonful of flour which she will braid together 
in the most approved cooking-school fashion 
for thickening the cream when it is hot. 
Then she should put in two dozen or so oy- 
sters that have been well drained and freed from 
any bits of shell. If you can trust her to do 
so, let her season the dish with a dash of red 
pepper, and salt, and a shake or two of celery 
saltl When the edges of the oysters begin to 
frizzle, have ready for her either little strips of 
toast or some crackers on hot plates, on which 
to serve the oysters. If you find that more 
than three persons will be apt to bid for the 
creamed oysters, you will want rather more 
than two dozen, I fancy ; still, you will know 
best about that. 

If you have any cold fish in the house, hali- Flaked Cold 
but or cod or haddock that has been boiled or ^^^ ''' 
baked, not fried, have it flaked up in good- 
sized pieces and marinated for three or four 



38 I GO A-MARKETING 

hours in a tablespoonful each of oil and vine- 
gar^ a dash of cayenne, the juice of an onion 
and salt to taste. When you are to use it 
have hot in the chafing-dish three teaspoon- 
fuls each of rich tomato sauce, sherry wine 
and butter, putting the butter in and melting 
it first. When these are well blended to- 
gether, lay in the fish and stir it about in the 
sauce till quite hot. This, let me tell you, 
will not go a-begging for admirers. It is a 
particularly savory tidbit, and on a cold night 
is its own best recommendation. 
Lobster j wonder if you will say a recipe for lobster 
d la Newberg is altogether too stale if I under- 
take to tell it to you. I know its age just as 
well as you do, and I also know that I could 
weep bitterly, if it would do any good, at some 
of the concoctions called by that name that I 
have had put before me, and which, worse 
than all, I have been expected to eat. So 
right here I shall put on record my way of 
preparing that delicious dish, and if you don't 
care to read it, why skip it, of course. Into 
the chafing dish put two ounces of butter and 
let it melt; then put in the meat of a two- 
pound lobster cut into dice-shaped pieces and 
let them cook till they are really fried a bit* 



I GO A-MARKETING 39 

Then turn low the flame of the lamp while 
you pour in a little less than a pint of cream 
in which has been beaten three eggs, seasoned 
with salt and red peppen Just as this is hot 
add a scant wine-glass of sherry and let it 
heat once more, regulating the flame all the 
time so that it cannot boil. For if it does 
the jig is up, the eggs will be sure to curdle, 
and you will wish to goodness you had n't 
undertaken it. Have little triangles of 
toasted bread on which to serve the lobster, 
and if it turns out the success it should, your . 
reputation among your guests will be for all 
time established as a hostess who knows her 
business from A to Z. 

If yon will get some chicken livers you can Chicken 
prepare a very appetizing dish with very little ^"J^'^y^'*^ 
trouble. Melt an ounce of butter in the 
chafing dish and in it put, say, eight or ten 
livers that have been salted well and rolled 
in a litde flour. Let them cook pretty fast 
for ten minutes, or till you think they are 
done, then put with them half a pint of hot 
water and a teaspoonful of any extract of beef, 
with what salt and pepper your superior judg- 
ment deems suitable. When this is hot turn 
in a gill of sherry, and a dozen olives pitted and 



Rabbit 



40 I GO A-MARKETING 

quartered. Just a dash of lemon juice and 
the deed is done, provided you have ready 
some toast for the serving of the livers. 

If you have n*t at the time of night when 
you will be serving these dishes a fire over 
which you can toast the bread, you can have 
one of the guests preparing the bread in a 
chafing dish. Cut the slices of the size you 
like and fry them delicately in a very little 
butter and they will go finely in this way. 
iJKe/s^ Because you may think I don't know how 
to make one if I say nothing, I suppose I 
shall have to offer a word or so about Welsh 
rabbits. Melt an ounce of butter in the 
chafing-dish and then sdr in and let melt 
slowly a pound of cheese cut up into very 
small pieces. Season this as you go along 
with paprika, a little salt, and mustard as you 
think you like it. When the cheese is quite 
melted pour in, very slowly, a little beer or 
ale, about two gills in all. Then when it is 
well blended with the cheese stir in a couple 
of eggs well beaten and serve on crackers. 
Did you ever try making your rabbits with 
ginger ale? Really they are good in that 
way, and it is very palatable to drink when 
you are eating them. And cider is delicious 



I GO A-MARKETING 41 

served with rabbits, also — the champagne 
cider. Try it some time. 

For a golden buck, prepare the cheese as QoidenBuok 
for a rabbit, but on each plate when you are 
serving it place a poached egg. These must 
be prepared in another dish while the rabbit 
is under process of construction. So, you 
see, I wasn't so far off in my calculations, 
rapid as they seemed to you at the time, when 
I said my little say about seven chafing dishes. 

Suppose you have on hand a pint of rich Egga 
tomato sauce. Heat this in the chafing-dish j^J.^ '" 
and poach in it two eggs. Lift them out and 
lay on a hot dish while you poach two more. 
Continue in this way till you have half-a-dozen 
eggs poached. Serve one or two as you like, 
on a slice of toast or fried bread, pour some 
of the tomato sauce round, sprinkle grated 
Parmesan cheese over each and send them 
around the table on their mission. 

If you are fond of curry try some curried Curried Egga 
eggs. Melt in the chafing-dish two ounces 
of butter, and fry in it two small onions, 
sliced ; take these out and stir in a dessert- 
spoonful of curry powder and a teaspoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce. When these are 




42 I GO A-MARKETING 



well mixed add half a dozen well-beaten eggs. 
Cook quickly and serve. 
Creamed Perhaps you have a pet recipe for creamed 
Chicken chicken, and I don't doubt it is all such a re- 
cipe should be ; but let me suggest that, in- 
stead of putting chicken and cream and all 
the other things into the chafing-dish at the 
same time, you melt the butter first and then 
stir in the chicken and let it cook for two or 
three minutes before you put in the cream, or 
bechamel, or whatever it is you use. The 
flavor of the dish will be very much richer 
and more palatable to most persons. For, be- 
tween ourselves, I think that creamed chicken 
is apt to be rather a flat and tasteless aflair, 
and will stand quite a little bracing up. 

I hope you won't want to spoil the taste of 
any of these dishes by having sweets after 
them, in the way of fancy cakes, etc. If you 
do, you may choose them for yourselves. 
I '11 have none of them. 



V- 



MARCH 



<* So comes a nckoning 'when the banquet V o'rr, — 
The dreadful reckonings and men smile no more,'''* 

THERE could n't be a better time than 
the present in which to have a smoke- 
talk, mesdames. There, there, now, 
pray don't be alarmed ; I 've no notion of 
passing round any of the popular brands of 
cigars. Neither would I so much as offer you 
cigarettes, albeit the latest scientific utterance 
has pronounced them harmless. 

No, our talk shall be of some of the smoked 
and salted viands that, while they may not 
perhaps come under the head of delicacies or 
indelicacies of the season, are decidedly appe- 
tizing, and quite worthy of having consider- 
able attention given to the best ways and means 
of serving them. 

And have n't you been saddened hundreds Salt Fish 
of times when reflecting upon the disregard "''** Cream 
of details that makes of a dish of salt-fish and 
cream nothing but a pasty and altogether hor- 
rid mess ? But a dish of salted cod becomes 
delicacy itself if the fish is shredded while raw, 
all skin and bone removed, washed several 



44 I GO A-MARKETING 



t 



times in cold water and cooked in plenty of 

• fresh water; then it should be drained and 

covered with cream, which has been heated 

'^ and thickened with an egg or two beaten up 

* well in a tablespoohful or so of cream; add 
' a dash of cayenne, to give it a zest, and you 

• have prepared for breakfast or luncheon a 

' — dainty that will quite justify you in fancying 

yourself for the rest of the day. And that *s 
I a wonderfully comfortable state of mind in 

^ which to find oneself 

^ Bait Fish Perhaps, however, for a luncheon dish you 

""^^fl^ft"' ^^^^^ rather have the codfish served with 
brown butter. In which case you flake and 
freshen it as before, and cook in plenty of 
water. Take it up on a hot dish and pour 
over it a sauce made of butter, in which you 
have fned minced onion and a handful of 
chopped parsley till they are brown. And you 
can vary this sauce infinitely : add a bay leaf 
or two, or a few capers, or some chopped sweet 
red peppers, and get a new flavor with each 
addition. 

The subject of codfish balls I won't take 
up here. I fear I might make it too exhaus- 
tive. And, besides, every housekeeper seems 
to have a chosen way for preparing them. 



I GO A-MARKETING 45 

I wish as much could be said about that Fried Coda' 
too-little-appreciated genuine delicacy — fresh '^"fi'"** 
cod's tongues. They are delicious when boiled 
till tender, and then served with brown but- 
ter, as suggested above for codfish. And they 
are just as good, and some think even better, 
if they are dipped in milk, then rolled one by 
one in flour, and fried in plenty of butter for 
about ten minutes. You can simply pour 
the butter on them when serving, with a little 
chopped parsley scattered over all, or you can 
put into the frying-pan, after taking the tongues 
out, a gill or two of tomato sauce, and serve 
this separately in a sauceboat, serving each 
tongue on a slice of toast. Usually it will be 
found necessary to soak the salted tongues for 
twenty-four hours or more in water, changing 
it once or twice, as seems necessary. 

To be sure there's considerable trouble and 
no small amount of care involved in having 
these edibles, or any others, for that matter, 
quite as one would like, but some old wise- 
acre has said that life's cares are its comforts, 
and if one only has a firm belief, rooted and 
grounded in past experience, in this bit of 
philosophy it 's just as easy to apply it to cook- 
ing as to panting. 



46 I GO A-MARKETING 

Broifed And a litde of this care used in the broil- 
Smoked -^ ^f smoked salmon redeems it from the 

Salmon ° 

charred and uninviting dish it too often makes. 
It is best to cut the salmon into small strips^ 
wrap each strip in a piece of buttered paper, 
and then broil over a clear fire. When done 
remove the paper, and serve the fish on a 
piping hot dish, at once. And if you want 
a sauce for it make one by cooking a minced 
onion in a gill of vinegar and twice as much 
water, adding, as the onion shows signs of 
tenderness, two ounces of fresh butter, four 
finely chopped hard-boiled egg yolks, and a 
little chopped parsley. 
BoliBd Salt Of course you know how to cook salt mack- 

wnh^Horae- ^^^^ — ^^^ could sue me for libel if J said 
radish Sauce aught to the contrary. But do you, I won- 
der, ever try preparing it in my favorite way ? 
This is the manner of it : Soak the mackerel 
for twelve hours, changing the water several 
times. Then boil it in an abundance of water, 
in which there is a bay leaf, two or three 
onions, some parsley and the juice of a lemon. 
The fish should cook very slowly, and not be 
allowed to come to pieces. When they are 
done, serve them on a folded napkin, with a 
sauce made by reducing a pint of cream to one- 



I GO A-MARKETING 47 

half, adding to it an ounce of butter, and 
thickening it with two egg yolks. Then add 
to it half its quantity of grated horse-radish, 
heating it again, without boiling. In most 
cases it is necessary to add salt to this sauce, 
but I prescribe no quantity. I only advise 
being skittish about the amount when it is to 
be used for a salt fish. If you are to have 
smoked mackerel, broil instead of boiling it 
and serve with it the cream horse-radish sauce. 

And then there are smoked and salted her- Smoked 
ring, that if cooked judiciously make life at ^^^""^ 
least a bit more comfortable. It is best to 
soak them for five or six hours in water and 
then for two hours in sweet, fresh milk, after 
which you can work out some wonderful dishes 
with them. If they have been salted only, 
fry in butter and serve them on potatoes 
mashed with cream. But if the herring are 
smoked as well as salted, split them down the 
back and cook in enough milk to cover. 
Cook till thoroughly done, and then serve on 
a very hot dish with branches of parsley 
around, and a little sweet rich cream poured 
over them. 

But, to my thinking, the best of all the 
smoked and salted fish are the finnan baddies. 



48 I GO A^MARKETING 



Finnan And one of the best ways of cooking them is 
ea with ^ pgj. ^^^ j^|. described for cooking herring. 

But the baddies are much less salt, and require 
little, if any, soaking. Or, if you prefer, you 
can put them in a buttered baking-pan, pour 
cream and bread crumbs over them and brown 
in a hot oven. Give them a little more 
cream when serving. And again after you 
and your household have partaken of this dish 
and pronounced it good, hard to beat, etc., you 
will have occasion to be pleased with yourself, 
which, being interpreted, means of course be- 
ing perfectly satisfied with all the world. 



It is possible, nay, probable, that you, 
mesdames, with all the calls that the Lenten 
season makes upon your spiritual selves, find 
little time for ordering or arranging dinners ; 
furthermore — and it 's in no way to your dis- 
credit — it may be that with so much of each 
day given over to reflection and concentrated 
thought you experience a sort of disinclination 
to give heed to things material. Therefore it 
behooves me to be alive to my duty, which 
in the premises certainly seems to prescribe 
that I shall think and plan a bit for you ; and 



I GO A-MARKETING 49 



I herewith submit, as the result of a goodly 
amount of cogitation on my part, a menu 
which I hope will strike you as being a very 
good sort of "working model," should you 
not care to follow it to the letter : — 

Consomme maigre with asparagus points. 

Lake trout with court bouillon. 

Macaroni timbales with tomato sauce. 

Casserole of fillets of sole. 

Oyster souffles. 

Coffee cream glacie. Almond pudding. 

You see that such a menu provides a dinner 
perfectly within the rule implied by ^^ diner 
maigrcy* though it can in no sense be called 
a fast-day dinner. In fact, the very phrase is 
a contradiction. If you are fasting, you do 
not dine; you simply eat to live — a very 
different thing. 

And now for particulars. No need to tell 
you how to make the soup ; you have stacks 
of cookery books that will give you the infor- 
mation necessary for the making of a good 
clear consomme. As for the asparagus points, 
it will be quite as well from all points of view 
to buy the canned asparagus tips, and cook 
a little in salted water, adding them to the 
soup about five minutes before it is served. 

4 



50 I GO A-MARKETING 

Boiled Lake Perhaps your housekeepers* guides may not 
be sufficiently explicit in regard to cooking 
the lake trout in the manner suggested^ so I 
will tell you in detail. In the first place, you 
take equal quantities of white French wine — 
as inexpensive as you please — and water, one 
small onion, a bouquet of parsley, thyme, etc., 
some peppercorns, and a proper amount of 
salt. Let this boil for fifteen minutes, and 
you have as good a court bouillon as one 
could wish. Into it put the trout, tied into 
any shape you desire, and boil until tender ; 
remove it, and serve on a fish paper or nap- 
kin ; garnish with fresh green parsley sprays. 
For the sauce, you will melt some butter in a 
part of the court bouillon, and serve sepa- 
rately. You should find good lake trout in 
the market now, and at a price that does n't 
confine them to the list of luxuries. Are n't 
you glad? 

Have you any idea how many ways are 
known to expert cooks for preparing maca- 
roni ? I have n't. But I should not be 
surprised to see offered for sale any day 
a publication setting forth "One Thousand 
Ways to Cook Macaroni," and I hope that 
macaroni timbales, in case such an event 



I GO A-MARKETING 51 

comes to pass^ will be given the place of 
honor. Try making them in this way, and ^ooaroni 
you Will agree with me. Boil the macaroni in 
plenty of salted water till it is tender, but not 
"mushy." Drain off the water, and add, 
with all thoughts of economy thrown to the 
winds, melted butter ; stir it in well, and add a 
goodly sprinkling of grated Parmesan cheese 
and cayenne pepper. Line a mould with the 
very best puflF-paste you know how to make, 
rolled as thinly as possible, and put in the 
macaroni ; cover with a round of the paste, 
lay a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and 
bake in a hot oven for about thirty minutes. 
Unmould on a hot dish, and pour round it 
some tomato sauce made from the best recipe 
given in any of your gastronomical literature. 

Then consult the aforesaid literature still Caaaeroieof 
further, and select therefrom the most appe- ^^'^*** ^^ 
tizing recipe for making a stuffing of bread- 
crumbs, when you have it properly prepared 
spread with it some fillets of sole, and tie 
them into shape with a little thread. Now 
put into a casserole, or stewpan, three or four 
ounces of butter, two minced onions, and the 
fish ; let it fry for five or six minutes, then 
add to it two or three gills of bechamel sauce 



52 I GO A-MARKETING 

(see cookery books once more), a cupful of 
chopped mushrooms, and a claret-glass of 
claret. Cover the pan closely, and cook in 
the oven for half an hour. When finished, 
remove the strings from the fillets, and serve 
in a deep dish with the liquor in which they 
were cooked poured over them. And there 
you have a dish fit to tickle the palate of any 
king, or knave, that ever lived. Later in the 
season, when lobsters are selling at a more 
reasonable price, try substituting them for 
the soles, and your delight will be increased 
several-fold. 
Oyster Very likely you know as much or more 
ouffl 9 ^^^^ J j^ about making oyster souffles, but, 
be that as it may, I have the floor, and am 
going to tell you what I do know about them, 
for I may never get another chance. My 
way is to blanch two dozen good oysters in 
their own liquor, then cut them into dice, 
and while they are cooling prepare a sauce of 
two ounces each of butter and flour, a dust 
of cayenne, a little salt, the yolks of three 
eggs, and half a pint of rich milk; when 
it is thick enough and smooth enough I put 
in the oysters and their liquor, pour the mix- 
ture into little souffle cases, sprinkle each with 



I GO A-MARKETING 53 



brpwned bread-crumbs and bits of butter, 
and bake in a moderate oven for eighteen 
minutes ; then serve at once. How do you 
think you would like to try that way of mak- 
ing them ? 

Now, you will admit that I very seldom Coffee 
presume to tell you how to prepare sweets, ^J^^ 
but to-day my story would be incomplete 
if I were to omit the directions for making a 
coffee cream glacee. It is easy as can be; 
that is, if you can freeze things. Beat the 
yolks of four eggs in a basin with four ounces 
of powdered sugar, standing the basin in an- 
other of hot water, so that they may get quite 
warm, but not hot ; add to them a gill of 
strong coffee, beat it all together till it is 
light and creamy and quite cold. Then add 
to it a pint of stiffly whipped cream, pour the 
mixture into a mould, and bury in ice and salt 
for two hours. Unmould on the prettiest 
piece of lace paper you have when serving. 

Perhaps I run the risk of overdoing the Almond 
matter by telling you how to make an almond ^"^^'"9 
pudding, but it does harmonize so delightfully 
with coffee glacee that 'twould be actually 
sinful to leave you in ignorance of how it 
b made. It 's simple, too, simple as a b a 



54 I GO A-MARKETING 

You just beat up the yolks of five and the 
whites of three eggs with a large tablespoonful 
of rose-water, and add gradually to it four 
ounces of powdered sugar and four ounces of 
freshly ground almonds mixed with a few 
small whole ones. Beat this thoroughly for 
ten or fifteen minutes, pour into a well-but- 
tered pie-dish and bake. When half-cooked, 
garnish with strips of candied orange peel 
and blanched almonds. And if you have 
any of the pudding left, which is doubtful, 
you will find that it makes an excellent five- 
o'clock tea cake, for it is quite as good cold 
as hot. 

Now, have I not given you a good ground 
plan, so to speak, for Lenten dinners ? It is 
the easiest thing in the world to leave out a 
part of it, or add to it, for that matter, for it 
is composed wholly of neutral tints, you might 
say, and almost any viand under the sun will 
dovetail with it, if you wish to elaborate it. 



I really don't know the first thing about 
the dietetic properties of eggs, for which 
ignorance I am truly grateful, because I have 
always noticed that once a man or a woman 



I GO A-MARKETING S5 

gets where the healthfulness or the hurtful- 
ness of any edible becomes the first consid- 
eration all real pleasure to be found in dining 
has for that man or woman lost half its 
charm. 

Neither could I guess, though I had a 
dozen chances, whether the fact that eggs 
form the backbone of so many meals during 
Lent has its foundation in history, or some 
religious rite. And I am also content to 
remain uninformed on this point. 

But I do know that at market these days 
the sign "strictly fresh eggs" is the most 
noticeable feature on every hand; and I 
know, too, that there are a good many house- 
keepers who fairly long to know of some way 
in which to improve upon the neutral flavor of 
an egg so that it may become dainty, savory or 
delicately sweet as the case may seem to require. 

To begin with the savory list : Some fine Egga Curbed 
morning when you are to have for break- ^f^Oream 
fast just an appetizing bit of broiled salted 
herring, try cooking some eggs in this way — 
Put half a pint of cream into a saucepan and 
let it boil. Stir into it five well-beaten eggs, 
seasoned with salt and pepper. Let this 
mixture curdle, then turn it out on to a hot 



56 I GO A-MARKETING 

• I 

dish and brown it quickly with a salamander ; 
and you '11 be at a loss to know whether it 's 
the herring that makes the egg taste so well^ 
or if it 's the egg that makes the herring so 
remarkably palatable. 
Egga, Epf- Another delicious way of serving eggs for 
curean Style breakfast is to have, as a beginning, say one 
dozen eggs and boil them till hard ; take off 
their shells, cut them in halves and rub the 
yolks through a fine sieve ; put an ounce of 
butter and one cupful of cream into a sauce- 
pan, season it with salt and white pepper and 
thicken with a very little floun When it is 
quite hot but not boiling stir into it half of 
the whites of the eggs, chopped, and the yolks. 
Arrange the remainder of the whites on a dish, 
pour the mixture over them, and serve piping 
hot. You see the eggs can be boiled and pre- 
pared the day before, and there 's very little 
to be done to get them ready for breakfast. 
Now, should you want to make this into a 
more savory dish, you could easily add a little 
minced ham, the juice of an onion, or some 
minced olives and a few mushrooms, and have 
by so doing a delectable luncheon dish that 
would go admirably with, say, some cold sliced 
tongue or with pickled lambs* tongues. 



I GO A-MARKETING 57 

A particularly savory dish of eggs is made Baked Egge 
by frying two small minced onions in butter 
till they are brown ; then mix with them a 
dessertspoonful of vinegar, a very little salt, 
and some pepper. Butter a dish, spread the 
onions over it, break over them half a dozen 
eggs, and put into a hot oven. When the 
eggs are cooked sufficiently, cover them with 
a layer of bread-crumbs that have been fried 
in butter, and serve. The bread-crumbs must 
be hot, of course. Try this some day at 
luncheon when you are having broiled pigs' 
feet and potato croquettes. 

And if it does n't turn out the success you Egg Toast 
hoped, the next day you might take some very "''^^ Cheeae 
thin slices of bread, trim off the crusts, lay 
on a well-buttered dish, and cover with very 
thin slices of cheese. Beat up well enough 
eggs to cover the bread, season with salt 
and a little cayenne pepper, and pour them 
over the slices. Put the dish in a moderate 
oven and bake until the eggs are set. Serve 
while very hot in the same dish. If you 
prefer, you may use in place of the sliced 
cheese some grated Parmesan cheese sprinkled 
over the bread, and sprinkle a little over the 
eggs too. 



S8 I GO A-MARKETING 

Eggain Eggs scrambled in tomato puree make a 
Tomato (jdectablc dish for luncheon, or for dinner as 
an entree. Have half a pint of rich tomato 
puree, and cook in it half-a-dozen well beaten 
eggs ; pour the whole into a deep dish, and 
serve with it some bread croutons. Some 
finely cut up chives will at times be thought 
an improvement to this dish. 
Scrambled And there are scrambled eggs with truffles 

^^7* "m^ ^^^ ^^ good enough for any time or place. 
Cook four sliced truffles in a wineglass of 
Madeira for about two minutes ; then put in 
a tablespoonful of butter, and season with 
salt and white pepper. Break eight eggs 
and without beating stir them well with a 
wooden spoon in the wine for three minutes, 
cooking quickly all the while. Serve in a 
hot dish. 
Caviare If one is fond of caviare (and who is n't 
'"*** nowadays?), an omelet with caviare is most 
tempting. Make an omelet of the desired 
number of eggs, and just before folding over 
spread it with a layer of caviare diluted with 
a little bechamel sauce. After the omelet is 
dished, garnish with parsley. 

You will find in your hunts for Spanish 
omelet recipes that they will turn up as thick 



I GO A-MARKETING 59 

as bees in a hive, after which you will let the Spanish 
different directions for this savory dish foment ^'"•'•* 
in your mind till you get what seems to be 
the best from each and turn out one that is 
your very own, and entitled to be known to 
your friends as '^ Spanish omelet h la Madame 
Featherstonaugh " — or whatever name has 
the honor to belong to you. My recipe you 
shall have till you get one of your own, how- 
ever. To begin with, have a rich tomato 
puree ; to this you add chopped pimentos or 
sweet Spanish peppers con amore, then a bit 
of fried chopped onion, a few mushrooms, 
also cooked, and diced cold cooked tongue or 
ham, preferably tongue. Take any liberties 
with it that you like, pray. Don't think you 
must follow it to the letter. I rarely do, to be 
candid with you. I have used cold chicken, 
cold duck, and also cold goose, when the larder 
has been berefr of ham or tongue ; and not 
one of my household dared to say anything 
shady about it 

Of course, every housekeeper has a chicken Omefet with 
liver omelet recipe among her belongings, p^'^^*" 
and made in the most ordinary way they are 
pretty sure to be worth the eating ; but if the 
livers are cooked in a little butter, and then 



6o I GO A-MARKETING 



a little Madeira is added to the butter, the 
omelet is far and away ahead of those made by 
ordinary recipes, as you will see by try- 
ing it. 
Jelly Omelet When it comes to an omelet for dessert, 
nothing can be better than an omelet stuffed 
with preserves or fresh fruit. If preserves are 
used, there 's a wide range from which to 
select, and any taste can be satisfied. Fill it 
with currant jelly, or apricot or grapefhiit 
marmalade, or any other fruit that you like. 
In almost any case a little grated lemon peel, 
and a handful of chopped almonds will be 
an improvement. After the omelet is dished 
it should always be sprinkled with finely 
powdered sugar. 

Strawberry You might in the way of fresh fruits 
Omelet ^^^ ^^^^^ ^^ ^j^^ strawberries that are of re- 
spectable flavor and price now. Get a box 
some day of the best-looking ones you can 
find, and sort them over. Save out about 
half of them, the fairest ones in the lot, 
cut in halves, and put them in a bowl with 
two heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar, a piece 
of orange peel, and two teaspoonfuls of rum, 
and set them in a cool place. Press the 



I GO A-MARKETING 6i 

remainder of the strawberries through a fine 
sieve, and sweeten well. Make an omelet 
of six eggs, and before folding over fill it 
with the cut-up strawberries, without any of 
the liquid. Dish the omelet, sprinkle with 
powdered sugar, and pour around it the juice 
of the strawberries, to which has been added 
the liquid from the halved strawberries. It *s 
a delicate dish, indeed, and you will find that 
it will be a favorite at any table. 

If you have a recipe for C6lestine omelets, CSfestine 
small ones, of which you are very much enam- *"* * 
ored, this paragraph will not interest you. 
But if you are at odds with the one you have, 
glance through this. Make as many small 
omelets as you think will be required, one egg 
to each, with yolk and white beaten separately. 
Put them on a hot dish, cover with a thin layer 
of peach marmalade, and on this sprinkle 
chopped candied fruits with a few chopped 
almonds, and over all spread whipped cream. 
Work at chain-lightning speed in preparing 
this after the omelets are dished, and get to 
the table in even quicker time, if you would 
know this dish in perfection. Though if 
anything happens to cause you to slacken 






> 

, 62 I GO A-MARKETING 

your pace a bit, it will be worth the having, 
for it will bear shading down a trifle from the 
top-notch. Or, make the eggs into one large 
omelet, and before folding it over fill with the 
jam and fhiits, and sprinkle the almonds and 
whipped cream over it after it is dished. 
Snow EggM Then there 's a dish called " Snow Eggs " 
that 's just as inoffensive as it sounds. You 
beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, 
and then drop them a spoonful at a time into 
boiling milk till they poach a bit. Take them 
out, thicken the milk with the yolks, adding 
sugar and any desired flavoring. Pour this 
over the poached whites, dish, and sprinkle 
with chopped macaroons before serving. 
Omelette It would n't be fair to omit any mention 
oouffl e ^f ^^ omelette soufHee in a chapter on eggs ; 
so here it shall go, though for myself I don't 
care for it. It has always seemed to me like 
a dessert to be served when a dessert was n't 
really needed or wanted, but because a dessert 
of some kind must go down to make the 
luncheon or dinner complete. Separate, then, 
the yolks and whites of five eggs. Beat the 
yolks and half a cup of sugar together for 
ten minutes. Flavor with a little rose-water. 



9 
4 



t 
f 



I GO A-MARKETING 63 

Then turn to the whites, and beat them to 
the sdffest kind of a froth. Butter a souffle 
dish, and pour the mixture into it. Bake 
for twelve minutes, and send to table. The 
guests should always be waiting for an omelette 
soufflee, mind. Never force the omelet to do 
the waiting — it is n't giving it a fair chance. 



* 



APRIL 

**Thi bist doctors in tki luwld art Doctor 
DUt, Doctor ^Ut, and Doctor MerrymanJ** 



THE very first thing to be done on 
Easter morning is to get up in time 
to see the sun dance; for, as you 
probably know, not a bit of good luck will 
be yours for the year to come if laziness, 
or anything, in fact, save cloudy skies, pre- 
vents your beholding this phenomenon. But 
it is possible that you don't know that this 
means nothing less than. to be ^cing the east 
with eagle eye and steady nerve at a pretty 
early hour. Rather rough, isn't it? How 
would it do, then, to sit up all night in order 
to be on hand to witness the fancy steps 
of the god of day ? You could do that and 
then have a good long nap, after which you 
might be refreshed by a breakfast of shad roes 
(they 're about as inexpensive now as they 
will be), bi-oiled to a turn, with a little melted 
butter and lemon juice, judiciously mixed, 
poured over them ; dainty, crisp lettuce hearts, 
salted a bit; graham bread, thinly sliced, 
and toasted to that shade known the world 



I GO A-MARKETING 65 

over "as epicurean brown;" and lastly, 
instead of coffee, a steaming, fragrant, appe- 
tizing cup of English breakfast tea. My 
word for it, you will be tempted to linger 
over this breakfast, but stern duty permits no 
such loitering. No, indeed ; you must be up 
and away, or how on earth are you going to 
make certain comparisons that shall confirm 
you in your belief that your new bonnet is 
nothing less than a dream ? Dear knows, I 
hope you won't see any headgear that will 
take the shine off your own, for then you will 
be sure to go home out of sorts, and the 
charming little dinner menu that I have com- 
piled for your use and behoof might as well 
be of corned beef and cabbage for all the 
appreciation it will get from you. 

But in case that everything does go 
smoothly, and nothing happens to nick your 
peace of mind, could anything be more de- 
lectable than a dinner which would unfold 
itself to your delighted palate in this order ? 
To begin with : Clam cocktails, made, of ctam 
course, with the little-neck variety; they ^o«^«"« 
should be put in half-dozen lots into small 
glasses, and seasoned with lemon juice, tabasco, 
salt, and the tiniest suspicion of onion juice — 

5 



66 I GO A-MARKETING 

just enough, you understand, to cause one to 
wonder if that delightful flavor is really onion. 

And then to follow up the good impression 
left by the clam cocktails, have a soup of con- 
somme of perfect flavor and delicacy — the 
sort, you know, that does n*t jar with what 
has gone before or is to come. 

The "to come" in this case might be, 
say, of trout, broiled to a nicety and served 
with tartar sauce. But if for financial reasons 
you object to the trout, why, then you may get 
good salmon from the West, or pompano, and 
bluefish of fairly good flavor. But whatever 
fish you decide upon, have it broiled, so that 
you may serve it with some delicious hothouse 
cucumbers. Quite a little fall in the price of 
cucumbers you will see within the next two 
or three weeks. 
Lamb Steak And the price of spring lamb has dropped 
perceptibly too by this time. Now, please, 
whichever part of the lamb you select, don't 
have it roasted. Have it sliced for steaks, and 
broiled to the stage most in favor in your 
family circle, then salted well, but buttered 
sparingly, as you must — there is no use in 
trying to dodge the issue — serve a Bearnaise 
sauce with lamb steak. Have lobster salad 



I GO A-MARKETING 67 



without the lobster, omit the crabs from dev- 
illed crabs, if it pleases you, but never under 
any circumstances serve a lamb steak without 
a Bearnaise sauce. It would be barbarism — 
nothing short of it ! And to make the sauce ? Bkarnalm 
Well, put into a saucepan a gill of vinegar and ^^ 
water, equal parts, half a teaspoonful of minced 
onion, and a few tarragon leaves. Let this cook, 
tightly covered, till reduced one-half; then 
take it off the fire, and when cold mix with it 
the well-beaten yolks of four eggs; season 
with salt and mignonette, and return to the 
fire ; add slowly to it three ounces of melted 
butter, stirring continually till it thickens to 
the consistency of mayonnaise. Then strain 
it through a fine sieve, and add to it chopped 
tarragon, a teaspoonful, and the same quantity 
of chopped parsley. 

And there 's just one way to cook potatoes Potato9B 
so that they seem quite good enough to ac- *>"jP^«« 
company a lamb steak, and that way is called 
potatoes soufHees. The potatoes should be 
trimmed to ovals two and a quarter inches 
long by one and a quarter wide, and then 
sliced lengthwise, having the slices half an 
inch in thickness. When they are sliced, 
put them into ice-water to remain twenty-five 



68 I GO A-MARKETING 

minutes. Then have ready two pans of fiying 
fat, one just hot and the other piping hot 
Into the former put the potatoes, in a frying- 
basket, and let them cook without browning 
till tender; take them out, place on a 
sieve to cool and dry somewhat, and then 
plunge them into the pan containing the 
piping hot fat ; stir them about, and they will 
begin to souffler; then they must be taken 
out, salted and served. 

Now, if anything happens to prevent this 
course from turning out the howling success 
that I predict for it, I want you to go to my 
favorite dining place the next time you are in 
New York and order " the same." You will 
know then what these two dishes are in 
perfection. 

It may be that a salad of new beets would 
be quite the thing on this occasion ; if so, you 
will have no trouble in finding them in good 
condition, and as sweet as a new beet should be. 

Here endeth my part of the lesson. 

Set your own pace for a dessert. 



Although I am prepared to sit up nights 
to sympathize with any one who is really de- 
serving of having me share that emotion with 



I GO A-MARKETING 69 



her^ I don't have a particle of desire to weep 
with the woman who weeps because visitors 
have dropped in on her suddenly and caught 
her with her cupboard bare. In these days 
of canned things the woman whose larder 
does n't boast as a continuous performance at 
least half a dozen varieties was never meant 
for a housekeeper. 

For my part, I should think I was remiss 
in the duties of a housekeeper if I did not 
have half a dozen varieties of canned soup 
alone from which to select in time of need. 

Start, then, we will say, an impromptu lunch Sardine 
with a soup canned by any one of the sixteen ^ 
firms, more or less, that so prepare them. Of 
course, there will be sardines — the stand-by of 
all housekeepers ; but you will have sardine 
toast — a rarity with almost every one. Wipe 
the skin oiF the sardines with a dry cloth. The 
toasted bread is free from all crust, mind, and 
it is spread with butter mixed with lemon 
juice and chopped parsley. The sardines are 
laid on it, and the whole arrangement set in 
the oven to heat. 

Just as tempting a bouchee is an anchovy Anohovy 
toast Chop the anchovies, and add to them ^^««* 
bits of parsley, a suspicion of onion juice, a 



70 I GO A-MARKETING 

few drops of lemon juice, and some paprika. 
Spread this on toast which has been buttered, 
and heat quickly in the oven. 
Tunny^i$h Then, there 's tunny-fish always to be 
depended upon to furnish an impromptu 
dish that seems like one planned long before. 
Drain it from the oil in which it is preserved. 
Lay it on a dish, sprinkle with lemon juice, 
chopped parsley, and capers ; and keep your 
eyes open for the admiring glances your guests 
will be trying to hide from you when they 
first taste of it. 

Then smoked, boneless herring, you know, 
are good almost any way; but broiled till 
they curl up a bit over a hot fire, and 
sent to table flanked by olives, water crackers, 
and a bottle or two of lager beer, they are 
leaders. 

Of course, with two or three kinds of 
devilled meats in the house the making of 
sandwiches, even at short notice, is just a pas- 
time ; and with all the crackers now to be had 
it would be foolish to waste tears over the ab- 
sence of bread. In fiict, the world, the mar- 
ket, and the grocery store are filled to the 
brim with substitutes nowadays — substitutes 
that make it easy to forget originals. 



I GO A-MARKETING 71 

Although 'tis by signs of promises soon to 
be richly fulfilled that a market interests me 
chiefly at this season^ there is no lack even 
to-day of a good supply of edibles, both sub- 
stantial and delicate, land do I go a-marketing 
determined to buy everything on an economi- 
cal basis I find Dame Nature and the market- 
man in league to help me furnish forth my 
table daintily and inexpensively. Or, if in a 
reckless mood of extravagance I betake my- 
self to the vendor of viands, I find him and 
the dear old dame quite as helpful in carry- 
ing out my plans. 

Naturally, in trips to market, my methodi- 
cal mind leads me to inquire first what is suit- 
able for breakfast ; what is best calculated to 
minister to an appetite capricious in the fickle 
springtime. Numerous answers are forth- 
coming to my inquiry, the first of which says 
shad roes made into delicious croquettes with 
a garnishing of lettuce hearts. Very good, I 
say, very appropriate, but what else is there ? 
— every one does n't care for that dish. And 
then, taking the matter into my own hands, 
as the marketman is perfectly willing that I 
should, I peer around to see what is to be 
had, and make notes mentally for future use. 



72 I GO A-MARKETING 

There are mackerel of finest flavor, which, if 
broiled to a turn and having as an accompani- 
ment crisp, fresh radishes, are fit to put before 
a king. Another breakfast dish, which is also 
quite good enough for any royal person, is of 
kidneys broiled on skewers with alternate 
slices of bacon. A bit of parsley serves not 
only to decorate this last dish, but forms a 
piquant relish for it, and relishes for breakfast 
dishes are more of a necessity now than at 
any other season. The orange juice which 
has proved so potent an appetizer when the 
mercury ranges near to zero, fails to supply 
the needed zest for a springtime morning meal, 
and we must have recourse to a fresh green 
v^etable, in addition. 

From breakfast fare to luncheon dishes I 
turn my attention logically, and learn that 
sweetbreads are particularly fine just now in 
whatever way they are served, but in my 
opinion they are never quite so good as when 
simmered gently in butter and served with 
cream sauce, to which has been added a few 
fresh mushrooms. 

Spring chickens, tender and toothsome if 
broiled as they should be, are worthy of an 
honored place at any luncheon, and the mar- 



I GO A-MARKETING 73 

ketman tells me those lately received are of 
excellent quality. 

That dainty of dainties, in the estimation 
of many people, frogs' legs, if broiled or served 
with a cream sauce, appeals to the most fas- 
tidious palate. And just now they are not 
only plentiful and in fine condition, but are 
quite inexpensive. 

A dish which we cannot always obtain, and 
which is especially suitable for a midday meal, 
is of the Taunton River alewives smoked; 
they should be broiled, and there should be 
served with them, without fail, a potato salad 
made from the Bermuda potatoes, which are 
exceptionally desirable at this season. 

In the ordering of a dinner I have always 
maintained that though it consists of only 
two courses, there is an opportunity for the 
exercise of great discretion. A knowledge of 
the eternal fitness of things is essential above 
all else in order to arrange a dinner at 
which the courses shall not be at war with 
each other. A certain famous lawyer re- 
marked in my hearing not long ago that " he 
knew women who could play whist and play 
it as it should be, and he knew women who 
could order a dinner fit for the gods, but 



74 I GO A-MARKETING 

never had he known and never did he expect 
to know, a woman who could do both." Per- 
haps he was right, but I believe there are 
women in plenty who are quite capable of 
doing both to perfection. 

At this season, with oysters almost out of 
the running, little-neck clams may be depended 
upon to whet the appetite, while the soup 
which follows must be at once delicate and 
yet so rich that the first spoonful enchants. 
If the next course is to be of bluefish, or of 
salmon, or of striped bass, all of which are in 
first-class condition in this month, potatoes 
should be served in any desired shape if the 
fish is to be boiled or braised ; should it be 
broiled or fried, then by all means let its 
accompaniment be cucumbers, which are plen- 
tiful, and are sold at a comparatively low 
figure, by now. 

If you follow my advice you will avoid the 
heavy, clumsy, and unimaginative joint. De- 
cide rather upon ducklings to be roasted or 
broiled, or upon squabs; or, if these are a 
thought too expensive, choose fowl, which 
should be good and plentiful. Have it par- 
boiled and then fried Maryland style, or 



I GO A-MARKETING 75 

fricasseed, or boil it till quite tender and serve 
with a caper sauce. 

As for vegetables, just now, and for several 
weeks to come, nothing can be better than 
asparagus, which improves, and is less expen- 
sive every day. Frequently I tire of it served 
on toast, in which case, after boiling it, I 
moisten it with melted butter, sprinkle grated 
Parmesan over the top and brown it in the 
oven. Or, if I wish to serve it as a salad, I 
have it ice-cold and pour over it a dressing 
made of oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, with a 
suspicion of French mustard added. 

For salads, tomatoes, perhaps, have first 
choice, for they are really very fine, coming 
in from the hothouses fresh every day. Water- 
cress is at its best estate, and whether it be 
served as a salad or taken simply with a grain 
of salt, it is a delicacy worthy of honor. 

It is hardly possible to serve fruit out of 
place at dinner; before the soup it is appe- 
tizing, as a compote for an entree it is highly 
delectable, while at dessert its presence is 
dme-honored, and I would that there were 
more varieties in market just now. However, 
the strawberries and pineapples due are quite 



76 I GO A-MARKETING 

sufficient to console us for the absence of 
other fruits. 

With that most delicious v^etable aspara- 
gus as good and as plenty as it is bound to 
be for two months or so longer, it is but a 
waste of time to search for any other vegetable 
to take its place. The truth is, it hasn't a 
rival, and it never had one — even in Pliny's 
day, when it grew wild. But gardeners in those 
days cultivated it just as they do now, and it 
was no uncommon thing for them to produce 
stalks of which it took but three to weigh a 
pound. If any gardeners do raise such mam- 
moth specimens in these days they keep very 
quiet about it. But perhaps they don't taste any 
better than smaller ones. Why should they? 
It will do to have asparagus boiled, just 
plainly boiled, two out of every three times 
that you have it. But the third times are 
those of which I would talk. 
A$paragu8 Suppose you cut off the tips into inch 
Tips in lengths, and boil very slowly in salted water 
till tender. Then drain and let get perfectly 
cold, after which you brown them a bit in 
butter in a fiying pan. At the first threat to 
become brown cover the asparagus with cream^ 
heat well and serve on toasted bread. 



I GO A-MARKETING 77 

If this does n*t satisfy you for a third try Aaparagua 
another way. Cut the asparagus up just the ^'^J^^^'^^ 
same and boil with it a few new green peas 
and some shredded lettuce. Season with pep- 
per and salt, and flavor with a few drops of 
onion juice. Add an ounce or two of melted 
butter to them after draining off the water in 
which they were boiled, pour over them half 
a pint of white sauce thickened, and then go 
ahead with the serving on toast. 

Then you can boil the asparagus tips and Baked 
heap them mound shape in a baking dish, ^^paragua 
pour through them a HoUandaise or a Bear- 
naise sauce, cover the top with grated Par- 
mesan cheese and brown in a hot oven. 

But for asparagus salad be sure that after Aaparagua 
the tips are taken from the boiling water they ^^^ 
are plunged into ice water. Then cover, when 
serving, with a French dressing in which has 
been stirred a little French mustard. 

Or take some asparagus tips boiled and Aaparagua 
cooled and serve them on shaved ice with a ^ 

dressing of salt, lemon juice, and horse-radish, or 
tabasco, and with a little bit of your most charm- 
ing persiflage you will be able to persuade some 
of your followers that you have produced an 
excellent substitute for little-neck dams. 



MAY 

" SoMi said « Jokn^ print ity^ othirs said^ « Not so,* 
Soms said < // might do good^ othirs said < iVa.* ** 



I 



T 'S the month when, by a logical amount 
of reasoning, the housekeeper is per- 
suaded that she can easily treat her 
family to roasted veal, at least once a week, 
without any member of it entering a com- 
plaint. She tries it. The second time serv- 
ing it threatens to go a-begging, and the third 
time there is so much left over that it can't 
be worked up in seven days — when, by her 
reckoning, another knuckle is due. People 
do tire of veal in short order, even those who 
have a liking for it, for some reason or other. 
I am inclined to think that a good many times 
the " tired feeling " sets in because of the way 
it is served — not enough is done to prepare 
the palate for it 

Veal, then, more than any other roast, needs 

to have the way prepared for it, very gingerly 

OiiveawHh &nd very delicately. Let us discuss a way 

Cauiare fo^ doing this. First, have pitted olives that 

you have filled with caviare. Rest these olives 



I GO A-MARKETING 79 

on little rounds of toast that have been spread 
with caviare, and sprinkled with lemon juice. 

Now, for a soup. Soak over night a pint of Pur^e of 
green dried peas. Drain, and cook in plenty ^^^^^ 
of fresh water till perfectly tender. Then press 
through a sieve. Have cooked, at the same 
time, a peck of spinach, and press through a 
sieve also. Then put the two purees to- 
gether, season with salt and pepper ; heat well, 
adding half a pint of milk. Just before 
taking up, pour in a pint of cream, and serve 
with tiny squares of fried bread in the tureen. 
Ever heard of this before? It's a soup that 
is rich and delicate, but not so hearty that it 
does more than whet the appetite for what is 
to follow. 

Shall we say salmon comes next? It's a Ufayonnaiae 
thought high as yet, perhaps, but you only f^g^^^''^' 
need a little of it — a pound for four, where 
a roast is to follow. But, to tell the truth, 
my insisting on your having it comes almost 
wholly from a desire I have to tell you of a 
new sauce for boiled or broiled salmon. It is 
nothing more than mayonnaise, a half pint, 
with a heaping tablespoonful of horse-radish 
stirred through it. Oh, you will like it fast 



8o I GO A-MARKETING 

enough! And you will like it with cold 
salmon, just as welL 

By the time the fish is a thing of the past, 

you will all be ready for the roasted veaL 

Ducheaae On this, of course, you have had tied thin 

Sauce gii^^gg Qf g^^ pork before it is roasted. With 

it, will you have a duchesse sauce ? I think 
you will. For this you have a pint of good 
stock, thickened a bit with butter braided with 
flour. After it is heated, there is added to it 
a wineglass of any white wine. 
Onion Sauoe Or, if I have made a mistake, and you will 
have none of it, do let me suggest an onion 
sauce. Peel and chop three onions, and let 
simmer in plenty of butter, closely cov- 
ered, for an hour. Let them brown, a trifle, 
at the last, and add a tablespoonful of flour 
with pepper and salt. Then add to them half 
a pint each of white stock and cream. Pour 
this into the pan in which the veal was roasted, 
after it is taken out, set the pan on top of the 
range and let boil gently for five minutes. 
It 's an improved sauce Soubise, you may say, 
if any of your guests are led to ask the name 
of it. But, if they ask for directions for mak- 
ing it, don't give them up. Advise, instead. 



I GO A-MARKETING 8i 



buying this book to learn, as you did, how to 
concoct such a bit of deliciousness. 

Really, I would n't have more than one vege- 
table with the veal, and that asparagus, as 
it's the season for it. Or, have something 
else, if you prefer, and have an asparagus 
salad. 

For the dessert, why not a rhubarb sher- Rhubarb 
bet ? Cut up two pounds of it, and boil ^''^''^^ 
with a few drops of water and plenty of sugar, 
the rind of a lemon, and a little liquid carmine 
to color it prettily. Let this get cool ; strain 
through a sieve, and add to it a pint of claret 
and two tablespoonfuls'of rum. Freeze, and 
have ready to decorate it, when serving, some 
strips of candied ginger. You will find it all 
that you have reason to think it should be, 
coming from this source. 

But, if you prefer an apricot charlotte, it Apricot 
shall be my pleasure to tell you how to make ^^oriotte 
one. Line the same charlotte mould you 
always use with sponge drops, or fingers, care* 
fully trimmed to fit. In fact, you want to 
give them a regular tailor-made fit. Then fill 
with a pint of preserved apricots, which have 
been stewed till tender enough to rub through 
a sieve. Stir into it an ounce of gelatine, dis- 

6 



82 I GO A~MARKETINO 

solved in a litde water. Let it get perfectly 
cool, and then whip into it a pint of already 
whipped cream. Turn into the mould and 
set away to harden. And you have the most 
ungrateful family in the neighborhood if they 
don't count this dinner as a red-letter event 
in their lives. 



Think you that upon one of these morn- 
ings, when the mercury shows a sullen deter- 
mination to do nothing but climb, climb, climb, 
you can prepare a more tempting dish for 
breakfast than one of shrimps, which have 
been boiled in fresh water, then salted and 
cooled, and finally sent to table upon chopped 
ice ? You will find them at the market for 
the rest of this month, at least, in excellent 
condition, and at a reasonable price. And 
should you elect to serve them according to 
the foregoing suggestion, place near them on 
the table a dish of crisp, fresh watercress, 
lightly piled, ministering thereby to the eye's 
pleasure as well as to the appetite's desire. 

But if, some fine morning, a breath of win- 
ter comes o'er the land, via an east wind, then 
you will, perhaps, crave food served hot, in 



I GO A-MARKETING 83 

which case have veal cutlets (veal is in fine BroiM Veai 

shape now); dip them in melted butter and ^*'*'*** 

then broil over the coals ; you will find this 

an infinitely better way of cooking them than 

by frying, which so many housekeepers con* 

sider the standard method. Or, if you do 

not care for veal, try thin slices of bacon, 

broiled, and served on toasted graham bread. 

As a fruit, for leading up to either of these 

dishes, I think you will prefer pineapples, for 

they are of delicious quality now, and sold at 

a price which also recommends them to your 

notice. Quite as appetizing, however, you 

might find cherries, but, though they are of 

hkly good flavor, they are a bit expensive, as 

they have a right to be, coming from such a 

distance. 

It is with intent and purpose that I do not 
suggest that everlasting Americanism, beef- 
steak for breakfast ; to my mind, it seems far 
more suitable for the luncheon table, and just 
now, with mushrooms so plenty, and as inex- 
pensive as they ever are, a well-broiled, tender, 
juicy sirloin steak, with a mushroom sauce, 
makes a dish fit for the gods, and yet not a whit 
too good for human nature's daily food. Just 
as good, in its way, for luncheon, is a herring 



84 I GO A-MARKETING 

Herring salad, made of smoked herring. Omit the 
^ use of caviare, which many cook-books recom- 
mend, for you want nothing that will en- 
croach upon the flavor of the herring, but 
rather something which will act as its com- 
plement. For this purpose use one-third cold 
sliced potatoes to two-thirds herring, a plen- 
tiful sprinkling of capers, and the ordinary 
oil and vinegar dressing, with the salt put in 
by a miserly hand. Another salad, suitable for 
luncheon, especially if cold tongue is served, 
is made of the little Bermuda onions, which 
are abundant now; they should be minced 
finely and served ice-cold to win your highest 
admiration. 
Bake<i And now, just one more dish before 
leaving the luncheon table. Have you ever 
prepared a baked-chicken hash? If not, 
allow me to suggest that you chop quite finely 
the cold meat of chicken or fowl, season it 
with salt and white pepper, moisten it with 
cream or with milk and butter, scatter bread- 
crumbs over the top and brown in the oven, 
and behold, you have one of the homeliest 
dishes in the annals of housekeepers glorified 
to suit the palate of a veritable epicure. 
Whenever, at this season of the year, I go 



Oblchen Haah 



I GO A-MARKETING 85 

to market in search of fish for the dinner-table, 
it is only by the exercise of great will power 
that I am able to refrain from buying soft-shell 
crabs. They are so delicious, whether broiled 
or fried, that it seems positively wicked they 
should be so expensive. Still, the fish dealer 
assures me that almost any day the price 
may " break " and, other fish being plentiful, 
we can afford to wait patiently for the " drop." 
Delicious trout, of either the lake or brook 
variety, are abundant, and in whatever way 
they are served are one of the pleasures of the 
present day. 

Although the month of roses is generally 
known as the month of salmon, it is in first- 
class condition now, and obtainable at a fairly 
low figure. No other fish is so capable of re- 
serving ; little scraps left may be warmed in 
cream and served on toast for breakfast, made 
into a salad for luncheon, or shaped into cro- 
quettes for dinner the following day. 

In the vernacular of the marketman, '^spring 
lamb is getting down on to the earth." Which, 
being interpreted for ears polite, means that 
the price is getting lower each week, but that 
the flavor remains unsurpassed ; in fact " none 
but itself can be its parallel." Bits of lamb 



86 I GO A-MARKETING 

left from dinner may be prepared in the way 
suggested for baked-chicken hash^ and will, I 
am sure, merit your favor. 

When lamb is suggested, there follows, as 
a natural sequence, the thought of green peas ; 
and if the peas in market to-day were only as 
good as they look, the thought would be a 
happy one. As matters stand, however, for 
those who know not the delight of eating peas 
in less than three hours from the time they 
are gathered from the vines, the representa- 
tives of this vegetable to be had now will pass 
muster. For myself, I prefer either cauli- 
flower or egg plant, both of them plenty and 
in good condition now. The former if boiled 
and served with a white sauce, or baked with 
cheese is especially gratifying when served 
with a roast of lamb, while the egg-plant will 
be quite as much of a success if broiled, or 
stuffed and baked. 

Of course asparagus has attained perfection, 
and is so in evidence on every hand that it is 
not necessary to mention it here. However, 
there are many persons of the belief that it is 
impossible to have too much of a good thing, 
and most decidedly asparagus is entitled to 
come under that head. 



I GO A-MARKETING 87 

^ Shall I tell you of three little dinners and 
how to make them grow? Give ear, then, 
and you may hear. The first shall have a 
foundation of tomato soup. Now please 
don't make a wry face and begin to say un- 
kind things about tomato soup having a past 
until you have heard me through ; for I want 
to tell you of an economical and really deli- 
cious way of making this soup that is not 
known to every one. Just at this season 
almost all housekeepers will be sure to have 
on hand two or three kinds of cooked vege- 
tables, little scraps of each I mean. Now, 
suppose the list to comprise three new pota- Sauory 
toes, boiled, half a cupful of string beans and ^^'"f'^ ^<>"P 
about the same quantity of green peas ; to 
these, or to any others which you may prefer 
to use, should be added two raw onions finely 
minced and a handful of chopped parsley. 
Put them into a saucepan with two ounces of 
butter, a sprinkling of pepper and salt, and, 
after they have simmered for ten minutes, add 
a can of tomatoes. Season then with a tea- 
spoonful of whole allspice, a tablespoonful of 
sugar, and more pepper and salt if need be, 
and cook slowly for half an hour. At the 
end of that time strain through a fine hair 



88 I GO A-MARKETING 



sieve, put back on the stove and thicken 
with a scant teaspoonfUl of cornstarch mixed 
with a teaspoonful of melted butter. Have 
little sippets of fried bread in the soup tureen, 
pour the soup over them and serve. And 
there you have a soup possessed of all the 
flavors that make a tomato soup worth the eat- 
ing, while it has none of the heaviness of 
soup made with a rich stock. 

And the next dish for dinner No. i shall 
be of dainty little lamb chops broiled to a 
turn. Have in the centre of the platter a 
mound of mashed potato, lean the chops 
against it, and serve in this way. 

With the chops serve string beans. Boll 
them till tender in salted water, drain them 
and put into a saucepan with two ounces 
of butter and two tablespoonfiils of cream to a 
quart of beans. Cook them for three minutes 
and send to the table very hot 
Aaparagua It would be a sin and a shame to arrange a 
dinner at this time of year without providing 
for the serving of asparagus. Even though 
the dinner is to consist of one course only, 
that course should be of asparagus. But in 
the dinner which we are now planning it is to 
make its appearance at the third course as a 



Salad 



I GO A-MARKETING 89 

salad. It must be boiled till quite tender, 
then chilled for three or four hours on the ice, 
cut into inch lengths, and served with a dress- 
ing of the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs 
beaten up with three tablespoonfuls of oil, two 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar, a saltspoonful of 
salt and the same quantity of French mustard. 

The last course shall include strawberries 
served in some way. Have them plain, with 
sugar and cream, and serve with them narrow 
strips of delicate puff paste; or make little 
tartlets, and when they are done lift the cov- 
ers and put a teaspoonftil of whipped cream 
into each. 

And the cost of dinner No, i ? Well, at 
the price of ** comestible wares " at this season, 
this dinner should not cost over one dollar for 
four persons. And really it will not require 
very close figuring to bring it within that sum. 

But if that seems too small an amount to 
expend for a dinner intended to give pleasure 
to four persons, there will be no trouble in 
planning one to cost rather more. And for Bisque of 
the first course let us have a bisque of clams. ^f<^^ 
Get a quart of clams and a small piece of veal, 
about a pound of it Cook the veal in a little 
more than a pint of water and the liquor 



t 



I 

90 I GO A-MARKETING 



r 

I 
i 
I 



drained from the dams. Season with one 

onion, a sprig of parsley, a bay leaf, salt, and 

white pepper. Cook very slowly for one 

• hour, then strain and again place it in 

the kettle; rub a couple of tablespoonfuls 

/ of butter with an equal amount of flour and 

^ add to the soup when boiling. Chop up 

the clams very fine, and put them into the 
soup ; let it boil for five minutes and then add 
half a pint of cream. Heat thoroughly, but 
don't let it boil after adding the cream, and 
serve. And after you have partaken of this 
I '11 warrant you will be ready to declare 
that Grimod de la Reyniere had this especial 
kind of potage in mind when he said : '' Soup 
I is not only the commencement of a feast, but 

gives an idea of what is to follow." 

And its close follower in this instance 
should be some delicious little ducklings 
roasted. With the ducklings have new pota- 
toes, from Bermuda or from the South, 
plainly boiled. And have, too, some aspara- 
AsparaguB gus — asparagus tops with cheese. Cut the 
Tops with tender part of the asparagus into inch lengths 
and cook in salted water till feirly tender; 
then drain and toss it about over the fire in 
a frying-pan with a little butter. Dress it on 



I GO A-MARKETING 91 

a vegetable dish, spread the surface smoothly 
with butter into which has been kneaded an 
equal quantity of grated Parmesan cheese and 
just a suspicion of cayenne pepper. Brown 
as quickly as you can in a piping hot oven, 
and serve. 

And now for the salad. Does one of let- LMuee 
tuce strike you fevorably ? If so, prepare it ?^^^"''** 
with a French dressing, as you always do, but 
after it is dressed sprinkle over it all some 
finely chopped chives. My word for it, 
you '11 find this a great improvement over the 
ordinary lettuce salad. 

A tempting dessert with which to wind up Frozen 
this dinner would be frozen strawberries with Strawbem'ea 
whipped cream. Let me tell you how to pre- 
pare the dish, and see what you think about 
it. Make a syrup of a third of a pint of sugar 
and a pint of water. Into the syrup put a 
quart of fine ripe strawberries and let boil 
for five minutes. Then freeze the mixture. 
Whip half a pint of cream, work it into the 
strawberries, and serve in as dainty a fashion 
as possible. 

And the amount of money required to fur- 
nish forth a table with dinner No. 2 ? Not a 
cent over two dollars for four persons. 



92 I GO A-MARKETING 

But, for fear that to many that may seem 
too small an amount for just the kind of 
dinner they want to give, I will try again. 
Since we have decided that asparagus must 
appear in some form at every dinner while its 
season lasts, we will start dinner No. 3 with 
Asparagus asparagus soup. This is made by cooking the 
^^^^ tender parts of the asparagus in salted water 
for a few minutes. Before they get quite ten- 
der drain till dry and cold. If there are two 
bunches of asparagus put them into a saucepan 
with four ounces of butter, two finely chopped 
onions, a lump of sugar, and a little white 
pepper. Moisten with a pint of white broth 
and let cook for ten minutes. Then rub 
through a sieve, heat again and serve. 

After the soup, crabs — soft-shell crabs 
dipped in beaten egg and crumbs and fried. 
Serve nothing but tartar sauce with them. 
Then have a couple of cunning little spring 
Qreen Peaa chickens broiled. Have new potatoes chopped 
with Mint ^^^ baked in cream served with the chickens, 
and have also new green peas. Try boiling 
with them a small bunch of mint and a small 
onion, both of which are to be removed 
before the peas are served. You will find 
that the peas have acquired a delightful flavor 



I GO A-MARKETING 93 

from their contact with the other vegetables. 
Of course salt and pepper and butter are to 
be added as when they are cooked in the ordi- 
nary way. 

For a salad have some hothouse tomatoes 
peeled and sliced ; lay them on a flat dish, and 
on each slice heap a little chopped lettuce 
mixed with mayonndse. 

Let us borrow the dessert from dinner 
No. 2 to put the finishing touch to this last 
dinner. I don't know a better one, but if you 
do there *s nothing to prevent your using it. 

And, do your best, if you are to serve 
dinner No. 3 for four persons you cannot 
make it cost over three dollars. 

Are you satisfied, now, that I know how to 
make diVers grow ? 



JUNE 

**For hir vuom breakfast ski* II project a sckimif 
Nor takikirUa nviihout a ttratagemJ*^ 




LAMS are good and plentiful now/' 
Clams West  g^id the fish dealer one day, and as 

Island 9tyl9 X. A j • l r r • j i 

^^"^ I was in the frame of mind to take 
him at his word I hastily ran over in my 
mind the various ways in which this delecta- 
ble fish may be prepared, the while I ordered 
from him the quantity I thought I could use. 
It does n't take very long to sum up the gastro- 
nomical possibilities of the clam that are cher- 
ished in the minds of most housekeepers, you 
will admit. But, with time and opportunity 
favoring, there is room for expansion of ideas 
with regard to clams. For instance, this is 
one way to expand : Poach, say, a pint of them 
in their own liquor, then drain off the liquor, 
adding to the clams milk thickened with egg 
yolks and seasoned with pepper and salt; 
forget economy and put in the butter you 
know it requires to make the flavor perfect, 
and on top of all have some tiny rice cro- 
quettes. You can't know till you try it just 
what this dish may reveal served at breakfast 



I GO A-MARKETING .95 



But I will not spoil the story by telling you in 
advance. If> however, it 's for luncheon that 
you would be thinking of having them cooked 
in this way 3 add the juice of an onion to 
them. 

If you trust to me so &t as to adopt the fore- Clam and 
going way of cooking clams you certainly will 'f^^f^'^'" 
try this next way of preparing them at the 
slightest provocation. Have as many as you 
like and chop them. Add to them an equal 
quantity of chopped boiled lobster. Sprinkle 
in some parsley, also chopped, and butter to 
the amount above recommended. Season 
with white pepper and salt, and with the mix* 
ture fill some of the deepest clam shells, 
sprinkle bread crumbs over the top and brown 
in a hot oven. This may be counted on at 
any time for a luncheon dish when you are 
planning to go some persons who have enter- 
tained you at least one better. 

Before I forget it I am going to tell you of Stujfed 
a dish that to my sorrow is rather uncommon, ^^^^ . 
even among those who think they dme well. 
It 's nothing less than a stuffed, baked cucum- 
ber — that is, those are the essentials of the 
dish. The potentials are to be classified by 
you after you have partaken of it Cut the 



9S I GO A-MARKETING 

cucumbers in two lengthwise without peeling 
them, scoop out all the seeds, and fill to heap- 
ing each half with a highly seasoned mixture 
of bread crumbs ; moisten with melted butter 
and brown in a hot oven. Vary this stuffing 
at your own sweet will — add a few chopped 
olives or some chopped pimientos — Spanish 
sweet peppers you know — but have bread 
crumbs enough to insure the dish getting 
browned in shape. 
Fried I^ the idea of cooking cucumbers assimi- 
Cuoumbera lates itself harmoniously with your ideas of 
gastronomy you may not hesitate to try a 
dish of fried cucumbers. And don't let any 
one infect your mind with the idea that they are 
especially indigestible. They 're not. Peel 
them first, then slice them into quarter-inch 
slices, say, then dip in beaten egg, then in 
crumbs, and then fry to a delicate brown in a 
little butter. Try either way of cooking the 
cucumbers with a tender spring chicken 
broiled. For if you are not deprived of your 
rights nowadays you should be finding '^ broil- 
ers " in good condition and not too high in 
price. You see of game there is little to be 
said in the Eastern markets during this 
month ; so if you are trying to do the hand- 



I GO A-MARKETING 97 

some thing in the bird line you 've not much 
of a list from which to make a selection. To 
be sure you have a right to inquire at market 
for brant just now, come to think of it You 
will be apt to find them, and in good condi- 
tion, too. Roasted shall we say? With 
them new potatoes of course. Don't tell me 
you can't afford them, I know better. And 
you can also afford to secure some new sum- 
mer squash to go with the roasted brant 
Don't ask me where it comes from. I only 
know that in every up-to-date market it is on 
sale. So are young, sweet little carrots that 
appeal to you for a white cream sauce like 
that you serve with cauliflower. 

By now you may reasonably be ordering 
blackberries if you are longing for a change. 
But my advice is to stick to the strawberry 
while it will stick to you. By the way, if you 
are to " do up " strawberries, get the first 
** natives " that come to town. Get them, you 
know, before they are soft from overripeness, 
and next winter when set on your table just 
as they are, or with the syrup of them jellied 
with a bit of gelatine, you will see the wisdom 
of being forehanded with them. 

7 



98 I GO A-MARKETING 

'^ Give us breakfasts ; tell us housekeepers 
what we can put before our families for the 
first meal of the day in summer that shall 
drive away the morning sulks." 

Thus did a matron young neither in years 
nor in experience beseech me as I set out for 
market one day. And while I was parleying 
with the marketman as to the ways and means 
and the whys and wherefores of things edible 
that plaintive *' Give us breakfasts " rang so 
insistently in my ears that I could pay no 
attention to viands essentially suitable for 
later meals, but fell to thinking and planning 
breakfasts which should be antidotes — anti- 
dotes for that ill which more than any other 
human ailment is strengthened by recognition, 
the " morning sulks." 

And my first definite plan took shape in 
this wise : Cherries, for this is the month par 
excellence for that delicious fruit, cherries with 
some green leaves piled upon cracked ice in 
such a manner that the sight of them re- 
freshes, while to taste of them leads one to 
think "Airs well with the worid." And 
then, to follow, there must be croquettes of 
fish ; all kinds are so abundant now that it is 
only a case of paying one*s money and taking 



I GO A-MARKETING 99 

one's choice* But whatever fish is chosen^ 
the croquettes should be smaller than those 
for use at luncheon or dinner, for the eye is 
repelled at breakfast-time by sight of large 
portions. With croquettes the daintiest and 
lightest parsley omelette imaginable should be 
served, it seems to me, and there you have a 
simple breakfast, easy of accomplishment, but 
one sure to be appreciated by King Sulks 
himself. 

My second plan, when it assumes tangible 
shape, shall be like this: Watermelons, not 
cut up into ungainly chunks with juice and 
seeds playing at hide-and-seek in one's plate, 
but with the pretty pink portion cut into two- laed 
inch cubes, say, with all the seeds removed, ^otemeion 
and sent to table after being well cooled, fan- 
cifully piled on shaven ice. If you don't 
mind a little fuss and bother, you may after it 
is cut up sprinkle the melon well with pow- 
dered sugar, put it into the freezer and frappe 
but not freeze it, and then send it to table. 
To the palates of many of this day and gen- 
eration watermelon well chilled comes as a 
boon, for the best of men now and then are 
afflicted with a thirst these warm mornings 
which nothing save ice-water seems to quench^ 



loo I GO A-MARKETING 

but the physicians and moralists have held 
forth at such length on the subject that one 
feels like a guilty thing upon taking a drink 
of cold water before breaking fast. Now you 
are going to ask what will be quite good 
enough to follow watermelon, and for answer 
FriedCMoken I shall recommend chicken, or fowl, boiled the 
with Cream previous day, and cut into neat pieces, then 
browned well in butter, with hot cream poured 
over it just before it is sent to the table. If 
you want a delightful adjunct for the chicken, 
let it be cold asparagus, with lemon juice and 
. salt sprinkled over it. If you have never 
partaken of cold asparagus at breakfast, there 
is a new pleasure in store for you, for good as 
this vegetable is hot at dinner or luncheon, it 
seems especially apt when served cold in the 
morning. 

Quite as attractive, and simpler in prepara- 
tion, perhaps, you will find my third recipe 
for an antidote, it goes something like this : 
To beg^n with, blackberries, growing better 
and more abundant every day ; to follow the 
blackberries smoked beef tossed in hot cream 
which has been seasoned with cayenne pepper, 
and thickened a trifle with corn starch, and — 
as a complement for the smoked beef you will 



I GO A-MARKETING loi 

desire something sour — try watercress dressed 
with lemon juice and salt, unless you are so 
enamored of tomatoes that you prefer them to 
any other regetable in the morning, now. 

My next (really I don't mean this to read 
like an enigma) idea if you choose to put it 
into action will cause your break^t table to 
answer to this description : Raspberries, sweet- 
ened a bit, tossed in whipped cream and put 
into paper cases which come on purpose for 
the carrying out of dainty table schemes, and 
then chilled on the ice for at least an hour 
before serving. Trouble ? Oh, yes, there *s . 
some trouble involved, but your reward will 
be swift and sure, my word for it. Something 
exceptionally dainty and palate-appealing must 
follow the raspberries so prepared, and how 
does the thought of veal, minced finely and 
seasoned perfectly, with poached eggs on top, 
coincide with your idea of the fitness of 
things ? 

Very soon we shall have currants in abun- 
dance, and it has always seemed to me that 
when one is to have ham for breakfast they go 
particularly well for a first course. And the 
ham is entitled to different treatment in sum- 
mer from that which it receives in the cold 



loa I GO A-MARKETING 

Ham TooBt weather. For instance, just now if you 
have slices of toast and sprinkle lightly 
over them grated ham mixed with grated 
cheese, and then put them in a hot oven till 
the cheese is dissolved, your family will' be 
your debtor to the extent of one new and dis- 
tinct gastronomical emotion. 

Qooaeberry You will soon be able to get desirable goose- 
Cream beiges in the market, and while the average 
housekeeper will be engaged in reckoning their 
possibilities if" baked in a pie," you will, if you 
but follow my advice, cook them in sugar till 
tender, strain through a sieve, cool the puree, 
then boil it down and cool once more, that it 
may be in readiness for the next morning's 
breakfast, served with whipped cream flavored 
with lemon. You will find that this will pave 
the way excellently for a fine bluefish, properly 
broiled, and flanked by a tomato omelet. 

It is not in my province at present to pre- 
scribe the diflFerent cakes, muflins, and rolls 
that should accompany the foregoing dishes, 
for every cook-book sets forth an array of 
such recipes from which to select one for every 
day in the year. Neither do I presume to 
suggest to any woman in what she shall be 
clothed. No, when I go into the subject of 



I GO A-MARKETING 103 

dress for the breakfast table it will be to ex* 
ploit my ideas upon the way that men should 
array themselves. 



Whatever other faults the out-of-season 
strawberry may have it cannot be said of it 
that it induces satiety. And I wonder if the 
season of '^ natives " could be long enough to 
have that efiect on the palate. Probably. But 
this is n't the place to go into a discussion of 
that side of the question. 

Serving strawberries is or should be an 
every-day occurrence while the season lasts. 
I have told you in other places of two or three 
ways of serving them that I hope you found 
worthy a place among your collection of re- 
cipes for dainty dishes. But I believe I Ve strawberry 
said nothing about strawberry fritters. And ^'^^^^^ 
in case you have never tried them let me sug- 
gest that you have them soon prepared 
in this way : Get the very largest straw- 
berries you can find. Take off the hulls and 
cover them entirely with any sort of marma- 
lade, preferably apricot, then roll them in 
macaroon crumbs, dip them one at a time into 
the lightest frying batter you know how to 






I04 I GO A-.MARKETING 

make and fiy them in very hot fat. Drain 
and roll them in powdered sugar before serv- 
ing. A really delicious dish you will find 
these fritters, quite good enough to be served 
at dessert for the very best dinner you know 
how to arrange. 

It comes to pass sometimes, you know, 

that one will have on hand a pint or so of 

strawberries that can hardly be called passidy 

still they have lost their pristine freshness and 

Strawberry show symptoms of becoming soft. Well, the 

Pudding y^^^ y^^^ ^^ serve them is to heat them through 

in a little syrup, not letting them lose their 
shape or their color. Then put them into a 
pudding dish and cover them with a half-inch 
layer of bread-crumbs. Make a custard of 
four eggs and a quart of milk, seasoning it 
with a little grated nutmeg, pour into the 
dish with the berries and breadcrumbs and 
bake for half an hour. It may be served 
either hot or cold. And you will have reason 
to be pleased with yourself for having turned 
out an appetizing sweet, and one that will 
help you to foster that pet belief of every 
housekeeper, namely, that you are past mis- 
tress in the art of domestic economy. 

Another dainty sweet can be made by mash- 



I GO A-MARKETING 105 



ing a quart of strawberries with half a pint or so Strawberry 

of sugar, and then letting them stand for half an "^^^'^ 

hour while you are making a syrup of half a 

pint of sugar and the same quantity of water. 

When this syrup has boiled twenty minutes 

mix with it an ounce of gelatine dissolved in 

half a pint of water. Take the syrup from 

the fire and strain the strawberries through a 

fine sieve into it. Stand the bowl containing 

the mixture on the ice and whip briskly for 

five minutes, then add the whipped whites of 

four eggs and keep right on beating till it has 

the grace to thicken. Then turn it into a 

number of small moulds or one large one. 

When it is to be served unmould on the 

prettiest dish you own, sprinkle powdered 

sugar over the top and pour a little whipped 

cream round in a fanciful shape for a border. 

If you are going to make a strawberry straufberry 
salad, and I think you will after I tell you ^^^ 
how, you should have the strawberries as fresh 
as possible. Cut them in halves, and if they 
are the bouncer variety cut them in quarters. 
Put them into a basin with as much sugar as 
you think they will need; to one quart of 
berries add a wineglass of brandy, a table- 
spoonful of strained lemon juice, and then 



io6 I GO A-MARKETING 

pack in ice till they are all but frozen. Dish 
up in a pile when serving and put a border of 
whipped cream round the salad. 
Pear Salad A salad of almost any kind of fruit makes 
an appetizing dish for luncheon or for dinner. 
One of pears is really delicious if the pears are 
peeled, cored, and cut in thin slices, laid in a 
dish, sprinkled ever so lightly with powdered 
sugar, and have a few drops of brandy or rum 
poured over them. Of course this salad, like 
all others made of fruit, needs to be thoroughly 
chilled before it is served, to have its appetiz- 
ing qualities at their best. 
Pineapple If a pineapple salad seems to you a fitting 
^^^ dessert for the particular luncheon you have 
in mind, it is easily prepared. Be sure that 
the pineapples, two of them we'll say, are 
perfectly ripe; shred them thoroughly and 
throw away the core. Put the shredded fruit 
into a deep glass dish, and pour over it a good 
half-pint of powdered sugar mixed with a 
tablespoon each of brandy and cura9oa. This 
salad should stand for about three hours before 
serving, so that the sugar may become quite 
dissolved. 

And a salad of several kinds of fruits makes 
an altogether charming dish. Try it some 



-«■ 



I GO A-MARKETING 107 

time. Have half a pound of perfecdy ripe Salad of 
cherries, remove the stalks and stones ; ^^''f'"^ 
have the same quantity of currants, but have 
a part of them red and the other part white, 
just to make the dish a bit prettier, and have 
a quarter of a pound each of raspberries and 
strawberries. Sprinkle over the fruit plenty 
of powdered white sugar and three tablespoons 
of brandy. Shake about lightly that the 
sugar may dissolve before it is served. 

Some day when you have been so fortunate Crystallized 
as to get some particularly large and good /^o^P^^rriea 
raspberries, fix them up in this way: Hull 
them, of course, and then dip them one at a 
time in the beaten white of an egg mixed with 
a tablespoonfiil of water. As you take the 
raspberries from the egg roll them, one at a 
time, in powdered sugar and put at short dis- 
tances from each other on a sheet of white 
paper to become perfectly dry, which will take 
two or three hours. When dry keep on ice 
till served for dessert. And a dainty dessert 
you will find it, my word for it. Strawberries 
and blackberries, also, may be treated in the 
same way, but I doubt if they will find the - 
favor that will be shown the raspberries. 

And a raspberry cream is pretty sure to be 



io8 I GO A-MARKETING 



Cream 



Raspberry a favorite dish in almost any company. It is 
ream ^^^ simple, too. Just press the raspberries 
through a fine sieve to remove the seeds ; 
mix in well half a pint of cream and sufficient 
sugar to sweeten. Beat it well, and as fast as 
froth rises skim it off and put it on a hair 
sieve. Put the cream that is left in a glass 
dish, pile the whipped cream on the top, 
mounting it as high as possible, and serve. 
Banana Another delicious fruit cream is made by 
pressing half a dozen bananas through a fine 
hair sieve into a basin, mixing with the fruit 
one and one-half pints of cream, flavored with 
vanilla, and then passing the whole through a 
fine sieve. Freeze the cream a little — till it 
just thickens — and then add to it a pint of 
cream, two tablespoonfuls of sugar and a wine- 
glassful of Madeira. Keep in the freezer 
for two or three hours before serving. 
Peach This you will find is also a tempting way 
in which to make a peach cream, but if the 
peaches are not perfectly ripe it will be a good 
idea to stew them for two or three minutes in a 
little syrup. The peaches, of course, will need 
more sugar than the bananas do, but no hard 
and fast rule can be given for the amount — 
just sweeten them according to your judgment 



Cream 



I GO A-MARKETING 109 

Have you noticed that with all I Ve had to 
say about strawberries herein^ not once have 
I quoted Dr. Boteler's remark concerning 
them ? And yet I 've heard it said that a 
woman finds it as impossible to refrain from 
mentioning the famous saying when writing 
about strawberries, if only half a dozen lines, 
as does a man to omit all mention of Izaak 
Walton when he has anything to say about 
going a-fishing. 



JULY 

** Unlike my subject nonv shall be my song i 
It shall be wttyy and it shan't be long,** 



IT was with the thought of Hortensia's 
garden party weighing somewhat heav- 
ily on my mind that I made my cus- 
tomary tour ** all on a market day," for she 
had beseeched me with tears in her voice to 
plan for her a list of appetizing dishes to put 
before her guests which should not be so 
elaborate as though meant for a grand dinner, 
nor yet so simple as if intended for the 
refreshment of a Sunday-school picnic. 

Hortensia would, I felt sure, see to it that 
the piazzas, grounds, and tent-like buffet were 
so decorated and adorned that one would at 
once conclude that Flora herself had taken a 
personal interest in the appointments, and I 
firmly resolved that, come what would, my 
part of the programme should be carried out 
in such a manner that reasonable grounds 
should be furnished for the supposition that 
no less a person than Epicurus had had a 
finger in the pie. Therefore it was with a 
full appreciation of the responsibility I had 



I GO A-MARKETING m 

assumed that I opened negotiations with the 
marketman. 

As all the world knows, a garden party 
would n't be much of an affair without game, 
and fortunately for the hosts and hostesses at 
such merrymakings, there are in market at Roasted 
this season now fine doe birds, which may be ^^ ^"^^* 
seasoned with a little salt, a suspicion of 
Madeira, roasted in a quick oven, and de- 
pended on to furnish delight, when thoroughly 
cooled, to the most captious of guests. 

Another delightful manner of serving game Qame Tarta 
is in the form of tarts — squab or pigeon 
tarts; line the tart moulds with paste, and 
then fill with the breasts only of the birds, 
adding a few slices of mushrooms and moisten- 
ing with a liquor made by boiling the bones 
of the birds in a little water well seasoned with 
salt, a bit of pepper, and a spoonful or two of 
sherry. Cover the tarts with the paste, have 
perfectly cold, and unmould before serving. 

Just now one may find tender and tooth- Turkey in 
some young turkeys in the market stalls, ^''^'^ 
waiting to do duty at any event to which they 
may be called, and for the particular occasion 
in which we are interested at this instant there 
can be no better way of serving them than by 



112 I GO A-MARKETING 

boiling till tender and then cutting into small 
pieces, moulding them with the help of aspic 
jelly into shapes so attractive that one longs 
to learn if they can be quite as gratifying to 
the palate as to the eye. And, by the way, 
what a godsend aspic jelly b in the prepara- 
tion of dishes to be served cold ! 
Be9f Tongue Another cold dish which is looked upon as 
being a sort of commonplace standby is of 
boiled tongue, but I have found that it is easily 
raised to a level bordering on the ideal if pre- 
pared in this way : Boil the beef tongue till 
tender in water which has been highly sea- 
soned with v^etables, herbs, and spice; re- 
move the skin, brush the tongue with beaten 
egg, strew it thickly with bread-crumbs, and 
bake for half an hour in a hot oven, basting 
frequendy with port wine. Let it get per- 
fecdy cold before slicing and have the slices 
as thin as possible. 

Near to the tongue, as a relish for it, and in- 
deed for all of the foregoing dishes, one's sense 
of the fitness of things approves the idea of 
having crisp, thin slices of toast, sprinkled with 
the finest litde bits of green peppers imaginable, 
and masked with a thin layer of mayonnaise. 
In fact, one, if not the best, way to serve 



I GO A^MARKETING 113 

salads at an outdoor festivity, is upon thin 
slices of toast of white or graham bread, as 
one chooses. For instance, a lettuce and 
anchovy salad made by shredding the lettuce 
and cutting the anchovies in two and dressing 
with lemon juice and a dash of cayenne, with 
the yolks of hard-boiled eggs finely minced, 
seems to call for just such a tiny bit of toast 
as one gets in this way of serving, to carry out 
one's idea of perfection in little things. 

And after I had decided that the salads at 
Hortensia's garden party should be so served, 
it was quite natural that the idea of sandwiches 
should suggest itself to my mind ; but before 
the idea had time to really assume a definite 
shape I hastily but conclusively rebelled 
against the prospect of seeing those time- 
honored edibles set forth for the delectation 
of Hortensia's guests in the guise of the com- 
mon or restaurant variety. And this is the French 
way I overcame what bade fair to be a trouble- Sandwhhea 
some difficulty : Rolls, deliciously fresh French 
rolls, with a circular piece of the top crust 
removed and kept whole, while all the soft 
part of the roll was scooped out to make 
room for a filling of chicken, lobster, or sar- 
dines, after which the little cover was put back 



114 I GO A-MARKETING 

into place^ and the comfort and joy of the 
partaker was an assured thing. 

After the sandwich scheme was fully ar- 
ranged, it seemed as though the *^ substan- 
tials ** were well looked out for, and that I must 
be giving a thought to the fruits which were to 
make glad the senses of those bidden to the 
feast. Not any great amount of deep think- 
ing was required to make a selection, however, 
for there was an abundance at hand from which 
to choose ; there were plums, juicy and sweet, 
of richest hues — purple, red, and green, 
and others of the most tempting golden color 
imaginable, and certainly no well-furnished 
table could afford to be without either speci- 
men. Grapes, too, there were in an infinite 
variety, but for Hortensia's party I chose only 
black Hamburgs and Muscats. Of course, I 
knew she must have peaches, and I spent a 
weary hour in trying to find some that tasted 
as well as they looked, but my labor was in 
Muak Melon vain. As a compensation for this disappoint- 
''•"^ ment, however, I found cantaloupes possessing 
a flavor which can only be expressed by the 
words " divinely perfect." And I found, too, 
delicious little musk melons to be prepared in 
this way: Slice the melon, removing both 



I GO A-MARKETING 115 

rind and seeds^ put in a preserving pan with a 
little sugar, and stew to a marmalade ; rub it 
through a sieve, dissolve in it a sufficient 
amount of gelatine, and when quite cool mix 
with it stiffly whipped cream, flavored with 
a little essence or liqueur, as one likes. 

Cakes and ices, of course, are as important 
to the great and unqualified success of a gar- 
den party as are the guests, and of the former 
I decided that the varieties known as *' Mad- 
eleines" and "petits fours" would be most 
acceptable to all concerned, while of the latter 
there could be no question as to the desirability 
of mousse with peaches, chocolat parfait, and 
milk sherbeL 

Of quite as much importance as either of 
the articles mentioned in the foregoing para- 
graph are the bonbons, and the advice which 
I have bestowed upon Hortensia in regard to 
them I repeat here for the benefit of any who 
may care to follow it, namely : " Cosdy thy 
bonbons as thy purse can buy." 

For out-of-door feasting plenty of drinks MombRom 
should be provided; "cups," whether of claret, 
hock, or champagne, should be made on the 
spot and not prepared beforehand, as the taste 
of stale soda water is absolutely objectionable. 



ii6 I GO A-MARKETING 

Cider, if iced, is really delicious, while a drink 
which the English find highly refreshing is 
called '^moss rose/' and is made of equal 
quantities of tea, coffee, and " cup," either of 
the champagne or claret brand. 



I have a story to tell you. It has nothing 
of mystery in it, neither need it, necessarily, 
prove harrowing ; it is far from being roman- 
tic, and there is n't a glimmer of sentiment in 
it. It has n't a moral ; if it had I shouldn't 
relate it. No, it is just true ; that 's the best 
of it and it 's the worst of it, too, as you will 
admit, because it is n't without a parallel. 

It — my story — is of a very charming old 
fermhouse situated " near to Nature's heart." 

At this farmhouse was gathered together a 
small company of people known to the natives 
of that section of the country as "summer 
boarders." To themselves this same company 
was known as a band of " nature-worshippers." 
One day they were all seated in the shade on 
a little knoll, each one trying to outdo the 
others in the matter of rhapsodizing the " eter- 
nal hills," the " books to be found in brooks," 
etc., when up spake one of their number who 



I GO A-MARKETING 117 

had hitherto been silent : *^ Oh, I would give 
all the delights that this place possesses for 
one hour in the company of an ice-chest 
stocked as it could be with the good things in 
market now/* 

Of course this was philistinism of the rank- 
est sort, and it savored of treason, too. But 
the offender held her head high and parried 
well, if the truth must be told, the rebukes of 
her hearers. The mischief was done, how- 
ever ; the seeds of discontent fell upon fertile 
ground, made receptive by a long diet of 
corned beef, curd cheese and " plenty of milk." 

The next morning every conveyance the 
farmer-landlord could muster was pressed into 
service to take his guests to the station. 
Every one of them had received a sudden call 
to Boston. But none confided to his or her 
neighbor the exact nature of this post haste 
summons to the Hub, and when the tr^n 
pulled into the station they scattered in differ- 
ent directions, hurriedly saying to each other : 
" See you on the 4.30 train this afternoon ; 
good-by." 

And sure enough they were all aboard 
the train as agreed, each of them with an arm* 
ful of bundles. Nobody volunteered any in* 



ii8 I GO A-MARKETING 

formation as to what his or her bundles con. 
tained, and nobody asked any questions. 
They simply ignored the existence of them 
and talked of how good it would seem to get 
back to Peaceful Valley once more, with its 
quietness and vast opportunities for re- 
flection. 

That night each of them had a private 
audience with the landlady and the next 
day at dinner was seen the result of the trip 
to Boston and of the said private audience. 

First of all was brought in some delicious 
Spanish mackerel, broiled to a turn. These 
were furnished by Professor A., author of the 
celebrated work " Does Angling Produce 
Insanity ? ** He said that of all the fish in 
market these seemed to him just now the 
most desirable. 
Oyster Plant With the fish were served some of the finest 
with Cream oyster plants that ever found their way into 
the Boston market. They were cut in pieces, 
boiled in salted water till tender, then drained 
and served with a tablespoonful or so of melt- 
ed butter and cream enough to cover them, 
having just a dash of pepper in it. A simple 
way of preparing them and yet quite good 
enough for anybody, as you will see upon 



I GO A-MARKETING 119 



trying it. My word for it, the Peaceful Valley 
boarders thought it a dish fit for the gods. 

After the mackerel had been discussed and 
despatched and Profes3or A. had accepted 
with a great deal of grace the vote of thanks 
presented to him, the game was brought in. 
This course was offered for the delectation of 
his fellow-boarders by Professor B., author of 
" Birds I Have Met." 

There were delicious chicken grouse that 
had cost the professor quite a pretty penny, 
viz. : two dollars and a half the pair ; and 
plover of various kinds that were to be had 
for four dollars the dozen. 

And this is the way the grouse were cooked : 
After the feet, necks, and pinions had been re- Grouae 
moved their bodies were divided into three ^^^ 
pieces and put in a stewpan with the pinions 
and a little chopped bacon ; after frying a bit 
some salt and pepper were introduced. Then 
were added two tablespoonfuls of white wine 
for each bird ; then the birds were taken off 
and cooled; after which they were arranged 
with the wine in a pie dish with hard-boiled 
eggs cut in quarters amongst them, covered 
with the best pastry crust that the landlady 
knew how to make, and it was pretty good. 



I20 I GO A-MARKETING 

really. In fact the dish turned out a great 
success, as the result of a good many confer- 
ences between the donator of the birds and 
the cook. The Professor had bought, the 
day before, the latest and best thing in the 
way of a cookery book, and after carefully 
reading it had come to the conclusion that 
this recipe for cooking grouse would be more 
easily mastered by the landlady than any 
other. The beauty of a grouse pie, too, as 
everybody knows, lies in its being just as good 
cold as it is hot. 

RoasM The plovers were dressed, and with a pinch 
of salt and a bit of pepper put inside of them 
and the thinnest possible slice of fat salt pork 
tied over their breasts, were roasted for about 
twelve minutes in a hot oven. 

And with the game was served some of the 
choicest stalks of celery that it has ever been 
the lot of mortal to enjoy at this time of 
year. 

As for the fruit that was donated for this 
special occasion you would consider it a treat 
to hear the landlady tell of it, and of the sen- 
sations she experienced at seeing such a vari- 
ety when the ^' apples on the Early Harvest 



Plover 



I GO A-MARKETING 121 

tree on the south side of the orchard wall 
were only just beginning to get mellow/' 

There were plums of almost every color 
under the sun ; there were nectarines, the 
mere sight of which would make one's mouth 
to water ; there were delicious Delaware grapes 
and some little white grapes called the Lady 
de Coverley, that come from California. They 
are just as good, too, as one would expect 
from the name that has been given them. 
There was a curiosity in the shape of a banana 
cantaloupe, and there were all sorts of other 
^nelons, but the melon par excellence was 
what is known as the Montreal cantaloupe. 
They are raised on the banks of the St Law- 
rence River, and simply refuse to grow in any 
other locality. Gardeners in other places have 
done everything to induce it to become natur- 
alized, but all to no purpose. The particular 
specimen that found its way to the Peaceful Val- 
ley weighed just twenty-one pounds, and cost 
the purchaser ^2.50. But it was n't extrava- 
gance to buy twenty-one pounds of such 
deliciousness, even if it had cost twice that 
sum. 

And what do you suppose these nature- 
worshippers did after partaking of all the 



122 I GO A-MARKETING 

good things herein described and set forth? 
Well, they went out and sat under the trees 
and began to talk of what Thoreau said about 
huckleberries ! 

I came away then. 



As a refreshing entr^acte let us dwell on the 
subject of ices. Let us have something more 
than just the ordinary way of making every- 
day routine ice creams. We will say " ices " 
— they mean unutterable, indescribable things 
that tickle the palate and cool one's very 
existence simultaneously. Though after all 
it may be well to talk a minute of ice creams — 
beginning with generalities. The first of these 
I have found is that the easiest and best ice 
cream is made by using one-third rich cream 
to two-thirds milk with sugar as desired. 
No eggs and no cooking. If it is frozen 
smoothly it is perfect. This, however, is but 
the working plan — the flavoring and the 
moulding are to be arranged to suit yourself. 

However, if cream is not available, then 
eggs and milk in the proportion of eight eggs 
to one quart of milk may be used. This 
requires cooking like an ordinary custard. 



I GO A-MARKETING 123 

Sugar to your taste, but flour or cornstarch 
are to be left out, by all means. 

If you are using fresh fruits, such as pine- 
apple, peaches, strawberries and the like they 
should not be cooked but be added to the cream 
after it is frozen and just before it is packed. 
Candied fruit, fruit used for frozen puddings 
and the like, is usually soaked in brandy or 
rum before adding to the cream. At least, 
that 's the sort of treatment it gets from me. 

Just a word about coffee ice cream. For Cojfee 
I don't think you will find this recipe any- ^'^ ^''*"" 
where else. And it 's a pity you should n't 
know of it. Have then one pint of very 
strong coffee, a gill of brandy, one quart of 
cream and three pints of rich milk. Then 
freeze and be thankful whenever a hot day 
makes it possible for you to serve your coffee 
at dinner in this way. 

A great many people have a preference for 
sherbets and of these I have some charming 
things to say, for I appreciate a sherbet 
myself. There's a milk sherbet that suits MUk Sherbet 
me down to the ground. It is made of two 
quarts of milk, four cups of sugar, and the 
juice of six lemons. Also the whites whipped 
well of two or three or more eggs as you feel 



124 I GO A-MARKETING 

inclined to use them. Surely the lemons will 
curdle the milk. But don't let that disturb 
you. Put it in the freezer and go ahead. It 
will come out as right as right can be. 
Strawberry For a Strawberry sherbet made in this way 
Sherbet j y^^y^ ^ fondness that I am not ashamed to 

acknowledge anywhere: Sprinkle over one 
quart of strawberries half a pound of sugar ; 
let it stand three hours, then strain through a 
coarse cloth, squeezing hard. To this juice 
add three pints of water, as much sugar as it 
seems to you to need, the juice of a lemon 
and freeze. 
Pineapple A pineapple sherbet is made in the same 

Sherbet way, though not as much sugar will be required 
probably. 
Peach And for a peach sherbet follow the same 

Sherbet directions, adding a wineglassful of brandy 
before freezing. 

Currant A currant sherbet is a deliciously refresh- 

Sherbet jj^g thing to have either in anticipation 
or in reality on a hot day. Boil a quart 
of water and a pound of sugar to a 
syrup. Skim and stir with it a pint of fresh 
currant juice which has been heated with a 
littje sugar. Let this cool thoroughly, then 
add the beaten whites of four eggs and freeze. 



•■I 



I 



I GO A-MARKETING 125 

For myself, I am quite through shying when 
anyone says artificial coloring in food — I 
have found the vegetable colorings as innoc- 
uous as so much water, and worth their weight 
in gold in cases like the present, namely the 
coloring of this currant sherbet. The only 
drawback about which is that of itself it will 
not be pretty to the eye — therefore hesitate 
not, but in with a few drops of carmine color- 
ing. 

A champagne ice is n't such a high-roller Champagne 
refreshment as it sounds. To begin with it 's **«''^** 
a rank solecism to freeze any but the most 
inexpensive of champagnes, and then you 
don't require many other good things for 
your ice — the champagne is enough in itself. 
You just make a very strong and sweet lemon 
ade — a quart of it and half freeze it ; then 
pour in the champagne and wholly freeze the 
mixture. Get the champagne into the freezer 
as soon as you can after it is opened before 
its volatile gas escapes. If you prefer a more 
hilarious refreshment just keep on with your 
use of intoxicants by adding after the cham- 
pagne a wineglassful of brandy. Also, if you 
like, you may add the beaten whites of eggs, 
ad libitum. 



126 I GO A-MARKETING 



Champagne While we are on the subject of frozen 
Strawb "''^^ champagne and the entering wedge has done 
its work let me speak a good word for cham- 
pagne with strawberries. Freeze together a 
quart of champagne and a pint of sugar syrup. 
Just at the last add one pint of strawberries 
which have been halved and quartered and 
marinaded in a little brandy and sugar for 
about fifteen minutes. Cherries used in this 
way will make you ready to declare that till 
you tried it you did n't know how to live. 
Ciaret A claret sherbet is even better than it 
Sherbet sounds if you make it in this way : Rub the 
peel of two oranges oiF with plenty of loaf 
sugar and then make a syrup of this sugar 
and a pint of water. When cool, stir in the 
juice of three oranges, a quart of claret, a 
tablespoonful of brandy and the whites of four 
eggs whipped to a stiff froth and freeze slowly. 
Sometimes there is used in this recipe the 
zest of lemon peel instead of oranges and then 
there is used some orange marmalade, heated 
and strained of course. Or any jelly which 
you may fancy goes in very harmoniously 
with this concoction. 

A kirsch sherbet is a delicacy that does n't 
put itself in the way of ordinary mortals every 



I GO A-MARKETING 127 

day in the week. That *s why its welcome is Kirach 
a soulful one when it does appear. You have ^''•''^•* 
a pint of chablis and a pint of any preferred 
fruit syrup, which you freeze. Then at the 
last there is added to it half a pint of kirschen- 
wasser. 

By the way, before I forget it, you may 
treat watermelon with the frozen cham- 
pagne exactly as prescribed hereinbefore for 
strawberries and champagne. 

All these are but a few of the ices familiar 
to expert cooks nowadays. But each one 
herein given is capable of so many variations 
that I am leaving that part of it to you. Do 
you know that I am saddened more and more 
every day as I contemplate the power that 
lies in suggestion and the stupidity of people 
who will not avail themselves of it? But 
this is not perhaps the sort of talk you look 
for in a book that has to do with the material 
things of life. Very well, we will cut it off. 



AUGUST 



" Ahy you flofvor e*uerything} you an the «vanilla of sociity.''* 

ABOUT the only time when I am really- 
anxious to have the right to vote is 
^ when some legislation tending toward 
the preservation of the lobster is on the 
docket. Then, if I had the opportunity, I 
should not only vote with both hands for a 
^' close season " on that delectable shellfish, 
but I should lecture as long as I could get any 
one to listen to me, either on Boston Com- 
mon or in Faneuil Hall, in an endeavor to 
induce others, men and women, to vote with 
me, I believe I should even resort to bribery 
where I thought it would do — and I am a 
fair judge of individuals who don't require 
their " inducements " to be too heavily coated 
with sugar — in order to put it through. 

As matters are now there are almost as 
many ways for preparing lobster as there are 
lobsters in the sea, and in order to try them 
all you would better be about it before the 
supply is utterly exhausted, or some one in 
authority calls " time." 



I GO A-MARKETING 129 

For devilling lobsters I have a budget of Devilled 
recipes, but this seems to be about the best ^^^^^^ 
one in the lot: Split the lobster, after it is 
boiled, in two lengthwise, and put it into a 
baking-pan ; season with salt and cayenne, and 
pour over it plenty of melted butter, and bake 
in a hot oven for five minutes. Just before 
serving spread over it a sauce of melted butter 
thickened with flour and seasoned with a few 
drops of lemon juice, a sprinkling of mustard, 
and a little Madeira or sherry wine. 

Lest you should get so attached to this Lobster 
devilled lobster of mine, I hasten to put here ^^^* 
an alluring sounding recipe, hoping you may 
be induced to try it before forming the devilled 
lobster habit. First fry a sliced onion in 
enough butter so that there will be no brown- 
ing of it. Take out the onion in two or 
three minutes, as it is only intended to flavor 
the butter, and then fry in this butter the 
diced meat of two boiled lobsters for two 
or three minutes. Sprinkle in some chopped 
parsley and salt and pepper as you like it. 
Pour over the lobster a pint of white wine, 
and as soon as this gets to the boiling point 
take out the lobster and put it on slices of 
toast. Into the boiling wine put all the 

9 



ijo I GO A-MARKETING 

butter from the lobsters, just a few chopped 
mushrooms, if they are at h^d, and pour 
over the slices of lobster toast. Have this 
just as hot as possible when sending to table, 
and you will find the alluringness of this dish 
is not in the telling of it only. 

Lobster A lobster tartlet is a gastronomical dream. 
Tartlet j^^ ^^^ ^^u y^^^ while we are on the subject, 

and after you try it you will be telling the 
same story. You should have tartlet moulds 
made of the very best puff paste, which you 
fill with diced cold boiled lobster, chopped 
cooked mushrooms, a caper or two, and a bit 
of mayonnaise. 
Lobster a la Lobster i la Newberg is such a staple dish 
ewberg ^j^^^ j^ seems almost like plagiarizing something 

or somebody to put it on record here. How- 
ever, as no list of lobster dishes is correct 
without it, here it shall go. Cut the boiled 
lobster into two-inch pieces and fry over a 
tremendously hot fire, either in a chafing dish or 
on a range, for just two or three seconds ; lessen 
the heat then, or pull the frying-pan into 
cooler quarters, while you cover the lobster 
with thick, rich cream. Let this come to a 
threat to boil, then stir in say three egg yolks 



I GO A-MARKETING 131 

to a pint of cream, the yolks stirred in a little 
cream, till it thickens a bit. Just a dash of 
sherry, say two tablespoonfuls, and there 
you are. 

For stuffing lobster tails cut the meat of Stuffed 
the lobsters up rather finely, and add to it ''''^^^' ^"^'^ 
half its quantity of mushrooms. Fry in but- 
ter a bit, dilute with a little cream, season 
highly with cayenne and salt and fill the half 
tails with the mixture. Coat with bread 
crumbs that have been stirred about in melted 
butter, and brown in a hot oven. 

The making of lobster croquettes is a pleas- Lobster 
ant sort of business, for there is so much an- ^'^"^^^ 
ticipation of good to come stirred in with it. 
Cut the meat — don't chop it — rather finely : 
moisten with a bit of cream and the butter 
from the lobster. Mould and roll in crumbs 
and fry a golden brown. Don't go to seasoning 
these croquettes very highly or the delicacy 
will depart from them. But you know that. 
And do you know that you may add to almost 
any sauce used for boiled or baked fish some 
diced cooked lobster to the benefit of every- 
thing and everybody concerned ? Well, you 
may — my word for it. 



132 I GO A-MARKETING 

If I were to tack a sub-title to this screed 
it might very properly be : " Women's Lunch- 
eons/' inasmuch as it was in aid of one of 
these mild social dissipations that I last peram- 
bulated through the markets. Very properly 
also I might characterize the trip as a ^^ peri- 
patetic wandering through the market-place," 
for all the while I was in quest of edibles 
suitable to put before a purely feminine com- 
pany I was talking to myself about the prob- 
able origin of this form of hospitality. When, 
where, and by whom it was invented ? My 
own conjecture as to its inception finally took 
this course: Algernon was in the habit of 
attending a great many goings-on to which 
women were never bidden. And Araminta 
frequently discussed with him the calls thus 
made upon his time. Whereupon it came to 
pass that after one particularly interesting de- 
bate on the subject, which debate was brought 
to an end by the sharp, quick closing of the 
street door, Araminta had an idea. An idea 
which she called an inspiration, nothing less, 
and it had for its starting-point a luncheon, a 
dainty, gay little affair, at which no black coat 
should be allowed to intrude. And the piice 
de resistance of the meal should be a sweet 



I GO A-MARKETING 133 



called " revenge." Oh, yes indeed, not only 
would her guests applaud her originality, but 
the hearts of the absent males would be torn 
to tatters at her assumption of independence. 
And doubtless Part One of the programme was 
carried out to the letter, but, between you and 
me, I don't believe Algernon ever lost a wink 
of sleep over it In fact, when he settled the 
bill I have good reasons for mistrusting that 
he said something about the ''game being 
jolly well worth the candle." 

But to-day the women's luncheon is an in- 
stitution, and a very chic and dainty diversion 
into the bargain. And there are those who 
make it their business to tell how a woman 
should be arrayed at such a festivity, but that 
is out of my province. If, however, you 
would know how the menu should read at 
this time of year, allow me : — 

Cantaloupe. 
Bouillon in cups. 
Lobster patties. 
Lamb cutlets with mushrooms. 

String beans fried in butter. 
Broiled quails. 

Tomatoes stuffed with celery and mayonnakc* 
Wine ice cream. Grapes. Coffee. 

I almost said oysters at the beginning of 



134 I GO A-MARKETING 

• 

the menu, but oysters we shall have with us 
for several months to come, while cantaloupes 
are beginning to say it 's about time they were 
going. As yet, however, they are just as de- 
licious and no more expensive than they have 
been at any time through the season. 

Now as for bouillon. I get it canned, and 
think myself very fortunate in being able to 
do so. But you may prefer to make your 
own, and if so you probab^ have an always 
reliable recipe. Mes congratulations. 
Lobster But if you have a score of recipes for 
Pattiee making lobster patties, I honestly believe you 
will follow the one I am pleased to give you 
herein. I take myself very seriously, you 
see. Well, prepare some of the very best puff 
paste that you know how to make. Roll it 
out on a floured table; with a fluted cutter 
cut out some rounds, put them on a baking 
dish, set them on ice for fifteen minutes, then 
brush them over with beaten egg. With a 
plain tin cutter of about half the size of the 
fluted cover cut through a third of each of 
the rounds, dipping the cutter in warm water 
every time ; this will form the cover when 
baked. Bake in a quick oven. When cooked 
lift off the cover and scoop out a little of the 



I GO A-MARKETING 135 

soft paste inside. For the lobster filling take 
the meat from a boiled lobster, cut it into very 
small pieces and fry a little in butter, in a 
very little butter, till they just threaten to 
brown. Then pour over the lobster bits 
enough thick cream to barely cover them; 
heat this, but don't let it boil. Thicken it 
with two or more beaten eggs, according to 
the quantity of lobster. Season delicately 
with salt and a suspicion of cayenne. Have 
the patties hot and the lobster hot, and arrange 
them on a hot dish for serving. For dear 
knows that a cold or a lukewarm patty is an 
abomination. 

After the patties the lamb cutlets. And, LambCutiet9 
mind you, they are to be fried, not broiled. I?'**^ 
Season them well with salt and pepper, and 
fry in a little butter over a brisk fire till 
browned on both sides. Then drain off the 
butter and baste them with just a little Ma- 
deira wine. Dress the cutlets in a circle and 
pour into the centre a Madeira sauce with 
mushrooms. This you make by heating half 
a pint of any good stock, adding to it a gill of 
Madeira, thickening it with a little flour braided 
with butter, and adding at the last a dozen 
mushrooms that have been minced and fried 



136 I GO A-MARKETING 

moderately in a little butter. You may use 
sherry instead of the Madeira for basting the 
cutlets and for the sauce if you like. And 
also you may use the tinned instead of fresh 
mushrooms if you prefer to do so. For fresh 
mushrooms may not be any too plenty just 
now, and consequently are a thought expen* 
sive. Still, they *re quite worth the price. 

And now that the "law^s off" probably 
hereabouts on quail, you will find them in 
pretty good condition. Indeed, they are so 
good that I hope you will just have them 
broiled after salting a bit, and pin your faith 
to their own delicious flavor to give delight 
to your guests. Have them served on toast, 
if you must, that has been slightly buttered, 
but forget to serve any jelly with them. 

I 've told you elsewhere all about tomatoes 
stuffed with celery and mayonndse, so I won't 
go into particulars this time. But tomatoes 
will not be with us at the prices for which we 
can now get them a great while longer, and 
celery is remarkably good in quality and low 
in price. So there *s a good broad hint for you. 

That wine ice cream which I have recom- 
mended is truly a delightful confection. You 
have a pint of moderately rich cream, and you 



I GO A-MARKETING 137 



add to it the yolks of five eggs and three Wine 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, and then you heat it ^^® "^ 
just a trifle. Next you stir in a gill of white 
wine, and then you freeze it. When quite 
frozen stir into it some chopped preserved 
cherries. Then turn the cream into a mould 
packed in ice to set till time for serving, when 
it is to be turned out on a cold dish. Does n't 
that sound as if it would be worth a trial ? 

You see I Ve simply said grapes in the 
menu because, as far as that fruit is concerned 
just now, it is a case of paying your money 
and taking your choice. 

And what will the ladies have to drink? 
Suppose we say a sip of sherry with the bouil- 
lon and a bottle of pretty good Rhine wine to 
be brought in with the cutlets. And it 
does n*t seem to me that it would be over- 
doing the matter to have a cordial finale — say 
creme yvette, or creme de cacao a la vanille. 

Of course, I will tell you the approximate 
cost of such a luncheon. With good man- 
agement it can be served, inclusive of the 
wines, for twelve dollars for a dozen persons. 
And that is not bad, now, is it ? 

Did n't you just enjoy that cooling little 
entr'acte we had in July? I did. Let's 



138 I GO A-MARKETING 

have another. We will not have anything 
sweet in this, however, we will have it cold 
and savory. Does n*t that hit you favorably ? 
There are plenty of cold and dainty savories 
that may come to table as your chief dish at 
luncheon or at dinner or as an entree only, at 
the latter meal, according to the degree with 
which you manage to put on style. 
Cold Chicken There *s chicken cream, for instance, made 
Cream f^Q^^^ ^ ^^qJj boiled or roasted — well, bird. 

I don't know whether it 's chicken or fowl. 
Perhaps you paid for chicken and got fowl. 
Perhaps you paid for fowl and wheedled the 
provisioner into giving you chicken. But 
we will say chicken, anyway. Pick, then, all 
the flesh from the chicken, mince and then 
pound it. Now add to it half a pint of cream 
stiffly whipped and half a pint of just liquid 
aspic jelly. Season with salt and white pepper 
and any other condiment if you like. Then 
have one large or several small moulds and 
line them with aspic jelly and fill with the 
chicken cream. Let set till cold and stiff and 
then unmould on slices of very thin fried bread. 
Chop parsley and sprinkle over the creams 
when unmoulded. 

Another way would be to line the moulds 



I GO A-MARKETING 139 

with liquid aspic and a little tomato sauce, CMoken 
When this sets fill with the chicken cream as ^Z^y ^ 
before. If you hke the cream may be 
omitted from the chicken and when it is 
unmoulded it may be covered with a French 
dressing or with mayonnaise. 

Any remains of cold meat can be chopped 
finely, mixed with shredded lettuce or water- 
cress or parsley, capers, stoned olives, a truffle 
or two and mayonnaise, with enough liquid 
aspic to stiflTen it and moulded in any way. 

These do make delicious presentations of 
old subjects —just a little labor and a little 
inventive painstaking and you have accom- 
plished wonders. There are so many garnish- 
es that may be used with these cold things 
to make them more of a delight that it is 
impossible to go through the list. Sliced 
tomatoes or cucumbers or some cold cooked 
vegetable with a French dressing — any quan- 
tity of them you see once you begin to cast 
about for them. 

No one knows better than I do that to 
make the conventional aspic jelly is a labor 
that involves terrible risks as regards the 
breaking of the commandment concerning 
profanity. I don't mind telling you that I 



I40 I GO A-MARKETING 



found it was having such a degenerating effect 
on my whole moral nature that I hit upon 
using just the best gelatine I can buy — this 
is not the place to name it, however — and 
dissolving it in a clear stock — white or brown 
as the case demands. Try it in making these 
aspic things. 
Cold Cutlets You know, of course, that cold cutlets are 
In Jelly ^^^ j^Qg|. impossible left-over thing with which 

the housekeeper has to deal. But prepare 
some savory jelly with stock and tomato 
sauce and coat these left-over cutlets with it 
some day and have them for luncheon. You 
will confess that you have learned something 
worth knowing. 

Then there are numberless kinds of fish, 
almost any kind in fact that does n't run to 
bone, that will flake well; dip the pieces in 
a jelly of this kind diluted with any kind of 
sauce — Hollandaise, vinaigrette, tomato, and 
so on to the end of the list. Now, mind, 
when I say coat these viands with this jelly 
I don't mean for you to give them a regular 
ulster for a coat — but a little thin diaphanous 
jacket, suitable for hot weather, you under- 
stand. 

When you can use cream in the jellies. 



I GO A-MARKETING 141 

either whipped or straight, the daintiness of 
them is increased by just so much. 

There are some kinds of game — dark game 
especially — that you may slice and coat with 
this jelly using currant jelly with it also and 
get some combinations that will drive your 
friends to despair. 

Bear in mind that these jellied things must 
be kept on ice till served and the plates on 
which they are served must also be ice-colA 
It does seem too bad for me to have to bur- 
den my soul with such instructions for you — 
they should be needless. But when good 
fortune takes me to luncheon in a crack hotel 
and I get my salad on a hot plate, or a hot 
plate set before me for the serving of it, I am 
forced to the conclusion that the mental light- 
weights are still in evidence and there 's no 
knowing but what some of them in a moment 
of lucidity may become the owner of this 
book. Therefore I go into tiresome details, 
occasionally. 



SEPTEMBER 

** But tkijruit that falls without shaking 
hidted is too millotsffor mi,** 



THERE are persons, as some of us 
can testify, who appear to be horrified 
if a Manhattan cocktail is mentioned 
in the most casual manner, and who are war- 
ranted to shy if they but get a whifF of a 
Martini, but give them a chance to partake of 
an oyster cocktail and you have added a sub- 
stantial item to their sum of worldly pleasure. 
Almost everybody likes an oyster cocktail 
when it is judiciously mixed, but folk of the 
ilk above referred to do seem to have a pecul- 
iar fondness for it. Now, is it because a 
course of total abstinence has rendered their 
palates extremely sensitive to highly seasoned 
impressions, or is it that the name has a witch- 
ery that beguiles them into thinking that they 
are tasting a forbidden thing without sacrificing 
a principle ? I don't know. You tell. 
Oyst€r And tell me, too, if this is the way you set 
Cocktail about preparing one of these palate-ticklers. 
Half a dozen litde oysters dropped into a 
glass, with their juice, a little lemon juice, four 



I GO A-MARKETING 143 

miserly drops of Tabasco sauce, half a tea- 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a dessert- 
spoonful of tomato ketchup, and several 
grains of salt. Or do you substitute horse- 
radish for the Tabasco? They tell me it's 
frequently done, but for myself I prefer the 
Tabasco. It is a vexed question, anyway, 
this matter of what shall be put on a raw 
oyster to make it more palatable; the real 
dyed-in-the-wool epicurean vows that it is 
nothing short of barbarism to use more than 
the tiniest pinch of salt, while many a discrim- 
inating gourmet declares that the more you 
do for an oyster the more it does for you. 
So there you are. 

But epicureans and laymen alike are agreed Baked 
on one point, and that is the way to bake ^y^^'^ 
oysters so that they are worthy of a place on 
any table. Put into a small lined stewpan a 
quarter of a pound of butter and one teacup- 
fiil of cream, stirring it well over a quick fire 
till hot. Add a wineglass of sherry, a table- 
spoonful of anchovy sauce, and a skimpy 
sprinkling of cayenne and grated lemon peel. 
Stir over the fire till it bubbles once. Then 
pour half of the mixture into a baking dish. 
Lay the oysters on it, besprinkle them with 



with Cream 



144 I GO A-MARKETING 

a scanty covering of bread-crumbs and grated 
Parmesan cheese, with salt and pepper. Pour 
the remainder of the cream over all and brown 
to a good color. 

Once one gets in the way of baking oysters 
as herein prescribed, one's recipe for scalloped 
oysters, no matter how true and tried, will be 
lost sight of. 
Oyster Stew And the same fate will likely befall one's 
rule for making an oyster stew^ provided one 
adopts this suggestion for preparing oysters 
with cream. In the first place there should 
be put into a saucepan a pint of cream with a 
dny piece of onion and a little mace tied up 
in a muslin bag. When the cream boils 
thicken it with a tablespoonful of flour mixed 
with two tablespoonfuls of cream. Heat a 
quart of oysters, with their liquor and sufficient 
salt. Then drain and put them into a 
dish which is to be sent to table ; pour the 
cream over them, removing the onion and 
mace. With the dish serve toasted bread or 
biscuit. 

Undoubtedly all your friends are ready to 
take oath that you do have at your table the 
very best fried oysters they ever tasted. 
But the next time that you regale them with the 



I GO A-MARKETING 145 

dish, let the oysters be devilled and then fried. Devilled 
Wipe the oysters perfectly dry and lay them ^'^^^^ OyBters 
on a flat dish. Have a goodly supply of 
butter at just the melting point, mix with it a 
little salt, a suspicion of cayenne, and a cer- 
tainty of lemon juice; pour this over the 
oysters and leave them in it for at least 
ten minutes. Then roll them in a paper of 
cracker crumbs or sifted bread-crumbs; dip 
them into beaten egg, then into the crumbs 
again, and fry in boiling lard. 

Or you can make a dish of fried oysters Stuffed 
even more elaborate if you will chop six ounces ^^'^^^^^^^ 
of the white meat of any fowl with one ounce 
of fat salt pork, pound it in a mortar till 
your stock of patience threatens to strike, 
then chop a few truffles to the size of peas, 
and add them with a little white pepper to the 
chopped meat. Have four dozen oysters 
wiped dry, and with a sharp knife make an 
opening in the side of each one ; fill the holes 
with the mixture. Dip the oysters in crumbs, 
then in egg, again in the crumbs, and fry. 

Now see to it that your guests don't exhaust 
their pet adjectives on either of these dishes. 
They will need at least a good round dozen of 
superlatives after an experience with a celery 



10 



146 I GO A^MARKETING 

Oysten, roast of oysters. And this is the way the 
Mery Roawt g|.Qfy g^gg . Have ready some dainty slices of 

bread, toasted, with the crusts removed. 
Wipe dry and broil some of the smallest 
oysters you can get; broil till they begin 
to shrivel all round, then put them on 
the toast. Sprinkle a little salt over them ; 
cover them with some finely chopped 
' celery. Salt the celery a bit also. Have 
ready cream heated, but not boiled, and 
pour it over the whole. Serve it as hot as 
possible, and rejoice in the fact that you have 
demonstrated how divine a thing an oyster 
may be made. 
Oyater Pie It 's a thousand pities that everybody 
does n't know how to make good puflF paste, 
for without that knowledge it is impossible to 
make a good oyster pie ; but in case you are an 
adept at puff paste making, just try concocting 
one some fine day. Line a pie dish with the 
paste and fill it with uncooked rice; butter 
the paste that covers the edge of the dish and 
lay a cover of puff paste over the pie ; press 
the edges together a bit and trim them neatly. 
Meanwhile prepare a quart of oysters by 
draining them from their liquor and chopping 
them fine. Mix a teaspoonful of cornstarch 



I GO A~MARKETING 147 

in a very little cold milk^ and pour over 
slowly half a pint of boiling milk or cream ; 
when it is thick and smooth add to it an ounce 
of butter. Season the oysters with salt and 
pepper, and stir them into the mixture; 
simmer for five minutes. When the pie-crust 
is done remove it from the oven, take off the 
top crust, turn out all the rice and fill the dish 
with the oysters; put on the cover again, and 
set in the oven to get thoroughly hot 

They do say the recollection of an oyster 
pie so made is one of the sweetest echoes to 
start when memory plays a tune on the heart, 
even though one lives to be as old as Methu- 
selah. 

And now let me tell you of a way to pre- Phkied 
pare oysters so that they may come under the ^y^^^"^ 
head of stand-bys, so dear to every house- 
keeper. Take two quarts of oysters and put 
them into a porcelain-lined saucepan with 
their own liquor strained, half a grated nut- 
meg, a teaspoonful of salt, a little cayenne, 
and half a pint of strong vinegar. Then into 
a muslin bag put half a teaspoontiil of cloves, 
two blades of mace, a teaspoonful of allspice, 
and two bay leaves ; put this in with the 
oysters. Let them cook very slowly, stirring 



148 I GO A-MARKETING 

all the while with a wooden spoon. As soon 
as they come to a boil pour them into an 
earthenware jar. When thoroughly cold they 
are ready to serve ; if they are well covered in 
a cool place they can easily be kept for a 
week or even longer. 



Of late years, when the subject of home- 
made preserves and pickles has been referred 
to in my hearing, I have been wont to assume 
a very superior and quite top-lofty air, and to 
remark in a know-it-all tone of voice : " Oh, 
life's too short for me to bother with any- 
thing like that ; give me the fruits and vege- 
tables and all other edibles that one can buy 
preserved in tin or glass the year round; 
they're better than home-made nine times out 
of ten, they cost no more in the end, and 
there's slight necessity for guesswork when 
you are to open a can as to the condition of 
its contents." Sometimes, if I had a very 
tractable audience, this would end all discus- 
sion for the time being. At others it would 
fairly set the advocates of domestic preserving 
by their ears, and then you may be sure they 



I GO A-MARKETING 149 

defended their cause in good earnest. But 
they never induced me to go in for anything 
of the sort Still, I now have on hand a very 
fair array of jars and bottles and tumblers 
filled with jellies and jams and pickles, and 
they are home-made, and they are old- 
fashioned and I am proud of them. And 
I'll tell you how it happened. Out in the 
country, three weeks or so ago, I was passing 
a farm-house where the door opening into the 
kitchen stood wide open, and through that 
open door came a fragrant breath that called 
to mind numberless sweet 'woodsy smells. 
There was in it a suggestion of sweet fern, a 
reminder of bayberry, a hint of sassafras and 
a distinct likeness of grapevine blossoms. 
And this divine odor was conjured up, I 
learned, by the stewing of grapes — wild grapes, 
of course ; the cultivated varieties being quite 
out of it when it comes to preserving. That 
settled it. Within twenty-four hours from 
that time there was issuing from my kitchen 
an odor of wild grapes a-stewing. 

To go into particulars, I was making grape Qrape Jam 
jam. I weighed the grapes, and to every 
pound I allowed three-quarters of a pound 
of sugar. Then I squeezed the pulp but of 



I50 I GO A-MARKETING 

the skins, putting the pulp in one bowl and 
the skins in another. The sugar with a 
quarter of its quantity of water was boiled 
in a preserving kettle till it was quite clear. 
Then was added to it the pulp of the grapes 
which were boiled ever so slowly for twenty 
minutes — when they were rubbed through a 
hair sieve and put back on the stove, with 
the skins added to them. Then they 
were boiled until the skins filled and looked 
good and plump. And when they were quite 
cooled I put them into jars covered tightly 
to keep out the air. Next winter I shall de-* 
pend upon this jam to help me out at many 
a luncheon with hot buttered toast or with 
waffles. And I Ve a strong notion that it 
won't play me false. 
QuinoB You know how one word leads to another. 
Well, I find that one preserve leads to an- 
other just as surely. After making the grape 
jam I was determined to try my hand at 
quinces — at quince marmalade. And it turned 
out such a success that I offer the recipe for 
your use if you like to try it. Peel and cut 
into thin slices four pounds of quinces, put 
them into a preserving kettle, with half their 
quantity of peeled and sliced sweet apples. 



Mannalade 



I GO A-MARKETING 151 

two quarts of water and the juice of a lemon. 
Cover the kettle and let the contents boil 
quickly till softened ; then put in three pounds 
of crushed sugar loaf, and stir over the fire 
while it boils slowly for twenty minutes. Take 
the kettle from the fire, pour the marmalade 
into jars, and when it is cool tie brandied 
papers over the tops. I shall find many uses 
for this sweet, I &ncy, and some day when I 
am quite put to it to know what to have for 
dessert, I shall just have the simplest sort of 
a bread pudding, and for a sauce some of this 
quince marmalade. 

And having made the marmalade, I find QuinoB Jelly 
that no reasonable excuse exists for not mak- 
ing quince jelly, because the parings can be 
used along with more of the fruit. Core the 
whole fruit and put this with the parings into 
a stewpan with just as much water as will 
cover them; stew them gently till they are 
tender, but not red. Strain the juice from 
the quinces without pressing them, measure it, 
and for each cupful allow an equal quantity 
of crushed loaf sugar. Pour the juice into a 
preserving pan and boil it for twenty minutes, 
then add the sugar and boil until reduced to 
the consistency of jelly, stirring it well all the 



15^ I GO A-MARKETING 

time. Strain through a jelly bag and pour 
into small jelly tumblers. And this you know 
is going to be not only a toothsome bit, but 
if I put it into a pretty and suitable dish and 
set it in just the right place on my luncheon 
or dinner table, it will be a thing of beauty. 
Plum Jam I 'm feeling rather proud, too, of my suc- 
cess with plum jam. It really strikes me as 
being delicious, and from the favored few who 
have been allowed to " taste " it, I have heard 
very flattering things. So you shall receive this 
recipe also. Have ready say twelve pounds 
of large ripe plums peeled and divided into 
halves ; crack their stones, blanch the kernels 
and pound them in a mortar. Put the par- 
ings and cracked stones into a pan with three 
quarts of water. Boil this until it is reduced 
one-half, and then strain it through a fine 
wire sieve. Put the fruit into a preserving 
pan with the strained liquor and pounded 
kernels and twelve pounds of crushed loaf 
sugar. Cook over a slow fire until it is re- 
duced to a stiff jam, then turn it into jars 
and let it stand till quite cold, sift into 
each jar a layer of powdered sugar, cover with 
rounds of paper dipped in brandy, tie securely 
and put away. Some foggy morning spread 



I GO A-MARKETING 153 

a little of this jam on some toasted muffins 
for breakfast, have some English break&st 
tea, and play you are in " Lunnun." 

Really, you know, I should n't feel that I Brandied 
had done the right thing by you if, after ^''""* 
recommending that jams be covered by bran- 
died papers I should omit to say something 
of plums preserved in brandy. They make 
a dainty tidbit, serve them when you will — 
morning, noon, or night. You don't want to 
use plums that are any more than ripe; in 
fact, if they're not much more than half-ripe 
it will be quite as well. Say you have eight 
pounds of them ; prick them all over and put 
over the fire in cold water. As soon as the 
water boils and the fruit rises to the surface 
take out with a skimmer and lay them in a 
pan of ice water. Then make a clear syrup 
of two pounds of loaf sugar and a pint of 
water. Put in the plums and let them 
boil up just once; and let them stand 
in the syrup over night. The next day 
take them out of the syrup, boil this 
once, put in the plums and let them 
boil just once and let them stand over night 
once more in the syrup. Repeat this opera- 
tion the next day and the following day, then 



Peaches 



154 I GO A-MARKETING 

drain the plums and put them into bottles. 
Boil the syrup till it will almost candy, and 
when quite cold add to it three-fourths of 
its own quantity of the best brandy you feel 
that you can afford, mix thoroughly with the 
syrup, strain it and pour over the plums. 
Cork the bottles securely. 
Brandied But if it *s peaches that you want to see in 
brandy, you go about it in this way: Split 
the peaches in halves and boil them in a 
syrup such as is used for the plums. Boil 
them two minutes only, then take them out 
and remove their skins, put them back in the 
syrup to simmer for five minutes; take 
the pan off and leave the peaches in it till the 
next day. Then drain and arrange them 
carefully in jars. Boil the syrup down 
and mix with it an equal quantity of white 
brandy and when quite cold pour it over the 
peaches. Cover the jars tightly. And it's 
not for me to tell you when to use them, 
— because the using of brandied peaches soon 
becomes a fixed habit, and it's pretty hard to 
be able to tell when not to use them. 



Why is it that housekeepers, the land over, 
with excellent reputations as ^^good man- 



I GO A-MARKETING 155 

agers/' see in an apple only three possibilities^ Appie% in 
to wit: apple pie, apple sauce and baked ^^^'^^ 
apples, when by the aid of a vegetable spoon, 
such as is used for preparing Parisienne 
potatoes, the apples may be scooped out into 
balls, cooked in a syrup flavored with vanilla, 
served hot with a sprinkling of finely chopped 
pistachios over all, and so served be worthy a 
place on the table of the veriest gourmet? 
Hardly a whit more trouble involved, you 
see, or expense, for that matter, than in the 
preparation of ** apple sauce," and yet how 
much more appetizing and wholly satisfactory ! 
Again, if you want to idealize baked apples, 
have them peeled and cored, then boil in a 
flavored syrup till tender, but firm, and with 
sugar and burnt almond scattered over them 
set in oven to acquire a delicate brown. 
Garnish when serving with bits of marmalade 
or jelly. 

The^rying of apples successfully is a tick- Fried Apples 
lish matter, it must be admitted, but if the 
fruit is perfectly sound when peeled, cored, 
and quartered, the fat piping hot, with only a 
few pieces dropped in at a time, if, as I say, 
all these conditions prevail and your fried 
apples be not a success, then rest assured 



1 

4 



• 



156 I GO A-MARKETING 

there is some witchcraft at work and you are 
in no wise to blame. The pity will be none 
the less, however, for nothing so complements 
delicious little pork chops for a luncheon dish 
as apples so prepared. And pork chops, by 
the way, are quite to be desired these cool 
autumn days. 
Apple Salad Nothing can exceed the joy-giving proper- 
ties of an apple salad if it be rightly concocted. 
For myself I prefer that there shall be a 
judicious mixture of celery with the apple, 
that the pepper, salt, and oil be added with a 
sparing hand, and that without fail lemon 
juice shall be used in place of vinegar. It 
hardly seems necessary to say, and yet one 
never knows just what is the proper stopping 
place in giving advice, that a steel knife must 
not be allowed to touch the apples, else what 
might have been and should be a thing of 
beauty is a damaging blight to an otherwise 
perfectly appointed table. This kind of salad 
is in its rightful place when accompanying 
any variety of black duck, and just now wild 
ducks are of prime flavor. The marketmen 
know this, but I find that not many of them 
know why these birds are to be in their best 
estate for the next two months, when the 



\! 

I GO A-MARKETING 157  

m 

reason as explained to me by sportsmen is 
both sound and plausible, namely, that now 
the birds are getting their feed where it is the 
sweetest and best, along the shores of fresh 
ponds, but later when Jack Frost shall have 
done his perfect work they must hie them to 
the salt marshes for sustenance, and very soon 
thereafter the fadt of their changed diet is 
made manifest to those who dine from them. 

One can hardly talk of ways and means for Peara in 
treating apples and leave unsaid one or two J^""''^" 

. . Syrup 

directions for serving pears so that they shall 
be quite good enough to do duty upon any 
occasion. Have you ever tried peeling them, 
splitting them in two lengthwise, scooping out 
the core, cooking till tender in a syrup 
strongly flavored with vanilla, and then drain- 
ing them, filling the hollows left by removing 
the cores with powdered macaroons ? If you 
have, then you know how to complete the 
pretty task ; if not, then I will tell you that 
after the macaroons have been added the two 
parts of a pear must be put together, the 
pears laid on their side alternately with tiny 
rice croquettes which have been coated with 
apricot marmalade or any preferred jam. 
You may take the syrup in which the pears 



158 I GO A-MARKETING 

were boiled and adding to it a little whipped 
cream pour it over the whole. My word for 
it, if the early part of your feast has consisted 
of such delicacies as nightingales' tongues and 
plovers' eggs, pears so prepared will seem 
a fitting dessert, but if, as is more probable, 
you have dined from a perfectly broiled 
chicken (and they were never better and less 
expensive than now), you will find this dish 
of pears quite the crowning beauty of your 
dinner that it deserves to be. 
Stuffed And while we are on the subject of cooking 
Stewed pg^rs I will tell you of another way in which 
I have always seen them find favor. After 
they are cooked and the core scooped out I 
fill them with a mixture of several kinds of 
fruit, finely chopped, laying them on a shallow 
dish of rice and cream, pouring syrup over 
them. 
Pears Now for another way of cooking pears as 

pears : let me suggest that you get inexpen- 
sive, oh very inexpensive claret in which to 
stew pears the next time you see fit to have 
them. Stew them till tender, then take them 
out and add to the claret what sugar you 
think is needed to have it sweet enough when 



I GO A-MARKETING 159 

it is boiled down to about one-half the original 
quantity. Pour over the pears and let cool 
before serving. Sublimate this idea, if you 
see fit, by sprinkling in chopped almonds or 
chopped pistachios or any other little pleasantry 
that occurs to your inventive genius, — that 
is, if you We an inventive genius that is to be 
trusted. 



Suppose you find, on one of your trips to 
market this month, as you probably will, that 
poultry is very low in price, won't you give 
this suggestion a trial ? Cut a chicken up as 
for a ragout, and boil it in as little water as 
will cover it, seasoning the water with a small 
onion, salt, white pepper, and a gill of sherry 
wine. When the chicken is almost tender Fried 
enough, drain it from the liquor and let it get p^'f**''' 

® . ^ . ° Italian Style 

perfectly cold. Meanwhile have in a stewpan 
half a gill of olive oil, with a pinch of minced 
onion and a little salt and pepper. When this 
is quite hot and the chicken quite cold, cook 
the chicken in it to a delicate brown. Dish 
the chicken when it is browned evenly, and 
pour over it a sauce made by adding a gill of 
the stock in which it was boiled to the oil in 



Tomatoes 



i6o I GO A-MARKETING 

the stewpan, thickening it all with the yolks 
of two eggs. This makes a most deli- 
cious dish and is well worth the trial. The 
frying in oil gives it its distinctive flavor, and 
makes it very different from fowl fried in 
butter, which is in France always called 
poulet sautee, to mark the difference. 

With And this same dish can be varied a little by 
using tomatoes with the chicken. After the 
chicken has been fried in the oil, lay it on 
fried tomatoes, and then pour the sauce over 
all. Have the tomatoes as large as possible 
and not too ripe ; slice them, dust them with 
salt and pepper, and fry very, very slowly in 
a little oil till they are cooked ; but don't let 
the slices get out of shape. 
RooBt Duck If you think you would prefer a roast of 

uftth poultry, do try ducks to be had now. Roast 
8aui^ them in any way that experience has taught 
you is the best, but when it comes to making 
the sauce for them, let me have a word to say. 
Mince two or three slices of bacon and a 
small onion and fry together for five 
minutes ; add to them the juice of an orange 
and a wineglassfiil of port wine, the drippings 
from the pan in which the ducks were roasted, 
and a seasoning of salt and pepper. It's an 



I GO A-MARKETING i6i 



Devilled 
Tomatoes 



ideal September dish, that 's what it is. And ^J^'i[^f 
you might accompany it or follow it with 
another that is particularly seasonable, namely, 
broiled devilled tomatoes. First you mash 
the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, then you 
mix with them a saltspoonful of salt, one tea- 
spoonful each of powdered sugar and mustard, 
and as much cayenne as your taste calls for ; 
then stir in three ounces of melted butter, and 
when all the ingredients are well blended add 
three tablespoonfuls of vinegar. At this stage 
put the mixture over the fire to reach the 
boiling point, and stir in two well-beaten eggs. 
When it has thickened a bit stand in hot 
water on the stove to keep warm while you 
give a little attention to the tomatoes. These 
must be ripe and firm. Cut them in half-inch 
slices, broil over a clear fire, place on a 
hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and there 
you are. This makes a really appetizing 
breakfast dish as well as a savory dinner 
course. Try it some morning, having with it 
crisp broiled bacon and some dainty rice muf- 
fins, and you will find yourself considerably 
above par with your household for the rest of 
that day at least. 

And in a day or so follow up the good im- 



II 



i6a I GO A-MARKETING 



BroiM pression by having at luncheon tomatoes pre- 



TomatoBM 
on Toaat 



pared in this way : Cut some round slices of 
bread and fry them delicately in butter till 
they are brown. Slice firm, ripe tomatoes to 
match the sizes of the bread slices ; broil the 
tomatoes just a wee bit, and then lay a slice 
on each piece of the French bread. Season 
them with pepper and salt, scatter grated 
Parmesan cheese over them, spread them 
with a layer of fine bread-crumbs moistened 
with melted butter. Brown in a hot oven 
and serve piping hot. And if the man o' the 
house is the right sort you will get a vote of 
thanks in the shape of a big bunch of the 
earliest and brightest chrysanthemums to be 
found in town. 
CBtBry and Have you ever made a salad of apples and 
ppesaiad ^^jgjy? Use sour apples cut into dice- 
shaped pieces, and cut the celery into 
half-inch bits. Arrange in the salad dish 
in this way: A layer of the apple, then a 
sprinkling of capers ; next a layer of the cel- 
ery, and over this three or four olives cut in 
thin slices, and so on till the dish is full. 
Make a dressing of a saltspoonjful of salt, a 
good dash of cayenne pepper, the juice of a 
lemon, and six tablespoonfiils of olive oil. 



1 



I GO A-MARKETING 163 

Pour this over the apples and celery about 
ten minutes before serving. Be sure that 
you let the youngsters have all of this 
salad that they want, for it will be hard to 
concoct a more wholesome and healthful one. 

And I am going to suggest a variation or Apple Sauoe 
two of the apple sauce theme for your ap- 'J'^^ Orange 
proval. Go ahead and get your apples ready 
as you always have, and when you put them 
on the stove to cook add to them the peel of 
an orange. When the apples are quite cooked 
press them through a sieve, add brown sugar 
to them to taste, and the juice of one orange 
to a pint of apple. Put this on the stove to 
cook for about two minutes, and then put 
aside to cool before serving. Or, stew your with 
apples till they are tender, press them through ^^'pp*^ 
a sieve, add to them the amount of sugar they 
require, and when they are quite cold beat up 
with them lightly some well-whipped cream 
— a pint of cream after it is whipped to a 
quart of apple sauce. 

Now, if it comes to pass that neither or 
both of these ways of making apple sauce 
finds favor with you, you will certainly give 
an attentive ear to a hint on the subject of 
pears. For one of the daintiest and most 



r 



164 I GO A-MARKETING 

Pear Salad seasonable of desserts is a pear salad. Know 
how it is made ? Have the pears quite ripe> 
cut them in thin slices, lay them in a glass 
dish, sprinkle powdered sugar on them, 
pour over them a glass of brandy which has 
in it a dozen drops or so of lemon juice, and 
let stand on ice for about fifteen minutes 
before serving. It is a good idea also to have 
the pears on ice for two or three hours before 
they are sliced. 
Stuffed Another delectable dessert made from pears 
Pears is called " stuffed pears." Cut them in two 
and scoop out the core with a vegetable 
spoon. Cook the pears very gently in a little 
syrup till they are quite tender. Drain them, 
and have ready any kind of marmalade into 
which you have stirred chopped almonds. 
Stuff the pears with this and put them together 
in their original shape. Have in a dish a 
thin layer of boiled rice, over which you have 
spread a little whipped cream. Arrange the 
pears in a circle on the rice, and fill the centre 
with the same kind of marmalade as that used 
for stuffing the pears. 

And peaches may be prepared in just the 
same way ; but you may add just a few of the 
kernels of the peaches to the syrup while you 






I GO A-MARKETING 165 

are stewing them, which will give them a de- Stujfed 
lightfiil flavor. Indeed, I think it is always ''*"^*** 
an improvement to use some of the kernels 
when cooking peaches for any way of serving. 
In tarts the kernels should be chopped as 
finely as possible. 

Peach cream makes a dainty and delicious Peach Cream 
dessert. Have a dozen ripe peaches, peel, 
removie the stones, and then stew them 
with half a dozen of the kernels in a syrup 
made of half a pound of sugar and half a pint 
of water. When the peaches are quite soft 
press them through a sieve. Mix with the 
pulp one pint of cream, whipped, and one 
ounce of dissolved gelatine. Wet a fancy 
mould with cold water, pour in the preparation, 
and leave till firm. Unmould when serving. 

To be sure, there 's no way in the world that 
a peach is so delightful as when eaten from the 
hand, but it must be the very best sort of a 
peach to be eaten in this way, and the best 
sorts just now may be a thought expensive. 
That is the reason I have suggested ways for 
cooking them, because one can use an inferior 
quality and yet get perfectly satisfactory re- 
sults. And that is n't possible with most of 
life's commodities. 



OCTOBER 

" FiU up thi bowif thiu^fiU it high — 
Fill all the glasses there^fir nvhy 
Should e^ery creature driuk but I; 
Why^ moM of morals^ tell me vohj f ** 



WHEN all the world adopts the 
Pythagorean menu as its standard 
of good living then I will bestir 
myself and concoct the daintiest dishes possi- 
ble from those '^ foods that are freshly chem- 
icalized by the sun's rays,** and will gladly 
give you the benefit of my experiences. But 
I *m no reformer, and until that day of uni- 
versal self-denial arrives I will continue the 
tenor of my way along the old line, and try 
to idealize commonplace, every-day viands 
into dishes that pique the appetite, and make 
of eating a delicate delight A very material 
vocation, it is true, but as matters stand a 
highly useful one. Eh ? 

Now there are smelts, as plump and inviting 
a fish as can be found in the market, and at 
their best, too. But how many housekeepers 
are there who ever think of serving them in 
any way but just simply fried ? Frequently, 



I GO A-MARKETING 167 

of course, they do serve them with a tartar 
sauce, but nine times out of ten it would be 
better for all concerned if the sauce were ne- 
glected or forgotten, or upset, or anything that 
would keep it away from the table. 

The next time you are to have smelts try Baked 
cooking them in this way : After they are ^'^^^^ 
cleaned have them wiped till perfectly dry, 
and lay them in a baking dish; over 
them pour a wineglass of white wine, add 
a sprinkling of salt and pepper, accord- 
ing to your judgment, half a dozen whole 
fresh mushrooms, and pour over them one- 
half a pint of Spanish sauce. Sprinkle ever so 
lightly with bread-crumbs and a little warmed 
butter, and bake in a hot oven for twenty 
minutes. This is the way you would prepare 
a dozen or fifteen of the fish ; of course for a 
larger number the amount of seasoning, etc., 
would be increased proportionately. Garnish 
the smelts before serving with thinly sliced 
lemon, each slice sprinkled with chopped 
parsley. 

Or try broiling them, if you like. Split BroiM 
the fish, using only the largest size, down the Jj^J^'** 
backs; remove the backbones, wipe well 
and then rub them with a little oil and 



i68 I GO A-MARKETING 

season with salt and a bit of white pepper. 
Broil in a double broiler for three minutes 
on each side^ over a hot fire. Have spread 
on the bottom of the dish in which they 
are to be served a layer of Bearnaise sauce ; 
arrange the smelts carefully and daintily on 
this and sprinkle over them a scanty bit of 
chopped parsley. You'll find this far and 
away ahead of the eternal ^' fried smelts and 
sauce tartare." 
FrM Smelts But if you really feel that you must fry 
with Parsley them, then go about it in this way : First of 
all, fry some thinly sliced bacon and in its fat 
fry to a delicate brown the smelts which you 
have previously dipped in sweet, rich cream, 
and then dredged with flour to make a 
thick paste around them. Serve garnished 
with the bacon and with fried parsley. The 
frying of parsley is as you know, a somewhat 
ticklish job; it must be perfectly dry, put 
into a frying basket and then plunged into hot 
fat for just a few minutes don't have the fat 
too. hot — this is where you must think and 
act simultaneously — or the parsley will lose 
its color, and then you will have to begin all 
over again. After it is put on the dish squeeze 
a few drops of lemon juice over it. My word 



1 



I GO A-MARKETING 169 

for it you will find this an acceptable dish, 
whether it is prepared for breakfast, luncheon 
or dinner. 

I didn't mean you to understand that I Biueflah^ 
considered smelts to be the only fish in the J[^"'P<''* 
market at present; I simply wanted to call 
your attention to them as being as good as 
any other, and a good deal better than they, 
themselves, are at any other time of year. 

Bluefish are good now, too ; they are ex- 
cellent, really, and a bluefish at its best is hard 
to beat. Have you ever tried cooking them 
in the oven ? Have them split, you know, 
as for broiling, then put them into a well- 
greased baking pan. Have ready half a cupful 
of melted butter with the juice of an onion in 
it and likewise the juice of a lemon, with a 
reasonable amount of salt and of cayenne 
pepper. Before the fish goes into the oven 
moisten it well with the prepared butter, and 
baste with the butter every ten minutes while 
it is in the oven. When it is of a good even 
brown it is done. Now, don't serve with the 
bluefish cooked in this way potatoes of any 
sort or kind. Have cucumbers, hothouse, of 
course, and have them fried. Cut them into 
thick slices and remove the seeds ; then soak 



I70 I GO A-MARKETING 

them in equal parts of ice-water and vinegar, 
well salted, for one hour. Take them out, 
drain and wipe dry and fry in boiling lard 
until a light brown. They are not only good 
when served with bluefish cooked in this way, 
but they are appetizing bits to accompany 
pork or lamb chops when you are serving 
them with a brown sauce. 

So much for to-day's fish story. As for 
meat, anybody can get good meats at any time 
of the year if they will go to a man who knows 
how to cut them, and won't insist on dickering 
with him about the price. 

Domestic ducks are now in good condition. 
You might get one of them and try preparing 
it in some new way to be used, if it's a suc- 
cess, on Thanksgiving Day. Say stuffing it 
with mushrooms ; use one can of mushrooms 
to three heaping cupfuls of stale breadcrumbs; 
one-half a cupful of melted butter, with salt 
and pepper. If the stuffing appears to be too 
dry moisten it with a bit of milk. Split the 
mushrooms and use all their liquor ; if the 
duck is too small to require the full amount 
you may add some of the mushrooms to the 
giblet gravy to be served with it 

And there is plenty of material in market 



I GO A-MARKETING 171 

for green salads ; there are celery and lettuce, 
the standbys ; watercress, escarolle, romaine, 
and chicory. Try this latter some time 
soon, using a plain dressing of oil, vinegar, 
salt and pepper for it, with bits of Roquefort 
cheese sprinkled over it. If any among you 
object to eating this cheese because of its odor, 
rest easy, for you may have at hand a counter- 
acting force in the Bar-le-Duc currants. They 
do, as you probably are aware, put the finish- 
ing touch to almost any sort of dinner, but 
when particularly strong cheese has been 
served they are nothing short of a godsend. 



To the ordinary reader the name of Bon- 
toux conveys nothing ; to the Parisian of a 
generation or two ago it was synonymous 
with all that was delightful in the way of food 
and drink. The shop over which Madame 
Bontoux presided remains in the Rue de 
TEchelle, but Madame, herself, has been 
gathered to her fore&thers. Originally she 
had been a cordon bleu, and in the early 
forties opened a small establishment in the 
Rue Montesquieu, which establishment, if 
I mistake not, is mentioned in Sue's 



172 I GO A-MARKETING 

'* Seven Cardinal Sins." Thence she moved 
to the Rue de TEchelle, where she died. 
Acting on the whim of the moment, she 
would sell her wares only to those whom she 
liked, and those whom she did not like might 
ofFer her a hundred times their value in vain. 
The Rue de TEchelle being near the Comedie 
Fran9aise, Rachel, who was a gourmet of the 
first water, frequently went to the shop after 
rehearsals. One afternoon she went in while 
one of the shopmen was busy packing a 
hamper for Nicholas I. Among the delica- 
cies there were a dozen magnificent quails on 
a skewer. '^ I want those,'' said Rachel in 
the imperious way she adopted now and then. 
"You will have to want, my little woman," 
replied Madame, shaking her head in her 
enormous bonnet, which seemed a fixture ; no 
one had ever seen her without it Then 
Rachel toned down. " I will give you ten 
francs apiece for them," she said. " Not for 
ten crowns apiece," came the retort, and in a 
voice which left the great actress no doubt as 
to its meaning. 

Rachel was disappointed, and rose from her 
chair to go. Just when she had reached the 
door an idea flashed on her. She turned 



I GO A-MARKETING 173 



round and began to recite the famous lines 
from Corneille's " Horace." The effect was 
electrical on the shopman, who dropped the 
quails. Madame Bontoux was not so easily 
impressed. She kept shaking her head just 
as if to say " You may save yourself the 
trouble, my girl ; " but all of a sudden, when 
Rachel brought out the last line — 

" Moi seuk en itre cause et mourir de plaisiry* 

she jumped up. " Give her the dozen quails 
and a pheasant besides." Wonderful to 
relate, the enormous bonnet had got pushed 
on one side. 

Now, there 's a very pretty question to be 
discussed at your dinner table o' Sunday 
night: Were those birds i bon marchi for 
Rachel, or did Madame Bontoux, in the 
language of to-day, "get the best of the 
bargain ?" 

When you go to market in search of game 
in these days, and the marketman, leading you 
in the direction of the ice-box wherein he 
keeps his choicest wares, says, " Look at 'em ; 
ain't they beauties ? " you will be quite safe in 
acquiescing by a plain yea or a nod, but do 
not go to the extent of ordering a dozen quail. 



174 I GO A-MARKETING 

or woodcock, or snipe, or any other game 
bird, in fact, until you have ascertained if 
the legs are smooth and the quill feathers 
soft, which facts prove them to be young 
birds* Furthermore, be sure that the 
breasts are hard, firm, and well-covered with 
flesh, for this will show them to be in good 
condition. 

Once the birds are under your roof-tree 
see to it that the cook does not draw the 
trail from the woodcock or snipe, for by all 
gourmets this is reckoned a great delicacy, 
and, by the way, though, of course, it is a 
matter of common knowledge, the heads of 
these birds are the most delicious morsels 
of all. Another point to be borne in mind 
is that when preparing game for cooking it 
should never be washed inside, but merely 
well wiped with a clean cloth. 

Partridges, grouse and quail are of so fine 
a flavor that it is little short of a criminal 
Toast for act to serve them in any way but roasted 
Game q^ broiled. If they are to be broiled and 
served on toast, then a delicious way of 
preparing the toast is to have the giblets 
boiled till they are so tender that they can 
be pounded to a paste with a little of the 



I GO A-MARKETING 175 



water in which they were boiled, and then, 
when mixed with an equal amount of butter, 
spread over the toast. This giblet butter 
may be varied to suit a variety of tastes. 
A little chopped parsley may be added, or 
a squeeze of lemon juice, or both, in which 
case a complementary dash of cayenne must 
be added. The meat of the partridge is so 
dry that it is well to serve with it a sauce 
made of melted butter, slightly seasoned 
with onion and a dash of white wine, or 
a tartar sauce is really excellent with broiled 
partridge. 

If these birds — partridges, grouse, and Sauoefor 
quail — are to be roasted, the garnishing in ^^^"^9^ 
either case must consist of seasoned watercress. 
With the partridge is served a bread sauce, 
but it's a custom as old as the hills, and 
for that very reason I have tried many ex- 
periments to find a sauce more to my liking. 
I have found it, and this is the way I pre- 
pare it : half a pint of clear stock, preferably 
white, seasoned with onion juice, a bunch 
of parsley, a bay-leaf and four cloves, strained 
through a napkin before using. The birds 
will be much better if an ounce of butter is 



176 I GO A-MARKETING 

placed inside of them before cooking, and if 
they are occasionally basted with melted 
butter during the process of roasting. 
Roaated Grouse need no sauce, especially if before 
they are put into the oven they are stuffed 
with one slice of bread each which has been 
toasted and dipped in Madeira wine. They 
may be larded, or barded, or basted with 
melted butter while roasting, if it is thought 
likely to improve their flavor. 

RooMted Beware of cooks who assure you that they 
^"^^ know how to roast quail until you have seen 
their skill put to the test. It is a failing 
common to too many cooks to over-roast 
these dainty little birds. Fourteen to sixteen 
minutes in a hot oven is quite long enough 
to cook them to the point favored by epi- 
curean palates. They should be served on 
bread sliced and fried, and with them, if 
desired, a very little of the clear sauce above 
recommended for partridges. 

Any of the pieces left from these birds 
roasted may be daintily served with a may- 
onnaise dressing, and you may be willing to 
assert that the last state of that bird was 
better than the first 



I GO A-MARKETING 177 



Velvet Soup. 

Sherry, Amontillado. 

Baked halibut with Parmesan chee$e. 

Roasted duck with olives. 

Burgundy, Romanee. 

Cauliflower with bread crumbs. 

Lettuce and cucumber salad. 

Macaroon charlotte. 

Toasted crackers. 

Cream cheese. Coffee. 

It was with the intention of preparing a 
dinner according to the above menu that I 
went about my duties ^' all on a market day/' 
for it seemed to me upon looking it over to 
be a dainty repast for four people, and 
one wherein neither parsimony nor extrava- 
gance held the trick hand. And a safe middle 
course in one's daily regimen tends quite as 
much to health and prosperity in individual 
and nation as does the same policy in seem- 
ingly weightier matters. 

The velvet soup is easy of accomplishment, Velvet Soup 
as one need only to have a quart of some 
simple white stock on hand, made from veal 
or poultry remnants, into which is stirred the 
minced red part of four carrots seasoned with 
pepper and salt and stewed till tender in but- 
ter, two tablespoonfuls of tapioca which has 

13 



Halibut with 
Parmesan 



178 I GO A-MARKETING 

been soaked for four hours in cold water, and 
then let the whole boil for nearly an hour 
before straining and serving. It is not only 
easily prepared, but it is easily digested, as a 
soup should always be which precedes a rather 
rich fish course similar to that given above. 
BakBd About a pound and a half of halibut, at 
eighteen cents the pound, will be required, 
and it should be boiled till tender enough to 
Hake lightly ; then, if you have a rather deep 
dish, with a border of mashed potato about 
the inside, all will go smoothly. Into the 
bottom of the dish put a layer of white sauce 
made of half a pint of boiling milk, three 
ounces of butter and a little salt, thickened 
with flour; sprinkle in flakes of the fish, 
then a layer of the sauce, adding a little milk 
if it promises to be too dry, and so on till the 
dish is full, having a layer of sauce on top. 
Then scatter grated Parmesan over all, and 
brown to a tempting shade. 

With ducklings tender and toothsome, as 
they should be in this month, it is plainly 
seen that the next course is capable of being a 
piice de risistance at a far more stately affair 
even than the one which we are considering. 
But if they are roasted in the ordinary way 



I GO A-MARKETING 179 

known to every housekeeper in the land, 
stuffed with bread crumbs, highly seasoned, 
and have a giblet sauce, quite an extraordinary 
flavor will be given them if, just before serv- 
ing, half a pint of pitted and quartered olives RooMtedDuok 
are added to the sauce. It's only a trifling "'^^Oiiuea 
addition to the old way, you see, but the im- 
provement is so great you will wonder 
that every one does n't know of the gastronom- 
ical harmony existing between duck and olives. 
Now, the flavor of the ducks is so rich 
and altogether satisfying that it takes only 
the simplest and mildest-flavored vegetable to 
complement this course. And nothing will 
answer the purpose better than cauliflower. 
If they are cut into pieces of uniform size, 
they cook in a much more satisfactory 
manner, and they should boil as gently 
as possible; do not add the salt to the 
water till they are nearly tender. When 
taking them up, drain well, and over all pour 
melted butter thickened with browned bread- 
crumbs, and send to table. I fancy you will 
find them more to your liking served in this 
way than in the old rutty way of so many 
cooks, namely, with a white sauce, which 
varies in diflTerent households from a fair 



i8o I GO A-MARKETING 



quality of flour paste to a very rich and fairly- 
cloying concoction of cream and melted 
butter. 

There is nothing like a simple salad to 
prepare one's palate for the sweets which come 
at the last, and with hothouse cucumbers now 
in evidence and lettuce always with us, the 
making of a salad is a delight in more ways 
than one. It is not so many years ago that 
we had to pay from thirty-five to fifty cents 
each for cucumbers at this season of the year, 
but the large number of cucumber hothouses 
near every city is fast bringing this desirable 
vegetable to a state where it will be known 
as an all-the-year-round commodity. 
Maomroon There are a good many people, and the 
number is increasing, who declare that to them 
a dinner is finished by a bit of cheese after the 
salad, and finished quite to their satisfaction, 
too. But for those whose dinner is incom- 
plete without a bit of sweetness, I would 
recommend a macaroon charlotte made by 
lining a dish with broken macaroons and then 
filling the dish with whipped cream which has 
been sweetened and flavored to taste; adding 
to it at last half a pound of crystallized 
cherries. 



Charlotte 



I GO A-MARKETING i8i 

As to the wines, of course, it 's a matter of 
purse and principle whether or not they 
shall be served. I have suggested the kinds 
appropriate to the courses, for the reason that 
I have heard many a hostess ^' on hospitable 
thoughts intent" wonder "what wine goes 
with what" 



To be sure, I went a-marketing t'other 
day, and I was able to collect a stock of 
valuable information which I came home 
prepared to dish up for the delectation of 
any who chose to read and profit by it. 
But by some chance, or mischance, it oc- 
curred to me that All-Hallows Eve is near 
at hand, and that when it comes you girls 
will be up to all sorts of pranks. Now, 
years and years ago I was a girl myself, and 
I can dimly recall that the playing of pranks 
on the fairies' anniversary night induced a 
desire for liquid refreshment, either for the 
purpose of chirking up one's spirits when the 
omens proved unfavorable or for helping out 
the general merry-making when the signs 
foretold bliss. 

And a drink that seemed to me at that 



i82 I GO A-MARKETING 

Ciaret Tipple time apropos of either event we used to make 
by slicing half a dozen juicy apples and three 
lemons as a starting point. Then we would 
lay them alternately in a large bowl, sprink- 
ling each layer plentifully with sugar, and 
over all would pour a quart of claret. Then 
we would let it stand for fully six hours, pour 
it through a muslin bag, and it was ready for 
use. 

^ Hot Spiced If you desire a hot drink, and it is likely 
Ciaret ^^^^ y^^ ^jjj^ j£- ^j^^ tricks you have on hand 

call you out of doors at midnight, you might 
prepare one in this way : Have half-a-dozen 
lumps of sugar, the juice of half a lemon, four 
whole allspice, two whole cloves and half a 
teaspoonful of ground cinnamon in a dish; 
over it pour half a pint of claret and let it boil 
for just two minutes, stirring it all the time. 
Strain it into hot glasses and grate just a little 
nutmeg on top as you serve it. At the first 
sip the good qualities of this libation will pre- 
sent themselves to you. 
Hot Ciaret And for an encore you might vary it a little 
Egg-nog IjJ^ Jj^ ^jj^ ^^^ . g^^. together two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, the juice of half a lemon, 
half a teaspoonful of mixed spices and half a 
pint of claret. Boil this for two minutes and 



I GO A-MARKETING 183 

then pour it over the yolks of two eggs that 
have been beaten well with a teaspoonful of 
sugar. Stir all the while that you are pouring 
the wine slowly over the eggs. Grate a little 
nutmeg over the top after you have poured 
the mixture into hot glasses. Now mind, 
don't get confused and pour the eggs into the 
wine, for that would spoil everything ; pour 
the wine over the eggs. And be thankful 
that you have lived long enough to concoct 
such a satisfying drink as this always proves 
itself to be. 

But if you feel that you must find a use for Hot Sherry 
the whites of the ^gs dissolve a tablespoonful ^QQ-nog 
of powdered sugar in half a pint of hot water, 
add to it half a pint of sherry wine and let 
this come to a boil. Meanwhile have the 
whites of the ^gs beaten to a froth and pour 
the hot mixture over them, stirring rapidly. 
Pour into hot glasses, grating a bit of nutmeg 
over the top of each. See to it that the ves- 
sel in which you boil the wine is thoroughly 
clean. You don*t want even the fidntest trace 
of a taste of anything besides the ingredients 
herein prescribed. 

An orange punch is n't just the innocent 
tipple that its name would seem to indicate. 



i84 I GO A-MARKETING 

Orange But that doesn't hinder its being a treat for 
Punch ^j^g palate. Infuse the peel of three and the 
juice of six oranges with three-quarters of a 
pound of loaf sugar in two quarts of boiling 
water for half an hour. Stnun and add to 
the juice a half pint of brandy and a liqueur 
glass of maraschino. And it is quite likely 
that you will think it needs a little more 
sugar; if so, add it. Now it may be that 
you will like this hot, or it may be that you 
will like it cold ; in the latter case cool it on 
the ice for several hours before serving or ice 
it when serving. This is also an excellent 
recipe for lemon punch — substituting lemons 
for the oranges. 
Cider Punch ^f you really long for drinks which seem 
suitable for days the ** saddest of the year," 
why then see to it that your cider jug is 
filled with sweet cider as a prerequisite, and 
go ahead. Call your first effort a cider punch. 
Peel a lemon and pour half a pint of sherry 
on the peeling ; to the juice of the lemon add 
a cupful of sugar, a little grated nutmeg and 
a quart of cider. Mix this together thorough- 
ly and then add to it the rind of the lemon 
and the sherry. Let it get perfectly cold on 
the ice, or if you are short of time ice it when 



I GO A-MARKETING 185 

serving. Now if you wish to make this punch 
a bit more insidious you can easily do so by 
adding to it a wineglass of brandy. It will 
be quite as palatable also, I think you will 
find. 

And then cider egg-nog is well worth the CidBr 
making and the drinking. Use a large glass ; ^^^'^^^^ 
beat up in it an egg and a scant teaspoonful 
of sugar ; put in half a dozen small lumps of 
ice, fill the glass with cider and grate a little 
nutm^ on top. This is not only a very 
pleasant drink, but it is an extremely whole- 
some one. It will act as a pick-me-up many 
times when one is tired or not feeling quite 
up to the mark. 

Another delicious potation that will be Quinee 
found of use at all sorts of occasions is quince '^''•'"' 
liqueur. Grate a sufficient number of quinces 
to make a quart of juice after it is squeezed 
through a jelly bag. With this juice mix a 
pound of sugar, six ounces of bitter almonds, 
bruised, a dozen whole cloves and a gill of 
brandy. Mix these all well together and set 
away in a demijohn for ten days at least. 
Then strain it through the jelly bag till it 
is perfectly clear, and bottle for use. Be- 
sides drinking this as a liqueur, you will find 



i86 I GO A-MARKETING 

that you can vary and improve a number 
of your recipes for punch by adding just a 
suspicion of it to them. 
Various Cupa At all times cups are alluring decoctions, 
don*t you think ? And there are many vari- 
eties of them. But they all begin in the same 
way. A cordial glass each of maraschino, 
benedicdne and brandy put into a quart jug, 
and then if you fill the jug with champagne 
you have champagne cup, with Rhine wine 
you have Rhine wine cup, and with cider you 
have cider cup. If you use claret you add 
a few drops of lemon juice and double the 
quantity of maraschino. 
Rhine Wine But it may be that you prefer to take your 
Seitzer R^jne ^Jne with seltzer : if so, lust half fill 
the glass with the wine and pour enough 
seltzer to fill it. Both the wine and the seltzer 
should be kept on the ice for some little time 
before using. 
Ginger If after all this array of non-temperance 
Lemonade brinks you feel that you should turn 
your attention to something milder, and 
yet can't quite make up your mind to clear 
cold water, why not try a ginger lemonade ? 
Have a teaspoonful of powdered sugar in a 
tumbler, add to it the juice of half a lemon 



I GO A-MARKETING 187 

and fill the tumbler with ginger ale that has 
been well iced. You will find this a pleasant 
change from the ordinary lemonade, and for 
many persons it serves to make ginger ale a 
deal more palatable. 

Now, if you should feel that you would 8oda 
like to serve a drink that is as innocent and ^<^^oii 
harmless as so much milk, but that when 
judged by its name alone seems to be intended, 
oh, my ! for very dissipated persons, indeed ! 
let me suggest to you a soda cocktail. Fill a 
glass with lemon soda, put into it a dash of 
raspberry syrup and on top of it a thin slice 
of orange. And, your very good health. 



NOVEMBER 



** From our onvu ulvn our joys mujtJlo*w, 
And that dear hut our home*^ 



ONCE upon a time, a somebody who 
was famous for his or her wit or 
wisdom, or for both qualities, re- 
marked that oftentimes the easiest and best 
way to get over a difficulty was to go round 
it. To my great regret, I can't give you the 
name of the author of the very pithy saying, 
neither can I tell you just what conditions 
called it forth, but it's safe to say that its 
context was a suggestion or opinion offered 
for the settling of some great big question of 
state. But, what is more to the point, I can 
be of help in showing you, I hope, how to 
make a practical application of the epigram to 
every-day affairs. Because, just as sure as we 
are living, there is always a way to go round 
if one can't get over the very toughest hands 
that one gets in life's shufHe. 

Now, there 's the servant-girl question in 
its Sunday-night aspect. It exists ; it can't 
be wiped out; and it is impossible to ignore 
it. She, or they, as the case may be, will have 



I GO A-MARKETING 189 

"the evening out," come what may, and 
guests are pretty sure to come o* Sunday 
nights. Of course you can't send them home 
supperless, and neither can you send your 
family to bed in a semi-famished condition. 
No ; you must go round the situation. And 
it's not so hard. Indeed, my last trip to 
market, which included a call at the grocer's, 
was for the express purpose of picking up 
points that would make the circuit easy for 
you. 

I 'm not going to say a word, here, about 
the chafing-dish. And I will tell you why. 
It is the custom in a large number of families 
for the man of the house to preside at the 
chafing-dish Sunday nights, and while my 
stock of book-learning is very diminutive, I 
have learned that under no circumstances is 
it wise to ofiTer suggestions to a man who 
thinks he can cook. 

Frequently it is easy to have some little 
dish left ready by the cook which needs only 
to be heated before it is served, but in nine 
households out of ten cold viands are the staple 
commodity. And the singular sameness is 
surprising and saddening. If one is in the 
habit of dropping in to " pot luck " at the 



I90 I GO A-MARKETING 

houses of one's intimesy one soon learns to 
reckon with a fair degree of certainty upon 
what will be likely to be set before one. 

Now, there are sandwiches. Once let a 
housekeeper acquire a reputation for a partic- 
ular brand of that edible^ and it 's like getting 
her to change her religion to induce her to 
try making any other sort. But it requires 
only a very little time, with a fair amount of 
common sense, to have a sandwich repertoire 
that will enable one to get through a fairly 
long season without repetitions. 
Caviare The next time you are to have caviare sand- 

Sandwiches inches, try using brown-bread, sliced as thinly 
as possible, spread with unsalted butter, and 
then with a layer of caviare and a sprinkling 
of lemon juice. And you will find them as 
good as they are uncommon. 
Oyster Then there are oyster sandwiches. Cook 

Sandwiohee ^he oysters a bit, or till they are firm, then 
when they are cool stir them into good stiff 
mayonnaise, with ar seasoning of red pepper 
and just a few capers. Spread day-old bread 
with this mixture and finish ^ofF, sandwich 
fashion. You can use cold fish of any sort 
in this way ; having the bits very small, and 
adding chopped gherkins to the mayonnaise. 



I GO A--MARKETING 191 



And, better yet, use in this way any bits of Fiah and 

Game 
Sanduuiohea 



cold game, or poultry, using with them chop- ^"'"^ 



ped olives and chopped truffles. In either 
case, you may if you like lay a lettuce 
leaf on the bread and put the mixture on that. 
But for myself I have always disliked the 
addition of lettuce to sandwiches. 

It is very easy to have savory butters. Savory 
" beurres composes," so familiar to the French ^'^^'^ 
cuisine, and so give an infinite variety of 
taste to any kind of sandwiches. Take, for 
instance, unsalted butter and season it well 
with anchovy essence, some very finely 
chopped parsley, a bit of paprika, and spread 
thin slices of bread with it and then use a 
layer of any kind of cold meat. Or you 
can use shrimp essence, or in fact any essence 
or sauce that you think would prove to be a 
favorite. 

One of the most palatable ways, it seems to Cruat 
me, in which to make sandwiches is to take Sandwhhea 
paste, not pufiF paste that is too rich, and roll 
it out as thinly as possible; cut it into 
rounds of uniform size spread around with a 
certain mixture, then cover it with another 
round of the paste, pinch the edges together 
and bake them till they are brown. As to 



192 I GO A-MARKETING 

the mixtures^ they may be made of an end- 
less number of savory viands. Say bloater 
paste softened so that it will spread easily 
with a little melted butter. And then there 
are all sorts of potted meats and devilled 
things that seem almost as if they were made 
expressly to be used in this way. Believe me, 
you will find these sandwiches ever so dainty 
if you get them small enough and thin 
enough, and, by the way, they make a capital 
appointment for the five-o*clock tea-table. 
Sweet Now for the sweet sandwiches. They may 
Sandwiches ^e made with either white bread, cake, or 
wafers — preferably the last. Have some 
icing made by your favorite rule and sprinkle 
into it chopped nuts of any kind and spread 
the wafers with it. Or, use chopped crystal- 
lized fruits and cherries preserved in mara- 
schino ; and then try, the next time you make 
this sort of sweets, some brandied fruits with 
the icing. You might make a chocolate 
icing and add to that some chopped 
pistachios or almonds or preserved ginger. 
But surely you Ve enough now in the way of 
a ground plan for the making of any number 
of dainty and appetizing bouchees. 

Just a word about jellied things. You 



I GO A-MARKETING 193 

can have a pint of stocky white if possible^ 
season it with an onion, a bay-leaf, a bit of 
thyme, a clove, and pepper and salt. Then 
put in a good half-ounce of dissolved gela- 
tine ; and turn about one quarter of it, after 
straining, into a mould and set on ice to 
cooL Have the rest of the jelly in a liquid Savory Jelly 
state, but perfectly cold. When that in the 
mould is set, have any sort of cold meat, 
chicken, turkey, ham or tongue cut into 
strips free of skin and bone, and pack it 
into the mould with alternate layers of the 
jelly, finishing with the latter. Now see how 
successful you can be in making such a dish a 
joy to the eye. Use sliced olives, gherkins, 
capers, truffles, fanciful shapes of beet or any- 
thing that your artistic eye will permit, and 
sprinkle these through the dish as you go 
along. Run a thin knife blade in between 
the jelly and mould and then plunge the 
mould into boiling water and the jelly will 
unmould easily. 

Then there are salads. To make one of Cheew Salad 
cheese rub the yolk of a hard-boiled egg in a 
basin with a tablespoonful of salad oil; 
add one teaspoonful of salt, a bit of cayenne 

and a little made mustard ; when all is well 

13 



194 I GO A-MARKETING 

mixed sdr in about half a pound of grated 
Parmesan cheese, the juice of an onion, and a 
tablespoon of vinegar. Serve on lettuce 
leaves. You will find that this will go par- 
ticularly well with sandwiches of bloater paste. 

But for a salad to be served with a jellied 
meat, make one of nuts, one kind or several, 
broken into bits, mixed with an equal quanti- 
ty of sliced olives and spread with only a very 
little mayonnaise. 

I did want to tell you of ways to make 
some very appetizing beverages, for the sort 
of occasions we are discussing, but they will 
have to wait And perhaps it *s just as well ; 
already my conscience is troubling me for fear 
that you are going to be so taken up with the 
goodies I have told you of that you will have 
no inclination to think on " better things " 
when it comes Sunday. But it can't be 
helped now. 



Last spring a certain Boston man with 
his family moved into the country. Not 
so far out, however, but that he could 
come to town daily to attend to business, and 
yet' far enough from the gilded dome to be 



I GO A-MARKETING 195 

able to buy sufficient land for a small farm 
without paying all creation for it. The next 
move was the stocking of the farm. So a 
Jersey cow was bought to keep the family 
supplied with cream, a flock of prize hens 
was set at work in a bran new henhouse that 
there might be fresh eggs on hand, and last 
but not least, a pair of tiny young pigs were 
secured to provide the household with sweet, 
home-made pork when winter should set in. 
And having secured the stock, the owner pro- 
ceeded at once to make pets, collectively and 
individually, of the whole equipment. Actual- 
ly the cow would manage to look half-way 
intelligent when he stroked her neck and told 
her she was the sort that deserved to live in 
clover the year round; the hens really did 
add a note to their regular cackle when the 
master was about, to show him that they knew 
who gave them heaping measures of grain, 
and the pigs, which he called Tim and Jim, 
got in no time to know their names when they 
were spoken by his voice. Well, cold wea- 
ther came on and with it those crisp, frosty 
mornings when a toothsomely seasoned sau- 
sage with a potato puree makes an ideal 
breakfast. So Tim and Jim went the way of 



196 I GO A-MARKETING 

all pork, and in due course of time their 
owner had the satis&ction of seeing on his 
own breakfast table pork '^ of his own raising/' 
And what do you think happened then ? 

" Susan," said he to his wife, " I can't do 
it; if you will believe me, I can't eat that 
pork. Give it away — give it all away. Never 
have any more put on this table. Why, dash 
it all, Susan, I may be a ninny, but I was 
actually fond of Tim and Jim, and don't see 
what I was thinking of when I had them 
kUled." 

'^Samuel," said the wife, a woman who 
knew how and when to point a moral, ^' you 
needn't call yourself a ninny; be thankful 
for the feeling you have, because it can give 
you a glimpse, though from afar off, of the 
mighty power that will make of us a nation of 
vegetarians, if we ever do become such." 

And I, when I heard of this little episode, 
fell to wondering if it would be such terribly 
hard lines after all to be put on a strictly vege- 
tarian diet. At any rate, I managed to turn 
out one dinner, sans fish, sans fiesh, sans fowl, 
that did n't appear in the least like a substitute 
for something better. You shall have the 
menu: 



I GO A-MARKETING 197 

Consomme with asparagus points. 
Mushroom cannelons. Poached ^gs with tomato. 
Macaroni with cheese. 

String beans with butter. 
Walnut salad. 
Lemon souffle. Coffee. 

As I was determined to be thoroughly Oonaommi 
conscientious in the preparation of this dinner, ""*^ 
using stock for the soup was quite out of the 
question, so I prepared it in this way : A 
couple of onions, a carrot and a bunch of 
herbs fried in plenty of butter till of a good 
brown. Add to them a bunch of celery 
chopped, with salt and pepper for seasoning, 
and a tiny bit of sugar. Cover with water 
and boil till the vegetables are quite tender. 
Strain and add to the liquid a dash of sherry, a 
few drops of lemon juice and some asparagus 
points that have been cooked by themselves 
till tender. Of course, the asparagus you will 
buy in tins or glass just now, but for use in 
this way it is quite as good as though freshly 
cut. You will be surprised, I fancy, when 
you see how savory a soup you have turned 
out. 

It isn*t often that we feel justified in buying 
fresh mushrooms at this time of year, but at a 



198 I GO A-MARKETING 



Cannetona of dinner of this sort where one is not obliged to 
MuBhrooma ^^^ £^j, ^ g^g^]^ q^ foj. game, one can afford to 

be a little bit reckless in the matter of vege- 
tables, especially when they are to be put to 
such a delicious use as the making of can- 
nelons. Coarsely mince a pound or so of 
well-wiped mushrooms and toss them with a 
little minced parsley in butter till nicely 
browned ; then season with white pepper and 
salt, adding a little more butter to moisten 
the mushrooms till they are quite cooked. 
Then stir in — off the fire — the yolks of 
three eggs, a squeeze of lemon juice, and set 
the whole aside to cool. Roll out some puff 
or very short paste thin, cut it out in oblongs, 
put a good spoonful of the mushroom mixture 
on each oblong, roll these up like sausages, 
moistening the edges to make them adhere, 
brush them over with egg and fry in plenty 
of oil or in butter. For myself, I prefer the 
oil, and the using of oil for frying purposes 
is n't the extravagant act that it seems at the 
first flush to be, because it wastes very little 
and can be used repeatedly for different 
purposes. 

The cannelons are to be served with the 



I GO A-MARKETING 199 



poached eggs and tomato. And the directions 
for preparing the latter dish are to be found 
elsewhere in this book. 

The macaroni with cheese you know all Macaroni 
about, I dare say. Is this your way of doing "''^^ Oheese 
it ? Break the macaroni into two-inch lengths 
and drop into boiling salted water. When it 
is quite tender pour cold water over it, drain 
and stir about in plenty of melted butter till 
each piece is well covered, then put into a 
baking-dish, strew grated Parmesan cheese 
over it and let brown in a hot oven. Just a 
little bit of cayenne added to the cheese 
improves the flavor wonderfully, to my 
thinking. 

You can find green string beans at the string Beans 
provisioner*s yet, or you can get them tinned, "''** ^''**®'" 
as you choose. I shall not presume to advise 
you as to that, but for the cooking of them I 
will say a word or two. Boil them till per- 
fectly tender, then drain well and place 
them in a pan with a tablespoonful or more 
of fine herbs (minced chives or minced shallot 
and parsley), with pepper, salt and lemon 
juice and two ounces of butter; toss them 
over the fire till the butter is melted and 
serve. 



200 I GO A-MARKETING 

Perhaps this is n't the place to go into a 
discussion of the circumstances that have 
landed us as a nation at a point where we 
think we must have turkey on Thanksgiving 
Day, or be accused of showing a disrespect 
for the Declaration of Independence. But 
some time the matter will be attacked by some- 
body who will spend a decade or so in the 
Astor Library or the Boston Athenseum to 
discover who said " turkey " first and where 
they said it. Evidently it was said in one 
of those voices that are heard around the 
world and its echoes have not begun to 
diminish, so hr as my ear can detect, even 
yet. So turkey it is, I suppose. 
Qrape Fruit But this little talk shall be of the addenda 
wHh Rum ^f ^Yie dinner. Know what addenda means, 
don't you ? Well, call them "fixin's," then. 
Nowadays grape fruit is a hard and fast 
"fixin*" of a Thanksgiving Day dinner. 
Before the soup it comes on cut in halves 
with the seeds removed and also all of the 
white pith in the centre of each half with a 
pair of sharp scissors. Then by the taste of 
them it is evident that about an hour before 
they were put on the table they had a lump 
of sugar and a teaspoonful of rum put into 



I GO A-MARKETING 201 



each half, after which little refection they 
reposed on the ice till wanted. Don't go on 
the principle that if a little rum is good more 
must be better and try to float the fruit in — 
that would have been hailed as a rank outrage 
even by Captain Shaddock himself — but just 
be content to see how potent a little bit of 
rum can be in good company. 

If you want a grape fruit sorbet, think- Qrape Fruit 
ing it best to begin your dinner ^th Corbet 
oysters, you may pick out the pulp with a 
fork in sizable bits, free from seeds and pith, 
cover these bits with sherry and with a sprink- 
ling of sugar and freeze. You know the 
rest — how to serve it and the like. But you 
may be firm in the conviction that when grape 
fruit comes to your table it does n't make its 
appearance till dessert. If so, you will allow 
me to put in just a word, won't you ? The fruit Salad 
word is to advise you to get the pulp out as 
recommended for the sorbet, mix with it an 
equal quantity of Malaga grapes cut in halves 
with seeds removed, covered with sugar and 
sherry and iced for three or four hours before 
serving. 

I don't know whether it is true or not but 
it seems to me more than likely that the mush- 



ao2 I GO A-MARKETING 

room hunters for science' sake are doing ^' us 
folks " who like good things to eat a kind 
turn by getting out so many books on the 
subject of good, bad, and indifferent sorts. 
At any rate, they are getting to be more plen- 
tifiil every year and consequently should be 
lower in price. Thanksgiving Day seems to 
be a pretty appropriate time for having them. 
You must spread yourself on that day, even 
if you live on bread and cheese for the rest 
of the month. Have them then and by them- 
selves after the table is cleared of the '^ bird and 
its fixin's/' and have them in croquettes. 



Of course, you knew just what to have for 
dinner on Thanksgiving Day, and if perchance 
you did n't there were plenty at hand to tell 
you how the menu should be composed. So 
just let me advise you how to prepare two or 
three dishes, to be called Thanksgiving en 
richauffie, if it will make things seem any more 
prosperous to you. 

Yes, I shall begin with turkey, because in 
nine families out often, or perhaps ninety-and- 
nine out of a hundred would be a closer esti- 
mate, that bird formed the piice de resistance. 



I GO A-MARKETING 203 

You know that if there's plenty to "go Broiled 

round " at the first serving of a turkey the ^"^^'^ ^'^^ 

legs are generally left untouched ; the carver 

does n*t feel like giving them to any one, and 

when it comes to waiting on himself he thinks 

he is entitled to a choicer bit. And so he is 

But you can use those legs all in good time. 

Just gash them three or four times with a 

very sharp knife, sprinkle them over with 

salt, pepper and a few drops of lemon juice 

and broil them over a hot fire till browned 

well ; put them on a hot dish, pour a little 

melted butter over them and send to table. 

They will go uncommonly well, say for a 

Sunday morning breakfast to help out with a 

bacon omelet. 

But if they are to do duty at luncheon. Broiled 
devil them before broiling. Season them with ^^"^^^ 

, . , Turkey LegB 

salt and pepper and then rub lightly with 
mustard which has been mixed with oil. Turn 
the legs often while they are broiling, basting 
them once in a while with a little melted but- 
ter. When they are dished pour a little rich 
brown gravy over them. And with them 
cooked in this way serve a potato omelet. 
Pardon the digression, and I will tell you how 
this is made. It may not prove a digression. 



204 I GO A-MARKETING 

however, as it is quite possible that you had a 
sufficient quantity of mashed potato left from 
the Thanksgiving Day dinner to make it. 
But if you didn't, boil four large potatoes 
Potato and when soft mash them ; beat four eggs 
Omelet ^j^ ^ ^^p ^f j^ilk, mix it with the potatoes 

and season with salt and white pepper. Cut 
four or five ounces of bacon into tiny squares, 
fry till crisp and brown, then mix in the 
potatoes and stir over the fire till they are 
heated through. Let brown well, fold the 
omelet over and serve. 

If there is a considerable quantity of the 

Minced white meat of the turkey left over cut it up 

Turkey with into dice-shaped bits and add to it half its 

Muehrooms • r j i_ 

quantity of canned mushrooms cut m two; 
moisten well with bechamel sauce, season with 
pepper and salt and let heat for ten minutes, 
but don't stir it. Dish it on triangular pieces 
of toasted white bread. Or, if you like, you 
may use in place of the bechamel sauce, cream 
and butter ; but, whatever amount of cream is 
used, let it heat till it reduces to one-half. 

A more savory hash may be made in this 
way : Use any or all bits of the turkey and 
chop them rather finely ; add a little chopped 
parsley, a few drops of lemon juice, the juice 



I GO A-MARKETING 205 

of an onion or two, and white stock enough Minced 
to moisten it sufficiently. Let it simmer for ^^^^^^ 
half an hour very slowly and then add a 
little white wine just before taking up. If 
you are in the habit of using wine in cooking 
you will know all about how much it will 
require to give just the right flavor ; but if 
you are pledged to abstain from such practices 
you won't want to know and you won't need 
to know how much should be used, so I '11 
not go into particulars. 

But perhaps for good and sufficient reasons Qoow Pie 
you did n't have turkey at all but had roasted 
goose, and if that is so please do use up the 
tidbits by making a goose pie. Cut all the 
meat from the bones and put the bones with 
the skin into a saucepan with a little water to 
boil slowly for two hours. Let it cool, and 
skim off all the fet ; into the bottom of a deep 
dish put a scanty layer of boiled and mashed 
onions; sprinkle well with salt and pepper, 
put in a layer of the goose meat, then a 
layer of the onions, and so on till the dish 
is filled. Pour in the water in which the 
bones were boiled, cover with a good crust 
and bake in a moderate oven till the crust 
is done. 






206 I GO A-MARKETING 

StBWBd Let me tell you also that stewed goose is 
^0096 jjy jjQ means a slow sort of dish. In fact, it 
is reckoned by a good many as being among 
the joys of earth. Take two onions, peel 
and chop, and put them in a saucepan with 
a tablespoonful of butter and fry until soft ; 
dredge them with flour and stir in half a 
pint or so of the water in which the bones of 
the goose have been boiled. Cut up into 
dice-shaped pieces any or all of the cold 
cooked goose and put it into the saucepan 
with a wineglass of white wine and a table- 
spoonful of vinegar,and season to taste with salt 
and pepper. Cover closely and stew for half 
an hour slowly. Turn out and serve very hot. 
Baked It is more than probable that, what- 

Squaah ^y^j. gjgg yQ^ [^j^^j {q^ dinner, you saw fit to 

have in addition squash boiled and mashed. 
And it is safe to say that some of it was 
left. So take this remnant and heat it well 
with plenty of butter over the fire and then 
put it into a baking dish. Scatter Parmesan 
cheese over the top and brown it very quickly 
in a hot oven. Serve this with your stewed 
goose, and the trick is yours. 

And suppose you had ducks for your din- 
ner, could you find a better way than this 



I GO A-MARKETING 207 

to serve up what was left of them ? Cut as BroUed 
good-sized pieces as you can and dip them ^'(^jff ^'^'«*« 1 

in a little melted butter ; season with pepper Sauoe \ 

and salt, and broil for a minute or so over I 

a hot fire. Arrange the pieces on a hot  

dish and pour over them a sauce made in 

this way : Fry two or three slices of fat ^ 

bacon and an onion together for five min- 
utes ; add the juice of an orange and a wine- 
glass of port or sherry wine with what salt 
and pepper is needed. Strain it before 
using. You will find this so delectable, I 
dare say, that you will be ready to declare 
that the last days of those ducks were better 
than the first. 

Did you ever make a duck salad in this Duck Salad 
way ? Rub the bottom of the salad bowl 
with a peeled onion, and squeeze in a few 
drops of lemon juice. Put the cold bits of 
duck in the bowl with what you consider a 
suitable amount of chopped whites of boiled 
eggs ; over this sprinkle a few quartered 
olives and a handful or so of capers, and 
then put in a layer of chopped watercresses. 
Cover this with a layer of mayonnaise and 
serve. Now if you want to use a little 
turkey meat, or a little goose meat, or a little 



2o8 I GO A-MARKETING 

of each, to eke out what you have of cold duck^ 
go right ahead and do so. The salad will be 
just as good as when duck alone is used and 
perhaps some will think it even better. 
FMSatad Didn't you have a boiled or even a 
broiled fish of some kind for your dinner, 
either halibut, striped bass, or fresh cod? 
If you did, just take what was left of it and 
flake it up daintily ; put a layer of it in a 
salad bowl that has been rubbed with an 
onion, sprinkle the fish with salt and lemon 
juice, put in a layer of shredded lettuce, dress- 
ing this also with lemon juice and salt, another 
layer of the fish and lasdy one of lettuce. 
Cover it all with a layer of tartar sauce, and 
there you have a salad worth the eating. 
*T would n't tempt a dying anchorite, perhaps, 
but it 's quite good enough for human nature's 
daily food. 



DECEMBER 

" And *wf fiuetf 'with champagm and chicking at lastJ*^ 

ANY one can go to market if she has 
the wherewithal and secure any kind 
^ of game that happens to be on the list 
and be happy in the purchase and eating of 
it, I dare say. But the happiest dames in these 
times are those who have a husband or sweet- 
heart in the field shooting straight to the 
mark with all thoughts for the recipient of his 
day's work. So it comes to pass that by ex- 
press to many a door there come on these 
fine crisp mornings boxes or hampers of game 
birds. The next thing, of course, is to get 
one's neighbors in to partake of them in order 
that they may be set by the ears with envy. 
I am with you. I will help you to make this 
envy business complete while you are about it. 
There shall be a dinner ^ven — a dinner 
which by a wise and palatable arrangement of 
courses shall lead up to the game. 

Now, you know all about scallops, of 
course — and by " all " you mean fried and 
served with tartar sauce. Bah ! to you and 

«4 



2IO I GO A-MARKETING 

your stereotyped dishes. Novelty I beg of 
you, and then put in your way the means 
to do as I beg. Do you appreciate it, I 
wonder? I doubt it 
Soatiopsin Well, then, scallops after the bouillon. 
Shefia Cook them in a little white wine till you 
know they are done. Then drain, cut them 
in halves or in quarters and add to them 
half their quantity of minced onion fried till 
tender, but not brown. Moisten with a little 
white sauce, season with cayenne and salt, 
heap in scallop shells, cover with bread-crumbs 
moistened with melted butter and brown in 
the hottest oven you can arrange. 

Whereas it is agreed that the pleasure of a 

repast must be continuous — not jerky — let 

us plan for the next dish at your luncheon 

Satmi of salmis of partridge, cold. The birds must be 

n -* w roasted and then cooled. Cut them into neat 

Partridge 

pieces, removing all the skin. Boil the skin 
and all the odd bits in a little red wine and 
water. Season with salt and a bay-leaf and 
thicken after it has boiled five minutes with 
a little flour braided with butter. Take it 
off, lift out all the pieces of meat and add 
enough aspic jelly to stiflTen it. Set on ice 
and beat till stiff, then dip into it the neatly 



1 iremjTh ^ . ^ ju' 'j^. . 



I GO A-MARKETING 211 



trimmed pieces of partridge. Dress them on 
a dish, using chop frills for the legs and set 
on ice till the time comes for serving. 

At this sort of a luncheon you know you 
must have two dishes of game and to let the 
first one be cold is doing the matter up as not 

one neighbor in ten of yours would think of j 

doing. ! 

Now for the next link in this gastronomical CMokenUuer 
harmony. Let it be chicken liver patties, ^^^^'m 
You know how to make the pufF paste and 
how to line the pans with it. Then you cook 
the desired number of chicken livers till ten- 
der, drain off the water, cover them with a rich ' 
Spanish sauce in which are as many sliced ; 
truffles as your means will allow. Of course ] 
this must be hot when the patty pans are 
filled with it and then the patties must be hot 
when they go to table. 

Now make way for the piice de resistance. Roasted Teal 
What shall it be ? He sent you blue-winged 
teal duck, you say ? Could n*t be better. 
His intentions towards you are of the best, 

you may depend. His blue-winged teal go ! 

where his heart is every time, let me tell you. ' 

Into each bird you will put a slice or two of 1 

toasted bread which has been soaked in any 



212 I GO A-MARKETING 

red wine. Rub the inside of the bird well 
with salt. Roast in a piping hot oven for 
twenty minutes^ basting five times with melted 
butter. Garnish with sliced lemon when 
serving. 
TomatoBB ^ou will want tomato with celery and 
Stujfedu/ith mayonnaise for this course, you know. 

andCeiety ^^^^ large, firm, fine tomatoes peeled care- 
fiiUy. Then cut a round out of the top 
of each and scoop out all the seeds. Keep 
the round whole, by the way. Fill each 
tomato with celery chopped and mixed with 
mayonnaise. Clap on the top in which you 
have cut a tiny hole in the centre and in 
this hole stick a little sprig of tender green 
celery. 
Maoaroon Only macaroon custards are good enough 
Cuatarda to be served at this point and these you make 
by covering half a pound of macaroons with 
hot cream first. When cool, beat well. Then 
add the yolks and whites beaten separately of 
six eggs and a tablespoonfiil of brandy. Butter 
some moulds, fill with the mixture and bake 
for ten minutes. Unmould on lace paper 
before serving. Yes, of course, have them 
cold. Who wants hot custard ? 

For a drink ? Cider cup. Not here, but 



I GO A-MARKETING 213 

elsewhere^ a page or two away, will you find 
directions for making this decoction. 



A few pages back I related an account of 
some of the happenings of my trip to market 
in search of game birds of the smaller kinds. 
Appended to this recital were given in a more 
or less appetizing fashion a few directions for 
preparing the birds which it seemed to me 
must find favor with epicures and laymen 
alike; and, assuming that approval was ac- 
corded these recipes, of which some were 
b^ged, others borrowed and more stolen, I 
am giving herewith hints for use in the 
preparation of the larger birds to be had 
now, with honors easy as to quantity and 
quality. As to price, you may pay what you 
will, almost, from seventy-five cents up to 
three and four and even five dollars per pair. 

To begin with, there are the toothsome 
canvas-backs that lead in price and palate- 
tickling properties. Now, I know quite as 
well as you that not every one who pleases 
may dine from canvas-back when fency dic- 
tates ; in fact, with nine out of ten house- 



214 I GO A-MARKETING 

holders something very like a dispute takes 
place between the purse and the palate in 
every instance where canvas-back forms the 
piice de risistance at dinner. But the next 
time the palate wins in the debate go straight- 
way to market and secure its indulgence 
from a marketman who will give you his 
oath that the canvas-backs he has on sale 
have fed on the banks where the wild celery 
grows, /. e., along the Gunpowder River, a 
tributary of the Chesapeake Bay, and you 
may feel sure that you have the best the 
market affords. 

As to the cooking. Wasn't it that 
wholly delightful old Colonel Carter who 
laid it down as a law that to smother a 
canvas-back in jelly of any sort or descrip- 
tion was Uttle short of criminal ? And that 
he was right there are scores of persons 
devoted to the art of good living ready to 
Bn^M attest. No ; if you are to have the bird 
Canvas-baoh broiled, use a double-broiler, leave over the 
fire ten minutes, eight will be better, and 
serve with only a little melted butter having 
in it a soup9on of lemon juice. There is 
nothing there, you see, to encroach upon 
the delicate flavor of the duck. About two 



I GO A-MARKETING 215 

minutes before removing from the fire 
sprinkle a little salt over the bird. 

But if a roast of game seems to you RooBted 
better calculated to round out your dinner Canvaa-baek, 
scheme, then roast them, but don't have ^^^ 
them too well done ('t is said the blood should 
follow the knife) ; and for a sauce have some 
port wine heated in a bain-marie with a few 
drops of orange juice added thereto. H'm, 
talk about being able to tempt a dying 
anchorite ! Sydney Smith may have thought 
it a great height attained to concoct a salad 
calculated to make that abstemious old recluse 
dip his fingers in the salad bowl, but for me, 
I 'd a thousand times rather prepare a dish fit 
to tickle the palate of a gourmet who is some- 
what aweary of good things ; and I fancy that 
canvas-back so roasted and served is quite 
capable of lending a fillip to the existence of 
those most experienced in the joys to be found 
in eating. 

It 's very sad,- but it 's also very true, that 
there are instances where a redhead duck is 
foisted upon an unknowing and consequently 
unsuspecting purchaser in place of a canvas- 
back. This is easily done, because of the 
strong resemblance between them as to 



2i6 I GO A-MARKETING 

plumage and habits, for the two kinds fly 
and feed in the same flock. But while the 
flavor of the redhead is of a desirable quality, 
it in no way approaches that of the canvas- 
back. 

In the cooking of the redhead duck, the 
rules given for preparing canvas-backs may be 
followed, with the exceptions that in the 
melted butter used for the broiled bird a little 
minced parsley will be an improvement, and 
in the port wine sauce for the roasted duck 
currant jelly may be melted and impart a 
flavor that will be generally liked. 
Roasted A favorite duck with many good diners is 
Mallard Duck ^^g mallard, and when they are in good con- 
Fried Celery dition they are quite worthy the favor shown 
them. It is only a matter of choice whether 
they shall be roasted or broiled ; if the latter 
way is decided upon, then a garnishing of 
fried celery makes a tempting dish more 
tempting still. Only the tender, smallest 
stocks of celery should be .used, and then, 
after being dipped in fiying batter, they 
should be fried quickly in butter. These 
birds, and, in fact, all others, when being 
broiled or roasted, should not be salted till 
about two minutes before removing from the 



I GO A-MARKETING 217 

fire. If the salt is put on earlier the meat is 
apt to be tough and the quality of the flavor 
somewhat injured, I don't know that cook- 
ery books give this direction explicitly, but I 
have found from experience that it is the case. 

If you are to have your mallards roasted, 
then by all means make a sour-apple marma- 
lade, strain it through a sieve and add to it 
half its quantity of unsweetened whipped 
cream. If you have never tried this sauce 
with roasted duck, then, my word for it, there 
is a gastronomical delight waiting for you, and 
I would n't advise you to keep it waiting long, 
for you will be the loser. 

Don't you recognize in this sauce an old 
friend in a new dress? Why, of course, 
roast duck and apple sauce is a dish our great- 
grandmothers were fond of; but this latter- 
day manner of preparing the sauce, you see, 
idealizes it a bit and renders it so much the 
daintier. 

Another duck of delectable flavor is the 
ruddy duck, or broadbill, as it is known in 
some localities. They live in the fresh ponds 
hereabouts, and as long as the ponds remain 
unfrozen the ducks will be quite satisfied with 
this climate. 



ai8 I GO A-MARKETING 

Teal ducks, too, especially the blue-winged^ 
• are of excellent flavor, and, in addition to this^ 

the meat is said to be highly nutritious and 
easily digested, making them desirable for 
convalescents. There is also a green-winged 
teal, but it is far inferior to the first-mentioned 
variety. 

One cannot very well decide upon the par- 
ticular kind of game and the manner in which 
it shall be served without giving some thought 
to the salad that in reality acts as its supple- 
ment. And the same rule which forbids the 
serving of a rich, heavy sauce with game 
applies to salads. The simpler the salad the 
more keenly will you relish the game. 
Chopped celery, lettuce, chicory, watercress 
or cucumbers, with a simple French dressing, 
are the salads par excellence to be served widi 
game. 

By the way, not long ago some one 
wrote to a certain weekly published in New 
York asking if it was " good form " to serve 
the game and the salad on the same plate. 
It does n't seem to me to be a matter in any 
way to be governed by what is called " good 
form." Good taste and a very superficial 
knowledge of epicureanism would enable their 



I GO A-MARKETING 219 

possessor to understand that hot game should 
be hot, not lukewarm, and that the salads • 

should be cold, and the only way to accom*- 
plish this is to have a plate for each. 



Cut some slices of bread from a not too SardinB 
fresh loaf, trim them to an oblong shape, ^«»oprf 
remove all crust and toast a delicate brown. 
Into a pat of butter mix some finely chopped 
parsley, pepper and lemon juice, in suitable 
proportions, and with the mixture coat the 
slices of toast. Remove the skin and bones 
from the desired number of sardines and lay 
them on the toast ; garnish between the sar- 
dines with hard-boiled eggs, chopped very 
finely, the whites and yolks separately. 
Sprinkle over all some minced parsley and 
there you have a canape — a sardine canape — 
one of the most delightful appetizers known 
to good diners of this day and generation. 
Moreover it is a fitting beginning for a 
Christmas dinner of the kind which I am 
about to submit for your approval. 

The wisdom of following the canape with 
the simplest soup possible will be quite appar- 
ent, if I mistake not, some time before the 



; Cheeae 



220 I GO A-MARKETING 

Chioken dinner is a thing of the past. Why not, 
Conaomma therefore, prepare it in this way ? Take a 
chicken, cut it in pieces and put it into a 
saucepan with two quarts of water to sim- 
mer gently until the scum begins to rise, 
skim until every particle is removed, then add 
salt, a carrot, an onion, two slices of turnip 
and three celery stalks. Boil gently for two 
hours, strain and serve, and your hmily and 
guests will have reason to bless the hour when 
you set before them a chicken consomme. 
OysterB After the soup ? Well, suppose you lay 
Baked with j^ a deep dish fit to be placed in the oven 
a bed of medium-sized oysters ; season them 
with salt, pepper, and a few small pieces of 
butter; sift over them some fresh bread- 
crumbs and pour in a little sherry with some 
of the oyster liquor ; repeat the same operation 
until the dish is full, then besprinkle the 
whole with bread-crumbs ; scatter small pats 
of butter here and there, and set the dish in a 
hot oven for fifteen minutes to color a light 
brown, then serve, and serving be modestly 
proud of the fact that you have prepared a 
dish which sometimes appears upon the menu 
at Delmonico's as '^ Huitres au Gratin a la 
Crane." Order it the next time you are 



I GO A-MARKETING 221 

lunching or dining at that hostelry and com- 
pare your effort with that of the famous chef 
at Delmonico's. For your sake, as well as 
for my own, I trust that you will find that 
the success turned out by your own cuisine 
gains by the comparison. 

Are you still wavering in your opinion as Qooae 
to whether your choice shall fall on turkey, ^"^^^ ""'*^ 
ducks or goose for the Christmas dinner? 
Let it be goose then, for if properly cooked 
and served they go far toward clinching the 
success of the feast But ** properly cooked 
and served," there 's the rub. And is n't it 
enough to amaze a contemplative person to 
note how wide apart are the conditions which 
different housekeepers define by that phrase ? 
Nevertheless I am going to tell you how it 
seems to me a goose should be prepared to 
answer the description. If the bird is of 
medium size then you will want to boil and 
mash eight or ten large potatoes; to them 
add half a dozen small onions which have 
been peeled and chopped as finely as possible ; 
then season with white pepper and salt to 
taste. Add at least half a pint of cream or 
rich milk, about three ounces of melted butter, 
and three eggs beaten to a froth. Whip the 



22a I GO A-MARKETING 

potato till it is light and smooth and fill the 
inside of the goose with it When it is sent 
to the table have it garnished with very small 
onions which have been boiled till tender 
without losing their shape, and then fried a 
light brown in butter. Nothing can be better 
for a sauce than the giblets boiled till tender, 
then chopped finely and returned to the 
water in which they were boiled, with a little 
Madeira, and a gill of button mushrooms cut 
in halves; thicken with a tablespoonful of 
browned flour braided with an equal quantity 
of butter. 
Turnips with Although there may be in market a goodly 
showing of vegetables from almost every part 
of the country, not everything is calculated to 
supplement the flavor of roasted goose so 
well as is a sweet and well-flavored turnip. 
Particularly is this the case if the turnips are 
cut into fanciful shapes, such as dice, crescents, 
etc., with the vegetable cutters, which come 
expressly for this purpose, boiled till tender 
and then served with melted butter and 
chopped parsley poured over them. 

Perhaps there are some housekeepers who 
will think I should suggest an entree to fol- 
low the goose, but at this season of the year 



Butter Sauce 



.1 



I GO A-MARKETING 223 

I am trying to live up to the golden rule, and Victoria 
as at this point I should vastly prefer a punch *®''^®* 
or a sorbet to anything else, I am going to 
recommend that you be guided by my prefer- 
ence. You may take one quart of lemon 
water ice to which has been added the whites 
of three eggs beaten to a froth, a gill of kirsch 
and half a pint of champagne, and send to 
table in some of the pretty punch cups which 
formed one of your Yule-tide gifts. You 
may also serve cigarettes at the same time, 
and, my word for it, your guests at table 
assembled will have a keener appetite for 
the next course than if you had sandwiched 
in some rich entree. 

With about nine out of every ten subur- 
banites raising pigeons in these days it is 
very easy to understand why the squabs in 
the market are of such good quality and 
are sold at such a reasonable price. And 
under these circumstances don't you think 
they will be excellent for the next course if 
broiled to a turn and accompanied by a 
salad of chicory or watercress ? 

After the squabs the sweets. Few house- 
keepers will think a Christmas dinner com- 
plete without mince pies and plum-pudding. 



224 I GO A-MARKETING 

but I cannot suggest a way in which to 
make them, for truth to tell, I never pre- 
pared either, and I 'm above offering you 
any recipes which I Ve not tried, no matter 
how true they may be. Consult your cookery 
books if you Ve not a favorite method of 
your own for preparing these aids to indiges- 
tion, and select those that seem least harmful. 

Of course, there will be upon the table till 
dessert is served celery, olives stuffed or plain, 
salted almonds or pecans, etc. I know that 
you know this, but had I neglected to men- 
tion it more than likely you would have 
accused me of being ignorant of the necessity 
of having these side dishes at a dinner. 

After the sweets the biscuit, cheese and 
coffee, and if the cheese is to be of a par- 
ticularly rich flavor, such as Camembert, 
Roquefort, or Brie, then by all means serve 
with it some of the little Bar-le-Duc currants, 
both red and white. 

Are you to have wine? Then make it 
sherry with the soup, champagne with the 
goose, and the very best burgundy to be had 
to accompany the squabs. 

I fancy there is nothing more that I can sug- 
gest that will add to your happiness or that of 



I GO A-MARKETING 225 

your guests, who will probably feel very 
grateful to you for spreading for them a 
feast " delectable to eat and to behold," For 
yourself, you will probably feel very grateful 
that Christmas comes but once a year. 



You shall not be put off with any side issue 
in these very last pages, but shall have dished 
up for your critical examination a list that 
I promise you shall be a hodge-podge, a 
melange, or, if it please your sense of the 
fitness of things better, a macedoine of the 
best edibles the market affords. 

Doubtless when you have been in Western 
cities you have dined many a time and oft at 
those sky-high restaurants overlooking one of 
the Great Lakes, and have had the waiter, with 
an air of honesty made perfect by practice, 
point out to you the very spot where the white- 
fish you were at the minute admiring had been 
pulled in scarcely three hours before. If so, 
you know the delicious and unapproachable 
flavor of the fish in their purest and best 
estate. And yet they reach eastern markets 
in a remarkable state of freshness and are 
inexpensive enough to warrant any one in 



226 I GO A-MARKETING 

trying them for a change from the kinds that 
are more common here. 

Broiled over a hot fire and served with a 
simple sauce made of melted butter, lemon 
juice and a sprinkling of cayenne they are 
good enough to serve at any meal for any- 
body. But you can make a more elaborate 
dish from them by going to work in this way : 
Baked Scale a rather good-sized fish, split it, remove 
WhiteflBh ^j^^ backbone, and then season the fish well 
with salt and pepper, dip it in beaten egg, 
then in bread-crumbs, again in beaten egg, 
and lay in a well buttered baking pan. 
Bake in a hot oven till it is colored a good 
brown. Take it up on a hot dish, set the 
baking pan having in it the hot butter on the 
top of the range and cook in it for a minute 
or two half a pint of drained oysters ; arrange 
the oysters round the fish and pour a little 
melted butter over all, with a garnishing of 
fried parsley. If you are having this dish for 
luncheon, have with it some potato croquettes, 
but if it is intended for dinner and a roast or 
rich entree is to follow, then have a dainty 
salad of crisp radishes with a handfiil of capers 
shaken over them. 

And now is the time if ever that fresh cods' 



I GO A-MARKETING 227 

tongues should find favor. They are in- BoUed Cods' 
expensive and in perfect condition, and by ^^"^"^^ 
more than one gourmet are considered an 
unrivalled delicacy. If this statement per- 
suades you to give them a trial, just a word 
as to preparing them : Have three pints of 
water boiling in a saucepan, add to it two 
carrots and half a dozen onions very finely 
chopped, a few sprigs of parsley and two gills 
of vinegar. When the vegetables are nearly 
tender enough put into the saucepan with 
them two pounds of cods' tongues. Let them 
boil just once, then move back where they 
will simmer but not boil for twenty minutes 
or so. Take up the tongues, drain, dress 
them on a hot dish and keep hot while you 
prepare the sauce. For this drain the vege- 
tables and toss them about in a frying-pan 
in plenty of butter till they show signs of 
browning a bit, then add to them some chop- 
ped cucumber pickles and a few capers and 
pour round the tongues. Season the sauce, 
of course, with salt and pepper, and if you 
are gifted with rare discretion in the matter of 
spices use ever so little nutmeg in it; just one 
or two turns of the grater will give you all 
you should have. I intend to be very par- 



aa8 I GO A-MARKETING 

ticular In my choice of readers and hearers 
when I suggest the use of nutmeg in savory 
sauces, because there are so many house- 
keepers as well as cooks who positively are 
not to be trusted with a nutmeg in one hand 
and a grater in the other ; they will persist in 
going on the principle that if a little is good 
more must be better, and then grate away for 
dear life. 

Of course you know that smelts are in their 
prime, but is your sense of smell keen enough 
to detect in that fish the likeness of its fra- 
grance to that of the violet or of the cucum- 
ber ? Well, the similarity is there if the fish 
be as fresh as it should, and if you don't dis- 
cover it you may add another to your list of 
misfortunes, for they do say, those who know 
whereof they speak, that inability to perceive 
this subtle scent indicates a correspondingly 
unappreciative palate. And so much for my 
fish story. 

Along with the many things for which we 
have cause for rejoicing about this time of 
year there should certainly be reckoned the 
fact that game of almost all kinds is more 
plentiful and *less expensive than at other 
seasons. And you know that under such 



I GO A-MARKETING 229 

favorable circumstances as these I am wont 
to urge you to make experiments in prepar- 
ing the viand in question. Suppose, for 
instance, that the next time you are to have 
partridges you pretend to forget that these 
birds are ever roasted or broiled, and so set 
to work to serve them in this way : Have Fried 
four partridges, cut off the breasts, divide them Cartridge 
in two and lay them aside ; boil the legs and 
livers of the birds in salted water till they 
are quite tender — so tender, in fact, that they 
can be pressed through a rather coarse sieve. 
Put this pulp into a saucepan with a gill of 
the water used for boiling it, half a gill of 
sherry wine, a bit of cayenne, an ounce of 
butter, and salt if it is needed. Let this get 
hot, very hot, without boiling, and keep it 
hot while you cook the breasts. These fry 
in butter and range in a circle on a dish with 
alternate slices of bread also fried in butter, 
and in the centre pour the sauce made from 
the legs and livers. To he sure, you can 
make the sauce somewhat richer by adding to 
it chopped mushrooms or chopped trufBes or 
both. 

Forget, also, for a time, your favorite ways 
of cooking qudls in order that you may pro- 



ajo I GO A-MARKETING 



Roaat9d nounce judgment on this manner of preparing 
Quaiis |.jjg,jj . Have half a dozen of them drst^m 

and singed for roasting. Chop up the livers^ 
double the quantity of chicken liver and as 
much minced fat salt pork as liver; add 
chopped parsley, salt, cayenne, three or four 
drops of onion juice, a tablespoonful of very 
fine bread-crumbs, and one beaten egg. M^ix 
these ingredients all well together and fill 
the quails with it; roast them in a rather 
moderate oven for twenty minutes, basting 
occasionally with melted butter. Dress the 
quails on a hot dish, squeeze a few drops of 
lemon juice into the pan in which they were 
roasted, adding a little melted butter, and 
pour this sauce over the birds. 
Roasted Or it may be that for yourself you prefer a 
^'/Ja ^^oasted black duck, but cannot gratify your 
Celery preference because some members of the 
&mily will insist upon calling such a bird 
" strong," when you know and speak of the 
flavor only as being " gamey." Now, there 's 
a way out of the difliculty for all of you. Just 
stuff the birds as full as you can with celery 
tops, tie thin slices of fat salt pork over 
their breasts and roast them till they are 



- — - am — » r ^ig I J i» 



I GO A-MARKETING 131 

quite tender and brown. You will find the 
strong flavor entirely gone, while the gamey 
taste will be so aided and abetted by the 
celery that your palate will receive a new 
and altogether delightful sensation. Surround 
the ducks when serving with a border pre- 
pared as follows : Brown some slices of bread 
in the oven, and when of a good color and 
very dry, roll and pass through a fine sieve, 
mix these crumbs with a little butter, season 
them with salt and pepper and heat well in 
the oven before using. Serve with the ducks 
also a hot apple sauce ; make it as you always 
do and add to one pint of sauce an ounce of 
butter. 

With either of the ways suggested for cook- 
ing game you will want to serve a salad, 
probably, and you can't do better than 
decide to have one of escarole or of romaine 
with a simple French dressing. But there 
is chicory, of course, and there is lettuce, 
and both of them in fine condition, if you 
don't feel inclined to take my advice. And 
there are cucumbers, from hothouses, and 
there are hothouse tomatoes, that are 
expensive or the reverse, according to one's 



232 I GO A-MARKETING 



position on the financial question. In fact, 
you can get almost any kind of vegetable 
or fruit in the large markets to-day, and at 
all times; and if the particular thing that 
you desire happens to be absent, just wait 
a few minutes and your order will be filled 
by lightning express from some part of the 
world. 



Index 



SOUPS ,A6. 

Asparagus .... 9a 
Bisque of clams ... 89 
Chicken consomme . • 220 
Consomme with aspara- 
gus 197 

Puree of peas and spin- 
ach 79 

Savory tomato ... 87 

Soup, velvet . . . . 177 

FISH 

Bluefish, Newport style 169 

Cods* tongues, boiled . 227 

Fresh cod, baked . . 9 

Fresh cod, broiled . . 9 
Fresh cod, Delmonico 

style 8 

Fresh cod, flaked, in to- 
mato sauce ... 37 
Halibut, baked, with 

Parmesan . . . . 178 

Smelts, baked . . . 167 
Smelts, broiled, Bear- 

naise sauce . . . 167 
Smelts, fried, with par- 
sley 168 

Trout, lake, boiled . . 50 

Whitefish, baked . . 226 

SMOKED OR SALT 
FISH 

Codfish with brown but- 

*« 44 

Codfish with cream . . 43 

Cods* tongues, fried 45 



48 
47 

46 
46 



65 



94 



95 



Fillets of sole, casserole 
of 

Finnan baddies with 
cream 

Herring fried . 

Mackerel, boiled, horse- 
radish sauce . . . 

Salmon, broiled . . . 

SHELL FISH 

Clam cocktails . . . 
Clams, West Island 

style 

Clams and lobsters in 

shells 

Lobster a la Newberg 38, 1 30 
Lobster croquettes . . 
Lobster, devilled . . 
Lobster patties . . . 
Lobster tartlets . . 
Lobster toast . . . 
Lobster tails stuffed 
Ojrsters, baked . . . 
Oysters, baked with 

cheese 

Oyster cocktails . . . 
Oysters, creamed . . 
Oysters, celery roast 
Oysters, devilled and 

fried . . . 
Oysters, pickled . 
Oyster pie 
Oyster salad . . 
03rster sandwiches 
Oyster soufflee . 



131 
129 

"34 
130 

129 

«3i 

143 

220 
Z42 

37 
146 

»45 
"47 
146 

17 
190 



^34 



INDEX 



SHBLL FISH — Conl. 

PAOI 

Oysters, stewed, with 

cream 144 

Oysters, stuffed and 

fried 145 

Scallops in shells • . 110 

BBBF, MUTTON, LAlf B, 
PORK,BTC.. 

fieef tongue . . . . iii 

Cutlets, jellied . . . 140 

Ham, roasted ... 5 

Ham toast .... lox 

Kidneys, en brochette . 25 
Kidneys, fried, with 

mushrooms ... a6 
Kidneys, minced . . ay 
Lamb croquettes 23 
Lamb cutlets with mush- 
rooms 135 

Lamb, roasted, with 

caper sauce ... ao 
Lamb, roasted, with 

macaroni .... ai 
Lamb, roasted, with 

onion puree ... ai 

Lamb steak .... 66 
Lamb steak, with Bear- 

naise sauce ... 67 

Lamb slices, broiled aa 
Lamb slices, fried with 

chutney .... aa 
Lamb slices, stewed with 

onions and mushrooms aa 
Lamb slices in chafing 

dish a3 

Liver, calf*s, fried . . a 8 

Pigs* feet, broiled . • 6 
Pork chops, broiled, 

sauce piquante • . 3 



Pork, roasted, onion 

sauce 

Sausages 

Veal cutlets, broiled 



«3 



POULTRY, GAME, BTC. 



Chicken cream (cold) 4a, 138 

Chicken cream with to- 
mato (cold) . . 

Chicken, fried, Italian 
style .... 

Chicken, fried with to- 
matoes. . . . 

Chicken, fried, cream 
sauce .... 

Chicken hash, baked 

Chicken liyers, olive 
sauce .... 

Chicken liver patties 

Doe birds, roasted . 

Duck, broiled canvas- 
back .... 

Duck, canvas-back, 
roasted, port wine 
sauce .... 

Duck, fillets, with or- 
ange sauce 

Ducks, roasted, with 
orange sauce . 

Ducks, roasted, with 
olives .... 

Duck, stuffed with cel- 
ery tops, roasted . 

Duck, mallard, roasted, 
with fried celery . 

Game tarts . 

Goose pie 

Goose, roasted, potato 
stuffing 

Goose, stewed . . 



«39 



»59 

160 

100 
«4 



39 
ati 

III 
a 14 



107 

160 

179 

130 

316 
III 
205 

131 

306 



INDEX 



^35 



POULTRY, ETC Cont. 

FAGX 

Grouse pie .... 1x9 

Grouse, roasted . . . 176 

Partridge breasts, fried . 229 

Partridge salmi (cold) . axo 

Plover, roasted . . . lao 
Quail, roasted 176, 230 

Teal (ducks) roasted . an 

Turkey in aspic . . . in 

Turkey legs, broiled • 203 
Turkey legs, devilled 

and broiled . . . 203 

Turkey, minced . . 205 
Turkey, minced with 

mushrooms • 204 

VEGETABLES 

Asparagus, baked . . 77 
Asparagus tops with 

cheese 90 

Asparagus tops with 

cream 76 

Asparagus with savory 

sauce 77 

Cucumbers, fried . . 96 
Cucumbers, stuffed and 

baked 95 

Mushroom cannelons . 198 

Oyster plant with cream x 1 8 

Peas with mint ... 92 

Potato soufflee ... 67 

Potato omelet . . 204 

Squash, baked . 206 

String beans with butter 199 
Tomatoes, broiled 

• devilled .... x6x 
Tomatoes, broiled, on 

toast 162 

Tomatoes with celery 

and mayonnaise . . 2x2 



Turnips with butter 
sauce 222 



SALADS 

Apple and celery . 
Asparagus . . . 
Brussels sprouts . 
Cheese .... 
Duck 



. . X62 

77, 88 

x6 

. . X93 

. . 207 

Fish 208 

Herring 84 

Lamb 24 

Lettuce with chives . . 91 

Nut x8 

Oyster 17 

Red cabbage ... 14 

Sardine x6 

Spanish onion ... 15 

SWEET SALADS 

Fruit — general . . . 107 

Fruit — summer . . . 201 

Fruit — ^winter ... x8 

Pear xo6 

Pear salad. No. a . . 164 

Pineapple xo6 

Strawberry . . . . 105 

EQQ DISHES 

Baked 57 

Curdled in cream . . 55 

Sggs» curried ... 4X 

Fggs, snow .... 62 

Epicurean style ... ^6 

In tomato puree ... 58 

Omelet Celestine . . 6x 

Omelet jelly .... 60 

Omelet, Spanish ... 59 

Omelet strawberries . . 60 

Omelet with caviare 58 



236 




INDEX 


1 

^ 

1 




EQO DISHES -Cont. | 




PAGt 






PAOB 


Peach sherbet . . 


124 




Omelet with chicken 


Pineapple sherbet 


124 




liver 


59 


Rhubarb sherbet . . 


81 




Omelette soufflee 


6% 


Victoria sorbet . . 


223 




Scrambled with truffles 58 


Wine ice cream . . 


»37 




Toast with Pftrmesan . 


• 57 












FRUITS, COOKBD 




DESSERTS 




Apple croquettes 


3 




Almond pudding . , 


53 


Apple salad . . . 


156 




Charlotte, apricot 


81 


Apple sauce with orange 163 




Charlotte, macaroon 


180 


Apple sauce with whip- 




Cream, banana . . 


108 


ped cream . . 


163 




Cream, coffee glacee 


53 


Apples, fried . . . 


155 




Cream, gooseberry . . 


xoa 


Apples in vanilla syrup 


» 155 




Cream, peach . . 


108 


Grape jam .... 


«49 




Cream, raspberry . 


X08 


Peach cream .... 


165 




Macaroon custard 


2ia 


Pears in vanilla syrup . 


^S7 




Milk sherbet . . . 


 "3 


Pears stewed in claret . 


158 




Musk melon jelly . . 


X14 


Pears, stuffed . . . 


164 




Omelet Celestine 


61 


Pears, stuffed stewed 


158 




Omelet with jelly . , 


60 


Peaches, brandied . . 


• 154 




Omelet with strawberries 


i 60 


Peaches, stuffed . . . 


165 




Omelette soufflee . . 


6% 


Plums, brandied 


 153 




Raspberries, crystaliizecj 


I 107 


Plum jam .... 


152 




Strawberries, frozen . . 


91 


Quince jelly .... 


i5« 




Strawberry fritters . 


. 103 


Quince marmalade . 


150 




Strawberry jelly . . . 


105 








Strawberry pudding . 


. 104 


DRINKS 






Strawberry sherbet . . 


X14 


^^«  






Watermelon, iced . 


- 99 


Claret, hot, egg-nog . 


182 






Claret, hot, spiced . . 


182 








Claret tipple .... 
Cider cup . . 


. 182 




ICE CREAMS AND 


ICES 


. 186 




Champagne sherbet . 


. 125 


Cider egg-nog . 


185 




Champagne sherbet will] 


i 


Cider punch .... 


184 




strawberries • 


126 


Ginger lemonade . . 


. 186 




Claret sherbet . . 


126 


Moss rose .... 


"5 




Coffee ice cream 


123 


Orange punch . . 


. 184 




Currant sherbet . . . 


124 


Quince liqueur . . . 


185 




Grape fruit sherbet . 


201 


Rhine wine cup . . . 


186 




Kirsch sherbet . . 


127 


Rhine wine seltzer . 


186 



INDEX 



^37 



DRINKS— Cont. ,^01 

Soda cocktail . . 187 

Sherry egg-nog, hot 183 

Various cups . . 186 

MISCELLANEOUS 



Butters, savory . . , 


191 


Cider sauce . . . . 


5 


Croquettes, macaroni 


27 


Croquettes, sweet com 




(canned) . . . . 


II 


Golden buck . . . 


41 


Grape fruit with rum 


aoi 


Hash, sublimated . . 


12 


Jelly, savory . . . . 


193 


Johnny cake, Rhod( 




Island style 


13 


Macaroni, timbales . 


51 


Macaroni with cheese 


 199 


Mayonnause, with horse 




radish .... 


79 


Olives with caviare . 


. 78 


Partridge, sauce for 


 175 


Rice muffins 


12 


Sandwiches, caviare . 


190 


Sandwiches, crust 


• 191 


Sandwiches, fish . . 


. 191 



Sandwiches, French 
Sandwiches, game 
Sandwiches, sweet 
Sardine canape . 
Sauce duchesse 
Sauce for calPs 
Sauce, onion . 
Toast, anchovy 
Toast for game 
Toast, sardine 
Tunny fish 
Welsh rabbit 



liver 



PAGE 

113 

191 

192 

219 

80 

29 

80 

69 

174 
69 

70 
40 



INVALID COOKERY 

Barley, puree of 31 

Beef tea 32 

Chicken broth with oat- 
meal 31 

Chicken custard ... 33 

Chicken, sabayon of 32 

Cream soup .... 32 

Invalid* s chop ... 35 

Rice, steamed ... 35 

Tapioca jelly ... 33 

Violet jelly .... 34 



t 






PP^rks on Cookery 



MRS. LINCOLN'S COOK BOOK 

New Edition. The Boston Cook Book. What to Do and 
What Not to Do in Cooking. By MARY J. LINCOLN. 
With SI illustrations. Revised edition, including 250 
additional recipes. lamo. $2.00. 

It is the trimmest, best arranged, best illustrated, most intelligible manual 
of cookery as a high art, and as an economic art, that has appeared.— 
Independent, 

It tells in the most simple and practical and exact way those little things 
which women ought to know, but have generaUy to learn by sad experience. 
It ought to be in every household, ~ Philadelphia Press, 

CARVING AND SERVING 

Square i2mo. Illuminated board covers* 60 cents. 

What an advantage it must be to be able to place with the left 
hand a fork in the breast of a turkey, and, without once removing it, 
with the right hand to carve and dissect, or disjoint, the entire fowl, 
ready to be helped to admiring guests 1 This is done by skilful 
carvers. The book contains directions for serving, with a list of 
utensils for carving and serving. 

BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK 

Lessons in Cooking for the use in Classes in Public 
and Industrial Schools. i2mo. 1 1.00. 

TWENTY LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Compiled from the Boston School Elitchen Text-Book. 
With Index. Cards in envelope. 40 cents per set net. 

THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK 

One hundred pages of Valuable Receipts for Cooking, 
Compact and Practical. i6mo. Paper covers. 15 cents. 



WORKS ON COOKERY 



MISS PARMER'S COOK BOOK. New Edition 

The Boston CookiDg-School Cook Book. By FANNIE 
MERRITT FARMER, Principal of the Boston Cooking- 
School, author of '^ Chafing Dish Possibilities.'* New 
edition, with one hundred additional receipts. Illus- 
trated, lamo. fa.oa 

Mist Fanner's Cook Book has constantly been growing in favor 
and is now in the front rank. The CongrtgatumalUi pronounces it 
tkaroHgkfy practical and serviceabU^ and numerous authorities award 
it the highest praise. It should be in every household. 

If one were asked off-hand to name the best cook book on the market it 
would not be stcange if *' The Boston Cooking-School Cook Book " 
named.— Th€ Ntw York Woman's World. 

Tko rocipos aro compounded with a knowUdgo of tho scUnco of i 
and with due regard to the conserratiTe public, which must be wooed into a 
knowledge and appreciation of foods, not mvely as paUte-tickkrs, bat as 
tlie builders and sustainers of the human body. — Tko Outlook, 



CHAFING DISH POSSIBILITIES 

By FANNIE MERRTTT FARMER. i6mo. Ii.oo. 

Contents : I. Glimpsxs of Chafing Dishes in the Past ; 
II. Chafing Dish Suggestions; III. Toast, Griddle Cakes, 
AND Fritters; IV. Eggs; V. Oysters; VI. Lobsters: 
VII. Some Other Shell Fish ; VIII. Fish RAcHAUFFits ; 
IX. Beef; X. Lamb and Mutton; XL Chicken; XII. 
Sweetbreads; XIII. With the Epicure; XIV. Vegeta- 
bles; XV. Cheese Dishes; XVI. Relishes and Sweets. 
XVII. Candies. 

It is a book that no one who entertains with the chafing dish will be inth- 
oat. — St. Paul Globe. 

Her recipes have the merit of timplidty and newness.*— Z^j AngoUs Even* 
ing Express, 

There have been many volumes of chafing dish recipes, but none which is 
more appropriately adapted for the breakfast or lunch table, or for small con- 
genial parties. Every feature is distinctly new. — Boston Herald, 

Nearly 250 reoeipes, aO simply and dearly written. —iSaw Frandsto 
Ckronkle, 



WORKS ON COOKERY 

SALADS, SANDWICHES, AND CHAFING- 
DISH DAINTIES 

By JANET McKENZIE HILL, editor of "The Boston 
Cooking-School Magazine/' With 33 half-tone illustra- 
tions from photographs of original dishes. i2mo. 
Cloth^ extra, f 1.50. 

To the housewife who likes new and dainty ways of serving food, this book 
will simply be a godsend. There must be more than a hundred different 
varieties of salad among the recipes — salads made of fruit, of fish, of meat, 
of vegetables, and made to look pretty in scores of different ways. There are 
also instructions for making different kinds of lemonades and other soft drinks, 
and for making breads and rolls in the truly artistic oooking-school style. 
— WttshingUm Times, 

Sensible and practical. — Chicago Evening Post, 

Biany of the dishes are new to the average housewife. — Philaddphia 
Times, 

A most attractive volume. The subjects are presented in a dear and pleas- 
ing form, and are beautifully iUustrated from photographs of original dishes. 
— > Advance. 

Her recipes are founded upon scientific principles, her directions are dear 
and uncomplicated, and are reliable. — Brooklyn Times, 

The very attractive form of the book fits it to go along with the pretty 
adjuncts of the chafing dish supper. — The Dial, 

It is a thoroughly practical work and 1^ be cordially wdcomed in every 
household where new and dainty ways of preparing food are appreciated. — 
Boston Globe, 

Wholesome dishes that will please capridous appetites. Some of these 
redpes will also appeal to the taste of inviidids. — Vogue, 

I GO A MARKETING 

By HENRIETTA SO WLE ( " Henrietie " ). 1 2mo. 

Cloth. $1.50. 

Miss Sowle has for some time been a valued writer for the Boston 
Transcript, and her artides published under the title of "I Go a 
Marketing" have been found helpful and suggestive to those who 
are interested in dainty and palatable dishes. Her book is not a 
cook-book in the ordinary sense but aims to give novel and delicious 
ways of serving the many good things which may be found each 
month in the year by those who ** go a marketing." 



WORKS ON COOKERT 

HELEN CAMPBELL'S WRITINGS 

THE EASIEST WAY IN HOU8EKEEPINQ AND 
COOKING 

Adapted to Domestic Use or Study in Classes. New 
revised edition. i6mo. $i.oo. 

IN FOREIGN KITCHENS 

With choice recipes from England, France, Germany, 
Italy, and the North. i6mo. 50 cents. 

THE WHAT-TO-DO CLUB 

A Story for Girls. i6mo. |i.5a 
MRS. HERNDON'S INCOME 

A Novel. i6mo. $1.50. 
MISS MELINDA'S OPPORTUNITY 

A Story for Girls. i6mo. $1.00 ; paper, 50 cents. 

PRISONERS OF POVERTY 

Women Wage-Workers, their Trades, and their lives, 
xamo. $1.00. 

PRISONERS OF POVERTY ABROAD 

x6mo. fi.oo; paper, 50 cents. 

She went amoDg the workers and Uie employers, and her statements are 
based upon personal knowledge of the facts. . . . — JBosion Pest, 

ROGER BERKELEY'S PROBATION 

A Story. i2mo. Ii.oo; paper, 50 cents. 

SOME PASSAGES IN THE PRACTICE OF DR. 
MARTHA SCARBOROUGH 

i6mo. $1.00. 

This work directs attention to the physical and spiritoal value of 
foods. 

WOMEN WAGE-EARNERS 

Their Past, their Present, and their Future. i6mo. 
f i.oo. 

LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY 

Publishers • 254 Washington Street, Boston 



