HmtilllHflliliiliilliii 




FROM THE LIBRARY OF 

James B. Herndon, Jr, 



PRESENTED BY HIM TO THE 

School of Hotel 
A dministration 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY 



Cornell University Library 
TX 633.P4 1901 



The delights of delicate eating / 




3 1924 000 481 824 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000481824 



THE DELIGHTS OF 
DELICATE EATING 



BY 

Elizabeth Robins Pennell 



n 



New York AKRON, OHIO Chicago 

THE SAALFIELD PUBLISHING COMPANY 

1901 



Copyright, 1901, by 

THE SAAI,FIEI<D PUBWSHING COMPANY, 

Akron, Ohio. 



Note. — These papers were first published in the 
"Pall Mall Gazette " under the heading, " Wares of 
Autolycus." It is due to the courteous permission of 
the editors of that Journal that they are now re-issued 
in book form. 



INTRODUCTION 

I HAVE always wondered that woman could be 
so glib in claiming equality with man. In 
such trifling matters as politics and science and 
industry, I doubt if there be much to choose 
between the two sexes. But in the cultivation 
and practice of an art which concerns life more 
Seriously, woman has hitherto proved an infe- 
rior creature. 

For centuries the kitchen has been her ap- 
pointed sphere of action. And yet, here, as in 
the studio and the study, she has allowed man 
to carry off the laurels. Vatel, Careme, Ude, 
Dumas, Gouffe, Etienhe, these are some of the 
immortal cooks of history: the kitchen still 
waits its Sappho. Mrs Glasse, at first, might 
be thought a notable exception ; but it is not so 
much the merit of her book as its extreme rar- 
ity in the first edition which has made it fa- 
mous. 

Woman, moreover, has eaten with as little 
5 



6 Introduction 

distinction as she has cooked. It seems almost 
— much as I deplore the admission — as if she 
were of coarser clay than man, lacking the 
more artistic instincts, the subtler, daintier 
emotions. 

I think, therefore, the great interest of the 
following papers lies in the fact that they are 
written by a woman — a greedy woman. The 
collection, evidently, does not pretend to be a 
"Cook's Manual," or a "Housewife's Compan- 
ion": already the diligent, in numbers, have 
catalogued recipes, with more or less exactness. 
It is rather a guide to the Beauty, the Poetry, 
that exists in the perfect dish, even as in the 
masterpiece of a Titian or a Swinburne. 
Surely hope need not be abandoned when there 
is found one woman who can eat, with under- 
standing, the Feasts of Autolycus. 

ELIZABETH ROBINS PENNELL. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

The Virtue of Gluttony 9 

A Perfect Breakfast 17 

Two Breakfasts 25 

The Subtle Sandwich, ^ . . . .33 

A Perfect Dinner, 43 

An Autumn Dinner 51 

A Midsummer Dinner 59 

Two Suppers 67 

On Soup 75 

The Simple Sole, 89 

Bouillabaisse, 97 

The Most Excellent Oyster, . . .105 

The Partridge 117 

The Archangelic Bird, 125 

Spring Chicken, . . . . . -135 
The Magnificent Mushroom, , . .143 
The Incomparable Onion, . . . • iS5 
The Triumphant Tomato, 



• .-■"d 



Contents. 



A Dish of Sunshine, 

On Salads, 

The Salads of Spain, 

The Stirring Savoury, 

Indispensable Cheese, 

A Study in Green and Red, 

A Message from the South, 

Enchanting Coffee, 



PAGE 

• 179 

• 191 
. 205 
. 215 

• 223 
. 231 

• 239 
' 249 



THE VIRTUE OF GLUTTONY 

Gluttony is ranked with the deadly sins; it 
should be honoured among the cardinal virtues. 
It was in the Dark Ages of asceticism that con- 
tempt for it was fostered. Selfish anchorites, 
vowed to dried dates and lentils, or browsing 
Nebuchadnezzar-like upon grass, thought by 
their lamentable example to rob the world of 
its chief blessing. Cheerfully, and without a 
scruple, they would have sacrificed beauty and 
pleasure to their own superstition. If the 
vineyard yielded wine and the orchard fruit, if 
cattle were sent to pasture, and the forest 
abounded in game, they believed it was that 
men might forswear the delights thus offered. 
And so food came into ill repute and foolish 
fasting was glorified, until a healthy appetite 
passed for a snare of the devil, and its gratifi- 
cation meant eternal damnation. Poor deluded 
humans, ever so keen to make the least of the 
short span of life allotted to them ! 
9 



lo The Virtue of Gluttony 

With time, all superstitions fail ; and asceti- 
cism went the way of many another ingenious 
folly. But as a tradition, as a convention, 
somehow, it lingered longer among women. 
And the old Christian duty became a new fem- 
inine grace. And where the fanatic had fasted 
that his soul might prove comelier in the sight 
of God, silly matrons and maidens starved, or 
pretended to starve, themselves that their bod- 
ies might seem fairer in the eyes of man. And 
dire, indeed, has been their punishment. The 
legend was that swooning Angelina or tear- 
stained Amelia, who, in company, toyed ten- 
derly with a chicken wing or unsubstantial 
wafer, later retired to the pantry to stuff her- 
self with jam and pickles. And thus gradu- 
ally, so it is asserted, the delicacy of women's 
palate was destroyed; food to her perverted 
stomach was but a mere necessity to stay the 
pangs of hunger, and the pleasure of eating 
she looked upon as a deep mystery, into which 
only man could be initiated. 

In this there is much exaggeration, but still 
much truth. To-day women, as a rule, think 
all too little of the joys of eating. They hold 



The Virtue of Gluttony 1 1 

lightly the treasures that should prove invalua- 
ble. They refuse to recognise that there is no 
less art in eating well than iii painting well or 
writing well, and if their choice lay between 
swallowing a bun with a cup of tea in an aer- 
ated bread shop, and missing the latest picture 
show or doing without a new book, they would 
not hesitate; to the stodgy bun they would 
condemn themselves, though that way madness 
lies. Is it not true that the woman who would 
economise, first draws her purse-strings tight 
in the market and at the restaurant? With her 
milliner's bill she may find no fault, but in 
butcher's book, or grocer's, every halfpenny is 
to be disputed. 

The loss is hers, but the generous-hearted can 
but regret it. Therefore let her be brought 
face to -face with certain fundamental facts, 
and the scales will fall quickly from her eyes, 
and she will see the truth in all its splendour. 

First, then, let her know that the love of 
good eating gives an object to life. She need 
not stray after false gods ; she will not burden 
herself with silly fads, once she realizes that 
upon food she may concentrate thought and en- 



12 The Virtue of Gluttony 

ergy, and her higher nature — which to her 
means so much — be developed thereby. Why 
clamour for the suffrage, why labour for the 
redemption of brutal man, why wear, with 
noisy advertisement, ribbons white or blue, 
when three times a day there is a work of art, 
easily within her reach, to be created? All his 
life a Velasquez devoted to his pictures, a 
Shakespeare to his plays, a Wagner to his ope- 
ras: why should not the woman of genius spend 
hers in designing exquisite dinners, inventing 
original breakfasts, and be respected for the 
nobility of her self-appointed task? For in the 
planning of the perfect meal there is art ; and, 
after all, is not art the one real, the one impor- 
tant thing in life? 

And the object she thus accepts will be her 
pleasure as well. For the gourmande, or glut- 
ton, duty and amusement go hand in hand. 
Her dainty devices and harmonies appeal to 
her imagination and fancy; they play gently 
with her emotions; they develop tothe utmost 
her pretty sensuousness. Mind and body alike 
are satisfied. And so long as this pleasure en- 
dures it will never seem time to die. The an- 



The Virttfe of Gluttony 13 

cient philosopher thought that time had come 
when life afforded more evil than good. The 
good of a pleasantly planned dinner outbal- 
ances the evil of daily trials and tribulations. 

Here is another more intimate, personal rea- 
son which the woman of sense may not set 
aside with flippancy or indifference. By artis- 
tic gluttony, beauty is increased, if not actually 
created. Listen to the words of Brillat-Sava- 
rin, that suave and sympathetic gourmet: "It 
has been proved by a series of rigorously exact 
observations that by a succulent, delicate, and 
choice regimen, the external appearances of 
age are kept away for a long time. It gives 
more brilliancy to the eye, more freshness to 
the skin, more support to the muscles ; and as 
it is certain in physiology that wrinkles, those 
formidable enemies of beauty, are caused by 
the depression of muscle, it is equally true 
that, other things being equal, those who un- 
derstand eating are comparatively four years 
younger than those ignorant of that science." 
Surely he should have called it art, not science. 
But let that pass. Rejoice in the knowledge 
that gluttony is the best cosmetic. 



14 The Virtue of Gluttony 

And more than this: a woman not only grows 
beautiful when she eats well, but she is be- 
witchingly lovely in the very act of eating. 
Listen again, for certain texts cannot be heard 
too often : " There is no more pretty sight than 
a pretty gourmande under arms. Her napkin is 
nicely adjusted ; one of her hands rests on the 
table, the other carries to her mouth little mor- 
sels artistically carved, or the wing of a par- 
tridge, which must be picked. Her eyes spar- 
kle, her lips are glossy, her talk cheerful, all 
her movements graceful; nor is there lacking 
some spice of the coquetry which accompanies 
all that women do. With so many advantages 
she is irresistible, and Cato, the censor himself, 
could not help yielding to the influence. " And 
who shall say that woman, declaiming on the 
public platform, or "spanking" progressive 
principles into the child-man, makes a prettier 
picture? 

Another plea, and one not to be scorned, is 
the new bond of union love of eating weaves 
between man and wife. " A wedded pair with 
this taste in common have once a day at least 






The Virtue of Gluttony 15 

has been pronounced a closer tie than religion, 
but what of food? What, indeed? Let men 
and women look to it that at table delicious 
sympathy makes them one, and marriage will 
cease to be a failure. If they agree upon their 
sauces and salads, what matter if they disagree 
upon mere questions of conduct and finance? 
Accept the gospel of good living and the sexual 
problem will be solved. She who first dares to 
write the great Food Novel will be a true 
champion of her sex. And yet women meet 
and dine together, and none has the courage 
to whisper the true secret of emancipation. 
Mostly fools! Alas! that it should have to be 
written ! 

And think — that is, if you know how to think 
— of the new joy added to friendship, the new 
charm to casual acquaintanceship, when food is 
given its due, aiid is recognised as something 
to be talked of. The old platitudes will fade 
and die. The maiden will cease to ask "What 
do you think of the Academy?" The earnest 
one will no longer look to Ibsen for heavy 
small talk. Pretence will be wiped away, con- 
versational shams abolished, and the social 



1 6 The Virtue of Gluttony 

millennium will have come. Eat with under- 
standing, and interest in the dishes set before 
you must prove genuine and engrossing, as en- 
thusiasm over the last new thing in art or 
ethics has never been — never can be. The 
sensation of the day will prove the latest ar- 
rangement in oysters, the newest device in 
vegetables. The ambitious will trust to her 
kitchen to win her reputation; the poet will 
offer lyrics and pastorals with every course; 
the painter will present in every dish a lovely 
scheme of colour. 

Gross are they who see in eating and drink- 
ing nought but grossness. The woman who 
cannot live without a mission should now find 
the path clear before her. Let her learn first 
for herself the rapture that lies dormant in 
food ; let her next spread abroad the joyful tid- 
ings. Gluttony is a vice only when it leads 
to stupid, inartistic excess. 



A PERFECT BREAKFAST 

Breakfast means many things to many men. 
Ask the American, and he will give as defini- 
tion: "Shad, beefsteak, hash, fried potatoes, 
omelet, coffee, buckwheat cakes, waffles, corn- 
bread, and (if he be a Virginian) batter pud- 
ding, at 8 o'clock A.M. sharp." Ask the Eng- 
lishman, and he will affirm stoutly: "Tea, a 
rasher of bacon, dry toast, and marmalade as 
the clock strikes nine, or the half after." And 
both, differing in detail as they may and do, 
are alike barbarians, understanding nothing of 
the first principles of gastronomy. 

Seek out rather the Frenchman and his kins- 
men of the Latin race. They know: and to 
their guidance the timid novice may trust her- 
self without a fear. The blundering Teuton, 
however, would lead to perdition; for he, in- 
sensible to the charms of breakfast, does away 
with it altogether, and, as if still swayed by 
nursery rule, eats his dinner at noon — and may 

2 17 



1 8 A Perfect Breakfast 

he long be left to enjoy it by himself! There- 
fore, in this, as in many other matters that 
cater to the higher pleasures, look to France 
for light and inspiration. 

Upon rising — and why not let the hour vary 
according to mood and inclination? — forswear 
all but the petit dejeuner: the little breakfast of 
coffee and rolls and butter. But the coffee 
must be of the best, no chicory as you hope for 
salvation ; the rolls must be crisp and light and 
fresh, as they always are in Paris and Vienna; 
the butter must be pure and sweet. And if 
you possess a fragment of self-respect, enjoy 
this petit dejeuner alone, in the solitude of your 
chamber. Upon the early family breakfast 
many and many a happy marriage has been 
wrecked; and so be warned in time. 

At noon once more is man fit to meet his fel- 
low-man and womani Appetite has revived. 
The day is at its prime. By every law of na- 
ture and of art, this, of all others, is the hour 
that calls to breakfast. 

When soft rains fall, and winds blow milder, 
and bushes in park or garden are sprouting and 
spring is at hand, grace your table with this 



A Perfect Breakfast 19 

same sweet promise of spring. Let rosy radish 
give the touch of colour to satisfy the eye, as 
chairs are drawn in close about the spotless 
cloth: the tiny, round radish, pulled in the 
early hours of the morning, still in its first vir- 
ginal purity, tender, sweet, yet peppery, with 
all the piquancy of the young girl not quite a 
child, not yet a woman. In great bunches, it 
enlivens every stall at Covent Garden, and 
every greengrocer's window ; on the breakfast- 
table it is the gayest poem that uncertain 
March can sing. Do not spoil it by adding 
other hors d'ceuvresj nothing must be allowed to 
destroy its fragrance and its savour. Bread 
and butter, however, will serve as sympathetic 
background, and enhance rather than lessen its 
charm. 

Vague poetic memories and aspirations 
stirred within you by the dainty radish, you 
will be in fitting humour for ceufs aux saucissons, 
a dish, surely, invented by the Angels in Para- 
dise. There is little earthly in its composition 
or flavour; irreverent it seems to describe it in 
poor halting words. But if language prove 
weak, intention is good, and should others 



20 A Perfect Breakfast 

learn to honour this priceless delicacy, then 
will much have been accomplished. Without 
more ado, therefore, go to Benoist's, and buy the 
little truffled French sausages which that temple 
of delight provides. Fry them, and fry half the 
number of fresh eggs. Next, one egg and two 
sausages place in one of those irresistible little 
French baking-dishes, dim green or golden 
brown in colour, and, smothering them in rich 
wine sauce, bake, and serve — one little dish 
for each guest. Above all, study well your 
sauce ; if it fail, disaster is inevitable ; if it suc- 
ceed, place laurel leaves in your hair, for you 
will have conquered. "A woman who has 
mastered sauces sits on the apex of civilisa- 
tion." 

Without fear of anti-climax, pass suavely on 
from aufs aux saucissons to rognons sauth. In 
thin elegant slices your kidneys should be cut, 
before trusting them to the melted butter in 
the frying pan ; for seasoning, add salt, pepper, 
and parsley; for thickening, flour ; for strength, 
a tablespoonful or more of stock ; for stimulus, 
as much good claret ; then eat thereof and you 
will never repent. 



A Perfect Breakfast 21 

JDainty steps these to prepare the way for the 
breakfast's most substantial course, which, to 
be in loving sympathy with all that has gone 
before, may consist of cdtelettes de mouton au nat- 
urel. See that the cutlets be small and plump, 
well trimmed, and beaten gently, once on each 
side, with a chopper cooled in water. Dip 
them into melted butter, grill them, turning 
them but once that the juice may not be lost, 
and thank kind fate that has let you live to 
enjoy so delicious a morsel. Pommes de terre 
sauf/es rmiy be deemed chaste enough to appear 
— and disappear — at the same happy moment. 

With welcome promise of spring the feast 
may end as it began. Order a salad to follow : 
cool, quieting, encouraging. When in its per- 
fection cabbage lettuce is.to berhad, none could 
be more submissive and responsive to the woo- 
ing of oil and vinegar. Never forget to rub 
the bowl with onion, now in its first youth, ar- 
dent but less fiery than in the days to come, 
strong but less imperious. No other garniture 
is needed. The tender green of the lettuce 
leaves will blend and harmonise with the 
anemones and tulips, in old blue china or daz- 



22 A Perfect Breakfast 

zling crystal, that decorate the table's centre; 
and though grey may be the skies without, 
something of May's softness and June's radi- 
ance will fill the breakfast-room with the 
glamour of romance. 

What cheese, you ask? Suisse, of course. 
Is not the month March? Has not the tnenu, 
so lovingly devised, sent the spring rioting 
through your veins? Suisse with sugar, and 
prolong the sweet dreaming while you may. 
What if work you cannot, after thus giving the 
reins to fancy and to appetite? At least ydu 
will have had your hour of happiness. Break- 
fast is not for those who toil that they may 
dine; their sad portion is the mid-day sand- 
wich. 

Wine should be light and not too many. The 
true epicure will want but one, and he may do 
worse than let his choice fall upon Graves, 
though good Graves, alas ! is not to be had for 
the asking. Much too heavy is Burgundy for 
breakfast. If your soul yearns for red wine, 
be aristocratic in your preferences, and, like 
the Stuarts, drink Claret — a good St. Estdphe 
or St. Julien. 



A Perfect Breakfast 23 

Coffee is indispensable, and what is true of 
coffee after dinner is true as well of coffee after 
breakfast. Have it of the best, or else not at 
all. For liqueur, one of the less fervent, more 
maidenly varieties. Maraschino, perhaps, or 
Prunelle, but make sure it is the Prunelle, in 
stone jugs, that comes from Chalon-sur-Saone. 
Bring out the cigarettes — not the Egyptian or 
Turkish, with suspicion of opium lurking in 
their fragrant recesses — but the cleaner, purer 
Virginian. Then smoke until, like the Gypsy 
in Lenau's ballad, all earthly trouble you have 
smoked away, and you master the mysteries of 
Nirvana. 



TWO BREAKFASTS 

Spring is the year's playtime. Who, while 
trees are growing green and flowers are bud- 
ding, can toil with an easy conscience? Later, 
mere " use and wont" accustoms the most sensi- 
tive to sunshine and green leaves and fragrant 
blossoms. It is easy to work in the summer. 
But spring, like wine, goes to the head and 
gladdens the heart of man, so that he is fit for 
no other duty than the enjoyment of this new 
gladness. If he be human, and not a mere 
machine, he must and will choose it for the 
season of his holiday. 

This is why in the spring the midday break- 
fast appeals with most charm. It may be 
eaten in peace, with no thought of immediate 
return to inconsiderate desk or tyrannical easel. 
A stroll in the park, a walk across the fields, or 
over the hills and far away, should be the most 
laborious labour to follow. It would be a 
crime, indeed, to eat a dainty breakfast, daint- 

25 



26 Two Breakfasts 

ily designed and served, in the bustle and ner- 
vous hurry of a working day. But when the 
sunny hours bring only new pleasure and new 
capacity for it, what better than to break their 
sweet monotony with a light, joyous feast that 
worthily plays the herald to the evening's ban- 
quet? 

It must be light, however: light as the sun- 
shine, that falls so softly on spotless white linen 
and flawless silver; gay and gracious as the 
golden daffodils in their tall glass. The table's 
ornaments should be few : would not the least 
touch of heaviness mar the effect of spring? 
Why, then, add to the daffodils? See, only, 
that they are fresh, just plucked from the cool 
green woodland, the morning dew still wet 
and shining on their golden petals, and make 
sure that the glass, though simple, is as shapely 
as Venice or Whitefriars can fashion it. 

Daffodils will smile a welcome, if radishes 
come to give them greeting; radishes, round 
and rosy and crisp; there is a separate joy in 
the low sound of teeth crunching in their crisp- 
ness. Vienna rolls (and London can now sup- 
ply them) and rich yellow butter from Devon 



Two Breakfasts 2 J 

dairies carry out the scheme of the first garden- 
like course. 

Sweeter smiles fall from the daffodils, if now 
they prove motive to a fine symphony in gold ; 
as they will if omelette aux rognons be chosen as 
second course. Do not trust the omelet to 
heavy-handed cook, who thinks it means a 
compromise between piecrust and pancake. It 
must be froth)', and strong in that quality of 
lightness which gives the keynote to the com- 
position as a whole. Enclosed within its melt- 
ing gold, at its very heart, as it were, lie the 
kidneys elegantly minced and seasoned with 
delicate care. It is a dish predestined for the 
midday breakfast, too beautiful to be wasted 
on the early, dull, morning hours ; too immate- 
rial for the evening's demands. 

Its memory will linger pleasantly, even when 
pilaff de volaille d, V Indienne succeeds, offering a 
new and more stirring symphony in the same 
radiant gold. For golden is the rice, stained 
with curry, as it encircles the pretty, soft 
mound of chicken livers, brown and delicious. 
Here the breakfast reaches its one substantial 
point ; but meat more heavy would seem vul- 



28 Two Breakfasts 

gar and gross. The curry must not be too, hot, 
but rather gentle and genial like the lovely 
May sunshine. 

Now, a pause and a contrast. Gold fades 
into green. As are the stalks to the daffodils, 
so the dish of petits pais aux laitues \.q pilaff and 
omelette. The peas are so young that no device 
need be sought to disguise their age ; later on, 
like fadejd beauty, they may have recourse to 
many a trick and a pose, but not as yet. The 
lettuce, as unsophisticated, will but emphasise 
their exquisite youth. It is a combination that 
has all the wonderful charm of infant leaves 
and tentative buds on one and the same branch 
of the spring-fired bush. 

No sweet. Would not the artifice of jellies 
and cream pall after such a succession of Na- 
ture's dear tributes? Surely the menu should 
finish as it began, in entrancing simplicity. 
Port Salut is a cheese that smells of the dairy ; 
that, for all its monastic origin, suggests the 
pink and white Hetty or Tess with sleeves well 
uproUed over curved, dimpling arms. Eat it 
with Bath Oliver biscuits, and sigh that the 
end should come so soon. Where the need to 



Two Breakfasts 29 

drag in the mummy at the close of the feast? 
The ancients were wise; with the last course 
does it not ever stare at you cruelly, with 
mocking reminder that eating, like love, hath 
an end? 

Graves is the wine to drink with daffodil- 
crowned feast — golden Graves, light as the 
breakfast, gay as the sunshine, gladdening as 
the spring itself. Coffee completes the com- 
position nobly, if it be black and strong. And 
for liqueur, Benedictine, in colour and feeling 
alike, enters most fittingly into the harmony. 
Smoke cigarettes from Virginia, that southern 
land of luxuriant spring flowers. 

There is no monotony in spring sunshine; 
why, then, let spring's breakfast always strike 
the same monotonous note? Another day, an- 
other mood, and so, as logical consequence, 
another menu. From your own garden gather 
a bunch of late tulips, scarlet and glowing, but 
cool in their shelter of long tapering leaves. 
Fill a bowl with them : it may be a rare bronze 
from Japan, or a fine piece of old Delft, or any- 
thing else, provided it be somewhat sumptuous 
as becomes the blossoms it holds. Open with 



30 Two Breakfasts 

that triumph of colour which would have en- 
chanted a Titian or a Monticelli: the roseate 
salmon of the Rhine, smoked to a turn, and cut 
in thin slices, all but transparent. It kindles 
desire and lends new zest to appetite. 

After so ardent a preparation, what better 
suited for ensuing course than aufs brouilUs aux 
pointes d'asperges? the eggs golden and fleecy as 
the clouds in the sunset's glow; the asparagus 
points imparting that exqusite flavour which is 
so essentially their own. Cloudlike, the love- 
liness gradually and gracefully disappears, as 
in a poet's dream or a painter's impression, 
and spring acquires a new meaning, a new 
power to enchant. 

Who, with a soul, could pass on to a roast or 
a big heating joint? More to the purpose is ris 
de veau a la Toulouse, the sweetbreads broiled 
with distinction, and then, in pretty fluted cais- 
sons, surrounded with Bechamel sauce and rav- 
ishing ^a^ozJ/ of mushrooms and cock's combs. 
They are light as a feather, but, still a trifle 
flamboyant in honour of the tulips, while the 
name carries with it gaiety from the gay south- 
ern town of the Jeux Floraux. 



Two Breakfasts 31 

Next, a salad is not out of place. Make it 
of tomatoes, scarlet and stirring, like some 
strange tropical blossoms decking the shrine of 
the sun. Just a suspicion of shallot in the 
bowl ; the perfect dressing of vinegar and oil, 
pepper and salt; and the luxuriant tropics 
could not yield a richer and more fragrant 
offering. It is a salad that vies with Cleopatra 
in its defiance to custom. Love for it grows 
stronger with experience. The oftener it is 
enjoyed the greater the desire to enjoy it again. 

Why, then, venture to destroy the impres- 
sion it leaves with the cloying insipidity of 
some ill-timed sweet? It is almost too early 
for strawberries worth the eating, save in a 
macidoine, and they alone would come next in 
order, without introducing an element of con- 
fusion in the well-proportioned breakfast of 
spring. A savoury, too, would, at this special 
juncture, have its drawbacks. Cheese again 
best fulfils the conditions imposed. But now, 
something stronger, something more definite 
than Port Salut is called for; if Camembert 
prove the cheese of your choice, there will be 
no chance for criticism. One warning : see that 



32 Two Breakfasts 

it is ripe ; for the Camembert that crumbles in 
its dryness is nothing short of iniquitous. 

Tulips and tomatoes point to Claret as the 
wine to be drunk. Burgundy is for the even- 
ing, when candles are lighted, and the hours of 
dreaming have begun. St Est^phe, at noon, 
has infinite merit, and responds to the tulip's 
call with greater warmth than any white wine, 
whether from the vineyards of France or Ger- 
many, of Hungary or Italy. Coffee, as a mat- 
ter of course, is to the elegantly-designed 
breakfast what the Butterfly is to the Nocturne. 
And when all is said, few liqueurs accord with 
it so graciously as Cognac; that is, if the dishes 
to precede it have tended to that joyful flam- 
boyancy born of the artist's exuberance in mo- 
ments of creation. 

Eat either breakfast, or both ; and be thank- 
ful that spring comes once a year. 



THE SUBTLE SANDWICH 

If things yield themselves unto our mercy 
why should we not have the fruition of them, 
or apply them to our advantage? From evil, 
good may come ; from the little, springs great- 
ness. A reckless gamester, to defy the pangs 
of hunger, which might drag him from his be- 
loved cards, brings to the gaming table slices 
of bread with ham between. If other men 
despise — ^or deplore, according to their passing 
mood — his folly, to their own pleasure and 
profit can they still turn his invention. The 
sandwich has become a universal possession for 
all time, though for a century the earl who 
created it has lain dead. His foibles should be 
forgotten, his one redeeming virtue remem- 
bered. For him a fair and spacious niche in 
the world's Valhalla. 

A hero indeed is he who left the sandwich as 
an heirloom to humanity. It truly is the stafiE 
3 33 



34 The Subtle Sandwich 

of life, a substantial meal for starving traveller 
or bread-winner ; but none the less an incom- 
parable work of art, a joy to the gourmand of 
fancy and discretion. The very name has 
come to be a pregnant symbol of holiday-mak- 
ing for all with souls to stir at the thought of 
food. and drink. It is an inexhaustible' stimu- 
lus to the imagination ; to the memory a tender 
guide to the past's happiest days and hours. 

For, in fancy, between the slices of bread, 
place thick, uncompromising pieces of beef or 
mutton, and to the Alps you are at once trans- 
ported. Again, on the short, fragrant grass 
you sit ; from its temporary snow-grave a little 
above, Perren or Imboden fetches the bottle of 
wine, ordinary enough in reality, nectar as you 
drink it there ; Seller's supplies you take from 
the faithful knapsack, opening paper package 
after paper package; and your feast of big, 
honest, no-nonsense-about-them sandwiches you 
devour with the appetite of a schoolboy, and the 
zeal of the convert to plain living and high 
mountain climbing. 

Or, thin the slices, make them the covering 
for ham and tongue, or — if you be greatly fa- 



The Subtle Sandwich 3$ 

voTired — for sardines and anchovies ; and then 
memory will spread for you the banquet in the 
pleasant pastures that border the Cam, the wil- 
lows bowering you from the August sun with 
shade, your boat moored to the cool bank ; and 
with Claret cup, poured, mayhap, into old col- 
lege tankards, you quench your thirst, while 
lazily you listen to the distant plashing of oars 
and lowing of kine, and all life drifts into an 
idle dream. 

Or, the ham of Bayonne, the pdtd de foie gras 
of Perigueux, you bury in the deep recesses of 
a long, narrow, qx'\s^ petit pain, and then, quick 
in a French railway carriage will you find your- 
self: a bottle of wine is at your side; the Echo 
de Paris lies spread on the seat before you ; out 
of the window long lines of poplars go march- 
ing with you toward Paris, whither you are 
bound " to make the feast." 

Grim and gruesome, it may be, are some of 
the memories evoked: ill-considered excursions 
to the bar of the English railway station, hasty 
lunches in chance bun shops, foolish testings of 
"ham and beef" limitations. But, henceforth, 
take heed to chasten your experience with the 



36 The Subtle Sandwich 

sandwich, that remembrance may not play you 
such scurvy tricks. Treat it aright with under- 
standing and respect, and it will keep you in 
glad holiday humour, in the eating thereof as 
in the memory. 

Life, alas! is not all play in Thames sun- 
shine and keen Alpine air, or in hopeful jour- 
neying through the pleasant land of France. 
But in the everyday of stern work and doleful 
dissipation the sandwich is an ally of infalli- 
ble trustworthiness and infinite resources. In 
the hour of need it is never found wanting. 
To dine well, authorities have proclaimed in 
ex caihedrd utterance, you must lunch lightly; 
but not, therefore, does it follow that the light 
luncheon should be repellently prosaic. Let it 
be dainty — a graceful lyric — that it may fill you 
with hope of the coming dinner. And lyrical 
indeed is the savoury sandwich, well cut and 
garnished, served on rare faience or old sil- 
ver; a glass, or perhaps two, of Bordeaux of 
some famous vintage, to strengthen its subtle 
flavour. 

An ally again at afternoon tea it proves, if at 
five o'clock drink tea you must; a mistake, 



The Subtle Sandwich 37 

surely, if you value your dinner. To belittle 
the excellence of crumpets and muffins well 
toasted, would be to betray a narrow mind' and 
senseless prejudice;' but these buttery, greasy 
delicacies in private should be eaten, where 
the ladies of Cranford sucked their oranges. 
And at the best their excellence is homely. 
In the sandwich well devised is something 
exotic and strange, some charm elusive and 
mysterious. 

But let not the sandwich be of ham, except 
rarely, for the etherealized luncheon, the mys- 
tic tea. Reserve this well-meaning, but un- 
poetic, viand for the journey and the day of 
open-air sport, to which so admirably it is 
fitted. Nor so reserving it, will you be ham- 
pered in making what Dumas calls tartines a 
VAnglaise. Infinity is at your disposal, if you 
be large and liberal enough to grasp the fact. 
One hundred numbered the varieties known to 
that genius of Glasgow, who, for his researches, 
has been honored by a place in dictionary and 
Encyclopaedia. To these you may add, if time 
and leisure you find for a trip to Budapest and 
the famous Kiigler's, where, with your tea, will 



38 The Subtle Sandwich 

be served such exquisite sandwiches, so origi- 
nal and many in their devices that you can but 
come away marvelling, in all eagerness to em- 
ulate the artist who designed them. 

For the luncheon sandwich, choose from the 
countless treasures of the sea. Rapture is in 
the sardine, not the oiled from France, but the 
smoked from Norway; tunny fish or anchovies 
are dreams of delight; caviar, an ecstacy, the 
more delicious if a dash of lemon juice be 
added. And, if you would know these in per- 
fection, use brown bread instead of white. 
Salmon is not to be scorned, nor turbot to be 
turned from in contempt; they become tri- 
umphs if you are not too niggardly with cay- 
enne pepper; triumphs not unknown to Cheap- 
side. Nor are the various so-called creams — 
of shrimps, of lobster, of salmon — altogether to 
be despised, and they, too, the better prove for 
the judicious touch of cayenne. But confine not 
your experiments to the conventional or the 
recommended. Overhaul the counter of the 
fishmonger. Set your wits to work. Cultivate 
your artistic instincts. Invent! Create! Many 
are the men who have painted pictures: few 



The Subtle Sandwich 39 

those who have composed a new and perfect 
sandwich. 

Upon the egg> likewise, you may rely for in- 
spiration — the humble hen's e%g, or the lordly 
plover's. Hard-boiled, in thin slices (oh! the 
memories of Kugler's,. and the Russian railway 
station, and the hor d'muvres, Tartar-guarded 
sideboard, now awakened!) or well grated; by 
itself, or in endless combinations, the egg will 
ever repay your confidence. 

Upon sausage, also, you may count with lov- 
ing faith. Butterhrod mit Wurst— Wurst and 
philosophy, these are the German masterpieces. 
And here, you may visit the delicatessen shop to 
good purpose. Goose-liver, Brunswick, garlic, 
Bologna, truffled — all fulfil their highest des^ 
tiny, when in thinnest of thin slices^ you lay 
them between slices no less thin of buttered 
bread — brown or white, as artistic appropriate- 
ness suggests — a faint suspicion of mustard to 
lend them piquancy. 

Beef and mutton, when not cut in Alpine 
chunks, are comforting, and with mustard duly 
applied, grateful as well. Fowl and game, 
galantine and tongue, veal and brawn — no 



40 The Subtle Sandwich 

meat there is, whether fresh or boned or potted, 
that does not adapt itself gracefully to certain 
occasions, to certain needs. And here, again, 
be not slow to arrange new harmonies, to sug- 
gest new schemes. It should be your endeavor 
always to give style and individuality to your 
sandwiches. 

Cheese in shavings, or grated, has great merit. 
Greater still has the cool cucumber, fragrant 
from its garden ground, the unrivalled tomato, 
the crisp, sharp mustard and cress. Scarce a 
green thing growing that will not lend itself to 
the true artist in sandwich-making. Lettuce, 
celery, water-cress, radishes — not one may you 
not test to your own higher happiness. And 
your art may be measured by your success in 
proving the onion to be the poetic soul of the 
sandwich, as of the salad bowl. For afternoon 
tea the dainty green sandwich is the daintiest 
of them all. 

If to sweets your taste incline, then easily 
may you be gratified, though it be a taste 
smacking of the nursery and the schoolroom. 
Jams and marmalades you may press into ser- 
vice ; chocolate or candied fruit. And sponge 



The Subtle Sandwich 41 

cake may take the place of bread, and, with 
strawberries between, you have the American 
strawbetry short-cake. 

But, whatever your sandwich, above all 
things see that its proportions be delicate and 
symmetrical ; that it please the eye before ever 
the first fragment has passed into the mouth. 



A PERFECT DINNER 

Fashion and art have little in common. Save 
for chance, they would remain always as the 
poles apart. The laws of the one are transitory, 
of the other eternal ; and as irreconcilable are 
they in the observance. Make then your choice 
between them, since no man may serve two 
masters. 

Know that if ever the noble art of cookery 
be wrecked, it will be upon the quicksands of 
Fashion. In many ways is it threatened by 
the passing mode, but, above all others, one 
danger looms up before it, grim, relentless, 
tragic : the more awful because, to the thought- 
less, at first it seems sweet as siren's singing. 
It is an evil born of the love of display and of 
the keen competition between Fashion's vota- 
ries. For they who would pose as delicate 
diners, think to eclipse their rivals by number 
of courses and bewildering variety. How to 
prolong the menu, rather than how to perfect it 
43 



44 A Perfect Dinner 

is their constant stud)'. In excess they would 
emulate the banquets of the ancients, though 
they are too refined by far to revive the old 
vomitories — the indispensable antidote. Dish 
follows dish, conceit is piled upon conceit; and 
with what result? Before dinner is half over, 
palates are jaded, " fine shades" can no more be 
appreciated, every new course awakens fear of 
the morrow's indigestion. Or else, pleasure is 
tempered by caution, a melancholy compro 
mise; nothing is really eaten, the daintiest 
devices are but trifled with, and dinner is de- 
graded into a torture fit for Tantalus. Surely, 
never was there a more cruel, fickle mistress 
than Fashion ! Sad, immeasurably sad, the fate 
of her worshippers. 

Art despises show, it disdains rivalry, and it 
knows not excess. A Velasquez or a Whistler 
never overloads his canvas for the sake of gor- 
geous detail. To the artist in words, superflu- 
ous ornament is the unpardonable sin. And so 
with the lovers of Gasterea, the tenth and fairest 
of the Muses. Better by far Omar Khayyam's 
jug of wine and loaf of bread, if both be good, 



A Perfect Dinner 45 

lus. Who would hesitate between the feasts of 
Heliogabalus and the frugal fowl and the young 
kid, the raisins, figs, and nuts of Horace? 

It matters not how many courses between 
oysters and coffee Fashion may decree, if, turn- 
ing your back upon her and her silly preten- 
sions, you devise a few that it will be a privi- 
lege for your guests to eat, a joy for them to 
remember. Bear in mind the master's model 
luncheon and its success. No menu could have 
been simpler; none more delicious. The table 
was laid for three, a goodly number, for all the 
slurs cast upon it. At each plate were "two 
dozen oysters with a bright golden lemon; at 
each end of the table stood a bottle of Sauterne, 
carefully wiped all except the cork, which 
showed unmistakably that it was long since the 
wine had been bottled." After the oysters 
roasted kidneys were served ; next, truffled foie- 
grasj then the famous fondue, the beautiful 
arrangement of eggs beaten up with cheese, 
prepared over a chafing-dish at table, stimu- 
lating appetite by all the delights of anticipa- 
tion. Fruit followed, and coffee ; and last, two 
liniiMirs " nnp a snirit tn olear and the other 



46 A Perfect Dinner 

an oil, to soothe." Be not content to read, 
but go and do likewise ! 

Imagine a dinner planned on the same pat- 
tern, and the conventional banquet of the day 
soon will seem to you the monstrosity it is. 
Observe two all-important rules and you may 
not wander far wrong. One is to limit the 
number of courses ; the other to serve first the 
substantial dishes, then those that are lighter, 
first the simpler wines, afterwards those of finer 
flavours. 

The hors d'ceuvre, however, is an exception. 
If too substantial it would defeat its end. It 
must whet the appetite, not blunt it. In its 
flavour must its strength lie ; at once keen and 
subtle, it should stimulate, but. never satisfy. 
An anchovy salad touches perfection ; the an- 
chovies — the boneless species from France — the 
olives skilfully stoned, the capers in carefully 
studied proportions, the yellow of the egg well 
grated, the parsley, chopped fine, must be ar- 
ranged by an artist with a fine feeling for deco- 
rative effect, and the dressing of oil, vinegar, 
pepper, and salt, poured gently over the design 
so as not to destroy the poetry of line and col- 



A Perfect Dinner 47 

our. A erisp Vienna roll, with sweet fresh 
butter, makes an excellent accompaniment, but 
one to be enjoyed in moderation. 

Crime Soubise is the soup to follow. Thick, 
creamy, onion-scented, the first spoonful en- 
chants, and a glamour is at once cast over 
dinner and diners. Sufficing in itself, it needs 
neither Parmesan nor toast to enhance its mer- 
its. Like a beautiful woman, unadorned it is 
adorned the most. 

Admirably, it prepares the way for oysters, 
deftly scalloped, with shallots and fragrant 
bouquet garni to lend them savour, and bread 
crumbs to form a rich golden-brown outer 
covering. If not unmindful of the eye's pleas- 
ure, you will make as many shells as there are 
guests serve the purpose of a single dish. 

Without loitering or dallying with useless 
entries, come at once to the one substantial 
course of the pleasant feast — and see that it be 
not too substantial. Avoid the heavy, clumsy, 
unimaginative joint. Decide rather for idyllic, 
Tournedos aux Champignons ; the fillet tender and- 
saignant, as the French say, the mushrooms, not 
of the little button variety, suggesting tins or 



48 A Perfect Dinner 

bottles, but large and black and fresh from the 
market. Rapture is their inevitable sauce: 
rapture too deep for words. To share the same 
p\&tepommes souffldes may be found worthy. 

None but the irreverent would seek to blur 
their impressions by eating other meats after 
so delectable a dish. Order, rather, a -vege- 
table salad, fresh and soothing: potatoes, cauli- 
flower, carrots, celery, a suspicion of garlic, 
and a sprinkling of parsley. Eat slowly; fool- 
ish is the impatient man who gallops through 
his pleasures in hot haste. 

And now, he bold, defy convention, and do 
away with sweets. After so tender a poem, 
who could rejoice in the prose of pudding? 
But " a last course at dinner, wanting cheese, 
is like a pretty woman with only one eye." 
Therefore, unless you be blind to beauty, let 
cheese be served. Port Salut will do as well 
as another; neither too strong nor too mild, it 
has qualities not to be prized lightly. 

Fruit is the sweet envoy to the Ballade of Din- 
ner. And of all winter's fruits, the fragrant, 
spicy little Tangerine orange is most delicious 
and suggestive. Its perfume alone, to those 



A Perfect Dinner 49 

who have dined discreetly, is a magic pass to 
the happy land of dreams. Conversation ral- 
lies, wit flashes, confidences are begotten over 
walnuts and almonds, and so, unless in surly, 
taciturn mood — as who could be after so' ex- 
quisite a dinner? — let these have a place upon 
your menu. 

See that your wines are as perfect of their 
kind as your courses. Too many would be a, 
dire mistake. A good Sauterne, a light Bur- 
gundy will answer well if "of the first quality." 
Cheap, or of a poor vintage, they will ruin the 
choicest dish. 

Upon coffee, too, much depends. It must be 
strong, it must be rich, it must be hot. But 
strength and richness may not be had unless it 
be fresh roasted and ground. Worse a hundred- 
fold you may do than to mix Mocha with My- 
sore ; theirs is one of the few happy unions. If 
romance have charm for you, then finish with a 
little glass of green Chartreuse — the yellow is 
for the feeble and the namby-pamby; powerful, 
indeed, is the spell it works, powerful and 
ecstatic. 

And having thus well and wisely dined, the 
4 



go A Perfect Dinner 

cares of life will slip from you ; its vexations 
and annoyances will dwindle into nothingness. 
Serene, at peace with yourself and all mankind, 
you may then claim as your right the txue joys 
of living. 



AN AUTUMN DINNER 

Why sigh if summer be done, and already 
grey skies, like a pall, hang over fog-choked 
London town? The sun may shine, wild winds 
may blow, but every evening brings with it the 
happy dinner hour. With the autupm days 
foolish men play at being pessimists, and talk 
in platitudes of the cruel fall of the leaf and 
death of love. And what matter? May they 
not still eat and drink? May they not still 
know that most supreme of all joys, the perfect 
dish perfectly served? Small indeed is the evil 
of a broken heart compared to a coarsened pal- 
ate or disordered digestion. 

" Therefore have we cause to be merry ! — and 
to cast away all care." Autumn has less to 
distract from the pleasure that never fails. 
The glare of foolish sunlight no longer lures to 
outdoor debauches, the soft breath of the south 
wind no longer breathes hope of happiness in 
Arcadian simplicity. We can sit in peace by 
51 



52 An Autumn Dinner 

our fireside, and dream dreams of a long suc- 
cession of triumphant menus. The touch of 
frost in the air is as a spur to the artist's inven- 
tion ; it quickens ambition, and stirs to loftier 
aspiration. The summer languor is dissipated, 
and with the re-birth of activity is re-awakened 
desire for the delicious, the piquante, the fan- 
tastic. 

Let an autumn dinner then be created! 
dainty, as all art must be, with that elegance 
and distinction and individuality without which 
the masterpiece is not. Strike the personal 
note ; forswear commonplace. 

The glorious, unexpected overture shall be 
soupe aux monks. For this great advantage it 
can boast : it holds the attention not only in the 
short — all too short — moment of eating, but 
from early in the morning of the eventful day; 
nor does it allow itself to be forgotten as the 
eager hours race on. At eleven — and the heart 
leaps for delight as the clock strikes— the /<?/- 
au-feu is placed upon the fire; at four, tomatoes 
and onions — the onions white as the driven 
snow — communing in all good fellowship in 
a worthy saucepan follow ; and at five, after an 



An Autumn Dinner 53 

hour's boiling, they are strained through a 
sieve, peppered, salted, and seasoned. And 
now is the time for the mussels, swimming in 
a sauce made of a bottle of white wine, a bou- 
quet-garni, carrot, excellent vinegar, and a glass 
of ordinary red wine, to be offered up in their 
turn, and some thirty minutes will suffice for 
the ceremony. At this critical point, bouillon, 
tomatoes, and mussels meet in a proper pot 
well rubbed with garlic, and an ardent quarter 
of an hour will consummate the union. As 
you eat, something of the ardour becomes 
yours, and in an ecstasy the dinner begins. 

Sad indeed would it prove were imagination 
exhausted with so promising a prelude. Each 
succeeding course must lead to new ecstasy, 
else will the dinner turn out the worst of fail- 
ures. In turbot au gratin, the ecstatic possibil- 
ities are by no means limited. In a chaste 
silver dish, make a pretty wall of potatoes, 
which have been beaten to flour, enlivened 
with pepper and salt, enriched with butter and 
cream — cream thick and fresh and altogether 
adorable — seasoned with Parmesan cheese, and 
left on the stove for ten minutes, neither more 



54 ^n Autumn Dinner 

nor less; let the wall enclose layers of turbot, 
already cooked and in pieces, of melted butter 
and of cream, with a fair covering of bread- 
crumbs; and rely upon a quick oven to com- 
plete the masterpiece. 

After so pretty a conceit, where would be 
the poetry in heavy joints or solid meats? Ris 
de veau aux (ruffes surely would be more in sym- 
pathy; the sweetbreads baked and browned 
very tenderly, the sauce fashioned of truffles 
duly sliced, marsala, lemon juice, salt and 
paprika, with a fair foundation of benevolent 
bouillon. And with so exquisite a dish no dis- 
turbing vegetable should be served. 

And after? If you still hanker for the roast 
beef and horseradish of Old England, then go 
and gorge yourself at the first convenient res- 
taurant. Would you interrupt a symphony that 
the orchestra might play " God save the Queen"? 
Would you set the chorus in " Atalanta in Caly- 
don" to singing odes by Mr. Alfred Austen? 
There is a place for all things, and the place 
for roast beef is not on the ecstatic menu. 
Grouse, rather, would meet the diner's mood — 
grouse with memories of the broad moor and 



An Autumn Dinner 55 

purple heather. Roast them at a clear fire, 
basting them with maternal care. Remember 
that they, as well as pheasants and partridges, 
should " have gravy in the dish and bread-sauce 
in a cup." Their true affinity is less the vege- 
table, however artistically prepared, than the 
salad, serenely simple, that discord may not be 
risked. Not this the time for the bewildering 
macMoine, or the brilliant tomato. Choose, in- 
stead, lettuce; crisp cool Romaine by choice. 
Sober restraint should dignify the dressing ; a 
suspicion of chives may be allowed ; a sprink- 
ling of well-chopped tarragon leaves is indis- 
pensable. Words are weak to express, but the 
true poet strong to feel the loveliness now fast 
reaching its climax. 

It is autumn, the mood is fantastic : a sweet, 
if it tend not to the vulgarity of heavy puddings 
and stodgy pies, will introduce an amusing, a 
sprightly element. Omelette souffle'e claims the 
privilege. But it must be light as air, all but 
ethereal in substance, a mere nothing to melt 
in the mouth like a beautiful dream. And yet 
in melting it must yield a flavour as soft as the 
fragrance of flowers, and as evanescent. The 



$6 An Autumn Dinner 

sensation must be but a passing one that piques 
the curiosity and soothes the excited palate. 
A dash of orange-flower water, redolent of the 
graceful days that are no more, another of wine 
from Andalusian. vineyards, and the sensation 
may be secured. 

By the law of contrasts the vague must give 
way to the decided. The stirring, glorious 
climax after the brief, gentle interlude, will be 
had yn. canape des olives farcies, the olives stuffed 
with anchovies and capers, deluged with cay- 
enne, prone on their beds of toast and girded 
about with astonished watercress. 

Fruit will seem a graceful afterthought; 
pears all golden, save where the sun, a passion- 
ate lover, with his kisses set them to blushing 
a rosy red ; grapes, purple and white and vo- 
luptuous; figs, overflowing with the exotic 
sweetness of their far southern home ; peaches, 
tender and juicy and desirable. To eat is to 
eschew all prose, to spread the wings of the 
soul in glad poetic flight. What matter, in- 
deed, if the curtains shut out stormy night or 
monstrous fog? 

Rejoice that no blue ribbon dangles unneces- 



An Autumn Dinner 57 

sarily and ignominiously at your buttonhole. 
Wine, rich wine to sing in the glass with 
"odorous music," the autumn dinner demands,, 
Burgundy, rich red Burgundy, it should be; 
Beaune or Pomard as you will, to fire the blood 
and set the fancy free. And let none other but 
yourself warm it; study its temperature as the 
lover might study the frowns and smiles of his 
beloved. And the " Spirit of Wine" will sing 
in your hearts that you too may triumph 

In the savour and scent of his music. 
His magnetic and mastering song. 

And the Burgundy will make superfluous Port 
and Tokay, and all the dessert wines, sweet or 
dry, which unsympathetic diners range before 
them upon the coming of the fruit. 

Drink nothing else until wineglass be pushed 
aside for cup of coffee, black and sweet pf sa- 
vour, a blend of Mocha and Mysore. Rich, 
thick, luxurious, Turkish coffee would be a 
most fitting epilogue. But then, see that you 
refuse the more frivolous, feminine liqueurs. 
Cognac, old and strong-hearted, alone would 
meet the hour's emotions — Cognac, the gift of 



58 An Autumn Dinner 

the gods, the immortal liquid. Lean back and 
smoke in silence, unless speech, exchanged 
with the one kind spirit, may be golden and 
perfect as the dinn.T. 



A MIDSUMMER DINNER 

At midsummer, the gourmand subsists chiefly 
on hope of the good time coming. The 12th 
ushers in season of glorious plenty. , But, for 
the moment, there is a lull in the market's 
activity. Green things there are in abun- 
dance; but upon green things alone it is not 
good for man to live. Consult the oracle; turn 
to the immortal, infallible "Almanack," and 
confirmation of this sad truth will stare you in 
the face plainly, relentlessly. Sucking-pig is 
sole consolation offered by benevolent De la 
Reynifere to well-nigh inconsolable man. But 
what a poem in the sucking-pig that gambols 
gaily over his pages : a delicious roasted crea- 
ture, its little belly stuffed full of liver and 
truffles and mushrooms, capers, anchovies, 
aromatic pepper, and salt, all wrought together 
into one elegant farce; while in dish apart, as 
indispensable acolyte, an orange sauce waits to 
complete the masterpiece ! En daube, this ami- 
59 



6o A Midsummer Dinner 

able little beast is not to be despised, nor en 
ragoiit need it be dismissed with disdain, though, 
let man of letters beware ! The Society of Au- 
thors, with his welfare at heart, should warn 
him while still there is time. What zest might 
be given to the savourless Author, their organ, 
were its columns well filled with stately and 
brilliant discourses upon food and good eating. 
How the writer of delicate perceptions should 
eat: is that not, as subject, prettier and more 
profitable far than how much money he can 
make by publishing here and lecturing there? 

The poor gourmand, in sorry plight during 
midsummer's famine, may seek blessed light 
also from Filippini, Delmonico's cook. Out of 
the fulness of his heart he speaketh, leaving 
not one of August's thirty-one shortening days 
without elaborate menu. But London must fast 
while New York feasts. At Delmonico's, happy 
diners may smile gracious welcome to Lima 
beans and sweet corn, to succotash and egg- 
plant, to chicken h I'okra and clam chowder, 
but what hope for the patrons of Verrey's and 
Nichol's? What hope, unless, forthwith, they 



A Midsummer Dinner 6i 

broad Atlantic? For the rest, Filippini reveals 
not the originality, the invention that one 
would have hoped from him, even at the season 
when men are struck dead by the sun in the 
streets of his dear town of adoption. Roast 
turkey, with cranberry sauce, is suggestive of 
November's drear days; Brussels sprouts sum 
up greengrocers' resources in midwinter. But 
why falter? . Hope need never be abandoned 
by the wise, whose faith is strong in himself. 

The season presents diflHculties, but the beau- 
tiful dinner may still be designed. To meet 
August's flaming mood, it should be rich, and 
frankly voluptuous. Let flowers that bespeak 
autumn's approach and the fulness of harvest 
give the dinner its keynote. In Delft bowl, of 
appropriate coarseness, heap the late summer's 
first dahlias, all scarlet and gold as London's 
sunset at the fall of the year. To the earth's, 
ripeness and fertility their bold, unabashed 
hues bear loud and triumphant witness. 

Let the soup be at once tribute and farewell 
to spring that has gone. Regret will be lux* 
uriously expressed in pur^e de petits pais j spinach 
added to the fresh peas to lend flavour and col- 



62 A Midsummer Dinner 

our, a dash of sugar for sweetness' sake, a pinch 
oi paprika to counteract it, a suspicion of onion 
to strengthen it. Arrowroot, in discreet meas- 
ure, will answer for thickening, and impart 
more becoming consistency even than iiour. 
Pleasure in the eating will be tempered by sor- 
row in the prospect of parting, and therefore 
intensified a hundredfold. Where the joy in 
possession but for the ever-present fear of loss ? 

With the second course, banish regret. For- 
get yesterday; be indifferent to to-morrow; 
revel riotously in to-day. Hure de saumon d, la 
CambacMs will point out the way to supreme 
surrender. Close to the head, the delicate 
silver-rose of the fish must be cut in lavish pro- 
portions; braised gently, its removal to the 
dish that is waiting is signal to surround it 
with trufHes and mushrooms and stoned olives 
— garland beyond compare ; a sauce of drawn 
butter, seasoned with paprika and lemon juice 
and parsley, is essential accompaniment. And 
now the present truly has conquered ! 

The third course must not betray the sec- 
ond's promise. Gay and fantastic, it must be 



A Midsummer Dinner 63 

Rognons d'agneau d. Vipicurienne enters nobly into 
the breach ; the lamb's dainty kidneys are split 
and grilled with decorum, their fragrant cen- 
tres are adorned with sympathetic sauce Tartare, 
golden potatoes h la Parisienne insist upon serv- 
ing as garniture, and Mr. Senn demands, as 
finishing touch, the stimulating seduction of 
sauce Poivrade. Who now will say that August 
is barren of delicious devices? 

To follow : poulet sauti ti V Hongroise, the clash 
of the Czardas captured and imprisoned in a 
stew-pan. With the Racoczy's wild drumming 
stirring memory into frenzy, stew the fowl, 
already cut into six willing pieces, with butter, 
a well-minced onion, pepper— /a/n>Jfl by choice 
— and salt ; ten minutes will suffice — how, in- 
deed, endure the strain a second longer? Then 
to the notes of the cymbal, moisten with Bicha- 
mel sauce and fa'ir quantity of cream, and re- 
joice in the fine Romany rapture for just twenty 
minutes more. Decorate with croutons, and send 
fancy, without fetters, wandering across the 
plains and over the mountains of song-bound 
Magyarland. To play the gypsy, free as the 



64 A Midsummer Dinner 

this as it should be in the month, more than 
all others, pledged to pleinairisme i Insipid, as 
life without love, is the dinner without imagina- 
tion. 

Vegetables have no special place in the 
scheme of August's dinner. But a salad will 
not come amiss. Remember, the feast is or- 
dered in sheer voluptuousness of spirit. The 
fifth course calls for the scarlet splendour of 
tomatoes; and the presiding dahlias, in bowl 
of Delft, clamour for the gold of mayonnaise 
sauce to carry out the exulting trumpeting 
harmony. A hint, here, to the earnest, am- 
bitious gourmand ; if cream be worked, deftly 
and slowly, into the thickening sauce, sublime 
will be the results. 

A sweet, at this juncture, would err if over- 
chaste in conception. Picture to yourself the 
absurd figure cut by tapioca pudding or apple 
dumpling on conscientiously voluptuous menu ? 
A macMoine mMngu^e would have more legiti- 
mate claim to close the banquet with distinc- 
tion. August supplies fruit without stint: 
plums and greengages and apricots and necta- 
rines and peaches and pears and grapes and 



A Midsummer Dinner 65 

bananas; all join together to sweet purpose, 
with ecstatic intent; a large wine-glass of 
Claret, a generous sprinkling of Cognac will 
guard against puerility. The protecting me- 
ringue should be crisp and pale golden brown ; 
and later it will need the reinforcement of thick 
luscious cream. 

A sweet fails to delight, unless a savoury 
comes speedily after. Caviar de Russie en cripes 
is worthy successor of* macMoine mMngu^e. 
Mingle cream with the caviar, and none who 
eats will have cause to complain. It reconciles 
to the barbarous, even where Tolstoi and Marie 
Bashkirtseff may have failed. 

To dally with fruit is graceful excuse to lin- 
ger longer over wine. Plums and greengages, 
their bloom still fresh, their plump roundness 
never yet submitted to trial by fire, figs — pale 
northern ghosts, alas! — peaches, grapes, make 
exquisite interlude — between dinner and coffee. 
Refrain not: abstinence, of all follies created 
by man, is the most wicked, the most unpar- 
donable. 

Drink Chambertin, that the song in your 
heart may be fervent and firm. Drink, that 
5 



66 A Midsummer Dinner 

your courage may be strong for the feasting. 
Shake off the shackles of timidity. Be fearless 
and brave, turning a deaf ear to the temptations 
of the temperate. To be moderate at mid- 
summer is to disregard the imperative com- 
mands of immoderate nature. 

Coffee, made as the Turks make it, will bring 
languorous, irresistible message from the sen- 
suous East. Fine Champagne will add the en- 
ergy of the fiery West. Adorable combination ! 
Oh, East is East, and West is West; but the 
twain the day of the August dinner shall meet. 



TWO SUPPERS 

Tradition is a kindly tyrant. Why then strive 
to shake off its shackles? To bow the neck 
gladly beneath the yoke is at times to win rich 
reward, first in charm of association, and then 
in pleasantness of actual fact. 

Is there not a tradition in-England that sup- 
per is more appropriate to the quiet of Sunday 
evenings than dinner ? No use to ask whence 
it arose or whither it leads. There it is, though 
many would evade it as senseless makeshrift. 
To forswear dinner for all time and eternity 
would be worse than folly; it is life's most sol- 
emn, most joyous ceremony. But once and 
again, for dear sake of contrast, to find a seduc- 
ing substitute is wisdom in a world where all 
pleasures fail, and man is constant to one 
thing never. And now that summer has come 
and holds the green earth in its ardent embrace, 
now that days are long, and sweetest hours are 
those when the sun sinks low, there is new 

fiT 



68 Two Suppers 

delight in the evening meal that leaves one 
free to dream in the twilight, that does not 
summon one indoors just as all outdoors is 
loveliest. Supper on every day in the week 
would be a mistake; but on one in seven it 
may well be commended, especially when the 
month is June. In the afternoon, tea is served 
in the garden, or whatever London can offer in 
the garden's stead. There are a few straw- 
berries in a pretty old porcelain dish to lend an 
air of dainty substance, and there is rich cream 
in which they may hide their pretty blushes; 
and there is gay talk and happy silence. In- 
dolent hours follow. Is it not Sunday, and are 
not all weekly cares pigeon-holed out of sight ? 
Nor do ths advantages of the occasional sup- 
per end here. It is excellent excuse for the 
ice-cold banquet which in the warm summer- 
time has its own immeasurable virtues. A 
supper should be cold ; else it deteriorates into 
mere sham dinner. Never do cold dishes seem 
more delicious than when cruel thermometer is 
at fever heat. You see ? There is logic in the 
Sunday evening supper, at this season of all 
seasons for love, and eating, and drinking. 



Two Suppers 69 

But supper does not mean, necessarily, veal 
and ham pie, above which British imagination 
dares not soar. It is not limited to the half- 
demolished joint — sad wreck of midday's meal. 
It may be as fair and harmonious as dinner 
itself, as noble a tribute to the artist, as superb 
a creation. Only the thoughtless and prosaic 
will dismiss it carelessly in the ordering, be- 
lieving that any odds and ends will answer. 
Whatever is left over is to many the one possi- 
ble conception of the late evening meal. But 
the gourmand, exulting in his gluttony, makes 
of it a work of art, good in the eating, good in 
the remembrance thereof. 

Summer allows wide scope for his fertile 
fancy. He may begin with salmon, refreshing 
to the eye in its arrangement of pale silver and 
rose, cold as the glaciers of Greenland after its 
long hours of repose on voluptuous bed of ice. 
A mayonnaise sauce, creamy and rich, turning 
the silver to gold, like a fairy godmother of 
legend, is the cherished accompaniment. The 
feeling of wonder, aroused in the hours of 
watching under the trees, being still upper- 
most, it will seem as if the soft hues of the 



JO Two Suppers 

afterglow had been embodied in this exquisite 
prologue, with its rose and citron, its gold and 
soft grey tints. 

Tender spring chickens may then give greet- 
ing to the summer-time. They also will have 
spent hours in close communion with solid 
blocks of ice, and will be as cool as the breezes 
that blow over the high snow fields of Switzer- 
land. For, be it noted in passing, without a 
refrigerator the perfect supper is sheer impos- 
sibility. Success depends largely upon tem- 
perature. Lukewarm supper would be as 
detestable as a lukewarm dinner. With the 
innocent chickens, chilling and chaste, a green 
salad will be as appropriate as edelweiss on 
Alpine slopes. It should be made of the hearts 
of the youngest of young cabbage lettuces, 
touched with onions, and fatigued with the one 
most admirable salad dressing that man evef 
devised. Linger as long as may be, for thiii 
surely is one of the beautiful moments that re^ 
pay the artist for his toiling and his intervals 
of despair. 

Asparagus will prove most seemly successor. 
Let it also be cold beyond suspicion. A sauce 



Two Suppers '}\ 

of vinegar and oil, pepper and salt, force it to 
yield its most subtle sweetness. It will prove 
another course to call for lingering. Unless 
happiness be realised, of what use is it to be 
happy ? He who is not conscious of pleasure 
when he eats is not worthy to sit at table with 
the elect. Like the animals, he is content to 
feed, and the art of the cook is, alas ! lost upon 
him. 

A savoury at this banquet would be superflu- 
ous. The presence of cheese would be but 
deference to convention, and faithfulness to 
tradition does not demand as its price sacrifice 
of all freedom in detail. The asparagus would 
be dishonoured were it to give place to aught 
more substantial than strawberries. Some- 
times in the day's menu, as in a decorative 
scheme, loveliness is enhanced by repetition. 
As a second curve emphasises the grace of the 
first, so strawberries at supper carry out with 
great elegance the strawberry scheme of after- 
noon ted. Pretty hillocks of sugar, and deep 
pools of cream, make a rich setting for this 
jewel among fruits. 

The wine, clearly, should be white, and it, 



^2 Two Suppers 

too, should be iced — remember the month is 
June. Few Rhine wines could consistently re- 
fuse to be pressed into service. But French 
vineyards have greater charm than German, 
though the Lorelei may sing in near waters, 
and to Graves, or Barsac, preference will be 
wisely proffered. 

Be fearful of striking a false note. See that 
the coffee, black and strong though it be, is as 
cold as wine and salmon, chicken and salad. 
And pour the green Chartreuse into glasses 
that have been first filled with crushed ice. 
And as you smoke your cigarette, ask yourself 
if the Sunday evening supper tradition be not 
one crying for preservation at all costs. 

When another week has rolled by and dis- 
appeared into the Ewigkeit, vary the menu. An 
element of the bizarre, the strange, the un- 
accustomed, often lends irresistible piquancy. 
Be faithful to the refrigerator, however fickle 
to other loves. Open the banquet with a stir- 
ring salad fashioned of red herring and pota- 
toes, and, perhaps, a few leaves of lettuce. It 
savours of the sensational, and stimulates 
appetite. 



Two Suppers 73 

That disappointment may not ensue, desert 
well-trodden paths, and,. borrowing from Ger- 
many, serve a dish of meat, amusing in its 
quaint variety. Slices of lamb may provide a 
pretty centre; surroni-ding them, scatter slices 
of the sausage of Brunswick and Bologna, here 
and there set in relief against a piece of grey 
Leberwurst. As garniture, eiiciicle the dish 
with a garland of anchovies, curled up into en- 
chanting little balls, and gherkins, and hard- 
boiled eggs cut in delicate rounds. Memories 
will crowd fast upon you as you eat; memories 
of the little German towns and their forgotten 
hilltops, visited in summers long since gone, of 
the little German inn, and the friendly land- 
lord, eager to please ; of the foaming mugs of 
beer, and the tall, slender goblets of white 
wine. Before supper is done, you will have 
travelled leagues upon leagues into the play- 
time of the past. 

Cheese now is as essential as it would have 
been intrusive in the other menu. Gruy^re 
should be your choice, and if you would have 
it of fine flavour, seek it not at the English 
cheesemonger's, but at the little German delica- 



74 Two Suppers 

tessen shop. Brown bread would best enter into 
the spirit of the feast. 

As epilogue, fruit can never be discordant, 
and what fruit in early June insists upon being 
eaten with such sweet persistency as the straw- 
berry. But, on your German evening, fatigue 
it with Kirsch, leave it on its icy couch until 
the very last minute, and memories of the 
Laperouse will mingle with those of the smoky 
inn of the Fatherland. 

Is there any question that Hock is the wine, 
when sausage and red herring and Gruyfere 
cheese iigure so prominently in the menu's com- 
position ? Drink it from tall slender glass, that 
it may take you fully into its confidence. 
Coffee need not be iced. In fact, it should 
positively be hot — can you doubt it ? And Cog- 
nac now will prove more responsive to your 
mood than Chartreuse. There is no written 
law to regulate these matters. But the true 
artist needs no code to guide him. He knows 
instinctively what is right and what is wrong, 
and doubts can never assail him. 



ON SOUP 

"When all around the wind doth blow," draw 
close the curtains, build up a roaring fire, 
light lamp and candles, and begin your dinner 
with a good — good, mind you — dish of soup. 
Words of wisdom are these, to be pondered 
over by the woman who would make her even- 
ing dinner a joyful anticipation, a cherished 
memory. 

Soup, with so much else good and great, is 
misunderstood in an England merrier than 
dainty in her feasting. Better is this matter 
ordered across the Border. For the healthy- 
minded, Scotch mists have their compensation 
in Scotch broth ; odoriferous and appetising is 
its very name. But in England, soup long 
since became synonymous with turtle, and the 
guzzling alderman of legend. Richness is 
held its one essential quality — richness, not 
strength. Too often, a thick, greasy mess, 
that could appeal but to the coarsest hunger, 
75 



76 On Soup 

will be set before you, instead of the dish that 
can be comforting and sustaining both, and yet 
meddles not with the appetite. It should be 
but a prelude to the meal — the prologue, as it 
were, to the play — its excellence, a welcome 
forecast of delights to follow, a welcome stimu- 
lus to light talk and lighter laughter. Over 
Julienne or bisque frowns are smoothed away, 
and guests who sat down to table in monosylla- 
bic gloom will plunge boldly into epigram- 
matic or anecdotic gaiety ere ever the fish be 
served. 

Magical, indeed, is the spell good soup can 
cast. Of its services as medicine or tonic, why 
speak ? Beef tea gives courage to battle with 
pain and suffering ; consommd cheers the hours 
of convalescence. Let all honour be done to it 
for its virtues in the sick-room ; but with so 
cheerful a subject, it is pleasanter to dwell on 
its more cheerful aspects. 

More legitimate is it to consider the happy 
part it plays in the traveller's programme. 
And for this — it must be repeated, as for all 
the best things in the gourmand' s life — one jour- 
neys to France. But first remember — that con- 



On Soup yj 

trast may add piquancy to the French menu — 
the fare that awaits the weary, disconsolate 
traveller at English railway station : the stodgy 
bun, Bath and penny varieties both, and the 
triangular sandwich ; the tea drawn overnight, 
and the lukewarm bovril, hopelessly inadequate 
substitute for soup freshly made from beef or 
stock. At a luncheon bar thus wickedly 
equipped, eating becomes what it never should 
be! — a sad, terrible necessity, a pleasureless 
safeguard against pangs of hunger, a mere 
animal function, and therefore a degradation 
to the human being educated to look upon food 
and drink — even so might the painter regard 
his colours, the sculptor his clay and marble— as 
means only to a perfect artistic end. 

Or, consider also, to make the contrast 
stronger, the choicest banquet American rail- 
ways, for all the famed American enterprise, 
provide. To journey by the " Pullman vesti- 
buled train " from New York to Chicago is lux- 
ury, if you will. Upon your point of view 
depends the exact amount of enjoyment yielded 
by meals eaten while you dash through the 
world at the rate of eighty miles an hour, more 



yS On Soup 

or less, and generally less. There is charm in 
the coloured waiters, each with gay flower in 
his button-hole, and gayer smile on his jolly, 
black face; there is pretence in the cheap, 
heavy, clumsy Limoges off which you eat, out 
of which you drink, in the sham silver case in 
which your Champagne bottle is brought, if 
for Champagne you are foolish enough to call. 
But bitterness is in your wine cup, for the wine 
is flat; heaviness is in your breakfast or dinner, 
for bread is underdone and sodden, and butter 
is bad, and the endless array of little plates 
discourages with its suggestion of vulgar plenty 
and artless selection ; and all is vanity and vex- 
ation, save the corn bread — the beautiful golden 
corn bread, which deserves a chapter to itself — 
and the fruit: the bananas and grapes, and 
peaches and oranges, luscious and ravishing as 
they seldom are on any but American soil. 
Nor will you mend matters by bestowing your 
patronage t:pon the railway restaurants of the 
big towns where you stop: the dirty, fly-bitten 
lunch counters. Pretentious, gorgeous, mag- 
nificent, they maybe; but good, no! All, even 
the privilege of journeying at the rate of eighty 



On Soup 79 

miles an hour, would you give for one bowl of 
good soup at the Amiens buffet. 

For, when everything is said, it is the soup 
which makes travelling so easy and luxurious 
in France. A breakfast, or a dinner, of courses, 
well-cooked, and well-served into the bargain, 
you may eat at many a wayside station. Wine, 
ordinary as its name, perhaps, but still good 
and honest, is to be had for a paltry sum when- 
ever the train may stop. Crisp rolls, light 
brioches tempt you to unwise excesses. Not a 
province, scarce a town, but has its own special 
dainty; nougat at Mont^limart, sausages at 
Aries, pdt^ de foie gras at P^rigueux ; and so you 
might go on mapping out the country according 
to, not its departments, but its dishes. These, 
however, the experienced traveller would gladly 
sacrifice for the delicate, strong, refreshing, 
inspiriting bouillon, served at every buffet. This 
it is which helps one to forget fatigue and dust 
and cinders, and the odious Frenchman who 
will have all the windows shut. Bouillon, and 
not wine, gives one new heart to face the long 
night and the longer miles. With it the day's 
journey is well begun and well ended. It sus- 



8o On Soup 

tains and nourishes; and, better still, it has its 
own aesthetic value ; perfect in itself, it is the 
one perfect dish for the place and purpose. No 
wonder, then, that it has kindled even Mr. 
Henry James into at least a show of enthusi- 
asm ; his bowls of bouillon ever remain in the 
reader's memory, the most prominent pleas- 
ures of his " Little Tour in France." 

Equally desirable in illness and in health, 
during one's journeys abroad and one's days at 
home, why is it then that soup has never yet 
been praised and glorified as it should? How 
is it that its greatness has inspired neither ode 
nor epic; that it has been left to a parody — 
clever, to be sure, but cleverness alone is not 
tribute sufficient — in a child's book to sing its 
perfections. It should be extolled, and it has 
been vilified ; insults have been heaped upon it ; 
ingratitude from man has been its portion. 
The soup tureen is as poetic as the lovingxup; 
why should it suggest but the baldest prose to 
its most ardent worshippers? 

" Thick or clear'" whispers the restaurant 
waiter in your ear, as he points to the soups on 
the bill of fare. "Thick or clear," — there you 



On Soup 8 1 

have the two all-important divisions. In that 
simple phrase is expressed the whole science of 
soupmaking; face to face with first principles 
it brings you. But whether you elect for the 
one or the other, this great fundamental truth 
there is, ever to be borne in mind: let fresh 
meat be the basis of your consomm^ as of your 
bisque, of your gumbo as of your pates d'ltalie. 
True, in an emergency, Liebig, and all its 
many offshoots, may serve you — and serve you 
well. But if you be a woman of feeling, of 
fancy, of imagination, for this emergency alone 
will you reserve your Liebig. Who would eat 
tinned pineapple when the fresh fruit is to be 
had ? Would you give bottled tomatoes prefer- 
ence when the gay pommes d" amour, just picked, 
ornament every stall in the market ? Beef ex- 
tract in skilful hands may work wonders; the 
soup made from it may deceive the connoisseur 
of great repute. But what then ? Have you 
no conscience, no respect for your art, that you 
would thus deceive ? 

Tinned soups also there be in infinite vari- 
ety, ox-tail, and mock-turtle, and Julienne, and 
gravy, and chicken broth, and many more than 



82 On Soup 

one likes to think of. But dire indeed must be 
your need before you have recourse to them. 
They, too, will answer in the hour of want. 
But at the best, they prove but make-shifts, but 
paltry make-believes to be avoided, even as you 
steer clear of the soup vegetables and herbs — 
bits of carrot and onion and turnip and who 
knows what ?— bottled ingeniously, pretty to the 
eye, without flavour to the palate. One does 
not eat to please the sense of sight alone ! 

When, heroically, you have forsworn the en- 
snaring tin and the insinuating bottle, the hori- 
zon widens before you. " Thick and clear " : 
the phrase suggests but narrow compass; broad 
beyond measure is the sphere it really opens. 

Of all the Doges of Bobbio, but one — if tra- 
dition be true — sickened of his hundred soups. 
Three hundred and sixty-five might have been 
their number with results no more disastrous. 
Given a cook of good instincts and gay imagi- 
nation, and from one year's end to the other 
never need the same soup be served a second 
time. 

A word, first, as to its proper place on the 
menu. The conservative Briton might think 



On Soup 83 

this a subject upon which the last word long 
since had been spoken. If soup at all, then 
must it appear between hors d'auvre and fish : 
as well for Catholic to question the doctrine of 
infallibility as for self-respecting man to doubt 
the propriety of this arrangement. But they 
don't know everything down in Great Britain, 
and other men there be of other minds. Order 
a dinner in the American West, and a proces- 
sion of smiling, white-robed blacks — talking, 
alas! no more the good old darkey, but pure 
American — swoop down upon you, bringing at 
once, in disheartening medley, your blue-points, 
your gumbo, your terrapin, your reed birds, and 
your apple pie. What sacrilege ! In the pleas- 
antest little restaurant in all Rome, close to 
the Piazza Colonna, within sound of the Corso, 
was once to be seen any evening in the week — 
may be still, for that matter — a bemedalled 
major finishing his dinner with his minestra in- 
stead o£his dolce. But if a fat, little grey-haired 
man once consent to wear a coat scarce longer 
than an Eton jacket, may not, in reason, worse 
enormities be expected of him ? Truth to tell, 
the British convention, borrowed from France, 



84 On Soup 

is the best. If, in good earnest, you would 
profit by your potage, give it place of honour at 
the top of the menu. Leave light and frivolous 
sweets to lighter, more frivolous moments, 
when, hunger appeased, man may unbend to 
trifles. 

What the great Alexandre calls the grand con- 
somme is the basis of all soup — and sauce mak- 
ing. Study his very word with reverence; 
carry out his every suggestion with devotion. 
Among the ingredients of this consummate 
bouillon his mighty mind runs riot. Not even 
the adventures of the immortal Musketeers 
stimulated his fancy to wilder flights. His 
directions, large and lavish as himself, would 
the economical housewife read with awe and 
something of terror. Veal and beef and fowl 
— a venerable cock will answer — and rabbit 
and partridges of yester-year ; these be no more 
than the foundation. Thrown into the marmite 
in fair and fitting proportions, then must they 
be watched, anxiously and intelligently, as 
they boil ; spoonfuls of the common bouillon 
should be poured upon them from time to time; 
there must be added onions and carrots, and 



On Soup 85 

ce,lery and parsley, and whatever aromatic 
herbs may be handy, and oil, if you have it; 
and after four hours of boiling slowly and de- 
murely over a gentle fire, and, next, straining 
through coarse linen, you may really begin to 
prepare your soup. 

If to these heights the ordinary man — or wo- 
man — may not soar, then will the good, sub- 
stantial, everyday bouillon, or pot-au-feu — made 
of beef alone, but ever flavoured with vege- 
tables — fulfil the same purpose, not so deli- 
ciously, but still fairly well. In households 
where soup is, as it should be, a daily necessity, 
stock may be made and kept for convenience. 
But if you would have your pot-au-feu in perfec- 
tion, let the saucepan, or marmitt — the English 
word is commonplace, the French term charms 
— be not of iron, but of earthenware: rich 
tawny brown or golden green in colour, as you 
see it in many a French market-place, if the 
least feeling for artistic fitness dwells within 
your soul. Seven hours are needed paw f aire 
sourire le pot-au-feu — the expression is not to be 
translated. Where soups are concerned the 
English language is poor, and cold, and halt- 



86 On Soup 

ing; the speech of France alone can honour 
them aright. 

With good bouillon there is naught the genius 
may not do. Into it the French chef puts a few 
small slices of bread, and, as you eat, you won- 
der if terrapin or turtle ever tasted better. 
With the addition of neatly-chopped carrots 
and onions, and turnips and celery, you have 
Julienne ; or, with dainty asparagus tops, sweet 
fresh peas, tiny stinging radishes, delicate 
young onions, printanier, with its suggestions of 
spring and blossoms in every mouthful. This 
' last, surely, is the lyric among soups. Decide 
upon cheese instead, and you will set a Daudet 
singing you a poem in prose: ^^ Oh! la bonne 
odeur de soupe aufromage!" Pdtes d' Italie, vermi- 
celli, macaroni, each will prove a separate ecstasy, 
if you but remember the grated Parmesan that 
must be sprinkled over it without stint — as in 
Italy. Days there be when nothing seems so 
in keeping as rice : others, when cabbage hath 
charm, that is, if first in your simmering bouil- 
lon a piece of ham — whether of York, of Stras- 
bourg, or of Virginia — be left for three hours 
or more; again, to thicken the golden liquid 



On Soup 87 

with tapioca may seem of all devices the most 
adorable. And so may you ring the changes 
day after day, week after week, month after 
month. 

If of these lighter soups you tire, then turn 
with new hope and longing to the stimulating 
list oi purees and crimes. Let tomatoes, or peas, 
or beans, or lentils, as you will, be the key- 
note, always you may count upon a harmony 
inspiriting and divine ; a rapture tenfold greater 
if it be enjoyed in some favourite corner at 
Marguery's or Voisin's, where the masterpiece 
awaits the chosen few. Or if, when London 
fogs are heavy and life proves burdensome, 
comfort is in the very name of broth, then put 
it to the test in its mutton, Scotch, chicken, or 
dozen and more varieties, and may it give you 
new courage to face the worst! 

But if for pleasure solely you eat your soup, 
as you should, unless illness or the blue devils 
have you firm in their grasp, a few varieties 
there be which to all the rest are even as is the 
rose to lesser flowers, as is the onion to vege- 
tables of more prosaic virtue. Clams are a joy 
if you add to them but salt and pepper — cay- 



88 On Soup 

enne by preference — and a dash of lemon juice; 
as a chowder, they are a substantial dream to 
linger over; but made into soup they reach 
the very topmost bent of their being: it is the 
end for which they were created. Of oysters 
this is no less true. Veal stock or mutton broth 
may pass as prosaic basis of the delicacy ; but 
better depend upon milk and cream, and of the 
latter be not sparing. Mace, in discreet meas- 
ure, left flowing in the liquid will give the 
finishing, the indispensable touch. Oh, the 
inexhaustible resources of the sea ! With these 
delights rank bisque, that priceless purde, made 
of crayfish — in this case a pinch of allspice 
instead of mace — and if in its fullest glory you 
would know it, go eat it at the Laperouse on 
the Qugi des Grands Augustins ; eat it, as from 
the window of the low room in the entresol, you 
look over toward the towers of Notre Dame. 

Be a good Catholic on Fridays, that, with 
potages maigres — their name, too, is legion — 
your soups may be increased and multiplied, 
and thus infinity become your portion. 



THE SIMPLE SOLE 

Have you ever considered the sole: the sim- 
ple, unassuming sole, in Quaker-like garb, 
striking a quiet grey note in every fishmonger's 
window, a constant rebuke to the mackerel that 
makes such vain parade of its green audacity, 
of the lobster that flaunts its scarlet boldness 
in the face of the passer-b)' ? By its own merits 
the sole appeals; upon no meretricious charm 
does it base its claim for notice. Flat and elu- 
sive, it seems to seek retirement, to beg to be 
forgotten. And yet, year by year, it goes on, 
unostentatiously and surely increasing in price ; 
year by year, it establishes, with firm hold, its 
preeminence upon the menu of every well-regu- 
lated table d'hSte. 

But here pause a moment, and reflect. For 
it is this very table d'hdte which bids fair to be 
the sole's undoing. If it has been maligned 
and misunderstood, it is because, swaddled in 
bread-crumbs, fried in indifferent butter, it has 



go The Simple Sole 

come to be the symbol of hotel or pension din- 
ner, until the frivolous and heedlesss begin to 
believe that it cannot exist otherwise, that in 
its irrepressible bread-crumbs it must swim 
through the silent sea. 

The conscientious gourmand knows better, 
however. He knows that bread-crumbs and 
frying-pan are but mere child's play compared 
to its diviner devices. It has been said that 
the number and various shapes of fishes are not 
"'more strange or more fit for contemplation 
than their different natures, inclinations, and 
actions." But fitter subject still for the con- 
templative, and still more strange, is their 
marvellous, well-nigh limitless, culinary am- 
bition. Triumph after triumph the most mod- 
est of them all yearns to achieve, and if this 
sublime yearning be ever and always sup- 
pressed and thwarted and misdoubted, the fault 
lies with dull, plodding, unenterprising hu- 
mans. Not one yearns to such infinite purpose 
as the sole; not one is so snubbed and enslaved. 
A very Nora among fish, how often must it long 
to escape and to live its own life — or, to be 
more accurate, to die its own death ! 



The Simple Sole 91 

Not that bread-crumbs and £r3'ing-pan are 
not all very well in their way. Given a dis- 
creet cook, pure virginal butter, a swift fire, 
and a slice of fresh juicy lemon, something not 
far short of perfection may be reached. But 
other ways there are, more suggestive, more 
inspiring, more godlike. Turn to the French 
chef and learn wisdom from him. 

First and foremost in this glorious repertory 
comes sole a la Normande, which, under another 
name, is the special distinction and pride of the 
Restaurant Marguery. Take your sole — from 
the waters of Dieppe would you have the best 
— and place it, with endearing, lover-like ca- 
ress, in a pretty earthenware dish, with butter 
for only companion. At the, same time, in 
sympathetic saucepan, lay mussels to the num- 
ber of two dozen, opened and well cleaned, as 
a matter of course ; and let each rejoice in the 
society of a stimulating mushroom; when al- 
most done, but not quite, make of them a gar- 
land round the expectant sole ; cover their too 
seductive beauty with a rich white sauce ; re- 
kindle their passion in the oven for a few min- 
utes; and serve immediately and hot. Joy is 



92 The Simple Sole 

the result ; pure, uncontaminated joy. If this 
be too"simple for your taste, then court elabora- 
tion and more complex sensation after this 
fashion : from the first, unite the sole to two of 
its most devoted admirers, the oyster and the 
mussel — twelve, say, of each — and let thyme 
and fragrant herbs and onion and white wirie 
and truffles be close witnesses of their union. 
Seize the sole when it is yet but half cooked ; 
stretch it out gently in another dish, to which 
oysters and mussels must follow in hot, precip- 
itate flight. And now the veiling sauce, again 
white, must have calf's kidney and salt pork 
for foundation, and the first gravy of the fish 
for fragrance and seasoning. Mushrooms and 
lemon in slices may be added to the garniture. 
And if at the first mouthful you do not thrill 
with rapture, the Thames will prove scarce 
deep and muddy enough to hide your shame. 

Put to severest test, the love of the sole for 
the oyster is never betrayed. Would you be 
convinced — and it is worth the trouble — experi- 
ment with sole farcie aux huitres, a dish so per- 
fect that surelj', like manna, it must have come 

strnitrht frnm T-Tpaven Tn nrnsaio nrnrHpnl 



The Simple Sole 93 

language, it is thus composed: you stuff your 
sole with forcemeat of oysters and truffles, you 
season with salt and carrot and lemon, you 
steep it in white wine — not sweet, or the sole 
is dishonoured — you cook it in the oven, and 
you serve the happy fish on a rich ragoit of the 
oysters and truffles. Or, another tender con- 
ceit that you may make yours to your own 
great profit and enlightenment, is sole far cie aux 
crevettes. In this case it is wise to fillet the sole 
and wrap each fillet about the shrimps, which 
have been well mixed and pounded with butter. 
A rich Bechamel sauce and garniture of lemons 
complete a composition so masterly that, before 
it, as before a fine Velasquez, criticism is si- 
lenced. 

Sole au gratin, though simpler, is none the 
less desirable. Let your first care be the sauce, 
elegantly fashioned of butter and mushrooms 
and shallots and parsley; pour a little — on 
your own judgment you have best rely for ex- 
act quantity — into a baking-dish ; lay the sole 
upon this liquid couch; deluge it with the re- 
mainder of the sauce, exhilarating white wine, 
and lemon juice ; bury it under bread-crumbs, 



94 The Simple Sole 

and bake it until it rivals a Rembrandt in rich- 
ness and splendour. 

In antiquarian moments, fricasey soals white, 
and admit that your foremothers were more 
accomplished artists than you. What folly to 
boast of modern progress when, at table, the 
Englishman of to-day is but a brute savage 
compared with his ancestors of a hundred years 
and more ago! But take heart: be humble, 
read this golden book, and the day of emanci- 
pation cannot be very far distant. Make your 
fricasey as a step in the right direction. Ac- 
cording to the infallible book, "skin, wash, 
and gut your soals very clean, cut off their 
heads, dry them in a cloth, then with your 
knife very carefully cut the flesh from the 
bones and fins on both sides. Cut the flesh 
long ways, and then across, so that each soal 
will be in eight pieces; take the heads and 
bones, then put them into a saucepan with a 
pint of water, a bundle of sweet herbs, an 
onion, a little whole pepper, two or three blades 
of mace, a little salt, a very little piece of 
lemon peel, and a little crust of bread. Cover 
it close, let it boil till half is wasted, then 



The Simple Sole 95 

strain it through a fine sieve, put it into a stew- 
pan, put in the soals and half a pint of white 
wine, a little parsley chopped fine, a few mush- 
rooms cut small, a piece of butter as big as an 
hen's egg, rolled in flour, grate a little nutmeg, 
set all together on the fire, but keep shaking 
the pan all the while till the fish is done 
enough. Then dish it up, and garnish with 
lemon." And now, what thinij you of that? 

If for variety you would present a brown 
fricasey, an arrangement in browns as startling 
as a poster by Lautrec or Anquetin, add anchovy 
to your seasoning, exchange white wine for red, 
and introduce into the mixture truffles and mo- 
rels, and mushrooms, and a spoonful of catchup. 
The beauty of the colour none can deny; the 
subtlety of the flavour none can resist. 

Another step in the right direction, which is 
the old, will lead you to sole pie, a dish of 
parts. Eels must be used, as is the steak in a 
pigeon's pie for instance; and nutmeg and 
parsley and anchovies must serve for seasoning. 
It is a pleasant fancy, redolent of the days 
gone by. 



"BOUILLABAISSE"; 

A Symphony in Gold 

Hear Wagner in Baireuth (though illusions 
may fly like dust before a March wind); see 
Velasquez in Madrid ; eat Bouillabaisse in Mar- 
seilles. And eat, moreover, with no fear of 
disenchantment; the saffron's gold has richer 
tone, the ail's aroma sweeter savour, under hot 
blue southern skies than in the cold sunless 
north. 

How much Thackeray is swallowed with 
y oven Bouillabaisse? asks the cynical American, 
vowed to all eternity to his baked shad and 
soft-shelled crab ; how much Thackeray ? echoes 
the orthodox Englishman, whose salmon, cu- 
cumberless, smacks of heresy, and whose whit- 
ing, if it held not its tail decorously in its 
bread-crumbed mouth, would be cast for ever 
into outer darkness. Sentiment there may be : 
not born, however, of Thackeray's verse, but 
7 97 



98 " Bouillabaisse" ; 

of days spent in Provengal sunshine, of ban- 
quets eaten at Provengal tables. Call for Bouil- 
labaisse in the Paris restaurant, at the Lap^rouse 
or Marguery's (you might call for it for a year 
and a day in London restaurants and always in 
vain) ; and if the dish brought back something 
of the true flavour, over it is cast the glamour 
and romance of its far southern home, of the 
land of troubadours and of Tartarin. But order 
it in Marseilles, and the flavour will all be 
there, and the sunshine and the gaiety, and the 
song'as well; fact outstrips the imagination of 
even the meridional; the present defies mem- 
ory to outdo its charm. 

And it must be in the Marseilles that glitters 
under midsummer's sun and grows radiant in 
its light. Those who have not seen Marseilles 
at this season know it not. The peevish finder 
of fault raves of drainage and dynamite, of dirt 
and anarchy. But turn a deaf ear and go to 
Marseilles gaily and without dread. Walk out 
in the early morning on the quays; the sum- 
mer sky is cloudless ; the sea as blue as in the 
painter's bluest dream ; the hills but warm 
purple shadows resting upon its waters. The 



A Symphony in Gold 99 

air is hot, perhaps, but soft and dry, and the 
breeze blows fresh from over the Mediterra- 
nean. Already, on every side, signs there are 
of the day's coming sacrifice. In sunlight and 
in shadow are piled high the sea's sweetest, 
choicest fruits: mussels in their sombre purple 
shells; lobsters, rich and brown; fish, scarlet 
and gold and green. Lemons, freshly plucked 
from near gardens, are scattered among the 
fragrant pile, and here and there trail long 
sprays of salt, pungent seaweed. The faint 
smell of a// comes to you gently from unseen 
kitchens, the feeling of Bouillabaisse is every- 
where, and tender anticipation illumines the 
faces of the passers-by. Great is the pretence 
of activity in the harbour and in the streets; at 
a glance, mere paltry traffic might seem the 
city's one and only end. But Marseilles' true 
mission, the sole reason for its existence, is 
that man may know how goodly a thing it is to 
eat Bouillabaisse at noon on a warm summer day. 
But when the hour comes, turn from the 
hotel, however excellent; turn from the Pro- 
vengal version of the Parisian Duval, however 
cheap and nasty; choose rather the native 



lOO '^Bouillabaisse'; 

headquarters of the immortal dish. Under 
pleasant awning sit out on the pavement, be- 
hind the friendly trees in tubs that suggest 
privacy, and yet hide nothing of the view be- 
yond. For half the joy in the steaming, golden 
masterpiece is in the background found for it; 
in the sunlit harbour and forest of masts; in 
the classic shores where has disembarked so 
many a hero, from ancient Phenician or Greek, 
down to valiant Tartarin, with the brave camel 
that saw him shoot all his lions! A coup de vin, 
and, as you eat, as you watch, with eyes half 
blinded, the glittering, glowing picture, you 
begin to understand the meaning of the south- 
ern galejado. Your heart softens, the endless 
beggars no longer beg from you in vain, while 
only the slenderness of your purse keeps you 
from buying out every boy with fans or matches, 
every stray Moor with silly slippers and sillier 
antimacassars; your imagination is kindled, so 
that later, at the gay caf^, where still you sit in 
the open street, as you look at the Turks and 
sailors, at the Arabs and Lascars, at the East- 
ern women in trousers and niggers in rags, in 
a word, at Marseilles' "Congress oi Nations," 



A Symphony in Gold 10 1 

that even Barntim in his most ambitious mo- 
ments never approached, far less surpassed, 
you, too, believe that had Paris but its Cane- 
bi^re, it might be transformed into a little 
Marseilles on the banks of the Seine. So po- 
tent is the influence of blessed Bouillabaisse ! 

Or, some burning Sundaj', you may rise 
with the dawn and take early morning train for 
Martigues, lying, a white and shining barrier, 
between the Etangs de Berre and Caronte. 
And there, on its bridges and canal banks, idly 
watching the fishing-boats, or wandering up 
and down its olive-clad hill-sides, the morning 
hours may be gently loafed away, until the 
Angelus rings a joyful summons to M. Ber- 
nard's hotel in the shady Place. Dark and cool 
is the spacious dining-room ; eager and atten- 
tive the bewildered Desir6e. Be not a minute 
late, for M. Bernard's Bouillabaisse is justly 
famed, and not only all Marseilles, but all the 
country near hastens thither to eat it on Sun- 
days, when it is served in its Edition de luxe. 
Pretty Arl6siennes in dainty fichus, cyclists in 
knickerbockers, rich Marseillais, painters from 
Paris join in praise and thanksgiving. And 



I02 "Bouillabaisse"; 

from one end of the world to the other, you 
might journey in vain in search of an emotion 
so sweet as that aroused by the first fragrant 
fumes of the dish set before you, the first rap- 
turous taste of the sauce-steeped bread, of the 
strange fish so strangely seasoned. 

But why, in any case, remain content with 
salmon alone when Bouillabaisse can be made, 
even in dark and sunless England? Quite the 
same it can never be as in the land of sunburnt 
mirth and jollity. The light and the brilliancy 
and the gaiety of its background must be ever 
missing in the home of fog and spleen. The 
gay little fish of the Mediterranean never swim 
in the drear, unresponsive waters that break on 
the white cliffs of England and the stern rocks 
of the Hebrides. But other fish there be, in 
great plenty, that, in the absence of the origi- 
nal, may answer as praiseworthy copies. 

After all, to cut turbot and whiting and soles 
and trout in small pieces, to cook them all to- 
gether, instead of each separately, is not the 
unpardonable sin, however the British house- 
wife may protest to the contrary. And as to 



A Symphony in Gold 103 

in bottles in many a London shop ? Are sweet 
herbs and garlic unknown in Covent Garden ? 
Are there no French and Italian grocers in 
Soho, with whom saffron is no less a necessity 
than mustard or pepper ? And bread ? who 
would dare aver that England has no bakers? 

It is not a difficult dish to prepare. Its cooks 
may not boast of secrets known only to them- 
selves, like the maker of process blocks or 
patent pills. Their methods they disclose with- 
out reservation, though alas! their genius they 
may not so easily impart. First of all, then, 
see to your sauce: oil, pure and sweet, is its 
foundation ; upon ail and herbs of the most aro- 
matic it depends for its seasoning. In this, 
place your fish selected and mixed as fancy 
prompts; a whiting, a sole — filleted of course — 
a small proportion of turbot, and as much sal- 
mon, if solely for the touch of colour it gives — 
the artist never forgets to appeal to the eye as 
to the palate. Boil thoroughly, Sprinkling at 
the last moment sympathetic saffron on the 
sweet-smelling offering. Have ready thick 
slices of bread daintily arranged in a conven- 
ient dish ; just before serving pour over them 



104 ^^Bouillabaisse'' 

the greater part of the unrivalled sauce, now 
gold and glorious with its saffron tint; pour 
the rest, with the fish, into another dish — a 
bowl, would you be quite correct — and let as 
few seconds as possible elapse between dishing 
this perfect work of art and eating it. Upon 
its smell alone man might live and thrive. Its 
colour is an inspiration to the painter, the sub- 
tlety of its flavour a text to the poet. Monte- 
nard and Dauphin may go on, year after year, 
painting olive-lined roads and ports of Toulon : 
the true Provengal artist will be he who fills 
his canvas with the radiance and richness of 
Bouillabaisse. 

Would you emulate M. Bernard and make a 
Bouillabaisse de luxe it may prove a tax upon 
your purse, but not upon your powers. For 
when thus lavishly inclined, you but add lob- 
ster or crab or crayfish and the needed luxury is 
secured. It is a small difference in the telling, 
but in the eating, how much, how unspeakable is 
this little more! Easily satisfied indeed must 
be the prosaic mortal who, having once revelled 
in Bouillabaisse de luxe, would ever again still 
his cravings with the simpler arrangement. 



THE MOST EXCELLENT 
OYSTER 

If, in cruel December, the vegetable fails us, 
in another direction we may look for and find 
— if we be wise and liberal — novelty without 
stint. Prom the oyster, when it is understood 
aright, spring perpetual joy and rapturous sur- 
prises. But, sad to tell, in England men have 
slighted it and misdoubted its greatness. Eng- 
lishmen eat it and declare it good ; but, as with 
salad, they know not how to prepare it. Be- 
cause it is excellent in its rawness, they can 
imagine no further use for it, unless, perhaps, 
to furnish a rich motive for sauce, or sometimes 
for soup. Even raw — again like salad — they 
are apt to brutalise it. To drown it in vinegar 
is the height of their ambition; an imperial 
pint was the quantity needed by Mr. Weller's 
friend to destroy the delicacy of its flavour, the 
salt sweetness of its aroma. The Greeks knew 
105 



io6 The Most Excellent Oyster 

better: according to Athenseus, boiled and fried 
they served their oysters, finding them, how- 
ever, best of all when roasted in the coals till 
the shells opened. As early as the seventeenth 
century, the French, preparing them en ^tuv^e 
and en fricassee, included them in their Z'//«Vm de 
la campagne. The American to-day exhausts his 
genius for invention in devising rare and cun- 
ning methods by which to extract their full 
strength and savour. Why should Englishmen 
tarry behind the other peoples on the earth in 
paying the oyster the tribute of sympathetic 
appreciation ? 

Its merit when raw, no man of sensibility 
and wisdom will deny. Base-minded, indeed, 
must be he who thinks to enhance its value by 
converting it into a defence against influenza 
or any other human ill. The ancients held it 
indigestible unless cooked ; but to talk of it as 
if it were a drug for our healing, a poison for 
our discomforting, is to dishonour, without 
rhyme or reason, the noblest of all shell-fish. 
Who would not risk an indigestion, or worse, 
for the pleasure raw oysters have it in their 
power to give? Was there one, among the 



The Most Excellent Oyster 107 

wedding guests at the "Marriage of Hebe," 
who feared the course of " oysters with closed 
shells, which are very difficult to open but very 
easy to eat" ? 

Easy to eat, yes; but first you must decide 
which, of the many varieties of oyster the sea 
offers, you had best order for your own delight. 
There are some men who, with Thackeray, 
rank the "dear little juicy green oysters of 
France" above the " great white flaccid natives 
in England, that look as if they had been fed 
on pork." To many, the coppery taste of this 
English native passes for a charm — poor de- 
luded Creatures! To others it seems the very 
abomination of desolation. But the true epi- 
cure, who may not have them, as had oyster- 
loving Greeks of old, from Abydus or Chalce- 
don, will revel most of all in the American 
species: the dainty little Blue-Point, or its 
long, sweet, plump brother of the north — to 
swallow it was like swallowing a baby, Thack- 
eray thought. 

Once your oysters are on the half shell, let 
not the vinegar bottle tempt you ; as far as it is 
concerned, be not only temperate, but a total 



io8 The Most Excellent Oyster 

abstainer. A sprinkling of salt, a touch of 
Cayenne, a dash of lemon juice, and then eat, 
and know how good it is for man to live in a 
world of oysters. For a light lunch or the per- 
fect midnight supper, for an inspiring hors 
d'muvre, without rival is this king of shell-fish. 
If for the midnight meal you reserve it, you 
may be kindled into ecstasy by the simple ad- 
dition of a glass of fine old Chablis or Sauterne 
— be not led astray by vulgar praise of stout or 
porter— and brown bread and butter cut in 
slices of ethereal thinness. Linger over this 
banquet, exquisite in its simplicity, long and 
lovingly, that later you may sleep with easy 
conscience and mind at rest. 

With raw oysters alone it were folly to re- 
main content. If you would spread a more 
sumptuous feast, fry the largest, plumpest 
grown in sea or river, and the gates of earthly 
paradise will be thrown wide open in the fry- 
ing. No more familiar cry is there in Ameri- 
can restaurants than that for "an oyster fry!" 
Dark little oyster cellars, reached by precipi- 
tous steps, there are, and friendl)' seedy little 
oyster shops in back streets, where the frying 



The Most Excellent Oyster 109 

of oysters has been exalted into a holy cult. 
And if you will, in paper boxes, the long, beau- 
tiful, golden-brown masterpieces you may carry 
away with you, to eat with gayer garnishing 
and in more sympathetic surroundings. And 
in winter, scarce a beer saloon but, at luncheon 
time, will set upon the counter a steaming dish 
of fried oysters; and with every glass of no 
matter what, "crackers" at discretion and one 
fried oyster on long generous fork will be 
handed by the white-robed guardian. But 
mind you take but one: else comes the 
chucker-out. Thus, only the very thirsty, in 
the course of a morning, may gain a free lunch. 
But, in England, what is known of the fried 
oyster ? 

It requires no great elaboration, though much 
rare skill in the cooking. For this purpose the 
largest oysters must be selected: the fattest 
and most juicy. In the half-shell they may be 
fried, after seventeenth-century fashion, a touch 
of butter aijd pepper on each ; verjuice or vine- 
gar, and grated nutmeg added once they are 
served. Or el^e, taken from the shell, they 
may be dipped into a marvellous preparation 



no The Most Excellent Oyster 

of vinegar, parsley, laurel leaves, onion, chives, 
cloves, basil, and in the result the mighty im- 
agination of the great Alexandre would rejoice. 
Or, again, in simpler American fashion, envel- 
oped in unpretentious batter of eggs and bread 
crumbs, fry them until they turn to an unriv- 
alled, indescribable golden-brown, and in the 
eating thereof the gods might envy you. 

If a new sensation you court, grill or broil 
your oyster, and you will have cause to exult 
in a loud triumphant magnificat. No bread 
crumbs are needed, neither laurel nor sweet 
spice. With but a bit of butter for encourage- 
ment, it will brown gently in the grilling, and 
become a delicious morsel to be eaten with 
reverence and remembered with tenderness. 

Or, stew them and be happy. But of rich 
milk, and cream, and sweet fresh butter, as 
Dumas would put it, must your stew be made: 
thickened, but scarce perceptibly, with flour, 
while bits of mace float in golden sympathy on 
the liquid's surface. It is the dish for lunch- 
eon, or for the pleasant, old-fashioned "high 
tea" — no such abomination as " meat tea" known 
then, if you please — of Philadelphia's pleasant, 



The Most Excellent Oyster 1 1 1 

old-fashioned citizens. And a worse accom- 
paniment you might have than waffles, light as 
a feather, or beaten biscuits, the pride of Mary- 
land's black cooks. Men and women from the 
Quaker city, when in cruel exile, will be moved 
to sad tears at the very mention of Jones's 
"oyster stews" in Eleventh-street! 

But the glory of Penn's town is the oyster 
croquette — from Augustine's by preference. A 
symphony in golden brown and soft fawn grey, 
it should be crisp without, within of such deli- 
cate consistency that it will melt in the mouth 
like a dream. Pyramidal in shape, it is of 
itself so decorative that only with the rarest 
blue and white china, or the most fairy-like 
Limoges, will it seem in perfect harmony. It 
would be discourteous, indeed, to serve so 
regal a creation on any stray dish or plate. 

Exquisite pleasure lurks in scalloped oysters, 
or oysters au gratin, whichever you may choose 
to call this welcome variation of the oyster 
motive. Layers of judiciously seasoned bread- 
crumbs alternate with layers of the responsive 
shell-fish, and the carefully-studied arrange- 
ment is then browned until it enchants by col- 



112 The Most Excellent Oyster 

our no less than by fragrance. And, if you 
would seek further to please the , eye, let the 
dish to hold so fine a work of art be a shell, 
with a suggestion of the sea in its graceful 
curves and tender tints. Or, if imagination 
would be more daring, let the same shell hold 
huttres farcies, cunningly contrived with eels 
and oysters, and parsley and mushrooms, and 
spices and cream, and egg and aromatic herbs. 
So fantastic a contrivance as this touches upon 
sublimity. 

In more homely and convivial mood, roast 
your oysters, as the Greeks loved them. But 
to enjoy them to the utmost, roast them your- 
self in the coals of your own fire, until the 
ready shells open. A dash of salt and cayenne 
upon the sweet morsel within, and you may eat 
it at once, even as you take it from off the coals, 
and drink its salt, savoury liquor from the shell. 
A dish of anchovy toast will not seem amiss. 
But let no other viands coarsen this ideal sup- 
per. For supper it should be, and nothing 
else. The curtains must be drawn close, while 
the fire flames high; one or two congenial 
friends — not more ; a dim religious light from 



The Most Excellent Oyster 1 1 3 

well-shaded lamps and candles; a bottle of 
good old Chablis, and others waiting in near 
wine-cellar or sideboard; and thus may you 
make your own such unspeakable happiness as 
seldom falls to the lot of mortals. 

Or if to the past your fancy wanders, prepare 
your oysters, seventeenth century-fashion, en 
dtvvde, boiled in their own liquor, flavoured 
with ingredients so various as oranges and 
chives, and served with bread-crumbs; or else, 
en fricassee, cooked with onion and butter, 
dipped in batter, and sprinkled with orange 
juice. Or again, in sheer waywardness, curry 
or devil them, though in this disguise no man 
may know the delicacy he is eating. Another 
day, bake them ; the next, put them in a pie or 
a patty ; the third, let them give substance to a 
vol-au-vent. Hesitate at no experiment; search 
the cookery-books, old and new. Be sure that 
the oyster, in its dictionary, "knows no such 
word as fail. If in sheer recklessness you 
were, like young Mr Grigg in the Cave of Har- 
mony, to call for a "mashed oyster and scal- 
loped 'taters," no doubt the "mashed" would 
be forthcoming. 



1 14 The Most Excellent Oyster 

As basis of soup or sauce, the oyster is with- 
out rival. Who would not abstain on Fridays 
all the year round, if every Friday brought 
with it oyster soup to mortify the flesh ! But 
alas! four months there be without an R, when 
oysters by the wise must not be eaten. And is 
not turbot, or boiled capon, or a tender loin- 
steak but the excuse for oyster sauce ? in which, 
if you have perfection for your end, let there be 
no stint of oysters. Then, too, in the stuffing 
of a fowl, oysters prove themselves the worthy 
rival of mushrooms or of chestnuts. 

It is a grave mistake, however, to rank the 
oyster as the only shellfish of importance. The 
French know better. So did the Greeks, if 
Athenseus can be trusted. Mussels, oysters, 
scallops, and cockles led the list, according to 
Diodes, the Carystian. Thus are they enume- 
rated by still another authority : — 

A little polypus, or a small cuttle-fish, 
A crab, a crawfish, oysters, cockles. 
Limpets and solens, mussels and pinnas ; 
Periwinkles, too, from Mitylene. 

The mussel is still the delight of the French 
table d'hdte breakfast. Charming to look at is 



The Most Excellent Oyster 1 1 5 

the deep dish where, floating in parsley-strewn 
sauce, the beautiful purple shells open gently 
to show the golden-grey treasures within. Well 
may the commercial in the provinces heap high 
his plate with the food he loves, while about 
him hungry men stare, wondering how much 
will be left for their portion. But who in Eng- 
land eats mussels? Only a little lower the 
Greeks ranked periwinkles, which now, associ- 
ated as they are with 'Arriet and her pin, the 
fastidious affect to despise. It has been writ- 
ten of late, by a novelist seeking to be witty, 
that there is no poetry in periwinkles; but 
^schylus could stoop to mention them in his 
great tragedies. The " degradation of the 
lower classes" the same weak wit attributes to 
overindulgence in winkles. With as much 
reason might the art and philosophy of Greece 
be traced to "periwinkles from Mitylene." 
Cooked in the good sauce of France, the hum- 
ble winkle might take rank with the Whitstable 
native at three-and-six the dozen, and thus 
would the lowly be exalted. The snail, like- 
wise, we might cultivate to our own immeasur- 
able advantage. 



THE PARTRIDGE 

With September, the gourmana's fancy gaily 
turns to thoughts of partridges. For his pleas- 
ure sportsmen, afar in autumn's cool country, 
work diligently from morn to eve; or, it may 
be, he himself plays the sportsman by day that 
he may prove the worthier gourmand by night. 
And the bird is deserving of his affections. It 
has been honoured alike in history and romance. 

Among moderns, a Daudet is found to study 
and consider its emotions under fire; among 
ancients, few neglected it, from Aristophanes 
to Aristotle, who declared it "a very ill-dis- 
posed and cunning animal; much devoted, 
moreover, to amatory enjoyment." With such 
a character, its two hearts count for little ; far 
gone, indeed, must be the sentimentalist of our 
moral age who would stay its slayer's hand. 
What if it be true, as Chamaeleon of Pontus 
said of old, that from listening to its singing in 

desert places man arrived at the art of music? 
117 



1 1 8 The Partridge 

Alive it may have an aesthetic value; but if it 
be without morals should it not perish? In 
eating it, therefore, does not man perform a 
solemn duty? Nay, should not the New Wo- 
man exult in flaunting its sober feathers in her 
masculine hat ? 

So might reason the apostle of social purity. 
But the gourmand questions nothing save the 
daintiness of the bird's flesh, the merit of its 
flavour. And the practical answer to this ques- 
tioning silences all doubts. Clearly the par- 
tridge was created that he might eat it and 
find it good. 

It is because of the rare excellence of the 
pretty bird, in autumn making a feathered 
frieze in every poulterer's window, that too 
much consideration cannot be given to its treat- 
ment in the kitchen. Its virtues can be easily 
marred by the indifferent, or unsympathetic 
chef. Left hanging too short a time, left cook- 
ing too long, and it will sink into common- 
place, so that all might wonder wherefore its 
praises have been ever loudly sung. Hang it 
in a cool place, and leave it there until the last 
moment possible — you understand ? Now that 



The Partridge 1 1 9 

winds are cold, and a feeling of frost is in the 
air, to banish it a fortnight would not be unwise. 
To roast a partridge may seem a sadly simple 
device when so many more ingenious schemes 
are at your disposal. But for all that, none 
can be recommended with enthusiasm more 
keenly felt. For in the roasting none of its 
sweet savour is lost, none of its natural tender- 
ness sacrificed on the one hand, exaggerated on 
the other. The process requires less intelli- 
gence than an artistic touch. Truss your birds 
in seemly fashion, when, as if in birdlike emu- 
lation of Hedda Gabler, they cry for vine leaves 
on their breast. Over the vine leaves tie less 
romantic, but more succulent, bacon, cut in 
slices of the thinnest. Then, in front of a 
quick, clear fire baste prodigally with butter. 
A little flour, judiciously sprinkled, will add 
richness to the nut-brown colour the susceptible 
birds develop in the roasting. Now they are 
ready to serve, remember that "partridges 
should have gravy in the dish, and bread-sauce 
in a cup" — it is Mrs Glasse who has said it. It 
would be no crime to add watercress, or pars- 
ley, as garniture, or toast as a soft bed for the 



I20 The Partridge 

■happy victims. And to eat with them, prepare 
a crisp lettuce salad, to which the merest sus- 
picion of tarragon leaves, well chopped, has 
been added. And the gods themselves might 
envy you your joy and gladness in the eating. 

A word as to the carving, or " dissection of 
the partridge," as it was called in days when 
England understood and gloried in the arts of 
the kitchen. Thus was the Grand' Escuyer Tran- 
chant — the Great Master carver, that is — in- 
structed: "A partridge is for the most part 
carved and served whole, like a pigeon; but 
yet he may be served in pieces ; but when you 
will carve him to serve whole, you must only 
cut the joints and lay them abroad ; but if you 
serve him by pieces, you must begin to serve 
with a wing." Why not carve and serve ac- 
cording to tradition, and so lend new dignity to 
your feasting ? 

If of roast partridge you weary, and from 
France would take a hint, seek novelty and 
happiness in Perdrix aux choux. For this, birds 
of an older generation will answer as well as 
their more tender young, since for two hours, 
in a wrapping of bacon and buttered paper, 



The Partridge 1 2 i 

they must simmer gently on their couch of cab- 
bage. To evolve the required flavour, into the 
same pot must go a saveloy, and perhaps salt 
pork in slices, a "bunch of fragrant herbs, onions 
and carrots and cloves and salt and butter a dis- 
cretion. The birds must be drained before they 
pass from the pot to the dish ; around them the 
cabbage, likewise drained, must be set as a 
garland, and the saveloy, in pretty pieces, may 
be placed here and there. Behold another of 
the many good gifts France has presented to 
us. 

Perdrix a F Espagnole may again vary anew 
the delicious monotony. In this variety the 
partridges are boiled, covered with a rich 
gravy, and plentifully adorned with green pep- 
pers. It was in a moment of divine inspiration 
the Spaniard invented so piquant an arrange- 
ment. But the resources of boiled partridges, 
apt to be forgotten or overlooked, are well-nigh 
limitless, and as charming as they are many. 
Very important is it that the birds be well 
boiled, quickly, in much water. The rest de- 
pends upon the sauce. This may be of cream 
and butter alone; or else of celery and cream, 



122 The Partridge 

seasoned with mace and pepper. Or else of 
mushrooms and cream, or of the livers and 
parsley and butter; or of white wine; or of any 
and every good thing that goes to the making 
of superlative sauce. What a chance, too, to 
exercise your imagination, to reveal your in- 
genuity! Five long months are before you; 
see that you make the most of them. 

If your soul delight in the fantastic, let few 
days pass before you have tested the quaint 
joys of Partridge Mettenes. The recipe shall be 
printed word for word as written by the Master 
Cook, Giles: "Take Partridges and roast them, 
then take Cream" — these with capitals, observe 
— "and Grapes, with Bread, scorched against 
the Fire, and beat all this together; but first 
steep your Bread in Broth or Claret-Wine ; then 
strain all this through a strainer with Spice, 
Cinnamon, and a little Mustard; set all a-boyl- 
ing with a pretty deal of Sugar, but take heed 
that it doth not burn too, and when you would 
serve away your Partridge, put them into a 
Dish, and your Sauce under them, and gar- 
nish your Dish with Sweetmeats and Sugar- 
plumbs." 



The Partridge 123 

Here is another device, fantastic chiefly in 
name: "Partridges a I'eau bdniste or Holy 
Water." It has the virtue of simplicity. 
" Take partridges and rost them, and when 
they are rosted, cut them into little pieces, and 
put them into a Dish with a little fair Water 
and Salt, and make them boyl a little, and so 
serve them away." Or else, O pleasant alter- 
native! "you may make a Sauce with Rose- 
water and Wine, the Juice of Apples and 
Oranges, but there must be three times as 
much Rose-water as Wine." 

Reading this, who will dare deny that Mas- 
ter Cook Giles is an authority to be respected, 
of whose recipes the poor prosaic -modern 
kitchen may not receive too many? Space, 
therefore, must be yielded to at least one more : 
"Partridges a la Tonnelette." "Take a par- 
tridge and rost it, then put it into a Pot ; this 
done, take white Bread and scortch or toste it 
very brown, but not burn it, and put it a-steep- 
ing in good Claret-wine, and when it is -well 
steep'd strain it through a strainer with some 
good Broth, and a few Onions fryed in Lard, 
with a little Cinnamon, Cloves, and Nutmegs, 



124 The Partridge 

and other small Spices, and a little Sugar, and 
put into it a handful of Currants, and make 
that which you have strained out boyl all to- 
gether, and when it is time to serve your Par- 
tridges, put your Sauces into a Dish, and lay 
your Partridges upon it, and so serve it." 

Such pretty fancies, it were a shame to fol- 
low with bald prose. Yet, bear in mind that 
partridges may be braised with mushrooms or 
truffles; that they may be broiled or baked; 
that they disgrace neither pie nor pudding; 
and that they offer welcome basis for a saimi 
and purde. Lay this to heart. 



THE ARCHANGELIC BIRD 

Michaelmas is a season of sad associations. 
The quarter's rent is due, alas! The quarter's 
gas, alas! and, alas a hundred times! the half- 
yearly rates. Bank accounts dwindle; spirits 
sink ; life seems but a blank and dreary desert. 
Into the gloom, settling down thicker and 
more throttling than November's fog, there 
flutters and waddles a big white bird, a saviour 
of men. It is the noble goose, the goose, 
ridiculed and misunderstood, that comes chival- 
rously and fearlessly to the rescue; the goose 
that once saved Rome's Capitol, the goose still 
honoured as most alert of sentinels within Bar- 
celona's cathedral precincts, the goose that, 
followed by a goose-girl, is the beloved of ar- 
tists. Because of its nobility of character, its 
devotion, wherein it rivals benevolent mastiff 
and kindly terrier, its courage, its strength, St 
Michael, glorious and effulgent archangel, took 
it for his own bird of birds, to be so intimately 
125 



126 The Archangelic Bird 

connected with him that now to show respect 
to the Saint is to eat the goose. The Feast of 
Michaelmas, to the right-minded and the ortho- 
dox, means roast goose and apple sauce. Soul- 
less authorities, burrowing in mouldy records, 
can find no better reason for this close relation- 
ship than that, at September's close, great is 
the number of geese cackling in homely barn- 
yard, great their perfection. Numerous gen- 
erations since England's fourth Edward sat 
upon the throne (and who can say how many 
before his time?), have held the cooking of the 
goose for dinner as no less sacred a ceremony 
on the Angel's feast day than the morning's 
service in church. And this, would the pug- 
nacious Michael have permitted for such gross 
material considerations? Never; let it be said 
once and for all : never. He knew the goose 
for the bird that lays the golden egg; he knew 
full well its dignity and might that make it still 
a terror to be met on lonely common b)' them 
who use its name as symbol of silliness; he 
knew that strong as well as faint hearted hesi- 
tate to say " Bo" disourteously to any goose, 
whether it be a wanderer in French pastures or 



The Archangelic Bird 127 

one of the dust-raising flock, in the twilight, 
cackling homeward over Transylvanian high- 
ways. In a word, Michael knew his bird ; and 
our duty it is to believe in it a dish for Michael- 
mas with the blind, unquestioning allegiance of 
perfect faith. Coarse its flesh may be in 
comparison with the dainty duck and tender 
chicken ; commonplace in comparison with the 
glorious grouse and proud partridge. The 
modest, respectable bourgeois it may seem among 
poultry. And yet, if the Archangel has chosen 
it for his own, who shall say him nay? Study 
rather to disguise its native coarseness, to en- 
liven its excellent dulness. 

To roast it is the simplest form the Michael- 
mas celebration allows. See first that your fire 
be very good ; take care to singe the sacrificial 
goose with a piece of white paper, and baste it 
with a piece of butter; drudge it (the word is 
Mrs Glasse's) with a little flour, and when the 
smoke begins to draw to the fire, and it looks 
plump, baste it again and drudge it with a lit- 
tle flour, and take it up. In sober mood, stuff 
it with sage and onion; in more flamboyant 
moments, let your choice rest upon chestnuts. 



128 The Archangelic Bird 

Tradition insists upon a little good gravy in a 
basin by itself, and some apple-sauce in an- 
other; but sauce of gooseberries, not to be had 
fresh, however, for Michaelmas, is the gourmet' i 
choice. 

A hint as to carving. How many a beauti- 
ful bird, or majestic joint, has been shamelessly 
insulted by ill-trained carver! Of old the mas- 
ter of the household accepted the " dissection of 
a goose" after the High Dutch fashion and the 
Italian both, his own predilections leaning 
rather toward the High Dutch, "for they cut 
the breast into more pieces, and so by conse- 
quence fill more Plates" — good thrifty burghers 
that they were. Learn then, and master " the 
order how they carve and how they send it 
away; as (i), on the first Plate a thigh; (2), 
another thigh; (3), a side of the rump, with a 
piece of the breast; (4), the other side of the 
rump, with another piece of the breast ; (5) , a 
wing; (6), the other wing; (7), the rest of the 
stomach, upon which, if there be little of the 
brawn left, you may joyn the two small forked 
bones; to the eighth, the merry-thought, with 
the rest of the rump, and any else, at your dis- 



The Archangelic Bird 129 

cretion. If you will, you may join some of the 
breast with the best piece which you always 
present to the most considerable person at the 
table first, and take notice too, by the bye, 
the brawn of the breast ought to be for the 
most part served out first." Give heed unto 
these directions, and far wrong you may not 

go- 
Days are when simple expression of faith is 
all too inadequate. The devout yearns for 
something more ornate, something more elabo- 
rate. Let the outcome of this yearning be oie 
a la chipolata, and Michael in Paradise will smell 
the sweet savour and smile. It is difficult, but 
delicious. Cover the bottom of your stew-pan 
with lard ; place upon it two or three slices of 
beef and ham, a bouquet of parslej' and chives, 
three carrots and two or three onions, a touch 
of garlic, a few cloves, thyme, laurel leaves, 
basil, and salt, and thus you will have pre- 
pared a sweet, soft bed for your goose. Imme- 
diately disturb the bird's slumbers by pouring 
over it a glass of good Madeira, a bottle of 
white wine, a glass of cognac, and two or three 
spoonfuls of strong bouillon made of fowls. 
9 



130 The Archangelic Bird 

Now put your pan on the fire, stew your goose 
for an hour, lift it out, arrange it on a fair 
dish, and envelop it in the very richest chipolata 
it is in your power to make. And what is a 
chipolata? An Italian creation half sauce, half 
ragout J fashioned of carrots and turnips, and 
chestnuts and onions, and sausage and mush- 
rooms, and artichokes and celery, and strong 
veal gravy. 

Archangelic smiles must broaden into silent 
laughter at the mere mention of " a Potage of 
Green Geese." It is a conceit redolent of the 
olden time, when gaiety was still ranked among 
the cardinal virtues, and men ate their fill with 
no fear of a dyspeptic to-morrow. Since it is 
an ancient masterpiece, in the ancient words 
must it be explained, or else it will be dishon- 
oured in the telling. " Take your Green-geese 
and boyl them the usual way, and when they 
are boyled take them up and fry them whole in 
a frying-pan to colour them, either with the fat 
of bacon or hog's-lard, called nowadays matitge 
de pork; then take ginger, long pepper, and 
cloves; beat all this together, and season them 
with this spice ; a little parsley and sage, and 



The Archangelic Bird 131 

put them into a little of the same broth that 
they were boyled in, and sprinkle a little grated 
cheese over them, and let them have a little 
stew, and then dish them up with sipets under 
them." A brave disguise, truly, for humblest 
goose. 

In a pie likewise — unless the fashioning 
thereof be entrusted to the indiscreet cook — it 
presents a brave appearance. Walls of crust 
line a spacious dish ; a pickled dried tongue is 
boiled ; a fowl and a goose are boned ; season- 
ing is wrought of mace, beaten pepper, and 
salt; and then. Oh the marvel of it! fowl is 
lain in the goose, tongue in the fowl, goose in 
the dish. A half a pound of butter separates 
bird from pastry cover. And, hot or cold, 
pleasure may be had in the eating. Not the 
highest pleasure, perhaps, but still pleasure 
not to be scorned. 

If you would boil a goose, see, as you respect 
your stomach, that it be first salted for a week. 
With onion sauce it may be becomingly adorned, 
or again, with simple cabbage, boiled, chopped 
small, and stewed in butter. Or, plunge gaily 
into the rococo style, and decorate it ci V Arle- 



132 The Archangelic Bird 

siennej stuffed with onions and chestnuts, boiled 
in company with carrots and celery and onions 
and parsley and cloves, floated in tomato sauce, 
it is as chock full of playful surprises as the 
Cartuja of Granada. Another device to be 
recommended is the grilling of the legs and 
the serving them with laitues /antes — and Mi- 
chael will laugh outright; or d la Prmiencale, 
and words fail ; or aux tomates, the love-apples 
that not the hardest heart can resist. Of the 
great and good Careme these are the sugges- 
tions; treasure them up, therefore, where mem- 
ory may not rust or aspiration decay, for the 
dinner may come when you will be glad to 
have them 'at hand. 

Of the giblets and liver of the goose is there 
not a long, exultant chapter yet to be written ? 
In far Strasburg geese, in perpetual darkness 
and torture, fatten with strange morbid fat, 
that the sensitive, who shrink from a bull fight 
and cry out against the cruelty of the cockpit, 
may revel in pdt^ de foie gras. So long as the 
world lives, may there still be this delectable 
pdt^ io delight. But why not be honest: admit 
that between the torture of the bull that we 



The Ar change lie Bird 133 

may see, and the torture of the goose that we 
may eat, difference there is none ? Give sensi- 
tiveness full play, and sordid vegetarianism is 
the logical result. 



SPRING CHICKEN 

Gluttony, it has been written — and with 
wisdom — deserves nothing but praise and en- 
couragement. For two reasons. " Physically, 
it is the result and proof of the digestive organs 
being perfect. Morally, it shows implicit res- 
ignation to the commands of nature, who, in 
ordering man to eat that he may live, gives 
him appetite to invite, flavour to encourage, 
and pleasure to reward." But there is a third 
reason, too often overlooked even by the pro- 
fessional glutton: love of good eating is an 
incentive to thought, a stimulus to the imagi- 
nation. The man of the most active mind and 
liveliest fancy is he who eats well and conscien- 
tiously considers each dish as it is set before 
him. 

The test seldom fails. Run through the list 

of poets and painters of your acquaintance; do 

not they who eat best write the finest verse and 

paint the strongest pictures ? Those who pre- 

135 



136 spring Chicken 

tend indifference and live on unspeakable 
messes are betrayed in the foolish affectation 
and tedious eccentricity of their work; those 
■who feel indifference are already beyond hope 
and had better far be selling tape across coun- 
ters or adding up figures in loathsome ledgers. 
Memory, borrowing from her store-house of 
treasures, lingers with tender appreciation and 
regret upon one unrivalled breakfast, exqui- 
sitely cooked, exquisitely served, and exqui- 
sitely eaten, when lilacs were sweet and horse- 
chestnuts blossoming in the boulevards and 
avenues of Paris. And he upon whose table 
the banquet was spread is an artist who towers 
head and shoulders above the pigmies of his 
generation. It were rash, indeed, to maintain 
that because he eats daintily therefore he paints 
like the master he is; but who, on the other 
hand, would dare aver that because he paints 
supremely well therefore is he the prince of 
gourmets ? Here cause and efEect are not to be 
defined by cold logic, not to be labelled by 
barren philosophy. One thing alone is certain ; 
if love of good eating will not create genius it 
can but develop it. 



spring Chicken 137 

Consequently, it would be impossible to 
think too much of what you are eating to-day 
and purpose to eat to-morrow. It is your duty 
above all things to see that your food is in har- 
mony with place and season. The question 
now is, what beast or bird is fitting holocaust 
for the first warm months of spring ? Beef is 
too heating, too substantial ; mutton too monot- 
onous, veal too prosaic. Lamb hath charm, 
but a charm that by constant usage may be 
speedily exhausted. Does not mint sauce pall 
at times? Place, then, your trust in the poul- 
try-yard that your pleasure may be long in the 
spring. 

To begin with, poultry pleases because of 
its idyllic and pastoral associations. The 
plucked birds, from shop windows, flaunting 
their nakedness in the face of the world, recall 
the old red-roofed farmhouse among the elms, 
and the pretty farmer's daughter in neat, fresh 
gingham, scattering, grain in the midst of her 
feathered favourites ; they suggest the first cool 
light of dawn and the irrepressible cock crow- 
ing the glad approach of day ; in a word, they 
are reminders of the country's simple joys — 



138 spring Chicken 

unendurable at the time, dear and sacred when 
remembered in town. 

The gentle little spring chicken is sweet and 
adorable above all its kindred poultry. It is 
innocent and guileless as Bellini's angels, 
dream-like and strange as Botticelli's. It is the 
very concentration of spring; as your teeth 
meet in its tender, yielding flesh, you think, 
whether you will or no, of violets and prim- 
roses, and hedgerows white with may; you feel 
the balmy breath of the south wind ; the world 
is scented for you with lilac and narcissus ; and, 
for the time being, life is a perfect poem. But 
— why is there always a but ? — your cook has it 
in her power to ruin the rhythm, to make of 
melodious lyric the most discordant prose. No 
less depends upon the being who cooks the 
chicken than upon the hen who laid the egg. 
If hitherto you have offended through heedless- 
ness, see now that you approach the subject 
with a determination to profit. 

Of all ways of cooking a spring chicken, fry- 
ing is first to be commended; and of all ways 
of frying the American is most sympathetic. 
Fried chicken ! To write the word is to be car- 



spring Chicken 139 

ried back to the sunny South; to see, in the 
mind's eye, the old, black, fat, smiling mam- 
mie, in gorgeous bandana turban, and the little 
black piccaninnies bringing in relays of hot 
muffins. Oh, the happy days of the long ago! 
It is easy to give the recipe, but what can it 
avail unless the mammie goes with it ? Another 
admirable device is in broiling. One fashion 
is to divide your chicken down the back and 
flatten it, seeing, as you have a heart within 
you, that no bones be broken. Set it lovingly 
on a trivet placed for the purpose in a bak- 
ing-tin into which water, to the depth of an 
inch, has been poured. Cover your tin; bake 
the sweet offering for ten minutes or so ; take 
it from the oven ; touch it delicately with the 
purest of pure olive oil, and for another ten 
minutes broil it over a good brisk fire. And 
if in the result you do not taste heaven, hasten 
to the hermit's cell in the desert, and, for the 
remainder of your days, grow thin on lentils 
and dates. 

Or, if you would broil your chicken after the 
fashion of infallible Mrs Glasse, slit it as before, 
season it with pepper and salt, lay it on a clear 



140 spring Chicken 

fire at a great distance, broil first the inside, 
then the out, cover it with delicate bread- 
crumbs, and let it be of a fine brown, but not 
burnt. And keep this note carefully in your 
mind: "You may make just what sauce you 
fancy." 

To roast a spring chicken will do no harm, 
but let it not be overdone. Twenty minutes 
suffice for the ceremony. Bacon, in thinnest 
of thin slices, gracefully rolled, is not unworthy 
to be served with it. In boiling, something of 
its virginal flavour may be sacrificed, but still 
there is compensating gain; it may be eaten 
with white mushroom sauce, made of mush- 
rooms and cream, and seasoned with nutmeg 
and mace. Here is a poem, sweeter far than 
all songs of immortal choirs or the weak pip- 
ings of our minor singers. 

As the chicken outgrows the childish state, 
you may go to Monte Carlo in search of one 
hint at least, for its disposal. There j'ou will 
learn to cut it into quarters, to stew it in wine 
and shallots, to add, at the psychological mo- 
ment, tomatoes in slices, and to serve a dish 



spring Chicken 141 

to Spain, and find that country's kitchen slan- 
dered when you eat poulet au ris a l' Espagnole, 
chicken cooked in a mannite with rice, arti- 
chokes, green and red chillies, and salad oil, and 
served, where the artist dwells, in the blesssed 
marmite itself — in unimaginative London, even, 
you may buy one, green or brown, whichever 
you will, at a delightful shop in Shaftsbury- 
avenue. Again, you may wander to Holland — 
it is a short journey, and not disagreeable by 
way of Harwich — and be ready to swear that 
no fashion can surpass the Dutch of boiling 
chickens with rice or vermicelli, spicing them 
with pepper and cloves, and, at table, substitut- 
ing for sauce sugar and cinnamon. But to omit 
these last two garnishments will not mean a 
mortal sin upon your conscience. In more 
festive mood hasten at once to France, and 
there you will be no less certain that the way 
of ways is to begin to broil your chicken, al- 
ready quartered, but, when half done, to put it 
in a stew-pan with gravy, and white wine, salt 
and pepper, fried veal balls, onions, and shal- 
lots, and, according to season, gooseberries or 
grapes. Do you not grow hungry as you read ? 



142 spring Chicken 

But wait: this is not all. As the beautiful 
mixture is stewing — on a charcoal fire if possi- 
ble — thicken the liquor with yolks of eggs and 
the juice of lemon, and for ever after bless Mrs 
Glasse for having initiated you into these noble 
and ennobling mysteries. 

Braise your chicken, fricassee it, make it into 
mince, croquettes, krameskies; eat it cold; 
convert it into galantine; bury it in aspic; do 
what you will with it, so long as you do it well, 
it can bring you but happiness and peace. 



THE MAGNIFICENT MUSH- 
ROOM 

From remote ages dates the triumph of the 
mushroom — the majestic, magnificent mush- 
room. Glorious Greeks feasted on it and were 
glad. What say Poliochus and Antiphanes? 
What Athenseus ? In verse only, could be duly 
praised those fragrant mushrooms of old, which 
were roasted for dinner and eaten with delicate 
snails caught in the dewy morning, and olives 
tenderly pounded; washed down with wine, 
good if not over strong or of famous vintage. 
O the simple, happy days of long ago! 

There are times when the classic .simplicity 
and dignity of the Greek you may emulate, and 
your amusement find in mushrooms dressed 
with vinegar, or honey and vinegar, or honey, 
or salt. But then, all other courses must be in 
keeping. The snails and olives must not be 
omitted. Maize there must be, well winnowed 
143 



144 The Magnificent Mushroom 

from the chaff, and rich, ripe purple figs. And, 
who knows ? the full flavour thereof might not 
be yielded to the most earnest adventurer were 
couches not substituted for stiff, ungainly 
chairs. By many a lesser trifle has digestion 
been, if not ruined, influenced for ill. 

But the classic experiment, if repeated too 
often, might seem very odious. The modern 
gourmand, or artist, is a romanticist, whether he 
will or no. No screaming red waistcoat marks 
the romantic movement in the kitchen, and yet 
there it has been stronger even than in art and 
literature. The picturesque must be had at 
any cost. Simplicty is not spurned, far from 
it; but it must be seasoned with becoming 
sprinkling of romance. What could be simpler 
than the common mushroom grilled, so self- 
sufficient in its chaste severity that it allows 
but salt and pepper and butter to approach it, 
as it lies, fragrant and delicious, on its grid- 
iron, calling, like another St Lawrence, to be 
turned when one side is fairly done. And yet 
when, ready to be served, its rich brown beauty 
is spread upon the paler brown of the toast, and 
above rests butter's brilliant gold, have you not 



The Magnificent Mushroom 145 

an arrangement as romantic in conception as 
the " Ernani" of the master, or the pastoral of 
Corot? Paltry meats and undesirable vege- 
tables should not be allowed to dispute suprem- 
acy with it. Serve it alone, as you respect 
yourself. Do not make your breakfast or din- 
ner table as preposterous a blunder as the mod- 
ern picture gallery. 

Should simplicity pall upon you — and mo- 
ments there are when it cannot fail to pall — en- 
rich your grilled' mushrooms with a sauce of 
melted butter and onions and parsley, and a 
single note of garlic, and the result will be 
enchanting mushrooms a la bourdelaise. If au 
beurre you would eat them, to accord with your 
passing mood of suave serenity, stew them 
gently and considerately in daintiest stewpan 
your kitchen can provide, and let cayenne and 
powdered mace exult, as the romantic ele- 
ments of the stirring poem. 

A still more poetic fancy may be met and 
sweely satisfied by ragout of mushrooms. Lis- 
ten reverently, for it is food fit to be set before 
the angels. Over the mushrooms, first boiled 
on a quick fire, pour a gill of pure red wine — 



146 The Magnificent Mushroom 

and the best Burgundy thus used will not be 
wasted ; then scatter spices, mace, and nutmeg, 
with a discreet hand; boil once more; pour the 
marvellous mixture upon five or six — or more, 
if wanted — yolks of eggs, hard-boiled; garnish 
the dish with grilled mushrooms, and bless the 
day that you were born, predestined, as you 
were, from all eternity for this one interval of 
rapture. 

Possibility of rapture there is likewise in a 
white/«Vaw/(? of mushrooms, which, if you have 
your own happiness at heart, you cannot afford 
to despise. Secure then, without delay — for 
who would play fast and loose with happiness? 
— a quart of fresh mushrooms. Clean them 
with hands as tender as if bathing a new-born 
babe. In three spoonfuls of water, and three of 
milk, let them boil up three times. See that 
temptation leads you not to violate the sanctity 
of this thrice-three. Nutmeg, mace, butter, a 
pint of rich thick cream alone, at this juncture, 
will appease the saucepan's longings. Shake 
well; and all the time, mind you. Be careful 
there is no curdling, or else — damnation. The 
masterpiece once triumphantly achieved and 



The Magnificent Mushroom 147 

set upon a table covered with a fair white cloth, 
great will be the rejoicing in the Earthly Para- 
dise of your dining-ropm. 

h nother sensation, another thrill awaits you 
in mushrooms au gratin. Here, indeed, is ro- 
manticism gone mad. Grated bacon, shallots, 
a bouquet garni, mace, pepper and salt, eggs and 
butter share the baking-dish with the mush- 
rooms ; breadcrumbs complete the strange, sub- 
tle combination, upon which you may break 
your fast, dine, sup and sleep, as Valentine 
upon the very naked name of love. A sorry 
plight were yours if love, fickle and fading, 
could be preferred to a dish of mushrooms fash- 
ioned so fantastically. 

" And oh ! what lovely, beautiful eating there 
is in this world!" It is Heine who said it — 
Heine who, for a good dinner, would have 
given twice the three hundred years of eternal 
fame offered by Voltaire for a good digestion. 
But lovely and beautiful are but feeble words 
when it is a question of the mess of mushrooms, 
foj which who would not sacrifice eternal fame 
for ever, in all cheerfulness and glee ? 

The reigning sultana in the mushroom's 



148 The Magnificent Mushroom 

harem is the brilliant golden egg. Sweet sym- 
phonies in brown and gold are the dishes their 
union yields. CEufs brouilUs aicx champignons — 
has not the very name a pretty sound ? It is a 
delight best suited to the midday breakfast; 
a joyous course to follow the anchovy salad, the 
eel well smoked, or whatever dainty hors d'amre 
may stimulate to further appetite. The eggs, 
scrambled and rivalling the buttercup's rich 
gold, are laid delicately on crisp toast, and pre- 
sent a couch, soft as down, for a layer of mush- 
rooms. Let Ruskin rave of Turner's sunsets, 
let the glor)' of the Venetians be a delight 
among art critics; but when did Turner or Ti- 
tian or Tintoret invent a finer scheme of colour 
than egg and mushroom thus combined for the 
greater happiness of the few ? A silver dish or 
one of rarest porcelain should be frame for a 
picture so perfect. 

Borrow a hint from the Hungarians, and vary 
the arrangement to your own profit. Make a 
purie of the mushrooms, as rich as cream per- 
mits, and offer it as foundation for eggs poached 
deftly and swiftly: a harm6ny in soft dove-like 
greys and pale yellow, the result. It is an ad- 



The Magnificent Mushroom 149 

mirable contrivance, a credit to Szomorodni- 
drinking Magyars. And there is no known rea- 
son why it should not be eaten on Thames side 
as on the banks of the Danube. Szoraorodni, 
in its native splendour, alas ! is not to be had in 
London town. But, without sacrilege, Chablis 
or Graves, or Sauterne may take its place. To 
drink red wine would be to strike a false note 
in the harmony. 

Another day, another dish, which you cannot 
do better than make omelette aux champignons. 
And if you will, you may eat it even as it was 
prepared for Royal Stuarts by Master Cook 
Rose, who wrote almost as prettily as he 
cooked. Thus: — " Stove your champignons be- 
tween two dishes, season them with salt, pep- 
per, and nutmeg, then make an omelette with 
a dozen of eggs, and when he is ready cover 
him over with your champignons, and fold 
him up, triangle-wise, and serve him with the 
juice of lemons over him." A royal dish, 
indeed. 

Creatures of infinite resources, eggs and 
mushrooms meet in cases to produce a new and 
distinct joy. The mushrooms, stewed in milk 



150 The Magnificent Mushroom 

thickened with the yolks of raw eggs and bread- 
crumbs, line the little fluted china cases ; into 
each a fresh egg is broken ; then more mush- 
rooms and breadcrumbs are spread gently 
above; a shallow pan, its bottom just covered 
with hot water, receives the cases, and ten min- 
utes in the oven will complete a triumph which, 
once tasted, you may well remember all the 
days of your life. 

The kidney is loved by the mushroom scarce 
less tenderly than the egg. Rognons aux chavi- 
pignons, fragrant rich, ravishing, may also be 
claimed by the happy midday hour. And like 
so many a noble dish, it lavishes upon you the 
pleasures of anticipation. For the kidneys, cut 
in slices and laid in thickened gravy, must stew 
slowly, slowly — ^never boiling, unless you would 
have them vie with leather in consistency. At 
an early stage the mushrooms, also in pieces, 
may be added, and pepper and salt according to 
inclination. And slowly, slowly let the stew- 
ing continue. At the last supreme moment 
pour in a glass of generous red wine, or if it 
please you more, Marsala, and serve without 
delay. Chambertin, or Nuits, at peace in its 



Tlie Magnificent Mushroom 151 

cradle, is surely the wine decreed by fate to 
drink with so sublime a creation. 

With the tender filet, mushrooms prove irre- 
sistible ; with the graceful cutlet they seem so 
ravishing that even sauce Soubise, the once in- 
separable, may for the moment be easily for- 
gotten. And veal is no less susceptible to its 
charms: let noisettes de veau aux champignons be 
the entrde of to-morrow's dinner, and you will 
return thanks to your deliverer from the roast! 

As sauce, mushroom is the chosen one of fowl 
and fish alike. Join your mushroomsJ:o Be'cha- 
mel, one of the great mother sauces, and you will 
have the wonder that Careme, its creator, served 
first to the Princesse de B. How resist so aristo- 
cratic a precedent? Grasse, or maigre, you can 
make it, as the season demands. Or to a like 
end you may devote that other marvel, purde de 
champignons d la Laguipierre, whose patron was 
the great Louis de Rohan, and into whose mys- 
teries Careme was initiated by the "Grand 
M. Dunan." Ham, tomato, nutmeg, pepper, 
lemon juice, are the chief ingredients that enter 
into its composition. Who, after testing it, will 
dare find naught but vexation and vanity in the 



152 The Magnificent Mushroom 

reign of the Sixteenth Louis? Subtle variation 
may be had by substituting as foundation, sauce 
h. la rdgence or sauce d. la princesse for sauce Becha- 
mel; while a sensation apart springs from the 
lofty alliance between oysters and mushrooms. 

How natural that for masterpieces in mush- 
rooms royalty so often has stood sponsor ! Upon 
the Prince of Wurtemberg rests the glorious re- 
sponsibility of Seine shad a lapur^e de champi- 
gnons. If history records not his name, a prince 
— in spirit at least — must also have been the 
first happy man to eat red mullets aux champi- 
gnons, or eels aux huttres et aux champignons; show 
yourself as princely before you are a week older. 
While a king was he who first smiled upon 
that kingly ragoUt of mushrooms, mussels, and 
shrimps. Be you a king in your turn — there 
are few pleasures equal to it. 

"For white fowls of all sort," Mrs Glasse re- 
commends her mushroom sauce, thus giving 
loose reins to the artist's fancy. The fowl may 
be boiled, and then rich with cream must be 
the sauce that redeems it from insipidity. It 
may be roasted, and then let the mushrooms be 
somewhat more in evidence. Or it may be 



The Magnificent Mushroom 153 

broiled, and then mayhap it would be wise to 
grill the mushrooms whole, instead of convert- 
ing them into sauce. Or — ^here is another sug- 
gestion, and be thankful for it — mince your 
chicken, which toast will receive gladly as a 
covering and set upon it, as already upon ceufs 
brouilles, the mushrooms grilled in butter. Long 
might you live, far might you wander, before 
chancing upon another delicacy so worthy. 
Though, truth to tell — and where gastronomy 
is the subject it is always best to be honest — 
croquettes de poulet aux champignons^ seem well-nigh 
worthier. If you would decide for yourself, try 
both, and joy go with you in the trying. 

An afterthought : dress livers with mushroom 
sauce, and this is the manner in which it should 
be done. " Take some pickled or fresh mush- 
rooms, cut small — both if you have them— and 
let the livers be bruised fine, with a good deal 
of parsley chopped small, a. spoonful or two of 
catchup, a glass of white wine, and as much 
good gravy as will make sauce enough ; thicken 
it with a piece of butter rolled in flour. This 
does for either roast or boiled." 

For the rest, how count the innumerable 



154 The Magnificent Mushroom 

ways in which the mushroom adds to the gaiety 
of the gourmand ? What would the vol-au-veni 
be without it? What the "Fine Pye," made 
otherwise of carps and artichokes and cray- 
fishes' feet and lobster claws and nutmeg and 
cloves alone ? What, according to the " Com- 
plete Court Cook," so proper for the second 
course as the patty all of mushrooms? What 
garniture fairer for "ragoo" ox fricassee, accord- 
ing to the same authority, than mushroom far- 
cisl But, however they may be served and 
eaten, mushrooms you must make yours at any 
cost. To say that, you do not like them is con- 
fession of your own philistinism. Learn to like 
them ; will to like them, or else your sojourn on 
this earth will be a wretched waste. You will 
have lived your life in vain if, at its close, you 
have missed one of its finest emotions. 



THE INCOMPARABLE ONION 

Too often the poet sees but the tears that live 
in an onion; not the smiles. And yet the 
smiles are there, broad and genial, or subtle 
and tender. "Rose among roots," its very 
name revives memories of pleasant feasting; its 
fragrance is rich forecast of delights to come. 
Without it, there would be no gastronomic art. 
Banish it from the kitchen, and all pleasure of 
eating flies with it. Its presence lends colour 
and enchantment to the most modest dish ; its 
absence reduces the rarest dainty to hopeless 
insipidity, and the diner to despair. 

The secret of good cooking lies in the dis- 
creet and sympathetic treatment of the onion. 
For what culinary masterpiece is there that 
may not be improved by it ? It gives vivacity 
to soup, life to sauce ; it is the " poetic soul" of 
the salad bowl; the touch of romance in the 
well-cooked vegetable. To it, sturdiest joint 
and lightest stew, crisp rissole and stimulating 



156 The Incomparable Onion 

stuffing look for inspiration and charm — and 
never are they disappointed! But woe betide 
the unwary woman who would approach it for 
sacrilegious ends. If life holds nothing better 
than the onion in the right hand, it offers noth- 
ing sadder and more degrading than the onion 
brutalised. Wide is the gulf fixed between the 
delicate sauce of a Prince de Soubise, and the 
coarse, unsavoury sausage and onion mess of 
the Strand. Let the perfection of the first be 
your ideal ; the horrid coarseness of the latter 
shun as you would the devil. 

The fragrance of this "wine-scented" escu- 
lent not only whets the appetite; it abounds in 
associations glad and picturesque. All Italy 
is in the fine, penetrating smell; and all Pro- 
vence; and all Spain. An onion or garlic- 
scented atmosphere hovers alike over the nar- 
row calli of Venice, the cool courts of Cordova, 
and the thronged amphitheatre of Aries. It is 
only the atmosphere breathed by the Latin peo- 
ples of the South, so that ever must it suggest 
blue skies and endless sunshine, cypress groves 
and olive orchards. For the traveller it is in- 
terwoven with memories of the golden canvases 



The Incomparable Onion 157 

of Titian, the song of Dante, the music of Mas- 
cagni. The violet may not work a sweeter 
spell, nor the carnation yield a more intoxicat- 
ing perfume. 

And some men there have been in the past to 
rank the onion as a root sacred to Aphrodite: 
food for lovers. To the poetry of it none but 
the dull and brutal can long remain indifferent. 

Needless, then, to dwell upon its more prosaic 
side : upon its power as a tonic, its value as a 
medicine. Medicinal properties it has, as the 
drunkard knows full well. But why consider 
the drunkard ? Leave him to the tender mer- 
cies of the doctor. Gourmandise, or the love of 
good eating, here the one and only concern, is 
opposed to excess. " Every man who eats to 
indigestion, or makes himself drunk, runs 
the risk of being erased from the list of its 
votaries. " 

The onion is but the name for a large family, 
of which shallots, garlic, and chives are chief 
and most honoured varieties. Moreover, 
country and climate work upon it changes many 
and strange. In the south it beomes larger and 
more opulent, like the women. And yet, as it 



iS8 The Incomparable Onion 

increases in size, it loses in strength — who shall 
say why ? And the loss truly is an improve- 
ment. Our own onion often is strong even 
unto rankness. Therefore, as all good house- 
wives understand, the Spanish species for most 
purposes may be used instead, and great will be 
the gain thereby. Still further south, still 
further east, you will journey but to find the 
onion fainter in flavour, until in India it seems 
but a pale parody of its English prototype. 
And again, at different seasons, very different 
are its most salient qualities. In great glad- 
ness of heart everyone must look forward to the 
dainy little spring onion : adorable as vegetable 
cooked in good white sauce, inscrutable as 
guardian spirit of fresh green salad, irreproach- 
able as pickle in vinegar and mustard. 

Garlic is one of the most gracious gifts of the 
gods to men — a gift, alas! too frequently 
abused. In the vegetable world, it has some^ 
thing of the value of scarlet among colours, of 
the clarionet's call in music. Brazen, and 
crude, and screaming, when dragged into un- 
due prominence, it may yet be made to har- 
monise divinely with fish and fowl, with meat, 



The Incomparable Onion 159 

and other greens. Thrown wholesale into a 
salad, it is odious and insupportable ; but used 
to rub the salad bowl, and then cast aside, its 
virtue may not be exaggerated. For it, as for 
lovers, the season of seasons is the happy spring 
time. Its true home is Provence. What would 
be the land of the troubadour and the F^libre 
without the ail that festoons every greengro- 
cer's shop, that adorns evei-y dish at every ban- 
quet of rich and poor alike ? As well rid bouil- 
labaisse of its saffron as of its ail; as well forget 
the pomme d' amour in the sauce for macaroni, or 
the rosemary and the thyme on the spit with 
the little birds. The verse of Roumanille and 
Mistral smells sweet of ail; Tartarin and Numa 
Roumestan are heroes nourished upon it. It is 
the very essence of farandoles and ferrades, of 
bull-fights and water tournaments. A pinch 
of ail, a coup de vin, and then — 

Viva la joia, 
Fidon la tristessa ! 

And all the while we, in the cold, gloomy north, 
eat garlic and are hated for it by friends and 
foes. Only in the hot south can life a/7-inspired 
pass for a galejado or jest. 



i6o The Incomparable Onion 

To the onion, the shallot is as the sketch to 
the finished picture; slighter, it may be; but 
often subtler and more suggestive. Unrivalled 
in salads and sauces,^ it is without compare in 
the sumptuous seasoning of the most fantastic 
viands. It does not assert itself with the fury 
and pertinacity of garlic ; it does not announce 
its presence with the self-consciousness of the 
onion. It appeals by more refined devices, by 
gentler means, and is to be prized accordingly. 
Small and brown, it is pleasant to look upon as 
the humble wild rose by the side of the Gloire 
de Dijon. And, though it never attain to the 
imtempered voluptuousness of the onion, it 
develops its sweetness and strength under 
the hottest suns of summer: in July, August, 
and September, does it mature; then do 
its charms ripen ; then may it be enjoyed in 
full perfection, and satisfy the most riotous 
gluttony. 

Shallots for summer by preference, but chives 
for spring: the delicate chives, the long, slim 
leaves, fair to look upon, sweet to smell, 
sweeter still to eat in crisp green salad. The 
name is a little poem ; the thing itself falls not 



The Incomparable Onion i6i 

far short of the divine. Other varieties there 
be, other offshoots of the great onion — mother 
of all; none, however, of greater repute, of 
wider possibilities than these. To know them 
well is to master the fundamental principles of 
the art of cookery. But this is knowledge 
given unto the few; the many, no doubt, will 
remain for ever in the outer darkness, where 
the onion is condemned to everlasting compan- 
ionship with the sausage — not altogether their 
fault, perhaps. In cookery, as in all else, too 
often the blind do lead the blind. But a few 
years since and a "delicate diner," an authority 
unto himself at least, produced upon the art of 
dining a book, not without reputation. But to 
turn to its index is to find not one reference to 
the onion : all the poetry gone ; little but prose 
left ! And this from an authority ! 

The onion, as a dish, is excellent; as season- 
ing it has still more pleasant and commodious 
merits. The modern chef Vi&&^ it chiefly to sea- 
son ; the ancient cordon bleu set his wits to work 
to discover spices and aromatic ingredients 
wherewith to season it. Thus, according to 
Philemon, — ■ 



1 62 The Incomparable Onion 

If you waut an onion, just consider 

What great expense it takes to make it good ; 

You must have cheese, and honey, and sesame, 

Oil, leeks, and vinegar, and assafcetida. 

To dress it up with ; for by itself the onion 

Is bitter and unpleasant to the taste. 

A pretty mess, indeed ; and who is there brave 
enough to-day to test it? Honey and onion! it 
suggests the ingenious contrivances of the med- 
iaeval kitchen. The most daring experiment 
now would be a dash of wine, red or white, a 
suspicion of mustard, a touch of tomato in the 
sauce for onions, stewed or boiled, baked or 
stuffed. To venture upon further flights of 
fancy the average cook would consider indis- 
creet, though to the genius all things are pos- 
sible. However, its talents for giving savour 
and character to other dishes is inexhaustible. 
There is no desire more natural than that of 
knowledge ; there is no knowledge nobler than 
that of the "gullet-science." "The discovery 
of a new dish does more for the happiness of 
the human race than the discovery of a planet I" 
What would be Talleyrand's record but for that 
moment of inspiration when, into the mysteries 



The Incomparable Onion 163 

of Parmesan with soup, he initiated his coun- 
trymen ? To what purpose the Crusades, had 
Crusaders not seen and and loved the garlic on 
the plains of Askalon, and brought it home 
with them, their one glorious trophy. To a 
pudding Richelieu gave his name; the Prince 
de Soubise lent his to a sauce, and thereby won 
for it immortality. 

A benefactor to his race indeed he was: 
worthy of a shrine in the Temple of Humanity. 
For, plucking the soul from the onion, he laid 
bare its hidden and sweetest treasure to the 
elect. Scarce a sauce is served that owes not 
fragrance and flavour to the wine-scented root; 
to it, Btarnaise, Mattre d' Hbtel, Espagnole, Ita- 
lienne. Bechamel, Proven^ale, and who shall say 
how many more? look for the last supreme 
touch that redeems them from insipid common- 
place. But Sauce Soubise is the very idealisa- 
tion of the onion, its very essence; at once deli- 
cate and strong ; at once as simple and as per- 
fect as all great works of art. 

The plodding painter looks upon a nocturne 
by Whistler, and thinks how easy, how prepos- 
terously easy ! A touch here, a stroke there, and 



164 The Incomparable Onion 

the thing is done. But let him try ! And so 
with Sauce Soubise. Turn to the first cookery 
book at hand, and read the recipe. " Peel four 
large onions and cut them into thin slices; 
sprinkle a little pepper and salt upon them, 
together with a small quantity of nutmeg; put 
them into a saucepan with a slice of fresh but- 
ter, and steam gently"— let them smile, the true 
artist would say — " till they are soft. " But why 
go on with elaborate directions ? Why describe 
the exact quantity of flour, the size of the pota- 
to, the proportions of milk and cream to be 
added? Why explain in detail the process of 
rubbing through a sieve? In telling or the 
reading these matters seem' not above the intel- 
ligence of a little child. But in the actual 
making, only the artist understands the secret 
of perfection, and his understanding is born 
within him, not borrowed from dry statistics 
and formal tables. He may safely be left to 
vary his methods; he may add sugar, he may 
omit nutmeg; he may fry the onions instead of 
boiling, for love of the tinge of bro\?n, rich 
and sombre, thus obtained. But, whatever he 
does, always with a wooden spoon will he stir 



The Incomparable Onion 165 

his savoury mixture; always, as result, produce 
a godlike sauce which the mutton cutlets of 
Paradise, vying with Heine's roast goose, will 
offer of their own accord at celestial banquets. 
What wonder that a certain famous French 
count despised the prosaic politician who had 
never heard of cutlets a la Soubise ? 

However, not alone in sauce can the conde- 
scending onion come to the aid of dull, substan- 
tial flesh and fowl. Its virtue, when joined to 
sage in stuffing, who will gainsay ? Even chest- 
nuts, destined to stuff to repletion the yawning 
turkey, cannot, afford to ignore the insinuating 
shallot or bolder garlic; while no meat comes 
into the market that will not prove the better 
and the sweeter for at least a suspicion of onion 
or of ail. A barbarian truly is the cook -who 
flings a mass of fried onions upon the tender 
steak, and then thinks to offer you a rare and 
dainty dish. Not with such wholesale brutal- 
ity can the ideal be attained. The French chef 
has more tact. He will take his gigot and sym- 
pathetically prick it here and there with gaylic 
or with chives, even as it is roasting; and who- 
ever has never tasted mutton thus prepared 



1 66 The Incomparable Onion 

knows not the sublimest heights of human hap- 
piness. Or else he will make a bouquet garni o£ 
his own, entirely of these aromatic roots and 
leaves, and fasten it in dainty fashion to the 
joint; pleasure is doubled when he forgets to 
remove it, and the meat is placed upon the 
table, still bearing its delicious decoration. 
Moods there be that call for stronger effects: 
moods when the blazing poppy field of a Monet 
pleases more than the quiet moonlight of a 
Cazin; when Tennyson is put aside for Swin- 
burne. At such times, call for a shoulder of 
mutton, well stuffed with onions, and still fur- 
ther satiate your keen, vigorous appetite with 
a bottle of Beaune or Pomard. But here, a 
warning : eat and drink with at least a pretence 
of moderation. Remember that, but for an ex- 
cess of shoulder of mutton and onions, Napo- 
leon might not have been defeated at Leipzig. 
But at all times, and in all places, onions 
clamour for moderation. A salad of tomatoes 
buried under thick layers of this powerful es- 
culent must disgust; gently sprinkled with 
chopped-up chives or shallots, it enraptures. 
Potatoes h la Lyonnaise, curried eggs, Irish stew, 



The Incomparable Onion 167 

Gutyas, ragout, alike demand restraint in their 
preparation, a sweet reasonableness in the 
hand that distributes the onion. 

For the delicate diner, as for the drunkard, 
onion soup has charm. It is of the nature of 
sauce Soubise, and what mightier recommend- 
ation could be given it? Thus Dumas, the 
high priest of the kitchen, made it: a dozen 
onions — Spanish by preference — minced wi-th 
discretion, fried in freshest of fresh butter until 
turned to a fair golden yellow, he boiled in 
three pints or so of water, adequately seasoned 
with salt and pepper; and then, at the end oi 
twenty full minutes, he mixed with this prep- 
aration the yolks of two or three eggs, and 
poured the exquisite liquid upon bread, cut and 
ready. At the thought alone the mouth waters, 
the eye brightens. The adventurous, now and 
again, add ham or rice, vegetables or a bouquet 
garni. But this as you will, according to the 
passing hour's leisure. Only of one thing 
make sure — in Dumas confidence is ever to be 
placed without doubt or hesitation. 

Dumas' soup for dinner ; but for breakfast the 
unrivalled omelette of Brillat-Savarin. It is 



1 68 ' The Incomparable Onion 

made after this fashion : the roes of two carp, 
a piece of fresh tunny, and shallots, well hashed 
and mixed, are thrown into a saucepan with a 
lump of butter beyond reproach, and whipped 
up till the butter is melted, which, says the 
great one, "constitutes the speciality of the 
omelette;" in the meantime, let some one pre- 
pare, upon an oval dish, a mixture of butter and 
parsley, lemon juice, and chives — not shallots 
here, let the careless note — the plate to be left 
waiting over hot embers; next beat up twelve 
eggs, pour in the roes and tunny, stir with the 
zeal and sympathy of an artist, spread upon the. 
plate that waits so patiently, serve at once ; and 
words fail to describe the ecstasy that follows. 
Especially, to quote again so eminent an author- 
ity, let the omelette " be washed down with 
some good old wine, and you will see wonders," 
undreamed of by haschish or opium eater. 

When the little delicate spring onion is smelt 
in the land, a shame, indeed, it would be to 
waste its tender virginal freshness upon sauce 
and soup. Rather refrain from touching it 
with sharp knife or cruel chopper, but in its 
gracefuf maiden form boil it, smother it in rich 



The Incomparable Onion 169 

pure cream, and serve it on toast, to the un- 
speakable delectation of the devout. Life 
yields few more precious moments. Until 
spring comes, however, you may do worse than 
apply the same treatment to the older onion. 
In this case, as pleasure's crown of pleasure, 
adorn the surface with grated Gruyere, and, 
like the ancient hero, you will wish your throat 
as long as a crane's neck, that so you might 
the longer and more leisurely taste what you 
swallow. 

Onions farcis are beloved by the epicure. A 
nobler dish could scarce be devised. You may 
make your forcemeats of what you will, beef or 
mutton, fowl or game; you may, an' you please, 
add truffles, mushrooms, olives, and capers. 
But know one thing; tasteless it will prove, 
and lifeless, unless bacon lurk unseen some- 
where within its depths. Ham will answer in 
a way, but never so well as humbler bacon. 
The onion that lends itself most kindly to this 
device is the Spanish. 

One word more. As the ite missa est of the 
discourse let this truth — a blessing in itself — be 
spoken. As with meat, so with vegetables, few 



170 The Incomparable Onion 

are not the better for the friendly companion- 
ship of the onion, or one of its many offshoots. 
Peas, beans, tomatoes, egg-plant are not indif- 
ferent to its blandishments. If honour be paid 
to the first pig that uprooted a truffle, what of 
the first man who boiled an onion ? And what 
of the still mightier genius who first used it as 
seasoning for his daily fare? Every gourmet 
should rise up and call him blessed. 



THE TRIUMPHANT TOMATO 

The triumph of the tomato has given hungry 
men and women a new lease of pleasure. Sad 
and drear were the days when the gourmet 
thought to feast, and the beautiful scarlet fruit 
had no place upon his table. The ancient chef 
knew it not, nor the mediaeval artist who, even 
without it, could create marvellous works the 
modern may not hope to rival. Like so many 
good things, it first saw the light in that happy 
Western Contiiient where the canvas-back duck 
makes its home and shad swim in fertile rivers. 
What, indeed, was life, what the gift of eating, 
before the Coltlrhbus of the kitchen had dis- 
covered the tomato, the turkey, and the yellow 
Indian corn ? Reflect upon it, and be grateful 
that you, at le§st, were, not born in the Dark 
Age of cookery ! 

Poor, stupid man! a treasure was presented 
to him freely and generously, and he thrust it 

from him. The tomato offered itself a willing 
171 



172 The Triumphant Tomato 

sacrifice, and he scorned it, mistaking gold for 
dross. The American — and long years in pur- 
gatory will not redeem his fault — looked upon 
it with suspicion. To-day, it is true, he hon- 
ours it aright: in the summer-time he bows 
down before its gay freshness ; in the winter he 
cherishes it in tins. It has become as indispen- 
sable to him as salt or butter. He values it at 
its true worth. But still, half a century has 
not passed since he doubted it, heaping insults 
upon its trusting sweetness. He fancied poison 
lurked within it. Othe cruel fancy! There it 
was, perfect and most desirable, and he, blind 
fool, would not touch it until endless hours of 
stewing had lessened, if not utterly destroyed, 
its fresh young charms. And the Englishman 
was no wiser. Within the last decade only has 
he welcomed the stranger at his gates, and at 
the best his welcome has been but halting and 
half-hearted. The many' continue obstinately 
to despise it; the few have pledged their alle- 
giance with reservations. The Latin, and even 
the wild Hun, were converted without a fear of 
misgiving while the Anglo-Saxon faltered and 
was weak. Many and beautiful are the strange 



The Triumphant Tomato 173 

dishes the tomato adorns in Magyarland. Was 
there ever a menu in sunny Italy that did not 
include this meat or that vegetable al pomodoro ? 
The very Spaniard, whom rumour weds irrevo- 
cably to garlic, nourishes a tender passion for 
the voluptuous red fruit, and wins rapture from 
it. And deep and true is the Provengal's love 
for his pomme d'amourj is not the name a meas- 
ure of his affection ? The Love Apple ! Were 
there, after all, tomatoes in Judea, and were 
these the apples that comforted the love-sick 
Shulamite? 

Now that the tomato has 'forced universal 
recognition ; now that in England it lends glory 
of colour to the greengrocer's display; now that 
the hothouse defeats the cruel siege of the seas- 
ons, and mild May, as well as mellow Septem- 
ber, yields apples of love, pause a moment, 
turn from the trivial cares of life, to meditate 
upon its manifold virtues. 

The tomato as a vegetable should be the 
first point of the meditation. Let us reflect. 
Stewed, though not as in America of old, until 
all flavour is lost, it has the merit of simplicity 
by no means to be underestimated : drained of 



174 The Triumphant Tomato 

the greater part of its juice, thickened slightly 
with flour, it cannot disappoint. Au graiin, it 
aspires to more delirious joys: the pleasure 
yielded develops in proportion to the pains 
taken to produce it. Into a baking dish olive 
oil is poured in moderation; a sprinkling of 
salt and pepper and fragrant herbs well pow- 
dered, together with bread-crumbs duly grated, 
follows ; next the tomatoes, eager and blushing, 
whole or in dainty halves, as the impulse of 
the moment may prompt; more breadcrumbs 
and pepper and salt and herbs must cover them 
gently, more oil be poured upon the stirring 
harmony; and an hour in the oven will turn 
you out as pretty a side-dish as was ever de- 
vised by ingenious Mrs Glasse, who— O the 
pity of it — lived too soon for fond dalliance 
with love's crowning vegetable. 

Farcies tomatoes may not easily be surpassed. 
Upon your whim or choice it will depend whe- 
ther you stuff them whole, or cut them in half 
for so ineffable a purpose. And upon your 
whim likewise depends the special forcemeat 
used. Chopped mushrooms, parsley and shal- 
lot, seasoned with discretion, leave little to ask 



The Triumphant Tomato 175 

for. Prepare, instead, sausage meat, garlic, 
parsley, tarragon, and chives, and the tomatoes 
so stuffed you may without pedantry call h la 
Grimod de la Reynilre. But whatever you call 
them, count upon happiness in the eating. 

Second point of the meditation : the tomato 
as an auxiliary. If you have learned the trick 
of association, at once you see before you a 
steaming harmony in pale yellow and scarlet, 
the long soft tubes of macaroni or spaghetti en- 
compassed round about by a deep stream of 
tomatoes stewed and seasoned; at once you 
feast upon macaroni al pomodoro and Chianti, and 
Italy lies, like a map, before your mind's eye, 
its towns and villages marked by this dish of 
dishes. With rice, tomatoes are no less in 
pleasant, peaceful unity ; in stuffed paprika, or 
pepper, they find their true affinity. Grilled, 
they make a sympathetic garniture iox filet piqu^ 
a la Richelieu ; stuffed, they are the proper ac- 
companiment of tournedos A la Leslie; neatly 
halved, they serve as a foundation to soles A la 
Loie Fuller. Chickens clamour for them as ally, 
and so does the saltest of salt cod. In a word, 
a new combination they might with ease pro- 



176 The Triumphant Tomato 

vide for every day in the year. Enough will 
have been said if this one truth is established : 
there is scarce a fish or fowl, scarce any meat 
or vegetable, that is not the better and the 
nobler for the temporary union with the tomato. 
And now, the third point of the meditation, 
which, too often, escapes the prosaic, unmedita- 
tive islander: the tomato as a dish for break- 
fast. Only recently it was thus that two of 
rare beauty and sweet savour fulfilled their des- 
tiny : on a plate f asioned by barbarous potters 
on the banks of the Danube, where the love- 
apple grows in gay profusion, stretched a thin, 
crisp slice of bacon decoratively streaked with 
fat and grilled to a turn ; it bore, as twin flow- 
ers, the two tomatoes, also grilled, fragrant, 
tender, delectable. Surely here was a poetic 
prelude to the day's toil. To Belgium all 
praise be given for teaching that, stewed and 
encircling buttered or scrambled eggs, tomatoes 
may again enliven the breakfast table, that bit- 
ter test of conjugal devotion; to France, the 
credit of spreading tiiem at the bottom of plate 
or dish as a bed for eggs artistically poached or 
fried. History records the names of generals 



The Triumphant Tomato lyy 

and Hates of battles, but what chronicler has 
immortalised the genius who first enclosed to- 
matoes in an omelet? This is a brutal, un- 
grateful world we live in. 

And now pass on to the fourth heading, and 
new ecstasies : the tomato as salad. Remember 
that the tomatoes must be deftly sliced in their 
skins or else the juice escapes ; that a touch of 
onion or garlic is indispensable ; that the dress- 
ing must be of oil and vinegar, pepper and salt; 
unless, of course, a mayonnaise be made. An- 
other weird salad there is with qualities to 
endear it to the morbid and neurotic. Let it 
be explained briefly, that lurid description may 
not be thought to exaggerate lurid attraction : 
drop your tomatoes, brilliantly red as the ab- 
horred Scarlet Woman, into hot water in order 
to free them of their skins; place them whole, 
and in passionate proximity, in a dish of silver 
or delicate porcelain ; smother them under a 
thick layer of whipped cream. For the sake of 
decoration and the unexpected, stick in here 
and there a pistachio nut, and thank the gods 
for the new sensation. 

In soup, thin or clear, the tomato knows no 



1/8 The Triumphant Tomato 

rival; in sauce, it stands supreme, ranking 
worthily with the four classical sauces of the 
French cuisine. And here, a suggestion to be 
received with loud, jubilant Alleluias! Follow 
the example of Attila's heirs, and, as last touch, 
pour cream upon your tomato sauce. He who 
has known and eaten and loved paprika gefullte 
in the wilds of Transylvania, will bear willing 
witness to the admirable nature of this expe- 
dient. 

The more devout, the professed worshipper, 
will eat his love-apple without artificial device 
of cookery or dressing, with only salt for sa- 
vour. For this excess of devotion, however, 
unqualified commendation would not be just. 
Unadorned the tomato is not adorned the most. 

But cook or serve it as you will, see that it 
be eaten by you and yours — that is the main 
thing. The tomatoes that make glad the heart 
of the loiterer in Covent Garden are fresh as 
the sweet breath of May. 



A DISH OF SUNSHINE 

"The weather is regarded as the very nadir 
and scoff of conversational topics." How can 
the ingenious housewife talk of aught else in 
the Winter season ? Not because, as Mr Steven- 
son argues, "the dramatic element in scenery 
is far more tractable in language, and far more 
human both in import and suggestion, than the 
stable features of the landscape," but because 
upon it she is dependent for ease and success in 
making her every luncheon and dinner a culi- 
nary triumph. 

Of what avail the morning's conference with 
the greengrocer's boy, or even the conscientious 
visit to the greengrocer's shop or the ramble 
through the market — unless, perhaps, and hap- 
pily, her pockets be lined with gold, when hot- 
house vegetables, and out-of-season delicacies, 
must be paid for with the alacrity of a Croesus ? 
Otherwise, dark, hopeless despair seizes upon 
her ? Must she not brood in abject melancholy 

I7Q 



i8o A Disk of Sunshine 

when the hideous truth is revealed to her that 
earth's resources are limited to turnip-tops and 
Brussels sprouts, with, it may be, a few Jeru- 
salem artichokes thrown in ? Celery, the 
lordly, is frozen. Cauliflower, the fragrant, 
frost-bitten irretrievably, will not yield to the 
most urgent inducements of hot water. Let- 
tuce is a thing of the past and of the future. 
Sad and drear indeed is the immediate pros- 
pect. For surely turnip-tops are a delusion, 
and against the monotony of sprouts the aspir- 
ing soul rebels. 

It is at this crisis that hope flames right in a 
strangely neglected corner. Italian sunshine 
and blue skies, concentrated in flour paste, 
wrought into tubes and ribbons, squares and 
loeenges, come to gladden the sinking heart 
and cheer the drooping spirits. Why despair 
Avhen macaroni is always to be had, inestimable 
as a vegetable, unrivalled as an enMe, a perfect 
meal, if you choose, in itself? 

Upon the imagination of those to whom food 
is something besides a mere satisfaction to car- 
nal appetite, macaroni works a strange, subtle 
spell. The very name conjures up sweet poetic 



A Dish of Sunshine i8l 

visions ; it is the magic crystal or beryl stone, 
in which may be seen known things, dear to 
the memory : smiling valleys where the vines 
are festooned, not as Virgil saw them, from 
elm to elm, but from mulberry to mulberry; 
and where the beautiful, broad-horned, white 
oxen drag, in solemn dignity, the crawling 
plough; olive-clad slopes and lonely stone 
palms; the gleam of sunlit rivers winding with 
the reeds and the tall, slim poplars; the friendly 
wayside trattoria and th*e pleasant refrain of the 
beaming cameriere, " Subito Signora ; ecco!" — a 
refrain ceaseless as the buzzing of bees among 
the clover. In a dish of macaroni lies all Italy 
for the woman with eyes to see or a heart to 
feel. 

Or visions more personal, more intimate, she 
may summon for her own delight ; the midday 
halt and lunch in Castiglione del Lago on its 
gentle hill-top, the blue of Thrasymene's lake 
shining between the olives', and all fair to be- 
hold, save the padrone with his conscienceless 
charges for the bowl of macaroni that had been 
so good in the eating. Or else, perhaps, the 
evening meal in the long refectory at Monte 



1 82 A Dish of Sunshine 

Oliveto, with the white-robed brothers; or, 
again, the unforgetable breakfast at Pompeii's 
Albergo del Sole, the good wine ranged upon the 
old tree trunk that serves as central column, 
the peacock, tail outspread, strutting about 
among the chairs and tables, the overpowering 
sweetness of the flowering bean stealing, from 
near fields, through open doors and windows. 
Or, still again, the thought of Pompeii sends 
one off upon the journey from its ruined streets 
to Naples — on one side the Bay, on the other 
the uninterrupted line of villages, every low 
white house adorned with garlands of macaroni 
drying peacefully and swiftly in the hot sun. 
And a few pence only will it cost to dream such 
dreams of beauty and of gladness. 

Many as are the devices for preparing this 
stuff that dreams are made of, none can excel 
.the simplest of all.- Eat it the way the Italian 
loves it, and for yourself you open up new vis- 
tas of pleasure. And what could be easier? 
In water well salted — upon the salt much de- 
pends — the macaroni, preferably in the large 
generous tubes, is boiled for twenty minutes, 
or half an hour, until it is as soft as soft may 



A Dish of Sunshine 183 

be without breaking. A capacious bowl, its 
sides well buttered and sprinkled with grated 
Parmesan cheese, must wait in readiness. Into 
it put the macaroni, well drained of the water, 
into its midst drop a large piece of sweet, fresh 
butter, and sprinkle, without stint, more of the 
indispensable Parmesan ; mix wisely and with 
discrimination; and then eat to your soul's, or 
stomach's, content. To further your joy, have 
at your side a flash of Chianti, pure and strong, 
standing in no need of baptism. The gods 
never fared better. But, one word of advice: 
if this dish you serve for luncheon, defy 
convention, and make it the first and last 
and only course. It niay seem meagre in 
the telling. But to treat it with due respect 
and justice much must be eaten, and this 
much makes more impossible even to the 
hopeful. 

Another word of advice : never break or cut 
the macaroni into small pieces; the cook who 
dares to disobey in this particular deserves in- 
stant and peremptory dismissal. Where is the 
poetry, where the art, if it can be eaten with as 
little trouble and planning as an everyday 



184 A Dish of Sunshine 

potato, or a mess of greens? Who, that has 
seen, can forget the skilful Italian winding the 
long steaming tubes around and around his 
fork, his whole soul and intelligence concen- 
trated upon the pretty feat of transposing these 
tubes from his fork to his mouth. It is difficult ; 
■ yes, especially for the foreigner; but where is 
the pleasure without pain ? As well tear your 
Troyon or your Diaz into shreds, and enjoy it 
in bits, as violate the virginal lengths of your 
macaroni. 

In more lavish mood, prepare it al sugo, and 
no cause need you fear for regret. It is well- 
nigh as simple; the macaroni, or better still 
spaghetti, the smaller, daintier variety, once 
boiled, is taken from the water only to be 
plunged in rich gravy, its quantity varying 
according to the quantity of spaghetti used; let 
it boil anew, or rather simmer, until each long 
tube is well saturated; then, add the cheese 
and butter, and say your Benedicite with a full 
heart. 

Or, would you have it richer still, and so 
tempt Providence? Make tomato the founda- 
tion of the gravy, spice it with cloves, bring 



A Disk of Sunshine 185 

out the sweet bouquet garni, serve with butter 
and Parmesan cheese as before, and call the 
result Macaroni d, la Napolitaine. Spaghetti, here 
again, will answer the purpose as well, nor 
will the pretty, flat, wavy ribbon species come 
amiss. To court perfection, rely upon mush- 
rooms for one of the chief elements in this 
adorable concoction, and the whole world over 
you may travel without finding a dish worthy 
to compete with it. Macaroni can yield noth- 
ing more exquisite, though not yet are its re- 
sources exhausted. 

Au gratin it is also to be commended. The 
preliminary boiling may now, as always, be 
taken for granted. With its chosen and well- 
tried accompaniments of butter and Parmesan 
cheese, and steeped in a good white sauce, it 
may simmer gently over the fire until the sym- 
pathetic butter be absorbed ; then in a decently 
prepared dish, and covered with bread-crumbs, 
it should bake until it is warmed into a golden- 
brown harmony that enraptures the eye. Or 
with stronger seasoning, with onion and pepper 
and cayenne, you may create a savoury beyond 
compare. Or combined with the same ingredi- 



1 86 A Disk of Sunshine 

ents you may stew your macaroni in milk, and 
revel in macaroni sauU ; worse a hundred times, 
truly, might you fare. 

But, if you would be wholly reckless, why, 
then try Macaroni a la Fontife, and know that 
human ambition may scarce pretend to nobler 
achievements. For a mould of goodly propor- 
tions you fill with macaroni and forcemeat of 
fowl and larks and bits of bacon and mush- 
rooms and game filleted; and this inefEable 
arrangement you moisten with gravy and allow 
to simmer slowly, as befits its importance, for 
an hour ; eat it, and at last you too, with Faust, 
may hail the fleeting moment, and bid it stay, 
because it is so fair! 

In puddings and pies macaroni is most excel- 
lent. But if you be not lost beyond redemp- 
tion, never sweeten either one or the other ; the 
suggestion of such sacrilege alone is horrid. 
Into little croquettes it may by cunning hands 
be modelled ; en timbale, in well-shaped mould, 
it reveals new and welcome possibilities. With 
fish it assimilates admirably; in soup it is 
above criticism. It Will strengthen the flavour 
of chestnuts, nor will it disdain the stimulating 



A Dish of Sunshine 187 

influence of wine, white or red. And in the 
guise of nouilles, or nudels, it may be stuffed 
with forcemeat of fowl or beef, and so clamour 
for the rich tomato saure. 



ON SALADS 

To speak of salads in aught but the most 
reverential spirit were sacrilege. To be hon- 
oured aright, they should be eaten only in the 
company of the devout or in complete soli- 
tude — and perhaps this latter is the wiser plan. 
Who, but the outer barbarian, will not with a 
good salad, 

A book, a taper, and a cup 
Of country wine, divinely sup? 

Over your hot meats you cannot linger; if 
alone with them, and read you must, a com- 
mon newspaper, opened at the day's despatches, 
best serves your purpose; else, your gravies 
and sauces congeal into a horrid white mess 
upon your plate, and tepid is every unsavoury 
morsel your fork carries to your mouth. But 
over any one of the "salad clan" — lettuce or 
tomato, beans or potato, as fancy prompts — you 
can revel at leisure in your Balzac, your Heine, 
189 



I go On Salads. 

your Montaigne, which, surely, it would be 
desecration to spread open by the side of the 
steaming roast or the prosaic bacon and eggs. 
There has always seemed one thing lacking in 
Omar's Paradise: a salad, he should have bar- 
gained for with his Book of Verses, his Jug of 
Wine, and Loaf of Bread "underneath the 
Bough." 

Far behind has the Continent left Great 
Britain in the matter of salads. To eat them 
in perfection you must cross the Channel — as, 
indeed, you must in the pursuit of all the daint- 
iest dishes — and travel still farther than France. 
The French will give you for breakfast a bowl 
of Soissons, for dinner a Homaine, which long 
survive as tender memories; even the humble 
dandelion they have enlisted in the good cause. 
With the Italian you will fare no less well ; bet- 
ter it may be, for, with the poetic feeling that 
has disappeared for ever from their art and 
architecture, they fill the salad bowl at times 
with such delicate conceits as tender young 
violet leaves, so that you may smell the spring 
in the blossoms at your throat, while you de- 
vour it in the greens set before you. But in 



On Salads. 191 

Germany, though there may be less play of 
fancy in the choice of materials, there is far 
greater poetry in the mixing of them. As an 
atonement for that offence against civilisation, 
the midday dinner, the Germans have invented 
a late supper that defies the critic: the very 
meanest Speise-Saal is transfigured when the 
gaslight falls softly on the delicious potato or 
cucumber or herring salads of the country, 
flanked by the tall slim glasses of amber Rhe- 
nish wine. But, excelling Germany, even as 
Germany excels France, Hungary is the true 
home of the salad. It would take a book to 
exhaust the praise it there inspires. To die 
eating salad on the banks of the Danube to 
the wail of the Czardas — that would be the 
true death! What, however, save the ideals 
realised, is to be effected in a land where 
tomatoes are as plentiful as are potatoes in 
Ireland ? 

The Briton, it must be admitted, has of late 
progressed. Gone is the time when his favour- 
ite salad was a horror unspeakable: an onion 
and a lettuce served whole, chopped up by 
himself, smothered in salt and pepper, and 



192 On Salads 

fairly sluiced with vinegar. To understand 
the full iniquity of it, you must remember what 
an excess of vinegar the stalwart Briton was 
equal to in those days, now happily past. An 
imperial pint, Mr Weller's friend, the coach- 
man with the hoarse voice, took with his oys- 
ters without betraying the least emotion. As 
benighted, smacking no less of the Dark Ages, 
is the custom of serving with cheese a lettuce 
(of the long crisp species known as cos in the 
cookery books), cut ruthlessly in halves. You 
are supposed to dip the leaves into salt, and 
afterwards return thanks with a grateful heart. 
Many there are who will still eat lettuce in this 
fashion with their tea ; the curious student of 
evolution can point to it as a survival of the 
old barbarism ; to the mustard and cress or cu- 
cumber sandwiches which have replaced it, as 
a higher phase of development. 

But, though these sorry customs still survive 
here and there, even as superstitions linger 
among ignorant peasants, British eyes are open- 
ing to the truth. The coming of the salad in 
England marks the passing of the Englishman 
from barbarous depth to civilised heights. Has 



On Salads 193 

he not exchanged his old-love Frith for Whist- 
ler, and has he not risen from G. P. R. James 
to George Meredith? Not a whit less impor- 
tant in the history of his civilisation is his 
emancipation from that vile, vinegar-drenched 
abomination to the succulent tomato, the un- 
rivalled potato, well "fatigued" in the "capa- 
cious salad-bowl." 

Of every woman worthy of the name, it is the 
duty to master the secret of the perfect salad, 
and to prepare it for her own — and man's — 
greater comfort and joy in this life, and — who 
knows ? — salvation in the next. This secret is 
all in the dressing. It is easy enough to buy 
in the market, or order at the greengrocer's a 
lettuce, or a cucumber, or a pound of tomatoes. 
But to make of them a masterpiece, there's the 
rub. Upon the dressing and "fatiguing" suc- 
cess depends. The mission of the lettuce, the 
resources of the bean were undreamed of until 
the first woman — it must have been a woman ! 
— divined the virtue that lies in the harmonious 
combination of oil and vinegar.. Vinegar alone 
and undiluted is for the vulgar ; mixed with oil 
it as much surpasses nectar and ambrosia as 
13 



194 On Salads 

these hitherto have been reckoned superior to 
the liquors of mere human brewing. Of mayon- 
naise nothing need as yet be said ; it ranks rather 
with sauceis, irreproachable vvhen poured upon 
salmon, or chicken, or lobster — upon the sim- 
pler and more delicate salads it seems well- 
nigh too strong and coarse. The one legiti- 
mate dressing in these cases is made of vinegar 
and oil, pepper and salt, and, on certain rare 
occasions, mustard. 

As, with sauces, it is simple to put down in 
blapk and y/hite the several ingredients of the 
good dressing. But what of the proportions? 
What of the methods of mixing? In the large 
towns of the United States where men and 
women delight in the pleasures of the table, 
are specialists who spend their afternoons going 
from house to house, preparing th$ salads for 
the day's coming great event. And perhaps, 
in the end, all mankind may see advantages in 
this division of labour. For only the, genius 
born can mix a salad dressing, as it should be 
mixed. Quantities of pepper and salt, of oil 
and vinegar for him (or, her) are not measured 
by rule or recipe, but by inspiration. You 



On Salads 195 

may generalise and insist upon one spoonful of 
oil for every guest and one for the bowl — some- 
what in the manner of tea-making — and then 
one-third the quantity of vinegar. But out of 
these proportions the Philistine will evolve for 
you a nauseating concoction; the initiated, a 
dressing of transcendental merit. 

As much depends upon the mixing as upon 
the proportions. The foolish pour in first their 
oil, then their vinegar, and leave the rest to 
chance, with results one shudders to remember. 
The two must be mixed together even as they 
are poured over the salad, and here the task but 
begins. For next, they must be mixed with 
the salad. To " fatigue" it the French call this 
special part of the process, and indeed, to cre- 
ate a work of art, you must mix and mix and 
mix until you are fatigued yourself, and your 
tomatoes or potatoes reduced to one-half their 
original bulk. Then will the dressing have 
soaked through and through them, then will 
every mouthful be a special plea for gluttony, 
an eloquent argument for the one vice that 
need not pall with years. 
. One other . ingredient must not be omitted 



Ig6 On Salads 

here, since it is as essential as the oil itself. 
This is the onion — 

Rose among roots, the maiden fair. 
Wine-scented and poetic soul 

of every salad. You may rub with it the bowl, 
you may chop it up fine and sprinkle with it 
the lettuce, as you might sprinkle an omelet 
with herbs. But there, in one form or another, 
it must be. The French have a tendency to 
abuse it; they will cut it in great slices to 
spread between layers of tomatoes or cucum- 
bers. But there is a touch of grossness in this 
device. It is just the soupfon you crave, just the 
.subtle flavour it alone can impart. You do not 
want your salad, when it comes on the table, to 
suggest nothing so much as the stewed steak 
and onions shops in the Strand! The fates 
forbid. 

"What diversities soever there be in herbs, 
all are shuffled up together under the name of 
sallade." And Montaigne wrote in sadness, 
knowing well that there could be no error more 
fatal. Have you ever asked for a salad at the 
greengrocer's, and been offered a collection of 



On Salads igy 

weeds befitting nothing so much as. Betsy 
Prig's capacious pocket? Have you ever, at 
the table of the indifferent, been served with 
the same collection plentifully drenched with 
" salad cream" ? But these are painful memo- 
ries, speedily to be put aside and banished for 
evermore. Some combinations there are of 
herbs or greens or vegetables unspeakably de- 
licious, even in the thought thereof. But it is 
not at haphazard, by an unsympathetic green- 
grocer, they can be made; not in haste, from 
bottles of atrocities, they can be dressed. 
They are the result of conscientious study, of 
consummate art. 

Besides, some varieties there be of flavour 
too delicate to be tampered with : for instance, 
the cabbage lettuce, as the vulgar call it, which 
comes in about Easter time, but which, at the 
cost of a little trouble, can be had all the year 
round. For some reason unknown, your hard- 
hearted greengrocer, half the time, objects to 
it seriously, declares it not to be found from 
end to end of Covent Garden. But let him 
understand that upon his providing it depends 
your custom, and he fetches it — the unprinci- 



198 On Salads 

pled one — fast enough. The ragged outer- 
leaves pulled away, crisp and fresh is the heart, 
a cool green and white harmony not to be 
touched by brutal knife. The leaves must be 
torn apart, gently and lovingly, as the painter 
plays with the colours on his palette. Then, 
thrown into the bowl which already has been 
well rubbed with onion, and slices of hard- 
boiled egg laid upon the top for adornment and 
flavouring alike, at once may the dressing of 
oil and vinegar and salt and pepper be poured 
on, and the process of " fatiguing" begin. You 
need add nothing more, to know, as you eat, 
that life, so long as salads are left to us, isTvell 
worth the living. 

To say this is to differ in a measure from the 
great Alexandre, a misfortune surely to be 
avoided.. To this lettuce he would add herbs 
of every kind; nay, even oysters, or tortoise 
eggs, or anchovies, or olives — in fact, the sub- 
ject is one which has sent his ever delightful 
imagination to work most riotously. But, in 
all humility, must it still be urged that the 
cabbage lettuce is best ungarnished, save, it 
may be, by a touch, of the unrivalled celery or 



On Salads 199 

slices of the adorable tomato — never, if yours 
be the heart of an artist, by the smallest frag- 
ment of the coarse, crude, stupid beetroot. 

The romaine, or cos, however, is none the 
worse for Dumas' suggestions; indeed, it is 
much the better. Its long stiff leaves, as they 
are, may not be "fatigued" with anything ap- 
proaching ease or success. It is to be said — 
with hesitation perhaps, and yet to be said — 
that they make the better salad for being cut 
before they are put into the bowl. As if to 
atone for this unavoidable liberty^ dainty ad- 
ditions may not come amiss: the tender little 
boneless anchovies, fish of almost any and every 
kind — most admirably, salmon and a bit of red 
herring in conjunction — cucumbers, celery, to- 
matoes, radishes — all will blend well and har- 
moniously. Be bold in your experiments, and 
fear nothing. Many failures are a paltry price 
to pay for one perfect dish. 

Of other green salads the name is legion: 
endive, dandelion leaves, chicory, chervil, mus- 
tard and cress, and a hundred and more besides 
before the resources of France — more especially 
the Midi — and Italy be exhausted. And none 



200 On Salads 

may be eaten becomingly without the oil and 
vinegar dressing; all are the pleasanter for the 
soupfon of onion, and the egg, hard-boiled; a 
few gain by more variegated garniture. 

But these minor salads — as they might be 
classed — pale before the glories of the tomato: 
the pomodoro of the Italian, the pomtne d' amour of 
the Provengal — sweet, musical names, that lin- 
ger tenderly on the lips. And, indeed, if the 
tomato were veritably the " love apple" of the 
Scriptures, and, in Adam's proprietorship, the 
olives already yielded oil, the vines vinegar, 
then the tragedy in the Garden of Eden may be 
explained without the aid of commentary. 
Many a man— Esau notably — has sold his birth- 
right for less than a good tomato salad. 

Dante's Inferno were too good for the de- 
praved who prepare it, as if it were a paltry 
pickle, with a dosing of vinegar. It must first 
receive the stimulus of the onion; then its 
dressing must be fortified by the least suspicion 
of mustard — English, French, or German, it 
matters not which — ^and if the pleasure that 
follows does not reconcile you to Paradise lost, 
as well might you live on dry bread and cold 



On Salads 201 

water for the rest of your natural days. The 
joys of the epicure, clearly, are not for you. It 
seems base and sordid to offer for so exquisite 
a delicacy hygienic references. But the world 
is still full of misguided men who prize " die- 
tetic principles" above the delights of gluttony ; 
once assured that from the eating of the tomato 
will come none of the evils " to which flesh is 
erroneously supposed to be heir," they might be 
induced to put tomato salad, made in right 
fashion, to the test. Then must they be con- 
firmed faddists indeed, if they do not learn that 
one eats not merely to digest. 

To the mystical German, the potato first re- 
vealed virtues undreamed of by the blind who 
had thought it but a cheap article of food to 
satisfy hunger, even by the French who had 
carried it to such sublime heights in their pu- 
rees and souffles, their Parisiennes and Lyonnaises. 
Not until it has been allowed to cool, been cut 
in thin slices, been dressed as a salad, were its 
subtlest charms suspected. To the German — 
to that outer barbarian of the mid-day dinner — 
we owe at least this one great debt of gratitude. 
Like none other, does the potato-salad lend 



202 On Salads 

itself to the most fantastic play of fancy. It 
stimulates imagination, it awakens ambition. 
A thousand and one ways there be of preparing 
it, each better than the last. "With celery, with 
carrots, with tomatoes, with radishes, with 
parsley, with cucumber, with every green thing 
that grows — in greatest perfection with okras, 
the vegetable dear to Hungarian and Ameri- 
can, unknown to poor Britons — it combines 
graciously and deliciously, each combination a 
new ecstasy. And, moreover, it is capable of 
endless decoration ; any woman with a grain of 
ingenuity can make of it a thing of beauty, to 
look upon which is to sharpen the dullest appe- 
tite. So decorative are its possibilities, that at 
times it is a struggle to decide between its 
merits as an ornament and its qualities as a 
delicacy. For truth is, it becomes all the more 
palatable if dressed and " fatigued" an hour or 
so before it is eaten, and the oil and vinegar 
given time to soak through every slice and 
fragment. The wise will disdain, for the pur- 
pose, the ordinary potato, but procure instead 
the little, hard "salad potato," which never 
crumbles; it comes usually from Hamburg, 



On Salads 203 

and is to be bought for a trifle in the German 
delicatessen shops of London. 

Poetic in the early spring is the salad of 
"superb asparagus"— pity it should ever be 
eaten hot with drawn butter! — or of artichoke, 
or of cucumber — the latter never fail to sprinkle 
with parsley, touch with onion, and " fatigue" 
a good half hour before serving. Later, the 
French bean, or the scarlet runner should be 
the lyrical element of the feast. And in win- 
ter, when curtains are drawn and lamps lit, 
and fires burn bright, the substantial Sotssons, 
for all its memories of French commercials, is 
not to be despised. But, if your soul aspires to 
more ethereal flights, then create a vegetable 
salad — cauliflower, and peas, and potatoes, and 
beans, and carrots in rhythmical proportions 
and harmonious blending of hues. 



THE SALADS OF SPAIN 

They are still many and delicious as when 
Beckford ate them and was glad, a hundred 
and more years ago. The treasures of the 
Incas have dwindled and disappeared ; the Al- 
hambra has decayed and been restored on its 
high hill-top; the masterpieces of Valasquez 
have been torn from palace walls, to hang in 
convenient rows in public museums ; the great- 
ness of Spain has long been waning. But the 
Spaniard still mixes his salads with the art and 
distinction that have been his for centuries. 
Herein, at least, his genius has not been 
dimmed, nor his success grown less. And so 
long as this remains true, so long will there be 
hope of a new Renaissance in the Iberian pen- 
insula. By a nation's salads may you judge of 
its degree of civilisation ; thus tested, Spain is 
in the van, not the rear, of all European coun- 
tries. 

It is no small achievement to give distinctive 
205 



2o6 The Salads of Spain 

character to national salads, to-day that the 
virtue of vinegar and oil and the infallibility 
of incomparable onion are universally acknowl- 
edged and respected. And yet Spain, in no 
idle spirit of self-puffery, can boast of this 
achievement. She has brought to her imalada 
a new element, not wholly unknown elsewhere 
— in Hungary, for instance — but one which 
only by the Spaniard has been fully appre- 
ciated, constantly introduced, and turned to 
purest profit. This element — ^need it be said? 
— is the pepper, now red, now green. The 
basis of the Spanish salad may be — nay, is — ■ 
the same as in other lands: tomato, cucumber, 
lettuce, beans, potatoes. But to these is added 
pepper — not miserably dried and powdered, but 
fresh and whole, or in generous slices — and be- 
hold I a new combination is created, a new fla- 
vour evolved. And it is a flavour so strong^ 
yet subtle withal, so aromatic and spicy, so 
bizarre and picturesque — dream-inspiring as the 
aroma of green Chartreuse, stimulating as Cog- 
nac of ripe years — that the wonder is its praises 
hitherto have not been more loudly sung, its 
delights more widely cultivated. The trum- 



The Salads of Spain 207 

pet-note struck by the glowing scarlet is fitting 
herald of the rapturous thrills that follow in 
the eating. Not more voluptuous than the 
salad thus adorned were the beauties of the 
harem, who doubtless feasted upon it under the 
cypresses and myrtles of Andalusia. 

The tendency of the Spaniard is ever to har- 
mony, intricate and infinite. Is not his dish of 
dishes his olla cocida ? Is not his favourite course 
of vegetables the fisto? And so likewise with 
his salads: now he may give you tomato just 
touched with pepper, cucumber just enlivened 
by the same stirring presence. But more often 
he.'will present }'bu an arrangement which, in 
its elabbration, may well baffle the first inves- 
tigation of the student. Peppers, as like as not 
of both species, tomatoes, cucumber, onion, 
garlic cut fine as if for a mince of greens— 
"pepper hashj" the American crudely calls an 
arrangement closely akin in motive — ^are min- 
gled together so deftly,, are steeped in vinegar 
ajid oil so. effectually, ;as.,tb seem, not many^in 
or!e,^cbUt #e'.,ohe in many,, the crowning .glory 
of thfe. :glorioiis vegetable world of the South. 
Nxjfclring .in .comnion ;has this delectable- salad' 



2o8 The Salads of Spam 

with the macddoiru, which the Spaniard also 
makes. Peas and carrots, potatoes and toma- 
toes, beans and cauliflowers meet to new pur- 
pose, when peppers, red and ardent, wander 
hither and thither in their midst waging war 
upon insipidity, destroying, as if by fire, the 
tame and the commonplace. Again, lettuce 
untainted by garlic, resisting the slightest sus- 
picion of complexity, may answer for the fool- 
ish foreigner who knows no better. But in 
lettuce prepared for himself the Spaniard spares 
not the fragrant garlic; neither does he omit 
his beloved peppers, while he never rebels, re- 
joicing rather, if occasional slices of cucumber 
and tomatoes lie hid between the cool green 
leaves. 

But fish furnishes him with text for still more 
eloquent flights, still loftier compositions. A 
mayonnaise he can make such as never yet was 
eaten under milder suns and duller skies ; and 
a mayonnaise far from exhausts his all but un- 
limited resources. Sardines he will take, or 
tunny, or any fish that swims, and that, already 
cooked, has been either shut up long weeks in 
protecting tins or left but a few hours to cool. 



The Salads of Spain 209 

Whatever the fish chosen, he places it neatly 
and confidently at the bottom of his dish ; above 
it he lays lettuce leaves and garlic and long 
brilliant slices of scarlet pepper; round about 
it he weaves a garniture of olives and hard- 
boiled eggs that reveal their hearts of gold. 
The unrivalled, if cosmopolitan, sauce of vine- 
gar and oil is poured upon the whole and made 
doubly welcome. But details are varied in 
every fish salad served in Spain; only in its 
perfection does it prove unalterable. 

These, and their hundred offshoots were con- 
ceived in serious moments. But once, in sheer 
levity of spirit and indolence, the gay Andalu- 
sian determined to invent a salad that, to the 
world beyond his snowy Sierras, would seem 
wildest jest, but to himself would answer for 
food and drink, and, because of its simplicity 
and therefore cheapness, save him many a use- 
less hour of gaining his dinner at the sweat of 
his brow. And so, to the strumming of guitars 
and click of castanets, now never heard save in 
books of travel through Andalusia, gaspacho ap- 
peared ; destined to be for ever after the target 
for every travel-writer's wit, the daily fare of» 
14 



2IO The Salads of Spain 

its inventor and his descendants. To the An- 
dalusian gaspacho is as macaroni to the Neapoli- 
tan, bouillabaisse to the Provencal, chops and 
steaks to the Englishman. In hotels, gro- 
tesquely French or pretentiously English 
where butter comes out of tins, and salad is 
garlicless, gaspacho may be but surreptitiously 
concocted for the secret benefit of the house- 
hold. But go to the genuine Andalusian /^^ai/a 
or house, travel in Andalusian boat, or break- 
fast at Andalusian buffet, and ten to one gas- 
pacho figures on the menu. 

To describe it, Gautier must be borrowed 
from. What would you? When the master 
has pronounced upon any given subject, why 
add an inefficient postscript? When a ready- 
made definition, admirably rendered, is at your 
command, why be at the pains of making a new 
one for yourself? Never be guilty of any work 
when others may do it for you, is surely the one 
and only golden rule of life. Listen, then, to 
the considerate Gautier: "Gaspacho deserves a 
description to itself, and so we shall give here 
the recipe which would have made the late 
Brillat-Savarin's hair stand on end. You pour 



The Salads of Spain 211 

water into a soup tureen, to this water you add 
vinegar" (why omit the oil, you brilliant but 
not always reliable poet?), "shreds of garlic, 
onions cut in quarters, slices of cucumber, some 
pieces of pepper, a pinch of salt ; then you add 
bits of bread, which are left to soak in this 
agreeable mess, and you serve cold." It should 
be further explained that, in the season, toma- 
toes are almost invariably introduced, that they 
and all the greens are chopped up very fine, 
and that the whole has the consistency of a 
julienne supplied with an unusually lavish quan- 
tity of vegetables. It is eaten with a spoon 
from a soup plate, though on the menu it appears 
as a course just before the sweets. This ex- 
planation made, listen again to Gautier, who 
writes in frivolous mood. " With us, dogs but 
tolerably well bred would refuse to compromise 
their noses in such a mixture. It is the favour- 
ite dish of the Andalusians, and the prettiest 
women, without fear, swallow at evening great 
spoonfuls of this infernal soup. Gaspacho is 
held to be most refreshing, an opinion which 
to us seems a trifle daring, and yet, extraordi- 
nary as it may be found at the first taste, you 



212 The Salads of Spain 

finish by accustoming yourself to it, and even 
liking it." 

He was right. Gaspacho has its good points: 
it is pleasant to the taste, piquant in its very 
absurdity; it is refreshing, better than richly- 
spiced sauces when the sun shines hot at mid- 
day. Andalusians have not been labouring 
under a delusion these many years. The pep- 
per is a stimulant; vinegar, oil, and water 
unite in a drink more cooling and thirst- 
quenching than abominable red wine of Valde- 
peSas. Would you be luxurious, would you 
have your gaspacho differ somewhat from the 
poor man's, drop in a lump of ice, and double 
will be your pleasure in the eating. 

Like all good things gaspacho has received 
that sincerest form of flattery, imitation; and, 
what is more gratifying, received it at home. 
Lettuce, cut in tiny pieces, is set floating in a 
large bowl of water, vinegar, and oil, well 
seasoned with salt. Refreshing this also is 
claimed to be ; though so strange a sight is it 
to the uninitiated that a prim schoolma'am, 
strayed from Miss Wilkins's stories into Anda- 
lusia, has been seen to throw, up hands of won- 



The Salads of Spain 213 

der, and heard to declare that that salad would 
find a niche in her diary, to which, as a rule, 
she confided nothing less precious than her 
thoughts. Happy Spain, to have so conquered! 
What is Granada to the possession of so chaste 
a tribute? 



THE STIRRING SAVOURY 

First impressions have their value: they may 
not be dismissed in flippancy of spirit. But 
for this reason must last impressions be held 
things of nought, not worthy the considera- 
tion of ambitious or intelligeht man? First 
impressions at times are washed away by the 
rich, fast stream of after-events, even as the 
first on a slate disappear under the obliterating 
sponge; last impressions remain to bear testi- 
mony after the more tangible facts have passed 
into the ewigkeit. Else, where the use of the 
ballade's envoy, of the final sweet or stirring 
scene as the curtain falls upon the play? 

It is the same with all the arts — with love, 
too, for that matter, were there but space to 
prove it. Love, however, dwindles in impor- 
tance when there is question of dinner or break- 
fast. Life consists of eating and drinking, as 
greater philosophers than Sir Andrew Ague- 
cheek have learned to their infinite delight, 
215 



2i6 The Stirring Savoury 

have preached to the solace of others. There- 
fore, so order your life that the last impres- 
sions of your eating and drinking may be more 
joyful, more beautiful than the first; then, and 
only then, will you have solved that problem of 
problems which, since the world began, has set 
many a Galahad upon long and weary quest. 
It behoves you to see that the feast, which 
opened with ecstasy, does not close with plati- 
tude, and thus cover you with shame and con- 
fusion. A paltry amateur, a clumsy bungler, 
is he who squanders all his talent upon the 
soup, and leaves the savoury to take care of 
itself. Be warned in time I 

The patriotic claim the savoury as England's 
invention. Their patriotism is pretty and 
pleasing; moreover, it is not without a glim- 
mering of truth. For to England belongs the 
glorious discovery that the dinner which ends 
with a savoury ends with rapture that passeth 
human understanding! The thing itself has its 
near of kin, its ancestors, as one might say. 
Caviar, olives, lax, anchovies, herrings' roe, 
sardines, and as many more of the large and 
noble family — do not these appear as antipasti 



The Stirring Savoury 217 

in Italy? In Russia and Scandinavia do they 
not, spread symmetrically on side table, serve 
the purpose of America's cocktail? And among 
the palms, as among the pines, coldness is held 
to be an essential quality in them. Hot from 
the ardent oven, the Parisian welcomes their 
presence between the soup and the fish, and 
many are the enthusiasts who declare this to be 
the one and only time for their discreet appear- 
ance upon the menu. Reason is in the plea: 
none but the narrow-minded would condemn it 
untested and untried. He who prizes change, 
who rebels even against the monotony of the 
perfect, may now and again follow this fashion 
so gaily applauded by gourmets of distinction. 
But, remembering the much that depends upon 
last impressions, the wise will reserve his sa- 
voury to make therewith a fair, brave ending. 

There still walk upon this brutal earth poor 
heedless women who, in the innocence of their 
hearts, believe that the one destiny of cheese is 
to lie, cut up in little pieces, in a three-cornered 
dish, which it shares with misplaced biscuits 
and well-meaning rolls of butter, and, it may 
be, chilling celery. But cheese, which in many 



2i8 The Stirring Savoury 

ways has achieved such marvels, may be wrought 
into savouries beyond compare. As souffli, either 
au Gruyire or au Parmesan, it becomes light and 
dainty as the poet's lyric, and surely should be 
served only on porcelain of the finest. It is 
simple to say how the miracle is worked: a 
well-heated oven, a proper saucepan, butter, 
water, pepper, salt and sugar in becoming pro- 
portions, the yolks of eggs and grated Parme- 
san, the whites of the eggs added, as if an 
afterthought; and twenty-five minutes in the 
expectant oven will do the rest. But was ever 
lyric turned out by rule and measure? Even 
the inspired artist has been known to fail with 
his souffle. Here, indeed, is a miracle, best 
entrusted td-none but the genius. 

Canape au Parmesan has pretensions which the 
result justifies. On the bread, fried as golden 
as the haloes of Fra Angelico's angels, the 
grated Parmesan, mingled with salt and pepper, 
is spread. A Dutch oven yields temporary 
asylum until the cheese be melted, when, 
quicker than thought, the canapis are set upon a 
pretty dish and served to happy mortals. Ram- 
aquitis of cheese, in cases or out, can boast of 



The Stirring Savoury 2 1 9 

charms the most seductive. Nor in gotigire or 
beignet or bouchee will Parmesan betray confi- 
dence. Again, in failles, or straws, on fire with 
cayenne, and tied with fluttering rihbons into 
enticing bunches, this happy child of the South 
reveals new powers of seduction. So long as 
there is cheese to command, the most fastidious 
need not wander far in search of savouries. 

The anchovy may be made a dangerous rival 
to Parmesan. Whole, or in paste, it yields en- 
chanting harmonies, burning and fervent as 
lover's prayer. Let your choice fall upon the 
boneless anchovies of France, if you would aim 
at the maximum of pleasure and the minimum 
of labour. True it is that labour in the kitchen 
is ever a joy; but, expended upon one creation 
when it might be divided among many, must 
not sacrifice of variety in sensation be the price 
paid? Fried after the fashion of whitebait, 
sprinkled with paprika, and refreshed with 
lemon juice, anchovies become quite irresist- 
ible as Orlys cPanchois. Prepared in cases, like 
Parmesan, they are proof against criticism as 
tartelettes. Now figuring z.% petites boucMes, now 
as rissolettes, they fail not to awaken new and 



220 The Stirring Savoury 

delicious emotions. They simply clamour for 
certain exquisite combinations, to-day with 
hard-boiled &g% passed through a sieve, to- 
morrow with olives from sunny Provence ; thin 
brown bread and butter, or toast, the crisp 
foundation. But rarely do they go masquerad- 
ing so riotously as in the garb of croHtes d'an- 
chois : first, the golden croMon, then a slice of 
tomato, then a slice of cucumber, then a layer 
of caviar, then a layer of anchovies scarlet with 
paprika and garnished with leaves of chervil; 
and behold! you have a pyramid more memo- 
rable far than any raised on Egyptian sands — 
a pyramid that you need not travel silly miles 
to see : it is yours, any day and any hour, for 
the ordering. 

Lax laid lightly on toast is a pale rose tri- 
umph. Olives farcies — ^caper and anchovy chief 
ingredients of the farce — come like a flaming 
ray of southern sunlight. Haddock is smoked 
in the land across the border solely that it may 
ravish the elect in its grandest phase as croustades 
de merluche fumde. By the shores of the blue 
Mediterranean, sardines are packed in tins that 
the delicate diner of the far north may know 



The Stirring Savoury 221 

pleasure's crown of pleasure in canape de sardines 
diabUes. Caviar craves no more elaborate seas- 
oning than lemon juice and. paprika can give; 
herring roe sighs for devilled biscuit as friendly 
resting-place. Shrimp and lobster vie with 
one another for the honour either bouchee or 
canape bestows. And ham and tongue pray 
eagerly to be grated and transformed into be- 
wildering croHtes. The ever-willing mushroom 
refuses to be outsped in the blessed contest, but 
murmurs audibly, " Au gratin I am adorable ;" 
while the egg whispers, " Stuff me, and the 
roses and raptures are yours!" 

But what would the art of eating be without 
the egg? In two strange and striking combina- 
tions it carries the savoury to the topmost 
rung in the ladder of gastronomy. Its union 
with inexhaustible anchovy and Bombay duck 
has for issue "Bombay toast," the very name 
whereof has brought new hope to staid dons 
and earnest scholars. Pledged to anchovies 
once more and butter and cream — Mormon-like 
in its choice of many mates — it offers as result 
" Scotch woodcock," a challenge to fill high the 
glass with Claret red and rare. 



222 The Stirring Savoury 

Endless is the stimulating list. For cannot 
the humble bloater be pressed into service, and 
the modest cod? Do not many more vegetables 
than spinach, that plays so strong a part in 
'Raviole h la Genoese, answer promptly when 
called upon for aid? And what of the gher- 
kin? What of the almond — the almond min- 
gled with caviar and cayenne? And what of 
this, that, and the other, and ingenious com- 
binations by the score? Be enterprising! Be 
original ! And success awaits you. 



INDISPENSABLE CHEESE 

With bread and cheese and kisses for daily 
fare, life is held to be perfect by the poet. But 
love may grow bitter before cheese loses its 
savour., Therefore the wise, who value the 
pleasures of the table above tender dalliance, 
put their faith in strong Limburger or fragrant 
Brie, rather than in empty kisses. If only this 
lesson of wisdom could be mastered by all men 
and women, how much less cruel life might be ! 
Nor is cheese without its poetry to comfort 
the hater of pure prose. Once the "glory of 
fair Sicily," there must ever linger about it 
sweet echoes of Sicilian song sung under the 
wild olives and beneath the elms, where Theo- 
critus "watched the visionary flocks." Did not 
" a great white cream-cheese" buy that won- 
drous bowl — the " miracle of varied work"-^for 
which Thyrsis sang the pastoral song? Cheese- 
fed were the shepherds who piped in the shadow 

of the ilex tree, ,while( the calves were dancing 
223 



224 Indispensable Cheese 

in the soft green grass; cheese-scented was the 
breath of the fair maidens and beautiful youths 
they loved. Is there a woman with soul so 
dead, who, when in a little country inn fresh 
cheese is laid before her, cannot fancy that she 
sees the goats and kids among the tamarisks of 
the sun-kissed Sicilian.JiiUs, and hears the per- 
fect voices of Daphnis and Menalcas, the two 
herdsmen "skilled in song"? 

Perhaps because cheese has been relegated 
to the last course at midday breakfast, or at 
dinner, has it lost much of its charm for the 
heedless. But who, .indeed, playing with peach 
or orange at dessert, knows the fruit's triie fla- 
vour as well as he who plucks it fresh from the 
tree while wandering 1:hrough the peach or- 
chards of Delaware or the orange groves of 
Florida? Take a long walk over the moors 
and through the heather, or cycle for hours 
along winding lanes, and then, at noon, eat a 
lunch of bread and cheese, and — even without 
the kisses — you will find in the frugal fare a 
godlike banquet. Time was when bits cut 
from the huge carcase of a well-battered Ched- 
dar, washed down with foaming shandygaff, 



Indispensable Cheese 225 

seemed more delicious far than the choicest 
dishes at the Lap6rotise or Voisin's. Memory 
journeys back with joy to the fragrant, tough, 
little goat's cheese, with flask of Chianti, set 
out upon the rough wooden table in front of 
some wayside vine-trellised albergo, while travel- 
ler and cycle rested at the hour when shade is 
most pleasant to men. How many a tramp, 
through the valleys and over the passes of Swit- 
zerland, has been made the easier by the sub- 
stantial slice of good Gruy^re and the cup of 
wine well cooled in near snow-drifts! How 
many rides awheel through the pleasant land 
of France have been the swifter for the Ca- 
membert and roll devoured by the way ! 

Places and hours there are when cheese is 
best. But seldom is it wholly unwelcome. 
From dinner, whatever may then be its limita- 
tions, some think it must never be omitted. 
Remember, they say, as well a woman with but 
one eye as a last course without cheese. But 
see that you show sympathy and discretion in 
selecting the variety most in harmony with 
your menu, or else the epicure's labours will in- 
deed be lost. It is not enough to visit the 
15 



226 Indispensable Cheese 

cheesemonger's, and to accept any and every 
kind offered. The matter is one requiring time 
and thought and long experience. You must 
understand the possibilities of each cheese 
chosen, you must bear in mind the special re- 
quirements of each meal prepared. Preposter- 
ous it would be truly to serve the mild- flavoured 
plebeian species from Canada or America after 
a carefully ordered dinner at Verrey's; waste- 
ful, to use adorable Port Salut or aromatic 
Rocquefort for a pudding or a Welsh rabbit. 

Study gastronomic proprieties, cultivate your 
imaginatiofa, and as the days follow each other 
fewer will be your mistakes. Heavy Stilton 
and nutritious Cheddar, you will know, belong 
by right to undisguised joint and irrepressible 
greens: to a "good old-fashioned English din- 
ner" they prove becoming accompaniments. 
Excellent they are, after their fashion, to be 
honoured and respected ; but something of the 
seriousness and the stolidity of their native 
land has entered into them, and to gayer, more 
frivolous moods they are as unsuited as a ser- 
mon to a ballroom. If, however, to the joint 
you cling with tenacity, and solemn Stilton be 



Indispensable Cheese 227 

the cheese of your election, do not fail to ripen 
it with port of the finest vintage or good old 
ale gently poured into holes, here and there 
scooped out for the purpose, and then filled 
once more with the cheese itself. 

Strength, fierce in perfume and flavour alike, 
lies in Limburger, but it is strength which de- 
mands not beef or mutton, but wurst and sauer- 
kraut. Take it not home with you, unless you 
would place a highly-scented barrier between 
yourself and your friends; but, in deep thank- 
fulness of heart, eat it after you have lunched 
well and heartily in the Vienna Cafe, which 
overlooks Leicester Square, or in that other 
which commands Mudie's and Oxford Street. 
And thanks will be deepened a hundredfold if, 
while eating, you call for a long refreshing 
draught of Munich beer. 

Sweet, redolent of herbs, are gracious Gor- 
gonzola, of which such ribald tales are told by 
the irreverent, and royal Rocquefort, in its sil- 
ver wrapping; eaten after "the perfect din- 
ner," each has merit immeasurable — merit 
heightened by a glass of Beaune or Chamber- 
tin. Then, too, is the hour for Port Salut, 



2 28 Indispensable Cheese 

with its soothing suggestion of monastic peace 
and contentment, alone a safeguard against 
indigestion and other unspeakable horrors; if 
you respect your appetite, seek it nowhere save 
in the German delicatessen shop, but there order 
it with an easy conscience and confidence in 
the white-coated, white-aproned ministering 
spirit at the counter. Thither also turn for 
good Camembert ; but, as you hope for pleasure 
in the eating, be not too ready to accept the 
first box offered: test the cheese within with 
sensitive finger, and value it according to its 
softness, for an unripe Camembert, that crum- 
bles at touch of the knife, is deadlier far than 
all the seven deadly sins. It should be soft 
and flowing almost as languid Fromage de Brie, 
indolent and melting on its couch of straw. 
Beyond all cheese, Gruybre calls for study and 
reflection, so many are the shams, by an un- 
scrupulous market furnished, in its place. As 
palely yellow as a Liberty scarf, as riddled 
with holes as cellular cotton, it should be sweet 
as Port Salut, and yet with a reserve of strength 
that makes it the rival of Limburger. 
But blessed among cheeses, a romance in 



Indispensable Cheese 229 

itself, is the creamy, subtle little Suisse, delect- 
able as Dumas calls it. Soft and sweet as the 
breath of spring, it belongs to the season of 
lilacs and love. Its name evokes a vision of 
Paris, radiant in the Maytime, the long avenues 
and boulevards all white and pink with blos- 
soming horse-chestnuts, the air heavy laden 
with the fragrance of flowers; a vision of the 
accustomed corner in the old restaurant looking 
out upon the Seine, and of the paternal waiter 
bearing the fresh Suisse on dainty green leaf. 
Life holds few such thrilling interludes! You 
may eat it with salt, and think yourself old and 
wise; but why not be true to the spirit of 
spring? Why not let yourself go a little, and, 
eating your Suisse with sugar, be young and 
foolish and unreasonably happy again? 

Authorities there be who rank the Broccio of 
Corsica above the Suisse, and credit it with de- 
licious freshness and Virgilian flavour. To 
taste it among its wild hills, then, would be 
well worth the long journey to the island in the 
Medeiterranean. In the meantime, however, 
none need quarrel with Suisse. Hardly a coun- 
try or district in the world really that has not 



230 Indispensable Cheese 

its own special cheese; he who would discover 
them all and catalogue them must needs write 
a treatise on geography. 

But to eat cheese in its many varieties, with 
butter or salt or sugar, as the case may be, and 
to think its mission thus fulfilled, would be to 
under-estimate its inexhaustible resources. In- 
numerable are the masterpieces the culinary 
artist will make of it. In an omelet you would 
pronounce it unsurpassable, so long as kind 
fate did not set before you the consummate 
Fondue. As a pudding you would declare it 
not to be approached, if sometimes crisp cheese 
straws were not served with dinner's last course. 
On an ocean voyage, Welsh-rabbit late at night 
will seem to you the marvel of marvels; on a 
railway journey a cheese sandwich at noon you 
will think still more miraculous — but let the 
sandwich be made of brown bread, and mix 
butter and mustard and anchovies with the 
cheese. The wonders that may be worked with 
Parmesan alone — whether in conjunction with 
macaroni, or soup, or cauliflower, or many a 
dish beside — would be eloquent text for a new 
chapter. 



A STUDY IN GREEN AND RED 

You may search from end to end of the vast 
Louvre; you may wander from room to room 
in England's National Gallery; you may travel 
to the Pitti, to the Ryks Museum, to the Prado ; 
and no richer, more stirring arrangement of 
colour will you find than in that corner of your 
kitchen garden where, June's strawberries grow 
ripe. From under the green of broad leaves 
the red fruit looks out and up to the sun in 
splendour unsurpassed by paint upon canvas. 
And the country, with lavish prodigality born 
of great plenty, takes pity upon the drear, drab 
town, and, packing this glory of colour in bas- 
kets and crates, despatches it to adorn green- 
grocer's window and coster monger's cart. 
" Strawberries all ripe, sixpence a pound," is 
the itinerant sign which now sends a thrill 
through Fleet Street and brings joy to the 
Strand. 

To modern weakling the strawberry is strong 
i3i 



232 A Study in Green and Red 

with the strength of classical approval. The 
Greek loved it; the Latin vied with him in the 
ardour of his affection. Poets sang its wonders 
and immortalised its charms. Its perfume was 
sweet in the nostrils of Virgil ; its flavour en- 
raptured the palate of Ovid; and at banquets 
under the shadow of the Acropolis and on sunny 
Pincian Hill, the strawberry, cultivated and 
wild, held place of honour among the dear 
fruits of the earth. 

Nor did it disappear before the barbarian's 
inroads. Europe might be laid waste ; beauty 
and learning and art might be aliens in the 
land that was once their home; human enjoy- 
ment might centre upon a millennium to come 
rather than upon delights already warm within 
men's grasp. But still the strawberry sur- 
vived. Life grew ugly and rue and barren. 
But from -under broad leaves the little red fruit 
still looked out and np to the sun; and, by 
loveliness of colour and form, of flavour and 
scent, proved one of the chief factors in re- 
claiming man from barbarism, in leading him 
gently along the high road to civilisation and 
the joy of life. 



A Study in Green and Red 233 

Respect for its exquisite perfection was ever 
deep and heartfelt. Gooseberries might be 
turned to wine and figure as fools; raspberries 
and currants might be imprisoned within stodgy 
puddings. But the strawberry, giver of health, 
creator of pleasure, seldom was submitted to 
desecration by fire. As it ripened, thus was it 
eaten: cool, scarlet, and adorable. At times 
when, according to the shifting of the seasons, 
its presence no longer made glad the hearts of 
its lovers, desire invented a substitute. As the 
deserted swain takes what cold comfort he can 
from the portrait of his mistress, so the faithful 
stayed themselves with the strawberry's coun- 
terfeit. And thus was it made: "Take the 
paste of Massepain, and roul it in your hands 
in form of a Strawberry, then wet it in the 
juice of Barberries or red Gooseberries, turn 
them about in this juice pretty hard, then take 
them out and put them into a dish and dry 
them before a fire, then wet them again for 
three or four times together in the same juice, 
and they will seem like perfect Strawberries." 
Master Cook Giles Rose is the authority, and 
none knew better. 



2 34 -^ Study in Green and Red 

If^ in moment of folly, in an effort to escape 
monotony, however sweet, the strawberry was 
robbed of its freshness, it was that it might be 
enclosed in a tart. Then — how account for 
man's inconsistency? — it was so disguised, so 
modified by this, that, or the other companion 
in misery, that it seemed less a strawberry 
than ever Master Rose's ingenious counterfeit. 
And, in witness thereof, read Robert May, the 
Accomplished Cook, his recipe: "Wash the 
strawberries and put them into the tart; season 
them with cinnamon, ginger, and a little red 
wine, then put on the sugar, bake it half an 
hour, ice it, scrape on sugar, and serve it." A 
pretty mess, in truth, and yet, for sentiment's 
sake, worth repetition in this degenerate latter 
day. Queen Anne preserved the tradition of her 
Stuart forefathers, and in " The Queen's Royal 
Cooker," a little book graced by the Royal por- 
trait, Robert May's tart reappears, cinnamon, 
ginger, and all. So it was handed down from 
generation to generation, cropping up here and 
there with mild persistency, and now at last, 
after long career of unpopularity, receiving 
distinction anew. 



A Study in Green and Red 235 

One tart in a season, as tribute to the past, 
will suffice. It were a shame to defile the deli- 
cate fruit in more unstinted quantities. Re- 
serve it rather for dessert, that in fragile 
porcelain dish or frail glass bowl it may lose 
nothing of the fragrance and crispness and 
glow of colour that distinguished it as it lay 
upon the brown earth under cool green shelter. 
To let it retain unto the very last its little green 
stem is to lend to dinner or breakfast table the 
same stirring, splendid harmony that lit up, as 
with a flame, the kitchen garden's memorable 
corner. But if with cream the fruit is to be 
eaten, then comfort and elegance insist upon 
green stem's removal before ever the bowl be 
filled or the dish receive its dainty burden. 

At early " little breakfast" of coffee and rolls, 
or tea and toast, as you will, what more deli- 
cious, what fresher beginning to the day's heat 
and struggles, then the plate of strawberries 
newly picked from their bed? Banish cream 
and sugar from this initiative meal. At the 
dawn of daily duty and pleasure, food should 
be light and airy and unsubstantial. Then the 
stem, clinging fast to the fruit's luscious flesh, 



236 A Study in Green and Red 

is surely in place. Half the delight is in pluck- 
ing the berry from the plate as if from the bush. 

After midday breakfast, after evening din- 
ner, however, it is another matter. Cream 
now is in order; cream, thick and sweet and 
pure, covering the departing strawberry with a 
white pall, as loving and tender as the snow 
that protects desolate pastures and defenceless 
slopes from winter's icy, inexorable fingers. 
Sprinkle sugar with the cream, as flowers 
might be strewn before the altars of Dionysius 
and Demeter. 

Cream may, for time being, seem wholly 
without rivals as the strawberry's mate, the 
two joined together by a bond that no man 
would dare put asunder. But the strawberry 
has been proven fickle in its loves — a very Cres- 
sida among fruits. For to Kirsch it offers ec- 
static welcome, while Champagne meets with 
no less riotous greeting. To Cognac it will 
dispense its favours with easy graciousness, 
and from the hot embrace of Maraschino it 
makes no endeavour to escape. Now, it may 
seem as simple and guileless as Chloe, and 
again as wily and well-versed as Egypt's far- 



A Study in Green and Red 237 

famed Queen. But with the results of its sev- 
eral unions who will dare find fault? In each 
it reveals new, unsuspecting qualities, subtle 
and ravishing. On pretty, white-draped tea- 
table, rose-embowered, carnation-scented, the 
strawberry figures to fairest advantage when 
Champagne holds it in thrall; in this hour and 
bower cream would savour of undue heaviness, 
would reveal itself all too substantial and pal- 
pable a lover. Again, when elaborate dinner 
draws to an end, and dessert follows upon long 
procession of soup and fish and entries and roasts 
and vegetables and salads and poultry and 
sweets and savouries, and who knows what — 
then the strawberry becomes most irresistible 
upon yielding itself, a willing victim, to the 
bold demands of Kirsch. A macedoine of Kirsch- 
drowned strawberries, iced to a point, is a dish 
for which gods might languish without shame. 
She who loves justice never fears to tell the 
whole truth and nothing but the truth. To 
cook the strawberry is to rob it of its sweetest 
bloom and freshness. But there have been 
others to think otherwise, as it must in fairness 
be added. To the American, strawberry short- 



238 A Study in Green and Red 

cake represents one of the summits of earthly 
bliss. In ices, many will see the little fruit 
buried without a pang of regret; and the de- 
vice has its merits. As syrup, distended with 
soda-water and ice-cream, the conservative Lon- 
doner may now drink it at Fuller's. In the 
flat, open, national tart, the Frenchman places 
it, and congratulates himself upon the work of 
art which is the outcome. Or, accepting Gouf]E6 
as master, he will soar, one day, to the extra- 
ordinary heights of coupe en tiougat garnie de 
/raises, and find a flamboyant colour-print to 
serve as guide ; the next he will descend to the 
mere homeliness of biegnets de /raises j and, as 
he waxes more adventurous, he will produce 
bouMes de dame, ox pain ci la duchesse, madeleines en 
surprise or pro/iteroles, each and all with the 
strawberry for motive. The spirit of enter- 
prise is to be commended, and not one of 
Gouff^'s list but will repay the student in 
wealth of experience gained. The lover, how- 
ever, finds it not always easy to remember the 
student within him, and if joy in the eating be 
his chief ambition, he will be constant to the 
fresh fruit ever. 



A MESSAGE FROM THE 
SOUTH 

What know we of the orange in our barbar- 
ous North? To us it is an alien, a makeshift, 
that answers well when, our own harvests over, 
winter, sterile and gloomy, settles upon the 
land. But in the joyous South all the year 
round it ripens, its golden liquid a solace when 
heat and dust parch the throat, as when winds 
from the frozen North blow with unwonted 
cold. The tree that bears it is as eager to pro- 
duce as the mothers of Israel, and, in its haste 
and impatience, often it whitens its branches 
with blossoms while still they glow with fruit, 
even as Beckford long since saw them in the 
groves of Naples. 

Bright, rich colour the costermonger's bar- 
row, piled high with oranges from distant 
Southern shores, gives to London's dingy 
streets; and not a greengrocer's window but 
239 



240 A Message from the South 

takes on new beauty and resplendence when 
decorated by the brilliant heaps. But mere- 
tricious seems the loveliness of the orange here, 
when once it has been seen hanging from 
heavy-laden boughs, gleaming between cool 
dark leaves in its own home, whether on Gua- 
dalquivir's banks or Naples' bay, whether in 
western Florida or eastern Jaffa. What has a 
fruit that languishes in the garden of Lindajara 
and basks in Amalfi's sunshine, to do with Lon- 
don costermongers and fog-drenched shops? 

Wearied and jaded by the long journey, dis- 
heartened by the injustice done to it when 
plucked in its young, green immaturity, it 
grows sour and bitter by the way, until, when 
it comes to the country of its exile, but a faint, 
feeble suggestion of its original flavour re- 
mains. With us, for instance, does not the 
orange of Valencia mean a little, thin-skinned, 
acid, miserable fruit, only endurable when 
smothered in sugar or drowned in Cognac? 
But eaten in Valencia, what is it then and 
there> Large and ample are its seductive 
proportions; its skin, deeply, gloriously gold- 
en, forswears all meagreness, ihough never 



A Message from the South 241 

too thick to shut out the mellowing sunshine; 
its juice flows in splendid streams as if to vie 
with the Sierra's quenchless springs; and the 
fruit is soft and sweet as the sweet, soft South- 
ern maidens whose white teeth meet and gleam 
in its pulp of pure, uncontaminated gold. A 
fruit this for romance — a fruit for the Houris 
of Paradise ; not to be peddled about in brutal 
barrows among feather-bearing 'Arriets. 

In the South, it were a crime not to eat this 
fruit, created for the immortals, just as God 
made it. Sugar could be added but to its dis; 
honour; the pots and pans of the sacrilegious 
cook would be desecration unspeakable. Feast 
then, upon its natural charms, and as the hot 
Southern breeze brings to you the scent of 
strange Southern blossoms, and the sky stretches 
blindingly blue above, and <9«^ sits at your side 
feasting in silent sympathy, fancy yourself, if 
you will, the new Adam — or Eve — for whom 
the flaming swords have been lowered, and the 
long-closed gates of the Garden of Eden thrown 
wide open. 

But in the North, banish romance, banish 

imagination ; bring to the study of the orange 
16 



242 A Message from the South 

the prose of necessity, and realism of the ear- 
nest student. And sometimes, from prose — 
who knows? — poetry may spring ; from realism 
will be evolved wild dreaming. 

If the orange be from Jaffa, or " hail" from 
Florida, and care bestowed upon it during its 
long voyaging, then will it need no Northern 
artifice to enhance the pleasure in its power to 
give. True that something — much, indeed — it 
will have lost ; but something of its Southern, 
spicy, subtle sweetness still survives — of the 
Orient's glamour, of the mystery of the West- 
ern wilderness of flower and fruit. Eat it, 
therefore, as it is, unadorned, unspoiled. Tear 
away tenderly the covering that cleaves to it so 
closely; tear the fruit apart with intelligent 
fingers ; to cut it is to sacrifice its cooling juice 
to inanimate china, and to deprive yourself of 
the first freshness of its charms. 

When, however, as generally — to our sorrow, 
be it said — the orange arrives a parody of itself, 
it were better to join it to one of its several 
dearest affinities. In well-selected company, it 
may recover the shadow, and more, of the 
splendour it elsewhere enjoys in solitary state. 



A Message from the South 243 

Thus disguised, it may wander from dessert to 
the course of sweets, and by so wandering save 
the resourceless from the monotony of rice and 
rizine, batter and bread-and-butter puddings, 
whose fitting realm is the nursery, and from an 
eternity of tarts which do not, like a good de- 
sign, gain by repetition. In cocoanut, the 
orange recognises a fellow exile, and the two, 
coming together, yield a new flavour, a new 
delight. For this purpose, the orange must be 
cut that the juice may flow, and if in symmet- 
rical rounds, the effect will be more satisfying 
to the critical. Let the slices be laid at once 
in the bowl destined to hold them at the mo- 
ment of serving, that not a drop of juice may 
escape, and arrange them so that over every 
layer of orange reposes a layer of sugar. Then 
taking the cocoanut that has been well drained, 
grate it as fine as patience will allow ; under it 
bury the orange until the gold is all concealed, 
and the dish looks white and light and soft as 
the driven snow. No harm will be done, but, 
on the contrary, much good, by preparing some 
hours before dinner. It is a pretty conceit; 
half unwillingly the spoon disturbs this sum- 



244 -^ Message from the South 

mery snow-field. But well that it does, for the 
combination pleases the palate no less than the 
eye. The orange summons forth the most ex- 
cellent qualities of the cocoanut ; the cocoanut 
suppresses the acidity and crudeness of the 
expatriated orange. 

With sugar alone, the orange — of this sec- 
ondary order be it remembered— xomes not 
amiss, when the soul yearns for placidness and 
peace. If more stirring sensations be craved, 
baste the cut-up oranges and sugar with Cog- 
nac, and eat to your own edification. Again 
prepare some hours before serving, and be not 
stingy with the Cognac; keep basting con- 
stantly; and be certain that if the result please 
you not, the fault lies not with the fruit and 
spirits, both exultant in the unexpected union. 

The conservative, unused to such devices, 
envelop oranges in soulless fritters and im- 
prison them in stodgy puddings. Beware their 
example ! One followed, there is no telling the 
depths of plodding imbecility to which you may 
be plunged. Not for the frying-pan or the 
pudding-bowl was the golden fruit predestined. 
Better eat no sweets whatever than thus de- 



A Message from the South 245 

grade the orange and reveal our own short- 
comings. 

Who will deny that in the world's great 
drinks the orange has played its part with 
much distinction? In bitters it is supreme, if 
gin in due proportions be added. And where 
would mankind be by now, had the orange- 
evolved liqueurs remained undiscovered? How 
many happy after-dinner hours would never 
have been ! How insipid the flavour of Claret 
and Champagne-cup ! Even temperance drinks 
may be endured when orange is their basis. 
Go to Madrid or Granada, drink beb'.da helada de 
naranja, and confess that in Spain the teetotal- 
lers, if any such exist, have their compensa- 
tion. K pur^e neigeuse, une esplce de glace liquide, 
Gautier described it in a moment of expansion; 
and, when art is in question, what Gautier has 
praised who would revile? With the Spanish 
bebida de naranja, the American orange water 
ice may dispute the palm. 

In humbler incarnation it appears as marma- 
lade, without which the well-regulated house- 
hold can do as little as without sapolio or 
Reckitt's blue. Who throughout the British 



246 A Message from the South 

Isles does not know the name of Keiller? 
Bread and butter might better go than this 
most British of British institutions, the coun- 
try's stay and support in time of peace, its bul- 
wark when war drives Tommy Atkins into 
action. Thus has the North turned the South 
to its own everyday uses, and the fruit of poets 
passes into the food of millions. 

In fruit salad, orange should be given a lead- 
ing and conspicuous role, the aromatic little 
Tangerine competing gaily and guilelessly with 
the ordinary orange of commerce. There is 
scarce another fruit that grows with which it 
does not assimilate,- with which it does not 
mingle, to the infinite advantage of the ardent 
gourmet. This, none knows better than the 
Spaniard, slandered sorel}' when reported a 
barbarian at table. If some of his refinements 
we could but imitate, artists truly we might be 
considered. He it is who first thought to pour 
upon his strawberries, not thick cream, but the 
delicate juice of the orange freshly cut. Here 
is a combination beyond compare ; and is there 
not many another that might be tested as 
profitably? Orange and apricot, orange and 



A Message from the South 247 

plum, orange and peach. Experiment; for 
even where failure follows, will not a new sen- 
sation have been secured? The failure need 
never be repeated. But to each new .success 
will be awarded life eternal. 



ENCHANTING COFFEE 

A PERFECTLY wisc man is he who is fully expert 
and skilful in the true use of sensualities, as in 
all other duties belonging to life. In the 
household where wisdom rules, dinner, from 
savoury hors d'muvre to aromatic coffee, will be 
without reproach — or suspicion. The foolish 
devote their powers to this course or that, and 
in one supreme but ill-advised endeavour ex- 
haust their every resource. Invention carries 
them no further than the soul; even discreet 
imitation cannot pilot them beyond the entrie. 
With each succeeding dish their folly becomes 
more obvious, until it culminates in the coffee, 
which, instead of the divine elixir it should be, 
proves but a vile, degrading concoction of chic- 
ory. Here is the chief among gastronomic 
tests ; the hostess who knows not how to pre- 
pare a cup of coffee that will bring new light to 
her guests' eyes, new gaiety to their talk, is 
not worthy to receive them; the guest, who 
249 



250 Enchanting Coffee 

does not know good coffee when it is set before 
him deserves to be cast into outer darkness and 
fed for evermore upon brimstone and treacle. 
Better far throw pearls before swine, than pour 
good coffee into the cups of the indifferent. 

The sympathies of the gourmand are all for 
the mighty ones of old — for an Epicurus in 
Greece, a Lucullus in Rome — to whom the gods 
had not yet given the greatest of their gifts, 
coffee. Sad indeed the banquet, dreamy the 
evening uncheered, unblessed by fragrant 
Mocha or mild Mysore. Poor mortals still 
stood without the gates of Paradise, never once 
foreseeing the exquisite joys to come, uncon- 
scious of the penalty they paid for living so 
much too soon. And while they thus dwelt in 
sorrowful ignorance, shepherds, leading their 
flocks through sweet pasture-land, paused in 
their happy singing to note that the little kids 
and lambs, an\i even staid goats and sheep, 
waxed friskier and merrier, and frolicked with 
all the more light-hearted abandonment after 
they had browsed upon a certain berry-bearing 
bush. Thyme and lavender, mint and mar- 
joram, never thus got into their little legs, and 



Enchanting Coffee 251 

sent them flying off on such jolly rambles and 
led them into such unseemly antics. And the 
shepherds, no doubt, plucked the berry and 
tasted it, and found it good. And one day — ■ 
who knows how? — by chance, they roasted it, 
and the fragrance was as incense in their nos- 
trils. And then, another time they pounded 
it, and, it may be by merest accident, it fell 
into the water boiling over the fire for their 
midday meal. And thus, first, coffee was made. 

To Abyssinia, otherwise an unknown factor 
in the history of good living, belongs the credit 
of producing the first coffee-drinkers. All hon- 
our where honour is due. The debt of the 
modern to Greece and Rome is smaller far than 
to that remote country which not one man in 
ten, to whom coffee is a daily necessity, could 
point out upon the map. 

Arabs, wandering hither and thither, came 
to Abyssinia as they journeyed, and there drank 
the good drink and rejoiced. Among them 
were pious Moslems, who at times nodded over 
prayers, and, yawning pitifully as texts were 
murmured by lazy lips, knew that damnation 
must be their doom unless sleep were banished 



252 Enchanting Coffee 

from their heavy eyes at prayer time. And to 
them as to the sheep and lambs, as to the goats 
and kids, the wonder-working berry brought 
wakefulness and gaiety. And into Arabia the 
Happy, they carried it in triumph, and coffee 
was drunk not for temporal pleasure but for 
spiritual uses. It kept worshippers awake and 
alert for the greater glory of Allah, and the 
faithful accepted it with praise and thanks- 
giving. 

But, again, like the flocks in Abyssinian pas- 
tures, it made them too alert, it seems. After 
coffee, prayer grew frolicsome, and a faction 
arose to call it an intoxicant, to declare the 
drinking of it a sin against the Koran. Schisms 
followed, and heresies, and evils dire and man- 
ifold. But coffee fought a good fight against 
its enemies and its detractors ; and from Arabia 
it passed to Constantinople, from Turkey to 
England, and so on from country to country, 
until in the end there was not one in Europe, 
or in the New World (which men had not then 
so long discovered), but had welcomed the 
berry that clears the clouded brain and stimu- 
lates the jaded body. 



Enchanting Coffee 253 

To all men its finest secrets have not been 
revealed. Dishonoured by many it has been 
and still is. Unspeakable liquids, some thick 
and muddy, others thin and and pale, borrow 
its name with an assurance and insolence that 
fool the ignorant. Chicory arrogantly and un- 
scrupulously pretends to compete with it, and 
the thoughtless are deceived, and go their way 
through life obdurate and unrepentant, deliber- 
ately blinding themselves to the truth. Others 
understand not the hour and the place, and 
order it at strange moments and for stranger 
functions. Americans there be who, from 
thick, heavy, odious cups, drink it, plentifully 
weakened with milk, as the one proper and fit 
accompaniment for dinner; a spoonful of coffee 
follows a spoonful of soup ; another is prelude 
to the joint ; a second cup poisons the sweet. 
On the other hand, be it admitted in fairness, 
no coffee is purer and better than that of the 
American who has not fallen into such mis- 
taken courses. And he who doubts should, 
without delay, drop in at Fuller's in Regent 
Street, or the Strand, where to taste is to 
believe. 



254 Enchanting Coffee 

In the afternoon, plump German matrons and 
maids gather about the coffee-pot, and fancy, 
poor souls! that they, of all womankind, are 
most discriminating in their choice of time and 
opportunity. Gossip flows smoothly on ; house- 
hold matters are placidly discussed; and the 
one and only end of coffee remains for them, 
now and always, unknown and unsuspected. 
In their blameless innocence and guileless con- 
fidence, may they have whatever happiness 
belongs by right to the race of humble and un- 
aspiring housewives. 

In England the spurious is preferred to the 
genuine; and rare, indeed, is the house or res- 
taurant, the hotel or lodgings, where good 
coffee is the portion of blundering humanity. 
Over the barbarous depths into which the soul- 
inspiriting berry has been dragged in unhappy 
Albion, it is kinder to draw a veil. 

But in the inscrutable East, the cradle of 
mystici-sm, where no problem discourages ear- 
nest seekers after truth, coffee may yet be had 
in full perfection. In the West, France is not 
without her children of light, and in the tall 
glass of the cafi or the deep bowl of the auberge 



Enchanting Coffee 255 

coffee sometimes is not unworthy of the name, 
though chicory, the base, now threatens its 
ruin. However, Austria, nearer to the mother- 
country, makes the coffee of France seem but a 
paltry imitation, so delicious is the beautiful 
brown liquid, flowing in rich perennial streams 
in every ca//, gilded or more modest. And yet 
Austria, in her turn, is eclipsed, wholly and 
completely, by the home of Attila and Kossuth. 
Drink, if only once, coffee on the banks of the 
Danube, while gipsies " play divinely into your 
ear," and life will never more seem quite so 
meaningless. 

It is not easy to understand why the multi- 
tude continue content with a bad substitute 
when the thing itself, in all its strength and 
sweetness, may be had for the asking. A little 
knowledge, a trifle more experience, and good 
coffee may be the solace and stimulus of the 
honest Briton, as of the wily Turk, the wander- 
ing Arab, and the fierce Magyar. 

Know then, first, that your coffee berries 
must be pure and unadulterated. Turn a deaf 
ear to the tempter who urges economy and 
promises additional flavour. Against chicory, 



256 Enchanting Coffee 

protest cannot be too urgent or violent. It is 
poison, rank and deadly. The liver it attacks, 
the nerves it destroys, and the digestion it 
disorganises hopelessly, disastrously. To the 
well-trained palate it is coarse beyoiid redemp- 
tion. The fictitious air of strength it lends to 
the after-dinner cup delights the ignorant and 
saddens the wise. But why waste too reck- 
lessly good paper and type upon so degrading a 
topic? Why not say once and for all that chic- 
ory is impossible and revolting, an insult to the 
epicure, a cruel trial to the sybarite, a crime to 
the artist? Renounce it before it is too late, 
and put your trust in the undrugged berries 
from Arabia or Brazil, from Java or Porto 
Rico. Mocha is irreproachable, though it loses 
nothing when blended with Java or Mysore. 

As the painter mixes his colours upon his 
palette until the right tint springs into being, 
so, if in befitting humility and patience, you 
blend coffee with coffee, know that the day is 
at hand when the perfect flavour will be born 
of the perfect union. From venturing to rec- 
commend one harmony above all others, the 
most daring would refrain ; Mocha and Java 



Enchanting Coffee 257 

might inspire hymns of praise in Paradise ; and 
yet many gourmets would yearn for a keener, 
stronger aroma, many sigh for a subtler. As 
in matters of love, for yourself must you choose 
and decide. 

Sacrilegious indeed it were if, after infinite 
trouble and tender care in your choice, you de- 
livered the blend of your heart to the indiffer- 
ent roasting pans, or cylinders, of any chance 
grocer. Roast it yourself, so that the sweet 
savour thereof fills your house with delicious 
memories of the Eastern bazaar and the Italian 
ptazza. Roast it in small quantities, no more 
at a time than may be needed for the " little 
breakfast," or the after-dinner cup. And roast 
it fresh for each meal. Be not led astray by 
the indolent and heedless who prize the saving 
of labour above the pleasures of drink, and, 
without a blush of shame, would send you to a 
shop to buy your berries roasted. The elect 
listen not to the tempting of the profane. In a 
saucepan, with lid, may the all-important deed 
be done. Or else a vessel shaped for the sol- 
emn rite may be bought. But whichever be 
used, let your undivided attention direct the 
17 



258 Enchanting Coffee 

process; else the berries will be burnt. A 
small piece of pure, irreproachable butter in 
the pan or "drum" will prove a friendly ally. 
While still hot, place the brown berries — care- 
fully separating those done to a turn from the 
over-burnt, if any such there be — in the expec- 
tant mill, and grind at once. 

If much depend upon the roasting, no less is 
the responsibility that rests with the grinding. 
The working of the mill, soft and low as heard 
from afar, makes most musical accompaniment 
to dinner's later courses. It is guarantee of 
excellence, certificate of merit. -Thus trusted 
to the mill, when time presses, none of the 
coffee's essence can escape, none of its aroma. 
And there is art in the grinding: ground ex- 
ceeding small it may answer for boiling, but 
not for filtering or dripping ; and so be wary. 
If picturesqueness of preparation have charms 
for you, then discard the mill and, vying with 
the Turks, crush the berries in a mortar with 
a wooden crusher. The difference in results, 
though counted vast by the pedant, in truth 
exists not save in the imagination. 

And now collect your thoughts in all serious- 



Enchanting Coffee 259 

ness and reverence, for the supreme moment 
has come. The berries are roasted and ground : 
the coffee is to be made! And how? That's 
the problem to the Englishwoman to whom 
good coffee is a mystery as unfathomable as 
original sin or papal infallibility. How? By 
a process so ridiculously easy as to be laughed 
to scorn by the complex modern. In all art it 
is the same — simplicity, the fruit of knowledge 
and experience, is a virtue beyond compare. 
But poor blind humans, groping after would-be 
ideals, seek the complicated, mistaking it to be 
the artistic. Arguing then, from their own 
foolish standpoint, they invent strange and 
weird machines in which they hope to manu- 
facture perfection; coffee-pots, globular in 
shape, which must be turned suddenly, swiftly, 
surely, at the critical instant, else will love's 
labour all be lost; coffee-pots, with glass tubes 
up which the brown liquid rushes, then falls 
again, a Niagara in miniature; coffee-pots with 
accommodating whistles blowing shrill warning 
to the slothful ; coffee-pots that explode, bomb- 
like, at the slightest provocation ; coffee-pots 
that splutter, overflow, burst, get out of order, 



26p Enchanting Coffee 

and, in a word, do everything that is dreadful 
and unseemly. Of these, one and all, fight 
shy. Coffee calls not for a practical engineer 
to run the machine. 

In three ways, so simple a child may under- 
stand, so perfect a god might marvel, can the 
delectable drinlc, that gives wakefulness and a 
clear brain, be made. In the first place, in 
ordinary pot, it may be boiled, allowing a 
tablespoonful of the ground berries to a cup of 
water, taking the pot off the fire, once the 
beautiful, seductive brown froth is formed on 
the top, pouring in a small teaspoonful of water 
that the grounds may settle; serve without 
delay, linger over it lovingly, and then go 
forth gaily to conquer and rejoice. 

In the second place — more to be commended 
— use a cafitiire, or filter of tin or earthenware, 
the latter by preference. Place the coffee, 
ground not too fine, and in the same propor- 
tions, in the upper compartment. Pour in 
slowly water that is just at the boiling point, a 
little only at a time, keeping the kettle always 
on the fire that the all-important boiling point 
may not be lost, and let the water filter or drip 



Enchanting Coffee 261 

slowly through the grounds spread in a neat 
layer. Some there be who stand the pot or 
lower compartment in a pan of boiling water, 
and they have reason with them. Others who, 
when all the water has passed through to the 
pot below, set it to filtering, or dripping, a sec- 
ond time, and they are not wholly wrong. But 
of all things, be careful that the coffee does not 
cool in the process. Of life's many abomina- 
tions, lukewarm coffee is the most abominable. 
The third of the three ways yields Turkish 
coffee. The special pots for the purpose, with 
their open tops and long handles, are to be 
found in one or more large Regent-street and 
Oxford-street shops. Get the proper vessel, 
since it answers best, and is, however, a pleas- 
ure to the eye, a stimulus to the imagination of 
all who at one happy period of their lives have 
dwelt in Turkey or neighbouring lands. Now, 
grind your coffee finer, but be faithful to the 
same proportions. Into the water drop first the 
sugar, measuring it according to your taste or 
mood, or leaving it out altogether if its sweet- 
ness offend you. Put your pot on the fire, and 

TirVifin fhia wm^f^T 1G "hnili-no* mprrilv Hrnn in i\\f^ 



262 Enchanting Coffee 

coffee. To a boil, as kitchen slang has it, let 
it come, but gay bubbles on its surface must be 
signal to lift off the pot; put it on the fire 
again, almost at once, remove it bubbling a 
second time, put it on again, and again remove 
it. This device repeated thrice will be enough, 
though a fourth repetition can do no harm. A 
teaspoonful of cold water will compel unruly 
grounds to settle. Ponr the thick, rich, brown 
liquid, as it breaks into beautiful yellow froth 
on the top, into the daintiest cups your cup- 
board holds, and drink it and happiness to- 
gether. 

To add cream or milk to Turkish cofiEee 
would be a crime; nor must more sugar be 
dropped into its fragrant, luscious depths. Or- 
dinary after-dinner coffee should also be drunk 
without cream or milk, if pleasure be the 
drinker's end. Indeed, a question it is wheth- 
er it be ever wise to dilute or thicken coffee 
and tea with milk, however well boiled, with 
cream, however fresh. The flavour is de- 
stroyed, the aroma weakened. But black coffee 
with breakfast would mean to begin the day at 
too high a state of pressure, in undue exhilara- 



Enchanting Coffee 263 

tion of spirits. To speak honestly, coffee is no 
less a mistake in the morning hours than 
Whisky-and-soda or Absinthe. But custom has 
sanctioned it; it has become a bad habit from 
one end of the Continent to the other, in innu- 
merable otherwise wholly decorous British 
households. But slaves of habit sliould wear 
their chains so that there is as little friction 
and chafing as possible. Therefore, make your 
morning coffee strong and aromatic and pure as 
if destined for after-dinner delights: but pour 
into it much milk; half and half would prove 
proportions within reason. Not out of the way 
is it to borrow a hint from provincial France 
and serve caf^-au-lait in great bowls, thus tacitly 
placing it forever on a plane apart from cafd 
noir. Or else, borrow wisdom from wily 
Magyar and frivolous Austrian, and exquisite, 
dainty, decorative whipped cream heap up high 
on the surface of the morning cup. Take train 
to-morrow for Budapest; haunt its cafds and 
kiosques, from the stately Renter to the Dan- 
ube-commanding Hungaria ; study their meth- 
ods with diligence and sincerity; and then, if 
there be a spark of benevolence within you, 



264 Enchanting Coffee 

return to preach the glad gospel of good coffee 
to the heathen at home. A hero you would be, 
worthy countryman of Nelson and of Welling- 
ton; and thus surely should you win for your- 
self fame, and a niche in Westminster Abbey. 




i<uikl!i,iiii;iiliiti!lMil3i3'l r 



iPi 






"K'). 



J fi' 



,»)|'I 



(<H Ul 



.i)IJfiUMIII(mit(}MlSft!f)lllfl£l(HfifHJtftUU](llJJtJi(ltttf^l)lk'. 



