


M l«r'S'i.''n',.i, 



^' >!■ '' ' I !,' ilj'/i! Til 



ill H'l \ tk\^ 



1 , , i 



i 



1.1! ii r,*. 






'» 1" 



ia;lii;iinP|Mr-^ . ., - 



r''Rf;illH 



.!!Lii<i!l!i 



I ill 




Class 
Book. 



^T53 



^llT 



Gopyiight^I^ 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSrr. 



300 

WAYS 

Cook and Sef^ve 

Shell pish 



Tei'rapiii 
Green Turtle Snapper 

Oysters 

Oyster Crabs Lobsters 

Clams 

Crabs and Shrimps 



BY 

H. FRANKLYN HALL 

Chef Boothby Hotel Company 

Philadelphia, Pa. 



PHILADELPHIA, PA., 
Christian Banner Phint, 1842 Lombard St. 






f^ 



TH£ LIBRARY OF 

CONGRESS, 
One Copy Received 

""AY. 13 1901 

Copyright entry 

CUASS^XXc. No 

COPY^ 



Copyright, 1901, by H. Frankl> n Hall, Philadelphia, Pa, 



HutvoDuction 



To the possessor or reader of this work, I as- 
sure you that you will find nothing but plain and 
simple truths. Any one of the three hundred re- 
ceipts herein would cost you more than the price 
of the entire book if separately obtained. Many 
ladies and gentlemen can testify who have ap- 
plied to me for the same at Boothby's during the 
past ten years. I have purposely made them 
plain and simple, so that not only the lady of the 
house can understand them, but lo save her an- 
noyance, the butler, housekeeper or cook, not 
only the proprietor, steward or chef, but the side 
cook, all of whom hope to become chefs some day 
as well. I have purposely used the most simple 
terms in naming the different ingreiiients and in 
constructing the receipts, so that they would not 
confuse and annoy, but prove a help and benefit 
to all who attempt lo use the same. Hoping that 
your every effort may prove a success, 
I am very truly yours, 

H. FRANKLYN HALL, 

Author. 



Ibietori^ o! tbe Hutbor as a Chef 



To show to the readers my wide experience as 
a chef, I quote the following leading hostelries 
and cafes that I have been connected with dur- 
ing my career : Larkin House, Watch Hill, R. I., 
two seasons ; Dixon House, Westerly, R. I , three 
years and eleven months ; Stockton House, At- 
lantic City, N. J.: Congress Hall, Atlantic City, 
N. J.; Hotel Oceanic, Barnegat, N. J.; Seaside 
Park Hotel, Seaside Park, N. J.; Beachwood Inn, 
Jenkintown, Pa., three seasons ; Mansion House, 
Irvin House, Partridge Bros., two years, Phila- 
delphia ; steward and manager for J. Arthur, 529 
Chestnut street, Philadelphia, three years. Dur- 
ing the past fifteen years and at present, Chef 
Boothby Hotel Company, whose restaurants are 
at 1231-123:3 and 1235 Chestnut street, Philadel- 
phia. They contain the generally acknowledged 
largest and finest oyster and shell fish depart- 
ment in the world. 



liable of Contents 



The receipts in this book tell how to prepare, cook, pre- 
serve and serve the following as it has been prepared and 
served by your humble servant, the author, to persons and 
people of most every nationality— from the most elevated 
to the humble stations in life— during his service in pub- 
lic life as cook and chef for twenty-nine years : 

TERRAPIN. 

1. Kinds. 8. Stewed Baltimore Club 

2. How to cleanse. Style. 

3. How to prepare. 9. Croquettes a la Madeira. 

4. How to preserve. 10. Vol au vents. 

5. Stewed a la Wormely. 11. Puree a 1 Imperial. 
•6. Stewed a la Maryland. 12. En Timbals. 

7. Stewed a la Virginia. 13. How to make timbal shells 

GREEN TURTLE. 

1. How to select. 6. Steaks. 

2. How to prepare. 7. Cutlets. 

3. How to preserve. 8. Farci a la Timbal. 
4- Soup, clear. 9. A la Poulette. 

5. Soup a 1 Anglaise. lo. Patti a la Rhine. 

SNAPPER. 

1. How to select. 8. Soup a 1 Espagnole. 

2. How to cleanse. 9. Stewed a la Boothby. 

3. How to prepare. 10. Stewed a la Maryland. 

4. How to preserve. 11. Stewed a la Cream. 

5. Soup a la Maryland. 12. Stewed a la Royal. 

6. Soup a la Boothby. 13. Patti. 

7. Soup a la Cream. 14. Croquettes a la Bordelaise 

OYSTERS. 

1. Kinds. 3. Broth. 

2. How to serve raw. 4. Soup. 



300 WAYS TO COOK 



5- 


Puree. 


34- 


6. 


Bisque. 


35- 


7- 


Dry Pan. 




8. 


Wet Pan. 


36. 


9- 


Box Pan. 




lO. 


Pan a la Crouton. 


37- 


II. 


Pan a la Colbert. 




12. 


Pan a la Germain. 


38. 


13- 


Pan a la Breton, 




14. 


Pan a la Oyster 


39- 




Crabs. 


40. 


T5- 


Broiled a la Boothby. 


41. 


16. 


Broiled a la Maryland. 


42. 


17- 


Broiled a la Madeira. 




18. 


Broiled a 1 Espagnole. 


43- 


19. 


Broiled, Baltimore style. 




20. 


Broiled, New \ ork 


44. 




style. 


45- 


21. 


Broiled a la Delmonico. 


46. 


22. 


Broiled a la Royal. 


47- 


23- 


Broiled a la Cream. 


48. 


24. 


Broiled a la Breton. 


49 


25- 


Broiled with Celery 


50- 



sauce. 51. 

26. Broiled, garnished with 52. 
Oyster Crabs. 53. 

27. Broiled a la Diabel. 54, 

28. Broiled a la Rhine. 55. 

29. Broiled a la Brennon. 

30. Broiled in Bread Crumbs 56. 
plain. 57. 

31. Broiled in Cracker Dust 
plain. 58. 

32. Broiled, Boston style. 59 

33. Broiled al Im^^erial. 



Farci o Oysters. 
Tripe and Oysters z la 
Newburg. 

Tripe and Oysters a la 
Delmonico. 
Tripe and Oysters a la 
Rh n . 

Tripe and Oysters a la 
Boothby. 
Oyster Fritters. 
Oyster Pan Cakes. 
Oyster Omelet. 
Minced Oys'ers Scram- 
bled with Eggs. 
Oysters en Timbal. 
American Style. 
Steamed. 
Roast in Shell. 
Minced a la Crouton. 
A la Getz. 
Patti a la Cream, 
Patti a la Royal. 
Vol au vents. 
Stewed. 

Stewed with Celery. 
Box Stew, 

Stewed with TrufiBes. 
Stewed with fresh Mush- 
rooms. 

Stewed a la Diplomate. 
Stewed with Oyster 
Crabs. 

Cream Oyster Stew. 
Cream Oyster Stew with 
Celery. 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 



60. Cream Oyster Stew with 80. 
fresh Mushrooms. 81. 

61. Cream Oyster Stew with 82. 
Oyster Crabs. 83. 

62. Cream Oyster Stew with 84. 
Truffles. 85. 

63. Cream Oyster Stew a la 86. 
Royal. 87. 

64. Cream Oyster Stew a 1 
Imperial. 88. 

65. Rissols of Oysters. 

66. En Coquelle. 89. 

67. Escalloped. 

68. Escalloped Maitre d' 90. 
Hote. 

69. En Loaf. 91. 

70. En Canopy. 92. 

71. En Brochette. 93. 

72. Oysters au Gratine a 1 94. 
Italienne. 95. 

73. A la Bordelaise. 96. 

74. Frappe. 97. 

75. Spiced. 98. 

76. Deviled in Shell. 99. 

77. Deviled, Club House 
Style. 100 

78. Croquettes. loi 

79. Cutlets. 

CLAMS 

1. Kinds. 7. 

2. Raw. 8. 

3. Broth. 9. 

4. Puree. 

5. Bisque. 10. 

6. Stewed. 



Fried a la Boothby. 
Fried a la Maryland. 
Fried, Baltimore style. 
Fried, Boston style. 
Fried, New York style. 
Fried Tenderloins. 
French Fried, plain. 
French Fried a la Booth- 
by. 

French Fried, Boston 
style. 

French Fried with Ba- 
con. 

French Fried Tender- 
loins, Tomato Sauce. 
French Fried a la Cream. 
French Fried a la Diable. 
Frizzled. 
Fricassee. 
A la Newburgf. 
Delmonico. 
A la Foulette. 
Oyster Fie a la Boothby 
Oyster Fie, Baltimore 
style. 

. Oyster Pie, Family style. 
. Spiced Oysters. 



Panned. 

Stewed in Cream. 
Stewed in Cream with 
Celery. 

Chowder, New England 
style. 



300 WAYS TO COOK 



11. Chowder a la Boothby. i8. 

12. Chowder Harlem River 19. 
style. 20. 

13. Clam Bake. 21. 

14. Deviled in Shell 22. 

15. Deviled, Club House 23. 
style. 24. 

16. Croquettes. 25. 

17. Minced on Toast. 26. 

LOBSTE] 

1. How to select. 19. 

2. How to cook. 

3. Puree. 

4. Bisque. 20. 

5. Stewed, plain. 

6. Stewed, Virginia style. 21. 

7. Stewed, New England 
style. 22. 

8. Saute a la Royal. 

9. Saute a 1 Imperial. 23. 

10. Saute a la Rhine. 24. 

11. En Timbal, American 
style. 25. 

12. Fricassee. 26. 

13. Curry with Rice. 2^]. 

14. A la Bordelaise. 28. 

15. Stewed in Cream. 29. 

16. Plain, Boiled in Shell, 30. 
rold, with Tartar 31. 
Sauce. 32. 

17. Plain Boiled in Shell, 33. 
cold, with Vinaigrette 34. 

Sauce. 35. 

18. Plain, Boiled in Shell, 36. 
cold, with Chili Sauce. 37. 



Frilters. 
Pan Cakes. 
Patti. 
Fried. 

Fried Tenderloin. 
Broiled. 
En Brochette. 
Steamed. 
Roast in Shell. 
{. 

Plain Boiled in Shell, 
cold with Mayonnaise 
Dressing. 

Plain Boiled. Hot, with 
Sauce Piquant. 
Plain Boiled, Hot, with 
Sauce Maitre d' Hote. 
Plain Boiled, Hot, with 
Sauce Bernaise. 
Deviled Lobster in Shell 
Deviled Lobster, Club 
House style. 
Lobster Butter. 
A la Newburg. 
A la Delmonico. 
A la Boothby. 
A la Brennon. 
A la Flockey. 
A la Russ. 
Broiled, Live. 
Broiled, Live, Stuffed. 
Cutlets, Cream Sauce. 
Cutlets, Cardinal Sauce. 
Patti a la Cream. 
Patti a la Terrapin. 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 



38. 

39- 

I. 
2. 

3- 

4- 

5- 
6. 

7- 



Claws, French Fried 40. Claws Braised a la Ger- 

with Bacon. main. 

Claws a la Maryland. 41 Lobster Salad. 

CRABS. 

How to Cook. 9. Minced on Toast. 

How to Pick. 10. Cntlets, Sauce a 1 Ar- 

Puree. niande. 

Salad Mayonnaise Ores- 11. Cakes, Butter Sauce. 

sing- 12. Patti a la Cream. 

Salad French Dressing. 13. En Croquette. 

Salad Bernaise Dres- 14. Modi d' Kane. 

si"g- 15- Farci a la Crouton. 

Deviled a la Cream. 16, Butter. 

Deviled, Baltimore 17. Sandwiches. 

style. 

OYSTER CRABS. 

Pl^in- 9. Saute a la Royal. 

Salad French Dressing 10. Saute en Case. 
Salad Mayonnaise Dres- 11. A la Newburg. 



sing. 

Stewed in Cream. 

Omelets. 

Broiled. 

Patti. 

En Coquelle. 



12. En Timbal. 

13. Farci en Sweetbread. 

14. Canopy a la Lorenzo. 

15. In Butter. 

16. A la Cherville. 



SHRIMPS. 

How to Cook and Shell. 5. Broiled, Drawn Butter. 



Salad. 

Blanched in Butter. 

Stewed in Cream. 

A 1 Armande. 
A la Lorenzo. 
Bernaise. 



6. Broiled a la Diable. 

7. Butter. 

8. Sandwiches. 

SAUCES. 

4. Bordelaise. 

5. Boston. 

6. Bechamel. 



3CO WAYS TO COOK 



7. Brown or Espagnole. 

8. Clam. 

9. Crab. 
ID. Cream. 

11. Curry. 

12. Devil or Diable. 

13. Diplomate. 

14. Delmonico. 

15. Terrapin. 

16. Snapper Dressing. 

17. Caramel Dressing. 

18. French Dressing. 

19. Imperial. 



20. Lobster. 

21. Mayonnaise Dressing. 

22. Madeira. 

23. Maitre d' Hote. 

24. Newburg. 

25. Oyster. 

26. Piquant. 

27. Royal. 

28. Shrimp. 

29. Tomato. 

30. Tartar. 

31. Vinaigrette. 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 



(Tautton 



Most persons think that it is not necessary to 
follow instructions exactly as given in preparing, 
cooking or serving an article of food. The same 
is a common but serious mistake. For instance, 
if you think it does not matter whether you bleed 
a green turtle five minutes or an hour, you will 
simply make the mistake that will keep you from 
ever making the kind of clear green turtle soup 
containing clear bottle green meat with the soft, 
smooth, peculiar flavor, which is procured in 
houses whose cuisine department is under the 
management of Chefs, who take no chances on 
hit-or-miss cooking. The receipts in this book 
are the approved results of years of study, build- 
ing up and pulling down, by some of the best and 
most renowned Cliefs who have ever lived. 



3CO WAYS TO COOK 



IRcceipts 



NO. I.— KINDS OF TERRAPIN TO BE USED IN THE 
FOLLOWING RECEIPTS. 

Stewed terrapin, vol au vents and timbals of 
terrapin. Use salt water or diamond back ter- 
rapin only, either counts or scants, providing 
they are fat. For croquettes or puree, near-by 
or fresh water will do as well as diamond backs, 
which only costs about a third as much or less. 
No part of red legs are fit to use except the eggs. 



NO. 2.— TO CLEANSE TERRAPIN. 
Place them in clear running water from twelve 
to thirty-six hours. 



NO. 3.— TO PREPARE TERRAPIN. 
Wash them in luke-warm water, then dip them 
in scalding hot water several times ; place them 
one at a time on their back on a table and take a 
small clean towel and quickly but gently, so as 
not to tear the flesh, rub all of the outer skin from 
the head, neck, legs and tail. After all are pre- 
pared in the above manner, place them in a pot of 
boiling water and boil steadily until the legs can 
be easily separated from the body without any ef- 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 1 3 

fort. It usually takes from thirty to seventy-five 
minutes to boil terrapin, sometimes a little longer 
it all depends upon the age and condition of the 
terrapin. A young fat terrapin w^ill cook in much 
less time than it takes to cook a young poor ter- 
rapin or an old terrapin. Alw^ays separate the 
meat from the shell before the terrapin becomes 
entirely chilled. If a terrapin has been thor- 
oughly cleansed according to directions in receipt 
No. 2, every particle of it except the shell, gall, 
etc., can be used. Be careful in detaching the 
liver so as not to break the gall. 



NO 4 —TO PRESERVE TERRAPIN MEAT FOR AN 
INDEFINITE TIME. 

Place it in stone or china-ware, leaving a 
space of four inches or more betw^een the meat 
and the top of the vessel containing the ter- 
rapin. If to be used as stew^ed terrapin a la Mary- 
land, stewed a la Wormeley, stewed, Baltimore 
Club style, vol au vents or en timbals, boil the 
water in which the terrapin has been cooked gen- 
tly for two hours and skim often. Cool and put 
in a not with a bunch of parsley, egg shells, cel- 
ery or celery tops ; one-half gill of L, and P. 
sauce ; place on a slow fire and cook until per- 
fectly clear ; strain through cheese cloth or flan- 
nel same as consomme. To every pint needed to 
fill vessel four inches above top of meat, add one 
half pint of the best Madeira wine and pour 
over terrapin hot and allow it to cool gently. 
When making dressing for terrapin use this 
liquid. If these directions are followed terrapin 



14 300 WAYS TO COOK 



thus preserved will be as sweet in one or twelve 
months as on the day prepared. If the terrapin 
is to be used as stewed terrapin, Virginia style 
or a la cream only, cover well in drawn butter 
mildly spiced with L. and P. sauce. Cool quick- 
ly. Will keep very sweet indefinitely in a tem- 
perature below forty degrees. When making 
dressing for terrapin use this drawn butter. 

NO. 5.— STEWED TERRAPIN A LA WORMELY. 

Place as much terrapin meat as is desired to be 
used in a silver chafing dish or a tin-lined copper 
sauce pan. Put same quantity and one-half as 
much again of terrapin rue or dressing as you 
have of meat in the same pan ; add Madeira and 
brandy (best only) to taste. If plain dressed terra- 
pin meat is preserved a la Madeira, add brandy 
only. Serve in silver tureens, individual or fine 
china dessert plates and decorate with terrapin 
eggs and thin sliced truffles. 

NO. 6.— STEWED TERRAPIN A LA MARYLAND. 

Follow same directions as in No. 5 in preparing 
terrapin a la Maryland. Make the dressing a 
light amber color by using tasteless caramel. 
Serve in individual silver tureens or fine china 
dessert plates with cheese patti. 

NO. 7.— STEWED TERRAPIN A LA VIRGINIA. 

Place dressed terrapin meat before cooling 
in a silver chafing dish or a tin-lined copper 
sauce pan and add one-eighth of a pound 
of butter, ten broken oyster crackers, one-half 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 



15 



pint of cream, one-fouth teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley to the meat of every full count terrapin 
or the equivalent thereof; salt and pepper to 
taste. Saute gently for fifteen minutes and 
serve m individual silver turerns or fine china 
dessert plates. 

NO. S— STEWED TERRA.PIN. BALTIMORE STYLE. 
Proceed exactly as for terrapin a la Maryland, 
except that you use Madeira wine only. Serve 
in cases, with fresh fried Saratoga chips. 

NO. 9 -^TERRAPIN CROQUETTES. 
Place one-fourth of a pound of butter in a tin- 
lined copper saute pan with one-third of a small 
onion minced very fine ; cook gently for ten min- 
utes and stir in gently with wooden spoon or pad- 
dle one-half pound of flour; place on brisk fire and 
stir continuously until rue rollc away from the 
bottom sides of saute pan. While stirring the rue 
pour in gently three gills of sweet cream and one- 
half pint of Madeira wine ; remove from the fire 
and stir in the yolks of five eggs well whipped ; 
one-half teaspoonful of fine chopped parsley and 
the ground or fine chopped meat of two full counts 
or four scant terrapins. Any kind of terrapin 
meat except red legs will do. Grease with melt- 
ed butter, a large china platter and press out 
as flat as the dish will admit. Cool quickly in an 
ice box. if possible, and serve with terrapin dress- 
ing or Madeira sauce. The above quantity will 
make thirty full size or sixty one-half size cro- 
quettes. 



l6 300 WAYS TO COOK 



NO. lo.-PRTITE VOL AU-VENTS OF TERRAPIN. 

Place a petite shell of puff paste in a small soup 
or dessert plate of fine china or silver, filling the 
shell with stewed terrapin of any style prepared 
and placing a slice of trufile on top and lightly 
sprinkling over the whole a very little chopped 
parsley. 

NO. II.— PUREE A L IMPERIAL OF TERRXPIN. 
Can be made of any kind of terrapin, even red 
legs, and this is the only purpose that all of the 
meat of red legs is fit for. To make puree of ter- 
rapin take four quarts of the water in which the 
terrapin was broiled, and place it on a brisk fire 
with two medium-sized onions chopped ; four 
celery tops, one bunch of parsley and two pounds 
of chuck meat of venison ; boil until the whole 
is reduced to two quarts, and add whatever ter- 
rapin meat, dressing and shells you have, and boil 
thirty minutes and take off" and strain through a 
sieve; place back on the fire and add one pint of 
port wine ; whip the yolks of eight eggs, two ta- 
blespoonfuls of corn starch, and one pint of sweet 
cream thoroughly ; pour gently into the terrapin 
broth while boiling, with the left hand, and whip 
continuously with an egg whip in the right hand; 
continue to whip for one minute without pausing 
for a second, and then take off and strain through 
a pure sieve or what is commonly known to cooks 
as a china cap. The above will serve twenty -five 
persons, if made according to receipt. It is very 
costly and very delicate, and it can be prepared 
ten or twelve days in advance of service. Age 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 17 



benefits it if it is kept in a cold, even tempera- 
ture. 

NO. 12.— TERRAPIN EN TIMBAL. 
Place a lace paper mat in the center of a fine 
china or small silver plate and a timbal shell in 
the center of the mat and fill with stewed 
terrapin. Repeat the above as many times as 
there are persons to serve. 



NO. 13.— HOW TO MAKE TIMBAL SHELLS. 
Place a small iron pot on a hot fire containing 
melted lard, four inches deep, Place a timbal iron 
in hot lard and take one-half a pound of flour and 
make an ordinary griddle cake batter and add one- 
half a gill of ale or claret wine ; dip hot timbal 
iron in the batter and lift it out and quickly place 
it in the hot lard, allowing it to remain in not 
longer than one-half a minute; slip shell off of the 
iron on a clean dry towel, and you have a beau- 
tiful timbal shell. Repeat until you have the 
number of shells desired. A good timbal iron can 
be bought for $1.00. 



30O WAYS TO COOK 



GREEN TUKTLE. 



NO. I. -HOW TO SELECT GREEN TURTLE. 
Green turtle of almost any size or age is all 
right if thoroughly cooked, but an A No. 1 turtle 
should never weigh more than thirty or thirty- 
five pounds, and the skin and bottom shell should 
be white. Those of a yellowish cast should al- 
ways be avoided. 

NO. 2 -HOW TO PREPARE GREEN TURTLE. 
Lay it on its back with its head toward you. It 
is better always if some one holds the turtle 
steady, whilst with your left hand you draw the 
head toward you by stretching its neck full 
length. Take a strong sharp knife in the right 
hand, and with one clean swift stroke, detach the 
head from the body ; place the turtle in a posi- 
tion that will allow the blood to flow freely for 
fifteen or twenty minutes, after which remove 
the bottom shell with a sharp knife ; remove all 
of the entrails and giblets except the livers. In 
removing the livers be careful not to break the 
gall : then with a sharp knife cut all of the meat 
from the top shell and lay it in scalding water for 
about one minute ; rub with a clean coarse towel 
the legs and all of the flesh containing an outer 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 19 

skin until it is all removed ; with a cleaver cut 
both shells into four or five pieces. Lay in scald- 
ing water two or three minutes and remove from 
the water, and while hot peel off with the assist- 
ance of a knife all of the skin and bristle from 
the shell ; lay meat and shell in cold salt water 
for an hour, after which you have well bleached 
turtle meat, white and green, ready to cook. 



NO. 3.— TO COOK AND PRESB:RVE TURTLE MEAT. 

Place a twelve pound turtle in a tin-lined cop- 
per or iron pot with fourteen quarts of cold water; 
one pint can of raw tomatoes, one-fourth cup of 
Dregless Lea & Perrine Sauce, one stalk of celery, 
one bunch of parsley, one bunch of pot herbs, six 
whole cloves, six whole allspice, three whole bay 
leaves if green, four if dry, f^ur large onions cut 
up, one medium sized carrot cut up, one-fourth 
of a lemon, salt and pepper according to taste ; 
boil gentl}^ but steadily, until the white meat is 
well done, not over done, as that makes it stringy; 
allow green meat, most of which is in the shell, 
to cook until it is soft, and remove every bit of the 
meat from the shell as soon as it is done. Put all 
of tlie meat, white and green, in a collander and 
hold it under a cold water spicket and wash and 
cool thoroughly. If you are not going to use the 
meat the same day or for a week or ten days, 
place it in a stone jar or a large china bowl. Boil 
turtle bouillon down to ten quarts and strain it 
through flannel or cheese cloth (three thicknesses\ 
and pour on meat. Cool quickly in an ice box or 



300 WAYS TO COOK 



refrigerator. It should form ^ a jelly in two or 
three hours. 



NO. 4.— CLEAR GREEN TURTLE SOUP. 
To make clear green turtle soup, take turtle 
bouillon xjrepared according to receipt No. 3, clear 
and strain the same as you would consomme, 
using the white of eggs and shells, only while 
clearing ; stir often and gently, so as not to allow 
the egg to catch and hang to the bottom of the 
pot. To every eight quarts of strained bouillon, 
add one pint of white wine ; cut turtle meat in 
one-half inch blocks or dice ; put two tablespoon- 
fuls in each plate when ready to serv^e with one 
tablespoonful of sweetbread or calves' brain que- 
nelles; two slices of truffle and a ladle of bouillon, 
and you will be serving the second finest soup 
ever produced by man or woman. 

NO. 5.— GREEN TURTLE A L ANGLAISE. 
Put one pound of chopped bacon, one-half 
pound of butter, two medium-sized chopped 
onions, handful of chopped celery tops, bunch of 
pot herbs, one-fourth cup of L. and P. Sauce, six 
whole cloves, six whole allspice, three bay leaves, 
one tablespoonful of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful 
of red pepper and one-half teaspoonful of dry 
mustard in a tin -lined pot. Place over a brisk 
fire and cook one-half hour ; stir often, add one 
quart of raw tomatoes ; cook one-half hour longer 
and add one-half pound of dry flour ; cook twenty 
minutes and add four quarts of consomme or 
strong bouillon ; cook one hour and take off and 
strain through a pure sieve or a china cap ; pour 



ANB SERVE SHELL FISH. 



in a clean tin -lined pot and place on the fire and 
add the juice of one lemon and one pint of sweet 
Madeira wine. Cook ten minutes and remove 
from the fire and put one tablespoonful of diced 
turtle meat, one-half tablespoonful of quenelles, 
which is made of calf's brains or sweetbreads, 
one-half teaspoonful of chopped parsley and two 
thin slices of truffles in each soup plate. Pour 
one ladle of soup in plate and serve, Follow 
these directions carefully and you will have made 
the third finest body soup known to man. If 
kept in a cool even temperature it will retain its 
purity and sweetness for weeks, so that which is 
not used at first service need not be thrown away. 



NO. 6.— TURTLE STEAKS. 
Turtle Steaks are cut from the thick portions of 
the white meat of the turtle, either the shoulder or 
breast, and should be cut cross-grain and broiled 
always. Serve with either drawn butter, Rhine 
wine sauce, Madeira sauce or Bordelaise sauce. 

NO. 7.— TURTLE CUTLETS. 
Hash fine the parts of white meat of the turtle 
that are too stringy for other purposes, and stir 
into a rue the same as for croquettes. Cool, roll 
out and shape to fancy. Fry in boiling lard and 
serve with Madeira, Bordelaise or Royal sauce. 

NO. 8— FARCI TURTLE A LA TIMBAL. 

Hash stringy white meat of turtle, blanched 

-sweetbreads cut in one-fourth inch blocks, sliced 

mushrooms, chopped parsley, pepper, salt and 

grated nutmeg to taste ; stir in heavy Royal sauce 



300 WAYS TO COOK 



sufficient to bold together all of the ingredients, 
and fill it in timbal shells and sprinkle a little 
butter over the top and brown in a quick oven. 
Serve immediately. 



NO. 9. TURTLE A LA POULETTE. 
Cut in inch blocks of white and green meat of 
turtle, about two tablespoonfuls for each person 
to be served, and braise about five minutes in but- 
ter ; add about one-half a gill of white wine, and 
one gill of sweet cream, with the yolks of two well 
beaten eggs whipped in the cream. Cook about 
six minutes. Stir constantly while cooking and 
serve in a small soup plate or silver tureen with 
crouton on top, covered with chopped hard-boiled 
eggs and parsley 



NO. 10.--TURTLE PATTI A LA RHINE. 

Cut turtle meat up in inch blocks, saute in 

Royal sauce. Heat patti shells and place them 

on small plates and fill shells with saute turtle. 

Sprinkle chopped parsley over the top and serve. 



NOTE.— HOW TO MAKE QUENELLES. 
Blanch two sweetbreads, or one set of calves 
brains, chop very fine. Place in a china bowl 
with two ounces of flour, yolks of three eggs, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt, pinch of red or white 
pepper, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley ; mix 
well together until all is rolled into a stiff paste ; 
dust bread board or end of table with flour ; roll 
out into long strips with the hands, and with a 
sharp knife cut up in sizes to suit fancy. One- 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 23 

half size of meat is best, as they double their orig- 
inal size in the cooking. Dust well with flour and 
drop in boiling water or clarified chicken broth. 
Cook fifteen minutes and strain in a collander 
and rinse thoroughly with cold water. If not 
ready to use at once, put away in cold chicken 
broth. The above is the proper way to make 
quenelles for any kind of soup. 



24 300 WAYS TO COOK 



SNAPPER. 



NO. I. — HOW TO SELECT SNAPPER. 
To select a good snapper simply means to pro- 
cure a young and fat one. All snappers, if fat, 
are all right if cooked until they are well done. 



NO 2.— TO FATTEN AND CLEANSE SNAPPER. 

To fatten poor snappers, pen them up in a small 
space and feed them on almost any kind of soft 
cooked food and cooked meat, mostly fat. When 
well fattened place them in running water for 
twenty four or thirty-six hours. 



NO. 3.— HOW TO PREPARE SNAPPER. 
Stun snapper by striking on the nose with a 
cleaver or blunt instrument. Place snapper on a 
chopping block, holding it with the left hand and 
extend neck full length on block, and detach the 
hf ad from the body with one stroke of the cleaver. 
Bleed fifteen minutes and scald one minute. Take 
out of the water and rub all of the outer skin off 
with a clean dry towel. Prepare the same as 
green turtle. 



NO 4 —HOW TO PRESERVE SNAPPER. 
Cover meat with sherry and brandy, two-thirds 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 25 

of sherry and one-third of brandy, for all purposes 
except for snapper a la cream, which can be pre- 
served for months in a cool, even temperature by 
covering with melted butter. 



NO. 5.— SNAPPER SOUP A LA MARYLAND. 
Chop two pounds of bacon up and place it in a 
tin-lined pot with one-half pound of butter, two 
cloves of garlic and two large onions chopped, 
large bunch of pot herbs, six whole cloves, six 
whole allspice, one bunch of parsley, salt and red 
pepper to taste, handful of celery tops or one-half 
teaspoonful of celery salt, one-half cup of Dreg- 
less L. & P. Sauce, one pint can of raw tomatoes, 
one large spoonful of tasteless caromel ; cook for 
one hour, stirring often ; then add one-half pound 
of flour and cook twenty minutes longer ; then 
add six quarts of veal or chicken broth. Cook 
gently two hours and stir often. Take off and 
strain through a pure sieve or china cap. Add 
one pint of strong sherry, one quart of snapper 
meat cut in inch blocks, eight hard boiled eggs, 
chopped fine. Serve in silver tureens or small 
china plates. The above receipt will be sufficient 
for thirty-five covers. 



NO. 6.— SNAPPER SOUP A LA BOOTHBY. 
To one pint of Royal sauce, add three quarts of 
consomme, one pint of Madeira wine, one pint of 
snapper meat, six hard boiled eggs, chopped fine, 
one teaspoonful of fine chopped parslej , salt and 
pepper to taste. Serve the same as snapper a la 



26 300 WAYS TO COOK 

Maryland. This will be sirfficient for thirty 
covers. « 



NO. 7.— SNAPPER SOUP A LA CREAM. 
To one pint of Royal sauce, add three quarts of 
sweet cream, one pint of white wine, snapper 
meat, eggs, parsle>' and seasoning same as in re- 
ceipt No. 6. Heat over a quick fire and SQrve the 
same as snapper a la Maryland. This will be suf- 
ficient for thirty covers. 



NO. 8.— SNAPPER SOUP A L ESPAGNOLE, 
To two quarts of Espagnole add one pint of con- 
somme and one pint of claret, snapper meat, eggs, 
parsley and seasoning the same as in receipt No. 
6. Heat quickly and serve immediately. Service 
the same as in Receipt No. G. This will be suffi- 
cient for thirty covers. 



NO. 9.— STEVVED SNAPPER A LA BOOTHBY. 
Place one quart of snapper dressing in a tin-lined 
copper or block tin saute pan, one pint of sweet 
cream, a wine glass of sherry and brandy mixed, 
one pint of snapper meat, snapper eggs and liver. 
Heat thoroughly and serve immediately. The 
above is sufficient for ten covers. 



NO. 10.— STEWED SNAPPER A LA MARYLAND. 

Proceed exactly as in Receipt No. 9, Snapper a 
la Boothby, except you use consomme instead of 
cream. 



NO. II.— STEWED SNAPPER A LA CREAM. 
Melt two ounces of butter in a tin-lined sauce 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 27 



pan and add two tablespoonfuls of flour, smooth 
out with small egg-whip and cook five minutes, 
stirring with egg-whip continuously : then add 
without removing sauce pan from the fire, one 
pmt of sweet cream, stirring continuously for ten 
minutes, and season with salt and pepper and 
ground mace to taste ; add one pint of snapper 
meat, eggs and liver. Serve at once. 



NO. 12— STEWED SNAPPER A LA ROYAL. 
To one quart of heavy Royal sauce, add three 
pints of sweet cream, one pint of sherry and Ma- 
deira wine, one quart of snapper meat, eggs and 
livers. Heat quickly and serve as soon as hot in 
individual silver tureens or fine china soup plates. 
The above is sufficient for thirty five covers. 



NO 13.— SNAPPER PATTL 
Take pufi" paste shells and heat' hot in a quick 
oven. Fill with stewed snapper and serve. 



NO. 14 —SNAPPER CROQUETTES 
A LA BORDELAISE. 
Chop fine one-half pint of white meat of snap- 
per, two sweetbreads, twelve mushrooms and one- 
half teaspoonf ul of chopped parsley ; mix well in 
one pint of ordinary croquette rue and season 
with red pepper and salt to taste. Roll out any 
shape that may be desired. Fry in boiling lard 
or olive oil. When ready to use serve with Ma- 
deira, Royal or Imperial sauce. 



28 300 WAYS TO COOK 



OYSTEIiS. 



NO. I.— KINDS OF OYSTERS MOST EASILY 
SECURED AND MOSTLY DESIRED. 

Saddle Rocks, Kockaways, Lynn Haven Bays, 
Shrewsburys, Blue Points, Cherry Stones, Chin- 
coteagues and Oak Creeks. 



NO. 2.— HOW TO SERVE RAW 
On half shell, (deep or flat) according to fancy. 
Place the oyster, shell down, on a bank or cone 
of shaved or fine tracked ice. Serve with lemon 
and bleached c6lery. Do not commit the common 
error of putting cracked ice on top of the oyster. 



NO. 3.— OYSTER BROTH. 
Pour whatever quantity of oyster liquor that 
you wish to prepare in a tin-lined sauce pan or 
pot and place over a quick fire. As soon as it 
starts to boil, begin to take the scum off as fast 
as it appears on the surface. After boiling stead- 
ily for ten minutes, for every quart oyster liquor, 
add a small bunch of parsley, a pinch of red pep- 
per, a pinch of salt, three whole cloves, three 
whole allspice, and four drops of celery essence ; 
boil one-half hour and strain through flannel or 
three thicknesses of cheese cloth. If served hot 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 29 

add one-half ounce of sweet butter to each pint 
used. If served cold, place in stone or china ves- 
sel in an even temperature. Will keep sweet and 
pure almost indefinitely. 



NO. 4— OYSTER SOUP. 

Melt four ounces of butter in a tin-lined sauce 
pan or pot ; add one medium sized onion grated, 
four ounces of dry flour, a small pinch of ground 
mace, one-half teaspoonful of celery salt, a pinch 
of red pepper, cook slowly until all has turned a 
light brown ; add two quarts of oyster liquor that 
has been boiled and strained and stir well, one 
quart of sweet cream, one hundred small blanched 
oysters and one tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 
Serve as soon as finished and do not add cream, 
oysters or parsley until you are ready to serve. 
The portions given in this receipt is for five quarts 
of soup, which is sufficient for twenty -five covers, 
four oysters to the plate. 



NO. 5.— PUREE OF OYSTERS. 

Puree of oysters is made exactly like oj^ster 
soup, except that ycu use six ounces of flour in- 
stead of four, and you grind the oysters (any 
kind) fine and mash them thoroughly in the oys- 
ter soup. Press the whole through a pure sieve 
and serve at once over croutons of bread. 



NO. 6.— BISQUE OF OYSTERS. 

Bisque of oysters is a puree with the ground 
oysters left in and one pint of white wine added. 



30 300 WAYS TO COOK 

NO. 7.— DRY PAN OF OYSTERS. 
Place eight, ten or twelve strained prime oys- 
ters in a tin-lined copper or block tin saute pan 
with one ounce of sweet butter, light dust of red 
pepper, a pinch of celery salt, and cook over an 
open fire one minute ; turn oysters and cook one 
minute longer and serve it in a hot dish or indi- 
vidual tureen. It can be cooked and served also 
in a chafing dish with quantities of ingredients 
the same. 



N. B. — The cooking of anything can be greatly 
improved by the use of the chafing dish instead 
of the saute pan in connection with any receipt 
where the latter is mentioned. 



NO. 8.— WET PAN OF OYSTERS. 
Prepare the same as diy pan, except you use 
some oyster liquor with the oysters instead of 
strained oysters. 



NO. 9 —BOX PAN. 
Prepare the same as Receipt No. 8 with oysters 
opened in the presence of the person to whom it 
is to be served. 



NO. 10.— PAN A LA CROUTON. 
Prepare the same as Receipt No. 9, and serve 
in a deep dish, silver or china, over puff paste 
crouton. 



NO. II.— PAN A LA COLBERT. 
Prepare the same as No. 10, except add one- 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 3 1 



fourth of a wine glass of sherry and one-half of 
a hard boiled egg, chopped fine. Serve quick. 



NO. 12.— PAN A LA GERMAIN. 
Wet panned oysters with six or eight sprigs of 
chives, chopped fine and cooked with oysters. 
Serve with thin sliced toasted bread. 



NO. 13.— PANNED A LA BRETON. 
Wet pan with blanched chopped celery and 
petite scallops. When ready to serve add two 
tablespoonfuls of sherry to each portion. 



NO. 14.— PANNED 0YSTP:RS WITH OYSTER CRABS. 
Wet pan with oyster crabs, twenty-four to 
the portion. Drop the crabs alive (be sure that 
they are alive) in the pan for one half minute be- 
fore removing from the fire. 



Note. — All styles of panned or stewed oysters 
shou'd be cooked over an open fire or live steam, 
because they should start to cook the moment the 
heat strikes the pan or chafing dish, and continue 
at a forced rate until finished. 



NO. 15.— BROILED OYSTERS A LA ROOTHBY. 

Grease with butter a thoroughly heated smooth 
iron or soap-stcne gridiron, drain oysters 
through a collander, the largest that can be se- 
cured. Saddle Rock or Rockaways are the best 
for broiling. Place them on the griddle one-half 
inch apart, when brown turn and brown reverse 
side : turn only once Serve on puff paste crou- 



32 300 WAYS TO COOK 



tons or toast, and season with red pepper, salt 
and a few drops of L. and P. Sauce in melted but- 
ter pour over oysters. Decorate with lemon 
and water-cress or whole parsley. From three to 
six oysters is a portion, according to what the 
occasion may be. 



NO. i6.— BROILED OYSTERS A LA MARYLAND. 

The process is the same as for a la Boothby, 
with the addition of two slices of thin braised 
bacon served with each portion. Substitute cream 
sauce for melted butter and garnish with petite 
paste or toast croutons and chopped parsley. 



NO. 17.— BROILED OYSTERS A LA MADEIRA. 

Proceed the same as for broiled oysters a la 
Boothby. Serve with Madeira sauce instead of 
melted butter. 



NO. 18.— BROILED A L ESPAGNOLE. 
Prepare the same as you would for Broiled Oys- 
ters a la Boothby. Serve with Spanish sauce. 



NO 19.— BROILED OYSTERS, BALTIMORE STYLE. 
Place the oysters one-half inch apart on a gril- 
ling iron that has been well greased with olive 
oil, and place over a strong open hard coal or 
charcoal fire ; brown both sides and serve a la 
Boothby. 



NO. 20. — BROILED OYSTERS, NEW YORK STYLE. 

Lift oysters, medium size, out of oyster liquor 

and roll them in green bread crumbs and broil a 

la Boothby. Serve with melted butter, oyster or 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 33 



celery sauce. Garnish with lemon or water-cress. 



NO. 21.— BROILED OYSTERS A LA DELMONICO. 
Prepare the same as for broiled oysters a la 
Boothby. Serve with sauce a la Delmonico. 



NO. 22 — BROILED OYSTERS A LA ROYAL. 
Prepare the same as for a la Boothby. Serve 
with sauce Roval. 



NO. 23.— BROILED OYSTERS A LA CREAM. 
Prepare the same as for broiled oysters a la 
Boothby. Serve with cream sauce. 



NO. 24.— BROILED OYSTERS A LA BRETON. 
Detach the eye (or what is commonly called the 
heart of the oyster) from the body of the oyster 
called tenderloin of oyster). Broil a la Boothby. 
Place the oysters on croutons of toasted bread. 
As you take them from the broiling iron, add 
blanched chopped celery, petite scallops and 
sliced truffles to Royal sauce— one tablespoonful 
of the ingredients to one-half gill of Royal sauce 
for each portion desired. Heat hot and pour over 
oysters. Garnish with chopped parsley. 



NO. 25.— BROILED OYSTERS WITH CELERY SAUCE. 

Prepare the same as for broiled oysters a la 

Boothby. Serve with celery sauce. Garnish with 

diamond-shaped croutons and chopped parsley. 



NO. 26.— BROILED OYSTERS GARNISHED 
WITH OYSTER CRABS. 
Broil the oysters a la Boothby, and garnish 



34 300 WAYS TO COOK 



with oyster crabs, sauted in butter and chopped 
chervil. 



NO. 27.— BROILED OYSTERS A LA DIABLE. 
Prepare the same as for broiled oysters a la 
Boothby. Serve with Devil sauce. 



NO. 28.— BROILED OYSTERS A LA RHINE. 
Prepare the same as for broiled oysters a la 
Boothby. Serve with white wine sauce. Garnish 
with parsley and fine chopped hard boiled eggs. 



NO. 29. -BROILED OYSTERS A LA BRENNON. 

Place in a saute pan or chafing dish one ounce 
of butter, two tablespoonfuls of chopped celery, 
one tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms and one 
tablespoonful of Chili sauce. Cook gently ten or 
twelve minutes, stirring often ; then add one gill 
of brown sauce, twenty-four oyster crabs (live 
crabs) and one gill of sherry. Garnish the same 
as for broiled oysters a la Boothby with the above. 
Serve on toast. The above quantity is given for 
four portions. 



NO. 30.— BROILED IN BREAD CRUMBS. 
Prepare the same as for New York style (plain). 



NO. 31.— BROILED OYSTERS IN CRACKER DUST. 
Place oysters, medium size, without draining, 
in cracker dust, and broil a la Boothby, and serve 
with a cream of oysters or celery sauce. 



NO. 32.— BROILED OYSTERS, BOSTON STYLE. 
Single, dipped in green bread crumbs ; broil a 
la Boothby, and serve with tomato sauce. 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 



35 



NO. 33-BROILED OYSTERS A L' IMPERIAL. 
Prepare the same as for broiled a la Boothby or 
Baltimore style, and serve with Imperial sauce. 
Garnish with crescent shaped paste croutons and 
chopped parsley. 

NO. 34._FARCI OF OYSTERS. 
Chop fine fifty oysters, cullins, four blanched 
sweetbreads, four hard boiled eggs, twelve mush- 
rooms, one teaspoonful of fine parsley, one tea- 
spoonful of sweet marjoram, a pinch of celery 
salt, a pinch of white pepper, a dust of grated 
nutmeg, one-fourth pound of green bread crumbs, 
one-half pint of sweet cream, one-half pint of new 
oyster juice, two ounces of melted butter. Mix 
thoroughly with a fork or wooden spoon. Fill one 
dozen of thoroughly cleaned medium-sized oyster 
shells with the above ingredients, each an inch 
above the top edge of the shell ; dust with green 
bread crumbs and pour a little melted butter over 
the top. Place in the oven and brown to a golden 
hue. It usually takes from twenty to twenty-five 
minutes. Serve quickly on a napkin or lace paper 
mat covered plates. Serve bleached celery or cel- 
ery salad with Farci of Oysters. 

Note.— The above is a most elegant course for 
the service of oysters if prepared according to the 
receipt in every detail, and it is known to but few 
chefs. 

NO. 35. -TRIPE AND OYSTERS SAUTE 
A LA NEWBURG. 
Take two ounces of thoroughly cooked honey 



36 ' 300 WAYS TO COOK 



comb tripe, cut it in thin narrow strips or one- 
half inch blocks, and place it in a saute pan or 
chafing dish with six medium-sized or small oys- 
ters slightly blanched, and one gill of Newburg 
sauce. Heat three or four minutes and serve in 
hot individual silver tureen or small soup plate. 

NO. 36.— TRIPE AND OYSTERS, SAUTE 
DELMONICO. 
Prepare the same as Receipt No. 35. Use Del- 
monico sauce instead of Newburg. 

NO. 37.— TRIPE AND OYSTERS A LA RHINE. 
Prepare the same as Receipt No. 35. U^e white 
wine sauce instead of Newburg. 

NO. 38.— TRIPE AND OYSTERS SAUTE 
A LA BOOTH BY. 
Proceed the same as in Receipt No. 35. Use 
Royal sauce instead of Newburg, Garnish with 
chopped parsley. 



NO. 39 —OYSTER FRITTERS. 
Chop fine twenty-five oysters ; stir six whipped 
eggs in two pounds of sifted flour, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper, two ounces of 
melted butter, one pint of sweet cream, one tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley and two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder ; add oysters and mix well to- 
gether. Cook in one-half inch of lard in a shal- 
low braising or frying pan. Turn once, only. 
Cook light brown. Place fritters on a drainer 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 37 

or cloth for one-half minute or so before serving. 
The above will make twelve portions. 

NO. 40.— PAN CAKES. 
Chop oysters the same as for oyster fritters, 
add to oysters one pound of sifted flour, the yolks 
of three eggs, one pint of sweet cream, one ounce 
of melted butter, salt and pepper to taste, one- 
half teaspoonful of chopped parsley and one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Mix well and cook 
in braising pan or on a gridiron, butter greased ; 
turn only once. The above quantity will make 
twenty -four pan cakes. 

NO 41— OYSTER OMELET. 
Chop from six to eight blanched oysters, add 
one-half gill of heavy cream sauce to oysters. 
Heat and All three egg plain omelet, with the 
oysters ; roll the omelet and place on a platter 
and pour balance of oysters and sauce around the 
omelet. Garnish with chopped parsley and serve 
quickly. 

NO. 42.— MINCED OYSTERS, SCRAMBLED 
WITH EGGS. 
Mince four fresh opened prime, well dried oys- 
ters, whip them up with three fresh laid eggs, 
season to taste with salt and white pepper, pour 
them into a hot butter greased braising pan. 
Cook one and one-half minutes and stir with a 
fork continuously. Serve on hot buttered toast 
as soon as dished. The above is one portion. 



38 300 WAYS TO COOK 

NO. 43.— OYSTERS EN TIMBAL. 
For each portion to be served use one shell 
(course service) otherwise two shells. Make shells 
hot and place on lace paper mats or in the folds 
of a napkin. Make a saute of oysters (five oys- 
ters to the portion, medium size) a la Royal or a 
la Newburg, using either Royal or ^STewburg 
sauce. (See list of sauces.) Fill shells and serve 
quickly, because timbal shells if properly made, 
are so delicate that they begin to melt in three or 
four minutes after being filled. Garnish with 
fine chopped parsley or truffles. 

NO. 44.— STEAMED OYSTERS IN SHELL. 
Place the oysters, the prime of whatever kind 
you may select, (any one of the following kinds 
are preferable for steaming or roasting) : Saddle 
Rocks, Rockaways, Shrewsburys or Lynn Hav- 
ens. After thoroughly washing the shells in a 
wire basket or collander, place them in a steam 
chest and fasten tight and steam until shells part 
and lips of oysters curl. If served on the half 
shell, throw off top shell and serve on the deep 
shell, so as to retain the liquor and aroma. If 
served out of the shell, sers^e on buttered toast 
with bleached celery and lemon. 



Note. — In the absence of live steam, place the 
collander containing the oysters over a pot of 
boiling water, closed tight, to prevent the es- 
cape of steam. 

NO. 45.— ROAST OYSTERS IN SHELL. 
Place the oysters in an old roast pan and put 



AND SERVE SHELI, FISH. 



39 



them in a hot oven and let them remain until the 
shells part and the lips of the oysters curl. It 
usually takes from twenty to twenty-five minutes 
if the oven is very hot. If the oven is not very 
hot, you will spoil the oysters before the shells 
part. Serve on toast with melted butter or sauce 
Maitre d' Hote and bleached celery, 

NO. 46.-MINCED OYSTERS A LA CROUTON. 
Hash thirty well drained oysters, cullings will 
do, unless you wish to use a preferred kind. 
Place them in a saute pan or chafing dish with 
two ounces of butter and one gill of hashed cel- 
ery ; braise five or six minutes and put two tea- 
spoonfuls of corn starch in one-half pint of sweet 
cream and the yolks of two eggs ; whip well and 
pour in oysters, stirring with a fork or a small 
wooden spoon continuously for three minutes. 
Serve on top of diamond-shaped, puff paste or 
toasted bread croutons. Garnish with chopped 
parsley. 



NO. 47— OYSTERS A LA GETZ. 
French fried oysters fried in butter. Serve on 
toast with Maitre d' Hote sauce. 



NO. 48.— OYSTER PATTI A LA CREAM. 
Braise from five to ten oysters. Drain and add 
one gill of cream sauce, a pinch of chopped pars- 
ley. Fill hot puff paste patti shells and serve 
with celer}^ 



NO. 49 -OYSTER PATTI A LA ROYAL. 
Proceed the same as for Oyster Patti a la 



40 300 WAYS TO COOK 

Cream, only use Royal sauce instead of cream. 
Garnish with chopped truffles. 



NO. 50.— VOL AU VENTS OF OYSTERS. 
Prepare the same as for Patties. Fill petite vol 
au vent shells. Vol au vents of oysters may be 
made a la cream, a la Royal, a la Newburg, a la 
Delmonico, a la Rhine, a la Madeira or a 1 Imper- 
ial by blanching the oysters and using the sauce, 
to correspond with the same. 



NO. 51.— OYSTER STEW A LA BOOTHBY. 
Place twelve A No. 1 prime oysters in a tin- 
lined copper or block-tin saute pan or chafing 
dish with one ounce of the best creamery butter, 
a pinch of celery salt and a light sprinkle of red 
pepper ; saute two minutes over an open fire suf- 
ficiently hot to start to cook the moment the pan 
touches the heat. Turn or toss oysters over once 
aiid add one and one-half gills of milk and cream 
mixed. Cook one minute longer and serve 
quickly. 

NO. 52.— OYSTER STEW WITH CELERY. 
Proceed the same as for Oyster Stew a la 
Boothby, with two tablespoonfuls of chopped 
celery (blanched) added when ready to serve. 

NO. 53.— BOX STEW. 
Proceed the same as for Oyster Stew a la 
Boothby, with oysters opened especially for said 
stew. 



Note.— The above is strictly a Cafe stew. 



AND SERVE SHELL I^ISH. 41 



NO. 54.— OYSTER STEW WITH TRUFFLES. 
Proceed the same as for Oyster Stew a la 
Boothby, with tliin sliced truffles added when 
ready to serve. 



NO. 55. -OYSTER STEW WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Proceed the same as for Oyster Stew a la 
Boothby, with sliced button mushrooms added 
when ready to serve. 



NO. 56.— OYSTER STEW A LA DIPLOMAT. 
Proceed the same as for Oyster Stew a la 
Boothby, with one tablespoonful of chopped hard 
boiled eggs, one tablespoonful of chopped celery 
(blanched) and one teaspoonful of capers added 
at the same time milk and cream is put in. 



NO. 57.— OYSTER STEW WITH OYSTER CRABS. 
Proceed the same as for Oyster Stew a la 
Boothby, with twenty-four live oyster crabs 
dropped in the pan or chafing dish just before the 
milk and cream is added. 



NO. 58.— OYSTER STEW A LA CREAM. 
Proceed the same as for Oyster Stew a la 
Boothby, made with pure cream. 



NO. 59 —OYSTER STEW A LA CREAM 
WITH CELERY. 

Proceed the same as for Cream Stew a la 
Boothby, with two tablespoonfuls of celery 
(blanched). 



NO. 60.— OYSTER STEW A h^ CREAM 
WITH MUSHROOMS. 
Proceed the same as for Cream Stew a la 



42 300 WAYS TO -COOK 

Boothby, with two tablespoonfuls of sliced but- 
ton mushrooms. 



NO. 6i.— CREAM OYSTER STEW WITH CRABS. 

Proceed the same as for Cream Stew a la 
Boothby with Oyster Crabs. Drop twenty-four 
live crabs in a pan or chafing dish just before ad- 
ding the cream. 



NO. 62.— CREAM OYSTER STEW WITH TRUFFLES. 
Proceed the same as for Cream Stew a la 
Boothby, with one-half dessertspoonful of thin 
sliced truffles added when ready to serve. 



NO. 63.— CREAM OYSTER STEW A LA ROYAL. 

Proceed the same as for Cream Stew a la 
Boothby, with the yolk of one egg whipped in 
one-half gill of Madeira wine and added to stew 
one half minute before removing from the fire. 
Serve quickly after dishing. 



NO. 64.~CREAM OYSTER STEW A L' IMPERIAL. 

Same as Oyster Stew a 1' Imperial, except that 
you use all cream instead of milk and cream 
mixed. 



NO. 65.— RISSOLS OF OYSTERS. 
Take the eyes (or, what is commonly called, 
the hearts) out of thirty-six medium sized oysters 
and cut each in half; place them in a saute pan 
with two ounces butter pinch celery salt, dust 
white pepper, one teaspoonful fine chopped pars- 
ley, two sweetbreads chopped fine, and one gill 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 43 

of cream; saute briskly four or five minutes, add 
two ounces of green bread crumbs. Mix well 
together and spread on large platter to cool. Take 
one and a-half pounds of puff paste dough and 
divide it in twelve equal parts, roll each piece of 
dough wafer thin, dampen the edges with whip- 
ped egg-yolks and milk; place two full table- 
spoonfuls of the prepared oysters in the center 
of each piece of rolled dough; raise the edges of 
the dough farthest from you with the fingers of 
both hands and gently bring it toward you over 
the top of the oysters, covering them entirely, 
press the edges all around with the thumbs 
so that they will hold well together, with a 
patti or biscuit cutter trim the edges so as to 
form a half moon or crescent shape; fry in hot 
new lard or olive; butter same as a croquette, 
place in a tin drainer or dry towel one minute 
•and you have an oyster rissol, the appearance 
and taste of which will repay you for the trouble 
of producing. Serve with cream of oyster or 
Madeira or Bordelaise sauce. 



NO. 66— OYSTERS EN COQUELLE. 
Place in a coquelle shell, five or six medium 
sized raw oysters one tablespoonful bechamel 
sauce on top of oysters, dust with green bread 
crumbs, pepper, salt, ground mace and melted 
butter; put in hot oven and brown. Serve in the 
shells placed in the folds of a napkin. Serve 
with bleached celery. 



44 500 WAYS TO. COOK 

NO. 67.— ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. 
Grease well with butter an augratine dish. 
(individual dish for one portion^ and cover the 
bottom with cracker dust: then cover the cracker 
dust with oysters, spread out the thickness of 
one oyster only: season with celery salt, red 
pepper, ground nutmeg, and chopped parsley: 
repeat the layer of cracker dust and oysters three 
or four times according to the depth of your 
dish. Build one-half inch above the top of your 
dish so that it will be pleasing to the eye when 
served. Begin and tinish the layers with cracker 
dust: place in a moderately hot oven and cook, 
it requires from 20 minutes to one-half hour It 
will be nicely cooked when the top is a golden 
brown all over. 



NO. 6S._ESCALL0PED OYSTERS 
MAITRE D' HOTE. 

Escalloped Oysters. Maitre d" Hote. are pre- 
pared and cooked the same as Escalloped. Balti- 
more style, except that you use stale baker's or 
yeast bread with all of the crust taken olf. and 
cut in one- half inch pieces. This style is prefer- 
erable. being much easier to digest. 



NO. 69— OYSTERS EN LOAE. 
Place twelve prime oysters in a saute pan with 
two ounces of butter, three tablespoonfuls of 
chopped celery, one tablespoonful chopped mush- 
rooms and one teaspoonful fine chopped parsley, 
pepper and salt: saute four or five minutes: place 
pan where it will keep hot. without cooking, cut 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 45 

off both ends of loaf Vienna bread four inches 
long; scrape all of the crumbs out of both ends, 
bvown in hot lard or olive butter; lay on a drain- 
er or dry towel one minute. A.dd one ounce of 
green bread crumbs and one-half gill port wine 
to oysters, heat very hot, fill all of the oysters 
into one end of the bread, push the empty end 
over the filled end, fold in the meshes of a nap- 
kin and serve to two persons, with celery and 
watercress. 



NoTE.^Pettie oyster loaf for individual service 
or portion is prepared and served in the same 
manner. Use French sandwich or Vienna rolls 
instead of loaf bread. 



NO. 70— CANOPY OF OYSTERS. 
Cut from a loaf or loaves of sandwich bread as 
many slices one-half inch thick as you have 
covers laid for; cut with a round or oval-shaped 
Patti, cake or biscuit cutter, 'from the center 
of each slice of bread; cover the whole base of 
the form of bread with a fricandeau of oyster 
and build from base up two and-a-half inch 
cone-shaped pyramid of oyster fricandeau, dust 
with green bread crumbs; sprinkle with butter 
and brown in quick oven. Serve with Cardi- 
nal oyster sauce. 



NO. 71.— OYSTERS EN BROCHETTE. 
Lay eight large raw oysters between the folds 
of a clean, dry, coarse towel, three or four 



46 300 WAYS To tOOK 

minutes (do not press them). Cut eight Is x 1 
inch pieces from Irish bacon; run a long, smooth 
white skewer through the bacon and oysters 
alternately, so as to have the bacon first and last 
on the skewer; dust the oysters and bacon thor- 
oughly with flour and fry in moderate hot lard, 
scallop or frill a lemon in halves, place on half 
(frill edge turned out) on a long silver skewer 
slip the oysters and bacon when cooked from the 
wooden skewer to the silver skewer. Place the 
other half frilled lemon on end of skewer, place 
the oyster brochette, which you now have, on a 
crouton of bread and serve with a Bordelaise or 
Devil sauce. 



NO. 72.— OYSTERS AU GRATIN, A L' ITALIENNE. 
Butter grease an au gratin dish and cover bot- 
tom with cream or puree of oysters. Place 
twelve medium sized oysters in the dish, season, 
cover with puree of oysters, dust well with green 
bread crumbs and grated American or Swiss 
cheese, sprinkle with butter, place in hot oven, 
when nicely brown all over take out and serve 
quickly, it usually requires about twenty minutes, 
garnish with chopped parsley. 



NO. 73 —OYSTERS A LA BORDELAISE. 
Chop (not fine) forty-eight drained raw oysters, 
put them in a china bowl or some kind of deep 
tin-lined vessel, add to the oysters the yolks of 
six raw eggs, two teaspoonfuls sweet marjoram, 
two tablespoonfuls Lea and Perrin Sauce, one- 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 47 

half of a small bunch of green cherville, salt, 
pepper (very little pepper), one cup of flour, mix 
well, put in cold place six to twelve hours, when 
ready tc use roll out barrel shape (two to the 
order or portion) in flour, drop in boiling oyster 
liquor and water mixed, cook ten minutes Serve 
on toast with Bordelaise sauce. 



NO. 74.— OYSTER FRAPPE IN SHELL. 
The simplest and cleanest way to frappe an 
oyster is in an ice cream freezer. To frappe 
in the shell take the top shell off on the oyster, 
wrap the oyster in the deep shell in heavy 
brown paper and place them in an ice cream can 
one on top of the other, ice the can up, use salt 
freely, put aside until ready to use; it ordinarily 
takes about three hours, the longer they stand 
the better, do not disturb until ready to use. 
Frappe oysters out of the shell in the same man- 
ner, wrapped in oiled paper. 



NO. 75.— SPICED OYSTERS. 
Spiced oysters are good every season of the 
year, and in any climate if properly spiced. 
Put whatever quantity of oysters you are going 
to spice, liquor and all in a tin-lined copper pot, 
and place on a brisk open fire, as soon as it comes 
to a good strong boil, remove from the fire and 
strain all of the liquor, wash the oysters with 
scalding hot water, through collander, refresh 
with cold water and put in cool place; put oyster 
liquor back over brisk fire (be sure to have 



48 300 WAYS TO COOK 

enough liquid to cover whatever quantity of 
oysters you have) to every quart of oyster liquor 
add one half-pint of vinegar, one-quarter spoon- 
ful celery salt, one dessertspoonful Lea and Per- 
rin's sauce, teaspoonful chopped onion, cook and 
skin, continuously thirty to forty minutes (re- 
member, boil strongly and steadily), strain 
through flannel or three thickness of cheese cloth 
and pour over the oysters w^hile hot. Seal air- 
tight. 



NO. 76 —DEVILLED IN SHELL. 

Scrub a dozen large medium sized oyster she'ls 
with a new stiff scrub brush, wash thoroughly 
inside and out and place them in a hot place and 
dry them quickly. 

Chop fifty oysters, seconds or thirds (not very 
fine) put three ounces of butter in tin-lined 
copper or block tin saute pan, one small onion 
three tablespoonfuls dry flour; cook to light 
brown ; add one cupful oyster liquor and one 
cup sweet cream; cook eight minutes over hot 
fire, stir continuously with wooden spoon, rea- 
son with celery salt, white pepper to taste, add 
two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley, two table- 
spoonfuls of Chili sauce, yolks of four eggs, and 
chopped oysters; cook two minutes, spread out 
on large china dish and cool thoroughly; when 
ready to use fill the shells about one-half inch 
above the edges of the shells ; bread same as 
croquettes, and fry in hot lard or olive oil. 
Serve in the folds of a napkin with bleached 
celerv. 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH- 49 

NO. 77.— DEVILED OYSTERS, CLUB HOUSE STYLE. 
Braise the oysters (primes) in butter and serve 
them on toast or puff paste croutons, w^ith devil 
sauce, from three to six, to the portion. Serve 
v^ith bleached celery or Saratoga chips. 



NO. 78.— OYSTER CROQUETTES. 
Place two ounces of butter in a tin lined cop- 
per or iron pot, with one small hashed onion, 
cook light brown, add one-half cup of dry flour, 
cook nine minutes, add one pint of sweet cream, 
(stir continuously), celerj' salt and red pepper to 
taste; yolks of four eggs, one teaspoonful of 
fine chopped parsley and one-fourth teaspoonful 
of ground or grated nutmeg; add fifty chopped 
blanched oysters. Spread out on a dish to cool; 
when ready to use form, bread and fry same as 
chicken croquettes. This receipt is for twenty- 
four portions. 



NO. 79.— OYSTER CUTLETS. 
Made exactly the same as oyster croquettes. 
Shape as nearly as possible like the top or flat 
shell of an oyster, bread in green crumbs, fry and 
serve with an oyster or cream sauce. 



NO. 80.— FRIED OYSTERS, A LA BOOTHS Y. 
Place a colander in a pan or vessel of any kind 
larger than the colander (in order to save the 
oyster liquor) and place one hundred medium 
sized plump oysters in the colander and leave 
them to drain, (never dry them between the folds 
of a cloth, as is frequently done by housekeepers), 



50 300 WAYS Tjo cook 

whilst you proceed to make oyster batter in the 
following manner ; Break six fresh eggs in a 
deep tin vessel or bowl which holds about three 
or four pints ; add a full tablespoonful of celery 
salt, one-fourth teaspoonful red pepper, one- 
eighth teaspoonful dry ground mace, and two 
tablespoonfuls dregless Lea and Perrin sauce ; 
whip energetically for about two minutes, add 
one-half pint of strained oyster liquor and one 
quart of sweet milk ; whip well for about two 
minutes. For every additional one hundred 
oysters reduce ingredients about one-third, ex- 
cept the eggs and oyster liquor. Dry the oysters 
in cracker dust lightly, let them lay from fifteen 
to thirty minutes, at least, before laying out, 
then dip them in the batter, one at a time, using 
the thumb and forefinger and not a fork ; bread 
them in green bread crumbs, they are then ready 
to fry. Use new lard or olive oil, enough to float 
the oysters, very hot ; cook a golden brown, 
never darker. 



Note. — In preparing an oyster for frying use 
the forefinger and thumb in handling, catching 
the oyster by the eye only, and in drying and 
breading use the palm of the hand only, and do 
not squeeze or pat the oyster, if you do you will 
kill it before it reaches the hot fat, and thereby 
spoil the best or poorest oyster that ever grew. 



NO. 8 1. —FRIED OYSTERS A LA MARYLAND. 
Prepare and serve same as fried oysters a la 
Boothby and serve with strips of broiled or 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 51 



braised Irish bacon and cream sauce, chopped 
parsley. 



NO. 82.— FRIED OYSTERS, BALTIMORE STYLE. 
Prepare and serve same as a la Boothby ; use 
all cracker dust instead of dry bread crumbs. 



NO. 83.— FRIED OYSTERS, BOSTON STYLE. 
Prepare and cook same as a la Boothby; serve 
with tomato sauce. 



NO. 84.— FRIED OYSTERS, NEW YORK STYLE. 
Prepare and cook same as a la Boothby; serve 
with celery sauce. 



NO. 85.— TENDERLOIN OF OYSTERS, FRIED. 
Take the eyes out of prime oysters and fry 
same as a la Boothby; serve plain or with tomato, 
cream, or celery sauce. 



NO. 86.— FRENCH FRIED OYSTERS, PLAIN. 
Dip the oysters (prime) in batter, a la Boothby. 
Roll in flour and fry; serve with bleached celery. 



NO. 87.— FRENCH FRIED OYSTERS, A LA BOOTHBY 
Prepare and cook same as French fried, plain; 
serve with sauce Royal. 



NO. 88.— FRENCH FRIED, BOSTON STYLE. 
French fried oysters, plain, served with tomato 
sauce. 



NO. 89.-FRENCH FRIED, WITH BACON. 
French fried, plain, served with bacon. 



52 300 WAYS TO COOK 

NO. 90.— FRENCH FRIED TENDERLOIN OYSTERS, 
TOMATO SAUCE. 
Tenderloin of oysters, French fried, served 
with tomato sauce. 



NO. 91.— FRENCH FRIED A LA CREAM, 
French fried, plain, served on toast with hot 
cream, 



NO. 92.— FRENCH FRIED A LA DIABLE. 
French fried oysters, plain, served with deviled 
sauce on toast. 



NO. 93— FRIZZLED OYSTERS. 
Dry oysters in cracker dust, drop them in bat- 
ter, same as for fried oysters as many as you 
like, at the time, dip them out of batter on a 
strainer and roll in cracker dust and fry. 



NO. 94.— FRICASSEE OYSTERS. 
Braise one dozen oysters in saute pan, with 
one ounce of butter four minutes; add dessert- 
spoonful flour, pinch of celery salt, dust of white 
or red pepper, one-fourth teaspoonful chopped 
parsley, little grated nutmeg; cook three min- 
utes; add one gill of cream, yolk of one egg; 
cook two minutes longer and serve. 



NO. 95.— OYSTERS A LA NEWBURG. 
Blanch twelve oysters in saute pan or chafing 
dish, drain, and add one gill of Newburg Sauce, 
and serve. 



AND SERVE SHELL PISH. 53 

NO. 96 —OYSTERS A LA. DELMONICO. 
Prepare same as for oysters a la Newburg, and 
serve writh Delmonico sauce. 



NO. 97.— OYSTERS A LA POULETTE. 
Prepare same as for oysters a la Newburg, and 
serve w^ith w^hite wine sauce. Place a crouton, 
garnished with hard chopped boiled egg and 
parsley on top of each portion. 



NO. 98.— OYSTER PIE A LA BOOTHBY. 
Blanch one hundred medium sized, or Blue 
Point, oysters ; after which drain thoroughly, 
through a collander, place them in a deep vessel, 
add ten hard boiled eggs, chopped; one-half can 
French mushrooms, chopped ; one-fourth tea- 
spoonful dry ground mace, one teaspoonful fine 
chopped parsley ; one quart of cream sauce. 
Mix all well together and pour in a porcelain- 
lined or block-tin lined pan. Cover with thin 
rolled puff paste dough, and bake in quick oven. 
The above will serve twelve persons, if you wish 
indvidual portions, fill au gratine dishes, cover 
with puff paste dough and cook in quick oven, 
and serve in au gratin dishes, as soon as taken 
from the oven. 



NO. 99.— OYSTER PIE, BALTIMORE STYLE. 

Cover the bottom of an ordinary roast pan, 

8x12, or tin pudding pan, with rich pie dough 

pour one hundred oysters containing about one 

and a-half pints of oyster liquor in pan, one- 



54 300 WAYS TO COOK 

fourth pound of butter over oysters in small bits, 
salt and pepper to taste, chopped parsley over all. 
Cover oysters with same dough as was used for 
bottom of pan, place in a medium hot oven and 
cook slowly; it usually takes one hour to cook 
bottom crust properly. 



NO. 100.— OYSTER PIE, FAMILY STYLE. 
Prepared and served same as oyster pie, Balti- 
more style, except that you cook and thicken the 
oysters before putting them in the pan to be 
covered; also cook Parisienne or diced potatoes 
with the oysters, white potatoes. 



ONE DOLLAR 
PER WEEK. 




DIAMONDS & WATCHES, 

FINEST GOODS. 

If it is not convenient to call, send your ad- 
dress. I will be glad to send salesman to your 
residence at any hour to show goods. 

S. R. WEAVER, 

nSTo. 1103 Clne^stntj.t Stx^^t, 
PHILADELPHIA, PA. 

Salesroom on Second floor, 
Open Saturday Kvening until 7 o'clock. 



Cream Clam Chowder, per quart, 75 cts. 

Clear Green Turtle Soup, " $1.25 

Snapper Soup, " 1.00 

Mock Turtle Soup, " 80 cts. 

(Made to order only.) 



Inimitable Chicken Croquettes a la Cream, 
$4,00 per dozen. 



Chicken Salad a la Capon, per quart, $3.50 
Decorated, $4.00 per quart. 



Any of the above delivered within the city 
limits, or shipped out of town on reasonable 
notice, not otherwise, as I would not fill a hurry 
order of any of the above specialties if I received 
four times the price quoted. 

Address all orders or communications to — 

F. A. CONERTON, Business Manager, 

S. W. Cor. 17th and Bainbridge Streets, 

— OR — 

H. FRANKLYN HALL, 

Chef Boothby Hotel Company, 

1235 Chestnut Street, 

PHILADELPHIA. 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH, 55 



CLAMS. 



NO. I.— DIFFERENT KINDS. 
Bull Nose, Cape Mays, Eastern Shores, Cherry 
Stone, Little Neck and Soft Shell. 



NO. 2.— RAW CLAMS. 
In serving raw clams use either Little Necks 
Cherry Stone or soft shell. They should always 
be served on the half shell, submerged in shaved 
ice (do not put crcked ice on top of the clams). 
Serve sliced lemon or olives with the clams. 



NO. 3— CLAM BROTH. 
Place one quart of clam juice in a tin-lined 
pot, add one quart of cold water, two whole 
allspices, two whole cloves, one bay leaf, top of 
stalk of celery, pinch of white pepper; boil gent- 
ly but continuously; skim as long as any scum 
rises to the top. Strain and serve. The above 
quantity will make nine portions. 



NO. 4— PUREE OF CLAMS. 
Take three quarts of prepared clam broth. 
(Prepared according to receipt No. 3.) Add two 
ounces of butter and thicken with three table- 



56 2>0O WAYS TO COOK 



spoonfuls of mixed cornstarch ; strain and serve 
garnished with chopped parsley and bread, or 
paste, petite croutons. (Fifteen portions.) 



NO 5— BISQUE OF CLAMS. 
Grind or hash thirty large raw clams, place 
them in a tin-lined pot or sauce-pan, with two 
ounces of butter, one quarter pound of bacon, 
one medium sized onion, small bunch of pot 
herbs, and one tablespoonful of Lea and Perrin 
sauce. Cook twenty minutes; add four ounces 
of flour; cook five minutes, add one quart of 
clam broth, and four quarts of water. Cook 
gently one hour. (Blanch fifty tenderloins of 
clams.) Clams with eyes taken out. Grind or 
hash them fine. Strain through puree sieve 
add clams when ready to serve. 



NO. 6,— STEWED CLAMS. 
Place ten medium sized clams in a saute pan, 
with ounce of butter, and dust of white or red 
pepper; put one gill of milk or cream or one-half 
and one-half of each in another saute pan. Place 
both over brisk open fire or gas; cook milk or 
cream one and a half minutes, cook clams three 
minutes, pour milk or cream in clams and cook 
one minute longer. Serve immediately. 



NO. 7.— PANNED CLAMS. 
Panned clams are prepared, cooked and served 
same as stewed, without milk or cream. 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 57 

NO. 8.— CLAMS STEWED IN CRfeAM. 
Follow receipt No, 6, using pure cream instead 
of milk, or milk and cream. 



NO. 9.— CLAMS STEWED IN CREAM WITH CELERY 
Same as receipt No. 8, with the addition of one 
tablespoonful of chopped celery. 



NO. 10.— CLAM CHOWDER, NEW ENGLAND STYLE. 
Dice three pounds of salt pork and fry a light 
brown, be careful not to burn, put aside to cool. 
Chop one hundred hard or soft shell clams fine; 
slice eight medium sized whi'e onions, break in 
large pieces three pounds of large soda crackers. 
Place a ten-quart tin-lined pot on the fire, pour 
half of the fried pork and grease in the pot; line 
the bottom of the pot with crackers on top of 
the pork; then cover the crackers with a part 
of the clams. Cover the clams with a layer of 
sliced onions, cover the onions with sliced raw 
white potatoes, dust lightly with white pepper 
and chopped parsley. Repeat the layers of in- 
gredients mentioned until you have used all of 
the clams. (If directions are carefully followed 
one hundred clams should build three or four 
layers.) Fill the pot with sweet unskimmed 
milk and one-half pound of butter; cut in small 
pieces and distribute over the top of all. Boil 
gently forty-five minutes. When the onions are 
done the chowder is ready to serve. Dish gently. 



NO. II.— CLAM CHOWDER A LA BOOTHBY. 

Wash and drain thoroughly one hundred large 



58 300 WAYS To GOOK 

clams, hash or cut the clams fine, place them in 
a tin-lined twelve quart pot, with one pound of 
diced salt pork and one-half pound of butter; 
cook twenty minutes; add one quart diced white 
onions; cook ten minutes longer; add three quarts 
of hot water and four quarts of diced white 
potatoes ; cook ten minutes longer ; add four 
quarts of hot milk, whip the yolks of six eggs, 
one-quarter pound cornstarch, one-quarter tea- 
spoonful ground mace in one pint of cold milk, 
as soon as the pot comes to a strong boil after 
adding milk, mix in cornstarch thickening, stir- 
ring continuously one and-a-half minutes ; re- 
move immediately from over the dry heat; add 
one-half teacup chopped parsley and serve at 
once, or place the pot in a bambaree or vessel of 
hot water. 

NO. 12— CLAM CHOWDER. HARLEM RIVER STYLE. 
Follow receipt given for clam chowder. New 
England style, with the addition of two quarts 
of raw tomatoes (canned tomatoes are best) to 
every one hundred clams. 



NO. 13.— CLAM BAKE. 
Place fifty clams and two quarts of clam broth 
in the bottom of a large tin-lined pot or new 
wash boiler, place cheese cloth (three thicknesses) 
over clams ; on top of the cheese cloth place a 
layer of white potatoes and one layer of sweet 
potatoes and sliced onions, then a layer of cheese 
cloth same as before; on top of this place a layer 



AKD SERVE SHELI, FISH. 59 

of corn on the cob with one bunch of parsley ; 
another layer of cheese cloth, then a layer of 
spring chicken cut up into quarters ; another 
layer of cheese cloth, then a layer of parboiled 
lobster claws; another layer cheese cloth, then a 
layer of Rock or Sheep-head fish, cut in orders to 
serve, another and last layer of cheese cloth, 
a layer of large fat oj^sters, dust each layer 
lightly with celery salt and white pepper ; cover 
so as to confine all steam in vessel and cook 
gently two hours. When made on the seashore 
use sea weed instead of cheese cloth. Serve in 
courses in the order arranged in the pot or boiler. 
Serve with the following sauce : place one pound 
of butter in a saute pan, one can of French mush- 
rooms chopped fine, one-quarter cup Chili sauce, 
two tablespoonfuls Lea and Perrin sauce, one 
teaspoonful English mustard, one tablespoonful 
chopped parsley, juice of one-half lemon ; cook 
one minute after the butter melts and remove 
from the fire ; serve over each course. 



NO. 14.— DEVILED CLAMS IN SHELL. 
Chop fine fifty large clams, place them in a tin- 
lined saute pan with four ounces of butter, one 
small hashed white onion, one teaspoonful of 
powdered sweet marjoram and three ounces of 
dry flour; cook gently twenty minutes, add one 
quart of cream and yolks of four eggs ; season 
with salt and white pepper. Cook ten minutes 
after which fill into clam shells, bread and fry 
same as croquette. 



6o 300 WAYS TO COOK 

NO. 15.— DEVILED CLAMS, CLUB HOUSE STYLE. 
Detach eyes from clams, saute in butter and 
serve on toast with devil sauce. 



NO. 16.— CLAM CROQUETTES. 
See oyster croquettes, receipt No. 78 in oysters, 
using clams instead of oysters. 



NO. 17.— MINCED CLAMS ON TOAST. 
Grind in a meat cutter eight large or twelve 
small clams, saute them with one ounce of butter 
and pinch of chopped parsley, one tablespoonful 
fine chopped celery, whip yolk of one egg in one 
gill of cream, pour in saute pan with clams; cook 
one and a-half minutes; serve on toast. 



NO. 18.— CLAM FRITTERS. 
Made in the same manner as oyster fritters, 
using clams instead of oysters. (See receipt No. 
39 in oysters.) 



NO. 19.— CLAM PAN CAKES. 
Made in the same manner as oyster pan cakes, 
the only difference being you use clams instead 
of oysters, (See receipt No. 40 in oysters,) 



NO. 20.— PATTI OF CLAMS. 
Made in the same manner as oyster patti, the 
only difference being that you use clams instead 
of oysters. (See receipt for patti in oysters.) 



NO. 21.— FEIED CLAMS. 
Prepared and cooked the same as fried oysters 



ANDSERVE SHELL FISH. 



6l 



a la Boothby. (See receipt for fried oysters a la 
Boothby.) 



NO. 22.— TENDERLOIN OF CLAMS, FRIED. 
Prepared and fried the same as tenderloin of 
oysters, plain. (See receipt for tenderloin of 
oysters, fried.) 

NO. 23.— BROILED CLAMS. 
Prepared, broiled and served in the same man- 
ner as oysters, either a la Boothby or a la Mary- 
land. (See receipts for broiling oysters.) 



NO. 24.— CLAMS EN BROCHETTE. 
Prepare, cook and serve in the same manner as 
oysters en brochette. 

NO. 25.— STEAMED CLAMS. 
Prepare, cook and serve in the same manner as 
steamed oysters. 



NO. 26. -ROAST CLAMS IN SHELL. 
Prepare, cook and serve in the same manner as 
oysters roasted in the shell. 



62 300 WAYS TO. COOK 



LOBSTERS. 

NO. I.— HOW TO SELECT. 
A-No. 1 lobsters are those which measure from 
ten and one-half to fourteen inches, firm and of 
a dark green color. Female lobsters are always 
preferable because of the coral or eggs, and they 
are always fatter. Lobsters of any size are all 
right if properly cooked. Be careful to follow 
directions for cooking. Never use still lobsters 
during the months of April, May, June, July, 
August or September. Live lobsters are best any 
month in the year, but still lobsters are all right 
if frozen to death. 

NO. 2.— HOW TO COOK LOBSTERS. 
For every purpose and manner of preparing 
or serving lobsters, except broiling, lobsters 
should be parboiled or cooked in the shell, either 
boiled or steamed ; if boiled be careful to have 
the water over a fire strong enough to keep water 
boiling, during the placing of the lobster in 
same. Be sure that the water entirely covers 
lobsters; put three ounces of salt in pot to every 
fifty pounds of lobster. If young, boil con- 
tinuously from twenty to twenty-five minutes ; 
if steamed use same quantity of salt spread over 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 63 

top of lobsters, after placing lobsters in steam 
chest or boiler, fasten tight and turn on from 
twenty to forty pounds pressure of steam (not 
less than twenty, nor more than forty pounds 
pressure), steam continuously if young ; twenty 
minutes if old or very heavy lobsters steam from 
thirty to thirty-five minutes ; when done cool 
slowly, and if not ready to use keep in a cool, 
even temperature, if you desire to keep the lob- 
ster meat longer than thirty-six hours. If for 
salad cover it with vinegar, if not for salad cover 
it with melted butter or new lard. 

NO. 3.— PUREE OF LOBSTER. 
Put four quarts of veal or chicken broth in a 
tin-lined pot that holds at least ten quarts or 
more, with all of the stringy and cast aside por- 
tion of lobster you may have in hand, not less 
than one quart, as much more as you have on 
hand. (It is always better to have puree or 
bisque of lobster when you are handling a large 
number of lobsters for some other purpose, as 
you can then make a most rich and elegant puree 
or bisque at a really insignificant cost,) With 
two medium sized white onions cut up one-half 
small carrot, one bunch of parsley, one-half 
bunch of cherville, tops of five or six stalks of 
celery, or ten drops of celery bitters, or extract, 
the head and body of from twelve to twenty-four 
lobsters, two quarts of milk, one-quarter pound 
of butter, cover pot tight and cook gently one 
hour, add one quart of broth and one quart of 



64 300 WAYS TO COOK 

milk, one pinch of mace, salt and red pepper to 
taste, cook gently 2 hours longer with an ordinary 
skimmer remove everything from the broth that 
the skimmer will catch, then push pot over brisk 
fire, whip yolks of ten eggs into one quart sweet 
cream, and one-half cup cornstarch, turn it into 
lobster broth, stirring all the time for three 
minutes; add one quart Madeira, whip in 'well, 
strain through puree sieve or china cap. Serve 
with croutons and crushed dry lobster coral 
(eggs). The above will serve for course service, 
lunch or dinner, thirty-five or forty persons. 

NO. 4— BISQUE OF LOBSTER. 
A bisque of lobster is a puree of lobsters 
complete in every detail as given in receipt No. 
3, with the addition of ground or mortered lobster 
meat when ready to serve and the use of white 
wine instead of Madeira. 

NO. 5.— STEWED LOBSTER, PLAIN. 
For each portion desired place one claw and 
one-half tail of lobster meat in saute pan or chaf- 
ing dish, season with salt and red pepper, cover 
with chicken broth or consomme (chicken broth 
is better). Heat thoroughly, pour off broth and 
cover with cream sauce and serve, garnish with 
chopped parsley and croutons. 



NO. 6. -STEWED LOBSTER, VIRGINIA STYLE. 

For ten covers, course service, place the tail 
and claw meat of five medium sized lobsters in a 
saute pan, cover with chicken or veal broth, add 



AND SERVE SHELL ElSH. 65 

one large white onion diced, one quart Parisienne 
or diamond cut white potatoes, five medium 
sized sweet potatoes, cut four times the size of 
white potatoes, one teaspoonful sweet marjoram, 
two teaspoonfuls chopped parsley ; cook briskly 
twenty-five minutes, add three ounces of butter, 
thicken and serve at once. 



NO. 7.— STEWED, NEW ENGLAND STYLE. 
Prepare and heat the same as in receipt No, 6, 
then add cream sauce and macedoine, serve at 
once. 



NO. 8.— SAUTE LOBSTER A LA ROYAL. 
Saute as many portions of lobster as you wish 
to serve (one-half tail, one claw and one teaspoon- 
ful of lobster fat is a portion) in butter, add 
Royal sauce, garnish with crushed lobster coral 
and serve. 



NO. 9.— SAUTE LOBSTER A L' IMPERIAL. 
Prepare and serve the same as saute lobster a 
la Royal (see receipt No. 8), the only difference 
being that you use Imperial sauce instead of 
Royal. 



NO. 10.— LOBSTER SAUTE A LA RHINE. 
Prepare and serve the same as lobster a 1' Im- 
perial (see receipt No. 9), the only difference 
being that you use white wine sauce instead of 
Imperial. 



NO. IX.— LOBSTER EN TIMBAL, AMERICAN STYLE. 
Prepare a saute of lobster, any style you fancy, 



66 30O WAYS TO COOK 



and 1111 liot timbal shells and serve at once. If 
you use lobster saute a la Royal you will have 
timbals of lobster a la Royal. If you use saute 
of lobster a 1' Imperial, you will have timbals of 
lobstei- a 1' Imperial, (itc. (See page 17, receipt 
No. 13, how to make timbal shells,) 



NO. I2.--FRICASSKH OF LOBSTER. 
Put the lobster meat of the tails and claws of 
three medium sized lobsters in saute pan or 
chafing dish, with two tablespoonfiils fat and 
three ounces of lobster buttei', saute to light 
brown, add two tablespoonfuls dry flour, salt and 
pepper to taste, cook throe minutes, stirring all 
the time, add one (^uait heavy new cream, cook 
four minutes and serve at once, garnish with 
chopped parsley and lobster coral. The above is 
foi' six portions. 



NO. 13.— CURRY OF LOBSTER WITH RICE. 
Place as many portions of lobster as you have 
persons to serve, in saute pan, or chafing dish, 
with half teaspoonful curry sauce, and one table- 
spoonful boiled or steamed ]-ice to the portion, 
heat and serv^e on toast. 



NO. 14.— LOBSTER A LA B0RDI<:LAISE. 
Prepared, cooked niul served the same as 
oysters a la Bordelaise ; the only difference, use 
lobster instead of oysters. (See receipt No. 73 
in oyst(;rs.) 



NO. i5.-lobstj:r stivWei) in cream. 
Cut lobster, meat, tail and claws, in inch blocks, 



AND SHRVK SIIHLL I'ISH. 67 

place in stew pan with new cream over rapid Ixvit: 
open coal tire, gas oi- steam ; season with celery 
salt and red pepper, cook four minutes and serve. 



NO. 16.- PLAIN, BOri.ICD IN SIIKU.. COLD, WITH 
TARTAR SAUCK. 
Take a medium sized lien lobster, nine to 
twelv(; indues long, cut exactly in half down the 
back fi'om tip to tip, detach bla<'k cord in center 
of meat, place on a large coUl ])latter, decorates 
with young watercress and half-scalloped lemon. 
Serve with Tartar sauce on tlie side. 



NO. 17.— PLAIN B0ILP:D IN SHIvLL, VINAIGRl'TTIC 
SAUCIC 
J'repa,r(^, d(H;orat(^ and serve tlu; same as in re- 
ceipt No, K), vinaigrotto sauce on tlie sidci. 

NO. IS.— PLAIN BOILlvD, IN SIIlvLL, COLD, WITH 
CHILI SAUCK. 
Prepare, decorate ami serve th(> same as in i-e- 
ceipt No. 1(). Chili saucu; on the side. 



NO. 19.--PLAIN boilp:d lobstj':r in vSiiicll, cold, 

WITH MAVONNALSlv DRICSSINCL 
Prepare, decorate aiul serve the same as in re- 
ceipt No. 10. Serve mayonnaise on th(^ side. 

NO. 20.— PLAIN BOILLI) L0BSTP;R, HOT, WITH 
SAUCK PIQUANT. 
Prepare, decorate and swi-ve same as in receipt 
No. 10, hot instead of cold. Serve sauce piquant 
on the side. 



68 300 WAYS TO COOK 

NO. 21.— PLAIN BOILED LOBSTER, HOT, WITH 
SAUCE MAITRE D' HOTE. 

Prepare, decorate and serve the same as in re- 
ceipt No, 16, hot instead of cold. Serve sauce 
Maitre d' Hote on the side. 



NO. 22.— PLAIN BOILED LOBSTER, HOT, WITH 
SAUCE BERNAISE. 

Prepare, decorate and serve the same as in 
receipt No. 16, hot instead of cold. Serve Ber- 
naise sauce on the side. 



NO. 23.— DEVILED LOBSTER IN THE SHELL. 
Prepare, cook and serve the same as deviled 
oysters in the shell; use lobster instead of oysters. 
(See receipt No. 75 in oysters.) 



NO. 24.— DEVILED LOBSTER, CLUB HOUSE STYLE. 

Prepare, cook and serve in the same manner as 

deviled oysters, club house style; use lobster 

instead of oysters. (See receipt No. 77, oysters.) 



' NO. 25.— LOBSTER BUTTER. 
Take sufficient white string lobster meat (the 
kind not good for other purposes) lobster fat, and 
coral or eggs, to make one pint, and grind it fine 
in a meat cutter or hash it fine with a cleaver or 
heavy knife, place the ground or hashed lobster, 
one pound of creamery butter, one teaspoonful 
salt, one-eighth teaspoonful red pepper and two 
teaspoonfuls dry English mustard in a wooden 
bowl or morter, if you have one, and with a 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 69 

potato masher rub and knead until all of the 
ingredients become as smooth as the butter 
originally was; place the lobster butter in a china 
dish or bowl, and put in a cool place at least four 
or five hours before using. Lobster butter made 
after the above directions if kept in a tempera- 
ture of forty or less degrees, will keep pure and 
sweet a week or a year. It makes a delicious 
butter or dressing for broiled lobster and all 
kinds of broiled fish, hot or cold, and a most 
delicious butter for sandwiches. 



NO. 26.— LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. 
For every portion of Newburg you wish to 
serve add one gill of Newburg sauce, heat over a 
quick fire in saute pan or chafing dish, stir 
gently but continuously until hot. Serve im- 
mediately. 



NO. 27.— LOBSTER A LA DELMONICO. 
Prepare, heat and serve exactly in the same 
manner as you would lobster a la Newburg, 
using Delmonico sauce instead of Newburg. (See 
receipt No. 2(i.) 



NO. 28.— LOBSTER A LA BOOTHBY. 
Prepare and heat the same as lobster a la New- 
burg, using Royal sauce instead of Newburg. 
Serve on toast, garnish with croutons, dipped 
in chopped parsley. (See receipt No. 26.) 



NO. 29.— LOBSTER A LA BRENNON. 
For every portion desired (a portion means 



■JO .300 WAYS Ta COOK 

when used in connection with any of these 
receipts enough for one person) place in a saute 
pan or chafing dish one gill of inch pieces of lob- 
ster meat, one-half ounce butter, one tablespoon- 
ful chopped celery, three sliced French mush- 
rooms, twelve oyster crabs (live), one pinch of 
salt, pinch of chopped parsley, one tablespoonful 
Chili sauce, cook ten minutes, then add one-half 
gill brown sauce and one tablespoonful sherry 
wine; cook four minutes longer and serve on dry 
toast or puff paste crouton. 



NO. 30.— LOBSTER A LA FLOCKEY. 
For every portion desired place in a saute pan 
or chafing dish the meat and fat of one-half 
medium sized lobster, with one-half gill Espag- 
nole sauce, one tablespoonful macedoine, one 
teaspoonful blanched celery, chopped, one tea- 
spoonful chopped white meai; of chicken, four 
thin strips of boiled beef tongue, one tablespoon- 
ful tomato sauce, or tomatoes; season with salt, 
white pepper and chopped parsley; cook ten 
minutes and serve on toast, with border boiled 
or steamed rice. 



NO. 31.— LOBSTER A LA RUSS. 
For every portion desired place in a saute pan 
one gill inch pieces of lobster meat with one-half 
gill cream sauce, one-half gill macedoine, and 
one-fourth teaspoonful chopped parsley ; cook 
five minutes and serve on toast or puff paste 
crouton. 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 



NO. 32.— BROILED LIVE LOBSTER. 
Piace a large or small lobster, as you wish, 
alive, on a table or meat block, belly down, 
spread the tail straight out, full length, and 
with a sharp, heavy knife start from the head 
and cut it straight down the back to the end of 
the tail, dividing it in halves ; detach the claw 
from each half and crack them, place the lobster 
between an ordinary grilling iron and place it 
over a strong open fire, shell down first; broil 
until done and serve with either drawn butter, 
Maitre d' Hote sauce, Tartar sauce or lobster 
butter; garnish with baby cress. 

NO. 33.— BROILED LIVE LOBSTER, STUFFED. 

Prepare and broil exactly as broiled live lob- 
ster in receipt No. 32, Broil twelve minutes, 
then remove from the grilling iron and place on 
a dish or pan, shell side down; when cool enough 
to handle fill body shell (be careful not to remove 
meat in the tail shell) one inch above the top. 
Take all the stringy meat and fat of the lobster, 
one ounce cooked lean ham, six French mush- 
rooms, one boiled beef bread, one-eighth small 
white onion, grind or hash fine, add a pinch of 
parsley and salt, two tablespoonfuls Chili sauce 
and one tablespoonful Lea and Perrin sauce. 
Mix all well together, place in oven and cook 
until golden brown, ifc usually takes about fifteen 
minutes in hot oven; serve with drawn butter 
sauce. 



NO. 34— LOBSTER CUTLETS, CREAM SAUCE. 
Lobster cutlets are made and cooked in the 



72 300 WAYS TO COOK 

same manner as oyster cutlets; use lobster instead 
of oysters, serve with cream sauce. (See receipt 
No. 79, in oysters.) 



NO. 35.— LOBSTER CUTLETS, CARDINAL SAUCE. 
Made, cooked and served in the same manner 
as in receipt No. 34, lobsters. Form cutlets, lob- 
ster shape, and serve with Cardinal sauce. 



NO. 36.-PATTI A LA CREAM, 
Cut lobster meat in inch pieces, heat in cream 
sauce, fill puff paste patti shells and serve ; gar- 
nish with chopped parsley. 



NO. 37.— PATTI A LA TERRAPIN. 
Prepare and ?erve the same as in receipt No. 
36. Heat in terrapin dressing instead of cream. 
Garnish with thin sliced truffles. 



NO. 38.— CLAWS, FRENCH FRIED, WITH BACON. 
Dip lobster claws in thin egg batter, (oyster 
batter will do if you have any on hand) dry in 
flour and fry in new lard or olive oil, drop two 
thin slices of bacon in the hot lard or oil, for 
every portion to be served, at the same time that 
you do the lobster, when the bacon is done, 
drain lobster and bacon one minute, place both 
on plalter. season with butter, salt, white pepper 
and Lea and Perrin sauce, place in hot oven for 
three minutes and serve. 



NO. 39.— LOBSTER CLAWS A LA MARYLAND. 
Prepare and cook the same as in receipt No< 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 73 

38, serve with cream sauce, garnish with fried 
diamond or crescent shaped hominy, tipped with 
chopped parsley. 



NO. 40.— CLAWS BRAISED A LA GERMAIN. 
Place the claws in saute pan or chafing dish 
with a little butter, braise first one side and then 
the other, about ten minutes, then add chopped 
leeks, chives, mushrooms, parsley, and sweet 
potatoes; cook ten minutes and serve, 

NO. 41.— LOBSTER SALAD. 
Cut the stringless meat of lobster in inch 
pieces, and bleached celery in one-half inch 
pieces, mix lobster and celery, two-thirds lobster 
and one-third celery. Mix in mayonnaise and 
serve. 



74 300 WAYS TO COOK 



HAllD SHELL CIIABS. 

NO. I.— HOW TO COOK. 
Place in live steam, or boiling water, with 
plenty of salt, and a little white wine vinegar ; 
cook hard for twenty minutes. Dead crabs are 
never fit to cook. 



NO. 2.— HOW TO PICK CRABS. 
After the crab has thoroughly cooled simply 
cut the body in half and crack the claws, pick 
out all of the firm white meat and fat; throw 
every thing else away. 



NO 3.— PUREE OF CRAB 
Puree of crabs is prepared, cooked and served 
in the same manner as puree of lobster, use crab 
meat instead of lobster meat. (See receipt No. 
3, in lobsters.) 



NO. 4. -CRAB SALAD, MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Mix fine chopped white celery, one-third as 
much celery as you have of crab meat and dress 
with Mayonnaise dressing when ready to serve. 



NO. 5.— CRAB SALAD, FRENCH DRESSING. 
Prepare and serve the same as No. 4, using 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 75 



French instead of Mayonnaise dressing. 



NO. 6.— CRAB SALAD, BEONAISE DRESSING. 
Prepared and served the same as No. 4, using 
Beonaise instead of Mayonnaise dressing. To 
make Beonaise dressing, place four ounces of 
butter in a tin-lined saute pan with two table - 
spoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful dry English 
mustard, one-half tablespoonful salt, pinch of 
red pepper; cook five minutes, add one quart of 
white vinegar, cook five minutes, add one pint 
of cream ; cook three minutes, add two table- 
spoonfuls sugar and yolks of six eggs, cook six 
minutes, stir often, turn in china bowl to cool 
before using. 



NO. 7.— DEVILED CRABS A LA CREAM. 
To devil one dozen crabs a la cream, place two 
ounces of butter, two tablespoonfuls of dry flour, 
salt and white pepper to taste, one-half teaspoon- 
ful dry mustard, one-half teaspoonful sweet 
marjoram, pinch of ground mace, three table- 
spoonfuls Lea and Perrin sauce, cook ten minutes, 
stirring continuously, add yolks of two eggs, 
one teaspoonful chopped parsley and one-and-a- 
half pints cream, cook five minutes, mix in crab 
meat, when cool fill into well cleaned and dry 
shells, oiie-half inch above the top, bread ard 
cook the same as a croquette. Serve one to the 
portion. 



NO. 8.— DEVILED CRABS, BALTIMORE STYLE. 
Mix the crab meat with bread crumbs, pepper, 



76 300 WAYS TO COOK 



salt, butter and cream ; fill shells same as in 
receipt No. 7. Sprinkle green bread crumbs 
lightly over top, little butter and chopped parsley, 
Place in hot oven and brown quickly; serve one 
to the portion. 



NO. 9.— MINCED CRAB MEAT ON TOAST. 
Saute the crab meat in saute pan or chafing 
dish with butter and cream, season with pepper 
and salt and serve on toast. 



NO. 10— CRAB CUTLETS, SAUCE A L' ARMANDE. 
Make, prepare and cook the same as lobster or 
oyster cutlets, use crab meat, instead of oyster 
or lobster, serve with a 1' Armande sauce. 



NO. II.— CRAB CAKES, BUTTER SAUCE. 
Make a stiff, rich cake, batter thin, mix in 
enough crab meat to make stiff. Cook on grid- 
iron or in a smooth bottom fry pan same as griddle 
or pan cakes; serve with drawn butter for break- 
fast or lunch. 



NO. 12.— PATTI A LA CREAM. 
Prepare and serve same as lobster patti, use 
crab meat instead of lobster. 



NO. 13.— CRABS EN CROQUETTE. 
Prepare, cook, and serve in the same manner 
as lobster or oyster croquettes, using crab meat 
instead of oyster or lobster. 



NO. 14.— CRAB, MODI D' KANE. 
Take a richly prepared crab salad a la Beonaise, 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 77 

and fill into cleaned and polished medium size 
crab shells, garnish on top with sliced truffles, 
whole anchovies and petite gherkins. Place in ice 
chest or refrigerator from two to six hours and 
serve one to the portion. 



NO. 15.— CRAB FARCI A LA CROUTON. 
Make a farci of crab meat, fill it into a vol au 
vent shell, place it in a hot oven and brown 
quickly. Serve with Royal or Madeira sauce. 
Farci of crab is made by adding to one pint crab 
meat one-fourth pint of cream, one tablespoonful 
chopped mushrooms, one teaspoonful chopped 
parsley, one blanched sweetbread, chopped, one 
tablespoonful chopped celery, two ounces of but- 
ter, pepper and salt ; cook fifteen minutes and 
cool before filling in shells. 



NO. 16.— CRAB BUTTER. 
Prepared and made in the same manner as 
lobster butter. (See receipt No. 25 in lobsters.) 



NO. 17.— CRAB SANDWICHES. 
Spread tliin sliced and crust trimmed sand- 
wich bread with crab butter and place between 
two slices a layer of white lettuce, a layer of 
crab meat and a layer of thin sliced white meat 
of chicken. Serve for lunch or tea. 



78 30O WAYS TO COOK 



OYSTEK CliABS. 



NO. I.— OYSTER CRABS, PLAIN. 
Oyster crabs intended for use the same day 
when secured alive place in clear cold water and 
keep in a oool place ; if you desire to keep them 
longer than eight or ten hours blanch them ; 
rinse well and put away in clear cold water and 
a little salt. 



NO. 2.— OYSTER CRAB SALAD, FRENCH DRESSING. 
Made and served in the same manner as lobster 
salad. (See lobster salad, French dressing,) 
Serve with French dressing. 



NO. 3.— SALAD, MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 
Made and served in the same manner as re- 
ceipt No. 2, Mayonnaise instead of French dress- 
ing; do not mix in dressing until ready to serve. 



NO. 4.— STEWED OYSTER CRABS IN CREAM. 

Braise oyster crabs (alive) in butter, season, 
and add sweet heavy cream, cook until cream 
comes to a boil ; remove from fire immediately ; 
garnish with parsley and crouton. 



NO. 5— OYSTER CRAB OMELETS. 
Take from twenty-five to forty live oyster 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH, 79 

crabs for every portion, or person, you wish to 
serve, and blanch them in boiling water, drain 
dry, and add to every twenty-five or forty oyster 
crabs one half gill heavy cream sauce, heat hot, 
and place as much of the crabs and sauce as you 
can inside of a three egg, plain omelet, place on 
a long dish or platter, pour balance of crabs and 
cream sauce around edge of omelet, sprinkle 
with chopped parsley and serve quickly. 



NO. 6— BROILED OYSTER CRABS. 
Grease with butter a cake or oyster griddle, 
and place the crabs on the same over strong heat, 
broil two minutes and turn; broil on reverse side 
two minutes and serve on toast, with drawn 
butter or Madeira sauce. 



NO. 7.— OYSTER CRAB PATTI. 
Saute oyster crabs in either Cream, Royal, 
Newburg, Delmonico, or Imperial sauce, and fill 
into patti shells. 



NO. 8.— OYSTER CRABS EN COQUELLE. 
Prepared, made and cooked in the same man- 
ner as oysters en coquelle. (See receipt No. OO 
in oysters.) 

NO. 9.— OYSTER CRAB SAUTE A LA ROYAL. 
Saute live crabs in Royal sauce ; serve in in- 
dividual tureen. 



NO. 10.— OYSTER CRAB SAUTE EN CASE. 
Saute oyster crabs in either Newburg, Imperial 



8o 300 WAYS To COOK 

or Delmonico sauce and serve in ornamental 
maschia cases. 



NO. II.— OYSTER CRABS A LA NEWBURG. 
Saute in butter and serve with Newburg sauce. 



NO. 12.— OYSTER CRABS EN TIMBAL. 
Saute in white wine sauce and serve in timbal 
shells. (See receipt for timbal shells.) 



NO. 13. -OYSTER CRAB FARCI EN SWEETBREAD. 
Blanch as many sweetbreads as you have 
persons to serve (beef breads will do) and place 
them one side to cool, cut a hole in each sweet- 
bread ; take the sweetbread that you dig out of 
the hole, hash it up with three French mush- 
rooms, one- half teaspoonful braised onion and 
twenty oyster crabs ; mix well together and stuff 
sweetbreads, sprinkle with bread crumbs (green 
crumbs) place in roasting pan and submerge 
in celery tops, pot herbs and parsley, coat well 
with butter, cook gently one hour ; serve with a 
Bernaise sauce. 



NO. 14.— CANOPY A LA LORENZO. 
For every person whom you wish to serve 
place a crouton of toast or puff paste in a butter 
greased pan, set aside, while you count out fifty 
oyster crabs for each portion, and to every fifty 
oyster crabs add one tablespoonful chopped crab 
meat, one-fourth truffle, one tablespoonful hashed 
white chicken meat, pinch of parsley, pinch of 
salt and white pepper, and one tablespoonful of 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH, 8r 



heavy white or cream sauce, mix well together ; 
after cooling for an hour or so, build bell shape 
about three inches high on top of croutons, dust 
lightly with green bread crumbs and coat with 
melted butter, place in quick oven and brown ; 
serve at once with bleached celery or baby cress. 
The above is a most delicious entree and very 
pleasing to the eye. 

NO. 15.— OYSTER CRABS IN BUTTER. 
Take five hundred oyster crabs and one-half 
pound creamery butter, one- half teaspoonful of 
celery salt, pinch of red pepper and one- half 
teaspoonful chopped parsley ; with a heavy po- 
tato masher knead in wooden bowl or morter, 
until all is as smooth as the butter originally was 
place in a china bowl or dish and keep in a cool 
place ; good to use on broiled oysters and all 
kinds of broiled game or fish or sandwiches. 

NO. 16.— OYSTER CRABS ALA CHERVILLE. 
Saute oyster crabs (alive) in butter, chopped 
cherville and parsley, season with celery salt and 
white pepper ; serve on toast with cream dress- 
ing or sauce. 



82 30O WAYS TO COOK 



SHPvTMPS, 



NO. I.— HOW TO COOK AND SHELL SHRIMPS. 

Place the shrimps in boiling water to which 
you have added salt and a little vinegar, boil 
briskly for about twenty minutes, place under 
running water (cold) for about two minutes, 
then strip off £,hell in about the same manner as 
you would a boiled chestnut ; keep m a temper- 
ature at or below forty degrees if your ice box 
or refrigerator does not register so low ; cover 
with melted lard after thoroughly drying, they 
will keep pure and sweet (if the lard is pure) for 
an indefinite period of time. 



NO. 2.— SHRIMP SALAD. 
Made and served in the same manner as lobster 
salad (see receipt No. 41 in lobster). Dress the 
shrimps whole with either French or Mayonnaise 
dressing. 



NO. 3.— BLANCHED SHRIMPS IN BUTTER. 
Place the shrimps in saute pan or chafing dish 
with a little butter and either hashed parsley, 
chives, or cherville, brown and serve. 



NO. 4— SHRIMPS STEWED IN CREAM. 
Saute shrimps in butter and dust dry flour, 
Avhip yolk of one egg in one gill of heavy cream 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 83 

for each portion, add to shrimps, cook two 
minutes, season with white pepper, salt and 
pinch of grated nutmeg. Serve in individual 
tureen or soup plate. 



NO. 5.— BROILED vSHRIMPS, DRAWN BUTTER. 
Broiled shrimps are cooked and served in the 
same manner as broiled oyster crabs (see broiled 
oyster crabs) for broiled shrimps. Put a few 
drops of Lea and Perrin sauce and a few drops 
of lemon juice in drawn butter. 



NO. 6.— BROILED A LA DIABLE. 
Prepare and broil in the same manner as 
oyster crabs ; served on toast with Devil sauce. 



NO. 7.— SHRIMP BUTTER. 
Prepared, made and preserved in the same 
manner as lobster or crab butter. (See lobster 
butter, receipt No. 25.) 



NO. 8.— SHRIMP SANDWICHES. 
Refer to receipt No. 17 in crabs and follow the 
directions given therein for making sandwiches ; 
use shrimps instead of crabs. 



84 300 WAYS TO COOK 



SAUCES. 



NO. I.— A L' AEMANDE. 
Break the bones of a small veal knuckle and 
place it in a large tin lined pot with one pound of 
salt pork cut small, three large white onions cut 
up, one small carrot cut up, one bunch of pars- 
ley, one large bunch of pot herbs, one-fourth 
grated nutmeg, one-half pound butter, one pint 
of raw tomatoes, cook gently one-half hour, add 
one and a half pounds of dry flour, cook gentl> 
one hour (stir often so as to prevent the ingre- 
dients from hanging to the bottom of the pot). 
Add ten quarts of chicken broth, chicken bones, 
raw chicken necks, and feet, season with salt, 
white pepper and one teaspoonful of celery bit- 
ters and one bay leaf, cook three hours. Strain 
while hot through puree sieve or china cap and 
cool gently ; put away in even temperature; will 
keep pure and sweet one week or one month. 



NO. 2.— A LA LORENZO 
Put one-half pound butter, two large white 
onions, cut small, bunch of parsley, one handful 
of celery tops, eight spring chives, one small bay 
leaf, tablespoonful celery salt, one-half teaspoon- 
ful red pepper, one pound of dry flour, cook 
gently one hour, stir often, after cooking one 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 85 

hour add eight quarts of new milk, one small 
raw ham nuck, well cracked, and two ounces of 
dry sweet marjoram, cook two hours, stirring 
every ten minutes or so, Do not allow the in- 
gredients to hang to the bottom of the pot. (In 
making all heavy or body sauces use wooden 
spoon or egg whip.) Strain, add one pint white 
wine sauce, cool slowly and put away in cool 
even temperature. If directions are carefully 
followed it will keep sweet for weeks and even 
months. 



NO. 3.— SAUCE BERNAISE. 
For every portion of Bernaise sauce needed 
add to one-half gill of cream sauce one table- 
spoonful tomato sauce, one teaspoonful white 
vinegar, one teaspoonful pulverized sugar, one- 
half ounce of butter, one-half teaspoonful lemon 
juice and yolk of one egg, whip all well together 
with egg whip while heating. (Do not stop 
whipping for a second, as it will either burn or 
tie up, or both.) Serve at once, or keep hot in a 
bamberer or vessel of hot water until ready to 
serve. Bernaise sauce should always be used at 
once or during the first hour after preparing. 



NO. 4. — BORDELAISE SAUCE 
Put one pound of beef marrow cut up in small 
pieces in a tin-lined pot, with one large onion, 
hashed fine, two cloves of garlic, chopped fine, 
one-half pound lean cooked ham, chopped fine, 
one-half teaspoonful dry sweet marjoram, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful red 



86 300 WAYS TO COOK 



pepper ; cook until marrow fat turns to light 
brown, add one-fourth pound dry flour, cook 
slowly fifteen minutes, add one pint of tomato 
sauce and cook slowly ten minutes, add three 
pints of consomme, one pint of port wine, one 
can of French mushrooms and four truffles, 
chopped fine, cook slo\vly one and a half hours. 
Cool slowly before putting away. When pre- 
pared according to above receipt will keep pure 
and sweet for weeks or months. 



NO. 5.— BOSTON SAUCE. 
Take the skin from one small knuckle of ham, 
chop it into small pieces, bone and all, and put 
it in a tin-lined pot with one pound of butter, 
two large white onions, cut into small pieces, 
one small carrot, handful celery tops, one large 
bunch of green pot herbs, six whole cloves, six 
whole allspices, two leaves of green bay leaf, 
two tablespoonfuls salt, one teaspoonful red 
pepper and one-half cup granulated sugar ; cook 
slowly one hour, then add two quarts of chicken 
broth and six quarts of canned tomatoes, cook 
slowly two hours, thicken with one half pound 
of best cornstarch. Strain through puree sieve 
or china cap. Cool slowly and put away in an 
even temperature, 

NO 6.— BECHAMEL SAUCE. 
Put one pound of butter in a tin-lined pot with 
one large white onion, chopped fine, one table- 
spoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful red pepper, 
onedialf teaspoonful ground green mace and one 



AND SERVE SHELL EISH. 87 

bunch of parsley ; cook twenty minutes, add. one 
pound of dry flour, cook thirty minutes, stir 
often, add two quarts of chicken or veal broth 
and one quart boiled oyster broth, cook slowly 
fifteen minutes, stirring often; with an egg whip 
whip the yolks of ten eggs into five quarts of 
boiled milk, whip milk and eggs into pot with 
other ingredients and cook slowly three-quarters 
of an hour. Strain through china cap and cool 
quickly. This sauce will keep good and sweet 
with care for about two weeks. 



NO. 7.— BROWN (OR ESPAGNOLE) SAUCE. 
Place three pounds of fat bacon and ham, cut 
in small pieces, in a large tin-lined pot, with 
three or four large onions, or eight or ten leeks, 
two large carrots, cut up, one large bunch of pot 
herbs, one-fourth cup of salt, one-half table- 
spoonful of white pepper, one cup of Lea and 
Perrin sauce, one tablespoonful of dry English 
mustard, ten whole allspice, six whole cloves, 
two leaves of bay leaf and six cloves of garlic ; 
cook one hour, add two pounds of dry flour and 
four quarts of canned tomatoes, cook one-half 
hour, add nine quarts of consomme or bouillon 
and one-half cup burnt caromel (burnt sugar), 
cook gently four hours, stir often, keep free from 
bottom of pot, cool slowly. This sauce will keep 
in a cool even temperature one week or six 
months. 



NO. 8.— CLAM SAUCE. 
Cut in small pieces one-fourth pound salt pork 



88 300 WAYS TO ^COOK 

and place in saute pan with two ounces of but 
ter, one -fourth of a small white onion, chopped 
fine, pinch of ground mace, pinch of mace, pinch 
of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful white or red pep- 
per, one teaspoonful chopped parsley and ten 
large clams, chopped ; cook twenty minutes, add 
one quart of clam juice, cook fifteen minutes, 
add one quart of boiled milk, cook ten minutes, 
thicken with cornstarch and use within twelve 
hours after making. 



NO. 9.— CRAB SAUCE. 
Reduce cream sauce to the consistency of heavy 
cream and add chopped crab meat or blanched 
oyster crabs, a little sherry or Madeira wine, 
chopped parsley ; serve. 



NO. 10.— CREAM SAUCE. 
Place one pound of butter in a tin-lined pot, 
cook afier it all melts three minutes, add one 
pound of flour, pepper, salt, and one-half grated 
nutmeg, cook ten minutes ; add four quarts boiled 
milk and one quart of heavy cream; cook one 
hour, cool slowly, will keep pure and sweet for 
two weeks in a low even temperature. 



NO. II.— CURRY SAUCE. 
Carry sauce is made by adding the desired 
quantity (according to taste) of imported curry 
powder to either Cream, Bechamel, or Armande 
sauce. This is a combination sauce and like all 
such should be served as soon as made. 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 



NO. 12.— DEVIL OR DIABLE SAUCE. 
Place two quarts brown sauce in a six or eight 
quart pot or saute pan (tin lined), add one-half 
pint of Boston sauce: two tablespoonfuls of dry 
English mustard, one tablespoonful parsley 
sauce, one-half teacup Lea and Perrin sauce ; 
two tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish, one- 
half tablespoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of 
Indian sooy, one-half teaspoonful curry powder, 
four ounces of butter and one quart consomme 
or bouillon; cook three hours, cool slowly ; will 
keep pure and sweet one year almost anywhere. 



NO. 13.— DIPLOMATE SAUCE. 
Put one-quarter pound butter in tin-lined saute 
pan, with one small white onion, hashed fine, 
small bunch pot herbs, one-half teaspoonful salt, 
pinch white pepper, and ground mace, cook slow- 
ly ten minutes, add three ounces of flour ; cook 
ten minutes one pint of chicken broth, and one 
quart of heavy cream ; cook thirty minutes slow- 
ly, add one pint of Madeira and one teaspoonful 
liquid cochineal ; strain and serve at once or 
keep in a bambree of boiling water until ready 
to use. 



NO. 14— DELMONICO SAUCE. 
For every pint of Delmonico sauce desired, one 
pint will make four portions, add one gill Madeira 
wine and forty blanched oyster crabs to three 
gills of Royal sauce. Heat and serve at once, 



90 300 WAYS To 'COOK 

NO. 15.— TERRAPIN DRESSING. 
To make two quarts of terrapin dressing mash 
smoothly together the yolks of fourteen hard 
boiled eggs and one-half pound of best creamery 
butter, work into butter and eggs three ounces 
of dry flour, knead until perfectly smooth, place 
in tin-lined sauce pan, with one pint of terrapin 
or chicken broth and three pints 'of steamed 
cream, cook slowly one-half hour, add one-half 
teaspoonful of salt, pinch of red pepper, one-half 
teaspoonful grated nutmeg, juice of one-fourth 
lemon ; cook half hour longer, add one-half pint 
of best Madeira and one gill of best brandy ; cook 
one-half hour longer, strain and cool quickly. 
Terrapin dressing made according to directions 
above given will keep pure and sweet in an even 
temperature of forty-five, or less degrees, for 
months. 



NO. 16.— SNAPPER DRESSING. 
Snapper dressing is made in the same manner 
as terrapin dressing, except that you use milk 
instead of cream. Use sherry wine only, 



NO. 17.— CARAMEL DRESSING, OR SAUCE. 
Put one pound of granulated sugar in old iron 
pot or pan and cook until it turns to a dark 
brown ; add one large carrot, cut up, one-half 
cup of salt. Cook until it turns black ; add three 
pints of clear hot water, cook slowly two hours, 
strain and put away ; it will keep anywhere for 
years. Used for coloring soups, sauces and 
gravies. 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 9I 

NO. 18 —FRENCH DRESSING. 
Put one-half pint of white vinegar, one gill of 
olive oil, one tablespoonful of white sugar, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one-f nurth teaspoonful red 
pepper, and one tablespoonful dry English mus- 
tard in a deep china bowl. Whip all of the 
above mentioned ingredients with an egg whip 
three minutes and put in a cool place at least 
one hour before using. 



NO. 19.— IMPERIAL SAUCE. 
To one pint of Royal sauce add one gill of 
macedoine, two thinly sliced truffles, eight thin- 
ly sliced French mushrooms and one teaspoonful 
powdered lobster coral. Use within six or eight 
hours after preparing. 



NO. 2o._LOBSTER SAUCE. 
Put in a pot with four or five quarts of veal or 
chicken broth, one-half pound of butter, one 
onion cut in four pieces, one bunch of parsley, 
handful celery tops, pepper and salt to taste, and 
as many lobster bodies crushed as the pot will 
contain (which should be at least a ten or twelve 
quart pot) and cook gently two hours, strain 
through cheese cloth and place the pot with the 
strained broth back on the fire and add to it two 
quarts of cream, one-half pound of lobster but- 
ter and one-half cup of powdered lobster coral 
and flour thickening, (to make thickening use 
one-half pound of flour and one pint of white 
tvineand cook gently, but continuously one hour, 
strain through puree sieve or china cap, cool 



92 300 WAYS TO COOK 

slowly ; will keep pure and sweet in a low even 
temperature three or four weeks. 



NO. 21 —MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 
(The following receipt is how to make three 
pints of Mayonnaise dressing.) Knead the yolks 
of five hard boiled eggs, perfectly smooth, with 
a wooden spoon, in a china bowl ; then add the 
yolks of seven raw eggs ; knead both together 
until smooth, (after which use egg whip to finish 
Mayonnaise instead of wooden spoon), add one 
tablespoonful dry English mustard, one-fourth 
tea^spoonful grated nutmeg, one- half tablespoon- 
ful celery salt, one-fourth teaspoonful red pep- 
per and juice of one lemon, then whip into the 
bowl with the other ingredients, one quart of 
olive oil and one-half pint white Tarrigan Vine- 
gar, whip gently and slowly at first until all of 
the ingredients have thoroughly blended, then 
beat hard and rapidly in order to produce friction, 
heat sufficiently to cook eggs and oil; when the 
dressing becomes as firm and smooth as currant 
jelly and cracks when whipped, it is finished and 
ready for use. Mayonnaise dressing made ac- 
cording to the above receipt will keep pure and 
sweet for months in a cool even temperature. 



NO. 22.— MADEIRA SAUCE. 
To one pint of Cream or Bechamel sauce add 
one gill of Madeira wine ; heat and serve at once, 
(See Cream and Bechamel eauces.) 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 93 



NO. 23.— MAITRE D' HOTE SAUCE. 
Put two ounces of butter in a saute pan with a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, one teaspoonful Lea 
and Perrin sauce, salt and pepper to taste and 
cook to light brown add one teaspoonful hot 
white vinegar and one-half teaspoonful chopped 
parsley and serve. The above sauce is always 
made to order for immediate use. 



NO. 24 — NEWBURG SAUCE. 
To make one quart of New^burg sauce put four 
ounces of butter in a saute pan or chafing dish, 
with one-half pint of Madeira wine and four 
truffles sliced thin ; cook three minutes (whip 
yolks of eight eggs in one and a-half pint of heavy 
cream, season with salt and red pepper, serve at 
once or keep hot in Bambereen or vessel of hot 
water. 

NO. 25.— OYSTER SAUCE. 
To make one quart of oyster sauce put one- 
quarter pound of butter in saate pan with small 
white onion hashed fine, srnall bunch of parsley, 
one teaspoonful celery salt, pinch of red pepper, 
pinch of ground mace, and three ounces of flour 
cook six minutes, stir often, then add one quart 
of oyster liquor and one pint of cream ; cook 
one hour. Strain through puree sieve or china 
cap. Cool slowly. 



NO. 26.— PIQUANT SAUCE. 
Take one quart of brown sauce and place the 
same in a saute pan with one-half cup of horse- 



94 300 WAYS TO COOK 

radish, six gherkins chopped fine, one large white 
onion chopped fine, one-half can French mush- 
rooms chopped fine, one-fourth cup white vine- 
gar, one bunch chervil chopped fine, one tea- 
spoonful celery salt, pinch of red pepper and one 
pint of consomme or beef bouillon, cook one 
hour and cool slowly. Will keep pure and sweet 
for weeks in a cool even temperature. 



NO. 27.— ROYAL SAUCE. 
Put one pound of butter in a large bowl or pan 
with the grated yolks of eighteen hard boiled 
eggs, one teaspoonful grated nutmeg, table- 
spoonful of salt, one- fourth teaspoonful of pepper, 
juice of two lemons and four ounces of dry 
flour ; knead all well together until perfectly 
smooth, then place in a tin-lined pot with one 
quart of chicken or veal broth and two quarts of 
cream, cook slowly one hour, add one pint good 
sherry, cook twenty minutes longer and strain 
through china cap or puree sieve ; cool quickly. 
If kept in a cool even temperature, will be sweet 
and pure five or six weeks. 



NO. 28.— SHRIMP SAUCE. 
To one gill of cream sauce add one tablespoon- 
ful shrimp butter and one teaspoonful of ground 
shrimps, one-half gill of cream, pinch of pepper, 
salt and parsley. Heat and serve at once. 



NO. 29.— TOMATO SAUCE. 
Place small veal knuckle and one-half pound 
of salt pork in tin-lined pot with one-half pound 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 95 

of butter and large white onion, chopped, small 
carrot, chopped fine, bunch of pot herbs, handful 
celery tops, tablespoonful of salt, one- half tea- 
spoonful of red pepper, three whole cloves, three 
whole allspices, one leaf of bay ; cook briskly 
twenty minutes, stirring almost continuously ; 
add two quarts of hot water and a small cup of 
sugar, cook one-half hour longer ; and add one 
gallon of raw tomatoes, cook gently two hours, 
thicken with cornstarch while boiling, strain 
through china cap and cool slowly. Keep in a 
cool place. 



NO. 30.— TARTAR SAUCE. 
Take one large white onion, a small bunch of 
chives, eight gherkins, one-half can of French 
mushrooms, two large seedless olives, chop all 
together fine, squeezing all of the water out. 
Mix it well into two quarts of heavy mayonnaise 
dressing, add one half teacup well drained ca- 
pers. Keep in a cool even temperature, it will 
be pure and sw'eet until used. 



NO. 31.— VINAIGRETTE SAUCE. 
To one pint of white vinegar add one-half pint 
olive oil, one teaspoonful salt, one-half teaspoon- 
ful white pepper, four gherkins, chopped, one- 
half can French mushrooms, chopped fine, one 
bunch of parsley, chopped fine, one-half bunch 
of chives and one-fourth cup of capers, chopped 
fine. Mix all well together and serve cold. 



96 300 WAYS t6 cook 



UNCLASSIFIED PvECEIPTS. 



SOFT SHELL CRABS. 
Soft shell crabs are good as long as the shell is 
soft. A dead soft shell crab, that is one not 
killed in preparing it to cook, is never fit to use. 



HOW TO PREPARE. 
Detach the sand pocket, the fan, at the lower 
part of the belly, and the eyes; throw in cold salt 
water ; after remaining m the water fifteen 
minutes drain thoroughly and then dry between 
a thick towel ; spread out on dishes or pans 
until ready to use ; keep in a very cold place. 



SOFT SHELL CRABS, FRIED, PLAIN. 
Dust them with dry flour and fry in olive oil 
or butter, serve with cream, tomato or tartar 
sauce on toast. 



SOFT SHELL CRABS, BREADED. 

Dip in batter and bread in green bread crumbs 

in the same manner as an oyster, or croquette. 

Fry in boiling hot olive oil or new lard. Serve 

with cream, tomato, bordelaise or tartar sauce. 



SOFT SHELL CRABS, BROILED. 
Coat the crabs with olive oil, season and broil 
in the same manner as a lobster (see broiled lob- 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 97 

ster). Serve on toast with tartar or drawn butter 
sauce. 



SOFT SHELL CRAB SANDWICH. 
Saute crab in butter, cool and lay between two 
large white leaves of lettuce, spread two thin 
slices of bread with tartar sauce or mayonnaise 
dressing ; place the crab and lettuce between 
the slices of bread : trim the crust off, and serve 
between the folds of a small napkin or on a lace 
paper mat for lunch or tea. 



LOBSTER A LA FERRIS. 
To make one portion of lobster a la Ferris take 
one-half of the meat of one tail of lobster, cut 
lengthwise, and the meat of one claw and wraj) 
with thin raw bacon (fasten with new toothpicks) 
braise in hot oven fifteen minutes, serve on toast 
with Madeira sauce, or drawn butter. 



CARDINAL SAUCE, 
Cardinal sauce for fish, game, meats, etc., 
may be made by simply adding a few drops of 
cochineal or other harmless red coloring to most 
any kind of cream sauce. (As per example, if 
you wanted to use plain cream sauce, you would 
simply add a few drops of cochineal to the cream 
sauce, never enough to change the flavor) and it 
would be cardinal sauce a la cream. If you use 
royal sauce it would be cardinal sauce a la royal 
etc. 



OYSTERS— BOSTON ROAST. 
Is made by lining a stew dish or individual 



98 300 WAYS TO COOK 

soup tureen with diamond-shaped French toast 
and placing hot stewed oysters on top. Garnish 
with oyster crabs and serve as soon as made. 



OYSTERS— BOSTON PANNED. 
Made in the same manner as Boston roast, the 
only difference being that you use panned 
oysters instead of stewed, and garnish with 
blanched celery. 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH, 99 



HOUSEKEEPERS, MANAGERS, STEWARDS, 
CATERERS, CHEFS AND COOKS. 



To the housekeeper who may use or own this 
book, I would say in the simplest way that I 
know how, as I have not the ability, if I had the 
desire, to say it in any other way, that I have 
conscientiously followed the rule that I had fixed 
in my mind by which I would be governed be- 
fore beginning this book ; namely, simply to 
talk to y ou through the receipts in this book of 
which I know most and best about in the shortest, 
plainest and most correct manner, I possibly 
could, how to select, prepare and serve shell fish, 
in which I hope, I have in part, at least, suc- 
ceeded in entirely eliminating wordy prelimina- 
ries before and after each receipt. You will 
kindly remember that I am only a cook and not 
even a poor scholar ; but I pledge yo on my 
reputation as a cook and chef that every receipt 
in this book is absolutely correct. 

To the manager, steward, caterer, chef or cook 
in reading or using this book, you doubtless 
will find many new suggestions in connection 
with the sauces named in this book, being of 
course familiar with the names and stereotyped 
manner of making them — the way you know 

LofC. 



300 WAYS TO COOK 



how to make them is perfectly correct, if you 
make them according to standard authorities, 
for meat, game, fish, relishes and entrees. But 
the way 1 have given the receipts for making 
them to serve in connection with shell fish, is 
the proper way to make them. They may be 
used also for meat, game, fish, etc. 



AND SERVK SHELL FISH. tot 



CONCLUSION. 



In concluding "300 Ways to Cook and Serve 
Shell Fish," my dear friend, I wish to state, that 
from the beginning to the finish of this work, I 
have had ever in mind two cherished objects, 
the first of which, and is to become better known 
and appreciated by that branch of the great 
American public with whom I have in the past 
(through force of circumstances), and hope to in 
the future, through the medium of this book, 
come in business contact. Secondly, because I 
need— and very much need— the revenue that I 
hope to derive through the sale of this book, to 
the end that I may accomplish the cherished 
objects mentioned. I earnestly appeal to you for 
your personal assistance. 

It may seem a strange thing to you, perhaps, 
for me, possibly a stranger to you, to make an 
appeal for your personal assistance in connection 
with this book ; well, I have frankly told you my 
main object in studying and toiling for years, 
principally at nights, after working hours, to 
produce this book, because I have learned from 
experience that the American people appreciate 
frankness, and knowing that I could only hope 
to make it a success financially by selling many 
copies, and not having any immediate cash with 



300 WAYS Td COOK 



which to extensively advertise, I concluded from 
the outstart to give you my best efforts in this 
particular line, for so small a sum in consider- 
ation of the value given as to enable me to 
frankly state my position and earnestly appeal 
for your personal assistance to the end that you 
will personally recommend it to your friends and 
acquaintances. 

AUTHOR AND PUBLISHER. 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH 103 



CHARLES FREIHOPER, WILLIAM FRKIHOFER. 

FF^EIHOFER'S 

VIENNA BAKERY, 

OFFICE AND BAKERY, 

Twenty=fourth and flaster Streets, 

PHILADELPHIA. PA. 



Vienna Bread and Rolls of every description. 

Telephone Coniiectiou. 



©, ^, ^"umm ©©. 



MANUFACTURERS OP 

PI 



¥ 



SALAD OILS A SPECIALTY 



Office, Lawrence and Vine Streets, 
Works, 408 to 418 Vine Street, 

PHILADELPHIA, PA. 

Local and Long Distance Phone 



I04 2>^0 WAYS To COOK 



VAL, MILLER. JNO. KRAUSS, 

2162 K. Noiiis St, 2426 Cedar St. 



MILLER & KRAUSS 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 

Tripe, Pigs' Feet and Beef Salad, 

2JG2-HU E. NOIMIIS ST., 

PHILADELPHIA, PA. 



Raw and Cooked Tripe our specialty. 



We claim to have a process of cleaning and 
bleaching tripe, (known only to ourselves and 
as nearly perfect as is possible to obtain.) 

We are prepared to fill all orders lai-ge or 
small. 

Our shipping department is a special feature 
of our business. 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH, 105 



John G. Cox. Isaac C. Harvey. 

JOHN G. COX, 

WHOLESALE DEALER IN 

IW/t & BOIUO UOBST^RS, 

"jt Commercial Wharf, 

BOSTON, rXASS. 



We always have on hand a large supply of 
Lobsters and can fill orders, — either large or 
small — at short notice. 

One of the special features of our extensive 
business is the shipping department, which en- 
ables us to promptly fill orders of any size that 
may be received from any State in the Union. 



Io6 300 WAYS TO 'cook 



FRANCOIS SUPIOT, 

Fifty-seventh St. and Lancaster Ave. 

WEST PHILADELPHIA, PA. 

Dealer in French and baby water cress, parsley. 

Lettuce, pot herbs, radishes, mint, chives, 

chervals, tarrigan, thyme, garlic, etc. 

Makes a specialty of imported French lilacs and 
violets. We claim to be able to serve the 
finest specimens of these flowers pro- 
duced in America. 

USE THE BEST.... 




VieD9a 
Bread and Rolls. 



PHILADELPHIA, PA. 



Our shipping department for the prompt dis- 
patch of out-of-town orders a special feature of 
our extensive business. 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 107 



OLD RESERVE 

WHISKEY 

IS THE BEST, SIR! 



ALONZO LOHMAN 
CAT^R^R 



Phone Nos. 4-48 or 1-35-64. 



PHILADELPHIA, PA. 



THOROUQHLY UP TO DATE. 



Estimates furnished for weddings, breakfasts 
or lunches, banquets, dinners, stags, etc. 



Silver, glass, china and linen service to hire. 



Also table decorations and paraphernalia of 
the latest designs. 



Io8 300 WAYS TO COOK 



E. P. TFMMONS, 



WHOLESALE 



Fish and Oyster Dealer, 

Dock Street Wharf, Phila., Pa. 




Shell oysters sold by tlie Imndred, bai-rel or 
vessel load. 

A specialty made of opened oysters, sold by 
the hundred or by the gallon. 

SUMMER SPECIALTIES : 
Hard and Soft Shell Crabs and Crab Meat. 



JOSEPH TIERS & CO., 
Importers and Wine Merchants, 

FINE OLD WHISKIES, 

No. 341 WALNUT STREET, 

PHILADELPHIA. 



AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 109 

II27 Atlantic Ave., Atlantic City. 831 Park Ave. NY. 

GARRETT E. BROWNBACK'S 

Famous Golden Butter, 

FARMERS' MARKET, 
EIGHTEENTH ST. AND RIDGE AVENUE, 

A. H. FRY, MANAGER. 
Telephone Connections. PHILADELPHIA, PA. 



ALBION R. STAHL, 

Wholesale and Retail Dealer 
in Poultry and Game, 

219 CALLOWHILL STREET, 

PHILADELPHIA. 



Hotels, Restaurants. Club Houses and Hos- 
pital trade a specialty. Family trade given 
special attention. ^ 

Phone 26-11-D. 



no 300 WAYS TO COOK AND SERVE SHELL FISH. 



G. F. BENCKERT, 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL 

mihK DEALiER 

2130 South Sixth St , 

PHILADELPHIA. 



MAKES A SPECIALTY OF HOTELS, CLUB 

HOUSES, RESTAURANTS, AND 

HOSPITAL SERVICE. 



Having the entire control of two Pennsylva- 
nia and three New Jersey dairy farms, we feel 
in a position to guarantee all new customers 
one kind and quality of milk (the best), every 
day in the year. 



FAMILY TRADE SOLICITED AND GIVEN 
CAREFUL ATTENTION. 



PHONE. 



^ay-17. 1901 



MAY 13 1901 
ONE copy RECEnflED 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 







014 484 128 1 



