Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



jRADCUFFE COLLEGE UBRARY( 

WOMEN'S ARCHIVES 

Transferred from 

HARVAKD COLLEGE UBRAHY 

1960 



SatbaA ffiolltgt IStttixi 

RECEIVED BY BEQUEST 
d» SEPTEMBER 20, 1926 >* 



THE PEERLESS 
COOK BOOK 

BY I 

MARY J. LINCOLN 

ACTTHOR OF "THE BOSTON COOK »OOIC," "THE BOSTON 
SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK," "CARVING 

AND SEHVING," ETC. 

NEW AND ENLARGED EDITION^ 
WITH RECIPES FOR THE CHAFING DISH 



T 



BOSTON 
LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY 



\.ZtJ \'i^<\.i>l 



tIAtVAlID COLLEQB^LBRAIIY 

BEOUtST OF ' 

■RS. CNESIEtl H. GREENOUSH , 

■EPIEIIBtR 20, 1920 



Copyright, 1885, igot. 
By Mrs. D. A. Lincoln 



l7v 



THE PEEELESS COOK-BOOK 



Hop Veast. 
i cup loose hops. I i cup sugar, 

1 quart boiliug wftlei. 1 tablespoon salt 

1 cup flour. 1 1 cup yeaat. 

Steep the hops in the boiling water, in a granite kettle, five 
minutes. Mix the flour, sugar, and salt Strain the hop liquor 
and pour it boiling into the flour mixture. Boil one minute, or 
till thick. When cooled add the yeast. Cover slighUy, let it 
rise in a warm place, and when light and foamy put it into the 

Milk Bread. 

1 pint milk scalded and cooled. 1 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 tableap. butler melted In milk, i yeast cake. * i 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 6 cups flour. 

MIt the butter, sugar, and salt with the hot milk- When cool 
add the yeast, dissolved in half a cup o! water. Stir in the flour, 
adding it gradtkally after five cups are in, that it may not be too 
atiS. Mix with a knife, cutting it through, and turning and work- 
ing it over ontil all the dry flour is well mixed with the other 
material. Mix it aa soft as possible. Smooth the top, cover, let it 
i{de, shape into loaves, and when well risen bake about forty 

Fine Granulated Wheat Bread. 

1 pint milk. I 1 teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons su^ar. i cup yeast. 

1 " drippings. I Flour as required. 

Mix the sugar, salt, and drippings with the hot milk; wh«a cool 

add the yeast. Then stir in one cup and a half of whit* flour, and 

enough cold-blMt flour or fine granulated wheat flour to make it as 

•ott as can be handled. HIx it thoroughly, but do not knead it 



12 THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 

Let it rifle, and when light stiape into four amall Io&vm ; pot two 
In a pan, and when well risen bake in moderate oven. 

Bread ivlth » Sponge. 

1 quart milk. 1 2 teaspoons salt. 

i cup butter or drippings, i cup yeast. 

1 tablespoon sugar. | Flour as required. 

Helt the butter, sugar, and salt in the hot millc When oool add 
the yeast, and flour enough to make a drop tiatter. Beat it thor- 
oughly. Let it rise, and when light divide the sponge Into three 
parts. Into one-third stir white flour enough to stiSen it, and 
knead nnti) smooth and fine-grained. Into tlie second part stir 
one tablespoon of sugar and fine granulated wheat flour, or entire 
wheat flour, until it is stifi enough to knead, but do not knead it. 
Lito the remaining part stir rye flour. Let them rise; shape into 
loaves, and when risen in the pans bake as usuaL 

Raised Brown Bread. 

1 pint yellow com meal. I i ^aspoon salt. 

i cup yeast. 1 ealtspoon soda. 

i " molasses. j 1 pint rye meaL 

Scald the meal with boiling water, just enough to wet it. Let it 
stand ten minutes, then add cold water to make a soft batter. Add 
the yeast, molasses, soda, salt, and rye meaL Beat it well and let 
it rise over night, or until it cracks open. Stir it down, put it in a 
round tin pan (buttered and floured) to rise again. Sprinkle floui 
over the top. Bake in a moderate oven two hours. 

Brown Bread. 

1 pint new milk. I } cup molasses. 
1 " com meal. 1 even teaspoon sodft. 

H cup fine granulated wheat. 1 1 teaspoon salt. 

Steam two and a half houre. Bake hail an hour. 



2 cups eommon com meal. 1 2^ cups sweet milk. 
1 cup rye meal. 1 teaspoon soda. 

i. " mnliuuvp. 1 lu^unt biaiTnooii nj 



It teaspoon sidt 
Beat thoroughly, and steam four hours. 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 

TogUB Bread. 
' 1 cnp flonr. 1 1 cup sweet milk. 

1 " meal. 1 " sour milk, 

1 teaspoon soda. i " molasBea. 

I " salt. I 

BoU two and a half hours. 

Steamed Brown Bread. 
1 cup Indian meal. I i 

1 " rye meal. j 

i " white flour. 1^ "* sweet wHk. 

i teaspoon sail. \ 

Mix ia Older given, and steam it two and a. half bonta. 

Raised Mnfflns. 

1 pint milk. 1 1 saltspoon salt. 

1 e^ 1 Urge tablespoon butter. 

4 cup jeasL | Flour for a stifE batter. 

Mix in the order given, add flonr gradually, beating it well, unUl 
so stiS you cannot beat Let it rise over night In the morning 
put it into battered pans, taking it out with a spoon and knife 
without stirring out the air. Bake about fifteen minntes. 

J KoUa. 

\ 1 pint warm new milk. I } cup yeast 

1 e^. 2 tablespoons melt«d butter. 

I teaspoon each sugar and salt | Flour for sponge batter. 

Let it rise until light, add flour and knead weU. Else agtun, 
shape, and when risen in the pan bake about fifteen minutes in a 
hot oven. 

Coffee BoUs. 

1 pint hot milk, | i cup yeast 

i cup butter and lard mlied. 1 egg. 

1 teaspoon salt | Flour to mix. 

Mix with a knife as soft as can be handled, and cut it thoroughly. 
In the morning knead well, make into large balls, then roll eadi 
ball between the hands into rolls six Inches long. Place them so 
tliey will not touch in the pan after rising. When light bake in a 
hot oven. 



14 THE PEEBLEas COOK-BOOE. 

Rusk. 

1 pint milk ic&lded. j 1 cup potato yeast 

i cup butter and lard mixed. 1 3 eggi. 

J " sugar. I Flour a» required. 

Mil early in the morning, in the order giren, adding flonr enough 
to make a tbin batter. When full of bubbl(?a, add flour to stiffen, 
and knead it well. Rise again, shape into small rounds, place them 
close together in a pan, and, when very light, bniah them over with 
■weetened milk, and bake in a hot oren about half an hour. 

Hwa Mri. lAneeln'a " BoiUm Coeh-Bntk." 

Swedlsb Rolla. 

1 pint milk scalded. 1 2 eggs (whites). 

} eup butter. J cup yeast. 

i " sugar. 7 or 8 cups flour. 

1 scant teaspoon salt. | 

Mix early in the morning, a sponge with the milk, sugar, salt, 
eggs, and yea.et, using flour enough to make a drop batter. Place 
the bowl in a pan of warm water, and when light add the butter, 
softened, and enough more flour to thicken it. Knead well, an4 let 
it rise again. When light, roll out into a large rectangular piece 
one-third of itn inch thick. Spread all over with soft butter, and 
a sprinkling of sugar, cinnamon, and currants. Itoll over and 
over, cut oU slices an inch wide, lay them with the cut side down 
on a well'^p^ased pan. Rise again, and bake In a hot oven. 

Strawberry ShortKtaike. 

1 pint of Sour. 1 1 teaspoon cream-of-tartar. 

4- teaspoon salt. i i cup butter. 

^ " soda. 1 1 " milk. 

1 " sugar. I 

Melt the butter, put it with the milk, and stir quickly into the 
dry ingredients. Roll out half an inch thick, cut into rounds, and 
bake slowly on a well-greased griddle. Tear open and spread each 
half with EofteDeil butter. Fat half of the cakes on a hot platter. 
Mash one quart of strawberries, sweeten to taste, drain off the 
juice, put a large spoonful of berries on each cake, then put on 
another layer of cakes and berries. Mix the juice with half a cup 
of cream, and serve with the short-cake. 



THE FEEKOISS COOE-BOOE. 



Orange Shorttake. 



1 pint flonr. I i cup butter. 

} teaspoon salt. 1 e^. 

i " soda. 1 scant cup milk. 

1 " cream-oMartar. | 
Mix the dry ingredients. Beat tbe egg, add three-totirtlis of a 
cap of milk, and tbe butter melted. Stir this quickly into the 
flour, and use more milk It needed. The dough should be just 
stiff enough to be handled. Divide in two parts and roll each to 
flt a stiallow tin plate. Bake, and when done split open and spread 
^rith butter and sweetened oranges. Peel and divide the onuses, 
remove the seeds and thick inner pith, and cat each secUon Into 
three or four pieces. Put the two cakes together, and cover tba 
top layer of fruit thickly with powdered sugar. 

Flue OraniUat«d THieat Sbort-cokeB. 

1 cup Health Food Co. flour, j 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 " white flour, 1 cup sour milk. 

i teaspoon soda. I tablespoon melted batt«r. 

i " salt. j 

Crush and measure the soda, sift It with the salt into tbe flour, 
add the sugar, the sour milk, and when well mlied add the butter. 
Have the dough as soft as can be rolled. KoU one-third of an inch 
thick, cot with a round cutter, and bake slowly on a well-greased 
griddle. Tear them open and eat with butter and maple syrup. 
-n Dutch Apple Cake. 



1 scant cup milk. 

sugar. 



>■■ 1 pint flour. 
<^ i teaspoon salt. 

1 " cream-of-tartar. 

i cup butter. 

Mix the dry ingredients. Add the egg beaten and mixed with 
the milk. The dough should be soft enough to spread half an inch 
thick on a shallow baking-pan. Core, pare, and cut the apples into 
eighths.lay them in parallel rows on the top of tbe dou^, the sharp 
edge down, and press enoi^ to make the edge penetrate slightly. 
Sprinkle the sugar over the apple and bake half an hour. Eat 
while hot, with butter or with lemon^sauce. 

From Mrt. lArKoWt " BoOon Caoh-Book," 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOE. 



i cup unsifted fine gran, wheat. | i teaspoon salt 
t teaspoon soda. 1 tablespixiD cream. 

i " cream-of-tartar. I Milk. 

Mix In the order given, and wet with milk enou^ to make a stiff 
dou^ Boll out halt an inch thick, and bake in a lai^ cake on a 
hot griddle. Break apart and eat It hot with batter. 

Ht. Hor Tea Ctibe. 
1 quart floor. 1 1 cap sugar. 

3 teaspoons baking-powder. 1 pint rouk, 

1 teaspCwn salt i cup melted butter. 

Hix the baking-powder and Halt with the flour. Beat the e^B 
till thick and creamy, add tiie eugar, then the fnillr- Stir tb^ into 
the flour, add melted butter last, and beat it weU. Bake in a shal* 
low pan. Break and eat it hot. 

BaldDg-Fowder Bolls. 
I quart flour. 1 1 large tablespoon lard. 

6 teaspoons baking-powder. Hilk to moisten. 

1 scant teaspoon ^t. | 

Mix flour, baking-powder, and salt ; rub in Hie lard and mix with 
milk as soft as can be handled. Roll thin, cut into rounds the size 
of a small saucer. Spread with softened butter, fold over, press 
the edges together. Put them some dietanc« apart in a baking- 
pan. Let them rise half an hour; brush over with milk and sugar, 
and bake in a hot oven. 

Wheat Gems. 
I) cap fine granulated wheat. 1 1 egg. 
1 teaspoon baking-powder. 1 cup milk. 

i " salt 1 1 teaspoon melted butter. 

Beat the e^, add the milk, stir this into the dry mixture, beat 
well, add hotter last. Bake in hot buttered gem-pans. 

Huckleberry Cakes. 
1 quart flour, I J cup butter. 

1 scant teaspoon salt. Milk to moisten. 

1 even teaspoons baking-powder. 1 pint berries. 
i cup sugar. | 

Miz the salt^ baking-powder, and sugar with the flous Rub In 



THE PEEBIjESS COOK-BOOK. 



17 



Uie butter, and moIsUn with millc ta make a dough stiff enough to 
keep In shape when dropped from a spoon. Floor the beniee, etiz 
them in quickly, and drop by the large epoonfule on a well-buttered 
shallow pan, or in mufBn-pans. Bake twenty minutes. 

Frvm Mrt. laacoln'a " Bmlan Oooh-Book.'" 

Snow Wbeat Gems. 

1 cnp freshly fallen snow. 
i teaspoon soda disHolved in 
1 cup of sweet milk. 
1 egg well beaten. 



Graham PnOb. 

1} cnp Graham flour. 1 1 pint milk. 

-I cup white flour. 8 eggs beaten separatelf, 

i teaspoon salt j } cnp butter softened. 

Mix in the order given, and beat thoroogbly. Bake In hot but- 
teied gem-pans half an hour. 



} 



Bice Gems, 

1 cnp cold boiled rice. 1 1 saltspc 



Bake in hot iron gem-pans that have been well buttered. 



' I cup rich cream. 1 1 saltspoon salt. 

jy'-'! i cup sogar. 1 2 cups fine gian. wheat flour. 

■ Use sweet or sour cream ; the sugar will sweeten sufficiently. 
Knead till atiS enough to roll out thin as a wafer. Cut out and 
bake on ongreased tins in a hot oven. 

Thin Corn Cake. 

1 cap Tellow meal. I i t«aepoon soda. 

i " sugar. 1 ^g. 

i teaspoon salt. 1 cup sour milk. 

1 cup flour. 1 1 tablespoon melted butter. 

SQz In the order given, beat the e^, mix it with the milk, aid 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 



stir into the diy mixture ; add tlie butter, and beat thorougbly . 
Bake on tiro ahallow round pans. 

Front Mn. Lincoln'i •' Bottim Ooob-Book." 

Com Hnfflna. 

1 cap common com-meal. 1 1 tabteapoon butter. 

2 tablespoona sug&r. 5 cups boiling water. 
1 scant teaspoon salt [ 

Cook the meal, sugar, salt, and bntter in the boiling water in the 
double boiler for one hour. Turn into a bowl, and pour OTer one 
fourth of a cup of water to prevent a cmst from forming. In the 
morning beat it up soft and smooUi. Mix one cup and a half of 
fine corn-meal, one cup and a half of whole wheat flour, and two 
even teaspoons of baking-powder, and stir them into the cooked 
meaL Add one egg well beaten. Drop the mixture Into hot gein- 
pans and bake in a hot oven. 

Sour Milk Corn Cake. 

1 eup flour, [ i cup Hugar, 

4 " com-meaL 2 eggs. 

i teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon butter melted. 

i " Boda. 1 1 cup sour milk. 

Uiz the flour, meal, salt, soda (sifted), and sugar ; add sour milk, 
eggs beaten well, and butter. Bake in shallow caikft-pan and cut in 
aqnaieo. 

lAght Com Cakes. 
1 pint sifted com-meaL I 3 cups milk. 
1 cup flne wheat flour. 2 eggs. 

i teaspoon salt. 1 1 s^tspoon soda. 

Pour it into buttered ^m cups, bake qnlckly ; pull them open, and 
eat while hot with, batter. 

Rice and Corn Coke. 

J cup rice boiled and hot 1 1 pint com-meal. 
" butter. 2 tablespoons Bonr. 

5 eggs, 1 1 teaspoon salt 

Stjr the butter hito the hot rice ; when cool add the well-beaten 
eggs, meal, flour, and salt Mix with milk to make a thin batter, 
and bake in a hot oren. 



TEE PEEBLESS COOK-BOOK. 19 

Corn Cake. 

1 pint white com-meal. [ 1 teaspoon butter. 

1 quart boiling milk, 2 tablespoons migar. 
i teaspoon salt. \ 3 eggB. 

Scald the meal witb the boiling milk, add tlie salt, butter, and 
sugai. Wben cool add tLe egga, yolks and whites beaten sepa- 
lately. Bake in shallow tins. 

Hominy Caikes. 

2 tablespoons fine bominy. 1 1 tablespoon butter, 
i teaspoon salt; | } cup boiling water. 

Place this over the tea-ketUe or on the back of the stove nntD 
the hominy absorbs all the water. Four one cup of boiling milk 
on one scant cup of corn-meal, add two tableBpoona of sugar and 
tiie hominy. When cooled add two eggs, yolks and whites beaten 
separately, and one heaping teaspoon of baking-powder. Bake In 
liot bntteied gem-pans about twenty minutes. 

/Vxim Mrs. Lmcoln'i •'BotUm Cooh-Book." 

~/, ^ Slapjacks. 

1 cup sour milk, part cream. 1 1 ^g. 
' \ teaspoon soda. \ cup fine granulated vrtieM. 

1 saltspoou salt. | k " flour. 

Beat the eggB, and when the griddle is ready sift the soda and 
salt into the milk, add the egg and whole wheat flour and enough 
common flour to make them the right consistency. It Is better to 
try a spoonful, as the amount of flonr varies with the thickness of 
the milk. Bake in large round cakes the size of a plate. As soon 
as one is baked, spread with butter, sugar, and chmamon or nut- 
, meg, tlien add another, and so on until all done. Keep them hot, 
and wben ready, cut through all the layers into sections like a pie. 

* Flannel Cakes. 

1 pint millr , 1 4 teaspoon salL 

i cup yeast. 1 egg. 

1 " fine granulated wheat flour. 1 tablespoon melted butter. 
J " white flour. I 

Hlz tlie milk, 'yeast, fiour, and salt. Add the beaten egg, and 
when risen add liie melted butter. Use more or less white floui 
U tbe batter be not Uie right consistency. Fry on a griddle. 



20 THE PEEHLES3 COOK-BOOK. 

Oatmeal Griddle-Cakes. — Take oatmeal left from breakfast 
and an equal amount of stale bread, dry and crisp. Soak over 
night In sour milk enough to swell and moisten the btead. When 
soft, rub all through a aquash-atrainer. To a quart of the mixture 
add two eggs well beaten, a little salt, a teaspoon of goda, and 
floor enough to make a thin batter. Cook on a well-greased 
griddle. 

Fotata Grlddle-Cake*. 
4 caw potatoes grated. I -J- teaspoon salt. 
2 eggs, folk and white i saitfipoon pepper. 
beai«n separately. | 

!Floui- enotigh to hold it together, — about one tablespoon. Try 
in hot butter. 

Waffles. 
1 pint flour. l 4 eggs. 

1 teaspoon baking-powder. 1^ cup milk. 
i " salt, [ 1 tablespoon butter melted. 

Mix in the order given, add the beaten yolks with the milk, then 
the melted butter, and the whites IhsL Bake on hot well-greased 
wafSfr-ironfi. 

Fried HolBiis. 
I cnp milk, scalded. [ 1 e^. 

i scant t«aepoon salt. i cup yeast 

1 tablespoon sugar. Flour to make a atiif drop batter. 

1 " butter. I 

Scald the milk, and melt in it the salt, sugar, and butter. When 
cool add the beaten egg and yeast; then add flour gradually, beat 
ing it in tmtil you can beat no longer. Rise over night. In the 
morning take up a spoonful without stirring and drop it into deep 
fab 

Fried Com HofflnB. 

1 onp fine white meal. 1 2 e^s. 

i teaspoon salt i yeast cake. 

2 tablespoons sugar. Flour to stiiTen, 
1 pint boiling milk. | 

Mix the meal, salt, and sugar. Add gradually the boiling mUk; 
when cool add the yeast dissolved in a little water, the eggs well 
beaten, and flour to make a stiff drop batter. Kise over night. . 
Drop ttom a tablespoon inta deep, hot fat 



THE PEEELESS COOK-BOOK. 21 

Fried Rye HuEQus. 

1 |dnt soni milk. 1 1 saliepoon clmuunon. 

i cup moUmeg. 1 teaspoon soda. 

1 saftspoon salt 1 2 egga. 

Mix tn the order given and stir in rye flonr or rye mea] to make 
a stiS drop batter. Drop from a tabieapoon into hot fat. Then 
cook elonlf until they will not stick when tried with a fork. 

From Mri. Linailn'i "Anton Oooii-Book.'" 

DODSllDntH. 

2 eggs. I 4 cnpB flonr. 

1 cnp BUgar. \ teaspoon soda. 

3 tablespoons melted butter. 1 saltspoon salt. 

1 cup BOUT milk. \ \ " cinnamon. 

Beat the eggs ontil light, add the sugar, butter, and milk. Mix 

the salt, soda, and spice with the flour. Stir them Into the e^ 

mixtore, and add enough more flour to mJT ju^t soft enough to roll 

out. Roll, cut out, and fry in deep fat hot eDOUgh for the dot)^ 

Balsed Dougbimts. 
1 jant iweet mllfc. 1 1 ^g. 

1 cup sngar. } nutmeg. 

} " batter (softened). 5} to 6 cuim flonr. 

f " yeast j 

Ulx in the order ^tcd, rise slowly tjli light, roll out and cat In 
shape. Rise quickly till very light, then fry in hoi fat. 
B^sed Donglinatx. 



Beat the eggs, add ttte sngar aid butter, and beat it well into tha 
dongh. Add enough more flour to roll ont. 

'B«iiKh-tiud-R«ady OAes. 
1 cap milk. 1 1 saltspoon salt 

i " sngar. i cup yeast 

1 t«aapooa bntter. 1 1 ogg. 

Melt the sugar, bntter, and salt in tiie hot milk. When cool add 
the yeast and beatoa e^, then l>eat in flour enough to make a stdfl 
dough. Let it lise over night In the moming pull oE die dongh 
in small irregnlar-ahaped pieces and drop into hot fat 



22 THE PEEBLESS COOK-BOOK. 

Toast. — Cat stale bread In thin ellceB. Ptece tbem in a fine wire 
broaer, and move the broiler over a. clear fire, turning often, until 
th^ bread ia a uniform golden-brown color. If to be used dry, serve 
at once. If for water toast, dip each slice quickly inu> hot salted 
iratfiF, spread with butter, and serve very hot 

Milk Tout. — Put a pint of milk into a spider, add a large 
tablespoon of bnti«r, and let the milk boU about five minutes. 
Have the bread toasted till vety dry, but not burned. Put tbe 
slices in the milk and boil till quite soft Eemove te a dish and 
pour the milh over them. 

Cream Toast. 

1 pint milk OT cream. I i teaspoon salt. 

2 even tablespoons flour. 6 slices dry toast 
2 tablespoons butter. | 

Heat the milk, melt the bntter in a granite sauce-pan, add the 
flour, mfr well and stir in one-tliird of the milk. Stir till it thickens 
and is smooth, then add the remainder gradually. Add the salt. 
Dip the dry toast quickly in hot salted water ; put it in a deep dish 
and pour the thickened cream over each slice. 

Toast lor GarnisWng.— For poached e^e, cut the bread into 

lounds with a large cake-cutter before toasting. For small birds 
or asparagus, remove the crusts and cut into obloi^ pieces. For 
minces and fricassees, cut into small squares or diamonds. For a 
border, cut, after toasting, into inch and a half squares, and then 
into halves diagonally, making triangles ; or cut into long pointed 
triangles. 

Crisped Oackers, — Split butter crackers and spread with 
butter ; put them, the buttered side up, in a pan', and brown in a hot 
oven. Tbey are delicious with white and vegetable sonps, and in 
fish-ehowder and oyster-stews. They can be prepared in a short 
time, when it is not convenient to fry croCltens or to toast over an 
openflTB. 

Bye Short-Cake Toast. 

1 «ap white flour. I i teaspoon salt 

1 "^ rye " 1 tablespoon sugar. 

-t teaspoon soda. 1 cup sweet milk. 

1 " cream.of-tartar. 1 1 tablespoon melted butter. 



< 



THE PEEBLES^ COOK-BOOK. 23 

Ulx In Uie order giveii, making tlie dough slJfi enough to be 
rolled. Roll aboat quarter of on inch thick. Cut into rouDda or 
gquBfea, bake in a hot oren, tmd when done split open and let them 
dry a little in the oven. liiicken one cup of hot cream with one 
teaspoon of com-starch wet In cold water. Boil ten minutes, add 
a litUe salt and one tablespoon of butler. Poor It over the short- 
French Toast. — Beat one %g In a shallow dish, add a tea- 
spoon of sugar, a pinch of salt, and one cup milk. Soak six slices 
of stale bread in the cuatanL Drain and brown them on each side 
on a well-butteted griddle. Spread them wiUi jelly or marmalade, 
and pile them lightly on a. dish. Serve at once. 

Fried Gorn-Meol Muth.— Mix one pint of corn-meal, one 
teaspoon of salt, and one tablespoon flour wit^ one pint of cold 
milk. Stir it gradually into one quart of boiling water. Stir often 
and cook half an hour. Then him it into a wet bread-pan, and 
when cool cnt in half-inch slices; cut eacb slice in two, and dip 
them In flour. Fry several slices of breakfast bacon, drain them, 
fry t^e mnsh in the fat, and serve the bacon witlt tiie mush. 

Coarse Hominy. — Soak one pint of coarse hominy in cold 
water over night. In the mommg put it on in three pints of cold 
water and cook slowly four hours, or until soft. When nearly done 
etjr in one teaspoon of salt. Drain In a str^ner, and stir it with a 
fork to dry off. Eat it with milk as yon would hulled com ; or 
sprinkle wliJi pepper, stir In a tablespoon of butter, and serve it aa 
a vegetable. 

Hominy. — Put one cup of fine white hominy, one teaspoon salt, 
and three cups of boiling water in a double boiler and cook one 
hour. Kemove the cover, stir it with a fork to let the steam escape. 
Serve it as a breakfast mush with cream or syrup. If to be served 
as a vegetable for dinner, stir in a large tablespoon of butter just 
before taking It from the tir*. 

PearlAd Wheat Jelljr. — Pat ons trap of paaded whol* whaat 
into ona qoart of boiling salted water, and ball It tmco'vwed until 
(ba water haa nearly all evaporated. Then add gradoally OM qnatt 



24 THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 

of hot tnHk, and cook over hot water two honrs, ur imtll ereiy graJn 
is Boft Stir it with a fork, and pour it into moulds or cups which 
have been wet with cold wat«r. Keep it in a cool place, and when 
Ann and cold turn out and serve with cratvapple jelly and cream- 
Oatmeal. — Put a teaapoon of aalt and a scant quart ol boiling 
water In the top of the doable boiler, and place it on the stove. 
When tbe water boils, add gradually one cup of coarse oatmeal. 
Cook ten minutes, then place it in the bottom of the doubly boiler 
and let it cook one hour. Put a taldespoon of salt in the water 
in the lower boiler. When done remove the cover, stir vrith a fork 
to let the steam escape. Serve it on a platter, and garnish with 
baked apples. 

Oatmeal Hnsb. — Stir one cup of gnumlated oatmeal Into 
three cups of boiling salted water. Boil r^idly until the meal is 
swollen and has absorbed nearly all the water; stir oceaElonaUy 
with a fort:, then place the pail over hot water and steam It for two 
houra. 

Broivned Rlc«. — Cook one cup of rice with three caps of mJTk, 
in a double boiler until very soft. Season It with one teaspoon of 
salt and one tablespoon of butter. Pack it closely in a small bread- 
pan. When cold, cut it in half-inch slices and brown them delicately 
in hot butter. Or spread the slices slightly with butter, put them 
In a fine well-buttered gridiron, and color a li^t brown over a clear 
fire. 

Brown Com Cakes. — Scald one pint of fine com-mea! till all 
wet, then add cold water tjll a little thicker than griddle^akea. 
Add a pinch of salt Brown in butter or salt-pork fat on both 
sides, then put them in the oven on the grate for fifteen minutes 
to become crisp. 

Coflbe with an Egg. — Mix one whole egg with one cup of 
ground coflee, add half a cup of cold water and let it stand, covered, 
over night. When ready to use, take in the proportion of one table- 
spoon of the mixture for each halt-pint oup of coffee required. Put 
It into the coffee-pot, pour on the boiling water and simpler ten 
rainutea. Add hsdf a cup of cold water. Pour out a little to clear 
the spout, pour it back ; let it stand tv 



THE PEEKLESS COOK-BOOK. 25 

Coflbe made over night. — Grind the amount of coffee required 
andputitinacMnaoreartlien coffee-pot. Pourouoiie cupof oold 
water aod let it stand over night Then pom on the desired amount 
of boiling water. I*t it Btand five minutes where it will keep hot 
but cannot boll. One tableapooa of coffee and half a pint of boiling 
water for each onp. 

Coffee.— Tie four tablespoons of coffee in a, pieoe of coarse 
chees&<!loth. Put it in a coffee-pot with one pint of cold water. 
After it bii« boiled five minutes, add one pint of boiling water and 
keep it hot ten minutes. Keep the spout dosed irith a coric or 
paper. If there be no tdn cover. 

French CoObe. — Put two tablespoons of coffee in the top of a 
French coffe&-pot or biggin. Pour on three cups of boiling water, 
one cup at a time. Keep the coHee-pot where it will keep hot but 
not boil, — OTer the tea-ketUe or in a pan of hot water. When all 
the water has been used, pom It through again. Serve with scalded 
milk and cream. 

Bla«b CottBB, — Mix one cup of ground coffee, one e^, one 
cup cold water, and one tablespoon carameL Put it in the coffee- 
pot and pour on it three onpa of boiling water. Let it boil ten 
minutes. Serve with block sugar and without cream. This is 
BufBclent for six people. 

lea. — Do not uae water which has stood in the tea-kettle and 
been boiled rapeatedlj. Fill the kettle with fresh water, and use it 
just as it comes to die boiling-point Scald and heat ttte teapot, 
which should be of earthen or china, never of tin. Allow one tea- 
spoon of tea tor one cup of boiling water, two teaspoons for three 
cnpB, and reduce in ihe sanie proportion according to the quanHtf 
desired. Put the tea in the teapot, pour on the boiling water, cover 
closely and place it where it will keep hot, bnt not 1>oil, for five 
minutes. Serve at once. 

Rmslan Tea. — Pat two teaspoons of tea into a fine strainer, 
pour half a cup of boiling wat^r through to cleanse the grounds ; 
then turn ihe grounds into the scalded teapot, pour on one pint of 
freshly boiling water. Keep hot for five minutM. Pot two cubej 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 



of sugar ajid one slice of lemon into the tumblers, half filled with 

broken ice. Pour ou the tea and serve. Hever let Ute tea leaves 

lemain in the tea. If desired cold, pour it.jroin tbe grounds as 

aooQ ae steeped. 

. Chocolate. — Mix half a teaspoon com^atarch, two tablespoons 
/ sugAT and a few grains of salt, in a granite sance'pan ; add two 
' labiespoona of water and two squares of cliocolate, broken or 

grated ; stir over the fire nntil Uie chocolate is melted and smooth. 

Add gradually one cap of boiling water, and when ready to serve 

add three cups of scalded mlUc. 
Stiells. — Put half a cup of cocoa-shells in a granite coFEee-pot 

Pour on one pint of boiling water, boil ten ininutes, and serve with 

oreani and sugar. There is less of the bitter flavor when prepared 

In this way. 

Apple Flitters. 

1 egg. 1 1 saltspoon salt. 
i cup milk. i cup ttonr. 

2 teaspoons melted butter. | 

Beat the egg until very light ; add the milk, butter, salt, and 
enough flour to make almost a drop batter. Beat it thoroughly 
and let it stand an hour or more to swe:11 the flour. Beat again 
just before using. Core and pare three apples, cut in thick slices 
or rings. Sprinkle with sugar and spice. Dip each slice in the 
batter and fry in deep, hot fat Sprinkle with powdered sugar, or 
serve with lemon-sauce. 

Banuna Fritters. — Make a batter the same as for apple frit- 
ters. If very large bananas be used, cut them in half-inch slices. 
Sprinkle with sugar and a few grains qf salt. Dip them in the 
flitter batter and fry a delicate brown. Serve with wine or lemon- 
sauce. 

Celery Fritters. — Cut the celery into inch pieces, and cook 
in boiling salted water until tender. Drain, and stir it into fritter 
batter. Drop by spoonfuls into deep fat 

Scollop Fritters. — Make a fritter batter. Dip the sGoUops in 
the batter, and drop into hot fat. Or chop the scollops fine and fry 
by the tablespoonfnls. 



THE PEESLESa COOK-BOOK. 



Clam Fritters. 



2 e^s, j i saltepoon pepper. 

i cup clam liquor: 1 tablespoon vinegar. 

I tablespoon oliTBKiil. } cup flour, or enough for a 

I saltspoon salt. [ thin batter. 

Select l^e large, ran clams, drain the liquor and use it to make 
the batter. Remove the black end, chop the hard part fine, and 
leave the soft part whole. Mix the batter with the clame, using as 
little as posaible, as the fritters should be thick viith clams, and 
the batter which is left may be kept for eeveral days. If large 
clams can be procured m the shell, steam them til! the shells open, 
remove the membrane, cut oH the black end, dip each whole clam 
into the batter, drain it and fry in deep, hot fat. Fry the chopped 
clams by dropping a spoonful into hot fat. > 

Chicken Fritters. 
1 cap chichen-atock. I } teaspoon salt 

1 heaping tablespoon flour. 1 saltfipoon celery salt. 
1 tabieepoou butt«r. 1 1 cup cold chicken. 

Mix the flour smoothly In the hot butter, add tlie bolhng stock 
gradually, and when smooth add the seasoning. The sauce should 
be qoite thick. Pour half of the sauce into a small, shallow dish 
(buttered). Chop the chicken fine, and when the sauce has crusted 
over a little, spread the chicken evenly over the top. Then cover 
with the remainder of the sauce. Place on ice, and when cold and 
bard cut into inch by two-inch pieces. Dip them quickly in fritter 
batter, and fry in hot, deep fftt. 

To clear Soup-stock. — Remove the fat, and allow Uie white 
and shell of one egg for every quart of stock. If you wish to flavor 
the stock more b ighly, add half a saltspoon of celery -seed and the 
thinnest possible shavings from the rind of half a lemon. Add also 
the lemon-juice, and more salt and pepper if needed. Mis celeiy- 
seed, lemon, egg, etc., with the cold stock, and beat it vrell. If the 
stock be hot when the egg is added, the egg vrill hiirden before it 
has done its work. This is the point where many fail. Set it over 
the fire and stir it all the time until it is hot, to keep the e^ from 
aetUing. Then leave it and let it boil t«n minutes. By this time a 



THE PEEBLESS COOE-BOOE. 



thick Bcimi will have formed, and as it bteaku the liquid will be 
clear and sparkling, like wine, and darker than before. Draw it 
back on the stove, and add half a cup of cold water. Let it Bbmd 
ten minutes, while yoa get your jar, colander, and fine napkin 
ready for straining. Wring your napkin out of hot water, and lay 
it over the colander. Put tke finest wire strainer on the napkin, 
and then pour it all through. This strainer will catob the sctun 
and sheUs which would otherwise clog the napkin. I;et it take its 
own time to drain ; but if yon must hasten it, raise the napkin firat 
at one comer, and then at another, and let the liquid mn down to 
a clean place. This is better than squeezing. This Is all ready to 
serve ae a clear soup by simply heating to the boiling-point. Serve 
with it, in the tureen, thin slices of lemon, a glass of sherry, yolks 
of hard-boiled eggs, or delicate flavored force-meat baits ; or put on 
each plate a poached egg, or a spoonful of grated Fannesan cheese. 

Prom JTri. Haooln'i " BotloH CbokawA." 



Brown Soup-stock. 

I small onioi 



I turnip. 

! stalks celery, 

: sprigs parsley. 



6 pounds hind shin of beet. 

quarts cold water. 
10 whole cloves. 
10 whole peppercorns. 
Bouquet of sweet herbs. 

1 large tablespoon salt. 
Wipe, and cut the meat and bones into small pieces. Put the 

marrow, bones, lialf of the meat and the cold water into the kettle. 
Soak half an hour before beating. Add spices and herbs. Brown 
the onions and the remainder of the meat, and add them to the 
stock ; add the vegetables cut fine. Simmer six or seven hours 
and strain. This stock, if properly made and strained, will be suf- 
ficiently clear for any common soups. But for clear, sparkling 
soups and aspic jelly, it must be clarified with the white of an egg. 
In making soups from this stock, bear this fact in mind : Do not 
waste the stock by boiling in it any material which requires long 
boiling. Vegetables, rice, sago, tapioca, macaroni, vermicelli, etc., 
sbould be cooked separately and then added to the stock, which 
should be brought to (he boiling-point. 

From Mn. Lmcoln'i " Boiton Coot-Book." 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 29 

Glose ig simply clear atock boiled down W one lourth of its 
original amouiit. Put two quarts of ricb, strong stock into a. eauce- 
pan, and boll it uncovered until reduced to one pint. It should 
have a gluey consistency, and will keep a month if put in a cloeely 
coveted jar in a cool place. It is useful in browning meats which 
have not l^een colored by cooking, but which we wish to have the 
appeaiance of having been roasted or browned. 
Jnlleuue Sonp. 
1 quart stock. j ^ teaspoon salt 

1 pint mixed vegetables, j i saltspoon pepper. 
Cut the celery into tliin slices, tiie turnip into quarter-inch dla«^ 
and the carrot into three-quarters by one-eighth inch strips or 
scraws, using only the orange part. Or cut carrot and turnip into 
qnarter-tnch slices, and then into fancy shapes with small vegetable 
cutters. Cover with boiling water, add half a teaspoon of salt, 
and cook until soft, but not long enough to destroy their shapes. 
I.et the quart of stock come to a boil; add the vegetables, the 
water, and more salt if uecessary. Serve hot. In spring and 
summer nse asparagus, peas, and string-beans. It Is quite impor- 
tant that the vegetables should be small and of uniform thickness ; 
but, if any require a longer time to cook, they should be out into 
Bmaller jdeces. Fmm Mn. LinaiMt •• BotUm Coot-Boot." 

Carrot or Creoy Sonp. 
1 qnait rich, brown stock. I 1 teaspoon salt. 
I pint carrot i saltspoon pepper. 

1 teaspoon sugar. | 1 small onion, sliced. 

Wash and scrape the carrot ; shave oS in tbin slices a pint of tlie 
outer part. Do not use the yellow centre. Cook the carrot with 
the onion in boiling salted water to cover, till very tender. Hub 
the carrot tbrough a squash-strainer. Add the stock and heat 
again. Add the sugar, salt, and pepper, and when hot sem 
immedialel7 with cro&tons. 

Coiuoinni& 
2poQnds beef. 2 onions. 

The remainder of a roast chicken. 2 stalks celery. 
3 quarts cold wateE 2 bay leaves. 

1 tablespoon salt 2siirigs thyme. 

1 ourot WbitcB 2 eggs. 



so THE FE£BL£SS COOK-BOOK. 

Cut the meat in email jueces. Discanl Uie stdii and stuffing. 
Cut Uie T^etables fine. Add tbe vegetabiee after ibe meat has 
simmered three hours. Cook till meat is in shreds. Stnun, cool, 
reiroTe the fat and cianfy irith the white of eggs. Add lemon 

Consonuni of CheBtnntB. 

1 qaait beef-«tock. I A few grains of cayenne. 

1 pint chestnulA. | i teaspoon salt. 

Shell Ihe chestnats, parlsoil and remove the inner skin. Cook 
them in boiling salted water to cover until tender, bat not broken. 
Let Ihe water boll nearly all away, then add the slock and season- 
ing, and when hot serre. 

Thictaenlng for Sonps. — Soups aie thickened with flour, 
com-«tarch, or rice-flour, one tablespoon lor a quart of soup, — 
heaping, if flour; scant if rice-flour or corn-starch. Plour is the 
cheapest, bat corn-starch gives a smoother consistency. Mix the 
flour witb a very little cold water or milk until it is a smooth 
paste ; then add more liquid until it can be ponred easily into the 
boiling soup. Kemember to boll the soup fifteen or twenty minutes 
after the thickening is added, that there may be no raw taste of the 
flour. Where butter and flour are used, put the butter in a small 
saucepan, and when melted and babbling stir in the floor quickly 
until smooth (be careful not t« brown the butter for any white 
soup) ; then add gradually about a cup of l^e hot soap, letting it 
boil and thicken as you add the soup. It should be thin enough to 
pour. In vegetable soups, or purifes, as soon as tbe hot butter and 
floor are blended, they may be stirred at once into the sonp. This 
is what is meant In many of the receipta by thickening with batter 
and flour which have been cooked together. The hot batter cooks 
the flour more thoroughly than it can be cooked in any other way. 
When a brown thickening ia desired, melt the batter and let it be- 
come aa brown as it will without burning ; then add all the flour a,\ 
once and stir quickly, that every particle of it may be moistened in 
the hot batter; add the water or soup gradually. Flour that is 
browned while dry, either In the oven or over the fire, colors, but 
does not thicken. A certain amount of moisture, of either fat or 
' water, 1b necessary willi the beat to ihorougUy swell the gntina of 



THE PEERLESS COOE-fiOOK. S! 

Bbirch In the floor. Thickened aoupe ebould he about tlie con^ 
ency of good cream. I'ur^s aie thicker. 

Frott Mrt. Lincoln'* -Bo^on Oa^BeOt,'' 



Wlilt« Sonp (from Chicken), 



8 or 4 pounds fowL 
3 quarts cold-water. 
1 tahleepoon aatt. 
6 
1 



tablespoon batter. 

tablespoon cum-Btarch, 

teaspoon salt 
. saltspooa white pepper. 
2egg8. 



Singe, clean, and wipe the fowl. Cntofl the legs and wings, and 
disjoint the body. Put !t ou to boil in cold water. LQt it come 
to a boil quickly, because we wish to nse the meat as well as the 
wat«r, and skim thoroughly. The meat maj be removed when 
tender, and the bones put on to boil again. (Use the meat for 
croquettes or other made dishes.) Add the salt and vegetables. 
Simmer until rsduced one half. Strain, and when cool remove the 
fot For one quart of stock allow one pint of cream or n:ilk. If 
cream, use a little less flour for tMckening. Boil the stock ; add 
the butter and flour, cooked together, and the seasoning. StrMn 
it over the eggs, stirring as you pour, or tlie eggs wJJl curdle. The 
liquor in wMcb a fowl or chicken has been boiled, when not wanted 
for any oUier purpose, should be saved for white soup. If the 
vegetables and spices are not boiled with the fowl, fry them five 
minutes without burning, add them to the stock, and simmer flf. 
teeu minutes. Fnmt Mrt. UncoWi •• Botton Caoi-Book.'' 

VeaL^Stock. 

pound knuckle of veaL 

4 quarts cold water. 

1 tablespoon salt. 1 1. umuu. 
6 pepp^coms. 1 

Wipe the veal, cut the meat fine and break the honea. Put 
it Into the kettle with the cold water. Skim as it boUs, and when 
clear add the seasoning. Simmer until the bones axe clean and 
the liquor reduced one half. StnUu, and when cool remove tha 
bt. TJse it for white or delicate soiqia. 



32 THB PEEBLESS COOK-BOOK. 

Sago or Tapioca Soup. 

i onp Baeo. 1 1 cop hot cream. 

1 " cold water. 2 eggs, Tolka. 

1 qiMrt Teal-stock. | Salt and pepper. 

Soak the sago in cold water an hour, then psnr on one pint 
<d boiling water, and cook in a double botler. When tender, stir It 
into the hot veal-atock. Ijet it simmer ten minutes, add tlie aeo- 
aoning and cream. Beat the yolks ol the eggs light, and mix Ibem 
wltli ft cup of the boiling broth. Turn into the tureen and stir 
briskly as yon ponr in the hot broth. 

Havana Bonp.— Grate one cocoannt and almmer h In cme 
qoart of veal.«tock lor half an hour. (Veal-stock la made by 
simmering two pounds of veal bones in two quarts of cold wat(v 
unUl ledaced one half, then strained.) Strain the stock to remove 
tlie cocoanut, and add to the Uquor one pint of cream. Beat again, 
and when boiling add one heaphig tablespoon corn-starch mixed 
smoothly with one tablespoon of hot butter. Season with salt and 
white pepper. Beat the yolks of two eggs, add one cup of the 
broth, pour Into Uie tureen, turn in the bolllDg broth, and miJt 
welL Serve with boiled rice. 

Par6e of Beet and Tegetablea. 
4 pounds be«f. i cup split peaa. 

2 " bone. i omona. 

6 quarts cold water. 1 cup chopped celeij. 

1 tablespoon salt. 1 " tomatoes. 

1 " mlied herbs. 

Select lean juicy meat from the neck, and the bones from the 
hind shin. Split the bone and cpt the meat fine. Put them with 
the salt Into tjie cold water, with the herbs tied in a piece of chees» 
cloth. Simmer fonr hours, tiien remove the bones and herbs. 
Cook the peas in one qnart of boiling water one hour, add them 
. with ttte other vegetables to the meat and cook another hour. 
Then strain through a pur^e-stnUner, nibbing through as junch 
of the pulp as will go easily. Mix it well and set away to cooL 
When ready to use remove the fat, and heat to the boiUng.])oint 
Add more sah if needed. 



THE PBEHLES8 COOK-BOOK. 33 

Tomato Sonp irlth Stocb. — Take the bones ajid triminiiiga 
from a loast-beef dumer and any othet Hcrape of meat or bone ;ou 
m&y chance to ha^e. Put them tn a kettle and cover with cold 
water, twice as much water as meat. Add two onions, six whole 
cloves, sii peppercoma, a bit of celery-root if you have It, and a 
tablespoon of salt. When it has cooked four hours, skim oS all 
the fat^ and add six tomatoes sliced, or one quart of canned to-* 
matoes. Cook another hour, (hen skim out the bones and meat, 
and stnun the liquor throngh e, por^e-strainer, rubbing all the 
tomat^vpulp through. Heat again and thicken with flour, one 
tableispoon each of batter and flour for every quart of broth. 
Add more eeuotiiiig if needed, and serve with toasted bread or 
crackers. 

Tnrtcey Soup, — Take the bones and scraps left from roast 
turkey or chicken, or any kind of game. Scrape the meat from 
the bones, and lay aside any nice pieces, no matter how smalL 
Remove all the stuffing, and keep Lhat by itself. Break the bones, 
and pack them closely in & kettle. Cover with cold water. Addi 
one small onion, sliced, one teaspoon of salt, and a little pepper- 
Simmer two or three houttn, or until the bones are clean. Strain, 
and remove the fat. Put the liquor on to boil a^ln, and add for 
every quart of liquor one cup of cold meat, cut into small pieces, 
and half a cup of the stuffing. Or omit the stufBng and thicken 
tLe soup with flour. Simmer till Uie meat Is tender, and serve at 
once. If there be a much larger proportion of meat and stuffing 
left, use it in making scalloped turkey or croquettes. This Is much 
better than to boil meat, bones, and stuffing together. In that case 
the stufEng absorba the oil, and gives a very strong, disagreeable 
flavor to the soup. fy^^ _«„. LincoiTi-s " Bottoa OwtSool-" 

Crombo Soup. — Cut up a chicken as for n fricassee, and dredge 
it thickly with flour. Fry a sliced onion in bacon fat, remove the 
onion and brown iho chicken ; brown also one qnait of sliced okra 
pods. Plac« the chicken, onion, and okra in a kettle, cover witti 
boiling water, add one quart of sliced tomatoes. Simmer until tlie 
chicken Is tender. Remove the lai^er bones and all the fat Add 
salt, cayenne, and a very little sugar. Serve It without stndning 

and witb boiled lioa. 



84 THE PEEBLESS COOK-BOOK. 

Gombo Soup with OyBter*. 

1 pint veal or chicken stock. 1 1 tablespoon floor. 
I quart oyatera. Salt and cayenne. 

1 onion, minced. 2 tablespoons of fil^, 

2 tablespoons batter. | or powaeied saasafrss leaTes. 
Fry the onion in tbe bntter. Drain the oysters and heat the 

Uqoor with the Tcal-stock. Stir the flour into tlie hot batter and 
add a little of the liquor. When it thickens and is smooth stir 
it into the broth, add the salt and cayenne and the oystare. Cook 
till the oystei-s are plump. Wet the fll^e powder with the broth 
and stir into the' soup. It should be quite thick and mocilagiitoaB. 
Serve at once. 

Ox-Tatl Soap. 

2 ox-tails. 1 1 tablespoon salt. 

1 laiee onion. 1 " mixed heilM. 

1 tablespoon beef-drippings. 4 clones. 

4 quarts cold water. 1 4 peppercorns. 

Wash and cat up t^ ox-ttdls, separating them at the JolntB. 
Cat the onion fine and fry it in the hot beef-drippings. When 
slightly browned, draw Oie onion to one side of the pan, and brown 
half of the ox-tailB. Put the fried onion and ox-tails in the soup- 
kettle, and cover with four quarts of cold wat«r. Tie the cloves, 
peppercorns, and herbs in a small piece of strainer-cloth, and add 
them to the soup. Add tbe salt, and simmer three or four houis, 
or until the meat separates from the bones, and tbe gristly portions 
are perfectly soft. Select some of the nicest joints to serve with 
the soup. Skim ofi tbe fat, and add more salt and pepper, if 
needed. Strain and serve very hot. If vegetables are served with 
this sonp, add one pint of mixed vegetables, — onion, oairot, 
turnip, and celery. Cut them into small pieces, or into fancy 
shapes with a vegetable-cutter. Add them to the liquor after 
straining, and boil twenty minutes, or until tender. 

Frvm Mn. lAaeottit " BatUm Coot-Boot." 

Sweet-Corn Soup. 

1 pint corn^mlp, 1 2 eggs. 

1 " milk. 1 teaspoon flnear. 

2 tablespoons butter. } " salt. 

1 " flour. 1 1 saltspoon pepper. 

Cat tbiOD^ tbe middle of eadi row of kernels and sciape oat 



THE PEEitLESS COOK-BOOK. 35 

the pulp. Pat the cobs on to boil in cold water to cover, and cook 
baJf on hoar. Remove tbem, add the corn-pulp to the water altd 
cook ten minutes. Turn out into a strainer and press all the com- 
pnlp through. Fat on to boll again, add the Eeasoniog and the 
milk, thicken with the flour, which should first be mixed smoothl7 
with the hot batter. Cook five minnt«B, and aiS you take it from 
the fire stii in the well-beaten e^s. 

Tomato Bisque, 

1 quart tomatoes. I i cup butter. \^ 

i teaspoon soda. Salt and pepper. ', 

i cup cracker^^rumbs. 1 1 quart boiling milk. 

Stew the tomatoes, add the soda. SUr well and strain. Heat 
'again and add the cracker, seasoning, batter and the boiling milk. 

Baked Bean Soup. — Take the cold baked beans, add twice 
the quantity of cold water, and let them simmer until soft When 
nearly dooe add half as much tomato. Hub them through a pur^e- 
Btr^ner. Add more water till the right consistency, season to 
taste with salt, pepper, and mustard. Heat again and serve with 
toasted crackers or fried dice of bread. 

Cream of Cauliflower Soup. — Heat one {lint of chicken or 
veal stock, one pint of milk, and half a cup of sweet cream. When 
boiling, thicken with one tablespoon of fine whole wheat flour, add 
salt and white pepper to taste. Cook half a cauliflower in boiling 
salted water about twenty minutes. Cut off the little flowerets, 
using none of the stalk, put in enough to thicken the broth. 
Corn Chowder. 

1 quart raw sweet com. 2 tablespoons flour. 

1 pint potato dice. 1 pint milk. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 pint crofltons. 

1 aaltspoon pepper. 3 hard-boiled eggs. 

} cup butter. 
Cat each row of kernels, and scrape the raw com from the oob 
Boil the cobs twenty minutes in water tb cover. Fare and cut the 
potatoes into sm^l dice. Pour boiling water over them, drain and 
let them stand while the corncobs are boiling. Remove the cobs, 
add the potatoes, salt, and pepper. When the potatoes are nearly 
done, add the com and milk and cook five minutes. Cook the 



36 TIIE PBBKLE8S COO K-BOOK. 

floor In the hot butter, add one cap of Uie com liquor, and when 
thick etir it into the chowder. Add the i^ga, whitas chopped fine, 
and yolks rubbed through & atrainer. Serve with cro&tons. 
Pnrie of Gbestnats. 

1 pint cheBtnuta. 1 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 pint milk. Salt and pepper. 

1 cup cream. 1 1 egg. 

SheU and blanch the chestnuts. Cook in boiling aftlted water 
to cover, till very Boft, Mash them in the water left in the pan, and 
rub them through a fine strainer into the milk. Heat again, add 
the cream, eaJt and pepper to taste, and when ready to serve stir 
the beaten egg in quickly and serve at once with crofltons. Add 
more milk if too thick. 

Slook Ojster Bisque. — One cup codfish soaked in cold water 
and picked into tialf-inch bits. Put it viith one pint of cold water 
and one pint of strained tomato and boil twenty minutes. Add 
one saltspoon of aoda, one pint of milk, one tablespoon of butter 
melted and mixed with one tablespoon of com-*tarcb, one saltapoon 
of wliite pepper. Boil up once and serve with fried bread. 
Consommd of Oyster 



1 tablespoon lemon-juice. 
i saltapoon white pepper. 
1 large tablespoon butter. 
1 " " com-^tarcb. 

I cup cream. 



1 quart oysters. 
1 " veal-stock. 
A bit of celery-root. 
1 teaspoon scilt. 

J inch blade mace, 
saltspoon cayenne. 
Parboil the oysters till the liquor flows. Dnun and put the 
liquor on to boil with the veal^took, celery, and mace. Chop the 
oysters, remove as much of (he dark substance aa posaible, mash 
them te a fine pulp and rub through a pur^e-atrainer into the 
Block. Add the seaaoning. Cook the com-starch in the hot butter, 
add the hot cream, and when smooth stir it into lie broth. Cook 
five minutes; add more seaaoning i( needed, and strain into the 
Pnr^e of Clams. 



1 quart of clams, 

2 bay leaves. 
2 tablesMons minced onion. 
1 pint mUk. 

I teaepooa s^t. 



i saltspoon pepper. 
i " cayenne. 

2 tablespoons butter. 
2 " corn^taioti. 



THE PBEELES3 COOK-BOOK. 37 

Sepai&te the soft from ttie bald part of the clams, and remove 
Ae dark eabstance. Cat the hard parta fine and cook haU an 
honr, with the bay leaves and onion in water to cover. Strain It 
and put the water on to boil again with the milk. Cook the soft 
pftTta in the clam liqnor or in water for five minutes, then rub them 
through a pur€e-etnuner into the milk. Add the aalt, pei)per, and 
cream, and when boiling thicken it with the corn-starch stirred 
smoothly into the hot butter. Boil five minutes, and serve very 
hot 

Sbrlmp Soup. — Parboil one quart of oyst«rs, strajn (he liquor, 
and put it on to boll, with one pint of water or veal-stock. Thicken 
with one tablespoon of flour cooked in one tablespoon of hot batter, 
and add salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste. Prepare one pint of 
canned shrimps, remove the black vein and cut them Sue. Add 
them to tbe soup. Simmer five minutes, then put in the oysters 
and half a cup of rich cream, and when hot serve. 

Crab Soup. — Remove the meat from six crabs and chop it fine. 
Boil one quart of chicken or veal-stock or milk. Boil with it one 
slice of onion. After ten minut«s remove tbe onion and thicken 
the broth with one tablespoon of fiour, cooked in one large table- 
spoon of hot butter. Add one teaspoon of salt, one saltspoon of 
white pepper, and a few grains of cayenne, and one cup of hot 
strained tomatoes. Add the chopped crab meat, and when hot 
serve at once. 

Spanish Ham and Bgss. — Cut stale bread into half-inch slices 
and soak until soft in one cup of milk, mixed with one beaten egg. 
Fry a delicate brown on a well-buttered griddle. Mix one cup of 
minced ham and one third of a cup of soft bread-crumbs with 
cream to moisten, or with the remaining custard. Heat it and 
season vrith cayenne. Spread this mixture on each slice. Cook 
several eggs In wat«r just below the boiling-point until firm enough 
to keep in. shape after removing the shell. Put a whole egg on 
each slice and serve at once. 

Turkish E^cs. — Chop one cup of cold roast turkey, add half 
tbe quantity of bread-crumbs, season to taste; add a little gravy 
or hot water, and warm it in hot butt«r until it absorbs the butt«r 



38 THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 

Spread It on scaUop^ells or small round dishes. Break an ^g 
ou top ol eacb. spiinkle vith salt, and set in the oven until Qte ^g 
is firm. Serve at once. 

Egga Poached In Tomnt^ieg Stew slowly for t«n minutes 

hair a can of tomatoes and one small onion, cut flue. Season 
highly viith salt and pepper. Break six eggs into a bowl without 
beating, and when everything else la ready to serve slip them into 
the hot tomatoes. Lift the white carefuDy with a fork, as it cooks, 
until it is all firm ; then prick the yolks and let them mii with the 
tomato and while. It should be quite soft, but with the red to- 
matoes, t^ white and yellow of t^e egg quite distinct. Serve at 
once on toast j^^rvm Mti. ZiiKoMt " Boitm Cook-Bix^" 

Gtusie>a Omelet. 

1 cup scalded milk. 1 3 eggs. 

. ' 1 teaspoon fiour. Salt and pepper. 

' 1 " butter. I 

Cook the flour in the hot butter and stir it into the boiling millr ; 
add the seasoning. When cool add the yolka of e^^ well beaten, 
then the whites. Pour into a Ehallow pan, well buttered. Bake in 
a quick oven, turn out on a cloth, roll up, and serve at once cut in 

Celery Omelet. 

2 eggs. I 2 tablespoons chopped celery. 
2 tableapoona milk. | Salt and pepper to taate. 

Beat the yolks till thick, add milk, celery, and seasoning. Beat 
the whites stiS and fold and cut them inte the yolks. Cook in bot- 
bnttered pan till brown underneath. Place in the oven till dry on 
top. Fold over and turn out. 

Salmon Omelet. — Make the same as celery omelet, using 
quarter of a cup of finely minced cold salmon in place of celery. 
A Sontberu Omelet. 
i cup breakfast bacon. I i small apple or peach. 
J " tomato. 4 eggs. 

i tAblespoon onion. j Pepper. 

Chop the first four ingredients and cook them slowly in a smaU 
frying-pan. Beat the yolks, add a shake of pepper and the cooked 
mixture. Add the wMtea beaten stiff and cook until brown. 



THE PEEBLESS COOK-BOOK. 39 

Bread Omelet. — Line a buttered scallop-diBliniQi tbin slices 
of cold tamb or veaL Soak one cup ol soft breBd-crumbs in one 
cap of hot inilTt Add one tablespoon of butter, one teaspoon of 
chopped parsley, and one teaspoon of fine chopped onion, a little 
aalt and pepper and two eggs well beaten. Pour this over the 
meat and bake abont fifteen minutes, oi until brown. Serve at 
once in the dish in which it is baked. 

Derllled Eggs. — Chop the whites of hard-boiled «ggs very 
fine ; sprinkle with salt and cayenne pepper. Lay aside one yolk 
and mb the remainder throngh a fine strainer. Mix with them a 
little miied mustard, melted butter and vinegar enough to moisten. 
Mix thia thoroughly with the whites, and pour it over a bed of 
watercresses. Kub the whole yolk through a fine strainer over 
the centre. 

FlorenUne Eggs. 
2 tablesp. chopped mnsbrooms. 1 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 " " onion. 1 cup white stock or milk. 

2 " butter. 1 6 h^d-IioLled eggs. 

Cook Qie mnshtoom and onion in the butter slowly for five 
minutes, being careful not to brown them ; add ihe flour, tnir well, 
then add the stock gradnally. Cut the whites of the e^s in rings 
one fourHi inch thick and chop the remainder. Cut the yolks in 
quarters. Mix the yolka and the chopped vfhites with the mush- 
room sauce. Turn out on a platter and lay ihe rings on top. 
Garnish with parsley. 

Egg Sandwiches.— Chop the white of baid-boiled eggs very 
fine. Mash the yolks and mix (hem with melted butter, salt, and 
pepper. Then mli all with the chopped whites and spread it on 
bread. Take a long narrow loaf of bread, shave off the crust till the 
loaf is sliaped like a cylinder. Then slice as thin as possible from 
the end. Spread vrith the egg mirture ; put two together and ar- 
range them on a plate, one overlapping another. 

To Prepare Fish lor Cooking. To Clbah a Fish. — If the 
flab have scales, remove them before opemng. Scrape vrith a 
small, sharp knife from the tiUI to the head; hold the knife flat 
and slanting, lealjng it on the fish, tliat the scales may be taken 



40 THE PEEHLBS8 COOK-BOOK. 

npoa the knife ; scrape s1dw1j>, that the scales may not fly ovet 
everyOilng near, and tlnse the knife often in cold water. When 
the flah is to be served wliole, do not remove the head and taU. 
Smelte and small fish served whole are opened under the gills, and 
the contents squeezed out b; preasiug from the middle with the 
thumb and finger. I^rge fish are split open from the gills half- 
way down the lower part of the body, the entrails removed, and 
the inside scraped and cleaned. Open far enoii^ to remove all 
the blood on the backbone. Many leave the sound, which is the 
white part adhering to the bone ; but it is better to remove it. 

From Mrs. Ltneoln'i " Boilon COob-Book." 

To Skw * FiBH. — Cut a thin narrow strip down the backbone, 
taking off the dorsal fln. Then open the lower part half-way down. 
Slip the Icnife under and up through the bony part of the gills, and 
hold this bony part between the thumb and finger, and strip tlte 
skin ofl toward the ttdl. Then do the same on the other side. 
Small fiah, like mackerel and white.fiah, when dressed for broiling, 
should be split through the back. 

To Bone a Fish. — Clean, and strip off the skin; lay the fish 
flat on a board ; begin at the t^, and run the knife in under the 
flesh close to the bone, and scrape it very clean from the tione, 
holding the flesh carefully, not to break the flakes. When the 
flesh on one side is removed, slip the knife under the bone on the 
other side, and raise the bone, leaving the flesh on the board ; 
then pull out all the small bones left in the flesh, which you can 
easily feet with the fingers. Fiah with many fine bones, like shad 
and hening. are not boned ; but from cod, cusk, mackerel, white- 
fish, and haddock they may be easily removed. 

From Mn. lAneoln'a " Boalon Cook-Book." 

Boiled Fish. — Clean and cut in pieces for serving. Put one 
cup vinegar, one quart water, two onions, the rind of half a lemon, 
one tablespoon of salt, and three bay-leaves in a kettle. Boil fif- 
teen minutes. Strain and put the liquor on to boU again, and 
when boiling add the pieces of fiah and cook until done. Thicken 
one cup of the boiling liquor with one tableapoon of flour and 
butter, and pour it over the fish. 



THE PKBKLESS COOK-BOOK. 41 

CoU Boiled Ftsh. — Boll one tablespoon each of whole cloven, 
allspice, and peppercorns in one pint of vinegar for twenty minutes. 
When cold poor It over cold boiled fish. Let It stand several hours. 
Drain the fish from the vinegar, and serve as a relish for luncheon 

Broiled Sbod. — Clean and split down the back. Sprinkle salt 
aO over it, and let it stand over night. Broil over a clear fire and 
cook the flesh side till brown, and the other aide till the skin is 
crisp. Spread with soft butter, salt, and two lablespoona ol Worces- 
tershire sauoe or walnut ketchup. 

Broiled Fresh HackereL — Clean, split dovm the back, 
sprinkle with salt and lemon-joice. Broil on a well-greaaed grid- 
iron until the inside flesh is wliit* and the outside nicely browned. 
Open the broiler, leaving the skin side uppermost. Put a platter 
over the fish, invert, and remove the gridiron. Season with butter, 
salt, and WorcesteKhire sauce or lemon-juice. 

Baked Fish. — Spread some butter over a dripping-pan, Bpimkls 
over it one onion minced fine, lay on this a thin slice of halibut or 
any small whole fish, split down the middle. Add one tablespoon 
of vinegar and spread thickly with butler. Bake until done, the 
time depending upon the thickness of the ftsh. Remove to a 
platter. Add flour to the butter left in the pan, and when well 
mixed add water until it is the desired consistency ; add three or 
four minced mushrooms or pickles. Pour this over the fish. Gar- 
nish with lemon-points and parsley. 

Haddock StaflM with Oysters. — Remove the head, t^, 
shin, and bone, keeping each half in shape. Lay the fish on a 
platter and spread oysters between the layers of fish. Dip each 
oyster first in buttered cracker-crumbs. Press the edgea of the 
fish together to have it like a whole fish. Spread softened butter 
all over the top and sprinkle with buttered cracker-crumbs. Set 
the platter across a pan of hot water and bake about half an hoar. 
When ready to serve, garnish the dish with red cabbage mixed 
with butter dressing. 

Baked Shad. — Have the fish split as for broiling. Remove 
the backbone, and as many of the fine hones as your time and 



42 THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 

pMience will allow. Uake a stoQiiig witL one cup o{ bread moist- 
ened in butter and hot tomato aeasoned with salt, pepper, chopped 
pttnley, uid a UtUe onion-jiiice. Spread this over the flsb ; sew 
the edgea together. Put several slices of salt poA on tiie pan, lay 
the fisb on these ; mb all over with soft butter, dredge with flow:, 
and bake abont forty minutes, or till brown. Bemove to a platter, 
spread with butter, and Hprinkle with chopped panley and lemon- 
Baked Flih. — Clean, wipe, and dry the fish ; rub with salt ; 
stuff and sew. Cut gashes two inches apart on each side. Skewer 
into shape of S, and put it on the fish sheet. Hub all over with 
soft butter, salt and pepper. Put narrow stripe of fat salt pork in 
the gashes. Dredge well with flour. Put it into a hot oven with- 
out water ; bast« when the flour is browned, and baste often after- 
wards. Bemove it carefully from the fish sheet, and place It on a 
hot platter. Draw out the strings or skewer, wipe off all the water 
or fat which runs from the fish, and remove the pieces of pork. 
Fonr HoUandaise sauce around (not over) the tish, or serve a 
drawn-butter sauce flavored with lennon, in a sauce-boat ; and pile 
Saratoga potatoes lightly around the fish. Garnish the head of the 
flsb vridt paisley or watercresses. 

SttUBng for Baked Fish 

1 teaspoon cht^ped parsley. 

1 1 " capers. 
1 " pepper. 1 " pickles. 

1 teaspoon chopped onion. ) f cup melted butter. 
This makes a dry, crumbly stuffing. If a moist stuffing be de- 
sired, use stale (not dried) bread-crumbs, and moisten vdth one 
beaten egg and the butter, or moisten the crackers with warm 
water. 

Otstbb Srvmsa. — One pint of oyst«rs, one cup of seasoned and 
buttered cracker-crmnbB. Drain and roll each oyster in the crumbs. 
¥01 the fish with the oysters, and sprinkle the remainder of the 
crumbs over the oysters, jy^ ^„, uneoMi "Botlon Cook-Boat." 



THE PEEBLESS COOE-BOOE. 43 

Fresh Codflsh.— Alaigecod, orany wholefish toolaigefora 
email lamOy, may be cooked as follone ; Remove the skin and 
bones from the middle Emd thickest part; stuQ and hake. Dse the 
bones and head for a chowder. Cut the tajl-piece into Bilces, salt 
well, and fry or broil them. Or CTimp th^m by soaking in salted 
water; Uien simmer in water with salt and lemon-juice, and serve 
cold with Tartare sance. ^vob, un. IMoalW* "Botton Coek-£<xt." 

Fried Cod or Haddock. — Remove the skin (ask the fish- 
dealer to remove It for you), cut In square pieces and r 



I backbone. Scrape all tlie fish from the bones, and press it with 

1 VV, a knife into tJie larger pieces- Season with salt and pepper, and 

' -^ roll in fine wliile com-meal. Fry several siioes of salt pork, enougli 

to have a cup of fat. lay the flsh in the hot fat, cook brown on 

each side. Drain on soft paper and serve boL Spread with butWr, 

and garnish with slices of temon. 

Stewed fish with OyHters. — Cut the flsh in pieces for serv- 
ing, remove Uie skin and bone. Spread a thick coating of butt«r 
over the bottom of a stew-pan, lay in the flsh, season each layer 
with salt and pepper, pour on boiling water to more than cover, 
add a txhlespoonful of lemon-juice or vinegar, and simmer fifteen or 
twenty minutes, or till the fish is cooked but not broken. Add a 
tablespoonful of floor cooked in a, tahlespoonful of hot butter ; mix 
' It well with the boiling liquid withont breaking the fish. Add a 
qnart of oysters, or enoi^h to equal the amount of flab. Simmer 
five minutes, or until the oysters are plump. Add more seasoning 
and serve very hot 

Conrboulllon, 

3 onions. I i cup vinegar- 

2 tablespoons butter. I pint beefstock. 

1 . " flour. 2 pounds fish sliced. 

1 cup claret, or | 4 tomatoes. 

Fry the sliced onions in the butter in the bottom of tbe stew- 
pan ; be careful not to bum them ; add the flour, mii well ; add 
gradually the stock, and, when smooth, put in half the Ssh, then 
half the tomatoes peeled and sliced, and the wine ; then another 
lay^r of fish and tomatoes. Simmer half an hour. The flsh 
fhould be skinned aud boned. 



44 THE PEEELESS COOK-BOOK. 

A Flah Tidbit.— Take what Is left of boiled or baked fresh 
fish, remove the bones and skin, and warm it in hot milk enough 
to moisten. Turn it out on a plattei. Poach three or four e^s, 
lay them on Uie fish. Mii one tablespoon ol chopped parsley, a 
few grains of cayenne, a little salt, with two tablespoons of builer 
melted. Four this evenly over Qie eggs, and aerre at once and 
very hot 

Blsh and Macaroni Scollop.— -Put into a buttered baking- 
dish, in layers, equal parts of cold cooked fish and cold boiled 
it fine. For one pint of the mixture make one cup of 
Fry one teaspoon of minced onion in one table- 
spoon butter ; add one even tablespoon flour and one cup of stewed 
tomato. Salt and pepper to taste. Strain it over the fish. Cover 
with three fourths of a cup of cracker -crumba moistened in melted 
butter. Bake until the crumbs are brown. 

Vish Cakes. — Take what is left of pickedmp salt codfish, also 
the cream; add twice as much cooked potato and more salt and 
pepper. Chop very fine, and mash imUl potato and fish are thor- 
oughly blended. Add more potato or soft bread-crumbs If too 
moist, an e^ if i«o dry. Shape into small flat cakes. Boll them 
in flour, and fry them in hot salt-pork fat 

Salmon Tlmbalea, 

1 pound can of salmon. 1 1 tablespoon lemon-juice. 

^ cup soft bread-crumbs. } saltspoon cayenne. 

1 tablespoon butter melted. | i eggs. 
Bemove the bones and sldn and chop Ok salmon fine. Hlx with 
it the crumbs, butter, and seasoning, and moisten with the beaten 
eggs. Pack it closely in small buttered tin cups, set them in a pan 
of hot water, and cook in the oven half an hour. Tutu out on a 
platter, pour Bollandaise sauce around them, and stick a sprig of 
parsley in each timbale. 

Potted mackerel. — Clean, remove the akin, split in halves, 
cnt each half into three piecea, and remove all the larger bones. 
Mix two tablespoons salt and half a saltspoon of cayenne, aoid rub 
it into the fish. Put the' fish in ^ stone jar, and sprinkle each 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 45 

layer with a mixture of whole cloyca, peppercormi, allspice, and 
cinnamon. Add vinegar enougli to cover tbe fisL Tie a clotJi over 
And cover tightly. Place the jar in a, liettle of hot water with a 
iJrret under the iaf, and ketip it on the stove all day. Keep the 
water just below the hoiling-point. An excellent relish for tea. It 
may be coohed in a very moderate oven. 

To Open a Liobst«r, — Wipe the shell with a wet cloth. Break 
oB die large clawH, separate the tail fiom the body aad the body 
from the shell, leaving the stomach, or lady, in the shell ; then ra- 
move the small claws. Save the green liver and coral. Crush the 
tail by pressing the sides together, ttien puil it open on the under 
side, and take out the meat in one piece. Draw back the flesh on 
Qke upper end oi this meat, and remove the intestinal canal, which 
runs the entire length. This is sometimes black, and sometimes 
the color of the meat. Break oB all the gUls on the body before 
picking the meat from the joints, as they are liable to drop oS with 
the meat, and are too woolly to be palatable. The gills, stomach, 
and intestines are the only parts not eaten. Break the body in the 
middle, and pick the meat ^om the joints, being careful not to take 
any of the bones. When the shells of the large claws are thin, 
cut ofi a strip down the sharp edge, and^remove the meat whole, 
or break them by hammerii^ on the edge. Never pound them in 
the middle, as that crushes the meat If the lobster-shell is to be . 
used for serving the meat, cut down the under side of the tail with 
a sharp knife, and remove the meat without breaking the outside 
shell. Trim the inside, and clean the shell. Tfie body-sheh may 
'be cleaned, spUt in halves, and trimmed with sharp euissors into 
the shape of clam-aheUs. promMrt. Lincoln't "Soiton Cook-Book." 
Stewed Iiobst«r. 
2 medium lobsters. I i teaspoon salt. 

1 pint milk. i saltspoon cayenne. 

2 tablespoons butt«r. i lemon, or 

2 " flour. 1 2 tablespoons vinegar. 

Open die lobsters and cut the meat in small pieces. BoU thit 
milk; melt the butter; add the flour, and when smooth add the 
boiling milk gradually. Add the seasoning and the lobster. Let 
it simmer 



46 THE PEEKLEBS COOK-BOOK. 

A Clam-Bake. — An impromptu clam-bake may be had at any 
time at low Ude along the coast where clams are found. If yon 
wish to have genuine fun, and to know what an appetite one can 

liave tor the bivalves, make up a pleasant party and dig for the 
clainB yourselves. A short thick dreBs, shade hat, rubber boots, — 
01, better still, no boots at all, if you can bring your mind to the 
comfort of bare feet, — a emaU garden trowel, a fork, and a basket, 
and you are ready. , Let those who are not diggbig gather a large 
pile of driftwood and seaweed, always w be found along the shore. 
Select a dozen or more large atones, and of diem make a level floor ; 
pile the driftwood upon them, and make a good hrlsk Gre to heat the 
stones thoroughly. When hot enoikgh to crackle as you sprinkle 
water upou them, brush ofi the embers, letting them fall between 
the siones. Put a Ihin layer of seaweed on the hot stones, U> keep 
the lower clams from boming. Rin^ the clams in salt water by 
plunging the basket which contains them in the briny pools near 
bv. File them over the hot stones, heaping them high in the 
centre. Cover with a thick layer of seaweed, and a piece of old 
canvaa, blanket, carpet, or dry leaves, to keep in tie steam. The 
time for baking will depend upon Ihe size and quantity of the 
clams. Peep in occasionally at those around the edge. When the 
shells are open, the clams are done. They are delicious eaten 
from the shell, with no other sauce than their ovm briny sweet- 
ness. Melted butter, pepper, and vinegar should be ready for 
those who wish them; then all may "fall to." Fingers must be 
used. A Rhode-Islander would laugh at any one trying to use a 
knife and fork. Full off the thin sMn, take tiiem by the black end, 
dip them in the prepared butter, and bite off close to the end. If 
you swallow them whole, they will not hurt you. At a genuine 
Rhode Island clam-bake, blue-fish, lobsters, crabs, sweet x>otatoes, 
and ears of sweet-com in their gauzy husks, are baked with the 
clams. The clam steam gives them a delicious flavor. Brown 
bread is served with the clams, and watermelon for dessert cont 

pleteB the feast From Mn. Ztncoln'a " BoiUm Oooh-Book." 

Scalloped Shrimps. 
4 tomatoes. j i teaspoon salt 

i pint shrimps. Cayenne. 

2 tablespoons butter. Bread-crumbs. 

2 " vinegar. i 



' THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. > 47 

Peel and slice the tomatoes, "liT witli them the Beasonii^ and 
tlie shrimps. Stew them ten minutes, thea fill scallop^hells 
^th the mixture. Sprinkle buttered crumbs over Om tops, and 
bake on the grate till atightly browned. 

Scrambled Scollops. — Boil hali a pint of scollops till tender. 
Drain and chop or pick them apart. Mix them with two well- 
beaten eggs, two tablespoons of milfc, and salt and pepper to taste. 
Cook in hot butter in a frying-pan, stirring as they thicken, and 
when the ^g is firm turn out on toast- 
Oyster Stew. — Boil one cup of strained oyster-liquor and halt 
a cup of water. Skim, add haU a teaepoon of salt, haU a saltspoou 
of pepper, one tablespoon of butter, and one tablespoon rolled 
cracker. When it begins to boil, add one quart of oysters. Boil 
one minute. Put half a cup of cream or cold milk into the toieen, 
and poor the boiling stew over it. 

Orlddled. Oysters. — Select laige oysters, dry them in a cloth. 
Have a griddle hot and slightly greased. Mix a largs tablespoon 
of butter with salt, cayenne, and lemon-joice ; put tbem in a shal- 
low dish near the griddle. Put the dry oysters on tlie hot griddle, 
brown on each side, lay tliem in the butter. Serve at once. 

Fancy Roast. — Melt one tablespoon of butter, add two tea- 
spoons of flour, and, when smooth, add one cup of cream. Season 
with salt and pepper. Toast four slices of bread and lay them on 
a platter. Boast twenty-five oysters in the shells, in the oven, till 
the shells open. Take out the oysters, pour the liquor over the 
toast ; then add the oysters, and pour the cream orer the whole. 

Oyster Omelet, — Put six large or twelve small oysters in a 
pan over the fire and heat until the jnice flows. Dnun off the 
jnice and cut eacb oyster into small bits. Season with salt and 
cayenne. Cook one teaspoon of flour in one tablespoon of butter, 
add the oyster-liquor. Stir this Into the well-beaten yolks of three 
eggs, add the oysters, and the whites beaten till stiS, Cook in a 
hot omelet-pan, and when brown underneath place on the grate In 
the oven to dry the top. Fold over and turn out 



48 THE PEBBLESS COOK-BOOK. 

Devilled Oysters. — DraJn the oysters, cover Uiem with lemon- 
juice, melUd butter, and a Bprinkling of cajenne. Let theai stand 
fifteen minutes, turn them occaaiDnally. Up tLem in fine crumbs, 
beaten egg and cnunbs, and fi; In deep lat. 

Scalloped Oyst^ra. — Heat the strained liqnor from a qoart of 
oystenvrilh one cap of milk. Helt in it quarter of a cup of butter. 
Cover the bottom of a buttered baking-dish with crackei-crombs, 
wet them with the butter and milk, then add a layer of oyBtera, 
salt and pepper ; then crumbH again and ojatera, having a, thick 
layer of crumbs on the top. Beat one egg, atii it into the milk that 
is left, and pour it over. Bake about haif an hoar. 

Baked Oysters. — Put a roimd of toasted bi<ead into a small 
baking cup or disli. Spread with butter and fill the cup with 
oysters. Season with salt, pepper, and butter. Fill as many cups 
tm are required, place tbem. in a baking-pan in the oven, cover with 
a pan, and bake about ten minutes, or tilt the oysters are pltmap. 
Oyster Pie. 
p flour, heapii^. 1 1 tablespoon butter, melted. 

laltspoon salt. i cup milk. 

1 teaspoon baking-powder. | 

Hlx salt and baking-powder with the four. Fat tbe melted 
butter with the milk, and stir tbem into the Sour, TniTing as soft as 
can be handled. Roil out to fit the top of the dish. 

Fill a deep padding-dish with oysters, dredge each layer with 
flour, salt, pepper, and butter. Cover with the crust, leave an air- 
hole in the centre, and bake quickij. 

Ofster Pie. 



2ereB. i •< mace. 

2 tablespoons hotter. 1 quart oystere. 

2 " chopped moshrooms. 

Soak the bread in the milk, add the beaten eggs and other in- 
gredients, and mix all thoroughly with the oysters. Turn into 
a deep dish lined with thin paste, and cover with pufl-paste. Orna- 
ment the top with fancy shapes of paste ; leave an opening in the 
centre. Bake slowly until the crust Is browned. 



lonpfli 



THE FfiEKLESS COOK-BOOK. 49 

Oyatera an Ut. — Dip soda-crackera in wine, lay them in a 
dish. Chop one quart ol oysters, and mix with them one teaspoon 
salt, half saltapoou pepper, and two tablespoons lemon-juice and 
melted bntl«r. Pat a layer of oysters on the crackers, then another 
layer ot crackers and oysters, and over the top layer of orackera 
spread softened batter. Bake about twenty minutes. 

Oyaters In Crackers.— Open and spread some crackers with 
bntl^r. Put aeveral oyatera on half the crackers, sprinkle with aalt 
and pepper, cover with the remaining crackers, and bake about ten 
minntes, or till the crackers are browned and the oyslera pliuap. 

Scalloped Oyster* 4 la Burnette. — Parboil one quart of 
oyetere until the liquor flows freely. Drain, and put the liquor on 
to boil again. There should be about one cup of liquor. Melt two 
tablespoons of butler in a sauce-pan, add one even tablespoon of 
floor, and when well mixed add the liquor gradually. Add a little 
cayenne, one tablespoon of lemon-juice, and half a teaspoon of salt. 
Put ail ot eight oysters in some scallopflhells or small fancy dishes, 
cover with some of the sauce, add a sprinklii^ of cracker-crumbs 
moistened in melted batter, and bake until the crumbs are brown. 
Bet the dishes in a pan of hot water, to prevent cracking, while in 
the oven. 

Meat and Fish Sauces.— Drawn butter, or water and melted 
butter thickened with flour and seasoned, is ttie simpleat form of a 
sauce. When milk or cream or white stock is uaed in place of 
water, less butter is required, and the sauce is called white or 
cream or Bechamel sauce. By browning the butter, naing brown 
Block, and adding different soaaoning materials, we have all the 
varietiea of brown sauces. Many people fail in making sauces by 
not cooking the flour sufficiently, and also bj serving them with a 
mass of oily butter on the surface. Usually the flour is wet to a 
amoolh paste and stirred into the boiling liquid. When made In 
this maimer, the sauce should boil at least ten minutes to have the 
flour thoroughly cooked. But by cooking the dry flour in the hot 
butter the starch in the flour is more quickly cooked, and the butler 
is all absorbed and converted into an emulsion. Sauces made in 
this manner are perfectly smooth, free from grease, and have a fine 

flavor. Fnm Mrt. JAmcoln'M " Boitoa Oook-Book." 



50, THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOE. 

Dr&wn-Batter Bauc«. 

1 pint hot water or white stock. I ) teaspoon salt. 

i cup butter, acanU j BiUtspoon pepper. 

2 tableBpooDB Qour. | 

Put half the butter in a saucepan ; be careful not to let it become 
brown ; when melted, add the dry flour, and mix well. Add the 
' hot water, a little at a time, and Btlr rapidly aa it thickens. When 
perfectly Bmooth, add the remainder of the butter, one small piece 
at a time, and stir till it is absorbed. Add the salt and pepper. 
When carefully made, this sauce should be free from lumps ; but U 
not smooth, strain it before serving. 

JVnni Mn. Uiuoln'i " Botbm Cooh-Bae/t" 

Brown Sauce. 

1 pint hot stock. | i teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons minced onion. | saltapoon pepper. 

2 " butter. 1 tablespoon lemon-juice. 

2 heaping tablespoons floor. | Caramel enough to color. 

Mince the onion and fry it in the butter five minutes. Be caretnl 
not to bum It. When the butter is brown, add the dry flour and 
stir well. Add the hot stock a little at a time, and stir rapidly aa 
it thickens, until perfectly emooth. Add the salt and pepper, using 
more if high seasoning be desired. Simmer five minutes, and strain 
ta remove the onion. The stock for brown sauces may be made 
from bones and remnants of any kind of meat by soaking them 
in cold water, and boiling until the nutriment is extracted. The 
onion may be omitted if the flavor be not desired ; but the sauce is 
better with it if it be not burned. By the addition of diSerent 
seasoning materials to this brown sauce, a great variety of sauces 
may be made. Half the quantity given is suEBcient for most 
entx^es, or to use for any purpose in a small family. Be very 
careful not to Imxa the butter, aa the desired color can better be 
obtained by adding caramel. 

Sauce Robert. — To one cup of brown sauce add one teaepoon 
of sugar, one t«aspoon of made mustard, and one tablespoon of 
vinegar. 

BrOTCD Bfaehroom Sauce (for Beef). — To one cup of brown 
sauce add half a can of mushrooms, whole or quartered, and simmer 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK, 51 

Brown Sauce Piquant* (for Beef). — To ono cup of brown 

sauce add one tablespoon eocb of chopped pickles and capers. 

White Sauce. 

1 cup hot milk, cream, or white 1 1 tablespoon flour or com-etarch. 

stock. i teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon butter. | j saltfipoon pepper. 

Melt the butter in a granite sauce-pan. When it bubbles stir in 
the dry flour. Add one-third of the milk. Stir as it thickens, and 
when well raized add another third. Let it boil, and stii till 
smooth. Be sure the lumps are all out, then add the remainder 
of the Tiiilli and the seaaoning. This ma; be made thicker for cro- 
quettes and patties, or thinner, when desired, by varying the flour 
or milk ; but Uie above is the average proportion. Celery, salt, 
capers, lemon-juice, parsley, cayenne, onion, mustiroomB, curry- 
powder, or mustard may be used for flavoring. Chopped cooked 
celery, hard-boiled eggs or lobster, oysters or shrimps, give other 
varieties, and a well-beaten yolk of egg stirred In as it is taken 
from the fire makes it richer. 

Tartare Sauce (Hot, for Broiled Fish). 

1 tablespoon vinegar. 1 1 tablespoon WorcestetBhlre 

1 teaspoon lemon-juice. sauce. 

1 saltspoou salt. | i cup butter. 

Mix the vin^ar, lemon-juice, salt, and Worcestershire sauce in 
a small bowl, and beat over hot water. Brown the butter in an 
omelet-pan, and strain into the other mixture. 

Fish Sauce. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. 

1 " Bugar. 1 cup vinegar. 

1 " salt, 1 large tablespoon butter. 

1 saltapoon pepper. 
liOx the first five articles, add the whole yolks tuid beat well- 
Heat the vinegar and water, add a little of it to the e^a, then put 
all together and cook over hot water until it thickens ; add Uie 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 



Sance for Venison. 

1 1 teaspoon lemon-juice. 
i cup thick brown stock, or the 
dnppiiigB from the meat. 
i ** , cayenne. | 

Heat a]l togetiier tjll very hot 

Roast Slrlotn of Beef, — Six or eight ponnds from the tjp or 
second cut of the Bixloin. Wipe, trim, and tie or skewer into shape. 
If there be a large piece of the f ajik, cut it off. and use it for soups 
or slews. If you prefer to use it for thia purpose after Toasting, 
draw it round underneath and fasten it with a skewer. Lay the 
meat on a rack in a pan, and dredge all over with salt, pepper, 
and flour. Put it in a very hot oven with two or three tablespoons 
of drippings or pieces of tbe beef fat placed in the pan. Place a 
rack under the pan, or turn the heat ofl from the bottom of the 
oven. Put tbe skin side down at first, that the heat may harden 
the juices in the lean part When tbe flour is brown on the pan 
and ihe meat is seared, baal« with the fat and reduce tiie heat 
Bast* often, and dredge twice with salt and flonr. When seared 
all over, tiun and bring the skin side up for the final basting and 
browning. Bake fift; or sixty minutes, if liked very rare ; an hour 
and a quarter t» an hour and a half, if liked well done. If there 
be any danger of burning the fat in the pan, add a little hot water 
after the flour ia browned. Meat ma; be roasted and carved better 
U placed in the pan and on the platter with the skin up Instead of 
the flesh side. Carve a sirloin roast b; cutting several thin slices 
parallel with the ribs. Then cut down near the backbone and sepa- 
rate the slices. Cut out the tenderloin from under the bone, and 
slice it in the same manner. Many turn the sirloin over and 
remove the tenderloin first Serve a little of the crisp fat on the 
flank to those who wish it. 

Oravy for Roast Beef. — To make it in Ihe pan, pour off 
nearly all the fat Put tbe pan on the stove and add dry flour 
until the fat is all absorb^. Then add hot water or hot stock, 
and stir as it thickens. Cook five to eight minut«s, season, and 
strain. Prom Mr: lAnixln't •• Botlon Cooh-Book." 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 53 

Torkablre Pndding, — Beftt three eggs vet? light Add one 
scant teaspoon of salt and one pint of milk. Poor h&lf a, cup of 
this miztuie on a scant cup of flour, and stir to a. Bmooth paste. 
Add the remainder of the mixture and beat well. Bake In hot 
gem-pans forty-five miuuMe. Baste with the drippings from the 
beel This is a more convenient way than to bake in tbe pan 
under the beef, and gives more crust Serve as a garnish for 
roast-beef. 

Pot Boast. — Four to six pounds from the middle or face of 
(he rump, the vein, or the round. Wipe with a clean wet cloth. 
Sear all over bj placing in a, hot frying-pan and turning till all the 
surface is browned. Put in a kettle with one cup of water, and 
place it where it will keep jnst below the boiling-point Do Qot let 
the water boil entirely away, but add only enough to keep the meat 
from burning. Have tbe cover fitting closely to keep in the steam. 
Cook until very tender, but do not let it break. Serve hot or cold. 
The meat when cold is delicious, cut in quarter-inch slices, and 
saut^ In hot butter. 

Rolled Flank of Beef. — Four or five pounds of ti>e flank. 
Wipe, and remove the skin, membrane, and extra fat Pound and 
trim until of uniform thickness. Make a stuffing with one cup of 
0^acke^^;^umba, two tablespoons ot fine chopped salt pork, half a 
teaspoon of sidt, one ealtepoon each of thyme, marjoram, and sage, 
half a saltspoon of pepper, a few drops of onion-juice, or one tea- 
spoon ot chopped onion, and one egg. MoiEten with hot water 
nntJl soft enongh to spread over the meat. Roll over, and tie or 
sew securely. Wrap a cloth around it. Put it into tioiUng water, 
and simmer six hours, or until tender. Remove the cloth, press it, 
and when cold remove the stnngs. Serve cold, cut in thin slices. 
Coined flank may be prepared in the same way. The stufBng may 
be omitted, and the meat covered with vinegar spiced and flavored 
vrit}) onion, and, after remaining in the pickle several hours, rolled, 
and bQiled as above. 

Stuflbd Beef. — Take a slice of steak from the top of tbe round i 
season it witb salt and pepper. Make a cup of bread stufBng, highly 
seasoned ; spread this over the middle, add a layer of oysters and 
another of stufBng. Fold the edges of the meat toward the middle 



54 THE PEBRLESa COOK-BOOK. 

and sew them together. Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour. Fat 
it In a pan with pieces of beef fat or salt pork on Vbe tap, and bake 
it halt an hour. 

Smotbered Bee*.— Take three or four pounds of beef from 
the shoulder-of-mutton piece, or from the under part of tite rovtnd. 
Cut it into uniform pieces of a conveiiient size to put into an earthen 
bean-pot, or, if preferred, use a stone jar and put the meat in whole- 
Use no water. Cover closely and cook in a very moderate oven 
two hours, then increase the heat and cook untU a fork will go 
through easily. Pour ofE the gravy, add as much water; season 
with salt, pepper, and a tablespoon of vinegar, and thicken with 
flour wet in cold water. Serve in thin slices. 

Corned Bee*. — Select a piece of lean beef well streaked with 
fat that has been corned only three days. When it is possible, 
choose the meat before coming, and request the marketman to 
send it in three days. Wash it carefully and put it into boiling 
water. Simmer (not boil) imtil very tender. Then press between 
two plates and serve in thin slices. 

Broiled Bteak. — Wipe, trim ofl the superfluous fat, and re- 
move the bone. Save the flank end for broiled meat-cakes. Grease 
the gridiron with some of the fat. Broil over a clear fire, turning 
every ten seconds. Cook three or four minutes, if liked rare; 
longer, if well done. Serve on a hot platter. Season with butter, 
salt, and pepper, or serve with maitre dTiotel butter. Steaks 
should be cut at least an inch thick. Many prefer them much 
thicker. Sirloin, cross cut of the rump, and top of the round are 
ail good steaks. The round is juicy, but has a network of tough 
white fibre which makes it difficult to masticate- If the steak be 
very tough, ponnd it with a meat-hammer (a hammer vrith sharp 
teeth for cutting), or cut across it several times with a sharp knife 
on each side. The intense heat wfll sejc the surface quickly, and 
prevent the escape of the juices. Many prefer not to remove the 
bone in a eirloin steak ; but it bums quickly, and Is better for the 
soup-ketUe if not cooked, and the steak is more easily carved when 
the hone is removed. Carve in narrow slices, giving each person a 
bit of tenderloin, fat, and upper part. 

From Mri. lAncoln't '• Boston Cook-Book." 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 55 

Beefsteak with Onion. — Cook six onions in boiling Baited 
'water until they are tender. Drain, chop, and mash them. Put 
a pound of best round steak in a, hot spider with a little butter, 
season with salt and pepper, and, when nearly done, add tbe onions 
and keep closely covered until the steak is cooked. 

BnisselB Steak. — Cut four onions in thin rings. Soak half an 
hour in cold sailed water. Drain between towels, and fry quickly 
in deep hot fat. Four them over hot, broiled beefsteak. 

What to do witb Cold Beefsteak. — Chop the beat and 
most tender portions, add hot water enough to moisten slightly, 
heat quickly, and serve at onee as soon as hot. Add butter, salt, 
and pepper. The tough parts of staak or of roast-beef are much 
more palatable if boiled first in water to cover until tender. Then 
use them in any of the ways given for cold meat, as croquettes, 
bash, mince on toast, stew, ra^oQt, meat and potato pie, hraised 

Beet Stew with Peas. 

3 pounds sonp meat. 1 slice carrot. 

8 quarts cold water. i " turnip. 

1 large onion. 2 potatoes. 

1 tablespoon salt. 1 pint split peas. 

1 saltepoon pepper. 
Choose the meat from the under part of the round, face of die 
romp, aiteh-bone, or the remiunder of roast-beef. Remove all the 
slivers of bone. Cook it four hours. When it begins to boil, re- 
move the scum and fat. Cook the peas in another kettie In water 
to cover, and as the water boils away replenish with water from 
the meat. Keep the meat covered with water, and when half done 
add the vegetables, all cut One, and the seasoning. When ready, 
serve the meat by itself. Kub the peas through a pur^e-strainer, 
and, after removing the fat, add the peas to the meat-liquor. Season 
to taale and serve very hot. Cut the meat in small pieces and serve 
it in the slew. 

Granada Stew. 

1 pint potatoes. 



4 pounds beef aitch-bone. 
4 quarts cold water. 
1 tablespoon salt. 

1 saltspoon cayenne. 

2 tablespoons minced parsley. 



t potatoes. 
. cup celery. 
1 pint chestnuts. 



56 THE PEBELE88 COOK-BOOK. 

Cat the meat in small pieces and remove all the fine bones. Put 
the meat on in cold water, add the salt, remove the scum and the 
fat. Cook slowly four hours, remove the bones, then add the vege- 
tables. Cut the potatoes and celery in cubes about the size of the 
cheatnuta. Remove the chestnut shells, parboil and remove the 
brown akin. Cook until the chestnuts and vegetables are tender. 

SplcMt B««(. — Four to six poanda from tiie middle cut of the 

shin. Wash the meat on the outside, and cut oft any part of the 
skin which is not sweet and clean. Pick ofi all Uie fine fragments 
of bone. Cut the meat into several pieces; cover with boiling 
water. Skim carefully as it bolla, and then simmer nntil tbe meat 
falls to pieces, and the liquor is reduced to half a pint. Remove 
the meat; season the liquor highly with salt, pepper, sage, and 
thyme. Add It to the meat, and mix with a fork till the meat la 
all broken. Pack in a brickloaf pan. Wlien cold, cut in thla 
aUces. 

Potato Tumovers. — Mix about a pint of hot mashed potato 

with one egg, season to taste, and roll it in flour. Make it into 
balls and press or roll them out thin ; put a tablespoon of meat, 
minced and seasoned, on one half; fold over and press the edges 
together, and brown on each side in butter or sausage fat. 

Polatlna. — Take one cup of stewed tomato and the gravy left 
from roast beef. Let tUem boil and Beason with cayenne and salt- 
Slice two onions, soak them in cold salted water, drain dry and fry 
in deep fat. Cut about a pint of cold roast beef into the thinnest 
possible shavings. Have the platter as hot as possible, lay the 
shaved beef on it, pour on the boiling sance, and garnish with the 

EVagmentA. — Prepare some cold potatoes A la Lyonm^e, and 
warm any other cold vegetable you may have, chopped beets, cab- 
bage, and turnip. Brown some small thin slices of cold toast beef 
in butter. When the breakfast is ready, put the wanned vegetables 
on a platter, then the meat, the Lyoniutise potatoes on the lop, 
Berve very hot. 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 



1 cup corned beef, 

2 cups cold polatoee 
1 cold boiled onion. j 

Chop the meat, potatoes, and onion quite flne. Add the season- 
ing. Melt one tablespoon butter in a sjader. Turn In tlie hash 
and cook slowly till brown. Do not stir it. 

Beefsteak P&t^. — CIiop one pound of beet round steak till it 
is tt soft pnlp. Season biglily with salt and pepper. Add a little 
of the tender fat also chopped fine. Mix two beaten egg» with one 
pint of milh. Pour this slowly into one cup of flour mixed with 
one teaspoon of bakii^-powder. When well mixed, stir it thor- 
oughly into the meat. Bake in a moderate OTen about an hour. 

Collops. — Have a slice of uncooked meat from the under part 
of the round, chopped very fine. Put it into a hot spider, stJr 
quickly with a loik, season with salt and pepper. When done, 
remoTe from the fire, add one tablespoon of butter, and serve at 
once. A convenient way of using beef which ia too tough for 
broiling. 

Timpano. — Cut cold roaet beef or mutton in thin, small slices ; 
sprinkle with flour, salt, and pepper. Put them in a deep pudding- 
dish in l&yers alternating with sliced or canned tomatoes and bits 
of butter. Cover closely, and bake slowly two hours. 

Heat and Potato Pie. — Chop any kind of cold meat very 
fine ; seaeon it highly, and moisten with gravy, stock, or butter and 
hot water. Put it in a dish, cover with mashed and seasoned 
potato. Brush over with cream or beaten egg, and bake about 
half an hour. Unless the meat be very tender, it is better to cook 
it again in water to cover until tender ; then cut (not chop) into 
small pieces, and use the liquor in wliicb it waa boiled for the 
gravy. 

Qeef Smothered In Tomato. — Cut as onion fine, and fry it 
slowly in one tablespoon of butter in a stew-pan. Add one pint of 
strained tomatoes, one teaspoon salt, one saltapoon pepper, and one 
pound of beef, cooked or uncooked, cut in small pieces. Simmer 
very slowly until the meat is tender. 



THE PEEBLES8 COOK-BOOK. 



lUcbftaflH. — Put a pint each of milk and water into a epidei 
Mid put on to boiL When hot, add half a pint or more of any kind 
of cold meat, roaat beet or lamb or chicken, using the trimmings 
and any of the poorer pieces that would not be appetizing if served 
cold. Add salt and pepper to taste, and any gravy that has been 
left over, or half a cup of stewed tomato. Let it simmer fifteen 
minutes i then add two or three cold potatoes sliced. Toa«t four 
slices of stale bread, dip them quickly in hot ealtcd water and pnt 
them in a deep dish. When tbe potatoes are warmed through, 
pour it over the toast. It should be quite moist 

R&gofit of Mntton. — Cut into dice one pint of cold roasted or 
boiled mutton. Add one small onion cut fine, half a cup of diced 
turnip, and one-fourth cup of grated carrot. Salt and pepper to 
taste. Cover with boiling water and simmer till tender. Put the 
bones and trimming into another stew-pan, cover with cold water, 
and let them simmer until the liquor is reduced one half. Then 
strain it, remove tbe fat, and add Uie liquor to the ragoQt When 
the meat is tender, remove the fat, add a little flour thickening, and 
a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce or two tablespoons of wine, or 
half a cup of currant-Jelly. 

Broiled Mutton. — Select lean mutton from the leg or any 
other lean part Remove the fat and membranes. Put it on a 
boaid, and chop or pound with an Iron meat-hammer until broken 
to a pulp. Fold over and press Into a mass half an inch thick; 
take it up carefully, and broil in a fine wire gridiron well greased. 
Turn it often and cook it quite rare. Serve vet? hot with butter 
and Bali 

Leg of Mutton or Lamb lUchanflK, — Slice the tender pait 
into nice pieces for serving. Cut up the trimmii^B and bones, and 
stew with an onion in water to cover until tender. Str^n, remove 
the fat, heat again, and thicken the liquor with flour cooked iu hot 
butter. Add half a cup of currant-jelly, one teaspoon of mixed 
mustard, and salt and pepper to taste. Simmer ten minutes; Uien 
add the sliced meat and two tablespoons of capers, and serve as 
soon as the meat Is hot There should be about one cup of sauce 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 59 

Matton Stew (or Two. — Two mutton-chops, cnt from near the 
shoulder. Put tbem in a, shallow pan haying a, tight cover. Pour 
on boiling water to the depth of one inch ; cover and Bimmer one 
hour; add more water as it boils away, using only enough to keep 
the meat from burning. Add two slices of French turnip, two 
small onions whole ; and, when the meat and turnip are nearly 
tender, add two common-eized potatoes, haying first eoalced and 
scalded them. Add one teaspoonful of salt and a tittle pepper. ' 
Remove the yegetables without brea^ng ; let the water boil nearly 
away, leaving enough for a gravy. Remove tlie fat, thicken the 
gravy with flour, and, if needed, add salt and tomato catchup. 
Pour it over the meat From Mn. lAneoMt " Botton Coob-Book." 



German Rabbit. 



itmeg, grated, 
tablespoon of chopped parsley, 
saltspoon of thyme, 
teaspoons of s^t. 
small onion parboiled and 
chopped fine. 



Ipoundof raw lean beef chopped j 

flue. I 

I pound of lean veal choi^ted 1 

fine. 
4^gs. 

1 cup of fine bread^nmibs. 
1 teaspoon pepper. 

Mix well and shape into a long oval loaf. Cover it with beaten 
e^ and breadcrumbs. Place it in a dripphig-pan with thin slices 
of fat salt pork pinned over the top. Bust* with flie fat and bake 
half an hour. Serve cold as a relish for limcbeon or tea. 

Veal Btew, or Fricassee, or Pot Pie. — The ends of the ribs, 
the neck, and the knuckle may be utilized in a stew. Cut the meat 
— two pounds — in small pieces, find remove all the flne bones. 
Cover the meat with boiling water ; skim as it begins to boil ; add 
two small onions, two teaspoons of salt, and one saltspoon of 
pepper. Simmer nnijl thoroughly tender. Cut four potatoes in 
halves ; soak in cold water, and parboil them five minutes ; add 
them to the stew. Add one tablespoon of flour wet in cold water, 
and more seasoning ff desired; and, just before serving, add one 
cup of cream, or, if mUk be used, add one tablespoon of butter. 
Remove Uie houes before serving. To make veal pot-pie, add 
dumplings, as in beef-stew. If intended for a fricassee, fry the 
veal in salt-pork fat before stewing, and omit the potatoes. Add 
one egg to the liquor just before serving, if you wish it richer. 



60 TBE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 

Helton Veal. — Take any cold veal, either roasted or bo&ed; 
chop it fine, and season wiUi salt, pepper, and lemon-juice ; add two 
or three tablespoons of crockei-crumbs, and moisten with soup- 
stock or hot water. Take one Uiird as much finely chopped ham 
as of veal ; season with mnstard and cayenne'; add one tablespoon 
of cracker-crmnbs, and moisten with hot stock or water. Butter 
a mould, and line it with slices of hard-boiled e^. Put in the 
two miitures irregularly, ho that when cut it will have a mottled 
appearance ; press in closely, and steam three-quarters of an hour. 
Set away to cool ; remove from the mould, and slice before serving. 
, This is an excellent dish for lunch or tea. 

Frrm ifrt. Zincoln'i "Bintoa Cook-Soot." 

Sweetbreads & la Messina. — Cook in lulling salt«d water, 
with a tablespoon of vinegar, for twenty minutes. Plunge into cold 
water, remove the membranes. Season with salt and pepper, and 
squeeze a little orange-juice over them. Bub over with soft butter. 
Dredge with flour, and bake Italf an hour. Baste with hot water 
and butter. Serve with Messina sauce, and garnish with oranges, 
cut in quarters- 
Messina Sauce. 
i cup butter. 1 1 saltapoon salt. 

Yolks 2 eggs. i " pepper. 

2 tablespoons onu^e-julce. j i cup botlii^ water. 

Cream the butter, add the whole yolks, salt, pepper, orange-jidce, 
and hot water. Set the saucepan in boiling water, and stir till it 
tidckens. 

Sweetbreads FrlcASsee. — Parboil them twenty minutes in 
salted water with iemon-juice. Remove the veins and membranes, 
and cut carefully in halves lengthwise. Dredge with salt and flour, 
and brown them delicately in hot butter. Arrai^ on a, platterand 
pour a cream-sauce over them. 

Cream Sauce, — Beat the jolka of two e^8, add a saltspoon of 
salt and half as much white pepper, and one cup of hot cream. 
Cook, in a double boiler, until thick and smooth. Add a tablespoon 
of lemon-juice. 

Brown Fricassee of Sweetbreads. — Parboil ten minutes. 
Remove fat and membranes, dredge with flour, and fry, till quite 



THE PEEKLEaS COOK-BOOE. 61 

brown, in butter, with a minced onion. Add to the butter, one cup 
of veal^stock Etnd two tablespoons of miuhroom Itetchup, or ball 
a cup of tomatoes and one tablespoon of chopped paisley. Season 
to taste wltJi salt and pepper, cover, and 8t«w slowly for hail an 
hour. Strain the gravy, and pour it over the Bweetbreadg. 

Spiced Tongne or Calf 'a Heart. — Boil a freab tougne nntQ 
the skin will peel. Trim oB the roota, and mb the tongue all over 
with a mixture of one teaapoon of allspice, half a teaspoon each of 
pepper and ginger, then dredge with flour. Fry one minced onion 
in two tablespoons butter, then brown the tongne all orer. Put it 
in a stew-pan, add flour to the butter left in the pan, and about 
a pint of water, or enough to make a thin gravy. Pour it over the 
tongne, add half a cup of raisins and half a cup of Maderia wine 
or vinegar. Stew tJU very tender. Pour the gravy, without strain- 
ing, over the tongue. Prepare a caU's heart in a similar way, with- 
out parboiling, and stuff the cavity with nusins, rolled in the spice. 

Stewed Kidneys. — Soak in cold water, scald, and remove the 
outside membrane. Cut them through the edge to the centre, and 
remove the hard part. Put them in a stew-pan with two bay-leaves, 
four cloves, four peppercorns, teaspoon of salt, one onion, two 
tablespoons of vinegar, and water to cover. Simmer nntil tender. 
Brown one tablespoon of butter, add one tablespoon of flonr, and 
when mixed add one cup of the liquor ; season with salt, pepper, and 
lemon-juice. Pour this over the kidneys, and serve very hot 

Tripe. — Unless the tripe he very tender, it is better to boil It 
twenty minutes before frying. Drain on a towel, and fry in hot 
butter in a frying-pan. Use plenty of batter, and be careful not to 
bum it. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, vinegar, and slightly with 
powdered sugar. 

Broiled Tripe.— Select the honey-comb tripe, and cook it In 
boiling salted wat£r half an hour. Drain quite dry. Spread the 
honey-comb side wiUi soft butter, and cover with a thin coating of 
cracker-dusL Brod over a moderate fire until of a delicate brown 
color. Spread with butter, salt, lemon-julce, and pepper. 

Savory Venison Cakes. — Take lean meat from the foreqnarter 
of venison, remove all the fat and sinew, chop It fine aa for saosaga 



62 THE FEERLEaS COOK-BOOK. 

meat. Add half aa much fat salt pork, and eeason highly with 
berba and pepper. Make it into email flat cakes or rolls, tutd fry 
slowly ontil brown and well cooked. 

Liver an Ut. — Clean the UverB from two or three fo^a and 
cut into several pieces ; or you may use calfs liver cut into small 
slices. Put a layer of tomatoes in a dlah, then the liver, then sliced 
onion and tomatoes on the top. Season each layer with salt and 
pepper. Cover and bake slowly about an hour. 

Liver Trith CheBtnnts. — Boil the livers from two fowls or a 
turkey. When tender, mash them fine. Boil one pint of shelled 
chestnuts until soft. Blanch and mash them to a smooth paste. 
Rub the chestnuts and liver through a puree-strainer. Season to 
taste with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice, and moisten with melted 
butter. Spread the paste on bread like sandwiches, or add enough 
hot chicken-Btock to make a pur^e. Heat again and season with 
salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. 

Roast Popk.— The chine, or loin, and flie spare-ribs, are the 
best pieces for roasting. Rub well with pepper, or sage, salt, and 
flour, and bake twenty minutes for each pound. Baste often, and 
do not have the oven as hot as for otiier meat. Roast pork is more 
wholesome when eaten cold. 

Pomona BJee. — Core, pare, and bake six tart apples. Steam 
one cup of rice in two cnps of aalted water halt an hour. Stir in 
one large tablespoon of butter, a little cayenne, and more salt If 
needed. Hake a molasses sauce with one cup of molasses, one 
tablespoon each of vinegar and butter, and a pinch of salt. Simmer 
ten minutes. Put the rice in a dish, lay the apples on it, and pour 
the sauce over them. Serve as an entr^ with roast-pork. 

Apple-Saace for Roast Qoose and Pork. — Pare, core, and 
quarter six tart apples, and stew them in one cup of brown stock 
till tender. Beat them to a pulp, and season with a few grains of 



Souse. — Take the gristly part of the pig's head, but not Ibe fat; 
also the ears and feet. Remove the hard part from the feet. Scald 
01 sii^ the hiUrs, soak in warm water, and scrape thoroughly. 



THE FEEELESS COOK-BOOK. 63 

Let them remain m salt and water for ten hours. Scrape and 
clean again, and put them in a, second time in freebly salted water. . 
With proper care, they will be perfectly clean. Put them in a 
kettle and cover with cold water ; skim when it begins to boil ; set 
back and let it simmer till the bones slip out easily. Skim out the 
meat, and remove the hard gristle, bones, and any superfluous fat 
Season with salt, pepper, sjid vinegar, and pack in stone jai^. 
When hard, cut in slices, and broven in the oven. 

From Mti. LmcoWs " BoiIoh Cooh-Book." 

Baked Ham. — Soak a ham in cold water overnight. Trim it 
neatly, and cover it all over with a thick crust of flour and water. 
Bake slowly eight hours. Remove the crust and ekhi; cover the 
top with fine craoker-crumbs slightly sweetened. Place in the qren 
till the orombs are brown. When cold, cut in very thin slices. 

Breakfast Bacon. — Slice the bacon very thin, cut off the rind 
and hard part before slicing. Fill a shallow pan with cold sweet 
potatoes sliced. Cover the potatoes with the bacon, and bake until 
the pork is crisp. ' 

Roast Turkey. — Clean carefully, and wipe dry. 8tu9 with 
soft bread or cracker crumbs highly seasoned vdth sage, thyme, 
salt, and pepper; moisten the stu^ig with lia-lf a cup of melted 
butter, and hot water enough to make it quite moist. Add one 
beaten egg. Some use salt pork chopped fine, but stufBng is more 
wholesome without it. Oysters, cbestnuts, chopped celery, stoned 
raisins, or dates make a pleasing variety. Truss the turkey and 
put it on a, rack in a pan, rub well wiUi butter, and dredge with 
salt, pepper, and Sour. Put in a hot oven, and when the fiour is 
browned reduce the heat, and add a pint of water. Baste with 
butler until nicely browned, then vrith the fat in the pan. Baste 
often, and dredge with salt, and Bour after every basting. Allow 
three hours for an eight-pound turkey. Cook till the legs will sepa- 
rate from the body. Garnish the turkey with parsley or celery 
leaves and sausages or force-meat balls. Serve cranberry sauce or 
currant jelly with roast turkey. 

From Mn. Lincoln'i "Botlm Cooh-Book." 



64 THE FSEBLEB3 COOK-BOOK. 

through the skin round the leg joint Bend Uie I(« over and cut ofi 
at tlie joint Then cut oD the wings, and divide wings and legs at 
the joints. Carve the breast in thin slices parallel with the breast- 
bone. Some prefer to cut it at right angles with the bone. Take 
off the wish-bone; eeparale the collar-bone from llie breast; alip 
the knife under the shoulder blade, and turn it over. Cut through 
the cartilage wliich divides the ribs, separating the bi^ast from the 
back. Then torn the back bver, place the knife midway, and with 
the fork lift up the tail end, sepatating the back from the body. 
Place the fork in the middle of the backbone, and cut close to the 
backbone, from one end to the other, freeing tiie side bone. As 
soon as the legs and wings are disjointed, begin to serve, offering ' 
white or dark meat and stnfSng as each prefers. Do not remove 
the fork from the breastbone till tlie breast is separated from the 
back. Use aa extra fork in serving. If all the fowl be not re- 
quired, carve only from one side, leaving the opposite side whole 
for another meal. JlYom Un. LUtcoln't " Botton Coot-Soot." 

Fried Chicken with Oysters, — Clean and cut a young 
chicken, at the jointe, into pieces for serving. Dredge with salt, 
pepper, and flour, and fry them brown in- butter or ehieken fat 
Hake a cream sauce, with one heaping tablespoon of flour mixed 
with one tablespoon of hot butter, add gradually one cup of hot 
cream or "lillr ; season with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. Cook 
one pint of oysters in one tablespoon of butter till plump. Four 
them over the chicken, and pour the sauce over the whole. 

Pried Chlefcen. — 8inge ; cut at the joints ; remove the breast- 
bones. Wipe each piece with a clean wet cloth ; dredge with salt, 
pepper, and flour, and saut^ them in hot salt-pork fat till brown and 
tender, but not burned. Arrange on a dish with boiied cauliflower 
or pota.to-balls, and pour a white sauce over them. Or dip in egg 
and crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat, and serve with tomato sauce. 

Broiled Fillets of Cblckeu. — Itemove the bone from the 
breast and thighs. Bub the meat with bntter or olive-oil ; season, 
and cover with fine cracker-dust Broil about ten minutes. 

Chicken Broth. — Clean the chicken, and separate It at the 
jointB. Bemore all Hie skin juid fat Cover the ohloken with col4 



THE PEEfiLESS COOE-BOOE. 65 

water. Add one tB^lespoon of salt, one saltspoon of pepper, one 
small onion ellced. Simmer until Uie chicken is tender. Remove 
the beat part of the meat, and put tlie bones and gristle back, and 
simmer until the bones are clean. Waeh, and soak two tablespoons 
of rice half an hour. Sirain the broth. Remove the fat. Put the 
broth on to boil again, and add to it the rice, and the nicest portions 
of meat, cut into small pieces. Simmer until the rice is tender. 
Add seasoning to taste, and serve at once. A few spoonfuls of 
cream may be added if desired. 

8t«Bined Fowl. — Put the fowl on a plate in a close steamer and 
cook it one hour over boiling water. Then rub well with salt, and 
stufi as for baking. Steam again until perfectly tender. Bemove 
from the steamer, mb all over with batter, dredge with flour, and 
bake until brown, basting often with melled liutter and water. 
Use the liquor in the steamer for the gravy. Thicken the butter in 
the baking-pan with flour, add the liquor and the chopped giblets. 

Smotbered Foivl. — Clean a fowl suitable only for boiling; 
stuff and truss as for roasting. Put it in a large, deep kettle or jar. 
Parboil some white beans, season the same as for baking, and put 
them in the kettle with the fowl, — under, around, and over the fowl. 
Add water and a small piece of pork. Cover, and bake slowly 
about eight hours. Add water as it boils away and treat the same 
as for beans alone. Pour the beans out, remove the fowl care- 
fully, pnt it on a hirge platter and garnish with Qie beans. If more 
convenient, the fowl may Ix cut as for a fricassee. 

Italian Otalchen and Macaroni. — Cut up a chicken, and 
boo it tCl lender. While the chicken is cooking, dip out a pint of 
the chicken broth into another stew-pan, and put with it one small 
onion sliced, one tablespoon butter, and quarter of a pound of 
macaroni broken into inch pieces. Cook until the water has nearly 
boiled away, then add one cup of milk or cream, and cook slowly 
till the macaroni has absorbed the milk. Sprinkle grated cheese 
over it. Boil the chicken liqnor till reduced to one pint, remove 
the fat, thicken it slightly with flour, wet in cold water. Cook ten 
minutes. Add salt, and pepper. Pour the macaroni over the 
chicken, and the saucq over the whole. 



66 THB PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 

Vlrgliils Chicken and Tamsto«B. 

1 cbicken. 1 3 thin slices of bticon. 

3 tomatoes. i of the rind of a green pepper, 

1 onion sliced. | chopped fine. 

Cut Uie chicken ae for u fricassee. Put the hacon in a stew-pan, 
add the onion sliced, the pieces of chicken, and the tomatoes peeled 
and sliced, aiid the pepper. Add water till two inches above the 
meat Simmer slowly. When nearly lender, add rice in the pro- 
portion of half a cup to a pint of liqnor. Cook half an hour longer. 
Arrange the chicken on a deep dish, and pour rice and broth over it. 

Cbicken Pot Pie. — Singe the chicken, cut aa for a fricassee, 
remove the crop, entrails, and lai^r bones. Clean the gizzard, 
heart, and liver. Melt enough butt«? in a granite pan to cover the 
bottom. Dredge the chicken with salt, pepper, and 4out ; lay the 
pieces in the buti£r, and let them warm tbrougb. Add one minced 
onion if yon prefer. Cover with cold water, and simmer one hour, 
or until the chicken is nearly done. Make a crust with one pint 
of flour, two teaspoons baking-powder, half a teaspoon salt; wet 
with milk, just stifi enough to roll out. Lay it over the chicken. 
Butter the Inside of the cover, cover tightiy, and cook half an hour. 
Serve in the same dish, or cut the crust in sections, and serve all 
on a platter. 

Scalloped Chicken, — Cut some raw potatoes into balls, or,!f 
you have no French vegetable-knife, cut them into uniform rect- 
angular pieces. Parboil tor ten minutes in salted water. Take 
about the same quantity of cold chicken, cut in small pieces. Make 
a sauce by tWokening the chicken water (obtained by stewing the 
bones and remnants) with corn-starch miied smoothly with hot 
butter. Use milk If you have not sufBcient liquor. To one pint of 
liquor add one egg beaten, and season to taste. Put a layer of 
meat in a baking-dish, then a layer of potatoes, then sauce to cover 
them, another layer of each, and cover with cracker-crumbs moist- 
ened in melted butter. Bake half an hour. 

Minced Chicken. — Cut up the remainder of a cold roast 
chicken, lay aside any nice meat Put the bones, skin, and any 
hard, dry meat into a stew-pan with cold water to cover; add one 
email onion, a teaspoon of mixed herbs, a little salt and pepper, 



THE PBEBLB88 COOK-BOOK, 67 

and sinunBT one hour, or nntlt the bones are clean. Strain and 
remove the fat. Chop the reserved meat and mix with it four 
mushrooms, and the whites of lour hard-boiled eggs chopped flne. 
Mash the yolks of the egga, add a tablespoon of melted butter and 
mil; them gradually with the hot chlcken-etock. Add the minced 
meat, and, when hot, pour it over hot buttered toast. 

Devilled Turkey's Legs. — Take the legs of a cold turkey 
or large fowl. Cut through to the bone in Beveral places, and rub 
well with salt, pepper, and cayenue. Spread mixed mustard all 
over them, and broil quickly. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

] cup cold roa«t chicken. I WiiJte sance. 

i " stuffing. Salt and pepper. 

legg. I 

Chop the chicken very flue; mix it well with the stuffing and 
beaten egg. Cook one tablespoon of flonr in one tablespoon of hot 
butter, add hot milk gradually, using enough to make it thick. 
Moisten the chicken with the sauce, add salt and pepper to taste. 
When cold and hard, shape into rolls, cover them with flne bread- 
cnuubs, roll in ljeat£n egg and crumbs, and fry one minute in deep 
fat, hot enough to brown bread while counljng forty. 

Oibleta. — Clean the giblets of a turkey or chicken, cut the 
gizzard into quarters and separate the lobes of the liver. Stew 
them in water to cover, with an onion, salt, and pepper. When 
tender, thicken the liquor with flour and butter cooked together j 
add tomato or walnut ketchup to taste, and serve on toast. 

FUlet of Grouse. — Semove the breast and separate into four 
or six pieces. Disjoint and cook the remainder in boiling salted 
water to cover till tender. Then remove all the meat and chop it 
fine. Thicken the broth, which should be reduced to half a cup, 
season and moisten the meat. Spread the minced meat on squares 
of toast; put a layer of cuiTant-jelly on each. Bub the flllets with 
batter, and broil them carefully ; season with salt, pepper, and 
butter, and lay them on the jelly. 

CanvM-Back Ducks. — Draw carefoiiy and wipe clean, hot 
oae no water. Boast quickly before a brisk Are or in a hot oven. 



68 THK FEESLE8S COOK-BOOK. 

Slleea miuates if liked rare, from tweniy-fiTe to thirty if well don& 
Epicures prefer them ver; rate. The breast is the only part eaten 
when cooked in this manner. Serve at once on hot plates, and 
with currantrjelly. A salmi or stew may be made of the bones and 



Wild Ducks. — Draw and clean them. Pat a sliced lemon In- 
side and keep it there until ready to cook ; then remove It, sprinkle 
inside with salt and pepper, and put in two or three sntall onions. 
Dredge the ontside with salt, pepper, and flour. Boast in a qniok 
oven twenty minules, Jf liked rare; forty, if well done. Squeeze 
orange-juice over them when on the platter, and gafnish with sliced 
oranges. 

Onion Bauce for Roast Docks. — Boil six onions until very 
soft Change the water twice. l>rain aad rub the onion through 
a sieve. Add one cup of hot milk, a tablespoon of butter, and salt 
and pepper to taste. 

Broiled Squabs. — Kemove the feathers, split down tbe bock, 
remove the entrails and wipe clean. Rub all over with soft butter, 
and dredge with salt and pepper. Lay them in a piece of buttered 
letter-paper, inside down, cross the legs over the outside, and fold 
the edges under 1e shape it well. Fold the paper over and told the 
edges together. Broil over a clear fire about eight minutes. Spread 
currant-jelly on some hot buttered toast ; lay a bird on each slice, 
with a little jelly on the breaat. Pour over them the juice from the 
papers, and serve very hot. 

Sqoabs with Olives. — Clean the squabs, and dredge all over 
with salt, pepper, and flour. Color them a delicate brown In hot 
butter, turn them often to prevent burning. Put them in a stew- 
pan, add flour to the butter left jn the pan, and when the butter is 
absorbed add hot water enough to make a thin gravy. Pour it over 
the squabs, add two etonei olives for each squab, salt and pepper 
to taste, and simmer gently until the squabs are tender. 

Farcle Cake. — Moisten one cup of oracker-crumbs vritli one 
beaten egg, one tablespoon of butter, and boiling milk enough to 
swell the crackers. Season with aal^ pepper and herbs, thyme oi 



THE PEEELE8S COOK-BOOK. 69 

Bavorjr. Make tt Int« small flat cokes and brown them in butter. 
Berre them with lamtKsbops oi Teal-«utleta. 

Branswlck Stew. — Two aqniirela, well ekinned and cleaned, 
or two small chickens. Fut them into a laige kettle with two 
qnarts of cold water. Add one slice of bacon, two quarts of 
tomatoes, six large potati^es sliced thin, one quart of IJma beans, 
two large onions aliced, one tabtespoon salt, and half a teaspoon 
pepper. Let it Et«w until lender. Add more water as it boils 
away. Add six ears of com cut from the cob, cook twenty min- 
utes longer, being very careful not to let it bum. 
Babed Kgg<Plant. 
1 egg-plant. 1 2 tablespoons bread-crambs 

6 tomatoes. 2 eggs. 

4 crabs, or 2 tablespoons butter. 

1 lobster. | Salt ana pepper. 

Boil the egg-plant. Scald and peel the tomatoes, cut in halves, 
and remove tiie seeds and juice. Chop the lobster or crab meat, 
also the~e^-plant and tomato. Mix them with the bread-crumbs, 
add the beaten e^, melted butter, and seasoning. Bake in the crab 
or lobster shells, or in a shallow dish. Cover with buttered crackei^ 
crmnbs, and bake until brown. 

Cheese Fondn. 

1 cup hot milk, 
legg. 1 

Helt the cheese and batter in the hot milk, add the egg well 
beaten, the seasoning and crumbs. Bake in buttered scallop^hells 
until brown. 

Dlnga. 
} onp split peas. 1 1 cup rice. 

i pound salt pork or bacon. 1 1 saltspoon pepper. 
Put the peas and pork on to boil in cold water. Replenish with 
boiling water as it boils away. When the peaa are nearly soft, add 
the well-washed rice and pepper and more water. Cook fltteeii 
minutes, stirring often. Pour oH the water from the top, cover, 
and cook slowly till the rice is lender. Kemove the pork and serve 
in a separata dish. It should be quite hot with pepper. 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 



Tjnrol Padding. 

p 
3 tablespoons cbeese^mmbB. | ' 
Split and butter the crackers, and pat them In a small baking- 
dish. SprinMe over them the crumbled cheese, and a little salt and 
cayenns. Beat the eggs, add the milk, pour it over the oracfcera 
and bake about half an bour. 

Potatoes with Cream.— Select small potatoes; pare a strip 

round, and cook in boiling salted water till tender. Drain and peal 

them. Pat them in a dish, sprinkle yritt salt and pepper ; pnt a bit 

of butter on each, and pour over them one cup at hot oreath. 

Swiss Pudding. 

1 cup flue bread-cmmba. I i teaspoon salt 

2 cups milk. | saltspoon pepper. 

3 eggs. i pound cheese, grated. 
1 tablespoon butter, melted. | 

Soak the crumbs in the milk, add the other ingredients, cover 
vitb dsj crumbs, and hake in a quick oven till browned. 

Potato Balls. — Pare and boil six potatoes of uniform size. 
When done, take each in a towel and squeeze imtU diy. Tnm out 
on a hot platter and serve at once. 

I^onnalse Potatoes.— Chop one email onion, and fty it slowly 
in two tableapoons of butter. When slightly colored, add about 
tliree cups of cold potatoes, sliced or diced- Sprinkle over them a 
little salt, pepper, a tablespoon each of chopped parsley and lemon- 
Juice. Stir caj-efuUy with a fork till all the potatoes are buttered 
and hot, but not browned. 

Creamed Potatoes. — Slice the potatoes while hot Season 
with salt and pepper. Pour over them a cup of hot cream with a 
teaspoon of butter melted In It. 

SwBET Potatoes may be baked or boiled. They are better 
baked. Cold sweet potatoes may be cut in slices, warmed In mfllc, 
and seasoned with butter and salt, or browned In butter. 

A SonTHBsx Dish. — Cut cold baked sweet potatoes into quarter- 
inch slices, and put them In an earthen dish. Spread each layer 
with butter, and sprinkle slightly vrith sugar, and bake until hot 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 

and slightly browned. Sweet potatoea &i 
ooolMd- JiVx™ Mr.. IM. 

Asparagus. — Wash carefully and tie in bundles. Pttt it inlo 
boiling salted water in a deep kettle, with the tips up and out ot 
the water. Tlie steam will cook them sufficiently. Boil about 
twenty mmutes. Dip slices of dry toast in the asparagus water ; 
spread with butter, lay them on a large platter. Put tbe asparagua 
on the t«8St with tiie tips towards the ends of the platter. Season 
with butler and salt. 

Bpinacli. — Pick over and discard any wilted leaves. Wash 
thoroughly in four or five waters. Tear into small bite and put is 
a kettle without any wafer. Let it stand on the back of the stove 
until the juice Is drawn out, then boil nntil tender. Drain and 
chop fine ; season witb salt, pepper, vinegar, and butter. Pack it 
closely into small cups, and place in the oven or in a pan of hot 
water to keep hot. Separate Uie yolks and whites of three hard- 
boiled eggs. Cut Ote whites into thhi strips an Inch long. Kub 
the yolks through a fine strainer. Turn the spinach out on a 
platter, flatten the top slightly. Make a circle of white round the 
top of each, and put a spoonful of the fine yolk In the centre. If 
there be more egg than is needed, make a daisy on opposite comers 
of the dish. 

Ortiens. — The leaves and stalks of yoting beets, milkweed, dan. 
dellons, and oarrovr dock are useful as food in the early spring, 
chiefly for the water and alkaline salts which they conttun. They 
should be picked over and washed carefully, cooked in boiling 
salted water until tender, tiien drained, and seasoned with butter 
and salt. Vinegar is often used with them as a desirable condi- 
ment Many people consider It necessary to boil a piece of salt 
pork with greens, but they are more wholesome when seasoned 
with butter. Dandelions should be cooked in plenty of water; 
but other tender greens may be cooked, like spinach, in their own 

Beans. String Bbans. — Remove the strings. The surest way 
to do tliis is to pare a thin strip from each edge of the pods. Many 
persons think this unnecessary; bnt the beans are much more 



72 THE PZEKLES3 COOK-BOOK. 

delicate, and two or three strings are enough to spoil tlie whole 
dish. La; a hajidful of the pods on a board with the ends even, 
and cut them alt at once into inch pieces. Wash, and cook in 
boiling Baited water from one to three hours, the time varying with 
different varieties of beans. Drain; season with butter, salt, and 
cream, and serve hot, or serve cold as a salad. When very youiig 
and tender, they may be cooked in just water enough to keep them 
from buTuiug. 

Shell Beans. — Wash, and cook in boiling water; always use 
soft water. Add salt aft«i ten minulei), and boil until tender. Let 
the water boil nearly away, end serve wiUiout draining. Season 
with hatter and salt. Lima beans and other white varieties ara 
improved by adding a little hot cream. 

B«ets. — Wash, bnt do not cut them, as tiiat destroys the sweet- 
ness and color. Coq^ in boiling water until tender. Young beets 
will cook in one hour, old beets require a longer time ; and if toi^, 
wilted, or stringy, tliey will never boil tender. When cooked, put 
them in a pan of cold water, and rub off the sliin. Toting beets axe 
cut in slices, and served hot with butter, salt, and pepper, or cut in 
small cubes and served in a white sauce. They are often pickled 
in vinegar, spiced or plain, and served cold ; or they may be out 
into dice, aud mixed with other vegetables for a salad. 

Summer Sauasbes are good only when young, fresh, and 
tender. Wash, and cut into quarters or smaU pieces. The Bkln 
and seeds need not be removed. Cook in boiling salted water 
twenty minutes, or until tender. Flaee the squash in a str^ner- 
clot^, mash it thoroughly, squeeze the cloth until the squash is diy. 
Add a little cream or butter, salt and pepper, and heat again before 
serving. 

Green or Sn'eet Corn. — Remove the husk, aJid every thread 
of the silky fibre. Put into boiling water, cover with the clean 
inner h-ueks, and cook from five to fifteen minutes. Try a kernel, 
and t&kt. up the com as soon as the milk lias thickened and the 
raw tABle is destroyed. Com, if boiled a long while, is made hard 
anil 'Is fiavor impaired. 

Huccotash.— This may be made by mixing equal quantlHea of 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 73 

Bhelled beana and com cnt from the cob, having fltat cooked and 
Heasoned them eeparately. Or cut tie raw com from the cob, by 
scoring each row and pressing the pulp out with the back ot the 
knife, leaving the hulls on the cob, and, when the beans are aearlf 
fioft, add the com, and cook flft«en minutes. Add cream, batter, 
salt, and sugar to taste. In winter, when the vegetables are dr; 
and hard, soak the com and Lima beans over night. Put the beans 
on in cold water, changing it twice. As soon as it boils, add the 
com, and cook slowly several hours, or till soft. Season with 
butter, sugar, and salt. Canned Lima beans and canned com are 
also used. 

Dried Sireet Com. — When sweet com Is abnndant, boil it 
from five to ten minutea", then cut and scrape it from the cob and 
dry it carefully in the sun. Keep it in a dry place, where It villi be 
secure from mice. Some cold night, when you want a tempdug 
relish that can be quickly prepared, grind a cupful ot the com hi 
a coflee-mill, put it in a spider with a pint of cold water, let it 
heat slowly nnldl swollen and He water is absorbed ; then add milk 
enough to make it like a thin pur^. Boil about five minutes ; add 
a tablespoon of butter, and salt and pepper to taste. A scant tea- 
spoon of sugar is an improvemenL 

Green-Corn Fritters, or Mock Oysters. — Cat through each 
row of kernels with the point of a sharp knife. Then with the back 
of the knife press out the puJp, and leave the hull on the cob. This 
is better and easier than to shave or grate ofi the kernels. To one 
pint of corn-pulp add two well-beaten eggs, half a teaspoon of salt, 
halt a saltspoon ot pepper, and two tablespoons ot flour, or jnst 
enough to keep the com and egg together. Do not add milk, as 
then more flour will be required, and this destroys the flavor ot the 
com. Fry in small cakes on a buttered griddle, and brown well on 
each side ; oi add more flour and another e^, aod drop by spoon- 
fuls into deep fat. When highly seasoned with salt and pepper, 
these fritters have the flavor ot oysters. Make in the same way 
with canned com, finely chopped. Add two teblespoona of milk, 
as the canned com is less moist than the fresh. 

Ifom Mn. iincoffi'i •^■Bottiyn Cotk-Bvikr 

St«wed Cucnmben. — Pare the large cucumbers, cat lengtl^ 



74 THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 

wise Into tour parta, and remove the lo^ seeds. Bosk £hem half 
an hour In cold water. Cook in boiling salted water to cover ontil 
tender. Drain off the water; add a little butter, salt, and p^>per, 
and, when well heated, serve on toast; or ma^e a thin white sanco 
and poor over them. Try them. 

C»nUflawer. — Remove the outer stalks. Soak fn cold water, 
and cook in boiling salted water about twenty minutes. Drain, 
separate the stalks, put them in a dish, and season to taste ; or, 
with two tablespoons lemon-juice, a litde salt and pepper mixed 
with quarter of a cnp of melted butter. Or pour a thin white sauce 
over the cauliflower and Hprinkie coarse bread-crumbs, which hav^ 
been browned in butter, over the sauce. 

Dressed Celery.— Use only Uie white, crisp put of the celery 
stalks. The green parts may be made into a purte or used in 
soaps. Scrape off the brown discolored part, and wash tLorooghly. 
Keep in cold water, and, when ready to serve, drain and arrange in 
a celery.glass. Beive with salt. Or cut the celery in thin slices, 
moisten with French or Mayonnaise dressing, and garnish wltlk 
lettuce, cresses, or celery leaves. 

Celery. — Scrape clean, and cat tbe stalks into Inch pieces; cook 
In boilii^ salted water half an hour, or until lender. Drain and 
mix with a while sauce ; or dip them In fritter batter, and by la 
hot fat. Celery Is nsuiilly eaten raw, as a salad, but Is more 
digestible when cooked. Celery is particularly good for nervooa 
or rtieumatic people. 

Bgg-PIant. — Cut the plant IntA slices one-thlid of an inch 
thick, without removing the skin. Sprinlde salt over each slice, 
[die tiiem, and cover with a weight to press out the juice. Drain, 
and dip each slice first In fine crumbs, then In beaten e^i and 
agtdn in cnunbs, and sant^ them in hot fat. 

Egg-PlAJkt. — Cut off a slice from tiie stalk end and remove the 
Inside ; be careful not to break through the skin. Cook about ten 
minutes in boiling salted wat«r. Slice and parboil one small onion. 
Chop the egg-plant and onion, add half a cup of soft brud-cnmtbs, 
« lltUe salt and pepper, one tablespoon of butter or cream, and on* 



THE PEEHtEBS COOK-BOOK. 75 

le back on Qte top, and bake 

Turnips In White Sauce, — Wash and cut French tumipa 
into half or three-quarter inch slices ; pare and cut each slice into 
strips, and then into cubes. Boil in boiling Ealteii water nntil 
tender. Drain and pour white sauce over them. Turnips may 
also be mashed, drained, and seaaoaed with butter, pepper, and 
salt. The white turnips are more delicate tlian the yellow. 

Vegetable Oysters. — Wash a bunch of salsify, and cook in 
boilii^ salted water till the skin will peal easily. Remove the skin 
and cut in inch pieces. Put a layer of buttered cracker-crumbs in 
a scaJlopdish, add a sprinkling of salt and pepper, then a layer of 
salsify, with milk enough to cover; then crumbs and seasoning on 
top. Bake until brown. 

Bcalloped OutouB. — Parboil one quart of onlonalntwowateni. 
Cut them in slices. Put them in a deep dish in alternate layeta 
with sliced tomatoes and thin slices of cold meat, beef or mutton ( 
season each layer with salt and pepper and butter, and cover with 
bread-crumbs and bits of butter. Bake half an hour. 

Baked Tomatoes. — Select smooth, round tomatoes, of uniform 
size, not very juicy. I'ut them in hot water, remove the skin, cut 
them in halves and scoop out all the seeds. Chop, and rub to 
a powder one third of a cup of boiled bam or tongue. Add two- 
thirds of a cup of soft breadcrumbs, one teaspoon of chopped 
parsley or one saltspoon of thyme, a little pepper and sufScient 
melted butter to moisten. Fill the tomatoes with the mixtuie, 
place them in a shallow dish, and bake fifteen minutes. 

Tomatoes with Rice, — Scald and peel three large smooth 
tomatoes. Cut them in halves, scoop out Hie seeds and juice with- 
out breaking the pulp. Scald the juice enough to strain out tba 
seeds. To the jidce add sugar to taste, and mix with it as much 
warm boiled rice as it will absorb ; add salt and a little butter. 
Fill the tomatoes with the mixture. Place each half temato on a 
round of bread buttered. Put them in a shallow pan and bafca ten 
minutes, or until the bread is browned. 

Fried Oreen Tomatoes. — Cut oH both ends from nlc», large. 



76 THE PBEKLESa COOK-BOOE. 

green tomatoes, cat in thin slices ; roll them in flour, and cook them 
in hot butter in the frying-pan. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and 
BDgar, and cook until brown. Frj a sliced onion with them if joa 
like the flavor. Serve them with fish-balls. 

Canton Rice. — Steam one cup of rice In two caps of bolliag 
water half an hour. Add, while hot, quarter of a cup of batter, 
one teaspoon of salt, and a saltspoon of pepper. Stew one pint of 
sliced tomatoes, sea-^on with salt, pepper, butter, and a little sugar. 
Cook until quite thick. Turn the rice out on a platter, pour the 
stewed tomatoes over the rice, and serve with it as a sauce. 



Stetuued lUce.— Pour two cups of boiling water on one cup of 
well-washed rice ; add half a teaspoon of salt. Cook in the double 
boiler thirty minutes, or till sofL Remove the cover, stir with 
a fork to let the steam escape, and dry oil the rice. Rice will 
usually absorb twice its bulk of water ; but, when cooked in milk or 
stock, a little more moisture will be required. Some of the nitro- 
genous and mineral constituents, of which rice has but a small 
amount, are lost in the boiling water, and, unless the water be used 
tor soap, to boil rice is a wasteful process. Steaming is a much 
easier method, and is more economicaL 

HacaronL — Break one quarter of a pound of macaroni in three- 
Inch pieces, and put into three pints of boiling salted water. Boil 
twenty minutes, or until sofL Drain in a colander, and pour cold 
water through it to cieanse and keep it from sticking. Cut into 
Inch pieces. Lay the strips on a board, parallel to each other, and 
cut through them all at once. Put in a shallow baking-dish and 
cover wiih a white sauce, made with a cup and a half of hot milk, 
one tablespoon of butter, and one tablespoon of flour, cooked ac- 
cording to directions for white sauce. Add half a teaspoon of salt. 
Mix two-thirds of a cup of flne cracker^aumbs with a third of 
a cup of melted butter, and sprinkle over the top. Bake till the 

crumbs are brown. From Mri. Lincoln's " Botim Coolc-Sook." 



Macaroni. — Cook qoarter of a pound of macaroni, broken into 
inch pieces, In one quart of boiling water with a teaspoon of salt 
and a saltspoon of pepper, for fifteen minutes. Drain ofi the water, 
and add one cup of stock. Sii£mer until the stock Is abfiorb*4 



THE PEEELE3S COOK-BOOK. 77 

being carefal that it does not bum. Sprinkle two tablespoons of 
grated Paimesan or any dtj cheese over the macaroni, and, when 
melted, add a tablespoon of butter. When the butter is melted, 
spiead it evenly over the macaroni, serve at once and very hot 
Fried Apples. — Melt enough butter to cover the bottom of 
a frying-pan or a granite pie-plate. Fill the dish nith apples, pared 
and quartered. Sprinkle over them half a, cup of sugar. When 
hot, place the dish in the oven and cook slowly till lender. Torn 
ont on toast, and serve hot, 

Freach Dressing. 
i teaspoon salt 1 3 tablespoona oliv&oiL 

1 saltspoon white pepper. 1 1 tablespoon vinegar. 
This dressing is for vegetables, and is also used whea high sea 
Boning is desired in a meat or fish salad. A few drops i^ onion- 
jnice may be used if preferred. 

Salad Cream. 
Tolks 4 eggs. I 3 teaspoons powdered etigar. 
1 tablespoon of mufltard. 1 cup v: 



1 " butter. 



4- cup cream. [ Whites of four eggs. 

Beat the yolks well. Wet the mustard with cold water; add salt. 
sugar, and cream, and mix it well with the yolks. Melt the butter 
in the hot vinegar, add the mixture, and atir over hot water until 
it thickens. Jnst before serving, beat the whites, and beat them 
gradually into the dressing. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

1 teaspoon mnatard. j Yolks of 2 raw eggs. 

1 teaspoon powdered sugar. 1 pint olive.oil. 

i teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons vinegar. 

I saltspoon cayenne. 1 2 tablespoons lemon-Juloe. 

Mir the flrat four Ingredients in a small bowl. Add the egga 
Stir well with a small wooden spoon. Add the oU, a few drops at 
a time, stirring until it thickens. K by chance you add too much 
oil, do not attempt to stir it all in at once, but take It up gradually. 
When the dresBing is thick, thin it with a little lemon, then add 
oil and lemon alternately, and lastly the vinegar. When ready to 
serve, add half a cup of whipped cream, if you like. The cream 



78 THE PEEKLESS COOK-BOOK. 

loakeH it whiter and thinner. The oil Bhould thicken the egg almost 
immediatel;, and the mixture should be Uiick enough to be taken 
up In a ball on the apoon, before adding Uie vinegar. Should the 
egg not thicken quickly, and have a curdled appeanrace, half a 
teaspoon ol the unbeaten white of egg or a few dropa of vinegar 
will often restore the Bmoott coneistency. Be careful not to nee 
tAO much, as it will make the dresaing thin. The dxeBBing liquefies 
as BOon as mixed with vegetables or meat ; therefore it should be 
made stiS enough to keep in sliape until used. The Bogar may 
be omitted if preferred- Lobster coral, dried and pounded to a 
powder, will give a Mayonnaise a brightred color. Spinach green, 
green peas mashed, or chopped parsley, will color it green. Never 
mix the Mayonmdse dressing with the meat or fish untji ready to 
serve, and tlien only part of it, and spread tlie remainder over ths 
top. Mayoimajse i^rtare is simply t^e addition of chopped olives, 
pickles, parsley, capers, and onions to the Hay ouu^se. 

Bntter Dresaing for Vegetable Salad. — Meltooe quarter 
of a cup of butter in a plate. Do not let it boiL Mix -with it one 
teaspoon of dry mustard, one saltspoon wbit« pepper, a little cay- 
enne, and one tablespoon of vinegar. Stir with a fork, and as the 
butter cools it will thicken. Mix It with asparagus, string-beans, 
shell-beans, cauliflower, or other warm vegetables, and serve cold. 
Salad Dressing for Tomatoes. 
I teaspoon sugar. 1 1 tablespoon cream. 

1 saltspoon salt. 1 egg. 

i teaspoon mustard. | J cup vinegar. 

Cook over boUing water unto it thickens. ^Vhen cold, pour it 
over sliced tomatoes. 

Plain Salad.— Chop one cup of cold lamb, chicken, veal, or 
nsh. Chop one smaJl onion and two hard-boiled eggs. Cut one 
head of lettuce Into long narrow pieces. Mix all thoroughly, season 
with oil, mustard, and vinegar, or pour over it a dressing made as 
tor sliced tomatoes. 

i,„'^'*i*'" Salad.-Cut six cold boned potatoes and six haid. 
boiled eggs in slices. Put a layer of potatoes in a dish, and poui 
*^hll^ two tablespoons of melted butter or hot bacon fat, and 
a toblespoon of.vln^r. Add a layer of sliced eggs ; season highly 



THE FEEBLES3 COOK-BOOK. 79 

with salt and pepper. Then another layer of potatoes, eggs, and 
aeaaoning, Keep it in a cool place until ready to aerre. 

Cucumber Salad. — Peel and cut the cucumberd Into qoarter- 
incli BlioeB. Soak in ioe-wat«r. Scald and peal three or four la^e 
toniatoea. Cut them in halves and remove the seeds. Drain and 
cut the cucumbers in email dice, season witb salt, pepper, oil, and 
lemon-juice or vinegar. Pnt them into tbe cavities, and, when ready 
to serve, put a spoonful of boiled dressing on each. 

Tomato Salad. — Cut large round tomatoes of uniform dze in 
halves ; scoop out the palp without breaking the skin. Cat Beveial 
slices of cold tongue into small dice, mix them with tbe tomato.pa:^ 
and juice, add a little salt, cayenne, oil, and lemon-}nIce. Fill Hie 
tomatoskins, and keep them on Ice. Serve on a crisp leaf of 
lettuce. 

Crab Salad.— Kemove the meat from the sbellB; mix with it 
enough sauce tartare to moisten IL Put it in the cleaned shells, 
garnish vdth sliced lemon, cut in quarters, tatd laid one lapping 
over another round the edge. 

Iiobster Balad,— Cut the lobster fine and moisten it slightly 
with a M^onnaise dressing. Pack it cloBely in a buttered monld, 
and keep on ice until ready to serve. Turn out on a platt«r. 
Spread the top and sides with a thick Hayonnuse. Cut lettnce 
into half-inch strips, and pile lightly around the base. Put slices 
of red radish or rings of beet here and there among the green. 

Cabbage Salad. — Cut half a white cabbage in very thin strips, 
sprinkle with salt, put it between two plates, and let it stand one 
hour. Drain off the water, sprinkle it with a French dressing. 
Pile it lightly In a domoflhaped mass. Cut cold beets in thin slices, 
separate into rings, and arrange the rings In an overlapping border 
nronnd the base. 

Oyster Salad.— Clean one pint of white celery, and out into 
flue pieces. Season with salt. Parboil one pint of oysters, di^n, 
and when cold mix them with a French dressing. Put a layer of 
ehreded lettuce in a salad-bowl, sprinkle with a French dressing, 
add tbe oysters and celery, oorer with a Mayonn^se dressing, and 
gamlsh with pickled barberries. , 



so THK PEEELE88 COOK-BOOK. 

Starlmp Salad. — One pint white cabbage sbaved thin, season 
with boiled dressing. Mix a French dressing with one can of 
shrimps. Put a spoonful of the cabbage in a lettace lea^ and 
arrange three or foor siirlmps on tlie cabbage. 
0«niian Salad. 
-} cnp cabbage. 1 teaspoon flonr. 

t " celery. 1 tablespoon engar. 

1 plcUed cocninber. i teaspoon salt. 

1 nard-boiled ^. 1 saltepoon pepper. 

1 pint hot msshed potatoes, i teaspoon mustard. 
i cup bntter. ^ cup liot vinegar. 

Chop the T^etabtes and egg and mix them wit^ the hot potato. 
Halt the butter in the hot vinegar. Mix the aeasoning, add a little 
of tbe hot vinegar, and, when smooth, atir it into the boiling vinegar. 
Cook untH it thickens, tben pour it qnickl; into one viell-beaien 
egg. Heat again for a moment, and poor it over the salad. 
Salad Sandwiches. 
1 cnp cold chicken. 1 1 saltspoon cayenne. 

1 " " boiled tongue. Majonnaise to moisten. 
i teaspoon celery salt. | 
Chop tha meat very fine, then rab with a pestle till fine, like oieaL 
Add tlie seasoning and enongh cream or Mayonnaise dressing to 
make it moist enough to spread easily. Pnt it between thin rounds 
of tiread. Roll soda^iscuit dough thin as pastry, spread witli 
butler, roll another layer and put on. Cat out, and bake quickly. 
Poll apart, and spread with the mixture. 

Sweetbread Salad. — Parboil twenty minutes, cool, rsmove 
fat and veins, separate into small pieces, or cut into dice. Mix 
them with an equal amount of fine celery. Season witb Mayon- 
njuse or boiled^iream dressing. Serve on a bed of shred lettuce, 
and garnish vrith shrimps, or with pickled barberries. 

Puff Paste. — One pound of the t«Bt butter, one pound of 
pastry flour, one scant teaspoon of salt, about one cup of ice-water. 
By measure, use one quart of flour and one pint of butter. Wasli 
the butter in cold water, divide into four parts, pat until thin, wrap 
It in a napkin and place in a pan l>etween two pans of ice. Mix the 
salt with the flour, rub in one part of the butter, add the ice-water 
slowly, mix with a knife, and cut till it can be taken up clean from 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 81 

Oie bowL Toss out on a well-floured board, pat into a flat cake, 
then toll out until half an inch thick. Roll one part of the butter 
thin, and la; it on the middle of the paBt«. Fold the sides toward 
the nuddle, then the ends over, and double again. Pat and roll out 
ag^n. Uepeat this ptocesa with the remaining pieces of butter. 
When the butter is all rolled in, the paste should be rolled and 
folded till no streaks of butter can be seen. After the last rolling, 
place it on the ice to harden, as it may then be cut and shaped more 

eaHilj. From J/n. lAncoln'a " Boiion Cook-Booh:' 

Plee. — Tor pies, roll the puS paste out a qnarter of au inch 
Uiick, then roll up, and cut from the end of the roll. Turn each 
piece on the side, so that the folds show in rings, and pat out flat, 
then roll to fit the plate. Keep the paste in a circular form, aod 
toll evenly in every direction. Make slightly larger than the 
plate, as the paste shrinks when taken from the board, and shoiUd 
be fulled in rather than sb^tehed to the required size. Roll some 
o{ the paste, and cut inte strips three quarters of an inch wide ; 
wet the under crust and place the rim on the edge. Use one rim 
for pies which are to be covered, and two, if you like, for pies with- 
out an upper crust. Fill the plate with the material to be used. 
Holl the upper crust larger than the plate, make a cut in the centre 
to let the steam escape, wet the rims, put the crust on the edge even 
with the lim and slightly fuller in the centre, to allow for shrinking 
in baking ; otherwise the crust, as it is forced up by the steam 
within, will draw away from the edge. Wet every spot of the rim 
and edge, and press closely but lightly together, to keep the juices 
from boiling out. All pies, meat pies especially, with a top crust 
should have several holes cut in the emst to let the steam escape. 
All fruit pies are better flavored if made with fresh, rather than 
stewed, fruits. If to be fiUed with juicy fruit, or cream, they are 
more wholesome prepared as follows: Bake the two crusts sepa- 
rately, stew the fruit, fill, and put the two together. Or fill vrith 
a modi filling of pieces of clean cloth ; bake, remove the cloQi, and, 
just before serving, fill with the prepared fruit. Pies should bake 
from half to three quarters of an hour, or till brovm. Use tin plates, 
as pies bake better on the bottom in them. No greasing Is needed, 
and the pies should be changed to earthen plates as soon as done. 

From ifrt. tineoMi "Boiton Cooh-Book" 



82 THE PEEELE6S COOK-BOOK. 

Pastry for One Pie. 

1 heaping cup paattj flour. I i cup lard. 

1 saltapcmn baking-powder. i " butter. 

1 " Halt I 

Mix Bait and baking-powder with the flonr and rub In the lard. 
Mix quite stiS with cold water. Koll out, put the butter on the 
paste in pieces the size of beans, and sprinkle with flour. Fold 
over, and roll out. Roll up like a jelly-roll. Divide in two parts, 
and roll to fit the plate. 

Rhubarb Ple.^Steam the rhubarb. Drain off the water; 
beat the pulp till fine ; add to one pint of pulp one cup angsr, one 
teaspoon floor, and two egge. Bake tn one crast, and cover with 
a meringue. 

No, 2. — Cut the rhubarb in half-inch pieces. Hiz one heap- 
ing cup of sugar, two talileepoonB of flour, and a pinch of salt. 
IJne the plat« with paste, brush over with the white of egg, sprinkle 
thickly with the sugar, add the rhubarb, and cover with sugar. 
Cover with a crust, wet the edges and press them together firmly, 
and bind with a narrow atrip of wet cotton cloth, * 

Ppnne Pie. — Stew half a pound of prunes in a little water till 
very soft. Remove the stones, add sugar to taste, and mash uutO 
they are aU broken. Beat the whites of two eggs atiS, and add 
gradually the prune pulp. Line a plate with crust, bake, and, 
when nearly done, fill with the prune, and bake about fifteen 

Hock Mince Pie. 

3 tablespoons butter. 



sugar. 



Mix In the order given, and bake in t^ 
Lemon Pie. 

Line a pie-plate wltb paste and rim, and bake In a quick o 
Prick the crost to prevent its rising in the centre. 
1 even tablespoon connrtarch. 1 1 e^. 
1 cup si^ar. 1 lemon. 

1 saltspoon salt. 1 1 cup hot vniter. 



THE PEEELESS COOK-BOOK. 83 

Cook in ihe double bolter until It thickens. When the crust ie 
done, torn the cooked mixture into it Beftt the whites of three 
eggs, nith a fork or wiTe-bea(er, oh a, platter ; vhen stiff, add grad- 
ually three tableepoons powdered sugar. Pile it lightJj over the 
piea, and color it a delicate brown. 

Apple-Custard Pie. 
2 raw apples. 1 2 eggs. 

1 cup HQgar. 1 cup sweet mUk. 

1 Btutspoon cinnamon. [ 
Choose ripe, mild apples, scrape to a pulp with a silver knife. 
Hiz with the sogar and spice, add the beaten egg and milk. Bake 
In one crust. 

Midgre Pie. 

1 cup Trains chopped fine. 1 2 cups sugar. 

2 cups water. H cup vinegar. 
1 nutmeg. i " butter. 

1 t«a«poon cinnamon. 1 1 " cracker^nunbs- 
Cook well before filling the pies. 

Strawberry Pie. — Cover a pie-plat« vrith a thin layer of rich 
paste, l^it on a rim, and fill the centre with bread-crusts. Bake 
in a quick oven, and, when done, remove the bread, and fill with 
strawbernes which have t«en rolled in sugar. Beat the whites of 
ttiree ^gs stift, add three tablespoons of powdered sugar, spread 
over the berries, and brown it slightly in the oven. Serve cold 
nith cream. 

Raspberry Tarta, 

1 e^. 1 1 cup rasptieny jelly. 

8 tablespoons thick cream. [ Sugar to taste. 

Beat the egg, add the cream, jelly, and sugar. Fill tart«heUs, 
and bake quickly- 

Florentlnea. — Koll rich paste very thin. Turn a baking-pan 
bottom-up, and flour it well. Lay the past« on the pan, trim the 
edges, and bake quickly. Spread with peach or grape marmalade, 
then a thin coating of meilngue, then sprinkle nith chopped almonds 
and sugar. Brown slightly, and cut into long narrow strips. 



84 THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 

Lemon Tamorers. 

1 lemon grated, rind and juice. I i cup chopped citron. 
1 cup sugar. 1 teaapoon buU«r. 

i " currants. [ 1 tablespoon ccacket-doiit. 

Put all the ingredieDts into a granite saoce-pan, and stir over the 
flie until hot Put a teaepoonful on a small round at rich pastt^, 
wet the edge, fold and pcesa the edges tj>gether. Prick with a fork, 
and bake quickly. 

Pudding Sauc«. 
1 tablespoon butter. I i cup powdered sugar. 

1 even tablespoon flour. 2 tablespoons lemon-juiceorfmit- 
1 cup hot mlDt. syrup, 

legg. I 

Melt the butter, stir iu the flour, add the hot milk gradually. 
Beat the egg, add the sugar, stir this into the thickened milk, cook 
one minute, and add the flavoring. 

Fruit-Syrup Sauce. 
1 cup fniit^iyrup. 1 1 teaapoon com-starch. 

i " Hugar. 1 1 " butter. 

Use the ayrup from apricots, peaches, cherries, quinces, or any 
fruit you prefer. The amount of sugar will depend upon the acidity 
of the fruit Mix the com-starch with the sugar, add the syrup, 
and boil all together five minutes. Add butter last 
Foaming Sauce. 
Whites of 2 eggs. 1 1 cup boiling milk. 

1 cup powdered sugar. | Juice of one lemon. 
Beat the whitee of the eggs till foamy, but not dry ; add the 
sugar gradually, and when well mixed add lemon-juice; then beat 
in the boiling milk, adding It alowly. 

Cream Sauce for Puddings. — Mix one cup cream and half 
a cup of powdered sugar. Flavor with one teaspoon lemon or 
vanilla, or with half a teaspoon of spice, or one-fourth cup of jelly. 
Beat it until light, add the beaten white of one egg, and serve it on 
any pudding usually eatea with augar and cream. 
Creamy Sance. 
i cup butter. 1 2 tablespoons wine, 

i cup powdered sugar sifted. 1 2 " cream. 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 85 

Creua the batter ; odd the sugar slowly, then the wine and 
cream. Beat well, tuid just before serving place the bowl over bat 
water and stir till smootb and creamy, bat not enoogli to melt the 
batter. Wben the wine and cream are added, the sauce baa a 
curdled appearance. Th]a ia removed bj thorough beating, and 
by heating joat enough to blend the materials smoothly. It is not 
intended to be a hat sauce ; and, it the sance become oily in heating, 
place tbe bowl in cold water and beat again until amootli like thicic 
cream. Omit the wine if desired, and use half a cup of cream and 
one teaspoon of vanilla, or one tableapoon of lemon-juice. Serve 
on any hot pudding. Fnm Mrt. Mneoln'» " Bottoit Cooh-Book." 

Soft Puddlng-Sance. 

i cup butter. I White of 1 egg or three tabl«- 

1 cup powdered sugar. spoons cream. 

Spice to taate. j 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, spice and beaten egg or cream. 
Newark Padding. 

1 pint milk. I 1 cup eugar. 

1 cup soft bread-crumbe. 1 tablespoon batter. 

3 eggs. 1 1 lemon. 

Boil the milk, add the bread and butter. When cool, add the 
yolks of the eggs well-beaten, with half the sngar and the grated 
lemoQ-rind. Turn into the dish for serving, a:id bake fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Cover with a meringue of the whites of iJie eggs 
the remainder of the sugar and the lemon-juice. Brown slightly, 
and serve at once without sauce. 



1 cup fine-chopped suet. 
_i d raisins. 



Snet Pudding. 



}^ 



2 teaspoons baking-powder. 
i teaspoon cinnamon. 
\ " ' nutmeg. 
1 cup hot water. 
1 teaspoon s^t. Floor for stiB batter. 

&t«am tliree hours; serve with any hot liquid sauce. 
Orange Pudding. 
1 heaping tablespoon batter. | Yolks 4 egga well-beaten. 
1 eup sugar. 4 tableBpoons fine cracker- 

. Grated imd of 1 orange. cruqibB. 

1 eup orange-juice and pulp. 1 1 cup milk. 



S6 THE PEEELES8 COOK-BOOK. 

Bake In a deep dish lined with paste. Beat Qi6 trtkitee of tba 
eggi with halt a cup of sugar. Spread ovet the U>p, aitd coloff 
■lightly. 

Peach Pudding. 
1 pint Btale bread. j 1 sallspoon salt 

1 quart milk. i eggs. 

i cnp butter. fl or 8 peaches. 

j " Btigar. I 

Omts the inside of a loal, and soak it in the hot milk. Vxco, 
halve, and stone the peaches, and place them, the hollow side up, 
in. a buttered mould. Creaoi the butter ; add the sugar, salt, eggs 
well-beaten, and stjr all into the milk. Pour It over the peaches, 
cover, and place the mould in a pan of hot water in the otcd and 
bake two bonn. Serve with wine or creamy sauce. 

Almond Cream. 
I cup lice. I i cnp sugar. 

H xont milk. i teaspoon aalb 

I cup sweet almonds. | 

Bliutch the almonds, chop them fine ; put them ^th tite rfoe, 
migor, and salt, into the milk, and steam till the rice is tender. 
Serve it hot, with cream and grape-jelly. A pretty way is to ha)J 
fill fancy cups with the cream, then add two tablespoons of cream 
and one of jelly. 

Berry Podding. 

8 pints blueberries. 1 1 teaspoon soda. 

6 cups flour. i " salt 

1 pint N. O. molasses. | i " cinnamon. 
Bon hi a buttered mould or pail three hours. Half of thia recdpt 
fs enough for a small family. 

NeTTmarket Podding. 

1 pint grated bread. 1 1 tablespoon butler. 



Soak the bread one hour. When baked add a layer of JeHy over 

the top, then cover with a meringue made of the whites of tba eggs, 
and half a cup of sugar. Brown slightly. 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOE. 



Uftlze Padding. 

i teaspoon Eillsptce. 
1 cup sweet milk. 
i " P. R. molasses, 

H cup stoned raisins. 
Tnm Into a buttered pudding-mould, pliLce t^e mould in boiling 
water, l^ld btdl two boura. 

Cocoauut Padding. 
1 cocoannt. I 1 pint sponge-cake. 

!cup sugar. i cup wme, or 

pint milk. [ i " fruilrayrup. 

Giate the cocoanat, put it witb tlie sugar and millc into a double 
boiler, and cook fifteea minutes. Put a layer of spongecake, 
cmmbled finely, in a pudding-dish ; pour on a little ot Qie wine or 
syrup; add a layer of cocoanat, then another layer of coke and 
cocoanut, leaving cake on tbe top. Four the milk ot^. Bake half 
an hour. Serre bot witboat sauce. 

Tapioca Pudding. 
1 quart milk. [ 1 saltapooa sploe, or 

i cup pearl tapioca. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

1 saXtspoon salt I tablespoon butter. 

4 eggs. 1 1 heaping tablespoon angar. 

Boll the milk, pick over and wash the tapioca, put it Into thi. 
boUlng milk witlk the salt, and cook until soft. Beat the eggs, add 
tbe t^ce, sugar, and butter ; mix wiUi the milk, and poor into 
a battered puddlng-diah. Place the dish in a pan of hot water, and 
bake antil the custard Is firm. Stir three or f oar times, to mix the 
tt^oca with the cnstatd. When a knife comes out dean it Is don& 
Collata Padding. 
1 squar* chocolate. | i cup sugar. 

I cup fine cracker-crumbs. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
I large tablespoon butter, i eggs (whites). 
I cup "liifc boiled. j 

(^te the chocolate, mix it with the cracker, add the batter and 
hot milk, and mix thoroughly. Add tbe sugar, vanilla, tmd whites 
of e^B beaten very light. Boil in a buttered meloiKnoolil out 
hoot. 



THE PEEELES8 COOK-BOOK. 



Sauce for the Pudding 
4 eggs (yolks). I i cap wine, or 

i cup water. | i " lemcm-jiiice. 

Mix all, uid Btlr over the flra imtJl It thickens. 

Baapberry Trifle. — Sle&m one cap of rice In three cops ot 
milk till soft. Salt to taste, and let It dry ofi. File lightly on 
a platter, making a wall or border roood the edge. Fill the cenire 
with fresh raepberries, piling them higlier than the rice. Sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. Reserve one pint of the berries, mash, and 
atraia the juice, sweeten te taste, and mix it with one cup of cream. 
Pom Uiis giadoaliy over the rice border. 

Patna Pudding. — Steam one cnp of rice with three cups of 
mUk unUl very soft. Add half a teaspoon of salt. Eemove the 
cover, and stir with a fork, to let the steam escape. Keep it hot, 
and, when ready to serve, (Aim it out on a shallow dish. Make 
several slight hollows in it, and put into each a whole brandied 
peach or a canned apricot. Mis the syrup of the fruit with an 
equal amount of cream, and sugar to taste, and serve as a sauce. 

Prune-Custard Pudding. — Stew half a pound of prunes in 
water to cover, until the stones will slip out easily. Let the syrup 
boil away. Soak one pint of dried cahe (any kind of butter-cake 
crumbled finely) in one quart of milk. Add two beaten e^s, 
a little salt and sploe, and the stewed prunes. Bake slowly ahont 
an hour, or until a knife will come out clean. Stir two or Oave 
times at first, te prevent the fruit from settling. Serve with creamed 
butter and sugar. 

Prune Pudding.— Stew one pound of prunes until very soft 
Let the water boll neariy all away. Sweeten to taste. Kemove the 
stones, and mash to a pulp. Add a little cracker^dnst, enough to 
stiften it slightly, and the whites of tliree eggs, beaten stiS. Bake 
In a shallow diah about twenty minutes. Serve with a sauce made 
of the yolks of the eggs, three tablespoons sugar, and one pint of 
milk, cooked like a boiled custard. 

Indian-Meal Pudding. — Bub a tablespoon of bntter atound 
Oxt bottom and sides of a smooth iron ketde,— granite or po«»- 
UnvrllldOiwhen melted, add half a cup of boiling water. This 



THE rSEKLESS COOK-BOOK. 89 

will prevent the milk from burning. Add one quart of milk. Let 
It boil ap, and almost over the kettle ; then aift in one pint of fine 
yellow granolated eom-meal, sifting with the left hand, and holding 
the meal Iiigh, that every gnun may be thoroughly aoalded. Stir 
constantly ; odd ball a teaspoon of salt, and set away till cold. 
Then add half a pint of New Orleans molaeaes and one quart of 
cold milk. Pnt into a well-buttered deep pudding-dieh, cover with 
a plate, and bake very slowly ten or twelve hours. Put it in a 
"Saturday-afternoon oven," where the Are will keep low nearly 
all night. Let it remain over night, and serve for a Sunday break- 
test. From Mrt. IAhcoIu'i •' BoUon, Coob-Book." 
College Podding. 

1 pint soft bread-crumbs. 1 saltspoon salt 

1 " warm milk. i nutmeg. 

1 tablespoon soft butter. 2 eggs. 

2 " sagar. 1 cup cunanta. 

Use the Inside of a knf of baker's bread ; soak it half an hour In 
the milk. Dry the currants in a Uttle flour. Ulz in the order 
given, and bake in custard-cups. Stir once or twice while baking, 
to prevent the currants from settling. 

Cocoanut-CDBtard Pudding, 



1 quart milk. 1 saltspoon Halt 

i cup sugar. 1 " nutmeg. 

1 pint soft biead-crumbs. 1 1 tablespoon butter. 
Soak the cocoanut and bread in the milk for half an hour. Beat 
the eggs (yolks), add the sugar and apices, stir into the milk, and 
bake in a moderate oven about an hour. Beat tie whites of e^s, 
add { cup sugar, and one teaspoon lemon-juice. Cover, and brown 
slightly. 

Cottage Padding. 

} oup butter. I 2 cups flour. 

1 " sugar. i teaspoon soda. 

1 e^. 1 " cream tartar. 

1 cup milk. 1 1 " lemon. 

Mix in the order given, and bake in small tin cups, or bake In 
a cake-pan, and cut in squares. Serve with liquid satuw. Cream 



90 THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 

qnuter of a tap of butter wlUi one cup sngar and one tablespoon 
floor, add gradually a pint of boiling water, and boil five miuotes. 
Add grated nutmeg and lemon-joice to taate. 

Pineapple Trifle. — Pick a pineapple into email bits with a 
silver forh. Hake it quite sweet, and let it stand until the sngar 
is melted. Mix with it as much dry sponge-cake, crumbled fine, aa 
it will moisten. Bake half an hour, and cover with a metingae. 

Glps7 Padding. — Cut stale sponge-cake in thin slices ; spread 
with ajjple-jellj. Fut together like a sandwich, place them in a deep 
dish, cover with boiled cuElard. Serre very cold. 

A Delicate Charlotte,— Pour a few spoonfuls of sherry wine 
over dry spong&drops or lady-fingers imtll they aX^ qnite moist. 
Sweet^i quarter oi acup of rich cream, beat it till slightly thickened. 
Fonr it over the cake, and serve at once. 

DelU Pudding. 

1 pint milk. 1 1 saltspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons com-Btarch. Whites of 3 eggs. 

) cup sngar. 1 1 teaspoon orange extract 

Boil the millc and sugar ; wet the com-staich in cold milk, Mid 
stir into the boiling milk. Stir constantly, and, when thickened 
and smooth, add tiie well-beat£n whiles. Cook a moment longer, 
add the flavoring, and turn into a shallow, fancy mould, or into 
a shallow plate. Turn out when cold, and, if moulded in a plat«, 
turn Into a round dish. Cut the edge in deep points or scallops, 
and ornament it with almonds which have been blanched and 
cut Into strips, and vrith candied cherries or bright Jelly. Make 
a boiled custard with the yolks of the eggs, and pour round the 
edge. 

Orange Meringne. 
2 tablespoons com-atarch. I S oranges, 
i cup sugar. Whites of 3 eggs, 

1 j>lnt water. 3 tablespoons powdered sngar. 

Juice of 1 lemon. | 

Mix the corn-starch and sngar. Add the water, and boil ten 
minutes, stirrii^ thoroughly ; add the lemon-juice. Peel and slice 
three oranges ; remove the seeds and pith. Arrange them In a dish 
for serving. Four the hot lemon-sauce over them. Cover with 



THE FEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 



a meringae. Bea,t the whites of the eggs etiS, add the sugar. Pile 
It lightly on a butl^d plate the same size as the puddii^.dish. 
Brovn it sightly and slide it oS over the oranges. 

Peach Tapioca. 

4 cup pearl tapioca. I i cup sugar. 

1 'saJtspoon salt. Ripe peaches. 

1 pint boiling water. | 

Cook in a double bailer till the tapioca is dissolved. Add the 
sugar and one cup of peaches sliced and mashed. Fare six peaches, 
cut them in halves, remove the stone, and place them, the cleft 
side up, in a dish for serving. Pour the tapioca over them, and 
serve very cold with sugar and cream. 

Cturamel Podding. 

J Cup sugar. . 1 2 tablespoons com-staith. 

1 quart milk. -- | i eggs. 

Melt ^QjBigar in a fr^g-pan, add two tabliepoons of water, and 
stir tilUllQirn. Geserye oike teaspoon Qf .tlie cavafiiel, and stir the 
rei^lffiQer into the milk and put gn to.'&fl. Wet the com-starch 
in cold ojnji, and stir It into the botling milk. Cook ten minutes 
after it Mgins to thicken. Then pour it into the yolks of the eggs, 
beaten well, cook about two minutes longer, add one saltspoon of 
salt, and turn into the dish for serving. Beat the whites of the eggs 
BtiS, add half a cup of powdered sugar, and a teaspoon of caramel. 
Put it on the pudding when cold. 

Black Raspberry PudtUng. — Fill a dish with soft, white 
bread, broken into inch pieces. Stew one quart of black-capa, 
squeeze through cheese-cloth, sweeten to taste, heat again, and pour 
it hot over the bread, using as much as the bread will absorb. * Beat 
the whites of three eggs stiS, add three tablespoons sugar. File it 
lighUy on a buttered plate the same size as the pudding-dish, brown 
it slightly, and slip it oS on the pudding. Serve cold. 

Raspberry Charlotte. — Stew one pint of raspberries, sweeten 
to taste, mash well, and pour it boiling hot over soft, white bread. 
Have the bread cut in small, thin squares, arrange a layer in a bowl 
or mould, and pour on enough syrup to wet the bread, then another 
layer of bread and synip. When cold, turn out and serve with 



92 TBX riKSLESS COOK-BME. 

cieuD. Gainbih the dish with yrhole ripe berries, sprinkled with 
powdered sogar. 

I qnart of warm milk. 1 1 tablespoon of prepared tennet, 
Have the milk juat watm, pour it 1dI« a deep glass dish, stir In 
the lennet, and then place it in tlie ice-chest Serve with cream and 
powdered angar. 

B&iiana>4/ream Pnddlns. — Melt one cnp of sn^ar in one pint 
of hot milk. Mix two tablespoans com-statch wllb cold milk, stir 
It into the boiling milk, and cook fifteen minutes. Add two table- 
spoons of butter. Beat the wliltes of three eggs stiff, stir into Uie 
thickened milk and cook again for five mmntes. Turn into a deep 
dish to cool. When ready to serve, cover the cream vrith red 
bananas sliced. Mix a few grains of salt with half a cup of pow- 
dered sugar. Sprinkle this over tlie bananas. Serve with cream 
and }elly.eauoe, made of one fourib cup of apple or strawbeirj-jeliy, 
beaten into one cup of thick cream. 

Cochineal for Coloring Cake and Cream. 
i ounce cochineal. I f ounce salts of tartar. 

\ " aium. i pint boiling water. 

J ■' cream of tartar. | i ponnd sugar. 
To the llrst three ingredients add the boiling water, and put tn 
a granite stew^ian. Let it stand on the stove, without boiling, foT 
twenty-five minutes. Add the salts of tariai very gradually, stir- 
ring the time ; add the sugar, and, when dissolved, str^n and bottle 
iU It will keep some time, and is quite harmless. 

From Mn. LincoMi " Boston Ooob-Sook." 
Appletoa Cnstard. — Soak half a box of gelatine in half a cup 
of cold vrater. Put in the thin rind and juice o£ two lemons, an inch 
of stick cinnamon, and one cup of si^ar with tliree cupa of cold 
water, and simmer ten minutes. Add the soaked gelatine, and, 
when dissolved, strain it into a shallow dish. Make a boiled custard 
with one pint of hot milk, yolks of three eggs, a pinch of salt, and, 
three tablespoons o£ sugar. When the custard is cold, cut the jelly 
into squares, pile it ligbUy in a diah, and coveB with the custard. 
Beat the whites of the eggs stiff, add half a cup of powdered sugar, and 
divide Into two parts. Color one part pink with cochineal. Spread 
the pink over the custard, and cover with the white. Serve very cold. 



THE PEEBLE8S COOK-BOOK. 93 

Banana and Iiemon-JeUy Cream. 

}box gelatine. 1 1 cup sugai. 

cup cold water. 1 " of lemon- juice. 

1 pint boiling water. j 1 square inch Btick cinnamon. 

Soak tlie gelatine In tlte cold water. Shave tbe lemon-rind, using 
none of the white. St«ep It with the cinnamon in the boiling water 
ten minutes ; add the Boaked gelatine, sugar, and lemon-juice, and, 
when dissolved, strain into shallow dishes. When cold, cut it la 
dice or break it up with a fork, put it in a glass dish in layers witb 
sliced bananas. Pour a cold hoiled custard over them, and cover 
with a meringue. Brown the meringue on a plate, and slip it o3 
over the custard. 

Bananas In Jelly. — Make a mould of lemon-jelly. Cut 
bananas in slices, and line the botUim and sides of a mould. Four 
the jelly in slowly, that it may not float the fruit Keep in ice-water 
until hard. If you have no mould, use a small, Tound, glass dish. 
Put the sliced bananas on the bottom, then turn in a little jelly; 
when hard, pat a row round the sides with spaces between, and till 
the centre with bananas, add more jelly, enough to cover. Reserve 
a cupful of jelly, and, when ready to serve, break this up lightly, and 
scatter it over the top. 

Aurora Cream. 



J- boi gelatine. 
I- cup cold water. 
1 " boiling watfir. 



Yolks of 3 eggs. 
3 tablespoons sugar. 
i saltspooD salt 
1 pint hot milk. 
i teaspoon vanilla. 



i " lemon-juice. 

Whites of 3 eggs. 

1 cup candied cherries. 

Cochineal to color. 
Soak the gelatine in the cold water, dissolve In the boiling water, 
add sugar and lemon-juice. Strain, and when it begins to thicken, 
but before it is stiff, beat into it the well-beaten whites of the eggs. 
Add cochineal enough to color it a bright pink, put in a spoonful 
at a time, until you have the desired shade. When nearly stifi, add 
the cherries, cut in halves. Beat until stiS enough to keep in shape. 
Mould it if you prefer, or pile it lightly in a fancy dish. Make the 
gance th« a)uu« as a boiled custard. Serv« ifvery cold. 



94 THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 

Ntune It. — Make double the rule for lemon-jelly, and taaiden it 
in shallow dishes. Make tbe rule for Aurora Cream, and, when 
ready to serve, break up the jelly with a fork, and put a tliick layer 
round the bottom and Bides of a glass dish, fill the centre as yoa 
go on with the Aurora Cream, and sprinkle the jelly over the lop. 
Serve It with a soft custard sauce or with rich, sweet cream. This 
is an easy way for those who have no moulds, or dare not attempt 
moulding the cream In the jelly. 

Verona Cream. — Soak half aboxof Cox's gelatine in one cup 
of sherry wine, add the juice of one large lemon, and one cup of 
sugar, heat until the sugar and gelatine are dissolved. Strain it 
into one pint of cream, mix well, and mould it in small fancy moulds, 
or cups set in cold water. 

To Whip Cream. — Place a bowl half filled with cream in a 
pan of broken ice. When very cold, put the chum into the cream, 
hold the cylinder Srmly, and keep tbe cover in place vrith the left 
hand. Tip the chum slightly, that the cream may flow out at the 
bottom. Work the dasher with a light, short stroke up, and a hard, 
pushing stroke down. When the froth appears, etir it down once 
or twice, as the first bubbles are too large ; and when the bowl is 
full of froth, skim it o3 into a granite pan placed on ice. Take oB 
the froth only, and do not take It oS below the holes in the cylin- 
der, as it whips better when they are covered. For Uiis reason 
never whip a pint of cream in a three-quart bowl, and do not try 
to whip it all, as usually a little is left in the bowl which is too 
thin to whip. One pint of cream should treble in whipping. If 
for garnish, drain the whipped cream on a hair sieve placed over 
a pan, and keep it on ice till stiff enough to keep its shape. 
Creams that are to be moulded are made stifier by the addition of 
gelatine. 

Plain Bavarian Cream, 
i box gelatine. I } cup sugar. 

i cup cold water. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

1 pint cream. { 

Soak tbe gelatine in cold water till soft. Chill and whip the 
cream tiU yon have three pints of the whip. Boil the remainder of 
the cream (or if it he all whipped, use a cup of milk) with the 
mgai; and when boiling add the soaked gelatine. Stir till dissolved. 



THE PEEELESS COOK-BOOK. 95 

Strain into a granite pan, add the vanilla or lemon, trad two table- 
epoons of wine, if you wisli ; or flavor with two tablespoons of melted 
chocolate, or one quarter of a cup of strong coffee. Place the pan 
in ice-water, stir occasionally, and, when the mixture is thorouglUy 
cold and beginning to thicken, stir in lightly the whipped cream. 
When nearly stiff enough to drop, pour into the moulds, which 
have first been wet In cold water. 

From Un. Lincobi'i " Boilon Cooh-Bool." 

Strawberrr Ice-Cream. — Sprinkle two cnps of sugar over 
two qnarts of strawberries. Mash them, and let them stand half 
an hour, or cntil the sugar is disaolved ; and meanwhile prepare the 
ice, and pack the freezer. Turn the berries Into a large square of 
cheese-cloth, placed over a bowl, and squeeze as long as any juice 
or pulp will come. Then empty the pulp and seeds left in the cloth 
into a pan, and pour on gradually about a pint of milk ; mji; it well 
with the pulp, until the pulp is aeparat,ed from the seeds. Squeeze 
again until perfectly dry. There should be nothing left in tlie clotb 
save a ball of seeds. Add to the juice as much cream as you nu^ 
have, from one cup to three pints, and sugar to make it very sweeL 
freeze aa usuaL Aftfir tasting this, you will never want any other 
strawberry icwiream. 

Vanilla Ice-Cream. 
I quart milk. [ 3 egga (whites). 

1 cup sugar. 1 pint ct«am. 

2 tablespoons floor. 2 tablespoons vanillik 
1 saltspoon salt. | 

BoH the milk. Mix the sngar, flour, and salt, add the boIUi^ 
milk, and cook twenty minutes in a double boiler. Stir as it 
thickens, and until it la siDOOth. Beat the whites to a foam, but 
not stiff, and stir the hot mixttire into them. When cool, add the 
cream, using more if you have it, and sugar to taste. Strtun, and 
add the flavoring. 

HolUpIn Cream. — Make the rule for vanilla ice-cream, and, 
when frozen, mould it as usual. When ready to serve, cut several 
vanilla cigaietle-wafera inta two-inch pieces, and stick them Into 
the orevn. 



96 THE FEESLEBS COOK-BOOK. 

HACAWXm, AuiofTO, WiLKOT, CocoiscT, or Bbowk-Bbbad Icb- 
Cuui, m&jr be made b; adding either of the above ingredients to 
any receipt lor icecream. Cromble the macaroonB and cocoanut- 
cakee, and brown them alightlj ; dry, crumble, and sift the brown 
bread, and chop die auto fine. Uae one pint of either to three pints 
of Icfrcream. 

Strawberries en Dignlaer. — Make a vanilla Ice-cieam and 
let it become quite bard. Before serving, line small half-pint bovrla 
or monldB with tike cream. Fill Uie centre with atrawberriee, pack- 
ing them in closely nearly to the top, and fill the apace with cream. 
Cover with the cream. Let them stand in a miztoie of ice and salt 
for tea or twenty udnntes, or nntJl chilled, bnt not icy. Then turn 
out Mt fancy diahes, and serve at once. 

Frozen Padding. 
1 qnart cream. | Yolks of 8 eggs. 

1 pint milk. 2 tablespoons gelatine soaked in 

1^ cups sugar. | } cup milk. 

Make this into a custard, cook it in a double boiler, and when 
done dissolve the gelatine in the boiling custard. Strain, and add 
two tablespoons of wine, and two of the ayrap of brandied peaches. 
Cool and freeze, and, when hard, pack it in a mould with alternate 
layers of candled apricots, brandied peaches, cherries, and pine- 

Rlz 01ac6. 

1 cup rioa I Yolks of 4 eggs. 

1 quart milk. 1 pint cream. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon vaniUa. 

1 stutspoou salt. 1 6 peaches. 

Cook the rice In boiling salted water twelve minutes. Drain, and 
put it in the doable boiler with the milk, sugar, and salt Cook till 
soft, then mb tluough a sieve. Scald the cream, and mix with it 
the beaten yolks of the eggs. Cook about two minutes, or until the 
e^s aro scalding hot, tiien stir tiiis into the rice. Add more sugar 
if needed, and flavor to taste. Freeze, and pack firmly in the 
freezer or a round mould. Turn out, and ornament the top with 
brandied peaches, and pour the clear peach-syrup round the base. 

Cali Parfalt.— Mix one pint of cream, one cup of sugar, and 
ialt a cup of snong, deaf ooflae. Snnoiuid the bowl with broken 



THE PEEBLESS OOOK-BOOK. 97 

ice, and, when chilled, mMp the inixtDie, and take the fioth oB as 
it rieee and put it into a freezer or mould. Pack the mould in ice 
and salt, and let it Ht^jid two hours without stirring. 

Frozen IHacMotne. 

1 pint of canned pears. 1 1 pint canned cherries. 

1 " " preserved plums. 1 1 " " pineapple. 

Dndn oft all the a jrup from the fniJt ; mix, and, U not sweet 
enough, add more sugar. Mash the pears and plums till smooth, 
mix with the syrup, and freeze until hard, liemove the stones from 
the cherries, if not already stoned, and, when the fruit-pulp is frozen, 
stir in cherries and dnUned pineapple, and pack it in the freezer ot 
mould. Let it stand one hour without stirring. 
Frozen Castard. 

I quart milk. 1 1 pint to 1 quart cream. 

6 or 8 eggs (yolks). Sugar to taate. 

1 cup sugar. | ^Flavoring. 

Afake a boiled custard with the milk, sugar, and the yolks of Qie 
eggs. Cook it slightly till smooth, but not curdled. Stram, and 
when cool add the cream, sugar to make it quite sweet, and any 
flavoring desired. The cusUrd, when made with cream instead of 
milk, makes tho richest kind of ice-cream. If cream caimot be ob- 
tained, beat the whites of the e^s till foamy, and add them just 
before freezing. No matter how many eggs are used, a little cream, 
if not more than half a cupful, is a decided imptovement to all 
Ice-creams. It Is better to make sherbet, or fruit and water ices, 
than an interior quality of ice-cream with milk. Icecreams are 
richer and mould better when made with gelatine ; but care must 
be taken to flavor highly, to disguise the taste of the gelatine. Use 
a quarter of a hoi of Nelson's gelatine for two quarts of custaid. 
Soak In half a cap of cold milk, and dissolve in the boiling custard 
just as it is taken from the fire. If by any accident the custard 
should cardie In cooking, it will be smootti when frozen. 

From Mrt. Liaeoln'i " Boiton Cooh-BooW 

Pmlt Bombe OlacA. — Make a quart of rich lee-cream and flavor 

with vanilla or lemon. When frozen hard, line the bottom and sides 

of the freezer with the cream. Reserve one-foUrth of it for a cover. 

mi the centre with » mixture of candi«d fruit, all ont flue. Um 



9S THE PEEKLESB COOK-BOOK, 

cheiries, ^iiicots, plimia, and pincApple- Pack the froit In closely. 
Cover with the reserved CTeam.tiDd let the freezer lemainia ice and 
ialt half on hour. Dip quickly into worm vater and torn ont care- 
fully. 

Fmlt Cream. 
3 DiAngea. I i can aprlcots- 

3 banansH. 1 pint cream. 

1 pint stranbeniBH. | Sugar to taate- 

Take the juice and pulp of Oie orangee, nush tlie banatiaB, berries 
and apricots, and rub through a balr or wire sieve. Add tbe cream 
Knd sugar to make it quite sweeL Then freeze aa usuaL 
Currant Bberbet. 
1 pint currant-juice. 1 1 pint sugar, 

1 " water. 1 2 eggs (whites). 

BoQ Ike juice, water, and sogar, skim thoroughly, and pour It 
frtiile hot Into the e^s beaten till foamy. Beat it well, and, when 
cool, freeze. 

Grape Sherbet. — Lay a Hqaare of cheese-cloth over a bowl, 
put in a, pound of ripe Concord grapes. Mash very tkoroughly with 
a wooden maaher. Squeeze out all the juice, add an equal amount 
of cold water, the juice of one lemon, and sugar to make it very 
sweet. Freeze as usual. 

Freucli Cream-Candy. — Half a cup of cream and two cupe 
of powdered sugar, boiled five minutes in a granite kettle, counting 
from the time it boils all over. Place the kettle in cold water, and 
beat It until stiB enough to hold candied fruit Add quarter of 
a ponnd of candied fruit, cut fine, and pour the cream Into a bread- 
pan, buttered or lined with parafBne paper. The second layer is 
the same, using In place of the fruit one teaspoon of vanilla, and 
one small square of chocolate melted. The tiiird layer is colored 
pink with cochineal and flavored with chopped ^monds. The 
fourth layer Is like the frsL 

Chocolate Cream.— Put the white of one egg in a small glass, 
then measure an equal quantity of cold water, add a teaspoon of 
vanilla, and beat Uioroughly. Beat in gradually enough confec- 
tioner's sugar to make a stiff dough. Roll small pieces of the 
mixture into the shape of tumbles i put tbemou a buttered paa Is 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 99 

a, cool place to barden. Melt two equares of chocolate in a bowl 
over the t«a-kettle. When the cream-balls are hard, dip them in 
the melted chocolate. Use two Bt«el forks, let them drain on the 
forks, tlieii put them on the tins again till dry. 

Creamed Walnuta. — The white of one egg, and an equal 
amount of cold wat«r, one teaspoon of lemon or vanilla. Beat until 
tboionghly mixed, then beat in confectioner'a sugar, sifted, until 
the dough is etlEF enough k> mould. Break off pieces the size of 
a nutmeg, roll them till smootli and round. Press the halved 
walnut-meats on each side, letting the cream show slightly between 
the meats. One egg will require about a pound and a quarter of 

Gelatine Frosting. — One teaspoon gelatine soaked in one table- 
spoon 1^ cold water, Uien dissolved in two tablespoons of boiling 
water. Stir in one cup of powdered sugar. Flavor with lemon. 

Plain Frosting. — Beat the whites of one egg on a platter with 
e. fork or perforated wooden spoon until foamy, but not atlfl. Add 
the flavoring, and about half a cup of sifted powdered sugar. Beat 
the sugar in gradually, and use enough to make it atift It should 
leave a distinct mark when cut with a knife. 

Water-Icing. — Stir one tablespoon of boiling water Into one 
cup of powdered sugar, add one tablespoon of lemon or orange 
juice or rosewater. Spread it over the cake while warm. 

Soft FroBtlns. 

1 cup granulated sugar. { i cup mUk. 

Set it over the flre and stjr until it boils, then let It boil five min. 
ntea without stirtlng. Place the pan in ice-water and beat rapidly 
untjl white and light. As it stiSens add flavoring te taste, and, be- 
fore it is very stiff, pouTit on the cake. Smooth with a knife. 

Sheet Gingerbread. 
1 cup cream. j I teaspoon Boda- 

1 cup molasses. j 1 " ginger. 

1 cup sugar. J 1 " lemon- 

Mix with flour to roll out half an inch thick. Spread it on « 
boking-glteet Mark in strips, and bake quickly. 



100 THE PEKELESS COOK-BOOK. 

1 cnp sugu. 1 3 tablespoons milk. 

1 egg. 1 teaspoon cream tartar. 

3 tablespoons melted biitt«r. Nutmeg. 

1 eTen teaspoon soda. | 

Mix vith flour to roll out tliiii, apriuMe powdered sugar over, and 
cnt In long thin strips. Bake quickly, 

Olncer Wafers. 

}cup butter. 1 1 saltspoon soda, 

cup sugar. i cup milk. 

2 t«aHpoanB ginger. 1 1 pint Sour. 

Spread it very thiu on a buttered Un, and bake In a modeials 
oren. Cut while hot into squares. 

Nat Wafers. 
} cnp butter. 1 1 cup flour. 

1 cup sugar. 1 cap nut-meata. 

Use walnuts or cream-nutB, or grated cocoanut. Drop on buttered 
(ins, and bake quickly. 

Cookies. 

3 cnps flour. 1 1 nutmeg grated. 
1 teaspoon baking-powder. i cup butter. 

1 cup sugar. [ 3 eggs. 

Mix flour, baking-powder. Bugar, nnd nutmeg; rub In the butter, 
add the eggs whole and beat welL Add a little milk if needed to 
unite the mixture. Boll out, cut, and bake quickly. 
Spiced Soaps. 
1 pint floor. 1 1 cup molasses. 

1 teaspoon cinnamon. i cup brown sugar. 

1 '* ginger. 1 teaspoon soda. 

) " nutmeg. | i cup butter. 

Heat the molaasee and sugar till the sugar la melted. Dissolve 
the soda in a little warm water, stir it quickly into the hot molasses, 
add the butter and flour mixed with the spices. Add enough mote 
flour to roll very thin. Cut out and bake in a quick oven. 



i cup butter. 

} cup sugar. 

S tftblespoons wnr dGam. 



THE riEKLEBS C00K-II60IC. 101 

Mix TEtther soft, roll out about one-third of an incb thick. Cut 
with a fancy flated oatter. Brush over with 1>eatea egg. Bake In 
a qttlok oven. When cool, place a candied cherrjr in the centra of 
each. 

Caraway Cookies. 
i cnp butter. 1 1 cup cream. 

1 " sugar. i teaspoon soda. 

1 egg. Flour to roll out. 

2 tsAlespoons caraway seeds. | 

Ulz rather soft Roll thick, cut out, sift eogar over and bake 
quickly. 

Sugar Gingerbread. 
) cup butter, 1 1 cup milk. 

2 cups sugar. 3 cups floor. 

1 tablespoon ginger. 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 
2^98- I 

Spread it ou shallow pans, well buttered, and when baked cut It 
into TBOtangnlar pieces. 

Hoist Gingerbread. 

2 cups flour. 1 1 tablespoon lard. 

1 teaspoon salt. Hot water. 

2 teaspoons ginger. 1 teaspoon soda, 



Mix the floor, salt, and ginger, and stir is the molasses. Put th« 
iard hi a cup and fill it with boiling water. When the lard is di»- 
solved, put it into the mixture and add the soda. 

Molasses Cake. 
2 cups molasses. 2 teaspoons cinnamon. 

1 cup brown sugar. 1 teaspoon cloves. 

1 " lard. i nutmeg grated. 

2 cups hot water, 1 heaping teaspoon 8od& 
4 " flour. l^Sg. 

\1 cnp r^jne. 
Seed and cliop the ndslns, i/Hi. the spices, raisins, and soda with 
the flour. Heap the measnra of floor slightly. Mix the molasseB, 
sugar, lard, and water, stir in the flour, add the beaten egg last 
Bake In a shallow dripping-pan, and sprinkle with powdered suga> 
JoBt befora patting it in the oveo. 



102 THE PEEKL1S8 COOK-BOOK. 

WIrth Prnlt>Cake. 

1 cnp bulter. - 2 eggs. 

2 cups aiigar. 4 cupe floor. 

1 cup milK. 1 teaspoon soda. 

1 " molaasea. H cup ndalus. 

2 teaapcxms mixed splc«B. 

Mix In tlie order given ; stone and quarter the r^tns. Balce In 
a deep pan. A mixture of ralsliui, citron, and currants may be 

Plain Prnlt>Cafce. 



legg. 

1 cup sour milk. 

2} cups flour. 1 " mace. 

Cbeap Ralsin-Cake, 
) cup butter. 1 1 teaspoon soda. 

1) cnp sugar. i " cinnamon. 

1 cup eoui milk. | f " nutmeg. 

Three cnpa flour mixed with one and one-balf cup r^dna stoned, 
chopped, and floured with part of the measure of flour. 



Plnm Cakes. 

1 cup chopped raisins. 



1 e«r. 1 teaspoon cinmunon. 

1 tableBpoou sour milk. } " nutmeg. 
i teaspoon soda. Flour to mix. 

Tlour the fruit, add the spices, then mix in the order g^ven. Mix 
soft, roll thick, cut out and bake quickly. 

Orange Cake. 

}cnp butter. | 2 cups flotir. 

" sugar, j teaspoon soda. 

2 eggs. 1 " cream tartat- 
i cup milk. I Kind of one orange. 

Mix in the order giren. Bake in two pans. Put the grated rind 
of the orange in the cake. Stjr powdered sugar Into the orange- 
juice nntit qnite thick, and spread it between the cakea when ccol. 



THE PEBRLESS COOK-BOOK. 105 

SomvCream Cmke. 

8 eggs. 1 1 scant teaspoon soda. 

2 cups Bogai. 1 cup rich sonr cream. 

! teaspoon Halt. 3 cupa flour. 

" lemon. | 

3ea,t the yolks nntil tight and tbick ; add tlie sugar, the whites 
beaten etiB, the salt, and lemon- Dissolve the soda In Uie eieam. 
add the flour, and bake in a shaJlow pan. 

Gold Cake. Silver Cake. 



i cap butter. 

1 " go (tar. 

1 '• milk. 

1 teaipooD lemon. 

Seggt (whitei). 

H cup flour. 

1 leupoon baking-powder. 



i cup butter. 

■* eggs (yolks). 
1 Hliole fgg. 
i cup milk. 

1 teaspoon lemon. 

2 cups flour. 
1 tsaspoon baking.powder. 

Hiz in tbe order given and bake in two shallow pans. 
Chocolate Cake. 



Bake, and Irost with chocotats icing. 

Chocolate Icing. 

'Whites of two eggs beaten with sugar enough to stiffen. Three 
tablespoons of melted chocolate and one teaspoon vaniila 



Corn-starch Cake. 



, flour. 

2 tablespoons corn-atarch. 
1 teaspoon baking-powder. 
Whitea of 2 cgga. 



i cup butter, scant 

1 " sugar. 

2 e^s (yolks). 
1 teaspoon extract almond. 
} cup sweet milk. 

Mix In the order giyen, mix corn-starch and baking-powder witii 
the flour. Bake in a shallow pan. 

Maxwell Cake. 
1 cup butter. 1 1 cup milk. 

3 cups powdered sugar. 2 teaspoons baldng-powder. 
6 egffi. 1 cups flour. 



104 THE PEEKLE8S COOE-BOOK. 

Cream the batter, add the sugar, yolks of tlie eggs, grated rind 
and jnice of the lemoa, milk, flour mixed with the baking-powder, 
and the wbitea of the eggs last. 

Banana Cake. — Bake any tight cake in shallow pana as for 

cream or jelly-cake. When ready to serve (not before), cover one 
cake with Eliced bananas, sprinkle with powdered sugar and orange- 
juice. Fnt on the other cake and cover in the same inaimeT. 

Cream Cofce. 
2 egga. I i teaspoon lemon extract. 

i cnp sugar. { cup flour. 

2 tablespoons cold water. 1 1 teaspoon baking-powder. 
Bske in two round, shallow cake-pans. Fill with one cup thick 
cream, sweetened and flavored to taste, and whipped stiff with 
a Dover egg-beater. 



( cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 

}. cup milk. 

2i cups pastry flour. 

^ teaspoon soda. 

!{ " cream of tartar. 

Whites 8 eggs. 

* 



TOttl'Frilttl Cream Coke. 

cup figs chopped. 
__!_!__ chopped. 






walnut-meats chopped. 
White 1 egg. 



almond. 

Mix the cake in the order given ; divide btia three parts, and 
flavor each differently. Bake in three long, shallow pans. For the 
filling, simmer the sugar and water until it threads. Pour it into 
the white of the egg (beaten till foamy), beat well, and stir in 
Put this between the layers, then 



f cup butter. 

2 cupB sugar. 
4 eggs (yolks). 

1 cup milk. 

3 cupB flour. 

2 teaspoons baking-powder. 
i " mace. 



Fig Cake. 

FiLLIVO. 

Whites of 4 eggs. 
i cup flne sugar. 
i pound figs chopped & 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 105 

Mix In the order giveii, bake In fonr shallow tins, and Biweadwith 

the fig mixtare. 

Snow-Flake Cake. 
i cnp butter. 1 1) cnp flonr. 

H •• sugar. 1 teaspoon baking-powder. 

1 " mlllt. \i " roaewater. 

S eggs (whites). 1 1 grated cocoanut. ' 

Bake hi jelly-cake Una. FrMt each cake, and sprinkle the cocoa- 
nut between each layer, and over the top and sides. 

C C Cftke. 
i cup butter. I ) cup milk. 

1 cap sugar. 2 cups flour. 

2 e^s. 1 2 teaspoons baking-powder. 
Bake in layers, and fill with chocolate and cocoanat filling. Melt 

one square of chocolate with two tablespoons of sngar and a little 
water. Stir over the fire tiU thick and smooth. Add one cup of 
giated cocoanut ; spread it between the cakes, 

Raisin-Layer Cuke. 
i cnp bntter. I 3 cups flour mixed with 

2 caps Biigar. 2} teaspoons baking-powder. 

Yolks ol 4 eggs. 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

1 cnp milk. | 

Bake in four jelly -cake tins ; fill with raisin cream, made of whites 
of four eggs beaten well, half cnp fine sugar, half ponnd best raisins 
chopped fine, half cap chopped currante. 

Pistacblo Cream Cake. 
} cup butter. 1 21 caps flour. 

2 " sugai, scant. "— ' 

1 '■ roUk. 

Whites of 3 eggs. | 

Cream the bntter, add the sugar, milk, eggs beaten till foamy, 
almond and flour mixed with the baking-powder. Bake In shallow 
pans, and fill with one cup rich cream, half cup powdered sugar, 
half cup pistacbio-nats, half cup almonds. Whip the cream stiff 
with s Dover beater; add the sugar, and the nuts chopped and 
poooded&iB. 



106 THE PEERLESS COOE-BOOE. 

SpoDge Cake. 

6 egga. 1 1 cup flour. 

f pound powdered sugar. | i lemon. 
BreaJt the e^s into a deep bowl, add the sugar and beat together 
half an honr. Use a perforated wooden spoon, beat up and over 
the whole width of the bowl. Add the grated rind and juice and 
the flour. Do not beat after the Sour is well mixed. Turn into 
battered pans ; sprinkle powdered sugar over the top, and bake 
about an hour, — moderat«l; at first, then quicken the fire. 

Pot-Pourrl. — Put a pint of alcohol or white preserving-brandy 
Into a la^ stone jar that has a tightlj-fitting cover: then, as 
the Bunuuer fruits come on, put them Into the alcohol with an 
equal amount of sugar ; thus a cup of sugar and a cup of fruit. 
StJr every day with a clean wooden spoon. Use Btrawberries, 
phieapples, raspberries, currants, blackberries, apricots, cherries, 
peaches, plams, and grapes. Plums and peaches should be peeled. 
Stoned, and cut fine. Cherries should be stoned, and grapes should 
be seeded. The alcohol is enough for the jarful of fruit, and wUl 
eook and keep the fruit perfectly. About a month after putting In 
the laet fruit, it will be ready to use. 

Baspberry Shrub.— To twelve pounds fruit add five ounces 

tartatic acid dissolved in two quarts of cold water. Pour the 
water over the fruit, taking care not to bruise the berries, and let 
the fruit stand in the water forty-eight hours. Then dr^n through 
a cloth or fine sieve. To one pint of juice add one pound of sugar. 
Stir until dissolved, and let it stand a few days. Bottle, placing the 
codes In lightly. If it ferments a little, leave the corks out a few 
days. The whole process is cold. 

Stewed Sweet Apples. — Wipe and remove the cores from 
sweet apples. Put in a granite kettle or pan enough apples to cover 
the bottom ; sprinkle sugar over them, add just water enough to 
cover. Cover closely, and let them cook slowly until tender. When 
a fork will pierce them easily, remove them, and let the syrup boil 
down till quite tliick, then pour it over the apples. Serv« cold with 
oream. 



THE PEEELE8S COOK-BOOK. 



IBarberrlea. 

1 2 qnarte white Bugar. 



Measure the barbeniea after picking over carefully, and the 
apples after paring and cutting iuto quarters, Coulc the barberriea 
fifteen minutea in the boiling sugiir and molasses. Skim thent out, 
and eook the apples in the syrup until tender, but not broken. The 
barberries ma; be mixed nith the apples after cooking, but many 
prefer to leave them, out, as the large seeds are indigestible. 

Spiced Grape. — Msah the grapes and cook until soft. Rub 
through a sieve. To one quart of pulp add one pint of brown sugar 
and one teaspoon each of ciunamoa and allspice, half a teaspoon of 
mace, and a saltepoou of cloves. Cook slowly one hour. 

Carrant-Jelly. — Pick over the currants and mash them in a 
poroelwn or granite kettle with a wooden potato-masher. Put 
them in a flannel bag to drain over night Do not squeeze them. 
Measure the juice and boil It five minutes, counting from the time 
it boils all over. Remove the scum as it forms. Have the same 
measure of granulated sugar (not the biue-white) in a bowl, and, 
when the juice has boiled five minutes, pour it into the sugar, or 
remove from the fire and stir the sugar into the juice if more con- 
venient. Stir quickly tiU the sugar Is dissolved, remove the troth, 
and pour at once into the glasses. Roll them in warm water or 
place a spoon in before filling. Pour in till ttoy will hold no more. 
Set them in the sun, and the next day cover with paper. Cut soft 
brown paper into rounds half an inch larger than the tumbler. 
Dip them into water and floor mixed to the consistency of thick 
milk. Drain, and spread them on the top, rub thero down smoothly, 
and when dry they will be air-tight. Label with the date and name 
of the jelly. Aft«r the juice has drained from the currants, squeeze 
Ibem and use the juice thus obtained in the same way. It wilt be 
less clear, but answers as well for cake or puddings. Sugar, when 
boiled with the juice, is changed to grape-sugar, which is less sweet 
than cane-sugar. This explains why jellies and rich preserves ofton 
have a strong aiid acid taste. Jelly made in this manner is clear 
as crystal, and has a delJcioaB flavoi. It may be eaten freely with- 



108 THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 

out cloying. It nill Dot ftlwsjs be firm enough to keep im shape, 
bat the improved flavor is more imporUmt. 

Grape-Jelly.— Select grapes Uutt are not quit* ripe. Remove 
, the Bt«ms, and, if the; are gritty, wash and drain them. Haslt them 
until they are all broken, then boil about ten minutes. Drain 
Uiron^ cheese-cloth and flannel, but do not equoeze ilT Ueasure 
tbe juice, and put it in a granite Icettle. l*ut the same measure of 
sugar into a bowl with a lip. Boil the juice ten minutes, remove 
the scum as fast as it forms, then pour the boiling juice into the 
sugar, stir quickly, remove the froth, and, as soon as the sugar ia 
ail dissolved, pour it into the glasses. It will thicken immediately. 

Preserred Pineapple— Remove the skin and all the eyes, 
take the pineapple in your left hand, and with a silver fork begin 
at the stem end of Uie fruit aiid fork out small bits. This will 
leave the core, which is juiceioBs and tasteless, in yonr lutnd. 
Weigh the pineapple after It is thus prepared, and sprinkle over 
it three quarters of a pound of sugar to one pound of pineapple. 
When a syrup is formed, cook the apple slowly in it until trans- 
parent, then remove the fruit and boil t^e syrup a little longer. 

ynxa Mt». LiJtcoln'i "Botbm Cooh-Book." 

Chipped Pears. — Take pears not quite ripe, pare and core, and 
cut them into long, thin strips. To eight pounds of the fruit pot 
eight pounds of sugar, the rind of four lemons cut into strips, the 
juice of the lemons, one-fourth poimd of race or green ginger, and 
half a pint of water. Boil until the fruit is transparent if held to 
the light. The ^nger must first be scraped thoioughly and cut 
fine, and the lemon-peel should be boiled in water ulitil tender, to 
remove the bitter taaie. Or you may use only thin shavings of the 

Baked Bananas. — Allow one tablespoon of sugar and one 
teaspoon of hot water for each banana. Peel the bananas, split 
them in halves. Put them in a shallow dish or platter. Melt one 
tablespoon of butter in the hot water, and pour it over the fruit. 
Mix a little salt and spice or lemon-juice witii the sngaf, sprinkle 
it over the top and bake about twenty minatea, or until brown. 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 109 

Dried Peacbes. — Pare the peaches, cnt them in halves. Allow 
half a pound of sugar to one pound of fruit. Put fruit and sugar 
in layers tn a granite kettle. Heat slowly until the sugar is di»- 
Bolved, then hoil until clear. Drain very dry. Spread the fruit on 
platters in liie sun and turn often tmtil quit« dry. Pack in layers 
with sugar in clean Bait-boxes. 



1 quart vinegar. 

2 tablespoons muatard.Beed. 2 onions. 

2 " ginger (powdered). 2 green peppers. 

2 " s^t. 15 green sour apples. 

2 cups brown sugar. 

Boil the vinegar, mustard, ginger, salt, and sugar. Stone and 
chop the raisins, remove the seeds from the peppers, and chop them 
with the onions. Put all witli the vinegar and simmer two hours. 
Then add the apples pared, cored, and quartered, and stew another 
hour, or till the apples are soft Put it into small bottles and seal 

Cbutney Sauce. 

24 ripe tomatoes. 1 4 tahles^toons salt. 

4 green peppers. 3 caps vinegar. 

4 onions. } pound raisins. 

4 tablespoons sngar. 1 1 ounce dried ginger. 

Scald and peel the tomatoes, cut the peppers and onions line, 
stone the ndsins, cut the ginger in shreds, then put all together and 
Ittoil three hours. Keep in wide-mouthed bottles. 

Tomato Catchup, 

Slice the tomatoes, boil until soft, then strain and 
one gallon of the tomatoes add 

« allspice. 



} pound salt 
i ounce cayenne. 
i " cloves. 
1 " celery-seed. 



■root 
r " garDo. 
. pint of^ vinegar. 

Use whole spices. Boil all tc^ether outil rcdncad to a thick pulp 

Strain it, and, when cool, bottle and cork tightly. 



THE PEEBLES8 COOK-BOOK, 



8pl€;ed Vinegar. 
2 teaspoons «M;h o( clove and 6 lemons. 



1 tablespoon mace and allspice. 

2 tablespoons mustard, Ball, and 
honeraiUsh. 

Slice the lemons and remove the seeds. Pat the lemons In a jar, 
sprinkle each layer with the mixed spices, and pour on the boiling 
vinegar. Let it stand where It will keep warm. Hie next day 
frtr^n it, and put the vinegar In closely^orked bottles. 

ChtlU Sanoe. 

4 qiiartB ripe tomatoes peeled. 1 1 tablespoon peppercorns. 
4 peppers chopped fine. 2 tableepoons salt. 

1 tabfespoon whole cloves. 2 cups brown sugar. 

1 " " allspice. 1 1 quart vinegar. 

Put spices in a lace bag Cook slowly three hours. 

Pickled Barberries. — Soak nice laigebunchesof barberries in 

salt and water for a, few hoam. Remove from the water, and pour 
scalding vinegar over them, Spice tlie vinegar if jou prefer. Tbese 
are ornamental for ealad.gam]sbing. They may be kept for some 
time in the brine, and then freshened when nsed. 

Frosted Cnmuits.— Choose nice large bunches of cherry. 
currants. Beat an ^, a^d a tablespoon of water, dip the corrants 
in this, and drain until nearly dry. Then roll them several times 
in powdered sugar. Dry on white paper. They are pretty used as 
a garnish for blancmange or creams. 

Can? Powrder. 

8 ounces coriandereeed. I 1 ounce ginger. 

8 " turmeric. i " allspice and cardamom. 

■ B each black pepper and J " cumin-seed. 



Put them in a cool oven over nigbL In the morning, ponnd in 
a mortar, mix well, sift, and keep in clo6sly.covered boAles. 

Heat Jalce. — Cut one pound of raw, lean beef, free from fat, into 
slices one-thiid of an inch thick. Spread the slices close together 
on a long narrow strip of clean cheese-cloth, sprinkle witii Sue salt, 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. IH 

toll np tightly, tie, and place It In & me&t-preBs or between heavy 
weights. There will be ahout half a cup of clear juice. 

Battled Beef Bssenoe. — Put two poonds of round steak, cat 
in amall pieces, into a jar without water. Place the jar, covered 
closely, on a trivet in a hettle of cold water. Heat gradually, and 
keep it not quite at the boiling-point for two houre, or till the meat 
is white. Strain, pressing the meat to obtain all the juice ; seaaon 
with salt. Or place the jat in a moderate oven for tliree houra. 
The liquid thus obtained contains all the nutritive parts of the 
meat It may be kept in the refrigerator, and a small portion 
heated (not boiled), as wanted. Or it may be made Into beef-t«a 
by diluUng with boiling -water. Beef-essence given Ice-cdd is 
sometimes more agreeable to a fever patient 

Economical Beef-Tea.— Cut one pound of juicy rump«teak 
into small pieces, and add one cup of cold water. Let it stand in 
a covered bowl several hoars. When ready to serve, squeeze the 
meat and put it into another bowl. Strain the juice already ob- 
tained, add salt to taste, and heat it just enough to be palatable, but 
not enough to curdle it. Serve at once while hot If it be healed 
over the fli«, stir constantly, and take it oB the moment it looks 
thick and is hot ; or heat it carefully over hot water. Add another 
cup of cold water to the scraps of meat, and soak again. Often 
the third cup of tea may be obtuned from the same meat This is 
excellent for hard-working people to take in times of great exhaus- 
tion, before a hearty meal. It is one of the best and most easily 
prepared forms of soup or meat tea. 

ftwn Mrt. Uncoln't " Bortow Cook-Book." 

A Nomishing Omelet — Dissolve a saltspoon of beef-eztract 

in half a cup of hot water, and stir into it half a cup of the crusts 
of whole-wheat bread rolled fine. Let them soak over the teakettle 
while you beat the yolks and whites of two e^e. Stir the soaked 
crumbs into the yolks, add a dash of salt and pepper, then stJr the 
whites in lightly. Cook in a hot, buttered omeletrpan. Fold, and 
Invert on a hot dish. Garnish with parsley. 



112 THK PEEELESS COOK-BOOK. 

mnih. Stir constantly and cook fifteen mimites. Turn into a bowl ; 
■BKWth the top and pour over it a little cold wster to keep it from 
becoming hard. When nnled, take out two taUespoons of tba 
moah and wet it Emooth with cold milk ; then add hot milk or cream 
to make it the desind coatitteacf. A convenient way where only 
a amall quantity la Teqnircd, and that quickly and often. 

Dcmf and Parina OrveL — DiSBOlve half a teaspoon of beef 
exbact in two tahleqpoonB of water, and stir it into one cup of farina 
grael prepAred aa aboTe. Beef extract, when taken clear or as beef- 
tea, !■ often unpalatable to luvalida ; bot, served in thia form, it may 
be acceptable. The Juice from hbt broiled steak, or the plalter 
giavy from roast bee^ may be served with the farina. 

OlBten Hnsh. — Boil one {nnt of milk. First cover the bottom 
of the BBUce-pan or spider vrith cold water to prevent the milk from 
bnmlng. When boiling, altt in slowly enough gluten to make a 
thick mosli. When stifl enough, scrape It into the donble boiler, 
add half a teaspoon of salt, and cook half an hour over boiling 
water. Serve with cream. 

Newbem Hominy. — Put one cup of fine hominy En the doable 
boiler with oite cup of cold water. Let it lemaiu on the back of the 
stove imtU the water is absorbed. Then add one pint of milk and 
half a teaspoon of salt, and Ixd half an hoar. Stir in one table- 
spoon at batter and toro ont on a hot platter. Serve irith poached 
^gs. 

Chicken Broth.— Cut np a fowl and remove all the fat and 
skin, as these leave a strong flavor in the broth. It a very delicate 
flavor be desired, put the meat on to hoil in cold water ; boil five 
minntes, poor oO the water and add fresh cold water; then simmer 
until the meat Is In shreds. Take out the breast as soon as It ia 
tender. Strain the broth, and, when cool, remove every particle of 
fat. Heat again, and, when boiling, thicken with whole-wheat flour 
wet in cold water, one tablespoon flour to each pint of broth. Season 
delicately with celery, salt, and white pepper. When a richer broth 
can be taken, add half a cup of sweet cieam and the breast of the 
ohioken cut in small dice. 



THE PEEELK8S COOK-BOOK. 118 

Mutton Broth.— Four pounds of the forequarter of mutton. 
BemoTe all the fat and pink Bkin. Cover with cold water, remove 
the scum as it rises, and, when it has boiled five minutes, pour ofl 
the water and add fresh cold water. This will remove (he strong 
mutton flavor, which is often unpalatable to an invalid. When only 
a slight degree of nourishment Is deeired, an agreeable flavor is of 
more importance than economy of material. , Simmer until the 
meat is in shreds. Strain, and when cool remove the fat Heat 
again, and to every pint of broth add two tablespoons of rice. 
Cook the rice ten minutes in just water enough to keep it from 
burning, then add it to the broth and sunmer half an hour. Season 
Witt salt and pepper. Rub a pinch of whole aummer-saTory through 
a fine strainer into the broth. Uso the whole herb in preference to 
the ground, as the flavor Is flnar. 

Nonrlshing Dteh.— Pour three tablespoons of cream over a 
slice of fine granulated wheal bread ; salt it slightly. 

Gnrrant Ice.— Take a lai^ needle. No. 4, and press itwith a . 
thimHe into a piece of ice, splitting it into bits about the size of 
beans. Mix half a glass of broken ice with a tablespoon of currant 
or add jelly. It makes a refreshing potion for a fever patient. 



TWENTY LESSONS IN COOKERY. 

Compiled from the Boston School Kitchen Text-Book, by Mrs. 

D. A. Lincoln, author of " The Boston Cook Book." Cards 

in envelope. Price, 40 cents per set. 

" The receipts 5n these lessons are the same as those in the ' Tent-book,' 
and have been prepared in answer to a special demand for those who wLsh the 
sobstance of the book in a cheaper form, and to save the time formerly taken in 
copying receipts. 

" These cards fumisli an attractite, convenient, and durable form of pre- 
serving the lesson for each day. Each lesson is printed on a separate card, 
nine of the twenty being on double cards. One four-page card contains direc- 
tions for all kinds of kitchen work, — the care of a fire, cleaning dishes, sweep- 
ing and dusting, and rules for the table. 

"The twenty cooking-lessons include pbin i^reclions for about one 
hundred and fifty dishes, illustrating all the fundamental principles of cookery, 
a knowledge of which will enable any school-giil to do all the cooking for her 



THE PBKRLE88 OOOE-BOOK. 



THE CHAFING-DISH 



In nning the chttfing-dish, hare all nteneiU aod materials read]', 
as mncli of the meaBuring and preliminarj vork done beforehand 
as 1b pusiible, for it is often trying to one's patience to wait for 
these minor operations, and it is a waate of alcohol to do this after 
the lamp iB lighted. Have the lamp filled as full a^ it will hold, 
it jou are to uee it far any long cooking. Stand the dish on a 
metal traj as a protection from fire, in case any of the alcohol rnns 
orer and ignites. Hare a traj for Boiled dishes at one hand and 
another for the accompaniments at the left, and a aland for the bot 

Ean. Batter should he measured, and cut into pnts, or rolled into 
alls of one-ounce weight. A wire frame on which to stand a 
small sancepan or omelet-pan ie conienient. It Bhould be broad 
enough to fit over the top of the frame, and by il« uee many extra 
things, like milk or water, may be heated and will save wiping 
oat the regular chaflng-pan. The blazer is the pan directly over 
the fire, and is used for boiling water and alao for all quick cooking, 

inat aa one would uae a frying-^an over the range ; the chafinj^-pan 
a placed over the hot water in the blazer, for all diahes which 
require gentle cooking. 

Chaflng-diBhee are useful in small familiea, or for light faouse- 
fceeping, or summer cooking, for simple suppers or luncheons 
when the maid ia out, or the diahes must needs be served very hot, 
for informal hospitality, for impromptu meala, and in many ways 
suggested by individual need. But do not carry their uee to 
the extreme which the present fad tempts one to follow, for it is 
often easier to prepare these diahes on a gas range. 

Coddled Egge. —.Have the chaHng-dish nearly full of boiling 
water, drop in the eggs carefully, cover, turn down the flame of the 
lamp BO the water will be just below the boiling point, and cook 
sin, eight, or ten minatcs, according to the size and freshness of the 
eggs. A fresh egg, full to the shell of alhninen, requirea niore 
time than an older egg that haa loat something by evaporation. 
This is why there is so much variation in the cooking of e^a, 
and unless one knows about the age of the eggs it is difflcalt to 
have them always done to the desired degree. 



THK PEERLESS COOK-BOOE.* 115 

Scrambled Eggs. — Have one tablespoon of butter in the pan 
heatiag over hot nater. Beat three egga slightly, shake in a little 
pepper, turn into the hot butter, and as the; cook, scrape toward 
the middle, and when all i» a quiverbg, jellf-like mass, sprinkle 
sligbtlj with iait, and serve at once on walere, toast, or shortcakes. 

Turned Eggs. — Fnt one heaped teaspoon of butter Id the bot 
blazer, break an egg in a saucer, slip It on into the butter without 
breaking the yolk, sprinkle with salt and paprika, draw the cooked 
white toward the centre to prevent spreading too mach. When tbe 
e^g is flnu add a dot of butler, turn it over and brown the other 

Bggs Poached in Cream, — Melt one teaspoon of butter in 
the blazer, turn in one-half cup of thin cream, and when bubbling, 
add four eggs, one at a time from a saucer. Sprinkle with salt and 
paprika, £iUI) the cooking over the hot-watsr pan. When the 
wlute is firm, remore them carefully to slices of toast and pour the 
cream over them. 

Eggs )» la Aurora. — Have ready three eggB cooked twenty 
minutes just below the boiling point. In the lower pan set a cup 
of milk m the water and when hot remove. Put into the upper 

Ean an ounce pat of butter and one tablespoon of flour, mixed with 
alf a teaspoon each of paprika and salt. Mix welt and add grad- 
ually the hot milk. When smooth cut the eg^ in quarters length- 
wise and lay them in the •■■"- '^ — ' -' — **— 

eggs are hot take them a 

Stened Eggs. — Cut in small pieces one onion, three tomatoes, 
and a small green pepper. Cover with water and let stew until 
welt done. Then strain through a colander and add a teaspoonful 
of sugar, with salt to taste. Pour this in a fryins-pan to boil. 
' Break carefully into the boiling liquid five eggs. Stir until haii, 
and serve. 

ElggH & la Sorrento. — Put one rounded tablespoon of butter 
in the chafing-dish, add one tablespoon of chopped onion, and a 
half-inch hit of bay leaf. Cook slowly until the onion is yellow, 
Semove the bay leaf and turn in two cups of strained tomato pulp, 
and one-half cup of crumbled cheese, Edam or common American. 
Season with one level teaspoon of salt and one-fourth teaspoon of 

?aprika; add one rounded tablespoon of butler, then drop m care- 
ully four unbeaten eggs. I>et them cook without stirring until 
some of the white becomes opaque, then prick the yolks and mix 
gently until they have thickened the whole. Serve on toast or 



THE PEESLBBB COOE-B 



Cream Omelet. — Pat oue teaapoon of butter into the cbaflu);- 
pan, add one half-cup of thia cream, and irben hot, add six well- 
beaten eggi. When the eggs begin to set, commence stirring, and 
stir until all the liquid is thickened bj the eggs. Sprinkle ou a 
little gait and pepper, and serve it by spoonfuls from the pan. 

Cbeeae Omelet, — Beat the yolks and whites of six eggs sepa- 
rately, add one level teaspoon of salt, a dash of paprika, and three 
tablespoons of milk. Put one tablespoon of butter in the pan, and 
when hot pour in the eggs, slip a knife under the middle, and as it 
cooks round the edge ciran it away, and let the uncooked part ran 
over it. When nearly set, aprinkle two tablespoons of fine grated 
cheese over the top, fold it together, and turn out, or serve from the 

0;Bt«r Rarebit. — Pick over and remove the hard muscle from 
half a pint of oyetere, parboil them in the chafing-dish in their own 
liquor until their edges curl, then turn them into a hot bowl. Pat 
into the chafing-dish one tablespoon of butter, half a pound of cheese 
finely crambted. one saltspoon each of salt, paprika, and mngtard. 
Beat two eggs slightly, add the oyster liquor, and when the cheese 
is melted add this gradually, then add the oysters and when hot 
turn it orer hot toast 

Bpanlah Rarebit. — Peel and slice a Spanish onion, scald five 
minutes and drain. Melt two rounded tablespoons of butter in the 
pan, add the sliced onion, and cook it slowly ten minutes. Add one- 
half cup milk and one cup mild cheese crumbled fine. Stir well as 
the cheese melts, and season with salt and paprika. Beat one egg, 
add two tablespoons of milk or cream, and stir it into the cheese 
mixture. Remove from the fire as soon as well mixed. Serve with 
wafers. 

Spanish Fondue. — Melt two tablespoons of butter in a chafing- 
dish, add one tablespoon of onions chopped very flue, fry in butter 
until tender. Add one cup of shaved cheese, one cup of milk, and 

~r until melted, then add six eggs slightly beaten. When cooked 
' ream, take from fire, season, and serve on 

chafing-dish one cup milk, one cup soft 
ne cup soft bread-crumbs. Stir constantly, 
ana season to lasie with salt and paprika. When the cheese is 
melted and the milk abeorbed serve at once. 



THE PEEELESS COOK-BOOK. 117 

/ W«ltli Rarebit. — Cut one pound of soft Americftn cream cheese 

/ into unall dice. Put one tablespoon of butter in the chaflng-pan, add 

( one-half teaspoon of drj musC&rd, one-fourth teaspoon of papnka, 

V one tablespoon of Worcesterahire sauce, aud one-fourth cup of beer ; 

\ when the buUei ia melted add the cheese, and stir conatantlj as the 

] cheese melts, and add aa much more beer as needed Xa make the 

'< cheese smooth, about one-half cim in ail. When the cheeae ia all 

I melted and about aa thick aa tliicK cream, turn it at once over toast 

/ or wafers i some persons prefer it on plain fresh bread cut in lajge 

/ slices witliout crust. 

WeUh Rarebit. — Put into the blazer one tableapoon of butter, 
one-fourth teaspoon of paprika, one tablespoon of walnut or muah- 
room catsup. Turn in one pound of rich cream cheese, finel}' crum- 
bled, and begin stirring. As the cheese melts,_ lift the pan from the 
fire frequeutl7, and when most of the cheese is hot, turn in gradu- 
ally about one-fourth cap of cream, adding more or less according to 
the cheese. It should be a amooth batter that does not break in the 
pouring. HaTe the wafera or toaat ready on a fork, dip each piece 
into the rarebit until covered, and serve quickly on a hot plate ; or 
if more convenient, pour it over the wafers. 

MuBhroom Sante. — Wash one-half pound of mushrooms, wipe 
and cut off the stems as far as tough, peel the caps and cut them in 
quarters or amall pieces. Melt in the chaOng-pan two tablespoons 
of butter, add the mushrooms, cover tightly, and cook five minulea, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and when they turn dark aod arc nearly 
cooked, turn in three or four tablespoons of rich cream. Let the 
mixture boil up once or twice, and turn onto toast. Use more cream 
if you prefer, for the muahrooma if fresh will flavor a large amount, 
and the sauce ia delicioua on the toaat Wine, nutmeg, onion, and 
some pungent sauces are sometimes used with mnshrooms, but if 
the delicate flavor of the fungi is desired, why destroy it with high 
seasoning ? 

Banajia Saote. — Bemove the skin and fibres from the bananas 
I and cut in halves each way. Melt one tablespoon of butter in the 
blazer, and when hot lay in the bananaa and cook until brown, 
then torn them over, and when brown sprinkle slightly with salt 
and lemon- juice, and serve on toast or wafers. 

Creamed Beets. — Cut boiled beets to thin slices, or into dice. 
Heat them in the chaSng-pan with cream to cover, and add one 
l«aspoon of vinegar and a little sugar and salt. Have juat cream 
enough to moisten the beets. 



THE PBBBLE8S COOK-BOOS. 



thin «lice< «nd B , -. . - , - - 

■poon of minced oiiioa is one heapinft tableapoon of butter, until 
yellow. Add the potatoei, and stir with a fork until they have ab- 
torbed all the butler, being careful not to break them. Add oDe 
tablespoon of chopped pariley, and serve hot. One tablespoon of 
vinegar heated with the butter gives the potatoes a nice flavor. 

CheatiMita ^ la I^onulse. — Shell, blanch, and boil the chests 
nuts twelve minutes, or till soft. Dram aod toss them about io bot 
butter in chaflng-diah, with a bit of fried onion, and serve at once. 

Komlet Fritters. — Mix one-half can of Komlet with two well- 
beaten eggs, add one-hali teaapoun of salt, one-eighth teaapooifof 
pepper, one-half teaspoon of baking-powder, and one tablespoon of 
flour. Put into the cha&ng-pan some clean bacon fat, free from 
salt, and when hot drop the mixture into the hot fat by Btnall spoon- 
fuls, and cook until crisp and brown ; turn and brown the other side 
and serve hot- 
Canned String Betuis. — Cook one email oiuon in two table- 
spoons of hot butter until yellow, add one-half teaspoon of salt, a 
dash of pepper and nutmeg, and the beans rinsed and drained. 
Toss them about in the hot butter, cover the pan, and cook slowlj 
ten minutes. Add one teaspoon of lemon. juice, and serve hot. 

Peaa In tlie Oufing-dlsb. — Open a can of the beat peas, tnm 
them into a colander and let cold water run throuf;h them until 
there is uo more foam. Put a rounded tableapoon of butler in the 
blazer, add the drained peas, sprinkle on a litUe pepper, sugar, and 
salt, oud tosB them about in the hot butter until well heated, then 
serve at once. 

Halibut % la Parmesan. — Thie is a nice way of using any cold 
boiled fish like halibut, haddock, or other white fish. XVee it from 
alt skin and bones, and flake itflnely. Have readj also some freshly 
^ated cheese, minced parsley, lemon-juice, and wafers or toast. 
When ready to serve from the chaQng-dish, set a cup of cream 
into the hot-water pan until hot. In the blazer melt one rounded 
tablespoon of butter, atir in one rounded tablespoon of flour, and 
one-half tablespoon of ealt, a dash of cayenne or paprika, add the 
cup of hot cream gradually, and when smooth add one tablespoon 
of lemon-juice, one cup of the minced flsh, and three tablespoons 
of Parmeaan eheeae. When thoroughly heated, spread the mUture 
on the wafera or buttered toaat, sprinkle a little chopped parsley 
over each porllon, and serve. 



THE PBBBLES3 COOK-BOOK. 



but not colored, lay in the fiUets and cook caref uliy nntil a delicate 
brown nrnJerneath, tiien turn and cook the other eide, and when 
done, sprinkle with a mixture of mineed chives and parsley, apd 

Salmon FatUea Procure 9ome nice patty shells, from the 

confectioDer'e, if you Iiatc oeither time nor skill for making them 
at home. Open a can of saluioa and free it from skin, bones, and 
liqnor. Make one pint of white sauce with two tablespoons of 
flour cooked in two tabiespoona of hot butter, add two cups of 
thin cream, and when smooth, add the salmon. If to be served as 

Elain creamed salmon, dish as soon as hot ; if in the patty shells, 
eat sauce and fish till tike a paste, and heap it in the pattiee. 

Boiled Elsh with Lobeter Sauce. —This is a dish suitable for 

a chafing-dish luncheon, and it will be well to have two chafing- 
dishes. 

Have ready the meat from one medium-sized lobster cut in 
■mall pieces, and two pats of butter rolled in flour. Use any firm 
fish free from fine bones, — halibut, red snapper, etc. Cut it in 
small hnlf-inch slices of uniform shape. Tbe trimmings will do 
for another dish. Nearly fill the blazer with water, add one table- 
spoon of lemon.juice, and one teaspoon of salt. Lay in the fish 
and let it cook gently, covered about fifteen minutes, or till firm. 
While this is cooking, heat one cnp of cream in the other dish, stir 
in the floured butter, season with paprika and sa1t,add the lobster, 
and when hot pour it over the drained flsh as you serve it. 

E^sb Cutlets. — Mil equal parts of mashed potato- and finely 
flaked cooked fish. Moisten with hot cream or fish sauce, and 
season highly, and form into cutlet shape, or round cakes. Roll 
in fine bread-crumbs, then in beaten egg, then in crumbs which 
have been moistened in melted butter. Lay the cutlets in the 
blazer and cook till brown on each side. 

Crimped FIaIl. — Soak slices of any firm white fresh fish in 
Tery strongly salted water. Put them into boiling salted water 
cnoDgh to cover, with two tablespoons of vinegar, and boil gently 
abont ten minutes. Drain ; arrange on a platter ; remove the skin 
and bones. Serve hot with oyster or lobaler sauce, or cold with 
Mayonnaise or Tartare sauce poured into tha cavity left by thq 
bone. Garnish with v~' -— 



120 THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 

SMnUnes. — ThU U a ^uick war of preparing eanUnes in & 
chafing^ah, and ii a faTonte with those who like eardinei hot and 
highly seasoaed. Allow three or four for each person, drain them 
from the oil, and if you like, you may remove aa much of the akio 
as can be done witliout wa^te, and the backbone also — although 
people generally consider that the bones are so softened in the 
curing that they are unobjectionable. Put them in the chaGng- 
dish and mash them thoroughly as tliey heat. To half a can of 
gnrdinei allow one tablespoon each of lemon-juice, muBhroom 
catsup, and mango ohutney. When hot and well mixed, spread the 
paste on wafers and eerve at once. Sherry wine is Botnotunes used 
io place of the acid condiments. 

i w»i¥i»»i Toast. — Open a can of amoked sardines, drain from 
the oil, put them in a chaflng-dleh over the hotwater pan, and 
mash and stir with a fork. Moisten with the juice of one lemon, 
add a little paprika, and when smooth and hot, spread the mixture 
on wafers and serve with olires. 

Oystfirs In Bacon Blanketa, — Drain and season large oysters 
with pepper, lemon-juice, and slightly with salt. Wrap each 
oyster in a thin slice of fat bacon, and pm it with a wooden skewer. 
Toss them about in the hot blazer nntil the bacon is crisp and 
serve as fast as cooked. 



cramhed, hare the blazer covered with melted butter, and when 
hot, lay in the oysters and cook nntil a delicate brown, not the 
crisp brown of deep frying, but merely enough to start the flow 
of the juice. Serve as fast aa cooked. 

Fanned Oysters. — Put two rounded tableapoona of butter in 
the blazer, and when melted and hot, add one pint of well-drained 
oyaters. Shake the pan and toas the oystera until the edges curl, then 

!iour in one-half cup of scalded cream, add a daah of pepper, a grat- 
ng of nutmeg, ana salt to taste, the amount depending npon the 
saltneas of the oysters and the butter. Serve steaming hot, with 

Curried Oyst«rs. — Pick over one quart of solid oysters. Put 
them into the blazer, or half of them if the pan is small, and cook 
them directly over the flame, which should not be too high. Shake 
the pan and stir them from tlie bottom, without pricking into them 
to let out the juice. When the edges curl, turn the oyaters into a 
strainer, and then cook the retnainder. Into the otber pan put two 
tablespoons of butter, and when melted, cook in it one tablespoon 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 121 

of minced onion; sdd one tablespoon of flour and one teaspoon o( 
currj poirder. Add gradnallf one cup of the oyster brotb and an» 
half cup of cream, and stir until smooth. Season with one level 
teaspoon of salt and a little cayenne. Let the sauce cook five 
minntes, then add the oyateis, an^ when hot serve at once with 

03/Hter Omelet. — Parboil and drain one cup of oysters, then 
cut them in halvea, or quarters if large ; sprinkle them slightly with 
salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. Beat the yolka and whites of three 
eggs separately. Add to the yolks three tableepoona of the oyster- 
liquor, or milk if preferred, and the yolks. Put the chaflng-pan 
over the blazer and melt in it one rounded tablespoon of butter, 
letting it cover the aides aUo. When the butter is hot turn in the 
stiffly beaten whites, and spread them round the pan, then pour the 
yolks on top. Cover tile pan and let them cook over the boiling 
water, occasioiiBUy cutting through the mixture and turning the 
white over into the yolk, but do not mix it thoroughly. When the 
whole mixture is cooked, dip it otit by spoonfuls onto toast or hot 
plates. 

Grlddled OyBtors. — Use for this method of cooking only the 
large, well-fattened oysters. Lay them on a cloth, then cover with 
another, and press gently until they are very dry, but not enough to 
absorb all of their juice. Have ready a serving dish widi melted 
butter, seasoned with lemon-juice, a drop of onion-juice, salt, cay- 
enne, and minoed parsley. Heat the blazer and grease it well with 
butter. Lay in the oysters as many as will cover the pan, and as 
soon as brown, which is almost instantly, turn Ihem over onto a 
freshly greased place and brown the other side until the edges curl 
and the juice beeins to ooze out. Then drop them into the season- 
ing mixture, and keep Uiem hot until all are cooked. They will 
go on cooing in iae hot butt«r and their own juices. Servs 
Immediately. 

Sant»dOyBt«rs. — Clean and drain lat^e oysters. Putonetable- 
apoon of butter in the chafing-dish, when hot lay in the oysters, turn 
when slightly colored, and remove when plump. Season with salt 
and pepper am! mushroom catsup- 
Dry Sante. — Parboil oysters slightly. Drain, dip in leasoaed 
crumbs, and brown in hot butter. 

Oysters vrlth Parsley. — Pick over and parboil one pint of 
solid oysters. Drain, save the liquor and cut the oysters in three 
or four pieces. Add enough cream to the oyster liquor to make 
one cup in aU, and when hot stir it gradually into one tablespoon 



122 THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 

of batter and one lieapiag tablespoon of Soar cooked together. 
Season with h&lf & teaspoon of ssilt, hall a saltBpoon of paprika, 
aad a Hltipoan of celery salt. Place the pan over hot wftter, add 
half a cup of canned miuhrooms cnt in quarters, and cook fire 
minntes ; then add the oysters, and when hot serre, and epriskle 
minced parsley over the top. 

Oreamed. Oystera. — Clean one pint of oysters, parboil in the 
lower pan, strain, add half a cup of cream to the liquor. Melt in 
the other pan one rounded tablespoon of butter, stir in one heap- 
ing tablespoon of corn-starch, one-tonrth teaspoon of salt, and a dash 
of paprika and celery salt, add the cream gradually, and when thick, 
add the oysters. Serve on shortcake or faocy puff paste. 

Clam Show, — Drain one pint of little-neck clams from their 
liquor and chop them flue. Add to the liquor an equal amount of 
water, put it in the blazer, and cook in it one teaspoon of fine minced 
onion, and one-half cup of minced celery. iJet this cook antU 
tender, then add the minced clams and cook about ten minntes. 
Season with pepper, and salt if needed, stir in a pat of butter rolled 



Clanu on Toast. — Chop Bne one pint of clams. Put the liquor 
from the clams with one tablespoon of butter, into the chaflng-^ush, 
add the clams, and let them stew about ten minutes. Season with 
one tablespoon of lemon-juice, a few drops of Tabasco sauce, and 
salt and pepper to taste. Let the mixture boil up once, then pour 
it orer hot brown-bread toast. 

Steamed Clains, — Have the clams well scrubbed and rinsed. 
^V'j-" ""iiyas will go in with the cover down, and let them 
*"'h ^^^'"J' °''*'^ the blaze, until the shells open. Remove them 
with a skimmer, and while these are being opened and devoured 
cook another portion. Serve with melted bulter and vinegar. 

Buttered Shrimps. — Open a can of shrimps and remove any 

5 °' *''"' o"- 8hell. Put two tablespoons of butter in the blazer 
and when melted add the ehrimps. a shake of paprika, the juice of 
aI S "*• '"^ ^i^'f » cup of water. r*t them cook five minutes 
add a lew drops of Tabasco or any preferred sharp sauce, and serve 

dii*?^** Shrimps, — Put one-half cup of cream in the chaflng- 
two Biro ?* teaspoon of anchovy sauce with the beaten yolks of 
Kcr^aH ' . " " '°"' the hot cream, add the shrimps, and when hot 

k1 ,',*"?""' toast. 
cni^iL. P"° "'«"■ *« '"'* "•■«• ^ pre»ent the egg* from 



THE PEEHLE8S COOK-EOOK. 123 

Scallops tried In Butter. — Drain the scallops and drj thor- 
oughly between towels. Cover them with fine cracker-crumbg sea- 
soned with salt and pepper. Let them stand for ten minutes where 
they will not touch each other, then roll again in fine cracker and 
cook them in hot butter. Do not crowd them, turn them when 
brown, and keep plenty of butter in tie pan. Drain and serre with 
hot sauce Tartare, Mix one tablespooQ each of vinegar, lemon- 
juice, and WorceHlerehire sauca, and one-fourth teaBpoon of ealt, 
and a few drops of onion-juice, and heat in a emal! eauce-pan over 
hot water. Brown two rounded tablespoons of butter in an omelet 
pan and strain it into the acid mixture and serve very hot. 

Curry of Scallops. — Put one teaspoon of butter in the chaflng- 
dish and when luelled add one tablespoon of minced onion. After 
this is browned stir in one teaspoon of curry powder. Cook for five 
minutes, then add one pint of white stock and let it simmer until 
reduced al>out one-half. Put in one pint of scallops, previously 
parboiled fifteen minutes, and cook from Ave to ten minutes. Add 
ealt to taste. 

Soft-sheU Crabs, santed.— After cleaning, season with salt 
and pepper, dredge all over with flour or fine cracker-crumbs. Lay 
them in a hot frying-pan having butter sufficient to cover the pan, 
cook until browned, then turn them, and when brown remove to a 
hot dish. Be careful that the butter does nofrbumjinrtng the pro- 
cess. Add to the butter in the pan one tableippon of lemon-Juice 
and strain it over the crabs. 

Lobster ^ la CMme. — Have ready the meat from a two-pound 
lobster, or enough to make one pint when cat in small pieces. 
Sprinkle one tablespoon of lemon-juice over the lobster. Put into 
the chafing-dish one rounded tablespoon of butter, one-half teaspoon 
of salt, and^a few grains of paprilca. When melted stir in one 
rounded tablespoon of com-starch. and when well ntixed add one 
cup of thin cream, and stir constantly until thick and smooth. 
Turn in the lobster cubes and toss about until hot. Then serve 
with baking-powder biscuits made very rich with butter and cut 
quite thin. These, of course, must be baked before luncheon 
is served. Bronn-bread bars, toasted slightly, may be used if 
preferred. 

Lobster a la Nevrburg. — The meat of a two-pound lobster cut 
in small pieces, and heated in chafing-dish in two rounded table- 
spoons of butler. Sprinkle over it one-half teaspoon of salt and 
a few grains of paprika, and one tablespoon eaeh'of sherry and 
brandy. Beat yolks of two eggs, add one cup of cream, turn it over 
the lobster, stir until thick and smooth, and serve at once with 
wafers or thin shortcakes. 



»PP«r, 
intil qc 



124 THE PEZSLESS COOS-BOOE. 

Lob*t«r Nswburg. No. 2. — Pick all the meat from two good- 
nied, fleihj boiled lobBters, sad cut into inch pieces. Place in a 
8aac«-p>n over a hot raage with odc ounce of ireBh butter, seaaon 
viiih aalt, add half a ealtapoon of red pepper, two medium-aiied 
trnfflee cut iuto dice-shaped piece*. After cooking Are minDtea add 
a winestaiB of Madeira wine. In tliree or four minutes add three 
egg jolks, beaten with a half-pint of 8weet cream ; stir about two 
miDutei loDRer until it become* thick, and eerve. 

This curdfeB easily from the over-cooking of the egg, and should 
not be put together until ju«t before serving. 

Lobster Newbnrg. No. 3. — Cut the meat of a large freshly 
boiled lobster into email pieces. Mash and sift thejolks of two hard- 
boiled eggs and make them into a, paste with a little cream. Melt 
two tablespoons of butter in the cbaSug-pan, add one tablespoon 
of Sour and the egg paste, and when smooth, add slowly one cnp of 
cream. There will be less danger of the cream curdling if one- 
fourth teaapoon of soda is first stirred into it. When the cream 
1 boils, put in the lobster and season with a little salt and 
er, and a tin; bit of mace. Let it cook for two minutes, or 
1 quite hot, then stir in two tablespoons of sherry and serve 
ai once on wafers. 

Frog's Legs ^ In Cr&tle. — Wash, drain, and leason six pairs ' 
of legs, put them in a shallow dish, add juice of one lemon, and 
after an hour put two ounces of butter in the chaflng-pan, and one 
minced onion, one minced green pepper, and cook five minutes. 
Then put in the legs, cover closely, and cook ten minutes. Add 
four ripe tomatoes, skinned and sliced, half a cup of mushrooms, 
cover again and cook until tender. Turn Into a hot disb and 
garnish with toast points. 

Frog's LegH ^ la Ponlette. — Wash one dozen frog's tegs and 
season with sa.t and pepper. Put them in the chafing-pan wilJi two 
tablespoons of butter and cook very slowly for t«n minutes, then 
add half a cup of water and one tablespoon lemon-Juice, cover 
and simmer until tender. Remove the legs to a hot dish, aAd half 
a cup of cream to the liquor left in the pan, and when boiling, stir 
in quickly the yolks of tvro raw eggs slightly beaten, remove at 
once, continue stirring until thickened, then turn it over the legs. 
Serve on toast and garnish with crisp bacon. 

Cnrry of Roast B«ef. — Put one heaped tablespoon of butter 
in the blazer, add one tablespoon of minced onion, and when 
slightly brown, add one teaspoon of curry powder mixed with one 
tablespoon of flour. Stir well, then add two cups of brown stock, 
ind eight or ten canned mushrooms minced line. K you have 



THE PEIBLESS COOK-BOOK. 125 

freBh onee all the better. Add also, one tableBPoou of mango 
chutoej, and two tablespoons of cooking wine. When all ready 
to serve, turn in two cups of cold roast beef out in small slivers, 
toss it about till merely warmed, and serve at once. 

Frizzled Beef. — Pour boiling water over the beef and let 
it stand tea minutes, then drain well. Beat four eggs slightlj, 

£ut one rounded tablespobn of butter in tlie chafing-pao and when 
ot add the beef, about one-fourth pound, and stir with a fork 
until the slices curl. Set the pan over the blazer of boiling water 
and add the eggs, stirring until thick and creamy, add a daeb of 
pepper, and serve at once. 

Corned'&eef Hash. ~ Equal parts of cooked meat and potatoes, 
or two of potatoes and one of meat. Remove the bone, gristle, and 
skin, and all but one-fourth part of fat. Chop fiue and mix well 
with potatoes. If hot, mash the potatoes ; if cold, chop tbem. 
Season with salt and pepper, moisten with hot water, sto(^, milk, 
or cream. Cover bottom of spider or chafing pan witb dripping 
or butter, spread the mixture over the pan, cook slowly till brown 
crust forms, fold over and turn out like omelet. If more crisp 
crust is desired, shape the mixture into small rounds or ovals and 
fry tbem in a generous amount of fat, turning when brown. 

Haah. — Chop equal parts of cold, lean corned beef and boiled 
potatoes together until very fine. Put one large lableapoonful of 
butter in the chaflng-disli over t)ie hot water, add one salt^poonfnl 
of paprika and a few drops of onion-juice. Turn is the minced 
mixture and stir it well as it beats. Moisten it with water or stock. 
When nearly ready stir in another tablespoon of butter, cover, 
and let it simmer a few minutes longer, tfien dish it as needed. 

HambnTg Steak. — Parboil several sliced onions till tender, 
then drain dry and cook till yellow in butter. Hare a thick stealc 
from the top of round or sirloin, or have meat run through a 
meat-chopper, seasoned and made into a thick piece tike whole 
steak. Cook in the pan with the onions. Season with salt, pepper, 
and butter, and cover with the fried onions. With chopped meat, 
mix some of the fried onions in the middle of the meat 

Devilled Beef. — Spread several slices of rare roast beef with 
butter as you would bread, cover witb a layer of mixed mustard, 
a little black pepper, and salt, a tablespoon of vinegar, and cook it 
in the chaflng-dish until it curls. 

Gretuned Tongne. — After slicing from the best part of a 
boiled tongue, cut the remnants One, discarding fat and gristle, 
and beat the mince in a whit« sauce, using sufficient to moisten 
well. Serve on towted biaonit. 



126 TUB PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 

Hlnc«d Ve*! on Toa«t. — One pint cold roatt or stewed real, 
freed from bonea, ikin, and griiUe, andcut fine. MoiateD Bljghtl>- 
witU hot gravy, milk or water or tomato, leaaon to t*«te with salt 
and pepper, and when hot spread it on toast. Add one tablespoon 
butter II only water is lued for moisture. 

Ve*l Chop*. — Remove the kidaej with the fat adherent and 
trim into round shape ; remove the bone, trim and wipe the cliop, 
and dip in seaioued crumbs, beaten dilated egg, tuid again in 
crumbs. Cook the kidney with its ring of suet in gait-pork fat 
until a delicate brown, then brown the chops in the eame fat. 
Drain, airaage chops in centre with kidney round the edge ; 
garnish with watercress, and serve with horseradish. 

Sweetbread Patties. — Soak gweetbreadg >□ cold water, remove 
plpea and membranes, and conk in boiliug salted water with one 
tablespoon of lemon-Juice twenty minutes, then plunge into cold 
water to harden. When very cold, break into smalt pieces, heat 
them in a rich cream sauce, and serve in puff-paste shells, or in 
biscuit boxes. 

Santed Sweetbreads. — Clean the sweetbreads, boil twenty 
minutes, chill and dry thoroughly. Split in halves and season 
with salt and pepper. Cover with fine crumbs, egg and crumbs, 
and cook till a delicate brown in hot butter in the blazer. 

Brains Breaded and Fried. — Cut the blanched brains into 
slices, dip iu beaten e^ seasoned with salt and pepper, then in 
crumbs, and brown them on each side in hot butter, enough to 
cover Che bottom of a frying-pan or cha&ng-diah, and when done 
gamieh with sliced lemon and pour Hollandaise sauce around 

Brains It la Fonlette. — Cut the blanched braine in small thin 
slices, add half the quantity of muahrooros quartered, and heat the 
mixture in a Foulette sauce. Make a white sauce with one cup of 
chicken stock, one tablespoon eacb of butter and flour. Wlien 
ready to serve, beat yolks of two eggs with half a cup of cream 
and stir this into the sauce after removing it from the Are. Season 
with salt, pepper, and two teaspoons each of lemon-juice and 
chopped parsley. 

Lamb & la Creole. — Prepare two tablespoons of minced onions, 
four tablespoons of green pepper chopped fine after removing the 
seeds, two cups of cold lamb cut in mce, two cups of white stock 
or lamb broth, one cup of stewed and strained tomatoes, two 
rounded tablespoons of butter and two of flour. Melt the butter 
in the chaflng-pan, add the onion and pepper and let them cook 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 127 

about fire minutee. Stir in the floor and add gradually the stock 
and tomatoes, and when the mistare thickens, add ealt to taite and 
the diced lamb. Have ready aieo aome boiled rice and serve it 
with the lamb. 

KMney Saute. — Have ready four lambe' kidneys, washed, the 
skin and cores removed, and then cut into thin slicee. Put in the 
blazer two tablespoons of butter and one teaspoon of flour. 
When the butter is hot, add the kidneys and stir constantly until 
all cooked. Season with salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and then 
turn in one-half cup of stock or hot water. Stir until it beginB to 
boil, then put the hot-water pan under and let them stand five 
minutes, then serve on toast. One-half cup of mushrooms cut 
in quarters may be used if preferred. 

Chlcben Pilau. — Warm one pint of canned chicken, or cold 
roast or boiled chicken, in one pint of water till the meat is very 
tender. Skim out the meat, and add to the liquor one pint of 
strained tomatoes. Season highly with salt, pepper, flne-chopped 
onion, and curry or Chutney sauce. When boiung, add two cupi 
of cold boiled rice, and cook till the rice is soft. Add the pieces of 
chicken and half a cup of butter or cream. When hot, turn out 
on a platter, and garnish with triangles of toast. 

Chicken Livers. — Clean, remove gall-hag and green liver ad- 
joining, cut in small slices. Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour, 
and saut^ in butter. Kemove, add one tablespoon of butter, one 
level tablespoon of flour, on^half cup of chicken stock, stir till 
thick, add two tablespoons of mango chutney, and pour it over 
the livers- 
Mock Terrapin. — Put into the blazer one cup of cream or part 
white stock. Have ready two tablespoons of butter made into a 
pasle with one tablespoon of flour and the sifted yolks of three 
h(u^-boiled eggs, and seasoned with one teaspoon of dry mustard, 
a Little cayenne, and salt. Stir this into the boiling cream, and 
when thick, put tlie pan over the hot-water pan, and add from one 
to two cups of cold chicken, turkey, veal, or white game, cut in 
small pieces. Let it cook unti! the meat is hot, then serve at once. 
Tnrkef & la Tartare. — Put two rounded tablespoons of butter 
in the blazer, and cook in it two small onions sliced thin. When 
slightly colored, stir in two tablespoons of Worcestershire sauce, 
two tablespoons of vinegar, and a mixture of one-fourth teaspoon 
f salt, a aash of paprika, and one teaspoon of dry mustard, add 

n of tomato catsup. When well blended and hot, add one 

r cold turkey cut in small dice. When heated thoroaghlj 



!CUP 

it Of CI 



THE PEZBLXSS COOK-BOOK. 

1 Venlaoo. —Venison should be ezBtnined caref aUy. 
Remove all the tough membraneB, hairs, aud most of the fat, and 
wipe it welL It ii usually preferred rare, and as it cools quickly, 
partlcularlj the fat, eTerylhiug else should be ready that ttiis may 
Literally go from the Ore to the plate. It is a meat eepeciallj 
toited to the cbaflug^dish for that reason. Turn it frequently and 
cook according to your fancy — rare or well done. Ha*e ready 
fome acid jelly, currant or plum, melted, and lerve on the yenisou, 
or dress it simply with butter, salt, and lemon-juice if you dislike 
the iweet flavor of the jelly- Serve very hot. 

Fillets o( Oama. — Remove the breaat of any imail game, 
partridges, <]uail, or grouse, separate each half into two fllleta, trim 
and press into good shape, brush with melted butter, brown 
quickly, spread witb prepared butter, and serve on toast with celery 
■alad. Prepared butler ie also known as inaltre d'kSui butter- 
Two round tablespoons of butter creamed and flavored with oue 
tabletpoon each of lemoD-jnice and minced parsley, one-half 
teaspoon of salt, and une-cigbth teaspoon of pepper. 

QattlL — Cleaa and split the quail down the back as for broiling. 
Put two tabletpouna of butter in the chaflog-pan, lay in the birde, 
and when browned on one side, turn over and cook the other. Add 
one-half cup of stock, one heaped tablespoon of currant or plum 
^""y, one tablespoon of mushroom catsup, aud a little celery salt 
I paprika. Add also ooe-fourth cup of claret if you prefer- 
DBve ready some slices of fried houiiny, or corn mush, aod serve 
with the quail. 

Saiua«e and Scnuubled Egsa, — Cnt two cooked sauBages 
into small pieces, and warm them quickly in the ebafiug-pan. 
Pour o& the fat, add one tablespoon of butter, and when melted, 
turn in six eggs slightly beaten with six tablespoons of cream 
or milk. Stir constantly until thick and smooth, add salt and 
pepper to taste, and serve from the pan. 

Bkoon and Smiaace Pat. — These fats impart a fine flavor to 
many articles which it may be desirable to cook in ttie chafing- 
dish, and if when bacon or sausages are cooked on the range the 

fat is strained and put away, it will be found convenient to use 
on the chafing-dish, and thus avoid the odor and grease from 
the direct frying of these at the table. 

Frankf nrtera. — Have the pan nearly full of boiling water, add 
as many sausages as it will hold, and let them boll about eisbt 
mlnntei. Serve with rye bread. 



jelly, o 



THE PKEELE8S COOK-BOOK. 



Brown-Bread Saut«. — Cook t 
bacon in the blazerf then broim so 
bacon fat 

Heod-Oheese. — Cut faalf-inch glicea from head-cheese, aod 
couk them quicklj in the chaflng-pan in hot butter or fat. Serre 
OQ bTOirn-bread lant^. 

Deerfoot Scraps. — One of the latest old-faBhioaed dishes to 
come into favor with the modem palate 1b scraps, or the crisp 
membrane left from the trying out of lard. Manj of us remember 
the relish which these delicate brown, crumbly morsels gave to 
our school-day lunch of brown-bread. Recently they hare been 
in great demand as a tidbit for evening whist parties. They are 
eaten cold spread on wafers, or at a chafiug-disb aupper tbej are 
slightly heated and spread between thin B4ndn'ich bread. 

Bam. — Melt in a chaflng-dish a large tablespoon of bntter and 
half a glass of currant or otfier acid jelly. Shake in a little pepper, 
and when hot lay in four or five Braall, thin slices of boiled cold 
ham. Let it boil up once and serve quickly on toast. 

Creamed Hfun. — Warm one cup of finely chopped boiled ham 
in one pint of hot cream. Stir into it quickly two weU-beateu 
eggs, add a little pepper, and salt if needed, and turn at onee over 
hot shortcakes. 

^ Boe Cake. — Mix one-fourth teaspoon of salt with one cup of 
/ white bolted com-meal. Add boiling water to merely wet and 
I swell the meal. Thin with milk to a thick batter that wilt not 
\ spread when dropped. Stir in one teaspoon of baking powder. 
j J&'op on a well-buttered blazer. When^brown, put a bit of bntter 
J on top of each and turn them over. The fine Rhode Island meal 
A is the favorite preparation in New England for thin simple break- 
1 fast cake, known in many places as scalded com^^alies, but in the 
j South yellow meal is used. Care must be taken not to liave the 
j meal too wet at first. SomeEitnes one-fourth teaspoon of soda is 
I used in the place of t>aking powder, giving a flavor something like 
\^ that of hulled com. 

Peach Sho^t(^ake. — Mix one pint of fiour, one-half teaspoon 
salt, and four level teaspoons baking powder. Add one-fourth cup 
melted butter to three-fourths cup milk, stir quickly into the flour, 
and drop by large spoonfuls on a warm greased blazer, Pat out 
round and turn when risen and brown. Split, and eat vrith butter, 
(liced [wacliei, tai ingar. 



130 THE PEBBLESB COOE-BOOE. 

By* Sbortcalw Toast. — Mix one cnp each of floor sud rji- 
flour, one utbleipoon at ingu', one-half teaspoon of salt, and four 
level teaapooDi of baking poirder. Make a aliS dougb with about 
one cup of milk and one tableipoon of inel(«d butter. Boll thin, 
cut in round*, cook on the blazer. Tear open and pour thick 

Banana Compote. —Put one cup of lugar aod one-half cup of 
water in the cbaflns-pan, add one-inch bit of Btii;k cinnamon, aix 
ctoTea, and six alUpice beiriei. Stir until the sugar ia dissolred, 
then cook eiitht minutes without Btirring. Skim out the spices and 
add til bananas, peeled, scraped, and cat in halires each waj. Let 
them simmer until clear, then add the juice of two oranges, and 
batf a lemon, or one grape fruit Serve it with hoiled rice, and add 
whipped cream if you like. 

Jelly Fritters. — Mix one well-beaten egg with one cnp of milk, 
add a luspicion of salt, and then dip slices of stale sponge-cake, or 
lady flnf^ers, in the batter, and when well softened, cook them a 
delicate brown in hot butter in the chaflng-pan. When brown on 
both aides, spread a layer of jelly or jam on each slice and pile two 
together. Serve with whipped cream. 

Toast«d Waters with Onanse Marmalade. — Beat one egg, 

add oue cup (if milk and a bit of salt. Dip wafers into the mixture, 
and when soft, remove them carefully, and brown them in hot 
butter in the chafing-pan. Cover with orange marmalade and 

Sandwich Saute. — Cut bread In thin tUces, remove the crasta, 
spread with a mixture of soft cheese moistened with cream to a 
spreading consistency, and seasoned with salt and paprika. Put 
the slices together and saut^ them quickly in hot butter in the 

Sponge Drops with Hacaroons. — Make a sauce with one oop 
of any fruit syrup or juice, thicken it slightly with arrowroot or 
com-atarch, having first sweetened it to taste. Soften some dry 
macaroons in this sauce. Brown the under side of sponge drops 
in hot butter, in the chaflng-pan, lay them on a dish, put a maca- 
roon on each, and serve with some of the hot fruit sauce. 

. , r sponge-drops. Cut 
-. --1 halves or slices, and sautt a golden brown in a little 
hot butter in the chaflng-dish, and lay them on a hot platter. Wash 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 131 

the dish, set it over the lamp, and put in one eup of canned pine- 
apple juice. When it boils, add one teaspoon of corn-etarch whicli 
haa be«n wet with a little of the syrup and sweeten it to taste. 
Boil two oiiDUteB. Fut a spoonful of the pineapple on each piet-e 
of toaat, pour the Bauce over, and serve at once. 

Cbocolate Dessert. — Put into the chaling-pan two squares of 

Baker's unsweetened chocolate broken fine, four rounded table- 
spoons of sugar, and four tablespoons of hot water. Stir constantlj 
□ntil thick and smooth. Add a scant haLf-cup of cream, and one- 
fourth cup of milk, and stir until it boils. Then place the pan over 
the hot water, heat the yolks of two eggs, add one tablespoon of 
cream, one-fourth teaspoon of salt, and a bit of cinnamon, or one 
teaspoon of vanilla, and stir this into the hot mixture, stirring con- 
stantly as it thickens. Beat the whites uf the two eggs stiff, and 
fold then) in lightly. Let it cook over the hot water ten minutes or 
more, nntil light and spongy. Serve hot or cold with whipped 
creun and powdered sugar. 

Chocolate Caramels. — Fnt into the blazer one pound of brown 
sugar, one-fourth pound of grated chocolate, and one-half cup of 
water, and let it cook nntil a little dropped in cold water will 
harden. Then stir in one tablespoon of batter and one cup of 
chopped walnuts or pecans. Mix thoroughly, and turn into shiUlow 
buttered pans, and before it liardens cut it into squares. 

Vanilla Caramels. — Cook together in the blazer two cups of 
granulated augar, one cup of cream, and two rounded tablespoons 
of butter, stirring constantly, until a little dropped in ice-water will 
harden to a Snn ball. Remove from the heat, and add two teaspoons 
of vanilla extract, beat it well, and then turn into buttered pans to 
cool. Mark in squares. 

Peanut Candy. — Have ready a quantity of peanuts shelled, 
skinned, and split in halves, put a layer of them on a shallow, 
greased pan. O>ok together in the blazer one cup of old-fashioned 
dark molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one tablespoon of vinegar, 
. and one tablespoon of butter. Boil until crisp when dropped in cold 
water, add a scant teaspoon of bicarbonate of soda, and stir well, 
then pour it carefully over the peanuts. Let it cool quickly, and 
when very hard break into irregular pieces. 

Maple Sag&t Candy. — One cup of milk, one cup of cream, one 
pound of maple sugar. Pound the sugar into small pieces, and pat 
all together in the blazer, and stir constantly as it boils, and when 
it will Iiarden in cold water, stir in as many chopped nuts as the 



132 THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOE. 

candy will take up, then torn oat to cooi m a Bbnllow buttered pan, 
and when bard break up into irregular pieces. 

I>eTlUed Almanda. — One cup of almondB blanched and cut 
into long slivera. Put one tablespoon of butter in the blazer, and 
when hot turn in tlic almonds, and stir until all are a light brown. 
Mix one tablespoon of chutney, two tableepoonB of walnnt catsup, 
one tablespoon of minced olives, and one-fourth tea^oon of salt. 
Mix it with the nuts aod serve as soon as hot. 

Roaet«d Chestnuts. — Cut a slit in the shell of each cheat- 
nut, put them in the blazer, with one teaspoon of butter, directly 
over the flame, and shake them while they are cooking. They are 
done when thuy burst open and the ahell will peel oS easily. 
Serve them hot. 

Lemon Batter. — The juice and grated rind of three lemont, 
three well-beaten eggs, two cups of sugar, one scant cup of water, 
and one level teaspoon of butter. Beat well together, and cook 
in the hol^water pan five minutes or until it is thick. This is 
delicious spread between slices of bread for a sandwich or as a filling 
to put on sponge-drops or lady fingers. 

Fralt Pudaing. — Cook one quart of ripe berries, or canned 
peaches or apricots, with one pint of water and sugar to taste, in 
the hotwater pan, until the fruit is well scalded. Skim out the 
fruit into a disn for serving. Wet one scant cup of fine granulated 
wheat flour in a little cold water, stir it into the boiimg syrup, 
cook ten minutes, and pour it over the fmiL Serve very cold 
with cream. 

Uttle I^yer Pnddlnga. — Mix ooe cup of pastry flour, two 
level teaspoons of baking powder, one-eighth teaspoon of salt j stir 
in milk enough to make a soft dough, too stiff to pour but not stiff 
enough to knead. Butter some small timbale moulds. Put in a 
teaspoon of the dough, then a teaspoon.or enough to make a thick 
layer of blueberries, blackberries, stratvberries, sliced apple, 
peach or apricot, or any other fruit preferred. Then cover the 
it with another layer of dough. Cover closely, set in the blazer 

a come balf-way up the aides of i" 

hour, and serve with sweetened cres 

Breakfast Cereal. — Put two cups of waler into the blazer, add 
one-half teaspoon of salt, and when boiling stir in quickly two- 
thirds of a cup of wheatena, vitos, farinose, barley crystals, rolled 
oats or any other preferred cereal which can be cooked in half an 
hour. Let it cook rapidly, stirring until thick, then set it over the 
ho^wat«^ pan, cover closely, and cook as long as yon please. 



THE FKEBLESS COOE-BOOE. 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



AlDundi.DtTlIlBl 

Apple, Daleh Oaka 

" IriBl ^ 

" BImdSmgt 

Appls aiHHa tot PDlk Mill <I<HH . . 

Anpiuigiil 

BuoD, Bitaillblt 

Buua Oimpota 

" 8«iM 

Buaiiu,Baked 

" InJallr 93 

" PIcUed ..',.'.. 
B«uu, Ouuud Btrinc . . . , > 

" BbaU 

" SDtng 

BMf mod Fulu Gnwl 

" Datlltod ...'.'.'... 

" OnTTfMBout 

" NoariahlnE Omdat .... 

" Rtait, Oonj ot 

" " BlrlolooT 

" Smothoed 

" Smothend ia ToputMB . • . 

" 8[dced 

" atofled 

" Tts, Economliial 



BliqaB, Hock Ojitor . . . 

BnlniilaPoolette . . . * 

" BnuM ud Frl«l . . 

Bmd, Brown 

■' " No. 2 ... . 

*' '■ 8*at« .... 

" Flu* OnnuliMd Vfbal 

Bread, Tnfua 

" Witt ■ Sponge . . . 

CaHPuUt 

Ctks, BuuHik 

"CO 

'■ CuoUaiBl CDr OolotlDC . 
" Oom-itueb . . . , 

" Fig .'.'.'.'.'.'. 

" CUng«rb»ad, UoUt ., . 
" Sh(*l . . 

" Qcdd-and-SHnr . . . 

" Hoe 

" Udr-nDgno . . . . 

" Uuw^l 



117 



IM 



101 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 



" Plom . 

" Bonr^nui 1 

" Spmg* Dnipt with Hmuoobi 1 

■■ Tllttl-Franj Cnuu . . . . 1 

" WlrttiFnilt 1 

C>k«, Bnwiwd Cora 

" Com '.'..'. 

CikM, Fircl« 

" Hm GiM. Whwii Short 

" Qmnlnj ..,.,... 

" HuUelnTT 

" UghCCon 

" Ut. Hot T« ..... . 

" Oatmeal CHddk 

" Onnffft Bhort .,,... 

" FdWo OridiUa 

" Rica ud Oom 

" B«ur-Mllk Corn ....'. 

" BplexlSinpa I 

" Stiawben? Short .... 

■' Thin Oom 

" Turin 

OilCt Heart, or Spiced Tongne . . 

" ClBUDod Walnut .... 

" HaplB SD(*r 

" Peuut 

Caramelg, Cbooottte 

VulUi 

Catehuii, Tomato 

Celoj 




THE PEEBLESS COOK-BOOK. 





„„ 




MM 


Cnto,8onSh<n,8«ltM . . . 


. 128 


nilee>,Bri>U«lCliklnn. . . . 




Cnolten.CiOpsd 








Cnui,Ain«i* 


. B8 


nniiKiTaBt 


m 


•' Buuu Lemon JeU7 . . 


. 98 




44 




. M 






" PIUd B*tu4ui .... 






" a>i*d 


. TT 


■' " aw 






M 

. »4 








" " I.ol«tar8»ni» . . 




oti<p>,inH*t 




■' B«iM»™l.HKk»nl . . 


41 


CKiqaMMi, Chkikn 


. 07 


" " 8li»d 




















Gumnti, Pngted 






4fl 


Onrry Powaer 


. 110 


" Crimped 






. ffi 






OiuUrd, Appletcn 


" FrahOod 


«t 






" Fried Cod « Haddock . . 


4B 


D»rfMt8En.pi 


. 129 


" HeddDck Slnfled -itb Oritm 


41 






















" OjAerStaeBog 






. 31 


" Pottgdlliiekerel .... 




l>niil[W,BDtt<ir,ftHn«.nl«d . 


. 78 


" Pnpua tbr Goaklnf . . 


«B 


FniMb 




" SmnoD TlmlMlH .... 








'■ " FMltoi 


nit 






















" Stand wLih Oyibin . . . 
" SWIBdb to Baked. . . . 




En-Plut . .M. 


. T4 


M 






" ToBonel 






. 89 


" ToSUn* 


40 


^'c^iM™: ::::■. 


. U4 












. 89 






" KormtlM 


" SpuiUl 


11A 










" lnTom«o«l . . 


. 88 








. 116 

. 116 










13A 












. 116 


" V«l 


fit) 






Wt*m.*ppto 


•X 








W 






" Oel«7 


Hfl 


nilMDrQlDBrW 


. 67 


» Ohkksn 





TBK PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 



" Qi. Oorn, or Hook Ofitna 

" BaUopid' ...... 

FnOUKtlXMnlg 

" " Poulitta .... 

FiatiDg, CtHBolata 

" OdUttu 

PWn 

■' Soft 

Fronn Cmtard 

" MkMoIiu 

OuH>, nUataor 

" WIhM ..'.'.'.'.'.'. 
ma Babbit 

nbnUI, Mobt '..'.. '. '. 

" BbHt 

jsrbnad Sngir 

Oltd, FruJl BDDti 

Glict, Eil 

Onhun Pom 

OriddLMiku, 0*tm«l 

QrOQH, FtUeti of 

Gmel, Becrind FbtIdii . , , . 
" Firliu 

" FUtaMor. .'.'.'.'.'.- 

" Btk^ '.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.' 

" Spuilib BEd Eggi 

" Huaborg Steak . , , , ^ ' 
UMh 

** Coined Bsef .-...,,] 
Qud-CbwAe . ^ . ^ . . , . ] 
Uomlby . . . 



Homliij, Koirben . . 
CaltPmiMt. 



PnOt DoDte I)Ij>d« . 



fitrawberrr . 
Btnirberrl«e 



' ' Pearled Whnt . 
EidMr Sum .... 
EMiitT^ Stmd . . . 
KonileC Piitton . . . 
Umb, Leg B^hnlU of 
" thCrtole . , 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 



Mufflu, Fiitd . . . . 

" Rje ; ; 

B>iMd . . . 

Hiub, tried Coni-Msil . 

UnahtoDin 8kat4 . . . 
MnUcin, Broiled . . . 

" leg B«chiut!e Dl 

NDDrlahiDg Diih . . . 

OmeM, Brwd .... 
" Ouris'l . . . 
" Cetarj .... 

•■ Noariihlng . . 

" Salmon '. '. . 

" BantlHRi. . . 

Onloiii, StsUcped . . . 

Oj.t«r, mUt . . . . 

I " UockBbqiH '. 

" Fit .... '. 
" BtnblC . . , 

" Baked .'.'.'. 

" Derillwl ! .' '. 
" tuatj BotM . . 





121 


" Scdloped 


. . * 


















Pulrr IbF One Pi. .... 








Psuiti ShoTlake 




Pe«li«,Ilried 




Fe» la Uw Cheflng-DUi . 




PlsktedBMberriM 




He, Appte Cuetud .... 








" Meig™ 88 


■■ Ueat and Potato . . . 




'■ (K^kHlnc. 














•' No.a . . . . 




'■ Btcubenr 








Pln«ppl,To»t m 








" Tanunn 








" Cnaowd .... 










. 118 










Pot-He, Chicken 














Poulhr, To Carre .... 




Preeerra. Chipped Pw. . . . 


. IDS 


Hne-Appl» .... 


. loa 


Piidd[D[,AIMl«l.CliuloUa . 




'• AlmondCnun . . 






. at 






" B«n7 


. « 



THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 





' 


rui 




rira 


pBldliit,Bl>ckR«pt«iT, . . 




BuptnTrCharlotta 


ni 




ChhhI 


. »i 


















■' Ciimrd , . 


. 89 


SMhmoM, & BnkAat at» . . 






ColUte 




" LtgorUoiborHoltoD 


w 






. ai 










SB 


" CMton 


Tfl 












." 


Fwitt 


. 96 


■' Pomom 


ea 




I^Tllt 


. 182 


BouCSlcloiDOtBat .... 


m 




GlW 


. 80 


" Totby 


68 














tUlM 


8T 


" B*klng-Pow<U> .... 






K««k 


. Be 


















. B5 


BT«8bortuikeTout .... 


IS) 














Pl>tD. 


. B8 




n 






. 86 
. Bl 








« 


CtMm 


71 




H«m'l»Trifl» , . , 


. 90 


■' CoeumDer 


n 














'■ CmUrd . . . 


. 88 


" LotaMr 


■n 




Bupbtn; CbuLotls . 




" OtMf 






" TllflB . . 




" Pl4ln 


7H 




sup 




" Poulo 






s»t 


. 86 


■' Sindwlchai 


m 




SiriB 




" Bhplinp 






Tl-toa 


. 87 


" BiMwtbnuIi 


80 




Tyml 


. 70 












Sklmon FiIIlM 


IIH 


Pnrt,ll 


gi, UttlB L.J«r . . . 


. 132 


Suclwich S&ali 










Buidnicbu, Kgg 


i» 




Ch«tool 


. 86 


HnUrt . , 






■>rB»twlthy^*U.lileg 
otCtam. 










. 36 






QO.U 










K 


Itabbl 


<3«iii>n 


. 69 








RuebltiOjUer 








Bl 






. 116 
























. 117 






60 


Bailed Btdwd Bietd ... 








M 






. ai 






" 


Muffiru 


IB 









THE PEERLESS COOK-BOOK. 





FAtU 




FAQI 






s™p,n«™» 








. 39 


" For CoLI>ls Pudding . . 




" Moek-OyiterBW™ , 




" Froltfljrnp 






. 31 


" UatKaodndi .... 




" S^wTipioa . . . . 




" Mesdm. 






. SJ 






" SwMtOom 




" IhuUing 






. 30 


" Robert 


a) 


" TcaUoBlMVK . . . . 


. 3ft 


" Son Podding 




" wilhStoek . . . 


. 33 


■■ Tuter,Hae,ftirU.>u«JI'uti 


H 


" Turk*! 










. 31 


" Vmlson 


ra 


" White, fiwn CUr^en . . 












Skunge ud Scnmblad ^gg . . 


IM 


Bplcad Beet 


. 68 






" flnpo 


, lOT 


BoJloii FriUeis 




" BBif, 








" Tongo8orCBlf.He»rt . 


. 81 


Fttad In Bn«or . . . 




" ViMgH 
















Bpooge Drope with Muuoou . 










Shobtt, Commt 






. 68 




w 


Sqauh, SnniQier 


. 73 


Sbort-Goke, Floe Oiu. W1»M . 




Stents Bnriled 


. H 




ifi 


" BnuM 


. 6G 






" Cold, ffhattodoirith. . 








" mthOnloni 


. 56 


BhiimiK, Botlewd 






. 18 


» Crauoed 


m 


" Fowl 


. 66 


" Bculloped 


« 




. 76 




106 


Stewed Cuoumbam 


- 78 






" FIA with OTiten . . . 
■■ Kldoej. 








. 61 


" " inTomitaei . . 








Fowl 


66 




. 106 


BODp, Buked-Ban 




at«wi, A BnaklUt n«iih«iS£ . 




" Brown Stook 




" B«fwlthPeM . . . . 


. 66 






" Bruniwlck 






2T 


" MotiontotTwii .'.'.'. 




" CoDHDlIDd 


. 69 






" VmI, m FricMBee . . 












" CiWDofOmllflowB™ 


Wi 




. S3 


- Qombo 






. U 


- Gon,bowlU.Oj>t,™ 


M 


SlufflDg fin Baked Flab. . . . 


a 



THE PEEBLESS COOK-BOOK. 





FA« 




rtat 


etufflngforOTitw .... 


. . 4S 


TiUs, PImppla 


aa 






" B«pb«TT , 




ewntApplaBumd. . . . 

" Cora Bonp 






. . St 


■' BnSBi .-- 




" D>M C™ 


. . 73 


Tortoy 4 1* rSlMB 


127 




. . 72 




(0 


" PDt.l«. 


. . 70 




67 




. . 60 








. . BO 


TumoTfT, Lhdoo 


81 




. . flO 






" H«n«d . , . . 


















. . 80 


- Mello- 




■tM».Xt*pbtnj 












V=ij^ft M ■ ■ ' 




" KdbIu 






Tamphi.lfMk 












" Sn^iwr o«kM . . . . 

Vioeeiir gplMd 

lV.ftn, GlngM 








110 ^ 
100 


" Craun 


. . sa 




. . Z2 










'• T»»Md,-itl>H«iuUda 


130 


















Tonuio, B«f Sootbnwl to . 








































iroBgM, Onmrf 


. . las 


York^iln Poddlni 


. St 



ate^ 






1,. 



LJ 



