
FRENCH w 

K'FOR AMERICAN HOAF 



T 



Lb 



/« 



ftp*-.' n T? 



French Cookery for 
American Homes 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2010 



http://www.archive.org/details/frenchcookeryforOOnewy 



FRENCH COOKERY 

for 
AMERICAN HOMES 



634 RECIPES OF SIMPLE 
AND EASY DISHES 




NEW YORK 

A. WESSELS COMPANY 
1901 



CONTENTS, 



A FEW HINTS TO COOKS 
SOUPS 

MAIGRES SOUPS (WITHOUT MEAT) 

DRY SOUPS 
GRAVIES 
FISH . 
BEEF . 
MUTTON 
LAMB . 
VEAL . 

POULTRY AND GAME . 
EGGS AND FARINACEOUS DISHES 
VEGETABLES .... 

SALADS 

PUDDINGS 

SOUFFLES 

FRITTERS 

SWEET DISHES .... 
COMPOTES DE FRUITS 

b 



PAGE 

vii 

I 

12 
19 



58 

77 
S4 
87 
108 
141 
'57 
■S3 
186 
192 
201 
208 



VI CONTENTS. 




CREAMS AND JF.LI.IES 


. 218 


PASTRY 


• 234 


PASTE MADE WITH DOUGH 


• 239 


SPONGE CAKES 


• ^43 


CAKES 


• =53 


INDEX 


265 



A FEW HINTS TO COOKS. 



To those cooks who are desirous to accomplish their by no 
means unimportant work in a satisfactory and conscientious 
manner, and who at the same time are not very experienced 
in cooking, I should advise them before attempting to try 
any of the recipes contained in this work to read them first 
carefully through, particularly all directions given for pre- 
paring fat for frying, for making stocks for soups and 
gravies, for thickening for sauce, &c. I venture to say that 
if a cook carefully begins by preparing her provision of 
gravy, thickening, bread-crumbs plain and baked, clarified 
butter, and spices, — by keeping all these things cool, clean, 
and sweet, and neatly at hand to be taken down at a 
moment's notice, the actual preparation of the various 
dishes will be comparative child's play. When none of 
these things are kept in reserve the cook gets flurried, 
the ingredients for the dishes are wasted, and the results 
are generally lamentable. When fresh herbs are not ob- 
tainable, bottles of dried herbs can always be at hand ; 
but nothing can replace fresh parsley, and that is never 
missing. Potato-flour must always be kept in the event of 
thickening being needed at the last moment ; ordinary flour 
is most unwholesome unless a long time is allowed for 
cooking it. 

With very few exceptions, all the recipes given in this 
book will be found so simple and easy that a cook who has 
interest in her work will feel pleasure and no trouble in 
trying one or two daily, even without a kitchen-maid, if all 



vii! A FEW HINTS TO COOKS. 

the above instructions are carried out. Let attention be 
given to the sauces, and, above all, see that they are made in 
the morning, poured into a large jam-pot, and when wanted 
warmed by placing the pot in a shallow saucepan of boiling 
water. In kitchens where the latest and most expensive 
appliances are to be found a bain-marie would be among 
them, but I am writing for ordinary households and for 
kitchens which are stocked with the simplest and most 
elementary utensils. 

Wine is frequently recommended in the recipes. I have 
quoted it because I have seen it used in the different dishes, 
and it being quite a custom on the Continent ; but, with 
perhaps one or two exceptions, I firmly believe the omission 
of it would in no way spoil the flavour of the article. 
Where economy is an object do not fail to substitute New 
Zealand mutton for cutlets in place of the English. I think 
it would be more correct to say, pay for foreign mutton and 
not for English, as so many people do the contrary and get 
the foreign all the same ; but considering the amount of 
waste to be found on a neck, breast, and shoulder of 
mutton, it is cruel to pay those prices for it. I will not 
say the same when legs and saddles are in question ; if you 
can be certain they are English, by all means buy them. 
The American beef is excellent ; the fillets and rump 
steaks can be procured for nd. a pound, and nothing 
belter could be desired. 



A FEW HINTS TO COOKS. ix 

DIRECTIONS (Various). 

Fat and Dripping and Butter for frying purposes. 

To clarify fat put it into a large stewpan with a third of 
its height of water ; let it boil upon a moderate fire, moving 
and stirring frequently until the water and all moisture 
have evaporated and the fat has become quite clear ; but it 
must not take colour. At this point turn it through a sieve 
into a clean vessel. When this is to be used for frying, 
take great care it is sufficiently hot for the purpose. 
Throw in a small piece of bread-crumb : if it becomes 
crisp, the fat is at the right point of heat ; if the bread 
remains soft and damp, the fat is not hot enough. When 
it has attained its highest degree of heat, a light smoke 
rises on the surface. Lard and suet are melted in the 
same manner, the suet to be skinned and cut in small 
pieces. Butter is melted by cooking it over a gentle fire 
(without water) until it becomes sufficiently clear to allow 
the bottom of the stewpan to be seen. Let it get half cold, 
then strain it into a jar. 

The fat used for frying must be used for no other 
purpose, but the same fat will serve many times. Each 
time it must be passed through a fine sieve into a clean 
pan ; in this manner it will always be ready for use. After 
serving a very long time the fat will become too deep a 
colour and burnt, then it must be thrown away. Naturally 
the fat used for fish must be kept only for that purpose, 
but fritters (sweet) and beignets of all kinds may be fried 
in the same fat as that used for meat dishes ; the great heat 
to which it is subjected renders it tasteless. 

If before cooking cutlets the superfluous fat is carefully 
cut away, it is most useful for melting down. The dripping 
from joints of mutton (beef dripping is sufficiently valuable 
to keep separate : it makes excellent pastry, and is good 
for many purposes), from the top of soups — all is good 



X A FEW HINTS TO COOKS. 

towards forming the necessary pan of fat indispensable when 
good cooking is desired. When fat is bought expressly for 

the purpose, beef suet is the best. 

Bread-crumbs 

[Panure). 

Take stale white bread ; put it in a clean tea-cloth 
(rather strong) ; rub it briskly to reduce it to powder ; 
pass it through a wire sieve. 

Baked Bread-crumbs 

(Pamire shhe mi chapclure). 

They can be obtained either by grating crusts of bread 

or by drying bread in a gentle oven, then reducing them 
to powder by pounding them or crushing them with a 
rolling-pin. 

Bouquet of Herbs. 

Mention is frequently made in the following recipes <>f 
a bouquet of herbs : it is made by tying together parsley, 
bay-leaf, marjoram, and thyme ; but do not arrange them 
as you would a bunch of flowers : press them all neatly 
and lightly together into as small a compass as possible, 
then securely fasten with string in a manner that will allow 
no leaf to detach itself. 

Caramel. 

It is useful to have a little caramel always at hand, 
and a good careful cook would know better than to 
abuse the use of it. Put it into a bottle and make some 
incisions lengthwise in the cork to enable the caramel to 
pass through it only in very small quantities, which is pre- 
ferable to taking the cork out and dashing an unknown 
quantity into the dish in question. 

To make Caramel. — Put l /^ lb. of sugar, either in lumps or 



A FEW HINTS TO COOKS. XI 

powder, into a small pan or vessel of any kind, with two 
dessert-spoonfuls of water ; place over a moderate fire ; stir 
frequently ; let the sugar become a dark brown colour. 
Then throw in a tumblerful of cold water ; boil for fifteen 
minutes ; pass through a fine sieve and bottle. 

Vanilla Sugar. 

It is most useful as well as economical to keep a bottle 
filled with vanilla sugar — that is, about half a stick of 
vanilla pounded fine and mixed with i lb. of sugar. 

Observe and read carefully the recipes for gravies (No. 
56), for thickening (No. 58), for glaze (61), for adding 
eggs to sauces (63). 

When the few facts contained in these directions are 
mastered, and the few articles made and kept at hand, then 
I feel convinced no difficulty whatever will attend the 
preparation of the various dishes. 

THE COMPILER. 



COOKERY BOOK. 



SOUPS. 



1. Stock for Clear Soup. 

Let the meat be very fresh; it is best cut from the neck 
and back, called sticking. Soup to be good should never 
be made from shin of beef; it is gelatinous, but has no 
real nourishment in it, nor does it give gravy. For good 
clear soup take i lb. of meat to each pint of water. When a 
pale, beautiful-coloured stock is desired, two-thirds of the 
meat should be cut from the knuckle of veal, one-third 
from the sticking of beef; the meat to be cut in small 
pieces the size of a square inch, every particle of gristle, 
fat, and bone to be removed; of course the meat to be 
prepared before it is weighed. 

Put it in cold water, and bring it very gently and gradu- 
ally to boil. After it has simmered for two hours and the 
scum carefully removed as it rises, add the vegetables— 
1/ lb mixed vegetables to every pound of meat, carrot 
turnip, celery, leek, onion, thyme, marjoram one bay-leat, 
a few whole cloves to be stuck in an onion, a little cayenne 
salt, one lump of sugar, a little mace. The soup must not 
cook longer than four hours in all, as it would lose its 



2 SOUPS. 

delicate flavour. It can be cleared like a jelly with the 
whites of eggs : on the Continent l / 2 lb. of ox-liver is used 
for the purpose ; it is boiled in the soup from the com- 
mencement. 

2. To clear the Stock. 

A good way to clear soup. Take for 3 quarts of 
stock ^ lb. raw beef without fat or gristle, put it in a 
stewpan with two whites of eggs, then add the cold stock. 
Put the stewpan on the fire ; bring it to boil, stirring all 
the time to avoid the meat sticking to bottom of pan. Let 
it cook slowly at the side of the fire for fifteen to twenty 
minutes. Pass through a strainer. In this case omit liver. 

3. Clear Soup a la Printaniere 

(Consomme" a la printaniere). 

Clear soup with a garnish of spring vegetables, green 
peas, asparagus points, French beans (cut in diamonds), 
carrot and turnip (cut in fancy shapes) ; cooked separately 
and added to it. 

4. Ambassadress Soup 

(Consomme a Vambassadrice). 

Clear soup garnished with plover's eggs, shredded lettuce, 
chervil that has been blanched. 

5. Julienne Soup 

(Consomme" a la julienne). 

Prepare a small spring cabbage, the best part of a fresh 
cos lettuce, three carrots, one turnip, one onion, the whites 
of three leeks. Shred the cabbage and lettuce as fine as 
possible ; cut the other vegetables in thin slices, then divide 
these slices again into fine shreds. Reduce 1 y 2 oz. of butter 
to oil in a stewpan, with a teaspoonful of fine sugar (white). 



soups. 3 

Add the vegetables ; keep them covered, and let them 
simmer until all the humidity is reduced. Add 2 1 /, quarts 
of clear soup ; leave to simmer until tender. 

Note. — Many cooks add the vegetables raw to the clear 
soup, or else boil them previously in water. The former 
method is extravagant, as it reduces unnecessarily the good 
stock ; the latter is unsatisfactory in its results. 

6. Fowl Soup 

(Potage de volatile). 

Take for six persons one good fat fowl ; set on the fire 
in cold water ; skim continually ; cook slowly three or four 
hours. Pour the broth through a hair-sieve ; let it stand ; 
take the fat off; put in a stewpan one table-spoonful of 
flour, 2 oz. of good butter ; stir over the fire until of a pale 
yellow colour. Pour the soup in gradually Beat up two 
or three yolks of eggs, one teacupful of cream, add little by 
little to the warm soup ; serve. 

7. German Soup 

(Soupe allemande). 

Cut 2 lb. of beef into small dice ; prepare flour and 
butter as in the above soup (No. 6) ; lay in the meat, a 
small chopped onion, carrot, and stick of celery ; stir for 
some time ; pour in as much boiling water as required ; 
cover tightly ; let it cook one hour ; pour through a sieve, 
serve with the celery cut in shreds in the soup, and the 
following balls, called by the Germans klose. Take 1 oz. 
of butter, one egg, and two dessert-spoonfuls of flour ; mix 
all into a very loose paste. Season with salt, a very little 
cayenne, mace, and the smallest pinch of nutmeg. Drop 
this mixture into the boiling soup, a teaspoonful at a time. 
Eight minutes will cook them. 



4 SOUPS. 

8. Vegetable Soup (cheap and nourishing) 

(Soupe aux ligumes). 

Two quarts of water, 2 lb. of lean mutton, 1 lb. shin of 
beef, one head of celery, three leeks, four potatoes, four 
tomatoes, parsley, one table-spoonful of salt, two turnips, 
two carrots. The soup to be boiled and skimmed before 
adding vegetables ; the latter to be cut up fine. One table- 
spoonful of well-washed rice to be added. The shin may 
be boiled to rags ; the mutton to be left whole, and only to 
be boiled sufficiently tender for eating. 



9 Ox-foot Soup 
(Soupe de pied de bai/f). 

Well wash the foot ; put in a stewpan with 3 quarts of 
water and one table-spoonful of salt; let it boil; skim; 
boil slowly for six hours. After skimming strain through 
a cullender into a basin. Let it get cold, then take off all 
fat, and put it back into a saucepan. Prepare two carrots, 
three leeks, two turnips, one small head of celery, and four 
tomatoes. When the soup has boiled, put in the vege- 
tables cut in pieces, and a penny packet of pea-flour 
mixed smooth in a little cold water ; simmer for at least 
thirty minutes, stirring from time to time. Add a little 
saffron (to prepare which take as much as will lie on a 
threepenny-piece, place it in clean paper for a few seconds 
in the oven, then rub it through a hair sieve) ; pepper and 
salt to taste ; strain. 

The flesh of the foot makes a nice dish. Put into a 
stewpan with half a cupful of the soup before the vegetables 
are added, four good-sized tomatoes, skinned and squeezed 
to divest of superfluous pips and moisture ; stew all slowly 
for fifteen minutes. A clove of garlic is a great improve- 
ment, but doubtless would not meet with the approval of 
English palates. 



soups. 5 

10. Tomato Soup 

(Soupe anx iomates). 

Cut up a dozen good-sized tomatoes (unpeeled) ; put 
them in a stewpan with a sliced Spanish onion and a table- 
spoonful of the best olive-oil ; cook gently until well 
reduced ; pass through a hair-sieve ; add good stock until 
of proper consistency. At the moment of serving flavour 
with lemon-juice and cayenne pepper. 

11. Chicken Broth for Invalids 

{Bouillon de fioulet). 

Cut off the flesh from a fowl ; steam it and pass it through 
a sieve. Break all the bones into small pieces ; put them 
into a stone jar with sufficient water to cover them, and 
add a pinch of salt Place the jar in a large saucepan 
of water (boiling) ; let it boil twenty- four hours. Keep the 
pounded flesh either to eat separately or to add to broth if 
desired. 

12. Pot-au-feu. 

French pot-au-feu for six persons. The best pieces of 
meat for this soup are cut from the brisket, top ribs, or 
that piece which when salted is called the silver side. 

Take 3 lb. of beef, 1 lb. of bones, and a piece of ox-liver 
(y 2 lb.) Remove the bones from the meat and tie it up to 
keep it in shape. Place the meat and bones in a saucepan 
with five quarts of cold water and a good pinch of salt. 
Place the saucepan on the fire and bring it slowly to the 
boil ; before it boils all the scum that rises must be carefully 
taken off; after it has boiled throw in a ladleful of cold 
water ; should more scum rise take it off as before. After 
it boils place the saucepan on one side where there is 
sufficient heat to cook it gently, then add four medium-sized 
carrots, two turnips, four leeks split lengthwise and tied 
together in one bunch, a head of celery, an onion stuck with 



6 SOUPS. 

cloves (it improves the colour of the soup to colour the 
onion by leaving it for a few seconds in the oven). Let 
all cook slowly for three or four hours. If the meat is not 
to be eaten it can be left to simmer another hour and a 
half, which will naturally make the soup stronger. When 
finished take the grease off carefully. Pass through a fine 
hair-sieve. If the meat is to be sent to table serve it in an 
oblong dish, surrounded by the vegetables which have been 
boiled with it, placing them round in groups, and varying 
the colours. An old fowl, failing which, a few legs of fowls, 
impart a delicious flavour to the soup. Serve piquantc 
sauce (No. 86) with the meat 

13. Veal Stock 
{Bouillon de veait) 

Veal is used much less for soups than beef; it is much 
less nutritious. It is very useful in making thick soups, and 
naturally where a pale colour is preferred. 

Put in a saucepan 2 lb. from the knuckle of veal and 1 
ib. of the bones well broken ; add three quarts of cold 
water — it must be sufficient to cover all — and a pinch of 
salt. Bring it to the boil, skimming when necessary. Add 
two medium-sized carrots, an onion stuck with two cloves, 
and a small bouquet composed of a laurel leaf, parsley, 
and thyme tied together. Let all simmer two hours. Pass 
through a fine sieve. 

14. Jerusalem Artichoke Soup 

{Purtc d'artiehauis). 

Wash and peel the artichokes. Cut them in slices and 
boil in a little stock until soft. Pass through a fine sieve, 
then reduce to the desired consistency with the above veal 
stock. Taste if sufficiently seasoned with salt ; before 
serving add a cupful of cream. Send to table with fried 
(roiitons of bread (see No. 33). 



soups. 7 

15. Stock for Soups 

(Bouillon). 

For ordinary soups something less expensive than the 
recipe given for clear soup can be made in the following 
manner : Take the meat from the back or sticking of beef, 
i y 2 pint or quart of water to the pound of meat. Prepare 
and flavour with vegetables as in clear soup, but let it sim- 
mer until all the goodness is entirely gone from the meat, 
when it is only fit to be thrown away. It is not necessary 
to clear this soup unless desired. 

16. Common Economical Stock. 

In large or even small families it will be found most 
advantageous to keep a large saucepan called a digester 
continually on the stove. In it can be thrown the bones 
from the joints chopped very small, trimmings cut from 
joints, chops, or steaks before cooking. No vegetables 
must be added, as they would turn it sour. Some cooks 
who need a little stock or gravy for a hash to be eaten for 
lunch put on the mutton bone an hour before for that pur- 
pose ; the trouble might be spared and water used with 
equal results. Hours are needed of gentle simmering to 
get all the nourishment from bones. Stock made in this 
manner is good for thick soups, vegetable soups, and for 
gravies. Let it be kept in a cool place, and if there be 
any fear of it turning sour boil it up frequently and pour 
it into a clean basin. 

17. Concentrated Beef-tea. 

Take i lb. of freshly killed juicy beef (on no account 
must it be from the shin), remove all fat, and shred it 
finely. Put it into a jar or bottle which can be hermetic- 
ally fastened and close it. Place this in a stewpan with 
cold water to cover the jar or bottle two-thirds ; bring to 
the boil, and simmer slowly from three to four hours. 



8 soups. 

Then strain through a fine cloth, squeezing the beef 
lightly to extract all the juice. Allow it to stand for a 
short time, that any sediment may settle, then pour into 
a cup for the patient. 

18. Soups of various Italian Pastes 
{Potage aux pates d'llalie). 

Vermicelli, macaroni (the latter from Naples is far 
superior to that from Genoa), and all kinds of small pastes, 
can be cooked in the same manner. 

Throw 6 oz. of the paste into boiling water with a good 
pineh of salt (the quantity of water must be quite 3 pints) ; 
let them cook five minutes ; drain them in a sieve, then 
pass cold water over them quickly. Put them back in a 
saucepan with 2^ quarts of stock; let all cook slowly for 
fifteen minutes. Grated Parmesan cheese is a decided 
improvement served with these soups. Macaroni must 
be cut in smail pieces. 

19. Tapioca Soup 

{Potage au tapioca). 

Three oz. small tapioca are sufficient for 2 x / 2 quarts of 
stock. Let the stock boil, then drop in the tapioca gently 
and gradually, stirring incessantly for five minutes to pre- 
vent the tapioca forming into lumps; let it cook gently 
for ten minutes longer. Before serving remove the skin 
which forms at the top. 

20. Semolina Soup 

{Potage a la semoule). 

Throw 3 y 2 oz. semolina into 2^ quarts of boiling soup, 
stirring all the time. Semolina should be thrown in like 
falling rain. Let all cook fifteen minutes. Serve with 
grated cheese. 



soups. 9 

21. Thick Semolina Soup 

(Potage semoule). 

Prepare the soup exactly as above, then beat up the 
yolks of two eggs, and add them to the soup in the 
manner indicated in No. 6. 

22. Rice Soup 

{Potage au riz). 

Wash ^ lb. of rice ; put it on the fire with 3 pints of 
boiling water and a pinch of salt. Boil for ten minutes ; 
drain ; pour cold water through it. Put the rice back in 
the saucepan with 3 pints of good soup ; let it cook gently 
twenty-five to thirty minutes. Serve with grated Parmesan 
cheese. 

23. Thick Rice Soup 

{Potage au riz). 

Wash % lb. of rice ; throw it into 3 quarts of boiling 
soup ; let it cook three-quarters of an hour, stirring fre- 
quently. The rice should be well cooked. When ready 
to serve have ready in the tureen two yolks of eggs with a 
half small tumbler of milk and a pinch of nutmeg ; throw 
the soup in, stirring briskly. Instead of eggs and milk a 
glass of cream may be added. 

24. Pearl-barley Soup 

{Potage orge perli). 

Melt in a saucepan a piece of butter the size of an egg ; 
add l /{ lb. of finest pearl-barley and a table-spoonful of flour. 
Stir a few seconds over a slow fire ; moisten with 3 quarts 
of stock (veal stock preferable), and stir uninterruptedly until 
it boils. Let it cook three-quarters of an hour ; skim off 
the skin which rises to the surface ; salt it. Have ready in 
the tureen 1 gill of cream or 1 oz. of fresh butter ; pour the 
soup in, stirring briskly all the time. 



IO SOUPS. 

25. Thick Barley Soup 

(Polagc creme d'orge). 

Half a pound of large pearl barley, a table-spoonful of 
flour ; put both on a slow fire for a few seconds with i j4 
oz. of butter. Add three quarts of good veal stock (cold) 
and a pinch of salt. Bring to the boil, stirring all the 
time. Let it boil two hours, adding stock if it becomes 
too thick. Pass the soup through a hair-sieve, pressing 
it well. Put it back on the fire to heat, and add more 
stock if too thick. Taste if it is sufficiently salted, and 
finish as the above (No. 24) with 1 gill of cream or 1 oz. 
of butter in the tureen. Serve with fried crodtons of bread 
(see No. 33). 

26. Crayfish Soup 

{Potage Bisque). 

Take three dozen of the smallest crayfish, wash them ; 
put them in a saucepan with a large onion, a sliced carrot, 
a bouquet of laurel-leaf, parsley, and thyme, a pinch of salt, 
one of pepper, and a little white wine. Cover the saucepan, 
and let all cook for ten minutes, shaking the pan occasion- 
ally. When cooked, separate the tails from the bodies ; skin 
the former carefully without breaking, and put them on one 
side on a plate. Take the flesh out of the bodies ; pound 
it well, moistening it with some of the liquor the fish has 
been boiled in. Pass through a fine sieve or tammy-cloth, 
and keep this puree. (With the skins of the tails, the 
empty bodies, and the claws make lobster butter.) (See 
No. 27.) Make a white sauce with 2^ oz. of butter, 
the same of flour ; moisten with three pints of stock and 
the liquor the fish has been boiled in. Stir over the fire 
until boiling. Cook ten to fifteen minutes, skimming very 
carefully, and add the puree of the fish. Pass through a 
hair-sieve ; re-heat the soup, but do not boil. Taste if it 
be sufficiently salted — it should neither be too thick nor 
too thin ; add a sprinkle of cayenne, and finish by mixing 
in the lobster butter (No. 27). 



SOUPS. u 

27. Lobster or Crayfish Butter 
(Beurre dVcrevisses). 

Pound in the mortar the tails, claws, and empty bodies of 
the fish, adding during the pounding (little by little) 2 oz. 
of fresh butter. Put this paste into a saucepan ; let it take 
colour for an instant on the fire. Moisten with two tum- 
blerfuls of water, and cook ten minutes. Pass it through a 
white cloth stretched over a basin half full of cold water. 
Twist the cloth at both ends in order to squeeze out all the 
butter. Carefully take it off, as it rises to the surface of 
the water. 

Note. — Bisque soup is a favourite one in Paris, but is 
little known in England. It is doubtless expensive and 
takes time to prepare ; but well made, it would amply repay 
the expense and trouble. If crayfish cannot be procured, 
prawns may be substituted, but naturally in that case the 
expense would be much increased. 

28. Mock Turtle Soup 

(Poi 'age fait sse lortue). 

Take half a calf's head, wash it well, take out the bones, 
and let it drain. Blanch it by putting it on the fire in cold 
water, and leaving it until it boils. Take it out ; pour 
cold water over it ; put it back in the saucepan with suffi- 
cient cold water to cover it completely, and a pinch of salt. 
Let it boil ; skim ; add a tumbler of white wine, one carrot, 
onion stuck with three cloves, a bouquet of parsley, laurel, 
and thyme. Let it cook two hours. Take out the head ; 
remove all the gristle from the ears. Place the pieces upon 
a cloth ; then press them between two flat dishes with a 
weight on the top until cold. Strain the soup ; place 
it on one side. Put 3 oz. of butter into a clean sauce- 
pan ; colour in it 1 oz. of ham or lean bacon, one onion, 
one sliced carrot ; add 2 oz. of flour ; stir continually. 
Let this take a pale golden tint ; moisten with two-thirds 
of the liquor in which the head has been boiled and 2 



12 MAIGRHS SOUPS (WITHOUT MEAT). 

quarts of stock. Bring to the boil, still stirring ; add a 
small stick of celery, a bouquet of parsley, thyme, marjoram, 
laurel-leaf, bay-leaf, and 10 grains whole pepper. Let it 
simmer one hour on the corner of the stove, frequently 
skimming and taking off the grease. The soup should 
have reduced one-third, and must be very smooth. Cut 
up the head in squares about ^ inch in size ; put them 
in another saucepan with the remainder of the liquor it 
was cooked in (about two glasses) and the same quantity 
of wine, madeira or marsala. Reduce one-half; pass the 
soup over this through a fine sieve; season to taste with 
salt and a pinch of cayenne. 



MAIGRES SOUPS (WITHOUT MEAT). 

29. Bread Soup 

{Soupe au pain). 

Cut in small square pieces (crumb and crust) y 2 lb. of 
bread ; colour them on the fire for two minutes in i oz. of 
butter; moisten with 3 quarts of water; a pinch of salt. 
Let it cook thirty minutes. Beat up the soup with an egg- 
whisk to reduce the bread to a puree. Have ready two 
yolks of aggs, a wine-glass of milk, a pinch (very small) of 
nutmeg, and 1 oz. of fresh butter ; throw this into the soup. 
Of course eggs, milk, and butter must be well beaten and 
quite smooth. The soup must not be allowed to boil after 
this is added. 

30. Onion Soup 

(Soupe a Poignoti). 

Slice or chop two medium-sized onions ; let them colour 
an instant in 1 oz. of butter ; add a table-spoonful of flour ; 
make a brown thickening. The onions must on no account 
be allowed to burn. Add i x /> quarts of water, salt, and a 
pinch of pepper ; stir on the fire until it boils ; let it cook 



MAIGRES SOUPS (WITHOUT MEAT). 1 3 

five minutes. Cut some slices of bread very fine (like a 
leaf) ; dry them in an open oven. Place in the tureen a 
layer of bread, a layer of grated cheese, until the tureen is 
half full. Pass the soup through a sieve into the tureen. 
Must allow a few minutes to well soak the bread ; at the 
same time the soup must not be allowed to get cold. If 
onions are not objected to do not strain them off. 

31. Soldiers' Soup 

(Soupe a la bataille). 

Wash well and chop fine a small white cabbage or lettuce 
(cos preferred), one carrot, one turnip, three leeks, one head 
of celery. Let these vegetables take colour for about three 
minutes in 2 oz. of good fat or butter. Add 3 quarts of 
water and a pinch of salt ; let it boil. Add five raw potatoes 
cut like the vegetables, a handful of green French beans 
cut up, the same quantity of green peas. Cook over a 
good fire for two hours. The soup should be quite 
smooth ; if it is not so, beat it well with a whisk ; if too 
much reduced add more water. Season to taste ; at the 
last add a little chopped chervil. A bone of ham or the 
remains of bacon improve this soup immensely. 

32. Velvet Soup 

(Potage velours). 

Melt gradually 3 oz. of butter in a stewpan ; mix with it 
the same quantity of flour ; stir for an instant on the fire, 
but do not take colour. Moisten with 2y 2 quarts of veal- 
broth if available ; if not, beef stock. Stir continually 
until it commences to boil — the egg-whisk is the best for 
the purpose. Let it cook gently for ten minutes, carefully 
skimming all the skin that rises to the surface ; season ; 
prepare three yolks of eggs with half a teacupful of cream 
or milk ; beat them well together ; put them in the tureen ; 
add 1 oz. of best fresh butter and a pinch of nutmeg. Pour 



14 MAIGKES SOUPS (WITHOUT MEAT). 

the soup gently over this mixture, stirring all the time. 
Serve with crofitons of fried bread. 

Note. — A few leaves of fresh spinach, well washed and 
pounded in a mortar and squeezed through a tammy-cloth, 
make a pretty change of colour for the velours soup. 

33. Croutons of Fried Bread for Soups. 

Cut two slices from a square loaf — they must be from 
% to }i inch in thickness ; divide these slices into small 
squares the size of a large pea ; fry them in a little butter 
in a small frying-pan — they must be quite crisp and of a 
golden colour. Throw them in the soup the last moment. 

34. Flemish Soup 

(Potage Flamand). 

One lb. of Brussels sprouts trimmed and washed ; throw 
them into boiling water, salted, and cook until they are 
tender. Drain and toss them for an instant in i oz. of 
butter ; add three yolks of eggs ; mash all up ; pass 
through a hair -sieve. Have ready 2% quarts of the 
velvet soup (No. 32), not too thick and without the eggs; 
add to it the puree or thickening of Brussels sprouts ; heat 
to the right point without allowing it to come to the boil. 
When the puree is being added to the soup all must be 
briskly stirred, and the stirring continued until the soup is 
poured out 

35. Hare Soup 

{Potage au liev re). 

Cut the hare in pieces, leaving the shoulders whole, the 
thighs in two, the fillet in three or four slices, the head 
split in two. Put in a large stewpan }{ lb. of butter, 3 
oz. of lean ham or bacon cut in squares, one carrot, one 
sliced onion ; colour all for an instant ; add the pieces of 
hare ; season with salt and pepper, and let all take colour 
gently. Sprinkle over three table-spoonfuls of flour; add 



MAIGRES SOUPS (WITHOUT MEAT). 1 5 

4 quarts of beef or veal stock ; let it boil, stirring all the 
time. The soup should then be quite smooth. Add a 
bouquet of laurel, thyme, and parsley, and ^ pint of white 
or red wine, according to taste. Let it simmer for an 
hour, skimming frequently ; it must reduce quite a third. 
At this point pass the soup through a fine sieve into a 
clean saucepan ; choose the best parts of the hare, trim 
them and put them in the tureen ; pound all the rest in a 
mortar, moistening them with a little stock ; pass it through 
a sieve or tammy, and add this puree to the soup. Warm 
without allowing it to boil ; pour into the tureen. 

Note. — Chopped mushrooms and quenelles can be added 
to this soup. 

36. Quenelles for Soup. 

Take n oz. of veal, y± lb. of butter, y£ lb. of panada 
(see note at end of recipe), four yolks, two whole eggs, 
salt, pepper, nutmeg. Take away all skin and nerves from 
the veal ; pound fine in a mortar with a yolk of egg. Put 
the cold panada in the mortar ; add by degrees the butter 
and meat, still pounding. When all is mixed add seasoning 
and the eggs one by one ; see if sufficiently seasoned ; if 
not firm enough add a little flour in the yolk of an egg. 

Note for Panada. — Two table-spoonfuls of flour, 2 oz. of 
butter, yolk of an egg, cupful of water or milk, a piece of 
butter size of a walnut, salt ; put the butter in the stewpan ; 
add flour, egg, and salt ; mix all well with the milk ; place 
upon a slow fire and turn continually until it becomes a 
thick paste without lumps and detaches itself easily from 
the bottom of the pan. Spread on a plate to become cold 
to add to the quenelles. 

37. Cabbage Soup 

(Soupe aux choux). 

Take a medium-sized cabbage, wash well, and cut it in 
halves, removing the stalk. Slice or chop it not too small, 
and colour for two or three minutes in i oz. of butter or 



l6 MAIGRES SOUPS (WITHOUT MEAT). 

fat. Add 3 quarts of water; salt; let it boil; add five or 
six sliced potatoes ; let it cook for an hour on a good fire. 
The vegetables should by that time be well cooked and the 
soup smooth ; if it is not so, beat with the whisk. Make 
it the desired consistency by adding water; boil up again; 
season to taste, and throw into the tureen, into which some 
slices of bread have been already laid. A ham-bone, or the 
smallest piece of bacon or sausage, improves the flavour of 
this soup considerably. 

38. Cabbage Soup with Rice 

{Soupe aux choux avec riz). 

Made like the cabbage soup, simply substituting ^ lb. 
rice for the potatoes. 

39. Leek Soup 

{Soupe aux poireaux). 

Split lengthwise five or six leeks, skinned and well 
washed, and cut them in pieces about an inch. Put them 
on the fire in butter — they must not be allowed to take 
colour ; moisten with 2 y 2 quarts of water ; salt ; cook for 
three-quarters of an hour. Pour into the tureen over slices 
of bread. 

40. Potato Soup 
{Soupe aux pomines dc terre). 

Made exactly the same as cabbage soup, omitting the 
slices of bread. 

41. Haricot Bean Soup 
{Soupe aux haricots blancs). 

Steep 7 oz. of the small white haricot beans in cold 
water (over-night). Put them in a saucepan with 3 quarts 
of cold water, a pinch of salt, and an onion stuck with three 
cloves. They must cook a long time covered. When the 



MAIGRES SOUPS (WITHOUT MEAT). 17 

haricots are nearly soft take out the onion, add 3 oz. of 
rice well washed and 1 ^ oz. of butter or fat ; continue to 
let all simmer until the soup is quite smooth. 

42. Turnip Soup 

(Soupe aux navels). 

Cut into thin strips two or three turnips ; put them 
on the fire an instant in 1 ^ oz. of fat or butter ; moisten 
with a sufficient quantity of water ; cook three-quarters of 
an hour. Spread on a tin some slices of bread (thin) ; 
sprinkle them with some grated cheese ; put them in the 
oven for an instant ; when the cheese commences to melt 
take them out, lay them in the bottom of the tureen, pour 
the soup over. 

43. Pumpkin Soup 
{Soupe a la courge). 

Cut into pieces 1 y 2 lb. of pumpkin ; put them into 
a saucepan to cook with 1 oz. of butter, two tumblers 
of water, pinch of salt, one of pepper ; when all is soft, 
pass through a sieve or tammy-crbth. Thin down with 
milk to the desired consistency ; season to taste ; add a 
pinch of fine white sugar ; boil. Pour the soup over fried 
croiitons of bread (see No. 33). 

44. Oatmeal Soup 
{Soupe au gruau). 

Half a pound of fine oatmeal ; place on the fire with 2 
quarts of cold water, one carrot, 1 oz. of butter ; cook for 
two hours, stirring frequently, and as it thickens add water. 
When the oatmeal is well cooked pass through a sieve ; put 
back the puree in the saucepan ; make it the desired con- 
sistency with water, or milk and water ; boil ; season ; when 
in the tureen stir in 1 oz. of fresh butter. 

Half a pound of veal cut up and boiled in this soup 
before it is put through the sieve makes it delicions. 



1 8 MAIGRES SOUPS (WITHOUT MEAT), 

45. Fish Soup 

(Soupe au poissoii). 

Slice up one onion, one carrot, some celery, the 
heart of a lettuce, some sprigs of parsley; moisten with 
3 quarts of water ; add salt, pepper, and two cloves, i lb. 
of well-washed fish (any fish will do except mackerel or 
salmon) ; cook for three-quarters of an hour ; strain the soup, 
add a little saffron if liked, and throw into the tureen over 
slices of grilled bread. To prepare saffron see No. 9. 

46. Milk Soup 

{Soupe au /ait). 

Boil 2^ quarts of milk ; salt lightly. Take some slices 
of bread cut fine ; sprinkle them with fine sugar ; place 
them on a tin in the oven to take a golden tint ; place 
them in the tureen ; throw over the boiling milk. Three 
or four yolks of eggs well beaten and added are an im- 
provement. The soup must not boil after adding the eggs. 

47. Sorrel Soup 

(Soupe a Voseille). 

Take a good handful of sorrel ; take off all the stalks ; 
wash the leaves in two waters ; chop them up (not small). 
Melt i 1 /, oz. of butter; add the sorrel; stir it until all 
moisture has evaporated. Add a dessert-spoonful of flour ; 
stir well until all is mixed. Add 2^ quarts of water, a 
pinch of salt, one of sugar ; stir well over the fire ; let it 
cook ten minutes. Prepare two or three yolks of eggs with 
a wine-glassful of milk ; add to the soup without allowing 
it to boil. Throw into the tureen over grilled bread. 



dry sours. 19 



DRY SOUPS. 

The following recipes may be termed Dry Soups, and 
make a pleasant change in middle-class households when 
soup and fish are not in the menu for the day. They are 
simple to prepare in kitchens where the boiling of rice and 
Italian pastes is understood ; if these are boiled to a mash, 
the dishes will be worthless. The rice should be tender, 
at the same time each grain separate ; the Italian pastes also 
tender, but with a certain crispness in them, which can be 
given by throwing a jug of cold water through them (on a 
sieve) immediately after they are boiled. 

48. Rice and Tomatoes 

(Riz aux tomates). 

One and a half pint of gravy, two tomatoes which have 
been passed through a sieve, or a table-spoonful of tomato 
sauce (No. 90), one teacupful of rice ; boil up, then let 
simmer gently until the gravy is absorbed ; if by that time 
the rice is still hard add a little more gravy. When 
finished add a small piece of butter and toss it about in the 
rice ; see if sufficiently seasoned with salt. Patna rice is the 
proper kind for these preparations. Serve in an entree-dish. 

49. 

Rice can be prepared in the same manner without 
tomato, in which case grated cheese (Parmesan for prefer- 
ence) should be served with it. 

50. Rice Milanese fashion 

{Risotto a la Milanaise). 

Half a pound of fresh butter, one medium-sized onion 
chopped fine ; put in a stewpan ; fry until onion is a 



20 DRY SOUPS. 

pale golden colour; add i^ lb. of rice with a very little 
powdered saffron (see No. 9) ; cook together for two 
minutes, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon to 
prevent it sticking to the saucepan. Add 3 pints of gravy 
or broth ; let it simmer until rice is tender, still occasion- 
ally stirring. Before quite cooked add a little grated nut- 
meg, 2 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, then boil for one 
minute. 

This quantity is far too much for an ordinary dish. 



51. Spanish Recipe for Rice and Tomatoes 

(Riz aux tomates a V Espagnole). 

Take one table-spoonful of the finest Lucca salad-oil, one 
sliced Spanish onion ; let it brown in the oil ; season with 
salt and pepper ; slice into it three or four tomatoes strained 
of superfluous water and seeds. When it boils add one 
breakfast-cupful of rice ; let it swell gently. When all the 
water is absorbed, if the rice is still hard, add a little more. 
Naturally, gravy instead of water will improve this dish. 

52. Rice and Peas (excellent) 
(Riz et petits pois). 

Put the rice in a saucepan with three times the quantity 
of gravy or water ; let it swell gradually ; add a piece about 
the size of a walnut of good sweet beef or goose dripping. 

To prepare the peas for the rice, fry some finely 
shredded onion in the best oil (about a table-spoonful), 
with pepper, salt, very little ground ginger, and nutmeg. 
Lay the heart and best leaves of a cos lettuce at the 
bottom of the stewpan, with a quart of very young peas. 
Add a pint of gravy. Stew gently. A little fine white 
sugar is always an improvement to peas. Rice and peas 
to be eaten together, but to be served up in separate entries 
dishes. 



DRY SOUPS. 21 

53. 

All Italian pastes boiled according to directions given in 
No. 1 8, thrown into an etifree-dish and mixed with tomato 
sauce (No. 88), or merely a lump of butter and grated 
cheese, are excellent. Naples macaroni is superior to the 
Genoa. The Italian paste called Sparghetti is one of the 
best for these dishes ; it is sold at the stores and all the 
large and best shops (Italian warehouses). 

54. French Beans and Tomatoes 

(Haricots verts et tomates). 

Throw the beans into boiling water (salted), and boil them 
until tender. Have a stewpan ready with a table-spoonful 
of best oil, a little chopped shallot, pepper, salt ; let the 
shallot brown ; add four good-sized tomatoes, peeled and 
cut up (always throw away the seeds and superfluous water) ; 
put in the beans ; stew all gently for an hour. When 
French beans are perfectly fresh and young they are far 
better for being merely strung and not cut ; in cutting 
them the principal flavour goes in the water. 

55. Broad Beans 

(Feves a Vhuile), 

These must be very small and quite young. Cook them 
for a few minutes in boiling water, then strain. Fry some 
chopped shallot in a table-spoonful of oil, with pepper, salt, 
ginger, and nutmeg. When all is brown, put in the beans, 
a little chopped parsley, and the juice of a lemon. Sinimei 
gently until the beans are tender. 



GRAVIES. 



56. Economical Gravy. 

Chop up fine any quantity of bones, odds and ends of 
meat, or the bones from a neck of mutton which is to serve 
for ragout or Irish stew. Put them in a saucepan with any 
morsels of bacon or a ham-bone, and a table-spoonful of 
fat, one large sliced onion, one carrot, a bouquet of paisley, 
thyme, and laurel -leaf, three cloves, 10 grains of whole 
pepper, a cupful of water ; place on the fire, stirring 
occasionally until all the water is absorbed and the bottom 
of the saucepan commences to take colour — it must not 
burn ; moisten with sufficient water to cover all entirely ; 
boil ; skim ; continue to cook slowly for four hours. Take 
off all fat and pass through the sieve. As this gravy is 
intended for different sauces it should not be salted. 

57. A Superior Gravy. 

Add to the bones i or 2 lb. of veal and beef; cut it up 
small ; proceed the same as with economical gravy. When 
the meat is cooked it can be used for hashes or mince ; if 
not to be eaten it can be left in the gravy until all good is 
extracted. Gravy prepared in this manner, a little salt 
added, will turn into jelly very quickly, especially in winter, 
and will serve to garnish cold meats. 

Note. — If gravy is desired only for brown sauces, veal 
is not necessary ; on the other hand, when a very delicate 
white sauce is needed, only veal must be used. 



GRAVIES. 23 



58. 



Gravies made from the foregoing recipes (Nos. 56, 57) 
form the basis of all sauces. If a good and intelligent 
cook is careful always to keep some good gravy in the 
larder, which in large households can be done with no 
additional expense, — at the same time keep a covered jar 
of brown thickening always at hand, — a good sauce can be 
obtained at a few minutes' notice by varying the flavouring 
according to recipes which will be given farther on. For 
the thickening there is an excellent one in Cassell's ' Dic- 
tionary of Cookery,' in the instructions at the commence- 
ment of the book. It can be simply made in an enamelled 
stewpan by taking equal parts of butter and flour ; melt the 
butter first ; strain it away from the sediments ; replace the 
clarified butter into the saucepan, which has been carefully 
wiped ; add the flour by degrees, and keep stirring over the 
fire until it begins to take the colour of ripe corn ; continue 
stirring, every now and then lifting the pan from the fire in 
order that it shall not take colour too quickly. At this stage 
slice half a Spanish onion into it ; this will cause a great 
spluttering, so precaution must be taken against burns. 
Continue to stir until it takes the colour of chocolate ; 
it will take time, quite half an hour. When finished strain 
into a jar, cover, and keep in a cool place. Care must 
be taken at the commencement that the butter is only 
allowed to melt, not boil. A piece the size of a walnut of 
this thickening is sufficient for an ordinary stew or ragotit, 
and it has the additional advantage of being much more 
wholesome than thickening made each time it is needed — 
probably in a hurry, and not sufficiently boiled. Naturally 
this preparation will not do for white sauces. 

Sauces are generally the weakest point in middle-class 
households ; by following the rules given in this work they 
will be found as easy as, if not easier than, the boiling of 
a potato to perfection. 



24 GRAVIES. 



59. Meat Jelly. 

Take about i y 2 lb. of the shin or leg of veal, the same 
of shin of beef, three boned calves' feet. Cut the meat in 
pieces ; chop up the bones. Put all into a saucepan with 
sufficient cold water to cover the meat ; a pinch of salt ; 
bring to the boil over a slow fire ; skim, add half a bottle 
of white wine, a bouquet of parsley, thyme, and laurel-leaf, 
one onion pierced with two or three cloves, two carrots, 
three whites of leeks. Let all cook slowly for three or four 
hours, taking care to take out the veal and feet before they 
are too much cooked, in order to serve them for eating. 
The jelly should have reduced one-third during the cook- 
ing. Take off the grease ; pour it into a tureen to get cold. 
It is best to make the jelly a day in advance in order to 
judge of its consistency before clearing it. The following 
day take off all fat very carefully, when it will be seen if it 
is sufficiently firm for the purpose to which it is destined. 
If it should not be, melt some leaves of gelatine in cold 
water ; add it to the jelly before clearing it. 



60. To clear the Jelly. 

Beat up in a casserole or stewpan three or four whites of 
eggs, the juice of a lemon ; add the jelly, taking care not 
to pour in the deposit which will have formed at the bottom 
of the tureen. Mix well with a whisk the jelly and eggs ; 
put the pan on a slow fire, beating all the time until it 
boils, then remove the pan to the side of the fire to let it 
simmer for ten minutes. Pass through the jelly-cloth until 
clear. Before placing the jelly aside to cool it may be 
coloured if desired with a few drops of caramel, or it may 
be left natural. This jelly is used for aspic to garnish cold 
meats, or as a strengthening jelly for invalids. 



GRAVIES. 25 

61. Glaze. 

Glaze can be obtained by reducing the remains of gravies, 
soups, and jelly. The remains of veal are preferable, being 
more gelatinous ; but any meat will serve for glaze (not 
mutton). Place in a deep saucepan 4 or 5 quarts of gravy 
or soup well skimmed and strained ; let it boil continually 
to quicken the evaporation. Skim constantly until the 
liquid commences to thicken to that point when it will 
adhere lightly to a spoon placed in it. Pass it through a 
fine sieve into a small vessel ; let it get cold. 

Note. — The economical gravy (No. 56) will make excel- 
lent glaze even if mutton-bones form part of its composition. 

62. Thickenings and Sauces. 

When the thickening is made each time it is wanted a 
small piece of butter is melted in a stewpan (not boiled), 
then add the same quantity of flour. Stir over a slow fire 
until it is a golden colour. If it is intended for a white 
sauce it is stirred for an instant, but is not allowed to take 
colour. 

63. Thickening with Eggs 
{Liaison aux ceufs). 

The yolks of eggs are used in white sauces. They must 
never be thrown suddenly into the hot sauce or gravy, but 
a little of the latter must be added by degrees into the 
basin containing the beaten yolks, whisking all the time; 
then throw all back into the saucepan to get hot, still 
stirring ; but it must not boil after the eggs have been 
added. 

64. Butter Thickening 
{Liaison au beurre). 

Place on a plate a piece of butter and the same quantity 
of flour ; work them well together with a fork. 



26 GRAVIES. 

65. Brown Sauce 

{Sauce brune). 

Make a thickening with i ^ oz. of butter melted gently 
(must not boil) ; stir over a slow fire with the same quantity 
of flour until a golden colour. Add i quart of good gravy, 
and if desired a wine-glassful of tomato pure'e (No. 88) or 
sauce. Let it cook gently until it reduces one-third, skim- 
ming and taking off the grease as it rises. When of proper 
consistency pass through a fine sieve. The seasoning must 
be regulated according to the use for which it is intended. 

66. Madeira Sauce 

{Sauce madere). 

It can either be made by simply adding to the brown 
sauce (No. 65) a small tumbler of madeira or marsala 
wine, with a grain or two of cayenne pepper and the juice 
of a lemon ; or the wine to be put in a stewpan with 1 oz. 
of ham cut small and a pint of simple gravy ; let it reduce 
one-half, then add the thickening and more gravy ; but 
if the gravy is made at the commencement according to 
recipe No. 56, the latter mode seems needless trouble. 

67. Sauce with Olives 

{Sauce aux olives). 

Take the stones from the olives with a sharp-pointed 
knife ; try and keep them whole, that they may resume the 
appearance of the entire olive. Cook them for ten minutes 
in a little sherry, then throw them into a brown sauce : 
twenty minutes will finish cooking them. 

68. Mushroom Sauce (Tinned Mushrooms) 

{Sauce aux champignons dc conserve). 

Cut some button mushrooms in halves ; let them boil 
quickly in a little water; strain them into a brown or 



GRAVIES. 27 

madeira sauce ; let them continue to simmer in the sauce 
for ten minutes ; add lemon-juice. 

69. Sauce of Large Fresh Mushrooms 

(Sauce aux champignons frais). 

Half a pound of mushrooms freshly gathered ; cut away 
the earthy part at the base of the stalk ; throw them as they 
are prepared into a basin of fresh water ; wash them in 
several waters ; drain them on a sieve. Prepare in a stew- 
pan a tumbler of water, a little salt, the juice of a lemon, 
a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut ; let it boil. 
Place the casserole upon the table ; with a pointed knife 
take off the fine skin that covers the mushrooms ; throw 
them as they are skinned into the stewpan with the boiled 
and seasoned water, so that they do not become black. 
Place the stewpan on the fire ; let it cook five minutes. 
Use the mushrooms at once, or keep them one or two 
days in the liquor in which they have been cooked. When 
the sauce is to be made, reduce this liquor one-third j put 
it with the mushrooms into a pint of madeira sauce. 

70. Dutch Sauce 

(Sauce hollandaise). 

Prepare on a plate 7 oz. of best fresh butter ; soften it 
and divide it into small pieces. Put in a small stewpan 
three yolks of raw eggs, a pinch of salt, one of white 
pepper ; beat them well with a wooden spoon, add to them 
a table-spoonful of warm water and 1 y 2 oz. of butter. Pour 
a little hot water into a Yorkshire pudding tin ; put the 
stewpan in this on a gentle fire ; stir until the eggs com- 
mence lightly to thicken. At this point take the stewpan 
from the fire and place it on one side of the stove, and 
add little by little the remainder of the prepared butter. 
The sauce should be clear and brilliant as a mayonnaise. 
Season, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. If the 
sauce is too thick add a little water. 



28 GRAVIES. 

This sauce should be well beaten at a moderate fire, and 
once finished should be often whipped if it has to be kept. 
Upon the freshness of the butter depends its excellence. 

Note. — If this sauce is to be eaten with fish, take a 
cupful of vinegar, with a few grains of whole pepper ; this 
to be reduced on the fire to a quarter of a cup. Strain 
this into the sauce. If vinegar is used the lemon to be 
omitted. 

71. Anchovy Sauce for Fish (very good) 

(Sauce d'anchois). 

Make hot two table-spoonfuls of best oil ; dissolve in it 
three anchovies (pass through a sieve). Have ready the 
yolks of three boiled (hard) eggs ; mash them free from 
lumps ; add them to the anchovies. When the mixture is 
cold add to it lemon-juice and oil, proceeding in exactly 
the same manner as for mayonnaise. To ensure greater 
smoothness it is advisable to pass the hard-boiled eggs 
through a sieve. 

72. Sauce b^arnaise. 

Chop finely two shallots ; put them in a stewpan with 
i gill of vinegar (tarragon), a pinch of salt, one of pepper. 
Let it reduce to a table-spoonful ; strain it through a sieve ; 
put it back in the stewpan with the yolks of three raw 
eggs ; place the stewpan in a frying-pan with a little water 
on the fire. Beat up the eggs with the spoon and mix 
them ; as they thicken add little by little ^ lb. fresh butter, 
divided into small pieces. Use the whisk, and keep a 
moderate heat. Finish with i^ oz. of glaze and a tea- 
spoonful of chopped tarragon or parsley. If no glaze is at 
hand replace it by the same quantity of Liebig's essence. 

Note. — The object of placing the stewpan in a pan with 
water is to avoid the eggs coming into direct contact with 
the fire, a process always to be avoided for fear of them 
curdling. A practised hand may succeed by beating briskly 
and without ceasing until the first appearance of boiling, 



GRAVIES. 29 

when the stewpan must be instantly lifted from the fire. 
In kitchens where there is a bain-marie there is no difficulty 
with sauces — they can be made in the morning and warmed : 
in any case it is advisable to make them early when two or 
more are needed for dinner. Where there is no bain-marie, 
place the sauces in jars or large jam-pots, and heat them 
by placing them in a vessel of boiling water on the stove. 

73. Genevese Sauce 

{Sauce genevoise). 

Make a thickening of 1^ oz. of butter and the same 
quantity of flour ; must not be coloured. Moisten with 
stock in which fish has been boiled (No. 45) ; let it cook 
ten minutes ; skim carefully ; thicken it at the last moment 
with two yolks of (raw) eggs, 1 }£ oz. of fresh butter (see 
No. 64) ; whisk the sauce for an instant ; season. A tea- 
spoonful of essence of anchovies improves this sauce. 

74. Egg and Lemon Sauce 

(Sauce a Vceuf et an citron). 

Take the raw yolks of five eggs and the strained juice of 
two lemons. Beat up the eggs, adding the lemon-juice by 
degrees, then add by table-spoonfuls some of the hot gravy 
for which this thickening is intended ; throw all back into 
the stewpan and stir as directed for all sauces in which raw 
eggs are used (see No. 72). 

75. Cream Sauce 

(Sauce a la crane). 

Make a white thickening with 1 oz. of butter and the 
same of flour ; moisten with a pint of warm cream or 
milk ; beat briskly with the whisk to bring it to the boil. 
It should be quite smooth, with no lumps. Let it simmer 
an instant ; add salt, pepper, nutmeg ; finish with 1 oz. 
of fresh butter, whisking quickly. 



30 GRAVIES. 

76. Sauce remoulade. 

Place in a salad-bowl the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs 
beaten smooth and passed through a sieve, one raw yolk of 
egg, a dessert-spoonful of raw mustard, salt, pepper. Beat 
all up with a spoon ; add by degrees as for mayonnaise a 
teacupful of finest oil ; as the sauce thickens (by continual 
beating) add a few drops of vinegar; taste if sufficiently 
seasoned. 

77. An Excellent Sauce for Game, Poultry, 
and Wild Duck 

{Sauce bourgeoise). 

Place in a stewpan three table-spoonfuls of chopped 
shallot and onions ; colour them in i ^ oz. of butter ; 
shake over them a pinch of flour, and moisten with a 
little stock. Add a pinch of pepper, a laurel-leaf, sprig of 
parsley, four chopped anchovies. Stir until it boils, then 
leave it to cook (stirring occasionally only) for about 
fifteen minutes. Add to it the gravy of the roast which 
has had all the grease taken off and been passed through 
a strainer. Add some slices of lemon without skin or 
pips, a pinch of cayenne. Remove laurel and parsley 
before serving. 

78. Green Sauce for Fish 

{Sauce verte). 

Scald for five minutes a few leaves of tarragon, parsley, 
and chervil, five leaves of spinach ; pour cold water over 
them ; squeeze them dry. Pound all in a mortar with two 
gherkins, a teaspoonful of capers, four fillets of anchovies 
well cleaned ; add i ^ oz. of fresh butter ; pound for 
another instant. Turn out this paste ; pass through a 
sieve. Keep it to add the last minute to any sauce for 
hot fish, such as Genevese sauce, &c. 



GRAVIES. 31 

79. Parsley Butter 

(Maitre d'kotel). 

Soften 3 oz. of butter on a plate ; add a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, the juice of half a lemon, and a little salt. 

80. Mayonnaise Sauce. 

Put the yolks of two raw eggs into a salad-bow], a pinch 
of salt, one of white pepper ; beat them with a wooden 
spoon ; add y 2 pint of best olive-oil. Only a few drops 
at a time must be added, and with the other hand whisk 
briskly without ceasing. As the sauce becomes too thick 
add a few drops of vinegar; continue until all the oil is 
finished ; see it is sufficiently seasoned. If the sauce has 
not taste enough, add a little more vinegar or the juice of a 
lemon ; if too thick, thin it with a table-spoonful of cold 
water. 

If the sauce has to be kept some time before serving, 
stir occasionally and keep it in a cool place (on ice if con- 
venient). Should it become curdled, beat up another yolk 
of egg, adding little by little the sauce already made. 

81. Tartar Sauce 

(Sauce lartare). 

Chop up fine three gherkins, a few capers, some leaves 
of tarragon, parsley, olives ; mix all to a i:ood mayonnaise 
sauce ; mix all with a teaspoonful of English mustard and 
a tiny pinch of cayenne. 

82. Apple Sauce 

(Sauce aux pomnies). 

Peel two or three sour apples ; chop them ; cook them 
in a little water ; pass them through a sieve or tammy-cloth. 
Add a little white wine, a pincn of cinnamon, one of sugar. 
Boil up and serve. 



32 GRAVIES. 

83. White Sauce 

; Sauce maitre d 1 hotel chaude). 

Prepare a white sauce (No. 84). When it is smooth 
take it from the fire and add little by little 3 oz. of parsley 
butter (No. 85). 

84. Butter Sauce 

{Sauce au beurre). 

Put 1 y^ oz. of butter and the same of flour into a stewpan ; 
stir it well to mix it, place it for an instant on a gentle fire ; 
moisten with a pint of water ; salt and pepper; beat quickly 
with the whisk until it boils (or just as it commences) ; 
take it immediately from the fire. If the same is too thin 
mix a piece of butter the size of a walnut with a teaspoon- 
ful of flour ; divide it in small pieces and mix them with 
the sauce, heating all the time. Let it simmer ; season 
with salt, a grain or two of nutmeg, 2 oz. of butter cut into 
small pieces, and the juice of half a lemon ; whisk briskly 
over the fire for five minutes ; must not boil. 

85. Parsley Butter 

{Maitre d 'hotel butter). 

Soften on a plate with a fork 3 oz. of fresh butter, a 
dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, a little salt, the juice 
of half a lemon. 

86. Sauce piquante. 

Put into a stewpan 1 1 /> oz. of butter, three shallots 
chopped finely, one cupful of vinegar, a pinch of pepper. 
Boil until the vinegar is entirely reduced and the shallots 
commence to frizzle in the butter, then add a table-spoonful 
of flour ; make the thickening ; moisten with 1 pint of 
gravy or stock ; stir over the fire until it boils. Let it 
cook until a third of it is reduced, taste if properly seasoned, 
and finish by adding three gherkins chopped, or capers, a 
table-spoonful of parsley and chives chopped very fine. If 
desired, colour the sauce with a little caramel 



GRAVIES. 33 

87. Another Way. 

Reduce a cupful of vinegar (tarragon) with chopped 
shallots, a pinch of pepper, to two-thirds of the quantity ; 
strain through a fine sieve into a simple brown sauce ; add 
chopped gherkins and parsley ; cook for five minutes. 

88. Tomato Sauce 

(Sauce aux tomates fraiches). 

Cut in two five or six medium tomatoes (very ripe) ; 
squeeze out the seeds ; put them in a stewpan with a 
cupful of water or stock ; salt, pepper ; a bouquet of laurel, 
thyme, parsley ; a chopped onion. Let the tomatoes dis- 
solve ; they must be covered and on a good fire until all 
moisture has disappeared, then pass through a tammy-cloth. 
Prepare a white thickening with i oz. of butter, the same 
of flour ; add the pure'e of tomatoes into it ; thin the sauce 
with stock. Let it cook ten to fifteen minutes ; see if 
seasoned to taste ; finish with a pinch of sugar and i oz. of 
fresh butter. This sauce should be of a good thickness. 

89. Sauce of Preserved Tomatoes 

{Sauce aux tomates consen/ies). 

Prepare the thickening as in No. 88 ; add the pure'e of 
tomatoes from the tin or bottle, and finish the same as for 
the fresh sauce. 

90. Tomato Sauce, Spanish Fashion (delicious) 

{Sauce tomate a l'espag?iole). 

Take three chopped shallots, put them into a stewpan 
with a table -spoonful of finest oil, salt, pepper, ground 
ginger, ground nutmeg (very little of the last two). Let 
the shallots take a good colour without burning ; add five 
or six tomatoes skinned and all the pips well squeezed 
out. Let them cook very gently until all moisture has 
c 



34 GRAVIES. 

disappeared. They should take the consistency of jam. 
Naturally they will lose their bright colour, but the taste 
will be none the less excellent. They must not be strained, 
but sent to table in a sauce-boat. Can be eaten with boiled 
meat, and is equally good hot or cold. 

Note. — To skin tomatoes easily, place them for a few 
moments in the oven or on the stove, or plunge them into 
boiling water. 

91. Another Green Sauce for Fish (see No. 78). 

Take all the same herbs as in No. 77. Leave out the 
butter. Place this purie in a salad-bowl with salt and 
pepper ; beat it up with three table-spoonfuls of vinegar 
and six of the finest oil. 

92. Anchovy Butter 

{Beurre cf anchois). 

Soften 3 oz. of fresh butter with a teaspoonful of anchovy 
paste or essence until it is well mixed. 

93. Another Way (far superior). 

Clean and remove the bones from three anchovies ; 
pound them in a mortar ; add 3 oz. of fresh butter ; mix 
all well, and pass through a tammy-cloth or hair-sieve. 

94. Prawn or Shrimp Butter (see No. 27). 

95. Horse-radish Sauce 

{Sauce raifort). 

Peel a stick of horse-radish ; grate (not scrape) it. Mnke 
a thickening of equal parts of butter and flour (1 oz.); 
moisten with stock sufficient to make a smooth sauce not 
too thick. Directly it boils add two table-spoonfuls of the 
grated horse-radish ; let it cook an instant ; finish by 



GRAVIES. 35 

making a thickening (No. 63) with one or two yolks of 
eggs, a piece of fresh butter, and a few drops of vinegar 
or lemon-juice. 

96. Horse-radish Sauce (cold) 

(Sauce raifort au vinaigre). 

Grate the horse-radish — useless to scrape it; place in 
a pickle-bottle with salt, pepper, and vinegar. 

97. Vinaigrette Sauce. 

Mix in a salad-bowl a teaspoonful of raw mustard, salt, 
pepper, three table-spoonfuls of vinegar, six of best oil ; add 
chopped onion, parsley, and chives. 

98. Bechamel Sauce. 

Chop up an onion and small carrot ; cut into small dice 
1 oz. of lean ham ; cook all in 2 02. of butter a few minutes. 
Add two table-spoonfuls of flour, and mix well. Moisten 
the above with milk and white stock in equal quantities, 
making a sauce not too thick. Add a bouquet of laurel, 
thyme, parsley; cook and reduce for twenty minutes. 
Make a thickening with the yolks (only) of two eggs ; 1 oz. 
of fresh butter (No. 63). Pass through a fine sieve 01 
tammy-cloth. 

99. Prawn or Shrimp Sauce 

(Sauce aux crevettes). 

Cook as for bisque soup two dozen prawns or a larger 
quantity of shrimps. Take off the tails and keep them on 
one side. With the bodies and skins make % lb. of prawn 
butter (see No. 27); then with equal parts of butter and 
flour — about 1 oz. each — the liquor the prawns have been 
boiled in, and a little water or stock, make a white sauce ; 
season. Make the egg thickening (No. 63) with two yolks; 
strain through a fine sieve. At the last add the prawn 



36 GRAVIES. 

butter divided into little pieces, and beat all briskly for a 
minute. A grain or two of cayenne and the juice of a 
lemon improve this sauce. The tails are added at the last. 

100. Italian Sauce 

{Sauce a Vitalienne). 

Chop a medium-sized onion finely, and colour in i oz. of 
butter. Mix with it a table-spoonful of flour ; moisten with 
i pint of gravy or stock and a cupful of white wine. Stir 
on the fire until it boils ; add if desired a table-spoonful of 
purk of tomatoes and a pinch of pepper. Let it reduce 
to two-thirds ; finish with sweet herbs chopped fine, a little 
cayenne, and the juice of a lemon. 

101. Italian Sauce 

{Sauce d Vitalienne). 

Prepare the same as No. ioo, without tomato, and in the 
place of the lemon and cayenne add a table-spoonful of 
chopped capers and two anchovies, also chopped. 

102. Sauce poivrade. 

Chop finely one onion, one shallot, and one small carrot. 
Cut into small dice i oz. of lean ham or bacon, and colour 
all in i oz. of butter. Add a table-spoonful of flour ; stir 
until it commences to boil. In another pan reduce by 
one-half a tumblerful of vinegar, with a leaf of laurel, one 
of thyme, and ten peppercorns crushed. Add this infusion 
to the sauce, let it reduce to two-thirds, and pass through 
a strainer. If not sufficiently spiced add a little white 
pepper. 

103. Sauce poivrade with Cream 
{Sauce poivrade a la creme). 

At the moment of serving add to the poivrade sauce 
(No. 102) a cupful of cream; let it simmer a short time. 



GRAVIES. 



17 



104. White Sauce for Vegetables 

(Sauce bla?iche). 

Make a thickening with equal quantities of butter and 
flour (i oz.); add i pint of beef stock; stir on the fire 
until it boils ; add one carrot sliced, a small onion pierced 
with two cloves, or bouquet of laurel, parsley, and thyme. 
Let it cook gently until one-third is reduced, taking care 
to skim, and take the grease off continually. This sauce 
should be smooth and shining. Season, and pass through 
a fine sieve. Two or three yolks of eggs and a little white 
wine can be added to this sauce if desired for certain 
vegetables or ragouts. 

105. Remarks on the above Sauces. 

The writer trusts the chapter on sauces has been made 
sufficiently plain. If the thickening is made fresh each 
time, simply take equal quantities of butter and flour ; melt 
the butter gently; add the flour and stir briskly for an 
instant ; add the necessary stock or gravy, and continue to 
whisk over the fire until it commences to boil. When 
made fresh each time, it must simmer for another hour 
with whatever meat, vegetables, or poultry it is intended 
for. If wanted in a hurry, and is taken from a pot of 
thickening kept for use, it is ready the moment the whole 
boils up. This is the basis of all sauces. The flavouring 
varies according to the dishes in preparation. When eggs 
are used, see No. 63. 



38 



F I S II. 



106. For the Frying of Fish or Meats. 

There are several ways of frying : the same can be said 
of the material used for it. I will indicate the different 
methods, the rest must be left to the cook to choose 
which she prefers. On the Continent it is not called 
frying when a small pan is used ; for the purpose is kept 
a large casserole or stewpan, deep, and wider at the top 
than at the bottom ; it must be wide enough to hold a 
frying-basket easily. This stewpan is filled two-thirds with 
fat (directions for preparing the same will be found at the 
commencement of this work). The fat must be brought to 
boiling-point. When it begins lightly to steam it is ready ; 
the fish or meat to be plunged in, either in the frying- 
basket or not. The time for cooking varies according to 
the thickness of the fish. To be taken out and drained 
on a sieve. Fish or meat cooked in this manner has the 
advantage of being entirely free from grease. After use, 
the fat to be strained and poured in a clean vessel ; it can 
be used many times — dozens of times — until it becomes 
black and burned. Naturally entirely different fat must be 
kept for meat and fish ; that used for meat will serve for 
beignets (pancakes of all kinds) and potatoes. 

Where there is a prejudice in favour of lard for frying, 
the same instructions to be followed. Butter is most ex- 
travagant and unnecessary, as in reality there is no taste of 
the fat when the above instructions are carefully carried 



FISH. 39 

out and the proper degree of heat obtained before plunging 
the fish or meat into it. 

Oil is excellent for frying fish ; but it is not cheap, and 
many people are prejudiced against it. Fish fried in oil 
takes a better colour than fat or butter gives. Fat for 
frying must be heated to boiling-point. A dash of cold 
water thrown in will test it ; if it splutters directly, the heat 
is at the degree required. The fish to be fried must be 
well washed after having remained some little time in a 
sprinkling of salt ; dry in a clean cloth ; pass through flour. 
The fish must be so dry that the flour does not stick to it, 
but can be shaken off easily. Pass through beaten egg and 
drop it immediately into the boiling fat. When of a deep 
golden colour it can be taken out and laid on a sieve. 
Some cooks put the fish in egg or milk before passing it 
through flour, but the way indicated above is far preferable. 
If a frying-pan must be used, it should be two-thirds filled 
with fat or oil — the fish to be treated in the same manner 
as for deep frying ; but more care will be needed in drain- 
ing it, as it will be found much more greasy. In using the 
frying-pan great care will be necessary ; so large a quantity 
of hot fat in so shallow a vessel can be easily overturned 
or come in contact with the fire, in which case the results 
might be disastrous. 

To use very little fat or butter at the bottom of the pan 
is the plan evidently adopted by those cooks who consider 
fish should be sent to table with half the skin burnt to a 
cinder and the other half left in the pan and the fish red at 
the bone. 

Rissoles, croquettes, beignets of all kinds, and potatoes, 
must be done in the deep frying : for all these a frying- 
basket is indispensable. 

107. Stock to boil Fish 

( Court-bouillon). 

In good kitchens on the Continent stock is used to boil 
5sh in, instead of plain water as with us. 



40 FISH. 

This stock is very useful for the sauce to be used for 
the fish, and saves trouble for the same, it being already 
flavoured and seasoned. Put in a fish-kettle or saucepan 3 
quarts of water — of course the quantity varies according to 
the size of the fish, which should be quite covered ; a hand- 
ful of salt ; fifteen peppercorns ; one large onion and one 
carrot, both sliced ; a sprig of parsley, a laurel-leaf, a little 
thyme ; a cupful of vinegar. Let it boil fifteen minutes. 
Strain this stock into the fish-kettle in which the fish has 
been placed ; add more water if the fish is not sufficiently 
covered. Cover the fish-kettle ; place it over the fire to 
bring it to the boil ; then draw it to the side. The liquid 
should be just kept bubbling until the fish is cooked. A 
trout weighing 2 lb. will take from twelve to fifteen 
minutes ; 4 lb., from twenty to thirty-five minutes ; 8 lb., 
from forty-five to fifty minutes. Place the trout for an 
instant on a grill laid on the top of the fish-kettle to drain 
it ; slide the fish on to the dish already prepared for it with 
a fish-napkin. Take away the string which has tied the 
head together ; surround the fish with small new potatoes 
boiled ; garnish with parsley ; serve with a good sauce. 
Hollandaise, tartar, lobster, anchovy, are all equally ex- 
cellent with salmon. 

108. Trout baked 

(Petites truites a la Voltaire). 

Clean six small fresh trout; put salt and pepper inside 
them ; arrange them on a dish that will stand the fire ; 
butter it well ; pour over y 2 pint of white wine ; cover with 
a buttered paper. Cook them on the stove or in the oven 
for eight or ten minutes, turning them once. Dress them 
upon a warm dish ; put back the dish in which they were 
cooked upon the fire ; reduce the same to half a cupful ; 
add 1 oz. of meat-glaze or a table-spoonful of good gravy ; 
boil it up, then mix in a piece of butter the size of an 
egg divided into small pieces — a piece at a time during 
the beating — a teaspoonful of freshly chopped parsley and 



FISH. 41 

tarragon, and the juice of half a lemon ; whisk all briskly 
on the stove, but it must not boil. Pour the sauce over 
the fish. 

109. Trout grilled in Butter 
(Petites truites au beurre a la meuniere). 

Prepare the trout as in 108. Put in the frying-pan 
2 oz. of butter clarified (see Directions, commencement of 
book) ; warm it without allowing it to blacken ; place in the 
pan the trout well floured, one by the side of another ; 
sprinkle salt and pepper over ; let them cook slowly on 
one side for five or six minutes, the same time on the 
other : the colour to be golden. Arrange the trout upon 
the dish; add the juice of a lemon or a little vinegar to the 
butter in the frying-pan, chopped parsley ; baste the trout 
with it, and pour it over them to serve. 

110. Boiled Salmon 

{Saumon sauce a la genevoise). 

It can be boiled in the stock (No. 107), or simply in 
water salted and with a little lemon or vinegar in it. A 
large salmon should be put at the commencement into 
cold water or stock ; bring it slowly to boil, and continue 
the cooking, only allowing it to simmer. A salmon weigh- 
ing from 8 to 10 lb. will take one hour after it has boiled. 
Can be served with sauce genevoise, hollandaise, verte, 
or lobster sauce. 

111. Grilled Salmon 

{Tranches de saumon grillees sauce succulente). 

Two or three slices of salmon, the whole weighing about 
i z /2 lb., will suffice for six persons. Wash the slices; dry 
them in a soft cloth ; sprinkle them with salt and pepper ; 
oil them lightly, or, better still, wrap them in oiled white 
paper. Grill them over a very clear fire ; cook them six 
or eight minutes ; turn them over, and keep them the same 



42 FISH. 

time on the other side. Arrange them on a plate and 
throw over them the following sauce. Sauce sucailente. — 
Melt in a small stewpan 2 oz. of glaze (or a little strong 
gravy), with a table-spoonful of tomato sauce ; when it boils 
move the pan to the side of the fire ; mix with it gradually 
3 oz. of fresh butter divided into small pieces, stirring very 
briskly to render it very smooth ; season to taste ; add the 
juice of a lemon and a teaspoonful of chopped tarragon. 

Grilled salmon can also be served with tnaitre d'holel 
sauce or anchovy butter. 

112. To dress Cold Fish. 

With the remains of fish many dishes can be made, 
merely arranged on a dish and mayonnaise or Tartar sauce 
poured over, or in the different methods given in the 
following recipes. 

113. Mayonnaise of Fish 

{Mayonnaise de poisson). 

Remove the skin and bones from the fish to be served. 
Shred up the heart of a fine cos lettuce; lay it at the 
bottom of a round dish ; place upon it a layer of fish 
divided in small pieces ; cover it with a layer of mayonnaise 
sauce, thick and well seasoned ; continue with fish and 
sauce until all is used, bringing it gradually to the top in 
the form of a dome ; the sauce to be the last, and made 
quite smooth with a knife. Take fillets of anchovies split 
lengthwise, and arrange them from the top to the bottom 
of the mayonnaise ; hard-boiled eggs chopped, the white 
and yolk to be chopped separately and kept apart ; chopped 
capers and parsley. Arrange all these between the fillets 
of anchovies, blending well the various colours of white, 
yellow, and green. Arrange the bottom of the dish with 
hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters placed round the mayon- 
naise ; then on the top of the dome place the heart of a 
lettuce open in the shape of a fan. 



FISH. 43 

114. Remains of Fish with Cream 

{Poisson a la crime gratiri). 

Prepare the remains of the fish as for No. 113; make 
a sauce of cream thickened with the yolk of an egg, not too 
thick and well seasoned. Butter a dish (for the oven) ; put 
a little sauce at the bottom of the dish, then a layer of fish ; 
continue until the end. Arrange in the form of a dome ; 
finish in putting the remainder of the sauce ; make all 
smooth with a knife; sprinkle all with grated cheese and 
bread-crumbs baked ; moisten with a little dissolved butter ; 
put in the oven, and leave it to take a beautiful golden 
colour. 

115. Another Way. 

Make a rich puree of potatoes ; place this in a kind of 
hillock round the dish (for the oven), arranging and 
smoothing it with the blade of the knife ; place the fish 
and sauce in the middle as in the former recipes ; bake in 
the same manner. 

116. Fish in Shells 

( Coquilles de poisson). 

Prepare the fish and the cream sauce as for No. 114; 
butter the shells ; place some sauce at the bottom, then 
sufficient fish to fill the shell to three-fourths ; cover the 
fish with a dessert-spoonful of sauce, smooth over with a 
knife — they should be higher in the middle ; sprinkle with 
grated cheese and baked bread - crumbs ; a little butter 
melted ; put the shells on a tin ; place in the oven to 
colour about seven or eight minutes. 

117. Fish Patties 

(Bouche'es de poisson). 

Take puff-paste when it has been rolled out only five 
times (see Puff-paste, No. 585); cut out twelve rounds with 



44 FISH. 

a plain cutter 3 inches round (the puff-paste should be one 
third of an inch thick) ; arrange the rounds on a sheet of 
iron for the oven ; let it be moistened a little before putting 
the paste on ; brush the rounds with the yolk of egg ; with 
another cutter about 2 inches round trace the lid of the 
patties by dipping the cutter in hot water and pressing it 
delicately in the middle of the rounds to the depth of a 
little more than one-eighth of an inch. Care must be taken 
not to cut through the paste. Put them in a good oven 
not too hot, but the heat can be increased during fifteen 
to twenty minutes; take them out; lift the cover off; 
carefully remove the soft paste from the inside ; keep 
them hot. 

To fill the patties. — Cut up the remains of any boiled 
fish ; mix with them half their quantity of cream or any 
fish sauce ; warm up this mixture (must not boil) ; fill the 
warm patties. 

118. Shrimp, Oyster, or Lobster Patties 

(Bouc/i/es aux crevettes, aux huitres, aux /crevisses). 

Prepare exactly in the same manner as for fish patties, 
and, according to the fish used, prepare with oyster, shrimp, 
or lobster sauce. 

119. Fish Rissoles 

(Boulettes de poisson). 

Chop up the remains of the fish ; let all be carefully 
looked over to be sure there are no bones. Make a cream 
sauce in the proportion of half the quantity to that of the 
fish (must not be too thick) ; season with salt, pepper, 
nutmeg, chopped parsley and chives. Mix the sauce and 
fish together ; warm it on the fire, stirring all the time 
(must not boil) ; thicken with the yolks of two eggs. Turn 
all upon a plate ; spread it out with a knife to allow it 
quickly to get cold. Divide the cold paste into small 
equal quantities (with a dessert-spoon) ; place them as they 



fish. 45 

are ready upon a floured board ; roll them to the size 
of a walnut ; put them in beaten egg and bread-crumbs ; 
plunge them into hot fat until they take a beautiful colour; 
drain and arrange them on a dish. Serve with Tartar 



120. Eels with Tartar Sauce 

(Angiiille a la tar tare). 

Take 3 lb. of eels; cut them in slices about 2 T / 2 inches 
thick. Boil them (in Fish Stock, No. 107, if possible); 
take them out ; leave them an instant to cool. Beat up 
two eggs with salt and pepper ; pass the slices through 
that, then through bread-crumbs ; plunge them into boiling 
fat ; drain ; arrange them in a pyramid on a plate, decorate 
with parsley, and serve them with Tartar sauce. 

121. Eels with Mushrooms 
(Mateloite d'anguille). 

Take 2 lb. of eels ; cut them in slices about 2 inches 
thick. Put into a stewpan a chopped onion, 3 oz. of 
butter, the same of flour ; make a white thickening ; 
moisten with a bottle of red wine ; stir until it boils. 
If the sauce is too thick add a little broth or water. 
Season with salt, pepper, a bouquet of parsley, thyme, 
laurel-leaf, the smallest morsel of garlic, some button 
mushrooms. Put the fish into this, and cook slowly 
until tender. Arrange the pieces in a point upon a dish 
— care must be taken not to break them ; keep them 
warm. See that the sauce is sufficiently seasoned — it 
should be rather highly so ; reduce a little if too thin ; 
pour over the fish. Place round six large croutons of 
bread cut in the form of half a heart and fried in butter 
(No. 33). 

Note. — Carp, pike, and perch can be cooked in the 
same manner. 



46 FISH. 

122. Fish Quenelle-meat 

{Pate a quenelles de poisson). 

Fish with firm flesh, such as pike, perch, carp, and sole, 
is best for this paste. Half a pound of flesh of fish ; % lb. 
panada (see No. 123); 3 oz. butter; salt, pepper, nutmeg. 
Cut the fish in small pieces; season it with salt, pepper, 
nutmeg ; pound it in a mortar until it is quite smooth ; pass 
through a fine sieve. Put the panada in the mortar ; add 
by degrees, pounding all the time, the butter and the fish- 
paste. When all is well mixed add the eggs one by one, 
never ceasing to pound. Before taking the farce from the 
mortar it is safer to try its consistency and seasoning. 
Take a piece as big as a walnut ; poach it for five 
minutes in boiling water salted. If it is not sufficiently 
firm add the yolk of an egg and a pinch of flour; mix 
well, and place the paste on a plate. 

123. Panada for Fish-paste. 

Take 2 oz. flour, the yolk of an egg, three-fourths of 
a teacupful of milk, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, 
a pinch of salt ; butter the bottom of a small stewpan ; 
add the flour, egg and salt ; mix all well with the milk ; 
stir all continually with a wooden spoon until it forms 
a thick paste without lumps, and detaches itself easily 
from the saucepan. Spread it upon a plate and let it 
quickly cool. 

124. Fish Quenelles 

{Quenelles de poisson). 

With the fish-paste (No. 122) large quenelles are made 
for entries, also small ones for garnishing for ragotits 
and vol-au-vent. Flour the paste -board ; take a good 
dessert-spoonful of the farce ; roll it in the form of a 
cork between 2 and 3 inches long. Six are sufficient 
for six persons. Put 2 quarts of water into a deep stew- 
pan with some salt ; when it boils place the quenelles in 



fish. 47 

delicately ; remove the pan to the side of the fire ; let 
them cook gently for eight or ten minutes. Take out 
the quenelles one by one with a slice ; arrange them on 
an *«/r/<?-dish. Cover them with any sauce preferred. 

125. Boudins of Fish with Prawns 
(Boudins de poisson aux crevettes). 

Cut in small dice two dozen shelled prawns and twelve 
button mushrooms ; mix them with half their quantity of 
bichamel sauce (No. 98), rather thick and well seasoned. 
Put this mixture upon a plate to cool, spreading it to 
about the thickness of J^ inch. Flour the board ; take a 
good table-spoonful of fish-paste (No. 122); roll it in the 
form of a quenelle; with the handle of a knife flatten it in 
the form of a square rather less than ^ inch thick ; wet 
the edges of it with a small paste-brush. Cut a small 
piece of the prawn paste rather more than an inch in 
length ; place it in the middle of the fish farce ; turn up 
the ends of this all round to keep the mixture in ; roll the 
pudding into the form of a quenelle, then flatten it a little. 
Cook the puddings in salted water for eight minutes (see 
No. 124). Drain well and arrange them on a plate. Pour 
over them any good fish sauce made with lobster butter 
(No. 27). 

126. Fish in a Mould 
{Pain de poisson a la creme). 

Make a good cream sauce (No. 103) ; let it cool, stirring 
frequently to prevent a skin forming on the top ; then mix 
it by degrees to 1 lb. of fish-paste (No. 122), stirring all 
the time with a wooden spoon. See if sufficiently seasoned. 
Butter very well a mould with or without a cylinder ; fill it 
to within an inch of the top with the mixture. Put the 
mould in a bain-marie or saucepan containing water reach- 
ing to half the height of the mould ; bring it to the boil ; 
remove to the side of the fire, covering tightly, then keep 
it just bubbling for three-quarters of an hour. It should 



48 fish. 

then be rather firm to the touch. Before arranging it let 
the mould remain an instant out of the water, then pass 
a small knife round it to loosen it from the mould. Make 
a rich white sauce ; add a few capers. Pour a little sauce 
over the fish-mould ; serve the rest in a sauce-boat. Of 
course the fish must be turned out of the mould before 
sending to table. 

127. Turbot with Mushrooms 

{Turbot a la Mornay). 

Boil a piece of turbot in the ordinary manner; drain it; 
lift the fillets from the bones and take off the black skin. 
Take some fish stock and bichamel sauce — the stock is 
simply to reduce the sauce, as the latter must not be too 
thick — and a little mushroom essence. Thicken the sauce 
with two or three yolks of eggs, a teaspoonful of essence 
of anchovies, a pinch of cayenne. Place in a deep dish 
a layer of sauce ; arrange the fillets of turbot on it, 
then another layer of sauce ; sprinkle over the surface 
grated Parmesan cheese and baked bread-crumbs; pour 
over a little butter reduced to oil ; let all take colour in 
the oven. If desired, a border of mashed potatoes can be 
placed round before baking. 

128. Grilled Herrings, Mustard Sauce 

{Haretigs /rat's, Sauce moutarde). 

Scrape and empty the herrings; score them lightly with 
a knife — merely cutting a trifle below the skin — the whole 
length slantwise. Steep them for ten minutes in a table- 
spoonful of oil ; pepper and salt ; arrange them on the 
gridiron. Cook them at a brisk fire for five minutes on 
one side ; turn them on the other for the same length of 
time. Mix on a plate a piece of fresh butter with a 
teaspoonful of English (raw) mustard. Serve the herrings 
upon this sauce. 



FISH. 49 

129. Soles with Butter 
{Soles au beurre). 

Arrange the soles on a buttered dish which will bear 
the heat of the oven ; season with salt, pepper, and baked 
bread crumbs ; pour over 3 oz. of clarified butter. Put 
the plate in the oven to cook about ten to fifteen minutes ; 
squeeze over when done the juice of a lemon. Serve up 
on the same plate. 

Note. — Plaice, sea-bream, grey mullet, are all excellent 
cooked in this simple manner. The quantity of butter 
and the time necessary for cooking must be varied ac- 
cording to the size of the fish. 

130. Soles in White Wine 

{Soles au vin blanc). 

Butter a dish (for the oven) ; place at the bottom an 
onion cut in thin slices, a sprig of parsley, a leaf of laurel ; 
place the soles on this dressing ; cover them with white 
wine and a little water or stock, a pinch of salt, the same 
of pepper. Cover the dish either with another dish or 
with buttered paper ; place on the stove or in a hot oven ; 
cook ten to fifteen minutes. Make a little white thickening 
with 1 oz. of butter and the same quantity of flour ; moisten 
it with the liquor from the soles ; thicken with the yolk 
of an egg and a good piece of fresh butter. Arrange the 
soles on a dish j pour the sauce over. 

131. Fillets of Sole fried in Batter 

{Filets de sole marine's en beignets). 

Fillet three soles ; cut these in halves across. Place 
them in a deep dish with three table- spoonfuls of vinegar, 
one of best olive-oil, chopped chives, parsley, salt and 
pepper ; leave them for an hour, turning frequently. Ten 
minutes before serving drain the fillets ; dip them into fry- 
ing batter (see No. 132), then into the hot fat or oil (No. 

D 



50 FISH. 

106); fry them a beautiful colour (five or six minutes); 
drain them ; keep them warm until all are finished. Fry 
a handful of parsley. Arrange the fillets on a dish covered 
with a napkin or fish paper ; pile them up in the form of a 
dome. Place the parsley on the top. Serve with tartar, 
rimoulade, or piquante sauce. 

132. Batter for Frying 

(P&te cifrire). 

Place in a basin }( lb. of flour ; moisten it with i gill 
of warm water ; make a smooth paste ; add a pinch of salt 
and a table-spoonful of olive-oil ; mix well. Beat up three 
or four whites of eggs to a stiff froth ; mix them with the 
batter as lightly as possible. 

133. To beat up White of Eggs. 

They should be beaten with a whisk until in holding up 
the whisk the egg will stand out from it in stiff points and 
not fall : it will be firm to the touch. When once this 
egg is added to any mixture all beating must cease, but be 
simply and gently stirred in until blended with the rest. 
The success of scores of dishes depends upon these in- 
structions being carefully and intelligently followed. 

134. Fillets of Soles stuffed 

{Filets de sole rouh ! s, Paupiettes). 

Fillet three soles of equal size; moisten them with a 
little water; flatten them lightly with the blade of a knife; 
trim them all alike ; season with salt and pepper. Spread 
over each fillet a thin layer of fish-paste (No. 122); roll 
each one in the form of a cork ; tie with string at both 
ends to keep them in shape ; arrange them in a buttered 
stewpan side by side. Have ready some stock made from 
the bones of the soles, 1 quart of white wine and water 
mixed, one carrot and one onion sliced, a bouquet of laurel, 



FISH. 51 

parsley, and thyme, salt and some grains of peppercorns. 
Strain this stock over the soles — it should just cover 
them ; cook slowly for fifteen minutes. When they are 
tender make a sauce with the liquor that remains, and 
thickened with two yolks of eggs and 1 oz. of butter ; 
strain ; beat up the sauce for an instant, and taste if suffi- 
ciently seasoned. The best sauce for the above is the 
butter sauce (No. 84). Take off the string ; trim each 
fillet evenly at both ends ; arrange them on a dish in the 
form of a pyramid, and pour over a little of the sauce. 
Place upon each fillet a small mushroom, and place croHtons 
of fried bread round the dish. The remainder of the sauce 
to be sent to table in a sauce-boat. (Fried croutons, see 
No. 33.) 

Note. — A little parsley to be added to the fish paste. 

135. Soles Normandy Fashion 

(So/es a la normande). 

Take the heads off two large soles ; split them the 
whole length on one side, slightly loosening the bones 
from the flesh. Butter thickly a fireproof dish ; place at 
the bottom an onion cut in thin rings and a laurel-leaf, 
then the soles, the split side underneath. Cover with 
white wine and stock, and cook in the oven. Baste the 
fish occasionally, and take them out when ready. With 
the liquor prepare a sauce, using 1 oz. of butter and the same 
of flour ; add also the liquor from two dozen oysters that 
have been poached in a little white wine or stock. Add to 
the sauce the oysters, some mussels, button mushrooms, 
prawns or shrimps, shelled, and some very small rissoles of 
fish -paste {Quenelles, No. 122). Arrange the soles on a 
dish, and pour the sauce over. 

136. Fillets of Soles Rich 

{Filets de sole a la Joinville). 
Take twelve fillets of equal size ; flatten them lightly ; 



52 FISH. 

season with salt and pepper. Spread upon each a thin 
Jayer of fish-paste (No. 122), to which two chopped truffles 
have been added. Fold each fillet in two, lengthwise, 
enclosing fish-paste. Arrange them side by side in a well- 
buttered dish ; pour over the juice of a lemon and a little 
clarified butter. Cover them with a round of buttered 
paper, and cook slowly on the stove or in the oven, but 
do not allow them to take colour. Spread a thin layer 
(less than half an inch) of fish-paste on the dish which 
has to be sent to table, and brush over with melted 
butter. Place the dish in the oven for an instant to 
render the paste firm. Make a butter sauce (No. 84) ; 
add some lobster or shrimp butter (No. 27); garnish with 
chopped truffle and prawns. Arrange the fillets, well 
drained and trimmed, on the paste ; raise them in the 
form of a crown ; place on the top of each sole the tail 
of a prawn not shelled. Pour a little sauce into the well 
formed by the fillets, the remainder into a sauce-boat for 
table. 

137. Grilled Mackerel 

(Maquereau grilli). 

Split the mackerel ; salt and pepper it inside ; moisten 
it with a table-spoonful of olive-oil or oiled butter ; sprinkle 
with baked bread-crumbs ; grill it for eight or ten minutes, 
or on a plate in a good oven. Arrange it in a plate with 
maitre d'hdtel butter (No. 83) placed in the middle of the 
fish, or, if preferred, black butter (No. 138). 

138. Black Butter 

(Beurre noir). 

Melt in a small pan ^ lb. of butter ; let it brown — on 
no account allow it to blacken — then let it get half cold. 
Reduce a wine-glassful of vinegar to one-half, with a little 
pepper ; add this to the browned butter ; let it boil. Pour 
over the fish. 



fish. 53 

139. Salt Cod 

(Morue salie). 

Wash the fish, then let it soak in cold water for twenty- 
four hours, changing the water four or five times. Place 
the cod in a saucepan with cold water to cover it. Bring 
it gently to the boil on a slow fire ; then remove the sauce- 
pan to the side, and simmer fifteen to twenty minutes. 
Drain the fish ; remove the skin and bones as much as 
possible ; arrange it on a plate. Serve with any of the 
following sauces. 

140. Melted Butter 

(Au beurre fondu). 

Melt without boiling ^ lb. of fresh butter, salt, pepper, 
the juice of half a lemon ; pour over the cod. Serve at 
the same time plain boiled potatoes. 

141. Fried Bread Sauce 

(Au pain frit). 

Clarify ^ lb. of fresh butter ; when it is clear add a 
good pinch of baked bread-crumbs ; fry for an instant, 
stirring all the time ; add salt and pepper. Pour over 
the cod. 

142. Onion Sauce for Cod 

(Aux oignons frits). 

Put % lb. of clarified butter in a small pan ; add a 
chopped onion, salt, and pepper ; fry a good colour. Pour 
over the fish. 

143. Cream Sauce for Cod 
(Sauce a la crime, No. 75). 



54 FISH. 

144. Lobster American Fashion 

{Homard a famiricaine). 

Fry two finely chopped shallots for two minutes in butter. 
Add the lobster cut in slices, salt and pepper ; fry it like- 
wise. Sprinkle over a table-spoonful of flour ; add ^ pint 
of stock, the same of white wine, two table-spoonfuls of 
purie of tomatoes, and a pinch of cayenne. Cover and 
cook briskly for twenty minutes. The sauce must reduce 
to one-half. Arrange the lobster upon a dish ; taste the 
sauce if properly seasoned ; add the juice of a lemon and 
i oz. of butter, mixing briskly for an instant. Pour over 
the lobster. 

145. Lobster Salad 

{Salade de homard). 

Cut the flesh from the lobster into thin slices, place them 
on a plate, and season with pepper and salt. Pour over 
them one table-spoonful of oil and one of vinegar, and 
let them remain for a short time. Take the inside from 
the claws and cut it into dice ; put this into a basin, and 
add a few cooked young green peas, French beans, carrots, 
and turnips (the two latter to be cut into dice and cooked 
separately). Add one teaspoonful each of chopped capers 
and gherkins. Season with pepper and salt. Melt one 
cupful of meat jelly, and when nearly cold add it gradually 
to ]/ 2 pint of stiff mayonnaise sauce. (If the meat jelly is 
added too warm the mayonnaise will be spoiled.) Mix the 
mayonnaise and meat jelly, a little at a time, with the vege- 
table salad, then pour into a mould, and place on ice to 
set. When firm dip into warm water, and turn out on a 
round dish. Garnish round the base with small sections 
of hard-boiled egg. Arrange the thin slices of lobster on 
the top, and place in the centre the heart of a lettuce in 
the form of a fan. Serve with a sauce-boat of mayonnaise 
sauce (No. 8o). 



fish. 55 

146. Lobster Curry 

( Cart de homard). 

Colour some chopped onion or shallot in butter ; lay in 
the lobster cut in slices ; add salt and a teaspoonful of 
curry ; shake all briskly. Add a table-spoonful of flour 
and sufficient stock to cover them. Cook quickly for 
twenty minutes. The sauce must reduce to one-half. Mix 
up the yolks of two eggs with a wine-glassful of cream ; 
thicken the curry with it, and add i oz. of fresh butter and 
the juice of half a lemon. Grill some slices of bread ; place 
them at the bottom of the e «/Wtf-dish. Turn the curry over 
the slices of bread, and serve. 

147. Lobster Cutlets 

( Cotelettes de homard a la Windsor). 

Cut the flesh of the lobster into small pieces, and some 
truffles and mushrooms the same size. Mix them with 
some thick bkhamel sauce (No. 98), in the same manner 
as for croquettes of meat (No. 162). Let the mixture 
cool, and divide it into as many pieces as desired. Roll 
them in bread - crumbs, form into cutlets ; pass them 
through beaten egg and again through bread-crumbs. Fry 
them a beautiful colour ; drain. Place in each a small 
handle formed from the small fine bones or claws of the 
lobster, on which must be arranged a small cutlet - frill. 
Arrange the cutlets on a dish in the form of a crown (at 
the bottom of the dish can be first placed either grilled 
bread or curried rice). Pour the sauce into the centre 
of the dish. 

148. Mussels boiled 

{Monies au naturel). 

Clean and wash the mussels in several waters ; put them 
in a stewpan ; cover them with water ; cook them ten 
minutes. Arrange them on a dish. Serve with butter 



56 FISH. 

dissolved to oil, a little salt, the juice of a lemon, and a 
little nutmeg ; the seasoning to be added to the butter 
and served in a sauce-boat. 



149. Stewed Mussels 

(Moules a la mariniere). 

Put in a stewpan 2 oz. of butter and a chopped onion ; 
colour for two minutes over the fire ; add half a tumbler 
of white wine ; put in the mussels ; salt and pepper. When 
the mussels have been cooking for ten minutes, and they 
are quite open, arrange them in a deep dish. Reduce the 
liquor in the stewpan to one-half, then add a good piece 
of fresh butter, chopped parsley, and the juice of a lemon ; 
stir until quite smooth. Pour over the mussels. 

150. 

{Bouillabaisse a la provenfale.) 

Take several kinds of fish — among them should be 
red mullet and crayfish — and cut them into medium slices. 
Place in a stewpan half a glass of oil, one chopped onion, 
one clove of garlic ; let all take a pale colour on the 
fire. Add the fish ; season with salt, laurel-leaf, one or 
two peeled tomatoes squeezed and chopped, a lemon cut 
up — free from skin and pips— a little saffron, a sprig of 
fennel, half a glass of white wine, and warm water to cover 
all. Boil as quickly as possible for fifteen minutes, when 
the fish should be cooked, and the liquor have become 
slightly thickened. Add a teaspoonful or more of chopped 
parsley and a little more garlic, also chopped. Boil up 
again ; then pour the soup over some slices of bread cut 
rather thick and placed in a deep dish. Arrange the fish 
and dressings upon another plate, removing the laurel and 
lemon. Serve fish and bread together. 



fish. 57 

151. Mullets in Wine 

{Hougets au vin blanc). 

Arrange the mullets in a dish for the oven ; bake them 
in the following sauce. When cooked, mash the livers 
of the mullets into the sauce. Sauce. — One table-spoonful 
of oil, half a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, one teaspoonful 
of Harvey sauce. The fish will only take half an hour to 
bake. When half done, sprinkle with chopped parsley, 
shallot, mushroom, and add half a tumblerful of sherry. 
Baste frequently. The above quantities are only sufficient 
for two medium-sized mullets. 

152. Grilled Mullets 

(Rougets grillis). 

Wrap the fish in buttered white paper, grill, and serve 
up with lemon-juice. Never remove the insides from red 
mullet. 



58 



BEEF. 



Directions for boiling Meat. 

When boiled meat is intended to be eaten and not for 
soup, it should be plunged into fast-boiling water sufficient 
to well cover it, then at once moved on one side of the 
stove to simmer gently until tender. The water it has 
been boiled in will be of little if any good : all the strength 
will have remained in the joint. When the object is to 
make good soup, then the meat must be put into cold 
water. Many cooks take it out when tender and send it 
to table, in my opinion spoiling two good things : the soup 
will be poor, and half the goodness taken from the meat. 

153. Boiled Beef 

(Bocuf bouilli). 

Boil the beef as for pot-ati-feu (No. 12). It must not be 
too much cooked. Serve with the vegetables round it 
and with a sauce in a sauce-boat — for preference, horse- 
radish, piquante, tomato, or sauce Robert. 

154. Miroton of Boiled Beef 

(Miroton de boeuf). 

Cut the remains of boiled beef in slices. Shred up two 
onions ; colour them lightly in 1 oz. of butter ; add a 
table-spoonful of flour ; stir an instant ; moisten with a 



BEEF. 59 

tumbler of white wine and broth. Make rather a thin 
sauce ; add pepper, salt, and a laurel-leaf ; colour with a 
few drops of caramel. Add the meat ; let it simmer (not 
boil) fifteen to twenty minutes. The sauce should then 
be reduced one-third. Take out the laurel-leaf; arrange 
the ragotit on a dish ; sprinkle over it chopped parsley. 
Serve with it potatoes baked in their skins. 

155. Boiled Beef with Cheese 
(Bceuf bouilli au gratin). 

Prepare the miroton of beef (No. 154); arrange it on 
a plate that will stand the fire ; sprinkle it with grated 
cheese and baked bread-crumbs, and put the dish in the 
oven until it takes a pretty colour. Parmesan cheese is 
the best. 

Note. — For preparing bread-crumbs, see Directions at 
the commencement of the book. 

156. Hashed Beef 

(Matelotte de bouilli.) 

Cut boiled beef in slices. Peel two dozen button 
onions ; put them in a stewpan with a piece ot butter and 
a teaspoonful of sugar (white powdered) ; sprinkle with 
a table-spoonful of flour; moisten with red wine and 
broth ; add a bouquet of parsley, laurel, and thyme ; salt 
and pepper. Make all into a thin sauce, and cook ten 
minutes. Add the meat ; let all cook (not boil) another 
half hour. The onions should then be tender, and the 
sauce reduced one-half. 

157. Hashed Beef (another way) 

{Bceuf .bouilli saute"). 

Cut the remains of beef into small squares ; colour a 
sliced onion in butter or good dripping ; add the meat, 
salt, and pepper ; shake briskly in such a manner that 



60 BEEF. 

meat and onions arc lightly grilled. Before serving, add a 
little good vinegar, chopped chives and parsley. 

158. Boiled Beef fried 

{Ba-uf bouilli marine" et frit). 

Cut the remains of beef into slices, as regular as pos- 
sible ; place them in a deep dish in which has been mixed 
a table-spoonful of oil, the same of vinegar, salt, pepper, 
fine herbs, and a little chopped shallot ; leave them for 
half an hour, turning frequently. Make a frying batter (No. 
132), adding to it the marinade or seasoning in which the 
meat has been soaked. Pass each piece of meat through 
the batter, then into hot frying fat. This should be done 
quickly, and the slices fried to a beautiful golden colour. 

159. Hashed Beef with Chestnuts 

(Hachis de bauf aux marrons). 

Chop finely any small remains of beef. Colour a 
chopped onion in 1% oz. of butter; add the same 
quantity of flour, and moisten with stock or water and 
half a tumbler of white wine. Season with salt, pepper, 
and nutmeg ; stir all until boiling, making a sauce not 
too thick. Add the chopped meat ; cook for twenty 
minutes. If the hash is too thin, add some baked 
bread-crumbs. Finish with chopped parsley and chives. 
Place on a dish, pour over some good gravy, and surround 
with glazed chestnuts (No. 160). 

160. Glazed Chestnuts. 

Take y 2 lb. of chestnuts ; cut an incision all round ; 
put them on the fire in cold water ; boil for two or three 
minutes ; take them out and strip them while hot of the 
outer and inner skins. Put them in a stewpan ; merely 
cover them with water and a piece of butter the size of a 



BEEF. 6 1 

walnut : a few drops of caramel, a pinch of white powdered 
sugar. Let them cook until all the liquid is reduced. 

161. Rissoles of Beef 

{Rissoles de dosuf). 

Make a hash with the meat, and sauce as in No. 159, 
with the addition of three gherkins cut in small dice, and 
the whole should be firm. Put it on a plate and let it get 
cold. Have ready ^ lb. of short crust about the thick- 
ness of a 5s. piece (No. 579). Take small portions of the 
hash about the size of a walnut ; place them on the pastry at 
a distance from the edge of it of about two inches, and the 
same distance between each little ball of hash ; moisten 
the paste all round the meat, then turn the border of paste 
right over the meat — it must be quite covered ; press with 
the fingers so that the paste is well and firmly joined ; cut 
out the rissoles with a plain or fluted cutter — they should 
present the form of a small jam -puff. Continue in this 
manner until meat is used up, placing the rissoles as they 
are cut on a floured tin. If the rissoles are made with 
short crust they are best fried. The frying fat must not 
be too hot when they are first put in. If they are made 
with puff-paste (No. 585) they must be baked in the oven, 
having first brushed them over with beaten egg. 

162. Croquettes of Beef 

{Croquettes de boeuf). 

Cut the remains of beef into small dice. Mix equal 
quantities of flour and butter (about 1 oz. of each) in a 
pan ; moisten with a cupful of milk or stock ; make of this 
a sauce so thick that it boils with difficulty. The sauce 
must be in the proportion of one-third of the quantity of 
meat, merely sufficient to make the meat smooth. Mix 
meat and sauce together ; stir over the fire until it begins 
to simmer ; add salt, pepper, nutmeg, chopped parsley, two 
or three gherkins chopped ; add an egg and a small piece 



62 BEEF. 

of butter ; turn all on to a flat dish, spreading it to about 
the thickness of i ^ inch. Lightly butter the surface to 
prevent it becoming dry ; let it cool. Take pieces of the 
preparation about the size of an egg ; place them on a 
paste-board which has been sprinkled with baked bread 
crumbs. When all the meat is divided roll each piece 
into the shape of a cork, taking care it is evenly rolled 
and without cracks ; pass each croquette into beaten egg, 
then through the bread-crumbs again. They must be com- 
pletely covered with the crumbs, well rolled and regular in 
form. Plunge them into the hot frying fat ; fry them a 
golden colour ; take them out ; arrange them in a pyramid 
on a dish upon which a napkin or paper has been placed. 
Place on the top a bouquet of fried parsley. Good 
gravy, sauce Robert, or sauce gratin may be served with 
the croquettes. 

Note. — In a small household, if more convenient, these 
croquettes can be fried in butter in a small frying-pan : in 
that case they must be flattened a little and turned once 
in the pan. 

163. Meat Scallops 
{Coquilles de viande au gratin). 

Cut the remains of beef or veal into small squares ; mix 
them with half their bulk of sauce, white or brown, well 
and highly seasoned. Fill some buttered shells with the 
mixture, piling the mixture higher in the middle than at 
the sides ; smooth the top with a knife ; sprinkle over 
them some baked bread-crumbs and grated cheese, and 
above all place a piece of butter. Place them in a hot 
oven to take colour. 

161 Boiled Beef in Vinegar Sauce 

{Bmuf bouilli en vinaigrette). 

Cut the remains of beef into small squares ; prepare 
in a salad-bowl a vinaigrette sauce (No. 97); place the 
meat in it half an hour before serving. 



BEEF. 63 

165. Braised Beef 

{Bceuf a la casserole). 

Place at the bottom of a stewpan a little good dripping 
or clarified suet, some trimmings of bacon, a little carrot, 
one onion stuck with two cloves, a clove of garlic (if 
flavour is not objected to). Place on the top a piece of 
beef about 3 to 4 lb. in weight, surrounded by some bones 
well broken, a pinch of salt and pepper. Keep the cover 
off, and let all colour gently over a slow fire for twenty- 
five minutes, turning frequently ; moisten with half a glass 
of white wine and two or three ladlefuls of stock. Let 
all cook for four hours. To see if the meat is cooked 
pierce it with a larding-needle : if it goes easily through, 
it is done. Arrange the meat on a dish ; if the gravy is 
very much reduced, add a little stock. Strain through a 
fine strainer into a small stewpan ; let it remain a little ; 
take off the grease from the top. The gravy should be 
rich and smooth. Pour a little over the meat ; put the 
rest in a sauce-tureen. Serve with a purie of potatoes or 
a dish of macaroni (No. 18). 

166. Ragout of Beef 

{Ragout de dam/). 

Take 3 or 4 lb. of beef; divide it into three pieces and 
lard them. Prepare in a dish one and a half tumblerful 
of white wine, half a tumbler of vinegar, a clove of garlic, 
a bouquet of parsley, laurel, thyme, pepper, and salt. Let 
the meat soak in this twenty-four hours. Put the meat 
and the dressing into a stewpan with a little good drip- 
ping ; cover the stewpan, and let it cook at a good fire 
until the liquid becomes reduced and the meat begins to 
frizzle in the fat ; turn the meat about until it takes colour ; 
at this point put it on a plate. Pour away some of the fat 
from the bottom of the pan ; add a spoonful of flour ; make 
a little thickening ; moisten with a quart of stock ; detach 
all gravy well from the bottom of the pan ; stir well to mix 



64 BEEF. 

all into a thin sauce. Place the meat in the sauce ; let 
it cook at a gentle regular heat until tender. The gravy 
should be reduced one-half; it should be smooth and rich. 
Put the meat on a dish ; strain the gravy ; let it remain 
an instant. Take off the fat ; pour some over the meat ; 
send the remainder to table in a sauce-boat. A calPs foot 
boned and scalded can be cooked with advantage with 
this dish, 

167. Fillet of Beef 
{Filet de bxuf pique" rod). 

Take a piece of fillet between 4 and 5 lb. ; lard it and 
roast it either in front of the fire or in the oven, basting 
frequently with good dripping (the dripping to be put over 
it melted before putting it in the oven). Sprinkle with salt, 
and baste every ten minutes. If it takes colour too quickly, 
cover it with a greased paper ; if the meat is preferred 
underdone, one hour is sufficient. Place the fillet on a 
dish ; moisten the bottom of the baking-pan with a little 
water in order to detach all the gravy ; boil up ; strain the 
gravy through a strainer ; take away the grease ; pour a little 
over the meat, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. 

168. Fillet of Beef with Vegetables 

{Filet de bceuf garni jardiniere). 

Scrape two dozen small carrots ; if large ones only can 
be procured, trim and scoop them into the form of the 
small with a vegetable -scoop. Cook them in salt-water 
until they are tender ; pour cold water over them ; put 
them back in the stewpan with a pinch of white powdered 
sugar, a small piece of butter, a little stock or water ; let 
them cook until the liquid is reduced. Prepare in equal 
quantities, and in the same manner, turnips, small green 
haricots, and green peas ; the haricots and peas to be well 
scalded, then tossed in butter, sugar, salt, and pepper — 
the haricots without sugar. Trim a cauliflower into small 
bouquets ; boil them in salted water, keeping them rather 



BEEF. 65 

firm. Brussels sprouts can also be added. Cook a fillet 
of beef as in last recipe. All these vegetables are being 
prepared during the roasting of the fillet, and kept warm 
as they are ready. When done, place the fillet on a dish ; 
surround it by the vegetables arranged in small groups, 
assorting the different colours. Pour a little gravy over 
the meat, the remainder in the boat. 

169. Fillet of Beef Braised 

{Filet de bceuf braise, Sauce madere). 

Lard the fillet. Grease the bottom of a stewing-pan with 
good dripping or fat ; lay in pieces of fat bacon ; onion and 
carrots cut into slices ; a bouquet of laurel, thyme, parsley. 
Place in the fillet surrounded by the dressings, salt and 
pepper, and moisten with half a tumbler of stock. Place 
the pan on the fire lightly covered ; leave it until the liquid 
is reduced and the meat and vegetables have taken a brown 
tint — must not be burnt. Add half a tumbler of madeira 
or marsala and 1 quart of stock. Let all simmer gently, 
well covered, for about an hour and a half, then remove 
the cover and place the stewpan in a hot oven. Baste fre- 
quently with the gravy in order to glaze the fillet. Arrange 
it on a dish ; keep it hot. Strain the gravy ; let it stand 
a little ; take off the grease. Mix a teaspoonful of fecule 
(potato-flour) with a cupful of madeira or marsala wine, 
cold ; throw it into the boiling gravy, stirring or shaking 
all the time ; let it cook for an instant. Pour part over 
the meat, the remainder in the sauce-boat. 

170. Fillet of Beef with Olives 

{Filet de bceuf aux olives). 

Prepare 1 pint of sauce with olives (No. 67); add to it 
at the last moment the gravy from the roast fillet. Arrange 
the fillet on a dish ; surround it with the olives and a little 
sauce ; pour the remainder in a sauce-boat. For six persons, 
3 lb. of fillet, y 2 lb. olives, and 1 pint of sauce. 

E 



66 BEEF. 

171. Fillet with Mushrooms 

{Filet de bauf aux champignons). 

Prepare for a fillet of 5 lb. 1 quart of sauce and 1 lb. 
of preserved mushrooms, or 1 y? lb. of fresh. Strain the 
gravy from the roast or braised fillets ; take off the grease, 
reduce it, and add it to the mushroom sauce. 

172. Fillet with Stuffed Mushrooms 

{Filet de beeuf aux champignons farcis). 

Roast the fillet ; garnish it with mushrooms (No. 436). 
Serve the gravy separately. 

173. Fillet of Beef with Macaroni 

{Filet de bceuf aux macaronis). 

Roast or braise the fillet ; arrange it on the dish to be 
sent to table; place round it ^ lb. macaroni (No. 18), and 
pour some of the gravy of the fillet over the macaroni. 

174. Fillet of Beef with New Potatoes 

{Filet aux pommes de terre nouvelles). 

Surround the roast or braised fillet with small potatoes 
(No. 458)- 

175. Fillet of Beef with Lettuces 
{Filet de bozuf aux laitues farcies). 

See No. 421. 

176. Fillet of Beef with Tomatoes 
{Filet de bauf aux tomates farcies). 

See No. 436. 



BEEF. 67 

177. Fillet of Beef with Rice. 

{Filet de bceuf garni de risotto?) 

For 3 lb. of roast or braised fillet take % lb. rice (see 
No. 387). Cut the fillets in slices ; add them to the rice. 

178. Fillet of Beef, Sauce poivrade 

{Filet de bceuf marine', Sauce poivrade). 

Prepare the following marinade : one large onion sliced, 
one carrot do., one clove of garlic, some whole peppercorns, 
salt, a bouquet of thyme and laurel-leaves, 1 pint vinegar, 
1 quart water. Cook for fifteen minutes, and allow it to 
cool. Trim and lard a fillet of beef, and let it soak in the 
above marinade overnight. The following day take it out 
of the pickle and put in the baking-pan with the trimmings 
of the fillet ; pour over some good fat or beef-dripping 
melted ; let it cook one hour, basting frequently and 
adding a little from time to time of the pickle. When 
the fillet is nicely coloured place it on a dish. Scrape 
the bottom of the baking-pan with a little of the marinade; 
strain the gravy into a small stewpan ; take off the fat ; 
reduce it to a cupful ; with this glaze the fillet. Send 
poivrade sauce to table in a sauce-tureen for sauce (see 
No. 102), or a simple cream sauce (No. 75). 

179. A Simple Way to cook the Above. 

Prepare the fillet in the pickle the same as No. 177, only 
when it is nearly cooked add a cupful of cream ; baste 
frequently in order to glaze the meat. Take out the fillet ; 
keep it warm. Moisten the bottom of the baking-pan with 
the pickle, if there be any left ; if not, with broth. Strain 
into a small saucepan ; take off the grease. If the gravy 
is too thin, reduce it ; thicken it with a teaspoonful of 
potato-flour mixed in a cup of cream ; add a pinch of 
pepper ; warm for an instant. 



68 BEEF. 

180. To employ the Trimmings of the Fillet 

(Navarin). 

In households where the fillet is frequently used the 
following is an economical manner of employing the trim- 
mings from it. Prepare all the pieces carefully ; take away 
all gristle ; cut them in equal sizes ; place them in a dish 
with salt, pepper, bouquet of laurel, parsley, thyme, an 
onion stuck with three cloves; moisten with a tumbler- 
ful of white wine, half a tumbler of marsala ; let the meat 
remain in this six hours. Drain the pieces of fillet, reserv- 
ing the pickle ; dry the meat in a cloth. Melt t oz. of 
butter with }£ lb. of bacon cut in dice ; mix all with the 
meat ; stir over the fire until it takes colour ; sprinkle over 
it a table-spoonful of flour ; cover all with the pickle and 
stock ; cover the pan ; cook at a moderate fire. Have 
ready some turnips, either cut in quarters or with a vege- 
table-cutter ; colour them in i oz. of butter and a pinch of 
white sugar ; add them to the ragout. Continue the stew- 
ing. This ragout will take quite two hours. Let it stand 
twenty-five minutes before serving in order to take off all 
grease very carefully. 

181. Grilled Beefsteaks 

(Bifteck grille naturel). 

Trim the steak and take away all gristle ; cut it across 
in slices about two-thirds of an inch thick ; flatten them 
lightly. Put them on a plate ; season with salt and pepper, 
and moisten with a teaspoonful of olive-oil or oiled butter. 
Warm the gridiron, place the steaks on it, and grill over 
a clear fire for four or five minutes, then turn on the 
other side for the same length of time. Put on a hot 
plate to serve. 



BEEF. 69 

182. Beefsteak fried 

{Bifteck a la poele). 

Warm 1 oz. butter in the small frying-pan ; place in the 
steak cut as in No. 181, but simply seasoned with salt 
and pepper ; cook four or five minutes on one side, turn, 
the same time for the other. Arrange on a dish ; add one 
or two teaspoonfuls of gravy or water to the gravy in the 
pan ; scrape, boil up, and throw over the steak. 

183. A Beefsteak with Parsley Butter 

{Bifteck a la maitre d'hotel). 

Prepare the steak either grilled or in the pan ; place on 
a hot dish ; lay on the top of it a piece of butter (No. 85) ; 
place the dish on the stove or in the oven to allow the 
butter to half melt. Serve. 

184. Beefsteaks with Anchovy Butter 

{Biflecks au beurre d'anchois). 

Cook the steak exactly as in No. 182, putting anchovy 
butter (No. 92) over. 

185. Beefsteak with Egg 
{Bifteck a I'ceuf), 

Cook the steak in the pan ; arrange it on a plate ; break 
an egg into the pan. It must be done with care in order 
to keep it whole. When the egg is set take it out with the 
slice and place it on the steak. 

Note. — Recipes are given above for grilling and frying, 
as there are many kitchens in which the latter mode is 
always favoured, possibly because it is the easier; but 
in the opinion of the writer the two methods do not admit 
of comparison, grilling being by far the superior. 



70 BEEF. 

186. Hungarian Beefsteaks 

(Biftecks a la hongroise). 

Cut the steaks thin ; season them with salt and red 
pepper (not cayenne). Colour the steaks in 2 oz. of 
butter, but they must not be completely cooked. Chop 
up finely two onions ; place half of it in a deep dish that 
can be sent to table ; arrange the steaks upon it; sprinkle 
them with the remainder of the onions ; throw the gravy 
from the pan, with gravy or stock added, to allow the 
steaks to be half soaked in it. Cover completely with 
a metal cover or with another dish, and paste the border 
between the two dishes with some paste made of flour-and- 
water. Cook in the oven for one hour. Before serving, 
baste the steaks with a cupful of sour cream and a little 
stock. Serve in the same dish. 

187. Beefsteaks and Potatoes 

(Biftecks a la bonne fetnme). 

Butter well a dish that will stand the oven, or a small 
pipkin with a cover. Slice a large onion ; place half of 
it at the bottom of the dish ; upon them spread a layer 
of raw potatoes, sliced ; arrange upon these the steaks well 
seasoned ; sprinkle with another layer of the onions and 
one of potatoes ; salt and pepper ; half cover with stock ; 
cover the plate or pipkin quite close. Cook on the stove 
or in the oven for one hour. 

188. Russian Steaks 

(Biftecks a la russe). 

Take 1 lb of lean meat from a good part of the beef, 
that which contains the most gravy ; chop it very finely, 
place it in a dish, and season with salt and pepper. Add 
by small pieces at a time % lb. °f butter ; work with a 
wooden spoon, or, what is preferable, pound in a mortar 



BEEF. 71 

while the butter is being added by degrees. Flour the 
board ; divide the meat into about six or eight pieces ; 
roll them with flour into balls ; flatten these balls with 
a knife into a round form, making them about one-third 
of an inch thick. Beat up an egg with a teaspoonful 
of olive-oil ; dip the steaks into this, then roll them in 
bread-crumbs, taking care not to spoil their shape. Melt 
1 oz. of butter (clarified) in a small frying-pan ; place in 
the steaks, and give three minutes to each side of them. 
Arrange them in a crown upon the dish ; pour into the 
middle madeira sauce (No. 66) or cream sauce (No. 75). 
If high seasoning is liked, add a little vinegar and a pinch 
of grated (not scraped) horse-radish. 



189. Fillets with Bearnaise Sauce 
{Entrecotes a la btarnaise). 

Grill them, or, if preferred, fry them in the pan. When 
ready to serve place some biarnaise sauce in the bottom of 
the dish (No. 72); arrange the meat on it; glaze them 
with a little good gravy reduced. Serve the remainder of 
sauce separately. 

Note. — The entrecote is cut from between the first ribs or 
from the ribs of the sirloin. 

190. Fillets with Marrow 

{Entrecotes a la moelle). 

Chop two shallots finely ; colour them in a little butter, 
and add half a tumbler of red or white wine. Reduce 
the same to half; add a piece of glaze about the size 
of a walnut or a little good gravy, chopped parsley, salt 
and pepper. Add the last thing, 2 oz. of beef-marrow 
boiled for three minutes in salted water and cut in slices 
or in small squares ; also the juice of a lemon. Cover 
the grilled steaks with this sauce. 



72 BEEF. 

191. Fillets with Truffles 

(Tournedos sauth aux truffes — Entr/e). 

These are cut from the round or end of the fillet ; 
they should be a little more than i inch thick and 
between 4 and 5 round. Trim them ; they should be 
all of equal size. Warm 2 oz. of butter in a pan ; 
add the tournedos which have been seasoned ; colour 
them quickly on both sides. Take out the meat ; add 
to the butter in the pan a small spoonful of flour, l / 2 
pint of good gravy, a cupful of red or white wine ; stir 
until the sauce boils ; add truffles cut in slices. Reduce 
the sauce by one-half. At this point put the tournedos 
back into it ; warm up ; add the juice of a lemon. Ar- 
range them in a dish in the form of a crown ; between 
each piece of meat place a fried crouton of bread trimmed 
in the shape of half a heart Pour the sauce in the 
middle of the dish. 

192. Fillets with Mushrooms 

(Tournedos sautis aux champignons). 

Trim and cook the tournedos as for No. 191 ; add 
to the sauce ]/2 lb. of mushrooms. Finish with the juice 
of half a lemon and a pinch of cayenne. 

193. Fillets with Vegetables 

(Tournedos a la crime — Entrie). 

Steep the tournedos, prepared as for No. 191, in a 
marinade or pickle (No. 178). Drain; dry them in 
a cloth ; season them. Colour them quickly on both 
sides in 1 oz. of butter made very hot ; put them on 
a plate. Put y 2 pint of the marinade (strained) into 
the pan ; let it reduce to one-third, then add a cup 
of good cream. Put the meat back in the sauce ; reduce 
the sauce quickly a little more. Arrange them in a 



BEEF. 73 

crown with croutons, as in No. 191. Pour the sauce 
in the middle. 

Note. — Tournedos can be served surrounded by various 
dressings, such as purk de pommes de terre (potatoes), 
tomatoes, spinach, green peas, asparagus points. 

194. Chateaubriand. 

This is a very thick steak cut from the rump or fillet 
over 2 inches thick. Grill it, allowing extra time on 
account of the thickness. Prepare upon the dish 1 oz. 
of butter worked with chopped parsley, juice of a lemon, 
and a teaspoonful of rich gravy from roast-beef, or melted 
glaze. Arrange the steak on this sauce ; surround it with 
small potatoes baked in butter. 

195. Ragout of Beef. 

{Ragout de batuf a la portugaise). 

Chop very finely 1 lb. of very lean beef, free from 
all gristle and fat ; season it with salt, pepper, chives 
and parsley, both chopped. Flour a board ; divide the 
meat into pieces the size of an egg, and roll them into 
balls with some flour. Cut into small squares 2 oz. of 
lean bacon ; colour them for two minutes in 1 oz. of 
butter. At this point add the meat-balls ; colour them 
also an instant, sprinkling them with a table-spoonful of 
flour. Half cover with stock, half a glass of white 
wine, and a few drops of caramel. Boil, stirring all the 
time, then add a fresh tomato chopped up, twenty-four 
small onions, the same number of chestnuts peeled and 
skinned (both skins come off easily by slitting the nut 
across and boiling them for a few minutes), a bouquet 
of laurel, parsley, and thyme. Cook for two hours slowly. 
The sauce should be reduced one-half, and the ragout 
well cooked without having lost its shape. Take out 
the bouquet and put all in a deep entre'e-d\sh, or into the 
middle of a border of rice cooked in fat stock, and very firm. 



74 BEEF. 

196. Boiled Tongue, Caper Sauce. 

(Langue de bceuf, Sauce aux capres). 

Take a fresh ox-tongue ; trim it from all pieces sticking 
to it from the throat. Put it on the fire in sufficient 
water to cover it ; boil it for two minutes ; strain it ; 
change the water and boil it up again, with its trim- 
mings. Add two carrots, one onion stuck with two 
cloves, one bouquet of laurel, thyme, parsley, and salt. 
Let it cook for four hours, longer if not tender ; take 
it out ; take off the skin and keep it warm in its stock. 
Take i oz. of butter, the same of flour, some of the 
stock, and half a glass of white wine ; make a good 
white sauce ; thicken it at the last moment with two 
yolks of eggs, a piece of fresh butter, and a handful of 
capers pickled in vinegar. Dish the tongue ; cut in two 
without dividing it. Cover it with part of the sauce ; 
send the rest to table in a sauce-boat. 

197. Braised Ox Tongue. 
(Langue de boeuf braisee). 

Boil a tongue for two hours, and take off the skin. 
Put it in a stewpan in which vegetables and pieces of 
bacon have been placed ; surround it with the trimmings 
ol the tongue ; season, and cook for two hours longer 
the same way as for braised beef. Serve the tongue 
whole ; glaze it with some of the gravy thickened with 
potato flour, or cut it in slices and arranged in a crown. 

Note. — Braised tongue may be served with various 
sauces, such as piquante, tomato, olive, and mushroom. 

198. Salt Tongue and Currant Sauce 

(Langue de boeuf, Sauce aux raisins de Corinthe). 

Boil and skin a salt tongue ; serve with the following 
sauce. Put in a stewpan half a glass of vinegar, a handful 
of currants well cleaned ; reduce the vinegar one-half. Add 



BEEF. 75 

one and a half tumblerful of brown sauce (No. 65), 
three dessert -spoonfuls of gooseberry jelly, and a pinch 
of pepper ; let it simmer. Serve with the tongue. 

199. Tripe 

{Tripes a la poulette). 

Cut in fillets or small squares 2 lb. of tripe well 
boiled. Chop one onion finely ; put it in a stewpan with 
1 1/2, oz. of butter ; colour lightly ; mix in a good dessert- 
spoonful of flour ; moisten with stock and half a glass 
of white wine to make a thin sauce ; season with salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg. Add the tripe ; cook for an hour ; 
the sauce must be reduced one-half. At the moment of 
serving thicken the ragout with two yolks of eggs mixed 
with the juice of a lemon, 1 oz. of fresh butter, and 
chopped parsley. Garnish the tripe on the dish with 
six croHtons of bread cut in shape of half a heart and 
fried in butter (No. 33). 

200. Tripe Lyons Fashion 

{Tripes a la lyonnaise). 

Cut in fillets or small squares 2 lb. of tripe well cooked. 
Slice a large onion ; put it in the frying-pan with 3 oz. of 
clarified butter, and cook a few minutes. It must not take 
colour. Add the tripe seasoned with salt and pepper ; stir 
them about at a brisk fire without leaving them, until all 
is a little coloured, then add some chopped parsley and 
a little vinegar. Serve very hot. 

201. Tripe Italian Fashion 

{Tripes a I'italienne). 

Two pounds of tripe well cooked ; cut in thin strips ; 
put them in a stewpan with 2 oz. of butter, 3 oz. of 
chopped mushrooms, salt, pepper, half a tumblerful of 
good gravy or stock ; cover, and let all cook until the 



76 BEEF. 

liquid is entirely reduced. Spread upon a fireproof dish 
that has been well buttered, a layer of tripe, a layer of 
tomato sauce rather thick ; sprinkle each layer with grated 
cheese; finish with the tomato. Sprinkle the top with 
grated cheese and baked bread-crumbs, then pour over a 
little butter melted to oil. Put the dish in the oven for 
fifteen minutes. 

202. Stewed Bullock's Heart 

(Cceur de bccuf a Vitouffe'e). 

Cut the heart in several pieces ; lard each piece ; put 
them in a pipkin or jar that has a cover ; season with salt, 
pepper, three cloves, nutmeg ; half a glass of vinegar. 
Leave the meat in this pickle for several hours ; turn all 
out, and colour the pieces of heart in a little melted lard. 
Add some small onions, two cloves of garlic, two calf's feet 
scalded and cut into small pieces, a bouquet of parsley, 
laurel, thyme, and the pickle or marinade. Moisten with 
red wine sufficient to cover the meat ; cover the pipkin 
lightly. Cook in the oven six hours. When all is well 
cooked take off the grease and serve in a deep dish. 



77 



M UTTON. 



203. Leg of Mutton braised 

( Gigot de mouton braisf). 

Trim the leg and lard it inside with seven or eight 
lardoons. Place at the bottom of a deep stewpan some 
pieces of bacon, a little good fat, two carrots, two large 
onions, a clove of garlic, a bouquet of laurel, thyme, and 
parsley. Place in the leg well tied up ; surround it with 
the dressings, two calf's feet boned and scalded, a pinch 
of salt and pepper ; moisten with y? pint of stock or water ; 
cover with a buttered paper, and cover the stewpan. When 
the liquid is reduced and the bottom of the stewpan com- 
mences to take colour, add stock or water to half cover 
the meat and two tomatoes. Continue to cook slowly for 
five hours with the stewpan covered ; turn the meat twice. 
See that it is tender. Dish it carefully ; strain the gravy 
and take off the grease. It should be rich and smooth j 
if too thin, reduce a little. 

204. Leg of Mutton dressed as Venison 

(Gigot de mouton fafon chevreuil). 

Take the bone from the thick part of the leg ; lard it 
on one side. Make a marinade with a quart of red wine, 
a wine-glassful of vinegar, a clove of chopped garlic, one 



78 MUTTON. 

onion and one carrot sliced, one bouquet of laurel, thyme, 
and parsley, a few grains of pepper and juniper. Place the 
leg in a stewpan tightly covered with all the marinade and 
a little stock ; cook slowly one hour. Take out the leg ; 
strain the gravy, and put it back in the stewpan with a 
table-spoonful of flour which has been previously mixed 
with a little cold water. When the sauce is cooked re- 
place the leg and continue the stewing for another hour ; 
at the end put the stewpan in the oven, the pan to be 
uncovered. This is to glaze the larded side of the leg. 
Dish the meat and take the grease from the gravy. This 
dish, if possible, should be cooked in a braising-pan. 



205. Shoulder of Mutton stuffed 

(Epaule de mouton farcie). 

Bone the shoulder completely ; spread it on the table ; 
season the inside with salt and pepper, and fill it with 
stuffing composed of ]/^ lb. of chopped pork or the same 
quantity of veal with 3 oz. of fat bacon, seasoned with 
spices and fine herbs. Roll up the shoulder and tie it 
lightly. Roast it for one and a quarter hour, or braise it 
for two hours in a stewpan the same as the leg (No. 204). 

206. Mutton with Lettuces 

{Mouton a la laitue). 

Cut up the remains of mutton in small slices ; have 
ready four or five hearts of lettuces well scalded in boiling 
salted water ; chop them, but not in small pieces. Warm 
a piece of butter in a stewpan ; add the lettuce, and at 
the same time a table-spoonful of flour ; season with salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg ; add sufficient stock to make a good 
sauce ; let all cook fifteen minutes. Add the meat ; let it 
warm through without boiling. 



MUTTON. 79 

207. Cutlets grilled 
(Cotelettes de mouton grill e"es). 

To cook a loin chop it is simply necessary to trim away 
a little of the superfluous fat and ugly pieces, then proceed 
exactly as for beefsteak grilled (No. 181). Serve very hot, 
and without gravy or sauce of any kind (unless desired). 
For neck chops, or what are called cutlets, they are prefer- 
able trimmed, and good use can be made of all the trim- 
mings taken from them. Take away the bone and gristle 
from the top of the cutlet ; chop off the bone short ; leave 
it about i inch long ; let it be well scraped from all fat or 
gristle ; take away also the large piece of gristle which sur- 
rounds the best part of the cutlet. Flatten them gently ; 
leave them about y? inch thick ; trim them into a round 
form — a little fat must be left round them ; season with 
salt and pepper ; moisten them with a table-spoonful of 
oil or dissolved butter ; grill over a clear fire — three min- 
utes on each side will be sufficient. Arrange them on a 
plate with some slices of lemon. Little frills should be 
arranged round the bones of the cutlets. 

These cutlets can of course be served up with purees 
of potato, spinach, sorrel, with small green peas cooked 
in butter, small new carrots, &c. 

208. Cutlets rolled in Bread-Crumbs 

( Cotelettes de mouton pane'es). 

Prepare and trim the cutlets as for grilling (No. 207) ; 
season ; dip them in a little dissolved butter ; roll them in 
bread-crumbs; grill or fry them (Nos. 181, 182). The 
fire should be a trifle less brisk than when no bread-crumbs 
are used, and a little more fat left round each cutlet than 
when it is simply grilled. These cutlets to be served the 
same as the others. A little cress, salt, and lemon-juice 
can be placed in the middle of the dish, or any vegetables 
prepared according to instructions which will be given 
farther on. 



80 MUTTON. 

209. Mutton Cutlets, Soubise Sauce 
( Cotelettes de mouton a la soubise). 

Prepare the cutlets according to recipes Nos. 207, 208 ; 
arrange them on a dish in the form of a crown, and pour 
soubise sauce in the middle. 

Soubise Sauce. — Peel five medium-sized onions ; chop 
them and boil in salted water until quite tender. Then 
drain ; pour cold water over them ; squeeze out all the 
water and pass through a tammy-cloth. Take 1^ oz. of 
butter and the same of flour; make a white thickening; add 
the purfo of onions, then add by degrees a cup of warm 
milk or gravy. Season with salt, a little powdered sugar, 
a pinch of cayenne. Cook for ten minutes. The soubise 
sauce should not be too thick. 

210. Haricot of Mutton 
(Haricot de mouton). 

The neck, breast, shoulder, are the most economical 
parts for this ragofit. A New Zealand neck of mutton, 
which can be procured for is. 6d., will make an excellent 
and inexpensive dish, the bones to be chopped and made 
the day previous into an excellent gravy for it (see No. 1 6) ; 
the fat melted down for use. In this manner a joint, which 
is usually considered a very extravagant one (which it is 
if bought for English meat and costs 5s.), is in reality one 
of the cheapest. 

Cut into squares of about 1 ^ inch 3 lb. mutton. Warm 
3 oz. of good fat in a stewpan ; add the pieces of meat 
(must be no fat on them), a good pinch of salt, one of 
pepper ; turn them frequently until they become a good 
colour. Take away part of the fat which lies at the 
bottom of the pan, and add to the meat three dessert- 
spoonfuls of flour. Add the gravy which has been made 
from the bones, and which should be a jelly — there should 
be enough to cover the meat ; stir over the fire until it 



MUTTON. 8 1 

boils. Colour with a little caramel ; season the sauce, 
which should be rather thin than thick. Twenty minutes 
later add a bouquet of parsley, thyme, marjoram, a tiny 
piece of chopped garlic (the latter of course only if not 
objected to), two carrots, two or three turnips — the small 
new ones are the best ; if the large ones, they must be 
shaped with a vegetable - cutter — twelve button onions, 
one of them pierced with three cloves (all these vege- 
tables must be coloured separately in a stewpan with 
butter and a pinch of powdered sugar). Cook gently 
for one and a half to two hours, taking great care that 
it does not stick to the bottom of the pan. Half an 
hour before it is done, or time according to the quality 
of the potatoes, place some new ones on the top of the 
ragout — if placed lower down they will absorb too much 
of the sauce ; failing new ones, shape some old potatoes 
with the cutter. A few new small green peas are an 
improvement. Remove all grease before serving, which 
can be easily done by allowing the saucepan to remain 
a little time away from the fire. The meat should be 
tender, the vegetables all whole, the sauce not too thick. 

211. Ragout of Mutton. Egyptian 

{Ragout de mouton a V Egyptienne). 

Prepare the meat the same as for No. 210. Put the 
pieces in a dish ; season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, ginger, 
and a cupful of vinegar ; let the meat remain in this 
for some hours. Chop up ^ lb. of lard in a stewpan ; 
let it melt. Put in the meat, well drained from the 
vinegar; colour it, moisten with the marinade; add two 
or three cloves of garlic, two laurel-leaves. The stewpan 
must be lightly closed, and it must all cook at a very 
slow fire as there will be so little liquid. When the 
meat is tender take off the grease and dish it up. Add 
some purfe of tomatoes to the sauce ; boil up and strain 
over the meat. 



82 MUTTON. 

212. Pilaff of Mutton 

(Pi/au de vtouton a Porientale), 

Take some fillets from a saddle of mutton, about 
1^4, lb. Remove the fat and gristle. Colour a chopped 
onion in butter ; put in the meat ; season ; colour it at 
a moderate fire, stirring well. When all has taken a 
good tint add ^ lb. of rice well washed and drained. 
Add stock to twice the height of the meat and rice ; 
a bouquet of parsley and laurel, and two small capsi- 
cums. When the rice has absorbed all the moisture 
add ^ lb. of butter coloured brown. Cover the pan 
and hold it a moment in the oven. Serve very hot. 

213. Sheep's Tongues 

{Langues de nwutori). 

Wash them well in cold water ; boil them for ten 
minutes and take off the skin. For eight tongues melt io 
oz. of lard ; add the tongues ; season ; let them take a 
good colour. Add a table-spoonful of flour, stock, a cup- 
ful of white wine, an onion stuck with cloves, a bouquet 
of parsley, thyme, and laurel. Cook at a moderate fire 
for half an hour, then add to the stew turnips, carrots, 
potatoes, cut with the cutter into small balls, a few 
young green peas. Continue to cook on the stove or 
in the oven. Tongues and vegetables should be tender 
at the same time. Arrange the tongues in the form of 
a crown, with the dressing in the middle. 

214. Sheep's Brains 

(Cerve/ks de mou to ri). 

Can be cooked the same as the recipes given farther 
on for calves' brains. 



MUTTON. 83 

215. Sheep's Kidneys 

{Rognons de mouton a la brochette). 

The kidneys must be very fresh. Take off the thin 
skin which covers them ; split them down the middle 
without separating the two parts ; hold them open while 
piercing them from one side to another with a skewer 
in wood or metal ; season with salt and pepper. Cook 
them in the pan in butter, or on the gridiron ; if on 
the latter, pass them first through a little oil or dis- 
solved butter. Four or five minutes on each side, 
either in the pan or on the gridiron, will cook them. 
Arrange them on a hot dish, take out the skewers, and 
place in the middle of each kidney a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut, maitre a" hotel (see No. 85). Place 
the dish at the entrance of the oven to half melt the 
butter. 

216. Sheep's Kidneys sautes 

{Rognons de mouton smite's). 

Proceed in the same manner as for veal kidneys (No. 
2 54)- 



84 



LAMB. 

217. Breasts of Lamb grilled 

(Poitrities d'agneau grilles). 

Boil in the stock-pot two or three breasts of lamb ; 
when they are quite tender take them out. Remove all 
the bones without putting them out of shape, and press 
between two plates. When cold trim them ; season with 
salt and pepper ; moisten with dissolved butter, and roll 
them in bread-crumbs. Grill them over a gentle fire, 
eight minutes on each side. Before serving cut them in 
equal-sized pieces ; dress them piled up on a dish. Serve 
with Italian sauce (No. 101). 

218. Stewed Lamb and Green Peas 

{Ragout d'agneau aux pel its pois). 

Cut in small pieces the breast and neck of lamb ; colour 
them in 2 oz. of butter ; season with salt and pepper ; 
shake over a good table-spoonful of flour ; moisten with 
stock sufficient to cover the meat ; stir until it boils. 
Add a bouquet of parsley, thyme, laurel, an onion 
pierced with two cloves, 1 quart of small young peas, 
a pinch of powdered sugar, a sprig of fresh mint. 
Cook for an hour and a quarter, or until the meat is 
tender and the sauce reduced one-half. Take out the 
bouquet of herbs and the onion ; thicken the ragout 
with two yolks of eggs and a small cup of cream. 



LAMB. 85 

219. Lamb Cutlets with Chestnuts 
(Cotelettes d'agneau a la puree de marrons). 

Trim twelve lamb cutlets (see No. 207); season with 
salt and pepper. Cook them according to any of the 
recipes given for cutlets (Nos. 207, 208). Arrange 
them in a crown upon a round dish with a purie of 
chestnuts in the centre ; pour a good rich gravy (not 
too thick) over all. 

Purie of Chestnuts. — Take 1 lb. of chestnuts ; make 
an incision round each. Put them on the fire in cold 
water ; cook for five minutes ; peel both skins off. Put 
them back in the stewpan ; cover them with water ; a 
pinch of salt, a small piece of butter, a pinch of sugar ; 
cook until they are tender and the liquid reduced to 
one-third. Pass them through a fine sieve. Return the 
puree to the stewpan ; stir an instant to make it smooth, 
and make it a iittle thinner with stock or milk ; warm it 
up, see if sufficiently seasoned ; finish with 1 oz. of fresh 
butter. 

220. Lamb Cutlets with sprew 

(Cotelettes d'agneau a la Brunswick). 

Trim and season twelve cutlets. Chop fine % lb. 
of lean cooked ham ; dip each cutlet into beaten egg, 
then roll them in the chopped ham. Place the cutlets 
in a frying-pan with ^ lb. of clarified butter; cook them 
five minutes on each side, turning them once. Arrange 
them on a dish in the form of a crown, with some 
asparagus points which have been first boiled and then 
tossed in butter. 

221. Shoulder of Lamb with glazed Onions 

(Epaule d'agneau aux oignons glace's). 

Bone a shoulder of lamb ; season the inside ; fill 
with a stuffing made with 2 oz. of bread - crumbs 



86 LAMli. 

Steeped in milk, then well - pressed dry; season with 
salt, pepper, a leaspoonful of flour, yolk of an egg, 
chopped parsley, and cloves. Roll up the shoulder ; 
sew it; roast it in the oven for an hour; make a good 
gravy. Dress it on a dish, throw a little gravy over, and 
garnish with two dozen small new carrots which have 
been cooked in butter, and the same number of small 
glazed onions. 

222. To glaze Onions 

( Oignons glads). 

Boil button onions in water until they are half cooked ; 
strain ; put them in the stewpan with a piece of butter, 
a pinch of powdered sugar, salt, a cupful of stock ; let 
them finish cooking. The liquid will be reduced and 
the onions coloured. 

223. Lamb's Fry 
(Foie et fressure d'agncai/). 

Take the heart, the lung, and the liver. Cut the lung 
into small squares; the heart in thin slices; the liver in 
the same manner, but put it on one side. Melt 3 oz. 
of fresh butter in a pan ; colour a small chopped onion 
in it ; add the heart and the lung ; stir briskly for seven 
or eight minutes, then add the liver ; season with salt and 
pepper. Continue to cook until the liver is firm and nicely 
coloured ; sprinkle with chopped parsley ; add the juice 
of a lemon. Arrange on a very hot dish. 

Note. — The sweetbread can be dressed in the same 



87 



VEAL. 

224. Fillet of Veal stewed 

(Rouelle de veau a la bourgeoise). 

Take a piece of veal about 3 lb. ; lard it. Put into 
a stewpan 2 oz. of butter, the same quantity of lean 
bacon cut in small squares, and colour them together. 
Add the veal well seasoned; let it simmer at a gentle 
fire for thirty minutes, the stewpan covered, then add 
a cup of white wine and sufficient stock to half cover 
the meat, a bouquet of laurel, parsley, and thyme, one 
tomato skinned, twenty - four button onions, the same 
number of small new carrots ; let all simmer an hour 
and a half. Dish the meat ; take out the bouquet ; 
skim off all grease. Thicken lightly with a little potato- 
flour mixed in cold water. Be careful not to break the 
vegetables. Pour sauce and vegetables round the meat. 
Note. — It should be observed, where thickening is 
added when the ragout is finished, potato - flour and 
not plain flour is used : on no account can arrowroot 
be admitted for the purpose. 

225. Breast of Veal stuffed 

{Poitrine de veau farcie). 

Proceed in the same manner as for shoulder of lamb 
(No. 221) j omit the onions. 



88 VEAL. 

226. Fricandeau of Veal 

(Fricandeau a l'osei/k). 

Take a piece of the fillet, about 3 lb. or more if for a 
large family ; take away all the skin ; lard it. Put at the 
bottom of the stewpan some good fat or dripping, any odd 
pieces of bacon, one carrot, and one onion cut in slices, 
one laurel-leaf. Put the meat in the pan; surround it 
with the dressings ; season ; add a teacupful of water. 
Put it on the fire and leave it until the liquid is re- 
duced and the bottom of the meat begins to take colour 
— it must not be turned ; moisten with a teacupful of 
wine (white) and ^ pint of stock ; let it cook gently for 
an hour — less if a small piece. Take out the meat ; strain 
the gravy ; put back the meat and place it uncovered in 
the oven, and baste it frequently with the gravy to glaze 
it. Have ready a puree of sorrel or spinach (see Vege- 
tables), and add to it the remainder of the gravy. Serve 
the meat, well glazed with the gravy, and the sorrel separ- 
ately. This dish can be prepared with a pure'e of any 
vegetable. 

227. Fricandeau of Veal with Cream 

{Fricandeau a la crime). 

Cook the same as No. 226; keep it hot; add to the 
gravy in the stewpan a glass of good cream ; boil for five 
minutes, and throw over the meat. 

228. To dress Remains of Veal 

(Bla?iquette — emploi des restes). 

Cut the remains of veal in slices ; make a white sauce 
(No. 64) with equal parts of butter and flour (1 oz.), and 
3 gills of white stock. Add the meat, salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg ; let it warm for a short time. At the moment 
of serving thicken with the yolks of two eggs, chopped 
parsley, juice of a lemon. 



VEAL. 89 

229. Veal Patties 

(Petits pates de veaii). 

Take )£ lb. remains of roast veal ; chop it, and prepare a 
rather thick paste with it (see No. 159); let it cool; then 
form it into twelve balls the size of a walnut. Have ready 
1 lb. puff paste (No. 585); roll it to the thickness of % 
inch; cut out with plain paste-cutter or small tumbler 
twenty- four rounds of equal size. Place twelve rounds 
on a baking-tin, and on each round a ball of the meat ; 
moisten the edges with a paste -brush and water; cover 
them with the other twelve rounds, pressing the edges 
to join them well ; colour them with the yolk of egg. 
Bake for twenty minutes. 

230. Fricandelles. 

Chop up fine y^ lb. of the remains of any cooked veal 
— some part of it must be fat ; add the same quantity of 
raw meat, veal, or pork, and mix all together. Add 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, parsley, chopped onions or chives, a 
dessert-spoonful of baked bread-crumbs, and one whole 
egg. Divide the preparation in quantities each to fill a 
table-spoon ; place them on a floured board ; flatten each 
one to the thickness of x / 2 inch and into a round form. 
Pass them through beaten egg and baked bread-crumbs ; 
colour them in a pan in y^ lb. of butter — they must be 
a good colour both sides. Arrange them in an entree- 
dish in the form of a crown. Serve with Italian sauce 
(No. 100). 

231. Veal Cutlets glazed 

{Cotelettes de veau glacees au jus). 

Cut six cutlets; trim them (No. 207); flatten them 
lightly ; season with salt and pepper and pass them through 
flour. Warm in a pan a piece of butter the size of an egg ; 
place in the cutlets — they must not be too crowded ; cook 



90 V i : a L. 

them for about fifteen minutes at a gentle fire; turn tluni 
once. Moisten them when cooked with a glass of stock 
(a very small cupful) and a little caramel. Let the liquid 
reduce to half. Arrange the cutlets upon a plate and 
throw the gravy over them. 

Note. — Veal cutlets are grilled the same as mutton 
cutlets. 

232. Cutlets of Veal Panels 
{Co tele ties de veau). 

Trim and season the cutlets ; flatten them rather thin ; 
clip them into egg beaten up with a teaspoonful of butter 
(dissolved). Arrange the cutlets side by side in a pan 
with y^ lb. of clarified butter (dissolved) ; place them over 
a gentle fire ; cook for ten minutes on one side, then turn 
and give the same time to the other. Arrange them on a 
long dish ; pour over a little of the butter from the pan. 
Serve with them or separately )/?. lb. of macaroni a la 
milanaise. 

233. Veal Cutlets en Papillotes 

( Colelettes de veau en papillotes). 

Chop fine two shalots, some mushrooms, a pinch of 
parsley. Cook for ten minutes in a little butter some 
small veal cutlets, seasoned, well trimmed, and with the 
bones chopped short. Put them on a plate ; add to the 
pan the chopped shallot and parsley; a teaspoonful of flour, 
a cupful and a half of stock or gravy, a glass of white wine ; 
boil up, replace the cutlets, and reduce the sauce. When 
the sauce has become thick take it from the fire ; add a 
little lemon-juice; let it get half cold. Cut six sheets 
of white paper in the form of a heart ; oil or butter them 
on both sides ; put them at the entrance of the oven to 
dry for an instant ; place upon each piece of paper a thin 
slice of cooked ham cut in the shape of the cutlet, upon 
this a spoonful of the thick sauce, then the cutlet with 
a little more sauce ; cover with a second slice of ham. 



VEAL. 91 

Close up the sheet of paper to entirely hide the cutlet ; 
pinch the extra paper all round into small pleats. Arrange 
them on a tin ; put them in the oven — it must not be too 
hot, the cutlets are merely to warm through. Dress them 
on a dish, taking care the paper is not broken. 

234. Scallops of Veal 

{Escalopes). 

Cook in the same manner as No. 226. Serve as an 
entree upon rice (risotto), young peas, or Italian sauce. 

235. Milanese Scallops 

(Escalopes Milanaises). 

Cut the scallops smaller and thinner than in the preced- 
ing recipes; pass them through egg and bread-crumbs. 
Cook in butter for five minutes ; dish them ; throw over 
the butter in which they have been cooked, and quarters 
of lemon ; a sprinkle of cayenne, if not objected to. 
These can also be dressed as an entree with tomato 
sauce (No. 88). 

236. Haricot of Veal 

(Ragotit de veau). 

Take for this dish breast, shoulder, or the cutlets under 
the shoulder. Proceed exactly as for haricot mutton. If 
vegetables are added they must be put in the same time 
as the meat. 

237. Ragout of Veal a la Financiere 

{Ragout Financier). 

Prepare a good brown sauce (No. 65) with gravy about 
1 )A pint ; strain it ; reduce it with half a tumblerful of 
fowl gravy, y^ pint champagne, a little lean cooked ham. 
Strain the sauce a second time, after it has been on the fire, 



92 VEAL. 

to reduce with the wine and additional gravy ; keep it hot. 
Have ready cooked some cockscombs (simply boiled tender), 
some foie gras cut in scallops, four or five lamb sweet- 
breads larded and glazed, truffles cut round and cooked 
quickly, button mushrooms cut the same as the truffles, 
four prawns or small crayfish shelled, and twenty-four small 
quenelles (see No. 265), four of them to be large and 
decorated with fillets of truffles. All these being ready 
and quite hot, arrange the sweetbreads in the middle of 
the dish and group the dressings all round. Put the four 
large quenelles and the four crayfish at the corners of the 
dish. Surround the borders of the dish with croutons of 
bread cut in triangles and fried in butter, or triangles 
of puff paste brushed with yellow of egg and baked in 
the oven. 

238. Ragout of Fowl k la Diplomate 

{Ragout Diplomate). 

With some fowl stock prepare a white sauce (No. 64); 
add to it a cupful of cream and one of wine (sauterne). 
The sauce should be smooth and of a medium consistency. 
Put in a pan some truffles cut in slices, mushrooms, 
cockscombs, quenelles of poultry finished with shrimp 
butter (No. 27), foie gras cut in scallops. Thicken all 
these with the prepared sauce. Prepare in advance twelve 
fillets (raw) cut from the white part of fowls ; arrange them 
in a pan with butter and the fat from the poultry ; cook 
until tender, and glaze them in the oven. Dress the 
ragoitt in a silver mould or simply on a dish, and ar- 
range the fillets in form on the top. Between each fillet 
place the tail of a crayfish. 

239. Calves* Brains 

(Cervelles de veau a I'oseille). 

Well wash the brains; take all skin carefully off; put 
them in a casserole half covered with stock, one onion 



VEAL. 93 

stuck with cloves, a bouquet of laurel, parsley, and thyme, 
salt, peppercorns ; skim ; cook for half an hour. When 
ready to serve drain ; butter them over the top. Serve 
them whole or cut up on sorrel or spinach. 



240. Calves' Brains in Sauce 

(Cervelles de veau en sauce). 

Take two or three sets calves' brains — they must be very 
fresh ; take off the skin and clots of blood ; let them soak 
in cold water for an hour, changing it three times. Put 
them in a saucepan with white stock to cover them and 
boil for thirty minutes. Take equal quantities of butter 
and flour, some stock from the brains ; make a white 
sauce ; let it boil a short time. At the last thicken with 
two yolks of eggs, a piece of fresh butter, the juice of a 
lemon. Grill six small slices of bread ; arrange them at 
the bottom of an entre'e-d\s\\ ; drain the brains ; place 
them on the bread ; pour the sauce over all. 

Note. — Sheep's brains can be cooked according to all 
the recipes given for calves' brains. 



241. Fried Brains 

( Cervelles frites). 

Clean, skin, and soak them ; cut them up raw into small 
squares ; take salt, pepper, nutmeg, ground ginger, grated 
Parmesan cheese ; mix all together with a beaten egg ; roll 
the brains in this. Melt two table-spoonfuls of clarified 
butter in a small pan ; take small spoonfuls of the prepared 
brains ; let them drop into the hot butter in a round form 
without touching one another. Cook them a pretty colour 
on one side ; turn them over on the other. Arrange them 
on a dish surrounded by cut lemons and fried parsley. 



94 VEAL. 

242. Another way 

(Cervelles panies). 

It is more profitable to boil the brains whole ; cut 
them in thick slices ; pass them through egg beaten up 
and seasoned, then in bread-crumbs. Fry in butter in a 
small pan and serve with cut lemons or cold Tartar sauce 
(No. 81). 

243. Blanquette de Veau. 

Take 3 lb. of veal — breast is the best part ; cut it in 
squares (about 2 inches). As this dish is supposed to be 
very white, it is generally soaked half an hour in tepid water ; 
personally I prefer to keep the good in the meat, and for 
that purpose sacrifice a little delicacy of tint. Put the 
pieces of veal into a saucepan ; cover with cold water ; add 
a large pinch of salt ; let it boil ; skim. Add one onion 
stuck with the cloves, one carrot cut in halves, a cupful of 
white wine, a bouquet of laurel, thyme, parsley ; cook 
half an hour. Strain the meat and keep the stock. With 
2 oz. of butter, the same of flour, make a white sauce ; 
moisten it with the veal stock ; stir over the fire. The 
sauce must be perfectly smooth and not thick. Add the 
meat without the vegetables or herbs ; continue to cook 
gently until the meat is tender. The sauce should be 
reduced by one-half. Thicken at the last moment with 
three yolks of eggs, 1 oz. fresh butter, the juice of a lemon 
(see No. 74). Arrange the meat on a dish with the 
sauce ; surround it with six large crofitons of bread cut in 
the form of triangles and fried in butter. 

A T ote. — Mushrooms, truffles, green peas, asparagus tops, 
may be added if desired. 

244. Stewed Calf's Head 

{Tele de veau a diver ses sauces). 

Prepare the head ; carefully take away all the skin ; 
steep it for several hours in cold water. Take out the 



VEAL. 95 

tongue and the brains ; put them in cold water. Boil the 
head and tongue for five minutes ; pour cold water over 
them. Cut up the head in several pieces ; put it back in 
the stewpan, just covered with water (cold), a good pinch 
of salt, some grains of pepper ; an onion stuck with cloves, 
one carrot, a bouquet of parsley, thyme, laurel, the juice of 
a lemon ; let it simmer until the flesh is perfectly tender — 
about three hours. In the interval prepare the brains ; 
boil them for fifteen minutes in salted water with a few 
drops of vinegar. Arrange the head on a large dish, the 
tongue split lengthwise without dividing the two parts ; 
place it on the middle of the head, then the brains whole 
and well drained. Garnish with fresh parsley. Thus 
prepared, the head can be served with a sauce made of 
oil and vinegar or madeira sauce, sauce with button onions, 
sauce piqua?ite i olive sauce,' tomato sauce, &c. 

245. Calf's Head fried 
(Tete de veau frite). 

Cut up the remains of a head into equal pieces ; steep 
them for half an hour in a plate with salt, pepper, oil, 
vinegar, and chopped parsley. A few minutes before 
serving, drain the head ; dip each piece into frying batter, 
and plunge them into deep frying fat until they are crisp. 
Arrange the pieces in a pyramid upon a dish covered 
with a napkin ; surround with fried parsley. 

Note. — Calves' head must always be eaten hot. 

246. Calf's Feet with Black Butter 

(Pieds de veau au beurre noir). 

Split three feet in halves ; take out the big bone ; scald 
them and cook them the same as calves' heads — they must 
be quite tender. Strain ; take out as many as possible of 
the small bones, but without spoiling the shape of the feet. 
Arrange them on a plate ; sprinkle them with capers. 



g6 VEAL. 

Pour over them ]^ lb. of black butter boiling hot (see 
No. 138). The feet will take at least three hours to boil. 

247. Calf's Tongue 

{Langue de veau). 

The tongues can be either boiled or braised. They need 
two hours' cooking. They can be prepared in the same 
manner as ox tongues. 

248. Calves' Ears with Mushrooms 

{Orei lions de veau gar n is). 

Boil six ears for two and a half hours, in the same 
manner as calf's head. Prepare a pint of good sauce 
made with gravy, mixed with four table spoonfuls of puree 
of tomatoes, and well seasoned. Add to the sauce twelve 
button mushrooms, the same number of olives stoned and 
stewed for twenty minutes in a little sherry, a calf's tongue 
cooked and cut in squares, a veal sweetbread cooked and 
scalloped. Arrange the ears on a dish, after having made 
an incision in them and turned back the skin ; put a small 
piece of brain (that has been boiled for fifteen minutes 
in salted water and a few drops of vinegar) into each ear, 
pour some sauce over, sprinkle with some capers. A few 
quenelles can be added with advantage. 

249. Grenadines of Veal 

{Grenadins de veau). 

Cut some slices of veal from the fillet, about j4 of 
an inch in thickness. Trim them into an oval form, lard 
them. Butter a shallow stewpan thickly, put into it an 
onion, a small carrot, laurel leaf, a sprig of thyme, same of 
parsley, and the trimmings of the veal. Arrange the 
cutlets on the top of this, the larded side uppermost, 
season, moisten with a cupful of stock. Cover the pan, 
place on a brisk fire, and when the liquid is reduced 



VEAL. 97 

and the bottom of the pan commences to take colour, 
add gravy or stock to the level of the cutlets. Let all 
cook for twenty minutes or half an hour. Take out the 
meat, strain the gravy ; return meat and gravy to the pan, 
put it uncovered into a hot oven, baste well with their 
sauce to glaze the cutlets. If the gravy is too thin, thicken 
with a little potato-flour. Arrange the cutlets in a dish 
in the form of a crown, and place in the middle a dressing 
of any kind of vegetable. 

250. Calf's Liver 

{Foie de veau saute"). 

Take i lb. of liver (sufficient for six persons) ; take off, if 
possible, the thin skin that covers it. Cut the liver in 
strips a little more than an inch thick, then cut these again 
in small pieces. Melt 2 oz. of butter in a pan ; colour in 
it for an instant a finely chopped onion ; add the liver, a 
pinch of salt and pepper. Stir for about three minutes ; 
then add 1 oz. of flour, stir all briskly, moisten with a 
tumbler of stock, and add a few drops of caramel. Stir 
constantly until it boils. Arrange the liver on a dish ; 
reduce the sauce over a brisk fire if it is too thin, finish 
with chopped parsley and the juice of a lemon. Pour over 
the liver. 

251. Calf's Liver and Mashed Potatoes 

{Foie de veau a la menagere). 

Lard a small liver after having taken off the fine skin. 
Put it into a stewpan with % lb. of butter; salt and pepper. 
Cover the pan, and stew at a gentle fire for a quarter of an 
hour. When it is nicely coloured pour in stock and a cup 
of white wine to half cover the liver ; add a bouquet of 
herbs, two dozen button onions, the same number of carrots 
cut to the size and shape of the onions and half-cooked 
in water. Cover the pan and put it in the oven for one 
hour. A few moments before it is finished uncover the 
G 



98 VEAL. 

pan, thicken the gravy with a small spoonful of potato- 
flour. Baste frequently. Arrange on a dish ; surround 
with the vegetables and sauce ; take away the bouquet 
entirely ; serve at the same time a purie of potatoes made 
with milk. 

252. Quenelles of Liver 

(Quenelles de foie a la moelle). 

Take ^ lb. of liver, chop it finely, and put it in a basin. 
Add % lb. of beef marrow, also chopped ; a handful of 
freshly baked bread-crumbs, a table- spoonful of flour, 
salt, pepper, chopped parsley, two finely-chopped shallots, 
coloured in butter, and two whole eggs. Mix all well. 
Have ready boiling a saucepan of water with salt in it ; 
take the liver in a soup-spoon and with another spoon 
drop it into the saucepan in the shape of a quenelle. The 
pan must be on the corner of the stove away from the 
fire. When all the liver has been dropped in, put them 
again on the fire, cook for ten minutes. Drain the 
quenelles on a strainer, place them one by one on a dish, 
keep them hot. Melt 3 oz. of clarified butter in a small 
frying-pan, with a good pinch of the baked bread-crumbs ; 
let it take a golden colour, shaking it continually ; throw 
over the quenelles, and serve very hot. 

253. Timbale of Liver 

{Pain de foie de veau). 

Ten oz. of liver, 1 y 2 oz. of butter, 1 % oz. of fat bacon cut 
in small squares, and 1 chopped onion. Melt the butter 
and bacon fat together, colour the onion in it, add the 
liver sliced as in No. 250. Season with salt, pepper, 
ginger, nutmeg ; shake briskly, two or three minutes, al- 
lowing the liver to become firm without being too much 
cooked. Let it become half cold, pound it in a mortar, 
adding, a few drops at a time, a cupful of sauce or gravy 
cold and rather thick. When the whole is reduced to 
paste, rub through a tammy or sieve. Put the purie in 



VEAL. 99 

a basin, add to it a liqueur-glass of cognac or of marsala; 
stir with a wooden spoon ; add, one at a time, while 
mixing, four eggs, and see if sufficiently seasoned. Butter 
a plain mould ; fill it with the mixture, and cover with 
greased paper. Place the mould in a pan with enough 
boiling water to cover two-thirds of the mould, and put 
on the lid. Keep it on the corner of the stove or in 
the oven for thirty-five minutes ; the water only simmering. 
When the liver is firm, take it out of the pan, let it remain 
five minutes, pass the knife between the liver and the side 
of the mould, turn it out on to a round dish. Serve with 
piquante or madeira sauce. 

254. Stewed Kidneys 
{Rognons sautis). 

Take away the skin from three veal kidneys ; split them 
lengthwise in halves ; take out the white nerve from the 
centre, and cut each half into small slices. Melt 3 oz. of 
butter in a pan, colour in it a small chopped onion, add 
the sliced kidneys, salt, pepper. Stir with a spoon briskly 
over a good fire until all the pieces are equally coloured ; 
sprinkle with a table-spoonful of flour ; mix and stir well. 
Add a cupful of white wine and one of good gravy • stir 
until boiling. Cook two minutes longer ; taste if well 
seasoned ; at the last add the juice of half a lemon and 
chopped parsley. 

Note. — Marsala may be used instead of white wine. 
Mushrooms and truffles sliced thinly and stewed with the 
kidneys are an improvement. 

255. Sweetbreads (to prepare) 

(fit's de veau). 

Steep them for an hour in cold water ; then put them 
to boil for five minutes (in cold water) ; take them out ; 
pour cold water over them. The sweetbreads are then 
ready to be dressed in various ways. 



IOO VEAL. 

256. Sweetbreads braised 

(J? is de veau rot is et braise's). 

Prepaic the sweetbreads as in No. 255 ; they may then 
be larded or left as they are. Put 2 oz. of butter in a 
saucepan; when it is melted add the sweetbread; salt and 
pepper. Cover the pan, let them cook on a gentle fire 
for twenty minutes, turning them occasionally in order 
that they may take colour on both sides, then add a 
little good stock or gravy to detach all the gravy from the 
bottom of the pan. Arrange the sweetbreads on a dish, and 
pour the sauce over. When they are larded, place them, the 
larded side uppermost, in a pan with 2 oz. of butter, one 
carrot, and an onion cut in slices, thyme, laurel, parsley, 
salt, and a cupful of stock ; cover the pan, or place a 
buttered paper over all. Leave over a good fire until the 
moisture is reduced and the sweetbreads coloured but not 
burnt ; moisten with a cupful of white wine, the same of 
stock ; cook for twenty minutes more. Place the sweet- 
breads on a dish, strain the gravy, take off the grease, 
thicken with a pinch of potato-flour mixed in cold water. 
Put the sweetbreads and sauce in the oven ; baste to glaze 
them. Sweetbreads thus prepared can be served as entries 
with spinach, sorrel, green peas, sliced truffles, mushrooms, 
tomato sauce, sauce a la financier e, sauce a la Toulouse. 

257. Sweetbreads k la Saint Cloud 

(Ris de veau a la Saint Cloud). 

Lard the sweetbreads with sliced pistachio nuts, truffles, 
and ham, alternating the colours ; braise and glaze them 
in their gravy (No. 256). Serve with Italian sauce (No. 
1 01). 

258. Sweetbreads in White Sauce 

{Ris de veau en sauce blanche). 

Put the sweetbreads (blanched, No. 255) in a stewpan, 
just covered with stock and a little while wine, an onion 



VEAL. lOI 

stuck with two cloves, a small bouquet of thyme, laurel, 
parsley ; salt, pepper. Cook on a gentle fire for thirty- 
minutes. Take butter and flour (i% oz. of each), the 
stock of the sweetbreads, make a white sauce, thicken it 
with two yolks of eggs and a little cream. • 

259. Veal Olives glazed 

(Pettis fricandeaux a la genevoise). 

Cut six good slices, y 2 inch thick, from a fillet of veal, 
flatten them lightly ; cut six thin slices of lean bacon, 
about i inch broad. Spread on the veal chopped onion 
and fine herbs, a slice of the bacon above, roll, and tie 
each piece at both ends to keep them in shape. Melt in 
a pan i^ oz. of butter, place the olives in it, salt and 
pepper them lightly, cover the pan ; let them cook at 
a gentle fire for twenty minutes, turning them once. Add 
a cup -of white wine and the same quantity of gravy or 
stock ; cook for another twenty minutes to glaze the olives 
well in their gravy. Take off the strings, and serve them 
with their sauce, from which the grease has been removed. 

260. Veal Olives 

{Paupiettes de veau). 

Cut six slices from the fillet — they must be free from 
skin and nerves and about ^ inch thick ; beat them as 
flat as possible without destroying the shape ; season them. 
Spread on each a layer of the following preparation : equal 
quantities of raw meat and bacon chopped very fine, with 
parsley, chives, salt, pepper, one egg ; roll all up and tie at 
both ends ; cook in the same way as for veal olives glazed 
(No. 259). 

261. Veal Pie de Godiveau 

(Tourte de godiveau). 

Take rich short crust or puff paste (see Nos. 580, 585) ; 
put a layer of the paste on a tin, which has a border about 



102 VEAL. 

an inch high ; place on the paste a thick layer of the 
godiveau (see No. 262); cover with another layer of the 
paste ; press the two layers together by turning the edge 
of the first over the second. Brush the top with yolk of 
egg ; mark and press the top with a round cutter smaller 
than the pati itself; ornament it with some fancy cuttings 
from the paste ; bake for thirty to forty minutes. With 
the point of the knife cut and lift off the top which has 
been marked ; cut with the point of the knife the contents 
of the pate" and pour in a good sauce made with gravy and 
button mushrooms. Cover and serve very hot. 

262. Paste for Pie 

{Godiveau). 

Proportions : ]/ 2 lb. of fillet of veal ; y 2 lb. of kidney-, 
beef-, or veal-suet ; three whole eggs, half a cup of water, 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley 
and chives. Take all skin and nerves from the meat ; 
chop and pound it in a mortar with an egg ; add the suet 
finely chopped; continue to pound, adding from time to 
time a spoonful of cold water, the two eggs, and the 
seasoning. When all is a complete paste, add the parsley 
and chives. Of course it is better to put the farce 
through a hair-sieve, but it can be used without. 

263. Small Veal Patties 

(Petits path an jus). 

Small tartlets can be made in the same manner as for 
No. 261. 

264. Quenelle Meat of Veal 

{Pate ou farce a quenelles de veau). 

Ten oz. of flesh of any good part of veal, which is with- 
out skin and gristle, % lb. of butter, % lb. of panada (see 
No. i 23), four yolks or two whole eggs, salt, pepper, nutmeg. 
Chop the meat fine; pound it with the yolk of an egg; 



VEAL. IO3 

pass through a sieve. Put the panada cold in the mortar ; 
add meat and butter by degrees, pounding all the time. 
When all is perfectly mixed, add seasoning and eggs one 
at a time, never ceasing to pound. Before taking it from 
the mortar, it is advisable to taste the seasoning. If the 
paste is not sufficiently firm, add a little flour or the 
yolk of an egg ; mix well, and take the paste from the 
mortar. 

265. Entree of Quenelles 

(Quenelles pour entries). 

Take quenelles paste — it must be rather firm (see No. 264); 
mix it for five or six minutes with two table-spoonfuls of 
cream. Butter lightly a stewpan — it must be rather large 
and deep. Take a table-spoonful of this paste ; smooth 
the top with the blade of a knife moistened ; with another 
spoon, which has been dipped in boiling water, turn the 
quenelle gently into the stewpan ; it should then be the 
shape of a small egg ; continue placing them side by 
side. Have ready boiling water lightly salted ; pour it 
gently into the pan until the quenelles are covered. 
Place them on the fire ; directly they boil up, remove the 
pan to the side of the stove, where the water must 
scarcely simmer ; cover ; five minutes will finish them. 
Take them out on a drainer, place them one by one on 
a dish in the form of a crown, and putting between each 
a crouton of bread cut in shape and fried in butter. Pour 
into the middle of the ragout button mushrooms or truffles 
in madeira sauce (see No. 66). 

266. Veal Balls 

(Boulettes simplifiies pour remplacer les quenelles). 

Take away all skin and gristle from y 2 lb. of veal. 
Chop this meat fine with ^ lb. of beef-marrow — failing 
the latter, kidney-, beef-, or veal-suet ; add some bread 
steeped in warm milk and squeezed (a piece about the size 
of two eggs), salt, pepper, nutmeg, chopped parsley, one 



104 VEAL. 

whole egg, two yolks; mix all well in a basin. With this 
farce make small balls rolled in flour, and cook in water 
the same as quenelles (see No. 264). 

267. Quenelles for Vol au- Vent. 

Take some quenelles paste (No. 264); place it on a 
floured board ; roll it into the form and thickness of a 
cork ; divide this into equal pieces the size of a large nut ; 
roll into a ball or the form of a cork. Cook in the same 
manner as for No. 265. When cooked, they can remain 
for some little time ; simply leave them in a basin covered 
with the water in which they were boiled. 

268. Vol-au-Vent. 

Take puff paste about two-ihirds of an inch thick (No. 
585). Place on the paste a plate the size of the vol-au- 
vent required; cut round with the point of a knife. Place 
this round upon a baking-tin which has been slightly mois- 
tened ; brush the paste over with yolk of egg ; mark it with 
a saucer turned upside down, and round this mark bury the 
point of the knife to about the depth of l /& inch — this is to 
form the cover ; place in the oven, which must not be too 
hot, but the heat to be gradually increased during thirty to 
thirty-five minutes. When taken from the oven gently lift 
the cover from the vol-au-vent, and take out all the soft 
paste from the inside. It is then ready for the dressing. 

269. Garniture for Vol-au-Vent. 

A sweetbread cooked and cut in slices ; a calf's tongue 
boiled or braised, split, and cut in slices ; calf's or 
sheep's brains cooked and cut in pieces ; 1 lb. of poached 
quenelles (Nos. 264, 265), and some button mushrooms cut 
in halves. Season highly, and mix all together with a 
quart of good sauce, white or brown, according to taste. 
Stoned olives, bottoms of artichokes (globe) cooked and 
cut, truffles, prawns or crayfish, may be added to the above. 



VEAL. I05 



270. Vol-au-Vent a. la Mariniere. 

Fill the vol-au-vent with fish cooked and cut in pieces, 
mussels, oysters, fish quenelles, prawns, shrimps, or crayfish 
shelled, mushrooms, all mixed with a good white sauce. 
All dressings must be cooked previously. 

271. Veal Patties 
(Bouchies). 

The directions for making small veal patties to be fol- 
lowed exactly from those for vol-au-vent (see No. 268); 
for the dressing to be placed in them see No. 272 ; of 
course small tartlet paste-cutters to be used for cutting 
them. 

272. Dressing for Veal Patties 

(Garniture de botuhees). 

For twelve patties take yi lb. of cooked veal (any 
remains will serve) ; cut them in small slices the size of 
a green pea, a slice of ham cut in the same manner; mix 
all with half their quantity of white or brown sauce ; add 
chopped parsley and chives to the sauce. 

273. Superior Chicken Patties 
{Bouchies a la reine). 

Take the skin and bones from half a cooked fowl ; cut 
it in small dice ; cut in the same manner a truffle, two or 
three button mushrooms, a slice of pickled tongue ; mix 
all with a white or brown sauce (madeira) ; make all hot ; 
have the patties ready on a dish, fill them with the dressing. 

Note. — Patties made with oysters, prawns, shrimps or 
crayfish, lobsters, and mixed with a cream sauce, are 
delicious. Remains of boiled fish can be utilised in the 
above manner. 



I06 VEAL. 



274. Cold Veal Pie, with Jelly 

(Pati froid de veau a la gelee). 

Prepare a raw mixture, well chopped or put through a 
mincing-machine, l / 2 lb. of veal and pork (4 oz. of each), 
and y? lb. of bacon fat. Season with salt, pepper, ginger, 
nutmeg ; a liqueur-glass of brandy ; pound for some minutes 
in the mortar. Cut ^ lb. of fillet of pork and 1 lb. of 
veal in strips longer than wide ; season and put them in a 
basin with a glass of wine ; let them soak for half an hour. 
Cut some thin slices of cooked ham. Butter a mould. 
Make a paste with 6 oz. of butter, 10 oz. flour, two yolks of 
eggs, a pinch of salt, and a teacupful of tepid water ; make 
it rather stiff. Divide the paste in two parts, two-thirds to 
be for the bottom of the mould, the other for the cover. 
Cover the bottom and sides of the mould with the paste, 
pressing well against the sides, giving everywhere an equal 
thickness. On the bottom of the paste spread a layer of 
the chopped mixture, then a layer of the steeped fillets 
mixed with the slices of ham, then the remains of the 
chopped meat arranged a little in the shape of a dome ; 
cover all with some thin slices of bacon fat. Moisten the 
paste round the edge of the mould ; cover with the smaller 
piece of paste ; fasten it well with the moistened edges of 
the under paste, pinching up into shape any paste coming 
above the mould ; upon the top make a little round hole ; 
ornament the pate with leaves cut from the remains of the 
pastry, and place in the opening at the top a card rolled 
up ; brush the whole over with beaten yolk of egg. Put 
the pie in a good oven ; when the top is coloured, cover 
it with white paper. Let it cook two hours ; an hour after 
it has been taken from the oven, remove the card from the 
top and pour in aspic jelly. When the pie is nearly cold, 
take it from the mould. It is advisable to make it the day 
before it is to be eaten. If it is to be served the same day, 
wrap it in a cloth and place it on the ice. 



VEAL. 107 

275. Veal Pie, en Cocotte 

{Pate de veau en terrine). 

Take a small piece of the best part of the veal, trim it 
free from all gristle and skin, lard it inside with fillets of 
raw ham, bacon fat, and truffles. With the trimmings of 
the veal, some lean pork, and an equal quantity of bacon 
fat (raw), make a chopped or minced mixture. Pound the 
mixture with the trimmings of the truffles in a mortar, 
season with salt, pepper, ginger, and nutmeg ; add two 
table-spoonfuls of brandy or marsala. Take an earthenware 
mould that will stand the fire, line it with thin layers of 
bacon fat, cover the bottom with a layer of the pounded 
meat, and lay the larded fillet on this, surround and cover 
it with the chopped meat, bringing it rather higher towards 
the middle. Place the mould in a dish which has a little 
water in it, put on the cover, put it in a moderate oven, and 
cook for two or three hours according to size. Take it out ; 
then thirty minutes after, place a light weight upon the 
middle of the mould, and let it cool under pressure. This 
pie can be served up in the mould, or taken out, and sur- 
rounded with aspic jelly. 

276. Timbale of Macaroni 

{Timbale a la Milanaise). 

Make a thin short crust (see No. 579), cut in small 
strips, roll them on the floured board in cords about the 
size of macaroni ; with these line completely a well-buttered 
mould. Fill it with macaroni a la milanaise. The mixture 
can be made more or less rich by adding truffles, mush- 
rooms, pieces of ham, foie gras, cockscombs, sweetbreads, 
braised and cut in slices ; close the timbale with a layer 
of paste. Cook the timbale in a good oven until the 
paste is properly baked. Turn it over on to a dish, make 
a small opening on the top, and pour in a good madeira 
sauce. 



io8 



POULTRY AND GAME 
{VOLAILLE ET G I BIER). 



277. Roast Fowl 

I Poulet roti au four). 

Place the fowl in the baking - pan, with 1 1 / 2 oz. 
of butter (melted) and a pinch of salt. Cook, basting 
frequently ; if the butter shows a tendency to become 
black, which will happen if the oven is too hot, add a few 
drops of water, and cover the fowl with buttered paper. 
A chicken will take twenty to twenty-five minutes. A 
medium - sized fowl forty to fifty minutes. A large fat 
fowl fully one hour. Let it be a beautiful golden colour ; 
take away the fat ; detach the gravy from the bottom of 
the pan ; add half a cup of water ; boil up and pour into a 
sauce-boat. Place the fowl on a dish, and place all round 
it some water-cress seasoned with salt and lemon juice. 

Note. — The finest way of roasting poultry is unquestion- 
ably in front of the fire ; but as that is seldom practised 
now, by paying attention to the above simple rules for 
roasting in the oven, I venture to affirm that a great im- 
provement may be established in many households in which 
poultry is too often sent to table dry and tasteless. On the 
Continent poultry (roast) is served with a well-made salad, 
the hot vegetables being sent up as a separate course. 
When the oven is needed for other purposes, poultry can be 
roasted excellently in a stewpan. 



POULTRY AND GAME 109 

278. Poultry Roasted in a Stewpan 

(Poulet a la casserole). 

Cut the legs from the fowl to the thigh, put it into a 
stewpan with 3 oz. of butter, salt, and half a cupful of 
water. Cover and cook at a brisk fire ; when the moisture 
is reduced, continue to cook more slowly ; and continue to 
turn the fowl in order to colour it equally ; at this point 
moisten with a cupful of water, and let it finish. Dish the 
fowl, and make the gravy in the same manner as for roast 
(No. 277). 

279. Fowl Stewed in twenty minutes 

{Poulet saute" a la minute). 

Melt 1 y^ oz. of butter in a stew- or frying-pan, add the 
fowl cut up in five pieces, colour them over a good fire, 
season with salt and pepper; at this point add a table- 
spoonful of flour, shake and mix well, moisten with a pint 
of gravy or stock, a glass of white wine if the flavour is 
liked ; cook until liquid is reduced to one -third ; add 
chopped parsley, chives, and the juice of a lemon. Arrange 
in an entree-dish ; this should take no more than forty 
minutes in all. 

280. Fowl Marengo 

( Volatile a la Marengo). 

Warm two table-spoonfuls finest olive-oil and 1 oz. of 
butter in a stewpan ; place in the fowl cut in pieces, season 
with salt and pepper, let them take colour on both sides ; 
sprinkle over them a table-spoonful of flour. Moisten with 
1 r /2 pint of gravy or stock, a glass (small) of madeira, two 
table -spoonfuls of purie of tomatoes; make the sauce 
rather thin. Add a bouquet of parsley, thyme, marjoram, 
an onion pierced with two cloves, button mushrooms pre- 
pared (see sauces). Cover the pan, and cook gently for 
three-quarters of an hour. Arrange the fowl on a dish ; 
take all grease from the sauce, reduce it to the desired 



I IO POULTRY AND GAME. 

consistency, having first removed the bouquet of herbs and 
onion ; taste the seasoning, and finish with a pinch of 
cayenne and juice of a lemon. Pour the sauce over the 
fowl ; surround it with six fried crofitons of bread, and 
between each crouton a fried egg or the quarter of a hard 
boiled egg. When not objected to, a suspicion of garlic in 
this dish is an improvement. 

281. Fowl stewed in Red Pepper 
{Poulet sauti au paprika). 

Cut up the fowl ; colour it in butter ; powder it with 
a teaspoonful of red pepper ; then cook it in the same 
manner as for poulet sauti (see No. 279). 

Note. — The red pepper, or paprika, must not be con- 
founded with Cayenne. It is a totally different preparation, 
and doubtless will only be procurable at the best Italian 
warehouses. 

282. Curried Fowl 

{Cary de poulet). 

Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in a stew-pan, 
and colour in it an onion sliced or chopped. Add the fowl 
cut in pieces, a teaspoonful of curry powder, and a pinch 
of salt. Colour the fowl gently at a moderate fire, turning 
the pieces frequently ; then add a pint of stock. Cook for 
forty to forty -five minutes until the liquid is reduced to 
one-third ; add a cupful of good cream, simmer for two 
minutes ; at the moment of serving add the juice of a 
lemon. Serve at the same time a dish of rice, cooked it la 
Persane (see No. 389). 

283. Fowl with Rice 

{Poulet au riz). 

Take a tender fowl, put it in a stewpan surrounded 
by its giblets ; and add water, or better still, stock, to 
the height of the fowl. Put it on a good fire ; and skim 



POULTRY AND GAME. 1 1 I 

when necessary. When it has boiled up add a bouquet of 
parsley, thyme, laurel, an onion pierced with cloves, and 
one carrot ; continue to let it simmer, the stewpan open. 
After one hour and a half the fowl should be tender, some- 
times before. In the interval put 1 2 oz. of rice in a stew- 
pan (it must be carefully picked and washed) ; add half 
water half the stock from the fowl, the proportion about 
three times the quantity of the rice ; add a little salt, cover 
and let it cook very gently ; when the rice has absorbed 
nearly all the liquid, the grains should be cooked, but 
whole ; at this point add a little more stock, then 1 oz. 
of butter ; stir gently with a fork to avoid turning the rice 
into a paste ; twenty to twenty-five minutes should cook it. 
Drain the fowl, take off the string which has kept it in 
shape, put it on a dish, surround it with the rice. Mask 
the fowl with a little white sauce, serve the remainder in a 
sauce-boat. For the sauce make a good white one with 
the stock of the fowl. Thicken with two yolks of eggs, a 
little piece of butter, and the juice of a lemon (see No. 63). 

284. Fricassee of Fowl 

{Fricassee de poulei). 

The colour of the fowl for this dish should be very 
white ; to that end it is put on the fire in cold water, taken 
out before it boils, strained, and cold water poured over 
it ; but the dish will not suffer in taste if the above opera- 
tion is omitted. Warm 2 oz. of butter in a stewpan, add 
fowl cut in neat pieces, salt, pepper ; colour for three 
minutes over a gentle fire, it must not take a deep tint. 
Add a table -spoonful of flour, a pint of hot stock, a 
tumbler of wine ; stir until it boils, to prevent lumps ; add 
a bouquet of herbs, twelve button onions, one of them 
pierced with cloves, and simmer gently for one hour at 
least. The sauce should have reduced one half. Make a 
thickening with two yolks of eggs, juice of a lemon, 1 oz. 
of butter (fresh), and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley 
(see No. 63). 



112 POULTRY AND GAME. 

285. Fricassee of Fowl with Rice 

{Fricassee de poulet en bordure). 

Butter a bordered mould, fill it with rice cooked as for 
fowl with rice (No. 283), it should be rather firm ; press it 
well into the border, as it should take the shape of the 
mould. Keep the mould at the entrance of the oven for 
ten minutes ; it must stand in a dish in which warm water 
has been placed. Loosen the rice in the mould with the 
point of a knife, turn it out on to a round dish, fill the 
centre with the fricasste (No. 284). The rice can be dressed 
without a mould by stacking it round in a kind of hillock, 
leaving a hole in the centre of the dish for the fowl. 

286. Galantine of Fowl 

{Galantine de poulei). 

Bone the fowl. Prepare a stuffing with 6 oz. of fillet 
of pork, 6 oz. of fillet of veal, 8 oz. of very fresh bacon fat, 
pound all for a few minutes (after it has been chopped or 
minced in the machine) ; season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, 
ginger. Rub all through a wire sieve. Put the farce into a 
basin ; add 4 oz. of fillet of veal cut in dice and tossed in 
a pan on the fire in butter, 2^ oz. of fat bacon scalded, 
2 oz. of pickled tongue, 2 oz. of ham, three raw truffles, 
the whole cut in dice ; 1 oz. of chopped pistachio nuts ; 
mix all perfectly with a table spoonful of cognac and two 
of madeira. Lay the boned fowl opened on the board, 
spread over it th\s farce pressed down thickly, sew up the 
fowl at the back with strong thread, keep it well in shape, 
wrap it in a cloth, tie at both ends and well in the middle 
also. Put it in a casserole ; surround by the bones and 
giblets of the fowl, some trimmings of fresh meat, a calf's 
foot scalded and cut in pieces ; cover the fowl with cold 
water, add salt. Let it boil up, skim, add one carrot cut 
up, one onion stuck with three cloves, a tumbler of white 
wine ; let it simmer very gently for an hour and a 



POULTRY AND GAME. 113 

half. Take it out, untie, and tie it up again lightly, put 
it between two dishes with a weight on the top. Let it 
remain until the next day. Continue to boil the stock of 
the galantine for a couple of hours longer ; take off the fat, 
pass it through a fine sieve, leave it until the following day. 
When cold take off every morsel of fat, see it is sufficiently 
thick, clear it. Finish as for meat jelly (see No. 59). An 
hour before serving take the fowl from the cloth, glaze it 
with a little of the jelly melted ; cut it in thin slices, place 
them on a dish in the form of the fowl, place a layer of 
jelly on the dish first, and garnish all round with pieces of 
the jelly grouped regularly. 

287. Fowl Piedmontese fashion 

(Poulet a la Pitmoniaise). 

Bone and open a fowl ; lay it on the board ; salt and 
pepper it. Make with 6 oz. of rice a risotto a la Milanaise 
(No. 50) ; add to it two truffles scalded, 2 oz. of ham cut 
all up into dice, and the chopped liver of a fowl. Let this 
farce get half cold, fill the fowl with it, sew it up and put 
round it thin layer of bacon fat. Put it in a stewpan with 
2 oz. of butter, some bacon trimmings, one onion, and one 
carrot sliced, a bouquet of herbs and a cup of stock ; cover 
the pan. Let it cook until the liquid is reduced and the 
bottom commences to take colour ; add y 2 pint of stock 
and half that quantity of wine ; continue to cook for 
forty minutes, turning it once. Take out the fowl, untie it 
carefully, and keep it warm. Strain the sauce, take off the 
grease, thicken with a little potato-flour, reduce it a trifle, 
and pour over the fowl ; place it in the oven for a few 
minutes to glaze it. 

288. An easier way to cook the above. 

Truss the fowl ; cook it in the same way as in recipe 
No. 287 ; make the sauce rather thick and smooth. With 
6 oz. of rice make a good risotto (No. 50), finish it with 
H 



114 POULTRY AND GAME. 

the fat taken from the gravy of the fowl. Place the rice 
upon a dish, the fowl on it, the sauce poured over all. 

289. Grilled Fowl 

(Poulet grill/). 

Split a tender fowl open at the back, flatten it, and take 
out the bone. Season with salt and pepper, lemon juice ; 
rub it over with oil or dissolved butter, sprinkle it with 
dried bread-crumbs. Grill it over a clear gentle fire for 
thirty minutes. It may also be cooked in the oven. Place 
it on a dish, surround it with water -cress and slices of 
lemon. It may be served with tomato, rimoulade, or 
Tartar sauce. 

290. Fowl k la Stanley 

(Poulet a la Stanley). 

Take a fine fowl, joint it into five pieces. Place these 
for four minutes in boiling water, take off the skin. 
Arrange them in a stewpan with a bouquet of herbs, one 
onion stuck with two cloves ; cover to the level of the fowl 
with thin cream, add salt and pepper ; let it cook gently 
for at least thirty minutes. The cream should then be 
reduced to half the quantity. Add a table- spoonful of 
butter worked soft with a little flour, shake the pan well in 
order that all mixes well and becomes smooth. Taste if 
it is well-seasoned, add a pinch of cayenne and the juice 
ot a lemon. Arrange the fowl on a dish ; strain the sauce 
over it ; place round it truffles previously cooked in a little 
madeira. 

291. Fowl, Russian fashion 

(Poulet Demidoff). 

Cut into very small dice some parsley root, celery, 
carrots, and onions. All these vegetables must be young 
and fresh, put them in a pan with a bouquet ot herbs, a 
clove of garlic (not peeled), a small piece of fresh butter, 



POULTRY AND GAME. 115 

and a wine-glassful of oil. Joint the fowl into five pieces ; 
place it in the pan with the vegetables ; season with salt, a 
pinch of cayenne ; place over a brisk fire for a few minutes, 
cover and place them in the oven. Half an hour after, turn 
them and add two tomatoes peeled (seeds removed) and cut 
in quarters. Leave for another fifteen minutes, then arrange 
in the middle of a dish with a border of rice round, the latter 
to be cooked as for risotto (see No. 50), to which is added 
some little squares of ham and button mushrooms. Add 
two or three spoonfuls of good gravy to that already in the 
stewpan, take off all fat, and pour over the fowl. 

292. Fowl with Tarragon 

{Poufet a I'estragon). 

Truss and cover with bacon fat a fine fowl or capon. 
Put it in a stewpan, with an onion stuck with two cloves, 
one laurel leaf, a bunch of fresh tarragon, a small piece of 
butter, and x / 2 pint of stock. Stew for an hour at least 
over a gentle fire ; strain the gravy, mix it with butter 
worked with flour to make it soft, add some tarragon leaves 
chopped (not fine), the juice of a lemon. Arrange the 
fowl on a dish, cover it with the sauce. 

293. Fowl in Aspic 

(Chaud-froid de poulet). 

Roast a fowl, it must be rather underdone ; take off the 
skin, cut it in eight pieces. Make white thickening with 
1 oz. of butter, the same of flour. Moisten this thickening 
with aspic jelly (dissolved) and cream, equal parts of each, 
and a wine-glassful of madeira ; make all into a thin sauce. 
Reduce it to two -thirds, and thicken with two yolks of 
eggs (see No. 63). Pass it through a fine sieve, and 
allow it to become half cold, stirring all the time in order 
to keep it quite smooth. With a long skewer steep each 
piece of fowl in this sauce, taking care it is covered with it 
on all sides ; place them one by one on a large dish which 



Il6 POULTRY AND GAME. 

has been lightly oiled. Pour the remainder of the sauce in 
the bottom of a round dish which is to go to table. When 
the pieces of fowl are half cold cover them with aspic which 
is half set ; arrange them upon the sauce in the dish for 
table. Ornament the space between each piece of fowl 
with a little chopped jelly, and, if desired, slices of truffles 
and mushrooms ; decorate all round the bottom with 
croutons cut out of the jelly. 

294. Fowl Cutlets in Aspic 

(Cotelcttes de poulet en chaud-froid). 

Take off all the flesh from a roast fowl, cut it into small 
squares ; cut up also some truffles, and mix all with a little 
sauce chaud-froid (see No. 293). Place this preparation 
on a tin, spreading it to the thickness of a little less than 
an inch, and place it on ice. When cold, form it into little 
cutlets all equal size, and cover each cutlet with sauce. 
When the sauce is set round them, spread over them some 
meat jelly coloured pink — of course the latter must not be 
quite cold — let it set round them ; and then trim the 
cutlets by passing the point of a knife all round them. 
Arrange them in the form of a crown ; put a frill round 
each. Garnish the middle of the dish with water -cress 
or fresh parsley. 

295. Fowl with Truffles 

( Volailk a la PMgord). 

Chop very finely the trimmings of % lb. of truffles; colour 
them for a minute in a little bacon fat, and mix them with 
the chopped liver of the fowl. Put this mixture into a fine 
fowl ; truss it ; cover it with slices of bacon fat. Cook in 
a stewpan (No. 278) for at least one hour. Take it out, 
remove the string, and keep it hot. Strain the gravy, and 
take off the grease. Put it back in the pan with a glass of 
madeira, and the truffles cut in slices (thick). Let it cook 
an instant ; add a little good brown gravy — if none at hand, 



POULTRY AND GAME. I17 

substitute a teaspoonful of potato-flour mixed with a little 
water. Ornament the fowl with the truffles and sauce. 

296. Croquettes of Fowl 

{Croquettes de poulet). 

Take away all skin and bone from the remains of cold 
fowl ; two slices of ham or pickled tongue, and two arti- 
choke bottoms (see Vegetables) ; cut all in dice. Have 
ready half their weight of cream sauce (No. 75) ; add to it 
a little good gravy. The sauce should be rather thick ; 
season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; mix the meat, &c, 
with the sauce, warm up, and at the last thicken with the 
yolks of two eggs. Spread this out on a dish and let it 
cool. Take spoonfuls of this mixture, roll them out in the 
shape of a cork on a board sprinkled with baked bread- 
crumbs, and flatten them at one end to give the shape of a 
pear. Pass them through beaten egg, then again through 
the bread crumbs ; plunge five or six at a time into boiling 
fat — and let them take a beautiful golden colour. Serve 
with any good sauce. 

297. Mayonnaise of Fowl 

{Mayonnaise de poulet). 

Cut up a cooked fowl into neat joints, and take off the 
skin. Place the pieces in a dish with salt, pepper, a table- 
spoonful of oil, the same of vinegar, and some chopped 
parsley ; leave them for an hour. Stone some olives, and 
cut two gherkins and a slice of ham into dice. Make a 
highly seasoned mayo?inaise. Slice the heart of a lettuce ; 
arrange it on a dish, the pieces of fowl upon it in the form 
of a pyramid. Cut in four, lengthwise, three hard-boiled 
eggs, then each quarter in halves across, making eight 
pieces ; arrange them round the fowl, the yellow outside ; 
cover the fowl with a part of the sauce, and ornament with 
the dice of gherkins and ham. Between the eggs and the 
fowl place a small border of salad cut up ; upon this, at 



118 POULTRY AND GAME. 

equal distances, the stoned olives. The remainder of the 
sauce to be sent to table in the sauce-boat. 

298. Fowl stuffed with Truffles 
( Volaille truffte). 

Prepare a fowl as for roasting. Carefully cleanse the 
liver from the gall, and pound it with the peel and trim- 
mings of 6 oz. of truffles. Mix this///r/<? with 5 oz. of fat 
bacon. It is advisable (not indispensable) to pass all 
through a sieve. Season with salt and pepper; add the 
truffles cut in quarters and lightly warmed in dissolved 
bacon fat. Put this stuffing in the fowl. Introduce some 
slices of truffles between the skin and flesh of the fowl ; 
close up the opening, sewing it with thread ; turn back the 
skin of the neck on to the back between the wings, truss, 
and tie up. Cook as for roast (see No. 277). 

Pheasant, turkey, partridge, can all be dressed and 
cooked in the same manner. 

299. Pate" of Fowl 

(Twibale de poulets aux twuilles). 

Butter and line a mould with half-puff paste (see No. 587) 
— it must reach over the top of the mould. Cook 6 oz. of 
vermicelli or macaroni ; cut in quite small pieces ; strain 
them ; return them to the pan with butter, pepper, and 
salt, and one cupful of cream sauce (sec No. 75). Cook for 
an instant, and add two table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan 
cheese and 1 ^ oz. of ham cut in small dice. Fill the 
mould with this, and cover all with a round of the paste, 
moistened at the edges ; press the upper and lower pastes 
together ; cut round to make all even. Place on a 
baking-tin and into a good oven for forty minutes. Turn 
out on a round dish ; make at the top a round opening 
about 1 inch ; take off the little piece of paste which forms 
the cover ; take out a few spoonfuls of the macaroni, 
and in their place pour in a little ragout made with the 



POULTRY AND GAME. 119 

breast of fowl, sweetbread, and mushroom, all previously 
cooked, sliced, and warmed in madeira sauce ; put back 
the cover, pour some sauce round the timbale. 



300. Fillets of Fowl 
{Filets de poularde au supreme). 

Take the fillets from three small capons ; take off the 
skin as carefully as possible ; flatten lightly, trim, and form 
them. Butter a saule'-psan, pass the fillets through butter 
and arrange them in it ; sprinkle with salt, and cover 
with a round of paper. Break up finely all the bones of 
the fowls, make a good gravy of them and strain ; let it 
reduce almost to glaze — but do not take colour. Add 
to this three table - spoonfuls of white sauce made with 
stock, a small piece of fresh butter ; pass through a tammy- 
cloth. This sauce should not be thick — see if well seasoned. 
Place the fillets on the fire ; turn them several times in the 
butter to cook them, without giving them colour ; add the 
juice of a lemon. Have ready croutons of bread fried in 
butter ; let them be the same form as the fillets. Arrange 
the fillets on the entree-dish, a crouton between each ; beat 
up the sauce and pour over all. 

Note. — This entree may also be served upon a border 
of quenelle meat made of poultry and mixed with cream 
sauce. 

301. Fowls Thighs stuffed 

(Ballotines de cuisses de poularde). 

Bone six thighs of fowl, leaving half the bone from the 
joint of the leg ; spread them on a cloth, fill them with 
small squares of truffles, pistachio nuts, smoked tongue, 
ham, and a little chopped fresh pork ; season highly ; sew 
the skin together, giving them the form of the thigh (very 
bulky). Put in a stewpan layers of bacon fat, carrot, and 
onion sliced. Lay the stuffed legs on the top. Moisten 
with a little good gravy. Cook for an hour; the liquid 



120 POULTRY AND GAME. 

should then resemble glaze ; add a little Italian sauce (see 
No. 101). Place the legs on an entree-dish, removing the 
thread, and pour the sauce over all. 

302. Souffle of Fowl 

(Souffle" de volatile en petites caisses). 

Take off the skin from several pieces of cooked fowl, 
about 6 oz. ; if not sufficient add a little cooked veal. Mince 
and pound them, adding by degrees a cupful of cream sauce 
rather thick. Pass through a fine sieve ; put the purie in a 
stewpan to heat ; stir well, but do not boil. Remove from 
the fire at this point, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and 
add five yolks of eggs, one at a time. Beat the whites to 
a very stiff froth, mix them gently to the puree. Butter 
twelve small paper cases, fill them two-thirds with the 
mixture, arrange them on a very clean baking-tin, cook in 
a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. These souffle's should 
be sent direct from the oven to table. The pur/e may be 
cooked in a dish, but in that case needs to be left a longer 
time in the oven. 

303. P&te' for Picnics 

{Pate de poulet a Vemporter). 

Prepare a./rieass/e of fowl (No. 284), let it get nearly 
cold. Take a square tin loaf, cut a round piece from the 
top to form a cover ; take all the crumb from the inside ; 
butter the inside with a brush dipped in dissolved butter ; 
put the bread for an instant in the oven to dry it. Pour 
the fricassie into the loaf, let it get quite cold ; close it with 
the cover of bread. 

304. Quenelles of Fowl in Moulds 

{Petites timbales a la Talleyrand). 

Cut some smoked tongue very fine and small — in the same 
manner as vegetables for Julienne soup — truffles, and some 



POULTRY AND GAME. 121 

small fillets of cooked fowl, all cut up in the same way. 
Butter twelve small moulds (darioles), powder them with the 
above mixture, place them a moment on ice, fill them with 
quenelle farce of fowl or veal ; with the finger moistened 
make a hole in the centre, and fill it up with the cut 
tongue, truffles, and fowl, mixed with a very thick madeira 
sauce ; cover the top of the hole with a little of the quenelle 
farce; put a piece of paper on the top of the mould. 
Place the moulds in a stewpan filled with boiling water to 
half the height of the moulds, and cook slowly for twenty 
minutes in this manner. Turn them out of the moulds to 
arrange them on the dish, pour round a brown sauce with 
truffles. 

305. Roast Turkey 

(Dinde rotie). 

Cover the turkey with the fat of bacon cut very thin, or 
wrap it up in buttered paper ; baste constantly with butter 
while roasting ; just before it is cooked take off the paper 
to let it take the proper colour. It can be cooked exactly 
the same as roast fowl — in front of the fire, in the oven, 
or in a stewpan ; the gravy to be made the same as for 
fowl. The time for roasting must naturally be regulated 
according to the size of the bird : a very large one will take 
two and a half to three hours ; a very small one, an hour 
and a quarter. 

Note. — When there is any doubt concerning the age of 
the turkey it is advisable to cook it in a stewpan. 

306. Stuffed Turkey 

(Dinde farcie). 

To stuff a turkey see Volatile truffee (No. 298). They 
can also be stuffed with sausage-meat : two-thirds of the 
meat, one-third of boiled chestnuts and the chopped liver 
of the turkey. When stuffed they take longer time to 
roast. 



122 POULTRV AND GAME. 

307. Hashed Turkey 

(Eminci de dinde). 

Slice the remains of a turkey and warm them in gravy, 
or brown or white sauce highly seasoned. Serve with fried 
crofitons of bread round. 

308. Roast Goose 

(Oie rdtie). 

Stuff the goose either with sace and onions, or with the 
liver, chopped onion, salt and pepper, all tossed previously 
in the stewpan with a little fat of the goose. Truss it ; place 
it in the baking-pan ; sprinkle it with salt, and moisten with 
a little butter or lard ; roast it in the oven for two and 
a half hours. Arrange on a dish ; make the gravy by 
adding a little stock and caramel to the gravy in the drip- 
ping-pan. Keep the surplus fat very carefully — rice cooked 
with it is excellent. 

309. Goose in Jelly 

(Oie en daube froide). 

Place in a stewpan some remains of bacon, two carrots, 
two onions, four cloves, one bouquet of herbs, a knuckle 
of veal cut in pieces, a wine-glass of brandy, one and a half 
tumblers of wine, and stock to half the height of the con- 
tents of the pan ; pepper, salt. Place the goose in and let 
it simmer for two and a half hours, longer if the bird is old. 
When tender place the goose in a deep dish ; take off the 
grease and strain the gravy — if this is too thin reduce it a 
little. Pour it over the goose, and let it cool until the jelly 
begins to set. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 123 

310. Goose stuffed with Apples 

(Oie aux pommes). 

Fill the goose with apples (rennets) cut in quarters. Tie 
it up ; roast it in the oven or stewpan for two and a half 
hours. Dish it up, and prepare the gravy as for poultry 
(No. 277). Take off the fat and serve it in a sauce-boat. 

311. Stewed Giblets 

(Ragout d'abatis a la chipolatd). 

Wash the giblets in boiling water, dry them in a cloth ; 
cut the neck in three pieces, the gizzard in three, the 
heart to be kept whole. Colour 1^ oz. bacon cut in 
dice in 1 oz. of butter, add the giblets, season with salt 
and pepper ; let them take a light colour. At this point 
mix in 1^ oz. of flour ; moisten with a quart of stock, 
half a tumbler of white wine, stir until it boils ; add a 
bouquet of herbs, twenty-four chestnuts (see No. 160), twelve 
button onions, one carrot, and one turnip cut in pieces and 
trimmed. Let all simmer gently for three hours; twenty 
minutes before the giblets are cooked add some small 
grilled sausages cut up small. Let the ragout stand in 
order to be able to take off the fat ; take out the bouquet ; 
see if well seasoned, and dish carefully. 

312. Foie Gras in Aspic Jelly 

(Aspic de foie gras). 

Prepare some meat jelly (see No. 59) and finish it with 
half a tumblerful of marsala. Take a pot of foie gras, size 
according to the number of persons for whom it is in- 
tended. Take the fat off the top ; turn it out of the pot ; 
cut it in two or three equal portions, then with the blade of 
a knife, steeped in boiling or warm water, divide these 
portions into thin slices about ^ inch thick. Pour some 
spoonfuls of jelly (it must be barely tepid) into the bottom 



124 POULTRY AND GAME. 

of a mould, stand it in ice. As soon as the jelly is firm, 
arrange upon it a crown of slices of foie gras resting lightly 
on one another. Cover this crown with jelly to the thick- 
ness of x /i inch, then another crown of foie gras, then 
jelly ; continue until the mould is full. When the jelly is 
firm steep the mould quickly in boiling water ; water must 
not come up to the top ; take it out, dry it and turn it out 
on a dish ; surround the base of the aspic with jelly cut 
out in shapes. If a very rich aspic is desired, place be- 
tween each slice of foie gras slices of cooked truffles, mush- 
rooms, cockscombs, shelled prawns. 

Note. — Aspic of fowl is prepared in the same manner, 
and garnished with truffles, pickled tongue, ham, hard 
eggs, &c. 

313. Stuffed Pigeons 

{Pigeons farcis). 

Take three fine pigeons, chop the livers and hearts with 
equal quantities of bacon fat, and % lb. bread soaked and 
well squeezed, salt, pepper, nutmeg, chopped shalot, and 
onions ; add the yolk of an egg. Stuff the pigeons, sew 
them up, tie them, and wrap them in thin slices of bacon 
fat. Place them in a baking-pan with \ l / 2 oz. of butter 
dissolved, a little salt ; put them in a good oven for 
twenty-five minutes ; untie them, and keep them warm. 
Have ready six croutons bread cut square, colour them in 
the butter in the baking-pan, place them at the bottom 
of the dish ; cut the pigeons in two, place each half on a 
crouton of bread. Scrape the gravy from the bottom of 
the baking-pan with a little stock, pour over the pigeons, 
and serve. 

314. Pits' of Pigeon 

{Terrine de Pigeons). 

Clean and finely peel six truffles, cut them in pieces; 
chop some pistachio nuts ; cut 3 oz. of ham into dice. 
Bone two fine pigeons. Colour lightly in melted bacon 



POULTRY AND GAME. 125 

fat two chopped shalots ; add to them the livers of the 
pigeons, three livers of fowls or i}4 oz. of calf's liver, the 
peelings of the truffles; shake this briskly over the fire to 
render the livers firm, but they must not be entirely 
cooked. Chop fine 3 oz. of bacon, the same quantity of 
lean fillet of pork ; pound this with the livers ; season 
with salt, pepper, nutmeg, ginger ; pass all through a sieve ; 
then add the truffles, pistachios, and ham. Spread the 
pigeons on the table, season them lightly, fill them with 
the farce in a manner to give them their original form. 
Butter the bottom of an earthenware shape that will stand 
the fire, place in the pigeons with half a tumblerful of 
madeira wine, cover them with a thin layer of bacon fat, 
add a laurel leaf; cover with the lid, put a little paste 
made of flour and water between the shape and the lid 
where they join. Place it in a pan of boiling water to 
reach half way up the shape, put it in a hot oven, it should 
keep a gentle simmering all the time ; leave it in one hour. 
An instant before serving uncover the shape, take off the 
covering of bacon, pour the gravy into a small stewpan ; 
take off the fat, thicken with a table-spoonful of madeira 
sauce, let it reduce for an instant and throw over the 
pigeons. Serve in the shape, which has been well cleaned 
with a cloth. 

Note. — This dish can be served cold : in that case, 
directly the pigeons are cold place a light weight on them, 
and leave them until the next day in their gravy — do not 
remove the fat. Serve in the same manner as the above. 

Partridges can be dressed in the same way. 

315. Grilled Pigeons 

{Pigeons a la crapaudi?ie s ). 

Split the pigeons in two at the back, but they must not 
be separated ; take out some of the bones from the inside. 
Flatten the pigeons lightly ; season them with salt and 
pepper ; pass them through beaten egg with a little butter 
dissolved in it, roll them in bread-crumbs, and arrange 



126 POULTRY AND GAME. 

them in a pan. Grill them in the oven for twenty min- 
utes, basting constantly with butter. Serve with Tartar or 
Italian sauce. 



316. Pigeons with Green Peas 
{Pigeons aux petits pois). 

Truss and tie up the pigeons ; colour them lightly at a 
gentle fire for about twenty minutes in a covered stewpan, 
with i oz. of butter and ^ lb. of bacon cut in dice, six 
button onions (peeled). At this point add a quart of 
stock, a bouquet of herbs in which is a little fresh mint, 
and a pint of young fresh peas. Let all cook very gently 
for twenty-five minutes more, watching carefully that noth- 
ing sticks to the saucepan. Take out the pigeons ; untie 
them ; take out the bouquet. Mix i oz. of butter with a 
teaspoonful of potato-flour ; add it to the peas, shaking all 
briskly ; let it reduce if necessary ; pour over the pigeons. 

Note. — Pigeons can be cooked simply in good gravy 
thickened, and served with peas, French beans, or small 
new carrots cooked separately (see Vegetables). 

317. Pigeons stewed with Olives 

{Tim bale de pigeons aux Olives). 

Cut in pieces three pigeons ; colour them over the 
fire with ]/^ lb. of bacon cut in squares and a little 
butter; sprinkle with a teaspoonful of flour, and moisten 
with gravy or broth, a wine-glassful of white wine and 
seasoning ; add some button mushrooms ; let all cook at 
a slow fire for half an hour — the gravy must be quite 
smooth and reduced. Take out the stones from five or 
six dozen olives — they must keep their shape when stoned ; 
throw them as they are stoned into cold water ; drain 
them. Then fill them with raw quenelle paste (No. 264); 
poach them in boiling water and drain them. Arrange 
them side by side at the bottom and round the side of a 
buttered timbale-mould (a mould with a funnel in the 



POULTRY AND GAME. \2J 

centre); make them firm with a thin layer of quenelle meat. 
Pour the ragout of pigeon into the empty centre of the 
mould ; stop up the opening with a layer of farce and a 
round of buttered paper. Poach the mould in boiling 
water for half an hour. Turn out the timbale on to a dish 
and pour around it a thin brown sauce. 

Note. — To prepare the above a proper timbale-mould is 
necessary, also a small cornet for filling the olives : both 
are indispensable for many other dishes. 

318. Roast Duckling 

(Canelon roti). 

Place the prepared duckling on a baking-dish ; sprinkle 
with salt ; pour over it some butter melted to oil ; put it in 
the oven for about thirty minutes. Take away the string 
of the trussing ; arrange it on a dish ; remove part of the 
fat from the baking-dish ; add a little broth or water, scrap- 
ing well the gravy that has attached itself to the pan ; boil it 
up, and add a little caramel to colour it (if liked). Strain 
the gravy into a sauce-boat and serve with the duckling. 

319. Duck with Olives 
( Canard aux olives). 

Place a duck in a deep stewpan with a little good fat 
and some bacon trimmings, one onion, one carrot — both 
sliced — a bouquet of parsley, celery, thyme, salt and pepper. 
Let all take colour in the pan well covered. At this point 
add a giass of white wine and a pint of good gravy ; con- 
tinue to cook gently until the duck is quite tender, which 
should be in about an hour and a half. Take the string 
off; arrange the duck in a dish; take the grease from the 
sauce, which should be thick and rich. Have ready a 
good brown olive sauce (No. 67); add to it the sauce 
from the duck ; reduce over the fire until the proper con- 
sistency is obtained ; pour over the duck, and serve. 

JVo/t. — An old duck will take three hours to cook. 



128 POULTRY AND GAME. 

320. Duck with Small Onion3 

( Canard aux pedis oignons). 

Prepare the duck as for roasting ; place it in a stewpan 
with i oz. of butter and 2 oz. of bacon cut in dice ; salt 
and pepper. Colour it on both sides on a gentle fire, and 
with the stewpan uncovered, for about fifteen minutes. 
At this point add about a quart of stock or gravy, a glass 
of white wine, and a bouquet of parsley, laurel, and thyme ; 
let all simmer for twenty minutes. Have ready peeled 
three dozen button onions ; colour them lightly in a trying- 
pan in a little butter and a pinch of powdered sugar; 
sprinkle over them, and let it mix in the butter, a tea- 
spoonful of flour ; pour the whole into the stewpan in which 
the duck is cooking; stir all quickly with a wooden spoon 
in order to mix the flour smoothly with the gravy ; let it 
continue to cook, turning the duck occasionally, until the 
onions and bird are tender, and the sauce thick, smooth, 
and reduced to the desired consistency. Take the string 
and skewers from the duck ; arrange it on a dish ; take all 
grease from the sauce, and add to it a few drops of vinegar 
or lemon ; pour over the duck. 

321. Duck with Turnips 

( Canard aux navets). 

Arrange the duck as in the previous recipe ; colour it in 
the stewpan in 2 oz. of butter, salt and pepper, until it has 
taken a golden tint. Take out the duck ; have ready some 
young turnips trimmed into pretty shapes, and which have 
been allowed to remain a few minutes in boiling water, a 
pinch of castor sugar, colour them lightly in the stewpan 
from which the duck has been taken, and in which the 
butter remains; take them out, lay them on a plate, then 
with the butter that is left make a little thickening; 
moisten this with a quart of stock or gravy ; add a small 
onion, a bouquet of herbs ; when the sauce boils put in 



POULTRY AND GAME. 129 

the duck ; when it is half cooked add the turnips ; let all 
cook at a gentle fire. Turn the duck occasionally, taking 
care not to crush the turnips ; when all is done to a turn 
arrange the duck on a dish, take off the grease from the 
sauce, remove the bouquet of herbs, and pour all over the 
duck. Serve very hot. 

322. Pintail 

(Pintade). 

Lard the thighs of the bird, cover the breast with a 
thin layer of bacon fat, tie all well with string. It can 
be roasted in the oven, in front of the fire, or in the stew- 
pan, like a fowl ; thirty-five to forty minutes are sufficient 
to cook a large pintail. 

323. Roast Pheasant on Toast 

(Faisan sur canape ' farci). 

Pluck a fine pheasant, leaving the neck and head whole 
and with the feathers on. Reserve the feathers from the tail 
and the wings. Empty the bird, truss it, cover the breast with 
the fat of bacon ; roast it in the oven or in front of the fire, 
moistening it with 1 ]/ 2 oz. of butter melted to oil, — it will 
take from thirty-five to forty-five minutes ; baste frequently 
with the butter while cooking. In the meanwhile chop 
very fine the liver and heart with double their weight of 
bacon fat, salt, pepper ; cut a slice of bread ^ inch in 
thickness and almost as wide and long as the pheasant ; 
hollow out this bread about a quarter of its depth, place 
the chopped preparation in the bottom of the bread, 
smooth it over to equalise it, sprinkle it with bread-crumbs, 
colour it on both sides in the dripping from the pheasant, 
place it a moment or two in the oven to allow the inside 
to take colour. Arrange this crust on a long dish, place 
the pheasant upon it. Take away some of the fat from 
the gravy in the pan, add a little stock to it, boil it up, 
and strain. Arrange the plumage round the pheasant, 
I 



I30 POULTRY AND GAME. 

place slices of lemon and bunches of watercress at regular 
intervals, and serve the sauce in a tureen. 

324. Roast Partridge 

(Perdrcau rod). 

Prepare the bird the same as the pheasant, cover the 
breast with bacon fat. Roast in front of the fire or in 
the oven, basting frequently with butter. Twenty to twenty- 
five minutes will suffice to cook it. Place it on a slice of 
bread which has been placed in the oven in the butter 
in which the partridge is cooking until it becomes crisp 
and coloured ; prepare the gravy the same as for pheasant. 
Serve with slices of lemon round it, the gravy separately, 
and bread sauce in another tureen. 

325. Salmi of Partridges 

(Sal/tris de perdreaux). 

Empty the partridges, reserve the livers to put back in 
the birds before trussing them. Roast them partially — 
that is to say, not longer than ten minutes. Take off the 
skin, separate the thighs from the birds, cut the wings, 
then the fillets in two lengthwise ; put all in a stewpan. 
Cut up the remaining backbones of the birds, pound them 
with the livers in a mortar, moistening occasionally with 
a little stock. In the butter in which the birds have been 
roasted colour lightly one onion or shallot cut in slices, 
one laurel leaf, one of thyme, a few grains of peppercorns ; 
add a dessert-spoonful of flour, moisten with ij^ pint of 
stock or gravy, a glass of white or red wine ; stir over the 
fire until it boils, add the pounded bones, let all stew 
gently for thirty minutes. The sauce should be reduced 
to half, thick and smooth ; strain it through a hair-sieve 
over the pieces of partridge in the stewpan. Taste if 
properly seasoned, add a pinch of cayenne, a tumblerful 
of madeira wine, and the juice of a lemon ; let it warm 
without boiling. Arrange the pieces of partridge on an 



POULTRY AND GAME. I31 

entree-dish. Surround it with six or eight croutons of bread 
cut in the shape of a triangle and fried in butter. 

Note. — Two partridges will suffice for six persons. But- 
ton mushrooms or truffles may be added to the salmis. 

326. Salmi of Snipe 

(Salmis de bc'casses). 

Half roast two snipes, prepare the salmis in the same 
manner as in preceding recipe. With the intestines of the 
snipe, with half their weight of bacon fat, salt, pepper, 
a sprinkling of baked bread-crumbs, make all into a small 
seasoning well chopped, pass through a sieve, add to it 
a table-spoonful of brown sauce. Have ready fried in 
butter eight croutons of bread cut in triangles or half-hearts, 
upon each croilton and upon one side only place a spoonful 
of this farce, smooth it over with a knife, allowing it to 
be high in the centre only ; arrange them on a dish which 
will stand the fire, sprinkle them with baked breadcrumbs 
and moisten them well with butter melted to oil, warm 
them a few minutes in the oven. Place the salmis in an 
entre'e-d\s\\, surround it with the croutons. 

Note. — Mushrooms or truffles may also be added to 
this salmi if desired. 

327. Partridge in Aspic 

(Chau-froid de perdreau). 

Half roast the partridge, leave it to become nearly cold, 
take off the skin, and joint it. Make a sauce with good 
gravy, season it highly, add all the bones well pounded ; 
let it cook and become reduced to a thick consistency, 
pass it through a hair-sieve or tammy-cloth ; add a pinch of 
cayenne, the juice of a lemon, half a tumblerful of meat 
jelly (aspic) flavoured with madeira wine ; stir continually 
until it becomes almost cold, — to attain this, place the sauce 
in a small stewpan, and the stewpan in a large basin with 
a little pounded ice around. Dip each piece of partridge 



132 rOULTUY AND GAME. 

in this sauce, using a larding-needle for the purpose; place 
them as they are done upon a dish which has been lightly 
oiled ; sprinkle them with chopped truffles. Pour the 
sauce which remains into the bottom of the round dish 
in which you intend serving. When the whole is well set, 
place round the sauce the pieces which have been steeped 
in the jelly ; place between each piece some chopped jelly, 
slices of truffle. Decorate round the whole with crotitons, 
cut of the jelly in shape. 

328. Partridges stewed with Cabbage - 

(Perdrix aux ckoux). 

Take a good partridge, cover it with larding bacon, tie 
it up well. Cut two small white cabbages in four pieces, 
wash them, throw them in boiling water for five or six 
minutes, drain, throw cold water on them. Lay some thin 
pieces of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, one carrot, 
one onion, one bouquet of herbs ; place the partridge in 
the centre, surround it with the cabbage, well drained ; 
season with salt and pepper ; add gravy or stock to half 
the height of the contents of the stewpan. Cover tightly 
and let all stew gently until the partridge is tinder ; at this 
point remove the bird from the pan, keep it warm ; the 
cabbage should also be tender and the sauce reduced. 
Cut the partridge, arrange it in the middle of the dish, 
surround it with the cabbage ; upon each quarter of the 
latter place a slice of bacon and of carrot. Pour over all a 
little brown sauce made from the gravy — it must be without 
thickening. 

329. Timbale of Partridges 

(Ti whale de perdrcaux a la Regente). 

Prepare some quenelle meat with the raw flesh of two 
partridges (No. 265), cut some truffles in small squares, 
ornament with them a buttered timbale - mould, hold it 
for an instant upon ice, half fill it with the quenelle farce. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 1 33 

make a hollow in the centre of it allowing the farce to 
cover the sides of the mould to the top. Have ready a 
small ragout or salmi of fillets of partridges, with slices of 
foie gras or truffles ; the sauce of the salmi should be thick, 
pour it into the empty centre of the mould, cover the whole 
with the remainder of the quenelle farce, then with a buttered 
paper. Poach the timbale in a covered bain-marie for 
thirty minutes in boiling water — it must not boil too fiercely. 
Turn it upon a dish and pour madeira sauce round. 

330. Terrine or Pate" of Partridges 

(Terrine de perdreaux). 

Chop some fresh lean pork with the same quantity of the 
fat of raw bacon. Colour over a brisk fire with butter and 
chopped onions the liver of the partridges, also some livers 
of fowl or a few slices of calf s liver ; season very highly ; 
pound it and pass through a hair-sieve. Mix thispure'e with 
the chopped pork, quarters of truffles, and a small glass of 
brandy or madeira. The partridges to be boned, cut in 
quarters, and coloured over the fire in dissolved butter ; 
take them out and let them get half cold. Fill the terrine 
alternately with pieces of the birds, then cover with the 
farce. Cover the surface either with ordinary paste or 
simply with slices of bacon fat, and the cover of the terrine. 
Place the terrine in a deep dish which will stand the fire, 
pour a little boiling water in it round the mould, and put it 
in the oven ; will take one and a half to two hours to cook. 
The pate may be either served in the mould or turned out 
and surrounded with meat jelly (aspic). 

331. Cold Pate of Partridges 

{Pate froid de perdreaux). 

Line a buttered mould with paste (No. 581), the paste 
must be higher than the mould ; fill the interior with the 
farce and pieces of partridge, the same as in the above 



134 POULTRY AND GAME. 

recipe (No. 330) ; let the farce be raised high in the 
middle ; cover with a thin slice of fat bacon. Cover the 
whole with a layer of paste, fasten it with the border of 
paste which has been left for that purpose (of the under 
layer), pinch both together with the fingers, turning this 
border properly inside the mould, cut away any surplus of 
paste should there be any. Colour the surface of the pate 
with yolk of egg. Make a small opening on the top, roll 
up a piece of cardboard and place it in the opening, cook 
the pate in the oven (see No. 330). Let it get cold, fill it 
with meat jelly made from the bones of the birds. This 
jelly must be poured in almost cold through the opening at 
the top of the pate. 



332. Snipe to Roast 

(Bdcasse). 

Leave the head and neck on the bird, cover the breast 
with larding bacon, pass the beak through the breast and 
thighs ; twenty to twenty-five minutes will suffice to roast it 
either in the oven or in front of the fire, the same as for 
partridge. Serve on a slice of bread browned in the fat. 
All game is best roasted in front of the fire or in the 
stewpan. 

333. Snipe on Toast 

(Becasse sur croi'tic farcie). 

Empty the snipe before roasting it. Chop the liver with 
the intestines and a little bacon fat ; season with salt, 
pepper, a very little chopped shallot, a pinch of baked 
bread-crumbs. Cut a slice of bread, the same as for 
pheasant (No. 323), colour it lightly in butter, fill the 
hollow with \k\\% purie ; put the bread in the oven, baste it 
well with butter to cook the stuffing. Place the bread 
upon the e/i/r&-d'\sh, the snipe upon it. Serve lemon and 
gravy separately. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 1 35 

334. Roast Quails 

(Cailks). 

Prepare half-a-dozen fat quails, season them, and wrap 
each one in half a vine leaf and a piece of larding bacon 
the same size as the bird ; tie all twice round with string. 
Place them in a baking-dish with 2 oz. of butter; bake 
them in a hot oven from twelve to fifteen minutes. Take 
off the string, arrange them in an entree-dish, each one on a 
crouton of bread which has been browned in the grease of 
the quails ; make the gravy by putting a cupful of stock in 
the pan in which the birds have been cooked. To roast 
quails in the stewpan proceed in the same manner. 

335. Quails with Green Peas 

( Cailks aux petits pots). 

Proceed as for pigeons with green peas, with this differ- 
ence, they are to be moistened with one pint of stock only, 
and add the peas as soon as the quails. Cook twenty to 
twenty-five minutes. Arrange the quails in the middle of 
a round entree-6.\sh, pour over them a little good gravy and 
surround them with the peas. Quails can also be cooked 
with lettuces, with rice, or arranged upon truffles or mush- 
rooms thinly sliced. 

336. Grives. 

Choose six grives with black feet, they are the best. 
Pluck and empty them ; leave the liver in the inside. Do 
not remove the head and neck, but they must be most 
carefully cleaned, put the head through the opening at the 
side of the neck ; cover them with larding bacon ; tie them 
well. They can be cooked like quails, either in the oven, 
in the stewpan, or in front of the fire ; but the following 
is an excellent way of preparing them. Warm 2 oz. 
of butter in a stewpan ; put in the grives with salt and 



136 POULTRY AND GAME. 

pepper, cover and let them cook at a slow fire for twenty 
minutes, turning them on every side that they may take a 
good colour. If the butter in the stewpan has a tendency 
to burn, moisten with half a cupful of white wine or stock, 
taking care once the grives are cooked there should be no 
other liquid remaining at the bottom of the stewpan than 
the butter which has become again clear. Take out the 
grives and arrange them on an en/r/e-dkh. Add a good 
pinch of baked bread-crumbs to the butter in the stewpan, 
stir continually until it becomes a good colour, add the 
juice of a lemon, throw over the grives, scrape the bottom 
of the stewpan with a cupful of gravy, make hot, and 
serve separately in a sauce-tureen. 

337. Pat6 froid de Brasses (see 330). 

338. Roast Wild Duck 
{Canard sauvage). 

Cover the breast with larding bacon, tie up firmly. Roast 
in front of the fire or in the oven ; twenty to twenty five 
minutes are sufficient to cook it. Wild duck should be 
eaten with the flesh quite red, otherwise they are spoiled. 
Serve surrounded with cress and slices of lemon ; serve 
with sauce for game, poultry, or wild duck (see No. 77). 

Note. — Seville oranges, carefully skinned of all the white 
pith, cut in pieces (not flaked) and made into salad with 
oil, vinegar or lemon, and red pepper (not cayenne), which 
can be bought at good Italian warehouses, make a most 
appetising salad to eat with wild duck 

339. Larks stewed 
{Alouettes). 

Take the feet, head, and neck from three dozen larks ; 
empty them, leaving the liver inside ; put them in a stew- 
pan with 6 oz. of butter, salt, pepper; let them simmer 



POULTRY AND GAME. 137 

at a slow fire. When they have taken a good colour add 
three chopped shallots, and five minutes after a tumblerful 
of white wine, mushrooms, a little chopped parsley ; let all 
cook for a few minutes longer. Arrange the larks upon 
slices of bread fried in butter. 

340. Stewed Hare 

( Civet de lievre). 

After having emptied the hare put aside the liver, care- 
fully separated from the gall, and the blood, in a basin ; add 
to it a few drops of vinegar to prevent it curdling. Cut 
the hare into pieces of medium size ; warm 3 oz. of butter 
in a stewpan, add to it % lb. of lean bacon cut in dice, 
colour them in the butter, add 3 oz. of flour, make it all 
into a brown thickening, put in the pieces of hare ; moisten 
with a bottle of red wine and a quart of stock, salt and 
pepper. Stir without leaving it, with a wooden spoon, 
until it boils ; the sauce should cover the meat and not be 
too thick ; add a bouquet of herbs, an onion with four 
cloves in it. Cover the stewpan and leave it to stew until 
the hare is tender. A young hare will take from an hour 
and a quarter to an hour and a half, an old one may cook 
for three hours without becoming so. The sauce should 
by this time be reduced to half; take out the onion 
and herbs ; taste if sufficiently seasoned ; mix the blood 
with a teacupful of thick cream, throw over the hare ; 
shake the stewpan briskly to allow all to mix well, but it 
must not boil ; at the last moment add the liver, which has 
been sliced and saute'd (shaken) for two minutes in hot 
butter over the fire. Arrange in an entree-dish, pour the 
sauce over and garnish round with croutons of fried bread. 

Note. — This dish may be rendered more highly flavoured, 
if desired, by steeping the pieces of hare for some hours in 
the following marinade or pickle : a bottle of red wine, a 
cupful of vinegar, salt, pepper, a bouquet of herbs and an 
onion stuck with cloves. Leave the hare in this preparation 
four or five hours, then when the thickening is made, put 



138 POULTRY AND GAME. 

in the hare with this marinade, then the slock, and finish 
as above. Small button onions or mushrooms may be 
added before the hare is tender ; if onions are cooked 
with it they must be previously boiled for a few minutes. 

341. Pate" of Hare 

(Terrine de lievre). 

Remove the fillets from the hare, take off the skin, cut 
them in squares of medium size, season and pour over 
them a little cognac and marsala, leave them to soak two 
hours. Then remove the flesh from the shoulders and 
thighs, trim them from all skin and nerves, cut them into 
small pieces, put them into a frying-pan with fat bacon 
melted ; add the liver, a little chopped onion ; toss all 
over a brisk fire for a few minutes, then let them cool ; 
chop and put the whole into a mortar with almost an 
equal quantity of fat bacon and a quarter the amount of 
the latter of lean pork, the whole also chopped. Pound 
all together until well mixed and seasoned. Put this 
mixture into a basin, add to it the pieces of fillet, which 
must be well drained. With this preparation fill pate- 
moulds, cover with slices of larding bacon ; all may be 
covered with ordinary paste or merely a sheet of paper. 
Place the moulds on a baking-tin ; cook in the oven for an 
hour and a half — the time will greatly depend upon the size 
of the moulds. After taking them from the oven place a 
light weight upon them until they are cold. To be served 
cold in the moulds, which can be placed in ornamental 
ones, or serviettes pinned round them. 

342. Fillet of Venison 
{Filet de venaison). 

Trim the fillet, take off the skin that covers it, lard it 
finely. Place it in a baking-pan with one sliced onion, 
the same of carrot, thyme, laurel, and some grains of 



POULTRY AND GAME. 1 39 

whole pepper ; pour over all ]/± lb. of dissolved butter, 
sprinkle with salt, and cook in the oven for an hour and a 
half, basting very frequently. When the fillet has taken a 
golden colour arrange it on a dish ; keep it hot. If it colours 
too quickly place a sheet of buttered paper over it. Make 
a little gravy by moistening the bottom of the baking-pan 
with a cupful of stock, place over the fire an instant, strain 
it into a stewpan, take off the fat ; add a tumblerful of 
good brown sauce (No. 65), a cupful of red currant jelly, a 
little vinegar, a pinch of pepper, boil up for an instant. 
Pour a little of this sauce over the venison ; serve the 
remainder in a sauce-tureen. 



343. Rabbit stewed Brown 

(Lapin en gibelotte). 

Cut up the rabbit in small pieces, season with salt and 
pepper. Dissolve in a stewpan 1^ oz. of butter with 3 
oz. of bacon cut into dice ; add the pieces of rabbit, let them 
take a good colour, sprinkle the meat with two large spoon- 
fuls of flour ; moisten all to the level of the meat with white 
wine and stock ; stir briskly with a wooden spoon until it 
boils ; ten minutes after add a bouquet of herbs, twenty- 
four button onions peeled and scalded in boiling water, 
twenty-four small potato balls cut out with a potato-scoop, 
four bottoms of artichokes (if they can be procured) cut in 
quarters. Let all simmer, until tender, from an hour and a 
half to two hours. Take out the bouquet of herbs, take off 
all grease, arrange the rabbit on a dish and pour sauce and 
dressing over all. 

344. An excellent Recipe for Cooking last year's Birds. 

Put two slices of fat bacon and 2 oz. of butter into a 
stewpan, when brown lay in bird with a piece of butter 
on the breast ; let it brown on both sides ; add a pint of 
good gravy ; cook gently for half an hour ; take a cupful 



140 I'OULTRY AND GAME. 

of cream, mix smoothly into it a teaspoonful of flour, half 
a teaspoonful of browning, haste the bird well will) this and 
let it remain to become tender, which should be in twenty 
minutes more. 

Note. — Duck or fillet of beef are excellent prepared in 
the same manner. 



I 4 I 



EGGS AND FARINACEOUS 
DISHES 

(CEUFS ET FARINEUX). 



345. Scrambled Eggs 

(CEufs brouiltts au nature!). 

Melt in an enamelled stewpan a piece of fresh butter the 
size of an egg ; break into it six whole eggs, add a dessert- 
spoonful of cream or milk, a pinch of salt, the same of 
pepper, a tiny pinch of grated nutmeg; beat up the eggs 
for an instant either with a fork or with an egg-whisk. 
Place the stewpan upon a gentle fire, stir the eggs without 
ceasing (with a wooden spoon) until they commence to 
thicken ; when they form a thick mass place them on the 
corner of the stove, add a small piece of fresh butter ; pour 
them into a dish. Serve them with croutons of bread fried 
in clarified butter ; place the croutons round the eggs. 



346. Scrambled Eggs with Cheese 

(CEufs brouilles au frontage). 

Proceed in the same manner as in recipe No. 345, merely 
adding 1 ^ oz. of grated cheese (Parmesan or Gruyere) an 
instant before the eggs are taken from the fire. 



142 EGGS AND FARINACEOUS DISHES. 

347. Scrambled Eggs with Asparagus 
{CEufs brouillis aux pointes (Fasperges). 

Boil in boiling salted water some tops of asparagus, drain 
them, toss them half a minute in butter (over the fire), add 
them to the scrambled eggs before turning the latter out of 
the stewpan. 

348. Scrambled Eggs with Green Peas 
{CEufs brouillis aux pel its pais). 

Throw into boiling salted water a quart of freshly shelled 
young green peas ; strain them when done ; toss them an 
instant in butter over the fire, with a pinch of powdered 
white' sugar; mix them with the scrambled eggs before 
serving. 

349. Scrambled Eggs with Truffles 
(CEufs brouillis aux truffles). 

Cut some peeled truffles in very thin slices, toss them 
over the (ire in butter for a minute, add them to the 
scrambled eggs before serving. 

350. Eggs with Sweet Herbs 
(CEufs en cocottes aux fines hcrbes). 

Colour in i^ oz. of butter some chopped onions, 
mushrooms, and parsley; sprinkle with this mixture six 
china egg-shapes (well buttered). Break a new-laid egg 
into each shape, season with salt and pepper. Place these 
shapes in any utensil in which a little hot water is placed at 
the bottom ; put in the oven until the egg is lightly set. 
The egg may be cooked simply in the buttered shapes in 
exactly the same manner, merely omitting the chopped 
preparation, but when they are taken from the oven pour 
over each egg a teaspoonful of good raw cream. 



EGOS AND FARINACEOUS DISHES. 143 

351. Hard Eggs with Anchovies 

(CEufs durs aux anchois). 

Boil the eggs until they are quite hard ; have ready some 
anchovies, boned, cleaned, and chopped very fine ; mash 
the yolks of the eggs, mix all together into a smooth paste 
with butter. This makes excellent sandwiches spread on 
thin slices of bread. The proportions are about four yolks, 
two anchovies, to 2 oz. of butter ; a little pepper may be 
added. The bread for the sandwiches need not be pre- 
viously buttered before spreading on the mixture ; they are 
therefore quickly prepared. 

352. Eggs on a Plate 

(CEu/s sur le plat). 

For three eggs take a piece of butter the size of a walnut. 
Melt the butter in a round enamel dish ; break the eggs 
into it one by one ; sprinkle upon each egg a little salt and 
pepper ; cook gently on the stove or in the oven until the 
eggs are set. Place the dish with the eggs upon another 
dish, and serve. When the oven is hot four or five minutes 



353. Fried Eggs 

(CEnfs au miroir). 

Melt the butter in a small frying-pan ; break the eggs 
into it ; season them with salt and pepper ; cook gently 
until the white is set. Make sure the eggs have not stuck 
to the pan, then slide them on to a heated dish. If desired, 
a little cream may be poured over each egg. 

354. Eggs in White Sauce 

[CEitfs a la tripe). 

Boil six eggs hard, put them in cold water, shell them, 
cut them in slices lengthwise. Slice an onion, colour it 



144 EGGS AND FARINACEOUS DISHES. 

over the fire in i oz. of warm butter ; add i oz. of flour ; 
add sufficient milk or cream to make a thin sauce; season 
with salt, pepper, nutmeg ; let it cook for ten minutes ; mix 
in the eggs, warm up, and serve. 



355. Eggs fried in Oil 

{CEufs frits a Vhuile). 

Put four table-spoonfuls of oil (the very finest salad oil) 
in a small frying-pan on the fire. When the oil is quite 
hot break an egg in the pan, tilt the latter in a manner that 
the egg may bathe well in the oil. With a spoon pour the 
white over the yolk, try and keep the egg in a form as 
round as possible and well coloured on both sides. Take 
them out, place them on a serviette to well drain the oil 
from them. Continue until you have the number of eggs 
required. 

356. Baked Eggs 

{Bonliomme). 

Put in a basin two dessert-spoonfuls of flour, a pinch of 
salt (or sugar if preferred) ; break into it six whole eggs ; 
beat them up with a pint of milk. Pour this into a 
buttered dish, bake in a moderate oven. When the eggs 
have acquired a good colour serve directly. If this dish 
has been flavoured with salt send grated Parmesan or 
Gruyere cheese to table with it. 

357. Eggs in Black Butter 

{CEufs au beurre noir). 

Prepare the eggs as in recipe No. 353. At the moment 
of serving pour over them a little vinegar. Brown 1 oz. of 
butter in a pan, pour it boiling hot over the eggs. Serve 
very hot. 



EGGS AND FARINACEOUS DISHES. I45 

358. Eggs in Sauce Robert 
(CEu/s Robert). 

Boil \he eggs hard, cut them in slices lengthwise, mix 
them in half their quantity of sauce Robert (No. 359). 

359. Sauce Robert. 

Chop up a large onion ; colour it in 2 oz. of butter over 
a gentle fire ; add the same quantity of flour ; make the 
thickening ; moisten with half a tumbler of white wine and 
1 pint of gravy or broth. Let it boil, stirring all the time; 
add a pinch of pepper, some drops of caramel ; let it reduce 
one - third ; taste if sufficiently seasoned, and finish with 
1 oz. of butter mixed with a teaspoon ful of made mustard ; 
divide this butter into small pieces, put a piece at a time 
into the sauce, whisking briskly and without allowing it to 
boil ; add to the sauce two or three sliced gherkins. 

360. Eggs with Italian Paste 

(CEi/fs aux nouilles). 

Boil eight eggs hard ; cut them in quarters ; mix them 
in tomato sauce (see No. 88). Have ready boiled ^ lb. 
Italian paste (sparghetti is the best) for boiling (see No. 
18) ; put the paste round the border of the dish; pour the 
eggs into the centre. 

361. Omelet 

(Oiiiekt/e a la bourgeoise). 

Break two eggs into a basin ; add a pinch of salt and 
one of pepper, a dessert-spoonful of milk ; beat up for an 
instant with a fork ; pour into the small omelet-pan, into 
which a good piece of butter has been melted ; tilt the pan 
towards yourself, keeping the omelet spread only half over 
it, and taking an oval form ; when it has taken colour and 
K 



I46 EGGS AND FARINACEOUS DISHES. 

substance the one side, tilt the pan the opposite direction ; 
put in a good piece of butter in the empty part of the pan ; 
when melted turn the omelet over into it with a palette- 
knife ; give it a nice colour the other side ; turn on to 
a hot dish. If a very light spongy omelet is preferred, 
beat the yolks of the eggs first, then the whites to a stiff 
froth, and add them to the rest of the mixture very gently 
before pouring into the pan. A palette-knife is indispens- 
able for omelets, and above all, to become an adept in 
turning out an omelet practice is needed ; no amount of 
even practical teaching is of any use after a certain point. 
Eggs are not expensive articles, therefore the wise plan is 
to make a small one every day until the process becomes 
as easy and simple as is that of eating it. 

362. Omelet with Ham 

(Omelette au jambon). 

Cut up some cooked ham in small dice — 2 oz. of ham to 
six eggs ; colour the ham first in the pan in the dissolved 
butter ; pour in the prepared eggs ; proceed exactly the 
same as for an ordinary omelet Put in very little salt, on 
account of the ham. 



363. Omelet with Sweet Herbs 

(Omelette aux fines he'rbes). 

Merely add to the ordinary omelet, before pouring into 
the pan, chopped chives, parsley, and chervil ; if chervil 
and chives arc not at hand, only put parsley and shallot. 

364. Omelet with Cheese 

(Omelet tt au fro mage). 

Add to the omelet mixture before cooking 1 oz. of 
grated Parmesan or any other cheese. 



EGGS AND FARINACEOUS DISHES. 14/ 

865. Omelet with Asparagus 

(Omelette aux point es d'asperges). 

Cook some asparagus tops in salted water ; put them an 
instant in the heated butter in the omelet-pan, pour in the 
eggs, and finish the «melet. 

366. Omelet with Mushrooms 
(Omelette aux champignons). 

For an omelet of six eggs slice very finely six button 
mushrooms, fresh or preserved ; put them in the pan in 
the hot butter; stir them about until they have lost all 
humidity, then pour in the omelet mixture, to which a 
few fine herbs have been added. 

367. Omelet with Truffles 

{Omelette aux truffes). 

Peel and slice a truffle, fresh or preserved, then act in 
the same way as with mushrooms. 

368. Omelet with Kidneys for six persons 

(Omelette aux rognons). 

Take the skin from two kidneys ; split them in halves ; 
take away the white nerves from the inside ; cut the 
kidneys in small dice ; toss them over the fire in thin 
madeira sauce (No. 66); keep them hot. Break ten eggs; 
season with salt, pepper, a table-spoonful of dissolved 
butter ; beat up for an instant. Dissolve in the pan _%" lb. 
butter; proceed as for a plain omelet (No. 361). Place 
the omelet on a long dish ; make an incision lengthwise in 
the omelet ; pour into this opening the ragout of kidneys. 
Serve hot. 



I48 EGGS AND FARINACEOUS DISHES. 

369. Omelet with Tomatoes for six persons 

(Omelette aux tomales). 

Peel two or three very ripe tomatoes (by plunging them 
into boiling water for an instant the peel will come off 
easily) ; cut them in halves ; take out the pips ; slice them. 
Put 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan ; place in the tomatoes 
with a pinch of salt and pepper ; let them cook gently until 
all moisture has disappeared ; add a little chopped chives. 
Prepare ten eggs in exactly the same way as for omelet with 
kidneys, placing the tomatoes in the midst of the omelet 
the same as the kidneys. 

370. Stuffed Eggs (with Cheese) 
(CEufs farcis au fromage). 

Boil six eggs quite hard ; cut them lengthwise ; take out 
the yolks ; pass them through a hair-sieve. Put this into a 
basin ; season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; mix with a 
wooden spoon. Add 1 oz. of dissolved butter, the same 
quantity of grated cheese (the butter may, if preferred, be 
replaced by the same weight of cream). Fill the hollow in 
each half egg with this mixture ; arrange it in a manner to 
make it look like an entire yolk ; sprinkle it lightly with a 
little baked bread-crumbs. Lay at the bottom of a dish a 
layer of cream sauce (No. 75), rather thick; arrange the 
eg^s upon it. Put the dish in the oven for five minutes 
before serving. 

371. Croutes au Fromage (fiors-d'vuvre). 

Cut from a tin loaf the requisite number of slices ; cut 
them in squares as if for sandwiches, and about */& inch 
thick. Colour them both sides over the fire in butter; 
upon each crust of bread put a slice of Gruyere cheese 
exactly the same size and thickness; arrange the crusts in 
the pan or upon a tin ; put them in the oven ; directly the 



EGGS AND FARINACEOUS DISHES. I49 

cheese commences to melt take them out, arrange them on 
a dish, and sprinkle lightly with pepper. 

372. Malakoffs (hors-d'ceuvre chaud). 

Cut some slices of cheese $4 inch thick ; soak each slice 
in batter (see No. 132). Have two table-spoonfuls of 
butter hot in a pan on the stove ; lay in each slice of 
cheese as it is taken from the batter. When they have 
taken colour one side turn them on the other (five or six 
minutes). Arrange them on a dish and serve very hot. 

373. Ramequins au Froinage (kors cTauvre chaud). 

Two-thirds of a tumblerful of water, lyi oz. of butter, 
% lb. of flour, a pinch of salt, one of pepper, three whole 
eggs, $ J /2 oz. of grated cheese — Parmesan or Gruyere for 
preference. Put the stewpan on the fire, with water, 
butter, salt, and pepper ; directly it boils up add the flour ; 
stir briskly with a wooden spoon to make a smooth paste ; 
keep on stirring on the stove four or five minutes. Take 
the stewpan from the fire ; add the grated cheese ; let 
it get half cold ; add the eggs one by one until all is well 
mixed. Fill a table-spoon with this paste ; place it on a 
baking-tin ; continue until all is used ; colour them with 
yolk of egg, and place on the top of each a slice of 
Gruyere cheese. Put the tin into a moderate oven, in- 
creasing the heat gradually. Cook fifteen to twenty 
minutes. The ramequin should increase to double the 
size and be a beautiful colour. Serve them very hot 
upon a folded napkin. 

374. RamecLuins en petits Patds. 

A quarter pound of Gruyere cheese — half of it grated, 
the other half to be cut in small dice — a cupful of cream 
or milk, 1 oz. of dissolved butter, a teaspoonful of flour, 
a little salt and pepper, four whole eggs. Beat up the 



150 EGGS AND FARINACEOUS DISHES. 

eggs in a basin with flour, cream, butter, the grated cheese, 
the salt and pepper. With good short crust or some 
trimmings of puff-paste (see Nos. 579, 585) line twelve 
tartlet-moulds; put into each mould a dessert -spoonful 
of the mixture and a pinch of the cheese cut in dice — the 
mould should be three parts full ; place them on a baking- 
tin. Cook in a moderate oven, increasing the heat fifteen 
to twenty minutes. Take them out ; turn them out of 
the moulds ; arrange them on a napkin on a dish. Serve 
hot. 

375. A simpler way to prepare Ramequins 

(Ramequin au plat). 

Make the preparation in exactly the same manner as 
directed in No. 374; pour it into a buttered dish, bake 
in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes ; it is cooked when 
it is well risen and of a beautiful golden colour. 

376. Cheese Fritters 

(Beignets souffles au frontage — hors oVosuvre chaud). 

. Half a pint of water, 1 oz. of butter, 3 oz. of flour, a 
pinch of salt, one of pepper. Prepare the mixture the 
same as in recipe No. 373. When the paste is half cold 
add three or four eggs, one after the other, beating well 
between each egg ; then add 2 oz. of grated cheese and 
1 oz. of chopped cooked ham. Drop a table-spoonful at 
a time of this paste into frying fat, which must only be 
hot, not boiling ; then increase the temperature of the 
fat, turning the souffles frequently until they become double 
the size. When they arc a beautiful colour drain them 
and arrange them on a folded napkin. 

377. Souffle" dans un plat {hors d'a'uvre). 

One cupful of milk, 1 oz. of flour, 2 oz. of butter, six 
yolks of eggs, six whites beaten to a stiff froth, salt and 



EGG^ AND FARINACEOUS DISHES. 151 

pepper. In a small stewpan mix the flour and milk 
together quite smoothly ; add three yolks, the butter 
dissolved, salt and pepper ; stir all upon a gentle fire 
until it thickens, but do not boil (the same as a custard). 
Take the stewpan from the fire ; add 7 oz. of grated cheese 
and the remaining three yolks. Beat up the six whites to 
a stiff froth ; add them to the rest, stirring them in very 
lightly. Butter a dish or souffle-mould ; place round it a 
buttered piece of paper (to prevent the souffle from falling 
out of the mould when it rises) ; pour in the mixture and 
bake in a gentle oven, the heat to be increased as it bakes ; 
will take twenty minutes. This souffle' must be sent to 
table direct from the oven, and in the dish or mould in 
which it has been baked. The same mixture can be 
baked in small buttered paper cases three-fourths full. 



378. Allumettes aux Anchois (kors d'ceuvre chaud). 

Soak twelve anchovies in cold water; leave them for 
thirty minutes ; dry them in a cloth ; divide them in 
halves ; take out the bone ; trim the fillets and put them 
on a dish for a little while with a table-spoonful of olive 
oil and chopped parsley. Roll out to about the thickness 
of a halfpenny some puff-paste or short crust; cut from 
this paste two broad strips about 4^ inches in width ; 
moisten one of these strips with a brush dipped in beaten 
egg ; lay upon it the fillets of anchovies at the distance of 
yi inch from one another, leaving a little larger space 
at each end ; place over this strip with the anchovies the 
other piece of paste ; with the fingers press the paste 
between each anchovy, then cut them in strips with a 
knife or a cutter ; arrange them as they are cut upon 
a baking-tin; brush them over with yolk of egg. Bake 
them in a good oven for about twenty minutes. Arrange 
them in a pile on a dish covered with a folded napkin. 
Serve hot. 



152 E(JGS AND FARINACEOUS DISHES. 

379. Melted Cheese 

(Fondue au frontage). 

Melt in an enamelled saucepan a piece of fresh butter 
the size of a walnut ; add to it l / 2 lb. grated cheese. Place 
the saucepan in a larger vessel which has boiling water 
in it ; place all on a gentle fire ; stir with a spoon until 
the cheese is melted ; add a cupful of cream, a pinch 
of pepper; continue to stir until it is nearly ready to 
boil. Serve directly in the stewpan and upon a spirit- 
lamp (lighted). 

380. Melted Cheese another way 
(Autre manure). 

Break seven yolks of eggs into a stewpan; mix with 
them 6 oz. of grated cheese, pepper, nutmeg, a pinch of 
powdered white sugar, and 6 oz. of butter divided in small 
pieces. Place the stewpan over a gentle fire ; stir the 
mixture without cessation until it commences to thicken, 
then add half a cupful of good cream ; stir again for an 
instant. Serve it in a deep dish surrounded with croutons 
of bread fried in butter. 

Note. — Truffles cut in thin slices may be added to 
this mixture. 

381. Macaroni with Cheese 

(Macaronis au frontage). 

Into 2}-£ quarts of boiling water well salted throw T £ 
lb. of macaroni broken up into pieces ; let it boil without 
ceasing twenty to twenty-five minutes. Drain it upon a 
large sieve ; and then replace it in the stewpan with 3 oz. 
of fresh butter cut in small pieces, 2 oz. of grated cheese, 
a pinch of pepper ; mix all with the aid of a fork. The 
macaroni must not be broken. See if properly seasoned. 
Arrange on a dish, and serve hot. 



EGGS AND FARINACEOUS DISHES. 1 53 

Note. — Macaroni in England is seldom boiled as it 
should be ; it should be tender but not pasty — on the 
contrary, should possess a certain crispness under the 
teeth : to obtain this, when the macaroni is boiled and 
turned on to the sieve let some cold water pass quickly 
over it, return it at' once to the saucepan, and mix briskly 
with the hot butter and cheese. 

382. Macaroni with Tomatoes 
{Macaronis aux tomates). 

Prepare the macaroni as in preceding recipe (No. 381), 
adding to it a tumblerful of tomato sauce (No. 88). 
Warm up and serve. 

383. Macaroni, Milanaise fashion 

{Macaronis a la Milanaise). 

Break up j4 lb. macaroni into pieces about % inch 
long; boil it in water (see No. 381) ; drain ; put it back in 
the stewpan with a pinch of pepper, a tumblerful of good 
gravy or the same of tomato sauce (No. 88), 2 oz. of ham, 
and some mushrooms, the whole cut into dice (truffles may 
be used instead of mushrooms). Let all simmer an 
instant, then add at the last 2]/ 2 oz. of fresh butter, and 
the same of grated cheese. 

384. Macaroni au gratin 
{Macaronis au gratin). 

A good way to prepare this dish to avoid it being too 
dry, which frequently occurs, is to prepare the macaroni with 
cheese according to recipe No. 381, then at the very last 
add a tumblerful and a half of cream or be'chaniel sauce 
(see Nos. 75 and 98). The sauce must not be too thick. 
Butter a dish ; put in the macaroni ; sprinkle the top with 
grated cheese and baked bread crumbs, then moisten with 



154 EGGS AND FARINACEOUS DISHES. 

a little dissolved butter. Put the dish in the o\en to take 
a pale golden colour on the surface. 

385. Timbale of Macaroni 

{Timbale de macaronis). 

Line a timbale mould with short crust (No. 582) ; fill 
the mould with macaronis ait frontage (No. 381). Pake the 
timbale in a good oven until it is sufficiently coloured. 

386. Timbale of Macaroni with Bechamel Sauce 
{Timbale de macaronis a la bechamel). 

Prepare the mould with paste as in recipe No. 385 ; add 
to the macaronis an frontage half its quantity of bichamel 
sauce (No. 98); fill the mould. 13ake in the oven until 
coloured. 

Note. — Vermicelli, sparghetti, and all Italian pastes can 
be cooked in the same manner as macaroni. 

387. Rice 

(Risotto). 

Colour for an instant in butter a chopped onion ; add 
to it Yi, lb. of Patna rice picked but not washed ; stir an 
instant over the fire until it begins to frizzle, but do not 
colour ; add stock to three times the quantity of rice, 
a cupful of tomato sauce (No. 88), a pinch of saffron, "dhe 
of pepper ; boil up ; cover the saucepan, and let it cook 
by the side of the fire for twenty minutes. If the rice 
becomes dry before it is sufficiently tender add a little more 
stock. Place the saucepan on the corner of the stove away 
from the fire ; add then to the rice 2 oz. of grated Parmesan 
cheese, the same amount of butter. Taste if sufficiently 
seasoned. Arrange the rice on a dish ; pour over it some 
good gravy. Serve very hot. 



EGGS AND FARINACEOUS DISHES. 1 55 



388. Timbale de Risotto. 

Butter a timbale-mould, and sprinkle baked bread-crumbs 
over the butter. Beat up well two eggs in a cup ; pour 
them into the mould, turn the latter well round to allow 
the eggs to adhere to the butter and bread-crumbs ; then 
reverse the mould on a plate to drain it of the superfluous 
eggs ; sprinkle once more inside with the baked bread- 
crumbs. Prepare a risotto (No. 387) with */% lb. of rice; 
add to it a stewed sweetbread, 2 oz. of cooked ham, and 
some mushrooms or truffles, the whole cut in small slices. 
Fill the mould with the risotto ; cover the surface with a 
buttered paper, then again with any kind of lid or cover. 
Put the mould in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Before 
dishing it pass the blade of the knife between the mould 
and the rice, taking care not to destroy the dressing of 
bread-crumbs. Turn out on a dish. Serve with a tureen 
of good gravy or brown sauce. 



389. Pilau 

(Riz a la persane). 

Take ]/ 2 lb. of Patna rice, pick it and wash it in cold 
water. Boil 2 quarts of water with a good pinch of salt, 
juice of half a lemon ; add the rice ; let it cook ten 
it minutes; drain it. Put in a small stewpan 4 oz. of 
clarified butter ; when it is hot add to it the scalded rice; 
stir it wefl. Cover the rice with white paper wetted, and 
close the stewpan as tightly as possible ; put it in the 
oven, which must not be too hot. At the end of half an 
hour uncover the stewpan ; lift off the top layer of rice if 
it is coloured ; turn the remainder on to a dish, using a 
fork for the purpose. 



156 EGGS AND FARINACEOUS DISHES. 

390. Indian Corn 
{Polenta). 

Boil 1 ]/, pint of water with a little salt, then add to it 
% lb. of polenta, letting it fall in the water gradually like 
rain and stirring all the time with a spoon. Let it cook 
until it thickens ; add a piece of butter. Serve hot. 

391. Polenta with Cheese 
(Polenta au Parmesan). 

Cook the polenta as above (No. 390), then with a table- 
spoon form it into small lumps ; arrange them on a dish ; 
sprinkle them with grated cheese ; pour over them some 
butter cooked brown, but not burnt, l'ut the dish in the 
oven a few minutes before serving. 



157 



VEGETABLES 

{LEGUMES). 



392. Asparagus 

(As/erges en branches). 

Wash and trim the asparagus ; arrange it in bundles, a 
handful in each, and tie round tightly ; put it into boiling 
salted water ; boil fifteen to twenty minutes. When the 
point of the asparagus is soft to the touch it is cooked. 
If ready too soon plunge it into a basin of cold water, 
then put it back directly into the boiling water. Drain 
well, and send it to table on toasted bread or a folded 
napkin. Asparagus can be served with many different 
sauces — Hollandaise (No. 70), cream sauce (No. 75), or 
a good butter sauce (No. 64). It is excellent eaten with a 
simple vinaigrette sauce (No. 97). 

393. Asparagus Tops 

(Pointes cFasperges). 

Choose the very small asparagus ; cut all the tender 
parts into small peas ; wash and cook them like the whole 
asparagus ; drain and pour cold water over them. They 
are then ready to be used as a garnishing or as a vegetable. 



158 VEGETABLES. 



394. Cauliflower 

{Chou-Jleur). 

Choose the cauliflowers close and firm ; divide them into 
small bouquets ; take off the leaves and trim the stem a 
little; throw them into cold water salted. Have some 
boiling salted water ready ; throw in the cauliflowers ; let 
them boil until they are tender to the touch. Arrange 
them well drained on a dish upon a folded napkin ; place 
the pieces so as to form the entire cauliflower. Serve with 
butter, cream, or hollandaise sauce (Nos. 64, 75, 70). 

395. Cauliflower with Fried Crumbs 

(Chou-fleur au pain frit). 

Prepare the cauliflower in the same manner as above 
(No. 394) ; throw over it when cooked the following sauce : 
melt in a pan a piece of butter the size of an egg ; add 
some bread-crumbs ; stir over the fire until the bread turns 
a good colour ; sprinkle the cauliflower with chopped 
parsley, then throw the butter and bread-crumbs over all. 
Serve hot. 

396. Cauliflower au Gratin 
{Chou-fleur au gratin). 

Poil the cauliflower as in the preceding recipe (it must 
be left whole); drain and leave it for five minutes upon 
a sieve. Make a thick sauce with 2 oz. of butter, two 
table-spoonfuls of flour, ^ pint of milk ; season with salt, 
pepper, nutmeg, a table-spoonful of grated cheese, one egg 
beaten up. Put a little of this sauce at the bottom of a 
buttered dish ; place the cauliflower upon it ; smooth the 
surface with the remainder of the sauce ; sprinkle with 
grated cheese and - bread-crumbs ; pour over all 2 oz. of 
dissolved butter. Put the dish in the oven for about 
fifteen minutes until the gratin takes a beautiful colour. 



VEGETABLES. 1 59 

897. Boiled Artichokes 

(Artickauts bouillis). 

Cut off the stalks and the sharp points from the leaves ; 
trim the bottom part of the outside of the artichoke ; cut it 
in halves, which is easily done by turning it upside down ; 
take out all the useless part from the inside ; throw them 
into cold water to which a little vinegar or lemon-juice has 
been put. Boil a sufficient quantity of water with a hand- 
ful of salt ; plunge the artichokes into it ; let them boil 
until tender (about two hours). Drain them ; arrange 
them on a dish upon a folded napkin. Serve with any of 
the sauces suitable for asparagus ; they are excellent served 
with simple vinaigrette sauce (No. 97). 

398. Artichokes a. la Lyonaise 

(Artichauts a la lyonaise). 

Trim four large artichokes ; cut them in quarters ; take 
off the outside leaves — each quarter should not possess 
more than three or four leaves ; take out the useless part 
from the inside ; put them in cold water with a few drops 
of vinegar or lemon ; let them boil for five minutes in 
boiling water, then throw cold water over them. Lightly 
colour a chopped onion in 1 y 2 oz. of butter ; add the 
same quantity of flour ; make a thickening ; moisten with 
1 pint of stock or gravy to form a thin sauce ; season with 
salt and pepper. Place the quarters of artichoke side by 
side at the bottom of a stewpan sufficiently large j it must 
be well buttered. Add the sauce in a manner that only 
the lower part of the artichokes are touched by it ; the 
leaves should remain dry ; cover them ; let them cook 
gently for thirty minutes. 



160 VEGETABLES. 

399. Artichoke Bottoms 

(Fo/ids d 'artichauis). 

Take away the leaves and beards from the artichokes, 
leaving nothing but the flat pieces at the bottom ; trim these 
all one size ; put them in cold water with a little lemon 
juice in it. Mix a table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan 
with sufficient water to cover the pieces of artichoke ; let 
them boil up ; add the artichoke bottoms and the juice of 
half a lemon. Let them cook until they are quite tender. 
Arrange them in a dish with a little sauce in each one. 

400. Green Peas with Lettuces 
{Pedis pot's aux laitues). 

Make a thickening with 2 02. of butter ; the same of 
flour ; do not let it take colour. Put into the thickening 
1 quart of fresh young green peas ; add sufficient water to 
cover the peas. Stir over the fire until it boils ; put in 
the hearts of two cos lettuces (sliced), two small button 
onions, one sprig of parsley. Let it cook until lettuces 
and peas are tender and the sauce reduced to half the 
quantity. Before serving take out the onion and parsley ; 
thicken the sauce with two or three yolks beaten up with 
a little cream or milk and 1 oz. fresh butter. Taste if 
sufficiently salted. 

401. Green Peas, French fashion 

{Pctits pois a la francaise). 

Mix well in a stewpan 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of flour, a 
pinch of sugar, two pinches of salt, one of pepper. Put in 
a quart of fresh young peas and boiling water to cover the 
peas. Stir over the fire until it boils, then add a small 
onion, a sprig of parsley. Cook until the peas arc tender 
and the sauce reduced one-half. Before serving take out 
the onion and parsley ; thicken with two yolks of eggs 



VEGETABLES. l6l 

beaten up in two dessert-spoonfuls of milk, i oz. of fresh 
butter, a few grains of nutmeg. 



402. Potted Peas 

(Petits pot's conserves). 

Potted peas are heated in the water they are preserved 
in ; then drain them and return them to the stewpan with 
a piece of butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, a pinch of sugar, 
and if desired a little thickening with yolks of eggs and 
milk. 

403. Spinach in brown Butter 

(Epinards a la noisette). 

Pick and well wash 2 lb. of spinach. Boil a sufficient 
quantity of water with a good piece of salt in it ; put in the 
spinach ; leave the saucepan uncovered ; drain and pour 
cold water over it ; press well to extract all the water ; chop 
finely. Put l /£ lb. of butter in the stewpan ; let it get hot 
and slightly brown but not burnt ; add to it the chopped 
spinach. Stir all briskly ; add salt, pepper, nutmeg. Let 
it heat for ten minutes, turning frequently. 

404. Spinach with Gravy 
{Epinards au jus). 

Scald and chop the spinach ; melt 2 oz. of butter in a 
stewpan with the same quantity of flour, make a thicken- 
ing ; mix the spinach with this ; moisten with 1 pint of 
gravy or stock. Stir until it thickens ; season with salt, 
pepper ; let it simmer for ten minutes. Arrange it on a 
dish ; and pour over a little good gravy. 

Note. — Spinach may be prepared in the same manner 
with cream or milk to replace the gravy or stock. 
L 



1 62 VEGETABLES. 

405. Chicory and Endive 
(Chicorfe et endives). 

Chicory is scalded the same as spinach, but needs a 
little longer time in the boiling water. It is prepared the 
same in brown butter, gravy, or cream. 

406. The way to cook fresh Vegetables so that they 
keep their Colour. 

Put them into water which is boiling to the highest 
point. Do not cover them, nor allow the water to cease 
boiling. 

407. French Beans 

(Haricots verts a i'ang/aise). 

The ordinary manner in which French beans are cooked 
in England renders them most certainly a very tasteless 
vegetable. They are far better cooked whole than sliced 
in the usual way. The tops and tails must be cut off and 
all strings removed, but otherwise left whole. Of course I 
am referring to quite young, freshly cut beans ; when they 
are old and stale nothing will make them tender. Throw 
the beans into boiling water, into which a sufficient 
quantity of salt has been thrown ; let them cook until 
tender. Drain, salt lightly ; arrange them in a pyramid 
with a good piece of butter divided in small slices and 
placed among the beans. 

408. Haricot French Beans sautdd 

{Haricots verts saui/s). 

Boil the beans as in preceding recipe. Melt 3 oz. of 
butter ; add the beans well drained to it ; season with salt 
and pepper. Shake them about for some minutes until 
the beans have lost all their humidity and the butter has 
become clear again. Add a little chopped parsley ; a little 
squeezed lemon is also an improvement. 



VEGETABLES. 163 

409. Haricot Beans with Onions 
{Haricots verts sautes aux oignons). 

Proceed exactly the same as in preceding recipe. Simply 
colour a chopped onion in the butter before adding the 
haricots. 

410. Haricot Beans Peasant Fashion 

{Haricots a la paysanne). 

Scarlet-runners may be used for this dish, and they must 
be sliced and cut. Put them in boiling water, which must 
only reach to half their height ; add a piece of lean bacon 
or ham, a sliced onion, salt, and pepper. Cook until 
beans and bacon are tender and the liquid reduced to 
one-third of the original quantity. 

411. French Beans h l'HSteliere 
(Haricots verts a Vhoteliere). 

Take 1 oz. of butter, the same of flour, and V2 pint 
of stock ; make with these a thin sauce seasoned with salt, 
pepper, and a little nutmeg. Add the French beans boiled 
as in preceding recipes ; let them cook for an instant until 
the sauce is reduced to one-third ; at this point add a little 
grated shallot, some chopped parsley, a little lemon-juice or 
vinegar, and some fresh butter divided in small pieces. 
Stir all briskly together. 

412. Dried White Beans boiled 

(Haricots b lanes sees). 

They must be steeped in tepid water for at least twelve 
hours — useless to attempt cooking them if this precaution 
has been neglected. The largest beans are the best, except 
for garnishing, when the small ones do equally well. Place 
them on the fire in a sufficient quantity of cold water, a 
pinch of salt, a bouquet pf herbs, one onion pierced with 



164 VEGETABLES. 

two cloves. Let them cook until quite tender ; take out 
the herbs and onion. They will take quite four to five 
hours to boil. They are most indigestible if insufficiently 
cooked. 

413. White Beans in Sauce 
(Haricots blancs en sauce). 

Make a pint of white sauce (No. 104) with stock; add 
the beans well boiled and drained to it ; season well and 
let them cook an instant. Before serving thicken them 
with two yolks of eggs beaten up in a little milk, 1 oz. of 
fresh butter, and some chopped parsley. The beans can 
be made richer by using cream instead of milk. 

414. Pure"e of White Eeans 

(Puree de haricots blancs garniture). 

Boil 1 lb. of haricot beans as above ; pass them through 
a hair-sieve, but first crush and moisten them with their 
own stock. Put this puree back in the stewpan ; heat it, 
stirring all the time. Should it be too thick add a little 
gravy or stock ; season and finish by adding a little good 
meat gravy. This puree is excellent served with a roast leg 
of mutton ; it can also be made with milk and a little piece 
of fresh butter. 

415. Haricot Beans Breton fashion 

(Haricots blancs a la brclonne). 

Fry a chopped onion in butter, but it must not take 
colour ; add a tumblerful of stock, half a tumblerful of 
white wine, seasoning, and chopped parsley Put in the 
beans which have been boiled and strained ; after straining 
do not let the beans cool, but throw them at once back 
into the stewpan. Let them simmer until beans and sauce 
are well mixed together. 



VEGETABLES. \6$ 



416. Baked Beans (an economical family dish). 

Take two New Zealand necks of mutton — they will cost 
is. 6d. each; trim all the best part for cutlets; cut away 
all the flesh from the remaining parts ; chop up the bones 
and make a good brown gravy with them (No. 56). This 
must be done the day previous to the preparation of the 
stew, as the bones require several hours' cooking, and when 
cold the fat must be removed. Have some haricot beans 
soaked and parboiled ; strain and throw them immediately 
into a brown earthenware pan into which the gravy, made 
hot, has been placed. Put in a large onion washed but 
not peeled, the pieces of mutton, a teaspoonful of salt, half 
of pepper, a fourth of ground ginger, and a very little nut- 
meg ; a few grains of cayenne. The gravy should cover 
the beans ; the latter should never be allowed to become 
dry. Cover the pan with some brown paper pierced with 
holes with a fork ; bake in the oven until meat and beans 
are quite tender. The oven must be moderate, and as the 
gravy diminishes more added : it will doubtless require 
more seasoning. When done it should have a rich brown 
appearance, the beans be perfectly tender, to be eaten all 
together — a kind of hotch-potch. One pint and a half of 
beans will make a good-sized dish. They should be the 
very largest size procurable. The exact time for baking it 
is impossible to give, certainly not less than four to five 
hours. 

417. Brussels Sprouts in Butter 

(C/ioux de Bruxelles au beurre). 

Boil 2 lb. of sprouts in boiling salted water ; when they 
are tender put them in a sieve ; pour cold water through 
them — this allows them to keep their original colour; press 
them lightly to extract all the water. Warm in the stewpan 
^ lb. of butter ; add the sprouts to it. Season with salt 
and a little pepper; toss them over the fire for seven 
minutes. 



1 66 VEGETABLES. 

418. Brussels Sprouts in Sauce 

(Choux de Britxelles en sauce). 

Prepare the sprouts in butter (No. 417); thicken them 
with white or cream sauce (Nos. 104 and 75). 

419. Stewed Cos Lettuces 
(Laitues romaines). 

Take off the outer leaves; wash them carefully, keeping 
them as whole as possible ; boil for ten minutes in boiling 
salted water; pour cold water through them; drain. Extract 
the water from them by pressing each lettuce lightly with 
two hands ; split them in halves lengthwise ; take off the 
stalk ; sprinkle with salt and pepper. Put them in a 
stewpan, placing each half lettuce partly over the other 
round the pan. The latter must be well buttered before 
putting in the lettuces, or in place of butter some very good 
gravy from which all grease has been taken. Add stock to 
half the height of the lettuces ; cover and cook them gently 
for an hour. The lettuces should be tender and the 
liquid much reduced. 

Note. — Lettuces may be cooked in the same manner 
with a little lean bacon, ham, or sausage; in the latter 
case water may be used instead of stock. The small 
lettuces can also be prepared exactly the same ; they can 
be served as a vegetable or for garnishing. 

420. Lettuces Stuffed 

(Laitues a Vancienne). 

Chop finely a handful of spinach, a pinch of chervil, a 
few chives, a few leaves of fresh mint. Stir all over the 
fire in a little butter until all moisture is reduced ; at this 
point add a teaspoonful of (lour, a pinch of baked bread- 
crumbs, salt, pepper, a whole egg beaten up; stir briskly; 
let it thicken over the fire, continuing the stirring, then let 



VEGETABLES. 1 67 

this farce get half cold. In the interval boil some whole 
lettuces for six minutes — exactly the same as for laitues 
romaines (No. 419). After having squeezed them to 
extract the water, open each lettuce, taking off the leaves 
one by one without spoiling them ; take away part of the 
stem ; fill up the cavity with a spoonful of the farce ; 
re-form the lettuce by putting on each leaf again one by 
one. Then make a sauce in rather a large stewpan with 
2 oz. of butter, the same of flour, and some stock. The 
sauce must be thin. Season. with salt and pepper; arrange 
the lettuces side by side in the sauce ; stew gently until 
they are tender and the sauce reduced. Place the lettuces 
on a dish ; thicken the sauce with two yolks of eggs and a 
little cream ; throw over the lettuces, and serve. 

421. Lettuces for Garnishing 

(Laitues farcies — gam iture). 

Boil the lettuces whole and stuff them as above (No. 420) 
with the paste for quenelles de veau (No. 26.1). Proceed 
the same as for laitues romaines (No. 419). 

422. Stewed Celery Roots 

{Ceteris a I'e'tuve'e). 

Peel four celery roots, cut them in quarters, then slice 
them. Warm % lb. of butter in a stewpan ; add the 
slices of celery to it, a good pinch of salt, one of pepper. 
Cover the pan ; look at them frequently, moving them well 
with the slice. When tender put them in a vegetable dish, 
sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. 

423. Stick Celery 

(Ceteris en branches'). 

Strip the outer leaves from six heads of celery ; cut away 
the ends from the leaves ; trim the ends to a point ; wash 
them carefully. Cook them fifteen minutes in boiling 



168 VEGETABLES. 

salted water ; drain and pass cold water through them 
Line a stewpan with some trimmings of fat bacon ; put in 
the celery ; well season them ; merely cover them with 
stock or water and a small piece of sweet beef dripping. 
Cover the stewpan ; cook gently for one and a half hour. 
Drain them carefully in order not to break them ; split 
them in two lengthwise; arrange them on a dish in the 
form of a pyramid. Serve them with white or brown sauce 
served separately in a sauce-boat. 

424. Fried Salsify 
{Salsifis frits). 

Scrape the salsify, trim the ends in a point ; cut each 
piece in two and throw them as they are done into a basin 
of cold water in which a little milk, lemon-juice, or vinegar 
has been put. Boil 2 quarts of water in a stewpan, with a 
pinch of salt and a little vinegar or lemon-juice ; when the 
water boils throw in the salsifis ; let it boil until tender; 
drain. Place the salsify in a dish with a table-spoonful 01 
best olive oil, one of vinegar, pepper, salt, and a little 
chopped parsley ; let it soak fifteen minutes. Have ready 
a batter (No. 132) ; steep each piece of salsify in the batter, 
then into hot fat (No. 106). When they have taken a 
beautiful colour, drain and arrange them in a stack on a dish. 
Serve hot. 

425. Salsify in White Sauce 

(Salsifis au velouit). 

Proceed exactly the same as for recipe No. 424. When 
the pieces of salsify are boiled and drained put them in a 
vegetable dish ; throw over them white, butter, or cream 
sauce. 

426. Salsify in Vinaigrette Sauce 

{Salsifis en vinaigrette). 

Prepare and boil the salsify as for preceding recipes. 
Serve simply with vinaigrette sauce (No. 97) thrown over. 



VEGETABLES. 1 69 

427. Stewed Leeks 
(Poireaux). 

Choose ten large white leeks ; scald them in boiling 
salted water for two minutes ; drain them. Return the 
leeks to the stewpan, in which 2 oz. of butter have been 
melted ; a little pepper ; shake them for two minutes in the 
butter ; sprinkle over them a dessert-spoonful of flour, then 
add 1 pint of water or stock. Stir until they boil ; at this 
moment add a liver sausage. Let all cook gently for forty 
minutes ; take out the sausage and see if sufficiently 
seasoned. Arrange the leeks on a dish and garnish them 
with the sausage cut up. 

Note. — These sausages may be found in any German 
delicatessen warehouse. 

428. Turnips in White Sauce 

(Navels). 

They may be cooked whole if very young ; if not, cut 

and trimmed in the shape of small pears. Boil them 

tender in boiling salted water; drain. Mix them with 
white or cream sauce. 

429. Turnips stewed in Butter 
(Navels an caramel). 

Prepare the turnips as above ; put them into boiling 
salted water ; take them out when half cooked ; drain 
them. Melt a piece of butter in a stewpan ; add the 
turnips to it ; sprinkle them with a pinch of powdered 
white sugar, the same of cinnamon, a little salt. Cover 
them ; let them finish, cooking very gently and turning 
them from time to time, but they must not be moistened. 
When the turnips are tender and of a golden colour dish 
them. 



170 VEGETABLES. 



430. Carrots in White Sauce 
{Caret tes). 

If the carrots are large cut them in rounds or in small 
squares. Boil them in boiling salted water until they are 
almost tender ; drain them ; then they may be mixed with 
white or cream sauce. They are very good merely tossed 
in a stewpan with fresh butter, salt, pepper, and chopped 
parsley. Small new' carrots can be prepared just the same, 
but they must be left whole. 

431. Glazed Carrots 
{Carol tes glades). 

For this dish small new carrots are the best. Trim them 
all alike in a round form after having scraped them ; boil 
them for ten minutes in boiling salted water ; drain. 
Return them to the stewpan with a piece of butter, a 
pinch of white sugar, the same of salt ; add to half their 
height water or stock ; cover the stewpan, let them simmer. 
When the carrots are tender, the stock absorbed, and the 
butter commencing to become clear, the carrots are ready 
to serve. 

432. Carrots and Green Peas 

{Carottes et petit pois). 

Take young carrots and young green peas ; boil them 
separately, then toss them for ten minutes in a stewpan 
with butter, pepper, and salt. If preferred, mix them with 
a good white or cream sauce. 

433. Cardons. 

Choose the whitest part of the cardons ; remove the 
sharp points ; cut them in pieces about 3 inches long ; 
take off the thin skin that covers them ; throw them at 
once into a basin of cold water with a little vinegar or 



VEGETABLES. 171 

lemon-juice in it. Boil them lor ten minutes in a large 
saucepan of boiling salted water; drain and pour cold 
>vater over them. Boil some fresh water with salt ; mix a 
dessert -spoonful of flour in a little water ; mix it to the 
boiling water, the juice of half a lemon, a bouquet of 
herbs, one onion pierced with two cloves, a little sweet beef 
dripping. Cover the stewpan ; let all cook gently an hour 
and a half to two hours. When cooked they may be 
served with a good brown gravy, brown sauce, white sauce, 
or au trratin. 



434. Cardons stewed with Marrow 

{Cardons a la moelle). 

Boil the cardons as in recipe No. 433. Cut ^£ lb. of beef 
marrow in slices ; cook the slices of marrow five minutes in 
boiling salted water. Arrange the cardons in a pyramid on 
a dish ; garnish them round with the slices of marrow, each 
slice placed upon a crouton of fried bread. Throw over the 
cardons the following sauce : reduce a cupful of very rich 
gravy or melt a little meat glaze ; add a piece of butter, the 
juice of half a lemon, salt, pepper, chopped parsley; boil 
up for a second. 

435. Stewed Tomatoes 

(Tomates sautees a la provencale). 

Plunge the tomatoes for half a minute in boiling water, 
take off the skin ; cut them in halves ; squeeze out the 
water and seeds. Put three dessert-spoonfuls of olive oil in 
a stewpan with two chopped shallots ; fry them a light 
colour; add the tomatoes; sprinkle with salt and pepper; 
shake them occasionally ; let them remain on the stove for 
twelve minutes ; finish by adding a little chopped parsley. 



172 VEGETABLES. 

436. Stuffed Tomatoes 
( Tomates farcies). 

Choose good firm tomatoes ; take away the stalks ; cut 
them in halves. Take out the water and pips. Arrange 
them side by side in a large well-buttered dish. In each 
half tomato place a spoonful of the farce ; smooth the 
surface with a knife. Sprinkle baked bread-crumbs over 
them ; pour dissolved butter over ; put them in the oven 
for fifteen minutes. They are cooked when they have 
taken a good colour. 

Farce for above. — Chop an onion, some mushrooms, a 
sprig of parsley, the same of chervil, half a tomato. Stir 
all over the fire with 2 oz. of butter and two dessert- 
spoonfuls of oil. When all the moisture is evaporated and 
the butter become clear add a cupful of gravy or stock, a 
pinch of baked bread-crumbs, salt, pepper ; mix all together 
to make the mixture rather thick. 

Note. — Tomatoes can also be stuffed with sausnge-meat 
seasoned to taste. A farce can also be made from remains 
of cold meat. 

437. Sorrel 
{Oseille). 

Wash the sorrel thoroughly ; put it into 2 quarts of 
boiling salted water ; let it cook until tender ; drain ; press 
it lightly to extract the water ; pass through a sieve. Make 
a white thickening with 2 oz. of butter, the same of flour ; 
add the sorrel to it ; as it thickens, add gradually stock 
or gravy ; season with salt and very little pepper ; let it 
simmer for ten minutes. Serve with croutons of fried bread 
round the dish or hard eggs cut in quarters. 

Note. — Sorrel is the best vegetable to eat with roast 
veaL 



VEGETABLES. I7j 

438. Fried Aubergines 
{Aubergines f rites). 

Take off the skin from the aubergines ; cut them in two 
lengthwise, then in two again across; make some slight 
incisions in the pieces with a knife ; sprinkle them with 
salt and pepper ; leave them for an hour. Dry them in a 
white cloth ; pass them through flour, then into hot frying 
fat (No. 106). When they are a good colour drain them; 
stack them on a dish. 



(Aubergines au gratia). 

Prepare and fry the aubergines as above. Arrange them 
upon a dish in layers ; at the bottom of the dish put some 
cream or tomato sauce, and between each layer of the 
aubergines sprinkle grated cheese, and pour over all some 
dissolved butter. Put in the oven to take colour. 

440. Red Cabbages 

(Choux rouges). 

Cut two red cabbages in quarters; take away the stem; 
wash them and shred them finely. Put 1 oz. of butter in 
a stewpan with 3 oz. of lean bacon cut into small dice. 
Colour the bacon and butter for an instant ; add the 
cabbages with salt and pepper ; cover the stewpan, let 
all stew gently for an hour and a half, shaking occasionally. 
When finished add three dessert-spoonfuls of vinegar. 

441. Stuffed Cabbages 

(Fanotis de choux et chou farci). 

Take a white summer cabbage ; scald it in boiling water 
for six or eight minutes ; pour cold water over it ; open 
delicately one leaf after another. In the middle put a 



174 VEGETAHLES. 

lump of the farce, cover over with the leaves, then some 
more farce, and so on until the cabbage is re-formed. 
Cover it with some slices of bacon ; tie it up. Butter the 
bottom of a stewpan ; lay in the cabbage, an onion pierced 
with two cloves, a bouquet of herbs. Cover to half the 
height of the cabbage with stock; cook gently for an hour. 
Arrange the cabbage on a dish ; keep it hot. Reduce 
quickly the stock in the stewpan to a cupful ; add a piece of 
butter and a little chopped parsley ; pour over the cabbage. 
Stuffing for the above. — Scald four handfuls of spinach ; 
pour cold water through it ; squeeze the water well out of 
it ; chop finely ; colour it for five minutes in butter ; season 
with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, a dessert-spoonful of flour, 
and y 2 lb. of chestnuts boiled and mashed. Mix all well 
together with one or two eggs ; let it get half cold before 
putting into the cabbage. 

442. Cabbage with Bacon 
(C/ioux au lard). 

Cut three summer cabbages in quarters ; wash them ; 
boil them for ten minutes in boiling salted water ; pour 
cold water over them ; squeeze each piece to extract all 
the water ; take out the stem ; salt and pepper the inside. 
Re-form the cabbages ; arrange them in a stewpan lined 
with some good fat, an onion pierced with cloves, a bouquet 
of herbs, a piece of lean bacon or a slice of raw ham. Just 
cover with water ; cover the stewpan ; and cook for an 
hour and a half. If the bacon is cooked first take it out. 
When the cabbages are done the stock should be nearly all 
absorbed. Arrange the cabbages on a dish and garnish 
with the bacon cut in slices. 

443. Cabbages German fashion 
{Choitx a Valle?7iande). 

Trim the cabbages, cook them in boiling salted water. 
When they are tender pour cold water through them ; press 



VEGETABLES. 1 75 

them to extract the water. Chop them. Warm in a stew- 
pan y^ lb. of butter or good dripping ; put in the cabbage ; 
stew gently for twenty minutes. Add pepper and salt 
before it is finished. 

444. Lentils 

(Lenti/ks). 

Can be prepared in every way the same as white dried 
haricot beans. 

445. Mushrooms on Crusts 
(Croutes anx champigtions). 

Prepare the mushrooms the same as for sauce (No. 6S) ; 
cut them in pieces if they are too large. Put them in a 
stewpan with a piece of butter ; sprinkle them with a 
dessert-spoonful of flour ; just cover them with water or 
stock, and their essence if tinned ; stir over the fire until 
they boil ; season with salt and pepper ; cook twenty 
minutes. The sauce should be then partly reduced ; at 
this point thicken the ragout with two yolks of eggs beaten 
up in a little lemon-juice or vinegar, chopped parsley, and 
fresh butter. Take six small rolls ; cut them in halves ; 
take out the crumb ; butter the crusts inside ; dry them a 
little at the entrance of the oven. Arrange the crusts on a 
dish ; fill them with the ragofits of mushrooms. 

Note. — On the Continent this ragout is flavoured with a 
suspicion of garlic, as well as many more of the dishes the 
recipes for which are in this work, but in deference to 
English palates shallots or chives have been substituted. 

446. Stuffed Mushrooms 
(Champignons farcis). 

Trim and wash in several waters two dozen mushrooms 
(very large ones); take off the stalks, which are to be chopped 
and coloured over the fire in oil or butter, and an onion and 



176 VEGETABLES. 

two shallots finely chopped. When all has taken colour 
add, if liked, a tiny piece of "rated garlic, a dessert- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper ; thicken this 
mixture with two or three yolks of eggs. Fill the mush- 
rooms with it, smoothing them with a knife to a point in 
the middle. Place them on an oiled tin ; sprinkle them 
with baked bread-crumbs ; pour over them oil or dissolved 
butter, and cook them in a moderate oven lor twenty-five 
minuus. 

447. Truffles 

(Trujfes a la serviette). 

Steep the truffles in cold water ; brush them carefully, 
and wash them. Put them in a small stewpan ; just 
cover them with white wine (or red) ; salt, two cloves, a 
laurel leaf. Cover the stewpan ; cook at a slow fire. 
The wine should be nearly all absorbed. Serve the 
truffles between a folded napkin. 

448. Potatoes in Butter 

{Pommes de terre saute'es ernes). 

Cut the potatoes in thin slices. Warm 3 oz. of butter 
or fat in a shallow pan ; put in the potatoes ; add salt. 
Cover the pan with a dish or plate according to its size ; 
let the potatoes cook slowly, tossing them occasionally 
and turning them with a slice. When they are tender 
take off the cover ; place the pan on a good fire to colour 
the potatoes sufficiently ; add a pinch of chopped parsley. 

449. Potatoes German fashion 

(Pom me s de terre a Vallcmande). 

Arrange upon a dish some potatoes, well boiled. They 
must be quite floury ; they may be kept whole or cut 
in quarters. Sprinkle them with either some bread-crumbs 
fried in butter or some onion fried and chopped, or dissolved 
fresh butter mixed with a little freshly chopped parsley. 



VEGETABLES. 177 

450. 

{To tines de pommes de terre). 

Peel and boil plainly the required number of potatoes ; 
when they are quite dry and floury, mash them ; add a 
pinch of nutmeg and a cupful of cream or milk ; mix 
perfectly. With a spoon take small pieces of the mashed 
potatoes and put them on a plate in small round forms. 
Melt 3 oz. of butter in the frying-pan ; add to it a little 
fresh bread-crumb ; fry a golden colour, stirring them all 
the time, then pour a little of this butter upon each lump 
of potato. Serve very hot. 

451. Mashed Potatoes 

(Puree de pommes de terre). 

Boil the potatoes — they should be very dry and floury. 
Cut them in halves if they are very large. Reduce them 
to a paste either with a wooden spoon or pass them through 
a sieve ; add a good piece of fresh butter, and by degrees 
some warm milk. Warm up ; but the puree must not 
boil and the stirring must not cease. Add salt and pepper, 
a little nutmeg if the flavour is liked. The purie should 
be of a consistency to allow it to be arranged on the dish 
in a point. 

452. Potato-mould 

( Timbale de pommes de terre). 

Boil the potatoes plainly ; make them into a paste 
either with a wooden spoon or through a sieve ; add 3 
oz. of butter, three dessert-spoonfuls of milk or cream, a 
dessert-spoonful of grated cheese, two whole eggs, salt, 
pepper, a pinch of nutmeg ; mix well with a wooden spoon 
until it is quite smooth. Beat up separately three whites 
of eggs — they must be quite stiff; add them very gently 
to the potatoes. Butter and bread-crumb a timbale-mould ; 
fill it three parts full with the mixture ; put it in a moderate 
If 



178 VEGETABLES. 

oven for thirty minutes. Pass the blade of the knife 
between the mould and the potatoes ; turn out the latter 
on to a round dish and pour all round it a thin cream 
sauce ; finish with a pinch of chervil scalded and chopped. 

453. Croquettes of Potatoes 

{Croquettes de pom vies de terre). 

Boil the potatoes ; drain them and let them dry for 
an instant at the entrance of the oven. Reduce them 
to a paste ; add a piece of fresh butter, two yolks of eggs, 
a dessert-spoonful of cream or milk, salt, pepper, nutmeg ; 
stir briskly to make a smooth paste. Take this paste in 
spoonfuls ; place them on a floured board ; roll them in 
the form of a cork or in round balls. When formed, pass 
through beaten egg, then roll them in bread-crumb fresh 
or baked. Plunge the croquettes into boiling fat ; let 
them take a beautiful golden colour ; take them out ; 
arrange on a dish. The croquettes should be sent to 
table the moment they are done. 

454. Potato Boulettes 

(Boulettes a la ditches se). 

Prepare a mixture of potatoes as above (No. 453). 
Take this paste in spoonfuls ; place them on a floured 
board ; roll them into balls, then flatten them lightly with 
the blade of a knife. Dissolve ]^ lb. of clarified butter 
in the frying-pan ; place in it the potato balls side by side ; 
colour them lightly ; turn them to finish the other side. 

455. Potatoes Maitre d'hotel 

(routines de terre a la maitre d'hotel). 

Cut the potatoes in slices after they are boiled. Butter 
the bottom of a stewpan ; put in the potatoes ; merely 
cover them with milk and water in equal quantities ; add 
a pinch of salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. Cook them at 



VEGETABLES. 1/9 

a good fire ; when the liquid is half reduced add a piece 
of butter the size of an egg ; work it in with a teaspoonful 
of flour and a pinch of chopped parsley ; divide the butter 
into small pieces ; shake the stewpan briskly to mix all 
well together ; let it simmer. Arrange the potatoes in 
a vegetable dish. 

456. Fried Potatoes 

(Po mines de terre f rites). 

Dry the potatoes well after they are peeled and washed ; 
cut them in lengths and all of an equal thickness. Let 
the frying fat get hot, but it must not boil; plunge the 
potatoes in ; cook them at a moderate fire until they are 
tender and slightly coloured. Take them out with a 
slice ; place them on a sieve. Leave the fat on the fire 
until it steams ; at this point plunge the potatoes in again, 
stirring them about with a slice; then as soon as they 
are crisp take them out and drain them again, sprinkle 
them with table salt, and serve immediately. These 
potatoes should be served with grilled steak and chops. 



457. Fried Potato souffle"es 

(Pommes de terre soufflees). 

Choose the long potatoes and of an equal size ; peel 
and trim them at each end ; then cut them in slices length- 
wise and the thickness of a five-shilling piece. Fry them 
as in preceding recipe (No. 456), but the fat must be a 
very moderate heat to commence with. When the potatoes 
are tender drain them on a sieve ; let them get partly 
cold. Replace the fat on the fire ; when it steams plunge 
the potatoes in a second time ; shake them about until 
they have swollen out and become crisp. Drain them 
quickly, sprinkle salt over, and serve. In order to ensure 
success with these potatoes use a frying-basket, and do 
not put in too many at one time. 



I SO VEGETABLES. 

458. Potatoes roasted in the Stewpan 
{Pommes de terre roties). 

The potatoes may be cut in different forms — round, or 
if very large cut in halves or quarters. Naturally the small, 
new, round potatoes are the easiest to prepare in this 
manner. With a vegetable cutter or scoop they can be 
formed from the largest potatoes. Let them boil up once 
in cold water ; the water must only cover them, and at the 
first moment of boiling they must be strained. They may 
be either finished in the stewpan or in the baking-pan, in 
three table-spoonfuls of clarified butter or dripping sprinkled 
with fine salt. In the oven they will take half an hour to 
give them a good colour ; if in the stewpan care must be 
used to shake them frequently and to add more butter if 
necessary to finish, giving them a golden tint. 

Note. — For small new potatoes butter is indispensable. 

459. Stewed Potatoes 
{Pommes de terre a la genevoise). 

Cut the peeled potatoes in small squares. Colour over 
the fire a dessert-spoonful of flour in 2 oz. of butter ; make 
a thin sauce of it by adding a quart of stock or water; put 
in salt, pepper, an onion pierced with cloves, a bouquet of 
herbs, a cupful of white wine, then the potatoes. Let 
them cook gently for thirty to thirty-five minutes, looking 
at them frequently to see they do not stick to the pan. 
When the potatoes are tender and the sauce reduced, finish 
with a piece of fresh butter and chopped parsley. 

460. Potatoes Westphalian fashion 
{Pommes de terre a la ivestphalienne). 

Peel and grate six raw potatoes ; season with salt and 
pepper, one egg ; mix all well together. Melt in a shallow 
stewpan three table - spoonfuls of butter ; drop into it 



VEGETABLES. l8l 

table -spoonfuls of the mixture, leaving sufficient space 
between each spoonful to be able to flatten them with the 
slice. Let them cook on a good fire for two minutes ; 
turn and leave them the same time. They should be a 
golden tint. Arrange in a crown upon a dish with a piece 
of parsley in the centre. 

461. Stuffed Potatoes 
(Pom mes de terre farcies). 

Choose the potatoes of equal size ; peel and trim them 
evenly round — that is to say, no points sticking out ; also 
cut them at the bottom that they may stand upright ; 
empty the insides with a potato-scoop ; scald them (see 
No. 458). Put inside each potato a spoonful of chopped 
meat. Lay them side by side in a buttered dish ; sprinkle 
with salt and baked bread-crumbs ; moisten well with dis- 
solved butter. Start cooking them over the fire, then put 
them in the oven until they are the requisite colour ; baste 
frequently with butter. 

462. Chopped Meat for the Potatoes. 

Any remains of meat will do for this purpose. Chop 
them finely ; colour a chopped onion in 1 oz. of butter ; 
add to it the same of flour ; make the thickening, moisten 
with stock ; salt, pepper, nutmeg. The sauce must not be 
too thick. Put in the chopped meat ; let it simmer ten 
minutes. If the hash is too thin add a little baked bread- 
crumbs. Finish with chopped parsley and chives. 

463. Potatoes a l'Ancienne 
(Pommes de terre a Vcuicienne). 

Peel six potatoes ; cut them in slices. Melt 3 oz. of 
butter in a pan or stewpan ; put in the potatoes with a 
little salt. Cover the stewpan ; if they are in a frying-pan 
put a plate over. Cook them at a gentle fire, tossing or 



1 82 VEGETABLES 

turning them frequently with the slice. When they are 
almost tender throw over them a cupful of cream beaten 
up an instant with an egg and a little grated cheese. Con- 
tinue to let them cook over a brisker fire until they have 
taken a good colour ; move them about constantly with 
the slice. 

464. Potato Ramequins 

(Ramcquin de pommes de terre). 

Cut six or eight raw (peeled) potatoes in slices as finely 
as possible; salt and pepper them lightly; grate ]^ 11). of 
Gruyere or Parmesan cheese. Butter the frying-pan well; 
put in a layer of potatoes, then a layer of cheese. When 
potatoes and cheese are finished pour over 3 oz. of dis- 
solved butter ; cover closely with a round plate ; cook all 
over a slow fire. They must be well watched to prevent 
them sticking to the bottom of the pan ; if they should do 
so, move them by sliding the slice under them. When 
they are tender turn them upside down on to a dish, the 
coloured side to be above. 

465. Japanese Crones 
(Crones du japoii). 

This is a vegetable I have never seen in England ; 
notwithstanding, it must have got there; if so, it is well 
worth eating. Trim the ends of the crones ; wash them in 
several waters ; boil them in boiling salted water. When 
they are tender drain them, afterwards toss them in butter. 
Season with salt, pepper, and chopped chives. 

Note. — For the guidance of those who have never seen 
crones, I may say they have a resemblance to periwinkles 
when they are out of the shell — a trifling one, but the 
nearest I can think of. They may also be served with 
cream sauce or gratinc's with cheese. 



iS; 



SALADS. 



466. Lettuce Salad 
{Salade de romai/ie). 

Wash and drain the lettuce well, then dry it in a soft 
cloth : this is most important, as no salad can be eatable 
if the water be allowed to mix with the dressing. Take 
three table-spoonfuls of the finest oil, one of vinegar, two 
salt-spoonfuls of salt, half of pepper, a little mustard ; stir 
well for two minutes. Put in the lettuces, and move 
them thoroughly about in the dressing. A sliced spring 
onion is a great improvement to the salad when the flavour 
is not objected to. 

467. Endive Salad 

{Salade de chicore'e amere). 

In winter when lettuces are scarce the Batavian endive 
makes a capital salad, and is far superior to the ordinary 
endive. To vary the dressing, press to paste the yolk of 
a hard-boiled egg; dress in the same way as for recipe 
No. 466. Tarragon vinegar or lemon may be substituted 
for ordinary vinegar if preferred. 

468. Salad in Cream Sauce 

{Salade a la crime). 

Prepare the lettuces as above. Mix the following sauce 
in the salad-bowl : four table-spoonfuls of thick cream, one 



1 84 SALADS. 

of vinegar, salt, pepper, a little chopped fresh mint. Mix 
well ; add the lettuces. 

469. Salad of White Cabbage 
(Sa/ade au chon blanc). 

Boil the cabbage ; drain it well ; let it get cold ; prepare 
a dressing with hard egg (see No. 467). 

470. Italian Salad 

(Sa/ade italienne). 

This salad is composed of all kinds of vegetables — cauli- 
flowers, carrots, green peas, French beans, celery root, and 
potatoes. All these vegetables must be very fresh and 
young, and all boiled separately, then cut into small dice 
or slices, except the peas, which are left whole, and the 
cauliflowers, which are to be divided into tiny bouquets. 
Keep on one side a little of each of these vegetables to 
garnish the top of the salad. Take the hearts of two 
cos lettuces ; cut them up very fine ; put them in the 
salad-bowl with the boiled vegetables ; season with salt, 
pepper, and a teaspoonful of vinegar ; add to it 1 gill of 
mayonnaise sauce (No. 80) flavoured with a pinch of 
cayenne and a little raw mustard. Arrange all into a dome 
or point, and make smooth with the point of a knife. Willi 
the potatoes, carrots, and cauliflowers make lines of these 
vegetables, one resting on the other, commencing from the 
bottom of the bowl to the top of the point, the lines to be 
about % inch apart — be careful to vary the shades ; then 
between each of these lines garnish with the peas and 
French beans. 

471. French Bean Salad 

{Salade de haricots verts). 

Boil the beans in boiling salted water; they must be 
very young and fresh, and are best left whole. Mix in the 



SALADS. 185 

salad-bowl a chopped onion, half a teaspoonful of raw 
mustard, a little salt, pepper, chopped parsley, a table- 
spoonful and a half of vinegar, three of oil. Work the 
sauce well and put in the beans. The onion may be 
omitted at pleasure. 

472. Potato Salad 
(Salade de pomme de terre). 

After the potatoes are boiled cut them in slices (thin). 
Prepare in the salad-bowl an onion chopped fine, a pinch 
of salt, pepper, chopped parsley, two table-spoonfuls of 
vinegar and four of olive oil. Mix the potatoes well into 
the sauce. 

473. Salad of Beetroot 
[Betteraves rouges pour salade). 

Boil them in salted water for two hours ; peel them and 
cut them in fine slices ; arrange them in a dish with salt 
and pepper. Cover them with cold vinegar ; add a laurel 
leaf and a few cloves. This salad will keep if placed in a 
covered vessel. 

Note. — Cauliflowers and lettuces make excellent salads. 
They must be boiled, left to get cold, and then dressed 
according to any of the above recipes. These salads have 
the advantage of being more wholesome than the raw ones, 
being easier of digestion, and certainly should cold meat be 
in the bill of fare, they are much more appetising to accom- 
pany it than a cabbage boiled in water and served hot. 
Leeks, if not too strong for the palate, are very good as a 
salad ; they must be well washed and boiled very tender, a 
little raw mustard to be added to the dressing. 



1 86 



PUDDINGS. 



474. Semolina Pudding 

{Ponding a la semoule). 

Boil i quart of milk, a grain of salt, 3^4 oz. of sugar. 
Pour into it slowly 3^ oz. of semolina; stir all the time; 
let it cook gently for seven or eight minutes. Remove the 
saucepan to the side of the stove ; add to it a piece of fresh 
butter the size of half an egg, the grated rind of half a 
lemon, then one whole egg and four yolks, stirring all the 
time. To finish, beat up the four whites of egg to a stiff 
froth and work them in very gently. Butter a plain 
timbale-mould, then on the butter sprinkle baked bread- 
crumbs mixed with powdered sugar; pour in the semolina. 
Place the mould in a stewpan with boiling water reaching 
to the middle of the mould, let it boil gently for forty to 
forty-five minutes. This pudding can be cooked in the 
oven by placing it in a deep dish with boiling water round 
it. Serve with the following sauce. Pass the knife between 
the pudding and mould to turn it out. Boil for an instant 
a tumberful of sherry or madeira, half a cupful of water, 
3^2 oz. of sugar, a small piece of stick cinnamon, a couple 
of cloves, and a little grated lemon-rind ; strain it through 
a fine sieve. 

475. Cold Semolina Pudding 

{Ponding a la semoule froid). 

Boil 1 quart of milk with a piece of thin lemon-rind (the 
rind must be cut so thin that not a morsel of the white 



PUDDINGS. 187 

underskin attaches to it), 3^2 oz. of sugar, a grain of salt, 
2 oz. of fresh butter. Directly it boils sprinkle into it 3^ 
oz. of semolina, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon. 
When it has boiled two minutes, draw it on one side of the 
stove and let it simmer for seven or eight minutes. In the 
interval moisten the inside of a mould with cold water (a 
saiad-bowl will do as well as a mould) ; pour in the 
semolina after having taken out the lemon -rind. This 
pudding is eaten cold, and is best with gooseberry sauce, 
but any fruit syrup can be served with it. 

Gooseberry sauce for the above. — Put in a stewpan 1 lb. of 
ripe red gooseberries ; crush them. Directly they boil up 
pass them through a hair-sieve. Boil the liquid two or 
three minutes with 3^ oz. of white crushed sugar and a 
wine-glassful of water. Let it get cold. 

476. Chocolate Pudding 
{Ponding an chocolat). 

Grate ^ lb. of chocolate. In a separate basin soften 
J^ lb. of butter at the entrance of the oven ; work it well 
with a spoon for five minutes ; add little by little to it one 
whole egg, five yolks, and the grated chocolate, ^ lb. of 
white powdered sugar, and a dessert-spoonful of dried bread 
pounded. Beat up to a froth the five whites of eggs, add 
them delicately and gently to the mixture with two dessert- 
spoonfuls of dried and sifted flour. Pour it into a mould 
that has been buttered and sprinkled with baked bread- 
crumbs. Boil in a stewpan, the water to reach half way up 
the mould ; leave the stewpan open, and boil from thirty-five 
to forty-five minutes. This pudding may also be baked, 
following the same instructions as for No. 474. Serve 
with cream and chocolate sauce. 

Sauce crane au chocolat. — Dissolve a tablet of chocolate 
in two dessert-spoonfuls of hot water j add 2 oz. of 
powdered sugar and three yolks of eggs, working the 
mixture for an instant with the spoon, then add very 
gradually y± pint of hot milk. Stir over the fire until 



1 88 PUDDINGS. 

it commences to thicken and slick to the spoon ; it must 
not boil. Pass it through a hair-sieve. 



477. Orange Pudding 

{Ponding souffle" a r orange). 

Put into an enamel saucepan ]/^ lb. of butter, the same 
of white sugar, a dessert-spoonful of flour, seven yolks of 
eggs, the juice of an orange, the same of lemon, and the 
grated rind of an orange. Stir all over a slow fire as you 
would an ordinary custard, not allowing it to boil, nor must 
there be any lumps. Pour this custafrd into a basin of 
earthenware — it must not be put into any tin vessel; mix 
with the seven whites of eggs beaten to a firm froth, pour 
into a plain earthenware mould, and cook in the oven for 
thirty to thirty-five minutes. The mould must be placed 
in a bain-marie — that is to say, in a deep dish or vessel half 
full of boiling water. This pudding must be served quickly, 
and with a custard flavoured with orange. 



478. Viennese Pudding 

(Pouding viennois). 

Beat to a cream (in a basin) % lb. of butter ; add to it 
i % oz. of bread-crumb previously soaked in rum (a wine- 
glassful), i oz. of almonds or nuts chopped, i oz. of 
chocolate in powder, *^ lb. of castor sugar, a dessert- 
spoonful of flour, i oz. of Malaga raisins stoned, the grated 
rind of a lemon, five yolks of eggs. Mix all well ; and 
lastly add gently the five whites beaten to a froth. Pour 
all into a well-buttered mould and bake in a vain-marie (a 
vessel with boiling water) in the oven for thirty minutes. 
Serve with a Sabayon au rlium (No. 575). 



PUDDINGS. 189 

479. Nut Pudding 

(Ponding aux noisettes). 

Colour lightly in the oven 1 ^ oz. Barcelona nuts ; 
pound them finely with a little white of egg; pass them 
through a tammy-cloth or hair-sieve ; add them to the pre- 
paration for pudding a la vanille (No. 481). Boil in a 
bain-marie for forty minutes — that is, to put the mould 
in a saucepan of bo'ling water ; the water must only reach 
half-way up the mould. 

480. Lemon Pudding 

{Ponding an citron). 

Tut 3 oz. of flour into a stewpan, with 1 yi oz. of fresh 
butter, a grain of salt, 1 y 2 oz. of powdered sugar, and the 
chopped rind of half a lemon ; pour into it gradually a cup- 
ful of warm milk ; mix all well with a wooden spoon to 
make a smooth paste. Stir all over the fire until it thickens 
and commences to detach itself from the stewpan ; at this 
point pour the mixture into a basin, add 1 1 / 2 oz. more of 
sugar, the same of dissolved butter, then six yolks of eggs 
and the juice of half a lemon. The stirring must never 
cease while the ingredients are being added. When all is 
perfectly mixed beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth and add it — half at one time — to the mixture. The 
whites must never be beaten in once they are whisked to a 
snow, but simply and delicately blended to the preparation. 
Pour all into a mould that has been buttered and dusted 
with flour. Boil in a bain-marie (the mould placed in a 
saucepan with boiling water reaching to the middle of the 
mould — halfway up); leave the saucepan uncovered; boil 
from thirty-five to forty-five minutes. This pudding may 
also be baked by putting the mould in a vessel of boiling 
water. To find if the pudding is properly cooked, pierce it 
with a clean skewer : if it comes out without anything 



19O PUDDINGS. 

sticking to it, it is done. Always pass the knife between 
the pudding and the mould before turning it out. 

481. Vanilla Pudding 
{Ponding a la vanille). 

Pn pare the mixture as above (No. 480), simply sub- 
stituting vanilla for lemon. Boil for forty minutes, and 
serve with vanilla custard round it. For boiling, observe 
the same directions as are given for the preceding puddings. 

482. Tapioca Pudding 
{Ponding an tapioca). 

Boil 1 y 2 pint of milk with 3 oz. of sugar and a piece of 
butter the size of an egg. Directly it boils drop in gradually 
3 oz. of tapioca ; stir continually for five minutes to avoid it 
forming into lumps ; place the stewpan on one side ; let it 
simmer for fifteen minutes. Pour the mixture into a basin ; 
add to it a handful of stoned raisins, grated rind of a lemon, 
1 l /i oz. of candied orange and lemon peel, one whole egg, 
three yolks ; mix all perfectly. Beat the three whites to a 
stiff froth ; add them gently to the other mixture. Pour all 
into a mould buttered and sprinkled with powdered sugar; 
cook in a bain-marie for forty to forty-five minutes in the 
same manner as directed for preceding puddings. Serve 
with any fruit syrups or sweet sauce. 

483. Baked Almond Pudding 

{Ponding anx amandes gri/Ia's). 

Tccl Jfc£ lb. of almonds; place them on a baking tin; 
put them in the oven until they have taken a brownish tint. 
Boil ){ lb. of sugar with half a cupful of water ; when the 
sugar commences to turn to caramel pour it over the 
almonds ; leave them to cool ; then reduce the whole to a 
fine paste in a mortar. Keep a quarter of this paste upon 
a separate plate for the sauce of the pudding. Work into a 



PUDDINGS. IQI 

froth for ten minutes %' lb. of butter, then add to it, one 
after the other, six yolks, then the pounded almonds, two 
dessert-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, the same of baked 
bread-crumbs moistened with a dessert-spoonful of brandy. 
Beat up the six whites of egg to a firm froth ; add them 
gently to the rest. Pour all into a buttered mould which 
has been sprinkled with sugar. Boil or bake the pudding 
in the same manner as for semolina pudding. Turn the 
pudding on to a plate ; pour round it a little almond 
cream, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. 

Almond cream for the above. — Prepare a good custard ; 
add to it the reserved almond paste. 

484. Cherry Pudding 
(Poudhig aux cerises dans u?i plat). 

Stone 1 lb. of black cherries ; put them in a deep dish ; 
mix them with three crushed rusks and a pinch of powdered 
cinnamon. Boil a tumberful and a half of milk with 3 oz. 
of sugar ; mix with it four well-beaten eggs. Pour this 
custard over the cherries. Put the dish in the oven for 
thirty minutes ; an instant before taking it from the- oven 
sprinkle the top with fine powden-d sugar so that it becomes 
glazed. 



192 



SOUFFLES. 



The success of a souffle" depends upon the baking. The 
oven should be prepared to the required heat before put- 
ting it in, and the heat gradually increased as the souffli 
rises. If it commences to take colour too quickly, a piece 
of white paper should be placed over the top. A souffli 
must be sent direct from the oven to the table. 

485. Semolina Souffle" 

(Souffle a la semoule). 

Boil i pint of milk with y^ lb. of vanilla sugar, a grain 
of salt ; directly it boils drop in gradually i y 2 oz. of fine 
semolina, stirring continually with a wooden spoon ; let it 
cook for eight or ten minutes ; add r y 2 oz. of fresh butter. 
Pour the mixture into a basin ; mix it with five yolks of 
eggs. Beat up the five whites to a firm froth ; add them 
gently to the semolina. Pour all into a mould which has 
been buttered ; bake for twenty-five minutes in the oven. 
Serve sprinkled with powdered sugar. 

486. Apple Souffle" 
(Souffle 1 aux potnme a la russe). 

Peel three rennet apples ; cut them in pieces ; take 
away the pips ; put them into a stewpan with a pinch of 
cinnamon and i j4 oz. of sugar, a wine-glnssful of water, and 
a piece of butter the size of a nut. Let them cook until 



SOUFFLES. 193 

they commence to break, then crush them with a wooden 
spoon until they are reduced to a thick mass. Beat six 
whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them in lightly to the 
warm apples. Pour all into a deep buttered dish ; smooth 
over the top, making it take the form of a dome in the 
centre ; sprinkle over with sugar, and put in a moderate 
oven for twenty-five minutes. 

The above can be made with any kind of fruit which 
admits of being stewed to a consistent substance. 

487. Ground-rice Souffle" 

(Souffle a la fleur de riz). 

Boil 1 pint of milk with 3 oz. of sugar — a part of the 
sugar should be flavoured with vanilla — a grain of salt. 
Directly it boils pour in two dessert-spoonfuls of ground 
rice mixed smoothly with a wine-glassful of cold milk. Stir 
briskly with a spoon ; the paste must be without a lump. 
Cook for ten minutes, then add 1 y 2 oz. of butter and two 
yolks of eggs. Let the mixture get half cold ; add to it 
three yolks of eggs, one by one, then beat six whites to a 
firm snow ; mix them with the other very gently, half of the 
snow at a time. Put all into a deep buttered dish, smooth 
the top, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. 
Serve up directly, sprinkled with powdered suyar. 

488. Chocolate Souffle 

(Souffle au chocolaf). 

Dissolve in a stewpan 6 oz. (four tablets) of grated 
chocolate with three dessert-spoonfuls of warm water ; work 
it about with a wooden spoon until it is quite smooth, 
then remove the stewpan from the fire. Mix with the 
chocolate l /^ lb. of powdered sugar — part of it to be 
flavoured with vanilla — six yolks of eggs (one at a time). 
Beat up the six whites to a stiff snow ; add half of it 
very gently and delicately to the chocolate ; when it is all 
mixed in, add the other half. Pour all into a deep 

N 



194 SOUFFLES. 

buttered dish, smooth the top over with a knife, and hake 
in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Sprinkle with 
powdered sugar before sending to table. If the souffle 
takes colour before it is baked, cover with a buttered 
paper. 

489. Souffle Mousseline 

(Soitffli mousseline). 

Beat up in a stewpan with a wooden spoon six 
yolks of eggs, 2 oz. of powdered sugar, 2 oz. of butter 
partly dissolved, the juice and grated rind of a lemon. 
Place the stewpan in a dish or vessel with boiling water ; 
stir all over the fire as if you were making a hollandaise 
sauce, and until it commences to thicken ; at this point 
remove the stewpan from the fire, but continue to stir the 
mixture for three minutes longer. Beat up the six whites 
of eggs to a firm snow ; mix them delicately to the yolks ; 
pour the whole into a deep dish or mould ; smooth it over 
into a point in the middle. Place this dish in a stew- 
pan which can be tightly closed; put in boiling water 
to reach to the middle of the dish or mould ; place the 
stewpan over a good fire ; directly it boils up remove it to 
the side to allow the water to merely simmer. The stew- 
pan should be covered in a manner that the steam cannot 
escape. Twenty to twenty-five minutes will cook the 
souffle. It must be served up immediately after having 
sprinkled over it some powdered macaroons. This souffle" 
may also be baked. 

490. Vanilla Souffld 

{Souffle" a la va utile). 

Put in a stewpan 3 oz. of flour which has been dried 
and passed through a sieve, a teaspoonful of potato flour, 
two yolks of eggs, 2 oz. of sugar, 1 oz. of warmed butter, 
a small piece of vanilla (about 2 inches), a grain of salt. 
Mix all with a cupful of milk ; stir over a gentle fire until 
it thickens without lumps, and until it is the consistency 



SOUFFLES. 195 

of a thick smooth sauce. Take it off the fire and acid to it 
1 oz. of butter and five yolks of eggs, then add as directed 
in previous recipes the five whites of eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Butter a mould, either in metal or earthenware ; 
fill it three parts full ; place it on a baking-tin ; bake in 
a moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes, increasing 
the heat after the first ten minutes. 

491. Almond Souffle" 

(Souffle praline'). 

Take % lb. of almonds, three of them to be bitter ; 
grill them lightly in the oven. Boil 1 oz. of sugar 
to caramel ; mix it with the almonds ; spread all upon 
a plate which has been lightly oiled ; let them cool, then 
pound them very fine. Work 3 oz. of sugar which is 
slightly flavoured with vanilla with five yolks of eggs, the 
same as you would for sponge-cake. When the mixture 
is quite white and frothy add delicately to it the pounded 
almonds and the five whites beaten to a stiff snow. Pour 
all into a deep buttered dish or souffle-vaovXA ; bake for 
fifteen to twenty minutes in a moderate oven at first, 
the heat to be gradually increased. The almonds must 
not be peeled ; Barcelona nuts may be substituted for 
the almonds. 

492. Chocolate Souffle" 

(Souffle an chocolat). 

Make a preparation the same as for vanilla souffle (No. 
490), but before adding the eggs add to the mixture two 
tablets of chocolate dissolved in a little water. This souffle 
can be cooked the same as any of the above or in a case of 
buttered paper. 

493. Omelet Souffle" 

(Omelette souffle'e). 

Put in a basin four yolks of eggs, 4^ oz. of sugar, the 
grated rind of a small lemon, a grain of salt ; stir for ten 



196 SOUFFLfiS. 

minutes with a wooden spoon, 1 oz. of butter to be added 
to the mixture. Beat six whites of eggs very firm ; add 
first the half to the other mixture, when gently mixed 
in add the other half. Butter a deep dish ; pour in the 
omelet, bringing it to a point in the centre; sprinkle it 
with sugar, and hake in a gentle oven from twelve to fifteen 
minutes. This omelet must be sent to table direct from 
the oven. 

494. Omelette Souffle" au Rhum 

(Omelette soiifflc'e an rhum). 

Put in a small stewpan three table-spoonfuls of vanilla 
sugar and six yolks of eggs; work them an instant, then 
add two table-spoonfuls of rum and 3 oz. of butter divided 
into small pieces. Put the stewpan into a large vessel 
in which hot water has been poured; place it on a gentle 
fire. Stir well with a wooden spoon until it comm 
to thicken without lumps. Remove the stewpan to the 
side of the stove ; beat up the six whites to a snow ; 
add them, half at a time, to the rest of the mixture. 
Butter a deep dish ; pour in the omelet ; smooth it over 
with the point of the knife ; place the dish in another 
vessel containing boiling water, then into a gentle oven 
from twenty five to thirty minutes. Before serving sprinkle 
with sifted sugar. 

495. Jam Omelet 

(Oiiic/e/te aux confitures) 

For an omelet of six eggs melt \]/ z oz. of clarified 
butter in an omelet-pan. Break the eggs ; add a grain 
of salt, a pinch of sugar, a dessert-spoonful of milk ; beat 
up an instant with a fork ; pour them into the warm butter ; 
move them about quickly with a wooden spoon or fork, 
then pile them up to one side of the pan ; let them set. 
Place in the middle of the omelet two dessert-spoonfuls of 
jam ; fold the two edges over to the centre ; turn it out 
upside down on to a round dish ; sprinkle with sugar. 



SOUFFLfiS 197 

496. Another way to make an Omelet. 

Break the eggs as above; warm the butter in the pan ; 
pour in the eggs in a manner to entirely cover the bottom 
of the pan ; let it take colour at a slow fire. Turn the 
omelet the other side ; let it colour the same manner ; 
spread a layer of jam over it, roll it up, and sprinkle with 
sugar. 

497. Chocolate Omelet 

{Omelette au chocolat). 

Dissolve in a stewpan one tablet of chocolate in a little 
water ; leave it to cool ; add to it four yolks of eggs and 
a dessert-spoonful of thick cream. Beat up the four whites 
of eggs to a stiff froth and mix it with the chocolate. Melt 
in rather a large frying-pan 1 ]/> oz. of butter ; when it is 
hot pour in the omelet, stirring it with a spoon ; let it set 
over a slow fire and take colour on one side only. When 
ready to serve roll it up, and send to table with a chocolate 
sauce round it. 

498. Eggs in Snow 
(CEufs a la neige). 

Boil \ l /> pint of milk in rather a large stewpan ; sweeten 
with 3 oz. of sugar. Take it from the fire ; put in either 
a small piece of lemon -rind or a piece of stick vanilla. 
Beat up in a basin the whites of five eggs ; when they are 
perfectly stiff and firm take a table-spoonful at a time 
and with a knife smooth it into a form raised in the middle, 
and with the use of another spoon let it fall into the boiling 
milk. Place in as many as the pan will hold ; draw it to 
the side of the fire, as at this point the milk must only 
simmer. With a small slice turn the eggs over, and when 
they are sufficiently firm place them on a cloth. Beat up 
the yolks of the five eggs with half a teaspoonful of potato 
flour ; add the hot milk to it ; stir it over a gentle fire 
until it commences to thicken, but it must not boil. Dial) 



198 SOUFFLfiS. 

the white eggs, raised one on the other ; cover them with 
the custard. 

Note. — This sweet can be eaten hot or cold, and may be 
varied by putting a little coffee essence in the custard, a 
little dissolved chocolate, or a small quantity of liqueur. 

499. Snow Eggs en Surprise 

(CEnfs a la neige en surprise). 

Beat up to a fine snow the whites of five eggs ; mix to 
them very gently 3 oz. of finest white sugar, — it must be 
put through a fine sieve and part of it flavoured with 
vanilla. Arrange the eggs on a round dish in the form of a 
rock ; grate very finely a tablet of chocolate ; mix it with a 
table-spoonful of fine sugar ; sprinkle this over the eggs 
until the white is completely covered. Place the dish for 
ten minutes in a very gentle oven, so that the surface of 
the eggs may become firm. Serve with a custard flavoured 
with vanilla or chocolate. 

500. Coffee Custard 
(Crewe renversie an cafe). 

Put four tcaspoonfuls of freshly roasted and ground 
coffee in a stewpan with a wine-glass of water ; boil up for 
half a minute; strain it. Boil l 1 /^ pint of milk with 4 oz. 
of sugar ; break into a basin four whole eggs and five yolks 
(or seven whole eggs) ; beat them an instant with the 
whisk ; add to them both the boiling milk and the essence 
of coffee ; pour all into a well-buttered mould. Keep back 
a glassful of the custard. Place the mould in a stewpan 
with boiling water to reach half the height of the mould ; 
cover the stewpan, and let it cook gently (the water must 
only simmer) from forty to forty five minutes and until it 
sets. In the meanwhile stir the custard that has been kept 
back over a gentle fire ; beat it with a whisk until it thickens, 
but it must not boil. Turn the cream out of the mould on 
to a dish (upside down) ; cover it with the custard. 



SOUFFLfiS. 199 

Note. — This cream may be baked by placing the mould 
in a dish of boiling water and putting it in the oven. To 
ensure success to this sweet the milk must be pure and 
fresh and the eggs of the best. 

501. Custard in Caramel 
{Crime renverse'e au caramel). 

Put into a stewpan 6 oz. of loaf-sugar with a cupful of 
water (a tea-cup) ; boil quickly until the sugar commences 
to take colour — that is to say, caramel (see No. 536) ; pour 
a little of this sugar into a mould in a manner to form a 
thin layer at the bottom. Tour directly into the stewpan 
which has the remainder of the caramel 1 ]/ 2 pint of milk ; 
boil it until the caramel is melted. Break four whole eggs 
and four yolks into a basin (or six whole) ; beat them an 
instant ; mix them well with the milk which has been 
removed from the fire ; pour this custard into the prepared 
mould, keeping back a glassful of it. Cook the custard 
according to the directions given for No. 490. Stir the 
reserved custard over the fire until it commences to thicken ; 
take it off and let it cool ; serve it round the pudding. 

502. Tea Custards 
( Crime au thi en petits pots). 

Make ^ pint of tea, not too strong ; strain it after 
leaving it three minutes, then mix with it a tumblerful of 
thick raw cream. Beat up for two minutes in a basin five 
yolks of eggs with 3 oz. of powdered sugar ; pour the liquid 
of tea and cream to it, and pass all through a hair-sieve. 
Fill with this mixture some little china pots or small black 
coffee-cups ; place them in a stewpan sufficiently large to 
hold them ; put in boiling water, which must only reach 
half way up the cups ; cover the stewpan, and let them 
simmer gently until the cream is set. They may be baked 
in the oven in the stewpan or any vessel with water merely. 
Cover the pots with white paper. 



200 SOUFFLES. 

This same cream may be made with coffee, chocolate, or 
vanilla. 

503. Strawberry Custards 

{Crane aux /raises en petit s pots'). 

Pass some strawberries through a hair-sieve, sufficient to 
make a teacupful of pnre'e. Place this/«r/<? in a bowl with 
five yolks of eggs ; work all well with a wooden spoon for 
five minutes ; add to it three teacupfuls of raw cream or 
milk. Fill some small pots or cups with this mixture, and 
cook the same as for No. 501. 

504. Baked Custard 

{Flan glace" an sucre dans tin plat). 

Beat up in a basin five whole eggs with 4 oz. of powdered 
sugar, a grain or two of salt, three teaspoonfuls of orange- 
flower water. Have ready boiled 1% pint of milk ; pour it 
over the eggs ; mix well. Pour this custard into a deep dish 
well buttered; place the dish in another utensil which has a 
little boiling water in it. Bake for twenty or twenty-five 
minutes. Before serving sprinkle it with sugar, and hold 
over it a shovel or salamander made red hot. 

Note. — By placing the moulds or dishes in a second 
vessel containing boiling water, either for baking or boiling, 
all risk of the custards curdling is avoided. 



FRITTERS 
(BEIGNETS). 



505. Cream Fritters 

(Beignets de crime). 

Put into a stewpan three table-spoonfuls of flour with five 
yolks of eggs ; mix these by degrees with i pint ol cream or 
boiling milk ; add 6 oz. of vanilla sugar, a grain ot salt, two 
teaspoonfuls of orange-flower water. Stir this mixture over 
a gentle fire with a wooden spoon until it commences to 
thicken ; at this point add to it the white of an egg beaten to 
a snow. Spread this paste on a greased baking-tin to about 
U inch in thickness. Bake in the oven until it becomes 
fairly firm and slightly coloured ; take it out and let it cool 
on the tin, then divide it in pieces all one size, either in 
the form of lozenges, squares, or with a round small cake- 
cutter. Have some frying fat ready (see No. 106); when 
it commences to steam dip the fritters into frying batter 
(see below) and fry them a beautiful golden colour ; drain 
them on a sieve as they are done, and roll them in fine 
vanilla sugar. Serve very hot. 

506. Frying Batter for the above. 

Put in a bowl 5 oz. of flour; mix it smoothly with a 
tumblerful of cold water ; make a smooth paste free from 



202 FRITTERS. 

Lumps; add a pinch of sale and a table-spoonful of olive 
oil. Beat up three or four whites of eggs to a firm froth; 
mix them, half at a time, to the batter very gently. A 
little rum or liqueur may be added if desired, and the oil 
may be replaced by dissolved butter if preferred. 

Note. — Batter loses nothing by being made some hours 
before it is needed for use, only the whites of the eggs 
must be added at the last moment. 

507. Orange Fritters 
(Beignets d' oranges). 

Take off the peel and under white skin from five good 
oranges ; divide them in quarters, but in a natural way so 
that each quarter retains its juice. Put them in a dish with 
a little fine sugar sprinkled over them ; leave them for 
fifteen minutes ; drain. Steep each piece of orange into 
the frying batter (No. 506), then into the boiling fat; 
leave them until they have taken a beautiful colour ; drain 
them on a sieve, then on a cloth ; roll them in fine sugar 
flavoured with orange. Serve very hot. 

Orange sugar. — Rub the thin rinds of the oranges against 
a large piece of loaf-sugar, pound the latter very fine, and 
puss it through a sieve. 

508. Apple Fritters 

(Beignets de poinmes). 

Choose good rennet apples ; peel them ; cut them in 
slices the thickness of }{ inch ; take the middle out with a 
cutter, taking care not to spoil the slice or round. Steep 
them for twenty minutes in a bowl witli a cupful of rum or 
liqueur and a little powdered sugar; drain. Steep each 
slice in the frying batter (No. 506), then into the hot 
fat : fry them both sides a golden tint. Drain, and roll 
them in powdered sugar mixed with a pinch of powdered 
cinnamon. Serve very hot. 



FRITTERS. 203 

509. Pear Fritters 

(B eigne ts de poire s). 

Feel and cut in quarters some good pears — the pieces 
should be about ^ inch thick ; take out the pips ; soak 
them for twenty minutes in a little liqueur or rum and some 
powdered sugar. Finish the same as for apple fritters (No. 
5°3). 

510. Peach Fritters 

{B eigne ts de peches). 

Take off the skin ; cut them in halves ; take out the 
stone ; soak and fry them exactly the same as for the above 
(No. 508). 

511. Cherry Fritters 

(Beignets de cerises). 

Take out the stones from a hundred cherries ; put five 
at a time on small wooden skewers ; steep them in frying 
batter (No. 506) flavoured with a little kirsch. Fry them a 
good colour ; drain on a cloth, and roll them in finely pow- 
dered sugar. Take out the skewers before sending them to 
table. 

512. Fritters Souffles 

(Beignets souffles). 

Proportions : three teacupfuls of water, 3 oz. of butter, 
1 ]^ oz. of sifted sugar, a pinch of salt, the rind of a lemon 
grated, y 2 lb. flour, four whole eggs. Boil together in a 
stewpan the water, butter, sugar, and salt. When the 
liquid is boiling remove the stewpan to the side of the fire ; 
add the flour which has been previously passed through a 
sieve ; mix all briskly with a wooden spoon until it becomes 
a perfectly smooth paste. Stir this paste for an instant 
over a gentle fire, then remove the stewpan to one side of 
the stove to allow the mixture to cool slightly ; then add 
the lemon-peel and one whole egg. Work the paste well 



204 FRITTERS. 

until the egg is completely mixed in, then one by one the 
remaining three eggs, stirring all the time ; if then the 
paste is too stiff, add one more egg. Take a table-spoonful 
of this paste and let it drop into the hot frying fat, which 
must not be too hot. Put in six at a time, or more if the 
pan is sufficiently large. Place it over a gentle fire; fry the 
fritters, turning them continually with the slice. The 
fritter will gradually swell and increase three times in size, 
then the fire should be made a little more active in order 
to give them a beautiful colour. Drain, and either sprinkle 
or roll them in fine sugar. Arrange in a pyramid on a dish. 

513. Semolina Fritters 

{Beignets a la semoule). 

Boil in a stewpan i pint of milk with 3 oz. of sugar; 
directly it boils add 6 oz. of semolina ; stir until it thickens; 
let it cook seven or eight minutes. Remove the stewpan 
from the fire ; put in a piece of butter the size of an egg, 
three yolks of eggs, one whole egg, the chopped rind of a 
lemon or orange, a handful of currants, and a liqueur-glass 
of kirsch. Pour this paste on to a cake-tin \shich has been 
moistened with water ; spread the paste to the thickness 
of Yz inch. When it is cold divide it into squares or in 
rounds with a paste-cutter ; pass these through two beaten 
eggs, then in bread-crumbs, and plunge them into boiling 
fat until they take a good colour. 

514. Almond Croquettes 

■nctics aux amatides). 

Mix 2 oz. of flour in 1 pint of milk ; add to it 3 oz. of 
sugar, four yolks of eggs, 4 oz. of ground almonds, a grain 
of salt, and 2 oz. of butter divided in small pieces. Stir 
over the fire until it becomes a smooth paste which com- 
mences to cook. Spread it upon a dish to let it cool. 
Take a table-spoonful of this paste, roll it upon a floured 



FRITTERS. 205 

board into the shape of a large cork or of a small pear; 
pass them through egg and bread-crumbs and fry them a 
beautiful colour, then roll them in powdered sugar. 

515. Rice Croquettes 
(Croquettes an riz). 

Boil for ten minutes 3 oz. of rice ; drain it ; put it 
back in the stewpan with 1 pint of milk, a pinch of salt ; 
cook gently for thirty minutes. Place the stewpan upon 
the corner of the stove ; add to the rice 3 oz. of sugar, a 
piece of fresh butter, three yolks of eggs, the grated rind of 
a lemon ; work all for an instant. Spread the rice upon a 
dish ; let it cool ; take a table-spoonful of it ; place it on a 
board sprinkled with baked bread-crumbs ; roll them in the 
form of a cork or a pear ; pass them through egg and bread- 
crumbs. Fry them a beautiful colour ; roll them in sugar. 
If the croquettes are in the form of a pear, pierce them at 
one end with a small piece of wood or of macaroni to form 
the stalk. 

516. Pancakes 
(Crepes). 

Put 1 Yz oz. of flour in a bowl, a pinch of salt ; break 
into it two whole eggs ; work all together to make a smooth 
paste. At this point add a cupful of thick raw cream ; 
pass all through a sieve. Put a teaspoonful of clarified 
butter into a small warmed frying - pan ; pour into it 
sufficient of this paste to cover the bottom with a thin 
layer; let it set over a gentle fire; if it forms into 
bubbles merely prick them with a fork ; shake the pan to 
prevent it sticking to it ; turn the pancake with the 
slice ; let it take a golden tint both sides, then slide it 
on to a dish ; sprinkle it directly with powdered sugar. 
Continue in the same manner until all the batter is finished. 
Place, when cooked, the pancakes one on the top of the 
other. If desired, a change can be made by spreading a 
thin layer of apricot jam on each pancake. 



206 FRITTERS. 

517. Bread Fritters 
{Croutes dories). 

Cut off a tin loaf sixteen slices l / 2 inch thick ; place them 
in a dish and soak them in a little milk or cream. Have 
three whole eggs beaten up in a plate ; warm three dessert- 
spoonfuls of clarified butter in a frying-pan ; soak each slice 
of bread in the egg ; put them into the pan ; fry them a 
golden colour both sides, then pass them through finely 
sifted sugar mixed with a little powdered cinnamon. Keep 
them hot until all are fried. 

518. Bread Fritters with Cherries 
(Croutes aux cerises). 

Take out the stones from 2 lb. of black cherries ; stew 
them for a few minutes with 3 oz. of sugar, a little cinna- 
mon, and a wine glassful of water. Have ready some slices 
of bread prepared according to recipe No. 517; powder 
them with fine sugar, arrange them in the form of a crown 
on a round dish, and pour the cherries in the centre. 

519. Bread Fritters with Strawberries 
( Croft te aux f raises). 

Cut some slices about j£ inch thick from a long rusk 
loaf; fry them a delicate golden colour in butter. Take 
1 lb. of strawberries — the small wood ones are the best for 
the purpose; put them in a basin with 3 oz. of white 
powdered sugar flavoured with vanilla. Be careful in mix- 
ing in the sugar not to crush the fruit. Upon each piece 
of bread arrange some of the strawberries ; place on a 
round dish. 

Note. — The rusk loaves can be obtained from any good 
baker by ordering them a day in advance, and they are 
better for the above purpose if they are a day old. On the 
Continent small sweet rolls arc used instead of rusk bread : 



FRITTERS. 207 

they are merely cut in halves, fried, and the strawberries 
placed on in the form of a dome. Plain stale buns would 
probably do as well. These sweets are most simple, easily 
prepared, and would make a welcome variety to the limited 
7iienu of the ordinary English schoolroom dinner. 

520. Bread Fritters with Pine-apple 

{Croutes a V ananas). 

Take some preserved pine-apple ; cut into as many 
slices as there are pieces of bread or roll ; put the pieces of 
the pine-apple into a stewpan with 3 oz. of sugar, a table- 
spoonful of apricot jam, and a wine-glassful of sherry or 
marsala ; boil it up. Warm the slices' of pine-apple in this 
syrup. Prepare some slices of bread according to the 
directions given above (Nos. 518, 519). Arrange the 
bread in the form of a crown in a round dish ; between 
each slice of bread put a slice of pine-apple; pour the 
syrup over. 



208 



SWEET DISHES. 



On the Continent fruit-tarts arc always made open : they 
are perhaps no better than the English tarts, but the 
recipes may be acceptable if only as a matter of novelty. 
Round tins with fluted edges can easily be procured for 
the baking, but they must be removed on to china, round, 
flat dishes before sending to table. The tins must be well 
buttered before using. 

521. Apple Tart 

( Gateau aux pommes). 

Prepare a short crust (see No. 579) ; line the bottom of 
the baking-tin with it, pressing it carefully into the fluted 
edges. Cut some rennet apples into moderate pieces, all 
of equal size ; arrange them on the paste, one piece rest- 
ing half over the other; sprinkle well with powdered sugar 
and a little powdered cinnamon ; bake in hot oven from 
thirty to forty minutes. Before sending to table sprinkle 
again with sugar. 

522. Cherry Tart 

{Gateau aux ccri$cs\ 

Proceed exactly the same as for No. 521. The cherries 
must be stoned. 



SWEET DISHES. 209 

523. Apricot Tart 

{Gateau ai/x abricots). 

Prepare the paste the same as above (No. 521); cut 
the apricots in halves ; stone them ; place them on the 
paste ; arrange them as much as possible to form a kind of 
crown in the middle j sprinkle well with fine white sugar 
and a little cinnamon. Bake for thirty or forty minutes. 
Powder with sugar before sending to table. 

Note. — These tarts can be made with plums (all stoned), 
peaches, gooseberries, pears, &c. 

524. Strawberry Tart Meringue 
{Gateau aux /raises meringue). 

For this tart, the paste must be baked without the fruit. 
Line the tin with a short crust (No. 579) ; place a buttered 
paper over the paste; put it in a warm oven. If the paste 
rises in bubbles merely press it down with the hand. When 
the crust is baked take off the paper and cover it with straw- 
berries powdered with sugar and a little cinnamon. Beat 
to a firm snow the whites of three eggs ; mix them deli- 
cately with 4 oz. of vanilla sugar ; spread this over the tart, 
completely hiding the strawberries by smoothing it with a 
knife ; sprinkle on the top of all 1 oz. of very fine sugar. 
Put it back in a gentle oven until the meringue is slightly 
coloured. When it is pretty cold slide it upon a round 
dish. 

Note. — I venture to suggest that cream would be an 
improvement upon the eggs. 

525. Buttered Apples 

(Pommes au beurre). 

Peel eight rennet apples; cut them in halves; take out 
the cores ; arrange them in a well-buttered tin or dish ; 
sprinkle them with 3 oz. of sugar, a little powdered cinna- 
o 



2IO SWEET DISHES. 

m©n ; put a small piece of butter on each apple. Bake in 
a good oven until the apples arc soft and lightly coloured. 

526. Apple Charlotte 

(Charlotte de pommes a la bourgeoise). 

Cut some slices of bread from a tin loaf; trim them 
about 4 inches in length and 2 in breadth ; fry them a 
beautiful golden colour in clarified butter. Have ready 
some apples (No. 525); arrange them one over the other 
in the middle of a dish, and round them the slices of bread 
in the form of a crown. Powder the whole with while 
sugar, and serve, if preferred, with any fruit sauce, or 
simply as they arc. 

527. Apples ci la Comtesse 

(Pommes a la comtesse). 

Choose eight rennet apples of equal size ; peel them ; 
scoop them rather deeply but not through to the opposite 
side. Pound finely in a mortar 2 oz. of sweet almonds 
(peeled), the juice of a lemon ; add 3 oz. of powdered 
sugar, one whole egg, one dessert-spoonful of cream. Fill 
the hollow of the apples with this mixture, covering the 
opening where the apple has been scooped out ; arrange 
them in a dish that has been thickly buttered; sprinkle 
with sugar, a table-spoonful of water. Bake from twenty- 
five to thirty minutes. Send to table in the dish in which 
they have been baked. 

528. Apple Meringue 

(Pommes tneringuits). 

Prepare some buttered apples (No. 525); arrange them 
in a pyramid in the middle of a dish. Beat to a snow the 
whites of four eggs; add to them very delicately 4^ oz. 
of powdered sugar ; cover the apples completely with this 
snow, sprinkle the surface first with chopped almonds, then 



SWEET DISHES. 211 

with sugar. Tut in the oven (a gentle one); leave it until 
the meringue is lightly coloured. 

529. Apples and Macaroons 

(Pommes madame). 

Take six good cooking-apples ; peel and cut them in 
thin slices ; remove the cores ; place them in layers in a 
well-buttered dish ; sprinkle between each layer crushed 
macaroons and powdered sugar ; pour over all some dis- 
solved butter ; put them in a hot oven. Beat up two whole 
eggs in a cupful of cream, add a pinch of sugar; when 
the apples are tender pour the cream over them, and leave 
them in the oven until they have become a golden colour. 

530. Marmalade of Apples 

(Marmelade de pommes). 

Cut in small blocks (not sliced) twelve peeled rennets ; 
remove the cores. Put them in an enamelled stewpan 
with a wine-glassful of claret or water, ^ lb. of powdered 
sugar, and seasoned with lemon or cinnamon. Let them 
stew gently until reduced to a pulp ; at this point beat 
them briskly with a wooden spoon. Pour them into a 
compote-dish, powder them with sugar, and glaze them 
with a salamander made red hot. 

531. Apples with Cream 
{Poultries a la Cnanti/fy). 

Prepare a marmalade of apples according to the above 
recipe, but it must be rather thick and stiff. Put a tumbler- 
ful and a half of cream in a salad-bowl ; whip it to a stiff 
froth, adding to it two dessert-spoonfuls of vanilla sugar. 
Cover the apples completely with half of the cream ; with 
the other half decorate the preparation by pressing the cream 
through a bag in ornamental devices. 

Note. — The bag with arrangement necessary for orna- 



212 SWEET DISHES. 

meriting pastry and fruit with cream or icing sugar ran be 
procured at a good ironmonger's, or at Mrs Marshall's 
School of Cookery in Mortimer Street, London, W. : it is 
absolutely indispensable in a good kitchen. 

532. An excellent way to stew Apples. 

Teel and cut them in small pieces (No. 530) ; put them in 
a deep basin in layers, and between each layer sprinkle best 
brown sugar, a clove, ground cinnamon, a squeeze of lemon- 
juice ; press them very tightly, and place an old saucer on 
the top; put no water, merely moisten with a little claret. 
Bake in a gentle oven — they will take some time ; stir 
them up occasionally, but they must not be reduced to a 
puree. If properly baked they should turn out as if they 
were preserved, and be a beautiful red colour. 

533. Apple Charlotte 

(Charlotte de pommes). 

An excellent apple charlotte can be made by preparing 
the apples according to the above recipe, and between each 
layer add in addition to the ingredients above mentioned 
bread-crumbs finely grated. If a very rich charlotte is 
d, substitute macaroons (crushed). When the basin 
(which should be well buttered) is full, place three or four 
small pieces of butter on the top, a saucer over all, and 
bake in a very gentle oven : it should take quite three 
hours. 

Note. — The basin used for the stewed apples or charlotte 
should be a fair size, as the apples become much reduced, 
therefore a good number must be cut up. The manner in 
which the apples are cut is most important, and this applies 
not alone to the above recipes but for puddings and tarts. 
If they are cut in quarters, then again lengthwise into 
smaller pieces or slices, they will never become properly 
tender, but will develop into something resembling leather 
rather than apples. They may be cut in quarters, but 



SWEET DISHES. 213 

afterwards crosswise in small nobbly pieces. The stewed 
apples may be done in an enamelled stewpan in exactly 
the same manner as the recipe No. 532. They must stew 
very gently, and only lightly mixed or stirred occasionally, 
but not reduced to a puree. Whipped cream will naturally 
improve any of the above dishes if served with them. 

534. Apples with Rice 

(Pommes a la Creole). 

Peel six or seven medium-sized rennets ; remove the 
core with a tube — the apples must remain whole ; stew 
them in a thin syrup of sugar flavoured with lemon. Drain 
them when tender — they must remain whole and firm ; 
arrange them side by side on a dish, leaving the centre 
free. Fill the hollow of the apple with red fruit jelly. 
Glaze the apple with apricot jam ; place a preserved cherry 
upon each apple, and round the cherry pierce the apple 
with small lozenges of angelica. Have ready some rice 
boiled in milk, sweetened and flavoured with vanilla — 
the rice must be quite firm. With a spoon arrange the rice 
in the empty space in the dish in the form of a pyramid. 
Pour over the rice a little apricot syrup, and serve the 
remainder in a sauce-boat. 

535. Apples in a Cage 

[Pommes en cage). 

Take eight rennets of a medium size ; remove the core 
with a cutter. Cook them (three parts done) in butter 
(No. 525). Roll out some puff paste or short crust 
(Nos. 579, 585) about % inch thick. Cut the paste in 
strips about 7 inches in length and ij^ inch in breadth. 
Enclose each apple in two lengths of paste in the form of a 
cross, joining them on the top of the apple ; arrange them 
on a baking tin ; brush them with yolk of egg ; bake them 
for twelve or fifteen minutes. Sprinkle over them finely 
powdered sugar. 



214 SWEET DISHES. 

536. To prepare Sugar for Syrups 

{Caisson da sue re). 

A small sugar thermometer will be found very useful 
to prepare the syrups, and can be procured in England. 
When it is desired to test the degree to which the boil- 
ing of the sugar has reached, it will suffice to place 
the sugar-tester on the surface of the liquid ; it will sink 
more or less; if the degree it marks is less than the one 
desired, let the syrup continue to boil until further 
reduced; if it marks a higher degree than is necessary, 
add water to the syrup. A warm syrup marking 3 2° is the 
consistency necessary for compotes, and it is called Sucre a 
la nappe. Continuing the boiling to attain 4° higher, the 
sugar is au parle ; then to 39 it becomes au souffle. It 
can be recogni.sed by blowing through the holes of a 
Strainer which has been steeped in the sugar; it will form 
little globules on the opposite side of the strainer or slice. 
When 41 are reached it is a la glu ; on dipping a 
moistened finger into the syrup it will stick like glue. At 
44 the sugar is au boule ; by dipping the wet finger again 
into the sugar one can form it into a small ball. A very 
little further boiling will bring it to au casse" ; at this point 
the sugar can be detached from the wet finger and broken 
like glass. Immediately after this stage comes the moment 
when the sugar commences to turn yellow, — it is then 
caramel ; and the last stage, a further one, will render it 
unfit for use. 



COMPOTES DE FRUITS. 



537. Compote of wild Strawberries 

( Compotes de petites /raises). 

Put into a stewpan y 2 lb. of white crushed sugar with 
a cupful of water (a teacup), let it boil briskly until much 
reduced (see No. 536, caisson du sucre); at this point re- 
move the stewpan from the fire, throw into the sugar 1 ^ 
lb. of wild strawberries, taking great care not to crush the 
fruit. Arrange them in a compote-dish. 

538. Compote of large Strawberries 

(Compote de grosses /raises). 

Boil J$j lb. of sugar with ^4 pint of water. When the 
syrup attains 32 (No. 536) take it from the fire to let 
it cool. Take the stalks from 2 lb. ef fine strawberries. 
Arrange them in a pyramid on a compote-dish and pour 
the cold syrup over them. 

539. Compote of Apricots 

( Compote d 'abricots). 

Choose 2 lb. of sound apricots. Boil 9 oz. of sugai 
with 1 pint of water, and throw in the apricots ; let them 
boil in the sugar a short time, — the apricots should be 
tender but not broken. Take them out carefully on a 



216 COMPOTES DE FRUITS. 

strainer, and place them in a compote-dish. Reduce the 
syrup to 32", then pour it over the fruit ; let all get cold. 

None of these fruits should be cooked in iron vessels; 
strawberries and raspberries become black on coming in 
contact with tin or iron. 

540. Compote of Cherries 
{Compote de Cerises). 

Boil in a preserving pan y, lb. of sugar in y 2 pint of 

water, add 2 lb. of cherries ; when the latter are tender take 
them out with a slice or strainer, and lay them in a com- 
pote-dish. Continue to boil the syrup to 32; throw over 
the cherries. Let them get cold. 

541. Compote of Peaches 

{Compote de pcclics). 

If the peaches are small, leave them whole ; if large, split 
them in the centre. Place them in a basin, pour 0V< r 
them boiling water ; two minutes after strain and peel 
them. Cook them the same as apricots (No. 530). 

542. Compdte of Raspberries 
{Compotes de framboises). 
The same as for large strawberries (No. 538). 

543. Stewed Pears 

{Compote de poires). 

Take the large hard stewing pears ; peel them, and take 
out the cores but do not throw them away. Cut the pears 
in halves, place them in a pan, put in ]^ lb. of white sugar 
to each pear, a tcacupful of water ; wash the peels and 
cover the pears with it ; take the cores and pips and tic 
them up in a muslin bag with a piece of stick cinnamon 
(if the flavour is liked) and a few whole cloves; put all in 



COMPOTES DE FRUITS. 217 

tin pan; cover closely, placing weights on the lid, and 
leave them to stew gently. They will take many hours 
before they are tender, and the less the pan is opened 
the better will be the colour of the pears. If these direc- 
tions are carefully followed they should turn a beautiful 
rich red, but if desired there is no harm in using a 
little cochineal. 

544. Stewed Quinces 

{Compote de coings). 

Proceed the same as for pears (No. 543). 



2lS 



CREAMS AND JELLIES 
[CRIMES FROIDES ET CELEliS). 



545. Whipped Cream 

( Crane foucltee). 

Put in a basin i pint of cream that has been kept foi 
a short time in ice, whip it gently to commence, then when 
it has nearly doubled its quantity whip very briskly until 
it becomes stiff. At this point add i l /> oz. of sifted sugar, 
either plain or flavoured with vanilla. (See No. 546, note). 
Note. — This cream can be flavoured in many different 
ways : with coffee, by adding a few drops of coffee essence 
(it is best to make the coffee, but it must be very strong, — 
a few drops suffice if of sufficient strength), which must be 
added directly the whipping is completed ; with chocolate, 
grated or dissolved ; with strawberries or raspberries, — 
these fruits are added to the whipped cream either whole 
or in a pitrde (mashed). The cream may also be flavoured 
with all kinds of litmeurs. 

546. Chocolate Custard 

{Crane ton r ne'e au chocolai). 

Dis '>lvc in a stewpan three tablets of chocolate with 
a teacupful of hot water ; when dissolved pour in 1 pint 
of milk ; boil up. Beat up in a basin five yolks of eggs 
with 4}4 oz. of line white sugar; add the chocolate little 



CREAMS AND JELLIES. 219 

by little to the eggs ; put back on the fire, and stir until 
it thickens. At this point remove the stewpan from the 
fire, and add to the custard four whites of eggs whipped 
to a stiff firm froth ; stir for an instant longer over the 
fire, but it must not boil. 

Note. — Be careful in whipping cream not to add the 
sugar until it is quite firm ; it will never become so if the 
sugar is added at the commencement. 

547. Almond Custard 

{Crime anglaise aux amandes). 

Toast lightly in the oven 1 y, oz. of blanched almonds ; 
pound them in a mortar, moistening them with a little 
milk if they are too dry during the pounding ; add them 
to a good custard while it is thickening over the fire. 

548. Macaroon Custard 

(Crime ang/aise aux macaroons). 

Make a good custard flavoured with vanilla ; pour it 
into a compote-dish. At the moment of serving cover it 
completely with crushed macaroons. 

549. Italian Cream 
{Crime a I'ilalienne). 

Put in a basin eight yolks of eggs, % lb. of sugar, half 
bottle of sherry, madeira, or marsala, cinnamon, or any 
other flavour preferred ; beat an instant with the whisk, 
put it in a pan over a very gentle fire, whisking briskly all 
the time; it should become frothy when thickening, but 
it must not boil. To be served in small glasses or china 
cups ; it can also be served as a sauce for sweet dishes. 

Note. — Keep in mind the instructions given for making 
sauces with eggs ; to avoid curdling it is always safer to 
use a bain-marie or by simply putting the custard in a 
jug, then the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, boil over 



220 CREAMS AND JEL1 IES. 

the fire, stirring all the time until it thickens : it will Lake 
a longer lime, but failure is impossible. 

550. Vanilla Custard 

{Crime bavaroise a la vanille). 

Soak five or six leaves of the finest French gelatine in 
cold water. Prepare a pint of custard flavoured with 
vanilla ; put one quarter of the custard on one side to get 
cold. Drain the gelatine, press every drop of water from 
it, and add it leaf by leaf to the larger quantity of the 
custard while it is still hot, stirring continually until the 
gelatine is all melted ; let it get completely cold, stirring 
occasionally. Whip up a pint of good cream, sweeten it 
slightly, add it by degrees to the cold custard, pour it 
into a mould, and set it in a cool place to become firm. 
Before serving plunge the mould quickly in boiling water 
and turn the cream on to a dish. Pour round it the 
custard that was put on one side. 

V '■-. — The translator has not thought it necessary to 
give a recipe for the making of an ordinary custard, the 
most elementary knowledge of cooking being sufficient 
to make one. 

551. Orange Cream 

{Crime bavaroise a /'orange). 

It is prepared in the same manner as the vanilla cream 
(No. 550), substituting the thin rind and the juice of the 
orange for the vanilla : they are to be infused in the 
custard. 

552. Chocolate Cream 

(Crime bavaroise au chocolat). 

Grate two tablets of chocolate ; make a Vanilla bavaroise 
(No. 550); before putting it in the mould mix in the 
grated chocolate. 



CREAMS AND JELLIES. 221 

553. Apricot Cream 

{Crime bavaroise aux abricots). 

Take twenty ripe soft apricots, split them, take out 
the stones, pass them through a hair-sieve. Put this purfe 
in a basin. Boil 6 oz. of sugar with a teacupful and a 
half of water ; mix the syrup with the puree of apricots, 
keeping back one-third of the purk for the sauce. Steep 
seven leaves of gelatine in cold water for ten minutes, 
drain and squeeze them well, then melt them in a small 
stewpan over a gentle fire ; pour in the puree of apricots, 
stirring continually. When the puree is cold, and before it 
is allowed to stiffen, mix it with a pint of whipped cream 
slightly sweetened ; pour all into a mould, and leave it in a 
cool place to set. Before serving plunge the mould quickly 
into boiling water ; turn out the bavaroise on to a round 
dish. Pour round it the syrup of apricots kept in reserve. 

-554. Strawberry Cream 

{Creme bavaroise aux /raises). 

Strain through a fine sieve i lb. of ripe strawberries, and 
prepare the bavaroise in the same manner as for No. 553. 
Raspberry cream can be made exactly the same. 

555. Chestnuts in Cream 

(A r id de marrons a la creme). 

To peel the chestnuts cut them round lightly with a 
knife; put them in a stewpan on the fire, just covered with 
cold water; boil for five minutes; take them out at this 
point, when they will be easily peeled both of the shell and 
inner skin. Prepare in this way 1 lb. of chestnuts, put 
them into a clean stewpan, just cover them with milk, add 
a small piece of vanilla ; let them boil with the stewpan 
covered. When the chestnuts are tender and the milk 
reduced, crush them in the stewpan with a wooden spoon, 



222 CREAMS AND JELLIES 

add £ lb. of powdered sugar, and pass all through a fine 
sieve. Put the purk in a basin, and stir it an instant to 
render it smooth : if it is too thick add a little milk to it ; 
but it is necessary for it to be a good consistency. The 
proper way is to form a border round a dish with this chest- 
nut purk forced through a syringe made expressly for the 
purpose, when it takes the form of vermicelli ; the whipped 
cream is heaped up in the middle in the form of a pyramid. 
One pint of cream lightly sweetened and flavour d with 
vanilla is sufficient for the quantity of chestnuts. If there 
is no syringe at hand, simply place a fine sieve upon a 
round dish and pass the chestnut purk through it, forming 
a border round the dish ; the whipped cream in the centre. 

556. Nesselrode Pudding 
{Nesselrode). 

Prepare a purk of chestnuts as above (No. 555), with 
this difference that the chestnuts are to be cooked in water 
instead of milk and the purk to be thinner ; add to this 
purk i]/2 oz. of stoned raisins, the same weight of mixed 
candied peel which has been previously softened in a small 
glass of warm kirsch or maraschino. Prepare twelve savoy 
biscuits cut in halves on a plate ; soak them in maraschino 
or kirsch. Steep six leaves of gelatine in cold water for 
ten minutes, squeeze them dry, melt them over a gentle 
fire, stirring all the time, mix them with the piu re of chest- 
nuts. Whip 1 pint of cream very stiff; mix it in gently to 
the purk. Fill a mould by placing a layer of the puree 
with one of soaked biscuits. Keep the Nesselrode in a 
cool place until it is quite set. At the moment of serving 
steep the mould in warm water, turn the pudding out into 
a round dish, soak it with a vanilla or kirsch syrup. 

Syrup for Nesselrode. — Boil ]/^ lb. of sugar for five 
minutes with a oiipful of water and a small piece of vanilla ; 
let it get cold, then add two liqueur-glasses of kirsch. 

Note. — By leaving out the gelatine this pudding can be 
iced like a bonibe (see No. 565). 



CREAMS AND JELLIES. 223 



557. Charlotte russe. 

Ornament the bottom of a mould with savoy biscuits 
split in halves, taking care to place them in a manner that 
they may take the form of a fan ; fill up the spaces with 
broken pieces of the cakes. Place the cakes whole round 
the sides of the mould, cut straight at one end to keep 
them upright. Prepare a bavaroise (No. 550) flavoured to 
taste ; when it commences to set, fill the mould with it ; let 
it get cold. Turn out the charlotte russe and surround it 
with custard. 

558. Charlotte russe very rich. 

(Cha?-lotte russe exguise). 

Whip up a pint of thick cream, add to it 1 y 2 oz. of fine 
sugar, place it on a sieve. Prepare a pint of vanilla 
custard. Take J^ lb. of whole finger biscuits and 6 oz. 
of powdered macaroons. Arrange part of the biscuits 
at the bottom of a deep dish ; steep them with a tumbler 
of malaga and two or three liqueur-glasses of cognac ; then 
throw over them part of the custard, cover this with a liyer 
of apricot jam or raspberry jelly, repeat with the remainder 
of biscuits, custard, and jelly. Mask the whole with the 
whipped cream, smooth to a point with the blade of a 
knife; then sprinkle with the powdered macaroons. 

559. Orange Jelly 

(Ge/ee a /'orange). 

For 1 quart of jelly take sixteen leaves of the fine French 
gelatine, — it should be perfectly transparent and without 
smell ; soften in cold water, drain and put it into a stewpan 
with a pint of water, the juice of two lemons, the thinly- 
peeled rind and juice of five oranges, two or three whites of 
eggs lightly beaten. Stir over a gentle fire, constantly beat- 
ing it with a whisk, until it boils ; move the stewpan to the 



224 CREAMS AND JELLIES. 

side of the stove, and simmer very gently for the next ten 
minutes. During the interval, boil ioj4 oz. of white sugar 
in y z pint of water ; when the syrup has boiled for five or 
six minutes, let it cool. Pour the jelly by degrees through 
the jelly-bag. The quantity which comes out first should 
be passed twice through the bag, as it is always a little 
cloudy. When all is through, the jelly can, if desired, be 
coloured with a little carmine, then add to it the sugar 
syrup. Fill the mould with this jelly, put it to cool, or if 
it is in the summer, surround it with broken ice until it is 
set. Steep the mould briskly in hot water to turn it out. 
This jelly can be ornamented inside with quarters of 
orange : if this is done, a layer of jelly is put in the mould 
first ; when it is set, arrange upon it a crown of quarters 
of the oranges ; cover them with jelly, and continue as 
above until the mould is full. 

Note. — When there is no jelly-bag at hand simply turn a 
chair or stool upside down on the table, tie a napkin at 
each end to the legs of it, place a basin underneath, and 
pass the jelly through. This arrangement has the advantage 
that one can be always sure the napkin is clean : with a 
jelly-bag there is occasionally some doubt on the subject 

560. Lemon Jelly 

(Gela- au citroii). 

Prepare it exactly the same as for orange jelly, simply 
substituting for the oranges the rind of three and the juice 
of five or six lemons. 

561. Wine Jelly 

(Getfc au vit: vieux). 

Put into a stewpan a bottle of good wine with to t < oz. 
of loaf-sugar, the rind of a lemon, a stick of cinnamon, two 
cloves; heat this without allowing it to boil. Strain the 
warm wine through a napkin into a basin. Soften sixteen 
leaves of gelatine in cold water for ten minutes ; drain them ; 



CREAMS AND JELLIES. 225 

put them into a stewpan with a teacupful of water (cold) and 
two whites of eggs beaten up an instant with the juice of a 
lemon ; beat this up for an instant over the fire with a 
whisk, until it commences to boil. Take the stewpan off 
the fire, cover it, let it simmer for ten or fifteen minutes on 
one side ; strain the same as for orange jelly. Mix this 
liquid with the wine in the basin, pour into a mould and 
let it set. 

562. Liqueur Jelly 

(Gef/e aux liqueurs). 

Prepare a clear jelly with 10^ oz. of sugar; the thin 
rind of a lemon, the juice of two ; sixteen leaves of gelatine 
dissolved in water, i y^ pint of water ; two or three whites 
of eggs beaten up ; proceed exactly the same as for orange 
jelly. When the jelly is strained and nearly cold, add 
to it six or seven liqueur-glasses of liqueur — either rum, 
brandy, kirsch, cura^oa, or anisette, according to taste. 
Pour all into a jelly-mould, and let it set. Plunge the 
mould into hot water and turn it out. 

563. Raspberry Jelly 
(Gelee aux frambcises). 

Clarify io^ oz. of sugar, sixteen leaves of gelatine dis- 
solved, i ^2 pint of water, and a piece of vanilla with three 
whites of eggs beaten up with the juice of a lemon. Crush 
i lb. of raspberries in a basin, add to them the juice of a 
lemon and a pinch of powdered sugar ; pour the raspberries 
into a hair-sieve with a plate underneath. Mix this strained 
juice with the jelly, fill the mould and let it set. Jellies of 
red gooseberries, cherries, strawberries, can be made in the 
same manner if desired. The interior of the jellies can be 
ornamented with layers of the fruit of which they are com- 
posed in the same manner as the jelly with quarters of the 
oranges (No 5£q). 

p 



226 CREAMS AND JELLIES. 



564. Jelly of mixed fruits 

(Gel/e a la macedoine de fruits). 

Apples and pears to be cut in small pieces, they must be 
stewed and drained on a napkin ; strawberries, raspberries, 
grapes, gooseberries are to be used as they are. If dried 
fruits are used, such as apricots, pine-apple, cherries, green- 
gages, &c, they must be well washed and dried, cut in 
halves or quarters according to size. These fruits are 
mixed in a lemon or liqueur jelly ; the moment it com- 
mences to set, pour all into a mould and place it on ice. 
It may also be poured into a salad-bowl which is to be 
kept surrounded by ice mixed with a little freezing salt; 
leave it for an hour and serve it in the bowl. 



565. Ices, Iced puddings 
(G laces, Bombes, Mousses). 

To ice several of the following recipes it is in no way 
necessary to be provided with an ice machine, — the desired 
result can be equally well attained in the simplest manner. 
Pour the mixture into any ordinary pudding mould which 
has a perfectly fitting cover, — it must be high and narrow. 
Take an ordinary pail, a zinc one is best — not too large, as 
it would need an unnecessary amount of ice — place at 
the bottom a good layer or piece of ice, then a layer of 
icing salt, place the mould on it ; then ice broken up 
small all round it, then two handfuls of salt, again ice and 
salt, and continue until it reaches to the level of the lid. 
The writer has made these puddings and has buried them 
completely with the ice and salt, — in that case it is safer 
to tie the mould up in a cloth, to avoid any risk of 
the salt penetrating. They will take five to six hours to 
freeze to the proper consistency, and as the ice melts more 
must be added. The proportion of salt to be used is i lb. 
to 6 lb. of ice. 



CREAMS AND JELLIES. 227 

566. Vanilla Cream Ice 
(G 'hues a la crane vanillic). 

Heat in a stewpan 1 quart of cream or good milk, add 
half a stick of vanilla split lengthwise ; let it infuse in the 
cream, which must not boil. Prepare in a basin eight or 
nine yolks of eggs, stir them an instant with ^ lb. of 
powdered sugar, using a wooden spoon ; add the warm milk 
or cream by degrees. Pour all back into the stewpan, and 
stir continually over a gentle fire until the cream com- 
mences lightly to thicken. At this point it will cover 
the wooden spoon with a thin coating. Take it from the 
fire and pass it through a fine sieve into a basin ; stir it 
briskly for a few minutes, then let it get cold, stirring it 
from time to time. Leave the vanilla in it until it is ready 
for icing. Put the mixture into a freezing-pot ; for this 
cream the mould or pot must be quite plain, and should be 
deep, long, and narrow ; cover tightly and proceed according 
to directions (No. 565); move the mould round briskly in 
the ice until a little of the mixture attaches itself to the 
sides, detach it from them with a spoon, cover again, con- 
tinue to turn and scrape it from the sides until all is set. 
In the interval be careful to remove the water as the ice 
melts, and to put more ice and salt until the cream is suffi- 
ciently iced. Then work it briskly with a spoon to render 
it smooth ; press it down as much as possible against the 
sides of the mould ; cover it with the lid, then again with a 
coarse cloth, and leave it for half an hour. It can be 
served either in ice plates or heaped up in a point upon 
a dish. 

Note. — For this kind of ice a proper mould is indispens- 
able ; they are to be bought at any good ironmonger's, and 
are long and narrow : the ordinary pudding mould would 
not answer the purpose. 

The above can be also made by adding a good glass of 
cream raw to the mixture when it is cold ; in that case, if 
economy is an object, the custard can be made with milk. 



228 CREAMS AND JELLIES. 

When a very rich cream is desired, make it according to the 
above directions (No. 566) ; after it has been some time in 
the pail and is nearly frozen add a tumbler of whipped 
cream, stirring it well in with the spoon to mix it equally. 
Finish as above (No. 565). 



567. Coffee Cream 
(G/aces a la crime au caff). 

Prepare a composition of cream as for above (No. 566), 
but without vanilla. Add to it while it is hot an infusion 
of very strong black coffee. Let it get cold, then ice it as 
directed above. 

Note. — Iced creams can be made with grilled almonds, 
with small Barcelona nuts, with walnuts, with caramel, with 
tea or chocolate. The cream is always prepared in the 
same manner ; if nuts are used for flavouring colour them 
lightly in the oven, then pound in a mortar, moistening 
them with a little milk during the process if they become 
too dry ; add them to the cream just when it begins to 
thicken on the fire. To flavour with caramel, tea, or 
chocolate, proceed exactly the same as for coffee cream, 
by using a strong decoction of the flavour desired. The 
French terms would be aux amandes grilUes (grilled 
almonds), aux noisettes (nuts), au caramel, au t/i/, au 
chocolat. 

568. Orange Ice 
(G/ace it /'orange). 

Prepare a syrup with 1 lb. of sugar and 1 pint of water ; 
let it boil three minutes. Pour it into a basin, add to it 
the thin rind of two oranges ; when the syrup is cold add 
to it 1 pint of juice (orange). Pass all through a fine sieve. 
It should mark 20 to 22 (see No. 536). Ice it according 
to directions (No. 565). 



CREAMS AND JELLIES. 229 

569. Vanilla Cream Pudding 
(Bombe a la vanille). 

Whip up very firmly one pint of cream ; put it on a sieve 
and keep it cool. Boil for three minutes 6 oz. of sugar 
with a tea-cupful of water and half a stick of vanilla — split 
lengthwise. The syrup should mark 30 (No. 536). Stir 
an instant with the whisk four yolks of eggs ; add to them 
by degrees the boiling syrup ; turn it back into the stewpan, 
heat it over a gentle fire until it thickens (must not boil), 
remove it from the fire and whip it occasionally until it is 
cold. Mix delicately together the cold syrup and the 
whipped cream, fill the mould with the mixture, cover 
tightly with the lid ; a sheet of white paper may with 
advantage be placed over the mould before fastening with 
the lid ; cut the paper which comes below the cover, and 
close all the joints of the mould with a paste of flour and 
water. Ice it according to directions previously given (No. 

565> 

Note. — This pudding can be made delicious by adding 
to it before putting it in the mould six macaroons and 
twelve ratafias very finely crumbled, and one liqueur-glass 
of finest maraschino. 

570. Strawberry Mousse 
(Mousse simple aux /raises et autres fruits). 

Pass 1 lb. of strawberries through a hair-sieve; keep 
this puree in a basin (not in any iron vessel) ; add 
6 oz. of powdered sugar; surround the bowl with ice 
broken into small pieces ; stir the puree for fifteen minutes 
with a wooden spoon. Beat up a pint of cream very firmly, 
let it drain on a hair-sieve for twenty minutes ; add it 
lightly to the puree of fruit in the basin ; leave it on 
the ice for twenty minutes longer. At the moment of 
serving it can be arranged in a bowl, or in small glasses or 
cups which have previously been cooled on ice. 



230 CREAMS AND JELLIES. 

Note. — This dish can be made with raspberries, peaches, 
apricots, &c. It can also, if desired, be iced in the same 
manner as for preceding recipes (No. 565). 

571. Vanilla Ice with Almonds 

(Bombe mousse nougat). 

Prepare a vanilla cream (No. 566); before pouring it 
into the mould add to it 4^ oz. of pounded almonds or 
nuts (barcelona or walnuts) : any of the latter are improved 
by colouring them (after peeling) lightly in the oven. See 
as above (No. 565). 

572. Chocolate Ice 

(Mousse simple au chocolai). 

Whip up very stiffly 1 pint of cream, place it on a 
sieve and keep it cool. Melt over the fire 4^ oz. of 
chocolate (3 tablets) in two dessert-spoonfuls of warm 
water; make it very smooth by stirring it with a wooden 
spoon; then add 33/ oz. of vanilla sugar and a cupful of 
water ; boil for some minutes until it becomes a smooth 
thick syrup. Pour this syrup into a basin, surround it 
with pounded ice ; stir all until it becomes cold ; then 
add lightly to it the whipped cream ; leave it to cool from 
fifteen to twenty minutes longer. This can be iced accord- 
ing to the above recipe (No. 565), or served in cups or 
glasses previously cooled on ice. 

573. Iced Custard 

{Mousse aux ceufs). 

If from economy or other reasons cream is not always 
obtainable, the following will be found a good substitute: 
Boil in a stewpan 6 oz. of sugar, with not quite y? pint of 
water and half stick of vanilla ; continue to boil until the 



CREAMS AND JELLIES. 231 

syrup is reduced one-third, and it must be thick, 30 (see 
No. 536); take it from the fire. Beat up five whites of eggs 
to a stiff froth ; mix them with the warm syrup, pouring it 
in very slowly and gently, while with the other hand you 
gently move about the whites of the eggs ; continue to stir 
frequently until all is cold. Prepare a tumblerful of fruit 
(any kind) made into a puree, with two dessert-spoonfuls of 
powdered sugar ; put this into a basin ; stir continually until 
it is quite smooth, — it is best done if possible over some 
pounded ice ; at this point add it to the eggs ; let it cool for 
twenty minutes, then ice (No. 565). 

Note. — All the above recipes can be made without 
cream, by simply preparing the mixture as a custard, then 
adding the different flavourings or purees of fruits. 



574. Iced Punch 

{Punch glace a la romaine). 

Prepare a syrup to mark 22 (see No. 536) with n oz. 
of sugar and 1 pint of water ; let it boil for three minutes ; 
pour it into a basin ; infuse in it the rind of three lemons 
and three oranges ; pass it through a hair-sieve, then ice it 
until it is congealed — for this purpose use the long ice- 
pot (see note at the foot of recipe No. 566) — stir round 
for an instant to render it smooth. Beat up to a firm snow 
the whites of two eggs. Boil for one minute 2 oz. of white 
sugar in a cup and a half of water ; add the warm syrup to 
the beaten eggs ; let all cool a little, then put it little by 
little into the mould in which is already the syrup ; stir all 
well and add to it by small quantities at a time a wine- 
glassful of rum. Let it remain undisturbed for half an 
hour before serving, taking precaution to keep the mould 
well surrounded by ice. It should be frothy and a little 
liquid ; to be served in glasses previously cooled on ice. 
At a dinner of ceremony this is generally served between 
the first and second courses. The rum may be replaced by 
any other liqueur. 



232 CREAMS AND JELLIES. 

575. Iced Italian Cream 
{Sabayon en moule glad). 

Make an Italian cream (see No. 578), — the correct name 
of this cream is Sabayon. Place it when made upon 
pounded ice ; stir until it is half cold, then add six leaves 
of dissolved gelatine. Pour it into a mould which has 
been previously standing on ice, and well surrounded by 
the same. When the cream has set, plunge the mould 
quickly in hot water and turn it out. 

576. Iced Coffee Cream 

{Cafe 1 a la crime glad). 

Take 3^ oz. of freshly washed and ground Mocha 
coffee, make an infusion with 1 pint of boiling water, 
let it get cold, then add to it 1 pint of good raw cream. 
Put it in the ice-mould, let it adhere to the sides of the 
mould, but do not turn the latter in the ice pail (see No. 
566); every ten minutes move the cream well into a 
compact lump ; at this stage stir briskly with a wooden 
spoon to render it smooth. The iced coffee is served in 
glasses or cups previously cooled on ice. 

577. Champagne Sorbet. 

{Sorbet au champagne). 

Prepare a syrup with ^ lb. of sugar and 1 pint of water, 
boil for three minutes ; pour it into a basin ; steep in it 
the rinds of one orange and one lemon. When cold add 
the juice of one lemon and two oranges ; strain it and add 
half a bottle (large) of champagne ; the entire mixture 
should mark 19° (see No. 536). Put the mixture in the 
ice-freezing mould, and proceed as for all the other ices ; 
stir it for an instant to render it smooth, then just before 
serving it add the remainder of the bottle of champagne, 
stirring all the time. To be served in glasses. 



CREAMS AND JELLIES. 233 

578. Italian Cream 
{Sabayon au viti). 

Beat up for five minutes in a stewpan seven yolks of eggs 
with y 2 lb. of powdered sugar, a small piece of the rind 
of a lemon or stick vanilla ; moisten this with two tumbler- 
fuls of good white wine. Place it over a gentle fire, beating 
all the time with a whisk until it commences to thicken, and 
just sufficiently hot to allow the finger to be passed through it 
without burning oneself. It must not boil. At this point 
remove it from the fire, continuing to whisk it an instant 
longer. Take out the lemon or vanilla, and pour the 
cream into glasses to be served immediately. This pro- 
portion will fill about twelve claret glasses. When the 
sabayon is preferred cold, place it upon pounded ice, and 
stir gently with the whisk until cold. 

Note. — Several of the latter recipes are served at ball 
suppers or as refreshments at evening parties. 



234 



PASTRY. 



579. Short Crust 

{Pate brise'e). 

Proportions : i lb. of flour, i/£ lb. of butter, two-thirds of 
a leacupful of water, a pinch of salt. Place the flour 
upon the board, stack it up into a round hillock with a 
hole in the centre, into this hole put the butter, water, and 
salt ; soften the butter an instant with the tips of the 
fingers, then little by little mix in the flour; make all into 
a ball ; crush it down twice with the palm of the hand, 
make it quite round. Let it rest fifteen minutes before 
using it. 

580. Kich Short Crust 

(Pate brisee fine). 

Proportions: i lb. of flour, ^ lb. of butler, yolk of 
one egg, two-thirds of a teacupful of cold water, a pinch 
of salt. 'Work the same as sbort crust. 

581. Paste for Cold Patties 

(Pate a pate f raid). 

Proportions : i lb. of flour, 6 oz. of butter, two yolks 
of eggs, pinch of salt, cup of tepid water. Work the .same 
as short crust. 



PASTRY. 235 

582. Short Crust for Open Tarts 

{Pate brisee au sucre). 

Proportions : 1 lb. of flour, 4^ oz. of fine sugar, 6 oz. 
of butter, pinch of salt, one whole egg, two-thirds of a 
teacupful of water. Work the same as the others. 

583. Suet or Lard Paste 
(Pate brisee a la graisse). 

Proportio?is : 1 lb. of flour, y 2 lb. of lard, a pinch of 
salt, two-thirds of a cup of water. This paste is made 
the same as all those above. Good beef-suet may also 
be used, but it must be melted, strained, then beaten with 
a fork until it becomes thick and white, when it can be 
used like butter. Pastry made with lard or suet should 
be eaten hot on the day it is made. 

Note. — Beef dripping clarified and strained makes 
excellent pastry to be eaten hot. 

584. 

Note. — Before giving the recipe for puff paste I will 
venture to give a little advice concerning it. By all means, 
if possible, take a practical lesson on it, — it will be worth 
a dozen written instructions. To any one who has a fair 
knowledge of pastry-making the recipe below, which I will 
endeavour to make as clear as possible, will offer no for- 
midable difficulties : to novices it might do so, although 
I have seen novices make it and the pastry turn out perfect. 
To make what is called the " well " in the middle of the 
flour requires a little dexterity : if the flour is taken too 
briskly from the sides the water will rush through over 
the board ; the latter should be kept clean and dry, scraped 
after each roll of the paste, nothing wasted, as it is all 
done by weight, and the exact quantity being prepared ; 
if there be any nervousness about making a "well" mix 



2j6 PASTRY. 

it in a basin. A marble paste board is a great improve- 
ment on a wooden one, but if the latter is used let it be 
large and a good thickness, otherwise it wobbles about 
and can render itself very unpleasant. The baking is a 
far greater difficulty than the making of the pastry; how- 
ever, a little experience soon overcomes that, and where 
there is a gas oven then the process is an easy one, as 
the same heat can always be obtainable and is quickly 
regulated. Never attempt to make this paste in a hot 
kitchen, the results would be fatal, and if possible keep 
it on ice between each rolling. 

585. Puff Pastry 

{Pate feuillete'e). 

Proportions : y 2 lb. of flour, j£ lb. of butter, pinch of 
salt, half a tumblerful of cold water. Put the flour on the 
board, make the " well," place in the centre a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut (the butter must be fresh, not salt), 
the water, and salt ; with the right hand soften the butter, 
then little by little draw the flour into the butter and water, 
but be careful not to allow the water to escape. When it 
is all absorbed knead the paste quickly with the palm of 
the hand to make it smooth and soft, and in the form of a 
ball ; make on the top a slight incision in the form of a 
cross, cover it with a cloth, and leave it in the cool for 
fifteen minutes. In the meantime put the butter (the small 
piece already used must be taken from the l /t lb.) in a cloth, 
and knead it about with the hand to soften it and make it 
smooth ; form it into a square. Then take the paste, roll it 
out into a band about eight inches in length and six 
in breadth ; place the butter in the centre, and turn the 
four sides of the paste over it that they may meet and join 
in the middle of the butter, which must be completely 
hidden. It may be rolled out at once, but if any nervous- 
ness be felt place it for ten minutes in the cool to avoid 
any chance of the butter coming through. When it is 
ready dust the board lightly with flour, then roll it out — it 



PASTRY. 237 

must be three times longer than wide ; the butter must not 
come through ; keep it all even — not broader in one place 
than another ; then turn up one end of the pastry to the 
centre, the other end right over these two, so forming three 
layers of paste one over the other. Turn the paste on the 
board over to its other side and roll out again exactly in 
the same manner as the first time, fold it in three exactly 
the same manner as before, let it rest for fifteen minutes, 
then repeat, giving two more turns ; always remember to 
turn the paste over between the first and second rolling 
out, leave it again for fifteen minutes, then give it two more 
turns which will be the last, six in all. Let it rest before 
using it. 

586. Puff Paste made with Suet 
{Pate feuilletce a la graisse de bceuf). 

Proportions : yi lb. of flour, ^ lb. of kidney - suet, 
tumblerful of cold water, a pinch of salt. Skin and chop 
the suet, then pound it until it is quite smooth and soft ; 
then work it about in a damp cloth to render it soft, give it 
a square form, then follow exactly the instructions given 
above (No. 585). Pastry made with suet should be eaten 
hot on the day it is made. 

Note. — The quantities given for puff pastry are very 
small, but they can be augmented when experience is gained. 



587. A commoner Puff Paste 

{Pate demi-feuilletee). 

Proportions : 1 lb. of flour, ^ lb. of butter, pinch of 
salt, tumblerful of water. Prepare the same as for puff 
paste, leaving ten minutes for each rest, giving only four 
rolls instead of six. 



238 PASTRY. 

588. Choux Pastry. 
{Pate a choux). 

Proportions : the weight of l / 2 lb. of water, y 2 lb. of 
butter, Y-z lb. of flour, a grain of salt, rind of a lemon, 3 oz. 
of sugar, eight whole eggs. Put the water, salt, sugar, and 
butter on the fire in a stewpan ; when the butter is melted 
and the liquid boils remove it to the side of the stove, add 
the flour to it, working all round briskly to form a thick 
ball without lumps. Dry the paste for four minutes over 
the fire, take the stewpan from the stove ; five minutes 
after, grate in the rind of a lemon and add the eggs one 
by one, stirring the paste well between each egg; 

Note. — Recipes made with the various pastes described 
above will be given further on in tin's work. Always use 
the best Hungarian flour for pastry ; let it be quite dry and 
passed through a hair-sieve. 



239 



PASTE MADE WITH DOUGH 
(PATE LEVEES). 



589. German Dough Cake 

{Gottglaf a Vallemaude). 

Proportions: y 2 lb. of flour, 3*4 oz. of butter, five whole 
eggs, 3^ oz. of sugar, a pinch of salt, a cupful of cream, 
Yi oz. of yeast, grated lemon, i 1 /^ oz. of almonds peeled 
and cut in shreds. To make this paste, the eggs and the 
flour must be warmed. Soften the butter, and place it in 
a tepid basin ; work it with a wooden spoon until it is quite 
creamy; add one egg and a table-spoonful of flour, con- 
tinuing to stir until both are well blended with the butter ; 
continue in the same way until all the eggs and flour are 
well mixed in, then add the yeast, which has been thinned 
with the cream, salt, and sugar. Work all well. Butter a 
mould (it should be one with a chimney) with clarified 
butter ; then dust the sides with the pieces of almonds — 
they will adhere to the butter; fill the mould two-thirds, 
putting in the paste small pieces at a time. Place the 
mould in a warm spot on the stove or fender until the paste 
rises to the top ; at this point put it in a good oven to cook 
from forty to fifty minutes. To test it, pierce it with a 
clean skewer ; if it comes out clean it is done. 



240 PASTE MADE WITH DOUGH. 



590. Brioche. 

Proportions : i lh. of flour, ^ lb. of butter, a pinch of 
salt, a dessert-spoonful of sugar, the same of cream, ^ oz, 
of yeast, eight whole eggs. Pass the flour through a sieve 
on to the paste board ; put the quarter of this flour into a 
small basin with the yeast, which has been already mixed 
with a cupful of warm water ; with this make rather a stiff 
paste; put it into a stewpan with two dessertspoonfuls of 
warm water at the bottom ; cover and place it to simmer on 
the stove, until it has swelled to twice the size. In the 
meantime, place in the centre of the flour which is spread 
on the board, the salt, sugar, and four eggs, and half of the 
butter which has been worked and softened ; first mix the 
butter with the eggs, then add the flour by degrees, so that 
a smooth paste is obtained ; knead it all thoroughly, then 
add piece by piece the remainder of the butter and the 
eggs. When the paste is smooth and shining, flatten it 
with the palm of the hand, and spread the yeast over it ; 
cut the paste into small pieces (pull them with the hand), 
piling them up as they are broken off; place them in a 
large basin, leaving them in a gentle temperature for four or 
five hours. When the paste has risen to twice the size 
take it from the basin, knead it to put it again together ; 
place it in a cooler spot ; directly it again rises take it from 
the basin ; put it on the floured board, flatten it with the 
hands (floured), then turn the edges over to the centre ; 
place it on a baking-tin, and put in a cool place for thirty 
minutes. Butter a large or several small moulds with large 
flutes in them ; put two thirds of the paste on the board ; 
mould it into a round form, and put it in the mould (must not 
be higher than two-thirds of the mould); form the remainder 
of the paste in the shape of a long pear; with a wet finger 
make a hole in the centre of the paste which is in the 
mould ; into this hole put in the paste in the shape of a 
pear ; this forms the head of the brioche. Lightly brush 
the top with yolk of egg ; place the mould in the oven on a 



PASTE MADE WITH DOUGH. 24 1 

tin : it will take from one to one and a half hour, according 
to size. The heat should be kept at the same point, and 
the cake covered with buttered paper directly it begins to 
take colour. Take it out of the mould as soon as it is baked. 



591. Bab a. 

Proportions : y 2 lb. of flour, }( lb. of butter, four whole 
eggs, ^ oz. of sugar, half a cupful of warm milk, *^ oz. of 
yeast, grain of salt, ^ oz. of mixed peel cut in small dice, 
and i*4 oz. of raisins or currants. Warm the eggs and 
butter. Put a quarter of the flour in a cup, mix it with the 
yeast which has been dissolved in warm milk, make a soft 
paste of the yeast and flour, place it on the stove until it 
has risen to double its size ; at this point put it in a basin 
with the remainder of the flour round it ; break into it two 
eggs, put in the salt, the sugar, and butter ; knead it with 
the hand, adding the flour to it by degrees ; make a smooth 
paste of it ; knead this for some minutes, then add another 
egg ; continue in this way until all the eggs are used. 
When the paste quite shines add the peel and raisins. 
Butter a mould with clarified butter, fill it two-thirds with 
the paste, putting it in in small quantities at a time ; place 
the mould on the stove until the paste rises to the edge — 
then in the oven, which must be a good one ; it will take 
about forty minutes to bake ; insert a clean skewer to see 
when it is done, — the skewer must come out quite clean. 
Turn it out on to a dish, and pour over it while it is hot the 
following syrup. 

Syrup for Baba. — Boil 3 oz. of sugar in half a teacupful 
of water, a little of the rind of a lemon ; add to it one 
liqueur-glass of madeira wine and two of rum. 

592. Savarin. 

Proportions: )£ lb. of flour, 3 oz. of butter, 1 oz. of 
sugar, six eggs, ^ oz. of yeast, half teacupful of milk, grain 
of salt, the rind of a lemon chopped or minced fine. Warm 
Q 



242 PASTE MADE WITH DOUGH. 

the eggs and the butter. With the warm milk and one- 
fourth of the flour make a little paste, then proceed exactly 
the same as for Baba (No. 591); but the paste must be 
worked longer. When it is very soft and shining it should 
be easily lifted with the hand in one piece from the 
basin ; that is a good sign that the paste is well made. 
Fill the mould two-thirds ; let it stand in a warm tempera- 
ture ; when the paste reaches the top of the mould place it 
in a good oven for about forty minutes. Turn it out and 
pour over while hot the following syrup. The mould 
should be a plain one. 

Syrup for Savarin. — Boil 3 oz. of sugar in half a cupful 
of water, and a small piece of the thin rind of an orange ; 
add to it two liqueur-glasses of kirsch, the same of curacoa. 



243 



SPONGE CAKES 

(BISCUITS). 



593. Almond Sponge Cake 

(Tourte biscuit aux amandes). 

Proportiojis : % lb. of sugar, 2^ oz. of almonds — sweet 
with a few bitter mixed with them — 2 oz. of flour, one lemon 
rind grated, one whole egg, six yolks, and six whites beaten 
to a froth. Peel and pound the almonds with the whole 
egg ; when they are reduced to a fine paste put them in 
a basin with the yolks, sugar, and lemon rind ; beat with a 
wooden spoon until the whole is quite creamy. Beat up 
the whites of the eggs to a very stiff snow, mix them 
delicately to the preparation the same time as the flour; 
they must only be gently blended in, not beaten. Butter a 
mould with clarified butter, then powder it with potato-flour 
mixed with a little powdered sugar ; pour in the mixture — 
the mould must not be too full ; bake in a moderate oven 
from forty to fifty minutes. If the cake commences to take 
colour quickly, place buttered paper over it. When baked, 
turn it out upside down on to a round dish covered with 
paper. If the cake is to be glazed, spread on the top of it 
a thin layer of jelly or apricot jam, then the following icing. 
Icing for above. — Put in a small basin a teaspoonful of 
water and a small glass of any liqueur, add to this liquid 



244 SPONGE CAKES. 

sufficient icing sugar to make of it a thin paste neither too 
thick nor too liquid. Beat for five minutes with a wooden 
spoon to make it very smooth. At this point pour it on 
the cake on the top of the jam, and spread it over equally 
with a knife. Put the cake for an instant at the mouth of 
the oven to feel the heat, then let it cool. 



594. Sponge Cake with Nuts 

{Toxirte biscuit aux noisettes). 

Proportions : j{ lb. sugar, 2}4 oz. of barcelona nuts, 
2 oz. of flour, rind grated of half an orange, one whole egg, 
six yolks and six whites beaten to a stiff snow. Skin and 
pound the nuts with the whole egg, then proceed exactly as 
for almond sponge cake (No. 593). 

595. Sponge Cake with Meringue 

(Tourte meringuie). 

Proportions : y^ 11). of sugar, 2^ oz. of flour, four yolks of 
eggs, four whites, a small lemon grated, one grain of salt. 
Heat up in a basin the sugar, lemon rind, and yolks ol 
work until all is creamy; beat up the whites to a firm 
snow, add them to the mixture the same time as the flour 
and salt. Butter the mould with clarified butter, turn it 
upside down for an instant, then flour it over the butter, 
pour in the mixture and bake for thirty to thirty- five 
minutes in a moderate oven. Always cover with buttered 
paper when it commences to take colour. Take it out of 
the mould, place it on a baking-tin. Beat up three whites 
of eggs to a froth, add to them y^ lb. of powdered sugar ; 
spread over the cake a thin layer of jam, then cover it com- 
pletely with the meringue paste, spread it over smoothly 
and equally with the blade of a knife ; powder the surface 
and sides with powdered sugar. Put it in a very gentle 
oven to colour slightly. 



SPONGE CAKES. 245 

596. Sandwich Cake, Iced 
{Tourte biscuit an punch). 

Proportions : ^ lb. of sugar, 3 oz. of flour and potato- 
flour mixed, 3*4 02. melted butter (dissolved), grated rind 
of a lemon, five yolks of eggs, five whites beaten to a firm 
froth, small glass of rum. Stir in a basin the sugar, lemon 
rind, and yolks of eggs ; when the mixture is creamy, beat 
up the whites, mix them delicately to the rest, adding the 
sifted flour little by little, then last the tepid butter and 
the rum. Butter the cake-mould, which should be plain 
and shallow, flour it after it has been buttered ; bake in a 
moderate oven from forty to fifty minutes. Turn the cake 
out on to a board ; when it is cold cut it in two so as to 
make two rounds, put on one round a layer of jelly or jam, 
cover it again with the other half; spread a thin layer of 
the same jam over the surface, and glaze it with the 
following icing. 

Glace au punch. — Put into a bowl a dessert-spoonful of 
orange or lemon juice, a small glass of rum ; add icing 
sugar to this liquid (see No. 593), put in as much sugar as 
it will absorb, to make a liquid paste ; stir for ten minutes 
to render it smooth. At this point pour it over the cake, 
smooth it into an equal thin layer ; place it for an instant at 
the entrance of the oven. Take it out and let it get cold. 

597. Macaroon Tart 

{Tourte a Veaii). 

Proportions : y± lb. of sugar, j£ lb. of ground almonds, a 
trifle less than 1 oz. of flour, three whites of eggs, one table- 
spoonful of orange-flower water. If ground almonds are not 
obtainable, pound some finely, moistening them little by 
little with orange-flower water ; then add the sugar, flour, 
and whites of eggs beaten to a froth. Line the cake-mould 
with puff paste or rich short crust (see Nos. 580, 585); 



246 SPONGE CAKES. 

pour in the mixture, smooth it with a knife; bake in a 
moderate oven from forty to fifty minutes. When the tart 
is almost cold spread over it a thin layer of jelly or jam, 
then cover with the following icing. 

Glace a I'eau. — Poil for five minutes 1^ oz. of sugai 
with a cupful of water, pour this in a bowl, add to it icing 
sugar flavoured with vanilla, make a liquid paste ; pour this 
over the tart, smooth it evenly and quickly with the blade 
of a knife. Put it for an instant at the entrance of the 
oven. Turn it out and let it cool. This mixture may be 
baked in small patty-pans lined with the paste. 



598. 

( Tonrte au pain noir). 

Proportions: ]/^ lb. of sugar, 1^ oz. of bread-crumbs 
(baked), t>% oz - °^ ground almonds, six yolks of eggs, five 
whites beaten to a froth, \y± oz. of candied peel cut in 
small dice, rind of a lemon grated. Pound the aim 
moistening them during the process with white of egg ; put 
them in a basin with the six yolks of egg, the susjar, the 
lemon rind ; stir all well until it becomes creamy ; add to it 
very gently the whites beaten up to a stiff froth, the bread- 
crumbs, and the candied peel. Pour all into a buttered 
and floured mould, bake in a moderate oven from forty to 
fifty minutes. Turn it out of the mould, and when it is 
nearly cold spread over the top a layer of jelly or jam, then 
ice it with chocolate. 

Chocolate icing. — Grate 1 l / 2 oz. of chocolate flavoured 
with vanilla ; dissolve it over the fire with quarter of a cup 
of water, stirring all the time with a spoon, but it must not 
boil ; at this point add 1 y 2 oz. of glazing sugar, then give 
all one boil up over the fire. Pour over the tart and 
smooth it with a knife ; let it get cold. 



SPONGE CAKES. 247 

599. 

{Toitrte biscuit au beurre). 

Proportio?is : % lb. of sugar, 3^2 oz. of flour, 1^ oz. 
of dissolved butter, one whole egg, four yolks, four whites 
beaten up, one grated rind of a lemon. Stir in a basin the 
sugar, the yolks, the whole egg, and the lemon peel. Beat 
well, and when all is creamy add the beaten whites and 
the flour very gently, then the warm butter. Mix all in 
lightly ; never beat after the beaten-up whites of eggs have 
been added. Pour all into a buttered and floured mould, 
bake in a moderate oven from forty to fifty minutes. Ice 
it with an icing flavoured with rum, proceeding as for above. 
This mixture can be baked on a baking-tin, spreading it to 
the thickness of about two-thirds of an inch. When baked 
put jam and icing over it according to any of the above 
recipes, then cut it in small squares or lozenge -shaped 
pieces; pile them on a dessert-dish. 



600. Geneva Sponge Cake 

(Tourte de Geneve). 

Proportions : 2 oz. of almonds, 6 oz. of castor sugar, 
grated rind of a lemon, 1 oz. of chopped candied peel, 
five whites of eggs, ^ oz. of flour. Pound the almonds 
moistened with the white of an egg, put them into a basin 
with the sugar, lemon rind, and candied peel. Beat for an 
instant, then add lightly the flour and beaten whites of 
eggs ; pour this into a cake-mould, lined with rich short 
crust (No. 580); smooth the top with a knife. Bake in a 
gentle oven for about forty minutes. Ice over with punch 
icing (No. 596). 



248 bl'ONGE CAKES. 

601. Sand Cake 

(Tourte de sable). 

Proportions : 6 oz. of butter, 6 oz. of sugar, 5^ oz. of 
potato-flour, six yolks of eggs, one grain of salt. Half melt 
the butter in a basin ; beat it until it becomes creamy, 
adding to it one after the other the six yolks of eggs, then 
the sugar, lemon rind grated, the salt and flour. Pour into 
a mould buttered, and dusted with potato-flour. Bake in 
a gentle oven from forty to forty-five minutes. Ice it over 
with icing flavoured with liqueur (No. 596). 

602. 

{Tourte biscuit vwusseline). 

Proportions: j^ lb. of vanilla sugar, % lb. of flour and 
potato-flour mixed, six yolks of eggs, six whites beaten up, 
one grain of salt. Put into a basin the sugar and the yolks 
of eggs ; beat with a wooden spoon until the mixture 
becomos creamy ; then add gently the flour, beaten-up 
whites of egg, and the salt. Pour into a mould which has 
been buttered and dusted with potato-flour. Pake in a 
moderate oven. Turn out on to a board ; spread over the 
surface a thin layer of raspberry jam or jelly, then cover all 
with a raspberry icing. 

Glace royale aux fratnboises. — Work for ten minutes in a 
basin 3 oz. of icing sugar with the half of a white of egg, a 
dessert -spoonful of raspberry juice. The icing must be 
liquid, neither too thick nor too thin, l'our this over the 
tart; spread it evenly with the blade of a knife. Put it an 
instant at the entrance of the oven or on the stove to allow 
the icing to become firm. 

603. 

(Tourte tnanque'e). 

Proportions : ]/ 2 lb. of sugar — part of it to be vanilla 
sugar — grated rinds of an orange and lemon, y^ lb. of flour, 



SPONGE CAKES. 249 

\]/2 oz. of potato-flour, six yolks of eggs, six whites beaten 
to a snow, 2 oz. of butter. Beat the sugar and yolks of 
eggs together for five minutes with also one whole egg, 
then add the butter dissolved, half of the flour, and part of 
the beaten whites. When all is well mixed, add the re- 
mainder of the flour, the potato-flour, and beaten whites ot" 
eggs. Butter the mould, powder it with potato-flour and 
sugar, pour in the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven. 
When it is almost finished take it from the oven, brush it 
over with yolk of egg, powder it with fine sugar, and spread 
over it a. glace royale (No. 602), adding to it some almonds 
dried in the oven and cut in small pieces. Put back in 
the oven to let it take a beautiful colour. 

604. 

( Vacherin aux amandes a la crane). 

Proportions : ^ lb. of ground almonds, yi lb. of sugar, 
one lemon rind grated, two or three whites of eggs. Pound 
the almonds very finely (if ground ones cannot be obtained) 
with the whites of one or two eggs, add the sifted sugar and 
grated lemon rind. Put this paste into a basin, thin it 
with the remaining white of egg, add more if necessary : 
it must be a liquid paste, so that it can be spread on 
a baking-tin buttered and floured previously ; it must be 
put on with a spoon in a band 14 inches long and 3 inches 
broad. Bake it in the oven until it takes a light brown 
colour ; take it out, trim the edges of the band, roll it up 
while it is hot round a mould, fasten the two ends firmly 
together, and let it get cold. In the meantime whip up a 
pint of cream, sweeten it and flavour it with vanilla. Place 
the almond form upon the centre of a round dish ; put part 
of the cream in the middle of the cake ; upon this break 
up some meringues, then cover them with cream, smooth 
with a knife. Decorate the surface of the vacherin with a 
little cream kept back for that object, put through the 
forcing-bag used for those purposes (see Nos. 531, 555, 
note at bottom). 



250 SPONGE CAKES. 

Note. — Vachetins aux matrons can be made by garnish- 
ing the inside with chestnut purie (see No. 555) passed 
through a sieve, and alternated with whipped cream. It 
can also be made with meringue, instead of the almond 
paste, which simplifies the process, by merely crushing up 
the meringues and covering them with cream. The more 
they are ornamented on the top and sides with cream 
pressed through the forcing-bag the better. When made 
only with meringue it can be formed into a pyramid. 

605. Meringues a- la creme. 

For twelve meringues, put six whites of eggs into a 
basin, a little salt, but not more than the size of a pin's 
head ; beat them up into a stiff snow ; add gently and 
lightly to them y 2 lb. of sifted sugar. Place a sheet of 
white paper all over a baking-sheet of iron, arrange the 
meringues on it, formed either with a table-spoon or with 
the forcing-bag used for ornamenting (Nos. 531, 555); 
leave a space of j^ inch between each meringue, and 
sprinkle with fine sugar. Place in a very gentle oven, 
bake until they are crisp and delicately tinted golden. 
Turn the paper upon which the meringues have been baked 
upside down upon the table ; moisten the paper on the 
back with a brush dipped in cold water; five minutes after 
the meringues will come off easily. Make each meringue 
hollow by pressing with the finger on the centre of it ; put 
them back on the tin, and place it on the stove to dry 
them. Beat up firmly a pint of cream, add lightly to it 2 
oz. of vanilla sugar, and fill the meringues. 

606. Sandwich Rolls 

(Biscuit rouli). 

y 2 lb. of sugar, 6 oz. of flour, ten yolks of eggs, and 
nine whites beaten to a froth, one grain of salt, one lemon 
rind grated. Beat up the sugar, yolks of eggs, and the 
lemon. Whip up the whites, add them lightly to the 



SPONGE CAKES. 25 I 

mixture, the flour (passed through a sieve) at the same 
time. Line a baking-sheet of iron with white paper, butter 
the paper, and spread over it the mixture to the thick- 
ness of about }i inch. Bake in a moderate oven for about 
thirty minutes. Turn the baking-tin over on to a board 
powdered with fine sugar ; gently take off the paper from 
the cake, and quickly cover it with any jam ; roll up the 
sponge holding it with both hands (it must take the form 
of a sausage), then roll it in white paper and leave it to get 
cold. Take off the paper, cut it in slices, and arrange on 
a dish. 

607. Ladies' Fingers 

{Biscuits pelerines'). 

Proportions : */ 2 lb. of sugar, 5 oz. of flour, eight yolks 
of eggs, eight whites, grated rind of a lemon, one grain of 
salt. Beat up the sugar, yolks of eggs, and the lemon rind ; 
continue to beat until they become white and creamy ; 
then add gently the flour (sieved) and beaten whites of 
eggs. Prepare a baking-sheet with white paper, covering it 
entirely; put the mixture in a forcing-bag with a plain 
pipe at the end (Nos. 531, 555), and press it through on 
to the tin in long pieces about 4 inches in length and 1 % 
inch apart one from the other; sprinkle them plentifully 
with fine sugar. After a few minutes put them in a 
moderate oven, bake them about thirty minutes until they 
are a beautiful colour; leave them to get cold on the 
paper; take them off by passing the blade of the knife 
between the cakes and the paper. It is safer to butter the 
latter before placing the mixture on it. 

608. 

(Biscuit aux amandes). 

Proportions : % lb. of almonds, % lb. of sugar, eleven 
yolks of eggs, five whites beaten to snow, one dessert- 
spoonful of water; 1% oz. of potato-flour. Pound the 
almonds, mix with five yolks of eggs ; in another basin 



252 SPONGE CAKES. 

beat up the sugar with the six yolks until all is creamy, 

then add the almonds and eggs, then the flour and whites 
of eggs beaten to a firm snow. This mixture may either 
be baked as a tart or in small buttered moulds, dusted 
with icing sugar mixed with potato-flour. 

609. 

(Bisati/s ai/x pis/aches). 

Proportions : y z lb. of sugar, 4^ OZ. of flour, ^ lb. of 
pistachio-nuts peeled and pounded with the white of six 
eggs, one teaspoonful of orange-flower water, a grain of salt. 
Beat up the yolks and the sugar ; when it is light and 
creamy add the pistachio-nuts, the beaten whites of eggs, 
and the flour, gently and by degrees. Bake in small 
moulds buttered and dusted with potato-flour mixed with 
fine sugar. It can also be baked upon a baking-sheet 
covered with paper, buttered the same as the moulds. 
When baked on a tin, it may be iced if desired. Then 
cut in suuares or lozenges. 



253 



CAKES 
(GATEAUX). 



610. 

(Gateau Bertha). 

Proportions : % lb. of nuts (barcelona), 5 oz. of sugar, 
1 oz. of butter, 1 y 2 oz. of flour, six yolks of eggs, four 
whites beaten to a stiff snow, one lemon rind grated or 
juice of lemon, a teaspoonful of orange flower water. Pound 
the nuts with half a teacupful of water ; add the sugar, the 
yolks of eggs, and the lemon rind ; mix all well for a moment, 
then mix in lightly the whipped whites, at the same time 
the flour (sieved), both to be added by degrees and never 
beaten, then the butter tepid and half-melted, the lemon 
juice, and the orange-flower water. Line a baking-sheet 
with puff paste (No. 585), place over it a thin layer of jam, 
then pour in the mixture, smooth it over, bake in the oven 
for about forty-five minutes. This cake can also be served 
iced (see No. 597). 

611. 

(Gateau Mascotte). 

Proportions : y^ lb. of almonds, ^ lb. of powdered 
sugar, 1 oz. of dissolved butter, 3 oz. of grated chocolate 
(two tablets), six yolks of eggs, four whites beaten to a stiff 



254 



CAKES. 



froth. Pound the peeled almonds in half a tcacupful of 
water ; put this paste into a basin ; add to it the sugar 
which must be flavoured with vanilla, the yolks of eggs ; 
work all well for ten minutes, then add the whites and 
chocolate gently and by degrees, then the dissolved butter. 
Line a baking-tin with puff paste or rich short crust (see 
Nos. 567, 571). Lay over it a thin layer of jam, pour in 
the mixture, smooth it over, bake for about forty-five to 
fifty minutes. When cold it may be iced with chocolate 
(see No. 598). 

612. 

{Gateau de Aft /an). 

Proportions: y 2 lb. of flour, j£ lb. of butter, ^ lb.ofsug.tr, 
one whole egg, one yolk, a grain of salt, a grated rind of 
lemon, a teaspoonful of rum. Place the flour on a board ; 
form it into a hillock with a hole in the centre; put into 
this the butter, sugar, lemon rind, egg, and rum. Mix with 
the hand first the butter, sugar, and eggs, then the flour; 
make all into a ball. Roll it out to the thickness of a little 
more than % inch ; form into small cakes with a cake 
cutter ; arrange them on a baking-sheet lightly buttered ; 
brush the cakes over with yolk of egg ; cook in a good 
oven for about fifteen minutes. These cakes will keep 
well for days if kept in a tin. 



613. GS.teau de Milan very rich. 

Proportions : ]/ 2 lb. of flour, 5^ oz. of butter, % lb. 
of sifted sugar, four or five yolks of eggs, a grain of salt, 
rind of grated lemon, a teaspoonful of cognac. Make 
the paste as above (No. 612); leave it for twenty five 
minutes in a cool place before forming into cakes. 



CAKES. 255 

614. 

{Gateau Souvaroff) 

Prepare the same paste as for gateau de Milan (Nos. 
612, 613); divide it into two parts; flatten with the roller, 
keeping them in a round form. Place them on a buttered 
baking-tin, but they must not touch one another. From 
one of these pieces cut out the centre with a small cake 
cutter ; bake them in the oven until they have taken a 
beautiful colour; let them get cold. Upon the piece 
which is not cut in the centre spread a layer of jam, place 
the other piece over it, trim the edges round to make all 
even ; on this border spread some jam, then sprinkle with 
powdered sugar, not finely powdered but in grains. 
Arrange on a dish, and fill the hole in the centre with a 
little fruit jelly. 

615. 

{Gateau polonais). 

Proportions : % lb. of almonds, ^ lb. of sifted sugar, 
two teaspoonfuls of orange-flower water ; two dessert-spoon- 
fuls of water. Pound the almonds, moistening them with 
the water and orange-flower water ; mix in the sugar. Take 
yi lb. of puff paste (No. 585), divide it into two parts, one 
a little larger than the other. Roll the smaller piece to the 
thickness of y& inch, lay it at the bottom of a round baking- 
sheet, spread on it the almond paste to within y^ inch of 
the border; moisten the border; roll the other piece 
of pastry to twice the thickness of the lower piece, place 
it over the almonds. Join by pressing lightly on the edges 
of the two pieces of pastry ; brush over the top with yolk 
of egg. Bake in a good oven from twenty-five to thirty 
minutes ; an instant before taking out powder some sugai 
over the top to glaze it. 



256 CAKES. 

616. Savoy Cake 
( Gateau biscuit de Savoie). 

Proportions : % lb. of powdered sugar, 2^ oz. of flour, 
iyi oz. of potato-flour, seven yolks of eggs, seven whites 
beaten stiffly, rind of one orange grated, the same of lemon, 
one grain of salt. Put in a basin the sugar, the yolks, the 
orange and lemon rinds, salt ; work well for twelve to fifteen 
minutes. When all is creamy, mix in lightly the beaten 
whites and the sifted flour. Butter a mould with warm 
clarified butter; turn it over an instant to drain it well; 
dust it with finely powdered sugar mixed with potato- 
flour. Fill the mould three-quarters full, taking care to 
put the mixture in by spoonfuls and in a manner that it 
may rise more at the sides than in the middle. Place the 
mould on a baking-sheet ; put in a good oven for about 
one hour. An instant after taking it out of the oven 
separate it from the mould and place it on paper. Powder 
with sugar. 

Note. — All these cakes should be covered with buttered 
paper directly they commence to take colour, otherwise 
they will become too deeply browned before the interior 
is baked ; also if there be any fear of the cake rising above 
the border, and so falling over before it is set, pin a piece 
of paper (buttered) round the mould so that it reaches a 
couple of inches above it. 

617. 

(Gateau St IlonorS). 

Prepare tine pate a choux (No. 588). Spread upon a 
baking-tin a round layer of paste de pate a gateau de Milan 
(No. 612). Put the pate a choux in a bag with a plain 
pipe at the end of it (Nos. 531, 555); push out all 
round the layer of paste a kind of border of the pate; 
bake in a moderate oven, taking rare to prick the centre 
of the cake with a fork to prevent it forming into bubbles) 



CAKES. 257 

with the remainder of the pate a choux, which is in the 
bag, form upon another baking- tin some little choux or 
lumps about the size of a small nut ; bake them in a 
moderate oven. When all is ready boil two dessert-spoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar with the same of water, until the 
sugar commences to get slightly yellow ; at this point 
steep briskly each little chou in the syrup ; put them in 
on their flat surface, and stick them at once upon the 
border of the cake after it is baked ; place them all 
round. In the interval prepare a good custard, add to 
it two leaves of dissolved gelatine ; whip this up frequently 
until it is nearly cold, then two whites of egg into a stiff 
snow. Ornament the middle of the cake by arranging 
the custard in spoonfuls in the centre. 

Note. — I should think whipped cream added to the 
custard in place of the white of eggs would be an im- 
provement. 

618. 

{Gateau mokd). 

Proportions : }£ lb. of sugar, 3 oz. of flour mixed with 
potato-flour, five yolks of eggs, five whites beaten to a 
stiff snow, rind of one lemon grated. Prepare and bake 
as ordinary sponge cake without the almonds (No. 592); 
bake it in an ordinary cake-mould ; when it is cold cut 
it through the middle breadthways ; spread the coffee 
cream upon the lower half; cover it again with the upper 
piece and spread over the top of the cake a thin layer 
of jelly or jam, then pour over it the following icing which 
must be smoothed with the blade of a knrfe. 

Icing for the top of the cake. — With half a small coffee 
cupful of very strong black coffee and 2 oz. of sugar make 
a little syrup ; pour this into a bowl, and add to it sufficient 
icing sugar to make a liquid paste. 

Coffee cream to put in the middle of the cake. — Put into a 
basin three yolks of eggs, half a teaspoonful of potato-flour, 
three table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar; beat up for an 

R 



258 CAKES. 

instant; thin it with half a cupful of rather strong black coffee. 
Stir over a slow fire until the cream thickens, — it must not 
boil, and must be free from lumps ; take from the fire ; 
add to it in small pieces at a time % lb. of best fresh butter 
half dissolved ; beat all up briskly with the whisk until 
it commences to thicken ; at this point it can be spread 
on the cake. 

619. 

( Crane pour mettre dans le milieu du gateau). 

This is another way of preparing the custard for spreading 
in the middle of the above (No. 618). Soften at the 
entrance of the oven ^ lb. of fresh butter, beat it to a 
cream, adding by degrees two dessert-spoonfuls of thick 
cream, ^ lb. of powdered sugar, and a little essence of 
coffee. 

62a 

(Gateau amandine). 

Proportions : }{ lb. of almonds (a few of them may be 
bitter), % lb. of sugar, y^ lb. of dissolved butter, two dessert- 
spoonfuls of orange-flower water, grain of salt, two whole 
eggs. Pound the almonds with the orange-flower water; 
add to them the sugar, the eggs, and the dissolved butter. 
Spread this between two rounds of puff paste, exactly the 
same as for gateau polonais (No. 615). Bake in a good 
oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes ; an instant before 
taking it out sprinkle over it some finely powdered sugar. 

621. 

(Gateau frangipane meringul). 

Put into a stewpan 1 y 2 oz. of flour, three yolks and one 
whole egg, 3 oz. of powdered sugar, grated rind of an 
orange, grain of salt, i^£ oz. of dissolved butter. Mix all 
with \y 2 pint of milk, — it must be perfectly smooth and 






CAKES. 259 

free from lumps. Stir over the fire until it commences to 
bubble ; let it get partly cold. Cover the baking-tin with 
rich short crust (No. 580) ; spread the above mixture over 
it ; bake in a warm oven. In the interval beat to a firm 
snow three whites of eggs, add to them gently 3 oz. of 
powdered sugar. When the cake is baked cover the 
surface of it with this meringue paste, then sprinkle the top 
with chopped almonds or pistachio-nuts mixed with the 
same quantity of powdered sugar ; put the cake back in 
the oven until the meringue takes a golden tint. 

622. 

{Gateau milk-feuilles). 

Take y^ lb. of flour, y 2 lb. of butter, a pinch of salt, 
and a cupful of water; make with this a puff paste (No. 
585). Roll out thinly; cut out of it four rounds of equal 
size ; place them on a baking-tin and bake them in a good 
oven. When they are done, place them on the board, one 
by the side of the other, and lightly put something on to 
press them. Spread upon each a mixture of vanilla cream 
(No. 550), prepared in advance, and half set; place the 
rounds one on the other, then cover the entire cake with 
the remainder of the cream ; sprinkle all with chopped 
pistachio-nuts. 

This cake can be varied by flavouring cream in different 
ways. 

623. Tea Cakes 

(Gateaux de plomb). 

Proportions: ^ lb. of flour, 6 oz. of butter, two yolks 
of eggs, one whole egg, 1 y? oz. of sugar, }£ P mt °f cream, 
grain of salt. Make the paste the same as for gateau de 
Milan (No. 612); let it rest for an instant. Roll out the 
paste to 1 inch in thickness ; cut it into small round cakes 
about 2 inches round in size ; brush them with yolk of egg ; 
mark them lightly on the surface with the point of a knife; 
bake in a warm oven. 



2(5o CAKES. 

624. Small Tea Rolls 

( Pt tits pain pour the'). 

Proportions : y lb. of sugar, y 2 lb. of flour, 3 oz. of 
butter, y lb. of almonds, one whole egg, grain of salt. 
Pound the almonds with the sugar ; add the egg, butter, 
and flour. When all is well mixed, form with the paste 
small rolls pointed at each end ; put on a tin and bake. 

625. Small Scotch Tea Cakes 
{Petit biscuits e'eossais). 

Beat up 1 pint of cream, add 1 y oz. of vanilla sugar, 
1 y 2 oz. of flour, four whites of eggs beaten. Warm a baking- 
tin, wax it, then rub it with a clean cloth. Put the mix- 
ture on through the forcing-bag (Nos. 531, 555) in the 
form of ladies' fingers ; shake the tin to flatten the cakes a 
little. Bake in a gentle oven. These biscuits become flat 
and crisp. 

626. 

(Petites flutes aux amandes). 

Proportions : 6 oz. of flour, 6 oz. of almonds, y 2 lb. of 
sugar, four or five whites of eggs. Mix in a basin the sugar 
with the whites of eggs, then add the flour and the almonds 
dried and chopped. With this paste form small flutes or 
sticks, place them on a baking-sheet buttered or waxed. 
Bake in a gentle oven. 

627. Waffles 
(Gnu/res). 

Proportions : y lb. of flour, y lb. of sugar (part of it 
to be vanilla sugar), a grain of salt, y 11). of butter, two 
whole eggs, one yolk, one liqueur-glass of brandy, a little 
warm water, y pint of cream. Mix all in a basin to a 



CAKES. 26l 

liquid paste ; beat well until quite creamy. Warm the 
irons ; butter them lightly ; pour into the middle a tea- 
spoonful of the mixture ; close the irons and cook over a 
clear fire on both sides. 

Note. — This is a delicious sweet, and well repays the 
little trouble at first ; the necessary irons are indispensable ; 
they can be procured at a good ironmonger's. The cakes 
should, when cooked, be quite flat and thin, like an ice 
wafer. 

628. 

{Cornets a la crane). 

Make them the same as above (No. 627). The moment 
they are taken from the irons roll them round a small 
wooden mould in the form of a cone, leave them an 
instant, take out the mould, and continue to form the rest. 
Before serving fill the cornets with whipped cream sweetened 
with vanilla sugar. 

629. 

{Fanchonnettes). 

With rich short crust or puff paste line some small 
buttered tart moulds : fill them three parts full with the 
mixture (No. 621); bake twenty-five minutes in a good 
oven. In the interval, with three whites of eggs and 3 oz. 
of sugar prepare a meringue paste ; place some on each 
tart ; smooth it to a point ; powder with sugar. Put them 
back in the oven for twelve minutes to colour the meringue. 

630. 

(Tarfekttes de Cremone). 

Proportions : 6 oz. of vanilla sugar, six yolks of eggs, 
three whites beaten, ]^ lb. of skinned almonds, one tablet 
of grated chocolate. Pound the almonds with a little water ; 
put them into a basin with the yolks and vanilla sugar ; 



262 CAKES. 

beat with a spoon for ten minutes; mix in delicately the 
beaten whites ; divide into two parts ; put the grated 
chocolate into one of them. Line twenty-four patty pans 
with paste — gateau de Milan (No. 612); half fill them 
with the white mixture, then finish them by adding the 
brown. Bake in a gentle oven, increasing the heat, from 
twenty-five to thirty minutes. 



631. Macaroons 

(Macarons). 

Proportions : J /> lb. of almonds peeled and dried in the 
oven, ]/ 2 lb. of powdered sugar, three or four whites oi 
one grated lemon. Pound the almonds, moistening them 
during the process with the whites of eggs. When they 
are reduced to a fine paste add the lemon and sugar ; work 
all perfectly. Form the macaroons by dropping pieces the 
size of a walnut upon a buttered baking-tin. Cook in a 
moderate oven until they have taken a beautiful tint. Let 
them cool before taking off the tin. 



632. Nougat. 

Proportions : ]/ 2 lb. of almonds, ]^ lb. of sugar, juice of 
a lemon. Peel the almonds, chop them but not too fine ; 
dry them at the entrance of the oven upon a baking sheet 
covered with white paper, leave them until they commence 
to take colour. Put the powdered sugar and lemon juice 
in a stewpan over a slow fire ; directly the sugar begins to 
turn yellow add to it the almonds ; stir all with a wooden 
spoon. Pour the mixture upon a baking-sheet or marble 
slab slightly oiled, then with a whole lemon flatten the 
nougat to the thickness of yi inch. Before it is completely 
cold cut in pieces in any form that may be desired. 



CAKES. 263 

633. Russian Cake 
(Galette Russe). 

Proportio?is : 6 oz. of sugar, 6 oz. of flour, 4 oz. of butter, 
3 oz. of almonds not peeled but chopped, 2}4 oz. of candied 
peel chopped, six whites of eggs. Beat up the butter until 
it is creamy ; add by degrees the sugar and whites of 
eggs ; then the chopped peel, the almonds, and the flour 
at the last. Take a small round piece of cardboard 
with a hole in the middle of 3 inches, place the cardboard 
upon a buttered baking-sheet, fill the empty space in the 
middle of it with a little of the paste, smooth it with a 
knife until it covers the entire space of the 3 inches ; move 
the cardboard to another side of the baking sheet, repeat 
the operation, and continue until the tin is fulL Bake in 
a moderate oven. 

634. Alg^riens. 

Roll out some puff paste to the thickness of ^5 inch ; cut 
out eighteen rounds with a cutter. Put on the board a 
handful of powdered sugar ; place a round of paste upon it ; 
with the rolling-pin roll this into a long shape ; place this 
on a baking-tin, the sugared side of the pastry uppermost. 
When they are all made, bake in a good oven until they are 
well coloured and glazed. 



INDEX. 



The references are to the recipes, not to pages. 



Algeriens, 634. 

Allumettes aux anchois, 378. 

Almond custard, 547. 

pudding, baked, 483. 

svujle, 491. 

sponge cake, 593. 
Alouettes, 339. 
Ambassadress soup, 4. 
Anchovy butter, 92, 93. 

sauce for fish, 71. 
Anguille d la tartare, 120. 
Apple charlotte, 526, 533. 

fritters, 508. 

sauce, 82. 

souffle, 486. 

tart, 521. 
Apples a la comtesse, 527. 

and macaroons, 529. 

buttered, 525. 

in a cage, 535. 

marmalade of, 530. 

to stew, 532. 

with cream, 531. 

with rice, 534. 
Apricot cream, 553. 

tart, 523. 
Apricots, compile of, 539. 
Artichauts a la lyonaise, 398. 

bouillis, 397. 
Artichoke bottoms, 399. 
Artichokes d la lyonaise, 398. 

boiled, 397. 
Asparagus, 392. 

tops, 393. 
Asperges en branches, 392. 
Aspic defoie gras, 312. 
Aubergines, fried, 438. 



A ubergines au gratin, 439. 

/rites, 438. 
Au beurre fondu, 140. 
Au pain frit, 141. 
Aux oignons frits, 142. 

Baba, 591. 

Baked almond pudding, 483. 
beans, 416. 
custard, 504. 
eggs, 356. 
trout, 108. 
Ballotines cle cuisses de poularde, 

301. 
Balls, veal, 266. 
Barley soup, 24. 

„ thick, 25. 
Batter for frying, 132. 

for frying fritters, 506. 
Beans, baked, 416. 
broad, 55. 

dried white, boiled, 412. 
French, 407. 

n d VMteliere, 411. 
ii and tomatoes, 54. 
Haricot, Breton fashion, 415. 
n French, sauted, 408. 
ii peasant fashion, 410. 
ii with onions, 409. 
white, in sauce, 413. 
ii puree of, 414. 
Becasse, 332. 

sur croute farcie, 333. 
Bechamel sauce, 98. 
Beef, boiled, 153. 

„ fried, 158. 

h in vinegar sauce, 1G4. 



266 



INDEX. 



Beef, boiled, mirolonof, 154. 
it with cheese, 155. 
braised, 165. 
Chateaubriand, 101. 
croquettes of, 162. 
fillet of, 167. 

n braised, 109. 

ii sauce poivrade, 178, 

17-.'. 
ii trimmings of, to em- 
ploy, 180. 
n with beamaise sauce, 

189. 
ii with lettuces, 421. 
ii with macaroni, 173. 
ii with marrow, 190. 
n with mushrooms, 171, 

192. 
ii with new potatoes, 

174. 
M with olives, 170. 
ii with rice, 177. 
ii with staffed mush- 
rooms, 172. 
ii with tomatoes, 436. 
i, with truffles, 191. 
ii with vegetables, 168, 
1 98 
hashed, 156, 157. 

ii with chestnuts, 159. 
ragout of, 166, 195. 
rissoles of, 161. 
steak and potatoes, 187. 
„ fried, 182. 
„ -rilled, 181. 

,, Hungarian, 186. 
n Russian, 188. 
ii with anchovy butter, 184. 
n with egg, 185. 
ii with parsley butter, 183. 
tea, concentrated, 17. 
Reelroot, salad of, 473. 
Ileignets d hi semantic, 513. 
de cerises, 511. 
de crime, 505. 
d'oranges, 507. 
de pic/ies, 510. 
depoires, 50!). 
de p 

soufflto, 512. 
sovJJUs aufromage, 376. 
fiiitcraves rouges pour salads, 473. 
flrurre d'anchois, 92. 
tFtcremsses, 27. 
noir, 138. 
Bj'leck d la motto cPhdtel, 183. 



Bifteck d la potle, 182. 
/", 185. 

/, 181. 
B\fteeks d la bonne femms, 187. 
d la hongroise, 186. 
d la russe, 188. 
au beurre d'anchoi 
Biscuit aux amandcs, 608. 

, 606. 
Biscuits aux pis/aches, 609. 

pelerines, 607. 
Black butter, 138. 
BlcmquetU de veau, 242. 
— emploi des rentes, 228. 

la casserole, 165. 
bouilli, 153. 

ii au tjratin, 155. 
ii en vinaigrette, 161. 
marine el frit, 158. 
. 157. 
Boiled artichokes, 397. 
beef, 153. 
„ fried, 158. 
ii in , 164. 

,i miroton of, 154. 
i, with cheese, 155. 

IllUSSel 

salmon, 110. 

tongue, caper sauce, 196. 
i'liilin- meat, directions for, p. 58. 
>l la vanille, 569. 
mousse nougat, 571. 
Bomhes, 565. 

vi ota 356. 
Bouchees, 271. 

d la rente, 273. 

aux crevetUs, aux huilrcs, aux 

1 18. 
de poisson, 117. 
Boudins de poisson aux crevettes, 

125. 
Boudins offish with prawns, 125. 
"' ■ proeenfale, 150. 
, 15. 
ft, 11. 
de veau, 18. 
Boulettes d la duchesse, 451. 
de poisson, 119. 

simpl rem placer les 

quenelles, 266. 
Brains, calves', 239. 

„ fried, 241, 242. 
ii in sauce, 240. 
sheep's, 214. 
Braised beef. 166. 
fillet of beef, 169. 



INDEX. 



267 



Braised leg of muttou, 203. 
ox tongue, 197. 
veal sweetbreads, 256. 
Bread fritters, 517. 

11 with cherries, 518. 
11 with pineapple, 520. 
•1 with strawberries, 
519. 
sauce, fried, 141. 
soup, 29. 
Breast of veal, stuffed, 225. 
Breasts of lamb grilled, 217. 
Brioche, 590. 
Brown sauce, 65. 
Brussel's sprouts in butter, 417. 
11 in sauce, 418. 
Bullock's heart, stewed, 202. 
Butter, black, 138. 
melted, 140. 
sauce, 84. 
Buttered apples, 525. 

Cabbage soup, 37. 

11 with rice, 38. 
white, salad of, 469. 
Cabbages German fashion, 443. 
red, 440. 
stuffed, 441. 
with bacon, 442. 
Cafe d la crime glace, 576. 
Cailles, 334. 

aux pelits pois, 335. 
Cake, almond sponge, 593. 
Geneva sponge, 600. 
German dough, 589. 
Russian, 633. 
sand, 601. 

sandwich, iced, 596. 
Savoy, 616. 

sponge, with meringue, 595. 
n with nuts, 594. 
Cakes, tea, 623. 

11 small Scotch, 625. 
Calf's feet with black butter, 246. 
head, Iried, 245. 

n stewed, 244. 
liver, 250. 

11 and mashed potatoes, 251. 
tongue, 247. 
Culvts' brains, 239. 

11 fried, 241, 242. 
ii in sauce, 240. 
tars, with mushrooms, 248. 
Canard aux navels, 321. 
aux olives, 319. 
aux pttils oignons, 320. 



Canard sauvage, 338. 
Caneton roll, 318. 
Cardons, 433. 

stewed with marrow, 434. 
Cardons d la moelle, 434. 
Cari de homard, 146. 
Carottes, 430. 

et petit pois, 432. 

glacecs, 431. 
Carrots and green peas, 432. 

glazed, 431. 

in white sauce, 430. 
Gary de poulct, 282. 
Cauliflower, 394. 

au gratin, 396. 

with fried crumbs, 395. 
Ceteris d ietuvee, 422. 

en branches, 423. 
Celery roots, stewed, 422. 

stick, 423. 
Cervelles de mouton, 214. 

de veau d I'oseille, 239. 

de veau en sauce, 240. 

/rites, 241. 

panees, 242. 
Champagne sorbet, 577. 
Champignons farcis, 44G. 
Charlotte, apple, 526, 533. 
Charlotte de pommes d la bourgeois*', 
526, 533. 

russe, 557. 

russe, exquise, 558. 
Chateaubriand, 194. 
Chaud-froid de poulct, 293. 
Cliau-froid de perdreau, 327. 
Cheese fritters, 376. 

melted, 379, 380. 
Cherries, compote of, 540. 
Cherry fritters, 511. 

pudding, 484. 

tart, 522. 
Chestnuts, glazed, 160. 

in cream, 555. 
Chicken broth for invalids, 11. 

patties, superior, 273. 
Chicoree el endive, 405. 
Chicory and endive, 405. 
Chocolate cream, 552. 

custard, 546. 

ice, 572. 

omelet, 497. 

pudding, 476. 

souffli, 488, 492. 
Choic-Jleur, 394. 

au gratin, 396. 

au pain frit, 395. 



268 



INDEX. 



Ckoux d FalUmande, I 18. 
au lard, 442, 

de liruxelles au beurre, 417. 
ti en sauce 418. 

rouges, 440. 
Clioux pastry, 588. 
Civet de lievrc, 340. 
Clear soup, 1. 

n d la prinlaniire, 3. 
Cod, salt, 139. 

de boeuf d I'Uouffec, 202. 
Coffee cream, 567. 

n iced, 576. 
custard, 500. 
CompOte d'abricots, 539. 
de cerises, 540. 
de coings, 544. 
de grosses /raises, 538. 
depiches, 541. 
de poires, 543. 
CompOte of apricots, 539. 
of cherries, 540. 
of peaches, 511. 
of raspberries, 542. 
of large strawberries, 538. 
of wild strawberrie 
Co/iqjOles de framboises, 542. 

de petites /raises, 537. 
Consomme d la julienne, 5. 
d Vambassaelrice, 4. 
d la printaniere, 3. 
Coguilles de poisson, 116. 

de viande au gratin, 163. 
Comets d la crime, 628. 
CCtelettes d'agneau d la purle de 
irons, 219. 
tfaaneau ri la Brunswick, 220. 
de/wmard d /" Windsor, 147. 
de mouton d la souoise, 209. 
ii grilles, 207. 

■i panees, 208. 

de poulet en c/umd/roid, 294. 
de veau, 232. 

ii en papilleiles. 
ii glacees aujus, 231. 
Oourt-bouiUon, 107. 
Crayfish butter, 27. 

soup, 26. 
Cream, apricot, 553. 
Chocolate 
coffee, 567. 

n iced. 576. 
fritters, 505. 
Italian, 549. 678. 
n iced, 575. 
orange, 551. 



Cream Ranee, 75. 
strawberry, 654. 
whipped, 646. 

Crime d I'italienne, 549. 

anglaise aux amandes, 517. 

ii aux macaroon 
au thl en petits pots, 502. 
aux/raises en petits pots, 503. 
bavaroise d la vanille, 550. 
ii d V orange, 551. 
ii au choculal, 552. 
ii aux al/ricols, 568. 
ii aux/raises, 554. 
/ouettie, 545. 
pour mettre dans le milieu du 

gdteau, 619. 
renversee au ca/i, 500. 

■i au caramtl, 501. 
lournle au chocolat, 54C. 
Cripes, 516. 
Crones dujapon, 465. 
Croquettes au riz, 515. 
aux amandes, 514. 
de becu/ 162. 
dc pomnies de lerrc, 453. 
de poulet. : 
Croquettes, almoud, 514. 
of beef, 162. 
of fowl, 296. 
of potatoes, 453. 
rice, 515. 

'raises, 519. 
520. 
au/romage, 871. 
aux cerises, 518. 
aua; champignons, 445. 
, 517. 
of fried bread for soups, 33. 
Cru.st, short, 579. 

for open tarts, 582. 
rich, 581. 
Cuisson du sucre, 536. 
Curried fowl, 282. 
Curry, lobster, 146. 
Custard, almond, 517. 
baked, 604. 
chocolate, 546. 
coffee, 50u. 
iced, 578. 

iramel, 501. 

strawberry, 503. 

."•02. 

vanilla, 550. 

Cutlets, fowl, in aspii 

lamb, witli chestnuts, 219 



INDEX. 



269 



Cutlets, lamb, with sprew, 220. 
lobster, 1-17. 
mutton, grilled, 207. 

u rolled in bread-crumbs, 

208. 
11 soubise sauce, 209. 
veal, glazed, 231. 
11 en papillotes, 233. 
11 panics, 232. 

Dinde farcie, 306. 

r6tie, 305. 
Dough cake, German, 589. 
Duck, wild, sauce for, 77. 

with olives, 319. 

with small onions, 320. 

with turnips, 321. 
Duckling, roast, 318. 
Dutch sauce, 70. 

Eels with mushrooms, 121. 
with tartar sauce, 120. 
Egg and lemon sauce, 74. 
iaked, 356. 
fried, 353. 

i, in oil, 355. 
hard, with anchovies, 351. 
in black butter, 357. 
in white sauce, 354. 
in sauce Robert, 358. 
in snow, 495. 
on a plate, 352. 
scrambled, 345. 

11 with asparagus, 347. 

11 with cheese, 34B. 

11 with green peas, 34S. 

„ with truffles, 349. 

snow, en surprise, 499. 
Staffed, with cheese, 370. 
to beat up white of, 133. 
with Italian paste, 360. 
with sweet herbs, 350. 
Emince de dinde, 307. 
Endive salad, 467. 
EntrecOles d la bearnaise, 189. 

d la moelle, 190. 
Entree of quenelles, 265. 
Epaule d'agneau aux oignons glacis, 
221. 
de mouton farcie, 205. 
Epinards d la nouette, 403. 

aujus, 404. 
Escalopes, 234. 

M ilanaises, 235. 

Faisan sur canape farci, 323. 



Fanchonnettts, 629. 
Fat cons de choux et chou farci, 441. 
Feves d I'huile, 55. 
Fdet aux pommes de terre nouvelles, 
174. 
de bxuf aux champignons, 171. 
11 aux champignons far- 

cis, 172. 
rr aux laitues farcies, 175, 

421. 
ti aux macaronis, 173. 
11 aux olives, 170. 
11 aux tomates farcies, 176, 

436. 
11 braise, sauce madere, 169. 
11 garni de risotto, YI7. 
11 garni jardiniere, 168. 
11 marine, sauce poivrade, 

178, 179. 
it pique r!iti, 167. 
da venaison, 342. 
Filets de poularde au supreme, 300. 
de sole d la Joinville, 136. 
11 marines en beignets, 131. 
11 routes, Paupiettes, 134. 
Fillet of beef, 167. 

11 braised, 169. 

11 sauce poivrade, 178, 

179. 
,1 trimmings of, to em- 
ploy, 180. 
,i with bearnaise sauce, 

189. 
11 with lettuces, 421. 
1, with macaroni, 173. 
11 with marrow, 190. 
11 with mushrooms, 171, 

192. 
11 with new potatoes, 

174. 
n with olives, 170. 
11 with rice, 177. 
11 with stuffed mush- 
rooms, 172. 
11 with tomatoes, 436. 
1, with truffles, 191. 
ti with vegetables, 168, 
193. 
of fowl, 300. 

of sole fried in batter, 131. 
11 rich, 136. 
„ stuffed, 134. 
of veal, stewed, 224. 
of venison, 342. 
Fish, boudins of, with prawns, 125. 
frying of, 106. 



270 



INDEX. 



Fish in a mould, 126. 
in shells, 116. 
mayonnaise of, 113. 
paste, panada for, 123. 
patties. 1 17. 

qui ilil/i-lnrat, 122. 

quenelles, 124. 

remains of, with cream, 114 
115. 

rissoles, 119. 
soup, 45. 
stock to boil, 107. 
to dress cold, 112. 
Flo n glace aa sucre dans un plat. 
504. * ' 

Flemish soup, 34. 
Fob de veau d la menagire, 251. 
■t savli', 250. 
etfresaure d'agneau, 223. 
Fob '/nis in aspic jelly. 812. 
Fonda d'arlichout 

'. -'380. 
Fowl ii la Stanley, 290. 
croquettes oi', 296. 
curried, 282. 
cutlets in aspic, 294. 
lil lets of, 300. 
fricassee of, 284. 

■i with rice, 285. 

galantine of, 286. 
grilled, 289. 
m aspic, 293. 
marengo, 280. 
mayonnaise of, 297. 
pdte for picnics, 303. 
p&lSof, 299. 

Pieclniontese fashion, 287, 288. 
quenelles of, in moulds, 304. 
ragodt of, u la duplomale, 238. 
1 . 277. 

ed in a stewpan, 278. 
Russian fashion, 291. 
Bouffli of, 302. 
soup, 6. 

stewed in red pepper, 2S1. 
stewed in twenty minutes 279 
stuffed with truffles, 298. 
thighs stuffed, 80L 
with rice, 283. 
with tarragon, 292. 
with truffle 
French Beans. Bee Beans. 
French bean salad, 471. 
Fresh vegetables, to cook, 406. 
■'•au d la cremc, 227. 
d I'oseillc, 226. 



Fricandeau of veal, 226. 

■i with cream, 227, 
Fncandelles, 230. 

284. 
■i en bordure, 285. 

Fricassee of fowl, 284. 

with rice, 285. 
Fried aubergines, 438. 
182. 
boiled beef, 158. 

sauce, 141. 
calf's head, 246. 
calves' brains, 241, 242. 
eggs. 

it in oil, 355. 
fillets of sole, in batter, 131. 
potatoes, 466. 

v, 457. 
salsify, 424. 
Fritters, apple, 508. 
bread. .".17. 

it with cherries, 518. 
n with pine-apple, 520. 

ii with strawbei i ; 
cheese. 876. 

cherry, 511. 

i. 505. 
Irving batter for, 506. 

■ , 607. 
peach, 510. 
pear, 509. 
semolina, 513. 
. 512. 
Frying offish or meats, 106. 
batter for, 132. 

ne de pnidrt. 2' ! 6. 
Galantine of fowl, 286. 

, 633. 
Game, sauce for, 77. 

», 272. 
'■ . 020. 

Bertha, 610. 
biscuit dc Sarnie, 616. 
de Milan, >il2. 613. 
frawj, ::,:- 621. 

Mascotte, 611. 
vdlle-feuilles, 622. 
moka, 618. 
polonais, 615. 
Soumroff, 614. 
St Bonort, 617. 
Gateau aux abricots, 523. 
aux cerises, 522. 
aux /raises meringn,', 524, 
aux pommes, 521. 






INDEX. 



27I 



O&teaux de plumb, 623. 

Guu/res, 627. 

Gelie d la macedoine de fruits, 564. 

d Uorange, 559. 

an citron, 560. 

au vin vieux, 561. 

aux framboises, 563. 

aux liqueurs, 562. 
Geneva sponge cake, 600. 
Genevese sauce, 73. 
German dough cake, 589. 
German soup, 7. 
Giblets, stewed, 311. 
Gigot de mouton braisS, 203. 

11 facon chevreuil, 
204. 
Glace d I'orange, 568. 
Glaces, 565. 

d la crime au cafe, 567. 

d la crime au vanillee, 566. 
Glaze, 61. 
Glazed carrots, 431. 

chestnuts, 160. 

oniot. 
Godivea 
Goose in jellv, 309. 

roast, 308. 

stuffed with apples, 310. 
Gouglaf d I'allemande, 589. 
Gravy, economical, 56. 

superior, 57. 

thickening for, 58. 
Green peas, French fashion, 401. 

11 with lettuces, 400. 
Green sauce for fish, 78, 91. 
Grenadines of veal, 249. 
Gmiadins de veau, 249. 
Grilled beefsteak, 181. 

breasts of lamb, 217. 

fowl, 289. 

herrings, mustard sauce, 128. 

mackerel, 137. 

mullets, 152. 

mutton cutlets, 207. 

pigeons, 315. 

salmon, 111. 

trout, 109. 
Grives, 336. 
Ground-rice souffle, 487. 

ITachis de boruf aux marrons, 159. 
Hare, pate of, 341. 

soup, 35. 

stewed, 340. 
Ilarengs frais, sauce moutarde, 
128. 



Haricot bean soup, 41. 

of mutton, 210. 

of veal, 236. 
Haricot de mauton, 210. 
Haricots d lapaysanne, 410. 

bland d la bretonne, 415. 

blancs en sauce, 413. 

blancs sees, 412. 

verts d Vanglaise, 407. 

verts d I'hSteliire, 411. 

verts et tomates, 21. 

verts sautes, i $. 

verts sautes aux oignons, 409. 
Hashed beef, 156, 157. 

11 with chestnuts, 159. 

turkey, 307. 
Herrings, grilled, mustard sauce. 

128. 
ITomard d Vamfrricaine, 144. 
Horse-radish sauce, 95, 96. 
Hungarian beefsteak, 186. 

Ice, chocolate, 572. 

orange, 568. 

vanilla cream, 566. 

,i with almonds, 571. 
Iced coffee cream, 576. 

custard, 573. 

Italian cream, 575. 

puddings, 565. 

punch, 574. 
Ices, 565. 
Indian corn, 390. 
Italian cream, 549, 578. 
11 iced, 575. 

pastes, soups of, 18. 
■1 dry soups of, 53. 

salad, 470. 

sauce, 100, 101. 

Jam omelet, 495. 
Japanese crones, 465. 
Jelly, lemon, 560. 

liqueur, 562. 

meat, 59. 

n to clear, 60. 

of mixed fruits, 564. 

orange, 559. 

raspberry, 563. 

wine, 561. 
Jerusalem artichoke soup, 14 
Julienne soup, 5. 

Kidneys, sheep's, 215. 

M sautes, 216. 
veal, stewed, 254. 



272 



INDEX. 



Ladies' fingers, 607. 
Lottva , 420. 

farcies, 421. 
romaincs, 419. 
Lamb, breasts of, grilled, 217. 
cutlets, wil 219. 

n with sprew, 220. 
fry, 223. 
shoulder of, with glazed onions, 

221. 
stewed, and green peas, 218. 
Langue de boauf braisee, 197. 

H sauce aitx cdpres, 

196. 
■■ sauce aux raisins de 
Corinthe, 198. 
de veau, 247. 
I.angues de moulon, 213. 

en gibelolte, I 
Larks, stewed, 339. 
Last year's birds, recipe for cooking, 

314. 
Leek soup, 39. 
Leeks, stewed, 427. 
Leg of mutton braised, 203. 

ii dressed as venison, 
204. 
Lemon jellv, 560. 
pudding, 480. 
Lentilles, 111. 
Lentils, 444. 
Lettuce salad, 466. 
Lettuces for garnishing, 421. 
stewed cos, 419. 
stuffed, 420. 
lAaii aub< urre, 64. 

av.e 
Liqueur jelly, 562. 
Liver, calf's, 250. 

with mashed potatoes, 251. 
i American fashion, 144. 
butter, 27. 
curry, 146. 
cutlets, 147. 
patties. 119. 
salad, 145. 

Macaroni au gratin, 384. 
Milanese fashion, 383. 
timbale of, 276, 385. 

i, with A«7<ameisauce, 3S6. 
With cheese, 381. 
with tomatoes, 382. 

. 383. 
aufromage, 381. 
au gratin, 384. 



Macaronis aux lomates, 382. 
Macarons, 631. 
.Macaroon custard, 548. 

tart, 597. 
Macaroons, 631. 
Mackerel, grilled. 137. 
Madeira sauce, 66. 
MaUre d'hijtel, 79. 

ii butter, 85. 
Malakoffs, 372. 
Maquereau grille, 137. 
Marengo, fowl, 280. 

i, 580. 
Marmalade of apples, 
Mashed potato 
Matelotte d'anguille, 121. 

de bouilli, 156. 
Mayonnaise of fish, 113. 
of fowl, 297. 
sauce, 80. 
Mayonnaise de poisson, 113. 

de poulel, '_ 
Meat scallops, 163. 
butter, 140. 
Meringue, apple, 528. 
strawberry tart, 524. 
irs ala crime, 606. 
Milanese scallops, 235. 
Milk sou]), 16. 
Miroton de. bo.uf, 154. 

f, 154. 
Mock turtle soup, 28. 
Mm iu salie, 189. 
M d la marintirc, 149. 

au nalurel, 148. 
Mousse aux ceufs, 573. 

''.- au chocolal, 572. 
simple aux /raises et autre* 
fruits, 570. 
Mousscline souffle", 489. 
Mousses, 565. 
MouUm d I" laitve, 206. 
Mull.ts, grilled, 162 

in wine, 151. 
Mushroom sauce (fresh mushrooms), 
69. 
■i (tinned mushrooms), 
68. 
Mushrooms on crusts, 445. 

stuffed, 416. 
Mussel-., boiled. 148. 

stewe 
Mutton cutlets, grilled, 207. 

H rolled in bread- 
crumb , 
n soubise sauce, 209. 



INDEX. 



2/3 



Mutton, haricot of, 210. 
leg of, braised, 203. 

venison, 204. 
pilaff of, 212. 
rageCU of, Egyptian, 211. 
shoulder of, staffed, 205. 
with lettuces, 206. 

Navarin, 180. 
. -428. 
ait caramel, 429. 
Kesselrode, 556. 
Nesselrode pudding, 556. 
Kid de marrons d la crime, 555. 
Nougat, 632. 
Nut pudding, 479. 

Oatmeal soup, 44. 
CEufs d la neige, 498. 

n en surprise, 499. 

d la tripe, 354. 
ait beurre noir, 357. 
au miroir, 353. 
aux nouilles, 360. 
brouilles aufromage, 346. 
ii ait naiurel, 315. 
ii aux petits pois, 348. 
ii aux pointes d'asperges, 

347. 
■i aux truffes, 349. 
durs aux anchois, 351. 
en cocottes aux fines herbes, 350. 
farcis aufromoge, 370. 
frits d Vhuile, 355. 
Robert, 35S. 
sur leplat, 352. 
Oie aux pommes, 310. 
en daubefroide, 309. 
rdtie, 308. 
Oiqnons glacis, 222. 
Olives, veal, 200. 

„ glazed, 259. 
Omelet, 361, 496. 
chocolate, 497. 
jam, 495. 
souffle, 493. 

ii ait rhum, 494. 
with asparagus, 365. 
with cheese, 364. 
with ham, 362. 
wilh kidneys, 369. 
with mushrooms, 366. 
with sweet herbs, 363. 
with tomatoes, 369. 
with truffles, 367. 
Omelette d la bouryeoise, 361 



Omelette au chocolate, 497. 

aufromay. 

auj'.tmbom, 362. 

aux champignons, 366. 

aita; confitures, 495. 

aux fines herbes, 363. 

aux pointes d'asperges, 365. 

aux rognons, 367. 

aux tomates, 369. 

aux truffles, 367. 

soufflie, 493. 

ii au rhum, 494. 
Onion sance, for cod, 42. 

soup, 30. 
Onions, glazed, 222. 
Orange cream, 551. 

fritters. 507. 

ice, 568. 

jelly, 559. 

pudding, 477. 
Oreillons de veau garnis, 248. 
Oseille, 43f . 
Ox-foot soup, 9. 
Oyster patties, 118. 

Pain defoie de veau, 253. 

depoisson d la crime, 126. 
Panada for fish-paste, 123. 
Pancakes, 516. 
Parsley butter, 79, 85. 
Partridge in aspic, 327. 

roast, 324. 
Partridges, cold pate of, 331. 

salmi of, 32'5. 

stewed with cabbages, 328. 

terrine or pdte of, 330. 

timbale of, 329. 
Paste for cold patties, 581. 

for veal pie, 262. 

puff, 584, 585. 
ii commoner, 587. 
ii made with suet, 586. 

suet or lard, 583. 
Pastry, choux, 588. 
Pdte for picnics, 303. 

of fowl, 299. 

of hare, 341. 

of partridges, 330. 

cold, 331. 

of pigeons, 314. 
Pdte d choux, 588. 

dfrire, 132. 

d p&tefroid, 581. 

d quenelles depoisson, 122. 

brisie, 579. 

ii d la graisse, 583. 



274 



INDEX. 



Pali brisee au men, 582. 
„ fine, 580. 

dcmi-feuilletie, 58". 

de poulet d Vcmporlrr, 303. 

de veau en terrine, 275. 

feuilletee, C 

ii d la graisse de bceuf, 
586. 

froid de Ucasses, 330, 337. 

froid de perdreaux, 331. 

froid de veau d la geUe, 274. 

ou farce a quenelles de veau, 
264. 
Patties, fish, 117. 

lobster, oyster, or shrimp, 118. 

superior chicken, 273. 

veal, 229, 271. 
,i dressing for, 263. 
Paupieltes de veau, 260. 
Peach fritters, 510. 
Peaches, compole of, 541. 
Pear fritters, 509. 
Pears, stewed, 543. 
Perdreau rbli, 324. 
Perdrix aux choux, 328. 
Petit biscuits ecossais, 625. 
Petites flutes aux amandes, 626. 

timbales d la Talleyrand, 304. 

truites a la Voltaire, 108. 
ii au beurrc a la mcuniere, 
109. 
Petits fricandeaux a la genevoise, 
259. 

pain pour the, 624. 

pat ils aujus, 263. 

pates de veau, 229. 

pois a lafrancaise, 401. 

i, aux lailues, 400. 

ii conserves, 402. 

Pheasant, roast, on toast, 323. 

Pie, veal, cold, with jelly, 274. 

de godiveau, 261. 

n paste for, 262. 

en cocolle, 27 5. 
Pieds de veau au beurre noir, 246. 
Pigeons, grilled, 315. 

pate of, 314. 

st. v., .1 with olives, 317. 

stuffed, 313. 

with green peas, 316. 
Pigeons d la crapaudine, 315. 

aux petits pois, 316. . 

farcis, 313. 
Pilaff of mutton, 212. 
Pilau, 389. 
Pilau de mouton d I'orienlale, 212. 



. 322. 
Pintail, 322. 
Pointa d'asperges, 393. 
Poireaux, 427. 

Poisson d la creme gratin, 114, 11.1. 
Pot trine de veaufarcie, 226. 
Poitrines il'agneau griUees, 217. 
Polenta, 

au Parmesan, 391. 
Polenta with cheese, 391. 
Pommes d la Chantilty, 531. 
d la comtesse, 527. 
d la creole, 534. 
au beurre, 525. 
en cage, 535. 
madame, 529. 
meringuecs, 528. 
Pommes de terre d la genevoi.ie, 459. 
ii d laltemande, 4 19. 
ii d la mailre d'/iOtel, 

455. 
it d I'iniciennc, 463. 
n d la weslphalienne 

4-;o. 

ii farcies, 461. 

ii frites, 456. 

ii r6lies, 458. 

ii sautees crws, 448. 

ii siiufflees, 457. 
Potage d la semoule, 20. 

re, 35. 
au riz, 22, 23. 
au tapioca, 19. 
auxpatis d'Jtalii', 18. 
Bisque. 26. 
crMe d'orge, 25. 
</<■ volaille, 6. 
fausse tortue, 28. 
Flamand, 34. 
or ge parte, 21. 

velours, 32. 
Potato boolettes, i" !. 

mould, 452. 

ramequins, 464. 

salad, 472. 

soup, 40. 
Potatoes ci Vancienne, 4C3. 

croquettes of, 453 

fried, 456. 

ii soujltes, 457. 

German fashion, 449. 

in butter, 448. 

mailre d'Mtel, 455. 

mashed, 161. 

roasted in the stewpan, 458. 



INDEX. 



2/5 



Potatoes stewed, 459. 

stuffed, 161. 

ii chopped meat for, 462. 

Westphalian fashion, 460. 
Pot-au-1'eu, 12. 
Potted peas, 402. 
Pouding d la semoide, 474. 

ii ii fruid, 475. 

d la vanille, 481. 

au chocolat, 476. 

au citron, 480. 

au tapioca, 482. 

aux amandes grillees, 483. 

aux cerises dans un plat, 4S4. 

aux noisettes, 479. 

souffle d Vorange, 477. 

viennois, 47S. 
I'oulet d la casserole, 278. 

d la Pifmcmlaise, 287, 288. 

d la Stanley, 290. 

d Vestragon, 262. 

au riz, 283. 

Dem.idojffr'&l. 

grille, 289. 

r<!<j au/our, 27, . 

iOM<e <J la minute, 279. 
ii au paprika, 281. 
Poultry roasted in a stewpan, 298. 

sauce for, 77. 
Prawn butter, 27. 

sauce, 99. 
Pudding, baked almond, 483. 

cherry, 484. 

chocolate, 476. 

lemon, 480. 

Nesselrode, 556. 

nut, 479. 

orange, 477. 

semolina. 474. 

„ cold, 475. 

tapioca, 482. 

vanilla, 481. 

Viennese, 478. 
Puddings, iced, 565. 

vanilla cream, 569. 
Puff paste, 584, 585. 

ii commoner, 587. 
ii made with suet or lard, 
586. 
Pumpkin soup, 43. 
Punch glace d la romaine, 574. 
Punch, iced, 574. 
Puree d'artichauts, 14. 

de haricots blancs garniture, 
414. 

de pommes de terre, 451. 



Quails, roast, 334. 

with green peas, 335. 
Quenelles de/oie d la moelle, 252. 

de poisson, 124. 

pour entrees, 265. 
Quenelle-meat, fish, 122. 

of veal, 264. 
Quenelles, fish, 124. 

entrSe of, 265. 

for soup, 36. 

for vol-au-vent, 267. 

of fowl, in moulds, 304. 

of liver, 252. 
Quinces, stewed, 544. 

Rabbit stewed brown, 343. 
Ragout d'abatis d la ch/ipolata. 
311. 
d'agneau aim pelils pois, 218. 
de bozuf, 166. 

n d la portugaise, 195. 
de mmilon d V Eyyptienne, 211. 
de veau, 236. 
Mplomate, 238. 
Financiere, 237. 

of beef, 166, 195. 
of fowl, d la Diplomate, 238. 
of mutton, Egyptian, 211. 
of veal, d la Financiere, 237. 
Ilamequins au/romage, 373. 
au plat, 375. 
de pommes de'Jerre, 464. 
en pet its pdtes, 374. 
Raspberries, compote of, 542. 
Raspberry jelly, 563. 
Rice, 49, 387. 

and peas, 51, 52. 
and tomatoes, 48. 

n Spanish recipe 

for, 50. 
Milanese fashion, 49. 
soup, 22. 

ii thick, 23. 
Ris de veau, 255. 

■■ d la Saint Cloud, 257. 
ii au sauce blanche, 258. 
ii rGtis et braises, 256. 
Risotto, 387. 

d la Milanaise, 50. 
Rissoles de banif, 161. 
Rissoles, fish, 119. 

of beef, 161. 
Riz d la persane, 389. 
aux tomales, 48. 

ii d V Espagnole, 51. 
et petils pois, 52. 



276 



INDEX. 



Roast duckling, 318. 
fowl, 277, 278. 

gOOSc. 

partridge, 32 1. 

pheasant 011 toast, 323. 

quails, 334. 

snipe, 332. 

turkey, 305. 

wild duck, 338. 
Roasted potatoes, -158. 
Rognons de moulvn d la hrochelle, 
215. 
11 sautes, 216. 

sautes, 254. 
Rouelles de veau d la bourgeoise, 

224 
Rougets au vin blanr, 151, 

grilles, 152. 
Russian beefsteak, 188. 

sake, 633. 

Sabayon au vin, 578. 

en moule glace, 575. 
Salad, endive, 4'i7. 

French bean, 471. 

in cream sauce, 468. 

Italian, 470. 

lettuce, 466. 

lobster, 145. 

of beetroot, 473. 

of white cabbage, 469. 

potato, 472. 
Saiade d la crime, 468. 

ait chou blanc, 469. 

de chicoree amere, 467. 

de haricots verts, 471. 

de homard, 145. 

de pomme de terre, 472. 

de rt/maine, 466. 

ilalienne, 470. 
Salmi of patridges, 325. 

of snipe, 826. 
Salmis de becasscs, 326. 

de perdreauai, 325. 
Salmon, boiled, 110. 

grilled, 111. 
Salsifis au velonti, 425. 

en vinaigrette, 126. 

frits, 424. 
Salsify, fried, 421. 

in vinaigrette sauce, 426. 

in white sauoe, 425. 
Salt tongue and currant sauce, 19S. 
Sand cake, 601. 
Sandwich cake, iced, 596. 

rolls, 606. 



tncliovy butter, 92, 98. 
anchor \ , for fish, 71. 
apple, 82. 

72. 

bread, fried, 141. 
brow 

butt. 

ii butter, 27. 
cream, 75. 

Dutch, 70. 

egg and Lemon, 7 1. 

poultry, 
and wild duck, 77. 
Qenovese, 73. 
grteu, for Hill, 78, 91. 
horse-radish, 95, 96. 
Italian, 100, 101. 

r butter, 27. 

madeira, 66. 
mayonnaise, 80. 
mushroom (fresh mushrooms), 
69. 
ti (tinned mushrooms), 

onion, for rod, 1 12. 
parsley butter, 78 
pimianti , 86, > v 7. 

rode, 102 

11 with cream, 103. 
prawn, 9". 
prawn butter, 27. 
remarks on, 105. 
. 76. 

shrimp, '.'1'. 
shrimp butt. 
Tartar, 81. 
tomato, 88. 

ti (preserved tomatoes), 

89. 
11 Spanish fashion, 90. 
vinaigrette, 97. 
whit. 

11 for vegetables, 104. 
with olives, 67. 
Satice d I'ilalienne, 100, 101. 
d la crime, 75. 
d I'auf et an citron, 71. 
au beurre, 84. 
aux champignons de conserve, 

68. 
aux champignons frais, 69. 
aux crenelles, 99. 

. 67. 
aux pommes, 82. 






tNDEX. 



277 



Sauce aux lomales fraicht 

aiuc tomates emtentes, 89. 
btarnaise, 72. 

blanche, 104. 
bourgeoise, 77. 
brum, 65. 
d'anchms, 71. 
ffcnevoise, 73. 
hollandaise, 70. 
madire, 66. 
wiaWre d'hdlel chaude, 83. 

raifu*', 95. 

11 aw vinaigre, 96. 
remoulade, 76. 
iartare, 81. 

lomate a Vespagnole, 90. 
rerte, 78. 
■Saw)H«?i .sai/ce cl to genevoise, 110. 
Savarin, 592. 
Savoy cake, 616. 
Scallops, meat, 163. 
Milanese. "235. 
of veal, 234. 
Scrambled eggs, 345. 

11 with asparagus, 

347. 
11 with cheese, 346. 
11 with green peas, 

H4S. 
„ with truffles, 349. 
Semolina fritters, 513. 
pudding, 474- 

„ cold, 475. 
souffle, 485. 
soup, 20. 

„ thick. 21. 
Sheep's brains, 214. 
kidneys, 215. 

n sautes, 216. 
tongues, 213. 
Short crust, 579. 

11 for open tarts, 582. 
•1 rich, 580. 
Shoulder of lamb, with glazed 
onions, 221. 
of mutton, stuffed, 205. 
Shrimp butter. 27. 
patties, 118. 
sauce, 99. 
Snipe on toast, 333. 
salmi of, 326. 
to roast, 332. 
Soldiers' soup, 31. 
Soles d la normande, 135. 
au beurre, 129. 



Soles au vin hlanc, 130. 
Soles, fillets of, fried in batter, 131. 
.. rich, 136. 

stuffed, 134. 

in white wine, 130. 

Xnrmandv fashion, 135. 

with butter, 129. 
Sorbet au chamjiagne, 577. 
Sorrel, 43. 

soup, 47. 
Smiffle, almond, 491. 

appl. 

chocolate, 48S. 492. 

fritter.-. 512, 

ground-rice, 4S7. 

mousseline, 4S9. 

of fowl, 302. 

omelet, 493. 

omelette au rhum, 494. 

semolina, 485. 

Vanilla, 490. 

iajieur de riz, 487. 

d la senwide, 485, 

d la xanille, 490. 

au chocolat, 4S8, 492. 

auxpomme d la russe, 486. 

dans un plat, 377. 

de volatile en petiles caisscs, 
302. 

mousseline, 4S9. 

praline, 491. 
Soup, ambassadress, 4. 

bread, 29. 

cabba. 

11 with rice, 38. 

chicken broth, for invalids, 11. 

clear, d la printaniere, 3. 
11 stock for, 1. 

crayfish, 26. 

croutons of fried bread for, 33. 

fish, 45. 

Flemish, 34. 

fowl, 6. 

German, 7. 

hare, 35. 

haricot bean, 41. 

Jerusalem artichoke, 14. 

Julienne, 5. 

leek, 39. 

milk, 46. 

mock turtle, 28. 

oatmeal, 44. 

of various Italian pastes, 18. 

onion, 30. 

ox-foot, 9. 

pearl-barley, 24. 



278 



INDEX. 






Soup, pearl-barley, thick, 26. 
potato, 40. 
pot-aa-feu, 12. 

pumpkin, 13. 

quenelles for, 30. 

rice, 22. 
„ thick, 23. 
na, 20. 

thick, 21. 

Boldiera', 31. 

sorrel, 47. 

stock for, 15, 16. 

tapioca, 19. 

tomato, 10. 

turnip, VI. 

real stock, 13. 
ilile, 8. 
t, 32. 
Soujif d la balaille, 31. 

d In courge, 43. 

allemande, 7. 

d Voiijnon, 33. 

d I'oseille, 47. 

au groan, 44. 

au lait, 46. 

au pain, 29. 

,<!/ poitson, 45. 

aux choux, 37. 

„ woec ri~, 88, 

aux A ,11. 

aMx Ugumes, 8. 

a «a; navets, 42. 

auxpoireaux, 39. 

ai« pommes de terre, 40. 
inmates, 10. 

(/, pied i/V /"/ /;/', ;t. 
Spinach in brown butter, 1 

with gravy, 404. 
Sponge cake, almond, 593. 
1, 600. 

with meringue, 595. 

with nuts, 594. 
Stewed apples, 533. 

bullock's heart, 202. 

call's head, 244. 

cardons, with marrow, 434. 

celery roots, 422. 

cos lettuces, 419. 

tillet of veal, 224. 

fowl, 279. 

11 in red pepper, 281. 

giblets, 311. 

hare, 340. 

lamb and green peas, 218. 

larks, 339. 

leeks, 427. 



Stewed mussels, 1 19. 

partridges, with cabbage, 328. 

I--, with olives, 317. 

potatoes, 469. 

quino 

rabbit, 343. 

tomatoes, 435. 

turnips, 429. 
Stock, common economical, 16. 

for clear soup, 1. 

for soups, 1 6. 

to boil fish, 107. 

to eh 

veal, 13. 
Strawberries, compGte of lai 

„ of wild, 537. 
Strawberry cream, 554. 

custard, 503. 

mousse, 570. 

tart meringue, 524. 
Stuffed breast of veal, 'J'J5. 

cabbages, 441. 

eggs (with cheese), 370. 
with truffles, 298. 
thighs, SOL 

lettuces, 120. 

mushrooms, 446. 

pigeons, 818. 

potatoes, 461. 

shoulder of mutton, 205. 

tomatoes, 130. 

turkey, 306. 
Sugar, to prepare, for syrup 

real, d la Saint Cloud 
257. 

braised, 266, 

in white sauce, 258. 

to prepare, 255. 

Tapioca pudding, 482. 
tp, 19. 

,pple, 521. 
apricot 

cherry, 522. 

noon, 597. 
strawberry, meringue, 524. 
Tartar sauce, 81. 

'■ v tie Oremonc, 030. 
Tea cakr 

„ small Scotch, 025. 
custards, 502. 
rolls, small, 624. 
Tcrrine or pale of partridges, 330. 
Terrine de liivc 

de perdreaux, 330. 



INDEX. 



279 



Terrine de pigeons, 314. 

Tile de vcau a divcrses sauces, 244. 

„ /rite, 245. 
Thickeninsr, butter, 64. 

with eggs, 63. 
Thickenings and sauces, 58, 62. 
Timbale d la Milanaise, 276. 
de macaronis, 385. 

n d la bechamel, 

386. 
de perdreaux d la legente, 

329. 
de. pigeons aux olives. 317. 
de pommes de terre, 452. 
depoulets aux nouilles, 299. 
de risotto, 38S. 
Timbale of liver, 253. 
of macaroni, 276. 
of partridges, 329. 
Tomates farcies, 436. 

sautees d la provencale, 435. 
Tomato sauce, 88. 

n (preserved tomatoes), 

89. 
11 Spanish fashion, 90. 
soup, 10. 
Tomatoes, stewed, 435. 

staffed, 436. 
Tongue, boiled, caper sauce, 196. 
braised, 197. 
calfs, 247. 

salt, and current sauce, 198. 
sheep's, 213. 
Totines de pommes de terre, 450. 
Tournedos d la creme, 193. 

sautes aux champignons, 192 
sautes aux tmffes, 191. 
Tourte d I'eau, 597. 
au 2>ain noir, 598. 
biscuit au beurre, 599. 
11 au punch, 596. 
n aux amandes, 593. 
it aux noisettes, 594. 
11 mousseline, 002. 
de Geneve, 600. 
de godiveau, 261. 
de sable, 601. 
manquee, 603. 
meringuee, 595. 
Tranches de saumon grillees sauce 

succulante, 111. 
Tripe, 199. 

Italian fashion, 201. 
Lyons fashion, 200. 

la lyonnaise, 200. 
d la pouletle, 199. 



d Uilalicvnc, 201. 
Trout, baked, 108. 

grilled in butter, 109. . 
a la sei-vietie, 447. 
Truffles, 447. 

\fomay, 127. 
Turbot with mushrooms, 127. 
Turkey, hashed, 307. 
roast, 305. 
stuffed, 306. 
Turnip soup, 42. 
Turnips in white sauce, 428. 
stewed in butter, 429. 

Vacherin aux amandes d la creme, 

604. 
Vanilla cream pudding, 569. 
cream ice, 566. 
custard, 550. 
ice, with almonds, 571. 
pudding, 481. 
souffle, 490. 
Veal balls, 266. 

breasts of, stuffed, 225. 
cutlets en papillotes, 233. 
„ glazed, 231. 
n panies, 232. 
fillet of, stewed, 224. 
fricandeau of, 226. 

11 11 with cream, 227. 

fricandelles, 230. 
haricot of, 236. 
kidneys, stewed, 254. 
liver, quenelles of, 252. 
„ timbale of, 253. 
olives, 260. 

.. glazed, 259. 
patties, 229, 271. 

11 dressing for, 272. 
„ small, 263. 
pie, cold, with jelly, 274. 
ti de godiveau, 261. 
11 en cocotle, 275. 
11 paste for, 262. 
quenelle meat of, 264. 

'•t of, li la A'aianciere, 
237. 
remains of, to dress, 228. 
scallops of, 234. 

11 Milanese, 235. 
stock, 13. 

sweetbreads, d la Saint Cloud, 
257. 
11 braised, 256. 

H inwhitesauce.258. 

11 to prepare, ^55. 



>So 



INDEX. 



ble soup, 8. 

Velvet BOOP, 32. 

Venison, fillets of, 342. 
Viennese pudding, -178. 
Vinaigrette sai 
Volatile <> la M ■ tujo, 280. 
a la Pfrifford, 295. 

Vol-au-vent, 268. 



mi i d la mariniire, 270. 
garniture for, 269. 
!ei foi . 267. 

. C27. 
White sauce, 83. 

i, for vegetables, 104. 
Wild duck, roast, 338. 
Wine jelly, 561. 



pristki) nv wrui.wi in tCKWOOD ant> sons 












[i .' i. 




: . . . . 




Iljljijijl 































