Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



CLAUDE FOLEY, steward. 



Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Culinary Collection 

From the Collection of 
Sophie Coe 



I 



L* 



r 



-— _4 



/ 



2C- 



V. 



N 



VOLUMB 2 07 THB *'OVSK AND BANGB" SEBIXS. 



->HOTEL-> 



MEAT COOKING 



GomprlBlzig HdIbI and RBstaiirant Fish and DystBr Cooking, How to 
Cut MeatSj and SoupB, EntrBBB end Bills of FarBi 



^■1 



■T 



Jessup Whitehead. 



CHICAGO: 
Jsssup Whitehead & Co., Publishers. 

1901. 



-J * • , 






1 

t 



I 

« 



Entered acccnrdlnj; to Act o£ Congress, 
In the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, IK €• 

Right of Translation reserved. 



/• 



Co<^ 



• "■. i'^ ■■ '' 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



THE present volume, as will be at once apparent to the reader who 
glances at the numbers of receipts, constitutes a part of an AMERICAN 
Hotel Cook Book that is being published serially; the preceding parts 
bound together form the volume called the AMERICAN PASTRY CoOK that 
was published a year ago, at two dollars. That volume has met with a very 
encouraging degree of success, so that a second edition has become necessary, 
and the sales have steadily increased as the merits of the work became better 
' known. 

In the meantime, the most numerous and frequent inquiries have been 
received for instructions how to cook oysters and how to cut meats, questions 
which this book answers in a most thorough manner. Instructions for meat 
cutting, as practiced by hotel cooks, have never before been put in print, it is 
no wonder, therefore, that the demand for them has been urgent; and almost 
the same thing might be said of oyster cooking and all the other matters so 
far as regards hotel and restaurant practice, for the present is the first endeavor 
ever put forth to describe the conditions that really exist in hotels and make 
the cooking directions conform to them and not to a set of strange condition?* 
that exist somewhere a long way off. 

The merit most particularly claimed for the entire series is the reliable 
character of the directions, which offer to any intelligent person a chance to 
learn a trade that is an exceedingly good one for those who have the capacity 
to become skillful in it. 



SECOND EDITION. 



Since the above was first printed another part has been supplied, the 
Hotel Book of Soups, Entrees and Bills of Fare, which adds con- 
siderably to the value of this volume. It is the intention, when the series is 
entirely complete, to bind the whole in one large book, to be called the 

American Cook. 



i A- 



NOTES TO THE FOURTH EDITION. 



The pleasing necessity having arisen of print- 
ing a new. edition of Hotel MtU CooHngy which 
will bring it up nearly even with the American 
Pastry Cook^ although it is a year or two 
younger, I feel bound to return a word of 
thanks for the liberal patronage and support 
thus far accorded me by the hotel fraternity in 
this endeavor to produce a set of books partic- 
ularly suited to their wants. It might not be 
worth while to make any fuss about a new 
issue of any book intended for the unconcerned 
public in general, but amongst us, as a class, 
Ihere is a sort of fellowship which makes itself 
felt when there is occasion for it, and in pen- 
ning these lines I feel that I am writing to a 
great number whom I have reason to regard as 
personal friends, and these will surely be inter- 
ested in a few explanations now to be given. 
Sometimes I have had it in mind to write the 
story of a book — of these two books — but as 
that may never be carried out, it may be as well 
stated here that when the Pastry Cook (which is 
the first volume) was first begun, it was gener- 
ally regarded as the height of folly, the most 
visionary notion possible, to think that hotel 
workers — hotel cooks — would ever buy books 
enough to pay for the printing. I believed 
differently, knowing my fellow workers better, 
and now cannot resist the opportunity of calling 
attention to the results; It is true, of course, 
that the first volume was refused by the pub- 
lishers, and on the grounds stated above; how- 
ever, they were right and it was fortunate that 
it was refused, for it was then a dry and tedious 
book, which went into the most minute details 
with too much care ; it had to be written over 
again and was greatly changed before it was 
finally issued in book form. These two vol- 
umes are in reality one t>ook; the pastry part is 
first, instead of last, as all other cook books 
have it, because circumstances formed it that 
way. There was most need for a hotel pastry 
book, for there was no such book then in ex- 
Utence — plenty of confectionery, baking and 
domestic books, but nothing specially for hotel 
pastry cooks, and there was no opposition to be 
encountered in that line. It required more 
daring and combativeness to issue this, the first 
work on American meat cooking, intended for 
men coo)^s, and, not being of a contentious dis- 
position, I deferred it till the last. The " salads 



and cold dishes" are in the first volume for 
much the same cause. Hotel methods and 
hotel bills of fare are considerably changed 
from what they were ten years ago, and it it 
gratifying to observe that there is much less 
sham and pretense about our business than 
there used to be, less of dishing a dozen foreign 
entrees with great names all out of the same 
pot and a dozen different sorts of game all 
carved off the same leg of venison, and there it 
more plain language and sincerity and better 
cooking. 

Brown Gravy and Espagnole.— One of the 
hardest things to learn without practical ex- 
ample seems to be the making of good pan 
gravy. Every cook, and every one who wants 
to be a cook, should practice making both 
espagnole sauce, as directed in Creole Cookery in 
the latter part of this book, and also the com- 
mon favorite brown pan gravy in the roast 
meat pans. Some old cooks use espagnole to 
a ridiculous extreme ; they get so in the habit 
that they will scarcely let anything g^ into the 
dining room without covering it with this 
sauce, and, having a saucepanful of it ready, 
they make almost as many different dishes out 
of it as cooks used to dish entrees out of one 
pot It is useful in its place, but the greater 
number of strange people who come to the 
hotels dislike the taste. Make it in small 
quantities; use it reasonably, instead of using 
so much butter for gravy and seasoning, but 
not for everything. The grease in the roast 
meat pans Is not gravy. I{ you skim that off 
and thicken the gravy that is under it that will 
be of some use, but it is not perfect; the right 
way is to bake the gravy pan until the watery 
part is all dried out, then the fat is clear as oil 
and can be poured off to the last drop, and the 
light brown coating that sticks to the pan is th» 
real gravy that has dripped out of the meal 
while roasting. Let this be a medium browi| 
color, then pour a dipperful of water to it} 
thicken it slightly with flour or starch, and nai 
it through a fine strainer. This, if of a good 
color and not too salt, is the real principal part 
of espagnole, but without Its high flavor. II 
you add some strained tomatoes to it, you have 
a sauce nearly the same as espagnole and 
that is more useful in cooking for the general 
public. 



THB AMEBICAN OCX)K. 



Some Common Errors in Cooking Meat.— 

It is one of the leading principles of American 
as also of English cookery that cooked meat, 
especially roasted meat, is at its best only when 
it is just done, and is spoiled If allowed to cool 
and afterwards warmed up again* But a great 
many old-style cooks make a regular practice of 
cooking their meats as early as they possibly 
can, and then set them around anywhere ; they 
roast chickens and turkeys, and actually let 
them get cold, so that they may be easier to 
carve ; they cut them up at leisure an hour or 
two before dinner, and set the panful of pieces 
away in any convenient corner, and if we say a 
word in remonstrance they reply: "Oh, that 
will be all right! I put the piece of meat on the 
dish and pour hot gravy over it, and it*s warm 
enough.'' Cooks who do that way evidently 
have no epicurean taste of their own ; they are 
not of the sort called born cooks ; they do not 
know what the meat loses in flavor by being 
treated that way, and there is not much use in 
trying to explain to them. They cannot make 
any sauce or gravy that can equal the fine flavor 
of the outside of roasted meat when it first 
leaves the fire. When Brillat Savarin wrote 
** Cooks are bom, not made, but it requires 
genius to roast,'' it is very likely that he had just 
been struck with a piping hot roast promptly 
sent in from the ratisseriey different from his 
usual run of sauced and lukewarm meats, and he 
thought that was the work of ** genius" which 
was only a lucky accident. Instead of the 
meats being roasted first, the range being re- 
quired afterwards for pastry or other things, let 
these come in first; have the meats ready, but do 
not put them in to cook until it is late enough 
for them only to get done by dinner time. 

Seasoning Beeflsteaks.— Have fine salt and 
pepper mi}t^ed together and dredge a little on 
each steak and chop after it is broiled, not be- 
fore. It is commonly believed that to salt 
meat before broiling makes it dry and hard. 
The way generally in vogue In the high-pricec 
hotels, instead of the above plain seasoning, is 
to have a bowl of fresh butter with some finely 
minced parsley and some lemon juice stirred 
into it, soft but not melted, and spread a little 
of that on each hot steak or chop as it leaves 
the grill. That is cold mailre (Thoiel sauce, 
and all those steaks therefore a la maitre 
d'hOtel. 

Alx>at Eggs. — "Country scrambled" eggs 
are but stirred about in the frying pan while 
cooking; the French cook's scrambled eggs are 
beaten up with a little milk, then stirred about 
in the pan till cooked, like a soft omelet with- 
out" any brown color. There are conflicting 
ideas about omelets, many cooks in the best 



hotels making them without adding milk be* 
cause they are tougher and easier to make up 
quickly that way ; but the addition of a spoon- 
ful of milk makes the omelet short and tender, 
and, consequently, better eating. Some think 
that salt added to the eggs before cooking 
makes the omelet heavy and they use none ; a 
more likely cause of heaviness is too much 
beating of the eggs; it makes them rise in the 
pan, but they fall again of their own weight 
before they reach the table. It is best to beat 
the eggs only just enough to mix them thor- 
oughly. A most useful hint for cooking cg^s 
in haste for a crowd, such as a party of excur- 
sionists or summer resorters, who ail come in 
at once, will be found in " steamed scrambled 
eggs" on page 304. 

Practice Salad-making. — Young cooks who 
commence and learn in small hotels — ^as the 
majority must — have but little chance to learn 
to make good salads from the simple fact that 
salads* are not among the common popular 
dishes, and the average public seldom seems 
to think of them. Then, when the cook is 
promoted, after a while, to work in a hotel or 
restaurant patronized by a more appreciative 
and cultured class of people he is at a loss to 
meet their requirements because they expect 
salads and sauces and various dainty trifles both 
hot and cold which his former employers, per- 
naps, never set the slightest value upon. A 
cook need not enter upon the unthankful task 
of undertaking to teach people what to eat, but, 
for his own sake, to fit himself to take higher 
positions, he should introduce a little salad very 
frequently; if not allowed a separate place in 
the bill of fare, it may even be included under 
the head of entrees, though more properly in 
the cold dishes. The first step towards making 
good salads is to become thoroughly proficient 
in making mayonnaise salad dressing. 

This is not at all diflicult, and is only trouble- 
some because there are so many things to be 
got together, but if these ingredients can be 
kept always ready in one place, the time of 
making can be very much shortened, for it is 
the going to one side for qil, here for eggs, 
there for vinegar, yonder for lemons, salt, 
mustard, bowls, whisks, cayenne, sugar, and, 
perhaps, ice, that makes the simple operation 
waste away half or three quarters of an hour 
of valuable time before the salad itself is even 
begun. 

We will suppose that the head cook of every 
first-class hotel can make mayonnaisf* easily 
enough, if he cares to, but, as matter of fact 
this job is generally turned over to some one or 
other of the assistants, and they often have 
great trouble in their attempts to get the 



THE AMBBIOAN OOOK. 



la 



mayonnaise stlfE enough, to say nothing of the 
failures which are complete, and which result 
in their throwing a quart or two of expensive 
stuff away, and having to " try again.** In one 
hotel, where I was employed as pastry cook, 
and had nothing to do with the salads, I could 
not help feeling sorry for the boys who had to 
make two quarts of mayonnaise every fore- 
noon for the I o^clock lunch, and for their deep 
anxiety, as to whether.it "would come,** and 
their gf eat joy and relief when it " did come,'* 
and at the risk of deeply offending the head 
meat cook I told the two boys one morning 
that if they would start their mayonnaise with- 
out putting in any salt at the first beginning I 
would show them a trick. Accordingly when 
they had stirred about one-third of the oil into 
the raw yolks, no vinegar nor anything else 
having 1>een put in, I stepped up and threw in 
the requisite tablespoonful of salt, and the effect 
was the mayonnaise thickened up at once so 
firm they could scarcely stir it. Then I told 
them to begin thinning it with vinegar by a 
teaspoonful at a time; then add oil, then the 
juice of a lemon, then vinegar, then oil, and so 
keep on until they had enough mayonnaise for 
the day ; to remember that oil makes it thick 
and vinegar makes it thin, and that it should 
be kept thick enough to be spread on top of a 
salad with a knife ; and to observe that mayon- 
naise becomes thicker with standing on ice a 
few hours, therefore should be made early in 
the day. They never had any trouble making 
this dressing after that. A teaspoonful of dry 
mustard in the bowl along with the six or eight 
yolks of eggs is an aid in stiffening the sauce, 
and is also a good seasoning for it, but to soften 
the mustard flavor a tablespoonful of sugar is 
required to be added at the finish. At starting, 
the oil should be added only a tablespoonful at 
a time. The best implement to stir with is a 
bunch-of-wire egg beater, but it is a mistake to 
whip up the mixture, it should only be stirred 
around. 

To Make Lobeter Salad with mayonnaise, 
mince celery and lobster in about equal quan- 
tities, but mince separately, not make hash of 
them, as I have seen it done in a chopping 
machine. They ought, if time can be spared, 
to be cut in very small dice. Then mix them, 
moisten with oil, then with vinegar, pepper and 
salt slightly, put in a good spoonful of mayon- 
naise and mix all. Pile the salad in a dish or 
bowl, smooth over, spread thick mayonnaise 
all over it, smooth it with a pallet knife, decorate 
with cut lemons, or olives, or quarters of hard- 
boiled eggs, or fancy shapes cut out of beets, 
and with sprigs of parsley. Shrimp salad and 
chicken salad are good made in the same way. 



Potato Salad* as ordinarily made, does not 
need mayonnaise. Boil some potatoes for the 
purpose and let them cool. Slice thinly, so 
that the vinegar can penetrate the slices. Mince 
an onion very fine, and throw in, also, as much 
or more minced parsley as there is onion, for 
parsley not only makes the salad look attrac- , 
tive, but it has the property for which it ha» 
been esteemed through hundreds of years o€ 
taking away the smell of onions from the 
breath. Then add salt and white pepper. Pouf 
in oil enough to make the potatoes shine, theo 
vinegar all they will absorb, and mix well by 
pouring from one bowl to another. There 
should not be any surplus liquor in the pan, 
but the salad should be moist as it can be with- 
out such surplus. 

Timbales and Dariole Cases.— For a change 
from the common puff paste patties little case» 
may be made by lining muffin rings or any- 
fancy shape of patty pans with good short 
paste rolled very thin. Fill them with flour to 
prevent rising and losing their shape, and bake 
well done. Then empty the flour out, brush 
out the inside and fill with the patty mixtures^ 
such as oysters or chicken meat in dice, mixed 
in a white or yellow sauce, or partridge, or 
other game, in a brown sauce. Lids can be 
cut out with scalloped cutters to fit these tim-^ 
bale caseSj egged over and baked separately. 

To make the wafer shells mentioned in the 
American Pastry Cook^ put no shortening nor 
raising ingredients in the batter, mix two egga. 
in a quart of milk, a little salt, and nothing else 
but flour. Stir it up with flour to the consist- 
ency of common thickening, a litte thinner 
than batter-cake mixture. Set some lard on 
the fire to get hot, have ready some tin scallojy 
shells, or individual jelly moulds, patty pans, or 
anything that will make a handsome wafer 
shape of individual dish size, dip in the hot 
lard, then dip the outside in the plain batter^ 
drop quickly into the hot lard and it will fry as 
a wafer, thin as cardboard, and when of a fine 
light brown color take it up, pull off from the 
tin shape, clip the edges with a pair of shears 
to remove roughness, and continue frying till 
you have enough. These may be used in alt 
ways that puff paste patties are used and make 
many ornamental changes. 

More Sonps and Entrees, — This volume^ 
Hotel Meat Cooking-^ contains a special line ol 
information for hotel men that is not to be 
found in any other work. I have had the 
satisfaction of hearing men in business sayr 
"Oh, yes, I have that book and it has beeik 
valuable to me in my restaurant (or hotel) busi- 
ness, and has helped me out of many a tight 
place.'* It helps them when their cooks dont 



r-r— «-- 



nr 



THB AMERICAN OOOK. 



"know much ; it helps them to know about meat 
cutting ; about names and kinds of game and of 
iish, and about unusual orders which traveling 
people sometimes give, and which the propri- 
etor does not like to own that he never heard 
before. 

Those who feel the need of more recipes for 
entrees, soups, sauces and fancy styles of pota- 
toes to serve with fish, will find them in my 
later book. Cooking for Profit; the expense of 
obtaining it is only the amount of one day^s 
wages of a good cook, and it is not altogether 
an advertising motive that prompts the above 
remark, for I want all those who have taken 
these books for their guide to be as skillful and 
efficient as possible. 

While thanking the generous-hearted hotel 
fraternity and the helpful hotel newspapers, 
the restaurant keepers, confectioners and bak- 
ers, and the great number of very humble 
friends who are spelling their way to wages 
and usefulness, for the patronage which has 
bought out ten editions In all of these booksi 
let me add the following extracts upon the sub- 
ject of book- writing from the ToutVs Companion^ 
because it coincides with my own experience : 

"Nevertheless, we fully agree with Mr. 
Brown that writing, though one of the noblest 
and most fascinating of human pursuits, is a 
very poor trade when compared with the other 
professions.** 
********* 

/•Moreover, the labor required to earn a liv- 



ing is far more continuous and exacting, and 
the chance of steady employment and certain 
wages much less, than in the case of other pro^ 
fessional men. But that is only one side ol 
the question, and to the bom and true author 
the less important side of it 

" If any one writes a book merely for the 
money it may bring, — if the writing of it is not 
one long delight, and its publication an event 
of triumphant joy, — ^it were better far to exer- 
cise some more ordinary vocation. The work 
is, as we have said, intense and continuous. To 
write a really good mag .zine article is a 
month's hard toil, plus ten year's special prep- 
aration. Unhappy is that man who gets noth- 
ing for it but a certain number of dollars a 
page! 

"Our advice to students would rather be: 
Do not write unless the impulse to do so is 
irresistible. Writing is a bad business; it is a 

high vocation." 

********* 

"The men who fail are those who assume 

the office of herald without having any message 

to deliver. 

********* 
"The reporter who will run his legs off to 
get an "item" in advance of his rivals; the 
editor who does not care if he is voted " heavy " 
if only he can deliver a valuable thought to 
those who will heed it; or the book-writer who 
is conscious that his work will elevate and help 
his fellows, — ^has a far higher reward than sil- 
ver or gold. His work is its own reward." 



•< 



». ^' 



.1 k 









THE 



^HOTEL-e- 



FISHMOYSTER*COO} 




ShD^wlng all the Best Methads nf Caakiiig Dysters and Fishj 

far REstaurant and Hntel SErvlcE^ tagstliEr vjiih 

ths appraprig^tE SaucEs and VsgEtatilES. 



BEING A PART OF THE 



*'OvEN AND Range" Series, 



BY 



Jessup Whitehead. 



■» • 



CHICAGO, 3901. 



i 



vscaa 



HOTEL FISH AND OYSTER COOK 



AMD 



HOW TO CUT MEATS 



ZtO^ST, SOZXi M.2Sr X} SX&OZZi^ 



803. To Dress TerrapizL 



When there is a qnestion of quantity required for 
a given number of persons it may be counted about 
the same as of young chickens. As th^y ordinarily 
run a terrapin weighs f^om two to four pounds 
alive. There are larger and better, but rarely ob- 
tainable away from the source of supply. The 
amount ef meat iii a terrapin is not over half the 
live weight. It is most serviceable stewed or in 
soup. 

Drop the terrapin alive into a pot of boiling 
water. At the end of 15 minutes take it out and 
take off the bottom shell by chipping through the 
thinnest part where it joins the back shell between 
the openings. This can be done with the heavy 
handle end of a stout knife. Cut close to the shell, 
not to bring any meat away with it. Pour away 
the water that will be found inside but save the 
blood that collects in the deep shell afterwards. 
The gall about the size of a cherry, will be seen near 
the center and must be taken out without breaking; 
also take out the single fish-bait entrail. Loosen 
the meat from the back shell and cut through the 
spine bone that attaches to the shell at a point above 
the tail. Empty it into a pan. When all are done 
go over them, take off the beads and put them with 
the shells for soup; separate the hind and fore feet 
(or £ns, as some call them] making four pieces; 
trim off the daws and scrape off the thin outside cuti- 
cle. It is worth while to take off the the rich fat 
that will be found at the shoulder joints of the 
female8,because it boils away while meat is cooking 
tender, and should be added later. It is of a very 
dark green oolor, «lmost black. Preserve along 



with it all the eggs both large and small. Keep all 
the pieces of meat, fat and eggs in cold water. Put 
on the heads, shells and remaining scraps in water 
enough to more than cover, boil slowly for two or 
three hours, skimming when it first boils, then 
strain the liquor or stock into a clean saucepan,pui 
the pieces of terrapin in and boil tLem one hour. The 
pieces that were like india-rubber at firist will begin 
to be tender by that time, but before being finished 
as stew or soup or otherwise should be taken up on 
dish to OGol and the liquor strained into a bowl. 



Most of the terrapin soup now made in hotels is 
of canned terrapin. The raw article prepared as 
above directed is now the same as the canned, ex- 
cept that the latter has the meat and jelly mixed 
together. Both can be finished for table in vari- 
ous ways. 



804. Terrapin in Shell, Maryland Style. 

Take a baking pan large enough to hold as many 
terrapins as are wanted, halt fill it with dry gravel 
or sand and make it hot in the oven. Kill or stun 
the terrapins, wash offand bed them back downwards 
in the pan of gravel. Bake nearly an hour. Take 
hold with a towel and pry off the belly shell, remove 
the gall bag and the single fish bait entrail Arom the 
inside and loosen the meat from the shell without 
taking it out. Work a cupful of soft bntter and 
half as much flour together with a large teaSpoonful 
of black pepper, the same of salt and juice of lemon. 
Drop a spoonful into each terrapin and replace them 
in the oven for the seasonings to cook. Serve in 
the shell on a folded napkin. 



280 



THB AMBaZOAV OOOX. 



806. Stewed Terrapin. 

The meat of six terrapint—aboat four quarts. 

The liquor or stock — about four quarts. 

6 ounces of butter. 

8 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Herb and spice seasonings. 

A cupful of sherry or maderia. 

The terrapin and the liquor it was boiled in being 
ready add a little water to the latter to allow for 
boiling away and set it on to boil with a tablespoon- 
ful of bruised peppercorns, a piece of parsley root, 
a small bunch of parsley and green thyme, eight 
cloTes.a b'ade of mace and a tablespoonful of onion. 
Stir the butter and flour together oTcr the fire until 
it is yellow or light brown, add it to the boiling 
stock and also a tablespoonful of salt. When boiled 
sufficiently with the thickening in it strain it into 
a clean saucepan. Thai is the sauce. Tase the 
pieces of cooked terrapin and chop off all the pro- 
jecting points of bones and otherwise trim the 
joints smooth and shapely, then put them into the 
sauce to simmer at the side of the range. Add the 
wine, and the fat pieces if any saved, also the e|ys, 
and strew them over the surface of the stew when 

served. 

806. Soft Shell Grabs, Boiled. 

Every part of a soft shell crab is eatab'e, shell, 
claws and all, except the sand pouch on the under 
side, but the small claws should be taken off when 
the crabs are to be cooked by boiling. 

Drop the crabs into boiling water already well 
salted, cook 10 or 16 minutes, drain,and serve with 
a sauce at the side. 

Tomato ketchup, mayonaise sauce, hot cream 
sauce or butter or parsley sauce are suitable kinds. 

807. Soft Shell Grabs, Fried. 

Bread it in the usual manner by dipping in egg 
in which a small proportion of water has been 
beaten, then in cracker meal. Drop two or three 
at a time into a saucepan of hot oil or lard and fry 
light brown in about ten minutes. The claws should 
be crisp enough to break. Garnish with fried pars- 
ley and serve mayonaise at the side separately. 

808. Osrster Stew for Fifty. 

A quart of small oysters bulk, <*solid meat," con- 
tains eight dozen. 

A quart of selects bulk, "solid meat," contains 
four to four and a half dosen. 

A can of selects contains three and a half dozen 
generally. 

The ordinary conventional oyster stew such as 
people expect to receive when it is cooked to order 
IS a pint bowl nearly full, consisting of one dosen 
oysters and one or one and a half cups of milk or 
milk and oyster liquor. To serve this according to 
the letter a pint of small oysters should be sufficient 



for four stews, or a can of selects for three and a 
half or four; but as the stews for a large number 
are dipped up and guessed there is always a discrep- 
ancy, and a pint can only be relied upon for three 
dishes. Proceeding upon these calculations, for a 
dinner, or oyster supper,or church festival or other 
such occasion provide for 50 stews 

9 quarts of small oysters, or 

12 or 13 quarts of selects, or 

14 or 15 cans of selects, and 

1} gallons of milk. 

i gallon of oyster liquor or water, 

1 pound of fresh butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls of salt. 

Set the milk on in good time that it may heat 
gradually and not burn, and put in the required 
amount of salt which also helps to prevent burning. 
Cook the oysters separately and tfdd them to the 
milk afterwards. It is better to boil the o^bster 
liquor or water by itself and then drop the oysters 
in, because if they are set over the fire cold in bulk 
the bottom will cook hard before the top is warm. 

As raw oysters do not drain well some boiling 
water should be poured over them, the liquor will 
then run abundantly and can be boiled and skim- 
med, the oysters added and then the milk and 
butter. 



809. To Fry Oysters Without Effffs. 

Mix cracker meal and flour together about a cup- 
ful of each, but the cracker meal the larger measure. 
If no cracker meal to be had crush some oyster 
crackers and put them through a seive. 

Have some milk in a shallow pan. Dip the 
oysters out of their own liquor into the mixed meal 
and flour, out of that into the milk, then into the 
meal again, giving them a double breading. It does 
no harm to let them lie in the breading a while. 
Handle carefully not to rub off the coating in places 
for the grease to get in. 

Have enough lard very hot in a deep pan to quite 
cover the oysters. Drop in a few at a time, f^ 
three or four minutes, take out with a skimmer 
when light brown and drain free from grease be- 
fore sending them in. 

The milk causes them to fry to the same fine 
brown color as if eggs were used. If they are quite 
immersed and fried quickly in lard that is hissing 
hot they come out crisp and dry, yet ftill of the 
juice of the oyster. If simmered in lard that is 
only half deep enough the breading peels off like so 
much greasy pudding. 

810. Glam Fritters Without Effffs. 

The same as the oysters preceding, using raw 
clams, but bread them four times over instead of 
twice and dip them in clam liquor until the last 
time when dip in milk for color. They are better 
done this way than with egg breading or batter. 



THB AUSBICAN COOK. 



231 



811. A Half-SheU Roa.st. 

» 

Choose oysters in the shell of a good shape for the 
purpose. Open them and preserve the liquor with 
them in the deep shell. Squeeze a little lemon juice 
into them, add salt, cayenne and a small pieoe of 
butter and set them on the hot top of the range 
vntil they begin to boil over. Or, for a little better 
way, set them in a pi^n haying salt in to hold the 
shells level and bake them five minutes in a hot 
oven. This is a good way for clams. 



812. Truffled Oysters. 

4 dozen of the largest oysters. 
1 can of trufSes (fl.50 size.) 

6 ounces of breast of chicken, oooked. 
8 ounces of fat salt pork, raw. 
Red or pickled pepper. 

5 eggs. Flour. Toast. 

Mince and then pound to a paste the chicken and 
salt pork and add a quarter pod of red pepper 
minced very small and a pinch of salt. Gut the 
truffles to the size of peas and mix them in. Lay 
the oysters out on a napkin, insert a penknife at 
the edge and split each oyster up and down inside 
without making the opening very large, then push 
in a teaspoonful of the truffle forcemeat. 

As the oysters are stuffed lay them in flour and 
ooat well with it, then dip in beaten egg in a plate. 
Drop a few at a timb into hot oil or lard and fry 
for three or four minutes. The lard should be deep 
enough to immerse them and hot enough to hiss 
sharply but not smoking. When the oysters are of 
a golden brown take them up and drain on blank 
paper in a hot place. Dust with fine salt. 

Cut diamond shaped pieces of thin dry toast and 
serve four oysters laid diagonally on each slice. 



813. Stuffed Oysters, Broiled. 



Grate the yolks of hard-boiled eggs — four or five 
for every dozen of the largest oysters — mince half 
as much fat salt pork or bacon and mix in, also 
black pepper and chopped parsley. Add a raw 
yolk to make a paste of it. 

Split the oysters inside by moving a penknife up 
and down without making a very large opening at 
the edge and stuff them. Dip them in fine bread 
crumbs that have been minced and silted through a 
eolander, then into butter melted on a plate, then 
into the bread crumbs again and broil them over a 
elearfire. (See No. 831.) 



As a matter of economy it is well to remember 
that where herd-boiled eggs are needed it answers 
about as well to break the eggs raw,save the whites 
for ether purposes and poaoh the yolks alone in a 
ahallow pan of water. 



814. Oysters with Maoaroni— Mileuiaise. 

1 pound of macaroni. 

3 cupfuls of oysters, or two cans. 

i pound of butter — } cupful. 

1 pint of milk. 

2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of flour. 

Pepper and salt. 

It is the same as making macaroni and cheese, 
with oysters in place of cheese. Italians make it 
with fish. 

Boil the the macaroni broken in pieces by itself 
first, throwing it into salted water already boiling 
and allowing 20 or 25 minutes. Strain it in a col- 
ander, put a layer on the bottom of a buttered pan 
and spread half the oysters on it. Drop pieces of 
butter, pepper and salt, more macaroni, the rest of 
the oysters and macaroni on top. 

Mix the flour smooth with milk, add the eggs and 
rest of the milk, pour it over the macaroni and bake 
until it is set in the middle. 

816. Oysters, Box Stew. Bestauremt 

Order. 

In answer to several enquiries as to ''what is a 
box stew?*' it has to be remarked that there Is not 
much sense in the term away from the famous Ful- 
ton market oyster houses. **Box stew" may be found 
on the regular printed bill of fare of a very few 
restaurants, price 60 cents, and when served it is a 
slew of a dozen of the very largest oysters just 
taken out of the shells, with only a spoonful of milk 
and quite as much of the best butter. The oysters, 
are dished upon a small square of buttered toast ia 
a bowl and the rich milk and butter poured around. 
It is uncommonly good eating, although there is no 
reason for the name except that the largest oysters 
that are called eounU in Chicago are called box 
oysters in Fulton market. 

816. Box Pry. 

Read explanation above, and a box fry is a fry^ 
of the very largest oysters in a paper box for 
the buyer to carry home. 

816. Soft Shell Olams. 



Not soft in the same sense that soft shell craba 
are, but a large kind with brittle shell. After 
taking out cut off the leathery dark portion that 
projected out of the shell and removq with knife 
and fingers the beard and string from the inside 
and throw the clams as they are trimmed into a pan 
of cold water. Fry them in any of th« ways 
directed for oysters; the method of Arying without 
eggs above described for oysters and clam fritters 
is excellent provided there is a sufficiency of hot 
lard, for these on account of their open form take- 
up a good deal of room. 

Stew same as oysters. Boast by replacing the 
''-mq in the shells after trimming. 



232 



THB AMBBICA27 OOOK. 



Now, at iMt, it is the cook's turn to tilk baek 
«bout that hotel oyster soap that they say has only 
one oyster, which, of coarse, is no such thing. Some 
of the guests get a whole plateftil of oysters, partic- 
ularly if the waiters are giris and allowed to help 
themselTCS at the tureen. Why, anyway, does the 
man who gets only one oyster oome so late ? But 
the discontent, in troth, is not with the soup but 
about something else. The only really national soup 
of this country is the oyster stew; it alone fills the 
measure of happiness fliH, and that which is soup 
truly and properly is unsatisfactory in just the 
<legree that it differs ftom stewed oysters. Bat afi er 
«ll the badinage, as stews cannot very generally be 
serTed as mere preliminaries to a great dinner, it is 
found that oyster soap meets with a readier welcome 
than any other that can be named, and in the inter- 
ior when the expensire raw oysters fidl will at least 
run eyen in faror with the best of other kinds if 
only made of the cooked canned or coye oysters. 

The oyster soups made by the European methods 
faaye no resemblance to our ' uniyersal oysters-in- 
milk ; with them the oysters are but an addition to 
a soup already made rich and high fluprored with fish 
stock, Tfgetables and ancheyies, or else the soup is 
almost a brown oyster sauce. 

In some of our largest restaurants the soup re- 
eeiyes so little attention that it amounts to nothing 
more than a pint of boiliog milk poured oyer six 
small oysters in a bowl. And stUl it sells, though 
it might be better. 

The lowest price of an oyster stew, such as hotel- 
keepers giye for soup when they can afford it, in 
respectable restaurants is 25 cents. It is a dosen 
medium oysters with a pint or less of milk and bit 
of butter, with crackers, butter and pickles on the 
table. To furnish such for soup at places away from 
the great oyster markets would require over one 
dozen well filled cans for eyery fifty persons. But 
hotel-keepers go the dearest way if they boy oysters 
in cans at all, they are cheapest in bulk by the 
gallon. Tl:e dealers and packers, howeyer, discour- 
age the sale in bulk all they are able. The can of 
oysters is supposed by moot people to be equal to a 
quart, but instead it takes 6} or 6 to fill a gallon. 
So much for comparison, but we are not going to do 
anything so mean as discourage the »»^^««g of the 
fayorite soup by making out a hard case of expense 
Against it and will treat of it not as stew but as soup 
— just what the bill of fSure promises and not some- 
4hittg better. 



According to the rales of etiquette 2 gallons of 
soup ought to be enough for 60, and a still smaller 
quantity might be, of any other kind. Haying made 
that suggestion, we will now suppose this is the 
Sunday dinner, and go on and make enengh to fill 
the plates. 

819. Oyster Soup. 

1 gallon of oysters — 5 or 6 cans. 

1 gallon of good clear soup stock. 

1 gallon of milk. 

1 pound of best fresh butter. 

1 tablespoonfkil of salt. 

1 heaping teaspoonful of white pepper. 

1 cupftil of crushed oyster crackers. 

The stock is used on the principle that the liquor 
that meat has been boiled in is better than water* 
It should be chicken or yeal broth slightly seasoned 
with celery and parsely and other yegetables, and 
should be taken from the top, clear without sedi- 
ment. 

The things to be guarded against are, not to get the 
milk curdled by boiling it with the oysters, and io 
ayoid haying the scum from the oyster liquor floating 
on top of the soup. To get out of the trouble shift- 
less cooks sometimes throw the liquor away and 
wash off the oysters; of course that makes the soup 
poor. 

An hour before dinner time set the gallon of stock 
on the range in one saucepan and the milk in another. 
Pour the oysters into a large colander set in another 
saucepan on the table and when the soap stock boils 
pour a few ladlefuls into the oysters, stir them and 
let them drain. Then set the oyster liquor thus 
obtained oyer the fire, when it boils skim it,then strain 
it into the soup stock. Next throw in the oysters 
and when they begin to shrink, showing they are 
fliirly hot through take the yessel from the fire. Stir 
in the cupful of rolled crackers, (not crasker meal 
firom the barrel,) the salt, pepper and batter, then at 
last add the boiling milk and pour the soup into the 
tureen. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley oter the 
top. 

It is yery poor polioy to let the oysters oyer reaoh 
boiling heat They begin to shrink and dwindle the 
moment they touch hot liquor and neyer stop till the 
largest saddle-rooks looks like small oysters, and 
the small oysters seem to disappear allegether. At 
least it is hard to find them after the soap has been 
kept hot for some time. 



THB AKSBIOAV OOOK. 



820. Oyster Soup, Frenoh Way* 

{Restaurant Order far 2^) 

2 qaartfl of oysters-^ or 8 cans. 

6 quarts of BMsoned fish stock. 

1 quarl of Frenoh whitt wint. 

^ or 4 anohoTies, 

18 yolks of eggs. 

1 plot of cream. 

Salt, pepper, and white batter-and-flonr thick- 
ening. 

Make the fish stock by boiling a 5 pound fish, or 
some eels, in plain broth, with a head of celery, a 
liandful or two of parsley, salt, white pepper, the 
wine and anofaoTies. M hile it is boiling pour a few 
ladiefuls into the oysters and then drain them in a 
■colander and add the liquor to the stock. When the 
fish has boiled slowly about three quarters of an 
hour strain off the stock into another kettle, add a 
little thickening, {roux,) let it boil and skim it ; put 
in the oysters and while they are nearing the boiling 
point ag%in beat the yolks and the pint of cream 
together and stir them in. Draw the kettle to the 
side of the range and watch till the soup becomes 
smooth and creamy but take care nol to let it ^oil. 
Taste for seasoning. 

The cans of oysters mentioned in the preceding 
receipts are intended to mean the raw fresh oysters 
in cans. The cooked kind or coto oysters, howeyer, 
make soups that are as good at least as meat soups. 
As this is a matter never mentioned in print before 
I will take oceasion to express the opinion that the 
boarders in hotels are not so much annoyed at being 
seryed with canned "coyc oyster" soup, which is 
good enough on its own merits, as they are by seeing 
it paraded as fresh oysters, which insults their un 
denitanding. Far inland where the raw canned 
article is costly and rare the point of this is under, 
stood. 



821. Brown Oyster Soui>. 

(25 Plates.) 

Take the preceding receipt for quantities. While 
(he fish stock is in preparation fry a small carrot, 
turnip and a piece of onion, all chopped small, in a 
little butter till brown, then put them in the boil- 
ing stock and let them cook in it some time longer 

Miike some brown butter thickening (roux) by 
stirring together a cupful of butter and the same 
t)f flour in a frjing pan and letting it bake brown in 
the oTen. 

Strain off the fish stock into another kettle on the 
fire. Add the brown thickening, stirring lest it 
eink end burn on the bottom. Add the oyster liquor 
and draw the soup to the side of the range to slowly 
boil end clear itself by throwing up scum Put in 
the juice of a lemon mixed with a little cold water 



and skim whea the soup boils up again. A few sua. 
utes before dinner time put the oysters into the soap 
and taka off as soon as it once more begins to boil. 
If no anchoYies have been used in the fish stock to 
heighten the flayer a speenful of essence of anoho* 
ties m»y be added to the finished soup. 



Where the bottle of white wine for the fish stock 
cannot be afforded the half cup of yinegar nsually 
added to boiling fish answers the same purpose. 



For the sake of helping a general understanding 
of terms it may be worth while to notice that stew- 
ards end cooks who write bills of Aire and think they 
must haye a style attached to eyery article named 
mean the milk soup of the first receipt when they 
write it a la ereme, and clam soups are designated 
the same. If we must gijre any opinion at all we 
say that it is sufficient in the hotel menu to write it 
simply oyster, or oyster soup. 



822. Olaxn Soups* 



Cut the clams in four pieces and make the soupa 
by the receipts for oyster soups. The French soup, 
number 820, like a true frioassee thinned down, 
with its dash of acid and partial thickening of egg 
yolks is better made with clams than with oysters. 



823. Olam Chowder Soup. 

Not to be confounded with showder proper any 
more than ouster soup is oyster stew. It is a popular 
kind, and that is the ^only criterion our articles' 
worth is oyer measured by. It is essential, to make 
a good looking soup, that the clams be neatly cut 
after scalding, into pieces the site of beans, and not 
chopped into tatters. 

4 dozen clams, or 8 cans. 

4 quarts of clear soup stock. 

1 quart of raw potatoes out in dice. 

1 pint of broken crackers. 

8 slices of ham, 

1 medium onion, or } cupful chopped. 
Salt and pepper. 

2 quarts of milk, 

Parsley, or a green celery leaf. 

The soup stock should haye been already flayored 
with yegetables in the stoct boiler. Strain the ra- 
quired amount and set it orer the fire. 

Frj the piec s of ham at the side of the range 
brown on both sides, put them into the stock, with* 
out the grease and let boil in it foi flayor, also, add 
the onions. Scnld the clams in their own liquor a 
minute or two; take them out, pour the liquor to 
the soup through a fine straioer, and cut the clanw 
in small pieces Thirty minutes before dinner throw 
in the potatoes and seasoning of salt and pepper and 
take out the ham slices (which are no more needed 



234 



THB AXBBIGAV COOK. 



ia the Boop), and tkim M it begina to boil Again. 
Add the olams and boil a few minutes, and the onp- 
ftil of eraoken and ohopped panley and the milk 
whioh should be already boiling. 



The oare required is to have the potatoes done 
and not boiled away, and the ommbled oraokers 
just dissolTed in the soup without making it too 
thick. 



Nothing promotes the enjoyment of a dinner so 
muoh as a happy knack of plain seasoning in the 
cook. Very common food can be made to excite the 
appetite and seem equal to the better description by 
a judicioas use of pepper and salt only. I( is very 
well to talk about leaving it to the people to do their 
own seasoning, but in fhct there is a different taste 
and finer flayor to articles that haye been cooked 
with pepper, especially black pepper, than when 
they are sprinkled with the raw. In combination 
with potatoes, with cooked crackers and with flour 
the difference is especially noticeable. And half the 
people forget or are too indifferent to season the 
things set before them at table; they do not stop to 
analyse the qualities of the yiands but carry away a 
sense that one dinner suits tbem and another does 
not. The question often arises, particularly con- 
cerning oysters. Discretion is needed and to keep 
tn the safe side, but skill in seasoning is a great 
point in cooking. 



824. Oyster Stew. MQk Stew. " 

Cook the oysters and the milk in separate sauce- 
pans. Dip the oysters from the saucepan into the 
bowl, add a ladleful of milk and a small piece of 
Anesh butler. Serye oraokers, butter and shred cab- 
bage separately with the stew. 



Oysters do not always curdle the milk when boiled 
in it, but there is always a danger that they may, so 
the rule is not to run any risk. Besides, to cook 
the oysters in the milk although good for flayor al. 
wa^s makes a diogy looking stew with a scum on 
top. To obtain the best quality and appearance boil 
some oyster liquor separately and keep it ready for 
orders. As it reaches boiling point the scum on top 
can be skimmed cff and aftier that pour it through a 
fine strainer into a clean saucepan, and you haye the 
oyster essence clear and ready for use without detri. 
ment to the appearances. 



It is with cooking an oyster as with cooking an 
egg. It may be either soft boiled or hard boiled, 
only then is the difference that an oyster boiled 
hard is spoiled. To cook oysters for stews set some 
of the liquor that has been boiled on in a little sauce- 
pan and drop in the oysters with a fork. Add a 
pinch of salt and pepper, shake them back and , 



forth while heating and as soon as the liquor ihirlj 
boils they are done. Time about 8 minutes for X 
stew. 



826. Plain Stew. 

The oysters cooked as aboye with the liquor onlf 

seryed with them, and no milk. 



826. Dry Stew. 

(Restaurant Order) 

The same as plain stew without the liquor, orwitA 
only a spoonful. 

827. Boston Fancy Stew. 



(Restaurant Order,) 

The milk stew with a slice of buttered toast float, 
ing in it and the oysters on the toast. Use a large, 
shallow bowl, put the square of tosst in it first, drain 
the liquor of the stew into it and place the oysters 
neatly* 



828. Oysters Single Breaded and 
Fried in Butter 

(Restaurant Order,) 

Not necessary to use eggs. Drop the oysters into 
a plate of cracker meal and giye them a good coating, 
careftil not to rub it off as it will not stick a second 
time. Drop an ounce of butter in the frying pan^ 
and when melted lay in the oysters close together. 
Cook oyer a brisk fire to get a brown on one side 
without hardening them. Lay a small plate upside 
down on the oysters, turn oyer the pan, then slide 
the cake of oysters from the plate into the pan again 
without letting them break apart and brown the 
other side Serye on the plate set in another plate 
Ornament with lemon and parsley. There are oyal 
shaped pans for such sauteee as this to be in shape 
for a platter. 

829. Fried Oysters. Single Breaded. 

Dry the oysters by pressing with a napkin. Drop 
them into beaten egg, in which is a little salt, and 
out of that into cracker meal. Giye them a good 
coating by pressing, with care not to rub, or leaye a 
bare place for the grease to get in. Drop them singly 
into a frying pau of hot lard. Fry brown in 2 or 8 
minutes. Dish neatly in the middle of a hot platter 
with a piece of lemon and sprigs of parsley. 

830. Fried Oysters. Double Breaded. 

Out of their own liquor into cracker.meal, coat 
well, dip in beaten egg and then in cracker* meal 
again. Fry 4 or 5 minutes. Oysters look twice aa 
large as they really are, when double breaded. 



THE ^JITZBICAN COOK. 



235 



Viirious fiinoies are made knowo bj differ .'nf pe) 
pie io legaid to fried ojsiers, the oommoofst being a 
preference for oora meal to dip tbem in instead of 
e aok*r-meaI. Fried oysters can nerer be made to 
look very well in that way and they are oaly served 
80 when so ordered One hotel-keoper. < f oonsider- 
able irareling experience, used to say the best 
he ever ate were breaded with white of egg and 
cracker.me»l and patted down flit, ihtn served set 
on edge wi<h very rmall and thin pieces of buttered 
toast between, line so miny lamb chops set up on a 
ditb. Where large quaniiiies are fried f.>r hotel nea's 
they are gecjerfilly double breaded and ail available 
band^ cilled in to help with that somewhat tediou<i 
operation, a pi'eof cracker meal being sprexd upon 
the table and the remainder of it sifted t) be put 
away for the n^zt occasion A large and deep meat 
pan is set on the range aud half filled with lard, ihe 
oysters shaken in out ( f a large pan or colander 
and when dune— there can be only a ft;w at a time 
fiied satisfactorily — lakea out wih a slcimmer and 
drained in another colander, or, bet'er8till,on seivfs. 
Six or eight to a di^h are enongh, and there should 
be a squeezable piece of lemoo, ob two, of them to 
each dibh. 



FHed oysters are expensive over the 0' her methods 
of cooking because of the laid drsiroyed. At the 
end of a meal ihe cracker sediment will have made 
the lard used Jark and u* fit for further use, and if 
clarified of that there sti I remains a sort of mucilage 
from the oysters that makes the lard boil over like 
butter melting, a**d almost useless. Oonseiquc^tiy 
the charge for firies is, and has to be, higher than 
tjT other styles. 



831. Broiled Oysters, Bread- Crumbed 

The original meaning of breading has nearly been 
forgotten, (-0 much better for m st purposes is the 
meal of crushed and sifled crackers than gra ed dry 
bread. But the sm%lluess of the demand for trended 
oysters broiled — way that over the water is consid- 
ered most delicite^is p^ojf that cracker-meal is not 
the thing for it. 

Oysters breaded in cracker-metl, then broiled, 
U'lless they are deluged wi h butter, are more like 
d Hcolored pieces of buckskin than afiyihingeatttb^e. 

Grate a stale loaf of bread or e'se mince tbe thin 
e ices ex*reme'y fine with a kuife. Shake the oys 
tits about la a little beaten egg, dip them in the 
bread crumbs and gently press a coating on lo h 
sides. It id bettt-r to let them lie in the crumbs 
awnile if there in time. 

Brush the wire oyster broiler with a brush dipped 
in butter, place the oysters, shut down the otht* r side 
and as soon as the egg is set with the heat of the 
bright coals b^ste the oysters on both sides with the 
•an e brush in buiter. Getatcast-brown on both sides 



without cooking the oysters too mnch. S^rve on a 
dish the sime as fried oysierj, with a piece of lemon. 



832 Plain Broiled Oysters on Toast; 

Take the largest oysters obtainable. Brush th^ 
wire oyster broiler with s^flenrd bu ter, lay in ilie- 
oysrers and broil over a hot fire 2 or 3 minu e!<» 
basting once on each side with the buiter hrn^h., 
Dish feide by side on one long slice of buttered toask 
in a dish. Garnish with lemon and parsley. 



Where silver-plated gridd es and silver wire broir- 
er3 are used it is practicable to dispense with the- 
bu ter basting altrgeti er, and prevint sticking bjr 
rubbing the bars wi h chtlk. 8>>me of the grea Cfel 
restaurants of the two continents have had a*sort of 
specialty in this line, aud probHb'y proved not only 
the des.rableneSH but the nal economy of tbe mode. 



833. Oyster Omelet 

{Restaurant Order,) 

6 oysters. 

2 •'gg-*. 

1 lar^e basting spoooful of milk. 

S*aEoaingf. 

G>ok the oys ers rare done io a little saucepan 
separately, with a spoooful of milk, ^cr^p of butter 
and thickcbing to make white sauce of tbe liquor. 

Break the 2 etrgs in a b}w1, put in a spoooful of 
milk snd beat wi h the wire egg whisk. Add a pincb 
of s».lt. 

Shake a table§poouful of melted lard about in th» 
omelet frying pan and before it gets very hot pour in 
tbe ome*et and let it cook rather slowly. 

Properly made omelets are not exnc ly rolled up» 
but there is a knack to be learned of ehaping them ii> 
the pm by shaking while cooking into one sidi of 
it, the bide ftttl^est from you, while you keep th& 
haudle towaid you raised higher. Loosen the edge» 
with a knife when it is nearly cooked enough t» 
shake. 

When the omelet is nearly done to the center 
p?ace the oysters with a spoon in the hollow m ddle* 
and pull over the further edge to cnver them in. JSlid^ 
on to the dish, smooth side up. Garuish with pars^ 
1< y and lemon. 

One reas n of omelets and all fried eggs sticking: 
to tbe frying pan is allowing the pan to g»'t too hot. 
Thcyseldim Mick when p.urfd into a pm that is^ 
only kept warm till wanted The p^ns should b«- 
kept fur no other purpose, and be rubbed smoutln 
after using, if not blight. 



Soallopcd or escaloped oysters (ei'her is right)| 
should mean oys' ers cooked in theii shell, but therei 
are several ways commonly practiced of esoAlopin^ 



236 



THB AKBBICAir COOK. 



oxsters of whioh we giye f >ar. The besi way must 
be tt at which eui a the par ioular oaae. The large 
pan is I be quiokest, for hotel dianera, but the eame 
thing of individual dioDeasioBS ia aeryed in maajr 
resiaurants. The half phell method is the most 
atjiisby end the most tedious for large numbers. 



834. Esoaloped Oysters. Large Fan. 



The thing to be guarded agiinst is the getting it 
all bread and dry and ha*d and fit thet reason un- 
datable. These proportions m%ke it right. 

8 dozen oysters and their liquor. 

12 ounecs of butter. 

2 pounds of fine bread and cracker crumbs mixed. 

1 pint of milk. Pepper and salt. 

Ude a shallow 4-quart milk pao. Spread a little 
of the butter all orer the bottom and cover that with 
• layer of the mfxed bread crumbs. 

Sca*d the oyaters In their Kquor Just enough to 
make them shrink a little and plaoe half of them 
close together on the layer of crumbs. Then more 
crumbs, butter dropped about in small pieces, pep- 
per and salt ; then the rest of the oysters and cover 
with the remaining bread crumba and batter. Mix 
the milk with the oyster liquor, strain it into the 
pan, moistening the top ail over. Bake from 20 to 
80 minutes. 



The same thing as the foregoing can be baked in a 
ahallow baking pan only one layer deep, but needs 
▼ery quioi baking to be good. 



836. Soalloped Oysters. 

(Restaurant Party.) 



Baked on a platter of a size according to number. 

put a border of mashed potato f iroed like a thick 
cord through a paper cornet all around the inner 
rim of the platter to hold in the liquor. The inside 
scooped out of baked poiatoes is often the available 
thing for this. 

Cover the bottom of the dish with finely minced or 
grated bread crumbs. Scald the oysters slightly in a 
saucepan and then place them close together on the 
layer of crumbs. Continue till the dish is piled up 
in the middle and rounded, with the butter, salt 
and pepper as in the preceding receipt, then mix the 
oyster liquor with a little milk and strain over the 
top. Wipe the edgei of the dish dry. Bake to get 
a quick brown on top, on the top shelf of the oven. 



Silver dishes are the better for such uses. The 
above way and the nezt destroys white dishes after 
a few times, but not so rapidly if they are wiped 
perfectly dry and clean before baking. 



836. Soalloped Oysters. 

(Individual Orders). 

In snaU deep dishes, same way as shirred eggt. 
A few bread crumbs in the dish, 6 to 12 oysters, 
bread crumbs spread thinly over then, butter on 
top and bake on the top shelf in a hot oven. 



837. Soalloped Oysters on Half Shell. 

Select oysters of good shape for this— Blue Peints, 
Sco oh coves> or Shrewsburys. Loosen tiiem entirely 
from the shell or they will draw to cue side. Dredge 
fine bread crumbs in the shell, replace the oyster, 
cover with bread crumba and bake by the panful on 
the top shelf. When lightly browned pour a teib- 
spoonful of melted fresh butter over each one, motst- 
ening the crumbs with IL 

It haateoB the browning to have the bveul dry 
already. Serve 4 or 6 to an order with a quarter of 
a lemon in the center of the dish. 



838. Soalloped Olams on Half ShelL 

Take the clams out of the shells and scild them 
slightly in their own liquor. Replace them in the 
half shell, pepper and salt, and thea cover with fine 
bread crumbs, and bake quickly. Make a little 
white sauoe of the olam liquor mixed with creun 
and a litt!e butter and spoonful of flour thickening, 
and pour a spioaful of it over the cUm in the shell 
when It has become browoed. Serre same as oys* 
ters, on a small fish plate, with a piece of lemon. 



839. Oysters— Shell Roast. 

A bright and glowing charcoal fire is requisite for 
this. The oyster ranges are nearly all broiler and 
the bars are near the coals. Wash the oysters with 
a brush in water. Lay them on the broiler, flat 
side down, and endeavor to get the shell so hot as to 
slightly olor the oyster. When the ehell begins to 
open turn it over. Dish up in (he deep shell, the 
other removed entirely, and if too dry pour over 
each one a small spoonful of hot oyster liquor and 
butter mixed. Serve a dozen on a p!atter, a half on 
a fish pla'e, with lemon. 



840* OystM's— Fancy Roast. 

(Restaurant Order.) 

Cut two slices of buttered toast to fit a medium 
sized platter, when placed end to end, or cut fancy 
shapes of toast that when placed together will form 
a star ehape. 

Roast the oysters in the shells. Take them out 
when done and place them on (he toast and pour 
some hot oyster liquor mixed with cream over the 
•oast and in the dish. Garnish with parsley. 



THE AMEBICAV COOK. 



837 



84 L. Oystero^Pan Boast. 

Aq imititioa of the shell roast. 

1. Put 12 or 13 oysters in a bright pie pan, with 
their liquor. Dredge with 8%U aod pepper very 
spariog y. Drop in some small lumps of butier and 
take on the top shelf of a hot oven from 3 to 5 min 
n'es Slide them right side up into a hot dish, and 
garnish with 1 or 2 quarters of lemon. 

2. A very oommon way in restaurants is to merely 
«iew the oysters in a bright tin pan holding only about 
« pint, slightly season, and serve them in the same 
pan set in a plate. And, further, in the s^me style 
neat lids are used that fit the pans, to be placed 
when the oysters are done and sent in so. There is 
no difference, eicept in the imagination, betwixt 
that and a dry stew. 



843. Steamed Oystera. Shells. 



Scrub the oysters clean in water. Place th« deep 
shell side down in the steara«r and steam tkem about 
6 minutes. Take « ff tie top sbe.l and save aa Bu«h 
of the liquor a» possible with the oyster in the lower 
one. S<*rvo on a p'a ler without seatoniBg or any 
addition, eioept iomoa in quartcf*. 



843. Oyster Pie. Individual 

A very popular sort of oyster pie is mude with a 
b tiom and top cru^tt i f ^hort padte in a pie pan, 
like a fruit pie, butiu size no larger than a tea saucer 
if to hold but a duze i m dium oysters for a single 
order. Bake a few nbead cf orders and keep them 
wArm. Serve on a plate with hut oyster stew liquor 
pjured under. 



844. Oyster Pie or Pot Pie. Oheai>est« 



Put 4 quarts of small oysters pretty well drained 
from their liquur iato a 6 quart bright pan aod cover 
them with a sheet of goid biscuit d ugh, or with a 
pot-pie dough made of a quart cf fl >ur, 3 teaspoon, 
fii s ( f baking powder, pait and water and no short- 
euing, but mixed up and rolled out very soft. 

Bake about twenty minutes and then introduce at 
one side a seasoning of aalt and pepper, a small piece 
of butter, a cupful ( f milk and a iirge tpoonful of 
li tur thickening & ir abou^ replMce the piece of 
crust and bake a short timehnger. Se Is well in 
restaurants where regular dinner is served. The 
crust should be as light as a spooge and lightly 
browned. 



845. Small Oyster Pie 

{IIoUl Entree.) 



2 quarts of oysters. 

3 cupfuls of milk. 



2 ouncee ^f Imtler. 

2 ounces of flour. 

Cayenne, ^alt, parsley* 

Pnff paste for the crvets. 

Set the oysters over the fire to scald bnt take off 
bofora they boil. B lil the milk by itself. Mix the 
batter and fl >nr together in a aancepan big enough 
to ho'd all the rrs^ and when it bubbles up on tno 
range b^gtn stirring ia the milk, thus making a, 
thick whit e sance. Let it boil up, stirring consiaaily • 
Season with cayenne and salt. Take the oystem oui 
of their liqaor and put them in the white sauce, and 
then stir in a little chopped penley. 

For the cruets roll out a sheet of puff paste qaile 
thin, cut out flats with an oval cutter or biscuit cut- 
ter bent to shape, and bake them on a baking sheet. 
When to be served split then. Dish a ppoonfnl of 
oysters on the bottom ha'f and plaee the other ornat 
on top. 

846* Ojrster Patttos or Bouchees. 

For direotione for making puff paste and ToUau* 
vents or patty cases, eee Nos. 29 and 72. 

Prepare the oysters as in the preceding ar iol^, 
hut make a yellow sauce fbr them by thickening with 
8 yolks of eggs in lieu of part of the flour. The 
sauoe must not qoire boil after the yolks are added. 
At the last sqneese in the jnioe of a lemor. Take 
the lids not of the patties, fill with oysters, replace 
the lid and garnish with a sprig of parsley. 



It may be hardly neces<«<)iy to mention that th® 
two oyster patty flUiogs ab ve are suiiable in other 
forms of patties. As to the uamea the oysters in 
white sauce ure a la bechamel because cream sauce 
i^se named, ar>d >he patties filled with the yellow 
are usually Uuhb d a la pnnces^e. The particulnr 
exercise of la^ie and judgment required is to get the 
saucer just thick enough to cost the oys ers and not 
run out of the patties, and yet not like a pnste. The 
yellow sauee is thickest about one minute after the 
yolks are added and gets thinner an 1 poorer after- 
wards. 



847. Oysters in Oases. 

Either of the oyster patly mixtures m*>y be used 
with the difference that the oysters must be out in 
small pieces afker the scalding and before they are 
put into the sauce. A li tie anch' vy sauce may be 
^dded. Serve a spoonful in each little paper case 
and hand around hot. Paper ca§e^ can be bought 
hy the doz n. They should be brushed slightly with 
clear butter and allowed to ptand in the oven a min- 
ute before the fil ing. The«e kuitrts en eaisse are 
served at luncheons, and as appetisers, after the 
\ .-oup at dinner. 



238 



THE AMERICAN COOK. 



848. Oysters in a Loaf. 

{Restaurant Order.) 

Take a loaf that has been baked in a tin mold, 
such as the bakers sell ; cut off the top crust and lay 
it abide, remoye most of the inside orumb, then cut 
the edge into ornamental notches or saw tooth fash- 
ion all around. Spread a little soft butter inside 
with the back of a spoon and set the loaf in the 
OTsn to toast. The top generally gets browned 
enough bj the time the buttered inside is hot. Make 
an oyster stew in the usual way but dredge in a few 
fine bread crumbs to parti illy thicken it. Pour into 
the hot crisped loaf on a dish, no cover. 



840* The loaf aboye becomes a crouatade when it 
is tried in hot lard or clarified butier, and pan roasts 
with their liquor and butter are sometimes served 
in croustades, so are fried oysters. 

For iodividual hotel entrees the method is to use 
plain round rolls with the inside scooped out end fill 
with either of the oyster p itiy preparations. Or els^ 
to out slices of bread in fancy shapes, fry and place 
three or four as a border in the dish and the oyster 
preparation in the middle. 



The next is a method not at all especial for oysters 
siooe any other sayory filling may be used, but the 
orouBtade small belooga to the class of hors d'oeuyre 
like the cases and pattiei that are served between 
courses These cannot be recommended for )arge 
dinLCrs, fur though they need not be really wasteful 
they certainly have the appearance of beiog so. This 
is one of the methods of what is called fine cookery. 



860. Croustades of Oysters. 

Ma'ie some bulls of c Id butter by working ihem 
iu ice water in a bowl, and shape them like eggs, or 
round or flattened or canoe shaped. Roll them in 
ytry fine bread crumbs, then in beaten eggs with a 
Utile milk mixed in, then in cracker meal ; then in 
egg And cracker meal .again. In short, you double 
br^ad the balls of butter after first giving them a 
^ol•d coat of bread crumbs. 

After ro ling up the outside smooth in plenty of 

cracker meal drop the balls in hot lard and fry like 

any other breaded article to a deep yellow color. 

Take them out, out out a circular piece of the top 

liirn the croustade upside down and let all the buu 

ter run out, or if not all melted take it out with a 

teispoop. Drain well from grease, keep the cases 

cri^p and hot, and when to be served fill thf m with 

uydter p'lty preparation the same as fir ciees, with 

. ih*i oysters c t small, repUce the liJs and serve. 

lOAriii'>h with lemon and parsl^'y. Ta*te care in 

tknnking the balls of butter to have them sma^l, fbr 

^tbe hreid'ng increases the S'ze greatly. Lirge sizes 

can, he wever, be made for restaurant pirties. 



851. Oysters Broiled in Bacon. 

Dredge some large oysters with pepper and squceze- 
the juice of a lemon over them. 

Cut large slices rf fat b'lcon as thin as possible. 
Roll up two oysters together in*each slice, run a 
skewer through diig nally a/id put six such rolls on 
each skewer crowded together to allow for shrinkage. 
Bake in the top of the oven for a few minutes, tbe- 
skewers resting on theeige of a pan with the oys- 
ters raised above the drippings. Finish on the 
broiler. Serve on the skewers on buttered tsast in 
a dish, and if common skewcrs are u^ed sHp a ring 
of fringed paper on the end. 

Oys*eT sauce is the bait (bat catches the mott 
people, and where the cheapest son does so well 
there is little encouragement to try the artistic. 

862. White Oyster Sauoe— Common. 



Take a quart of your fish soup or the liquor the 
fish is boiling in and pour it hot to about 8 dozen 
oysters. Drain it then from the oysters through a 
colander and boil it. Skim, stir in a large spoonful 
or two of flour-aod -water thickening, a little salt 
and then the oysters. Take off as 60on as it begina 
to boil again. 



863. White Oyster Sauce— Good 

1 level cupful of fresh butter. 

1 level cupful of flour. 

4 dozen oysters and their liquor. 

1 quart of fish stock or soup stock. 

1 lemon, cayenne, salt. 

Stir the butter and flour together in • sauce pan 
over the fiie till the mixture is hot and bubbling. 
Pjur the quart of stock (or water) over the oysters 
in a colander set in a pan, and when it hns run 
through add it a little at a time to the butter and 
fl)ur. Stir up smooth and let it boil It should be 
thicker than sauce, and the oysters now to be added 
should thin it to the proper degree. As soon as it 
begins to boil again take from the fire Stir in a 
Small lump of cold butler, the juice of the lemon 
and pinch of cayenne, and do not let the oysters 
cook hard. 



854. Brown Oyster Sauce. 

When to be served with baked fish or with roast 
turkey the very best is made by first making a gravy 
in the pan from which the fish (or turkey) has just 
been removed, and after straioiDgaddi'^g the oysters 
to it. If not convcDient to do that bake the butter 
and flour of the preceding receipt together in a fry- 
ing pan in the oven ti 1 brown through, and use it 
to thicken the quart of stock. Add a tablespoonful 
(if caramel for colur, and the same of anchovy^ 
sauce. 



TEE AKEBICAN COOK. 



239 



366. Oyster Stuffinff for Turkeys and 

Fish. 

3 or 4 dozen oysters. 

1 quart of crushed oyster crackers. 

1 quart of fine bread crumbs. 
8 ounces of butter. 

2 eggs. Pepper and salt. 

To get the breid finely crumbled it is best to slice 
thin and then mioca it. The mixture of bread and 
crackers is much better than bread alone. Stir the 
softened butier, the liquor from the oysters and the 
two eggs into the crumbs aod seasm to taste. Then 
mix in the oysters whole. Stuff <(he fowl loosely, 
that the filling may absorb the gravy. Enough for 
one large turkey or two geese or large fowls. 



S6Q. Scalloped Oysters in Silver Shells 

And now, since writing the receipts a little way 
back for scallcped oys'ers, thinking it be<t not to 
mention the silver soiUop shells which c^st $48 per 
dozen, with the air of the kiog*s cook setting pe3p]e 
to wishing for things it is not good f ^r them to h ive 
I bare discjvered that there are upon the market 
Tery good imitations stamped from heavy tin tha* 
are entirely prac icable and with care to ke-^p the 
edges dry while baking, aod careful pjlishiog, may 
be kept bright and presentable a long time. They 
cost $3 per dozen ; are in scallop shell shape and 
hold ab lut as much as a small tea saucer, but have 
more depth. They are calculated for an individual 
dish of half a d'>zen oysters scalloped. So, to re- 
state it for couTenience sake, take 

6 or 7 dozen oysters. 

1 pound of fine bread crumbs. 

1 pound of crushed oyster crackers. 

12 ounces of butter. 

1 pint of milk. 

Pepper and ealt. 

Soften the butter and brush a coating of it oyer 
the bottom of the shells and strew in a layer of the 
mixed bread and cracker crumbs. 

Shake the oysters about in a pan oyer the fire to 
make them shrink a little without boiling, take out 
with a drainer and place 5 or 6 in each scallop. 
C)verwith the crumbs. Mix the butter with the 
hot oyster liquor, add the milk, pepper and silt to 
taste, and divide it by spoonfuls into the 15 or 18 
scallops, moistening the crumbs all over. Wipe the 
edges clean. Bake on the middle shelf of the range. 



867. Oyster Kroxnesktes. 



Little pieces of a sort of croquette miztare rolled 
in thin shared slices of bacon and fHed in batter. 
1 quart of oysters and their liquor. 
1 pint of minced chicken meat. 
1 cupful of milk. 
i capful of flour«-2 ounces. 



Butter size of an egg. 

4 yolks of eggs. 

Blick pepper, salt, little cayenne. 

Juice of half a lemon. 

50 little wraps of parboiled fat bacon* 

Frying batter. 

Scald the oysters first in their own liquor, take 
out wi h a skimmer and cut them small. Mince the 
chioken as if f jr salad, in the smallest possible dice. 
Melt the butter and flour together as if for butter 
sauce, and when it bubbles stir in the oys'cr liquor 
and the milk. Add the minced chicken and season, 
ing and siir till boiling hot agiin, put in the four 
yolks and when they have further thickened the 
mixture add the cut up oysters and then spread it 
in a bright pan brushed with buiter, and let it get 
qui e cold on ice. 

Gut in strips the thickness of fingers, divide in 
two-inch lengths, roll up in bacon very thin, dip in 
fine frying batter and fry like fiiiters. Serre in 
place of patties, hot, with fried parsley 



For directions for making the finest frying batter 
for the aboTC see No. 252. Am. Pastry Cook, com- 
mon, for oydters and elam fritters, No. 258. 



868. Oyster Fritters. 

Scad the oysters first, or they will ehrink toe 
much, but they need not actually boil. Drain, 
sprinkle with pepper and salt and drop them intoa 
pan of frying batier. Take two or three together 
with the batter coating them, and push from the 
spoon into hot^ard. Very large oysters to be fried 
in batier singly without previ us scalding should be 
dried fiv^t be' ween two towels and dipped in the 
finest frying batter. They are done whencTer the 
outside has acquired a yellow color. Serve same ea 
fried oysters. 

. 869. Clam Fritters. 

Th? same as oyster fritters preceding. They are 
better with a cream sauce poured over. 



860. Scallops in Batter ^ Marseillaise. 

Scallops, the shell fish, not being universally 
known are often in an explanatory way designated 
New York scallops in the hotel bill of fare. Scallops 
of a smaller sort are known on the other side of 
the Atlantic as cockles. Our scallops, not generally 
eaten raw, come to market in bulk without the shells. 
They are the little cream colored lumps seen in 
tubs at the fish shops. They have the tenderness of 
the oyster but the taste of tl.e quabog. 

Take 4 dozen scollops drained from their liqaor, 
dredge with pepper and salt and squeeze the jaioe 
of a large lemon over them, and let remain in the 
pickle an hour or two. Make the fine frying batter 



240 



THB AMBBIGAN COOK. 



(No 2)2). Make reidy some Urd, hot enough to 
Just begiu to smoke. Drain the scallops on a seive, 
take up two at a time with a spoon, dip them in the 
batter and coat them well, and fry for 2 or 8 minutes. 
Drain them on paper and keep hot. 

Mash 2 cans of French peas (or use any other 
peas that are preen) through a grayy strainer and 
season the puree thus obtained with butter, pepper 
and salt. Spread a small spoonful in each small 
dish, place two of the scallop fritters on the puree 
and serve hot. 



Scallops may also be cooked in most of the ways 
that oysters are4one, stewed, fried or rotfsted. 



The process for the following is the same as for 
the yellow oyster preparation for patties at No. 846. 
Familiarity with one makes the other easy. 



And it is here in place to mention that while a 
large piece of bread cut into a hollow sh«ipe and 
fiied is called a crouttade, as was stated a little way 
back, small pieces cut in shapes, such as may be 
used fo ornament with, or to serve instead of toast 
with clams, etc., are called croutons. 



861. Fricasseed Clams on Toast* 

4 dozen clams and their liquor. 
6 yolks of eggs. 

1 pint of m Ik. 

2 ounces of butter. 
1 ounce of flour. 

1 lemon, cayenne, salt. 

Boil the milk. Take the clams from their shells 
and scald in their own liquor, drain them from it 
and cut them in pieces. Strain the clam liquor into 
the milk, add a spoonful of thickening, the butter, 
and the yolks slightly beaten, and the salt and cay- 
enne to taste. Squeeze in the juice of the lemon. 
Then put in the cut clams. Dish spoonfuls on 
toMt out in neat shapes, or on fried crusts. 



Which of these two mollusks has the best of it 
after all, the oyster, for which the regard is great 
but wholly gustatory, or the clam, for which the re- 
gird is moie than half sentimenta)? Sorry indeed 
we all are that it is so, tor we care nothing for the 
oyster further than that it is good to eat, but a hun- 
dred barrels of oysters may be sold as soon as one 
barrel of clams, and yet one far inland, homesick for 
a taste of the salt sea, will find it in the just opened 
shell of a small quahog or a laige little neck as no- 
where else, and not in the oyster at all, for the latter 
(hriTes most and fattens fastest where there is a mix- 
lure of fresh water with salt But as If to olTset 
this inequality in its market value the clam has got 
itself somehow mixed up with all the New England 
history, tales and traditions to such an extent that it 



can never be left out or disregarded or forgotten, so 
that even if we cannot eat the clam it interests us, 
and we wish it well and grieye because it is not as 
good as the oyster, and neyer can be. To learn 
something more about it let us quote from Thoreau, 
exploring the clam grounds of Cape Cod, like a 
Layard on the site of another Nineveh: 

* 'There were, here and there, heaps of shells in 
the fields where clams had been opened for bait; fur 
Orleans is famous for its shell-fish, especially clams. 
The shores are more fertile than the dry land. The 
inhabitants measure their crops, not only by bushels 
of corns, but by barrels of clams. A thousand bar- 
rels of dam-bait are counted as equal in Talue to 
six or eight thousand bushels of Indian corn, and 
once they were pro3ured witout more Ubor or ex- 
pense, and the supply was thought to be inexhaust- 
tble. *For,' runs the history, *af(er a portion of the 
shore has been dug over, and almost all the clams 
taken up, at the end of two years, it is said they 
are as plenty there as ever. It is even affirmed 
by many persons, that it is as necessary to stir clam 
ground frequently, as it is to hoe a field of potatoes 
because, if this labor is omitted, the clams will be 
crowded too closely together, add will be prevented 
from increasing in site ' But we were told that the 
small olam, mya armaria^ was not so plenty here aa 
formerly. Probably the clam. ground has l>een stirred 
too frequently, after all. Nevertheless one man, whe 
complained that they fed pigs with them and so made 
thom scaree, told me that he dug and opened one 
hundred and tweoty«six dollars worth in one winter, 
in Truro." 

Ag<iin: ^*We found some large clams, of the speciea 
maetra toltditnma, which the storm had torn up f^oai 
the bottom, and east ashore. I selected one of the 
largest, about six inches in length, and carried it 
along, thinking to try an experiment on it. We soon 
after met a wrecker with a grapple and a rope. * * 
He also told us that the dam which I had was the 
sea dam or hen, and was good to eat. We took our 
nooning under a sand-hill, covered with beach-grass, 
in a dreary little hollow, on the bank, while it alter, 
nalely rained and shined. There, having reduced 
some damp drift-wood, which I had picked up on the 
shore, to shavings with my knife, I kindled a fire 
and cooked my dam on the embers for my di«ner; 
for breakfast was commonly the only meal which I 
took in a house on this excursion. When the olam 
was done one valve held the meat and the other the 
liquor. Though it was very tough, I found it sweet 
and savory, and ate the whole with a relish. In- 
deed, with the addition of a cracker or two, it would 
have been a bountiful dinner. I noticed that the 
shells were such as I had seen in the sugar-kit at 
home. Tied to a stick, they formerly made the In- 
dians hoe hereabouts " 

*'The old man said the great dams (long neeksV 
were good to eat, but they always took out a oertaia 



THE AMERICAN COOK. 



241 



part which waspu^onou", befira they cobbed ihem 
'Peop e Httid it would kill a oat.' I did not tell hiro 
I had enjen a Itrge one entire that afternoon, but be- 
g«n to think that I was tougher than a cat. In the 
ooure of the fvo i g I began to feel the polencj of 
the o'am which I had ea ei, and I was obliged t» 
confess to ^u^ ho«t that I was no tougher thin the 
oat he toM • f ; but. he answer 'd, ihat he was a plain- 
spoken mm. and he could tell me th%t it was all 
imagination At any ra e it prored an emetic in mj 
case, and I wfis mide quite sick by it for a short 
time, while he Inughrd nt my expense. I was pleaded 
to r'nd nf erwart. in Moiirt's Relation of the landw 
ing of the Pi'gr m^ in Proyioceiown Uarbor, these 
w >rd*: <We f und greit muscles (the old editor says 
th%t thfy were undoubtedly sea clam«*) and very fai 
and full of sf*a pearl; but we cou'd not ent them, 
fur they made U4 all sick that did eat, as well sailurs 
as passenger;!. But they were soon well again.' It 
brought me neirer to the Pilgrims to be thus re- 
minded by a similar experience that I was bo like 
them " 



Having ttius paid the tribute of a small space <c 
the New Eogia d clam, let us proceed wi h our own 
narra lye. For the Urge clams or <*lon^ necks" 
■Motioned above cone to mnrket already « rung on 
twine like oM-fishioned dri«d apples. They are 
priooipally a«ed f r msting olam chowder. They 
anstning tbroogii the "neck " and that part should 
be cut off before they are cooked. 



862* Olam Ohowder. 

About 1 quart of c^ams, or two cans. 
. 1 pound of salt pork. 
2 quarts of sliced raw potatoes. 

1 small onion. 

2 teaspoonfuls of salt. 

1 teaspoonful at pepper. 

1 quart of milk, and the clam liquor. 

About a pint of broken crackers. 

Tfai4 will take a pan that holds 6 or 6 quarts, or 
two smaU ones. Cut the pork in dice, put it into the 
pan and bake it light brown. Take the pan out and 
strew some of the thin sliced potatoes all over the 
pnrit scraps and fat. Shave some slices of the onion 
over th^ra, then half the c'ams, cut in small piecfs> 
then more po atoes, onion, and the rest of the damn. 
Potatoes on lop and the crushed crackers over all. 
Mix the quart of railk with the clam liquor, add the 
pepper and sat and poor it over the crackers. Brush 
a sheet of thick paper with a little meat fat, lay it 
on top of the chowder and bake in a moderate oven 
about 2 hours. It will be partly browned on top. 

More liqi'id m^y bo needed if the chowder boils 
away f^st. It is done whenever the potatoes in the 
center are done. Dish out spoonfnls on flat dishes. 



863. Fish Chowder. 

Fresh codfish and baddoek make the best cbowdew 
but any other kind that can be freed from bones 
will do Proceed as f ^r clam chowder wi h the dif* 
ferencd that t* e poatoes should be boiled first, thi 
fish nc>t needing much time to cook. But cr may be 
used instead of p irk. 



We have heiird that on the coast of France the fish 
houses serve a pot-pourri (f the chowder description 
made of a mixture of all sorts of shell fish, scallops^ 
muscles, periwinkles, oysters, whelks, etc., with ship 
pork and phip bi>cuit. 

Also^ that I he j'lmbalaya of Florida is a mixture- 
of different sorts of fish wiih tomatoes, peppers and 
rice, of a soup like consistency We have heard, too, 
of bi^que1 of sh'-ll fi^h — soups tl io ened with the 
pounded meat of one kind of fish and several other 
kiuds thrown in like plums into a pudding. And 
we have heard of clam chowder being made with 
t)matoes mixed in and various high flivored herba 
besides. These things htve to be mentioned be- 
cause, an hotel cookH, the whole boundlegs continent 
is ours to make c^ owder in any way that we please^ 
but the old Wellfleet oysterman, once above men- 
tioned, we feel certain would never have owned that 
to be real chowder, and he should know, fur all his 
world ^as clams and oysters. 



864. Baw Oysters and Clams. 

The dealers now say that most of the popular 
names that oysters are so d by are but popular delu- 
sions, the Saddle Reck bed^ fir instance, having 
been exhausted twenty years ago, and the same with 
— but why should we m'^ddM The Morris Rivers 
ot the Scotch Coves, the Blue Points and Shrews- 
burys are all small and fat and of good shape to 
serve ia the shell. And with all the devices of 
china, glass and ice to serve raw oysters in, they 
never have the same taste out of the shell that they 
have when first opened and sprinkled with the juice 
from half a lemon. Fuur, five or six of these small 
oysters make a pla*e to serve preliminary to the 
dinner; fashion, it is said, even interfering in this 
small matter a«id making the proper number at pres- 
ent ftur. See that the shells are clean before open* 
ing the oysters. Put the piece of lemon in the 
middle. 

**Connt8," or New York counts, are the largest 
oysters sold by count and not by the gallon. 'Culls^* 
are the large-t "eelec s '* ''Selects** are the ordin. 
arily large oysters, sold by gallon ore m. *<Strftight8^' 
come next and are supposed to be of all sis»s unsortod. 
''Standards" are small oysters, and there is a grade 
below that known m •^smalL'* 



142 



THB AMBBIOAN COOK. 



The "paper shell/' or little neok olam and the 
quahog of small size are serred raw in the half 
«he'l precisely the same as oysters, and are not pro« 
iiibited in the sammer months as ovsters are. 



^^ hile the alarm of a threatened scarcity of oys 
ten IS raised regularly eyery season it is reassur- 
ing to be told, in an article by Mr. Gaston F<iy, 
^'That the culiiyation of the oyster is so well un- 
derstoody it is probable the supply will ne^er cease 
Its deterioration or scarcity is due merely to local 
oauses, and a barren bed of to-day miy so to speak, 
become a bonanza to morrow.*' ^nd thnt is written 
in the midst of a number of instances showing how 
rapidly such fishes as the striped bass, white perch 
«nd others sre disappearing And to show fcr bow 
long a time oysters haye already been abundant we 
will quote once more from Thoreau's Cape Cod, and 
then drop the subject for something else. 

"Also William Wood speaks, in his 'New England's 
I^rospect.' published in 1634, of 'a great oyster 
bank' in Charles R-yer, and of another in the Mis 
tick, each of which obstructed the nayigation of the 
riyer. 'The oysters,' says he, 'be great ones in form 
of a shoe.horn ; some be a foot long; these breed on 
certain banks that are bare eyery spring tide. This 
^sh without the shell is so big that it must admit of 
A diyision before yon can well get it into your 
mouih.' Oysters are still found there." 



Mussels, or muscles, (the dictionaries allow both 
ways of spelling) are to oysters on the British shores 
what c^Ams are with us— the second rate shell fish. 
They hang in clusters on the rooks by a *^beard," a 
moss-like filament that has to be pulled off when they 
«re cocked. Mussels are roasted in the shells, and 
flteimed or boiled. 



then put into a fish kettle and simmered in a bottle 
of champagne, and when dished, the euinne elau 
ique shows it with six diflfsrent compsrtment;! in the 
p'atier occupied with as many dififerenf accessions of 
tr«fl9f>s, mushrooms, crayfish, oys'ers ana otner 
trifles, all separately prepared. Such aisbes may 
appear at c^ub dinners and for parties to whom ex- 
pense is ni object and where baskets of cbam- 
pagne to cook fish in are as plenty as baskets of 
potatoes, but when such names appear in the menus 
of hotels wherein the fish is cut and seryed indiyid- 
uiilly there is reasonable ground for aouoting its 
au'henticity. 

This is prefatory to saying that we are going to 
take up the few ways of cooking fish and a few fishes 
for illustrations, and then will mention the others 
only to show their adaptability to either one method 
or the other. 



The number of kinds of fish that are eaten beiog 
enormous it would be a most bewildering task to 
attempt a set of different ways of cooking each one, 
fluoh as h«ye been set forth as inyentions of cooks 
•iming chiefly at ornamental effects. The inappli- 
cability of most of the elaborate foreign directions 
« hotel work is chown when we come to look oyer a 
few hundrads of bil's of fare, ranging from hotels of 
«yery c'ass, and find that all the fishes are cooked in 
the half doz"n common ways, yarie d by the changes 
lOf at the mos^ a dozen different sauces. 

Some of the "a la" styles do appear occasionally, 
but generally where the probabilities are altogether 
against the genuineness of the dish. Take, for in- 
stance ihe one that oAenest is seen, "a la Chambord.*' 
Chanibord is a department or county in France, hay- 
ing an extent of sea coast, but probably a Count de 
Cbambord was honored in naming the style A fish 
in that style is boiled, skinned, spread all oyer with 
a pasie made of pounded fish| etc., and ornamented 



865. Fried Brook Trout with Bacon. 

Proyide in an average way about one eight-ounce 
fish for each person, or each pmbable order, which 
will be about forty.nine out of fifty persons. Also a 
thin slice of bacon for each one. Open the fish 
and clean them, wash and wipe dry with a coarse 
towel. The small fishes do not need scaling. Fry 
the slices of bacon well done in a deep baking pan 
in the oyen, take them out with a skimmer. Roll 
the trout well in flour and fry them in the bacon fat 
in the same pan. Perhaps a little lard will haye to 
be added. 

Trout take from 6 to 15 minutes to fry, according 
to size. Drain them thoroughly from grease in a 
pan tilted up at one end and set in the open oyen. 
Serye a slice of bacon with each fish. 



It is a pleasant peculiarity of the speckled trout 
that the entire side or fillet par's reidily Srom the 
spine, in one piece, not a bone remaining in the meat. 
Taking adyan'sge of this the knowing ones haye 
their trout fried in this way. 



866. Boned Trout Fried with Bacon. 



J^Restaurant Order,) 



Take a trout that weighs about a pound, split it 
down the back, open and clean it, leaving the head 
and tail on but clipping off the fins, and take out 
the back bone. Score the skin in three places on 
each side. Pepper the fish slightly, place a thin 
slice of bacon inside, close up and lie the two sides 
together again with two or three turns of twine. 
Roll the fioh in flour and fry \q bot lard about 10 
minutes. Drain on a hot pan in the oyen, take off 
the t wine, dredge fine salt over, and «erve in a hot 
di h with fried parsley and quarters of lemon, and 
minced potatoes in a side dish. 



THB AMERICAN COOK. 



243 



867. Fried Parsley. 

One of the most dsirable adjuDOts to fried fiih 
served without a sauoe. Heat some lard in the 
potato fryer, but not hot enough to smoke, for too 
much heat takes aU the color oat of parsley. Put the 
parsley in the wire basket and immer8<« it in the hot 
lard about 1 minute, when it should be crisp, but 
still green. Drain it on a sheet of paper, and tel 
for a minute in the open oven. 



868. Minoed Potatoes. 



Chop cold boilf d p^'^tatoes qui'e fine and season 
irith salt. Spread a spoonful of diippirg4 or butter 
in an omelet pan or smaU frying paa and place the 
minced potatoes about an inch d ep. Cook on top 
-of the ringo like a cike, without stirring. Invert 
« plate th«t ju-t fits the pin over the potatoes. L^^t 
them brown nicely and slowly, then (urn over on 
io the plafe. Push in (he edg<» a little oil arout<d 
and serve on the same plate with the bmwn on top 
There are ovaUshaped pans th<it make these suitable 
for a platter, and even in the round frji« g pan it 
«an be managed to give the cake the flatter shape. 



The fried bacon accompaniment to (rout, bass, shad 
or perch 's, however, very repugnant to some peop'e. 
It is derived from the customs of the angler's cmp 
life, and we find it never mentioned in the French 
methods of choking fi-b, where even for larding 
several other things than bacon are used, except per- 
haps in the case of a dresiiog of a pike. The famous 
English white bait are simply rolled in flour, fried in 
hot lard, for only 1 minute, and eaten hot and 
crisp with nothing but salt Every kind «f small 
fish may be tried in the snme way. 

Says Brillat Savarin: 'Don't forget, however, 
when you have any of those trout weighing scircely 
more than a quarter of a pound, and fetched from 
streams that murmui far fr m the cnpit^l — don't 
forget, I say, to fry ihem in the very finest olive oil 
you have." This is the dish that he says properly 
served wit).* slices of lemon is fii f r a cardinal. 

This admiration f r fith ^o small, ** weighing 
scarcely more than a quarter of a pound," must be 
of the same kind as for whitebait, to be eaten bones 
tind all. 



cordiog to siz*". Dish with a border of Santoga 
potatoes around and a slice of lemon on top of the 
fish. 



870 Saratoga Chip Potatoes. 



The common broad >y sliced and f ied potatoes are 
not Saratrgas. Tl'ese are thinly hhaved, aim S' as 
thin as piper. When cut in quantities before the 
meil, as tbey generally have t) b», they must be 
kept covered with c M wiier to prevent turning 
black. It is hard y practicable to dry them on a cloth, 
as, it U Faid, the crisinal Saratogas were, but they 
will drain dry enough in a seive or colander. Throw 
a few at a time into hot lard. When fifRt thrown ia 
they sink When they rise and fl 'at thef are done, 
if colored enough. They should bo yellow and 
curled. Good ard mealy potatoes are required tc 
make good and cHxp chips Dredge a little salt c 
them af^er frying, not before. 



87L Brook Trout Breaded and Fried. 

Cleanse the trout, leave the heads and tails on, 
chop ofi the fins, wash and wipe them dry with a 
c^ean rou|rh towel. Beat some eggs— it will proba* 
biy require about 2 d zen f.jr fried fish fir 50— and 
add le^H than a f urth as much water, some salt and 
white pepper. Dip the fish in the egg, ihen in 
c acker meal, coat them well by preFsing, a'ld let 
them lie in a pan af er breading, for a little while 
before you fry. Drop ihera in h ^t lard, or frying 
fat, or (il ; cook fiom 5 to 10 nr 15 minutes accord- 
ing to size. Serve on a hot dish wih a garnish of 
parsley and slices of lemon. 



869. Plain Fried Trout with Saratoga 

Potatoes* 

Open and c'eanee the trout, wash and dry (hem 
t)etween (wo olCMn towels The fins retain ttietr red 
nolor afer frying; leavA them on as well as the 
head and (ail. Roll the fi«h ia fl mr and let (hem 
lie awhile in a pm of fi ur to get a better coating 
Drop in h it lard and fry from 5 (o 10 minutes ac 



872. Some General Remarks on Frying 

Fish. 

The Epeckled trout being always an expensive kind, 
and genera ly tbe m )st thought of by the aEglers who 
bring (htm to the hotel to be cooked, we take it for 
example, as it must < ften bo a source of d sippoint- 
ment 10 see the expected feast of "sptcklcd beau, 
ties" erne to table looking anything hut i'lviting. 
M'^st frequently the breiding comes off in patcnes, 
a!]d the fi*h instead of having a crif^p co^'ing, and a 
moist and fulUfiavored inside, looks black and greasy. 
The breading corner (ff trout because, not needing to 
be scaled, it does not get scraped free of the finhi. 
ncsi thatcjais the skin. Avtg«rou8 rubbing with 
a rough c'oih overcomes (he difficulty, but the cloth 
becomes wet and useless after a dozen or s} have 
been wiped. Either scrape the fi^h cr h«ve drj 
cloths plenty. Toe d fference often seen betwixt the 
outside skin of a fish that is cut up before frying, 
and which oc'^es rut bare of breading, and the oat 
sides which remain coated, *sh]WJ the above to ba 
true. 



244 



THE AKEBICAN COOK. 



RolUog the fish in flour before dipping in egg in. 
flures a good coatiog, but we have not bo direoted for 
the reasoQ that it takes more eggs that waj and 
uses up twice as much time before the egg will stick 
Co the flour. Tbe«e things count f jr a large number. 
There is no hmg gained hy filling the pans with too 
many fi<h at once. Thej reduce the heat of the 
frjiog flit and fry bad)y« The fat should be hot 
enough to hiss sharply when a drop of water touches 
it« but not hot enough to smoke. 



Nt>t ling since a remark appeared in a New York 
publication devoted to such subjects of a corres 
pondent who said there is only one way to cook a 
speokled trout — meaning only one way that it ought 
to be cookfd^and thit was to roll it in fggand corn 
meil. Ihat is a dashing*, off hand wity of stating 
a thing but the one way wouldu't fit everywhere. 

There are people enough who like orn meal bread- 
ing better than cracker dust, but nei her cooks nor 
any one else will choose it where the appearance of 
the article fried is cared for Pieces of bread dried 
in a warm p!aoe csn be crushed into a sort of meal 
And used for breading, and it is eoonf^mical to do so, 
but the color is bad even of that, and not like the 
golden brown of the crack er.meal breading. 



It is an advan'age, when the fish has been nicely 
fried, to have it ornamented a little with parsley, 
young celery leaves, cre^p, water cress or cut li^mons 
— whatever be obtainable — for it looks as if some- 
body oared for the appetrince of the table, not for* 
getting that quartered I mons to squeezi over trout 
are a luxury. But there is seldom any one to do the 
garni'ihing at a fishing resort unless the W'^iters are 
Allowed wbi'e waiting fur their orders. They are 
generally an xir us enough to. '*fix up" their dishes 
if tbe ma'erials are placed ready, and the city hotel 
rules rblaxed sufficiently. 



873. Plain Fried Potatoes. 

A good garnish for fried fi^h. S ice the potatoes 
thicker than Saratoga chips, and fry till they float 
and are yellow. Place them in the fi*h dish as a 
border. 



874. Fried Mackinaw Trout— Breakfast 

or Supper. 

Scale and cleanse the fish, split down the back and 
take cut the back bone. Cut the fish in pieces, 
dredge with salt and pepper, roll the pieces well in 
flour and fry in hot fat. Time 8 or 10 minutes. 
Fish is best when ju^t cooked through to the center 
and not dried ont, unless when the order isf jr small 
flsh done to a crisp. 



876. Maokinaw Trout Fried in Effffs. 

Skin the trout, beginning at the gills. It can be- 
done with a little help of a hharp knif , To dip the 
fish in hot water makes it < nsier. Take out the back 
bone, tut the fish, if fur breakfast, in suitable 
piece**, and dry Ikcm on a cloth Dredge with salt. 

About one egg for every pound cf fi^h is leeded. 
Beat up without adding at y water. Dip Irfae fish in 
tbe egg. roll in flour, then in egg again and fry in 
lard not very hot. If carefully fried wi hout toa 
much heat fish looks richer this wny than any other. 
It is of a yellow brown color. Ihis is one of the 
methods f.r frying in sweet oil. Garnish with, 
parsley. 



876. Fried Blaok Bass. 

For ordinary restaurant orders the fish should he- 
selected weighing about one pound each. Scale and 
cleanse them, roll well in flour a* d f y. For occa- 
sional orders it answers t> fry them in a frying pan 
only half full of fit, care being taken that a black 
burnt section does not appear where the thick part 
of the fish touches the p^n Garnish with sliced 
lemon, and fried or plain parsley, and potatoes. 



877. Broiled Trout with Bacon* 



Split a small trout and take out the back bone and 
place a thin slice of bacon inside. Broil the trcnt 
in the wire broil r over a bed of clear coals. Gar. 
nlsh the dish with parsley, and send in a dish ot 
saute potatoes. 



878. Potatoes Sautes, or Dutch Fried. 



Slice oo'd boiled potatoes, not very thin, ard brown 
them in a targe Irying pan, slowly, at the side of the 
range, with only enough frying fat in the pan to 
keep the bottom moist, v hen brown at bottom, 
shake them over. Dredge a little salt. 



879. Broiled Trout, a la Colbert. 

Scrape and cleanse the trout and take out the- 
back bone. Brush over with a touch of butter to 
prevent eticking and broil it in natural shape over 
clear coals. When done open the fish and put in » 
slice oC maitre d* hotel butter. Garnish with lemon 
and fried parsley. If not inclosed in a wire broiler^ 
or if a large fish in any case score the skin on both 
sides to prevent curling. 



Simple as the word Colbert is I have recentlj 
seen it misspelt in two or three bills of Ikre. It 
is the name of a French statesman who kept 
good cooks and g%ve dinners. Maitre d' hotel is m 
clumpy term for us to use, and some are translatiof 



THE AMEBICAK COOK. 



245 



It siewHrd. which it literally meftnp, 00 that oold 
maiiM d' hotel sauoe, or butter, becomes steward 
Siuce. An auifaoritj on eookiog says the principle 
of c lolling a la maitre d* hotel is in the mixture of 
add with green herbs, which, howcTer, is not ei- 
plaiDing much. Th«*re are two ainces of the name, 
and beside lh%t there is a wny of rolling a nicely 
boiled fi^h in chopped parsley and fennel,, squeezing 
lemon juice ell over it and then pouring a rich 
cre>im sauce around it, and it makes a very prf tty 
di«b when the fidh U of a suitable sort, a shad, carp, 
or whitefish. 



880. Maitre d* Hotel Butter or Cold 

Sauce. 

8 ounces of batter. 

2 lemoDS— juice only. 

Small bunch of parsley. 

Little cayenne. 

Soften the butter, sqneese in the lemon juice a 
little at a time,- stirring tilt the butter absorbs it, add 
the cayenne and the parsley chopped small. Keep 
in a cold place. 



. Broiled Whiteflsh. 



Take small ones for choice, scale, trim, split them 
in haWeSi take out the back bone and divide each 
half in two. Wash in cold water and dry them. 
Lay on a plate and brush over with the butter brush. 
Broil in the hinged wire broiler over a clear fire, till 
brown on both sides. Brush over with butter agtin, 
dredge.with fine salt, seud to table hot, with potatoes. 



882. Frizzed or Shoestrincr Potatoen* 

Slice raw potatoes thin and out them in shreds, lo 
■ise from a shoestring to a peocil, but all alike, and 
the longer the better. Fry in hot lard. Drain and 
sprinkle with salt. Serve as a border with broiled 
fish. 



883. Broiled Striped Bacs. 

Sctle, elean^e, pplit in halves and take out the 
back bone. Fibh done this way are said to be fil- 
leted, the two sidfs being called fillets. Fil-ets of 
bass rsyee, a la maitre d* hotel, a favorite dish for 
fine dinnere, are these sides buttered and broiled 
Mfed Mrrad with maitre d* Hotel butter. 



884. To Broil a Shad Whole. 

Scale the fi«h and pull out the fills, and draw it 
without ripping open. Wash and wipe it dry. Mix 
a little butler, pepper and salt together, put a smal) 
portion inside the fish, and spread the rest upon the 
«itafde, roll it in two turns of oiled or buttered 



piper and broil it high above the coa*s ab<KJt 20 
minutes. When done open out, lay on a hot dish, 
and mark it with a red hit iron wire. 

Manilla paper should be used. Paper well greased 
will stand a good deal of heat without being 
destroyed. To prevent dripping the butter and 
gravy double in the ends of the paper and ftsten 
with a pin. Throw coarse salt on the coals to put out 
a blase. The fi^h m<iy be served with a sauce or 
wiih a surrounding of green peas, potatoes, toast or 
fried cruets. 



Roe shad bring about one-third more than tl:e 
others in market, the roe sells in the restaurants for 
as much as the* fish. It has a sweet mealy taste 
when fried. 



885. Fried Shad Roe. 



Take out the roe without breaking it out of shape 
and let lie in cold water till wanted. Wipe dry, roll 
it in flour and fry in a little lard in a pan the same 
as fish. 

Shad roe can also be breaded whole; parboiled 
and then split and breaded and fripd crisp; or 
scrambled with butter in a frying pan and an egg or 
two added ; and it may be boiled and served with 
cream sauce. The plain fry is the best way. 



Planked shad is an Americap dish that is eaten 
out of doors, by a camp fire, on the river bank, in 
the spring of the year. Daniel Webster was fond of 
planked shad and he knew an old uncle who could 
OM>k it better than aayl>ody else. But ihey alwaye 
prepared it out of dcore. It does not belong te 
hotel cooking. 



886. Broiled Spanish Maokerel^Boyal 

Sauce. 

Cut the fish, if over one pound in weight, in four 
pieces, first splitting it down the back and taking out 
the bone. Dry it on a cloth. Dredge with salt and 
pepper. For each fish mix together two raw yolks 
of eggs and an equal amount of olive oil, roll the 
pieces (fillets) of fish in the egg mixture and then 
in fine bread crumbs (not cracker.meal) and broil 
carefully on^top of the wire broiler. Spanish mack* 
erel can of course be broiled plain like any other 
fish as weP. It is a searoer and dearer fish thaa 
tike common mackerel. 



887. Royal Fish Sauoe« 

4 ounces of fresh hotter. 

8 raw yolks of eggs. 

8 tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. 

2 tablespoon fuls of India soy. 

1 green gherkin finely minced. 

Little onyenne and sa't. 



246 



THE AKEBICAK COOK. 



Stir the eggs and butter together ia a little eauca 
pan over the fire till the yolks thicken slightly, 
taking care not to let them cook hard. Take it off 
and stir in the othei ingredients gradually. Set in 
« cold place and serve sliced cold with fish. 



888. Broiled Fresh Maokerel. 



Split the fish down the back, take out the bone, 
cut in four pieces if for hotel service, wash, and dry 
on a cloth. Brush over each piece with the butter 
brush and broil in the hinged wire broiler. Brush 
•over with a touch of fresh butter when done. 



880. The Mystery of the Fillet. 

Probably we can do nothing more useful here 
than explain a matter that has never been explaioed 
before in set phrase, and is a source of evident con- 
fusion, not only among some cooks, and others con. 
cerned in cooking, but among the frequenters of 
restaurant and hotel tables. 

The word fillet is used in cookery in its broadest 
meaoing of a band or strip, and is strict in Fence 
ODiy in one point, that it always means meat without 
any bone. It does not always mean the same piece 
of meat in every animil, and it docs not follow that 
because the fillet of beef is the tenderloin that a 
fillet of fish can be called a tenderloin like 
wise. When our big cook books that mystify mare 
than they teach tell us to bone a fillet of veal they 
<io not mean the tenderloin of veal only but the 
whole of the loin, the tenderloin being called the 
under or small fillet. The same with mutton and 
other small meats. A fillet of rabbit is the saddle 
of rabbit with the bone out. A fillet of fowl is 
the breast of fowl, but as that has a natural 
division each fowl furnishes four fillets accord- 
ing to cooks' talk, tbe upper fillet or portion of 
the breast, apd the minion fillet or division cf the 
breast th^t is nearest the breast bone. So with fish: 
the fillet first is the whole side of a fish free from 
bone, but technically any boneless piece of fish of 
considerable size is spoken of as a fillet (strip) of 
fish. When a bill of fare announces fillets of fish in 
any style it simply means sides of fish cut off clear 
from the bone. And that is not quite the same as a 
slice or a steak. 



the meat. It takes two perch to make a dish where 
one of some other kinds would do. 



890. Lake Herrlnff. 

Either f>y or broil it in any way that is directed 
for trout and other kinds. 

This is an excellent fish of the trout family, hav- 
ing the same fins and the same freedom from small 
bones. It is while, both scales and flesh. 



801, Fresh Water Peroh. 

Good pan fish. Fry and serve with baoon. The 
bonta are not troublesome but large in proportion to 



8G2. Smelt's Sauteed In Brown Butter. 

Or, Au Beurre Notr, 

Pull out the gills and cleanse the fish, wash and 
wipe dry and roll them in flour. Fifty of these small 
fish will take over a pound of butter. A very short 
time before they are wanted melt a part of the 
butter in a large frying pan, lay in the fish in close 
order, and let the* butter and fish brown together but 
not get black. Turn over when half done, cook 
only as they are wanted, a panful at a time, adding 
more butter with each relay. The butter froths over 
them while cooking and they should be sent to table 
before it subsides, with potato pancakes, or oro» 
quettes, or toast in the same dish. 

The smelt is a sea fish, but is caught in fresh 
waters. It can be cooked in all the wayi previously 
mentioned. The foregoing does for any kind of 
small fish as welL 



8G3. Potato Pancakes to Serve with 

Fish, Bto. 

1 pound bf mashed potato. 

8 ounces of butter. 

1 cupful of milk. 

8 yolks and 6 whites. 

Salt. 

Mash the potatoes through a colander, work the 
butter in while warm, and the milk and yolks. 
Whip the whites firm and stir in just before frying 
Cook in omelet pans like sweet pancakes; roll up, 
place in the dish diagonal y with a fish on each 
side. A spoonful of fl mr is needed in the mixture 
when the potatoes are not of a mealy sort. 



894. Grayllnff. 



Cook it in all the ways directed for brook trout. 
It runs about the same size from eight ounces to 
three pounds. 

The grayling like the trout and the mullet posses- 
ses an inieiest apart from its value as food, which it 
is pertinent here to mention because it has lately 
been discovered inhabiting the lakes and rivers of 
the northwest, whereas ii had been regarded as pecu- 
liar to Europe hifjre. Old Izaac Walton mentions 
it: "St Ambrose, the glorious bishop of Mi'an, who 
lived when the church kept fasting days, calls the 
grayling the fl)Wtr fish; and son;e think that ho 
feeds on the sweet watei thyme" Another tells 
us the grayling is one of the few fishes of the 
gkcial period still in existence. A home authority 
say^: "He has only very recently been discovered to 
be a dweller in certain American waters as well. 
They are quite abundant in many of the streams of 



THE AMEBICAI7 COOK. 



247 



Michigan, and, it is said, in a few tributaries ofLike 
Superior so well. H iwever this may be, ii is cer ain 
that the rivers of Miobigan, particularly the north 
em ones, are the chief abtdiog places of the gray- 
ling, and here he was discbvered and the event an. 
nounced to a doubting public, fiztensive and sys 
temat c efforts are now being mnde to introduce the 
new ciiuer into many end remote waters and there 
is no dnubt tba*. he will thrive in any suitable trout 
stream ** 



ThesCi and pimilar attractions, go to make up the 
business ( f summer resort hotels. Let us in pas>ing 
snatch another ''flower fish** simile from Thoreau 
The epithet applied to the grayling is for i s great 
curved fins and its brilliaot hues. This refers to 
another kind: 

Anou their cousius, (he true trout, took their turn, 
and a temat e'y the speckled trout, and the silvery 
roaches, swa lowed the bait as fast as we couM throw 
in ; and the fi lest specimens of both that I have 
ever seen, ih^ l>irge^t one weighing three pounds 
were heaved upon the shore. While yet alive, be- 
fore their tints had faded, they glistened like the 
fairest fl)wers the product of primitive rivers; and 
he c uld hardly trust his senses, as he stood over 
them, thit these jewels should have swnm away in 
that AboIj;icknagesic water for so many dark ages ; 
these bright fluviatile fl >wers, seen of Indians only, 
made beautiful, the Lird on'y knows why, to swim 
there. But therein the rough voice of Unc^e Qe rge» 
who commands at the frying-pan to send over what 
you've go*, and then you may stay till morning 
The pork sizzles and cries f >r fish 



»> 



895. Cisco. 



Either fry or broil it in any way that is directed 
for trout or any sm ill fish. 

The ci^co and lake herring are Tarieties of the 
same family of firthes, the cisco being the smaller 
and darker of the two. 



The following we quote from **Fi8k and Fishing,^* 
as having relation to our summer resoit business: 

'The ciFCo found in the Wi.«consin and Iodian<t 
lakes, particularly the f)rmpr, inhabits deep water 
through almo t the entire ye-<r, and is rare'y met 
with except during a ve'-y brief season in June. 
Then he makrs up for his former absence by appear- 
ing literally in countless number;*, rising t) the 
surface in pursuit of a fl^ ca'led the «*cisc) fly, ' 
which abounds duiing an tqually btief season iu 
June. 

ImmediVely on the appearance of the cisco fly 
rapid prepir^tions are mide for the approaching 
sport. Old fi hermen claim to prognosticate the 
abundance or reverse of the cisco by the number of 
flies, saying 'Many flies, many fish,** or the opposite 



At Geneva Lake, Wisconsin, perhaps the roost 
n'>ied cisco resort, the fish appear first in one portion 
of the l«ke, gradually working towards the opposite- 
extremity. Hecce, whi'e fishing is ai i's height in 
one locality, there are on^y scattering fi.h at another 
point but a short distarice removed The next day^ 
the host has passed from its haunts of yesterday, 
leaving only a few ptragg'ers behind A few days- 
later, their curse bein tn completed, they almof 
wholly disappear, returning to the deepest portions 
of the lakes, and thence onward until the arrival or 
the next cisco season, the sportsman may fi^h a 
month without seeing a single individual. 

But whi'e the season lasts the sport is fast and 
furious. Ihe residents at the lake telegriph to 
friends and habitues {*r and near that the fi-ih have 
appeared, and the telegram must be responded to- 
promptly or not at all. 

On arrival, the fisherman takes a bc^t, and, pro* 
vided with a bamboo pole, a common linen line, and 
perch hooks, rowa out to where the cchol is then 
lying. Billing with the abundant cisco fly, he casts, 
and almost bcfoie the flies have reached the water 
they are seized upon by the eager fi h. Then, until 
he is f<iirly satiated, he has only to throw out his line^ 
and haul in the beauties. 

On the table, the cisco is delicious eating, its flesh 
being white and translucent. In the hotels and res- 
taurants of Chicago they have become a favorite item 
in the bills of fare." 



And the following we quote from a ladies' fashion: 
paper. The way vt cooking trout described in the sec- 
ond instance — <*however odd** — is the well-known,, 
primitive Indian barbecue; the potting method ought 
to be tried with our home cisco in the season of its 
abundance: 

**One of the greatest charms of trout fishing i» 
the satisfactory culinary result of the arousemeot; 
and we now intend to give a little information re- 
garding trout as a tible luxury, which of itself 
might tempt m>nyaladyto take a rod and goa- 
fidhing. Every one who has been in EngLnd, and 
many people who have not been there, have heard of 
the ftmous delicacy, associated with the Eng isb 
lakes, called potted char. Now potted ch»rii. as 
often as not, potted trout. The di-tiuc ion be* ween 
the fish is difficult to determine, ar.d oi e fish \s quite 
as delicate as the other The following t-impe re< 
cipe for its preparation wa^ given us by the land, 
lady of the famous Ferry Inn ut Ambleside- one of 
the most noted makers of the de icncy liv.ng: 

896« 'Tabe one d( zen cbar (or tr ut), dress» 
and wipe wi^h a dry cloth; s'rew a little f-alt in and 
over them, and let thrm lie all night; then wipe- 
again with a dry cloth, and season w>ih one ounce 
of white pepper, one-quarter ounce of cayenne, one- 
hilf ounce of pounded cloves, and a pinch of mace. 
Clarify two pounds of butter; then put the fish, with 



248 



THB ASCBBICAN COOK. 



their backs down, in a pot lined with piper, pour 
the butter over them, end bake four hours in » slow 
oven." 

Aod DOW that we are on the subject of etting 
trout, we will add a delicate and de icious wny of 
dressing trout at the water edgp, invariably adopted 
by the hungry anglers in the Cumberland daleo— 
one, however odd, that on'y nfeds to be tried onoe 
in order to be adopted by acclamation. We will, of 
oourse. suppose that a little bread, butter, and salt 
have been tak^n in ihe creel, or basket. If there 
has been this forethought, then let yonr attendant 
collect a lot of Email dry wood, and set it on fire. 
When a sufficient quantity of ashes has been ob 
tained, take a nheet of paper-- an old newspaper 
will do— wet it thoroughly, shike off the drops of 
water, fill the mouh of the fish with salt, wrap 
him up in the wet paper, and bury him in the ashes. 
In ten or fifteen minutes uncover him, and if he is 
fluffictently done, the skin will come off eotite with 
the paper, and the trout lie ready for eating, as 
white or pink as rose. 

If we hive have said enough to induce some lady 
to buy a rod and become a disciple of the "gentle 
cmf^," W9 shall have added somewhat to the happi- 
ness of the world.*' 



a07. Broiled Salmon Steak with New 

Potatoes. 



One of the greatest luxuries that can be provided 
for a fine breakfast or di ner, not only for its high 
price but because the ealmou is called the king of 
fishes. 

Slice the fish with a sharp knife and sever the 
bore in the center by striking the point of the knife 
with a hammer — not to break or tear the meat. L'ty 
the steaks in a bright tin pan or dish, dredge with 
pepper and salt, brush them over with olive oil, if 
you can, or wii)i c*e<ir melted butter and let them lie 
till wanted. Then broil in the hinged wire broiler 
same as beefsteaks, about 10 minutes. Dish up on 
a large plattf r hot. Have some new potatoes ready 
boi*ed, cut them in quarters lengthwise ard place 
them as a border around the steak. Shake a tea- 
spoonful of chopped p^irnley over the ra'mon s*eak, 
melt a piece of fre^h bu'ter in an omplet pin and 
pour it hot over it, squeeze the juice of half a 
lemon over that. Place three or four green tufls of 
parsley among the potatoes in the border and send 
it in. 



The above is a la Tuaitre <f hotel by a short order 
method, sui'able for a dish for a pavty, of almost any 
kind of broiled fish. A restaurant order for one is 
commonly a salmon steak weighing from eight to 
twelve ounces. A party dish may take three or four 
mch. It takes at least fifteen pounds {pross of salmon 



for broiled steaks for breakfast for fifty, in hotel 
service. People generally cmnot eat as much of 
this rich fish as of other kinds and the individual 
steaks need not be large when the fish la only one 
item in the meal. 

898. Broiled Trout Steak— HoUandaiae 

The largest lake trout are used to slice and broil 
the same as salmon Serve the ste<&lis in the same 
way, or with hoi andaise sauce poured around; or, 
if individual small portions, with the sauce at one 
end of the dish. It is not pensiVe to p-^ur a sauce 
of decided flavor and pungency upon the fish for the 
many who would rat)ier have it iihout. 



Most, if not all, of the old established favorite 
sauces have c*ime do»n to us in two forms, the orig- 
inal French and the modified English; the pungent 
and the mild; it might almost be said the costly and 
the cheap, but it is too plain that the cheaper form 
is generally liked the better without regard to any 
difference of cost. It may seem trite to say it but it 
is necessary: the cook sh')uld be equally prepared 
and equally willing to make them ei her way, and if 
he finds, as is generally the case, that the cheaper 
form suits beH for the hotel table he can reserve the 
more expensive, or the more concentrated, pungent 
or vinous form for particular or private lequire* 
ments. 



809. HoUandaise Sauoe— French Way. 

1 teacupful of vinegar. 

1 teaspoonful of black pepper-oorns. 

^ cupful of fresh butter. 

8 yolks of eggs. 

Small piece of broken nutmeg. 

Salt, if not enough in the butter. 

Bruine the pepper.corns so that the flavor can bo 
drawn and boil them and the scrap of nutmeg in 
the vinegar a few minutes. Then strain it into an- 
other saucepan, throw in half the butter and boil 
it ag^in. Beat the yolks a little, pour part of (be 
boiling vinegar to them gradually, then turn all into 
the siuccpnn and stir it on the fire. There is noth* 
ing very particular about making this sauce, but the 
one point of knowing when to stop the cooking. 
About one minute after it is set on (he fire with (he 
yolks in it thickens to (he onsistency and appear- 
ance of good may)nai«e or soft butter, immediately 
after that it brccraes thinner, and although not tbea 
quite sp-iilf d it is not perfect or fit for a fine dish* 
When the sauce is at that thickest point drop in half 
tie remaining butter and keep beating with the wir« 
egg whisk till it is dissolved — still on the side of the 
range — then take it off and beat in the butter re- 
maining. Salt if needed. 



THB AXBBZCAH COOK. 



24» 



^0O« Hollandaiaeflaaoe^BofflishWay. 

Make good butter esuoe, or drawo Imtter ss it is 
«%Ued, color it yellow with yolks of eggs and lei 
tbem cook ia it enough to thicken but n t boil, and 
4>eat in a little more butter. Squeeze in the juioe of 
<one or two lemoos, and add a pinch of cayenne. 



GOt Oriffinal Dutoh or HoUandaiae 

Bauoe* 

1 or 2 yolks of eggs. 

1 cupful of butter. 

^ cupful of vinegar. 

Pioch of cayenne. , 

FlaToring of any kind of tsble sauoe, anchoTy 
essence, soy, or flavored ▼inegar. 

No cooking is required, but ibe sauce is mnde with 
a knowledge of the fact that butter will mix with » 
liquid ftt the right temperature. Soften the bu ter 
^ut not melt it. Hive the vinegar near *y milk- 
warm. Siir a spoonAil of vinegar into the butter, 
and when that is absorbed edd another, and after 
that the yolk of an egg. Th n more vinegar, the 
favoring of table since and another yolk. Msy be 
used as soon as mixed, or kept cold till wanted. 



G02. Broiled Pompano— Tkrtar Sauoe. 

The pompano is a southern sea fish somewhat rare 
and high priced It has a decided flavor of its own 
Ihat suggests the tsstf* of black wslnuts when broiled* 
It has the flattened shape of the sunfish and soalis 
almost as fine as those of the mackerel. 

Scrape the skin thorough' y. The smalleit sise, 
weighing about one pound, may be broiled whole in 
the wire broiler pre?ioo8ly greased. Split the large 
ones down the b'ck and through the head Broi 
the cut side first — 8 or 10 minutes— brush over with 
fre^h butter and dredge with salt and pepper, then 
broil tbe skin side till done. Serve on a hot dish 
Squef z^ a little lemon juice over, and serve cold 
tartar sauce 'in a sauce boat separately, or, for indi- 
vidual orders, the hot tartar sauce in the same dish 



903. Tartar Saiioe, Oold. 



Is mayonaise pauce with finely minced onion or 
•oives and green pichled gherkin or chopped tarragon 
miied in, and a g^od pinch of cayenne pepper. (See 
Nos. 693 and 738.) 



904. Tartar Sauoe, Hot. 

1 (eacupful of vinegar. 

1 basting-poonful of olive oil. 

1 ounce of butter. 

1 tablespoonful of finely minced onion. 

8 yolks of eggs. 



Little minced pickled gl erkin and elves. 

Salt and cayenne. 

Boil the onion in the vinegar a few minutes, throw 
in tbe butter and yolks and beat till it cooks thick- 
one minute. Take it ttom the fire and whip in thw 
oil gradually, and tbe seasoninge. 



905. Halibut Steak—Sauce Robert. 

Dip the slices of halibut in flour and saut^ them 
with a little drippings or butter in a trying p<in« 
like the common frying of beefsteak, and serve with 
the sauce at the side in the s^ime dish. 



006. Oatflsh Steaks. 

Citfish especial 'y needs to be well done. It is 
more oily than halibut and somewhat slow to cook. 
It may be plMoly sauteed, or floured and fHed, or 
breaded; or broiled plain. A good sauce is an 
advantage to it. 

Rnbelais mentions the originator of the sanoe 
Robert in such word&as these: '*Arid Robert, another 
conk, who gave us the sauce, that is good with fish 
and capon and grilled bones," etc. Another writer 
refers to him as ''Robert, one of the Parisian gastro* 
nomic masters." Pauce Robert briefly and simply 
U brown meat gravy containing lightly fried onion 
and garlic, or one or the other, and mustard, vina> 
gar and pepper. 

007. Sauoe Robert— French Way. 

2 bastiDgepoonfols of olive oil. 

2 cloves of garlic 

2 small onions. 

1 basiingppoonful of vinegar. 

J teaspoon ful of white pepper. 

} pint of espignole sauce, or brown gravy. 

1 tablespoonful of made mustard. 

Stew the onions and garlic, cut Fmall, in tbe oli 
tiU they are tender and beg'n to color. Pour off th« 
oil; add to the onions a spoonful of broth or water 
and a spoonful of vinegar and the ground pepper. 
Simmer a little longer, then add the ladleful of brown 
sauce, boil and skim and at last mix in the mustard. 



908. Eteiuce Roberc-^Enfflish Way. 

Fry a minced onion in very little fresh butter n 
the aide of the range, only till light yellow, and not 
in the least browd. Put in a ladleful of brown sauce 
slightly dilu ed with stock, and throw in a little 
pepper. Let simmer a while and add a spoonful of 
vinegar. Tbe butter when it boils again wil cone 
to the top and can be skimmed off if desired, but 
need not be when the sauce is for a dry kind of fish* 
At last mix in a tablespoonful of mustard moi-<tene4k 
with vinegir. The mustard should not cook in iW 



250 



THE AMEBICAN COOK. 



909, Chutney Sauoe. 

V^d. to mix with fi^h sauces and graTies. It is 
an article of the same order as tomato keiohup. Ta- 
basco sauce, chili sauce and the like. It is bruught 
forward here because the time to make it is at 
hand, as it needs siur apples. 

1 pound each of sour apples, figs, tomatoes, brown 
sugar and salt 

1 ouiiice of oiyenne pepper. 

1 ounce of ground ginger. 

2 ounces of garl'C, 
2 ouuoes of onions 

1 qn^rt of lemon juice. 

8 quarts of vinegar. 

Pound all the articles of the first part, and the 
garlic and onions together in a mortar, mix in the 
ground pepper and ginger, put the pulp in a jar, 
mix in the lemon juice and yinegir and set the j«r 
in a place warm enough to raisa bread Keep it (here 
for A month, stirring the miziure twice a Jay. Puur 
off the top liquor and keep it tightly corked in bortles 
for seasoning fi^h sauces; put the chutney— the 
thiok bottom portion — in wide-moutbed bottles for 
table use. 



Bordelaise is of Bordeaux Bordelaise^ siuoe is 
Bordeaux wine sauce, and that wine is olaret. A 
few French terma have, through some chance asso 
ciaMons, been taken up and are perpe'ually repeated, 
often with litile similarity of meaning, by those who 
speak of cooking, while the articles they stand f^r are 
inconsequential, but the admirers of the olaret sauce 
or the fish cooked partially in olaret or sauterne 
are numerous and enthusiastic wbil<» the term for such 
is scarcely to be beard beyond a very limited oiro'e. 
A special affection for the vtn de Bordeaux must 
have possessed Sir Walter Scott, for he seems never 
to have let an opportuoiiy pass of mentioning it in 
his novelS'in the cargoes of the smugglers, in the 
cellars of the Sco'tish gentlemen, and on th^ir hos 
pitable tables^and his liking fjr Bordelaise sauce 
is as evidently shown in various places as the liking 
of Thackeray for crerne au maratquin <'Tbe ducks' 
— he say^i, in Ouy Mannennff-^* mere roasted to a 
single turn, and the sauce, of clare^, lemon, and 
ciyeane was beyond all praise." But did even he, 
or his friend Thackeray when they dined together at 
the London clubs, as thf-y oAen did afterwards, re- 
cognize the *'claret, lemon and cayenne," sauce in 
the B 'rdela'se they und'mbtedly were served with, 
after the club cooks had thrown in their extra fluvor- 
ings? Prubably they did, if the cooks were discreet 
in their seasonings, not to destroy the main ch<irac- 
terislic of the sauce. For there has to be a mixture, 
or the sauce would lack coneislence. At CjI. Man- 
Bering's table the claret, lemon, and cayenne were 
mixed with the savory gravy of the brace of wild 
ducks. It had long before been discovered that a 



little puree of .pounded h«m mixed with meat gravy 
makes a fioe eombinati >n, whei the gnvy of duck, 
is not at h^nd, and since that it has been trit-d ooi 
with the lean of the cmpaa-iveiy recent sugars 
cured ham if Amenca with such sav try results that 
the B irdf UibS id getting further beyond all praisft 
than ever 

010. Bordelaise Sauoe for Fish and 
Broiled Meat a. 



2 ladlefa^B of espagoo e or brown sauce. 

1 ladleful uf claret. 

1 c ove of gar ic 

^ab«yleHf. CliV s. Mace. 

L3an bam. 

1 lemon. Pepper-corns or cyenne. 

Pick fome lean meat from the knuckle bone of a. 
boiled h m. taking care ihat it is sweet, freshly cut 
and free from smoked uutside,poun'i it to shreds in ihe^ 
SAucepan, and boil it wiih the wine a->d brown sauce. 
Throw in the piece of bay leaf, two cloven, pepper 
and half a blade of mace. When nearly a third 
has boiled aiiay strain the s^uce into ano her sauce 
pin, let simmer and »>kira it. Pour in a spoonfu' 
more of olaret, mixed wi'h <he jui?e of the I«mon,. 
to brighten and ojear the sauce, and skim when it 
boiU up again. If for broiled fi:?h add in the boiU 
iog a flavoring of one pounded anchovy, or some- 
essence to the since at last. 



Oil. About Orimpinff Fish. 



This is an operation generally beyond the cook's^ 
province, but dep ndent upon the fi'therman for its 
performance. There is reason to believe that Tery^ 
vague ideas of what is meant by crimped firsh .pre- 
vail among the g^nerility of oioks and other writers 
f bi Is cf fare. Trout and Sainton should be cooked 
the same day they are eaught. When fir&t taken, if 
they are to be in the m^st perfect condition when 
cooked, the fish should be iostantl7 killed by a blow 
on the head, incisions cut in the sides down to the> 
bone and about two inches ap<irt, nod it should 
then be placed in very c Id water for two hours. 
The result is the fl<i»h beoomps firm a'most to cri(p- 
ness, through ontraction of the fibres, and eoagula*. 
tion In the case of salmon it U recommended to 
cut it in steaks at ino<*, as S'^on as killed, and let 
them lie in the cold Rpiing water, or under a 6tre<im> 
from a pump till they can be cooked. That is crimps 
ing fish. It makes it flaky when boi-ed and pre- 
serves a certain crearoiness between the flakes and a 
r'chness (f flavor that passes away from fish long^ 
ke^'t. The colder the water that is used the better. 
Crimped fish needs a shorter time to cnok than the* 
plain, it should be put on in boiling water, and not 
allowed to remain in it a minute after it is done, 
wl.'ich may be in six or eight miuutes for a slice or 
frteak atd fifteen to thirty for a whole fish. 



"'v _ 



THE AKEBICAN COOK. 



251 



912 Boiled Bed Snapper* Shrimp Sauce. 

The firm.fleshed fishes, of whioh this is one, and 
the groupers from the same southern waters are 
others, are a little better io boil than to bake, and 
rather to be chosen for boiling than the softer lake 
trout They also need a little more time to oook in, 
regard being bad to the weight and thickness. Scale 
and elean the fish and let it lie in a pan of cold 
water till wanted. Half fill the fish kettle with hot 
water, or part stock. Throw in a spoonful of salt, 
a small bay leaf, a sm«ll onion with six olores stuck 
in it, a bunch of parsley, and half a cup of vinegar 
and let ii boil. 

Three-quarters of an hour before dinner put in 
the fish and cook it at the side of the range about 35 
minutes. L*ft it out on the drainer of the kettle 
and lake oflf the skin of the upper side. 

Dish up small portions on plates, with a spoonful 
of shrimp sauce poured over and a small spoonful of 
mashed potato on the same plate. 

It takes from 12 to 15 pounds gross for the orders 
of about 50 perspns, where there is but one kind of 
fish. 



913. Shrimp Sauoe* 

Batter sauoe colored light yellow with egg yolk, 
wi h a little lem )n juice in it, and shrimps. 
1 quart of water or stock. 
6 ounces of batter — about a cupful. 
3 ounces of flour — small cupful. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

2 yolks of eggs* 
Juice of h%lf a lemon. 

1 can of Barataria shrimps. 

Put half the butter in a saucepan with all the 
flour and 8tir them over the fire till mixed and bub- 
bling. Then add the boiling water gradually and 
stir while it cooks smooth and rather thick. Drop 
in the other h<i]f the butter, take it from the fire, 
put in the yolks and beat till the butter is melted. 
Add the lemon juice and shrimps. 



914. Boiled Ckxiflsh or Haddock, Oyster 

auoe* 

Boil in plain salted water generally about half an 
hour, or till the meat of the fish will leave the back 
bone. Serve with the white oyster sauoe, No. 853. 



915. Boiled Piokerel, Butter Sauoe. 

Boil it slowly at the side of the range half an 
hour or more nccordiog to size. The stock it is 
boiled in should he seasoned with saV, vinegar and 
a piece < f horsemdinh chopped in pieces. The skin 
of the fi'ih c%n be pushed off when it is dished up, 
and a spoonful of good bu'ter sauce poured over 
each portion of the white fish in the plates The 
pickerel oomes from one pound to teo, ia weig t, 



usually, but i$ often seen of ^much larger sise., 
Though a fine fish, solid and meaty, for some reas >i» 
it is not as generally saleable or taken for choice a» 
a number of other large kinds are. 

'*He was a good man, an eioellent man: he ha<l 
the best melted butter I efer tasted in my lif«**— - 
was the eulogy pronounced upon a deceased Englisb 
Biron. by an emineut Queen's counsel and member 
of parliament. 

This universally serviceable "melted butter," th» 
one sauce of the English, and the beginning of la 
number of others is a source of much difficulty for 
the hotel cook, because of its cost, as it consists, if 
m<ide according to rule, of about one-half batter, 
and that must be of very good quality. 



916. Butter Sauoe. 

Drawn Buttery or Melted Butter, 

1 quart of clear straioed broth or water. 

8 ounces of butter, or more. 

4 ounces of flour. 

Salt, if not enough in the butter. 

Take a large basting spoonful of butter— about 4 
ounces — and the same measure of sifted flour and 
stir them toge:her in a saucepan over the fire. When 
well mingled and bubbling from the bottom begia 
and add the boiling water or brotha little at a time» 
stirring till all is in and the sauce has cooked thick 
and smo}lh. Take it from the fire and beat in the- 
other half the butter a portion at a time and do not 
let it boil agHin. It looks glossy and smooth as sofk 
butter ; may need thinning down for some purposes^ 
such as for parsley sauoe, etc. 

917. Butter Sauoe Substitute. 



1 quart of clear-strained soup ^took. 

Flour and-water thickening. 

Butter size of an egg. 

Salt. 

Thicken the stock to tl^e right consistency and add 
salt. Take it from the fire and be^t in the butter, 
which takes away the transpaiency and whitens it. 
If not slightly yellow from the butter add the yolk, 
of an egg. It must not boil. 

The pike and pickerel are often mentioned as the» 
same; there are, however, several varieties of pike 
It looks familiar to see the pike that used to driv» 
all the other fishes away and spoil the sport wheib 
we all went fishing, named in connection with »- 
French river : "The Furens, a clear stream that fallai 
into the Rhone above Peyrieux. The trout caughL 
io it have pink^olored flesh, while that of the pike* 
is as white as ivory." The flesh of the pike is highi 
flavored rather than dedicate. It is firm and ioelinedi 
to fall apart in flakes. Pike roe is nearly as good 
I as shad roe, but must be small to ooak well by fryin|^ 



252 



THB AHBBICAN COOK. 



918. Boiled Pike, Parsley Sauoe. 

!8ca1e, cleADse, remoTe the head ; boil according to 
Bize, from twenty to thirty or forty minutes. Serve 
cuta with a fiah spoon, with parsley sauce poured 
OTCr it, and potatoes on the same plate. 



919. Parsley Sauce. 

Butter sauce (No 916) with a handful of chopped 
parsley boiled in a minute, before the second portion 
of butter is beaten in. 



920. Boiled Mackinaw Trout— Maitre 
d* Hotel Potatoes. 

Half fill the flsh kettle with soup stock and add a 
small onion with four cIotcs stuck in it, half a bay 
leaf, salt, bruised peppercorns and a pint of white 
wine. Place two trout on the drainer and let sim. 
mer nearly or quite half an hqur. Push off the 
upper skin as it is dished up. SerTC with maitre d* 
hotel potatoes in the same plate in lieu of other 
sauce. 



The above baniUon au vin hlane is what good cooks 
ml ways try to use for boiling a good fish in, but is not 
Tery generally available and of course not absolutely 
necessary even for fine cooking. The lake trout has 
n delicate flavor but contains more water in its com- 
position than some others, the pike, for instance, 
and is apt to be insipid when boiled in plain salt and 
water. It should generally have seasoned stock, 
though vinegar may take the place of wine. The 
stock sometimes can be used afterwards for fish 
soups or chowders, or for stewing fish steaks in. 



921. Maicre d' Hotel Potatoes. 

The French term is pronounced mater.dotel and 
is abbreviated in common talk to mate.o-tel. 

Potatoes done this way taste like new potatoes. 
If new ones can be had so much the better 

1 quart of cooked potatoes. 

1 pint ladleAil of hot water or broth. 

1 basting spoonful of vinegar. 

Butter sise of an egg. 

1 basting spoonful of chopped parsley. 

fiame of flour thickening. 

Salt. 

Steam some potatoes and cut in pieces into a 
saucepan, add the other ingredients and shake about 
over the fire till it boils It is a thin, semi-trans- 
parent, buttery looking sauce with considerable 
green in it. 

922 . Boiled Salmon— Hollandaise 

Potatoes. 

Boil the salmon in the same sort of stock as for 
trout (No. 920). Where there is no regular fish 



kettle the difficuHy c«n be obviated by cutting tte 
fiih into two or three and cooking in a oommoia 
saucepan. Time from half an hour to three quarters, 
wi^h slow boiling. Dish up spoonflils with holland* 
aise potatoes on the same plate. 



923. Potatoes, Hollandaise. 

Cut raw potatoes in quarters lenghtwlse as if 
to be fried, then trim to a rough kidney shapes 
boil in salted water, take off before they break, 
drain, and sprinkle with parsley, melted butter, 
salt and lemon juice. Serve with the fish on the 
same plate. 

There used to be a Dutch kidney potato of 
small size but much esteemed, which these cut 
potatoes are intended to imitate. 

G24« Boiled Fresli Mackerel ~ Feimel 

Sauce. 

Mackerel deteriorates with keeping very rapidly* 
Its special excellence can only be known when it is 
cooked when fresh caughi. The fennel accompani- 
ment is an English fancy. The green feathery leaves 
are given with i\b fish. A portion is boiled in ihm 
water and another portion chopped, is mixed with 
butter sauce in the same way as parsley. 

The best way generally to boil mackerel is to roll 
it in a piece of muslin, cook about twenty minutes 
in salted water, roll out on to the dish without 
breaking and serve sauce separately or at the side. 
Tartar sauoe is suitable, or the next variety. 



026. Hot Maitre d'Hotel Sauce. 

Add chopped parsley and lemon Juice to some 
butter sauoe and make it a trifie thinner with hot 
water. 



926. Boiled Shad. 

Sever the back bone with the point of a knife in- 
serted where the outs are to be taken off, before cook* 
ing, then boil it whole. Dish up neat shapely pieces 
or it will seem to be a mixed up lot of fine bones. 
Serve a simple sauce like the preceding, or potatoes. 

027. Boiled Muskallongre, Oai>er 

Sauce. 

A fish like the pickerel, but attains a larger sisSi 
Boil in seasoned stock with vinegar or wine in it» 

as for lake trout, and serve with sauce and plain 

mashed potatoes. 

028. Oaper Sauce* 

Butter sauoe wiih capers and caper vinegar. Mix 
a small portion of the vinegar from the capers with 
the sauoe and strew a teaspoonfUl of capers over 
that on the fish as it is'pUced on the plates. 



THB AHBBICAir COOK. 



853 



That great favorite the hau, too, is well spoken of 
oTer the water, but it looks odd to see it spelled 
basse. This is the sea bass, however. ''The basse 
is not Terj abuadant in the London fish shops; in 
the Chunnel Islands it is often plentiful in its season, 
but never, I believe, very cheap; and it abounds 
along our South coast, in St. Georges's and the 
Bris'ol chanoel, and on different parts of the Irish 
eoast.** 

We have beside the sea bass some three or four 
fresh water varieties. Thej usually run from one 
pound to four or five in weight. 



929. Boiled Bass with Green Peas. 

After ecaling and cleaoing the fish sever the bone,by 
inserting the kuife point at the places where it is to 
be divided when served, ss directed for shad ; that is, 
when it is bhok bass or others weighiog enough to be 
served in portions. B >il in plain salted water about 
fifteen minutes Peel off the upper skin when done. 
Place on the dish, pour over it some good butter sauce 
and green pe«s around in the dish. If to be served 
individually from the carving table remove the head 
before cooking. Pour a spoonful of butter sauce 
over the portion cf fish and a tablespoonful of green 
peas over that. 

If the white fish of the lakes were a scarce variety 
it WbUld doubtless be held in the highest esteem. It 
is one of the best of fishes, and from a culinary 
point of view the most desirable in maay ways. 
Firm, bonelcM, a splendid broiler and fryer; deli 
cate'y white when boiled ; takes on the best color in 
the oven, aod is never rejected at the table. And 
yet people d) not habitually boast of it as of the pet 
fishes. A traveler has written this in its praise: 

**l shall never f »rget my first white fish. I had 
set out from New York for Niagara by a night train, 
and having fallen itato sound slumber at Albany in a 
comfortable sleeping car, I did not awake till we stop- 
ped for breakfast at R Chester, near L«ke Ontario,at 
nine o^clock next moroing. Rising hastily fresh as 
a daisy after my good night*s rest, I fouod myself 
shortly in a handsome refreshment room, seated 
before a cup of steaming coffee, a plate of hot cakes, 
and a broiled fish", whioh had been swimmiug un 
suspect ingly in the lake at four o'clock that morniog. 
The feelings of a true epicure who lights upon a new 
delicicy of the fir«t order are indescribable. White- 
fish is a sort of idea'ised mackerel, with a tioge of 
etherial salmon flavor ; rich without gre<isiness, fnll 
without strangness, and delicate without insipidity 
I ate it with unflaggiug appetite every morniog that 
I remained along the whole great chain of lakes and 
rivers, from Chicago to Saguenay, aud every morn- 
ing I thought it rather better than the last If I 
could only succeed in acclimatising it in our owe 
Sottish lochs— where it sti'l lingered within histor 



ical times, and lived freeiy during late geologiciU 
epochs— I should feel (as prefaces always say) that 
my work was not quite in vain." 



930. Boiled Whiteflsh— Cream Sauce 

Let the fish lie in very cold water, after scaling 
and cleaning, till near dinner time. Boil them in 
seasoned stock with parsley or parsley roots in it^ 
slowly for twenty or thirty minutes, taking them up 
as soon as the flesh begins to leave the back bone. 
Serve outs with a spoonfiil of cream sauce poured 
over and a teaspoonful of very green peas in bntt«r 
scattered on top for ornament. 



9dL Oream Sauce^Plain 

1 quart'of good milk. 

1 large basting spoonfiil of flour. 

Twice its weight of flresh butter. 

Salt. 

Make same way as butter sauce, mixing ha th« 
butter with all the flour in a saucepan on the flre» 
adding the boiling milk and afterwards the remain* 
ing butter and beating it in. 



932. Oream Sauoe — BecliameL 



1 pint of condensed soup stock. 

2 ounces of flour — a spoonfUL 
4 ounces of butter. 

1 pint of rich cream. 

Salt. 

Take a quart of stock from the boiler, that has 
already been seasoned with the stock vegetables aetf 
bay leaf, etc, and boil it down to a pint. Stir the 
flour with half the butter over the fire and when it 
bubbles strain the stock into it and stir up while it 
cooks, then add the cream and butter, beat up, and 
takejt from the fire Just before it l>oils again« 



933. Boiled Sheepshead— Lobster 

Sauoe. 

The sheepshead is a southern sea fish, something 
like the groupers. It may be known by its rows of 
teeth exposed on the very front of the mouth. 

Scrape well, boil it in seasoned stock same as red 
snapper, and serve with lobster sauoe poured over 
in the plates, and duchesse or dauphine potatoes. 



934. Lobster Sauoe. 

8 pints of butter sauce. 

1 small lobster, or half a can. 

1 raw yolk of an egg. 

1 Irmon. 

Pick out the reddest lobster meat, if yon ha^ 
none of the spawn, and pound it smooth. Mix U 
with the butter sauce. Add the yolk fur color, and 



254 



THE AMBRICAZT COOK. 



the juioe of the lemon. Rub this through a gravy 
etrftiuer. Cut the rest of the lobster ia pteces as 
near as possible of one size and mix it in the sauoe. 



936. Boiled Slices of Fish. 

We had, a little waj back, some examples of fish 
steaks or slioes broiled with appropriate sauoes; the 
same steaks or slioes oan be boiled as well, and in 
short order, in a frying pan or tin pan, and it is 
Tery useful to remember it as the fish for dinner 
often comes in late. The slices only need to boil 
slowly for from six to ten minutes, and may then be 
served with any of the boiled fish sauoes, with po- 
tatoes in cream sauce, potatoes in butter sauoe, and 
the like. But there should in most oases be season- 
logs in the water the slioes are boiled in. An insipid, 
washed out slice of fish with an imitation sauce may 
satisfy hunger and serve a present purpose but does 
not teod to draw custom. Expensive sauces may be 
out of reach, but plain seasonings for the boiling 
fish itself are always available. A panful of stock 
with an onion, whole pepper, salt, parsley and lit- 
tle vinegir in it, and perhaps some green thyme and 
a scrap of bay leaf, makes a slice of salmon, trout, 
sturgeon, cod, or hslibut, a different sort of dish 
from the same boiled in fresh water — as they often 
are. 

In cold weather the stock left from the previous 
day*B boiling of fish will be good for boiling steaks. 
This mode of cooking needs to be encouraged for 
breakfast as well as for dinner dishes, to lessen the 
frequency of the more expensive mode of f^iog. 



986. Bffff Sauoe. 

A good and always available sauoe for fish steaks 
or any boiled fish. 

Make butter sauce (No. 916), color it yellow with 
yolk of egg, and mix in about a fourth as much hard 
boiled eggs chopped not too fine. 



987. Baked Bed Grouper^Sauce 
Andalouse. 

Take two of these fishes weighing six or eight 
pounds each. When cleaned and scaled put them 
in a baking pan with salt, a little water, some cut up 
vegetables, and fat fh>m the stock boiler. Bake 
about ten minutes, then peel off the upper skin, 
which is coarse and rough, baste the fish with the 
liquor in the pan and let it bake brown. This fish 
needs a long time to cook — nearly or quite an hour. 
Serve with the sauce at the side. 

933. Sauoe Andalouse. 

Aodalusian sauce is in effect a mixture of espag- 
Bole with tomato sauce seasoned with red peppers or 



chutney. When the fish is done and taken up put 
into the pan it was baked in two pounds of toma- 
toes, a dosen cloves, a spoonful of finely minced 
onion, half a bay leaf and a chopped red pepper. 
Add a pint of brown sauce, if at hand, if not water 
and brown thickening, and let simmer inside the 
range a short time. Strain through a coarse gravj- 
strainer into a saucepan. Set it over the fire, at the- 
side, to continue gently boiling, and shim off the 
grease as it rises. Add salt if necessary. 



939. Baked Gherman Oarp with Green 



Scale and cleanse the fish— always remove the 
head, which otherwise will impart an unpleasant 
taste— and let lie in cold water a while. An hour 
before dinner put them in a baking pan with a little^ 
salt and black pepper and a slice of salt pork for 
seasoning laid on the bottom, and just enough soup 
stock to keep the pan from burning. Bake the fish 
about ten minutes, withdraw it from the oven and 
peel off the skin of the upper side. Dredge a little 
flour evenly all over — stirred through a seive with 
the fingers if you have no dredgei — smooth it with 
the blade of a knife, then bake half an hour and 
baste wi>h butter while it is b%king. The fish will 
be light brown and there will be a small quantity of 
thick and rich sauoe. Having taken up the fish pat 
in some stock, stir up, boil and strain it and mix in 
a pint of green peas, already cooked. Serve the 
sauce and peas on the fish in the plates. 



940* Fried Ghreen Peas. 

Very young new peas may be made of a brilliant 
green color for garnishing the plates of fish, by oare- 
ftilly sauteing them in a Arying pan with the clear 
oil of melted butter. 



German oarp were introduced into American 
waters by the United States Fish Commissioner* 
some six years ago. Some of the fish taken in the 
Potomac, said to be the first German carp ever seen 
at an American hotel table, were served at Willard'a 
Hotel, Washington, March 29, 1882. 



**This flsh^' — says an English author— "is held in 
high estimation on the Continent especially those 
caught in the Rhine and Moselle. In England they 
are seldom found good; when cooked they taste- 
muddy; this is chiefly owing to their being tahen^ 
Arom stagnant ponds.'* 



041. Baked Gherman Carp— Bspagnole. 



Scale and clean the fish and take off the heads* 
Wash and wipe dry, and stuff them with the bread 
dressing of the next receipt. Sew up the belly with 



THE AMBSICAN COOK. 



255 



•twine. It Ukes about fifteen pounds of fish for the 
orders of fifty persons. 

' Slice up into jour baking pan a small carrot, 
onion, turnip, and stalk of celery, and throw in a 
few doves, half a blade of maae and a bay leaf. Put 
in the fish with salt and pepper and some fat from 
the stook boiler and water enough to ooTer the 
bottom. Bake about half an hour basting (he fish 
frequently. When done and placed on the carving 
stand add more water or stock to the contents of the 
pan, let simmer in the range awhile, then thicken 
and strain off the sauce. Serve ihe fish with a 
spoonful of sauce and a spoonful of French fried 
potatoes in the same p-ate. 

942. Bread Dressinff for Fish. 

2 pounds of bread. 

1 heaping teaspoonful of powdered herbs— thyme 
and savory. 

} pint of warm water — a cupful. 

^ pint or les!! of butter, lard, or sausage fat. 

Pepper and salt. 

4 yolks of eggs. 

Cut the bread in dice, all free from dark crust, 
add the herbs to it and pepper liberally. Mix the 
other articles together and pour over the bread. Siir 
up,^ but not mash it. Thir will not be liable to burst 
out when baking. 

043. Potatoes Franoaise. 



Cut raw potatoes in slices and then crosswise in 
lengths with a sabatier scollop knife, which gives 
them a ribbed appearance. Fry them a light color 
in land. They are done when they rise and float. 
Drain in a colander and sprinkle with salt. 



The American carp is known as the "buffalo** 
fish, and '^sucker." It is good enough to form the 
staple commodity of many inland fish markets along 
the great rivers of the West where it abounds. 



and brush over the top with beaten egg, and on that 
sift some cracker meal, or finely crushed and sifted 
dry bread crumbs. * Set the fish in to bake again 
and baste while it is baking with butter melted, or 
good drippings. When richly browned take it up. 
Serve with fine herbs sauce, or tomato sauce and 
potato croquettes. To be a la ehevaUere the above 
should have grated cheese in the breading, to be 
properly au gratin there should be a coating of fine 
herbs sauce under the crumbs. There is no need to 
use either term. 

046. Potato Oroquettes 

2 pounds of steamed potatoes* 

2 ounces of bu'ter. 

2 yolks, or one egg. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Mash aU together. Make up in long rolls about 
the leng h of a thumb, roll them in beaten egg-and- 
water, and then in cracker meal and fry in hot lard 



947. Fillets of Whit^flsh — Dauphlne 

Potatoes. 



944. Oarp Baked Plain. 

Bake the fish in a pan with salt, pepper, slices of 
pickled pork or bacon and water enough to keep 
the pan from burning and to baste with. Bake 
according to size, from half an hour to an hour. 
Make thickened gravy in the pan and serve the 
pieces of pork witfap the fish, and plain steamed 
potatoes. 

945. Baked Salmon Trout—Au Gratln 

or Ohevaliere. 



Split the fish down the back and take out the 
back bone. Lay it, skin side down, in a baking pan 
in which there is salt, and soup stock or water 
-enongh to wet the bottom. Bake the fish a few 
oiiaates, or until it gets fkirly hot, then take out 



Choose la^ge whitefish, scale, split, and take oat 
the back bone. Make some fresh lard hot in a 
baking pan. Salt and pepper the sides of fish, dip 
them in beaten egg (without watei), then in flour, 
then in egg again. Lay them in the hot lard and 
set the pan in the oven Care is required not to lei 
I he lard get very hot, but to cook the fish of a deli- 
cate deep yellow color. In about twenty minutes 
take up and drain the fillets from grease. Serve with 
parsley sauce and potatoes. 

948. Potato es a I'Dauphine. 

They are potato croquettes of a flattened shape. 
Take 4 or 5 potatoes out of the steamer and 
mash them -with the yolk of one egg, salt and a 
grating of nutmeg. Nlake them out in flattened 
pats, very much like figs as they are pressed in 
boxes, dip in egg and cracker meal and fry to a 
fine yellow color in hot lard. 

949. Baked Spanish Maokerel^Sauoe 

Piquante. 

Take fifteen or twenty mackerel ; scrape the fine 
scales off, pull out the gills and draw them without 
cutting open. Wash thoroughly and dry inside and 
out. Stuff the mackerel with the fish forcemeat of 
the next receipt. Lay them in a pan with the bot- 
tom previously well spread with ftresh butter, add 
salt and a ladleful of stock and the juice of one or 
two lemons, and bako them in a brisk oven about 
twenty or thirty minutes, basting with the liquor 
from a corner of the pan, which should be dry at 
last and the fish richly glazed and brown. Divide 
neatly with a sharp knife point and serve portions 
with the sauce at the side and small potato croquettes 
on the same plate. 



2&G 



THE AMBSICAN COOK. 



950. Fish Foroemeat. 

1 pound of whiteilBhy raw. 
8 ouDoes of bread panada. 
8 ounoes of mtDoed suet. 

2 egg8~(4 jolks better). 

2 tablespoonftils of chopped parsley. 

Pepper, salt, little nutmeg and lemon juice. 

Steep some bread in oold water and wring it dry 
bj twisting in a olean kitchen napkin. Take the 
required quantity with all the other ingredients, and 
mash them to a paste, taking care that the fish be 
free fh>m bones. Use this to stuff small fish and to 
make little balls (quenelles), to be rolled in flour and 
fried or poached, for garnishing and far ragouts. 

951. Small Potato Oroquettes. 

Make the potato preparation, No. 946, and make 
it up in little balls not larger than walnuts with 
plenty of flour on the hands, insuring the croquettes 
a good eoating. Put them in a wire basket and im- 
merse them in hot lard. Take out as soon as they 
hsTe a yellow oolor lest they burst in the fat. Serre 
them with fish, on the same plate, or as a border to 
a large dislr. 

Potato croquettes are made difficult to fry by too 
much milk or water being mixed in when the pota- 
toes are mashed. They then turn soft in the hot 
lard, and become shapeless and greasy. The pota- 
toes for croquettes should be mashed separately and 
kept dry. 

962. Speckled Trout with Fine Herbs. 

20 to 25 pounds of trout. 

Forcemeat for stuffing. 

8 ounces of butter. 

4 slices of pork. 

1 bastingspoonfttl of minced onion, 

1 can of button mushrooms. 

1 spoonful of minced parsley. 

1 pint of stoerry. 

Pepper and salt. 

Scrape the fish, pull' out the gills, and draw them 
without cutting open. Wash and wipe dry inside. 
Fill with the stuffing (No. 950). Spread the butter 
on the p^n, put in the fish close together, and the 
mushroom liquor and pork slices and shake the re- 
maining ingredients evenly upon them. Add a ladle- 
ful of stock. Bake about half an hour, basting from 
the corner of the pan. Dish up out of the pan 
without other sauce, but with Parisian potatoes in 
the same plate. 

063. Potatoes Boulettes, or Parisienne 

or Mitrailleuse, j 

Scoop out balls flrom raw potatoes with a potato spoon 
about like large cherries in sise, and enough of them 
to fill a quart. Stew (not fry) them in butter, or in 



mixed butter and lard till they are done, then drain 
and set them in a pan in the oven a few minutes to get 
a rich color. Sprinkle with parsley and salt. Good 
to serve with every kind of meat, but especially for 
small dishes of fish. They are fine and ornamental 
likewise as fried potatoes. 



064. Baked Blueflsh— Bordelaiae. 

After cleaning and trimming off the fins wash the 
fish and wipe it dry. Fill the inside with the veal 
forcemeat of the next receipt, and sew up with twine. 
Cut up into the baking pan a piece of carrot and 
turnip, and put in a small onion stuck with cloves, 
a bunch of parsley, a ladleful or two of stock and 
fat from the top of the stock boiler, a ladleftil of 
claret or white wine, some pepper and salt. Put in 
the fish, bake in a hot oven. While it is baking fry 
a slice of ham in butter, add a bastingspoonful of 
flour and let it become brown in the pan for thicken* 
ing When the fish is taken up pour into the pan 
another ladlefol of stock and another of wine, thicken 
with the brown flour, and when it has boiled up in 
the pan strain the sauce into a sauce pan, simmer at 
the side of the range and take off the grease as it 
rises. Add the juice of a lemon and some cayenne. 



066. Wine Sauce for Fish. 

The< above described method of baking a fish in 
wine stock and making a thickened wine sauce for 
it in the same pan, whether the fish be stuffed or 
not, is a favorite one both with the cooks and with 
those they cook for, and is resorted to with nearly 
every kind of fish that comes to the hotel table, the 
designation, a very proper one, usually being <'with 
wine sauce," the cooking wine available usually 
being sherry. Another most popular way is that 
directed for speckled trout with fine herbs (No. 952), 
which is also applicable to every kind of fish and is 
in general practice, it being merely optional whether 
the fish, whatever the kind may be, shall be stuffed or 
not. The skill of the cook, and natural taste ia- 
shown in the appearance of both the fish and the 
sauces, in making the latter of good color, bright, 
and not pasty; things at once appreciated in prac-- 
tice, if not altogether to be made plain in words. 



066. Veal Stuffing for Fish. 

1 pound of minced cooked veal. 

8 ounoes of fat salt pork, or part suet. 
8 ounces of bread panada. 

2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful of mixed salt and pepper. 

Same of powdered thyme and savoiy. 

A pinch of ground mace. 

Juice of 1 lemon. 

To prepare the bread, soak the pieces in col<ft 



THE AMBRICAN COOK. 



257 



water and squerii dry in a doth. Pound all the 
iogredie ts together. This veal foroemeat ean be 
used iQ many other ways besides for stuffing fish. 

957. Potatoes a la Duchesse. 



• Take 4 or 5 potatoes out of the dinner steamer 
and mash them with a seasoning of salt, the yolk 
of an egg and grating of nutmeg or pinch of 
ground mace. When perfectly smooth roll it on 
the flour board, cut off balls larger than walnuts, 
flatten and pinch them up to a thick leaf shape, 
mark the tops with back of the knife, set in a but> 
tered pan, wash over with egg and bake to a fine 
color. Serve with fish or with entrees, as an 
ornamental garnish. 

958. Baked Oodflab Stuffed with 

Oysters 

Choose small cod or bake or haddock for baking 
whole. Fill them with the oyster slufflog, No. 855f 
WW up and bake plain, that is to say, with only 
some fai from the top of the stock boiler in the pan, 
and salt. Serve with a portion of the dressing and 
brown oyster sauce made as directed at No. 854. 
This makes (he cheap and abundant codfish equal to 
the choicer kinds. 



969. Potato Oake to go with Fish. 

1 pound of •steamed potatoes — a quart dipperful 
6 ounces of butter— a cupful. 

2 ounces of flour — a bastingspoonful. 
1 cupful of milk. 

3 eggs. 8alL 

Mash the potatoes through a seive. Mix the butter 
in while still warm, then the flour, the milk and the 
«gg8 beaten very light. Pour the mixture into a 
greased baking pan like Yorkshire .pudding, bake 
the same way, of a nice light brown, and serve out 
in squares or spoonfuls with plates of fish. 

960. Fillets of Fish with Quenelle 

Dressinff. 

We will not specify any particular kind of fish, 
for this is a tasteful and handsome way f jr any 
variety. Neither is it necessary to write it at length 
for the bill of fare. The simple designation baked 
whitefish, or trout, or muskallunge or whatever it 
it may be is sufficient 

Split the fish in two down the back, take out (he 
bone, wipe the two eides (fillets) dry, and dredge 
them wi h pepper and salt. Then, having tbem on 
n board before you with the skin side down, spread 
(he upper side over with an even coa'ing of the fish 
foroemeat of the following receipt. It is a soft yel- 
low paste and can be smoothed over with a palette 
knift. 

Then lay the fillets in a bakmg pan, with a little 
■alt dredged under, put in a spoonAil of drippings 



and (he same of butter, and about as much water to 
keep the corners of the pan from burning. Bake 
about half an hour, or longer if the sides are Itrg^ 
and thick, and baste twice wiih the contents of ihe 
pin. The surface should be of a rich yellow-browo 
color, and may Lced a cover of greased paper should 
the oven be too hot. 

Serve neat cuts on the fish plates with potatoes^ 
and a very little gravy of some sort poured unier. 

A whole fish for a party table can be prepared iu 
the same way, and with wine sauce in the dish. 



961. Fish Forcemeat. 

The qnaotity of this receipt is about enough for 
one large whitefish laid open.. It should be doubled 
for fish for fifty. 

12 ounces of whitefish, raw. 

8 ounces of bread panada. 

4 ounces of butter. 

3 or 4 yolks of eggs, raw. 

1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

Juice of half a lemon. 

Salt, pepper, and a slight grating of nutmeg. 

Any other kind offish will do if whitefish is n(yt 
at hand. See that it is free from bones and skin, cut 
it up and pound it in a bright saucepan; throw in 
all the other ingredients — (he butter not melted — 
and pound them together till smooth. 

This delicate paste is useful in a number of ways^ 
and should be made often enough for the ingredi- 
ents to be easi y remembered. 



962. Bread Panada. 

Shave (he crust from some s(sle rolls or slices of 
bread and soak them in cold water, then twist up in 
a coarse cloth to squeeze dry. Hot water to steep 
in will not make good panada. 

963. A Southern Way. 

In the restauran(8 and hotels of the South a oon- 
siderable use is made of coloring pepper for baking 
fish. The receipt for making it will be found in the 
miscellanea at the end of this work. It ean be pur- 
chased in bottles the same as curry powder or file 
gumbo. Though mild in flavor it gives the fish 
the appearance of being covered with a coating of 
cayenne. Split the fish down the back and take 
out the bone. Wash and wipe dry, and lay it in a 
baking pan, skin ride downwards and with butter 
in the pan under it. Dredge over salt end a plenti* 
ful coating of coloring pepper. Pour a ladleful of 
broth in the pan and bake the fish according to kind 
and thickness, from fifteen to thirty minutes. 



964. A Plain Bake. 

The method above indicated without the pepper^ 
and with only butter and ^lemon Juice on (he fish 
and salted broth in the pan, is one of the beat and 



258 



THE AMEBICAN COOK. 



. cimplest that anjone oan practice for any good fish 
that comes along on short order, and a waj that is 
designated by a high sounding French term in some 
places. B Mte onoe or twice while the fish is baking, 
with soft batter from jour butter can, and that will 
giTC brown color enough. 

Id the columns that have preceded this the reader 
now has all the good, straight ways of cooking fish 
for breakfast, dinner and sapper, nearly all the nec- 
essary sauces for both fish and meats, and nearly all 
the ways of cooking potatoes to go with ihem. 

It is to be understood, of course, that the sauces, 
•etc., do not speciaUy belong to the several fishes, but 
are to be changed over to other kinds' according to 
the general intimation of fitness convey ed. 

When a new kind of fish comes along consider 
:first whether you can broil it, either in thin sides or 
«lioes ; the best way for many reasons, but the broil- 
ing arrangements are seldom good enough to accom- 
modate hotel numbers. Then consider the simple 
rolling in flour and frying in real hot lard, and after 
that breading and frying. For dinner give first 
preference to boiling and think over what good-look- 
ing sauce you will make to go with it. It is when 
fish is very plendful and people seem to tire of it 
that the ways like stuffing with oysters and baking 
«ome in, and a little novel <y of method is always to 
t)e kept in reserve for uncommon occasions. 

There are other dishes of fish to be mentioned at 
« future time, of the class of made dishes, which 
we are all gUd to adopt because of the necessity of 
flometimes making a fish entree to fill out the bill of 
fare, especially on Fridays and in Lent ; and because 
there are times when the fish on hand is not enough 
for anything else but a side dish. 



965. Turbot. 

This is a summer fish, in season fh»m early spring 
to late autumn. It runs from four or five to twenty 
pounds in weight, the small ones are considered the 
best. 

Cook a turbot either by cutting the meat, after re- 
moving the bone, in p^ec^s of e^en size and egging, 
breading and frying, or boil it whole in a broad 
kettle and serve a sauce asusual, or bake it in any 
of the ways heretofoce directed for other kinds. 

A turbot purporting to be broiled whole is only 
broiled on the white side, partially, then turned over 
into a baking pan and finished by baking, with a 
buttered paper on top to preserve the appearances 
It must be split down the back to keep the white 
aide from breaking while cooking. 

Tafl's Point Shirley bills of fare proclaim turbol 
king of the sea. Some folks call him only king of 
flat fish— a sort of chief plaice or boss flounder 
or jolly old sole. He is an historical fish, however, 
the great fish story originator, fkmous at the ban- 



quets of the Greex and Bomans, recipient of the beet 
attentions of the most ingenious maitres d^hotel and 
the chiefest of cooks, who delighted in him for his 
accommodating shape for a dish, and broad expanse 
of smooth white surface to draw sunfloi^ers in 
lobs' er coral on. 

It was turbot that caused the death of YateU 
mail re d' hotel and chef-de-cuisine to the great gen- 
eral, the Prince deConde. . The king was coming and 
they were preparing a regular Southern Hotel din- 
ner for him. Vatel sent both to Blackford's and to 
Booth's for a fine turbot to come at the appointed 
time by Wells, Fargo & Co.*s Express, without ask- 
ing the price or caring much what It cost. For Va- 
tel had a special way of fixing up a turbot and 
wanted the king to see it. His way was to cut the 
fish down the back and open it enough to get out ali 
the bones, then fill the inside with fish forcemeat 
(No. 961) and bake it with the white side uppermost, 
with wine, mushrooms and oyster liquor and various 
other things in the pan, basting till the fluids were 
nearly dried up and set in glaze all over the fish. 
When he dished it up he had somfc rich cream sauce 
(No. 982) which he colored light green by mixing in 
some ravigote butter (No. ) and that he poured over 
the fish. Then he took smelts enough to encircle it, 
took out their bones and stuffed them, then formed 
in rings by sticking their tails in their mouths, 
loured and fried ihem and laid them around. Then 
he took some fillets of soles, nice and white, and 
with a fine larding needle worked patterns in them 
with shreds of black truffle and red meat of lobster, 
simmered them in butter and then laid them around, 
and wherever they would do the most good, and 
then sent it in hot. But on this great occasion his 
great specialty could not be produced, he telegraphed 
and telephoned and sent couriers till he was tired. 
The king arrived and no fish had come, and Yatel 
went out and committed suicide. Not in any cold, 
clammy, disgusting way, but respectably as a gentle- 
manly chief cook should, by running his sword 
(hrough himself. 

A high literary lady of France saw the true merits 
of the case, and when most people were laughing at 
Vatel for a fool she wrote pathetically about the af- 
fair and made it look more like a tragedy than a 
joke. The rest of the French cooks were not un- 
grateful but gallantly named a soup after her, and 
consequently we have consomme Seviffne to this day* 
If any one thinks that a comical way of commemor- 
ating a person we ask them to consider how much 
longer the name of the soup will endure than any 
headstone, and how few, comparatively, would ever 
read the name of Madame de Sevigne if it were not 
in the menu. 

Equally scarce, costly and impossible to obtain 
wa9 this fish when a certain Cardinal Fesch unex- 
pectedly received two at once as a present fh>m a 
devoted fHend. Not a hotel or restaurant in the city 



THB AKEBICAN COOK. 



259 



bad a (urbot or could get odo for love or moapy. 
The c^rdioars guests were iovi ed. Some of them 
bad not beea able to obtain even a broiled turbot 
steak at their re taurant for months. They amused 
themseWes while aaicipatiog the tie^t in prepara- 
tion with sli the royal turbot sories they oould think 
Df, and when at la«t the great fish was brought in at 
the door they were thoroughly prepared for its en- 
joyment. But, alas, it n ver reached the table; the 
waiters slipped and the precious dish was scattered 
upon the floor. 

Such a joker was this maitre d'hotel. He wanted 
to see how disappointed they would look, and to 
show how rich in turbot 1 is employer was when no- 
body else had a speck. He ordered the second tur- 
bot to be immediately brought in and set on the 
table, shewing that in that house they could afford 
to throw away what ethers were dying to obtain, and 
still have plenty more left to make a feast. 



066. Plaice and Flounders. 

Nearly tha Eame, but the plaice the larger. Cut 
in pieces and fry, or fry whole, or bake with bread 
orumbs or cracker meal on top, or dipped in flour 
and egg. 

967. Soles. 

Among the best flit fish. The favorite way is to 
cook the fillets, rolled up, fastened wiih small skew- 
ers, dipped in egg and cracker crumbs. Also, fry 
them whole, afier.skinning Ihe skin can be pulled 
off afier starling with a knife point. 



968. Sturgeon. 

May be seen in the market of every size, from 
one or two pounds weigL. to two or three hundred. 
The skin studded with ridges of horny substance is 
tough and mubt be removed by means of a knife. 
Cook in steaks same as halibut. T^ke midd'e cuts, 
remove the bone, fill the cavity with stufliog, and 
braise or bake same as meit, allowing plenty of 
time. Also stew and fricassee the same as veal. 
Sturgeon is salted and smoked in large quantities. 
The roe is converted into cavair. In England the 
fish is a rarity and every one caught in the rivers 
belongs to the crown. Sturgeon's head being very 
gelatinous is said to be a good substitute for turtle. 



It is eit remedy probable that the names bestowed 
upon French dishes all had some tradition or histor- 
ical association attached in the first instances. Here 
is a hint from a magazine article of the meaning of 
trout a la Genevese : 

*'At the sime time Charlemagne encouraged the 
production of fruit and flowers, as adding to the 
«njnymeDt of the people, and was pleased when any 
special delicacy was presented to him The Genevese 



trout are honorably mentioned in the capitularies, 
and it will be remembered that one of these trout, 
supplied to Gambaceres by the municipality of Ge- 
neva was charged 300 francs in their accounts." 

969. Trout a la Genevese. 

12 to 16 pounds of trout. 

1 pint of champagne. 

1 pint of sherry. 

1 otiion ftuek with cloves. 

4 ounces of butter. 

A bunch of parsley and thyme. 

A ladleful of broth. 

Salt, pepper, brown roux, toast and lemons. 

Cleanse the trout, take off the heads, wipe dry, 
score through the skin on both sides where the in- 
dividual portions are to be taken off, and also sever 
the bone by striking the point of a knife through. 
Then dredge a little salt and pepper in a baking 
pan, put in the butter, and lay the fish in just touch, 
ing. Add half the champagne and sherry, and if 
there is much vacant space in the pan the ladleful 
of broth likewise, and the onion and herbs. Set in 
a hot oven and baste the fish while it is baking, al-^ 
most onctiintly. The gelatinous grnvy from the 
fish makes a glaze with* the wine, which is to be 
coited over it; by this means till there is no more 
liquid left in the pan. Remove the fish carefully 
into another pan when done, pour the remaining 
half of the wine into the fish pan, boil up, thicken 
with browned flour, and strain the sauce. Serve 
the portions of fish with a slice of lemon on top and 
the sauce poured under. 

A fish cooked in this manner served whole should 
be raised upon a shape of fried bread cut to fit the 
bottom of ihe dish. 



970. Eels. 

Cook either by frying, rolled in floor or breaded, 
or by stewing, and eiiher cut in sections or split and 
boned and then cut in lengths. They can also be 
broiled' — boned and laid out flat for the purpose — 
and baked in a pan with wiue, the pieces laid Mde 
byside, as so many small fish would be. Vast quan- 
tities of eels are sold in the markets, but only a small 
proportion go to American hotels. The large sorts are 
salted and smoked and find sale in large quantities 
in that form. Eel-pouts, bull-pouts and small cat- 
fish, ready skinned and cleaned likewise, are handled 
by the market men near the lakes in car load lots» 
which shows that the prejudice existing against 
these kinds is not universal. Clear meat of this de- 
scription is, however, generally very cheap — often 
by the barrel only three cents per pound, more gen- 
erally about five cents, and retails at seven or eight 
cents. Whatever good cooking can do to make such 
cheap, solid, and intrinsically valuable food accept, 
able to a larger number than at present unquestion- 



260 



THB AMESaOAX COOK. 



ably ought to be done. Cooks, at least, ought to 
liave no pnjudioes that should make them slight 
one artiole to i legate another. Their art is essen- 
liallj one of equaliSAtion. 



Such artie'es as eel aod fi^h pies, orabs soft and 
hard, moek orabs, matelottes or fish stews, turtle and 
terrapin, will be found in plaoe In our forthooming 
Hotel Book or Soups and £ntseis. 



071. Salt Mackerel. 

/ As much care, if not skill is needed lo have salt 
mackerel as good as c in be a i for an j thing that is 
done in the kitchen. The particular point is to put 
it on in cold water and remove it from the fire the 
moment it begios to boil. It is then soft and tender, 
but becomes dry if allowed to boil hard. 

To prepare the mackerel for cooking, wash off the 
salt and steep them tweni j-four hours in plenty of 
water, in a yessel set in a cold place. Lay them in 
with the skin side up, that the salt which is heaTier 
than water may escape to the bottom ; and change 
the water once or t wice. 

Scrape out the black skin of the inside of the 
mackerel, cut off the head", divide — if for boiling — 
by cuttiDg in three crosswise, but if for broiling 
split them lengthwise. Hang broiling mackerel up 
lo dry about twenty-four hours before they are to be 
cooked When dished up pour a spoonftil of clear 
melted butter over the pi«ce of fish in the dish. 



It should be remembered by buyers of hotel stores 
that there is t he utmost diffierence in quality between 
the different grades of mackerel, from fat mess to 
the thin and rusiy number foun*, which, if of any 
use at all, certainly are not fit to broil. 



072. Salt Whiteflsh. 

The remarks relating to salt mackerel apply to 
these as well. Watchfulness is needed to keep the 
vessel they are soiked la sweei and in a cold place, 
or the fidh will have sonstanily a half spoiled taste 
and be soft. 

When nicely freshened cook them only a few 
minutes, and serve wiih a cream or butter sauce, 
and sometimes with mustard sauce, which answers 
fur any sort of salt fish. 



073. Mustard Sauoe. 



Make butter sauce (No. 917), half the usual quan- 
tity may do, and add a tablespoon ftil of made mus- 
tard and a pinch of cayenne. 



074. Salt or Piokled Salmon. 



ing the water occasionally, then cut in pieces and 
boil only a few minutes, and serve with a sauoe that 
has no salt. 

It m%kes a good dinner dish also, cut in small 
pieces with potatoes cut to the same sise, boiled 
together, then the water poured away and cream 
sauce poured to them instead. 



076. Oanned Salmon. 

Thi:i shou'd not be turned out of the cans. The- 
greatest drawback to the use of canned salmon as a 
substitute fv^r fresh fish is iis liability to break into- 
crumbs. Open the cans and set them on the back of 
tberangea short time before dinner, and dish out of 
the cans on the plates All the sauces, etc., suitable 
for boiled fish can be used with this. The large cans 
are to be preferred to small for the reason above^ 
given. Cannrd salmon cold is a good and conve-- 
nient dish for supper and lunch. 



075. Kippered Salmon. 



Is smoked silmon. It is sliced, for breakfast and 
supper, and served cold without cooking ; is toasted 
and broiled and spread with butter, and also stewed 
with potatoes. 

076. Finnan Haddies. 

Smoked haddock. They are commonly, for res- 
taurant orders, plainly broiled over a slow fire or 
toasted, peppered, and brushed over with butter. 
May be improved by steeping in warm water before- 
broiling, and by steeping in olive oil fjr several 
hours and then frying in the same. 



077- Smoked Herring. 

Picked apart in shreds and eaten without cook, 
ing, for lunch. Toast fine ones before the fire or on 
the broiler raised high above the coals. Serve on a 
hot dish. When large enough split them open and 
broil them flat on the wire broiler Pepper while 
cooking and spread butter over when done. 



078. Yarmouth Bloaters. 



»v 



Ofienest now ticketed in the shops <*bloaters, 
only. They are the largest and fattest herrings^ 
selected like "mesa*' mackerel from the common, and 
mild cured. Can be broiled and served most ele-^ 
gantly rolled in buttered paper. 



070. Smoked Whiteflsh. 



Freshen it oy steeping !n wa'er two days, chang- 1 Cjok the same as herring or haddock. 



THB AXBBIOAN COOK. 



26t 



980. OodftBh Balls. 

1} pounds of raw pared po(a.oe8. 

1 poQod of boneless codfish. 

2 basting spoonfuls of melted butter. 
8 or 4 eggs. 

1 small ieaspoonful of pepper. 

8oak the codfish over night, boil it half an hour, 
pick over and mash it small. Cook the potatoes 
apeeially for the purpose. Mash all together, ball 
np with floured hands and fry brown. 



981. Ck>dfi8h in Oream. 

Steep and boil a pound of codfish, pick it apart 
when cool and mash is but not very fine. Pour to 
It about the same quantity of cream sauce made 
without salt, or add milk and butter to the fish and 
thicken it slightly when it boils. 



982. Stewed Codfish. 

Pick the fish apart in fl ikes after boiling, and cover 
with oream sauce, or boil the flakes in milk, add 
butter and a few cooked potatoes cut up and some 
butter, and thicken slightly with flour-and-wat^r 
thickening when it bo' Is up again. These are good 
Friday dishes, and good to alternate with salt mack- 
erel and whitefish. 

983 Fried Smelts- 
Draw the fish through the gills without opening 
them and wipe them clean. Dip in beaten egg and 
cracker meal, with care not to rub off the breading 
as it will not adhere a second time and the grease 
gets under the coating. Fry a few at a time in a 
pan of hot lard. They should be done and of a 
handsome light brown color in four minutes. May 
also be plainly rolled in flour and fried like trout. 
See No. 869. 



084. Sea Bass Baked. 

Scale and clean the fish, take the head off unless 
it is to be served whole. Make a stuffing for it of 
4 pressed cupfuls of fine bread crumbs, 

1 cupful of butter, 

Rind of ^ a lemon finely minced, 
Parsley, green thyme and marjoram. 
Pepper and salt, 

2 eggs and a cup of warm water. 

Stuff the fish and sew it up. Mark it in slices as 
it is to be carved on both sides by cutting down to 
the bone and put a very thin slice of salt pork in 
each incision. Bake in a long pan with suet or 
drippings, stock and salt and pepper in it about 40 
minutes or according to sise. 

Put a little strained tomatoes and brewn gravy 



into the fish pan and water if necessary, let boil up, 
skim, and strain for sauce. 



Sardines. 



(Maffazine,) 



**In regard to our food, as in other matters, there 
is no gainsaying the fact that things are not what 
they Be<»m. The dainty little fishes that come U> 
our tables elaborately packed in tiny tin oases, and 
smothered with olive oil, are supposed to have been 
captured where the waters of the Mediterranean lash 
Sardinian shores. In reality they are fiequently 
the product of what are known as the English and 
American Sardine fisheries. Sardines are simply 
the young of the pilchard (clupea pilchardus). They 
get their name from having been formerly caught 
in great numbers off the island of Sardinia. The 
Sardine is, in fact, a member of the herring family, 
and it is only its extreme youth and the manner of 
packing it that separate it from its re'atives. 



The following very "fishy'* bill of fare was ascd 
at the annual banquet of the Ichtbyopagous Club of 
New York city, held at the Palisade Mountaia 
House, on the Hudson, June 6: 

Little Neck Clams 
Bisque of Razor Clams 

Consomme Lady Morgan 
Whitebait, Greenwich Style 
Souffle of fresh water Clams en coquille 

Moonfish HoUandaise 
Cucumbers Potatoes Duchesse 
Turban of Skate Toulouse 
Horseshoe crabs, farcis 
Small fillets of porpoise, saute Bordelaise 
Croquette of dogfish, fine herbes 
Lamprey eels fried in crumbs 
Tenderloin of beef financiere 
Asparagus Green Peas 

Stuffed Tomatoes 
Salmon, sauce Tartare 
Alligator garfish, Ravigote sauce 

Brook trout in jell7 

Pate of eels 

Shrimp salad Lobster salad 

Punch du Chailltt 

Albany beet, larded au jus 

Lettuce Grouper a la Foord 

Assorted cakes Neapolitan ice creaia 

Cheese Coffee 

Fruits 



r ^ 



A Qood Hotel ReM^erator. 



A refrigerator of a convenient medium size 
that is perfectly satisfactory in filling all the re- 
quirements of an ice chest for all purposes* and 
an object of pride to both the proprietor and his 
New Enj^land steward, is in use at the American 
House, Denver, Colo. The diagram below 
shows the form and arrangement. It gives a 
front view as the interior appears When the 
doors are open. The height inside is six feet; 
depth, front to back, five and a half; the middle 
compartment for the ice is three feet wide; the 
cold rooms on each side three and a half. The 
drip from the ice is led away by a zinc drainer, 
and the space below is both dry and cold. The 
outside walls are, of course, double, and filled 
in with eight inches of dry sawdust. This re- 
frigerator is built close by the outer door on one 
side of a cellar basement, the store room being 
directly opposite. It is elevated a step or two 
from the floor. 





E" 




IE 






B 


A 


B 






i>Z 


C 


Si> 





A Place for the blocks of Ice, opening in front. 

BB Cold rooms fitted with shelves. Front doors. 

C Space under ice floor and zinc drainer where milk 
and butter may be kept. Front door. 

DD Small doors open into the ice box letting the cold 
air in. 

£B Small doors open into a Tentilating pipe letting the 
warm air and vapor out 

— Shelvss. 



HOW TO CUT MEATS 



AND 



-ARORSTh 



BOIL + MD+BROIL. 



The entLTB trade of the Hotel Meat-Gutterj RaaGtBr and 

Hroller, including *' Short Drders/' 
DnxeletSj etc. 



Being a Part of the "Oven and Range" Series* 



BY 

JESSUP ¥HITEHEaD. 



! CHICAGO 
1901. 



Bntbred aocordinfl^ to Act of Congress, 
Id the office of the Librarian of CongreM, at Washington, D« G« 



Right of TransUtioo reaenred. 



THE AUBBICAN COOK. 



NOTES TO THE THIRD EDITION. 



"Die immenBc outlay requfred to provide the 
choicest cuts of the best beef for hotel 
three times a day undennlnes many a grand 
ture's buamesB and brings it to ruin. It 
most seriouB strain upon any hotel's revenues, and 
if any method to relieve the strain could be 
pointed out it would of course be adopted with 
avidity and the author of these instructions would 
be only loo liappy to furnish the relief. There 
however, no remedy but to chaise high prices for 
the luxury of choice cuts. These 
written with the belief that "they that are whole 
need not a physician, but they that 
Any person, even a child, can go to the butcher's, 
buy the best he has In the shop, pay Ute hlgiiest 
price, and then sell it at an advance if tliere be a 
bm-er ready. The writer was to diffident to think 
th;tt any advice of hi^was needed in such trans- 
-actions. But In places where these choice cute 
-cannot be purciiased because there are no boarders 
willing to pay enough for them the best methods 
of making use of the cheaper cuts, it was thought, 
might be shown with good effects, and [his book 
is repated as being eminently practical 

It should be observed that our cut of a loin of 
beef shows a long loin, a very long loin, having a 
portion of the solid lean meat of the round at- 
tached. If tt had stlli more of the round it would 
be still more profitable in furnishing a larger pro- 
portion of steaks to the gross weight. One of the 
many stewards of the best high-priced hotels who 
have been pleased to consult these pages has 
objected that no such numt>er of steaks can be 
■cut from a loin and that the statements were 
liable to mislead proprietors and make them dis- 
satisfied with the steward. In proof he mentioned 
that he had purchased a loin of beef that weighed 
70 pounds and only got 40 steaks out of IL His 
was a 4 dollars a day house and that was the sort 
of steaks tliey could serve— alUiough the expense 
evidently olnched even there. But if his short 



loin, which no doubt was choice and fat, co«t 18 
cents per pound the steaks cost 30 cents each and 
it is simply impossible for lower priced houses to 
serve such cuts as he had In mind. Another 
steward, not objecting but simply inquiring, 
pointed to a light and small short loin and said — 
"I can only cut one length off that and can only 
cut it Into such a number of steaks — can you get 
any more? " and the answer was "No more porter- 
house cuts, because they are not there ; but a few 
more out of the flank that are good but are not 
"Brst-class" such as all first-class stewards and 
tirst-class cookr crave." AH that is eiplicitly 
stated in the book, and there can be no miscon- 
ception by anyone who will read. 

Ciianges take place rapidly In these times and 
the past few years have brought about a new 
system of distributing dressed beef in refrigerator 
care to all parts of the country, so that the choice 
cuts of shipped meat may be brought fn some 
pliices cheaper than the native product, and thia 
new system furnishes the relief sought, at some 
seasons of the year making it possible for housea 
of the smaller pretensions to serve as good beef 
as any. Tenderloins, rolls, butts, rack-wasts, and 
short loins of the best quality can often be pur- 
chased resonably In every large railroad town 
where before the butchere had been obliged to 
refuse to cut them out for hotel buyers. 

In the matter of cutting up hams, too, the re> 
marks about city-cut meat apply. The directions 
and illustrations are especially applicable to coun- 
try hams and small packers', scarcely two of 
which are alike, and unpracticed hands make ter- 
rible work of haggling them to pieces; for that 
>n the saw is recommended. But the packers 
make such neat work that the bone In the 
best hams is scarcely as large as the palm of thv 
hand and may be easily removed with the point 
knife without using a saw, and the ham b« 
cut in two with one stroke from end to snd. 



t city-packed hunt. 



HOTEL CARVING. 



Certain men who practise the same set of duties 
every day will acquire extraordinary dexterity in 
their line, and they are the men to watch if one 
Mould learn all the sharp cuts in car%'ing. George 

McG J a Southern hotel keeper was one of 

these fine carvers, but rather off-hand and waste- 
ful with it, for he was full of other business and 
would not dwell upon trifles ; he was for rapidly 
and did not stop to clean all the meat from the 
carcasses; left them to be stripped afterwards for 
salad or hash. There was another man employed 
in his house, a professional carver, Jake Carter by 
name, and one day he said : 

"Mr. McG — how many orders do you think I 
can get off this turkey ?" 

"Oh — I don^t know — how much does it weigh?" 

"Here it is — ^you can judge for yourself." 

"Well — that turkey weighed X2 pounds before 
it was cooked — I suppose I could carve 35 or 40 
orders from it if I was trying, and I don't think 
there are many carvers around here can beat me." 

"Mr. McG — I think I can just about double 
that number for a five dollar bet." 

"FU bet you a ten dollar gold piece against 
seven days wages you can't beat it over ten dishes'* 
— returned McG — and not thinking any more 
about the matter he turned on his heel and went 
off to the front of the house. But Jake Carter 
called witnesses to watch and off that one turkey 
he carved and sent in 70 passable orders. It was 
nearly two years before McG — would pay the 
bet, and then he was greatly in need of Carter's 
services at a banquet and was obliged to pay it ; 
but that was only one specimen of Carter's skill 
as a carver which has been so valuable to him 
that he has had fourteen years constant employ, 
ment in one city, the time being divided between 
only two hotels. 

The art and the difficulty of it consists in slicing 
broad but thin, even as thin as paper. 

Of course there are two sides of the carving 
question and the consumer may not see the sub- 
ject in the same pleasing light that the calculating 
hotel man does ; there must be a medium observed 
that will result in giving satisfaction to the guests 
at table, yet it is so true that nearly all hotel 
dishes contain twice as much as they need and the 
cost of provisions is needlessly increased in that 
way that a skillful carver who can make a dish 
look broad and plentiful without giving it much 
weight may be the most valuable man in the house. 

Some men are not adapted to become good 
carvers ; quick, impatient, irritable men are not. 
It takes an easy-going imperturbable person who 
cuts smoothly with long and steady strokes and 
does not see-saw and scatter the splinters. The 
knives must be thin and as keen as razors ; there 



can be no good carving with the ordinary kitchexfe> 
knives which are used for all purposes, and, withal*, 
the carver must know where the joints are so 
well that his sharpe knives will pass through 
them without contending against the bones. With 
such a keen knife the breast of a small chicken 
can be laid open so as to top cover four dishes^ 
which would not make any showing upon two 
dishes in the hands of a clumsy car\'er, and a 
large chicken will cover six or eight. 

The method is, to place a spoonful of the stuf- 
fing in the dish, slice meat off the drumstic and 
place beside it, or a joint of the wing and on top 
lay the white meat as broad and thin as the size 
of fowl ^^'i\\ allow. 

While such directions may read well enough It 
will be found the practice is not so easy unless 
pursued with steady system. Take up the chicken 
by inserting the fork in the cavity of the neck, 
where the crop was, and keep the fork there in 
one place until the bowl is disjointed and the 
breast is in slices. First take off the legs and 
thighs, cutting to the hip joint, then with a turn 
of the MTist throwing it out of the socket and pass 
the knife clear through, hold up the carcass and 
strike the knife through the small of the back and 
the lower part or side bones fall off. Then re- 
move the wings at the sockets. Next take off 
the first slice — the brown outside — of the breast 
If a large fowl you can get a broad slice more of 
white meat before touching the bone. Next to- 
that is the fowl's shoulder-blade, a bone almost 
like the wishbone, imbedded in the white meat 
and very much in the way of the carver who is 
not posted ; but your knowing hand takes hold of 
zt by the projecting knob, which is the wing 
socket, and gently pulls it off and the white meat 
that comes with it and covers it, and it makes a 
slice itself almost as thin and quite as broad as 
the others. Under that and lying close to the 
breast bone is another larger to be taken off with 
the point of the knife and that makes four slices 
of white meat from one side, eight from the two 
sides, to make the tops of dishes partly made up 
of a slice from the leg, or a side bone or split of 
the upper part of the back. 

In carving a turkey the proceeding is the same 
but less diflScult as there is more meat to work 
on. The usual way, which was the way McG — 
did, is to place the carving fork astride of the 
breast bone and keep it there until the turkey is 
all cut up, but Carter objected that thrusting the 
fork in there cut through a slice of the white 
meat in the best part on each side of the bone 
and he took a hold in the crop cavity as alreadjr 
mentioned. 



C866) 



THB AKEBIGAN COOK. 



267 



■^^« m ■ * 



HOW^ TO CUT 2£^^TS. 



087. Hotel Beef and BeefoteakB. 

One of those valuable oiiizens who live all their 
liTea at a hotel or other similar public house, looked 
in where we were furDishing and getting readj to 
open a new restaurant and remarked with evident 
pleasure in the anticipation: **HaI now we shall be 
able to get a good, thick steak, a steak that is a 
steak, and that is what I have been wanting a long 
timp.»' 

He meant that he would leave the first-class hotel 
where he was boardiog and where the steaks cut in 
hotel style did not suit him, and would come where 
he could h(»Te a slice of beef an inch thick sawn 
through the bone and f-it, upper loin, tenderloin and 
eTerjthing, just about where the figure 4 is seen in 
the diagram of a loin of beef below — that is if he 
meant to pay for a ** porterhouse;" but if he would 
be content with a loin steak, only coring to have it 
thick and not beaten out, he would have it cut in a 
. cheaper place, about where the figures 2 and 8 are 
found. 

The remark and the satisfied tone of it might seem 
to cast a reflection somewhere, but as the same cook 
would be in charge at the restaurant who had bden 
at the hotel, the reflection could not be upon the 
cook ; and as nothing but good was spoken of the 
hotel table, it could not be upon the hotel In partic- 
ular, but it was a reflection upon the hotel method 
to the extent that it did not suit this man's prefer- 
ences. At the hotel table he took his meal in from 
three to five courses, and the portions of the Ti^nds 
were proportionately small, but this indiyidual pre- 
ferred a pound of beefsteak to all the Tariety and 
wanted little else. These are the reasons why res- 
taurants and hotels both flourish side by side. B )th 
have their ways and t'heir admirers. If we cut the 
hotel beefsteak small it !« because there is so much else 
offered that to cut it larger would be utterly useless 
and the price of board would rule higher for no 
other reason than to pay for the wanton waste. The 
restaurant steak out in the first class sh^pe supposed 
will weigh from a pound to a pound and a half, and 
will cost as much alone as the price of an entire 
meal at weekly board rates at many good hotels. 
Very few besides eat the whole of such a slice of 
mea*. ; bat as they pay a fixed price for it it is only 



indiyidoal loss. The hotel management culls and 
trims in a way to make the least waste, and the un- 
eatable portions of bone and fat do not reach the 
table at all. 



Most hotel cooks like cut up meat ; the nicety o' 
management, the methodical application of each 
portion to its particular purpose, the neatness and 
orderly arrangement of the trays of prepared meats 
when they are placed in the refrigerators ready for 
the next meal, or it may be the association of this 
part of the day's work with the quiet time betweeo 
meals all go to make the cook look upon the meat- 
cutting as something not to be left to another with- 
out cogent reasons. It is difficult for the cook to 
"keep track" of his meats if he does not cut tl em 
himself, for an entree or some new use for the por- 
tion in hand will often suggest itself at the time that 
would not be thought of in an abstract way, and 
the make-up of the next bill of fare becomes so 
much the easier; and then when he has finished he 
knows to a pound how much he must order for the 
next day. So that in hotels where three, four, or 
five cooks are employed the head cook generally 
does his own meat-cutting ; in larger hotels it be- 
comes impracticable and another cook, the cutter and 
roasteri appears. 

The hotel method of cutting up meat is difierent 
in some respects from the butohern'. It is a system 
apart, and understood to be different, though not 
written down — like certain oral laws or unwritteo 
statutes that prevail for a certain class, while all the 
rest of the community are otherwise governed. The 
butcher flfets apart for the hotel the **loDg loins" or 
**short loin?," "short riba" or "chuck ribs" of beef, 
and "racks" and sides of mutton, but he has diflfer- 
ent cuts with other names for other people. The 
butchers differ as well, there being London style, 
German style, and French style. Round or rump 
8' eak s it is said are unknown in France. The port er. 
house cut is American and not known to London 
butchers except as it may have been adopted from 
this side On the other hand the "aitch-bone," so 
common to London butchers and English cook books 
is unknown in American hotels, unless when the 
butcher to fill up the weight throws it in as a "butt " 



270 



THB AMBBIOAK OOOX. 



Cioks are generally expected to have the magic 
power 10 make tough beef tender; for this reason 
we cut it into lumps instead of slices, and flatten it 
out with a blow. There is no method known, nor 
has an J appliance yet been patented so effect ire for 
' subduing obstinate beef as the disintegrating flat 
slap with the side of a heary cleaver. It does no** 
make bad meat good but makes it passable: While 
we must allow that it is better if the beef is of the 
tender sort that may be sliced to the proper thinness 
in the first instance, and only needs the customary 
tap with the cleaver to smooth it down to shape; the 
ftct is that in nine cases out of ten the heavy- 
handled course of treatment is a benefit to the 
.public Nor is that a method for poor beef alone. 
The huge tenderloin steaks, large enough to fill a 
dish, that are served with the choicest garnishings 
of peas, asparagus, mushrooms and the like might 
sorely puzzle a person who had never beaten out a 
steak to know where they come from so large. 



090. A Restaurant Tenderloin. 

Cut off a section of a fillet of beef about 8 or 4 
inches in length, or according to the thickness of the 
meat ; remove a portion of the skin that encircles it 
and flatten it out to form a large steak 1 inch in 
thickness, on the block with the cleaver. Trim off 
the rough edges. 



batter-cakes and syrup—coffee, chocolate and tea, 
and a few extras. It is well to keep the few steaks 
that come larger than the rest, by sccident, and not 
large enough to cut in two, for those who wish beef- 
steak only. Such are known among the cooks and 
waiters as "a fuU order of beefsteak,'* etc. 

Always notch the edge of the steak through the 
&t, that it may not curl on the gridiron. 



Contrary to what might be expected the proportioii 
of bone to meat is as great in a short loin as a long 
one. the fleshy piece marked 6, ballancing in the 
long loin the preponderance of hip bone above. The 
short loin does not get quite all the tenderloin. If 
the long loin be cut so as to have five or six inches 
depth of the round attached, which is all solid meat 
and the best quality of that cut, it will furnish a 
larger proportion of small steaks than any other 
shape of loin. 



The poorest eating, unless the beef itself be fat, of 
what are called first-class steaks are cut from or close 
to the ribs — about figures 2 and 3; but these, cut thick 
and not beaten, form the staple "loin steaks'* at 
many restaurants. Their neat shape is their recom- 
mendation, and stands there instead of a higher 
quality. The best steaks in any quality of beef are 
cut about and above figures 5 and 1. The meat here 
is better than the tenderloin, although ^that has the 
greater name on account of its comparative scarcity. 
Where the long lines end in the dark part of the 
diagram is a mountain of bone. A solid piece of 
meat of good size at figure 7 is good if cooked five 
hours, or more— braised or a la mode. If there be a 
portion of thjs solid lean meat of the round on the 
great bone of the long loin, slice it in any way that 
will cut across the grain and make 2 or g>ounce 
steaks. To know whether you are cutting the steaks to 
the right size weigh some occasionally; they are large 
individual steaks when they weigh 8 ounces each or 
6 to the pound — equal to half a pound each of beef- 
steak as the butcher sells it with the bone and rough- 
ness. The loin from which our drawing was made, 
years ago, weighed 108 pounds, and was all cut into 
steaks that weighed 7 to the pound, and they were 
the regular size and large enough. For your hotel 
people take for breakfast— Aruit — mush — ^fish, either 
salt or fresh — beefsleak, mutton chops, bacon, 
breaded cutlets, and potatoes — ham and eggs, tripe, 
liver and pigs-feet — rolls and butter— toast^ milk. 



GQl. BesultB of the Outtinff. 

The size of a hoters business is often con- 
cisely stated among the employes by the number of 
loins of beef cut up for supper or breakfast, or per 
day. Two or three loins for supper represents a 
rush of trade, only it has to be taken into account 
whether they are long or short loins. As only one- 
third of the gross weight makes first-rate steaks, and 
the cutting is usually done in haste, it becomes a 
matter of some concern to know what to do with and 
what becomes of the rest. 

The loin having been cut up as marked out in the 
last article we find it in seven different portions-^ 
(and what rules in this case is nearly the eame in 
all meat cutting) — namely: 

Sirloin steaks — first-class. 

Tenderloin steaks — first-class. 

Coarse steaks or corning pieces. 

Roasting piece, rib and flank. 

Scraps, shapeless odds and ends. 

Tallow and kidney. 

Bone. 

Nothing can be easier than to ascertain that such 
grading is necessary. Let a man take up the piece 
of the thick rich-looking flank of fat beef, that will 
usually weigh ten pounds, and see the impossibility 
of getting steaks out of it that would do to send to a 
first-class or second class table. The loin roasting piece 
may be cut into steaks, but it is not over five pounds 
and the shallow and fat portion attached with the 
rib will weigh much more, and does not furnish a 
single steak that will pass for first-class. 

A tally kept of ten successive loins of beef 
some years ago, at a summer hotel, where, while 
everything was bought of the best quality that 
money could procure, the meat supply was simply 
just what the town butcher was able to furnish with 
his limited facilities, and contracts for special cuts 



THE AMSBIGAN COOK. 



271 



or strictly prime qualities were oiit of the qaeetion. 
OoDflequently the following exhibit may be supposed 
io represent a fair average for the great mi^ohty of 
hotels the oountry over. 



o 

OB 



D 

QD 



00 
OD 
CO 

IO 

a 



to 









SI 



00 



o 
pr 



I 

2. 

5 

a 
a 



CO OD "^l 0» 
r* r* r* r*- 

or or tr or 

^tf* ^A* auMV Si*! 

P P B P 

I I ' i 

Out* OQ O. 



OR B^ 9 « 



? p* 
p p 

1 1 

**• ^^ 
p r^ 



OS td 



5? 



»«k »•« *** !S. **' 

-^2 siS:^ p 5 



p 

o 

o 
p 
p 
c 






5' *^* P 

III 

OB i» S. 
— & •;- 



P 
O 



p'w'*^ 

*1 *i t^ X 

PS c » 3 
p p » o 



P- 



p 
p 
cu •< 
o 

p 
p 



: 3- 



OD CC 00 CO •-> -^ 00 
IO »-« CD OD O 00 0» 



O CC 
->4I IO 



CD 
P" P* 



toio lOlO 

•.] 00 OD )(k, 



CO lOlO 

Oi 1—00 



roiotog'^ 

CO lO-^ r QQ 



o^ IL 



CO •-> »^ to 
en v^ o o 



OD O) CO Od 
CO r-^ 0» 00 



OD O rf^ 

ocno 



C;i t^ CO 
lO^ o» 



»^ ^ CO y _^ 
©1 o C • CO 



Cti Ov 1^ O) O) 1^ 1^ 



-.1 

o <y^oo 5: 

CO i^CO • 

A 00 o S S 
p 

«§- 

>» o 



CO 00 to 00 
O O CO »-' 



t-l l-t H' t>S 
to CO -^ <-• 



00 10 to 

O lOrf^ 



to »-» •-' 
03 0^ 



CO 



00 



OB P 



Ot ODO 

o 

-«« OS OD • © 



g: 



o 



A I H' l_t »_» l_t »^ I— > 

»l t003t-»»-»CO>-»CO 



8* 



to 03 •-» i-» 
I -v) 0» O) •>4I 



CO »-• CO CO 00 CO 



P 



Qt Ci 01 O) Od CO tU 



►-• 10 ►-» to 

(f^O OD 



CO 



to ►-»»-• 

r-^ CO 01 



^ 4^ oj Scraps 

hH 

p o 
i»k CO CO ig 2 

►-H- to tig 

QOCOCOg^g 



The averages of the above totals are bone, one- 
fifkh, or 20 lbs. in every 100; ta low 6 lbs ; scraps, sin- 
ews, shapeless ends 7 lbs.; thin flank, rib and roast iog 
piece 12 lbs ; tough, coarse meat that may be out 
into steaks or used in better ways, one-fifth or 20 
lbs. in every 100; tenderloin 6 lbs.; good culled 
steaks, all designated sirloin, three-tenths, or 80 lbs. 
in every 100. 



902. What To Do 'With the Pieces. 

Borne beef that is furnished is so good and teoder 
that an enjoyable steak may be cut off the brisket or 



at the back of the horns. Other beef comes aloog that 
is tough even to the upper portion of the porter, 
house. There are butchers who carry on a trade in 
nothing else but young and tender meat, and to have 
any that the cook would need to cull and sort could 
be for them only the result of accident. These must 
still, however, be regarded as the exceptional few. 

It is common enough to make a practice. of cutting 
up everythiog that will make a steak, in a mechan- 
ical sort of way, cooking and sending it in to the 
sufferers — for as the cook Justifies himself by say. 
ing *'he does not make the beef." 

In Europe where they don't know how to keep 
hottfl, they let the deck-hands get away with the 
thirty pounds of choice sirloin steaks and send the 
steaks cut from that we have designated as coarse 
meat in to the guests at table, who thereupon go 
away anathemising the hotel, though the deck- 
hands say the cook is a fine man. They manage 
these things differently in the United States. 
^ Some oooks, and others, who . "do not make the 
beef," but who do know that it can be sorted, avoid 
that as &r as possible by mixing off the good and 
bad whenever there is a chsnce so to cut that one 
eatable mouthful will carry two uneatable along with 
tt« The uneataole will afterwards be found among 
the waste and refuse scraped flrom the dirty dishes. 
Some sort of system that would leave such uneata- 
ble portions intact on the cook's hooks in the meat 
house, to be made eatable and even delicious by 
proper cook log must be preferable to such an ab- 
sence of any system whatever. The portions that 
are uneatable as s'eaks. exoept in very good fat beef, 
are all that marked 7 and below it in the disgram* 
and the upper or outside of the round, and another 
portion thst is too fut. The other deduction called 
the flank roast in our table will be understood by a 
glance at the two drawings of porter-house steaks. 
It is the fat, narrow, and coarse textured meat of 
the right hand side. In the same list go the scraps 
and shapeless ends. 

Hotel entrees are in the main only devices fur 
using up these odds and ends of meat. All the 
science and skill there is to learned in cookery is 
needed in this direction, and all the tact and taste in 
the individual is called into play to make these gen- 
erally supposed to be the worser portions appear the 
belter, and make them more sought after than even 
the selected cuts. 



As to the tenderloin — 6 lbs. out of a hundied — 
the cook and the head-waiter together vote that 
away in steaks. As there steaks are generally cut 
larger than the rest, and twice as large as our table 
of weights and proportions says they ought to be, 
and as there are not enough for everybody they are 
generally bestowed as rewards of merit. Sometimes 
they are given to the best looking people. Some- 
times to the people who do the most good. Wher« 



TEX AKSaiOAJT COdZ. 



lb«r« Ib ftnj danger Ihit lbs wmilar and th« hetd 
wtlUr maj differ \a opinioa of who IhsM pMpla trr, 
ihe lalUr bw aheoki prlnied— "good for one ten- 
derloin iieah" — Fhleb tlie w^ler may obUio upon 
proper TeprtaeoUUoD*, and ibfj will be dul; bon. 
ored b; the eook aa long m hU bank mnaina aolTeut 
and there ia a ateak left Id the pile; due waUhfnI. 
neu being eiiroiard to see that the oheeka are nol 
oleTerl; eieoutcd oonnterfelta of (he waiter's own. 

Anoiber reftrenoeto ouriable offigores ahowt 
that tbe leadertain rarieg greatlj in siie aooordiog 
to Ifae i&ake-np of the different beaieB. The ohoiocEt 
loin in tec had onlj 8 pounds of lendartoin. 

SomelimeH the aleward ia inorcduiouB and h*jb: 
"What, no ignderloin lefil Wh;, jou eut up a loin 
this moTDing." Ye«, but the weighlf Tiry from 
three to Bii ponnda taeb. 

The eix p^andi per hundred of beef met can be 
put to lery good um, garing that amount of boiler 
or lard for piatrj and puddingg, and when rendered 
oat ID a bakirg pan in the range garring for frjing 
M. The kidney, if inoludcd, ii worth ils piaoou 
neat. It weighg a pound, and ia naeful in the bill 

The 20 piundg of boue ia the 100 goea to make 
the goup, a'ong wiih the boneg of other meata, and 
Ihe boiltd fjwla and lege of mutton. With thil oh- 
jeol in Tiew, all the bonee should be taken out of 
the meata Ihat «an be without detriment to their 
juioinesa and good ghape, and rerj little, if any, 
more than what the hotel meat house furniihe* of 
Ihii sort, with the few really surplne outs — the 
shanke of Teal, eto. — will ba needed to make Ihe 
best of gloak. 

Q&3. Short Loin ATar&se. 

Bbort IoIdb, eloae out and trinnnad, aTcreging SO 
pounds, when cut up. will average aa follows: Bone, 
7} Ibe ; tenderlcia. 4} lbs ; girlaln attsks. 13 lbs ; 
e arM meat and fat, 5 lbs.; or, about SG indJTiduil 
sleshsorfiTe to Lhe pound, and 20 rough steaks oi 
slewiogmeat— all more or lege. 

964. Outtlns TTp the Fore Quarter. 

The choice rib roast of beef ia (he portion marked 
II in (be diagram — it is generally known aa Ihe 
short ribo. The next best ia the ohuok riba, marked 
'2. Wharethe holal or reetaurant bnyeroan lake 
ehoioR he takeg all of thoae portioas that are ole&r of 
■ he abou'der blade, which is marked k; dotted 
lines. It is generally made oompulsory, howBTer, 
for Ibe buyer to like Ibe .whole from B to B, and 
•Hen a Inngpr out, inolnding ibe loner part of Ihp 
riba. Tbe bu'eher's own Idea of the beat roast for a 
koiel U to BUI (^ >D< A to A aod seed all — roast, ribe 



and brigkct. In suoh a eut 
Ih* gro!* amnnnt, Ihe riba ai 



SoppoBiDg Ihe houBe bays (he enlire fore quarter, 
and ODt of it yon beve to out the roaating pieoes and 
■teaks, as well aa the oorning, boiling and atewing 
pieeaa, we will proceed as with the long and ua> 
trimmed loin. 

Firat, with knife and aaw, take out the roasting 
piece, from B to B, and upwards to the top of Ihe 
ahonlder. The eboios rout cut, whether in hotel or 
restaurant, ia a glioe clear of bone o& thp end, aboTe 
B, and the game out with the nine slant of the 
knib towarde the tail, ia (o be oontinued olear to the 
other end at 2. Obaerre, therefore, (bat there is no 
UBB in culting It any lower down than the proper 
lengtbofaslioeforlha dlgh; It ia better to let the 
Burplua be a cut to ilmlf, aa marked S, than to hang 
a UBdeas string on the roaaled slioe. Where thrc* 
or four of Ihtee whole rib rcaala era used erery day,- 
ihe diSerenoe amounta to aomething. At figure 2 
Ihe pleoeof blade bone diiridaa the roast io an in- 
aonrenient manner. The piece of meat on lop of 
■he bladeiaealled "the cap." ThebaloberBskewer 
it up tight aher lahing out the bone and tell both 
parts together, but for good hotel roaating it is bet- 
ter to take off theeapin'one pieoe and make the 
lowar pari uniform in siieof siloes with theothetud. 



BtJTCuaa s BOAST. 



THB AKBIUCAH COOK. 



Tbe nbjcol of ooiliog up Iha rjset is to g«t rid of 
t^a ihio mot. Tba baBi end roast ii laid* up ao 
bj DUltiDg down both aides of each rib and taking 
it out, (he Ihin f>itm°al marked 3 3 in Lhg diagram 
baiog tbea oiled around No. I. After roaaling Ibe 
thin meat i« to be diapoaed of by alicing off the toagt 
h^rilonlally. 

WhelJier or not Ibtil ia tbe best way muat be alto- 
gether detatmiDed b; the airounutaDcea goiarniDg 

Where Ibere ia a bill of fare and a Tariety of li- 
aads to chooae froiu, aud where lbs peraong saried 
with a elice of Buob ooiled up beef would ba likely 
to lelrot from i( only the choice iauer portion, leaTe 
Iba reHon ibeirpUles and make a dinner from the 
entreea,it ia belter aa in the case of Iha loin manage, 
meat, to keep tbia thin, arraggling aodflt meat back 
and put it to good use in oLhet waja. The beat way 
to uaa ihe eu'a marked 3 8 is na ribands of beef, 
baked li 1 lender, or boiled, and aernd wiib some 
good aoeompauimeai. 

Tbe bri<<ket marked 4 is a choioe boitiogand 
doming piece. 

'I he aquara, 5, containa the beat ateak; a a mall 
portion of it isaa lender and good as any part of the 
baef Tba first of the steaks shown isoulaoroaa 
where the bone is amalieat, at 6, iha other ia out at 
1 B, aboTO. To get at tbesa it is neoMsary to out oA 
tbe shoulder, rai-ing it up and ouiting under to as 
to bring away all the meat from Iha riba beneath it 
to m«ks the cuti the larger on the ahoulder. These 
are the butcher's Bioaks{ tba method for iniliTidui 
(teaks does not require tbe bone to be sawn tbroughi 
but tbe meat is to be dirided in lengths and then 
• ioed orosawiaa of the grain, and beaien out with 
lb* olaarer. 




The ehoulder having betn remuted tbe ribs b*. 
nestb will b* almiwl bare tod fit only far the siook 
bailer, bjit Ihe bresst, or brisket — eallrd "ih* 
.(lates" by the bulaher— makes the best corned beef, 
and boiled beef, and the bonei make the richest 

The meat at 6 makes a Ihln roaal. of poor quality.. 
unl BS the beef ba fat, bul, with all tbe reel of Ibv 
neok, it ia aagood as the beet to stew, or sail and 
boil, or to ,roII up and braite tender with irget- 
ablea and grary. 

The "oap," taken off al 2 and B, makes either 
steaks or a roasting or braiiing piece. It is diEfig- 
urad with a Btreak of grist that ruoa through it 
the Sal way, but which disaoWeB with long oooking 
aod makes tbe meal (he belter. 

Tba ahnnk, being broken up, is one of th« princi- 
pal reliances fur Ihe soup boiler. 

In some of the large aity butober'B shops graat- 
trays or baskets full of pieces of beef boneless ai d 
all of % eiie and of Ihe same appearance, may b» 
Been prepared e*idenlly for aome spaoial purpose. 
Tfaeaa are roasts — as we will call them fjr oonTenieuee' 
aake — laken off tbe neolta of betf, tbe dark-ahaded, 
throat part in our eat, perhaps nosaleable in lb» 
shops, but to be sent to the priennB and workhouses 
and olber sucli institutions, there probably lo bi 
cooked by steaming or boiling In a way id mBt« 
them *B good for nutriment and health aod strong D 
as the beat cuts in the beef. 

Tbe fore quarter of^beef arersges nearly one-third 

006. Tbe Bound of Beef. 

The long loin untrimmed containing bona to (h» 
amount ofoue-firtb its weigh), Ihe abort loin divesl- 
ed of the rough meat of Ihe flank baring ane-fourtb 
its weight, and the fore quarter entire about 1h» 
same, it will be seen tbat the moBt profitable cut as 
regards tbe amount of meat for the bajer is Iba 
long loin with the larger half of the round attached, 
which is nearly all solid meat. In a good fat beef 
the round steak is the juiciest, and not inferior tn 
any other out, allowance always bdng made for tba 
difference betireea tbe "silTereide," as tbe Engli-h 
call it.'aod Ihe tongh porlioa oppotile IhM is sosrce'r 
eatable a« beefsteak, but needs different eooking. 



BOOKD ITUK. 



TBB AXBaiOAH COOK. 



Th« loagh lidB ib 00)7 tbont ODc-tblrd of it ] 
<roilingup the round br iadiTlduBl itraka salooiit 
•kould be mads, ib« good lide cat IcDgthvUs in 
suitable pieoei aad Ihece ilioed loroH lb* gnii 
•nd Ihe tough aide ihould be tftken off entire, and 
where Buob meat will not eniwer for beeretrebB, bnl 
« ijetler qnilil; ia required, it ahould be eitber 
«ooked tender by boiling in the stoek boiloTBod 
(heo quiokl; browned in ft iMking pan and serred 
with gTBT; M well done rout, or elMM boiled beer, 
W ilcwed, or sailed, or a la mods. 

996. Veal Tenderloliw. 

Where veal la used eT«rj daj ii will be (band ad- 
Tiseble to lake out Ihe lenderlaina and lestrve Ihem 
to make enlteee. "Hilk Teal" ianol odea eaten b; 
Amerioaaa, bat that of from Ibree la fix month* old 
generallf Airniahcd jiclda tandeTlotna of good bIi 
and Ihe; are epi to be oTerlooked and lost In the 
baste of oarTing if left on the roaata. Aeylhing 
with the name of tenderloin haa a pasaport to pub. 
lie hvor alreadj — beef tenderloin, pork tenderloin 
veal tenderloin — and Ibe latter makes some daint; 
diebea. It needeebDrt and quiok cooking lo keep it 
moist and Juie7, and a daib of lemon jutee or vi 
gar in the prepaTaiiOD, the same aa awestbrtada. 



SIDI or VBAL. 

Kambet 1 is the loin beat end, nearlj all meal.and 
answering to tbe porterhouae oul in beef. \o. 2 ia 
nearly all bone. Mao; a bujer is deoeiTcd bj it 
who takea it for a roaat for dinner. A few cuilela 
naf be got 08 it, tbe rest ia for the soup pot. No. 8 
iatA< fillet in real, tbe aame ae tbe round of beef, 
neirljr all meat esoept at Ibe bulging kuuokle. 

It is sometimes, tbe bone being Uken oul, stuffed 
and roasted or braised, bnt is most senrioeable in 



the form of ontlela, both Dlain and breaded, whi'* 
ibe aboulder and riba do better to roasb No, 6 la 
called (be neek, as wall aa No. T, and takes id all 
tbe rib« like Ihe rib rotita of beef. Hbsn a larga 
roast of T«a1 la requirtd, after taking off tbe ahoolder 
aiw through all lbs riba at <ha plane of the dotted 
tine tbe entire lenglh from IhB nook baek to about 
figure 2, leaTing the brisket S and 0, *nd the Sank 
part of 1, all ia one pieee, to be used in fariona 
other wija. 

To make Ihe rib or "nrok" roast of Teal oonTen- 
ient for tbe oarrer take off all of lbs baok bone and 
tbe strip ofgrlstle along Ihe edge before eDoklng,bul 
leaie ihe ahortened riba in it. If of proper Bin eve- 
rf alternate alios aa itiaoarred will oart7abon« 
with it, ahiofaoiueaailfbedetaobed wilhlbeaaTT- 
Wheo taking off the shoulder, which ahould be Ifa* 
first out, ran tbe knife upwards Ter; rloee to tha 
blade bone at Ihe plaoe marked b; tbe figure 6, aoaa 
to leave all llie meaton tbe riba aDdnoneootheunder 
«ide of the sbontder, 

Tbe aboulder can be roasted entire, or boned 
and rolled sod roaated, or boned, larded and oooke''' 
aa a frioandeiu, eto. 

Tbe iwo ahankt, 4 and 5. may ne oloaely trimmed 
and the mast nted for slaws and plee, if the/ oan b« 
apared from tbe sonp. 

Veal, or the bines and irimniings, imparts lb« 
riobeat oolor to brown gravy, and makes ihe most 
excellent soups and broths. 

In r^ard to the names, it is l« b« obMr«ed tba 
"neoh" roisl is never seen in hotel bills of fare on 
Ibia aide the Attanlie; the word neok would not 
convey Ibe idra of tbe ahoiee rib portion tUai la in- 
tended. When it is not written plain "roast veal" 
It is either loin of veal or filleL 

Tbe Frenob cooks who bad to introdnoe French 
cooking into £Dgland_-Carenie and his followers — 
were evidently inpatient at having to oall tbe round 
of veal a fillet, aeoording to English □•b.ge. (br alter 
dismiasing the fillet at veal eban'y snd onrtly ^tbey 
ran to extremoi in this way: Take — ihrlr directions 
•ay— a fine neck of veal sod fiUel it, lard the jfUd 
closely wiih allernate^^d of red tongue and fitlett 
of fat bacon; pUoe Ibe fillet thus prepared in a 
Baale-pan, etc., eto. — Ihua running in a doien rep- 
ine of Lbs Ellet In a way to ssdly oonf^se one 
who had Just learned that the fillet of veal is tba 
iH- 

In Ibe fiush days of L«adville two cooks were ona 
day talking over Ibis matter over their beer. One 
of them was gray haired, traveled, learned and mys- 
is. Ssld be: "One thing I have learned, aaj 
way, and I want you to believe it and mind what I 
(ell you: Every living thlnv Sp treation'sfolafllls^ 



THE .AJEBBIOAH COOK. 



but don't jon D«Terb«t jou know whera it is dd 
more thin 70D would on thim osrd montt, '■ 
it's nerer there." 

697. The Side of Uutton. 

There ii ■ euriouBuid most incooTenitnt dispro- 
pOrtioD betwMD the numbei' of orders Tor mi 
ehopa and Tor mntton in ftiij other form; making 
the hotel dtmtDd for ■■raoke" *1ooa of motton 
burdeoaonie to the batohere as the demnnd tar short 
loioB of beef. la mtoy plaoee the prioes are ■ 
nmged thst the hotel bujer oaa gat the raohi if be 
-will paj enough for them, but the remainder of the 
side of mutton Is offered u cheap that it ie like 
getting it for Dothieg in compariHon, and the neit 
thing (be entii« elde, or entire sheep is found hftog- 
ing in the hotel meat house. 

In the M«omp«n;ing clit No. 1 is the leg; 3 ii the 
loio, and the two luins undiTided make the saddle 
of mutton, to be cut out sooording to. the dotted 
liaes. But aohoioe loin of mutton roast takes In 
else six ribs, marked 3. That ie to say, if the 
butoher sells jou a loin of mutton it ehould oonsist 
of both 2 and 3, aacording to the buloher's names of 
outs, and 4 and 5 tageLher are called the neak, beat 
«nd and serag end. In the butobers' shops, also, Ibe 
shoulder, No. 6, is generalir sliced through with the 
tib«, to make chops, and those who buy must neoea- 
sarilj ttj Baeh Urge and bone-diTided siloes as thejr 
are. Our direotions for trimming and shaping will 
not appi; nolera the coik outs Qp the tide or the 
quarter himself. 



SIDI or MUTTON. 

998. Outtinff Up the Side- 

Fint take oQ the ihoulder small, IsanDg all (be 
neat under tbe blade on the rib ohops at figure 4, 
wbioh ma; be easily spoiled b; toodeep a out. Neil, 
•aw off lb* brisks! at the doited straight line tbat 



Tuna between 8 and 7, beginning at the throat 
and taking off all the length baak to the leg in one 

Then out the side in two in the middle and ;od 
hare the raok ready Itar trimming iotoohops. 

Where seieral taeks are to be out up ihe work- 
manlike way is to out a strip of the meat an iuoh 
wide from the ends ot all the ribs at onoe, fiaiahing 
the sorapingof the ends after the diTiaion into ehope; 
but for one raok at a time it is as quiok to cut firtt 
and trim one by one after. , The same with the back 
bone. It has to be taken off, and may either be 
aawn off the whole length of the raok at once, or 
taken off each ohop pieocmeal. 

Cut the loin also into ebopa, eacb with Ihe portion 
of bone belonging chopped through till the great hip 
e beyond No. 2 is reached, when It is hrtt to 
the steaks from tbe bone with tbe point of Ihe 
knifc, and all tbe way fMmthe ribekeep the handle 
ing towards Ibe inside of the leg till Ihe list 
steak ia taken off parallel with tbe leg bone, anil 
when the fleshy part of the other side of the leg at 
lut off to one pleoe the bono will be left oleaa 
trimmed. 

im tbe chops and outlets a little, out through 
thsoutsids skin to prOTent curling up on tbe bnil- 
er, and flatten them with a lap of tbe oleaTSr. 

A side of mutton out from end to end yields 
about 30 chops and outlels, (orsleaka) without in- 
cluding the leg, hut only 30 are first-olass. 
There is the same inquiry for "a ohop with a bone 

" or "a chop with a handle to it," that there is 
for tenderloin ateake. There are but 10 fine rib 
ohops and 3 rough and tough ones. The loin chops 
at No. 2 Rie the beat ealing, and many people ap- 
preciating tbe &ct are well content with them. Stilly 
after that oonoession is made, t he American iodiffer- 

to roasi ehoulder and boiled leg of mutlou 
makes the aheep arem a remarks btr ill-proportioned 

al, ita raoks to few, its legs and shoulden so 



The shoulder of mutton, if fal, is beat roasted as 
is, with the bone in it. It is sweeter and juicier 
at way, and furnishes a few good cuts lengthwise. 
But it is more economical boned and rolled up wilh 
twine, and can be most readily disposed of if stuffed, 
ioely seasoned and cooked tender. Tbe brisket 
and neck can easily be used to adTsntage in stewe 
and pot pies. 

Tho le; of mutton is supposed to be in demand to 
boil and sene with oaper sauce. In point of faol 
the orders for it from a bill of fare will tdd about 
out of fifty on an arersge, and of those four two 
will refuse it if cooked rare, Engliah fashion, and the 
other two will refuse it if oooked well done. Better 
t up for breaded mutton cutiela tor breakfkst 
and plun boiled for supper. 



276 



THB AMBBICAK COOK. 



090. The Side of Veal. 

Every portion of the side of Teal being Under and 
fit for the best uses there is but lit le selection to be 
made. When it is a question whether to buy the 
hind quarter or the fore quarter it can on^j be said 
ilie difference in quality does not justify any greater 
price beiog paid for the former. The knuckle and 
shank and hip bone are largely in proportion to 
meat in the hind quarter. The fore quarter yields 
the best roasts and rib cutlets and more useful side 
di&h material than the other. But the whole side is 
better, for with that in the absence of pouHry, 
brains, sweetbreads and the like small meats, the 
cook who has a bill of fare to make up is still pretty 
well provided. 



lOOO. English Mutton Chops. 

(restaurant order.) 

Out the chops of double thickness, two ribs in 
each one; then take out one rib and leave all the 
meat on the other. Fla'ten it very slightly to smooth 
it, but leave it thick. A rack of mutton only fur- 
nishes four, composed of the eight best ribs. 



lOOl. The Side of Lamb. 

The dainty dish of spring Iamb may easily be 
spoil edy or at least made very unsatisfiuitory by 
oareless cutting. If you take off tli^ shoulder it 
will scarcely make two good orders when roast ed, 
and the rbs underneath it will amount to nothing 
Nearly all who ohoose their outs ask for the ribs 
(<*with some meat on 'em and well covered with 
fkV*) and the carver needs all that the oook can fur- 
bish. 

Instead of takiog the shoulder off boL3 it where it 
is, beginning at the throat. Cut along on both sides 
of the blade bone and pull it out. There will not be 
mooh time for careful boning, nor is it neoessary, five 
minutes or less will do. Saw the ribs aorossthe mid. 
die, hack through the bact bone with the point of a 
sharp cleaver at two ribs apart and hack the brisket 
through rO'tdy for cervingin the same manner. Then 
pull the meat of the shoulder well over the brisket 
and la<iien it with a skewer or two. When carved, 
t le ribs will carry a good, meaty clioe of the 
shoulder with them, and wiih a little management 
the brisket ends of the ribs can be equally well por- 
tioned off. 

The side thus prepared should be roasted in one 
piece, loin and flank included, but the leg requiring 
more time to oc^k, should be made a separate out 
The loin should likewise be oarefully hacked throuKh 
the back bone ready for oarying into slioes like loin 
chops. 

The saddle of lamb i^ the same as of mutton, the 
two loins undivided, It is a roast for a family din- 
ner or small party, the meat to be neatly carved in 



slices without hacking through, precisely as at tha^ 
hotel carving table the thin white slices are carved- 
firom the }eg and loio. 



1002. Lamb Outlets. 

For cutlets proceed with the side of lamb the same- 
as with mutton, ttfking off the shoulder, lag and- 
brisket. Take off the back bone the whole length 
in one piece carefully without losing any of the 
meat (there should be a small, sharp saw for the 
purpose), then cut off the two ribs together, (ake 
out one bone and leave all the meat om the other. 
Scrape the end of the bone, flatten the cutlet, notch 
the edge, tr m off rough ends and gristle. Cut thft 
loin into shops (cu let<<) the same ihickness, and the- 
leg, if needed. The shoulder, if used for chops, 
must be sawn across through the bone, making four 
tilioes. 



When making up your breakfast bill of fare al.. 
ways write them lamb outlets and not chops, for all 
the world and his wife will call for lamb chops, but 
if they are lamb cutlets there will be a great saving. 
Everybody knows what a chop is too well. 



For breaded lamb cutlets the slices cut from the. 
leg should housed, unless for an oinamen'al dish» 
when the prepared rib outlets will be required. 

The bHsket or breast of lamb is a choice portion, 
for side dishes, broiled, fricasseed, curried, etc., eta. 



1003. Rooky Mountain Sheep. 

The meat is not easily distinguishable from veni- 
son except when it is very fat, then it has a decided, 
flavor of mutton. Fat bucks will sometimes weigh 
as high as three hundred pounds each, but the or- 
dinary weight is about a hundred and fifty pounds. 
The hair is like that of a deer. The yarns that 
every hunter tells to every * 'tenderfoot" as soon as. 
this speoies of game is mentioned, of how the Rooky 
Mountain sheep can throw itself from the highest 
precipices and land on the rocks below on its pon- 
derous curled horns unhurt, the hunters themselves. 
do not believe. 

The choice morsel is the rib chops cut of double 
thickness and broiled or fried rarn done. The loin 
and leg oan be out into chois and steaks, and 
broiled, or oan be roasted and s« rred with currant 
jelly, and in all the ways that venison is served. 
It is good meat, and every part oan be made use. 
of. 



1004. Antelope. 

Those who think the highest pi:oh of excellence^ 
in meat is excessive tenderness should be happj^ 
with antelope, which is tender even to softness.- 



THE AKBBICAN COOK. 



27r 



HoweTer, the meat hte a peculiar musky flavor and 
little or no fatness, and is but little called for after 
the first day or two of noTcltj. Oalj the hind 
quarters are used. Gut it into steaks to broil or 
fry, or roast and serve wi'h jellj or game sauces. 



1006. Elk. 



Good for a brief noTelty, but is intrinsioally not so 
good as poor beef, which it closelj resembles. It is 
cut into roasts and steaks in all respects (he same as 
beef. 



1006. Venison. 

Doubtless the best of wild meats and b^st worth 
buying for hotel use. Every part is valuable, good 
soups being made from ihe neck and coarse pieces 
and stews and hunters' pies firom the rough cuts. 
The choice morsel is the rib chops eut of double 
thickness and broiled. The shoulders may be 
roasted, care being taken not to dry them out. The 
hind quarter is the choice roasiing portion. 



The English term haunch of venison seems never 
to have become Americanized, but remains an unfa- 
miliar word and unsuitable for the hotel bill of fare. 
Some seem to expect from it something peculiai and 
unusual like the hump of a buffalo. Saddle or leg 
of venison are common and well understood. 



1007. Bear. 

• 

Who buys a bear buys a curiosity, something for 
the guests to talk about and be pleased with, but 
makes them a present to that extent, for nothing 
appreciable is saved in the meat bill by it. It is 
ordeied wery generally in addition to the usual 
meats, to be tasted and ventured upon carefully 
rather than to be actually eaten, while those to 
whom it is no novelty rarely order it at all, unless 
they know it to be young. 

The meat of the black bear is the best. It is good 
in the &11 when fat, and to be tender enough to eat 
must either be of a young animal or have been kept 
after killing long enough to be on the verge of spoil- 
ing. The meat has the sweet taste of pork, but is 
very dark colored, and, like pork, it is hard to cook 
done. Bear steak will generally bring forty or fifty 
cems per pound in market, owing to its rari'y. A 
bear ham makes the best roast served with jelly or 
cranberry sriuce. The flank and breast can be made 
into hunters' stews, ragouts, etc. 

1008. The 'Possum and the 'Ooon. 

Though insignificant as articles of provision these 
two sleek animals, the one a marsupial with a pre- 
hensile tail and the other a fighting rodent, are 
blamable for much of the troubles of hotel keeping 



in the South and Southwest. For if the hotel help^ 
and especially the colored cook and his helpers, who 
have to work seven days in a week as it is, go rak- 
ing through the woods all night, with axes on their- 
shoulders and * possum dcgs" at their heels and fell 
ree af.er tree by the light of lanterns and help the 
dogs in the chase after the game when it jumps out 
of the falling 'simmon bush, it is not to be expected 
that the fire in the range will be made very early^ 
nor the rolls light, nor the co^ bread well done, nor 
the meats ready cut, nor the griddle hot, nor the 
biscuits anyway but*burnt black on top through fir- 
ing up the range with grease while the inside is still 
dough, to say nothing about the prospect of dinner 
where the cook is asleep in a chair at eleven o'clock 
in the morning. 

Nevertheless the opossums will be fat and large— ^' 
not at aU like the poor runts to be seen exposed for 
sale in South Water street, taken in northern corn 
fields, but which no Arkansas 'possum hunter or 
'possum dog would be seen in company wiih — and 
must be prepared for roasting with sweet potatoes 
in the pan. For it is more than likely that with the 
prospect of having one of these, the largest ofcourse, 
for supper for himself and friends, the colonel who 
keeps the hotel will forget and forgive the troubles 
of the morning, whether his wife does or not. 

The oppossum if you hold him'by the natural hold» 
the tail, will climb up on it and bite. He must be^ 
killed by a blow on the head. Then dip him in 
water that is hot enough to sc^ld but not boiling, witk 
a shovelful of wood ashes in it, and scrape him clean 
as you would a pig. The skin is very fat and easily 
scalded too much so that the hair cannot be removed, 
and a skinned 'possum is of ^no good at all. Draw 
it, wash, truss and bake it whole. 

The coon, on the contrary, has to be skinned, tho- 
skill being worth something beside, and should then, 
be split in halves lengthwise to bake. 



1009. BufliBblo. 

Buffalo more nearly resembles beef than anything^ 
else, but is not so good. It is ordered by most peo- 
ple while still a novelty, but not sought after. Cut 
up the same as beef, Into tenderloin, loin, round and 
rib rosts. 

It will piobably not be long before the buffalo will 
be extinc, the spanning of the great plains by rail*- 
roads having made the destruction of the vast herda 
easy to the hunter for their "robes." There was a 
time when the first Pacific railroad was being con-^ 
structed, that buffalo meit was plentiful enough iu 
the markets to materially inteiftrre with the sale of 
beef and lessen the price, and when it was a drug al 
t he stalls at three cent s a pound. It has already be- 
come a rarity only to be obtained in f^reesing weath- 
er from remote territories in the northwest. 



IHS AKEBICAH OOOK. 



lOlO. Outtlnff Up a Porker. 

Ai " lim«i i)h*D|^ aiid m«n eti*Dg« wilh them." 
frMh pork bu g«Dc oa< of fnahivn, bciog no loDftr 
tha &TorJie kiodof mut tl wa* twenlj jeftn igo, 
DiiIsM It lukj ba in a fav remote localitle*. 

The grfat waaterulneaB cf pjrk aa ao artiile of 
hotel prgiiaioD is ooDaeqaea'l; a malter of bat Ijllle 
oonotrD, though hgtel bujeri DMd atilJ to obaerrc 
oritiaallf the diffarenae batween * buloher'a porker, 
wbiob ii not mora wialeful tbin « fat aheep, and a 
Ikt baoon bog. ithieh will btrdly jietd Stb poundi of 
maat for the platea out of lwaDl7.flie,afe& after Ibc 
bnloher baa made a«how ofti^iDB off Ihetbiok- 
-Mt of tbe lard fh)m the oulaide. In s great man; 
botelBlbia ia the onlj kind ofpark hmiabed the year 
round, nobodj obaerring iha diffi!reao«,«hiIa all the 
figutH in the me»t bill* are high aumberi. 



Namber I ahowa tbe extent of the ihoulder blade, 
wbiob ms; be aawed through And tbe little piece 
taken out of tbe abapelj roaai, number 4. Some 
food cutletaoan be laken off at 2, if the ihouldrr is 
cut earefully, leaiiog the epareriba under it bare. 
The bulcbera'oall number 4 the fore loio and 5 (be 
hind loin. Tbe entire length can be cut intoehopa 
or roaaled, the akin being firat laken off. It it 
ouBlomaiy 1« trim the endi of the bonae of pork 
ohopa aa mutton obopa are (rimmed, Ihoagh it would 
behatd toadvaaee a reason wbj there ihoold be i 
differenee. Tbeleg, number 6, ia equall; good foi 
roaeliog or to be out into pork ateaka. The ballj, 
number 8, ia eomewhit hard to diepoM ofeoonomi- 
eall7, being too mueb atreaked with fat to roiut oi 
broiL It oaa asmetimea be used in the form of brown 



BtewF, for which the meat is flrtt fried and fiMd 
from fal; it doai to fr; in aliee* to go with ehlokOB 
in (he Marfland ilyle, but beet of all it may be pnt 
into piokle and uaed in the aoore of ways and diahea 
that require talt pork. The head m«T be prepared 
for tbe labia In manj wija, both oold and hot, M 
maj ba tound fnllj deieribed claawham, 

1011- Outtlng up a Baooo Hog. 

Take eff the bead. Split the oaraau in (wo balre* 
down the baek, not through the baok bone ai Id cut- 
ting roaaiing meat, but sawing or ohoppiog down 
both aidea, taking the baek bone out entire, kad 
generally it ia thought worth while to leave a good 
portion of lean meat on it, for the back bone make* 
aareril good diahes and tbe loan matt it of but liltla 
aooount in the bacon. 

The obine of pork ia the thick put of tbe back 
bone take* wiib aoneidentble meal from between 
tbe ahouldera. It ia either lo ba atuffadand rcMted, 
or cut in I'iecea and eiewed. 

Laj the aidea on the beaoh ftod lake off the leaf 
lird from tbe insidea. Cut tbal into email pleoea — 
tbeamaller the bctttr — and put Into the kettle, lo 
be rendered oul. Then take off the apareriba, eui- 
ting them bare or with a eoTeriog of meat, acoord- 
iug ti) eircnmatanoea. If in a hotel the apareriba 
will be found ver; aerrioeable for the bill of &re. 

Then make two atraight rati acroaa, dlriding the 
aide into three, one portion (Ming the ham, another 
the ahoulder and tbe middle taking all the maat 

All the roaghneaa, loose eada and oomen ahoold 
be trimmed off, tbe lean to make aauaage, the fat 
for lard; Ihe feet are then lo be taken off and the 
meat put in aalt pickle. The head of a (bl bog la 
either out up for ibe lard kettle or aalted and 
emokcd, CTentuall; to reappear as jowl with apinaeb. 

1012. Oood Country Pork Sausaos. 

12 pounds of lean pork. 
6 pounda of fat pork. 
3 oUDoee of wit. 

1 ounoe of good home ground black peppar. 
1 ounce of powdered aage. 
1 quart of water. 
Or, twioe as muoh lean ai fal, and aeaaoniDga in 
the aboTO proportioni at the leaat for any amaller 
quanlitj of meal. 

It doee tot; well when yau are aeaaoning laaaaga 
meat to pat out aoake of it and try it en tbe range 
lop and then ask CTerybod; within rraoh to taateand 
I ell you whether It iaaeaaoned enough, but there are 
diiadTintagea about it; for if the (eatera are hungry 
tbej will often preTaricate ao aa to obtain another 
and If Ihaj are not bnngry their Jadgeman^ 



THB AXBIUOAN COOK. 



TbB bulahsrsBTC Klwafi ttoaed wilHog to Irim 
the fkt from tbo pork thej sell knd troia the pig'i 
besdi, btoauBs > miiture of luoh fftt wi'h minoed 
beef mkkeii ths oTdiDtrj «uisage meBt of (he ihopa 
IB whioh auob k lu^e trade ii o&rried on, Ihil but 
ttw 0*0 keep np a, ooDstant Bappi/. Wllh propei 
OODTinicaaeB fbr the work a better Mtiole and bet- 
ter MuoQtd Md be made in to; hotel when there is 
• Mirplus of iimilar material. 



1013. To Cure 



12 h 



S pouade of Goe wM, 

8 ouDota ofwltpetre poanded fine. 

I pint of molauea. 
Mil these arttolea together and rnb eaah ham 
«ilh the mixture. Pack. (hem skia side dowowardi 
in a barrel and lei remain 4 or 5 dajs, aocordiof to 
the temperature. Tarn (hem oTer, Eprinkls plen(i- 
fiillj irilh ull sad let remun 5 daja longer. Turn 
them skin aide down again and add to the piokle in 
the bariel enough of brine made Btrong eoongh lo 
bear an egg (about 6 pDundg ofaaltto 8 gallona of 
water) to juBl ooier liiem. In eiz vrekBhangup 
(he hams and after fire da;e drjiag amoke them. 

Home onred hams, jowls and ebonlderB are often 
mt b; apeiliqg through being paeked froiFii in an 
•spoted plaoe. The lalt never penetratea the fcoKn 
meal, whieh nmains fresh la spoil when the weather 
turn warm. The eeilar and not the Bmokehouss is 
the plaoe lo da the piekling in. If oecessarj to 
keep hanu in aummsr it is best Id wrap (bem in 
paper and keep In a dark plice. 

1014- Onttloff up a Ham. 

W* must dwell a Utile on the ham question, for a 
pileof hame being highly eonceolrated food, trimmed 
■Jieadj, smoothed, shaved down, piokled, dried, 
moked, packed and repaeked, watched uid labored 
with, also concentrates nithin ilself a gcodi; pile of 
the hotel- keeper's mane/, and when the cook hag to 
go at it with knife and saw, the man who pajs tbe 
bills is Tcr; apt lo begin a great thinking; and the 
indioatisns are that every one sueh Ihiahs, or has 
thought until he tried it, that there must be some- 
thing wtoag in lbs hotel eaok's waj of cutting a 
bam to pieces to slioe II, and that it ought to be 
Mvn aeroas, alioe bj alioe, from end to end. 

It) most restaurant* that has lo be done for tbe 
reason that the onstomers paying a stated price fur 
their dish are apt to look more to its siir, weight 
And thiakuesi than to its fioenese, and making a 



meal of one or two artielea Ihej exprot a suffieienoj. 
But a One dish of ham has to be out thinner than 
oan be don* wilh • saw, and smcolher, neater and 
handsomer slices are required for ths best hotel 
tables than any meat saw is eapable of turning out. 
It lakes a SabiUer knib with a keen edge to pro- 
dace Ibem and for ooee siyle and ecoconiy go lo- 
gelher. If pretty hir progress is made at one time 
in sawing a hsm, that is dry, oold and hard, it be- 
oomee next lo an impossibility lo prooesd the same 
wilh a fkt, bulky ham in warm weather, and alto 
gel her loo wasteful. 



To out up a bam, first saw off tb« butt end at tiM 
lioriiontal line in the cut. Then is a center bone 
that is shown that stops the knifk cutting down from 
the shank and there is another bone not shown that 
projects from the ham at a point on the right band. 
In tbe line. That bone is the guide where lo saw 
through, because hams are not all eut quite alike. 
The seation of clear meat on ths right that is taken 
out when both euts are msdeis the prinoipal portion 
of the ham from whence those thin, shapely al iocs 
are out that make a flrstKilass hotel dish of ham and 
eggs inimitable by any reilaurant aawyer. The 
section on the left contains (he leg bone and tbe 
slicesare one-tbirdshartar than Ihe other sidcMid 
«anonly be out to about the exient of tbe duk 
■baUiog in the drawing, the great knuckle boneBI*. 
ling out the rest. It Is generally best lo boil thai 
left Bsotion and shank and not nse it to slioe for 
broiling at all. 

The bott end shown in Ihe lower figure is to bft 
held on edge and, if of a Urge bam, out by Ihe black 






282 



THE AKBBIOAH OOOX. 



them that notwithstandiDg the too prevalent idea 
that a hotel kitchen is a place of disorder, dirtt 
grease and general disarrangement, it is in fact in 
•▼ery hotel where the business is properly under- 
stood and carried on a place of as perfeci method 
and mechanical precision as any other desctiption 
of workshop or factory whatsoeTcr, and the man 
who cuts and takes care of the meats is as much of a 
skilled mechanic, and as little of a ^'roustabout" as 
the operative in any other industrial occupation. In 
a case where the circumstances vary so widely as 
between such great hotels as the Tremont House and 
Grand Pacific of Chicago, that keep two men em- 
ployed doing nothing but cutting meats, and the 
small houses where the one cook can cut all that is 
needed in the half hour before the meal it is of course 
impossible for all to follow the same rule as to limes, 
nevertheless there ought to be as much order and 
precision in one place as in the other. 

Whatever may be the convenient time of day, 
whether in the early morning, at four in the after- 
noon, or in the hour or two afcer supper let there be 
a strict rule of changing the cut meats into dean 
trays or pans — baking pans are always available and 
are generally used — and a replenishment of the 
stock laid ready in other pans to^be commenced on 
when the older lot is gone. 

The largest tray is for beef, for with all its faults 
they love it etill. In an average way four*fifths of 
the people take meat for breakfast and two-thirds 
or three-fourths take meat for supper — varying with 
the seasons — and of the whole number one half take 
beefsteak. In other words if you have one hundred 
persons it is safe and expedient to prepare fifty in- 
dividual beefsteaks. The rest of the orders are 
divided among the other meats promiscuously, mut- 
ton being next in demand; veal being run upon oc- 
casionally, when the beef is whispered about as be- 
iog poor for the time being; then ham, breakfast 
bacon, sausage, liver, salt mackerel, tripe, pork and 
kidneys. The one greater favorite than beef is 
chicken, and that and eggs at the first incoming in 
spring, or venison or brook trout or other such nov 
cities and delicacies may materially change the 
amounts of other articles required. More curious 
than useful it is perhaps, but it is observable that 
certain leaders of the style in most hotels can set 
fashions of eating certain articles of diet cooked in 
certain ways that will be followed by a great pro- 
portion of the other guests for the time, but which 
when these leaders leave all the others will abandon. 
Occasionally some very simple article of diet is in 
this manner elevated to the place cf hjghest impor- 
tance and it becomes uncomfortable for the cook 
who happens to be deficient in that particular. 

As nearly as possible, however, the cook tries to 
prepare Just enough for the meal and no more. 
Whatever surplus of raw cut meats there may be 



when the meal is over should be placed on ice till 
the next meal and then changed into clean, dry pana 
with the utmost care to prevent their acquiring a 
sour outside, one of the commonest and most damag* 
ing faults found by the fastidious in connection with 
hotel meats. 



1019. Boast Beef Rare ~ Blood Gravy*. 

That is the way it is ordered, but in the bill of 
Ukt9 blood gravy is always softened into dish gravy^ 
or in some pases into "au jus" — with natural juice 
or gravy. Certain restaurants make this dish a 
specially to such an extent, and their patrons who 
esteem it have so separated themselves from those of 
contrary predilections that hardly two cuts of welK 
done beef are ordered out of fifty. 

To cook beef just to the right point, and not only 
that but to cook it so that the blood gravy will flow 
in a stream as soon as the beef is cut is an effort of 
some skill and great care. It cannot be done if the 
beef is put into a cold range to heat up gradually^ 
nor if it is put into a pan of water dnd scraps to 
simmer and become sodden, nor if crowded among 
other meats to be cooked rather by the steam than 
by dry heat; nor can it be done if the meat is shibbed 
and pricked with the fork continually, letting the 
gravy ooze out at every pore while it is cooking. 
For a large proportion ef your people all the rest of 
the fine dinner will be as nothing at all if the roast 
beef is not medium rare and with plenty of gravy. 
Take the roast as shown at No. 994 and put it, if 
practicable, in a pan by itself, or if it must go in 
with the other meats, put it in when they are half 
done and all hot through and give it space not to 
crowd against any other. In a pan by itself put in 
with ita handful of salt, a ladlefu) of drippings or &t 
from the top of the stock boilei* anjl set it in the 
range already fairly hot, only about IJ hours before 
dinner, for trimmed roasts seldom need more than 
1 hour or 1 1 to roast, rare done; it is hard to keep 
them hot without too much cooking afteiwardSp and 
they are best and juiciest when just done. 

Probably the most perfect roasts of this kind are 
those (already trimmed, ready and hanging in the 
meat house) which you throw hastily into the hot meat 
pan already in the range when a car-load of people 
arrive unexpectedly to dinner and another roast is 
needed. The sudden heat immediately sets the out- 
side of the meat, which holds the juices within like 
a bladder. You roll it over and over in the hot fht 
and the salted glase that is on the bottom of the pan 
in the effort to hasten the cooking. You calculate 
the weight— each rib weighs about three pounds— 
the length is nothing, only the thickness of the meat 
counts — 3 pounds thickness will cook rare in three- 
quarters of an hour. Then you slice and send in 
the beef piping hot. Our entrees are all very waii 



n^iKP 



THB AXEBICA17 OOOIC 



283 



and ire iiave hundreds of them, but this is the im- 
portant part of the hotel dinner. 

1020. The Blood Gravy. 

Our carYiDg tablee are defective in their lack of 
appliances for keeping the gravy in the natural state 
and a little scheming is necessary. The juice from 
the beef flows into the usual steam-heated receptacle 
and becomfs cooked and is no longer the thing that 
is called for. Where only one rare roast is used it is 
possible to get along with the carving with the roast 
on a large white platter set on the carving board 
which certainly looks clean and preserves the g^avy, 
aod can be set in a warm place occasionally between 
the rush of first and second table. Some set the 
roast on a small carving board on the carving table, 
set a dish under the edge to catch the gravy as it 
ruDR from the beef and set a board under that dish 
to prevent the heat of the carving table making it 
hot enough to cook. 

1021. Boast Beef Well Done. 

Well done beef can be juicy and the gravy will 
flow, although in smaller quantity, the same as rare 
if managed in the same way. Where the rare roast 
requires 1 hour let the well done remain in the range 
2 hours. Or, put the thin end of the rib roast in fur 
well done and the thick end with the shoulder cap 
left on, both in to roast at one time. The cap will 
preserve the inside portion rare while the other will 
be done through. 

The spoon basting that was an important . matter 
with the old-time spit roasting before open fires is 
not so necessary where the meat can be rolled over 
frequently in the baking pan, answering the same 
purpose. But always catch with the fork some bony 
or projecting end, not to puncture the meat and let 
the juice escape. 



Apropos of natural gravy; Says Brillat Savarin: 
One day I was conducting two ladies to Melun, and 
on reaching Montgeron, after several hours traveling, 
we felt hungry enough to eat an ox, Alas! the inn 
we stopped at, though looking decent enough, had 
nothing but an empty larder. Three stage coaches 
and two post-chaises had been before us, and, like 
the Egyptian locusts, had devoured everything. 

Looking into the kitehen, however, I saw turning 
on the spit a leg of mutten, the very thing wanted. 
The longing glances of the ladies were in vain, for 
it belonged to three Englishmen who had brought it, 
and were now patiently waiting, chatting over a bot- 
tle of champagne. <*But, surely," said I, in a mixed 
tone of annoyance and entreaty, <*you might fry us 
those eggs in the gravy of this roast; what with that 
and a cup of coffee with country cream to it we shall 
be resigned to our fate.'* * Certainly," answered 
the cook, "the gravy I have a right to dispo&e of. 



and in two minutes you*H have your dish.*' 

Whilst he was breaking the eggs I went to the 
fireplace, and with my traveling knife made in the 
forbidden ^t]^o< a dozen deep wounds, letting every 
drop of thegravy run out Then, watchingtbe prep* 
aration of the eggs, lest any thing should spoil my 
plot, I took possession of the dish and carried it to< 
our room. We of course made a capital me%l, laugh-^ 
ing loudly every time we thought of ourselves hav- 
ing the best part of the roast, and our friends, the 
English, chewing the remainder. 



1022. Boast Bib Bnda of Beef. 

Take the ends of the ribs that are sawn off the rib 
roasts, the pieces marked 83 in the diagram at No. 
994, and if needed the piece likewise marked 4, and 
put them in to cook early, while break ftst is* still 
going on. Let there be in the baking pan, whicb 
should be a deep one, a handful of salt, 2 or 3 ladle- 
fuls of sweet fresh drippings from the previous day' a 
roasting, and about as muo£ water or soup stock* 
and let simmer in the oven, never getting quite 
without water in the pan till very nearly time to 
serve dinner. If, as is almost sure to be the case, 
other meats have to be crowded into the same pan 
let these rib ends be at the bottom, they will be so 
much the richer and keep on cooking in the gravy 
till tender and glutinous. At last, the water beinf^ 
all evaporated out of the pan, roU these rib end» 
over and over in the natural glaze that remains oa 
the bottom and take them out brown and shining be. 
fore they likewise get dry. Serve cuts of 2 or 3 riba 
with gravy. 

There are eertain popular restaurants where the 
above simple but delicious dish of meat sells side by 
side in equal amount with roast turkey at the same 
price per dish, and twenty to one more than any of 
the marinaded, spiced, larded and braised entreea 
of the French cuisine. In every hotel the rib end» 
are in demand fully equal to the supply of that cut, 
unless when pushed aside through the greater at- 
traction of the rarer roast chicken or turkey or 
game. As the question of how to use up everything: 
that comes from the butcher's is our most trouble- 
some problem the proper way of roasting so as to 
make this meat always attractive deserves attention.. 
To nicely glaze the meat when done is not always so 
easy as might be supposed, the pan gravy not be- 
ing always boiled down in time, but the long and 
tender cooking is easy and of more consequence, for 
if a person orders that cut oneday and finds it hard, 
tough and uneatable and a disappointment in his< 
dinner, he will hardly call for it the next day thought 
it may be never so unctuous aod savory. The meat 
mu&t have 8 hours slow baking. It is natoTatly too 

fat to eat at first but the long cooking expels the 
most of the fat and dissolves the gristle. 



284 



THE AKBBIOAH COOX. 



It 18 a oommoo pnotloe, but erroneouSi to write 
the rib ends of beef in the bill of fare ae short ribs. 
43uoh thry are in one sense, but, properly, the short 
fibs of beef is the choicest roast, marked 11 in the 
disgram, and a person who knows that and expects 
perhaps a slice of rare beef from the best part is apt 
to be disappointed with a dish of the Tery well done 
rib end^. And those who have learned to call these 
short ribs at one hotel in the same contrary manner 
find themseWes serred with a slice of beef which 
they did not call for at the next. We need anitor- 
mity of praetice^in these particulars more than in 
any others. 



1028. The Flank Boast. 



See Nos. 991 and 992. Cook it in all reepeots as 
•directed for the rib ends in the preceding article. It 
is not named in the bill of fare bat makes a rich, 
unctuous cut and is acceptable to all who call foi 
wellrdone beef. Slice it across the grain. 



1024. Boast Mutton. 

All the remarks conoerniog roast beef apply 
equally to mutton, which is sometimes called for 
rare done and is sure to be in a house where there 
are many English people. *'Saddle of Southdown 
muttcn," so frequently seen in bills of fare has re- 
lation to the fact that there are breeds of sheep 
raised for mutton, of which the Southdown is per- 
haps the fayorite, (though there are also Gotswolds 
and Leicesters and others,) and others for wool. A 
carcass of the latter small kind, the staple supply of 
the markets in some parts of this country, will 
weigh only from 80 to 50 pounds, while a South- 
down will weigh 150 and even 200. A leg of mut^ 
ton of the small kind will weigh 4 or 5 pounds, but 
of the large and fat from 10* to 20 pounds. Conse- 
quently no rule as to the time of roasting can be 
given that will be so good as the cook's own experi- 
ence marked by the kitchen clock. 

1026. About Boninff and Boiling Meats. 

Many good cooks make a practice of boniog and 
rolling up all their roast and boiled meats without 
exception, even the rare roast beef being so con- 
verted into a beef roll. We think this a decidedly 
objectionable practice, destroying the individuality 
of the meats, if we may so express it, making them 
look all alike and giving grounds for the complaint 
flometimes heard that hotel meats all taste alike. It 
is better only for the carver, who simply has to 
elice off the roll of meat from end to end. But suoh 
a roll being easily penetrated by the fat and liquor 
in the baking pan while cooking is not the same 
thing when done as a solid mass of meat that so far 
from mingling with the others holds its own juices 
ready to burst out at the first puncture. 



The only meat that is better for being rolled is the 
shoulder of mutton cf the poor, sort previously men- 
tioned; all the other rolls should be in the entrees 
with their appropriate seasonings, an exception be- 
ing made perhaps for the standing hotel dish of veal 
with dressing. 

1026, Boast Lamb— Mint Sauoe. 



It cooks in from 80 to 45 minutes. Should be 
fairly done through and no more. Needs to be in a 
pan by itself. 

Having prepared the meat as directed at No. 
1001, wash it in cold water, dredge both sides with 
salt and flour, by pressing both sides down into a 
pan of flour and shake off the surplus. Place it 
with the outside upwards in a baking pan already 
hot and containing a little salt, water and.drippings. 
When the upper side has cooked so that the flour 
will not wash off begin to baste it and repeat fre- 
quently. If a quarter pound of quite fresh butter 
can be had melt it and baste the lamb with it at the 
finish. The butter froths upon the meat and givee 
it a fine color. 



1027. Mint Sauoe for Boast Lamb. 

The proper sort of green mint not being an arti* 
ole in steady demand is very hard to obtain outside 
of the great cities and a number of execrable sub* 
stitutes are employed «io fill out the bill of fare.'* 
There is in fact no proper substitute and the make* 
shitis are calculated to disgust people both with the 
sauce and the lamb. Peppermint, whether green cr 
as essence, is not the thing, neither pennyroyal nor 
catnip nor wild mint. The gardeners know the 
proper article that makes the much be-praised Eng- 
lish mint sause for roast lamb as orange mint. We 
often hear the order for lamb *'with plenty of mint 
sauce," or with <*more of the sauoe in a dish,* 
showing that it is liked by many; still it is best when 
carving to pour the sauoe under and not over the 
meat on account of the many who are unaccustomed 
to it. When there is no mint serve brown gravy in- 
stead. 

Mint sauce is cold, a mixture of finely chopped 
green mint with sugar and vinegar. To a cupful of 
vinegar add 2 tablespoonfuls of white sugar and 4 of 
mint. With very strong vinegar a little water should 
be mixed in. 



1028. Boast Veal. 

When the veal is young and white proceed with it 
the same as directed for lamb. It must always be 
well done but taken out as soon as done and not 
dried out, as if overdone it will part into loose strings 



THE AUEBICAN COOK. 



285 



-when carTed. Serye the brown Teal gtuwj made in 
the same baking pan after the veal id taken out. It 
i8 usuallj of a light reddish brown and a finer gravj 
than that from the beef. 



1029. Boast Veal With Dreaslnff. 

The real purpose of dressing or staffing is to im* 
part a flavor of the seasonings to the meat while it 
at the same time absorbs the gravy. This is not ao- 
oomplished when the dressing Is baked in a pan 
separately. 

Take a shoulder of veal, oat oat the bone, split 
the ihiokest parts of the meat and oover the thin 
places. Spread over it thiol j the bread dressiog 
No. 942, or the sage dressing as made for roast 
chicken and turkey, roll up, fasten with skewers and 
roast about 1 J or 2 hours. 

The dressing as put into the meat is rather dry. 
Whatever is left to be baked in a pan 'separately 
-should be made quite soft with more water. 



1030. Boast Bork— Apple Sauce. 

Pork must always be welf done, and is slow to 
-cook ; sn ordinary rosst wiH usually require 2 hours, 
a leg of pork about three hours. Serve a little of 
the brown sauce under the meat as well as the apple 
sauce at one side of the dish. 



1031. Apple Sauoe for Moats and 

Poultry. 



Pare good, ripe apples and slioe them into a 
bright saucepan. Add water enough to come up 
level with the apples and slew with a lid on till done 
— about 30 minutes. While they are stewing throw 
in a little butter. Mash at last with the back of a 
spoon. No sugar. Serve hot. 



The above is the proper apple sauoe for pork, 
duck and goose. When sour apples must be used 
of course a little sugar hss to be added. But the 
apple sauce being for some unaccountable reason 
extremely liable to be forgotten till the earver calls 
for it nothing is more common than for the stewed 
apples of the supper sauee oi the pie fruit from the 
pastry room with all the sugar and flavorings of 
lemon, cinnamon or nutmeg, to be pressed into ser- 
vice as sance for the roast pork. The noteworthy 
thing about it is that this kind of npple sauce seems 
to give entire satisfHcnon and no objection is ever 
he*ird; which only proves that our people generally 
love apple pauoe not 80 much as a sauce to certain 
kinds of meats but as apple sauce for itself alone 
Mornl: Tbene considerations should make us toler- 
ant of the seeming errors of others, which may be 
better in their effects than our own right doing5>. 



1032. Boast Suoklnff "Pig, Stuffed. 

Cover the pig in the oven with a sheet of thick 
paper well greased. This being easily moved for 
basting and removed for the last crisping gives you 
command over the heat of the oven and shields the 
outside of the pig f^m becoming too brown before it 
is done through. When the pig is small and the 
skin still moist it can be scored with a sharp knife 
before going in the oven, care being taken to make 
the marks correspond with the slant of the ribs that 
it may be carved in dean outs. Also sever the 
shoulder and leg joints inside. When the outside 
has become dried it is easier to put the pig in the 
baking pan flrst on its back and after 15 minutes 
take it out of the oven and score the skin which will 
then be soft. After having been stuffed with the 
following dressing the belly should be sewn up with 
a paekiog needle and twine. A whole sacking pig 
will require 2 hours oareful roasting. Serve brown 
sauce made in the pan and some of the staffing in 
the dishes and have apple sauce ready for those who 
call for it. Apple sauce and stuffing should not go 
together. 

1033. Saffe and Onion Stufflnff. 

2 quarts of finely minoed bread crumbs. 
2 tablespoonfuls of minced onion. 
1 heaping tablesponful of powdered sage. 
Same of pepper and salt. 

1 egg. 

1 cupful of warm water. 

1 oupftil of fat from fried sausage or of lard. 

Mix the ingredients all. together in a pan, not 
trying to make the dressing too moist as it will ab» 
sorb gravy while baking. The egg or eggs should 
be mixed with the warm water before it is poured 
over the bread crumbs. 



1034/ Boast Piff With Apple Sauce. 



Pigs weighing from 30 to 40 pounds are more fre- 
quently furnished to hotels than the very small 
ones, and, as they are not sent to table whole are 
considend more satisfuctory. They are too large to 
be cooked whole but are split in halves, carefully 
hacked through the bones inside the skin scored 
across and across in diamond squares, according to 
the directions for sucking pig, and busted and 
crisped light brown in the same manner. Serve 
with the apple sauce No. 1031. To insure iis being 
done through the joints fully 2 hours slow baking 
will be required and perhaps a longer time. 



1035. Boast Ham With Spinach.. 

A favorite and very saleable dish in the restau- 
rants in the winter and spring months, and equally 



. 286 



THE AMEBICAN COOX. 



1035. Roast Ham with Spinach* 

A favorite and verj iteleable dish in the reatau- 
rants in the winter and spriog months, and equally 
good for the hotel table, the differenoe being made 
in the size of the dish, whioh at a restaurant consti- 
tutes a dinner. Usual prioe per dish 86 cents — in 
first-class restaurants. 

Scrape and carefully shaTe off the outside of a 
ham and saw off the rank end of the knuckle bone. 
It is an improvement to soak the ham in water 12 
hours before cooking. 

Boil it in the salt meat boiler Arom 2^ to S^ hours, 
aoeording to size. Take out, remove the rind, trim 
a little and bake it brown and shining — about } 
hour. 

Serve like corned beef and cabbage with spinach 
in the dish and a slice of ham on top. 



1036. To Oook Spinaoh. 

It will probably take a bushel-basketftil raw for 
60 persons' orders. There is a winter spinach, har- 
dened by slow growth that may need half an hour to 
cook. The tender spinach of spring growth will 
hardly bear to boil 10 or 16 minutes before it wastes 
away in the water. It shrinks in cooking more 
I han any other vegetable. 

Pick it over, cut off thick ends of stems, wash it 
well in abundance of water to free it from grit, put 
it into water that is already boiling and has in it a 
little salt and a little baking soda — say, from the 
size of a bean to half a teaspoonful. A little soda 
keeps the spinach green, too much is an injury. 

When done pour all into a colander and let stand 
to drain itself. Season with salt and a spoonful of 
Hi from the salt meat boiler. 



1037. To Oook Radish GreeiiB--a Sub- 
stitute for Spinaoh. 

Use the young leaves of radishes to serve with 
both roast ham and boiled jowl when spinach can. 
not be obtained. Proceed as for spinach. Boil half 
ma hour, or till the stems are soft. 



1038. About Boastinff Hams. 

Hams will absorb moisture if steeped before cook- 
ing, hence the practice where the highest possible 
excellence is aimed at of steeping them in wine with 
spice? and herbs and then baking them enveloped in 
a covering of flour-and-water paste to retain the 
flavors They will also absorb moisture in boiling 
if put on in cold water and heated slowly. For this 
reason, although a ham can, of course, be baked like 
any other meat in a pan of water and fat with a 
greased pap«r over it the common, almost universal 
practice of b^i'in; firs^ then browning in the oven 
is doubtless the best as well as the legist troublesome. 



1039. Roast Ham, Wine Sauoe. 

Sometimes we sea it in the bills of fare * au vin 
madere," or <*sauce amontillado." These are the- 
harmless little flourishes like those the good penman 
makes when he writes a card; that do no harm aa 
long as they do not make the writing illegible or ob» 
sure the meaning. 

For wine sauce see No. 956, or add wine to brown 
gravy in about equal quantities. 



1040. Ohampaffne Sauoe for Roast 



The pleasant sharp sauce so commonly served 
with I oast ham and named champagne sauce, bears 
about the same relationship to real champagne that 
champagne cider, and champagne (or white wine) 
vinegar do. Possibly very skillful cooks could make 
the same thing with real champagne. This, however, 
seems to be generally esteemed as an accompaniment 
to roast ham,since it is nearly always consumed^ which 
is more than can be said of some of the sauces of 
greater fame. 

1 pint ladleful of good brown sauce or gra^. 

} cupful of vinegar. 

} cupful of sherry or native wine. 

1 large tablespoonful of sugar. 

Mix and serve hot. This it will be seen is of the 
same sour-sweet nature as mint sauce to roast lamb. 
The brown sauoe, which is best for the purpose if 
taken from the roast veal pan» should be thick 
enough to bear the reduction of the added liquors. 



If a ham were steeped (marinaded) in wine before 
cooking for some extra occasion the wine remaining: 
would afterwards be strained and added to the 
brown sauce and boiled up in it. 



1041. Roast Ham Bread-crumbed. 

Boil and trim a ham as heretofore directed. Mix 
3 cupfuls of the sifted crumbs of dried and crushed 
bread with 1 cupful of grated cheese. Brown the 
ham in the oven only very slightly, take it out and 
press upon it all the bread crumb mixture that can 
be made to stick. Put back in the pan and brown 
it in the oven carefully all over alike, basting the 
dry places with a little clear fat from the pan. The 
cheese mixed with the crumbs acts as a cement for 
the coating, gives a rich color and a jrood flavor. A 
ham done this way is good either for hot or cold. 



1042. Xiesr of Venison Baked in Paste. 

We have never seen the line above in any hotel 
bill of fare, but if there is really any merit in the- 
very old-fdshioned method of enveloping the venisoik 



aaasi 



THE AKEBICAH COOK. 



287 



in ooat of dough there seems to be do good reason 
why it should not, and the people informed thej 
are partaking of a dish of the old English and old 
Virginia stjle. The saddle of yenison is most ben- 
efited by the coTering beoause the thin parts are 
preserved from drying out. But this is the easier 
for a trial. 

Trim a leg of venison, antelope or mountain sheep 
by sawing off the useless shank and shaving off the 
hard and black outside, or at least the worst parts, 
and wash the rest. Dry it and brush over with a 
little butter to keep the paste (Vom sticking to the 
meat. 

Mix 2 pounds of flour into a very soft paste with 
about 2 cupfuls of cold water and nothing else. 
Spread or roll it out, cover up the meat in it and 
■close all holes. 

Put it in a baking pan that it will nearly fill and 
a little water to keep the corners from burning, 

A joint that would take an hour and a quarter to 
roast just slightly rare done without the paste will 
take about half an hour longer with it. Keep the 
paste from bnrniog in the range by moistening the 
outside with water occasionally. 

When the meat is nearly done take it out of the 
paste and brown it quickly in another pan in a hot 
oven without allowing it to dry out. Serve with 
currant jelly and the natural gravy. 



The objection in hotel work to the paste covering 
is not that it is any particular trouble or at all diffi- 
cult, but the apparent waste of eatables. 

The value of the two pounds of floor is at most 10 
•cents for each joint, but as the baked crust is thrown 
away it goes to swell the always enormous waste, 
and somebody is tolerably certain to put a veto on 
the method. * 

By the old spit roasting it was probably found 
that half an inch depth of the already dry venison 
became utterly dried like a crust before the inside 
was done, and the paste resorted to as a preventa- 
tive. 



1043. Boast Venison. 

Trim and wash the meat, put it in to bake in a 
baking pan that contains a handful of salt, a little 
water or soup stock and as much drippings or fat 
from the top of the stock boiler. Never let the pan 
be quite devoid of water while the venison is in, and 
there will never be any dry crust. Roll the meat 
over or baste frequently, but take care never to stick 
a fork in it. A leg of ordinary size will be done in 
an hour to an hour and a half. It should be slightly 
rare around the bone when cut. A saddle or loin 
will cook in three-quarters of an hour. 

Serve either with fmit jelly and natural gravy^ 
which will, of course, be scarcely a teaapoonful to 
•moisten each slice— or with game sauce made by 



mixing currant orother frui*. je ly with brown sauce, 
or with brown sauce alone, according to circum- 
stances. The expense of the currant jelly accom- 
paniment to venison is in many places found more 
onerous than the expense of the meat itself. 

Venison and all the similar wiM merits must be 
roasted in pans apart from the butcher's meats. They 
impart strong flavors and also make the pan gravy 
very dark. The brown sauce or gravy made in the 
venison pan often is useful in small quantities to 
give color to the other from the beef and pork. 



1044. Hotel Turkey and Ohioken. 

Hotel poultry is always bought in lots at advanta- 
geous times, with one eye open to the quality and 
another eye perhaps a little wider open to the 
price. We remember a time back in a Missouri 
town when it was an "Uoole Mose," who wore a 
Number 13 shoe, that did ihe buying f *r the City 
Hotel and always bought the chickens at $1, $1.25 or 
$1.50 per dosen, or did not buy at all, although the 
retail market price at the same lime might be $3. 

He circulated a little amongst the market wagons, 
posted himself as to their contents, and got himself 
known by sight, and then waited for the bell that 
closed the market. 

"Oot a heap o' stuff left over, amt yer?" 

<*0h, no, not much," says the farmer, turning 
around briskly, and trying to appear cheerful, as if 
everything was lovely. 

**No, it wouldnH be much to me 'cause I runs a 
big hotel, and what you got there wouldn't be no 
more than just nothing to us," says Mose, starting 
to go away, "but it's a right smart for a man like 
you that's come so far to get left on his hands. I'd 
like to help you out and let you go home, if we 
didn't have so many in our coop now. I'll tell you 
what I can do — I'll give you a dollar a dozen and 
clean out the whole lot." 

Then when the farmer looked horrified at the very 
idea: 

**WeIl I don't care for no two bits, if that makes 
a difference to you. I'll give a dollar and a quarter 
a dozen and take all the coops you got on bofe wa. 
gons." 

And it generally ended with: 

<'Now you better let me have 'em. The market 
bell's done rung. Yoii can't sell 'em anywheres in 
town, the merchants won't let you. You got to lay 
over till to-morrow, and there's your expenses; and 
some of the chickens will die, and there's a powerful 
sight of chickens coming in on the road every hour 
a' most, and maybe in the momin' you can't sell a 
one. Ton better take it, and there's your money in 
gold right there in my hand — all right, drive right 
up to the back door in the alley — ^bofe wagons, yoa 
recollecks." 



288 



THE AKEBICAH COOK. 



Then he would shout acrosa the street: 

"I wants you one-boss hotel niggan so stay away 

from this man. Ole Uncle Mose done bought all dem 

ohickens; you hear mel" 



1045. Sorting Mixed Ijots. 

The old and mature turkeys may be known in a 
dressed lot by their larger sise, by their general 
freedom from pin feathers and smooth skin, by (heir 
wattles, and by the unbending firmness of the end 
of the breast bone; «lso, generally, by their being 
fat, which immature turkeys never are. 

The choice turkeys that the markets are culled for 
by dealers who supply high-priced family stores are 
the fat hen turkeys of about a year or a year and a 
half old. They are dean looking as to feathers, of de- 
sirable medium size, and will do to roast without pre- 
vious boiling, as the old and very large ones will not. 
Young turkeys are the better the nearer they are to 
maturity. They are generally full of either pin 
feathers, or the marks of them, are thin and scrawny, 
with high bones and little meat. They have, 
however, the one great requisite of tenderness, and 
are bought exclusively by some restaurant keepers 
because, being light, a half of the breast with the 
bone in it, or a correspondingly large appearing cut 
of the dark meat can be served to each dish, which 
has a more liberal appearance than a slice and a 
single joint from a large turkey. 



1046. Boast Turkey, Oranberry Svuoe. 

Take the the large turkeys such as are known to 
be old and not suitable for straight roasting — it will 
take 25 pounds raw weight for 50 persons, or 45 
pounds for 100, varying according to tbe rarity of 
the dish and the method of carving — ^singe, wash, 
and truss with the legs in the body. Boil them in 
the stock boiler, in the soup stock which may have 
vegetables in it and a little salt, but no spice flavors 
nor bay leaf for about three hours, or til) tender. 
They can be tried by lifting on a fork and pulling 
the wings, which will part from the body when 
done, or by raising the meat of the drumstick. Then 
take them out on a baking pan. 

Your turkeys are now good eating, hardly to be 
improved by roasting, and all the harm that is done 
to them, the deterioration into dryness, stringiness 
and insipidity that brings hotel turkey into disre- 
pute takes place afterwards by ruinous dry baking 
in the oven. They are already cooked, and you can 
let them wsit till there is room and the range is hot. 
Dust them lightly wi^h flour. Pour enough water 
or stock into the pan to keep it from burning, and 
some of the fit from the top of the stock boiler, and 
brown them off quickly. If fresh butter is cheap 
enough baste them with it and the turkeys will sooa 
be of a rich deep browJD, will cut moist, compact and 
ender without parting into only dry strings. 



The common mistake in cooking old turkeys is in- 
boiling them half done and thinking to finish the- 
cooking in the oven. They dry out. 

Serve with cranberry sauc^ on one side of the 
dish and a little browoT^sauce made with the residue - 
of the butter in the turkey psn poured under. 

Turkey stuffing and cranberry sauce ought not to 
go together. It makes too much of an incongruous 
mixture in one dish, and, as the dressing needs 
gravy as well, it takes too much time in the carv- 
ing. 



1047. Oranberry Sauoe for Turkey. 

2 quarts of cranberries. 
12 ounces of sugar. 
1 small cupful of water. 

Wash and pick over the cranberries, put them in- 
to a bright kettle with the water, spread the sugar 
on top, shut ia the steam and cook at the back of 
the range where they will not scorch at tbe bot. 
tom. When done, stir up to break the berries* 
Serve warm. 



1048. Oranberry Jelly for Roaet Tur- 
key. 

Cranberry jelly for wild turkey and game and 
cold dishes and pastry is easily obtained by drain- 
ing off the syrup from well cooked cranberries be- 
fore they are stirred or mashed and letting it get 
cold. The berries then stirred up with a little moie 
sugar make equally good cranberry sauce. 

1049. Boaat Turkey, Stuffed. 



Take fat hen turkeys or young but full grown 
gobblers, singe, and pick over and wash them. 
Stuff them with the bread dressing No. 942, or the^ 
same seasoned with sage, and twice the quantity, 
and roast for two hours, according to the general di- 
rections for roasting. 

It is a good sign that a turkey is done when little 

jets of steam burst out of the breast and fleshy 
parts. 

Young turkeys will cook in about an hour plain, 
or an hour and a half when stufited. 



1050. Boast Turkey, Brown Oyster 

Sauoe. 



Roast young turkeys not stuffed, about an hour, 
or till just done. Serve with the brown oyster 
sauce, No. 854. 



1061. Boast Turkey, Stuffed with Oys- 
ters. 

Read No. 855. Twice the quantity of oyster- 
dressing will likely be required for turkey for 50. 
Serve the dressing with the turkey in the usual 
manner, and a little brown sauce made in the tur- 
key pan. 



THE AMEBICAN COOK. 



2S9 



1052. Boast Turkey, Stuffed with 

Obestnuts 

There are two or more ways commonlj practiced. 
One is to mix the whole chestnuts with enough of 
the common dressins^ to keep them together, ap» fiU 
the turkey with the mixture ; another ie to mince 
the chestnuts very fine after boiling them tender, 
season well with butter or part suet, and salt and 
pepper, and stuff the turkey with the preparation, 
which results in a dish scarcely distinguishable from 
turkey stuffed with mashed sweet potatoes — a way 
that is really yery good, but takes too many chest- 
nuts. 

For the first of the above ways make for two tur- 
keys the Yeal stuffing No. 956,in twice the quantity, 
and boil about 80 or 100 of the large foreign chestnuts 
much as you would potatoes, in salted water, then 
peel and scrape them off the inner skin. Mix 
them with the veal forcemeat and use to stuff the 
turkeys. 



Sausage meat can be used instead of the Teal force- 
meat. Also, turkeys are stuffed with sausage meat 
mixed with one-third as much fine bread crumbs 
added dry. There is a style called a la ehipolata 
that means with little sausages, made by twisting 
link sausage into short lengths like chestnuts in sise. 
These are used like whole chestnuts in stuffing, and 
also in the sauce or gravy. 

1053. Ohestnut Sauoe for Turkey. 

Boil chestnuts tender, peel, cut them in halves 
and mix them with the brown sauce made in the 
turkey pan. 



1064. Puree of Obestnuts for Boast 

Turkey. 

A puree is a pulp of meat, vegetables or fruits 
pressed through a seive. 

Boil 50 large chestnuts for half an hour, peel 
them, scrape off the furry inner skin, wash free 
from dark specks, then boil them in a little soup 
stock one-half hour longer. Mash them like pota- 
toes, season with salt, thin down to the consistency 
of a thick sauce with hot milk and a little butter, 
and stir it through a gravy strainer. Best sauce 
f<y turkey or chicken stuffed with sausage. 



1065. Wild Turkey witb Oranberry 

Jelly. 

We can dispense with the somewhat expensive 
covering of thin slices of fat salt pork or bacon for 
domestic turkeys, but not very well when a wild 
turkey is to be roasted. The most considerable part 
of it is the solid dark meat of the breast. Cover 
that part, at least, with very thin bands of fat salt 
pork, tied on, cover the whole upper part of the tur- 



key with a moveable sheet of thick paper well 
greased, and roast the turkey in the oven for nearly 
or quite 2 hours. Wild turkeys sometimes weigh as 
high as 26 pounds each, and even more, and in such 
oa«es need long cooking in a moderate oven witb 
very frequent basting. Let the water dry out of 
the pan at last, increase the heat, take of the paper 
and slices of pork and brown the outside quickly. 

Wild turkeys should not be stuffed as long a9 
they are a rarity in any place and there is a curi- 
osity to taste the natural flavor unalloyed with 
herbs and seaBoning|s. 

Serve cranberry jelly No. 1048 cold, or currant 
jelly in the dish and a little brown sauoe poured 
under the meat. 



''The flesh of the wild turkey has more color and 
flavor than that of the domestic turkey. M. Bose 
tells me that he has shot some in Carolina much 
finer than those we have in £urope, and he advisea 
all rearers of turkeys to give them as much liberty 
as possible, to take them out in the fields and even 
the woods, in order to heighten their flavor and 
t)ring them nearer the primitive species." — Gas- 
tronomy, 



''There are three places in France rivals for the 
honor of furnishing the best poultry: Caux, Mans 
and Bresse. As to Capons, there is some doubt in 
deciding; and that which a man has his fork in 
must be the best. But as to chickens,the finest are 
those from Bresae, which are as round as an apple. 
It is a great pity they are so are in Paris where 
they only arrive when sent with a present of game.'' 
^Ibid. 



1066. Boast Oapon. 

This, 80 often present by name in the hotel bill of 
fare, there is no reason to believe is seldom, if ever^ 
outside of New York, present in reality. 

A capon is a young male chicken gelded, by mak- 
ing an opening in its side and then sewing it up 
again, in order to make it fatten. So that although 
an immature turkey is never fat, an immature fowl, 
if caponized, may be made extremely fat if put 
through a course of cramming. These fat, young 
fowls are first choice as they can be roasted in the 
same time as a chicken and have twice the substance. 



1067. Boast Spring Ohlokens. 

Cook them only about half an hour in a hot oveii 
with drippings and salt in the pan and very little 
water — barely enough to keep the pan from burn- 
ing. They are better for being rather crowded to- 
gether than in a pan too large. Tumble them over 
several times to get them light brown all over with- 
out drying out. A final basting with good butter la 
an improvement both to the chickens and the gravy 
that is to bo made in the pan, bui the most of the 



S90 



TEB AMBBIOAK OOOX. 



drippiogfl should be ladled out first. SerTe 
halves or quarters of the small ohiokens cut through 
4he bones. 



106a Boast Fowl, Brown Oelery 

8auoe. 

' All the remarks oonserning the skillful cooking 
of old turkeys to make them as good as the young at 
No. 1046 apply equally to fowls. There is no d!f 
ference in the time required for cooking. Some 
fowls will not be tender in less than 6 hours boiling, 
4 hen they should be browned in the OTcn as quickly 
as possible. 



1059. Brown Oelery Sauoe. 

Take the outside stalks of oelery, white, tender 
and good, but such as are left in the oelery glasses 
when the people have picked out all the hearts,Borape 
off the- back of each stalk, laid on the table, to re 
moTO coarse fibres and make it look smooth. Gut 
into bits about like the haWes of chestnuts in chest- 
nut sauce; boil them in salted water or stock till 
tender — 20 or 30 minutes. Drain and put the 
pieces into the chicken or turkey gravy, and let 
azmmer awhile that the whole may be mildly fla- 
▼ored. 



1060. Bread Dressinff for Ohloken and 

Turkey. 

"Chicken with plenty of dressing/' and *<some 
more of the dressing on the side/' are some of the 
orders that come and make hotel cooks think the 
dressing or stuffing is something worth giving at- 
tention to, to make it good. It can be made so that 
it is actually better eating than the fowl itself, being 
savory and exciting the appetite. The sense of hav. 
ing dressing to fowls at all lies in the intention that 
4he seasonings shall be imparted to the meat in 
oooking and the juices of the meat be at the same 
time absorbed by the stuffing. It should not, there- 
fore, be made so wet that no more moisture can be 
Skbsorbed, nor yet be crammed in solid. 

The hasty way, when time is short, but not the 
best, is to shave off all dark crust from the rolls or 
fllices of bread and throw them into a large tin pan. 
Turn on plenty of cold water, (hot water will not do 
ss the bread can never be squeesed dry after) and 
after 5 minutes soaking turn into the large colander, 
let drain, and then press dry with a plate, and the 
oolander tipped on one side. After that, season ac- 
oording to the proportions of the following receipt. 

But this is not a difficult method, and if it takes 
a little longer cutting the bread, is better for every, 
thing except for baking separately in a pan. 

4 pounds of bread (80 to 40 cold rolls). 

2 heaping teaspoonfnls of powdered sage. 

Same of mixed pepper and salt. 



1} pints of warm water — 8 cupfuU. 

1 pint of the fat from fried Bausage,orlard,or butter. 

2 eggs, or 4 yolks (not essentiaL) 

Gut the bread in dice all free from dark orost, put 
in a large pan, add the sage and salt and good black 
pepper enough to season well. Mix the warm sau- 
sage fAt, water and eggs (if afforded) together and 
pour over the bread. Stir up well but do not try to 
mash it to paste. 

Finely chopped suet answers well in the above 
instead of other shortening, and often is the meant 
of saving its weight of butter. More water will be 
needed when suet is sued. 



1061. Roast Ohloken, Stuffod. 



The best fowls for roasting are young, fat hens 
about a year old, as they can be roasted as they 
ought to be without previous boiling. 

Singe, draw, wash thoroughly, and stuff withHhe 
bread dressing of the preceding receipt. Truss 
the legs in the bodies. Roast in the oven about 1| 
hours. 



1062. Bread Sauce, Brown. 

^^^^^ 

This made in the pan the fowls are roasted in, 
savory, rich and liked by everybody, has no resem- 
blance to the English bread sauce that is sometimes 
heard of but never wanted. English bread sauoe is 
a white puree, made by boiling milk with a out up 
onion in it and putting in white bread crumbs till 
it makes a sort of mush, seasoned with butter, salt 
and white pepper. 

Brown bread sauce can only be made good in the 
chicken or turkey pan by great care to prevent the 
stuffing, that either has escaped from the roasting 
fowls or is mixed in the gravy foi the purpose after 
they have been taken out, froai burning on the bot- 
tom and getting a smoky taste like burnt espagnole 
while it is bt owning. 

Set the pan (after the chickens or turkeys have 
been taken out) on the upper shelf of the range, 
should the bottom be too hot, until the bread crumbs 
(stuffing) in it have become brown, the water that 
was in the pan has all dried out, and the fat re* 
maioing is quite clear and can all be poured off al* 
most to the last drop, the gravy and bread all stick- 
ing to the bottom. 

The grease being got rid of pour a quart dipperftil 
of hot water or stock into the pan and stir up the 
contents and let boil without soorohing for a few 
minutes, then strain it into a saucepan by rubbing 
through a gravy strainer with the back of a spoon. 
If not thick enough it can be thickened in the sauce- 
pan while boiling at the side of the range. It is al- 
ready seasoned with the salt that is invariably put 
into every pan that meat is roasted in, and the 
dressing. 



THB AKBSIOAN COOK. 



291 



1063 SpriDff Ohioken, Maryland Style. 

These can be done in a skillet or frying pan oyer 
the fire, as (hey doubtless generally are for a family 
p%rty, yet we ha^e always found in southern hotels 
that eyen ''Old Aunty" herself was glad to slide the 
big pan containiog three or four dosen into the 
range and be done with them all at once. And they 
seem just as good. The boarders at such hotels hay- 
ing chicken cooked this way for breakfast almost 
un&ilingly during two-thirds of the year and for a 
period in the fall for supper likewise, learn a good 
many things about chickens thU others in less fa» 
yored localities never become poultry wise in. They 
learn the differences of quality in the different 
breeds of chickens, how, when all are cooked pre. 
oisely alike, some kinds are white-fleshed, succulent, 
juicy and eyen fat, while others are little better 
editing than so much basswood — such differences as 
exist between Dorkiogs and Shangais. 

Singe and pick the chickens free from pin feath- 
ers. Instead of the usual posterior cut draw the 
chickens by splitting down the back bone and 
opening them. Cut off the neck and yent and then 
diyide in haWes through Cht breast bone. Wash 
them thoroughly, then lay out on board or table, 
dredge with salt and good home ground black pep- 
per, then dip each piece into a pan of flour, flouring 
it on both sides. 

Coyer the bottom of the baking pan with slices of 
dry salt porV, not smoked, cut yery thin that it may 
not t«ke much in weight, and bake light colored to 
extract the fat. 

Take out the slices and fill the pan with the chick- 
ens laid close together, the skin side down. Bake 
in a hot oyen about J- hour, basting with the fat 
from the corner of the pan (it almost always 
needs some fresh butter added) and when the upper 
side is light brown turn the pieces over and brown 
the other side — raised on to the shelf of the oyen if 
necessary, as the pan should not be allowed to get 
brown. 

Take out the chickens, pour a dipperful of milk 
into the pan and let boil up with the grayy and 
flour that is on the bottom and when done strain it. 
Serye a slice of the crisp pork on each piece of chick- 
en and gravy in the dish. 



« 

old goose from a young one after it is dressed. An 
old goose is a very undesirable article of food, but 
young or <*green'* geese can often be obtained direct 
from thef^rms 

If stuffed with bread the proper kind is the same 
as for sucking pig. No. 1033. 

Besides that all the stuffings used for turkeys are 
suitable, the oyster dressing, No. 855, being gener- 
ally esteemed. 

Not to ^o over the same ground again, those who, 
having a goose of doubtful age would majie it good, 
should take the faint from the directions for roasting 
rib ends of beef at No. 1022. 



1065. Boast Domestic Duok, Apple 

Sauoe. 

The same as domestic goose preceding. Apple 
sauce is served both with goose and duck. See No. 
1081. 



1060. TouDff Ducks, with Green Peas. 

An early summer luxury. Roast young ducks like 
spring chickens, not over thirty minutes, without 
stuffing. Serve carved in halves with young greec 
peas in gravy. 



1064. Domestic Gkx>se and Duck. 



One of Chioago's best known and most successful 
restaurateurs, Mr. Charles W. Baldwin, who is one 
of the oldest and best buyers in the market says, 
Jestingly, about choosing geese: "Try whether you 
can push the end of your finger through the skin; 
pull the wing and see whether it will crack as if 
pulling off*; try the legs, try the breast bone, then 
shut your eyes and guess at it and you will know no 

more about its age than you did before," which is tie, that rose and let off 
-equivalent to saying there is no way of knowing an \ pressure became too greaL 



1067. Wild Geese and Brants. 

The writer of these articles might have been in. 
clined to ignore the process called braising — of 
which more will have to be said when we come to 
the entrees — as of little consequence in a system of 
cooking in which the meats are baked in gravy in a 
closed range had it not been for one bit of experi- 
ence. Every one, almost, knows how wiry, tough, 
dark, dry, scraggy, bony, hard, and generally unsat- 
isfactory wild geese and brants are, notwithstand- 
ing the pride the hunters feel in capturing such 
large game, at least after the ordinary method of 
roasting. 

This was an old fashioned kitchen in the south* 
west in a region full of reedy lakes and swamps 
where wild fowl abounded and, whether or no, 
these wiry wild geese were continually piled in up* 
on us to be made the best of. And there was noth. 
ing that g4ye as poor returns for the trouble or that 
one could take as litile interest in carving; they 
were all carcass and no meat worth calling a good 
cut, the india rubber wings being condemned before 
hand and the legs barely tried, being mostly thrown 
away. 

There was in the kitchen one large iron pot made 
of metal half an inch thick, that had a lid made to 
screw on. When closed it was almost as steanu 
tight as the screwed on lid of a modern glass truii 
jar, and it had a safety valve like the cork of a bot- 
tle, that rose and let off steam when the inside 



9292 



THB AMEBXCAN COOK. 



I made this ketilesnd the intractable wild geese] 
and brants aoquainted with each other. The boit« m 
was covered with slices of salt pork. One or two 
nions were thrown io, a dosen cIoycs and sime 
bruised peppercorns, and salt. Then, as the wild 
geese were not siuffed or otherwise occupied, in or- 
der to economize the space, the meanest small wild 
ducks in the pile were sometimes crammed into the 
biggest geese, and the kettle was filled to its full ca. 
pacitj. A little water or soup stock and fat from 
the top was then added, the lid screwed on and the 
cooking began. 

She would blow off steam sometimes like any other 
aafetj tsItc boiler — otherwise there would have 
been an explosion. 

As most people know, water when once boiling 
never gets any hotter in an open vessel, but the 
added heat changes it to steam which goes off. But 
the steam if shut in can be made so hot that the 
pipes that confioe it will brown a loaf of bread 
placed wuhin a coil of them. Ihus the wild geese 
with the steam shut in were subjected to a roasting 
degpee of heat wii hout the roasting dryness At the 
end of two hours they were as tender as young 
chickens, and fine and full flavored. The grease 
was tbe I skimmed from ihe liquor remaining, and 
gravy made in the kettle by adding water and 
thickening and Ptraining it. Wild goose cooked 
this way soon became <'all the ra£^.". In keeping 
hot io the oven the outside would dry and glase as 
if roasted, but in fuct nobody cared whether roasted 
or braised, they merely called for more ol that 
wild goose aod the traveling man came again an- 
other day. 

Toai » articular pattern of iron kettle I have never 

met wi h nor been able to buy since, but imitate th® 
moibod as closely as possible with the largest size 
of iron pots, with greased paper covers and tight 
fitting lids and weights on top. 

1068. Boast Wild Qoose, Giblet Sauoe. 



The method described in the foregoing article be- 
ing essentially one of brai*ing, we give here the 
details for the satisfactory roasting of wild geese. 

It is well to remember that scalding does no good 

in remotiog tbe feathers, the jF have to be plucked 

dry, or paitly plucked, then singed with lighted 

paper, and then picked over, singed again, and 

washed. 
Take off the wings all but the first joints — the 

bony pinions have nothing on them. Draw tbe 
geese, aod save the gizzards aod hearts, but not the 
livers. Also keep the necbs. cut off Ciose to tbe 
body, to make the gravy. Cot off the lower part of 
tbe legs. Then wash the gee^e thoroughly. 

Make the deepest baking pan in the kitchen hot 
beforehand, with salt, water and drippings in it. 
crowd in the geese so that they will lie close to- 
gether, dredge pepper over, lay a dozpn or more 



slices of fat salt pork over tbe top aod s'ide the pan 
into a hot oven. Where ealt pork cannot be af- 
fordel .^ke the suet out of a loin of beef and beat it 
out to a sheet. 

Let this cooking commence three hours before 
dinner, and when the pork slices are browned and 
shrunken cover the geese with a sheet of thick paper 
well greased. Baste frequently. 

At the end of about two and a half hours the wa- 
ter should be all gone, only fat and glaze remaining*- 
and the geese rolled over two or three times — with- 
out a fork ever being stuck into them, however — 
should be light brown and well glazed Then take 
them out before they become dry and hard. 



1069. Giblet Sauoe. 



Boil the gizzards, hearts aod nesks of geese, ducks 
or fowls in a saucepan of soup stock or water for 
three hours. Add an onion and some peppercorns 
while they are cooking, but no salt. When tender, 
strain off the liquor into another vessel and cut up 
the gizzards, etc., into dice shaped pieces. 

When the clear grease has been all poured cff 
from the pan the geese are roasted in put in the 
giblet liquor instead and let it boil up and dissolve 
and mingle with the glaze on the pan. Strain off 
the gravy thus made and put into it the out up gib> 
lets. 



1070. Boast Wild Goose, Stuffed* 

For stuffing, use the sage and onion dressing Nc 
1038. In other respects proceed as directed in ihe 
preceding article. If, as is most likely, the roasting 
pan should be so coated with the dressing from tbe 
geese as to be unsuitable to make sauce in, mix 
the cut giblets with the brown sauce of the other 
meats. 



It takes about eight wild geese for dinner for fift^ 
persons choosing from a bill of fare; or 12 mallard 
ducks or 18 small wild ducks, depending somewhat 
on the method of carving and on what other attrac- 
tions in poultry and meats are offered. 

1071. Wild Ducks. 



Some Sooth Water street game dealers who have 
felt interest enough in it to make note of the mat. 
ter, say that about or nearly 100 different varieties 
of wild ducks come to tbeir bands in the course of 
trade. One of them — aMr. Maltmao, I believe — 
has the proof of the statement to show in a stuffed 
specimen vf each variety which he has preserved. 
Nine.tentbs of these, however, are scarce and sel- 
dom met with, the remainder comprise the familiar 
varieties that are plentiful in the market and known 
to all. The Mallard, largest and most abundant, 
is f ir'unately one of the best as well, being a half 
domesticated frequenter (f the cirnfields and other- 



THE AMEBICAH COOK. 



293: 



eueh oultivafed feediog plftoes. The comm'*n p ice 
ranges from $2 to $3 per d zen. 

The higbe t priced is the Cadyu back, which 
bean a fictitious Tslae because of its repatation for 
a certttin fine flavor s^id to be derived from feeding 
on watereelpry oo the eastern coasts; but being f uod 
inallpartsof the Wpst,eyen to ihe R oky mountain;', 
Is still always in demand for shipment to ihe east- 
ern marke's, the price being usually about $6 per 
dozen. The duck that is equal to the western Cm. 
▼as back is the Red heid. The Teals, fattest and 
tenderest and smallest, are in like manner very 
nearly equalled in quality by the Butter balls. 
Price, $1 to $2 per dozen. 

The above mentioned are the kinds for the buyer 
to choose for good qualities. Then come a mixed 
company of Pin (ails, Spoon bills. Divers, Fish ducks 
and others that are in the same category of hard cas- 
es with the brants and wild geese, but nave the re- 
deeming quality of being low priced. 



1072. Boast Oanvas back and Bed 

Head. 



These ducks are not to be stuffdd; their excel- 

lence consists in their own natural flavor; but pepper 

and salt them inside and out. They are not to be 

washed, but being picked over, singed, and drawn 

carefully, are well wiped both inside and outside 

with a cloth. 

Put them into a pan already hot in a hot oven — 

the pan only just large enough to hold the ducke, 

having the usual moistening of water and stock 

boiler fat or sweet lard in small amount, and a 

little salt. Roast them only from 20 to 30 min- 

utes. 
They are said" to be unfit for the table if cooked 

five minutes too long. 

They are the good carver's delight, e%ch duck 
making only two dishes. With the carving fork 
holding the breast bone take off the meat of the 
entire side with both leg and wing, skillfully sepn- 
rating them from the carcass at the joints. No 
gravy required, but the natural gravy that flows 
fVom the ducks preserved and served with them the 
same as with roait beef. 

They should be carved on a warm dish. 

Seiye fried pota*o cakes or croquettes or fried 
hominy cakes with canvas bioks in Maryland etyle. 
For^ the French wny, '*au cressoUf* place a bunch 
or border of water cress, fresh but quite free from 
water, in the dish. 



1073. Boast Mallard Duck 

Being naturally tender, it will cook in 25 or 80 
minutes, if not stuffed. 

It is generally an improvement to stuff it the 
same as wild goose or turkey, and roast it an hour. 
A duok will make four dishes with dressing, out in 
quarters through the bones 



1074. Boast Tdal and Butter ball. 

These are c?mmoDly kept for broiling. Roast 
them in 20 minutes without s*uffiag. Serve halve» 
cut down through the bones and g)od brown gravy 
poured under. 



1076. Oommon Wild Duoks. 

May be made good in the ways directed fur will' 
geese, by slow baking. From 1 to 2 hours cooking^ 
is necessary. They can be used to good advantage 
in other ways besides roasting. . 



. Articles such as small birds not found in this li-t 
of roasts will be found in place in the book of en> 

TRIES. 



1076. Boiled Bibs of Beef, with Horse- 
radish. 



Boil the same cuts as directed for roast rib enda 
of beef in the soup slock for 8 hours. Serve cuts 2 
or 3 ribs long with a tAblespoonful of grated horse- 
radish in the dish. Less than half as many orders 
as of the roasted ribs are needed to be cooked thi» 
way. 



1077. Boiled Salt Beef, with Veget- 
ables. 



The English and French make a more decided 
distinction between plain salted beef and oornrd 
beef than we do. 

It would, perhaps, be difficult to gain any appre- 
ciation for the merits of plain salt beef at the Amer- 
ican hotel table, and yet there are public eating- 
houses, and many of them in London, where huge 
rounds of beef plainly malted and plainly boiled, 
with the gravy running out abundanly, are cut up 
every d«y. The popular accompaniment is boiled 
carrot?; sometimes turnips, stewed peas, Brussels 
sprouts, (a species of small cabbage that grows in 
bunches on the stem) or dumplings. 

Put the flank rousting piece, or the tough side of 
the round, in a jar with some salt and rub it with 
salt every day for a week. Then wash ii and boil 
3 or 4 hours. 



The American equivalent and substitute for the- 
f •regoing is the universal corned beef and c*)bbage. 
The meats denominated a Vecarlate in the Eoglisli- 
Fresh ciok books are corned merits — round of beef 
a Vecarlatty scarlet or reddened beef. Tongue thf^ 
same way. And chicken or other meats that are- 
not corned when a Vecarlate are ornamen'od. 
larded or mixed with corned meats, such as red Ion* ' 
^ue. 



294 



THB AMBRICAK OOOK. 



1078. Ck>med Beef and Oabbage. 

This ifl a dish almost as permanent in the hotel 
bill of fare as the roast beef itself, and almost as 
necessary. 

The whole subject of corned beef — making (he 
brine or pickle,general management and cookiog-has 
been fully treated of already at N 0.792 and sucoeediog 
articles. Were any tender cuts of meat ever corned, 
in the hotel economiiation of material two or thxee 
hours* boiling might be as good as the five hours' 
there recommended. But the first requisite to 
making any dish of meat popular is to haye it suffi- 
-ciently tender. The best brisket pieces for oorniog 
are the grlstliet, and when it is a matter of choice 
betwixt starting the cooking of the corned beef be- 
fore the busy time of breakfast begins or waiting 
till the opportunity arrives aftei wards, which will 
probably be not till 10 o'clock, it is always advisa- 
ble to take the early hour. 



1079. To Boil Oabbaffe. 

Cut one large head or two Fmall ones, if to go 
with corned beef alone, or twice as much if to serve 
as a vegetable besides, into quartern, and cut awsy 
the thick stem. Let remain in a pan of cold water 
till wanted. 

Two hours before dinner put it into a pot of water 
that is already boiling and has a little salt and a 
pinch of baking soda in it. Young summer cabbage 
will cook in from 30 minutes to 1 hour, solid winter 
<;abbage from 1 to 2 hours. 

It does not follow because a little soda in the wa. 
ter is good that more must be better. Use, say, 
half a teaspoonful. It keeps the leaves of summer 
cabbage green and softens winter cabbage so that it 
•cooks in half the time required without soda. 

When nearly done, drain off the cabbage in a col- 
ander, fill up with liquor from the corned beef 
boiler, or with part water, if that is too salt, and boil 
again. At last drain off again and chop it a little in 
the same vessel. 

Dish a spoonful in a flat dish and a slice of ccrned 
beef on top. 



1080. New Engrland Boiled Dinner. 



One of the first favorites in restaurants where 
«ach dish bears a stated price, being a compleie 
dinner or two kinds of meat and a variety of veget. 
ables, with bread at the side. 

The price in the best Chicago restaurants is 35 
cents, fthe outs and the dish it is served on being 
both of a liberal size. 

The New England boiled dinner is generally dis- 
favored by hotel keepers as a hotel dinner dish, be- 
cause, however good and complete it is, through the 
unbreakable routine of the waiters and cooks who 



dish up the vegetables, the person ordering is pretty 
certain to get a duplicate set of vegetables placed 
before him along with the additional meat or entre^ 
that he will call for himself. The result ia the waste 
of about the amount of one person's dinner. 

The dish consists of : 

1 or 2 slices of boiled corned beef. 

1 smaller slice of boiled salt pork. 

1 spoonful of boiled cabbage. 

1 potato. 

1 parsnip. 

1 carrot. 

1 turnip. 

1 onion. 

1 beet. 

Or, pieces of the above vegetables eqaivalent in 
size to the spoonful of cabbage. Place the veget- 
ables in the dish (a 7 or 8 inch flat platter) and the 
meat slices on top. 



1081. Boiled Mutton, Oaper Sauce. 

The leg of mutton is the proper cut to boil. If 
there is sufficient demand for it there should be two 
at once, one cooked rare in about one hour, the oth- 
er well done in one and one-half hours. 

Drop the mutton into water or the soup stock that 
is«lready boiling, and be careful never to put a fork 
into it. The gravy should run from a leg of a mutton 
when cut the same as from roast beef. 

When the boned scrag end of the neck, rolled up 
and tied with twine, or the rolled shoulder is cooked 
for boiled mutton the above rules do not apply, but 
tbese should be boiled three hours to make them ten- 
der. 

For caper sauce, see Nos. 916 and 928, or the 
following. 



1082. Piokle Sauoe, for Mutton and 

Tongue. 

1 pint of olear strained soup stock. 

Flour and water thiekening. 

Butter size of an egg. 

1 pickled cucumber. 

Salt. 

Set the stock or water on to boil, thicken it to the 
consistency of butter sauce. Beat in the butter a 
small piece at a time, and salt to taste. If not good 
yellow butter the yolk of an egg will improve the 
color. Chop the pickled cucumber and mix it 
in. 



1083. Boiled Tongue. 

An OK tongue needs to boll three hours to be ten- 
der. When done, take it up, dip in cold water, and 
peel off the skin. Serve sliced with oaper sauoe or 
s luce piquant. 



THB AMBBICAV COOK. 



295. 



1084. Piquant Sauce. 

< 

Is brown sauoe made pleasantl j sharp and relish- 
ing with Tinegar, a piece of onion, some bruised 
pepperooms, and half a b lyleftf boiled in it. Strain 
it and add a few capers or chopped pickle, making 
it in effect a brown caper sauce. 

1C86. Boiled Ck>rned Tonffue. 



Boil the tongue three hours. Dip it in cold water 
and peel off the skin. Carte it slanting across to 
make long and thin slices and serte like boiled ham 
without sauce. 

Directions for corning tongues at No. 792. 



1086. Boiled Ham. 

See directions at No. 1035. To glaze a ham to 
slice cold, No. 812. 

The butt eod of a ham and shank left oyer wheli 
the reet has been sliced for broiliog will be suffi- 
ciently well done in one hours* boiling. 



10B7. Boiled Oz Heart, with Gravy 

A fair proportion of this kind of meat which usu- 
ally goes slowly or not at all can be disposed of by 
cooking it as follows: 

Boil it not less than three hours in the salt meat 
boiler, or, if not there j convenient, in the stock 
boiler. Carve it In broad slices and serve brown 
gravy with it. One such heart per day will gener- 
ally be consumed if it is cooked tender. It is poor 
policy to warm any over and use it the second day, 
when a fresh one may be had for the asking. 
Wash the inside cavities free from blood before 
cooking. * 



1088. Boiled Turkey, Ouster Sauce. 

Detailed directions for boiling a turkey may be 
found at No. 1046. 
White oyster sauce at No. 862. 
The same sauce is suitable with boiled chicken. 



1080. Boiled Ohioken, with Salt Pork. 



Boiled fowls go a little further than roast, per. 
haps because no part of them is dried, but all cun be 
carved and served advantageously. 

Boil the fowls in the soup stock, salted, but with- 
out any spice flavorings, for a time, according to the 
kind. Chickens may be done in one-half hour, old 
fowls in 2 to 4 hours. They can be tried occasion- 
ally while boiling. 

Parboil about 8 pounds of salt or pickled pork 
and afterwards finish cooking it in the same b iler 
with the chickens — it will need to cook about one 
and one-half hours Serve a smAll slice of the 
pickled pork with each dish of chicken. 



Chicken cooked as above in liquor slightly salted 
does not need a sauce, but if needed for beiter ap^ 
pearance use either butter or cream sauce, with- 
perhaps, a little parsley minced and mixed in. 

lOOO. Boiled Chicken, Egff Sauce. 

Boil chickens and serve with egg sauce No. 986, 
Boiled turkey the same waj. 



1001. Boiled .Ohicken, Oelery Sauco. 



Boil chickens and serve with the white celery 
sauce of the next receipt. Boiled turkey the same 
way. 



1002. White Oelery Sauce. 

Boll the outside stalks of oelery, about 6 or 8 — 
while, tender and good stalks, but such as are lefc 
in the oelery glasses when the heartr. have been 
been picked out — for about 20 minutes. Cut them 
in small pieces. 

Make cream sauce, No. 981, put the piesee of 
celery in and let simmer a short' time to extract the 
flavor. 



1003. Boiled Jowl and Spinach. 

Steep two jowls in warm water and scrub off the 
rank, smoky outside with a brush. Boil for three 
hours in a vessel by themselves. Trim and shave 
along the lips and on the outside fat. Serve sliced 
on top of spinaoh in a dish. See hams and spinach. 
No. 1085. 



1O04. Boiled Pork and Sauer Kraut. 

Rinse off the sauer kraut in cold water. Boll it 
from 2 to 8 hours. Drain, and keep it hot in a sink 
ot the steam chest. 

Boil a piece of pickled pork about one and a half 
or two hours, the latter part of the time in the sauer 
kraut. Serve slices on top of the kraut in the 
dish. 



There are people of other aarionalities who evi. 
deutly think they know more about making sauer 
kraut than Americans do. But then even the doe- 
tors disagree. 

A German has been heard to say of American 
eauer kraut: <'It is too salt. Barrel should have 
two inches of salt laid on bottom, then filled with 
shred cabbage very hard pressed down. Stand a 
week or two, then put in a gallon of vinegar — that*8 
better than all your salt." 

And a Swede answers: 

'*We don't put any vinegar in. Let the cabbage 
stand till it makes its own sourness; always hard. 
(r«^88ed down.' 



f> 



206 



THB AKEBICAN COOK. 



1095. Imitation Sauer Kraut— Made 

as Wanted. 



Shred some white oabbafj^ in the usual way of 
fihaving up for sauer Vraut over night, press it down 
in ajar and cover it with a mixture of Tii\egar and 
water and salt. Wlien to be cooked next morning 
take it out of tlie pickle, wash it, and boil it in wa- 
ter with a capful of Tinegar in it, a little salt and 
piece of pickled pork. Cook two or three hours. 
The same pickle in the jar can be used again. It 
■should be one-third Tinegar. 



1096. Keeping Meat to Make it Tender. 



Our friends, the butchers, have always the an- 
swer ready to the complaint that the meat is tough, 
that we in hotels don't give it a chance to become 
tender for we don't keep it loog enough. They say' 
with good reason too, that the best meat they kill is 
•not tender the day after it is killed; that game, 
even the largest game, is tenderer than butcher's 
meat, partly because such a considerable interval 
•elapses between the killing and the cooking cf it; 
that their beef shipped by rail and vessel improves 
in the time and is just right for eating when it 
reaches its destiaatioo; that in the old countries 
where the study of good eating has been carried to 
the highest pitch the rich bang their meats till they 
are in danger of spoiling,. both for tenderness and 
-enhanced flavor. 

While all this is true it is a matter generally be 
yond the control of the cook. It is easy to see that 
the large butchers who can keep a stock of meat on 
hand have an advantage over the small butchers 
who cinnot though the latter may buy equally as 
good stock; and ea«y to see that if the butcher kills 
regularly every aflerooon and the hotel buyer buys 
regularly at nine o'clock the next morning, aod the 
<}ook has to put the meat to the fire immediately fur 
dioner, that that hotel may go on the year round 
always having tough meat, alibough it may be cut 
from equally as good animals and bought at an 
-equally high price with another hotel that always 
has good meat because it has a good place — cool, 
-dry and dark — to keep it a few days in, and be* 
cause ii has a buyer who is aware that keepiog does 
fnake a difference. 



1097. The Vinegar Reme<?y. 

It ha? been published before, notably in a book 
dated 1857, aod has sioce been revived, the state- 
ment that to rub or steep tough meat in vinegar 
would make it tender. It is mentiond here for the 
purpose of saying with genuine sorrow that the rem- 
edy is no good. It is possible to keep cut beefsteaks 
that would spoil before night a considerable time 
longer by covering them with vinegar, but as they 



are then sour all through the^r last state is not much 
better than the first. HowcTcr, our readers will try 
it for themselves. 



1098. Hotel BroUing. 

The propriety of having a hotel cook book for ho* 
tels especially is apparent in nothing so much as in 
the peculiar conditions of hotel broiling. It seema 
to hsTC been the fashion ever since the art of print, 
ing was discovered and cook books began to be made 
for the cook to broil the meats as he pleased or 
rather as he was told by the inBtruotors to do and 
for the people at table to recelTC what was given 
them gratefully, never questioning,but what the cooks 
in their superior wisdom sent them must be the best. 
But evidently now "the times are out of joint;*' the 
tables are turned; it has got to be so that the people 
at the hotel table will not haTC it that smooth and 
easy way, but they have learned to do the ordering 
and the cooks have to do the obeying, and all our 
teachers' authoraiive instructions have not now the 
weight of a feather. This makes the hotel broiler's 
a very difficult position. He is baffled about by 
every wind of opinion that blows about the dining 
room tables. He must be all mind, yet haTO no 
mind of his own; must understand aad remember 
everything and feel nothing, either ludicrous or of- 
fensive. There are very few really good ' hotel 
broilers. 

Of course it is not merely to broil for this one 
rare, that one medium and another one well don^— 
these simple movements are varied like the move- 
ments in a grand dance, in a large and good hotel, 
and the broiling cook gets dizxy. 

Let us both for direct ^instruction and for the ex* 
hibition of a matter that is very little understood 
suppose a case in a medium sized hotel having, say, 
two hundred guests attended at table by twenty 
waiters. 

Breakfast is a little the most troublesome me,?l 
aod there is always what is known to the hands as 
the first rush, when probably 15 out of the 20 
waiters will come at once, each giving perhaps five 
person's orders for probably five different articles 
each. In preparation for this commencement there 
ate a longrnnge glowing with heat and two bright 
glowing charcoal broilers. At least, as we do not 
love pictures of misery, we will hope there are two 
charcoal burners for so many. We will hope, too, 
that the ch&rooal will glow; that it is not kept where 
it gets srowed upon or rained upon and that it is 
not hi\f dust and dirt, and that the chimney has a 
good draft. 

The pans of cut meats are brought out of the re. 
frigerator at the minute of opening the doors. There 
are two, perhaps three of them, with beef. Teal, 
mutton, lamb, fresh pork and chicken, ham, bacon, 
/lalt poik, hver, tripe, pig's feet, kidneys, venisou 



THB AMBBICAK COOK. 



297 



«Dd fllieed dried beef; salmon steak, salt maekerel 
«nd whitefish, and they are set on the lioo table in 
front of the girdirons. There is a dish of Tarious 
Hsold cooked meits somewhere near at hand. The 
ehort order ooolc has the middle of the table and the 
4niddle of the raoge for cooking eggs and omelets, 
frjiog breaded articles, aod perhaps he has the po- 
tatoes and onions, f^ied mush and tripe in batter, 
and the like. There are, already prepared, a dish 
of grated or minced cheese for cheese omelets, 
minced ham and parsley for omelets of those deacrip- 
•iions, tomatoes and garlic, ooion and minced pep- 
peis tor Spanish omelets and beefsteaks, and a shal 
low pan half full of eggs ready broken stands ready 
with a ladle in it to dip them out for cooking, and 
•another with ready made omelet mixture of eggs with 
a little milk and salt. Shallow saucepans are sim- 
mering on the range for poached eggs, and if there 
•are no steam cooking apparatus, others, at least two, 
are ready for boiling eggs, while a tray of dishes 
ready butter^ are there for eggs shirred. A row 
of omelet and frying pans rest on the bright bar 
tklong the front of the range ready fur fried and 
scrambled. It would lead too far from the broiler 
to note the etews, the special sauces, the boiled 
mushes, two or three kinds; the hot breads and 
«akes, hot milk, coffee, teas and chocolate, and how, 
after all, some persons will send out for the special 

sort of cocoa or broma that is not there. 

At firfet it runs along smooth and straight. Some 

three or four Teal cutlets haTC been breaded and 
tried beforehand and perhaps two each of pork and 
mutton. Some more ready breaded are in the pans 
and will be cooked as ordered after the first rush is 
ea isfied. On the left of the broiler's position there 
is a little side shelf or bracket used for nothing else- 
on which he has a plate, a small pan of melted but. 
ter and a tin bound flat brush. The ordinary or- 
<lers come aod he tanes the steak or chop, lays it on 
the plate and draws the butter brush over it, oiling 
it just sufficiently to present sticking to the girdiron 
but ne^er enough to drip. Then he once more pol- 
ishes the girdiron by rubbing H as hard as possible 
with a coarse cloih, lays the meats on it and then 
dredges them all at once, so as to saye time, with a 
mixture of two-thirds fine salt and one-third blaok 
pepper. These are beefsteaks or chops or cutlets 
either rare or well done as ordered without further 
comment — except that an order comes — "and be 
sure to season it well while ii's cooking," which i^ 
immediately followed by an order for < 'plenty of 
butter grayy but no salt and pepper on it." These 
two orders of course must be kept in view separately 
among all the others on the girdiron, but that is 
nothing but routine. Presently, however, a waiter 
comes, and after crying off an order for four or five, 
or a family, taking an assortment of articles from 
here and there over the whole length and breiidth 
of the kitchen winds up with — <'and 8 stehks, 3 



poached eggs and 2 boiled^mackerels and 1 broiled 

for the Three Old BnUer Maids." 

As the orders, not of this waiter alone but of half 

a doxen before have been dropped the different 

cooks or assistants have picked up each the items 

that fell to their department, and the broiler, with 

his girdirons full of meats ordered to be of several 

different shades when done is supposed to have them 

all in his head in regular rontine and still listening 

ready to store his mind with more, but the order of 

the three old butter maids proves to be a disturbing 

element. 
The appellation given to the three distinguished 

guests has no suggestion of humor in it for these 
workers; it is not even disrespectful; it is merely an 
abbreviation or sign understood between the waiter 
and the broiling and firyingcookeand bynooneelscr 
adopted through necessity where there is a difficulty 
in even getting heard in regular turn. Really it 
should have been *'the three butter old maids," but 
the word butter was out of rythm and the waiter was 
con>tcious of it and placed it the other way. The 
parties alluded to are not even old maids at all, but 
a mother and her two young daughters, but the ne- 
cessity of having a sign for them overrode all tri« 
fling facts like that. The simple explanation is that 
when they arrived they impressed it upon the wait, 
er, who took a leisure minute to impress it in turn* 
upon the cook, that butter was their particular ab. 
horrence, that their physician had forbidden them 
to eat butter, that they could not touch any article 
that had been prepared with it, or had any in its 
compoeition, and they could not stay in any hotel 
twelve hours unless they were guaranteed perfect 
exemption from butter. Consequently the late or- 
der means that the steaks are not to be touched wih 
the butter brush, nor yet the broiled mackerel, thai 
the boiled mackerel must not have the usual 
tablespoonful .poured over it in the dish, and al- 
though the poached eggs must be served upon toast 
the toast must be unbutttered, and all this and much 
more is conveyed in the four words. It add i to the 
disturbance of the routine when an ins'ant after an- 
other waiter in loud and significant tones calls for 
<*a full order of breakfast bacon for the Twice- 
turned-over and-done-to-a-crisp Old Man," because 
the bacon creating flime and smoke will perhaps 
give a taste that the butter maids will swear (figura- 
tively) is butter and raise a rumpus about, it, and 
the trouble increases when the next wants *<pork 
chops in crumbs and butter for the family-with.no- 
eggs," the latter meaning that these have as thor- 
ough an aversion to everything containing eggs as 
the others for butter, and their breaded and broiled 
cutlets must be specially prepared for them either 
with batter and crumbs, or crumbs pressed on plain 
aod buttered on them while broiling. The family- 
with.no.egg will send out and a^^k whether there is 
eggs in the soup and the ice cream and the entreea 



298 



THE AMB&ICAK COOK. 



before ihej order, and hare special paddings aad 
Oikes made fur them. But that is neither here nor 
there. Neither, perbape, is the fish that ought to 
be when the order oomes for **a broiled big troui for 
The Geaeral^plit^own-the-baok-and.baoon.in8ide/' 
whiob, of oourse, is an unexpected order from a 
great man who pays extra, and the broiler must try 
to procure that trout ereo if he has his two gridirons 
full (f meats at the time. 

While, therefore, we wish the broiling cook well 
and hope he will survive where it is a case, of the 
suryiral of the fittest, it is s«d to have to saj that 
very little help can be offered, seeing that no oast 
iron rules can ever be adapted to the oircumstan- 
ees. 

It is wrong and very foolish for him to lose his 
temper and his patience and get to quarreling with 
the waiters and losing (rack of things and mixing 
orders, even if the stealL that he has sent in cut thin 
and dried like a shoe sole is sent .back to him for 
««moTe fire," because the person has succeeded by 
hard pressuxe in forcing out one drop of gravy and 
declares it not done; or the steak bsrely warmed is 
returned as too well done by another, who si^hs as 
he declares that he has searched half the country 
over for a hotel where he could get a steak cooked 
rare. The broiling cook should remain imperturbable. 
The people in the dining room are not fighting him 
but are having their own duels across the table. The 
well done party opposite has contrived to show in- 
tense disgust at this man's raw beefsteak, and he, 
perhaps, for pure deviltry, has sent out for one red- 
der yet. 

Seriously, the most of the difficulties that arise 
and lead to the Arequent changes of cooks and the 
host of small inconveniences resulting, and get for 
the cooks the stigma of being "slwayson the wing," 
and worse things, begin over the meat broiled, but 
might be prevented, and in well governed hotels are 
prevented, by some quiet person in authority keep- 
ing watch for one hour and bringing up a little help 
when the skirmish grows serious — to mince the 
cheese for an omelet, that was forgotten, to leplenish 
the meat pans, to prepare the unexpected trout 
order, possibly, in extreme cases, even to give the 
half roasted cook a spell long enough to wipe the 
perspiration from his face and get a drink — of wa- 
ter, of course. 



1099. Broilinff Beefsteak. 

The exceptions and provisos being noted above 
it rmains to be said that it is not quite option- 
al whether in regular course the steaks and 
chops should be previously brushed over with 
butter or not, for when the meat ia poor and 
lean that is the only way there is to prevent it from 
sticking to the bars and being torn in turning and 



causing delay. Most people like the butter season^ 
ing, the meats go in looking the better fur it, autfr 
most hotel keepers make it a point to provide good, 
sweet butter for that purpose. Where such is not the- 
case the fat from fried breakfast baon is the be^ 
substitute — to broil with, not to pour on the steaka 
when done — and failing that, fresh roast meat drip* 
ings can be used. Where it is desired to broil the 
meals absolutely plain rub the bars of the gridiron 
with a ham rind and be careful not to let the bara 
get too hot. 

When broiling fat mutton and pork chops and the 
flames are troublesome and mike the rae<it throw 
coarse salt on the charooal, it will generally extin- 
guish them, and another expedient is to raise, 
the gridiron to the highest position, shut down the 
front and so create such a draft that the flames will be 
carried horixontally towards the chimney without, 
he meat above being touched by them. 



IIOO. Beefsteak with Natural Gravy. 

Beefjteaks and other meats carefully broiled with, 
the fork never thrust into them except in the fat 
edge or a loose corner yield a gravy of their own oa 
he dish after a few minutes. In addition to this a 
few rough and coarss slices cut thick can be broiled, 
half done and kept in a pan or dish, and if pierced 
with a fork several times will yield perhaps a cupful 
of gravy for special orders. Invalids often beg for 
this sort of sauce where it seems to be thought im.. 
possible to furnish it. 



UOl. "Old-Fashioned" Broiled Beef- 
steak and Gravy. 

Probably the term is a misnomer for the sime 
sort of steak must still be ia fashion in some places, 
but that is the way we hear it spoken of. Or^ 
ders and polite requests from people who have made 
themselves at home in the hotel sometimes reach the- 
kitchen that are quite unintelligible. When it ia 
for a fried stead with old fashioned gravy, and the 
brown sauce or stew gravy sent the Ji does not fill 
the bill, we begin to think they mean this following; 
but it is not in the regular routine, and they will 
hardly succeed in obtaining iU 

You take a whole sirloin steak, pretty nearly as 
long as your arm and proportionately broad, notch 
the rough edges to prevent curling, and make a show 
of beatiog it out a little on the kitchen table. Put a 
shovelful of charcoal in the ash-pan oflhe steamboat 
range, or the front of the country hotel stove, draw 
some hot coals on that, and when it is all aglow, put 
on your four-legged gridiron and the steak and pan. 
inverted over it, and let it cook medium well done. 

Put one-half pound of butter into a pan and 
about a tablespoonful of black pepper, and as much 
salt, and mix them together ; take the steak up int% 



THB AMEBICAK COOK. 



299 



the p«ii and press it into the barter, and press oat 
«ll its jaioes, then pour in a cap of hot water, set 
the pan orer the ooals, and when it begins to sim- 
mer the meat graTj and pepper will ha^e thickened 
the water, and there is joar old-faehiooed steak. 
The sequel is, somebody will carve it into pieces 
aboot the sise of two fingers, and the people will 
pass up their plates and get their spoonful of the 

The next thing to br iling fir that kind of beef- 
steak is frying over the fire, but a liitle piece in a 
pan does not come out na*uraI*Iooking, but burns 
around the edges — it must be a full pan or notb. 
iog. 



II02. Broiled Porterhouse Steak. 

An expedient ad-^pted in some restaurants for 
getting a large and thick beefsteak done in a reas- 
OQsble lime, and to preserye its flat shape is to hare 
two fire bricks, well polished, on the gridiron hot, 
«nd place one or both on the steak while broiling 
the first side. After turning over the brick must 
be set aside to allow the gravy to collect on the top 
of the steak. 

Time for broiling eiz to ten minutes. Serve with 
sime sort of potatoes arotod and quartered lemon 
on top. 



II03. French Beefsteak. 



A tenderloin or fillet steak broiled, and fried po- 
tato balls or other f«ncy cut potatoes around it in the 
dish with butter and quartered lemon. 



II04. BeeflBteak Maitre d'HoteL 

Broil a beefsteak and place it on a hot dish, chop 
up a lump of butter in a small frying pan over the 
fire, when it is melted throw in a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, then poor it over the steak. Out a 
lemon in four. Squeexe the luioe of two pieces over 
the steak, and place the other two quarters in the 
dish ae a garnish. 

1105. Beefsteak, Sauce Plquante. 

Broil a beefsteak fairly well done and pour over 
it the following sauce : 

J^ut into a small 8aacep%n one-half cupful of 
brown sauce, a ba^tiog-Bp>on of stock to thin ii 
down, one half a bay leaf, a level teaspoonful of 
brui8*d pepp'*r-corns and a basting^poon of good 
vinegar or caper vinegan Let is boil rapidly while 
the s eak is cooking, then strain it and throw in a 
teaspoonful of capen. 

1106. Beefsteak with Ohampifirnons. 

Broil a beeftteak and pour around and over it a 
quarter can or more of Frecoh mushrooms prepared 
as follows: 



Put the mushrooms drained dry into a small trv- 
ing pas with a little butter, shake about on tlie 
range until they begin to brown. Draw the mush- 
rooms to one side, and work into the hot bu ter * 
small tablespoonful of flour. Pour in half mush- 
room liquor and half water, stir smooth, season 
with salt and pepper and a sqneeie of lemon, boil 
up and dish. 



1107. Bnfflish Bump Steak with Mush- 
rooms. 

Broil a slice from [the *'silver side" or tender 
side of the round of beef, cut rather thick, and a 
little underdone, and serve it with broiled, baked» 
or fried fresh mushrooms, as follows : 



1108. Fresh Mushrooms. 

For an accompaniment to broiled meat the cinned 
button mushrooms bear no comparison in richness 
with the large, wide-open, fresh mushrooms from 
the fields. At leas'^fifky varieties of mushrooms are 
eaten in European countries, and there are kinde 
that are poisonous. We know but one kind and 
take no risks on the others. The true mushroom U 
of a delicate pink or flesh color on the under side 
when it first opens, and darkens to chocolate color 
and then black, according to the time it contini'.ea 
growing. 

When such can be obtained cut olF most of the 
stem, peel the top of the mushroom, shake about in 
cold water to free it | from grit or sand, and fry 
(saute) enough of them together io a little butter in 
a frying pan to touch and cover the bottom while 
cooking. They shrink very much, but give out a. 
gravy of the richest description, which should not 
be allowed to dry up in the pan. Season with pep' 
per and salt. When the mushrooms are done — ii» 
six or eight minutes — place them on top of the beef- 
steak and pour the gravy and butter over likewise 

Another way, most suitable when the mushrooms 
are to form a dish alone, is to place them top down- 
wards in a baking pan, dredge with salt and pep- 
per, put a small piece of butter in each, bake 
done and serve without turning over. 



1100. Spanish Beeflsteak. 

Broil a beefsteak fairly well done, and serve it 
laid on top of the fallowing sauce in a hot 
dish : Put into a frying-pan an ounce of but- 
ter, and while it is gradually melting cut up a clove 
of (rarlic and a small onion, and fry them slightly^ 
yellow; put in either four peeled tomatoes or two 
b iiitiog-spooDfuls from a pan, and one-half pod of 
red pepper minced, and a little salt. Let stew down 
nearly dry, and place in the dish neatly with a 
spoon. 



300 



THE AUBBICAK COOK. 



1110 Beefeteak with Tomatoes. 

Mash a faw peeled tomatoes — or use some from 
it can — in a sancepan over the fire. Season with 
flutter, pepper and salt, and let stew down thiok 
without burning. Dish around the steak. 



nil. Devilled Beeflsteak. 

Broiled beefsteak with a sauce made of half 
brown sauoe and half Worcestershire or Halford 
«auoe mixed together and made hot. 



1112. Beefsteak with Onions. 

'Shaye two onions thin as possible into a frying- 
pan, put in a little lard and butter, turn a plate up- 
«ide dQwn upon them and fry them done in five min- 
utes. Take off the plate and let them begin to brown. 
Drain from grease in one side of the pan, then dish 
Ahem on top of the steak in a hot dish. 



1113. Beeflsteak Milanaise. 

m 
m 

Boil four sticks of macaroni broken up in salted 
water for twenty minutes. Drain out, shake it up 
with a spoonful of butter and a spoonlfUl of tomato 
flauce; turn it into a hot dish and place the broiled 
beefsteak on top. 



1114. Beefsteak with Oysters. 



Broil a beefsteak and serT'e it with brown oyster 
flsuce (Nos. 853 and 854.) 

1115. Hamburffh Steak. 



Beef chopped into sausage meat — one-fourth fat 
or suet — and seasoned with onion and a little gsr- 
lie, pepper and salt. 

Chop the beef or put it through a sausage cutler. 
With a four ounce pat of it mix one-halfclove of gar- 
lic and a teaspoonful of minced onion« both minced 
fine, and one*haIf teaspoon of mixed pepper and 
ealt. Flatten it out to a cake in a frying-pan, quite 
thin, fry on both sides, dish with its oWn gravy 
poured over and Lyonaise potatoes around. 

Numbers of people who like Hamburgh isteak 
either cannot or dare not eat the garlic and onions, 
to such cases these seasonings can be omitted, and 
<iuly salt and pepper used. Hamburgh steak should 
be made of tender meat, but the ill*shaped and 
email pieces left when cutting the loin answer for it. 
The attempt to use really tough beef in this way 
defeats iaself, for the steaks are not good, and are 
then no more called for. 



1X16. Lyonaise Potatoes. 

Cold boiled potatoes sliced into a frying-pan with 
liti'e drippings, and browned more or less, as at 



No. 878, and called in the restaurants saute orDuM 
fried potatoes, ate also most frequently served in 
public places as L>onaise, because of the very gen* 
eral objection that exists to eating fried onions. 
That is to say the onions are left ont of Lyonaise for 
accommodation, just as they axe out of Hamburgn 
steak when so ordered. 

To make Lyonaise potatoes mince an onion — about 
a tablespoonful — into a frying-pan, put in as much 
drippings, and fry the onion a light color, then pot 
in cooked potatoes out thick, pepper and salt. Let 
them slowly brown on the bottom at the side of the 
range, then shake the pan so as to throw the brown 
side on top, and continue cooking until they are 
evenly colored. 

See also minoed potatoes, No.^ 868. Among the 
various contrary orders that reach the hotel and 
restaurant cook, some wish them that way. Minced 
onions can be cooked and mixed with the minced 
potatoes. 



1117' Broiled Mutton Ohops. 

Single ohops broil about four or five minutes, and 
serve with a small spoonful of melted fresh butter 
and sprigs of parsley i«f|^he dish. They are called 
for and served in all the same ways as beefisteak. 



1118. A Dish of Mutton Ohops. 

Broil the required number, and oul aa many 
pieces of thin buttered toast to the same shape. 
Set the chops on end leaning in the dish, and the 
pieces of toast placed alternately between them. 
Garnish with parsley and lemon. 



1119 Mutton Ohops with Tomato Sauoe. 



Broiled mutton chops and pour around them to- 
mato sauce made as follows : 



II20. Tomato Sauce. 

Boi) a few tomatoes, or part of a can, mash with 
the back of a spoon, and throw in three or 
four cloves, and a teaspoon of minced onion. 
Thicken with a teaspoonfUI of 4our, and twice as 
much butter browned together in a frying-pan, then 
rub the sauce through a strainer, or if in haste, 
through a small colander. Season with salt and 
pepper. 



1121. Lamb Ohops with Green PeGbS. 

Broil lamb chops three or four minutes, place two 
or three or more, leaning and overlapping, in a dish 
and pour green peas made hot, either in butter or 
in cream sauce, around them. 



THB AUBBICAK COOK. 



301 



1122. Broiled Pork Ohops with Milk 

Gravy. 

Fry the chops first, then laj (hem on the grid- 
iron, «8 thej are hard to cook, while jou pour half 
a cap of milk in the pan, pepper and salt, and 
thicken with hrowned flour-and -butter, or with 
plain thickening. Strain the sauce into the dish 
and lay the chop in it. 



1123. Broiled Slices of Salt Pork. 

l^ip the slices in flour before broiling; they color 
better and do not drip so much fat. 



1124. Broiled Ham and BggB. 



Broil broad thin slices of ham over clear coals, 
nicely colored on both sides in four minutes. Place 
the ham a little towards one end in a roomy dish 
and the fried eggs partly resting on the ham and 
partly in the dish. 



1125. Broiled Liver and Bacon. 



Calfs liTer is the best. The liyer should be sliced 
broad but thin. Brush orer the slice with bacon 
&t, pepper and salt it and broil fiye minutes. Serve 
with a strip of bacon on top. 



1126. . Broiled Breakfast Bacon. 

The endeavor should be made as far as possible 
to avoid broiling bacon whenever frying or baking 
will serve the purpose as well. It is not only ex- 
ceedingly wasteful, as most affect it done to a orisp, 
% mere crackling, but it destroys the broiling fjre, 
flares and smokes more than any other article. If 
fried carefully most of it will be saved in the form 
of fat, which is useful in sauteeing potatoes and 
otherwise. 



1127. Broiled Liver, Plain. 

Dip the slices of liver in flour and broil them. 
When about done spread a teaspoonful of soft butter 
on each side, let it continue broiling until the butter 
is in a froth, then serve it hot. 



1128. Broiled Honeycomb Tripe. 

Cook precisely as directed above for liver, with 
«are not to have any surplus flour filling the cavi- 
ties. Serve the honeycomb side up and garnish 
with parsley and a cut of lemon. 



1120. Broiled Kidneys. 

Sheep's kidneys are the best, calfs are next best, 
Slice them for broiling through the suet, before 
"taking them out, then trim off the surrounding fat, 



except a small rim all around. Put them in the 
hinged wire toaster, pepper, salt and butter them 
and broil a little longer time than beefsteaks, or 
until fairly cooked through. Serve with a little 
butter and whatever of their oirn gravy may have 
collected on top. 

Kidneys are good at two periods in cooking: when 
they are barely done through, and again after they 
have been stewed two or three hours. In the in- 
termediate time they are hard and undesirable. 



II30. Economy of Broiled Meats. 

Chops, steaks, etc., that are cooked through mis- 
take of orders or are sent back as too well done and 
for other reasons, should be put into a small pan of 
well-seasoned gravy, like the '*old- fashioned'* beef- 
steak at No. 1101, and so kept fresh and savory. 
They will always be in demand for some persons. 



JI3L Easy Broiling of Fish. 

Fresh fish now. transported for long distances, 
often, after frost, comes out too soft to be easily 
broiled. Dip the pieces or sides cf such in flour, 
and butter while broiling, the same as liver and 
tripe, and they will not adhere to the* gridiron nor 
break up. 

Salt mackerel that has not had time to get dry and 
would not brown otherwise can be well broiled in 
the same way. 



II32. Broiled Chickens. 

Split down the back to draw them, wash, and 
wipe dry. Flatten the chickens down with a blow 
of the cleaver. Brush over with butter and broil 
about ten minutes. If large, place the hot brick on 
top, mentioned at No. 1102. 

Make some butter gravy as at 1101, in a pan, and 
press the chickens down in it as cooked until 
enough have been broiled for the hotel breakfast. 
Restaurant orders have various accessories such as 
peas and tomatoes to go with broiled chicken. 

II33. Broiled Quail on Toast. 



Everything, so to speak, is in the looks. It should 
not lie on the toast humped up and with the limbs 
pointing many different ways, but should lie flat, 
round and compact. This is accomplished by flat- 
tening the quail, after opening, and cleaning it 
sufficiently, with a few pats of the cleaver to depress 
the breast bone and loosen the joints, not necessar- 
ily to mash the meat or make splinters in it. Split 
the quail down the back to open it, like a young 
chicken, rinse off in cold water and wipe it dry 
and brush over with butter. Broil it about eight 
minutes, perhaps with the hot brick on top if in 
haste. Have ready a little melted butter, pepper 



SG2 



TEX AJIBRICAK COOK. 



and salt in a pan, press the quail down into it, dish 
on toast and garnish if required. 

To make a neat appearance, the toast should be 
eut to shape. Cut a square slice of toast diagonally 
across, making two triangles, and place the broad 
ends together in the dish. 



1134. Broiled Snipe and Plover. 



Not different from quail except in the time requir- 
ed for cooking, which is less than for quail, and the 
different sorts of potatoes, mushrooms, sauces, etc., 
that are required with restaurant orders. 



1136. Broiled Toun^r Rabbit. 



Babbits broiled are much neater in appearance 
and more eyenlj cooked if they can be had before 
they are dressed, and split down the back with a 
strong knife and so laid open. Wash and wipe dry, 
flatten them with the cleaver.brush over with bacon 
fat or butter, and broil about 16 minutes with the 
two hot fire bricks on top. Dip in butter grayy or 
pour a little oter them. Broiled salt perk or bacon 
lud on top for restaurant orders and potatoes 
arouna in the. dish. 



1136. Broiled SquIrreL 



The same as rabbit but taking less time to cook* 



1137. Broiled Teal Duok. 



Prepare for broiling like chicken and quail, cook 
with Ihe inside downwards first and the hot brick 
on top, then turn them oTer, lay the brick aside 
and baste with a little butter. They take about 12 
or 16 minutes to cook. Serre with butter gravy 
and lemon, or currant jelly, or orange sauce. 

For hotel breakfasts they are best done in a pan 
on the top shelf in the range. 



1130. Poaohed Bgfirs. 



1138. Boiled Eggs. 



The best fiirnished hotel kitchens hare a kettle 
much like a long fish kettle in appearance, and a 
number of tin baskets, each with its handle, that 
fit in side by side. The kettle is full of boiling 
water, and the baskets with different orders of eggs 
can be withdrawn without disturbing the others. 
One hand is detailed to attend to the egg boiling, 
and he has sand glasses to time them by, or a clock 
or both. At ordinary letels two or three minutes 
for soft-boiled and four or fiye for hard-boiled is the 
rule, but at great altitudes in the Bocky Mountains 
as much as eight minutes is the least time for hard- 
boiled eggs. The low point at which water boils is 
ihe reason for the difference. 



Also called dropped eggs. 

It is no trouble to poach eggs handsomely if tw* 
or thr^ rules are obseryed. 

Have a roomy yessel with plenty of water, the 
frying-pan shape is good, but it is not deep enough. 
HaTe a little salt in the water. Never let the water 
boil fiiriously after the eggs are in, as that breaka 
them; keep it gently simmering at the sides. 

The eggs break and are wasted because when 
first dropped they go heanly to the hot bottom and 
there stick, to preyent which set the water in motion 
by stirring it around with a spoon. The eggs 
dropped in are carried around a moment and the 
white cooks sufficiently to preyent adhesion. 

Break the eggs carefully into little dishes and 
drop into the water one at a time. Take them out 
with a perforated ladle. 

Serye either well drained in a small deep dish 
and a speck of butter on top or else laid neatly on. 
a trimmed slice of buttered toast. 



1140. Fried Efffirs. 



These are the most called-for of any form in which 
eggs are cooked and there is the widest possible 
difference between the work of a skillful and un- 
skillful cook in this particular. The Med eggs that 
are a disgrace to any table are broken as to the 
yolks before they go in the pan, then they have 
black grease simmering up all around the edges and 
running oyer their surface, they are cooked nearly 
as hard as leather, they stick to the pan and can- 
not be turned over and finally when they are forci- 
bly pushed into a dish the same smoky, black grease 
flows around them like gravy. That it should hap- 
pen so sometimes is nothing to be remarked, but 
these lines are prompted by amazement that some 
will go on frying eggs that way always and habi- 
tually and do not seem to know that anything is^ 
wrong. 

To try eggs cleanly and handsomely, keep the 
small frying pins always rubbed clean, if not 
bright, and never set them empty upon the range 
but keep them warm on the bar along the front 
of it or on a hot shelf or a row of bricks at the 
back. 

Put into the pan not more than a tablespoonful 
of clear melted lard. Break the eggs into small 
dishes if for a few people, two in a dish; for a large 
number break several dozens into a pail and take 
out by twos with a ladle. Put them into the warm 
pan and then set on the range and they will not 
stick or break in the pan. Shake them only after 
the yolks have begun to set. 

Fried eggs are called for "straight up and soft" — 
which means only done on the under side; cooked 
hard, which sometimes requires theapan to be held 



THB AMBBICAN COOK. 



303 



inside the oven; half turned oyer, which is doubled 
in half upon itself ; and turned oTer, which can be 
done with an egg-slice. 

1141. Sorambled BfirgTB. 

Not to be beaten up like an omelet but dropped 
into the frying-pan, sprinkled with pepper and salt 
and stirred around about a dozen times with a fork 
or spoon while cooking. Take out before they cook 
-quite dry and hard; heap in the middle of a flat 
•dish. 



1142. Buttered BggB. 

Put two eggs, two tablespoonfbls of melted butter 
and a pinch of salt into a small saucepan or tin cup, 
set it in the boiling water on the range and rapidly 
beat it until cooked thick enough, either to senre on 
toast or like scrambled eggs in a dish. 

1143. Shirred Bgge. 



Some people keep little yellow-ware dishes for 
ibis purpose, or other dishes that cannot be dam- 
aged by baking. Spread with a teaspoon a slight 
coating of soft butter over the inside of the dish, 
drop in two eggs, not beaten, and set them inside 
the oven, or, perhaps, on the top of the range on 
one side. Try by shaking, and take them out when 
the whites are quite cooked. Send in in the same 
dish set in a flat one. 



1144. Plain Omelet. 

Two eggs and one tablespoonful of milk. Add a 
pinch of salt, beat in a bowl enough to thoroughly 
mix but not make it too light, »8 if the omelet rises 
li<e a souffle it will go down again, so much the 
worse. 

Pour it into a small frying pan, or omelet pan, in 
which is one tablespoonful of the clear part of melted 
butter, and fry like fried eggs. But when partly 
set run a knife point around to loosen it and begin 
and shake the omelet oyer to (he further side of the 
pan until the thin further edge forced upward falls 
back into the omelet. When the under side has a 
good color, and the middle is nearly set, roll the 
» brown side uppermost, with a knife to help, and 
slide the omelet on to a hot dish. Serye immedi- 
ately while it is light and soft. 



II45. Omelet with Parsley. 

Mix a tablespoonful of minced parsley with the 
omelet mixture while beating it up. Make as di- 
rected in the preceding article. 

1146. Omelet with Onions and Parsley 
Mince two tablespoonfuls of onion and fry it in 



a little lard in a Arying-pan with a plate inverted 
upon it. In five minutes take up the minced onion 
without grease and add it to ihe omelet mixture 
made ready with parsley in it; stir up and fry aa 
directed for plain omelet. 



1147. Omelet with Hcun. 



Have ready on the table some grated or minced 
lean ham in a dish. Pour a plain omelet of two 
eggs into the frying-pan and strew over the surface 
about a tablespoonful of the grated ham. 



1148. Omelet with Cheese. 



Make in the same manner as ham omelet, with 
grated cheese instead of ham. 



1140. Omelet with Elidneys. 

Have ready a spoonful of kidneys in sauce, the 
same as for patties or minced kidneys. When the 
omelet has been shaken to the farther side of the 
pan and is nearly done place the spoonful of kid- 
neys lengthwise in the holloa middle and roll the 
omelet over so as to inclose it. 



1160. Omelet with Ohioken Livers. 



By the same method as with kidneys, using 
poultry liyers that haye been stewed, and cut up 
into a rich sauce. 



II61. Oyster Omelet. 



For omelet with oysters see No. 838. For another 
way cut the oysters in pieces in a brown butter 
sauce as follows: 

Put a large half cupful of oysters into a frying* 
pan with their liquor, and salt and pepper, and 
keep them in motion by shaking oyer the fire until 
they are soft-cooked. Take up with a skimmer and 
cut them in pieces. 

Stir a heaping teaspoonful of sifted flour and 
twice the measure of butter together m a yery small 
saucepan oyer the fire until light brown, add halt 
a cupful of milk and the cooked oyster liquor, if 
any, and when it has boiled up put in the cut 
oysters. Squeeze in the j nice of a quarter of lemon. 
Make an omelet in the usual way and pour the 
oysters in sauce oyer it. 



II62. Spanish Omelet. 

Stew tomatoes down nearly dry with garli^ 
onions and minced pepper, as detailed for Spanish 
beefsteak, No. 1109, place the preparation in the 
hollow middle of the omelet and roll the edge oyer 
to inclose it. 



ao4 



THS AKESICAK COOK. 



II63. Omelet with Tomatoes. 



Stew tomatoes down nearly dry, season with 
butter, pepper and salt. Inclose a spoonful in the 
middle of an omelet according to the preceding ex- 
amples. 



II54. Bmn Omelet—Por Three or Pour. 



6 eggs. 

A third as much milk. 

i cupful of rum. 

Powdered sugar. 

Put the eggs and milk and a teispoonful of 
powdered sugar in a bowl togelher.and beat enough 
lo mix but not to make the omelet too light. Set 
the rum where it will get warm. Put a tableRpoon- 
ful of the clear oil of melted butter in the large 
frying-pan, and pour in the omelet before the pan 
gets hot enough to make it stick on the bottom. An 
omelet should not be cooked through and the brown 
outside rolled in, but should be shaken and shaped 
in the further side of the pan. as soon as the edge 
is cooked enough to fall oyer from the edge into the 
middle shaken further over, so that the omelet is 
net a cake but a soft cooked mass with thick middle 
and pointed ends. A broad bladed knife is useful 
to help shape it. 

Make an iron wire red hot in (he fire. 

When the omelet is done slip it on to a hot dish, 
dredge (he top with powdered sugar, mark it with 
bars across with the hot wire laid a moment on the 
sugared top. Pour the rum around and set it on 
fire and send it in. 

The sugaring and marking generally causes too 
much delay for individual omelets in large numbers, 
and has to be omitted in such cases. 



II55. Sweet Omelet with Jelly. 



For individual omelets break for each dish two 
eggs and put into the bowl with them about two 
tablespoonfuls of cream. Beat to mix, but not make 
it too light. Put a tablespoonful of the clear part 
of melted butter into the frying pan, pour in the 



omelet without waiting for the butter to get hot and 
discolored, let cook gradually ,shakiDg it frequently 
to the further side of the pan until the thin edge, 
forced upward, falls over into the middle. When- 
it is nicely browned ai\d the upper side just set, 
put currant jelly, or other fruit jelly, in a long line- 
in the middle that is made hollow for the purpose 
in the side of the pan. Roll over so as to shut in 
the jelly, slide it smooth side up on to a hot dish. 
Dredge powdered sugar on top and mark it with 
crossbars by touching the sugar with a hot wire. 



II66.- Omelet Soufflee. 

It wants slow cooking like a meringue; not too 
much heat. After it has gone down it will be seen 
tbAt the side that was cooked the most went dowa 
the flattest. 

2 eggs. 

1 small tablespoonful powdered sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of water. 

Extract Tanilla, a few drops. 

Put the yolks, sugar and flavor in one bowl, the- 
whiles in a larger one. Mix the yolks around, put 
in a few drops of water and beat till thick and 
foamy. Whip the whites firm enough to bear up an 
egg. Stir the yolks into them without more beat- 
ing. Put a spoonful of clear melted butter into an 
omelet pan and when warm put the omelet in, 
smooth over the top and then if convenient cook it 
in the bottom of a slack oven. If on top of the 
range let it be at one side and hold a red hot shovel 
over the top. Sift powdered sugar over it before, 
from the fire. Send it in on a dish almost as hot as 
the pan it leaves. 



Omelet Frying Pans. 

It is difficult if no» impossible to fry eggs in a 
first-class manner, or to make individual omelets 
without the proper small frying pans, which are 
smallest size made, being no larger than a saucer in 
diameter, and scarcely any deeper. Frying pans 
that are too large for two eggs invariably blacken, 
and burn the eggs at the edges. 



Omelette a l*l!Bpfiszio]e. 

SPANISH OMELET, ANOTHER WAY, 

Stew together in a shallow saucepan two or 
three large spoonfuls of tomatoes from a can, 
a few chopped mushrooms and some chopped 
ham, season with salt and pepper and a clove 
of garlic bruised. Make an omelet with three 
eggs and a spoonful of milk in the usual way, 
place the thick part of the foregoing prepara- 
tion in the middle, roll up the omelet, slide it 
onto a hot di and pour the remainder of the 
sauce around 



Steamed Scrambled Eggs. 

This is the hotel cook's name for what used 
to be called buttered eggs. It is a way practiced 
where a large number of people have to be 
served within a few minutes. Break a dozen 
or several dozens of eggs into a saucepan, put 
in some butter and salt, set it in another sauce- 
pan of boiling water and stirabout occasionally 
until the mass is soft cooked. Eggs in large 
quantities cannot be scrambled without set.ing^ 
in hot water or steam, as they will burn over 
the fire very rapidly. 



THE AMEBICAK COOK. 



305 



OK THE ART OF CATERIH6. 



First Prinoiples. 



It is the inteDtion in these articles not to lay 
down any new laws upon so difficult a subject but 
to state the principal points made by the bes: au- 
thoritieSythe several questions of how many courses, 
how many dishes, how many wines and when to 
serve them admitting ofendles8discussion,for while 
there are certain established forms sanctioned by 
Ions usage and therefore safe for the inexperienced 
to adopt, some people grow restive under a set rule 
and ioquire ho^ far they may deviate without in- 
curring dissentient criticism. Taking the wine 
question, the established custom, if the term may 
be used, is to begin the courses of a dinner with 
sherry or Madeira, or both, and end with cham* 
pagne; the first, apparently, because the custom of 
taking Madeira after soup was introduced into 
France by Prince Talleyrand, and thus entered into 
the fashionable forms which have never been wholly 
controverted; the other only because a sweet wine 
has been conceded to be proper for the finish, and 
champagne has seemed the most available as well 
as the greatest favorite. But all champagne is not 
sweet. Under modern dinner customs another wine 
may be required before the Madeira, and possibly 
another draught after the champagne. One author- 
ity speaks of a banquet with thirty kinds of wine, 
*'Arom Burgundy to Tokay," and imagines a dinner 
so prolonged by the pleasures of eating and of con- 
Tersation that there would be no fixed data for find- 
ing what time might elapse between '*the first glass 
of Madeira and the last tumbler of punch," and still 
speaks of an ideal humble, but most enjoyable din- 
ner with a half bottle of Madeira for two; another 
with some wine of the classical '*Manlius vintage," 
and, again, a dinner with half-a-doxen friends re- 
galed on a leg of mutton and a kidney washed down 
with <*8ome Orleans and excellent Medoc;" the 
same as saying that it matters little what the kind 
of wine may be when there is but one or even two, 
farther than that the light wine should be served 
first. 

For artistic, even scientific, dining is achieved 
through the observance bf rules based on certain 
principles of which they who dine have not generally 
the first control, nor the direct opportunity of car- 
rying out; they depend upon the executive officer 
who serves the meal. And the object in View is not 
the mere satisfaction of a keen appetite, although 
an appetite is the first requisite to enjoyment, but 
through that to gratify the finest sense of taste, to 
lead on from the commoner to the better,with small 
morsels of each dish, by courses, at each change to 
present new combinations of different viands and 
Tarled flavors; not to satiate with the first dish nor 
the first wine, but to lead on and prolonir. . That 



was the Roman idea of luxurious living and one of 
the most famous cooks of history is commemmorated 
as having become so skillful in serving courses that 
were each lighter, finer, more etherial than that 
which went before that the meals were never ended 
but a new appetite for substantials was experienced 
before the lost flavored trifle was removed. Sucb 
have been the patterns for modern epicurism for 
those who seek the same exalted degree of gratifi- 
caiion for the sense of taste as some do for the other 
senses. In the ancient models of conviviality aU 
the senses were gratified at once, with music, witb 
beautiful objects, with rare perfumes and divans of 
8wan*s down and velvet, but the sense of taste gave 
the occasion and was master of the ceremonies, for 
the banquet was the motive of all. In the endeavor 
to bring the art of catering for the appetite within 
the bounds of such exact rules as all cultivated arts 
are subject to, certain principles are laid down,sucb 
as, "In eating, the order is from the more substan- 
tial to the lighter. In drinking, the order is from 
the milder to that which is stronger and of finer 
flavor. 



How To Drink Wine. 



The following study shows how finely the sensa* 
tions of taste have been analyzed in this pursuit. 

**In drinking wine there is a pleasant but still 
imperfect sensation so long as it is in the mouthy 
it is only when swallowed that we can really taste 
and appreciate the special flavor and boquet of each 
variety, and a little time must elapse before the 
connoisseur can say, 'It is good,' 'middling,' or <bad;' 
'By Jove! 'tis genuine Chambertin,' or, 'Confound 
it I it is only Surene I* 

"In conformity with these prinoiples, and result- 
ing from a well-understood experience, is that habit 
which all true connoisseurs have of sipping theiv> 
wine, for each time they swallow they have the 
sum total of the sensation ezgoyed had they taken 
the whole glass at one draught." And again: '*A. 
drunkard knows not how to drink, and he who eats 
too much, or too Areqaent[y, knows not how t» 
eat." 

The sipping and tasting, not rapid drinking, whicb> 
constitutes the deferent duty of the guest in thi» 
reciprocal matter is minutely described by another* 
student of the art of dining as follows: 

The art of drinking wine is unknown except at 
Bordeaux, for with the Bordelais it is an art, and it. 
is quite a sight to witness the operation. The but- 
ler, with a serious air, announces, on pouring it^ 
^'Chateau Giscourt," or "Lascombe," or "Margaux: 
of 1849." The guest silently takes the glass between* 
his thumb and forefinfl^er, raises it to a level witb 
his eye, and with a slight movement of the elbow- 
gives the wine a rotary movement. This sets free: 
the aroma. He sniffs the perfume circulating on: 
the edflre of the glass,looks at the ruby color scintiL- 



^6 



THE ABtSBIOAV COOK. 



atinc in the glass, (hen drinks it off deliberately in 
flmall installments. Silenoe follows; the gaests look 
at each other; the host has an anxious air, await- 
ing the Terdict; then opinions are given in turn in 
a serious tone, and the wealth of adjectives 
at the command of a Bordelais is reviyed. If the 
judgment is unfavorable, the wine is declared as 
rebelle, dur, sant ame, deplaitante, ehoqitant, antipO' 
thique, imperatif. If, on the contrary the judgment 
is fovorable, eyes sparkle and the wine is styled 
4xmabl€, ffraeieux,aeduitantf patsionnantf eUgant, riehe, 
fier^ prandt beau, doux, par/ume, iruinuant, coquet, 
ravissarU, ineompearable, pUen ^ amour. 

If this fine and critical judgment was not culti- 
vated in some quarters the motive for miaturing 
wine by years of keeping would be lost, for any sort 
«f beverage would be acceptable to those who, like 
the sailor, on being told that the glass poured out 
for him was very old wine, would remark that it 
was very small of its age, and %% is in consideration 
of this undiscriminatlng eagerness that is apt to be 
exhibited by anyone at the beginning of a meal that 
the commoner wines are served first and the best 
kept until last, and champagne may be the best in 
most cases; if of a choice and rare brand it may be 
that there is really nothing better, hence the cus- 
tom of ending with champagne. It ia the preroga- 
tive of tl^e possessors of fine cellars to be able to end 
with something else. There are light champagnes 
that are more appropriate for the earlier courses of 
a dinner than for the close. 



Wines in OouxBes. 



'*To maintain," says a high authority, "that a 
man must not change his wine is a heresy; the 
palate becomes cloyed, and, after three or four 
glasses, it is but a deadened sensation that even the 
best wine produces. The art of catering teaches 
how to put the wines on the table in such order as 
to produce for the guests an enjoyment constantly 
increasing up to the point where pleasure ends ahd 
sbuse begins.'* Such being the object in view its 
attainment is a matter of more consequence than the 
observance of conventional usages in the order of 
the names of wines. 

It was observed some years since that the vice- 
royalty of Canada was sanctioning a rule in the 
aerving of wines somewhat different from the gener- 
ally accepted mode and inquiry led to t]ie ascertain- 
ment that the master of ceremonies based his pro- 
cedure upon the following rule: 

With fish or soup use sherry or Sauterne* 

With roast meat use hock and claret. 

With turtle use punch. 

With whitebait use champagne. 

With game use port or Burgundy. 

Between the roast and confectionery use sparkling 
wines. 

With sweets use Madeira. 



With dessert use port, Tokay, Madeira^ sherry.or 
claret. 

Ice is never put in red wines even in summer. 
Burgundy should be slightly warmed. Glarei-cnp 
and champagne-cup should always be iced, and 
these are the only two wines in which ice is used. 
Every kind of wine has its different glass ; cham- 
pagne glasses for champagne only; goblets for claret 
and Burgundy; ordinary wine glasses for sherry 
and Madeira; green glasses for hock; large bell- 
shaped glasses for port. Port, sherry, and Madeira 
are decanted in the late style, but hook and 
champagne appear in their native bottles. Claret 
and Burgundy are always handed around in olarei 

That eertainly seems to give latitude enough for 
the use of any sort of wine, and taking whitebait, a 
fish not known in this country, but comparable to 
small trout ftried, for the admission.ohampagne may 
be used with fish. 

In close connection with the above it is to be ob- 
served that new opinions are occasionally advanced 
and new deviations made on the other side of the 
Atlantic whose impressions are too quiet to at once 
strike the general observation. A certain master of 
ceremonies, once of the Paris Jockey Club, once of 
the Queen of England's household, put forth just 
such a set of rules as that above found not very long 
ago, but whether he learned from the palace or the 
palace firom him,and whether the Paris Jockey Club 
should be considered as leading or following, are 
matters not to be determined. What he says is in 
these words, first quoting a learned French doctor's 
general remarks upon the use of wine in any case: 

"For persons far advanced in years, old wine, in 
small quantities, is always to be preferred; taken in 
such a way it is a valuable tonic,but when taken in 
anything approaching excess, it loses all its benefi- 
cial effects. 

"To those fortunate individuals in the prime of 
life who are gifted with a powerful constitution, I 
would recommend but a very sparing use of wine, 
and only of the lighter kinds. 

"Where there is a chronic tendeneyHo weakness, 
there will wine first manifest its iigurious effects; 
thus in the same way as a weak sight suffers from 
too much light or wind, will it suffer firom the 
use of alcoholic stimulants, and manifest the fact 
by inflamed and bloodshot eyes. 

"My object is not to recommenced in all such 
cases the total abstinence from wine, but merely 
to advise its discreet use and judicious selection." 

Thus far the physician, next the master of cere- 
monies: 

In a general way, wine may be said to have the 

following influence on our fhune. A light clear 

wine, with but little color and alcohol, gives a 
wholesome fillip to the circulation; a fUU-bodied and 
alcoholic wine, on the contrary, is rather calculated 
to make it sluggish. 



THE AJOBBIOAK OOOK. 



307 



A Parlslaxi Authority. 



<*Hayinghad manj oppprtanities of testing. the 
most pleasant mode of serring wine at dinner, and 
its most saccessful order of procedure I think it well 
to giye a few hints on the subject. 

"After the soup and fish, sherry, Madeira or 
Marsala are frequently served; but I would advise 
eelecting lighter wines such as Sauteme, Graves, 
€hablis, Pouilly, Meursaiilt or Montracbet; all these 
wines, as well as light champagnes, which can with 
advantage be served at this stage of a dinner,8hould 
be very cool. 

*'Such wines do not clog the appetite, as stronger 
wines would do, but, on the contrary, they give i^ 
« gentle fillip, and endow it with new vigor. 

'^Comparing a dinner to a brilliant orchestral 
•composition, it strikes me very forcibly that, if, at 
the very first bars,. I am deafened by the big drum, 
the double bass,and the trombone, I shall no longer 
be able to appreciate the sweet melodies which are 
about to follow. Similarly, if, at the beginning of a 
meal, my host is too persistent in helping me to full- 
bodied wines, he will deaden my palate, take off 
the edfl^e of my appetite, and prevent my appreci* 
mting the delicacy of the cookery. 

"At the beginning of a dinner, therefore, have 
only the lighter kinds of wine; with the roast serve 
those which have more body; they will prepare the 
palate for the more delicate wines which should fol- 
low, namely, such 'Burgundies as Gorton, Clos- 
Vongeot, Romanee-Conti, and Pomard; or such as 
«ome of the undermentioned clarets: St. Julien, 
i^hateau La Rose, Leoville, Lafitte, and Chateau- 
Margauz.' 

<*With dessert serve the following sweet wines: 
Malaga, Alicant, Rivesaltes, Malmsey, Lachryma- 
€hristi, Constance, Tokay, and the higher brands of 
champagne, iced. 

'*My directions for serving wine will probably 
be criticised; but I would beg of those who differ 
from me to judge the question on its own merits: if 
t^e art of the cook is to provoke appetite without 
overtaxing the digestive organs, surely that of he 
Who boasts of a good cellar is to induce his friends 
V) drink without endangering their sobriety? 

"I consider it bad taste to serve too many differ- 
ent kinds of wines; variety without profusion should 
be the aim; and quality should be the very first 
consideration, not only for the higher class wines, 
but principally for the more common descriptions 
of ffins ortUnaires, which, as they are most used 
during the meal, should be selected with propor- 
tionate care. 

**LastIy, the following directions should be at- 
tended to before serving the different wines: 

** Vin ordinaire should be served in claret jugs, 
and Tory cool; in winter it will be sufficient to 
bring it direct from the cellar, when wanted; in 



summer it should be very slightly iced, or put to 
cool in spring water. 

''Claret of a choice vintage should be brought 
from the cellar a few hours before it is required; so 
that it may become of the same temperature as the 
dining room; it is a mistake to Imagine that putting 
it before the fire improves it. 

« 'Burgundy is best when cool, by which I do not 
mean cold; for, should the weather be very cold, it 
will be improved by being kept in the dining room 
some little time before it is served. 

<*Champagne, on the contrary, is never so good as 
when it is iced; icing brings out all its latent quali- 
ties; and your guests, when they drink it, will find 
therein the necessary eloquence to praise worthily 
the efforts made to please them." 

Such are the amplifications and explanations of 
the concise set ot rules before repeated, and they 
will be found to be in accordance although the 
sources of authority may appear to be so far remov- 
ed; and, from first to la8t,fVom the prolonged feasts 
of the ancients to the most artistically devised ban« 
quets of the present, the scheme of catering has been 
for the utmost gratification of a refined sense with- 
out excess in anything. 

An authority in American society says, * If three 
wines are seived, let them be a choice sherry with 
the soup, claret with the first course after the fish, 
and champagne with the roast. If a fourth is de- 
sired there is no better selection than a Chateau 
Yquem, to be served with an entree. If champagne 
alone is used serve it just after the fish. Many 
serve claret during the entire dinner, it matters not 
how many other varieties may be served; others do 
the same with champagne— for the benefit of the 
ladies, they say. I believe, however, champagne ia 
considered with more disfavor every day." 



Befireshxnents at Ball Suppers. 

There are other occasions besides dinners, bow- 
ever, when the judicious method of serving bever- 
ages must be considered, as there are places where 
wine must. not enter. A witty writer in a society 
paper made the sly remark the other day that in a 
new game of forfeits the young men who lose are 
compelled to bring a glass of water to the lady at 
the next ball, that being the hardest thing to obtain. 
No person can be said to be proficient in th ) art of 
catering who is not equal to this difficulty and is 
unable to furnish a sufficiency of that agreeable 
fluid, lighter than the lightest wine and less de- 
structive to the appetite than the most delicate dish. 
The quicker perception of the needs of the occasion 
experienced by those accustomed to the course of 
the festivities by partaking of them frequently was 
shown in the preparations for a private party that 
has but just passed into the region of the bye-gones. 
when, for a refreshment to be handed around to 
the dancers an hour previous to the Bupper,a firoien 



308 



THE AMERICAN COOK. 



marachiDO punch was determined upon, that which 
one of Thackeray's characters describes as having a 
flayor as seductive as the smiles of beauty, and it 
was intended to take the place of the proposed 
claret cup and lemonade, excluding everything but 
water. But the host observing, said that would 
never do; there should be froxen maraschino 
punch, of course, but there must be cool lemonade 
^ well. 



Pattern for a Dinner in Oourses. 



For an example of the safe pattern of a dinner 
served in courses the following i^ appended. It is 
the menu of an actual dinner served on a private 
occasion somewhere in New York. As a dinner 
menu it is good,excepting the aflfectation of a foreign 
language for an American party, and in size fur- 
nishes a convenient specimen. Whoever deviates 
from the regular track must consider whether any 
eyes are likely to be critical of the performance. It 
IS something the same in planning a pretentious 
menu as in beginning a game of chess. There are 
certain well known safe openings which the timid 
player may follow, but the powerful masters of the 
game may indulge in brilliant eccentricities with 
equal safety: 

Clams 

Chateau Sauternes 



POTAGE. 

Printaniere Princesse 

Amontillado 



POISSON. 

Sea Bass a la Maitre d' Hotel 
Concombres Pommes Nouvelles 



RELEVE. 

Filet de Boeuf pique, aux Champignons 
Choux-fleurs 

Chateau Lamarque 



The Explanation. 



ENTREE. 

Ris de Veau aux Petits Pois 
Asperges 



Clams — raw on the shell served with half a 
lemon, this being a May dinner, and Sauterne wine. 
Soup — Spring, or green vegetable (asparagus beads, 
peas, etc.), with a little rice in whole grains, 
Amontillado is the name of a brand of light sherry. 
Fish — sea bass, probably boiled, and maitre d' hotel 
sauce poured over in the dish, with cucumbers and 
new potatoes to complete the course. Thereleve or 
remove, as many menus have it, equivalent to the 
roasted or boiled joint of ordinary dinners, is 
tenderloin of beef larded, roasted and served with 
mushrooms in sauce, the vegetable to go with it i» 
cauliflower. The wine, Chateau Lamarque, is one 
of the higher class of French wines, a claret. Entree 
— sweetbreads with green peas, probably larded 
and braised; the accompanying vegetable in this 
course is aspnragus. Then comes Roman punch. 
Next comes the rod, meaning roast meat in general, 
but in a menu meaning game in particular, the 
English heading would be "game, ' for which the 
French word is gihier. That also sometimes appears 
instead of roti. The dish is roast grass plover, 
roasted over toast and the trail spread upon it, oa 
which the birds are placed and water cress around, 
in the dish. Lettuce salad completes this course^ 
and the wine between it and the dessert is cham- 
pagne, and the last wine that is served. The last 
course consists of Neapolitan ice cream, strawber- 
ries, (fraiaea) cheese, (fromage) fancy small cakes^ 
{petiU fours) and deaaerU assortia includes such, 
things as fruits, figs, raisins and nuts. 

Where the clams are written in this early sum- 
mer menu, oysters on the shell would be found ia 
winter; only four, five or six are served to each 
plate, and they are supposed to increase the appe- 
tite for dinner instead of allaying it. The soup 
will be but a few spoonfuls, perhaps a third of a 
plate, the real dinner begins with the fish and the- 
beefisthe substantial part; the punch served in 
punch glasses gives an interval, and is supposed to 
renew the appetite for the acceptance of«the dainty 
morsel under the head of rotf, where vegetables^ 
Vould have no attraction, but a cool, refreshing 
salad takes the place as the accompaniment. The 
rest are but light sweets and pastimes. 



Punch Romaine. 



ROTI. 

Grass Plovers on Toast au Cresson 
Salade de Laitue 

Veuve Cliquot, Yellow Label 



DESSERT. 



Creme Napolitaipe. 

Fraises Fro mage 

Petits Fours Desserts Assortis 



American Plan, or Table d'Hote. 



The best form of dinner is, however, the present 
American plan dinner, or, as the French call it» 
table d'hote It is the only plan that is universally 
adaptable to either the smallest or largest num- 
bers, either to the family dinner of four or five in- 
dividuals or to the largest hotel with as many hun- 
dreds. The dinner served in single courses may 
be the dinner of wealth and culture, for occasiona 
.of ceremony and display, but none pretends that it 



THE AMEBICAN COOK. 



30» 



\b the meal of the greatest enjoyment. It requires 
a knowledge of gastronomy and epicurism on the 
part of the partakers that is not common in this 
country, and is not cultivated with any conspicu- 
ous degree of interest, a fact which it is common 
fashion to deplore, but without reason. Our peo- 
ple are too much interested in more active matters 
to resolve themselves into communities of profes- 
sional eaters. They have the keenest enjoyment 
for good things to eat and drink, but prefer the en. 
joyment without the study. Let the stewards and 
cooks prepare the feast and the guests will do it 
justice if it is good and criticise or leave it if it is 
not| after a free fashion that is not admissable at a 
course dinner, where each person is expected to 
partake of every course, if not to eat it at least to 
pretend to do so and con^me time while others 
do. 

It is the American plan that needs to be cultiva- 
ted, developed, improved by the grafting upon it of 
the peculiar excellences of the purely artistic din. 
ner ss well as the sociability of the family table. It 
already has such advantages in its favor as that it 
demands the highest degree of efficiency in the ca- 
terer and skill in the cook, and at the same time 
affords the means to pay sufficient compensation to 
secure them. Very few private parties can afford 
to pay what hotels and restaurants pay,consequent>y 
very few can enjoy the products of the best trained 
proficiency unless they go to ouq or the other of 
such establishments. Very few can afford to order 
at the highest class restaurants and give carte 
blanchef that is, leave it io the caterer to do his best 
without regard to the cost, and if they cannot they 
must stay within the bounds of ordering according 
to their own limited knowledge of dishes and com- 
binations and their own ideas of the mon^sy value 
of the gratification desired. Those who dine at 
American plan tables do that in regard to pay, but 
they receive, according to what rate they pay, an 
amount, a variety, a style of cookery and service 
that could scarcely be obtained without a vast ex- 
penditure at a cafe, anckin privi^te houses is practi- 
cally impossible. 

Accordingly, these who have become accustomed 
to the best hotel tables are the most fastidious and 
critical diners in the world. They get the best,and 
soon learn to be exacting enough to be satisfied 
with nothing less. The viands that are prepared 
at some establishment at adistanceand transported 
to the house of the private party wouM be criti 
cised by the habitues of the highest cla^s hotels as 
having been too long from the fire. They have 
their shell fish served direct from the refrigerators; 
their soups perfect, at a few minutes after the cook 
has bestowed the last touch of attention to their ap- 
pearance; their meats, with the hot juices at the 
steaming point; their sauces, with the velvety ap 
pearance they have when fresh made; their souffles, 



light, distended, puffed up, but a minute from the 
oven; their pastry, absolutely fresh and new; their 
ices, when most perfect, without the mishaps and 
deteriorations of long waits. 

The rolls served out by thousands of dozens by- 
the bakers would be spurned by our exacting hotel 
gnests as cold bread. They demand them fresh 
baked and hot. Fancy bread, muffins, waffles and 
all of those kinds are found in full variety and fresh 
made perfection only in American plan hotels. For 
these reasons those who regularly live at American 
plan hotels live better as regards good eating than 
any other people in the world, and know more in a 
practical way about dishes and cookery, and the 
flavors and qualities of the different edibles, but do 
not know and are not interested in*the tecnicalitiea 
of cooking and catering. If any people fare badly 
at an American plan table they are the strangers to 
whom the method is new, but they are notoriously 
the most easily pleased at first and as they in turn 
learn to be critical they also learn how to avaiK 
themselves of all the advantages. 



The Highest Praise of a Cook. 

The highest praise of a cook ever printed ap». 
peared in the new French cooii's journal very re> 
cently. It was but a sentence referring to the- 
chief cook of one of the most celebrated catering es- 
tablishments in this country, but it said that in. 
over two thousand menus of his preparation thai 
were under review there was not two alike. It 
was depressing to find another journal in the same- 
line soon after repeating the commonplace part of 
the compliment that would fit any man and leaving 
out the essential point and pith. The ability to- 
produce so large a number of blls of fare and never 
two exactly alike implies and includes all the 
knowledge of all the resources of the arts of cater- 
ing and cooking that anybody can possess. If a 
cook builds up a fine ornamental center piece of 
figures moulded in tallow or wax it is pretty, hut it 
is nothing because other artists can do better in. 
plaster of Paris or metal. It does not make the 
eatable better; it does not advance the art of cook- 
ery; it does not help small hotels nor private 
bouses; it is not practical art. But the art of pro- 
ducing variety and of making common things good 
and attractive is what the cooks are at present most 
deficient in and that most needs to be cultivated. 
There is an existing consciousness of the value of' 
the power of constant variation but it has led to 
some very wrong notions and to some great absur- 
dities in exhibition that are peculiar to American 
plan hotels, not being possible anywhere else, such 
as the crowding of unreasonable numbers of dishes 
on the bill of fare. The use of knowing how to cook 
everything in every manner is not to put it all into 
one dinner but to be able to make a dinner out of 



310 



THE AKEBICAK COOK. 



Anything. To join much of the cheap nith a little 
of the dear, not to make the dear article the woree 
by it but to help it and make both things the better 
by the combination. It is to know so many good 
ways and good combinations and so many ways of 
making people like it that when any particular thing 
is cheap aud abundant that article can be used in 
large quantities, and when it becomes less obtain- 
able the use of varied knowledge is to take up some- 
thing else and provide equally as good meals with- 
out it. The opposite of all this is the helplessness 
that knows but a few dishes and can do nothing 
without a plentiftil supply of certain articles that 
may be very difficult to obtain. The American plan 
oannot be the most money-making plan without the 
exercise of this faculty of change and adaptability 
on the part of the cooks, neither can it give the 
highest enjoyment to the lovers of good living, for 
« reasonable, intelligently regulated variation of the 
dishes is an essential matter. The peculiar demands 
of the American plan hotels are leading to their 
providers, caterers, stewards, cooks, pastry cooks 
and bakers being the best in the world and accord- 
ing to their grade they offer already the all-powerful 
inducement to the study of excellence, the highest 
pay for the most varied skill. The cook who can 
do but a few things, make but a doien or two of 
dishes or articles, and is stepped and made useless 
by every little scarcity is not in much demand. 
The crowding of a great number of dishes in one 
bill of fare is not a evidence of varied knowledge. 
VIost of the bills that contain ten or a dozen entrees 
at a time if examined day after day or Sunday after 
Sunday are found to contain the same few things 
everlastingly repeated. 



The Restaurant Dinner. 

There are hotel men who grow tired of trying to 
give so much in such good style under the Ameri- 
can plan for so little pay and they say the restaur- 
ant plan after all is the only way to make profit. It 
restrains the hoggish wasteful eater wonderfully to 
eee his check by the side of his plate growing to 
larger denominations at even pace with the disten- 
tension of his stomach. But it is difficult to keep 
up a place strictly on that plan, and there are few 
restaurants that do not find it necessary to adopt 
more or less of the plan of offering a regular meal 
for a certain sum total. This is the popular plan 
and the popular demand, for, as some one jocularly 
remarks: "0, the table d'hotes are a boon to men 
who are more certain of their own idea of desirable 
expenditure than they are ot their companion's ap- 
petite. There is a charming definiteness about a 
meal for $1.25, claret included, that offsets an oc- 
oasional disappointment in the viands. Dining 
rooms on this plan have multiplied in number and 
popularity within a year or two. There used to be 



an Italian restaurant on Fourteenth street famous 
for the abundance of the dinner which it offered for 
II only." 

But there is an epicurean class of onstomers to 
whom the question of expense is not a consideration 
and restaurants or cafes of the highest class thrive 
and high class cooking is done wherever there is 
enough of this class of patronage to warrant the 
outlay of the requisite means to serve the meals 
luxuriously. This field is very limited, for the 
particular c'ass of customers soon form clubs, pro- 
cure the best caterers and cooks and set up their 
own menage and the restaurateur seeks business 
among the wealthy dinner-givers at their own 
houses. The largest cities support only two or three 
completely equipped . establiehments of this sort, 
although every town with the least pretense to 
society has need of a public caterer, and because 
there are so few that really understand the business 
puts up with the assistance of the confectioner or 
baker or the village busybody who knows how to 
make ham sandwiches and pic-nic lemonade. In 
every town there are people li^e some city c'ub 
members, who do not agree with the fashionable 
plan of a dinner in many courses with small por- 
Uons of each, but if a delicacy be in store hold it 
best to attack it with the keenest appetite, eigoy it 
to the utmost, eat but little else at that meal and 
for the next seek something n'ew. The establish- 
ment that caters' to their requirements needs to 
adopt the same means for procuring the newest and 
rarest viands that a newspaper does for news. 
Leaving out the few exceptional establishments 
kept up by parties who de not need to count the 
cost, the general run of restaurants do not train 
their caterers and cooks to the perfection that 
hotels do, their business being so nearly like mer- 
chandising. 

They call into exercise but a small part of the 
resources of the art of cookery for (hey make only 
such dishes as will sell and cannot set a table above 
the level of their customers' apprehension as Amen* 
can plan hotels can, and as good hotels constantly 
do. When a restaurant keeper can buy an article 
of cooked provision cheaper than he can get it 
made in his own house he does so, and when he 
says it is useless to make or prepare any kind of 
dish because, he cannot sell it there is an end of 
effort in that direction. But people who eat con- 
stantly at a table d^hoie where there is a new bill of 
fare each day become familiar in time with every 
kind of dish and insensibly become learned in the 
arts of eatering and cooking. 



Frenoh Terms. 

None but a very few of the more exclusive sort of 
hotels can now afford to use French terms in thei^ 
printed bills of fare, and it ia of doabtftil expedl* 



THB AMSBICAN COOK. 



311 



ency even for them unless the menus are entirely 
French. That which was, perhaps, a good enough 
fashion once has become Yulgarised like any past 
fashion in dress by every class of incompetent imita- 
tors trying it on and producing frightful effects. It 
is not well to be pragmatical in such a matter nor 
cultivate a sort of Franco-phobia, to cry out when- 
ever a French word appears in a menu, for there 
are questions of taste involved and some know when 
and how to gain an advantage in that way. Such 
great novelists as Charlotte Bronte,Thackeray and 
Bulwer Lytton incurred lasting censure for indulg- 
ing in the pedantic weakness of putting whole dia- 
logues and whole pages of French in the middle of 
their book8,that of course the Tast mflgority of their 
readers could not understand and were much an 
noyed; and still, an occasional foreign word slipped 
in by the best writers seems to be thought rather 
rather ornamental than otherwise, besides being 
snch an evident relief to the writers themselves who 
have more knowledge than they can possibly hold 
in. The plan and method used in introducing* 
dishes more or less peculiar to other countries into 
England and America, with the principal thing 
named in English but the technical terms and the 
affixed style in French worked well when the cooks 
and stewards happened to be educated people. But, 
unfortunately, most of those who wrote the bills of 
fare did not read but only put down the words as 
they sounded when they heard them repeated, and 
the nonsense thus produced could not be set right 
by the printers, who always correct everybody's 
bad spelling except Josh Billing', when it is in 
English, but who are not expected to understand 
cooking terms. 

As these cooks and stewards did not know the 
meaning of the terms which they could not even 
spell, they could not know much about the dishes 
that belonged to the terms, and traveling people 
and regular boarders alike soon learned that every 
dish that had a French name in the bill of fare was 
sure not to be fit to eat and that the whole hotel 
French entree list was a fraud and a farce. This 
has brought a good deal of undeseryed odium upon 
French cookery among people who have gained 
their impressions of it in that way, and has done 
harm to the hotel business, so that even in the ho- 
tels where they are as near correct with their 
French terms and entrees as any one not really 
French ever gets to be, still the public feels the 
same suspicion and takes plain beef and turkey. 
Hotel keepers, therefore, very generally are doing 
away with the French ridiculousness and are stat- 
ing what they have for dinner in plain language, 
and when they cannot find suitable English terms to 
tell how a thing is cooked they let it go without,and 
encourage their patrons to take the reputation of 
their table for the assurance that the dish is good 
mnyway. Lest any reader may think he will be 



lacking in style i^ he write his bill of fare in Eng- 
lish, here is what a high Washington authority 
wrote about it a few years ago: 

<*It is a pity that our own rich language is inade- 
quate to the duties of a fashionable bill of fare. I 
would say that some tact might be displayed in 
choosing which language to employ. If you are 
entertaining a company of foreign embassadors, 
use unhesitating the French bills of fare (all 
French), but practical uncles and substantial per- 
sons of learning and wit, who, perhaps, do not ap- 
preciate the merits of languages which they do 
understand, might consider you demented to place 
one of these effusions b fore them- I would advise 
the English bills ot fare on these occasions." 



An Aznerioan Plan Dinner. 



SADDLE ROCK OTSTEBS. 



SOUP. 



Cream of Asparagus 



Consomme Royal 



HOBS D (EUTRBS. 

Sliced cupumbers Small Patties Sliced Tomatoes 



FISH. 

Fillet of Striped Bass, Italian Sanoe 
Potatoes Hollandaise 



REMOVES. 

Boiled Capon, Celery Sauce 
Roast Spring Lamb, Mint Sauce 
Roast Sirloin of Beef, Brown Gravy 
Roast Saddle of Veal, with Dressing 

Roast Pucklings, and Fresh Green Peas 



Claret Punch, 



SALADS. 

Lettuce Shrimp Potato 



Lobster 



ENTREES. 

Croquettes of Sweetbreads, and Mushrooms 
Supreme of Chicken, with Truffles 
Stewed Eggs, Alsascian Sauce 

French Pancakes, with Jelly 



VEGETABLES. 

Fresh Asparagus Fresh Green Peas 

Stewed Tomatoes String Beans 

Boiled Potatoes Mashed Potatoes 



DESSERT. 

Steamed Fruit Pudding, Brandy Sauce 

Apricot Pie Cream Meringue Pie Mixed Cake 

Maraschino Jelly Philadelphia Ice Cream 

Fruits Crackers Cheese 



FRENCH COFFEE. 



Galt House, Louisville, Ky., 
March 25, 1888. 



312 



THE AKEBICAN COOK. 



Servioe. 

It seems lihe a species of irony to speak of the 
highest possibilities of excellence ifi furnishing a 
table with choice things to eat and drink in pres- 
ence of a large number of hotels with whose pro- 
prietors the question of how to get what is due to 
them for board furnished at the lowest possible rate 
to their slow-paying customers is all the engrossing 
one, and the talk about high-priced rarities ordered 
from a distance, and high-priced cooks to prepare 
them skillfully, seems more like fancy sketches of 
free spreads furnished by private wealth than prac- 
tical business matters. Perfection in any depart- 
ment is only reached in a few places, if ever, but 
there is always some degee of excellence that it 
pays to achieve in every situation. It is probably 
as essential in the hotel business as any other that 
the man should take an active interest in his occu- 
pation to make a success of it. As everybody must 
eat, whatever is true as regards one place must be 
true for any other according to grade, and the pro- 
viding and cooking is not everything. The beef 
may be reasted perfectly in the smallest house, and 
coffee be made as good as in the largest, and bread 
and potatoes, which are by themselves such cheap 
articles of diet that the restaurant keepers find they 
can almost give them away if they but get pay for 
the meats, can be cooked as perfectly in the poorest 
house as in the richest. But it may be that in the 
poorest ons there is no head waiter and none to 
perform the functions of the office. Perhaps the 
food looks, upon the dishes as if it had been dished 
up with a scoop shovel and hay fork. It may be 
brought in by tidy boys or round armed girls who 
are more amused with their own little affairs all 
over the room than interested in the commonplace 
business of placing knives and spoons, cream and 
sugar, a napkin or plate of bread within reach of 
the guest whom they have tantalized by setting a 
meal before him without the ordinary appliances to 
enable him to eat it, and sailing away into the dis- 
tance never to return. Different sorts of people act 
differently under such circumstances; they heaf the 
light hearted creatures singing or whistling in the 
kitchen and one will sit and sulk and mutter; an- 
other will boldly rise and walk to the other end of 
the table, or to the next table, to reach the mustard 
cruet, and then leave it alone because it is stale and 
dirty; another will lay aside the celery he had 
taken up because he cannpt reach any salt, stirs up 
his coffee with his knife,and leaves the dining room 
as soon as possible; another hammers a plate with 
his knife, hates himself for it and is hated, but all 
of them regard it as a species of sarcasm in any- 
body to talk about the pleasures and luxuries of an 
American plan hotel — unless they have traveled 
i'urther and seen better specimens. Under such a 
wretched sort of dining room service as that sup- 



posed, good cooking is thrown away. So with liberal 
providing. The writer has seen a house provided 
with early luxuries such as, for instance, strawber- 
ries, or California pears at nine dollars a box, of 
which never more than about a third were actually 
consumed by the guests. The proprietor had a 
steward to attend to those matters for him, and the 
steward was too good natured for anylhing,and too 
fearful of being thought stingy to look up anything. 
The guests were always supplied, but what they ate 
cost somewhere near twenty-five dollars a box. 

The furnishing of occasional treats of things 
newly come in season is a borrowing of one of the 
principal attractions of the restaurant plan, and 
the experienced caterer does not expect it to pay the 
expense on the instant, but with a further tempor- 
ary adoption of that plan of serving very little else 
beside the special article, and with a very proper 
degree of what is called stinginess, to see that it 
reaches those it is intended for, a great deal of this 
kind of attractiveness may be employed with profit- 
able results. 

The fear of being called stingy is one of the chief 
obstacles in the way of profitable hotel-keeping,and 
everybody except the very well bred is ready to 
hurl the epithet. There was a hotel keeper in a 
good sized town in the interior, a thriving county 
seat with but two hotels, whose method of table 
management brought upon him more than the usual 
amount of derogatory remarks and small witticisms, 
it being one of the chief points against him that the 
portions served on the dishes were so small that to 
order from his bill of fare was but a delusion, a 
man had to eat everything that was set before him, 
and call for it all in order to get enough; and an- 
other was that the newspapers were seldom without 
his advertisements for some description of help, 
leading to the inference that he was a hard task 
master. There is every reason for believing, not- 
withstanding the gossip,that he conducted his house 
upon the most correct principles and in the only 
way that a good hotel could be kept and make 
money In the place. The writer shared somewhat 
in the common prejudice and never saw him but 
once, at a distance — a white-haired old gentleman 
in broadcloth — but seeing from time to time how 
new parties took the only other hotel, with new 
spurts of energy and new promises to make it the 
only first class house, and seeing them all as surely 
fail, while the white-haired old gentleman kept on 
the even tenor of his way, paying everybody, own- 
ing his house, which bears his own name, and prac- 
tically monopolizing the hotel business of his town, 
has led to the belief tiiat all the gbssip was but the 
malice of ignorance and the hotel keeper had his 

business upon a scientiBc basis. 
To dish up small, and yet not absurdly small, is 

the hardest thing a man has to trian his hands in. 

The tabu d'hote dinner is a failure, however, where 



THB AKBBICAN COOK. 



Ibe rul« oannot ba eoforced. This stjle of dinoer 
U bMed upon the same prinoipleB aa th« dioaer of 
luKurr and ceremonj described in Ihe first of these 
papers, in which there is a succession of viaads Id 
small portions, and Ihe appetile ii not lo be ap- 
ptased apoD the first courses alone, bat led oo irith 
eDJojmeDt for tbe entire "square meal." 

There is a mutual interest aud should be a tacit 
underslanding between hostaad boarder in this re- 
gard. Tbe boarder wants the lowest possible rate, 
and he would be horrified at the thought of having 
food presented lo him that bad already been atrted 
■once or several times to others and returned; but if 
he and each one has two or three times as much set 
before him as he cau eat, either he must pay far 
much mare than he needs or the hotel lleeper must 
fail in basin esH. It is much more sensible for a 
penon to have to order some dish that speclall; 
suits bim two or three limes replenished ihan lO 
haTe before him half a dozen full dishes of articles 
-that be does not waul. 

ConolasloziB. 

fbe lerm caterer has been emplored in making 
these obaenstion as being more comprehensire 
than steward. There may be no steward in the 
house but Htill some one must be oaterer or pro- 
Tider. FrequentlT tbe dut; i» shared by seTeral, as 
the head cook aud the proprietor, or bis sod, or 
aome other attache of the house. 

The caterer must know how lo cook. Actual 
practice may not be necesuiry, but be should know 
all there is lo be known about it short of thai. 

The public caterer orrbSiaurateurmust know all 
about cooking, buying, articles in season, and- the 
next to be. He must be able lo say what kind of a 
meal or banquet can be furnished for any stated 
sum, therefore he must know what eier; dish 
costs, in an arersge way, per one person or per one 
fauDilred. He knows how many hours or days it 
will take Ihe cooks to prepare anythint; ordered; 



how much expense for Bre and light; how much 
ineiitable waste and shrinkage in provisiaBS, and 
the proper charge to be made for use and wear and 
tear of silverware and china, teaminz and attend- 
ance, and how many waiters are needed for aslated 
number. 

The holel caterer muat know bow good a meal 
can be furnished for a certain price, and lo arrive 
at it must in like manner know the coal of piovii- 
ions and the amount necessary for a given number 
of people, and make allowance for wear and tear, 
laundry eipeuaes, service, and other mBltera be- 
longing. 

Following the highest tyle of dinner usages he 
serves small portions, and consequently must pro- 
vide attentive waiters that the guesli may have 
their dishes replenished if they wish it. 

Following the same principles in the order of 
dishes, he should take oare thai the entrees are hel- 
ler than the plain meats, and most parilcularly 
should encourage eioelleoce in making vegetable 
and farinaceous dishes aod eombiD.atLOD8, which 
his figuring shows him are the abeapesl sqiI beet 
forms of food. Not regarding the pastry and dee- 
sert as a mere superfluity, to be given as an extra 
sort of bouDlTi but rather as an essential part of a 
complete meal, he shou'd see thai it is as good as 
the rest of the dinner; thai those who eat may de- 
pend upon it for a new pleasure lo compensate for 
any self denial they may eierciee during the earlier 



Tbe perplex 



IS of wbat to 



with the waste; how la preveal waste; how ta fur- 
nish a meal of several courses and a coDstaot sue- 
cession of good ibingft in such a way Ibat ii shall 
coal no more than the pound or two of one thing 
bought at a restaurant; how to get the co-operalive 
advantages that ought to accrue from tbe wbelesale 
system of selling a (able for a large number, and 
other suoh prot'lema are only possible of solu- 
tinn through a thorough knowledge of the business 
called the art of catering. 



[The subjects above touched upon an 
■Cooking tor Profit." See advertisements 



fully elaborated and shown in practical detail In 
t the end of this book.] 



fSee Hotel Carving, page 266.] 



( 



THF 



HHOTELfBOOKK- 



OP 




0iip$ Httir ^nir^. 



OOMPmSINO BPECniENB OW 

FRENCH, ENGLISH AND AMERICAN MENUS. 

WITH TBAMBIiATIONS AMD OOMM KMT8. 

61iawli?c{ havr to znakB up hotel Ellis of Fare with all ths dlffarent 

varlBtlBB of sDups and cDnsonunes In proper rQtatlQXi« 

and a new set of entrees or mada 

dishes for every flay. 



Being a Part of the "Oven and Range" Series* 



BY 



JESSUP WHITEHEAD. 



CHICAGO 
1901. 



Bntcred accor^nflf to Act of Congren, 
Ib tiw office of the UbrarUn of Congress, tt Washington, Ol C» 

Right of TrantUdon reserved* 



•«•«••* akv 



• , 



Soups, Entrees i Bills of Fare. 



1161. The Fcdlure of Frenoh Oookery. 

If there be anything still in existence deserving 
the distinctiTe name of French cookery it has sin- 
gularly failed of making itself understood among 
English speaking people, although it has had a 
hundred years of careful importation and nursing 
-among them, with every possible advantage from 
the example of royalty and the fashionable world 
mnd the ceaseless iteration of the press of the su- 
periority of the Frenoh in this department. It is 
-a hundred years in the United States since French 
manners and methods were taken up sedulously 
with the intention of complimenting distinguished 
friends and yisitors from that nation, while Frenoh 
communities have existed both on the north and 
south: still French cookery remains as much an 
unknown system as ever and has made no percept- 
ible impression. K is mentioned as an example of 
progress and culture in a journal of recent date 
that whereas some ten years ago only fifteen 
wealthy New York families employed French cooks, 
now there are a hundred and fifty — a great rate of 
progress, truly, both numbers show after the cul- 
ture of a hundred years, and even with that the 
employment of French speaking cooks does not nec- 
essarily imply the adoption of French cookery pure 
and simple. 



Fashionable London and indeed all fashionable 
England employed French cooks because it was un- 
fashionable to do otherwise from fifty to seventy- 
five years ago, but instead of the people being 
eager to adopt so excellent a system the results 
to the contrary were unconsciously stated a few 
weeks since in a London paper called the Hotel 
Worlds and the article was copied entire in the 
New York Gtutronomer with evident approbation 
that the English cooks know really nothing about 
cooking and that the hotel keepers who wish to set 
good viands before their guests have still to pro- 
cure their cooks from France. And yet there is, as 
there has been since Queen Anne's time, an ino^r* 



porated cook's company in London, and the truth 
of the newspaper article might be challenged, but 
that it suits our purpose to accept it as a state- 
ment of fact. But what has French cookery been 
doing all this time that it has not been universally 
adopted? The inference offered for our acceptance 
is that the people are too stupid to learn to cook. 
The same bewailment of American ignorance and 
stupidity is constantly to be met with when the 
subject of cooking comes up and the same invidious 
comparisons between us and the French in this re- 
gard. But what has French cookery been doing 
all this time that with all its immense advantages 
it has not reformed us all and made us French in 
our methods and tastes and skill through and 
through, Arom one end of the land to the ether? 
These two peoples have not been too stupid to seiie 
upon and improve every other good system and every 
useful idea of any other people, and even without 
the ability to acquire French cookery two great 
nations still eat and live and flourish. As between 
two parties perhaps the fault lies in the lack 
of worth in the system itself. Possibly there is 
nothing now left of what was once known as French 
cookery except a Babel of meaningless terms, and 
French speaking cooks are superior only because 
they are trained in countries where their calling is 
considered as respectable as any that can be named 
and are therefore good cooks without reference to 
their peculiar methods. But assuming that there 
is such a thing and that it is a system of great ex- 
cellence we ought to know why it has failed to 
make itself generally understood. 



It is an accepted axiom that all permanent re- 
forms begin at the bottom, but the attempted re- 
form of French cookery began at the lop. Whether 
it was worth adopting or not it was necessary first 
to understand it, and to do that a certain degree Of 
education has always been a requisite, and those 
who had the education did not do the cooking and 
have rarely been sufficiently interested in a matter 
of no pratical value to them to study the subject. 



318 



TBS AMEBICAK COOK. 



while the real cooka always have been as thejr prob- 
ably alwayj will be among those baring the least 
ornamental education such as a knowledge of foreign 
languages and the biographies of foreign celebrities. 



Even when French cookery is understood it is 
found to be only partially applicable through the 
differences in taste between diffiereni nations of 
people. After all that has been said in favor of 
French cookery and the little mention of German, 
the fact is plain that the latter has the greater h ^Id 
upon the people of this country through a similar- 
ity of inherited tastes for bread and all farinaceoup 
articles and dairy products in preference to spiced 
meats and wine. So much having been written 
vaguely upon these subjects a little useful exper- 
ience of our own may serve to point the meaning. 
The writer chanced to be employed at thai recept- 
ive time of life wlien what we learn is never for 
gotten in a community ' where the cooking was 
strictly and thoroughly a la ProvencaU — tor even 
in France itself the styles vary in different sec- 
tions — where it was regarded as a serious mis- 
demeanor to set anything on to cook in water; it 
miist be weak and sour wine for many things, 
broth for others, their own juices or^gravies only 
for others. Roast beef plain was never seen, but 
the nearest approach to it 'wns i\it entre-coU or 
choice middle ribs of beef thrust full of strips of 
carrot, turnip, celery and bacon and stewed with 
wine and herbs until it was extremely well done. 
Butter was but little used, but the stewed okra 
seasoned with olive oil hung in ropes of slime from 
the spoon and black and blue beans and peas were 
similarly seasoned. A leg of mutton was stuck full 
of fine shreds of garlic and stuffed with minced 
ham. onions and herbs and cooked like the beef; a 
boiled fowl itas filled with onions before cooking 
and a paste of onions highly seasoned was spread 
upon it when done. Beefsteak plain was never 
thought of, but it was always covered and even 
simmered in a sauce pungent with pepper or curry, 
garlic, onions, tomatoes and a dozen different herbs, 
and the brown sauce itself was as highly spiced as 
English plum pudding or American mincemeat. 
This was all skillful cookery and required training 
in the cooks to do it, yet the skill and training 
would be thrown away on such a dinner for an 
average American company. It is not a part of 
the business before us to deride the style de- 
scribed. Some people like all such dishes and 
therefore they are found among the hotel entrees, 
but they are exceptions, and a national system 
cannot be founded upon exceptions. The intelli- 
gent French, it is said, adopted plain roast beef 
underdone from the example of the English. The 
intelligent French cook in this country modifies his 
methods to suit the tastes of the people as he dis- 
rYers them, but in just the same degree he leaves 



distinctive French cookery behind and furnishes a^. 
reason why it is not understood and appreciated^ 
by the native cooks. 



Diverse Schools. 

French cookery is incomprehensible because the- 
French cooks themselves follow several different 
authorities, and our Francatelli is altogether out 
of date with them and one of the smallest author* 
ities among them. It is very rare that any of 
Francatelli*s terms are now met with ' in really 
French menus, and to see them in the bill of fare 
of any hotel is almost a sure sign that there is 
some other sort of a cook trying to be French. It 
is true that a few of the names of dishes are to be 
found the same in all books, such as a la Richelieu, 
a la chasseur, a la Perigeux, and so forth, but still 
there are so many that are to be found in one and 
not in the others that any one ' who is acquainted 
with them all can generally tell from a menu which 
authority the cook is most familiar with. The 
French speak ing cooks of San Francisco, for in- 
stance, seem to show by their menus the greatest 
acquaintance with the terms of the cuisine eUunquet 
those of the Eastern summer resorts indicate Jules 
Gouffe. 



It may be seen from the mere statement of theae^ 
facta that if the uae of a name for a diah ia to con- 
vey a deacription of it the diversity of masters baf- 
fles the intention, for a cook may understand . Ca- 
reme and be well up in Francatelli and still be un- 
able to describe the dishes of another who follows 
Bernard, or may compose his menus for years from 
the dishes of Urbain-Dubois, and still pick up a 
menu containing terms and dishes he knows 
nothing about from Jules and Alphonse Gouffe. 

Besides the cooks in the most prominent positions 
are continually setting out, what are by courtesy 
called new dishes. And supposing that these diff- 
erences could be cleared up by means of the cooks 
meeting in conventions, as has been proposed, tb^ 
utter uselessness of ever reaching an agreement 
would still be felt in the impossibility of making 
the general public for whom cooks exist— even the 
French public itself, understand any better than 
before. 



Too Eztravagant. 

The French cookery that we hotel cooka have^ 
been expected to know originated aa the pastime of 
kings and princes at a period before the age of 
great inventions and when the rich idlers had 
nothing better to think about than to imitate the 
profligacy of the ancient Romana md vie with 
each other in the costliness *)f their banquets. It 
was a merit in s oo<^k to make a dish expensive and 



THE AMERICAN COOK. 



CtlL^ 



the eztravagant character of the whole system thus 
stamped upon it is still an integral part of it and 
unfits it for the adoption of a business-like people. 
The expedients resorted to to make the common' 
food of humanity unnaturally costly by cooking it 
in rare wine and garnishing it with other articles 
costing more than their weight in gold were not so 
permanently injurious as a certain vagary of those 
days which led to a sort of worship of the reduced 
essence of meat as holding all that was worth hay- 
ing in the food, an elixir of life; a sort of hidden 
principle of nutrition that was to be extracted in 
some degree from vegetable f ubstances as well, but 
when extracted whelher from truffles or fish or birds 
or meats^all that remained was regarded as practica- 
bly worthless. It was a passing notion of the wise 
men of their generation — like the blue glass theory 
of a few years ago in this country, but less tran- 
sient — that contained enough of truth to make a 
lasting impression. It made the cooks extremely 
important as the extractors of these precious elix- 
irs. It led to extremes of extravagance. It led to 
the invention of numbers of new dishes which 
French cookery is still encumbered with, little bet- 
ter than a heap of rubbish now; dishes denominated 
a V essence, the essential characteristics of which 
are that they are composed of the concentrated ex- 
tracts of something or other, as likely as not of 
larks or ortolans, or it tnay be only wild boars 
head, but useless now because the fictitious value 
these essences once bad has passed away. For the 
eustomer of a cafe to value such things at their 
former value — these dishes that made the cooks 
who composed them famous — it would be necessary 
for him to be imbued with the beliefs of the times 
ofthedawnof modern chemistry, when it was 
thought to have been discovered that the principles 
of life lay in the gravy. 



This exaggerated estimate was imbibed even by 
Brillat-Savarin, probably in his youth, and an ex- 
ample of it has been already quoted in this book in 
oonnection with the articles on roast beef &nd 
gravy. Our people esteem the natural gravy most 
highly but it is for its real value.as they value *Hhe 
sweet taste of the wheat" in good bread, and not for 
■any imaginary qualities. It is now known by those 
even of the least physiological education that man 
•cannot live on condensed essences, but the stomach 
requires a certain bulk of food along with the 
nourishment. 

An instance in illustration of what is above set 
forth is furnished by an admirer of that system of 
-cookery as follows: 



The Prince of Soubise, wishing one day to cel- 
ebrate a fete, which was to finish off with a supper, 
gave orders that the bill of fare should be shown 
lilni beforehand. Next morning, at his levee, the 



steward made his appearance with the document 
handsomely ornamented, and the first item which 
caught the eye of the Prince was, <*fifty hams." 

''Hullo, Bertrand!'* said he; * you must be ou» 
of y our sensesl Fifty hams! do you intend feast, 
ing all my soldiers V* 

"No your highness; one only will appear on the 
table, but the others are equally necessary for my 
tspagnoUj my blonds^ my 'trimmings," my " 

"Bertrand, you are robbing me, and I oanH let 
this item pass." 

"Ah, monseigneur," said the artist, scarcely 
able to restrain his anger, "you don't know our re- 
sources. Give the order, and those fifty hams 
which annoy you, I shall put them into a glass bot- 
tle no bigger than my thumb.*' 

'*What reply could be made to an assertion so 
pathetic? The Prince smiled, nodded assent, and 
so the item passed. 



)i 



When "the artist'* said he eould put the fifty hams 
into a bottle no bigger than his thumb he meant that 
he -sould extract the essence of them and put it into 

■ 

such a bottle and as that would be all that was 
really of any value according to the craze of that 
time, the meat remaining might as well be consid- 
ered as out of existence, it was all the same as noth* 
ing. And the Prince so greatly admired his skill, 
according to the craze of tliat time, that he smiled 
approvingly. 



Iznpraotloable 



The French cookery that we hotel cooks have 
been expected te know ; that we have gained higher 
pay for pretending to practice, is the same now 
that it was in the time of the Prince of Soubise 
It is founded upon "espaffnoU,** **blonds^' and es- 
sences that take large quantities of meat to make. 
The French cook who is thoroughly imbued with 
the teachings of that system delights in the most 
costly dishes, and for every economical method he 
may be obliged to adopt he makes an apology to the 
genius of his art. It is in the impracticable nature 
of the system itself Ihat it could not be adopted nor 
even understood by any set of people governed by 
business principles. Our familiar Francatelli, the 
book which most cooks possess, and which we borrow 
the big words from to terrify our hotel guests with 
and make them feel small and cheap because they 
don't understand French as we do — the book that 
cooks learn some things from, but which none oan 
work by, is as irreconcilable with any practice 
that hotel-keepers can permit as the "artist" 
Bernard, of the anecdote, himself coald have 
been. 



In order to obtain this precious espaffnole, blond 
and velotUe, presumably for aboat tirenty-fiTC p«r* 



320 



sons— only the sauces for the dinner, it is to be ob> 
seryed, and not the dinner itself— Francatelli tells 
as we must use the following amount of material : 

40 pounds of white veal, or 2 legs. 

40 pounds of gravy beef. 

40 pounds of leg of beef and knuckles of yeal. 

1 pound of fresh butter. 

1 pound of lean hanu 
8 wild rabbits. 

2 hens. 

1 pound of glaze (reduced eesenoe of meat). 

Some essence of mushrooms 

Some chicken broth. 

Some blond of veal. 

Butter and flour thickening, vegetables and herbs* 

When we haye used up all that material — not to 
name that which has gone beside to make the 
pound of glaze, the chicken broth and the blond of 
▼eal and the essence of mushrooms — and gone 
through processes occupying two or three days, we 
shall haye as a result some indefinite amount — 
supposably two or three quarts— of sauces and 
about an equal amount of precious soup stock 
ready to begin to make a soup with. Is there any- 
thing strange in the fact that French cookery has 
failed to take root among us? 



A rancatelli's book is practically the only medium 
there is for English speaking cooks to learn this 
French nonsense through, but although bearing the 
deceptive title of the **Modern Cook," it was 
really written about fifty years ago, and is out of 
date with those who can read French. • So to make 
good our statement that the principle of French 
cooltery is the same to-day that it was in the time 
of the Prince of Soubise and his maitre d* hotel 
Bertrand we will quote the directions for making 
the pame fundamental sauces from Jules Gouffe, so 
late as 1871. We are first to have ready five gal- 
lons of good soup stock, that has consumed in the 
making already an incredible amount of meat and 
poultry, and then we are to take for the new be- 
ginning: 

12 pounds of yeal without bone, 

4 pounds of grayy beef. 
2 young hens. 

2 pounds of fresh butter — ^the 

5 gallons of stock. 

Vegetables, herbs, flour, seasonings. 

Gouffe is sufficiently definite in his statements of 
amounts. When we have have used up the above 
material and condensed the product we shall pos- 
sess 3 quarts of brown sauce and 8 quarts of white 
sauce. Only thiA and nothing more. It may be 
left to the common sense of the cook to make use 
of the solid meat veal and the hens after this first 
use for making sauce, but there is no direction to 
do so, and no encouragement for it is expressly 
stated in these words : 



<<It is a mistake to think that by over-cooking 
the meat the consomme or sauces will be improved 
thereby; when thoroughly cooked, all nutriment'is- 
extracted from the meat 



This, although dated so late as 1871, is the same- 
old worship of the gravy. The meat is nothing; 
the sauce is everything. But the common sense of 
a people rises above the theories of the ancient, 
alchemists and modem cranks. The workingman 
who finds it necessary to lay out so large a propor- 
tion of his earnings in butcher's meat would laugh 
such a theory to scorn; and for hotel men a system 
based upon such ideas is simply absurd and im- 
practicable. 

Every hotel cook repeats the current remarks,. 
"Oh, you can't work by Francatelli," or, '*It 
would break up any hotel in the world to follow 
Francatelli." 

And yet they must read it; there is nothing else. 
If they could read further they would make tho 
same remarks about all the French authorities. 
They read and then stumble along, doing as ciroum-^ 
stances compel them, the best way they can. 

But French cooks who have been trained hava 
these impracticable notions drilled into them and 
are not always so accommodating as to lay them 
aside for money-making considerations. 



Two little instances occur to mind that wilt 
serve to show how this irreconcilable system con- 
flicts with hotel keeping interests. This one was a. 
'*French John," so called, who became second cook 
in a flourishing hotel, and on the second forenoon 
was required to make a tomato sauce. A smalL 
quantity only was wanted, a ten cents worth in 
cost, perhaps; a little sauce made in an omelet pan 
to go with an unimportant entree. There would 
not be more than a dozen orders called for. It did 
not require the expenditure of more than a few 
minutes' time when there were many larger matters, 
needing attention. But John took the solid end of 
a good ham, a two quart can of tomatoes, a pound 
of butter, some onions, bay leaves and other sea- 
sonings and a saucepan of soup stock, which he set. 
about boiling down to glaze, while the three pounds 
of ham was boiling in the tomatoes, likewise being 
condensed. For John was a conscientious disciple 
of the French culinary masters: the word sauce 
was one of immense meaning to him, and he. 
thought the hour or two devoted to that one openu 
tion was worthily spent. The head cook, however, 
disapproved of the whole thing, and when at last a. 
little of the precious sauce had been laboriously 
forced through a *'tammy," and it proved to be 
scorched at the bottom and almost worthless, he 
sharply remonstrated, and poor John got upon hi^ 
dignity. "What you want?" said he. **I cook 
French. I no make it you shlop, I make-it you. 
geod things. If yon want-it shlop for sauce get 









THE AMSBICAN COOK. 



321 



jour pftn-washer to make it; I'm a French cook." 
And BO he folded up his jacket and left. All the 
sympathy goes with John in a case Hke this, be- 
cause he will not make <*shlop," and will not be 
cheap. We understand that very well, and he is 
welcome to it, for the system he works under is 
utterly impracticable Just the same. 

All French cooks are not so unreasonable, for 
they do not all Hyc up to their books; we purposely 
mention two who did, to show how it works. 

The other was a head cook, an ideal French chef, 
soft mannered, educated and polite, who could 
giye a reason for what he did. He was extrava- 
gant in the use of material to a degree worthy al- 
most of Urbain-Pubois, the Kaiser's cook himself. 
The hotel was doing a good business and could 
stand a good deal of expense, still there were some 
items that pinched with an uncommon pressure. 
One of these was butter. The proprietors were 
already educated up to the point of buying none 
but perfectly sweet butter, and it so happened that 
such an article at that time and place cost thirty- 
to forty cents per pound. A forty -pound tub of it 
was relied into the kitchen every morning for the 
cook to use, and it seldom proved sufficient for the 
day. Another i em was the wines and liquors, 
which this chef, working strictly up to rule, would 
not accept at all unless they were by the quart 
dipperful. Common wine for marinading and 
stewing and baking in, Maderia, Port and Sherry 
for soups and ragouts; rum and brandy for sauces. 
Sixteen dollars a day for cooking butter and about 
the same sum for liquors, in a hotel of no great 
size, made the proprietors murmur a long time, and 
at length they spoke to the chef about it. Couldn't 
he manage to run with less? The chef put on a 
dejected look, shrugged his shoulders and spread 
out the palms of his hands — "Yes, if you want to 
live common, but, if you want to be first-class — I" 
That was enough to quell the proprietors. Of 
course they wanted to be first-class. They did not 
stop to say it, but silently retreated. But a short 
time after they mustered up courage once again. 
Better not to be so thoroughly first-class than to 
be bankrupt, and the accomplished chef took his 
departure. He would have been a most valuable 
man in his position, if he had not been pursuing an 
impracticable system. 



Where it onoe Flourished. 



French cookery considered in its ornamental 
character also is a thing of the past. The sudden 
ibange to the fashion of serving dinner a la Rusae 
killed it. The system which used to tyrannize 
4ver all who could not speak the language, had i's 
head severed from its trunk by that swift stroke as 
neatly as in the story we read, where the blade 
was so keen the person decapitated did not know 



that it had passed through his neck until he begaD 
to move about and found his head was loose. 

The allusions we often hear from "old-timers" to 
the splendor of the tables of the southern river 
steamboats of from thirty to fifty years ago are no 
part of the common peurile praise of "good old 
times." but relate to a time when everything orna- 
mental in French cookery and French terms that 
now seem so nonsensical really was brought into 
full practice and exhibition. The peculiar condi- 
tions that made it practicable then and not now, od 
the river, resulted from there being then plenty ot 
very wealthy travelers and no railway in that part 
of the country for them to travel on. They made 
their regular winter visits to New Orleans. The 
steamboats were the only means of conveyance. 
Whole families of the planters went at once and 
returned at once, and they were about a week, on 
an average, on board the boat each way. The 
swiftest steamers that set the finest tables secured 
the greatest numbers. There would be from two 
hundred to five hnndred of the wealthiest, or 
at least the most extravagant class of people; there 
were bands of music on board, and grand balls 
were frequent, when perhaps the passengers from 
another steamboat of even speed going the same 
way would come on board as guest*, to be returned 
to their own boat at some landingtoward the morn- 
ing. There was then nothing too good or too ex- 
pensive for some of the captains to put on their 
tables. That was the time for display. It came to 
an end with the completion of the first northern 
railroad to New Orleans, and the steamboats 
changed in character from race-horses to mere 
beasts of burden. 



Twenty-Four Entrees a Day. 



Tlie style of serving dinner then was to set one 
table the entire length of the cabin, and the dishes 
that composed the dinner were set upon the tabl> 
in their entirety, in chafing dishes kept hot by 
alcohol lamps. To make a good show 
on such a table, as many as twenty-four 
entrees might be wanted, perhaps twelve different 
ones and two of each kind, or eight different and 
three of a kind, and dishes of vegetables to match. 
The people at table saw everything whether they 
chose to partake of it or not, and there was reason 
enough for building up, ornamenting and naminji^ 
dishes then. The waiters took up each dish in 
turn, while the captain or steward was carving and 
serving the roasts, and offered them to each person, 
and helped those who accepted from the dish as 
they went along. The names of dishes meant 
something then to the cooks and stewards, for ^s 
every different named dish of fowl bud a different 
division of the joints, a different way of building 
up in the dish and different color and omamenta- 



322 



THE AKEBICAK COOK. 



tion/one standing at the end of the table could tell 
whether a dish of fowl was a firicassee a la St. 
Lambert, or a fricassee a la Romainef and whether 
another was a turban or a ehartrewe, and whether a 
fish was a la Chambord, or a la CkevaUere, But i 
those dishes had been kept in the kitchen and 
eerved indiyiduallj nobody could have seen where 
the name came in. That is what makes the French 
names so senseless now. You may take a certain 
number of breasts of chicken and build up a turban 
of fillets of fowl, and it w a turban — a definite 
eomething with a name. But if you serve it out of 
«ight, in the carYing room, you cannot persuade 
anybody that it is a piece of turban; common sense 
says it is a piece of chicken. To give the names of 
these dishes that are never seen is like winking at 
your girl in the dark; you may know what you are 
doing but nobody else does. At least half the 
French names of dishes were swept eut of use 
when the individual style and small dishes and 
small tables came in vogue. 



No More Sufirar Toys. 

So with centre pieces and ornamental gum paste 
temples. In ancient times it was the custom to set 
images of the favorite deities on the banqueting 
tables, to bring good luck. The French changed it 
for the plateau, a centre piece of almost any orna- 
inental form, a vase or fountain or church set on a 
bed of moss, or something of the sort, not of eata- 
ble materials, and from that came the chateaux in 
tiugar rock work and the Chinese pagodas in gum 
paste. But now the only centre pieces at the 
finest banquets are banks 3t flowers and the op. 
portunities for displaying ornamental meat dishes 
and sugar work occur but seldom when there is a 
«et supper for a party or a ball. This has swept 
away another feature of the old-time bills of fare, 
for except when the cooks get up banquets for 
themselves so that they may once and again have 
the joy of showing these things which they love so 
much but which nobody else wants, there are no 
more grosses pieces ^ad pieces montees. 



u 



The Tables B'airly Groaned.*' 



reason why the charlottes should not be different 
in form and ornament, the custards all have a dif- 
ferent topping and the meringues be white, rose- 
colored and chocolate instead of all alike, since they 
would be seen all down the table on account of their 
being on raised stands. In the hotels the finest 
dinner of the week was on Sunday, on steamboats 
it was the last dinner of the trip. 

A boat would perhaps be three or fonr days trom 
New Orleans to Memphis, or six or seven to St. 
Louis, or Louisville or Nashville or Huntsville or 
Tuscumbia ; and the steward starting out with his 
ice chests full of provisions, had his Mobile Bay 
oysters, soldered in tin cans at New Orleans, packed 
down in ice that came from Maine in sailing vessels; 
his terrapins, turtle and best fishes, soch as pom- 
pano and Spanish mackerel, all laid out and appor- 
tioned for each dinner that was to come. The first 
day out was common, the second day's dinner bet- 
ter, about the third dinner the extras began to show 
up, and in getting ready for the last two dinners of 
the trip the cooks and pastry cooks would work all 
night doing ornamental work, and when the boat 
was in port they had two or three days with noth- 
ing to do but a dozen officers to cook for, and the 
fine cakes and gum paste businesses on hand would 
do to sturt the return trip dinners with. 



False Standards of Exoellenoe. 



TJnder that old method of setting the long table 
for dinner both in hotel and steamboat and sum. 
moning the people by bell or gong all to come and 
«at and see at once, there were strong reasons for 
doing many things in the way of producing variety 
that seem useless and silly now. There was the 
very extended table to be filled and after the meat 
dishes were removed, as many more of pastry and 
dessert were required to replace them, and if there 
was to be three stands of meringues, three of custard 



The cooks who were eminent among their fellows 
for their skill in building up ornamental entrees 
and cold dishes to set up on high on these long 
tables for all to see]; the cooks who had the largest 
assortment of ornamental silver skewers and who 
could cut the most marvelously fine roses and lilies 
out of beets and turnips ; the pastry cook who could 
build the most architecturally correct churches of 
gum paste, with gelatine windows, and who had 
the most molds wherein to cast horses and things in 
either sugar or mutton tallow found their occupa- 
tion gone under the new fashion of serving dinner 
at small tables and carving the meats in the pantry 
or kitchen, and each one had to throw away enough 
of that kind of knowledge to set up half a doien 
cooks under the modern manner. Still the French 
cooks grieve over this state of things. There is 
nothing finer than a boar's head a la St. Hubert, for 
a cold dish, or a fillet of beef a la Godard, for a 
hot one, but the names relate solely to the manner 
of decorating and the ornamental stands they are 
served upon, and when either article is sliced up St. 
Hubert and M. Godard both vanish and the dishes 
are resolved into their original elements of pig*s 
head and beef. But this is so difficult for cooks — 
and indeed a good many others — to realise, there 
is such a deceptive glamour about these p'ay things 
that kings and nobles have patronised and former 



m cups, and three of charlotte russe, and so forth, 

if the pastry cook was skillful enough there was no | fashions have cherished that a false standard .of 



THE AMEBICAN COOK. 



323 



<sulinary excellenoe is set up, that is unfair all 

Around. 

The hotel keeper of the present day says in ef- 
fect, to his cook, when he- opens his house ; ** Now, 
I can bring plenty of customers to my hotel, but I 

-depend upon you to keep them." And if the cook 
does such good cooking that he does keep them and 

'the house fills up and overflows, he does that which 
makes money for cooks and all concerned. But on 
account of the false standard set up by French 
cookery the mass of cooks never think that kind of 
success a merit, but they ask about another one, 
what has he ever done ? and who hai ever seen his 
work ? They mean has he ever laid an ornamental 
cold iish in a dish on a bed of moss made by color- 
ing butter green and pressing it like vermicelli 
through a seive, or has he ever made a castle out of 
pressed head cheese. These were paying accomp- 
lishments forty years ago, but they are only play 
business now. They are so much more of the French 
system swept away by the ruthless hand of time. . 



not required a French education for their under- 
standing, for there is no more mention of a French 
name or dish or sauce in them than if such a nation 
was not in existence, and, which must seem most 
incomprehensible to French cooks who regard them 
as the very foundation for everything, they do not 
tell how to make espagnole and veloutCj nor even 
mention them ! And still we claim to be a civilized 
people. 



There is an association of French-speaking cooks 
called the Universal Society of Culinary Art, that 
seems to be a sort of international trades union with 
missionary, or perhaps propagandist tendencies, 
that has Jts headquarters , in this country in New 
York and branches in all the principal cities. It 
ought to do good in teaching cookery, and perhaps 
it will. The prospect would be better if there were 
but one such union, but there is another association 
of French cooks in New York beside, and, it seems 
that the two are not in harmony. The leading 
motive of both is, however, the same. Like the 
children in the promised laud, they have spied out 
the United States and found it a goodly land for 
cooks and they are going lorth to possess it and its 
milk and honey. 

Before they can succeed in this laudable enter- 
prise, however, they must learn to speak United 
States when they talk of cooking or eating, .for 
the people of this country positively will not go to 
the trouble of learning French words as a prelimi- 
nary to getting their dinners, when they can have 
as good as they want without. They must not tell 
the domestic cooks who may be their pupils to vanner 
a sauce when they mean to skim until it is bright, 
nor say bardczle when they mean cover it with 
bands of bacon, because these cooks have not gen- 
erally made much progress in their French lessons 
at college. In the early editions of Francatelli the 
directions to daube a piece of meat were very fre- 
quent, but none of the English wanted their meat 
-<fau6«<f, it was a '' nasty " word to them, and ac- 
cordingly in the later editions the word almost en- 
tirely disappeired, and larded has taken its place. 

The domestic cook books of this country that have 
bad the largest sales« reaching to the hundred 
thousand copies, and which have done good, have 



One of the officers of this Universal society, a 
very good friend of the writers, was talking one 
day about this association and its objects. He 
himself is a regularly trained cook. When, a boy, 
he was called upon to choose what trade he would 
follow, he chose to be a coo^, as much as a matter of 
course, as he would have chosen to be a printer or a 
carpenter or a builder or a bookkeeper, for that was 
in Europe. He said they had about four hundred 
members in New York. We replied that four hund- 
red cooks were not many to cook for a million and 
a half of people. He said they they had forty 
members in Chicago. 

We thought that forty were not many in a city of 
six hundred thousand. 

<*But,** he said, *'we are going to train cooks 
enough for all these small hotels and for all the 
private families who can afford to employ them. — 
we shall train them from the beginning — we shal 
teach them to make espagnole and veloute.'* 

One does not naturally continue a subject with a 
friend, on which there can be no possible agree- 
ment, and the conversation was dropped. 

Espagnole and veloute will never be taught to any 
considerable extent in this country, because they 
will never be adopted nor wanted nor understood. 
Ever since the time of Ude, the cook or maitre 
d'hotel of Louis XV,and Bechamel somewhat later, 
and Careme, who cooked for King George, III, the 
French cooks have been trying to teach these two 
sauces to the Anglo-Saxons, and probably not one 
in a hundred thousand persons knows what they 
are to-day. They are, as we have already shown, 
a brown stock sauce and a white one, made by con- 
suming about ten pounds of meat to produce 
a pint. Employers will not have them^ 
They are not wanted. There is extravagance 
enough in dress and furniture and building, but in 
this country extravi^nce does not extend to the 
culinary operations. 

What remains? Well, all the essential part of 
cookery remains under the rubbish. There is an 
excellent hotel system already in existence, but it 
has never been put in a book. There is good cook 
ing going on in thousands of places, but in an indi- 
vidual go-as-you-please sort of way. One cook 
knows a half dozen soups and a dozen entrees and 
another knows the same number that are all differ^ 



82-^ 



THE AUEBICAN COOK. 



ent, and we propose to bring them together These 
eooks who could not follow out French directions 
because they were inpractioable baTe neyertheless 
found something in them. Some dishes haye been 
adopted from the Italians, some from the Germans, 
some from the Mexicans and Spaniards, some from 
the French Creoles, and a great number from 
•*home cooking." A writer in a leading magaxine 
just recently extolled the (rue Maryland cookery as 
being unsu passed in the world, although simplicity 
itself, and the remark might be applied to more 
than one state or section. They will be dis- 
appointed who are looking for a book of entrees 
that will furnish them with a bran new set of 
French names longer and harder than any other 
4)ook CTer had, but, wheneTer in the following 
pages we happen to know what the foreign name of 
any dish used to be we will tell you. There is to 
be no pulling down of the cook's occupation, but a 
building up. But there are many deep rooted 
wrong ideas to be encountered. 



A Friff htfta Example 



Here is a cook who has sent us three of his best 
Sunday bills of fare. He is such a cook as hotel 
keepers are willing to pay fifty or sixty dollars a 
month to. He is perfectly satisfied with himself 
and his bills of fare, and thinks bis hard to beat, 
and the only thing in the world he would be willing 
to learn would be some more French terms, because 
each of bis bills has tweWe entrees and only half 
of them are outfitted with French a las, and then 
the stock gave out and the other fire or six had to 
come out in common English. The entrees are in 
the same number that used to be required to set 
along those extended tables we have referred to, 
and this man does realize that he is behind the 
times, and two or three would be better now. Of 
his twelye entrees four are of the pudding order 
being "Spanish cake with lemon sauce, macaroni 
and cheese, Welsh rarebits, and charlotte of peach- 
es," forgetting that nobody wants them and the 
pastry part of the dinner too. .Then, in all three 
of the bills the entrees are nearly the same oyer 
again. He has what was eyidently noix of yeal ala 
something — one of the stock dishes from Franca- 
telli — changed into "knuckle of yeal," and it is in 
all his bills. Perhaps, when he used to write it 
n9iz the printers boy used to run oter out of breath 
asking what that word was, and the waiters did not 
know how to call it— such is the preposterous n ess 
of the whole business — and has construed it noix — 
nux — knucks — knuckles, and probably thinks that 
is what it is. If he is wrong in any of these par- 
ticulars there is no book and no person to tell him 
and the like of him any better, and for this reason 
we haye taken up our task. 



1162. Common Sense About Entree& 

Entrees seem more intelligible if one has gradu- 
ated from a cooks* college— -when called by their 
other name, made dithet, in contra distinction from 
the plain roasted and boi*ed meats. About all the 
pleasure there is in meat cooking is to be found in 
making the entrees and soups, as they call for taste 
and skill, and there is a certain sort -of delight^ 
such as eyery good workman finds in his occupa- 
tion, in the perfect fit of eyery article of proyision 
to the place where it is wanted, either large or 
small, either prominent or unimportant, to keeff up 
an eyen ayerage in the bill of fare. Thus, when 
you haye good meats or fowU or torkeys in the 
roasts the entrees are but of little consequence, any 
trifles that do not cost much will do, but when the 
plain meats are unattractiye put in the best your 
skill can furnish of made dishes. 



Entrees were so called because they mere the first 
to enter the dining room, according to French 
usage. Then, as now, at small dinners of more or 
less ceremony the entrees took the place that the 
plain roast meats occupy in the hotel dinners. 
Though not with us the leading dishes they are 
yery necessary as a means of making use of many 
pieces of meat and other articles that could not be 
used in other ways. One of the first thoughts, ap- 
parently, that a hotel keeper has in regard to cut- 
ting down the expenses of the table is that he will 
cut off the entrees, but perhaps that is what he ean 
least afford to do. It depends, howeyer, upon 
whether they are made an item of expense or a. 
means of saying by the cook, and whether they 
are really yaluable dishes or only things crowded 
in to make a huge bill of fare. 



1163. Knowled^re of Cookery Requlsite.^ 



These made dishes render life a burden to cooka 
who haye not learned to consider them in a true 
light, they know no reason for them; there is a 
certain lot of padding to be done to fill the bill and 
it seems that the markets are neyer big enough 
and neyer well enough furnished to supply materi- 
als to make entrees; but, on the other hand it seema 
mere pastime when you get the business down to 
the proper focus. Then you find the made dishes 
are the means of saying you trouble with the goods 
you already haye on hand. American hotels are 
the only perfect schools of cookery for that reason. 
There are ladies lecturing in the cities about how 
to choose meat, and telling that the worse parts of 
the animal are the better, but they can neyer giye 
point or meaning to such statements until they ob« 
serve how admirably skillful cookery oonyerts the 
unpromising odds and ends of raw material into 
finished dishes in really good hotels. We may eyea. 



THE AMB&IOAN COOS. 



32& 



make some things thai we know will not be called 
for, merely to keep up the usual number when 
everybody is feasting on some specialty of the day. 
At the same time it is found that among the many 
guests of a hotel there will be a few who will choose 
Tiands that the majority would l}ok upon with 
ETersion. 



1164. Different Tastes to Suit. 



While most people will choose the plain roasts we 
aye known some German merchants and their 
families who never ate any but stewed meats. It 
mattered but little in which of twenty different 
forms the stewed meat appeared so that it ttxu 
stewed. If there was no such entree in the list 
these good customers were depriTcd of their din 
ner. The roast meats are the dearest and stewed 
meats and pot-pies are the cheapest, consequently 
it is a merit to make them good. It is a source of 
pride to a cook because it is a proof of skill, when 
the plain meats are leA alone and the entrees are 
all consumed. We knew an Italian cook once who 
made macaroni in some form almost every day and 
had succeeded in bringing it in great request, and 
the boys, and the steward too, quizzed him about 
eerring so much macaroni because he was Italian. 
But he went to figuring and showed that his deli- 
cious specialty cost the house less than two cents a 
dish, and then we all looked upon his proceeding 
in a different light, for almost all in the house were 
eating it. 



1165. Variety 

The real difference between dishes of the same 
character cannot always be great and it is not neces- 
sary they should be. There is something monotonous 
about writing out a bill of fare every morning and 
a feeling that we are repeating the same words 
week after week never giving the people anything 
new. There is no need to account for it, it simply 
is so as every cook knows who has to tell the stew- 
ard what dishes he is going to make for dinner. 
This is what causes the anxiety to acquire more 
French terms. The real remedy is to learn more 
dishes. Hotel-keepers themselves who do not go 
deeply into the daily routine sometimes question the 
necessity of so Inany changes, but the stewards 
who write the menus — in some hotels where there 
is luncheon, dinner, and five o'clock dinner served, 
three menus in one day — know that there are nev- 
er dishes enough to select from. 

People in private houses who have a salad per- 
haps bat once a week or never except at a party, 
eannot see the use of our having five or six differ. 
ent styles of putting, say a shrimp salad on a dish. 
Bat if they had to serve salads at three meals each 
day, and two or more kinds at each meal they 



would discover in a few weeks that it, would be dif- 
ficult to show up anything to a banquet or parly 
supper that had not already become an old story. 
It is the same in cnltivating many kinds of fruit» 
and flowers. We have peaches, grapes, strawber- 
ries, and they are good enough, and still growers 
go on producing new varieties ; and no matter how 
good and suflBcient one person's residepce may be a 
thousand others will build theirs all some different 
way. ^'Variety is the spice of life." 



But the solid comfort to a cook of knowing alt 
the ways can be better illustrated in this manner r 
When the breakfast meats have been cut and laid 
ready, with the pork chops to be breaded, you have 
two briskets of pork left over and as they will not 
do for roast pork you plan the dinner bill with these 
pieces' for the leading entree, stuffed and rolled. 
When that question is settled and the other made 
dishes are decided upon and the bill of fare as good 
as finished, here begins a game of "ten little In- 
juns*' with your meat. It loses one slice and an- 
other slice until your dinner bill is all broke up> 
again. The breakfast cutlets give out and a cut cr 
two comes off the pork roll until there is not enough 
left to serve in that style, and you conclude to slice 
it and fry in flour and serve with tomato sauce. 
Another portion goes and you have only enough 
left for a meat pie ; the remainder of that brisket 
is called for and the half of what you originally^ 
had will answer only for a brown stew eked out 
with potatoes. Another call and another and at 
last there is barely enough left to serve as season- 
ing for another dish and the bill of fare must be^ 
made all over again. 



1166. Knowincr How Muoh to Prepare. 



It must seem like an aseumption in any case to- 
say in advance how much of any article to be of- 
fered will be ordered and consumed by a given- 
number of people at a hotel table, but still %^^tj 
cook learns by experience to make a very close 
guess. There are scores of contingencies, of course,, 
that throw the calculations out and require "gump- 
tion" in the cook to make allowance for them. 
There is nothing more provocative of disgust witb^ 
the w^iole catering business than to have to begin 
before the meal is half over answering the demands 
with <'it is all out," except the other extreme of 
having all the pans and saucepans left at the end of 
a meal full of fixed up messes that nobody wants 
or ever will want. 

A cook can never learn how to avoid both difli- 
culties without soeing for himself at the end of 
every meal just what has been eaten out clean and 
what has been passed by unnoticed. 

Generally speaking all dishes containing chiokei^ 
in any form, turkey, oysters and eggs will be or-^ 



926 



THE AMERICAJT COOK. 



dered by the hundred dishes when onrries and 
other highly flaTored articles are only oalled for 
by the tens. 

A yery much disappointed cook we once knew 
had made a hundred lobster cutlets as one of his 
entrees for two hundred persons. He was from 
the seashore where he had been used to seeing 
8uch dishes held in great estimation, for people 
often go there with the intention of feasting on 
sea products who ncTcr care for them at home. 
The cook had destroyed a good many lobsters to 
make his flattened croquettes with the lobster claw 
in each one like the bone of a lamb chop and he 
dished them very handsomely with sauce and 
trimmings. But at the end of the dinner there 
had been no more than twelve or fifteen orders 
for his cutlets that had cost him hours of labor, 
and he looked at them as a model maker might 
gaze on a machine that won't work, and shrug- 
ging his shoulders he said, '-Well, I suppose I 
may eat my cutlets myself." He neyer made 
any more. 



1167. How People Order Dinner. 



There is no natural diyision in an American plan 
dinner where Roman punch or an equiyalent for it 
can be introduced, although any sort of form may 
be instituted by mutual consent ; and there is no pro- 
priety in placing the game in the bill of fare any- 
where but in the list of roasts at the top. 

The home coterie at the tables at one end of the 
dining-room, can order their dinners in courses 
from the ordinary hotel bill of fare, if they choose 
to do so, and in as many courses as they please 
without regard to the arrangement of the dishes in 
the menu. It is a matter between themseWes, the 
inside steward and head waiter and does not con- 
cern the carver or the cook, because the dinner 
lasts long enough in any case and when a waiter 
comes for a set of late orders of game it is all the same 
whether it is a party taking game as a subsequent 
course or a new party taking game instead of roast 
beef for their entire dinner. It is not like the 
whole company setting down at once, all reaching 
the Roman punch course at once, and all taking 
game and salad simultaneously 

The hotel is still an inn. 

There is a natural way that people left entirely 
unconstrained order their dinner, which perhaps is 
not to be accounted for, but is instinctive, and the 
vast majority feel the more comfortable in a hotel 
the more easy it is made for them to fall into the 
natural course. Their ways and manners are 
formed elsewhere; the hotel is not to form them 
anew, but to accommodate them in their own pre- 
dilections. It we set out the glass of frozen punch 
in the middle of the dinner for the average trans- 
ient guest, when ioe cream is afterwards offered at 



the finish, there is a great probability that he wi 
remark he has already had ioe cream. There may be 
a laughing in the sleeve somewhere, but no certain- 
ty that the hotel is getting the best of it ; there are 
so many more people than there are hotels, and thef 
have so much more time to prolong the laughter. 

In the natural course people want no "waits" 
between the soup and fish. Where there is a bill of 
fare, they inevitably order these together. Where 
there is no bill and the dinner is " called off*' by 
the waiters, the ''call " should be arranged accord- 
ingly. 

Then they look over the whole bill, and it makes 
no difference where you may have placed the game 
and salads, even at the very bottom, they order 
then whatever they want in the way of meats, 
game, entrees, salads and vegetables all at one 
time. 

As a rule, a person does not call for more than 
one kind of plain meat, and if he takes a slice of 
venison or other game, be will not order beef or 
mutton likewise, as if he should take meat now and 
more meat in another course afterwards, but having 
his one cut he will choose with it one or two of the 
made dishes and one or two or perhaps three irege- 
tables. The exceptions are when one kind serves 
as a relish for another, as when boiled ham or pork 
is ordered to eat with chicken ; and where, again* 
no roast meat at all is ordered but the dinner made 
of some favorite entree, like a bird pie. 

Then there comes a natural pause in the dinner 
and the "wait" between that and the third and 
last division is not annoying to any but business 
men, who have but a few minutes to deyote to-the 
troublesome necessity of dining. 



1168. The Use of Sweet Entrees. 



And that shows the use of having a sweet entree, 
and accounts for the common practice. It seems 
natural to end the dinner with a sweet, yet one half 
the customers of some hotels think they can not 
wait long enough to take the third course, and 
every one has inbred home manners enough not to 
order pudding and pie with his meats, when it is 
that some trifle of a rice cake with jelly or a fruit 
fritter goes right to the spot and answers every re- 
quirement. It is ordered with the meats and other 
entrees, despatched in the last two minutes and the 
merchant is free to hurry back to the store and let 
his clerk go to dinner, while those who live to eat 
take their new set-out of cakes, ice creams and . 
fruits at their leisure. 

We have already remarked that there is a good 
American system already in existence. It only . 
wants pruning and shaping. The *' sweet entree" 
is a part of it, and by diligent search a fair reasom 
why has been found. But one is enough, and no , 
conceivable reason can be addaoed for having taat% 



A 



THE AMB&ICAK COOS. 



32T 



than one at onoe, and there is no reason even for 
that one when it is a dinner of leisure and every 
person will remain to partake of the abundant third 
course, of pastry and pudding/ and creams and 
fruits, cheese and coffee. 



1169. Vegetable Entroes. 

It is stretching the meaning of the word consid- 
erably to speak of entrees of yegetables, yet such 
is the practice, and it must be considered in the 
sense of made dishea of vegetables Then it is per- 
fectly intelligible. 

For vegetables appear in two ways, either plain, 
like ordinary stewed tomatoes, or as garnishes or 
made dishes, like tomatoes stuffed and baked. These 
vegetable garnishes gave names to a number of 
dishes nnJcr (he old style, or would have given 
names if thero had been sufficient common sense in 
them for ordinary people to grasp. Thus, a piece 
of beef or rather meat in a dish with greens around 
it, was beef a la Flamande — that is in Flemish or 
Dutcli style ; with maccaroni around it, it was a la 
Milanaise — or in the style of the people of Milan in 
Italy ; if it had sourkraut it was a V Allemande — 
or German style ; if with dumplings in the dish 
it was a V Anjlaiit or in English style ; if with 
beetSi it was a la Polonaise — in the style of Poland ; 
with stuffed and baked tomatoes around, ii was a la 
Provencale — in the style ot the south of France; 
with a general variety of vegetables in the same 
)ish, like the New England boiled dinner, it was 
a la Jardiniere — the gardener's style ; with the same 
vegetables cut small and mixed together, it was a la 
Macedoine — with a mixed garnish ; and from these 
simples the plan ran on to all sorts of mixed sauces 
and ragouts. They are all out of fashion now. 
These names only held good when the dish was set 
dn the table whole. When a man orders beef on 
one dish and greens on another and puts them to- 
gether he knows he is eating beef and greens, and 
all who sit around the table may know it at a glance, 
but there is no possible way of making them see the 
sense of calling it beef a ta Flamande^ especially as 
they do not know how Flamande should be pro- 
nounced. 

The use of hiving these made dishes of vegeta* 
bles among our entrees is precisely this : Two per- 
sons will order roast goose from the carving stand. 
One likes onions with it and orders baked onions — 
which he finds on the same among the entrees; the 
other does not and eats his portion with spinach or 
peas* 

Sorely there is something comical in the fact that 
all the common cooks and all the domestic cooks 
and housekeepers are setting dishes a la Flamande, 
a V Allemande, a la Provencale and the rest of it on 
their tables every day. and have not the remotest 
suspicion of the fact, while the cooks of the hotels 



who handle the big words without knowing their 
meaning, don't come within a mile of what they^ 
think they are doing. 



It is to be distinctly understood, then, that vege-^ 
table entrees are proper to be made at certain- 
times. Besides those mentioned they are such 
dishes as spinach with poached eggs, stewed mush*^ 
rjoms on toast, asparagus points in crusts, stuffed 
onions, fried cabbage and many more, which help 
in making an intelligible bill of fare and a sensibly 
arranged dinner. 



1170. The Rule of Entrees. 



Highest number needed daily in any hotel, 6. 

Necessary for the smallest hotel, 2. 

1st. A Leading Entree — something to De carved' 
— highly seasoned meats — braised and stuffed rolls 
— fowls stuffed with onions — or intds too dear to be 
served in large portions, as roastij. 

2nd. A Stewed Meat Entree — including fricas- 
sees with borders, and all sorts of meat pies. 

3rd. A Vegetable Entree — including macaroni 
and spaghetti, cheese polenta and beans. 

4th. A Minced Entree — such as minced ham» 
minced veal, brains, croquettes — trifles of various 
sorts to suit peculiar tastes ~fish entrees for Fri- 
day. 

5th. A Sweet Entree, 



Every practical steward and cook well knows- 
that no very ^tnct rule can be closely followed^, 
because of the first necessity of using to good ad- 
vantage the articles of provision that may be on 
hand, yet those who find their daily perplexity in 
composing the dinner bill of fare find it an immense 
assistance to bear such a rule in mind. 



The smallest hotels need two or three entrees, not 
only to make a more excellent dinner, but in order- 
that small quantities of good things, like chicken 
and sweetbreads, may be served in patties and cro*- 
quettes, when .th^y will not make a large dish. 



1171. Ostnazome. 



Another name for it is beef tea ; another is blood 
gravy. 

To come as near as possible to describing a half- 
imaginary substance by showing the real we should 
ay that osmazome is the meaty part of beef tea 
divided from the clear or watery portion. This is 
the essence of meat that we incidentally referred to 
some pages back as having had so much to do with 
the construction of that world's puzzle called 
French cookery. Osmazome is defined in one of 
the old books as a product of the muscular fibre of 
meat, which gives the characteristic flavor of soui> 
and broth, and was formerly supposed to be a def-- 



328 



THE AMS&ICAir COOK. 



4niie rabfltance. The time referred to was when one 
of the old French kings had to be nourished on 
l>eef tea and the royal doctors gave it a Greek name 
•and proclaimed it as a new scientific discoyery for 
fear the common people would begin to snspect that 
<ihe king was like themseWes. The news ft>om the 
palace was not then conyejed to eyerj house by 
«heap newspapers, and the cooks and attendants 
were very proud to haye it to say that His Mijesty 
«nd a few of the most favored courtiers were nour- 
ished with the supreme essence and strength and 
concentrated nutriment of the most ezpensiye meats, 
in short, with osmasome, which was by far too 
-costly for the common people, and a thing which, 
indeed, was not intended for their concern. It is 
to the aged weakness of Louis XIV., thst we owe 
the cordials of spirit and sugar delicately flayored, 
noyeau, orgeat, curacoa, yermouth and many more. 
** For, feeling sometimes the difficulty of living, 
irhich often appears after sixty, they made him a 
-cordial by mixing brandy with sugar and scents — 
the germ of the art of the modern liquorist." In such 
manner doubtless commenced the ezcessiye refine- 
inent of sauces and food essences. New beauties 
«nd new properties were diecoyered in a grayy. 
There was a peculiar fascination in the idea that 
the entire strength of an ox was in the osmasome 
-contained in its carcass, and that it could all be 
veryed up in one bowl of soup. There was the ex- 
ultation of unapproachable superiority in the reflec- 
tion that the commonalty in order to obtain a small 
modicum of the precious substance would have to 
go through the laborious process of eating the ox 
itself, piece by piece. We read that a Canon Chey- 
ier used to keep a padlock on the stock boiler, and, 
that many cooks used to be dismissed for sbstract. 
ing the first soup — the beef tea — and filling up with 
water agaiu, so valuable was it considered. <*For,'' 
•ays our authority, •< it is osmazome which consti- 
tutes the real merit of good soups. It is osmazome 
irhich, passing into a state resembling caramel, 
-gives meat its reddish tinge, which forms the crisp 
t>rown on roasts and which yields a flavor to vanison 
and game. It is derived principally from full- 
grown animals, with reddish or dark flesh ; and it 
is scarcely every found in veal, sucking pigs, pul- 
lets, or even the best fed capons. This explains, 
by the way, why your real connoisseur has always 
in poultry, preferred the dark meat." 

Now, the reader who goes along with us will 
probably learn more of the motives and real merits 
of French cookery than were ever presented to 
bim to see before, for the world never lets any real 
excellence bo forgotten. Coyered up out of sight 
by the royal press and courtly euphemisms we shall 
^nd the first rudiments of good cooking. The 
•cordials and liqueurs have a certain excellence of 
their own, they are nice for old people and sugar- 
•nd'water drinkers, yet if all the fine writers 



should advise all the people fo drink them if they 
wished to show that they were cultured and not too 
stupid to learn French excellences, the people 
would go on taking no notice whatever and drink- 
ing something else precisely as they act in regard 
to the special exaltations and refinements of cook- 
ery. We have to separate the real ft>om the fanei- 
ful. The commonest cook in the common<*st hote^, 
who does the bad cooking that everybody knows is 
bad ; that even common and stupid people under- 
stand is bad— the cook who crowds a lot of all kinds 
of meat into one baking pan and slings it Into a 
warm oven long before it is needed and lets it warm 
up gradually, sees this valuable osmasome trickling 
out of the meat in red drops all over the surfaoe for 
perhaps an hour or more before it becomes hot 
enough to cook the outside and stop it ; and who 
lets these drops of essence run into the pan and 
bake there, and adds to them by constantly thrust- 
ing a fork into the meat and drawing fresh streams, 
is indeed doing a very French way of drawing out 
this supreme essence, but the grand difference Is 
that while the French system allows that meat so 
treated is spoiled and is willing it should be in 
order to obtain the osmazome, which will be 
espagnole when it is flavored and finished, this an* 
learned and unskilled c ok that we are supposing 
will throw the gravy away and serve up the meat ; 
will have spoiled the meat for nothing, and will not 
know that it is spoiled. As we do not value osma- 
zome with the exaggerated estimate of the French 
system and only need a small amount for the gravy 
for our robust people instead of drawing out all he 
can in that careless way he should strive to keep it 
all in the meat, and after he has done his best to 
prevent its oozing out it will be found that enough 
has escaped to make a little commonplace espagnole 
or pan gravy in spit« of all he could do. 



1172. Espagnole— Brown Saiioe. 



We took occasion to remark, some way back, the 
extraordinary esteem in which some dishes were 
held by custome-s of cafes who brought their imag- 
inations to bear to give an exalted character to a 
rather commonplace spread. Here, now, is a story 
gravely told as showing the superlative excellence 
of a great man's cooVery as if it were an art not to 
be compassed by ordinary mortals. 

Many a cook, at the present moment, who sends 
In tenderloin steaks with plenty of natural gravy by 
the hundred a day and receives no special notice 
for it will fail to see why this young fellew should 
be so choked with wonder at the sight that he could 
hardly speak at all. This is the anecdote: 

"The Vicomte de Vaudreuilt when appointed 
charffe tT affaires of France to the Court of St- 
James's, brought over with him a young cook, an 
ekve of the highest schools of the euiwM of Paris. 



THB AXEBXCAJSr COOK. 



829 



This young eolinarj aspirani to fune, shortly after 
hb arriTal in London, obtained permission of his 
master to go and witness the artistio operations of 
that established cordon bleu, Monsienr Mingaj, the 
-cook to Prince Esterhasy, who had been brought up 
vnder the Prince Talleyrand* s famous ekef, Louis, 
«nd preyionsly under that most bleu of all cordons, the 
ipreat Careme. On the eleve'e return, the Vioomte, 
hearing that his cook was in a state of astonish 
meni flrom something he had witnessed in Prince 
Esterhaiy's kitchen, summoned him to his presence, 
«nd said, ' What is this culinary miracle, which I 
hare heard astonishes you, and casts into the shade 
4kll other triumphs of the art?' Yaters follower 
Teplied, * Oh, Monsieur le Vicomte, when I entered 
the aiMtn« at Chandos House it was near the time 
of the prince's luncheon, for which his excellency 
had ordered something which should be Tory sim- 
ple and easily digestible, as he was suffering from 
languor. The chef, Mingay, accordingly cut from 
under a well«hung rump pf beef three slices of 
miet, and rapidly broiling them, he placed the 
•choicest-looking in the middle of a hot dish, and 
afterward preening the juice completely out of the 
Temaining two, he poured it on the first! Oh, 
monsieur, how great the prince I how great the 
-oookl*" 



To couch so simple an affiiir, in such marrelous 
language, seems extremely silly unless we remem- 
her that those were the days of what we haye Ten- 
tured to term the worship of the grayy. Howeyer, 
we commend anew this old anecdote to those chefs 
who discourage the broiler by calling him *'onIy a 
broil and fry cook.'* We haye at hand a letter just 
written by a trayeler in the southern states in 
which he says dolefully that a good beefsteak can 
not be had south of Mason and Dixon's line. Prob. 
ably he should haye excepted a few of the hotels, 
but if it be all true the false notions about what 
constitutes good cooking are to blame for it. The 
French cooks do not think it their mission to teach 
how to cook the beefsteaks that the whole nation 
wants, but to teach espagnole and veUnUe^kU^ dishes 
u la moonshine. 



The filet a la Chateaubriand is yery much like the 
Prince's beefsteak, aboye described, it being either 
a thick steak for one or two, or a whole tenderloin 
for a party, cooked inside of the two other steaks, 
the grayy from which is pressed and poured oyer 
the fillet. There are seasonings and other addi- 
tions, but that brings us to espagnole. It was the 
meat grayy that made such a dish yaluable and does 
80 yet. It was the imaginary excellence of the 
grayy that made it a wonder and the wonder has 
passed away. 

It makes but little difference how the grayy or 
meat essence may be obtained. If you broil a few 



small but thick beefsteaks rare done and pile them 
on a warm dish the blood grayy will run in the 
dish, perhaps a oupfUl. But, considering that 
rather insipid you manage to add to it a flaTor of 
soup Tegetables by adding them and some water 
and boiling until the water has all eyaporated and 
you strain off the espagnole. That is the original 
pure article as lattre, the great* French lexico- 
grapher, defines it, but the cooks haye gone a little 
further and improyed the flayor with the sayor of 
roast meat. The same grayy as that from your dish 
of steak is obtained as beef tea in a bottle. Tou cut 
or chop some lean beef, put it in a bottle without 
any liquid added, set the bottle in a saucepan of 
cold water oyer the fire and let it heat up gradually. 
In an hour you can pour out the cupful of beef tea, 
the Juice of the meat ; rich but insipid and needs 
yegetables and seasonings to make a sauce of it. 

These are illustrations of the result |p be arriyed 
at, but the real way, on a large scale, as directed 
by Groffe, Francatelli and the others is to put the 
yegetables and other seasonings in with the meat in 
a saucepan with butter spread on the bottom and 
the kinds of meat selected for their fitness, draw- 
ing the grayy by slow heat — much as we haye 
described as yery bad roasting of our home cooks — 
allowing the grayy so drawn to become light brown 
on the bottom, then pouring off the butter and fat 
from the meat and putting in broth instead, and 
when the grayy (or glase as it has then become) 
has dissolyed thickening it with flour baked brown 
in butter, straining, simmering and skimming it 
until bright and yeWety in appearance. That is 
the espagnole of the books. Put a dozen ladleftila 
in a doien different saucepans and odd different 
articles to each and yon haye a dosen different 
sauces and ragouts. 



This has all been done in a saucepan on top of 
the ire because in past times there were no such 
ranges as we use at present and the baking pans 
with their [nicely roased meats were not there to 
work with. But the eyident richness of the grayy 
that is found on the bottom of the pan in which a 
lot of turkeys or chickens haye been roasted to per- 
fection has forced that kind of sauce into use 
through the mere operation of common sense and 
we wish to say in the plainest language possible, 
for the benefit of those who need to be benefited 
by the assurance that (his pan grayy is to nil intents 
and purposes and in all essential respects the same 
thing as espagnole. We mean not only firom 'the 
pans of poultry, but of all roast meats, although 
beef well roasted will furnish the least. The differ- 
ences of the ways of proceeding arise from the old 
ways being intended for saucepan cooking and open 
roasting fires, and the new way being for closed 
ranges. It is obseryable that all the cooks now 
who put their directions in print, acknowledge thin 



»30 



THE AKE&ICAJT COOK. 



put graTy as brown sanoe; and we know for a fact 
that etpoffnoU, as it nsed to be, is made in but very 
few places. There can be a most detestable article 
made and nsed as brown sauce and so also there is 
often a most execrable etpagnoU, scorched and Tile ; 
it is a matter of intelligence and skill in both cases. 
Some kinds of meat make a light reddish and pleas- 
ant looking brown sauce, other kinds are dark and 
dull. In order to insure a rich sauce put in some 
shanks of Teal and other trimmings to cook slowly 
in the pan before it is time for the roasts to go in, 
and after the roasts oome out use soup stock that 
has Tegetable seasonings in it to make the grayy or 
brown sauce with, instead of putting in water. 
The full and particular directions haye been already 
giTen in the different articles on ** How to Roast 
Meats." Read Kos. 1022, 1062 and 1068. 



1173. Blond— Veloate— White Sauoe. 

It is not necessary to add much to what is already 
written to make this plain to any comprehension. 
We haTO instanced beef tea or grayy for brown 
sauce and other meats are added to giro color and 
richness, such as yeal and wild rabbits. But it 
' was noticed that fowls and yeal yielded a natural 
grayy that had no color and their extract flayored 
in the boiling was thickened with a mixture of flour 
and butter not browned and that was and is velouU, 
In common practice take the broth in which chick- 
• ens haye been boiled, add to it a shank of yeal and 
celery and other soup yegetables and boil down 
until it is condensed and rich, thicken, not too 
much ; strain, simmer and skim it and that is white 
sauoe. Boil down thicker yet, then add boiling 
cream to bring it to its former consistency again 
and a little butter, and that is Bechamel— named 
for a noted cook. These haye also been giyen plain 
directions in f jrmer articles. 



1174. Soup Making. 

The operation of hotel soup making has a good 
deal of similarity to that pleasing trick of parlor 
magic in which a dosen empty glasses are placed 
ready, and out of the same bottle the operator pours 
into ene of them red wine, into another white, an- 
other brandy or ale, another milk and so forth ; 
the changes of color being caused by the different 
chemicals the glasses haye been rinsed with pre- 
yiously, and other chemicals contained in the bottle. 
In making the daily soups the stock boiler is our 
bottle, and the soup pots with their different oon* 
tents the glasses. 



1176. Clear Soup& 

There are two diyisions in which soups are 
classed, the thick soups or potages and tbe thin 
clear soups or consommes. In some hoteh one of 
eaoh^ class appears at eyery dinner. You can make 



as many clear soups as yon can full soups and of 
the same material. There can be a turtle soup 
almost like grayy and again a clear turtle which 
you can see the bottom of the tureen through, it is 
so transparent, although rich, and eyery square- 
cut piece of meat and turtle egg shows clean and 
distinct You can make a green pea soup thick as 
cream, and also again make a clear consomme with 
green peas in it whole, that neither settle to the 
bottom nor float on top because the consomme, al- 
though clear as oil, is rich and dense. 8o you can 
haye these clear soups with rice in whole grains, or 
tapioca, barley, yermicelii, macaroni, alphabet 
pastes, yegetables cut In shapes, asparagus points, 
cauliflower in little flowrels, and custards both 
white and yellow, also small quenelles or meat- 
balls, always in small proportions, and it is not 
much out of the way to compare them in appear- 
ance to gold fish in a globe of fresh water, because 
in these consommes there must be no crumbs and 
specks, each article being cooked separately and 
washed free from flour and scraps before being put 
into the clear finished consomme. These clear 
soups may also be of different colors, such as green 
colored with spinach juice, brown or amber with 
the color from roasted fowls, or clear white, or beet 
juice pink. Howeyer the amber or brandy oolor is- 
the best. 



1176. Full Soups. 

It helps, when the daily question comes np,. 
*• What kind of soup shall we haye ? " to haye a list 
of the different yarieties in mind like this : 

1. Grayy soups — brown meat soups, such asbeef» 
ox- tail, mock turtle, mulligatawney, etc. 

2. X^ream soups, such as French cream, oream of 
barley, etc. 

8. Puree soups — many different sorts made by 
thickening with a paste of something pounded 
through a strainer, from puree of partridge or 
chicken to puree of potatoes or beans. 

4. Fish soups for Fridays. 

6. Vegetable soups -yariations of all the others* 
like chicken with cauliflower, and Scotch broth 
with mutton in dice and barley, etc. 

All these yarieties of soup are made out of the 
same stock, generally, but in the best fixed estab- 
lishments there will be two boilers of stock, one 
with the meats rich in osmasome — (he beef tea 
kinds — the other with the white meats. The im. 
practicables tell us to purchase seyeral different 
kinds of meat suitable for the different yarieties of 
soup, as might be proper if there were but one din- 
ner to be prepared, but as in eyery place where 
cooking goes on constantly there must always be a. 
large amount of soup material on hand, instead of 
choosing the kinds of meat we choose which are 
the most suitable soups to make at the moment. 
When the stock is mostly of beef make the grayy 



THX AMEBICAN COOK. 



331 



Boups. When Teal predominates make yeal soupe, 
fish soaps and mock turtle. Sometimes, once a 
week perhaps, there will be an excess of lamb and 
mutton ; then keep out all the fat possible and 
make barley, turnip, tomato and vegetable soups 
and Scotch broth, for all of these are best made 
with a portion of mutton in the stock. 

And when there is but little soup material of any 
sort on hand and the stock is not rich is the day to 
make a cream soup or one of oysters or clams that 
takes milk instead of stock. 



1178. The Stook Boiler. 

It is an object to have plenty of stock and plenty 
of room in the stock boilers to make it, and also to 
be careful with it, not to make more soup than is 
needed, because instead of throwing away the large 
quantity it should be condensed to greater richness, 
and whatcTor stock can be sayed from the soup is 
wanted to be boiled down to put into the grayy pan 
instead of water to make the rich espagnole that 
French cookery sets so much ya^ue upon — the beef 
stock for that, the chicken and yeal stock for the 
white sauce. Tou may not haye use for more than 
a quart of sauce of those kinds, yet it will take 
three or four quarts of stock to boil down to make 
it of the best quality. 

It is against all the science of cookery to let the 
Btock boiler be in too hot a place and boil hard. 
That is the objection brought against the steam stock 
boilers in some places ; the cooks say they can not 
regulate them and the stock goes on at a gallop* 
French authorities say the stock should only 
** smile " — ^meaning to simmer gently. Some of the 
largest public establishments haye two regular stock 
boilers, steam-heated, that hold from 80 to 100 gal- 
lons each and another one or two of about 60 gal- 
lons for boiliug chickens and turkeys, hams, corned 
beef, and tongues. Commonly the rule is that there 
must be thirty gallons of room in the stock boiler 
for eyery fifty persons a house entertains. Room 
for the soup material and the water ; room for the 
false bottom that holds the meat up from burning, 
and room to prevent boiling oyer. Thirty gallons 
is about the size of a flour barrel ; forty>five gallons 
is the capacity of a whisky barrel. In a house that 
entertains 200 people the moyeable stock boiler that 
has to be set on top of the range becomes a rather 
troublesome affair. It is seldom large enough for 
true economy. If made of galvanized iron, double 
bound, it lasts but a few months. The only durable 
kind is made of thick copper and they take two 
men to handle them. Generally there has to be two 
and it requires considerable good management to 
keep them from monopolizing the top of the range 
mt the wrong times. 

1179. Manairexnent. 
Setting on the stock boiler comes immediately 



after the meat cutting and th*' pieces and soup 
bones should not have to lie over till the next day 
to lose their befit flavor through exposure and dry- 
ing. Drop them Aresh cut into the clean boiler and 
fill up with cold water, remembering always that 
cold water draws out the juices of meat to enrich 
soups and stews and hot water seals up the meat 
and shuts them in. Read directions about the soap 
material at No. 992— page 262. Set the boiler on 
the range to heat up gradually. If a large one and 
full it will be slow enough to reach a boil no matter 
on what part of the range it is placed. Skim it aa 
soon as the boiling begins. 

The best flavored soup is that for which the stook 
simmers only six hours. There may be a pleasant 
tasted bouillon or beef broth taken off when it has 
cooked only one hour, but not much of the nutri* 
ment is then obtained, and again a sort of meat 
porridge after twelve hours' boiling when every* 
thing is dissolved but the bones, but this is only » 
cheap and nutritious food and has no delicacy of 
taste left. Six hours' slow boiling, as above 
remarked, is a good rule to go by. Then there is » 
difliculty to be met. If you set the boiler on in the 
afternoon, it simmers along until after supper and 
the fire is allowed to go out, the boiler remains 
there [warm possibly for ten hours or eight or at 
any rate six, before the fire again raises it to a heat 
that prevents spoiling. In that lukewarm conditioa 
it is very likely to acquire a bad taste that even the 
French name that you will give the soup next day 
will not quite cure. 

Beside that, the meaty particles settle to the bot- 
tom when the boiling ceases and by the time the 
fire is made in the morning there is a compact coat- 
ing that is extremely liable to bum sooner than the 
stock will boil. 

These things can be prevented, but it is the care 
and watchfulness required that makes really good 
cooks so scarce. Still, certain times and rules may 
be established in the kitchen by observing which 
even the most heedless helper may do all that is 
required. 

Where there is night cooking going on or a night 
watch, it is a simple matter to take the boiler off the 
range when it has boiled long enough, or, what is 
better, to draw off the stock at the faucet, having 
first taken off the two quarts or two gallons — as the 
case may be — of clear fat from the top, and letting 
it cool and settle in the new vessel. 

But where there is no such night attendance the 
way is to set the boiler on late enough so that it 
wi I not much more than boil before the fire is done 
with ; then, instead of letting the fire out keep a 
slow one with coal dust to maintain the simmering 
heat for several hours. 

In the morning before the fire is started, if you 
draw off the clear stock at the faucet near the bot- 
tom of the boiler, you will see what is meant by 



332 



THB AXSaiOAX COOK. 



oleur eoruomme ; it will be almost dear enough for 
ordinary clear Beupe as it is, and will be more or 
less like melted Jelly in appearance according to 
the degree of richness. When half of it has been 
drawn off and the gravy portion begins to show 
take another pan or boiler to hold it for making the 
fltronf; soap and brown sauce— bat make both lots 
hot as soon as possible, if you oan not make them 
ice cold instead, for fear of souring. 

It is a rule, then, that whoerer builds the fire in 
the range in the morning must first draw off the 
stock and take down the boiler. 

As another precaution against spoiled stock aToid 
putting into the boiler any essence of meat or 
chicken broth or anything else that has salt in it, 
because salt starts fermentation as soon as the 
temperature is right. 

It is one of the hard conditions of liying in this 
mean world that there can be no real excellence 
without labor either of hands or head or both. 
When you read of a great cook who gets three 
thousand dollars a year and apparently (according 
to the favorite way of telling it) does nothing but 
wear a gold watch and draw his salary, you may 
be sure that in reality he is going around establish- 
ing rules for preventing things going wrong and 
seeing to it that the rules are observed, and the 
same sort of capable man in a lesser position avoids 
the mishaps by attending to the precautions himself. 

A cook receives half his salary for making every 
article good and the other half for preventing any« 
thing from ever going to the table bad ; some can 
not or don't want to be efficient in both directions, 
consequently they never get above half pay 



1180. Ck>od Soups. 



A few months ago the writer stopped at a hotel 
one day for dinner, and at the same table there 
was a little party of three who had been in the 
house probably a week or two. 

*<}ne of the ladies was immensely amused at some- 
thing. In a half aside she said to her neighbor : 
-« Why. it's only hash ! " 

<'0h," expostulated the elder lady, <*youshould*jit 
order those things, they always turn out that 



va 



*> 



"How strange,''— said the other; *'the bill of 
fare gives it such a grand name— see, a la Mont- 
morenei, I thought it was something good." 

" There is one thing to be said for this house,"— 
the other replied — " you can always depend upon 
the soups. I had never imagined that they could 
be made so enjoyable." 

The reputation of the table was saved in that 
instance by the soup when a la Montmorenei had 
nearly ruined it. 

Evarybody takes soup. The exceptions are so 
few a not to be worth counting. The motive for 



having two soups at once Is to suit aU tastes, for 
some oan not indulge in the rich gpravy scape with 
impunity, and they take the light consomme ; others 
olject to cream soups and purees that they take 
away the appetite for dinner, and others again dis- 
like tomato soups or other special kinds and they 
take the alternative of the consomme with peas or 
rice. 

To follow np the refinements of soup-making, 
however, takes np lots of time. A cook who knows 
what he is trying to do can stand an hour over the 
soup-boiler, clarifying, skimming and improving it, 
and one soup is all that can be attended to in most 
of the busy kitchens. It is found that if that one 
soup is made good invariably not only do most of 
the special aversions gradually fade away, but 
many people pay it the silent compliment of making 
a dinner of soup and only one more oourse, it may 
be fish, or an entree, or pastry, but soup always. 

Although in favor of two soups each day where 
it can be compassed we give but oneat a time in the 
following examples, the different kinds alternating 
so as to be suitable to put two days together. 

The wonderful increase in the common affection 
for the tomato flavor has to be recognized in the 
fullest degree. It seems singular that a vegetable 
which was, in the memory of some still living 
regarded as poisonous and grown only for an orna- 
ment, should have become of the first importance, 
although still an object of dislike to many. Cooks 
should take care to treat it only as a flavoring as 
they would some herbs, and not use it in more than 
one dish each meal and it need not then be offen- 
sive to any, while they may be pleased who like it 
in sauces, in clam chowder, and even in tortU 
cup. ^ 



First Day. 

Green 7\trtU Soup. 



Larded Fillet of Beef, 
Potted Breast of Chicken in Form. 
Stewed Muskroomt in Orouitades. 
Blanquetie of Sweethreade and Oyiten^ 
Cream Frittertj glazed. 

118L Green Turtle Souik 

Any tolerably good cook now can make a meat 
soup of beef and veal and add canned turtle to it, 
with wine and lemon and he makes a turtle soup 
that is good in a general way without being quite 
the proper thing. It is doubtful, however, whether 
any one ever made the genuine old aldermaaio 
green turtle soup by directions alone without ex- 
ample. 

It is called so' because made of the green sea 
turtle, but it has also a green tinge imparted by the 
** puree of turtle herbs" and the use of these and 
the different oooking of different parts of the tmilSi 



THE ASCBBICAJr OOOX. 



333 



the preparation of flonr thickening and the quenelle 
making all take np six or eight different saucepans 
and make the matter hopelessly obscure without a 
plentiful sprinkling of the reasons why. 

The green tinge can not be insisted on, and indeed 
is rarely seen because, of the herbs, sweet basil is 
practically unknown in this country and thyme, 
maijoram and savory are to be obtained by the 
many only in their dry state. However, a large 
proportion of parsley can be used, a small amount 
of green chiyes and green onions and very young 
celery leaves just raised from the seed. 

Every cook should know that when these are but 
just dipped in boiling water they turn to a deep 
green, but if long cooked they lose their green color. 
That is the sense of some of the complex instruc- 
tions. Ude was so particular he picked all the little 
leaves off the herbs to be scalded and pounded for 
coloring at last and boiled the stalks alone in the 
soup for flavor. Sweet basil has the flavor of oloYes 
and that spice is the substitute for it. 

There are four kinds of meat in a turtle, and the 
^ns furnish another, and, beside the desire to give 
to each plate a sample of each kind, they cook in 
-different lengths of time — ^the fat in half an hour 
— the Boft white meat in an hour ; the coarse meat 
and fins in two or three hours, the shells and bones 
in six hours, and the skillful preparation of the 
soup requires that none of the parts that go in the 
plates be "boiled to rags/* but all neat and trim. 
Hence the cooking different parts in different yes- 
sels, each with some seasonings, and bringing all 
the parts, liquors and all into the one soup at last. 
A cook who is crowded for time and range room if 
he knows the object of certain proceedings can 
often take a short-cut to reach the same result with 
half the trouble, precisely as in cooking a mixed 
lot of fowls you put the hardest to cook at the bot- 
tom and the chickens at top where they can be taken 
out as soon as done and kept on a dish until the 
others are finished. 

Turtle soup is expected to be a plate full and as 
thick with meat and quenelles (or turtle eggs) as an 
oyster stew is with oysters. Some of the noted 
turtle soup makers persist in calling the soup itself 
the sauce, regarding the pieces of meat as the prin- 
pal part. 

Probably a good many oooks have met with the 
remark that "it is no longer the fashion to put 
quenelles or egg balls in turtle soup,*' but they 
should not take any notice of it. A noted oeok 
wrote that along with his directions a hundred 
years ago and a thousand ** made-up " cook books 
have copied both the directions and the remark 
since then ; but meantime the fashions have been 
changing back and forth and egg balls are very 
much in fashion now if the oook has only the time 
■and the skill to make them. 



For soup for fifty persons you require : 
A 50-pound turtle. 

6 gallons of soup-stock — about 2 pails* 
4 onions — J pound. 

1 teaspoonful whole doves. 
Same of allspice. 

2 blades of mace. 
2 bay leaves. 

Herbs, either green or dry. 
1 pound of slices of raw ham. 

1 pound of fresh butter — 2 cups. 
12 ounces of flour — 3 cups. 
Salt, pepper and cayenne. 

2 lemons. 

1 pint of Madeira. 

It is expected to make three gallons of soup after 
reduction by boiling. 

The turtle will have been cut up the night before^ 
(see No. 1017) the meat laid on dishes, the fat in 
ice water in the refrigerator, and the shells in 
pieces. Peel off the horny covering that has been 
loosened by the previous scalding. 

The stock will have been prepared also in the 
usual way over night with care that it contains 
only beef, veal and fowl for the ingredients. 

Very early in the morning draw off the stock 
ft>om the faucet clear — the fat will not come, but 
remains higher up in the boiler. Put the turtle 
shells at the bottom of a clean boiler, cover with 
the clear stock, boil, skim off all that rises, and' 
then lay in the pieces of turtle meat. Let simmer 
a good while at the side of the range with the lid 
on. Take out the glutinous parts first and the 
others 'as they become tender. If in haste, you 
will have to put them in ice water in order to get the 
meat separated from the bone — but perhaps you can 
let them cool on dishes in the refrigerator. Gut all 
the cooked turtle meat you have obtained into neat 
squares and keep it ready for the finish, but put 
the bones and head back in the boiler to make the 
soup richer, and at the same time put in the season- 
ings, that is, one of the onions, all the spices, the 
peel of half a lemon, a little black pepper, and if 
you have no green herbs but parsley you can put 
in a small teaspoonftil each of powdered thyme and 
savory and keep the parsley for greening at last. 

Along in the middle of the morning or two hours 
before dinner, prepare the flavored thickening in 
this way: Cover the bottom of a large saucepan 
with the slices of .raw ham, put in a pound of 
butter and then three or four onions cut in slices, 
and let them stew in the butter with the lid on. In 
a short time they cease stewing and begin to try 
which must be immediately stopped—put the flonr 
in, stir all up and either set the saucepan a short 
time in the oven with the door open or let oook on 
the top with care not to let the flour get more than 
a Tery pale color. When that is done dip soma 
soup into it, stirring it smooth, until the sanoepvi 



334 



THE AMB&ICAN COOK. 



18 full when the whole mixture of ham, onions, bnt- 
ter.liaked flour and soup may all be turned back 
into the boiler to save room and the use of so many 
Teasels, there to continue boiling'gently for half an 
honr. Then strain the soup through a fine strainer 
into the regular soup pot, let it simmer and the but- 
ter will rise and can be skimmed off. Put in the 
Juice of a lemon with a spoon Ail of cold water and 
scum will rise and can be skimmed off, making the 
soap bright. Add the salt, little ci^enne and then 
the turtle meat and green tat (if any when a larger 
sized turtle is used) already cut in inch squares. 
Scald and pound the green herbs already mentioned 
through a seive and add them for greening, but if it 
can not be green make the soup^a rich brown in- 
stead. Add the juice of another lemon and the 
wine in the tureen. 

The turtle eggs, if any, should be stewed separ. 
ately in a little soup and added last. £gg balls for 
a substitute can be made either with hard-boiled 
yolks pounded with a raw yolk to bind them, or 
with any kind of white meat pounded and mixed 
with yolks, and can have parsley mixed with them 
enough to make them green — all matters of Individ, 
ual fancy. So also are the additions to the soup of 
a pinch of curry powder, a spoonful of anchoTy 
sauce or minced lemon peel or mushroom liquor. 
They are not essential and had better be left out. 



Live turtles range in price from 8 to 20 or 25 
cents per pound. The clear meat in them is but a 
small proportion of the gross weight. 

1182. Larded FiUet of Beef. 

Having taking out the fillet as shown at No. 989i 
shaTe down the suet so that there will be a coyering 
of it about as thick as a steak left on the meat- 
Then raise the edge of the fat, separate it from the 
fillet and lay it oyer without detaching the other 
edge, so that it will be ready to cover the fillet with 
again after the larding is done. The skin of the 
upper surface should be raised along with the fat 
and should be scored across to prevent drawing up 
in the oven. 

Prepare half a pound of strips ef fat bacon or 
pork. The pork is better because milder if a piece 
firm enough to bear inserting can be found. Cut 
in slices, then in strips, about half a finger's length, 
a little thinner than a common pencil, all alike in 
thickness and with one end slightly tapered to enter 
the larding needle easily. Roll them in white pep- 
per and salt. Commence at the thick end with the 
larding. Insert a strip of bacon in the end of the 
larding needle, using another needle to assist, and 
draw it through the top part of the meat pinched 
up for the -purpose. One end of each strip so in- 
serted will be left leaning backward and the other 
forward on the surface. Insert six or more in an 
even row across. One inch forward insert another 



row, so alternating that the ends will fall betweoa. 
those of the first row. Keep on till near the end. 
Cut off the thinnest part of the fillet. 

Cover the larded fillet with the sheet of ht^ 
Make a long and narrow baking pan hot in the ovea 
with a tablespoonftil of salt and ladleful of drip- 
pings and water enough to keep the pan ft^m 
burning. Put in also a slice of turnip, carrot and 
onion and stalk of celery and the meat scraps 
trimmed from the fillet. Have the oven hot, put in 
the fillet and roast with the fat covering it half an 
hour. Then take of the fat, baste the fillet with the 
contents of the pan and allow about fifteen minutes 
more for the larding to brown handsomely while 
you baste it several times, causing a glossy surface 
to dry upon it. A gravy will flow from the fillet 
quite copiously when it is cut, which should be 
mixed with the made sauce at the time of serving. 

To make the sauce let all the remaining moistnre 
dry out of the pan, so that the clear grease can be 
poured off without the gravy, which will be found 
sticking to the pan. Add a ladleful of stock and 
liquor from a can of mushrooms. Boil up, thicken 
slightly, strain into a saucepan, boil and skim, and 
then add a little wine and cayenne. 

Carve in small slices laid well up to one end of 
the individual dish with a spoonful of sauce at the 
other ; or, for a larcce dish send it in entire, with a 
border of the finest button mushrooms obtainable, 
made hot in the sauce. 



1183. Potted Breast of Ohioken in Form. 

Avail yourself of the fancy shapes of stamped 
tin patty pans for individual entrees of a delicate- 
sort. The oval or long diamond form with scolloped 
sides are the best, but any sort from a plain muffin, 
ring up will do, if small. 

Provide 24 of these small molds. 

4 large chickens. 

1} cupfuls of bread panada. 

i cupful of butter. 

} cupful minced salt pork. 

2 whites of eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of minced parsley. 

White pepper or cayenne, salt, nutmeg. 

1 pint of cream sauce. 

} cupful finest green peas. 
Tender chickens only can be used this way. Take 
off the breasts raw with a small knife. Divide each 
side inte three, the small fillet that lies next the 
breast bone makes one, the larger part of the breast 
split lengthwise makes two more. Each chicken fur~ 
nishes, therefore, six of these bands of white meat. 
When they are trimmed along the edges and free 
from skin and sinew butter the small molds and lay 
a fillet smooth side down in each and keep them 
cold until the forcemeat is ready. 
Boil the remaining parts of the chickens abeut vk 



THE AKSBIOAJT COOK. 



335 



hour, pick off all the meat free from skin and except 
anj that may be yery dark, mince it fine and then 
pound it to a paste. Add the panada (No. 962), 
the seasoning of minced pork and half the butter 
and the parsley, and white of eggs whisked light, 
and salt and pepper. Poand all together. 

Then fill the prepared molds with the forcemeat, 
placing a little on each side of the breast of chicken 
at first carefully, not to let the meat be pushed 
from the center, press in well and leyel off. Steam 
in the yegetable steamers or bake, set in a pan of 
water about half an hour. Turn them out as they 
are ordered, fresh and with the juice that will hate 
formed upon them. Pour a spoonful of smooth 
cream sauce around and sprinkle a dosen green 
peas with a fork, for ornament. 



1184. Stewed MushrooxnB In Orou« 

stcules. 

Empty a can of small button mushrooms without 
the liquor into a bright saucepan with an ounce of 
butter and let them become hot. Throw in a tea- 
spoonful of minced parsley and add a few spoonfuls 
of the sauce from the fillet of beef. Cut ten slice" 
of bread with a scollop cutter in oval shape to fit 
the small dishes, and half an inch thick, and mark 
the shape of a lid around with a knife point, not 
cutting through. Fry light colored and drain. 
Lift out the lid piece and as they are called for 
serve a spoonful of the mushrooms and sauce in 
each croustade. The piece removed need not be 
replaced. Let there be sauce enough for a spoon- 
ful in the dish to moisten the crust. 



1185. Blanquette of Sweetbreads and 

Oysters. 

4 calves' sweetbreads. 

2 dozen oysters. 

1 pint cream sauce. 

Lemon juice, cayenne, salt. 

Mashed potato borders. 
Boil the sweetbreads until tender, in water, sea- 
soned with salt, pepper and vinegar. • Take them 
up, trim and cut in neat squares like large dice. 
Put the oysters in a deep strainer and dip them in 
the sweetbread liquor one minute to shrink -them, 
turn on to a plate and cut them in halves Mix 
sweetbreads and oysters together by shaking in a 
small saucepan with a squeeze of lemon and dust of 
Cayenne and cover with boiling cream sauce just be- 
fore wanted. Form rings of mashed potato on the 
dishes with a cornet and secve the white fricassee 
piled m the center. The sauce should salt the whole. 
Tou can form a thin potato border handsomely with 
the cheese scoop that they gouge out a pineapple 
cheese with. Blanquette is from Vane, white, like 
blanch and blank, and means a white dish. 



1186. Cream Fritters. 



Galled beigneU de bouilUe by the French, and 
bouUlu (not bouilli) means pap or baby food. We 
can not help it, however, if the grown people cry 
for them, glazed with transparent wine sauce. 
The English have a better name, which is palm tree 
padding, in allusion perhaps to the appearance of 
a number of the spike shaped pieces arranged in 
order in a dish when all is served at once. * 

It is a sort of sliced custard breaded and firied, 
made of 

1 quart of milk. 

6 ounces of sugar. 

6 ounces of mixed oom starch and flour. 

7 yolks of eggs. 

2 ounces of butter. 
Flavoring. Salt. 

Boil the milk with the batter and salt in it. Mix 
the sugar in the starch and flour dry and dredge 
and beat them into the boiling milk. Let it cook 
slowly at the side of the range about ten minates. 
Stir in the yolks of eggs and take it off. Flavor 
with lemon, cinnamon, nutmeg or vanilla and let it 
get cold in a buttered pan. Roll the slices in egg, 
then in cracker meal, fry in lard, serve warm with 
the sauce No. 490, made thick enough not to run 
off, and simmered until it has become quite trans- 
parent. 



Study of Notable Menus. 

Banquet given in London complimentary to a 
popular tragedian, July, 1888. Covers laid for 620 
guests. The words in quotation marks are bat 
allusions to certain plays. 

MENU. 

POTAQES. 

Tortus Claire a la *' Rialto.'* 
Bisque a la ** Prince de Danemark/* 

POISSONS. 

Saumon d' Ecosse. 
Filets de Soles, sauce " Matthias." 

ENTREES. 

Mazarine de Volaille a la *' Courier de Lyon.'* 
Chaudfroid de Cailles a la '* Richelieu." 

RBLEYES 

Quartier d'Agneau. 
Aloyaa de Bceuf. Selle de Mouton. 

REMOVES. 

Poalardes Bardees. Caneton auz Cressons. 

Salade a la '* Doricourt," 

ENTREMETS. 

Mayonnaise de Homard. 

Tartelettes de Peches. 

Creme a la *' Bon Voyage." 

Qelee ala "Benedick." Gateaux <<Freres de Corse;** 

Pouding Qlace. 

DESSERT. 



336 



THB AUEBICAN COOS. 



TRANSLATION. 

Soups.— Clear turtU (No. 1187) —Bisques are 
soups thick with a paste of fish or birds and ohoice 
morsels of the ipeat. 

FiSHss.— Scotch salmon, as in this country we 
say Kenftebeo or California salmon— Fillets of soles 

with a sauce (No. 967). 

Entrbks.— Maiarine of fowl— same sort of article 
as No. 1188. probably large form— Chaudfroid of 
quails. No. 1191 is a chaudfroid, but we have no 
such word ; styles of putting up yarious. 

Rblbvm.— Quarter of lamb— Sirloin of beef- 
Saddle of mutton. 

Rbmovbs.— Chickens roasted in bands of bacon 
like No. 1065— young ducks with cress (No. 1072) 

—Salad. 

Entbembts;— Lobster in mayonnaise (No. 746)— 
Peach tartlets (No. 72)— Cream (No. 180)— Jelly 
(No, 208)— Cakes, Iced pudding (No. 127). 

The banquet was serred by a catering firm. The 
floral decorations were elaborate and the affiur was 
a pronounced success. 



Second Day. 

CUar Turtle Soup, 



Lamb eutUU toith vegeiabler 
PotUd pigeons with jeUy, 
Stuffed tomatoes. 
Minced quaiL in border. 



1187. Clear Turtle Soup. 

A 40-pouud turtle — or selected meat kept over 

from a larger one of a proTioiis day. 
4 gallons of soup stock. 
2 onions. 

1 can of mushrooms. 

A bunch of chives and parsley— good handftil. 
1 teaspoonful of whole cloTes. 
1 bay leaf, a blade of maoe. 
1 pound raw ham. 

1 pound of raw beef. 
Salt and cayenne. 

8 whites of eggs. 

2 lemons. 

1 cupful Madeira. 

It is expected to make 2 gallons of soup after 
leduction by boiling and clearing. 

Have a good rich stock ready prepared, draw it 
«ff clear and without grease. 

Lay the slices of ham on the bottom of a clean 
boi'er, place the turtle shells on that and coyer 
them with the stock. Boil snd skim off, then put 
in the turtle meat and let simmer gently about two 
hours, looking at it frequently and taking out the 



meat as it appears to be done and putting it away to^ 
become cold, after which take the bones out and 
return them to the boiler, along with the onions, 
spices-and herbs and the rind of half a small lemon 
and the mushrooms or liquor from a can. 

Two hours before dinner strain off the soup into, 
a deep jar or pail, let stand one-half hour and skim 
off the top. Pour it without sediment through a 
fine strainer into a large saucepan and proceed to 
clarify it. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon, then, 
add the whites of eggs mixed with a cup of cold 
water and the piece of raw beef chopped . like 
sausage meat. Set it on the fire and when the egg 
is well cooked in it pour it through a napkin, laid 
inside a strainer, twice. Put in such pieces of 
turtle as will not float and eggs or egg-balls pre* 
yioDsly cooked and free from . fragments. If any 
green fat simmer the pieces in soup separately and 
add a piece in each plate. Wine and thin quarter- 
slices of lemon to be added just before serving. 
Let the soup be amber colored. It is troublesome 
to have this soup ready too long before dinner as a 
skin forms on top that may necessi'ate another- 
straining if the clear appearance is to be preserved' 



It will be a great inconvenience should the clear 
soup be so excessively rich that it will not run 
through the napkin or jelly strainer after boiling 
with the beef and white of egg, especially if the- 
trouble happen when time is short till dinner. 
Read the remarks concerning aspic jelly at No. 
735, and avoid the extreme of glutinous richness if 
clear soup is to be made. 



1188. Lamb Outlets with Veffetables^ 

12 lamb chops. 

1 peck of spinach — or other greens. 

> 

24 small new potatoes. 
1 small cauliflower, 
4 ounces of butter. 
Little white sauce. 

Prepare the chops as for broiling; pepper and' 
salt them, dip both sides in a little butter on a plate 
and lay them in a baking pan that they will just 
fill. 

Boil the spinach green; take it up before it is 
quite done, drain on a seive and press the water 
away from it, then rub it through a strainer with a 
little sauce mixed in to help it through Mix Ihe 
green pulp with an equal amount of butter sauce. 
Have the new potatoes ready steamed and the cauli- 
flower picked apart in branches. Cook the chops 
on the top shelf in a hot range about six or eight 
minutes, serve one to a dish with the gravy that 
collects upon them, the green sauce under theok 
and the vegetables as ornaments at either side. 



THE AKS&IOAN OOOK. 



337 



1189. Potted Plffeons with Jelly. 



12 pigeons. 

1 pound of sausage meat. 

i pound of butter. 

1 pint of broth. 

2 tablespoonfuls yinegar. 
Pepper, salt, spice. 

i cupful currant jelly. 

Flour and water paste. 
Glean the pigeons, split in haWes down the back 
and breast, wipe dry, dredge with pepper and salt 
and ground allspice. Place a spoonful of sausage 
meat inside and press the two haWes together 
again. Spread a cup of butter on the bottom of a 
gmall earthen jar, lay the pigeons close pressed 
down in the jar, put in a cup of broth and little 
yinegar. Coyer the top with a lid of plain flour 
and water paste. (See No. 1042). Set in the oyen 
in a pan of water early in the morning and let bake 
three or four hours. Dish up out of the jar with- 
out disarranging the stuffing and sauce with the 
jelly miied with grayy. They should be yery 
tender. Half a bird to an order is sufficieut at a 
plentiful dinner. 

liQO. Stuffed Tomatoes 



20 tomatoes — large and smooth. 

6 cupfuls of fine bread crumbs — not pressed. 

2 tablespoonfuls finely minced onions; 

Same of minced fat bacon* 

1 teaspoonful of salt* 

Same of pepper. 

Same of sugar. 

■ 1 «gg- 

In case bacon is not <at hand use an oanoe of 
butter* 

The Intention is that all the inside except enough 
to make a case to bake in shall be taken out, seasoned 
and put back to bake, the tomato, therefore, should 
not be peeled. Gut a slice off the top, scoop out 
with a spoon into a strainer that will let the surplus 
juice run off. Ghop the pulp with the edge of a 
spoon, mix the other articles with it and press into 
the tomatoes and round oyer the tops. Place close 
together in a buttered baking pan, dredge cracker 
meal on top and moisten with the back of a spoon 
dipped in butter. Bake about one-half hour. 



1191* Hinoed QoaU In Border. 

For twenty*four dishes proyide : 
1 dosen quail. 
1 cupftil raw rice. 
8 quarts of broth. 
Sonp yegetables. 
6 ounces of butter— small cnp. 
6 tablespoonfuls of flour— large cap* 
Seasonings* 



Gook the rice as for a yegetable at dinner — that 
is, wash well and put it on in three cups of water 
and the lid shut down to keep the steam in. When 
done stir it up with salt and milk and smooth oyer 
the top. 

Take the breasts off the quails raw with a boning; 
knife, split them into flat, broad slices, season witb 
salt and simmer them laid close together in a pan 
with one ounce of butter or ^poultry fat. Whei» 
done on b th sides without browning put a plate on 
top to press, and set them away to get cold. 

Break up the bones and legs, boil them in the 
broth with yegetables and parsley. When all the 
richness is extracted strain the liquor off and 
thicken it with flour stirred up with butter in the 
usual way. Make it rather thick, add cayenne, 
strain it, take off any butter that may rise. Gut 
the cold cooked breasts of quails in dice, size of 
peas — they are made cold first in order that they 
may keep the shape — and mix them in the hot sauce 
just before dishing up. Make fancy borders on the 
indiyidual dishes, quickly and easily, by cutting; 
out small egg shapes from the rice with a teaspoon 
dipped first in butter. Place four or more on each 
side and dish the mince in the centre. A green leaf 
of parsley will relieye the whiteness of alL 



Supper and " fete of the season ** under royal 
patronage at the Fisheries Exhibition, London^ 
July, 1883 : ** The Princess Ghristian and 'a dream 
of fair women' were engaged in supplying refresh- 
ments at the modest charge of half-a-crown a glass* 
The Lady Mayoress presided oyer the American: 
bar, where were dispensed such fancy drinks as 
< Bosom Garessers,* a * Pousse P Amour ^ a * Flash 
of Lightning,' manipulated by the skilled attend- 
ants of the caterers." After midnight a supper was 
seryed at cosy little tables, in the Prince's Payilion^ 
with the following 

MENU. 

Saumon a la N^ryegienne. 

Salade de Homard. Buissons de Greyettes 

Filets de Soles a la Regence. 

Boulade d*Anguilles en Aspic. 



Gotelettes d'Agneau a la Printaniere. 
Groustade de Gailles a la Oelee. 



Qalantine de Yolaille aux Pistaohee. 

Poularde pique. 

Jambon d^Yorck. 

Pate de Pigeonf. 

Filet de Bceuf braisee» 

Langue a I'Ecarlate. 

Salade a la Basse. 

Salade a la Francaise. 



1 



Suedoise aux Abrioots* 

Gelee Macedoine. 

MeriDfues Gbantilly*. 

Maiarines gi^c^ 

Dames d'Honneur 



S38 



TKB AMXBIOAV OOOX. 



TRAHSULTION. 

Fish — Salmon, Norwegian etjle, probably orna- 
mented, this being a fish exhibition. Soyer sajs the 
Norwegian way is to boil the salmon in sea or salt 
water and eat it with spiced yinegar — Lobster salad 
(No. 746)— Buissons of prawns (No. 749)— Filleto 
of soles with regency sauce — that is the liquor 
firom stewed eels and yegetables, mixed with claret 
and brown sauce, with balls of fish forcemeat and 
mushrooms in the dishes for ornament. 

Roulade of eels in aspio— cold — ^large eels split 
open, boned, rolled up, cooked in that shape and 
j>ut in ornamental jelly like Nos. 798 and 786. 

Hot Entrbbs. — ^Lamb chops with new yegetables, 
like No. 1188 — a U Printaniere means Spring-time 
style — Crcustade of quails — a '* chaudfroid," or 
mioce, like No. 1191 in ornamental cups of fHed 
bread, and currant jelly in the dish. 

Cold. — Boned fowl, studded with pistachio nuts 
instead of truffles (No. 785)— pistachios are a kind 
of almond, green in color and costly, sometimes 
two dollars a pound — ^Poulard or young fowl* 
larded with bacon — ^York ham — ^because Yorkshire 
hams are reputed the best (No. 811) — ^Pigeon pie, 
eold, the pigeons boned and laid in a case of paste 
raised in a mold and lined first with forcemeat 
and bacon — Fillet of beef, well cooked with season, 
ings in a coyerd pot — Corned tongue (No. 1077, 
see note) — Russian salad (No. 746) — ^French salad, 
anything, perhaps No. 740. 

SwESTB AND pASTRT. — Swcdish bombc or shell of 
apricot ice with ice-cream inside, formed in a mold 
(see combinations at 73 and succeeding numbers). 
Macedoine jelly, different kinds minced and mixed 
(No. 208) — Meringues or egg kisses, with whipped 
oream inside (No. 189) — Mazarines glazed — the 
Mazarine of meat of a former menu is a case of 
forcemeat filled, these are pastry patties a la Maza- 
TiU; round, thefiruit jam infide, pearl glaze (No. 2) on 
top, the same as No. 242. Maids of Honor, the old 
Virginia and probably old English name for cheese- 
cakes (Nos. 247, 290, 292) made with fine puff paste 
in the patty pans instead of common short paste. 

The foregoing supper was seryed by a London 
catering firm. 



The poutte V amour referred to is made by filling 
a tall and slender wine glass half way up with 
maraschino, dropping in the yolk of an egg, half 
filling the remsining space with yanilla cordial and 
filling up with brandy without mixing the different 
parts. 

Third Day. 

Ox Tail Soup, 

Chicken pie — American etyle^ 
Lambs jriett eauteed in buUer» 
Oeese livere in easet. 
Peaches with rice. 



1192. Oz Tail Soup. 

The ox-tails must be cut up raw and stewed for 
two or three hours to make the meat quite tender- 
This is a grayy soup, and while it may be bright^ 
rich and free from grease, it should not be too fina 
strained. Ox tail clear will be found ftirther on. 
Take 

8 gallons of beef soop stock. 
6 ox-tails. 

1 head of oelery. 

2 carrots. 
2 turnips. 

6 cloyes stuck in an onion. 

A bunch of herbs with a bay leaf tied np in it. 

8 cups of sifted flour for thickening. 

Pepper and salt. 
Cut the ox-tails in thin round slices by sawing, if 
you haye a sharp little saw and plenty of time ; if 
not, with a sharp chopper ; wash, and then set 
them on to stew early in a saucepan of stock with 
salt and pepper in it. Cut the oarrots and turnips 
m thin slices, s'amp out ail the shapes they will 
make with a round cutter to match the pieces of ox- 
tail, and put them in water. Set on the stock witli 
a fresh loin bone In it, the scraps of yegetables, tho 
thin ends of the ox-tails that would not make slices, 
the celery, onions and herbs, and let boil. 

An hour before dinner time strain off into the 
soup pot through a coarse strainer, getting ail the 
grayy particles ; throw in the yegetable slices, let 
them cook in it, and strain in the liquor from the 
stewed ox-tails. Mix up the flour with water and 
use it to thicken slightly. Add the ox-tail last. 
Before turning it into the tureen let the soup stop 
boiling and skim off the fat until no more rises. 

There should be two pieces of meat and two or 
three of yegetables seryed in each plate. 

1198. Ohioken Pie—Aznerioan Style. 

Read remarks about cutting up fowls for chicken 
pie at No. 1016. About eight large ones will be 
required for fifty persons. These weigh twenty-fiye 
pounds as they come to market unopened, or seyen- 
teen or eighteen pounds net. The thirty.two choice 
cuts should be cooked in one saucepan and the 
necks, backs and hips in another. The supposition 
is that some will be left oyer and it had better be 
the rough portions than the best breast pieces. 
Some will not take chicken. When fowls of a 
larger size are used they will be fewer in number 
and the cuts must be diyided accordingly. 

Many wayside inns haye gained a reputation for 

their excellence in this popular dish and stop-OTcr 

tickets haye been in request on that account. 

It does not make much difference whether the 
fowls are young or old, but those at the mature ago 

of twelye months are the best, the essential point 

being to cook them until tender, and the next ne- 



THB AlCEBICAN COOK. 



33» 



cessity bein^ ft knack of plain seasonings to a 
degree that makes the pie savory. When you have 
good chicken pie the guests generally are indiffer- 
ent about the quality of the beef and mutton for 
that day at least. Take 

8 two-and-a.quarler-pbund chickens. 

6 ounces of fat salt pork. 

8 ounces of butter (optional). . 

1 onion — 2 ounces. 

1 tablespoonful good black pepper. 
Same of salt. 

2 cups of sifted flour for thickening. 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped parsley. 
And for the crust : 

3 pounds of flour 

2 pounds of beef suet. 
Little salt. 

Set the cut chickens on in a boiler with hot water 
to a little more than cover, cook with the lid on 
from one to three hours, according to kind. When 
there is a large quantity take care lest those pressed 
on the bottom stick and burn there and spoil the 
whole. 

Throw in the pork cut in squares, the minced 
onion, salt and half the pepper, and when the 
chicken is tender thicken the liquor moderately 
with the flour stirred up with a little milk. 

Make the paste by mincing the suet extremely 
fine* having it soft, then rubbing it into the flour, 
wet with water and roll it out same way as puff 
paste four or five times, to give it a flaky texture. 

Line the sides of a deep baking pan with paste, 
(but not the bottom) dip the pieces of chicken in 
with a skimmer, dredge the rem<iinder of the pep- 
per over the top, sift a dust of flour over that, put 
in the butter and parseley, then all the chicken 
liquor it will hold without boiling over, roll out the 
remaining pie paste and cover it. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven three quarters of an hour. 

Better not brush over with egg wash, for a hotel 
dinner. There should not be enough gravy in the 
pie while baking to boil over the crust and make it 
heavy, but it can be kept ready in the boiler and 
poured in afterwards. 



1194. Lambs' Fries Sauteed in Butter. 



Lamb's fries can be purchased of the market 
men who furnish sweetbreads and brains. Wash 
and then blanch them in boiling water containing 
salt and a dash of vinegar. Let them get cold. 
Split in two, pepper and salt and then flour them 
on both sides. When nearly time to serve put some 
butter in a large frying pan on the range and when 
it is melted and froths up lay in the lamb's fries 
and cook them brown on both sides. Serve hot 
with tomato sauce around in the dish and the butter 
atill frothing upon them. 



1195 Geese Livers in Oases. 



This is a delicate entree made by liniug the bot- 
toms of small paper oases with liver paste (like No. 
805, without the cut meats) on that lay a slice of 
raw goose liver, and on that a covering of the liver 
paste again, smooth over, brush with melted butter 
and bake in the cases in a slack oven about fifteen 
or twenty minutes or until the slice of liver inside 
is cooked through. Then pour a spoonful of sauce 
in each one and keep in the oven until served. For 
24 you require: 

24 fancy paper cases, procured from the cook's 
supply stores, or made like shallow boxes at 
home. , 

12 goose livers to slice— the scraps and 
J pound of poultry livers for the paste. 
i pound of fat bacon. 
J pound of bread panada. 
2 eggs. 
Seasonings. 
See Nos. 804 and 805 for particulars. 
It is not necessary to be exact in the kinds of 
seasonings! used, but herbs may be used instead of 
wine when there is wine in the sauce ; and the pan- 
ada will give a mild flavor to the paste without the 
use of chicken. 

Before using the paper cases brush them insida 
with clear butter and make them hot in the oven. 



II96. Peaches with Rioe. 



80 halves of largest peaches in syrup. 
3 pints of cooked rice. 
1 cupful of red fruit jelly. 

Fine large peaches, already put up in syrup, can 
be used ; or, if fresh, they may be simmered in the 
oven in a pan containing a little syrup and butter. 
Baste them with the syrup and keep an oiled paper 
over until they are done. 

Cook rice as if for a vegetable, use but little salt 
but a spoonful of sugar instead. 

Mix the red jelly in the peach syrup for sauce. 

Put a spoonful of rice in the small dish, dip % 
spoon in butter or syrup so that the rioe will not 
adhere, and make a neat shape of it, place tho 
peach on top, pour a spoonful of sauce over all. 



Dishes a la Joinville are doubtless so named 
in compliment to a person, but whether a noted 
statesman of an earlier period or a recent Prince do 
Joinville it may be impossible now to determine. 
Crayfish and truffles are indicated by the name 
and the chief merit of both articles consists in their 
compara'ive scarcity and costliness. 



There is nothing definite in the term bouehees a la 
Rein^ (literally mouthfuls or morsels) or houdint or 
patties in the Queen's style, because so many varia* 



340 



THE AlCEBICAK COOK. 



lions both of form and filling bear the same desig- 
naiion and it can not be known which is the orig- 
inal or whether there ever was one. The dish is 
said to have been originated by Marie, the wife of 
Loais XV., who was fond of good living. But that 
queen was a Polish princess, and Poland was 
famous before that time as a land of good living, 
good cookery and profuse hospitality and the bou- 
cheest as likely as not, were but introduced from 
that country's euiaine. And Bechamel, whose name 
is almost as frequently sttached to patties or pastry 
bouchees of chicken flourished in the service of the 
king preceding this one. The term is, therefore, 
but little more than a verbal ornament and you are 
to take the Queen's name for it that it is good, any- 
way. 

Study of Notable Menus. 



Dinner at Hotel Kaaterskill, Catskill Mountains, 
August 12, 1883, Edw<ird A. Gillett, manager. One 
of the largest of American hptels. Heighth of the 
season. Probably 800 guests. 

MENU. 

Blue Point Oysters, en Goquille. 



Qreen Turtle 



Consomme, Printaniere. 



Bonchees de Volaille, a la Reine. 



Boiled Salmon, a la Joinville, 

Broiled Spanish Mackerel, a la Maitre d' Hotel, 
Parisienne Potatoes, Cucumber Salad. 



Tenderloin of Beef, Larded, with Mushrooms, 



Baked Chicken Pie, a TAmericaine, 

Geese Liver, en Caisse, Italienne Sauce, 
Lamb Fries, Tomato Sauce, 

Peches, a la Conde. 



Sorbet Moscovite. 



Boiled Leg of Mutton, Caper Sauce, 

Boiled Chicken, Egg Sauce, 

Corned Beef and Cabbage. 

Boast Ribs of Beef, a TAuglaise, 
Roast Lamb, Mint Sauce, 

Roast Duck, Stuffed, Apple Sance. 

Mashed Potatoes, Boi'ed Potatoes, Green Corn, 
String Beans, Fried Egg Plant, Rice. 

Boned Capon, with Truffles, Beef Tongues, 

Cold Lamb, Ham and Chicken, 



Tomatoes and Lettuce, Plain or Mayonnaise, 
Chicken Salad. 



Apple Meringue Pie, Custard Pie, 

English Plum Pudding, Brandy Sauce. 

Assorted Cake. 

Champagne Jelly, Vanilla Ice Cream, 

Punch Cardinal, Boiled Custard. 

Fruit — Nuts and RaiMns. 

English Dairy, Edam and Roquefort Cheese. 

Coffee. 



COMMENTS. 

Otstkbs — On shell (No. 864) — it is' said that rair 
oysters are served at this table all through the sum- 
mer, seven to a plate, ^rices high, business vt8i» 
all on a lavish scale. 

Soups — Green turtle (No. 1181) — Con«omm» 
printaniere or spring soup or with green vegetables 
(No. 1197). 

BoucuEEs — or patties to serve in this place are- 
always small and generally made of two flats of fine 
puff paste with a teaspoonful of minced chicken, 
very highly seasoned, inclosed between them like 
No. 242, but the edges, wetted, are only pressed 
lightly together and not pinched. There are vari- 
ous other forms of patties and cases used. 

Fish — Boiled salmon (Nos. 920 and 922) and gar- 
nished with truffles and crayfish or prawns in the 
sauce — Parisian potatoes (No. 958) — Spanish mack- 
erel (Nos. 888, 886, and sauce 880) — cucumber 
salad (No. 772) — the cucumbers 'are usually sliced, 
allowed to lie sprinkled with salt to draw the water, 
drained and shaken up with oil and vinegar. 

Entrees -Tenderloin or fillet (No. 1182) with 
small button mushrooms in sauce poured over the 
slices when served — chicken pie (No. 1 198) — lambs^ 
fries (No. 1194) — geese livers in cases (Ne. 1195) — 
peaches with rice (No. 1196). 

Sorbet — Moscovite or Russian— Sorbets is the*. 
French word for frozen punches, or ices that con- 
tain wines and liqueurs. 

Meats and Vegetables — See index. 

Cold Dishes — Boned capon with truffles — galant-^ 
ine as at No. 785 with the white meat inlaid with 
strips of black truffle and the trimmings of truffles 
mixed in the forcemeat. Truffles come in cans of 
various graded sizes, beginning at a dollar for about, 
two ounces. Other cold meats and salads, see in- 
dex. 

Pastrt — A.pple cream pie as at No. 60. or 52, or 
53, with meringue on top {No. 42) — custard pie 
(No. 58) — plum pudding (No. 831) ^-champagne 
jelly (Nos. 202 and 208)— Vanilla ice cream (No. 84> 
Cardinal punch, red frozen punch made with port 
wine poured over a roasted orange, and sugar and 
water — for a red punch, see No. 135— boiled cust- 
ard (Nos. 499 and 77) probably served in oupf». 
very cold for those who are afraid to eat ices. 



Fourth Day. 

C^ar Spring Soup, 

Stuffed loin of mutton. 

SmaU fiUett of btef in glaze. 

Egg plant fried plain. 

Cktrried tripe — Italian. 

Apple fritters with 9auc$. 



THB AKEBICAN COOK. 



34t 



1107. Clear Spring Soup. 



' The difltinguishing feftture is the addition of 
Mpangus heads and green peas to a proportion of 
any other commoner kinds of Tegetables in a clear 
consomme. 

We have no English word for eotaomme bat broth 
and that does not express the same meaning 
Broth is the liquor in which meat has been boiled, 
consomme is the same liquor strained clear, per- 
haps clarified like jelly. It is pronounced in three 
syllables, though some old Eaglish books of cookery 
speak of ** consumes '' of meat and fowl in a very 
vague and misty manner. 

Oonsomnu printaniere is one of the favorite varie- 
ties because of the handsome appearance of the 
vegetables when skilfully cooked green (No. 741). 
But these clear soups are not called for at table as 
much as the stronger kinds. Two gallons of clear 
soup is plenty where three of the^others would be 
consumed. Take 

2 gallons of consomme. 

1 cupful of very green peas. 

1 heaping cupful of asparagus heads. 

Same of little trimmed flowrets of cauliflower. 

Same of carrots, turnips and onions scooped 

out in shapes with a potato scoop, or else cut 

in neat dice shapes. 

The Bvock (which is but a grand broth of several 

xmds ot meat) will have been seasoned in the boiler 

already with soup herbs and vegetables. When it 

IS drawn off clear in the morning and strained 

tnrougn a silk sieve, it will be clear enough for this 

purpose. An hour before dinner bring it to a boil 

and skim it from the side. Season with salt and 

little cayenne, add a tablespoonful of burnt sugar 

both for co*or and mild flavor. 

Cook the vegetables separately, drain them out 
of the water into the tureen and pour the consomme 
to them 



1108. Stuffed Loin of MuttoxL 

This is loin of mutton or lamb sliced down to the 
bone, a highly seasoned mince (salpicon) pressed in 
between the slices, tied to keep shape and b<iked 
tender. For the meat y^u need four of those 
pieces that lie between figures 1 and 2 in the side 
of mutton at No. 997, and a boiled neck of mutton 
beside. For the stuffing take 

1 capful of cooked meat finely minced. 
1 cupAil of raw meat same way. 
1 slice of ham, or meat from a cooked knnckle 
—also minced. 
• 1 tablespoonful minced onion, a clove of garlic 
and a bay leaf, both minced, a teaspoonful of 
black pepper and same of salt. 
After thoroughly mixing these, taking care to 
have a small proportion of fat meat included, spread 



a little between the cuts, draw a twine around from; 
Obd to end, .crowd the pieces close together in one- 
pan, cover with oiled paper and bake not less than 
two hours with frequent basting. Make gravy ia 
the pan as at No. 1062. 

To serve, take the slices from the bone, each with 
its portion of stuffing, and the strained gravy pour 
over. 



The pieces of mutton named above always accum- 
ulate in the hotel meat house beoause they will not 
make the shapely chops that are so much coveted 
and there is not sufficient demand for plain roast 
mutton. And yet the meat of tbis cut is of th& 
best. If cooked with any of the savory etuffings- 
that make chickens and turkeys g'od and roasted 
long enough to make them tender- without drying 
them out they are soon bruught into use. Half 
cooked meat mixed with half raw will set and hold 
the herbs and seasonirgs and be g^od, but if all 
cooked meat must be used an.egg and little bread 
crumbs must be added to bind it together. 



1100. Small Fillets of Beef in Glaze. 

This simplest of dishes and prime favorite with 
the lovers of stewed meat we find among the dish a 
of Queen Victoria's dinners as *' Les petiU filets d& 
boeuf dans Uur glace " Sometimes it turns up in a' 
menu as *' Escalopes ds boeuf en dcmi fflace" because- 
the natural gravy of the pieces of beef is boiled 
down to the condition known as half glaze. Filled 
in this case does not mean tenderloin, but only a. 
strip or band of meat, or, it is called a scollop if 
out like very small steaks. Take 
8 pounds of lean scraps of beef. 
2 quarts of water. 

1 teaspoonful of black pepper. 

2 teaspoonfuls of salt. 

Caul flower in branches, or small new potatoes 
for a border. . 

The meat is the small lot of choice loin piecea 
that are not large ur shapely enough for steaka 
(No. 992). Gut them into strips like fingers. Put 
them on three hours before dinner with cold water 
enough to cover them and the salt and pepper in i 
and let stew slowly. Skim off the fat 

There is nothing to add, nothing to do, but let th» 
liquor boil down to rich gravy, so rich that it stay» 
on the pieces of meat and makes them sbine, and 
dish them np that way with potatoes scooped in ball 
shapes or something else to border the dishes. 



The cook who makes the entrees ought to be the 
one to dish them up, or else his second must be fUlly 
intelligent of the purpose and method. One-half 
the merit of the cooking done by a master of it, 
over the common, lies in the manner of placing tha 
viands oa the dishes. If you tumble a pile of meal 



^{42 



THE AKEBICAN COOK. 



•on a dUh in a dUorder'y way the little niceties of 
shaping, glazing, coloring, garnishing, and strain- 
ing and smoothing sauces into a veWetj (veloute) 
Appearance count for nothing; but if it is only 
three pieces of beef scraps stewed tender aod saTory 
with I heir own natural grivy they should placed be 
in order, perhaps diagonally, in the dish, with the 
litMe garnishing accompan'ment of whatever it may 
be, either string beans cut in diamonds, or green 
peas or the like p'aced in two straight lines, also 
'diagonally, acoss the ends. It is impossible to ex- 
plain the whys and wherefores of these trifles. But 
-each dish becomes an ornament to its p'aoe and the 
-entire course is an invitation in itself. There must 
be'a'natural aptitude in the cook to understand this 
feature of the dinner making and then through all 
the necessary haste of the operations of senring 
•dinner somehow that effort at tasteful display makes 
•a distinct impression. 



1200. EfiTfiT Plant Fried Plain 



Slice the egg-plant without paring into quarter, 
inch thicknesses, throwing away only the end par- 
ings. Boil the slices a few minutes in salted water 
to extract the strong taste, drain them and while 
still moist dust with pepper, dip both sides in flour 
«nd fry (iaute) them in frying 'pans on the top of 
the range in a little clear drippings and send them 
in fresh done and brown. 



1201. Ourried Tripe— Italian. 



1 pound of tripe — already cooked. 

1 cupful of gravy. 

1 small onion. 

1 teaspoonful of curry powder. 

5 hard-boiled eggs. 

10 slices of bread. 

Black pepper and cayenne. 

Cut the onion across and across and shave it in 
little biis into a saucepan with a bastingspoonful of 
the clear tasteless fat frjm the top of the stock 
boiler and fry until it begins to brown. Sprinkle a 
rounded teaspoonful of curry powder over the 
onion, cut the tripe in shred*s size of macaroni end 
two inches long and put it in and shake up over the 
fire until it is yellow-coated with curry. Add a 
little black pepper and cayenne and hot meat gravy 
enough to make it like a thick stew. Cut ten thin 
slices of bread to the shape of a long leaf, dip one 
side in the fat in the meat pan and toast lightly on 
^the top shelf of the range. When you dish up put 
one of these pieces on the edge partly projecting 
outwards, the spoonful of tripe heaped in the dish 
tind two.quarters of boiled egg cut lengthwise, at 
the other end. 



1202. Apple Fritters with Saooe. 

There is the widest difference In quality between 
apple fritters made in the usual rough and ready 
way and some others of the best possible sort, s'ill 
while thirty or forty persons out of every fifty are 
found to take these with apparent satisfaction we 
will not be the first to complain, but will only sug- 
gest that they cook through in half the time with- 
out burning the bat er almost black if care is taken 
to ascertain that the apples are of an easy cooking 
kind ; for there are kinds that will never be done 
through. Take. 

8 or 10 apples. 

2 cupfuls of fiour — } pound. 

1 cupful of milk or water. 

2 eggs. Pinch of salt. 

1 tablespoonful melted lard. 

Same of syrup. 

1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

It is well worth while to always mix the batter 
by measure as it wastes time and is unsatisfactory 
to have to doctor it over again. 

Wash the apples and dry them, cut in slices with- 
out paring and throw away only the end pieces. If 
good apples the slices should not be very thin. 

Put the flour and all the rest into a pan and stir 
rapidly together and beat the ba'ter thus made un* 
til it is smooth. Drop in the apple slices, take 
them up coated with batter and drop from a spoon 
into a saucepan of hot lard. Fry sbout 8 minutes. 
Break off the rough fragments as you dish them 
and pour over a large spoonful of pudding saaoe or 
No. 477. 



They are more elegant with the apples pared and 
cored and then sliced into thick rings. 



Study of Notable Menus. 



Says a newspaper: ''Very s'mple was the menu 
of the dinner at Dantzic, when the emperors of 
Germany and Russia met. It wss this: 
Potage tortue, a TAnglaise. 
Turbot et saumon garnis. 
Filet de boeuf, braise. 
Legumes. 
Filets de poulets, aux truffes. 
Chaudfroid de cailles. 
Salade. 
Olaces. Compote, 

Dessert. 
A glass or two of champagne, and the meal was 
over. To the dread of bombs their imperial high- 
nesses do not mean to add the horrors of dyspepsia," 



TBANSLATION. 

The simplicity is rather apparent than real, the 
fewest possible words being used to indicate tl e 
dishes served which are: English turtle soup, two 






THB AKEBICAK COOK. 



343^ 



kinds of fish, tarbot and salmon, both garnished 
or dscorated perhaps very elaborately, and of 
course differently cooked, a braised tenderloin of 
beef with some sort of accompaniment not men- 
tioned. Vegetables are bunched together in one 
word, **leffumes.'* Fillets of fowls with truffles, in 
some shape, ^but whether as truffle sauce or other- 
wise not indicated. T e favorite *'chaudfroid*' of 
quails occurs here again. Salade has but one word. 
Ices, which may have been various, the same. 
Compote may have been a work of art in the shape 
of a combination of fruits in syrup with cream in a 
border mould or with cake. Dessert, is but the 
title head for an unknown quantity contributed by 
'terers, confectioners, cheesemakers and others. 



Fifth Day. 



Cream of fowl soup. 



Ribs of beef with Yorkshire pudding. 

Larded sweetbreads with green peas» 

Celery and cheese — Italian, 

Peach fritters. 



1203. Oream of Fowl Soup. 



This following is the generally received Potage a 
la Seine, but it should be known that there are 
several variations. A case has been known of a 
fashionable city restaurateur who sent for a noted 
cook from a leading eastern hotel that he might 
have the advantage of the best skill obtainable in 
his business, only to find that they differed on such 
points as whether />o(a^e a la Reine should be made 
with almonds or not, to a degree of positiveness that 
soon put an end to the engagement. Tbere have 
been almond cream soups always, Spanish, Italian, 
and French, sweet, gras and maigre — native to 
countries where almonds were plenty, the latter 
mixed with oatmeal instead of chicken, but the 
Queen soup or potage a la Reine in present use seems 
to have originated with Udc, since he gave out what 
he termed his improved receipt for making it, set- 
ting aside his first way, and does not use almonds. 
Still there were others who thought they improved 
it, and Bi«hop, a Windsor Castle cook, gives us an 
especial ''potage a la Queen Victoria" thatdoes con- 
tain the paste of pounded almonds, as well as that 
of chicken and hard boiled yolks of eggs. An- 
other calls that *<pureeof fowl a la Celestine," after 
a stage celebrity of that time, while he adopts tide's 
potage a la Reine and calls it "puree of fowl, a la 
Reine." These points are of interest to stewards 
and cooks, and may remind them of how two 
knights, in the fable, fought over the question of 
what the shield was made of that they found set 
up by the highway and one of them had seen only 



the side that was made of gold and the other the^ 

opposite side that was made of silver. 
To make the soup take 
3 gallons of chicken or veal broth, 
Meat of 4 fowls, or 3 quarts when out up, 
1 quart boiled rice, 

1 small onion, 

2 heads of celery, 
2 blades of mace, 

1 quart of cream — or milk and some butter, 

Salt and cayenne. 
It is frequently the case that there is an abund- 
ance of chicken broth on hand when fowls have 
been boiled for dinner the previous day. Set it on 
to boil with the bones of thQ fowls and if necessary a 
veal shank to make it richer, the onion, celery and 
mace and no other vegetables or seasooiogs. Mince 
the chicken meat fiae, then pound it and the rice 
together in a mor:ar, thin it down with hot broth 
and force it through a seive. Boil the cream separ- 
ately. At time to dish up stiain the chicken broth 
into the puree, stirring all the while. Season with 
salt and cajenne and add the boiling cream. The 
soup shouMnot be allowed to boil after the differ- 
ent psrts are mixed together. Any kind of rich soup 
or stew liquor will curdle cream or milk if they are- 
boiled together. This and similar cream eoups will 
generally curdle slightly while keeping hot in the 
tureen, but not to a degree that makes much differ- 
ence provided it is not allowed to boil and then 
settle. 



1204. Ribs of Beef with Torkshira 

Puddinff. 



It would be a very popular dish if better under- 
stood. According to the original usage it should 
be beef roasted on a spit with the pudding in a tin 
reflecting oven underneath catching the gravy and 
baking at the same time, and the next way to that 
is to set the meat on a trivet or frame standing in 
the dish of pudding and both baked together, the 
pudding being of course saturated with the gravy 
and drippings. But this requires the steady and 
moderate heat of a brick oven. Either way, it must 
be seen, a dish is made that is very different from 
what some restaurants offer with the same name, 
which is a square of tough pudding as dry as a 
piece of bread, made long before the meal, and 
thrust into the side of a dish of meat as if for a 
superfluous sort of ornament only. 

It can be served almost in the original style with 
almcst its original softness and richness by cooking 
the rib ends of beef carefully as directed at No 
1022, and the Yorkshire pudding at No. 408, and 
put the latter in to bake only fifteen minutes before 
time to serve, and only half an inch deep in the 
pan. Then serve a square or oblong cut in the dish 
that cut of beef rib without boue, and the wisely 



344 



THB AKEBICAN COOK. 



gravy obtainable tr^m the roast beef poured ovpr 
them. Yorkshire pudding made ft'om the reoeipt 
«boTe referred (o is rich enough for anything, even 
for pudding with sweet sauce. 

1205. Lcirded Sweetbreads with Peas. 

For 24 dishes take 

12 selected caWes* sweetbreads. 

1 pound of salt pork or bacon. 

2 quarts of chicken or veal broth. 
2 ounces of butter. 
Seasonings; mashed potatoes. 

2 cans of French peas. 

Take sweetbreads large.enough to be split in two. 
Wash them and steep in cold water. Boil about 
15 minutes in soup stock with a dash of vinegar in 
it — which helps to keep them white — then take 
them out and press them between two pans until 
cold. At the same time set the chicken stock on the 
fire to boil down to half the quantity. 
' Gut the pork into thin strips. Split the sweet- 
breads and lard them with it in regular order, 
drawing the strips through. Trim the edges to an 
even shspe. 

Butter the bottom of a shallow saucepan and lay 
in the sweetbreads with the remaining trimmings 
of salt pork and piece of onion, turnips and celery, 
bruised pepper corns, and enough of the reduced 
broth to fill the spaces without floating the sweet- 
breads. Let simmer with the lid on about half an 
hour. 

Then take them up into another vessel; add the 
remaining broth to the gravy, strain it into another 
saucepan and not thicken it but skim and then boil 
it down to clear glaze and pour it over the sweet- 
breads just before dishing them up. 

Part of these preparations can be gone through 
the previous evening when the dish is for 
dinner. 

When to be served spread mashed potatoes thinly 
in a large dish and cut out flats, place one in each 
dish with an egg-slice or knife, setting it with a 
diagonal slant across the dish, a sweetbread on top, 
and green peas in a similar slanting line at each end 
of the dish. 



1206. Baked Oelery and Oheese— Italian. 



A two-quart panful of celery cut small. 

2cupfuls ofgrated cheese. 

} cupful of butter or roast meat fat. 

2 cupfuls of brown sauce. 

Pepper and perhaps salt. 

1 cupful of cracker meal. 
Cut the celery in pieces an inch and a half long 
and split to about twice the size of macaroni and 
boil 15 minutes in salted water. Drain, put in a 
buttered small baking pan, sprinkle in the cheese, 
»nd pepper liberally; pour over good well-flavored 



bvown sauce, or the gravy withont faX from the roast 
meat pan, sift cracker metl over the top and bake it 
long enough for the cheese to be melted in it and 
the flavors well mingled. This can be made a very 
excellent dish and one in great request with a good 
quility of cheese and gravy not too salt. Serve in 
flat dishes with or without a fried crust or toast. 
The baking is not essential, but when the oven ia 
crowded it wi'l be almost as good gently simmered 
on top. 

1207. Peaoh Fritters. 

Take ripe freestone peaches raw, peel and cut 
them in halves. Mix up a batter the same as for 
apple fritters at No. 1202, and use the peaches the 
same way. Serve with wine or any other pudding 
sauce. 



Study of Notable Menus. 



Banquet at the Qrand Pacific Hotel, Chicago, 
John B. Drake, proprietor, September 1888. Given 
by the citizens in honor of a visiting Lord Chief 
Justice. Covers laid for 400. 

"The entire apartment was decorated in as pro- 
fusely rich a manner. It seemed as if the gardens 
of the West had been despoiled to furnish floral 
trophies for the occasion. The chandeliers were 
draped with smilaz, the entrance was gorgeously 
festooned. The brilliance of electric lights flooded' 
the apartment, and the strains of music, now gay 
and now patriotic, crept through the perfume-laden 
air and added melody to splendor.'* 

MENU. 



Blue Points. 



Oreen Turtle Soup. 

Boiled Kennebec Salmon. 
Slioed Tomatoes. 



Fillet of Beef, with Mushrooms. 
Lima Beans. 



Young Turkey, with Jelly. 
Baked Stuffed Tomatoes. Sweet Potatoes. 



Sweetbreads Larded. Oreen Peas. 

Peach Fritters, Claret Sauce. 

Pate of Chicken. 



Champagne S'herbet. 



Boast Prairie Chicken. Broiled Snipe. 

Dressed Celery. Chicken Salad. 

Brandy Jelly. Biscuit Glace. 

Cake. Tutti Frutti. 

Fruit. Coffee. Roquefort. 



The Steward of the Grand Paoifio Hotel Is Jamee 
F. Atkinson; Chief Cook, Constance Wolff; Pastiy 
] Cook and Confectioner, Pierre Caluori. 



THB AKEBIGAN COOK. 



345 



COMMENTS* 

The Chicago Times said: **ThediDiior was elegant- 
ly served in courses; it was an English dinner given 
'to in Englishman, The bill of fare was the acme of 
good taste; it was printed in good Anglo-Saxon so 
thai everybody could read it without hiring an in- 
terpreter." 



Sixth Day. 

Coney Island clam chowder. 



Fncandeau of minced veal. 

Pork tenderloin with cabbage. 

Celery in cream. 

Poached eggs — Andalusian. 

Farina cake with jelly. 



1208. Olemi Ohowder — Ooney IsUuid 

Style. 

The clam chowder so popular in the restaurants 
aa a lunch dish is more'of a stew than a soup,being 
thick with clams and potatoes; a large plate of it 
makes a hearty meal for a person. It is conse- 
-quently unsuitable to serve as soup at hotel dinners 
unless modified by the addition of more liquid. The 
folio wiog makes an available soup without materi- 
ally changing its character: 

2 quarts of clams and their liquor — or three 
large cans. 

6 quarts of soup stock. 

2 quarts of raw potatoes cut in pieces. 

Butter size of an egg. 

2 cupfuls of sliced onions. 

2 large slices of raw ham. 

1 quart of tomatoes chopped small. 

2 teaspoonfuls mixed thyme and savory. 
12 cloves, 1 bayleaf, parsley. 

1 tablespoonful each of black pepper and salt. 

The different articles should be made ready sep- 
arately and placed conveniently for use. Have the 
o'ams scalded and then cut in pieces and the liquor 
saved. Cut the potatoes in large squares and slice 
the onions. 

A.n bonr before dinner put the butter and ham in 
a sauoepun together and the onions on top and set 
over the fire. Stick the cloves in a small onion ad- 
-ditional and tie that up with the bayleaf and pars- 
ley and throw in and also the powdered or minced 
herbs, and put rn the 'id and let stew slowly. 

In about 15 or 20 minutes, or before the contents 
begin to brown, put into the sime saucepan the soup 
stock, clam liquor, tomatoes, potatoes, pepper and 
-salt, and let cook until the potatoes are done. Then 
•take out the soup bunch and ham, put in the dims 
«nd let boil up once before it goes into the tureen. 



1200. Frloandeau of Minoed VeaL 



Africandeau is defined as meaning something 

plea«ant to the taste, also as stewrd veal, also, a 
person fond of dainties. The dish following las 
become known to some extent under the name. The 
more elaborate larded, stuffed and braised fricandeau 
will be found further on. Take. 

1 pound or quart of raw veal, minoed. 

1 pound or three pints of cooked veal same. 

1 small onion. 

2 bay leaves, savoiy. 
1 cupful minced ham. 
4 thin slices of bacon. 

1 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper. 
Let one-fourth of the meat of both kinds be fat. 
Shave all dark outside from the cooked meat before 
mincing it. Fry -the onion cut up small in a spoon- 
ful of drippings and when it begins to brown mix it 
with the meat and all the other ingredients except 
bay leaves and bacon. Press the meat — which is 
Uke sausage— into a 8-quart pan of a deep and nar- 
row shape, smooth over, lay the bay leaves and ba- 
con slices on top and bake in a slow oven about an 
hour. Turn it out, cut carefully in slices like roast 
meat, and serve with a brown meat gravy poured 
under. 



1210. Pork Tenderloin witlx Oabbagre. 



It is expected that the potatoes will sufficiently 
thicken this chowder, but they should not be al- 
lowed to boil so much ae to disappear altogether. 



Select 4 large tenderloins — they weigh nearly a 
pound each — boil them in stock well salted for about 
an hour; take up and let them cool. At the same 
time cut ahead of summer cabbage in quarters,take 
out the hard stem and boil the cabbage about 45 
minutes or until tender. Drain it then, season and 
chop it. 

Cut the tenderloins into round slices (scollops). 
When you have taken up one kind of your roast din- 
ner meat let the pan dry down on top of the range 
until ii b<»gins to fry and the gravy sticks to the 
bottom and then put io the sliced tenderloin and let 
the pieces get a bright glaze and slight touch of 
brown on both sides. 

Dish up cabbage in the dish with two or three 
sUcrs of tenderloin pressed down edgewise, as in a 
border, and a spoonful of light-colored brown 
sauce. 



1211. Oelery in Oream. 

Cut celery in lengths a little shorter than aspar> 
agus, split the broad stalks to make them all of one 
size, tie in bunches, boil in salted water about half 
an hour, then drain and lay in a bright baking pan, 
removing the twine at the same time. Make a cup- 
ful of cream sauce (No. 931) and pour it over the 
celery and keep hot on the top shelf in the oven 
where it will get a yellow bake on top without cook- 



34G 



THB AXEBICAK COOK. 



ing and drying. Serve on flat dishes, the celery 
placed as it lay on the pan. 



1212. Poached Egrffs— Andalusian. 

One form of ctufa a la reliyieutt or religious peo* 
pie's eggs 'for Friday dinners. 

Stew down some strained tomatoes with finely 
minced onion in it to a thick puree, and brown sauce 
likewise in equal quantity and mix them together 
and add pepper sauce to make it puogent. Hsye 
ready some beets in Tinegar and capers. 

Potch egg^ as they are called for, in good shape 
as shown at No. 1189; put a spoonftil of the thick 
sauce or puree in a flat dish and a poached egg in 
the middle and ornament with shapes stamped out 
of pickled beets, and capers. 

I2I3. Farina Oake with Jelly. 



8 pints of milk or water. 

10 ounces of farina— 2 cups small. 

1 cup of sugar. 

Butter size of an egg. 

3 eggs. 

Pinch of salt. 
Boil the milk (or water) with half the sugar in 
it, sprinkle in the farina like making mush. Let it 
oook slowly at the back of the rsnge half an hour 
or more, Mix in the butter and eggs. Pour it 
into a pan that will not soil the bottom — a bright tin 
pan will do— about an loch deep. Bake 10 min- 
utes, then take it out of the oven and dredge the 
remaioing sugar over the top. Bake it again and 
the sugar will melt into a crisp glaze. Dish up 
squares or oblongs with a teaspoonful of bright jelly 
in the dish. 



Study of Notable Menus. 

The following was printed in the Daily National 
Hotel Reporter at the time. It is valuable as an ex- 
ample of the most advanced methods of setting out 
a banquet: 

On Docember 3d the publishers of the Atlantic 
Monthbf gave a breakfast at the Hotel Brunswick, 
Boston, in honor of the seventieth birthday of Oli- 
ver Wendell Holmes, the famous author and poet. 
The banquet hall of the Brunswick was a flower 
garden. Six long tables occupied the centre of the 
floor. Four of these were arranged lengthwise with 
the room, while the other two were placed at right 
angles to them, one at each end of the room. The 
space between the tables and the windows looking 
out upon the street was fliled with palm trees of 
huge size, placed in tubs of earth, which were in 
turn placed upon blocks or pedestals. The decora- 
tions, exclusively floral, were very elaborate. The 
four large mirrors on the side walls of the hall were 
tastefully hung with festoons of smilax intermingled 



with flowers of various kinds. The mantels irere- 
also profusely filled with rare flowers and plants* 
while the tables themselves were so c ^vered wiih 
roses, carnations, camellias and other fl «wers that it 
seemed doubtful at first bow the courses could be 
served. Two large b skets of flowers were set at 
the end of each table, and at the corner of each 
were strewn, in apparently loose piles, a lot of 
flowers. It looked as if a care' ess elbow might dis- 
arrange and upset these fragrant heaps, but a closep 
inspection showed that their stems were neatly tied 
together, Tiiis is said to be the latest Boston wrin- 
kle in the arrangement of flowers. In the centre- 
of the top and bottom tables were immcDse oblong 
baskets of flowers, from which delicate trails of 
smilazi with here and there a bright colored flower, 
ran gracefully in and cut among the silver dishes. 
The guests eigoyed the foUowiog 

MENU. 
Fillet of sole, tartar sauce. 



Stuffed Saddle-Rock oysters, roasted. 



Omelette, with chicken livers. 
Cutlets of chicken, French peas. 



Fillet of beef larded, with mushrooms* 
Potato croquettes, tomatoes. 



Broiled woodcock, on toast. 
Roast quail, stuffed with truffles. 
Dressed celery. 



^Creams and ices, Cakes. Fruita. 

Coffee. 



COMMENTS. 

The flole, we believe, is not found in AmericaA 
waters, although other flat fishes of a similar sort, 
such as plaice and flounders, are; and it is frequent- 
ly written in a menu as English sole; the circum- 
stance of their having to be imported enhancing the- 
flavor of the viands for an exceptional occasion. 
They are filleted, whenever,after skinning, the bone 
is taken out and then may be cooked either by bread- 
ing and frying, rolled up in coils — as would very 
likely be the way where a Urge number were to bo 
served — or by broiling. Tartar sauce is, or used to 
be, only another name for mayonaise, with certain 
seasonings added as stated at No. 903; but in this 
country a hot tartar sauce has come into use which 
is but slightly different from HoUandaise — being a 
rich yellow, like softened butter, the method of' 
making it is at No. 904. Stuffed oysters (Nbs. 812 
and 813) for a large party might be finished as a pan 
roast (No.841) after stuffing. Omelette wi h chicken 
livers as at No. 1150. Chicken cutlets are some- 
times flattened croquettes with a bone inserted ta 
make the ^imitation of the shape of a lamb chop 
breaded, but it is more than likely these were a. 
different and better aiticle, the cuts of chicken wiiK 



THE AMEBIOAN COOK. 



347 



the trimmed jointSi either broiled or fried as at No. 
1217. Conoemins the fillet of beef an American 
writer on dinner^giving remarks: **ODe sees a fillet 
of beef at aim at every dinner party. *That same 
fillet with muahroome/ a frequent diner-out will 
Bay. I hope io see it continued, for among the sub- 
stantials there is nothing more satisfactory.** Po- 
tato coquettes as at No. 951 would be the elegant 
style for this course. The tomatoes were most likely 
plain stewed, but stewed down rich. Broiled wood- 
cock on toast the same as quail on toast, (No. 1133.) 
Perhaps the highest effort at luxury among the 
dishes served was that which required an acquaint- 
ance with the literature of gastronomy, such as the lit- 
erary 0v)mpany present on this occasion might be ex- 
pected to poasesafora fuil appreciation of its merits, 
the dish of quail stuffed with truffles. Says Drillat 
Savarin: Of all kinds of game, properly so-called,the 
quail is perhaps the chief favorite, giving pleasure 
not only by taste but by its form and color. Only 
ignorance can excuse those who serve it up other- 
wise than roasted or en papilottes (in paper; broiled, 
twisted up in a sheet of writing paper cut to fit, or 
boned,and roaated io a paper caae), becanae ita flav- 
or is so easily lost, that if the animal is plunged in 
any liquid it evaporates and disappears. The wood- 
cock is also a bird well des rving notice, but few 
know its good points. It should be roasted under 
the eye of a sportsman, especially the sportaman who 
killed it.** It ia the stuffing of truffles that makes 
this a dish out of the ordinary way, for it does not 
matter that the truffle in itaelf ia not a thing that 
the generality of people would go wild over, leaat oi 
all the truffle that baa been canned, kept and trana- 
ported acioas the ocean, it is its association in inna* 
merable anecdotes of great and famous people, their 
feasts and presents, their diaaipation of fortunes in 
the purchase of a luxury of which the superlative 
attraction lay in the exorbitant price ii commanded, 
puttingit out of the reach at some periods of any 
but the wealthiest individuals. Says the author 
above quoted: ** Whoever says * truffle," utters a 
word associated with many enjoyments. The origin 
of the truffle is unknown; it is found, but how it is 
produced, or its mode of growth, nobody knows 
Men of the greatest skill have studied the question; 
and some felt certain they had discovered the seeds 
and thus could multiply the truffle at will. Vain 
efforts and deceitful promises I Their planting pro- 
duced no crop; and it is, perhaps, no great misfor- 
tune, for since truffles are often sold at fancy prices, 
^hey would probably be less thought of if people 
could get plenty of them and at a cheap rate. The 
glory of the truffle may now (in 1826) be said to 
have reached is culmination. Who can dare men- 
tion being at a dinner unless it had ita piece truffee 7 
However good an entree may be, it requires truffles 
to set it off to advantage. In a word, the truffle ia 
the very gem of gaatronomic materials." The aame 



author in another place outlining hia conceptions of 
what might be regarded aa third-daas, second-class 
and first-class dishes, names in the ascending order,, 
respectively, turkey stuffed with chestnuts; turkey 
f'done" (stuffed) with truffles, and truffled quails 
with marrow. 

A hotel keeper correspondent of the Natiohal ffoiel 
Rq>orter a few years ago gave his experience in tbi» 
wise: He said he had read and been interisttd in 
the stones about the truffle and ihe fondness of 
many noted people for it; had read how the onc» 
famous Haytien emperor Soulouque had beggareJ 
himself in their purchase, had read of the rich 
aroma of the truffle that had plunged royal gour- 
mands in ecstasies, particularly by the method of 
filling a quail with one large truffle, closing it and 
roasting, and serving with no other accompaniment 
but that which not only permeated the bird, but 
filled the apartment with perfume,and hepurchaaed 
some in cana — enough of them for a Chriatmas feast 
for many people— and he was disappointed. 

The truffle as he found it was not that kind of % 
tuber at all, but tame, flat, almost tasteless. Per- 
haps another remark of Brillat Savarin*s may help to 
explain the grounds of the difference between ro- 
mance and reality in this case, without even con- 
sidering the effect of the canning process, he says : 
«The best truffles in France come fr^m Perigord 
and High Provence, and it is about January they 
are in full flavor. Those of Burgundy and Dan- 
phine are inferior, being hard and wanting in fla- 
vor. Thus, there are truffles and truffles as ther» 
are 'faggots and faggots.' " 

The point we wish to make for those who get up 
banquets is, that a truffled dish, particularly a dish 
of quail stuffed with truffles, may be a far more in- 
teresting affair to persons who,like the hotel-keeper 
correspondent, have read and had their imagina- 
tions stirred by truffle stories than to those who may 
have never heard of the existence of such an edible^ 
and therein lies the use or nselessness of truffles at 
an American feast. In regard to the breakfast ia 
question at the Hotel Brans wick, it has to be re> 
marked that fresh truffles, and very good ones, ar» 
imported in Jars, without difficulty, at the time oi 
the principal truffle harvest, which is in December.. 



1214. Bralsinfir— Wliat it Means. 

Braising is that way of cooking meat in a covered 
skillet or * 'spider*' — or whatever the local name for 
the covered pot may be^by^^which the old Virginia, 
and Maryland colored cooks, *'to the manor born,*" 
make their favorite dishes so surprisingly appetiz- 
ing both by the odor while the cooking ia in pro-^ 
greaa and by the juicy tenderneas of the fowl, pig^ 
turkey or coon, or whatever else it may be when 
done. It is the way of cooking in front of an open 
wood fire over coals drawn out upon the hearth witia 



^8 



TEE AMXBICAK OOOX. 



live co^ls by the shovelfal pi'ed upon the rimmed 
lid of the oren or skillet, while the odorous steam 
shoots out in Jets from beneath, all around. If it 
were thorougblj and popuUrly understood that that 
is the meani*>g of "braised** meats in the hotel bill 
of fare, it is obvious suoh dishes would possess an 
interest for a ^est many people that they do not 
now, and, besides, there would be a sort of standard 
of compa ison to try the suooess of the hotel in imi- 
tating home cooking. The trouble eridently is that 
the word "braise** conveys no meaning whatever 
connected with edibles to American earp, and still 
there is no other, and this happens to be a proper 
term for the process. The native cooks call it 
'smotheriog/* if they give it a name at all, but 
they also call it smothering to bake a panful of 
meat in gravy in the oveo. In fact there is no 
name for braise but **cook-it-in-the-skillet," and 
that designation is a little unhandy for the purposes 
of a biU of fare. Brazier is the English, and bramer$ 
the French proper name for the camp oven or 
skillet above mentioned, a Tessel made to hold burn- 
ing chare -al upon the lid whi*e set upon a bed of 
live coa^s. Braised meats are those cooked in a 
braitiere. The French braUe, with an accent over 
the last letter, is the same as our brused. For- 
merly it was always spelled w'.th a z, and is still 
€0 met with sometimes and occasions disputes* 
The reason for the confhsion of methods may be 
found in attempted spelling reforms and certain 
lexicographical transmogrifications. 

The good of the braising process is that it cooks the 
article in super -heated steam and softens the fibres 
in a way that baking and roasting cannot effect, and 
when, at length, the water is all expelled in steam 
imparts a surface brown without drying the meat. 
The hotel cook can either carry out the process in 
proper form or imitate it with a covered vessel set 
in the oven. 



Seventh Day. 



Chicken broth. 



Braised fillet of beef , 

Chicken cutlets vnth vegetables. 

Spaghetti and tomatou — Palermetane. 

Terrapin in cases, Maryland style. 

Rice eroquetteSf sabayon saitce. 



1216. Ohioken Broth* 

2 gallons of chicken stock. 
4 cupfUls of vegetables cut small. 
2 cupfals of chicken meat in dice* 
i cupful minced parsley. 
Salt and white peppei. 
Strain off the liquor in which chickens have 
boiled, or chickens and and turkeys together. 



been 
into 



the soup pot. It will be better flavored if there has 
been a small piece of salt port boiled with them, not 
enough for decided taste but only a seasoning 
Skim off all the fat; out several sorts of vegetables, 
in very small dice and set them to boiling in the 
broth an hour before the meal. Gut she chicken in 
pieces twice as large and add it later, and the pars- 
ley last. The broth is intended to be thin and 
simple, but a bastiogspoon of mixed starch thicken- 
ing may be added to give a little substaoce. Avoid 
chopping soup vegetables if possible. Chicken meat, 
at any rate, should always be oarefdlly cut io an 
even sise. White pepper is commom black pepper 
that has had the outside hull rasped off before 
grinding. 

1216. Braised Fillet of Beef! 



Cut a pound of tU bacon or firm salt pork into 
long strips about the sise of a common pencil and 
lard a fillet of beef with them,drawing them through 
the meat ttom one side to the other with a large 
lance larding needle, and in such a slanting direc- 
tion thai the slices of fillet when cut will show the 
spots of fkt all through. Gip off the projecting ends 
to a uniform lengtli. Put the scraps of bacon into 
a deep saucepan, the fil'et on them, anonion stuck 
with cloves, a piece of turnip, celery, carrot, a bay 
leaf, and parsley, end a pint of soup stock. CoTsr 
with a sheet of oiled paper and the lid and simmer 
at the side of the range about two hours, adding 
more stock as it is needed but not enough for the 
meat to flcat in it. Then take the fillet up on a 
baking pan and brown it in the oven. Strain the 
liquur it was braised in, skim off the fat, then boil 
it down to half-g^axe and pour it over the slices of 
fillet as they are dished up. 

Beef thus permeated with the flavor of bacon and 
vegetables is no longer like plain beef but is suitable 
to be served in the middle of a dish of cabbage or 
macaroni, or with dumplings or potatoes in the same 
dish. 



The obiection against the use of the fillet or ten- 
derloin of beef for hotel dinners is that it is a scarce 
cut and is needed in every hotel much more for 
cutting into steaks for breakfast than for a* dinner 
entree. There may be no such an otjection with a 
few city hotels that have well-supplied markets at 
hand, but there are other places, particularly plea- 
sure resorts, in large numbers, where it is impossi- 
ble to purchase a fillet even for a party dinner with- 
out buying a whole quarter of beef with it. In such 
an exigency it may answer every purpose to take a 
rib roast of beef and out out the choice portion the 
whole length, like a tenderloin in shape, lard it and 
braise it tender. The appearance is the same as the 
real fillet. The remainder of the rib roast can be 
used in other ways so that there will not be much 
loss. 



THE AKEBICAK COOK. 



340 



1217. Ohioken Outlets with Veffetables. 



These are the four principal cuts of a chicken-— 
the two legs with all the meat that can be taken off 
wiihthem, and the two firet wing joints with aside 
of I he breast to each. Take them off raw. Chop 
-off the knob ends of the bone§i^ then scrape them up 
like a lamb outlet. Simmer (he cuts in broth for 
about teo mioutes, then place them in press between 
two pans with a weight on top. 

When cold remove the skin and trim them to 
look like a lamb chop. They will not retain any 
shape unless pirtially cooked as stated, and then 
made cold. Season them, dip in egg and cracker 
meal and fry in the wire-basket in a pan of hot lard. 
Only young and tender chickens can boused in this 
^ay. 

To border the dishes cut different sorts of vege- 
tables in shreds as if for Julien soup, cook them in 
water and then drain them dry and mix in some 
cream sauce. Place the cutlet in the middle. 



1218. Spaffhetti and Tomatoes— Paler- 

xnetane. 

The name of the style has reference to the city of 
Palermo in Italy. 

Spaghetti is macaroni in another form; a solid 
cord iostead of a tube. 

This is a favorite way with (he Italians. The dish 
need not be baked. They simply boil the macaroni 
and then malte it rich, not to say greasy, with the 
other articles and gravy from the meat dishes. 
1 pound of spaghetti. 

1 cupful of minced cheese. 

2 cupfuls of thick stewed tomatoes. 
2 cupfulsof brown meat gravy. 

Break the spaghetti into three-inch lengths,throw 
it into boilirg water and let cook twen'y minutes. 
Drain it, put it into a b«king pan, mix in the cheese, 
tomatoes, gravy, and if necefsary a lump of butter. 
Mix up and let simmer together about balf an hour, 
either m a slack oven or on the stove hearth. It 
will be all ea' en if not made too strong flavored 
with tomatoes or too salt — the common mistakes. 
The gravy and stewed-down tomatoes being already 
seasoned no more salt should be added to the dish. 



1210. Terrapin in Oases, Marylemd 

Style. 



. For 50 cases, 8 to 12 terrapins will be required, 
depeodiog on the size. They reach (o 7 or 8 pounds 
each in weight, ocassi nally, but yield only a fourth 
of the live weight of clear meat free from bone, for 
serving incases. Having prepared the terrapin and 
stock as directed at No. 803 cut the me'it into pieces 
size of cranberries. Keep the black fat and eggs 
separate on another dish. Boil down the liauor the 



terrapin was stewed in, thicken it, strain and re- 
duce as detailed at No. 805 and add half a pint of 
Madeira. 

Take large paper cases, brush them inside very 
slightly with dear melted butter. Mince the crumb 
of a stale loaf very fine, partially moisten with 
spoonfuls of m Ited butter poured over and stirred 
about; then line the bottom of the cases with the 
crumbs and bake them about three minutes Take 
them out, neatly fill the cases with terrapin meat, 
place the terrapin eggs and bits of fat around the 
edge and pour in the thick reduced sauce. Fifteen 
minutes before time to serve set the oases in the 
oven on a baking sheet, and send to table hot. 
There should be little cakes of fKed hominy served 
on separate dishei to complete the style. 



1220. Bloe Oroquettesi Sabayon Sauoe.J 

1 cupful of raw rice—} pound. 

8 cupfuls of water and milk. 

But!er size of an egg. 

Sugar same amount — 2 ounces. 

8 yolks of eggs. 

Little salt, and flavoring of nutmeg. 
Wash the rice and boil it with two cups of watei 
with the steam shut in. Add a cap Of milk when it 
is half cooked and let it simmer soft and dry at the 
bank of the range. Mash it a little with the spooni 
mix in the other ingredients. When cool make up 
in long rolls with flour on the hands. Fry in the 
wire basket in a deep saucepan of hot lard till lighfe 
brown. Serve with a spoonful of sabayon sauce 
thick and smooth. No. 493, or 495, which is simpler 
and good enough with rum added. 



One quart of cooked rice is equal to the quantity 
named in the above receipt, but it must be dry and 
not enriched with butter. The common annoyance 
in making croqaettes is their tendency to melt and 
fall to pieces in the fat, or at least come out eoft and 
greasy. It is owing to too much moisture in the 
mixture; but even the lea«t experienced assistant 
need not fail if the ingredients are measured. 



Study Of Notable Menus. 



Dinner at the Leland Hotel, Warren F. Leland, 
proprietor, Chicago, September, 1883. Given by 
an eminent lawyer to a visiting Lord Chief Justice. 

**The ladies' ordinary of the hotel had been trans- 
formed for the occasion ioto a bower of beauty. 
Covers were laid for seventy five persons. The 
tables were arranged in horse-shoe form. The 
Southern window of the apartment had a curtain 
literally compo«ed of emi'ax, and on the surface was 
the motto of the house of Coleridge worked in im- 
mortelles on a white carnation background, "Qualit 
Vita Finis /to*'— as the life is so the end. A wreath 



S50 



THE AMBSICAN COOK. 



eomposed cf white rosebuds was suspended fr^m 
the curtain by a white satin ribbon, and on the 
window drapery oTerhead was the motto, **Dulee est 
Desipere in Loco" — Sweet it is to play the fool at 
the right time. Around the entire room stresmers 
in gold letters on a blue background were neatly 
arranged, bearing the names prominent in English 
and American jurisprudence. 

The menu cards and accompanying inyitations 
were of the most elaborate kind and elegant speci- 
mens of typographical art." 

MENU. 

Huitres sur Coquille. 

Puree de Volaille a la Reine. 



Boudins a la Richelieu. 
GaTiar. Foies Gras. 



Filets de Pompano, Normande. 
Concombres, Pommes Duchesse. 



Roast Beef a 1' A nglaise, Yorkshire pudding. 
Selle de Ghevreuill. 



Terrapin en caisse a la Maryland. 

Supreme de ris de Yeau auz Truffes. 

Beccasines a la Joinyille. 



Sorbet a la Marquise. 



Ganvasback Duck an cresson. 
Celery. 
Olaoes. Gateaux. 
Cafe. 



The steward of the Leland Hotel is Daniel Lace; 
Chief Cook, Xavier Grosjeao; Pastry Cook and Coik- 
fectioner, Henri Born. 



TBANSLATION. 

Otsters— On shell. 

Soup — Puree or cream of fowl, or poiagt a la 
JftaVw, (No. 1203.) 

Side dishes or hobs D'oBinrBB — Cayiar — ^probably 
spread on shapes of toast (No. 721)— foiea grot — fat 
livers, goose livers, roasted in a pan with season- 
ings, trimmed and sliced cold and ornamented in 
the dish with aspic jelly. Richelieu puddings; hot 
side dish to serve in place of patties or bouchees at 
same time with the soup — boudiniBihe French word 
for pudding of the class known as black pudding, 
liyer pudding and the like — the wiley Cardinal 
Richelieu seems to have been fond of fried onions 
since all the dishes and ragouts bearing that desig- 
nation taste of them — this is a little pat of forcemeat 
like No. 961, but made with pounded chicken in- 
' stead of fish, a spoonful of a mixture of light fried 
minced onions, niu8hroom8,and truffles inside.egged 
over the top; ornamented, and cooked by steaming 
a short time. 

Fish — Pompnno (No. 902) split and doubtless 
broiled, with Normandy sauce, a 70II0W hot sauce 



like soft butter, sharp with lemon juice, made like- 
HoUandaise with parsley added— cucumbers- 
duchess potatoes (No. 957). 

Removes — Beef and Yorkshire pudding (No.l204) 
—saddle of ehevreuilt which is roebuck in particular 
and stands for venison in general. 

Entrees — Terrapin in cases (No. 1219) — ^supreme 
of veal sweetbreads with truffle*, same as No. 1226 
in the main, subject to the cook's own style of dish- 
ing — sripe with truffle sauce. 

Vegetables. 

Punch — a la Marquise— receipt furnished by Mr. 
Grosjean: 2 qts ripe peaches chopped: 1 J lbs sugar; 
8 qts water; 1 qt maraschino; 1 pt kirsch. 

RoTi— 4»nvas-back duck with cre?s (No. 1072) — 
the Sauth K<>nsiDgton authority states the case 
about cress with roast fowls or game birds this way; 
"The fashion of serving bread sauce with roasted 
turkey or g%me is unknown on the con'inent, and 
the French are especially intolerant of our *panade/ 
as they term bread sauce. JEn revanche, the E-^g- 
lish will not accept water-cress as the best accom- 
paniment to roast chicken, quails, or partridges. 
Nevertheless it is a delicious and appropriate accom- 
paniment, and one we shall do well to adopt, at least 
by way of a change.*' 

Salad— celery. 

Cakes, ices, coffee, brandy. 



1221. Supremes— What they Are. 

A iupreme of fowl takes that name from the satic9- 
supreme that is poured over the meat. The pieces 
natoraliy enough are built up in srme regular form 
wh^n it is one large dish served for a party, but it 
is still supreme of fowl when it is but one fillet trim* 
med to a pear shape laid on the individual dish, 
masked over with the rich sauce and ornamented with, 
whatever goes with it at that time — green peas, 
asparagus heads or black truffles. 

This is worthy of more than a passing notice be- 
cause the supreme de volaille is such a favorite, evi- 
dently, with great people of the Old World; among- 
those who esteem stewed meats above the roast, and 
who follow the Oerman-French styles of Bernard 
and Dubois. The reader of this book will find the 
supreme occurring frequently in the specimen menus 
in our book of salads. At a dinner for the the two 
emperors in Potsdam it appears as **filets depoulets 
aux points d* asperses, sauce supreme;*' for the royal 
family of Italy it is **poulards auz points d* asperses;'* 
for the imperial family of France it is '* supreme de 
oolailU aux points d^asperges',' at a dinner of Presi- 
dent Buchanan's at Washington it is "supreme de 
volaille aux truffes;'* and it appears thus frequently 
in every collection of fine bills of fare. 

As above remarked, these dishes of chicken, or 
whttever else, take the name of supreme Arom the 
sauce of that name, and it is simply the richest 
white Eauce that can be made. It is oream-oolored» 



THB AMERICAN COOK. 



351 



made by boiling down clear chicken broth to a jelly, 
boiling down mushrooms in broth to an equal 
strength, adding white bntter-and flour thiokeoing 
(ronx), boiling, 8traming,and then some rich cream. 
The chicken must be first cooked, then made cold 
80 that it can be trimmed to a pymmetrical ^hape, 
then made hot shortly before it is wanted in sea- 
soned brolh. The sauce is bright and glossy and 
joBt thick enough to remain on a piece of meat and 
ooat it without being quite a paste, then the aspara- 
gOB heads or cut truffles are placed upon or around 
it in the way to nroduce the most ornamental 
^ffoct. 



1223. Ocklf 8 Head in Omelet. 



Eiffhth Day. 



Cream of cuparagtu ioup. 



Calf% head in omeUt, 

Small chicken pies, French style. 

Macaroni and cheese — Bechamel. 

Supreme of sweetbreads, with truffles. 

Pineapple fritters^ curacoa sauce. 



1222. Oream of Asparafims Soup. 



This soup can be made at any time of the year, 
irith either canned asparagus or fresh, while the 
puree of asparagus can only be made properly when 
the fresh ^Tegetable can be obtained and cooked 
green for the purpose. This is a nearly white 
Htt^am soup with asparagus heads and Conde crusts 

6 quarts of soup Etcck. 

8 quarts of asparagus, raw, cut in pieces, or 2 
cans. 

A small knuckle bone of ham. 

1 tablespoonful of sugar. 

j^ cupful of minced onion. 

1 blade of mace. 

8 quarts rich milk. 

^ pound of butter — a cupful. 

\ pound of flour — 2 cupfuls. 

White pepper and salt. 
Draw off the soup stock already lightly seasoned 
with Tegetables; set on to boil with the knuckle 
bone or a slice of ham or dry salt pork, onion, mace 
twd some crhite pepper. Cut off the asparagus peas, 
or green ends of the heads, and keep them separate* 
and boil the rest in the stock about an hour. 

Meantime take the milk, butter and] flour 
and make cream sauce of them (No. 981). Then 
strain the soup into the regular soup pot, rub the 
asparagus pulp through a strainer into it, put in 
the cream sauce, salt and the asparagus heads, 
whieh, if canned, will be all ready, if not eook them 
In the soup about 15 miontes. 

Have brown crusts ready ^s same as for bean 
^up and place a few in each plate. 



Split the head carefully, dividing the joints with 
the cleaver but sawing through the rest to preserve 
the tongue and brains, which take out and, after 
washiog, cook the brains and keep them ready. 

Steep the head in water, wash well, then cook in 
the stock boiler, allowing from one to two hours, ac-> 
cording to sixe. When tender take it up into a pan 
of cold water and remove the bones. Having drain- 
ed it from the water dredge with salt and pepper, 
sprinkle with the juice of a lemon, and lay each 
half, skin downwards, in a frying pan slightly bat- 
tered. 

For each ha^f of the head make an omelet of 5 
oggs, mix in a fourth their bulk of soup stock, add 
salt and pepper, beat up and then add the brains, 
cut small and pour into the frying pan around the 
calf s head. 

Bake on the botton of the oven about fifteen min- 
utes, or until the omelet is set and light brown. 

Turn it upside down and out of the pan on to a 
dish and serve by cutting slices of the meat and 
omelet together. Pour a little veal gravy on tho 
meat. 



1224. Small Ohidken Pies— Frenob Style. 



The meat of four fowls. 

1 quart of brown butt ei sauce. 

1 quart of potato balls (Parisienne). 

2 tablespoonf uls of minced parsley. 
Seasonings. 

85 oval flats of puff paste. 

Gut four pounds of cooked ehicken meat into 
slices an inch long and all of one thickness* Make 
a quart of sauce by lightly browning ^ cup of butter 
and rather more of flour togethex in the oven, and 
thickening a quart of chicken broth with it; strain 
it, add a grating of nutmeg, salt, pepper, parsley, 
the shred chicken, mix all, and keep hot. 

Cut thin flats of puff paste about three inches 
long; brush the tops with egg and water, bake a nice 
color and when done split them into top and bottom. 
Cook the potato balls as at No. 968. 

When time to serve place a bottom omst of pastry 
in the individual dish, and a good spoonAxl Of 
chicken in sauce upon it and the top crust on that 
and a spoonful of notato balls around. 



1225. Macaroni emd Oheeee.— Beohcunel. 

1 pound of macaroni. 

1 cupful of minced cheese; 

\ cupful of butter. 

6 onpfuls of water. 

1 bastingspoon of flour thiokeniog. 

4 eggs. 

8 oupfhls of oream saoQe* 



352 



THB AXBBICAK COOK. 



Salt. Parsley. 

This is yellow maoaroni and cheese baked.with 
a white parsley sauoe for a top layer. 

Boil the macaroni by itself first, throwing it into 
water ibat is already boiling and salted. Let it 
cook only 20 minutes. Then drain it dry and put it 
into a pm or ba^iog dish holding three quarts. 

Chop the cheese, not Tcry fine, and mix it with 
the macaroni, likewise the butter. Beat the eggs, 
water and spoonfiil of thickening together, pour 
them oTcr the macaroni and set the pan in the oTon 
to bake. 

While it is getting hot boil a pint of milk and 
thicken it like cream sauce and add chopped pars- 
ley. Pour it oTcr the macaroni without mixing and 
bake a little color on top. 

This makes a yery attractive dish; the yellow 
cheese and custard showing up in spots among the 
white narsley sauce. 



1226. Supreme of Sweetbreads with 

Truffles. 

Parboil oaWes sweetbreads that are large enough 
to split the flat way and press them between two 
dishes until cold. Draw fine strips of fat baoon 
through with a small larding needle. Split in 
halves, trim to shape, simmer in butter and a few 
spoonfuls of broth, with a little lemon juice and 
bunch of parsley, until done, or about 20 minutes. 

Place a little foundation of boiled rice (spread on 
another dish and cut out with a cutter) in each in- 
diyidual dish, a sweetbread with it and the sauoe 
(No. 1221) poured over. 

Have ready some black truffles out in slices and 
stamped to some shape with a fancy vegetable cut- 
ter. Shake them up in the dear part of melted 
butter in a pan over the fire, and place the shapes 
as aa ornamental border oareAilly upon the white 
•aoce. 



1227. Pineapple ^tters with Ouraooa. 

To make the old style firying batter with ale take: 
4 cupfuls of flour. 

1 cupful of ale. 

2 eggs. 

1 tablespdbnftil of sugar dissolved in the ale. 
8 tablespoonfuls of melted lard. 

Put all in a pan at once and stir up thoroughly. 
Let stand an hour before using and the ale will 
make the batter light. 

Drain slices of canned pineapple from their juice* 
dip in batter and fry in hot lard. Drain, and break 
off the rough edges. 

When curaeoa is added to a starch syrup (No. 
490) it changes the color to a beautiful rose pink. 



Study of Notable Menus. 

Dinner at the Gait House, Louisville, Ky., A. E» 
Cooper, manager. Tendered by the Bar AssociatioD- 
to a visiting Lord Chief Justice, October, 1888 

MENU. 
Shell Oysters. haut babsac. 

Celery. 



Consomme Imperial, qubkn shbb&t. 



Broiled Pompano, Venitienne. haitt SAUTBunk. 
Hollandaise Potatoes. 
Soft Shell Crabs, Chancellor Sauce 



Supreme of Chicken with Truffles, papb climviit. 

French' Peas. 



Roast Fillet of Beef, Sauce Bernaise. 
Cauliflower. qibblbb spbcial sbo^ 



OHAXPAGlfB PUHOH. 



<« 



Roast Saddle of Kentucky Mutton. 

Puree of Turnips and Mashed Potatoes. 
Boast Grouse, Game Sauoe 



«( 



Pastry. Cheese. 

Vanilla Ice Cream. 



Fruits in Season. 



Cafe. 



COGNAC YIBBOB.. 



C0MMB1IT8. 

Chfuomme in^erial is a sort of diplomatic broth, 
apparently, for it was named imperial when France 
was under the empire, and consomme royal when 
emperors wen\ out and kings oame in — in other 
words, consomme imperial and consomme royal ara- 
the same thing; a brandy-colored clear soup with 
little egg custards floating in the plates. Fish a l<t 
VeniUenne is the Dubois style of a la Maitre d'hoUT* 
the refined form of butter, lemon Juice and parsleys 
in combination to form a sauoe. These menus are* 
|n plain language, however, but something else 
needs to be named. 



It is often a matter of regret in presentiog thes» 
specimen bills of fare that they have to be so entire, 
ly divested of the attractiveness that the engravers 
and printers have bestowed upon the original card. 
Our own purpose is f^lly subserved when it is showa 
what dishes to choose for any particular occasion 
and how they are to be prepared, but beyond that 
there is a vast amount of ingenuity and taste to be- 
exeroised in making a handsome menu. 

Thus, the bill of the Grand Pacific banquet, a few 
pages back, was printed with large script for the- 
principal dishes, and small script for thsTegetablee 
and accompaniments, on two fine white cards joined: 



THE AXEBICAK COOK. 



353 



by white satin cla«p9. That of the Leland was a 
costly souveoir of the occasion which the guests re- 
Uined. The Brunsw'c'c of B ston regularly prints 
the nimes of dishes in lines of small capitals and 
adds the sty'e or aecompaDimeoi in small print. 
The Oali House is preeminent for the variety , as 
well Bs be uty of its meous, erery thing that is 
brought out in the way of fine cards and specialties 
inTented for particular occasions being called into 
requisition for its luncheons, dinners and special 
parties. Thrse things, of course, constitute an- 
other department of the business of preparing a 
banquet which we can only mention but not do 
justice to. 



Ninth Day. 
Old plantation vegetable soup. 



Begulsr dinner bill of the Gait House: 

TABLE D'HOTE. 
6 to 8 p. m. 



Sunday, Novbmbbr 14th, 1888 

eaw otstmbs. 
Celery. 

SOUP. 

Cream of Celery 

FISH. 

Broiled Whitefish, Maitre d*Hotel Sauce. 

BOILBD. 

Toung Capn with Egg Sauce. 

BOAST. 

TooBg Pig, Apple Sauce, Loin of Beef, au jus, 

Toung Turkey, Cranberry Sauce, 

Saddle of Veal with Dressing. 

(galt house punch.) 

SALADS. 

Potato Lobster. Italian. 

■ntbbks. 

Cntlets of Lamb with French Peas, 

Maoaroni and Cheese, Sauce Tomato, 

Banana Fritters, Sherry Wine Saoce. 

yeobtables. 

Boiled Onions, Boiled Rice. Stewed Tomatoes, 
Sugar Corn, Boiled and Mashed Potatoes. 

PASTE7. 

Steamed Raisin Pudding, Hard Sauce. 
Apple Custard Pie. Peach Pie. Assorted Cake. 

chbbsb. 
Roquefort, Edam American. 

dbssebt. 
Charlotte Russe, Taffy Candy, 

Strawberry Ice Cream, Fruit in Season. 

Coffee. 

Galt House, LouisTille; Ky, 



Smothered rabbit, country style. 
Backbone stew, egg dumplings. 
Baked com custard. 
Pumpkin bread. 



The Steward of the Galt House is Charges Astor 
Howard; Chief Cook, Frank Rhul; Pastry Cook and 
Confectioner; John Theobald. 



1228. Old Plantation Vegetable Soup* 

This plain soup lacks the elemeot of mystery 
which makes the bouilabaisse and garbure of Prov- 
ence, the olla podrida ftnd gaspacho of Spain, the 
/n7ajf4>f Turkey and ih^ouka of Russia, — not to in- 
clude the Mexican stew of green chilies, tomatoes 
and com — strike such an impression in print, but 
as long as a soop is considered in the light of some- 
thing which people like to eat this one will continue 
to "take the cake.'* 

Not necessary to have any stock but, early in the 
morning, put into a hrge boiler. 

All the marrow out of a leg bone of beeft 
4 gallons of cold water. 

1 large fowl, a beef tongue, a chine of Aresb 
pork, three or four pigs feet, a piece of pickled 
pork — one or two or all of them acco*'ding to what 
may be on hand at the time, but never put in any 
mutton. 

All the Bonp beef besides that the water will 
cover. 

Some more marrow out of the broken bones. 

Let it stew four hours. 

Theo take out themeat and cut up portions of sny 
kind that is not fat; about a quart; and put it in 
the soup, also, 

Onions, turnips, cauliflower, celery, or any vege* 
tables except carrots and bees — about a cupful of 
each. 

1 pint of tomatoes cut in pieces, 
pint of corn, 
pods of red pepper chopped. 

^ A small bunch of garden herbs — thyme, mar- 
joram and parsley. 

Let boil until the vegetables are done, then add » 
pint of floui and water thickening and salt to taite* 

There is a good deal of needless anxiety in so mo 
places to remove every particle of grease from the 
top of the soup, some going so far as to u«e bio tin^ 
paper and, perhaps, a microscope, to find (he most 
minute particles. They would fail if they were to 
try to find such a honor of the fat that shines in 
spots on I he surface of a good plate of soup amonfp 
the people who consume it. Most people like fat 
beef, fat fowls, fat butter, and seem to be quite 
tolerant of a little fat — marrow-fat — on their soup 
ih%t (hey sup with bread aod crackers. However, 
it is a matter of (as(e, perhaps of training, and in 
any case we do not want fat by the spoonful in oar 
tureen. 



S54 



THE AMEBIOAir COOK. 



1220. Smothered Babbits, Oountry 

Style. 

Take eight rabbits and chop off the heads, feet 
«nd t'ia ribs, and diyide them each into six cuts; 
the two legs, two shoulders, and two pieces of back. 
Keep back the pieces of young rabbit, if they can 
be know a by their smaller size. Boil the large onog 
in a pot of seasoned stock about two hours, then put 
in the young ones and let stew half an hour longer, 

^ ke up the pieces into a bakiog pan, put in half 
« cup of butter and a cup of milk, dredge with saU 
«nd pepper and flour and set in a hot OTen. It is 
ftn object to get a brown outside on the pieces of 
rabbit as quickly as possible, which is the purpose 
of the milk and butter, for they both ciuse a quick 
brown. If not so managed the meat is dry and 
stringy and nobody cares for it. When slightly 
colored on all sides pour in the remainder of the 
liquor the rabbits were stewed in and serre it as 
giavy with each dish. 



1230. Backbone Stew» Egg Dumplin^rs. 

2 pork backbones. 
4 leaves of sage. 
1 onion. 

1 teaspoonful of minced red pepper. 

2 cups of milk. 
Flour thickening. 

2 eggs and 2 cups of flour for dumplings. 

Chop the backbones in pieces and wash in cold 
water to get rid of the splinters of bone. 

Boil about 2 hours in water, just enough to 
ooTer, with the seasonings in it, and when boiled 
down low put in the milk and thicken to the con- 
sistency of cream. 

To make the ribbon dumplings, mix two raw 
eggs with an equal amount of cold water, add a 
little salt and stir in flour enough to make dough. 
Knead on the table, roll out as thin as the back of a 
knife and cut in narrow ribbons with a rolling 
paste-jagger; divide in suitable lengths, drop into a 
saucepan of boiling water and cook about 10 min. 
utes. 

Dish up the stew in deep dishes and place the 
dumplings on top with a fork. They are yellower, 
and easier to place if cooked separately this way 
than if mixed in the stew. 



1231. Baked Com Oustard. 



2 cans of corn — dry, solid packed. 
^ cup of buttei. 
1 rounded teaspoonful of salt. 
i teaspoonful of white pepper. 
6 eggs. 

1 quart of milk. 
ISmpty the corn into a pan and mash it a little; 



melt the butter and stir it in; mix eggs and milk 
together, stir them into the corn, put in a 4^uart 
pan and bake until Just Curly set in the middle* 
Too loDg baking makes it watery. 



1232. Pumpkin Bread. 

Bake a pumpkin in large pieces in order to get 
pulp Tery dry. Mix with the mashed pulp all the 
corn meal it will take up, adding a little salt and a 
little lard, or some small broken crackliogs from the 
renderiog kettle, if in the season. Take up large, 
spoonfuls and place them shaped like goose eggs in 
a greased pan and bake about an hour. 



Tenth Day. 

ChnBomme rnth vegetable. 



. Beef a la mode. 
Mutton ehope breaded, tomato sauee. 
Hot epiced pigs feet. 
HuUed corn and milk. 



1233. Oonsoxnme with Vegetables. 



This is a clear soup with plenty of yegetables in 
it and they should be of as many different colors 
and kinds as may be convenient, leaving out toma- 
toes, which make all soups alike, but including red 
carrots, yellow ruta-bagas, white turnips, green 
string beane, celery, peas, cauliflower, salsify, cab- 
bage, lettuce,leeks,onions, and either green or salted 
oucumbers. Only a small quantity of each kind is 
wanted; about half a carrot, half cupful of peas,and 
so forth; the idea being that a yegetable soup can b« 
made at any season with whateyer kinds may b« 
within reach. Take, for proportions, 

2 gallons of clear soup stock. 

1 quart of hard Tegetables cut up. 

1 quart of green vegetables. 

8 tablespoonfuls of corn starch. 

Salt and pepper. 
Praw off the stock clear firom thb stock boiler 
through a fine strainer and set it on the back of the 
range. 

Gut, first, some string beans into little diamond 
shapes and then cut all the other Tegetables as near 
like them as possible (you can't get an assistant to 
do that any more than you can to out julien vege 
tables fine, or soup nudles). 

Boil those that take longest to cook first, in a 
saucepan alone, drain away the water and the 
strong taste and put the Tegetables in the soup along 
with the cauliflower and peas, cabbage or lettuce 
and let boil until done. 

If the clear soup seems not very rich stir up a 
little starch with a pint of cold stock and add at 
last. It giTcs apparent substance without destroy- 
ing its clearness. 



THE AXBBIGAK COOK. 



355 



We give the following more space than it is really 
irorth in deference to the curious interest in the 
•name we have found among hotel cooks. 



Beef a la mode appears to be a dish of English 
origin. The French would h%Te called it a la mode 
Anglaiae — 'Sn the English fashion" — and then 
shortened it to a F Antflaite or^ a la moc/« something 
else, and not have stopped at mode. The English 
always were good at cooking rounds of beef plain, 
and perhaps this was the first attempt they made 
to do it up in a French style, It seems to have first 
«ome into repute in Prince Bladud's city of Bath. 
It proved to be pretty g^.od, all things considered, 
l)ut there are several spurious dishes passing under 
the same name; one we find is contemptuously al- 
luded to by an English cook as "the hashed meat of 
the eating houses." Another, or possibly the same 
thing, is a brown stew of small pit$ces of beef; an- 
other is beef stuffed with Teal and oysters, and so 
it goes. But the following is unquestionably the 
Teal beef a la mode. 



1234. Beef a la Mode. 



A way of making a tough piece of lean beef tender 
'«nd well flaTored: 

Take a solid lean piece of beef that is not tender 
-enough to cut into first-class steaks; and about as 
large as a common leg of mutton. 

1 pound of fat bacon or dry salt pork cut in thick 
strips. 

Some mixed spices in a plate to roll the strips of 
bacon in. 

1 cupful of chopped onions. 

4 cloves of garlic. 

8 bay leaves. 

1 pint of ale. 

} pint of common red wine. 

1 teaspoonful black pepper. 

Same of salt, and a pinch of cayenne. 

Soup stock or water to coyer the meat. 
There shonld be in the kitchen a glass jar of pre- 
pared spices and herbs as directed at No. 789, if 
there is not mix some cloves, mace, allspice and 
herbs in a plate, roll the strips of salt bacon in the 
miiture, then insert tbem in the beef by means of a 
large lance larding nerd r. Put the scraps remain- 
ing in a deep saucepan with the other articles 
named, except the stock, and the beef on top, cover 
with the lid and let dimmer until it is nearly dry, 
then put in water or stock to come level with the top 
of themeaS cover down, and keep it gently boiling 
at the back of the range 5 or 6 hours. Turn it over 
once or twice. When the beef is thoroughly tender 
talie it up and strain the liquor that remains, skim 
9ff all the fat, and rpduce it by boiling to the fich- 
ness of melted jelly. Slice the meat crosswise of 



the larding and pour a little of the sauce over each 
slice. If you use no cooking wine add a apoonfulof 
▼inegar. 



Beef a la mode is in better demand for a cold dish 
at lunch than hot f r dinner. 

The way unskilled cooks spoil it, generally, is by 
letting it boil dry and begii to brown at the bottom, 
when the oniona and spices make an unpleasant 
taste, and, again, by serving it with common brown 
sauce instead of its own glaze. Another error is the 
addition of carrots and celery in excess of what may 
be in the stock There may be people somewhere in 
the wo* Id as excessively fond of carrots as some 
French cooking directions would lead us to belieye, 
still it is a perpetual wonder why they never come 
to American hotels. There is no surer way of get- 
ting a dish left unoonsumed than to crowd into it 
the peck of carrots, turnips and celery that some of 
the teachers advise. 



A way of procuring more of the glaie or gravy 
for'a dish like the foregoing, or the scollops of beef 
at No. 1199, is to stew some soup beef in a separate 
saucepan and boil down the liquor nearly dry, then 
add it to the other. 



1236. Mutton Chops Breaded, Tomato 

Sauce. 

Cut and trim mutton chops as if for broi'ing; 10 
or 12 may be enough for a dinner entree. 

Break two eggs in a pan, add ha'f aq much water, 
beat together, dip the chops in it and then in crack- 
er meal. Press on a go ;d coating without rubbing 
bare spots for the grease t) get in. Lay the chops 
in the wire basket and dip into lard that is hot 
enough to hiss. Cook about 6 minutes. T mato 
sauce. No. 1120. 



The best way to bread any article without using 
eggs is to mix together one-third flour and two- 
thirds bf'acker meal. Dip the piece of meat in it, 
then in a p^ale of milk, then in the mixture again, 
and let lie a few minutes before dropping it in the 
hot fat. Milk takes on a better brown color than a 
wetiiogwith water wauld nfford. 



1236. Hot Spioed Pigrs* Feet. 

The same as a la vinaigrette. Boneless pigs' feet 
in a pearl-colored sauce. 

Put on a pint of clear broth or stock, half a pod of 
red pepper minced in it and half a cupful of vine- 
gar. When it boils thicken it with flour to the 
consis'ency of thin cream. 

Throw in a tablespoonful of green pickle and tha 
same of capers, and a little salt. 

Have reaiy some shapes stamped out of slices of 
beets in vinegar, and a saucer with minced yolks of 
eggs, or minced parsley, and ornament the dishes 
I with them as they g-) in. 



356 



THB AXBBIGAir COOK. 



Hulled Com or Home Mckle 
Hominy. 



Steep a qoart of white oorn in weak lye for two 
dajTB, wtah in two waters and boil about 4 hours or 
until .tender. The lye from the leach of wood asheg 
is the kind generally used, but a weak solution of 
concentrated lye will answer and if that is notsTul- 
able mix a hindful of baking soda in water enough 
to coTor the com twice oyer end let steep in that. 
Wash well before cooking, eat with ealt and mnk. 



In most large towns there are persons who make 
a business of supplying eating hooses and hotels 
with the lunch and breakilut dish of hulled com 
ready prepared. 

Leland HoteL 



LUNCU. 



Oatmeal and Milk Buttermilk 

Mush and Milk Cracked Wheat and Milk 
Graham Bread Plain Bread ~^ French Bread 
Dry, Buttered and Cream Toast 
Hulled Corn and Milk 

BOUP 

Consomme 



OTSTKBS 



Baw 



Stewed 



HOT DISHES 

Beef a la Mode 
Mutton Chops Breadedi Tomato Sauce 

COLD MEATS. 

Boast Beef Turkey Boneless Pigs* Feet Tongue 

Potato Salad Corned Beef Chicken Salad 

Ham Chipped Beef Sardioes 

Pickled Lambs' Tongue 

Boston Baked Beans. 



Mashed Potatoes 
Boiled Rice 

OHtss 
Pickled Cibbage 



Boiled PoUtoes 
Stewed Tomatoes 



Cake 



lee Cream 



Chow Chow 
Pickled Beets 

Fruit 



Ooiong, Black and Green Tea 
Chocolate Coffee with Cream 

Chicago, November 18, 1888. 



breakfast at the hour when others take lunch, and 
a good many people take dinner. 



Among all the published bills of fare hss anyone 
«Ter seen one of a hotel midday lunch? Here are 
two specimen cards. The regular Leland Hotel 
bill of fkre is not in French lilie that of their ban* 
quet, but is as easy to read as this. There is an 
•▼ident provision made for those wno take their 



These luncheon cards are changed and printed 
anew every day, the same as the dinner bills. A 
number of such dishes as are used for these informal 
meals, and equally good fir breakfast and supper» 
are found described in this and the adjoining p^ges. 
Specimens of breakfsst and supper cards will follow 
further on. 



COMMBHTS. 

These meals, it is seen, bring into requisition a. 
number of those dishes that have delighted the 
hearts of all gourmands fri-m Babe'ais down (and 
the monks of St. Menehould might now be forgottca 
if it were noi for the reputation they gained for 
their fried pigs* feet) but which for some ciuse do. 
not seem floe enough for the dinner bill of fare. 
They are none the loss necessary for the cook to^ 
know and practice. In many hotels the same list 
of 8econd4ry dishes is used to serve at supper, th» 
regular dinner being in the middle of the day. The 
writer had business at a northern summer resort 
house a short time ago where three entrees of some 
kind were s rved at every supper, besides the usual 
supper dishes. In the South a similar variety of 
stews and minor dishes prevails at breakfast instead 
of supper. 

Consomme paytanne is soup or broth in country 
style; a clear vegetable soup the same as No. 1288. 
But the distinctions are so nearly without a differ- 
ence that the addition or omission of lettuce or cab- 
bage is sufficient to change the name. 

This bill of fare has choice dishes enough for an. 
elegant Sunday dinner. 



LUNCHEON. 

1 to 2:80 p.m. 

SuHDAT, October 21, 1888. 

SOUP. 

Consomme Paysanne 

^ENTREES. 

Fried Chicken, Cream Sauce 

Fillet of Beef Larded, Mushroom Dressing 

(OBAKOE WATER ICE.) 
SALADS. 

Mayonnaise of Shrimp Celery 

COLD DISHES. 

spiced Pigs* Feet Ham Tongue 

VEGETABLES. 

Baked Potatoes Boiled Bioe 



Potato 
Roast Beef 
Fried Cora 



Fruits in season. 
Tea Coffee 

Dinner from 6 to 8 p. m. 
Galt House, Louisville, Ky. 



Mil)r 



357 



1237 a. Devils— What They Are. 

It seems probable Ihere would be no deTiU now 
if it were not fur the packere of canned meats; the 
latter daj tendeocj to pick and out oat and banish 
glyoeriDate, mollify or rmoith over all the strong 
words woold prevent these dishes oyer being men- 
tioned to ears polite if it were not for the rows of 
cans of deyilled ham^deyilled turkey, chicken,crabs, 
and the like, seen on the shelves at the proTision 
stores. We don't know where these packers find 
the authority for calliog such meats devilled; in this 
case they are simply finely minced and seasoned,all 
ready for spreadiog in sandwiches; dcTlUed crab 
and lobster as sold in these closed tin cans are only 
the selected meat cut small, and ready to be season, 
•d, and yariously prepared for the table. Proper 
deyils, howcTer, are broils or grills. Sir Walter 
Soott in Ouy Mannering takes the reader into a hotel 
kitchen in Edinburgh, *'frhere a number of cooks 
were employed in roasting devils on a gridiron.*' 
In Lever's Tom Burke, one officer asks another to 
oome and take a devilled bone and a kidney with 
him, and in numberless instances we find mentioned 
Indian devils, wet devils and dry devils, devilled 
ohickens, pigeons, rabbits, spareribs and everythiog 
that can be^roiled, for they ^tre always broils or 
grills ( fffill is the French for gridiron), the Indian 
devil being seasoned with hot East India sauces, the 
dry devil being simply broiled chicken on toast 
without a sauce. Siogular that the true devils of 
half a century ago should be so completely banished 
and get so completely replaced by such new loves 
as crabe dressed au yrattnand termed devils without 
reason. Should a customer come along, however, 
one of the old school, or one used to the London 
club house dishes, and call for a devilled kidney, or 
«ven a devilled woodcock, he will simply want it 
broiled, with butter, salt and pepper for sauce. 



Eleventh Day. 



Chicken gumbo wup. 



Devilled ham^^old etyle* 

Young rabbit toith Soubise sauce. 

Macaroni and eheeee -^American. 

Frieaueed oyster 9 in border, 

French toastt wine sauce. 



1288. Ohioken GKimbo Soup. 

One of the first things required of a cook who 
goes south is to make the different sorts of okra 
soups. Okra is the seed pod of a tall garden plant. 
It is cooked as a vegetable, also, just the same as 
siring brans. When the pods are youug they will 
dt. solve in boiling into a kind of gum and make the 



soup smooth and thick; the slices cut thin need not 
be stitkined out. But when the older pods are 
brought to the kitchen they can still be used for 
soup if no better can he had, and the soup must be 
stVained afterwards, because they will not b'^il quite 
tender. The same with sliced and dried okra. It 
can also be bought in cans, and better yet in bottles 
in the form of a green powder called file gumbo, 
(pronounced /eZoy and meaning dried). It will be 
understood from this that the exact amount to use 
cannot be stated, but the cook will put in according 
to the kind. There should be boiled rice as a vege- 
table the same day. 

8 quarts of soup stock. 

I large fowl. 

4 slices of ham or salt pork. 

2-qnart panful of sliced okra. 

} cupful of mioced onion. 

1 bayleaf. 1 pod of red pepper. 

1 cupful of flour. 
Boil the fowl in the soup stock or stock boiler 
until tender, then let it get cold and after that cut 
it into neat small pieces. Fry (saute) the slices of 
ham and pieces of chicken in the same pan together 
until they are brown, then put them into the soup 
pot (there is always a second pot that your soups are 
finally brought together and finished in) to wait till 
the stock is seasoned and thickened in the other. 
Put the flour into the firying pan and brown it in the 
ham fat, setting it in the oven if necessary, then. 
emp*y the contents into the soup and add the onion, 
bayleaf and pepper. Boil half an hour. Strain 
into the soup pot where the piecrs of chicken are^ 
add the sliced okra and boil slowly about an hour 
longer, skimming off the fat as it rises at the side. 
It is a dark green soup. Put a tablespoonful of 
boiled rice in each plate as it is served. Take out 
the slices of ham, but serve the pieces of chicken in 
the soup. 



1230. De-vUled Ham— Old Style. 



Old style is a tancienne in French, and new style- 
is a /a modeme. 

This is a good dish for a stop-gap for days when 
there is nothing in market, or eitra arrivals after aa 
insufficient dinner has been prepared. 

10 slices of ham or shoulder. 

} cupful of butter. 

1 tablespoonful of dry mustard. 

1 teaspoonful of black pepper. 

1 cucumber pickle minced. 
^ } cupftil of vinegar and water. 

Broil the ham nicely over the coals. Mix all th» 
other articles in a bright tin pan together and drop 
the hot slices of ham on top. When all are mingled 
and at boiling heat there will be a thick, yellow^ 
pungent sauce in the pan and more slices of hank 
can be added as wanted. 



358 



THE AMEBIOAK COOK. 



1240. Stewed Babbit, Soubise Sauoe. 

Cat rabbits in joints oyer night and steep in oold 
water to wliiten them. Stew tender, lime acoordiDg 
to age, and have the liquor they stew in highly sea- 
soned with salt and pepper, and if a piece of bacon 
in it all the better. 

Meantime make the white onion sauce by chop* 
piog onions small and stewing in water until tender 
enough to mash, then put them through a coarse 
. strainer or seive, add salt and milk to the puree, 
boil and thicken so that a spoonful poured over the 
piece of rabbit in the dish will remain and coat it 
over. 



Sauce Soubise, or cream of onions, is named for 
its reputed inyentor, the Prince de Soubise, else- 
where already referred to in this book. From this 
onion sauce, as a starting point, we find seyeral 
other dishes labelled a la Soubise because they con- 
tain onions in excess, such as onion soups both 
white and brown, and fowls stuffed with onions. 
The Prince thus made famous, rescued from the 
oblivion into which all his friends and companions 
are faded and gone, is mentioned in a note to the 
Scottish Chiefs as haying been, on the French side, 
presentat the battle in which "Prince Charlie," of 
Scotland, met his final defeat, and his teot was 
found as full of perfumes and toilet articles and 
all sorts of foppish appliances as an ordinary lady's 
•boudoir. 



I24I. Macaroni and Oheese—Plain. 

1 pound of macaroni. 

1 cupful of minced cheese. 

.} cupful of butter. 

1 quart of water or milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of fiour. 

2 eggs. Salt. Cracker-meal. 

Break the macaroni into finger lengths and tarow 
it into a saucepan of boiling water. * When it has 
cooked 20 minutes pour all into a colander to drain. 

Put it in a 2-quart pan, mix the cheese and butter 

with it. Mix the fiour smooth and add it to the 

water or milk, then the eggs and some salt, and 

pour it to the mac%roDi. Slfl cracker-meal on top. 

Bake brown on top. Dish out with a spoon. 
The use of a little fiour sares eggs and id an ad- 

▼antage; but the dish of macaroni should neyer be 

dry and solid enough to cut in blocks. The quality 

of the cheese used also makes a great difference. 

1241 a. Fricasseed Oysters in Border. 

Scald the oysters in their own liquor. Strain the 
liquor Arom them into another saucepan, add an 
equal quantity of milk and a little salt and cayenne. 
When it boils add a little thickening, then two yolks 
of eggs and juice of half a lemon. Soon as it shows 
«igns of boiling again put in the oysters. 

Cut oTal rings of puff paste and bake them, same 



as tartlets, in a pan. Place one such ring or bor* 
der in the dish and fill with the yellow fricassee. 

1241 b. French Toast, Wine Sauce. 

20 slices of bread. 
1 cupful of milk. 

1 tablespoDuful of fiour, 

2 or 8 yolks of eggs. 

8 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Mix the fiour gradually with the milk in a pan, 
(or use a largo spoonful of thickening instead) add 
the yolks well beaten. This is not a batter, bat only 
thick as cream. 

Dip one side of slicss of bread in the mixture, 
place them with the dipped side up in a battered 
baking pan, dredge granulated sugar oyer and bake 
them on the shelf in the range to get a good brown 
glfze on top. Serve in dish with wine pudding 
sauce. 



Seyeral different things are understood by the 
term French toast. We shall not attempt to deter- 
mine which is the right article, as anything what* 
eyer may be termed French and there is nothing 
definite about it. The common, almost uniyersai 
hrtel French toast is the bread fried in batter at No. 
256, which is a bread friter, and the sauce makes 
it good. Howeyer, the best cooks make it other 
ways, either as aboye described or the same way 
prepared but browned on a griddle instead of in the 
oyen, or else the bread spread with butter and sugar 
only, baked brown, then dipped in batter and 
fried. 

The way we hare giyen (No. 1241 a) is probably 
the best, and as a restaurant dish is most satisfao. 
tory if seryed in a soup plate of hot milk. 



There is a great misuse of the words aux and au 
in bills of fare which have come this year Arom 
hotels of eyery section, from the most prominent as 
well as the obscure. Instead of a la, a considerable 
number haye written aux^ which is not the same 
thing, neither is it quite the same as our <<with," 
and to use such in wrong connections so far Arom 
showing high-tone and learning, is just as bad as to 
write a eggs, or them molasses or any other sample 
of bad grammar. As near as can be explained as 
they are used in bills of fare, au means to-it, and* 
aux means to<them. The first is right when that 
which follows *is one thing, as truffles au maear<mx\ 
but aux must be used when it is seyeral, as macaroni 
aux truffles. 

We notice all the menus call it *'St. JuUen*' 
soup if they have it at all; it should be known, 
howeyer, that it is named for a New York res- 
taurant keeper who was not a saint. It is the 
old French "saute soup*' which Brillat-Sayarin 
showed Julien how to make, in New Tork, and ii 
took his name. 



THE AMEBJOAJX COOK. 



iSfr 



'*We had hot spioed pigs' feet put in the entrees 
to day and they were well reoeiyed" — writes one of 
our pupils, referring to No. 1286, which appeared 
last week, and goes on — <*I followed the reading to 
the letter, only after boning rolled each fo^tina 
piece of twine to reboil.in the spiced sauce; they 
unrolled in good shape on the small platters and 
with the sauce poured over and gamUhed with hard 
boiled yolks had an appetjiing appearance — ^haye 
had fine success in the plain, easy way these entree 
dishes are written." 



That is right, and one thing well learned leads to 
others; now try caWes* brains the same way, and 
we make this remark save the space of repeating 
the receipt for it. 



[Having thus far digressed from the regular line 
let us add what the steward of a promlaent club 
writes, for these are among the many eyideuces at 
hand that* this is all considered yery Utc matter 
indeed by a large and important class of readers of 
the National Hotkl Reporter. This correspond- 
ent says: 

*<Your books are all full of good sense for the 
benefit of bo'h the o ok and the steward; but thi«, I 
think, will be more Ta^uable than either of the 
others, for it helps the cook out where he most needs 
help. The ayerage cook does not make good soups, 
and his list of entrees is yery limited. Haying one 
of your books, howeyer, it will be his own fault if 
he fail in either quality or yar.ety."] - 



Pattern of the Hotel Menus of the Future. 



MEN U. 



Stewed Oysters Consomme Royal 

Kennebec Salmon, Hollandaise Sauce 
Parisian Potatoes 

Vol-au-Vent of Sweetbreads Chicken Croquettes 



Roast Beef 

Sweet Potatoes 



Roast Turkey 
Cauliflower 



Roquefort Cheese 
Mince Pie 



Saddle of Venison, Currant Jelly Lettuce Salad 

Crackers 
Plum Pudding 

Neapolitan Ice Cream 

Cakes • Fruit 

Coflfee 

Thanksgiying, 1883, 
St. Clair Hotel, 

Cincinnati. 



Twelfth Day. 

Bouillon, 



Antelope steak iaute, French potatoes 

Clipped beef in butter. 

Minced kidneys on toast. 

Fried sugar corn. 



1242. Bouillon. 



Bouillon is the liquor in which beef has been 
boiled; it is beef broth. BouilH is boiled beef; it ia 
the soup meat that has made t he bouillon. Bouillon 
etbouilUt the soup first, and then the soup mea*, i^ 
the common inartistic dinner of the common people, 
that French epicures haye bandied jests about, while 
still respecting the simple excellence of the first part. 

If through any accident your intei ded soup or 
soup stock is spoi'ed, you will find the yery best 
remedy for the trouble by pu'tingon somo f esh cut 
beef and fresh trimmed beef bones in cold water 
with a turnip carrot and onion, and letting it boil an 
hour. Then strain it through a coarse strainer thut 
will let the beef tea particles go through; add a yery 
little thickening, and some salt and pepper, and, if 
the quantity consumed is to be taken as an indica- 
tion, you find the simple bouillon is us much thought 
of as any soup you make — that is, for once in a. 
while. It is fine for a second soup when the other 
kind is rich and'high flayored, and fine for lunch. 

There seems to be a peryersion of term? when the 
so-called bouillon seryed in cups at fashionable par- 
ties, is clarified into consomme. 

It is true these names do not signify much, but if' 
bouillon metkiks anything it means beef bro'.h with 
the beef essence left in it. 



Consomme and bouillon, when seryed at parties^ 
should haye a slight seasoning of cayenne added,, 
and a quarter slice of lemon dropped in the cup be> 
fore filling. 



1243. Antelope Steak Saute, French 

Potatoes. 

Sauteeicg is the way that is commonly known as. 
frying, in a little fat in a frying pan. 

Season the antelope steaks with salt and pepper 
and fry (saute) them as wanted, a few at a time in 
seyeral small pans with a little fresh roaet meat 
drippings. Add a lit le water to one rr two of the 
pans when the slices are taken out and rrake a deep 
colored grayy to pour around in the dishes. 

Cut potatoes with a scollop knife and cook them 
before the meal begins by stewing in fat and tightly 
browning in the oyen and sprinkling with parsley, 
as directed at No. 953. Serye them as a border with, 
the steaks. 



s«o 



xHB wiklOBIOAV COOX. 



1244. Chipped Beef in Butter. 

For lunch, brMkfut or supper, shaye dried beef 
yery thiuly, either with » knife or inverted plane. 
Put into a pan enough butter to ooTer the bottom 
when melted, and then a cupful of the shayed beef. 
Dredge with pepper. Stir about. When fairly hot 
through it is done. May be serred heaped up on 
thin toast or in indlTidnal deep dishes. 



1245. Minoed Kidneys with Ham. 

2 beef kidneys. 

i pound of broiled ham — 4 slices. 

2 hard-boiled ef^. 

12 slices of fried bread or toast. 

< 

Pepper and salt. 
Mince the ham fine in a chopping bowl and set it 
aside to be ready. Cut the kidneys small, put them 
in a frying pan with a spoonftil of drippings, or ham 
or sausage fat and shake th m over the fire in the 
gravy that foims until the pieces are partly cooked. 
Too much cooking makes them hard. Drain them 
out with a spoon and chop fine. Put back in the 
l^ravy and the minced ham with it; add pepper and 
a little salt. Make hot without flrying the moisture 
out. Dish on slices of toast and sprinkle with chop- 
ped eggs. 

Regular dinner bill of the Brunswick, Boston: 

MENU. 



OT8TSR8 ON SHELL. 
SOUP. 
PUREE OF ASPARAGUS — SUX CPOUtOUS 

CONSOMME OF CHICKEN 
FISH. 

BOILED PENOBSCOT SALMON — buttCr SaUOC 

HoUandaise Potatoes Cucumbers 

REMOVES. 

Philadelphia capon, with pork — parsley sauce 
Loin OF spring lamb— mint sauce 
Stuffed chicken — ^giblet sauce 
49IRL0IN OF BEEP — mushroom sauce 

ENTREES. 

Croquette of sweet-bread — perigord 
Broiled antblopi steak-— au champagne 
Small CHICKEN patties — a la reine 
Peach FRiTfBBs, glace — ensabayon 

VEGETABLES. 
HASHED POTATOES RICE 

NEW PEAS POTATOES 

BERMUDA ONIONS 



BOILED POTATOES 
SPINACH 
MACARONI 



MAYONNAISE. - 

LOBSTER CHICKEN SHBIMP8 

DESSERT. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING 

APPLE PI'S MINCE PIE 

ASSORTED CAKE MACAROONS CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

CONFECTIONEBT FROZEN PUDDING 

ROMAN PUNCH 

APPLES ORANGES BANANAS 

COFFEE 

Sunday, April 29, 1883. 



COMMENTS. 

The foregoing bill is of no particular oeoasion.bui 
an estray of last April, used here to show one style 
of construction. 

*'Puree of asparagus with crusts" — ^the soup is 
made by using the thin, green stalks and heads of 
joung asparagus because that can be cooked green 
instead of purple, and mashing it through a strainer 
in sufficient quantity to give a cream-like consist- 
ency to the stock. The common liking for bacon 
and cabbage is remembered in making this soup and 
a piece of bacon is boiled in it. There should also 
be some asparagus heads left whole to put in at last 
—croutoru are dice-shaped pieces of bread toast« 
ed brown in a pan in the oven if to be Oimde crusts, 
but if duehmse they are fried in clear butter — ^bni 
the great Conde, who probably being the Bismarok 
of his day and being fond of these crusts in his 
soup, had none of our superfine American steam 
manufactured crackers, (oyster,8oda, pic-nic, butter 
and Boston)if he had he would have liked them bet- 
ter than his crusts — at least that is the way with 
all of our generals and colonels. It is only about 
forty years since the first American machine-made 
crackers were sent over the water, and then the 
English thought them almost too good to eat. So 
when it is found in the old directions that all puree 
soups should have croutont served with them, it 
ought to be remembered that those poor unenlighten- 
ed people had nothing else that waiTbetter, and 
while there is no harm in serving a/ew crusts, your 
people at table should not be annoyed by finding 
no room l«ft in their plate of soup for the favorite 
oyster crackers. 

*< Perigord " — standing for sweetbreads a la Peri- 
gord, is simply an allusion to truffles in the dres- 
sing; because the best truffles come trim Perigord — 
just as with us the best asparagus comes f^m New 
Jersey. 



1246. Fried Suffar Com, or Com 

Fritters. 



1 can solid packed com. 
Butter size of an egg — 2 ounces. 
} cupful of flour — 2 ounces. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
i as much pepper. 
8 eggs. 
Mash the com to make it pasty, mix all the in* 
gredients in, make flattened cakes with flour on the 
hands and fry (saute) them in a frying pan, brown 
on both sides. 

To make com fritters roll in shape of eggs with 
plenty of flour on the outside, and fry in the potato 
fryer immersed in hot lard or drippings. 
This makes 25 or 30. 



THB AXmaXCAX COOK. 



361 



1247. Sautee— What They Are. 

•'lukyouDOiio meet Mr So-and-so and Lord 
What d*ye-oall-him; I ask jouto meet a aauU de/oie 
ifras, end a haunch of venison." 

'^Confound the man I "was my mental anathema — 
"Long life to the Solomon of tauta, "was my aad- 
ible exclamation — ** I will most eertainly pay them 
my respects. Nerer did I know before how far 
Ahinfftwtre better company than pertons, Tonr 
lordship hts (aught me that great truth." 

The commonplace of those studied sentences of 
the noTclist is that his lordship was going home t^ 
have some "fried" liver and bacon — sauteed,Kally, 
but 19TJ few of us have learned the difference of 
meaning of frying and sauteeing as yet*— and the 
-other one sud he would be on hand and did not 
care if there was not any company if the aaute was 
-good and hot and had a nicely seasoned gravy. 

A taute, then, is good enough for anybody. There 
is not a cook in any hotel but what c»n prepare one 
and does, very frequently. There is no French 
•knowledge required for it, all that is wanted is to 
know how to get rid of the superfluous grease, if 
there be in any, and to thicken and season the pan 
gravy so that it tastes good. We have menioned 
IncidentaUy many times over that the common fry- 
ing of slices of meat in a common frying pan is 
aautidng, and we have as much right to adopt that 
word and use it as to construct and adopt a new 
word for the telephone, when the language did not 
contain one ready. 

When a party of travelers alight at a wayside inn 
and must have a meal prepared in the shortest time, 
the cook cuts up it may be a chicken into the fry- 
ing pan, or perhaps a rabbit, or pork chops, or beef 
steak, or liver and bacon, cooks it over the fire, 
takes out the meat when done, stirs a spoonful of 
flour around in the pan, then pours in a little water 
and lets it boil up — that is ^ aaute of chicken, rabbit 
or whatevsr it may be, and it U fine enough to put 
in any bill of/are, provided always that it be fresh 
cooked and hot just as it would be for a traveling 
pirty. 

Napoleon's ekieken a la Marengo, the dish said to 
liave been praised by him when served on the battle- 
field, is a aaute of chicken with mushrooms and wine 
added to the sauce. Somewhere we have seen an 
anecdote of Prince Talleyand and his cook, the 
Prince angry at having been kept waiting, *'But 
the aautef your eicelleney." *'It is perfection," re- 
plied the Prince. Every cook who reads this can 
prepare a saute of any kind of meat; but remember 
to pronounce it aautay. 



Study of Notable Menus. 



sor Hotel, Saint P^ul, Minn.; Sifmmers and Hoo« 
fort Proprietors. 

MENU. 
Thursday, Nov. 29, 1888. 

SOUP. 

Marie Stuart 

nsH. 

Red Snapper 
Boiled Potatoes 

BEMOVBS. 

Saddle of Antelope,Cranberry Jam 

Roast Brant, Apple Saaoe 
Roast Turkey, Stuffed with Chestnuts 
Toung Black Bear, Mareofaale 

Prairie Chicken, Stuffed 
Haunch of Buffalo, Cumberland Sauce 
Mallard Duck Canvas Back Duck Teal Duck 



LUCULLUS PUVCH. 



KNTBSB8. 

Red Squirrel Pot Pie 

Wild Goose, a la Fermiere 
Pheasant Saute, Hunters* Style. 
Opossum, Braised, with Sweet Potatoes 
Salmis of Grouse, with Mushrooms 

Venison Steak, Sauce Dufour 



Broiled Quail on Toast 

LKRUCl SALAD 



GOLD. 

Pate of Game Liver Chauflroix of Woodcock 

Snipe, en Bellevue 

YKOETABLBS. 

Boiled and Mashed Potatoes 

String Beans Stewed Tomatoes 

Green Peas Green Com 

PASTBT. 

English Plum Pudding, Brandy Sauce 

Lemon Meringue Pie . Sliced Apple Pie 

Macaroons Eclairs au Confiture Vienna Cake 

DE-SERT. 

Nesselrode Ice Cream Orange Jellies Fancy Creama 

Biscuits a la Vanilla 



SWEET CIDEE. 



Oranges Apples Figs Nuts Raisins Malaga Grapes 
Coffee Cbeeee 



Annual Game Dinner and Thanksgiving: Wmd- 



Of the Windsor the lat Steward is C. J. MoEfor^, 
Chief Cook, Louis Du Verdier; Pastry Cook and 
Confectioner, Louis Hanson. 



$62 



THE AKBBICAN COOK. 



COMHBNTS. 

Tbe special feature of the bill is that all the meats 
are yarious kinds of game, from the soup which 
contains quenelles of partridge through the re- 
moves and entrees, the quiil on toast — written 
there to observe the French form of a ro^t with 
salad, — to the three cold ornamental dishes; and it 
has been so managed that none of the kinds are 
named twice over, nor can it be fairly said that the 
same thing appears cooked in several ways at once. 
There is nothiof; that needs explanation. Lucullus 
is a good and favorite affix to anything that is fine 
and costly, that being the name of one of the most 
famous RDman h^gh-liverg. 

The *<a la Fermiere*' to the wild goose means, in 
Farmer*s style — tbe reason why it is fermiere, in- 
stead of fermiir — farmer ess instead of farmer — 
feminine instead of mi^culine, is becmse all 
these qualifications are supposed to include the word 
mode, but to h%ve dropped it for the sake of brevity, 
and mode being fefninine, makes the style the same. 

The above menu was beautifully printed on a 
large double gilt-edge card very finely engraved 
specially for this occasion. 



Study of Notable Menus. 

Christmas dinner at the Brunswick, Boston. 
Barnes and Dunklee, Proprietors, 1888. 

MENU. 



BLUB POINTS. 



Paree of Tomatoes— croutons 

Consomme of Chicken-^eelery 
Fillet of Flounder, breaded— oolbert 
Paribian Potatoes. 
Leg of Mutton^aper sauce 
Bremen Qoose — chestnut dressing 
Stuffed Chicken — giblet sauce 
Sirloin of Beef — mushroom sauce 
Small Chicken Patties — salpicon 
Potted Quails, truffled — sauce madere 



Terrioe de Foie-Oras— de Strasbourg 
Game Pie — chasseur Boned Turkey— jelly 

Gtiavas-back Duck 

Prairie Chicken, larded — bread sauce 
Dressed Letuce Dressed Celery 

Mashed Potatoes Boiled Potatoes 

Rice Tomatoes Peas Turnips Corn 

Onions Squash 

Lobster Salad Chicken Mayonnaise Shrimp Salad 

English Plum Pudding 

Mince Pie Pumpkin Pie Apple Pie 

Fruit Cake Chocolate Cake Swiss Meringues 

Champagne Jel'y Canfectionery 

Neapolitan Ices Roman Punch 

Roquefort Neufchatel 

Apples Oranges Bananas Qrapes 

Coffee 



The S eward of the Brunswick is Cnarles A. 
Gieason; Chief Cook, Arnold Dedinger; Pastry- 
Cook and Confectioner, Henry Mayer. 

1248. Pottingr— What it Means. 

Potted meats are both hot and o Ad dishes. It 
seems probable that the very ancient practice of 
packing down cooked meats in the form of a paste 
highly seasoned in small pots or jars made air 
tight at the top by a coveiing of melted butter, was 
the firsC thing intended to be expressed by potting, 
but as these meats are cooked in a covered jar- in 
the oven, liked Boston baked beans, for example, 
and as described at* No. 1189 f>r potted-pigeons, 
there could be nothing more natural than to serve- 
them hot, also, and call them potted meats even be- 
fore ih'^y were potted. 

However that may be, it is a term that is cuffiei- 
ently easy to be understood where intelligible culi- 
nary terms are so few. and the way of cooking is of 
the highest degree of excellence. Almost ev?ry 
cooking range has one very hot oven, and another- 
tbat never heats up above the medium. The cool 
side is the one to set the jar in, with its covering ot 
paste, to bake for three or four hours. 



Christmas dinner at the Burnet House, Cincin-^ 
nati. Dunklee, Barnes and Zimmerman, Pro- 
prietors, 1888. 

MENU. 



Oysters on Half Shell 

SOUP. 

Green Turtle Consomme- 

FISH. 

Boiled Sheephead, Mashed Potatoes 

BEMOYIS. 

Saddle of Mutton, with Jelly Roast Beef 

Roast Goose, Stuffed with Apples 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce- 

OAMI. 

Red Head DuQk, Stuffed with Oysters 
Broiled Quail on Toast 

Saddle of Venison with Jelly 

■MTRBEB. 

Croquettes of Sweetbreads, with French Peas 
Hashed Turkey, with Poached Eggs 

Queen Fritters, with Jelly 

VEGETABLES. 

Mashed Potatoes Boiled Potatoes Stewed Tomatoes. 
Rice Lima Beans Mashed Turnips 
Sweet Potatoes Spinach Sugar Corn 
Stewed Oyster Piant Onions 

GOLD DISHES. 

Cold Ham Celery Chicken Salad Cold Tongue 

PASTBT AND DESSERT. 

Rice Pudding Plum Pudding Mince Pie Cream Pia^ 

Roman Punch Charlotte Russe Vanilla Ice Cream 

Assorted Cake Oranges 

Grapes Bananas 

Coffee 



THE AMERICAN COOK* 



36» 



1249. Salmis— What they Are. 



lliis is one of the few necessary terms to nse, 
tecauee there is no other name. There is a thin 
distinction bet wee a talmi and salmis, but it is not 
obseryed and need not be. A salmi is a hash; a 
salmis is a dish of game reoooked. It la as much as 
can be expected if bill of fare writeis can adopt 
salmi as meaning one dish and salmis for more than 
one. It 14 made by first roasting the game (and we 
do not know why it should not apply to poultry as 
well), then cutting it up into a sauce prepared for it 
by boiling down the bones and fragments in broth 
well seasoned, then thickening and straining it. 
The Yarious styles or ''a la modes" attached half 
the time hare reference to the kind of seasoning in 
the sauce, as a salmis sauce strong with onions has 
one name, but if with wine it has another — which 
would be all Tory pretty if it could be learnt — the 
ether terms refer to the style of building up and 
trinming in the dish. But salmi or salmis can be 
used in the bill of fare without troubling about the 
after teims. A salmi of any small game is a more 
elaborate dish than a saute of the same thing, be- 
eanse it has a sauce carefully prepared instead of a 
quick-made gravy stirred up in the pan. 



1260. Fricassees— What they Are. 



MENU. 



This, the last of the terms which occur to us as 
having become partially known and are used be- 
cause they are needed, is the least likely of all to be 
correctly used, for at least ten or twelve differently 
cooked dishes are called fricassees by the French 
masters, while domestic cookery calls any common 
white stew a white fricassee, and a brown stew a 
brown fricassee, but domestic cookery is wrongs 
and stew is the better name. French fricassees 
are all alike in one things and that is in being 
served in the creamy, yellow sauce, thickened with 
eggs instead of flour, and containing either wine or 
lemon juice, called saitce a la poulette. Anything 
that is cooked, almost, from chicken breaded and 
fried to cucumbers sliced and stewed, is a fricassee 
if it has that kind of sauce to it, much the same 
as any kind of fowl or game is a supreme 
when it is in the sauce of that name. 

8 imetimes, instead of such a stew being called a 
fricassee it is mentioned as something — scollops of 
veal for example — *fen fricassee de poulette.*' or it 
may be "a /a poulette.** 

The difference between this and a supreme, is 
that the fricassee sauce has eggs in it, thickening it 
like a custard, and supreme sauce has not, and the 
same egg thickening makes the distinction between 
a fricassee and any common sort of stew. 



Blue points on shell 
Celery 



Green Turtle, a I'Anglaise Scotch broik 

Olives Radishes 

Cannellons Francaise 



Baked Black Grouper, port wine sauce 
Potato beignets 



Sweetbreads glace, aux petits pois 
Patties of parsnips 



Roast sirloin of beef 

Roast Turkey, stuffed with oysters 

Baked sweet potatoes Marrow asparagus 

Sugar corn 



JUfAICA BUM PUNCH 



Roast quail, larded, wi'h gu%va jelly 
Lettuce, a la mayonaise 



Boned capon 



Shrimp salad 



Boiled plum pudding, hard sauce 
Pumpkin pie Charlotte russe Mince pi« 

Assorted cake Claret wine jelly Pineapple ice cream 



Fruit Cider Biscuit Coffee 

Thb Wiin)SOB, Denver, Colo., Christmas, 1888. 



It would not do for all hotels to be alike, nor 
should a Procrustean rule be applied when advice is 
asked as to which form of bill of fare should b» 
adopted. The writer's own preference among all 
the specimens in these leaves is the Burnet House 
form, on the preceding page; but that is for the 
regular every day dinner, and its adoption does not 
prevent the use of a bill of the pattern of the twe 
succeeding for a party dinner or supper. They are 
dinners to be served in courses. But the same 
dishes and the same number for each division, with 
the same simple expression of them in plain Ian- 
gu^ige, might be slightly changed in arrangement, 
and there wouM be the same table d'hote pattern ta 
which we adverted above as near perfection as the 
exigencies of hotel business will ever allow us 
to go. 

Cannellons,'-' mentioned as a hot side dish in the 
above bill, will be found explained at No. 241 — 
these have a morsel of minced meat rolled up in 
them — potato beignets are potato fritters, No. 280, 
and they are fine and not common — patties of par- 
snips may be another form of parsnip fritters or 
croquette^. 

Rissole — in the menu following, is the same thing 
as croquette, it being applied to the rolled form in- 



364 



TH£ AMBBIGAN COOK. 



stead of the pear or other rounded shape; rissole 
snd croquette both mean something crisp outside. 
The mince of fowl of this bill and the hashed turkey 
of the Burnet House bill are the same thing. It is 
« favorite dish at the fine restaurants and we can- 
not see but it is just as well presented in such words 
ss if it had been coTcred with some such term as 
ohaufroiz or salmis, or anything else that would not 
have been understood and would have caused it to 

be left uncalled for. 

MENU. 



Blue points 
Celery 



Green turtle 
Bissole of chicken 

Boiled trout 
Pftrisienne potatoes Sliced cucumbers 



Boiled turkey, oyster sauce 
Sugar cured ham 

Spinach Asparagus 

Sirloin of beef 

Chicken, sage dressing 

Mashed potatoes Sweet potatoes 

French Peas Sugar corn 

Supreme of sweetbreads, with truffles 
Mince of fowl, wi'h poached eggs 



ROMAH PUNCH 



Roast quail Mallard duck 

Lettuce, a 1% mayonaise 



Chicken salad 



Boned turkey 



pie Plum pudding,brandy sauce Apple pie 
Claret wine jelly Lemon jelly 

Charlotte russe 



Vanilla ice cream 
Fancy cake 



Fruit Roquefort Cheese 

Ths Antlebs, Colorado Springs, Colo. 



Coffee 



Study of Notable Menus. 

Perhaps we cannot do better for sn ending of the 
line of specimen dinner menus than to study the 
following for the benefit of such of our readers as 
still imagine some unapproachable heights of excel- 
lence existing in whatever is prinUsd in French. 

It was an ideal affair that was ncTer realised, for 
as a meal the dinner was a bad failure; a fact that 
has nothing to do with the dinner as planned in the 
mind of one or two or more of the best informed and 
most experienced cooks in America. It is the 
menu of the dinner given to Mr. Henry Villard's 
party of German tourists, who came to participate 
in the Northern Pacific Railroad opening. It took 
place at a fine summer resort house, the Hotel 
Lafityeite, Lake Minne'onka, September, 1888. Tl« 



preparations for it were, howcTer, made in New 
York. Without knowing for a certainty why the 
dinner was a failure we think — and every hotel man 
who has had to do with these too elaborate banquets 
will he ready to agree with us — that it was because 
the menu was in a language which the guests either 
did not understand at all, or did not understand the 
culinary terms; that the dinner was too tediously 
attempted to be served in courses,an intention which 
the party just from the wild west did not understand 
either, and began to leave the table before the second 
act of the formalities had commenced, thereby up- 
setting all plans and losing the best of everything 
which was reserved for the last. However that may 
have been, this is a genuine French menu in arrange- 
men, language, spelling and choice of dishes. It 
was neatly printed in b'ue on heavy bristol board, 
edged with blue silk fringe, and on the last page was 
the monogram in old script "N. P. R. R.*' 
Blue Points sur ooquille 

POTAGES. 

Birque de crevettes Consomme d^Orsay 

HOBS d'cEUVBXS. 

Varies Varies 

Petites bouchees au salpicon 

POISSONS. 

Bass rayee a la Hallandaise Filet de sole a la Joinvills 
Concombres Pommes croquettes 

BKLKVXS. 

Selle de chevreuil a la Cumberland 
Jambon d'ourson au chasseur 
' Tomates farcies 

ENTPEXS. 

Cotelettes de pigeonneaux, chevaliere 

Petits pois Francais 

Poitrine de cailles a I'Andalouse 

Quenelles de perdreaux a la St. Hubert 

Flageolets a TAnglaise 

Ballottines d' ortolans a la Perigueux 

Fonds d'artichauts, Lyonnaise 

SOBBIT. 

Lucullus 

ROTI. 

Poule de prairie Saroelles 

Salad e esc^role 

PIECES MONTBBS. 

Panien gamis aux fruits Pyramids en nonga^ 

Chalet Suisse Chapelle Turque 

Vues du Lac Minnetonka 

Come d'abondance 

Chemin de fer du Northern Pacific entrent dans Is 

tunnel Mullen 

sue RES. 

Pudding a la Tyrolienne, sauce sabayon 

Glace Napolitaine Bavarois au chocolat 

Petits fours assort is 

Fruits Fromage Cafe 

. VINS. 

Chateau Tquem Amontillado 

Johannisberger Cabinet 

Chateau Cosd'Estournel, '74 

Roederer Pommery Chateau Lafite, '6& 

Cos de Vougeot 
Liqueurs 



365 



The above was the productio'', 
Eugene Mehl, for a long time chief 
Windsor and BroTOort Hotels, New Y 
reported early ia the season that a 
who had lately gained some reputation 
of the President of the United States 
for this hotel, and he may haye been 
it likewise. 



probably, of 
cook of the 
ork. It was 
French cook 
in the seryice 
was engaged 
ounoerned io 



TRAHSLATIOH. 

The names of the styles and the sauces are firom 
an expensive French work but Utile known in this 
country, a book that is principally devoted to what 
has been called the "fiissand feathers of ornamental 
cookery.** 

Otstkbs > On shell. 

Soup — Bisque of prawns.and an amber olesr soup. 

Side dishes — Various — such as oliyes, lettuce, 
•caviar; and a hot patty with a little highly seasoned 
mince incl sed. 

Fishes— Striped bass with Hollandaise sauee,and 
fillet of sole with a ragout of Irufiles and crayfish — 
cucumbers and potato croquettes. 

Releves — Saddle of yenison with Cumberland 
sauce — ^ham of young bear, hunters' style, or with 
game sauce— stuffed tomatoes {farcies is filled with 
fareef which is French for and the original of our 
forcemeat — there is no beef or other ordinary kind 
of meat in this menu. 

Entrees— Pigeon neauz is the French for <'f quabs" 
— cutlets as described at No. 1217 — chevaliere style 
IS breaded a'ld Aried — French peas with tbem — 
breast of quails, sauce Andalouse (No. 938) — 
<iuenelles of partridges, a pasfe made by pounding 
the meat fine, seasoning, making in shapes and 
poaching them io seasoned broth — St. Hubert is the 
patron saint of hunters — flageolets, French beans 
dressed with butter, salt and ^ep^eT—J>alloUines are 
rendered fillets in English, they are the breasts 
with fring joints atf ached, but we suppose that in 
this case the ballottines were the little butter ball 
birds boned and not divided, thus bringing the 
gradation of dishes down to the finest point because 
ortolans are the most rare and expensive of Euro 
pean birds, like our reed birds, but larger and fat* 
t' r. Perigueux (the style of the people of Perigord) 
indicates truffles — bottoms of artichokes in a brown 
«auce. 

Punch — Lucullus — an expensiye punch like im- 
perial, composed of several kinds of liqueurs and 
Aruits and frozen a la Romaine. 

RoTi — Prairie hen and tjsal duck — endive salad. 

Orhamental pieces on stands — baskets of firuits 
— almond candy pyramids — a Swiss chalet — Turk- 
ish chapel — views of Lake Minnetonka, done, prob. 
ably, in sugar work — com d'abondance is the horn 
of plenty, the figure that always appears whenever 
«• old-style banquet is set out — the grand pieoe 
^evidently was a representation of the railroad and 



train of cars entering a tunnel, 

Swbets — ^Tyrolean or Swiss pudding with wine 
custard sauce. Neapolitan ice cream (No. 126] — 
chocolate Bavarian cream (No. 187) — small fancy 
cakes and tarts of various sorts — fruits — cheese — 
coffee. 

Wines — Choice brands. 

The chief eioellence of the menu consists in the 
selection of parts only of small birds — of the young 
pigeons only the principal j oint of the wing with the 
entire breast, the quail the same but differently 
shaped and cooked, the partridges similarly selected 
meat, and the dish of ortolans was of a higher order 
still — all this because it mahes common food expen- 
sive and capable of being shaped, flavored and orna- 
mented until it becomes virtually i new product. 
But the people who dine cannot know of these things 
intuitively and without the necessary information 
they would better enjoy a plainer dinner. 



Thirteenth Day. 

Clam chowder—'Boaton ttyle* 



Roll of veal stuffed and braised. 

Stewed lamb with tomatoes. 

Salmon patties. 

Charlotte of peaches. 



1251. Olam Ohowdei^BoBton Style. 



2 quarts of clams and their liquor. 

6 quarts of soup stock. 

2 quart panful of raw potatoeo out small. 

2 cupfuls of sliced onions. « 

2 or three slices of streaky salt pork. 

2 teaspoonfuls of powdered thyme and savory. 

1 tablespoonful each of white pepper and salt. 

A little minced parsley for ornament. 
The different articles should be made ready separ- 
ately and placed convenient for use. 

The belly pieces of pork which are cut off the 
roasts and dropped in the pickle keg from day to 
day, are the best for this purpose. Got up a pound 
into small bits and fry them light brown in the pot 
the soup is to be made in; then pour off the fat. 
Put in the potatoes, onions, stock, clam liquor and 
seasonings, let boil until the potatoes are done, then 
add the clams out small, and boil up once more. 



The clam soup made with milk, at No. 823, and 
the Coney Island chowder. No. 1208, with the other 
kind above, make the three varieties most desired 
both for hotel and restaurant custom. They are all 
unequivooally good. 



1252. Boll of Veea StuiTed and Braised. 

There is always a surplus on hand of the out of 
veal marked 9 and on the diagram at No 996, and 



360 



THE AMBBIOAN OOOK. 



The oUm soup made with milk, at No. 823, and 
the Coney Island ohowder, No. 1208, with the other 
kind sboTe, make the three Tarietiee most desired 
both for hotel and restaurant oustom. They are all 
unequiYocally good. 



1262. Boll Of Veeastu£fed and Braised. 



There is alwayj a surplus on hand of the out of 
Teal marked 9 andO on the diagram at No. 996, and 
extending back to the If g. It is useless for roast or 
cutlets, but most excellent meat for entrees. Take 
the whole piece, full length, and make it all alike 
by cutting the booes oot of the brisket and the firm- 
est part of the gristle along the ridge, if large yeal. 

Make the Teal dressing, No. 956. It is not best 
to use much, but rather a thin coating highly sea- 
soned. Lay the Teal suet and trimmings of the 
brisket in a saucepan, add an onion and small soup 
bunch, a sage leaf, and a little salt. Roll up the 
breast of Teal, tie with twine, put it on top of the 
scraps and set it to cook with only a cupful of stock 
at first, and the lid on. When it has become set 
with cooking add a dipperfiil of stock and keep it 
simmering with the steam shut in for 2 hours, man- 
aging so that it will be boiled down dry at last. 
Then take up the roll of Teal and brown it in one of 
the roast meat pans Tery quickly , not to diy the 
outside into strings. Pour the grease out of the 
saucepan, make graTy of the glaze that adheres to 
the b )ttom. See that when carTed the roll is neat- 
ly sliced across and serTcd with its own seasoned 
graTy. 



1263. Stewed Lamb with Tomatoes. 

4 pounds of breast of lamb. 
1 pint cupful mixed Tegetables. 

1 pint of loma'oes. 

2 tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley. 
Salt and pepper. 

Take two of the brisket and flank pieces marked 
7 in the cut at No. 997. Saw across the bones mak- 
ing them less than two-inch lengths, diTide them, 
two pieces of the ribs to each cut. Wash, stew in 
water enough just to ooTcr, long enough to make 
the meat tender. 

Cut carrots, turnips and onions in squares, and 
boil them in water separately; pour off the water 
when they are half done and put them in the stew, 
and also the tomatoes. Boil half an hour longer, 
thicken slightly if necessary, season, and at last 
throw in the parsley. 

The aboTe makes a Tery pretty dish. In dishing 
np take up two pieces of the meat for each dieh and 
place them square in the middle of an indiTidnal 
flat platter, and dish the sauce and Tegetables in 
•rder at each end. 



1264. Salmon Patties. 

Take cooked fresh salmon— canned salmon aa 
good as any if in large pieces, or boiled salmon from 
a prcTiouB day — and some puff paste from the pie- 
making. 

Roll out and cut about 10 fiats like large biscuits 
but thin. Press a shapely piece of salmon down in 
each one, in the middle, and bake the patties of a 
nice color. 

If good paste that will rise with high edges around 
the fish these are sufficiently ornamented without 
any additions when dished up. A Friday dish. 
Not many wanted. 



1266. Oharlotte of Peaches. 

See Nos, 852 and 855. A sweet entree comes in 
good place for a Friday dinner, if CTer. 



Fourteenth Day. 

Amber clear soup or coruomme. 



Stuffed shoulder of mutton, 

fViciUiee of veal and mushrooms. 

Parsnip fritters 

Croquettes of sweetbreads* 



1266. Amber Clear Soup or Consomme.. 

2} gallons of clear stock. 

1 shank bone of Teal. 

1 fowl, or the drumsticks and triipmings. 

1 onion and bunch of soup Tegetables. 

2 pounds coarse beef. 
4 whites of eggs. 

Roast the Teal and fowl carefully in the OTcn the- 
same as roasting dinner meat, but in a pan by 
themseWes, and haTO a little butter in the pan as 
well as the Teal fat. The object is to get a nice 
deep brown color, as well as flaTor, to impart to the 
soup, and Teal and butter are the best materials for 
the purpose. TVhen brown put the meat into the 
soup pot with the stock and let' boil. Pour off the 
grease from the baking pan, dissolTe the brown 
glaze with water and put that in the soup, also the 
onion and soup bunch. Boil an hour. Next comes 
the clarifying process. 

Cbop a lump of lean beef like sausage meat and 
add the whites of eggs to it,and a pint of cold water. 
Stir to mil. 

Strain'off the soup that you haTe ready and mix 
(he chopped beef and egg with it, then boil itckgain. 
It is like clearing jelly. The egg comes up on top, 
and when it is all cooked strain the clear soup first 
through a graTy strainer to remoTe the beef, theiw 
tbroagh a jelly bag or a napkin spread in a col- 
ander. Bun it through twice. 



387 



Theforegoiog is the full detailed process of mak- 
ing cnsammeas fine as can be made, and once it is 
thoroughlj nndersiood all the different Tarietieii 
follow as a matter of eourse. There are some ad- 
vantages can be taken and sabstitutions made both 
to make the work easier and to salt the poblic fancy. 
Tou find a good man/ people objecting to the 80ttp» 
which they declare is only like seasoned hot water, 
and you have to add four ounces of starch to gire 
an appearance of strength. If boiled slowly after 
the starch is added it becomes just as clear as it was 
before. Then where there is poultry roasted every 
day the cook will reserve a dish of the drumsticks 
•nd backhooes and necks at the carving stand to 
put in his brown stock, but if there is no such 
■coloring a little burnt sugar must be used. 

The chopped beef if not absolutely necessary nor 
even the white of eggs — it all depends on whether 
ihe consomme is wanted to be of the best or only 
•ordinary. Season with salt and cayenne before 
sending in. 

In connection with the above read the ariide 
referring to the many variations of clear soups at 
No. 1175 and the whole subject is covered. 



1267. Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton. 

Take the bones out of two shoulders of mutton at 
ihe time the meats are out up for breakfast, that 
they may be ready early. It is done by beginning 
at the shank end and cutting close to the blade 
bone Lay some pieces from the thick parts ove 
ihe thin places. 

Make the bread dressing either at No. 942 or No. 
1060 — one has sweet herbs, the other sage.and both 
«re good — and spread it over the meat. Roll up 
ihe long wny of the shoulder; thai is, with the 
ehank end inside, because it slices much better so 
than if rolled the other way. Tie with twine. Put 
the rolled shoulders' in to bake in a deep pan the 
same m if roasting turkey; cover with an oiled 
aheet of paper and keep cooking with always a little 
water in the pan, not less than two hours. Take off 
the twine and slice neatly and serve with a little 
gravy made in the pan poured around. See No. 
1062 for this sort of bread sauce. There is no 
irouble whatever in disposing of all the shoulders 
of mutton in this way. They are nearly as good as 
fowls if cooked moist and teader with the stuffing 
seasoned as directed. 



1268. Frioaasee of Veal and Mush- 

rooxne. 

A ftricassee, having a smooth yellow sauce, can- 
not be made right by proceeding as for a common 
■tew, because the gravj particles and scum from the 



meat would fill it full of spooks and spoil iho ap« 
pearance. 

Take the brisket of veal marked 9 at No. 990. 

1 slice of salt pork. 

One small onion, or three green oiiiB. 

4 yolks of eggs. 

1 smaU blade of maoe. 

1 pod of red pepper. 

1 lemon. 

1 can of mushrooms. 

Butter and flour and salt. 
Wash the veal nd drop it in the stock boiler to 
remain about half an |iour, then take it up and 
when cool divide'it across the ribs into pieces suit- 
able for two to a dish. Draw some clear stock 
through a strainer and put the pieces of veal on in 
iust enough to cover, to simmer for an hour. Put 
in also the slice of p3rk, whole onion and mace, and 
red pepper finely minced and a little sa^t. When 
the meat is done add a cup of flour thickening (to 
save eggs and be more satisfactory) and when that 
has boiled up beit the yolks with a little milk, pour 
some of the stew to them, then pour all back into 
the saucepan, stir around once and take oft before it 
boils. Finish with a little lemon Juice. 

Make the mushrooms into a brown saute in a fry- 
ing pan. Dish up a piece of veal at each end of the 
dish and the sauce poured over them, and a table- 
spoonful of brown mushrooms in the middle. Leaf 
shapes of pastry may be used to lay in the dish for 
ornament. 



1260. Parenip Fritters. 

1 pint of dry mashed parsnips— 2 cupftilB. 
Butter tiie of an egg. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 
2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful of pepper. 
Same of salt. 
Stir all together. Have a saucepan of lard hoi 
enough to hies when a drop of water touches it.' 
Dip a spoon in and then shape a fritter with it,drop 
in and fry light brown. 

Serve either with gravy or as an accompaniment 
with some kind of meat. 



1260. Oroquettes of Sweetbreads 

Toulousaine. 



2 pounds ot sweetbreads. 
} can of mushrooms. 
1 cupful of butter. 
Same of flour. 
I cupful of cream. 
S tme of broth or water* 
Grating of nutmeg. 
Juice of half a lemon. 
Eggs and cracker-meal for breading. 
Boil the sweatbreads first in salted water for 



Kd 



■ ■* 



3<S8 



time, according to kind — beef sweetbreads may need 
an hour. Cool them, out in rerj small dice and the 
mashrooms with them. 

Season wi'h pepper, salt, nutmeg and lemon juice. 
Then make some thick cream sauce of the butter, 
4our and cream end broth and mix it with the 
minced sweetbreads. Spreid the mixture in a pan 
and make it Tery cold. After that cut out pieces, 
roll them in flour, then dip in beaten egg and 
cracker-meal and fry in the wiie basket in hot lard. 
. Serre with a sauce in the dish or garnish of green 
peas. 

A cheaper sort can be made by stirring up the 
minced sweetbreads with a cupful pf panada and a 
couple of eggs, instead of making a oream sauce to 
set and bind the mixture. 



jrying p'n, and when it is melted lay in the pieces- 
and cook them brown without burning. To insure 
the drumsticks and sectiois of the breast being well 
done keep the pan coTered with a lid part of the 
time, but the goodness of anything cooked this way 
depends up^n its being cooked quickly and wi'hout 
drying the meat. Then take up the pieces, stir a 
spoonftilof flour around in the pan, add a pint of 
water, pepper and salt, boil up, and strain the- 
grayy thus made oyer the pieces of turkey. 

1268. Veal and Oyster Pie. 



Fifteenth Day. 

Orgam of celery toup. 



SatUe of young turkey. 
Veal and oyster pie. 
Calves* braint in brown butter. 
French pancakes vnth jelly. 



1261. Oream of Celery Soup* 

6 quarts of soup stock. 
2 quarts of milk. 

1 cupful of minced onion. 

Lean boiled ham — a' small pieoe or knuckle 
bone. 

2 or 8 heads of celerr. 

1 cupful of flour and same of butter. 

Gut the outside stalks of celery into yery small 
dice and boil them flye minutes in water, then drain 
the water away. 

Boil the stock with onions and ham in it; stir the 
butter and flour together in a saucepan and add 
them to the stock. When it has boiled up and 
thickened strain it into another saucepan, add the 
celery and let cook at the side until the celery is 
done — oyer half an hour. Haye the milk hot ready 
and add it at last, along with salt and pepper and 
a tablespoonfnl of minced green celery leaf or pars- 
ley, Serye so that the squares of celery will be 
eyenly distributed in the plates. 

When the soup is rich it is as well to omit the 
butter and mix the flour with milk, for thickening. 



1262. Saute of Young Turkey. 

Very small %nd tender turkeys are more seryice- 
fable c oked this way than roasted, and it is a pleas- 
ant yarittion from the regular routine. Gut them 
up in joints and dust them with flour, salt and pep. 
per. Put some f esh ro- st meat fat in the largest 



4 pounds of small pieces of yeal. 
1 quart of oysters. 
1 quart of milk. 
1 small onion. 

1 pint of Parisienne potatoes. 

2 tablespoonfuls of minced parsley. 
4 pounds of pie paste. 

Pepper, salt and thickening. 

All the pieces of raw yeal that will not make either- 
roasts or cutlets are suitable for this— the neck, 
flank or brisket. Gut aU to one size and steep in- 
cold water some time before wanted. 

Two hours before dinner set the yeal on to boil 
with water enough nearly to coyer, draw the oyster 
liquor by pouring hot water oyer through a colan- 
der, add that to the yeal and carefully skim when- 
it comes to a boil. Let cook an hour, add the milk, 
thicken and season it. Turn the stew into a baking 
pan, drop in the potato ba'ls, the oysters spread 
oyer the top, and sprinkle with parsley. Goyer- 
with a pie crust and bake half an hour. 



1264. Calves' Brains in Brown Butter:. 

Take six sets of brains, or about tweWe lobes, 
which, being split, may be expected to make 20* 
orders; drop them into a saucepan of water in 
which there is salt and a little yinegar, and let 
slowly boil about 20 minutes. Pour all into a col- 
ander, letting the liquor run away. When the 
brains are cold remoye all the dark streaks and skin. 
It is best to haye them in a pan of cold water for 
this purpose. Slice each lobe in two, lay them out 
on a board, dredge with salt and pepper, roll both, 
sides in flour and keep them ready until dishing up- 
time. Then set a baking pan on top of the ranga 
with two-thirds fat fl*om the roast meat pans anci 
one-third butter, lay the brains in and brown them- 
on both sides. Haye some oliyes ready in a saucer 
and quarters of lemons in another. Serye the 
brains hot out of the pan with the froth of butter 
upon them, with oliyes and lemon in the same dish* 



1266. Frenoh Panoakes with Jelly. 



See directions at Ko. 269. 



THE AKEBICAK COOS. 



3«(r 



Pattern menu for a sociable affair where the losing 
party in a oontest pajs for the supper. 

COMPLIMENTS OF THE LOSING BIDE, 

WrrH A BBLIBF IN ▲ lIERBAmB. 



SCHNITGEEl, - Referee. 
54 60 



'•To the Victors belong the Spoils. 



MENU. 



It 



Raw 



0T8TEB8. 

Fried 



Stewed 



Boiled Fresh California Salmon > Saratoga 

Mountain Brook Trout j Potatoes 



Roast Turkey, Cranberry Sanoe 

Quail on Toast. 

Tenderloin Steak, with Mushrooms 

Veal Cutlets, Breaded, with French Peas 

Broiled Young Sage Chicken, with Jelly 



Mashed Potatoes 

Fresh Ca^fornia Cauliflower 

Hubbard Squash 



Shrimp Salad 



Assorted Cake 



Celery 
Pineapple lee 



Fmit Cheese Nuts Raisins Coffee 
Tbobmbubgh Hoi78e, M. M. Towne, Prop*r« 
Laramie City, Wye, Dec. 18, 1888. 



Sixteenth Day. 

Tomato ffumbo soup. 



Breaded brUket oflamb, 

SUwed pig* a head, Runian9aue$» 

Spaghetti in cream, 

BpanUh pufffrittere. 



1266. Tomato Ghunbo Soap. 

8 quarts of soup stock. 

1 quart or ean of tomatoes. 

2 eupfuls of minced Tegetables* 
12 clones. 

2 quart pan of sliced okra, 

1 or 2 pods of red pepper minoed. 

8 spoonfuls fl 'ur and water thickening. 



Set the stock on the fire an hour bef re dinner. 
Chop the tomatoes with the edge of a spoon into 
small pieces; let half the minced Tegetables be 
onions; put every thing in and let boil gently. Add; 
thickening and salt at last. 



1267. Breaded Brisket of Lamlx 



Saw the briskets of lamb or mutton across so that 
the bones will be about two inches long. Drop the 
pieces in the stock boiler early and let them cook 
until Tory tender. Take out and press flat between 
two pans. When cold* cut in con?eQient piece', 
without removing the bones. Pepper and salt 
plentifully and then double bread them and fry in 
hot fat. 

This is a good dish if properly managed, but does 
not look well unless breaded twice. The first coat- 
ing may be done without using eggs, as at No.l28A. 
May be served with any Tegetable borderer tomato 
or cream sanoe. 



1268. Stewed Pi^B Head»Bu88lan Sauoet 



There is no satisfkction in trying to use Tery Ikt 
meat this way. Take the head of a small porker, 
saw it in two, steep in eold water an hour or two^ 
wash it. cut out the ear, trim off all discolored poiv« 
tions oareftilly, put it in the salt meat boiler to oook 
about two hours. Then take it up and remoTO the 
bones. 

Put into a faueepan 

1 pint of strained soup stock. 

1 onion eat across into small bits. 

1 green piokle same way. 

1 pod of red pepper. Butter sise of an egg;- 

2 tablespoonftils of dry mustard. 

But not all at once, for the onion should stew awhile^ 
then the butter and dry mustard be mixed together 
in a pan and stirred up with the onion sauce. Add 
salt. It makes a light yellow sanoe, rather thiok» 
with onions, pickles and red pepper in it. Put ia 
the pig's head and slice it out as wanted. 



1260. Spaghetti In OreauL 



Spaghetti and macaroni can both be cooked the 
same ways;they are alike except in f hape. Break up 
into finger lengths,boil in salted water about 20 min- 
utes,drain away the wat^r and put the spaghetti 
into a saucepan of rich cream sauce. It comea 
handy to prepare it so at times when there \h no 
oheese within reach. At other times add chopped 
oheese and a sprinkling of parsley to it. 



10 



THB AKEBICAN COOK. 



1269 a. Spanish Puff Fritters. 

For all Tarieties of pufi fritters see No. 275 Am. 
PiBTET Cook 



PATTERN MIMU FOB PBIYATK PAKTT. 

MENU. 
Haitres en coquilles 

Chateau Tqaem 

Consomme en tasse 

Old Amontillado 
Cassolettes au salpioon 
Saumon au gratin,* sauee Qenoise 

La Rose 
Filet de boeuf, roti an Madere 

PetiUlPoit Epinardi 

Mamm*s £i Pry 

Supreme de perdreaux aoz truffes 

AtptrgeB 

Borbet au kirsoh 

Cailles roties 

Salade Chambertin 

Ponding Nesselrode Meringues panaohee 

Qelee au Maraiquin Gateau assortie 

Fruits Roquefort 

Dessert 

Cafe noir 

Matteson House, Chicago, Munger Bros., Proprie- 
tors; E. A. Smith, Steward. 
Jan. 4, 1884. 



Seventeenth Day. 

Potato cream toup. 



Baked spareribty Robert sauee* 

Corned lambe* tongues with brocolL 

Patties of calves* brains. 



1270. Potato Oream Soup. 

The French call potato soup Potage Parmentier 
Ofler the man who first brought potatoes into France. 
Seme of the Saratoga bills of fare have it '*Jaokson 
foup," but why we know not. 

6 quarts of soup stock. 

2 quarts of milk. 

8 large potatoes. 

8 spoonfuls flour thickening. 

1 oupfdl minoed onion. 

1 knuckle bone of boiled ham. 
Salt and white or red pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls minoed parsley. 

Strain (he stock into the soup pot and boil it, and 



set the milk to gradually come to a boil at the ride 
of the range, with the ham bone and onions in it^ 
and minoed red pepper. 

Take adipperftil of good mealy potatoes out of the 
stetmer and mash them, and mix the milk with 
them. Then s'rain the puree into the soup and 
when it boils up add suiBoient thickening to make 
it like cream and to prcTentthe potato from settliag 
to the bottom. Sprinkle parsley on top in the 
tureen. 



1271. Baked Spareribs, Robert Saooe. 

Diyide spareribs into cuts of oouTenient rise for 
one to each dish. Sawing is much heater than 
hacking, and leaves no splinters. Place in a bak- 
ing pan, sprinkle with salt, pepper and powdered 
sage and bake in a very hot oven to imitate broiling 
in getting a quick brown without drying out. Serre 
with the sauce No. 908, in the dish. 



1272. Oomed Lambs' Tonffues witk 

BrocolL 

Take the tongues out of the pickle keg on the 
preceding day and boil with the salt meats. They 
take two or three hours to cook tender. When cold 
pare off all the white outside skin and split length- 
wise in two. 

Having the halves ready in a dish when the roast 
meat is done, after taking it out fry the tongues in 
the fiit and glaxe in the baking pan for about five 
minutes, then take them out slightly browned and 
glased, and keep hot. 

Brocoli is a kind of cabbage, entirely green, has 
the cauliflower flavor. Cook it the same as cabbage, 
an hour or more. Drain, add salt, pepper and a 
little roast meat fat and chop fine in the pan. Serve 
a spoonful in the dish and the lamb's tongue pushed 
down in the centre. 



1273. Patties of Calves' Brains. 

Set on a large firying pan with butter in it rise of 
iku egg, put in a pint of brains, dredge in salt and 
pepper and a teaspoonful of powdered s^ge. Scram- 
ble the brains in the fan same way as eggs. They 
«rill be done in about 10 minutes. 

Prapare 12 vol-au>vent patty oases of puff paste* 
fill with scrambled brains, put on the lids, orna- 
ment with chopped yolks and parsley or a slice of 
lemon. 



Something Practical for a Ooid Supper. 

A hotel keeper wrote ftrom a railroad hotel where, 
perhaps, they do not run a printed bill of fare regu- 
larly, asking suggestions as to what sort of a bill he 



THE AXEBXOAV OOOX. 



871 



should provide for an anniTersary supper and suit 
able dishes for it. Said he, **We shall have no hot 
dishes but oysters. We ha?e looked through your 
books and And nothiog suitable; they all have too 
•many hot dishes." 

About a month previous another hotel keeper had 
irritten the very same thing. 

In reply to the earlier inquiry I had given it as 
nfy experience that after the most elaborate pre 
parations of strange dishes with strange names have 
been made, the things which the company are un- 
animous in choosing and which it is important to 
have plenty of and to have waiters to supply them 
fast enough are very few. First of these is fried 
i>ysters — well fried, and garnished with lemons — 
then oysters in the other forms, cold roast turkey 
and chicken, chicken salad, ice cream, cakes and 
pastry and coffee. These do not make much of a 
ahow on a bill of fare and it is provoking to those 
who want to show the resources of the kitchen to 
find at least 150 out of 200 persons caUiogfor fried 

oysters and disappointed if they are not abundant 
and making still heavier drafts on the coffee and 
-cream when there is so much else that we think 
they ought to like better. I went on and suggested 
other good dishes both for use and appearance' sake 
and named about the proportions likely to be wanted 
of each. The supper for about 200 came off and 
apparently was satisfactory for it was much praised 
But the fried oysters were not there. Probably the 
hotel keeper w is afraid to undertake the task, as I 
had intimated that it would take 12 or 15 waiters 
4o supply fried oysters and coffee within the short 
limit of patience of his guests. But there were 
oysters stewed, scalloped and raw, and other dishes 
such as those in the bill below, and because these 
made but a small, show of words a considerable 
space was filled up enumerating relishes which were 
thus made the heaviest appearing i^art of the sup. 
per. There is some sort of a difficulty in these 
matters not to be obviated on a first attempt. In 
responding to the second inquiry, I enclosed the 
first bill of fare, repeating in part what had been 
said to the other party; crossed out some thiogs and 
suggested others, and the hotel keeper produced the 
following menu, which, under the ciroumstaaees as 
stated, must be regarded as an excellent pattern for 
other affairs of the kind. The letter inclosing the 
copy from which this is printed, is as follows: 

«I also enclose our menu for banquet given last 
evening, which we made up from suggestions made 
by you, from what all said it was a complete suc- 
cess. Had about 140. Please accept thanks for 
your kindness. 

Tourp truly. 



Ball Supper. 



MENU 



OTSTBBS. 



Baw 



Fried 



GOLD. 



Boalloped 



Tongue 



Boast Turkey 

Boneless Turkey in Aspic Jelly 
Ham Sandwiches Tea Biscuit 

Lobster Salad Chicken Salad 

Celery 

Strawberry Jelly Lemon Jelly 

Pineapple Jelly with Whipped Cream 
Charlotte Busse Vanilla Ice Cream 

Fancy Cakes Lemon Tartlets 

Knight Templar's Food 



Neapolitan Cake 

Swiss Cream Cheese 
Oranges 



Chocolate Cake 



Fruit Cake 



Bananas 



Edam Cheeaa 
Qrapes 



Almonds and Baisins 



Tea 



Coffee 



BSiffbteenth Day. 



Andaltman aoup. 



C 



Corned pork tender hint in border. 

Veal pot pie, country ttyU, 

Oniont etuffed and baked. 

Queen fritters f custard sauce. 



•• 



1274. AndaluBlan Soup. 

It is a strong brown soup with tomatoes. 

7 quarts of soup stock. 

1 quart or a can of tomatoes. 

4 cloves of garlic. 

I cupful of minced onion. 

Same of mixed vegetables — carrot, turnip 
elery. 

4 oupfuls of browned flour. 
Throw a spoonful of butter and same of sugar in 
the saucepan of tomatoes and let simmer down rich 
at the side of the range. Boil the stock wiih vege- 
oables in it, add browned flour or butter and flour 
and then the tomatoes. Strain through a fin^ 
strainer; let boil again slowly and skim from the. 
aide until the soup looks bright and smooth. Add 
cayenne and salt. 

1276. Oomed Pork Tenderloins in 

Border. 

One of the prettiest borders for small entrees is 
finely shred Julieo vegetables of mixed colors boiled 
done in salted water, then drained into a little 
saucepan of cream sauce, or brown or yellow sauat 



372 



THB AXBBICAM COOK. 



ton Tariety. They mast be neatly out in one-inoh 
lengths. Dishes so bordered would be called a la 
I/ivemaue, in French, for no reason bat becausje a 
part of France called Ni?emon used to raise the 
best carroti and tarnips and each, as oar Michigan 
yields the best po atoes, Such a garnish costs 
iiitle besides the time. Ha?ing prepared the Tege- 
tables tMke pork teoderloins that haye been in the 
pickle about three days, boil an hour, split, and 
brown them quickly in a roast meat pan and dish 
ap with a spoonflil of the Tegetables placed first as 
ft border. 



1276. Veal Pot Pie, Country Style 

8 pounds of neck of yeal. 

1 pint of milk. 

1 small onion and slice of salt pork. 

White pepper and salt, and flour thickening. 

Baking powder paste. 
Stew the meat an hour in water just enough to 
ooTer and with the seasoning articles in it, then add 
the milk and thicken it to the consistency of cream. 
Put the stew in a deep pan that will go in the oven. 
Then mix up 

4 oupfuls of flour. 

8 large teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

1 coffee cupful of water. Salt, 
The dough should be a little too soft to handle. 
Stir it well together with a stout spoon and drop 
portions close enough to touch all over the top of 
the slew. Bake about 20 minutes. 



1277. Onions Stuffed and Baked. 

6 or 8 large onions. 

i cupful of sausage meat. 

i cupful of bread orambe. 

legg. 

1 cupful of brown saace. 

Pepper and salt. 
Peel the onions and boil them in water 10 min- 
ntes; both to extract some of the strong taste and 
to make the inside ea*y to remoTe.L !Then drain 
them and push out about htlf the insides; chop 
these and mix with them the sausage meit, and 
bread crumbs, and egg, and a good pinch of black 
pepper, and little salL Stuff the onions with the 
mixture and heap it a little on top to use up the 
surplus. Place tbem in a deep pan that will go in 
your steamer and let steam abont an hoar and a 
^«lf. Then brown them off in the oven with the cup 
of gravy poured in the pan. 

yhen not con?enient to steam they can be sim- 
mered in grayy in the oven if kept coyered with a 
greased sheet of paper. Any kind of minced cold 
meat, or part raw and part cooked without an egg. 



can be made into a savory eide dish in the aboTfr 
manner. 



1277 a. Queen Fritters, Oustard Sauce. 



For all yarieties of puff fritters and all sorts of 
sweet entrees see No. 274 Am. Pastry Cook. 



Regular Breakfast Bill of Fare of a summer re^ 
sort. Ho! el ra es, $4 and $5 a day. 

HOTEL KAATERSKILL 

BRBAKPAST. 



FRUIT. 



Coffee Chocolate Oolong and English Breakfast Tea. 

Cocoa Shells 



Irish Oat Meal Hominy Grits Cracked Wheat 

risH 

Broiled Salt Mackerel Codfish, with Cream 
Broiled Burlington Herring Fried Pan Fish 
Fish Cakes Broiled Fresh Mackerel 
Broiled Smoked Salmon Broiled Fresh Salic:^ 

BROILED. 

Sirloin Steak Veal Cutlets Calfs Li?«r and Baooa 

Ham Breakfast Bacon Mutton Chops 

Tripe Limb Chops 

tSilKD. 

Ham and Eggs Clam Fritters 

Veal Chops — ^plain or.breaded Breakfast Bacon^ 

LlTsr and Btcan Beefsteak, with Onions 

Fried Hominy or Mush 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Corned Beef Hash Frizzled Beef in Cream- 

Stewed Mutton Kidnejs Stewed Clams 
Stewed Tripe 

EGGS. 

Omelettes— Plain or with Parsley, Onions, Tomatoes^. 

Ham, Kidneys or Spanish 

Boiled Fried Scrambled Poached 



POTATOES 



Saratoga Chips 
Fried 



Baked Stewed 

Lyonaise Sante 



B&BAD 



French and Qraham Bread Plain Bread 

Kaaterskill Flannel Rolls Graham Muffina 

Corn Muffins Potato Bread 

French R^rs Saratoga Rolls Toasi 

Ka'ttrskill Flannel Cakes, with Maple Symp 



373: 



Nineteenth Day 



Scotch mutton broth, 



Breaded calj*8 head, tomato aauce. 

Beef slew withpotatoes. 
Minced Turkey with poached igga. 



1278. Sootoh Mutton Broth. 



8 qoarls of mutton broth or stock. 

8 tablespoonfuls of pearl barley. 

1 pint of lean boiled mutton cut in dice. 

Same of mixed Tf getables, mostly turnips. 

A buncb of parsley. Pepper and salt. 
Wash the barley and put it on in plenty of water, 
let boil about two hours, then wash the blue*looking 
liquor away from it and keep it ready. 

It c<in easily be managed to hayo this kind o 
soap whfn there is a surplus of lamb and mutton to 
be boiled and used. Got the carrot, turnip, onion 
and celery in pmall dice, cook them in the broth and 
add the barley,meat,and chopped parsley at last. It 
should be but very slightly thickened if at All. 



1281. Minoed Turkey with Poaohed 

8 pounds of cooked turkey meat. 

1 quart of cream sauce. 

A poached egg for each dish — 18 or 20. 
Read about cuitiog and carving fowls at No.lOl5. 
Gut the meat neatly into small dice. Make th«% 
white sauce as rich as supreme sauce, if wiBhed,an<l 
put the cut meat into it. Dish a spoonful in the in 
diyidual dish, press a hollow in the top and place ft 
soft poached egg well drained from wattr. 



1279. Breaded Oalf a Head, Tomato 

Sauoe. ^ 

Saw the head in two, beginning at the crown, and 
take out the brains and tongue. Steep in a pan of 
co'd water an hour or two, then drop it in the stock 
boiler and cook until the skin is tender enough to 
be cut with the point of a spoon. Some take but an 
hour, others two hours. Take it up and set away 
ii become quite cold. After that take out the 
b nes and cut the meat in pieces of suitable size for 
one to each dish. Dredge with salt and pepper, 
roll in flour, dip in fgg and then in cracker meal 
and fry in hot fat. It is necessary to be particular 
to flour and coat the pieces well. The gelatinous 
ealf s head looks only like a lump of grease if not 
perfectly breaded and then well drained. 

Serve with good tomato sauce well stewed down 
in the dish, but not poured over the meat. The 
brains scrambled with eggs may serve for patties. 
The tongue either to cut up in soup or used as boiled 
tongue, or in a stew. 



1280. Beef Stew with Potatoee. 



2 pounds of pieces of beef. 

8 potatoes. 

1 onion. Salt and pepper. 
Let the meat be one-fourth fat. The flank pieces 
that come off the ends of porter house steaks make 
the best stew. Having the pieoes cut all to one site 
put them on with water enough just to cover and 
let stew slowly for two hours. Put in the onion cut 
small and potatoes whole; cook till done, add sea- 
•ooing and thickening of flour and keep simmering 
at the Bide of the range until wanted. 



HOTEL KAATERSEILL. 



SUFPBB. 



FRUIT OB PRESEBVBS. 



Tea 



Coffee 



Chocolate 



FISH. 



Burlington Herring Fried Fresh Fish 



BROILED. 

Beefsteak 
Mutton Chops 
Ham 
Lamb Chops 

Deviled Kidney 



COLD MEATS 

Roast Beef 
Chicken 
Him 
Beef Tongue 

Boned Capoft 



Spiced Mackerel. Sardines, Pickled Lamb Tongue^ 

BOGS. 

Fried Scrambled Plain Omelettes 

POTATOES. 

Fried Lyonaise Saute Saratoga 

Haebed Potatoes, with oream or browned 

BREAD. 

Com Mush and Milk Oat Meal and Vanilla Wafers 

Toast Tea Biscuit Cream and Soda Crackers 

Kaaterskill Flannel Gakesiwith Maple Syrup. 



Twentieth Day. 
F%»h muUigatawney soup. 



Larded ealft liver, crisped onions, 

Blanquette of lamb, Parisian style. 

Fish fondue. 

Turkey patties. 



1282. Fish Mulliffatawney Soap» 

6 quarts of fish stock. 
1 quart panfbl of pieoes of fish. 
6 or 8 green onions. 
Butter size of an egg. 
4 'ablespoonfuls of curry powder, 
1 pod of red pepper. 
2cupfuls of brDwned flour, 
l^large lemon. Salt. 
Some dry boiled rice, 
r a Lenten soup boii a large fish in water 



S74 



THB AMB&ICAN OOOX. 



irith berb seasoDiDgs in it, as mentioDed at Nofl.920 
•«nd 930. Tbis gi^es you a ii^ood fish soup already 
lialf made. Some kind of firm fish tbal tbe meat 
irill part in flakes, like snapper, carp of salmon, 
should be chosen. Pick it apart free from skin, fat 
or bones. Put the butter in a saucepan, slice the 
onicns into it, with a little of the green tops. 

Simmer until they are nearly dry and beginning 
to frj, then fill up with fish stock. Mix the curry 
powder and brown flour together, stir up with stock 
«Dd add them for thickening. Let boil up, then 
strain into tbe soup pot, put in the fish, simmer at 
the side of the range and sliim frequently, as the 
fat and skum rises at the side. Add lemon juice in 
the tureen. Serve a spoonful of boiled rice in the 
plates as well as the flakes offish that are in the soup. 



1288. Larded Calf's Iiiver» Crisped 

Onions. 



It should be borne in mind that, howoTor it may 
^teem to be disguised by the Tarions names which 
(he cooks ha?e been proud to bestow upon its differ. 
«ot forms, liyer and bacon has always been a fa- 
Torite di^h. The decided flayor has been employed 
in numerous ways to gi?e life to other dishes that, 
If perhaps more delicatf , still seem decidedly tame 
to palates that are sated with good things. Such 
sests as the liTcr forcempat for spreading on tbe 
inside of booed quails and around the wal?s of a 
truffled cold pie, and such is pate de foie gras, im- 
ported in jars. Bacon is tbe natural concomitant; 
liyer and bacon always go together. The li?er 
fiaTor being uniTcrsally approved there is only a 
question of kind. Goose li?er ranks best and calf 
li?er next. This kind is therefore scarce and dear 
in the cities, being always in great demand at the 
restaurants. Beef li?er is next best and most gen- 
«ra*ly ayailable. Sheep liyer is hard and not fit to 
use at all. For this entree take 
4 pounds of calf s li?er. 

1 pound of fat bacon. 
Spiced salt and pepper. 

2 quart ptnful of sliced onions for border. 
Gut the bacon in strips site of a common pencil; 

Toll them in mixed spices or aromatic salt, draw 
them into the liTcr with a larding needle in such a 
direction that they will be sliced across when the 
liver is served. 

Put the remaining scraps of liacon in a saucepan, 
the liver on top, a cupful of stock (and half as much 
sherry if you use it) and set it on to cook with a 
lid on. When the liquid is all boiled away as the 
bacon fries and browns turn the liver over to get a 
light brown on both sides. Then take it out, pour 
Che grease out of the siacepan and make a thick- 



ened gravy of the glaze that remains, adding a sea- 
soning of pepper, and strain it off. 

To crisp the onions for a border to the dis&et 
needs great care; slice them all to one th'cknessand 
fry them light yellow without blackening any, in a 
saucepan of hot fat precisely like frying Saratoga 
chips. The onions, of course, separate in rings. 
Put in a few at a time. They take but three min- 
u'es to cook. Drain in a colander. Place them 
with a fork in the dish, some gravy underneath and 
slice of larded liver in the midst. 



1284. Blanquette of Lamb, Parisian 

Style. • 



Cook the breast of lamb whole (or any other part 
that may be to spare fopthis dish) by boiling in sea- 
soned stock, then press it between two pans antil 
cold and after that out it in pieces suitable for the 
individual dishes. 

Boil down the liquor the meat was cooked in 
until it is very rich; strain it through a fine seive, 
boil it again and thicken it, then thin it down with 
cream, making a white sauce of it, like supreme. 

Prepare potatoes as directed at No. 963, stewing 
them in butter (which may afterwards be used for 
other purposes) because in water they would be 
sure to break and be useless. Sprinkle them with 
chopped parsley, but they should not be browned 
for this dish. 

Make the pieces of lamb hot again in some sea- 
soned broth. Dish up one or two pieces in a disli, 
cover with a spoonful of the white sauoe and plaoo 
a border of the potato boulettes around. 



1286. Fish Fondue. 



A fine dish for Lent and for Fridays. Taka s 
boiled fish of a firm-fleshed sort — haddook,ood,pike, 
salmon, halibut, buffalo or carp — and when cold 
pick the meat from the bones in flakes or strips. 
After that proceed precisely the same as for maear 
roni and cheese, using the fish in place of maoaronL 
See No. 1241. 



1286. Turkey Patties. 



Prepare minced turkey as at No. 1281 for turkey 
with poached eggs. Bake oval shaped flats of pnfl 
paste; split them; dish a spoonful of mince on the 
bottom crust, put the top crust upon it and gamislL 
with a sprig of parsley. 



THB AKE&ICAN OOOK. 



375^ 



Speeiftl Breakfast Bill of Fare at a 4^ollar-a-da7 
botel. 

BREAKFAST. 



CHRISTMAS, 1888. 



FRUITS IN BRA80N. 

fitewed Oysters Fried Oysters Broiled Oysters 

Craoked Wheat Oatmeal 

Choc slate Black and Oreen Tea Coffee 

BROILED riSH 

Mutton Chops Ham Bacon Liyer Tripe Veal Cutlets 

Broiled Beefsteak, Plain, with Mushrooms, Onions 

or Tomato Sauce 

Broiled Figs' Feet PorkChope Sanaage 

Pork Spareribs 

TRIED CHICKEH. 
EOGS. 

Boiled,Poached,Fried,Sbirred, Scrambled,Omelettes 



the flour into it and let cook together, set just in. 
side the oyen, until it begins to show light yellow. 
This gi?es a go )d fla?or, but there must be no 
brown color. Then put it in the soup, taking care 
it does not go in a mtss to (he bo 'torn and burn. 
When it has boiled a short time and bee me thick 
add the milk, which should be hot, and strain the 
soup into the regular soup pot. Crush some tapio* 
oa, take two heaping tables poonfuls and put in the- 
soup and continue the cooking about half an hour 
longer. Season to taste. 



lyonnaise 



POTATOES. 

Baked Fried 

Stewed in Cream 



Saratoga 



9raham Bread Hot Rolls 
Buckwheat Cakes 



Luncheon, 1 to 2:80 p.m. 



Plain White Bread 
Cora Muffins 

Dinner, 6 to 8 p.m. 



Twenty-first Day. 

French cream soup. 

Young pigeon pie. 

Saute oflamhe' kearta — Touloiuaine. 

Artichokes in gravy, 

Curry of veal with rice. 

Orange fritters f port mne sauce. 



1287. French Oream Soup. 

This soup can be made equally as good as potage 
a la reine, which it closely resembles. Make the 
stock rich with plenty of yeal necks and shanks or 
calf S' head and feet. Take 

5 quarts of Teal stock, 

3 quarts of milk. 

1 head of celery . 

1 cupful of minced onion* 

A bunch of parsley. 

1 large slice of ham. 

1 cupful of butter. 

2 cupfuls of flour. 
2 tablespoonfals of tapioca. 
Blade of mace, cayenne, salt. 

Set the stock on to boil and put in the celery, 
onion, parsley end mace. 

Melt the butter in a frying pan, put in the ham 
«nd let it cook in the butter at the side of the range 
until it stops simmering and begins to try, then stirj When the crust of your meat pie of any kin<k 



It is a rule of the kitchen that the cook who makes 
^he sou p'can not salt and pepper it by the taste, but 
he adds what he knows must be an insufficient quan- 
tity of those articles and allows some oi her person 
fresh from the] open air to be the iudge. Most 
cooks by the time they ha?e prepared an elaborate 
dinner can hardly de'ect a salt taste in the brine 
from a salt beef barrel,and cayenne makes no more 
impression on their palate than sugar or starch* 
The effect of the heat and fumes of the cookery. 

1288. Toonfir Piffeon Pie. 

As old pigeons are hardly fit to be eaten at all,. 
and at any latemust be cooked three or four bours^ 
it is necessary to designate these used either young 
pigeons or **squabe." 

2 dozen young pigeons. 

1 pound of butter. 

8 quarts of broth or water. 

Flour thickening, pepper, salt. 

4 pounds of pie paste. 
The squabs oan be picked dry, but a' little easier- 
if scalded. Singe and draw, splitting them down 
the back first, like broiliog chickens, and then cut 
in haWes. Wash and dry them, flatten a little with 
the side of the cleayer, pepper and salt and flour on 
both sides, then frj them slightly in the butter- 
melted in the same baking pan the pie is to be made 
in. 

When the squabs haTC acquired a light brown on. 
both sides pour into the pan about 3 quarts of broth 
or water and set in in the stoye that they may stew 
tender while you make the crust. See whether the 
flour on the birds has thickened the liquor suffici- 
ently, and add salt and pepper. Coyer with a thin 
sheet of short pie paste the same as directed for 
chicken pie at No. 1198, or with common puff paste 
if preferred. The diftereoce between this kind of 
pie and the chickeo pie referred to is in the pigeons 
being in a brown butter grayy instead of a stew. 
Guinea fowls, young chickens, quail and similai 
kinks can be made into pies the same way, with nfv 
seasonings, but brown butter and flour, pepper and 

salt, and they are among the dishes which nearly^ 
eyerybody calls for. 



376 



THE AMEBICAK COOK. 



<*gi?e8 out/* as is often tbe oase when it is good,roll 
out a sheet of paste thin, lay it on a baking pan and 
mark squares, if there is time, by running a paste 
jagger over and across it. Bake it in ten minutes. 
Lay the squares on top of the remainder of the pan 
of pie. 



1289. Saute of Lambs' Heetrts— 
Toulousaine. 



To slice and cut the lambs' hearts in a large fry- 
ing pan like any other saute is only a short opera- 
tion, to be performed shortly before dinner. But 
to give the dish the style named commence some* 
what earlier and make a forcemeat the same as if 
for stu£fed onions (No. 1277) and add a little garlic 
to it. Make it up in small balls, about as large as 
walnuts, roll them in flour and bake them in a pan 
containing a little iroast meat fat until they have a 
light brown color. 

Serve two slices or half a heart with the saute 
grayy upon it and two or three or four of the 
baked forcemeat balls placed around, and two or 
three olives that have been made hot in a little 
brown sauce. 



I290. Artiohokes in Gravy. 



Let the artichokes lie in a pan of cold water, the 
sameas is the rule for cauliflower, spinach, etc., an 
hour or two before they are to be cooked. Wa«h 
well, and if the tips of the leaves are discolored, 
clip them; cut the artichokes in two and remove the 
stringy core. Have the water ready boiliog, put in 
a teaspoonful of salt and baking soda the size of a 
bean, boil the artichokes about ^ hour or until the 
soft end of the leaf when pulled out proves to be 
tender. Drain and serve like cauliflower, 2 pieces 
in a dish, set upright,and roast beef gravy or brown 
•auce poured around but not all over them. 



1291. Ourry of Veal with Bioe. 

1 pound of veal, 

2 tablespoonfuls of minced onion. 
Same of grated oocoanut. 

1 tablespoonful of curry powder. 
Same of flour. 
1 pint of broth. 

Salt, cayenne, juice of half a lemon. 
A quart of boiled rice. 
Put the meat, cut in pieces, in a saaoepan with a 
little fat or butter and the onion and let fry together 



a few minutes to acquire a light color but not brown. 

Dredge in the curry powder, cocoanut and flour 
and stir until all are well mingled, then add broth 
or water, and milk of a cocoanut if at hand, cover 
and let stew slowly for an hour. Salt and small 
pinch of cayenne to be added at last, and the fat 
carefully skimmed off. 

Cook rice specially for it, in loose, dry, distinct 
grains, slightly seasoned with salt and butter drop- 
ped 3n top to mix while cooking without stirring. 
Dish a. light heap of rice at one end of the dish, and 
the curry in the remaining space. 



1292. Oranfire Fritters with Port Wine. 



Divide the oranges in sections by the natural di- 
visions, removing the white pith andseeds.and drop 
(hem in a pan of hot syrup; out of that with a fork 
into a pan of flour and coat them with it, then into 
fritter batter (No. 1202) and fry in lard or oi1,8ame 
an apple or peach fritters. Sauoe No. 478 or 490. 



Regular Breakfast Bill of Fare of a good 2-dollar- 
a-day hotel in the interior. 

BREAKFAST. 



PRUIT. 



Mooba Coffee 
Cream 



Tea Milk 

Chocolate 



BBOILID. 

Chicken Tenderloin Steak Lamb Chops Ham 
Breakfast Bacon Mackerel 



Sausage 



Ham 



FBIED. 

Oysters 

GOLD MEATS. 

Corned Beef 



Cod Fish Balls 



Chicken 



BOOS. 

Fried Poached Omelet Boiled 

Scrambled Shirred 



POTATOES. 



Baked Sweet Potatoes 
Stewed Potatoes 



Baked Potatow 
Corn Beef Hash 



BBEAB. 

White Graham French Rolls 

Buckwheat Cakes 
Milk Toast Steamed Brown Bread 



Dry Toast 



Oat Meal 



THE AMERICAN COOK. 



877 



CREOLE COOKERY. 



BY JESSUP WHITEHEAD. 



Northern men who go south to engage in the 
hotel business place their fortunes in jeopardy if 
they carry with them too much of the misssion- 
ary spirit that assumes that their own section 
alone knows what to eat and how to eat it, and 
that some other section is eager to learn. It may 
chance that the cooks they employ will be the 
means of averting any very heavy disappoint- 
ment, for cooks in general have it thoroughly 
learned that the tastes of the customer are to be 
suited and not their own; but if the cook be 
allowed no discretion, or if he, too, be but a 
stranger to the wants ot the new community, it 
may not be long before the hotel keeper will be 
raying the same old plaint: 

"I TRIED TO GIVE THEIR CITY A GOOD HOTEL, 

a hotel they might be proud of, but the citizens 
would not support me and I lost all." The two 
partners in a hotel in one of the most prosperous 
southern cities said that, when they made an as- 
signment for the benefit of their creditors only a 
few months since. It was true in their case. It 
seemed strange that they should fail while they 
were doing their part so well, but it is possible 
that they differed with the community as to what 
constituted a good table, and the community 
simply let them alone. 

EVERY ITATIOX HAS ITS PREJUDICES 

against some kinds of food ; every set of people 
derides some other set of people for something 
peculiar in their diet, and there is a sensitiveness 
on that subject that is easily touched, so that the 
-setting out of the despised dishes and the omis- 
sion from the bill of fare of the sectional favorites 
may become an actual provocation of hostility be- 
tween the parties concerned. 

The greatest good in life appears to be to a vast 
number of hotel customers in the northern states, 

A JUICY BEEFSTEAK. 

The question of tough or tender seems with 
them to be a greater question than any that arises 
in business or politics or social intercourse. There 
are thousands who will try to drape the world 
around them and the sky overhead in deep mourn- 
ing if they cannot get a juicy tenderloin on de- 
mand. In the hotel business there are men who 
care and men who don*t care, and the men who 
care have the very life worried out of them in the 
perpetual effort to please these beefsteak manies. 
Perhaps one of these has solved the difficulty by 
securing regular shipments of Chicago tenderloins 
packed in ice at a cost of thirty -five cents a pound, 



and freight to be added. He may read, as every- 
body has read, the printed declaration of some 
infatuated beefsteak man that a decent beefsteak 
cannot be obtained in the South, and that a for- 
tune awaits the man who will go and do things up- 
right. But I should hope such a painstaking 
hotel man would not go with his panacea read^ 
packed in ice unless he could be sure of a ready 
run of northern custom, for in any hotel in the 
far South or at any resort sustained chiefly by 
Creole custom or by southern custom, whether 
Creole or not, it will be found that a beefsteak is 
not much thought of; it is but an indifferent ar- 
ticle of diet even when well done and dry; a 
juicy steak, although cooked through, is regarded 
as an abomination , to serve a steak rare done with 
the pink juice of it oozing in the dish, would be 
regarded as a crime against the public health, and 
the consequences to the perpetrator would prob- 
ably be something terrible. I say would be be- 
cause nobody ever does such a dreadful thing 
among the Creoles, and we can only indulge in a 
bare supposition. The Creoles eat beefsteak, of 
course, but as there are plenty of other people 
who drink coffee only for the sake of the cream 
and sugar it carries, and many more who use hot 
rolls only as a conveyance for a large amount of 
costly creamery butter, so the Creoles 

EAT BEEFSTEAKS FOR THE SAKE OF THE SAUCES, 

the vegetables or rice or macaroni or whatever it 
may be that goes with them, and although they 
may not be costly, the mode of preparation of 
these appurtenances becomes the more important 
matter. 

THE CREOLE BEEFSTEAK. 

At one period of my life I was employed as ice 
cream maker to a Creole caterer to Creole custom. 
The neighborhood was entirely French; the man 
and his wife were both Southern French cooks; 
they cooked for themselves and their hands, 
sometimes one sometimes the other, as it hap- 
pened to be convenient. I was supposed to board 
with them. They had their coffee at about six 
in the morning and nothing with it but some 
crackers or bread, all in the usual French style, 
then went to market; had no breakfast untill 
eleven or twelve, and had the principal m«eal of 
the day at six in the evening, and I found that the 
patrons of the establishment all followed a similar 
course. There was a considerable variety about 
the breakfasts; the dishes were always freshly 
co( kftJ, and nearly always were stews made of 
some inexpensive material, but it was in the third 
week before ever a beefsteak was brought into 
the house. It was a good one when it came, 
however, and large if not thick, and seemed 
strangely out of place, lying there with a bunch 



878 



THE AMERICAN COOK. 



c^ magnolia flowers and a pile of mangoes on the 
same bench with okra, egg plant, squashes and 
i.epper8. They used 

PORTABLE CHARCOAL FIRES 

in stone furnaces like buckets, that they could set 
anywhere about. There was a wire broiler hang- 
ing up against the wall. I thought the charcoal 
fire, the broiler and the big beefsteak in the na- 
tural course of events ought to come together, yet 
there was little likelihood that they would. But 
they did. Madame actually crowded that steak 
into that broiler, took it to the fire and broiled it 
brown on both sides. So they were going to sur- 
prise themselves with a real Northern broiled 
beefsteak breakfast, and that at only ten in the 
morning. I looked around for the dish, but 
Madame never brought one; she did not need 
one. When the beefsteak was done she laid it, 
still in the broiler, on top of the hot watertank of 
the cook stove and left it there. While whipping 
up a yolk of egg custard on top of the same stove 
I caught myself foolishly saying to the steak, 
"How did you get here, old aquaintance! and 
aren't you getting pretty dry up there i*" It was 
vret enough after a while, for 

MADAME BROUGHT OUT A BROAD SAUCE- PA^; 

she poured in some oil, she trew in two large 
onions and a head of garlic cut small, and let them 
fry. Then she laid in the broiled beefsteak ; then 
she emptied on top of it three cans of tomatoes, 
added a pod of red pepper and a spoonful of salt 
and let it stew together until twelve o'clock. 
Then she found a dish large enough, fished the 
meat up from the bottom, poured the tomatoes 
over it, set it in the middle of the table, and that 
was the Creole beefsteak. 

CREOLE SAUCES. 

Now, if we take an analytical view of tlie sub- 
ject, we find that the method pursued in preparing 
the Creole beefsteak constitutes the basis, if not of 
all the dishes that differ materially from those 
familiar tp the northern palate. 

"Ha!Ca!" the Creole or Southern French cook 
shouts, making a grimace of disgust when he 
tastes the simple Irish stew or homely pot pie of 
some unsophisticated assistant — *'here, put in 
some onions — plenty of onions, leeks, chives — 
and fry the onions — fry 'em in oil — un'stan'.^ — 
find trow in some garlic — crush it, you can't chop 
Jt, a whole head is not too much — and fry 'em al, 
—then put in your meat, fish, shrimps, crabs, 
chicken and fry — make them taste of something— 
un'stan }" 

And the Creole or Southern French cook must 
h&ye his sauces on hand as regularly as some 
others require a jar of butter. There must be 
first the 



SPANISH SAUCE, THE MODERN ESPAGNOLE. 

The Espagnole of our grandfathers was the- 
same thing that we now call extract of meat; the 
extract of the carcases of a whole ox could be put 
into a gallon jar. The modern Espagnole, or 
Spanish sauce, if left to some listless and thought- 
less assistant to make, as is generally the case, 
comes up little else but a paste made of flour 
browned in grease and diluted with tomato juicev 

SPANISH SAUCE OR ESPAGNOLE. 

But if the skillful cook makes it himself, he wilt 
proceed acct»rding to the method with the Creole 
beefsteak and according to his own directions as 
above repeated; he is going to put the meat or 
soup bones in the pot, and just as Madame broiled 
her beefsteak in order to get the flavor and color 
of the browned meat in her stew, so he will put 
the meat and bones for the Espagnole into a pan 
in the oven and roast them brown before putting 
them in the pot. But if for any reason it is in- 
convenient to roast them so, he will fry them 
more or less brown in the same pot or large 
saucepan with the dozen onions, carrots, turnips, 
pieces of ham and some oil. To be quite explicit,, 
he will fry the onions and other vegetables named^ 
in oil or other fat, anyway, and if he cannot roast 
the soup meat that is to be used in the sauce, he 
will fry it, too, along with them. 

ROUX AND FLOUR THICKENING. 

When that is done, when the contents of the 
saucepan are brown, highly odorous and in danger 
of burning, there arises a point of difference be- 
twixt Creole cooking and the cooler northern 
methods, for the sauce will have to be thick when 
finished, and the oi-dinary way would be to mix 
flour and water to the consistency of cream and 
pour in sufficient to give the required thickness, 
and that would be done at a later stage. But the 
Creole cook abhors water as nature abhors a 
vacuum, which will be easily observable as we 
go on, and instead of flour and water he makes 
roux (pronounced roo) in the same saucepan with 
his fried vegetables ; that is, he puts in as much 
dry flour as the oil or butter or other fat in the 
saucepan will absorb into a kind of paste, and 
stirs that around until it has bubbled and cooked 
and become partially browned, too, before he adds. 

any liquor. 

There has been a paragraph floating around in 
several papers (probably clipped from some well- 
meaning but ill-informed teacher)which confound- 
ed roux with Espagnole. It said roux was obtained 
by roasting marrow bones in the oven, and more 
of the same sort. It is not likely the common 
multitude of cooks will ever learn these funda- 
mental differences, nevertheless some of us must 
keep on saying them over again till we flicker out^ 



7HB AMERICAN COOK. 



ROUX. IS THICKENING. 

If jou mix eQiial quantities of flour and butter 
or oil together and stir it in a pan oyer a fire, as 
soon as it has bubbled up and the flour has the 
cooked taste, you have white roux for thickening 
white sauces and white soups. If you let it re- 
main longer over the fire it becomes brown and 
acquires a different and. if not scorched, a richer 
flavor, and then it is brown roux, and thickens 
brown soups and sauces. So, when the Creole 
cook stirs flour into the contents of his saucepan, 
he makes a brown roux, and immediately after 
pours in a gallon or more of soup stock, which he 
calls bouillon, and adds a quart or perhaps two 
quarts of tomatoes, two bay leaves, a few cloves, 
some salt and whole pepper and allows it to boil 
at the side for an hour or longer and then strains 
it off and sets it away to get cold. 

THE GREAT OBJECTION 

tc the making of roux in the generality of hotels 
throughout this broad land, and which forces the 
cooks to use flour and water instead, is, that to 
make roux uses up a large quantity of butter for 
which there is no visible return, for when the 
Espagnole or Spanish sauce is finished and cold, 
the grease to be taken off is so nearly worthless 
as hardly to be counted anything. Another 
objection is that an inferior grade of butter is 
likely to be furnished for the purpose, and the re- 
sult is that a dozen dishes, sauces and soups, made 
with a proportion of this Espagnole all carry the 
taste of strong butter, just as a dozen dishes, 
sauces and soups of the Creole cooks may all be 
made uneatable for a number of people by an 
excess of tomatoes in his stock sauce. But the 
Creole cook will never use the cheap and harm- 
less fiour and water. He will not take butter if 
he can get oil, and if neither is available he will 
resort to roast meat drippings, and some of his 
imitators driven to the same strait will use a grade 
of grease to make roux that would not bear inspec- 
tion. Espagnole or Spanish stock sauce is not 
peculiar to Creole cookery but is used wherever 
French methods are followed, but the Southern 
French cookery of this country resembles the 
cookery of the south of France and abounds in 
highflavored and pungent dishes, so that the Cre- 
ole cook's Espagnole is almost sure to contain 
twice as much tomato as the same stock sauce in 
the North, and is sure to contain garlic, which 
that in the North has not at all. 

SAUCE CREOLE. 

In any restaurant or hotel in the Creole quarter 
of New Orleans, and at certain restaurants in 
Galveston, if you call for an omelet a la Creole, 
an omelet of the usual appearance will be brought 
in but rolled up wihtin it is a thick mixture of 



tomatoes, onions and garlic, that have been fried 
together. This mixture is Sauce Creole, the cook 
keeps it ready prepared. It is commonly made 
with canned tomatoes, as being the easier way., 
but if specially ordered he will make it this way* 

Peel three or four tomatoes, and cut them up 
in small pieces, cut up a large onion the same 
way, slashing it across and across with the knife, 
while the onion is held in the fingers, and crush 
with the side of the knife three or four cloves of 
garlic. Pour a little oil in a broad saucepan, put 
in onion and garlic and fry light brown, then add 
the cut tomatoes, and stir the mixture over the 
fire until the tomato ju?ce has dried out, and the 
sauce is thick enough to be taken up on a knife^s 
point. Season with salt and pepper while cook- 
ing. 

This is rather strong diet when it is made care- 
fully ; the time that it appears to me to be abso* 
lutely bad, is when the onions in frying are al- 
lowed to burn and make the whole mass black 
and bitter, yet it is in demand for omelets and for 
mixing with many meat dishes in its proper sec- 
tion of countrv, and I have never found that the 
demand was lessened through the presumed bad- 
ness of a burnt sauce. It seems to illustrate the 
necessity of having a variety of dishes for a hotel 
having mixed custom ; such dishes as the Creole 
omelet would be repugnant to the taste of many 
at the hotel tables north, but would be missed and 
wanted by the southern visitor. 

SAUCE TOMATO. 

Pour into a saucepan enough oil to moisten the 
bottom, lay in some pieces of raw ham, and a< 
large onion or two chopped, and fry light brown, 
then put in a half gallon can of tomatoes or raw 
tomatoes equivalent, a head of garlic, few cloves, 
salt and pepper. Motives of economy may dic- 
tate the use of roux to thicken up the full quan- 
tity of tomato juice, but if let alone the Creole 
cook will not make use of that or any other kind of 
thickening, but will boil down the sauce, and con- 
dense the whole amount of tomatoes and season- 
ing into a small quantity, rub it through a strainer 
and keep it ready for use in like manner with the 
Espagnole and Sauce Creole. 

USE OF STOCK SAUCES. 

In order to let the uninitiated into the knowledge 
of the reasons why these sauces are made, let u9^ 
show a few dishes. 

TRIPE A LA CREOLE. 

Cut some cooked tripe in strips, size of a little 
finger, give it a boil up in a saucepan of water; 
then drain away the water and put with the tripe 
one spoonful of sauce Creole, and two spoonfuls 
of Espagnole, shake up, make hot and serve. 



THB AMERICAN COOK. 



STEWED KIDNEYS A LA CREOLE. 

Cut the kidneys lengthwise, then across into 
small pieceSf give them a boil in a saucepan of 
-water and skim away the top, drain off the water 
and put in with the kidneys one spoonful of sauce 
tomato and two of Espagnole and make hot 

MACARONI A LA CREOLE. 

Break the sticks of macaroni in three pieces; 
boil in salted water half an hour; drain away the 
water and pour over the macaroni equal quantities 
of sauce tomato and Espagnole, shake up and 
serve hot. 

RAGOUT OF BEEF A LA CREOLE. 

Cut some beef into pieces about the size of an 
eggt chop an onion or two and fry in oil or butter 
in a deep saucepan light brown, then put in the 
pieces of beef and without adding any water shut 
down with a tight lid and let the meat simmer in 
its own juice, and steam for an hour or longer, 
until it, too, begins to brown on the bottom, then 
stir it about and continue the browning and pre- 
sently add to it a ladleful of soup stock (bouillon) 
and a ladleful of sauce tomato. Season with salt; 
let stew at the side an hour longer. Serve in flat 
dishes with croutons of fried bread. In case there 
is no tomato sauce on hand rub the contents of a 
can of tomatoes through a strainer, add it to the 
beef instead of the sauce, put in two cloves of 
garlic and a ladleful of Espagnole and let it stew 
down thick. 

HARICOT OF MUTTON A LA CREOLE. 

Cut the mutton to be used into pieces about the 
size of an egg, or chop the breasts of mutton in 
squares and wash in cold water. Cut about the 
same quantity of carrots and turnips into shapes 
like quarters of apples, and also two large onions 
the same way. Put them all at once into a broad 
and shallow saucepan with some oil and keep them 
shaken about over the fire until all are partially 
browned, then add soup stock (bouillon) and 
lEspagnole in equal proportions and enough in all 
to cover the meat and let stew slowly at the side 
ior one or two hours. The mutton fat and oil will 
rise at one side of the saucepan and must be skim- 
med off. Serve one or two pieces of meat in each 
dish with vegetables at each end. 

BOXnLLABAISSE AND COURTBOUILLON. 

These two dishes of fish when prepared by the 
best Creole cooks are so very similar in all respects 
but one that they seem to belong one to the other. 
Bouillabaisse is the old, a dish of the ante-tomato 
period, a remainder from the middle ages when 
saffron was plentifully employed for a choice sea- 
soning. Courtbouillon is the new, a transmutation 
of the same wrought by the introduction of the 
tomato ; it is scarcely seventy-five years old. This 
accounts for the particular affection some of the 



old and gray-haired cutsiniers exhibit for the for- 
mer dish, the pertinacity with which they will 
bring it forward at every sly chance that occurs, 
with little regard to the fact that the present 
generation cares nothing for it They look back 
to a time when its production to perfection was 
among their best works, and they make it again 
and again, always surprised to find it is no longer 
an object of admiration. I have watched some 
such superannuated old cronies, had two or three 
together at times and saw them comparing qualities 
o£ t}ieir respective boxes of Spanish saffron ; seen 
tK^m hold joint sessions over the pot of tawny 
colored stew, take their bottle of sour wine with it 
and eat it all themselves, seeing they could get few 
or none to help. Still, bouillabaisse is a savory 
dish and good in some degree ; it is better, liowever^ 
with the saffron left out, and with tomatoes added 
instead, but thdn it is no longer the ancient dish 
but the new — courtbouillon, or '^fish au court- 
bouillon." At least that is how it appears to me. 
Sometimes I have surprised these old fellows 
with the query: "What is the difference between 
bouillabaisse and courtbouillon besides the differ- 
ence of color? Both look nearly alike, and they 
are stewed alike; one is a brownish yellow with 
saffron and a little curry in it, the other is a reddish 
brown with the color of the tomatoes — ^what is the 
difference otherwise?" "The difference? Oh, there 
is a great difference. In the first place bouilla- 
baisse is made with white wine, and courtbouillon 
is made with red wine ; and in the next place the 
difference is — er — well, you see, one is boo-ycr- 
base and the other is cor-boo-yon." 

There is another little difference, however, for 
by some means or other bouillabaisse has gotten 
into literature, while courtbouillon has not; for 
one instance, it is stated the elder Dumas prided 
himself upon making bouillabaisse, and, for 
another a great English novelist wrote a "Ballad 
of Bouillabaisse," which alone has been sufficient 
to raise the "what is it" question, and a magazine 
gives it out as an interesting discovery that "it is 
a sort of fish chowder." That is not far wrong, 
yet not quite right, according to the Creole 
practice. Boston cooks make bouillabaisse in the 
Boston hotels where the greatest number of public 
and private banquets are prepared. What they 
make is a curry soup with fish in it and the ordinary 
soup vegetables. But there is an exceedingly tired 
look comes into the Creole cook's face when he 
sees the Boston cooks make bouillabaisse that way 
down in his country, not only because the Creole 
prefers saffron to curry, but because he does not 
make it or serve it as soup, but as fish, with which 
the sauce is the better part It may be true that 
somewhere in a book we have read of "Bouilla* 
baisse or Provencale soup," but that makes m> 






THB AMERICAN 9OOK. 



381 



"difference while the Creoles show it to be fish 
stewed in wine and saffron, for the Creole terri- 
tory is the Provence of America ; the people have 
the old Provencal ways with new ways grafted 
upon them, and they have the earlier dish of 
•bouillabaisse made in their own way, which was 
perfection in days before tomatoes were known, 
and now in common with the newer. people with 
new ways they have the later dish of courtbouillon. 
There is another difference which is of more 
practical concern to us, which is that while the 
-dish of bouillabaisse is not in any special demand 
and is only just very well in its way and for the 
occasional gratification of an epicurean curiosity, 
the courtbouillon has come to be one of the 
standard dishes of the Southern hotels and restau- 
rants, and it is incumbent upon every cook to be 
able to produce it, and upon every steward to know 
when it is made as it ought to be. It is named in 
the printed bill of fare of every restaurant of any 
note. The hotels serve it either for breakfast, 
lunch, or dinner, some having it for a regular dish 
on the breakfast bill the same as the restaurants. 
The name is nothing new. Courtbouillon in the 
North and over the sea signifies the seasoned broth 
in which a fish is to be boiled wh61e, but this of the 
Creole cuisine is different 

BOUILLABAISSE. 

Take a large fish of any kind that can be cut in 
slices without bones, take out the back-bone and 
cut the two sides in pieces of the right size for 
serving individually. Chop the bone and head in 
pieces and put them on to boil in two quarts of 
water. That makes the stock. Put into the stock 
a good pinch of saffron. It is in threads, something 
like fine-cut tobacco — can be bought, put up in tin 
boxes — and it colors the stock yellow. Put into 
the stock, also, a couple of bay leaves, a leek or 
green onion and seasoning of salt and pepper. 

Then to cook the fish, take a broad and shallow 
hotel saucepan and pour into it about a cupful of 
oil ; mince a large onion quite fine and three or 
four cloves of garlic likewise and put them in with 
the oil. Dip the slices of fish in flour, getting a 
good coating on both sides, lay them on top of the 
minced onion in the saucepan, set over the fire, let 
simmer until they begin to color, and turn the 
slices over. At this stage in the cooking some 
will shake in a teaspoonful of curry powder, but 
the high- French, Provencal and Creole cooks will 
not Curry is an Anglo-Indian product and not 
considered to belong to such ultra Gallic dishes as 
this. Now pour into the saucepan a pint of white 
wine, and then through a strainer add the quart or 
more of saffron-colored fish stock and let the whole 
simmer gently while the half-browned flour that 
the fish was coated with thickens the liquor and 



all the oil that has been used oozes to the top to be 
thoroug^y removed by skimming. The sauce is 
thick — thicker than turtle soup. Make some toast 
very thin, brown and dry. Serve the fish upon 
the toast and the sauce poured over it But a 
Creole restaurant dish of either this or court- 
bouillon is a soup plateful with the fish upon a slice 
of toast like a ^^Boston fancy** oyster stew. 

FISH AU COURTBOUILLON. 

Take a five-pound fish of any good variety, such 
as snapper, red fish or trout, remove the backbone 
and head, and boil them in water to make the 
stock. While it is boiling throw in a dozen cloves, 
a few pieces of soup vegetables, two bay leaves, 
and add a small can of tomatoes. Next, pour a 
cupful of oil into a broad and shallow hotel sauce- 
pan ; mince a large onion and two or three cloves 
af garlic and fry in the oil until they begin to 
color. Add a basting-spoon of flour and stir it 
over the fire, then add through a strainer two or 
three pints of tomato stock, stir until it has become 
thick ; add a pint of wine. Lay in the fish cut in 
slices; season with salt and cayenne and let stew 
until the fish is sufliciently cooked, about half an 
hour, and skim off all the oil as it arises. The 
sauce should be thick. Serve the fish on thin toast 
or with a strip of toast in the dish and the sauce 
poured over. 

EXPEDIENCY. 

The dish of fish, au courtbouillon, is usually 
vei'y good as served for the hotel dinner, and only 
a very poor imitation as served for breakfast. 
This is because the orders at breakfast are few and 
do not justify a careful preparation, and something 
is apt to be improvised out ol tomato sauce and 
Espagnole that is not calculated to commend the 
dish to the customer for a second trial. Even for 
the dinner it may be diflicult to prepare it through 
want of the proper kind of saucepan. The cook 
who once knows what the dish ought to be, how- 
ever, will reflect that there are more ways to kill 
a kitten besides running a railroad train over it 
The courtbouillon can be produced very well 
indeed in a deep baking pan set in the oven on the 
bottom. Put in the oil, the onion, garlic, and slices 
of fish, then a pint or a quart — as the quantity 
needed may be — of tomatoes passed through a 
strainer, then soup-stock from the regular stock- 
boiler, enough to cover the slices of fish ; salt and 
pepper and then bake it Add thickening .and a 
cup of wine; tip up the pan and skim off all the oil 
from one end ; serve on slices of thin toast 

THE USE OF WINE IN COOKING. 

The liking for wine in cooked dishes is an 
acquired taste; people of simple habits learn to 
relish the wine- flavored viands very slowly, if ever. 



882 



THE AMERICAN COOK. 



It is only the Creoles who use it for cooking — if 
they can get it — as freely as water. But they use 
wine at their meals instead of coffee, tea or milk, 
a cheap wine which they buy by the gallon or keg, 
and often dilute it with water ; it is no dearer than 
coffee or the other common beverages. It all 
depends upon what sort of people the cooking is 
lor, whether there should be a quart of wine in 
the dish or only a quarter of a pint. 

THE USE OF OIL IN COOKING. 

The use of oil for cooking purposes is spreading 
very fast. Refined cotton-seed oil can now be 
bought at the mills at fifty cents per gallon by the 
barrel; it takes the place of butter and lard for 
frying, it is as yearly tasteless as an oil can be, and 
has the appearance of olive oil. Creole land is 
not a butter-making land, and oil has always been 
the common cooki ug and seasoning ingredient 
with them. It comes in good place to beat into 
fritter and pancake batter, is quite an improve- 
ment, but does not seem so appropriate to butter 
green peas or parsnips with. But it all depends on 
where you were raised. 

SAFFRON AND CURRY. 

A great many people who are strangers to the 
peculiarities of the Creole cuisine have met with 
saffron, but it was in the sick room, in the form of 
saffron tea, an infusion of a beautiful yellow color 
that is administered to people who are afflicted 
with jaundice and are of a beautiful yellow color, 
too, probably on the principle that like cures like ; 
but what there is in the flavor of this herb to 
commend it for an ingredient of a family stew the 
many will be at a loss to discover. There is 
nothing plainer, however, than that our tastes are 
influenced by climate and degrees of latitude, and 
it is a preservative instinct that leads to the use of 
the proper corrective. Curry, both powder and 
paste, has been persistently thrust into the English 
people's dinners by the influence of the many 
returned East Indian officers and their families 
who learn to like it in a hot climate, but it falls into 
disuse in one quarter as fast as it is advanced in 
another. Curries come to be natural enough 
dishes, however, in the South United States and 
not nearly so many people will think a chicken is 
wasted when curry powder is shaken upon it down 
here as in the North. Saffron is a flowering herb. 
Curry powder is composed of several ingredients 
of which the principal is turmeric, and that is a 
root, a kind af ginger, with nearly the same prop- 
erties as ginger; it is that which gives curry its 
vellow color. The housewives of the Southern 

• 

States very generally use turmeric to give a yellow 
color to pickled cabbage and onions. Ground 
cardamons, coriander and pepper are added to 
turmeric and we have curry powder, a good mix- 



ture of good spices, good enough to administer as 
a medicine in an attack of green apples, and oi^ht 
to be better known than it is. Still it is faiily 
appreciated everywhere along the Gulf shores,, 
and also by about six persons out of every hundred 
that we meet on the cars and in the streets. But 
there is many a Creole familj' sitting round a 
table provided with a steaming saffron stew made 
in this way. 

HACHIS A LA CREOLE. 

Cut a piece of cooked mutton or beef in thin 
slices and some potatoes the same way, then divide 
the slices into little triangular shaped pieces and 
set them all over the fire to stew, with enough of 
broth or water to barely cover ; add a leek or green 
onion cut small, a sprig of thyme, a minced pod 
of red pepper and some salt. While it is stewing, 
make some saffron tea by pouring boiling water to 
some saffron in a cup and when it has become 
strong strain it into the stew. It makes it of a 
bright yellow color, and the stew should be made 
thick by boiling down. Serve with dry toast. 

CREOLE CODFISH AND POTATOES. 

Mash cooked salt codfish and potatoes together 
in the usual way for codfish balls, but instead of 
balling it up dry, put it in a saucepan with a little 
onion very finely minced, a small amount of red 
pepper pod the same way, a spoonful of oil, a raw 
egg and a spoonful of saffron tea, and stir the 
mixture over the fire long enough for the eggs in 
it to be cooked. When turned out into the dish 
it is about the concistency of freshly mashed 
potatoes, but of a yellow butter color; it is served 
for breakfast or lunch. 



American codfish balls are an object of aversion 
to the Creole cooks, and perhaps to some others 
besides, and cause them so much annoyance that 
they never make any croquette in the round shape 
nor form any sort of compound in that fashion 
for fear by any mischance any person should for 
a moment suppose that it was a codfish ball, and 
they were the makers. 



The foregoing are the only examples I can call 
to mind of the use of potatoes in any Creole dishes. 
They make meat stews with squashes cut up in 
them and egg-plants, cucumbers, okra, green peas 
and string beans, but rarely use potatoes. 



GUMBO. 

Now we are going to plow in new ground, as 
many a new settler in Florida has a chance to do, 
for it does not appear that anybody has ever 
observed that the queer little Indians, mostly 
women and girls who sit on their heels on the 
ground at the market corners, almost as passive 



THE AMBBIOAN COOK. 



883 



and motionless as wooden figures are the undis- 
puted monopolists of gumbo. I wonder how many 
or few, if any, of the thousands of visitors from 
-distant scenes and divers customs ever unravel the 
enigma of their being there at all. They stop to 
look, sometimes, these plumed and beautified units 
of the superior race and the little black Indian 
■eyes look up expectantly. 

"What is that?" says the gloved finger, pointing 
to a lot of dull green powder in a sack with the 
top rolled down. 

"Gumbo file,'' says the small voice that belongs 
to the little black eyes ; so small that a whisper 
<:ould be heard better. 

"And what is that?" says the hand with the 
glistening bracelet, pointing to some bunches of 
dried leaves. 

"Lau-rel," (bay leaves) replies swarthy face, 
looking around at the two or three other swarthy 
faces as if asking what they think of the fine birds 
who ask questions but never buy. 

"And what is that?" says the gayf ringed parasol 
which all the swarthy faces are admiring, as it 
points to a pile of pieces of pliable matted stuff 
that looks like it might be the roots of swamp 
rushes. 

But the little swarthy faces do not answer, they 
only turn to each other in perplexity; they can 
look and speak but never smile, and they cannot 
«ay "scrubbing brushes" to these shining silk 
dresses — what would they know about scrubbing 
brushes? 

"But I must ask what this is,^* says the bonnet 
with the bright bird upon it, nodding at some 
bundles of red roots. 

"Oh, come along, I know what that is," answers 
the youth with the cane, who has been all this 
while watching for signs of life in the large eyed 
Indian girl in the back-ground — "come along, 
that's sassafras root, and this other stuff is either 
slippery elm or something like it." 

And they passed on, knowing no more about 
the gumbo monopoly than they did at first. The 
market master comes around next to collect his 
taxes, and all the other venders have something to 
say, either to complain of small sales or high 
•charges, or to joke philanthropically about a 
burdensome taxation, but when he comes to the 
gumbo sellers the little black eyes are raised to his, 
the swarthy hands drop the ready coin into his 
palm, he passes on and never a word is spoken. 
So everything about gumbo is enigmatical. It is 
a strange little stock of merchandise to expect to 
sell, and strange to say they never seem to sell 
anything, and always their stock looks the same 
with the same little horn measure in the same bag 
of green dust every day, but certainly there must 
he buyers who come out of the Creole quarters 



early In the morning and buy, else there soon 
would be a failure of coins for the tax-gatherer. 
And there is a peculiarly thick mystery about the 
stuff itself. Where is there a gumbo factory? 
There are many cities of a hundred thousand 
people that do not and never did contain an ounce 
of gumbo, yet some have heard of such a thing as 
gumbo soup. But suppose they should want 
gumbo, how would they get it? Only the passive 
Indian women sitting on the market corners 
prepare it and sell it, and what will the city people 
with their fast mail and immediate delivery, and 
through express and rapid messengers do if the 
Indian women has just tied up the mouth of her 
sack and disappeared in the depths of the forest 
primeval and all the gumbo with her? 

Gumbo file (felay-dry) is supposed to be okra 
dried and powdered, but that is only a supposition, 
and it is' still unkown whether the modern arts of 
adulteration have reached the Indian manufac- 
turers or not, and whether the adulterant, if used, 
is not better than the real article. Gumbo file is a 
native American product, yet remains unprotected ; 
the government chemist knows nothing about it, 
there has been no quantitative analysis of the 
several brands of Seminole, Teche, and Cherokee. 
It is a Southern agricultural resource, yet the 
patriotic patent office reports do not report it, and 
our consuls to foreign states are taking no steps to 
extend the market for it or present the claims of 
gumbo soup. 

But at some time in the future, when the last of 
these groups of moccasined Indian women with 
the last sacks af gumbo file upon their backs shall 
have disappeared in the depths of the virgin forest 
for the last time an interesting inquiry will be 
raised of what permanent effect upon the dietary 
practices of these Southern States, their three 
hundred years of sitting on market corners, pre- 
senting their singular wares for sale has had. Who 
taught us to make and like lye hominy ? Indians. 
Who popularized "sassafrax," sarsaparilly, winter* 
green, slippery elm bark, chewing roots, chewing 
gum, corn cob pipes, tobacco? And who implanted 
in the nature of their sociable neighbors the French 
immigrants and their descendants the Creoles a 
love for chicken gumbo soup? 

CREOLE SOUP. 

It is characteristic of the Creole soups that they 
are always thick, fit to serve for a complete meal, 
both meat and drink. The Creoles are in accord 
with the north frigid people hi thinking the trans- 
parent French consommes are transparently too 
thin and next akin to nothingness. A good example 
of a Creole soup is a dish of Coney Island Clam 
chowder when the clams are numerous enough to 
crowd out the potatoes. Their soups are like the 



«^ 



THE AMERICAN COOK. 



Spanish olla-podrida and the Turkish pillaws and 
such stews as the lights of harems are said to feed 
each other with, using their fingers instead of 
forks, a proceeding which would, however, have 
its inconveniences if chicken gumbo were the dish 
served because of its mucilaginous adhesive quality 
and the linked sweetness long drawn out which 
still connects each departing morsel with the 
parent dish. It is this mucilaginous quality, 
resembling that of cold flaxseed tea or infusion of 
slippery elm bark, that is the recommendation 
both of the green and okra pods and of gumbo 
file, and the more slipperyelmical the soup can be 
made by boiling down, the better it will be. 

Regarding these articles on Creole cookery as 
simple studies of 

OTHER people's WAYS, 

without any intention of ridiculing them, there 
may be nothing amiss in my giving one of my 
sources of authority for some of these glutinous 
statements. He was a Creole-French captain of 
a steamboat in the Bayou Lafourche trade, an 
epicure among the Creoles, a fractious man, and 
one, it was said, to be impossible to suit with a 
cook. The boys who owned the earth down 
there let me have that boat because I was a 
stranger ; and they watched, expecting to see that 
choleric captain chase me over the gang-plank to 
the shore just before the boat pulled out, but 
nothing of the sort occurred. I got along well ; 
cooked for him and his few French passengers 
during the whole five months of the sugar season, 
and he paid me well. It was a simple operation; 
he only wanted to show a cook how it should be 
done, and then have it done his way, and I let 
him. Twice a day, among other things, he had a 
saucepan of green okra simmered down in olive 
oil to that condition that when he took a pod on 
his fork the gum that roped from it like the fila- 
ments of thick molasses had to be wound around 
it with his knife before he could get it clear into 
his mouth; and he tried the quality of all the 
gumbo soups by the same sort of long measure. 



CHICKEN GUMBO SOUP. 

Cut two chickens raw into joints and chop 
these smaller, making about twenty pieces of each 
xowi. Put some buiter ^ oil in a broad saucepan, 
a large onion minced small, & couple of slices of 
ham cut small and then the chicken, pu^ on the 
lid and then set over the fire to braise in its or'n 
steam. Watch that it does not burn, but let ths 
pieces aquire a light brown color with frequent 
shaking about. Then put in either a cupful of 
gumbo file or five or six times as much green 
okra sliced thin and fill up with four quarts ot 
soup stock or broth. Tie up a sc«al{ bwnct o£ 



soup herbs, consisting of parsley, green marjoram^ 
bay leaves, leek and celery, and let them boil in 
the soup. Simmer at the side of the range an 
hour or two, 6kim off the fat that rises, season witiv 
salt and pepper and take out the faggot of herbs. 
It makes a dull greenish soup. Although there 
is no particular rule about the quantity of gumbo- 
to use, it is expected there will be enough to make 
the soup thick without the use of flour. 

Boil some rice in plenty of water, wash it in 
cold water when done and pour it into a sieve to 
drain. Serve a good spoonful of the loose rice- 
grains in each plate of soup as it is sent in. 



TOMATO GUMBO. 

It is best made with g^reen okra. Commence 
the same way as in making Spanish sauce, by 
frying together some oil, ham, onions, garlic, car- 
rots and turnips. Add soup stock and boil, %vith 
a foggot of soup herbs in it about an hour. Strain 
into another saucepan, add equal quantities of to- 
matoes and green okra and simmer until the okra 
is nearly all dissolved, it may be two hours. Skim, 
season, serve with rice. The tomatoes should not 
be strained into this soup, but cut into pieces. 
The soup should be thick enough with okra with- 
out the use of flour. 



CRAB GUMBO. 

Chop some crabs, already cooked, into large 
pieces, the body making four or six and each 
large claw two pieces ; crack the shells with the 
back of a knife. Make the same way as chicken 
gumbo, using the pieces cf crab in place of chicken, 
or, make a strong vegetable soup thick with 
gumbo file and boil the pieces of crab in it 
Serve with rice in the plates. 

A dan tier sort of crab gumbo could be and 
doubtless is in some places made with the crab- 
meat picked from the shells. The above method 
of chopping in. pieces and serving the shells and 
all in the plates is the only way it ever appears at 

public tables. 

«- ■■ ■ 

Shrimps and Oysters. 

Of the following ways of serving the shrimp, 
it may be said that the broil and the brochette 
(skewer) are acceptable to nearly all people at any 
meal though best for breakfast. The others are 
more easily disposed of for lunch than for dinner. 
And it should not be forgotten that shrimp are 
good enough served plain with the common cruet 
seasonings. 

SHRIMP GUMBO. 

Wash a gallon of shrimps in plenty of water to 
free them from sand and boil them in six quarts- 
o£ wflL^^r, with » oiece of bacon, two leeks and twa 



THE AMERICAN COOK. 



38& 



bajrleaves. Take off the scum that rises. In an- 
other saucepan fry a minced onion and two or 
three cloves of garlic in oil, put in a quart of to- 
matoes, only cut in pieces, and a cupful of gumbo 
file (which is powder of dried okra) and then add 
the shrimp liquor through a fine strainer. Let 
boil together. Cool the shrimps, shell them, cut 
in pieces and throw them into the soup. Salt and 
red pepper to taste. All Creole soups are thick 
and nearly all eaten with rice. Have some cooked 
rice ready and serve a spoonful in each plate of 
gumbo as dished up. 



LYONAISB OF SHRIMP, A LA CREOLB. 

Take about equal quantities of onions cut small, 
tomatoes, and shrimp cooked and hulled. Fry 
the onions, put in the tomatoes and let cook to- 
gether ; add the shrimp and stir up with a few 
spoonfuls of espagnole sauce and salt and pepper. 
It is a thick mixture ; serve it heaped in a flat dish 
with ornamental strips of toast 



SHRIMP SALAD. 

Cut up the shrimps and prepare about an equal 
measure of minced white lettuce, endive or celery, 
according to the season. Put them into a bowl 
together. Add a small amount of onion finely 
minced and about four times a& much parsley. 
Put in then a good spoonful of pepper relish or 
hot sauce, which is the same as minced piccalilly 
or minced pickled peppers, etc. Then olive oil 
enough to moisten the salad and a like amount of 
vinegar and stir together till well mixed. 



SHRIMP WITH RISOTTO. 

'/his is a good example of a Creole dish, and of 
Creole frugality in their domestic cooking ; it is 
shrimp and rice, the shrimp cooked first and taken 
up, and the rice cooked in and flavored by the 
same water. 

Wash a quart or more of fresh, uncooked 
shrimp in plenty of water to free them from sand ; 
then drop them into boiling water, enough to 
cover; put in two bay leaves, a spoonful salt, and 
same of minced onion, and a piece of red pepper- 
pod, and boil about half an hour ; then strain the 
water into another saucepan, and to a quart of it 
allow a heaping cup of rice, and cook with a lid 
on till done. The shrimps, which are nearly 
white and transparent while raw, turn light red 
in cooking, and they give color enough to the 
rice without other addition; but to serve at a 
Creole table it will be necessary to add saffron 
infusion enough to make it yellow. Shape the 
rice by pressing into cups, and turn out a shape 
into a dish. Remove the shells from the shrimps ; 
moisten with a spoonful of the liquor, reserved I 



for the purpose ; serve them placed around the 
shape of rice. Risotto is an Italian word. Curry 
powder can be used in place of saffron. 



SHRIMP A LA BORUELAISE. 

Boil the shrimps in water with seasonings, as 
above stated, when done strain off the liquor and 
boil it down ; to half a cupful of it add a cupful 
of espagnole sauce, and half as much claret and a 
pinch of cayenne ; put in the picked shrimps and 
stew together. Serve with croutons of bread 
fried in oil. 



SHRIMP SUR LE GRILL. 

Broiled shrimp. Take the largest already cooked 
and divested of their shells; dredge with salt and 
black pepper; put them in the wire oyster broiler; 
brush both sides with oil ; broil quickly, and serve 
on toast with quartered lemon. 



SHRIMP A LA BROCHETTE. 

String the shrimps already cooked and hulled, 
on iron skewers, and cut straight down to make 
them of even size; dip in beaten egg on a plate, 
and then in cracker dust, and fry in hot oil. Serve 
on thin toast, witlidrawing the skewer as they are 
served. 



OYSTERS A LA BROCHETTE. 

Run a dozen or more of oysters on a skewer^ 
drop them into the frying kettle of hot oil or lard 
for three or four minutes to shrink them, then 
finish by broiling on the gridrion over hot coals* 

Serve on buttered toast, withdrawing the 
skewer, and garnish with lemon and parsley. 



OYSTER SOUP A LA CREOLE. 

or, a«flf pnes herbesy or New Orleans style. For 
a hundred persons: 2 gallons of oysters and 
their liquor, 2 gallons of milk, 2 cans of mush- 
rooms, I onion, a handful of parsley, and half a 
pound of butter. 

Set the oysters over the fire to scald but not 
boil, when shrunken pour into a colander to drain^ 
and set the liquor on again to boil. Boil the milk 
separately. Mince onion, parsley and mushrooms 
fine and throw them in a large saucepan with the 
butter, add the oyster liquor through a fine 
strainer, then the milk, and thicken till like cream 
with flour mixed with milk. Season with salt 
and pepper and put in the oysters at last. 



CRAYFISH. 



The most vicious looking halfbushel that can 
be found in a Southern market is the basket of 



L 



S86 



THB AMBBICAN OOOK. 



salt water crayfish, which has a place at many of 
the turtle stalls or frog butchers places of business; 
they are evidently a not very plentiful commodity, 
for the proportion in sight compared with such 
other things as crabs and shrimp, is very small, 
and yet is equal to the demand, as the price asked 
for them proves. They look as little like anything 
good to eat as possible, more like noisome insects 
to be avoided. They are in color a mixture of 
bloodred and black, shaped like a lobster, though 
no larger than a Southern shrimp, but they refuse 
to double themselves up as the lobster and shrimp 
do, but spread out both claws and tail in an atti- 
tude of eternal obstreperousness. That is why 
the dealers always handle them either with tongs 
or claw-hammers. Perhaps they look better to 
some people, but the truth is the crayfish is some- 
thing of a thorn in the side of American cookery, 
and has caused many of us who are interested in 
it too much annoyance to allow any care for its 
merits. The Creoles use them, and by some they 
are thought to be peculiar to Creole cookery, 
-which, however, is not the case; the custom in 
this regard being but a continuance of French 
customs, for of all the ornamental dishes of fish 
described in French culinary works, one-half at 
least would require of us to produce them accord- 
ing to rule, to use crayfish in one form or another; 
crayfish tails and button mushrooms; crayfish 
tails, and oysters; crayfish shells pounded in a 
mortar and mixed in a sauce ; crayfish pounded 
and worked into butter to make crayfish butter; a 
fine crayfish on a skewer; a ragout of crayfish 
and mussels — these and forty other cries of cray- 
fish, crayfish, where there are no crayfish, and 
where nobody could be bribed or coaxed into eat- 
ing a crayfish if there were cause enough for us to 
take the ground that crayfish are. not much ac- 
count anyhow. 



of cooking a chicken will answer as well for the 
monstrous frogs ; the Creole preference is probably 
for the stew with tomatoes. 



AT THE FROG BUTCHERS. 

P'rogs' hind legs, and small one-ounce frogs at 
that, may please the Canadians well enough, but 
at the Creole markets one may see frogs as large 
as sqirrels, skinned and hung up in pairs by the 
fore feet, while at the same time live frogs of the 
same lot are on the same stalls in cages, of such 
huge proportions that I think a guess of their live 
weight at two pounds each is likelier to be below 
the true weight of some of them than above it. 
The market price of a pair of such frogs skinned, 
white, broad backed and entire except the heads, 
is from fifty csnts on a cool morning down to 
thirtv cents at the close of market hours on a 
warm day. As there would be no supply if there 
>vas no demand, it is a certainty that these are 
sought after by some people. As to the methods 
of cooking, it is sufficient to know that any way 



SNAILS. 



A few snails are offered, with tickets announc- 
ing that they are newly imported from France. 
The snailshells are closed with glue by the snail 
itbelf at a certain time of the year and the whole 
lot looks as dry as a box of nuts. Snails are used 
to make a broth that is supposed to be beneficial 
in cases of consumption. 



CREOLE SWEET TOMATOES. 

All over the South stewed tomatoes, instead of 
being seasoned with salt and pepper, are made 
sweet with sugar, and when boiled down to what 
is in effect a tomato preserve, it is called Creole 
Sauce. Sweetened tomatoes and sweetened sweet 
potatoes are Southern specialties, whether of 
Creole origin or not, which Northerners first 
endure, then admire, then embrace. 



CREOLE BREAD AND PASTRY. 

There is very little in this line that is peculiar, 
the Creole shops and showcases being stocked 
with the same French and Italian bread and 
cakes that may be found in any other part of the 
country. They call almost any kind of bun or 
roll a brioche^ according to common French usage, 
and have a very popular "wine cake," which is a 
bright, yeast-raised sweet roll baked in a patty 
pan and dipped while hot into a syrup of sug^r 
and wine, which partially drives upon the cake. 
This and the cream pie or Hourte do frangifan^'* 
of every Creole bakery those who have ever 
studied the subjeet may find pleasure in recogniz- 
ing as the unchanged descendants of the line that 
received the royal sanction of Louis XIV and 
Lous X V ; of Compiegne, Trinanan and Versailes. 



There is one kind of banana so handsome 
that it is not even good to eat raw — that is to say 
it is not so good as the fat looking, yellow sort. 
But it has a purple flush that talks to you about 
the tropics and it acts as a snare to draw your 
dime and then goes back on you in the matter of 
flavor. It is too much to expect of the banana 
that it should be red as a rose, perfumed and sweet 
and good to eat all at once, and when you have 
tried all you settle down with the knowledge 
that the variety known as Havana lady-fingers 
are the best flavored. They are only of the com- 
mon pale, yellow color, and are small, as the 
name implies, but are all the better for the hotel 
table on that account, as it does not tire the guests 
so much to carry them to their rooms after din* 



THE AMERICAN COOK. 



387 



ner as some of the ponderous varieties would do. 
The flavor of the banana is very much dependent 
upon the way it is ripened by the seller, for the 
bunches are always gathered and shipped in a 
green. state, and while the foolish dealers, in cold 
weather keep them cold till they turn black and 
spoil without ripening at all, the wise ones hang 
them in a dark room built like an ice-chest, with 
double walls, and keep up such a degree of heat 
as bananas are used to down in the land where 
the monkeys chatter, and they swell and ripen, 
turn to a rich and shining yellow^ and become 
all odoriferousness and sact:harosity, and sell at 
five cents apiece in a few days. 



The Florida Tnrtle. 

The Florida turtle knows where the frost line 
is, it is on a level with the surface of the deep 
blue sea, and he lives below it during the short 
period of midwinter, but at this dawning of the 
early Florida spring he may be seen on every 
side, even on the market stalls divested of his 
head, of half his shell, of all his skin and still alive 
or at any rate moving and therefore not dead, a 
striking instance of the healthfulness of the Flor- 
ida climate. To dress a turtle the cooks always 
first cut off the head and then immerse the turtle 
in boiling water preparatory to removing shell 
and skin ; the dealers, however, in the places where 
turtles abound, operate entirely with a knife, cut 
the meat out of the shell and display and sell it 
by the pound like any other meat. This method 
does not destroy the muscular motion for hours 
after the turtle is killed, but the scalding process 
is instant death, therefore, we shall not change 
our method, although the turtle meat on the 
stalls does look as clean as lean pork and the 
turtle eggs are piled high around it. 

The turtle is one of the elements of every 
Imaginary picture of Florida; coming in out of 
the wet to bask on a coral key in the semi-tropical 
sunshine, he is almost as much a representative 
sign for the Southern land*s end as the white bear 
is of the arctic region, he is the link in the chain 
of connection with the West Indies, with South 
America and with semi-tropical Australia, all of 
which are made dear to the imaginations of 
European and particularly of English gourmands 
by their production of this most esteemed of table 
luxuries. Visitors to Florida ought to make a 
good aquaintance with the turtle on his native 
sands and again at the cheerful table and try to 
realize why such huge sums have been spent in 
procuring it for every civic feast that has taken 
place over there, thousands of miles from its 
native coral beds for hundreds of years past, for 
••things are not what they seem" to the eye but 



rise in importance according to mental associa- 
tions. 

The turtle loses its great recommendation to 
the rich, and exclusive of extreme dearness in 
this country, for the price is low enough to put 
this kind of meat within the means of a vast 
number — more than know how to use it, or than 
even know the name and nature of turtle. A 
clipping of light reading went the rounds recently, 
referring to the price of turtle, that read crudely 
enough to have come from England, where turtle 
is really dear unless they use "sun-dried turtle 
from Australia," as their papers advertise it, which 
bears a low price. This New York clipping re- 
ferred to turtle soup being charged for at some 
restaurants only ten cents a plate higher than 
mock turtle, and thought it evidence of fraud that 
turtle soup was offered so cheap. The common 
fact is, that the best brand of canned turtle, of 
first quality of meat, sold in the cans, with 
piope-ly assorted meat in each can — for there are 
severa. kinds of meat in a turtle — a;id a fair pro- 
portion of the famous green fat in each, can be 
bought by the case at twenty-five cents per two- 
pound can, about fifteen cents per pound for meat 
ready dressed, and without bone or waste. If 4i 
pound would only make a quart of soup, the **only 
ten cents more" would be good pay for tlie differ- 
ence. But turtle is only one ingredient out of several 
in turtle soup, and when the mock turtle is made, 
which has everything else except the turtle in it, 
a can of turtle cut in pieces, for about three 
quarts will be found to make it as rich as the 
most critical London alderman could desire, and 
with meat enough and green fat for every plate. 

Probably there has never been a recipe given 
for making turtle soup that did not call for 
wine to be added at the finish, and that one re- 
quirement has prevented turtle from coming into 
frequent use, for it is not only that very few 
people like the wine flavor in meat or fish, at first, 
but wine is associated with ideas of expense, with 
the thought of a dollar bottle of wine being re- 
quired to make a twenty -five cent bowl of soup, 
and while this impression prevails some other 
viands will continue to be chosen and the turtle 
sells slower than any other goods on the mer- 
chant's shelves. The idea is erroneous, however, 
the addition of wine is optional, like any other 
flavoring. Tlie London aldermen may empty 
into the tureen of turtle soup a bottle or two of 
the oldest and best Maderia obtainable, but that 
does not prove that the soup is not good enough 
without it. The addition that is better than wine 
and more to the popular taste, is strained tomatoes. 
With tomatoes wine is not needed and as that gets 
to be commonly understood, turtle as food will be- 
come more popular and the demand upon the 



THB AMFTKifCAN OOOK. 



packers will increase. The English markets are 
rcgularljr supplied with live turtles from the West 
Indies, only large sizes being considered worth 
canying to such a distance. There are other ways 
of cooking turtle besides in soup, and at the great 
banquets a nun jer of dishes are made of the dif- 
ferent parts, one of them being turtle dressed in 
cream sauce like our terrapin^ Maryland style; 
another way is a brown f ricasee like terrain a la 
Prascati; the liver and heart are stewed in wine, 
and the fins make a separate dish, while, for an 
effort at the ornamental, the custom is to serve 
either soup or stew in the deep shell of the turtle, 
the rim being bordered with paste baked on it and 
decorated. 

It is not every variety of turtle that has a shell 
adapted for that purpose, for of the dozen or more 
different kinds that are sold in the markets, some 
have shells as round and shallow as an umbrella, 
and others carry a covering as steep and angular 
as a mansard roof. 



TURTLE SOUP A LA CREOLE. 

Make Spanish sauce as already directed with 
considerable tomatoes in it. Take as much soup 
stock as you have sauce and mix them together, 
add salt and pepper to taste and add some thicken- 
ing when it boils. Then into every gallon put a 
can|or more of cut turtle, half a lemon cut small, 
one quarter cup of sherry. Egg balls can be made 
by pounding hard boiled yolks of eggs with a little 
butter and flour to make a yellow paste that can 
be rolled into bales and boiled in water and then 
dipped into the soup. The turtle that is bought 
alive generally furnishes turtle eggs enough with- 
out resorting to the imitation. 



^»^ 



THE STAR BOARDER. 



A Hotel Chers Yarn. 



BY JESSUP WHITEHEAD. 

•♦The toughest customer I ever had to serve a 
steak to, was a star boarder we had down at 
Hallelujah Falls, in Tennessee,'* said a friend of 
mine, a hotel chef, as we sat at a table in a Chicago 
wine cellar. 

"Could'nt be suited any way you could fix him, 
eh?" 

"No, it was'nt just that, but he would*nt take a 
steak at all and I made up my mind he should, 
and I played him on it all summer; but he was a 
mighty fine man you must remember. I would'nt 
monkey with many men that way." 

**But what for?" I asked him, "why should you 
want to make him eat bee&teaks against his 
liking?" 



" See here " returned the chef, his eyes glisten- 
ing with merriment, "when you've got a blood as 
tony as they make 'em, one that you know loves 
good living, and when he as good as tells you that 
he loves a good beefsteak better than anything 
else, and then tells you straight up and down that 
he is not going to eat any beefsteak whatever that 
you can send him, aint you going to do your level 
best to make him ? " 

"Why of course, that is if I can without offend- 
ing him, but I don't understand.*' 

" He was a mighty fine man mind you. I met 
him down at the falls the second day aft^r he 
came there ; we were both out looking around 
there to sort of get the points about the country, 
I reckon, aud I told him straight off that I was 
the chef for this season and was going to do the 
best I could for him and 1 hoped he was going to 
stay awhile." 

" *Well,' " says he *I think you do very well in- 
deed here ; it's as good as I want' says he, *and you 
need not take any extra trouble for me/ He was 
a mighty fine man you could tell by his talk ; he 
was a big Washington lawyer and a judge and he 
had a whole mint of trustee business or something 
else all over the South besides, and I answered 
him we could do about as well as any other house 
he could think of, all except the beef, and I did 
feel a little doubtful about getting good short loins 
in that forgotten country. 

"*I know this country well,' said the judge, 
*and you will not get any good beef, at least not 
often, but when you do get hold of a sten^ a little 
better than usual, I wish you would send it to the 
two ladies sitting at my table, for they seem to be 
invalids and have very little appetite.' 

"And not to you too?" I said. 

"'Its no use,' said he, *I never take a beefsteak 
after I leave Washington City.' 

"Never?" 

"*Never. I live in hotels all the time; my 
business takes me tq all parts of the South, to 
stay in some places for weeks, but I make it a rule 
to never take a beefsteak outside of Washington. 

"'What's the reason for that?' said I. 

" 'Because there are no beefsteaks fit to eat in 
the South,' said he. 

"But suppose you are in a place where they 
should be good ? 

"Said he, 'It is impossible, it's no use, you might 
cook them well, but you have not the beef. I 
know this country like my own home — there i& 
no beef fit to eat — the hotel people don't know 
how to cut i^ — they don't know one part from an- 
other — they don't know any civilized way to cook 
and serve it. But I find abundance of other things 
to eat,* the judge went on, laughing. 'We won't 
trouble about the beefsteak.' And you bet he did 



THE AMERICAN COOK. 



38& 



find plenty other things to eat. I didn^t feel very 
good about what he said, but then nobody could 
have made me believe he was in earnest." 

**That afternoon the farmer that was going to 
supply us with beef, brought in the first animal — 
the whole carcass, mind you, and it was a terror 
sure enough, weighed just 135 pounds. 

"What do you call that thing?" says I, «*a 
Southern calf?" 

** ♦That,' says he, *is a good young steer.' " 

"Well, sir, I talked to that man till he was 
ashamed, and like to have cried, and he said the 
next one should be a good one, way up. We had 
a piece of half-civilized beef on ' hand that they 
had brought over in the buggy, and I broiled a 
steak off that for the star boarder's supper, and 
sent it in, and, sure enough, he never touched it. 
I didn't feel very good over that, but it appeared 
he never ate any hot meat for supper anyhow ; 
but he ate fish, cold ham, eggs, rolls, muffins, 
waffles, strawberries and sweet cakes, and drank 
tea and milk, and I thought he could easily be 
made to take a steak in the morning." 

"We had three ways of cooking steaks in that 
house and kept them all going on at once ; the 
regular broil over hot coals; the Texas grill — that's 
slap a steak down flat on the top of the hot range, 
you know, and let it sizzle and smoke — and the 
other way was fry in a pan with gravy. I heard 
that some of them said they could eat steak all 
day when it was fried in a pan with gravy ; and 
some of them liked the Texas grill ; but the star 
boarder, I was sure, would not look at a steak any 
way but city broiled, over a bed of clear coals, 
and I took out the l^st loin cut that was left, 
cooked it 'right and seasoned, but only plain, be- 
cause I wasn't' thinking much about the star 
boarder just yet, and sent it in hot for his break- 
fast. But it's a fact, that man never even looked 
at it, but there it set; and he ate raspberries, mut- 
ton chops, ham, eggs, bacon, liver, fish, corn 
bread, rolls, and batter cakes, and drank coffee and 
milk. I didn't feel very good over that and got 
to studying about the star boarder all day, but I 
couldn't lay for him till some better beef came in." 

"The next mountain runt that the rascally far- 
mer brought in weighed only 175 pounds, the 
whole carcass. Why, you know a good young 
steer, a three-year old, will dress out 400 pounds, 
100 pounds a quarter, 50 pounds a loin, and here 
was one less than half that weight I let on like 
wanting to lick the farmer for bringing such moun- 
tain climbers as those to me, and he promised to 
bring a splendid animal next time, the finest in 
the whole heard.'* 

"A tenderloin of this beef was not much larger 
than a hog's, but I cut long and set the piece on 
«nd and flattened to a very fidr likeness of a good 



fliet steak, broiled it and surrounded it with pota- 
toes cut Francaise and fried, garnished it, and 
thought the star boarder would take a tumble to- 
it when it was set before him. He took just sa 
much notice of it that he sent out for a separate 
dish of that kind of potatoes and would not take 
them off the steak, but he ate early peaches, 
broiled mackerel, lamb chops, fried salt pork, an 
omelet, corn muffins, buttered toast, rice cakes 
and drank chocolate and milk. Well, I didn't 
feel very good over that, but I had formed a reso- 
lution, too, by this time, and was bound to make 
him break his pledge before I got through with 
him ; only it would not do to send a thing he did 
not order, very often, only like an accidental diop» 
as if the waiter had made the mistake But he 
liked tomato sauce and I tried him with another 
filet a la sauce tomate. He didn't bite at that bait 
either, but ate tripe with tomato sauce and sliced 
tomatoes, broiled chicken, ham and eggs, and all 
the etceteras as usual. He was a tough one, but 
I had not tried much yet." 

"Well, when that candidate for the poorhouse 
brought in the fine, fat steer, as he called it, that 
he had been blowing about, what do you gv\ess it 
weighed? It weighed just 200, the whole carcass,, 
and he thought it was immense. If anybody had 
driven a thousand-pound ox into that country, the 
people would all have thought it a circus and 
quit work to go and see it And it was not only 
the small size of their cattle, but grass was scarca- 
and the critters had to eat weeds that made the 
beef taste bitter. However, I hung it to season 
and did the best I could with it, and then took 
another whack at the star boarder. I cut him a 
porterhouse steak this time, the best that could be 
got out of that beef, close to the hip bone where 
the tenderloin part of it was big, the kind of steak 
with a bone in it that our restaurant bloods call 
for, and it took a dish big enough to make the 
judge take notice of it. I didn't care if he did 
take it as a compliment if I could only have it to 
say I made him break his New Year's resolutions, 
about not eating a beefsteak outside of Washing- 
ton. I sent it to him a la Colbert; rubbed the 
dish with garlic, had some largest sized potato* 
balls, scooped out and boiled, and then light fried^ 
broiled the steak right and laid it in, put the pota* 
toes around, had some steak gravy and butter 
mixed and poured under, and let it go. Well sir, 
that shook him up, and one minute I thought 1 
had him, he ate all the potatoes out of the dish 
and fooled with the gravy hut when he left the 
table there was the steak yet, as whole as it wa& 
when I sent it in, and he went away laughing. I 
didn't feel very good over that, only^ every man 
has got a weak spot to hit if you can find where it 
is, and the next morning I would try another way. 



300 



THB AMBBICAN OOOK. 



Fried it a la Chaieaubriand; cut three filet steaks, 
broiled 'em, took a lemon squeezer and squeezed 
the juice of two of them on to the one in the dish, 
little butter under, bordered it fine with thin toast 
cut fancy, gave it a lemon g^amish and fired that 
at him.'' 

"Well, what did he do?" 

«*Do!* Why, he just reached out his hand and 
drew that steak towards him and looked at it as if 
he didn't know what to do next, then he called 
the waiter and told him to take that steak over to 
the sick ladies with his compliments, and away it 
went; and he ate everything else that was on the 
bill of fare, and went away laughing. I didn't 
feel very good over that, either." 

"What meat doth this our Csesar feed on in 
Washington, anyhow, says I ; does he get Chicago 
tenderloins, or New York short loins, or Kentucky 
bluegrass quarters? You can see he knew this 
country beef so well, with no niore than a shadow 
of fat about it, that he wasn't going to touch it, 
and I could not get any by express in that place; 
but there was a sort of half- civilized butcher over 
at the little town, though he couldn't cut up beef 
worth a cent, and I started ofE to chin him a little, 
to see what he could do, and, as luck would have 
it, he had two quarters left of a smart youg cow 
of a neighbor's. They had killed her for jumping 
over the fences and stealing green corn, so you 
know she was fat, and I took those two quarters 
in. With that beef I laid for my gentleman 
again. He couldn't go back on that; it had the 
right color, and when I took out the filet and cut 
It up, the steaks had as pretty a border of fat on 
tfiem as ever you see, and I shoved it at him nexc 
morning a la maitre d* hotel; that is, boiled some 
small new potatoes and drained 'em off, and cut 
'em in two with a knife point in the saucepan as 
they lay ; stirred up some soft butter with chop{>ed 
parsley and lemon juice and had them ready. 
Then I got my steak ready and broiled it, and it 
was a beauty, I tell you. I began to feel like a 
man again, and not so much like a snide as I did 
handling that runty mountain poison. I dished 
it up hot, and put the potatoes around it right, and 
spread the maitre d* hotel butter on top. touched it 
off with the last parsley there was in that house's 
garden, and a quartered lemon, and got that down 
before him. Well, do you think that star boarder 
from Washington didn't know good beef the 
minute he saw it? Of course, he did. But do 
you think he ate it? No, sir; he did not. But it 
made iis resolution mighty sick, however. He 
wanted to eat that steak worse than anything I 
ever saw, but he was too starchy ; he ate all the 
potatoes, and just took and drained all the sauce 
and gravy out of the dish all over them in his 
plate, and then pushed the steak away like it was 



no good, and he turned to and ate fried chicken, 
broiled ham, shirred eggs, sally lunn, Graham 
toast and grapes, and drank coffee and milk. 
That's were the trouble was, after all. There waR 
too much to eat What does a man want of a 
little black, stringly steak, anyhow, when there is 
everything else you can name all ready for hina 
to eat instead? says I, and I got ready to cut oft . 
his grub for the next try, for I was dead in eamesi 
that he had to knock under, now that we had tbo 
beef." 

"We had a mighty pretty little white girl for a 
pantry girl in that house. Say — did you eve:; 
take notice what a difference it makes about 
boarders not kicking on the steaks when you have 
girls to wait on 'em ? It does. If you have the 
right sort of girl when some young fellow that 
don't feel very good that morning says, 'here, take 
this steak away and get me a better one, it's 
tough, I can't eat that,' that girl don't want the 
trouble of going to the kitchen again and she just 
takes up the dish and looks at it, and then looks 
at him, and says she, 'ain't you just a little bit 
cross this morning?' and she slides the steak in 
front of him again, and nine times out of ten he 
takes the steak and eats it without another word. 
We had black boys waiting on the table but they 
were no waiters. Some of them would unload a 
tray of dishes before a man just like shoveling 
com to a horse and another would swing every 
dish back and forth like a pigeon trying to alight 
and make a man bob his head forty ways for fear 
of getting hit before it got down to the table — do 
you ever read anything?" 

"Yes, sometimes " 

"That's what put me on to it Out in these 
country places you have to read ; there's nowhere 
to go and I had picked up a Cooper novel, the 
"Midshipman" where it remarked that a cup of 
coffee posseses a finer aroma when served by a 
feminine hand and it's so ; it's like old Saint An- 
thony sitting and reading his good book, you 
know, and all the demons came buzzing him and 
chinning him and couldn't make him raise his 
eyes, but the minute a woman came waltzing in 
he raised square up to get a good look at her. 
And now if I let the chicken dropoff the bill, and 
cut the mutton chops off the neck and gave 'em a 
Texas grill so the judge couldn't eat them, and 
cut the ham with no fat on it, then if I fixed him 
up a fine porter house steak worth a dollar and a 
half and had a sweet-home kind of a g^irl to wait 
on him with lace around her wrists, my high- 
toner from Washington would have to eat his 
steak, there was no way for him to get out of it 
— ain't that the way it looks to you?" 

"Yes." 

"I told you he was a tough customer, but he 



THE AMERICAN COOK. 



391 



was a mighty fine man, too, and that's the way I 
got things fixed. It was no trouble when all the 
tables were wanting more waiters, to get the girl 
to wait on the star boarder, and she had been 
used to waiting in some eastern hotel before, and 
I went to work and got out the finest kind of a 
piece of meat with half an inch of fat all around 
It and got it ready to serve a la Parisienne and 
had the dish hot, and waited. The judge had al- 
ways been punctual to a certain minute by the 
clock before this, but this time he was a little late 
— in fact he was very late, and I was afraid the 
girl would fly the track and something would be 
spoiled and at last I went to see why he didn't 
come in to breakfast and behold! he had left — his 
time that he came to stay was out and he went 
away on the early coach — he was gone.'* 



Two Thousand Five Hundred 

Guests. 



"Talk about pleasure resort business," said he, 
**ril tell you where I got all I wanted to do, and 
that was where we had twenty-five hundred 
guests to feed for weeks at a time, and we attended 
to them just as well, and treated them in just as 
good style, as they do where there's only a 
hundred or two." 

"Where was that?" 

"Up here at the Springs, in Virginia." 

"And you were the head cook?" 

"I was, and had what you might call seven 
other head cooks under me, and let me tell you 
what I've done. I've fed eighteen hundred people 
in three-quarters of an hour, and done it meal 
after meal, and that's what very few men can say, 
but you can just bet if ever any man was glad 
when a season was over, it was me ; it like to have 
killed me." 

"But you got good pay there .^" 

"I had two hundred a month; yes, that was 
good, but it was worth every cent of it. Why, 
we would sometimes have as many as five hund- 
red arrivals after eight o'clock at nighty and they 
all had to get supper, you know." 

"You won't have such a rush at your Florida 
job if you get it," I said, for he had in his hand 
a polite reply he had just received from a great 
hotel-keeper, telling him to send on a description 
of himself, and he laughed as he pulled at his 
gray moustache and answered: 

"I guess about five or six hundred will be crowd 
enough for me now. I'm about eighteen years 
older than I was then ; but didn't we see times, 
though, in '68 and '69.?'" 

"What sort of a range did you work on ? Was 
it set in brick, or did you use the old-fashioned 
sheet-iron ranges, and several of them?" 



**No, it wasn't that kind at all, but one solid 
ptate of iron the whole length of the kitchen, 
with fire holes under where we could put in nine- 
foot wood. It was marked o£f into seven ranges^ 
as we called them, and I would take a man and 
say, *Here, you take this range and take this man 
for your second, and this for your boiler, and 
these two women, and you run your range and 
let them run theirs.' We had to use negroes in 
that country, of course, with white bosses over 
all. Then I would take another head cook and 
give him his range and his help, and so on for all 
seven ranges. This kitchen took up about all the 
length of the building. There was a store-room 
at one end and the office at the other, and the 
kitchen filled up all the way between ; and there 
was the dining-room adjoining, of course; it was 
four hundred feet long and could seat twelve 
hundred people at once. Well, it had the tables 
divided into seven departments, same as the 
kitchen range, and there were seven head waiters, 
each with his own crew of boys, and they had to 
get their orders filled at their own range and could 
not go to any other, so it was like seven different 
kitchens and seven dining-rooms, but all rimning 
at once, and no confusion. Right there in that 
building they could only acommodate about five 
hundred with rooms, but the grounds were laid 
off like streets; each cottage had four rooms; 
there were ten rows of cottages and forty in each 
row, and a black steward and a set of boys for 
each row, and a white steward to look after them, 
and all those cottage people came to eat in the 
big dining-room. I had two butchers always at 
work, killed thirty-three sheep a day, and chickens 
— well, we gave them all chicken for breakfast 
and supper — twenty-five hundred people at a time 
— and you can judge what it took." 

"But I don't see where you roasted your meat 
with that kind of a range." 

"We had rotary roasters, seven of them." 

"Rotary ovens .^" 

"No, meat roasters ; a sort of cupola with a red- 
hot stove inside; hung the meat on hooks and the 
roaster worked a crank and kept the joints in 
motion round this red-hot fire, and once in a 
while he opened a door and basted the meat with 
a big ladle out of the dripping pan that was in- 
side." 

"Oh, yes, I saw such a roaster in the kitchen of 
the Sherman House, Chicago, a couple of years 
ago, but it was not in use. Are they using the 
same outfit at the Springs now?" 

"No, they're all done away with; why in that 
time when they got down to only a thousand 
gue-ts, they began to talk about 'nobody in the 
house,' and went to cutting down help like they 
mischief, and cut off one range and one section of 



^92 



THE AMERICAN COOK. 



<dining-room, and so on till at last just one range 
and one cook would be left to finish the season.*' 

**I saw a few, little, one- inch advertisements of 
that place last summer ; three or four, perhaps, in 
as many papers, but should never have imagined 
it was a place of such importance as jou describe." 

"Oh, well, it is different now ; it has got into 
other hands, and times have changed with it, and 
I suppose they are doing very well to get six or 
-eight hundred at once, now." 

"Well, John Henry, I think if that Florida 
hotel -keeper ever sees your goodlooking Southern 
countenance, and hears you talk, he will be glad 
to find you disengaged and ready to be taken in. 

<5oodbye." 

^ 

Local Specialties. 

There are certain signs and indications to be 
noted w^hen looking abroad from a hotel window, 
and particularly if the express office be next door, 
which go to show that the hotels do not do all 
the dinner making and party giving that takes 
place in any town or city, and it will not do to be 
too sure that they monopolize all the knowledge 
of affairs of the table and of culinary operations. 
There are packages arriving of wreaths and flow- 
ers from distant city florists, and baskets and sealed 
cans from distant citv caterers and restaurateurs 
with famous names, there are messengers with 
covered trays, there are shipments of china and 
glass and silver and all such things as make proof 
conclusive that every day or two, during the 
party season, somebody is going to have a fine 
table and a fine spread, and a good many other 
somebodies are going to dress grandly and go and 
sit around it, and they are not under obligations 
to any hotels or hotelists either, they seem to 
know how, all by themselves. They know how 
to have thirteen course dinners, but there are no 
indications that they make use of a printed menu. 
It must be quite amateurish dinner giving that is 
going on like amateur theatricals, and probably 
l)oth ladies and gentlemen enjoy it immensely in 
«pite of all the toil and trouble. So it is quite 
reasonable to infer that of all the winter tourists 
now to be seen upon the piazzas of the many 
Florida hotels the great majority have already 
this winter been similarly interested, have all out- 
shone somebody else, and left a pattern for less 
skillful ones to vainly try and come up to before 
they started on their winter tours. 

Now these things ought to be recorded. Money 
is spent lavishly in these social contests and nights 
and days are given up to thinking and toiling, and 
still the fame of anything particularly brilliant, or 
of a new device or a happy thought, or a newly 
acquired secret of a new dish cannot much more 
than reach across the street for the want of a 



society journal devoted to the cultivation of such 
social arts and to reports of every eminent exploit 
in entertainment, such a journal as would give the 
beaten ones at home points and teach them from 
other experts' example, how to beat these tourists 
at their own game when they go back. 

Somebody certainly ought to stai^t a paper 
devoted to party giving and culinary topics. It 
would seem as if New York should be the place 
of publication, but any other large city would 
answer as well. It could not be a hotel paper ex- 
clusively, it would not get support enough, for the 
topics it would treat of would be work to the 
hotel crowd, and they will not pay regular 8ub« 
scriptions for that which is work ; but its subject 
matter would be the play of society people and 
judicious records of their successes, and money 
would be no object The scope of such a journal 
would be as broad as the continent It should 
have the society editors or society reporters of 
every Sunday paper in the land for its correspon- 
dents and would find an exhaustless field as yet 
quite undeveloped in finding out, comparing, classi- 
fying and tracing the local and individual speci- 
alties of the most widely separated communities. 
For it is a singular fact that every town possesses 
same members of society, who boast of a speci- 
alty, generally some special dish which they make 
of peculiar excellence; in many ordinary parties 
the one specialty is the controlling motive for the 
gathering, but when the occasion is an extra- 
ordinary one, such as when a distinguished guest 
has to be entertained and the city hotel is not con- 
sidered to be equal to the emergency, then in ad- 
dition to the town's specialty, every noted indi- 
vidual specialty of the town's own dinner-givers 
is contributed by the several makers, and as a re- 
, suit the banquet table is of course unsurpassable. 

It was only the oth^r day the New York Hotel 
Reporter contained an account of the rise if not 
of the progress of one of these local sp>ecialties in 
the discovery of some man upon the northeastern 
coast that a good stew can be made of mussels as 
well as oysters, and in consequence, everybody 
around was eating mussel stews. Now, as mus- 
sels are very abundant anywhere along the coast, 
the other neighborhoods that will take up the 
specialty of a mussel stew will want to know 
about the individual specialties whether johnny- 
cake or brown bread that are required to complete 
the feast. As meagre as the account is in partic- 
ulars, however, it is evident that but for the news- 
paper mention the many who have been thinking 
that a stew had to be oysters or nothing would 
have known nothing of the mussel ciubs' suc- 
cesses, and when it is considered that every town 
has its special dishes and that while the above in- 
stance occurs in Maine both Jacksonville antf 



THB AMERICAN COOK. 



TTallahassee in Florida boast excellencies of their 
own -which have never been shown up, and which 

Maine is in perfect ignorance about. It is plain 

the new journal of dinner giving and culinary 

4ifiairs would find plenty to do. 



DEVILED OYSTERS IN SHELL. 

These are oysters in a thick sauce baked like 
tleviled crabs in the shells with bread crumbs on 
top. They might be called scolloped oysters just 
as deviled crabs might be called scalloped crabs, 
but they are not. 

Select the deep shells of oysters of good shape; 
they will require careful cleansing with a brush 
and running water. Take the largest oysters of 
the locality, they may by Lynnhaven*s or Chesa- 
peakes, or Norfolk Inlets, or Mobile Plants, or 
Baratarias, or Tampa Bays, or Galveston Bayous, 
they are all right without regard to name if they 
are only large, white, fat and have the natural salt 
taste of sea water. Set them on the scald but not 
boil, then drain them in a colander. Use half 
oyster liquor and half milk, boil it, put in a liberal 
■allowi^nce of good butter, some salt and pepper 
■and thicken with flour mixed in milk. Then 
butter the shells; put in each one four or five of 
the shrunken oysters or what they will hold, fill 
up the shell with a spoonful of the sauce, have 
some finely chopped crumbs of loaf bread ready 
and cover the oysters with them. Bake till light 
brown. While they are baking melt some butter 
■and moisten the top toasted surface with a spoon* 
f ul of it, and when brown enough send the oysters 
in the shells, with lemons cut in fancy shapes for 
garnish and toast to eat with them. 



divided down the back. Throw it into boiling 
water for a few minutes, then into cold ; get out 
the soft marrow by pressing and scraping with a 
knife. Put the marrow into a frying pan with 
butter, pepper and salt, scramble it over the fir«, 
make thin toast in fancy shapes and spread the 
marrow like butter evenly upon it. Set in the 
stove for a minute or two and send it in hot. 



BRAIN PATTIES. 

Parboil a set or two of brains in water, put them 
then in cold water and pick off all the dark skin. 
Take a frying pan and put in a spoonful of butter, 
a teaspoon of minced onion and a tablespoon of 
minced parsley ; put in the brains, two egg9 and 
a spoonful of milk and scramble them over the fire 
like scrambled eggs, while cooking add a slight 
grating of nutmeg and juice of half a lemon^ 
pepper and salt. Bake puff paste palty cases, take 
out the lids and remove surplus paste from the in> 
side; fill with brains, put on the lids and serve 
garnished with parsley. 



MACAROON ICE CREAM. 

Use the soft macaroons which are made same 
way as egg kisses with plenty of crushed almonds 
in to make them brown. Allow a pound of 
macaroons to about three pints of pure cream. 
Sweeten the cream with maraschino, chop maca- 
roons and mix in; freeze as usual, then pack it in 
a brick mould and freeze again solid enough to 
cut in slices. 



BfARROW TOAST — ONE WAY. 

The surpassing merit of these two specialties 
lies solely in the scarcity of marrow and the con- 
sideration that hotels having six hundred people 
can't indulge. 

Take the marrow bone out of a round of beef 
lor every two or three persons and saw it in 
lengths of one inch as far as the marrow extends 
— ^these are the ring bones that may be seen in the 
middle of round of beef steaks. Place close to- 
gether in a pie pan, pepper and salt well, bake in 
•a hot oven to get a brown surface. Make some 
thin toast, cut in shapes, take the marrow out of 
the bones with a teaspoon and place in the middle 
of each piece of toast, the brown side up ; serve hot. 



MARROW TOAST — ANOTHER WAY. 

The spinal marrow of an ox is like brains but 
somewhat richer in substance ; the leathery outer 
cord is not eatable. The butchers will save it, 
removing the entire string when the carcass is 



BANANA AMBROSIA. 

Cut bananas in small pieces into a bowl and 
shake some powdered sugar over, cut oranges in 
slices all over the bananas, and cover with grated 
cocoanut and then with powdered sugar again, 
then more bananas and oranges till the bowl is 
full and moisten it with sweet wine. To be served 
as a cold dessert. Add almonds and candy if liked. 



The Florida Shrimp. 



The Florida shrimp being the largest shrimp, 
must be adjudged to carry off the palmetto over 
every shrimp of the Northern zone as the best, 
for there has never been but one serious fault 
found with the shrimp, and that one was its ex- 
asperating smallness. The Florida shrimp shows 
the world of visitors what a shrimp ought to be 
in size. Your Northern shrimp may be well 
enough in flavor and in depth of color, but it re- 
quires the eater to wear magnifying spectacles to 
get any satisfaction out of eating it, hence It is 
chiefly used as a relish with the afternoon tea by 
elderly parties in Boston and the other cities 



I 



THE AMERICAN COOK. 



"where glasses are generally worn. The Florida 
shrimp is different. Then the shrimp ought to 
be skinned or shelled before being eaten, but the 
Northern shrimp is so small, that any healthy 
person, with or without spectacles, could eat them 
faster than any six persons could husk them out, 
consequent y, those who do indulge have to pinch 
them up by the head and tail and bite them off 
close with the shucks on, and all because of the 
liigh price of labor. It is not so with the Florida 
shrimp. The annoying diminutiveness of the 
Northern shrimp has even had an effect upon the 
forms of speech of the people ; the bluff seafarers 
of the coaEt towns do not call a diminutive weak- 
ling there a dude, or any such tame appellation, 
they only call him a little shrimp of a man, and 
that settles it, and him. But they have never seen 
the Florida shrimp, one of the robust, full-grown, 
horny and corpulent old residents. 

So those i».terested in the Northern shrimp in- 
dustry naturally try to make their shrimp appear 
as large as they can. One such man I caught in 
the act of misrepresenting the size of Northern 
shrimp. It was in an old cathedral town, an old, 
ivy-green, ruinous, tumble-down, red-brick, moss- 
covered town, and the old fellow was just as old, 
and had an old basket on his head, and this is 
what he cried as he went along: 

"Fresh shrimps!" 
• "Here's your double D*8." 

"As big as bullock's knees. 

"From the tops of the trees. 

"And the bottoms of the seas. 

"And a many of *em weighs a pound I*' 

I thought there was some wonder in the basket 
and that he had either Florida shrimps or lobsters, 
but it did not turn out so. His shrimps were the 
very small ones, not like the Florida shrimps, of 
which, although so much larger, comparatively 
few would weigh a pound, or more. 

There are shrimp in cans. Southern shrimp of 
good size; they are very good and getting widely 
diffused. There are more brands of canned 
shrimp than one, now ; they are getting better — 
better filled, solid packed, fresher flavored. These 
shrimp are large beyond comparison with the 
Northern shrimp, yet they are but the siftings in 
size, the small fry of the monsters that may be 
seen in the baskets at the Florida markets. It 
would not do to can such as those in the present 
regulation size of can, the buyer would only find 
about four individuals in a can, and these would 
not be the very double D's themselves, for they 
would be shorn of the glory of their wonderful 
horns. Some of the shrimp that come to the 
Florida hotels to be cooked, will measure from the 
point of the beak to the tip of tail eight or nine 
Inches, and to the end of the horns, twelve inches 



more, making a total length of twenty inches ot 
shrimp, and there are several counties yet tc I e 
heard from, for a large part of Florida is as yet 
unsurveyed and scarcely explored, and no one 
who has observed how fast the shrimp increases 
in size as he goes South, will doubt but that un- 
discovered country will some day reveal shrimp- 
at least twice as large as these. Another thing 
that remains undiscovered, I wish some intelligent 
fibhermen would make known, and that is how 
the shrimp manages his horns, so much longer 
than himself, and what he does with them on his 
business trips in the tepid waters of the Gulf 
Stream, or dodging the frolicsome jelly-fish in 
the surf on the sandj' beach. As his remains lie 
subject to inquest in the fish baskets, the Florida 
shrimp*s horns look like unlimited shoe-strings — 
pink mermaid's shoe-strings, twined in tanglefool 
knots about the others, so that in lifting one you 
lift a sti'ing of them. In life does he part thein 
in the middle, let them fall behind and follow 
him at their leisure, or brai J them down the back^ 
or coil them like a Chinaman's que on top of his 
head, or does he use them as oars, or clasp the 
ends of them straight ahead like hands of a bather 
about to dive deep down in the Florida coral 
grove, where tlie purple mullet and gold fish rove, 
or does he simply take his horns straight like 
many another old settler.^ 

Through a series of inferences and deductions, 
I have come to the conclusion that the average 
market price of these large shrimp, is five cents 
per pound, uncooked and on sale like any other 
fish, and they are bought for th^ solid eating that 
is in them by people who are hungry and mean 
business. To take two bites of a cherry and two 
bites of a shrimp is a mark of feeble executive 
ability, but not when the Florida shrimp is ia 
question, for the most energetic eaters having hun 
husked out and lying at length on the plate like a 
good-sized, clean-scraped radish, find it expedient 
to cut him in three portions unless they have an 
abnormal mouth. In order to see these largest 
specimens, however, it is necessary to rise in tlie 
morning and follow the little housekeepers as 
they come out through many a garden gate and 
trip along to the market. Some of them will get 
lost among the banana stands and pine-apple 
stalls, and along sidewalks where the countless 
boxes of oranges and lernons in transit, crowd 
them off into the gutters, but the survivors unde- 
terred press on, and you will find that though on 
pleasure they arc bent, tiiey have a frugal mind 
if vou watch their motions around' the table cov- 
ered with piles of shrimp. Everything is sold by 
the five cents' worth. There are stands with 
stone-tops, zinc-tops, even with marble- tops, and 
upon them are handfuls of shrimp, at five cents 



THE AMBiUCAN COOK. 



ads 



a pile and the buyers with their baskets circulate 
around the first But the seller at the next stand 
has :i cheery voice and he makes a noise while he 
makes his piles larger and larger as they look oa 
Now my old man of the cathedral town ought to 
be over there at the further stand for couldn't he 
cbIX the buyers and the baskets around him with 
his 

"Here's your double D'sl" 

But, meanwhile, the first seller is not idle but 
has increased the size of his piles until they cer- 
tainly contain a pound weight and then for the 
crowning, then for Hagniappe^'* he draws from a 
special basket the grand forefathers of the hamlet, 
the patriarchs of the race, the first settlers, the 
graded long-horns, the dime show giants of the 
shrimps and lays them on top and the biggest 
piles rake in the nickles. 

You may see the shrimp- fishers at work any 
fine morning when there is only a sunny ripple 
on the sea along the sloping white^sanded beach. 
There are two dark spots a quarter of a mile out 
in the watef. They are men's heads, the men are 
a good way off, they are about two acres apart, 
each one dragging his end of a net by means of a 
band across his breast and shoulder and their 
progress towards the water's edge is extremely 
slow. If you take a walk and come back after a 
while you will find them just stepping out of the 
water, and you can see between the meshes what 
the net has brought ashore. There are shrimp 
thoroughly dissatisfied with the climate and mak- 
big a vigorous kick ; there may be a bushel basket- 
ful or only a pound. The fishers scarcely look at 
them, they are looking for godsends, such as a 
large sheephead or a dozen croakers or a string of 
speckled sea trout They went for shrimp and 
knew they would get them, but the stray fishes 
are special favors of the sea which old Neptun 
throws into their toilful nets for ^''lagniappe^^ 



(Written for the Jacksonville, Fla., Illustrated Hotel News.) 

The Breakfast Bill of Fare. 



While so much attention is being bestowed at 
this holiday season upon the hotel dinner bills 
of fare, perhaps there ought to be a little con 
sideration of the breakfast bill as well, for if 
the dinner is the more laborious, elaborate and 
expensive meal, the breakfast has the more 
difficult mission of pleasing many of whom do 
not want to be pleased, and will be blamed, 
or will 'blame themselves, if they do be pleased, 
and it comes in place here in this warm and 
flowery land to enquire what can be done 
about it. Before the best breakfast menu ever 
made up and the best breakfast imaginable can 



ever do much good, I think there is something to 
be done in the dining room to make it different 
from what it is now, and although I have looked 
over the portraits of all the competent hotel men 
I ever knew, there was not one that seemed equal 
to this one little task ; there is some other officer 
wanted yet and I can't think who it can be unless, 
perhaps, it is the hotel landlady. Of course it is 
well known that it is altogether against every 
hotel man's principles to have any lady meddling 
in the running of any hotel man's hotel, still if 
they will please not go anywhere else I think they 
might interfere advantageously in the fixing up 
and management of the breakfast room windows 
especially on the green, arboraceous floricultured 
side of the house, but they ought never to need ta 
set foot in the kitchen, because they cannot keep 
from worrying where worry does no good. If 
"this pleasing, anxious beng," the landlord's wife, 
could only take a cigar and some philosophy and 
contentment, and sit outside on the porch, the same 
as her husband does, and let the machine run itself 
after the necessary oil has been supplied to run it 
with, then it would be different. However, I have 
seen inside some of the private houses and while 
I would not give much for the cooking they do, 
nor the tables they set, it must be owned their 
windows look better than ours, for when a hotel 
man makes a dining room just as fine as he knows 
how, for the last touch of furnishing he boards up 
all his windows with hideous slat-bar blinds and 
thinks that is happiness. It seems to me it would 
be jollier to eat breakfast outside, under a Florida 
fig tree, with the vari-colored Florida chameleons 
picking up the crumbs that fiill from the rich 
men's table, than in such a solemn shop as that 
makes. What is wanted is for the lady of the 
house to wait till the hotel man goes to NVw York 
to engage his help for the season, then order all 
those blinds taken down, and then fix up the win- 
dows her own way. That way is not easy to 
describe but, as near as it can be told, they get for 
the tops of each window a harlequin or lambre- 
quin, or some such word ; they hang on that some 
white mosquito-bar stuff that drapes both sides of 
the window like Spanish moss hanging from the 
cypress and myrtle ; they gather up the slack and 
hang it over a great golden hook on each side, and 
then there is something else, it is a crimson tassel 
hanging down fuschia-flower fashion in the middle 
of the window. If this attempted description has 
only served to plunge the subject into still deeper 
mystery, I might get drawings made and have the 
whole thing set to music so that the parties to be 
interviewed may be i-^duced to read it But per- 
haps all the necessary articles are to be found in 
furnishing stores. When that is done raise the 
window a little, and Ux in the alabaster light from 



THE AMERICAN COOK. 



the golden orbe of the orange trees, and the vanilla 
flavor of the magnolia blossoms later in the season, 
ard the blooms from the pomegranate and China 
rose can blow in if you choose, and now we are 
fixed to give the people something to eat. This is 
the bill of fare : 

BREAKFAST. 



FRUIT. 



•■««••«•••««•«•«*•*••■ ■■■■>■•■■ ••«••« m»»mmm»mmmmm»mm ■■••■■! 



Oatmeal Mush with Cream. Hominy, Grits. 

FISH. 

BROILED AND FRIED. 

Sirloin Beefsteaks plain or with Onions or Tomato 
uce. Mutton Chops. Fork Cutlets plain or breaded. 
Calf's Liver. Breakfast Bacon. Sausage. 
Ham. Tripe. 



EGGS. 
Fried. Broiled. Poached. Scrambled. Omelets. 

POTATOES. 

French Fried. Lyonaise. Saratoga. Baked. 

Stewed in Cream. 

Codfish Balls. Corned Beef Hash. 

BREADS. 

Hot French Rolls. Corn Bread or Muffins. 

Graham Bread. Wheat Bread. Toast Dry, Dipped or 

Buttered. Batter Cakes and Syrup. 

Java CnfFee. Green and Black Tea. Chocolate. Milk. 

Iced Tea. 



HOURS FOR MEALS. 
BreakList, 6:30 to 10. Dinner, i to 3. Supper, 6 to 8:3a 

An extra charge will be made for dishes ordered not on the 
Bill of Fare, and for Meals, Fruits, etc., served in rooms. 

Somebody has remarked concerning disputed 
points in the arrangement of bills of fare that 
there is no ultimate authority to settle such 
questions, forgetting what a government we have 
and how every great and difficult question of 
public polity is referred back to th^ primary source 
of power, the people themselves for settlement. 
The forms of bills of fare vary, but the people who 
come and go order their meals always in nearly 
the same rotation. The above arrangements fits 
them, as the saying is, like the paper on the wall. 
First is the heading "Fruit,** and under it a blank 
line long enough to write in the particular kind. 
It would not do to print in the names of the fruits 
in Florida, there are too many changes, too many 
fruits, they run from a to 2, from apricots to Zan- 
zibar plantains, besides the etc., such as Japanese 
plums and mango apples, and there may be reason 
for putting even these last on the table and on the 
bill of fare sometimes. For where there is a man 
that has not at some time heard a ^'dark-eyed maid 
■with her sweet guitar" sing 

**0, I want to gt> 
To the land where the mango apples grow." 

Well, that's Florida. Mangoes grow down 
south below the frost line, and, wherever they 
come from there are plenty of them in the markets. 
They look very well, something like a pawpaw. 



and look as though they ought to be good to eat 
It is said tliat every seven years the human body 
is renewed and the tastes change, and some who 
dislike celery or other peculiar flavors in youth, 
change to a great liking for them later in life. 
Every seven years, therefore, every person tastes 
a mango to see whether their time to like it has 
come around yet This is why we have a blank 
space left to write it in . 

It is equally necessary to have a blank line 
under the next heading, "Fish," for as there are 
generally too many items in the breakfast bill, 
even oysters in all styles become commonplace if 
printed there and are a more attractive dish if 
written in afresh. If you do in the South as South- 
ernes do, there will appear in that lime^'tenderloin 
of trout," a thing discovered and patented here. 
We have no State rights for sale; people must 
come to Florida for it Then, sometimes, besides 
the ordinary run of breakfast fishes there will be 
"snapper au court-bouillon," or, "a la Palatka,'* 
and, again, that first-class delicacy, mullet roes—* 
both soft and hard roes— breaded and fried. 

- In the remaining blank under the meats comes 
the chicken, fried, stewed, or a la marengo, or the 
quail or venison steak, or any special message 
there may be. It makes but little difference what 
it may be, the written line is always read first, it 
may be all that is read ; it is taken as a special 
notice, there is a sort of write-me-a-letter-from- 
home - and-tell-me-youVe-got-pig's-feet-for-break- 
fast feeling in regard to it, and then it is a sign 
that it is a fresh edition, like the morning paper, 
and not the the same old breakfast we always have. 

DINNERS IN COURSES. 



(Prom Articles Written for the Jacksonville, Fla., Ulu* 
strated Hotel News.) 



They were very high society people who first 
caused me to take notice with what perfect ease 
such people can order a dinner in courses from 
the regular hotel bill of fare when they are so 
minded. There were eight or nine in the party; 
they occupied one table. The head of the party 
was the wealthy owner of one of the greatest 
newspapers in this country, but I do not like to 
make free with names, as the only object is to 
show that the straight and sensible bill of fare 
used in the best hotels is all sufficient for any 
style. 

This was at a delightful resort, in a hotel, not 
too fine, but one I had heard of when a thousand 
miles away, and months before I saw it; heard of 
it not for the French that was or was not put in 
the bill of fare, but because its tables were remark* 
able for being always decorated with hot- house 
flowers. 






THE AMERICAN COOK. 



aut 



When this party came to dinner the gentleman 
at the head of the table took the bill of fare him- 
self, and instead of submitting it to each one to 
order what they might please, he ordered one 
course for all, selecting the meat, the sauce, and 
one or two vegetables, and a very small portion 
for each. When that course was ended the plates 
and silver were required to be exchanged and an- 
other course was ordered from the same bill, and 
so it proceeded throug hnine or ten or even twelve 
-courses, a change of silver and plates and glasses 
being required for each course and one waiter with 
^a little outside assistance kept in constant attend- 
ance for the two hours' duration of each dinner. 
They found everything needful to make a choice 
-and varied dinner ' in that straight bill of fare. 
After the first day the steward caused to be 
prepared a light soda punch or strawberry Ro- 
maine and although it was placed at the bottom 
of the bill beside the Regular ice cream, this party 
•observed and knew when to order it, as a course 
between the entree and the roast fowl. They 
femained about three weeks, always adhering to 
the same habit. When a hotel advertises rates 
irom three to five dollars per day, the five dollar 
rate is for such parties as this who require more 
service and better than the majority. The table 
d'hdte dinner was so much more than sufiicient 
that had a party at the next table and the next 
chosen to dine in the same way, Ihey could each 
have selected courses from the same bill different 
from either of the other tables. 



At the time when a public banquet awaited 
■Oeneral Grant, whichever way he might happen 
to turn, one was prepared in his honor in a west- 
ern city of great celebrity in its day. The Mayor 
and city council -were the movers and other lead- 
ing citizens joined. Two hundred and fifty invi- 
tations were issued. The banquet waa given in 
the principal hotel. TheV-e was plenty of available 
wealth to make the affair a brilliant one, but the 
isolation of the locality, made the procurement of 
luxuries as difiicult as it was costly. A sumptuous 
banquet was secured, however, and in course of 
preparation. The steward in charge could not 
•entertain the idea of using a bill of fare of the 
ordinary routine pattern, but decided that the 
dinner must be served in courses, and that there 
must be a frozzen punch in the proper place, and 
the menu must be printed in corresponding form ; 
which, accordingly was done, and, which was 
unfortunate under the circumstances, as one of 
the printed menus was placed at every plate. 
A large proportion of the guests were boarders at 
this and other hotels and were accustomed to 
•order dinner from the straight American plan bill 
<»f fare. 



The soup being ready in place it was passed 
along in due course when the guests sat down to 
table, but instead of any other course following, 
about the first word was from a waiter: 

**A man says he doesn't want any fish but he'll 
take quail and asparagus." 

*'But he can't have it," answered the steward 
excitedly.** Did'nt I tell you this is a course din- 
ner? The asparagus goes with the sweet-breads, 
and the quail doesn't come on till after the punch.'* 

**Oh — I did start to say something, but the man 
says he knows what's good, he sees it in the bill 
of fare and he wants it, and I'll never go near him 
any more.'* So that waiter slid off, but there 
were fifty waiters, and if the steward had been 
listened to, in ten minutes there would have been 
a riotous confusion, and the banquet would have 
been a failure and a disgrace; instead of that 
occuring, the cooks and carvers immediately 
dropped into their every-day habit, served to each 
waiter his order as nearly as possible and as quietly, 
without the smallest heed to the planned courses^ 
and all went smooth and tlie guests got what they 
wanted. 

Then there came the usual few minutes of quiet 
and the steward rallied himself to get the punch 
served in the proper place. He did not want to 
give up as one totally defeated, and, besides, the 
punch was of the finest quality, such as costs 
about twenty-five cents a glass, like Imperial or 
Victoria punch, made of champagne, cordials, and 
the juice of imported fruits; there was enough 
provided for two hundred and fifty ; it had cost 
perhaps fifty dollars to prepare. The steward had 
it filled into punch glasses, carried in, and set one 
to each plate. But it was not received with a 
welcome. Doubtless some among the many knew 
what it was, and what for, as every guest was a 
somebody, else he or she would not have been 
there, but while some let the glass remain indif- 
ferently, a good number were offended and made 
the waiters carry it out again, scowling and saying 
they were not ready for their ice-cream yet, as if 
they thought the waiters were trying to curtail 
the length of their dinner; and when near the last, 
the real ice-cream was handed around, those who 
had accepted the punch 'pushed this aside, saying 
they had already had their ice-cream. There are 
several life size morals in this relation, but I have 
not time to draw them. 



The way to make a fine and remarkable bill o£ 
fare is to have ripe strawberries on New Year's 
Day, when they cost a dollar apiece, or the first 
shad of the season, or some young elephant meat 
from Africa, or anything that the other house 
can't get 



( 





ml'% 




mp 




00i 




BLACK PAGES YO^ WRITING I^EGIPES UPON. 



SCBAPS ABOUT EDIBLES. 



A Typioal American Dish. 

The American edible clam of the Atlantic seaboard 
is not much larger than our scallop or scollop. 
Baw, it does duty for the oyster * au naturel;*' and 
in this simple condition it was likewise devoured 
by the Romans, vinegar being sometimes replaced 
by oxymel. When clams were eaten cooked, the 
disciples of Apicius and Lucullus placed the mol- 
luscs in a new stewpan with a little oil, sweet wine, 
and pepper. The coction was completed over a 
slow fire, and before serving much more pepper was 
added to the stew. Mrs. Hales — the Miss Acton 
of the United States — gives minute directions for 
frying, stewing, and steaming both hard and soft 
shell-clams, and for making clam-fritters; but,oddIy 
enough, she omits any mention of clam-chowder. 
The observant M. Urbain Dubois, however, in his 
■'Cosmopolitan Cookery/' gives a sufficiently lucid 
*'apercu*' of clam-chowder; only he treats it as a 
*<pota'ge." **Clam-chowder« soup," the German 
Kaiser's cA^lell us, is made from the chopped flesh 
of clams placed in a well-buttered stewpan, and 
••accommodated" with onions blanched and minced, 
and a bunch of aromatics, salt, pepper, nutmeg, 
cayenne, and mace, the whole moistened with a 
■ufficienoy of wine and Csh-broth. Prior to serving 
the soup is to be thickened with a handful of bruised 
"crackers," and fortified — for a mess of five dozen 
olams with a bottle of Rhine wine. This is nearly, 
but not quite, the genuine article. M. Dubois has 
omitted an integral component of chowder, the pork. 
To find the **norma," or original basis, of chowder, 
we must go back to the venerable Mrs. Hannah 
Qiaase, in whose culinary '*Novum Organum," and 
under the heading of "A Cheshire Pork-Pyefor 
Sea," to which she specially directs the attention 
of master-mariners, there will be found the real 
foundation of chowder. **Take," says Hannah, 
fome salt pork which has been boiled; cut it into 
thin s.ices; an equal quantity of potatoes, pared, 
and cut thin; lay a layer of pork seasoned with 
pepper, and a layer of potatoes; then another layer 
of pork, and so on till your pye is full. Then add 
more pepper, lay some butter on the top, and fill 
your dish about half-full of soft water. Cover up 
close, and bake it in a gentle oven. 

This is veritable chowder, and in the British navy 
was, during many generations, extensively patron- 
ized by on reliant tars, by whom it was known as 
*'sea-pie," and sometimes as **lob0cou8e." On the 
shores of New England, however, it was popular- 
ized as ''chowder," and with the addition of the 
•and-clams, which were, so amazingly popular, it 
beeame "olam-ohowder." 



The oyster beds of Pnget Sound are just now at* 



tractiog attention. When railroad facilities are 
completed there is no reason why the northwestern 
section of the United States should not receive their 
oysters from this source. The gathering of oysters 
has been so far carried on by Indians, but iHtely- 
white men have engaged in the business, and trans- 
planting has taken place to the advantage of tb«^ 
oyster. Of late some very wonderful beds of oyster» 
are described as being of unusual size, and thouKl» 
more meaty than those of the Atlantic coast, quit» 
as well flavored. 



A publication announces that there are daily eateo 
in London some thousands of the hind-quarters of 
frogs, "and truly delicious they are when nicely 
cooked in butter till of a rich brown color." We 
have never "spotted" the dish on a restaurant menu, 
and believe the statement to be incapable of verifi- 
cation. Apropos cf frog-eating, however, we note 
that the Societe Protectrice des Anrmaux has issued 
a strong protest against the present mode of pro- 
viding frogs for the dinner-table in France. It ap* 
pears that the poor creatures when caught have the 
upper part of their legs, or edible portion of their 
bodies, ruthlessly cut off with a pair of shears. The 
frogs in their mutilated state being helpless, they 
are thrown aside. Numbers of them are stated to 
have been found eight or ten days after their mutil- 
ation crawling about on their fore-legs in a pitable 
condition. The society, therefore, recommends thai 
some plan of killing them in the first place should 
be adopted. 



How to Ck>ok a Oanvasbaok Duok. 



To roast a canvasback duck, pluck the duck ex- 
cept the wings and head. Cut off the wings. Draw 
the whole inside and windpipe. Put alcohol in » 
small flat pan; set fire to it, and hold the duck over 
it one minute. Clean the duck by rubbing with a. 
dry cloth. Cut off the neck and head. Take the 
skin off the head and remove the eyes. Put tht» 
head inside the duck, with the end of the bill just 
sticking out; season inside with salt and pepper,, 
and truss in the ordinary fashion. The web feet 
are not cut off. Roast on the spit for about fif- 
teen minutes more or less, according to size. 

To broil a canvas-back duok. Clean as for roast- 
ing. Split the duck on the back, season and anoint 
with sweet oil. Put the duck in a double gridiron 
with hinge. Cook over a very brisk fire for about 
twelve minutes. When placed on a dish pour over 
it melted butter, with lemon juice, salt, pepper and 
chopped parsley. Canvasbaoks should be served 
on hot plates. 

At some hotels the strawberries stand from lh» 
beginning of the meal in glass dishes on the tables, 
smothered in pulverised sugar. 



The eodfish, when at borne rambling tbrough tbe 
aubmarine forests, does not wear bis Test unbutton- 
ed, as be does wbile loafing around Ibe grooery 
•tores of the United States. 



Turtle a la Ohinolse. 

The flesh of turtles forms almost the staple food 
of tbe natives of large districts in tbe tropics, and 
is cooked in seyeral ways. No method of culinary 
preparation that we ever beard of, however, would 
be more likely to please both gourmet and gourmand 
than tbe one credited to tbe fastidious citizens of 
Pekin. If you follow it, you will take a live turtle 
that you have previously deprived of anything to 
drink long enough to render him exceedingly 
thirsty; you will place him in a caldron of cool 
water in such a position that his body will be im- 
mersed, but that be will be unable to get bis mouth 
down to it: at tbe side of the kettle, within reach of 
jBis turtlesbip, you will then place a bowl of cool 
and spicy wine. This done, set the caldron on the 
lire, and observe with glee tbe enrichment of your 
noble repast. Urged by thirst, the turtle eagerly 
drinks the wine; and as the slowly beating water in 
which he floats grows hotter and hotter, bis thirst 
Increases, and he drinks deeper and deeper of tbe 
wine, until suddenly be is boiled, and dies, full of 
wine, and fragrant tbrough the uttermost fibers of 
his unctuous flesh with the rich condiment he has 
80 plentifully imbibed. Luxury and art have reach- 
ed their acme ! — Harper* t Bazar, 



In the course of a conversation with a dealer in 
game, a Philadelphia Press reporter learned that 
within a few weeks past, since the advent of cold 
weather, a few venturesome spirits residing in that 
city decided to thoroughly test the value of tbe meal 
of tbe rat as an article of diet. The rodents bad 
been caught and caged wbile young, and fed care- 
fully upon grain and green food. The rats thrived 
upon tbe diet and their silky coats gave evidence 
of a thoroughly healthful condition. At tbe meal 
in question they had been carefully prepared, and 
were served with other viands. The flesh, after 
cooking, was found to be quite light in color, much 
more so than either tbe rabbit or the squirrel, and 
possessing a delicacy of flavor entirely unknown to 
either of the last mentioned animals. The experi- 
ment proved entirely successful and a diet of rats 
prepared under proper conditions was voted to be 
practical and economical. 



Middle aged travelers can remembei^hen native 
oysters were sold in London at sixpence per dozen; 
now thay are thought cneap at six times the money, 
and it is a singular fact that they are at this mo- 
ment dearer in London than they were in Rome 



when (be Emperor YitelUas devoured them all day 
long, and Cicero sustained his philosophy by swal- 
lowing scores of the Rntupine luxuries brought ttom 
the coast of Kent. 



Arcaohon, In France, is justly celebrated for its 
oysters, for in fact a great part of our so-called 
natives are brought from there, kept one season in 
our English beds, and (hen sold under (be name 
they have but little right to bear. Tbe bay is full 
of "oyster parks," to each of which a floating domi- 
cile belongs, tenanted by a guardian always on the 
watch. 



In Norway, where fish is prepared with much in- 
genuity in many ways, they make flour of tbe flesh 
of the fish ground to powder. It is used instead of 
rice and potatoes, and tbe biscuits made fh>m it are 
said to be extremely nutricious. 



The Duke of Sutherland, when visiting America, 
last summer, was so much delighted with the flavor 
of the black bass as served up by one of tbe Clan 
Chattan, Mr. John Sutherland, of New York city, 
that he made great efforts to secure live specimens 
for stocking a lake in his (bounty of Sutberlandshire. 
Mr. George Shepherd Page, President of tbe Amer- 
ican Piscicultural Association, took out a number 
in the steamship Spain, at tbe end of April, which 
reached Sutberlandshire aUve and well. Mr. Page 
was invited to visit the Duke at Dunrobin Castle, 
where he has reported most favorably on tbe chances 
of naturalising this fine fish in Scotland. 



Winter Soenes. 

No more the wild wood cheers our eyes 

With eglantine and aster. 
No more the kine do kick the flies 

That tease them in the pastur". 
No more are rural maids employed 

In mashes with tbe "utter," 
^ut well they fill tbe aching void 

With buckwheat cakes and butter. 



It is about now that the comic oyster winks with 
bis pearly shell and laughs inside of himself in an- 
ticipation at the fun be will bave^ at some coming 
church or Sunday-school festival. Swimming around 
all alone in ten gallons of soup, boss of the wb^le. 
thing, and not liable to set caught by hungry lad-, 
lers. But it*s tew bad. 



According to a Baltimore epicure, a highly satis- 
factory stuffing for a duck, whether oanvasback or 
redhead, is made by grating enough bread to fill 
the bird, moisten it with cream or with milk, in 
which put a tablespoonful of melted bntter; season 
with salt, pepper, etc., the rind of a lemon, a table* 



' 



spoonful of chopped celery and the yolk of an egg. 
If the flaror of an oyster is to you delectable, he 
says, add a few raw oysters who^e. A strip of 
bacon placed over the breat of the roasting duck 
gires a delicate, almost imperceptible flavor, and 
prevents it becoming dry. 



It is asserted that the nutritiousness of apples 
lias never been properly appreciated and that they 
-are far more nourishing than potatoes. Cornish 
workmen say that Chey can work better on baked 
apples than on potatoes. There is a dish in Corn- 
wall called squab pie, made of mutton with slices 
of potato app*e and onion, and, strange as it may 
-seem to many, it is excellent. Cornwall is the 
eounty for meat pies, as the miners carry their din- 
ners with them in that form. 



London is eating dried bananas and declares they 
are delicious. They come from Jamaica, where the 
method has been patented. Fruit prepared twelve 
months ago retains its flavor to a remarkable de- 
^ee. The banana is cut in half lengthwise and 
subjected to slow drying, which prevents fermen- 
tation and decay. It is thought these dried bananas 
are to open up a new and important industry. 
They can be made into wine, eaten as they are, or 
Hsooked. — Ex, 

Dried bananas are common at the street venders* 
fruit stands in Chicago. 



Soups, according to Sir Henry Thompson, whether 
■clear or thick, are far too lightly esteemed by most 
classes. They are too* often' regarded as a mere 
prelude to a meal, to be swallowed hastily or dis* 
carded altogether. 



Among the palatable soups of the period is a 
-bisque of crabs, but seldom is it prepared by the 
card. 



Egg plant is a vegetable susceptible of being sent 
4o the table in a dosen diff'erent styles and ways. 



A Boston paper gives this as the way to mak® 
Lancashire pie: "Take cold beef or veal, chop and 
season as for bash; have ready hot mashed pota- 
toes, seasoned as if for the table, and put in a shal- 
low baking dish first a layer of meat, then a layer 
<of potatoes, and so on, till the dish is heaping lull; 
smooth over top of potatoes, and make little holes 
in which place bits of butter, bake until a nice 
brown." 



The exportation of froxen meat from New Zealand to 
England has become successful beyond the expec- 
tations of its projectors. Recent sales of mutton 
have been especially satisfactory; indeed it appears 



that the value of a sheep is nearly doubled by con- 
veying its carcass from Dunedin to London. 



What Tripe Is. 



[Barlington Hawkeye.] 



Oceasionaly you see a man order tripe at a hotel, 
but he always looks hard, as though he hated him- 
self and everybody else. He tries to look as though 
he enjoyed it, but he does not. Tripe is indiges- 
tible, and looks like an India rubber apron for a 
child to sit on. When it is pickled it looks like 
dirty clothes put to soak, and when it is cooking it 
^ooks as though the cook was- boiling a dish cloth. 
On the table it looks like glue and tastes like a piece 
of old silk umbrella cover. A stomach that is not 
lined with corrugated iron would be turned wrong 
side out by the smell of tripe. A man eating tripe 
at a hotel tat>le looHs like an Arctic explorer dining 
on his boots or chewing pieces of frozen dog. You 
cannot look at a man eating tripe but he will blush 
and look as though he wanted to apologize and con- 
vince you he is taking it to tone up his system. A 
woman never eats tripe. There is not money enough 
in the world to hire a woman to take a corner of & 
sheet of tripe in her teeth and try to pull off a piece. 
Those who eat tripe are men who have had their 
stomachs play mean tricks on them, and they eat 
tripe to get even with their stomach8,and then they 
go and take a Turkish bath to sweat it out of their 
system. Tripe is a superstition handed down from 
a former generation of butchers, who sold all the 
meat and kept the tripe for themselves and the dogs, 
but the dogs of the present day will not eat tripe. 
You throw a piece of tripe down in front of a dog 
and see if he does not put his tail between his legs 
and go ofif and hate you. Tripe may have a value, 
but it is not as food. It may be good to fill in a 
burglar-proof safe, with the cement and chilled 
steel, or it might answer to use as a breast plate in 
the time of war, or it would be good to use for 
bumpers between cars, or it would make a i^ood 
face for the weight of a pile driver, but when you 
come to smuggle it into the stomach you do wrong. 
Tripe! Bah! A piece of Turkish towel soaked in 
axle grease would be pie compared with tripe. 



Redsnapper loses its fine flavor by being sent 
North on ice, and is best eaten where it is caught, 
say epicures. 



Roast grouse are often ruined by being allowed 
to stand after being taken from the fire, and thug 
become dry and parched. All game tastes best 
that is sent immediately ftrom the (ire to the dinner 
table. 



Terrapin croquettes are something made by ce^ 
tain Philsdelphia caterers to perfection, and ail 



mnde by them constitnte ft dish fit to set before 
the king. 



Moahrooms Not Poiaonous. 

People must talk and write paragraphs, but one 
that is now going the rounds should not be allowed 
to raise a new prejudice against the delicious and 
and wholesome edible mushroom, that is but just 
beginning to be appreciated in this country. The 
statement is made and backed up with some foreign 
name of a doctor that mushrooms are poisonous 
always; that the water they are boiled in is more 
poisonoub; that mushrooms in the raw state are 
most poisonous, and their poisonous properties do 
not depart from them until they are dried and kept 
a certain number of days. It does not say whether 
they are to be dried in the dark of the moon or not. 
But the statement goes on that a dog fed on mush- 
rooms died in a certain number of days from their 
eflfects. We do not know about the dog, there being 
no witnesses named, but think we could have killed 
him with peaches and cream, or peach and honey, 
or rock and rye, or almost any other thing besides 
mushrooms, if we had had a motive for it. It is 
not long since we read that a dog died because it 
was fed so many days on bread. Still, we have not 
given up eating bread. It has also been stated that 
the bread we eat is more or less poisonous, so is 
the meat, so is the air, the water, the paper on the 
walls, the paste it is put on with, the soap we use, 
the coffee, tea, flavoring extracts, tobacco, but they 
seem to be amazingly slow in operation. Some 
poisons are really quite wholesome and pleasant. 
Arsenic, as is well known, is quite extensively 
eaten for its fattening properties, and mushrooms 
cannot certainly be any worse than arsenic. That 
they are not, is shown in their consumption in large 
quantities daily in the hotels and restaurants; and 
the sauces are made with the liquor they are boiled 
in. The customers make meals of them, the cooks 
make meals of them — these are the canned. Fresh 
mushrooms are cooked and eaten all through the 
season when they are obtainable, and some kinds 
that are not true mushrooms are sold and bought 
and cooked and served with equal harmlessness. 
The writer has gathered mushrooms and eaten them 
raw, as children do, in the fields where they grew 
in abundance, and stole the ketchup before it was 
finished making and absorl>ed mushroom poison in 
overy way, along with bread poison, coffee poison, 
and all the rest. There is no need of proving that 
all these things are not poisonous as long as they 
continue to prove wholesome and beneficial, and no 
need to prove that even those foreign named doc- 
tors are quite harmless as- long as matters turn out 
so lerions with the unhappy canines. 

In England 200 years ago pies and pastries were 
nade of all sorts of good thingb — artichokes, mar- 



row, dates, raisins, figs and ginger — and it is re*^ 

lated that Page invited Falstaff and his friends to a. 
dinner of **hot venison pastry," wound up by **pip^ 

pins and cheese.'* 



The Various Fryingr Mixtures, from 
Olive Oil to Butter and Lard. 

From The Caterer. 



There are several oily and fatty substances used 
'or frying, which we name in the order of their 
cost. Olive oil is almost exclusively used in olive- 
bearing countries as the cheapest frying material. 
Here it is quite costly and but little used, save by 
the wealthy or the epicure who prizes it for the olive 
flavor it communicates to food cooked in it. Others, 
again, dLslike and reject it for the same reason. 
Clarified butter comes next in cost and is prepared 
as follows: Put the butter into an enameled sauce- 
pan and melt it gently over a clear fire; when it 
begins to simmer take it off the fire, skim well, let 
stand in a warm corner till the buttermilk or cheesy 
matter has settled, then pour it off steadily from, 
the sediment, through fine muslin, into a stone or 
glass jar, cover and keep in a cool place. It is the 
best of all frying material and greatly superior to 
lard, in that the slight flavor it communicates ia 
quite pleasant and appetiiing. 

A third preparation, a favorite with many of tb» 
best European cooks, and a genuine mixture,is com^ 
posed of equal measure of olive oil, butter, veal suet 
and leaf lard. The butter is first melted and stirred 
into the other three, already mixed and melted; 
then it is strained into a stone pot and kept always 
in cold place, well covered. The combined flavor 
of the four ingredients is acceptable to almost all 
tastes. 

Fresh butter comes next and is much to be pre- 
ferred to lard, but it has one objectionable quality. 
On account of the buttermilk and salt it contains it 
scorches and burns when subjected to a high or 
long-continued heat. This renders it unfit for the 
cooking of many delicate dishes. This tendency 
can, however, be much lessened by rubbing th» 
frying-pan with a small muslin bag filled with pre* 
pared bee suet. 

Lard is the common, well-nigh universal frying 
material in America, because it is cheap and to b» 
had in every nook and corner of the land. Its frc» 
use has caused many a dyspeptic stomach. If used 
at all only the best leaf lard should be employed 
and xendered out by steam or boiling water, so aa 
to avoid the burnt taste it gets if rendered on tha 
open fire. 



There are times, no doubt, when a oiviliied man 
may eat liver and enjoy it; but these times occur 
but seldom, and to most persons never. To tb» 
shipwrecked mariner, tossed in his frail boat upoa 



the pitiless sea, the stock of old boots exhausted 
and all his companions eaten, then a small piece of 
ofliTcris not altogether unacceptable. (Said by 
one who doesn't know.) 



An alleged new salad called Brussels is made of 
Ijbeters, oysters, chicken and tongue mixed with 
celery. 



Salads and Salad-Making. 

From London Society. 

The obvious accompaniment to cold meats is salad, 
which may be truly said to fill the bowl which cheers 
but not inebriates. No wonder that, tradition 
tells us it takes three people to make a good salad; 
a sage, to contribute the salt; a miser, to add the 
vinegar, and a prodigal, to pour in the oil. To 
which may be added an untiring steam avm or elec 
trie motor, to stir up the mixture for an indefinite 
time. For, if *<when taken, to be well shaken" is 
applicable to anything that enters the human 
stomach, it assuredly is to the assemblage of ingre- 
dients which go to make a finished salad. In de- 
fault of an automatic mechanical salad-mixer, it is 
the host's duty to perform that task; and it is polite on 
hie part to help himself first, because the beet lies at 
the bottom of the bowel, /b^ufr.to fatigue the salad, 
is the French expressive description of how it ought 
to be turned over and over; so much so, that *'Je 
vais te fairs la salade" is a popular threat that a 
good drubbing instead of a good time, is coming. 
Another saying, "Bataillons de salade," battalions 
drawn promisciously from divers and sundry corps 
of soldiers, is founded on the multiplicity of herbs 
eligible for the composition of a salad. The hemp 
plant was known as **SaladedeGascogne," Qascony 
salad, because it furnished ropes wherewith male- 
factors in the South of France were hanged. By 
such salad many a one has been choked, who pre- 
viously had cuUitivaled the cause of his death — 
theereby suflfering a much worse malady than that 
implied by the proverb. 

*<Qui vin ne boit apres salade, 
Est en danger d'est^e malade.'' 



were pronounced excellent. They were boiled hard 
and eaten with pepper. 



i> 



**Afker salad take some wine, 
And health with pleasure thus combine. 

**Salad eaten, claret take, 
And avoid a stomach-ache." 

A glass of good Bordeau or Burgundy wine, or 
even of pale ale, with or after salad, is a better,and 
to many people, a more agreeable digestive than 
pepper — white, black or red — mixed with the veg- 
etables as seasoning. 



Snails are not adequate in supply to the demand 
and are rapidly increasing in favor among our 
native epicures. 



The Evolution of Bread. 



Seagulls* esgs wsre served at a recent dinner in 
Halifax, given to some Government officials, and 



Persons of extreme views are apt to maintain 
that all mankind, being normally savages, were aa 
normally cannibals; but, leaving that moot question 
altogether on one side, it seems probable that 
humanity ate acorns long before they ate cereals or 
learned the art of making bread, and that the ven- 
eration entertained by the Druids of Gaul and 
Britain for the oak was due to the circumstance 
that its glands were the staple food of the people. 
Bread, properly so called, was transmitted by the 
Greeks to the Romans; and either the latter or the 
Phoenicians may have introduced the cultivation of 
corn into Gaul. While, however, the land was 
mainly covered with immense forests, a long time 
must have elapsed before the practice of eating 
acorns, chestnuts, and beech most was abandoned, 
and even when com was regularly grown, ripened 
and harvested the grains were merely plucked 
from the ear and eaten raw or slightly parched. 
The next step was to infuse the grain in hot water 
for the making of a species of gruel or porridge,, 
and a long time afterwards it may have occurred t& 
some bright genius to pound the corn in a mortar 
or rub it to a powder between two stones. Subse- 
quently came the handmill; but it was not until 
after the First Crusade that the windmill was in- 
troduced from the East, whither it had probably^ 
found its way from China The first bread was 
evidently baked on the ashes and unleavened, and 
the intolerable pangs of indigestion brought on by 
a continual course of *'galette" or *'damper" may 
have suggested the uso of a fermenting agent, whicli 
in the first instance was probably stale bread turned 
sour. Pliny has distinctly told us in bis "Natural 
History" that the Gauls leavened their bread with 
yeast made from the lye of beer; yet, strangely 
enough, they abandoned the une of beer yeast, and 
did not resume it until the middle of the seventeenth 
century. Its revival in France made the fortune 
of many ba hers; then the medical faculty sounded 
an alarm, declaring th t yeast made from beer was 
poisonous. lis employment was prohibited by law 
in 1666, but the outcry raised by the bakers and 
the public was so vehement that in the following 
year the decree of prohibition was oancealed, with 
proviso that the yeast was to be procured only 
from beer freshly brewed in Paris or the immediate 
neighborhood. Some form of fermented bread, 
however, the French had been eating for 1,600 



years in contradistiDCtion to the gruel and pulse- 
vating Italians and Levantines and the purely Tege- 
<carian Hindus. 



Amerioan Pie. 



The foreign visitor to these shores has, with very 
few exceptions, denounced pie as a deadly inven- 
tion of some culinary Satan. He has gazed with 
mingled pity and horror upon the native pie-eater, 
and has often been tempted to stretch out a hand 
to save him from a life of suffering and dyspepsia. 
-Coming from a nation where pie is treated with no 
less contempt than is bestowed by Herr Bismarck 
upon the inoffensive and salutary American hog, he 
is unable to understand by what unlucky chance 
the American people have become a nation of pie- 
eaters. Every disagreeable peculiarity of American 
society he attributes to pie. Pie is responsible f jr 
every variety of evil in our politics. Ruffianism 
and crime are due to pie, and pie, indeed, is the 
•source of almost as many ills as **that forbidden 
fruit whose mortal taste brought death into the 
world, and all our woe." Yet in spite of foreign 
scorn and prejudice the pie habit survives and each 
^ear adds thousands and thousands to the adorei:s 
of pie. The American love for pie can never be 
conquered. It is the strongest proof of American 
birth. The person who does not eat pie is regarded 
by Americans with distrust, and foreigners who do 
«at it are hailed as brothers. The United States 
\>ill experience a thrill of satisfaction and good 
fi-eling to hear that the Czar has ordered 1,000,000 
pics for his coronation ceremonies. It will rejoice 
to learn that there is at least one foreign nation 
that does not share the hostility felt by other great 
powers toward pie. Russia and America have 
always been on friendly terms, but this gratifying 
proof that the Czar is alive to the beauty and excel- 
lence of pie will unite them in the strongest bonds 
of sympathy and good-will. 



Somethinff About Salad Oil. 



N. Y. Sun. 



The gourmand who carefully makes up his own 
dish of cool looking salad is very apt to be deceived 
into believing that the rich gold colored oil he pours 
upon it is from the land of olives. It is an almost 
even chance that it is from the land of cotton, for 
thr sale of cotton seed oil for olive oil has become 
80 expensive that the Italian Government has begun 
to tak<9 strong me«tsures toward keeping the former 
product out of Italy, where it is taken in Italian 
Tesse>i from New Orleans, to be bottled and labeled, 
and /etMrned to this country, so that merchants can 
say that it is imported. But, to those who dread 
the substitution of cotton seed oil for olive oil, there 



is comfort in the fact that the supply of the native 
product is limited, for planters whose lands are thin 
prefer to return the seed to them, and the cotton 
lands of the lower Mississippi, which do not need 
careful fertilizing, furnish the seed for the seventy 
cotton seed oil mills in the South. This enterprise 
is bound to remain confined to the South, for the 
seed is so bulky that transportation would not be 
profitable. That the manufacture of cotton seed 
oil, however, will increase is beyond doubt, as the 
raw seed goes through processes that nearly treble 
its value, and its' oil is being used for paint and also 
for lubricating machinery. 



An Inoredible Story. 



Pall Mall Gazette. 

Not only has the intellect of the worm been sadly 
unappreciated for centuries till Mr. Darwin rehab- 
ilitated that sagacious reptile, but it appears now 
that his value as a viand has also been grossly mis- 
understood and underrated. A group of French 
gourmets, whose object it is to do for the cookery 
of the future what Wagner is doing for its music, 
are happily following up tha labors of Darwin in 
this direction, and, having recently tried this 
tempting morsel, have communicated to a grateful 
public the result of their researches. Fifty guests 
were present at the experiment. The worms, ap- 
parently lob-worms, were first put into vinegar, by 
which process they were made to disgorge the fam- 
ous vegetable mold about which we have heard so 
much. They were then rolled in batter and put 
into an oven, where they acquired a delightful goMen 
tint, and, we are assured, a most appetizing smell. 
After the first p'ateful the fifty guests rose like one 
man and asked for more. Could anything be more 
convincing? Those who love snails, they add, will 
abandon them forever in favor of worms. And yet 
M. Monselet, the great authority in Paris, has told 
us sadly that no advances have been made in the 
art of cooVery since Brillat-Savarin, and that all 
enthusiasm on the subject died out with Vatel when 
he committed suicide because the fish had not ar- 
rived for the royal dinner. 



It was the Duke of Wellington, we believe, who 
referred to hash as "something left over ftrom the 
fight of yesterday," but at some hotels they make 
it so nicely of lamb and potatoes that even epicures 
have expressed satisfaction with it. 



There are three dishes, it is said, which if put 
upon the bill of fare of a London club, are devoured 
before all the rest; so that at 7 or 8 o'clock, when 
most members dine, there Is nothing left of them. 
These dishes are Irish stew, tripe and onions, and 
liver and bacon. 



SCRAPS ABOUT GREAT BATBRS 
AND BPIOURBS. 



Queer Oustozners of Oafes. 

In M. Eugene Chavette's witty and curious little 
Tolume, published in 1867, '* Restaurateurs et Res- 
taures," some eDtertaining portraits are gi?en of 
eccentric guests, celebrated at Parisian cafes. One 
of the most famous of these was Gourier, commonly 
called *'The Fork of Death," a frequenter of the 
Restaurant Bonvelet, who iovited a victim to dine 
with him by the year, and slew him with high feed- 
ing. The first died of apoplexy after a six months' 
combat; the second held his own for two years, and 
then succumbed to a "liver complaint'* — an indi- 
gestion brought on by over-indulgence in the liver 
of the Strasburg goose, * 'three days after," as 
Qourier sadly said, when gazing on the funeral from 
the window of the restaurant, '*I bad treated him 
to a new hat for his birthday." A third champion 
then descended into the arena, a long lean man 
named Ameline, who said as his invariable grace 
when sitting down to table with his host, "You ras- 
cal, Fra going to bury you;" while the host gently 
replied by way of *'Amen,'* "Nonsense; the other 
two said the same thing." The crafty Ameline. 
however, took occasion to pick a quarrel monthly 
with his amphitryon, and, retiring sulkily to his 
tent, dieted himself on tea, toast, and senna, re- 
turning to the encounter mollified and refreshed 
after an absence of two or three days, during which 
Courier lost still more ground by eating rapidly> 
and injuring his digestion by solitary and gloomy 
reflections. One day, after this duel had lasted 
three years, Gourier, who had just helped himself 
to a fourteenth slice of 4-year-old Welsh mutton, 
threw his head back. His companion, thinking he 
was about to sneeze, muttered the customery bene- 
diction; but Gourier fell forward into the currant 
jelly, dead as the mutton he so dearly loved. He 
who had taken the fork had perished by the fork. 
He should have imitated the prudent diner of the 
Cafe Riche,who always had two dozen saucers piled 
at his left when he sat down to table, and wore one 
between his collar and the nape cf his neck through- 
out the repast, changing it as it became warm, as a 
preventive against apoplexy. 



. The heroes of gastronomy, including Mr. Walton 
himself, will gnash their teeth, which, excepting 
their stomachs, must be regarded as thetr most 
Taluable possessions, when they hear of the exploit 
just accomplished by Thomas Cute, of Mount 
Morris, N.T. On Feb. 6 that individual ate six 
quarts of sauer kraut within the space of thirty- 
seven minutes, and washed it down with a bottle of 
champagne. Having survived this feat in excel- 



lent condition he now offers to bet a reasonabl^^ 
amount that he can eat eight quarts of sauer kraut 
within an hour. This challenge is likely to result 
in an international contest, for Clute is not a Ger- 
man, and the children of the Fatherland will not 
tamely submit to his imputation on their capacity 
in the sauer kraut line. 



Captain Morris, George the Fourth's boon com- 
panion, used to sing: 

« Old Lucullus, they say, 

Forty cooks had each day. 
And Vitellius*s meals cost a million; 
But I like what is good 
When and where be my food. 
In a chop-house or royal pavilion. 

. At all feasts (if enough) 
I most heartily stuff. 

And a song at my heart alike rushes 
Though I've not fed my lungs 
Upon nightingales' tongues. 

Nor the brains of goldfinches and thrushes. 



There was a good deal of monotony and variety 
about the monthly repast of the' eccentric who used 
to dine at the Maison Phillippe, going conscien- 
tiously through the thirty-five or forty ^oups on th» 
bill of fare, and topping off with a cream meringue. 
Another much pointed out diner frequented the 
Restaurant Vefour, distinguishing .himself by bis 
devotion to sweets — a plump and rosy little old 
gentleman, who had carried the Princess Lamballe'a 
head round Paris on a pike in his salad days. 
Handel, who ordered the dinner for four, and, ar» 
riving alone, bade it be brought in "brestissimo — I 
am de gompany," was outdone by the man of an 
unbounded stomach who used to visit Vachette^s 
every fortnight and call for the proprietor.Brebant^ 
and give the following order: "My dear Brebant, I 
shall have six friends to dinner to-morrow" (men- 
tioning their names); "all experienced diners, yoa 
see! Get us up a nice little dinner — 70 francs a 
head, without wine. Have it served at 6 o'clock,, 
post-office time; I have told them to be punctual." 
At 5:45 the host arrives, inspects the table, writes 
out the names of the diners and places their cards 
at their plates, arranges the relishes according to 
the taste of each, then takes out his watch. "Ah I 
6 o'clock, and no one here." Brebant: "Perhaps 
you are fast?" "No, I always keep post-office time^ 
and I told them 6 to the minute. I'll give them a 
lesson. Have dinner served." Brebant: "But they 
may have been unaccountably delayed " "Well,. 
ril give them five minutes' grace." After watching 
for them in vain, "Put on the dinner; they can 
overtake me." Then he fell to and devoured tb» 
dinner for seven, indulging in a monologue for the- 
benefit of the waiter. "Why on earth did all tbo.«<fr 



scoundrels fail to keep their appointment ?" Coflfee 
being served he sends for Brebant, and says, with 
triumphant smile, *<You see, if I bad taken your 
advice Vd be waiting for them still. I'll invite them 
again two weeks from now, and see if they will be 
more punctual." And two weeks later, the same 
comedy having been performed with due solemnity, 
the diner reiterates his detei mination with indig- 
nant vehemence, *'D — n them ! I'll ask them again; 
I want to see how far they will carry their brutal 
lack of politeness !" 



What Bismarck Bats. 

There seems to be something in the air and life 
«f Germany extraordinarily favorable to the diges- 
tion. Bismarck has thriven on mixtures of cham- 
pagne and porter washing down meals at the de- 
scription of which the American trembles, but he 
does no more than the other most famous ruler of 
his country, Frederick the Great. Here is what 
Dr. Zimmerman saw him devour when a septuagen- 
■arian invalid: "A very large quantity of soup, of 
the strongest and most highly spiced ingredients. 
Yet spiced as it already was, he added to each plate 
of it a large spoonful of powdered ginger and mace; 
then a good piece of bceuf a la Russe — beef steeped 
in half a pint of brandy. Next he took a great 
^quantity of an Italian dish, half Indian corn, half 
Parmesan cheese. To this the juice of garlic is 
added, and the whole is baked in butter until there 
•arises a hard rind as thick as a finger. This, one 
of the King's most darling dishes, is called Polenta. 
At last, the King having expressed his satisfaction 
at the excellent appetite which the dandeloin gave 
him, closed the scene with a whole plateful of eel 
pie, so hot and fiery it seemed as if it had been 
baked in hell. At other times he would eat a large 
-quantity of chilling and unwholesome fruits, es- 
pecially melons, and then again a vast number of 
sweetmeats. 



Byron's extravagant fondness for macaroni has 
been recorded in more than one sketch of his tastes 
and habits, but his biographers have omitted to 
mention the fact that he was wont to bestow his 
macaroni so thickly with slices of truffle that the 
result — his favorite dish — might have been more 
correctly described as "truffles au macaroni" than 
as ''macaroni aux truffles." 



There are many examples on record of a voracity 
almost incredible, and sometimes, indeed, including 
the most unlikely objects. Sparing my readers any 
such details, I prefer to relate two actual instances 
from my own experience, which do not require on 
4heir part any great effort of faith. 

Some forty years ago I went to pay a flying visit 



to the vicar of Bregnier, a man of great stature, and 
known throughout the district for his power of 
eating. Though scarcely midday, I found him 
already at the table; the soup had been removed, as 
well as the meat boiled in it, and these two regular 
dishes had been followed by a leg of mutton, a fine 
fowl and a large bowl of salad. On seeing me he 
ordered another knife and fork, which I declined; 
and it was well I did so, for alone, and without any 
assistance, he quite easily got rid of everything, 
leaving of the mutton nothing but the bone, of the 
fowl nothing but the skeleton, and of the salad no- 
thing but the bowl. Next they brought a cheese of 
considerable size and in it he made an angular 
breach of ninety degrees; the whole being washed 
down with a bottle of wine and a decanter of water, 
he then went to have his forty winks. 

One thing which delighted me was, that daring 
the whole of this performance, lasting nearly three 
quarters of an hour, the venerable pastor did not 
at all seem too much • enjgrossed in his work, The 
huge pieces which he threw into his capacious 
mouth prevented him neither from talking nor 
laughing, and he despatched all that was put before 
him with as little effort as if he had on^y eaten a 
couple of larks. 

In the same way General Bisson, who drank eight 
bottles of wine every day at breakfast, never seemed 
to be doing anything of lh^ sort. His glass was 
larger than the others, and he emptied it oflener; 
but you would have said that be did it without any 
effort, and, whilst thus imbibing his sixteen pints 
he could as freely join in pleasant chat or give his 
orders as if he had only drunk a single bottle. 



At the age of eighteen. General Sibuet had that 
happy appetite by which Nature announces her in- 
tention of completing a well developed man, when 
one evening he entered Genin's dining room8,where 
the worthies of the place usually met to eat chest- 
nuts over a bottle of white wine there called 
"cross grain." 

A superb turkey had just been taken off the spit, 
a fine bird, golden, done to a turn, and scenting the 
room enough to tempt a saint. 

The vilUge worthies, not being hungry, took very 
little notice of it; but the digestive powers ot young 
Sibuet were stirred within him, and with his mouth 
watering, he cried, "I have only just had dinner, 
yet I'll lay a bet to eat that big turkey all by 
myself." 

"Done!" replied Bouvier du Bouchet, a stout 
farmer, who happened to be in the room; if you'll 
eat it, I'll pay for you; but if you come to a halt, 
then you'll pay, and I'll eat the rest." 

Instantly setting to work, the yonng athlete de- 

tatched a wing skillfully and swallowed it in two 

^mouthfuls; then kept his teeth in play whilst taking 



Ik glass of wine as an interlude, by cranching the 
nec^ of the fowl. 

Next he tackled the thiish, and after eating it 
with the same self-possession, took a second glass 
of wine to clear the way for the remainder. Very 
soon the second wing went the same road, and on 
its disappearance, the performer, as keen as ever, 
was taking hold of the only remaining limb, when 
the unfortunate farmer shouted in a doleful tone, 
<'Ahl I see very well you'll win; but as I haye' to 
pay, leave me a small bit to myself." 

8ibuet was as good natured as he afterwards 
showed himse f courageous.and not only consented to 
his opponent's request, who thus had for his share 
the carcase of the fowl, but paid both for the turkey 
■and the necessary accompaniments. 

— Brillat-Savarin. 



Some Noted Epiourea. 



From All The Year Roand. 



Among noted epicures of this era — Louis XIV — 
were the Marquis de* Cussy, inventer of a cake 
which still bears his name; Camerani, a mediocre 
actor, but excellent stage manager of the Coroedie 
Italienne, who employed his leisure hours in the 
composition of a soup, the materials of which were 
80 costly as to be beyond the reach of the ordinary 
epicure; and Journiac de St. Meard, the same who 
during the Reign of Terror had miraculously escap- 
ed sharing the fate of his fellow-suspects in the 
prison of the Abbaye. According to contemporary 
accounts, it ir&s his custom to lake his place at the 
table early in the morning and never leave it before 
night; and it is recorded of him that, having invit- 
ed a friend to dinner, he pressed him to partake 
of a particular dish, which the other declined doing, 
pleading as an excuse that he feared it might not 
agree with him. <'BahI'* contemptuously exclaimed 
Journiac, "you don't mean to say that you are one 
of the idiots who trouble themselves about their di- 
gestion!'* 

Nor must a certain priest be forgotten, whose 
elasticity of conscience in culinary matters was pro- 
verbial. Being invited on a fast day to a repast 
befitting the occasion at the house of a noted lover 
of good cheer, he was on the point of helping him- 
self to a dish, the odor of which singularly tickled 
his palate, when the lay brother who accompanied 
him enjoined him in a whisper not to touch it, 
adding that he had seen it prepared in the kitchen 
and that the gravy was simply the essence of meat. 
"Meddling fool!" angrily muttered his superior, 
pushing away the dish wilh a sigh of mortification; 
"what business had be in the kitcken? Couldn't 
he have kept it to himself until after dinner?" 

We can remember many years ago conversing 
with an old gentleman who had been on intimate 



terms with Brillat-Savarin and Grimod de la Rey- 
niere> and questioning him about them. "Brillat- 
Savarin," he said, "was the pleasantest and cheer- 
iest of men, but he had one defeet; he was inordin- 
ately fond of pork, and I recollect a dinner given, 
by him at Villers-sur-Org^, on which occasion a 
delicately-prepared sucking-pig met with such gen- 
eral approbation that our host sent for (he cook, 
and after complimenting him on his skill, declared 
his intention of bestowing on him a suitable recom- 
pense, and having ascertained on' inquiry that M. 
Pierre's ambition was to marry a young girl whose 
face was her fortune, promised a handsome dowry 
to the bride, besides paying for the wedding din- 
ner; so that the sucking-pig eventually cost him 
over 6,000 francs." 

During the Consulate and the Empire the most 
fashionable "traiteur" was the Beauvi'liers, whose 
splendid dining rooms in the Rue Richelieu were 
frequented by the best society in Paris. Unlike 
the generality of his colleagues,^he was equally re- 
nowned for his polished and courteous manners 
and for the orthodox propriety of his costumes; he 
invariably received his customers himself, and took 
infinite pains that every thing set before them should 
be sufficiently tempting to induce them to repeat 
their visit. One day a gentleman, whom he recog- 
nized as a well known marquis, came in and order- 
ed a "supreme de volaille" (a specialty of the es- 
tablishment), which in due time was placed on the 
table. Beauvilliers, happening to pass by at the 
moment, glanced at the dish, and in spite of the re- 
monstrances of the marquis pounced upon it, and 
delivered it to a waiter, directing him to have an- 
other prepared immediately. Then, turning to his 
indignant visitor,and deliberately savouring a pinch 
of snufi^, "M. le Marquis," he said, "you will par- 
don the abruptness of my proceeding but the honor 
of my house is at stake. I regret that you should 
be exposed to a little temporary inconvenience, but 
I cannot allow my reputation to be compromised by 
a failure." 

When the illustrious academicians, Villemain and 
Victor Cousin, were young students, they generally 
dined together for the sake of economy, their 
modest repast consisting of a single dish of meat, 
with now and then a couple of apples, one for each; 
by way of dessert. On these gala occasions Ville- 
main, who had-a weakness for this supplementary 
luxury, never omitted to start a subject of conver- 
sation on which his companion loved to air his 
theories; and while the latter declaimed and philo- 
sophised to his heart's content, quiet y ate both the 
apples. 

To the foregoing list of gastronomic celebrities 
may be added the names of three men of mark of 
our own time, Balzac, Alexandre Dumas and 
Rossini. The first of these, although sufficiently 
abstemious in other respects, had an inordinate pre- 



diiection for pastry and fruit, devouriog, as Lecn 
Qox'an tells us, whole dishes of Montreuil peaQhes 
%nd juicy pears with Gaigantuan facility. Dumas 
Musiderel bis culinary manual a masterpiece far 
saperior to tne r<Icu«f^uetaires or Monte Cristo, 
while the composer of II Barbiere was ne?er so 
happy as when superintending the preparation of a 
dish invented by himself* **I was born to be a 
cook," he exclaimed one evening, while presiding 
at the supper-table of his rilla at Passy; "and have 
altogether missed my vocation I" 

**But, maestro," objected one of his guests, "in 
that case we should have had no Guillaume 
Tell." 

"Bah!" contemptuously retorted Rossini, "any- 
one could have done that.' Donizetti and Bellini 
can write operas, but if either of them were to try 
his hand at a *timbale de macaroni aux truffes, " 
helping himself largely as he spoke to the delicacy 
in question, "do you imagine for a moment that it 
would taste like this." 



in the French convents scattered throughout the. 
land. 



Lovers of Truffles. 



Epicurean Olergy 



It is a remarkable fact that* the epicures of the 
world should be so largely indebted to the French 
clergy for the luxuries they enjoy. It has been sug- 
gested that during the long season of Lent these 
holy men have been in the habit of relieving their 
privations by employing their ingenuity in the in- 
vention of pleasant foods and drinks in readiness 
for the return of the days of feasting. Whether there 
is any foundation for this or not is not positively 
known, but the fact remains that the clergy, from 
whatever cause, are capital inventors of all comes- 
tibles. One of the largest oyster parks in the 
country was started by the Abbe Bonnetard, the 
cure of La Teste, whose system of artificial cultiva- 
tion was so successful that last year, of 161,000,000 
oysters distributed through France, 97,000,000 
-t'jere produced by the abbe. Canon Agen was the 
discoverer of the terrines of Ihe Nerac. The rilettes 
jf Tours are the work of a monk of Marmoutiers. 
The renowned liqeurs Chartreuse, Trappestine, 
Benedictine,and others betray their monastic origin 
in their names, and the strangest part of their pro- 
duction is that they should be the work of the most 
severe and ascetic of religtous bodies. The Elixir 
of Garus is the invention of the Abbe Garus. The 
Beziers sausages were first prepared under the 
direction of the Prior Lamouroux. The popular 
Bergougnous sauce was first mingled by the Abbe 
Bergougnous. The delicate Floguard cakes are the 
invention of the Abbe Floguard. Even the immor- 
tal glory of the discovery of champagne is attributed 
to a monk. To these may be added the innumer- 
able delicacies in bon-bons, confectionery, and the 
like, which owe their origin entirely to the nuns 



London Telegraph. 

Herr Julius Olden, a contemporary eulogist of 
the truffle, boldly asserts that ever since the dis* 
CO very of this toothsome tuber it has been beloved 
of poets and musicians above a' I other comestibles^ 
Among its most renowned votaries he assigns front- 
rank places to Georges Sand — who bestowed upoa 
it the fanciful title of "Fair Potato," and immor. 
talized its merits in a metrical legend — Lord Byron 
and Rossini. Byron's extravagant fondness for 
macaroni has been recorded in more than one sketch 
of his tastes and habits; but his biographers, ac- 
cording to Herr Olden, have omitted to mention the 
fact that he was want to bestrew his macaroni so 
thickly with slices of truffle that the result — his 
favorite dish — might have been more correctly de- 
scribed as "truffles au macaroni" than as "maca- 
roni aux truffles." The Swan Pesaro was no less 
enthusiastic a truffle-worshiper than the author of 
'<Don Juan." It was Rossini whose fertile brain,, 
stimulated to superhuman activity by dread of an 
impending gastronomical calamity, invented truffle 
salad. He was dining one day with several cele" 
brated epicures, at the table of Baron James Roths- 
child. The moment had arrived for serving the 
roti, when it was discovered to the horror of all 
present, that the Baron's chef had forgotten ta 
provide any salad I Rossini was the only person 
who preserved his presence of mind. He called for 
truffles and the castors, cut up the former into deli- 
cate slices, mixed a sublime dressing with the con- 
tents of the latter, and in a few minutes produced: 
a salad of so seductively delicate a flavor that his 
admiring fellow-gourmets unanimously christened 
it "the poetry of truffles set to music by Maestro 
Rossini." 



The following anecdote of the Count Vittalio 
Borromeo and his famous chef is related: "The 
Count was a great epicure, and would sooner part 
with his best friend than with his cook. This cul- 
nary artist knew how to please his master with a 
variety of dishes, known only to himself, in fact his 
own production, among which was one, that for the 
delicacy of its meat, the aroma of its condiment,and 
the general care taken in its preparation, made it 
the favorite above all the rest, and for many years 
it held the monopoly of the Count's table. The 
cook died, and many filled his place, but to no sat^ 
isfaction. Money was freely lavished but to no 
purpose. The Count was languishing for want of 
an appetite, until one day, after a careful investi- 
^gation an old scullion, for many years an inmate of 



the palace, conducted the new cook to a remote 
sub-cellar of the palace,iu a comer of which a large 
cage was built, and continually supplied with enor- 
mous rats, fed on meal and milk, fattened and 
purified, until ready to kill. These, and the ingenu- 
ity of the cook, kept for a long time the old Count 
in ecstasy over his table.'' 



Tableau. 



Paris Paper. 

M. Gaulthier de Kumilly, dean of the senate, re* 
ceived a visit a few days ago from his landlord. It 
was a question of repairs to to be made, and the 
senator explained what he wanted to have done. 
The proprietor listened atttentively and promising 
to have everything done. Six o'clock struck. 

"Six o'clock already,** said the landlord. 

'•Exactly," replied VI. de Rumilly; <*but that 
doesn't matter, fori hope you will do me the honor 
of dining with me." 

"fou are very kind," replied the landlord, 
"but—" 

"I insist; I shall not let you leave at this hour; 
your plate is already laid." 

'*It is impossible." 

*<I shall be angry." 

"It is impossible, notwithstanding the desire 1 
have to remain. My affairs call me elsewhere at 
precisely this hour." 

"You do not wish to share my dinner?" said the 
senator, slightly vexed. 

"You will understand why. They dine at M. de 
Rothschild's at 7 o'clock." 

"Ah, you are his guest 1 

"No, I am his cook." 

Tableau. 



r>» 



Boznan Oooks and Gourmands. 



Quarterly Review. 

In Juvenal's time the salary of a good cook was 
ten times higher than that of a tutor,aman of learn- 
ing and ability, who, according to Lucian, was 
deemed well paid with 200 sesterces a year. The 
salary of Dionysia, a danseuse, was 200,000. The 
houses and establishments of the two players in 
pantomime, Bathyllus and Pylades, rivaled those 
of the richest patricians. There were three Romans 
named Apicius, each celebrated for devotion to gas- 
tronomy. The second, who flourished under Tiber- 
ius, was the most famous, and enjoys the credit of 
having shown both discrimination and industry in 
the gratification of his appetite; so much so that his 
name has passed into a synonym for an aooom- 
plished epicure. After spending aboat £800,000 
OB his palate be balanced his books, and finding 



that he had not much more than £80,00t left, hang* 
ed himself to avoid living; .upon such a pittance 
Lcmpriere's version is that he made a mistake im 
casting up his books, and hanged himse f under a 
false impjession of insolvency. A noted betting 
man named Smith made a similar mistake in casting 
up his boo'« for the Derby, and flung himself into^ 
the sea- He was fished out, discovered the mistaker 
and ever since went by the name of Neptune Smiths 
Apicius unluckily had no kind friend to cut hici» 
down. The outrageous absurdities of Elagabalus- 
equaled or surpassed those of Caligula and Nero;- 
He fed the officers of his palace with the brains oi 
pheasants and thrushes, the eggs of partridges, and 
the heads of parrots. Among the dishes served at 
his own table were peas mashed with grains of gold , 
beans fricasseed with morsels of amber, and rice 
mixed with pearls. His meals were frequently com- 
posed of twenty-two services. Turning roofs threw 
flowers with such profusion on the guests that they 
were nearly smothered. At the sea-side he never 
ate fish, but when far inland he caused the roe of 
the rarest to be distributed among his suite. He 
was the first Roman who ever wore a complete dresa 
of silk. His shoes glittered with rubies and emer- 
alds, and his chariots were of gold, inlaid with 
precious stones. With a view to becoming suicide- 
he had cords of purple silk, poisons inclosed ir 
emeralds, and richly set daggers; but either h''> 
courage failed when the moment arrived for choos- 
ing between these elegant instruments of death, or 
no time was left him for the choice. He was killed 
in an insurrection of the soldiery in the eighteenth 
year of his age, after a reign of nearly four years, 
during which the Roman people had endured the 
insane and degrading tyranny of a boy. 



The first rose of spring — the shad's. 



The guests have dined, and the host hande 
round a case of cigars. "I don't smoke myself,"' 
he says. **but you will find them good ; my man 
steals more of them than any other brand I ever 
had." 



Ben. Butler is one of the biggest eaters that visik 
the Fifth Avenue Hotel. He devours an enormous 
quantity of meat, vegetables, milk, coffee, salads 
and sweets. A chicken disappears before him as 
though he was a Methodist preacher and it was a^ 
partridge. He doesn't affect wines. At his hom» 
he has several Tarieties upon his table, but he 
drinks only about a tumblerful of sherry. If he 
wants a drink he takes a glass of Jam^iica rum, or 
the statesman's drink, brandy. He eats four meals 
a day, and is never troubled with indigestion. He 
smokes cigars that are strong enough to knock a 
marine over. Tet he prides himself upon his tem- 
perate life» to which he traces his prosperity. 



_j 



TABLE BTIQITBTTB 



Use of the Napkin and Finger-Bowl. 



(Laramine Boomerang.) 

It has oeen slated, and very truly too, that the 
law of the napkin is but vaguely understood, I^ 
may be said however, on the start, that custom and 
good breeding have uttered the deoree that it is in 
exceedingly poor taste to put the napkin in the 
pocket and carry it away. 

The rule of etiquette is becoming more and 
more thoroughly established, that the napkin 
should he left at the house of the host or hostes 
after dinner. 

There has been a good deal of discussion, also 
upon the matter of iolding the napkin after dinner, 
and whether it should be so disposed of or negli- 
gently tossed into the gravy boat. If however, it 
can be folded easily, and without attracting too 
much attention and prolonging the session for 
several hourt*, it should be so arranged, and placed 
beside the plate, where it may easily be found by 
the hostess, and returned to her neighbor from 
whom she borrowed it for the occasion. If how- 
ever the lady of the house is not doing her own 
work, the napkin may be carefully jammed into a 
globular wad and fired under the table ^to convey 
the idea of utter recklessness and pampered 
abandon. 

The use of the finger bowl is also a subject of much 
importance to the bon ton guest who gorges himself 
at the expense of his friends. 

The custom of drinking out of the finger bowl 
though not entirely obsolete, has been limited to the 
extent that good breeding does not permit the guest 
to quaff the water from the finger-bowl unless he 
does so prior to using it as a finger-bowl. 

Thus, it will be seen that social customs are 
slowly but surely cutting down and circumscribing 
the rights and privileges of the masses. 

At the court of Eugenie the customs of the table 
were very rigid, and the most prominent guest of 
11. R. H. was liable to get Jthe G. B. if he spread 
fais napkin on his lap and cut his eggs in two with a 
carving knife. The custom was that the napkin 
should be hung on one knee, and the egg busted at 
the big end and scooped out with a spoon. 

A prominent American at his table one day, in 
an unguarded moment shattered the shell of a soft 
boiled egg with his knife, and while prying it apart 
both thumbs were erroneously jammed into the true 
inwardness of the fruit with so much momentum 
that juice took him in the eye, thus blinding 
him and maddening him to such a degree that he 
got up and threw the remains into the bosom of the 
hired man plenipotentiary, who stood near the table 



scratching his ear with the tray. As may readily be 
supposed, there was a painful interim, during which 
it was hard to tell for five or six minutes whetlier 
the prominent American or the hired man would 
come out on tcp, but at last the prominent Ameri* 
can with the egg in his eye got the ear of the high* 
priced hired man in among his back teeth, and the 
honor of our beloved flag was vindicated. 



A Revolution in Oarving 



(BUI Nye's Boomerang) 

Speaking about carving, there is a prospect now 
that in our best circles, within a short time, the old *' 
custom of making the host demolbh the kiln dried 
poultry ai dinner will become extent, and that a 
servant at a sideboard will take a hand saw and a 
can of nitro-glycerine and shatter the remains* 
thus giving a host a chance to chat with his 
guests instead of spattering them with dress, 
ing, and casting gloom and gravy over the com. 
pany. 

This is a move for which I have long contended- 
It p'aces the manual latwr of a dinner where it be- 
longs, and relieves a man who should give bis 
whQle attention to the entertainment of his friends 
at table. You would not expect your host to take 
off his coat and kill the fowl in your presence, in 
order to show you that it was all on the square, 
and it is not customary to require the proprietor 
to peel the potatoes at the table of his guest, to prove 
that there is no put up job about it. 

Therefore, I claim that the lamented hen may be 
thoroughly shattered at a side table by an athlete 
at $4 per week, and still good taith toward the 
guests be maintained. If any one be douubtful or 
suspicious, etiquette will permit him to stand by 
the side of the hireling carver and witness the in 
quest. Still it would be better fnn for him to sit 
at the table, and if the parts given him are not sat- 
tisfactory, he can put them in his overshoes pro- 
tern and casually throw them out the back door 
while the other guests are listening to the '*MMd- 
en's Prayer" in the parlor. 

Under the new deal the host will enjoy the din- 
ner much more than he used to with his thumb cu^ 
off and a quart of dressing on his lap. No man 
feels perfectly at home if he has to wrap up his 
cut finger in a rag and then scoop a handful of 
dressing out of his vest pocket. ' Few men are cool 
enough to do this, laughing heartily all the time 
and telling some mirth provoking anecdote mean- 
while. 

It is also annoying to have twenty guests ask for 
the *'dark meat, please," when there are only 
three animals cooked, and neither one of them had 
a particle of dark meat about her person. Lately 



I have adopted the plan of sefpregating the fowl by 
main strength, using the fingers when necesfary, 
and then wiping them in an off hand manner on 
the tab1e>cloth. Then I ask the servant to bring 
in that dark hen we ordered, so that we migh^ 
have an adundance of dark meat. If the servant 
«ays there is none, I smile and tell the guests that 
the brunette chicken, by some oversight, has been 
eaten in the kitchen, and I shall have to give them 
such relics as may be at hand. This simplifies the 
matter, and places me in a far more agreeable p^ac^ 
relative to the company. My great success how. 
ever in carving, is mainly confined to the water- 
melon. The watermelon does not conftise me. I 
always know how to find the joints, and those who 
do not like the inside of the melon can have the 
outside. Now, my great trouble with fowls is, that 
one day I have Nebraska chicken, and the next trip 
I have to assainate a Mormon Shanghai pullet, 
with high, expressive hip bones and amalgam pale- 
tot. This makes me nervous, because they are so 
dissimilar and their joints are in different places* 

The Mormon hen is round shouldered, and her col' 
lar bone is more on the bias than the Nebraska 
fowl. This gives a totally different expression to her 
features in death, and, as I have said, destroys 
the symmetry of the carve. 

I began my education in this line by carving but- 
ter in hot weather, and gradually led up to qnail 
on toast. In carving the quail, first mortgage 
your home and get the quail. The quail should be 
cooked before carving, but not until the chronome 
ter balance and other organs have been removed. 
Plape your quail on the toast in a sitting position i 
then, passing the dissecting knife down between the 
shoulder blades, bisect the polonaise. 

Another method is to take the quail by the hind- 
leg and eat it asking the guests to do the same, 
ibis breaks up the feeling of stiffness that is apt to 
prevail at ^ formal dinner party, and, while each 
one has his or her .nose immersed in quail, good 
feeling cannot fail to show itself. 



An Essay on Roller Skates 



[Laramie Boomerang.] 

The roller skate is a wayward little quadruped. 
It is as Trolicsome and more innocent looking than 
a lamb, but for interfering with one's upright atti- 
in the community, it is, perhaps, the best machine 
that has appeared in Salt Lake eity. 

One' sjfirst feeling upon standing on apair of roller 
skates is an uncontrollable tendency to come from 
together. One foot may start out toward Idaho, 
while the other as promptly starts for Arizona. 
The legs do not stand by each other as legs related 
by blood ihould do, but each shows a disposition 



to set up in business alone, and have you take 
care of yourse'f as best you may. The awkwardness 
of this arrangement is apparent, while they are 
setting up independently, there is nothing 
for yeu to do but sit down and await future devel- 
opments. And you have to sit down, too, without 
having made any previous preparation for it, and 
without having devoted as much thought to it as 
you might have done had you been consulted in the 
matter. 

One of the most noticeable things at a skating rink 
is the strong attachment between the human body 
and floor of the rink. If the human body had 
been coming through space for days and days, at the 
rate of a million miles a second, without stopping at 
eating stations, and not excepting Sundays, when 
it strikes the floor, we could understand why it 
struck the floor with so much violence. As it is 
however, the thing is inexplicable. 

There are different kinds of falls in vogue at the 
rink. There are the rear falls, and the front falls, 
and the Cardinal Wolsey fall, the fall one across 
the other, three in a pile and so on. There are 
some of the falls I would like to be excused from 
describing. The rear fall is the favorite. It is 
more frequently utilized than any other. There 
are two positions in skating, the perpendicular and 
the horizontal. Advanced skaters prefer the per^ 
pendicular, while others affect the horizontal. 

Skates are no respecters of persons. They will lay 
out a minister of the Gospel, or the mayor of the 
city, as readily as they will a short coated, one sus- 
pender boy or a giddy girl. 

When one of a man's feet start for Nevada, and 
the other for Colorado, that does not separate him 
from the floor or break up his fun. Other portions 
of his body take the place his feet have just vacated 
with a promptness that is surprising, And he will 
find that the fun has just begun — for the people 
looking on. 

The equipment for the rink, are a pair of skates, 
a cushion, and a bottle of liniment. 



**How do you like my waffles?" asked a society 
belle of her guest. "Could not be nicer," was the 
reply. **Did you really make these yourself." 
*'0h, yes, indeed, I read off the recipe to the cook 
and turned the patent flour sifter all by my 
self." 



Mistress to new cook— "On Wednesdays and 
Saturdays I shall go to market with you." New 
cook — "Very well mum; but who's a going to carry 
the basket the other days?" 



A New York plumber is said to have died from 
overwork. It is terribly hard on a man to hug 
the cook and solder a sink spout at the same 
time. 



J 



SOEAPS ABOUT OOOKS. 



An Openlnff for Tounff Men. 

Bally National Hotel Reporter. 

So many of the avenues opening to younfi; men 
are so completely filled and even overcrowded that 
it behooves thinking people to find new paths by 
which those approaching manhood, in the country 
and city, may finally reach a competency and per- 
haps something more. The ''National Hotel Re- 
porter" believes it can point out such a path, and 
one, too, that is comparatively untrodden. The path 
to which we refer leads to the hotel kitchen, and 
the position which is sure to yield a comfortable and 
satisfactory income is that of chef or head cook. It 
is a position which rarely pays less than $50 per 
mouth and often double and treble that sum. In 
addition to this amount of cash received, the cook 
also has his "living" which, at a low e8timate,gives 
him an income ranging from $70 to $200 per month, 
according to the skill and ability of the man em- 
ployed. The "Reporter is sorry to make such a 
statement, but it is a fact that the majority of hotel 
cooks are worthless, unreliable, ignorant and given 
to dissipation. And yet those of them who are at 
all skillful can always find permanent employment 
at remunerative wages. Does not the hotel kitchen, 
then, offer rare inducements for young men, to edu- 
cate themselves (beginning, of course, like all true 
students, at the lower rounds of the ladder) to fill 
the honorable position of master of the range? The 
subject is one which we earnestly commend to young 
men about to select a means of livelihood, and also 
to those practical hotel keepers who see that,sooner 
or later, something must be done to improve the 
character and standing of their kitchen forces. 



They have at one of the leading restaurants in 
Paris a Chinese cook whose sole and exclusive duty 
it is to cook rice. It is claimed that he can pre- 
pare and serve it in two or three dozen different 
styles, and when Lord Lyons gives dinner parties 
he hires this culinary Chinaman for the special 
purpose of cooking a dish of curry and rice that is 
described as delicious. 



The Union Universelle pour le Progres de TArt 
CuUnaire has just given a curious fete at the Palace 
theatre. After dancing had been vigorously carried 
on for some time a plentiful supper was spread on 
a number of large tables: no less than nineteen 
plats appeared in succession, each bearing the 
name of some distinguished cook, their inventor. 
M. Monselet presided, and among the numerous 
witticisms delivered by him perhaps the chef 
4'osuvi-e was an eulogium on a lobster, ingeniously 
prepared a la Belleville by "M. Mention." The 



prize, a gold medal, was subsequently decreed tcK 
M, Emile Vassant, chef to Baron Brian ger, for a 
poularde a la Anglaise, and the second to M. Ber^e, 
for bis Monde des Oiseaux a la Toussenel. The 
third prize fell to M. Escoffier. the talented chef of 
the restaurant Castiglione, for a ohaufroid d'alou- 
ettes, and M. Eaugeneiser received a prize for a 
pain de foie gras. 



Q-enius in the Kitohen. 



Hartford Times. 

* 

Another branch of the subject which comes ni^ 
yearly at the cooks' ball for discussion by the gour- 
mands is the degree of ingenuity displayed by dif- 
ferent famous cooks in devising new dishes and 
menus wherewith to tickle jaded palates. It is con- 
sidered that for originality the palm should go ta 
the chef of the French Rothschilds, whose patron 
in Christmas week, 1870, invited a select party of 
friends te the following dinner: 

Hors D* oeuvres 

Butter Radishes Sardines Ass's head, stuffed. 

Potages. 
Puree of beans auz croutons Elephant consomme 

Entrees. 
Fried gudgeons Roast camel a la Anglaise 

Civet of kangaroo Roast ribs of bear 

Rotis 
Haunch of wolf, venison sauce Cat with rata 

Water-cress-salaa 

Antelope pie, truffled Petits poLs au beurr^^ 

Rice-cakes with preserves 

Oruyere cheese 

Wines 
Xeres Chateau Mouton Rothschild 

Latour blanche, 1861 Rornanoee Contil, 1853 
Chateau Palmer, 1860 Bollinger frappe 
orto, 1827 
Cafe et liqueurs 
This dinner cost the Rothschild's chef three 
months' preparation,besides writing and telegraph- 
ing to the different parts of the world,and in money 
$400 a cover. 



New York has 430 cooks who are members' of the 
"Soeiete Culinaire." M. Fere, chef of the Astor 
House, is the manager of the American branch of 
the association, and the others are: Drolu, chef to 
the King of Spain; Bohers, chef of the St. Jamea 
Club, London, and Favre, of the Central Hotel, 
Berlin. The official paper is published at Geneva^ 
Switzerland. 



The chef of the Chinese Embassy in Paris has in> 
troduced baked ice as a gastronomic novelty and 
gives for it the following receipe: "Make yo«r io» 



Tery fine; roll out some light paste thin and cat 
into small squares; place a spoonful of ice in the cen- 
tre of each piece of paste and fold it up closely, so 
that no ail may get in, and bake in a quick oven. 
The paste will be cooked before the ice can melt. 



Queen Victoria has recently received from the 
London Cooks' Company a beautiful plaque of ham- 
mered siWer, which the Lord Steward of Bucking- 
ham has acknowledged for her in a gracefully ex- 
pressed communication. 



It was at the petiis soupera de Choisy of Louis XV. 
that the tables volantes'weTe first introduced. Those 
* 'admirable pieces of mechanism," as they are call- 
ed by a distinguished gastronome, the poet Rogers, 
consisted of a table and sideboard, which, at a sig- 
nal, descended through the floor, to be immedi- 
ately replaced by others which rose covered with 
a fresh course. 

His singular proficiency in the art of cookery, 
one of the few redeeming features in this worthless 
monarch's character, was derived, like his taste 
for working tapestry, from his youthf^il compan- 
ions, the Dukes of Epernon and La Tremouille and 
De Gesvres. 



But for the reign of Louis XVIII. being so recent 
our author would probably have referred to his 
qualities as a gastronome. In these he as certainly 
equalled Louis the Magnificent and his worthless 
successor, as he surpassed them intellectually and 
morally. His most famous maitre cTholel was the 
Due d'£8cars, of whom a Quarterly Reviewer says 
that, when he and his royal master were closeted 
together to meditate a dish, the Ministers of State 
were kept waiting in the antechamber, and the 
next day the official announcement regularly ap- 
peared — **M. le Due cTEscars a travaille dans le 
cabinet.*^ 

The king had invented the truffes a la puree d* or- 
tolans, and invariably prepared it himself, assisted 
by the duke. On one occasion they had jointly 
composed a dish of more than ordinary dimensions, 
and duly consumed the whole of it. In the middle 
of the night the duke was seized with a fit of indi- 
gestion, and his case was declared hopeless; loyal 
to the last, he ordered an attendant to wake and 
inform the king, who might be exposed to a similar 
attack. His mjyesty was roused accordingly, and 
told that d'Escars was dying of his invention. 
*'Dying!" exclaimed Louis le Desire; "dying of my 
truffes a lapureet I was right then; I always said 
that I had the better stomach of the two." 



Money is a good thing, even to a cook, but it is 
not the chief thing in life — to a cook. The famous 
Careme, the friend of princes, who boasted that the 



sauces he served up at political banquets, died in 
1838, before he bad attoined his fittieth year— 
killed by his passion for work. "The charcoal kills 
us," be said, *<but what does that matter? The 
fewer years, the greater glory. ' Careme was not 
a man to care for money, and the world is fortu- 
nate in having some disciplee worthy of him. 



Parlor Cookery. 



Harper's Bazar. 

Another set, less lofty, have descended to the 
kitchen, and call themselves the '^Pancake Club." 
This club aims at the mastery of the culinary art, 
and its batierie de cuisine is indeed formidable. There 
are silver chafing dishes, faultless trivets, and alco- 
hol lamps enough to sink a Monitor at least. These 
amateur Brillat-Savarins aim at breakfast-table and 
supper cookery, the oysters, kidneys and deviled 
turkey being all cooked on the table. The idea is 
that a theatre party shall, after enjoying the play, 
come home and oook their own supper. Also the 
breakfast for the early bird who must be down-town 
to catch the Wall Street worm — this hasty meal 
shall be cooked for him by a loving wife or daugh- 
ter on a silver chafing-dish or heater before his 
eyes. This is an admirable idea. These noble 
girls mean to learn how to make the most delicious 
Persian coffe, to attack even the kitchen range, and 
to make all the pancakes possible, to realize that 
title "dainty dishes" to its fullest extent. Of course 
one evening a week they appear in costume — white 
apron and cap— and treat their admirers to a sup- 
per all cooked by themselves. 



The Lady Amateur Oook. 



Cook*s Letter to a Friend. 



Our Lady Amabel she*ve took lessons, so as t3 
help us in the cooking. One day down she comes 
to make a apple pie. I*d made the paste ready for 
*er to roll and buttered the dish, and Jane had 
peeled the apples, and John and Robert stood over 
'er with the things, and 'Liza had hot water for 'er 
to wash 'er hands in when she'd done. So it was 
a nice "help," you may be sure! Hows' ever, she 
did it, and I baked it', and upstairs they all said as 
there' d never bin known sich a pie— tho' it was as 
sour as warjuice, for, lor*, if she hadn't forgot to 
put in the ehuggar ! 



A great cook is a- great man. For instance Fe^e, 
of the Astor House, is^ wit aristocrat in his domin- 
ions, and when away from his fires lives in excel- 
lent style upon a salary of ^4,000 a year. One of 
his sons is a promising young artist engaged upon 



flite of Europe often depended upon the kind of i the * 'Graphic" in this city. Fere's position requires 



ft knowledge of accounts as ^oU m of cookery. He 
has to Btady economy, the pr'cet'- \u the markets, 
Btndy oat new dishes, and keep an eye upon his 
sweWe cooks, eighteen assistants and ten carvers. 
His work begins at 6 o'clock in the morning and 
<iids a; 7 in the evening, and during that time he 
overseers the preparation of food for 8,000 persons. 
M. Fere's secretary is a real count, de Moiseau by 
name, irho has been naturalised and has no other 
ambition than to make the Astor House table the 
b^st in the country. — Cor. Hartford Times, 



Oooks of the Olden Days. 

The cook of the middle ages was a lordly autocrat, 
and his scepter, a long wooden spoon, was also used 
as a means of puni&hment. Brillat-Savarin tells 
this story: 

An Italian prince, who had a Sicilian cook of 
great ezcellence^the oooks of Sicily were famous 
even in the days of ancient Rome— was once travel- 
ing to his provincial estates, taking with him hiB 
entire batterie de cuisine and his Sicilian cook. At 
a point where the narrow path along the precipice 
turned the angle of a projecting rock, the prince, at 
the head of his long cavalcade, heard a shriek and 
the splash of a body falling into the torrent far be- 
low. With a face white with terror, he pulled up, 
and, looking back, czxslaimsd: 

<«The cook I the cook ! Holy Virgin, the cook !" 

"No, your Excellency," cried a voice Arom the 
rear; "it is Don Prosdocimo 1" 

The Prince heaved a sigh of profound relief. "Ah! 
only the chaplain!". said he. "Heaven be thanked!" 



Frenoh Oookinff. 

At the beginning of the sixteenth centary, Eng- 
lishmen and Frenchmen were on a parity of capac- 
ity as cooks. Perhaps, as having finer meats, Eng- 
land slightly surpassed its neighbor, but the char- 
acter of the cuisine of the two countries may be 
accurately appreciated from the description of the 
banquet of Gargantua in Rabelais. Nothing could be 
more abundant or more barbarously coarse than 
that monstrous feast. It was Gouthier of Ander- 
nach, the German physician of Francis I., who 
came to put an end to the reign of culinary barbar- 
ism in France. The great reformer of the French 
kitchen was a Huguenot, and died in 1574 at Stras- 
burg, an exile from the land for whose digestion he 
had done so much; but the seed which he had sown 
bore good fruit, and its cultivation was continued 
by that admirable cook, Catherine de VIedicis, who 
bad brought with her Arom Italy the best traditions 
of the Florentine cuisine, next to the Roman the 
grandest in Europe* There were then formed in 
Paris two companies of oooks — ^the cooks, proper and 
Ihe patissiers, but in 1770 the two guilds were unit- 
ed by a decree of Parliament as the jurande and 



maitrisse of the Queen, an old Ghillic word signify* 
ing cooks. It was from this fact that France dates 
her supremacy in the restorative art. 

An Ingenious Oook. 

Near, in the opinion of the Greek poet Euphron,. 
are the poet and the cook. Both, he says, attain by 
an ingenious audacity the apex of their art. And 
to show the intellectual daring of the cook, he tells 
the following story: Nicomedes, the great King of 
Bithynia, being once on a time some twelve days' 
journey from the sea, had a sudden longing for a 
loach. Some lexicographers explain the word used 
by Enphron as "smelt," but the general consensus 
is in favor of the former interpretation. His cook 
served him in twenty minutes this very fish. Every- 
body wondered, for the season, to add to the diffi- 
culty of the exploit, chanced to be midwinter. It is 
said that once while Selden sat in the assembly of 
divines at Westminster,a warm debate arose about 
the distance from Jericho to Jerusalem. Those who 
contended for the longer distance were about to 
yield to the argument of their adversaries that fishes 
were carrried from one city to the other, when the 
celebrated lawyer cried out, "Perhaps the fishea 
were salted," upon which the dispute was renewed 
with increased vigor. But the loach in the present 
case was quite fresh.. How then was it procured? 

French cooks can, it is well known, make a de- 
licious soup out ot an old shoe, but the curious de- 
vice of the cook of Nicomedes will be found equally 
clever. He took a turnip and cut it into the figure 
of a loach. He then boiled it gently over a slow fire, 
added a certain quantity of oil and salt — not that 
indefinite amount familiar to us in modern cookery 
books as a "pinch,'' but measured with exact and 
learned discrimination — and completed the dish by 
the sprinkling of a dozen grains of black pepper. 
Nicomedes, devouring the disguised turnip with a 
good appetite, told his friend that it was the finest 
loac*i he ever ate in his life. 



Concerning a subject upon which the "National 
Hotel Reporter" has had considerable to say of late» 
the New York "Graphic" of recent date prints the 
following well chosen words: The best hotel cooka 
in New York are French, generally from Alsace. They 
get from ^150 to $200 per month, and in a few casea 
more. This includes board and wine.^ They learn 
their business in Paris, and are often men of more 
than ordinary intelligence and education. They have 
at command an array of French culinary authorities 
to which, in cases requiring reference, they turn, 
as does the lawyer to his "old masters." No young 
American enters regularly on the "profession" of a 
cook. He is "above it,"and generally such profession 
is above him. He had rather try to be a lawyer and 
end be becoming a lawyer's as8ista^t at some name- 
less price per week, no< inclusive of board and wint . 



SCRAPS ABOUT LANDLORDS AND 

HOTELS. 



Oarvinff the Gkx>8e. 



Oliver Wendell Holmes 



Fere this a pulpit, I should doubtless preaeh, 

ll^ere this a platform, I should gravely teach, 

But to no solema duties I pretend 

Id my vocation at the table's end, 

So, as my answer, let me tell instead 

What Landlord Porter — rest his soul — once said. 

A feast it was that none might scorn to share ; 
Cambridge and Concord's demigods were there — 
"And who were thejr?" You know as will as I 
The stars long glittering in our Eastern sky — 
The names that blazon our provincial scroll 
Ring round the world with Britain'^ drumbeat roll. 
Good was the dinner, better was the talk ; 
8ome whispered, devious was the homeward walk; 
The story came Arom some reporting spy, 
They lie, those fellows — 0, how they do lie ! 
Not ours those foot-tracks in the new fallen snow — 
. Poets and sages never zig zagged so. 

Now Landlord Porter, grave concise, severe, 
Master, nay monarch in his proper sphere, 
Though to belles- lettres he pretended not, 
Lived close to Harvard, so know what was what, 
And having bards, philosophers, and such 
To eat his dinner, put the finest touch 
His art could teach, those learned mouths to fill 
With the best proofs of gustatory skill. 
And finding wisdom plenty at his board. 
Wit, science, learning, all his guests had stored 
By way of contrast, ventured to produce 
To please their palates, an inviting goose 

Better it were the oompary should starve 

Than hands unskilled that goose attempt to carve; 

None but the master artist shall assail 

The bird that turns the mightiest surgeon pale. 

One voice arises from the banquet hall — 
The landlord answers to the pleading call ; 
Of stature tall« sublime of port, he stands, 
His blade and trident gleaming in his hands ; 
Beiieath his glance the strong-knit joints relax 
As the weak knees before the headsman's ax. 

And Xandlord Porter lifts his glittering knife 
As some stout warrior armed for bloody strixe ; 
All eyes are en him , some in whispers ask 
What man is that who dares this dangerous task? 
^hen, lol the triumph of consummate art, 
Vliih .scarce a touch the creature drops apart. 
As when the baby in his nurse's lap 
Spills on the carpet a desseoted map. 



Then the calm sage, the monarch of the lyre, 
Critics and men ot science, all admire 
And one whose wisdom I will not impeach. 
Lively, not churlish, somewhat free of speech, 
Speaks thus : ''Say, master, what ot worth is left 
In birds like this, of breast and legs bereft?" 

And Landlord Porter, with uplifted eyes, 
Smiles on the simple querist, and replies 
"When from a goose vou*ve taken legs and breast, 
Wipe lips, thank Qod, and leave the poor the rest. 



When the world was younger, siys the New York 
Graphic^ and this city was younger and smaller 
than now, hotel landlords were more primitive in 
their ways, and used to sit at the heads of their 
own tables and carve the breakfast beefsteaks. 
When Warren Leiand so carved at the old Clinton 
Hotel there used to put up at his house a rich, old 
and penurious oouutry merchant, whose stinginess 
at home had earned him the reputation of "count- 
ing the potatoes that went into the pot for dinner." 
And this worthy would always manage to obtain a 
seat at Warren's elbow. **Mr. Leiand," he would 
observe on seating himself at the breakfast table, 
"I slept very well last night — very well, indeed. I 
am not at all particular where I sleep. I can put 
up with most any sort of a room— but, Mr. Leiand, 
will you oblige me with a bit of steak cut there — 
just there?" and with this he would delicately 
touch with the end of his table knife the central 
and most juicy and tenderest portion of the ten- 
derloin brought hot to the table. And this he 
would eat with well-timed deliberation, so as to 
finish just as the next relay of tenderloin waa 
brought on, when he would again remark : "Mr, 
Leiand, your beds are very fine, indeed. I'm not ai 
all particular where 1 sleep, but would you oblige 
me with another steak, just there?" and again the 
tip of his knife would hover over the steak where 
jt cut the easiest and was most tempting. And so 
on until the end of the breakfast and chapter. 
Warren Leiand, Sr.. now tells the story with artis- 
tic gusto and humor. 



The Delaware river method, of planking shad is 
as follows : Scale the fish, split it open down the 
back, carefully remove the roe and entrails and 
wash and dry it with a cloth. Then spread it on 
its back and fasten it with two or three nails upon 
a hickory plank thoroughly hot. Of course but 
one side of the fish is exposed to the fire, the heat 
of the plank cooking the other. Set the plank and 
l^sh at an angle of forty-five degrees before a clear 
hot fire of live coals and bake it to a rich brown 
color, basting it every little while by means of a soft 
brush with a thin mixture of melted butter and flour. 
When done serve it upon the plank on which it was 
cooked : send plank and all to the table. la the 



meantime the roe should be parboiled, Ihen efl^ged, 
rolled in cracker dust or bread crumbs and -fried 
and sent to table with the fish. Housekeepers can 
obtain the planks ready made and fitted with wire 
fastenings for planking shad at the house-furnish* 
ing warehouses. This is the way to broil a shad; 
Clean, wash and split the shad, wipe it dry, and 
flprinkle it with salt and pepper. Rub a double 
wire broiler with suet or other fat, place the fish 
upon it, and put it over a clear fire and broil it to a 
golden brown color. Then place it on a hoi dish 
and pour plain melted butter over it, seasoned with 
salt and pepper. This is a delightfully appetizing 
dish for breakfast. 

If broiling be for any reason impossible, a shad 
may be fried, thus: Clean, wash and split the shad 
in two, then cut each half crosswise into three 
parts, season well with pepper and salt and dredge 
them with flour. Hare your frying material smok. 
ing hot, lay in your pieces of fish and fry them to a 
nice golden brown, drain and lay them on a hot 
dish, pour plain melted batter over them and serve 
piping hot. 



The news that ''The Cock," in Fleet Street, Lon. 
don, is to be demolished announces the disappear- 
ance of the resorts which are intimately associated 
with the characteristic life of London for centuries, 
and with the most famous names in English litera' 
ture and history. Many a pilgrim to London 
would hasten first of all to the site of the old Tabard 
Inn in South wark, and search curiously for some 
trace of Dame Quickly's tavern in Eastcheap, or 
Beaumont and Jonson's ''Mermaid,*' or Dryden*s 
"Buttons," or Dr. Johnson's "Mitre." London 
indeed, swarms with taverns and clubs and resortg 
80 intimately identified with the most interesting 
traditions that old London itself vanishes as they 
disappear. 

"The Cock," of which there is a characteristic 
pieture upon another page, is not only rich in old 
reminiscence — for it was unaltered since the days 
of James I , and Pepys made merry there in 1668 
-*but it has acquired fresh charm in recent times 
from Tennyson's "Will Waterproofs Monologue," 
in which that thoughtful roisterer apostrophizes 
the "plump head waiter of the Cock." In Dicken's 
Life and Letters there is the same friendly feeling 
for (he tavern as a seat of good-fellowsliip. Thack- 
eray is never more charming than when he is play, 
fully gossiping or moralizing about the good places 
for good dinners, and when he was in this country, 
he was never more at home than when, at the 
''Century," he was seated with his cigar and his 
"modest glass," ruling with gentle sway, like Ad- 
dison with his pipe, in his familiar realm. 

Such associations as those of the famous London 
resorts of wits and poets and statesmen and schol- 
ars are of great value to any city. As they disap- 



pear the city is robbed of an influence which, al- 
though a mere sentiment, is most elevating and 
persuasive. The universal instinct of men which 
bnilds monuments and other memorials of the fa 
mous dead, the heroes and patriots, the poets and 
story-tellers and orators, is akin to that which 
fondly cherishes the material objects with which 
they were associated, and preserves their auto- 
graphs and every personal relic. New York has 
retained very few buildings which have any strik- 
ing or interesting connection with the past. The 
most interesting of them is probably Fraunces' 
Tavern, at the comer of Broad and Pearl streets, 
where Washington parted with his officers. But 
although London still teems with them, even Lon- 
don will have lost a charm which no splendor of 
architecture or convenience of building can restore, 
when the most famous '*Cock" in the world is gone 
forever. — ffarpert Weekly. 



Mr. Abner C. Mellrath, who kept a famous ho- 
tel for thirty-six years, six miles from Cleveland on 
Euclid avenue, has been gathered to his stalwart 
fathers. He was a mighty fox hunter and a re- 
markable athlete. Six feet six inches and a half 
tall, his average weight was about 264 pounds, but 
yet he is said to have frequently on foot run down 
foxes. He once lifted with his hands from the 
ground an iron shaft weighing 1,700 pounds, which 
would be equal to lifting double that weight were 
he harnessed with straps to weights and allowed to 
lift under the best advantage. Two men would 
hold a string two inches above his head, and he 
would step back two or three steps and jump over 
it without touching it, making the leap about six 
feet nine inches in height. He has been known, 
jather than to lead his horses around to the other 
Bide of the barn, to put his long arms under ahorse 
and lift it up to the floor of the barn, which hap- 
pened to be three or four feet above the ground. In 
Buffalo he once wrestled with and threw with ease 
Charlie Freeman, the "American giant," who after- 
ward in England defeated "Tipton Slasher" in a 
prize fight. Another feat of the hotel keeper was 
his chase on horseback of a fox one December over 
frozen Lake Erie far from sight of land. He lived 
to the age of seventy years, having been a paralytio 
for four years of life as a result of exposure during 
a fox hunt. He was borne to the grave Saturday 
by six of his tall sons, four of whom are six feet 
four and a half inches high and the other two just 
six feet, and whose combined weight is 1,30& 
pounds. 



At most Italian restaurants on the authority of 
the London Caterer^ cotellettes milanese, consisting 
only of a veal chop or outlet encrusted with bread 
crumbs and egg,' with the traditional quarter ot 
lemon to stimulate the palate, is a standing dish* 



SCRAPS ABOUT DINNERS. 



A President's Dinner. 

To return to Washington's dinner, the writer of 
the description continues: "First was soup, fish, 
roasted and boiled meats, gammon, fowls, etc. This 
was the dinner. The middle of the table was gar- 
nished in the usual tasty way with small images, 
flowers (artificial), etc. The dessert was first apple 
pies, puddings, etc.; then iced creams, jellies, etc.; 
ihen watermelons, muskmelons, apples, peaches, 
nuts. It was the most solemn dinner I ever sat at," 
-continues Maclay. "Not a health drank, scarce a 
-word said, until the cloth was taken away. Then 
the President, taking a glass of wine, with great 
formality drank the health of every individual by 
name 'round the table. Everybody imitated him — 
charged glasses, and such a buzz of 'health, sir,' 
•and 'health, madam,' and *thank you, sir,' and 
^thank you, madam,' never had I heard before. 

*'The ladies sat a good while and the bottle passed 
about, but there was a dead silence almost. Mrs. 
Washington at last withdrew with the ladies. I 
expected the men would begin, but the same still- 
ness remained. The President told of a New Eng- 
land clergyman who had lost a hat and wig in pass- 
ing a river called the Brunks. He smiled and 
everybody else laughed. He now and then said a 
-sentence or two on some common subject, and what 
he said was not amiss. The President kept a fork 
in his hand when the cloth was taken away, I 
thought for the purpose of picking nuts. He ate 
no nuts, but played with the fork, striking on the 
^dge of the table with it. We did not sit long after 
the ladies retired. The President rose, went up 
stairs to drink coffee — the company followed." 
This precedent was followed at President Arthur's 
dinners last year. 



showing, there are applicants for fellowship await* 
ing the death of present members. 



Prince Napoleon, while a prisoner at Concier- 
gerie, had his meals from one of the most illustrious 
restaurateurs in Paris, and they were excellently 
tsbosen. One day when a correspondent called on 
him he had for breakfast ''oeufs brouilles aux pcintes 
d'asperge," mutton cutlets a la Na^o^itaine, cold 
*capon, cheese and grapes. His dicner consisted of 
potage Voisin, fillets of sole, Tocr)'.e,^os (an admir- 
able fillet of beef) and salad. U^jr^ ibis fare one 
might worry along, even in coptlf'r/. 



The New York "Thirteen' Club has lately par- 
taken of its seventh annual dinner. The menu was 
printed on cards cut in the shape of a coffin lid and 
the repast consisted of thirteen dishes. The organ- 
ization has thirteen times thirteen niembers, the in- 
itiation fee is $13, the monthly dues are 13 cents, 
and, still, despite the awful significance of this 



A MedisDval Dinner. 



A medisQval dinner was recently given in Basl« 
in honor of the mediaeval collection in that city, and 
to augment its funds'. The guests, 120 in number, 
were summoned by the blare of trumpets to the 
table which was splendid with old plate and drink- 
ing vessels loaned by the venerable guilds of the 
city. The first course was beer soup of the middle 
ages, and the last was '*gofren" and ''aenisbrod," 
baked after the models exhibited in early German 
pictures^ Wine of the middle ages was not to be 
had, but a loving cup of Markgrafter of the vintage 
of 1715 was sent round the table. Two pianofortes 
made in the years 1720 and 1750, furnished the ac- 
companiments to the songs in a tone * 'remarkably 
thin, but at the same time exceedingly tender and 
refined." The guests wore modern garments, but 
the servants were appropriately dressed, and the 
furniture of the hall and the decorations of the 
table, to the smallest detail, were conscientious re- 
productions of the middle ages. 



A birthday cake with sixty-five tiny candles was 
a table ornament at the dinner to Mr, Evarts on 
Saturday. 



At a dinner party in Now York the other evening 
the menu, printed on white satin, came from beneath 
the wings of a tiny swan placed beside the plate of 
each guest. The swans were retained as souvenirs, 
and when their heads were pulled off were found to 
be intended for match boxes. 



Ice cream was served at a hunt dinner the other 
night in the form of whips, spurs, saddles, caps, 
and other freezing reminders of the Long Island 
hunting field. 



At a recent private dinner served at Kinsley's, 
in Chicago, the ice cream came to the table in the 
form of asparagus stalks and bananas. Cakes 
filled with cream were made to take the form and 
appearance of baked potatoes, and the deception 
was so perfect as to excite the wonder and admir* 
ation of all present. 



For a dinner for eighteen gentlemen on Thurs- 
day, a florist made a centre-basket remarkable for 
its size and display of selected flowers. It was six 
feet in diameter. There were one thousand rich 
roses and a garden of lilacs, violets and other 
spring blossoms. The centre of this piece was a 
circle of lillies — amaryllis. vitata and callas. The 
coat knots were of hyacinth sprays and roses. Th« 



same night a diDne? for 125 at Delmonico^s was 
decorated with rose baskets fringed with ferns. 



At a dinner party recently given in New York 
the menus placed at the plate of each guest cost 
sixty dollars apiece. They were in the form of a 
picture, a beautiful work of art, which could after- 
wards be used as a drawing room ornament. An 
English gentleman, in whose honor the ec^rbftir- 
ment was given, spilled some wine over hi ^^Vlt 
ruined it. Not wishing to lose so costly and Dean* 
tiful a souvenir, he went to Tiffany's and had a 
duplicate made. 



A Memphis paper says: *'The Fontaine german" 
in this city was the biggest affair of the season. The 
supper was very elaborate. The most unique and 
striking feature of the repast was produced on the 
cutting of six erand centre cakes. In each of the 
cakes had been placed six live birds — doves in some, 
in others quail — and on opening them these feather- 
ed guests fluttered their wings, and, rising in the 
air, perched on the doors and heavy window sills, 
fr^m which elevated and lofty positions they gazed 
down on the brilliant assemblage. 



It is related of the famous Spanish banker, Don 
Jone de Salamanca, who died recently, thai in 1858 
he gave a single dinner that cost ^90,000. 



The gallant Colonel Tom Ochiltree of Texas, gave 
a supper to a party of friends in Washington a few 
nights ago that is said to have cost $500. 



The dinner of the Standard Collar Club at the 
Hotel Brunswick on Wednesday night was attended 
by thirty gentlemen. The menus were hand painted, 
and cost ten dollars each. The dishes were orna- 
mented with sugar collars, and the bird musical 
dinner favors held collars in their bills. 



Nearly all the large office buildings and bank^ 
down-town have their own restaurants, which are 
presided over by a steward, a eheftLud a corps of 
waiters and attendants — but few people have an idea 
how systematically such a department of a great 
institution is managed. Take the Western Union 
Telegraph building as an example. There are more 
than eleven hundred employes ou the pay roll, and 
of these fully eight hundred regularly eat in the 
building. To feed these the meats are put on the 
fire every morning at four o* clock, and when cooked 
are carried to the steam tables. Beef, ham, tongue, 
vegetables, tea, chocolate and milk are the ordinary 
dishes served for dinner, which is charged at cost 
price, ten cents. This meal is served to all — no 
distinction is made from the lowest to the highest 
official of the company. No wine, liquors or ale is 
allowed. The men are waited on by men and the 



females by women. If any one desires a steak a*^ 
extra charge of ten cents is added. A ticket en- 
titling the owner to as many meals as there are 
numbers on it, is sold, the ticket being punched 
every time a meal is eaten, Breakfast is served at 
seven, dinner from twelve to one, and after that 
hour for head officials; tea at five and supper at 
midnight. If any of the lady employes is taken 
•iak or feels unwell a hot cup of tea is sent down 
ft^Tfi* lie kitchen, which is on the top floor, and no- 
oiiAta^'^^A^®'^®^ i^ made. The dining room is large, 
thirty by eighty feet, thoroughly clean and loeated 
on one of the upper floors. — N". Y. Oattronomer, 



"Ain't this a lUtle high?" asked a timid tender- 
foot of a Dead wood tavern-keeper who had charged 
him $1.50 for his dinner. *«It may be a little high,'* 
replied the host, fumbling with the handle of a re- 
volver in the cash drawer; **butl need the money.'*^ 
He got it 

Shovel and pick brigade — a party of Americans 
at dinner. 



**George, dear, don't you think it rather extrava- 
gant of you to eat butter, with that delicioua 
jam?" "No, love, economical. Same piece of bread 
does for both." 



Cheyenne society is harrowed up over a question 
of etiquet. ' People are divided in opinion as to 
which coat sleeve a man should wipe his mouth 
with after eating soup. 



The London Caterer tells of a novelty - the golden 
pudding, which comes on the table as abag of gold, 
such aa is delivered by banks, and upon being 
opened, imitations of money, fruits and confection- 
erv are disclosed 



One of Bezijaznin Franklin's Dinners. 



A century ago one of the notable ladies in Phila- 
delphia society was Mrs. Mary Ruston, and if proof 
were wanting that the people of those days appre- 
ciated the joys of the table it could be found in her 
receipt book, now owned by Charles M. Penny- 
packer, one of her descendants. Mrs. Ruston was 
in the habit of recording in this book particulars of 
the elaborate dinners at which she was present. 
Thus it appears that on one occasion Dr. Franklf^ 
regaled his guests with clam soup, breast of veai 
ragouted, forequarter of roast lamb, four small 
chickens, pigs' feet, a pair of roast ducks, and a 
roast leg of mutton, with numerons vegetables 
served f^om the sideboard, and filled up the ser* 
vices with a dessert of green currant tarts, jellies, 
truffles, blanc mange, cranberry tarts, English anti 
Swiss cheeses and cheese cakes. 



INDEX 



The numbers Refer to the Article, and Not to the Page. 



A half-shell roast, 8ii 
Andalusian, fish sauce, 93S 
Antelop>e, 1004 
Apple sauce for meats, 1031 

Bacon and spinach, 1093 
liver, 1 1 25 

breakfast, broiled, 11 26 
hog, cutting up a, loii 
Bass, sea, 984 

black, fried, 876 
striped, broiled, 883 
with green peas, 927 
Bear meat, 1007 
Beef, cutting up the loin, 9S9 
fore quarter, 994 
round, 995 
roast, rare, 1090 
natural gravy, 1020 
roast, well done, 1021 
rib ends 1022. 
flank, 1023- 
boiled horseradish, 1076 
salt vegetables, 1077 
corned cabbage, 1078 
heart, 1087 
Beefsteak, broiling, 1099 
devilled, 11 11 
English mushrooms, 1107 
French, 1103 
Hamburg, 11 15 
ma!tr6 d'hotel, 1 104 
Milanaise, 11 13 
natura:l gravy, iioo 
old fashion, i loi 
porterhouse broiled, 1 102 
sauce piquant, 1105 
Spanish, 1109 
with champignons, 1 106 
onions, 11 12 
oysters, 11 14 
tomatoes, mo 
Black bass, 876 
Bloaters, Yarmouth, 97 > 
Bluefish, baked, 954 
Boiled dinner, New England, 1080 
Boning and rolling meats, 1025 
Bordeiaise sauce, 910 
Boston fancy stew, 827 
Box stew, 815 

fr^, 816 
Breadmg and frying, 872 
Bread stuffing for fish, 942 
for poultry 1060 
sauce brown, 1062 
Broiled chicken, 1 132 
oysters stuffed, 813 
crumbed, S31 
on loast, 832 
in bacon, 851 
quail on toast, 1133 



snipe and plover, 1134 
Brook trout, 865 

boned, with bacon, 866 

.fried plain, 869 

breaded, 871 
Brown oyster sauce, 854 
Buffalo, 1009 
Buttered eggs, 1142 
Butter sauce, 916 

common, 917 

Cabbage and corned beef, 1078 

to boil, 1079 
Canned salmon, 975 
Canvasbacks, 1072 
Capersauce, 928 
Capon roast 1056 
Carp, baked plain, 944 
Espagnole, 941 

German, 939 
Cases, oysters in, 847 
Catfish steak, 906 
Celery sauce, brown, 1059 

white, 1092 
Champagne sauce, 1040, 
Cheese omelet, 1 148 
Chestnut sauce, 1053 

puree, for turkey, 1054 
Chicken bo led, salt pork, 1089 
egg sauce, 1090 

broiled, 11 32 

Maryland, 1063 

spring roast, 1057 
stuffed, 1061 

liver omelet, 11 50 
Chutney, home-made, 909 
Chowder, clam, 862 

fish, 863 
Chops, pork, 11 22 

lamb, green peas, 1121 

mutton, 1 117 
Cisco, 895 

potted, 896 
Clam chowder, 862 
soup, 823 

fritters, 859 

without eggs, 810 

soups, 822 
Clams, fricasseed, on toast, 861 

soft shell, 816 

roast, 811 

scalloped in shell, 83S 
Corned Beef and cabbage, 1078 

tongue, boiled, 1085 
Codfish boiled. 914 

balls, 980 

stuffed, oysters, 958 

salt, stewed, 982 

in cream, 981 
Cooking terrapin, .803 
Crabs, soft shell, boiled, 806 



fried, 807 
Cream sauce, 931 

bechamel, 932 
Cranberry sauce, 1047 

jelly for game, 1048 
Creole beefsteak, 1 109 
Croquettes of potatoes, 946 

small balls, 951 
Crimping fish, 911 
Croustadcs or bread shapes, 849 

of oysters, 850 
Cure hams, to, 1013 
Cutting up a porker, loio 

bacon hog, loii 

fore quarter, beef, 994 

fowls, 1015 

ham, 1014 

turtle, 10 1 7 

Dauphine potatoes, 948 
Devilled beefsteak, i ii i 
Dry stew, oysters, 826 
Duchesse potatoes, 957 
Duck, canvasback, 1072 

domestic, 1064 

mallard, 1073 

redhead, T072 

teal and butterball, 1074 

wild, common, 1071 

young domestic, 1066 
Dutch sauce, 891 

Easy, broiling of fish, 11 31 

Economy of broiled meats, ii3c> 

Eels, 970 

Elk, 1005 

English steak with mush'ms, 1 107 

Egg sauce, 936 

Eggs boiled, 1138 

buttered, 1142 

fried, 1140 

omelets, 1144 

poached, 1139 

scrambled, 1141 

shirred, 1143 

Fancy roast oysters, 840 

stew, 827 
Fillets of fish, 889 

white fish, 947 
with quenelle dressing, 960 
Finnan baddies, 976, 
Fish, crimped, 91 1 

forcemeat, for, 950 
quenelle, 961 

a Southern way, 963 

a plain bake, 964 

chowder, 863 

sauce royal, 887 
Fowls, to cut up, 1015 
truss, 1016 



II 



roAst, celery sauce, 1058 
Fresh mushrooms, 1108 

water perch. 891 

mackerel, 924 
French beefsteak, 1103 

fried potatoes, 943 
Fricasseed clams, 861 
Fried oysters, without eggs, 809 
single breaded, 829 
double, 830 

parsley, 867 

peas for garnish 940 
Fritters, oyster, 858 

clam, 859 
without eggs, 810 

^ame 

antelope, 1004 

bear, 1007 

buffalo, 1009 

canvasback, 1072 

ducks, common wild, 1071 

elk, 1005 

mallard duck, 1073 

'possum, 1008 

quail, 1133 

Bockv mountain sheep, 1003 

rabbit, 1135 

read-head duck, 1072 

snipe and plover, 1134 

teal and butterball, 1074 

squirrel, 1136 

venison, 1006 

wild goose, 1067 

wild turkcv, 1055 
Giblet sauce, i069 
Goose, domestic, 1064 

wild, roast 1068 
Grayling, 894 

Haddock, boiled, 914 

smoked. 976 
HaUbnt steak, 904 
Hamburgh steak, 1115 
Ham and eggs, 1 124 
boiled, 1086 
to cure, 1013 • 
to cut up, 1014 
about roasting, 1038 
roast with spinach, 1035 
breaded, 1041 
with wine sauce, 1039 
omelet, 11^7 
Herring, lake, 890 
Hollandaise sauce, French, 899 
English, 890 
original, 891 
potatoes, 923 
Honeycomb tripe, broiled, 1128 
Hotel beef and beefsteaks, 987 
broiling, 1098 
turkey and chicken, 1044 

•Jelly, cranberry, for game, 1048 

omelet with, 1155 
Jowl and spinach, 1093 

Keep*g meat to make ten'r, 1096 
Xidneys broiled, 1129 
omelet with, 1149 
Kippered salmon, 975 
Kromeskies, oyster, 857 

Xiamb, roast, 1026 

chops with peas, 1121 
cutlets, 1002 
side of, 1001 



Lake herring, 890 
Loaf, oysters in, 848 
Lobster sauce, 934 
Liver and bacon, 1125 

broiled, 1127 
Lyonaise potatoes, 1116 

flacaroni and oysters, 814 
Mackerel, Spanish, broiled, 886 

baked, 949 
fresh, broiled, 888 
boUed, 924 
salt, 971 
Mackinaw trout, 874 

fried in eggs, 875 
Maitre d' hotel sauce, cold, 880 

hot, 925 
Mallard duck, roast, 1073 
Meats, boning and rolling, 1025 
Milk stew, oyster, 824 
Minced potatoes, 868 
Mint sauce, 1027 
Muscallonge, boiled, 927 
Mushrooms, fresh, 1108 
Mustard sauce, 973 
Mutton, cutting up, 999 
chops, broiled, 1117 
dish of, 1118 
English, 1000 
tomato sauce, 1119 
roast, 1024 

boiled, caper sauce, 1081 
side of, 998 

IV ew England boiled dinner, 1080 

Omelet, 

with cheese, 1148 
chicken livers, 1150 
ham, 1147 
jelly, 1155 
kidneys, 1149 
onions, 1146 
oysters, 833 
Omelet, with parsley, 1146 
rum, 1154 
tomatoes, 1153 
plain, 1144 
souffles, 1156 
Spanish, 1152 
Onion and parsley omelet, il46 
Oppossum, roast, 1008 
Ox-heart with gravy, 1087 
Oysters, 

box stew, 815 

fiT» 816 
broiled iu bacon, 851 
crumbed, 831 
plain, 832 
stuffed, 813 
croustades of, 850 
fried single breaded, 829 
double breaded, 830 
without eggs, 809 
fritters, 858 
fancy roast, 840 
stew, 827 
in cases, 847 
in a loaf, 848 
kromeskies, 857 
macaroni, with, 814 
omelet, 833 
patties, 846 
pie individual, 843 
hotel entree, 845 
pot pie, cheap, 844 
raw, 864 



on half-shell, 837 
roast fancy, 840 

pan, 841 

shell, 839 
sauce, brown, 854 

good, 853 

white, 852 
sauteed in butter, 828 
scalloped silver shells, 856 

large pan, 834 

restaurant party, 835 

individual, 836 
soup, 819 

brown, 821 

French way, 820 
stew for fifty, 808 

milk, 824 

plain, 825 

dry, 826 

fancy, 827 
steamed shells, 842 
stuffed, 813 

stuffing for turkeys, etc., 851 
truffled, 812 

Pan-roast oysters, 841 
Panada, 962 
Parsley sauce, 919 

fried, 867 

omelet, 1145 
Patties, oyster, 846 
Perch, fresh water, 891 
Pie, ovster, 843. 
Pickerel, 115 
Pickle sauce, 1082 
Pickled salmon, 974 
Pike, boiled, 918 
Pig, roast, apple sauce, 1034 

sucking, 1032 
Piquant sauce, 1084 ad 1105 
Plaice and flounders, 966 
Plover, broiled, 1134 
Poached eggs, 1139 
Porker, cutting up a, 1010 
Pork roast, 1030 

sausage, 1012 

chops, milk gravy, 1122 

salt slices of , 1123 

sauer kraut and, 1094 
Porterhouse cut, the, 988 
Possum and coon, 1008 
Potatoes, 

boulettes, 953 

cake for fish, 959 

croquettes, 946 * 
in small balls, 951 

dauphine, 948 

Dutch fried, 878 

Duchesse, 957 

Francaise, 943 

fried plain, 873 

frizzed, 882 

Hollandaise, 923 

Lyonaise, 1116 

maitre d'hotel, 921 

minced, 868 

pancakes, 893 

parisienne, 953 

Saratoga chips, 870 

sauteed, 878 

shoestring, 882 

Quenelle forcemeat, fish, 961 
Quail on toast, 1133 

Rabbit young, broiled, 1136 
Radish greens, 1037 , 



Ill 



Baw oysters and clams, 864 
Red snapper, 912 
grouper, 937 
Remarks on frying Ash, 872 
Restaurant tenderloin, 990 
Roe shad, fried, 885 
Roast clams, 811 
Robert sauce, 907 
Rocky mountain sheep, 1003 
Round of beef, 995 
Rum omelet, 1154. 



Sage and onion stuffing, 1033 
Salmon, boiled, 922 

steak, 902 
maitre d' hotel, 897 

canned. 975 

salt, 974 
Sauce, 

apple for meats, 1031 

Andalusian, 938 

bechamel, 932 

Bordelaise, 910 

bread, brown, 1062 
English, white, 1062 

brown oyster, 854 

butter, 916 and 917 

caper, 928 

celery, brown, 1059 
white, J 092 

champ'ne for roast ham 1040 

chestnut, 1053 
puree, 1054 

chutney, 909 

cranberry, 1047 

cream, plain, 931 

egg, 936 

fennel, 924 

giblet, 1069 

Hollandaise, 899 

lobster, 934 

maitre d' hotel, 880 
hot, 925 

mint for lamb, 1027 

mustard, 973 

oyster, 852 

parsley, 919. 

pickle, 1082 

piquant, 1084 and 1105 

Robert, 908 

royal, 887 

shrimp, 913 

tartar, 908 and 904 

tomato, 120 



wine for fish, etc., 955 
Sauerkraut, 1095 

with pork, 1094 
Sausage, good pork, 1012 
Sauteed oysters without eggs, 828 

potatoes, 878 
Scallops, to cook, 861 

in batter, 860 
Scalloped oysters, 834 

clams, 838 
Scrambled eggs, 1141 
Sea bass, baked, 984 
Shad, broUed, 884 

roe, fried, 885 
boiled, 926 
Sheephead, fish, 933 
Shirred eggs, 1143 
Smelts, breaded, 983 

au beurre noir, 892 
Smoked haddock, 976 

herring, 977 

white fish, 979 
Snipe and plover, 1134 
Soft-shell crabs, boiled, 806 

fried, 807 
Soup, oyster, 819 

clam, 822 
chowder, 823 
Soles, 967 
Spanish beefsteak, 1109 

omelet, 1152 

mackerel, 886 
Speckled trout, 952 
Spinach, to cook, 1036 
Spring chickens. 1057 

Maryland style. 1063 
Squirrel broiled, 1136 
Steak, catfish, 906 

haUbut, 904 

salmon, 897 and 902 

fish, stewed, 935 

trout, 898 and 903 

restaurant tenderloin, 990 

porterhouse, 988 
Steamed oysters, 824 
Stewed terrapin, 805 
Striped bass, 883 
Stuffed oysters, 813 
Stuffing for fish, 942 and 956 

oyster, 855 

common for chickens, 1060 

sage and onion, 1033 

chestnut, 1052 
Sturgeon, 968 
Sucking pig, roast» 1032 



Sweet omelet, 1155 

Teal duck, .1137 and 1074 
Terrapin, to dress, 803 
baked in shell, 804 
stewed, 805 
Tenderloin steak, 990 
Tomato omelet, 1153 

sauce, 1120 
Tongue, boiled, 1083 

corned, 1085 
Trout, a la Genevoise, 969 
brook, boned, 866 

or speckled, fried. 869 
breaded, 871 
with bacon, 865 
a la Colbert, 879 
Mackinaw, 874 
fried in eggs, 875 
boiled, 920 
speckled, fine herbs, 952 
broiled, 877 
potted, 896 
Tripe, broiled, 1128 
Truffled oysters, 812 
Turbot, 965 
Tiu-keys, 1045 

boiled oyster sauce, 1088 
roast, cranberry, 1046 
stuffed, 1049 
brown oyster, 1050 
stuffed with oysters, 1051 

chestnuts, 1052 
wild, roast, 1055 
Turtle, 1017 

Veal roast, 1028 

with dresshig, 1029 

side of to cut. 996 

tenderloins, 997 
Venison, 1006 

roast, 1043 

baked in paste, 1042 

l¥hite fish, boiled, 930 

broiled, 881 

fillets, 947 

salt, 972 
Wild goose and brant, 1067 
roast, 1068 

ducks, 1071 and 1075 

turkey, 1055 
Wine sauce for fish, 955 

Young ducks with peas, 106(> 



BOOK OF SOUPS AND ENTREES. 



Amber olear soup, 1256 
Andalusian soup, 1274 
Antelope steak saute, 124^ 
Apple Miters with sauce, 1202 
Artichokes in gravy, 1290 
Asparagus soup, 1222. 

Backbone stew, egg dumplings, 

1230 
Baked celery and cheese, 1206 

com custard, 1231 

fish and cheese, 1285 
Barley soup, 1278 
Beef, a la mode, 1234 

chipped, in butter, 1244. 

ribs with Yorkshire pudding, 

1204 

small fillets in glaze, 1199 

stew with potatoes, 1280 
Blanquette of lamb, 1284 

of sweetbreads and oysters, 

1185 
Boston clam chowder, 1251 
Bouillon or beef broth, 1242 
Brains in brown butter, 1264 

in patties, 1273 
Braised fillet of beef, 1216 

roll of veal, 1252 
Braising, what it means, 1214. 
Breaded calf's head, tomato 

sauce, 1279 

cutlets, 1188 

ribs of lamb, 1267 
Calf's head fried. 1279 

head in omelet, 1223 

liver, larded, crisped onions, 

1283 
Calves' brains sauteed, with 

olives, 1264 
Celery and cheese baked, 1206 

cream soup, 1261 

stewed in cream, 1211 
Chicken, breast of, in form, 1183 

brdth, 1216 

cutlets with vegetables, 1217 

gumbo soup, 1238 

pie, American style, 1193 

pies, small, French, 1224 
Chipped beef in butter, 1244 
Clear soups, 1175 

amber, or consomme, 1256 

turtle soup, 1187 
Coney Island chowder, 1208 
Corn custard, baked, 1232 

fried, or mock oysters, 1246 

hulled, or home-made hom- 
iny, 1237 
Corned pork tenderloins, 1275 

tongues with brocoli, 1272 
Cream fritters, 1186 

of asparagus, 1222 

of celery, 1261 

of potatoes, 1270 
Croquettes of sweetbreads, 1260 
Curried tripe, Italian, 1201 

veal with rice, 1291 
I>evilled beefsteak, 1111 

ham, old style, 1239 
Devils, what they are, 1237 
Egg dumplings for stews, 1230 
Egg plant fried, plain, 1200 
Eggs poached, in sauce, 1212 
Entrees, common sense about, 

1162 

rule of, 1170 

sw^eet, use of, 1168 

vegetable, or garnishes, 1169 
Espagnole or brown sauce, 1172 



Farina cake with jelly, 1213 
Fillet of beef, braised, 1216 

larded, with mushrooms, 

1182 
Fish dinner bill of fare, 985 

fondue or baked with cheese, 

1285 

soup, mulllgatawney, 1282 
French cream soup, 1287 

pancakes with jelly, 1265 

toast, wine sauce, 1241b 
Fricandeau of minced veal, 1209 
Fricasseed oysters in border, 

1241a 
Frica^fsee of veal and mushrooms, 

1258 
Fricassees, what they are, 1250 
Fritters, apple, 1202 

bell, 278 

com mock oysters, 1246 

cream, 1186 

fruit, 253 

orange wine sauce, 1292 

parsnip, 1259 

peach, sabayon sauce, 1207 

pineapple, with curacoa, 1227 

plain, 255 

potato, French, 280 

queen or Boston puff, 274 

Spanish puff, 273 

Game dinner bill of fare, page 

361 
Geese livers in cases, 1195 
Gumbo soup, 1238 

Hulled com and milk, 1237 

Irish stew, 1280 

Kidneys and ham, minced, 1245 

Ijamb, blanquette of, 1284 

cutlets with vegetables, 1188 
fries sauteed in butter, 1194 
hearts, Taulausaine, 1289 
stew with potatoes, 1253 
tongues with brocoli, 1272 

Larded fillet of beef, with mush- 
rooms, 1182 
liver, crisped onions, 1283 
sweetbreads with peas, 1205 

IVIacaronl and cheese, American, 

1241 
French, 1225 

and tomatoes, Italian, 1218 
in cream, 1269 
Minced kidneys and ham, 1245 
turkey with poached eggs, 

1281 
Mushrooms stewed, in cron- 

stades, 1184 
Mutton chops, breaded , tomatoes 

1235 
loin of, stuffed, 1198 
shoulder rolled, braised, 1257 

Ihiions crisped, garnish, 1283 

stuffed, baked. 1277 
Orange fritters, 1292 
Ox-taUsoup, 1192 

Parsnip, fritters, 1259 
Patties, calves' brains, 1273 

chicken, 1224 

salmon, 1254 

turkey, 1286 
Peaches with rice, 1196 
Peach fritters, 1207 
Pie, chicken, American, 1193 

pigeon or o'^uab, 1288 



veal and oyster, 1263 

veal pot- pie, 1276 
Pigeons potted, with jelly, 1189 
Pigeon pie, 1288 
Pigs feet, viniagrette, 1236 

head stewed, Russian sauce, 

1268 
Poached eggs, Andalusian, 1212 
Pork backbones or chine, stewed, 

1230 

tenderloins corned, glazed, 

with cabbage, 1210 1275 

Potato cream soup, 1270 
Potting, what it means, 1248 
Pumpkin bread, for lunch, 1232 

Quail, minced, or chaudpaid, 

1191 
Rabbits, smothered, country 

style, 1229 
stewed, soubise sauce, 1240 
Bice croQuettes, sabayon, 1220 

peaches, with, 1196 
Boll of veal, braised, 1252 

!ialmis, what they are, 1249 

Salmon patties, 1254 

Saute of young turkey, 1262 

Sautes, what they are, 1247 

Scotch broth, 1278 

Soups, clear, or consommes, 1175 

fuU, 1176 
Soup, amber clear, 1256 

Andalusian, 1274 

bouillon or beef broth, 1242 

chicken, 1215 

clam chowder, Boston, 1251 

clam chowder, Coney Island, 

clam, cream, 822 1208 

cream of asparagus, 1222 

cream, French, 1287 

cream of chicken, 1203 

cream of potatoes, 12t0 

fish mulllgatawney, 1282 

gumbo, 1238 

making, in general, 1174 

ox-tail, 1192 

oyst,er, 819 

potato cream, 1270 

Scotch mutton broth, 1278 

Spring or Printaniere, 1197 

stock, making, 1179 

tomato gumbo, 1266 

turtle, 1181 
. vegetable, 1228 
Spaghetti and tomatoes, 1218 

in ^Team, 1269 
Spareribs baked or broiled, 

Bobert, 1271 
Squab or pigeon pie, 1288 
Stuffed onions, 1277 

tomatoes, 1190 
Supreme of sweetbreads, 1226 
Supremes, what they are, 1221 
Sweetbreads, croquettes of, 1260 

larded, with peas, 1205 

Terrapin in cases, Maryland, 
in shell. 804 1219 

stewed, 805 

Tripe curried, Italian, 1201 

Turkey minced, poached eggs, 
patties, 1286 1281 

Turkey poult, saute, 1262 

Veal and oyster pie, 1263 

currj' with rice, 1291 

pot-pie, country style, 1276 
Yeloute or white sauc^, 1173 



INDEX OF FRENCH TERMS. 



Antelope, Saute of, aux Pommes, Fran caise, 1243 
Artlcho es (fon^s de artichauts) a rEspagnole, 

1290 
Beef is BoBuf , 989 

a la mode, 1234 

dried, an beurre, 1244 

petite filets de, en demi-glace, 1199 

stew a rirlandaise, 1280 

filet de, piqu^, aux champignons, 1182 

filet de, braie^, 1216 

entrecote a I'Anglaise, 1019 

aTecarlate, 1078 

a la jardiniere, 1077 

grenadine of, a la diable, 1111 

emtnce de, a la Hamburg, 1115 
Beefsteak is Bifteck, 1099 

aux mousserous, a l' Anglaise, 1107 

aux pommes Francaise, 1103 

a la maitre d'hotel, 1104 

a la Milanaise, 1113 

an naturel, 1100 

alamenagere, 1101 

a la sauce piquante, 1106 

a la Creole, 1109 

aux champignons, 1106 

aurognons, 1112 

aux huitres, 1114 

a la sauce tomate, 1110 
Brains (cervelle deveau) a la Milanaise, 1264 

en petita pates, 1273 
Calf's head is Tete de veau, 1279 

a la Venitienno, 1279 

a la Gharteuse, 1223 
Celery is Celeri, sauce, 1059 

and cheese a la Piemontaise, 1206 

a la Bechamel, 1211 
€lams, a la paulette, 861 

Duck is Canard, young duck is caneton, 1066 
Caneton a I'Anglaise, 1066 

au cresson, a la Francaise, 1072 

Pish is Poisson, page 335 

rechauffe of, a la Chartreuse, 1285 

bisque of, a Tlndienne, 1282 

Truites, petites, bard^s, 865 and 866 

Trout fried, aux pommes Saratoga - 

Trout, a la cheveSiere, 871 

Truite du lac, a I'ltallenne, 875 

Trout broiled, a la Colbert, 879 

Smelts sautes, au buerre, 892 

Salmon steak broiled, a I'Anglaise 897 

Salmon or trout, a la Hollandaise, 898 

Pompano grill^e, a la tartare, 902 

Bass rag^e, fillets of, a la maitre d'hotel, 883 

Red snapper boiled, sauce aux cresettes, 912 

Bock Bass, a la Printamere, 929 

Whitefish, a la Bechamel, 930 

Mackerel boiled, a I'Anglaise 

Sheephead boiled, sauce homard, 933 

Bed Grouper, a I'Andalouse, 937 

Carp baked, a I'Americaine, 939 

Carp baked, a I'Espagnole, 941 

Salmon trout baked au gratin, 945 

Whitefish, fillets of, a la Mackinac. 947 



Spanish mackerel, farcis aux pommes ero« 

quettes, 949 
Trout baked, aux fines herbes, 952 
Bluefish baked, a la Bordelaise, 954 
Codfish baked, a I'Ostende, 9St8 
Muskallonge or pike, a la Chambord, 960 
Bed drum, a la Creole, 963 
Whitefish a la Point Shirley, 964 
Soles, fillets of, a I'Anglaise, 967 
Salmon trout, a la Oenevoise, 969 
Sea Bass, a la Port Boyal, 984 

Fowl is Volaille, chickens are poulets and 

poulardea. 
Chicken, boudins of, a la Bichelieu, 1183 

cutlets of, a la Julienne, 1217 

pie a I'Americaine, 1193 

a la Marengo, 1247 

a la Maryland, 1063 

a* la crapaudine, 1132 

Bouchees de volaille, 1224 
Fritters are Beignets, 255 
. Beignets de bouillie, 1186 

de mais, 1246 

de pommes, 1202 

al'ananas, 1227 

aux fruits, 253 

a I'orange, au vin, 1292 

de peches, au sabayon, 1207 

Boufiles, 247 

soufiQes a la vanille, 275 

de pommes de terre, 280 

de pavais, 1259 

aux huitres, 858 
Game is Gibier; game dhmer, page 361 

Bear is Ours; young bear is ourson, 1007 

gigot (leg) de ourson, 1007 
Deer is Daim; cotelettes de, same as 1243 
Prairie hen is Poule de prairie. 
Quail is Caille; sur canape, 1133 

chaudfroid of, 1191 

galantine en bellevue, 802 
Babbit is Lapereau; gritt^, 1135 

alafermiere, 1229 

alaSoubise, 1240 
Teal duck ts Sarcelle; rotl, 1074 
Venison is Yenaison and Chevreull. 

Selle (saddle) de, 1043 
Goose is Oie; young goose is oison, 1064 

Ham is Jambon, grille, 1124 
roast aux epinards, 1035 
a la diable, 1239 
a la Westphallenne, 1039 

£iamb is Agneau, 1026 

blanouette of, a la Nantaise, 1284 

cutlets a la Printaniere, 1188 

fries, sautes au buerre noir, 1194 

hearts, a la Toulouse, 1289 

haricot of, a la Jardiniere, 1253 

tongues, a I'Allemande, 1272 

cutlets, aux petits pois, 1121 

outlets, a la marechale, 1235 

epigramme of, a la chevallere, 1767 
Liver and bacon saute of, 1247 



larded, -a la Lyonnaise, 1283 

Foiee-gras en caisses, a la Bordelaise, 1195 

Pain de foies de paulardes, 802 
Lobster is Homard, 746 

Homard, bulsson de, 746 

Honiard, mayonnaise de, 746 
mutton is Mouton, 999 

gigot (leg) de sauce capres, 1081 

cutlets en canapes, 1118 

rouleau of brais^, a la Bretonne 1267 
Oysters are Huitres, page 350 

Groustades of, a la Montglas, 850 

alabrochette, 851 

Kromesliies of, a la Busse, 857 

a la creme, 815 

farcies auz truffes, 812 

en caisses, 847 

a la Milanaise, 814 

Omelette aux huitres, 833 

Vofe-av-vent gamis aux huitres, 846 

Bouchees aux huitres, 846 

Petite pates aux huitres, 845 

Huitres sur coquille, 837 

Huitres au graten, 834 

Salade de huitres. 

Huitres en aspic. 
Petoncles (Scallops) a la MarseillaiBe» 860 
Pork is Pore, 1010 

chine of, a la fermiere, 1230 

cochon de lait (sucking pig) , 1032 

cutlets, a la bourgeois, 1122 

scallops of, a la Flamande 

fillets of, a Tecarlate, 1275 

Pigs head, a la Busse, 1268 
feet, a la vinlagrette, 1236 

Salad is Salade; dressing, 707 
Salade de chou-fleur, 699 

celeri, 706 

concombres, 772 

escarole 768 

laitue, 767 

ponunes, 723, 730 

harengs, 726 

legumes, 701 

crevettes, 733 

macedoine, 724 

a la Busse, 745 

a la HoUandaise, 725 

a I'ltaUenne, 744 

a la jardiniere, 740 
Mayonnaise, sauce a la, 693 
Mayonnaise de homard, 746 

de volaille, 759 

de poisson, 750 

de crevettes, 733 
Qoups thick or full are Potages, 1176 



Potage a TAndalouse, 1274 
creme d'asperges, 1222 
a la creme, 1287 
creme de volaille, 1203 
a la reine. 1203 
Parmentier, 1270 
a rindienne, 1282 
gumbo a la Creole, 1238 
a la fermiere, 1228 
aux quens de boeuf, 1192 
huitres a la creme, 819 
huitres a la Marseillaise, 820 
huitres a VOstende, 821 
a I'Ecossaise, 1278 
d'orge, (barley soup) 1278 
gumbo aux tomates, 1266 
tortue verte, 1181 
tortue claire, 1187 
bouillon or beef broth, 1242 
Soups, clear broths are Consommes, 1266 
Consooom clalr, 1256 

de volaille, or of chicken, 1215 
•Printaniere, 1197 
paysanne, 1233 
au riz (with rice), 1175 
Imperial (with custard shapes) 117S 
royal (same as imperial) 1175 
aux pates d'ltalie (alphabet maco« 

roni) 1175 
aux petite pois, (with green peas) 1175i 
au chou-fleur, (with cauliflower) 117f. 
au vermicelli, 1175 
Spaghetti, a la Palermetane, 1218 

a la Bechamel, 1269 
Sweetbreads are Bis de veau, 1205 
supreme of, aux truffes, 1226 
croquettes of, a la Perigneux, 1260 
piqu^, aux petite pois, 1205 
and oysters, a la Cherbourg, 1 185 

Turicey is Dinde, young turkey is dlndonneau.. 
aux marrons, 1052 
emince of, aux ceufs poohes, 1281 
aux huitres, 1051 
a r Anglaise, 1049 
a I'Americaine, 1046 
Dindon sauvage roti, 1055 
Petits pates de valaille, 1286 
Dindonneaux sautte, 1262 

Teal is Veau, 1028 

and oyster pie a TAnglaise, 1263 
curry with rice, a Tlndlenne, 1291 
pie a la paysanne, 1276 - 
rouleau of, brais^ sauce au vln, 1252 
fricassee of, a la Toulouse, 1258 
fricandeau of, a laBourgeoise, 1209 



WHITEHEAD'S 

HOTEL COOK BOOKS. 



No. I. -''THE AMERICAN PASTRY COOK." 

PRICE. POSTPAID. S2.00. 

EMBRACES THE FOLLOWING: 

PART FIRST— The Hotel Book of Fine Pastries, Ices, Pies, Patties, Cakes, Creams, Custards, Char- 
lottes, Jellies and Sweet Biitrements in Variety. 

PART SECOND— The Hotel Book of Pudding^s, Souffles and Merineues. A handY_ColIection of Valuable 
Recipes, oriitrlnal. selected and perfected for use in I' 
Grade. 



Recipes, original, selected and perfected for use in Hotels and Eating Houses of every 



PART THIRD— The Hotel Book of Breads and Cakes; French, Vienna, Parker House, and other Rolls, 

Muffins, Waffles, Tea Cnkes; Slock Yeast and Ferment ; Yea^t raised Cakes, etc., etc., 

as made in the best hotels. 
PART FOURTH— The Hotel Book of Salads and Cold Dishes, Salad Dressinfrs, with and without oil ; 

Salads of all kinds, how to make and how to serve them; Boned Fowls, Galantines, 

Aspics etc., etc. 

The above parts are all comprised in the ''American Pastry Cook," together 
Yvith a large amount of valuable miscellaneous culinary matter. 



No. 2.-''HOTEL MEAT COOKING." 

PRICE. POSTPAID. S2.00. 

EMBRACES THE FOLLOWING: 

PART FIRST— The Hotel, Fish and Oyster Book; Showing all the best methods of Cooking Oysters 

and Fish, for Restaurant and Hotel Service, together with the appropriate Saucea 

and Vegetables. 
PART SBCOND^How to Cut Meats, and Roast, Boil and Broil. The entire trade of the Hotel Meat 

Cutter, RoaKter and Broiler, including *'Short Orders," Omelets, etc. 
PART THIRD— 1 he Hotel Books of Soups and Entrees, comprising specimens of French, English and 

American Menus^ with translations and comments. Showing how to make up Hotel 

Bills of Fare, with all the different varieties of Soups and Consommes in proper rotation, ■ 

and a new set of entrees or "made dishes*' for every day. 
PART FOURTH— Creole Cookery and Winter Resort Specialties. 
PART nPTH— Cook's Scrap Book— A Collection of Culinary Stories, Poems, Stray Recipes etc., etc. 

Index of French Terms, an explanation and translation of all the French terms used in 

the Book, alphabetically arranged. 

^p* The above parts are all comprised in "Hotel Meat Cooking,^' together 
with a large and varied selection of matter pertaining to this part of the culinary art. 



No. 3.-''WHITEHEAD'8 FAMILY COOK BOOK." 

PRICE. POSTPAID. S1.60. 

A PROFESSIONAL COOK'S BOOK FOR HOUSEHOLD USE. 

Consisting of a series oi Menus for everj-day meals, and for private entertainments, 
with minute instructions for making every article named. 



The Recipes in all these books are properly headed, numbered and indexed, for 
hiandy reference. 

The author of this series of Hotel Cook Books is a professional Cook of Thirty 
Years' Experience, and every recipe has been tried and practically proved. 

The above books will be sent postpaid on receipt of price : *< American Pastry 
Cook," $3.00; "Hotel Meat Cooking/' $2.00; <«Family Cook Book," $i.5a 

Adress all orders to 

Jessup IVhitehead & Co,, 

PUBUSHBRS OF HOTEL COOK BOOKS, 

....CHICAQO, ILL 



L 



NO. 4. 

The Fmaus California Book of COOKINa, STEWARDINa, 
CATERINa and HOTEL lEEPINa, callod 

Cooking: for Profit 

and eight weeks at a Summer Resort. 

Two Books In One. About 400 Pages. 

A Remarkable Volame which shows how lloaey is made by Boardlgir 

People and What It Costs to Live Well. 



. OOMXEMXS: 

PART PIRST^-Some Articles for the Show Case. The Lunch Counter. Restaarant Breakfasts, Lunches 
and Dinners. Hotel Breakfasts, Dinners and Suppers. Oyster 'and Fish House Dishes. The Ice 
Cream Saloon. Fine ^dcery Lunch. Qualcer Dairy Lunch. Confectionery Goods, Homemade 
Beers, etc. 

PART SBCOND-Eight Weeks at a Summer Resort. A Diary, Our daily Bill of Fare and what it cosit. 
A Party Supper for Forty Cents per Plate. The Art of Charging Enough. A School Commence- 
ment Supper. Question of How Many Fires. Seven Fires fprjlfly persons vs. one Fire for fifty. 
The Round of Beef for Steak. A Mpat piock and Utensils. Bill of Groceries. A Month* s Sufiply 
for a Summer Boarding House^ with Prices. A Refrigerator Wanted. Ahoui keeping Provisions; 
Restaurant Patterns. A Good Hotel Refrigerator. ukU of Ice to supply it. Shall we have a Bill of 
Pare? Reasons why : a Blank Form. Is Fish Cheaper than Meat? 1 rouble with the CofiEec. How to 
Scrub the Kitchen. Trouble with Steam Chest and VeeeUbles. Trouble with the Oatmeal. Build- 
ing a House with Bread Crusts. Puddings without Eggs. A Pastry and Store Room Necessary. 
A Board on a Barrel. First Bill of Fare. Trouble with Sour Meats. Trouble with the Ice Cream . 
The Landlord's Birthday Supper. Showing how rich andjancy Cakes were made and iced and orna- 
mented without using Fggs. The Landlady's Birthday Supper. Trouble in Planning Dinners. 
Ti orb*' «vith Captain Johnson. Trouble In Serving Meals. Trouble with the Manager, breakfasts 
am '• (ijicrs for Six Cents per Plate. Hotel Dinners for Ten Cents per Plate. Hotel Dinners for 
Seventeen Cents per Plate. Supper for Forty for Eight Cents per Plate. Breakfast for Forty for 
Nine Cents per Plate. An Expensive Wedding Breakfast, /or the Colonel and the Banker* s Daughter. 
Four Thousand Meals. Review. Groceries for 4,000. Meat, Fish and Poultry for 4,000. Flour, 
Sugar and Coffee for 4,000. Butter and Eggs for 4,ooa Potatoes^ Fresh Vj^etables and Fruits for 
4,00a Canned Fruits and Vegetables for 4,00a Milk and Cream for 4,opa Total Cost of Provisions 
for 4,000. How to Save Twenty Dollars per Week. How Much we EaL How Much we Drink. 
How Much to Serve. Work and Wages. Laundry Work. Fuel, Light and Ice. Total Co&t of 
Board. How Much Profit? How Many Cooks to How Many People? Boarding the Employees. 
Boarding Children. Meals for Ten or Fifteen Cents. Country Board at Five Dollars. If— a Bundle 
of Suppositions. Keeping Clean Side Towels. How Many Fires— Again. A Proposal to Rent for 
next Season. Conclusion. • 

THE CONTENTS ALSO INCLUDE: 

Oae Handrcd Different BIlis of Pare, of Actual Meals, all with New Dishes; the Amount and the Cost 

per Head. 
EleveB Huildred Redpea. All live matter that every Cook needs— both by Weight and by Cup and 

Spoon Measure. 
i^ DicCioiuiry of Coolcery, Comprised in the Explanations of Terms and General Information contained 

in the Directions. 
Artistic Coolcery. Instructions in Ornamentation, with Illustrations, and-Notes on the London Cookery 

BxhibiUon of 1885. 

It is thoroughly enelytlcal, practical, readable, and the first book of the princlplea of tba 
•yatematlc hotel-keeping. 

PRICE. POSTPAID. S3.00. 

Address: 

Jessup IVhitehead & Ca, 

PUBLISHERS OF HOTEL COOK HOf JM^ 

../jiiCAQO, ill; 



NUMBER 6, 



The STEWARD'S Handbook 

AND GUIDE TO PARTY CATERING. 

BY JE88UP WHITEHEAD. 



PRICE, POSTPAID, •8.00. 

SMBRACX8 THB FOLLOWQfG: 

PART FIRST— HOTEL STE WARDING. Showing the Internal Workings of 
the Ameiican System of Hotel Keeping. The Steward's Duties in 
Detail, and In Relation to Other Heads of Departments. Steward's 
Storekeeping, Steward's Bookkeeping, and Management of Help. Also, 
Composition of BiUs of Fare, the Reasons Why, and Nu:>ierous Illus- 
trative Menus of Meals on the American Plan. 

PART SECOND— RESTAURANT STE WARDING. Co;nprislng a Survey of 
Various Styles of Restaurants and their Methods, Club Stewarding and 
Catering, Public Party Catering, Ball Suppers, Base Ball Lunches, Hotel 
Banquets, etc. ; How to Prepare and How to Serve Them, with Numer- 
ous Pattern Bills of Fare Carried Out to Quantities, Cost and Price per 
' Head. 

PART THIRD — COMPRISING CATERING FOR PRIVATE PARTIES. A 

Guide to Party Catering. Wedding Breakfasts, Fantasies of Party 
Givers, Model Small Menus, and Noteworthy Suppers, with Prices 
y Charged. Also, Catering on a Grand Scale. Original and Selected 

Examples of Mammoth Catering Operations, Showing the Systems 
Followed by the Largest Catering Establishments in the World. Also, 
a Disquisition on Head Waiters and their Troops. 

PART FOURTH— WHITEHEAD'S DICTIONARY OF DISHES, Culinary 
Terms and Various Information Pertaining to the Steward's Depart* 
tnent, being the Essence of all Cook Books, Telling in Brief what all 
Dishes and Sauces are or what they should Look Like. What Materials 
are Needed for and what They are. How to Use to Advantage all Sorts 
of Abundant Provisions, or How to Keep Them. Comprising, also, a 
Valuable Collection of Restaurant Specialties, Distinctive National 
Cookery, Remarks on Adulterations, and How to Detect Them, Treat- 
ment and Service of Wine, and a Fund of Curious and Useful Informa- 
tion in Dictionary Form, for Stewards, Caterers, Chefs, Bakers, and all 
Hotel and Restaurant Keepers. 

PART FIFTH— HOW TO FOLD NAPKIN& Abundantly Illustrated with 
many Handsome Styles and Diagrams which Show how It is Done. 

Address all Orders to 

Jessup IVhitehead & Co., 

PUBLIGHERS OF HOTeL COOK BOOKS, 

CHICAGO, VUU 



WHITEHEAD'S 
Profoiilonai Cookory BookSt 

No. l.-THE AMERICAN PASTRY. COOK. A 

* book of perfected Rrcelitts. fur niiikiiiff a' 
sorts of articles required f>t the Hoi el Pastry 
Cook, Baker iindC>niectioner. Clt«lh, te.i>'> 

No. 8.-H0TEL MEAT COOKIMO. Compri^inK 
Hotel and Restaurant Fish and Oyster Cook- 
ing. How to Cut Meats, and Soups, Entrees 
and Bills of Fare* Cloth, 12 Oa 

No. 8.-WMITEHEAD'8 FAMILY COOK BOOK. 
Hiffh-diiss cookery for families and party* 
givers, including Book of Breads and Cakes. 

Cloth, ii.sa 

N0.4.-COONINO FOR PROFIT and Eight Weeks 
at a Snminer Resort. A nvw American Cook 
Book adapted for the use of all who. serve 
meals for a price. Cloth, t8.00. 

No. 6.-TNE STEWARD'S HANDBOOK and Guide 
to Party Catering, Mewardingr, Bills of Fare, 
and a DictwMary of Dishex u nd Culinary Terms 
and Specialties. Clotli, 18.00. 

All books sent postpaia on receipt of price. 

Jessup Whitehead ii^ Co* 

PubUshers of Hotel Cook Book* 
Chicago^ III, 



■ ■ ■« ■ "^^^^^r^n^^M^i* N viv^pnvHvvm^^wi^VHmwip'v^ iviffl 4" ^^ 



f 




f 



*****V' . ,--' 



SUPPLIED BY 

THE SEVEN BOOKHUNTERS 

OLD CHELSEA STATION, BOX 22 
NEW YORK II. N, Y. 



