7£ 

SlSl 



OTER 
CRiXBC 




C^PK'B^K' 



n/JR6/lRET 

CTTER 
CRECBC 





C9PK' B9? K 



THE LIBRARY OF 
CONGRESS, 

Two Copies Reciivso 

MAR. 25 1901 

Copyright entrz 
./&,'<? Of 
CLASS GLytXo. N». 

COPY B. 



Copyrighted, 1901. 



RECIPES. 



"old and new, 
tried and true." 



COMPILED BY 

Anna K. Sackett 

AND 

Fannie F. Mills. 



CHICAGO : 

Libby & Sherwood Printing Co. 
1901. 



4 





SOUPS. 

Italian Soup. 

^2 lb. meat chopped fine, 2 small onions cut up fine, 1 
teaspoon butter, y 2 can tomatoes, season with salt and pepper. 
Cook slowly for an hour in a sauce pan. In another dish 
cook tender y 2 lb. macaroni in salted water. When serving 
put into the dish first a layer of the meat, then one of 
macaroni sprinkled with grated cheese, then meat, macaroni, 
cheese. 

Scotch Broth. 

2 lbs. neck of mutton cut in pieces, cover with 2 qts. of 
water. Simmer 1 hour. Add a carrot cut in dice, 1 small 
onion sliced, y small cabbage shredded, 1 small turnip. 
Simmer another hour. Take bones and meat from kettle, 
cut meat in small dice, and return to the soup, pepper and 
salt. Add 1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

Queen Victoria Soup. 

3 lbs. of veal covered with 3 qts. cold water. Cook until 
this is reduced to 3 pts. stock, y lb. pearl Barley. Simmer in 
the stock iy hours. Take from the stock 2 /i of the barley, 
rub it through a sieve, return it to the stock. ^ pint of 
cream. Salt and pepper to taste. This is very rich and 
nutritious. 



—5— 



BREADS. 

Steamed Brown Bread. 

1 cup flour, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup sour milk, 1 cup sweet 
milk, 1 teaspoon soda, salt. Steam 3 hours. 

Crackers. 

Pint bowl full of bread dough. When ready to put into 
the pans, spread out and cover with a heaping tablespoonful 
of lard. Then work flour into this until like putty. Roll 
moderately thick, cut out and bake in quick oven. 

Short Cake. 

1 pt. flour, small piece butter, 3 heaping teaspoons 
baking powder, cup nearly full of water. Mix and spread on 
greased tins without rolling. Split and butter and put on 
fruit. 

Spanish Bun. 

1 pt. granulated sugar, 1 pt. flour, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 
cup butter, 4 eggs all but the whites of 2, which are kept for 
the frosting, two teaspoons baking powder, 1 tablespoon 
ground cloves, 1 tablespoon cinnamon. Bake in one layer 
like ginger bread. Make thin frosting for top if liked. 



?&mm"z 



m 



FOR BREAKFAST. 

Pocket Book Rolls. 

1 pint milk, >£ cake yeast, small tablespoon butter and 
the same of lard. Warm the milk and set in sponge, let rise, 
then mix as soft as possible and rise again, then roll without 
mixing or adding flour. Cut out and place a small piece of 
butter under one side, fold over and bake. 

Muffins. 

1 egg beaten light, 2 cups milk, small piece of butter 
melted. Ij4 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder added last. 
Bake in quick oven. 

Corn Bread. 

1 pt. sour milk, 1 egg, butter the size of an egg, table- 
spoon of flour, little salt, 1 small teaspoon soda, 2 tablespoons 
sugar, corn meal for thin batter. 

Graham Gems. 

y 2 pt. flour, ^ pt. and a gill of cold water, little salt. 
Beat batter very light, heat gem pans hot and butter well. 
Bake in quick oven. 

Pop-overs. 

Beat 2 eggs without separating, add 1 cup milk. Put 1 
cup flour into another bowl, add to it gradually the eggs and 
milk. Beat until smooth, then strain through ordinary gravy 
strainer. Put at once into hot greased muffin cups. Bake in 
quick oven 45 minutes. 

Egg Bread. 

1 cup boiled rice, 1 pt. milk, % cup corn meal, butter size 
of an egg, 3 eggs, salt. Bake in a buttered dish. This is a 
good breakfast dish. 

Breakfast Dish. 

1 cup bread crumbs, three eggs beaten separately, 1 cup 
of milk, pepper, salt, and a little butter. Bake in a dish in 
quick oven. 

—7— 



FOR LUNCHEON. 
Cheese Fondue. 

Into a baking dish put buttered pieces of bread, cover 
thickly with grated cheese, season with salt, cayenne pepper 
and a dash of paprica, another layer of bread and cheese, 
until the dish is filled, using a half pound of cheese. Pour 
over the whole one cup of milk, let stand fifteen minutes. 
Beat one egg and add another cup of milk, mix egg and milk 
together. Pour this into the mixture and bake twenty minutes. 
Put baking dish in a pan of water. Serve as a side dish or 
for luncheon. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

}4 pint milk or cream, 1 large tablespoon butter, 2 large 
tablespoons flour, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 1 teaspoon 
onion juice, 1 teaspoon salt, cayenne pepper or paprica to taste. 

Creamed Blue Points. 

Detach the oysters from shell, pour over this a rich white 
sauce, cover top with finest pulled bread crumbs, little piece of 
butter in middle, and brown in oven. Serve six on a plate. 
Eat with oyster fork. 

Friccasseed Oysters. 

Carefully drain and remove all bits of shell from 1 qt. 
select oysters, dot with butter, salt and pepper, put in a 
dripping pan and bake about 20 minutes in moderate oven. 
Stir in 1 cup of cream, in which dissolve a teaspoonful corn 
starch. L,et simmer for a few minutes. Pour over toast and 
serve hot. Very fine. 

White Sauce. 

1 pint milk; place in saucepan over water. Blend 1 table- 
spoonful butter and 2 or 3 teaspoonsful corn starch, together 
add to milk, stirring to keep smooth. Little salt and pepper 
to taste. 



Salad Dressing. 

Yolk of 1 egg, 1 teaspoon made mustard, 1 teaspoon 
sugar and 5 of vinegar. Little butter, salt and Cayenne 
pepper. Cook until thick, stirring constantly. When cold 
add }4 cup of whipped cream. 

Cabbage Dressing. 

2 eggs, y 2 cup sweet or sour cream, 2 tablespoons sugar 
and 4 of vinegar, 1 teaspoon mustard, little pepper, paprica, 
and salt. Place in a pan of hot water on the stove, stirring 
all the while to keep smooth. Cream to be added the last 
thing. 

French Dressing. 

To 3 or 4 tablespoons of oil add 1 of vinegar, 1 salt spoon 
of salt, y z of pepper, a dash of paprica. Put salt and pepper 
in a bowl, dissolve with vinegar or lemon juice, add oil 
slowly, and mix well. A little onion juice if liked. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

1 teaspoon dry mustard, 1 salt, % Cayenne pepper, a 
little paprica. Yolks of 2 eggs, 1 pint or more of olive oil. 
Mix the dry materials in a soup plate, add the yolks of eggs, 
beat with a silver fork, adding the oil drop by drop. Thin 
with a little lemon juice, then add oil, more lemon juice, and 
lastly the vinegar. y 2 cup of whipped cream may be added 
before using, if liked. 




—9— 



SALADS. 
Potato Salad. 

8 medium sized potatoes boiled long enough to slice 
without breaking. Slice 1 onion, a fresh long thin cucumber, 
1 pt. of English walnuts broken in small pieces. T / 2 small 
bottle of capers. Slice 2 doz. olives. Mix with Mayonnaise 
dressing and stand in ice box two hours before serving. 
Allow potatoes to get very cold before slicing. 

Salmon Salad. 

1 can salmon or 1 lb. fresh salmon, 1 can kidney beans. 
Boil the- beans before opening the can. Mix together with 
one of the Mayonnaise or salad dressings with cream shown in 
this book. 

Ham Salad. 

1 qt. fine chopped ham, 1 doz. cucumber pickles, 1 doz. 
hard boiled eggs, 6 raw eggs well beaten, V 2 pint of vinegar, 
lump of butter size of egg, celery, pepper, salt to taste, Heat 
and stir all together. 

Water Cress and Apple Salad. 

Have very clean and green water cress and sour apples 
cut into slices. When ready to serve cover with a French 
dressing. 

Apple and English Walnut Salad. 

3 acid apples sliced, 2 cupfuls of broken English walnuts. 
Arrange in nests of lettuce leaves and season with Mayonnaise 
dressing. Add one onion if liked. 

Cheese Salad. 

3 hard boiled eggs, 1 }4 cupfuls of grated cheese, 1 tea- 
spoon mustard, x / 2 saltspoon paprica, x /z teaspoon salt, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of olive oil, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 1 cupfull 
chicken cut into dice. Rub the yolks of the eggs to a paste, 
add gradually the oil, then all the seasoning and lemon juice. 
Mix cheese and chicken lightly with this dressing, and place 
in salad dish. Garnish with the whites of the eggs cut in 
rings, with a few white celery leaves or sprigs of parsley. 
Serve with hot crackers. 

—10— 



Strawberry Salad. 

Very large strawberries, arrange on lettuce leaves, dust 
with powdered sugar, and serve with Mayonnaise dressing. 



SANDWICHES. 

Waukesha cream cheese beaten to a cream. 1 bottle of 
olives chopped fine, 1 tablespoon of brandy, J^ teaspoon of 
Worcestershire Sauce. 

Take potted tongue or ham and mix to a smooth paste, 
with plenty of thick cream. Makes good sandwiches. 

Chop sardines, ham and pickles quite fine. Mix mustard, 
salt, paprica and vinegar, spread between buttered bread. 

To keep lettuce crisp place the roots of the heads in water, 
but do not allow the leaves to rest in it. When ready to serve, 
wash it leaf by leaf in a pan of water, and drop it in a pan of 
ice water. Shake the water from the leaves before serving. 

Bermuda onions sliced, boil up and drain, place in cold 
water until crisp, pour over 1 cup vinegar sweetened and 
serve. 

For Sandwiches. 

Any kind of soft cream cheese mixed with fine chopped 
nuts and seasoned with paprica and salt. Spread between 
brown or white bread. 

Nebuchadnezzar Sandwiches. 

Lettuce leaves or sprigs of water-cress, or any bit of green 
between white or brown bread make dainty sandwiches. 

Stuffed Eggs. 

Boil the eggs hard, when cold remove the shells and cut 
the eggs lengthwise, taking out yolks. Mash the yolks in a 
bowl, add a bit of butter, or salad oil, paprica, vinegar or 
lemon juice and salt. Replace yolks with a spoon, carefully 
put eggs together, wiping them nicely. Serve for supper or 
luncheon. They are fine for picnics. 

—11— 



PIES. 
Lemon Pie. 

4 ozs. of butter if cream is used, or 5 ozs. if milk is used. 
1 lb. of sugar, 1 pt. of cream, grated peel and juice of two 
lemons. Make a cream of butter and sugar, beat in cream 
slowly, then the yolks of 9 eggs beaten very lightly, then the 
whites beaten stiff, lastly the lemons. Bake 45 minutes in a 
moderate oven. This quantity is for three pies if small plates 
are used, with or without an upper crust. 



Mock Mince Pie. 

1 cup of molasses, 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of cider or water, 
Y^ cup of butter. Boil together one minute, add 3 crackers 
rolled fine, 2 chopped apples, ^ pint of seeded raisins chopped, 
2 beaten eggs, all kinds of spice to taste. This quantity for 
2 pies. 

Lemon and Apple Pie. 

3 apples chopped fine, 1 lemon, juice and grated peel, 1 
e gg> 1 CU P su g ar - Butter the size of a walnut. Bake with 
upper crust. 

In baking juicy pies take stiff writing paper, make a roll 
the size of a penny and stand upright in a hole cut in the top 
crust, letting it rest on the bottom crust. The juice runs into 
this funnel instead of the oven. To be removed when pie is 
done. 

Mince Meat. 

4 lbs. meat, 6 lbs. raisins, 8 lbs. apples, 2 lbs. suet, % lb. 
citron, y 2 lb. candied lemon peel and y 2 lb. candied orange 
peel, all chopped very fine. 1 jar pickled peach juice. 1 glass 
each of the following : green grape jelly, gooseberry jelly, 
blackberry jam, raspberry jam, sherry wine, brandy and boiled 
cider. Spices to taste. 

—12— 



PUDDINGS. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

y 2 cup butter, y 2 cup powdered sugar. 2 eggs beaten 
whites and yolks separately, y 2 cup grated chocolate melted, 
% cup milk, 2 5 cup flour, % teaspoon soda dissolved in water. 
Mix as cake. Bake in round ring mould with large opening 
in center. This mould also has cover for steaming. Jno. D. 
Bangs & Co., 276 Wabash Avenue, keeps them. 

Sauce. 

2 squares Baker's chocolate, y. cup of milk, 1 tablespoon 
butter, y 2 cup powdered sugar. Put it in sauce pan and 
simmer until rather thick. Pour this sauce over the cake 
after it is put on the platter and fill the center with whipped 
cream. Garnish top with candied fruit. 

Fig Pudding. 

1 lb. suet chopped fine, 1 lb. wheat flour, y 2 loaf of wheat 
bread chopped or grated, 1 lb. of figs chopped fine, iy 2 cups 
molasses, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cream tartar. Steam 
three hours. 

Foamy Pudding Sauce. 

1 cup butter, iy cups sugar, }4 cup of brandy. Cream 
butter and sugar thoroughly adding brandy gradually. Put 
into same bowl it is to be served in, place this bowl into 
boiling water or top of tea kettle. The sauce must not be 
stirred as it will fall and spoil froth. 

Pudding Sauce. 

Pudding sauce to be made just before serving, and depends 
upon the beating to have it nice. The yolks need three times 
more beating than the whites, and the whites must be stiff. 3 
eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, and to each add y 2 
cup granulated sugar. Stir well, then put together and flavor 
with brandy or vanilla. 

—13— 



NEW ENGLAND PARFAIT. 

For 12 Persons. 
Pour three cupsful of hot milk over the yolks of six 
eggs beaten with one and one half cupfuls of sugar, add one 
level teaspoonful of butter and cook in double boiler until the 
custard coats the spoon. Remove from the fire, beat until 
cold, then add one and one half cupfuls of cream whipped 
stiff and one tablespoonful of vanilla. Pour this mixture into 
a mould and add two teacups of Boston brown bread crumbs 
which have been slightly dried. Cover the mould, rub a little 
lard around the edge of the cover. This will harden and 
prevent salt water from getting in. Pack in ice and salt and 
let it stand about three hours. It requires no stirring except 
once when nearly frozen, to prevent the crumbs from settling. 
When ready to serve turn out on glass dish and surround with 
the six egg whites beaten stiff, with half a cupful of whipped 
cream. This must be sweetened and flavored slightly with 
vanilla. Garnish with candied cherries and pecan nuts. 

Linda Hull Larned, Syracuse, N. Y. 



DAINTY DESSERTS. 

Boil down maple syrup and stir it full of pecan nut meats. 
A ladleful served on French ice cream is delicious. 

French Ice Cream. 

Very plain ice cream with only 1 cup sugar to be served 
with above sauce. 

Boil a cupful of rice in milk and a little salt. Place it on 
a fancy dish in some good form, and fill the top with candied 
fruits. Serve with a plain strawberry sauce. 

Strawberry Sauce. 

One small tablespoon of flour, 1 cup sugar, }4 cup butter 
beat very light, then add 1 pt. boiling water. Stir until it 
comes to a boil. Flavor with strawberry juice or wine. 

Wine Jelly. 

y<z box of Plymouth Rock Gelatine dissolved in 1 cup of 

cold water. Add 1 cup of boiling water, 1 cup Maderia and 

Sherry wine mixed, 1 cup of sugar, ;3 of a cup of English 

walnuts. 

—14— 



CAKES. 
Chocolate Cake. 

1 cup sugar, y 2 cup butter, ^ cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 
teaspoons baking powder, whites of 5 eggs, pinch salt, 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla; y cake Baker's chocolate melted. 

FROSTING FOR THE ABOVE. 

Whites of 1 egg, 1 cup of sugar, y cake Baker' s chocolate, 
y 2 box cocoanut soaked in a little milk. 

Lady Cake. 

% lb. butter and \y lbs. sugar creamed, \% lbs. flour, 
Fill a pint measure with the whites of eggs and beat well. */t 
lb. bitter almonds pounded fine in rose water. 

Spice Cake. 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, y 2 cup butter and 3 cups flour, 
3 eggs, 2 teaspoonsfuls baking powder, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 
teaspoon cinnamon and a little nutmeg, raisins and currants. 

Pound Cake. 

1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. butter, 1 lb. flour, 10 eggs, leaving out 
the yolks of two, cream, butter, and sugar thoroughly, add 
yolks well beaten, then whites and flour, 2 tablespoons of 
brandy and a little nutmeg. Success depends on persistent 
beating. 

Delicate Cake. 

2 pts. sugar, 3 pts. flour, whites of 18 eggs, 2 teacups 
butter, 2 tablespoons soda and 4 tablespoons cream tartar. 
Cream butter and sugar thoroughly, alternate the flour and 
eggs. Put cream of tartar in flour, mix soda in water and add 
the very last thing. 

Caramel Filling for Cake. 

1 cup cream, 3 cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter. Put 
them together over the fire and boil 20 minutes, stirring all 
the while until it thickens. Flavor with vanilla. 

—15— 



A Delicious Cake. 

Whites of six eggs, 1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup 
milk, 3^2 cups flour, 2 teaspoonsful baking powder. Cream 
the butter and sugar. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. First 
put a little flour into the creamed butter, then add the other 
ingredients. Dissolve the baking powder in the milk. Bake 
^ or ^ hours, according to the heat of range. Do not over 
bake. Ice while hot. 

Filling. 

% lb. marshmallows, }( cup water. Put this in a stew 
pan in a pan of water. Dissolve slowly. Stir until cool 
enough to spread. Spread on the cake and sprinkle freshly 
grated cocoanut on top. Garnish with bits of cherries and 
Angelica. 

Imperial Fruit Cake. 

1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb. butter, 1 lb. flour, 1 lb. raisins, Y\ lb. 
citron, r / 2 lb. almonds, blanched and pounded, 10 eggs, 2 
wine glasses of brandy, 1 small teaspoon soda. 

Fruit Cake. 

\y 2 lbs. of brown sugar, 1% lbs. butter, 1^ lbs. flour, 10 
eggs, 1 large pint of brandy, 1 teaspoon soda in very little 
cold water, 1 lb. citron, 2 lbs. currants after being washed, 7 
lbs. raisins after being seeded, 3 nutmegs, 2 tablespoons of 
mace, }4 tablespoon cloves, 4 tablespoons cinnamon, cream 
butter and sugar, add yolks well beaten, then whites of eggs 
beaten stiff, then soda, and brandy, flour and spices. Chop 
part of raisins, roll the rest with the currants in flour. Put 
some of the batter in tins, then lay in the citron, then more 
batter and citron. Bake three hours. 

Almond Cream Cake. 

1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. flour, 10 eggs. Stir yolks of eggs and 
sugar until perfectly light, add the whites beaten light, 2 tea- 
spoonsful baking powder and flour. Flavor with lemon and 
bake in moderate oven. 

—16— 



Cream for Filling. 

1 pint thick cream beaten until it looks like ice cream. 
Make very sweet and flavor with vanilla. Blanch and chop 
fine 1 lb. almonds and stir into cream. Bake the cake in two 
jelly tins, allow to get perfectly cold, and spread the cream as 
thick as possible between the layers. 

Butter Milk Cake. 

2 cups sugar, % cup butter, 3 cups flour. 2 cups butter- 
milk, 2 cups raisins, 1 cup currants, 2^ teaspoons cinnamon, 

1 teaspoon cloves, nutmeg to taste, 2 even teaspoons soda 
stirred briskly into the last cup of buttermilk. If desired add 

2 tablespoons of brandy and a little citron cut fine. 

Marshmallow Filling. 

To Yt, lb of marshmallows add a very little water and 
sugar, place on stove to dissolve slowly, then add y 2 lb. of 
sultana raisins chopped and 1 cupful chopped pecan nut meats. 
Spread between layers of delicate cake. 



MACAROONS. 

Cocoanut Macaroons. 

Whites of three eggs, *_> lb. of sugar, 1 cocoanut grated. 
Drop on buttered paper, and dry in a warm oven. 

Almond Macaroons. 

Roll Y-z lb. of almond paste and one-half lb. of powdered 
sugar together. Sift this into the whites of 4 unbeaten eggs. 
Thoroughly mix this with a wooden spoon. Then drop on 
sheets of brown paper, fit into a dripping pan and bake 20 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

Hickory Nut Macaroons. 

1 pint sugar, 1 pint flour, 1 pint nut meats chopped fine. 
Whites of four eggs. Drop on buttered tins and bake. 



CHOCOLATE KISSES. 

3 ounces grated chocolate, ^ lb. sugar, whites of 4 eggs, 
^ lb. blanched almonds chopped. Beat the whites stiff and 
add the sugar, then the almonds and chocolate ; bake on 

buttered paper. 

—17— 



AFTERNOON TEA CAKES AND COOKIES. 
Fruit Cookies. 

Beat together light the yolks and whites of 2 eggs. Stir 
in two cups brown sugar, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 4 table- 
spoonsful of sour milk, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, y 2 teaspoon 
nutmeg, 1 cup chopped raisins. Mix as little as possible with 
flour, do not roll more than once and cut rather thick. 

Nut Wafers. 

2 eggs beaten very light, 1 cup brown sugar, 3 table- 
spoons flour with y teaspoon baking powder, y teaspoon 
salt, Y-2, lb. pecan nuts chopped very fine. Drop teaspoonful 
in a place and bake rather quickly. Other kinds of nuts can 
be used. 

Soft Cookies. 

Y^ cup of butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup cream, 1 egg, 1 tea- 
spoon soda. Flour for soft dough. Roll thin, bake in quick 
oven. 

Montrose Cookies. 

1 lb. flour, y lb. butter, y lb. sugar, 1 teaspoon mixed 
spices, cinnamon, nutmeg, and mace and a few raisins, 3 eggs 
well beaten, juice of 1 lemon, and y the grated peel. Roll 
out thin, cut into round cakes. Sprinkle a little white sugar 
over the top, lay a whole raisin in the center of each and bake 
quickly until crisp. 

Ginger Snaps. 

1 cup molasses, 1 cup sugar, 4 tablespoons boiling water 
in a cup and fill the cup with melted butter, y teaspoon 
ginger, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon soda. 
Little clove. Mix as soft as you can. Roll thin. 

Ginger Bread. 

3 eggs. 1 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, y cup lard, y cup 
butter melted, 1 cup sour cream, y teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon 
ginger, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, y teaspoon cloves, 3 cups flour, 

—18— 



Black Jacks. 

Y?, cup N. O. Molasses, y 2 cup brown sugar, ^ cup butter 
and lard, 1 egg, j4 cup milk, 1}4 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon ginger, 1 teaspoon cloves. 
Bake in muffin tins. 



DOUGHNUTS. 

1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 eggs, % cup milk, 
T /2 teaspoon cinnamon, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 3 cups flour. Fry in hot lard. 

Crullers. 

2 spoonsful of butter, 2 spoonsful of sugar, beaten to a 
cream, 2 eggs, yi spoonful of cream, little nutmeg, flour 
enough to make it not too stiff. Roll thin, cut in shape. Fry 
in boiling lard like doughnuts. 

Sand Tarts. 

y lb. butter, x / 2 lb. sugar beaten to a cream, add the 
yolks of three eggs and the whites of two, beaten well together. 
1 teaspoon of vanilla. Flour to make a rather stiff dough. 
Dust your baking board thickly with granulated sugar. Roll 
a little dough moderately thin, cut into squares, place blanched 
almonds at each corner and in the center, sprinkle lightly with 
cinnamon. Bake in moderate oven. 




—19— 



PRESERVES. 
German Strawberries. 

1 bowl berries and 1 bowl cut loaf sugar. Put in layers 
in porcelain kettle, starting with sugar. When filled, 1 extra 
bowl of sugar over top. Let it stand over night, in the 
morning boil 15 minutes hard. Remove and when cold put in 
jars and seal. 

Pear Chips. 

8 lb. hard green pears, 8 lb. granulated sugar, 6 lemons, 
2 ozs. preserved ginger. Pare and slice thin. Rind of 2 
lemons, pulp and juice of 6. Slice the preserved ginger. Put 
in kettle with one glass of cold water. Boil until clear and 
soft. 

Orange Marmalade. 

1 doz. oranges. ^ doz. lemons cut in small pieces, first 
removing the seeds. Soak in 15 quarts of water over night, 
in the morning put all on the fire and boil 3 hours. Then add 
12 lbs. of sugar and boil one-half hour. 



Spiced Grapes. 

5 lbs. of grapes, 3 lbs. of brown sugar, 2 teaspoons of 
cinnamon, 2 teaspoons of allspice, y 2 teaspoon of cloves. 
Pulp grapes. Cook skins until tender. Cook pulp and strain. 
Add y 2 pint of vinegar. Boil 3 hours. 



PLUM CATSUP. 

5 lbs. of plums, 3 lbs. of sugar, 1 pint of vinegar, table- 
spoon cloves, cinnamon and black pepper, 2 tablespoons 
allspice, y 2 tablespooon salt. Boil 20 minutes. 

—20— 



BEVERAGES. 
Grape Juice. 

Wash grapes without stripping from the stems, put enough 
water in kettle to prevent burning. Cook until you can press 
juice from the pulp with a potatoe masher, then strain through 
cheese cloth. Add 1 cup sugar to 2 qts. of juice. Let come to 
scalding point and bottle while hot. 8 small baskets makes 
15 pint bottles. 

Grape Cordial. 

10 lbs. of grapes, 1 gal. pure spirits, pour liquor on grapes, 
let stand 6 weeks. Make a syrup of three pounds of granulated 
sugar, 1 y^, qts. of water, let it boil 5 minutes, strain syrup 
and liquor. Mix together and bottle. Wild plums can be 
used instead of grapes. 

Orange Peel Cordial. 

Take the rind of \)' z doz. oranges. The peeling must be 
free from pulp. Cut in small pieces and put into a demijohn. 
Pour over this 1 gal. of French spirits. Let it stand well 
corked for four weeks, at the end of which time make a syrup 
of 5 lbs. of sugar, 1}4 qts. of water. Before it is cold add the 
liquor from the orange peel. Mix, after which it is ready for 
use. If too strong add a little hot water to weaken it. 

Egg Nog. 

12 eggs, 1 qt. cream, 8 tablespoons pulverized sugar, 1 pt. 
whiskey or brandy, }4 pint Jamaica rum. Beat whites to stiff 
froth and add to these 4 tablespoonsful sugar. Beat cream 
arid add 4 tablespoonful sugar. Put the whiskey and rum 
into the yolks of eggs (it cooks them). Mix all together. 
Keep on ice. This will last for days, or it can be frozen. 

Little drops of whiskey 
Poured on broken ice, 
Little grains of sugar, 
Of lemon peel a slice, 
Just a dash of Angos- 
Tura bitters, pray? 
What we call a " cocktail " 
In the U. S. A. 
—21— 



PUNCHES. 
Roman Punch. 

1 qt. sugar and 2 qts. water boiled together 30 minutes, 
put in juice of 12 lemons and strain. When cold freeze as for 
ice. Now take whites of 8 eggs beaten in 10 tablespoons 
sugar, y^ cup water. Boil sugar and water as for frosting and 
beat into beaten whites and add 4 tablespoons of rum and 
8 of sherry to the frosting, and stir into the frozen mixture. 
Whip very swiftly the last time. 

Sorbet. 

Boil together 20 minutes 1 pint sugar and 1 qt. water and 
1 pt. chopped pineapple. Add to this the juice of 4 lemons 
and juice of 2 oranges. When cold freeze. 

Claret Punch. 

1 bottle Claret, 1 cup ice water, juice of one orange. 
Slice 2 lemons, y 2 cup or more of sugar. Let the lemon stand 
in*the s ugar a short time before adding other ingredients. 
Plenty of cracked ice. 



LofC. 




—22— 



CANDY. 

2 cups brown sugar, }4 cup cream, butter size of walnut, 
any kind of nuts. Boil until done and then beat until creamy.' 

Almond Taffy. 

Boil together % pt. water and 1 lb. brown sugar for ten 
minutes. Blanch and slice \y 2 oz. almonds, stir them into the 
syrup with 2 ozs. butter. Let this boil hard ten minutes. 
Pour on a well buttered dish to the thickness of y 2 inch. 

Molasses Candy. 

2 cups thick golden syrup, 1 cup sugar. Butter size of 
walnut, 3 or 4 teaspoons vinegar. Boil hard for 25 minutes, 
stirring to prevent burning. Spread on well buttered tins and 
when not too cold pull. 

Pralines. 

Ij4 lbs. light brown sugar, 1 pt. syrup. Let this boil. 
Skim it. Let boil until it crisps a little, not too stiff, then 
put in 5 coffee cupsful of nut meats very carefully picked over. 
Let this cook 4 or 5 minutes. Remove from stove and stir 
vigorously until cool enough to put on a a buttered dish in 
any shape you like. 

Stuffed Dates. 

Paste of peanuts mixed with white of an egg, a few drops 
of sherry wine. Stuff two dates, press together and roll in 
powdered sugar. 




—23— 



MENUS FOR GENTLEMEN'S EVENING 
SUPPERS. 

** This night he makes a supper and a great one to many lords and ladies," — 

Henry VIII. 

1 

Blue Points creamed on the half shell. 

Lettuce sandwiches, coffee. 

Lemon tarts. 



2 

Sweet bread and cucumber salad. 

Entire wheat bread sandwiches. 

Coffee. 

Soda crackers spread with Waukesha cheese. 

Preserved German currants. 



3 
Moulds of tomato jelly, served with chicken salad sandwiches 
made of one layer of white and one layer of Graham bread. 

Coffee. 
Individual mince pies. Cheese. 



4 

Rounds of toast with braised mushrooms on top. 

Salad sandwiches. 

Coffee. 

Pattie crusts filled with preserved strawberries and whipped 

cream on top. 



5 

Sandwiches cut from bread in rounds, spread with butter, 

then a thin slice of roast beef, then a slice of fresh 

tomatoes with mayonnaise, then a slice of bread. 

Coffee. 

Chocolate Eclairs Cheese balls made of cream cheese. 

—24— 



6 

Pattie crusts filled with creamed mushrooms and sweetbreads. 

Nut sandwiches. Coffee 

Burr Mangoes. 

Fruit salad made of cubes of grape fruit oranges, pineapph 

sugar and sherry with a Marashino cherry on top. 

Served in punch glasses. 



7 

Pork and beans. Cabbage salad with boiled dressing. 

Brown bread sandwiches. 

Coffee. 

Doughnuts. Cheese 



8 
Breasts of chicken larded. Toast sandwiches. Jelly tart. 

Coffee. 

Wine jelly colored with red fruit juice, a few bits of walnuts 

hardened in it. A little whipped cream on top. 

Let it harden in punch glasses. 



9 

Thin slices of Cervelat sausages. 

Potato salad. Crackers. Swiss cheese. 

Coffee. 
Toasted English muffins spread with butter and maple cream. 




—25— 



EXCELLENT HAND LOTION. 

1 oz. Glycerine, 10 grains Borax, ^ oz. Brandy, ^ pint 
Rose Water. Well mixed. 



WEIGHTS BY MEASURE. 

One quart of flour is equal to one pound. 
One pint of closely packed butter, one pound. 
One piece of butter size of an egg, two ounces. 
One pint of sugar one pound. 
Two wineglassfuls one gill. 




The advertisers in this book are good friends of the 
Creche and are worthy of our patronage. 

—26— 



PYROGRAPHY. 



Complete Outfits (including wooden box and design) $4.50. 

Articles for Burning in Wood and Leather. 
Designs Suitable for Pyrographic Decoration. 

A. H. ABBOTT & CO., 

ART SUPPLIES, 

48 Madison Street, CHICAGO. 

MATTHEWS 
Women's Tailors and Furriers, 

44 Jackson Boulevard, 
CHICAGO. 

Telephone, Harrison 223. 



New Model Suits and Coats. 



Exquisite and Exclusive Fabrics. 



EDWARD J. KANN, 

Spot Cash Purveyor of 
CHOICEST 

Groceries and Meats. 



1 8 & 20 E. 43d St. Phone Oakland 742. 
196 & 198 E. 31st St. Phone South 281 . 





FELIX WEIR, 
Violin Soloist* 

Has an Orchestra open for 
engagement for social enter- 
tainments, under manage- 
ment of :: :: :: :: :: 

D. H. WEIR, Caterer, 

3019 Michigan Avenue. 

Telephone, South 1129. 




Howieson 



Robes and 
Modes 






New York: 38 West 33rd Street 
Chicago: 4 East Washington Street 

JNO. D. BANGS & (XX 

IMPORTERS OF AND DEALERS IN 

FINE 

Household Furnishing Gjoodg 

Cooking School Specialties. 




RUSSIAN, FRENCH, VIENNA 

AND OTHER MAKES 

COFFEE MACHINES. 



fjU*\a^tCc. 



French Border Moulds. 

Jelly, Chicken, Croquette and Tim- 
bale Moulds — Caseroles, Shirred 
Egg Pans, Fish Sheets, Bread 
Stick Pans, Sandwich 
Cutter, Etc., Etc. 

274 & 276 Wabash Ave. 

Near Van Buren St. 



©on>plin>et>ts of 



zJ . JL). J I ladigan, 



tf^irtlj-^irst Street arySi forest 6Ue. 



PALAIS ROYAL, 
Gloves and Corsets, 



(Exclusively.) 

157 State Street, CHICAGO. 

Miss Farquhar. 

MISS M. M, HARPERS' 

SYSTEM OF TREATING SCALP IMPURITIES, 
FALLING OF THE HAIR AND DANDRUFF. 

LADIES HAIRDRESSING AND SHAMPOOING PARLORS. 
920 Marshall Field Bldg., CHICAGO. 

G. F.GIELSDORF, 

Manufacturer of 

FINE FURS, 

¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥ 

34 Washington Street, Venetian Building. 

Second Floor. CHICAGO, 





PURE, FRESH AND DELICIOUS 

BONBONS, CHOCOLATES. 

Mail or Express Orders 
Promptly and Correctly Filled. 

1 55 STATE ST., CH ICAGO, I LL. 




KATHRYN V. HARTIGAN, 

1302 COLUMBUS MEMORIAL BLDG. 

STATE AND WASHINGTON STS. 

.>.«<►>«;. 

SPECIALTIES: 

Corsets, Laundered Shirt Waists and Colored bkirts. 
riargaret Etter Creche Laundry. 

MRS. A. A. ALBERTSON, Prop. 

2423 Wabash Avenue, Chicago. 

C. H. SMILEY, 
Caterer 



Telephone, South 584. 
76 Twenty-second Street, CHICAGO. 

New York Steam Dye Works, 

JOHN ZENCELER, Prop. 

2323 Cottage Grove Avenue, 
Corner Prairie Avenue. 

Telephone. South 1007. Chicago. 



WEDDING CARDS 



INVITATIONS 

ANNOUNCEMENTS 

AT HOME CARDS 

CORRECT STYLE 

LOWEST PRICES 



DUNWELL & FORD 

STATIONERS ' 

17 1 WABASH «■■ ; 

CH CAGO J 



P. J. PEEL, 

Masseur 

Telephone, J. J. J. South 214. 



Home Brewed Beverages 



Can be Kept Fresh and Sparkling 
after Uncorking by Using a 

Perfection Bottle Stopper. 



Invaluable for Household Use 

As Mineral Waters, Ginger Ale, Wines and all sorts of 
Bottled Goods can be kept absolutely air tight 
after once opened. 

No. 1, For Large Quarts. 
No. 2, For Ordinary Bottles. 

The Perfection Bottle Stopper Co., 

260 Clark Street, Chicago. 




FITS ANY BOTTLE. 



Price, 35 Cents. 



FOR SALE BY 

Jevne & Co., C. H. Slack, Stanton & Co., Rockwood Bros. Co., W. H. 
Salisbury & Co. 




igoi. 

M. J. HOPSON & CO. 

Respectfully announce their 

Spring Exhibit 

of 

Imported Hats 

and Millinery Novelties. 

Trude Building, 

71 Wabash Ave., Chicago, 




A Fresh Complexion is Always Admired. 



AUDITORIUH CREAM 

WILL GIVE AND PRESERVE IT. 

Price, 50 Cents a Jar. 

For Sale At 

AUDITORIUM PHARMACY, 

Auditorium Building. Cor. Congress and Wabash Ave. 



AUTOTYPES. 



PLATINUMS. 



WJRootStudios 

MICH ART 1 

HOTOGR&PHY. 

242>Wdbd5hi Avenue. 

(KIM5ALLHALL) riA\fkrr\ T EUEPHOtiE.. 

VnlV^-AVjVJ. HARRISON 2oq<i 




Ff\E.D D FO,55 MANAGER, 



lobcrt R* English & Co* 
Grocery and Market 

7 J and 73 East Twenty-Second Street 
Telephone, So. 591 * CHICAGO 



leanest Store, Stock 
and Service in the City 

All First Class and 
Moderate Price 




Mr. English gives his Personal At- 
tention to the Meat Market : : : : 



LIBRARY OF 



CONGRESS 




014 489 58 4 8 * 

wftcts. wL Oan\uei8on 

2127-2129 fWicfogan ®**m 




'■?r*rT ,yp V.TT.V 



festinyates >5ur^t8^cd oi> all floral 
JDecorattor\8 



3Ws, 8outf< 411 d. 99© 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



014 489 584 8 



