THfeHARTLEY Hou: 

' " '.'4 ' - 

". ^ Coci|<r-roK 

Xl^O HOUSEHOLD ESONdia, 




•*^'' '/" 



Ella A.Pierce 



HfirBOOKS FOR PRACTICAL WORK1.R; 







Class _JX1L£ 
Book -Pfei^ 



GopightN". 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



I^andbooks for practical Workers 
in Cl)urcl) ana PDtlantbropp 

EDITED BY 

SAMUEL MACAULEY JACKSON 

PROFESSOR OF CHURCH HISTORY IN 
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 



THE 

HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 



The Hartley House Cook Book 



AND 



HOUSEHOLD ECO^OIMIST 



BY 

ELLA A. PIERCE 



TEACHER OF 



1 

I i 



COOKING CLASSES AT HARTLEY HOUSE 

U 



NEW YORK 

LENTILHON & COMPANY 

150 Fifth Avenue 



THE L'BRABV OF] 


CONCf?ESS, 1 


TV»0 Gur^E8 


KecEivee 


DEC. 20 


1901 


Copyright 


ENTRy 


CLASS a ) 


<Xa NO. 


COPY 


a. 






Copyright, igox 
By Lbntilhon & Company 



INTRODUCTION. 

A strong conviction that the average family in 
this country spends more money for food than is 
necessary for adequate nourishment, and an increas- 
ing demand for the printed recipes used in the 
Hartley House cooking classes, have led to the 
publication of this book. It is recommended to 
those who wish to live well at a moderate cost with 
the hope that the hints on the general care of the 
home will prove helpful. 

The writer wishes gratefully to acknowledge her 
indebtedness to Miss Helen M. Hall, who originated 
the Hartley House Home-keeping Classes, and who 
by her enthusiasm, conscientious effort, and valuable 
suggestions made possible much of their later 
growth. 

Ella A. Pierce. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE, 

INTBODUCTION , .:.,...,.....:...,.. • vii 

CHAPTER I. 
Simple Rules for Housekeeping. 

Ventilation 13 

Cleaning « . . 14 — 15 

Coal and Gas Stoves 15 — 16 

Tests for Oven Heat 17 

Washing Dishes and Tables 18 

Care of Sink, Tea Kettle and Ice Box 19 

Tale Setting 20 

Making Soap from Waste Fat. 21 

CHAPTER n. 
Measuring and Mixing. 

Correct Way to Measure 22 

Abbreviations 22 

Table of Weights and Measures 23 

Ways of Combining Ingredients 23 

CHAPTER III. 

CSRIALS AND MaCARONL 

General Rules for Cooking Cereals 24 

Time Table for Cooking Cereals... 25 

Recipes for Cooking Cereals .25 — 28 

Use for Left-Over Cereal 27 

Food Value of Marcaroni 27 

Recipes for Cooking Macaroni 28 



Vlll CONTENTS, 

CHAPTER IV. 
Vegetables. 

PAGE, 

Selection 29 

General Rules for Cooking 29 

Time Tables for Cooking 29 — 30 

Recipes for Fresh and Dried Vegetables.... 30 — 40 

CHAPTER V. 

Vegetable Soups. 

Recipes for Making 41--4S 

CHAPTER VI. 

Meat. 

Food Value » . . 46 

Kinds of Meat 46 

Selection and Care of Meat , 46 

General Rules with Time Tables for Cooking 47 — 51 

Cuts of Meat, Position, Name and Price 52 — 60 

Recipes for Cooking 60 — T'}* 

Ways of Using Left-Over Meat 73 — 76 

CHAPTER VII. 

Poultry. 

Food Value '^'] 

Selection and Preparation for Cooking ']'] — 78 

Recipes for Cooking 78 — 81 

CHAPTER VIII. 

Fish. 

As a Food 82 

Selection and Care 82 

Best Methods of Cooking. 82 

Recipes for Cooking Fresh Fish , 82 — 86 

Recipes for Fish Sauces 84 

Food Value of Salt Fish 86 

Recipes for Cooking Salt Fish 87 — 90 

Ways of Using Left-Over Cooked Fish 91 — 92 



CONTENTS, IX 

CHAPTER IX, 
Shellfish. 

PAGB. 

Food Value and Care of Oysters 93 

How to Select Oysters 93 

Preparation for Cooking 93 

Recipes for Cooking Oysters 93 — 94 

Recipes for Cooking Clams 95 — 96 

CHAPTER X. 

Eggs. 

Food Value of Eggs , 97 

Proper Method of Cooking. 97 

Tests for Fresh Eggs 97 

Care of Eggs 97 

Recipes for Cooking 97 — 100 

CHAPTER XL 

Cheese. 

Value as a Food loi 

Proper Combination with Other Foods loi 

Recipes for Cooking loi — 102 

Making Cheese with Sour Milk , 103 

CHAPTER Xn. 

Breakfast Cakes and Biscuit, 

General Rules for Mixing and Baking 104 

Recipes for Breakfast Cakes 104 — 108 

General Rules for Baking Powder Doughs 108 

Recipes for Biscuit and Short Cake 109 — no 

CHAPTER Xni. 

Bread and Rolls. 

Advantages of Home-made over Baker's Bread in 

General Rules for Making and Baking Yeast Bread. in — ^113 

Tests for Good Bread 112 

Care of Bread 113 



CONTENTS. 



PAGB. 

Recipes for Yeast Bread and Rolls .113—117 

Breads Raised with Baking Powder or Soda 117 — 118 

Uses for Stale Bread 118 

Recipes for Making Dry and Milk Toast (White 
Sauce) .11(^-120 

CHAPTER XIV. 

Pies. 

Objections to Frequent Use 121 

Method of Preparing Pastry 121 

When to Use but One Crust. „ 121 

Recipes for Pastry and Filling 121 — 124 

CHAPTER XV. 

Puddings, Pudding Sauces, Cold Desserts, Stewed Fruits, 

Etc. 

Recipes for Baked Puddings 125 — 127 

Recipes for Steamed Puddings 128 — 129 

Recipes for Pudding Sauces 129 — 130 

Recipes for Cold Desserts, including Ice Cream. ,. .131 — 136 

Recipes for Stewed Fruits 136—137 

CHAPTER XVI. 

Cake, Icing, Cake Fillings, Gingerbread and Cookies. 

General Rules for Making Cakes with Butter 138 

Recipe for Feather Cake 139 

Variations of Feather Cake 139 — 140 

Recipes for Other Cakes 140 — 142 

Recipes for Icings and Fillings 143 — 144 

Recipes for Gingerbread and Cookies 144 — 146 

CHAPTER XVII. 

Candy. 

Wholesomeness of Home-made Candies 147 

When to Eat Them 147 

Method of Making Clear Candy 147 

Recipes for Candy 147 — 149 

Salted Peanuts and Stuffed Dates 149 — 150 



CONTENTS. XI 

CHAPTER XVIII. 
Drinks. 

PAGE. 

Value of Tea and Coffee 151 

General Rules for Buying and Making Tea and Coffee. 151 

Danger in Boiling Tea 151 

Food Value of Cocoa... 151 

Recipes for Making Hot Drinks , . . , 151— 152 

Recipes for Making Cold Drinks for Summer 152--153 

CHAPTER XIX. 

Invalid Cookery. 

Hints on Care of the Sick 154 

Recipes for Beef Tea and Broths 155 — 156 

Use for Boiled Milk 156 

Recipes for Drinks 156 — 158 

Recipes for Gruels 158 — 159 

Recipes for Egg Preparations 159 — 160 

Recipes for Desserts 160 — 162 

CHAPTER XX. 

Suggestions for Combinations of Food for Simple Bills 
OF Fare. 

Cost of Food Material for a Small Family 163 

Proper Foods for Winter and Summer 163 

Use of Canned Meat 164 

Milk as a Food 164 

Milk for Babies 164 

Food for Children 164 

Bills of Fare for Summer and Winter 165 — 172 



HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

AND 

HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 



CHAPTER I. 

SIMPLE RULES FOR HOUSEKEEPING. 

Ventilation, 

Breathing pure air is as necessary as eating 
nourishing, well-cooked food. For this reason, the 
housekeeper must, even in the coldest weather, see 
that the foul air inside the house has a chance to 
escape, and the fresh air from outside, a chance 
to get in. This may be done, through the day, by 
occasionally lowering one or more windows at the 
top, and raising them from the bottom. At night, 
windows should always be kept open a little at both 
top and bottom. In very cold weather, a narrow 
board may be placed across the window-sill for the 
lower sash to rest upon. In case of inside sleep- 
ing rooms, doors can be left open into the rooms 
which have windows, that can be opened. In the 
morning, bed clothes should be taken off, and placed 
over a chair, the windows opened wide for a little 
while, and the beds be allowed to air. Mattresses 
should be turned over, every day. It is an excel- 
as 



14 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

lent plan to brush wearing apparel, and hang it out 
on the clothes line, occasionally, so that it may be- 
come aired. 

Cleanliness is another requisite to good health. 
As far as possible, get rid of all dust ; for it often 
carries germs of disease. Whenever food is put 
outside the window to cool, it should be carefully 
covered to escape the dust. 

Sweeping. 

Cover all food while sweepmg and dusting, and 
never sweep or dust while cooking is going on. 

Move chairs to one side of the room and begin 
at the opposite side to sweep. Sweep from you, 
towards the center of the room, keeping the broom 
close to the floor, and make as little dust as possi- 
ble. Collect dust in a dustpan and burn ; never put 
it in the coal hod. 

Dusting. 

After dust has settled, wipe it up with a soft 
piece of cloth, beginning with the things higher up, 
and afterwards dusting others lower down. Fre- 
quently shake your duster out of the window. Dust 
every piece of furniture, and also door and window- 
ledges. The dust cloth should be kept clean by 
washing it frequently. 

Care of Floors. 

Painted floors, or those covered with oil-cloth 
should be often wiped up in clear water. Unpainted 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. I5 

floors are best cleaned by scrubbing with a brush, 
using soap suds or sand soap, and then wiping 
them with a cloth wrAing out in clear water. 

Toilet Closets. 

It is of absolute importance that the bowls in 
toilet closets be kept clean. The water should al- 
ways have a chance to flow freely through the pipe 
every time the closet is used. At least once a week, 
the bowl should be scrubbed as far down as it can 
possibly be reached, to remove any matter that has 
not been washed away by the flowing water. A 
long brush or stick may be used for this purpose. 

Building and Care of a Fire, 

Close dampers and slides, empty fire-box; and 
sift ashes, saving all pieces of partly burned coal. 
Cover bottom of fire-box with pieces of crumpled 
or twisted paper, and then lay on small pieces of 
wood, crosswise, having them come out well at the 
ends. Open dampers and light the fire. When the 
wood gets well to burning, sprinkle three or four 
shovels of coal over it. Then add the coal by de- 
grees till the fire-box is two-thirds or three-fourths 
full. When the blue flame has burned off, close 
oven damper, and as soon as the coal is burning 
freely, shut the front damper. When the fire is not 
being used, save coal by keeping all dampers closed, 
check draughts open, and one or two covers raised. 
To start up the fire, open all dampers^ put on covers 



l6 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

and close check draughts. After a few minutes, 
shake down ashes, and add more coal if needed. To 
keep a fire over night : Shake down ashes, fill fire- 
box with coal, close all dampers, open check 
draughts, and lift the back covers. The ashes 
should be often brushed from the top of the oven, 
and raked out from underneath. Whenever the 
top of the stove becomes spattered with fat, or any- 
thing is spilled on it, wipe off at once with some 
soft paper. Occasionally blacken the stove and 
polish with a dry brush or piece of cloth. This 
can best be done when stove is slightly warm. 

Gas Stove. 

In case a gas stove is used, see that the burners, 
the top of the stove, the oven, the dripping pan and 
broiler are kept clean. If anything boils over or is 
spilled, wipe it up at once, with a soft piece of 
paper. Often clean the top burners with a brush, 
and take out, and clean the iron sheet underneath 
them. Whenever the air holes become clogged, 
clear them out, by using a small stick or wire. 

When the stove is not in use, all stop cocks, in- 
cluding the one in the connecting pipe should be 
closed. In turning off the gas, first close cock in 
connecting pipe, then the one to the burner. In 
turning on the gas open cock in connecting pipe, 
then the one supplying burner, allowing gas to flow 
for one or two seconds before applying a lighted 
match. The gas should burn with a blue flame. If 
it burns with a yellow flame, turn it off, and light 
it again. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. I7 

To light oven burner, first light the taper or 
pilot light, as it is sometimes called, and then open 
cock to oven burner, when it will light with more 
or less of a puff; immediately then turn off pilot 
light. Always open the oven door before lighting 
oven burner. 

Before baking or broiling, the oven burners 
should be lighted for ten or more minutes. In 
most ovens sufficient heat may be had by keeping 
the gas turned low. Even then it is sometimes 
necessary to have a shallow pan of water on the 
shelf underneath the food to prevent its burning. 
In using the top burners, keep the gas turned down 
as low as is possible to keep the contents of kettle 
or saucepan boiling. 

For broiling or toasting, place toaster or rack and 
pan close under the burner. For toasting, have 
the flame turned low so that the bread may toast 
slowly. 

Roasting and broiling are both more quickly done 
with a gas than with a coal stove. A slice of steak 
requiring from five to seven minutes to broil over 
coals will broil in from four to six minutes in a 
gas stove. 

In roasting by gas about two minutes less time 
may be allowed to the pound. 

Tests for Oven Heat. 

For baking large loaves of bread and cake a 
moderate oven is required. An oven is moderate 
when it will turn a piece of white writing paper 
dark brown in six minutes, or when the hand can 



l8 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

be held inside from twelve to fifteen seconds. For 
baking small loaves of bread, rolls, biscuit, break- 
fast cakes or for small roasts of meat, a quick oven 
is required. A quick oven will turn a piece of writ- 
ing paper dark brown in four minutes; the hand 
can be held in a quick oven from eight to ten 
seconds. 

Washing Dishes. 

Scrape food from dishes; collect each kind and 
put in a pile by itself. Have a pan of hot, soapy 
water, wash glasses first, cups and saucers next, and 
then silver. Rinse each dish in clean, hot water, 
drain, and wipe on clean, dry cloths. Then wash, 
rinse, drain and wipe plates and the dirtier dishes. 
Wipe out very greasy pots and pans with soft paper, 
before washing, and always wash them in very hot, 
soapy water. Wipe frying pans and kettles with 
dish cloth wrung dry, further dry, by placing them 
on the stove shelf. 

All cooking dishes should be put to soak in cold 
water immediately after using. Never put handles 
of steel knives into the water, but wash with the 
dish cloth. The handle of a Dover egg beater 
should never be put into water, as washing the oil 
out of the gears causes the beater to turn hard. 
Wash, rinse and hang to dry all dish towels every 
time they are used. 

Scrubbing Boards and Unpainted Kitchen Tables. 

Brush off all bits, and wash the board or table. 
Wet a brush and rub sapolio on it ; scrub with the 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. IQ 

grain of the wood. Then wash off suds with a cloth, 
rinse and wring cloth, and wipe the board as dry as 
possible. Rinse and shake brush, and place it to 
dry, with the bristles down. 

Care of Sink. 

Keep the sink very clean, by thorough scrubbing, 
and by often pouring down hot, soapy water to 
clean the pipe, and afterwards rinsing with clear 
water. If the sink be an iron one, wipe it dry, after 
washing, so that it will not rust. Be careful never 
to pour anything down the sink that will stop up 
the pipe. In case the pipe becomes stopped up 
with grease, pour dawn some sal soda dissolved in 
boiling water. Occasionally drying an iron sink 
and rubbing it over with a little grease, or with 
kerosene, will prevent rusting. 

Care of the Tea-kettle, 

Keep the tea-kettle from rusting, by pouring out 
the water every night, and inverting kettle on the 
sink-shelf to drain. 

Care of Ice Chest, 

Keep the inside clean, and see that no food is 
allowed to remain inside till spoiled. Once a week, 
take out the food, wash shelves with hot, soapy 
water, rinse, and dry, before putting them back. 
Frequently wash out and rinse the ice chamber and 
pipe before a piece of ice is put in. 



20 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Setting the Table, 

Dust the table, and cover with an under cloth, if 
you have one. A clean, old blanket will answer for 
the purpose. Put on the table cloth, having the cen- 
ter of the cloth come in the center of the table. 
Lay a knife and fork for each person, the knife at 
the right side, with sharp edge towards plate, and 
the fork with tines up, at the left side; the napkin 
and butter plate at the left side, and the tumbler 
at the right. If teaspoons or soup spoons are 
needed, place one at the right of each knife. When 
hot meat is to be served, have the plates warmed 
and placed in a pile at the father's place, with carv- 
ing knife and fork at the back of them, or at one 
side. Place one vegetable dish at the left of 
father's place, and if more than one vegetable is to 
be served, place the other dish at mother's place, 
with plates or saucers piled in front. Have table- 
spoons and salt and pepper shakers at right of 
father's and of mother's place. 

At breakfast or tea, arrange cups and saucers at 
the left side of the mother's place ; the milk pitcher 
and sugar bowl in front, and the tea or coffee pot 
at the right. 

After being served with tea, coffee or cocoa, al- 
ways put cup and saucer at the right side of your 
plate. Never leave the spoon in the cup, but as 
soon as you have stirred the tea, place spoon in the 
saucer. 

A small plant or vine growing in water, placed in 
the center of the table adds to its attractiveness. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 21 

After the meal is over, remove all the dishes and 
brush off crumbs into a plate or tray; fold the 
cloth in the folds in which it was ironed. 

Use for Waste Fat. 

All fat not used for cooking purposes may be 
saved, and made into very good soap. Try out 
the fat, strain, and when cool, but while in a liquid 
state, pour it slowly over Babbitt's potash, which 
has been thoroughly dissolved with a little borax, in 
cold water, allowing one quart water, half a cup 
of borax and a one pound can of potash to two 
and a half quarts grease. After pouring in the 
grease, stir till the mixture thickens, and pour out 
into a large baking pan lined with paper. When 
hard, cut into cakes. 



22 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

CHAPTER II. 

MEASURING AND MIXING. 

In order to have good results in cooking, careful 
measurements are necessary. 

All recipes in this book call for level measure- 
ments, a spoonful of anything being a level spoon- 
ful. In measuring spoonfuls always use the back 
of a case knife in levelling off the material. Half 
a spoonful is a spoonful divided lengthwise of the 
spoon. Cups used for measuring should hold one 
half pint. To measure a cupful of flour or dry 
material, put it in with a spoon or scoop, and with- 
out shaking it down, round slightly and level off 
with a case knife. 

In measuring butter or lard pack solidly into cup 
or spoon, and level with a knife. 

The following abbreviations are made use of in 
the recipes: 

c. stands for cup. 

pt. stands for pint. 

qt. stands for quart. 

oz. stands for ounce. 

lb. stands for pound. 

tsp. stands for teaspoon. 

tbsp. stands for tablespoon. 

spk. stands for speck. 

m, stands for minute. 

hr. stands for hour. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 23 

Table of Weights and Measures. 

3 tsp. equals i tbsp. 

4 tbsp. equals }i c. 
2 gills equals I c. 
2 c. equals i pt. 

2 pts. equals i qt. 

4 c. sifted flour equals i lb. 

2 c. butter equals i lb. 

2 c, granulated sugar equals I lb. 

2 tbsp. sugar equals i oz. 

2 tbsp. liquid equals i oz. 

The proper combining of ingredients is of equal 
importance with accurate measuring. Stirring is 
the method used in most kinds of cooking, some- 
times alone, and sometimes followed by beating, as 
in cake-making. Stirring is done by a circular mo- 
tion, widening from center to outside. Stirring 
mires the ingredients. Beating is turning ingre- 
dients over and over, constantly bringing the 
under part to the top. Beating is done to make the 
mixture light by enclosing air. Cutting and fold- 
ing in, is done to blend one ingredient with another 
after each has been beaten till light. It is done by 
cutting down from top to bottom with a spoon and 
then carefully turning over the mixture from the 
bottom of the dish, till it comes to the top. This is 
used in making omelets and sponge cake. Only 
enough cutting and folding should be done to barely 
blend the ingredients that have already been beaten, 
as it is important that none of the air thus enclosed 
shall escape before the mixture is cooked. 



24 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

CHAPTER III. 

CEREALS AND MACARONI. 

Both cereals and macaroni are cheap and nu- 
tritious. All starchy foods like these should be 
thoroughly cooked. As a rule they require longer 
cooking than the time given in the directions on the 
outside of the package. The water should be boiling 
and salted, when the cereal, which should be stirred 
in with a fork, is slowly added. All should be al- 
lowed to cook over the fire for four or five min- 
utes, then covered and cooked over boiling water, 
to prevent burning down. When a double boiler is 
not at hand one may be made by using two sauce- 
pans, the smaller containing the cereal, being set 
within the larger, containing boiling water enough 
to reach to the bottom of the upper saucepan ; or a 
lard pail or tin can containing the cereal may be 
placed in a kettle containing boiling water, with a 
piece of iron or tin in the bottom of the kettle for 
the tin pail, or can to rest upon. While the cereal 
is cooking it should occasionally be carefully stirred 
from the bottom with a fork. As the water under- 
neath boils away more should be added. Hasty 
pudding or cornmeal mush can be made directly 
over the fire, by having the water boiling and salted, 
and by sifting in the meal gradually and then stir- 
ring constantly for twenty minutes to prevent bum- 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 



25 



ing. If cooked over boiling water three hours will 
be required. The meal may first be mixed till smooth 
with a little cold water and then the boiling water 
be added. In this way there is no danger of lump- 
ing. Cornmeal and oatmeal are both good winter 
cereals, but are too heat giving to be used alto- 
gether in summer. In very hot weather some of 
the wheat cereals should be used. 

Time Table for Cooking. 



Rolled or Quaker Oats 

Rolled Wheat 

Pettijohns 

H. O 

Germea 

Cream of Wheat 

Fine hominy 

Corn meal mush (hasty pudding) 

Rice, steamed 

Rice, boiled 

Old-fashioned oatmeal 

Cracked wheat 

Macaroni 



Cereal. 



I c. 
I c. 
I c. 
I c. 
I c. 
I c. 
I c. 
I c. 
I c. 
I c. 
1 c. 
I c. 
I c. 



Water. 



2ic. 
2 C. 
2 C. 
2 C. 
4C. 
4C. 
4C. 

3ic. 
2i to 3 c. 
2 qts. 
4iC. 
4C. 
2 qts. 



Salt. 



I tsp. 
I tsp. 
I tsp. 

1 tsp. 
li tsp. 
li tsp. 
li tsp. 

2 tsp. 
li tsp. 
I tbsp. 
ij tsp. 
li tsp. 
I tbsp. 



Time. 



45 minutes. 
40 minutes. 
40 minutes. 
45 minutes. 
40 minutes. 
40 minutes. 

i^ hours. 
3 hours, (a) 
45 to 60 minutes. 
25 to 30 minutes. 

4 hours. 

4i to 5 hours. 
30 to 40 minutes. 



(a) If cooked over hot water ; so to 25 minutes, if cooked over the fire. 

Rolled or Quaker Oats. 

I c. oats. 2%. c. boiling water. 

I tsp. salt. 



Have the water boiling and salted over the fire, 
then stir in the cereal very slowly with a fork. Let 
it cook for three or four minutes over the fire, then 
place over hot water, cover, and allow it to cook 
thirty-five minutes more, stirring occasionally with 



26 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

a fork, being careful not to break the grains. Any 
cereal is cooked in the same way. 

Steamed Rice. 

I c. rice. 25^ to 3 c. boiling water. 

ij4 tsp. salt. 

Measure rice, put it into a strainer, place strainer 
in a bowl and pour cold water through it. Change 
the water several times. Add the washed rice to the 
boiling salted water and let it cook two or three 
minutes, stirring with a fork to prevent its stick- 
ing, then place over hot water and let it cook forty- 
five minutes or till kernels are soft; uncover, and 
stir gently with a fork to let the steam escape. Pile 
on a hot dish and serve with meat for a vegetable, or 
serve with milk and sugar or syrup for a dessert. 

Steamed Rice and Cheese, 

Steam rice as in the first recipe, put in layers in 
a greased pudding dish with grated cheese between 
and on top. Place dish in the oven till cheese melts. 

Boiled Rice. 

I c. rice. 2 qts. boiling water. 

I tbsp. salt. 

Wash rice, add slowly to the boiling, salted water, 
and cook from twentv to twentv-five minutes or till 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 2'J 

kernels are soft. Pour into a strainer, drain and 
place on the stove shelf. Before serving stir gently 
with a fork to let the steam escape. 



Hasty Pudding. 

I c. yellow cornmeal. ^ tbsp. salt. 

3}^ c. boiling water. 

Have water salted and boiling, stir in meal very 
slowly, cook for twenty minutes, stirring constant- 
ly, or place over hot water and cook three hours, 
stirring occasionally. Eat hot, with milk or molasses, 
or pour into greased baking powder tins, cool, cover, 
and when ready to use cut in one-half-inch slices 
and fry in a little hot salt pork fat or beef dripping. 
Serve with meat, or as a dessert, with molasses or 
syrup. Any left over cereal may be fried in the 
same way. 

Maca/roni. 

Macaroni, spaghetti and vermicelli are made of 
wheat flour and water, made into a stiff paste, 
pressed through moulds which form it into tubes. 
It is then dried. Macaroni is a valuable food, as 
it is cheap and nutritious. Combined with cheese it 
forms a most nutritious food. It should always be 
thoroughly cooked in plenty of boiling, salted water 
or meat broth, as it swells very much in cooking. 



28 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Macaroni and White Sauce. 

% c. macaroni broken in one-half-inch pieces. 

2 qts. boiling water. 

I tbsp. salt. 

ij^ c. white sauce. 

Add salt and maparoni to the boiling water, and 
cook from twenty-five to forty minutes, or till soft, 
drain through a colander or sieve, pour cold water 
over to prevent its being sticky, drain, put into a 
hot dish and place on the stove shelf to keep hot. 
Heat lyi c. milk in the stewpan in which macaroni 
was cooked, and when it reaches the boiling point 
add 2 tbsp. flour, }^ tsp. salt and % tsp. pepper, 
mixed till smooth with ^4 c. milk; stir well and 
cook three or four minutes after it begins to boil. 
Add I tbsp. butter and pour sauce over the maca- 
roni. The butter may be omitted. 

Macaroni and Cheese. 

Put cooked macaroni in layers in a greased pud- 
ding dish with grated cheese and white sauce be- 
tween, having a thin layer of grated cheese on top. 
Place in the oven till cheese melts. If liked, buttered 
crumbs may be added before placing dish in the 
oven, and then allowed to brown delicately, or 
cheese may be omitted, and strained tomato, sea- 
soned with salt and pepper, used in place of the 
white sauce. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 29 

CHAPTER IV. 

VEGETABLES. 

Always select vegetables that are fresh. Never 
buy wilted or partially decayed ones, mo matter 
how cheap, as they are unwholesome and dear at 
any price. Always thoroughly wash, and, usually, 
either pare, peel or scrape vegetables, before boil- 
ing. New potatoes may be cooked in their skins. 
Beets must not be scraped, as the juice escapes when 
the skin is broken. As soon as vegetables are pre- 
pared for boiling they should be put in cold water 
till water in which they are to be cooked boils. Old 
potatoes are improved by soaking in cold water for 
an hour or two. The boiling water in which veg- 
etables are to be cooked should usually be salted. 
Allow one tablespoonful salt to two quarts water. 
Vegetables should always be cooked till they are 
tender. Too much cooking sometimes renders green 
vegetables hard. This is especially true of green 
corn and asparagus. 

Time Table for Baking. 

Beans, dried 2 to 8 hours. 

Potatoes 45 to 60 minutes. 

Sweet potatoes 35 to 45 minutes. 

Squash 30, to 35 minutes. 



30 



HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Time Table for Boiling. 

Asparagus 20 to 30 minutes. 

Beans, shelled ij/^ to 2 hours. 

Beans, string i to 2 hours. 

Beets, old 3 to 4 hours. 

Beets, young i to 134 hours. 

Cabbage 30 to 60 minutes. 

Carrots 35 to 50 minutes. 

Cauliflower 25 to 35 minutes. 

Green corn 10 to 15 minutes. 

Kale I to iy2 hours. 

Onions 50 to 60 minutes. 

Parsnips 35 to 50 minutes. 

Peas 25 to 40 minutes. 

Potatoes 25 to 40 minutes. 

Sweet potatoes 20 to 30 minutes. 

Spinach 30 to 40 minutes. 



Baked Potatoes. 

Thoroughly wash the potatoes, and bake in a 
hot oven about forty-five minutes, or till potatoes 
are soft. When done, break open the skins to let 
the steam escape. If any potatoes are left over, 
peel them while warm, and save them to warm 
over. 

Boiled Potatoes. 

Wash and pare six potatoes of about the same 
size, and soak for one hour or more in cold water, 
to cover. Then put the potatoes in boiling, salted. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 3 1 

water, allowing i tbsp. salt for two quarts of water 
and boil one-half hour, or till tender. Drain very 
dry, remove cover at once and shake gently over 
the fire till potatoes are mealy. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Mash the six potatoes, after draining very dry, in 
the kettle in which they were boiled. Add ^ tsp. 
salt, a spk. of pepper, i/^ tbsp. butter and enough 
hot milk to moisten. Beat with a fork till white and 
creamy, and pile lightly in a hot dish. 

Potato Cakes. 

Shape cold mashed potato in small cakes. Heat 
a frying pan, put in a little beef dripping or butter 
and when fat is hot put in the cakes; when brown 
on one side, turn and brown the other side. Use 
as little fat as possible. 

Creamed Potatoes. 

Yi c. milk. 

2 c. cold boiled potatoes cut in cubes. 

I tsp. salt. y^ tsp. pepper. 

I tbsp. chopped parsley. 2 tsp. butter. 

Put milk in a frying pan and when hot add po- 
tato; cook till milk is nearly absorbed, and then 
add seasoning, butter and chopped parsley. 



32 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Scalloped Potatoes, 

Wash, pare and slice raw potatoes. Put a layer 
in a baking dish ; sprinkle with a little salt and pep- 
per ; dot over with butter and sprinkle slightly with 
flour. Continue this until the dish is nearly full, 
then half cover with milk. Bake one hour, keeping 
the dish closely covered for the first half hour. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. 

6 cold boiled potatoes. 
tV tsp. pepper. ^ tsp. salt. 

3 tbsp. butter, beef dripping, or pork fat. 

I tbsp. finely chopped onion. 

I tbsp. finely chopped parsley. 

Cut potatoes into one-half-inch dice, and sprinkle 
with the salt and pepper. Melt the butter or drip- 
ping in a frying pan, add the chopped onion and 
cook until onion is golden brown, stirring constantly 
with a fork. Add potatoes and stir occasionally 
with a fork till potatoes have absorbed the fat and 
become slightly brown. Just before serving, add 
parsley, i tbsp. of vinegar may also be added if 
liked. 

Roast Potatoes. 

Wash and pare medium-sized potatoes, cook for 
ten minutes in boiling salted water, drain, place in a 
baking pan in which meat is roasting, and cook for 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 33 

forty-five minutes, or till they are tender and brown. 
Baste when basting the meat. 

Potato Salad. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in one-half-inch cubes, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, add a very little onion 
juice and mix with a little chopped parsley. Moist- 
en well with salad dressing and form into a mound 
on a platter. Over the top arrange cold boiled beets, 
that have stood in vinegar a short time, and then 
been cut in small cubes. 



Salad Dressing, 

Yi tbsp. salt. Few grains cayenne. 

J^ tbsp. mustard. i ^%'g. 
V/i tbsp. sugar. 2 tbsp. melted butter. 
I tbsp. flour. J4 c. milk. 

% c. vinegar. 

Mix salt, mustard, sugar, flour and cayenne, add 
^^^ slightly beaten, the melted butter and milk. 
Add vinegar slowly and cook all, over hot water for 
about eight minutes, or till the mixture thickens, 
stirring all the time. Strain and cool. 

German Potato Salad, 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in rather thick slices, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and add a few drops 



34 Hartley house cook book 

of onion juice. To get the juice, hold a tin grater 
over the potatoes and rub a peeled onion on the 
rough surface, using a circular motion. Cut a few 
slices of bacon in small pieces and cook them in 
a hot frying pan till the fat has tried out and the 
bacon is brown and crisp ; add bacon and fat to the 
potatoes. Heat enough vinegar mixed with an 
equal amount of water to moisten the salad, letting it 
boil up once. When vinegar is slightly cooled pour 
it over the potatoes, mixing carefully, so that the 
slices will remain whole. Put away in a cold place 
till ready to serve. 

To Prepare Lettuce for a Salad. 

Pick off and wash the leaves separately in cold 
water. Drain and keep in a cold place till ready to 
use. Lettuce should be prepared but a short time 
before it is to be used. 

Mashed Turnips. 

Wash and pare the turnips, cook in boiling, salted 
water till they are tender. Drain very dry, mash 
thoroughly and season to taste with butter, salt and 
pepper. Beat well and put into a hot serving dish. 

Boiled Onions. 

Peel onions, soak for a little while in cold water, 
theh cook in boiling, salted water ; change the water 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 35 

after they have cooked for ten minutes. When 
tender, drain, and pour boiling water over them, and 
again drain. Take out in a hot dish, and season 
with butter, salt and pepper, or pour a white sauce 
over them. Serve hot. For white sauce see Chap- 
ter XIIL 

Boiled Carrots, 

Wash and scrape carrots, cut in halves and cook 
in boiling, salted water forty-five minutes, or till 
soft ; drain, cut in slices, butter slightly and sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, or cut in slices and pour a 
white sauce over them. 

Boiled Beets. 

Wash, but do not scrape, and cook in boiling 
water from one to four hours, or until soft. Drain 
and put in cold water, that skins may be easily taken 
off. Cut in slices, sprinkle with salt and pepper or 
cover with vinegar. 

Boiled Cabbage, 

Take off outside leaves, cut in quarters and throw 
away tough stalk. Soak in cold water, and then 
cook in a kettle of boiling, salted water, to which 
% tsp. baking soda has been added. Cook from 
thirty-five to forty-five minutes, with cover off. 
Cooking the cabbage uncovered prevents disagree- 
able odor. The cabbage may be cooked with corned 
beef. 



36 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Cabbage Salad or Cold Slaw. 

Select a small, heavy cabbage, take off outside 
leaves, cut in quarters, and shred very thinly with 
a sharp knife, or take out tough stalk and chop cab- 
bage ; put in cold water and soak till crisp, drain and 
when dry mix with salad dressing, as given in po- 
tato salad. 

German Cabbage. 

1 red cabbage. Tiny grating of nutmeg. 

2 tbsp. butter or bacon fat. Few grains cayenne. 
I tbsp. chopped onion. 3 tbsp. vinegar. 

y2 tsp. salt. 2 tsp. sugar. 

Slice cabbage as for the salad, soak in cold water 
for half an hour, melt butter in a large stewpan, add 
chopped onion, salt, nutmeg and cayenne. Cook 
till onion is slightly browned, add cabbage, with 
the water which clings to it, cover, and cook till 
cabbage is tender. Add vinegar and sugar and cook 
five minutes more. One or two tart apples, pared, 
cored and sliced may be cooked with the cabbage. 

Boiled Spinach. 

Pick over and throw away all roots, stems and 
decayed leaves, wash in several waters, till water is 
clear, put in a kettle or large stewpan with barely 
enough hot water to cover the bottom. Heat slow- 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 37 

ly, and then cook the spinach in its own juices from 
thirty to thirty-five minutes, or till tender. Drain, 
season with a little butter, salt and pepper. The 
spinach may be chopped before seasonings are 
added, and reheated before serving. A small piece 
of pork may be cooked with spinach and the butter 
be omitted. 

Kale, 

Kale is much cheaper than spinach, and by many 
liked as well. Strip off leaves, throwing away 
stalks. Wash in several waters, and cook till ten- 
der in boiling water to cover. Season and serve like 
spinach. A little salt pork or ham cooked with the 
kale improves the flavor. 

Dandelion Greens, 

Wash thoroughly, as in case of spinach or kale. 
Cook an hour or more with a small piece of salt 
pork in boiling hot water to cover. Beet or other 
greens are cooked in the same way. 

CauMower, 

Remove outside leaves, cut off stalk and soak 
cauliflower one-half hour with head down in cold 
water to cover. Cook with the head up in boiling, 
salted water for twenty-five minutes or till tender. 
Drain, place in a hot dish and pour over it one or 
one and a half cups white sauce, made according to 
the rule given for milk toast. The flowerets may 
be separated before cooking if liked. 



38 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Asparagus. 

Untie bunches, wash and break each stalk as far 
down as it can be broken, into inch pieces ; cook in 
barely enough salted water to cover for fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Season with butter and serve in 
the liquor in which it was cooked. 

Green Shell Beans. 

Shell, wash and cook in boiling water from one 
to two and a half hours, using only enough water to 
cover beans. Season with butter, salt and pepper. 
Instead of using butter in seasoning, a small piece of 
salt pork may be cooked with the beans. 

String Beans. 

Take oflf strings, cut in one-inch pieces, wash and 
cook in boiling water from one to three hours. Use 
as little water as possible in the cooking and serve 
beans in it. Season like shell beans. To save butter, 
a small piece of pork may be cooked with the beans. 

Peas, 

Shell peas, cover with cold water and skim off 
what rises to the top. Cook in a small quantity of 
boiling water from twenty minutes to an hour or till 
tender. Season with butter and salt and serve in 
the liquor in which they were cooked. Peas may also 
be cooked with a small piece of pork to save butter. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 39 



Dried Vegetables. 

Peas, beans and lentils are rich in muscle-making 
material and may sometimes be used as substitutes 
for meat. 

Pork and Beans Baked. 

I qt. white beans. 2 tbsp. molasses. 

^2 lb. pork. I tbsp. salt. 

y2 tsp. soda. 

Soak beans over night in cold water. In the 
morning drain off water, add fresh water to cover 
and put on to boil with pork slashed in four or five 
places. Boil slowly till soft, not mashed, add mo- 
lasses, salt and soda, put in a deep pan and bake 
from one and a half to two hours. 

Boston Baked Beans. 

1 qt. pea beans. i tbsp. salt. 

^ lb. salt pork, J^ tbsp. mustard, 

streaked with lean. ^/^ c. molasses. 

2 c. hot water, or enough to cover beans. 

r*ick over and wash beans, soak over night in 
cold water to cover. In the morning drain, cover 
with fresh water, and parboil slowly till beans are 
soft enough to pierce with a pin, being careful that 
they do not boil to pieces. 



40 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Drain and put beans in bean pot. Scald and 
scrape pork and cut through rind in half-inch strips. 
Bury pork in beans ; mix salt, mustard, molasses and 
hot water and pour over beans. Cover and bake 
slowly for six or eight hours. Add more hot water 
as needed. Uncover for the last hour and lift up 
the pork that it may become crisp and brown. Sugar 
may be used in place of molasses if preferred. 

Stewed Beans. 

I qt. beans. ^ lb. salt pork streaked with lean. 
Salt if needed. 

Soak beans over night, drain oflf water, put in a 
kettle or stewpan with the pork and enough water to 
cover, and cook slowly on the stove for four or five 
hours or till beans are tender. Add salt to taste. 
If water boils away add more. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. ^I 

CHAPTER V. 

VEGETABLE SOUPS. 

Potato Soup No. I. 

3 medium-sized potatoes. >2 tbsp. salt. 
I pt. milk. }i tsp. pepper. 

I pt. water. ^ tsp. celery salt. 

Slice of onion. 2 tbsp. flour. 

y2 tbsp. butter. 

Wash and pare potatoes, cook in boiling, salted 
water till they are tender, drain and mash in the 
kettle in which they were cooked, add hot water, 
salt, pepper and celery salt. Scald the milk and 
while scalding cook the onion in it. Take out onion 
and add scalded milk to the soup. Mix flour with 
a little cold water and stir it into the boiling soup. 
Let all boil for three or four minutes, stirring all 
the time. Add butter just before taking from the 
fire. The butter may be omitted. 

Potato Soup No. 2. 

3 potatoes. iy2 tbsp. butter. 

I pt. milk. 2 tbsp. flour. 

Slice of onion. i>^ tsp. salt. 

I c. hot water. yi tsp. celery salt. 

}i tsp. pepper. 



42 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Wash and pare potatoes; cook in boiling salted 
water till they are tender. Scald milk with the 
onion. Mash potatoes; add scalded milk and hot 
water; rub through a strainer and put on to boil. 
When soup boils, melt butter in a saucepan and 
stir in flour, salt, pepper, and celery salt, add 
enough of the boiling soup to the flour and butter 
to make it pour easily, and then add it to»the boil- 
ing soup, stirring for two or three minutes. A little 
chopped parsley may be added. 

The second method gives a more delicious soup. 



Bean Soup. 

1^2 c. dried beans. ^^ tsp. celery salt. 

2 qts. cold water. i tbsp. salt. 

I small onion. % tsp. pepper. 

Stalk of celery ; or, 3^ tbsp. flour. 

2 tbsp. butter. 



Soak beans over night or for several hours in 
cold water to cover. Drain and put into a stewpan 
or kettle with the cold water, sliced onion and cel- 
ery. Cook slowly for three hours or till beans are 
very soft, adding more water as it boils away. Rub 
through a strainer, return to the kettle and when 
soup boils add seasoning and thicken with flour 
mixed with a little cold water. The butter may be 
omitted. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 43 

Baked Becm Soup. 

A good soup may be made of left over baked 
beans. 

1 pt. cold baked beans. 2 tbsp. butter. 
3 pts. cold water. 3 tbsp. flour. 
J/2 small onion. 2 tsp. salt. 

y2 tsp. celery salt. }i tsp. pepper. 

Put beans, cold water and onion in a kettle, and 
cook slowly for one hour or till beans are very soft. 
Rub all but the skins through a strainer, and put 
on to boil again. Add seasoning and thicken as you 
do the plain bean soup or potato soup No. 2. The 
latter method gives a more richly flavored soup. 
One cup strained tomato or i tbsp. Chili sauce may 
be added before thickening, if desired. 

Cream of Dried Lima Bean Soup. 

iy2 c. dried Lima beans. 4 tbsp. flour. 

2 qts. cold water. 3 tbsp. butter. 
I pt. milk. >4 tbsp. salt. 

%. tsp. pepper. 

Soak beans for several hours in cold water 
to cover, drain, add the two qts. cold water with the 
onion and cook slowly till beans are soft, rub 
through a strainer and return to the soup kettle. 
Scald and add the milk and seasonings. When soup 
boils, thicken by adding flour cooked in the melted 
butter, or mixed till smooth with a little cold water. 



44 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Split Pea Soup. 

1 c. split peas. 2 tbsp. butter. 
2j^ qts. cold water. 2^ tbsp. flour. 

2 slices onion. J^ tbsp. salt. 

I pt. hot milk. ^ tsp. pepper. 

^ tsp. celery salt. 

Pick over and wash peas, soak over night or 
for several hours in cold water to cover. Drain, add 
the cold water and onion. Simmer three or four 
hours or until peas are soft. Rub through a strain- 
er and put on to boil again, add hot milk, salt, pep- 
per and celery salt, and thicken with the flour cooked 
with the butter. A ham bone cooked with the peas 
improves the flavor of the soup. One-fourth pound 
salt pork may be cooked with the peas, the butter 
omitted, and soup thickened with the flour mixed 
with a little cold water. More water may be used 
and the milk omitted. 

Lentil Soup. 

1 c. lentils. 2 tbsp. butter. 

2 qts. cold water. 2^ tbsp. flour. 
J^ small onion. J4 tbsp. salt. 

3 c. hot milk. ^ tsp. celery salt. 
Or stalk of celery cooked with the lentils. 

y% tsp. pepper. 

Wash and soak lentils ; make like split pea soup. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 45 

Cream of Carrot Soup. 

I qt. milk. 2 large carrots. 

I pt. of the water in which carrots were cooked. 

4 tbsp. flour. i^ tbsp. salt. 

3 tbsp. butter. y^ tsp. pepper. 

Wash and scrape the carrots, cut in slices; cook 
in boiling water for one-half hour or till soft; rub 
through a coarse strainer, and put on to boil with i 
pt. of the water in which they were cooked and the 
milk. Thicken with the flour cooked in the butter, 
add salt and pepper and serve at once. 

Cream of Tomato Soup, 

1 qt. milk. j4 tsp. pepper. 

5 tbsp. flour. 2 tbsp. butter. 

2 tsp. salt. y can hot strained tomato, oi] 
ij^ c. fresh stewed and strained tomato. 

Scald milk and thicken with the flour mixed 
with a little cold water, cook over hot water twenty 
minutes, stirring constantly at first, add butter, salt 
and pepper ; stew and strain tomatoes, remove from 
the fire and pour the hot, white sauce over them; 
mix well and servs at once. If the white sauce and 
tomato are put together in this way the soup will 
never curdle. 



46 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 



CHAPTER VI. 

MEAT. 

Meat is the flesh or muscle of animals. It is a 
strength-giving and muscle-making food. The 
flesh of the ox, steer, heifer and cow is called beef. 
That of the calf is known as veal, the flesh of the 
sheep as mutton, that of the lamb as lamb, and that 
of the pig as pork. Meat is the most nutritious of 
all foods. A piece of meat is composed of fat and 
muscle. The muscle is made up of little bunches of 
hollow fiber containing a red juice. These bunches 
of fiber are held together by a thin membrane called 
connective tissue. As the juice contains most of 
the strength-giving part of the meat, meat should 
always be cooked in such a way as to retain the 
juice. Cuts of meat having muscles that were much 
used when the animal was alive contain more juice 
than those from parts where muscles were used 
less. They are, therefore, more strength-giving, 
though tougher and less expensive. Only compara- 
tively tender meat should be broiled or roasted. The 
tougher portions can be made tender by long, slow 
cooking. Gelatin is a substance found in bones, 
tendons and gristly parts of meat. Gelatin is dis- 
solved by long, slow cooking, and as it gives flavor 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 47 

and consistency to soups and stews, some bone is 
always used in their preparation. 

In selecting meat see that it is firm and fine- 
grained, and if beef that it is well mottled with fat 
and bright red in color. The lean of good veal is 
light pink, or flesh-colored, and the fat white and 
clear. Mutton and lamb rank next to beef in their 
strength-giving qualities. Veal and pork are less 
nutritious and harder to digest than other meat 
and should be used less frequently. Fresh pork 
should never be eaten in warm weather. Salt pork, 
bacon and ham are less objectionable than fresh 
pork. Bacon, next to butter, is the most easily di- 
gested form of fat. As soon as meat comes from 
the market the paper in which it was wrapped should 
be taken off, as paper absorbs the juice. Cover the 
meat and keep it in a cold place, till ready to use it. 
Never put it on ice without a plate under it. Do 
not wash meat, but wipe with a damp cloth, as 
washing, draws out some of the juice. 



General Rules for Cooking, 

For boiling, plunge meat into boiling water and 
let it boil for eight or ten minutes in order to quick- 
ly cook the outside, so that the juice inside will not 
escape. Then set back on the stove where there 
is sufficient heat to keep the water just below the 
boiling point and cook till meat is tender. Meat 
cooked in this way will be tender and juicy inside, 



48 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

when, if boiled rapidly, it will be tough, dry and 
flavorless. 

In boiling corned beef, or any very salt meat, 
where it is necessary to draw out some of the salt, 
the meat should be put into cold, rather than into 
boiling water, and should have the same long, slow 
cooking as fresh meat. 

For broths or beef tea, where the object is to draw 
out the juices, the meat should be cut in small 
pieces, put in cold water and cooked below the boil- 
ing point. For stews, the meat and bones should be 
cut small, covered with boiling water and cooked 
very slowly. For broiling, bright red coals are nec- 
essary to give an intense heat to quickly cook the 
outside of meat, thus preventing escape of juices. 
The broiler holding the meat should be frequently 
turned. A properly broiled piece of meat is 
browned nicely on the outside and the whole in- 
side is red and juicy. Pan-broiling is a good meth- 
od of cooking steaks and chops, when a bed of coals 
for broiling is not available. The frying pan, in 
which the meat is to be cooked, must be very hot 
when the meat is put in, and meat must be fre- 
quently turned, the same principle applying here as 
in broiling. For roasting great heat is needed at 
first to sear over the outside of the meat, after which 
the heat may be reduced. It can readily be seen 
that the smaller the roast the greater the heat may 
be. If a very large roast is exposed to an intense 
heat, the outside will become burned before the heat 
can reach the inside. The time for cooking meats 
depends so much upon the size, cut, thickness. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 49 

amount of surface exposed and quality of the meat 
that it is impossible to give exact rules. The follow- 
ing table will, however, be a partial guide. Veal 
and pork need longer cooking than beef, and for 
roasting, do not require as hot an oven. 



50 



HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Time Table for Cooking Meats. 
Boiling. 

Neck of mutton, per pound. ... 15 to i8 minutes. 

Shoulder of mutton, per pound. 15 minutes. 

Corned beef, per pound 30 minutes. 

Ham, per pound 30 minutes. 

Corned tongue, per pound 30 minutes. 

Fresh tongue, per pound 25 minutes. 

Roasting. 

Beef rib, rare, per pound 8 to 10 minutes. 

Beef rib, well done, per pound. 12 to 14 minutes. 

Beef rib, rolled, rare, per pound. 12 minutes. 
Beef rib, rolled, well done, per 

pound 15 minutes. 

Beef, top of sirloin, rare, per lb. 12 minutes. 
Beef, top of sirloin well done 

per pound 15 minutes. 

Beef, top round, rare, per pound. 12 minutes. 
Beef, top round, well done, per 

pound 15 minutes. 

Beef, cross ribs, rare, per pound. 12 minutes. 
Beef, cross ribs, well done, per 

pound 15 minutes. 

Shoulder of mutton, per pound. 18 to 20 minutes. 

Leg of mutton, per pound 15 to 18 minutes. 

Leg or breast of veal, per pound. 30 minutes. 

Pork, sparerib 01 loiii, per pound. 25 minutes. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. SI 



Broiling. 

Beefsteak, one inch thick 5 to 7 minutes. 

Beefsteak, ij^ inches thick 10 to 15 minutes. 

Chops 6 to 8 minutes. 



The following diagrams of the ox, calf, sheep 
and pig show the position of the different cuts of 
beef, veal, mutton, and pork as they are sold in 
the New York markets ; but a thorough knowledge 
of the subject can only be gained by frequent visits 
to the market, and a careful study of the cuts them- 
selves. A butcher is usually willing to help his 
customers in such study. 



52 



HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 




Chart Showing Cuts of Beef. 
Hind Quarter. 

WAYS OF COOKING. AVERAGE PRICE. 

1 Shank, stews 8 cts. 

2 Round, top, steaks, beef tea. . . i6 cts. 
Bottom, Hamburg steaks, pot 

roast, stews 12 to 14 cts. 

3 Rump, pot roasts, Hamburg 

steaks, stews 12^ to 14 cts. 

4 Loin — 

a Tenderloin. 

b Sirloin, steaks 18 to 20 cts. 

c Porterhouse, steaks 22 cts. 

d Top of sirloin, roasts and 

steaks 15 cts. 

5 Flank, stuffed, rolled and 

stewed, or corned 8 cts. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 53 



Fore Quarter. 

WAYS OF COOKING. AVERAGE PRICE. 

PER LB. 

6 Prime ribs, roasts 17 cts. 

7 Chuck ribs, roasts, steaks, stews. 10 to 12 cts. 

8 Neck, stews, mince meat 8 to 9 cts. 

9 Cross ribs, roasts, steaks 14 cts. 

10 Shoulder, pot roasts, stews... 10 to 12 cts. 

11 Brisket, corning 10 cts. 

12 Plate, corning 8 cts. 

13 Shin, soups and stews 8 cts. 

Other Parts of Beef Used for Food. 

WAYS OF COOKING. AVERAGE PRICE. 

Tongue, boiled fresh or corned. . 16 cts. 

Heart, stuffed and baked 12 cts. each. 

Liver, broiled or fried 8 cts. per lb. 

Kidneys, stewed 10 cts. each. 

Suet, fried out for shortening and 

for frying 8 cts. per lb. 

Tripe, broiled or fried 6 cts. lb. 

Tail, soups 8 to 10 cts. each. 



54 



HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 




Chart Showing Cuts of Veal. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 55 



Veal. 

WAYS OF COOKING. AVERAGE PRICE. 

PER. LB. 

1 Head, boiled and served with 

the pluck or liver 40 to 45 cts. each. 

2 Neck, stews 10 cts. per lb. 

3 Shoulder, stuffed and roasted. . 10 to 13 cts. 

4 Ribs or rack, chops I2j^ cts. 

5 Loin, chops and roasts 16 cts. 

6 Breast, roast I2j^ cts. 

7 Hind leg, roasted or sliced for 

cutlets to fry 20 cets. per lb. 

8 Hind shin or knuckle, stews . . 20 cts. each. 

9 Fore shin or knuckle, stews ... 20 cts, each. 

Other Parts of Animal Used for Food, 

Brains, boiled and served in white sauce. 
Pluck or liver, broiled, boiled or 

baked 12 cts. per lb. 

Heart, stuffed and baked 10 cts. each. 

Tongue, boiled 20 to 30 cts. each. 

Lungs or lights, stewed 5 cts. per pair. 

Sweetbreads, cooked in boiling 

water 75 cts. per pair. 



56 



HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 




Chart Showing Cuts of Mutton or Lamb. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. S7 

WAYS OF COOKING. AVERAGE PRICE. 

1 Neck, stews and broths.... 8 cts. lb. 

2 Chuck, stews and broths... 8 cts. lb. 

3 Shoulder, stuffed and roasted lo cts. lb. 

4 Loin and ribs, chops and 

roasts i8 cts. lb. 

5 Breast, stews 8 cts. lb. 

6 Leg, roasted or boiled whole, 

or part cut in chops lo to 12 cts. lb. 

Other Parts Used for Food. 

Tongue 5 cts. each. 

Heart 5 cts. each. 



58 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 




Chart Showing Cuts of Pork. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. '59 

WAYS OF COOKING. AVERAGE PRICE, 

1 Head, for hog'shead cheese 4 cts. per lb. 

2 Neck and shoulder, roasted 

fresh, or cured and salted 
for ham, fresh, 10 cts., 
salted I2>^ cts. per lb. 

3 Back, all fat close to back 

bone, salted and used for 

frying I2>^ cts. per lb. 

4 Ribs and loin, fresh chops 

and roasts 8 to 14 cts. lb. 

5 Ham, sometimes roasted 

fresh, but usually cured, 
salted and boiled, broiled 
or fried, fresh, 12 cts., 
salted 14 cts. per lb. 

6 Belly, cured, salted and 

smoked for bacon 13 cts. per lb. 

7 Feet, pickled and boiled, 

forefeet, 6 cts. per lb., 

hind 3 cts. each. 



Other Parts of Animal Used for Food. 

Leaves of fat tried out into 

lard for frying 5 to 8 cts. per lb. 

Liver, broiled, fried or stewed. 12 cts. per lb. 



60 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Roast Beef. 

The top of the sirloin, the cross ribs, (sometimes 
called shoulder clod) and the best cut of the top 
round, are very satisfactory pieces for roasting. 
They are juicy and well flavored, and beside cost- 
ing less per pound, than the best rib roasts, contain 
no waste, as they are solid meat. 

Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, rub over with 
salt and flour, place on a rack or on wooden skewers 
in a dripping pan and put into a hot oven. If liked 
rare, allow meat to cook for twelve minutes to the 
pound and twelve minutes extra for it to become 
heated through. Baste often, with some of the fat, 
as it melts. If the fat begins to burn, a little hot 
water may be added to the pan. After the flour 
has browned the heat may be reduced. When meat 
is done, take it up on a hot platter, add hot water 
to the browned juices in the pan, thicken with flour 
smoothly mixed with a little cold water and let it 
cook thoroughly, stirring all the time. Season with 
salt and pepper, and strain for gravy. Another 
way of making gravy is to pour off some of the fat 
after taking up the meat, place dripping pan on 
front of stove, add three or four tablespoons of 
flour, stir till brown and add gradually enough boil- 
ing water to make the gravy the right thickness, 
stirring all the time to prevent lumping. Season 
with salt and pepper and if not perfectly smooth, 
strain. The last method gives a richer, browner 
gravy. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 6l 

Broiled Steak. 

The second or third slice from the top round, or 
first slice from top sirloin are both good for broiling. 
Steaks should always be cut at least one inch thick. 
Wipe meat with a damp cloth, grease inside of the 
broiler with a piece of the fat, place meat in broiler, 
having fat edge come next the handle. Broil over 
clear coals, turning every ten seconds for first two 
minutes and then turning occasionally till browned 
on each side. A steak cut one inch thick will broil in 
from five to seven minutes if liked rare. Take out 
on a hot platter, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

Pan-broiled Steak. 

Wipe meat and take off all the fat ; heat a frying 
pan very hot, rub it over with a piece of the fat, put 
in the steak, and cook for about five minutes, turning 
the meat every ten seconds at first and then letting 
it brown on each side. Take up on a hot platter, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and keep hot while 
cooking the fat. Pan-broiling must not be con- 
fused with frying, and only enough fat should be 
used to prevent steak from sticking to the pan. 
Steaks must never be fried, as frying dries up the 
juices and renders the meat tough and indigestible. 

Pan-broiled Meat Cakes. 

Chop tough, raw meat very fine, season with salt, 
pepper, and a few drops of onion juice if liked. 



62 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Shape into small, round, flat cakes. Then heat a 
frying pan very hot, rub it over with a piece of fat, 
put in the cakes, and let them cook about four min- 
utes, turning every ten seconds at first, and then let- 
ting them brown on each side. 

Pan-broiled Chops. 

Wipe and trim the chops and cook like meat cakes. 

Pot Roast. 

Sprinkle a solid four or five pound piece of beef, 
from the rump, bottom round, or shoulder, with salt, 
rub over with flour, and sear the surface by placing 
the meat in a hot frying pan with a little fat and 
turning till browned. Then put in a kettle with 
one cup boiling water, cover closely to keep in the 
steam, place back on the stove and cook slowly for 
several hours till meat is tender. As the water 
cooks away, add barely enough more to keep the 
meat from burning. After taking up the meat, add 
more hot water, thicken with flour mixed with a lit- 
tle cold water and season with salt and pepper, for 
gravy. All tough meats require a long, slow cook- 
ing. 

Rolled Flank of Beef. 

Remove skin and extra fat from three pounds of 
flank. Make a stuffing with i cup crumbs, 2 tbsp. 
chopped salt pork, or a little melted butter, y^ tsp. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 63 

salt, I tsp. sage and a little pepper, mixed with 
enough milk or water to moisten. Spread it over 
the meat, roll up, tying or sewing it to keep in the 
stuffing, and cook like the pot roast, using more 
water. 

Toad in the Hole, 



I lb. round steak. 


I c. flour. 


I pt. milk. 


I ^m- 


I tsp. salt. 





Cut the steak into one-half inch dice, put into a 
two quart pudding dish, and sprinkle well with salt 
and pepper. Beat tgg till very light, add salt and 
milk and pour gradually upon the flour, pressing out 
all the lumps. Beat with an Qgg beater, till mix- 
ture is very light and smooth, and then pour it over 
the meat. Bake in a slow oven from an hour to an 
hour and a half. Mutton, lamb or small slices of 
bacon rolled, may be used in place of beef. 

Meat Pie, 

2 lbs. bottom round of beef. 
4 tbsp. flour. 2 c. boiling water. 

I tsp. salt. }i tsp. pepper. 

Wipe meat, cut it in one-inch pieces and arrange 
in layers in a pudding dish, sprinkling each layer 
with some of the flour mixed with the salt and 
pepper. Add the boiling water, cover closely, with 



64 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

an old plate, and cook slowly in the oven tor three 
hours, or till the meat is tender, but not cooked to 
pieces. If water boils away, add more. Remove 
from the oven and make a crust of baking powder 
biscuit dough, using: 

2 c. flour. I tsp. salt. 

33^ tsp. baking powder. 3 tbsp. butter or lard. 

Milk to moisten, (about ^ cup). 

Take out the dough on a floured board, roll out 
one-half inch thick, cut hole in the center and put 
crust loosely over the top of the meat, having the 
edge fit closely to the inside of the dish. Put back 
in a hot oven and bake about twenty minutes till 
crust is nicely browned. 

Any remnants of cold cooked meat may be cut 
up small, seasoned with salt and pepper, well mois- 
tened with gravy, covered with a crust and baked in 
this way. Remains of a stew may also be used. 

Beef Roll 

ij4 lbs. raw beef from bottom round or shoulder. 
I tsp. salt. Few drops onion juice. 

Yi c. stale bread crumbs. i beaten tgg. 
Shake of pepper. Water if needed to moisten. 

Have meat finely chopped, and mix it with other 
ingredients. Shape into a roll or loaf put into a 
baking pan and bake thirty minutes. Baste every 
few minutes with a little butter melted in hot water. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 65 

Serve with tomato sauce or brown gravy. If to be 
served with gravy, the meat may be seasoned with 
a little sage if liked. 



Tomato Sauce. 

I half can strained tomato or i^ c. stewed fresh 
tomatoes. 23^ tbsp. flour. 

2 tbsp. butter. ^2 tsp. salt. 

I tbsp. chopped onion. }i tsp. pepper. 

Melt butter in a saucepan and cook in it the 
chopped onion till onion is golden brown, then stir 
in flour mixed with salt and pepper, stir till smooth, 
remove from the fire and when cool add cold 
strained tomato. Put back over the fire and stir till 
the mixture thickens and boils. 

Stewed Beef Liver. 

Cut one pound of liver into one-inch blocks, pour 
boiling water over it, let stand three or four minutes, 
drain, put in a saucepan with a slice of onion, i tsp. 
salt, y% tsp. pepper, i tbsp. catsup and i quart boil- 
ing water. Cover closely, and cook slowly till liver 
is tender. Then melt 2 tbsp. butter in another 
saucepan and cook in it 23^ tbsp. flour, till flour and 
butter are browned, add gradually the gravy from 
the liver, stirring constantly till thick and smooth. 
Take liver into a hot dish and pour the browned 
gravy over it. 



66 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Beef Stew With Dumplings, 

2 lbs. upper part of shin with the bone. 

3 pts. boiling water. 3 potatoes. 

I small turnip. }/2 tbsp. salt. 

I small carrot. y% tsp. pepper. 

I small onion. J^ bay leaf. 

\ c. flour for thickening. 



Have meat cut in one and a half inch pieces, wipe 
meat and bone with a damp cloth, and sprinkle meat 
with a little salt and flour. Put some of the fat 
in a hot frying pan and when tried out, add meat, 
turning often, till well browned. Then put in a ket- 
tle with the bones, add boiling water, rinsing out 
frying pan with some of it, that none of the good- 
ness of the meat be wasted. Let meat boil for five 
minutes; then set back on the stove where water 
will just bubble and cook slowly for two hours. 
Then add onion, carrot and turnip which have been 
peeled, scraped or pared, and cut in one-half-inch 
cubes and cook for another hour. About twenty 
minutes before serving time add potatoes which 
have been washed, pared, cut in thick slices and 
soaked for half an hour in cold water. Twelve 
minutes before stew is done put in dumplings on a 
greased perforated tin pie plate, or in a steamer, 
cover closely, and do not lift the cover until time is 
up, A little hot strained tomato may be added. , 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 67 



Dumplings. 

I pt. flour. I tsp. salt. 

3J^ tsp. baking powder. i tbsp. shortening. 
Milk (about ^ c.) for a soft dough. 
Mix and roll out like biscuit. 

Ox Tail Soup. 

I ox tail. I tsp. celery salt. 

1 onion. }/2 tbsp. salt. 
Sprig of parsley. }i tsp. pepper. 

2 qts. cold water. 

I tsp. mixed herbs (savory, thyme, marjoram). 

Cut the tail through at the joints, roll each piece 
in flour. Peel and slice the onion and brown it in a 
frying pan in some beef fat. Then brown the 
pieces of tail in the same fat. Put meat, seasonings 
and cold water into a kettle, and cook slowly on the 
back of the stove for four or five hours. Skim 
off the fat and add more salt if needed. Serve 
with the pieces of tail in it. 

Dried Beef Creamed. 

Put one-half pound of thinly shaved dried beef 
into a frying pan, cover with cold water, set back 
on the stove and let stand for five or ten minutes, 
not allowing water to become more than lukewarm. 
Drain off every drop of water, add one and a half 
cups cold milk, and while milk is heating, gradually 



68 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

sprinkle in two and a half tablespoons flour, stirring 
most of the time, till perfectly smooth. Boil up 
once; add i tablespoon butter, season with pepper 
and a little salt, if salt is needed, and serve hot. If 
desired, an egg may be slightly beaten and added 
just before taking from the fire. The thickening 
may first be mixed with a little cold milk as in 
creamed codfish. 

Tripe. 

Wipe tripe, roll in flour, and cook in a hot frying 
pan in a little melted butter or salt pork fat, till 
tripe is browned delicately on each side. Place on a 
hot platter, spread with a very little butter and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

Corned Beef and Cabbage. 

Wash, and if very salt, soak in cold water for an 
hour, a piece of corned beef weighing five or six 
pounds. Put in a kettle with cold water to cover, 
place on the stove, heat slowly, skimming off scum 
as it rises to the top of the water. Cook meat slowly 
for three or four hours, or till very tender. Take 
out the meat, and in the liquor cook a cabbage which 
has been prepared according to directions given in 
chapter on vegetables ; also some potatoes that have 
been washed and pared. If beets are to be used, 
cook them in boiling water in a kettle by themselves. 
When cabbage and potatoes are tender take out 
with a skimmer and serve with the meat. Sate 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 69 

the liquor, cover, and use the fat that rises to the top 
in warming up hash. Any fat not used in cooking, 
should be saved for soap-making. 

Irish Stew. 

Take oflf all the skin and fat from three pounds 
neck of mutton, as they give a strong, disagreeable 
flavor to tlie stew if left on. Cut meat in small 
pieces, cover meat and bones with boiling water, and 
cook slowly for two or three hours, adding vege- 
tables, steaming dumplings, seasoning and thicken- 
ing the gravy, as for beef stew. 



^Boiled Mutton, 

Take off skin and fat from a neck of mutton, 
cover well with boiling water, let boil for five min- 
utes ; then cook slowly on the back of stove, till meat 
is tender, allowing about fifteen minutes to the 
pound. Take meat out on a hot dish and thicken one 
pint of the liquor in which meat was cooked for 
a sauce. Add j^ tsp. salt, ^ tsp. pepper, 2 tbsp. 
vinegar and i tbsp. finely chopped parsley or a few 
capers. Save the rest of the liquor for another 
meal, add the bones, and any left over scraps of 
meat, cook for another hour or two, strain, and, 
when cold, take off the fat. When ready to use, add 
some well washed barley, allowing ^ cup barley, 
for three pints mutton liquor. Cook till barley is 
tender, season with salt and pepper, and serve hot. 



70 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton. 

Have the butcher bone a four-pound shoulder of 
mutton, and take home the bones with the meat. 
Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, and make a 
stuffing with i^ c. stale bread crumbs, ^ tsp. salt, 
I tsp. ground sage or poultry seasoning, Ys tsp. pep- 
per, I tbsp. melted butter, and enough milk or water 
(about ^ c.) to moisten. Mix well, spread on the 
inside of the meat, roll up, tie or fasten with wooden 
skewers, sprinkle with salt and flour, place in a bak- 
ing pan, pour one c. hot water around the meat and 
cook in a moderate, not a hot oven about two hours, 
basting often with the water in the pan. As the 
water cooks away more may be added. Make a 
gravy as for roast beef. Use the bones for making 
broth. 

Roast Veal. 

A good piece of veal for roasting is the leg, which 
should be boned at market, the bones being taken 
home to be used in soups or broths. A stuffing 
may be made as for shoulder of mutton, and the 
meat sewed or tied into a round shape. Sprinkle 
meat with salt and flour, and place in a dripping pan 
with some small strips of fat salt pork, underneath 
and on top. Bake in a moderate oven, basting every 
fifteen minutes with some of the fat as it tries out. 
Veal should be thoroughly cooked. In roasting, 
allow nearly half an hour to the pound. After tak- 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 7I 

ing Up the meat add boiling water to the pan and 
make a thickened gravy as for other roasts. 

Veal Pot Pie or Veal Stew. 

2 lbs. neck or knuckle of veal, (lower part of leg). 
2 small onions. 

y2 tbsp. salt. 4 potatoes. 

J4 tsp. pepper. 3 pts. boiling water. 

Have meat cut in small pieces, and brown a part 
of it in a frying pan in a little pork fat or beef drip- 
ping. Put meat, bones and seasoning in a kettle or 
large stewpan with the boiling water and cook like 
beef stew. Prepare the vegetables and dumplings, 
and cook them as in other stews. Thicken the gravy 
after taking up the meat and vegetables. 

Bacon, 

Have bacon cut very thin, cut off the rind, and 
cook in a hot frying pan till dry and crisp. Serve 
alone or with liver, that has been cooked in some of 
the fat left in the pan after cooking the bacon. Pre- 
pare the liver by cutting it into one-fourth-inch 
slices, pouring boiling water over it, and letting it 
stand for four or five minutes. Then drain, season 
with salt and pepper, and cook in the hot bacon fat, 
turning often, till brown. The heat should not be 
as great as for cooking the bacon. Put the liver in 
the center of the platter and the bacon around the 
edge. All bacon fat should be saved to use in 
warming over dishes. 



"^2 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Roast Pork, 

The loin, sometimes called chine, and the ribs are 

the best pieces for roasting. Rub meat over with 
salt, sage and flour; place in a dripping pan and 
roast like other meats, basting often. The oven 
should not be as hot as for most other meats. Al- 
low about twenty-five minutes to the pound. Make 
a gravy as for other roasts. 

Pork Chops. 

Wipe the chops and cook them in a hot frying pan. 
Cook rather slowly after they commence to brown, 
being careful not to burn them. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and serve. 

Fried Salt Pork and Apple. 

Cut pork in thin slices, pour boiling water over it 
and scrape the rind thoroughly, to cleanse it. Drain 
and fry in a frying pan till crisp. After taking up 
pork, pour off most of the fat, and in the remaining 
fat cook some tart apples, that have been pared, 
cored and cut in slices, adding a very little hot water 
while cooking. Serve with the pork. 

^Broiled Ham. 

Have ham cut in thin slices, freshen by allowing it 
to stand in cold water for an hour or more. Drain 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 73 

dry, and broil in a broiler for four or five minutes. 
Serve with, or without poached eggs. 

Fried Ham. 

Freshen ham as for broiling, take off the rind, cut 
gashes through the fat and cook in a hot frying pan 
till fat is crisp. Too much cooking renders the ham 
tough and dry. 

Drippings. 

All pieces of fat from beef or pork should be 
saved to use in preparing drippings, which can be 
used many times in place of butter. Mutton fat 
should be saved for making soap. 

Cut into one-half inch pieces and put in a kettle or 
thick saucepan with cold water to cover. Cook 
slowly on the back of the stove for several hours. 
Stir from the bottom occasionally to keep fat from 
sticking. When the water has boiled away and the 
scraps are brown, let cool a few minutes, strain, and 
when quite cold cover the drippings closely, and they 
will keep for weeks. Use for shortening breakfast 
cakes, for warming over potatoes and meat, and for 
greasing pans. 

Ways of Warming Over Meat. 

Minced Meat on Toast. 

Remove skin and gristle, chop the meat and put 
in a frying pan with enough thickened gravy to 



74 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

moisten. Heat quickly, season to taste with salt and 
pepper, and pour it over slices of hot toast. 



Scalloped Meat. 

Cut remnants of cold cooked meat into small, thin 
slices, and place in layers in a greased pudding dish, 
sprinkling each layer with salt and pepper, and 
covering it well with gravy. Moisten stale bread 
crumbs with melted butter (allowing 2 tbsp. butter 
to a cup of crumbs), and spread lightly over the 
top. Bake in a hot oven till crumbs are brown. 
Strained tomato may be seasoned with salt and pep- 
per and used in place of gravy. 



Meat Balls. 

I c. chopped meat. Salt and pepper to taste. 
J4 c. bread crumbs. 2 tsp. butter or beef dripping. 
Gravy or beaten egg to moisten. 



Mix meat, bread crumbs, and gravy or beaten 
egg, add salt and pepper, and form the mixture into 
round balls. Place in a shallow baking pan, put a 
little of the butter or dripping on each meat ball, 
and bake on the top grate of the oven till nicely 
browned. Arrange on a hot platter, and pour 
around the balls a tomato sauce or warmed over 
gravy. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 75 



Hash. 

1 c. cooked chopped meat. 

2 c. cold mashed or chopped potato. 
I tsp. salt. ]4, tsp. pepper. 

34 c. hot water. 2 tbsp. butter or dripping. 

Mix potato, meat and seasoning; melt butter in 
a frying pan, put in the hash, add hot water and 
place the frying pan on the stove, where the hash 
will slowly brown underneath. Fold over, then 
turn out on a hot platter. 

Corned Beef Hash. 

Add ^4 as much chopped, cooked beets, as potato, 
to meat and use less salt than in the above recipe. 



Cottage Pie. 

1 c. chopped meat. ^ tsp. salt. 

f c. gravy or hot water. y% tsp. pepper. 
Salt and pepper to taste, i tbsp. butter. 

2 c. hot mashed potato. ^ c. hot milk. 

I beaten tgg. 

Mix meat with gravy, add salt and pepper to taste, 
and put in bottom of a greased pudding dish. Mix 



76 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

the mashed potato with the salt, pepper, butter, hot 
milk and beaten egg. Beat all well together and 
spread over the meat. Bake on top grate of the 
oven till potato is golden brown. The Qgg may be 
omitted. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. // 



CHAPTER VIL 



POULTRY. 

Poultry, that is, chicken, fowl, turkey, duck and 
goose, is a strength-giving, muscle-making food. It 
is less nutritious, and more expensive, than the 
cheaper cuts of beef and mutton. Chicken, particu- 
larly the white part, is more readily digested than 
other meat. Chicken and fowl are good throughout 
the year, and turkey during the winter months. In 
selecting poultry examine flesh, skin, feet and legs. 
A chicken has soft feet; smooth, moist skin, and 
plump breast ; the end of the breast bone being soft 
and pliable. Pin feathers indicate a young bird, and 
long hairs, an old one. In fowl, the feet are hard 
and dry,and havecoarse scales; the endofthe breast 
bone is also hard. A good turkey has smooth, dark 
legs, full, soft breast, and white, plump flesh. In 
buying poultry always have it drawn (that is, the 
intestines taken out, at the market), and have fowl, 
which is to be used for a stew or fricassee, cut up. 
When preparing poultry for cooking, be careful to 
clean most thoroughly. For a stew, remove all pin 
feathers and hairs, and wash each piece separately, 
getting rid of all the clotted blood around the heart, 
and cutting off any part of the liver which has a 
greenish color. In case the gizzard was not pre- 



78 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

pared at the market, cut off the fat around the out- 
side, and cut through the thick part, as far as the lin- 
ing, and take out this Hning whole, with its contents, 
and throw it away. Thoroughly wash the outside, 
to cook with the rest of the fowl. 

In preparing chicken, fowl, or turkey for roasting, 
pull out pin feathers, then singe, by holding the bird 
over a flame from burning paper, changing position 
till all parts have been reached. Insert the fingers 
at the opening made, when the intestines were taken 
out, and remove everything left inside. Put first 
two fingers under the skin close to the neck and take 
out wind pipe, also the crop, which will be found 
close to the breast. In case the crop cannot easily 
be reached in this way, cut a small opening above the 
breast, through which to take it out. Push back the 
skin from the neck and cut off neck close to the body, 
leaving skin to fold over on the back, saving neck to 
cook with the giblets. 

Cut out the oil bag in the tail. Cleanse the bird 
by holding it under the cold water faucet, and allow- 
ing the water to run through, till perfectly clean; 
then wipe out the inside with a clean cloth. Unless 
the inside is thoroughly cleansed, the stuffing, as 
well as the meat, will have a bitter, disagreeable 
taste. 

Roast Chicken. 

After preparing the chicken according to direc- 
tions, make a stuffing with i}^ cups bread crumbs 
mixed with 3 tbsp. butter melted, f cup milk, and 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 79 

salt, pepper and sage, or poultry seasoning, to taste. 
Fat salt pork may be finely chopped and used in 
place of butter. Put stuffing in by spoonfuls, both 
at the neck end and in the body, using enough to 
make the chicken plump. Sew up with fine twine, 
taking stitches deep enough to prevent the skin from 
bursting. Cross the legs over the tail, and tie firmly 
together. Fold neck skin over on the back. Draw 
the thighs close to the body, pass a twine tightly 
around body over thighs and wings, and tie. Rub 
over with salt, sprinkle well with flour and place the 
chicken on its side in a dripping pan, with a rack or 
some wooden skewers underneath. Put in a hot 
oven, and baste often with a little melted butter and 
hot water. When the flour has browned a little, the 
heat of the oven may be reduced. 

After the chicken has become nicely browned on 
one side, turn and brown the other side, basting as 
before. If the chicken browns too fast, lay a clean 
cloth that has been wrung out of salted water, or a 
piece of greased paper over it. A three pound 
chicken will cook in about an hour and a quarter. 
It should cook till the joints will separate easily. 
Wash neck and giblets (that is, gizzard, heart and 
liver), cover with cold water, cook till tender, dis- 
card neck, and chop and use giblets in the gravy. 
When the chicken is done, take out on a hot platter, 
and remove strings. If much fat is left in the pan, 
pour off a part, and to the remainder add the liquid 
in which giblets were cooked ; thicken with flour that 
has been smoothly mixed with cold water; cook 
thoroughly, stirring all the time; add chopped gib- 



80 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

lets, and season to taste with salt and pepper and 
serve for gravy. 

Roast Turkey, 

Prepare and roast like the chicken, using double 
or more the quantity of stuffing. Allow about three 
hours for a ten pound turkey. Use plenty of hot 
water and melted butter in basting, and keep the 
turkey covered over with the wet cloth or greased 
paper, after it has browned, so that it will not be too 
dry. 

Chicken or Turkey Soup. 

Put all the bones and scraps, let from roast 
chicken or turkey, into a kettle or stewpan, cover 
well with cold water, add a small onion, sliced, and 
cook slowly two or three hours. Strain, and when 
cold, take off the fat. When ready to use, put on to 
boil again, add some well washed rice, allowing one- 
half cup to two quarts of soup. Season to taste with 
salt and pepper, and cook till rice is tender. Serve 
hot. 

Fowl Stew or Fricassee. 

Have fowl cut up, clean thoroughly according to 
directions, previously given, put in a kettle, cover 
with boiling water and cook clowly for two or three 
hours, or till tender. Add salt to the water after 
the fowl is half done. Place on slices of toast on a 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 8l 

hot platter. Skim off fat from the liquor in the 
kettle and thicken with flour smoothly mixed with 
cold water, adding more salt, if needed, and a little 
pepper. Pour a part of the gravy over the pieces of 
fowl, and serve the rest from a gravy dish. A pint 
of hot milk may be added to gravy before thicken- 
ing, if liked. The flavor of the fricassee may be im- 
proved by sprinkling the pieces of cooked fowl with 
salt, rolling in flour and delicately browning in a 
little hot pork fat, before serving. 



82 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

CHAPTER VIII. 

FISH. 

Fish, being cheap and plentiful, forms a valuable 
substitute for meat, though it contains less nourish- 
ment. It is, as a rule, more easily digested than 
meat. 

Fish is either white, or oily and red blooded. 

The white fish has the oil confined to the liver. 
The oily fish has the oil distributed throughout the 
body, making the flesh dark colored. Familiar ex- 
amples are salmon, bluefish and mackerel. 

Fish should never be eaten except when per- 
fectly fresh, as otherwise it is harmful and some- 
times positively poisonous. 

On account of its strong odor it should never be 
put in the ice box with other food, unless closely 
covered. 

It should always be thoroughly cooked. The best 
methods of cooking are baking or broiling, though 
rich fish like salmon may be boiled. 

In selecting fish examine the flesh and see that it is 
firm, and that the eyes are bright and full, and the 
gills red. 

Broiled Fish. 

Clean and wipe the fish as dry as possible, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, place in a well greased broiler 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 83 

and broil for about 15 minutes. Slices of fish 
should be turned often, but whole fish should have 
the flesh side broiled first and then be turned for the 
skin side to broil just long enough to become brown 
and crisp. 

Baked Fish. 



Clean and wipe three pounds cod or haddock, cut 
four gashes on each side, stuff, sew, rub over with 
salt and flour, tie fish in shape, place upright on 
narrow strips of cloth in a dripping pan, put strips 
of fat salt pork in gashes, and bake in a hot oven 
from thirty-five to forty-five minutes, basting often 
with a little butter melted in hot water. In oily fish, 
like mackerel or blue fish, no pork will be needed. 
Serve fish with drawn butter or Hollandaise sauce. 
To remove the fish from the pan lift it by the strips 
of cloth and place on a hot platter. Take out strips 
of cloth, pork and strings. To carve the fish cut 
along the entire length of the backbone, then cut 
down at right angles with it, drawing the fish away 
from the bone. Raise bone to reach the stuffing. 
The skeleton should be left whole on the platter. 

StuMng for Fish, 

I c. bread crumbs. >4 tsp. salt. 

I tbsp. melted butter. ^ tsp. pepper. 
I tbsp. chopped parsley, i c. milk or water. 
Mix ingredients well together. 



84 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

The stuffing may be moistened with water in- 
stead of milk and two tsp. chopped pickles or capers 
be added if desired. 



Drawn Butter Sauce, 

2 tbsp. butter. % tsp. pepper. 

2j<2 tbsp. flour. 54 tsp. salt. 

I c. cold water. 

Melt butter, add flour, salt and pepper, stir till 
smooth, remove from fire ; when cool add cold water, 
mix well, put back over the fire and stir constantly 
till the sauce thickens and boils. A hard boiled 
egg may be chopped or cut in slices and added to 
the sauce before serving, or 2 tbsp. chopped parsley, 
or a few capers may be added, if liked. 

Hollandaise Sauce. 

3 tbsp. butter. J4 tsp. salt. 

Yolks 2 eggs. Few grains cayenne. 

Juice J^ lemon. J^ c. boiling water. 

Rub butter to a cream, add egg yolks, one at a 
time, and beat well, then add lemon juice, salt and 
cayenne. About five minutes before serving, add 
the boiling water and cook over hot water till the 
sauce thickens like boiled custard, stirring all the 
time. If cooked too much the mixture will curdle. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 85 



Baked Mackerel. 

Have the fish split and head and tail taken off. 
Clean and put fish in a greased baking pan, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and dot over with butter, using 
^ tbsp. for a medium-sized fish. Pour over one cup 
milk and bake in a hot oven from twenty-five to 
thirty-five minutes. Place on a hot platter and pour 
the milk from the pan around the fish for sauce. 

Fish Chowder. 

2 lbs. haddock or cod. 3 pts. cold water. 
Slice of pork. i pt. hot milk. 

y2 onion. 6 crackers. 

4 potatoes. i^ tsp. salt. 

Pepper to taste. 

Have head, skin and bones removed from fish at 
market, and take them home with the fish. Cut the 
fish in one-inch pieces. Put head, skin and bones 
in a kettle with the cold water, allow them to come 
slowly to the boiling point, and then simmer for ^ 
hour. Strain this water and return it to the kettle, 
throwing away head, bones and skin. Cut the pork 
in small pieces, put in a frying pan and fry till brown 
with the onion cut small. Strain the fat into the 
kettle, add potatoes which have been pared, washed 
and cut in one-fourth-inch slices, and the fish. Cook 
till potatoes are soft. Do not break the fish by stir- 
ring. Add hot milk, salt and pepper. Put the 



86 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

crackers in a soup dish and soften them with a little 
cold milk, before pouring on the hot chowder. 
Serve at once. 

Boiled Fish. 

Clean the fish, tie up in a piece of cloth, put in 
boiling salted water, to which has been added a little 
vinegar or lemon juice, and cook slowly till flesh 
leaves the bone, which will require from ten to 
fifteen minutes per pound, thick pieces requiring a 
longer time than thin ones. Drain, take off the 
skin, place fish on a hot platter and serve with 
drawn butter or Hollandaise sauce. 

Fried Fish. 

Oily fish like salmon, mackerel or bluefish should 
never be fried. Cod should be cleaned, skinned, 
boned and cut in small slices one inch in thickness. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in cornmeal and 
fry in a frying pan in hot salt pork fat till fish is 
nicely browned on each side. In turning the fish 
be careful not to break it. 

Salt Fish. 

During the process of drying and salting fish, its 
weight is reduced more than one-half. For this 
reason salt fish is cheaper and more nutritious, 
pound for pound, than fresh. As it may be made 
into a variety of palatable and attractive dishes, it 
should be more largely used than it is. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 87 

Ways of Cooking. 
Creamed Codfish. 

Wash and shred the fish in small pieces, being 
careful to throw away all bones. Put the fish in a 
frying pan, cover with cold water and let stand on 
the back of the stove till fish is softened, not allow- 
ing water to boil. Drain off the water, put back on 
the stove, and when fish is dry cover with cold milk, 
allowing two cups of milk to one cup of fish. Heat 
slowly to the boiling point and thicken with flour 
that has been mixed with a little cold milk. Cook 
for five minutes, stirring all the time. Add i tbsp. 
butter, and salt and pepper to taste. The butter 
may be omitted. 

Broiled Codfish. 

Cut the fish in long strips, soak in cold water a few 
minutes, drain, place in a greased broiler and broil 
till brown on one side, then turn and brown the 
other side. 

Codfish Balls. 

1 c. codfish. I tsp. butter. 

2 c. potato. }i tsp. pepper. 
I egg. Salt if needed. 

Wash the fish in cold water and pick, or cut it in 
very small pieces. Wash, pare and cut potatoes in 



88 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

small pieces and cook them in boiling water with 
the fish. When potatoes are soft, drain off every 
drop of water, mash thoroughly in kettle or sauce- 
pan in which they were cooked, add butter, beaten 
egg and pepper. Beat with a fork till very light. 
Shape into balls, sprinkle with flour and fry in a 
frying pan in a little, very hot fat till cakes are 
brown on both sides. Drain on brown paper. 

Fish Hash. 

Prepare as for fish balls, omitting egg, put in a 
frying pan with a little hot pork fat, stir till heated, 
and then cook slowly till brown underneath. Turn 
out on a hot platter and serve. 

Baked CodUsh Hash, 

I c. salt codfish. 2 eggs. 

2 heaping c. raw potatoes that have been pared and 
cut in inch blocks. 2 tbsp. melted butter. 
Milk to make very moist (about ^ c.) 
Salt and pepper to taste. 

Wash fish, cut in small pieces and put in a kettle 
with the cut up potato, add boiling water to cover, 
and cook till potato is soft. Drain, mash, add but- 
ter, egg, well beaten, milk and seasoning. Beat till 
very light and then bake in a greased pudding dish 
for twenty or twenty-five minutes till browned deli- 
cately. Any left over fish may be mixed with 
mashed potato and used in the same way. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 89 



Salt Codfish Chowder, 

y2 lb. salt codfish. 5 small potatoes. 

3 pts. water. 3 c. hot milk. 

I small onion sliced. 6 Uneeda biscuit. 

y^ lb. fat salt pork. i tbsp. butter. 

Salt if needed. ^4 tsp. pepper. 

Wash fish and soak in cold water for one or two 
hours. Pour off water, shred fish in long strips and 
cut strips in one-inch pieces, throwing away all 
bones. Put fish in a kettle with the water. Cut 
pork in small slices and fry in a frying pan with the 
sliced onion. When the pork is crisp and dry, strain 
the fat into the fish kettle. Cook fish slowly for 
half an hour or till it is somewhat softened, then 
add the potatoes which have been washed, pared 
and cut in thick slices. When potatoes are tender, 
add hot milk, butter and pepper. A few minutes be- 
fore serving, put crackers in the soup dish and pour 
a little cold milk over them that they may become 
softened. Then add the hot chowder, and serve 
at once. 

Finnan Haddie, 

Wash and skin the fish, put in a large frying or 
dripping pan, cover with cold water and place on the 
stove. Cook gently for nearly half an hour, or till 
flesh will separate from the bones. Take out on a 



90 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

hot platter, spread thinly with butter, sprinkle with 
a very little pepper and serve hot. 



'Baked Finnan Haddie. 

Place fish in a baking pan, surround with cold 
water and cook slowly for twenty-five minutes on 
the top of the stove. Pour off water, spread fish 
with butter and bake in the oven for twenty-five 
minutes more. 

Smoked Herring. 

Put herring in a large bowl and cover with boil- 
ing water for ten minutes. Drain, skin and broil 
for about eight minutes, or place in a baking pan 
and cook in the oven for ten or twelve minutes. 
Spread with a very little butter and serve hot. 

Baked Salt Mackerel. 

^Wash mackerel and soak in cold water over night. 
In the morning drain, place, skin downwards, in a 
baking pan and pour over it a pint of milk. Bake in 
a moderate oven for twenty-five or thirty minutes. 
At the end of fifteen or twenty minutes thicken the 
milk with 1^/2 tbsp. flour that has been rubbed till 
smooth with Ij4 tbsp. butter and ys. tsp. pepper. 
Serve on a hot platter with the thickened milk 
poured around the fish for a sauce. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 9I 

Ways of Using Left Over Cooked Fish. 
Fish Hash, 

Mix equal parts of flaked fish and cold chopped 
or mashed potato, season to taste with salt and 
pepper; cook in a frying pan containing enough 
hot salt pork fat to moisten hash. Stir occasionally 
till heated through and then let the hash brown un- 
derneath. Turn into a hot dish and serve. 

Fish Cakes. 

Use same mixture as for the hash, form into 
small, round, flat cakes and fry in a frying pan in a 
small quantity of bubbling hot fat till cakes are 
golden brown underneath, then turn and brown the 
other side. 

Creamed Fish. 

Flake fish, season with salt and pepper, put in a 
frying pan, cover with milk and when milk reaches 
boiling point, thicken as in creamed salt fish, using 
3^ tbsp. flour to a pint of milk. Add a small piece 
of butter, with salt and pepper to taste. 

Scalloped Fish. 

After carefully freeing fish from skin and bones, 
flake into small pieces and place in layers in a 
greased pudding dish, sprinkling each layer with salt 



92 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

and pepper, and covering with a white sauce, made 
in either of the three ways given in making milk 
toast, using a cup of sauce for one and a half cups 
fish. Cover the top with bread crumbs that have 
been moistened with a little melted butter (2 tbsp. 
butter to one cup crumbs). Bake on the top shelf 
of the oven till crumbs are brown. 

Fish Salad. 

Remove skin and bones from any cold cooked 
fish, cut in small pieces and mix with salad dress- 
ing, (see potato salad) and serve on lettuce leaves. 
Or free canned salmon from skin, bones and oil, 
mix with salad dressing and serve in the same way. 
The poorer leaves may be chopped and mixed with 
the fish. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 93 

CHAPTER IX. 

SHELLFISH. 

Oysters, 

Oysters are more largely used than any of the 
shellfish; and though they give a pleasing variety, 
they are an expensive food. One quart of oysters' 
has about the same nutritive value as a quart of 
milk, or three-fourths of a pound of round of beef. 

Oysters are in season from September to May. 
In buying, select those that are plump and free from 
green spots. If possible, remain at the market and 
see them taken from the shells. To clean oysters 
pour cold water over them, allowing ^ cup water 
to a quart of oysters, lifting each oyster separately 
by its round, tough muscle, and rinsing it in the 
liquor. Strain the liquor through a fine strainer 
and save to use in cooking oysters. 

Oyster Stew, 

I qt. oysters. 3 tbsp. butter. 

I qt. hot scalded milk. % tsp. pepper. 

y2 tbsp. salt. 

Clean oysters according to directions. Put 
strained oyster liquor into a stewpan or kettle, heat 
to the boiling point, and if scum rises skim it off; 



94 Hartley house cook book 

add oysters and cook till they are plump and the 
edges curl. Add hot milk, butter, salt and pepper. 
Serve at once with small crackers. If oysters are 
cooked too much they will be tough. 



Fancy Roast, 

Clean and drain oysters, put them in a saucepan 
without water, and cook till they are plump and 
edges curl, stirring or shaking the pan slightly while 
cooking. Season with salt and pepper and serve on 
slices of toast. 



Scalloped Oysters, 

I pt. oysters. Salt and pepper. 

J4 c. oyster liquor. i>4 c. bread crumbs. 

•^2 c. milk. 2 tbsp. butter, melted. 



Clean and drain oysters, strain the liquor needed, 
mix crumbs with melted butter and put a thin lay- 
er in bottom of a greased baking dish; cover with 
oysters, sprinkle well with salt and pepper and pour 
over one-half of the strained oyster liquor and milk. 
Then sprinkle with another thin layer of crumbs, 
add another layer of oysters, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, cover with remaining oyster liquor and 
milk. Lastly cover the top with remaining crumbs. 
Bake in rather a hot oven, from twenty-five to thirty 
minutes, till crumbs are browned delicately. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 95 



Clmn Chowder. 

I qt. clams. 3 c. boiling water. 

5 potatoes, pared and sliced. ^ tbsp. salt. 

% lb. salt pork. ys tsp. pepper. 

I onion. i qt. hot milk. 
8 crackers. 

Clean the clams as you do oysters, straining and 
saving the liquor. Cut pork in small pieces and try 
out in a frying pan ; peel, slice and cook the onion 
in the hot pork fat till nicely browned, and strain fat 
into the kettle in which the chowder is to be made. 
Add clam liquor, hot water, sliced potato and hard 
part of clams, first chopping the latter. When 
cooked till potatoes are nearly soft, add soft part of 
clams, the salt, pepper and butter. Cook five min- 
utes more, add hot milk, and pour chowder into a 
soup dish over the crackers that have been softened 
in a little cold milk. Too much cooking hardens 
clams. If liked the chowder may be poured over i 
cup hot strained tomato and mixed with it before 
serving. Bacon fat may be used for browning the 
onion instead of using the salt pork. 



Steamed Clams. 

Buy clams in the shell, scrub thoroughly with a 
brush, changing the water several times. Put clams 
into a large kettle, add one-half cup hot water for 



96 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

four quarts clams and cook till shells open. Take 
up with a skimmer and serve while hot with some 
of the liquor and a little melted butter, first strain- 
ing liquor through cheese cloth. Strain and save 
the rest of the liquor, to reheat for broth, throwing 
away the settlings that will be found in the bottom 
of the dish. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 97 



CHAPTER X. 

EGGS. 

Eggs are largely used in preparing desserts, and 
as they are rich in muscle-making material, they are 
sometimes a useful substitute for meat, in the sea- 
son when they are cheapest. They should be com- 
bined with some starchy food, such as potatoes, rice 
or bread. 

Cooking eggs in boiling water renders them 
tough, and indigestible ; for this reason the water in 
which they are cooked should be kept below the 
boiling point. 

It is desirable always to use fresh eggs. To test 
the freshness of eggs place in a basin of cold water. 
If fresh they will sink to the bottom. When held to 
the light the center should be clear. When held to 
the ear and shaken no sound should be heard. 

When eggs are brought from the market they 
should be washed and put in a cold place. The 
shells can be used for settling coffee. 

Soft Boiled Eggs, 

Carefully put the eggs, one at a time, into a 
saucepan of boiling water. Cover closely, and set 
back on the stove shelf for five or six minutes. 



98 ^HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Hard Boiled Eggs. 

Put eggs in saucepan of boiling water, cover, set 
back on the stove shelf and allow them to cook from 
20 to 35 minutes. 

Scrambled Eggs. 

2 eggs. spk. pepper. 

% tsp. salt. J4 c. milk. 

Beat eggs slightly, add salt, pepper and milk. 
Pour into a hot, buttered frying pan and cook quick- 
ly, stirring all the time till egg is firm but soft. 
Serve hot on slices of bread. 

Omelet. 

3 eggs. iV tsp. pepper. 

% tsp. salt. 3 tbsp. milk or water. 

^2 tbsp. butter. 

Separate yolks of eggs from whites, beat yolks 
till light colored and thick; add salt, pepper and 
milk or water. Beat the whites very stiff, and cut 
and fold them into the yolks. Butter the sides of a 
hot frying pan with the butter, and let it run down 
into the bottom of pan. Pour in the omelet mix- 
ture and cook slowly till the bottom is light brown. 
Put on the top grate of the oven to dry, but not 
brown the top. Fold over like a turnover and slip 
on to a hot platter. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 99 

Baked Omelet 

4 eggs. J4 tsp. salt. 

I c. milk. y^ tsp. pepper. 

I tbsp. flour. 

Mix flour, salt and pepper and cook with the 
milk till it thickens, stirring all the time, and add 
to the yolks of the eggs well beaten. Lastly cut and 
fold in the stiffly beaten whites. Bake in a shallow 
greased pudding dish on top grate in a moderate 
oven for twenty or twenty-five minutes. 

Fried Eggs. 

Heat a frying pan and put in three or four 
tablespoons ham, bacon or pork fat. Break eggs 
one at a time into a saucer and slip carefully into 
the hot fat. Cook till whites are firm. While the 
eggs are cooking dip some of the hot fat over them 
with a spoon, 

Griddled Eggs. 

Heat a griddle nearly as hot as for frying griddle 
cakes. Grease it slightly and carefully slip the 
eggs upon it. When they are slightly browned un- 
derneath, turn them over and brown them on the 
other side. Eggs will cook in this way in a min- 
ute and a half and are much more digestible than 
when fried. 



100 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Dropped or Poached Eggs. 

Break the eggs carefully, one at a time, into a 
saucer and slip them into a frying pan of hot, salted 
water. Dip the hot water over the yolks with a 
spoon while cooking. When the whites are firm, 
and a film has formed over the yolks, take up the 
eggs with a skimmer, drain, trim off rough edges 
and serve on slices of toast. Season with salt. 

Egg Salad. 

Cut six hard boiled eggs in slices, arrange on let- 
tuce leaves, and pour over them some salad dress- 
ing. See Potato Salad. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. lOI 

CHAPTER XL 

CHEESE. 

Cheese is made from milk which has been changed 
to curds and whey by the action of rennet. The 
whey is drawn off, the curd salted and pressed into 
moulds and kept there till the curd hardens. Cheese 
is one of the most nutritious foods, and may be used 
as a substitute for meat. A pound of cheese con- 
tains as much muscle-making material as two 
pounds of meat. It is more easily digested when 
cooked than when raw. Cheese should always be 
eaten in combination with some starchy food. 

Welsh Rarebit. 

I tsp. butter. Few grains cayenne. 

1^2 tsp. flour. j4 c. milk. 

j4 tsp salt. J4 c. grated cheese. 

J4 tsp. mustard. i beaten egg. 

4 slices toast or 6 Uneeda biscuit. 

Melt butter in a saucepan, stir in flour mixed 
with the seasonings; when smooth remove from 
fire and when mixture has cooled slowly stir in the 
cold milk. Place back on the stove and stir con- 
stantly till mixture boils. Then place over hot water, 
add the cheese and cook till it melts, stirring all 



102 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

the time. Add beaten egg and cook two or three 
minutes more, or till the mixture thickens. Spread 
over the toasted bread or biscuit and serve while 
hot. By using great care the rarebit may all be 
cooked on the stove without being placed over hot 
water. The mixture must not boil after the egg 
is added, but must cook slowly on back of the stove. 

Cheesed Crackers, 

Slightly butter Uneeda biscuit and spread thickly 
with grated cheese that has been mixed with a few 
grains of cayenne. Place, cheese side up, in a bak- 
ing pan, and bake on the top grate of the oven till 
the cheese melts. 

Cheese Fondue, 

I tbsp. butter. j4 tsp. salt. 

1 c. milk. ji tsp. mustard. 

I c. bread crumbs. Few grains cayenne. 

I c. grated cheese. 2 well beaten eggs. 

Melt butter, add remaining ingredients, except the 
eggs, cook over hot water till cheese melts, then 
add beaten eggs and cook two or three minutes 
longer. Serve hot; or mix the ingredients, pour 
into a greased pudding dish and bake for about 
twenty minutes, in a moderate oven, or until the 
fondue is puffed up and delicately browned. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. I03 



Sour Milk or Cottage Cheese. 

Put thick sour milk in a pan on the stove shelf 
and let it stand till the curd has separated from 
the whey. Then pour into a large piece of clean 
cheese cloth, tie up, drain, season to taste with salt 
and a little powdered sage, if desired, mix well and 
while quite moist form into balls. If the milk be- 
comes too hot the curd is made hard and tough. 
In sultry weather and during a thunder shower 
milk often thickens and sours. At such times, this 
palatable and nutritious dish can be prepared from 
milk that might otherwise be thrown away. 



T04 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

CHAPTER XII. 

BREAKFAST CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 

General Rules for Making Breakfast Cakes and 
Other Quick Batters. 

The oven should be heated before the cakes are 
ready to be baked, and the pans greased before the 
mixture is prepared. Flour must always be sifted 
before it is measured, then sifted again, together 
with the other dry ingredients. The eggs are next 
well beaten and added with the milk to the dry 
mixture. The shortening, which may be either but- 
ter, beef dripping or cottolene, is usually melted 
and added last. After ingredients are thoroughly 
mixed all should be well beaten, put into greased 
pans and baked at once. Iron pans must be heated 
as well as greased. These mixtures require a hot 
oven and should bake in twenty or twenty-five min- 
utes. When cakes are brown and leave no trace 
on a straw when pierced by it, they are done. 

Entire Wheat or Graham Muffins. 

I c. entire wheat or Graham flour. 
I c. white flour. i tsp. salt. 

34 c. sugar. I Qgg- 

^y2 tsp. baking powder. i c. milk. 

I tbsp. melted shortening. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. IO5 

Sift flour, sugar, baking powder and salt together. 
Beat egg till very light, add it with the milk to the 
dry mixture. Add melted shortening, mix and 
beat well ; bake in well greased muffin or gem pans 
about 25 minutes. 

Com MuMns. 

I c. white flour. >4 c. sugar. 

y2 c. yellow cornmeal. i tgg. 
ji tsp. baking powder. i c. milk. 
I tsp. salt. I tbsp. melted shortening. 

Mix and bake like Graham muffins. 

White Flour MuMns. 

2% c. flour. 3 tbsp. sugar. 

3>4 tsp. baking powder. i egg. 
I tsp. salt. I c. milk. 

2 tbsp. melted shortening. 

Mix and bake like other muffins. 

Cereal MuMns. 

iy2 c. flour. I c. cold, cooked cereal. 

3 tsp. baking powder. i egg. 

I tsp. salt. I c. milk. 

3 tbsp. sugar. 2 tbsp. melted shortening. 

Sift dry ingredients together, work in cereal with 
a knife, add egg, well beaten, with the milk, then 



I06 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Stir in melted shortening. Beat well and bake in 
greased muffin or gem pans. 

Corn Cake with Sour Milk or Buttermilk. 

I c. cornmeal. J^ tsp. soda. 

J^ c. flour. I tsp. salt. 

i c. sugar. I tgg. 

I c. thick sour milk or buttermilk. 

Mix dry ingredients, rubbing soda through a fine 
sifter. Add well beaten egg with the milk. Mix 
and beat well. Bake in a shallow greased pan. 

Molasses Corn Cake, 

I c. yellow cornmeal. i tsp. salt. 

}i c. white flour. i c. molasses. 

3 tsp. baking powder. J4 c. sweet milk. 

% tsp. soda. I tgg, 

I tbsp. melted shortening. 

Sift dry ingredients together, add well beaten 
tgg with molasses and milk, mix and beat well ; add 
melted shortening and bake like other corn cake. 

Blueberry Cake or Muffins, 

3 tbsp. butter. 4 tsp. baking powder. 

^ c. sugar. J4 tsp. salt. 

I tgg. I c. milk. 

254 c. flour. I c. berries. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. I07 

Mix like children's cake, reserving %. c. of the 
flour with which to roll the berries. Add floured 
berries last. Bake in a shallow pan or in muffin 
tins. 

Griddle Cakes. 



2 c. flour. I tbsp. sugar. 

I tsp salt. If c. sweet milk. 

3 tsp. baking powder. i ^gg, 

I tbsp. melted shortening. 

Sift dry ingredients together, beat the tgg^ mix 
it with the milk and add it gradually to the dry 
mixture, keeping the batter free from lumps. Mix 
and beat well. Add melted shortening and drop 
by spoonfuls on a hot, greased griddle. When 
puffed up and full of bubbles on top, and brown 
underneath, turn and brown on the other side. Serve 
hot with butter and sugar or syrup. The griddle 
may be rubbed over with a slice of turnip instead 
of being greased. 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes, 

2 c. flour. I ^gg. 

1 tsp. soda. I tsp. salt. 

2 c. thick sour milk or buttermilk. 

Mix and fry like sweet milk griddle cakes. The 
tgg may be omitted. 



I08 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Cornmeal Griddle Cakes, 

Yz c. yellow cornmeal. 3^ tsp. baking powder, 
ij^ c. boiling water. lYz tsp. salt. 

i>i c. milk. 3 tbsp. sugar. 

Ij4 c. flour. I ^^%. 

I tbsp. melted shortening. 

Add meal slowly to the boiling water and cook 
for three or four minutes, stirring all the time. Turn 
into a mixing bowl and when slightly cool add milk, 
then flour which has been sifted with the baking 
powder, salt and sugar; add t%^ well beaten and 
melted shortening. Mix, beat well and fry on a hot 
griddle. 

Doughs. 

In making doughs, that is, mixtures stiff enough 
to be handled, the dry ingredients should be sifted 
and mixed together, and the shortening, which must 
always be cold, should be cut in with a knife, or 
rubbed in lightly with the tips of the fingers. The 
milk is then added gradually and the mixing done 
with a knife rather than with a spoon, as cutting the 
dough renders it less tough than stirring. These 
mixtures must be made as soft as they can be 
shaped, and must be handled as lightly and quickly 
as possible. They require a quick oven for baking. 
(See tests for the oven. Chapter I.) Tins need no 
greasing for these doughs, but should be floured 
slightly. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 1 09 



Baking Powder Biscuit. 

2 c. flour. 3J4 tsp. baking powder. 

1 tsp. salt. 

2 tbsp butter, dripping, lard or cottolene. 
Enough milk, about ^ c, to make a soft dough. 

Sift dry ingredients together, cut in the short- 
ening with a knife, add milk gradually, mixing with 
a knife. Put on a floured board, pat out lightly with 
a rolling pin till about three-fourths of an inch 
thick put in a floured baking pan, brush over with 
milk and bake in a hot oven from 12 to 15 minutes. 

Short Cake. 

Mix like the biscuit, using 3 tbsp. shortening in- 
stead of 2. Toss on a floured board, pat out three- 
fourths of an inch thick, put in a floured tin plate or 
shallow pan, and bake in a quick oven. When done, 
split, spread with butter and cover with strawber- 
ries or other fruit which has been slightly crushed 
and sweetened to taste. Put two halves together and 
spread more of the sweetened fruit on top. Serve 
hot. 

Dutch Apple Cake. 

j2 c. flour. 3 tbsp. shortening. 

3 tsp. baking powder. i tgg. 

I tsp. salt. about | c. miik. 

4 sour apples. 



no HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Mix like biscuit, adding the egg well beaten with 
the milk. Put on a floured board, roll out as thick 
as biscuit, and put in a floured shallow pan. Pare, 
quarter and core the apples, cut quarters into three 
or four slices, lengthwise, and press the sharp edges 
of apples into the dough, arranging them in parallel 
rows. Sprinkle the apple with sugar and bake till 
the cake is done and apples are soft. Serve hot, 
with lemon sauce. (See pudding sauces, Chapter 
XV.) 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. Ill 



CHAPTER XIII. 

BREAD AND ROLLS. 

Home-made bread, owing to the cheapness and 
plentifulness of bakers' food, has become a luxury, 
or altogether missing in many homes. This should 
not be the case, as good home-made bread is 
more nutritious, wholesome and digestible than 
much of that bought at the shops, and besides, ac- 
tually costs but little, if any more, than bakers' 
bread. It can be readily seen that there is so much 
more substance to a home-made loaf that it must 
go farther than a bakers' loaf. With care and per- 
severance anyone can become a good bread-maker, 
as the process is not a difficult one. 

General Rules for Bread Making. 

For white bread, use the best new process flour, 
either Pillsbury's or Washburn & Crosby's. Good 
flour is never dead white in color, but has a yellow- 
ish or creamy tint. 

If any milk is used for mixing it should first be 
scalded and cooled, as that renders the dough less 
liable to sour. 

Be sure that the yeast is fresh. Fleischman's 
yeast cakes are considered the best by most people. 
A yeast cake is fresh when it has an even yellow 



112 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

color throughout. Dark streaks indicate mould. 
Yeast must never be put in hot water or hot milk, 
or be allowed to freeze, as freezing or subjecting it 
to great heat kills the little yeast plants of which it 
is composed. Keep yeast wrapped in the tinfoil in 
a cold place till ready to use. In mixing bread the 
liquid should be first put into the pan or mixing 
bowl, the salt and sugar added and the yeast thor- 
oughly dissolved and added next. Enough flour is 
then stirred in to make a dough just stiff enough to 
be easily kneaded. Too much flour makes the bread 
hard. In kneading the second time, merely flour the 
hands to prevent dough from sticking to them, and 
knead till holes and bubbles have disappeared. In 
winter the milk or liquid used in mixing should be 
lukewarm when yeast is added, and the dough 
raised in a warm part of the room. In very hot 
weather the liquid need not be lukewarm, though it 
should not be ice cold. Dough should always be 
kneaded or stirred down as soon as it has doubled 
in size, as too much rising causes dough to sour. 
It does not harm the dough to stir it down two or 
three times. After being shaped in loaves the 
bread should be allowed to double its bulk and then 
be baked in a moderately hot oven till the inside is 
thoroughly cooked and a rich brown crust formed 
outside. If the dough rises too much before it is 
baked the bread will be full of holes. 

Bread should not, as a rule, be eaten for twenty- 
four hours or more after it is baked, as fresh bread 
is difficult to digest. Good bread is light, though 
fine-grained throughout, is not sticky and has no 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. II3 

yeasty or sour smell. When pressed between thumb 
and fingers the crumbs do not stick together. The 
crust is thin, crisp and brown. Bread should be 
kept covered in a clean tin box or earthen jar. Bread 
made occasionally of entire wheat or Graham flour 
gives a pleasing variety, and agrees with some peo- 
ple better than white bread. It is not usually made 
stiff enough to knead, as when kneaded the bread is 
apt to be hard and dry. The mixture should be of 
the consistency of a very thick batter and should be 
well stirred, beaten and raised, like white bread. 
Loaves should be put in the oven to bake before 
they have quite doubled in size. 

White Bread, 
(Three Medium Sized, or Four Small Loaves.) 

I pt. milk. 2 tbsp. sugar. 

I pt. water. J^ yeast cake. 

I tbsp. salt. About 2J/2 qts. flour. 

Scald the milk and put it in a large mixing bowl 
or pan, add water, salt and sugar. When cooled till 
lukewarm, take out a little in a cup to dissolve 
yeast. When yeast is dissolved add it. Then stir 
in flour with a strong spoon, using enough to make 
dough stiff enough to knead. Take out on a floured 
board, and knead till smooth. Put back in bowl, cover 
and let rise over night or for six or seven hours in 
a warm room, till dough has doubled its size. When 
well risen, knead lightly for about 15 minutes, shape 



114 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

in loaves, or biscuit, put in greased pans, and let 
rise till dough has doubled in size. Bake loaves 
an hour, biscuit 15 or 20 minutes. When bread 
is done remove from tins, wrap in a clean towel, 
and when cold put away in a clean tin box, 
or jar, and cover closely. If not ready to knead the 
dough when it has risen, stir or cut it down, as other- 
wise the dough will sour. By using twice the quan- 
tity of yeast the bread may be raised and baked in 
four or five hours. 



Water Bread. 

1 qt. boiling water. i tbsp. salt. 

2 tbsp. dripping or lard. J/2 yeast cake. 

2 tbsp. sugar. About 3 qts. sifted flour. 

Pour hot water into the mixing pan, add short- 
ening, sugar and salt. When liquid has cooled, take 
out a little in a cup for dissolving the yeast. When 
yeast is thoroughly dissolved add it to the water in 
the pan. Stir in flour, mixing and kneading like the 
milk and water bread. Cover and let rise over night 
or till light. Knead well, shape in loaves and when 
raised bake. 



'Parker House Rolls. 

I pt. milk. ij^ tsp. salt. 

I tbsp. butter. y^ yeast cake. 

3 tbsp. sugar. Nearly 5 c. flour. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. II5 

Scald milk, add butter, sugar and salt. When 
cooled till lukewarm, add the yeast dissolved in a 
little of the milk. Stir in the flour, take out on a 
board, knead till smooth, put back in mixing bowl, 
cover, and when well risen, knead, roll out till -J 
inch in thickness, cut out with biscuit cutter, brush 
over with melted butter, fold over and place one inch 
apart in a greased baking pan. Cover and let rise 
till rolls double their size. Bake in a hot oven 
about fifteen or twenty minutes. A sponge may be 
made with the milk, butter, sugar, salt, yeast and 
three cups of the flour and allowed to rise till full of 
bubbles. Then add rest of the flour, knead, put 
back in bowl, and let rise again before shaping. The 
rolls will be lighter if made in this way. 



Entire Wheat Bread No, r. 
(Three Small Loaves.) 

I pt. milk. I tbsp. salt. 

I pt. water. J^ yeast cake. 

y2 c. sugar. 5 c. entire wheat flour. 

Enough white flour, about 2j^ c, to make a thick 
batter. 

If the mixture is too thin the bread will fall in 
the center and be full of large holes; if too 
thick the bread will be hard and dry. Mix like 
white bread, beating well with a spoon instead 
of kneading. When risen beat out all the bubbles. 



Il6 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

pour into greased bread pans and when loaves have 
nearly doubled in size bake for at least one hour 
in rather a hot oven. 

Entire Wheat Bread No. 2. 

I pt. milk. j^2 yeast cake. 

I pt. water. 4 c. white flour. 

I tbsp. salt. Yz c. sugar. 

J4 tsp. baking soda. 
Enough entire wheat flour (about 53^^ c.) to make 
the mixture as stiff as it can be stirred with a spoon. 

Scald milk, pour into a mixing bowl or pan, add 
water, salt and sugar; when cooled till lukewarm 
add dissolved yeast cake and white flour. Beat well, 
cover and let rise over night or for six or seven 
hours in a warm room. Then add soda after thor- 
oughly dissolving it in one tbsp. cold water, the 
sugar and the entire wheat flour, mixing thoroughly, 
and beating well. Put into greased bread pans, 
cover and let rise till loaves have nearly doubled in 
size and bake from an hour to an hour and a quar- 
ter. 

Graham Bread No. i. 

Mix, let rise and bake like the entire wheat bread 
No. 2, substituting sifted Graham flour for entire 
wheat. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. II7 

Graham Bread No. 2, 

I pt. milk. I tbsp. salt. 

I pt. water. J^ yeast cake. 

Yz c. molasses. 3 pts. Graham flour. 

I qt. white flour. 

Scald milk, add water, molasses and salt. When 
mixture has cooled, add dissolved yeast cake, Gra- 
ham flour and white flour, mixing very thoroughly. 
Let rise, beat well, put into greased pans and when 
risen bake. Loaves of entire wheat or Graham 
flour should not quite double in size before being 
baked, as they rise more in the oven than those 
made wholly of white flour. 

Boston Brown Bread. 

I c. yellow cornmeal. i^ tsp. soda. 
I c. rye meal. i>4 tsp. salt. 

I c. Graham flour. ^ c. molasses. 

2 c. thick sour milk or buttermilk, or 

Ij4 c. sweet milk or water. 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add molasses and 
milk, mix and beat well, pour into a well greased 
lard pail or baking powder tins, not filling them more 
than two-thirds full. Put on the covers, the inside 
of which should be greased, place pail or tins on a 
piece of iron or tin in a kettle, containing enough 
boiling water to come half way to the top of pail or 



Il8 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

cans. Cover closely and steam three hours, adding 
more boiling water as it boils away. The water 
must not stop boiling. When doiie, remove cover, 
and set the pail on the top grate of the oven for fif- 
teen or twenty minutes to dry off the top of loaf. 

Steamed Brown Bread No. 2. 

2 c. yellow cornmeal. 2 tsp. soda. 

2 c. rye meal. ij^ tsp. salt. 

J4 c. molasses. 
2 c. thick sour milk or buttermilk. 

Mix and steam like Boston brown bread. Graham 
flour may be used in place of rye meal, and sweet 
milk or water in place of sour milk, by using a little 
less soda and less milk or water. 

Uses for Stale Bread, 

All pieces of bread, however small, should be 
saved, slices to be used for toast, and pieces not 
suitable for toast to be made into bread puddings; 
grated, or rolled for crumbs to be used in scalloped 
dishes, or cut in small cubes and delicately browned 
in the oven, to serve with soups. 

Dry Toast 

Bread for toast should be at least two days' old. 
When there are clear red coals in the stove, put 
slices of bread inside a wire broiler, take off covers 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. II9 

and at first hold the broiler some distance from the 
coals, turning occasionally, then hold nearer to the 
coals till both sides have become a rich, golden 
brown. If held too near the coals at first the out- 
side will become burned before the heat can reach 
the inside. When there are not bright red coals 
suitable for toasting, the broiler may be closed, the 
bread put on the outside, the broiler placed on top 
of the stove, and slices turned as they become brown ; 
or the slices of bread may be placed in a shallow 
baking pan and browned in the oven. Toast should 
be served as soon as it is made. If the crust is very 
dry it may be dipped in hot water before serving. 

Milk Toast. 

Toast the slices of bread carefully, as for dry 
toast, dip each slice in a white sauce, put in a hot 
dish and pour the sauce between the slices and over 
the whole. Serve while hot. For six large slices of 
bread a pint of sauce will be needed. 

White Sauce No. i. 

2j^ tbsp. butter. j/2 tsp. salt. 

3 tbsp. flour. I pt. milk. 

Melt butter in a saucepan, add the flour mixed 
with the salt, stir till smooth, being careful that 
flour does not scorch. Remove from fire, and when 
cool, stir in the milk, cold. Put back over the fire 
and stir constantly till the mixture boils and thick- 
ens. 



120 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

White Sauce No. 2. 

Use the same ingredients as for white sauce No. i. 
Scald most of the milk over hot water, smoothly 
mixing the remainder with the flour and salt. When 
milk is scalded a thin skin will be seen on top and 
small bubbles around the edge. Then pour in the 
thickening which has been mixed with the salt and 
cold milk, stirring till smooth and thick. Cook for 
twenty-five minutes, stirring often to keep the sauce 
smooth. Add the butter a few minutes before taking 
from the fire. Less butter may be used. In case 
the sauce is lumpy, strain, before using. 

White Sauce No. 3, 

Heat most of the milk in a frying pan, mix the 
rest with the flour and salt; when milk in frying 
pan boils, stir in the thickening, letting it boil up 
once. Add butter and serve. 

The first way given makes a richer, smoother 
sauce, and may be used where a small quantity is 
needed. In making a large quantity, the second 
way is the easier. 

Browned Crusts. 

Spread slices of bread thinly with butter, cut in 
small blocks, place in a shallow pan and put in a 
moderate oven till golden brown, stirring occasion- 
ally with a fork in order that they may brown evenly. 
Serve with soup. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 121 



CHAPTER XIV. 



PIES. 



Pies form one of the most indigestible desserts, 
and should, therefore, be but rarely indulged in. 
The pastry here given is not rich, and is less objec- 
tionable than that often used. 

In making pastry have all materials as cold as pos- 
sible and avoid handling the dough. It is better to 
make all juicy fruit pies without an under crust. 
Otherwise the juice will soak into the crust and 
render it unwholesome. 



Pastry for One Pie With Two Crusts, or Two Pies 
With One Crujt. 

i>^ c. flour. }i tsp. baking powder. 

I tsp. salt. i c. lard or cottolene. 

Enough cold water (about ^ c.) to make stiff 
dough. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt together, cut 
lard in with knife, or rub in with the fingers, and 
gradually mix in water, with a knife. Toss on a 
floured board, pat out and roll up like a jelly roll, 
divide in two parts and roll, to fit the plate. 



122 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

'Apple Pie With One Crust. 

5 tart apples. 2 tbsp. water. 

-J c. sugar. spk. salt. 

^ tsp. cinnamon or nutmeg. 

Wipe and pare the apples, cut them in quarters, 
cut out the core, and cut each quarter into two or 
three pieces, lengthwise. Fill a deep granite pie 
plate with the apples, add water, sugar, salt and 
spice. Roll out crust a very little larger than the 
plate, keeping it as round as possible. Cut small 
holes in the center of crust, and place it loosely over 
the pie, tucking the edge under and pressing it down 
firmly. Pour cold water over the crust draining 
quickly just before putting the pie in the oven. 
Bake about half an hour or till apple is soft and 
crust is browned delicately. 

'Apple Pie With Two Crusts. 

Roll out, and loosely line a floured plate with half 
the crust. Put a row of pieces of apple near the 
edge and fill the rest into the center. Roll out 
the remainder of crust, cut places in center, place 
loosely over the top, trim the edge but do not press it 
down, pour cold water over crust, drain off quickly 
and bake till apple is soft and crust nicely browned. 
When done remove upper crust, add sugar and 
spice, mixing all well together and replace crust. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. I23 

Rhubarb Pie. 

Wash rhubarb, cut in one-half-inch pieces, put in 
deep pie plate, having narrow strip of paste around 
the edge, sprinkle with sugar mixed with flour, al- 
lowing J^ c. sugar and 2 tbsp. flour to every cup 
rhubarb. Cover with paste and bake like apple pie. 
All juicy fruit pies should be made in the same way. 

Custard Pie. 

2 eggs. ji tsp. salt. 

34 c. sugar. i>4 c. milk. 

Line a deep plate with pastry, building up a rim. 
Beat eggs slightly, add sugar, salt and milk, mix 
v/ell, pour into the plate, and grate over with nut- 
meg. Bake in a moderate oven till custard puffs up 
and a knife blade comes out clean when tried. 

Lemon Pie. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. Ys c. cold water. 

^ c. sugar. }i c. boiling water. 

Grated rind and juice of i large lemon. 
2 tbsp. cornstarch. 

Beat egg yolks slightly, add sugar, lemon juice 
and lemon rind. Mix cornstarch with cold water, 
pour over the boiling water, stirring till thick and 
smooth and add to the first mixture. Pour all into 
a plate lined as for custard pie and bake in a moder- 
ate oven, till the inside is set and crust nicely 
browned. Remove from the oven, and, when 



124 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

slightly cool, cover with the whites of the eggs that 
have been beaten till stiff, and then mix with one 
and one-half tablespoons sugar. Bake on the top 
shelf of a slow oven for about fifteen minutes till 
slightly brown. If baked too fast the top will not 
become cooked all the way through, and will fall 
when taken from the oven. If cooked too much it 
will be tough. 

Mince Meat for Pies. 

Cook a small piece of beef, cut from the rump, 
neck or shoulder, in boiling water to cover. When 
meat is tender, cool, throw out all bits of gristle, and 
chop fine. Measure the chopped meat, and to every 
cup of meat add three cups chopped apple, one-half 
cup chopped suet, one-half cup molasses, one cup 
cup cider, one tablespoon salt, two teaspoons cin- 
sugar, grated rind and juice of one lemon, one 
tablespoon salt, two teaspoons cinnamon, one-half 
teaspoon ground cloves, one-half small nutmeg 
grated, one half cup strained coffee, three-fourths 
cup seeded raisins washed, and dried, thre^-fourths 
cup washed currants, a small piece citron chopped, 
and enough liquor in which meat was cooked to 
moisten. Heat gradually and simmer for about an 
hour or till apple is soft. This can be put away in 
jars and kept for several weeks, in cold weather. 
Mince pies are baked with two crusts. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. I25 



CHAPTER XV. 

PUDDINGS, PUDDING SAUCES, COLD DESSERTS, STEWED 
FRUITS, ETC. 

Bread Pudding. 

2 c. stale bread crumbs or stale bread broken in 
small pieces. 
I qt. milk. ^ c. sugar. 

I tbsp. butter melted. 2 beaten eggs. 
I tsp. salt. 
I tsp. vanilla, a grating of nutmeg, or J^ tsp. other 
spice. 

Soak bread crumbs for an hour in the milk, add 
the other ingredients, mix well, and bake in a slow 
oven, about one hour. 

The pudding may be varied by mixing in either 
one square Baker's chocolate melted, or three table- 
spoons cocoa dissolved in a little hot water. The 
whites of the eggs may be saved out, and stiffly 
beaten with two tbsp. sugar, and be spread over the 
pudding fifteen minutes before it is done, and the 
pudding then put on the top grate of the oven till 
browned delicately. One cup apple sauce spread 
over the top, and covered with the frosting makes 
still another agreeable change. 



126 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Cream of Rice Pudding. 

I qt. milk. ^ c. sugar. 

{- c. rice. J^ tsp. salt. 

Wash the rice and put it in a greased pudding dish 
with the sugar, salt and milk. Mix well and let 
stand for one half hour or more. Then bake in a 
very slow oven, for about three hours, stirring often 
at first. The pudding may be flavored with a grat- 
ing of nutmeg if liked. Serve pudding either hot 
or cold. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 

I qt. milk. J^ tsp. ginger. 

3J/2 tbsp. corn meal. i well beaten ^gg. 

I tsp. salt. \ c. molasses or J4 c. sugar. 

Heat I pt. of the milk in a clean frying pan, and 
when it reaches boiling point, stir in meal, gradually, 
allowing it to cook 10 minutes, stirring all the time. 
Remove from fire, add salt, ginger, molasses, beaten 
Qgg, and the remainder of the milk ; mix well, pour 
into a greased pudding dish, and bake slowly, for an 
hour and a half. A few seeded raisins may be ad- 
ded, if desired. 

"Apple Tapioca Pudding. 

% c. pearl tapioca. 6 large sour apples. 

f qt. boiling water. 1/2 tsp. salt. 

^ c. sugar. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 127 

Wash tapioca, add boiling water and salt and cook 
over hot water till tapioca is transparent. Pare and 
quarter the apples, put in a buttered pudding dish, 
sprinkle the sugar over them and cover all with the 
cooked tapioca. Bake in a moderate oven till the 
apples are soft. Serve either hot or cold with 
sugar and milk. 

Baked Custard. 

4 eggs. I qt. milk. 

J4 c. sugar. y2 tsp. salt. 

Grating of nutmeg. 

Beat eggs slightly, add sugar and milk, pour into 
a greased pudding dish, grate nutmeg over the top, 
set pudding dish in a pan of hot water and bake 
slowly till custard puffs up, and when tried with a 
knife blade, the same comes out clean. 

Baked Squash or Pumpkin Pudding, 

2 c. cooked and sifted squash or pumpkin. 

3 c. milk. I tsp. salt. 

I c. sugar ^ tsp. cinnamon. 

I beaten egg. 

Mix and bake like the custard. This is more 
easily prepared, as well as more digestible than pie. 
Canned squash or pumpkin may be used. 



128 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Steamed Suet Pudding. 

2j4 c*. flour. J/2 tsp. cinnamon. 

^ c. chopped suet. 54 tsp. ground clove. 

I tsp. soda. Grating of nutmeg. 

V/i tsp. salt. ^ c. seeded raisins. 

1 c. molasses. i c. milk. 

Sift soda and other ingredients into the flour, rub 
in suet, add raisins, molasses and milk. Mix and 
beat well. Pour the mixture into a well-greased 
lard pail or into baking powder tins, not filling them 
more than two-thirds full. Grease and put on 
cover, set pail on a piece of iron or tin in a kettle 
containing enough boiling water to come half way to 
the top. Cover kettle and steam pudding for at 
least two hours. The water must not stop boiling, 
and more boiling water must be added from tea- 
kettle as it boils away. Serve hot, with lemon, 
foamy, or hard sauce. 

The raisins may be omitted. Before chopping 
suet, take off the skin, wipe the suet and sprinkle 
well with flour. 

Plain Plum Pudding. 

2 c. flour. Grating of nutmeg. 
4 tsp. baking powder. % c. sugar. 

I tsp. salt. 2 eggs, well beaten. 

y2 tsp. cinnamon. I c. milk. 

54 tsp. clove. 2 tbsp. melted butter. 

y2 c. seeded raisins, washed, cut in halves, and rolled 

in a little of the flour. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. I29 

Mix in the order given, beat well, and steam like 
the suet pudding. Serve with lemon or foamy 
sauce. One cup blueberries may be used instead of 
raisins. 



Steamed Chocolate Pudding, 

2 c. flour. 2 eggs. 
^ c. sugar. I c. milk. 

3 tsp. baking powder. i tbsp. butter melted. 

2 squares Baker's chocolate melted. 

Sift dry ingredients together and add to them the 
eggs well beaten, and the milk. Add melted butter 
and chocolate. Beat well, put in a greased tin pail, 
cover, and steam like suet or plum pudding. Melt 
chocolate in a saucer placed in top of tea kettle. 



Foamy Sauce. 

2>4 tbsp. butter. i egg. 

Yz c. sugar. }4 c. boiling water. 

I tsp. vanilla or 2 tbsp. fruit juice. 

Put butter in a bowl and work till creamy, add 
sugar gradually and continue creaming. Just be- 
fore serving, add egg well beaten, hot water and 
flavoring. Beat all well together till foamy. 



130 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 



^ard Sauce, 

3 tbsp. butter. 5^ c. powdered sugar. 

J^ tsp. vanilla or a grating of nutmeg. 

Cream butter, and gradually work in sugar. Add 
flavoring, pack smoothly in a small dish, cover and 
set in a cold place till ready to use. One-half cup 
mashed strawberries may be beaten into the sauce in 
place of the vanilla. 



Lemon Sauce. 

II c. sugar. 2 tbsp. cornstarch. 

2 c. water. Juice of i large lemon. 

Thin rind of J^ lemon. i tbsp. butter. 



Boil sugar and water together with the lemon rind 
for two or three minutes. Take out and throw 
away the lemon rind ; add cornstarch that has been 
mixed till smooth with a little cold water, and cook 
for five minutes or till very clear, stirring all the 
time. Add lemon juice and butter, and when butter 
has melted, serve. The juice of two oranges or 
three-fourths of a cup of strawberry or other fruit 
juice may be used in place of the lemon. The sauce 
requires a little less sugar when the less acid fruits 
lEUigused^ 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. I3I 

Corn Starch Mould. 

j4 c. corn starch. i pt. milk. 

J4 c. sugar. ^ tsp. salt. 

J^ tsp. vanilla. 

Scald milk, mix corn starch, sugar and salt with 
a little cold water, and add to scalded milk. Cook 
over hot water 20 minutes, stirring most of the time. 
Add vanilla, and pour into a cold, wet bowl or tin. 
When cold, turn out, and serve with apple sauce 
or with mashed and sweetened strawberries. 

Cream Chocolate Pudding, 

Yz c. sugar. 2 tbsp. cocoa. 

3^ tbsp. corn starch. 3 c. milk. 

J4 tsp. salt. Yz tsp. vanilla. 

Scald 23^ c. of the milk ; mix sugar, corn starch, 
cocoa and salt with the rest of milk, add mixture 
to the hot, scalded milk, and cook over hot water 20 
minutes, stirring most of the time. When done set 
in a pan of cold water to cool, stirring occasionally 
to prevent skin forming on top. Flavor, pour into a 
deep dish, cover and keep in a cold place till ready to 
use. 

Junket. 

I qt. milk. i junket tablet or 

Yz tsp. vanilla. i tbsp. liquid rennet. 

Y2 c. sugar. Grating of nutmeg. 



132 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Heat milk till lukewarm, add sugar, vanilla, and 
junket tablet which has been dissolved in one tbsp. 
lukewarm water, or add the liquid rennet. Mix 
well, pour into cups, and let stand in a warm place 
till mixture jellies. Grate nutmeg over the tops and 
put in a cold place till ready to use. If the milk is 
heated too much or too little the junket will not act. 
One half cup clear strong coffee may be used for 
flavoring, in place of vanilla and nutmeg. 

Lemon Jelly, 

Yz box gelatine. | c. sugar. 

Yi c. cold water. Juice 3 lemons. 

I pt. boiling water. Rind of i lemon. 

Soak the gelatine in cold water. Wash and pare 
one lemon very thinly, taking off only the yellow 
part, put lemon rind in the saucepan with the hot 
water, let boil one or two minutes, then pour the 
boiling water over the gelatine, add the sugar and 
juice of the three lemons. Strain and pour into a 
cold, wet tin or bowl. 

Snow Pudding. 

54 box of gelatine. ^ c. sugar. 

y^ c. cold water. ^ c. lemon juice. 

I c. boiling water. Whites 3 eggs. 

Soak gelatine in the cold water, add the boiling 
water, sugar and lemon juice, stirring till gelatine 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 1 33 

is dissolved. Put in a cold place till the mixture 
begins to stiffen. Then add the whites of the eggs 
well beaten, and beat all together with an egg beater 
till mixture is stiff enough to hold its shape. Pour 
into a cold, wet tin or bowl. Serve with a soft cus- 
tard made of the egg yolks. 

Soft Custard, 

I pt. milk. 5 tbsp. sugar. 

Yolks of the 3 eggs. ^ tsp. salt. 

J4 tsp. vanilla. 

Scald milk slightly, beat egg yolks, add sugar and 
salt, and pour over them the scalded milk. Cook 
over hot water for about four minutes, or till the 
custard thickens and forms a coating on the spoon. 
Stir constantly and when done strain into a cold 
dish. Stir occasionally while cooling. When cold, 
add vanilla. If the custard cooks too long it will 
curdle. In case this happens, pour out into a cold 
dish and beat with an egg beater. A soft custard, 
to be served alone, may be made by using two whole 
eggs instead of three yolks. 

Ice Cream, 

Ice cream is cooling and refreshing in summer 
and may be easily and cheaply made. In case one 
has no freezer, the mixture to be frozen may be 
poured into a tin pail, covered, set in a larger pail or 
pan, packed with ice and rock salt, and the inside 



134 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

pail be often turned round and round. The cover 
should occasionally be taken off and the cream 
scraped from the sides with a spoon, and all then 
be beaten well together. That made with the junket 
seems richer and more creamy than the cream made 
in either of the other two ways given. The milk 
sherbet is particularly refreshing on a hot day. 

Ice Cream, No. J. 



I qt. milk. 


I c. sugar. 


3 tbsp. flour. 


I egg. 


ji tsp. salt. 


I c. cream. 



Scald I pt. of the milk, beat egg slightly, add 
sugar, flour and salt; mix well and pour the hot 
milk over the mixture. Then cook it over hot water 
20 minutes, stirring most of the time. Cool, add the 
rest of milk with the cream. Flavor and freeze, us- 
ing three parts crushed ice to one part rock salt. 

Ice Cream, No. 2. 

Heat I qt. milk and i c. cream with ^ c. sugar, 
till lukewarm, add one junket tablet dissolved in a 
little cold water, or add i tbsp. liquid rennet, 
and pour into the freezer ; let stand in a warm room 
till mixture jellies, and when cold, flavor, and 
freeze. 

Ice Cream, No. j. 

Mix I qt. milk with i^ c. cream and J4 c. 
sugar. Flavor and freeze. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. I35 



Vanilla Ice Cream, 

Add 2 tsp. vanilla to either of the above before 
freezing. 

Coffee Ice Cream, 

Flavor the mixture with J4 c. strong coffee before 
freezing. 

Strawberry Ice Cream. 

Wash, hull and mash i box strawberries, sprinkle 
well with sugar, and let stand an hour or more. Add 
to cream before freezing. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. 

For chocolate ice cream, add one and a half 
squares of chocolate to ice cream number one, while 
it is cooking; first having grated or melted the 
chocolate ; or use three tbsp. cocoa instead of choco- 
late. 

Peach Ice Cream. 

Pare and remove stones from i qt. ripe peacheS; 
cut in small pieces, sprinkle well with sugar, mash, 
and add to either of the three mixtures before freez- 
ing. 

Banana Ice Cream. 

Remove skins from three bananas, mash, and add 
with i^ tbsp. lemon juice, to cream before freezing. 



136 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Milk Sherhert. 

Juice of 5 lemons. 3 pts. milk. 

2 c. sugar. 
Mix lemon juice and sugar, add milk slowly and 
freeze at once. 

Apple Sauce. 

Pare, quarter and core sour apples. Put in a 
stewpan, with just enough water to keep from 
scorching. Cover and cook till tender. When 
done add sugar to taste, and beat with a wooden 
spoon till free from lumps. 

Baked Apples. 

Wipe and core sour apples, put in a baking dish 
and fill the center of each apple with i tbsp. sugar 
and a little cinnamon, if spice is liked. Put i tbsp. 
of water for each apple in bottom of the pan. Bake 
in a hot oven till apples are soft, basting often with 
the syrup in the pan. If the apples are not very 
fair they may be pared. In that case cover closely 
for the first fifteen minutes. Then take off the 
cover, and baste often till apples are soft. 

Rhubarb Sauce. 

Wash rhubarb and cut it in one-inch pieces. Put 
in a saucepan, sprinkle well with sugar, cover closely 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. I37 

and cook slowly till tender. There is so much water 
in rhubarb that very little, if any, water need be 
used in cooking it. 

Stewed Prunes, 

Wash prunes, put in a saucepan, cover with cold 
water and let stand for one or two hours. Cook 
slowly in same water, till prunes are tender. When 
nearly done sweeten to taste and add a little lemon 
juice. 

Cranberry Sauce. 

I qt. cranberries. 2 c. sugar. 

I c. water. 

Wash cranberries, and put them in a stewpan with 
the water and sugar. Cover and put over the fire, 
allowing them to cook slowly, ten minutes after they 
begin to boil. Keep covered and do not stir. If 
sifted sauce is desired, the cranberries may be rubbed 
through a sifter while they are hot. 

Bananas for a Dessert, 

Remove skins, cut bananas in slices, place in 
layers in a deep dish, pouring over each layer and 
over the top, lemon juice, that has been well sweet- 
ened with sugar. Keep in a cold place for an hour 
or more, before serving. 



138 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 



CHAPTER XVI. 

CAKE^ ICING, CAKE FILLINGS, GINGERBREAD AND 
COOKIES. 

General Directions for Making Cakes With Butter. 

Before making a cake see that the fire is right, so 
that coal will not have to be added while the cake is 
baking. Grease and flour the pans, or line them 
with greased paper. Measure all the ingredients. 
Cream the butter, that is, rub it lightly till it is soft, 
with the back of a spoon against the side of the 
dish. Add sugar by degrees. Add beaten egg 
yolks with milk, a little at a time, alternately with 
the flour. After stirring, beat all well together. 

The beaten whites are added last. In putting the 
mixture into the pans, be careful none gets on to the 
sides of the tin, and have the mixture come well to 
the corners and sides of the pan. Bake cake on the 
bottom of the oven. Divide the time of baking into 
quarters. If a cake is to bake 40 m. at the end of 
ten m. it should be raised and full of bubbles. At 
the end of 20 m. it should be spotted with brown 
and the bubbles burst. At the end of 30 m. it 
should be light brown all over, and at the end of 40 
m. it should shrink from the pan, and when tried 
with a straw should not stick. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. I39 



Feather Cake, 

4 tbsp. butter. 25^ tsp. b'k'g powder. 

I c. sugar. 2 eggs. 

I}4 c. flour. y2 c. milk. 

yi tsp. vanilla. 

Put butter in mixing bowl, and work it with a 
spoon till creamy, add sugar gradually, and con- 
tinue creaming. Sift flour and baking powder to- 
gether; separate yolks of eggs from whites, beat 
yolks till light colored and thick, and add milk. 
Then add milk and tgg mixture to creamed butter 
and sugar, alternately with flour. Add flavoring, 
stir and beat well. Lastly add whites of eggs, 
beaten stiff. Put in a shallow, gre.ased and floured 
pan, or one lined with buttered paper. Bake about 
30 m. or till cake shrinks from the pan, and does 
not stick when tried with a straw. 

The feather cake may be varied and made into a 
number of different kinds. 

Spice Cake. 

Before adding the beaten whites, add three- 
fourths cups seeded raisins, that have been washed, 
dried, cut in halves, and rolled in a little of the flour 
reserved for the purpose. Flavor with one-fourth 
teaspoon ground cloves, one-half teaspoon cinna- 
mon, and a grating of nutmeg, instead of vanilla. 



140 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Marble Cake, 

Color half the feather cake mixture with one-half 
tablespoon melted chocolate. Mix the white and 
dark part when putting it in the pan, so that they 
will be well mingled though distinct. 

Ribbon Cake. 

To one-third the feather cake mixture, add one- 
half teaspoon mixed spices, and one-half cup seeded 
raisins cut in pieces. Bake in a shallow pan, and 
the remainder in two other shallow pans. When 
done, put the fruit cake between the others with a 
layer of jelly or frosting between. 

Layer Cake. 

Bake feather cake mixture in round tins and put 
a cream, chocolate or other filling between. 

Children's Cake, 

3 tbsp. butter. i c. cold water. 

I c. sugar. 2 c. flour. 

I tgg. 4 tsp. baking powder. 

I tsp. vanilla. 

Cream the butter, add half the sugar and con- 
tinue creaming. Beat egg till light and add with 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. I4I 

the water and rest of the sugar to the creamed 
butter. Add flour mixed with baking powder. 
Flavor, beat well and bake in a shallow pan about 
half an hour. 

Surprise Cake. 

4 tbsp. butter. i c. milk. 

I c. sugar. 2 c. flour. 

I egg. 4 tsp. baking powder. 

I tsp. vanilla. 

Mix carefully, bake like children's cake, and you 
will be surprised at its lightness. 

Wedding Cake. 

J4 c. butter. 3>^ tsp. baking powder. 

i^ c. sugar. I tsp. cinnamon. 

3 ^SS yolks. }4 tsp. ground cloves. 

J^ c. milk. J^ tsp. grated nutmeg. 

2^2 c. flour. ^ tsp. powdered mace. 

% c. seeded raisins washed, dried, and cut in pieces. 
^ c. currants, washed and dried. 
yi lb. citron cut in small, thin pieces. 
Whites of 3 eggs. 

Roll fruit in one-half cup of the flour, and mix 
the rest with baking powder and spices. Mix like 
feather cake, adding the floured fruit just before 
the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake in a thick 
loaf, in a moderate oven. Cover with a plain, white 
icing. 



142 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Sponge Cake. 

Yolks 2 eggs. Grated rind of i lemon. 

I c. sugar. I c. flour. 

}i c. hot water. i^ tsp. baking powder. 

I tsp. lemon juice. J^ tsp. salt. 
Whites 2 eggs. 

Beat yolks till light colored and thick, add half 
the sugar gradually, and contiue beating; then add 
the hot water, the rest of the sugar, the lemon juice 
and rind. Beat well, and add flour mixed with 
baking powder and salt. Beat all well together, and 
lastly, cut and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of the 
eggs. Put in shallow, greased and floured pan, and 
bake in a moderately hot oven from twenty to 
twenty-five minutes. 

Quick Sponge Cake. 

2 eggs. i>4 tsp. baking powder. 

I c. sugar. >4 tsp. salt. 

I c. flour. y2 c. hot milk. 

yz tsp. flavoring. 

Beat eggs till very light, add sugar and beat 
again. Add half the milk gradually beating it in 
with an egg beater. Add flour that has been mixed 
with the baking powder and salt, and continue beat- 
ing. Lastly add the remainder of the hot milk 
and flavoring. Bake in a greased and floured pan. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. I43 



Plain Icing. 

Put two tablespoons boiling water in a bowl, 
add a few drops of vanilla, and stir in gradually 
enough confectioner's sugar to make the mixture 
stiff enough to spread. It will take nearly a cup. 
Spread while cake is warm. 

• Chocolate Icing. 

Use three tablespoons hot water and add three 
teaspoons cocoa, before adding the sugar. 

Cream Filling for Layer Cake. 

I c. milk. 4 tbsp. flour. 

y2 c. sugar. I egg. 

iV tsp. salt. J^ tsp. vanilla. 

Scald milk, beat eggs, add sugar, flour and salt, 
mix well together and pour into the hot milk. 
Cook over hot water for twenty minutes, stirring 
all the time at first. When cold, add vanilla. 
Put between the layers of cake just before serving. 

Chocolate Filling. 

J4 c. sugar. 2 tsp. cornstarch. 

I c. milk. y2 tsp. vanilla. 

' J^ c. grated chocolate or cocoa. 



144 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Mix ingredients in the order given, and cook 
over hot water for about twenty minutes or till 
smooth and glossy, stirring all the time. Stir 
till nearly cool and spread between and on top 
the layers of cake. 

Orange Filling. 

f c. sugar. % tsp. salt. 

2>4 tbsp. flour. I egg. 

Juice of J^ lemon. i}i tsp. butter. 

Grated rind of one, and juice of 2 sour oranges. 

Beat egg slightly, add sugar mixed with flour, 
salt, orange juice, grated rind and lemon juice. 
Cook over hot water fifteen minutes, stirring all the 
time. Add butter, just before taking from the fire. 
Stir occasionally while cooling. Spread between 
the layers, just before serving. Sprinkle top of 
cake with powdered sugar. 

Gingerbread. 

1 c. molasses. i tsp. soda. 

J^ c. boiling water. ij^ tsp. ginger. 

2 c. flour. J^ tsp. salt. 

4 tbsp. melted butter or dripping. 

Put molasses in mixing bowl and sift into it the 
soda, ginger and salt. Mix well, then add melted 
shortening and hot water. Lastly add flour grad- 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. I45 

ually, mix and beat well. Bake in a shallow, 
greased floured pan, or in gem pans about 25 min- 
utes. 

Soft Molasses Cookies, 

I c. molasses. J^ tsp. salt. 

I tsp. ginger. J4 c. milk. 

I tsp. soda. 

J^ c. beef dripping or lard, softened. 
Flour to make a dough that can be rolled out. 

Sift ginger, salt and soda into the molasses, add 
milk and beef dripping softened, then stir in flour. 
Roll out, y^. inch thick, cut in rounds and bake 
on a greased floured tin, about ten minutes, being 
careful that they do not burn. Use as little flour 
as possible when rolling out. 

Ginger Snaps. 

I c. molasses. 3 tbsp. butter. 

13^ tsp. ginger. 3 tbsp. beef dripping 

I tsp. soda. or lard. 

^ tsp. salt. Flour to roll very thin. 

Heat the molasses, add beef dripping and butter, 
sift in soda, ginger and salt. Add gradually enough 
flour (about 334 c.) to make a stiff dough. Chill, 
roll very thin, cut with a small cutter or tin cover, 
and bake about ten minutes in a greased and 
floured pan. 



146 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Sugar Cookies. 

3 tbsp. butter. J4 c. milk. 

3 tbsp. dripping or lard. i tgg. 
I c. sugar. 2 c. flour. 

Yz tsp. salt. 2 tsp. baking powder. 

2 tsp. vanilla or J4 tsp. cinnamon or nutmeg. 

Cream butter and lard, add sugar gradually; 
then add o^gg well beaten with the milk, the flavor- 
ing, and the flour mixed with baking powder and 
salt. Mix well and add enough more flour to roll. 
Roll thin, cut out, and bake. 



And household economist. 147 



CHAPTER XVII. 

CANDY. 

Pure candy is not harmful if eaten in small quan- 
tities at the proper time. It should never be eaten 
just before a meal, but may be eaten right after 
meals. Home-made candy is more wholesome and 
much cheaper than that bought at the shops. 

When making candy that is meant to be clear, 
avoid stirring, as that makes it cloudy and tends 
to cause it to go back to sugar. A small quantity 
of vinegar or cream of tartar helps keep it clear, 
and enables it to be more easily handled. 

Peanut Candy, 

1 pt. peanuts. i c. granulated sugar. 

Shell and chop peanuts. Put the sugar in a clean 
frying pan, place over the fire and stir constantly 
till sugar melts and becomes light brown in color. 
Stir in quickly the chopped peanuts and pour out 
at once into a buttered tin. When partly cool 
mark off in squares. 

Peppermints or Checkermints. 

I c. sugar. ^ c. boiling water. 

54 tsp. peppermint or wintergreen extract. 



148 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Put sugar and hot wMer in a saucepan, place 
over the fire and do not stir after sugar has dis- 
solved Let boil for about 4 minutes. Remove 
from fire, flavor, stir till creamy and drop by tea- 
spoonfuls on greased paper. If the mixture be- 
comes too thick add a few drops hot water. 

Molasses Candy. 

2 c. Porto Rico molasses. 
5^ c. sugar. I tbsp. vinegar. 

J4 tsp. soda. I tbsp. butter. 

Put molasses, sugar, butter and vinegar in a kettle 
or stewpan and let mixture boil till brittle when 
tried in cold water. Add soda just before taking 
from fire, stir well and pour out into a buttered dish. 
When cool enough to handle, pull till light colored. 
Cut in sticks or small pieces. 

Fondant for Creams. 

Put the white of i egg in a bowl, with an equal 
amount of cold water, add >^ tsp. vanilla, mix well 
and stir in gradually enough confectioners* sugar 
(about lyi lb.) to make the mixture stiff enough to 
form in balls. Shape, place walnut meats on each 
ball, or fill dates that have been washed and stoned. 
Place on buttered paper. 

For chocolate creams melt some Baker's choco- 
late in a saucer placed on top of a tea-kettle of hot 
water, and when melted dip the balls of fondant in 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. I49 

it. Take out with a fork and put on buttered 
paper to dry. 

The fondant may be flavored with i tbsp. clear 
coffee instead of vanilla. 

Chocolate Fudge. 

2 c. granulated sugar. i tbsp. butter. 
J4 c. milk. I tsp. vanilla. 

I c. grated chocolate or >^ c. cocoa. 

Put sugar, milk, butter and grated chocolate or 
cocoa into a smooth, clean saucepan, place over the 
fire, heat to boiling point, stirring occasionally till 
sugar has melted, and then cook without stirring for 
six or eight minutes, or till the mixture forms 
a soft ball when tried in cold water. Remove 
from fire, add vanilla and beat till creamy. Pour 
into a greased pan, and, when slightly cool, mark off 
in squares. 

Salted Peanuts. 

Buy peanuts before they are roasted, shell, pour 
boiling water over them, rub off the skins, dry, and 
put into a saucepan with hot melted butter, allowing 
three tablespoons butter for a quart of peanuts. 
Cook till peanuts are delicately browned, stirring 
constantly with a fork. Take out on a skimmer, 
put on brown paper to drain, and sprinkle well with 
salt. If any butter is left, pour it out into a cup, 
cover and save to use another time. 



150 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Stuffed Dates, 

Thoroughly wash and wipe dates, make a cut 
through the entire length of each date and take 
out the stone. Fill the dates with peanut or Eng- 
lish walnut meats, press into their original shape, 
and roll in granulated sugar. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. I5I 

CHAPTER XVIII. 

DRINKS. 

Tea and coffee have but little food value, though 
they act as stimulants when used in moderation. If 
used to excess, they cause nervousness and sleepless- 
ness. On this account they should never be given 
to children. Only freshly boiled water should be 
used in their preparation, as long boiling renders 
water flat and insipid. Tea must never be allowed 
to boil, as boiling extracts some of the tannin (a 
poisonous substance) from the leaves. A mixture 
of green and black tea makes a satisfactory com- 
bination. It is better to buy coffee in the bean, 
and grind it when ready to use. Two-thirds Java 
and one-third Mocha is commonly considered the 
best. Cocoa not only acts as a stimulant, but has 
some value as a food, on account of the fat which 
it contains, as well as the milk used in its prepara- 
tion. Weak cocoa may be given to children after 
their third or fourth year. 

Tea. 

Scald the teapot and put in tea, allowing i tsp. 
for each cup of boiling water. Pour in the freshly 
boiling water and let stand on the stove shelf, not 
on the stove, for 5 m. and serve. Tea must never 
boil. A slice of lemon may be served with each cup 
of tea instead of milk. 



152 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 



Coffee, 

Scald the coffee pot, put in the coffee with some 
clean ^gg shells if you have them, allowing 2 tbsp. 
coffee for every cup of boiling water, add the boil- 
ing water and let boil 3 m. Set back on the stove 
where the coffee will keep hot, but not boil, for 10 
m. before serving. If coffee is left over, strain it 
into a pitcher or bowl, cover, and save for jelly or 
to reheat. Thoroughly wash, scald, and dry coffee 
pot after using. 

Cocoa. 

I pt. milk. 4 tbsp. sugar. 

I pt. water. 3 tbsp. cocoa. 

Heat milk and water in a saucepan, then add the 
sugar and cocoa, after mixing it with a little hot 
water. Stir constantly till the cocoa boils. Let 
boil three minutes. Or scald milk over boiling 
water, boil water, sugar and cocoa together for 
five minutes, add to hot scalded milk, stir well and 
serve. 

Iced Tea. 

Make and strain into a large pitcher. When 
partly cool, add juice of three lemons for every 
quart of tea, with sugar to taste. Keep in a cold 
place, and a few minutes before using add some 
pieces of ice. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 1 53 



Lemonade. 

1 c. sugar. Thin rind of i lemon. 

2 c. water. Juice of 3 lemons. 

Boil water, sugar and lemon rind for ten minutes. 
When partly cool, strain, add lemon juice, cover, 
and when ready to use, add ice water to suit the 
taste. Or squeeze lemons, and add the sugar and 
ice water to make it the right strength. 

Fruit Punch. 

1 c. sugar. y2 c. cold tea. 

2 c. water. Juice of 5 lemons and rind of I. 
Juice of 4 oranges or juice from i box strawberries. 

Boil sugar, water and lemon rind for ten minutes, 
cool, add fruit juices, strain, and add ice water to 
taste. The berries should be washed, hulled, mashed, 
sprinkled with sugar and allowed to stand for some 
time, then be put in cheese cloth and the juice 
pressed out. A few of the berries may be saved 
whole and put into the punch. A pineapple may be 
pared, chopped, sprinkled with sugar, and added in 
place of oranges or strawberries. Raspberries or 
currants can also be used, instead of strawberries 
or oranges. Use any fruit when in season. Fruit 
drinks are cooling in summer and more wholesome 
than the soda water bought at the drug stores. 



154 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

CHAPTER XIX. 

INVALID COOKERY. 

Hints on the Care of the Sick. 

Give the patient as large and as sunny a room as 
possible. It is better that there be no carpet on the 
floor. Remove dust from furniture with a damp 
cloth, and wipe floor with a damp cloth instead of 
sweeping it. Have bed so placed that door and win- 
dows can be opened without placing patient in a 
draught. Keep the room thoroughly aired by occa- 
sionally opening windows at top and bottom. Be- 
fore doing this, put a blanket over the patient's body 
and head to prevent taking cold, and do not remove 
the blanket till the room is warm again. See that the 
bed linen is kept clean, and under sheet drawn 
tightly to avoid wrinkles. 

In cases of fever, allow patient to have cold 
water, other cool and refreshing drinks, and cracked 
ice. Keep all drinks carefully covered. Give a 
sponge bath every day if the doctor permit. 

Be especially careful that foods for the sick are 
cooked and served in very clean pans and dishes, and 
that all dishes used by the patient are thoroughly 
cleansed before being used by anyone else. Pre- 
pare and give food in small quantities, and serve 
it on the prettiest dishes in the house. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 1 55 

Never leave food, fruit, or dirty dishes stand- 
ing in the sick room, and never allow food or drink 
that has been left by the patient to be taken by 
others. 

Keep the house as quiet as possible. Never slam 
doors or windows, and do not speak in a loud voice, 
nor whisper in the room, but speak in gentle tones. 

Beef Tea. 

The best piece of beef for beef tea is from the 
top round, as that contains the most and best flavored 
juice. Wipe the meat, remove the fat, scrape with 
a sharp pointed knife, or cut in very small pieces, 
and as fast as it is cut or scraped put in a glass jar 
containing cold water, allowing i pt. water to i lb. 
meat. Cold wafer draws out the juice. Cover and 
let it stand ^ hour. Then place jar on a piece of 
iron or tin in a kettle, and surround with cold water. 
Set back on the stove and allow water to heat slowly, 
and then keep it just below the boiling point for an 
hour or an hour and a half, or longer. Press through 
a strainer to obtain all the juice, and add salt to taste. 
Heat over hot, not boiling water, before serving. 
Save the meat, mix with cold cooked mashed or 
chopped potato, season well and make into hash for 
the family, using more fat in warming up than in 
making other hash. 

Beef Juice. 

Make like the beef tea, putting no water in the 
jar with the meat. 



156 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Mutton Broth. 

Ij^ lb. neck of mutton, i tsp. salt. 

2 qts. cold water. 2 tbsp. pearl barley. 

Take off skin and fat, wipe meat, cut in small 
pieces and put it in a kettle or stewpan with the 
bones, cold water and salt. Heat slowly, skim and 
cook on back of the stove for three or four hours, or 
till meat is in shreds. Strain, cool, take off the fat 
and heat again to boiling point. Wash and add the 
barley to the broth, letting it cook till very tender. 
The broth should be served very hot. In case 
globules of fat can be seen on the hot broth they may 
be absorbed by placing a piece of soft brown paper 
over the top for a few seconds. Barley is the most 
easily digested form of starch, and for that reason 
it is, as a rule, better for an invalid than rice. The 
mutton may be saved and used in the same way as 
the beef from beef tea. 

Boiled Milk, 

Give boiled milk in cases of diarrhoea. 

Lemonade. 

Thin rind of ^2 lemon. i^ tbsp. sugar. 
I c. boiling water. Juice of i lemon. 

Wash the lemon, pare one half very thinly, 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 1 57 

white part of rind is bitter, cut rind into small 
pieces, pour the boiling water over it, add sugar, 
cover and let it stand till cool; add lemon juice, 
strain and serve with chipped ice. Use more or less 
sugar, according to the taste of the patient. 

Orangeade. 

Rind of ^2 sour orange. Juice of i orange. 
I c. boiling water. i tbsp. sugar. 

Make like lemonade. 

Flaxseed Lemonade, 

J tbsp flaxseed. ij^ c. cold water. 

Thin rind of J^ lemon. 3 tbsp. sugar. 
Juice of ^ lemon. 

Wash flaxseed and put it in a saucepan with the 
cold water and lemon rind. Cover and let simmer 
on back of the stove for an hour or more. Strain, 
add lemon juice and sugar. Serve hot or cold. 
Flaxseed lemonade is given to patients suffering 
with a cold affecting throat or lungs. 

Barley Water. 

lYz tbsp. barley. Juice of Yz lemon. 

I pt. cold water. lYi tbsp. sugar. 

Wash barley, drain, add cold water, cover and let 
stand for one or two hours. Place over the fire and 



158 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

cook slowly for two hours. Strain, add lemon juice 
and sugar. Heat before serving. A little salt may 
be added if desired. 

Toast Water. 

Toast slices of bread slowly until they are very 
brown, but not burned. Break into small pieces and 
add boiling water, allowing i pt. water to ij/^ c. 
toast. Let stand for one-half hour. Strain through 
cheese cloth, season with salt and serve very hot or 
very cold. The bread may be browned in the oven 
instead of being toasted. Toast water is given in 
cases of extreme nausea. Sometimes it can be re- 
tained on the stomach when nothing else can. 

Cracker Gruel. 

% c. powdered crackers. J^ c. boiling water. 
y^ tsp. salt. Yz c. milk. 

Mix cracker, salt, boiling water and milk. Cook 
for a few minutes, stirring constantly. Thin with 
milk if too thick. Cracker gruel is given in cases 
of bowel trouble. 

Indian Meal Gruel. 

Ij4 c. boiling water. i tbsp. cornmeal. 

54 tsp. salt. I tsp. flour. 

Mix meal, flour and salt with enough cold water 
to make a smooth paste, and stir into it the boiling 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. I59 

water. Boil slowly thirty minutes, stirring often. 
Thin with hot milk before serving and add more salt 
if needed. 

Indian meal gruel is too heating, to be given in 
cases of fever, and too irritating where there is 
weakness of the bowels. It is sometimes given 
where there is a lack of heat in the system. 

Milk Porridge. 

I c. milk. I tbsp. flour. 

Salt to taste. 

Heat milk, mix flour to a smooth paste with a 
little cold water, add to the hot milk and boil from 
six to eight minutes, stirring all the time. Season 
with salt and strain if lumpy. A little sugar may 
be added if liked. Milk porridge is given for loose- 
ness of the bowels. 

Eggnog, 

I egg. % c. milk. 

I tsp. sugar. spk. salt. 

Beat egg till light, add sugar, salt and milk. Stir 
thoroughly and serve in a glass or cup. 

Dropped or Poached Egg. 

Break the egg carefully into a saucer and slip it 
into a frying pan of hot, salted water. Dip the hot 
water over the yolk with a spoon while cooking. 



l6o HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

When the white is firm and a film has formed over 
yolk take up the tgg with a skimmer, drain, trim off 
rough edges and serve on a slice of toast. Season 
with salt. 

Creamy Egg. 

I egg. I tsp. butter. 

3 tbsp. milk. i^tsp. salt, 

spk. pepper. 

Beat egg slightly, add salt, pepper and milk. Melt 
butter in a saucepan placed over hot water, pour in 
egg mixture and cook till it thickens and becomes 
creamy, stirring all the time, and scraping from the 
bottom and sides, so that it may cook evenly. If 
cooked too much the mixture will curdle. Serve on 
toast. The butter may be omitted. 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange. 

I tbsp. Irish moss. yV tsp. salt. 

J/2 c. milk. Few drops vanilla. 

Pick over and wash the moss, put it in a small 
saucepan with the milk, place over hot water and 
cook for a few minutes till it will thicken when tried 
on a cold dish. Add salt and flavoring and strain 
into a cup. Serve cold, with sugar and cream. 

Germea and Dates. 

2j^ tbsp. germea. ^ c. boiling water. 

% tsp. salt. 4 or 5 dates. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. l6l 

Have the water boiling in a clean saucepan, add 
the salt and stir in the germea very slowly to pre- 
vent lumping and allow it to cook for five minutes, 
stirring all the time. Place over hot water, cover 
and cook thirty minutes, stirring occasionally. 
Wash and wipe dates, remove stones, cut dates in 
quarters and stir them into the cooked germea. 
Serve with cream or milk, and a little sugar. Cream 
of wheat or wheatena may be used in place of ger- 
mea. 

Junket. 

yi c. milk. % junket tablet, or 

A few drops vanilla. 5^ tsp. liquid rennet. 
J^ tbsp. sugar. Grating of nutmeg. 

Heat the milk till lukewarm, add vanilla, sugar, 
and tablet, which has first been thoroughly dissolved 
in a teaspoon of water. Mix well, pour into a cup, 
cover and let stand in warm place till the mixture 
jellies. Grate the nutmeg over the top and keep in 
a cold place till ready to use. If the milk is heated 
too much the junket will not act. The junket may 
be made into ice cream by mixing a little cream 
with the milk, using more sugar and freezing the 
mixture after it jellies. 

Ice Cream, 

% c. cream. i>^ tbsp. sugar. 

J4 c. milk. Flavoring. 



1 6a HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

Mix ingredients in a baking powder tin. Put 
on cover, set can in a pail or dish and surround with 
crushed ice and rock salt, using 3 parts ice to i part 
salt. Turn the can around often, and occasionally 
take off the cover, scrape the cream from the sides 
with a spoon as it freezes and beat it well. When 
frozen pour off water, beat cream with a spoon, 
pack it evenly in the can and put on the cover. Let 
stand till ready to serve. Put more ice around the 
can if needed. For flavoring use Yz tsp. vanilla, i 
tbsp. strong coffee or >4 c. fruit juice. 

Lemon Ice, 

Yi c. water. Ya c sugar. 

I lemon. 

Boil sugar and water together with a small thin 
piece of lemon rind, for about 3 minutes. Cool, 
add lemon juice and freeze like ice cream. 

Orange Ice, 

Y2 c. water. 2 small oranges. 

3 tbsp. sugar. 

Make and freeze like lemon ice. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 163 

CHAPTER XX. 

SUGGESTIONS FOR SIMPLE BILLS OF FARE. 

The following simple bills of fare suggest a few 
combinations of nutritious, palatable and inexpen- 
sive dishes, suitable for winter and summer. Meals 
similar to those here given can be prepared for a 
family of six, including three grown people and 
three children, for five and one-half dollars a week, 
or at an average cost of ninety-two cents per person. 
The expense can be considerably reduced by omit- 
ting the desserts. In winter more meat and other 
hearty food is required than in warm weather. Heat- 
giving cereals like oatmeal and cornmeal should be 
then used, as well as hot vegetable soups, baked 
beans, stews, pot roasts and corned beef. These lat- 
ter can be cooked at this season, when a fire is kept 
all day, without extra expense for fuel. Green veg- 
etables should not be bought, except when they are 
in season. Potatoes and other winter vegetables 
like carrots, onions and cabbage, can usually be 
bought at reasonable prices. Dried peas, beans and 
lentils, all of which are particularly nutritious, are 
always cheap. When potatoes are expensive rice 
may sometimes be cooked and served as a vegetable 
in their place. In summer, on the contrary, less 
meat and heat-giving foods are needed. Whenever 
meat is to be served, employ some method of cook- 
ing that requires but little time, or cook it on a day 
when a fire is being used for other purposes. As 
substitutes for fresh meat, fish, both fresh and salt, 



1 64 HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK 

canned corned beef and dried beef, as well as eggs 
and milk, cooked in different ways, may be often 
used. There is no waste to canned corned beef, 
and according to the best authorities, it furnishes 
more muscle-making material, pound for pound, 
than most kinds of fresh meat. Never leave the 
meat standing in the can after it is opened. When 
berries and fruit are cheapest they should frequently 
be used for desserts in place of puddings. When 
puddings are to be served they should, as a rule, be 
eaten cold. As a quart of milk contains about the 
same nutriment as a pound of meat, it can readily be 
seen that at all seasons it is one of the most eco- 
nomical of foods. Milk absorbs odors and germs, 
and therefore should always be kept covered in a 
cool place. The skim milk, which is so largely sold 
in grocery stores in the city for four or five cents 
a quart, does very well for cooking purposes, but 
should not be given to babies. That which comes 
in closed jars should be bought for them, and for 
sickly babies it should be sterilized and diluted 
according to the directions given by the attend- 
ing physician. Instead of using cornmeal and oat- 
meal altogether in summer, use the less heat-giving 
cereals, like Pettijohn's breakfast food, and other 
forms of wheat. At no season of the year give 
young children much meat or other heavy food. 
Give them pleanty of milk, cereal, bread and butter 
and once in a while a well-baked potato. Occosion- 
ally let them have a little sweet. This may be given 
in the form of jam or sauce spread on slices of bread, 
or as plain cookies. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 165 



BILLS OF FARE FOR ONE WEEK IN 
WINTER. 

Sunday. 

Breakfast 

Hasty Pudding. Milk. 

Warmed Over Baked Beans. Bread and Butter. 
Coffee. 

Dinner, 

Beef Roll with Tomato Sauce. 

Mashed Potato. Boiled Onions. 

Bread Pudding. 

Supper, 
Tea. Milk Toast. Cheese. Ginger Cookies. 

Monday. 
Breakfast, 

Fried Hasty Pudding. Bacon. 

Warmed Over Mashed Potato. Coffee. 

Dinner. 

Boiled Neck of Mutton, Caper Sauce. 
Steamed Rice. Bread. Baked Apples. 

Supper. 
Potato Soup. Browned Crusts. Bread. Cheese. 



1 66 hartley house cook book 

Tuesday. 

Breakfast 

Oatmeal, with Milk and Sugar. Finnan Haddie. 
Bread and Butter. Coffee. 

Dinner. 

Beef Stew, with Dumplings. Bread. 

Lemon Jelly. 

Supper. 

Broth Made from Mutton Bones and Liquor 
in Which Mutton Was Cooked. 
Bread and Butter. Gingerbread. 

Wednesday. 

Breakfast. 

Warmed Over Stew. Commeal Muffins. Cocoa. 

Dinner. 

Corned Beef and Cabbage. Stewed Fruit. 

Supper. 

Macaroni and Cheese. Bread and Butter. Tea. 



and household economist. 167 

Thursday. 

Breakfast, 

Corn Beef Hash. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 

Dinner, 

Pot Roast of Beef. Boiled Potatoes. 

Boiled Carrots. Cream of Rice Pudding. 

Supper, 

Split Pea Soup, with Uneeda Biscuit. 
Bread and Butter. Plain Cookies. 

Friday. 

Breakfast, 

Oatmeal. Herring. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 

Dinner, 

Baked Cod, Drawn Butter Sauce. 

Mashed Potato. German Cabbage. 

Steamed Suet Pudding. 

Supper, 

Lentil Soup. Bread and Butter. 



1 68 hartley house cook book 

Saturday. 

Breakfast, 

Fried Mush. 

Hash from Left Over Fish or Potato. 

Bread and Butter. Cocoa. 

Dinner. 

Baked Beans. Steamed Brown Bread. 

Apple Tapioca Pudding. 

Supper. 

Cream of Tomato Soup. Brown Crusts. 

Bread and Butter. One Egg Cake. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 169 

BILLS OF FARE FOR A WEEK IN SUMMER. 
Sunday. 

Breakfast. 
Milk Toast. Cheese. Coffee. 

Dinner, 

Hamburg Steak. Boiled Potatoes. 

Lettuce. Bread and Berries. 

Supper. 
Bread and Butter. Cheese. Iced Tea. 

Monday. 

Breakfast. 

Pettijohn*s, with Milk and Sugar. 
Creamed Dried Beef. Coffee. 

Dinner. 

Liver and Bacon. Baked Potatoes. 

Stewed Dried Lima Beans. Bread and Butter. 

Stewed Rhubarb. 

Supper. 

Bread and Butter. 
Omelet. Cookies. 



170 hartley house cook book 

Tuesday. 

Breakfast. 

Salt Codfish Balls. Bread and Butter. Cocoa. 

Dinner. 

Fried Ham. Boiled Potatoes. 

Boiled Beets. Bread. 

Sliced Bananas, with Lemon Juice and Sugar. 

Supper. 

Bread and Butter. Sliced Dried Beef. 

Ginger Wafers. Iced Tea. 

Wednesday. 

Breakfast. 

Oatmeal, with Milk and Sugar. 
Scrambled Eggs. Coffee. 

Dinner. 

Canned Corn Beef. Saratoga Chips. 

Pickled Beets. Bread and Butter. 

Corn Starch Mould, with Mashed Berries. 

Supper. 

Bread and Butter. Corned Beef Sandwiches. 

Cold Coffee. Crackers and Cheese. 



AND HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIST. 



171 



Creamed Codfish. 



Thursday, 

Breakfast. 
Bread and Butter. 
Dinner, 



Coffee. 



Cold Boiled Ham. Lettuce. Bread and Butter. 
Uneeda Biscuit. Neuchatel Cheese. 



Egg Salad. 



Supper. 

Bread and Butter. 

Friday. 

Breakfast. 



Cold Coffee. 



Quaker Oats. 
Herring. 



Baked Mackerel. 
Cold Slaw. 



Bread and Butter. 
Coffee. 

Dinner. 

Mashed Potato. 
Crackers and Cheese. 



Supper. 

Salt Codfish Chowder. 
Bread and Butter. Cocoa. 



172 hartley house cook book 

Saturday. 

Breakfast. 

Cream of Wheat Cereal, Sugar and Milk. 
Bread. Fried Bacon and Poached Eggs. Coffee. 

Dinner. 

Round Steak. Lyonnaise Potatoes. Tomatoes. 
Bread and Butter. Coffee Junket. 

Supper. 

Baked Apples or Berries, with Bread and Milk. 
Spice Cake. 



INDEX. 



A. 

FAGB. 

Abbreviations used in recipes 22 

Air 13 

Airing Beds 13 

Clothing 13 

Rooms 13 

Apple Cake, Dutch 109 

Fried, with Pork 72 

Pies 122 

Sauce I 136 

Tapioca Pudding 126 

Apples, Baked 136 

Asparagus, Boiled 38 

B. 

Bacon, Fried 71 

Baking Powder Biscuit 109 

Banana Ice Cream I35 

Bananas and Lemon Juice for a Dessert 137 

Barley in Broth 69 

Barley Water 157 

Beans, Baked with Pork 39 

Boston Baked 39 

Green Shelled 38 

Stewed 40 

String 38 

Baked 43 

Cream of Dried Lima 43 

Bean Soup 42 

Beef Cakes, Pan-broiled 61 

Canned Corn, Food Value of 164 

Chart Showing Cuts 52 

Corned, Boiled and Cabbage 68 

Hash with Beets 75 

Dried, Creamed 67 

Juice 155 



174 INDEX. 



PAGB. 

Beef Liver^ Fried 71 

Stewed 65 

Ox Tail Soup 67 

Pie 63 

Pot Roast 62 

Roast 60 

Gravy for 60 

Roll 64 

Rolled Flank 62 

Stuffing for 62 

Selection of 47 

Steak, Broiled 61 

Pan-broiled 61 

Stew, with Dumplings 66 

Tea 155 

Toad in the Hole 63 

Tripe 68 

Beets, Boiled 35 

Berries, as a Dessert 164 

Mashed with Cornstarch Mould 130 

Berry Cake or Muffins 106 

Juice in Fruit Punch 153 

Juice in Ice Cream 135 

Pies (see Apple Pie with One Crust) 121 

Biscuit, Baking Powder 109 

Bills of Fare, Suggestions for 163 

for Summer 169—172 

for Winter 165—168 

Blanc Mange 160 

Boston Baked Beans 39 

Brown Bread 117 

Bread and Rolls iii 

Baking 112 

Brown, Boston 117 

Brown, Steamed, No. 2 118 

Care of 113 

Crumbs 118 

Entire Wheat, No. i 115 

Entire Wheat, No. 2 116 

General Rules for Making in 

Graham, No. i 116 

Graham, No. 2 117 

Kneading 112 

Mixing 112 

Pudding 125 

Rolls, Parker House 114 



INDEX. 175 



PAGE. 

Bread iii 

Tests for Good Bread 112 

Water 114 

White 113 

Uses for Stale 118 

Brown Crusts 120 

Crumbs 1 18 

Dry Toast 118 

Milk Toast 119 

Yeast for Making iii 

Test for Freshness iii 

Breakfast Cakes 104 

Blueberry Cake or Muffins 106 

Cereal Muffins 105 

Corn Cake, with Sour Milk or Buttermilk 106 

with Molasses 106 

Corn Muffins 105 

Entire Wheat or Graham Muffins 104 

General Rules for Mixing and Baking 104 

Griddle Cakes 107 

Corn Meal 108 

Sour Milk 107 

White Flour Muffins 105 

Breakfasts 165 — 172 

Broiling, General Rules for 48 

Broth Mutton 156 

Brown Bread 117 — 118 

Browned Crusts 120 

C. 

Cabbage, Boiled 35 

With Corned Beef 68 

German 36 

Salad or Cold Slaw 36 

Cake, Gingerbread and Cookies 138 

Cake, Children's 140 

Dutch Apple 109 

Feather 139 

General Rules for Making and Baking 138 

Icing, Chocolate 143 

Plain 143 

Layer 140 

Filling for 143 

Chocolate 143 

Cream 143 

Orange 144 



176 INDEX. 



FAGB. 

Cake Marble 140 

Ribbon 140 

Short 109 

Spice 139 

Sponge 142 

Quick 142 

Surprise 141 

Wedding 141 

Candy I47 

Chocolate Creams 148 

Fudge 149 

Fondant 148 

General Directions for Making i47 

Molasses 148 

Peanut I47 

Peppermints or Checkermints I47 

Salted Peanuts ' I49 

Stuffed Dates 150 

Caper Sauce 69 

Carrot Soup 45 

Carrots, Boiled 35 

Cauliflower 37 

Care of Floors 14 

Gas Stove 16 

Ice Chest 19 

Sink 19 

Tea-kettle 19 

Toilet Closets 15 

Cereals and Macaroni 24 

General Rules for Cooking 24 

Hasty Pudding or Cornmeal Mush 27 

Fried 27 

Rice, Boiled 26 

Steamed 26 

With Cheese 26 

Rolled or Quaker Oats 25 

Time Table for Cooking 25 

Chart of Beef 52 

Mutton 56 

Pork 58 

Veal 54 

Cheese (Nutritious) loi 

Crackers 102 

Fondue 102 

Sour Milk or Cottage 103 

Welsh Rarebit loi 

With Macaroni 28 



INDEX. 177 



PAGE. 

Chicken 77 

Preparation for Roasting 78 

Roast 78 

Gravy for 79 

Stuffing for 78 

Selection of ^^ 

Children, Food for 164 

Children's Cake 140 

Chocolate Cream Pudding 131 

Creams 148 

Filling 143 

Fudge 149 

Ice Cream 135 

Icing 143 

Steamed Pudding 129 

Chops, Pan-broiled Mutton 62 

Pan-broiled Pork 72 

Chowder, Clam 95 

Fresh Fish 85 

Salt Fish ....* 89 

Clams 93 

Preparation for Cooking 95 

Steamed 95 

Cleaning Boards 18 

Floors 14 

Ice Chest 19 

Kitchen Tables 18 

Sink 19 

Stove 16 

Toilet Closets 15 

Cocoa 152 

Codfish, Fresh 83 

Baked 83 

Stuffing for 83 

Chowder 85 

Salt 86 

Balls 87 

Broiled 87 

Chowder 89 

Creamed 87 

Hash 88 

Baked 88 

Coffee 152 

Buying 151 

Clearing with Egg-shells 152 

Ice Cream 135 

Junket 131 



178 INDEX. 



Cookies I45 

Ginger 145 

Soft Molasses 145 

Sugar 146 

Corn, Boiled (see time table for vegetables) 29 

Cake 106 

Molasses 106 

Sour Milk 106 

Muffins 105 

Starch Mould 130 

Corned Beef, Boiled 68 

with Cabbage 68 

Hash 75 

Cottage Cheese 103 

Pie 75 

Cracked Wheat (see time table for cooking cereals) 25 

Cranberry Sauce 137 

Cream Chocolate Pudding 131 

Filling for Layer Cake 143 

Of Rice Pudding 126 

Of Tomato Soup 45 

Of Wheat Cereal (see Time Table for Cereals) 25 

Creams, Chocolate 148 

Walnut 148 

Custard, Baked 127 

Soft 133 



Dandelion Greens 37 

Dates, Stuffed 150 

Dinner, Bills of Fare 165 — 172 

Dish Towels, Care of 18 

Double Boiler, to Make 24 

Doughs, Baking Powder 108 

General Rules for Making 108 

Yeast 112 

General Rules for Making 112 

Dried Beef, Creamed 67 

Vegetables (Nutritious) 39 

Drinks, Cold 151 

Fruit Punch 153 

Iced Tea 152 

Lemonade 153 

for Invalids 156 



INDEX. 179 



PAGB. 

DrinkSi Cold, Orangeade for Invalids 157 

Hot 151 

Cocoa 152 

Coffee 152 

General Rules for Making 151 

Tea 151 

Drippings, to Prepare J^ 

Dropped or Poached Eggs 100 

Dumplings 67 

Dust, Danger in 14 

Dusting 14 

Dutch Apple Cake 109 

E. 

Egg, Creamy 160 

Custard, Baked 127 

Soft 133 

Nog 159 

Omelet 98 

Baked 99 

Salad 100 

Sauce (see Drawn Butter) 84 

Eggs, Boiled 97 

Hard 98 

Soft 97 

Care of 97 

Dropped or Poached 100 

Food Value 97 

Fried 99 

Griddled 99 

Scrambled 98 

Test for Freshness 97 

F. 

Fat for Drippings 73 

Waste, Use for 21 

Filling for Cake 143 

Chocolate 143 

Cream 143 

Orange 144 

Finnan Haddie, Baked 90 

Boiled 89 

Fires, to Build 15 

To keep over night 16 



l8o INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Fish, Fresh 82 

Baked 83 

Carving of 83 

Stuffing for 83 

Best Ways of Cooking 82 

Boiled 86 

Broiled 82 

Cakes 91 

Care of 82 

Chowder 85 

Food Value of 82 

Fried 86 

Hash 88 

Kinds 82 

Mackerel, Baked 85 

Broiled 83 

Salad 92 

Sauces for 84 

Drawn Butter 84 

Egg 84 

Hollandaise 84 

White 1 19 — 120 

Tests for Freshness 82 

Salt, Economical and Nutritious 86 

Cod Balls 87 

Broiled 87 

Chowder 89 

Creamed 87 

Hash 88 

Baked 88 

Finnan Haddie . . . .' 89 — 90 

Herring, Smoked 90 

Mackerel, Baked 90 

Ways of Warming Over 91 

Cakes 91 

Creamed 91 

Hash 91 

Scalloped 91 

Floors, Care of 14 

Flour Ill 

Best Kinds in 

Entire Wheat 113 

Graham 113 

White Ill 

Tests for Good Flour in 

Food, Cost of 163 



INDEX. l8l 



PAGB 

Foods for Summer 163 

Winter 163 

Fowl, Fricassee or Stew 80 

Fried Cereal 27 

Fruit as a Dessert 164 

Punch 153 

G. 

Gas Stove, Care of 16 

Cooking by 17 

Gelatin 46 

Germea Cereal 25 

With Dates 160 

Giblet Gravy 79 

Gingerbread I44 

Ginger Cookies I45 

Snaps 145 

Graham Bread, No. i 116 

Graham Bread, No. 2 117 

Muffins 104 

Gravy, Chicken 79 

Roast Beef 60 

Mutton 70 

Pork 70 

Veal 70 

Greens, Dandelion 37 

Kale 37 

Spinach 36 

Griddle Cakes 107 

Gruel Cracker 158 

Flour 159 

Indian Meal 158 

H. 

Haddock, Baked 83 

Ham, Broiled 72 

' Fried 7Z 

Hash 75 

Corned Beef 75 

Salt Codfish 88 

Baked 88 

Hasty Pudding 27 

Fried 27 



l82 INDEX. 



Herring, Smoked 90 

H. O. Cereal (see Time Table for Cooking Cereals).... 25 

I. 

Ice Chest, Care of 19 

Ice Cream, No. i, 2 and 3 134 

Banana 135 

Chocolate 135 

Cofifee 135 

For Invalids 161 

General Rules for Making 133 

Milk Sherbet 136 

Peach 135 

Strawberry 135 

Vanilla 135 

Iced Tea 152 

Indian Meal Gruel 158 

Mush 27 

Pudding Baked 126 

Invalid Cookery 154 

Barley Water 157 

Beef Juice I55 

Tea 155 

Blanc Mange, Irish Moss 160 

Boiled Milk 156 

Cracker Gruel 158 

Creamy Egg 160 

Dropped Egg 159 

Egg Nog 159 

Germea and Dates 160 

Indian Meal Gruel 158 

Ice Cream 161 

Junket 161 

Junket Ice Cream 161 

Lemonade 156 

Flax!seed 157 

Lemon Ice 162 

Milk Porridge 159 

Mutton Broth 156 

Orangeade 157 

Orange Ice 162 

Toast, Dry (see Chap, on Bread) 118 

Toast Water 158 

Invalids, Hints on Care of 154 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange 160 

Stew 69 



INDEX. 183 



Kale 37 

L. 

Lamb or Mutton Chops, Pan-broiled 62 

Lemonade I53 

For Invalids 156 

Lemon Filling for Pie 123 

Jelly 132 

Pie 123 

Sauce 130 

Lettuce to Prepare for Salad 34 

Liver, Fried with Bacon 71 

Stewed 65 

M. 

Macaroni 27 

Food Value of 27 

Rule for Cooking 2^ 

With Cheese 28 

With Tomato 28 

With White Sauce 28 

Mackerel, Fresh Baked 85 

Broiled 83 

Salt, Baked 90 

Measuring and Mixing 22 

Measures, Weights and Tables of 23 

Meat 46 

Care of 47 

Charts, Showing Cuts 52—58 

Composition of 46 

Food Value of 46 

General Rules for Cooking 47 

Kinds of 46 

Pie 63 

Selection of 47 

Time Tables for Cooking 50 — 51 

Ways of Warming Over 73 

Balls 74 

Cottage Pie 75 

Hash 75 

Minced on Toast 73 

Scalloped 74 



184 INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Milk, Economical and Nutritious 164 

Care of 164 

Danger in, as a Carrier of Germs 164 

for Babies 164 

for Children 164 

for Cooking 164 

Porridge 159 

Toast 119 

Mince Meat for Pies 124 

Minced Meat on Toast ^2i 

Mixing Ingredients 23 

Molasses Candy 148 

Cookies 145 

Corn Cake 106 

Muffins, Berry 106 

Cereal 105 

Corn 105 

Entire Wheat 104 

Graham 104 

White Flour 105 

Mush, Cornmeal 27 

Fried 27 

Oatmeal 25 

Mutton Boiled 69 

Sauce for 69 

Broth 69 and 156 

Chart Showing Cuts 56 

Chops 62 

Shoulder of ^o 

Stufiing for 70 

O. 

Oatmeal, Old-fashioned (see Time Table for Cooking 

Cereals) 25 

Omelet 98 

Baked 99 

Onions, Boiled 34 

Orangeade I57 

Orange Filling for Cake I44 

Orange Ice 162 

Sauce (see Lemon Sauce) 130 

Oven Heat, Tests for 17 

Oxtail Soup 67 

Oyster Stew 93 

Oysters, Buying 93 



INDEX. 185 



PACE. 

Oysters, Cleaning 93 

Expensive Food e 93 

Fancy Roast 94 

Scalloped 94 

P. 

Parker House Rolls 114 

Pastry for Pies 121 

Peanut Candy 147 

Peanuts, Salted 149 

Peas, Dried (Nutritious) 39 

Green 38 

Peppermints 147 

Petti Johns (see Time Table for Cooking Cereals) 25 

Pies 121 

Apple, with One Crust 122 

Two Crusts 122 

Beef 63 

Berry (see Pies with One Crust) 121 

Cottage 75 

Custard 123 

General Rules for Making 121 

Lemon 123 

Meat 63 

Mince 124 

Pastry for 121 

Rhubarb 123 

Pork 

Bacon 71 

Chart Showing Cuts of 58 

Chops 72 

Ham, Broiled 12 

Fried 1Z 

Roast 72 

Salt, Fried with Apple 72 

with Beans 39 

Potato Cakes 31 

Salad ZZ 

German 33 

Soup No. 1 41 

Soup No. 2 41 

Potatoes, Baked 30 

Boiled 30 

Creamed 31 

Lyonnaise Z'^' 



l86 INDEX. 



rAGB. 

Potatoes, Mashed . . > 31 

Roast 32 

Scalloped 32 

Poultry Tj 

Chicken TJ 

How to Select ']'] 

Roast 78 

Stuffing for 78 

Soup 80 

Cleaning TJ 

Food Value of 77 

Fowl Stew or Fricassee 80 

Selection of ^^ 

Turkey Roast 80 

Stuffing for 78 

Soup 80 

Prunes, Stewed I37 

Pudding, Apple Tapioca 126 

Baked Indian 126 

Bread 125 

Chocolate Cream 131 

Chocolate, Steamed 129 

Cornstarch Mould 131 

Cream of Rice 126 

Custard, Baked 127 

Soft 133 

Junket 131 

Coffee 132 

For Invalids 161 

Lemon Jelly 132 

Plain Plum 128 

Snow 132 

Squash or Pumpkin, Baked 127 

Suet, Steamed 128 

Puddings, etc 125 

Sauces for 129 

Foamy 129 

Hard 130 

Lemon 130 

Orange (see Lemon 130 

Strawberry (see Lemon) 130 



Quaker Oats 25 



INDEX. 187 



PAGE. 

R. 

Rhubarb Sauce 136 

Rice, Boiled 26 

Cleaning of 26 

Steamed 26 

with Cheese 26 

Used as a Dessert 26 

Used as a Vegetable 26 

Roast Beef 60 

Chicken 78 

Mutton 70 

Pork 72 

Turkey 80 

Veal 70 

Roasting, General Rules for 48 

Roll, Beef 64 

Rolled Flank 62 

Rolls, Parker House 114 

S. 

Salad Dressing 33 

Lettuce, to Prepare for 34 

Egg 100 

Fish 92 

Potato 33 

German 33 

Salmon 92 

Sauces for Meat and Fish 

Caper 69 

Drawn Butter 84 

Egg 84 

Hollandaise 84 

Tomato 65 

White, No. i 119 

White, No. 2 and 3 120 

Hot Puddings 

Foamy 129 

Hard 130 

Lemon 130 

Orange : 130 

Strawberry 130 

Scrubbing Boards and Unpainted Kitchen Tables 18 

Unpainted Floors 15 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Scotch Broth 69 

Setting the Table 20 

Shell Beans 38 

Shellfish 93 

Sherbet, Milk 136 

Short Cake 109 

Sink, Care of 19 

Snow Pudding 132 

Soap Making 21 

Soup, Baked Bean 43 

Bean 42 

Cream of Dried Lima 43 

Chicken or Turkey 80 

Cream of Carrot 45 

Lentil 44 

Oxtail 67 

Potato, No. I and 2 41 

Split Pea 44 

Tomato, Cream of 45 

Spice Cake 139 

Spinach, Boiled 36 

Sponge Cake 142 

Quick 142 

Steak, Broiled 61 

Pan-broiled 61 

Stew, Beef 66 

Irish 69 

Stewed Beans 40 

Liver 65 

Prunes 137 

Rhubarb 136 

Stove Coal, Care of 15 

Gas, Care of 16 

To Light Oven Burners 17 

To Light Top Burners 16 

Strawberries, Mashed, with Cornstarch Pudding 131 

Strawberry Ice Cream I35 

Juice in Fruit Punch I53 

Sauce 130 

Short Cake 109 

String Beans 38 

Stuffing for Fish 83 

Mutton 70 

Poultry 78 

Rolled Flank of Beef 62 

Veal (see Shoulder of Mutton) 70 



INDEX. l8g 

FAGS. 

Suet Pudding 128 

to Chop 128 

Sugar Cookies 146 

Supper, Bills of Fare 165—172 

Surprise Cake 141 

Sweeping 14 

T. 

Table of Weights and Measures 23 

Table, Time for Cooking Cereals 25 

for Cooking Meat 50 — 51 

for Cooking Vegetables 29 — 30 

Tapioca Pudding, Apple 126 

Tea-kettle, Care of 19 

Toad in the Hole 63 

Toast, Dry 118 

Milk (White Sauce) 119 

Toilet Closets, Care of 15 

Tomato Sauce 65 

Soup, Cream of 45 

Tripe 68 

Turnips, Mashed = 34 

Turkey, Roast 80 

Soup 80 

U. 

Use for Waste Fat 21 

V. 

Vanilla Ice Cream 135 

\^eal 47 

Chart Showing Cuts 54 

Pot Pie or Stew 71 

Roast 70 

Vegetable Soup 41 

Baked Bean 43 

Bean 42 

Carrot, Cream of 45 

Cream of Dried Lima Bean 43 

Lentil 44 

Potato, No. I and 2 41 

Split Pea 44 

Tomato, Cream of 45 



190 INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Vegetables 29 

Care of 29 

Dried (Nutritious and Cheap) 39 

General Rules for Cooking 29 

Selection of 29 

When to Buy 163 

Time Tables for Baking and Boiling 29 — 30 

Ventilation 13 

W. 

Walnuts, Cream 148 

Washing Dishes 18 

Ways of Warming Over Fish 91 

of Warming Over Meat T2) — 76 

White Bread 113 

Flour Muffins 105 

Sauce, No. i 119 

Sauce, No. 2 120 

Sauce, No. 3 120 

With Macaroni 28 



HAND BOOKS 

FOR 

PRACTICAL WORKERS 

IN 

CHURCH AND PHILANTHROPY 

EDITED BY 

SAMUEL MACAULEY JACKSON 

Professor of Church History in the New York University. 

THE BIBLE SCHOOL: A Manual for Sunday-school Workers. By A. 
H. McKiNNEY, Ph.D., Sec. N. Y. State Sunday-school Association, 
formerly pastor of Olivet Church. 60 cents net. 

SOCIAL SETTLEMENTS. (Including College and University.) By 
Prof. C. R. Henderson, D.D., Prof, of Sociology, University of 
Chicago, 111. 60 cents net. 

THE INSTITUTIONAL CHURCH. A Primer in Pastoral Theology. 
By Edward Judson, D.D., Pastor of the Memorial Baptist Church, 
New York City. With an introductory word by Bishop Potter. 60 
cents net. 

YOUNG PEOPLES' SOCIETIES. By Leonard Woolskv Bacon and 
Charles Addison Northrop, both of Norwich, Conn. 60 cents net. 

REVIVALS AND MISSIONS. By J. Wilbur Chapman, D.D., Pastor 
of Fourth Presbyterian Church, New York. 60 cents net. 

FACTORY PEOPLE AND THEIR EMPLOYERS. How Their Rela- 
tions are Made Pleasant and Profitable. Profusely illustrated. By 
Edwin L. Shuey, M.A., author of "Industrial Education Neces- 
sary," etc. 75 cents net. 

THE PRACTICE OF CHARITY. Co-operative and Individual At- 
tempts to Help Others. By Edward T. Devine, Ph.D., Gen. Secre- 
tary Charity Organization Society, New York. 65 cents net. 

THE HARTLEY HOUSE COOK BOOK and Household Economist. 
By Ella A. Pierce, Instructor to Cooking Classes in Hartley House. 
60 cents net. 

TO FOLLOW 

THE COUNTRY CHURCH. By Rev. Austin B. Bassett, Ware, Mass. 

65 cents net. 
CITY EVANGELIZATION. By Frank Mason North, D.D., New 

York City, Secretary Church Extension and Missionary Society of 

the M. E. Church. 65 cents net. 
WORKING PEOPLES' CLUBS. By Robert Graham, Secretary Church 

Temperance Society. 65 cents net. 
RELATIONS OF RELIGIONS AND PHILANTHROPY. By John 

Huston Finley, LL.D., Prof, of Princeton University, Ex-President 

Knox College. 65 cents net. 

NEW YORK 

LENTILHON & COMPANY 

150 Fifth Avenue 



SHUi 



190X 



DEC 20 1901 



1 COPY DEL. TO CAT. DW. 
DEC. 21 1901 



