





1,5 M ES 



^^ 



^Ti 



>rrwnsma 

rcj f ^ '0^ u V rc s 

Savouries, Salads* 

and 
^rfenial Dishes 




Cornell University Library 
TX 740.S4 1901 
Recherche side dishes for breakfa^^^^^^^^ 




3 1924 001 688 732 m.- 



FROM THE LIB'RARY OF 



James B. Herndon, Jr. 



PRESENTED BY HIM TO THE 

School of Hotel 
A dministration 



CORNELL UNIVERSITY 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924001688732 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



The most delicious. 
The most nourishing:. 
The most economical. 



van 



Ifouteifs 



bcoa 



it contains 
all the elements of a perfect 
food in an easily digestible form. 



BEST 
&r GOES FARTHEST- 



RecheechE Side Dishes 

Foe BEEAKPAST, LUNCHEON, 
DINNEK AND SUPPEB 






Comprising the newest 
HOES-D'CEUVEE 
SAVOUEIES 

SANDWICHES & SALADS 
OEIENTAL DISHES, Etc. 



BY 

CHAELES HERMAN SENN 

INSPECTOE & CONSULTINO CHEF, NATIONAL TBAINING SCHOOL 
OF COOKERY, LONDON 

Author of " PrMtAcal Gastronomy and Rech&reh^ Cookery " ; " The New Century 

Cookery Book " ; " The PraeUcal Cookery MatiuaV ; " Ices, and How to Make 

Them"; " Cookery for tlt^ People"; " The CuTAnary Encyclopedia" ; 

etc., etc. 



FOURTH EDITION 

ENTIRELY REVISED AND ENLARGED 



London 

Spottiswoode &, Co., Ltd. 

£4 GlUCECHDKCH SiBEET, E.C. 



A D VERTISEMENTS. 



(Uby not Satisfy yourself 



yf 



of the superiority of Brown & Poison's Paisley Flour over 
every other raising agent tor home baking and pastry 
making, by getting from your grocer a 7d. or S^d. packet 
for next baking day? Paisley Flour will enable the 
beginner with little practice to make delicious home-made 
bread and light pastry without trouble or fear of failure. 
It is used mixed 1 part with 6 to 8 parts ordinary flour, 
and as it blends readily with the ordinary flour everything 
is beautifully and evenly raised. 



Brown $ ?ol$on'$ 
"Paisley flour 



— Tbabe Mask 



MAKES HOME=BAKINQ A PLEASURE. 

lmijjjjj.iij.111111 

IIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIII HUM 



I II I nil mil III 



JT Popular ?ooa> 

There are few food delicacies so universally popular 
as Brown & Poison's "Patent" Com Flour. For the 
past forty years it has had a constant welcome at family 
tables and in nurseries and sick rooms in all parts of 
the world. Owing to its purity and strength, it goes 
farther than others and, therefore, though the first cost 
may be a little more, it is really more economical in 
the end. 

Ladies should note that our best quality bears the 
name " Patent " on the front oi the packet. 

Brown $i Pol$on'$ 

p.tMt Com Tlonr 

THE RECOGNISED BEST. 



4s'7 / 




AD VERTISEMENTS. 



LEMCO helps the Cook 




to cook as she 
should cook. 

There is more 
Beef concen= 
trated in a pound 
of Lemco than in 
a pound of any 
other food in the 
world. 



MEANS 



LIEBIG COMPANY'S EXTRACT. 



CONTENTS. 



PACte 

Inthodcction 3 

Side Dishes — Cold Hoes-d'CEuvke . , . 9 

* 

Sandwiches 51 

Breakfast Dishes and After Dinner Satoubies — 

Savoury Dishes of Fish . . . .<_:,. 72 

Savoury Meat Dishes 98 

Vegetable Entremets and Savouries . . . 116 

Savoury Egg Dishes, Ohelets, etc. . . . 151 

Farinaceous and Cheese Savouries . . . 182 

Salads and Salad Sauces 195 

Sour Fruit Salads 226 

r 

Oriental Dishes, Curries, etc 230 

Miscellaneous Becipes^and Sauces , , . 244 

Index. '' ► 257 



PREFACE. 



The chief mission of this book is that of 
presenting to the reader a collection of some 
500 reliable and workable recipes for Hors- 
d'CEuvre, Savouries, Salads, and Sandwiches, 
dishes suitable for the principal meals, which are 
commonly termed Side Dishes. It also contains 
numerous recipes for Breakfast and Supper dishes. 
A choice lot of original combinations for palatable 
and appetising dishes have been introduced in the 
various chapters. These dishes are not intended 
for the epicure alone, for they have been compiled 
and arranged to come within the possibility of the 
daily cuisine in every family. 

It is said that the chief charm of Hors-d'CEuvre 
and Savouries is the opportunity these dishes offer 
to the cook to prepare novel combinations, and I 
hope that a perusal of the present work will amply 
justify this assertion, for in it I have tried to show 
that the needs of small households in the matter 

A 



PREFACE. 



of dainty and yet inexpensive dishes have been 
considered. 

There are frequent hints as to the best means 
of utilising left-overs, such as cold fish and cold 
meat, showing how these can be turned into tasty 
and dainty dishes without much cost. 

Considering the fact that all the recipes are the 
outcome of practical experience and observation, 
and that their accuracy has been tested, the book 
should commend itself to the favourable con- 
sideration of every cook and housekeeper. 



London, October, 1901. 



INTRODUCTION. 



HOES-D'(EUVEB AND SAVOUEIES. 

Both Hors-d'CEuvre and Savouries are gradually 
becoming an important feature of every well- 
planned dinner ; although they are not considered 
as a distinct course, almost every menu of 
public or private dinners has either one or both 
of these dishes. 

It is only within the last fifteen or twenty years 
that Hors-d'CEuvre have become popular in this 
country, and this popularity has considerably 
increased within the last five years. 

Cold Hors-d'OEuvre, in the sense that we know 
them, together with the soup, form, so to speak, the 
prelude to a complete meal. The object of Hors- 
d'CEuvre is to promote an appetite or to cleanse 
the palate. In England and America but one kind 
of Hors-d'CEuvre is served, viz., the cold, and 
these are subdivided into two classes, the plain and 
the fancy dashes. In France and Russia cold and 
hot Hors-d'CEuvre are served ; the cold dishes are 
served before the soup, and the hot after the soup. 
I would here remark that the latter, viz., the hot 
dishes, consist principally of what we term Light 



INTRODUCTION. 



Entrees, such as Bouchdes, Eissoles, Croquettes, 
Oyster Patties, Petits Vol-au-vents, tiny Timbales, 
Casolettes, Cromeskies, Cannelons, Crfepinettes, 
Coquilles, Friandines, Boudins, etc., all tit-bits, 
tastily and daintily prepared and dressed without 
any sauce. In England we do not class these 
under the heading of Hors-d'CEuvre, but of Light 
Entries. 

In dealing with Hors-d'(Euvre proper, we find 
that both kinds, the plain and fancy dressed, 
consist of dishes which do not constitute a sub- 
stantial meal. Both the plain and dressed varieties 
are served separately on little glass or china plates, 
or so-called Hors-d'CEuvre dishes, which are of a 
special shape. 

The first, viz., the plain, include all kinds of 
cold relishes and table delicacies, such as Oysters, 
Caviare, Sardines, Anchovies, Herring Fillets, 
Prawns, Salmon smoked or marinated. Lax, Tunny, 
Boyans, Crayfish, Appetit Silds (Norwegian 
speciahty), Olives, Eadishes, pats of butter, various 
kinds of smoked sausages, such as Salami, Bologna, 
Brunswick, Lyons, Strasbourg, Ham, Liver, and 
other sausages. All these are dished as simply as 
possible, with a little garnish or parsley. The 
sausages are generally cut into very thin slices. 

Two or three of these plain dishes are frequently 
served, and placed on the table vnth one or two 
dressed Hors-d'GEuvre. These kind of dishes 
offer an almost unlimited scope for daintiness and 
artistic arrangement, the variety of ingredients 



INTRODUCTION. 



which can be employed for their preparation being 
very extensive — in fact, there is no strict hmit as to 
what is used. In the matter of dressed Hors- 
d'CEuvre special regard must be paid to their 
suitability ; they must be light and tasty trifles, 
for they are served at the beginning of a dinner as 
mere relishing appetisers. It is hardly possible to 
give a complete list of the dishes which may be 
prepared as dressed Hors-d' (Euvre . They commence 
with a dozen or more daintily cut fancy sandwiches, 
and comprise Crolites, Timbales, Casolettes, 
Pahnettes, Eosettes, Delicettes, Appetissants, and 
a host of other dainties, many of which are 
prepared from the ingredients named in the list of 
plain dishes. It is quite easy for anyone 
possessed with a certain amount of culinary skill 
and knowledge to arrange and adapt an immense 
variety of dishes with comparatively little trouble 
and expense. The selection of dishes served under 
this heading must, however, be strictly confined to 
such ingredients as will tend to stimulate or whet • 
the appetite, otherwise the venture is sure to prove 
a failure. Eemember, also, that whatever may be 
selected, the portions must be small enough not 
to impair the enjoyment of the remainder of dishes 
which constitute a dinner. 

Another important point to be observed is that 
all these dishes must be dressed or dished in the 
smartest manner possible, so as to give a foretaste 
of the dishes which are to follow, or, in other 
words, so as to create a good impression on the 



INTRODUCTION. 



minds of the guests — " well begun, half finished." 
These dishes being placed on the table before the 
guests assemble will impart a pretty appearance, 
more especially as the dishes made for holding 
Hors-d'CEuvre are so quaint and attractive in 
shape. A novel plan lately introduced is for the 
portions for each guest to be placed on their plates 
just before they enter the dining-room. This is 
in every way a mistake. 

Every country has its own specialities in Hors- 
d'OEuvre. Eussia takes the credit of having first 
introduced these side dishes. In Eussia, Caviare, 
Salt Herrings, Anchovies, and other highly- 
flavoured dainties are partaken of by the guests 
before they enter the dining-room, or these 
dishes are put on a sideboard in the dining- 
room, where the guests help themselves as they 
enter. A glass of Kiimmel, Schnaps (a kind of 
brandy), or other liqueur is usually consumed at 
the same time. 

Some of the noted Parisian houses have 
adopted this system of serving Hors-d'CEuvre, but 
it is hardly hkely that it will be introduced into 
this country, being quite repugnant to Enghsh 
habits and taste. 

Savoueies. — Savoury dishes, belong to the 
Entremet course, and are introduced among the 
third course dishes. There are two classes of 
Entremets : the vegetable dishes (dressed vege- 
tables), or Entremets de Legumes; and the sweet 
dishes, or Entremets sucr^s, the latter forming 



INTRODUCTION. 7 



practically the last course. I have yet to speak of 
Savoury Entremets, for they form part of this 
last course. The majority of diners, or rather 
those who know how to dine, would not consider 
any dinner complete without some kind of savoury 
as a conclusion to the repast. 

A Savoury is served for a purpose, and that is to 
give to the palate the final stimulus or piquancy. 

There are, however, some fastidious persons who 
regard Savouries as a medium of cleansing the 
palate so as to excite a new thirst for the after-dinner 
wine, and for this reason it is stated so many of 
the lady guests decline the Savoury when it is 
handed round. Nothing to my mind can be more 
absurd. 

The nurnber of Savoury dishes, both hot and 
cold, afford a boundless choice, as well as an 
immense scope in design and arrangement, so 
that there is no difficulty at any season of 
the year to find a good selection of Savouries 
when compihng a menu. It is hardly necessary 
to say that Savouries, both hot and cold, are alike 
popular. During recent years the popularity has 
considerably increased, for a vast number of new 
Savoury dainties have been introduced. 

Fish are prepared, cured, smoked, or marinated, 
etc., and put up in many forms, often ready for 
immediate use on being simply heated and dressed 
on a crodte or round of toast, forming at once pretty 
and delicate dishes. Among such we may mention 
the following : Cod Boe, Smoked Salmon, Kippers, 



INTRODUCTION. 



Herrings, Preserved Lax, Fillets of Anchovies 
(S, rhuile). Marinated Fillets of Herrings, Soft Eoes 
of Herrings, Prawns, preserved, plain, cnrried or 
devilled, etc. These are all very excellent for hot 
Savouries, and each of the articlfes named can be 
served in several ways. 

Cheese dishes are perhaps of equal popularity as 
fish Savouries. These consist of preparations 
wherein cheese forms the principal ingredient used. 
A number of cold dishes are made in the form of 
creams, souffles, etc. , Among the principal articles 
which are used for all kinds of Savoury dishes we 
may include the following, in addition to those 
already named : Parmesan, Gruyfere, Cheddar, and 
other dainty cheeses. Oysters, Devilled Bones, 
Marrow, Mushrooms, Eggs, Artichoke bottoms, 
Olives, and many others. 

The plan of serving up Savouries is practically 
the same as for Hors-d'CEuvre ; everything 
should be arranged and prepared in very small 
portions. This accounts to some extent for the 
popularity of the many little Souffles, Beignets, 
Diablotines, Tartines, Fondues, Kamequins, 
Canapes, and Croltons, they being convenient in 
shape, and at the same time acceptable and of a 
light and delicate form, each portion being just 
sufficient for one guest. In whatever form a 
Savoury is prepared, the cook and housekeeper 
alike should put forth their very best efforts to 
make these dishes a complete success, thereby 
securing pleasurable impressions to the guests. 



Side t)isbes for t)inners, 
Suppers, and bight "Repasts. 



COLD HOES-D'(BUVEE. 



HOBS-D'(EUVBE A LA BUSSE. 

These everyday relishes may consist of plain or 
dressed dishes ; in the former case a selection 
of sardines, anchovies, herring fillets, smoked 
sausages (cut into thin slices), radishes, etc., are 
neatly arranged in hors-d'oeuvre dishes, and thus 
handed round at the beginning of a dinner; the 
dressed dishes usually consist of fish, such as cold 
salmon or turbot, cold chicken or cooked smoked 
sausages— the former, i.e. the fish, are shredded 
finely, whilst the latter are minced rather coarsely. 
The dressing or seasoning used in each case is 
either oil and vinegar (vinaigrette), salt and pepper, 
or mayonnaise dressing. They must be carefuUy 
mixed with just enough dressing to moisten, and 
dished up in a heap in tiny glass dishes, little 
china or paper cases. Finely shredded lettuce, 
pickled gherkins (chopped finely), small white or 
red radishes, etc., are frequently used as garnish 
for these dishes, the success of which largely 
depends upon the taste shown in the dishing up 
and garnish. 

s. D. ' B 



SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D'CEUVRE. 



ANCHOVIES. 

Les Anchois. 

Anchovies, like sardines, are considered most 
suitable and agreeable appetisers at the breakfast, 
luncheon, and dinner-table. They are a Mediter- 
ranean fish, mostly preserved in salt brine. 
EiUets are, as a rule, preserved in oil. _ They are 
greatly ajppreciated on account of their dehcious 
and relishing flavour. Salted anchovies should 
be soaked in cold water before use ; they require 
washing and vdping gently with a cloth. To 
remove the fillet from the bones, split them dovni 
the back, which is done with the forefingers and 
thumbs of both hands. Following are a few of 
the numerous ways in which anchovies are pre- 
pared for table. 

ANCHOVY SAIiAD. 

Anchois en Salade. 

Wash some anchovies in water, wipe off the 
skins, remove heads, tails, fins, and bones. Cut 
them into thin strips, put them on a dish, with 
some lettuces cut small, chopped parsley, capers, 
and thin slices of lemon, all nicely arranged. Mix 
some lemon juice with a little salad oil, pour over, 
and serve. This dish can be garnished with 
chopped whites and yolks of hard-boiled eggs and 
turned olives, according to fancy. 

ANCHOVY SALAD WITH ONIONS. 

Salade d' Anchois aux Oignons, 

Wash some anchovies, steep them in vinegar, 
drain and wipe them carefully with a cloth ; bone 



ANCHOVY CANAPEES, PRINCESS- STYLE. 



the anchovies, cut the fillets into small strips ; dish 
them up in lattice-work fashion on small glass 
dishes ; garnish with groups of hard-boiled white 
of egg, yolk of egg, chopped parsley, chopped 
button onions, French capers, and chopped 
pickled beetroot. Pour a little sweet oil over the 
whole, and serve. 

ANCHOVY CANAPEES. 

Anchois sur Canapes, 

Have some slices of white bread half an inch 
thick, cut them out in fingers, fry them in 
clarified butter until light brown, then drain them 
on a cloth. Spread each with a layer of anchovy 
butter, and lay a small fillet of Gorgona anchovy 
oyer each. Dish up on a glass dish, and garnish 
with finely chopped parsley, yolk and white of 
hard-boiled eggs. Instead of frying the bread, 
fingers of toasted bread can be used for the 
canapees. 

ANCHOVY CANAPEES, PRINCESS STYLE. 

Canaph aux Anchois a la Prineesse. 

Cut some cleaned fillets of anchovies into short 
strips, chop finely some hard-boiled eggs, also 
some chervil, tarragon, and chives. Cut some 
slices of bread, about a quarter of an inch thick, 
stamp them out with a tin cutter in round shapes ; 
fry these in clarified butter of a light colour, and 
drain. Place the chopped eggs and fine herbs 
in a basin, mix this together with a small quantity 
of tartare sauce, lemon juice, pepper and salt. 
Spread one side of the eroitons with the mixture, 

' B 2 



SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D' (EUVRE. 



and place the fillets of anchovies oVer them in a 
lattice- work fashion; arrange them neatly on small 
dishes, garnish with parsley, and serve. 

ANCHOVIES AND CBATPISH TAILS IN 
SHEIiLS. 

Anchois et Queues d'Ecrevisses en CoquUles, 

Wash some small Gorgona anchovies, fillet 
them, and prepare as for anchovy salad ; pick out 
some even-sized crayfish tails, and place a fillet of 
anchovy round each tail ; arrange them in small 
shells, and garnish v?ith parsley and stuffed ohves. 



ANCHOVIES, NOBWEGIAN STYLE. 

Anchois a la NorvSgienne, 

-Prepare some fillets of Norwegian anchovies, 
trim neatly, have ready three hard-boiled eggs, 
chop up two coarsely, yolk and white separately, 
dish up in hors-d'oeuvre dishes (little glass, china, , 
or silver dishes), season with a little chopped 
tarragon, chervil, and red pepper (paprika or 
cayenne). Sprinkle with a little oil and vinegar. 
Place the anchovy fillets over the top in the shape 
of lattice-work, ornament with thin shces of 
lemon, quarters of hard-boiled egg, and parsley. 



ANCHOVY ECLAIRS. 

Eclairs a la Qorgorme. 

Inqeedients. — J pint water, IJ oz. butter, 
4 oz. flour (sifted), J oz. grated cheese, 2 whole 



GARFIELD BONNE-BOUCHES. 13 

eggs, anchovy paste, green herb or lobster butter, 
salt and cayenne. 

Mbthod. — Put the water and butter, with a 
pinch of salt, on to boil in a medium-sized stew- 
pan ; when boiling stir in the flour, and work 
vigorously with a wooden spoon over the fire till 
it becomes a smooth mixture (the paste should 
not adhere to the side or bottom of the pan when 
ready). Let cool a little, and beat in gradually 
the eggs and the grated cheese. Season to taste. 
"When cold, roll and shape into small eclairs of even 
size. Place them on a buttered baking dish, and 
bake to a light brown in a brisk oven. Allow the 
eclairs to cool, sht the sides, and insert about a 
teaspoonful of anchovy paste, previously mixed 
with a little butter or white sauce. Decorate the 
top of each with green herb butter or lobster 
butter, using a forcing bag for this purpose. 
Place the Eclairs on the ice till required, then dish 
up on httle oblong or round silver-plated dishes, 
and serve as hors-d'oeuvre or savoury. 



GABFIEIiD BOITirE-BOUCHES. 

Prepare some slices of very thin crisp toast, 
stamp them out with a round cutter, about an 
inch and a half in diameter; butter them, and 
place a layer of thin slices of roast fowl and 
alternately some very finely shred lettuce leaves 
over each. Ornament the tops vnth fillets of 
anchovies, or a^Stit sild, in the form of lattice- 
work. Dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with 
parsley, and serve. 

Instead of buttering the toast, a thin layer of 
tartare or mayonnaise sauce may be used. 



14 SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D'CEUVRE. 

HADDOCK CREAMS. 

Pains de Merluche fumee. 

Ingredients. — | haddock, 1 gill aspic jeUy, 
J pint cream, 1 tablespoonful mayonnaise, 1 gill 
tomato pulp, J oz. gelatine, tarragon and chervil, 
I oz. butter. 

Method. — Decorate a number of small dariole 
moulds (previously masked with a thin layer of 
aspic) vpith tarragon and chervil leaves. Put the 
haddock in the oven with a little butter on top, 
and work for ten rdinutes ; remove skin and bone, 
and pound the fish in a mortar (not through a sieve), 
and let cool. Melt the gelatine in the tomato 
pulp. Whip the cream till stiff, add the mayon- 
naise sauce and the remainder of the aspic jelly ; 
strain the tomato sauce, etc., into this, and stir 
gradually into the puree of haddock. Fill the 
moulds with this. Put them on the ice to set. 
Turn out on a cold dish, decorate with chopped 
aspic and small salad, and serve. 

SABDINES IN ASPIC. 

Drain 6 or 8 boneless sardines by placing them 
upon a cloth; carefully remove the skins. EoU up 
each sardine thus prepared in a thin shce of 
cooked tongue or lax, whichever is preferred. 
Place them in a saut6-pan containing a layer of 
previously set aspic jelly ; pour over sirf&cient 
half-set aspic to quite cover the sardine rolls, and 
put on the ice to set. Cut out the shapes as neatly 
as possible, and range them tastefully on a dish. 
Garnish the dish with slices of tomato, cucvmaber, 
and beetroot. 



CAVIARE. ig 



SARDINE TAKTLETS A LA BOYALE. 

Bonnet Bouches de Sardines a la Royale. 

Clean and bone some sardines, half the quantity 
of fillets of anchovies ; pound them in a mortar 
with three to four hard-boiled yolks of eggs, pass 
through a wire sieve, add a little fresh butter, a 
handful of fresh breadcrumbs, a small quantity 
of finely chopped parsley, and season with white 
pep]oer and cayenne. 

Line some small deep tartlet moulds with puff 
paste trimmings, fill up the interior with the 
above ingredients, cut some strips of paste, and 
ornament the tops in the form of lattice-work ; 
brush over with a little stiffly whisked white of 
egg. Bake in a quick oven. When cooked and 
cold, dish up on a napkin or dish paper, garnish 
with parsley, and serve. 

CAVIARE. 

This peculiar and so highly appreciated delicacy 
consists of salted roes of various large fish 
belonging to the sturgeon family. The sturgeon, 
(Acipenser sturio), the hause {Acvpenser huso), 
the sterlet and tunny fish produce most of the 
caviare imported into this country. The finest 
quality caviare is obtained from the roe of the sterlet, 
a species of sturgeon which hves in the Black Sea 
and the river Volga, in Eussia. The common stur- 
geon weigh from 3 to 6 cwt., and frequently as 
much as 9 cwt. each. The larger fish do not pro- 
duce so good a quality of caviare as the smaller 
and lighter kinds. Astrachan caviare is considered 
the best of all ; the grains are somewhat larger 
than the ordinary caviare, and when fresh should be 
of a greenish colour ; when preserved, the colour 



i6 SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D'CEUVRE. 

turns almost black. Caviare is also largely imported 
from Germany and America. The Grerman caviare 
has much smaller grains than the Russian caviare, 
and is not considered so good, but it is neverthe- 
less largely consumed, as the price is considerably 
less than that of the caviare imported from Russia. 

Caviare is a condiment which, to the gourmet, 
served on buttered toast with a squeeze of lemon, 
is a revelation. Caviare is usually eaten as a 
relish, and is considered one of the finest 
appetising table delicacies. It is served either 
plain or on toasted bread, with pepper and lemon 
juice, or with finely chopped shallots and parsley 
and lemon juice, or with vinegar and oil. 

Hygienic caviare is highly recommended to the 
invalid and epicure ahke on account of its fine 
flavour. It can be eaten and appreciated by those 
whom experience warns to be careful as to their 
digestive powers, and those who are benefited by 
cod hver oil. This caviare recommends itself 
from the fact that it contains less salt and less oil. 
than the caviare of every-day commerce. The 
absence of excessive quantities of these constituents 
renders Hygienic camare more wholesome and more 
agreeable to the palate. It therefore forms a 
welcome and suitable dish for invalids who would 
otherwise have to eschew a table delicacy of this 
kind. Hygienic caviare has the same flavour as 
ordinary caviare, but heightened by being deprived 
of some of the oil which so largely enters into its 
composition. 

MOSCOW CAVIABE TOASTS. 

Petites Croutes a la Moscovite. 
Stamp out some rounds of toast about IJ in. 



CAVIARE CANAPEES, R^MOULADE STYLE. ■ 17 

in diameter, spread them with fresh caviare, 
previously seasoned with lemon juice and finely 
chopped shallot. Place a bearded oyster in the 
centre of each. Dish up and garnish with thin 
shoes of lemon and parsley. 

SMALL CAVIABE SLICES. 

Petites Tranches de Caviar a la Tartare. 

Cut twelve thin oblong slices of brown bread, 
pare them into heart shapes about an inch and 
a half long. Butter the sHces shghtly. Mix 
two ounces of Russian caviare carefully with a 
squeeze of lemon, a teaspoonful of chopped 
shallots, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Spread 
the slices rather thickly with the camaxe, but 
do not use a knife for this purpose, as st^el or 
metal injures the flavour of it. Have readjr a 
tablespoonful of stiff mayonnaise, mix gently v?ith 
one of cold bechamel sauce, one hard-boiled egg 
yolk, previously passed through a fine wire sieve, 
chopped parsley, fennel leaves, tarragon leaves, 
and shallots, haU a teaspoonful of each, also 
haK a teaspoonful of prepared mustard, and one 
of concentrated tomato puree. Work all tiU quite 
smooth, fill in a paper comet or forcing bag, and 
ornament the caviare sHces to taste. Dish up on 
small round dishes, and stand in a cool place until 
required. 

CAVIABE CAITAFEES, BEMOULADE STYLE. 

Canapes de Caviar a la Rhnovlade. 

Cut some shoes of stale white bread, about 
half an inch thick, stamp them out in ovals, fry 



i8 SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D'CEVVRE. 

" them in clarified butter a light brown colour. 
When cool, place about a teaspoonful of rather 
stiff rSmoulade sauce on one side of each oval ; in 
the centre of each put a little caviare, sprinkle 
with chopped parsley and gherkins, and serve on 
a glass dish. 

CAVIABE BOLLS, BUSSIAN STYLE. 

Brissolettes de Caviar a la Eusse. 

Procure some very small farthing rolls, cut 
them into equal halves, scoop out the crumb, 
and place them in the screen to dry. Prepare a 
stiff mayonnaise, adding a httle aspic jelly to 
stiffen same; When quite cold mask the inside of 
the prepared rolls with the mayonnaise. In the 
centre of each put about a teaspoonful of Astraohan 
caviare, and cover over their surface with aspic 
jelly. Ornament the to{)s with thin strips of 
fillets of Eussian anchovies ; dish up, and serve 
them on a folded napkin. 

CAVIABE DABIOLES. 

Barioles de Caviar. 

Cut a rasped French dinner roll into round 
slices about half an inch in thickness, toast them 
nicely on each side, split them open like a 
muffin, and butter the inside. Spread with some 
Astrachan caviare, seasoned with finely chopped 
shallots, a Httle lemon juice and cayenne. Press 
the sHces of rounds of toast together gently, dish 
. up, and serve. This dish can be served hot or 
cold. 



FRIANDISES VE CAVIAR. 19 



PETITBS CROUTES DB CAVIAB. 

Ingbbdibnts. — Bread for croAtes,3 oz. Hygienic 
or Eussian caviare, half a lemon, 1 teaspoonful of 
shallots, a pinch of cayenne, clarified butter for 
frying, parsley for garnishing. 

Mbthod. — Cut out eight round pieces of bread, 
about an inch in diameter and half ah inch thick; 
scoop out the centre sufficiently hollow to receive 
a dessertspoonful of caviare. Mix the caviare 
carefully with a teaspoonful of chopped shallots, 
a squeeze of lemon, and a pinch of cayenne ; fry 
the crotites in hot butter a nice light colour; 
drain well on a cloth ; when cold, fill them with 
the prepared caviare. Dish up, garnish with sprigs 
of parsley, and serve. Be careful never to touch 
caviare with a knife or any metal spoon, as it 
injures the flavour. Hygienic caviare is recom- 
mended as it contains less salt and less oleaginous 
substance, which is so objectionable to epicures 
and invalids. 



FBIAD^DISEiS DE CAVIAB. 

Cut some slices of brown bread about J in. 
thick, and stamp out as many rounds as are 
needed ; lay them on a dish and sprinkle well with 
lemon juice. Brush over both sides with beaten- 
up egg-yolk and fry in clarified butter. Take up, 
drain, and let cool. Spread one side of each croAte 
-with caviare. Have ready some chopped hard- 
boiled white of egg and cover the caviare with this. 
Decorate each crotlte with strips of gherkins, rings 
of olives, and egg-yolk. Dish up and serve. 

For other Caviare JDishes see " Savouries." 



SIDE DISHES.— HORS-VCEUVRE. 



OYSTERS. 

Les Huitres, 

Oysters are considered wholesome and nourish- 
ing, especially for delicate and consumptive people. 
They are most delicious, and stand first on every 
menu as a universally liked and popular hors- 
d'oeuvre. The "natives" are the best. The 
recognised season for oysters is from the beginning 
of September until the end of April, when they 
are most plentiful and at their best. 

Oysters are opened and served in their deep 
shells with their owp liquor. They should be 
eaten with a fork. 

Thinly cut shces of brown bread and butter, 
quarters of lemon and cayenne pepper, are served 
with the oysters. 

OYSTEB DABIOLES 1 LA CABLTON. 

Darioles d'Huitres a la Carlton. 

Warm up about J.2 sauce oysters,* beard them, 
and cut them into large dice ; shred some lettuce 
leaves, mix in a basin with mayonnaise sauce and 
sufficient aspic jelly to bind; add the oysters; 
season to taste with white pepper, salt, and, chilli 
vinegar ; fill into small dariole moulds ; place them 
on the ice to get set ; turn out on a folded napkin 
on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. 

OYSTER MAYONNAISE. 

Huitres en Mayonnaise. 
Heat up 20 oysters in their own liquor; let 

_ • Oysters, when being cooked, should never boU ; they must only 
just come to boiling point. 



LOBSTER DARWLES WITH TOMATOES. ii 

stand for five minutes ; then beard them, and 
put on a cloth to drain and cool. Mix with^ 
some prepared mayonnaise sauce and crisp 
lettuce or endive leaves. Dish up neatly in a 
glass dish or small salad howl, coat the whole 
with mayonnaise, and garnish with anchovy 
fillets and hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters 
or shoes. 

LOBSTEB A LA CAB^ImE. 

Homard a la CarSme. 

Prepare a forcemeat with lobster meat, whiting, 
and egg, pounded, sifted, and seasoned. Butter 
some small plain dariole moulds, and hne them 
vdth lobster forcemeat; place in the centre of 
each a small quantity of salpicon of prawns, 
truffles, and artichoke bottoms, all cut into small 
dice, and mixed with tartare sauce. Fill up the 
moulds with lobster forcemeat, and poach them. 
Place the shapes on the ice to cool. Dish up in a 
circular row, sauce over with a stiff tartare sauce, 
and serve. 

LOBSTER DARIOLES WITH TOMATOES. 

Darioles de Homard h la Tomdte. 

Prepare salpicon, with lobster meat cut into 
dice and white fish forcemeat quenelles; season 
•with cayenne pepper and salt, add a little aspic 
jelly, and mix carefidly together. Select some 
even-sized, small, round tomatoes, cut out the 
centre gently with a tin cutter about the size of a 
shilling piece ; plunge the tomatoes, one after the 



SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D-CEUVRE. 



other, into boiling water to take off their sMns ; this 
must be done very carefully, so as not to break the 
fruit. Put the skinned tomatoes on a cloth to 
drain, place them separately into small dariole 
moulds, fill in the lobster salpicon, and cook them 
slowly with a Uttle water in a covered stewpan for 
about thirty minutes. Place them on a cloth to 
drain, and glaze them when quite cold with a well- 
reduced tomato sauce, to which some good meat 
glaze and a little aspc jelly have been added. 
Dish them up in a circular row, placing in the 
centre, in a heap, a salad of mac^doine of 
vegetables seasoned with stiff tartare sauce; 
sprinkle some lobster coral on top, garnish with 
parsley, and serve. 



BALLOTINS OP LOBSTER, REFORM ST^LE. 

Ballotins de Homard a la lUforme. 

Gut the best parts of the meat of a large lobster 
into thin slices ; mask some small plain oblong 
moulds with aspic jelly ; cover the bottoms and 
sides of the moulds with the best slices of lobster ; 
dip them in warmed aspic jelly so that they set 
firmly. Place them on the ice for a little while. 
Cut up the remainder of the lobster meat rather 
small, mix with stiff mayonnaise sauce and aspic 
jelly, season with salt and cayenne pepper ; fill up 
the moulds with this, and let them set fijmly. 
Dish the ballotins on a folded napkin, garnish 
with parsley, and serve. Salmon, prawns, or 
crayfish may be done in the same way. Some 
chopped gherkins can, if liked, be added to the 
mayonnaise sauce used for seasoning. 



APPETISERS, MAXIMILIAN STYLE. 23 

I.OBSTEB CAITAFEES. 

Homard sur CariapSs. 

Cut some slices of bread about a quarter of an 
inch thick, stamp out with a fluted round cutter 
two inches in diameter, and fry them in clarified 
butter. Spread the rounds of fried bread with 
lobster butter, place a nice piece of lobster meat 
in the centre of each, and gairnish with a row of 
capers round the lobster. When serving, sprinkle 
over with a little Krona or other pink pepper. 

CAWAPBBS OP LOBSTER, QUEEN'S STYLE. 

CanapSs de Homard a la Reine, 

Procure some very small rolls (farthing rolls), cut 
them in halves, scoop out the crumb, and fill them 
with the following preparation. Cut into small 
pieces (dice shape) some lobster meat, one or two 
hard-boiled eggs (according to the quantity of 
canapees required), a few lettuce leaves, some 
gherkins, the fillets of a few anchovies. When all 
is neatly cut, mix with some salad oil and vinegar, 
pepper and salt, and finely chopped parsley. Now 
proceed to fill in the crusts of rolls. Mask, or 
wet their surface, with a stiff mayomimse, garnish 
vdth lobster coral and pickled beetroot, the latter 
being cut into small thin strips. Dish up on 
a folded napkin. 

APPETISERS, MAXIMILIAN STYLE. 

Appitissants a la Maximilian. 

Stone some large Queen's olives; fill them with 
anchovy paste mixed with a little seasoned well- 



24 SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D'CEUVRE. 

reduced tomato pulp ; cut out some rounds of 
fried bread about one inch and a half in diameter ; 
spread some of the prepared paste thickly over 
them. Place an oUve in the centre of each 
croftton ; have ready some nfeatly trimmed fillets 
of anchovies, and twist a fillet round each ohve ; 
ornament with little sprigs of finely picked 
parsley, or coarsely chopped hard-boiled white 
of egg. Dish up on a folded table napkin, and 
serve. 

SPAiriSH APPETISERS. 

Appkissants Espagnoles. 

Procure some Spanish olives, turn them, i.e.. 
peel them carefully from the stones, or stamp out 
the stones with a small cutter; fill them with 
some anchovy paste. Bone and fillet a few 
Gorgona anchovies ; twist a thin fillet round each 
stuffed oHve. Dish them up on a glass dish and 
place a sprig of fresh parsley on the top of each 
olive, pour a little best olive oil on the dish, and 
serve. 

CBOUTES X L'ESPAGNOLE. 

Stamp out teja rounds of bread about an inch 
and a half in diameter and one-eighth of an inch 
thick, fry in butter, and drain. Stone as many 
large Spanish olives with a sharp column cutter ; 
fill with some firm tartare sauce ; place one in the 
centre of each croftton; curl an anchovy fillet 
round it ; garnish with finely chopped hard-boiled 
egg, lobster coral, and sprigs of parsley. Dish up 
on small hors-d'oeuvre dishes, and serve. 



I .^ 



PETITES MARQUISES AU THON. 25 



TUNNY FISH. 

Than marinS. 

The tunny fish in appearance slightly resembles 
the cod ; it is preserved or marinated in oil. The 
flesh is very firm, has a delicate flavour, and looks 
very much like cooked veal ; it makes a highly 
esteemed hors-d'oeuvre, but is hardly ever served 
otherwise. To serve it, cut some thin slices, 
arrange them on oblong or round glass dishes in 
rows overlapping one another. Ornament the 
sides alternately with little heaps of chopped 
capers and chopped parsley. Pour a little sweet 
oil over the dish just before sending to table. 

TUNNY PISH CANAPBES. 

Thon marinS snr CanapSs, 

Prepare some slices of stale bi'ead, cut into 
fingers, and fry in clarified butter. When drained 
and cold, butter them, and cover the pieces with 
thin shoes of preserved tunny fish, flavour with 
lemon juice and chopped tarragon and chervil. 
Dish up tastefully, and serve. 

PETITES MARQUISES AU THON. 

Ingredients. — 6 oz. puff paste or short-crust 
paste, 4 oz. thon marine (tunny fish), J gill aspic, 
made with fish stock, J gill wlupped cream, a few 
slices of cucumber and red chillies for garnish, 
seasoning. 

Method. — EoU out the paste as thinly as 
possible, stamp out some rounds and line with them 
8 or 10 very small bouche moulds ; prick the paste 
with the prongs of a fork to prevent blistering 
while baking, and fill the moulds with dry peas 

s. D. c 



25 SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D'CEVVRE. 

or raw rice. Bake them in a moderate oven till 
the paste acquires a golden brown colour. Take 
out the peas or rice, unmould, and stand the paste 
cups on a sieve to cool. Pound the tunny fish 
free from skin and bones, and rub through a fine 
sieve. Put the pur6e in a small basin, incorporate 
the aspic, stir well till it begins to set, then add the 
whipped cream and seasoning (pepper and salt). 
Put this preparation in a savoy, or forcing bag 
with a rose tube, and fill the paste cups with it. 
This must be done with taste and care. Scallop 
the edges of the cucumber slices and place them 
neatly round each, and put a star-shaped slice of 
red chilli in the centre of the cream. Dish up on 
a folded napkin or dish paper, and serve. 

PRAWNS IN SAVOURY JELLY. 

Ecremsses en Aspic. 

Line some small dariole moulds with a thin 
layer of aspic jelly. When nearly set, sprinkle 
over some chopped lobster coral and chopped 
gherkins or olives. Place two or three picked 
prawns in each mould and fill up with aspic jelly. 
Put the moulds on the ice to get firm. Prepare 
as many fried bread crotltes (round) as there are 
moulds. Mask one side of each with green herb 
butter (beurre MontpeUier). Turn out the moulds 
and place one in the centre of each croAte. Dish 
up and serve as hors-d'oeuvre or cold savoury. 

PRAWN BASKETS. 

Corheilles auai Ecremsses. 

Prepare some round pastry cases in little basket- 
shaped moulds ; bake them, unmould them, and 



CRA YFISH 27 



let cool. Put a little mixed cress in each of them, 
then some of the prawn mixture as described, in 
the foregoing recipe, and a spoonful of ravigotte 
sauce. Arrange the prawns' tails across each to 
form the handles. Decorate lightly with coral 
and chopped truffle, dish up, and serve. 

SHRIMP CBOt^TBS. 

Croutes aux Grevettes. 

Pound 1 gill of picked shrimps with 1 oz. 
butter and ^ oz. anchovy paste ; season with 
paprika or Krona pepper. Fry some rounds of 
white or brown bread in butter, drain and cool. 
Spread one side of each croAte thickly with the 
preparation. Place a whole shrimp in the centre 
of each and garnish the edges with green herb 
butter. Dish up and serve. 

SMOKED COD'S EOB CAWAPBES. 

Laitance de Gabillaud fumS sur Canapes. 

Prepare bread croltons as in the preceding' 
recipe, spread each thinly with fresh butter and a 
layer of potted cod's roe paste, dish up, and 
garnish with hard-boiled eggs and finely chopped 
parsley. 

CRAYFISH. 

Eerevisses. 

Crayfish — which must not be confounded with 
crawfish — are similar to lobsters, only much 
smaller. The flesh is most dehcate. They are 
extremely useful for side dishes, as well as for 

C2 



28 SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D-CEUVRE. 

garnishing cold and hot entries. There are 
several kinds, the best being those which are 
quite red under the claws. Prawns are often used 
in their place when crayfish cannot be obtained. 
They are boiled in water, with plenty of salt in it, 
for about ten minutes. 

To serve them in the shells, cut the ends of 
lemons so as to make them stand, stick the horns 
of crayfish or prawns into the lemons in circular 
rows, commencing at the bottom of a lemon. Fill 
up the vacant spaces with freshly .picked parsley, 
and arrange them neatly upon the dish in which 
they are served. This is called a pyramid, or 
buisse d'^crevisses. 

CBATFISH CANAFEES. 

PdtS d'Ecrevisses sur Canapls. 

Prepare some fried bread croutons, the same as 
described for anchovy canapees. Spread a layer of 
potted crayfish paste over the fingers, dish up, 
and garnish with parsley. 

CBAYPISH CEO^TES, TABTABE STYLE. 

Grovtes d'Ecrevisses a la Cardinal. 

Procure six to eight small round dinner-rolls 
(usually called farthmg rolls) ; cut these in equal 
halves, scoop out the crumb, and allow the crusts 
to dry. In the meantime prepare a mixture of 
eighteen large picked prawns, one large gherkin, 
six anchovy fillets, and the white of a hard-boiled 
egg ; mince these rather finely. Put them in a 
basin, and season with tartare sauce ; put a little 
mustard and cress at the bottom of each crust, 



CANAPEES TURBIGO FASHION. 29 

and fill up with the above preparation ; stamp out 
some thin slices of set aspic jelly, cover the surface of 
each with a slice ; fasten the heads of prawns in 
the centre of each with a little lobster butter; 
ornament the edges with lobster butter. Dish up 
on small round dishes, garnish with parsley, and 
serve. 

CBAYPISH CKOtTTES, BAVIQOTTB STYLE, 

Groutes d'Ecrevisses & la Bavigotte. 

Ingeedients. — Bread for crotites, twelve cray- 
fish tails, half a gill tartare sauce, a few tarragon 
leaves, chervil, and a few blanched spinach leaves, 
butter for frying, cayenne paper and lobster coral. 

Cut some round or square pieces of bread, half 
an inch thick and an inch and a half wide, hollow 
out the centre a little, fry them in clarified butter, 
and drain on a cloth. Chop the crayfish tails or 
some prawns finely ; season with a little tartare 
sauce. Put a httle mustard and cress at the 
bottom of each croAte, dress some of the prawn or 
crayfish parts in a pyramidal form on top ; pound 
the chervil, tarragon, and spinach leaves, pre- 
viously blanched, pass through a fine sieve, and 
mix with the tartare sauce. Mask the crofttes 
with this, dish up, garnish with small cress, and 
sprinkle with lobster coral and cayenne. 

CANAPEES TUBBIGO FASHION. 

CanapSs a la Turbigo. 

Select two dozen small crayfish tails, or prawns, 
if the former cannot be procured, a few small 
truffles, a small head of white celery, and a small 



30 SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D'CEUVRE. 

quantity of mixed pickles. Cut all these into 
small dice, season with. rSmoulade sawce, containing 
some reduced tomato pulp, sufficient to colour the 
sauce. Procure a number of very small rolls 
(farthing rolls), cut these into halves, take out the 
crumb, and fill the crusts with the above. Cover 
over each surface a thin, round piece of clear aspic 
jelly. G-arnish with capers and parsley, and dish 
them up on a folded napkin or dish paper. 

DBESSED CBABS. 

Crabes garnis. 

Choose the crabs of medium sizes and weights, 
pick out all the meat from the crabs, and remove 
the gills and apron. Mix the meat with the usual 
proportion of best salad oil and vinegar to taste, 
season with pepper and salt and a little mustard. 
When mixed, clean out the shells and fill them vvdth 
the mixture, and garnish with freshly picked parsley 
and with the small claws. Dish up on folded 
napkins, and serve. 

BONNES-BOUCHES A LA CABDINAL. 

Cut some slices of bread, about one quarter of 
an inch in thickness, stamp out the required 
number of rounds, about an inch in diameter, fry 
these in clarified butter and let cool; spread a 
Kttle lobster paste over each, and place a stoned 
Spanish olive in the centre. Curl a fillet of 
anchovies round it; fill the centre of the olives 
vdth lobster coral, and garnish the croutons 
with hard-boiled white of egg ; dish up on a folded 
napkin, and serve. 



SNAILS AS HORS-D'CEUVRE. 31 

CBO^TES 1 LA HONGBOISE. 

Ingbbdibnts. — 2 oz. preserved lax, 3 hard- 
boiled eggs, grated Gruyfere cheese, ij oz. fresh 
butter, 2 gherkins, toasted bread, parsley, paprika 
pepper. 

Method. — Wipe the slices of lax, peel the 
eggs, and cut nine round slices about \ in. 
thick ; carefully remove the yolks, put in a mortar, 
and pound with the lax until smooth ; add the 
cheese"and an ounce of butter, season with a good 
pinch of paprika pepper, and rub through a fine 
sieve. Stamp out some rounds of freshly-made 
toast, a little larger than the slices of egg, butter 
one side of each round, and spread a layer of the 
above preparation on the buttered side of the 
toast. Place a slice of white of egg in the centre 
of each round of toast, put the remainder of the 
puree in a forcing-bag with a rose tube, fill up the , 
centre of the rounds with this, decorate the sides 
and top with the same. Garnish tastefully with 
small leaves of gherkins and sprigs of parsley, 
dish up, and serve. 

SNAIIiS AS HOBS-D'CBUVBE. 

The edible snails are found in the south of 
France, Italy, and some parts of the south of 
England, where they were introduced some hundred 
years ago from the Continent. They have thin 
shells of a whitish or pale grey colour, with four 
dark stripes. 

Snails are not very much" thought of as yet on 

this side of the Channel; although on the 

Continent a basket of dressed snails is considered 

as acceptable a present as a brace of game in this 

vcountry. 



32 SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D'CEUVRE. 

Eating snails is said to be a remarkably good 
thing for consumption. The ancient Eomans 
greatly esteemed snails as an article of food ; they 
-kept special places for fattening them, and it is 
said fed them on meal, wine, and other dainties. 
Great care should be taken by those who consume 
snails, and by those who collect them, to let them 
lie for three or four days before they are cooked ; 
for snaUs which have had the opportunity of 
feeding on poisonous grass are likely to poison the 
consumers, which is, however, avoided if they are 
kept a few days without food. 

SNAILS WITH PINE HERB BUTTER. 

Escargots aux finet Herbes. 

Boil the snails for a quarter of an hour in water, 
then take them out of their shell, wash them 
several times, boil them up again, and drain them. 
Fry them in butter with a few finely chopped 
shallots till light brown, add a little reduced 
piquante sauce, and refill them in the shells 
(previously cleaned) without any sauce. Cover the 
tops with parsley butter, containing a little lemon 
juice and some finely chopped shallots. Serve on 
a folded napkin on a dish. 

SALMON CROtTTES A LA TABTARB. 

Three slices of stale bread J in. thick, tablespoonful 
capers, salt and cayenne, lobster coral, f lb. cold 
cooked salmon, 3 French gherkins, tartare sauce, 
3 Spanish oUves, parsley for garnish. 

Cut the bread into one and a haH inch squares 
or oblongs, scoop out slightly some of the centre 
of the bread slices, place them in a frying basket 



LAX J? L'HUILE AUX CONCOMBRES. 33 

and fry a golden colour, then drain them. Free 
the fish ^om skin and bone, and flake it rather 
small. Put this in a basin, season with a pinch 
of salt and a Uttle cayenne pepper, mix with this 
the capers and two gherkins, cut into shreds, 
season with a little of the tartare sauce. Fill the 
hollow parts of the croMes with this, pile up 
rather high, and cover with a thick layer of tartare 
sauce (this must be made very stiff). Stone the 
olives, and cut each into rings ; place one of these 
in the centre of each croSte, and put a little 
lobster coral in the middle of the olive. Garnish 
vsrith fancifully cut shces of gherkins, dish up, add 
a sprig of parsley here and there, and serve cold. 

LAX 1 L'HUILE AUX CONCOMBRES. 

One tin of lax (smoked salmon preserved in oil), 
1 tablespoonful sweet oil, pepper and salt, 3 or 4 
slices brown bread, butter, 1 teaspoonful chopped 
parsley, 1 cucumber, 1 dessertspoonful Orleans 
vinegar, 1 handful of mustard and cress and 
watercress. 

Cut the cucumber into one and a half inch pieces 
as near as possible of the same size. Cut the rind 
so as to form stripes of green and white (crinkled) . 
Scoop out sonie of the centre, and round off the 
bottom of each so as to give them the appearance 
of cups. Chop the pulp scooped out of the centre, 
and put it in a basin, with the oil, vinegar, and 
chopped parsley. Stamp out some rounds of 
bread with a 2-in. cutter, butter them on one 
side, cover the buttered side vnth thin slices of pre- 
served lax ; cut some of the lax into fine strips, 
and mix with the cucumber pulp ; season with 
pepper and salt. Put the cucumber cups on the 



34 SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D'CEUVRE. 

prepared rounds of bread, and fill the cavities with 
the above mixture. Eange them neatly on a 
roimd dish in the shape of a crown. Season the 
small cress, etc., and put it in the centre of the 
dish. 

SOUSED SAIiMON. 

Saumon marmS. 

Place the piece of boiled salmon that is to be 
soused or pickled into a deep dish ; boil enough 
vinegar to cover the fish, add two small bay leaves, 
four cloves, six long peppercorns, ten juniper 
berries, a lump of sugar and a little salt. Pour 
the boiling vinegar over the fish, and serve when 
quite cold. 

CANAFEES OF SMOKED SAIiMOI7. 

CanapSs de SatimonfumS, 

Cut and fry sHces of bread as directed for 
anchovy canapees, butter the pieces when cold, and 
cover them with thin sUces of smoked salmon. 



PIiEUEETTES DE SAUMON. 

INGEEDIBNTS. — ^About 12 oz. cold Salmon, 1 gill 
mayonnaise sauce, J pint stiff aspic jelly, 2 sheets 
French leaf gelatine, 1 truffle, J gill bechamel sauce, 
a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil. 

Method. — ^Have ready 6 or 8 small flat oval 
moulds (fancy pattern). Free the sahnon from 
skin and bones, cut it into slices, and stamp out as 
many ovals as there are moulds, similar in shape 
but some smaller. Melt the aspic, and coat 
moulds thinly with it ; decorate them with strips of 



GOOSE-LIVER BONNES-BOUCHES. 35 

truffle and tarragon and chervil leaves. Stir the 
mayonnaise sauce to the remainder of aspic while 
it is stiU liquid. Coat the moulds with this and 
put the remainder in a mortar with the trimmings 
of salmon ; pound till smooth, season to taste ; 
dissolve the two leaves of gelatine in the bechamel 
sauce, and add this to the pounded salmon. Pass 
it through a fine sieve. Coat each of the oval 
pieces of salmon with this mixture, and set it in the 
moulds ; fill up vsdth the puree, smooth over with 
a knife, and place the moulds on the ice to set. 
"When ready for serving immerse the moulds in 
tepid water, wipe with a cloth, turn out and dish 
up, garnish to taste, and serve. 

FLEURETTES DE FOIE-GRAS. 

Use a terrine of foie-gras p4te in place of the 
salmon, and proceed in the same manner as above 
described ; the truffle can be omitted, as the foie- 
gras p4te usually contains several nice pieces of 
truffle, some of which can be utihsed for decorating 
the mouldy. 

GOOSE-LIVER BONNES-BOUCHES. 

Bonnes- Botwhes de Foie-gras. 

Fill some small tin pastry hoops or flanc rings 
(about an inch and a half in diameter and half an 
inchhigh) with goodraised pie paste ; fill with rice ; 
bake weU. When baked, turn out the rice. Cut 
some potted foie-gras pMe into small dice. Season 
with a little aspic jelly and supreme sauce ; three 
parts fiU the baked crust with this ; when set, 
cover the top with clear aspic jelly. Dish up in 
a folded napkin, garnish with chopped aspic jelly 
and parsley, and serve. 



36 SIDE DISHES.— HOnS-D'CEUVRE. 

GOOSE-LIVEB DABIOLES. 

Darioles de Foie-gras. 

Put a little aspic jelly in some small plain 
dariole moulds, so that it sets round the sides and 
bottom ; fill up with potted foie-gras cut into con- 
venient slices, place on the ice for an hour, and 
turn out on glass dishes. Ornament with chopped 
beetroot, hard-boiled white of egg, and slices of 
cucumber. 

SOUSED FISH. 

Poissons marinSs. 

Boiled fish of any kind left from a previous 
day's meal can be soused and be used as a hors- 
d'oeuvre or breakfast dish. 

Place the neatest piece.s of fish into a deep dish, 
boil up a little of the fish stock in which the fish 
has been boiled with an equal quantity of vinegar, 
a few leaves of green fennel, a bay leaf, two cloves, 
a dozen peppercorns, a slice or two of lemon, -and 
salt. Pour this over the fish, turn same over 
gently from time to time, so that the seasoning 
gets thoroughly saturated. 

DUTCH HEBRINGS. 

Harengs de Hollande. 

These herrings are imported in small tubs, 
already salted and prepared ; they should be 
washed and soaked in milk before they are used. 

Cut off the heads and tails, split them down the 
centre, divide each half into slices, about half an 
inch thick. Place them in an oblong dish, 



PAUPIETTES DE HARENGS. 37 

ornament with slices of hard-boiled egg, pour 
over vinegar sauce, and serve. 

The sauce referred to here is called Vinaigrette, 
and is prepared as follows : 

Mix four tablespoonfuls pf salad oil, two of 
tarragon or ravigotte vinegar, chopped parsley, 
chopped shallots, pepper and salt. Some chopped 
gherkins may be added, if desired ; it will improve 
the flavour and add to its piquancy. 

EEBBIKG FILLETS A LA DUBOIS. 

Take some preserved filets de hareng (herring 
fillets), place them on a cloth to drain; peel and 
slice two ripe but firm tomatoes and lay them on 
the bottom of a glass or other hors-d'oeuvre dish ; 
arrange the herring fillets upon these ; chop finely 
some French olives (stoned) , white and yolk of hard- 
boiled egg, and place these tastefully in alternate 
rows upon the fillets. Garnish with tiny sprigs of 
cress, and serve. 

PAUPIETTES DE HABENGS. 

Four or five salt herrings (Dutch herrings), 
3 filleted anchovies, a pinch of cayenne, 2 hard- 
boiled eggs, 1 lemon, IJ oz. butter, parsley, 
beetroot and gherkins for garnish. 

Steep theherrings in cold water for a few hours ; 
fillet them, removing the white skin and all bones ; 
cut each lengthways in two and pare neatly. Put 
the trimmings of the fillet into a mortar, together 
with the anchovies, and pound tUl smooth ; add the 
yolks of the hard-boiled eggs and the butter, 
season to taste (no salt), and mix thoroughly. 
Eub this thi'ough a fine sieve with a layer of this 



38 SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D'CEUVRE 

pur^e ; roll up neatly. Dip the ends into finely 
chopped hard-boiled white of eggs. Dish up,' 
sprinkle over some lemon juice, garnish with 
thinly cut slices of lemon, gherkin, beetroot and 
parsley. Serve cold. 

OLIVES AS HOBS-D'(EUVBB. 

Olives are considered next to oysters and caviare 
the most appetising morsel to be consumed before 
meals. The olive is most extensively consumed 
as an article of food in the south of France, where 
the word indigestion in itself has scarcely any 
meaning; in fact, "indigestion" is rarely ever 
heard of, which ought to be sufficient proof that 
olives are uncommonly wholesome, as they assist 
to spur the digestive organs whenever they are 
incUned to be out of order. 

The first acquaintance of an olive is undoubtedly 
not an agreeable taste to some people, but the 
palate soon gets over the apparently disagreeable 
flavour, and in time one will take to them with 
considerable relish. 

Spanish olives are considered the most palatable, 
as they are perfectly sweet and free from any 
strong flavour. They are served a,s. hors-d'oeuvre, 
and at times as dessert. On both occasions they are 
dished up in small glass dishes, with a little of 
their own liquor, and are eaten with the fingers ; a 
fork should never be applied to them. 

STUFFED OLIVES, MARGOT STYLE, 

OUves farcies a la Margot. 

Ingredients. — Stone 12 to 18 large Spanish 
olives ; prepare a mixture of 4 hard-boiled yolks of 



OLIVES A L'ALSACIENNE. 39 

eggs, 1 tablespoonful of anchovy paste, and 1 oz. 
butter, and season with Erona pepper. 

Stuff the olives with this. Have ready as many 
rounds of brown bread as ohves, spread one side of 
each with Montpellier butter, and place a stuffed 
olive in the centre of each. Garnish round the 
edge of each croAte with the remainder of the 
stuffing used for the olives (a forcing bag with a 
rose tube should be used for this purpose). Dish 
up, garnish with small salad, i.e., mustard and 
cress, and serve. 

OLIVES A LA KEINE. 

Ingredients. — 10 or 12 large Spanish (Queens) 
olives, 3 or 4 sardines (boneless), 3 oz. fresh 
butter, a teaspoonful anchovy paste, J lemon, a 
few French gherkins (pickled), 1 hard-boiled egg, 
10 or 12 small bread croltes. 

Method. — CarefuUy remove the stones from the 
oHves, pound the sardines in a mortar, add the 
butter, anchovy paste, the yolk of the egg, and a 
few drops of lemon juice ; season with a good pinch 
of paprika pepper. Mix thoroughly and rub through 
a fine wire sieve. Put this mixture into a forcing 
bag with a plain tube or pipe and fill the ohves. 
Have ready the fried bread crotttes, force out a 
Uttle of the mixture on each of the croltes and 
place on it the olives ; decorate the base of the 
croltes with the above mixture. Dish up on little 
glass dishes, garnish with white of egg (hard- 
boiled) and gherkins all shredded as finely as 
possible, and serve. 

OLIVES A L'ALSACIENNE. 

Ingredients.— 8 or 10 Spanish olives, J small 
terrine foie-gras, 4 hard-boiled eggs, IJ gill aspic 



40 SIDE DISHES— HORS-D-CEUVRE 

jelly, chopped ham, paprika pepper, toasted bread, 
J oz. butter, a few spngs of chervil and tarragon. 
Method. — Stone the olives, cut the hard- 
boiled eggs in two crossways, take out the yolks, 
cut the whites top and bottom to the desired size 
(about half an inch high). Pound the foie-gras 
and two of the yolks, season and rub through a 
fine sieve ; fill the olives with this by means of a 
forcing bag and pipe. Mask some olive-shaped 
moulds with aspic; decorate with tarragon and 
chervil leaves ; stand an olive in each of the moulds, 
fill up vpith aspic, andlet set. Mix the remainder of 
farce with the aspic left over ; stamp out some rounds 
of freshly toasted bread (cold), spread with butter, 
cover the buttered side with chopped ham. Mask 
the egg whites with the farce above mentioned. 
Turn out the olives from the moulds, put the 
whites of eggs in a round of bread, place each 
olive in the centre of these, garnish with sprigs 
of parsley and a pinch of paprika here and there, 
dish up, and serve. 

PETITS PAIflBBS A LA JABDINlliBE. 

Ingredients. — \ lb. short paste, ^ pint mac6- 
doine of vegetables, oil and vinegar, J lemon, 
1 ladleful of aspic jelly, 1 small truffle, pepper 
and salt. 

Method. — Line eight small tartlet or patty 
pans with the paste, shape some twisted strips, 
and fasten each end crossways with some egg-yolk 
and flour mixed to the sides of the pans to the paste 
(this will form the handles). Fill the interior of 
the patty pans v?ith raw rice, bake in a quick oven 
for about ten minutes, turn out the rice, and set 
them to cool. Have ready some cooked mac^doine 



CELERY A LA CRMME. 41 



of vegetables, drain well on a cloth, season with a 
little oil, vinegar, and pepper and salt, moisten with 
a tablespoonful of aspic, fill the baked crusts with 
the mixture, mask the surface of each with 
aspic. Ornament with fancy shapes of lemon 
rind and truffles; garnish with sprigs of fresh 
parsley, dish up, and serve. 

Trv&e trimmings can be mixed with the 
macddoine if desired. 

BETTERAVE A L' ORIENT ALE. 

Ingbedients. — 1 small beetroot, 1 hard-boiled 
egg, 12 anchovy fillets, 1 dessertspoonful capers, 
1 dessertspoonful gherkins, 2 chives, 1 dessert- 
spoonful anchovy paste, a little vinegar, brown 
bread for croAtes. 

Method. — Cut the beetroot into slices about 
one-eighth of an inch thick, stamp out some 
small rounds with a fancy cutter about one inch 
in diameter, put a layer of anchovy fillets on each. 
Prepare the following mixture : one dessertspoon- 
ful of capers, one gherkin, two chives, all chopped 
finely and mixed with a tablespoonful of anchovy 
paste, and a few drops of chilh vinegar ; spread over 
the rounds carefully. Cut the egg into thin slices, 
put one slice on each of the rounds, mix a little 
cayenne with salt, and sprinkle over the surface. 
Dish up, garnish with anchovy fillets and parsley. 

CELERT 1. IiA CRIJME. 

Use the white part of celery and shred it finely, 
mix it with a small quantity of shredded lettuce, 
season with salt and pepper and mayonnaise 
dressing, and serve in little glass dishes. 

S. D, r> 



42 SIDE DISHES.—HORS-D'CEUVRE. 



CELEEIAC A LA CBEME. 

Slice some cooked celeriac and cut into julienne 
strips, season with mayonnaise cream, salt and 
pepper; add a tablespoonful of finely shredded 
truffles to each celeriac root. Dish up on small 
hors-d'oeuvre plates and serve. 

SUBPBISE TOMATOES. 

Tomates en Surprise. 

Procure some small tomato moulds, mask the 
interior -with reduced tomato sauce and aspic jelly. 
Stand the moulds on the ice to cool. Prepare a 
cream vdth pounded cooked chicken, aspic jelly, 
and whipped cream ; fill the moulds with this, close 
two halves together, taking care that the marks of 
the moulds are opposite to each other. Place 
them on the ice for three-quarters of an hour, then 
turn out and dish up on a folded napkLn. 

TOMATOES A LA LUCULLUS. 

Take six or eight tomatoes, scoop out the centre, 
season with salt and pepper, fill in with a little 
mayonnaise sauce and a pickled walnut in each. 
Chop up some hard-boiled yolks of eggs, put this 
m a basin, cover it with aspic jelly, stir it well, and 
set in a half inch sheet. Dish up the tomatoes, 
and ornament the dish with small dice of egg 

3iSpiC. 

STUFFED EGGS A LA RUSSE. 

(Eufs farcis a la Russe. 

Take six hard-boiled eggs, remove the shells 
cut them crossways ; scoop out the yolks, fill in 



PICKLED EGGS. 43 



the vacant spaces with caviare, cover over with a 
httle mayonnaise sauce with which the yolks of 
the eggs have been incorporated. Procure a few 
even-sized tomatoes, cut them into slices. Season 
with chopped parsley, oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. 
Serve the eggs on slices of tomatoes. Dish up, 
and garnish with parsley. 

EGGS, CARNOT STYLE. 

Les (Eufs a la Carnot. 

Trim neatly the edges of as many artichoke 
bottoms as are required, mask them over with some 
dissolved meat glaze, into which a little aspic 
jelly has been introduced. Place a dessertspoonful 
of chicken pur6e in the centre of each. Have 
ready some hard-boiled eggs ; cut these crossways 
into halves, put half an egg in each fond, point 
downwards, place a star of sliced truffle in the 
centre of the yolks, mask all over with a thin 
layer of aspic jelly. "When set, ornament round 
each egg with some stiff tartare sauce, which is 
done best by means of a paper cornet. Keep in a 
cool place until wanted. 

PICEIiED EGGS. 

(Eufs marines. 

Unfortunately this pickle is not much known, or 
else it would be more largely used, as it makes an 
excellent hors-d'oeuvre, and is a splendid relish 
when eaten with cold meat, etc. 

Take some hard-boiled eggs, remove their shells, 
place them in a jar; boil up some strong malt 
vinegar sufficient to cover them. With the vinegar 

D2 



44 SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D-CEUV RE. 

boil the usual pickling spices, cloves, bay-leaves, 
peppercorns, whole spice, etc. Pour the vinegar 
over the eggs, tie the jar down tight with a bladder, 
and keep in a cool place for forty-eight hours. 

EGGS A LA MARGOT. 

(Eufs a la Margot. 

Ingbbdients.— 3 hard-boiled eggs, 3 Spanish 
olives, 4 oz. tongue, 2 anchovy fillets, a few capers 
and 2 gherkins, a few drops of salad oil, lemon 
juice, toasted buttered bread, parsley. 

Method.— Cut the eggs in halves across, take 
out the yolks, and rub through a sieve. Cut off a 
tiny piece of the tips of the whites to make them 
stand even. Chop half the tongue rather finely, 
and mix with haK the yolks of eggs. Stamp out 
six nice rounds of buttered toast, about the size of 
the cut side of the eggs ; sprinkle over thickly 
with tongue and yolks. Cut the remainder of 
tongue and gherkins, olives, and anchovies into 
fine shreds; mingle gently with a few drops of 
oil and lemon juice. Add a little chopped parsley 
and the capers, also a pinch of white or red pepper, 
whichever is preferred. Fill up the cups of white 
of eggs. Pile up rather high but loosely. Stand 
each on a round piece of prepared toast. Dish up, 
garnish, and serve as cold savoury or breakfast 
dish. 

PLOVER'S EGGS, PRINCESS STYLE. 

(Eufs de Pluvier a la Princesse. 

Ingeedients.— For paste: J lb. flour i lb 
butter 1 yolk of egg, 8 raw plover's eggs', 6 oz' 
cooked chicken or rabbit meat, f ^1 cream" 



CROOtES a la LOUISVILLE. 45 

1 truffle, about an ounce of panade, seasoning, 
breadcrumbs, grated cheese. 

Method. — Prepare a short-crust paste with the 
flour, butter, egg yolk, and a few drops of water. 
EoU out and line 8 or 10 small tartlet moulds, 
prick the paste with a fork, fill up with dried peas, 
and bake in a brisk oven a golden colour. Take 
up, remove the peas, and put the crusts on a sieve 
to cool. Pound the chicken or rabbit meat till 
smooth. Add the cream and an ounce of panade. 
Season to taste and rub through a sieve. Poach 
lightly the plover's eggs in slightly salted water. 
Line each paste crust with a little of the prepared 
puree, trim the eggs, and put one in each crust. 
Cover completely with meat pur6e, so as to give 
each a crown-shaped appearance. Place a star 
of truffle on -top of each. Sprinkle sides with a 
mixture of fresh breadcrumbs and grated cheese. 
"Set in a hot oven for six minutes, and serve on a 
hot dish with folded napkin. 

CROt^TES A LA LOUISVILLE. 

Ingredients. — 8 or 10 rounds of fried bread 
half an inch thick and about IJ in. in diameter 
(hollowed out in centre before frying), 8 or 10 
large Spanish olives, 3 tablespoonfuls stiff tartare 
sauce, I oz. anchovy paste, 2 chicken livers boiled, 
1 hard-boiled egg, and 10 fillets of anchovies. 

Method. — Pound the chicken liver and add the 
yolk of a hard-boiled egg and the anchovy paste ; 
mix well, rub through a sieve, and put into a basin 
with the tartare sauce. Mix the whole carefully. 
Spread over the hollow sides of the croltes of fried 
bread with this. Stone the olives, and fill each 
with the above preparation; place one in the 



46 SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D'CEUVRE. 

centre of each crolite, ctirl an anchovjr fillet round 
it, garnish with finely chopped hard-boiled white of 
egg, and sprigs of parsley or lobster coral if handy. 
Dish up on small glass dishes, and serve. 

CBO^TES A IjA METBOFOIiE. 

Ingbbdibnts. — 3 slices of stale bread J in. 
thick, f lb. cold cooked sahuon, 3 French gherkins, 
1 tablespoonful capers, tartare sauce, salt and 
cayenne, 3 Spanish oUves, lobster coral and parsley 
for garnish. 

Method. — Cut the bread into IJ in. squares or 
oblongs, scoop out slightly some of the centre of 
the bread slices, place them in a frying basket and 
fry a golden colour, then drain them. Free the 
fish from skin and bone and flake it rather 
smaU; put this in a basin, season with a 
pinch of salt and a Httle cayenne pepper; Tm'-y 
with this the capers and two gherkms, cut into 
shreds ; season with a little of the tartare sauce. 
FiU the hoUow parts of the crotltes with this, pile 
up rather high, and cover with a thick layer of 
tartare sauce (this must be made very stiff) . Stone 
the ohves and cut each into rings; place one of 
these in the centre of each croAte, and put a little 
lobster coral in the middle of the oHve. Garnish 
with fancifully cut shces of gherkin, dish up, add 
a sprig of parsley here and there, and serve. 

TOMATO CUTLETS. 

Cotdettes Mignom a la Tomate. 

Ingredients. — 1 giU tomato, first incorporated 
with aspic, 1 gill aspic jelly, quarter of a pound 



PETITES DARIOLES AGRASIENNE. 47 

chicken or game forcemeat, one spoonful of cream, 
one yolk of egg (one hard-boiled egg), seasoning, 
parsley for garnish, one truffle (small). 

Method. — Mask eight small cutlet moulds with 
aspic, work the forcemeat to a creamy substance, 
incorporate one yolk of egg, and some aspic to 
make it set. Ornament the bottom of the cutlets 
with hard-boiled whites of egg and truffle ; mask 
some lines to imitate bones and fat of cutlet ; line 
with the tomato sauce to imitate the fleshy part ; 
fill up with the forcemeat previously prepared ; 
cover surface of each with tomato sauce. Place 
them on the ice for about half an hour, turn out 
carefully, dish up on folded napkins or glass, 
garnish with parsley, and serve. 



PETITES DARIOLES AGRASIENNE. 

A small terrine foie-gras (No. 14 size), 1 table- 
spoonful Agra relish, 2 tablespoonfuls tomato 
sauce, 2 leaves French gelatine, 1 hard-boiled egg, 
1 truffle, J giU double cream, 1 gill aspic jelly. 

Line some httle dariole moulds with a thin 
layer of aspic ; decorate prettily v?ith hard-boiled 
white of egg, truffle, etc. Mask again with a thin 
coating of aspic, and set the moulds on the ice. 
Eemove the lard from the foie-gras, rub the latter 
through a sieve, and mix with the cream and Agra 
relish ; heat up over the fire, without letting the 
mixture boil. Dissolve the gelatine in the tomato 
sauce and strain into the above ; add a pinch of 
salt, if needed, and stir the mixture until almost 
cold, then fill the decorated moulds. "When set, 
turn out on a dish, and garnish with chopped 
aspic. 



48 SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D'CEUVRE. 

HAM-BOITCHEES, WITH CBBAM. 

BoucMs de Jambon a la Crime. 

Chop haK a pound of lean cooked ham; with 
this mix gently a quarter of a pint of whipped 
cream, season with white pepper and cayenne to 
taste; fill some small puff-paste cases with the 
mixture, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over 
each, cover them, and serve on dish covered with 
a folded napkin or lace-paper. 

HAM CANAFEES. 

Jambon sur CanapSs. 

Prepare some fried slices of bread, as directed 
for anchovy canapees, cover the pieces -with thin 
slices of cooked ham, and dish them up and 
garnish suitably. 

TONGUE CANAPEES. 

Langue de Boeuf sur Ca/napSs, 

Prepared as directed in the preceding dish, 
using boiled smoked ox-tongue instead of ham. 

MINCED BEEF WITH SAVOURY JELLY. 

Bceuf hachS a I' Aspic. 

Mince some cold beef with a small quantity of 
red pickled cabbage or beetroot ; season this vnth 
salt, pepper, oil and viaegar; chop some hard- 
boiled white of egg, add it to the mince, moisten 
with a small quantity of liquid aspic jelly. Fill 
some small dariole moulds with the mixture. 



CAR&ME BISCUITS. 49 

"When set, turn out on to a dish. Garnish the 
dish with stuffed olives, rings of hard-boiled eggs, 
sUces of aspic jelly, and serve. 

BEEF CAITAPEES. 
OanapSs de Bceuf, 

Cut and fry some rounds of bread, butter the 
rounds, and sprinkle with a little pepper and salt ; 
cover with neatly cut thin slices of lean cold roast 
beef, and brush over with a thin coating of good 
meat glaze. When cold, dish up, garnish with 
scraped horseradish and parsley, and serve. 

SMOKED HAMBURG BEEF. 

Bauffurrd a la Hamhourgoise. 

Grate some lean Hambnrg beef, and arrange it 
heaped up on a glass dish ; clean and drain small 
cress, and garnish round the dish. Lemon pickle 
cut into shoes and put in a glass dish is invariably 
served with hung or Hamburg beef. 

CABl^ME BISCUIO'S. 

iNaKEDiENTS. — 12 thin water biscuits, 1 table- 
spoonful lobster paste, 1 oz. fresh butter, 1 dessert- 
spoonful lemon juice, pistachio nuts and truffles 
to garnish, paprika and salt to season. 

Method. — Put the lobster paste and butter in a 
mortar and pound till smooth, add the lemon juice, 
and season to taste. Spread the mixture on one 
side of the biscuits, and garnish each with finely 
chopped pistachios and truffles ; these must be 
placed on separately so as to produce a pleasing 



50 SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D'CEUVRE. 

effect. Dish up, and garnish with parsley or 
small cress. 

bAtons a la pabma. 

Ingredients. — | lb. puff paste or trimmings, 
2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 yolks of hard- 
boiled eggs, J jar of Senn's tomato mustard, a 
pinch of paprika pepper, parsley for garnish, a 
little whipped cream, and the white of an egg. 

Method. — Eoll out the paste into an oblong 
about a quarter of an inch thick ; sprinkle the 
board with grated cheese instead of flour. Cut it 
into even-sized biitons about 3 in. long and 1 in. 
wide ; place them on a wetted baking sheet ; 
brush over with white of egg and sprinkle with 
grated cheese. Bake in a moderate oven to a 
golden colour, and let them cool. Spread each 
b^ton with a thick layer of purde prepared with 
the yolks of eggs previously rubbed through a 
sieve, the tomato mustard, an ounce of grated 
cheese, and the paprika seasoning. Put the re- 
mainder of the pur^e in a forcing bag and force 
out little rose shapes on to the batons; garnish 
also with little dots of whipped cream forced 
through a cornet or forcing bag. Dish up, garnish 
with sprigs of parsley, and serve. 



Sandwiches. 



There is nothing more relishing than a really 
good sandwich. Unfortunately, at some of the 
buffets, at restaurants and railway stations, sand- 
wiches do not bear the best of reputation. Some 
people have the notion that so long as there is 
" meat between the slices of bread that is all they 
need trouble about. Tasty and temptingly pre- 
pared sandwiches are not more expensive, and 
only require a little more care and attention than 
coarsely cut and dry-looking sandwiches, which 
^ve the guest a shudder to look at. 

Daintily prepared sandwiches do not cost more 
than the coarsely prepared and dry-looking ones. 
What is needed (more than additional outlay in 
materials) is a little more care and attention in 
the making. 

The bread, the butter, and especially the 
seasoning, require the most careful treatment 
for the preparation of sandwiches, the various 
kinds of which I will now endeavour to describe. 
Everybody knows, more or less, how to prepare 
sandwiches. Those made vyith new bread are 
considered superior; it is, however, best to use one 
day old tin loaves, as the appearance of the sand- 
wiches is then much neater than those cut from 
new bread. They are composed of certain in- 

51 



52 SANDWICHES. 



gredients introduced between two slices of buttered 
bread. The slices should not be cut thicker than 
about an eighth of an inch. The butter, which 
should, when possible, be creamed, must be 
spread on evenly and thinly. Whatever the meat 
used for sandwiches is, let it be neatly cut, thin, 
free from skin or gristle, and seasoned with salt, 
pepper, mustard, etc. The crust of the bread 
should be pared off before the slices are cut. 

Sandwiches are usually dished up on folded 
napkins, and are dressed in circles, so that one 
overlaps the other. It is well to lay a damp 
napkin over the sandwiches if they are not im- 
mediately wanted, in order to keep them moist. 

Among those in ordinary use are sandwiches 
made of ham, beef, tongue, mutton, veal, chicken, 
game, various kinds of potted meat, fish pastes, 
sausages, pickles, hard-boiled eggs, salad, etc. 

SUPEBIOB SANDWICH BUTTEB. 

Weigh half a pound of butter and work it in a 
basin with a clean and dry wooden spoon until 
soft, then add by degrees a gill of whipped cream, 
sufficient salt and mustard to taste, and place it in 
a cool place until required. 

This butter is considered a great improvement 
for buttering the bread for sandwiches, as it is 
more convenient for spreading, and the sandwiches 
eat far better than those made with ordinary 
butter. This butter will keep from two to three 
weeks if kept on the ice, or in a very cool place. 

SAVOUBY SANDWICH BUTTEB. 
This is made by creaming or kneading fresh 
butter and mixing with it either one of the fol- 



TOMATO SANDWICHES. 53 



lowing ingredients (proportion being one teaspoon- 
ful to every six omices of butter) : grated horse- 
radish, chopped parsley, curry paste or powder, 
green herb puree, anchovy paste, bloater paste, 
Krona or paprika pepper. These will be found 
decidedly good for sandwiches. 

HAM SANDWICHES. 

Sandwiches de Jambon. 

Cut some slices of stale bread, about an eighth 
of an inch thick, butter them thinly, and cover 
half the slices with thin shoes of ham; spread a 
httle mixed mustard over the ham, and place a 
slice of bread and butter over each. Press them 
together firmly, and cut them into conveniently 
sized neat pieces. The shape of sandwiches are 
cut according to taste and fancy, either oblong, 
square, triangle, round, or oval. Dish them up 
neatly on a folded napkin, and garnish with sprigs 
of parsley. 

BEEF OB TONGUE SANDWICHES. 

These are prepared in exactly the same way as 
ham sandwiches, with the exception that beef 
or cooked ox-tongue is used in place of ham. 

TOMATO SANDWICHES. 

Sandwiches aux Tomates. 

Very appetising and nutritious sandwiches can 
be made from concentrated tomatoes (tomato 
paste). Cut two slices of thin bread and butter, 
and spread a little of the tomato paste over one of 
the pieces, with a little mustard, pepper and salt ; 



54 SANDWICHES. 



press the other slice of bread and butter upon it, 
remove crust, cut into neat pieces, and serve as 
above. Additional flavour can be given by mixing 
a little meat extract with the tomato pulp. 

Note. — Slices of skinned ripe tomatoes intro- 
duced instead of tomato paste or pulp make also 
very nice sandwiches. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Sandwiches de Volaille. 

Cut the flesh of some cooked fowl (roast or 
boiled) into thin slices, lay these between slices of 
buttered bread, trim, press, and cut into eight 
parts; dish up in a circle. Place some finely 
shredded lettuce leaves and small cress in the 
centre, and serve. It is best to season the meat 
with pepper and salt before it is made up into 
sandwiches. 

GAME SANDWICHES. 

Sandwiches de Qihier, 

Cut the meat of any kind of cooked game into 
neat slices, and prepare the sandwiches as above 
described. 

Another way is to pound the meat finely and 
mix with it a sufficiency of butter and seasoning 
to make it into a paste, which is then spread 
between the buttered slices of bread. 

CLUB SANDWICHES. 

Place thinly-cut sliced chicken fillets, grilled 
ham and lettuce leaves between slices of buttered 
and seasoned toast ; trim, dish up, and serve. 



HADDOCK AND ANCHOVY SANDWICHES. 55 

ADELAIDE SANDWICHES. 

Gut some neat slices from the breast of a cooked 
chicken and some thin sUces of ham, butter the 
required thin slices of bread, spread over with a thin 
layer of curry or mulligatawny paste, lay half the 
slices of bread with chicken and ham, and make up 
into sandwiches in the usual way. 

HAMBURG SANDWICHES. 

Cut some thin slices of German smoked ham 
sausages, butter some thin slices of white or brown 
bread, spread with a little Diisseldorf or French 
mustard, and a thin layer of sliced gherkins. Lay 
the slices of sausage between two slices of bread, 
and proceed in the usual way. 

ANCHOVY SANDWICHES, NELSON STYLE. 

Scmdwiches d'Anchois a la Nelson. 

Scrape and bone ten Gorgona anchovies, pound 
them in a mortar with ^ oz. of fresh butter, 
the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, a teaspoonful 
of curry paste, a little cayenne, and two table- 
spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. 

Cut some round slices of bread, about two inches 
in diameter and an eighth of an inch in thick- 
ness ; butter one side of them, spread the mixture 
over each, press the two covered sides together, 
trim into shape, and serve on a folded napkin. 
Garnish with parsley and small radishes. 

HADDOCK AND ANCHOVY SANDWICHES. 

Boil some smoked haddock, drain and remove 
the meat from the bones, then pound it in a mortar 



56 SANDWICHES. 

with one-third of its quantity of butter and one- 
fourth of anchovy paste ; add pepper and salt to 
taste. Warm up in a stewpan. Stir from time 
to time until cold, and use as required for making 
into sandwiches. 

SHBIMF SAITDWICHES. 

Sandwiches a la PdtS de Crevettes. 

Pound in a mortar a pint of picked shrimps ; add 
to it 1 oz. fresh butter and 1 tablespoonful anchovy 
essence. Season vdth a little lemon juice, pepper 
and salt, and mix well. 

Cut some thin slices of brown bread and butter, 
spread the prepared paste on them, cover with a 
second slice ; press them together, cut them into 
desired shapes ; dish up on a napkin ; garnish with 
parsley, and serve. 

CAVIABE SANDWICHES. 

Samdwiches au Caviar Russe. 

Cut some thin slices of white or brown bread, 
butter them, and spread a thin caviare over the 
buttered sides. Sprinkle with a little lemon juice 
and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Cover each with 
a second slice of bread and butter, press them lightly 
together, and cut the slices into neat pieces. 
Serve nicely arranged on a dish covered vdth a 
napkin or dish paper. 

TOASTED CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Split large cracker biscuits or shredded wheat 
biscuits in two, butter them well, sprinkle the 
buttered sides thickly with grated cheese. Season 



GRUYkRE CHEESE SANDWICHES. 57 

with Krona or cayenne pepper, and brown in the 
oven for a few minutes. Dish up, and serve hot. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Sandwiches au Fromage, 

Make a mixture of cheese (grated) and butter ; 
a small quantity of anchovy paste ; blend well and 
season to taste. Have ready some thin slices of 
bread and butter, spread the mixture over a slice, 
put another shoe of bread and butter on the top> 
press well, cut the slices into convenient shapes, 
dish up, and serve. 

CHEESE CBEAM SANDWICHES. 

Denises de Fromage a la Crhne, 

Take 3 tablespoonfuls grated cheese, 2 large table- 
spoonfuls double cream, a little crisp celery or a 
few shelled and peeled walnuts, bread and butter, 
cayenne. 

Cut some thin slices of bread, butter them, 
sHghtly shred either celery or walnuts very finely, 
and mix this with the cheese and cream. Spread 
the buttered sides of the bread slices vnth this, 
place them together like sandwiches, cut them 
into pretty shapes — squares, oblongs, crescents or 
stars — dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and 
serve. 

GBUYliBE CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Sandwiches cm Fromage de Gruyere. 

Prepare some thin slices of bread and butter, 
spread the buttered sides with a little French 
mustard, sprinkle thickly with grated Gruyfere 
s. D. E 



58 SANDWICHES. 



cheese, season with white pepper, salt, and a pinch 
of paprika pepper. Press the two covered sides 
of slices together, cut them into oblongs, dish up 
neatly, and garnish with parsley. 

BOIiIiEB SANDWICHES. 

Tartines BoMes. 

Six ounces cooked chicken meat, 2 oz. ham or 
tongue, 2 oz. Dorset butter, cayenne, 1 loaf of 
brown bread, 2 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise (at least 
one day old), 1 oz. fresh butter for buttering the 
bread shces, parsley. 

Pound the chicken meat and ham or tongue in 
a mortar till quite smooth ; then add the Dorset 
butter, mix thoroughly, season with a pinch of 
cayenne pepper, and rub through a fine sieve. Cut 
some very thin sHces of brown bread (slightly 
buttered), and trim off the crust. Mix the pur^e 
above prepared with one or two tablespoonfuls of 
mayonnaise sauce, and spread the buttered side of 
the bread with this. Roll up firmly each slice and 
press lightly for twenty minutes ; then roll up lightly 
in a clean cloth and place them on the ice for one or 
two hours. To serve, untie the rolls and dish them 
up neatly on small silver dishes covered with a lace 
paper, and garnish v?ith parsley. The rolls may. be 
cut in halves if liked. Any. other kind of meat 
may be used in place of chicken. Potted game or 
foie-gras makes a nice change. 

FOIE-GBAS SANDWICHES. 

Sandwiches de Foie-gras. 

Turn out a tin or terrine of foie-gras (goose- 
liver), remove the fat, cut into thin slices, taking 



SANDWICHES A LA WELLINGTON. 59 

care not to break the slices. Prepare thin shoes of 
bread and butter ; lay the foie-gras between two 
slices, trim, press them, and stamp out into neatly 
shaped slices. Dish up tastefully and garnish. 

EGG SANDWICHES. 

Sandwiches aux CEufs. 

Boil three fresh eggs for ten minutes ; when 
cold, remove the shells and pound the yolk and 
white together in a mortar, with an ounce of fresh 
butter ; when quite smooth add salt, pepper, and 
a little cayenne to taste. Spread the mixture thus 
on thin cut bread and butter, press well, trim them, 
cut them into neat pieces, and serve on a napkin, 
garnished with parsley. 

Note. — Slices of hard-boiled eggs introduced 
between slices of bread and butter also make nice 
egg sandwiches. 

NUT SANDWICHES. 

Chop finely-peeled English walnuts, moisten 
with mayonnaise dressing, season with a 
pinch of Krona pepper, and make up into sand- 
wiches. 

SANDWICHES 1 LA WELLINGTON. 

Take half a pound cold beef, mutton, or veal, 
free from bone, skin and gristle, six turned olives, 
and a small handful of capers. Bone four 
anchovies, and pass all twice through a mincing 
machine. Add two yolks of hard-boiled eggs 
mixed with an ounce of butter ; season with salt 
and pepper. When sufficiently mixed pass the 

E a 



6o SANDWICHES. 



preparation through a wire sieve. Spread this 
puree on thin shoes of buttered brown bread, 
cover each with another, press together, and stamp 
them out with a round fancy cutter. Chop finely 
the hard-boiled whites of the two eggs ; sprinkle over 
the surface of the sandwiches with it. Dish them 
up in a circular row ; put some seasoned endive, or 
any other crisp salad, in the centre ; ornament with 
a few prawns and freshly picked parsley. 

VICTORIA SANDWICHES. 

SandwicJies d la Victoria, 

Have ready some hard-boiled eggs cut into thin 
slices, some well washed and drained small cress, 
also some filleted Gorgona anchovies. Cut some 
slices of brown bread about an eighth of an 
inch in thickness and butter them. Place between 
each two slices alternate layers of hard-boiled eggs, 
anchovy fillets, and small cress. Press them 
together, cut into oblongs or squares, dish up on 
a folded napkin or dish paper, and garnish with 
parsley. 

FRESH COB'S ROE SANDWICHES. 

Sandwiches aux Laitances de Cabillaud, 

Put half an ounce of fresh butter into a stew- 
pan, add two finely chopped shallots, or a small 
onion, and fry until light brown. Have ready 
four to six ounces of freshly boiled cod's roe and 
liver ; cut into small slices, and put them into the 
stewpan, adding some chopped chives and parsley, 
pepper, salt, and a little chilli vinegar to taste. Stir 
for a few minutes; then pound all in a mortar 



SARDINE AND TOMATO SANDWICHES. 6i 

until fine. Finally, pass it through a wire sieve, 
and let it get cool. Spread the paste between 
thin shces of brown bread and butter. A little 
French anchovy mustard spread between will 
improve the flavour. When pressed, trim and 
cut them into squares or oblongs ; dish up neatly, 
and garnish. 

NEW YORK SANDWICHES. 

SandwicJies a V Am&ricaine. 

Put three yolks of eggs into a basin, stir with a 
wooden spoon, add a Httle salt, a dessertspoonful of 
tarragon vinegar, a teaspoonfuj of anchovy essence, 
and about six tablespoonfuls of best salad oil. 
Add the oil and vinegar only in small quantities, 
and stir until it becomes quite thick. Beard, trim, 
and chop up finely about two dozen oysters; 
season with pepper, salt, cayenne, lemon juice, aiad 
work same gradually into the above sauce. 

Cut some round French rolls, a day old, into 
thin slices, butter them; spread the mixture on 
one slice, cover with another, press them, and dish 
up. The above quantity of oysters should be 
sufficient to make from twenty-four to thirty 
small sandwiches. 



SABDINE AND TOMATO SANDWICHES. 

Sandwiches aux Sarditws et Tomates, 

Bone a dozen sardines ; pound them in a mortar 
with an ounce of fresh butter ; pass through a 
fine sieve, season with cayenne and white pepper, 
and salt. Skin a few firm ripe tomatoes, cut them 
into thin shces, squeeze a little lemon juice over 



62 SANDWICHES. 

each ; season with pepper, salt, and a little castor 
sugar. Have ready some thin slices of white or 
brown bread and butter, spread each over with the 
prepared paste, and place the slices of tomatoes 
between each two; press together lightly, trim, 
and cut into squares or oblongs. Dish up, and 
garnish with parsley or small salad. 

PBIlfCESS SANDWICHES. 

Sandwic/ies d la Princesse. 

Pound in a mortar some cooked chicken meat 
free from skin, bone and gristle ; when fine, add 
three yolks of hard-boiled eggs, some grated cheese, 
a little French mustard, tarragon vinegar, and salad 
oil, just enough to moisterj, and season with salt 
and pepper. Work into a smooth paste, and pass 
through a wire sieve. Cut some thin slices of 
white bread, butter them, spread the paste between 
these, close them, and press the slices well to- 
gether. Stamp out with a plain oval cutter, about 
two inches long, dish up en couronne on a folded 
napkin or dish paper, on an oblong or round dish. 
Garnish with coarsely chopped white of egg, 
chopped cooked ox-tongue, and freshly picked 
parsley, and serve. 

ST. JAMES'S SANDWICHES. 

Tartines a la Saint Jacqiies. 

Prepare some puff paste, or use some feuilletage 
trimmings. Eoll it out about one-third of an inch 
thick, put a few small pieces of butter, about as 
big as a haricot bean, over the^ surface, half an inch 
apart ; sprinkle with flour. Fold up and let it rest 



LUCULLUS SANDWICHES (SPECIAL DISH). 63 

for about ten minutes, then roll out again, dredge 
it well with grated cheese, roll it up, and fold in 
three ; now roll it out to about three-quarters of 
an inch in thickness. Cut the paste into oblongs, 
two and a half inches long and one and a quarter 
inch wide. Place them on baking sheets, let them' 
stand a few minutes, brush over the surface with 
egg, and then bake them in a hot oven. When 
done, split them nearly in half, remove a little of 
the soft paste, and fill each with the following pre- 
paration : Take some cold game, fowl, tongue, and 
ham, chop finely, and mix with a Uttle butter; whip 
a small quantity of cream or the white of an egg ; 
mix it with the meat. Season with lemon juice, 
paprika or -BTrowa pepper, and salt. The sandwiches 
must be filled while they are warm, and when filled 
should be placed in the oven again for a few 
minutes, in order to set the mixture and to seal 
the sandwiches. These may be served hot or cold. 

GROUSE SANDWICHES. 

Sandwiches de Qibier, 

Pound in a mortar some meat of cooked grouse 
or any other bird (roasted or boiled), previously 
freed from bones and skin ; add a little ground mace, 
curry paste and chutney, in small proportions, also 
pepper and salt to taste, and work it into a smooth 
paste. Spread between thinly cut slices of bread 
and butter. Trim and press them together, and 
cut them into oblongs or other shapes. 

LUCULLUS SANDWICHES (SPECIAL DISH). 

Denises a la ImcuUus, 

Remove the fillets from a capon or large fowl, 
beat them flat, and place them into some sandwich 



64 SANDWICHES. 

moulds, and put on a buttered baking sheet. Brush 
the top with some white of egg, cover with a thin 
layer of slices of tongue, moisten with white of 
egg, and lay another fillet on top. Cover the 
moulds over with buttered paper, and cook them 
in the oven till quite done. "When done, press 
each sandwich and place them in the cool. Remove 
and clean the moulds, lino the bottom of each with 
aspic jelly, lay a sandwich in the centre, and fill up 
with aspic. Put them on the ice to set. Turn out 
on a silver dish, garnish tastefully, and serve. 

CHESHIBE MEAT SANDWICHES. 

Sandvdches au Fromage et Viande a I'Anglaise, 

Take equal quantities of fresh butter, grated 
Cheshire cheese, a little mustard, and work into a 
smooth paste. Spread some thinly cut slices of 
sandwich bread with this. Lay on it thin slices 
of any kind of cold meat, cover with another slice 
of bread and butter, press, cut into shapesj dish up, 
and serve. 

ALEXANDRA SANDWICHES. 

Cut the meat off some cold roast game and mince 
it ; to this add some cooked tongue, ham and truffles, 
cut into very small slices ; mix all with a little hot 
salmi or other rich brown sauce containing a small 
quantity of meat glaze and gelatine ; season with 
pepper and salt. Place this preparation in a square 
mould, and set it on the ice to cool. Easp some 
small French rolls, cut them into slices about one- 
eighth of an inch in thickness and butter them. 
Lay a thin shce of the above preparation between 
the bread and butter, press and trim, dish up, and 
serve with lemon or other suitable pickle. 



SALMON SANDWICHES. 65 



GLADSTONE SANDWICHES. 

Prepare some very thin slices of toasted bread, 
butter them, and place between each two alternate 
layers of thinly cut slices of cold pheasant, or 
partridge, finely shredded celery, and remoulade 
sauce. Press them and cut into shapes. Dish up, 
garnish, and serve. 

SPORTSMAN SANDWICHES. 

SandwicJies d la CJiasseur. 

Cut some sHces of white bread, about a quarter 
of an inch in thickness ; toast them lightly on 
both sides, spHt open and butter them ; lay between 
them some very thin sHces of roast game ; spread a 
little tartare sauce, with which a little French 
mustard has been mixed, over the meat; press 
them together. Pack them in waterproof butter 
paper, so as to keep them moist ; wash and drain 
a httle endive and small cress, wrap up in butter 
paper, and pack it with the sandwiches. 

Note. — ^Almost any kind of meat can be made 
up into sandwiches in this style. 

SALMON SANDWICHES. 

Sandtciches de Saumon, 

Cut some thin slices of white or brown bread 
and butter them ; place a thin layer of boiled cold 
salmon on the buttered side of the bread. Spread 
over with a Kttle stiff tartare sauce, also a layer of 
finely shredded lettuce; cover with a second slice of 
bread, and press. Cut into squares or oblongs. 
Dish up, and garnish tastefully. 

Note. — ^Potted salmon, or sahnon paste, may be 



66 SANDWICHES. 



used in place of cold salmon, but the latter makes 
by far a more tasty sandwich. 

SMOKED SALMON SANDWICHES. 

Sandwiches au Saumon fumS, 

Cut some slices of bread about an eighth of an 
inch in thickness, stamp them out with a round or 
oval cutter; butter these slightly, spread a little 
anchovy paste on the butter, and lay thin slices 
of smoked salmon between two of them. Press 
them together, trim neatly, and dish up on a napkin 
or dish paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. 

OYSTER SANDWICHES. 

Sandwiches aux Hultres. 

Select a few large oysters, beat them up in their 
own juice, remove the beards, pound them in a 
mortar with a little fresh butter and lemon juice, 
and season v/ith cayenne pepper and salt. Spread 
the paste between thinly cut slices of brown bread 
and butter; press, trim, and cut into desired 
shapes. 

GHERKIN AND EGG SANDWICHES. 

Saiidwiehes aux (Eufs et Cornichons. 

Boil three eggs for fifteen minutes ; remove the 
shells ; when cold, pound the yolks in a mortar 
with a httle fresh butter ; season with salt and 
Krona or cayenne pepper ; chop finely the white of 
eggs and four gherkins, and mix all together into a 
paste. Cut some thin slices of bread and butter. 



MARGUERITE SANDWICHES. 67 

spread the paste between two slices, divide them 
into small oblongs or squares, dish up oh a folded 
napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve. 

EPICUREAIf SANDWICHES. 

Denises a VJEpicurienne, 

Ingredients. — IJ oz. fresh butter, 2 table- 
spoonfuls mayonnaise, 4 hard-boiled yolks of eggs, 
1 teaspoonful mustard, 3 boned anchovies, 1 table- 
spoonful piccalilli, a sprig of tarragon, thin slices 
of bread. 

Method. — Cream the butter in the mortar, add 
the egg yolks and anchovies, pound till smooth; 
moisten with the mayonnaise ; chop the piccalilli 
and tarragon very finely and add to the above ; mix 
thoroughly, adding the mustard and a little more 
seasoning if needed. Spread one side of the slice 
of bread with this ; press them together in the 
usual way. Gut into crescents, fingers, or other 
fanciful shapes, dish up, and garnish to taste. 

MAHGTJERITE SANDWICHES. 

Tartines a la Marguerite. 

Ingredients. — J gill mayonnaise, J gill aspic, 
1 sheet French leaf gelatine, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 
watercress or parsley for garnish, thin slices of 
bread. 

Method. — Melt the aspic jelly, dissolve in it the 
gelatine, and strain. Stir this whilst still liquid 
gradually into the mayonnaise, which should be 
nicely seasoned. Chop finely the whites of the hard- 
boiled eggs, and rub the yolks through a wire sieve. 
Stamp out some rounds of bread about one-eighth of 



68 SANDWICHES. 



an inch thick. Mask one side of each round with the 
prepared mayonnaise just before it sets. Season 
the whites of egg with a little vinegar or lemon 
juice. Airange these smartly in a ring on the 
masked rounds of bread, leaving the centre spaces 
to be filled with the yolks. Dish up, garnish with 
sprigs of cress or parsley, and serve. 



OLIVETTE SANDWICHES. 

Inghbdients. — 4 chicken livers, 1 small shallot, 
^ oz. butter, 6 large stoned Spanish olives, salt, 
pepper, mayonnaise sauce, thin slices of bread and 
butter. 

Method. — Clean the livers ; peel and chop the 
shallot, fry in the butter a golden colour; then add 
the liver (previously cut into slices), season with 
salt and pepper, and cook over a quick fire for about 
five minutes ; pound in a mortar vdth the olives, 
and rub through a sieve. Moisten with a little 
mayonnaise sauce and put between thin slices of 
buttered bread. Cut into conveniently sized fancy 
shapes, dish up on small glass dishes, and serve. 



SICILT SANDWICHES. 

Tartimes a la Sicilienne. 

Drain 6 or 8 sardines, remove the skin and bones, 
put them in a mortar with 6 hard-boiled yolks of 
eggs, 1^ oz. fresh butter, and pound till smooth; 
season with 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice, J tea- 
spoonful paprika pepper, and a dash of grated 
nutmeg; mix well and rub through a fine sieve. 
Spread the paste between slices of buttered brown 



NORWEGIAN SANDWICHES. 69 



or white bread. Cut out some half-moon, crescent, 
or finger shapes, dish up, garnish with mustard and 
cress and thin slices of lemon. 



SANDWICHES .A LA CHBSTEBPIELD. 

Cut some thin slices of white stale bread, spread 
these over one side with a thin layer of mustard 
butter ; lay upon this some thin slices of preserved 
mango or other chutney ; on top of this spread a 
layer of foie-gras and chicken pur^e ; to make this, 
pound equal quantities of cold chicken breast 
and foie-gras, season with mayonnaise, and rub 
through a fine sieve. Cover the slices thus 
prepared with a second shoe of buttered bread, 
pare them neatly and cut into small shapes, press 
closely together, and dress them on a glass or 
silver dish on a folded napkin. 



NOBWEGIAN SANDWICHES. 

Place the slices of preserved lax on a cloth to be 
well drained from its oil. Cut two thin shces of 
bread from a tin loaf (sandwich loaf), butter them 
lightly ; lay on one of the slices of bread enough 
lax to well cover the buttered side, place the other 
piece of bread upon this, and press together lightly. 
Have ready a mixture of hard-boiled yolks of eggs, 
rubbed through a sieve, and mixed with half its 
quantity of fresh butter; season with a Uttle 
mustard, pepper, and salt. Spread the surface 
of the sandwich with this. Stamp out some 
crescent or oval shapes by means of a sharp 
cutter, and continue to prepare as many sand- 
wiches as are required in this way. Mix the 



70 SANDWICHES. 



remainder of egg-yolk butter with a little lobster 
coral, place it in a forcing bag and force out a roll 
shape in the centre of each sandwich. Dish up, 
and decorate with small sprigs of parsley. 



ASPARAGUS SANDWICHES. 

Ingbbdients. — J pint asparagus points (cooked), 
J gill mayonnaise sauce, J gill aspic, J gill whipped 
cream, salt, pepper, cayenne, bread and butter. 

Method.— In the first instance make sure that 
the asparagus points, i.e. green part of the stalk, 
are thoroughly cooked in salted water, containing 
a small piece of lump sugar. Drain and rub 
them through a wire sieve. Put the pur^e in a 
basin to cool, then stir in gradually the mayonnaise 
sauce and the aspic jelly — the latter must be Hquid, 
but on no account warm ; add the cream as the 
mixture begins to set. Season to taste. Cut some 
thin shces of bread, butter them slightly, and spread 
some of the prepared pur^e on each slice, then 
place them together as for ordinary sandwiches, 
and cut into rounds, oblongs or squares. Arrange 
them on a dish or plate, fill up the centre with 
crisp salad, and, if liked, some shoes of hard-boiled 
eggs. 

SALAD SANDWICHES. 

Prepare some shredded endive or lettuce, water- 
cress and mustard and cress; mix lightly with 
mayonnaise sauce, lay thinly between some thin 
shces of bread and butter, press the slices well 
together, cut them into neat shapes, and serve. 



CHASSEUR SANDWICHES. 71 



PRINCE GEORGE SANDWICHES. 

Mince finely some cold game, mix it with a little 
stiff salmi sauce, a chopped truffle, and four chopped 
mushrooms ; incorporate sufficient dissolved meat 
glaze to form a smooth paste. Cut some large 
milk rolls into slices an eighth of an inch thick ; 
butter these hghtly ; spread over half the slices 
with a layer of the minced game, covering the other 
halves with the remaining slices ; press, trim a 
little, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with 
sprigs of watercress, and serve. 



MILAN SANDWICHES. 

Prepare some thin shces of slightly toasted and 
buttered bread ; spread one side with a layer of stiff 
tartare sauce ; lay upon this some slices of cooked 
game and some fimely shredded celery. Place two 
together, press and trim neatly, cut into desired 
shapes, and dish up in a circle. Garnish the dish 
with aspic jelly, cut into dice, and small salad. 



CHASSEUR SANDWICHES. 

Pound in a mortar four ounces of cooked ham, 
four ounces of cold pheasant or partridge, free from 
skin and bone. "Wlien smooth add two ounces of 
butter and one dessertspoonful of " Lazenby's 
Sauce." Season with Krona pepper and rub 
through a fine sieve. Spread this between slices 
of buttered bread with a layer of thin slices of 
tomatoes. Trim the sandwiches and cut them 
into neat shapes. 



BREAKFAST DISHES 

AST) 

AFTEE DINNER SAYOURIES. 



Savoury Dishes of Fish. 



FISH FRITTERS. 

Beignets de Poisaon. 

Eemove the skin and bones from any kind of 
white cold fish ; put the picked pieces of fish in a 
basin. To each half-pound of fish add 1 oz. of 
butter and 2 oz. breadcrumbs, season with pepper, 
salt, grated nutmeg and chopped lemon rind; 
moisten with a well-beaten egg. Mix all together, 
and shape into neat pieces, dip in egg, roll in bread- 
crumbs and grated cheese, place in a wire basket 
and fry a golden colour in hot fat, take up, drain, 
and dish up. Garnish with fried parsley. 

SMOKED FISH FRITTERS. 
Bdgnets de Poiaaon fumS. 

Fillet some smoked fish, such as bloater, haddock, 
salmon, or kippered herring ; cut them into small 
pieces, season with pepper and cayenne. Dip each 



SALMON AU GRATtM. 73 

piece into some prepared frying batter, fry in hot 
fat until crisp and of nice colour, drain well on a 
cloth, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with 
fried parsley, and serve. 



FISH EEDGEBEE. 

Eedgere de Poisson. 

Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, add 3 oz. of 
boiled rice, about 6 oz. of flaked white cold fish, 
and 2 hard-boUed eggs finely chopped. Season 
with salt, pepper, and a little cayenne, moisten 
with a little maltre d'hotel sauce, stir over the fire 
until thoroughly hot, dress on small squares of 
buttered toast on a hot dish, sprinkle over some 
coarsely chopped hard-boiled yolks of eggs and 
finely chopped parsley, garnish with shreds of 
hard-boiled white of egg, and serve. 



SALMON AIT GBATIW. 

Saumon au Qratin. 

Free the remains of cooked salmon, whilst warm, 
carefully from the bones and skin. Break the fish 
into flakes or small pieces, season with pepper and 
a little cayenne, moisten with some bechamel 
sauce, mix with a little grated Parmesan cheese 
and breadcrumbs, and arrange neatly on a buttered 
gratin dish. Sprinkle the surface vsdth grated 
Parmesan cheese and fine breadcrumbs, place a 
few small bits of butter on the top, bake in a hot 
oven until Mght brown, and serve on the same dish. 

S. D. F 



74 SAVOURt DISHES OF PlSH 

SALMON FBITTEBS. 

Beiynets de Savmon. 

Boil half a pint of water in a small stewpan, and 
add an ounce of butter. When the latter is dissolved 
add a tablespoonful of grated cheese, and work in 
about an ounce of sifted flour. Stir well over the fire 
until the paste loosens from the sides, then add 
one by one three eggs, and a pinch of salt. Flake 
some cooked salmon, season with salt and pepper, 
shape into small balls about the size of walnuts, 
dip these in the prepared batter, fry slowly in hot 
fat or lard, until of a light brown colour. Drain, 
dish up, and serve. 

DEVILLED SALMON, SMOKED. 

SaumonfmnS a la Diable. 

Put some wholemeal or water biscuits into 
salad oil to soak for a few minutes ; take up, dust 
with salt, cayenne, and black pepper. Toast the 
biscuits on both sides, and place upon the biscuits 
some thinly cut slices of smoked salmon ; cover 
these with a thin layer of devilled paste or butter; 
place them in a hot oven for a few minutes. Dish 
up, and serve as hot as possible. 

LOBSTER AU GBATIN. 

Homard au Oratim. 

Spht a freshly boiled lobster into halves, take 
out the fish carefully, so as not to break the shells, 
break the claws, and take out the meat. Mince up 
the fish, put it in a stewpan with a piece of butter, 
moisten with a yolk of egg and white sauce, season 



DEVILLED LAX IN CRUSTS. 75 

with salt, pepper, and cayenne ; stir qver the fire 
for a few minutes. Fill the shells with the mixture, 
sprinkle the top with breadcrumbSj brush over 
with oiled butter,- bake in a hot oven until brown, 
dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with fresh or 
fried parsley, and serve. 

SCOLLOPED LOBSTER. 

CoquUles de Homard. 

Chop up the meat of a large lobster, put it into 
a stewpan with a little white sauce, a small piece 
of butter, and one ounce of anchovy paste ; season 
with salt, pepper, nutmeg, cayenne and lemon 
juice; stir over the fire for a few minutes, mix 
with two yolks of eggs, fill some scollop shells with 
this, sprinkle with fried breadcrumbs and oiled 
butter, brown with a salamander or in the oven, 
dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with crisped 
parsley, and serve. 

DEVILLED LAX IN CBUSTS. 

Croutes de Lax a la Diable. 

Out six very small French rolls in halves, scoop 
out the crumb, place them in the oven to get crisp. 
Have ready a large tin of lax, divide carefully into 
flakes, put it into a stewpan ,with two pats of 
butter, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one of 
chopped shallots (previously fried), a pinch of 
cayenne, and one teaspoonful of curry powder ; 
allow it to get thoroughly hot ; fill the bread crusts, 
glaze over each with some dissolved meat extract, 
place a few strips of lax over each in lattice- 
work fashion, and serve hot. 

P' 2 '. ■ 



76 SAVOURY DISHES OF FtSH. 

DEVILLED SHRIMPS IN CRUSTS, 

Croutes de Crevettes a la Diable. 

Proceed the same way as the foregoing recipe, 
and substitute the lax with as many picked 
shrimps as are required to fill the crusts ; add some 
flaked salmon or other fish to make up the 
quantity needed. Beserve one large shrimp for 
placing in the centre of each crotlte, dish up, and 
garnish with parsley. 

NoTE.^ — Halves or quarters of shredded wheat 
biscuits used instead of French rolls make a very 
nice basis for this and other savoury dishes. 

DEVILLED CRAB. 

, Orabe aux mufs h la Diable. 

Ingeedients. — 1 large crab (boiled), 1 large 
tablespoonful cream, 1 ditto of tartare sauce, 
1 hard-boiled egg, IJ oz. butter, a few drops lemon 
juice, salt, pepper, cayenne, breadcrumbs, parsley 
for garnish. 

Method. — Eemove the meat from the shells 
and claws ; clean the shell and butter the inside 
portion. Shred the meat as finely as possible, 
mix it with the cream, tartare sauce, one table- 
spoonful of breadcrumbs, the yolk of a hard-boiled 
egg (rubbed through a sieve), and an ounce of 
butter (melted). Season with salt, pepper, lemon 
juice, and a good pinch of cayenne. When all is 
thoroughly mixed, put it back into the shell, 
sprinkle with breadcrumbs and a few small bits 
of butter, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. 
Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. 



SAVOURY CRAB WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 77 

CURRIED PRAWNS. 

Eerevisses «■ I'Orientale, 

Skin about thirty prawns, fry a small sliced 
onion in two ounces of butter, stir in one ounce of 
■flour and one dessertspoonful of curry powder, 
moisten with, half a pint of milk, and let it boil for 
ten minutes ; then add the prawns and the juice 
of half a lemon ; boil gently for another ten minutes. 
Dish up in the centre of a border of boiled rice. 

CAN APEES OF CRAB, CURRIED. 

CanapSs de CraBe a I'Indienne. 

Eemove the white meat and bed from the shell 
qi a crab,^ound it in a mortar with a piece of 
butter about the size of a walnut. Season with 
salt, pepper, lemon juice, nutmeg, mustard, and 
cayenne ; moisten with a little tarragon vinegar. 
Add a small handful of fried breadcrumbs. Have 
ready some small rounds of fried bread, scooped 
out in the centre to take the stuffing. Put a table- 
spoonful of it in the centre of each. Mask the top 
with a thick curry sauce, sprinkle over with bread- 
crumbs, bake for a few minutes, dish up, and serve. 

SAVOURY CRAB WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Bagout de Crabe a la Tomate. 

Break up a boiled crab, separate all the meat 
from the shell and claws. Put the meat into a 
stewpan with a handful of soft breadcnmibs, four 
tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce, the juice of half a 
lemon, and a little finely chopped lemon rind, 
season with salt and pepper, add a wineglassful of 
chablis or sherry. Let all simmer over the fire, 



78 SAVOURY DISHES OF FISH. 

whilst stirring, for ten minutes ; add a small piece 
of fresh butter, bring once more to the boil, then 
turn out on a deep dish ; garnish the dish with 
fried bread crotitons and rings of lemon, and serve. 

SAVOURY HADDOCK ON TOAST. 

- Savoxireua' He MerlucJie fumSe. 

Eemove the skin and bones from a large boiled 
dried haddock ; pound the flesh in a mortar, and mix 
with it two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and salt, 
and three yolks of eggs. Shape the mixture into 
small balls, and fry them in hot fat, drain, and 
serve on small squares of toasted or fried bread. 
Dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. 

HADDOCK FRITTERS. 

Beignets de MerlucJie fiimSe. 

Eemove the skin and bones from a kippered 
haddock, cut it into pieces about an inch long, dip 
them in rather thick beignet or frying-batter ; fry 
in boiling lard or fat, not too hot, as the fritters 
will require quite fifteen minutes to cook. When 
done, drain on a cloth, season with salt and a little 
cayenne, and serve very hot. 

FILLETS OP BLOATERS ON TOAST. 

Filets de Harengs fumSs sur Croutes. 

Skin, split and bone four nice bloaters ; cut into 
neat fillets, brush over with oiled butter, and broil 
over a quick fire. Have ready some freshly made 
toast, butter it well, and sprinkle with grated 



SARDINE CANAPEES. 79 

Parmesan cheese ; cut into neat strips, and place 
one fillet on each. Bake for a few minutes in a 
hot oven, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. 

SARDINES WITH POACHED EGGS. 

Sardines muv (JEnfs poches a I'Allemande. 

Cut some slices of bread about one-third of an 
inch thick ; stamp out into even-siz,ed~ oval shapes. 
Beat up an egg with a httle milk, and dip the 
bread slices therein ; fry them in butter a delicate 
brown. Arrange the slices on a dish, to form a 
border, as explained below. Chop the yolks of 
four hard-boiled eggs, put them in a stewpan with 
a small piece of butter, add some chopped parsley, 
beetroot, tarragon, and the juice of half a lemon, 
also a dessertspoonful of prepared mustard, and 
one of chopped capers. Stir over the fire for a few 
minutes ; thicken with a small quantity of fresh 
breadcrumbs. Mask some freshly poached eggs 
with this, and place them in the centre of the dish. 
Ornament the tops with fillets of sardines. Spread 
one-half of the rounds of fried bread with the 
remainder of the mixture, and the other half with 
some sardine paste ; lay them round the dish, so 
that one slice rests on the edge of the other, thus 
forming the border ; season with cayenne'. Place 
the dish in the oven for a few minutes to get 
thoroughly hot, and serve quickly. 

SARDINE CANAPEES. 

Canapes de Sardines. 

Cut some slices of bread into finger shapes, and 
fry them in butter to a nice yellow colour. Bone 



8o SAVOURY DISHES OF FISH. 

twenty-four sardines, pound half the quantity in a 
mortar, with an ounce -of butter and two yolks of 
eggs ; season with pepper, mustard, chopped chives, 
parsley, and tarragon ; spread the mixture over the 
fried bread. Lay one of the remaining sardines 
on each finger, place in the oven for a few minutes, 
dish up,, garnish with crayfish tails, slices of 
gherkins and pickled beetroot, and serve. 

GRILLED SARDINES IN PAPER CASES. 

Sardines griUes en Papilottes. 

Drain and wipe twelve large sardines ; dip them 
carefully in oiled butter ; sprinkle with a little salt 
and cayenne, and roll in a mixture of chopped 
mushrooms and parsley. "Wrap each in a piece of 
thin buttered paper, twist the ends neatly, place 
them on a baking sheet in the oven until hot ; 
dress on fingers of toasted bread, in the papers ; 
garnish with parsley, and serve. 

TOASTED SARDINES WITH HAM. 

Sardines au Javibon. 

Prepare a dozen large sardines, as in fore- 
going recipe ; dip them m oiled butter, roll in a 
mixture composed of finely chopped cooked ham, 
breadcrumbs, and grated Parmesan cheese; lay 
the sardines on slices of buttered toast, seasoij 
with a little cayenne ; put them on the grill or in 
a hot oven for ten minutes, dish up, garnish with 
parsley, and serve. 

SARDINES 1 LA PROVEN9ALE. 

Cut eight slices of bread into neat finger shapes, 
fry them in clarified butter and drain them. Clean 



Eclairs of sardines. si 

eight sardines, put one on each crolite ; dish up on 
a round dish, in the form of lattice-work ; place 
the dish in the . oven for a few minutes to get 
thoroughly hot. Have ready a sauce made with 
three yolks of eggs, well beaten, a small piece of 
butter, a tablespoonful of cream, a few drops of 
essence of anchovy, and a tablespoonful of finely 
chopped boiled onions (previously fried in butter), 
salt, pepper and cayenne to taste. Stir this over 
the fire until it thickens, pour over the dish of 
sardines, sprinkle with a few "drops of meat glaze, 
and serve hot. 



DEVILLED SABDIITES. 

Sardines a la Diable. 

Choose ten or twelve nice sardines, drain and 
wipe them, sprinkle with mustard and cayenne. 
Fry in a little butter on both sides. Serve on 
fingers of buttered toast. 

l^CLAIBS OF SARDINES. 

Carefully wipe a number of sardines, and 
remove the bones. EoU out some puff paste or 
short crust, ;about one eighth of an inch thick, 
and enclose each sardine neatly in a piece of paste. 
Shape each piece neatly and place on a baking 
sheet, brush the surface of the Eclairs with beaten 
egg, sprinkle some grated Parmesan and a pinch of 
paprika pepper over each. Mask each lightly with 
the point of a knife, and bake in a hot oven for 
about ten minutes. Dish up on a folded napkin 
or dish paper, garnish with parsley, and serve hot 
as a breakfast dish or savoury. 



82 SAVOURY DISHES OF FISH. 

SAEDINE CBOUSTADE, WITH CHEESE. 

Croustade de Sardides, au Fromage. 

Pound six sardines (boned) in a mortar, with an 
ounce of grated cheese ; season with salt, pepper, 
and chilli vinegar ; add one egg and a few finely 
chopped cpoked and bearded oysters ; fill the 
mixture into some small fried bread crusts 
(croustades), cover with hard-boiled yolks of eggs, 
previously rubbed through a sieve; put them in 
the oven for a few minutes, before serving, to get 
thoroughly hot. Dish up on a folded napkin, and 
garnish with fried parsley. 

SARDINES WITH CHEESE. 

Sardines mi Fromage. 

Drain and wipe a dozen sardines, remove the 
bones ; dip them in oiled butter, and roll in grated 
cheese ; place the fillets on fried bread crotitons ; 
set them in a hot oven for a few minutes, dish up, 
and serve when quite hot. 

ANCHOVY PINGEBS WITH CHEESE. 

Croutons d'Anchois au Fromage. 

Pound six filleted anchovies with a piece of 
butter in a mortar, add a teaspoonful of curry 
powder, three yolks of eggs, and a tablespoonful of 
grated Parmesan cheese ; warm up the whole in a 
stewpan. Prepare some square pieces of toasted 
bread, about half an inch thick, split them open 
like a muffin ; spread the mixture thickly on the 
cut side of the toast, sprinkle with Parmesan cheese, 



ANCHOVY TOAST. 83 

season with a little cayenne pepper, press two 
slices together, cut them into fingers, put them in 
a hot oven for a few minutes, dish up in the, 
lattice- work fashion, garnish with fried or fresh 
parsley, and serve. 

PBIED ANCHOVIES. 

Anchois frits. 

Prepare a frying batter, to which add half a 
glass of white wine ; mix it well. Cleanse and 
wipe a dozen Gorgona anchovies, dip them in the 
batter, and drop them one by one in hot fat ; fry 
to a nice brown colour, and drain on a cloth. 
Dish up and serve on a folded napkin ; garnish with 
fried parsley. 

ANCHOVY TOAST, No. 1. 
Croutes d'AncJwis a I'Anglaise. 

Melt half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, add 
a teaspoonful of anchovy paste, and two yolks of 
eggsj well beaten. Stir until quite hot, taking 
care not to let it boil ; pour this over some pre- 
pared hot buttered toast, dust with cayenne or 
paprika, and serve. 

ANCHOVY TOAST, No. 2. 

Mix the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs with two 
teaspoonfuls of anchovy paste and a quarter of an 
ounce of butter ; rub through a sieve, spread it on 
some thickly buttered slices of toasted bread, dish up, 
reheat, and serve as hot as possible. 



84 SAVOURY DISHES OF FISH. 



ANCHOVY PASTIES. 

Batons d'AncJwis. 

Scrape, wipe and bone ten Gorgona anchovies ; 
roll out some short paste or remnants of puff 
paste, enclose each fish neatly in the paste and 
trim. Place them on a baking sheet, brush over 
with beaten egg, sprinkle some grated Parmesan 
cheese and a pinch of cayenne pepper over each ; 
bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes, and 
serve. 

CURBIED ANCHOVY CBOt^TONS. 

Croutons d'Anchois a I'Indienne. 

Soak six Gorgona anchovies in cold water, drain, 
wipe and bone them, put the fish into a mortar, 
and pound, with an 'ounce of butter, a teaspoonful 
of curry powder or curry paste, and the yolk of a 
raw egg ; mix well. Put it through a sieve into a 
stewpan, stir over the fire until hot. Have ready 
some rounds of fried bread, spread these over thinly 
with anchovy paste, cover with the above mixture, 
and dust with Krona pepper. Dish up, put the 
dish in the oven for a few minutes just before 
serving. Garnish with fresh parsley, and serve. 

ANCHOVY BISCUITS. 

Biscuits au Beurre d'Anchois. 

Pound the fillets of six anchovies in a mortar 
vdth an ounce of butter, add a pinch of cayenne 
pepper, a little nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of 
essence of anchovies ; rub through a sieve, spread 
some round or oblong water biscuits with the paste ; 



OYSTER BONNES-BOUCHES. 85 

place them in the oven to get quite hot ; garnish 
the tops with strips of filleted anchovies and capers ; 
dish up on a folded napkin, and serve. 

SAVOURY ANCHOVY TOAST. 

Croutons d'Anchois aux fines Herbes. 

Wash, drain, bone and pound twelve Gorgona 
anchovies, with a few sprigs of blanched parsley, 
a small shallot, a sprig or two of chives, tarragon, 
and a pinch of cayenne pepper ; flavour with lemon 
juice, and moisten with a little sweet oil ; spread 
this on hot buttered toast, cut into fingers. Dish 
up on a folded napkin or dish paper, garnish with 
fresh parsley, and serve. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Huitres au Bewrre. 

Open, drain and trim a dozen large oysters, dry 
them on a cloth, dip them in oiled butter, season 
with white pepper, lay the oysters on a hot gridiron 
over a brisk &re; brown them lightly on both 
sides. Dish up on small rounds of toasted bread, 
garnish with crisp parsley, and serve. 

OYSTER BONNES-BOUCHES. 

Bonnes- Bouches aux Huitres. * 

Take eight large oysters from the shells, drain 
and trim them, wrap each up in a thin piece of 
bacon, and fasten with a small skewer. Stamp out 
some slices of bread with a circular cutter, fry 
these in butter to a light colour, grill the oysters 



86 SAVOURY DISHES OF FISH. 

in front or over a clear fire. When done on both 
sides place the oysters on crotltons, with the bacon 
on them, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. 

OYSTEBS ON TOAST. 

Huitres sur Pain grilU. 

Open, drain, trim and chop twelve large oysters, 
season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; put 
them into a stewpan with a small piece of butter; 
when hot stir in a tablespoonful of cream and the 
yolks of two eggs, well beaten. As soon as it 
begins to set, pour the preparation over some slices 
of buttered toast, and serve. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Huitres frites. 

Open some oysters, trim and drain them, season 
with pepper, dredge with flour, dip in egg and 
breadcrumbs. Fry a golden colour in hot fat or 
clarified butter, drain on a cloth, dish up on a 
folded napkin. Garnish with rings of lemon, 
sprigs of watercress or parsley, and serve. 

GRILLED OYSTERS. 

Huitres a V Am&ricaine. 

Open, drain and trim some large American 
oysters, dip them in flour, brush them over with 
egg, and roll in seasoned breadcrumbs. Eub the 
bars of a gridiron with suet or fat. Grill the 
oysters on both sides to a golden colour ; dish up 
on a folded napkin or dish paper. Garnish with 
lemon rings and fried parsley. 



DEVILLED OYSTERS, STEWED. 87 

SAVOTJRY OYSTERS. 

Huitres aux fines Herbes. 

Take twelve large oysters, drain them on a cloth, 
remove the beards, dip in oiled butter, sprinkle all 
over with finely powdered savoury herbs. When 
set and nearly cold, -egg and breadcrumb them 
carefully. Season the breadcrumbs with salt, 
pepper, and chopped parsley before crumbing. Fry 
in hot fat or clarified butter. Dish up on rings of 
lemon, garnish with fresh parsley, and serve. 

BBOIIjED oysters, new YORK STYLE. 

Huitres sautSes a V Amerieaine, 

Take twelve large oysters, drain and trim them, 
season with salt and cayenne pepper. Put them, 
together with their liquor and a small piece of 
butter, into a stewpan; allow them to get warm; 
take out the oysters, put them to drain. Grill 
them slightly on both sides. Thicken the liquor 
with a little bechamel sauce, season with cayenne 
and grated nutmeg, reheat, and dish up. Garnish 
the dish with sippets of fried or toasted .bread, and 
sprigs of fresh or fried parsley, and serve. 

DEVILLED OYSTERS, STEWED. 

Bagout d'Huitres a la Didble. 

Choose twelve fine large oysters, open, drain and 
trim them; chop them rather coarsely, and put 
into a stewpan with a tablespoonful of cream, a 
small piece of butter, and some chopped parsley. 
Season with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Stir over 
the fire for a few minutes, thicken with a table- 



SAVOURY DISHES OP FISH. 



spoonful of bechamel sauce, and bind with two 
yolks of eggs. Let the mixture remain over the 
fire, whilst stirring, until it sets. Have ready the 
deep shells of the oysters, cleaned and perfectly 
dry ; fill them with the mixture, sprinkle over with 
breadcrumbs, bake in a hot oven for a few minutes, 
dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, 
and serve. 

DEVILLED OTSTEBS, GRILLED. 

Huitres grilUes a la Biahle. 

Open, drain and trim some large oysters, season 
with salt, pepper and plenty of cayenne. Dip 
them in oiled butter, put on to a gridiron and broil 
for about five minutes. Dish up on fried croMons ; 
garnish with rings of lemon and fried parsley. 

DEVILLED OTSTBES ON MUSHBOOMS. 

Huitres a la Diahle, 

Ingredients. — 8 cup mushrooms of even size, 
2 dozen oysters, 8 rounds of toasted bread (same 
size as the mushrooms), 1 oz. butter, seasoning, 
1 tablespoonful Worcester sauce, 1 teaspoonful 
chilli vinegar, 1 teaspoonful meat extract (Lemco), 
1 tablespoonful port wine. 

Method. — Eemove the stalks from the mush- 
rooms, wash and drain ' them, season with salt 
and pepper, and fry in butter. Beard the oysters, 
put them with their liquor into a stewpan, and 
add the Worcester sauce, vinegar, meat extract, 
and wine. Heat up, but do not let it boil. Butter 
the rounds of toast, place upon each a mushroom, 
dark side upwards, put three oysters in each, with- 



SMALL OYSTER SOUFFL&S. 89 

a few drops of the sauce. Dish up, place the dish 
in a hot oven for a few seconds, and send to table 
quite hot. 

OYSTER RABEBIT. 

Beard twelve oysters and keep hot in their own 
liquor. Split three shredded wheat biscuits into 
two lengthways, butter them, and toast in the 
oven. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, add 
four ounces of cheese and three egg yolks, season 
with salt and pepper and add the oyster liquor. 
Stir over the fire till the cheese is melted, and 
pour over the biscuits. Place two oysters on the 
top of each and dish up. Serve at once. 

OYSTER TIT-BITS. 

Bonnes- Bcmches aux Huitres. 

Stamp out some slices of bread with a circulai 
cutter, fry in butter to a light brovm colour, and 
drain them. Take twelve large oysters from the 
shells, drain and trim them, wrap up each lightly 
in a thin piece of bacon, fasten with a small 
skewer. Eoast them in front of a clear fire, or 
broil them in a saute-pan over the fire ; when 
done on both sides remove the skewers, and place 
one oyster with the bacon neatly trimmed on each 
of the croutons ; range them on a folded napkin, 
garnish with parsley, and serve quickly. 

SMALL OYSTER SOUFFLES. 

Petits SoufflSs d'Huitres. 

Procure a dozen sauce oysters, blanch and beard 
them, strain the liquor into a basin, and mince the 
oysters rather coarsely. Melt one ounce of butter 
s. D, G 



go SAVOURY DISHES OP FISH. 

in a stewpan, add half an ounce of flour, and stir 
until the flour is cooked ; add rather more than a 
gill of hot milk and the oyster liquor, stir well, 
season with salt and cayenne, cook for ten minutes, 
and strain. Now add the minced oysters, reheat, 
and stir in gradually two yolks of eggs ; stir over 
the fire until the eggs begin to set. Eemove the 
stewpan from the fire, beat up three whites of egg 
to a stiff froth, and mix gently with the preparation. 
Three parts fill some souffle cases, sprinkle a few 
fried breadcrupibs on top of each, and a few drops 
of oiled butter, and bake in a moderate oven from 
ten to twelve minutes. 

OYSTERS IN THEIK SHELLS, DUMAS 
STYLE, 

CoquUles d'Huitres a la Dumas. 

Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, add 
a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and a dessert- 
spoonful of chopped morels ; add one dozen 
bearded oysters with their liquor, season with a 
little salt, a pinch of cayenne, and a pinch of grated 
nutmeg. When the oysters are hot add one hard- 
boiled egg, cut into slices. Allow the whole to 
simmer for five minutes, and fill the oyster shells 
with this. Cover each with a mixture of fresh 
breadcrumbs and Parmesan cheese, and sprinkle 
with a few drops of oiled butter ; brown the surface 
by means of a hot salamander, dish up, garnish 
with parsley, and serve quickly. 

OYSTER CROQUETS, WELLINGTON STYLE. 

Croquettes d'Huitres a la Wellington. 
Chop finely half a pound of cooked lean mutton, 
with a quarter of a pound of beef suet; parboil half 



ANGELS ON HORSEBACK. 91 

a pint of sauce oysters, beard and chop them like- 
wise. Mix all well, and season with salt, pepper, 
ground mace, cayenne, and lemon juice ; add one 
raw egg, well beaten, and some chopped parsley. 
Shape into balls, or cork shapes ; egg and crumb 
them, fry in hot fat or clarified butter, drain on a 
cloth, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and 
serve. 

OYSTER CBflPIWETTES. 

Crepinettes aiix Huitres. 

Blanch a dozen oysters in their own liquor, 
strain and trim them, and cut into small shces. 
Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, stir in half 
an ounce of flour, and moisten with the oyster 
liquor and stock (one gill in all), add the oysters, 
season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, 
flavour with some lemon juice and chopped parsley ; 
cook for a few minutes, and bind with two yolks 
of eggs. Spread the mixture on a dish to get cold. 
When quite cold, divide it into neat oblong shapes, 
wrap these up neatly in thin slices of bacon, or pig's 
caul. Dip one by one in prepared batter, fry them 
in hot lard or fat to a light brown colour, drain 
well on a cloth, dish up on a folded napkin, gar- 
nish with parsley, and serve. 

ANGELS ON HORSEBACK. 

Les Anges a Cheval. 

Stamp out some round pieces of bread, about a 
quarter of an inch thick and two inches in diameter, 
fry these a nice light colour in clarified butter, and 
spread over one side of each with anchovy paste. 
Place on this a piece of crisp, streaky bacon, the 

G2 



92 SAVOURY DISHES OF FISH. 

same size as the croutons. Trim and beard as 
many oysters as you have croAtons, place one on 
top of each prepared crotlton, sprinkle with oiled 
butter, a few drops of lemon juice, and a little 
chopped parsley. Dust with cayenne pepper, and 
set in a hot oven, just long enough for the oysters 
to get hot through. Dish up in rows, pour the 
oyster liquor previously heated round the crolitons, 
and serve quickly. 

Another way is to wrap each oyster, after being 
seasoned, in a thin small slice of bacon, put them 
on skewers and grill them over a clear fire ; place 
them on rounds of buttered toast, dish up, garnish, 
and serve. 



OTSTBR PATTIES, CORDON BOUGE STYLE. 

Petit! PdtSs d'Huitres a la Cordon rouge. 

Line some small deep patty pans with puff paste, 
put a teaspoonful of cream in each, sprinkle with 
chopped parsley and a httle tarragon and chervil, 
and season with ground mace, cayenne, and grated 
nutmeg to taste. Put two trimmed oysters in 
each of the patties, sprinkle with a little finely 
chopped lemon rind and some lemon juice, moisten 
with a httle white wine, cover with some bread- 
crumbs, garnish the tops with a ring of puff paste, 
place on baking sheets, and bake for fifteen 
minutes in a quick oven. Serve as soon as they 
are done on a dish garnished with sprigs of water- 
cress. 

Great care should be taken so as not to allow 
the gravy to dry up, as this is most delicious if 
served quickly. 



HERRING ROES ON TOAST. 93 

FRIED FROGS, FRENCH STYLE. 

Grenouilles frites a Id Frangaise. 

Procure about two dozen dressed frogs of even 
size, cut off the feet, and wash them well. Wipe 
them with a cloth, place them on a dish, season with 
pepper and salt, sprinkle with a little chopped 
parsley,, olive oil, and lemon juice. Stand the 
dish on the ice for half an hour. Have ready some 
frying batter ; dip each into the batter, and fry a 
nice fight brown in hot fat ; drain, dish up, garnish 
with Med parsley, and serve. 

COCKLE PATTIES, AMERICAN STYLE. 

Petites BoiicMes de Bucardes a V AmSricaine. 

Put as many prepared cockles as you require 
into a stewpan, add sufficient rich white sauce 
to cover the cockles, season with salt and pepper, 
and add a Httle essence of anchovy to flavour. 
Thicken with a tablespoonful of bechamel sauce, 
and let all simmer for a few minutes, and fill up 
some patty cases, which have been previously 
lined with puff paste crust. Bake in a moderate 
oven, dish up, and serve hot. 

HERRING ROES ON TOAST. 

Laitances de Harengs a la Broehe. 

Ingebdibnts. — 8-10 soft roes of herrings, 2 
slices of toasted bread, 1 oz. anchovy paste, 1 oz. 
butter, 1 teaspoonful lemon juice, a good pinch of 
Krona pepper, or salt and cayenne, 1 shallot. 

Method. — Place the herring roes in a well 
buttered saute-pan, sprinkle over the shallot. 



94 SAVOURY DISHES OF FISH. 

previously chopped and fried in butter ; add the 
lemon juice, cover with a piece of buttered paper, 
and bake in a quick oven for about eight minutes. 
Mix the anchovy paste with about half an ounce 
of butter, and spread over the toasted bread ; cut 
this into convenient strips about the size of the 
roes ; take up the roes, fasten each on a tiny silver 
skewer (obtainable at first-class ironmongers and 
silversmiths). Dress the roes with their skewer 
on the toast, dish up on a dish with a folded nap- 
kin or lace paper, garnish with sprigs of fresh 
parsley, and serve. 

KIPPERED HEBBINGS, SCOTCH STYLE. 

Harengn Jumis a I'Ecossaise. 

Cut off the heads and tails of three or four smoked 
herrings, dust both sides with flour, spread on a 
well-greased gridiron and broil over a sharp fire. 
Season with black pepper, dish up, and serve with 
a small piece of butter on each fish. 

Yarmouth bloaters, after they have been split 
down the back, are prepared in the same manner. 
A thick captain's biscuit or a brown bread biscuit, 
made hot, is usually served with either. 

SMOKED HEBBINGS BBUXELLOISE. 

Harengsfmneg a la Briucelloise, 

Skin, split, and bone four smoked herrings, 
place the fillets in a well-buttered saut6-pan ; 
sprinkle with chopped mushrooms, parsley, chives, 
savoury herbs and shallots; season with white 
pepper and cayenne. Put a few small pieces of 
butter here and there on the fillets, strew over 



SMOKED COD'S ROE CRO&TONS. 95 

some fine breadcrumbs, cook in the oven until 
done. Dish up neatly, garnish with slices of 
lemon and watercress, and serve hot. 

FILLETS OF BLOATERS WITH CHEESE. 

Filets de Harengs fumis au Fromage. 

Skin two large-sized bloaters, split them down 
the back, remove the bones, place the fillets on a 
greased gridiron over, or before, the fire, and broil 
until nearly tender ; then dip them in oiled butter, 
and cover with grated Parmesan cheese. Have 
ready some hot buttered pieces of toasted bread, 
cut these in convenient shapes, put a fillet on 
each, put them on a dish, sprinkle with a few 
fried breadcrumbs, place in a hot oven for a few 
minutes, dish up, garnish with parsley. 

HERRING FRITTERS, ALLEMANDE. 

Beignets de Filets de Harengs a V Allemande. 

Skin and fillet two smoked herrings, cut these 
into neat pieces, put them in a deep dish, season 
with pepper and lemon juice, and moisten with a 
little sweet oil ; prepare a thick batter with flour, 
eggs and milk; drop in the pieces of fillets,, and 
fry them in hot fat or lard to a light brown colour. 
Dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with fried 
parsley. 

SMOKED COD'S ROE CROtTTOlfS. 

Laitaiice de CaMllaud fume sur Croutons. 

Soak a cod's roe in a marinade or water for a 
few hours, wipe, dry, and cut into slices ; broil 



96 SAVOURY DISHES OF FISH. 

these lightly in butter. Have ready some rounds 
of fried bread, place on them the slices of roe, 
dish up, sprinkle with white pepper, a little 
cayenne, and the juice of half a lemon ; garnish 
with parsley, and serve. 

CAVIABB PANCAKES. 

CrSpes de Caviar. 

Prepare a rich pancake batter in the usual 
formula. When the batter has been allowed to 
stand for about half an hour, strain it into a jug 
and fry about six thin pancakes in a very smaU 
omelet pan ; drain them on a cloth. Spread one 
side of each pancake with a thin layer of anchovy 
butter, garnish this with another layer of caviare, 
previously mixed with a finely chopped shallot, a 
little cayenne, and a few drops of lemon juice. 
Boll or fold the pancakes quickly as soon as each 
is done, then cut into convenient portions. Dish 
up quickly, garnish with quarters of lemon and 
some parsley, and send to table immediately. 

CAVIARE BOUCHBES. 

Prepare and bake six very small puff paste 
patty cases {BoticMes). Bemove the lid, scoop, 
out carefully the centre portion and keep hot. 
Peel and chop a shallot very finely and put it in a 
saucepan with half an ounce of butter, stir over 
the fire long enough to slightly warm the shallot, 
put in the contents of a pot of Senn's Hygiewic 
Caviare, stir gently with a wooden spoon, add 
two tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce (well reduced) 
and a few drops of lemon juice, let it get 



DEVILLED CAVIARE 97 

thoroughly hot. Fill up the cases with this, 
place them on a dish, put on the Hds, garnish with 
little heaps of fried parsley, and serve hot. 

CAVIAR A LA PBOVElfgAIiB. 

Select six even-sized small onions, peel them 
and cook for ten minutes in salted water, drain, 
and cool ; cut or scoop out the centre portion of 
each. Fill the cavities with Senn's Hygienic 
Caviare, mixed with a yolk of egg, a tablespoonful 
of soft breadcrumbs, a small piece of butter, and 
a pinch of black pepper. Put the stuffed onions 
on a buttered baking tin or pan, and bake for 
fifteen or twenty minutes. Have handy six 
rounds of fried bread croutons, and put a baked 
onion on each. Eange them neatly on a dish, 
and garnish with fanciful cut sHces of lemon and 
parsley. 

DEVILLED CAVIAKE. 
Caviar a la Diable. 

Have ready some rotmds of fried bread ; drain 
them well, and spread one side of each with a layer 
of devilled butter. Upon this pile a sufficiency of 
Hygienic Caviare to well cover each cro&te. 
Sprinkle with cayenne pepper, and insert a 
number of almond chips, in the form of a border, 
round the caviare. Place in a hot oven for a few 
minutes, and serve. 



Savoury Meat t)ishes. 



MEAT CROQUETS. 

Croquettes de Viande. 

Ingbedients. — Aboiit J lb. of cold meat, either 
beef, veal, mutton or lamb, free from bone, 1-2 oz. 
of ham or tongue, 6 preserved mushrooms, half 
a small onion, | oz. butter, \ oz. flour, seasoning, 
a little stock, 2 eggs, breadcrumbs, and frying fat. 

Method. — Free the meat from superfluous fat, 
all the skin and gristle, and mince it finely, in- 
cluding the ham or tongue and the mushrooms. 
Peel and chop finely the onion, fry it a little in 
the butter, add the flour, stir for a few minutes 
over the fire, then add the mince; season with 
salt and pepper and a pinch of savoury herbs. 
Moisten with one or two tablespoonfuls of stock, 
and allow to get thoroughly hot ; stir in the yolks 
of two eggs and bind, i.e., continue to stir over the 
fire until the mixture appears to be of correct 
consistency. Turn it out on a dish and let cool. 
Divide it into even-sized portions and make up 
these into cork, or ball, shapes. Dip them in 
beaten egg, roll in breadcrumbs, and fry in deep 
hot fat a golden brown. Take up, drain, and dish 
up tastefully. Garnish with fned parsley, and 
serve. 



CANNELONS. 99 



CHICKEN CROQUETS. 

Croquettes de Volatile. 

Take the remains of any fowl or turkey, remove 
carefully all the bones, skin and gristle, and mince 
or chop the meat finely with half the quantity of 
ham and tongue, and a few mushrooms, also a 
finely chopped truffle; add a handful of white 
breadcrumbs. Melt a piece of butter in a stew- 
pan, fry in it two finely chopped shallots. Stir in 
the mince, season with pepper, salt, and grated 
nutmeg, add a Httle bechamel or any other white 
sauce, the yolks of two or three eggs, according to 
the quantity used. Stir over the fire until it sets. 
Spread on a flat dish, and allow to cool. When 
cold, form it into ball, cutlet, or cork shapes, all of 
even size, dip them in egg and breadcrumbs, and 
fry in clarified hot fat. Drain, dish up on a 
napkin or dish paper, garnish vyith paisley, and 
serve. 

EBOMESEIS. 

These are prepared by making a croquet 
mixture composed mainly of cold chicken, as given 
in the various recipes. Shape a number of small 
rolls about IJ in. long, wrap each in a thin slice 
of bacon, dip in frying batter, and fry in hot fat 
to a golden brown colour. Drain, dish up, garnish 
with fried parsley, and serve with a suitable sauce. 
Tartare, tomato, piquante, or Eobert sauce is the 
most popular for this dish. 

CANNELONS. 

Prepare a croquet mixture as described for Meat 
Croquets. Roll out some puff paste, cut it into 



SAVOURY MEAT DISHES. 



oblong pieces, place a layer of the meat mixture in 
the centre of each piece of paste, wet the edge and 
roll up. Trim the ends to make each cannelon of 
even size. Egg and breadcrumb them and fry in 
deep fat a golden brown. Drain, dish up, and 
serve hot. 

CBi^PINBTTES. 

Have the same kind of preparation as above 
given, using any kind of cold meat, fowl, or game. 
When cold, shape it into even-sized oblong or 
square and other flat pieces. Wrap each carefully 
in a piece of pig's caul. Dip them in beaten 
white of egg, and broil in a saut6-pan, containing a 
little butter, over a moderate fire for about ten 
minutes ; finish in the oven till nicely browned. 
Take up, drain, and dish up; pour tomato or 
piquante sauce round the dish, and serve. 

Note. — By way of a change crSpinettes may be 
dipped in batter, or egged and crumbed, and fried in 
deep fat, the same as croquets or rissoles. 

SALPICON OP CHICKEN WITH 
POTATOES. 

Cut into small dice slices of cold cliicken, 
tongue or ham, truffles and mushrooms all in due 
proportion, as is usual for a salpicon. Heat this 
up in a rich bechamel or other good white sauce, 
using only just enough to well moisten the mixture. 
Arrange a neat border of mashed potatoes, forced 
from a savoy bag and fancy tube, on a round or 
oval dish ; brush this over with egg yolk and bake. 
Put the salpicon in the centre of the dish, sprinkle 
with parsley, and serve. 



VENISON CROQUETS. 



CHICKEN CROUSTADES. 

Petites Croitstades de Volatile. 

Prepare a salpicon of minced chicken or turkey, 
and ham or tongue, and bind with a rich white 
sauce. Have some very small French rolls cut in 
halves lengthways; scoop out the soft parts of 
bread ; dry the crusts in the oven and fill them 
with the mixture. Coat the top with white sauce, 
sprinkle with fresh breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, 
and grated Parmesan cheese ; brush over with 
oiled butter. Place in the oven for about ten 
minutes, dish up, and serve hot. 



VENISON CBOQTTETS. 

Croquettes de CJievreuU. 

Mince finely some sUces of cold venison ; to each 
half-pound of meat add a quarter of a pound of 
mashed potatoes, two ounces of fine breadcrumbs, 
six chopped preserved mushrooms, a tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley, a chopped shaUot, previously 
cooked in butter, and some savoury herbs. Season 
with salt and pepper, mix with three yolks of 
eggs ; stir over the fire with half an ounce of butter, 
to form a salpicon ; set it to get cold. Make up 
into croquet shapes, egg and breadcrumb them, 
and fry in hot fat or lard. Drain, dish up on a 
folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and 
serve with tomato, poivrade, flavoured with a 
dessertspoonful of Lazenby's sauce. 

Note. — For an ordinary salpicon, potatoes and 
bread should be omitted. 



SAVOURY MEAT DISHES. 



VENISON RISSOLES. 

Rissoles de Chevreuil, 

Roll but some puff paste or second paste, stamp 
out circles of desired size ; lay a teaspoonful of 
prepared venison salpicon in the centre, brush the 
edges with beaten egg or water, fold over to form 
a half-circle, press the edges together, and trim 
with a sharp cutter. Brush over with egg, dip 
them in breadcrumbs, or crushed vermicelli, and fry 
in hot fat to a Hght brown colour. Dish up, garnish 
with fried parsley, and serve. 

MARROW PATTIES. 

Petites Bouehees a la Moelle. 

Take the marrow from a beef bone, cut it into 
small dice, put it into a stewpan with sufficient 
water to blanch ; drain off the water and add a 
small handful of fresh breadcrumbs, a dessert- 
spoonful of chopped stoned olives, the juice of half 
a lemon, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch 
of grated nutmeg, and a dust of cayenne. Eoll out 
about half a pound of good puff paste a quarter of 
an inch thick, stamp out some rounds with a 
circular cutter, about two inches in diameter; 
place them on a baking sheet, dip a smaller round 
cutter in hot water and stamp half-way through 
the paste to form the lids, brush over with beaten 
egg, and bake for about fifteen minutes. Cut out 
the lid, and scoop out the inside whilst warm. 
Put the above described mixture in a saucepan 
over the fire, add about half a gill of brown sauce 
and a small glass of Madeira wine; allow it 
to boil for five minutes, and fill the cases vrith it. 
Beplace the lids, dish up in a pyramidal form, 
garnish with parsley, and serve. 



CHICKEN AND HAM TIT-BITS. 103 

SAVOURY MARROW ON TOAST. 

Moelle de Bceuf mix fi/nes Herbes. 

Break up two good beef bones, extract the mar- 
row, cut it into square dice, and put to soak in 
water for two hours. Bring the pieces to a boil 
over a quick fire, take them out to drain ; dress 
them on small pieces of buttered toast; break 
them with a fork, so as to spread the marrow over 
the surface of each piece of bread; season with 
salt, pepper, cayenne, and lemon juice, and sprinkle 
with finely chopped parsley. Dish up neatly, 
brown a little with a hot salamander, garnish with 
fried parsley, and serve. 

CHICKEN AND HAM TIT-BITS. 

Bonnes- Bouches de Volaille et Jambon. 

Cut some thin slices of bread, stamp out some 
rounds with a plain circular cutter, about an inch 
and a half in diameter ; fry these in clarified buttex 
a light colour, and drain on a cloth. Chop not too 
finely half a pound of chicken meat and three 
ounces of ham, put this into a stewpan with one 
teaspoonful of curry paste and two tablespoonfuls 
of white sauce ; season with a little cayenne 
pepper, and bring it to a boil. Spread one side of 
the rounds of fried bread with this preparation, 
place two together like sandwiches, and put them 
on a baking sheet. Prepare a mixture with two 
ounces of grated Gruyfere cheese, an ounce of 
butter, and a teaspoonful of curry paste, and mix 
it with a little breadcrumbs. Shape it into small 
balls. Place one ball in the centre of each, put 
them in a quick oven for about five minutes, pile 
up on a dish, and serve. 



104 SAVOURY MEAT DISHES. 



SAVOUSY GAME PATTIES, CORDON BOUGE 
STYLE. 

Petit* PdtSs de Gibier a la Cordon rouge. 

Pound in a mortar some cold game previously 
freed from bones and skin. Season with pepper, 
salt, grated nutmeg, and lemon juice. When fine 
enough rub through a wire sieve, mix with some 
rich brown sauce, and bind -with, one or two raw 
yolks of eggs, according to the quantity. Line 
some small patty pans with puff paste trimming, 
or short paste ; fill these with the above mixture, 
cover them over with a small quantity of whisked 
white of egg seasoned vsrith sdt and lemon juice. 
Smooth the surface with the blade of a knife, and 
bake in the oven to a bright golden colour. 
Dress them on a dish, covered with a folded nap- 
kin or dish paper, and garnish with small fried 
onion rings. 

SMALL GAME SOUFFLES. 

Petits SoujffUs de Gibier. 

Take some cold game, remove all the meat 
from the bones and skin ; put it in a mortar and 
pound with a small handful of cooked rice to about 
I lb. of meat, an otmce of fresh butter, half a 
gill of rich brown sauce, and a teaspoonful 
dissolved meat glaze. Season with salt, pepper, 
grated nutmeg, powdered sweet herbs, bind with 
one or two yolks of raw eggs. Eub all through a 
sieve ; mix in gently the whites of one or two 
eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Put the mixture in 
some well-greased timbale moulds, and steam for 
forty minutes, or bake them in a quick oven for 



SWEETBREAD PATTIES, ALLEMANDE. ioS 



about half an hour. Turn out on a hot dish. 
Sauce round with some game sauce or poivrade 
sauce, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. 

GAME PRITTEKS. 
Beignets de Gibier. 

Take a pound of meat from any kind of roast 
game — grouse, pheasant, partridge, etc. — ^freed 
from skm, hone and gristle, chop up finely with 
six preserved mushrooms, three peeled shallots, 
and the thin rind of half a lemon. Season vrith 
salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, sweet thyme and 
marjoram ; mix thoroughly, then add three or four 
eggs, cook long enough to hind the mixture, and 
let cool. Make up into convenient size shapes, 
dip in prepared light batter, and fry in hot fat or 
clarified butter. Drain well, dish up on a folded 
napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. 

GAME BOUIiETTES. 
Boulettes de Gibifi: 

For these prepare a mixture the same as for 
" Game Fritters." Make it up into ball shapes of 
uniform size. Egg and crumb them in the usual 
way and fry in hot fat. Dish up, and serve v?ith 
a boat of taxtare sauce. 

SWEETBREAD PATTIES, AXIiEMANDE. 

Petites Bouchees de Bis de Veau a I'AUemande. 

Blanch one or two small sweetbreads in salted 
water, cut them into small dice, and toss in butter ; 
add some chopped shallots, parsley, a tablespoon- 
s. D. n 



io6 SAVOURY MEAT DISHES. 

ful of flour ; season to taste with salt, pepper, 
grated nutmeg, and lemon juice, also a little 
cayenne, and cook for a few minutes.^ Moisten 
with a little white sauce, or supreme sauce, fill 
the mixture into small puff paste or bouch^e cases, 
put on their covers, dish up on a folded napkin, 
and serve. 

SWEETBREAD PBITTBBS, 
Beignets de His de Veau. 

Cut the remains of cooked sweetbread into neat 
slices, season with salt, pepper, and lemon juice, 
pour over some sweet oil, and sprinkle with chopped 
parsley. Drain the slices and dip each into frying 
batter. Fry a golden brown in hot fat. Drain, 
dish up, and sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese 
and a dust of cayenne or Krona pepper. 

GRILLED KIDNEYS, INDIAN STYLE. 

Rogtions de Mouton a I'lndienne. 

Split the kidneys open, remove the skin, run a 
skewer through them to prevent curling when 
cooking, and lard the inside with thin strips of 
bacon. Season with salt and pepper, brush over 
with oiled butter, and broil them on a gridiron 
over a bright fire. When done, spread over with 
curry paste, remove the skewer, dish up on pieces 
of toasted bread, squeeze a Httle lemon juice 
over each, garnish with parsley, and serve. 

CROUSTADBS OP KIDNEY, REFORM STYLE. 

Croustades de Rognons a la ESforme. 

Carve out of stale white bread some little boat 
shapes, fry Ihem in hot fat to a golden colour, and 



SAVOURY SOUFFLES, SALISBURY STYLE. 107 

drain. Slice the kidney finely, season with salt 
and pepper, and broil lightly in Ijutter ; add lemon 
juice to flavour, and moisten with a sharp brown 
sauce ; fill the fried croustades with this, dress them 
neatly on a dish, sprinkle with chopped finely cut 
strips of parsley. Garnish the dish with preserved 
mushrooms, gherkins and truffle, place it in the 
oven for a few minutes to get thoroughly hot, and 
serve with a tiny piece of red currant jelly on 
top of each. 

DEVILLED MEATS. 

2Iets de Viande a la Diable. 

Cut some thin slices of cold meat — the remains 
of any kind will do — put them in a deep dish, and 
saturate with the following marinade : A wine- 
glassful of claret, the juice of half a lemon, a 
teaspoonful of oil, one of chilli vinegar, one of hot 
Worcestershire sauce, one of mushroom ketchup ; 
add also a pinch of mustard, some peppercorns, 
salt, and cayenne to taste. Put a few small pieces of 
butter here and there on the top. Place the dish in a 
hot oven for about thirty minutes, and serve. 

SAVOUBT SOUFFLES, SALISBURY STYLE. 

Souffles savour eux a la Salisbury. 

Mince finely about half a pound of any kind of 
cold game, freed from skin and bones ; add to it an 
ounce of finely chopped ham. Melt an ounce of 
butter in a stewpan, and fry in it two chopped 
shallots, then add the mince, four chopped mush- 
rooms, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Heat 
up and add two tablespoonfuls of brown sauce ; 
season with pepper, salt, a pinch of ground mace, 

Ha 



io8 SAVOURY MEAT DISHES. 

and cayenne. Eub all through a wire sieve. 
Put the purte into a small stewpan, stir in two 
yolks of eggs and two small chopped truffles ; beat 
the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and stir in 
lightly. Fill some paper or china souffle cases 
with this preparation, and bake in a moderate 
oven for about ten minutes ; dish up as soon as 
done, and serve quickly. 

CHICKEN LIVES ON TOAST. 

Foie de Volaille sur Ganaph. 

Ingbediehts. — Chicken livers, 6 or 8 oval- 
shaped croAtes of fried or toasted bread, 6 or 8 thin 
slices of bacon, 1 oz. butter, 1 saltspoonful of 
mustard and cayeime, meat glaze. 

Method. — Clean the livers, cut them in halves, 
sprinkle with pepper, roll each piece in a thin 
slice of bacon, broil over a brisk coal fire. Mix the 
butter with the mustard and a pinch of cayenne ; 
spread the crofttes with this, dish up, and place the 
broiled livers and bacon on the croAtes, brush over 
with Hquid meat glaze, garnish with fried parsley, 
and serve quickly. 

DEVILLED CHICKEN LIVER. 

Foie de Volaille a la Diahle, 

Pound the cooked livers of two turkeys or three 
fowls, mix it with a teaspoonful of prepaxed 
mustard, salt, cayenne, a tablespoonful of anchovy 
essence, and a little butter ; work it into a smootlj 
paste, rub through a sieve, spread on hot buttered 
toast. Place it in a very sharp oven for a few 



TONGUE TOAST. log 



minutes to get thoroughly hot, and cut it into con- 
venient pieces, dish up, garnish with parsley, and 
serve. 

DEVILLED FOWL. 

Cvissons de Volaille a la Diable. 

Take the remains of a cold fowl, divide it into 
neat joints; trim off the bones and remove the 
skin. Mix together a teaspoonfol of mustard with 
a Httle anchovy essence, a teaspoonful of Worcester 
sauce, a tablespoonful of salad oil, and a little 
cayenne pepper. When quite smooth cover the 
pieces of chicken with this miKture. Grill them 
for about ten minutes over a moderate fire, turning 
them frequently till they are thoroughly hot and 
brown, and serve at once. 

DEVILLED OX-TONGUE. 
Langue de Bmuf a la Diable. 

Mince finely four ounces of cooked ox-tongue 
with one ounce of bacon fat, season with plenty 
of white pepper and cayenne, and add a few 
chopped mushrooms. Cut a French roU into 
slices and toast them Hghtly on both sides, dip 
them in a mixture of claret and beaten egg ; 
sprinkle the shces with grated nutmeg and 
cayenne. Spread each thickly with the tongue 
mixture and place a button mushroom in the 
centre of each ; coat over with rich cream sauce, 
and make hot in a quick oven ; dish up, and serve 
quickly. 

TONGUE TOAST. 

Chop finely the remains of a tongue (four to six 
ounces), mix with it the yolk of an egg, a httle 



SAVOURY MEAT DISHES. 



cream, season with a little salt, pej)per, chopped 
parsley, and grated nutmeg ; heat up in a stewpan. 
Spread this over some slices of hot buttered toast, 
sprinkle with breadcrumbs, cut the shces into 
fingers of equal sizes, let them brown before the 
fire, or in a hot oven. Dish up on a folded napkin, 
or dish paper, gaxnish with parsley, and serve. 

HAM FBITTBRS. 

Bdgnets de Jambon. 

Mince finely half a pound of ham with a due pro- 
portion of fat. Add to this one beaten egg, a small 
handful of breadcrumbs, and a httle cream. 
Season to taste with some white pepper and paprika. 
Cut two French rolls into slices, soak them in milk 
and egg for a short time, fry them lightly in hot 
butter, drain on a cloth, spread over both sides 
thickly with the ham mixture, dip in beaten egg 
and fried breadcrumbs. Place them in a wire 
basket and fry in hot fat ; drain, dish up on a 
folded napkin, garnish with crisp parsley, and 
serve. 

SAVOUBY HAM PATTIES. 

Petites BouchSes de Jambon. 

Chop or mince finely half a pound of lean 
ham. Mix with this a gill of whipped cream, 
season to taste with pepper, ground mace, and a 
little Erona pepper, and bind with a yolk of egg. 
FUl some small puff paste cases with this, place them 
in a hot oven for a few minutes to get hot through, 
cover them, dish up, garnish with fresh parsley 
or sprigs of watercress, and serve. 



SAVOURY TOAST (COLD MEAT). 



HAM TOAST. 

Crotites de Jambon. 

Mince finely a quarter of a pound of lean ham, 
mix with it half an ounce of butter and two yolks 
of eggs, season with pepper and a httle cayenne. 
Stir the mixture over the fire in a stewpan until 
it sets, then spread (pyramidal form) some slices 
of buttered toast with the mixture, cut the toast 
in convenient pieces, dish up, and serve hot. 

SCBAMBIiED HAM WITH EGGS. 

Jambon brouiUS aux (Eufs, 

Shred finely four ounces of lean cooked ham ; mix 
with four eggs and a tablespoonful of milk ; pour 
into a pan, and add one or two pats of fresh butter, 
and seasoning. Stir till the eggs are set ; serve on 
toast. 

SAVOUBT TOAST (COLD MEAT). 

Chop finely the remains of cold beef, mutton, or 
veal ; to each half-poimd add an oimce of chopped 
ham or tongue; put this into a stewpan with 
sufficient white sauce to moisten, season vnth salt, 
pepper, grated nutmeg, and a pinch of cayenne, 
and allow it to get thoroughly hot. Beat up the 
yolks of two eggs, and add. Stir until it begins to 
set, but do not let it boil. Have ready one or two 
shoes of buttered toast, well trimmed of crust ; put 
the mince on it in a heap, smooth it over with a 
knife. Beat up the white of one egg to a stiff 
froth, and spread the top of each ; sprinkle over 
with a few fried breadcrumbs, and a pinch of 



SAVOURY MEAT DISHES. 



cayenne pepper or paprika. Place it in a very hot 
oven for five minutes to colour the top, and serve 
quickly. 

CBOtrTES OP CHICKEN, DEVILLED. 

Croutes de Volaille a la Diable. 

Cut out twelve small rounds of bread, about half 
an inch deep, stamp out the centre \?ith a small 
plain cutter, and scoop out as much of the crumby 
part as possible. Fry these in clarified butter, 
and drain on a cloth. Cut into shreds six ounces 
of cold chicken meat and two ounces of ham or 
tongue ; put it in a stewpan with half an ounce of 
butter, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch 
of curry powder, and a dust of cayenne pepper. 
Heat the mixture over the fire, fill the erotltes, 
glaze the tops with dissolved meat glaze, put them 
in a hot oven for a few seconds, dish up, and serve. 

FRIZZLED BEEP ON TOAST. 

Cut some hung beef (Hamburg or dried beef) 
into very thin sHces of uniform size ; bla>nch and 
drain. Melt enough butter in a frying or saut^- 
pan, and in it toss the sUces over a quick fire. 
Serve on toasted and buttered bread, 

SCBAMBLED BRAINS. 

Wash and cleanse either a pair of calf, pig, or 
sheep's brains. Parboil them in salted water, 
containing the juice of half a lemon, a slice of 
onion, a bayleaf , and a few peppercorns. Take up, 
drain, and chop into small pieces. Beat up four or 
six eggs in a stewpan, add about an ounce of fresh 



SMOKED HAM SAUSAGE FRITTERS. 113 

butter, a dash of chilli vinegar, and seasoning. 
Mix in the chopped brains, and stir over a quick 
fire till the naixture commences to set. Serve on 
buttered toast. 

BRAIN CUTLETS. 

Cotelettes de Cervelles. 

Prepare a salpicon vyith cooked brains, chopped 
coarsely, as above, half its volume of finely chopped 
ham, and about six mushrooms. Season to taste, 
moisten vrith a little well reduced white sauce, 
stir over the fire, and bind with two or three egg 
yolks. Spread the mixture on a plate and shape 
into cutlets when cold, and egg and crumb them. 
Insert a piece of macaroni at end of each cutlet. 
Fry in hot fat a golden colour. Dish up, and 
garnish with parsley. 

PRIED BRAINS A I.A TARTARE. 

Prepare and parboil a pair of brains same as for 
scrambled brains. Cut into quarters^ immerse in 
marinade of oil and Arinegar, etc. Dip each into 
frying batter, and fry in deep hot fat to a golden 
colour. Drain and serve hot, with tartare sauce 
in separate boat. 

SMOKED HAM SAUSAGE FRITTERS. 
Bdgnets a VAnciemie. 

Ingeedients. — 8 or 10 oz. smoked and cooked 
ham sausage (German), 2 tablespoonfuls salad oil, 
f tablespoonful vinegar, 1 teaspoonful chopped 
parsley, 2 oz. flour, 1 egg, J teaspoonful oriental 
salt, frying fat, and parsley for garnish. 



114 SAVOURY MEAT DISHES. 



Method. — Cut the sausage into J in. thick sHces, 
put them on a plate or pie dish, sprinkle over with the 
chopped parsley, oriental salt> salad oil, and vinegar. 
Sift the flour into a basin, beat up the egg, add 
a pinch of salt to the flour and gradually stir in 
the egg, beat up well for several minutes, and add 
a Uttle cream or milk to form a paste th^ con- 
sistency of batter. Let it stand for at least half 
an hour, dip each slice of sausage in the batter so 
as to coat it well, drop into hot fat, and fry a 
golden colour. Take up, drain well, dish up on a 
folded napkin or lace paper, garnish with fried 
parsley, and serve plain, or with a boat of hot 
tomato or piquante sauce. 

SAUSAGE CAKES. 

Take a pound of sausage meat, season it with a 
little finely chopped parsley and very little grated 
lemon rind, bind with a beaten egg, and make up 
into round flat cakes of even size. Place them on 
a greased baking tin and bake for about twenty 
minutes. Dish up on a bed of mashed potatoes. 
Pour hot tomato sauce round the base of the dish, 
and serve. 

GOOSE-LIVER EBITTBBS, STBASBOUBG 
STYLE. 

Bdgnets de Foie-gras a la Strasbourgeoise, 

Ingeedients. — 6 or 8 thin slices of raw ham, 
1 terrine or tin of foie-gras pit6, parsley ; frying 
batter: 2 yolks of eggs, the white of one egg, 
4 oz. flour, about J gill stale beer (German beer 
is best), salt and pepper, J tablespoonful of sweet 
oil, frying fat.. 

Method. — Stamp out some rounds of ham 



BROCHETTES. 115 

with a 1-in. or IJ-in. cutter. Eemove the lard from 
the foie-gras, cut it into convenient slices, stamp 
out each slice about the size of the ham, prepare 
the frying batter with the above ingredients, allow 
it to stand for some time, spread a little of the 
batter with a knife over each slice of ham, place 
a slice of foie-gras between each two, and make up 
like sandwiches, the batter being, so to speak, used 
as butter and the ham as bread. Coat each sand- 
wich well with batter, and fry in hot fat a golden 
colour. Drain, dish up, garnish with quarters of 
lemon and sprigs of parsley, and serve with a 
small boat of tomato sauce. 

DEVILLED TURKEY. 

Cuisse de Dinde a la Diable, 

Trim the legs of a cold turkey, steep them in 
oiled butter, sprinkle with cayenne pepper, curry 
powder, and salt. Prepare a mixture consisting of 
one tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, four, 
tablespoonfuls of thick white sauce, one of anchovy 
sauce, and a teaspoonful of made mustard. 
Spread over the legs completely with this. When 
set, egg and breadcrumb ; fry in hot fat or lard, or 
bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes ; dish up, 
garnish with pWsley, and serve. 

BBOCHETTBS. 

Stamp out some round slices of cooked meat, 
such as beef, ham, chicken, etc. , about a quarter of an 
inch thick ; fasten these on skewers with alternate 
rounds of fat bacon. Grill them over a bright 
fire. Serve on toasted bread spread with devilled 
butter. 



"Vegetable Entremets 

AND 

Savouries. 



TOMATOES WITH CHEESE. 

Tomates au Fromage. 

Slice some tomatoes, season them with pepper 
and salt. Dip the slices into white of egg, and 
crmnb with grated Parmesan cheese. Place the 
sUces on a buttered baking sheet or saut6-pan, 
cover them with a piece of buttered paper, and 
bake for fifteen mmutes. Have ready some 
macaroni, broken up small, and cooked in seasoned 
milk. Dress the macaroni in the shape of a border 
on a dish, and pile up the baked tomatoes in the 
centre; sprinkle the border with finely chopped 
parsley, garnish with small fried bread crofttons, 
and serve. 

TOMATOES ON TOAST. 

Tomates sur Pain grilU. 

Cut six ripe tomatoes into thick slices, put these 
in a single layer in a buttered saut6-pan or baking- 
tin, season with pepper and salt, and a little lemon 
juice; sprinkle with white breadcrumbs, put a 
small piece of butter on each of the slices, and 

116 



STUFFED TOMATOES, GOURMET STYLE. 117 

bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Prepare 
some neatly shaped pieces of buttered toast, ctess 
the baked tomatoes upon these, dish up, and sauce 
over with the gravy left in the pan. 

TOMATOES, GBATIN STYLE. 

Tomates ait G-ratin. 

Scald some tomatoes, peel them, cut them in 
halves. Rub a gratin didi with a piece of garlic, 
butter it well, lay the tomatoes in the dish, season 
v?ith salt and pepper. Strew over them some fresh 
breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, and chopped 
mushrooms. Put a small piece of butter here and 
there, and bake in a brisk oven for about fifteen 
minutes. 

TOMATO FRITTERS. 

BeigneU de Tomates. 

Cut some peeled tomatoes into slices, season 
vyith pepper and salt, spread some potted meat, or 
forcemeat of tongue, ham, beef, or game, on one 
shce, cover with another. Dip the slices in a light 
batter, place them gently in a frying basket, and 
fry in hot fat. Drain, and dish up neatly. 
Garnish vdth fried parsley, and serve. 

STUFFED TOMATOES, GOURMET STYIiE. 

Tomates farcies a la Gourmet. 

Take six firm, ripe, even-sized tomatoes, cut 
off the tops ; scoop out the insides, rub the pulp 
through a fine wire sieve ; v?ith this prepare the 
stuffing, adding two ounces of fresh butter, three 
tablespoonfuls of fine white breadcrumbs, six 
finely chopped preserved mushrooms, and a httle 



ii8 VEGETABLE ENTREMETS AND SAVOURIES. 

chopped parsley or chives. Season with salt and 
pepper. Stir the mixture over the fire until w^arm 
through, then bind with two yolks of eggs and 
a little cream. 

Fill the tomatoes with the stuffing thus prepared. 
Place them side by side in a well-buttered saute- 
pan. Strew over some breadcrumbs, and bake them 
in a brisk oven for about fifteen minutes. Dish 
up, sauce round with piquante sauce, and serve. 

BAKED TOMATOES A L'AWGLAISE. 

Cut six tomatoes into halves, season them with 
pepper and salt. Place them in a buttered baking 
tin, sprinkle breadcrumbs over them, put small 
pieces of butter here and there on them. Bake in 
a hot oven for about twenty minutes. Dish up, and 
serve. 

TOMATOES, BErOEM STYLE. 

Tomates a la Eeforme. 

Cut some bacon, cooked ham, tongue, hard- 
boiled egg, and truffles, into fine strips about an 
inch long. Take some ripe, firm, and even-sized 
tomatoes, remove the stalks, and insert the strips 
of bacon. Place them side by side in a buttered 
saut^-pan, bake in a moderate oven till brown. 
Dish up in the form of a border, and put the strips 
of truffles, ham, and eggs in the centre, reheat, and 
sauce over with poivrade sauce. 

TOMATOES WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Tomates farcies aux Champignons. 

Ingbedients. — 4 firm ripe tomatoes, 12 pre- 
served mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue. 



TOMATO SAVOURY. 119 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful 
breadcrumbs (brown breadcrumbs or Panurette), 
J a well-beaten egg, 1 tablespoonful brown sauce, 
1 oz. butter, seasoning. 

Method. — ^Wipe the tomatoes, cut them into 
halves crossways, carefully remove the pulp and 
put it in a basin, chop finely the mushrooms and 
the ham or tongue, add these to the tomato pulp, 
together with' the parsley and breadcrumbs. 
Season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, 
mix well, and moisten with the egg and the brown 
sauce. Fill the tomatoes with this mixture, cover 
the surface with brown crumbs or Panurette 
(grated rusk), place a few bits of butter here and 
there on top of each. Eange the tomatoes on a 
well-buttered tin or saute-pan, and cook in a hot 
oven for about ten minutes. 



TOMATO SAVOUBY. 

Tomates aux fines Herbes. 

Scald six ripe tomatoes, remove the skin, place 
them in a buttered saute-pan, bake for fifteen 
minutes,andrub them through a wire sieve. Dissolve 
half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, in this fry two 
finely chopped shallots ; then add one ounce of 
finely chopped ham, one dessertspoonful of 
chopped parsley; next add the tomato puree, 
one ounce of fresh breadcrumbs, and one ounce of 
grated cheese. Stir all over the fire, season with 
salt, white pepper, and a dust of cayenne. Beat 
up two eggs, add this to the mixture, and stir until 
set. Serve on hot buttered toast, and sprinkle 
with grated cheese, and serve. 



I20 VEGETABLE ENTREMETS AND SAVOURIES. 

STirrrED potatoes. 

Pommes de Terre f aretes. 

Choose some even-sized, red-skinned kidney 
potatoes, boil them in their jackets, peel, and let 
them get cold. Shred some cold fish, pound it in a 
mortar with a piece of butter, a tablespoonful of 
cream, and a yolk of egg. Season with pepper 
and salt, add a little chopped parsley, and mix 
thoroughly. Cut the cold potatoes in halves length- 
ways, scoop out carefully a portion of each half, fill 
them with the prepared stuffing, and place two 
halves together. Dip them in frying batter, and 
fry in hot fat, drain on a cloth, dish up, garnish 
with crisp parsley, and serve hot. 

POTATO CROQUETS. 

Croquettes de Pommes de Terre. 

Wash, peel, and cut into quarters six or more 
small potatoes, boil, drain, and rub them through 
a sieve, return to the stewpan, and mix with a 
little milk or cream, a small piece of butter, and 
four yolks of eggs. Mix well, and season with salt, 
pepper, and grated nutmeg. Stir over the fire for 
a few minutes, and spread the pmree on a dish to 
cool. When cool enough, shape into croquets, 
ball or cork shapes. Eoll in white breadcrumbs ; 
dip each croquet in beaten egg, and crumb. Fry 
them a delicate brown in hot fat. Drain them on 
a cloth, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and 
serve. 

POTATOES, BOKNE-EEMME STYLE. 
Pommes de Terre a la Bonne-femme. 
Boil eight large-sized potatoes in theirjackets ; 



MIRETTE POTATOES. 



when cold, peel and cut them into slices. Put 
them in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, a pinch 
of sweet mixed herbs, and half a gill of milk; 
season with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, a little 
chopped parsley, and fried shallot. Cook gently 
for ten minutes, stirring from time to time to 
prevent burning. When ready for dishing up, 
squeeze the juice of half a lemon over the potatoes. 

POTATO SCALLOPS. 

Coquilles de Pmnmes de Terre. 

Wash, peel, and boil twelve potatoes, drain and 
rub through a wire sieve ; put them into a stew- 
pan. Stir in an ounce of butter, two tablespoonfuls 
of cream, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and 
three yolks of eggs ; season with pepper and salt, 
Butter some scallop shells, dust them with fine 
breadcrumbs, fill the shells with the potato mixture, 
smooth the top with a knife, brush over with 
oiled butter, cover with white breadcrumbs and 
grated cheese. Bake in a quick oven a dehcate 
brown, and dish up the shells. A piquante or 
poivrade sauce should be served separately with 
this dish. 

MIBBTTE POTATOES. 

Pommes de Terre Mirettes. 

Wash and peel four to six-potatoes, cut them 
into small squares or even-sized dice ; scald and 
drain them ; fry them a golden colour in clarified 
butter in a deep saut6-pan. Pour off the butter, 
and add a tablespoonful of liquified meat glaze or 
Liebig Company's Meat Extract. Season with a 
little salt, pepper, and a pinch of paprika. Have 
s. D. I 



122 VEGETABLE ENTREMETS AND SAVOURIES 

two truffles cut ready, shredded like julienne root, 
and mix these with the potatoes. Bange the whole 
in a buttered silver-plated souffle dish. Sprinkle 
the top with grated Parmesan cheese and a few 
drops of oiled butter, and bake in a sharp oven for 
five minutes. Serve very hot. 

POTATOES DONE IN DUTCH STYLE. 

Pommes de Terre a la Hollandaise. 

Select twelve or fourteen even-sized large new 
Dutch kidney potatoes, wash and brush them well, 
dry them, and bake them in a hot oven till almost 
done. Cut a small piece off the top of each potato, 
scoop out the interior without breaking the 
potatoes. Bub half of this through a sieve, and 
mix with an ounce of fresh butter, one dessert- 
spoonful of finely chopped parsley, and two large 
tablespoonfuls of double cream, season with salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg, mix well, and fill the cavities 
of the potatoes with this mixture. This is best 
effected by means of a forcing bag. Place the 
tops, previously removed, on each potato, put them 
on a baking sheet, and bake in a hot oven for 
about five minutes longer. Dish up, and serve 
very hot. 

SUBPEISE POTATOES, 

Pommes de Terre en Surprise. 

Select six to eight medium-sized potatoes, wash 
and drain them. Bake them in their jackets in a 
sharp oven. Gut off a piece of each lengthwise 
to form the cover, and scoop out the soft 
part of the inside. Bub about three parts of 
this through a fine sieve, and mix with a pat of 



STUFFED SAVOURY POTATOES. 123 



butter and some double cream ; season with salt, 
pepper and nutmeg. EefiU the potatoes, place on 
cover, and bake slowly for another ten minutes. 
If liked, a teaspoonful of game or other pur6e may 
be put in the centre of potatoes. 

POTATO TIMBALES. 

Butter some small timbale moulds, and sprinkle 
the interior completely with finely grated Parmesan 
cheese. Allow the moulds to stand on the ice for 
a few minutes, then fill with a mixture of potato 
puree and choux paste, well blended, naixed and 
seasoned. Ba>ke in the oven till nicely browned. 
Unmoidd, and send to table quickly. 

POTATO PANCAKES WITH CHEESE. 

CrSpes de Pomm^ de Terre au Fromage. 

Grate six large, raw, peeled potatoes, moisten 
with a gill of imlk, naix with three yolks of raw 
eggs, half an ounce of butter, and an ounce of 
breadcrumbs ; season with salt and pepper. Add 
a handful of grated cheese and a little flour ; make 
into a smooth batter. Fry in small lots in an 
omelet pan, with rather more butter than is 
generally used for pancakes. "When fried, sprinkle 
with grated Swiss or Cheddar cheese, fold them, 
and dish up on a folded napkin or dish paper. 

STUFFED SAVOURY POTATOES. 

Pommes de Terre farcies aux fines Herbes. 

"Wash and peel eight to ten medium-sized round 
potatoes, scoop out the centre of each, taking care 



124 VEGETABLE ENTREMETS AND SAVOURIES. 

not to break them. Next prepare a stuffing with 
a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, thyme, 
chives, and shallot ; season it with salt and pepper, 
moisten with a tablespoonful of cream and a yolk 
of egg. Fill the potatoes with this, place them in a 
buttered saut6-pan, brush over vrith oiled butter, 
and bake in a moderately heated oven for about 
twenty minutes. 

CURRIED POTATOES. 

Pommes de Terre au Kari. 

Cat up ten to twelve cold boiled potatoes; shce 
a large onion, and fry it in a little butter in a 
frying-pan vpith a teaspoonful of curry powder. 
Add the potatoes, season with salt, moisten 
with a httle stock, and the juice of half a 
lemon. Shake-the pan well over the fire, and stew 
for about fifteen minutes. Dish up in a border of 
plainly cooked rice. 

POTATO FRITTERS. 

Bdgnets de Pommes de Terre, 

Boil six good-sized potatoes, and rub through a 
sieve ; mix vdth a gill of milk, a little cream, three 
yolks of eggs, a handful of breadcrumbs, a table- 
spoonful of grated Cheddar cheese, a Uttle flour, a 
small piece of butter, and season with salt, pepper, 
and grated nutmeg. Mix thoroughly. Drop the 
mixture by means of a spoon into fat, and fry 
to a rich brown colour ; drain on a cloth, or shake 
well in a frying basket ; dish up on paper or 
napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. 



POTATO BONNE-BOUCHES. 125 - 

STEWED POTATOES 1. LA MAIBE. 

Pommes de Tetre a la Maire. 

For this dish choose eight to ten long, red-skinned 
potatoes ; wash and boil them in the usual way. 
Put a gill of cream into a stewpan, let it reduce 
over the fire to about half its quantity ; stir con- 
stantly during the time of reducing. Peel and 
slice the potatoes, and ^ut them into the cream ; 
let simmer whilst stirring gently with a wooden 
spoon, to prevent it from burning. Season v?ith 
salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Just before 
serving add a few small pieces of butter ; in doing 
this shake the stewpan well, so as to blend the 
potatoes thoroughly. Stir carefully, so as not to 
break the slices, otherwise the appearance of the 
dish ynll be spoilt. 

POTATO RISSOLES. 

Rissoles de Pommes de Terre. 

Wash, peel, and boil ten potatoes, drain, and rub 
them through a wire sieve. Place them in a basin, 
season vrith salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and 
add two yolks of eggs, a tablespoonful of cream, 
and a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. Beat up 
till smooth. Make up into rissole shapes, egg and 
crumb them, and fry in hot fat. Drain on a doth, 
dish up on a folded napkin or paper, garnish v?ith 
fried parsley, and serve. 

POTATO BONNE-BOUCHES. 

Bonnes- Bonches de Pommes de Terre. 

Cut some lean cooked ham into thin shces ; stamp 
these out into rounds about an inch and a half 



126 VEGETABLE ENTREMETS AND SAVOURIES. 

in diameter. Spread over both sides with a layer 
of prepared mashed potatoes, dip them in egg and 
breadcrumbs or frying batter ; fry them in hot fat 
or butter to a light brown colour ; drain on a cloth, 
dish up, and serve hot. 

SAVOURY POTATOES. 

Pommes de Terre a I'Allemande. 

Peel ten medium-sized potatoes, cut them into 
slices a quarter of an inch thick, parboil and drain 
them. Cut up two rashers of fat bacon into small 
pieces, fry these with a small chopped onion, dust 
with' a little flour, and stir over the fire until brown. 
Add a tablespoonful of cream, and enough white 
stock to make a smooth sauce. Season with 
pepper, salt, nutmeg, a pinch of thyme, marjoram, 
and a pinch of powdered bayleaf , Add the sUced 
potatoes, let them simmer until tender ; stir 
occasionally, but be careful, so as not to break the 
sUces. Just before serving stir in a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, turn out on to a dish, and serve. 

POTATO SAVOURY, ITALIAN STYLE. 

Pommes de Terre an Fromage a Vltalienne. 

Wash, peel, and boil two pounds of potatoes, 
and pass them through a sieve. Sift four ounces 
of flour into a basin, add the potato puree, and 
mix with an ounce of butter, one ounce of grated 
cheese, and seasoning. Shape into balls, and lay 
them on a sieve to dry. Have ready some salted 
boiling water, drop in the potato shapes, a few at 
a time, and boil for fifteen minutes. When done, 
remove, drain, dish up, sprinkle with grated 



MUSHROOM CRO&TES. 127 



cheese, pour over some oiled butter and a few fried 
breadcrumbs, bake for ten minutes, and serve. 

DEVIIiIiED MUSHBOOMS IN CASES. 
Champiffnans en Caissi's a la Diable. 

Wipe and peel six cup mushrooms, cut them 
into small dice, and toss in butter. Butter some 
souffle paper cases, lay a thin slice of lemon in 
each, three parts fiU with mushrooms, and season 
to taste. Spread a layer of potted devilled meat, 
mixed with a yolk of egg, over the mushrooms ; 
brush over with oiled butter, and bake for fifteen 
minutes. Just before dishing up put a tablespoon- 
ful of stiff mayonnaise sauce on top of each case, 
sprinkle with cayenne, and serve quickly. 

MUSHBOOMS ON TOAST. 
Champignons siir Crovtans. 

Choose twelve cup mushrooms, cut off the 
root ends, peel them, dip in butter and grill them. 
Season witti pepper and salt. Have ready twelve 
rounds of toasted bread, a trifle larger than mush- 
rooms ; butter these well, place a thm sUce of lemon 
on each, dress the mushrooms on them, dish up, 
garnish with sprigs of parsley or watercress, and 
serve. 

MUSHBOOM CBO^TES. 
CrotUes de Champigwrns. 

Cut some slices of white bread, stamp out rounds 
or oblongs with a fancy or plain cutter, fry them 
in butter to a golden colour, and drain. Have 
ready a pint of button mushrooms, peeled and 



128 VEGETABLE ENTREMETS AND SAVOURIES. 

fried in butter ; also a mixture of finely chopped 
beef and ham, moistened with a rich brown sauce. 
When quite hot, spread the mixture over the 
crodtes, place a mushroom on each ; season with 
pepper, salt, cayenne, and a little lemon juice. 
Place them in a hot oven for a few minutes, dish 
up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. 

SAVOIXBT MUSHROOMS. 

Champignons aux fines Herbes. 

Select a dozen even-sized cup mushrooms, peel, 
wash, and drain them ; put them in a basin on the 
side of the stove, season with two tablespoonfuls 
of olive oil, salt, pepper, and a Mttle lemon juice. 
After they have been standing for an hour, broil 
them in a saute-pan with a little butter, or grill 
them over the fire. When done, dish up on pieces 
of toasted bread. Prepare a sauce consisting of 
oiled butter, chopped parsley, and chives, pour 
over the mushrooms, dish up, and garnish to taste. 

MUSHBOOM BOUCH^ES. 

Peel and wash small button mushrooms, cut 
them into slices, drain, and fry them lightly in 
butter. Season to taste, and moisten with Madeira 
sauce. Simmer for a few minutes, and fill into 
bouchee cases, or, if preferred, some light puff-paste 
shells. Place a glazed button mushroom on top of 
each patty to form the lid. Dish up, and serve hot. 

MUSHBOOMS, PAEISIAW STYLE. 

Champignons a la Paridenne. 

Wash and trim (turn) twelve cup mushrooms, 
and dry them quickly on a cloth. Put one ounce of 



EGG PLANT OR VEGETABLE MARROW A U GRATIN. 129 

buitter in a saute-pan over the fire ; when hot, add 
one tablespoonful of finely chopped onions, and one 
teaspoonf ul of chopped parsley. Stir a few minutes, 
and put in the mushrooms ; allow them to fry on 
both sides till done. Season with salt, pepper, and 
cayenne, and serve on pieces of toasted bread. 

VEGETABLE MAREOW FRITTERS. 

Peel one or two green marrows, take out the 
seeds, and stuff them tightly with a salpicon made 
of equal proportions of cold ham, tongue, beef, or 
any other kind of cold meat ; bind with a little 
sauce, and season with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, 
thyme, and marjoram. Cut the stuffed marrows 
into sUces, about half an inch in thickness; dip 
these in egg and crumb in finely crushed water 
biscuit or ordinary breadcrumbs ; fry in hot fat or 
clarified butter, drain on a cloth, dish up on paper 
or folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and 
serve. 

EGG PLANT OR VEGETABLE MARROW 
AIT GRATIN. 

Aubergines an Oratin. 

Parboil two green marrows or French aubergines, 
cut them in fom:, lengthwise, and drain them on a 
sieve. Eub a gratin dish, or baking tin, with a 
piece of garlic, and butter well. Place the pieces 
of marrow neatly on the dish, season with pepper, 
salt, and a little grated nutmeg ; sauce over with 
bechamel sauce. Sprinkle over with breadcrumbs 
and grated Parmesan cheese ; put a few tiny pieces 
of butter here and there upon them. Bake in a 
brisk oven for twenty minutes, and serve. 



I30 VEGETABLE ENTREMETS AND SAVOURIES. 

SAVOURY VEGBTABfiB MABBOW. 

Gourge a la Prorengale, 

Peel a marrow, cut it into convenient pieces, 
place tkem in a stewpan with half a sliced onion, 
spread over with butter, and season with pepper, 
salt, grated nutmeg, and a pinch of castor sugar. 
Moisten ynth a little white stock and white sauce, 
and cook till tender. Beduce the sauce to a glaze, 
add a pat of butter, a little lemon juice, sprinkle 
with chopped parsley, dish up, and serve. 

VBGETABLB MABBOW WITH CHBBSE. 

Peel two green marrows, not too large in size ; 
cut them lengthvsdse into quarters, scoop out the 
seedy parts, place them in a saute-pan with an 
ounce of butter, season with salt, pepper, and 
grated nutmeg. Put the pan on the fire for a 
quarter of an hour, shaking it from time to time ; 
moisten with a Uttle cream, and add a tablespoonful 
of grated Parmesan cheese. Dish up the marrow 
neatly on an oblong dish; sprinkle with bread- 
crumbs and Parmesan cheese ; place in a hot oven 
for a few minutes, and serve with piquante sauce 
poured round the dish. 

CUCUMBEBS A LA MAITBE D'HOTEL. 

Goncomhres a la Maitre d' Hotel. 

Peel thinly two cucumbers; cut them into 
rounds about a quarter of an inch thick ; put them 
in a basin, with two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and 
a small quantity of salt. Let them remain for a 
few hours ; then take them up, put the pieces in 



CUCUMBER CROUSTADE. CORDON ROUGE. 131 



a stewpan, with an ounce of butter; season with 
pepper, grated nutmeg, and a pinch of sugar. 
Cook over a steady fire until they are tender ; pour 
off a Httle of the butter, add two tablespoonfuls of 
white sauce; simmer again for a few minutes. 
Dish up the cucumbers ; bind the sauce with two 
yolks of eggs, stir in a little cream, the juice of 
half a small lemon, and a dessertspoonful of chopped 
parsley. Pour the sauce over the dish, garnish 
with croAtons of bread orjleurons, and serve. 

STUFFED CXTCUMBBa. 

Goncomhres farch a la Demi-glace. 

Remove the rind of two large cucumbers, cut 
them into pieces three inches in length; stamp 
out carefully the centre of each by means of a 
round cutter. Fill them vdth a stt&ng made of 
cooked beef or veal Emd ham, finely minced, bread- 
crumbs, and an egg ; season vnth salt, pepper, 
chopped parsley, basU, and thyme. Wrap each in 
a tmn sKce of bacon, tie v?ith strmg, and 
cook gently in a stev?pan, vdth a Uttle stock, until 
quite tender. Take up, drain on a cloth, and trim the 
ends. Prepare a border of mashed potatoes on a 
round dish ; arrange the pieces " en couronne " on 
the border, or else in the centre, in the form of a 
pyramid. Sauce over vdth a reduced demi-glace 
or other brown sauce, into which a little chopped 
and blanched parsley and chervil has been 
incorporated. 

CTTCUMBEB CROUSTADE, CORDON ROUGE. 

Croustade de Concombres a la Cordon rouge. 

Cut half a loaf of bread into the shape of a 
croustade, about three inches high, fry it and set 



132 VEGETABLE ENTREMETS AND SAVOURIES. 

on a dish. Peel two large cucumbers, cut into 
pieces about two inches long, split them, scoop 
out the centre parts, place them in a stewpan with 
an ounce of butter and season with pepper, salt, 
grated nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of castor sug^r. 
Moisten with white stock, sufficient to cover, and 'let 
it simmer gently for half an hour. Dress the 
cucumber in the croustade, add two tablespoonfuls 
of bichamel sauce, the juice of half a lemon, and 
a little cream ; boil up, bind with a yolk of egg, 
and strain over the msh, sprinkle with chopped 
parsley, and serve. 

BRAISED CUCUMBER WITH BEEP 
MARROW. 

Concombres braisSs a la Modle de Basuf. 

Peel and prepare a cucumber the same as for 
stuffing ; place in the cavity of each piece a long 
piece of marrow fat and cover with a little force- 
meat or bacon. Braise till tender, glaze the 
surface, dish up, garnish with thin lemon slices, 
and sprinkle with parsley. 

CABBAGE AU GRATIN. 

Choux an Oratin. 

Parboil a young cabbage, properly trimmed and 
washed ; drain it well in a cullender and shape it. 
Butter around gratin dish, line it with thin slices of 
boiled bacon, and put the cabbage upon the bacon. 
Season with salt and pepper. Mask with thick 
white sauce, sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese 
and breadcrumbs ; place some little bits of butter 
here and there on top, and bake to a light brown 
colour in a sharp oven. Serve in the gratin dish. 



HARICOT BEANS, MAtTRE D'hOtEL. 133 

SAVOURY CABBAGE. 

CJionx farcis a V Espagnole. 

Trim and wash a young cabbage; scoop out 
the base, blanch it, and stuff with a well-seasoned 
meat and breadcrumbs stuffing ; place it in a stew- 
pan lined with bacon, moisten with Espagnole 
sauce, and braise till tender. When cooked, take 
it out and press the cabbage into shape. Dish 
up, cover with reduced Espagnole sauce, sprinkle 
some bread raspings over, garnish with slices of 
lemon and grilled cup mushrooms, and serve. 

CABBAGE LETTUCE, AMEBICAN STYLE. 

Laitues farcies a V Americaine. 

Take two firm cabbage-lettuces ; trim and wash 
them and blanch them. Have ready some minced 
veal and ham, seasoned with pepper, salt, and 
finely chopped onions ; open the lettuces carefully, 
insert the mixture between the leaves. Tie up 
each lettuce and brush over with egg, cover with 
breadcrumbs. Arrange the kttuces in a well- 
buttered saute-pan, cook them in a hot oven for 
twenty minutes. Dish up, and pour tomato sauce 
round the base of the dish. 

HARICOT BEANS, MaItRE D'h6tEL. 

Haricots hlancs a la Mattre d' Hotel. 

Blanch and boil a pint of beans. When tender, 
drain them ; melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, 
add the beans and season with salt and pepper. 
When warm through add some chopped parsley ; 



134 VEGETABLE ENTREMETS AND SAVOURIES 



thicken with a little white sauce and flavour with 
lemon juice. Shake well over the fire for a few 
minutes, dish up, and serve. 

Dried haricot beans are as a rule better if put to 
soak in cold water for at least twenty-four hours 
before cooking. 

SAVOURY BBOAD-BEANS. 

Fh>ea de Marais aux fines Herbes. 

Shell a quart of young broad-beans ; boil them 
directly they are shelled for ten minutes in salt 
water, drain them on a sieve, put them in a saut^- 
pan with an ounce of butter and two tablespoonfuls 
of white sauce ; season with salt, pepper, and a 
pinch of castor sugar, add some chopped parsley 
and tarragon. Let them simmer gently till the 
beans are tender. Dish up, garnish with fleurons 
or bread croAtons, and serve. 

SAVOURY LENTILS, 

Lentilles fricagsSes. 

Soak a quart of lentils for two hours in tepid 
water ; drain and put them in a stewpan with two 
ounces of butter for ten minutes, and add about 
three pints of stock, season with a little salt and 
pepper, and boil them for two hours. Drain them 
on a sieve, put them in a stewpan with two pats 
of butter and some chopped onions previously 
fried. Moisten with b^hamel sauce and a table- 
spoonful of cream and cook for a few minutes 
longer, stirring the lentils from time to time. 
Dish up, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. 



JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES WITH ONIONS. 135 



CAULIFLOWBH. AU GKATIN. 

Cliou-fleur au Oratin. 

Take a cooked cauliflower, remove the outside 
leaves, press it into a small bowl, so as to shape it 
neatly. Butter a round gratin dish, place the 
cauliflower upon it, cover with a thick layer of cold 
bechamel or other white sauce ; season with salt 
and pepper, strew over thickly with grated Gruy^re 
cheese and breadcrumbs. Place a few small bits 
of butter here and there, and bake in the oven 
a light brown colour. 

CAULIPIiOWEES WITH CHEESE. 

■ Choiix-fleurs au Parmesan. 

Trim and boil two small cauliflowers ; when 
tender, drain and divide them into small pieces, 
place them in a stewpan with some bechamel 
sauce, a tablespoonful of cream and a handful of 
grated Parmesan cheese ; season with salt, pepper, 
grated nutmeg and a little cayenne. Let it simmer 
for a few minutes, then add a yolk of egg, the 
juice of half a small lemon ; dish up neatly, and 
sprinkle over with grated Gruyfere cheese and 
breadcrumbs ; brown the top lightly under a hot 
salamander, and serve. 

JBRTJSALEM ARTICHOKES WITH ONIONS. 

Topinambours a la Lyonnaise, 

Take about two dozen even-sized Jerusalem 
artichokes ; wash and peel them, and boil in salt 
water. Add a piece of butter whilst cooking. 
"Wben done, drain on a sieve, heat them up in a stew- 



136 VEGETABLE ENTREMETS AND SAVOURIES. 

pan with some demi-glace or other brown sauce 
and flavour with lemon juice and add the thin 
sUces of an onion, fried. Let simmer on the fire 
for a few minutes, add a Httle chopped parsley 
and seasoning, and stir frequently. Dish them 
up in the form of a pyramid, sauce over with the 
sauce well reduced, and serve. 

JBBUSALEM ARTICHOKES, ITALIAN 
STYLE. 

Topinamhours a I'ltalicnne. 

Wash about two dozen artichokes, turn them 
in the shape of small pears, put them in a buttered 
sautd-pan ; season with pepper, salt, nutmeg and 
lemon juice; moisten with a little Stock, cover, 
and let them simmer for half an hour. The gravy 
should be boiled down to a glaze ; add sufficient 
Itahan sauce ; boil up. Dish up the artichokes, 
sauce over, and serve. 

ABTICHOKB BOTTOMS, BOBDELAISB. 

Fonds d'Artichauts a la Bordelaise. 

Place twelve cooked artichoke bottoms in a 
circular order in a well-buttered saut6-pan ; season 
them vrith pepper, salt and lemon juice, and let 
thena get hot through. Have ready a Bordelaise 
garniture prepared as follows. Cut about a dozen 
large peeled button onions into rings, fry them in 
a stewpan with a httle sweet oil ; pour off the oil, 
and add half a pint of bdchamel sauce, a piece of 
meat glaze, a dozen stoned ohves, and six filleted 
anchovies cut in dice. Simmer gently, season 
with pepper and a little cayenne. Fill the 



JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES AU GRATIN. 137 

artichokes with this, dish them up, sprinkle over 
some chopped parsley, and serve. 

ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS WITH BRUSSEL- 

SPBOUTS. 

Fonds d'Artichants a la Bruxdloise. 

Prepare some artichoke bottoms, as in the last 
recipe. Choose a quantity of small cooked sprouts, 
moisten with maitre d'h6tel sauce, season and 
warm up in a stewpan ; fill the artichoke bottoms 
with this. Season with salt, cayenne, and lemon 
juice. Dish up and pour a little white sauce 
round the dish. 

GIiOBE ABTICHOEIES A LA COLBEBT. 

Trim the green artichokes, wash and parboil 
them in salted water. Drain, cut them into 
quarters and arrange in a buttered saut^pan. 
Season with pepper, etc. ; moisten with a Uttle 
Chabhs or Sauteme wine, and braise in the oven. 
Dish up and pour Colbert sauce over, serve hot. 

AETICHOKE BOTTOMS WITH EGGS. 
Fonds d'ArtkJuiuts aux (Eufs. 

Trim, blanch and boil tUl tender six or eight 
artichoke bottoms, drain and place each (hoUow 
side up) on a round of fried bread. Keep hot, 
fry six or eight eggs in butter, trim and place them 
in the fonds. Sprinkle with chopped truffle, and 
serve hot. 

JEBnSAIiEM ABTICHOEES AIT GBATIN. 

Slice up some cooked Jerusalem artichokes and 
range them on a buttered gratin dish with alternate 
S. P. 5 



138 VEGETABLE ENTREMETS AND SAVOURIES. 

layers of grated cheese and bechamel sauce; 
sprinkle the top with breadcrumbs and grated 
Parmesan. Add a little butter here and there and 
bake in a sharp oven till browned. 

AETICHOKES WITH POIE-GRAS. 

Fonds d' Artichauts AUacienne. 

Drain some artichoke bottoms (cooked) and fill 
them with a pur^e of foie-gras and truffles ; coat 
well with a rich well-reduced white sauce, sprinkle 
with breadcrumbs and brown in oven. 

ABTICHOKE FRITTERS. 

BdgneU d' Artichauts. 

Cut some cooked artichoke bottoms into slices, 
and season with oil, vinegar, salt and pepper, and 
chopped parsley. Dip the pieces (drained) in 
frying batter. Fry in hot fat. 

ARTICHOKE SOUPPLBS. 

Mix a pound of Jerusalem artichoke pur^e 
with one of breadcrumbs, the yolks of four 
eggs ; season with mustard, salt, and pepper, and 
stir in the stiff whites of two eggs. Drop in 
spoonfuls into hot fat and fry a golden brown, 
or fill into small souffle cases and bake in sharp 
oven from ten to fifteen minutes. 

ARTICHOKE CHIPS. 

Peel some Jerusalem artichokes, cut them into 
very thin sUces (chips), place in salted water 
flavoured with lemon juice for about an hour. 
Take up, drain, and dry, then fry a few at a time 



SAVTk OF FRENCH BEANS. 139 

in very hot deep fat. Drain, shake in a basket or 
napkin, and dredge with fine salt. 

FBENCH B£AI9^S WITH FIITE HERBS. 
Haricots verts aua-Jiius Herbes. 

Take a quantity of small cooked French beans, 
melt a piece of butter in a stewpan, add two 
chopped shallots, two tablespoonfuls of chopped 
parsley and chives, and fry Ughtly ; put in the 
beans, season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. 
Toss the whole over a brisk &re until the beans 
get thoroughly hot, dish them up, and send to 
table. 

SAVOTTBY FRENCH BEANS, POUT.ETTE. 
Haricots rcrts a la Poulette. 

String, cut and boil a pound of French beans ; 
when done, drain them on a sieve ; then put in a 
stewpan with two pats of butter; season with 
salt, pepper, sugar, some chopped green onions or 
chives, previoudy Med. Toss all over the fire for a 
few minutes, add half a pint of bechamel sauce ; 
let simmer for ten minutes. Just before dishing 
up add three tablespoonfuls of cream and two 
yolks of eggs, to bind ; stir until it begins to thicken, 
dish up, sprinkle with finely chopped parsley, and 
serve. 

NoTB. — Flageolets and haricot beans are 
particularly nice if done in this style. 

SAUTE OP FEENCH BEANS. 
Haricots verts sauth aii Beurre. 

Melt two ounces of fresh butter in a saute-pan, 
put in a pound of small young cooked beans ; 

K3 



I40 VEGETABLE ENTREMETS AND SAVOURIES. 

season with salt and pepper. Toss them over a 
brisk fire until thoroughly hot ; dress them on a 
dish in a pile, sprinkle with finely chopped par- 
boiled parsley, and serve. 



SAVOUEY PEAS WITH HAM. 

Petits Pois au Jamhon. 

BoU and drain a quart of young peas ; mince 
coarsely two rashers of raw ham, and fry for five 
minutes with a small piece of butter. Add two 
small green onions, finely minced, and the peas ; 
moisten vdth three tablespoonfuls of bdchamel 
sauce, two of cream, and season with salt, pepper, 
and a pinch of castor sugar. Let all simmer for 
a few minutes longer, turn out on a dish, garnish 
with crotitons, and serve. 



GBEEN PEAS WITH LETTUCE. 

Petits Pois aux Laitues a la Franqaise. 

Boil a quart of young peas, strain off the water, 
and put the peas in a stewpan with an ounce of 
butter. Add a firm cabbage lettuce, cut up finely, 
a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and a tea- 
spoonful of castor sugar ; season with salt, pepper, 
and finely chopped green mint. Cover the stew- 
pan, and let all simmer gently for ten minutes. 
Mix a dessertspoonful of flour with two pats of 
fresh butter, put this in vidth the peas ; mix well 
over the fire for a few minutes whilst shaking ; 
dish up, garnish with fleurons or crotitons, and 
serve. 



CARROTS A LA MAtTRE D'h6tEL. 141 

GREEN PEAS A LA. PRAN9AISE. 

Petits Pois SitcrSs a la Franqaise. 

Take a quart of cooked peas, prepare them in 
the same manner as above described, leaving out 
the lettuce. When done, add a dessertspoonful of 
liquid meat glaze or " Lemco " meat extract, finish 
with a pat of butter mixed to a paste with a Uttle 
flour ; dish up, and dust with an extra quantity of 
castor sugar ; sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, 
and serve. 

SAVOURY CARROTS. 

Carottes aux fines Herbes. 

Dissolve an ounce of butter in a stewpan, add a 
tablespoonful of flour, a httle chopped parsley, and 
some minced shallots. Prepare a quart of partly 
cooked young French carrots cut into small cubes ; 
put these in the stewpan, cook gently for a few 
minutes, stirring from time to time. Then add a 
pint of gravy or stock ; season with salt, pepper, 
grated nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon. 
Cover closely, and simmer until the carrots are 
quite tender ; dish up, garnish vrith sippets of fried 
bread, and serve. 

CARROTS A LA MAItRE D'H6tEL. 

Wash and scrape a bunch of young carrots, cut 
them lengthwise into quarters, and boil in salted 
water till tender. Drain them, and put them in a 
stewpan v?ith an ounce of butter; saut6 them 
quickly over the fire ; add a dessertspoonful of 
chopped parsley and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 
Shake the pan over the fire for some minutes. 
Season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of castor 



142 VEGETABLE ENTREMETS AND SAVOURIES. 



sugar. Just before serving add a teaspoonful of 
liquid meat glaze, or " Lemco " meat extract. 

YOUNG CARROTS WITH WHITE SAUCE. 

Carottes nouveUea a I'Allemcmde, 

Trim a bunch of spring carrots, wash and boil 
them for ten minutes in salt water, strain in a 
cullender. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, 
put in the carrots and fry for a few minutes. Add 
half a pint of stock and a small quantity of 
Allemande sauce ; season with salt, pepper, and a 
dessertspoonful of castor sugar ; boil till the carrots 
are done, whilst shaking the pan occasionally. 
Dish up the carrots in the form of a dome. 
Eeduce the sauce, add a dessertspoonful of meat 
glaze, and bind with a yolk of egg, strain over the 
dish ; sprinkle with chopped hard-boiled yolks of 
eggs, garnish with fleurons, and serve. 

ASPARAGUS POINTS WITH PINE HERBS. 

Pointes d'Asperges aux fines Herbes. 

Boil a quart of green asparagus points in salted 
water. When done plunge in cold water, and 
drain them on a sieve. Melt an ounce of butter 
in a saute-pan; add a finely chopped sh?illot and 
some chopped parsley, and fry. Put in the aspara- 
gus ; season vyith pepper, grated nutmeg, and 
sugar ; moisten with some white sauce, and let all 
simmer gently for a quarter of an hour. Just 
before serving bind with two yolks of eggs, stir 
untU the eggs begin to set, and turn out on dish ; 
garnish round with fried bread crofitons, and 
serve. 



STEWED CELERY, MAItRE D'H6TEL. 143 



BRAISED CELERY, ESPAGNOLE. 

Celeri braise a V Espagnole. 

Wash and trim four heads of white celery, cut 
them into pieces about four inches long, parboil 
them and steep in cold water, then drain them 
on a sieve. Line a stewpan with slices of fat 
bacon, place the celery on these, moisten with a 
Uttle stock, and season with pepper and salt. Set 
them to braise gently for half an hour, add some 
brown sauce (Espagnole), and finish cooking over 
a slow fire for another twenty minutes. Mean- 
while prepare some smaU round hoUow bread 
croAtons, fill them with chicken forcemeat or beef 
marrow, and brush over with liquid meat glaze. 
Dress the celery in the centre of a dish and garnish 
round with the prepared croutons. Eeduce the 
sauce to a glaze, add a piece of butter, and the 
juice of half a small lemon. Pour this over the 
celery, and serve. 

FRIED CELERY, DRESDEN STYLE. 

Celeri frit a la Dresde. 

Prepare four heads of celery, and braise as 
above described ; finish by masking the celery in 
some reduced Allemande sauce. Set the pieces 
separately on a dish to cool ; when cold dip the 
pieces in a light batter, and fry them in hot fat. 
Drain them on a cloth, dish up on a round dish 
and garnish. Serve with a boat of tomato sauce. 

STEWED CELERY, MAItRE D'HOTEL. 

Celeri a la ilattre d' Hotel, 

Trim four heads of celery, cut them into pieces 
about four or five inches long, wash them and 



144 VEGETABLE ENTREMETS AND SAVOURIES. 

blanch them in boiling water. Blanch also four 
small onions, place them in a stewpan with the 
celery ; season with salt and pepper ; add a little 
white stock, and stew gently till tender. Dress 
the celery upon pieces of toasted bread on a dish, 
garnish with the boiled onions, reduce the stock to 
a glaze, add an equal quantity of white sauce, a 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 'one of cream, 
and a little sugar ; boil up and sauce over the 
celery. 

SAVOURY SALSIFY, 

Salsifis aux fines Herbes. 

Scra,pe about twenty heads of salsify, cut them 
into pieces about two inches long, sprinkle them 
with salt, and steep in water and milk. Cut a 
small onion, half a carrot, half a turnip, and half a 
head of celery, into small pieces ; put these in a 
stewpan with a quarter of a pound of lean bacon 
cut into pieces. Cook for twenty minutes. Mix 
an ounce of flour with a little milk and stir in, fill 
up with a quart of stock or water, stir and bring 
it to boil, put in the salsify, and let them simmer 
gently until tender. Add a tablespoonful of cream, 
one of chopped parsley, and a little lemon juice ; 
season with pepper, grated nutmeg, and castor 
sugar. Boil up, dress the salsify neatly on a dish, 
garnish with button mushrooms, sauce over, and 
serve. 

SALSIPY PKITTEBS. 

Salsifis frits. 

Prepare the salsify as described in the foregoing 
recipe. When done drain them on a cloth, put the 
pieces in a basin, with two tablespoonfuls of oil to 



BEETROOT FRITTERS. 143 

one of vinegar. Season with pepper and grated 
nutmeg ; allow them to remain in the seasoning 
for an hour. Take out, drain, and dip them in 
frying batter ; fry them in hot fat. Drain, and dish 
up on a folded napkin ; garnish with fried parsley, 
and serve. 

SCOLLOPED SALSIFY. 

Coquilles de Sahifls. 

Scrape a bundle of salsify, cut them into pieces 
about an inch and a half long, steep them in 
vinegar and water as they are being done. Boil 
them in salted water until tender, and drain them 
on a sieve. Melt an ounce of butter and fry them 
over a quick fire, season with grated nutmeg and 
Krona pepper ; add half a gill of cream and a 
dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, also one tea- 
spoonful of anchovy sauce, and mix well. Fill up 
some buttered scollop shells, strew over with 
breadcrumbs, sprinkle with a few drops of lemon 
juice and some oUed butter. Bake in a hot oven 
for fifteen minutes, dish up, and serve. 

BEETROOT FRITTERS. 

Beignets de Betteraves. 

BoU a large beetroot, also a large peeled Spanish 
onion. When done, remove the skin of the beet- 
root, and cut into thin rounds ; stamp these out 
into even-sized rounds, and place them on a dish. 
Season with a little vinegar, salt, and pepper. 
Chop finely the boiled onion, moisten with a little 
thick bechamel sauce ; spread the slices of beetroot 
on one side with this. Put two slices together, 
hke sandwiches, press them lightly, dip them in 
frying batter, and drop one by one into boiling fat 



146 VEGETABLE ENTREMETS AND SAVOURIES. 

or lard. Fry for five minutes, drain on a cloth, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper ; dish up, and 
garnish with parsley. 

STEWED BEETROOTS IN SAUCE. 

Betteraves m Ragout, 

Bake two beetroots in the oven until tender; 
when cold, remove the skin, and cut them into 
slices. Put them in a stewpan, pour over a little 
vinegar and some stock or gravy. Season with 
pepper and salt, and simmer gently for half an 
hour. Pour off the gravy and reduce it to a glaze, 
add a few slices of beetroot, well poimded in a 
mortar, and two tablespoonfuls of brown sauce. 
Boil up for a few minutes ; mix these with the 
sliced beetroot, heat carefully and dish up, garnish 
with fleurons or fried bread croltons, and serve. 

CABDOONS, SPANISH STYLE. 

Gardons a I'Espagnole, 

Wash and trim some cardoons, cut them iiito 
pieces about four inches long, and boil them in salted 
water. When done, drain them in a sieve, put them 
in a stewpan with enough brown sauce (Espagnole) 
to cover. Season with pepper and simmer 
gently for about twenty minutes ; flavour with a 
little lemon juice. Dress the pieces neatly on 
toasted bread. Dish up, sauce over with the sauce 
well reduced, and serve. 

CARDOONS, MAItRE D'HOTEL STYLE, 
Cardans a la Maitre d'Hdtel. 

Wash, trim, and cut into convenient pieces 
some cardoons and cook as above. Let them 



SORREL WITH POACHED EGGS. 147 

simmer for some time in maitre d'h6tel sauce. 
Dish up ; sauce over well, sprinkle with a little 
chopped parsley ; garnish with fleurons, and serve. 

PRIED CABDOONS. 

Cardans frits. 

These are prepared and cooked in the same way as 
before described. When cooked, drain them on a 
cloth, season with pepper, cayenne, lemon juice, 
and chopped parsley. Then dip them one by 
one in frying batter, and fry in hot fat. Drain, 
dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with fried 
parsley, and sei^e. 

SPINACH, FRENCH STYLE. 

Epinards a la Frangaise, 

Pick, wash, and boil two pounds of spinach in 
the usual way. Drain and rub it through a wire 
sieve and put it in a stewpan with an ounce of fresh 
butter. Stir over the fire for a few minutes, dredge 
with flour, season vnth salt, pepper, a little sugar, 
and grated nutmeg. Let all simmer gently whilst 
stirring for ten minutes. After taking it off the 
fire, add a httle cream, dish up, garnish round the 
dish with croltons of fried bread, and serve. 

SORREL WITH POACHED EGGS. 

Osdlles aux (Eufs pocJiSs. 

Sorrel, like spinach, is not often served as a 
savoury or entremet, though both make a nice and 
welcome change as second course dishes. 

To prepare sorrel as above described, pick, wash. 



148 VEGETABLE ENTREMETS AND SAVOURIES. 

and drain a sufficient quantity of sorrel to make a 
dish. Put it in a stewpan with an ounce of butter. 
Stir over the fire for a few minutes and cook till 
tender, then rub through a wire sieve. Eeturn 
to the stewpan, season with salt and pepper, and 
add a Uttle flour mixed with butter to a paste, 
moisten with brown sauce, and let all simmer for 
fifteen minutes. Dish up. Have ready some 
poached eggs ; trim these and dress them upon the 
top of the sorrel. Place a few fleurons round the 
dish, sprinkle over a few drops of liquid glaze, and 
serve. 

TRUFFLES IN CRUSTS. 

Groiites aux Truffes. 

If fresh truffles are used, wash and scrub them 
with a hard brush, to get them thoroughly clean. 
Soak six large truffles in warm water for two 
hours, peel them thinly with a small sharp knife, 
and cut them into thm sUces. Put them in a 
saute-pan with an ounce of fresh butter. Season 
vdth salt, pepper, and cayenne. Flavour with 
half a glass of sherry or Madeira, and let simmer 
gently for half an hour, then moisten with some 
rich demi-glace. Cut a French roU in two length- 
wise, scoop out the soft part, fry them a light 
colour in clarified butter, and drain, place them 
on a dish, mask the inside with dissolved meat 
glaze, put in the truffles and the sauce, dish up, 
and serve. 

TRUFFLES SAUTE, METROPOLE. 

Truffes sautSes a la Metropole. 

Line a saut6-pan with a few thin slices of fat 
bacon, flavour with slices of carrots, turnips. 



TRUFFLES, CAR&ME STYLE. 149 

onions, bay leaf, parsley, cloves, and thyme. Put 
in some large peeled truffles, moisten with some 
white stock and a glass of champagne ; cover over 
and let it simmer gently for half an hour. Take 
out the truffles, dish them neatly on a croustade 
of bread, reduce the liquor, skim off the fat, and 
strain over the truffles. Season with a little 
ground mace, pepper and salt, just before serving. 

TEUPPLES IN CRUST A L'lTALIElfNE. 

Cut out a nice croustade of bread, fry it a light 
colour, place it on a dish. Prepare some sliced 
truffles, the same as for truffles in crusts, add some 
white sauce (supreme or bechamel) ; dress them 
in the croustade. Sprinkle with liquid glaze, and 
serve. 

TEUPPLES, CAEilME STYLE. 

Truffes farcies a la CarSme, 

Choose six large preserved Perigord truffles, let 
them simmer for ten minutes in a little white 
stock and champagne ; take out the truffles to get 
cool. Scoop out the interior, which chop finely 
with half as many mushrooms, and mix with some 
forcemeat to form a stuffing; fill the shells of 
truffles with it, season them vsdth salt and pepper. 
Egg them all over, and crumb in a mixture of 
chopped truffles and chopped ham. Place them 
in a buttered saut6-pan, pour over the stock left, 
let them simmer gently for half an hour. Dish 
up the truffles on a croustade of fried bread, or in 
the centre of a round deep dish in the form of a 
pyramid. Reduce the hquor to a glaze, adding a 
little demi-glace. Sauce over and serve. 



150 VEGETABLE ENTREMETS AND SAVOURIES. 

DEVILLED OLIVES. 

Olives a la Diable. 

Stone some large Spanish olives, stujQF them with 
anchovy paste. Spread some small whole-meal or 
charcoal biscuits with anchovy paste, brush over 
with oiled butter ; place the olives in circular rows 
on the biscuits (three or four on each), season with 
pepper and plenty of cayenne. Place them on a 
buttered saut6-pan in the oven for ten minutes, and 
dish up on a folded napkin. Garnish with parsley, 
and serve very hot. 

PUMPKIlf WITH PARMESAN CHEESE, 

Potiron au Parmesan. 

Peel a small pumpkin, cut it in two and remove 
the seedy part, steep in salt water for half an hoTu:, 
take out and drain. Cut as many slices as may be 
required (the remainder will keep in salt water) ; 
melt some fresh butter in a stewpan, put in the 
slices, season vsdth a httle salt, pepper and aromatic 
spice ; fry for a few minutes. Dish up on a 
buttered gratin dish, sprinkle the topthickly with 
grated Parmesan cheese, some fresh breadcrumbs, 
and a few small bits of butter. Bake in a hot oven 
for ten minutes, and serve. 

STEWED OEBA WITH TOMATOES. 

Prepare and boil eight or ten okra pods and put 
them to drain. Mince finely half a small onion or 
three shallots, fry lightly an ounce of butter, and 
add four ripe tomatoes, peeled and cut into shces. 
Simmer for a few minutes, then add the okra pods, 
season to taste, and continue to cook for another 
fifteen minutes. Dish up on shces of buttered toast. 
Paprika pepper is particularly suitable for this dish. 



Savoury Egg t)ishes, 
Omelets, etc. 



That the nutritive properties of eggs are by 
far greater than that of almost any other food 
product is an acknowledged fact. It is also true 
that by the help of eggs we are enabled to prepare 
more appetising, dainty, and wholesome dishes 
than we can with other materials that can be 
cooked on the " hasty principle." There are so 
many easy inexpensive and palatable ways of 
preparing eggs for the table that it seems strange 
so many cooks should confine themselves to the 
alternative methods of boiling and frying them. 

Omelets are no doubt the most popular form 
of dishes produced from eggs, although the making 
thereof is but seldom properly understood in this 
country ; there is as a rule a certain knack, care 
and dehcacy needed in the manipulation in order to 
prepare a correct Continental omelet- These can 
easily be acquired, and the best way is by means 
of practice. 

HOW TO MAKE AN OMELET. 

The best and most convenient way to make an 
omelet is to break eight or six eggs, according to 

151 



152 SAVOURY EGG DISHES, OMELETS, ETC. 

the size required. It is unwise to attempt a larger 
sized omelet imless one is a master hand at it. 

The eggs used must be fresh, and must be well but 
not over beaten, just long enough to thoroughly 
amalgamate the whites with the yolks. A little 
cream or milk, say a tablespoonful of either to 
three eggs, added will make the omelet lighter and 
moister. 

The pan used must be quite clean ; it must only 
be used for omelets and must never be allowed 
to be washed. The best way to clean it is to 
make it hot over the fire and to rub the inside 
with a handful of coarse salt and then wipe it 
with a paper and rubber. 

The butter, which must be fresh (not salt butter) 
is next put into the pan. About an ounce is the 
average quantity required for three eggs, the less 
used the better. It must be allowed to get quite 
hot but not burning before the eggs are poured in. 

Season the eggs with salt, pepper, and in the 
case of savoury omelets with chopped herbs. 

Goohing is the next important item. As soon 
as the eggs are poxu:ed into the pan, shake it by its 
handle with one hand and wdth the other (the 
right hand) stir the contents of the pan, slowly at 
first and quickly as it begins to set. 

The fire must be bright, not too fierce. 

Shaping the omelet is the next operation. 
This is effected by tilting the pan a little, slipping a 
thin bladed knife under the edge, and so giving 
the omelet the shape of a cushion or a kmd of 
bolster shape. AUow it to form a crust, i.e. to 
brown very slightly over the fire and turn 
immediately on a hot dish. 

An omelet should be sent to table immediately 
after it is cooked, and should not on any account 



FRENCH OMELET. 153 

be allowed to stand, because if such is the case it 
will become tough. 

PLAIN OMELET. 

Omelette Xaturelle. 

Break six eggs into a basin, season with salt and 
pepper, and beat up with a fork until the yolks 
and whites are thoroughly amalgamated. Melt 
about three-quarters of an ounce of fresh butter 
in an omelet pan ; when hot, pour in the eggs, 
with one hand stir contents, and shake the pan 
with the other over the fire till the eggs commence 
to set, then shape into a cushion form. Allow it 
to brown very Ughtly and turn out on a hot dish. 

Note. — I should Hke to state here that the 
process of omelet making is much easier than it 
reads. All it requires is a httle practice, after which 
the process becomes almost automatic. 



PREWCH OMELET. 

Omdette a la Francaise. 

Beat up six eggs with a tablespoonful of cream. 
Season with salt, pepper, a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, and about four drops of onion 
juice. Melt an oimce of butter in an omelet 
pan ; when hot, pour in the mixture, shake and 
stir, let it set and shape. Allow it to brown, and 
turn out on a dish. Serve immediately. 

In place of using onion juice, the hot pan can 
be rubbed over with the cut side of half an 
onion or garHc. 

s. D. L 



i54 SAVOtlRY EG6 dishes, OMELETS, ETC. 

SAVOUBT OMELET. 

Omelette mix fines Herhes, 

Beat up four eggs, add a dessertspoonful of 
finely chopped parsley, tarragon, and a few sweet 
herbs, and season with pepper and salt. Melt an 
ounce of fresh butter in an omelet pan ; when hot, 
pour in the ingredients, stir over a brisk fire with 
a fork. When the eggs begin to set, shape to an 
oval cushion. Allow it to brown slightly, then 
turn on an oval dish. Tarragon and sweet herbs 
may be omitted if liked. 

SAVOUBY OMELET, PABISIAIf STYLE. 

Omelette aux fines Herbes a la Parisienne. 

Prepare this omelet the same way as prescribed 
in the foregoing recipe, but use only half the 
number of whites of eggs and double the number 
of yolks ; add also a little cream, to be beaten up 
with the eggs. 

VENISON OMELET, 

Omelette au Clievreuil. 

Chop finely some cooked venison, two ounces 
of meat to four eggs and three mushrooms, season 
with pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of Harvey's 
sauce, and a pinch of ground mace. Break the 
eggs, dividing the yolks into a basin with the 
meat and the whites in a bowl. Stir the 
mixture weU, whisk the white to a stiff froth, and 
mix gently with the yolks and minced meat. 
Melt an ounce of butter in an omelet pan ; when 
hot, pour in the mixture, and fry the omelet in the 
usual way. Turn out and garnish with fried parsley 



KIDNEY OMELET. 155 

and thin slices of lemon, and serve with a little 
red currant jelly. Any other game may be made 
into omelets in the same way. 

CAVIARE OMELET. 

Omdette au Caviar. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of caviare with a little 
chopped parsley and shallots, and warm up in a 
stewpan with a little fresh butter ; add a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, and season with cayenne 
pepper. Beat up four eggs, add a Httle cream and 
seasoning, and fry into an omelet ; put the caviare 
in the centre, turn in the ends, dish up, and serve 
hot. 

TBUPFLE OMELET. 

Omelette au.v Truffes. 

Prepare an omelet with four eggs, a teaspoon- 
ful of chopped truffles, parsley and shaUots, and 
the usual seasoning. Shoe three large truffles, 
boil up in a httle sherry, and add a Uttle demi-glace 
sauce. When the. omelet is ready fried and still in 
the pan, put the shced truffles in the centre, turn 
the flaps over with a knife or spoon, to give it a 
nice shape. Turn out on an oval dish and pour a 
Uttle of the sauce round the base of the dish. 

KIDNEY OMELET. 

Omelette aiix Rognons. 

Skin two or three small lamb's or sheep'skidneys, 
cut them into very thin sHces, and fry over a quick 
fire in a saute-pan, with an ounce of butter in 
which a tablespoonful of finely chopped onion has 

I|2 



156 SAVOURY EGG DISHES, OMELETS, ETC. 

been blended. Season with salt and pepper, and 
moisten with brown sauce (madere or demi-glace). 
Cook for about five minutes. Prepare a plain 
omelet and put the stewed kidney in the centre 
just before turning it out on a dish. 

ONION OMELET. 

Omdette aux Oignons. 

Prepare a plain omelet in the usual way. Heat 
up two or three tablespoonfuls of soubise (onion) 
puree, and place this in the centre of the omelet just 
before it is dished up. 

SOUBISE OB OWIOW PUBi^E. 

Peel, blanch and boil till tender one or two large 
onions, drain them and chop very finely. Put 
them in a stewpan with enough seasoned chicken 
or veal stock to cover, and let reduce to a stiff 
puree. Eub this through a fine sieve and mix 
with one or two tablespoonfuls of Mchamel sauce, 
and the needful seasoning. 

SABDINE OMELET, 

Omelette aux Sardines. 

Ingbedients. — 3 eggs, f tablespoonful cream or 
milk, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, 3 sardines 
free from skin and bone, 1 oz. butter, pepper. 

Method. — Break the eggs into a basin, add the 
cream or milk and beat, up well, cut the sardines 
into small dice, add these and the anchovy essence, 
and mix thoroughly. Season vnth a pinch of 
pepper. Melt the butter in a frying or omelet 
pan, pour in the mixture, cook whilst stirring 



MUSSEL OMELET. 



157 



until the eggs begin to set, then form the mixture 
into a half moon or cushion shape, allow it to 
take colour (a nice light brown), and turn out 
quickly on to a hot dish. 

CAPER OMELET. 

Omelette mue Capres. 

Prepare the same ingredients as for a savoury 
omelet, and add a large tablespoonful of chopped 
capers. Fry the omelet in the usual way. 

HOP-SHOOTS OMELET. 

Omelette aiuc Houhlons. 

Wash and boil in salted water a handful of hop- 
shoots or hop-sprigs, drain and chop finely, mix 
with six beaten eggs and the usual seasoning, and 
make into an omelet, adopting the customary 
process. 

LEEE OMELET. 

Omelette aux Poireaux. 

Wash and trim the white part of three leeks, 
blanch and boil till tender, drain and cut up very 
small. Fry in an ounce of butter, pour in six 
beaten eggs seasoned, and make up into the form 
of an omelet. 

MUSSEL OMELET. 

Om-elette anx Monies. 

Trim, blanch and drain eight to ten mussels, 
cut them in halves or quarters, fry them with a 
httle fresh butter, and season with pepper and 



158. SAVOURY EGG DISHES, OMELETS, ETC. 



salt. Beat up four eggs, add the mussels and a 
little lemon juice. Melt half an ounce of butter 
in an omelet pan, and fry the omelet in the usual 
way. Serve with a little gravy or rich brown 
sauce. 

OYSTER OMELET. 

Omelette aiue Huitres. 

Blanch, beard and drain some large oysters 
(twelve oysters to six eggs), and cut them into 
halves. Warm up in a little white fish sauce, add 
a yolk of egg and a little cream ; let it thicken, 
but not boU, and season with a little salt and 
pepper. Prepare an omelet in the usual way, fill 
in the centre vdth the oysters, and turn out on a 
hot dish. The remainder of the sauce should be 
poured round the omelet. 

MUSHBOOM OMELET. 

Prepare and fry an omelet in the same way as 
described for Truffle Omelet, but substitute chopped 
and sliced mushrooms for the truffles. 

SAUSAGE OMELET. 

Omelette aux Saiicissons. 

Break four eggs into a basin, add a finely chopped 
small shallot (previously blended in butter), beat 
up well, and add a heaped-up tablespoonful of 
minced smoked ham or liver sausage, and season 
to taste. Melt an ounce of butter in an omelet 
pan ; when hot, pour in the eggs, etc., stir untU it 
sets.* Shake the pan, whilst holding it in a slanting 
position, so as to give the omelet its proper shape ; 
leave it over the fire for a moment to brovsm, then 



ARTICHOKE OMELET. 159 



turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with a httle 
demi-glace sauce. 

HAM OMELET. 

Omelette an Jamhon, 

Proceed the same as directed in the foregoing 
recipe, but use finely chopped cooked ham in place 
of the sausage. 

BACON OMELET. 

Omelette an Lard, 

Mince about four ounces of lean or streaky 
bacon, fry it in a Uttle butter, stir in six well 
beaten and seasoned eggs. Make it into a neatly 
shaped omelet, dish up, and serve with piquante 
sauce. 

LENTIL OMELET. 

Omelette aux Lmtilles. 

Break fom: eggs into a basin, season with pepper 
and salt, beat up well, and add three tablespoonfuls 
of cooked lentils and a tablespoonful of cream. 
Melt three-quarters of an ounce of butter in an 
omelet pan ; when hot, pour in the mixture, and 
fry and shape into an omelet in the usual manner. 
Serve with tomato sauce. 

ARTICHOKE OMELET. 

Omelette aux Topinambours. 

Mix three or four tablespoonfuls of cooked sliced 
Jerusalem artichokes with enough white sauce to 
moisten. Season to taste and add a little chopped 
parsley and lemon juice. Heat up and put in the 
centre of a plain omelet. 



i6o SAVOURY EGG DISHES, OMELETS, ETC. 



ANCHOVY OMELET. 

Omelette aux AneJwis, 

Prepare a savoury omelet in the usual way, and 
enclose in the centre a ragolt of anchovy fillets 
cut small and mixed with equal quantities of 
tomato and Bspagnole sauce. 

LOBSTER OMELET. 

Omelette de Homard. 

Cut some lobster meat into small dice, heat it 
up in a little lobster sauce ; have ready a plain 
omelet, seasoned with pepper and salt; put the 
lobster with a little of the sauce in the centre, fold 
in ends and turn out on a hot dish, pour the 
remainder of the sauce round the omelet and 
serve. 

COCKLE OMELET. 
Omelette aux Bucardes. 

Beat up four eggs in a basin, add a tablespoonful 
of cream, salt, pepper, and anchovy essence to 
taste. Stir in about half a gill of prepared cockles. 
Melt an ounce of butter in an omelet pan ; when 
hot, put in the above, stir, cook, fold, and finish 
the omelet in the usual way. 

PRAWN OMELET. 

Omelette aux Ecrevisses, 

Cut up into very small pieces some picked 
prawns or crayfish tails (twelve tails to four eggs), 
season with salt, cayenne, and nutmeg ; fry them 
in a little butter. Beat up the eggs, add the 
minced prawns, and fry the omelet in the usual 
way. 



OMELET WITH MIXED VEGETABLES. i6i 



AMERICAN OMELET, 

Omelette a V Andricaine, 

Boil a handful of breadcrumbs in a gill of milli ; 
add a little chopped chives and parsley, stir in four 
yolks of eggs, let it thicken but not boil, and 
season with pepper and salt. Whisk the whites 
of four eggs to a stiff froth, mix gently with the 
above.' Melt an ounce of butter in an omelet 
pan, and fry the omelet in the usual way ; garnish 
with some fried parsley. 

OLIVE OMELET. 

Omelette aux Olives, 

Stone some Erench olives (ten olives to four 
eggs), boil them in a little rich demi-glace sauce 
in a stewpan, season with cayenne and salt and 
a pinch of sugar ; prepare a savoury omelet, put 
the ohves in the centre, pour the remainder of the 
sauce round the omelet, and serve. 

OMELET WITH MIXED VEGETABLES. 

Omelette a la Jardiniere. 

Prepare a jardiniere of neatly cut cooked carrots 
and turnips, green peas and French beans. Heat 
up in a little rich white sauce, season with pepper 
and salt, add some chopped parsley and a pinch 
of castor sugar. Have ready a plain omelet, 
seasoned with chopped shallots, pepper and salt ; 
when ready to turn out, put the jardiniere into 
the centre, fold and dish up. A little white sauce 
should be poured round the omelet. 



i62 SAVOURY EGG DISHES, OMELETS, ETC. 

TOMATO OMELET, No, 1. 

Omelette aux Tomates. 

Cut two ripe peeled tomatoes into small pieces, 
fry some chopped shallots in a little butter, add 
the tomatoes, season with salt and pepper. Pre- 
pare an omelet seasoned with savoury herbs, etc. ; 
when ready for turning out, put the tomatoes in 
the centre, fold ends in neatly, dish up and serve 
with tomato sauce. 

TOMATO OMELET, No. 2. 

Omelette aux Tomates, 

Blend a tablespoonful of finely chopped onion 
with a piece of butter in a stewpan ; when tender, 
not brown, add four tomatoes, scalded, skinned, 
and cut into small pieces ; season with pepper, salt, 
and a little cayenne, and cook for about fifteen 
minutes. Turn out into a basin, and add a handful 
of white breadcrumbs ; mix well vdth six eggs, fry 
in an omelet pan in the ordinary way, or turn it 
into a buttered shallow fireproof dish, and bake it in 
a quick oven. Serve tomato sauce round the base 
of the dish. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

Omelette au Fromage, 

Break four eggs into a basin, season with pepper 
and salt, beat up well, and add a tablespoonful of 
grated Parmesan cheese. Melt three-quarters of 
an ounce of butter in an omelet pan ; when hot, 
pour in the eggs, stir till it begins to set, shake the 
pan, fold in the ends, shape the omelet, let brown, 
then turn out on a hot dish, sprinkle over with 
grated cheese, and serve. 



CURRY OMELET. 163 



POTATO OMELET. 

Omelette aux Pommes de Terre. 

Bake a large potato, break the skin, scoop out 
the mealy part, rub it through a wire sieve, put it 
into a basin, stir and add four yolks of eggs and a 
little lemon juice. Mix well and season with salt, 
pepper, and grated nutmeg. Whisk the whites of 
four eggs to a froth and mix gently with the above. 
Fry the omelet in the usual way, or bake the 
mixture in the oven Hke a souffld omelet. 

SAVOTJBY SOUFFLE OMELET. 

Separate three yolks of eggs from the whites, 
put the yolks in a basin, work well, and add a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half a teaspoonful 
of chopped shallots (blended), and a saltspoonful 
of dried savoury herbs. Whisk the whites of eggs 
to a stiff froth, mix gradually with the yolks, season 
with a httle salt and a pinch of cayenne. Dress 
neatly in a buttered gratin or soufQe dish. Sprinkle 
with grated Parmesan cheese, and bake in a hot 
oven for about fifteen minutes. 

CUBBY OMELET. 

Omelette a la Madras. 

Ingbbdients. — 6 eggs, 2 shallots, IJ oz. fresh 
•butter, 1 tablespoonful cream or milk, 1 oz. rice 
cooked in white stock. Salt and pepper, curry 
sauce, and 1 dessertspoonful Madras chutney. 

Method. — Break the eggs into a basin, add the 
cream or milk, season to taste, and beat up so as 
to mix the yolks and whites of eggs thoroughly. 
Peel and chop finely the shallots, fry them a light 



i64 SAVOURY EGG DISHES, OMELETS, ETC. 

colour in a little butter in an omelet pan, add 
the remainder of butter ; as soon as the butter is 
melted (not oily) pour in the beaten eggs, stir 
quickly over a brisk fire till the mixture begins to 
set, then shape into cushion form on one side of the 
pan, fill the centre of the omelet with cooked hot 
rice, flavoured with curry sauce, and mixed with 
finely chopped chutney. Fold the omelet, colour it 
to get a nice golden brown, and turn carefully out into 
an oblong dish, pour some curry sauce, previously 
heated, round the base of the dish, and serve 
quickly. 

JUMBIiED EGGS. 

(Eufs brouillSs. 

Six eggs, about 1 oz. of butter, 1 tablespoonful 
of gravy or rich stock, 3 mushrooms, 1 truffle, salt 
and pepper, a shce of toasted bread (buttered). 

Chop the mushrooms and truffles finely, break 
the eggs into a stewpan, add the gravy, season to 
taste and beat well, mix in the mushrooms and 
truffles, add the butter, stir over a bright fire until 
it begins to thicken. Trim the toast, cut it into 
quarters and place on a hot dish. Put the mixture 
on this and serve quickly. 

The mushrooms and truffles may be substituted 
with chopped ham or tongue, shredded and cooked 
lettuce leaves, cooked asparagus tops, etc. 

NORFOLK EGGS. 

(Eufs frits a la Norfolk. 

Cut four hard-boiled shelled eggs into halves 
lengthwise, dredge them Hghtly with seasoned 
flour. Dip each half in beaten egg and roll in soft 



STUFFED EGGS WITH SPINACH. 165 

white breadcrumbs. Fry in clarified butter, drain, 
dish up, and serve with a rich brown sauce. 

EGGS 1 LA GRANVILLE. 

Mince finely half a small Spanish onion and 
fry it in butter in a stewpan until of a light brown 
colour, add half an ounce of flour. Cook a little, 
and dilute with a gill of milk to make a light sauce ; 
stir well, and season with pepper and salt, ground 
mace, and some chopped lemon rind. Slice four 
hard boiled eggs and put them in the cooked 
sauce ; when hot, dish up and garnish with fried 
parsley and bread croutons. 

EGGS A LA SALAMANDEE. 

Boil four or six eggs till quite hard, cut the whites 
into shreds, and rub. the yolks through a coarse 
wire sieve. Prepare a thick v/hite sauce, add to it 
a little chopped parsley, fresh cream, and season 
with salt and pepper. Heat up the whites of eggs in 
the sauce, and dish up in a border of hot mashed 
potatoes ; cover with the yolks of eggs, sprinkle 
with oiled butter, and brown lightly with a^ hot 
salamander. 

STUFFED EGGS WITH SPINACH. 

(Eufsfarcis mix Epinardi. 

Boil six eggs for ten minutes, peel them, cut 
them in halves crossways, stamp out the centre 
with a half-inch cutter. Cut out some croutons 
about the size of the base of an egg and fry them 
in clarified butter ; have ready some cooked and 
seasoned spinach puree and flavoured with cream. 



i66 SAVOURY EGG DISHES, OMELETS, ETC. 



Cook for a few minutes whilst stirring, fill the 
egg-halves with spinach, close the top with the 
pieces cut out, and place each, cut side down, on a 
croMon. Dish up, garnish with the yolks, minced 
coarsely, and thin slices of tongue. Serve with 
a little brown sauce. 

EGGS A LA MATELOTTB. 

Poach six eggs in white stock, drain and" trim 
them, and dish up on fried bread croutons. Chop 
an onion and three shallots very finely, fry them 
with a little butter in a stewpan, add a little par- 
sley, a bay leaf, and thyme. Strain off the butter, 
and add some rich brown sauce, and put it back in 
the stewpan. Add a few sliced mushrooms and 
the juice of half a lemon. Place the dish with 
the eggs in the oven for a few minutes, then sauce 
over. Garnish with fillets of anchovies and stoned 
olives, and serve. 

EGG CUTLETS, 

Cotelettes aux CEufs. 

Chop finely four hard-boiled eggs, mix with two 
ounces of breadcrumbs, an ounce of grated 
Parmesan cheese, an ounce of butter, a teaspoonful 
of curry powder, a Uttle nutmeg, pepper and salt, 
and the beaten yolks of four eggs. Shape the 
mixture into small cutlets, dip them into the 
whites of the eggs, then into brown breadcrumbs ; 
fry them in hot fat, and drain. Insert a small 
piece of macaroni in each cutlet to form the bone ; 
dish up quickly, garnish with sprigs of fried par- 
sley, and serve. 



Egg friAndises. 16(7 



EGGS WITH BROWN BUTTER. 

CEufs au Beurre noir. 

Melt an ounce of butter in an omelet pan; 
when hot, break six eggs into it, taking care not 
to disturb the yolks. Season with pepper and salt ; 
fry them carefully, trim and dish them up neatly. 
Add another piece of butter into the pan, let it get 
brown, then add a tablespoonful of Orleans or malt 
vinegar ; boil up for a few seconds, pour over the 
fried eggs, and serve. 

EGGS A LA CHASSEUR. 

Divide six hard-boiled eggs equally into halves 
(lengthways) and remove the yolks. Fill the 
cavities with a well prepared salpicon of cooked 
game, ham and mushrooms, cover with a layer of 
finely minced champignons. Beat the yolks 
through a coarse sieve on to the eggs. Place them 
on a baking sheet, sprinkle with grated cheese and 
oiled butter, and bake in a very hot oven for five 
minutes. Dish up and pour some hot tomato or 
P6rigord sauce round the base of the dish. 

EGG FRIANDISES. 

Poach carefully six or more fresh eggs in slightly 
salted water containing a little lemon juice or 
vinegar. As soon as sufficiently set (three or four 
minutes) take up the eggs by means of an egg 
shoe, trim well and let them cool. Eoll out some 
puff-paste thinly and stamp out double the num- 
ber of paste rounds as there are eggs ; place an 
egg (well drained) in the centre of a paste round ; 
wet the edges of the latter and cover with another 



i68 SAVOURY EGG DISHES, OMELETS, ETC. 

round of paste, press the edges well together and 
egg and crumb. Proceed thus till all the eggs are 
used up. 

Fry the friandises in plenty of hot fat to a 
golden colour. "When done strain them on a cloth. 
Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with 
tomato or piquante sauce. 

EGGS 1 L'ORLY. 

So called egg fritters can also be prepared by 
coating the poached (well drained) eggs in a frying 
batter. Pry as above mentioned in hot fat till of a 
golden colour, drain on a cloth. Dish up and serve 
with a well seasoned tomato sauce. 

EGGS WITH MUSHROOMS. 

(Eufs aux Chanvpigno'us. 

Take five hard-boiled eggs, remove the shells, 
cut half of the eggs into thin rings for garnishing, 
chop up the remainder coarsely. Slice and fry in 
butter a dozen preserved mushrooms with two 
finely chopped shallots, add a little brown sauce, 
boil up and put in the eggs, let them simmer for a 
few minutes. Dish up, garnish with small fried 
bread crolitons or fleurons, the rings of the whites 
of eggs, and serve. 

EGG AND HAM TIT-BITS. 

Bonnes-Bouches aux CEufs et Jambon. 

Line ten or. twelve small tartlet moulds with 
puff paste triinmings or paste crust; fill these 
with the following preparation : 

Mince four ounces of cooked ham and three 



PYRAMID OF EGGS. 169 

hard-boiled e^gs finely. Mix with the yolks of 
raw eggs a little cream, and season with salt, 
pepper, and grated nutmeg. Fill up moulds and 
bake the patties in a moderately hot oven, dish up 
and serve with some piquante or tomato sauce. 

EGGS, GERMAN STYLE. 

(Eufs a I'AUemande. 

Cut five hard-boiled eggs in halves ; remove 
the yolks, and shred the whites into fine strips. 
Sautd these with a httle fresh butter in a pan, add 
a gill of white Allemande sauce, a tablespoonful of 
tomato puree, a few drops of essence of anchovy. 
Season with salt, pepper, and a few drops of lemon 
juice, stir all over the fire until quite hot. Dish 
up the eggs in the centre of a border of fried 
bread croifttes. Sprinkle a httle grated cheese be- 
tween each layer of egg and sauce. Bub the yolks 
through a wire sieve, and with it cover the top of 
the dish. Place in a hot oven to brown, and serve. 

PTKAMID OF EGGS. 

Pyramide d'CEufs a la SuprSme. 
Take six hard-boiled eggs, remove the shells, 



and cut them in halves. Remove the yolks, and 
pound them in a mortar with half an ounce of 
fresh butter, a handful of white breadcrumbs, 
which have been previously soaked in milk or 
cream, an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, and a 
little chopped parsley or chives. Season with salt, 
pepper, and grated nutmeg, pound till quite 
smooth, and fill the whites of eggs. Spread the 
bottom of a dish with a httle of the mixture, pro- 
ceed to dish up the stuffed eggs to a pyramidal 
s. D. M 



170 SAVOURY EGG DISHES, OMELETS. ETC. 

form, so that the top finishes up with a single egg. 
Rub some hard-boiled yolks of eggs through a 
wire sieve on to top of the dressed eggs. Put in a 
hot oven to brown for a few minutes, and serve 
with supreme sauce. 

POACHED EGGS, BURGUNDY STYLE, 

(Eufs pochSs a la Bourgogne, 

Peel four small button onions, fry them lightly 
with a piece of butter in a small omelet pan ; add 
six chopped mushrooms and a dessertspoonful of 
flour, a glass of red wine and a little stock ; moisten, 
and let it simmer for fifteen minutes. Season 
with salt, pepper, lemon juice, and a dessertspoon- 
ful of finely chopped chutney. Prepare soine 
rounds of hot buttered toast, poach the number of 
eggs required, and dish up on these. Boil up the 
sauce and pour over the eggs. 

POACHED EGGS, PORTUGUESE STYLE. 

CEufs pochSs a la Portugaise. 

Cut six even sized tomatoes in halves, crossways, 
take out some of the pulp and fill them with the 
following stuffing. Fry four finely minced shallots 
in a Uttle butter, add half a handful of white 
breadcrumbs, a little chopped parsley and a few 
sprigs of tarragon, a small piece of beef marrow, 
finely chopped; bind with a yolk of egg, and 
season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. 
When the tomatoes are stuffed put them on a 
buttered saut6-pan in the oven to brown. Place 
each on a round of hot buttered toast, on the top 
of which place a poached egg neatly trimmed. 
Pish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. 



EGGS, GRATIN STYLE. 171 

POACHED EGGS WITH HAM. 

(Eufs pochSs au Jamhon, 

Poach some eggs, trim neatly, and dish them up 
on thin oval -cut slices of broiled ham. Pour 
poivrade sauce round the eggs, sprinkle a few 
drops of liquid meat glaze over the top, and serve. 

POACHED EGGS AND ANCHOVY. 

(EufspocMs a I'Anchois. 

Prepare sufficient slices of toasted bread to cut 
out six rounds, each large enough to hold a poached 
egg. Butter the pieces, spread with anchovy paste 
or anchovy butter. Poach six eggs ; place one on 
each piece of prepared toast, sprinkle with grated 
Parmesan cheese and a pinch of cayenne. 

POACHED EGGS WITH SPINACH. 

CEufs pocJds aux Epinards. 

Prepare same rounds of toast, as described in 
the foregoing recipe, put a tablespoonful of pre- 
pared spinach on each piece of buttered toast, 
poach six eggs, and place one on the top of the 
spinach. Put a small pinch of black pepper in the 
centre of each yolk of egg, and serve. 

< 
EGGS, GBATIN STYLE. 

(Eufs au Qratin. 

Prepare a mixture of three yolks of eggs, a 
small handful of white breadcrumbs, two ounces 
of butter, two finely chopped boned anchovies, a 
small shallot and a sprig of parsley, both chopped 

M 3 



172 SAVOURY EGG DISHES, OMELETS, ETC. 

finely. Season with pepper and salt, mix well, 
and spread over the bottom of a buttered gratin 
dish. AUow it to brown slightly in the oven, take 
it out, break carefully six eggs into the dish, 
season to taste; return to the oven for a few 
minutes longer, and serve as hot as possible. 

EGGS, BUCKINGHAM STYLE. 
CEufs a la Buckingham. 

Boil six eggs until hard, carefully remove the 
yolks, shred the whites finely, also two large 
truffles. Lay the yolks in the centre of di^, 
and the whites and truffles round them. Stand 
in the oven to keep hot. Have ready some 
bechamel sauce mixed with a tablespoonful of 
grated Parmesan cheese, and a pinch of cayenne. 
When hot, pour over the eggs, garnish with 
fried bread croutons, and serve. 

EGGS, GBUYiiRE FASHION. 

(Eufs a la Gruyere. 

Melt half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, 
add half a pound of minced Gruyere cheese ; stir 
over a slow fire; season with a little salt, pepper, 
nutmeg, finely chopped chives and shallots 
(blended in butter), a teaspoonful in all, moisten 
with a gill of white stock. Allow all to get 
thoroughly hot ; then stir in four weU-beaten eggs. 
When done, dress quickly on a round dish, and 
garnish with puff paste leaves (fleurons). 

EGGS 1. LA MAIBE. 

Poach six new-laid eggs, trim them and place 
each on a round of toast covered with a shce of 



EGGS A LA MODE DE CAEN. 173 

cooked ox-tongue, sprinkle over with chopped ham 
and truffles. Dish up, and pour some Madeira 
sauce round the eggs. Heat up, and serve. 

S&GS A IiA CBJIiME. 

Poach six to eight eggs, trim them neatly and 
place each upon a round of toast covered with a 
thin layer of chicken forcemeat. Dish up, and 
sauce over with cream or supreme sauce. Eeheat, 
and serve. 

EGGS A LA ROYALB. 

Six eggs, IJ oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfuls truffle 
peelings (chopped finely) . For the sauce : 
2 shallots, J small carrot, 2 oz. raw ham,. 
1 gill gravy, 1 oz. meat glaze, 2 tablespoonfuls 
Marsala wine, seasoning. 

Butter six small dariole moulds and sprinkle 
the sides and bottoms with chopped truffle peelings. 
Carefully break an egg into each of the prepared 
moulds, season with a tiny pinch of cayenne and 
salt, place the moulds in a saut6-pan containing some 
hot water. Cover with a paper and cook in the 
oven long enough to poach the eggs. Make the 
sauce by frying the shallots, carrot, and onion, and 
have all finely chopped in the remainder of the 
butter, then add the gravy, the meat glaze and the 
vnne. Let the whole reduce well and pass through 
a fine sieve. Eeheat the sauce. Umnould the egg 
darioles on a hot dish . Coat well with the prepared 
sauce, and serve quickly. 

EGGS A IjA mode DE CAEN. 

Fry lightly in buttef a small coarsely shredded 
Spanish onion, stir in a dessertspoonful of flour, 



174 SAVOURY EGG DISHES, OMELETS, ETC. 

cook and mix with a little milk or cream ; season 
with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Let it boil 
until it becomes thick, stirring it from time to time. 
Slice four hard-boiled eggs, and warm them up in 
the sauce ; when thoroughly hot, dish up, sprinkle 
with a little chopped parsley, and serve. 

FRIED EGG SANDWICHES. 

• Cut three or four hard-boiled eggs free from 
shell into slices, and pound in a mortar, with a 
little butter and cream, to a small paste. - Season 
with salt, pepper, and a little cayenne. Cut two 
rasped French rolls into thin slices, butter them, 
spread them with the mixture and make up into 
small sandwiches. Dip each sandwich in some 
prepared frying batter, and fry in hot fat. Drain, 
dish up neatly, and serve. 

EGGS, COQUETTE STYLE. 

(Eiifs a la Coquette. 

Butter as many china souffle or ramekin cases as 
are required ; put in each a tablespoonful of fresh 
cream, and break carefully an egg on the cream ; 
season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. 
Place the cases in a saute-pan containing a little 
boiling water into the oven, and bake just long 
enough to set the eggs. Send to table in the 
souffle cases. 

STUFFED EGGS WITH NOUILLBS. 

CEufsfarcis aiix NouUles et Jarnhon. 

Cut six hard-boiled eggs in halves and scoop out 
the yolks; have ready some cooked nouiUes, cut 



EGGS A LA SOUBISE. 175 

into fine strips, heat up a teacupful with a Uttle 
butter. Add half the quantity of minced ham and 
a httle grated cheese and season with salt and 
pepper. Fill the whites of eggs with this pre- 
paration, and rub the yolks of eggs through 
a sieve, and over the top of the eggs place here and 
there a tiny piece of fresh butter. Dish up, 
brown with the salamander, sprinkle a little 
chopped ham over the top, and serve quickly. 



STUFFED EGGS WITH CREAM. 

(Eitfs farcis a la Creme. 

Boil six eggs for ten minutes, take off the shells, 
cut them in halves lengthways, scoop out the 
yolks, and pound in a mortar with half an ounce 
of butter, a handful of white breadcrumbs, 
previously soaked in milk, a dessertspoonful of 
chopped parsley, half the quantity of chopped 
chives, two raw yolks of eggs, and a tablespoon- 
ful of cream. Season with salt, pepper, and a 
httle cayenne. Fill the mixture into the whites of 
eggs, place the remainder of the stuffing on a 
dish; dress the eggs on the top, and bake in a 
hot oven for ten minutes, sprinkle with a httle 
grated Earmesan cheese, and serve at once. 



EGGS A I.A SOUBISE. 

Cut four hard-boiled eggs into sUces, cover each 
slice with a thick layer of soubise (onion) puree, 
place them on rounds of toasted and buttered 
bread. Heat up in the oven, dish up, and serve. 



176 SAVOURY EGG DISHES, OMELETS. ETC. 

DEVILLED EGGS. 

(Eufs a la Liable. 

Stamp out some rounds with a tin cutter, about 
two inches in diameter, and fry a light colour in 
clarified butter ; spread them with a mixture of 
devilled butter, curry, or muligatawny paste and 
cayenne. Poach the number of eggs required, trim 
them, and lay one on each prepared croliton, dust 
with cayenne pepper, and serve as hot as possible. 

EGG AND TONGUE CBOt^TONS. 

Croutons aux (Eufs a I'Ecarlate. 

Cut some rings from a French roll, dip each in 
a little milk and flour, fry in clarified butter. 
Spread one side of each with a paste of pounded 
tongue, butter, and a little meat glaze. Poach 
some eggs, and lay one on each of the prepared 
croltons ; dish up on a folded napkin, garnish 
with parsley, and serve either hot or cold. 

EGGS A LA BOMAINE. 

Break six eggs, separating the yolks from the 
whites. Butter six small bouche or patty-pans, and 
put one yolk and a teaspoonful of cream in each ; 
season with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. 
Beat the whites into a stiff froth, season, and dress 
a proportionate quantity on the yolks; shape 
neatly with a knife or spoon, bake in a moderate 
oven for about fifteen minutes. Dust with salt and 
grated cheese, and serve very hot. 

STUFFED EGGS A L'lTALIENNE. 

Cut six hard-boiled eggs in halves lengthways. 
Scoop out the yolks carefully, and pound them 



FRIED EGGS A LA BONNE-FBMME. 177 

with six boned Gorgona anchovies. Add one table- 
spoonful of cream, a pat of fresh butter, and an ounce 
of grated Parmesan cheese. Work to a smooth 
paste, season with salt and pepper, and heat up ia 
a stewpan with a tablespooiifii of bechamel sauce. 
Fill the whites of eggs with this. Dish up, and 
reheat in the oven. Pour a little hot anchovy 
sattce round the dish, and serve. 

STUFFED EGGS WITH PARSLEY. 

CEufsfarcis au Persil. 
Cut six hard-boiled eggs in halves. Take out 



the yolks, pound them in a mortar with an ounce 
of butter, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley,, a 
dessertspoonful of cornflour, a few drops of 
essence of anchovy, and a tablespoonful of cream. 
Stir this over a &:e in a small stewpan until it 
boils. Season vdth pepper and salt, and fill the 
eggs voth this. Dish them up, and serve with a 
rich parsley or maitre d'hdtel sauce. 

EGGS A IiA SUISSE. 

Break six eggs into a basin. Mix well with an 
ounce of grated Gruyere cheese and half an 
ounce of melted butter, a few sprigs of chives, 
parsley, and tarragon, finely chopped. Season 
Vi'ith pepper and salt, drop the mixture in spoon- 
fuls in hot fat, fry a hght brown, dish up, and serve 
hot. 

FRIED EGGS A LA BONWE-FEMME. 

Cut four hard-boiled eggs into sHces. Season 
the slices with pepper and salt, and dip them one 
by one in beaten egg, mixed with chopped herbs, 



178 SAVOURY EGG DISHES, OMELETS. ETC. 

and cover with breadcrumbs; fry in clarified 
butter, drain on a cloth. Dish up, garnish with 
fried parsley, and serve. 

BAKED EGGS, GRATIN STYLE. 

CEu/s gratinSs. 

Cut four or six hard-boiled eggs into slices, and 
dress them in the form of a border closely on a 
buttered dish. Prepare the following mixture : 
A large spoonful of white sauce, a small piece of 
butter, two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan 
cheese, and two yolks of raw eggs. Season with 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; stir all quickly over the 
fire till it begins to thicken, then add two finely 
shredded eggs, and fill in the centre of the dish ; 
cover the egg border with the remainder of the 
sauce, and sprinkle over with fried breadcrumbs 
and grated Parmesan cheese. Place it in a very 
hot oven for a few minutes to brown, and serve. 

SCOTCH EGGS. 

(Eufs a I'Ecossaise. 

Remove the shells from six hard-boiled eggs, 
cut out the centres lengthways with a culinary 
cutter, and fill the cavities with a mixture of half 
a pound of force-meat or sausage-meat, a table- 
spoonful of cream, the yolk of a raw egg, well 
mixed and seasoned. Egg and crumb the eggs 
and fry them in hot fat or clarified butter. Cut 
the eggs quickly in halves, dish them up in a 
border so that each half overlaps the other. Put 
some fried parsley in the centre, and pour tomato 
sauce round the base of the dish. 



SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH SHREDDED HAM. 179 

SCRAMBLED, BUTTERED EGGS. 

OEufs hrouUlSs au Bmirre, 

Break four eggs into a stewpan, beat up and 
mix with an ounce of butter and a tablespoonful 
of cream or milk; season with pepper and salt. 
Stir over a quick fire until it thickens. Dress on 
a piece of buttered toast, and serve. 

Note. — Eggs prepared thus can be varied by 
adding minced truffles, ham, tongue, tomatoes, 
asparagus points, etc. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS A L'lTALIENNE. 

Cook some rice in rich stock and finish like 
risotto. Add some fried chicken or duck liver and 
dress in the form of a border on a dish. Prepare 
scrambled eggs as directed in the foregoing recipe 
and put them in the centre of the dish ; pour a little 
tomato or Madeira sauce round the base of the 
dish, and serve. 

SCRAMBLED EGG« WITH ASPARAGUS TIPS. 

(Eufg hrouilUs aux Asperges, 

Mix a handful of cooked asparagus points or tips 
with foui? beaten eggs. Cook and serve in the 
same way as scrambled eggs. Put a little veloute 
or supreme sauce at each end of the dish, and 
serve. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH SHREDDED HAM. 

Cut two or three ounces of cooked ham into fine 
shreds, fry hghtly in butter, pour in six well beaten 



i8o SAVOURY EGG DISHES, OMELETS, ETC. 

and seasoned eggs, stir till it begins to set and 
dish up on buttered toast. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH HBBBS. 

(Eiifs hrouilles aux fines Herbes. 

Proceed in the same way as for scrambled eggs, 
but add and mix some finely chopped parsley, 
chives and chervil with the egg mixture, cook as 
directed, and serve on buttered toast. 

FRIED EGGS, LYONBSE STYLE. 

CEufs frits a la Lyonnaise. 

Slice finely two small onions, season vdth salt, 
pepper and cayenne, fry them in butter to a golden 
colour. Drain off the butter, put them on a hot 
dish, and squeeze a little lemon juice over them. 
Have ready six fried eggs, trim them neatly, dress 
them on the onions ; garnish with crisped parsley, 
and serve very hot. 

SAVOURY EGGS, MAItBE D'h6tEL. 

(Eufs a la Maitre d' Hotel. 

Cut four hard-boiled eggs crossways in halves. 
Scoop out the yolks, chop them together with an 
ounce of cooked ham, some parsley, and a few 
tarragon leaves ; season with pepper and salt, and 
moisten with a little fresh cream. Cut the ends 
off the halves of whites to make them stand, fill 
them with the mixture, dress them in pyramidal 
form on a round dish, place them in a hot oven 
for a few minutes,, pour over some maitre d'h6tel 
sauce, and serve. 



EGG CROtlfTBS A L'IMP&RATRICE. i8i 



EGGS A IiA ROSSINI. 

Break six eggs into a shallow buttered gratin dish, 
season and place them in the oven till nearly set. 
Arrange a border of saut^ed chicken livers, cut in 
dice, round the eggs. Sauce over with a rich truffle 
sauce (sauce p^rigueux) and return to the oven for 
another five minutes. 

STIRBED EGGS WITH TOMATOES. 

Fry two finely-chopped shallots in an ounce of 
butter, add a ripe tomato, peeled and cut up very 
small ; reduce a little and add three or four eggs 
well beaten and seasoned with salt and pepper. 
Stir till the mixture begins to set, and dress on 
rounds of buttered toast. 

EGG CROt^TES A L'IMPERATRICE. 

Cut two hard-boiled eggs into slices, stamp out 
some rounds of toasted bread a little larger than 
the egg shces, butter them, and season with salt 
and Krona pepper. Put the egg slices on the 
toast and a teaspoonful of seasoned caviare in the 
centre of each, finish by placing a picked prawn 
on the caviare. Dish up, garnish with parsley, 
and serve. 



Farinaceous 

AND 

Cheese Savouries. 



CHEESE MERINGUES. 

Meringues au Fromage. 

Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, 
stir in gently three tablespoonfuls of Parmesan 
cheese, a pinch of salt, and a little cayenne pepper. 
Have ready some hot fat, drop in the mixture by 
means of a dessertspoon, and fry a hght brown 
colour. Drain carefully and serve quickly, as they 
will not bear to stand long, and should only be 
prepared at the last moment. 

CHEESE SOUFFIii^S, No. 1. 

Soufflh au Fromage. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of patent cornflour with 
a little cold milk and stir into half a pint of boiling 
milk, work well and add an ounce of butter, three 
tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, the 
yolks of four eggs well beaten, and season with 
salt and pepper. Whisk the whites of two eggs 
to a stiff froth, and mix gently with the above. 
Three parts fill some small buttered souffl6 cases 



CHEESE STRAWS. 183 



or cups, and bake in a quick oven for about fifteen 
minutes ; serve hot. 

CHEESE SOUFFL:gS, STo. 2. 

SmifflSs au Fromage. 

Dissolve one and a half ounce of butter in a 
stewpan, add an ounce of sifted flour, stir well, 
and cook without browning, add half a pint of milk, 
and stir vigorously over the fire until a smooth 
paste is obtained. Season with salt, white pepper, 
and cayenne. Now add two ounces of grated 
Parmesan cheese, work well over the fire for a few 
minutes, stir in four yolks of eggs, and let cool. 
Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, mix 
in lightly, and fill into souffle cases ; stand them 
on a balang tin, and bake for about fifteen minutes 
in a quick oven. 

CHEESE AIGBETTES, OB CHEESE BAliIiS. 

Boil up not quite half a pint of water in a stew- 
pan, add a pinch of salt and an ounce of butter. 
Stir in whilst boUing four ounces of sifted flour, 
work this vigorously over the fire till the sides and 
bottom of the pan are left quite clean. Allow the 
mixture to cool, and stir in one by one the yolks 
of three eggs, and two or three ounce's of grated 
Parmesan cheese. Season with a pinch of cayenne. 
Drop the mixture from a dessertspoon into 
fairly hot fat and fry gently to a golden colour. 
Drain, sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese, and 

serve. 

CHEESE STEAWS. 

Failles au Parmesan. 
Prepare a paste with half a pound of flour, four 
ounces of grated cheese, and six ounces of fresh 



i84 FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE SAVOURIES. 

butter. Proceed making the paste the same way as 
puff paste is prepared. EoU out the paste into an 
oblong shape, cut it into strips, and twist both ends 
similar to screws. Place them on a baking sheet, 
Aast with fine salt and cayenne, and bake them 
in a quick oven. 

Note. — Puff paste trimmings, rolled out several 
times, sprinkled well with grated cheese, and 
seasoned with cayenne, answer well to make 
cheese straws with. 

CHEESE TUBNOVEBS. 

Eissoles de Fromage. 

Beat up an egg, mix it with four ounces of 
grated cheese, and season. EoU out some puff 
paste and stamp out some rounds. On each round 
put a spoonful of the mixture, turn over, pinch 
down the edges (these should be previously wetted), 
egg the tops, sprinkle with grated cheese, and 
bake. 

CHEESE SCAIiLOFS. 

Coquilles de Fromage. 

Soak in milk a quarter of a pound of white 
breadcrumbs, beat up two eggs and mix with the 
crumbs, add half an ounce of butter and four 
ounces of grated cheese ; mix all well together, 
season with salt and pepper, fill up some buttered 
scallop shells, sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, 
grated cheese and oiled butter. Bake them a light 
brown colour, and serve. 

CHEESE CAKES. 

PetiU Gateaux an Fromage. 
Take equal quantities of flour, grated cheese 



CHEESE FRlTTE&S, ANOTtiER WAV. 185 

and butter ; season with salt, pepper and cayenne. 
Beat up three eggs to six ounces of flour, mix all 
up well, fill in small lined patty or tartlet tins. 
Bake in a quick oven, and serve hot. 

CHEESE PBITTEBS. 

Bdgnets au Fromage. 

Put half a pint of water in a stewpan to boil,, 
add half an ounce of fresh butter; season with 
salt, pepper and cayenne. As soon as it boils, 
stir in sufficient sifted flour to form a stiff paste, 
and work quickly over the fire. Take it off the 
fire, and work in six ounces of grated cheese, also 
four yolks of eggs, and let cool. Beat the whites of 
four eggs to a froth, and add gradually to the 
mixture. Fry by dropping spoonfuls of it into hot 
fat. Drain, dish up, sprinkle with grated cheese, 
and serve quickly, 

CHEESE PBITTBRS, ANOTHER WAT. 

Bdgnets Souffles au Fromage. 

Put a gill of milk into a stewpan with one 
ounce of butter ; when boiling, stir in quickly two 
to three tablespoonfuls of flour, and work over the 
fire until the sides and bottom of the stewpan are 
perfectly clean ; then remove it from the &xe, and 
add gradually four ounces of grated Gruyere, and 
two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese ; season 
with pepper, a little salt, and cayenne. Shape 
into small even-sized balls, drop theni into hot fat, 
and fry to a golden colour, drain on a cloth, dish 
up in a pile on a dish, sprinkle with grated cheese, 
and serve. 

s. D. N 



iS6 fArinACeoOs And ctisESE sAvovries. 



CHEESE HOMINY SOUFFLES. 

Stir an ounce and a half of hominy into half 
a pint of boiling milk, work it over the fire with 
a wooden spoon until the preparation becomes 
stiff, then add half an ounce of butter, one ounce of 
grated cheese, and two yolks of eggs ; season with 
salt, white pepper and cayenne. Whisk the 
whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the 
mixture. Butter some china ramekin cases, or 
souffle cases, fill in the mixture, and bake in a 
moderately heated oven for twenty minutes. 

BICE CROQUETS, 

Prepare and cook the rice as directed for rice au 
gratin, bind with three yolks of eggs, spread the 
mixture on a dish to cool. Make up into cutlet 
or cork shapes. Egg and crumb them and fry in 
hot fat. Chopped ham or tongue added to the 
mixture will improve the flavour considerably. 

BICE AU GBATIN. 

Wash, blanch, and boil in veal stock six ounces 
of rice. Drain and moisten the rice with bechamel 
sauce, add a handful of grated cheese, season with 
'a tiny pinch of cayenne and Krona pepper. Dress 
on a buttered gratin dish, sprinkle with bread- 
crumbs, grated cheese and oiled butter, and bake in 
a sharp oven to brovsTi the top. Serve in the 
same dish. 

BICE CEOUSTADES. 

Prepare and cook some rice as directed in the 
foregomg recipe, mix with it an ounce of chopped 



WELSH RARE-BIT 187 

cooked ham and fill up into paste-lined croustade 
moulds, bake in a moderate oven for about twenty 
minutes, and serve hot. 

SAVOURY SEMOLIlfA. 

Stir two ounces of Florador or best semolina 
into half a pint of boihng milk, stir over 
the fire until well cooked, then remove from the 
fire. Add one ounce of butter, two ounces of 
grated cheese, pepper, salt and cayenne to taste, 
also a teaspoonful of made mustard. Mix well, 
and pile on to a shallow buttered dish ; sprinkle 
over with breadcrumbs, grated cheese, a few bits 
of butter, and brown in the oven. 

NOUILLSS A IiA SUISSE. 

Prepare and roll out some nouilles paste, fold 
the roUed out pieces longways, and cut crossways 
into narrow strips. Loosen the strips and boil for 
a few minutes in salted water, drain, cool, and 
place in a stewpan with one ounce of butter, one 
ounce of grated Gruyere cheese, and two table- 
spoonfuls of bechamel sauce. Season with pepper 
and grated nutmeg, stir over the fire until 
thoroughly hot ; dish up, sprinkle the top with 
fried breadcrumbs, brown in the oven, and serve. 

WELSH BABE-BIT. 

Cut into shoes four to six ounces of Cheshire or 
Gloucester cheese, put it into a stewpan with haK 
an ounce of butter, moisten with a tablespoonful 
of ale, season with a teaspoonful of made mustard 
and a pinch of .cayenne pepper, and stir over the 



i88 FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE SAVOURIES. 

fire until the cheese is melted. Pour it over hot 
buttered toast, and serve quickly. 

WELSH BARE-BIT WITH EGG. 

Mince finely half a pound of Cheshire cheese, 
mix it with an ounce of butter, two tablespoonfuls 
of fresh breadcrumbs, a teaspoonful of prepared 
mustard, and a well-beaten egg. Beat it well for 
a few minutes ; season with salt and pepper J;o 
taste, and spread on buttered toast. Put it in a 
hot oven just long enough to set, dish up, and 
serve. 

SCOTCH BABE-BIT. 

Shred four ounces of cheese, put it in a small 
stewpan with half an ounce of butter, half a tea- 
spoonful of prepared mustard, and pepper and salt 
to taste. Place in the oven or in a stewpan with 
boiling water just long enough to dissolve the 
cheese. Pour on a cheese dish with a hot water 
reservoir, or on buttered toast, and serve. If 
served on a cheese dish some fingers of toasted 
bread should be served with this dish. 

WELSH BABE-BIT, AMEBICAN STYLE. 

Chop coarsely six to eight ounces American 
cheese, free from rind ; put it in a saucepan with 
a wineglassful of old port or brown sherry, a tea- 
spoonful of mixed Colman's mustard, a teaspoonful 
of Worcester sauce, a little cayenne pepper, and half 
an ounce of fresh butter. Stir over a good fire 
until the cheese is melted ; then add a well-beaten 
egg. Continue to stir until the egg begins to set. 
Pour this over some hot buttered toast already 
dished up, and serve immediately. 



CHEESE CONES. 189 



WELSH RABE-BIT, ENGLISH STYLE. 

Cut up rather small half a pound of Cheddar 
cheese, mix it with an ounce of fresh butter, a 
tablespoonful of fine breadcrumbs, a teaspoonful 
of mixed mustard, and season with salt and pepper ; 
work it together into a smooth mixture. Spread 
it on slices of toasted and buttered bread, place it 
on a dish in the oven until well melted, and serve 
quickly. 

COLD CHEESE CBEAMS. 
Crimes de Fromage. 

"Whip half a pint of double cream and stir in an 
ounce of grated Gruyere and an ounce of grated 
Parmesan cheese ; to this add about a gill of half- 
set aspic jelly, season with cayenne and a pinch of 
Krona pepper. Fill up some paper or china souffle 
cases with this ; when set, sprinkle the surface 
with Panurette. Serve cold. 

CHEESE CUSTABD. 

Beat up three eggs and stir in an ounce of 
grated cheese, season with cayenne, and add half 
a gill of cream. Pour this into buttered souffle 
cups and bake slowly. Dish up, and send to table 
hot. 

CHEESE CONES. 

Prepare a short crust paste with plenty of grated 
cheese mixed with the flour, etc. ; roll out and cut 
into oblongs or squares. Bake them in a hot oven 
and let cool. Spread the top of each with a mixture 
of whipped cream, grated cheese, and Krona pepper 
seasoning. Decorate the top tastefully with this, 
and dish up. 



igo FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE SAVOURIES. 

PUFF CHEESE PINGEBS. 

Batons feuilletes au Oruyire. 

Half a pound puflf paste, 2 oz. grated Gruyfere 
cheese, 1 oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, a few drops 
of lemon juice, a pinch of cayenne. 

Boll out the paste to an eighth of an inch in 
thickness, keep it a square shape and cut it in two. 
Put the cheese and butter in an enamelled sauce- 
pan, add about a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and 
stir over the fire till quite hot, then add rather 
more than half of the beaten yolks of eggs, a pinch 
of cayenne, and stir till the egg yolks begin to 
set; then remove from the fire and let cool. 
Spread the paste with this mixture, place together 
like a sandwich, trim the edges of the paste and 
cut into slices or fingers. Place them on a clean 
baking sheet about half an inch apart. Brush the 
top with egg yolk, sprinkle with grated cheese, and 
bake to a light brown colour. It will take from 
fifteen to twenty minutes. 

HOT CHEESE CREAMS. 

Coquilles a la Tacherin. 

One gill cream, 2 eggs, IJ oz. grated Gruyfere 
cheese, a little butter, cayenne pepper, brown 
breadcrumbs or Panurette. 

Use -plated or china cockle-shell dishes or small 
scallop shells for this dish. Eight to ten shells 
will be required. Separate the yolks from the 
whites of eggs, stir the yolks in a basin, add a tiny 
pinch of, salt and a pinch of cayenne, beat the 
cream till stiff, and mix alternately with the grated 
cheese into the beaten yolks of eggs. Whisk the 



SCOTCH WOODCOCK. • 191 

whites of eggs to a stiff froth and fold in carefully 
into the above mixture. Butter the shells and 
three-parts fill them with the preparation. Sprinkle 
some breadcrumbs or Panurette on top of each, 
also a few drops of oiled butter, place them on a 
balking sheet and bake in a fairly sharp oven for 
about eighteen minutes. Serve quickly on small 
cheese plates, or hand round on a large dish. 

ZIGABAS A IiA BUSSE. 

Mix a gill of well reduced bechamel sauce with 
a tablespoonful of double cream, allow it to get 
hot, and bind with the yolks of two eggs. Season 
with salt and a pinch of Nepaul pepper; when 
nearly cold add three ounces of grated Gruy^re 
cheese. Divide the mixture into small heaps, give 
each the shape of a cigar, and roll each in a leaf of 
very thin nouilles paste. Wet the edges of the 
paste with egg-white. Press the ends tightly 
together, so that the cheese mixture may not 
escape in frying. Dip into beaten egg and roll in 
breadcrumbs, shape again, and fry in hot butter 
or lard to a golden colour. Dish up, garnish vyith 
parsley, and serve. 

SCOTCH WOODCOCK. 

Have ready three or four pieces of well buttered 
toast, spread them thickly on one side with anchovy 
paste, place them on the hot dish, cover, keep 
warm. Beat up the yolks of three eggs, stir in 
two large tablespoonfuls of cream, season with 
salt and pepper. Stir it in a saucepan over a 
quick fire until the sauce thickens, then pour it 
over the prepared toast, and serve hot. 



192 FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE SAVOURIES. 



CHEESE AND HAM TOAST. 

Melt four ounces of chopped cheese in a sauce- 
pan over the fire, add two tablespoonfuls of hot 
milk ; season with pepper and salt. Have ready 
some buttered toast cut into oblongs, and lay a 
thin slice of fried ham on each. Spread the 
cheese mixture over this thickly, and serve quickly. 

TOASTED CHEESE. 

Pain grille au Fromage. 

Cut four to six ounces of cheese into small 
pieces, put it in a saucepan with half an ounce of 
butter, a tablespoonful of ale, a pinch of salt and 
pepper, and a little mixed mustard. Place the 
pan over the fire, and stir till the cheese is 
melted and smooth. Have ready some hot 
buttered toast dished up ready for serving ; pour 
the mixture over the toast, and serve quickly. 

BBOWN BBEAD CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Sandwiches de Vain noir au Fromage, 

Cut some slices of brown bread, butter them, 
cover with slices of Cheddar cheese, sprinkle with 
cayenne, and make them into sandwiches. The 
cheese should be about a quarter of an inch thick. 
Place them on a baking sheet in a quick oven 
until the cheese is melted, and serve as hot as 
possible. 

MACARONI. 

To cook macaroni properly proceed as follows. 
Take half a pound of macaroni, add two quarts of 
salted water. Let the macaroni boil for about 
thirty minutes, strain, and put back in the empty 
stewpan with a piece of fresh butter, and stir for 



MACARONI AV GRATIN. 193 

some minutes over the fire with a fork. Macaroni 
thus cooked form the basis for many savoury 
dishes. They can be served by adding tomato 
sauce, white sauce or brown sauce, grated cheese, 
chopped hard-boiled eggs, chopped truffles, etc. 

MACARONI AND POACHED EGGS. 

Macaroni aux CEu/s pocJies. 

Break half a pound of Naples macaroni into 
short lengths, rinse in water, put them in a fire- 
proof dish or saute-pan with two ounces of butter 
and enough milk to cover. Stir up from time to 
time, as they will swell whilst cooking. When 
nearly done, season with salt, pepper, and grated 
Parmesan cheese, dress the cooked macaroni on a 
dish, sauce over with rich brown sauce, and bake for 
ten minutes. Poach some eggs, trim and lay them 
carefully on the top of the macaroni, garnish with 
parsley, and serve. 

BAKED MACARONI WITH CHEESE. 

Macaroni au Fromage. 

Boil half a pound of macaroni in the usual way. 
When drained, add a pint of milk, two ounces of 
fresh butter, and four ounces of grated Parmesan 
or Cheshire cheese. Mix all in a stewpan over the 
fire and season with pepper and salt. Dress the 
mixture on a buttered gratin dish, sprinkle over 
with breadcrumbs and grated cheese, and put it in 
a hot oven to brown. 

MACARONI AIT GRATIN. 

Put some macaroni in a brown earthenware pot 
(fireproof), cover it with some beef broth, place it 
in the oven for about two hours, stir from time to 



194 FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE SAVOURIES. 

time, and add some stock, if reqtiired. When 
done, add a little hot milk, some grated Parmesan 
or G-ruyere cheese, and season with salt and 
pepper. Dish up on a buttered dish, sprinkle with 
breadcrumbs and grated cheese and butter. Brown 
in the oven or with a salamander, and serve. 

SPARGHBTTI WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 
Sparghetti a la Tomate. 

Sparghetti are a kind of macaroni, only much 
smaller. To cook them, have ready some boiling 
water slightly salted, steep in the sparghetti until 
soft. Strain and cool them in water, taking care 
not to break them. Put them in a stewpan with 
stock or water and cook for about twenty minutes ; 
then strain and drain. Moisten with a rich and 
well seasoned tomato sauce, put the pan in a hot 
oven for a few minutes, dish up, and serve. 

MACARONI A L'lTALIBlJflfB. 

Cut four to six ounces of lean ham into small pieces. 
Slice a small onion, and fry a golden colour in an 
ounce of butter ; add the meat, and toss over the 
fire until browned. Then add a sliced carrot, a 
few sprigs of parsley, a bay leaf, a little thyme, and 
a clove. Moisten with a glass of white wine, a 
little stock, and about a pint of tomato sauce. 
Allow to simmer for an hour, strain, and remove the 
fat. Have ready half a pound of boiled macaroni, 
well drained ; put these into the sauce with half an 
ounce of butter and one and a half ounce of 
grated Parmesan cheese ; season with pepper, salt, 
and aromatic spice. Stir over the fire for a few 
minutes, dish up, and serve. If too dry, add a 
little more sauce. 



Salads and Salad Sauces. 



Nothing can be more attractive and palatable 
than a well-prepared salad, and nothing can be 
more disagreeable than a badly prepared one. It 
is a well-known fact that salad should be seasoned 
with some kind of mixture which mostly consists 
of oil and vinegar, salt and pepper. Lettuces 
generally form the foundation of plain salads, but 
there are numerous other edible plants which are 
used for salads. On the Continent almost every 
known vegetable is made into a salad, as well as 
various kinds of cold meats, fish, game, etc. 

Although in England people are fond of mixed 
pickle, which is a salad in its infancy, they do not, 
as a rule, appreciate salads the same as foreigners 
do, as they cannot bring themselves to consuming 
" green meat " that is saturated with oil, which is 
really the first point of importance with salads. 
Sweet oils or other fatty substances used in the 
preparation of salads are not only good and whole- 
some in themselves, but they also preserve the 
flavour of salads in a remarkable degree. Good 
salad oil is considered the most digestible form in 
which oleaginous substances can be introduced to 
the stomach, for it has a medical value in its com- 
bination with raw plants. It is the lucca oil which 

195 



196 SALADS AND SALAD SAUCES. 

has the way of acting upon salads to bring out 
and preserve the deUcate flavour of the materials 
employed. 

Among the vegetables and herbs most suitable 
for salads, the following may be mentioned : 

Lettuces of all kinds, endives, batavias, water- 
cress, small cress, tomatoes, dandelion leaves, 
asparagus, cooked cauliflower, cucumber, cooked 
beetroot, French beans, broad beans, potatoes, 
radishes, celery, artichokes, parsley, basil, chives, 
hop sprigs, tarragon, chervil, mint, garlic, onions, 
shallots, sorrel and nettle-tops. 

It is essential to have the salad vegetables as 
fresh as possible. They should merely be rinsed 
in fresh water, and drained immediately after. 
If, however, the vegetables be withered, they will 
become crisp and refreshed by being steeped in 
water for an hour or two. When trimmed, 
washed, and picked, let them remain in a cullender 
or wire basket for a time. Lastly, swing them in 
a salad basket or dry napkin. The salad leaves 
should never be cut, but be divided into convenient 
pieces with the fingers. 

It is in the seasoning and dressing where the art 
of salad-making is exhibited. There is an old 
and wise saying I remember which runs thus : 
" Be a sage with the salt, a miser with the vinegar, 
a spendthrift v?ith the oil, and a maniac with the 
mixing." 

On no account begin mixing a salad until just 
before it is required. A wooden or horn spoon and 
fork are best adaptable for mixing salads. 

The salad-dressing is best left at the bottom of 
the salad bowls, and should not be mixed until a 
salad is to be eaten. It is well to remember that 
in composing a salad every plant or herb used for 



LETTUCE SALAD. 197 

its preparation should come in to act its part, like 
notes of music. 

FRENCH SPRING SAIiAD. 

Salade du PrHre. 

This salad is composed of young lettuce, the 
tender blades of young maize, red wheats, or 
Indian corn, and dandelion leaves. 

Break the lettuce leaves into small pieces and 
spread the blades of maize, etc., add a few 
finely minced onions and the dandelions. Put all 
in a salad bowl, and mix with two tablespoonfuls 
of salad oil, one of vinegar ; season with pepper, 
salt, prepared mustard, a little chopped mint and 
tarragon, and mix well together. 

SNDIVE SAIiAD. 

Salade de Chicoree. 

Carefully clean an endive, rinse in water, and 
drain the leaves ; arrange them in the salad bowl 
with some .garden cress, pickled shces of beet- 
root, and slices of hard-boiled egg. Season with 
salad dressing, and serve. 

LETTTJCE SALAD. 

Salade de Laitues. 

Binse some cabbage or coss lettuces ; drain and 
dry thoroughly ; break the leaves into convenient 
pieces. Prepare a dressing with finely chopped 
garden cress, tarragon, chervil, three yolks of 
hard-boiled eggs rubbed through a fine sieve, 
two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, one of tarragon 



igS SALADS AND SALAD SAUCES 

vinegar, and a little French mustard. Work all 
until smooth, and lastly add the lettuce, and serve. 

LETTUCE SALAD, PLAIN. 

Wash, clean and break the lettuces as described 
in the foregoing recipe ; season over with oil, 
vinegar, chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, but all 
in proportion to the quantity of salad required. 

PBENCH LETTUCE SALAD. 

Salade ot, la Romaine. 

Split some French coss lettuces down the stalk ; 
divide each leaf into three or four pieces ; rinse 
in cold water ; shake well in a wire salad basket. 
Place the lettuces in a salad bowl ; season with 
pepper and salt ; sprinkle over some coarsely 
chopped chives, tarragon, chervil, and parsley ; 
mix with two to three parts of salad oil to one 
part of French wine vinegar. The dressing should 
always be mixed in a separate basin or in a large 
ladle ; a little French mustard may be mixed vpith 
it, if liked. The mixing should be done with a 
wooden fork or spoon. 

Cabbage lettuces, endives, dandelion, and other 
salad plants, are prepared in a similar way. 
Pickled beetroot are usually mixed vnth small 
salads, such as corn salad, chicory, escaroles, 
watercress, etc. 

ENGLISH SALAD, No. 1. 

Salade a VAnglaise. 

Divide some coss lettuces dovyn the stalk, wash 
and drain them, break off the leaves, and divide 



Apple and cucumseR salad. 199 

each into small pieces. Pick, wash, and drain a 
few leaves of mint, some watercress and a Uttle 
mustard and cress. Put these in a salad bowl, 
season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of moist 
sugar ; dress with one part of salad oil and two of 
vinegar, garnish with slices of pickled beetroot, 
shoes of hard-boiled egg, and cress. 

engijIsh salad, ITo. 2. 

Wash two cabbage lettuces and one endive, 
rinse, drain, and dry ; break the leaves into small 
pieces, put them in a salad bowl ; add shredded 
celery and shoes of cooked beetroot on the top. 
Season with pepper and. salt, and mix with 
salad dressing, which should have a httle double 
cream mixed with the ingredients used for salad 
dressing. 

MIXED GBEEir SALAD. 

Clean, wash and drain equal proportions of 
cabbage and endives, watercress, small cress, 
shredded celery and spring radishes. "When pro- 
perly drained put all into a salad bowl, garnish 
the top with shoes of cooked beetroot and slices of 
hard-boiled egg. Season and dress with two table- 
spoonfuls of salad oil, one of tarragon vinegar, and 
the juice of half a lemon, a few chopped green 
onions, or chives, with tarragon, chervil, pepper 
and salt ; mix thoroughly, and serve. 

APPLE AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Saltzde de Pommes et de Concombres. 

Peel equal quantities of cucumber and sour 
cooking apples (cored) ; cut them into thin slices ; 



SALADS AND SALAD SAUCES. 



season with salt, pepper and lemon juice. 
Place all into a salad dish, pour over sufficient 
slightly whipped cream to cover, sprinkle over a 
pinch of Krona or paprika pepper, and serve. 

SWISS SALAD. 

Salade a la Suisse. 

Arrange in circular rows into a salad bowl, slices 
of ripe tomatoes, cooked French beans, green peas, 
and fill the centre with slices of cooked pickled 
beetroot and season with mayonnaise sauce or 
vinaigrette. 

CBLBBY SALAD. 

Salade de Cileri. 

Clean three or four heads of white crisp celery, 
also a coss lettuce; rinse and strain, shred the 
celery, along with the white parts of the lettuce 
leaves; put into a salad bowl, season with 
pepper and salt, dress with mayonnaise sauce, 
garnish with a few sprigs of watercress, and serve. 

SUPPEB SALAD. 

Clean two coss lettuces, cut them down the stalk, 
break off the leaves; rinse, drain, and cut them 
into very fine strips. Mince a hard-boiled egg and 
mix with the salad. Prepare a dressing Mrith two 
yolks of hard-boiled eggs rubbed through 
a wiie sieve, mix with two tablespoonfuls of cold 
white sauce, one tablespoonful of vinegar, a small 
quantity of finely chopped capers and gherkins, 
pei)per and salt. Pour the sauce over the salad, 
sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. 



TOMATO SALAD. 



GERMAN SALAD. 
Salade h I'Allemande. 

This salad is composed of sliced cold potatoes, 
brussels-sprouts, cauliflower, or any other kind of 
cold vegetable. The vegetable is cut into con- 
venient small pieces. Season with two parts of 
oil, one of vinegar, chopped parsley, pepper and 
salt. Garnish with slices of sour apples and 
cooked and pickled beetroot. 

TOMATO SALAD, No. 1. 

Tomates en Salade. 

Cut some ripe tomatoes into sHces, lay them in 
a salad bowl with a few thinly cut rings of a 
large Spanish onion, sprinklfe with chopped parsley, 
season with pepper and salt and a pinch of castor 
sugar. Dress with tarragon or malt vinegar and 
oil, serve with salad dressing, for those who 
prefer richer seasoning. The onion rings may be 
left out if not cared for. 

TOMATO SALAD, No. 2. 

Slice six tomatoes with a small proportion of 
cold potatoes; arrange both neatly in the salad 
bowl. Place the yolks of two raw eggs into a 
small basin, add pepper and salt to taste ; stir in 
drop by drop two tablespoonfuls of salad oil. 
"Wten thick, add the same quantity of vinegar 
and a few drops of chiUi vinegar ; pour this over 
the salad. Garnish with a few sprigs of parsley 
and shredded celery. 

s. D. ' o 



SALADS AND SALAD SAUCES. 



TOMATO SALAD WITH OLIVES. 

Scald and peel six to eight tomatoes. Slice 
them and mix with a few thinly-cut slices of 
cucumber ; arrange these in a salad bowl. Garnish 
with stuffed olives and slices of hard-boiled egg, 
sauce over with mayonnaise, sprinkle with lemon 
juice, and serve. 

ICED TOMATOES WITH MATONITAISE. 

Tomates frappSes en Mayonnaise. 

Steep six to eight tomatoes in hot water and 
remove the skin, drain them well. Scoop out the 
centre portions and place them in a tin surrounded 
with crushed and salted ice. Let them stand for 
two hours, they will then be partially frozen. 
Place each on a lettuce leaf on a dish, and fill the 
cavities of the tomatoes with a well-seasoned stiff 
mayonnaise. Garnish with parsley and serve. 

GBEEN PEA SALAD. 

Salade aux petits Pais. 

Drain a pint of cooked green peas. Wash and 
drain a nice lettuce, pull the leaves apart and 
arrange them in a salad bowl, season and place 
upon this a layer of cold lamb or chicken cut into 
small pieces. Next put a layer of peas and another 
layer of lettuce. Cover with the remainder of 
peas. Prepare a vinaigrette mixed with a little 
chopped green mint, pour this over the salad, and 
serve. 

SUMMEB SALAD. 

Salade d'J^tS, 
Cut a pound of cold beef into thin slices, put it 



WINTER SALAD. 203 



into a salad bowl with half the quantity of lettuce 
leaves. Season with five tablespoonfuls of salad 
oil, two of vinegar, a teaspoonful of salt, half of 
pepper, and a little chopped parsley. Mix all well 
together with a wooden fork and spoon, and serve. 
Note. — Instead of the lettuce, endive, celery, or 
cucumber may be used, in order to make a change. 
To vary the seasoning a little chopped tarragon 
and chervil, chopped gherkins^^ chopped shallots or 
scraped garKc can be added with the dressing. 
In place of beef, cold veal or mutton may be used. 

BEETROOT SALAD. 

Salade de Betteraves. 

Cut some boiled or baked beetroot into thin 
slices, chop a small, mild, cooked Spanish onion, 
mix with the root, and dish up. Season with 
pepper and salt, dress vnth oil and vinegar to 
taste, and serve. 

BREAKFAST OB IiUNCH SALAD. 

Salade du Dijeuner, 

Scald and skin six to eight ripe tomatoes and 
cut them into sections, the same as an orange. 
Slice a peeled cucumber, break up a few cleaned 
lettuce leaves into small pieces ; put all into a 
salad bowl, sprinkle some finely-cut spring onions 
over the salad, add some sea^soning of oil and 
vinegar or salad dressing, mingle well together, 
and serve. 

WINTER SALAD. 
Salade d'Hiver, 

Peel four small Spanish onions, stamp out the 

oa 



204 SALADS AND SALAD SAUCES 

centre with a long cutter, place a small piece of 
fresh butter in the cavity of each and braise them 
in the oven until quite tender. When cold, cut 
them into slices, and arrange these neatly in a 
salad bowl. Clean and bone a few sardines, cut 
them into small fiUets, and lay upon the onions. 
Garnish the top with slices of hard-boiled egg. 
Prepare a dressing with mayonnaise sauce, chopped 
tarragon and chervil, chopped gherkins, pepper 
and salt to taste ; pour over the salad, and serve. 

SALADE A LA BRISSE. 

Cut some cooked French beans into two-inch 
long pieces, and arrange in a salad bowl with 
strips of artichoke bottoms and slices of tomatoes. 
Pour over a good salad dressing, and serve. 

SAIiADE ST. GEOBGE. 

Cut a peeled cucumber and a cooked beetroot 
into fine shreds or strips, and mix with a cupful of 
boiled rice. Season with salad cream or mayon- 
naise and dress on artichoke bottoms (previously 
cooked and drained). Coat over with mayonnaise 
and decorate with truffles. 

MACi^DOINE SALAD. 

This salad consists of a variety of cooked vege- 
tables, all cut into small pieces or dice shapes. 
The following make a good selection. Asparagus 
tips, green peas, French beans, carrots, turnips, 
cauliflower buds, etc. Prior to seasoning, the 
vegetables must be drained on a cloth to be 
free from moisture, then dress with either vinai-- 



SORREL SALAD. 203 



grette or mayonnaise. Dish up and garnish 
suitably. 

BRUSSELS-SPROUTS SALAD. 

Season cooked cold brussels-sprouts with salt 
and pepper,, dress with oil and vinegar and a few 
drops of Tabasco sauce. Line a salad bowl with 
lettuce leaves and dress the above upon it. 
Sprinkle with chopped parsley or chives, and serve. 

OKRA SALAD. 

Clean and boil a pound of okra pods ; when 
tender, drain them and let cool. Cut them into 
thin slices and mix with a handful of grated horse- 
radish. Eub a salad bowl with a cut clove of 
garlic and put in a bed of lettuce leaves ; upon this 
place the okra slices, season with salt and pepper, 
and pour over some oil and vinegar dressing, 
garnish tastefully, and serve. 

SALSIFY SALAD. 

Cut some cooked salsify into short strips, put 
them in a salad bowl and season with salt and 
Paprika pepper. Mix two parts of olive oil with 
one of vinegar or lemon juice and pour over the 
salsify. Garnish with shredded lettuce leaves, 
chopped parsley and slices of beetroot. 

SORREL SALAD. 

Pick and wash well the young leaves of sorrel, 
drain them and put in a salad bowl. Season with 
salt and pepper. Mix with fried bacon slices cut 
into fine strips and serve. Boiled pickled pork 



2o6 SALADS AND SALAD SAUCES. 

can be used in place of bacon, and if liked a little 
vinaigrette sa^ice can be poured over the salad just 
before serving. 

BEETBOOT AND EGG SALAD. 

Salade aux (Eufs et Betteraves. 

Cut some cooked beetroot into medium-sized 
slices. To this add a similar quantity of sliced 
hard-boiled eggs. Season with one part of oil, 
tvs^o of vinegar, pepper and salt; sprinkle with 
chopped parsley, and serve. 

DUTCH BEETBOOT SALAD. 

Salade de Betteraves a la Hollandaise. 

Cut the cooked beetroot used for this salad into 
slices ; stamp these out with a fancy cutter, place 
them on a deep dish, and cover with vinegar. 
Boil some eggs hard; when cold, separate the whites 
from the yolks. Chop the whites coarsely, and 
stir into some aspic jelly, which must be whipped 
until it becomes a stiff but liquid froth. Put a 
little half-set clear aspic jelly into a mould, upon 
this put a layer of pickled beetroot, shredded 
lettuce and small cress, and pour a little whipped 
aspic between each layer. Proceed thus until the 
mould is full and allow it to set. When firm, 
turn out on a dish. Spread a layer of stiff mayon- 
naise sauce over top and side. Garnish with 
slices of beetroot, parsley, and hard-boiled yolks of 
eggs, and serve. 

EGG SALAD. 

Salade aux CEufs. 

Shoe three or four hard-boiled eggs and season 



SWISS CHICKEN SALAD. 207 

with pepper and salt. Put in a salad bowl or deep 
dish some crisp lettuce leaves, season and arrange 
the slices of eggs on this and pour over a dressing 
of oil and vinegar. Sprinkle over chopped parsley, 
and serve. 

CUCUMBEB AND TOMATO SALAD. 

Salade de Concombres et Tomates. 

Sprinkle the bottom of a salad dish with finely- 
chopped shallots ; peel a cucumber and cut it into 
transparent slices. Lay these into the dish with 
one-third of the quantity of sliced ripe tomatoes. 
Squeeze the juice of half a lemon over this and 
two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, season with pepper 
and salt, mix gently. Ornament the top with 
thin slices of lemon cut into quarters, slices of 
cucumber and tomato. .Sprinkle with a little 
freshly chopped parsley. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Salade de Concombres. 

Peel and sUce thinly a cucumber, season with 
pepper and salt, place it on a hair sieve to drain ; 
arrange in a salad dish, season and dress with two 
parts of salad oil to one of vinegar. If liked, this 
.salad can be dished up in small glass dishes. 
Sprinkle over with chopped parsley, and serve. 

SWISS CHICKEN SALAD. 

Salade de Poulet a la Suisse. 

Prepare some finely shredded lettuces, celery 
and beetroot, season and mix with mayonnaise, 
fill up a border mould previously lined with 



2o8 SALADS AND SALAD SAUCES. 

aspic jelly, and cover the mould with it. When 
firm, tnrn out on a dish. Have the white 
portions of a cold fowl cut into small shreds, and 
pile these in the centre of the dish; mask the 
centre with stiff mayonnaise enriched with a 
small quantity of whipped cream. Garnish the 
top of the border with thin rings cut from whites 
of eggs, and some rings stamped out (3f slices of 
beetroot. Chop a small truffle finely, sprinkle 
over the top, and serve. 

CBAB SALAD. 

Shred the meat of two nice crabs, and season 
with two or three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, salt 
and pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of olive oil. 
Mix with some chopped parsley. Serve on a bed 
of crisp lettuce leaves, and garnish the dish with 
slices of hard-boiled egg, capers and olives. 

SHBIMF SALAD. 

Salade d'Ecrevisses. 

Pick some shrimps or crayfish tails, mix these 
with two chopped red chillies, one large peeled 
and sliced cucumber, and season with pepper and 
salt. Dish up rather high on a deep dish, dress 
with oil and vinegar or mayonnaise. Garnish 
with slices of cucumber and olives. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Salade aux Huitres. 
Twelve large sauce oysters, 1 gill mayonnaise 
dressing, 1 lettuce, J head celery, pickled beetroot 
and gherkins. 



POTATO SALAD. 209 



Paorboil the oysters in their own Hquour (care 
must be taken not to let the oysters boil), drain 
them, remove the beards, and cut them in halves. 
Wash and trim the lettuce, shred It rather coarsely. 
Wash and pare the celery, and cut into fine shreds. 
Put a layer of lettuce in a salad bowl, upon this 
put a tablespoonful of mayonnaise, mix the oysters 
and celery with mayonnaise, dress this neatly upon 
the lettuce, etc., cover with lettuce and more 
mayonnaise. Garnish with fanciful cut slices of 
beetroot and gherkins, and serve. 

COLB MEAT SALAD, FBBNCH STYLE. 

Salade de Tiande a la Frangaise, 

Cut some cold roast or boiled meat into very 
thin slices, about two or three inches in length 
and one inch broad. Chop finely four anchovy 
fillets, one shaUot, one small button onion, and a 
Utile parsley. Place these in a salad bowl, mix 
with two tablespoonfuls of oil, one of wine vinegar, 
a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar, a little 
French mustard, pepper and salt. Stic weU and 
add the cold meat a few slices at a time, so as to 
get them thoroughly seasoned. Cover and let it 
stand for two hours, then dish up. Garnish with 
parsley and pickles, and serve. 

POTATO SALAD, No. 1. 

Salade de Pommes de Terre. 

Cut up some cold potatoes into round or oblong 
slices, the thickness of a penny piece. Eub the 
salad bowl with a small cut onion, garhc or shaUot ; 
lay in the slices of potatoes in rows. Pour over a 



SALADS AND SALAD SAUCES 



seasoning of two parts of oil, and one of vinegar, 
pepper, salt, chopped parsley, half a teaspoonful of 
Colman's mustard, and a little cayenne. Garnish 
with pickled red cabbage, slices of pickled beetroot, 
and some sprigs of watercress. 

POTATO SALAD, Wo. 2. 

Wash and boil in their jackets some small red 
potatoes, peel and slice them and dress whilst 
warm with 'a seasoning of salt, pepper, a table- 
spoonful of meat stock, two of oil and two of 
vinegar. Finely minced onion may be mixed vdth 
the salad if liked. Mix carefully, dish up, sprinkle 
over some chopped parsley, and serve. 

FRENCH POTATO SAIiAD. 

Pommes de Terre en Salade a la Frangmse. 

Pick out some small round potatoes, boil or 
steam them in their jackets, peel and slice them 
whilst warm, place the slices in layers into a salad 
bowl ; season each layer with a httle pepper, salt, 
chopped chives, parsley and shallots. Beat up 
three parts of oil, one of vinegar, with a small 
quantity of French mustard. Add this to the 
salad, stir it gently with a wooden fork and spoon. 
Garnish the salad with sliced pickled gherkins, 
olives, and pickled beetroot, and serve. 

GERMAN POTATO SALAD. 

Salade de Pommes de Terre a I'AUemande. 

The ingredients for a real German potato salad 
are small round red potatoes, boned sardines, 
pickled beetroot and celery, boned anchovies. 



BOLOGNA SALAD. 



capers and stoned olives. Boil the potatoes in 
their jackets, peel and sHce them whilst warm, 
and put in the salad bowl, the inside of which has 
previously been rubbed with a piece of garlic. 
Cut the sardines into small pieces, and cut the 
beetroot, pickles and celery into shreds ; mix these 
ingredients carefully with the potatoes. Season 
and dress with oil and vinegar. Mix well, dish 
up, and sprinkle over with some chopped parsley. 
Garnish with fillets of anchovies, capers and olives, 
and serve. 

POLISH SALAD. 

Salade a la Polonaise. 

Cut the meat of lobster into dice, and mix 
with an equal quantity of cold fish, shredded 
(sahnon or turbot), season and moisten vnth a little 
lemon juice and sherry. Cut a large peeled apple* 
into slices, also two ripe tomatoes. Shce two limes, 
and a piece of peeled cucumber. Eub a salad bowl 
with a cut onion, and arrange all the above in neat 
layers into the bowl, cover vsdth mayonnaise sauce, 
garnish the top vsdth sUces of cucumber, rings of 
onions, turned oKves,. capers, and lobster coral ; 
sprinkle vpith cayenne pepper, and serve. 

BOLOGNA SALAD. 

Cut some Bologna sausage into thin shces, take 
off the skin, dish up in circular rows with alternate 
shces of hard-boiled egg. Prepare a salad of 
shredded lettuce, beetroot and celery, seasoned 
with tartare sauce ; fill in the centre of the dish 
heaped up high, sprinkle with chopped parsley, 
and serve. 

* When apples are used for salad, they should as soon as they 
are out be thrown into cold water, to prevent them from getting 
brown ; when required for mixing they should be wiped with a 
soft cloth. 



SALADS AND SALAD SAUCES. 



SWEDISH SALAD. 

Salade a la SuSdoise, 

Toss together in a plain oil and vinegar dressing 
some Dutch pickled herrings (filleted), some flaked 
lax, cold boiled potatoes (sliced), sour apples cut 
into dice, and chopped gherkins, sprinkle it all 
with finely minced tarragon, chervil, and shaltot. 
Garnish with stoned olives filled vnth anchovy 
butter, and pickled oysters. 

FIiEMISH SAIiAD. 

Salade a la Flamande. 

Cut off the heads and tails of three Dutch 
herrings (soused), wipe off the skin, cut them 
slantwise from the bone, divide the fillets in two 
small strips. Put them into a salad bowl, and add 
three small sour cooking apples, peeled and cut, 
into strips, six sUces of cooked beetroot cut into 
squares, a little shredded celery, and a few cold 
brussels-sprouts. Season with oil, vinegar, pepper, 
salt, chopped chives or green onions, mix, dish up, 
and serve. Pickled prawns or shrimps may if 
liked be added to this salad. 

HAM SAIiAD. 

Salade de Jambon. 

Cut raw Westphalian or cooked York ham into 
very thin slices, spread each slice with a little 
Colinan' s mustard and roll them up into olive shapes. 
Prepare some cabbage lettuce as for salad, and 
place the leaves in the centre of a deep dish, upon 
this lay the ham olives. Garnish with spring 



SALADE CHASSEUR. 213 

radishes, quarters of hard-boiled eggs, slices of 
pickled beetroot, sprigs of watercress or small cress. 
.Serve with an ordinary salad dressing, which 
should be sent to the table separately in sauce 
boat. 

HAZELNUT SALAD. 

Salade d'Avelines. 

Soak half a pound of shelled hazelnuts in slightly 
salted water for twelve hours. Stone half a pound 
of Malaga muscatels, wash one or two white 
celery stalks, and cut them into fine shreds. 
Drain the latter well and put this with the other 
ingredients in a bowl, season with paprika and 
salt. Mix thoroughly with sufficient mayonnaise 
and whipped cream to dress the salad. Set it on 
the ice for two or three hours. Dress on lettuce 
leaves in pyramidal form. Garnish with whipped 
cream and capers, and serve. 

SALADE BOHEMIENNE. 

This salad consists of cabbage-lettuce leaves cut 
into shreds, slices of beetroot, and hard-boiled eggs, 
finely-chopped onion and chopped gherkins. It is 
dressed with a mayonnaise sauce flavoured with 
mustard. 

SALADE MIBETTE. 

Consists of piccalilly, cucumber and celery, all 
cut into julienne strips (the shape of matches) and 
dressed with mayonnaise. 

SALADE CHASSEUB. 

For this use firm tomatoes, cold potatoes, beet- 
root, truffles, celery and cooked chicken fillets, all 



214 SALADS AND SALAD SAUCES. 



cut into shreds or fine strips. Mix with tartare 
sauce, dish up, and cover the surface with chopped 
hard-boiled eggs. 

SAIiADE A LACHINOISB. 

Two large cold potatoes, 2 truffles, 18 large 
oysters, 2 cabbage lettuces, 6 anchovy fillets, 
1 glass of chablis, 1 teaspoonf ul of chopped parsley, 
1 teaspoonful of chopped chives, salt, pepper, 1 gill 
mayonnaise. 

Cut the potatoes into strips, shred the truffles 
finely. Blanch, drain, and beard the oysters, wash 
and trim the lettuces, and reserve a few crisp leaves 
for garnish. Put the potatoes, truffles, oysters 
(cut into halves) in a bowl, season with pepper 
and salt, and add the chopped herbs. Moisten 
with the wine and allow it to stand for one hour, 
mixing the whole from time to time. Pour off a 
little of the moisture. Add the lettuce leaves, and 
mix the whole with mayonnaise sauce. Dress in 
a salad bowl, garnish with a few nice lettuce leaves 
and the anchovy fillets. 

ITALIAN SALAD. 

Salade a I'ltaUmne. 

Prepare a mixture of a variety of cooked vege- 
tables, such as potatoes, beetroot, French beans, 
peas, celery, brussels-sprouts, buds of cauliflower, 
haricot beans, etc. Cut the potatoes and beetroot 
into slices, stamp these out with a small plain or 
fancy round cutter, cut the other vegetables into con- 
veniently sized slices, with the exception of the peas 
and haricot beans, which are left whole. Prepare 
equal quantities of each kind, put them into a 



TARTARE SALAB 1 LA SOYER. 215 

basin, add some cooked ham, fillets of fowl or 
game, all cut into shreds, pickles and anchovies ; 
season with salt, pepper, and tartare sauce ; mix 
well together, yet lightly. Dish up in a salad 
bowl, garnish with a few turned olives, capers, and 
some slices of marinated tunny fish {than marimA). 

RUSSIAN SAIiAD. 

Salade a la Russe. 

This salad is generally used for garnishing 
aspic borders, also for cold meat and fish entries. 
It is composed of a mac^doine of cooked vegetables, 
cut into small dice, or scooped out into oblong or 
round shapes. The mixture consists of beetroot, 
carrots, gherkins, parsnips, a few capers, crayfish 
tails, lobster meat, or prawns ; ham, tongue or any 
other kind of cooked cured meat is cut up in 
dice. All these ingredients are mixed in a basin 
and seasoned with very stiff tartare sauce. It is 
then dished up in a salad bowl, or set in aspic jelly. 
When dished up, garnish with small round balls 
of pressed Eussian caviare and finely scraped 
horseradish. 

TARTARE SALAD A LA SOYER. 

Make a very thin flat border of fresh butter, 
about half an inch from the edge of the dish you 
intend to serve the salad on, cut some hard-boiled 
shelled eggs into quarters lengthwise ; fix these 
upright close to each other, on to the border, 
arrange them so that the yolks and whites are set 
alternately; if the tips of the eggs are cut off 
they vdll stand firmer on the border. Put in the 



216 SALADS AND SALAD SAUCES. 

centre a layer of freshly cleaned and drained 
green salad, lay some small pieces of lobster meat 
over this ; season and dress with salt, pepper, 
nutmeg, chopped onions, parsley, a little oil and 
vinegar; garnish -with shoes of gherkins and 
stoned olives, and serve. 



MIIiANESE SALAD. 

Salade a la Milanaise. 

Eemove the meat from a cold roast or boiled 
fowl, cut it into small strips (a la julienne), shred 
a little lean ham, the same quantity of tongue, and 
mix with the chicken meaC Place this in the 
centre of a dish, arrange a border round the dish 
composed of finely shredded seasoned lettuces, 
endives, and celery. Stamp out some rounds of 
sliced beetroot and artichoke bottoms, garnish the 
border with these. Sauce the centre with 
mayonnaise dressing, decorate with rings of hard- 
boiled white of eggs, and serve. 



BIRD'S ITEST SALAD. 

Procure a cream cheese and mix with it a dessert- 
spoonful of chopped parsley and a similar quantity 
of finely chopped almonds or walnuts. Season 
with salt and Krona pepper. Make this up into 
small balls the shape of tiny eggs. Spht on three 
shredded wheat biscuits, stamp out six or eight 
rounds, to represent nests, put a dessertspoonful 
of mayonnaise in each and place the cheese balls 
in them. Decorate the edge of each v?ith creamed 
herb butter, dish up and serve. 



MUSHROOM SALAli 2if 

SWEETBREAD SALAD. 

Salade de Bis de Veau. 

Cut a small cooked sweetbread into dice, and 
mix with twice its quantity of shredded lettuce. 
Whip up some cream and mix with mayonnaise. 
Add a sufficiency of this to season the salad. 
Dish up,- garnish with slices of lemon, gherkins, 
hard-boiled eggs and chopped parsley. 

CALF'S BBAIN SALAD. 

Wash, skin, blanch and cook a pair of brains, 
drain them and cut into dice. Make up into salad 
as directed in the foregoing recipe. 

TRUFFLE SALAD. 

Salade aux Truffes. 

This salad consists of finely shredded Perigord 
truffles and an equal quantity of white celery, cut 
into inch long shreds. Season lightly with royal 
salad sauce, and dish up in a heap in the centre of 
a dish. Garnish round the edge with chopped 
whites and yolks of hard-boiled eggs, and serve. 

MUSHROOM SALAD. 

Salade aux Champignons, 

Peel, trim, and wash a basket of cup mushrooms, 
drain and cut them into dice, and put thfem in a 
saute-pan with a little oil and a sHce or two of 
lemon rind. Let this all simmer for a little time, 
then set it aside to drain. When quite cold lay it 
in a salad-bowl with chopped parsley, chives (or 
S. D. P 



SALAbS AND SAlAD SAUCES. 



shallot), pepper and salt ; toss it all in a mixture 
of oil and vinegar as recommended for Salade k la 
Fran9aise, and serve. 

GAME SALAD. 

Salade de Gihier. 

Eemove the meat of any kind of cold roast 
game, cut it into neat pieces, put in a deep dish, 
season with pepper and salt. Pour over some 
Lucca oil, a little tarragon vinegar, and the juice 
of a lemon ; lay a bay leaf and a few slices of lemon 
with the meat, and let it stand for a few hours, 
turning it from time to time, so as to incorporate 
the seasoning with the meat. Shred finely some 
clean and dry lettuce leaves, place some of these at 
the bottom of a salad bowl, then a layer of the 
meat, and finish up with a layer of meat. See 
that the last layer is neatly and smoothly arranged. 
Ornament the top with some slices of hard-boiled 
eggs. Pour some mayonnaise over the salad just 
before it is served. The dish may be garnished 
with slices or quarters of hard-boiled eggs, curled 
celery, and neatly cut dice of aspic jelly. 

BELGIAN SALAD. 

Salade a la Beige. 

Prepare and clean six or eight heads of Belgian 
endive. Wash thoroughly, cut or break into con- 
venient pieces and drain. Mix a can of preserved 
Spanish pimentos, previously drained with the 
endive, season with salt, pepper, oil and vinegar, 
etc., as used for ordinary salads. Blend well and 
serve. 



INDIAN SALAD. zig 



AMERICAN SALAD. 

Salade a V Americaine. 

Take the white leaves of a soUd, close-hearted 
cow-cabbage, cut them into fine shreds, mix with 
a few pickled chilli pods. Dish up, season with 
mayonnaise sauce, and serve. 

CHRYSANTHEMUM SALAD. 

Pick, wash and drain the flowers, place them 
in a basin and mix with a Kttle vinaigrette or 
mayonnaise sauce ; arrange in a heap xa a glass 
dish, garnish with shredded truffles, celery and 
Indian pickles, and serve. 

Chrysanthemum flowers are also very delicious 
if cooked in sUghtly salted water with a clove, and 
served hot with a chutney or curry sauce. 

INDIAN SALAD. 

Salade a I'lndienne. 

Pick the leaves and flowers of the giant nas- 
turtium plant, steep them in cold water, and drain 
on a napkin or soft cloth. Cut the leaves into 
small pieces, add a small quantity of peeled and 
cored apple sHces and some thinly sUced cucumber. 
Mix up and put in a salad bowl, garnish with 
shoes of limes, small bunches of mustard and 
cress, and a few crimson capsicum pods and the 
nasturtium^owers. Serve with a mayonnaise sauce, 
to which some preserved tamarinds have been 
added, and a little fineljr chopped garHc or shallot. 

In India this salad is also served with a kiad 
of vinaigrette sauce prepared with two parts of 

pa 



SALADS AND SALAD SAUCES. 



vinegar, one of oil, salt, black pepper, cayenne, 
and chopped parsley and moist sugar. 

LOBSTEB SALAD. 

Salade de Homard, 

Take the meat out of the lobster shell, cut it 
into small pieces, place it alternate with layers of 
small pieces of lettuce and endive in a salad dish. 
Season with pepper and salt, dress with mayonnaise 
sauce. Garnish with quarters of hard-boued eggs, 
sliced beetroot, fillet of anchovies and parsley. 

Almost any kind of cold fish can be prepared in 
this way. 

GERMAN LOBSTER SALAD. 

Pick the flesh out of the body and claws of one 
or more large boiled lobsters, cut it into strips, and 
lay them in a salad bowl. Mince up according to 
the quantity of salad required one to three shallots, 
parsley, tarragon, chervil, very fine, season with 
salt, pepper, very little oil and vinegar, and mix 
with the lobster meat. Pour over some mayonnaise 
sauce made with yolks of eggs, oil, salt, a little 
chilli vinegar, and a glass of Ehine wine. Garnish 
with coarsely chopped whites and yolks of eggs, 
lobster coral, a few boned and rolled anchovies, 
and capers. Small round caviare croutons placed 
in a border round the dish are an improvement. 

SALADE DU GOURMET. 

Shred finely the white parts of some coss lettuce 
leaves and the white stalks of some celery. Season 
with salt, pepper, and cayenne ; dress with a small 
quantity of Boyal salad sauce ; pile up Hghtly but 



MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 



evenly in a deep dish. Gkimish round the edge 
with a border of thin sHces of Lyon sausage and 
tongue, so that one slice overlaps the other, sprinkle 
the top with coarsely chopped truffles and yolks of 
hard-boiled eggs (rubbed through a coarse wire 
sieve), sprigs of parsley, and serve. 

SAIiADE A LA CABBANOVA. 

Cut equal quantities of beetroot, white celeiy, 
artichoke bottoms and black truffles into thin 
strips (d la julienne) about an inch and a half 
long, place them in a bowl, and season with a little 
mayonnaise sauce to which a small quantity of 
French mustard has been added. Mix Ughtly, so 
as not to break the vegetable ; dish up in the centre 
of a deep round dish ; sprinkle over with chopped 
parsley and chopped hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and 
serve. 

MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Put three yolks of raw eggs in a basin, and add 
a httle pepper and salt. Stir round quickly with 
a wooden spoon, adding drop by drop about half 
a pint of Lucca_oil, and about three-quarters of a 
giU of vinegar. Stir until it has the appearance of 
a firm and smooth substance. 

MAYONNAISE DBESSING. 

^eat up the yolks of two raw eggs with a httle 
salt. Use a wooden spoon, and stir until thoroughly 
smooth. Add a dessertspoonful of thickly mixed 
mustard ; pour in by degrees, and at intervals, 
whilst stirring, three-quarters of a pint of salad oil, 
and about a ^U of tarragon, French wiae, or malt 



SALADS AND SALAD SAUCES, 



vinegar. Stir until it has the appearance of a 
creamy substance. This dressing will keep for a 
long time if kept in a corked bottle. It will 
improve its keeping properties if a tablespoonful of 
boiling water is stirred in drop by drop just before 
bottling. 

BOYAIi SALAD SAUCE. 

Sauce froide a la Royale, 

Pound in a mortar six yolks of hard-boiled eggs, 
six Gorgona anchovies, washed, vnped, and boned, 
a small handful of capers, three tablespoonfuls of 
French mustard, together with two yolks of raw 
eggs; then add a few blanched tarragon and 
chervil leaves, work in by degrees three-quarters of 
a pint of salad oil, and a gill of vinegar. Work 
into a smooth substance, and pass through a fine 
hair sieve or tammy cloth. Salt, pepper, and 
cayenne may be added before or after it is passed. 

This makes an excellent dressing for all kinds of 
salading ; it is also used for broUed fish or meat 
dished, served dt, la tarta/re. 

TAB.TARE SAUCE. 

Prepare some mayonnaise sauce, adding there- 
with a small quantity of French mustard, or 
Colman's mustard, a few finely minced gherkins, 
a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and a small 
quantity of chopped chives or spring onions, 
tarragon and chervil leaves. 

SALADE A LA REPORME. 

Shred finely some large black truffles, the whites 
of hard-boiled eggs, three times the quantity hx 



/ 

My -OWN- SALAD DRESSING. 223 

proportion to the truffles ; season with mayonnaise 
sauce. Mix up gently, and -dish up. Serve as 
salad with cold or hot fish, cold poultry, or game. 

VINAIGRETTE SAUCE. 

This sauce is principally used for cold meat 
salads, but will serve equally well as an ordinary 
salad dressing for green salads. 

A vinaigrette sauce is composed of two parts of 
salad oil, one of vinegar, pepper, and salt to taste, 
a few chopped capers, gherkins, shallots or chives, 
tarragon and chervil leaves, and parsley, all finely 
chopped. 

Besides salads, vinaigrette is suitable for almost 
any kind of cold meat, fish and vegetables ; and 
especially for calf's head, calf's brain, salmon, 
trout, turbot, sliced hard-boiled eggs, asparagus, 
green artichokes, fonds of artichokes, etc. When 
so dressed they are termed d la vinaigrette, and 
are garnished with capers, gherkins, fillets of 
anchovies, beetroot, hard-boiled yolk and white of 
eggs, etc. 

MY " OWN " SALAD DRESSING. 

Eub the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs through 
a fine sieve ; mix gradually with a tablespoonful of 
fresh cream, and add three tablespoonfuls of Lucca 
oil, a teaspoonful of fine salt, one half of castor, 
sugar, one half of prepared mustard and cayenne, 
or Krona pepper to taste. Mix these well together, 
and add gradually three tablespoonfuls of malt or 
wine vinegar ; stir until thoroughly smooth. Use 
for salads, or serve with cold fish or meat. 



224 SALADS AND SALAD SAUCES. 



TARRAGON MAYONlfAISE SAUCE. 

Place three yolks of raw eggs in a basin, season 
with pepper and salt ; stir with a wooden spoon, 
adding by degrees half a pint of salad oil, half a 
giU of tarragon vinegar, the juice of half a lemon, 
and a few drops of chilli vinegar. 

Mayonnaise sauces can be flavoured with shallot 
vinegar, basil vinegar, tomato vinegar, according 
to the palate or taste. 

SALAD MIXTURE. 

The following ingredients prepared in the pro- 
portions stated make an excellent dressing for 
fish, meat or vegetable salads : 

Three yolks of hard-boiled eggs, rubbed through 
a sieve; one dessertspoonful of Colman's mustard; 
one dessertspoonful of salt ; three dessertspoonfuls 
of Worcester sauce or mushroom ketchup; six 
tablespoonfuls of salad oil; four dessertspoonfuls 
of vinegar ; and one teaspoonful of white or black 
pepper. Stir well, and pour over the salads in pro- 
portion to the quantity of salad required. 

PARISIAN SALAD DRESSING. 

Eemove the yolks from three hard-boiled eggs, 
break two raw eggs, separate the yolks from the 
whites and drop the whites into boiKng water to 
harden, and put them vnth the other whites. Mash 
up in a bowl the three yolks of hard-boiled eggs ; 
add the raw yolks to moisten, season with salt, 
white pepper, and cayenne ; stir in drop by drop 
five tablespoonfuls of salad oil and two of tarragon 
or wine vinegar, also half a tablespoonful or more 



SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL. 225 

of finely chopped onions, the same of chervil and 
chives. When worked quite smooth, add either 
two tablespoonfuls of rich cream, or else melted 
butter, then chop finely the whites of the eggs, 
add them to the salad, and use the dressing as 
required. 

SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL. 

As some people have a strong objection to oil, 
the following dressing, which is free from it, may 
be found useful. 

To a gill of cream add half a gill of light vinegar 
(French wine) . Cream an ounce of butter with three 
egg yolks, add a teaspoonful of Colman's mustard 
(mixed), salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful of castor 
sugar, and stir in gradually the cream and vinegar. 
Use thus, or if liked it can be stirred over the fire 
till it thickens, like cream ; the latter is a difficult 
process, as the cream is apt to curdle. 



Cookery for the Sick & Convalescent 

Compiled toy C. HERMAN 8ENN. 

This is a new book giving lucid and accurate directions as to 
the best ways of preparing 

ALL KINDS OF DISHES, 

FOOD AND DRINK, 

FOR THE SICK-ROOM. 

Price 9cl., post free lOd. 

THE FOOD AND COOKERY PUBLISHING AGENCY, 

329 Vauxhall BFidg:e Road, London, S.W. 



Sour Fruit Salads. 



SoTTB fruit salads can either be served as Hors- 
d'OEuvre or as an accompaniment with roast game, 
birds and poultry; they are also most delicious 
served with grilled, fried, or braised salmon and 
trout. 

TOMATO AND PEAB SALAD. 

Salade aux Tomates et Poires. 

Cut some ripe tomatoes and thinly peeled pears 
into slices, in equal proportions, lay them in a 
deep dish, dust with salt and pepper, cover over 
with mayonnaise sauce, and serve. 

LEMON AND APPLE SALAD. 

Salade aux Citrons et Pommes, 

Peel some thin rinded Messina lemons, and 
green sour cooking apples. Core the latter ; slice 
equal quantities of lemons and apples into a dish. 
Season with moist sugar, pepper and salt, dress 
with oil and vinegar ; mix well, and serve. 



MELON SALAD. 227 



AFFIiE SALAD, FlBlMaORB STYLE. 
Salade de Pommes a la P&rigord, 

Procure some sour codling apples, cut them into 
thin slices, stamp out the cores, but do not peel 
them. Slice an equal quantity of cucumber, put 
these into a salad bowl, and add a few thin rings 
of Spanish onion, and a few black truffles sliced 
thinly. Mix aU well, keeping a few of the best 
slices of each to garnish the top, with a few 
turned olives. Season with pepper and salt ; 
dress with oil and vinegar, and serve. 

PEAR AND PLUM SALAD. 

Salade de Poires et Pruneauss. 

Skin some large ripe but sound Victoria plums, 
stone them, and cut into neat slices. SHce some 
pickled pears, and arrange the slices with the 
plums on a dish. Sprinkle with a little salt and 
pepper, cover over with mayonnaise sauce, decorate 
the top with chopped truffles, and serve. 

MELON SALAD. 

Salade de Melons, 

SUce the melon into a deep dish, add some 
slices of Spanish onions between, season with 
pepper and salt, cover over with a plate or small 
dish ; let it stand for half an hour. Pick out the- 
slices of onions, dress with two parts of salad oil, 
one of vinegar, and one of lemon juice ; dust with 
a little cayenne pepper, and serve, 



228 SOUS FRUIT SALADS. 



CHEBBY SAIiAD. 

Salade de Cerises, 

Eemove the stalks of one pound of ripe but firm 
and large cooking cherries. Stone them. Put 
half a peeled almond or peeled hazelnut in the 
centre of each cherry. Arrange a bed of shredded 
and seasoned lettuce hearts in a salad bowl or 
large glass dish, sauce over with a layer of 
mayonnaise sauce mixed with enough tomato 
purde to give it a pink tint. Eange the cherries 
prettily on top of this, sprinkle with lemon juice, 
and pour over a little tomato flavoured mayonnaise 
just before sending it to table. 

OBAKGE SALAD, No. 1. 

Salade d' Oranges, 

Wipe and peel some juicy Valencia or other 
kind of acid-flavoured oranges ; cut them into slices, 
remove the seeds, or pips, arrange the slices on a 
deep dish. Dress with salad oil and lemon juice, 
season with a little cayenne, and serve with roast 
game or duck. 

OBANGB SALAD, No, 2. 

Take three sweet oranges (Valencia or St. 
Michael's) and two Seville oranges, peel them and 
cut into thin rings, remove the pips. Place these 
alternately on a dish, in circular rows, so that each 
slice overlaps the edge of the other. Squeeze two 
small lemons over the fruit, also a little white 
wine vinegar, season with pepper, salt and cayenne, 
and serve. 



PICKLED LEMONS OR LIMES. 229 



OBANGE SALAD, No. 3. 

Peel some Valencia and blood oranges, taking 
care not to leave any of the white skin on ; break 
the oranges into their divisions, which must be 
done carefully, so as not to break the skin. , Put 
the pieces into a salad bowl, pour over two parts 
of oil, one of vinegar, and the juice of a lemon. 
Season with salt, pepper and cayenne ; dust with 
castor sugar, cover over, and let it stand for an 
hour, then serve. 

BANANA SAIiAD. 

Peel six firm but ripe bananas and cut them 
into slices crossways. Season with salt and pepper, 
and arrange neatly in a glass or ordinary salad 
dish. Pour over enough mayonnaise sauce to well 
cover the fruit, sprinkle the top with red Erona 
pepper seasoning, and serve. 

PICKLED LEMONS OR LIMES. 

Choose small fruit, wipe them and boil in water 
till tender ; insert two cloves in each and immerse 
in a strong vinegar, brine, or salted water for three 
or four days. These pickles form a favourite 
relish in Eussia. Besides being nice with cold meat 
or fish, they can be used for garnishing cold 
dishes. 



Oriental Dishes. 



INBIAN KEDGEBEE. 

Kedghre de Poisson a I'Indienne. 

Bemove the bones and skin from half a pound 
of cold fish (salmon, turbot, cod, etc.) ; chop finely 
a small onion, and fry the latter a light brown 
in a stewpan with an ounce of butter. Stir in 
an ounce of fine dessicated cocoanut, add half 
a pint of milk and the pieces of fish, and a 
hard-boiled egg chopped coarsely; season to taste. 
Cook whilst stirring for fifteen minutes, then 
add a dessertspoonful of curry paste, and two 
teaspoonfuls of boiled rice. Mix well together and 
cook for another few minutes; dish up and serve 
with some freshly toasted bread or toasted water 
biscuits. 

I3!fDIAN BHAUBTA. 

Bhaurte a I'Indienne, 

Boil in white stock two small onions, chop them 
finely, mix with about a pound of mashed potatoes, 
an ounce of butter, and season to taste. Butter a 
border or other mould, sprinkle with a mixture of 
fine breadcrumbs and curry powder. Fill the 
mould with the above, and bake in a moderate 

230 



CURRTED APPLES. 231 

oven for a quarter of an hour. Turn out on a hot 
dish, and serve with curry sauce. 

MADRAS HARD EGGS. 

CEufs durs a la Madras. 

Shoe thinly a large onion, put it in a stewpan 
with an ounce of butter, and fry until light brown. 
Take out the onion slices, add a dessertspoonful 
of curry powder, fry it in the butter in the stew- 
pan. Stir in a teaspoonful of curds, a table- 
spoonful of flour. Cook for a few minutes 
and moisten with a pint of gravy. Let all 
boil for ten minutes ; then add four hard-boiled 
eggs, cut into slices or quarters ; also the onions. 
"WTtien thoroughly hot season to taste, dish up and 
serve. 

CURRIED POTATOES AND APPLES. 

Pommes de Terre et Fomnes au Kari. 

Slice six cold potatoes. Peel and slice half the 
quantity of sour apples. Egg the slices of pota- 
toes, crumb them in a mixture of breadcrumbs, 
chopped parsley, and curry powder, and fry in hot 
fat. Dust the apples with flour ; egg, crumb, and 
fry them likewise. Dish them up alternately in 
the form of a border ; season with Krona pepper, 
pile up some fried parsley in the centre, and serve. 

CURRIED APPLES. 

Pommes au Kari. 

Peel, core, and cut into rings four large sour 
apples; dust the rings well on both sides with 
curry powder. 



232 ORIENTAL DISHED. 

Mince three shallots, fry them lightly in butter ; 
add the apple rings, and fry them gently until 
tender and of a nice brown colour. Have ready 
a good curry sauce ; dish up the apples neatly on 
a round dish, sauce over y/ith the curry sauce, 
and serve with plain rice. 

OBIBNTAL SAVOUBY OP BEETROOT. 

Better ave a VOrientale. 

Choose a nice-sized pickled beetroot, cut it into 
round sUces of even size; dust with cayenne 
pepper ; put a layer of anchovy paste on each 
piece. Prepare a mixture with one teaspoonful 
capers, one gherkin, and two chives, all finely 
chopped, one dessertspoonful of chilli vinegar, 
one tablespoonful of anchovy paste ; mix all well 
together. Spread a little of the mixture on top 
of each round, put a round slice of hard-boiled egg 
over the mixture, and sprinkle with a little 
chopped parsley. Serve hot with toasted bread, 
or cold, with picked and washed small cress. 

ZUBEEB RICE, 

Wash, drain and boil half a pound of rice in a 
quart of veal or chicken broth until nearly tender, 
and pour off half the stock. Colour the rice with 
saffron, which is done by boiling a scruple of 
saffron in a teacupful of broth, add this to the 
rice. Set the stewpan containing the rice near 
the fire, and let it stew gently until the broth is 
entirely absorbed by the rice. Season with pepper, 
salt, and a pinch of curry powder. Dish up and 
serve. 



MADRAS PRAWN Cl/RRY. 233 



MUTHA ZUDBEE, 

Prepare the rice as in the previous recipe, only 
add water instead of broth ; colour it with saffron, 
and when done add an ounce of castor sugar. 
Dissolve four ounces of butter over the fire in a 
stewpan, add the rice, and allow it to stew gently 
on the fire until the rice has absorbed the liquor. 
Dish up, dust with a little curry powder, and serve. 

SHEEP'S BREAD CROUTBS A L'lNDIENlTE. 

Stamp out some oval shapes of toasted and 
buttered slices of bread, sprinkle over with grated 
cheese. Place a slice of cooked sheep's or lamb's 
bread on each toast. Season with French mustard, 
a dust of curry powder, and a pinch of red pepper. 
Sprinkle some grated cheese and fried breadcrumbs 
over the top, place in a hot oven for about ten 
minutes, sprinkle with some chopped truffles, dish 
up, and garnish with fried parsley and lobster coral. 

MADBAS PBAWN CUBBY. 

Kari d' Ecrevisses a la Madras. 

Fry a finely minced onion in two ounces of 
butter in a stewpan, put in two dozen picked 
prawns, season with salt and pepper and curry 
powder, mix and keep hot. Put a handful of 
washed spinach in a stewpan, let it stew down 
with a little butter, but without the addition of 
water. When tender, pass it through a sieve into 
the stewpan containing the prawns. Let all 
simmer for a few minutes, then dish up, garnish 
v?ith croltons, and serve. 

s. D. . Q 



434 dUiENTAL DISHES. 



HOSSYNU KUBAB. 

Fasten upon small silver skewers alternately 
slices of apples and cooked meat (beef or mutton), 
cut into round slices ; between each apple and meat 
skewer a slice of onion. Sprinkle the kubabs with 
finely chopped shallots, cayenne pepper, and ground 
tumeric, and fry them in a stewpan with about 
four ounces of butter. Dish up, and serve with 
plain boiled rice. 

HOPTAHS OP CHICKEN. 

Hoftahs de Volaille. 

Eemove the meat of a boiled fowl, pound in a 
mortar with two small onions, previously boiled 
and minced, season with finely powdered mar- 
joram, cayenne pepper, and salt. Shape into 
small balls. Egg and breadcrumb them, and fry 
in hot fat or clarified butter. Dish up on a folded 
napkin, garnish vdth fried parsley, and serve. 

VEGETABLE CURRY. 

Kari de Legumes. ■* 

Cut some washed white celery into inch long 
pieces. Sprinkle the celery, some small onions and 
cooked brocoli with curry powder, and fry in two 
ounces of butter. Place all in the stewpan, add a 
cupful of good gravy, and stew gently until tender. 
Have ready a small quantity of hot mashed 
potatoes, seasoned with curry sauce and salt. 
Dish up in the shape of a border, dress the 
stew in the centre, and serve. 



CURRIED ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS. 235 

FISH CUBBY IN MILE. 

Kari de Poisson au Lait, 

Cut two small onions and two shallots into 
slices, fry lightly in butter ; add about ten ounces 
of cold fish, cut into small pieces or shreds, 
sprinkle with flour, and fry a light brown. Dredge 
with curry powder. Fry a little longer, and add a 
tablespoonful of flour. Moisten with four table- 
spoonfuls of cream, and a little stock or milk ; 
season with salt and mixed spice, and stew for 
half an hour, then add two tablespoonfuls of lemon 
pickle, dish up, and serve. 

WHITE CABBAGE CUBBY. 

Kari au Choux blanc. 

Shred the white parts of a firm cabbage, peel 
and slice a large sour apple ; sUce two small 
onions, and fry them in butter. -Place the cabbage, 
apple and onions in a stewpan; season with 
cayenne, black pepper, salt, curry powder, and 
tumeric. Let all simmer gently, moisten with 
the juice of half a lemon, and a Uttle strong 
gravy ; cover it closely, keep stirring occasionally 
until tender. Dish up in a border of plain rice. 

CUBBIED ABTICHOKE BOTTOMS. 

Fonds d'ArticJiauts a Vlndienne. 

Cut an Indian mango into shreds, peel and chop 
finely two small onions ; put both into a stewpan 
with an ounce of butter. Place eight or more 
artichoke bottoms, neatly trimmed, on top of the 
ingredients, moisten vyith rich curry sauce, and 



236 ORIENTAL DISHES. 

cook gently over the fire for half an hour. Have 
ready some boiled rice, shape a border on a dish ; 
dish up the artichokes in a pyramid in the centre. 
Sprinkle yfitla. salt and curry powder. Eeheat the 
sauce, and pour over artichokes. 

BENGAL POTATO CUBBY. 

Kari de Pommes de Terre. 

Cut up four small onions (peeled), pound them 
in a mortar, together with half an ounce of 
corianderseed, free from husks, a pinch of cayenne 
pepper, two ounces of finely grated cocoanut, and 
a little salt. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a 
stewpan over the fire, put in about half an ounce 
of timieric ; let it fry for a few minutes, then add 
half a pint of curds and the pounded ingredients. 
Let it boil up, and put in some slices of cold 
potatoes ; moisten with a little gravy to prevent 
it from burning. Let it simmer for a few minutes ; 
dish up, and serve as hot as possible. 

KABOBS A L'INDIBNNB. 

Cut into thin slices two large onions, also two 
large peeled and cored apples, eight slices of 
streaky bacon, and eight even-sized pieces of the 
lean part of a neck of mutton or lean veal. The 
pieces should, be round, and about two inches in 
diameter. Lay them out flat and sprinkle with 
curry powder, a httle ground ginger and salt. 
Fasten on skewers each piece of meat, with 
alternate slices of onion, bacon and apple. Wrap 
them in buttered paper, and either bake them in 
the oven or roast in front of the fire. They will 
take about half an hour to cook. Dish them up 



RABBIT PIE A LA BOMBAY. 237 

between borders of boiled rice, and take out the 
skewers. Pour over a little curry sauce, and serve. 

CURRIED VENISON 1 LA BARODA. 

Slice one or two sour cooking apples, without 
peeling them, fry them in one ounce of butter 
with half a Spanish onion cut into rings, add also 
one red carrot scraped and cut into round slices. 
When slightly browned, drain and put in a stew- 
pan, with a small bouquet of savoury herbs; 
moisten with half a pint of mutton broth, and 
stew the vegetables until tender. Eub all through 
a fine wire sieve. Mix haK a tablespoonful of 
curry powder with half an ounce of butter, put it 
into a stewpan with a dessertspoonful of lime or 
lemon juice ; now add the vegetable pur^e, a tea- 
spoonful of red currant jelly, and a little more 
mutton broth, if necessary, to form the consistency 
of a nice sauce. Stir the sauce over the fire, have, 
ready some slices of cooked venison, lay. them into 
the sauce ; stew gently for about twenty minutes. 
Season with pepper and salt to taste. Dish up, 
garnish' round the dish with rings of lemon, 
croutons of fried bread, and fried apple rings. 

RABBIT PIE A LA BOMBAY. 

Procure a rabbit, skin it, cut it up into neat 
joints, wipe them with a damp cloth, and parboil 
in seasoned water. Drain the pieces, and place 
them in a pie-dish with alternate layers of sliced 
tomatoes, shced hard-boiled eggs, and sliced Spanish 
onion. Season each layer with a little salt, 
cayenne pepper, a very small piece of finely chopped 
garlic and two finely chopped green chillies ; add 



238 ORIENTAL DISHES. 

also two cloves. Moisten with half a pint of stock 
or gravy. Cover with short crust or puff paste, 
ornament the top, brush over with beaten egg, and 
bake in a moderately heated oven for about an 
hour and a half. 

CHICKEN CUTLETS A LA BABODA. 

Draw and truss a nice fat chicken. Boil it in 
stock or water for half an hour, remove the skin, 
cut it up into pieces, free them from bones and 
gristle. Chop the meat finely, and put it in a 
stewpan, mix it with a small handful of fine 
breadcrumbs, a finely chopped small onion, a 
dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, the rind of 
half a leihon, finely chopped or grated, and a 
chopped green chilli. Season with salt, Nepaul 
pepper, and grated nutmeg, add a well-beaten 
egg, and a little chopped tarragon and chervil. 
Moisten with two tablespoonfuls of white sauce, 
stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, and spread 
out on a dish to cool. Shape into even-sized 
cutlets, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in 
boiliag butter to a light brown colour. Drain on 
a cloth ; place a small chicken bone in the smaller 
, end of each cutlet ; dish up in a circular form. 
Put a little fried parsley in the centre, and serve 
with a nice tomato sauce, slightly flavoured with 
finely chopped mango chutney. 

EABOBEB EELS. 

Wash and skin one large eel, cut it into pieces 
about two inches long. Slice a small Spanish 
onion, place a piece of eel alternately with a slice 
of onion, a small piece of green ginger, and a piece 



BUTTERED EGGS, INDIAN STYLE. 239 

of red chilli on skewers, and proceed thus until 
the eel is used up. Mince finely two shallots, 
fry them a little in butter ; add three cloves, one 
bay leaf, and a few cardamom seeds. Dust the 
fish, etc., on the skewers with mixed spice and a 
little curry powder, and place in the stewpan with 
the shallots, butter, etc. Allow it to fry gently 
until tender. Dish up in a pyramidal form, and 
serve with curry sauce and boiled rice. 

EGG FIBOSKIS. 

Put into a large basin three ounces of grated 
cheese, half a gill of cream, six ounces of fried 
breadcrumbs, two ounces of cleaned currants, a 
teaspoonful of castor sugar, about four ounces of 
flour, a pinch of salt and a little grated nutmeg. 
Beat up three whole eggs, and stir into the above, 
together with two ounces of oiled butter. Work 
well, so as to obtain a smooth paste ; if too thin, 
add a little more flour. Shape some even-sized 
balls, flatten each with the palm of the hand; 
fry in clarified butter, drain on a cloth, and serve 
hot. 

BUTTERED EGGS. INDIAN STYLE, 

CEufs brouiUSs a I'Indienne. 

Boil three eggs until hard, peel them and cut 
crossways into slices. Beat up two raw eggs, 
season with salt and pepper. Pour this in a 
buttered, deep silver dish, and lay in the slices of 
hard-boiled eggs, and a few small bits of butter. 
Dust with curry powder and cayenne. Bake in a 
moderate oven, and send to table in the same 
dish. 



240 ORIENTAL DISHES. 



CUBBIED EG&S A LA MADBAS. 

Boil six eggs until hard, peel them, and place in 
cold water until required. Mince half a small 
onion, fry with a little fresh butter. Add one 
dessertspoonful of curry powder, a finely minced 
sour apple, three to four chopped Brazil nuts, or 
six sweet almonds. Mix an ounce of cornflour 
with a pint of milk. Stir into the above. Let it 
simmer for fifteen minutes. Stir from time to 
time. « If too thick, add a little white stock. Cut 
the eggs in halves, and lay them in the sauce to 
get thoroughly hot through. Dish up the eggs 
neatly in a deep dish, strain the sauce over them, 
garnish with small bread croltons and lemon 
rings. 

CUEBIBD BICE. 

Wash, drain and boil six to eight ounces of rice 
in chicken or veal stock. When about half done 
add to it a finely minced onion fried in butter. 
Blend in butter half an ounce of curry powder, 
dilute it with a little cream, and add to the rice. 
Mix thoroughly, and finish cooking in a slow oven. 
Dish up, and serve. 

OTSTEE FBITTBBS, INDIAlf STYLE. 

Bdqnets d'Huitres a I'lndienne, 

Warm up two dozen large oysters in their own 
juice, but do not let them boil; drain them, 
sprinkle over with a little curry powder and a 
pinch of Nepaul pepper. Have ready some chicken 
forcemeat, spread over carefully each side of the 
oysters, then dip in some frying batter, and fry in 
clarified butter for five minutes. Dish up in pile, 
garnish with fried parsley, and serve. , ■ 



SAVOURY HOMINY. 241 



WEST INDIAN MULLIGATAWNY. 

Cut haK a chicken into small neat pieces, mince 
a small onion finely, cut two ounces of lean mutton 
into small pieces, dissolve two ounces of butter in 
a stewpan, add the onions and fry a Httle, then add 
the chicken and mutton. Let the whole brown 
for five minutes, add two ounces of rice, two sUces 
of egg plant, one teaspoonful of curry powder, and 
one green apple cored and cut very small. Season 
with black pepper, Nepaul pepper and salt. 
Moisten with a quart of chicken or mutton stock, 
and simmer for twenty-five minutes. When ready 
for serving add twelve blanched and bearded 
oysters and the juice of half a lemon. Dish up 
neatly, and serve. 

INDIAN CEAIPE TOAST. 

Take three well-beaten eggs, a finely cut green 
chUh, the pulp of two ripe tomatoes, an ounce of 
butter and a Uttle cream. Season with salt and 
pepper. Put all in a stewpan over a quick fire, 
and stir until set ; spread on hot buttered toast, 
and serve. 

BTJTTEBED PICKLETS. 

Toast the picklets on both sides, butter well, 
and spread with curry pa^te. Cut in four equal 
pieces, and serve with salt in a muffineer or 
inuffin dish. 

SAVOTTBY HOMINY. 

Beat up a cupful of cooked hominy in a sauce- 
pan, add half a pint of milk, and stir over the fire 
untU done ; then add an ounce, of fresh butter, 



242 ORIENTAL DISHES. 

three ounces of grated cheese, and a little mixed 
mustard. Season with salt and pepper, mix all 
well together, turn it into a well-buttered shallow 
dish. Strew over some grated cheese, and place 
a few small pieces of butter on top. Let it brown 
in a quick oven, or under the salamander, and 
serve hot. 

Note. — Coarse grain " Florador " may be used 
in place of hominy. 

KIDNEY TOAST A LA MADRAS. 

Skin three large sheep's kidneys, cut them long- 
ways into slices, and fasten upon skewers. Season 
with pepper, salt, and a pinch of Nepaul or 
cayenne pepper ; immerse in well-beaten egg, and 
roll them in fresh breadcrumbs mixed with a little 
grated lemon rind. Broil in a little butter in a 
frying pan over the fire. Have ready some crisp, 
well-buttered toast, spread it over with a thin 
layer of curry paste. Cut the toast into convenient 
pieces, remove the skewers, and place the kidneys 
upon the toast. SUces of broiled ham or bacon 
served with this dish are a great improvement. 

CURRIED CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Cut half a pound of cheese into small pieces, 
and pound in a mortar with three ounces of fresh 
butter and one dessertspoonful of curry paste. 
Cut some thin slices of bread, spread vsdth the 
mixture, and make up into neatly shaped sand- 
wiches. Scraps and pieces of cheese may be 
worked up in this way; the mixture can be 
put into a jar,, and will keep for some time if 
covered with a layer of clarified butter.. 



KHICHRI. 243 



INDIAN PEPPER-POT. 

Cut up into neat pieces cooked poultry or game ; 
put them into an earthenware fire-proof pan or 
jar. Add a convenient quantity of West Indian 
pickles, previously cut into small pieces, pomr over 
enough Poivrade sauce to well cover the ingredients . 
Put the whole into a hot oven for about half an 
hour, stir from time to time, and keep it covered. 
Serve hot or cold. 

Meat well cooked and covered with sufficient 
sauce will keep for some time if tied over with a 
bladder or parchment paper. 

KHICHBI. 

This is the Indian name for our famiUar 
"Kedgeree." It is made as follows: Take a 
medium-sized haddock, wipe it, put it in a baking 
tin with a little water, spread over with butter, 
and place in a hot oven for ten minutes. Take it 
up and remove skin and bones from the fish, flake 
or shred it finely, and mix with four ounces of 
freshly boiled hot rice ; add two ounces of melted 
butter, and season with salt, pepper, and grated 
nutmeg; heat up and mix with strips of 
green chilli. A teaspoonful of grated green ginger 
should also be mixed with the seasoning. The 
mixing should be done rapidly. Serve the dish as 
hot as possible. 



Miscellaneous "Recipes 
Sauces. 



SALTED PEANUTS. 

Procure some large shelled peanuts, put them on 
a baking sheet and bake slowly till the skin of the 
nuts begins to loosen. Take them out of the pan and 
remove the skins as soon as the nuts are sufficiently 
cool. Cover them with a damp cloth and allow to 
stand thus for about half an hour. Sprinkle with a 
mixture of fine salt and Krona pepper seasoning 
and allow to dry in the oven. Serve in small 
paper cases. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 

Amandes saUes, 

Blanch and peel some large sweet almonds. 
Drain them on a cloth and spread on a baking 
sheet. Bake them in a very slow oven to a pale 
brown colour, sprinkle over a few drops of liquid 
gum arabic, shake well and dust with fine salt. 
This is best done by means of a dredger. Shake 
the almonds till they are quite cool. Serve in 
little glass dishes or paper cases. 



HOW TO BOIL RICE FOR CURRIES. 245 

DEVILLED CHESTNUTS. 

Mai-rmis a la Didble. 

Boil some peeled chestnuts till tender, remove 
the inner skin, drain and fry them in sweet oil ; 
take up, drain and shake welL with fine salt and 
cayenne or Paprika pepper. 

CHEESE BISCUITS. 

Eub two ounces of butter into half a pound of 
flour and mix with it two ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese. Beat up an egg and work the mixture 
into a smooth paste. Eoll out, cut into rounds 
with a plain two-inch cutter. Place the rounds 
on a buttered baking sheet, prick them with a fork 
and bake in a sharp oven for about fifteen minutes. 

DEVILLED BISCUITS. 

Chop finely a tablespoonful of Bengal or other' 
chutney, mix a pat of butter with a teaspoonful of 
curry powder ; to this add the chutney and an ounce 
of grated cheese, season with cayenne pepper and 
mustard and mix thoroughly. Spread thickly 
some buttered plain biscuits vsdth this mixture and 
heat up on a buttered tin in a sharp oven. Dish 
up and serve quickly. 

Note. — Shredded wheat biscuits cut in halves 
lengthways may be used for this ; they make an 
excellent savoury. 

HOW TO BOIL BICE TOR CUBBIES. 

Carolina rice is best for this purpose. Wash the 
rice weU in cold water, drain it, throw it into a 
stewpan of boiling water, allovdng three pints of 



246 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES AND SAUCES. 

water to every quarter of a pound of rice. Let it 
boil over a quick fire from fifteen to twenty 
minutes, then strain. Put the rice in a basin with 
cold water, strain off into a cullender or sieve, and 
place before the fire, or at the mouth of the oven, 
so that it may dry and get hot. Stir it occasionally 
with a fork in order to loosen it. 

FRYING BATTER. 

Sift half a pound of flour into a basin ; add a 
pinch of salt, stir in half a pint of lukewarm milk 
or water and half an ounce of oiled butter, and 
beat up well with a wooden spoon. Allow it to 
stand for an horn: or more, then beat the whites of 
two eggs to a stiff froth, mix gently with the batter, 
and use same as required. 

PANCAKE BATTER. 

Sift four ounces of flour into a basin, add a pinch 
of salt and stir in gradually one beaten egg and 
half a pint of milk. Beat up well with a wooden 
spoon and allow to stand for an hour or so before 
using it. 

PASTE CRUST. 

Sift one pound of flour on to a paste-board, add 
a pinch of salt, and rub half a pound of butter 
hghtlyinto the flour, until the flour and butter are 
perfectly amalgamated. Make a well in the 
centre ; mix gradually with enough water to make 
a smooth paste. EoU it out, fold two or three 
times, and use as directed. 

Note.— Eub the butter in the flour with the 
tips of your fingers. If the paste appears too stiff 
add a little milk or water. 



FEUILLETAGE, OR PUFF PASTE. 247 



WOUILLES PASTE. 

Sift ten ounces of flour on to a paste-boaard, make a 
well in the centre, and add a pinch of salt, two 
whole or three yolks of eggs, also half an ounce of 
butter. Mix all well together, and knead for ten 
minutes. Should the paste appear too stiff add a 
very little water or milk; it must, however, be 
very consistent. "When required, divide in pieces 
and roll out very thin. 



FEUILLETAGE, OB PUFF PASTE. 

Sift a pound of flour on to the table or paste- 
board, form a well in the centre, put in half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a small piece of butter about the 
size of a walnut, and the juice of half a lemon ; 
mix with sufficient cold water to form a smooth 
paste. Allow it to stand for ten minutes. In the 
meantime wash well in iced water not quite a 
pound of butter ; knead it in a cloth, and give it 
a square flat shape. Flour the board, roll out the 
paste, giving it a square shape a little larger than 
the butter, and roll out the four sides somewhat 
thinner than the centre. Place the butter in the 
centre, turn in the four sides, so as to completely 
cover the butter ; flatten the paste and butter 
gently with the rolling pin, and roll out to 
about one-third of an inch in thickness. Keep 
in an oblong shape and fold in three ; this 
is termed a turn. Roll out again and fold as 
before, and allow it to stand on the ice for ten 
minutes. Give it three or four more turns, allowing- 
it to rest for ten minutes between each turn ; hen 
roll out and use as required. 



248 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES AND SAtfCES 



PLEUBOIirS. 

These are little sippets of puff paste referred to 
frequently for garnishing dishes. They are made as 
follows. EoU out a small piece of puff paste, about 
an eighth of an inch thick ; stamp out some half- 
moon or crescent shapes with a circular cutter, 
place them on a baking tin, brush over lightly 
with beaten egg, and bake in a quick oven. 

PANABE, OB PANADA. 

Half a pint of water, one ounce of butter, three 
and a half ounces of flour, and a pinch of salt. 

Put the water on to boil.addmg the salt and 
the butter. Sift the flour and stir into the water, 
etc. , whilst boiling. Stir vigorously with a wooden 
spoon over the fire until the sides and bottom of 
the stewpan are left clean. It will require about 
five minutes. Spread the mixture on to a buttered 
plate and allow to cool. Use as directed. 

DEVILLED BUTTER. 

Beurre a la Diable. 

Put a peeled shallot, a few sprigs of tarragon, 
chervil and parsley leaves in a small stewpan, 
with sufficient chilli vinegar to cover ; bring it to 
the boil, drain, and let it get cool. Wipe and bone 
three anchovies, pound them in a mortar with one 
dessertspoonful of curry paste, four ounces of 
butter, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and the 
herbs and shallot. Add a dust of cayenne or 
Nepaul pepper, rub all through a fine sieve, and 
use as required for devilled broiled meat, fish, 
biscuits, toast, etc. 



MARINADE. 249 



MAITBB D'HdTEL BUTTER. 

Knead an ounce or more of fresh butter with a 
dessertspoonful of finely chopped, washed, and 
pressed parsley, tarragon and chervil leaves (only 
a sprig or two of the latter two), a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice, a pinch of salt, pepper, and cayenne. 
Spread it on a plate, place on the ice to set, stamp 
out small, and use it with different preparations. 



ANCHOVY BUTTBB. 

Soak, vfipe and bone three Gorgona anchovies, 
pound them in a mortao: vdth an ounce and a half 
of fresh butter and a little lemon juice; pass 
through a sieve. Form some very smaU pats, 
place on broiled meats, or fish, and serve before 
the butter dissolves. 



MABINADE. 

For pickling Fish or Meat. 

To each quart of vinegar (malt or French wine) 
add one sliced onion, one sMced carrot, a sprig of 
thyme, one bay leaf, a small bunch of parsley, a 
dozen peppercorns, two cloves and half a sUced 
lemon. Boil up the vinegar with the above-named 
ingredients. Place the fish or meat which is to be 
pickled in a shallow dish or basin, pour over 
sufficient marinade to weU cover, and let it remain 
for twelve hours or more. White or red wine 
may be added in addition to the vinegar, andrwiU 
be found a great improvement. 

S. D. R 



250 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES AND SAUCES. 

GBEEN HERB BUTTEB. 

Beurre Montpellier. 

Blanch and drain a handful of parsley, tarragon 
and chervil, and a few chives ; pound in a mortar 
with a small peeled shallot and about three ounces 
of butter. Work well, and further, incorporate a 
dessertspoonful of anchovy paste, two chopped 
French gherkins, and season with nutmeg, pepper, 
and very little salt. Pound and mix thoroughly. 
Mix a few drops of spinach greening with a little 
butter,,and add to the above. Eub through a fine 
sieve, and use as required. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE (WHITE SAUCE). 

Dissolve one ounce of butter in a smaU stewpan, 
add one ounce of flour ; stir over the fire for a few 
minutes, just long enough to cook the flour, 
without allowing it to brown. Stir in a pint of 
boiling milk ; add a small onion stuck with a clove, 
ten white peppercorns, half a bay leaf, a sliced 
carrot, a pinch of salt, and a little grated nutmeg. 
Stir until it boils, and allow to simmer for fifteen 
minutes. Pass through a tammy cloth or napkin, 
return to the stewpan, and finish with a small 
piece of butter, and half a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice. 

MAITRE D'h6TEL SAUCE. 

Warm up one gill of bechamel sauce, add to it 
a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, a few 
chervil and tarragon leaves, and a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice ; work up with half an ounce of fresh 
butter, and serve. 



ESPAGNOLE OR BROWN SAUCE. 251 



ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

Prepare some bechamel sauce as directed on 
page 250, add a sufficient quantity of essence of 
anchovies to impart flavour and colour. A few 
drops of lemon juice tend to improve the flavour 
if added to the sauce just before serving. 

SUPB^ME SAUCE, 

Put an ounce of butter in a stewpan; when 
melted, stir in an ounce of flour ; allow it to cook 
a little. Add gradually a pint of seasoned chicken- 
stock, stir until it boils, and allow to simmer for 
fifteen minutes. Take off the scum, add half a 
gill of cream, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, a pinch 
of salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Pass 
through a tammy cloth or napkin, return to a 
clean stewpan, and finish with half an ounce of 
fresh butter and a small piece of chicken glaze. 

ESPAGNOLE OR BROWN SAUCE. 

Cut up into small pieces a small carrot, an 
onion, two ounces of beef or veal, and two ounces 
of raw or cooked ham or lean bacon. Put this in 
a stewpan with a few sprigs of parsley or some 
parsley root, a few small pieces of celery stalk, a 
bay leaf, twenty peppercorns, two blades of mace, 
a few sprigs of savoury herbs, and an ounce of 
butter. Allow it to boil over a quick fire until 
light brown. Strain off the fat, add two quarts of 
stock, half a pint of tomato conserve, and a gill 
of red wine ; allow to simmer for an hour. In 
the meantime dissolve in a stewpan tw;o ounces 
of butter or good dripping, add two ounces of 



i52 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES AND SAUCES: 

flour, and stix over a slow fire until brown, or 
put it in the oven, it which case it mil take longer 
to brown, but is less likely to burn. Strain the 
prepared stock, skim well, and add gradually to 
the prepared flour. Stir until it boils, and let 
simmer for twenty minutes or more. If found 
too thick add a little more stock. Season to taste, 
skim and strain. 

COLBEBT SAUCE. 

Put into a saucepan one gill of Espagnole or brown 
sauce, half a glass of sherry, one dessertspoonful of 
meat glaze, haK a teaspoonfulof lemon juice, boil up, 
skim and add one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
tarragon and chervil, and finish with a pat of fresh 
butter whisked in by degrees. 

DEMI-GLACE SAUCE. 

Take half a pint of gravy from roast veal, put 
it in a stewpan, and add a gill and a half of Espag- 
nole sauce and a small glass of Madeira or sherry 
wine. Let it reduce to the desired consistency, 
skim, strain, and serve as required. If you have 
no veal gravy, use other gravy or rich stock. In 
the latter case add a teaspoonful of " Lemco " 
extract of meat or meat glaze. 

POIVBADE OB PEPPEE SAUCE. 

Chop finely half a small carrot, half an onion, 
and an ounce of streaky bacon, put these in a 
stewpan with an ounce of butter, a sprig of th3^ne, 
and twenty crushed peppercorns. Fry for a 
few minutes, strain off the fat, and aldd half a 



TOMATO SAUCE. 253 



pint of Espagnole or brown sauce ; allow it to 
boil for fifteen minutes, skim, strain, and serve as 
required. 

ASPIC JELLY. 

One and a half pint stock or water, 1 large 
teaspoonful " Lemco " extract of meat, 4 cloves, 
20 peppercorns, 1 stick celery, or J teaspoonful 
celery salt, 1 gill sherry or chablis, whites and 
shells of 2 eggs, 2 oz. gelatine, 1 small carrot, 
1 turnip, 1 onion, 1 blade mace, juice and rind of 
a large lemon, 1 gill tarragon and Orleans vinegar, 
mixed, salt. 

Soak the gelatine in water, and put all other 
ingredients into a stewpan, add the gelatine, and 
stir until the gelatine is melted, whisk well until 
nearly boiling, and allow to boil up twice, and 
simmer for half an hour ; pour through a scalded 
jelly bag or clean kitchen rubber until it runs 
clear. This should make one quart of aspic. 
Allow it to set, and use as directed. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Put into a stewpan an ounce of small pieces of 
bacon, an ounce of butter, and a finely chopped 
onion. Fry a little, and add about a pound of 
ripe tomatoes, freed from the stems and cut into 
slices. Stir over the fire a little longer, then add 
an ounce of flour, previously mixed vpith a little 
cold stock or gravy; stir in gradually three parts 
of a quart of stock, add a few peppercorns, a few 
sprigs of savoury herbs, and parsley. Allow to 
simmer for haK an hour. Eemove the herbs, rub 
through a sieve, return to the stewpan, season with 



254 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES AND SAUCES. 

salt, a pinch of castor sugar and pepper; finish 
with a pat of fresh butter. 

TOMATO CBEAM. 

Stir into a gill of mayonnaise half a gill of well 
reduced tomato purfee, and one tablespoonful of 
whipped cream. Season and serve. 

SALMI SAUCE. 

To make this sauce correctly some trimmings of 
game or carcasses of birds are required. 

Chop finely three shallots and fry in a tablespoon- 
ful of salad oil in a stewpan over the fire. Add a 
bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, and some mushroom 
trimmings. Add the carcasses of birds (chopped 
small) and fry a little over the fire ; moisten with 
a glass of port wine, cover the stewpan, and let 
steam for five minutes, then add a gill of stock, a 
pint of Bspagnole sauce, and a teaspoonful of red 
currant jelly. Set all to boil for ten minutes or 
more. Skim well, and pass through a strainer or 
tammy cloth. Season to taste, and serve. 



ITALIAN SAUCE. 

Chop finely three shallots and twelve mush- 
rooms ; put these in a stewpan with a bay leaf, a 
sprig of thyme, and a tablespoonful of salad oil. 
Fry over the fire for a few minutes, strain off the 
oil, and add a gill of white wine and a gill of veal 
stock. Allow it to simmer for ten minutes. 
When well reduced, add about a pint of Espagnole 
sauce ; stir until it boils again, remove the thyme 



MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 255 

and bay leaf ; skim well whilst boiling for a few 
minutes longer. The sauce is then ready for 
serving. 

PIQUANTE SAUCE. 

Chop separately four shallots, three pickled 
gherkins, a tablespoonful of piccalilly, and a 
dessertspoonful of French capers. Put in a stew- 
pan with a bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, and a gill 
of French wine vinegar ; cover the stewpan 
and let reduce to half the quantity; Eemove the 
herbs, dilute with a pint of Espagnole sauce, 
season with pepper, boil up and skim. 

INDIAN CURRY SAUCE. 

Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, add 
a small onion, finely chopped, an ounce of finely 
sliced lean mutton, and a few sprigs of parsley. 
Stir over a slow fire for five minutes, then add 
two ounces of flour and a tablespoonful of curry 
powder. Let all fry for a few minutes, so as to 
cook the flour. Stir in a quart of veal or mutton 
broth, and the juice of half a lime. Allow it to 
simmer for half an hour ; stir occasionally. Pass 
through a fine strainer or tammy cloth, return it 
to the stewpan, "boil up and bind with a yolk of 
egg, a tablespoonful of cream, and half an ounce 
of butter. Stir over the fire for a few seconds 
longer, but do not allow it to boil again. 

MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

{Seepage 221.) 



256 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES AND SAUCES. 



MAYONNAISE CBEAM. 

Stir into one gill of stiff mayonnaise sauce half 
a gill of half-set aspic and two large tablespoon- 
fuls of double cream. Season and use. 



TAETABE SAUCE. 

Prepare a stiff mayonnaise (page 221) flavoured 
with tarragon vinegar and English mustard. Add 
a sufficiency of finely chopped gherkins, capers 
and parsley. If the sauce appears too thick add a 
few drops of lemon juice. 

BEMOULADE SAUCE. 

Blanch a few leaves of tarragon, parsley, 
burnet, and chives ; drain the herbs, and chop 
them very finely. Put in a basin the yolk of an 
egg, with salt and pepper to taste ; stir well -with 
a wooden spoon. Work in gradually half a pint 
of salad oil, and at intervals a few drops of 
tarragon vinegar. About two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar are required to half a pint of oil. When 
the sauce is finished, add a teaspoonful of made 
mustard, a pinch of castor sugar, and the chopped 
herbs. 

VINAIGBETTE. 

{See page 223.) 



INDEX. 



ADELAIDE Sand- 

■^^ wiches 55 

Alexandra Sandwiches . 64 
American Omelet . . . 161 

, — Salad 219 

Anchoyy Butter .... 249 

— Biscuits 84 

— Canapees 11 

— Eclairs 12 

— Fingers with Cheese . 82 

— Omelet 160 

— Pasties 84 

— Salads 10 

— Sandwiches, Nelson 

style 35 

— Sauce 251 

— Toast 83 

Anchovies 10 

— and Crayfish Tails in 

Shells 12 

— Norwegian style ... 12 
Angels on Horseback . . 91 
Appetisers, Maximilian 

style 23 

— Spanish style .... 24 
Apple and Cucumber Salad 199 

— Salad, P^rigord style . 227 
Artichoke Bottoms, Borde- 

laise 136 

— Bottoms with Brussels- 

sprouts 137 

— Bottoms with Eggs . . 137 

— Chips 138 

— Fritters 138 

— Omelet 159 

— Soufflfe 138 

Artichokes with Foie-gras . 138 
Asparagus Sandwiches . . 70 

j..^ S. D. 

// 



257 



PAGE 

Asparagus Points with Fine 

Herbs 142 

Aspic Jelly 2-53 

"DAGON Omelet. . . .159 
"•^Baked Eggs, Gratin style 178 

— Macaroni with Cheese . 193 

— Tomatoes k I'Anglaise . 118 
BaUotins of Lobster, Be- 

form style .... 22 
Banana Salad . r . . 229 
Batons k la Parma ... 90 
Bechamel Sauce .... 250 
Beet Canapees .... 49 

— or Tongue Sandwiches . 53 
Beetroot Salad . . . .203 

— and Egg Salad . . .206 

— Fritters 145 

Belgian Salad .... 218 
Bengal Potato Curry . . 236 
Betterave k I'Orientale . . 41 
Bird's Nest Salad . . .216 
Bologna Salad .... 211 
Bonnes-Boucbes a la Car- 
dinal 80 

Brain Cutlets 113 

Braised Cucumber with 
Beef Marrow ... 132 

— Celery, Espagnole . . 143 
Breakfast or Lunch Salad 203 

Brochettes .115 

Broiled Oysters .... 85 

— Oysters, New York style .87 
Brown Bread Cheese Sand- 

, wiches ..... JS2 
Brussels-sprouts Salad . . 205 
Buttei;ed Eggs, Indian style 239 

— Pickets ...... 241 



258 



INDEX. 



pABBAGE au Gratin . . 132 
V-' — Lettnce,American style 133 
Cali's Brain SaJad . . .217 
Canapees of Lobster, 
Queen's style ... 23 

— oJ Crab, Curried . . , 77 

— of Smoked Salmon . . 34 

— Turbigo Fashion . . 29 

Cannelons 99 

Caper Omelet 157 

Cardoons, Spanish style . 146 

— Maitre d'H6tel style . 146 
Cargme Biscuits .... 49 
Carrots i la Maitre d'Hdtel 141 
Cauliflower au Gratin . . 135 
Cauliflowers with Cheese . 135 
Caviare 15 

— ik la Provenijale ... 97 

— Bouch^es 96 

— Canapees 17 

— CroAtes 19 

— Darioles 18 

— Friaridises 19 

— Omelet 155 

— Pancakes 96 

— BoUs 18 

— Sandwiches , ... 56 

— Slices 17 

— Toasts 16 

Celeriac k la Cr^me ... 42 
Celery k la Crdme ... 41 

— Salad 200 

Chasseur Sandwiches . . 71 

Cherry Salad 228 

Cheese Meringues . . . 182 

— Aigrettes,or Cheese Balls 183 

— and Ham Toast . . . 192 

— Biscuits 245 

— Cakes 184 

— Cones 189 

— Cream Sandwiches . . 57 

— Custard 189 

— Fritters 185 

— Hominy Souffles . . ,186 

— Omelet 162 

— Sandwiches . . , , 57 

— Scallops 184 

— Souffles ...,., 182 

— Straws , . . . , . 183 



Cheese Turnovers . 
Cheshire Meat Sandwiches 
Chicken Sandwiches 

— and Ham Tit-bits 

— Croquets . . . 

— Croustades . . . 

— Cutlets k la Baroda 

— Liver on Toast 
Chrysanthemum Salad 
Club Sandwiches 
Cockle Omelet . . 

— Patties, American style 
Colbert Sauce . . . 
Cold Cheese Creams 

— Meat Salad . . 
Crab Salad . . , 
Crabs, Dressed . , 
Crayfish ..... 



FAOB 

184 

64 

54 

103 

99 

101 

238 

108 

219 

54 

160 

93 

252 

189 

209 

208 

30 

27 

28 

28 

29 



— CroAtes, Tartare style . 

— Crofttes, Bavigotte style 

CrSpinettes 100 

Croustades of Kidney, Be- 

form style .... 106 

Cro&tes k I'Espagnole . . 24 

— 4 la Hongroise ... 31 

— & la Louisville ... 45 

— d, la M^tropole ... 46 

— of Chicken, Devilled . 112 
Cucumbers k la Maitre 

d'Hdtel 130 

Cucumber Croustade, Cor- 
don Bouge .... 131 

— and Tomato Salad . . 207 

— Salad 207 

Curried Apples .... 231 

— Anchovy Crofltons . . 84 

— Artichoke Bottoms . , 235 

— Cheese Sandwiches . . 242 

— Eggs k la Madras. . . 240 

— Potatoes 124 

— Potatoes and Apples. . 231 

— Praftns 77 

— Eice . ._. 240 

— Venison k la Baroda . 237 
Curry Omelet 163 



D 



lEMI-GLACE Sauce 
Devilled Biscuits . 



252 
245 



INDEX. 



259 



PASS 

Devilled Butter .... 248 

— Caviare 97 

— Chestnuts . . . . .245 

— Chicken Liver . . . 108 

— Crab 76 

— Eggs 176 

— Fowl 109 

— Lax in Crusts .... 75 

— Meats 107 

— Mushrooms in Cases . 127 

— Olives 150 

— Ox-tongue 109 

— Oysters, Stewed ... 87 

— Oysters, Grilled ... 88 

— Oysters on Mushrooms . 88 

— Salmon, Smoked . . 74 

— Sardines . . . . < 81 

— Shrimps in Crusts . . 76 

— Turkey 115 

Dutch Herrings 36 

— Beetroot Salad . . .206 

ECLAIRS of Sardines . 81 
Egg Cutlets .... 166 

— and Ham Tit-bits . . 168 

— and Tongue CroHtons . 176 

— Crofttes a rimp^ratrice. 181 

— Priandises 167 

— PirosMs 239 

— Plant 129 

— Salad ...... 206 

— Sandwiches .... 59 
Eggs £b la Cr^me . . . 173 

— i, la GranvUle .... 165 

— a la Margot .... 44 

— iL la Salamandre . < . 165 

— & la Matelotte. . . . 166 

— & la Chasseur .... 167 

— &]& Maire 172 

— ii, la Eoyale 173 

^— a la Mode de Caen . . 173 

— ila, Soubise . . . .175 

— 4. la Bomaine .... 176 

— i la Suisse 177 

— 4 la Eossini .... 181 

— k I'Orly 168 

^- Buckingham style . . 172 

— Carnot style .... 43 

— Coquette style. . . . 174 



Eggs, German style . 

— Gratin style . . 

— Qruy^re fashion . 

— Pickled .... 

— with Brown Butter 

— with Mushrooms. 
Endive Salad . . . 
English Salad . . . 
Epicurean Sandwiches. 
Espagnole Sauce . . 



sxax 
. 169 
. 171 
, 172 
. 43 
, 167 
. 168 
. 197 
. 198 
. 67 
. 251 



■PEUILLETAGE, or Puff 

-■- Paste 247 

Fillets of Bloaters on Toast 78 
— '■ of Bloaters with Cheese 95 
Fish Curry in Milk . . .235 

— Fritters 72 

— Kedgeree 73 

Flemish Salad 212 

Fleurettes de Saumon . . 34 

— de Foie-gras . . . . 3S 

Fleurons 248 

Foie-gras Sandwiches . . 58 
French Beans with Fine 

Herbs 139 

^Omelet 153 

— Potato Salad .... 210 

— Spring Salad .... 197 
FreshCod'sBoe Sandwiches 60 
Friandises de Caviar . . 19 
Fried Anchovies .... 83 

— Brains k la Tartare . . 113 

— Cardoons 147 

— Celery, Dresden style . 143 

— Egg Sandwiches . . . 174 

— Eggs a la Bonne-femme 177 

— Eggs, Lyonese style . . 180 

— Frogs, French style . . 93 

— Oysters 86 

Frizzled Beef on Toast. . 112 
Frying Batter 246 

GAME Fritters .... 105 
— Boulettes .... 105 

— Salad 218 

— Sandwiches .... 54 
Garfield Bonne-Bouohes . 13 
German Salad .... 201 

— Lobster Salad .... 220 



26o 



INBEX. 



PAGE 

German Potato Salad . . 210 
G-herkin and Egg Sand- 
wiches 66 

Gladstone Sandwiches . . 69 
Globe Artichokes k la Col- 
bert 137 

Goose-liverBonnes-Bonches 35 
— 'Darioles 36 

— Fritters.Strasbourg style 114 
Green Herb Butter . . .250 

— Pea Salad 202 

— Peas with Lettuce . . 140 
■^ Peas k la Franpaise . . 141 
Grilled Sardines in Paper 

Cases 80 

— Kidneys, Indian style . 106 

— Oysters 86 

Grouse Sandwiches ... 63 
Gruy^reOheese Sandwiches 57 

TIADDOCK Creams . . 14 
-'-'- — and Anchovy Sand- 
wiches 55 

— Fritters .78 

Ham Bouch^es, with Cream 48 

— Canapees 48 

— Fritters 110 

— Omelet 159 

— Salad 212 

— Sandwiches . . , . . 53 

— Toast Ill 

Hamburg Sandwiches . . 55 
Haricot Beans, Maltre 

d'H6tel 133 

Hazelnut Salad .... 218 
Herring FUlets k la Dubois 37 

— Fritters, AHemande . . 95 

— Boes on Toast ... 93 
Hoftahs of Chicken . . . 234 
Hop-shoots Omelet . . .157 
Hors-d'CEuvre 4 la Busse . 9 
Hossynu Kubab .... 234 
Hot Cheese Creams . . .190 
How to Boil Bice for 

Curries 245 

TCED Tomatoes withMay- 

onnaise 202 

Indian Craipe Toast. . . 241 



PAOIS 

Indian Bhaurta .... 230 

— Curry Sauce .... 255 

— Kedgeree 230 

— Pepper-pot 243 

— Salad 219 

Italian Salad 214 

— Sauce 254 

TEBUSALEM Artichokes 
" with Onions . . .135 

— Artichokes au Gratin . 137 

— Artichokes, Italian style 136 
Jumbled Eggs 164 

"FABOBED Eels . . .238 
''^Kabobs k I'lndienne . . 236 

Ehichri 243 

Kidney Omelet .... 155 

— Toast k la Madras . . 242 
Kippered Herrings, Scotch 

style 94 

Kromeskis 99 

TAX £l I'Huile aux Con- 

■^ combres S3 

Leek Omelet 157 

Lemon and Apple Salad . 226 - 

Lentil Omelet 159 

Lettuce Salad i . . . . 197 

Lobster k la CarSme . . 21 

— au Gratin 74 

— Ballotins 22 

— Canapees 23 

— Darioles with Tomatoes 21 

— Omelet 160 

— Salad 220 

LucuUus Sandwiches(Spec- 

ialDish) 63 

MACAEONI 192 

■^"-— and Poached Eggs . 193 

— au Gratin 193 

— k ritalienne .... 194 
Mac^doine Salad .... 204 
Madras Hard Eggs . . . 231 

— Prawn Curry .... 233 
MaJtre d'H&tel Butter . . 249 

— d'H6tel Sauce . . . .250 
Marguerite Sandwiches . 67 



INDEX. 



261 



PAQE 

Marinade 249 

Marrow Fatties .... 102 
Mayonnaise Cream . . . 256 

— Dressing 221 

— Sauce 221 

Meat Croquets .... 98 

Melon Salad 227 

Milan Sandwiches ... 71 

Milanese Salad 216 

Minced Beef with Savoury 

Jelly 48 

Mirette Potatoes .... 121 
Mixed Green Salad . . . 199 
Moscow Caviare Toasts . 16 
Mushroom Crofttes . . . 127 

— Bouch^es 128 

— Omelet ...... 158 

— Salad 217 

Mushrooms, Parisian style 128 

— on Toast 127 

Mussel Omelet .... 157 
MuthaZudree . . . .233 
My "Own" Salad Dressing 223 

"IVEW YORK Sandwiches 61 
■^^ Norfolk Eggs ... 164 
Norwegian Sandwiches . . 69 
NouiUes h la Suisse . . . 187 

— Paste 247 

Nut Sandwiches .... 59 

AEKA Salad 205 

^ OUve Omelet . . .161 
Olives as Hors-d'CBuvre . 38 
^ a la Beine 39 

— a I'Alsacienne .... 39 

— Stuffed, Margot style . 38 
Olivette Sandwiches. . . 68 
Omelet, How to Make an . . 151 

— American 161 

— Anchovy ..... 160 

— Artichoke ... . . . 159 

— Bacon ...... 159 

— Caper 157 

— Caviare 155 

— Cheese 162 

— Cockle 160 

— Curry 163 

— French 153 



FAOE 

Omelet — Ham .... 159 

— Hop-shoots .... 157 

— Kidney 155 

— Leek 157 

— LentU 159 

— Lobster 160 

— Mussel 157 

— Mushroom 158 

— Olive 161 

— Onion 1S6 

— Oyster 158 

— Plain 153 

— Prawn 160 

— Potato 163 

— '■ Sardine 156 

— Sausage 158 

— Savoury 134 

— Savoury Souffle . . .163 

— Tomato 162 

— Truffle 155 

— Venison 154 

— with Mixed Vegetables . 161 

Onion Omelet 156 

Orange Salad 228 

Oriental Savoury of Beet- 
root 232 

Oyster Darioles it la Carlton 20 

— Bonnes-Bonches ... 85 

— Fritters, Indian style . 240 

— CroquetsWellington style 90 

— CrSpinettes 91 

— Mayonnaise .... 20 

— Omelet 158 

— Patties 92 

— Eare-bit 89 

— Salad 208 

— Sandwiches .... 66 

— Souffles 89 

— Tit-bits 89 

Oysters 20 

— on Toast 86 

— in their Shells, Dumas 

style 90 

PANADE, or Panada . . 248 
Pancake Batter . . 246 
Parisian Salad Dressing . 224 

Paste Crust 246 

Faupiettes de Harengs . 37 



262 



INDEX. 



PAaE 
Fear and Plum Salad . . 227 
Petites Crofttes de Caviar . 19 
— ^Darioles Agrasienne . . 47 
— ^Marquises au Thon . . 25 
Petits Fanlers a la Jar- 
diniere 40 

Pickled Eggs ..... 43 

— ^Lemons or Limes . . . 229 

Fiquante Sauce .... 295 

Plain Omelet 153 

FloTer'sEggSiFriucess style 44 

Poached Eggs .... 170 

— ^Eggs and Anchovy . . 171 
—Eggs with Ham . . .171 

— Eggs with Spinach . . 171 

Poivrade or Pepper Sauce . 252 

Polish Salad 211 

Potato Croquets .... 120 

^-Boune-Bouches . . . 125 

—Fritters 124 

—Omelet 163 

— Pancakes with Cheese . 123 

— BiSBoles 125 

—Salad 209 

— Savoury, ItaUan style . 126 

—Scallops 121 

— Timbales 123 

Potatoes, Bonne Eemme 

style 120 

— done in Dutch style . . 122 

Prawn Baskets .... 26 

—Omelet 160 

Prawns in Savoury Jelly . 26 

Prince Qeorge Sandwiches 71 

Princess Sandwiches . . 62 

Puff Cheese Fingers. . . 190 
Pumpkin with Parmesan 

Cheese 150 

Pyramid of Eggs . . . .169 



■pABBIT Pie k la Bombay 237 



■ E^moulade Sauce 
Bice au Gratin . 

— Croquets . . 

— Croustades 
Boiled Sandwiches 
Boyal Salad Sauce 
Bussian Salad 



256 
186 
186 
186 
58 
222 
215 



PAOE 

ST. JAMES'S Sandwiches 62 
Salad Sandwiches.. . 70 
Salad Dressing without 

Oil 225 

— Mixture 224 

Salade k la Brisse . . . 204 

— kl^ Carranova. . . . 221 

— & la Chinoise .... 214 

— 4 la E^forme .... 222 

— Bohemienne .... 213 

— Chasseur 218 

— du Gourmet .... 220 

— Mirette 213 

— St. George 204 

Salads 195 

— American 219 

— Apple 227 

— Apple and Cucumber . 199 

— Banana . . ... 229 

— Beetroot 203 

— Beetroot and Egg . . 206 

— Belgian 218 

— Bird's Nest .... 216 

— Bologna 211 

— Breakfast or Lunch . . 203 

— Brussels-sprouts . . . 205 

— Calf's Brain .... 217 

— Celery 200 

— Cherry 228 

— Ghrysanthemam . 219 

— Cold Meat 209 

— Crab 208 

— Cucumber 207 

— Cucumber and Tomato 207 

— Dutch Beetroot . . . 206 

— Egg 206 

— Endive 197 

-English 198 

— Flemish 212 

— French Lettuce . . . 198 

— French Spring . . . 197 

— Game 218 

— German 201 

— German Lobster . . . 220 

— German Potato . . . 210 

— Green Pea 202 

— Ham 212 

— Hazelnut 213 

— Italian 214 



INDEX. 



263 



PAGE 

Salad— Indian . . . .219 
T— Lemon and Apple . . 226 

— Lettuce 197 

^Lobster 220 

— Mac^oine 204 

— Melon 227 

— Milanese 216 

— Mixed Oreen . . . .199 

— Mushioom .... 217 

— Okra 205 

— Orange 228 

— Oyster 208 

— Pear and Plum . . .227 

— Polish 211 

— Potato '209 

— Bussian 215 

— Salsify 205 

— Shrimp 208 

— Sorrel 205 

— Summer 202 

— Supper 200 

— Swedish 212 

— Sweetbread . . . .217 

— Swiss 200 

— Swiss Chicken ... 207 

— Tartare 215 

— Tomato 201 

— Tomato and Pear . . 226 

— Truffle 217 

— Winter 203 

Salmi Sauce 254 

Salmon Cro^tes k la Tar- 
tare 32 

— Fritters 74 

— Sandwiches .... 65 

— Soused 34 

— au Gratin 73 

Salpicon of Chicken with 

Potatoes 100 

Salsify Salad 205 

-Fritters 144 

Salted Peanuts .... 244 

— Almonds 244 

Sandwich Butter .... 52 

Sandwiches 51 

— & la Chesterfield . . . 69 

— a la Wellington ... 59 

— Adelaide 55 

— Alezandia 64 



PAGE 

Sandwiches — Anchovy . . 55 

— Asparagus 70 

— Beef or Tongue ... 53 

— Caviare 56 

— Chasseur 71 

— Cheese 57 

— Cheese Cream. ... 57 

— Cheshire Meat ... 64 

— Chicken 54 

— Club 54 

— Egg 59 

— Epicurean 67 

— Foie-gras 58 

— Fresh Cod's Boe ... 60 

— Game 54 

— Gherkin and Egg . . 66 

— Gladstone 65 

— Grouse 63 

— Gruyfere Cheese ... 57 

— Haddock and Anchovy. 55 

— Ham 53 

— Hamburg 55 

— Luoullus 63 

— Marguerite 67 

— Milan 7>1 

— New York . ... 61 

— Norwegian .... 69 

— Nut 59 

— Olivette 68 

— Oyster 66 

— Prince George ... 71 

— Princess 62 

— EoUed 58 

— St. James's 62 

— Salad 70 

— Salmon 65 

— Sardine and Tomato . 61 

— Shrimp 56 

-Sicily 68 

— Smoked Salmon ... 66 

— Sportsman 65 

— Toasted Cheese . . 56 

— Tomato 53 

— Victoria 60 

Sardine Croustade, with 

Cheese 82 

— Omelet 156 

— Tartlets a la Boyale . . 15 

— and Tomato Sandwiches 61 



264 



INDEX. 



FAOE 

Sardines with Cheese . . 82 

— 4 la Provenpale ... 80 

— Canapees 79 

— in Aspio 14 

— with Poached Eggs . . 79 
Sauces 195 

— Anchovy' 251 

— Bechamel 250 

— Colbert 252 

— Demi-glace 252 

— Espagnole ..... 251 

— Indian Curry .... 255 

— Italian 254 

— Maltre d'HStel . . .250 

— Mayonnaise .... 221 

— Piquante 255 

— Poivrade 252 

— B^moulade 256 

— Eoyal Salad . . . .222 

— Salmi 254 

— Supreme 251 

— Tarragon Mayonnaise . 224 

— Tartare 222 

— Tomato 253 

— Vinaigrette 223 

Sausage Cakes .... 114 

— Omelet 158 

Saut6 of French Beans . 139 
Savoury Anchovy Toast . 85 

— Broad Beans .... 134 

— Cabbage 133 

— Carrots 141 

— Crab with Tomato Sauee 77 

— Eggs, Mattre d'Hdtel . 180 

— Fi;ench Beans, Poulette. 139 

— Game Patties, Cordon 

Bouge style .... 104 

— Haddock on Toast . . 78 

— Ham Patties .... 110 

— Hominy 241 

— Lentils 134 

— Marrow on Toast . . 103 

— Mushrooms 128 

— Omelet 154 

— Oysters 87 

— Peas with Ham . . . 140 

— Potatoes 126 

— Salsify 144 

— Sandwich Butter. . . 52 



PAOH 

Savoury — Semolina . . . 187 

— Souffle Omelet . . .163 

— Souffles, Salisbury style 107 

— Toast, Cold Meat . . Ill 

— Vegetable Marrow . . 130 
Scolloped Lobster ... 75 

— Salsify 145 

Scotch Eggs 178 

— Bare-bit 188 

— Woodcock 191 

Scrambled Buttered Eggs . 179 

— Brains 112 

— Eggs & ritaUenne . . 179 

— Eggs with Asparagus 

Tips 179 

— Eggs with Shredded 

Ham 179 

— Eggs with Herbs . . .180 

— Ham with Eggs . . . Ill 
Sheep's Bread Crofttes a 

I'Indienne . . . .283 
Shrimp Crofttes .... 27 

— Salad 208 

— Sandwiches .... 56 
Sicily Sandwiches ... 68 
Small Game Souffles . . 104 
Smoked Ham Sausage 

Fritters . . ... .113 

— Herrings, Bruxelloise . 94 

— Cod's Eoe Croutons . . 95 

— Cod's Eoe Canapees. . 27 

— Hamburg Beef ... 49 

— Salmon Sandwiches. . 66 

— Fish Fritters .... 72 
Snails as Hors-d'CEuvre . 31 

— with Fine Herb Butter . 32 
Sorrel Salad 205 

— with Poached Eggs . . 147 
Soubise or Onion Purde . 156 
Soused Salmon .... 34 

— Fish 36 

Spanish Appetisers ... 24 
Sparghetti with Tomato 

Sauce 194 

Spinach, French style . . 147 

Sportsman Sandwiches. . 65 

Stewed Beetroots in Sauce 146 

— Celery, Maltre d'Hdtel . 143 

— Okra with Tomatoes . 150 



INDEX. 



265 



PAOJS 

Stewed Potatoes k la 

Maiie 135 

StatiedEggB with Tomatoes ISl 
Stufied Eggs with Spinach I€S 

— Cucumber 131 

— Eggs 4 ritaliemie . . 176 

— Eggs k la Busse ... 42 

— Eggs with Cream . . 175 

— Eggs with Nonilles . . 174 
— Eggs with Parsley . . 177 

— Olives, Margot slyle . . 38 

— Potatoes 120 

— Savoury Potatoes. . . 123 

— Tomatoes, Gourmet 

style 117 

Siiemmer Salad 202 

dipper Salad ...... 200 

St^relue Sauca .... 251 

Sbuprise Tomatoes ... 42 

— Potatoes 122 

Sweetbread Patties, Alle- 

mande 105 

— Fritters 106 

— Salad 217 

Swedish Salad 212 

Swiss Salad 200 

— Chicken SaJad. . . .207 



TAERAGON Mayonnaise 

-•- Sauce 224 

Tartare Sauce . . . 222,256 
Toasted Cheese Sandwiches 56 

— Cheese 192 

— Sardines with Ham . . 80 
Tomato Cutlets .... 46 

— and Fear Salad . . .226 

— Cream 254 

— Fritters 117 

— Omelet 162 

— Salad 201 

— Salad with Olives . . 202 

— Sandwiches .... 53 

— Sauce 253 

— Savoury 119 



Tomatoes k la Lucullus . 42 
— G«atin style .... 117 

— on Toast 116 

■~-r Beform style .... 118 

— with Cheese .... 116 

— with Mushrooms . . . 118 
Tongue Canapees ... 48 

— Toast 109 

Truffle Omelet .... 155 

— Salad ...... 217 

Truffles, CarSme style . - 149 
-»- in Crusts 148 

— in Crust k I'ltalienne . 149 

— Saut6, M^tropole . . .148 

Tunny Fish 25 

^- Eieh Canapees. . . . 2S> 

— Fish Marquises . « . 2S; 



YEGETABLE Curry . 
V — Marrow Fritters . 


. 234 


. 129 


— Marrow with Cheese 


. 130 


Venison Croquets . . 


. 101 


— Omelets .... 


. 154 


— Bissoles .... 


. 102 


Victoria Sandwiches . 


. 60 


Vinaigrette Sauce . . 


. 223 



187 



188 
189 
188 



TT7ELSH Bare-bit. 
V Y — ^Bare-bit, American 

style 

r-Bare-bit, English style 
— Bare-bit with Egg . 
West Indian Mulligatawny 241 
White Cabbage Curry . . 235 
Winter Salad 203 



YOUNG Carrots with 
White Sauce . . .142 



ZIGABAS k la Busse . . 191 
ZudreeBice. . 232 



S. D. 



ADVERTISEMENTS, 



fERFECTIONinFOOD! 



THE GREAT 

WHEAT FOOD 



TEN 

aOUD MEDALS 

AWARDED, 

AND 

PRIX D'HONNEUR, 

1897, 

COOKERY AND 

FOOD EXHIBITION. 



u 



FLO R ADO R" 



Is made. . 
in ... . 
Three Sizes 
of Grains . 



Large Graineil 

For Porridge, Omelettes, Soups, etc. 

Meilium Orained 

For Baked or Boiled Puddings, etc. 

Fine Graineil 

For Blanc Mange, Cakes, Creams, 
Infants' Food, etc. 



RECIPES ON PACKETS. 



Miss Ida CameFon, Principal Earl's Court School of Cookery, writes: 
"'Florador' cannot be too highly reoommendecl lor Puddings, Cakes, Souffles, 
Biscuits, and many other dainties." 

Mrs. Thwaites, Cookery Lecturer, Liverpool, writes: "I honestly think that 
nothing comes up to ' Florador ' thai I have met with." 

The Lancet says : " This preparation is excellent." 

TheEpieture says: "'Florador' fills a place of acknowledged useMness in most 
lamilies ; it is good as a food in its simplest form ol preparation, and it admits of 
so many possible variations in cooking that there are few articles of the kind so 
useful on emergencies to cook or housewife." 

To be had at Grocers and Stores, In ) and i-lb. Packets ; 
and at Chemists In Is. Tins. 

The FLORADOR FOOD CO, 90 WasMngton St, Glasgow. 

London Depot : COWAN & CO., 29-30 College Street, E.C. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



We may live without art, witliout music or boolts, 
But civilised man cannot live v/ithout cooks. 

Owen Meredith. 



THE DINNER BELL 

is an important tocsin. Three or four times 
a day — -three hundred and sixty-five days in 
the year — ^we " eat to live." 

Some palatable dishes and condiments are 
not conducive to good digestion. Some very 
materially aid digestion and thus promote 
health. 

Colman's Mustard belongs to the latter 
class. 

It is eaten because it is liked — because it 
gives a zest to the meal. But its real value 
lies in the fact that it stimulates the 
digestive organs. 

COLMAN'S 
MUSTARD 

used all over the World. 



ADVERTISEMmHTS:.: 



GOLD 




MEDAL 



Awarded at the First Exhibition in competition 

BY THE 

UNIVERSAL COOmY & FOOD ASSOCIATION 

TO THE 

Shredded Ribeat Co. 

For the Excellence and Purity of their 
remarkable product. 



Sh^ddfid ^ admirably suited for many Savoury 
Dtslies, Toast, etc., and is referred to in 



Wheat 



certain' recipes in this boolc, also for 

Sweets, Puddings, and as an alU cooked 

substitute for Porridge. Easiest of all foods to prepare, 

and the most nutritious. It is peculiarly corrective 

and strengthening. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



Cook by Gas! 



Cook by Gas!! 



™"MAIN" 



Gold Medal 



GAS COOKERS. 



Used in the Royal Household. 



ON SALE OR HIRE 

AT GAS COMPANIES' OFFICES EVERYWHERE. 



R. & A. MAIN, Ltd., 

LONDON, GLASGOW, MANCHESTER & BRISTOL. 



