
CTICAL 
ESSONS 



IN 



Nursing 



HoWToCoOKFORTlicSiCK 

AND CONVALESCENl 

By Helena V. Sachs e 



rt" 



iMMMi 



(M^ y\M ' [A(i%^ 








^ 



t 



3^ 



.nr.iuLio 



^^31 



^. APR 17 
MAY 31 



THIS BOOK 

IS 
DEDICATED 

TO 
MY MOTHER 



HOW TO COOK FOR THE SICK 
AlTD 
C0j>IVALESCE1IT. 



By 
Helena V. Sachse. 



Philaoelphia, 
1901. 



PREFACE. 



The careful preparation of food is now recognized 
to be of vital importance tc an invalid and a valuable 
assistance, in many cases, to the physician in hasten- 
ing the recovery of a patient. 

If, in addition, the foods be classified with reference 
to their composition, it enables the physician to select 
only those best adapted for any special requirement. 

The author has been frequently asked to bring these 
recipes together in book form, which has now been 
done, with the earnest hope that they may prove of 
assistance to the trained nurse or caretaker of the sick, 
which will be commensurate with the labor involved 
in the preparation of this little volume. 

They have been arranged in such a way that the 
physician, in outlining a course of diet, may find them 
most useful and a source of ready reference, and that 
whatever food is ordered can be properly cooked. 

Not only has the author carefully tried all the reci- 
pes here given, but they have been successfully used 
in six hospitals. 

The following principles are strictly adhered to, — 
viz. : 

1. Starchy foods require long cooking. 

2. Albuminous foods, as eggs, oysters, etc., must 
be cooked at a low temperature, or they are rendered 
tough. 

V 



vi PREFACE. 

3. Fats in the form of butter and cream are best 
added after the food has been removed from the fire. 

4. Where boiled milk is objected to, the milk is only 
heated to the pasteurizing point (165° F.). 

5. When a restricted diet is ordered and starchy 
food is not allowed, the soups and sauces are thickened 
with yolks of eggs or Irish moss. 

6. No fried foods should ever be given an invalid. 

7. Give as much variety as possible. 

8. Serve everything tasty, and use as little flavoring 
as possible, so that the flavor of the main food prin- 
ciple be not lost. 

Garnish the dishes, but be sure they taste as good 
as they look. 

Measure all ingredients carefully before mixing. 
Taste before serving. Serve hot foods hot (not luke- 
warm). 

I wish to acknowledge my indebtedness to physi- 
cians, dietitians, and nurses from whom I have re- 
ceived considerable help, and especially from Dr. J. P. 
Crozer Griflith, Clinical Professor of Diseases of Chil- 
dren in the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 
on the chapters treating of Infants' Foods; and to 
Dr. Henry Leffmann, Professor of Chemistry in the 
Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania, for his 
help on the chapter relating to Milk ; and to the many 
friends who have aided me in various ways towards 
bringing this work to completion. 

H. V. Sachse. 

Philadelphia, April 3, 1901. 



CONTENTS. 

¥ 

PAGES 

Preface y_^j 

Preliminary ix-xvi 

List of recipes containing no starch or sugar. 
List of desserts containing no starch, but a 
small amount of sugar. Measurements ex- 
plained. How to set a tray. Necessary cook- 
ing utensils. 

Meat Preparations 7_iq 

Beef-juice, beef-tea, broths, and jellies. 

Milk 20-29 

Different ways of serving milk, etc. Modifi- 
cation of milk. 

Peptonized Foods 29-35 

D^i^^s 35-47 

Toasts 47_53 

Soups 53_8o 

Clear soups, cream soups, stocks. Thickening 
of cream soups,— viz., flour and butter, corn- 
starch or arrowroot, yolks of eggs, Irish moss. 

Gruels and Mushes 80-S9 

With and without eggs, breakfast foods, cereal 
jellies. 

Eggs 9o_^8 

Theory of cooking, etc. 

Sweetbreads 98-103 

How to prepare, etc. 

Oysters 103-112 

Chickens 112-122 

To draw, choose, etc. 

vii 



viii CONTENTS. 

PAGES 

Birds = 122-123 

Beef and Mutton 123-127 

Steaks, chops, roasts, etc. 

Fish 128-133 

To draw and prepare, etc. 

Mushrooms 133-136 

To select and prepare. 

Vegetables 136-148 

Green and starchy vegetables. General rule 
for cooking. White sauce for vegetables. 

Salads 148-153 

Vegetable and meat. Serving of French salad 
dressing. Mayonnaise dressing. 

Sandwiches i54-i57 

Open and double. Preparation of the butter, 
etc. 

Sauces 157-162 

White or cream sauce. Different methods of 
thickening, — viz., flour and butter, cornstarch 
or arrowroot, yolks of eggs, Irish moss. 

Breads 162-165 

Gluten Foods 166-169 

Cooked Fruits 169-173 

Desserts 174-207 

Junkets, custards, Irish moss, jellies, rice, 
cornstarch, arrowroot, rice flour, farina, sago, 
bread, souffle, fruits, gelatin, cakes, whipped 
cream. 

Pudding Sauces 207-211 

Frozen Foods . . . • 211-216 

Method of freezing. Whipped cream, ice- 
cream, frozen fruits, frozen beef-tea, frozen 
beef -juice albumenized. 

Index 225-239 



PRELIMINARY. 



Recipes containing no Starch or Sugar. 

Soups. 

Beef-tea. 

Beef-broth (without grains) 

Beef-puree. 

Chicken-broth (plain). 

Mutton-broth (plain). 

Oyster-broth. 

Clam-broth or bouillon'. 



Chicken-broth (with egg 

croutons). 
Tomato bouillon. 
Consomme, cold, with egg, 

royal. 
Bouillon. 



Cream Soups. 



Oyster soup or bisque of 
oysters (thickened with 
yolks of eggs). 

Clam soup (egg thicken- 
ing)- 

Chicken puree II. 

Creamof celery III. and IV. 

Cream of tomato or. mock 
bisque II. (Irish moss 
thickening). 



Spinach soup III. 

Cream of lettuce. 

Watercress soup (thick- 
ened with yolks of eggs). 

Cream of asparagus III. 

Cream of chicken III. 

Milk or onion soup, (thick- 
ened with yolks of eggs). 

Sweetbread puree II. 

Mushroom soup II. 



Egg Dishes. 

Steamed or frothed eggs I. Poached eggs 
and II. toast). 



(without 



PRELIMINARY. 



Egg Dishes 

Soft cooked eggs I. and 

II. 
Scrambled eggs I. and II. 

(without toast). 



(^Continue d^ . 

Omelet, plain, Spanish, 
with parsley, tomato, 
chicken, tongue, and 
oysters. 



Fish. 



Baked. 

Broiled. 

Planked. 

Boiled. 

Halibut or cod creamed 



A la bechamel. 

A la crhne (using sauce 

III. and omitting 

crumbs). 
Salmon a la creme. 



(using cream sauce III. ). Moulded halibut. 



Oysters. 



Raw. 

Stewed I. (omitting the 

crackers). 
Panned (omittingthe toast). 
Broiled. 



Creamed (using sauce III), 

Fricasse. 

A la Newburg. 

Boiled. 

Omelet. 



Broiled. 

Baked. 

Creamed (using 

sauce III.). 
A la bechainel. 



Sweetbreads. 

With chicken. 
Puree II. 
cream Salad, 
Raw. 

Chicken. 



Spring chicken, broiled or 

smothered. 
Roast. 



Boiled. 

Creamed (sauce III.). 

A la bechamel. 



PRELIMINARY. xi 

Chicken {Conti7uced). 

Terrapin. Minced with poached Qgg 

Au supreme. (using cream sauce III.). 

And mushrooms. In white jelly. 

In clear jelly. 

Birds. 
Broiled, etc. 

Beef. 

Scraped. Pur6e. 

Steak broiled. Paste. 

Roast. Raw beef-balls. 
Hamburg steaks. 

Mutton and Lamb. 

Chops broiled. Boiled mutton. 

French chops broiled. Roast. 





Bacon. 




Boiled. 




Vegetables. 


Asparagus. 


Onions boiled and baked. 


Celery (?). 


Cucumbers. 


Kale. 


Tomatoes, raw, panned. 


Spinach. 


stewed, omelet. 


Cabbage. 


Sweet peppers. 


Brussels sprouts. 





Cream sauce for vegetables III. (thickened with yolks 
of eggs). 



Xll 



PRELIMINARY. 





Mushrooms. 


In a cream sauce (using Baked. 


sauce III.). 


Soup II. 


Broiled. 






Salads. 


French and 


mayonnaise Tomato. 


dressing. 


Chopped tomato. 


Lettuce. 


Egg- 


Watercress. 


Cabbage. 


Celery (?). 


Chicken. 


Asparagus. 


Sweetbread. 




Sandwiches. 



Place any desired cold meat between two tender let- 
tuce leaves (in place of the buttered bread), season, and 
serve with a little salad dressing. 



Sauces. 
White or Cream III. and Parsley. 



IV. 


^gg- 


Onion. 


Mushroom. 


Tomato IV. 




Gluten 


Foods. ^ 


Mush I. and II. 


Wafers. 


Gruel. 


Gluten bread. 


Popovers I. and II. 


Mush bread. 


Gems. 


Biscuits. 


Toast. 


Gluten dessert. 


Zwieback. 





^ Gluten flour contains a small percentage of starch. 



PRELIMINARY. xiii 

Cooked Fruits. 

Omit the sugar, ^ then follow recipes for apple sauce, 
stewed apples, baked apples, steamed apples, raw 
peaches, stewed peaches, peach sauce, prunes, dates, 
and grape-juice. 

Desserts. 
Plain junket I. and II. Plain ice-cream. 

Plain Irish moss blanc Ripe fruits (?). 

mange. 

Desserts containing no Starch, but a Small Amount 
of Sugar.'^ 

Desserts. 

Custard junket I. and II. Plain souffle I. 

Egg-nog junket. Peach souffle. 

Junket with cream. Prune souffle. 

Irish moss blanc mange I. Banana souffle, 

and II. Apple charlotte. 

Lemon-jelly. Apple float. 

Egg custard. Cut peaches. 

French custard. Peach cream. 

Cup custard. Baked apples I. 

Floating island. Baked bananas I. and II. 
Egg cream or lemon butter. 

^ Saccharin may be substituted for sugar. Use very much 
smaller amounts, according to directions accompanying the 
saccharin. 

^ Saccharin may be substituted for the sugar. It is many 
times sweeter (about three hundred times) and can only be 
used in very small quantities as directed by the manufacturers. 
It may be purchased at a drug-store in several forms, — pow- 
der, tablet etc. 



XIV PRELIMINARY. 

Gelatin Desserts. 

Wine-jelly. Fruit charlotte. 

Lemon-jelly. Spanish cream. 

Snow pudding. Calf s-foot jelly. 
Gelatin cream. 

Ripe Fruits and Cooked Fruits. 

Frozen Foods. 

Whipped cream. Lemon ice. 

Plain ice-cream. Orange ice. 

Flavored ice-cream. Frozen fruits. 
Frozen custard. 

Pudding Sauces. 
Soft custard. Wine. 

Cream. Lemon sauce I, and II. 

Peach. 

Measurements. 

One cup equals one-half pint. 

One tablespoonful— z>., rounded— equals two level 
tablespoonfuls. 

One teaspoonful— z>., rounded— equals two level tea- 
spoonfuls. 

Two teaspoonfuls— z>., rounded— equal one table- 
spoonful. 

One-eighth box of gelatin equals one level teaspoonful. 
One pound of beef equals one pint of finely chopped 
beef. 

One tablespoonful— /.d-., rounded— of butter equals 
one ounce. 

One cup of sugar equals one-half pound. 
One cup of flour equals one-fourth pound. 
One-half cup equals one gill. 



PRELLMIXARY. xv 

The Setting of a Tray and Serving. 

This should be finished before the meal is ready to be 
served, and plates or serving dishes warmed. It is not 
only necessary for the tray to be daintily set, but the 
dishes should be so arranged that the patient can eat 
with as much comfort as possible. 

Be sure and serve the hot foods hot (not lukewarm), 
and, if it is necessary to carry them a distance, cover 
them with a heated bowl or deep saucer ; or, in some 
instances (especially in cold weather), a small alcohol 
lamp and saucepan will prove of assistance if kept in an 
adjoining room or hall for reheating. 



Necessary Cooking Utensils. 

Two measuring cups (each one-half pint), using one 
for liquids and one for dr}^ ingredients. 

Two tablespoons. 

Two teaspoons. 

One spatula or limber knife. 

One small knife (French boning knife) with blade 
about three inches long. 

A thermometer, such as is used for milk. 

A wire egg-beater or whip. 

Wooden spoons or paddles for mixing and stirring. 

A sieve. 

Squares of gauze or cheesecloth to line the sieve when 
necessary. 

A round omelet-pan. 

A saucepan (small size). 

Double boiler. 



xvi PRELIMINARY. 

A broiler. 

Two mixing bowls. 

A meat-board. 

Meat-press. 

Alcohol lamp or small stove. 



HOW TO COOK FOR THE SICK 
AND CONVALESCENT. 

MEAT PREPARATIONS. 

Beef- Juice I. 

Select a piece of raw beef (preferably) from off 
the round. Have it cut about one or one and a half 
inches in thickness. Remove all the surrounding fat. 
Broil ^ quickly until it is just heated through. Cut 
into small pieces.- Squeeze out the juice with a meat- 
press or lemon-squeezer ^ (having previously plunged 
into boiling water all the parts of the press that will 
touch the meat), pouring the juice into a heated cup 
or bowl. The cup or bowl may be kept warm in a 
larger vessel containing warm water. Remove any 
globules of fat. Season lightly with salt.* 

Serve plain, diluted with an equal quantity of warm 

^ If you are unable to have a fire suitable for broiling, the 
meat may be pan broiled. 

"When cutting the meat it should be placed on a warm 
board, wooden bowl, or plate. If kept warm it is easier to 
express the juice. 

^ The lemon-squeezer referred to is one with two long 
handles. 

* If desired, celery salt may also be used in the seasoning, 
by way of variety. 

7 



8 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

(not boiling) water, or pour the beef -juice over toast, 
crumbs of toast, or pulled bread. 

To Remove the Fat. — Strain the juice through two 
thicknesses of cheese-cloth that have been wrung out 
in cold water. 

Or, use crusts of bread, tissue or plain paper, just 
touching each globule of fat, and it will readily be 
absorbed. 

Or, if allowed to cool, thev may be easily skimmed 
off. 

To Reheat Beef-Juice. — Pour the desired quantity 
into a cup and place it in a saucepan containing a 
little warm water. Bring the water to a temperature 
of about 1 60° F. Do not let it exceed that tempera- 
ture, or brown flakes will begin to appear, showing 
that the albumen is coagulating. 

Beef- Juice II. 

When a meat-press or lemon-squeezer is not ob- 
tainable, broil the beef and cut it into small pieces 
as directed in preceding recipe. Then place it in the 
centre of a piece of gauze or cheese-cloth (that has 
been wrung out in warm water), fold two sides over 
the beef and twist both ends in opposite directions. 
Serve as above. 

Beef -Juice III. (Cold Process). 

One pound of beef. 

One gill of cold water. 

One-eighth level teaspoonful of salt. 

Select beef from the tender side of the round, free 
it from fat, chop very fine or run it twice through 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 9 

a meat-grinder. Place it with the water and salt in 
a jar ^ with a tight-fitting lid ; shake well. Stand 
on the ice about six hours or overnight (when pos- 
sible shake occasionally). Strain through muslin, 
twisting the ends in opposite directions. Season 
lightly, and serve cold or slightly warmed. 

Frozen Beef -Juice. 

See page 216. 

Mutton-Juice. 

Select mutton from the loin or leg, remove all sur- 
rounding fat. Then follow directions under Beef- 
Juice. 

Frozen Mutton-Juice. 

Freeze the same as beef- juice, page 216. 

Beef-Tea I. 

One pound ^ of lean beef. 
One pint of cold water. 
White of an egg. 
One-eighth teaspoonful of salt. 

Take a piece of beef from the round and free it 
from fat and gristle. Run twice through a meat- 
chopper (or chop very fine). Cover with cold water; 
stir well with a wooden spoon, and stand in a cool 
place for at least two hours. (Best put meat and 
water in a covered jar while soaking.) 

° To be sure the jar is perfectly clean it should be steril- 
ized and then cooled. (See foot-note, page 21.) 

' One pound of beef will measure about one pint when 
ground or chopped fine. 



^ 



lo HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Now place it over the fire and stir constantly until 
it reaches i6o° F. Strain through a coarse strainer. 
Slightly beat the white of tgg with a tablespoonful of 
water and add it to the tea, return it to the fire for 
a few minutes until the egg is coagulated. Strain 
again through two thicknesses of cheese-cloth (that 
have been wrung out in ice- water), add the salt, cool, 
and put at once into a cold place. Reheat over hot 
water, but do not let it exceed a temperature of i6o° 
F. In color it should resemble port-wine. 

To change the flavor, soak with the beef either a 
sprig of parsley, celery, one-eighth teaspoonful of 
celery-seed, or a blade of mace. 

If more nutriment is desired, add the white of one 
or two eggs when the tea is cool, shake in a jar 
until thoroughly blended, strain, and reheat to a 
temperature not exceeding 130° F., as the white of 
the egg must not coagulate. 

Or, dried albumen may be added if a greater amount 
of nutriment is required and in a more concentrated 
form. (See Dried Albumen, page 43.) 

Beef -Tea II. (Old-fashioned Method). 

One pound of lean beef from round. 
One quart of cold water. 
One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 

Cut the meat into small pieces; place in a double 
boiler and cover with cold water. Fill the lower half 
of the boiler with cold water. Place all over a slow 
fire and cook for two hours or more ; stir frequently."^ 

' If there is any fat floating on the top, see directions 
under Beef-Juice for removing it. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. ii 

Strain, season with salt, and serve in a heated bowl 
with well-made toast, pulled bread, or sippets. 

If the meat is run through a meat-chopper before 
adding the cold water, much less time will be re- 
quired for the cooking. It may also be whisked with 
an egg-beater to help wash out the juice, etc. 

(See preceding recipe for changing the flavor of the 
" Tea" and adding more nutriment.) 

Beef-Tea and Yolk of Egg. 

Beat the yolk of an egg until light, put it in the 
serving bowl, and gradually add a cup of hot beef- 
tea, beating all the while. Serve at once. 

Beef-Tea and Sago. 

One-half pint of beef-tea. 

One ounce of sago (pearl). 

One-half pint of water. 

Yolks of two eggs. 

One-eighth level teaspoonful of salt. 

Wash the sago, then soak it in the water for half 
an hour. Cook it in a double boiler one hour, or 
until clear. Add the salt, yolks of eggs lightly beaten, 
and the beef-tea. Serve hot. 

Frozen Beef-Tea. 

See page 215. 

Scraped Beef. 

Select beef from the tender side of the round and 
have it cut into thin slices. Place on a board and 
scrape it with a sharp knife until the meat is sepa- 
rated from the tough, stringy fibre. Then rub it 
through a fine sieve. 



12 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Beef Puree. 

Prepare the desired quantity of beef as directed 
under Scraped Beef. Measure the beef and add 
double the quantity of cold water, and beat with a 
silver fork until quite smooth. Cook slowly in a 
double boiler (or over hot water), stirring constantly 
with a wooden spoon until it changes color and is 
thoroughly heated. Remove from the fire, season 
lightly with salt, and serve in a heated cup. If de- 
sired, serve with it any form of toast. 

In prolonged feeding, the flavor may be varied by 
adding celery salt, a few drops of onion- juice, or 
cooking a sprig of parsley or a few tops of celery 
with the meat and removing them before serving. 

Beef Paste. 

Follow preceding recipe, using less water (about 
one-half the quantity). 

Ravi^-Beef Paste. 

Scrape the desired quantity of beef; gradually add 
a little water, beating all the while (with a silver 
fork) until it is the consistency of thick cream. Rub 
through a sieve if desired finer, and season lightly 
with salt. 

Raw-Beef Balls. 

Scrape meat as directed under Scraped Beef. Sea- 
son lightly with salt, and form lightly into tiny balls. 
Serve on a lettuce-leaf, or, if allowable, roll each ball 
in a small tender leaf that has been covered with a 
French salad dressing. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 13 

Raw-Beef Sandwiches. 

Prepare beef as directed under Scraped Beef. Sea- 
son lightly with salt, and place a layer between two 
thinly cut slices of bread (that have been buttered or 
not as desired). 

Or, if toast is desired, spread freshly made sippets 
with the beef. (For variations of sandwiches, see 
page 154.) 

Beef-Broth. 

One pound of lean beef. 

A piece of bone from the shin of beef. 

One-half teaspoonful of salt. 

One quart of cold water. 

Cut the meat into small pieces, crack the bone, and 
put all in a kettle and cover with the cold water. 
Bring slowly to a boil, then simmer two hours or more 
until reduced to one pint of liquid. Strain, season 
with salt,^ and cool quickly. When cold, remove the 
fat from the top. Reheat and serve with croutons 
or pulled bread. 

The broth may be flavored with a sprig of parsley, 
a few tops of celery, or one-eighth teaspoonful of 
celery-seed, to be added one-half hour before re- 
moving the broth from the fire. 

® If the broth is desired immediately, the fat may be re- 
moved by straining through two thicknesses of gauze or 
cheese-cloth that have been wrung out in ice-water, or use 
crusts of bread, tissue or unsized paper, just touching the 
globules of fat, when they will be absorbed. However, it 
is better (when possible) to make the broth ahead of time, 
allowing it to cool, and then removing the fat before re- 
heating. 



14 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

If more nutriment is cfesired, to each quart of water 
add one-tablespoonful of rice, barley, wheat, tapioca, 
sago, or a sHce of toast when the broth is first put 
on the fire to cook. They will then be thoroughly 
dissolved in the broth and add to its flavor and con- 
sistency. 

This broth may be made in a shorter time if the 
beef is run through a meat-chopper, as only an hour 
will then be required for simmering. 

Chicken-Broth I. 

Select an old chicken, singe, wash, and draw it. 
Cut off the dark meat in thin slashes, crack the bones, 
and cover with three quarts of cold water. Bring 
slowly to a boil, then simmer several hours, or until 
the liquid is reduced one-half. Add a teaspoonful of 
salt. Strain and cool quickly. When cold, remove 
the fat from the top. Reheat and serve in a hot cup 
with a toasted cracker or sippets. 

If desired more tasty, add celery, celery-seed, a 
sprig of parsley, or a slice of onion, a half-hour before 
removing it from the fire. 

If more nutriment is required, add a tablespoonful 
of rice, sago, or tapioca, or a slice of bread, to the 
chicken and water when placing it on the fire. 

Chicken-Broth II. 

The water in which a chicken has been boiled is 
sometimes substituted for chicken broth. The flavor- 
ings or grains may be added as directed in preceding 
recipe. (See Boiled Chicken, page 115, also Chicken 
Stock, page 61.) 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 15 

Mutton-Broth. 

Select a neck of mutton ; remove skin ; wipe care- 
fully with a damp cloth. Cut into small pieces. Put 
in a soup-kettle and cover with cold water. Bring 
slowly to boiling and skim. Now simmer about three 
hours. Strain, season with salt, and cool quickly. 
When cold remove all the fat. Reheat and serve. 

Rice or barley may be added when the broth is first 
put on the fire, allowing one tablespoonful of either 
to each quart of water. 

A bay-leaf, one-eighth teaspoonful of celery-seed, 
or chopped celery-tops may be added one-half hour 
before removing from the fire. 

Oyster-Broth I. 

Eight fresh oysters. 
One cup of cold water. 
A few grains of salt. 

Drain and quickly wash the oysters with cold water. 
Chop or cut them fine with a silver knife. Put them 
into a saucepan with the cup of cold water and bring 
slowly to the boiling-point, stirring frequently; then 
simmer gently about five minutes, strain, add salt, and 
serve in a heated bowl with dry toast, pulled bread, 
or toasted crackers. Add a dash of pepper, and a 
small piece of butter may be added if desired. 

Oyster-Broth II. (with Milk). 

Substitute the cup of milk for the water and follow 
preceding recipe. 

The yolk of an egg may be beaten and added a few 
minutes before removing it from the fire. 



1 6 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Clam-Broth or Bouillon I. 

Six dams in their shells. 
One cup of cold water. 

Thoroughly scrub the shells. Place them in a small 
saucepan and pour over the cup of water. Bring 
slowly to boiling-point, or until the shells open. 
Strain immediately through two thicknesses of 
cheese-cloth. Dilute to taste with warm water. 
Serve hot or cold. 

Clam-Broth or Bouillon II. 

Six clams. 

One cup of cold water. 

Drain the clams (saving the juice) and chop them 
very fine. Place them in a small saucepan with their 
own juice and the cold water. Bring slowly to a 
boil, stirring frequently, then simmer about five 
minutes. Skim carefully. Strain through two 
thicknesses of cheese-cloth. Dilute to taste with 
warm water. Serve hot or cold. 

Meat-Jellies. 

These may be made in three different ways, — 
namely, with gelatin, Irish moss, and granulated 
tapioca. 

When a broth is ordered cold or in a solid form, 
gelatin is used, or when more nutriment is desired, 
Irish moss (see page 17) or granulated tapioca is 
used. 

The broths used in making a jelly must be well 
made and flavored or the jelly will taste flat. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 17 

Beef-Jelly (with Gelatin). 

Three-fourths of a cup of beef-broth. 
One level teaspoonful of granulated gelatin (one- 
eighth box). 

Choose well-flavored beef-broth. Cover the gelatin 
with a tablespoonful of the broth. Heat the rest of 
it, then add it to the gelatin. Stir until the gelatin 
is dissolved. Strain through gauze or a very fine 
strainer. Pour into a mould or serving dish and 
stand near the ice until it becomes a jelly. This will 
require at least an hour. Serve plain or on a lettuce- 
leaf. 

When adding the gelatin a few drops of lemon- 
juice may be added if desired. 

Chicken-Jelly (with Gelatin). 

Three-fourths of a cup of chicken-broth. 
One level teaspoonful of granulated gelatin. 

Follow directions in preceding recipe. 

Beef -Jelly (with Irish Moss). 

One-eighth cup of Irish moss. 

One cup of beef-broth (well-flavored). 

Soak the moss in lukewarm water for ten minutes, 
then wash each piece thoroughly in cold water, drain, 
and cover it with the broth (which has been clarified 
or poured through a fine strainer). Let it soak 
twenty minutes or more. Then slowly heat, stirring 
all the while, and simmer ten minutes. 

2 



i8 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Strain through a fine sieve, pressing through as 
much of the moss as possible. Stand in a cool place 
to harden. Serve on a lettuce-leaf or plate. 

If desired, a few drops of lemon- juice may be added 
before it is cooled. 

Chicken-Jelly (with Irish Moss). 

One-eighth cup of Irish moss. 
One cup of chicken-broth. 

Follow directions in preceding recipe. 

Chicken-Jelly (with Tapioca). 

One-fourth of a cup of granulated tapioca. 
One cup of chicken stock. 
Salt to taste. 

Put the tapioca in a small saucepan, add the stock 
slowly, stirring all the while. Cook until very clear 
(about five minutes). Season, and pour into moulds 
or a serving dish to harden. Stand near the ice. 
Serve plain or on a lettuce-leaf. If desired, a few 
drops of lemon- juice may be added just before re- 
moving it from the fire. 

Beef -Jelly (with Tapioca). 

One cup of beef-broth. 

One- fourth of a cup of granulated tapioca. 

Salt to taste. 

Clarify or pour the broth through a very fine 
strainer, then follow directions in preceding recipe. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 19 

Albumenized Jelly. 

Make a cup of beef- or chicken- jelly with Irish 
moss or tapioca as directed, and as you remove it 
from the fire stir it into the well-beaten white of 
one egg. Stand away to jelly, and serve as directed 
in preceding recipes. 

Chicken-Jelly (Plain). 

Select a full-grown chicken, singe, wash, and draw 
it. Remove the breast meat and put it aside for other 
dishes. Disjoint the chicken, cut off the meat in small 
pieces from the bones. Crack the bones, and place 
all in a soup-kettle. Cover with three quarts of cold 
water. Simmer gently about three hours, or until the 
liquid is reduced to one and a half quarts. Add one 
teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of celery- 
seed or a cup of chopped celery-tops, a sprig of pars- 
ley, and a small slice of onion if desired. Then 
simmer a half-hour longer. Remove from the fire, 
strain, and cool quickly. When perfectly cold re- 
move the fat from the top and the sediment from the 
bottom. 

To Clarify. — Heat the jelly and add the slightly 
beaten white of one tgg. Bring all to a boil, and 
continue boiling a few minutes, then strain through 
two thicknesses of gauze or cheese-cloth. Turn into 
small moulds or a serving dish and stand in a cold 
place to form a jelly. Serve on a lettuce-leaf or dainty 
plate. 



20 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 



MILK.« 

Milk is a food, not a beverage, and therefore should 
be taken slowly. In many cases it- is also advisable 
that it be taken slightly warmed, as the stomach will 
then not be subjected to shock. 

Vary the monotony in prolonged feedings of milk 
(when allowed by the physician) by changing the 
flavor and taste, serving a plain junket or rennet, 
milk- jelly, kumiss, etc. 

Milk is easily contaminated, and may be the means 
of transmitting many diseases, unless the utmost clean- 
liness is observed in its handling from the time it is 
taken from the cow until it is used by the individual. 

It is also extremely necessary that it be kept in 
scrupulously clean vessels, and should always be kept 
closely covered {i.e., air-tight), especially that which 
has been pasteurized or sterilized, as it is then just 
as readily decomposed as before. Those methods 
only kill the microbes already in the milk and have 
no effect on any that might enter if the milk be left 
uncovered or poured into an unclean vessel. 

Unless sure of its purity milk should be pasteurized. 
At this temperature, 155° to 167° F., the dangerous 
microbes are killed and the milk still has a raw re- 
action, whereas boiled or sterilized milk has not, and 
is more difficult of digestion. 



''The Care and Feeding of Children, L. Emmett Holt, 
M.D.; The Care of the Baby, J. P. Crozer Griffith, M.D. ; 
Pediatrics, T. M. Rotch, M.D. ; Hygiene of the Nursery, Louis 
Starr, M.D. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 21 

Pasteurization of Milk. 

An apparatus for this purpose can be readily pur- 
chased which facihtates the process, though it can be 
done with an ordinary boiler and the use of a ther- 
mometer, but it requires constant watching and the 
results are not so uniform. 

When a " pasteurizer" is not obtainable proceed as 
follows : 

Nearly fill sterilized '^^ bottles with fresh milk and 
plug them with loose cotton (not absorbent). Place 
them on a wooden or perforated tin rest in a boiler 
partly filled with cold water. By the aid of a ther- 
mometer bring the water to a temperature of 155° to 
167° F., and continue it for twenty minutes. 

If not used immediately, cool quickly by placing 
the bottles first in tepid water, then cold water. Now 
keep the bottles of milk near the ice. 

Sterilization of Milk. 

Follow directions for Pasteurization of Milk, keep- 
ing the water surrounding the bottles boiling for 
twenty minutes. 

To Change the Flavor of Milk. 

A grating of nutmeg, a blade of mace, or a few 
raisins (cut into pieces and seeds removed) may be 
added to the milk, and then carefully strained out 
before serving. This is sometimes advisable in pro- 

^° To sterilize the bottles, have some water boiling in a 
large pan ; put the bottles in lengthwise, giving them a 
twirl, that they get wet all over as quickly as possible. There 
will then be no danger of breakage. 



22 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

longed feeding of milk or when the natural flavor is 
disagreeable to the patient. 

Or, place the bottles in cold water, then bring the 
water to boiling. 

Milk and Lime- Water. 

Lime-water may be purchased at a drug-store or 
made at home. (See page 37.) 

If the milk is desired hot, add the lime-water after 
it has been heated. 

Kumiss. 

Two quarts of milk. 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar (two ounces). 
One-third of a yeast-cake (compressed). 
Three tablespoonfuls of water. 

Heat the milk to 100° F., or use pasteurized and 
cool to 100° F. Dissolve one-third of a yeast-cake in 
two tablespoonfuls of the milk. Boil sugar with three 
tablespoonfuls of cold water. Mix all together and 
bottle at once. Cork firmly and stand in a warm 
place (70°) overnight. Next morning place the 
bottles carefully on their sides in a cool place for 
twenty-four hours. Open with a tap. Or, use ordi- 
nary beer-bottles. 

Kumiss is often refreshing, and when the taste for 
it is acquired, it is usually relished for an indefinite 
time. 

Milk or Raisin Porridge. 

Twelve large raisins. 

One tablespoonful of cornstarch or arrowroot. 

One pint of cold milk. 

One piece of loaf-sugar. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 23 

Split the raisins into halves, and remove the seeds. 
Cover them with the milk, and cook twenty minutes 
in a double boiler at a temperature of 155° to 165° 
F. Moisten the arrowroot with a very little cold 
water, add to the milk, and cook until it thickens. 
Strain and pour over the piece of sugar. 

Plain Junket. 

One cup of milk. 
One-fourth of junket tablet. ^^ 

Dissolve the junket tablet in one teaspoonful of 
cold water. Heat the milk to blood heat, or 100° 
F. Stir in the dissolved rennet ; pour into the serving 
dish or cup and stand in a warm place until con- 
gealed. Then cool. 

A grating of nutmeg, a clove, a little mace, or 
three large raisins (cut into pieces and seeds re- 
moved) may be added to the milk before heating, and 
strained out before adding the rennet. 

The white of an egg may be beaten to a froth and 
stirred into the milk before it is heated. 

Milk-Jelly (with Irish Moss). 

One-eighth cup of Irish moss. 
One cup of milk. 

Soak the moss in lukewarm water for ten minutes, 
then wash each piece separately and thoroughly in 
cold water ; drain, cover with the milk, and soak about 
one-half hour. Then slowly heat (stirring all the 
while) until the milk is steaming hot. Then simmer 
ten minutes. 

" Rennet extract may also be used, following directions 

for quantity as specified on the bottle. 



24 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Strain through a fine sieve, pressing through as 
much of the moss as possible. 

Pour into moulds or a dish and stand in a cold 
place to form a jelly. 

Irish Moss Gruel. 

Follow directions for Milk-Jelly, serving it hot in- 
stead of cold. 

If desired, the yolk of an egg may be slightly 
beaten and added a moment or so before serving. 

Modified Milk. 

Cow's milk, the most generally used substitute food 
for infants, must be modified to have it resemble 
human milk as nearly as possible. The knowledge 
of the fact that nature intended cow's milk for the 
calf proves the necessity of its modification before 
it will properly nourish the human infant. 

The following are approximate analyses of the two 
fluids. 

Woman's Milk. (Rotch.) 

Fat 4.0 per cent. 

Proteids 1.55 " 

Sugar 7.0 " 

Mineral matter 0.2 " 

Reaction alkaline. 

Bacteria none. 

Cow's Milk. (Leffmann.) 

Fat 4.0 per cent. 

Proteids 3.7 " 

Sugar 4.8 " 

Mineral matter 0.7 " 

Reaction acid. 

Bacteria present. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 25 

Human milk is very variable, especially in fat, and 
less so in proteids. In comparing the above analyses 
we see that cow's milk contains more proteids and 
salts, but less sugar. The proteids (principally casein) 
are also more coagulable '- and difficult of digestion. 
Then cow's milk has an acid reaction and bacteria are 
present. 

To overcome these differences, dilute the milk with 
water to get the proper proportion of casein, then add 
milk-sugar and fat in the form of cream. 

The acidity is overcome by the addition of lime- 
water, and the milk is pasteurized to overcome the 
danger from microbes. 

The proportions must be given and controlled by 
the physician, according to the age, size, etc., of the 
infant, whether the milk is prepared at laboratories 
established for this purpose or at home. 

Home Modification of Milk. 

To insure success cleanliness must be observed and 
directions followed implicitly. The proportions will 
be given by the attending physician. ^^ 

Milk. 

Water. 

Cream. 

Sugar. 

Lime-water. 

^" The difference is readily tested by adding rennet to the 
two fluids. The casein of the cow's milk will form a firm 
curd, while with the human milk a light loose curd is 
formed. 

" Utensils with directions may be purchased from dealers. 



26 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Mix, dissolving first the sugar in the (hot) water. 

Milk. — Herd milk is preferable to that obtained 
from one cow, and should be procured from a reliable 
dealer or farm. The milk should be unskimmed and 
kept in sealed jars or vessels. 

Whey made with rennet or pepsin is sometimes 
substituted for the milk. 

Water. — Use drinking water that has been boiled 
from two to five minutes. 

Cream. — Cream procured by a centrifugal machine 
(such as is used in large dairies), skimmed cream, or 
top-milk are used. 

The average " centrifugal" cream contains twenty 
per cent, fat, while the average cream obtained by 
skimming contains about sixteen per cent. The 
former is also more uniform. 

The average fat in top-milk is as follows : ^^ On 
one quart of milk after standing four hours, — 

Upper 4 ounces = 20.5 per cent. fat. 
" 6 " =16.0 " 
" 8 " =13.0 " 
"II " =10.0 " 
" 16 " = 7.0 " 

Siphon cream or top-milk may be obtained as fol- 
lows : 

Allow milk to stand in a glass jar or bottle (on 
ice) for four hours. Then fill a siphon ^^ with boiling 
water; keep the long arm closed while inserting the 
short arm gently down to the bottom of the jar, allow- 

"L. Emmett Holt, M.D., New York Medical Journal. 

^^ Siphon. A U-shaped tube, made of glass tubing, with 
one arm about eight inches long and the other arm twice 
this length. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 27 

ing the milk to flow out of the long arm. Siphon off 
all but the number of ounces desired, according to the 
table given. 

Sugar. — ]\Iilk-sugar (lactose) may be purchased at 
a drug-store and there divided into the small propor- 
tions desired, or it may be measured by means of a 
special one-half ounce milk-sugar measure,^^ as fol- 
lows: Fill the measure with milk-sugar, give it but 
two gentle taps, and with a knife or piece of stiff 
paper cut oft* all the sugar that remains above the 
level of the top. 

Cane-sugar is sometimes used instead of the milk- 
sugar, but in smaller quantities (usually one-half the 
amount of milk-sugar required). 

Lime-water may be purchased at a drug-store or 
prepared at home as directed on page 37. 

Pasteurized. — This may be done after the ingre- 
dients are mixed and placed in clean bottles. Pro- 
ceed as directed on page 21. 

Modified Milk (Whey and White of Egg). 

Whey. 
Cream. 

White of eggs. 
Water. 
Milk-sugar. 

^'^ This one-half ounce milk-sugar measure may be pur- 
chased or made at home as follows : Secure a small powder- 
or pill-box, have one-half ounce of milk-sugar weighed by 
a druggist. Turn the sugar into the box, give the box two 
gentle taps (to level the sugar), then with a lead-pencil 
mark a rim the height of the sugar. Cut the box off at the 
mark and it is ready for future measurements. 



28 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

See page 36 for making whey with rennet or pep- 
sin. Bring the whey to a temperature of 155° to 
160° F/^ Then cool it. Place some of the desired 
quantity of whey and the white of eggs in a glass jar 
with tight-fitting lid. Shake gently until well blended. 
Strain carefully, then add the milk-sugar, water, and 
cream. Mix thoroughly, then stand in a cold place 
until wanted for use. Then heat to desired tempera- 
ture. 

Peptonized or Predigested Milk. 

See page 29. 

Milk and Arrowroot- Jelly (for Infants). 

One pint of milk. 

One-half pint of water. 

Three level teaspoonfuls of arrowroot. 

A few grains of salt. 

Bring the water to boiling, moisten the arrowroot 
with a little cold water, pour into the boiling water, 
stirring all the while. Cook five minutes. Cool some- 
what, then slowly add the milk, stirring all the while. 
Bring all to a temperature of 98° to 100° F. (or feed- 
ing temperature). 

Milk and Barley-Jelly (for Infants). 

One pint of milk. 

One-half pint of boiling water. 

Three level teaspoonfuls of barley flour.^^ 

A few grains of salt. 

" The whey is brought to this temperature to stop the 
action of the pepsin or rennet. If brought to boiling, the 
whey will have a curdled appearance. 

^^ Barley flour may be purchased at a drug-store. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 29 

Bring the water to boiling, moisten the flour with 
a httle cold water, pour into the boiling water, stir- 
ring all the while. Cook ten minutes ; cool somewhat, 
then slowly add the milk, stirring continually. Bring 
all to a temperature of 98° to 100° F. (or feeding 
temperature). 

Barley- jelly may also be made from the whole 
grain (as directed on page 89), but it requires long 
cooking. 

¥¥ 

PEPTONIZED FOODS.^^ 

Peptonized foods comprise those digested or 
partly so with pancreatic extract and baking soda 
(sodium bicarbonate), which are generally used, and 
may be purchased already prepared in a convenient 
form or measured at a drug-store in proportions de- 
sired. 

Partially Peptonized Milk (especially adapted for 
Infants). 

(Suggested by J. P. Crozer Griffith, M.D.) 

Procure from the druggist powders each contain- 
ing five grains of pancreatic extract and fifteen grains 
of baking soda (sodium bicarbonate). This is enough 
for one pint (sixteen fluidounces) of milk. Only pep- 
tonize enough milk for one feeding. Then use it 
immediately. 

^^ The Care and Feeding of Children, L. Emmett Holt, 
M.D. ; The Care of the Baby, J. P. Crozer Griffith, M.D. ; 
Hygiene of the Nursery, Louis Starr, M.D. 



30 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Ascertain the quantity of milk desired for the one 
feeding, and use the proportion of powder accord- 
ingly, — viz., four ounces (one gill) of milk will require 
one-fourth of the powder. 

Place the powder in a clean bottle, add a little cold 
water (two tablespoonfuls), shake well, then add the 
milk, shake again. Place the bottle in water and heat 
slowly, taking five or six minutes to bring it to a 
temperature of 98° F. to 100° F. (or feeding tempera- 
ture). Use immediately. 

Milk so prepared has no bitter taste of the pepton- 
izing agent. 

Peptonized Modified Milk. 

As modified milk is diluted it will require less pan- 
creatic extract and baking soda than whole milk, other- 
wise follow preceding directions, — viz., one pint of 
modified milk containing one-fourth cream and milk 
or top-milk will require one-fourth as much of the 
pancreatic extract and soda as required for one pint 
of whole or plain milk. 

Peptonized Milk. 

Five grains of pancreatic extract. 
Fifteen grains of baking soda (sodium bicarbo- 
nate). 

One pint of milk. 
One gill of water. 

Put the soda and extract into a clean jar or bottle, 
add the gill of cold water, shake well, then add the 
pint of milk, and shake the mixture again. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 31 

Place the jar or bottle in a large pitcher or pan con- 
taining water at a temperature of 115° F. (or as warm 
as the hand can be kept in it without discomfort). 
Leave it in the warm bath for ten minutes. 

The milk should then be quickly cooled and placed 
on ice. 

Or, at the end of the ten minutes, pour the milk into 
a saucepan and bring it quickly to boiling. 

Either way the action of the ferment is checked. 
When boiled the ferment is destroyed. When cooled 
it is only checked until reheated or it enters the 
stomach, when it again becomes active. 

In bringing peptonized milk to boiling it must be 
remembered that the pancreatic extract will be active 
part of the time, and a more bitter taste will be 
developed than when first tasted. 

If allowed by the physician, peptonized milk may be 
made agreeable to many patients by adding a grating 
of nutmeg, sugar, or brandy to taste. 

It may also be taken with Apollinaris, Vichy, or 
Seltzer. 

Pour the water into a glass, then quickly add the 
peptonized milk, and drink before effervescence is lost. 

Specially Peptonized Milk. 

For all recipes where the milk is to be mixed with 
fruit- juices or acid. 

Five grains of pancreatic extract. 
Fifteen grains of baking soda (sodium bicarbo- 
nate). 

One pint of milk. 
One gill of cold water. 



32 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Put the soda and extract into a clean jar or bottle, 
add the gill of cold water, shake well, then add the 
pint of milk and shake the mixture again. 

Place the jar or bottle in a large pitcher or pan 
containing water at a temperature of 115° F. (or as 
warm as the hand can be kept in it without dis- 
comfort). Keep it in this warm bath for one hour. 

Pour the milk into a saucepan and heat to boiling. 

Use immediately or place on ice. 

Peptonized Gruel. 

One-half pint of gruel. 
One-half pint of milk. 

Use any well-made gruel, add the milk, then pro- 
ceed as directed for one pint of milk. 

Keep the gruel in the warm-water bath five or six 
minutes if desired only partially peptonized and with- 
out a bitter taste, or thirty minutes if desired com- 
pletely peptonized. 

Peptonized Milk with Porridge. 

Pour " partially peptonized milk" over your por- 
ridge instead of ordinary milk. 

Peptonized Milk-Toast. 

Pour hot milk over well-toasted bread, then mash 
this into a pulp. 

Follow directions for Partially Peptonized Milk, 
substituting one pint of the milk-toast for one pint of 
milk. 

H desired completely peptonized follow directions 
under Specially Peptonized Milk. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 33 

Peptonized Beef-Tea. 

One pint of beef-tea (made with finely chopped 
beef). 

Fifteen grains of pancreatic extract. 
Fifteen grains of baking soda. 

Mix the extract and soda with a httle cold water, 
add the beef-tea, place all in a jar and then into a 
water-bath of a temperature of 110° to 115° F., and 
keep it at that temperature two and a half to three 
hours. Bring quickly to boiling. 

The beef-tea may be strained or not as required. 
Season to taste with salt. 



Peptonized Oysters. 

Six large oysters. 

One-half pint of water. 

One-half pint of milk. 

Fifteen grains of pancreatic extract. 

Fifteen grains of baking soda. 

Place the oysters, their juice, and the water in a 
saucepan and boil several minutes, drain, chop the 
oysters very fine with a silver knife and fork. Put 
them with the oyster-broth into a glass jar. Mix 
the powder with a little cold water, then add to the 
oysters. Mix thoroughly. Put in a water-bath of 
about 115° F. and keep it at that temperature about 
one hour and a half. Then add the milk, pour all 
into a saucepan, and bring to boiling in five to six 
minutes. Season and serve. 

3 



34 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Peptonized Milk-Punch. 

One tablespoonful of rum. 

One cup of " specially" peptonized milk. 

Two tablespoonful s of finely crushed ice. 

Place the ice and rum in a glass, then gradually 
add the milk, stirring all the while. 

If desired, grate a little nutmeg over the top. 

Peptonized Lemonade. 

One cup of cold '' specially" peptonized milk. 
Two tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice. 
Three tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Mix the sugar and lemon- juice together, add the 
milk slowly; when well mixed, serve. 

Milk-Jelly. 

One ounce (one-half box) of gelatin. 
One gill of cold water. 
One pint of " specially" peptonized milk. 
One-half cup of sugar. 
Juice of one lemon. 
Juice of one orange. 

Two tablespoonfuls of rum, sherry, or brandy. 
Grated yellow rind of one-fourth of a lemon and 
an orange. 

Cover the gelatin with the cold water and let 
stand until dissolved. 

Heat the milk, add the sugar and flavorings. When 
well mixed add the gelatin. Strain, and when nearly 
cool pour into moulds or glasses and stand near ice. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 35 

Other foods may be peptonized, for example, pep- 
tonized milk may be substituted for plain milk in 
making most of the ordinary dishes in which milk is 
used. 



DRINKS. 

Under this heading, the most important considera- 
tion is that of adding something to increase the nutri- 
tive value while allaying thirst. 

When cereals are employed, they require thorough 
cooking and careful straining. 

When albumen is used fresh eggs are required, the 
shells of which must be washed before they are 
opened. They should also be used as soon as pos- 
sible after they are removed from their shells, as they 
are subject to speedy decomposition when exposed to 
the air. 

Believing the white of egg to be the purest form of 
uncooked albumen, it is a valuable way of giving a 
patient nourishment with different drinks. The pres- 
ence of the egg albumen need not be disclosed to the 
patient, as the thought of a raw egg is usually dis- 
tasteful. There are many ways of concealing the fact, 
and one can choose those best adapted for the require- 
ments of the patient. 

When a concentrated form of albumen is required 
use the Dried Albumen, 

Albumenized Water. 

Put a cup of cold water and the white of one or 
two eggs into a jar with a lid. Shake until thor- 



36 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

oughly blended. Strain carefully through a fine 
strainer or cheese-cloth. If not used immediately, 
keep near the ice and shake again before using. 

Barley-water, rice-water, whey, and cold lemonade 
may be albumenized in the same manner. 

Albumenized Milk. 

Use cold milk or that which has been pasteurized 
and cooled to blood heat. Follow directions in pre- 
ceding recipe, substituting a cup of milk for the water. 

A grating of nutmeg may be added if desired. 



Plain Whey (with Rennet). 

One pint of milk. 

One-half rennet tablet or rennet extract.-^ 

Dissolve the rennet in a teaspoonful of cold water. 
Heat the milk to blood heat, or ioo° F. Add the 
dissolved tablet, and stand in a warm place until con- 
gealed. Then stand in a cold place (about a half -hour 
or longer). 

Break the curd with a fork and strain slowly. See 
recipes for Lemonade, Albumenized Water, and Egg- 
nog n. 

Whey (with Pepsin). 

One-half pint of milk. 

One teaspoonful of essence of pepsin. 

•'^ The liquid extract of rennet differs in strength, so use 
the quantity designated on the bottle (enough to form a firm 
jelly). 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 37 

Heat the milk to a temperature of about 115° F. 
(or never so hot that the finger cannot be kept in it 
with comfort). Gently stir in the pepsin. Let it 
stand in a warm place until it has formed a firm jelly, 
then stand in a cold place (about a half -hour or 
longer). Then beat with a fork until the curd is 
finely divided, then strain slowly. 

Wine Whey. 

Heat a cup of milk, and when it begins to steam add 
four tablespoonfuls of sherry wine. Bring to a boil. 
Strain carefully and slowly. Add a teaspoonful of 
sugar and serve. 

The whey may also be made with lemon- juice in- 
stead of the wine. 

Lime-Water. 

Place a piece of unslaked lime about the size of a 
walnut in an agate or earthenware vessel. Cover with 
as much water as desired (filtered or rain water 
should be selected). Stir thoroughly, then stand 
aside to settle until clear. Use only the clear solu- 
tion from the top. 

Toast-Water. 

One slice of bread. 

One cup of boiling water. 

Toast the bread ; pour over the boiling water ; cover, 
and let stand thirty minutes. Strain and cool. 

Apple- Water I. 

Bake one good-sized apple until tender, put in a 
bowl and cover with one pint of boiling water. Cover 



38 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

and let stand until the apple is cold; strain. If de- 
sired, sugar may be added. 

Apple-Water II. 

Pare, core, and slice a well-flavored apple. Cover 
it with a pint of cold water. Bring slowly to a boil, 
then simmer until tender. Strain, and sweeten to 
taste. Serve hot or cold. 

This recipe may also be used for peaches, French 
prunes, raisins, figs, etc. 

Apple-Water III. 

Select a well-flavored apple. Pare and slice finely, 
cover with a half-pint of boiling water. Cover and 
let stand until the apple is cold. Strain, and sweeten 
slightly to taste. 

Currant- Water (from Fresh Fruit). 

Thoroughly wash a pint of currants. Put them in 
a saucepan, and add a pint of cold water. Bring 
slowly to a boil, then simmer about five minutes. 
Strain through two thicknesses of gauze or cheese- 
cloth. Cool and sweeten to taste. This may be diluted 
with water before serving if desired. 

Raspberries and blackberries may be prepared in 
the same way. 

Currant-Jelly Water. 

Dissolve one teaspoonful of currant- jelly in one cup 
(one-half pint) of boiling water. Serve cold. 

ApoUinaris or Seltzer Water may also be used in 
the same way, by adding it to the currant- jelly which 
has been dissolved in a very little boiling water. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 39 

A Glass of Cream. 

Whip cold cream with an ordinary egg-beater until 
slightly frothed. Serve in a glass with toasted crackers 
or sippets. 

Rice- Water I. 

Wash two tablespoonfuls of rice and cover it with 
one quart of cold water. Cook in a double boiler two 
hours, or until reduced to one pint. Strain, add one- 
eighth teaspoonful of salt and serve hot or cold. 

The flavor may be changed by cooking twelve 
raisins (cut into pieces and free from seeds) or 
grated yellow rind of one-eighth of a lemon with the 
rice. 

If desired, one or two tablespoonfuls of sherry or 
port-wine may be added and then slightly sweetened. 

It can also be albumenized or served in an eggnog 
or lemonade. 

Rice- Water II. 

Follow recipe for Barley-Water II., using one 
tablespoonful of rice flour instead of barley flour. 

Oatmeal-Water. 

Add one tablespoonful of rolled oats or oatmeal and 
one-eighth teaspoonful of salt to one quart of boiling 
water and cook in a double boiler at least two hours. 
Strain and serve hot or cold. This will make about 
one pint. 

Barley-Water I. 

One ounce (two teaspoon fuls) of pearl barley. 
One-eighth teaspoonful of salt. 
One quart of cold water. 



40 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Wash the barley; cover with cold water; bring to 
boiling and drain. Cover again with one quart of cold 
water. Bring to boiling and simmer two hours, which 
will reduce it to about one pint. Strain and add the 
salt. Stand in a cold place. (Use one-third barley- 
water to two-thirds milk). 

When not desired plain or used with milk a piece 
of loaf-sugar and a teaspoonful of lemon- juice may be 
added. The grated yellow rind of one-eighth of a 
lemon may be cooked with the barley to give it a zest. 
If a stimulant is ordered, add two tablespoonfuls of 
sherry or port-wine. 

Barley-Water II. 

Moisten one tablespoonful of barley flour with a 
little cold water and stir into one quart of boiling 
water. Simmer fifteen minutes, strain, and add one- 
eighth teaspoonful of salt. 

If not desired plain, see above recipe. 

Arrowroot- Water. 

One level tablespoonful of arrowroot. 
One pint of boiling water. 

Have the water boiling in a saucepan, and stir in 
the arrowroot, which has been mixed with a little cold 
water; boil five minutes. 

Gum-Arabic Water. 

One-half pint of boiling water. 
One teaspoonful of gum-arabic. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 41 

Dissolve the gum-arabic with the hot water. Serve 
plain or as a lemonade. 

Lemonade. 

Mix thoroughly two tablespoonfuls of lemon- juice 
and the same quantity of granulated sugar; stir in 
slowly one cup of water (boiling preferred). Strain 
and serve cold. 

Rice-water, barley-water, whey, or albumenized 
water may be substituted for the plain water. 

If nutriment is desired, follow directions for Albu- 
menized Water. 

Hot Lemonade. 

Follow above recipe, using the water boiling hot. 
If desired, add a tablespoonful of whiskey and serve 
immediately. 

Egg Lemonade. 

Beat one egg until very light. Add two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar and the same quantity of lemon- juice. 
Stir in slowly a cup of water. When well mixed, 
strain carefully and serve. 

A grating of nutmeg may also be added. 

Lemonade (with White of Egg). 

Make a cup of lemonade as directed above. Beat 
the white of an egg to a froth, slowly add a teaspoon- 
ful of powdered sugar and beat until quite stiff. Pour 
into it the lemonade. Whip lightly and allow part of 
the egg to come to the top. Serve in a glass with a 
spoon. 



42 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Irish Moss Tea or Hot Lemonade. 

One-eighth cup of Irish moss. 
One cup of water. 
Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Two tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice. 

Soak the moss in lukewarm water ten minutes, then 
wash each piece thoroughly in cold water. Drain, and 
soak in the cup of water a half-hour. Heat slowly 
(stirring all the while) until the water steams, then 
simmer ten minutes. 

Strain through a fine sieve, pressing through as 
much of the moss as possible. Stir in the sugar and 
lemon- juice. Reheat and serve hot. 

Flaxseed-Tea. 

One teaspoonful of flaxseed. 
One and a half cups of boiling water. 
One teaspoonful of lemon-juice. 
One teaspoonful of sugar. 

Add the water to the flaxseed and simmer about an 
hour, drain, add the sugar and lemon- juice. Serve hot 
or cold. 

Eggnog I. 
One egg. 

One tablespoonful of sugar. 
Grating of nutmeg. 

One-half pint of milk (cold, or pasteurized and 
cooled to 100° F.). 

One -teaspoonful of brandy or tablespoonful of wine. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 43 

Separate the egg, beat the white to a stiff froth, and 
add the yolk. Beat again, add the milk, stir well, and 
strain. Add the sugar and nutmeg, then pour from 
one vessel to another several times. Add the stimu- 
lant and serve cold or lukewarm. 

Eggnog II. 

One egg. 

One tablespoonful of sugar. 
One or two tablespoonfuls of cream. 
One-half pint of cold water or whey. 
Grating of nutmeg. 

One teaspoonful of brandy or one tablespoonful of 
wine. 

Separate the egg, beat the white to a stiff froth, add 
the yolk, and beat again. Add the water and cream, 
strain carefully. Add the sugar and nutmeg and pour 
from one vessel to another several times. Add wine 
or brandy and serve cold or lukewarm. 

Dried Albumen. 

Scald a large china plate and have it hot enough 
to dry quickly. When cooled, just cover the dish 
with the whites of fresh eggs. Stand this in a warm 
place (125° F.) until the water in the white of egg has 
evaporated and the albumen is dry. It should then 
look like pieces of gelatin. Break it apart and place 
in sterilized jars, cover tightly, and it is ready for 
immediate or future use. 

This is of much value when nutriment is desired 
in a concentrated form. 

It can be dissolved in any liquid, as beef-tea, milk, 



44 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

etc., and if not served cold, must not be heated be- 
yond a temperature of 130° F. or it will begin to coag- 
ulate. 

Milk-Punch. 

One cup of milk. 

One teaspoonful of sugar. 

Grating of nutmeg. 

One tablespoonful of brandy or whiskey. 

Mix all together thoroughly; either beat with an 
egg-beater until frothy or pour in a long stream from 
one vessel to another. 

Sherry and Egg. 

Beat a fresh egg until light, add a teaspoonful of 
granulated sugar, and mix well. Slowly stir in four 
tablespoonfuls of cold water and two tablespoonfuls of 
sherry wine. Strain and serve immediately. 

Mulled Wine. 

One-half pint of water. 

One egg. 

One-half gill of wine. 

One teaspoonful of finely broken stick cinnamon. 

One tablespoonful of sugar. 

One whole clove. 

Add the clove and cinnamon to the water, bring 
slowly to a boil, and steep ten minutes. Beat the egg 
until light and add the sugar. Add the wine to the 
water, and when hot, strain and pour slowly into the 
egg and sugar, beating all the while. 

Beer and ale may be mulled in the same way. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 45 

Water. 

To remove the danger of disease germs in con- 
taminated districts bring to a boil and continue to 
boil at least twenty minutes. Pour immediately into 
sterilized bottles; plug with sterilized cotton. Cool 
near or on the ice. 

When making tea and coffee, it is most important 
that cold water is brought to a boil, as it soon becomes 
flat and insipid upon continued boiling. 

Tea. 

One-half level teaspoonful of tea. 
One cup or one-half pint of water. 

Scald the pot and drain. Bring the cold water to 
a boil and pour immediately over the tea. Cover the 
pot for five minutes, and serve in a heated cup. 

If not served immediately, remove the tea-leaves 
and keep warm below the boiling-point. 

It must be remembered that '* tannin," the objec- 
tionable ingredient of tea, is rendered soluble by boil- 
ing or long steeping. 

Coffee (Pulverized). 

One teaspoonful of pulverized coffee. 
One-half pint of water. 

Fill a cup with hot water. Use freshly boiling 
water and pour over the coffee at the first boil ; let 
stand one minute. Drain the cup ; half fill with scalded 
milk; pour in the coffee and serve. 

If desired stronger, use more coffee. A French 
coffee-pot should be used. If not, put the coffee in 



46 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

an ordinary coffee-pot, pour on the boiling water, 
cover, and allow it to settle a few minutes. 

Coffee (Ground). 

Two tablespoonfuls of coffee (freshly ground). 

One-half cup of cold water. 

One cup of boiling water. 

One-half the white and shell of one egg. 

Place the coffee, one-fourth of a cup of cold water, 
and the white and crushed shell in a pot. Mix well, 
then pour over the cup of boiling water. Slowly, 
bring all just to a boil ; add one-fourth of a cup of cold 
water and put it aside, about ten minutes, in a warm 
place to settle. 

Cocoa I. 

One tablespoonful of cocoa. 
One cup of boiling water. 
One teaspoonful of sugar. 

Moisten the cocoa with a little cold water; add the 
boiling water, and stir until it boils. Add the sugar, 
and serve with scalded milk or whipped cream. 

Cocoa II. 

One tablespoonful of cocoa. 
Three-fourths cup of cold milk. 
One teaspoonful of sugar. 
One-fourth cup of cold water. 

Moisten the cocoa with the cold water; bring to a 
boil. Add the milk and bring to the pasteurizing 
point (165° F.). Add the sugar and serve in a heated 
cup. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 47 

Egg Chocolate. 

One cup of hot cocoa. 
One egg. 

Make a cup of cocoa (with either milk or water). 
Separate the egg, beat the white to a stiff froth, add 
the yolk, and beat again. Slowly add the hot cocoa, 
beating all the while. Serve in a heated cup or chill 
near the ice and serve cold. 



¥¥ 



TOASTS. 

It is an art to make good toast and one worthy of 
practice. The object is to convert the starch into 
dextrin, giving the starch its first step in digestion 
and that agreeable flavor that is noticeable in the 
crusts of bread. This can only be accomplished by 
subjecting the bread to a high temperature after it 
has been thoroughly dried. 

If the bread is browned at once on the outside the 
moisture is shut in the middle of the slice, which will 
prevent it from reaching a higher temperature than 
212° F., whereas a temperature of about 400° F. is 
necessary to change it to dextrin. 

Toast must, therefore, be crisp to the very centre 
and a golden brown. When properly made it can be 
easily broken, and is quickly moistened by the saliva. 
It also makes mastication absolutely necessary, which 
is a great advantage, especially to invalids and chil- 
dren. 

When a soft toast is desirable, moisten the crisp 



48 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

toast by dipping it quickly into hot water, milk, or 
stock. 

Toast should be served immediately from the fire; 
when this is not possible, cover with a napkin and 
keep in a warm place or it will become very hard. 

As toast is often the only form of bread allowed a 
patient, many varieties should be given, by changing 
the shape, thickness, etc. 

Save all the trimmings from round toast, bread- 
boxes, etc., for bread-crumbs, scallop dishes, croutons, 
etc. 

To make Toast. 

Cut the bread (preferably a day or so old) into even 
slices, one-fourth to one-half inch in thickness, remove 
the crust (or not, as desired). 

Thoroughly dry in a moderate heat; either in the 
oven (leaving the door open), on a broiler, or on an 
asbestos mat on top of the stove. Then increase the 
heat, by means of a direct flame or by closing the 
oven door, until it quickly becomes a golden brown 
(to the very centre). Serve warm. 

Bread cut into as thin slices as possible and then 
toasted quickly, but through to the very centre, is a 
dainty way of preparing toast. 

When these thin slices of bread are cut into narrow 
strips they are called " Sippets." 

When making toast on an alcohol stove or chafing- 
dish, use an asbestos mat and cut the bread very thin. 

Toasted Rolls. 

With a fork break any desired roll into halves, then 
dry, and toast them as directed above. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 49 

The round, oblong, or horse-shoe roll may be used 
by way of variety. 

Pulled Bread. 

With a sharp knife remove all the crust from a 
loaf of bread, then with two forks separate the loaf 
into halves lengthwise, then into quarters, and so on 
until you have long irregular sticks about one inch in 
diameter. 

Place the bread thus prepared in a baking-pan (best 
lined with a plain paper) and then in a slow oven (or 
if the oven is hot, leave the door open) until thor- 
oughly dry to the very centre. Increase the heat until 
it becomes a golden brown. (See directions for 
Toast.) 

This bread may now be kept in a dry place for 
several months or until used. 

Toasted Bread-Boxes. 

Cut a slice of bread two inches in thickness, then 
cut out a block two inches square. This will give 
you a cube. With a sharp knife make a hollow 
centre. Dry, and toast the same as Pulled Bread. 

This may be filled with creamed chicken, oysters, 
etc. 

These boxes may also be cut oblong or round before 
making the hollow centre. 

Croutons. 

Cut bread into slices one-fourth of an inch in thick- 
ness, then into blocks. Place in a baking-pan and 
then in a slow oven until thoroughly dry. Increase 
the heat until they quickly become a golden brown. 

4 



50 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

These may be kept in a tin box or covered jar 
until wanted for use. Serve with soups, etc. 

Zwieback. 

Cut ordinary rusks into slices one-half of an inch 
in thickness ; then dry, and toast the same as directed 
for toast. 

Sponge-cake, gluten bread, whole wheat and white 
bread dough slightly sweetened and made into bis- 
cuits, may also be used. 

Panada (with Crackers). 

Select unsweetened crackers, place them in a double 
boiler, and cover with boiling water or hot milk; 
when thoroughly wet drain, and then let them steam 
in the double boiler for fifteen minutes. Serve whole 
with a little salt and butter or a little cream. Add a 
grating of nutmeg if desired. 

Panada (Zwieback). 

Break well-made zwieback into small pieces, then 
follow the above recipe, substituting these pieces for 
the crackers. 

Toasted Crackers. 

Dip any desired plain cracker quickly into hot water, 
then toast until a golden brown. 

Water-Toast. 

Toast bread as directed above. Dip each slice 
quickly into slightly salted water, and break over the 
top small pieces of butter. Serve immediately on a 
heated plate, as it is only relished when very hot. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 51 

Milk-Toast. 

Use pulled bread or slices of freshly made toast. 
Place in a heated bowl, and pour over as much hot 
(but not boiled) milk as desired. Add a few grains 
of salt and a small piece of butter if allowed. Serve 
immediately. 

Or, when little milk is required, put the milk in a 
double boiler, and when hot (but not boiling) dip each 
piece of toast quickly, and serve on a heated plate 
with a few grains of salt and a small piece of butter. 

Or, the milk may be served separately in a heated 
pitcher and poured over the bread just before it is 
eaten. 

Cream-Toast I. 

One cup of milk. 

One teaspoonful of cornstarch or arrowroot. 

One or two slices of bread. 

A few grains of salt. 

A small piece of butter. 

Toast the bread as above directed. Put the milk in 
a saucepan or double boiler, and when hot add the corn- 
starch, which has been moistened with a little cold 
milk, and stir until smooth; add salt, and pour over 
the toast. Add the butter, and serve immediately. 

If more nutriment is desired, the thickened milk 
may be stirred into the well-beaten white of one egg. 

Cream-Toast II. 

One cup of milk. 

One or two slices of bread. 

The yolks of one or two eggs. 

A few grains of salt. 

A small piece of butter. 



52 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Toast the bread as directed. Put the milk in a 
saucepan or double boiler, and when hot stir in the 
yolks of eggs well beaten. Cook a few minutes, but 
do not allow it to boil or it will have a curdled ap- 
pearance. Season, pour over the toast, and serve 
immediately with the butter. 

Vermicelli Toast. 

Follow the recipe for cream or milk-toast, and heap 
over it the hard-boiled yolk of one or two eggs, 
which have been pressed through a sieve. 

Bread Soup. 

One small slice of bread. 
One cup of cold water. 
A small piece of butter. 
One-fourth cup of milk. 
One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 

Toast the bread thoroughly ; break into small pieces, 
pour over the water, bring slowly to a boil and simmer 
five minutes. Add salt and milk, and when hot serve 
in a heated bowl with a small piece of butter or a 
teaspoonful of cream. When adding the milk the 
slightly beaten yolk of an egg may also be stirred into 
the soup. 

Beef Marrow on Toast I. 

Select a piece of shin-bone, have it carefully split, 
so you can remove the marrow in one piece. Cut into 
slices about one-half inch in thickness. Cover with 
boiling stock, broth, or salted water. Cover and let 
soak while you make some toast. Then drain the 
marrow, place it on the toast, then into a hot oven for 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 53 

five minutes. Season lightly and sprinkle over it 
finely chopped parsley. Serve very hot. 

Beef Marrow on Toast II. 

Select and slice the marrow as directed in pre- 
ceding recipe. Have some beef-broth or stock boil- 
ing in a saucepan, add the slices of marrow, cover and 
cook from ten to fifteen minutes. Drain, and serve 
at once on freshly made toast. Season lightly with 
salt or celery salt. 

If desired, the toast may be softened with the hot 
broth, or use beef- juice. 

Beef Marrow on Toast III. 

Select a piece of bone (six or eight inches long) 
from the shin of beef. Seal both ends with a paste 
made of flour and cold water. Then wrap with strips 
of muslin and tie securely. Cover with boiling water 
and cook one and one-half hours. Remove the muslin 
and flour-paste. Scrape out the marrow with a long- 
tined fork. Serve on freshly made toast. Season with 
salt and pepper. Celery salt may be used if desired. 
The toast may be moistened with beef- juice. 



¥¥ 



SOUPS. 

When making broths or soups cover the meat or 
vegetable with cold water and cook them slowly to 
draw out all the flavor and soluble matter. The meat 
or vegetable should also be cut into small pieces to 



54 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

allow the water to act more readily upon it and thus 
get a richer soup and in less time. 

Meat soups are best made the day before they are 
to be used, or at least several hours beforehand, that 
the soup may get thoroughly cold, then all the fat 
can be easily removed before it is reheated. 

When this is not possible, strain the soup through 
two thicknesses of gauze or cheese-cloth (that have 
been wrung out in cold water). If any fat remains, 
skim it off with tissue-paper or crusts of bread. A 
soup is poorly served if any fat is found floating on it. 

Use agate, porcelain, or earthenware kettles when 
making soups, and always stir with a wooden spoon. 

Clear soups contain little nourishment unless a 
cereal or grain, as rice, barley, etc., is added, but they 
are stimulants, and often prepare the stomach for the 
substantial dishes that follow. 

To be palatable they should be served hot, unless 
served very cold in the form of a jelly. 

Some form of toasted bread, crackers, or croutons 
is usually acceptable when served with them. 

If clear soups are desired slightly thickened, add 
one-half tablespoonful of arrowroot (moistened with 
a little cold water) for each pint of soup. 

Chicken Soup. 

One pint of chicken stock. 

One-half tablespoonful of arrowroot or cornstarch. 

Bring the stock to a boil, add the cornstarch or 
arrowroot, which has been mixed with a little cold 
water, stir until it thickens and is clear. Season to 
taste, and serve with egg or chicken croutons (see 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 55 

page 60) or two tablespoonfuls of well-cooked rice, 
pearl tapioca, or noodles. 

Chicken Tapioca Soup I. 

One and one-fourth pints of chicken stock. 
One tablespoonful of tapioca (pearl). 
One-sixteenth teaspoonful of celery-seed or a few 
tops of celery. 

A few drops of onion- juice. 
Salt to taste. 

Soak the tapioca in cold vrater, overnight or for 
several hours at least. Drain and cover with the 
stock. Cook in a double boiler until the tapioca is 
very soft (add the celery one-half hour before re- 
moving it from the fire), add the onion-juice if de- 
sired, season to taste, and serve very hot with sippets 
or croutons. 

Chicken Tapioca Soup II. 

Substitute granulated tapioca for the pearl, but omit 
the soaking. It will also require a much shorter time 
to cook. 

Chicken Soup (v^ith Rice). 

One and one-fourth pints of chicken stock. 
One tablespoonful of rice. 
A few drops of onion- juice. 
A few tops of celery. 

Wash the rice, cut the celery into small pieces, 
cover with the cold stock, and cook in a double boiler 
until very soft. Add the onion- juice if desired. Sea- 
son to taste. Serve hot with sippets. 

If desired, the soup may be pressed through a sieve. 



56 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Noodle Soup. 

Bring one pint of well-flavored stock to a boil, add 
one-fourth cup of noodles, and boil fifteen minutes. 
Chicken Stock is preferable. 

Vermicelli Soup. 

Follow directions for Noodle Soup, substituting 
vermicelli for the noodles. 

Turkish Soup. 

One pint of stock. 

One tablespoonful of rice. 

The yolk of one egg. 

One tablespoonful of cream. 

Place the stock and rice in a double boiler and cook 
until tender. Press through a fine sieve, reheat, and 
season to taste. Beat the yolk and cream until light, 
add the soup gradually (beating all the while). Re- 
turn to the fire for a moment or so, being careful it 
does not boil, or it will have a curdled appearance. 

Tomato Bouillon. 

One cup of stewed and strained tomatoes. 
One cup of stock. 

A piece of celery or a few drops of onion- juice. 
Salt to taste. 

Select and wash ripe tomatoes, cut them into small 
pieces, place them in a saucepan and cook quickly 
until soft (about five minutes). Rub through a sieve, 
rejecting all the seeds (if they were not removed be- 
fore cooking). 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 57 

Heat the stock, add the tomatoes ; when hot clarify 
by beating the white of an egg and a tablespoonful 
of water until well mixed only, add it to the soup, 
bring to a boil, and strain through two thicknesses of 
cheese-cloth or a very fine strainer. 

Reheat, add the onion- juice if desired, and season 
to taste with salt. 

Serve in heated cups with croutons, sippets, or egg- 
croutons. 

If celery is used, cut it into small pieces and cook 
it with the tomatoes. Strain out before serving. 

Tomato Soup. 

Follow preceding recipe, omit the clarifying with 
white of egg and thicken it with one level table- 
spoonful of arrowroot which has been moistened 
with a little cold water. Pour into the hot soup 
and stir until clear. 

Brown Soup with Croutons. 

One pint of, stock. 

One tablespoonful of browned flour. 

One level tablespoonful of butter. 

Place ordinary bread flour in a smooth baking- or 
frying-pan, then place it in a moderate oven or, better, 
on top of the stove, shaking and turning the flour 
until it becomes a golden brown. 

Rub the flour and butter together in a saucepan 
until smooth, add the stock cold, and stir over the 
fire in all directions until it comes to a boil. Serve 
in heated bowls with croutons. 



58 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Vegetable Soup I. 

One pint of stock. 

One-half ear of fresh corn. 

One-fourth of a small carrot. 

One teaspoonful of rice. 

One tablespoonful of young peas. 

One small tomato. 

One piece of celery. 

Salt to taste. 

Wash the rice, cut the celery and carrot into small 
pieces, add the peas and stock (cold). Simmer 
twenty-five minutes. Score the corn and press out 
the centre of each grain, prepare the tomato as for 
stewing, removing skin and seeds. Add them to the 
soup, and simmer five minutes longer. Season to 
taste, and serve in heated bowls. 

If desired, any of the above vegetables may be 
omitted. 

Vegetable Soup II. 

Follow preceding recipe, pressing the soup through 
a fine sieve before serving. 

Consomme. 

One-fourth of a shin of beef. 

One-half knuckle of veal. 

Two quarts of cold water. 

One level teaspoonful of granulated sugar. 

One small onion. 

Wipe off the beef and knuckle with a damp cloth. 
Remove the meat in small pieces from off the bones. 
Sprinkle the sugar over the bottom of the heated 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 59 

soup-kettle, and when brown add a quarter of a cup 
of cold water and the onion chopped fine. Cook for 
five minutes, then add the bones and meat, and cover 
them with the two quarts of cold water. Bring to a 
boil and skim. Then simmer about three hours. Add 
one teaspoonful of salt and a cup or more of chopped 
celery. Simmer a half-hour longer. Strain and cool 
quickly. When thoroughly cold remove all the fat 
and clarify. 

To Clarify. — Bring the consomme to a boil, add 
the white and shell of one tgg (slightly beaten with 
a tablespoonful of water), boil about five minutes. 
Strain through two thicknesses of gauze or cheese- 
cloth. Reheat, and serve in a heated cup with croutons 
or sippets. 

Cold Consomme or Consomme-Jelly. 

Follow preceding recipe, serving it cold, when it 
will be a jelly. Cut into blocks and serve in a cup or 
on a lettuce-leaf. 

Consomme with Egg. 

Poach a whole tgg or just the yolk (as desired) 
in a bowl of hot consomme and serve immediately. 

Consomme Royal. 

Make Egg Croutons, place them in a heated bowl 
and pour over hot consomme. Serve immediately. 

Bouillon. 

Follow recipe for beef-broth or old-fashioned beef- 
tea. Just before serving bring it to a boil, and clarify 
with the white of ^gg as directed under Consomme. 



6o HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Egg Croutons I. 
One egg. 

One tablespoonful of white stock. 
One tablespoonful of milk. 
One-eighth level teaspoonful of salt. 

Beat the egg until light, add the stock, milk, and 
salt. Pour into a smooth mould or bowl. Stand it 
in a large saucepan partly filled with hot water. Cover 
the pan closely, and cook slowly on top of the stove 
until a firm custard is formed. When cold, cut into 
small blocks or fancy shapes. Place them in the soup- 
bowls and pour over the hot soup. 

Egg Croutons II. 

Add a small pinch of salt to the white of one egg, 
whip it to a stiff froth, then drop by spoonfuls on hot 
water, cover the pan closely, and let them steam slowly 
one minute. Float on the soup and serve. These may 
also be cooked on top of the soup. 

Chicken Croutons. 

Follow recipe for Egg Croutons L, adding with the 
stock one tablespoonful of finely chopped white meat 
of a cooked chicken. Serve as directed above with 
chicken soup. 

Stocks. 

Stocks are the foundation of many soups and sauces 
and should always be on hand. They are easily 
made, and will keep in a cold place at least three or 
four days. 

White Stocks are made from chicken, veal, or both. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 6i 

Brown Stocks are made from beef, mutton, or both. 

The stocks must be carefully seasoned, and are 
best made the day before they are used, as then every 
particle of fat will come to the top and can be easily 
removed. 

When wanted for immediate use, strain through 
two thicknesses of gauze or cheese-cloth (that have 
been wrung out in cold water). This will retain some 
of the fat, and if any remains, skim it off with pieces 
of stale bread or tissue-paper (unsized paper may 
also be used). 

Chicken Stock I. 

Select a full-grown chicken. Singe, wash, and draw 
it. (Remove the meat from off the breast and put it 
aside for other dishes.) Disjoint it, remove the rest 
of the meat in small pieces from the bones. Crack 
the bones and place all in a soup-kettle. Cover with 
three quarts of cold water, simmer gently about three 
hours, or until the liquid is reduced to one and one- 
half quarts. iVdd one teaspoonful of salt, a pepper- 
corn, one-fourth teaspoonful of celery-seed or a cup 
of chopped tops of celery, a sprig of parsley, and a 
small onion cut into slices. Then simmer a half-hour 
longer. Remove from the fire, strain, and cool 
quickly. When perfectly cold remove the fat from 
the top and it is ready to use in making soup, sauce, 
etc. 

This will now keep in a cold place for several days 
at least. 

Chicken Stock II. (from Cooked Chicken). 

Crack all the bones of a cooked chicken and add to 
them any scraps of meat, the neck, etc. Cover well 



62 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

with cold water, bring to a boil, and simmer until 
reduced one-half. Then season, flavor, and finish as 
directed in preceding recipe. 

Chicken Stock III. (from Boiled Chicken). 

See directions under Boiled Chicken, page 115. 

White Stock I. (with Veal). 

One knuckle of veal. 

Two and one-half quarts of cold water. 

One-half of a young carrot. 

One pepper-corn. 

One small onion. 

Three-fourths teaspoonful of salt. 

A stalk of celery. 

A sprig of parsley. 

Have the bones cracked, and place bones and meat 
in a soup-kettle, cover with the cold water, bring to 
a boil, then simmer gently at least three hours, or 
until the liquid is reduced to one-half the original 
quantity. Then add the salt, flavorings, and vege- 
tables which have been cleaned and cut into small 
pieces. Simmer a half-hour longer, strain, and cool 
quickly. Remove the fat when perfectly cold and it 
is ready for use. 

Some of the flavoring or vegetables may be omitted 
if desired. 

White Stock II. 

Use part veal and part chicken, bones and meat 
as well. Finish as above directed. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 63 

Stock (from Beef). 

Two pounds of beef. 

A beef-bone or one-half knuckle of veal. 

A stalk of celery. 

A sprig of parsley. 

Two and one-half quarts of water. 

Three-fourths teaspoonful of salt. 

One small onion. 

Follow directions in preceding recipe. 

Quick Stock. 
Make a beef-broth, adding more flavorings. 

Cream Soups. 

These soups are nutritious, and when served with 
pulled bread or toast sometimes form an entire meal 
for a child or invalid. 

To be palatable, cream soups must be free from 
lumps and served hot in a heated bowl or cup. 

When fatty food is required, one or two tablespoon- 
fuls of cream may be added to any of the soups after 
they have been removed from the fire. 

If a more concentrated food is required the extra 
yolk of one or two eggs may be added, or the white 
of egg beaten to a stiff froth and carefully stirred 
in a moment or so before it is removed from the 
fire. 

Onion- juice gives zest to cream soups, but may be 
omitted in any of the following recipes. 

When making these soups it is always more prefer- 
able to use stock than water, as it adds to the flavor 
and less seasoning is required. 



64 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

There are several ways of thickening cream soups, 
according to the food required, — viz. : 

1. With Flour and Butter, — A very general and 
tasty method. 

2. With Cornstarch or Arrozvroot. — In this method 
the arrowroot or cornstarch is thoroughly cooked be- 
fore the milk is added. After the milk is added it is 
only brought to the pasteurizing point (165° F.) if 
boiled milk is objected to. Then the butter is not 
cooked at all, but added after the soup has been re- 
moved from the fire. 

J. Thickened with Yolks of Eggs. — This one is 
free from starch, and the milk can also be cooked 
below the boiling-point. 

4. Thickened zvith Irish Moss. — Also free from 
starch. 

These soups are improved if whisked with an egg- 
beater after the thickening has been added. It will 
make them lighter and more creamy or smoother. 
With such soups as rice, sago, or tapioca, if whisked 
until smooth they need not be pressed through a sieve. 

When serving croutons, pulled bread, etc., with 
soups always serve them on a separate plate. 

Oyster Soup, or Bisque of Oysters. 

One cup of white or cream sauce. 
Eight oysters. 

Drain and quickly wash the oysters with cold water. 
Chop or cut them fine with a silver knife. Put them 
in a saucepan with a half-cup of cold water, bring 
slowly to a boil, stirring frequently, then simmer five 
minutes. Make a cup of cream sauce and drain the 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 65 

oyster-broth into it. Season to taste with salt and 
serve very hot with toasted crackers. 

To vary the flavor, celery, an allspice, or a pinch 
of ground mace may be cooked with the oysters. 

The cream or white sauce may be thickened with 
butter and flour, cornstarch, or yolks of eggs. ( See 
page 1 57-) 

Clam Soup. 

Eight clams. 

One cup of cream sauce. 

The white or cream sauce may be thickened with 
flour, cornstarch, or yolks of eggs as desired. (See 
page 157.) 

Drain the clams and chop them fine. Return them 
to their liquor. Bring slowly to a boil, stirring fre- 
quently. Skim and simmer five minutes. 

Make a white or cream sauce. Strain the liquor of 
the clams into the sauce. 

A teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley and one 
potato cut into dice and boiled until tender may be 
added to the sauce before adding the clam- juice. 
Serve with toasted crackers. 

Chicken Panada. 

One-half cup of cooked chicken meat. 
One-half pint of chicken stock or water. 
One-fourth cup of soft bread-crumbs. 
A pinch of salt. 

Cover the crumbs with milk, and while they are 
soaking chop cold cooked chicken (preferably white 
meat) very fine or run it through a meat-grinder. 

5 



66 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Press the bread through a coarse strainer. Put the 
chicken, crumbs, and stock in a saucepan and stir 
until it slowly comes to a boil. Serve in a heated bowl. 

A small piece of butter, or a teaspoonful of cream, 
may be added at serving time, or the lightly beaten 
yolk of an egg may be added just before it is re- 
moved from the fire. 

If water is used instead of stock, add a few drops 
of onion- juice, a few celery-tops, and a small pinch 
of ground mace. 

Chicken Puree I. 

One-half cup of chicken meat (breast). 

One tablespoonful of arrowroot or cornstarch 

A few seeds of celery or celery-tops. 

One teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. 

One cup of cold water. 

One-half teaspoonful of salt. 

Yolk of one egg. 

One cup of cold milk. 

Chop the chicken very fine or run it through a 
meat-grinder. Cover it with the cold water, add the 
celery, and bring slowly to a boil, then simmer fifteen 
minutes. Press through a fine sieve; return it to the 
fire, and when boiling add the arrowroot or corn- 
starch, which has been moistened with a little cold 
water. Stir until it thickens, add the milk and bring 
to pasteurizing point (165° F.). Season to taste, add 
the yolk (beaten until light) and the parsley and stir 
for a few minutes. Serve in a heated bowl with 
croutons or pulled bread. 

A small piece of butter or a tablespoonful of cream 
may be added when serving. 



SICK AXD COX^^\LESCEXT. 67 

Chicken Puree II. 

Follow preceding recipe, omitting the cornstarch or 
arrowroot and adding the yolks of three eggs instead 
of the one yolk. 

Wine Soup. 

One-half a thin slice of bread. 

One cup of boiling water. 

Yolk of one egg. 

One tablespoonful of milk or cream. 

One tablespoonful of wine. 

Sugar to taste. 

Thoroughly toast the bread, break it into small 
pieces, cover with the boiling water, and cook slowly 
five or ten minutes. Beat the yolk and milk together 
until light, add to the soup, and stir for several min- 
utes (keep it below the boiling-point), remove from 
the fire, add the wine and a teaspoonful of granulated 
sugar. Serve immediately in a heated bowl. 

Cream of Celery Soup I. (Flour thickening). 

One head or stalk of celery. 

One and a half cups of stock or water. 

One-half teaspoonful of salt. 

One cup of milk. 

One tablespoonful of butter. 

One tablespoonful of flour. 

Wash the celery and cut it into small blocks. Cover 
it with cold stock or water, bring slowly to a boil, 
then simmer a half-hour or until tender. Press all 
but the stringy fibre through a sieve. (This should 



68 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

now measure one cup; if not, add stock or water.) 
Reheat and season. 

]\Iake a cream sauce by rubbing the flour and butter 
together in a saucepan until smooth, add the milk, 
and stir over the fire in all directions till it boils. Add 
the celery stock, mix well, and it is ready to serve. 

Cream of Celery Soup H. (thickened with Corn- 
starch or Arrowroot). 

One head or stalk of celery. 

One tablespoonful of cream. 

Yolk of an egg. 

One cup of milk. 

One and a half cups of stock or water. 

One-half teaspoonful of salt. 

One level tablespoonful of cornstarch or arrowroot. 

Prepare and cook the celery as directed in pre- 
ceding recipe. Press through a sieve and reheat. 

Moisten the cornstarch with a little cold water, add 
to the soup, stir until it thickens. Beat the yolk until 
light, add the milk, and pour both into the soup. Stir 
or beat with an egg-whip for several minutes, but 
keep it below the boiling-point or it will have a curdled 
appearance. 

Serve immediately in a heated bowl, and add cream 
or a small piece of butter ; serve also croutons or some 
form of toasted bread. 

Cream of Celery Soup III. (thickened with Yolks 
of Eggs and free from Starch). 

One head or stalk of celery. 

One and a half cups of stock or cold water. 



SICK AXD COXVALESCEXT. 69 

One cup of milk (cold). 
Yolks of two or three eggs. 
One-half teaspoonful of salt. 

Follow the preceding recipe, omitting the cornstarch 
or arrowroot, and use the yolks of two or three eggs 
instead of one yolk. Serve as above directed. 



Cream of Celery Soup IV. (free from Starch and 
thickened with Irish Moss). 

One head or stalk of celery. 

One and a half cups of stock or water. 

One cup of milk. 

One-eighth cup of Irish moss. 

Yolk of one tgg. 

Salt to taste. 

Wash the celery and cut it into small pieces. Cover 
it with the cold stock or water, bring slowly to a boil, 
then simmer a half-hour or until tender. Press all 
but the stringy fibre through a sieve. (This should 
now measure one cup; if not, add stock or w^ater.) 
While the celery is simmering prepare the moss as 
follows : Soak it in lukewarm water for ten minutes, 
then wash each piece thoroughly in cold water, drain, 
and soak it in the milk for a half-hour. Then stir 
and slowly heat until the milk is steaming hot, then 
simmer ten minutes. 

Strain through a fine sieve, pressing through as 
much of the moss as possible. 

Add the celery stock, reheat, season to taste, and 
add the lightly beaten yolk of egg. Cook a few min- 



70 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

utes (below boiling-point or the egg will have a 
curdled appearance). 

Serve hot and in a heated bowl. 

Cream of tomato, lettuce, spinach, asparagus, cress, 
onion, chicken, oyster, and clam soups may also be 
thickened with Irish moss as above directed, substi- 
tuting any of the above for celery. 



Puree of Corn, or Cream of Corn Soup. 

Follow the 'directions for making Cream of Celery 
Soup (I., n., or HI.), substituting one cup of fresh 
corn (grated from the cob) for the one head or stalk 
of celery. (One large ear will make this quantity.) 

The cobs can be broken and added to the corn and 
water while cooking. This will add to the flavor. 

Puree of Pea, or Pea Soup. 

Substitute one cup of fresh green peas for the one 
head or stalk of celery, then follow directions for 
making and serving Cream of Celery Soup. 

The fresh pods can be washed and covered with 
cold water, brought to a boil, and simmered fifteen 
minutes. Drain and use one and one-half cups of 
this water instead of stock or plain water for cooking 
the peas. This will add to the flavor. 

Lima Bean Soup. 

Follow directions for making and serving Cream 
of Celery Soup, substituting one cup of fresh Lima 
beans for the head or stalk of celery. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 71 

Cream of Tomato, or Mock Bisque I. 

One cup of milk. 

One level teaspoonful of salt. 

A dash of pepper. 

Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. 

One level tablespoonful of butter. 

One cup of stewed and strained tomatoes. 

Select and wash ripe tomatoes, cut them into very 
small pieces. Put in a saucepan over the fire and 
cook quickly until soft (about five minutes). Rub 
through a sieve. 

Rub the butter and flour together in a saucepan; 
when smooth add the milk. Stir over the fire in all 
directions until it comes to a boil. Bring the tomatoes 
to a boil, add the salt and pepper. When both are 
boiling hot quickly pour the tomatoes into the milk. 
Stir, and serve immediately. A few drops of onion- 
juice may be added if desired. 

If canned tomatoes are used : Stew as quickly as 
possible and add one-eighth teaspoonful of baking 
soda — just before straining — to neutralize the acid. 

Cream of Tomato II. (Irish Moss thickening). 

Prepare the Irish moss as directed under Cream of 
Celery Soup IV., and add one cup of stewed and 
strained tomatoes instead of the cup of celery stock. 

Spinach Soup I. 

One quart of spinach. 

One cup of milk. 

One level teaspoonful of salt. 

One-half tablespoonful of butter. 



^2 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

One cup of cold water or stock. 

One tablespoonful of flour. 

One teaspoonful of cream if desired. 

Pick the leaves from a quart of spinach. Wash 
through several cold waters, shaking up and down 
while in the water to free it from sand, etc. Put it 
in a saucepan with the cold stock or water, bring to 
a boil, then simmer until tender (five to ten minutes). 
Press all through a fine sieve. If this does not meas- 
ure one cup, add more water or stock. 

Return to the fire and season. 

Make a cream sauce by rubbing the flour and butter 
together in a saucepan until smooth, add the milk, 
and stir over the fire in all directions until it boils. 
Add the spinach stock, mix well, and serve with crou- 
tons or sippets. 

The yolk of an ^^g may be lightly beaten and added 
a few minutes before removing the soup from the fire, 
also the cream. 



Spinach Soup II. (thickened with Arrowroot or 
Cornstarch and the Milk heated below the 
Boiling-Point). 

One quart of spinach. 
One cup of stock or water. 
One cup of milk. 
One level teaspoonful of salt. 
Yolk of an ^^^. 

One level tablespoonful of cornstarch or arrowroot. 
A small piece of butter or one tablespoonful of 
cream. 



SICK AXD CONVALESCENT. 73 

Prepare and cook the spinach as directed in pre- 
ceding recipe, press all through a sieve and reheat. 

^loisten the cornstarch or arrowroot with a little 
cold water, add to the soup and stir until it thickens. 
Beat the yolk until light, add the milk, and pour both 
into the soup. Stir or beat with an egg-whip for 
several minutes, but keep it below the boiling-point 
or it will have a curdled appearance. 

Serve immediately in a heated bowl, and add cream 
or a small piece of butter. Serve also croutons or 
some form of toasted bread. 

Cream of Spinach Soup III. (thickened with 
Yolks of Eggs and free from Starch). 
Follow the preceding recipe, omitting the corn- 
starch or arrowroot, and use the yolks of three eggs 
instead of one yolk. Serve as above directed. 

Cream of Lettuce Soup. 
Substitute a head of lettuce for the quart of spinach 
and follow directions for Cream of Spinach Soup. 

Water-Cress Soup. 

Substitute a small bunch of young water-cress for 
one quart of spinach and follow directions for Cream 
of Spinach Soup. 

German Milk Soup. 
One tablespoonful of browned flour. 
Two cups of milk. 
One-half teaspoonful of salt. 
A few drops of onion- juice. 
Yolk of an egg. 

One tablespoonful of cream or a small piece of 
butter. 



74 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Put the flour in a smooth pan and shake over the 
fire or place in the oven until it becomes a golden 
brown. (If not watched it will burn.) 

Put the browned flour in a saucepan, gradually add 
the milk, stirring all the while. Bring to a boil, then 
simmer five minutes, add the onion- juice, salt, and 
lightly beaten yolk of egg. Cook a moment or so 
below boiling-point. Remove from the fire, add the 
cream or butter, and serve immediately. 



Cream of Asparagus Soup I. 

Twelve stalks of asparagus. 
One cup of stock or water. 
One cup of milk. 
One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 
One tablespoonful of flour. 
One-half tablespoonful of butter. 

Wash and scrape the asparagus. Tie it in a bundle. 
Put two quarts of boiling water in a saucepan, add 
two teaspoonfuls of salt. When boiling add the as- 
paragus, bring again to a boil, then simmer until 
tender. Drain, remove the tips and put them to one 
side. Cut the remainder into small pieces, add the 
cup of stock or fresh water. Simmer about fifteen 
minutes, press all but the stringy fibre through a sieve, 
add salt, and reheat. 

Make a cream sauce by rubbing the flour and butter 
together in a saucepan until smooth, add the milk, and 
stir over the fire in all directions until it boils. Add 
the asparagus stock and tips, mix well, serve hot with 
croutons or toast. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 75 

The yolk of an egg may be lightly beaten and 
added a few moments before removing the soup from 
the fire. 



Asparagus Soup II. (thickened with Arrowroot or 
Cornstarch and the Milk heated below the 
Boiling-Point). 

Twelve stalks of asparagus. 

One cup of stock or water. 

One level tablespoonful of cornstarch or arrowroot. 

A small piece of butter or tablespoonful of cream. 

Yolk of one egg. 

One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 

One cup of milk. 

Prepare and cook the asparagus as directed in pre- 
ceding recipe. Press all through a sieve and reheat. 

Moisten the cornstarch or arrowroot with a little 
cold water, add to the hot soup, and stir until it 
thickens. Beat the yolk until light, add the milk, and 
pour both into the soup. Stir or beat with an egg- 
whip for several minutes, but keep it below the boil- 
ing-point or it will have a curdled appearance. 

Serve immediately in a heated bowl, and add cream 
or a small piece of butter. Serve croutons or some 
other form of toasted bread. 

Cream of Asparagus Soup III. (thickened with 
Yolks of Eggs and free from Starch). 

Follow the preceding recipe, omitting the cornstarch 
or arrowroot, and use the yolks of two or three eggs 
instead of the one yolk. Serve as above directed. 



^6 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Oatmeal Soup. 

One-half cup of cooked porridge. 

One-half cup of stock or water. 

One-fourth teaspoonful of onion- juice. 

One-half cup of milk. 

One-eighth teaspoonful of salt. 

Yolk of one t.^^. 

A chopped celery-top or a few celery-seeds. 

Cook the porridge, celery, and water slowly for 
fifteen minutes, add the milk, rub all through a sieve, 
reheat, add salt, a dash of pepper, onion-juice, and 
yolk of ^^^ well beaten with a teaspoonful of milk. 
(It must not boil after the q.%^ is added.) One-half 
teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley may also be 
added and the well-beaten white of one ^^^. (Espe- 
cially adapted for cold weather.) 

Cream of Rice Soup. 

One tablespoonful of rice. 

One and one-half cups of chicken stock or water. 
One-fourth teaspoonful of onion-juice. 
One cup of milk. 
One-half level teaspoonful of salt. 
A piece of celery or one-eighth teaspoonful of 
celery-seed. 

Yolk of one ^g^. 

Put the rice and water in a double boiler and cook 
until very soft. Press all through a sieve, return it 
to the double boiler and add the milk, cook fifteen 
minutes longer, stirring often. Add the salt and yolk 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. -j-j 

of egg. Stir a few minutes or whisk with an egg- 
beater, and do not allow it to again boil. 

If onion flavor is desired, add it with the ^^^. If 
celery is desired, add it with the rice. 

One-half teaspoonful of butter or one teaspoonful 
of cream may be added when served. 

One teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley may also 
be added. 

Cream of Chicken Soup (with Rice). 

Follow directions for Cream of Rice Soup, using a 
strong chicken stock. 

Cream of Sago Soup. 

Soak a tablespoonful of sago in water for a half- 
hour or more. Follow directions for Cream of Rice 
Soup, substituting the sago for the tablespoonful of 
rice. 

Also the yolks of two or three eggs may be added 
instead of the yolk of one, if desired. 

Cream of Tapioca Soup. 

Soak a tablespoonful of pearl tapioca in cold water 
for several hours, or overnight. Follow directions 
for Cream of Rice Soup, substituting the soaked 
tapioca for the rice. 

If granulated tapioca is used no soaking will be 
necessary. 

Chicken Tapioca Soup. 

Follow directions for Cream of Tapioca Soup, 
using a strong chicken stock. 



78 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Puree of Chestnut. 

One cup of chestnuts. 
Two cups of stock or water. 
Yolk of an egg. 
One cup of milk. 

One-half level teaspoonful of salt. 
One teaspoonful of butter or one tablespoonful of 
cream. 

One teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. 

Shell and blanch the chestnuts. Cover with water 
or stock and cook until tender. Press through a sieve. 
Add the milk, reheat, stir or whisk with an egg-beater 
until it boils and is smooth and creamy. Add salt, 
parsley, and yolk of tgg lightly beaten. Stir a few 
moments longer, but do not let the soup boil or the 
egg will give the soup a curdled appearance. 

Puree of Peas, Beans, or Lentils. 

One-fourth cup of split peas, beans, or lentils. 
One pint of stock or water. 
One-half teaspoonful of onion-juice. 
One level teaspoonful of salt. 

Wash the peas, beans, or lentils, and cover them 
with plenty of cold water, soak overnight, or at least 
six hours. Drain, and wash again in cold water. 
Put in a double boiler and cover them with the pint 
of stock or water. Simmer for two hours, or until 
very tender. Press all through a sieve. If necessary, 
dilute with stock or water. Reheat, season, and add 
onion- juice. Serve very hot with croutons. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 79 

Cream of Chicken Soup I. 

One and one-half cups of chicken stock. 
One-half cup of milk. 
Yolk of one tgg. 

One tablespoonful of cornstarch or arrowroot. 
One-half teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. 
A small piece of butter or one tablespoonful of 
cream. 

Salt to taste. 

Pour the milk and chicken stock into a saucepan, 
bring to boiling, and stir in the cornstarch or arrow- 
root, which has been mixed with a little cold milk. 
Stir until it thickens, season, and add the yolk of Qgg 
lightly beaten. Cook a moment or so (below the 
boiling-point, or it will have a curdled appearance). 
Add the parsley and butter or cream, and serve im- 
mediately in heated bowls or cups with some form of 
toast. 

Cream of Chicken Soup II. (thickened with Yolks 
of Eggs and free from Starch). 

Follow preceding recipe, omitting the cornstarch 
or arrowroot, and using the yolks of three eggs in- 
stead of the one yolk. 

Milk or Onion Soup. 

One-half pint of stock. 
One-half pint of milk. 
One level tablespoonful of butter. 
Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. 
One teaspoonful of parsley. 
Yolk of one egg. 



8o HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

One teaspoonful of onion-juice. 
One level teaspoonful of salt. 
A dash of pepper. 

Rub the butter and flour together in a small sauce- 
pan. When smooth add the milk and stock, and stir 
in all directions over the fire, until it boils. Add the 
salt and onion-juice. Beat the yolk of egg until light, 
add to the soup, stirring all the while. Remove from 
the fire just before it reaches the boiling-point, and 
serve with croutons or pulled bread. 

To obtain the onion- juice, cut a slice from the end 
of a large onion. Give one rub on a grater, then 
press and turn the onion, and the juice will trickle 
down, and can be easily caught on a spoon. 



¥¥ 



GRUELS AND MUSHES. 

Gruels and mushes are more tasty when made with 
milk, but it is often advisable to use water or part of 
each. 

When boiled milk is objectionable they should 
either be made with all water or part of each, cook- 
ing the grain or flour, etc., thoroughly in water and 
then adding the milk and only bring it to the pas- 
teurizing point (165° F.). 

All gruels and mushes must be free from lumps 
and thoroughly cooked. Most preparations of grains 
should be cooked longer than is advised by the manu- 
facturer to be sure all the starch granules or cells have 
been ruptured. 



SICK AND COXVALESCEXT. 8i 

When more nutriment is desired eggs may be added, 
— viz., the white may be whipped to a froth and stirred 
in the gruel or mush just before it is removed from 
the fire, or the yolk may be beaten and added either 
with or without the white. 

Avoid making them too sweet, and when cane-sugar 
is not allowed serve the breakfast foods over fruit, 
such as a pared and sliced apple, or dates freed from 
their stones and skins. 

To vary the flavor of the gruels, cut raisins into 
small pieces, cook them with the gruel, and strain 
them out before serving. 

If not desired cold, they should always be served 
hot and in heated bowls or dishes. 

Indian-Meal Gruel I. 

Two tablespoonfuls of granulated white cornmeal. 
One or two tablespoonfuls of cream. 
One piece of loaf-sugar. 
One pint of boiling water. 
One-half teaspoonful of butter. 

Cover the cornmeal with cold water, stir a moment, 
then drain, and slowly add the boiling water, stirring 
all the while. Add a pinch of salt and cook in a 
double boiler an hour or more. 

Serve in a heated bowl with sugar, butter, and 
cream. 

The butter may be omitted and more cream added 
which has been slightly whipped. 

Indian-Meal Gruel II. (with Egg). 

Make a pint of gruel as directed in preceding 
recipe; just before removing it from the fire add the 



82 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

beaten yolk of one or two eggs, then stir in the well- 
beaten white or whites. Cook a moment, stirring all 
the while, and serve as above directed. 
If desired, the yolk may be omitted. 

Cracker Gruel I. 

Four tablespoonfuls of cracker-crumbs. 
One cup of cold water. 
One cup of cold milk. 
A pinch of salt. 

Select milk-crackers, and toast them or not as de- 
sired. Roll into crumbs and moisten them with the 
cold water. Stir until it boils for several minutes. 
Add the salt and cold milk and bring to the scalding- 
point. 

Serve with a small piece of butter and a teaspoon- 
ful of cream in a heated bowl. A grating of nutmeg 
may also be used if desired. 

Cracker Gruel II. (with Egg). 

See directions for Indian-Meal Gruel with Egg, 
substituting cracker gruel for the Indian meal. 

Egg Gruel. 

One egg. 

One cup of milk. 

One teaspoonful of arrowroot. 

A few grains of salt. 

Separate the egg; beat the wdiite to a froth, add 
the yolk, and beat again. 

Scald the milk, moisten the arrowroot with a little 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 83 

cold milk, add to the hot milk, and stir until it 
thickens. Add salt and beat it over the egg. If too 
cool to serve, reheat carefully or the egg will sepa- 
rate. A grating of nutmeg may be used. 

Arrowroot Gruel I. (with Water). 

One-half tablespoonful of arrowroot. 
One cup (one-half pint) of water. 
One or two tablespoonfuls of sherry wine (if a stim- 
ulant is ordered). 
Six large raisins. 
Two tablespoonfuls of cream. 

Cut the raisins into small pieces, remove seeds, add 
to the cold water and bring slowly to a boil, strain; 
moisten the arrowroot with a little cold water, stir 
into the hot water and cook until perfectly clear. Re- 
move from the fire, add the cream slightly whipped 
and a piece of loaf-sugar. Also the wine if used. 

A few gratings of the yellow rind of a lemon or 
nutmeg may be added to the water to vary the flavor 
of the gruel. 

Arrowroot Gruel II. (with Milk). 

One level tablespoonful of arrowroot. 
Two tablespoonfuls of cream. 
One-half cup of milk. 
Six large raisins. 
, One-half cup of water. , 

Cut the raisins into small pieces (remove seeds) 
and cover them with a half-cup of cold water, stir and 
bring slowly to a boil, strain. iMoisten the arrow- 
root with a little cold water, stir into the hot water 



84 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

and cook until perfectly clear. Add the milk cold 
and bring to the scalding-point. Serve hot with the 
cream plain or slightly whipped and a piece of loaf- 
sugar if desired sweetened. 

A grating of nutmeg may also be used. 

Arrowroot Gruel III. (with Egg). 

Make a cup of arrowroot gruel (with water or 
milk). Just before removing it from the fire add the 
beaten yolk of an egg and stir in the well-beaten white. 
Cook a moment, stirring all the while, and serve as 
above directed. 

Oatmeal Gruel. 

Three tablespoonfuls of oatmeal. 
One pint of boiling water. 
One-eighth teaspoonful of salt. 

Add salt and oatmeal to the boiling water and cook 
in a double boiler two hours or more; dilute with 
milk. Strain and serve with a little cream or well- 
beaten white of egg and a piece of sugar. 

If cooked oatmeal is used, dilute with water or milk 
to the desired consistency and cook in a double boiler 
thirty minutes. Then strain, and serve as above 
directed. 

Barley Gruel. 

One tablespoonful of barley flour. 
One-half teaspoonful of sugar. 
Three-fourths cup of boiling water. 
One-half cup of milk. 
A pinch of salt. 

Moisten the barley with a little cold water. Pour 
on the boiling water, stir, and boil ten minutes. 



SICK AXD COXVALESCENT. 85 

Strain, add milk and salt and just bring to boiling- 
point. Serve hot with sugar and a tablespoonful of 
cream. 

All water may be used instead of part milk. 

If desired, just before removing the gruel from the 
fire stir in the well-beaten w^hite of one Qgg. Serve 
as above directed. 

Flour Ball or Flour Gruel. 

Put one-half pint of flour in the centre of a square 
of cheese-cloth, tie into a tight ball, drop into a 
kettle of boiling water and boil continually five hours. 
Remove the cloth and peel off the moist outside cover- 
ing, grate the hard centre into a baking-pan lined with 
perfectly clean paper. Stand in a moderate oven until 
perfectly dry. Then cool and put into a covered glass 
jar. 

To make the gruel, moisten two teaspoonfuls of the 
flour in a little cold water and stir into one pint of 
boiling water. Cook slowly eight minutes and dilute 
with milk. 

Racahout des Arabes. 

One tablespoonful of racahout. 
One cup of boiling water. 
One cup of hot milk. 
A pinch of salt. 

Mix the racahout with a little cold water, add boil- 
ing water and salt, simmer ten minutes. Scald the 
milk, add to the gruel, strain, and serve. 

Racahout is composed principally of sugar, arrow- 
root, rice flour, and French chocolate. It is appetizing 
and nutritious. 



86 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Oatmeal for Breakfast. 

One pint of boiling water. 

One-half cup or four tablespoonfuls of oatmeal. 

One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 

Put the water in a double boiler, add the salt and 
oatmeal, mix well, then do not stir again. Cook con- 
tinually for at least two hours, and better, all day. 
Serve in a heated bowl with scalded milk. 

It is often advisable, especially for children, to press 
the hot oatmeal through a fine sieve just before 
serving, thus straining out all the hulls. 

Cornmeal Mush. 

One cup of milk or water. 
One-third cup of white cornmeal. 
One-eighth level teaspoonful of salt. 
One egg. 

Put the milk or water in a double boiler, add the 
salt, and when hot sprinkle in the cornmeal, stirring 
all the while, until it becomes a smooth mush. Cook 
one hour or more. At serving-time, beat the yolk 
until light, add to the mush, then stir in the well- 
beaten white. Cook a moment, and serve in a heated 
bowl with plain or whipped cream. 

If a white mush is desired, omit the yolk of egg. 

Farina Mush. 

One pint of water or milk. 
One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 
Four tablespoonfuls of farina. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 87 

Put the water or milk in the upper half of a double 
boiler, when hot add the salt and slowly sprinkle in 
the farina, stirring all the while. Then beat with an 
egg-whip several minutes to be sure it is smooth. 
Cook one hour. Serve with cream. 

If desired cold, pour it into cups or moulds while 
hot and turn out on a saucer at serving-time. 

Steamed Rice. 

One-half cup of rice. 
One-eighth teaspoonful of salt. 
One pint of boiling water. 

Wash the rice thoroughly in cold water, drain, and 
put it in the upper half of a double boiler, with the 
salt and boiling water. Do not stir, and cook con- 
tinuously one hour. Serve in a heated bowl with plain 
or whipped cream. 

Half milk and half water may be used if desired. 

Flaked Rice. 

Pour one cup of boiling water in the top of a double 
boiler, add one-eighth level teaspoonful of salt. Stir 
in as much flaked rice as the water will absorb. Cook 
ten minutes without stirring. Serve hot with cream. 

Breakfast Foods with Fruit. 

Pare and slice apples, peaches, bananas, or chopped 
dates. Put a layer in the bottom of your porridge- 
bowl, pour over the hot mush or cereal. This gives 
a pleasant variety, and is also of value to accustom 
a patient to do without cane-sugar when desirable. 



88 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Hominy Grits. 

Two tablespoonfuls of hominy grits. 
One cup of water or milk. 
One-eighth teaspoonfiil of salt. 

Wash the hominy thoroughly in several cold waters, 
drain, and cover with fresh water; soak overnight, or 
at least several hours. Place in a double boiler, cover 
with a cup of boiling water or milk, add one-eighth 
teaspoonful of salt, and cook continuously for two 
hours. If the hominy gets too dry, add more hot 
water or milk. Serve with milk or cream, and sugar 
if desired. If whole hominy is used it must be soaked 
overnight and then cooked all day. 

Oatmeal-Jelly. 

One pint of boiling water. 

One-half cup or four tablespoonfuls of oatmeal. 

One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 

Put the water in a double boiler, add the salt and 
oatmeal. Cook continuously two hours or longer. 
While hot strain through a very fine sieve or cheese- 
cloth. Serve cold, or reheat and add milk if desired. 

Rice-Jelly. 

One-half cup of rice. 
Three cups of boiling water. 
One-eighth teaspoonful of salt. 

Wash the rice thoroughly in cold water, drain, and 
place it in the upper half of a double boiler with the 
salt and boiling water. Cook continuously for one 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 89 

hour. Press through a fine strainer. Serve cold with 
cream. 

Or, dilute with milk for infants and serve warm. 



Barley-Jelly. 

Three tablespoonfuls of pearl barley. 

One quart of water. 

One-eighth level teaspoonful of salt. 

Soak the barley overnight, or at least several hours. 
Drain and place in a double boiler, cover with a quart 
of fresh water and cook several hours. This should 
now measure one pint. Strain through tw^o thick- 
nesses of cheese-cloth or gauze. When cold it will 
form a jelly. Serve cold with cream. 

For Infants. — See page 28. 

Banana Mush. 
One banana. 
Two tablespoonfuls of cold milk. 

Slice the banana or mash it with a silver fork ; add 
the milk. Cook in a saucepan until very soft, stirring 
often. Serve hot with or without cream. 

Banana Gruel. 

One banana. 

Three-fourths cup of cold milk. 

Slice the banana or mash it with a silver fork ; add 
the milk. Cook slowly until the banana is very soft. 
Stir often. Serve hot. 



¥¥ 



90 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

EGGS. 

Eggs are highly nutritious, but to be easy of diges- 
tion must be cooked at a low temperature (130° 
to 160° F.), or the white will be rendered tough in- 
stead of soft and creamy. Therefore the so-called 
" soft-boiled tgg'' must not be boiled at all. A ther- 
mometer -^ is necessary when '' soft cooking" an egg 
(exact method). It is well worth the extra trouble, 
as the eggs will have a delicious flavor and will not 
be overdone or half cooked, as often happens. 

The length of time an egg is cooked is not of as 
much importance as the degrees of heat used. 

Whenever the white of egg is whipped to a froth 
it is more easy of digestion, since the digestive fluids 
may act more readily upon it. Hence the value in the 
steamed or frothed egg. 

To be palatable, unless served raw, eggs must be 
eaten while hot. Previous to cooking, the bowl or 
dish in which they will be served should be heated. 
Have everything in readiness that they may be served 
immediately. 

To keep an egg fresh after it has been removed 
from its shell, place the yolk (whole) in a cup of cold 
water and then in a cold place. It will now keep 
nicely for twenty- four hours or more. The white 
should be placed in a cup or jar, tightly covered or 
sealed, and kept in a cold place. 

The steamed, soft cooked, poached, and scrambled 
(I.) eggs are all lightly cooked, palatable, and con- 
tain no cooked butter. 

^^ Cooking fliermometers i.uitable for this purpose may be 
purchased for thirty cents. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 91 

Golden-Rod, Japanese, and Baked Eggs may each 
be made with Cream Sauce I. or 11. (see page 157) 
according to the requirements of the patient. 

Steamed or Frothed Egg I. 

One egg. 

A few grains of salt. 

A small piece of butter. 

Have a little water boiling in a large covered sauce- 
pan. Separate the egg, beat the white to a stiff froth 
and heap it into an egg-cup or dainty bowl. Make 
a little well in the centre, drop in the 3'olk (whole). 
Place the bowl in the saucepan, cover the pan closely. 
Remove all from the fire and let stand five minutes. 
Remove the egg from the water and serve immedi- 
ately with salt and butter. 

Steamed or Frothed Egg II. 

Have a little water boiling in a large covered sauce- 
pan. Separate the egg, beat the white to a stiff froth, 
beat the yolk lightly, add it to the well-beaten white, 
mixing thoroughly. Heap into an egg-cup or dainty 
bowl. Place the bowl in the saucepan and cover the 
pan closely. Remove all from the fire and let stand 
five minutes. Serve immediately with salt and butter. 

By way of variety a few toast-crumbs may be 
dusted over the top of the egg. 

Poached Egg. 

Select a fresh egg. First toast a slice of bread and 
have some water boiling in a shallow pan. Break the 
egg into a saucer, take the pan off the stove and 



92 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

quickly slide in the egg. Finish cooking below the 
boiling-point, basting the yolk continually until the 
white is of a creamy consistency. Remove from the 
water with a slice or large spoon. Serve on the toast 
with a few grains of salt and a small piece of butter. 

Soft-Cooked Eggs I. 

Place one or two eggs -- in a measure or small sauce- 
pan, pour over them a pint of boiling water. Cover 
closely, and let them stand off the fire for from eight to 
ten minutes (according to the size of the eggs). Re- 
move the eggs from the water and serve in a heated 
cup with a few grains of salt and a small piece of 
butter. 

If the eggs are very cold or the room in which they 
are cooked, increase the quantity of boiling water or 
pour hot water over the eggs; then drain immedi- 
ately and pour over the required quantity of boiling 
water. 

Soft-Cooked Eggs II. (Exact Method.) 

Well cover your egg or eggs with cold water. Heat 
the water to a temperature of i6o° F. and keep it 
there seven minutes ; remove from the fire and serve 
in a heated cup with a few grains of salt and a small 
piece of butter. 

Scrambled Eggs I. 

Break one or more eggs into a bowl and add a 
tablespoonful of lukewarm water for each egg. Beat 

^^ If three or four eggs are desired, allow a quart of boiling 
water. When cooking a large number of eggs, lessen the 
proportion of water. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 93 

with a fork until well mixed but not frothy. Cook 
in a small smooth saucepan over hot water (without 
butter). Stir slowly until they are of a jelly-like 
consistency. Serve on a round of toast or hot plate. 
Add salt and a small piece of butter. 

They may also be served in a half of a toasted 
popover. To add zest or flavor substitute stock for 
the water. 

Scrambled Eggs II. 

Follow above directions, but cook the eggs in a 
buttered omelet-pan, stirring until of a jelly-like con- 
sistency. 

Hard Boiled Yolks of Eggs. 

Have some water boiling in a saucepan, drop in 
the yolks whole and then simmer for fifteen minutes ; 
drain very dry. 

Egg Sandwich. 

One thin slice of bread. 
Yolk of one egg. 
One-half teaspoonful of butter. 
Salt to taste. 

Hard boil the yolk as in preceding recipe. If de- 
sired, toast the bread. Work the butter until soft ; 
spread the bread or toast. Press the yolk through a 
sieve; heap on the bread. Season and serve plain 
or on a lettuce-leaf. If desired, another thin slice of 
bread or toast may be buttered and placed on top of 
the egg, making a double sandwich. 



94 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Japanese Eggs. 

One-half cup of freshly boiled rice. 
One level tablespoonful of flour. 
One level tablespoonful of butter. 
Yolks of two eggs. 
One-half cup of milk. 
A grain of salt. 

Hard boil the yolks ; press through a sieve. Make 
a cream sauce by rubbing flour and butter together 
in a saucepan until smooth, adding the milk cold. 
Then take to the fire and stir in all directions until it 
boils. Remove from the fire and add a half-teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Pour the sauce over the boiled rice, heap 
over the egg, and reheat in a quick oven for two 
minutes. 

Or, have a little boiling water in a saucepan, in 
which place a block of wood or up-ended bowl to 
hold the saucer with the egg out of the water. Cover 
the saucepan closely and steam rather slowly several 
minutes. This may be garnished with parsley. 

The yolks of eggs may also be cut into halves and 
arranged on the mound of rice, and finished as directed 
above. 

Golden-Rod Eggs. 

Hard boil the yolks of two eggs (by dropping them 
into boiling v/ater and letting them simmer for fif- 
teen minutes). Drain and press through a sieve. 
Toast two pieces of bread; make one-half cup of 
cream sauce (I. or 11. , see page 157) ; pour over the 
toast. Then heap on the yolks, season, and stand in 
a hot oven for two minutes to reheat, and serve imme- 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 95 

diately. They may be garnished with parsley or 
celery. 

Or, reheat by steaming as directed in preceding 
recipe. 

Baked Eggs. 

Make a half-cup of cream sauce (I. or II.) as di- 
rected on page 157. Beat the white of one tgg to a 
stiit froth, add the sauce, beating all the while. Put 
a layer of sauce in the bottom of an individual baking- 
dish or cup. Drop in the yolks of one or two eggs, 
cover with the sauce, and place in a pan partly filled 
with boiling water and bake in a moderate oven ten 
minutes, or cover the pan closely and steam slowly 
six minutes. 

By way of variety, dust the top with crumbs of toast 
before baking or steaming. Serve in the cups in 
which they were baked. 

Shirred Eggs. 

Follow directions for Steamed Eggs. Placing a 
tablespoonful of soft bread-crumbs or freshly made 
croutons in the bottom of the cup before adding the 

Plain Omelet. 

The omelet may be made of one, two, three, or four 
eggs, according to the size desired. 

Select a small omelet- or ordinary frying-pan. Rub 
a teaspoonful of salt over the pan with a piece of 
yellow paper until perfectly smooth. Then dust it out 
carefully. 

Break the Qgg or eggs into a bowl, adding a table- 
spoonful of lukewarm water for each. Beat with a 



96 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

fork until thoroughly mixed (but not frothy). Put 
a small piece of butter in the pan (just enough to 
well butter it). Take pan and eggs to the fire, and 
as soon as the pan is hot, but before the butter browns, 
turn in the mixture. Shake the pan over a moderate 
fire until the eggs begin to cook. Then with a limber 
knife lift the cooked egg, allowing the uncooked por- 
tion to run underneath, and so continue until it is 
lightly cooked. Remove from the fire, dust carefully 
with a few grains of salt. Fold and dish. Garnish 
with parsley or celery. 

To vary the flavor beef-juice or stock may be sub- 
stituted for the water when mixing the omelet. 

Parsley Omelet. 

Follow the directions for making a plain omelet, 
adding finely chopped parsley to the mixture before 
cooking. Allow one-half teaspoonful of parsley for 
each egg. 

Spanish Omelet. 

Add onion-juice to a plain omelet mixture before 
cooking in the proportion of three drops for each egg. 

Tomato Omelet. 

When possible select fresh tomatoes, wash, put them 
in a colander, and pour boiling water over them. Re- 
move the skins. Cut into halves (crosswise) and with 
a sharp knife remove all the seeds. Cut the tomatoes 
into pieces, put them in a saucepan, and cook quickly 
until tender (about five minutes). Season with salt 
and pepper, drain, and stand over hot water while you 
make a plain omelet. Before folding, put a spoonful 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 97 

of tomatoes on the part that will be the lower half. 
Fold and dish with the balance of the tomatoes around 
the omelet. 

If canned tomatoes are used, drain off the liquor, 
free the solid portions from the seeds, and then pro- 
ceed as above. 

Omelet with Rice. 

Follow directions for making a plain omelet, stir- 
ring plain boiled rice into the eggs before cooking 
them. 

Allow one teaspoonful of rice for each egg. 

If desired, a few drops of onion- juice may be added 
with the rice. 

Corn Omelet. 

Use boiled corn. Score each row of grains, and 
press out the centre of each with a fork or back of 
a knife. Make a plain omelet mixture, and for each 
egg add one tablespoonful of corn. Cook and serve 
the same as directed above. 

Bread Omelet. 

Allow one teaspoonful of rolled bread-crumbs for 
each egg. Soak the crumbs in cold water, stock, or 
milk for five minutes. Drain and add to a plain omelet 
mixture; cook and serve as above directed. 

Small pieces of toast or stale bread may be substi- 
tuted for the rolled bread-crumbs. 

A few drops of onion- juice may also be added with 
the crumbs if the flavor is desired. 

Omelet with Chicken. 

Follow directions for making a plain omelet. Be- 
fore cooking mix with the eggs the cold cooked white 

7 



98 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

meat of chicken, finely chopped, allowing one table- 
spoonful of meat for each egg. 

Or, the meat may be placed on the omelet just be- 
fore it is folded. Garnish with parsley or celery. 

Omelet with Tongue. 

Make the same as Omelet with Chicken, but sub- 
stitute cold boiled tongue for the chicken. 

Delicious omelets are also made with oysters, 
creamed or in brown sauce, see page 107; with 
chicken, creamed or in a brown sauce, see page 116; 
and with mushrooms, see page 134. 

Fruit Omelet. 

Make a plain omelet and fold in stewed fruit or 
fresh ripe fruit (that has been slightly sugared), such 
as sliced peaches or stoned cherries. Dust the top 
lightly with sugar and serve hot. 

Maraschino cherries, cut or chopped fine, can also 
be folded in a plain omelet when there is no objection 
to a cordial being used. 

Omelet with Jelly. 

Just before folding a plain omelet spread the upper 
half with jelly. Currant, grape, or crab-apple are 
desirable. 

SWEEETBREADS. 

Sweetbreads are the pancreatic and thymus glands 
of the calf, and are only desirable for food so long as 
the calf is fed on milk. After that they change their 
nature. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 99 

They should be used as soon as possible, as they 
soon spoil. Unless used for puree, timbale, or raw, 
parboil them, and they will then keep twenty- four 
hours longer. 

In cutting sweetbreads a silver knife and fork must 
always be used. 

Sweetbreads Parboiled. 

Select a fresh pair of calf's sweetbreads, wash them 
well, trim off the fat, and soak them in cold water five 
minutes. 

Have enough water boiling in a saucepan to about 
cover the sweetbreads. Drop them in, bring again to 
a boil, then simmer fifteen or twenty minutes. Add 
about a level teaspoonful of salt a few minutes before 
removing them from the fire. Drain and save the 
liquor to be used as stock for sauces, etc. 

Put the sweetbreads into cold water for a few min- 
utes to cool, then remove all the pipes and membrane 
with a silver knife. 

Unless used immediately put them in a cold place. 
They will now keep twenty- four hours. 

Broiled Sweetbreads. 

Parboil as directed above. Then (with a silver 
knife) cut each sweetbread into halves lengthwise. 
Broil lightly and baste with a little of the water in 
which they were cooked. Remove from the fire, sea- 
son, and spread with little pieces of butter. Serve on 
toast and garnish with parsley. 

The toast may be softened with the heated sweet- 
bread stock (referred to above) or a cream sauce. 



100 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Baked Sweetbreads. 

Parboil (as directed above) the round or heart 
sweetbread. Put in a baking-dish on a layer of pars- 
ley and celery. Cover the bottom of the pan with 
boiling sweetbread stock. Bake ten or fifteen minutes, 
basting several times. Spread with butter and serve 
with peas or a cream sauce. (See Creamed Sweet- 
breads for the sauce.) 

Creamed Sweetbreads. 

One sweetbread. 

One level tablespoonful of flour. 
One level tablespoonful of butter. 
One-fourth level teaspoonful of salt. 
One-fourth cup of milk. 

One-fourth cup of water in which the sweetbreads 
were cooked. 

Parboil the sweetbread as directed above and pick 
into pieces. Rub the butter and the flour together in 
a saucepan until smooth. Add the milk and water. 
Stir in every direction over the fire until it comes to 
a boil, add seasoning and the sweetbread. Reheat 
over hot water. Serve plain or on toast or in a toasted 
bread-box. (See page 49.) 

These may also be put into patty-cups or scallop- 
dishes, — the top dusted with bread-crumbs and placed 
in a hot oven for ten minutes. Remove and add a 
small piece of butter. 

Or, use Cream Sauce H. or HI. 

Sweetbreads a la Bechamel. 

Follow the recipe for Creamed Sweetbreads, add- 
ing the well-beaten yolk of an ^^g and one teaspoon- 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. loi 

ful of finely chopped parsley just before removing 
from the fire. 

Sweetbreads with Chicken. 

Follow the recipe for Creamed Sweetbreads, using 
one-half the quantity of sweetbreads and the same 
quantity of cooked white meat of chicken cut into 
small cubes. 

Sweetbread Panada. 

One-half cup of parboiled sweetbread. 
One-fourth cup of soft bread-crumbs. 
One cup of chicken stock. 
Salt to taste. 

Nearly cover the crumbs with milk and soak ten 
minutes. Cut the sweetbread into fine pieces, using 
a silver knife and fork. Press the crumbs through a 
sieve and add them to the sweetbread ; add the stock, 
and stir over the fire until it boils a few minutes ; add 
salt, and serve in a heated bowl. 

The yolk of an egg may be beaten and added just 
before it is removed from the fire. 

Sweetbread Puree I. 
One sweetbread. 
One cup of milk. 

One and one-fourth cups of cold water. 
One level tablespoonful of cornstarch or arrowroot. 
One teaspoonful of butter or one tablespoonful of 
cream. 

Salt to taste. 

Wash the sweetbread well, remove the membranes, 
etc. Soak in cold water ten minutes; drain. Cut 



I02 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

fine with a silver knife and fork. Cover with the cold 
water, bring slowly to a boil, then simmer about 
twenty minutes. Press through a fine sieve. Reheat, 
add the arrowroot or cornstarch, which has been 
moistened with a little cold water. Stir until it 
thickens, add salt (pepper if allowed) and milk. 
Bring to a temperature of about 165° F. Serve with 
croutons or pulled bread. Add the cream or butter 
broken into small pieces just before serving. 

A yolk of an egg may be beaten and added and one 
teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. 

If a stimulant is desired, add one tablespoonful of 
sherry wine just before eating. 

Sv^eetbread Puree II. (free from Starch and thick- 
ened with Yolks of Eggs). 

Follow preceding recipe, omitting the cornstarch or 
arrowroot, and after adding the milk, stir in the yolks 
of two or three eggs slightly beaten. Be careful it 
does not boil or the eggs will have a curdled appear- 
ance. Serve as above. 

Sweetbread Salad. 

Parboil as directed above, but simmer twenty-five 
or thirty minutes. Drop it into cold water, remove 
membranes, etc., and pull into small pieces with a silver 
fork. 

Serve on lettuce-leaves with mayonnaise or French 
salad dressing. 

Sweetbreads served Raw. 

Wash thoroughly, soak in cold water thirty minutes. 
Remove all membrane and fat. Reduce to a pulp with 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 103 

a silver knife on a china plate. Add an equal quantity 
of thick or whipped cream. Season with a little salt 
and pepper, also celery salt if desired. 

Serve on a very tender lettuce-leaf or a thin slice 
of toast buttered. 

Sweetbread Timbale. 

One sweetbread. 

One-half cup of soft white bread-crumbs. 

One-fourth cup of milk. 

Whites of two or three eggs. 

One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 

Wash the sweetbread thoroughly and soak in cold 
water fifteen minutes. Remove all membrane and fat. 
Reduce it to a pulp with a silver knife or fork on a 
china plate, or cut very fine. 

Moisten the crumbs with the milk and cook until 
a paste, stirring all the while. Remove from the fire, 
add one-half cup of the sweetbread, the salt, and stir 
in the well-beaten whites of the eggs. Partly fill but- 
tered tin moulds. Stand in a baking-pan partly filled 
with boiling water, and bake in a moderate oven fifteen 
minutes. 

Serve with a cream sauce or sauce bechamel. 



¥¥ 



OYSTERS. 

On account of their appetizing flavor oysters are 
usually relished by the sick. They are more easily 
digested when eaten raw, but in this way are often 



104 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

objected to, as the common method of fattening and 
keeping oysters is either at the mouths of rivers or 
in a tub or tank of water. Now, when typhoid or 
other pathogenic germs are in the water (which often 
occurs, especially in some large cities), there is a pos- 
sibility that they find their way to the oyster. There- 
fore, unless fresh salt-water oysters are obtained, it 
is far safer to cook them. 

Most of their nutriment is contained in their albu- 
minous juices, and must be cooked at a low tem- 
perature or they will become tough and unpalatable. 

The muscular part, commonly known as the eye of 
the oyster, is rather difficult to digest, so it is often 
advisable (for children and invalids) to serve the soft 
portions only, which contain the stomach and digestive 
fluids. 

It is necessary that oysters be in a fresh condi- 
tion, and should be used as soon after they are opened 
as possible. They are only in season from September 
to the last of April, and should not be used for food 
at any other time. 

To prepare oysters, run your finger between the 
gills to remove any chance pieces of shell, then place 
them in a strainer and pour over a pitcher of cold 
water. 

Always use a silver knife and fork when cutting 
oysters, as they contain some phosphorus. 



Oysters served Raw. 

Fresh salt-water oysters must be selected. Scrub 
the shells very clean; open and serve immediately on 
the half-shell. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 105 

Stewed Oysters I. 

Six or eight oysters. 

One cup of milk. 

A small piece of butter or one teaspoonful of cream. 

One tablespoonful of cracker-crumbs. 

A few grains of salt. 

Place the milk and cracker-crumbs in a saucepan 
and stir over the fire until it slowly reaches the boil- 
ing-point. Drain and quickly wash the oysters with 
cold water, drain again, turn them into a hot sauce- 
pan and shake them over the fire until the gills turn 
or curl. Strain the milk and cracker-crumbs through 
a fine sieve, add to the oysters, season to taste with 
salt; add the cream or butter, and serve immediately 
with toasted crackers. 

If desired, the flavor may be varied b}^ adding a 
pinch of mace, celery, whole allspice, or a pepper-corn 
to the cold milk. 

The yolk of an tgg may be lightly beaten and added 
just before it is removed from the fire. 

Stew^ed Oysters II. 

Heat a cup of milk, and stir in one teaspoonful of 
cornstarch or arrowroot that has been moistened with 
a little cold milk. Then follow preceding recipe, 
omitting the cracker-crumbs. 

Panned Oysters. 

One slice of bread. 
Six large oysters. 
A few grains of salt. 
A small piece of butter. 



io6 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Toast the bread. Drain and quickly wash the 
oysters in cold water. Heat a granite or aluminum 
saucepan, pour in the oysters and gently toss or shake 
over the fire, only until the gills turn or curl. Add the 
salt, pour the oysters over the toast, add the butter, 
and serve immediately. Garnish with parsley or 
celery. 

Broiled Oysters. 

Select large oysters in their shells, scrub them very 
clean. Place on a broiler with bowl-shaped side of 
shell down (so as to hold all thie juice). Cook over 
a quick fire until the shells open. Remove the upper 
half of the shell, season with salt and a little butter. 
Serve immediately on the half-shell. 

These may also be baked or roasted. 

Broiled on the Half-Shell. 

Select large oysters, have them opened, and keep 
the deep half-shell of each. Scrub the shells very 
clean and heat them. Drain the oysters and place one 
on each hot shell and then broil until the gills turn or 
curl. Season and serve immediately. 

These may also be cooked in a hot oven. 

Breaded Oysters on the Half-Shell. 

Prepare oysters and shells as directed in preceding 
recipe. When the oysters are washed and drained, 
dry and season both sides lightly with salt; beat an 
egg (or yolk only) with a tablespoonful of warm 
water; dip into it each oyster, then roll the oyster 
in fine toast-crumbs. Place an oyster on each heated 
shell, baste with one or two teaspoonfuls of boiling 
water, and bake in a hot oven five or eight minutes. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 107 

Add a small piece of butter and serve on the half- 
shell. Garnish with a thin slice of lemon and celery 
or parsley. 

Baked Oysters on Toast. 

Toast a round or neatly trimmed slice of bread. 
Strip, wash, and drain six large fat oysters, place them 
on the toast in a baking-pan. Pour in just enough 
boiling stock or water to keep the toast from sticking 
to the bottom of the pan. Bake in a hot oven until the 
gills turn (about five minutes). Serve immediately 
with salt and butter. 

Creamed Oysters. 
Twelve oysters. 
One-half cup of cream sauce, I.. II., or III. 

Strip, wash, and drain the oysters as above directed. 
Pour them into a heated granite or aluminum sauce- 
pan and shake or toss over the fire until the gills curl. 
Drain this time, saving the liquor. Pleasure and add 
to the liquor thus obtained sufficient milk to make one- 
half cup. Rub a level tablespoonful of flour and the 
same quantity of butter together in a saucepan until 
smooth, add the liquid; stir in all directions over 
the fire until it comes to a boil, add a quarter tea- 
spoonful of salt and the oysters. Reheat over hot 
water. Serve on toast or in a bread pate and garnish 
with celery or parsley. 

Fricassee of Oysters. 

Follow preceding recipe, and add the lightly beaten 
yolk of an tgg and one-half teaspoonful of finely 
chopped parsley a few minutes before removing the 



io8 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

oysters from the fire. Be careful it does not boil, or 
the eggs will have a curdled appearance. Serve as 
above. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Strip, wash, and drain six large, fat oysters. Cover 
the bottom of an individual baking-dish with three of 
them, dust lightly with salt, and sprinkle over them 
a layer of toast- or bread-crumbs. Make another layer 
of oysters, season, and repeat the layer of crumbs. 
Bake in a hot oven about ten minutes. Baste once 
with a little boiling water or oyster stock. Serve hot 
with a piece of butter on the top. 

These may also be baked in the deep half of a shell, 
allowing about three oysters for each. 

Oysters a la Newburg. 

Follow directions for Creamed Oysters, adding the 
beaten yolks of two eggs and one-half teaspoonful of 
finely chopped parsley when reheating the oysters. 
Remove from the fire and add one teaspoonful of 
sherry wine and serve on toast or in a heated dish. 

Devilled Oysters. 
Twelve oysters. 
One-half cup of milk. 

One teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. 
Yolk of one or two hard-boiled eggs. 
One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 
One tablespoonful of flour. 
One teaspoonful of butter. 

Strip, wash and drain the oysters, cut them into 
small pieces with a silver knife, this time saving the 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 109 

juice with the oysters. Rub the flour and butter to- 
gether in a small saucepan until smooth, add the milk, 
and stir in all directions over the fire until it boils. 
Press the yolks through a sieve, add the sauce, gradu- 
ally stirring all the while, add the parsley, salt, and 
oysters. Fill the mixture into the deep half of the 
oyster-shells or individual baking-dishes, dust the top 
with crumbs, and bake in a hot oven about ten minutes. 
If a hot oven is not obtainable, use toast-crumbs and 
steam ten minutes. 

Keybobbed or Club Oysters. 

Six large oysters. 

One teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. 

Two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped celery. 

One egg. 

Bread-crumbs. 

Salt to taste. 

Strip, wash, and drain the oysters. Beat the egg 
with a tablespoonful of lukewarm water. Dip each 
oyster first into the egg, then roll in bread-crumbs. 
Cover the bottom of an individual baking-dish with 
three oysters ; dust with half the parsley and make a 
layer of all the celery, dust lightly with salt. Make 
another layer of oysters, dust with parsley and salt. 
Baste with a little boiling water or stock, and bake 
in a quick oven about ten or fifteen minutes, or until 
a light brown. 

Stuffed Oysters. 

Eight oysters. 

Two tablespoonfuls of toast-crumbs. 

Two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped cooked 
chicken. 



no HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Yolk of one egg or one teaspoonful of cream sauce. 
Salt to taste. 

Select large oysters, and remove the hard part (com- 
monly called the eye). 

Mix the chicken, crumbs, Qgg or sauce, well to- 
gether, season lightly with salt. Then fill the space 
in each oyster with this mixture. Beat an egg with 
a tablespoonful of lukewarm water, dip each oyster 
first in egg and then in stale bread or toast-crumbs. 
Dip and roll again. Scrub and heat the deep half of 
the oyster-shells, place an oyster on each and bake in 
a hot oven five or eight minutes. Add a small piece 
of butter, and serve on the half-shell. Garnish with 
parsley or celery. 

These may also be cooked and served as Keybobbed 
Oysters instead of baked on the half-shell. 

Boiled Oysters I. 

Select large fat oysters, strip, wash and drain 
them. Have plenty of boiling water in a saucepan, 
drop in about five or six oysters at a time. Cook 
about one minute or less, but only until the gills curl. 
Immediately remove the oysters with a skimmer and 
drain. Place them in a heated dish, dust lightly with 
salt, and add a small piece of butter. Serve hot. 

Oysters in a Brown Sauce. 

First make one-half cup of brown sauce ; brown 
one level tablespoonful of flour in the oven or on top 
of the stove, being careful it does not burn. Remove 
from the fire and rub it with a teaspoonful of butter, 
in a small saucepan, until smooth. (Chop or cut 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. iii 

three oysters finely, add one-half cup of cold water, a 
few celery-seeds, an allspice, a pinch of ground mace. 
Bring slowly to a boil, stirring all the while; simmer 
five minutes and drain.) Add a half-cup of the stock 
thus obtained to the flour and butter; stir over the 
fire in all directions until it boils, add one-eighth tea- 
spoonful of salt and six or eight oysters (according 
to size) that have been washed and drained. Cook 
slowly, but only until the gills turn or curl. 

If desired, one teaspoonful of sherry wine may be 
added. 

Serve in a heated dish, over toast or with an omelet. 

Oyster Omelet. 

Cream some oysters or cook them in a brown sauce, 
keep them warm over hot water while you quickly 
make a plain omelet ; before folding, place several 
oysters on one-half. Dish and pour around the re- 
maining oysters and sauce. Garnish with parsley and 
serve immediately. 

Creamed Oysters in a Chafing-Dish. 

Twelve oysters. 
One-fourth cup of milk. 
One-half tablespoonful of flour. 
One-half teaspoonful of butter. 
wSalt to taste. 

Strip, wash and drain the oysters. Rub the flour 
and butter together in the chafing-dish until smooth, 
add the milk (light the lamp), and stir in all direc- 
tions until it boils. Add the oysters and cook slowly 
until their gills curl. Season. 



112 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Creamed Breaded Oysters. 

Twelve oysters. 

One-half cup of milk. 

One-fourth cup of soft bread-crumbs. 

One tablespoonful of flour. 

One tablespoonful of butter. 

One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 

Strip, wash and drain the oysters, cut them into 
small pieces with a silver knife, this time saving the 
juice with the oysters. 

Rub the flour and butter together in a small sauce- 
pan until smooth, add the milk, and stir in all direc- 
tions over the fire until it boils. Remove from the 
fire, add the salt, crumbs, oysters, and juice. Mix 
well. Fill the mixture into large oyster-shells or 
baking-dishes, dust with stale bread-crumbs, and cook 
in a moderate oven about ten minutes. Serve with 
a small piece of butter on the top and in the shells 
or baking-dishes. 

A few drops of onion- juice and a pinch of mace 
may be added if desired when adding the salt. 

¥¥ 

CHICKENS. 

Chickens should be penned several days before 
being killed, fed on grain and water, and the last day 
given water only. The crop and intestines will then 
be empty. It will not only be more pleasant to draw 
but they will keep longer and the meat will have a 
better flavor. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 113 

The chickens should have firm flesh and be dry 
picked. To judge the age, bend the lower part of 
the breastbone; if soft and pliable, the chicken is 
young. 

When purchasing it is obvious that a reliable dealer 
be selected. 

To draw, first singe it over a gas-burner or a table- 
spoonful of burning alcohol-^ (in a saucer). Paper 
may be used if twisted tightly and placed in a dish- 
pan; Hght it and stand to one side, turning the 
chicken over the flame until singed. Do it very 
quickly, that the outside of the chicken be not cooked 
at all. 

Then wash it with cold water. Cut off the head 
with a cleaver or large knife. With a sharp knife 
cut just the skin at the side of the leg- joint and over 
the top, bend back the foot, which will loosen the 
ligaments on top, remove these with a wooden skewer 
or dull-tined fork. Then carefully cut through the 
tough muscle until you come to another set of liga- 
ments; draw these out, then cut off the foot. Do 
the other leg in the same way. Remove the oil-sac. 
Cut the skin at the back of the neck and loosen the 
crop and windpipe. Cut off both. Make an incision 
at the end of the breastbone and with two fingers 
loosen all the intestines, pulling them out in one piece. 
With a sharp knife cut around the large intestine. 
Next, remove the lungs. Wipe the chicken inside and 
out with cold water. 



^ The burning alcohol and paper are dangerous unless very 
carefully managed, as they make a larger blaze than often 
expected. 

8 



114 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

One chicken may be utilized for many dishes, — ' 
viz., before cooking remove the meat from off the 
breast and use it for a puree and timbale, then use the 
dark meat and bones for making broth, jelly, or soup. 

The whole chicken may be boiled, remove the meat, 
crack the bone, and make stock as directed under 
Boiled Chicken, use the meat for sandwich, au su- 
preme, panada, devilled, etc. 

Spring Chicken Broiled. 

Select a young chicken. Singe it carefully, re- 
move the head and feet as directed above, and split 
the chicken down the back; remove the intestines, 
etc., and with a damp cloth wipe the chicken inside 
and out. 

Break the breastbone so that it will lay flat. Place 
it on a broiler with the inside next to the fire, broil 
slowly about three-quarters of an hour. Just before 
it is done turn it and brown the skin side. Dust with 
salt and spread with butter. Serve on a heated plate 
and garnish with celery or parsley. 

If broiled over a coal-fire, keep a plate turned over 
it all the time; but if a gas-stove is used, close the 
door of the broiling-oven. 

Baste it several times with boiling stock or slightly 
salted water. 

Spring Chicken Smothered. 

Prepare a chicken as above directed, lay it in a 
baking-pan, skin side up, just cover the bottom of the 
pan with boiling water, cover the pan closely, and run 
into a hot oven for twenty minutes, remove the cover, 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 115 

and finish cooking the chicken without it, basting fre- 
quently. Season with salt and add a little butter. 

A chicken may also be cooked in this manner on top 
of the stove if a hot oven or broiling-fire is not avail- 
able. 

Roast Chicken. 

Select a chicken about a year old. Singe, wash 
quickly with cold water, draw and truss. Place it 
in a baking-pan; put a teaspoonful of salt in one 
corner of the pan and just cover the bottom of the 
pan with boiling water. Run it into a hot oven. 
In five minutes baste, and again in ten minutes. Then 
reduce the heat and cook until tender, basting every 
fifteen minutes. If the water evaporates, add more. 
Serve hot or cold. If hot, serve with a brown or cream 
sauce. 

Boiled Chicken. 

Prepare a full-grown chicken as for roasting. Have 
some water boiling in a large saucepan. Put in the 
chicken, cover tightly, bring to boiling, and boil five 
minutes. Then simmer until tender. About a half- 
hour before removing it from the fire add a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one-half cup of chopped celery-tops or 
one-fourth teaspoonful of celery-seed. When tender, 
drain the chicken, remove the meat from the bones. 
Crack the bones, return them to the water in which the 
chicken was cooked, and simmer one hour more. 
Drain the broth and cool quickly; when cold, remove 
the fat and it is ready for soup, sauces, etc. (See 
Chicken Stock.) 

The meat may be used for sandwiches, panada, 
creamed, au supreme, etc. 



ii6 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Creamed Chicken. 

One cup of cooked chicken (cut into blocks). 
One level tablespoonful of flour. 
One level tablespoonful of butter. 
One-half cup of milk. 
One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 

Preferably use the white meat of a boiled or roasted 
chicken. Rub the flour and butter together until 
smooth in a small saucepan, add the milk, then stir 
in all directions over the fire until it comes to a boil, 
add the salt and chicken and reheat over hot water. 
Serve on a heated plate, on toast, box made of bread, 
or half of a toasted popover. 

In making the sauce, chicken stock can be substi- 
tuted for half of the milk. 

The hard-boiled yolk of one or two eggs may be 
mashed with a tablespoonful of cream to form a paste 
and add to the chicken just before serving by way of 
variety, also a small pinch of ground mace or a few 
drops of onion- juice. Or it may be garnished with 
the hard-boiled yolks of eggs pressed through a sieve 
and heaped over the top. 

Cream Sauce H. or HI. may also be used. (See 
page 157.) 

Chicken a la Bechamel. 

Follow the preceding recipe, adding one-half tea- 
spoonful of finely chopped parsley and the yolk of an 
egg lightly beaten a few minutes before it is removed 
from the fire. Care must be taken that it does not 
boil, or the egg will have a curdled appearance. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 117 

Scalloped Chicken. 

Prepare a cup of creamed chicken. Turn it into a 
small baking-dish, dust the top with bread-crumbs and 
reheat in a hot oven until a light brown, or use toast- 
crumbs and reheat by steaming. 

Chicken Terrapin. 

One cup of creamed chicken. 

Yolks of two eggs. 

One or two teaspoonfuls of sherry wine. 

Hard boil the yolks of the eggs and press them 
through a sieve, add enough milk to form a paste; 
then mix with the creamed chicken (see preceding 
recipe), and when hot add the sherry wine, and serve 
immediately. 

A pinch of ground mace may be added to the sauce. 

Devilled Chicken. 

One-half cup of cooked chicken. 
One level tablespoonful of flour. 
One level tablespoonful of butter. 
One-half cup of chicken stock or milk. 
One teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. 
Yolk of one egg (hard boiled). 
One tablespoonful of bread-crumbs. 
One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 

Chop the chicken very fine or run it through a 
meat-grinder. Rub the flour and butter together until 
smooth in a small saucepan, add the stock and stir 
in all directions over the fire until it boils, add salt, 
chicken, parsley, bread-crumbs, and yolk of egg 



ii8 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

mashed fine. Mix well. Fill into individual dishes 
or cases, sprinkle lightly with bread-crumbs, and 
brown in a quick oven. 

If desired, a few drops of onion-juice or a pinch 
of ground mace may be added. 

Chicken au Supreme. 

One-half breast of cooked chicken. 
One-half cup of cream sauce. 

Remove the half breast in one piece from a boiled 
or roasted chicken. Pour over it the cream sauce, 
sprinkle lightly with rolled toast-crumbs. Reheat in 
a hot oven five minutes or more. Garnish with pars- 
ley or the hard-boiled yolk of an egg pressed through 
a sieve. 

Chicken and Mushrooms. 

See page 134. 

Chicken in Brown Sauce. 

One cup of cooked chicken (cut into blocks). 
One level tablespoonful of browned flour. 
One level tablespoonful of butter. 
One-half cup of chicken stock. 
One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 
A few drops of onion- juice or one teaspoonful of 
sherry wine. 

Put the ordinary bread flour in a baking-pan and 
then into the oven until a light brown. Rub the flour 
and butter together in a saucepan until smooth, add 
the stock and stir over the fire until it is boiling, add 
the salt, chicken, and onion- juice. Reheat over hot 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 119 

water. If sherry wine is used, add at the last mo- 
ment. Serve on a heated plate, on toast, or with an 
omelet, etc. 

Minced Chicken with Poached Egg (Yolk). 

Prepare a half-cup of chicken with either a brown 
or a cream sauce and pour it over two pieces of toast. 
Make two shallow wells in the centre of each and 
drop in the yolks of the eggs only. Run them into 
a hot oven for five minutes. Serve immediately. 

A few crumbs of toast may be sifted over the top 
of the yolks by way of variety. 

Or, separate the eggs and drop the yolks into boil- 
ing water, then let them simmer for five minutes. 
Carefully drain, and serve them on top of chicken and 
toast as above directed, but do not reheat them in the 
oven. 

Chicken Sandwich. 

See page 154. 

Chicken and Rice. 

One-fourth cup of rice cooked in milk. 
One-half cup of creamed chicken. 

Boil some rice and then simmer it in milk as di- 
rected on page 146. Drain it very dry, then press it 
through a sieve, and line baking-cups (that have been 
lightly buttered), fill in the centre with creamed 
chicken, then cover the top with rice. Place in a 
baking-pan partly filled with boiling water, then place 
in a hot oven about ten minutes to reheat. Turn 
carefully from the moulds, garnish with hard-boiled 
yolk of tgg which has been pressed through a sieve, 
and serve with cream sauce. 



120 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

The rice-moulds may also be filled with devilled 
chicken by way of variety and then finished as above. 

Chicken in White Jelly. 

One-half cup of cream sauce. 

White meat of one-half a cold boiled or roasted 
chicken. 

One-half teaspoonful of gelatin. 

Cover the gelatin with cold water and let it stand 
while you make a half-cup of cream sauce; then add 
it to the sauce and stir until dissolved; add a few 
drops of onion- juice. Strain, and when nearly cool 
pour it over the chicken, which has been cut into neat 
pieces or sliced and well seasoned. Serve cold on a 
tender lettuce-leaf or garnished with young celery. 

The top may sometimes be sprinkled with rolled 
toast-crumbs and finely chopped parsley before the 
jelly has formed. 

The jelly may also be cut into slices and served 
with thin bread-and-butter sandwiches or toast. 

Chicken in Clear Jelly. 

One-half cup of chicken stock. 
One-half teaspoonful of gelatin. 
One-half cup of cooked chicken. 

Cover the gelatin with cold water and let it stand 
about fifteen minutes. Use well-flavored and sea- 
soned stock, bring it to a boil, then add the gelatin 
and stir until it is all dissolved, remove from the fire 
and pour into a cold bowl; when cool, finish as in 
preceding recipe. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 121 

Creamed Breaded Chicken. 

One-half cup of cooked chicken. 
One-quarter cup of soft bread-crumbs. 
One-half cup of cream sauce. 
One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 

Make the cream sauce (see page 157), add chicken 
cut into small pieces, and the soft white crumbs. Mix 
well. Turn into individual baking-dishes. Dust the 
top with stale bread-crumbs and brown in a quick 
oven. 

A few drops of onion-juice may be added with the 
chicken if desired. 

Chicken Timbale. 

One-half cup of soft bread-crumbs. 

One-fourth cup of milk. 

One-half cup of white meat of chicken. 

Whites of three eggs. 

One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 

Put the meat twice through a meat-grinder or chop 
it very fine. Moisten the crumbs with the milk and 
stir over the fire until it becomes a smooth paste. Add 
it to the chicken, season and mix, then stir in the well- 
beaten whites. Partly fill buttered tin moulds. Stand 
them in a baking-pan partly filled with boiling water 
and bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes. 

Cover them with paper while baking to keep them 
from browning. Serve hot with a cream, parsley, or 
egg sauce. 

By way of variety, a few drops of onion- juice and 
one-half teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley may be 
added to the raw chicken. 



122 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Chicken Souffle. 

One-half cup of cold chicken. 

One-half cup of milk. 

One-eighth teaspoonful of salt. 

One-half teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 

One level teaspoonful of cornstarch. 

One egg. 

One tablespoonful of soft bread-crumbs. 

Cook the crumbs and milk until smooth, stirring all 
the while, add the cornstarch, which has been moist- 
ened with a little cold water. Remove from the fire. 
Add the yolk of egg, parsley, chicken, and salt. Then 
stir in the well-beaten white of egg. Pour into a well- 
greased baking-dish and bake in a quick oven ten 
minutes. Serve immediately in the dish in which it 
was cooked. 

Birds. 

Those having dark flesh should be served rare and 
those with white flesh well done. This is a general 
rule that applies to all birds. 

Birds Broiled. 

Prepare and broil the same as directed for a Spring 
Chicken (page 114). Serve on toast. The toast may 
be softened with chicken stock or beef- juice, etc., or 
buttered. Allow less time for a bird to cook than a 
chicken (about fifteen to twenty-five minutes). 

Birds Smothered. 

See directions for Smothered Chicken, allowing less 
time for the bird to cook. And serve it on toast as 
above directed. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 123 

Birds Roasted. 

Prepare as directed for Chicken. Place in a 
baking-pan on a layer of celery and parsley. Cover 
the bottom of the pan with boiling water or stock and 
place it in a hot oven from fifteen to thirty minutes 
or until tender. Baste frequently. Serve on toast and 
season with salt. If desired, the toast may be softened 
with beef-juice, stock, or simply buttered. Garnish 
with celery. 

Currant-jelly may be also used at times. 

Squabs. 
Cook as directed under Birds. 



¥¥ 



BEEF AND MUTTON. 

Scraped Beef. 

Select one-half pound of beef from the tender side 
of the round. Have the meat cut into thin slices. 
Place on a board and scrape it with a sharp knife 
until you have the pulp of the meat separated from 
the tough stringy fibre. Form lightly into cakes or 
pats and either broil or pan broil them. Season with 
a little salt. Serve on a hot plate. Add a small piece 
of butter, and garnish with parsley, celery, or young 
lettuce. 

A few drops of fluid beef extract may be added 
with the butter if desired. 

Or, serve on a round of toast. The toast may be 
softened with hot beef -tea or beef-juice. 



124 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Beef Sandwich. 

Toast a thin slice of bread on one side only. Spread 
the untoasted side with beef scraped as directed above. 
If a gas-stove is used, broil lightly; if not, place in 
a hot oven a few moments until lightly cooked. Sea- 
son with salt and serve on a heated plate. 

A small piece of butter and, if desired, a few tea- 
spoonfuls of hot beef-tea or beef- juice may now be 
added. 

Raw Beef Sandwich. 

One-fourth pound of beef. 

Two thin slices of bread or toast. 

Salt or celery salt. 

Select well-flavored beef and have it cut into thin 
slices. Scrape with a sharp knife, just removing the 
pulp. Season lightly. Place a thin layer between the 
bread or toast, which has been buttered or not as 
desired. Serve on a lettuce-leaf. 

Broiled Beefsteak. 

Select a sirloin or tenderloin steak at least one inch, 
or, better, an inch and a half or two inches, in thick- 
ness. Wipe with a damp cloth. 

When a coal-stove is used a fire of glowing red 
coals is necessary. Heat a wire broiler, rub the wires 
quickly with a piece of suet; place the steak between 
it. Then hold the steak near the fire and sear it 
quickly on one side, then turn it and sear the other 
side. Now finish the broiling slowly, turning it often. 
A steak one inch in thickness will require about eight 
minutes or less to cook; whereas allow about ten 
minutes if one and a half inches. When done dust 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 125 

on each side with salt, serve on a heated dish spread 
with butter. Garnish with parsley or tender celery. 

When a gas-stove is used a broiler or broiling-oven 
is necessary. In this case light the gas and thoroughly 
heat the broiler. Grease as above, place the steak and 
put as near the flames as possible, searing on one 
side; then turn the steak (with a limber knife) and 
sear the other side. Now either reduce the heat or 
place the meat farther from the heat and cook slowly 
until done, and turning once again if a thick steak. 
Serve as above directed. 

Pan Broiling. 

Heat a frying- or omelet-pan, and when very hot 
put in the meat. Sear on one side, then turn and 
sear on the other side (in turning use a limber knife 
or turner), and so retain all the juice possible. Finish 
cooking more slowly, turning the meat often. 

Season and serve as directed for Broiled Steak. 

Roast of Beef. 

Select a rib roast (preferably two ribs) and place 
in a baking-pan, ribs down. Put a teaspoonful of 
salt in one corner and pour in enough boiling water 
to cover the bottom of the pan. Place in a very hot 
oven. In ten minutes begin to baste; then again in 
ten minutes. Now it should be seared all over, so 
reduce the heat and allow it to cook fifteen minutes 
for each pound of beef. Baste frequently. Serve on 
a heated plate. 

If a one-rib roast is selected, place in a very hot 
oven as above directed, but begin basting in five min- 



126 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

utes, then again in five minutes. Now reduce the heat 
and only allow it to cook ten minutes for every pound. 
If the water evaporates from the bottom of the pan, 
add more boiling water. 

Hamburg Steaks. 

Select a half-pound of beef from off the round, 
remove all fat and gristle; run it twice through a 
meat-chopper or chop it very fine. Season Hghtly with 
pepper. 

Moisten the hands with cold water and gently shape 
the meat into several round cakes or steaks. Broil 
or pan broil them as directed. Season with salt and 
serve plain or with a brown or tomato sauce. 

If desired, a few drops of onion-juice may be added 
to the chopped meat. 

Mutton-Chops Broiled. 

Have the chops cut at least one inch, or, better, an 
inch and a half, in thickness. Broil exactly the same 
as directed for beefsteak. When serving the butter 
may be omitted. 

French Chops. 

Trim all the meat and fat from the bone of a chop 
except the large muscle at the thick end. Broil as 
directed above. 

Boiled Mutton. 

Select a leg or shoulder of mutton. Wipe it care- 
fully with a damp cloth. Dust thickly with flour, 
wrap it in a piece of cheese-cloth, tie. Place it in 
a kettle of boiling water and boil rapidly five min- 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 127 

utes; then simmer until done, allowing it to cook 
twenty minutes to each pound. Add one teaspoonful 
of salt fifteen minutes before removing it from the 
fire. 

Roast of Mutton. 

Follow directions for a Roast of Beef, allowing it 
to cook fifteen minutes for each pound. 

Mutton Stew. 

Two chops (one-half pound). 
One quart of water. 
Two toasted crackers. 
Three-fourths cup of diced potatoes. 
One teaspoonful of cornstarch. 
Salt and pepper. 

Remove the outside skin and fat from the chops, also 
the large muscle at the thick end. Crack the bones 
and cut the meat trimmings left on the bones into 
small pieces. Cover the bones and trimmings with cold 
water; bring slowly to a boil and simmer about two 
hours, or until reduced to one pint. Strain and cool 
quickly. When cold, remove all fat. Reheat, and when 
boiling add the meat (the large muscles) cut into 
several pieces and simmer until tender, add one-half 
teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. 

Moisten the cornstarch with a little cold water, add 
to the stew, and stir until it thickens. Now add the 
diced potatoes, which have been freshly boiled, and 
simmer about five minutes longer. 

If desired, add a few drops of onion-juice. Serve 
with toasted crackers. 



128 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Boiled Bacon. 

Wash a piece of bacon well in cold water. Cover 
with fresh cold water, bring to a boil, then simmer 
fifteen or twenty minutes for each pound. Drain, and 
serve in thin sHces. 

FISH. 
Broiled Fish. 

Select blue-fish, shad, fresh mackerel, or trout. 
Be sure all the scales are removed, and have the fish 
split down the back and cleaned. Wash quickly in 
cold water. Rub a broiler with suet ; put on your fish 
and broil the same as steak, exposing the flesh or in- 
side to the fire first. Remove from the fire, season 
with salt, and serve on a hot plate with a small piece 
of butter spread over it. Garnish with parsley and 
lemon. 

H a gas-stove is used : Heat a plank of hard smooth 
wood. Place the fish, skin side down, on the board. 
Put under the broiler or in the oven. Cook at a high 
temperature for the first five minutes, then reduce the 
heat and cook slowly until done. Baste several times 
with slightly salted boiling water. Serve from the 
plank on which it was cooked. Season lightly with 
salt and spread with butter. Garnish with parsley and 
slices of lemon. 

This method is called planking. 

Baked Fish. 

Select a white-fleshed fish, free it from scales and 
have it drawn from the gills. Wash quickly in cold 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 129 

water. Place in an enamel- or agate-ware baking-pan, 
dust with pepper, and just cover the bottom of the 
pan with boiling water. Add a teaspoonful of salt in 
a corner of the pan. Bake in a hot oven, basting every 
ten minutes. Add more boiling water when it evap- 
orates. Bake fifteen minutes for each pound. Dish 
carefully and serve with a cream or egg sauce. Gar- 
nish with parsley and slices of lemon. 

Boiled Fish. 

Prepare a fish as for broiling or baking. Drop it into 
boiling water, then simmer until tender, allowing ten 
minutes for each pound. When nearly done add salt. 
Drain, and serve with a cream sauce, sauce Holland- 
aise, or egg sauce. 

If boiling a large fish, wrap it in one thickness of 
cheese-cloth so it can be removed without breaking. 

To vary the flavor, add to the water before adding 

the fish a slice of onion, a small bay-leaf, or blade of 

mace. 

Creamed Halibut. 

One-half pound of halibut. 

One-half cup of milk. 

A dash of pepper. 

One level tablespoonful of flour. 

One level tablespoonful of butter. 

One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 

Have the fish cut at least one inch in thickness; 
drop into boiling water, then simmer for ten minutes. 
Add a pinch of salt to the water several minutes be- 
fore it is done. Remove from the fire, drain and pick 
into pieces, removing all bones and skin. 

9 



130 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Rub the butter and flour together in a saucepan, add 
the milk, stir in all directions over the fire until it 
boils, add the salt, pepper, and fish, and reheat over 
hot water. 

Fresh cod may also be prepared in the same way. 

Cream Sauce H. or HI. may also be used. 

Scalloped Fish. 

Follow the preceding recipe, putting the fish and 
sauce into a baking-dish, dusting the top with bread- 
crumbs, and place in a hot oven to reheat (about five 
minutes). 

Garnish with finely chopped parsley or the hard- 
boiled yolk of an egg pressed through a sieve, or both. 

Fish a la Bechamel. 

Follow the recipe for Creamed Fish, adding the 
lightly beaten yolk of one egg and a teaspoonful of 
finely chopped parsley just before removing it from 
the fire. 

Halibut and Rice. 

Follow any of the above recipes, using half the 
quantity of halibut and an equal quantity of plain 
boiled rice. 

Fish Timbale. 

One-half cup of raw fish. 
One-half cup of soft bread-crumbs. 
One-fourth cup of milk. 
One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 
Whites of three eggs, 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 131 

For these use a good white fish, such as haHbut. 
Remove all bones and skin. Pick into fine pieces and 
then measure a half-cup. 

Put the milk and crumbs into a small saucepan and 
stir over the fire until it is a smooth paste. Remove 
from the fire. Cut or chop the fish very fine with a 
silver knife, add it to the milk and bread, also add the 
salt. (If desired, a pinch of mace, a few drops of 
onion-juice, or a half-teaspoonful of finely chopped 
parsley may be added) . Beat the mixture with a silver 
fork and stir in the well-beaten whites of eggs. Partly 
fill buttered tin moulds. Place them in a baking-pan 
partly filled with boiling water and bake in a moderate 
oven fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Garnish with parsley and hard-boiled yolk of an egg 
pressed through a sieve. Serve with a cream sauce. 



Fillets of Fish. 

Select a slice of halibut about one inch in thick- 
ness. Boil as directed. Drain very dry. Cut into 
pieces. When cold dip in the yolk of two eggs which 
have been slightly beaten with a tablespoonful of 
water, then in crumbs of toast, dip again in egg and 
then in crumbs. Heat in a hot oven about five min- 
utes. 

Serve with a small piece of butter on the top of 
each and a cream sauce. Garnish with parsley and 
slices of lemon. 

Put a little boiling water in the bottom of the 
baking-pan to keep the fillets from burning, and baste 
(while cooking) once or twice. 

The fillets may be dipped in a cold cream sauce and 



132 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

then into crumbs if desired instead of the egg and 
crumbs. 

If a hot oven is not obtainable, reheat by steaming. 

Fish a la Creme. 

One cup of pieces of cold fish. 
One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 
One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 
Yolk of an egg. 
One cup of cream sauce. 

Make the cream sauce, beat the yolk until light, add 
to the sauce also the parsley and salt. Put a layer of 
this sauce in a baking-dish, then a layer of fish, and 
so on, having the last layer sauce. Dust the top with 
bread-crumbs and brown in the oven. Serve in the 
same dish. This may also be baked in individual 
dishes. 

Salmon a la Creme. 

Select fresh salmon and follow recipe for Creamed 
HaHbut. 

Devilled Halibut. 

One-half pound of cold boiled fish. 

One-half cup of milk. 

Yolks of two eggs. 

A few drops of onion- juice. 

One tablespoonful of flour. 

One-half tablespoonful of butter. 

One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 

Hard boil the yolks of eggs and press them through 
a sieve. Pick the fish into small pieces. 

Rub the butter and flour together in a saucepan 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 133 

and add the milk cold, stir in all directions over the 
fire until it boils. Remove from the fire, add the fish, 
yolks, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, 
parsley, and onion- juice. Fill individual baking-dishes 
or shells with this mixture, brush the top with a 
lightly beaten yolk of an egg, dust with fine bread- 
crumbs, and run into a hot oven for five minutes, or 
use toast-crumbs and heat by steaming. 

Moulded Halibut. 

Boil halibut as above directed. Pick into pieces. 
Butter a china baking-cup. Alix the fish with just 
enough cream sauce to hold it together, partly fill the 
cups with this mixture. Place in a baking-pan partly 
filled with boiling water and reheat in a hot oven (five 
minutes). Turn carefully from the mould and serve 
immediately with a cream sauce or sauce HoUandaise 
which you have made and kept hot over water. 

Garnish with finely chopped parsley and a hard- 
boiled yolk of egg pressed through a sieve. 



¥¥ 



MUSHROOMS. 

Hothouse or fresh mushrooms should only be pur- 
chased from a reliable dealer, unless the purchaser or 
cook is familiar with the different varieties to know 
which are edible, as some are poisonous. 

They should not be peeled, as much of the flavor 
would then be lost, but must be well washed in several 
cold waters, tossing them up and down to be sure 



134 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

nothing is lodged in the gills. Drain and cook whole 
or in slices, as desired. 

Mushrooms are usually about ninety per cent, water, 
and are valuable on account of their agreeable flavor, 
and form a pleasant combination with chicken, sweet- 
breads, eggs, etc. 

Care must be exercised that they are cooked slowly, 
or they will be rendered tough and indigestible and 
their flavor lost. 

If canned mushrooms are used they only require to 
be reheated. They have already been cooked, and 
much heat would render them tough. The flavor is 
inferior to the fresh mushrooms. 

Mushrooms in a Cream Sauce. 

One-half cup of mushrooms. 
One-half cup of milk. 
One-half tablespoonful of flour. 
One-half tablespoonful of butter. 
One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 

Wash the mushrooms thoroughly in cold water, 
drain. Do not peel, cut them into slices (up and 
down with the gills). 

Rub the butter and flour together in a small sauce- 
pan until smooth, add the milk, and stir over the fire 
until it thickens, add the salt and mushrooms. Cook 
over hot water about five minutes or until tender. 

If desired whole, simmer ten minutes or more. 

Mushrooms in a Brown Sauce. 

Follow directions for making a half-cup of brown 
sauce, using chicken stock. Prepare the mushrooms 



SIGK AND CONVALESCENT. 135 

and cook them in the brown sauce as directed above 
with a cream sauce. If a stimulant is desired, add 
a teaspoonful of sherry wine. 

Broiled Mushrooms. 

Select large mushrooms, wash them well, remove 
the stems, dust lightly with salt and pepper. Broil 
lightly until tender. Serve on toast with a small piece 
of butter. 

Baked Mushrooms. 

Prepare as above directed, then bake in a moderate 
oven about ten minutes or until tender. Baste twice 
with hot chicken stock. 

Mushroom Soup I. 

One cup of mushrooms. 

One cup of chicken stock. 

One cup of milk. 

One tablespoonful of cornstarch. 

One teaspoonful of butter. 

Yolk of one egg. 

One-half teaspoonful of salt. 

Wash the mushrooms thoroughly in cold water. Do 
not peel, cut them into thin slices (up and down with 
the gills). 

Put the milk and stock in a double boiler, and when 
hot add the mushrooms and salt. Cook slowly about 
five minutes or until tender, then stir in the cornstarch, 
which has been moistened with a little cold water. 
Cook several minutes, then add the yolk of egg 
lightly beaten. Serve with croutons and the butter 
broken into small pieces. 



136 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

If desired, the soup may be pressed through a fine 
sieve just before the yolk of egg is added. 

Mushroom Soup II. (thickened with Yolks of Eggs 
and free from Starch). 

Follow preceding recipe, but omit the cornstarch, 
and add the yolks of three eggs instead of the one 
yolk. 

VEGETABLES. 

Green Vegetables, or those that grow above the 
Ground (Boiled). 

Wash well in cold water. Have fresh water boil- 
ing in a saucepan. Add one teaspoonful of salt to 
each quart of water. In a few minutes add the vege- 
tables, bring the water again to boiling, then simmer 
or boil very slowly until tender. Drain and serve. 

This rule applies to asparagus, corn, young peas, 
Lima beans, string-beans, celery, kale, spinach, toma- 
toes, etc. 

By way of variety, all of these vegetables may be 
served with a cream sauce, made as follows : 

Cream Sauce I. 

Rub one level tablespoonful of butter and the same 
quantity of flour together in a small saucepan. Add 
one-fourth cup of milk and one-fourth cup of water 
in which the vegetable was cooked. Stir in all direc- 
tions over the fire until it comes to a boil, add one- 
eighth level teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 137 

Cream Sauce II. 

Put one-fourth cup of milk and same quantity of 
water in which the vegetable was cooked into a small 
saucepan, and when boiling stir in a level teaspoonful 
of cornstarch or arrowroot that has been moistened 
with a little cold water. Cook for a minute, remove 
from the fire, and add a small piece of butter, one- 
eighth level teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of pepper. 

Cream Sauce III. (thickened v^ith Egg). 

Follow directions in preceding recipe, omitting the 
starch and adding the slightly beaten yolk of one egg. 
Finish as above, being careful that the sauce do not 
boil after the egg is added, or it will have a curdled 
appearance. 

Asparagus. 

Pare or scrape the lower part of the stems, wash 
well in cold water, and tie into bundles, placing the 
heads all one way. Cook as directed above under 
Green Vegetables. 

Asparagus may also be served on toast with a cream 
sauce or simply buttered. 

Spinach. 

Cut off the leaves and throw into cold water. Toss 
up and down several times, then drain and place them 
in another pan of fresh water. Repeat this washing 
several times, making sure you have removed all the 
dirt and sand. Drain, and throw them into a large 
saucepan containing just enough water to cover the 
bottom. Sprinkle salt over the spinach, cover the 



138 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

saucepan, and cook six to ten minutes. Drain very- 
dry. Cut fine with a knife and fork, serve hot with 
small pieces of butter broken over the top and a hard- 
boiled yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve. 

Moulded Spinach. 

Follow the preceding recipe for cooking the spinach, 
and when it is chopped fine press into heated baking- 
cups or moulds that you have buttered. Turn out on 
your serving dish and garnish with the hard-boiled 
yolk of egg pressed through a sieve. 

If cold, reheat the spinach by placing the cups in a 
pan containing boiling water and then into a hot oven 
for five minutes. 

Cream of Spinach Soup. 

See page 71. 

Boiled Corn. 

Corn is at its best when cooked as soon as possible 
after it is picked, as it soon loses its sweetness. Select 
young ears, remove the husks and every thread of the 
silk. Drop into boiling salted water and simmer until 
tender (from five to fifteen minutes). Drain and 
serve. 

To Eat Corn. 

Score every row of grains with a sharp knife, spread 
lightly with butter, and with the teeth press out the 
centre of the grain, leaving the hull on the cob. This 
way it is safe for an invalid to eat, as the hull is the 
only part which is indigestible. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 139 

Corn baked in the Husk. 

Put the ear of corn, husks and all, into a hot oven 
and bake until tender (about fifteen or twenty min- 
utes). Remove the husks and silk, score, and serve 
with butter and salt. 

Corn is much sweeter cooked in this manner. 

Corn-Pudding. 
Two ears of corn. 
One egg. 
A pinch of salt. 

Remove husks and silk from the corn. Score each 
row of grains, and press out the centre of the grain 
with a fork or the back of a knife. Separate the egg. 
Add the yolk and salt to the corn. Beat the white to 
a stiff froth, mix all together and pour into a small 
baking-dish and bake about twenty or thirty minutes. 

If boiled corn is used, it will bake in ten minutes. 

Corn-Cakes. 

Follow the above recipe, but drop the corn mixture 
by spoonfuls on a hot (ungreased) griddle and bake 
until brown, then turn and brown on the other side. 
Serve hot with a small piece of butter on each. 

Tomatoes served Raw. 

Select two firm, red, ripe tomatoes, place in a colan- 
der and pour boiling water over them. Then care- 
fully remove the skins. Cut a slice from the bottom 
of each and with a small, sharp knife remove all the 
seeds. Chop one tomato rather fine and fill into the 
hollow portions of the other. Chill on the ice and 



I40 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

serve with French salad dressing or mayonnaise. 
Garnish with a lettuce-leaf. 

Panned Tomatoes. 

Prepare two tomatoes as above directed, dust lightly 
with pepper and salt and place in a small baking-pan, 
cover the bottom of the pan with boiling water and 
bake in a hot oven ten minutes. Serve with a small 
piece of butter on the top. 

This may also be served with a cream sauce. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Follow preceding recipe, filling the tomatoes with 
small pieces of stale bread or, preferably, with toast, 
season lightly with salt, and if desired add a few drops 
of onion-juice. Bake and serve as above directed. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Select fresh tomatoes, remove skins and seeds as 
above directed. Cut into small pieces. Place in a 
saucepan and cook as quickly as possible until soft 
(about five minutes). Season with salt and pepper. 
Serve hot with a small piece of butter on neatly cut 
slices of toast, or drain and serve on a hot saucer. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. 

Skin, remove the seeds, and cut ripe tomatoes into 
pieces as directed in preceding recipe. Select a small 
or individual baking-dish, cover the bottom with pieces 
of tomato, add a layer of small pieces of toast or stale 
bread, then another layer of tomatoes, dust with salt 
or pepper. Bake in a hot oven ten or fifteen minutes. 
Serve with a small piece of butter broken over the top. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 141 

If desired, a few drops of onion-juice may be added 

before cooking. 

Green Peas. 

Remove them from their pods just before using and 
cook as directed under Green Vegetables. 

When cooked, they may also be pressed through a 
sieve where the skins are objectionable. 

Lima Beans. 

Remove from their shells and boil as directed above. 
When eating, reject the skins or slip them off just 
before serving. 

Boiled Onions. 

Remove the dry outside skin and cook until tender 
as directed for Green Vegetables. Serve with butter 
or a cream sauce. 

Baked Onions. 

Boil a medium-sized onion, and when nearly done 
drain, and place it in a small baking-dish and pour 
over one-half cup of cream sauce or boiling water. 
Bake about twenty minutes or until very tender. 

Cooked Cucumbers. 

Remove the green rind, cut into quarters lengthwise. 
Remove the seeds and cook as directed under Green 
Vegetables. Serve with a cream sauce. 

Stewed Celery. 

Scrape and wash the stalks in cold water. Cut into 
pieces about one inch long. Drop into boiling salted 
water (add one teaspoonful of salt for each quart of 



142 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

water), and let the water again come to a boil and 
simmer until tender. Serve in a cream sauce made by 
rubbing a level tablespoonful of flour and the same 
quantity of butter together in a small saucepan. Add 
one-fourth cup of milk and one-fourth cup of water 
in which the celery was cooked. Stir (in all direc- 
tions) over the fire until it comes to a boil. Drain the 
celery, add it to the sauce, and serve. 

Brussels Sprouts. 

Pick off all the dead leaves from the sprouts. Wash 
well in cold water. Cook and serve the same as stewed 
celery. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Select medium-sized potatoes. Scrub them thor- 
oughly in cold water. Bake them in a hot oven until 
soft (about forty-five minutes). Then remove from 
the oven and gently roll in a cloth between the hands. 
Be careful not to break the skins. This will make the 
potatoes mealy. Open just before eating and serve 
with salt and butter. 

The oven must be hot; if just moderately so, they 
will not be cooked at a high enough temperature to 
undergo the change that renders them so easy of diges- 
tion. 

Stuffed Potatoes. 

Two medium-sized potatoes. 

One egg. 

A pinch of salt. 

One teaspoonful of hot milk. 

Bake the potatoes as directed in preceding recipe. 
When done cut into halves. Scoop out the potato into 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 143 

a hot bowl, add salt and hot milk, and beat with a 
fork until light. Beat the white of egg to a froth, 
add the potatoes. Fill the skins with this mixture, 
heaping it on the top; brush them with the yolk of 
an egg and brown in a quick oven. Serve in the skins. 

Boiled Potatoes. 

Wash well and pare, cover with boiling water and 
boil until tender. Just before they are done pour in 
a cup of cold water, bring again to a boil (this will 
drive the heat to the very centre of the potatoes and 
make them mealy). Drain and dust with salt. Serve 
very hot with a little butter. 

Grilled Potatoes. 

Boil a large white potato until soft, drain, and season 
lightly with salt. Cut into slices about three-eighths 
of an inch in thickness. Broil rather slowly until they 
become a golden brown, serve hot with a little butter 
and more salt if desired. 

Creamed Potatoes. 

Two potatoes. 

One level tablespoonful of flour. 

One level tablespoonful of butter. 

One-half cup of milk. 

A dash of pepper. 

A pinch of salt. 

One-half teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. 

Boil the potatoes and cut into thick slices or tubes. 
Rub the butter and flour together in a small sauce- 
pan. Add th$ milk and stir (in all directions) over the 



144 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

fire until it comes to a boil, add salt and parsley, then 
the potatoes. Reheat over hot water. 

Scalloped Potatoes. 

Follow the recipe for Creamed Potatoes. Put the 
sliced potatoes in a baking-dish. Cover them with 
the cream sauce. Dust the top with fine bread-crumbs 
and put in a hot oven about ten minutes. 

Serve in the dish in which they were cooked. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Boil the potatoes as directed above, and when 
drained very dry mash them into the pot in which 
they were cooked. Add a small piece of butter and 
beat with a fork until very light, adding a Httle hot 
milk slowly. Keep warm over hot water, as they must 
be served while hot. 

Allow one teaspoonful of butter and two tablespoon- 
fuls of hot milk for each cup of potato. 

Baked Mashed Potatoes. 

Fill a baking-dish with mashed potatoes. Brush the 
top with milk or the beaten yolk of egg and bake in 
a hot oven until a golden brown (about ten minutes). 

Serve in the dish in which they were cooked. 

Potato Puff or Souffle. 

One cup of hot mashed potatoes. 
The white of one egg. 

Beat the white of egg to a stiff froth and stir gently 
into the mashed potatoes. When well mixed heap in 
a small baking-dish, brush with milk or yolk of egg, 
and put in a quick oven to brown. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 145 

Squash. 

Cut a squash into eighths, then remove the skin 
and seeds. Steam until very tender, dust with salt, 
mash fine, and drain. Serve with butter, or stir in 
a little cream sauce (allow one tablespoonful of sauce 
for each cup of squash and reheat over hot water). 

Squash may also be cooked in water as directed 
under Green Vegetables, drained very dry and served 
as above. 

A pinch of mace may be added if desired. 

Green Peppers and Rice. 

Select green, sweet peppers, cut into halves and re- 
move the seeds; cook until tender in boiling salted 
water, drain, and fill with plain or savory rice. Serve 
hot. 

Or, remove a slice from the bottom of each pepper, 
remove seeds, etc., serving as above. 

Sweet Peppers. 

Cook until tender, as directed above, and serve in a 
cream sauce. Just before serving cut them into small 
pieces. 

Boiled Rice. 

One tablespoonful of rice. 
One pint of boiling water. 
One-fourth level teaspoonful of salt. 

Wash the rice quickly in cold water. Have the 
water boiling in a saucepan, add the salt and sprinkle 
in the rice slowly. After all the rice is in the water, 
give it a twirl with a fork, then do not stir again. Boil 

10 



146 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

rapidly until soft (twenty or thirty minutes). Pour 
into a colander to drain, and when possible stand it in 
the oven for several minutes to dry, leaving the door 
wide open. 

Savory Rice. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of boiled rice in a warm 
saucer and pour over it one tablespoonful of beef- 
juice diluted with one tablespoonful of water, or the 
same quantity of dish gravy (free from fat) from a 
cut roast beef or mutton. 

Rice Cooked in Chicken Stock. 

One-half cup of rice. 
One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 
One pint of chicken stock. 

Wash the rice thoroughly in cold water, drain, and 
put it in the upper half of a double boiler, add the 
stock, hot, and the salt. Do not stir, and cook continu- 
ously for one hour. 

Rice Cooked in Milk. 

Follow preceding recipe, substituting one pint of 
milk for the pint of stock. 

Rice Patties. 

Cook as much rice as desired either in milk or stock, 
and when soft press it through a sieve and turn it 
into a dish about three inches deep. When cold and 
firm cut it into rounds or blocks. Hollow out the 
centre of each. Fill them with creamed chicken, etc. 
Reheat by steaming over hot water. Garnish and 
serve hot. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 147 

To Steam. — Have a little water in a large saucepan 
with a tight-fitting lid. Place a small block of wood 
in the saucepan and on it rest your dish. 

Macaroni. 

Drop short lengths of macaroni into boiling salted 
water (allow one teaspoonful of salt for each quart 
of water) and cook until tender. Drain, cut into rings 
about one-fourth inch wide. Place in a double boiler 
and cover with a cream sauce (I. or II.), tomato 
sauce or stock, and simmer about twenty or thirty 
minutes (do not stir). Add a few bread or toast- 
crumbs and serve hot. 

Macaroni Baked. 

Follow above recipe, but reheat by placing it in a 
baking-pan. Put the crumbs over the top, and then 
into a moderate oven for twenty or thirty minutes. 

A few drops of onion- juice added to the sauce is an 
improvement. 

Alacaroni may also be boiled in stock, preferably 
chicken, and then finished as above. 

Vermicelli. 

Break the vermicelli into short lengths and drop 
them into boiling salted water or well-seasoned stock 
(preferably chicken) and cook fifteen minutes. Drain, 
turn into a dish, and dust lightly with toast-crumbs. 

With Cream Sauce. — Plain boil the vermicelli, drain, 
and cover with a cream sauce (I. or II.). Reheat 
about five minutes either over hot water or in the 
oven. 



148 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

A few drops of onion- juice added to the sauce is an 
improvement. 

With Tomato Sauce. — Substitute tomato sauce for 
the cream sauce and follow preceding recipe. 

Macaroni and vermicelli are valuable for the large 
amount of gluten they contain. Vermicelli also has 
advantages in being quickly prepared. 

SALADS. 

Salads are divided into two classes : first, the vege- 
table salad, served with a French dressing, and sec- 
ond, the meat or meat and vegetable, served with a 
mayonnaise dressing. 

The first are simple salads and very wholesome. 
The green vegetables contain the salts necessary for 
our blood and the olive oil is an easily digested fat. 
These should be served with the meat course or just 
after it with a nicely toasted cracker. The second 
class should be served as the principal dish of a meal. 

All salads should be daintily served and never 
mixed with their dressing until serving time. The 
green vegetables must always be carefully washed in 
cold water, as they frequently contain little green bugs 
in their creases or folds that are not easily seen. This 
is especially true of lettuce and cress. 

French Salad Dressing. 

Three or four tablespoonfuls of olive oil. 
One tablespoonful of lemon- juice or vinegar. 
One-fourth level teaspoonful of salt. 
A dash of pepper. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 149 

Select a small cruet or bottle with a glass stopper. 
Put in all the ingredients, then shake vigorously for 
a minute or two and it is ready for use. The oil and 
bottle must both be cold. 

If a bottle is not available put the oil in a saucer 
with the salt, and then add the lemon-juice, gradually 
beating all the while. 

The bottle is by far the better method, and if not 
all used, the dressing may be kept for another time. 
Keep in a cool place and shake again before using. 

A few drops of mint or onion- juice may be added 
if desired. 

French dressing is served on all green vegetables, 
celery, and tomatoes. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Place two eggs, a bottle of oil, and a soup-dish or 
bowl on the ice an hour before using them. Separate 
the eggs, using the yolks only. Place them in a dish, 
add a quarter teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper, 
mix slightly, then add the oil drop by drop, beating all 
the while, using a silver or wooden fork. 

When thick add a few drops of lemon- juice, then 
oil, and so on until you have the desired quantity of 
dressing. 

Instead of using both yolks raw one may be hard 
boiled, and then cooled and stood near the ice for an 
hour. Mash fine and mix the raw yolk with it and 
proceed as above. It is then easier (especially for a 
novice) to handle. 

By way of variety add a few drops of mint or onion- 
juice, and to each gill of dressing add a tablespoonful 
of plain or whipped cream just before serving and the 



150 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

hard-boiled yolks of one or two eggs that have been 
pressed through a sieve and rubbed smooth. The 
cream, and especially the hard-boiled yolks of eggs, 
will remove the extreme oily taste objectionable to 
some people, and especially to those not accustomed 
to mayonnaise. 

The extra hard-boiled yolks of eggs are also an 
advisable addition in warm weather, otherwise the 
dressing is apt to run even while being served. 

Mayonnaise dressing is a heavier food, and is served 
on chicken, sweetbreads, etc., and sometimes on let- 
tuce, celery, and tomatoes. 

Lettuce Salad. 

Choose the crisp centre leaves of a head of lettuce. 
Wash them thoroughly in several waters. Let stand 
in ice-cold water ten minutes or more. Drain very 
dry (if at all wet, the dressing wnll not cling to it). 
Place in a deep bowl, pour over them French salad 
dressing, and gently turn and toss until the leaves are 
all covered. Serve on a plate. 

If the outer leaves are used, after washing and re- 
moving all bruised and discolored parts, tear them 
into pieces vxdth the fingers, rejecting the middle rib, 
then serve as above. 

Watercress Salad. 

Choose young cress, and wash it thoroughly in sev- 
eral cold waters, removing any discolored leaves. 
Drain very dry. Place in a deep bowl, pour over it a 
French salad dressing, and gently turn and toss until 
all is covered. Serve on a plate either with or with- 
out a lettuce-leaf. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 151 

Celery Salad. 

Choose the inner and white stalks of celery, wash 
thoroughly, then cut into pieces, crosswise, drain, and 
cover with a French dressing. This celery may also 
be served on a lettuce-leaf. 

Alayonnaise dressing is sometimes used instead of 
the French dressin 



&• 



Fringed Celery Salad. 

Prepare the celery as above, but cut it into pieces 
two inches long. Then slice each end about three- 
fourths of an inch deep, then cut again at right angles. 
Throw these into ice-water for an hour and each end 
will be curled. Drain carefully and serve as above 
directed. 

Asparagus Salad. 

Boil asparagus until tender. When cold remove the 
tips and serve them with French dressing on a 
lettuce-leaf. 

Tomato Salad. 

Select two round ripe tomatoes. Put them in a 
sieve, pour boiling water over them, then remove the 
skins, cut a slice off the stem end and with a small 
sharp knife remove all the seeds. Chop or cut one 
tomato rather fine and fill it into the hollow parts of 
the other tomato. Stand in a cold place until serving- 
time, then pour over it a spoonful or more of French 
dressing. Serve on a lettuce-leaf. 

If desired, the tomato may be cut into slices and 
then the hollow parts filled in. 



152 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Tomato and Celery Salad. 

Prepare one tomato as directed in preceding recipe 
and fill in the hollow parts with finely chopped celery. 
Serve and garnish as directed above. 

Chopped Tomato Salad. 

Prepare a tomato as directed under Tomato Salad, 
cut it into rather fine pieces, and serve on one or two 
tender lettuce-leaves with a French or mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Egg Salad. 

Hard boil the yolks of two eggs and press them 
through a sieve, or cut into small pieces. Select two 
tender lettuce-leaves, lap one half-way over the other 
to form a cup. Heap the egg lightly in the centre, dust 
with salt, and pour over all a French dressing. 

Daisy Salad. 

Select the tender, inside stalks of celery. Wash 
and cut them into two-inch lengths, then into strips, 
cover them with French dressing and arrange them 
on a plate or flattened lettuce-leaf in a circle to imi- 
tate the petals of a daisy. Fill in the centre with the 
hard-boiled yolks of one or two eggs that have been 
pressed through a sieve, dust lightly with salt, and add 
more French dressing. 

Cabbage Salad. 

Select a hard head of cabbage. Cut into halves 
with a sharp knife, slice or shred very fine the desired 
quantity. Throw it into ice-water for about fifteen 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 153 

minutes, drain very dry and cover with a French 
dressing. Serve immediately on a plate or lettuce- 
leaf. 

Bean Salad. 

Select your Lima or string beans. Cook until ten- 
der as directed under Green Vegetables. When cold 
serve with a French dressing. 

Green Pea Salad. 

Follow directions for Bean Salad. 

Potato Salad. 

Plain boil a white potato. While hot cut it into 
slices and pour over it a well-made French dressing. 
Arrange this on lettuce-leaves, and when cold it is 
ready to serve. A few drops of onion-juice may also 
be added. 

Chicken Salad. 

Cut cold roasted or boiled chicken into blocks. 
Preferably use the white meat only. At serving-time 
cover each piece with mayonnaise dressing and arrange 
neatly on one or two lettuce-leaves. 

A little finely chopped celery may be covered with 
a French dressing and added to the chicken if desired. 

Garnish with the heart of a head of lettuce, celery, 
or the hard-boiled yolk of an tgg pressed through a 
sieve. 

Sweetbread Salad. 

See page 102. 



154 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

SANDWICHES. 

Preferably select bread a day old. It should be 
cut into thin even slices and neatly trimmed, either 
square, round, oblong, or triangular. 

The bread may also be toasted and then slightly 
softened with cream, beef- juice, or stock, according 
to the kind of sandwich and the nutriment required. 

The butter should be worked with a fork or wooden 
spoon until soft and creamy. It will then spread easily 
and without crumbling the bread. 

Sandwiches are subject to many variations, and can 
be made attractive and appetizing to the most fas- 
tidious. They often form a pleasant change for an 
invalid's lunch or supper. 

Open Sajidzviches are made with one slice of bread 
only, spread with butter and a layer of meat, eggs, 
or celery, etc., and are served with a fork. 

Double Sandwiches are made the same as the open 
sandwiches with a second slice of bread placed over 
the top. 

Sandwiches may be garnished or served on a let- 
tuce-leaf or shredded lettuce and covered with a 
French dressing. 

Chicken Sandwich. 

Preferably use the white meat of cold cooked 
chicken. Slice it thinly or chop it fine. Then fol- 
low directions for making either an Open or Double 
Sandwich. Garnish with the hard-boiled yolk of an 
Qgg (pressed through a sieve), or chopped celery and 
mayonnaise, by way of a variety. 

The bread may be toasted or not as desired. 



SICK AND COXVALESCEXT 155 

Creamed Chicken Sandwich. 

Follow preceding recipe, using cold creamed 
chicken. (See page 116.) 

Hot Roast Beef Sandwiches. 

Toast one or two slices of bread, spread lightly with 
butter, cover with a slice or two of hot roast beef. 
Season lightly, and pour over two tablespoonfuls of 
beef-juice or dish gravy (free from fat). Serve im- 
mediately on a heated plate. Garnish with celery. 

Cold Beef Sandwich. 

Use cold broiled steak or roast beef. Slice or chop 
it rather fine, and follow directions for an Open or 
Double Sandwich. 

Raw Beef Sandwich. 

See page 13. 

Celery Sandwich. 

Wash and finely chop young celery. Make an open 
sandwich with toast and garnish with mayonnaise or 
hard-boiled yolk of tgg, or both. 

Lettuce Sandwich. 

Wash the lettuce thoroughly. (See page 150.) 
Tear it into small pieces, cover with a French dress- 
ing, and place it between two slices of bread or toast. 

Cress Sandwich. 
Follow directions for Lettuce Sandwich. 



156 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Cheese Sandwich. 

Dip crackers quickly into boiling salted water; then 
toast them a golden brown. Spread with butter if 
desired and dust with grated cheese. 

Fruit Sandwich. 

Wash dates, figs, and raisins thoroughly. Chop 
them very fine or, better, run them through a meat- 
chopper. Place a layer of the chopped fruit between 
two slices of bread. 

If desired, the bread may be toasted and softened 
with cream. It may then be served as a dessert. 

The dates may be soaked in cold water until the 
skins can be removed. They will then be more deli- 
cate. 

Egg Sandwich. 

See page 93. 

Club Sandwich I. 

Toast lightly (on one side only) two square slices 
of bread. Spread with butter and on one piece place 
a slice of chicken and a slice of tongue (or several 
slices of any desired cold meat). Season lightly, then 
cover thickly with shredded lettuce; garnish with 
mayonnaise dressing. Place the other slice of bread 
on the top (toasted side up). Serve with a knife and 
fork. 

Club Sandwich II. 

Thoroughly toast two square slices of bread. Spread 
with butter and soften them slightly with beef -juice, 
cream, boiling salted water, or stock. On one piece 
place a layer of tongue and chicken, or use all chicken 
or all beef. Cover with shredded lettuce, dot with 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 157 

mayonnaise dressing. Place the other piece of toast 
on the top and serve with a knife and fork. 

Roll Sandwiches. 

Choose a round, oblong, or horseshoe-shaped roll. 
Remove the top with a sharp knife. Then hollow out 
the soft centre with a fork. Toast lightly if desired 
and soften slightly with beef- juice, cream, or stock. 
Fill with any desired meat, celery, or lettuce. Gar- 
nish with lettuce, mayonnaise, or the hard-boiled yolk 
of egg pressed through a sieve. 

¥¥ 

SAUCES. 

White or Cream Sauce I. (Flour thickening). 
One-half cup (one gill) of milk. 
One-fourth level teaspoonful of salt. 
One level tablespoonful of flour. 
One level tablespoonful of butter. 

Rub the butter and flour together in a small sauce- 
pan until smooth, add the milk cold, and stir over 
the fire (in all directions) until it comes to a boil, 
add the salt and it is ready to serve. 

If not used immediately, stand it over hot water. 

White or Cream Sauce II. (thickened with Corn- 
starch or Arrowroot). 

One-half cup of milk. 
One-fourth level teaspoonful of salt. 
One level teaspoonful of cornstarch or arrowroot. 
A small piece of butter or one tablespoonful of 
cream. 



158 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Moisten the cornstarch or arrowroot with about one 
tablespoonful of the milk or until a thin paste. Heat 
the rest of the milk, and when hot add the cornstarch 
and stir until it thickens, add the salt, remove from 
the fire and add the cream or butter broken into small 
pieces. 

White or Cream Sauce III. (thickened with Yolks 
of Eggs and free from Starch). 

One-half cup of milk. 

Yolk of one egg. 

One-fourth level teaspoonful of salt. 

One teaspoonful of cream or a small piece of butter. 

Scald the milk. Beat the yolk until light, add the 
milk slowly, stirring all the while. Then stir over 
hot water until it thickens (being careful it does not 
boil, or it will have a curdled appearance), add the 
salt, remove from the fire and add the butter or cream. 
Serve immediately. 

White or Cream Sauce IV. (thickened with Irish 
Moss). 

One cup of milk. 
One-eighth cup of Irish moss. 

A small piece of butter or one tablespoonful of 
cream. 

Salt to taste. 

Soak the moss in lukewarm water for ten minutes, 
then wash each piece thoroughly in cold water, drain, 
and soak it in the milk for a half-hour. Then stir 
and slowly heat until the milk is steaming hot, then 
simmer about ten minutes. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 159 

Strain through a fine sieve, pressing through as 
much of the moss as possible. Reheat, season to taste. 
Add butter or cream after it has been removed from 
the fire. 

The Hghtly beaten yolk of one egg may be added 
before it is removed from the fire, being careful the 
sauce does not again boil, or the egg will have a 
curdled appearance. 

If this sauce is thicker than desired, add a little 
hot milk slowly. 

White or Cream Sauce for Vegetables. 

Use one-fourth cup of water in which the vegetable 
was cooked and one-fourth cup of milk. Then proceed 
as directed for any of the four preceding sauces. 

White or Cream Sauce for Chicken. 

Use half chicken stock and half milk, then follow 
preceding recipes for Sauces I., II., III., or IV. 

Sauce a la Bechamel. 

Make a cream sauce (I., II., III., or IV.), using 
half milk and half stock. Just before removing it 
from the fire stir in the lightly beaten yolk of an 
egg, being careful the sauce does not boil, or it will 
have a curdled appearance. 

One-half teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley may 
also be added. 

Onion Sauce. 

Cook onions until tender in boiling salted water as 
directed under Vegetables. Drain them and press 
through a fine sieve or serve with a small piece of 



i6o HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

butter. Add an equal quantity of cream sauce or 
brown sauce, reheat, and serve. 

Celery Sauce. 

Follow directions for Onion Sauce. 

Tomato Sauce. 

One-half cup of tomatoes stewed and strained. 
One level tablespoonful of flour. 
One level tablespoonful of butter. 
One-fourth level teaspoonful of salt. 

Stew the tomatoes as directed on page 140. Strain 
and measure one-half cup. Rub the flour and butter 
together in a small saucepan until smooth, add the 
strained tomatoes. Stir over the fire in all directions 
until it comes to a boil, add the salt, and it is ready 
to use. 

A few drops of onion- juice may be added if de- 
sired. 

Tomato sauce may also be thickened with arrow- 
root, cornstarch, or Irish moss, as directed under 
Cream Sauce H. and IV. 

Parsley Sauce. 

Add one teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley to 
one-half cup of cream sauce. 

Egg Sauce. 

Hard boil the yolk of an egg, press through a sieve 
and rub smooth, add gradually one-half cup of cream 
sauce, rubbing all the while, reheat over hot water 
and serve. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT i6i 

Or, cut the yolk into small blocks and add to the 
cream sauce just before serving. 



Brown Sauce. 

One tablespoonful of browned flour. 
One-half cup of stock. 
One-fourth level teaspoonful of salt. 
One level tablespoonful of butter. 

Place ordinary bread flour in a smooth baking- or 
frying-pan ; then place it in the oven or on top of the 
stove^ shake and turn the flour tmtil it becomes a 
golden brown. Rub the browned flour and butter to- 
gether in a small saucepan until smooth, add the stock 
and stir over the fire in all directions until it comes 
to a boil; add the salt. 

This may be varied by adding a few drops of beef 
extract or a few drops of onion- juice. 



Brown Sauce for Oysters. 

One level tablespoonful of browned flour. 
One level tablespoonful of butter. 
One-half cup of oyster stock. 
One-quarter level teaspoonful of salt. 

Chop two or three oysters finely with a silver knife, 
add one-fourth cup of cold water, a flavoring of celery, 
mace, or an allspice. Stir over the fire until it slowly 
comes to a boil, then simmer five minutes. Strain, use 
one-half cup of stock thus obtained, and follow pre- 
ceding recipe. 

II 



i62 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Brown Sauce for Chicken. 

Substitute one-fourth cup of milk and one-fourth 
cup of chicken stock for the one-half cup of stock, and 
proceed as directed under Brown Sauce. 

Mushroom Sauce. 

See Mushrooms in Cream Sauce and Brown Sauce, 
page 134. 

BREADS. 
White Bread. 

One-half cup of milk. 
One-half cup of boiling water. 
One-fourth ounce of compressed yeast-cake. 
One-half level teaspoonful of salt. 

Put the milk in a bowl and pour in the boiling water. 
When lukewarm, add the salt and yeast which you have 
dissolved in one tablespoonful of cool water. Add one 
cup of sifted white flour and beat well for several 
minutes, then continue adding more flour until thick 
enough to turn out and knead on a board. Knead 
until soft and elastic. Return the dough to the bowl, 
cover, and stand in a warm place (75° F.) about two 
hours. Then mould into the shape desired and place 
in a greased bread-pan. Cover and again stand in a 
warm place about one hour, or until it has doubled its 
bulk. Then brush the tops with cold water, prick in 
several places with a fork, and bake in a moderate 
oven about three-quarters of an hour. Turn from the 
pans and cool. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 163 

If divided into two loaves it will bake in a shorter 
time. 

Whole Wheat Loaf. 

One-half cup of milk. 
One-half cup of boiling water. 
One-fourth ounce of compressed yeast-cake. 
One-half level teaspoonful of salt. 

Put the milk in a bowl and pour in the boiling water. 
When lukewarm, add the salt and yeast which you have 
dissolved in one tablespoonful of cool water. Add one 
cup of whole wheat flour and beat thoroughly about 
five minutes. Cover and let stand in a warm place 
(75^ F.) about two and a half hours. Then continue 
adding whole wheat flour until thick enough to turn 
from the bowl and knead on a board. Knead until 
soft and elastic. Then mould into the shape desired 
and place in a greased bread-pan. Cover and stand 
again in a warm place until it doubles its bulk. This 
will take about an hour. Then brush the top with cold 
water, prick in several places with a fork, and bake 
in a slow oven about an hour. Turn from the pan 
and cool. 

Whole wheat bread requires a slower oven than 
the white bread. 

Bread Sticks. 

These may be made from either the white or whole 
wheat dough. Cut ofif a small portion at a time and 
roll out until it is about the diameter of a lead-pencil. 
Cut into lengths the size of your bread-stick pan. 
When filled cover and stand in a warm place (75° F.) 
about one-half hour. Brush with cold water and bake 
in a quick oven fifteen minutes, or until a golden brown. 



i64 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Quick Bread (Spoon Bread). 
One cup of milk. 
One-third cup of white cornmeal. 
Two eggs. 
A pinch of salt. 

Put the milk in a double boiler, and when hot sprin- 
kle in the cornmeal, stirring all the while until it be- 
comes a smooth mush. Remove from the fire and add 
the yolks of the eggs and salt ; mix well. Now stir in 
the well-beaten whites. Turn into a greased baking- 
dish and bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes or 
more. Serve immediately with a fork and eat with 
butter. 

This is a delicate bread and must be handled care- 
fully or it will fall. 

Mush-Bread Gems. 

Follow the above recipe, turning the mixture into 
greased gem-pans, and bake until they begin to leave 
the sides of the pans. Remove carefully with a limber 
knife and serve at once. 

These may also be served with cream and granu- 
lated sugar or a soft custard sauce. 

Quick Bread with Fruit. 

Cover the bottom of a baking-pan with chopped 
dates, raisins, or figs before turning in the spoon-bread 
batter, and finish as directed above. 

Popovers. 

Two eggs. 
One cup of milk. 
One cup of flour. 
A pinch of salt. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 165 

Slightly grease iron gem-pans with suet and place 
in the oven to heat. Break the eggs into a bowl and 
beat until light, add the milk and salt, mix, add the 
flour and beat well. Pour into the hot pans, half fill- 
ing each one. Bake in a quick oven about thirty min- 
utes. Serve hot. 

Whole Wheat Popovers. 

One cup of ice-cold water. 
One cup of whole wheat flour. 
A pinch of salt. 

Grease and heat iron gem-pans as above directed. 
Put the ice-cold water in a bowl, add the salt, and 
slowly sift in the flour, beating all the while. Pour 
into the hot pans and bake and serve the same as pop- 
overs. 

Graham-Flour Popovers. 

Substitute Graham flour for the whole wheat flour 
and proceed as directed above. 

German Puffs. 

Follow the recipe for Popovers, using three eggs 
instead of two. These may also be served as a dessert 
with cream and sugar or a custard sauce. 

Popover Toast. 

Any of the popovers or German puffs may be used. 
Either break or cut them into halves. Quickly toast 
the inside. Serve hot with butter or hot milk. 



i66 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

GLUTEN FOODS. 

Gluten Mush I. 

Have either boiling water, milk, or half of each in 
a double boiler ; add a pinch of salt, and slowly sprin- 
kle in enough gluten meal to make a thick batter, 
stirring all the while. Cook for one-half hour or more. 
Serve hot with cream or milk. A small piece of butter 
may also be added. 

Gluten Mush II. 

To each cup of mush stir in the well-beaten white 
of an tgg just before removing it from the fire. 

Gluten Gruel. 

Follow the above recipe for Mush, using less gluten. 

Gluten Popovers I. 

One scant cup of sifted gluten flour. 

One cup of water or milk. 

Two eggs. 

A pinch of salt. 

Beat the eggs until light, add the salt and milk, 
then the gluten, and beat thoroughly. Pour into hot 
greased gem-pans and bake in a quick oven about 
one-half hour. Serve hot. 

Gluten Popovers II. 

One scant cup of sifted gluten flour. 
One cup of ice-cold water. 
A pinch of salt. 

Add the salt to the water and slowly sprinkle in the 
gluten, beating all the while. Bake as above directed. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 167 

Gluten Gems. 
Two eggs. 

One-half cup of milk or water. 
One cup of gluten meal. 
One teaspoonful of baking-powder. 

Separate the eggs. Beat the yolks until light and 
add the milk, salt, and then the gluten. ^lix well. 
Stir in the well-beaten whites of eggs and the baking- 
powder. Bake in greased gem-pans one-half hour, 
or until they begin to leave the sides of the pan. Serve 
hot. 

Gluten Toast. 

With a fork break gluten popovers, gems, or biscuits 
into halves, thoroughly dry in a slow oven and lightly 
brown. Serve plain with butter or hot (not boiled) 
milk. 

Gluten Zv^ieback. 

See recipe for Zwieback, page 50. 



Gluten Wafers. 

One-half cup of milk or water. 
Enough gluten flour for a dough. 

Put the milk in a bowl and sift in the gluten until 
you have a dough. Knead carefully and roll very thin, 
cut into small rounds, and bake until a delicate brown 
on an ungreased tin in a moderate oven. Serve hot 
or cold with butter. 



i68 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Gluten Bread. 

One-half cup of milk. 

One-half cup of boiling water. 

Two eggs. 

One-fourth ounce compressed yeast-cake. 

Gluten flour. 

Pour the boiling water into the milk, and when luke- 
warm add the yeast-cake, which has been dissolved in 
a little water, then add enough gluten flour to make a 
thin batter, and beat well. Add the slightly beaten 
yolks and well-beaten whites of eggs. Then enough 
flour to make a dough; do not knead, but turn into 
a greased bread-pan. Cover and stand in a warm 
place (75° F.) until it doubles its bulk. Bake in a 
moderate oven one hour. 

Gluten Mush Bread. 

One cup of gluten mush. 
Two eggs. 

Make the mush as directed, then add the yolks of 
eggs and mix well. Stir in the well-beaten whites 
and bake in greased gem- or popover-pans about 
twenty minutes, or until a light brown. Serve imme- 
diately and carefully, or they will fall. 

Gluten Biscuits. 

Make a dough as for the bread, moulding it into 
biscuits, and bake a shorter time in gem- or popover- 
pans. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 169 

Gluten Dessert. 

Substitute gluten bread for white bread and follow 
directions for making French toast, omitting the sugar. 
If allowed, saccharin may be used. 

COOKED FRUITS. 
Apple Sauce. 

Select four tart apples. Cut them into eighths, pare 
and core. Then throw them into cold water until you 
have them all prepared, or they will turn dark. Drain 
and put them in a saucepan; just cover the bottom of 
the pan with cold water. Cover and cook quickly until 
tender (five or ten minutes). Rub through a colander. 

Sweeten to taste and it is ready for use. Serve hot 
or cold. 

Be careful not to get it too sweet. 

If the apples are poor in flavor, cook with the fruit 
a little cinnamon or grated yellow rind of one-fourth 
of a lemon. 

Stewed Apples. 

Select four tart apples. Wash, cut them into quar- 
ters, pare and core, and throw them into cold water. 
Make a syrup by adding two tablespoonfuls of sugar to 
one cup of boiling water, stir until dissolved, and when 
boiling add the apples. Simmer very gently until 
tender or they will not remain whole. Dish carefully 
and serve cold. 

One teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a little cinnamon, 
or the grated yellow rind of one-fourth of a lemon may 
be added if desired. 



lyo HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Baked Apples I. 

Select sound, tart apples. Wash them and remove 
all the core with an apple-corer or sharp knife. Place 
them in a baking-dish. Partly fill with granulated 
sugar (for a medium-sized apple allow one teaspoonful 
of sugar). Cover the bottom of the dish with boiling 
water (one-fourth inch deep). Bake in a hot oven 
until tender, basting several times. If all the water 
evaporates, add more. Serve hot or cold with cream. 

A little cinnamon may be added with the sugar if 
desired. 

The time of baking varies, according to the variety, 
from one-half hour to an hour and a half. 

If the skin is objectionable, remove it either before 
or after cooking. 

Baked Apples II. 

Peel and core a tart apple, place in a small baking- 
dish, pour over one cup of cold water, dust with granu- 
lated sugar. Cover the pan closely and bake in a 
moderate oven until tender. Serve hot or cold. 

Steamed Apples I. 

Select tart apples. Remove skins and cores. Cut 
into thick slices, and partly fill a granite or earthen- 
ware baking-dish, just cover the bottom of the dish 
with cold water. Cover tightly and bake in a quick 
oven fifteen minutes, or until very tender. Sweeten 
with granulated sugar and serve hot or sold. 

Steamed Apples II. 

Select four tart apples of uniform size. Remove the 
cores and pare them. Throw them into cold water 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 171 

while you make a syrup by adding two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar to a cup of boiling water. Bring to a boil, 
and stand the apples in the bottom of the saucepan. 
Cover and allow the apples to steam very slowly until 
tender. Dish carefully and serve cold. 

A teaspoonful of currant-jelly may be placed in the 
core of each apple by way of variety. 

Stevved Peaches. 

Select four peaches. Wash in cold water, cut into 
halves, remove the stone and skins. Throw them into 
cold water until you have them all ready. Then finish 
as directed for Stewed Apples. 

Peach Sauce. 

Pare four peaches. Cut them into slices and place 
them in a saucepan with just enough cold water to 
cover the bottom of the pan. Cover and cook quickly 
until tender (about five minutes). Remove from the 
fire and sweeten to taste. Serve hot or cold with 
toasted crackers, etc. 

Stewed Dates. 

Soak the dates in warm water for ten minutes to 
soften the dust and dirt on the outside. Then wash 
them carefully with the fingers and rinse them in cold 
water. Stone them, then cover with cold water and 
soak overnight. In the morning drain them and save 
the water. Slip ofif the skins, return them to the water, 
and stew gently until tender; this will take from five 
to ten minutes. 

If desired, a few drops of lemon-juice may be added. 
Serve with toasted crackers. 



172 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Blackberry Flummery or Mush. 

One cup of blackberries. 

One cup of water. 

One even teaspoonful of cornstarch. 

Sugar to taste. 

Put the blackberries and cold water in a saucepan, 
bring to a boil, then simmer until tender (about ten 
minutes). Press through a colander to avoid the seeds 
and cores. Sweeten to taste. Reheat, and when boil- 
ing stir in the cornstarch, which has been mixed with 
a little cold water. When thick (about two minutes) 
turn out to cool and serve with cream. 

Stewed Prunes. 

Soak the prunes in lukewarm water for about ten 
minutes to soften the dust and dirt on the outside. 
Then wash them carefully with the fingers and rinse 
in cold water. Cover with cold water and soak over- 
night, or at least six hours. In the morning drain; 
put in a saucepan, just cover with fresh cold water. 
Bring to a boil, then simmer gently until tender. 

If desired sweetened, add sugar to taste about ten 
minutes before removing from the fire. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Select juicy oranges, wash and dry them. Now 
grate off the yellow rind from one-fourth of them. 
Roll the oranges until very soft. Cut into halves and 
squeeze out all the juice with a lemon-squeezer. Meas- 
ure the juice and allow an equal quantity of granulated 
sugar. Add the yellow rind to the juice, and stir 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 173 

them over the fire until they begin to boil. Add the 
sugar, stir until it is dissolved, then cook until it 
begins to jelly (test by putting a little on a cold 
saucer). Turn into glasses and seal. Serve with 
toasted crackers, etc. 



Pineapple Marmalade. 

Remove all the skin and eyes from juicy pineapples. 
Cut into slices, rejecting the core. Measure the pine- 
apple and allow an equal quantity of sugar. Put the 
pineapple in a saucepan and cook slowly until trans- 
parent; bring to a boil, add the sugar and stir until 
it is dissolved. Cook until it begins to jelly (test by 
putting a little on a cold saucer). Turn into glasses 
and seal. Serve with toasted crackers. 



Grape- Juice I. (Quick Method). 

Preferably select a dark grape, such as the Concord 
variety. Wash in cold water, drain and pick them from 
their stems, barely cover with cold water, bring to a 
boil, and simmer about five minutes. Let the juice 
drip from a flannel or cheese-cloth bag. Serve cold. 

If desired sweetened, add sugar to taste. 

Grape- Juice II. (Bottled). 

Follow above recipe, measure the juice, and for each 
four cups of juice allow one cup of sugar. Bring the 
juice to a boil, add the sugar, stir until dissolved. 
Boil from three to five minutes. Pour into sterilized 
bottles (see foot-note, page 21) and cork firmly. 



174 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

DESSERTS. 

Junkets. 

The recipes given below call for the junket or 
rennet tablets, as it is a convenient form, but liquid 
rennet may be substituted with the same results (using 
the amount required as indicated on the bottle). 

All the junkets are palatable made without flavoring, 
but when desired a few drops may be added with the 
sugar. Or vary the flavor with a grating of nutmeg 
or large raisins cut into small pieces as directed under 
Plain Junket I. 

Plain Junket I. 

One cup of milk. 

One- fourth junket tablet. 

Dissolve the piece of the junket tablet in a teaspoon- 
ful of cold water (or use liquid rennet). Heat the 
milk to blood heat (or 98° F.). Stir in the dissolved 
rennet. Pour into the serving dish or cup and stand 
in a warm place until congealed. Serve cold with 
cream and a little granulated sugar dusted over the 
top. 

To vary the flavor, a grating of nutmeg or three 
large raisins (cut into pieces) may be added to the 
milk before heating, and strained out before adding 
the junket or rennet. 

Plain Junket II. (with White of Egg). 

The white of one tgg may be beaten to a froth and 
added to the milk before it is heated ; then finish, and 
serve as directed in preceding recipe. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 175 

Junket Dessert. 

One cup of milk. 

One-fourth junket tablet. 

One tablespoonful of sugar. 

A few drops of flavoring (if desired). 

Follow the preceding recipe for Plain Junket (either 
with or without the white of ^gg) , adding the sugar 
and flavoring (if used) to the milk just before stir- 
ring in the rennet. Serve cold with cream. 

Custard Junket I. 

One cup of milk. 

One tablespoonful of sugar. 

One egg. 

One-fourth junket or rennet tablet. 

Cover the one-fourth tablet with one teaspoonful of 
cold water. Beat the egg to a froth, add the milk, 
and stir over hot water until it slightly thickens, then 
cool to blood heat (about 98° F.). Add the sugar 
and the dissolved tablet. Pour into a serving dish or 
cups. Stand in a warm place until congealed, then 
cool. Serve with plain or whipped cream. 

Custard Junket II. (with Meringue). 

Make a cup of custard junket as directed in pre- 
ceding recipe, using the yolk only instead of the whole 
egg. Use the white for the meringue, made as fol- 
lows : 

Beat the white of egg to a froth, add gradually one 
teaspoonful of powdered sugar, beat until stifle. Drop 
by spoonfuls (or fancy shapes) on boiling water in 



176 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

a deep saucepan. Cover the pan closely, remove from 
the fire, and steam five minutes. Remove them (care- 
fully drained) to a cool plate; when cold heap or 
arrange over the junket. 

Or, the ineringiie may be placed on an ordinary tin 
plate (that has been dipped in cold water and drained), 
dusted lightly with powdered sugar, and placed in an 
oven about two minutes, or until a golden brown. 

Cocoa Junket. 

One teaspoonful of cocoa. 
One tablespoonful of sugar. 
Two tablespoonfuls of water. 
One- fourth junket or rennet tablet. 
Three-fourths cup of milk. 

Moisten the cocoa with the water and bring to a 
boil (in a small saucepan). Add the milk cold and bring 
to 98° F., or blood heat. Add sugar and the dis- 
solved tablet. Pour at once into a serving-dish, stand 
in a warm place until congealed. 

Serve cold with plain or whipped cream. This may 
also be served with ineringite as directed in preceding 
recipe. 

Eggnog Junket. 

One Qgg. 

One cup of milk. 

One teaspoonful of brandy or one tablespoonful of 
wine. 

One tablespoonful of sugar. 

One-fourth junket tablet or rennet. 

Separate the Qgg] beat the white to a froth; add 
the yolk and beat again. Add the milk; stir well 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 177 

and strain. Add the sugar. Heat to a temperature of 
98° F. or blood heat. Add the wine or brandy and the 
dissolved tablet (or liquid rennet) ; stand in a warm 
place until congealed. Serve cold. 

This may also be served with plain or whipped 
cream. A grating of nutmeg can also be dusted over 
the top. 

Junket with Cream. 

One-fourth cup of cream. 
Three-fourths cup of milk. 
One tablespoonful of sugar. 
One-fourth junket or rennet tablet. 

Dissolve the one-fourth tablet in one teaspoonful 
of cold water. Bring the milk and cream to blood heat 
or 98° F. Stir in the sugar and dissolved tablet. 
Stand in a warm place until congealed. Serve cold. 



Arrowroot Pudding I. 

One cup of milk. 

One egg. 

One tablespoonful of sugar. 

One tablespoonful of arrowroot. 

Bring the milk to a boil, moisten the arrowroot with 
a little cold water or milk, pour into the milk and stir 
and cook five minutes. Add the yolk lightly beaten, 
then stir in the well-beaten white, cook just a moment, 
remove from the fire, and add the sugar. Pour into 
a mould or serving-dish. 

Serve cold with cream or a soft custard sauce. 
12 



178 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Arrowroot Pudding II. (Baked). 

Follow preceding recipe, but bake in a moderate 
oven from five to ten minutes. 

Arrowroot Pudding III. 

Follow either of the preceding recipes, adding the 
tgg beaten together until light instead of separately. 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange I. 

One-fourth cup of Irish moss. 

One pint of milk. 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Soak the moss in lukewarm water for ten minutes, 
then wash each piece separately and thoroughly in cold 
water. Drain and cover it with the milk. Let it soak 
a half-hour, then stir and slowly heat until the milk 
is steaming hot, then simmer ten minutes. Strain 
through a fine sieve, pressing through as much of 
the moss as possible. Stir in the sugar, pour into 
moulds or a serving-dish to form a jelly. Serve cold 
with cream. 

If desired, the sugar may be omitted or sprinkled 
over the top at serving-time. 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange II. (with Egg). 

Following preceding recipe, and when ready to pour 
into the moulds, stir in the well-beaten white of one 
or two eggs. Reheat just a moment, then pour into 
moulds or a dish and serve as above directed. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 179 

Lemon-Jelly (Irish Moss). 

One-fourth cup of Irish moss. 

One pint of water. 

Four tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Four tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice. 

A few gratings of the yellow rind of a lemon. 

Soak the moss in lukewarm water ten minutes, then 
wash each piece thoroughly in cold water. Drain and 
soak in the pint of water a half-hour, add the yellow 
rind of a lemon. Then stir and slowly heat until the 
water is steaming hot, then simmer about ten minutes. 
Strain through a fine sieve, pressing through as much 
of the moss as possible. Stir in the sugar and lemon- 
juice and pour into moulds or a dish to form a jelly. 
Serve cold. 

¥¥ 

CUSTARDS. 

Soft Custard. 

One-half cup of milk. 

Yolk of one egg. 

One level tablespoonful of sugar. 

Beat the yolk until light, add the sugar and beat 
again. Heat the milk until it begins to steam, pour 
it slowly into the egg and sugar, beating all the while. 
Cook over hot water or in a double boiler, stirring 
all the while until it is the consistency of rich cream. 
Then pour from one vessel to another several times. 
Serve cold with zwieback, sponge-cake, or as a sauce. 



i8o HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

If a stimulant is ordered, add a teaspoonful of sherry 
wine just before serving. 

To vary the flavor add a grating of nutmeg or soak 
three large raisins (which have been washed and cut 
into small pieces and seeds removed) in the milk for 
ten minutes, then make the custard and strain them out 
before serving. 

French Custard. 

Make a half-cup of soft custard as directed in pre- 
ceding recipe. Use the white of egg for a meringue 
made as follows : 

Beat the white of egg to a froth, add gradually 
one teaspoonful of powdered sugar, beat until stiff. 
Drop by spoonfuls (or fancy shapes) on boiling water 
in a deep saucepan. Cover the pan closely. Remove 
the pan from the fire and steam five minutes. Re- 
move them (carefully drained) to a cool plate. When 
cold float them on the custard. 

Or, the meringue may be placed on an ordinary tin 
plate (that has been dipped in cold water and drained). 
Dust lightly with powdered sugar and place in an 
oven (about two minutes, or until a golden brown). 

Cup Custards I. (Baked). 

One egg. 

One cup of milk. 

One tablespoonful of granulated sugar. 

Grating of nutmeg. 

Beat the egg until light, add the sugar and nutmeg, 
beat again, add the milk, and when well mixed pour 
into one or two custard-cups. Stand them in a pan 
partly filled with boiling water. Bake in a moderate 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT i8i 

oven until firm (about twenty minutes). Serve cold 
in the cups in which they were cooked. 

Test by running a knife down the centre of one. 
If it comes out clear they are sufficiently cooked. 
If overdone they will be watery and have a curdled 
appearance. 

Cup Custards II. (Steamed). 

]\Iake the custards according to the preceding recipe, 
and when stood in a pan partly filled with boiling water, 
cover the pan closely and cook on top of the stove, 
steaming rather slowly until a custard has formed. 

Chocolate Custard. 
Moisten a tablespoonful of grated chocolate with 
a little cold milk, pour into a cup of hot milk, stir 
and cook ten minutes, then finish as directed under 
Soft or Cup Custard, using one egg and one table- 
spoonful of sugar. 

Toasted Buns (with Soft Custard Sauce). 

Choose plain buns, preferably a day or so old. Cut 
them into slices and toast until crisp and a golden 
brown. Pour over and around them a soft custard 
sauce. Serve hot or cold. Whipped cream heaped 
lightly over the top is an addition. 

Sponge-cake may be substituted for the buns. 

Floating Island. 

One cup of milk. 

One egg. 

One-half teaspoonful of cornstarch. 

One tablespoonful of sugar. 

A grating of nutmeg or a few drops of flavoring. 



i82 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Scald the milk in a double boiler or over hot water. 
Beat the yolk until light. Mix the sugar and corn- 
starch together, add them to the yolk ; now pour in the 
scalded milk, stirring all the while. Return it to the 
double boiler and stir until it thickens. Add a grating 
of nutmeg, a teaspoonful of sherry wine, or a few 
drops of any desired flavoring. Pour into a serving- 
dish. 

Make a meringue with the white of egg as directed 
under French Custard. When cold float on top of 
the custard. 

By way of variety place a little jelly (such as cur- 
rant) on top of each " tgg island." 



French Toast (Egg Toast). 

Three small slices of bread. 
Two tablespoonfuls of milk. 
One tgg. 
A pinch of salt. 

Toast the bread a golden brown. Beat the egg until 
light. Add the milk and salt. Cover the toast with 
this mixture and let it soak about five minutes, or 
until it is wet through and through. Have a little 
water boiling in a large saucepan; having placed in 
the centre a small block of wood or upended custard- 
cup. Now rest a saucer on the block or cup and place 
the toast on it. Cover the saucepan closely and steam 
three or five minutes. Serve immediately with granu- 
lated sugar sprinkled over it. A small piece of butter 
may also be added. 

Or J serve with lemon-butter or a jelly. 



SICK AXD CONVALESCENT 183 

Bread Pudding I. 

One-half cup of pieces of stale bread or toast. 

One cup of milk. 

One egg. 

One tablespoonful of sugar. 

Soak the bread in the milk for fifteen minutes. 
Beat the egg until light, add the sugar, milk, and bread. 
Mix well and pour into a small baking-dish and bake 
in a moderate oven fifteen minutes, or until a custard 
is formed. Serve hot or cold with cream. 

By way of variety the grated yellow rind of one- 
eighth of a lemon or a grating of nutmeg may be added 
with the sugar. 

This pudding may be steamed instead of baked, as 
directed under Cup Custard. 



Bread Pudding II. (v^ith Meringue). 

Follow the above recipe, omitting the white of egg 
until the pudding is baked. Then beat it to a stiff 
froth, heap it over the top of the pudding, dust with 
powdered sugar, and brown in a quick oven (about 
two minutes). 

Or^ make the ineringue as directed under French 
Custard, and heap it on the pudding after it is cooked. 

Steamed Rice with Cream. 

One-half cup of rice. 
One-eighth teaspoonful of salt. 
One pint of boiling water or milk. 



i84 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Wash the rice thoroughly in cold water, drain and 
put it in the upper half of a double boiler with the 
salt and hot water, hot milk, or half of each. Cook 
continuously for one hour. Do not stir. 

Serve hot or cold with plain or whipped cream. If 
desired, sprinkle the top with granulated sugar just 
before serving. 

To change the flavor add four or six large raisins 
(cut into halves and free from seeds) when the rice is 
first put on the fire. Remove the raisins (if desired) 
before serving. 

07% add a grating of nutmeg. 

Old-Fashioned Rice Pudding. 

One tablespoonful of rice. 

One tablespoonful of sugar. 

One tablespoonful of seedless raisins. 

One pint of milk. 

A grating of nutmeg. 

Wash the rice and cut the raisins into several pieces. 
Then put all into a double boiler. Cover and cook an 
hour or more. Stir frequently to make it creamy. 
Pour into a baking-dish and bake until the top is 
lightly browned. Serve cold. 

Rice Pudding. 

One-half cup of boiled rice. 

One-half cup of milk. 

One Qgg. 

One tablespoonful of sugar. 

Grated yellow rind of one-eighth of a lemon. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT i8 



Beat the egg until light, add the lemon-peel and 
sugar. Then add the rice and milk. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven twenty minutes, or until a custard is formed. 
Serve cold. 

Rice Meringue. 

Follow preceding recipe, omitting the white of egg 
until the pudding is baked. Then beat the white to 
a froth, add gradually one teaspoonful of powdered 
sugar, beating all the while until quite stiff. Heap 
over the top of the pudding. Dust with sugar and 
return it to the oven to brown (about two minutes). 

Or, make the meringue as directed under French 
Custard. 

Rice Custards I. 

One-quarter cup of boiled rice. 

One-half cup of milk. 

One egg. 

One tablespoonful of sugar. 

Grated yellow rind of one-eighth of a lemon. 

Cook the boiled rice and yellow rind of lemon in the 
milk for five minutes or more. Press all through a 
sieve, add the yolk of egg lightly beaten and stir over 
the fire a few minutes (but do not let it boil). Re- 
move from the fire, add the sugar, and pour slowly 
into the well-beaten white of egg, beating all the while. 
Serve cold in glass cups with plain or whipped cream. 



Rice Custards II. (White). 

Follow preceding recipe, omitting the yolk of egg. 



i86 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Rice Custards III. (with Flaked Rice). 

Stir into a half-cup of hot milk enough flaked rice 
to make a mush. Cook over hot water or in a double 
boiler ten minutes. Add the lightly beaten yolk of one 
egg and one tablespoonful of sugar. Remove from 
the fire and pour slowly into the well-beaten white 
of one egg, beating all the while. Serve cold in glass 
cups with cream or a soft custard sauce. 

Rice Balls. 

One-half cup of boiled or steamed rice. 
One apple or peach. 

Wring out in cold water two pieces of gauze or 
cheese-cloth (five inches square). Put in the centre 
of each sufficient rice to make a round the size of a 
small saucer and about one-fourth inch in thickness. 
Place in the centre a few slices of peach or apple, dust 
with granulated sugar, and gather the corners of the 
cloth together and hold in the shape of a ball. Tie 
tightly, throw into boiling water (the water in which 
the rice was cooked or plain water). Boil fifteen min- 
utes. Remove the cloths and serve hot with cream, 
apple, peach, or a soft custard sauce. 

These balls may also be filled with finely chopped 
seedless raisins or half apple and half raisins. 

Rice Charlotte. 

One cup of milk. 

One and one-half tablespoonfuls of rice flour. 

White of one egg. 

Six raisins. 

One tablespoonful of sugar. 



SICK AXD COXVALESCEXT 187 

Cut the raisins into small pieces, remove seeds, and 
add the milk cold. Cook in a double boiler twenty 
minutes. Strain, bring to a boil, and pour in the rice 
flour, which has been moistened with a little cold water. 
Stir until it thickens (about five minutes). Remove 
from the fire, add the sugar and pour into the well- 
beaten white of egg, beating all the while. Serve cold 
in glass cups or saucers with cream or a soft custard 
sauce. 

If desired, the yolk of egg may be added to the 
charlotte a few minutes before it is removed from the 
fire. 

Farina Custards. 

Stir into a half-cup of hot milk enough farina to 
make a mush. Cook over hot water or in a double 
boiler one-half hour. Add the lightly beaten yolk of 
one tgg and one tablespoonful of sugar. Remove from 
the fire and pour slowly into the well-beaten white 
of one tgg, beating all the while. Serve cold with 
cream or a soft custard sauce. 

To give the custard a zest add the grated yellow rind 
of one-eighth of a lemon when adding the farina. 

Baked Farina Pudding. 

Follow preceding recipe. Turn into a pudding-dish 
and bake ten minutes. Serve hot or cold. 

Rotha Gritza. 

Two tablespoonfuls of currant- jelly. 

One tablespoonful of sugar. 

One and one-half tablespoonfuls of rice flour. 

One cup of boiling water. 

Six almonds. 



i88 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Pound or grind the blanched almonds to a paste and 
add them to the jelly, add the water. Stir until dis- 
solved. Bring to a boil, stir in the rice flour (which 
has been moistened with a little cold water). Cook 
about five minutes. Remove from the fire and add 
the sugar. Pour into moulds or glass cups and serve 
cold with plain or whipped cream. 

Rotha Gritza Charlotte. 

Follow the above recipe, stirring in the well-beaten 
white of one egg just before it is removed from the 
fire. 

Blanc Mange I. 

One cup of milk. 

One egg. 

One tablespoonful of cornstarch. 

One tablespoonful of sugar. 

Six large raisins. 

Wash the raisins and cut them into halves ; remove 
seeds. Put them in a double boiler with the cold milk 
and steam them twenty minutes. Strain out the raisins, 
bring the milk to a boil, and add the cornstarch (which 
has been moistened with a little cold water). Stir 
until it thickens. Add the yolk, lightly beaten, cook 
just a moment, remove from the fire, add the sugar, 
and pour into the well-beaten white of egg, beating 
all the while. Serve cold with a cream or custard 
sauce. 

The raisins may be omitted and served plain, or add 
one teaspoonful of sherry wine. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 189 

Blanc Mange II. 

To make a white blanc mange follow preceding 
recipe, omitting the yolk of egg. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

One cup of milk. 

White of one egg. 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

One and one-half tablespoonfuls of cornstarch. 

One ounce of chocolate. 

Melt the chocolate in a saucepan over hot water, 
add the milk hot, then moisten the cornstarch with a 
little cold milk and add it to the hot milk, stirring all 
the while until it thickens. Add the sugar and stir 
in the well-beaten white of egg after it is removed 
from the fire. Pour into a mould or serving-dish. 
Serve cold with plain or whipped cream. 

Water may be substituted for the milk if desired. 

Lemon Pudding I. 

One cup of water. 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

One and one-half tablespoonfuls of cornstarch. 

One egg. 

Juice and grated yellow rind of one-half of a lemon. 

Grate off the yellow rind of the lemon into the 
water. Bring to a boil, then add the cornstarch (which 
has been moistened with a little cold water). Stir 
until it thickens. Beat the yolk until light, add to 
the pudding, and stir over the fire a few minutes (but 
do not allow it to boil). Remove from the fire and 



I90 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

pour into a serving dish. Serve cold with toasted 
crackers, etc. 

Lemon Pudding II. (with Meringue). 

Follow preceding recipe, omitting the white of tgg, 
which use for a ineringue made as directed under 
French Custard (page i8o). 

Wine Pudding. 

Substitute one tablespoonful of sherry wine for the 
lemon- juice and follow the preceding recipe, either with 
or without the meringue. 

Egg Cream or Lemon-Butter. 

Two eggs. 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Juice and yellow rind of one-half of a lemon. 

Separate the eggs, beat the yolks until light, add 
the sugar gradually, then the grated yellow rind and 
lemon- juice. Stir slowly over hot water until it be- 
gins to thicken. Then add the well-beaten whites 
and stir about two minutes longer, or until it resembles 
a thick cream. Remove from the fire and pour into 
a serving-dish. Serve cold with toasted crackers, etc. 

Chocolate Cream. 
Make the same as Egg Chocolate (page 47). 

Tapioca-Jelly I. 

Two tablespoonfuls of granulated tapioca. 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

One tablespoonful of sherry wine. 

White of one egg. 

Yellow rind of one-fourth of a lemon. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 191 

Put the tapioca and grated yellow rind of lemon in 
a saucepan, add the cold water slowly. Stir in all 
directions over the fire until it boils and is clear (about 
five minutes). Remove from the fire and add sugar 
and sherry wine. Pour immediately into the well- 
beaten white of egg, beating all the while. Serve cold 
with cream or a teaspoonful of egg cream or lemon- 
butter. 

Tapioca-Jelly II. 

If a stimulant is not desired, substitute a teaspoonful 
of lemon-juice instead of the wine. 

Tapioca Charlotte. 

Substitute one cup of milk for the water and follow 
directions for making Tapioca- Jelly I. The wine may 
be omitted or served in the sauce, but do not use 
lemon- juice when using milk. 

Baked Tapioca Pudding I. 

One-half cup of tapioca. 

Two eggs. 

A pinch of salt. 

One pint of milk. 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Use pearl tapioca, wash it in cold water. Soak it 
in the milk two hours. Cook in a double boiler until 
the tapioca is transparent (about two hours). Beat 
the eggs until light. Stir in the tapioca, salt, milk, and 
sugar. Mix well. Pour into a baking-dish and bake 
in a moderate oven about fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Serve hot or cold with cream. 



192 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Baked Tapioca Pudding II. (with Meringue). 

Follow preceding recipe, omitting the whites of eggs^ 
from the pudding. When baked make the meringue 
as directed under French Custard (page i8o). 

Quick Tapioca Pudding. 

Substitute granulated tapioca for the pearl and fol- 
low either of the preceding recipes, except that fifteen 
minutes will be sufficient for the soaking and it will 
not require cooking before it is baked. 

Tapioca and Currant- Jelly I. 

Two tablespoonfuls of currant- jelly. 
Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Two tablespoonfuls of granulated tapioca. 
One cup of water. 

Put the tapioca in a saucepan, slowly add the water 
cold. Stir in all directions over the fire until it boils 
and is clear (about five minutes). Add the currant- 
jelly, stir until dissolved. Remove from the fire, add 
the sugar and pour into the serving dish. Serve cold 
with plain or whipped cream. 

Tapioca and Currant- Jelly 'II. 

Follow preceding recipe, using double the quantity 
of currant- jelly, and just before removing it from the 
fire stir in the well-beaten white of one Qgg. 

H desired, a teaspoonful of sherry wine or French 
brandy may also be added. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 193 

Sago and Currant-Jelly. 

Two tablespoonfuls of currant- jelly. 

Two tablespoonfuls of sago. 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

One cup of water. ' 

Cover the sago with the water and let it soak a half- 
hour or more. Cook in a double boiler or over hot 
water until transparent, add the currant- jelly, stir until 
dissolved, remove from the fire, add the sugar, and 
pour into the serving dish. Serve cold with cream. 

SOUFFLES. 

Plain Souffle I. 
One Ggg. 

One teaspoonful of sugar. 
One teaspoonful of lemon- juice or sherry wine. 

Have a little water boiling in a large covered sauce- 
pan. Separate the egg, beat the white to a froth, beat 
the yolk lightly, add the sugar slowly and the flavoring. 
Stir into the well-beaten white of egg and mix thor- 
oughly. Heap into an egg-cup or dainty bowl. Place 
the bowl in the saucepan and cover the pan closely. 
Remove all from the fire and let stand five minutes. 
Serve at once. 

Plain Souffle II. 

One-half cup of milk. 

Two eggs. 

One tablespoonful of flour. 

One-half tablespoonful of cornstarch. 
13 



194 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Mix the flour and cornstarch in a small saucepan, 
then stir in the cold milk. Take to the fire and stir in 
all directions until it boils and you have a thick paste. 
Remove from the fire, add the yolks and then well- 
beaten whites. Partly fill buttered custard-cups. 
Stand them in boiling water and bake about fifteen 
minutes. Serve immediately with a soft custard 
sauce flavored with sherry wine, or dust the souffle 
with granulated sugar and serve with cream. 

Or, steam the souifle if an oven is not available, — 
viz., have some water boiling in a large saucepan 
(with tight-fitting cover), put in the cups (being care- 
ful the water is lower), cover and keep the water a 
little below boiling. Let steam fifteen minutes. Serve 
immediately. 

Indian-Meal Souffle. 

One and one-half tablespoonfuls of white cornmeal. 
One-half cup of milk. 
Two eggs. 

Put the meal in a saucepan and stir in the cold 
milk. Stir in all directions over the fire until it boils, 
then cook thirty minutes over hot water. Remove 
from the fire, add the yolks, then stir in the well- 
beaten whites. Partly fill buttered custard-cups, stand 
them in boiling water and bake about fifteen minutes. 
Serve immediately with cream. If desired, dust with 
sugar. 

The souffle may also be steamed as directed in pre- 
ceding recipe. 

Peach Souffle. 

Three ripe peaches. 

One tablespoonful of sugar. 

White of one tgg. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 195 

Select solid but ripe peaches and of good flavor. 
Pare and remove the stones. Place in a bowl and mash 
fine with a silver fork, add the sugar and white of 
Qgg beaten to a stiff froth. Mix well and bake in a 
quick oven ten minutes. Serve at once. 

This may also be steamed as directed under Plain 
Souffle. 

Prune Souffle. 

One-half cup of stewed prunes. 
White of one egg. 

Press all but the skins and stones of the prunes 
through a sieve. Whip the w^hite of egg to a froth 
and mix wnth the prunes. Bake in a quick oven ten 
minutes. Serve immediately. 

Banana Souffle. 

Mash one ripe banana with a silver fork. Add one 
tablespoonful of granulated sugar and the well-beaten 
white of one egg. Bake in a quick oven ten minutes. 
Serve immediately with cream. 

If desired, the sugar may be omitted and added 
when served. One tablespoonful of sherry wine may 
be added after the sugar. 

This may also be steamed as directed under Plain 
Souffle. 

Apple Betty. 

Select tart apples. Wash, quarter, pare, and core 
them. Cut into thick slices and cover the bottom of 
a baking-dish. Dust with granulated sugar and a 
little cinnamon. Add a layer of toast or stale bread 
broken into small pieces. Repeat these layers until 
the dish is full, leaving the last layer toast or bread. 



196 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Baste with boiling' water. Cover and cook in a hot 
oven until the apples are very tender. Serve hot or 
cold with cream. 

Apple Charlotte. 

One-half cup of apple-sauce. 
White of one egg. 

Make the sauce as directed on page 169. Beat the 
white to a stiff froth. Bring the sauce to a boil and 
pour over the egg, beating all the while. Serve cold 
with plain or whipped cream. 

This may also be baked in a hot oven for five min- 
utes and then served at once. 

Apple Float. 

One ripe apple. 

White of one egg. 

One tablespoonful of powdered sugar. 

Four tablespoonfuls of cream. 

Wash the apple. Remove the core and skin. Place 
in cold water. Whip the white of egg to a froth, add 
the sugar slowly, beating all the while. Grate the 
apple. Mix it with the egg and beat well. Pour the 
cream into a serving dish and float the apple on it. 
Serve at once. 

Apples and Tapioca. 

Soak pearl tapioca in cold water a half-hour or 
more (allowing four times as much water as tapioca), 
then cook it in a double boiler until transparent. Add 
an equal quantity of freshly made apple-sauce un- 
sweetened. Cook in the double boiler ten minutes. 
Sweeten to taste and serve very cold. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 197 

If granulated tapioca is used, let it soak fifteen min- 
utes in cold water, using four parts of water to one of 
tapioca; then pour it around a cored apple and finish 
as above directed. 

Peaches and Tapioca. 

Substitute peach-sauce for the apple-sauce and fol- 
low preceding recipe. 

Apples and Sago. 

Substitute sago for the pearl tapioca and follow the 
recipe for Apples and Tapioca. 

Baked Apples and Sago. 

Substitute sago for the pearl tapioca and follow the 
recipe for Baked Apples and Tapioca. 

Cut Peaches. 

Select solid ripe peaches. Immediately before 
serving, with a silver knife cut them into halves, re- 
move stones, and pare. Cut into slices and serve on 
a dainty plate or saucer. Add sugar at the table. If 
they stand they will, turn brown and lose their fresh 
flavor. 

Or, cut the peaches into halves, remove stone, and 
pare, then roll each half in granulated sugar and serve 
immediately. 

Peach Cream. 

Three ripe peaches. 

One tablespoonful of granulated sugar. 

White of one ^gg. 



198 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Select solid but ripe peaches and of a good flavor. 
Pare and remove the stones. Place in a bowl and 
mash fine with a silver fork, add the sugar and white 
of egg which has been whipped to a stiff froth. Mix 
well and beat again. Serve at once, with or without 
a few sliced peaches, German puff, or popover, etc. 

Baked Apples I. 

See page 170. 

Baked Apples II. (with Rice). 

Select a tart apple. Remove the core and place it 
in a baking-dish. Pour boiled rice around it, also 
filling the centre. Sprinkle with sugar and baste with 
a little boiling water. Cover and bake until the apple 
is tender. Serve warm with cream. 

If desired, the apple may be pared and quartered 
before baking. It will then cook in a much shorter 
time. 

Baked Apples III. (with Tapioca). 

If pearl tapioca is used, soak it in cold water at 
least a half -hour (allow four times as much water as 
tapioca), then cook in a double boiler until trans- 
parent, and pour it around a tart apple and cook as 
directed in preceding recipe. Serve hot or cold with 
plain or whipped cream. 

Peaches and Tapioca I. (Baked). 

If pearl tapioca is used, soak it in cold water at 
least a half-hour (allowing four times as much water 
as tapioca), then cook it in a double boiler until trans- 
parent. Pour over peaches that have been pared and 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 199 

halved. Dust with granulated sugar, baste with boil- 
ing water, and bake until the peaches are very tender. 

If desired, the peaches may be sliced. Allow about 
an equal quantity of peaches and cooked tapioca. 

Serve hot or cold with cream. 

Peaches and Tapioca II. 

If granulated tapioca is used, let it soak for fifteen 
minutes in cold water, using four parts of water to 
one of tapioca. Then pour over and around the 
peaches and finish as above directed. 

Bananas served Raw. 

Select thoroughly ripe but solid bananas. Chill 
near the ice. Just before serving remove the skins 
and stringy fibre and with a silver knife cut into slices 
or blocks. Half fill a glass, cup, or saucer ; cover the 
top with whipped cream. Dust with sugar and serve. 

Plain cream may be substituted for the whipped. 

Baked Bananas I. 

Select a porcelain-lined or granite baking-dish. Re- 
move the skins and stringy fibre from the bananas. 
Place them in the dish; dust lightly with granulated 
sugar. Pour in enough boiling water to cover the 
bottom of the dish and bake in a quick oven about 
twenty minutes, basting once or twice. Serve hot 
with plain or whipped cream. Sugar may be omitted. 

Baked Bananas II. 

Place bananas, unpeeled, in a moderate oven and 
bake until the skins open. Serve at once. 



200 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Gelatin Desserts. 

Granulated gelatin is best used in these recipes, as 
it is in a convenient form, taking less time to soak. 
Small quantities are also easily measured. A two- 
ounce box contains eight level teaspoonfuls. 

Wine-Jelly. 

One level teaspoonful or one-eighth box of granu- 
lated gelatin. 

Two tablespoonfuls of cold water. 

One tablespoonful of sugar. 

Grated yellow rind of one-fourth of a lemon. 

One-half cup of boiling water. 

One-fourth cup of sherry wine. 

Put the gelatin in a small dish, cover with the cold 
water, and let it soak until soft. Add the yellow rind 
to the half-cup of cold water, bring it to a boil and 
pour over the softened gelatin, add the sugar and 
wine. Stir over hot water until all is dissolved. Pour 
through gauze or a fine strainer into a mould or 
serving-dish. Stand near the ice until it has formed 
a jelly. This will require an hour or more. Serve 
plain or with whipped cream. 

Lemon-Jelly. 

One-eighth box of gelatin. 

Two tablespoonfuls of cold water. 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

One tablespoonful of lemon- juice. 

Three-fourths cup of boiling water. 

Grated yellow rind of one-fourth of a lemon. 

Follow directions for making in preceding recipe. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 201 

Snow Pudding. 

Follow the directions for Wine- or Lemon- Jelly. 
Pour into a bowl and stand in ice-water. When cold 
and just beginning to jelly, beat with an egg-beater 
until perfectly white. Beat the white of one egg to a 
froth and stir it into the pudding. Turn all into a 
mould and stand in a cold place several hours. Serve 
with cream or a soft custard sauce. 

If desired, the white of egg may be omitted. 



Charlotte Russe. 

One cup of cream. 

One-third cup of powdered sugar. 

One-eighth box of gelatin. 

One tablespoonful of sherry wine. 

Two tablespoonfuls of cold water. 

Lady-fingers or sponge-cakes. 

Cover the gelatin with cold water and let it stand 
until soft. Whip the cream, drain, and turn it into a 
bowl. Place the bowl in a pan of cracked ice. Add to 
the soaked gelatin just enough boiling water to dis- 
solve it. Sift the sugar over the cream, stirring it in 
carefully, add the wine and the dissolved gelatin. 
Stir immediately and continually until it begins to 
thicken. Pour into a cup or mould lined with lady- 
fingers. Keep in a cold place for an hour and it is 
ready to serve. 

This may also be served on slices of sponge-cake, 
or hollow out the centre of a small cake and fill in 
with the cream. 



202 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Gelatin Cream. 

Make the same as Charlotte Russe, omitting the 
sponge-cake. 

Fruit Charlotte. 

Make a cup of Gelatin Cream, and just before pour- 
ing it into the mould or serving-dish add one-half 
cup of chopped dates or figs. 

Chocolate Bavarian Cream. 

One cup of milk. 

One cup of cream. 

One-fourth cup of cold water. 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

One tablespoonful of grated chocolate. 

One-fourth box of gelatin. 

Whip the cream and stand in a cool place. Cover 
the gelatin with the cold water and let it soak until 
soft. Heat the milk, add the chocolate, which has been 
moistened with a little cold milk. Cook ten minutes 
over hot water or in a double boiler. Add the sugar 
and gelatin, stir until dissolved. Strain into a bowl 
standing in cracked ice. Stir until it begins to thicken, 
add the whipped cream, mix thoroughly, and pour 
into a mould. Stand on or near the ice for an hour. 
Serve cold with cream. 

Spanish Cream. 

One-eighth box of gelatin. 

One cup of milk. 

One egg. 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 203 

Two tablespoonfuls of cold water. 
One tablespoonful of sherry wine. 

Cover the gelatin with the cold water and let it 
stand until soft. Scald the milk, beat the yolk of egg 
until light, add the sugar and hot milk. Return to the 
fire and cook until creamy, add the gelatin, stir until 
dissolved, strain, add the sherry wine and the white of 
egg beaten to a stifif froth. Turn into a mould and 
stand in a cold place for an hour or more. 



Calf's-Foot Jelly. 

One calf's foot. 

One and one-half quarts of water. 

White of one egg. 

Two-inch stick of cinnamon. 

One-fourth blade of mace. 

One cup of sugar. 

Juice of one lemon. 

Grated yellow rind of one-half of a lemon. 

Have the foot split into halves, then cracked into 
several pieces. W^ash well. Place them in a kettle 
and cover with the one and one-half quarts of cold 
water. Bring slowly to a boil, then skim and simmer 
about three hours. Strain and cool. When cold re- 
move the fat from off the top and the sediment from 
the bottom. Heat the jelly, add the lemon-peel and 
juice, cinnamon, mace, and sugar. Beat the white of 
egg slightly; stir into the jelly. Boil about five min- 
utes, then let it stand off the fire about five minutes 
before straining it through a flannel bag or three 



204 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

thicknesses of gauze or cheese-cloth. Pour into 
moulds or small cups. Stand in a cold place to form 
a jelly. 

Cakes. 

Much depends on the baking of a cake. For the 
recipes given in this chapter a moderate oven is re- 
quired. Have the oven the proper temperature before 
mixing the cake, as it must be baked immediately. 
Place the cake in the centre of the oven and do not 
attempt to bake anything else at the same time. Also 
allow your cake to bake at least ten minutes if small, 
and fifteen or twenty if large, before opening the oven 
door, then do not move the cake unless necessary, and 
close the oven door gently or the cake may fall. 

To test a cake, when it looks done, hold it to your 
ear; if it ticks loudly, return it to the oven; if the 
ticking is very faint, it is sufficiently baked. 

Another test is to run a broom splint or straw down 
the centre. K it comes out clean the cake is done. 

Or, when the cake begins to leave the sides of the 
pan it is probably done. 

When sufficiently baked, remove the cake from the 
oven and turn it out of the pan as gently as possible; 
then do not handle again until it is cold. 



Sponge-Cake. 

Three eggs. 

One-half cup of granulated sugar. 

One teaspoonful of lemon- juice. 

Grated yellow rind of one-fourth of a lemon. 

One-half cup of pastry flour. 



SICK AND COXVALESCEXT 205 

Separate the eggs, beat the yolks (in a bowl) until 
light, add the sugar gradually, beating all the while, 
add the flavoring and beat several minutes. Beat the 
whites to a stiff froth, stir into the yolks and sugar, 
sift in the flour gradually, stirring all the while. Pour 
into a cake-pan that you have previously lined with 
plain paper. Bake about thirty-five minutes, or until 
done, in a moderate oven. 

This cake is also very nice baked in iron or granite 
muffin-pans. 

Cream Sponge-Cake. 

Before baking the cake make the filling as follows : 

One cup of milk. 

Yolks of two or three eggs. 

Grated yellow rind of one-fourth of an orange. 

Two tablespoonfuls of orange- juice. 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

One and one-half tablespoonfuls of cornstarch. 

Heat the milk, add the cornstarch (which has been 
mixed with a little cold milk), stir until it thickens, 
and cook several minutes. Beat the yolks until light, 
add the sugar and grated orange-peel, then add the 
milk and cornstarch. Cook a few minutes (below 
boiling-point, or it will have a curdled appearance). 
Remove from the fire, add the orange- juice, and let 
it cool while you bake a sponge-cake as directed in 
the preceding recipe, baking it in two pans. When 
done and still warm put the filling between the two 
layers. 

Or, with a fork hollow out the centre of individual 
sponge-cakes, filling in the centre with the custard. 



2o6 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Angel's Food. 

Whites of six eggs. 

Three-fourths cup of granulated sugar. 

A small pinch of salt. 

One-fourth level teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 

One-half cup of pastry flour. 

Sift the flour five times. Add salt and cream of tar- 
tar to the whites of eggs. Beat to a stiff froth. Sift 
in the sugar gradually, stirring all the while. Then sift 
in the flour gradually. When mixed, pour into an un- 
greased pan and bake in a very moderate oven one-half 
hour or more. When done, remove carefully the pan. 
Handle as gently as possible. 

Sunshine-Cake. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs until light, then add to 
the well-beaten whites of six eggs. Then proceed as 
directed under Angel's Food. 

Sponge-Cake Croquette. 

Cut a piece of sponge-cake to resemble a croquette, 
or any shape desired. Toast the trimmings of cake 
until a golden brown. Roll fine. Dip the cake quickly 
into cream or milk. Pick it up with a fork and dust 
it all over with the brown crumbs. Serve with 
whipped cream or a soft custard sauce. 

The cream may be slightly sweetened and flavored 
with sherry wine before the dipping if desired. 

Marguerites. 

Toast plain crackers. Spread them with lemon- 
butter, chopped dates (without skins and stones), or 
any desired jelly. 



SICK AND COXVALESCEXT 207 

Beat the white of one egg to a froth, add (slowly) a 
teaspoonful of powdered sugar, and beat until very 
stiff. Heap in fancy shapes over the crackers, dust 
with sugar, and brown in the oven, or cook the 
meringue as directed under French Custard (page 
180). 

SWEET OR PUDDING SAUCES. 

Soft Custard Sauce. 

Follow recipe for Soft Custard, page 179. 

Hot Egg Sauce I. 
One egg. 

One cup of water. 
Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
One level tablespoonful of cornstarch or arrowroot. 

Bring the water to a boil, moisten the cornstarch 
with a little cold water, pour into the boiling water, 
stirring until clear. Remove from the fire and pour 
into the well-beaten egg, beating all the while, add 
the sugar, reheat over hot water, and it is ready to 
serve. 

If desired, a teaspoonful of sherry wine or lemon- 
juice may be added just before serving. 

The flavor is also improved if a few gratings of 
the yellow lemon-peel is added to the cold water. 

Hot Egg Sauce II. (vi^ith Milk). 
One egg. 
One cup of milk. 
Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
One level tablespoonful of cornstarch or arrowroot. 



2o8 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Bring the milk to a boil, moisten the cornstarch or 
arrowroot with a little cold milk, pour it into the 
boiling milk and stir several minutes until it thickens. 
Remove from the fire and pour into the well-beaten 
Qgg, beating all the while, add the sugar, reheat over 
hot water, and it is ready to serve. 

If desired, a teaspoonful of sherry wine may be 
added. 

Caramel Sauce. 

One-half cup of granulated sugar. 
One-half cup of water. 

Put the sugar in an aluminum or iron saucepan and 
stir with a wooden spoon over a quick fire until the 
sugar melts and becomes an amber color, then pour 
in the water, stir several minutes, remove from the 
fire and cool. 

Cream Sauce. 

One-half cup of cream. 

One level tablespoonful of granulated sugar. 

One teaspoonful of sherry wine. 

Dissolve the sugar in the cream, and just before 
serving stir in the sherry wine. 

If desired, a small pinch of mace may be added. 

Peach Sauce. 
See page 171. 

Wine Sauce. 

One cup of water. 

One egg. 

Grated yellow rind of one-fourth of a lemon. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 209 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

One level tablespoonful of cornstarch or arrowroot. 

Two tablespoonfuls of sherry wine. 

Add the yellow rind of lemon to the water, then 
bring to a boil, moisten the cornstarch with a little 
cold water, pour into the boiling water, stirring until 
clear. Remove from the fire and pour into the well- 
beaten egg, beating all the while, add the sugar, re- 
heat over hot water, and add the wine. Serve hot. 

Hot Chocolate Sauce I. 

One-half cup of milk. 
Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

One level tablespoonful of rice flour, cornstarch, or 
arrowroot. 

One tablespoonful of grated chocolate. 

Melt the chocolate in a saucepan over hot water, 
add the hot milk slowly, stirring all the while. When 
boiling add the rice flour or cornstarch, which has 
been moistened with a little cold milk. Stir until it 
thickens. Remove from the fire, add the sugar, and 
it is ready to serve. 

Hot Chocolate Sauce II. (Egg thickening). 

One-half cup of hot milk. 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

White of one egg. 

One tablespoonful of grated chocolate. 

Melt the chocolate in a saucepan over hot water, 
add the hot milk slowly, stirring all the while. When 
smooth, pour into the well-beaten white of egg, stir 
in the sugar, and it is ready to serve. 

14 



210 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Chocolate Sauce I. 

See Egg Chocolate, page 47.- 

Chocolate Sauce II. 

One level tablespoonful of gelatin. 
One tablespoonful of sugar. 
One cup of milk. 
One ounce of chocolate. 

Cover the gelatin with the milk and let it soak a half- 
hour, then heat gradually, stirring all the while; add 
the chocolate (which has been melted over hot water). 
When well mixed, remove from the fire, strain, and 
add the sugar. Serve hot. 

If desired cold, use one-half the quantity of gelatin. 

Lemon Sauce I. 

One cup of water. 

One-eighth cup of Irish moss. 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Two tablespoonfuls of lemon- juice. 

A few gratings of the yellow rind of a lemon. 

Soak the moss in lukewarm water ten minutes, 
then wash each piece thoroughly in cold water. Drain 
and soak in the cup of cold water a half-hour. Add 
the yellow rind, then stir and slowly heat until it is 
steaming hot, then let it simmer about ten minutes. 
Strain through a fine sieve. Stir in the lemon- juice 
and sugar. Serve warm. 

Lemon Sauce II. 
Follow recipe for Egg-Cream or Lemon-Butter. 



SICK AXD CONVALESCENT 211 

Currant-Jelly Sauce. 

One cup of water. 

Two tablespoonfuls of currant-jelly. 

One tablespoonful of sugar. 

One level tablespoonful of rice flour or cornstarch. 

Bring the water to a boil, add it to the currant- jelly 
and stir until dissolved, and when again boiling add 
the rice flour or cornstarch (which has been moistened 
with a little cold water). Cook several minutes, re- 
move from the fire, add the sugar. Serve hot or cold. 

A few drops of lemon-juice may also be added if 
desired. 

¥¥ 



FROZEN FOODS. 

Beef-tea, whipped cream, ice-cream (with small 
amounts of flavoring and sugar, and sometimes with- 
out either), frozen fruits, and albumenized fruit-juices, 
etc., are often ordered. 

These are also usually desired in small quantities, 
so the following method is not only convenient but 
entirely satisfactory. In this way you can control 
the ingredients of your frozen foods better and get 
the required nutriment in a pure form. 

Method of Freezing. 

Choose a glass jar (pint or quart size) with a tight- 
fitting screw top and rubber (such as are used for 
canning and preserving). Turn in the mixture to be 
frozen. Screw down the lid and place the jar in 



212 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

the centre of a kettle or small bucket and pack with 
alternate layers of finely chopped ice and rock-salt. 
Use one-third rock-salt and two-thirds ice. Allow 
an hour or more for the freezing. 

The more salt used the quicker the freezing. How- 
ever, the slower the freezing the smoother the result. 

Ice-cream is improved if the thick layer which first 
forms on the sides of the jar is stirred in with a 
wooden spoon and well beaten. This may be repeated 
two or three times during the first half-hour of the 
freezing. 

Care must be taken that no salt gets into the jar, 
so it is well to only pack the bucket within an inch 
of the lid of the jar for the first half-hour, or until 
the beating and stirring are finished. Then pack with 
layers of ice and salt (as before) until the jar is com- 
pletely covered. Place over the whole a wet cloth and 
stand aside until wanted. 

Whipped cream is used in many of the following 
recipes, though plain cream may be substituted, but 
a longer time will be required for the freezing and 
the cream will not be so smooth when frozen. 



Whipped Cream. 

Choose double cream or that which has stood on 
the milk at least twenty-four hours. It will then whip 
easily and leave little or no liquid residue. It must be 
very cold before starting the whipping. Also place a 
large bowl on the ice to become thoroughly chilled. 
Pour the cream into the bowl and whip until thick 
with one or two ordinary egg-beaters. This is best 
done in a cool place. 



SICK AND COXVALESCEXT 213 

Any quantity of cream may be whipped, but it will 
take longer to whip a half-cup than a pint of cream. 

Do not whip longer that to bring the cream to a 
thick froth. 

If obtainable, a " cream-whipper" is the quicker and 
most convenient method ; but the above directions can 
be used with the same result. 

A silver fork is best to whip a few tablespoonfuls 
of cream or any small quantity. 

Plain Ice-Cream. 

Whip any desired quantity of crear^ as above di- 
rected. Turn into a jar and freeze. 

If desired, it may be slightly sweetened. 

Ice-Cream. 

One cup of whipped cream. 
One tablespoonful of sugar. 
One teaspoonful of sherry wine. 

Sift the sugar over the cream. Stir in the sherry 
wine. Place all in a jar and freeze as directed. 

Bisque Ice-Cream. 

One cup of whipped cream. 

Two tablespoonfuls of sponge-cake crumbs. 

One teaspoonful of sherry wine. 

One or two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Toast the sponge-cake and roll fine. Add the crumbs 
to the whippped cream. Stir in the sugar and sherry 
wine. Freeze in a jar as directed. 



214 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Chocolate Ice-Cream. 

One cup of whipped cream. 
One teaspoonful of sherry wine. 
One tablespoonful of grated chocolate. 
Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
One-fourth cup of hot milk. 

Mix the chocolate with a little cold water, add one- 
fourth cup of hot milk, and cook over hot water about 
ten minutes. When cooled add the sherry wine and 
sugar, then stir carefully into the whipped cream. 
Freeze as directed, but allow a longer time for the 
freezing. 

Frozen Custard. 

One cup of milk. 

Two eggs. 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

One tablespoonful of sherry wine. 

Scald the milk. Beat the yolks until light, add the 
sugar, then slowly add the milk, beating all the while. 
Cook over hot water or in a double boiler, stirring 
all the while until it is the consistency of rich cream. 
Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Stir them into the 
custard. Stand in a cool place, and when cold add 
the sherry wine or a few drops of any desired flavor- 
ing. Pour into a jar and freeze as directed. 

Lemon Ice. 

One cup of cold water. 

White of one Qgg. 

Yellow rind of one-eighth of a lemon. 

Three tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Two tablespoonfuls of lemon- juice. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 215 

Bring the water and grated yellow rind of lemon to 
a boil. Mix the sugar and lemon- juice together, add 
the boiling water, slowly, stirring all the while. Pour 
over the white of egg, which has been beaten to a stiff 
froth. When cold freeze as directed. 

Orange Ice. 

One cup of orange- juice. 

White of one egg. 

Yellow rind of one-fourth of an orange. 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

One teaspoonful of lemon- juice. 

Bring the orange- juice and grated yellow rind to 
a boil, remove from the fire, add the sugar and lemon- 
juice. Pour into the well-beaten white of egg, stir- 
ring all the while. When cooled, freeze as above. 

Frozen Fruits. 

One cup of fruit. 

Three tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

White of one egg. 

Wash any desired fresh ripe fruit. Add the sugar 
and the well-beaten white of one egg. Freeze as di- 
rected for Ice Cream. 

Frozen Beef-Tea. 

One cup of beef-tea. 
White of one egg. 

Beat the white of egg to a stiff froth and stir in a 
cup of well-made beef-tea (preferably the " red kind." 
See page 9). Turn into a jar and freeze as directed 
for Ice-Cream until the consistency of a thick mush. 



2i6 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

Frozen Beef-Juice Albumenized. 

One-half cup of beef- juice. 
White of one egg. 

Whip the white to a stiff froth, stir in the beef-juice. 
(See pages 7 and 8.) Turn into a jar and freeze as 
directed for ice-cream. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 217 

ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



2i8 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 219 

ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



220 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 221 

ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



222 HOW TO COOK FOR THE 

ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT 223 

ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



224 HOW TO COOK FOR THE SICK 
ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



INDEX. 



A. 

Albumen, dried, 43 

egg, 35 
Albumenized barley-water, 

beef-juice, frozen, 216 

jelly, 19 

lemonade, 36 

milk, 36 

rice-water, 2^ 

whey, 36 

water, 35 
Angel's food, 206 
Apple and sago, 187 

and tapioca, 196 

baked, 170 

with rice, 198 
with tapioca, 198 

betty, 195 

charlotte, 196 

float, 196 

for breakfast, 87 

sauce, 169 

steamed, 170 

stewed, 169 

-water, 37 
Arrowroot-jelly, 28 

gruel, 83, 84 

pudding, 177, 178 

-water, 40 
Asparagus, 137 

salad, 151 

soup, 74, 75, 76 



B. 

Bacon, boiled, 128 
Baking soda, 29 
36 Banana, baked, 199 

for breakfast, 87 

gruel, 89 

mush, 89 

souffle, 195 
Barley gruel. 84 

-jelly, 28, 89 

-water, 39, 40 

albumenized. 36 
Bavarian cream, chocolate, 

202 
Bean, Lima, 141 

puree, 78 

salad, 153 
Beef and mutton, 123 

-broth, 13 

-jelly (with gelatin), 17 
(with Irish moss), 

17 
(with tapioca), 18 
-juice I. and II., 7, 8 

III. (cold process), 

8 
frozen, 9, 216 
-marrow on toast, 52, 53 
paste, 12 
puree, 12 
raw, 12, 13 
roasted, 125 
16 225 



226 



INDEX 



Beef sandwich, 124, 155 
raw, 124 
scraped, 11, 123 
stock, 63 

steak, broiled, 124 
-tea I., 9 

and sago, 11 

and yolk of egg, 11 

frozen, 11, 215 

II. (old-fashioned 

method), 10 
peptonized, 23 
Birds, 122 

broiled, 122 

roasted, 123 

smothered, 122 

Biscuits, gluten, 168 

Bisque of oysters, 64 

Blackberry flummery or 

mush, 172 
Blanc mange, 188, 189 
Bouillon, 59 
clam, 16 
tomato, 56 
Bread, 162 

-boxes, toasted, 49 
German puffs, 165 
gluten, 168 
Graham flour popovers, 

165 
mush gems, 164 
omelet, 97 
popovers, 164 
pudding, 183 
pulled, 49 
soup, 52 

spoon or quick, 164 
sticks, 163 
white, 162 



Bread, whole wheat, 163 

with fruit, 164 
Breakfast foods with fruit, 

87 
Broiled beefsteak, 124 

birds, 122 

chops, 126 

fish, 128 

mushrooms, 135 

oysters, 106 

on half-shell, 106 

sweetbreads, 99 
Broiling, pan, 125 
Broth, beef-, 13 

chicken-, 14 

clam-, 16 

mutton-, 15 

oyster-, 15 
Brown sauce, 161 

soup with croutons, 57 

stocks, 61 
Browned flour, 57 
Brussels sprouts, 142 
Buns, toasted, 181 

C. 

Cabbage salad, 152 
Cake, angel's food, 206 

baking of, 204 

cream sponge, 205 

croquettes, 206 

marguerites, 206 

sponge-, 204 

sunshine, 206 
Calf's-foot jelly, 203 
Cane-sugar, 27 
Caramel sauce, 208 
Celery and tomato salad, 152 



INDEX 



22y 



Celery salad. 151 

fringed, 151 
sandwich. 155 
sauce, 160 
soup, d-], 68, 69 
stewed, 141 
Charlotte, rice, 186 

russe, 201 
Cheese sandwich. 156 
Cherry omelet, 98 
Chestnut puree, 78 
Chicken a la bechamel. 116 
and mushrooms, 118 
and rice, 119 
and rice soup, yy 
and sweetbreads, loi 
au supreme, 118 
boiled, 115 
-broth I. and II., 14 
choosing of, 112, 113 
cream breaded, 121 
creamed, 116 
croutons. 60 
devilled, 117 
drawing of. 113. 114 
in brown sauce, 118 
in clear jelly, 120 
in w^hite jelly, 120 
-jelly (plain), 19 

(with gelatin), 17 
(with Irish moss), 

18 
(with tapioca), 18 
minced, with poached 

^KZ, 119 
omelet, 97, 98 
panada. 65 
puree, 66, (ij 
roasted, 115 



Chicken salad, 153 

sandwich, 119, 154, 135 
sauce for, 159 

brown, 162 
scalloped, 117 
souffle, 122 
soup, 54 

cream of, 79 
(with rice), 55 
spring, broiled. 114 
smothered, 114 
stock, 61, 62 
tapioca soup, 55, 'j-j 
terrapin. 117 
timbale. 121 
Chocolate Bavarian cream. 
202 
cream. 190 
custard. 181 
egg. 47 

ice-cream, 214 
pudding. 189 
sauce. 210 

hot, 209, 210 
Chops, broiled. 126 

French, 126 
Clam-broth. 16 

soup, 65 
Club sandwich, 156 
Cocoa, 46 

junket, 176 
Cod, fresh, 130. 131, 132, 133 
Coffee (ground). 46 

(pulverized. 45 
Consomme, 58 
cold. 59 
-jelly, 59 
royal. 59 
with ^^^. 59 



228 



INDEX 



Cooked fruits, 169 

Corn baked in the husk, 139 

boiled, 138 

-cakes, 139 

meal mush, 86 

omelet, 97 

pudding, 139 

puree, 70 
Cow's milk, 24 
Cracker gruel, 82 

with egg, 82 

toasted, 50 
Cream, 26 

glass of, 39 

sauce, 157-159, 208 

siphoned, 26 

soups, 63 

sponge-cake, 205 

-toast, 51 

whipped, 212 
Cress sandwich, 155 
Croutons, 49 

chicken, 60 

egg, 60 
Cucumbers, cooked, 141 
Cup custards, 180, 181 
Currant-jelly and sago, 193 
and tapioca, 193 
dessert, 187 
sauce, 211 

-water, 38 
Custard, chocolate, 181 

cup, 180, 181 

farina, 187 

French, 180 

frozen, 214 

junket, 175 

soft, 179 

rice, 185 



D. 

Daisy salad, 152 
Dates for breakfast, 87 

stewed, 171 
Desserts, 174 

angel's food, 206 
apple betty, 195 

charlotte, 196 

float, 196 
apples and sago, 197 

and tapioca, 196, 198 

baked with rice, 198 
arrowroot pudding, 177, 

178 
banana souffle, 195 
bananas, baked, 199 

raw, 199 
blanc mange, 188, 189 
bread pudding, 183 
cakes, baking of, 204 
calf's-foot jelly, 203 
charlotte russe, 201 
chocolate. Bavarian 
cream, 202 

cream, 190 

custard, 181 

ice-cream, 214 

pudding, 189 
cocoa junket, 176 
cream sponge-cake, 205 • 
cup custard, 180, 181 
currant-jelly, 187 
custard junket, 175 
cut peaches, 197 
egg cream, 190 

toast, 182 
eggnog junket, 176 
farina custard, 187 

pudding, 187 



INDEX 



229 



Desserts : 

flaked rice, 186 
floating island, 181 
French custard, 180 

toast, 182 
frozen custard, 214 

foods, 211 

fruits, 215 
fruit charlotte. 202 
gelatin, 200 

cream. 202 
gluten, 169 
ice-cream, 213 

bisque, 213 

plain, 213 
Irish moss blanc mange, 

178 
junket, 174, 175 

with cream, 177 
lemon-butter, 190 

-jelly, 179, 200 

ice, 214 

pudding. 189. 190 
marguerites, 206 
old-fashioned rice pud- 
ding, 184 
orange ice, 215 
peach cream, 197 
peaches and tapioca, 197 
prune souffle, 195 
rice balls, 186 

charlotte, 186 

custard, 185, 186 

meringue, 185 

pudding, 184 
rotha gritza, 187 

charlotte, 188 
sago and currant-jelly, 
193 



Desserts : 

snow pudding, 201 
soft custard, 179 
souffle, 193 

Indian-meal, 194 

peach, 194 
Spanish cream, 202 
sponge-cake, 204 

croquettes, 206 
steamed rice, 183 
sunshine cake, 206 
tapioca and currant-jelly, 
192' 

charlotte. 191 

-jelly, 190, 191 

pudding, 191, 192 
toasted buns, 181 
whipped cream, 212 
wine- jelly, 200 

pudding, igo 
, Dextrin, 47 
Drinks, 35 

E. 

Egg albumen, 35 

and sherry, 44 

baked, 95 

chocolate, 47 

cream or lemon-butter, 
190 

croutons, 60 

golden-rod, 94 

gruel, 82 

hard-boiled, yolks of, 93 
I Japanese. 94 

! lemonade. 41 

poached, 91 

salad, 152 

sandwich. 93. 136 



230 



INDEX 



Egg sauce, i6o 
hot, 207 

scrambled, 92, 93 

shirred, 95 

soft-cooked, 92 

steamed or frothed, 91 

toast, 182 

white of, 35 
Eggnog, 42, 43 

junket, 176 

F. 

Farina custard, 187 

mush, 86 

pudding, baked, 187 
Fat, to remove, 8 
Fish, 128 

a la bechamel, 130 

a la creme, 132 

baked, 128 

blue, 128 

boiled, 129 

broiled, 128 

creamed halibut, 129 

devilled halibut, 132 

fillets of, 131 

fresh cod, 130-133. 

halibut and rice, 130 

moulded halibut, 133 

planked, 128 

salmon a la creme, 132 

scalloped, 130 

shad, 128 

timbale, 130 

to draw, 128 
Flaked rice, 87, 186 
Flaxseed-tea, 42 
Flour ball, 85 



Flour ball, browned, 57 

gruel, 85 
Frozen foods, 211 

method of freezing, 
211 

beef-juice, albumenized, 
216 

beef-tea, 11, 215 

custard, 214 

fruits, 215 

mutton-juice, 9, 216 
Fruit charlotte, 202 

cooked, 169 

frozen, 215 

omelet, 98 

sandwich, 136 



Gelatin (beef-jelly), 17 

(chicken- jelly), 17 

cream, 202 

desserts, 200 
Gems, gluten, 167 

mush-bread, 164 
German milk soup, ']2i 

puffs, 165 
Gluten biscuits, 168 

bread, 168 

desserts, 169 

foods, 166 

gems, 167 

gruel, 166 

mush, 166 

bread, 168 

popovers, 166 

toast, 167 

wafers, 167 

zwieback, 167 



INDEX 



231 



Graham-flour popovers, 165 
Grape-juice, 173 
Green peppers and rice, 145 
Grilled potatoes, 143 
Gruels, 80 

arrowroot, 83, 84 

banana, 89 

barley, 84 

cracker, 82 

egg^ 82 

flour, 85 
ball, 85 

gluten, 166 

Indian-meal, 81 

Irish moss, 24 

oatmeal. 84 

peptonized, s^ 

racahout des Arabes, 85 
Gum-arabic water, 40 

H. 

Halibut and rice, 130 

creamed. 129 

devilled, 132 

moulded, 133 
Home modification of milk, 

25 
Homily grits, 88 
Hot chocolate sauce, 209, 210 

lemonade, 41 

roast beef sandwich, 155 



I. 

Ice-cream, 213 

bisque. 213 
chocolate, 214 
plain, 213 



Ice, lemon, 214 
orange, 215 

Indian-meal gruel, 81 
souffle, 194 

Infants, food for, 28, 29 

Irish moss, 16 

(beef-jelly), 17 
blanc mange, 178 
celery soup, 69 
(chicken-jelly), 18 
gruel, 24 
in milk- jelly, 23 
(lemon-jelly), 179 
tea or lemonade, 42 
thickening, 64, 71, 158 



Jelly, albumenized, 19 

barley-, 89 

beef-, 17, 18 

calf's-foot, 203 

chicken-, 17, 18, 19 

chicken in, 120 

consomme, 59 

currant-, and sago, 193 
and tapioca, 192 

Irish moss, 179 

milk and arrowroot-, 2S 

lemon-, 200 

meat-, 16 

milk-, 23, 34 

oatmeal. 88 

rice-, 88 

tapioca-, 190, 191 

wine-, 200 
Junkets, 174 

cocoa, 176 

custard, 175 



232 



INDEX 



Junket dessert, 175 
eggnog, 176 
plain, 23 

with cream, 177 



Kumiss, 22 



K. 



L. 



Lactose, 27 

Lemon-butter or egg cream, 
190 

ice, 214 

-jelly, 200 

(Irish moss), 179 

pudding, 189 

sauce, 210 
Lemonade, 41 

albumenized, 36 

egg, 41 

hot, 41 

Irish rnoss, 42 

peptonized, 34 

with white of egg, 41 
Lentil puree, 78 
Lettuce salad, 150 

sandwich, 155 

soup, TZ 
Lima beans, 141 
soup, 70 
Lime-water, 27, 37 

and milk, 22 

M. 

Macaroni, 147 

baked, 147 
Marmalade, orange, 172 

pineapple, 173 
Marrow toast, 52, 53 



Mayonnaise dressing, 149 
Meat-jellies, 16 
preparations, 7 
salads, 148 
Milk, 20 

albumenized, 36 

analyses of, 24 

and arrowroot-jelly for 

infants, 28 
and barley-jelly for in- 
fants, 28 
and lime-water, 22 
home modification of, 25 
-jelly, 34 

(with Irish moss), 23 
modified, 24 
partially peptonized, 29 
pasteurized, 21 
peptonized, 30, 35 
porridge, 22 
-punch, 44 

peptonized, 34 
soup, 79 

specially peptonized, 31 
sterilized, 21 
-sugar, 27 

measure, 27 
-toast, SI 

peptonized, 2)^ 
top-, 26 

to change the flavor of, 21 
Modified milk, 24 

peptonized, 30 
(whey and white of 

^Z%), 27 
Mulled ale, 44 

beer, 44 

wine, 44 
Mush, banana, 80 



INDEX 



233 



Mush, blackberry, 172 

-bread gems, 164 

cornmeal, 86 

farina, 86 

gluten, 166 
Mushrooms, 133 

baked, 135 

broiled, 135 

canned, 134 

in a brown sauce, 134 

in a cream sauce, 134 

sauce, 162 

soup, 135, 136 

to prepare, 133 
Mutton, boiled, 126 

-broth, 15 

chops, broiled, 126 

juice, 9 

frozen, 9, 216 

roasted, 127 

stew, 127 

N. 

Noodle soup, 56 

O. 

Oatmeal for breakfast, 86 

gruel, 84 

-jelly, 88 

soup, y6 

-water, 39 
Omelet and mushrooms, 98 

bread, 97 

cherry, 98 

corn, 97 

oyster, 98, 11 1 

parsley, 96 

plain, 95 



Omelet, Spanish, 96 

tomato, 96 

with chicken, 97 

with creamed chicken, 98 

with fruit, 98 

with jelly, 98 

with rice, 97 

with tongue, 98 
Onion, baked, 141 

boiled, 141 

sauce, 159 

soup, 79 
Open sandwiches, 154 
Orange ice, 215 

marmalade, 172 
Oysters, 103 

a la Newburg, 108 

baked on toast, 107 

boiled, no 

broiled, 106 

on half-shell, 106 

-broth I., 15 

II. (with milk), 15 

brown sauce for, 161 

club, 109, no 

creamed, 107, in 

in chafing-dish, in 

cream breaded, 112 

devilled, 108 

fricassee of, 107 

in a brown sauce, no 

keybobbed, 109 

omelet, 98, in 

on half-shell, breaded, 106 

panned, 105 

peptonized, 22) 

scalloped, 108 

served raw, 104 

soup, 64 



234 



INDEX 



Oysters, stewed, 105 
stuffed, 109 
to prepare, 104 

P. 

Panada, chicken, 65 

with crackers, 50 

sweetbread, loi 

with zwieback, 50 
Pan broiling, 125 
Pancreatic extract, 29 
Parsley omelet, 96 

sauce, 160 
Pasteurization of milk, 21 
Patties, rice, 146 
Peach and tapioca, 197, 198, 
199 

cream, 197 

cut, 197 

for breakfast, 87 

sauce, 171 

souflfle, 194 

stewed, 171 
Peas, green, 141 

puree, 70, 78 

salad, 153 
Peppers, green, and rice, 145 

sweet, 145 
Peptonized beef-tea, 33 

lemonade, 34 

foods, 29 

gruel, 32 

milk, 30, 35 
punch, 34 
toast, 32 
with porridge, 32 

modified milk, 30 

oysters, 33 



Pineapple marmalade, 173 
Planked fish, 128 
Popovers, 164 

German puffs, 165 

gluten, 166 

Graham flour, 165 

toast, 165 

whole wheat, 165 
Potatoes, baked, 142 

boiled, 143 

creamed, 143 

grilled, 143 

mashed, 144 

puff, 144 

salad, 153 

scalloped, 144 

soufiie, 144 

stuffed, 142 
Porridge, milk or raisin, 
22 

with peptonized milk, 
32 
Prune soufiie, 195 

stewed, 172 
Pudding, bread, 183 

chocolate, 189 

corn, 139 

lemon, 189, 190 

rice, 184 

snow, 201 

tapioca, 191, 192 

wine, 190 
Puree of beans, 78 

of chestnut, 78 

of chicken. 66, 67 

of corn, 70 

of lentils, 78 

of peas, 70, 78 

of sweetbread, loi, 102 



INDEX 



:235 



Racahout des Arabes, 85 
Raisin porridge, 22 
Raw-beef balls. 12 
paste, 12 

sandwiches, 124, 155 
Rennet extract, 2^ 
Rice and baked apples, 198 
and chicken, 119 
and halibut, 130 
balls, 186 
boiled, 145 
charlotte, 186 
cooked in chicken stock, 
146 
in milk, 146 
custards, 185 
flaked, 87, 186 
-jelly, 88 
meringue, 185 
omelet, 97 
patties, 146 
pudding, 184 

old-fashioned, 184 
savory, 146 
soup, 76 
steamed, 87 

with cream, 183 
-water, 39 

albumenized, 36 
Roast birds, 123 
chicken, 115 
of beef, 125 
of mutton, 127 
Roll sandwiches, 157 
Rolls, toasted, 48 
Rotha gritza, 187 

charlotte, 188 



S. 

Sago and apples, 197 

and beef-tea, 11 

and currant-jelly, 193 
Salads, 148 

asparagus, 151 

bean. 153 

cabbage, 152 

celery, 151 

chicken, 153 

chopped tomato, 152 

daisy, 152 

dressing, French, 148 
mayonnaise, 149 

^^^^ 152 

fringed celery, 151 

green pea, 153 

lettuce, 150 

meat, 148 

potato, 153 

sweetbread, 102, 153 

tomato, 151 

and celery, 152 

vegetable, 148 

watercress, 150 
Salmon a la creme, 132 
Sandwiches, 154 

beef, 124 

celery, 155 

cheese, 156 

chicken, 119, 154 

club, 156 

cold beef, 155 

creamed chicken, 155 

cress, 155 

double, 154 

^%Z^ 93. 156 

fruit, 156 



236 



INDEX 



Sandwiches, hot roast beef, 

155 

lettuce, 155 

open, 154 

raw-beef, 13, 124, 155 

roll, 157 
Sauces, 157 

apple, 169 

a la bechamel, 159 

brown, 161 

caramel, 208 

celery, 160 

chocolate, 210 

cream, 208 

currant-jelly, 211 

^gg, 160 
hot, 207 

for chicken, 159 
brown, 162 

for oysters, brown, 161 

for vegetables, 159 

hot chocolate, 209, 210 

lemon, 210 

mushroom, 162 

onion, 159 

parsley, 160 

peach, 171 

soft custard, 179, 207 

tomato, 160 

white or cream, 157-159 

wine, 208 
Shad, 128 
Siphon, 26 

cream, 26 
Sodium bicarbonate, 29 
Soft custard, 179 
Soups, 53 

bean, 78 

bouillon, 59 



Soup, bread, 52 
brown, 57 
chestnut, yS 
chicken, 54 

and rice, 55 

puree, 66, 67 

tapioca, 55, 77 
clam, 65 
clear, 53, 54 
consomme, 58 

royal, 59 

with egg, 59 
cream, 63 

of asparagus, 74, 75 
76 

of celery, 67, 68, 69 

of chicken, 77, 79 

of corn, 70 

of lettuce, 7s 

of peas, 70 

of rice, 76 

of tapioca, 77 

of tomato, 71 
German, milk, 7s 
lentils, 78 
Lima bean, 70 
milk, 79 

mushroom, 135. 136 
noodle, 56 
oatmeal, 76 
onion, 79 
oyster, 64 
pea, 78 
puree of sweetbread, loi, 

102 
spinach, 71, 72, 73 
thickened with arrow- 
root, 64 

with cornstarch, 64 



INDEX 



237 



Soup thickened with eggs, 
64 
with Irish moss, 64 

tomato, 57 

bouillon, 56 

Turkish, 56 

vegetable, 58 

vermicelli, 56 

watercress, "jz 

wine, 67 
Souffle, banana. 195 

chicken, 122 

Indian-meal, 194 

peach, 194 

plain, 193 

potato, 144 

prune, 195 
Spinach, 137 

moulded, 138 . 

soup, 71, 72 Jz, 138 
Sponge-cake, 204 
Squabs, 123 
Squash, 145 
Sterilization of bottles, 21 

of milk, 21 
Stew of mutton, 127 
Stocks, 60 

brown, 61 

chicken, 61, 62 

from beef, 63 

quick, dz 

white, 60, 62 
Sugar, cane-, 27 

milk-, 27 
Sweetbreads, 98 

a la bechamel, 100 

baked, 100 

broiled, 99 

creamed, lOO 



Sweetbread panada, loi 

parboiled, 99 

puree, loi, 102 

salad, 102, 153 

served raw, 102 

timbale, 103 

with chicken, loi 
Sweet peppers, 145 

T. 

Tannin, 45 

Tapioca and apples, 196 

and baked apples, 198 

and beef-jelly, 18 

and currant-jelly, 192 

and peaches, 197-199 

charlotte, 191 

in chicken- jelly, 18 

-jelly, 190, 191 

pudding, baked, 191, 192 

soup, ^J 
Tea, 45 

Terrapin, chicken, 117 
Thickening cream soups, 64 
Timbale, chicken, 121 

fish, 130 

sweetbread, 103 
Toasted bread-boxes, 49 

buns, 181 

crackers, 50 

rolls, 48 
Toasts, 47 

beef-marrow on, 52, 53 

cream, 51 

^%^, 182 

French {q%% toast), 182 

gluten, 167 

milk-, 51 



238 



INDEX 



Toast, popover, 165 

to make, 48 

vermicelli, 52 

-water, yj, 50 
Tomato and celery salad, 152 

bouillon, 56 

omelet, 96 

panned, 140 

salad, 151 

chopped, 152 

sauce, 160 

scalloped, 140 

served raw, 139 

soup, 57 

cream of, 71 

stewed, 140 

stuffed, 140 
Tongue omelet, 98 
Top-milk, 26 

V. 

Veal stock, 62 

Vegetables, 136 
asparagus, 137 
Brussels sprouts, 142 
celery, stewed, 141 
corn baked in the husk, 

139 

boiled, 138 

cakes, 139 

pudding, 139 

to eat, 138 
cucumbers, cooked, 141 
green, 136 

peas, 141 

peppers and rice, 145 
in cream sauce, 136, 137 
Lima beans, 141 



Vegetables : 

macaroni, 147 

baked, 147 
onions, baked, 141 

boiled, 141 
panned tomatoes, 140 
peppers, 145 
potatoes, baked, 142 

boiled, 143 

creamed, 143 

grilled, 143 

mashed, 144 

scalloped, 144 

stuffed, 142 

puff or souffle. 144 
rice, boiled, 145 

cooked in chicken 
stock, 146 
in milk, 146 

patties, 146 

savory, 146 
salads, 148 
sauces, 159 
soup, 58 
spinach, 137 

moulded, 138 
squash, 145 
tomatoes, raw, 139 

scalloped, 140 

stewed, 140 

stuffed, 140 
vermicelli, 147 

with cream sauce, 147 

with tomato sauce, 
148 
Vermicelli, 147 
soup, 56 
toast, 52 
with tomato sauce, 148 



IXDEX 



239 



w. 

Wafers, gluten. 167 
Water, 45 

albumenized, ^^ 
Watercress salad, 158 

soup. 73 
Whey, 26. 27 

albumenized, ^^ 

(lemon). S7 

wine. S7 

(with pepsin), ^^ 

(with rennet), 36 
Whole wheat bread, 163 
popovers, 165 



Whipped cream, 212 
White of egg, 35 

or cream sauce. 157, 

stocks. 60, 62 

(with veal). 62 
Wine- jelly. 200 

pudding. 190 

sauce, 208 

soup, 67 

whey, 37 



Zwieback. 50 
gluten, 167 



i;8 



THE END 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 709 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



