Household Cookery 



I^ECIPES 



M. A. ROTHERAM 



^ 



rNv ^D0'^,)05' 



^ 



Lfi. 



"^-^ 







rr. 


Boston Public Library 

This book is to be returned to the 
Library on or before the date last stamped 
below. 

i 




jm 1 6 u 


52 L_; 






































































































FORM NO. 609 : 4.14,52. 25M. 



^oo^. loS 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES 






CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER I. 

I'AliL 

Sours AND Stocks 1 

CHAPTER II. 
Fish 2S 

CHAPTER III. 
Meat Dishes 36 

CHAPTER IV. 
Sauces 58 

CHAPTER V. 
Vegetables 68 

CHAPTER VI. 

Savouries (with Breakfast and Sui)per Dishes) - - - 82 



viii CONTEXTS. 

CHAPTER VII. 

PAGE 

Cold Meat Cookery 103 

CHAPTER VIII. 
Pastky, Puddings and Sweets IIG 

CHAPTER IX. 
Bread, Cakes and Biscuits liS 

CHAPTER X. 
Invalid Cookery 174 

CHAPTER XI. 
Miscellaneous Recipes 190 



SOUPS AND STOCKS. 

Stock is the foundation of most soups. It requires 
special care in preparing to produce a good soup. Long 
and slow cooking are the chief essentials to extract the 
nutriment and gelatine from the meat and bones used. 
Stocks should not be too highly flavoured with vegetables, 
herbs or spices, should be strained through a fine strainer, 
and be allowed to go cold, so that the fat may be removed 
before using them for soups and sauces. 

Shin of beef stock is generally used for clear and good 
brown soups ; knuckle of veal for good white soups. A 
well-made bone stock does excellently for most thick 
and vegetable soups or sauces, as does what is termed 
" second stock ". 



No. 1. 



FIRST STOCK, -'-f '. - 






2 lb. shin of beef or 


knuckle 


1 dessertspoon salt. 


of veal. 




1 carrot. 


6 pints cold water. 




1 turnip. 


6 peppercorns. 




1 onion. 


1 sprig of parsley. 




1 sprig thyme. 



Cut the meat up into pieces about an inch square, re- 
moving the fat ; saw the bones into pieces. Put the meat 
and bones into a large pan, add the water and salt, bring 
to the boil, draw off the fire and skim away every particle 
of scum ; add the vegetables, cleaned and cut in halves, 

1 



2 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

with the flavourings ; place ou the stove, where it will 
only simmer very gently for 4 hours. 

Stock should never be allowed to boil, or it becomes thick 
and a bad colour. Strain, and when cold remove the fat 
(this is best done w-ith a spoon), and then wipe the surface 
of the jelly with a clean hot cloth. It is then ready for use. 

BONE STOCK. No. 2. 

4 lb. fresh meat bones. 5 quarts water. 

2 carrots. 2 onions. 

2 turnips. 6 peppercorns. 

1 sprig parsley. 1 sprig thyme. 

1 tablespoon salt. 

Wash the bones and cut away any fat or discoloured 
pieces of meat ; then proceed exactly as in the pre- 
ceding recipe, only allowing 5 or 6 hours simmering 
according to the size of the bones. 

SECOND STOCK . No. 3. 

Cooked or uncooked bones. Scraps of cooked or uncooked 

Cold water. meat. 

2 carrots. I 2 onions. 

2 turnips. | Salt and pepper. 

For second stock, a large pan of cold water should be 
put on the stove, and into it should be throwai any of the 
above scraps to be used up. Strainings from first stock, 
soups or sauces can all be made use of in this w^ay. 
The ingredients should all simmer gently together for 2 
or 3 hours, and the stock then finished off as in the pre- 
ceding recipes. 

^.B.— Only enough stock of this kind should be made 
for each day's use, as it becomes sour if boiled over and 
over again. 



SOUPS AND STOCKS. 



ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

25 heads of asparagus. 

1^ oz. butter. 

1^ pints stock (No. 2), 

^ pint of milk. 

2 yolks of egg. 



No. 4. 



1 onion. 
1^ oz. flour. 
1 small bay leaf. 
1 sprig parsley. 
Salt and pepper. 



Cut off the asparagus tops and cook them separately 
in a little boiling salted water for about 10 minutes, 
taking care not to break them ; drain and put them into 
the tureen. Cut the stalks into short lengths, slice the 
onion, fry these in the butter slowly for 10 minutes with 
the parsley and bay leaf, add the flour and cook it a 
little, stir in the stock a little at a time off the fire, season 
and simmer the soup gently, first stirring it to the boil, 
for 1 hour. Pass it through a hair sieve, reheat with 
the milk, stir in the yolks mixed with a little cold stock, 
and cook gently for 5 or 10 minutes. Strain on to the 
asparagus heads. 



ARTICHOKE SOUP. 

2 lb. Jerusalem artichokes. 
1 small onion. 
h oz. flour. 
1^ pints stock (No. 2). 



No. 5. 

J pint milk. 

1 oz. butter. 

1 dessertspoon of lemon juice. 

Salt and cayenne pepper. 



To make this soup a good colour, great care must 
be taken in preparing the artichokes. They should be 
as fresh as possible, and a little lemon juice or vinegar 
put in the water in which they are peeled. Keep them 
under water as much as possible. 

Peel and slice the artichokes thinly, also the onion ; 
dissolve the butter, fry the vegetables in it for about 5 or 
6 minutes slowly, add the lemon juice, flour and seasoning, 
also the stock by degrees ; boil up, stirring all the time ; 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 



simmer gently until the vegetables are soft. Pass through 
a hair sieve, washing the pulp through with the milk, 
reheat, and the soup is ready to serve. Serve with fried 
bread. 



BONE SOUP, "^f '- 

2 lb. small fresh meat bones. 
2 oz. dripping. 

1 stick celery. 

2 onions. 

6 peppercorns. 
1 sprig parsley. 



No. 6. 



Salt and pepper. 

3 pints water. 

2 carrots. 

2 turnips. 

2 oz. flour or cornflour. 

1 sprig thyme. 



Make the dripping smoking hot in a stewpan ; wash, dry 
and cut off the fat and discoloured pieces from the bones, 
fry them briskly to a good brown colour in the fat, drain 
them as they are done, pour off the dripping, put the 
bones into the pan again with the cold water and a dessert- 
spoon of salt ; bring to the boil and skim thoroughly ; 
add the vegetables cut into quarters, also the flavourings ; 
simmer the soup gently for 4 hours ; strain and let go 
cold ; skim off all fat ; bring the soup to the boil, stir the 
cornflour or flour to a smooth cream with a little cold 
water, add to the soup and boil for 5 or 10 minutes. A 
few drops of caramel must be added to make the soup a 
good colour. Serve with sippets of toast. 



BARLEY SOUP. 

2 oz. pearl barley. 
1 oz. butter. 
Salt and pepper. 

3 pints stock (No. 3). 



No. 7. 



1 oz. flour. 

1 onion. 

1 wineglass sherry. 



Blanch the barley (No. 425) ; melt the butter and fry 
the onion sliced, and the flour brown in it ; take it off the 



SOUPS AND STOCKS. 5 

fire and stir in the stock by degrees ; season and boil the 
soup, add the barley ; simmer by the side of the fire 
slowly for about 2 hours ; then pass through a wire sieve, 
reheat, and add the sherry. Serve with fried bread. 

BROWN VEGETABLE SOUP. / -^^ No. 8. 

1^ oz. butter. , 1^ oz. flour. 
1 quart stock (No. 3). 1 carrot. 

1 sprig parsley. ' 1 turnip. 

1 sprig thyme. [ 1 onion. 

Salt and pepper. 6 peppercorns. 

2 oz. macaroni. ' 1 stick celery. 

Make the butter hot in a saucepan ; cut the vegetables 
into very thin, small slices and fry them in the butter 
with the parsley, thyme and peppercorns for 10 minutes ; 
stirring them, add the flour, fry it a few minutes, add the 
stock a little at a time, season and stir to the boil. Allow 
the soup to simmer gently for 1 horn:, stirring occasionally. 
Pass through a hair sieve and reheat. 

Boil the macaroni (No. 423), cut it into short lengths, 
diamond-shaped, put them into the tureen and pour the 
boiling soup over. 

CRESSY SOUP. ■' ' No. 9. 

4 good red carrots. 1 small stick celerj'. 

1 onion. ; 1 oz. butter. 

1 quart stock (No. 2). ' Salt and pepper. 

1 sprig parsley. I 1 dessertspoon cornflour. 

^ pint milk. 

Grate the carrots, slice the onion and celery ; dissolve 
the butter and stir the vegetables in it over a slow fire 
with the parsley and seasoning for 10 minutes ; add the 
stock and boil the soup gently for 1^ to 2 hours. Pass 
through a wire or hair sieve, bring to the boil again and 



6 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

stir in the cornflour, mixed into a smooth cream with the 
milk ; boil for 2 or 3 minutes longer. Serve with fried 
bread. 

N.B. — Grating the carrots will make the soup a much 
nicer colour than slicing them. 

CABBAGE SOUP. No. 10. 



1 nice savoy. 
1 oz. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 
^ pint milk. 



1^ pints stock (No. 2). 
1 onion. 
Salt and pepper. 



Thoroughly clean the cabbage and soak it in water for 
half an hour, cut away the hard stalk from the heart and 
back of the leaves, and shred up the leaves into line 
strips an inch long ; throw these into a large pan of 
boiling salted water in which there is a small piece of 
soda and boil fast for 5 minutes (this is to draw out the 
colour and strong flavour of the cabbage). 

Chop the onion finely and put it into a saucepan with 
the stock, milk, butter and seasoning ; bring to the boil ; 
well drain the shredded cabbage in a colander and put it 
into the stock ; boil the soup gently for half an hour. Mix 
the flour to a cream with a little cold milk, add this to 
the soup and boil for 5 minutes, stirring. This soup may 
also be thickened with sago for a change. Serve with 
fried bread. 

CELERY SOUP. No. 11. 

1 head white celery. 1 quart stock (No. 2). 

1^ oz. butter. ^ pint milk. 

1^ oz. flour. Seasoning. 

J pint cream. A few drops of lemon. 

Scrape the celery very white and cut it up ; boil the 



SOUPS AND STOCKS. 7 

stock and cook the celery in it until it is quite soft, adding 
the lemon juice to preserve the colour. 

Dissolve the butter, cook the flour in it without brown- 
ing, stir to this the stock and celery by degrees, boil up 
stirring, and pass through a hair sieve ; reheat with 
the milk and cream if liked. Serve with fried bread. 

CUCUMBER SOUP. No. 12. 

1 medium sized cucmnber. 1 oz. butter. 

1 onion . 1 oz. flour. 

Salt and pepper. I ^ pint milk. 
1^ pints stock (No. 2). 1 teaspoon sugar. 

Slice the cucumber without peeling it, slice the onion ; 
dissolve the butter and cook the vegetables in it for a 
few minutes with the sugar and seasoning ; stir in the 
flour and cook a little, then the stock ; stir to the boil ; 
simmer the soup gently until the cucumber is quite 
tender. Pass through a hair sieve, add the milk and 
reheat. Serve with fried bread. 

CHEESE SOUP. No. 13. 



1 quart stock (No. 1). 
^ pint cream. 
1 oz, butter. 

1 onion. 

2 oz. Parmesan cheese. 
Savoury custard. 



6 white peppercorns. 
Yolks of two eggs. 
1 oz. flour. 
1 stick celery. 
1 sprig parsley. 
Salt and pepper. 



Melt the butter, slice the celery and onion, and fry very 
slowly in the butter with the parsley and peppercorns 
(do not allow them to brown) ; cook the flour a little, next ; 
add the stock by degrees off the fire ; simmer gently about 
1 hour ; strain the soup ; mix together the cheese grated, 
the eggs and cream, add to the soup and stir over a slow 



8 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

fire for 5 minutes, taking care it does not boil, or it will 
curdle. Have some savoury custard (No. 199) cut into 
dice in the tureen, and pour the soup gently over. 

FRENCH VEGETABLE SOUP. No. 14. 



1 carrot, 
1 turnip. 
1 onion. 
1 bay leaf. 
1 oz. butter. 
^ pint milk. 



1 stick celer\-. 
1 lettuce. 
1 small cucumber. 
Salt and pepper. 
1^ pints stock (Nos. 1 or 2). 
1 teaspoon castor sugar. 



Thoroughly clean all the vegetables, and shred them 
into very fine lengths about one inch ; throw them into 
separate cold waters to keep them quite clean ; drain well ; 
dissolve the butter, add the shredded vegetables, sugar, 
bay leaf and seasoning ; put them over a slow fire and 
cook them for about 15 minutes with the lid on, taking 
care they do not break up ; boil the stock and pour 
over them, mix the flour smooth with the milk, add to 
the soup, boil gently for 5 or 6 minutes and serve. 

N.B. — Any vegetable in season except beet can be 
used. The more variety the better. 

GAME SOUP. No. 15. 

The carcases and trimmings 1 oz. flour. 

from one or two pheasants 1 sprig parsley. 

or partridges. 1 sprig thyme. 

1 dessertspoon red currant 6 peppercorns. 

jelly. 1 quart stock (No. 3). 

1 dessertspoon port wine. 1 strip orange rind. 

Seasoning. 1 onion. 
1 oz. butter. 

Break up the game bones and put them into a stewpan 
with the onion sliced, orange, parsley, thyme, pepper- 



SOUPS AND STOCKS. g 

corns and seasoning, pour over them the stock and a few 
drops of caramel (No. 418) ; simmer these gently for 
one hour, strain and take off any fat with kitchen paper ; 
dissolve the butter in the pan, fry the flour brown in it, 
add the game stock and stir to the boil, put in the wine 
and jelly, and strain into the tureen, in which there 
should be some small poached or egged and crumbed 
forcemeat balls (No. 180). 



GIBLET SOUP . 

2 sets of chicken 

giblets. 
1 sprig parsley. 
1 sprig thyme. 
6 peppercorns. 
1 quart stock or water, 
1 oz. flour. 



No. 16. 



duck 



1 onion. 

1 carrot. 

1 small clove garlic. 

1 strip lemon rind. 

1 stick celery. 

1 oz. butter. 

Caramel (No. 418). 



Slice the giblets and vegetables, make the butter hot 
and fry them in it with the flavourings for about ten 
minutes ; stir in the flour and the stock or water, season 
and stir to the boil ; simmer gently for about 2 hours, 
pour off the soup, pound the giblets to a paste in the 
mortar, then pass the whole through a wire sieve ; reheat 
and serve with sippets of toast. 



HABE SOUP. 

1 small hare. 

2 carrots. 

1 stick celery. 
12 peppercorns. 

3 cloves. 

1 gill port wine. 

Salt. 

1 tablespoon red currant jelly. 

Pepper. 



No. 17. 



2 onions. 

1 turnip. 

2 quarts water. 
1 sprig parsley. 
1 sprig thyme. 

1 small bay leaf. 

2 oz. butter. 

3 oz. flour. 



Id HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

Take off the fillets and one or two slices from the lean 
part of the legs ; these can be used for an entree (No. 77). 
Make the butter hot, cut up the hare into pieces ; slice 
the vegetables ; fry these with the herbs and spices, with 
the lid on the pan, for about 15 minutes ; add the 
water, salt and pepper ; simmer gently until the hare 
is quite tender (about 2 hours), pound the meat in a 
mortar, and then sieve all the soup together. Bring to 
the boil, stir the flour smooth with cold water, cook in 
the soup for 10 minutes ; add the red currant jelly and 
port wine. Serve with forcemeat balls egged and crumbed 
(No. 180). 

N.B. — The soup may be thickened with cornflour in- 
stead of flour. 

.JULIENNE SOUP. No. 18. 



1 quart stock (No. 1). 
1 carrot. 
1 turnip. 
1 leek. 



^ lb. lean beef. 
1 stick celery. 
1 small lettuce. 
Seasoning. 



Slice the vegetables very thinly, and then shred them 
finely into inch lengths ; boil them each in separate 
salted boiling waters till just tender, but not enough to 
break them ; drain them well, and put them into the 
soup tureen. 

Kemove all fat and skin from the beef ; scrape it finely, 
put it into a ver)^ clean stewpan with the stock, and 
whisk them over the fire to the boil ; take out the whisk, 
draw the pan to the side, ease the lid on it, and simmer 
the soup gently for 10 or 15 minutes. Place a scalded 
linen cloth over the soup-stand, pour the soup through 
it gently twice, when it should be quite clear. Very 



SOUPS AND STOCKS. li 

carefully reheat it, and pour over the vegetables in the 
tureen. 

N.B. — One or two shredded tarragon leaves are a great 
improvement to this soup. 

JULIENNE SOUP (THICK). No. 19. 



1^ oz. butter. 
1^ oz. flour. 

1 sprig parsley. 

1 sprig thyme. 

6 peppercorns. 



1 quart stock (No. 2). 
1 onion. 
1 carrot. 
1 turnip. 
Seasoning'. 



Shred and cook the carrot and turnip as in the previous 
recipe ; put them into the tureen. Heat the butter, fry 
the onion sliced with the herbs and spices to a light 
brown, add flour and fry also ; stir in the stock off the 
fire, season and boil ; simmer gently about half an hour, 
then strain over the shredded vegetables. 

Leeks are nice in this soup when in season. 

KIDNEY SOUP. No. 20. 



2 slieep's kidneys. 
1 oz. butter. 
1 oz. rice. 
1 quart water. 



^ lb. fillet steak. 
1 sprig parsley. 
1 onion. 
Seasoning. 



Skin the kidneys, take away the fat from the beef and 
cut both into small pieces ; heat the butter in a sauce- 
pan, put in the meat, kidneys, onions sliced, parsley, and 
fry for about 10 minutes over a brisk fire ; wash and add 
the rice, stock and seasoning ; simmer very gently for 
2 hours, stirring frequently to prevent the rice sticking to 
the pan ; pass all through a wire sieve ; reheat, and serve 
with sippets of toast. 



*2 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

LEEK SOUP. No. 21. 



6 leeks. 1 oz. flour. 

1 oz. butter. J pint milk. 

1^ pints stock (No. 2). i Salt and cayenne pepper. 

Cut off the green part of the leeks and shred it into 
fine inch lengths ; boil till tender 5 or 10 minutes in 
boiling salted water, drain and put into the tureen. 
Slice up the leeks ; dissolve the butter ; cook them for 5 
or 6 minutes without browning ; cook the flour next a 
little ; add the stock by degrees and boil ; simmer until 
the leeks are tender 30 minutes ; pass through a hair 
sieve, add the milk and reheat, pour over the shredded 
leeks. Serve with fried bread. 

LENTIL SOUP. No. 22. 



^ pint lentils. 
1 carrot. 
1 turnip. 
1 onion. 
Seasoning. 



8 pints water or stock (No. 3). 
1 sprig parsley. 
1 oz. lean bacon. 
1 stick celery. 



Wash the lentils in several waters and soak them over 
night ; grate the carrot and turnip ; cut up the bacon, 
celery and onion small. Put all the ingi^edients together 
into a stewpan and simmer the soup gently for 2 hours, 
stirring occasionally ; pass through a hair sieve, reheat, 
and serve with dice of fried bread. 

N.B. — Only enough water should be used to well cover 
the lentils in soaking, and this is used in the soup. If 
the soup becomes too thick with the long stewing, add a 
little more water. Haricot bean or pea soups are made 
ill the same way. 



LIVER SOUP. 


1 1 OZ. bacon (fat). 


^3 

No. 23. 


1 lb. calf's liver. i 




1 carrot. 


1 sprig parsley. 




1 turnip. ; 


1 sprig thyme. 




1 onion. 


6 peppercorns. 




1 oz. rice. : 


1 quart stock (No. S). 




Seasoning. ' 







Cut the bacon small and dissolve it in a stewpan ; cut 
the liver and vegetables into small squares, fry these 
with the herbs and spice briskly for 10 minutes ; add 
stock, rice and seasoning ; cook very slowly for 2 hours, 
stirring occasionally. Take out the parsley and thyme 
and pour into the tureen, or the soup may all be passed 
through a wire sieve. 



MULLAGATAWNY SOUP . 

1^ oz. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 
1 oz. curry powder. 
1 large onion. 
1 carrot. 

1 teaspoon sugar. 
1 sprig parsley. 
1 sprig thyme. 
Salt and pepper. 



No. 24. 



1 apple. 

1 tomato. 

1 oz, desiccated cocoanut. 

1 turnip. 

1 stick celery. 

1 dessertspoon lemon juice. 

3 pints stock (No. 2). 

6 peppercorns. 



Chop all the vegetables up small ; dissolve the butter ; 
fry the vegetables, herbs, spice, flour and curry powder 
for 10 or 15 minutes ; take off the fire, stir in the stock by 
degrees, bring to the boil stirring, add the apple chopped, 
tomato cut up, sugar and cocoanut ; season and simmer 
gently for 2 hours, stirring frequently to prevent the 
soup burning ; pass through a hair sieve, add lemon, 
reheat. Serve with freely boiled rice (No. 422). 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 



MABROW SOUP. 

1 medium sized vegetable 

marrow. 
1 small onion. 
1^ pints stock (No. 2). 



No. 25. 



1 oz. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 
J pint milk. 
Salt and pepper. 



Peel and slice the marrow and onion, melt the butter, 
put in marrow and onion with seasoning, stir over a slow 
fire for 5 or 6 minutes ; add stock and simmer gently for 
30 to 40 minutes ; pass through a hair sieve, bring the 
soup to the boil again with the milk ; mix the flour 
smooth with cold milk and stir in ; cook for 3 or 4 
minutes longer. Serve with fried bread. 



OX TAIL SOUP. 

1 ox tail. 
^ lb. lean beef. 
12 peppercorns. 
1 bay leaf. 
1 sprig parsley. 
1 sprig thyme. 
3 or 4 quarts water. 



No. 26. 



2 carrots. 
2 turnips. 
2 onions. 

2 sticks celery. 

3 cloves. 

2 oz. butter. 

4 oz. flour. 



Blanch the tail by covering it with cold water in a stew- 
pan ; give it one boil up over the fire, take it out and dry 
it on a clean cloth ; joint it up and take away any super- 
fluous fat from the root end. Cut up the beef, also 
vegetables into thick slices ; make the butter smoking hot 
in a stewpan, put in the pieces of tail, beef, vegetables, 
herbs and spices ; fry well for about 15 minutes with the 
pan lid on and shake about, add the water and a table- 
spoon of salt ; bring to the boil and skim very thoroughly, 
then simmer gently for from 4 to 5 hours according to 
the thickness of the tail (it should be quite tender with- 



SOUPS AND STOCKS. 15 

out being raggy) ; strain through a hair sieve ; allow the 
soup to go cold, then take off the fat, take 3 oz. of it and 
make smoking hot ; stir in the flour and fry brown ; add to 
this the soup by degrees ; stir to the boil. Pass the pieces 
of tail through w^arm water to clear them of vegetable 
and fat ; heat them through gently in the soup, and serve. 

POTATO SOUP. ' No. 27. 



1 lb. potatoes. 
1 onion. 
1 turnip. 
1 oz. butter. 
Salt and pepper. 



1 stick celery. 
1^ pint stock (No. 2). 
^ pint milk. 
1 oz. small sago. 



Dissolve the butter in a stewpan (do not allow it to 
brown or it will discolour the soup) ; thoroughly clean the 
vegetables, rinsing them twice ; shce them and fry in the 
butter with the seasoning 5 or 6 minutes slowly ; add the 
stock and simmer gently till the vegetables are quite soft, 
about 1 hour, stirring frequently ; pass through a hair 
sieve, add the milk, bring to the boil again, shake in the 
sago and boil till it turns clear, stirring all the time. 
Serve with small squares of fried bread. The soup can 
be thickened with flour instead of sago if preferred. 

RICE SOUP. No. 28. 



2 oz. Carolina rice. 
1 oz. butter. 
1^ pint stock (No. 3). 
Seasoning. 
1 onion. 



1 oz. bread crumbs. 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

(No. 432). 
^ pint milk. 



Put the stock into a stewpan with the rice washed, the 
onion sliced, butter and seasoning ; simmer very gently 
for about 1 hour, or until the rice is perfectly soft, then 



i6 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 



put in the milk and breadcrumbs ; boil 5 minutes longer, 
put the parsley in the tureen and pour the soup over it. 

N.B. — The soup may be passed through a sieve if 
liked, and if it becomes a little too thick, add more 
stock. 



SHIN OF BEEF SOUP. 

1 lb. lean shin of beef. 
1 quart water. 
1 teaspoon salt. 
6 peppercorns. 
1 oz. small sago. 
1 sprig parslej-. 



No. 29. 



1 carrot. 
1 turnip. 

1 onion. 

2 cloves. 

1 stick celery. 
1 sprig thyme. 



Eemove any fat from the meat and cut it into small 
pieces, put it into a stewpan with the salt and cold water, 
bring to the boil and skim thoroughly ; clean the vege- 
tables, cut them in halves (not in small pieces, or they 
mash up and make the soup cloudy and thick) ; add these, 
with the flavourings and a few drops of caramel (No. 
418) ; simmer the soup very gently for 2 hours, strain 
and let it get cold ; remove the fat, put the soup back 
into the saucepan, bring to the boil, and shake in the 
sago, stirring the while ; boil gently till the sago turns 
clear 5 or 6 minutes. Serve with sippets of dry toast. 

N.B. — Cooked macaroni cut into short lengths, or fanci- 
fully cut, and cooked vegetables might be put into the 
soup for a garnish instead of the sago, or savoury custard 
(No. 199). 



ST. GERMAIN SOUP . 

J pint dried green peas. 
1^ oz. butter. 
IJ oz. flour. 

1 quart stock (No. 2). 



No. 80. 

2 large sprigs mint. 

A few drops green colouring. 

Salt and pepper. 



SOUPS AND STOCKS. 17 

Wash and soak the peas over night, picking out the 
discoloured ones ; boil them in enough cold water to 
cover them, with the mint, and a small piece of fat to 
help to soften them, until they are quite tender 2 to 3 
hours ; drain and pass them through a hair sieve ; dis- 
solve the butter, cook the flour in it a few minutes, take 
off the fire, and stir in the stock and seasoning, boil up, 
stirring all the time ; then whisk the green pea pulp in, 
add colouring if necessary, and boil up the soup. Serve 
with fried bread. 

SCOTCH BROTH. No. 31. 

1 lb. middle neck of mutton. 3 pints water. 



1 carrot. 
1 turnip. 
1 onion. 

1 dessertspoon of salt. 
1 dessertspoon chopped parsley 
(No. 432). 



1 sprig parsley. 
1 sprig thyme. 
1 oz. pearl barley. 
Small suet dumplings. 
Pepper. 



Take away the fat and marrow from the meat and cut it 
into pieces about an inch square ; joint up the bones, put 
them, with the meat, into a saucepan, cover with the 
cold water, add the salt and bring to the boil. Directly 
the scum rises — which will be at boiling-point — draw the 
broth off the fire and skim it w^ell. Have the vegetables 
cleaned and cut into small dice, and the barley blanched 
(No. 425), which add to the broth, with parsley, thyme 
and pepper ; stew all slowly together for about 2 hours, 
until meat and barley are quite tender, and the broth 
nice and thick. 

Half an hour before serving put in the dumplings, take 
out the parsley, thyme and bones, pour the soup over the 
chopped parsley in the tureen. 



i8 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

For the dumplings, take : — 

6 oz. flour. 2 oz. suet. 

^ teaspoon salt. Cold water. 

Skin, shred and chop the suet very finely, using the 
flour to do it with ; add the salt, and mix up into a stiff 
paste with the water. Make up into very small dump- 
lings, rolling them smooth hghtly in the hands. 

SPINACH SOUP. No. 32. 



1^-2 lb. spinach. 
1 oz. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 
Salt and pepper. 



1 small onion. 
1 small blade mace. 
1^ pints stock (No. 2). 
1 tablespoon cream. 



The amount of spinach in this soup must depend a little 
on the size of it — if quite young and small, take 2 lb. ; 
if large, 1^ lb. will do. Thoroughly clean the spinach, 
rinsing it in several waters, and draw off the stalks right 
down the back of the leaves ; put it into a large saucepan, 
and sprinkle it with salt ; allow it to cook down slowly 
till quite tender, about 15 minutes ; drain it and pass it 
through a wire sieve. 

Melt the butter and cook the onion, sliced in it with 
the mace, for 3 or 4 minutes without browning, then 
cook the flom- a little ; take off the fire and add the stock 
and seasoning, boil up and strain, add the puree of spinach 
with a teaspoon of sugar and the cream ; reheat and serve 
with fried bread. 

SPRING SOUP. No. 33. 



1 cauliflower, , 1 carrot. 

2 leeks. 1 turnip, 
^ head of celery. i 1 onion. 

Salt and pepper, j 3 pints stock (No. 1), 

2 thin slices of bread and 1 small bay leaf, 
butter. 



SOUPS AND STOCKS. 19 

Have the stock boiling in a saucepan, nicely seasoned, 
and colour it with a few drops of caramel to a pale sherry 
colour ; break the cauliflower into small sprigs, throw 
them into a pan of boiling salted water for 3 minutes and 
drain (this is to draw out the strong flavour) ; shred the 
other vegetables into fine lengths an inch long. Put all 
into the boiling stock with the bayleaf and boil gently for 
15 or 20 minutes, until they are quite tender but not 
broken. Take out the bayleaf ; cut the bread and butter 
into rounds the size of a shilling with a pastry cutter, 
place them on a baking sheet in the oven, bake them a 
golden colour 5 or 6 minutes. Put these into the soup 
tureen and pour the boiling soup over them. Serve at 
once. 

THICK WHITE SOUP (I.). No. 34. 



1^ oz. butter. 
1^ oz. flour. 
^ pint milk. 
1^ pints stock (No. 2). 



1 onion, 

1 small blade mace. 
1 sprig parsley. 
Salt and pepper. 



Dissolve the butter in a saucepan ; slice the onion 
very thin and fry it with the mace and parsley for 3 or 
4 minutes (do not allow it to brown) ; then add flour and 
fry it a minute or so to make the soup smooth and shiny ; 
take off the fire and stir in the stock and milk, a Httle at 
a time ; stir to the boil, and simmer gently for half an 
hom\ Strain and serve with gi-ated cheese. 



O' 



THICK WHITE SOUP (II.). No. 35 . 

(Witli Forcemeat Balls.) 



1^ oz. butter. 
1^ oz. flour. 
Salt and pepper. 



1^ pints stock (No. 2). 
^ pint milk. 
2 yolks of eggs. 



20 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

Melt the butter and cook the flour in it for a few 
minutes without browning it ; take off the fire, add stock 
by degrees and stir to the boil, first seasoning the soup ; 
mix the yolks well with the milk and stir into the soup 
very slowly, so as not to curdle the eggs ; cook slowly for 
5 minutes ; strain into the tm-een, containing some small 
forcemeat balls. 

For the balls take : — 

2 oz. bread crumbs. ^ oz. butter. 

1 dessertspoon finely chopped Salt and cayenne pepper, 

parsley. ^ teaspoon grated lemon. 

^ teaspoon chopped thyme. Beaten egg. 

Rub the butter well into the breadcrumbs ; add the 
parsley, thyme, lemon and seasoning, and bind the 
mixture into a stiff paste with the egg. Make up into 
balls the size of a small marble, poach them gently in 
some simmering salted water for 3 or 4 minutes ; drain 
on a cloth, and put them into the soup tureen. 

TOMATO SOUP (I.). No. 36. 



^ oz. bacon. 

^ oz. butter. 

1 sprig parsley. 

1 sprig thyme. 

6 peppercorns. 

^ lb. fresh tomatoes. 

1 oz. small sago. 



1 carrot. 

1 turnip. 

1 onion. 

1 stick celery. 

Salt and pepper. 

1^ pints stock (No. 2). 



Take the rind and salted edge from the bacon, cut 
it into small pieces and dissolve it with the butter in 
a stewpan (do not allow it to brown, or it will take off 
the nice red colour of the soup) ; slice the vegetables small 
and thin and fry them with the parsley, thyme and 
peppercorns for 10 minutes, slowly stirring them well 



SOUPS AND STOCKS, 21 

about, add the tomatoes sliced, stock and seasoning ; 
simmer all gently for 1^ to 2 hours ; pass through a hair 
sieve, bring again to the boil, shake in the sago and boil 
gently, stirring until the sago turns clear. Serve with 
fried bread. 

TOMATO SOUP (II.). No. -37. 

1 tin tomatoes. 1 pint milk. 

IJ oz. cornflour. ^ teaspoon carbonate soda. 

1 oz. butter. Salt and pepper. 
1 pint stock (No. 2). 

Pass the tin of tomatoes through a hair sieve into 
a basin, stir the soda into the puree, cover the basin and 
let it stand by for half an hour (this will take off the 
acidity of the tomatoes) ; boil the stock and milk together ; 
mix the cornflour into a smooth cream with a little milk ; 
pour on the boiling stock, return to the saucepan and 
boil for 5 or 6 minutes, stirring well ; add the butter bit 
by bit, and when it is quite incorporated, take the soup 
off" the fire and whisk in the tomato pulp ; season and 
simmer the soup gently for 10 minutes longer, when it is 
ready to serve. 

WHITE FISH SOUP. No. 38. 



1 quart stock (No. 2). 
1 small carrot. 
1 small turnip. 
1 small onion. 
Salt and pepper. 
1 dessertspoon finely chopped 
parsley (No. 432). 



2 whiting. 

1 sprig parsley. 

1 small bay leaf. 

1 small blade mace. 

2 oz. butter. 
2 oz. flour. 

^ pint milk. 



Put the stock into a stewpan with the whiting cut up, 
the vegetables left in large blocks, seasoning, herbs and 



22 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

spice ; simmer these gently for 1 horn', skimming well 
if necessary ; strain through a fine strainer ; dissolve the 
butter, cook the flom- in it for 3 or 4 minutes, then stir in 
the stock by degrees, and milk (this is best done off the 
fire), boil for 5 minutes, stirring. Put the parsley into the 
tureen and strain the soup over. Serve with fried bread. 
N.B. — About 1 dozen bearded oysters might be served 
in this soup. 

FRIED BREAD FOR SOUPS. No. 39. 



Cut 2 or 3 slices of rather stale bread a quarter of an 
inch thick, or even a little less ; remove the crusts, and 
cut the bread into tiny squares; put these into a frying 
basket, shake out the loose crumbs, and plunge the 
basket into the frying fat (which must be smoking hot) ; 
fry to a golden brown, drain well, and turn out on 
kitchen paper. Serve on a dish paper very hot. 



23 



PISH. 

It is almost useless to put down any hard and fast rules 
by which to cook fish, as nearly each variety requires 
different treatment, either in boiling, steaming, frying or 
cooking in any of the various ways to send it to table in 
anything like perfection. So, instead, I shall endeavour 
in the following recipes to point out the methods best 
adapted to each kind. 

I may, however, mention here that the cooking of fish 
requires the utmost care and attention — more, I think, 
than any other kind of food. It is easily spoilt and made 
hard, tasteless and indigestible — to say nothing of 
quickly detracting its nutritive value by careless cooking. 

BOILED CODFISH. No. 40. 

Only sufficient water should be used in boiling all 
kinds of fish, just to cover it ; a great weight of water 
breaks it. Have the water gently simmering in the fish- 
kettle or saucepan with a teaspoon of salt to each pint, 
also 3 drops of vinegar to each pint. Well wash the fish, 
and, if not using a strainer, tie it loosely in muslin ; let 
it carefully down into the water, and simmer very gently 
the whole time of cooking. It should on no account 
boil, or it will be made tough or " woolly". Weigh the 
fish and allow 10 minutes to each pound and 10 minutes 
over, unless the fish is very thick, in which case allow a 



24 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

little more time. Drain the fish thoroughly, remove the 
muslin without breaking the skin at all ; place it on a 
napkin, and garnish with small quarters of lemon and 
sprigs of parsley. Serve with oyster, shrimp, egg or 
parsley sauce. 

BAKED CODFISH. No. 41. 



1 lb. codfish. 

1 dessertspoon lemon juice. 

1 pint cream sauce (No. 113). 



^ oz. butter. 

Salt and caj-enne pepper. 

Red breadcrumbs. 



Spread half the butter on a baking- tin, wash and dry 
the fish, place it on the tin, season with salt and cayenne, 
and sprinkle the lemon juice over ; cover with a piece 
of kitchen paper greased with the rest of the butter ; 
press the paper well down over the fish to keep in the 
steam in cooking. Bake in a very slow oven for 20 
minutes or half an hour ; take off the skin, place the 
fish on a dish and coat over nicely with the cream sauce ; 
garnish with red breadcrumbs and parsley. 

BAKED WHITING . No. 42. 

3 small whiting. 1 dessertspoon chopped parsley. 

^ teaspoon finely chopped 1 dessertspoon lemon juice. 

onion. | pint cream sauce (No. 113). 

Salt and cayenne. 1 oz. butter. 
1 tablespoon red breadcrumbs. 

Spread a little of the butter on a baking-tin, place the 
whiting on it, sprinkle them with salt, cayenne, parsley, 
onion, lemon juice, and lastly red breadcrumbs ; place 
Hghtly over them a buttered paper (using the rest of the 
butter), bake very slowly for 10 minutes ; take off the 
paper, disli the fish prettily and pour the sauce round 



FISH. 



25 



them. Place little sprigs of parsley in the eyes of the 
fish. 



BAKED MACKEREL. 

2 mackerel. 

legg. 

Salt and pepper. 

1 oz. butter. 

Red breadcrumbs. 



No. 43. 



2 oz. breadcrumbs. 
1 dessertspoon parsley. 
1 dessertspoon suet. 
^ teaspoon thyme. 



Thoroughly clean the fish, using a little salt if necessary 
to take oif the blood and black skin from the inside ; split 
them open down the front of the body and take out the 
backbones ; spread half the butter on a baking tin ; place 
one mackerel on the tin, skin side downwards ; chop 
the suet, parsley and thyme finely, mix them wdth the 
breadcrumbs, season and add enough of the egg beaten 
to form a stiffish forcemeat ; spread this thickly over the 
mackerel on the tin, place the other mackerel on top, 
brush over with the other half of the butter and sprinkle 
with the red crumbs. Bake slowly for 15 to 20 minutes, 
and serve with mustard sauce (No. 122) poured round. 



CODFISH PIE. 

1 lb. codfish, or 

The remains of any cold fish. 

1 oz. butter. 

f oz. flour. 

Salt and pepper. 



No. 44. 

^ pint milk. 
1 blade mace. 

1 lb. mashed potatoes (No. 
151). 



Boil the fish, take aw^ay the skin and bones, and break 
it into large flakes ; dissolve the butter, cook the mace 
and flour in it for 2 or 3 minutes ; take off the fire and 
stir in the milk, season and boil up, stirring all the time ; 
add the prepared fish, and pour into a buttered pie-dish; 



26 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

spread over this a thick crust of mashed potatoes, using 
a knife dipped in hot water for smoothing it over ; brush 
the top of the pie with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate 
oven for half an hour. Serve garnished mth parsley. 

N.B. — A short pastry lid may be put over instead of 
the potato crust if preferred. 

CASSEROLE OF FISH. No. 45. 

J lb. cold cooked fish. 1 2 hard boiled eggs. 

J lb. mashed potatoes. Salt and pepper. 

^ pint melted butter or cream. | 1 teaspoon anchovy essence. 

Well butter a plain mould and coat it thickly with red 
or brown breadcrumbs ; chop the eggs roughly, flake the 
hsh and mix all the ingredients together, pour carefully 
into the tin, cover with a greased paper and bake in 
a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. Turn 
out and pour melted butter or anchovy sauce round. 

DRIED HADDOCK. No. 46. 



These are better cooked in the oven than boiled. Well 
grease a baking tin, scald the fish with boiling water for 
3 or 4 minutes ; dry it, place it on the tin and cover with 
a well-greased paper ; bake slowly for from 10 to 15 
minutes, according to the size of the fish. In serving, 
pour the liquor from the tin over it and rub a little more 
butter on if required. 

FRESH HADDOCK AU GRATIN. No. 47. 

1 good-sized fresh haddock. Salt and pepper. 

1 oz. brown breadcrumbs. 1^ oz. butter. 

Cut open the fish down the front of the body, take out 
the back bone, season the fish well with salt and pepper, 



FISH. 27 

and sprinkle with the breadcrumbs (this part is better 
done over night and the fish hung up till morning) ; then 
rub the skin side of the tish well with flour (this will 
make it easier to fry without sticking to the pan) ; make 
the butter smoking hot in a frying-pan, put in the fish 
and gently shake the pan at once, and all the time of 
cooking baste the top of the fish with the butter which 
will cook it enough without turning, fry in this way for 
about 10 minutes, lift carefully on to a hot dish and 
serve with parsley to garnish, or dressed tomatoes 
(No. 145) round the dish. 

FRIED FILLETS OF PLAICE. No. 48. 



6 or 8 fillets of plaice. 
Salt and pepper. 
Parsley. 



1 dessertspoon flour, 
1 beaten egg. 
White breadcrumbs. 



Wash and dry the fillets on a cloth ; cut them into two 
or three slanting-wise, so that they will curl prettily in 
frying ; mix together the flour, salt and pepper, and dip 
each fillet in it (this is to thoroughly dry the fish to make 
the egg and crumbs adhere properly). 

Have the egg on a plate, and use a brush and knife ; 
egg each piece well with the brush, drain and throw them 
into a large heap of breadcrumbs (No. 421) ; shake otf 
all loose crumbs, passing the fish from one hand to the 
other lightly ; plunge into smoking hot fat (No. 413) and 
fry to a golden brown ; drain on kitchen paper and dress 
in a circle on a dish paper, and place fried parsley in the 
centre. 

N.B. — All fish would be fried in the same way. A 
frying basket may be used or not according to con- 
venience. 



28 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

FILLETS OF PLAICE WITH WHITE SAUCE. No. 49. 

1 medium-sized plaice. { f pint fish sauce (No. 117). 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. I Salt and pepper. 

Wash and dry the plaice on a cloth, and remove the 
fillets carefully thus : Take a sharp knife and cut a clean 
cut right down the middle of the fish from head to tail ; 
then raise the fillets from the bones, keeping the knife 
flat on the bone and taking long clean cuts (not jagging, 
or the fish will be wasted) ; season the fillets and fold 
them into three, skin side inside, or they will unroll in 
the cooking ; place them on a buttered baking- tin, sprinkle 
the lemon over them, and cover closely with buttered 
paper. They should be kept quite white in the cooking. 
Bake in a slow oven for from 7 to 15 minutes, according 
to the size ; dish up nicely and coat over with the 
sauce. Decorate with red crumbs or chopped parsley. 

FILLETS OF PLAICE WITH TOMATO SAUCE. No. 50. 

These are done in exactly the same way as in the 
preceding recipe, only coated with tomato sauce (No. 
131), in which the bones of the fish should be simmered 
for a few minutes. 

Fillets of sole, whiting or mackerel are all good done 
in the same way. 

FILLETS OF TURBOT. No. 51. 



1 small turbot. 

legg. 

Salt and pepper. 

Breadcrumbs. 



1 dessertspoon parsley. 

1 dessertspoon oil. 

1 dessertspoon vinegar. 



Wash, dry the fish and remove the fillets as in recipe 
No. 49 ; cut them into strips about 1 inch wide, and in 



FISH, 29 

length, the width of the fish from the middle to fins ; 
mix on a plate the egg well beaten, oil, vinegar, parsley 
finely chopped, salt and pepper ; lay the fillets in this 
for half an hour or so ; take them out and coat them 
nicely with fine white or red breadcrumbs ; place in the 
frying basket, and fry in smoking hot fat to a golden 
brown (not too fiercely or the fish will be hard) ; drain, 
dish on a paper in cross bars, and decorate with fried 
parsley. Serve with gherkin sauce (No. 119). 

FISH IN BATTER. No. 52. 

2 or 3 whiting. [ 4 oz. flour. 

1 gill tepid water. 1 egg. 

Salt and pepper. 1 teaspoon salad oil. 

Cut the fish, after washing and drying them, carefully 
down the back, and take off the fillets without breaking ; 
put the flour in a basin, make a hole in the centre, drop 
in the yolk, a little salt and pepper, and the salad oil ; 
stir into a batter with the water, beat it well till smooth 
and light; whisk the white of the egg to a stiff froth 
with pinch of salt and a clean knife on a plate, and just 
before frying stir it lightly into the batter ; cut each 
fillet of fish into three, dip into the batter, take out with 
a skewer, and drop carefully into smoking hot fat ; fry to 
a golden brown , turning the pieces over with a fish slice ; 
drain on kitchen paper, and serve with fried parsley (No. 
431) or tomato sauce (No. 131). 

FISH PUDDING. No. 53. 

2 oz. butter. 



1 lb. cooked fish. 

2 oz. breadcrumbs. 
Salt and pepper. 
1 gill milk. 

Chop the fish fine, and cook it in the butter till hot, 



2 eggs. 

Little grated nutmeg. 



30 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

stirring it about ; boil the milk and pour over the bread- 
crumbs ; when well soaked, add them to the fish with 
the eggs and seasoning ; beat all well together, pour into 
a well-buttered basin, just large enough to hold it, cover 
with a greased paper, and steam gently for 1 hour. 
Serve with a nice anchovy sauce poured over. 
N.B. — This pudding may be baked for 40 minutes. 

FILLETS OF SOLE. No. 54. 



2 small soles. f pint gherkin sauce (No. 119). 

8 small potatoes. Little lemon juice. 

Salt and cayenne. Dressed spinach (No. 144). 

Remove the fillets from the bones (No. 49), trim the 
potatoes round in shape, and roll the fillets round them 
so as to keep the centres hollow ; place them on a 
buttered baking-sheet, season and sprinkle with the lemon, 
cover with greased paper, and bake in a slow oven for 7 
to 10 minutes ; take out the potato carefully, place the 
rings of sole on a dish and coat them over with the sauce ; 
fill up the centre with spinach, which should be rather 
soft with cream. 

FISH CURRY. No. 55. 



1 lb. of cooked fish. 

1 oz. butter. 

^ oz. curry powder. 

f oz. flour. 

I pint milk. 



1 oz. cocoanut. 

1 onion. 

Salt. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 



Soak the cocoanut in the milk for half an hour ; strain 
it ; slice the onion very thin and cook it in the butter 
for 10 minutes without turning its colour, add flour and 
curry powder, cook a little, then off the fire ; stir in the 
milk, bring to the boil (stirring), season, and put in the 



FISH. 31 

fish in large flakes, having taken away skin and bones ; 
cook very slowly for half an hour, add lemon, and serve 
in a border of rice (No. 422). 

HADDOCK A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. No. 56. 



1 dessertspoon parsley. 
1 pint water. 
Salt and cayenne. 



1 fresh haddock. 

1 oz. butter. 

1 oz. flour. 

1 dessertspoon lemon juice. 

Cut the fish down the back, and take off the fillets 
carefully ; cut each one into three, place these on a 
buttered baking-tin, season with salt and cayenne, and 
sprinkle with a little lemon juice ; cover with a greased 
paper, and bake slowly for 15 minutes. In the mean- 
time, simmer the bones of the fish in the w^ater for 5 or 6 
minutes, strain the stock, melt the butter, cook the flour 
in it a minute or so, then add fish stock by degrees ; stir 
to the boil, season, add the lemon juice and parsley 
chopped very fine (No. 432). Place the fillets neatly on 
the dish in a circle, and coat over with the mditre d'Jtotel 
sauce. 

ROLLED HERRINGS. No. 57. 

6 fresh herrings. l Forcemeat (No. 43). 

1 oz. dripping. | Salt and pepper. 

Scale the herrings thoroughly, cut them open, take out 
the roes ; clean and dry the fish, remove the back bones 
so that the fish will roll up, spread a little forcemeat over 
each of the herrings, and lay on this half a roe (soft ones 
are the best), roll the fish up and rub them over with 
flour ; place them in a baking-tin with the dripping, and 
bake for 15 to 20 minutes, basting them once or twice 
while they are cooking. Place them on a dish and garnish 



32 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

with parsley. These may be served with mustard sauce 
(No. 122). 

SCOLLOPED OYSTERS. No. 58. 

2 doz. oysters. i 4 oz. breadcrumbs. 

J pint white sauce (No. 133). | 1 oz. butter. 

Beard the oysters and take away the hard muscles ; 
heat the white sauce and add the oyster liquor, if there 
is any ; stir in the oysters whole ; butter some small 
scollop • shells or ramequins, and sprinkle them with 
breadcrumbs ; then put in a little of the fish mixture and 
a layer of breadcrumbs, and so on until the shells are 
sufficiently filled to look nice, using breadcrumbs last. 
Place a small pat of butter on top of each, and bake in a 
moderate oven 15 to 20 minutes. Serve in the shells 
and garnish with parsley. 



STEWED SOLE. No. 59. 

1 sprig parsley. 

1 shalot. 

4 peppercorns. 



1 medium-sized sole. 
J pint Liebig's beef tea. 
Salt and cayenne. 
^ oz. butter. 



Skin the sole ; egg, breadcrumb and fry it to a golden 
brown colour (No. 48) ; drain well on kitchen paper ; put 
into a stewpan sufficiently large to hold the sole, without 
curling or breaking it, the beef tea, parsley, pepper- 
corns, shalot whole, butter and seasoning ; bring to the 
simmering point, lay in the fried sole, and cook very 
gently for 15 to 20 minutes. Place on a dish and strain 
the sauce round. 

jV.^. — To make the beef tea, take half a teaspoon of 
Liebig's meat extract and dissolve it in 1^ gills boiling 
water. 



FISH. 33 

SHRIMP PUFFS . No. 60. 

^ pint picked shrimps. 1 oz. butter. 

IJ gills shrimp stock. 1 oz. flour. 

1 small teaspoon curry powder. Salt. 

Simmer the shells of the shrimps in the water for 
5 minutes, strain ; melt the butter, cook the flour and 
curry powder in it and stir in the stock, season and boil ; 
mince the shrimps and put into the sauce. 

Make 4 oz. short crust (No. 239) without the baking 
powder, roll out very thin and cut into rounds ; place 
a good teaspoon of the mixture on one side of the pastry, 
wet the edges and press together, or fold into three- 
cornered shapes, which are prettier, and fry in smoking 
hot fat 3 or 4 minutes. Serve with fried parsley. 

SALMON WITH PICCALILLI SAUCE. No. 61. 



2 slices of salmon. l 1 oz. butter. 

^ pint stock (No. .3). 1 small Spanish onion. 

J oz. flour. ; 3 tablespoons piccalilli. 

Fry the salmon in a very little hot butter on both 
sides, chop the onion very fine and fry it a light brown 
in the butter, add flour and stock, season and stir to the 
boil ; mix in gradually the piccalilli ; lay the slices of 
salmon in this sauce, cover with a greased paper and 
stew gently for about half an hour. Serve with the 
sauce poured over. 

N.B. — Mackerel cooked in this way is very nice. 

STUFFED HADDOCK. No. 62. 



Forcemeat (No. 43). 
2 oz. dripping. 



1 fresh haddock. 
Brown breadcrumbs. 
Half a beaten egg. 

Wash and dry the fish well ; lay the forcemeat neatlv 

3 



34 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

in the stomach and sew up with as few stitches as possible ; 
rub flour all over to dry the skin and truss in the shape 
of the letter "S"; brush over with the egg and cover 
with crumbs, lift carefully on to a tin containing the 
dripping ; bake in a moderate oven for 15 to 20 minutes, 
Dasting several times as soon as the crumb-casing is 
well set. Take out trussing strings and place on a dish, 
with parsley in the eye cavities, and anchovy sauce 
(No. 106) poured round. 

SALT COD. No. 63. 

This fish if very dry should be soaked for several hours 
in cold water, and two waters are better than one. 

It should be boiled very gently and put on in warm 
water, in order to draw out the salt. It takes about the 
same time as fresh fish to cook after being soaked ; drain 
well after cooking, place it on a napkin, garnish with 
lemon and parsley. Serve with egg sauce and mashed 
parsnips. 

SALMON CUTLETS. No. 64. 

6 oz. cold cooked salmon. 1 oz. butter. 

1 gill milk. 1 oz. flour. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. ' Salt and cayenne. 
Egg and breadcrumbs. 

Chop the salmon with a sharp knife very fine; melt 
the butter, stir in the flour and milk, boil to a thick 
sauce, season, add the salmon and lemon juice, mix well 
and turn out on a plate to set and cool ; make up into 
small cutlets the shape of a flattened pear, egg and 
breadcrumb them, fry in a basket to a golden colour in 
smoking hot fat ; drain, dish in a circle and place fried 
parsley (No. 431) in the centre. 



FISH. 35 

TARANTO OYSTERS. No. 66. 



1 doz. oysters. 

2 oz. Parmesan cheese. 
Cayeune and salt. 

^ pint good stock. 



1 oz. macaroni. 
1 oz. butter. 
J gill cream. 



Beard, and chop the oysters roughly, stew the macaroni 
until quite tender in the stock, strain and chop it finely ; 
melt the butter in a saucepan, add the macaroni, oysters, 
cheese grated, cream and seasoning ; make all hot, but 
do not boil ; fill some small ramequins, sprinkle the top 
with a little red breadcrumbs and grated cheese ; brown 
before the fire or in the oven for a few minutes without 
drying the mixture, and serve very hot. 

TURBOT A LA CREME. No. 66. 



J lb. cooked turbot. 

^ gill cream. 

Sippets of fried bread. 



^ pint cream sauce (No. 113). 
A little lemon juice. 



Heat the cream sauce, take away the bones and dark 
skin from the turbot and break it into large flakes ; put 
these into the hot sauce, add the cream and lemon juice 
gradually, season nicely with salt and cayenne pepper, 
and thoroughly w^arm the fish through without boiling 
the sauce or it might curdle ; turn out on a dish, and 
place sippets round. 



36 



MEAT DISHES. 

BRAISED NECK OF MUTTON. No. 67 . 

1^-2 lb. best eud neck of 1 pint stock (No. 3). 



mutton. 
2 carrots. 
2 turnips. 
2 onions. 

Half a head celery. 
Red breadcrui^ibs. 
^ oz. flour. I t^rC^ 



1 sprig parsley. 
1 sprig thyme. 
G peppercorns. 
1 small bay leaf. 
Salt and pepper. , 
^ oz. butter. 1 ^V 



Saw off the spine bone, and trim off all but a thin layer 
of the fat from the mutton ; put the stock into a sauce- 
pan with the herbs, spices and vegetables ; cut up into 
diamond or square blocks ; bring this to the boil ; place 
the mutton on top of the vegetables, cover with a greased 
paper and the lid of the pan, and simmer very gently for 
about 1^ to 2 hours ; take out the meat and sprinkle the 
fat side \\4th red breadcrumbs ; place on a dish with the 
vegetables arranged nicely round it ; strain the braising 
stock, melt the butter and fry the flour brown in it ; 
add the stock, previously removing the fat from it with 
kitchen paper ; boil up, season nicel5^ ^^^^ strain round 
the mutton. A few drops of caramel (No. 418) must 
be used if the sauce is not brown enough. 

N.B. — Braising is an excellent method of cooking any 
kind of meat. It is an easy and economical way too, 



MEAT DISHES. 37 

retaining the nourishment, juices and flavour, and keeps 
the meat more tender than stewing, as it is generally 
done. 

BEEF CURRY. No. C8. 

1 lb. fillet of beef. 1 oz. desiccated eocoanut.A^'*^'^^ 

1 large onion. 1 teaspoon brown sugac. 

1 apple. ^ oz. curry powder. 1 "U^^^f^ 

1 tomato. J oz. flour. ^ v^\~' 

Salt. 1 gill stock (No.2),J/t^^ 

Little lemon juice. 1 oz. butter. ( tM^f^ 

Heat the butter, slice the onion very thin, and fry to 
a light brown ; add flour and curry powder, fry a little 
to take off the roughness, stir in the stock and salt, boil 
to a thick sauce ; drop the tomato into boiling water for 
half a minute, skin it and slice thin ; chop the apple ; 
add these to the sauce with sugar and cocoanut ; take 
fat and skin from the meat and cut it into 1 inch squares ; 
put into the pan, and simmer all very gently for 1| to 2 
hours; add lemon juice and serve the curry with freely 
boiled rice (No. 42^). 

X.B. — This will be found a very thick sauce at fiist, 
but will thin down with the juices from the fruit and 
meat. 

BEEF OLIVES. No. 69. 



1 lb. rump steak. 

Veal forcemeat (No. 180). 

Mashed potatoes (No. 151). 



1 pint brown sauce (No. 109). 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

^ lb. tomatoes (No. 145). | O 



Cut the steak into thin slices about 4 inches long and 
3 inches wide ; beat them even with a cutlet bat or 
rolling pin and trim the edges neatly ; shred the trim- 
mings and put them into the forcemeat ; spread a little 



38 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

of this down the centre of each slice of beef, roll up 
loosely and tie round with string or cotton (not too tight, 
or it will make an ugly mark) ; heat the sauce, lay the 
olives in it and stew very gently with the lemon juice for 
1^ to 2 hours ; take off the string, dish nicely on a bed 
or border of mashed potato, pour the sauce over and 
round, and garnish with tlie tomatoes. 



BOILED MUTTON. No. 70. 

2-3 lb. middle or best eud ueck 1 carrot, 

of mutton. , 1 turnip. 

2 oz. Carolina rice./. lA^'^ 1 onion. 

1 oz. butter. ' t^ ' r^ 1 sprig parsley. 

1 oz. flour. 2. t/^'' ^ i pint milk. I O 

Salt and pepper. 1 tablespoon chopped parsley-. 

A nice stock should be prepared to boil the mutton in 
in this way : — 

Put into a stewpan just enough cold water to cover 
the meat, wash the rice, and cut the vegetables all into 
small squares ; put these into the water with seasoning 
and parsley, and cook gently for 1 hour. See that the 
joint is properly jointed, cut away any superfluous fat 
and the marrow running along the bones. Weigh the 
meat and allow 20 minutes to each pound and 20 minutes 
over ; put it into the prepared stock, draw to the side of 
the fire, and simmer it gently the whole time of cooking. 
Take up and coat over with the following sauce, place 
small heaps of rice and vegetables round as a garnish. 

Sauce. — Melt the butter, cook the flour a minute or so 
in it, add the milk and half a pint of the mutton broth, 
season and stir to the boil ; cook 3 or 4 minutes, add 
parsley (No. 432). 



MEAT DISHES, 3g 

BEEF STEAK PIE. No. 71. 



1 lb. rump steak. 

4 oz. beef kidney. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 

1 oz. flour. XJ/ -' ! ■■ 

^ pint stock or water. 



I teaspoon thyme. 

Salt and pepper, 

^ lb. rough puff pastry (No. 

238). 



Gut the steak into very tliiu slices, also the kidney, 
taking away skin and gristle from both ; mix the flour, 
salt and pepper on a plate, dip the meat into it, and roll 
a piece of kidney and fat into each slice, place the rolls 
lightly in a pie dish, and sprinkle them with parsley and 
thyme chopped very fine ; add the water, roll the pastry 
out about a quarter of an inch thick ; wet the edge of 
the pie dish, and line it with strips of pastry the same 
width, easing them round to allow for shrinking ; wet the 
edge of pastry and place a lid on, pressing it lightly to 
the lining, flake round the edge of the pastry with the 
back of a knife ; make a hole in the centre of the pie, 
and arrange some small leaves of pastry round it, put a 
rose or frill in the hole, brush the top all over with 
beaten egg, and bake the pie about an hour and a half. 

N.B. — Cook the pastry in a hot part of the oven for 
about 20 minutes, then only a cool oven is required to 
cook the meat slowly. 

BAKED VEAL OLIVES. No. 72. 



1 lb. lean veal cutlet. Forcemeat (No. 180). 

4 oz. fat bacon. | pint brown sauce (No. 109). 

Cut the veal into thin slices 4 inches long and about 
8 inches wide, spread a little of the forcemeat down the 
centre of each and roll them up ; trim nicely and wrap 
each one in a slice of fat bacon cut very thin, place them 
in a baking- tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about 40 



40 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 



minutes, or until the veal is quite tender, basting them 
from time to time with the fat ; dish them on a border 
of mashed potato or spinach, and pour the sauce round ; 
garnish with slices of lemon and hard boiled egg. 

N.B. — These are nice served with tomato sauce (No. 
131) instead of brown. 



BRAISED FILLET OF BEEF. 

1^-2 lb. lean fillet. 

2 carrots. 

2 turnips. 

2 onions. 

2 lettuces. 

Half a head celery. 



No. 73. 



Horse raddish. 
1 sprig parsley. 
1 sprig thyme. 
6 peppercorns. 
1^ pints stock (No. 
4 small tomatoes. 



3). 



Cut the carrots and turnips into oblong shapes, trim 
the lettuces and celery, leave the tomatoes and onions 
whole ; put these into a stewpan with the herbs, spices 
and stock, bring to the boil, lay the fillet trimmed on the 
top, cover with a greased paper, and simmer gently until 
the meat is tender 1^ to 2 hours ; place the meat on a 
dish and arrange the vegetables round it ; strain the stock 
and remove any fat with kitchen paper ; add a few drops 
of caramel (No. 418), and boil quickly to half its quantity 
with the lid of the pan off; pour this over and round 
the meat, and serve garnished with grated horse raddish. 



CALF'S HEAD ROLLED. 

Half a calf's head. 
Yolk of one egg. 
Grated nutmeg. 
3 oz. streak}' bacon. 

2 mushrooms. 

3 oz. breadcrumbs. 



No. 74. 



1 oz. butter, l^^'-- ^ 
1 dessertspoon parsley, 
^ teaspoon thyme. 
Seasoning. 
1 gill milk. 



Soak the head in chilled water in which there is 



MEAT DiShES. 41 

some salt for nearly 2 hours ; cut out the tongue 
and brains, then cut away the splinter bones and any- 
thing discoloured and thoroughly clean it ; with a 
sharp knife bone the head (this is easily done, beginning 
at the thin side, raising the meat from the bones) ; spread 
the meat out and season it well with salt and pepper ; 
boil the milk, pour it over the bread and soak it ; melt the 
butter, add the parsley and thyme finely chopped, nutmeg 
seasoning and bread ; stir to a hot paste over the fire, 
take off, and beat in the yolk ; spread this panada thick 
over the head and lay on next strips of the bacon and 
mushrooms, roll up and tie tightly in a pudding cloth. 
Put the bones into a pan with 3 quarts of cold water, and 
1 dessertspoon of salt, bring to the boil, skim thoroughly. 
Boil the rolled head in this for 1^ to 2 hours, take off the 
cloth, dish, and coat over with a pint of sauce (No. 132) 
in which place 1 tablespoon finely-chopped parsley. 

The tongue can also be boiled in the stock skinned 
and used as a garnish. The brains skin carefully ; after 
soaking in warm salt water, tie them in muslin and boil 
10 minutes in the stock ; when cold slice into half -inch 
pieces, egg and breadcrumb them and fry in hot fat ; 
place round the dish. 

N.B. — There will be an excellent stock for mock turtle 
soup. 

CHICKEN WITH TOMATOES. No. 75. 

1 lb. tomatoes. 



1 chicken. 

C white peppercorns. 

1 sprig parsley. 

Seasoning. 



J pint white stock. 
1 oz. butter. I ^y^ 
1 oz. flour. LX^^ 



2 oz. long macaroni. I Bacon. 

Truss the chicken for boiling, cut the tomatoes into 



42 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 



halves, place them in the bottom of a stewpau just large 
enough to hold the chicken, also parsley, peppercorns, 
stock and seasoning ; bring to the boil ; place the 
chicken on top, cover with a greased paper and braise 
gently for 1 hour; pass the tomatoes, etc., through a 
wire sieve ; melt the butter in a saucepan, cook the floui* 
in it, and stir in the tomatoes ; boil ; add the macaroni, 
cooked, and cut into short diamond-shaped lengths ; boil 
all together, stirring, for 5 minutes. Dish the chicken 
and pour the tomatoes over ; garnish with sippets of fried 
bread. 



No. 76. 



^ oz. bacon. . 

^ oz. butter, (t^) 

J pint stock (No. 3). 

Sprig of parsley and thyme. 

4 peppercorns. 



COMPOTE OF PIGEONS. 
2 pigeons. 
^ oz. flour. 
1 strip orange rind. 
Salt and cayenne. 
Mashed potato. 

Split the pigeons in half ; cut the bacon up small and 
make it hot in a stewpan ; fry the pigeons briskly, brown 
on both sides ; take out, fry the flour, parsley, thyme 
and peppercorns brown ; add the stock otf the fire, stir 
to the boil ; place the pigeons in the sauce, add orange 
rind and a wineglass of port ; simmer gently from 40 
minutes to 1 hour ; arrange them on a bed of mashed 
potato, and strain the sauce over. 



FILLETS OF HARE. 

1 small hare. 

1 carrot. 

1 turnip. 

1 onion. 

1 pint water. 

1 wineglass sheiry. 

1 orange. 



No. 77. 



Slices of bacon. 
Sprig parsley. 
Sprig thyme. 
6 peppercorns 
1 oz. butter 
1 oz. flour. 
6 cherries. 



ns. I , 



MEAT DISHES. 43 

Cut the fillets from the hare into pieces J of an inch 
thick, and not too small, as they shrink in the cooking ; 
season them with salt and pepper, and place a thin slice of 
bacon on each ; cut the vegetables into blocks ; put them 
in a pan with the stock, some hare bones, parsley, thyme 
and peppercorns ; bring to the boil ; place the fillets 
on top of vegetables, cover with a greased paper and 
simmer till the hare is quite tender ; arrange them 
round a border of mashed potato ; strain the stock 
and make it into a thick sauce with the flour and butter ; 
add the sherry and coat the fillets over ; quarter the 
orange, taking away all the pith, and boil it with the 
cherries in one tablespoon of sherry until tender (a few^ 
minutes will do this). Put in centre of dish. 

FILLETS OF BEEF WITH SHRIMPS. No. 78. 



1 lb. tender rump steak. 
J pint good gravy or stock. 
I pint picked shrimps. 



1 oz. butter, i - 
J oz. flour. ( V-"- 
Salt and cayenne. 



Make the butter hot in a frying-pan ; cut the steak 
into neat round fillets and fry them briskly, turning 
frequently, for 8 or 10 minutes ; take out and place 
down the centre of a hot dish ; fry the flour brown in 
the butter ; stir in the stock and boil ; season and add 
the shrimps. Warm them through in the sauce, but do 
not boil them. Pour this all over the fillets and serve. 

HARICOT STEAK. No. 79. 

1 lb. rump steak. j 1 oz. dripping or butter. { V^-Ap 
1 onion. 1 oz. flour. l^W^ 

1 carrot. 1 pint water. 

1 turnip. Salt and pepper. 

^ pint small haricot beans. 

Slice tlie onion very thin and fry it in the butter melted; 



44 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

drain it and fry the steak on either side to a good 
brown quickly ; take it out and fry the flour brown ; 
add the water, seasoning and stir to the boil ; take off 
the fire and put in the onion, carrot and turnip ; cut 
into small dice the haricots, which should have been 
gently boiling for 1^ hours ; place the steak on top, 
and stew all slowiy together for 1^ to 2 hours. In 
sei*ving take up the meat on a dish, strain the sauce 
over it, and place the vegetables in a border all round 
the dish. 

IRISH STEW. No. 80. 

1^-2 lb. middle neck of mutton. 2 onions. 
3 lb. potatoes. 1 pint water. 

Salt and pepper. Flour. 

Cut most of the fat off the meat ; take out the marrow 
running along the bones ; cut into neat joints not too 
large ; put this into a stewpan, add a teaspoon of salt 
and the water cold, bring to the boil, and directly the 
scum rises take the pan off the fire and skim thoroughly. 
Put in the onion sliced thinly, a little pepper, and dredge 
the gravy with flour slightly. (This should be done three 
or four times before the potatoes are put in ; it takes up 
the fat and thickens the gravy.) Simmer gently for an 
hour ; peel the potatoes and put them whole on the 
top of the meat ; cook slowly again until the potatoes 
are done. Arrange the potatoes round the dish with 
the meat and gravy in the centre. 

LAMB CUTLETS. No. 81. 



1^-2 lbs. neck of lamb. j ^ lb. tomatoes, i . 

1 teaspoon chopped onion. 1 oz. butter, i ^ -^ » 
^ teaspoon chopped parsley. j Salt and pepper. 

2 tablespoons water. i Green peas. 



MEAT DISHES. 45 

Gut and trim the cutlets, brush them over with salad 
oil, and grill them over a clear fire for 8 or 10 minutes, 
turning them frequently to prevent them getting dry or 
burnt. Drop the tomatoes into boiling water for half a 
minute, peel and slice them, put them into a saucepan 
with the water, butter, parsley, onion and seasoning ; 
simmer till quite a soft pulp 10 minutes. Arrange the 
cutlets in a circle on a dish, pour the tomatoes round, 
and put a heap of peas in the centre. 



MUTTON HOT POT. No. 82. 

Trimmings from mutton cut- 2 lb. potatoes. 

lets. , Salt and pepper. 

1 onion. , * i | pint stock (No. 3). 

1 oz. flour. OtA^"-'^ I 

Take some of the fat away and cut the meat into small 
joints ; slice the onion, put in a pie dish a layer of meat, 
then onion, and sprinkle freely with flour, salt and pepper, 
then more meat, and so on till the dish is three parts full ; 
peel and cut the potatoes in halves, place these as a crust 
over the top, pour in the stock and dust a little flour on 
the potatoes ; bake in a moderate oven for about 1^ hours. 
Serve in the dish. 



MUTTON CUTLETS. No. 83. 

l|-2 lb. best end neck of 1 egg. 

mutton. Breadcrumbs, 

i pint brown sauce (No. 109). 2 carrots. . 

Mashed potatoes. J oz. butter. I ^"^^ 

Seasoning. 1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 

Choose small mutton and quite the best end of the 



46 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

neck to make neat cutlets. Saw off enough of the rib 
bones to leave the cutlets about three inches long ; also 
saw off the spine bone without jagging the meat, cut the 
cutlets close against the bones on either side with a sharp 
knife, making them about half an inch thick. Cut away 
an inch of meat from the end of the bones and scrape 
them quite clean ; those mthout bones should be trimmed 
to look like the others. Cut off all but a thin layer of 
fat, dip the cutlets in well-beaten egg, then in fine bread- 
crumbs ; fry in smoking hot fat for 3 to 4 minutes, drain 
on kitchen paper, dish in a circle on mashed potato. Cut 
the carrot into small squares, boil it till tender in boiling 
salted water, drain and toss in the butter and parsley 
with seasoning, and place in the centre of the cutlets and 
pour the brown sauce round. 



PORK CUTLETS. No. 84. 



IJ lbs. loin of pork. 
1 small onion. . 
1 oz. butter. I >- ' -^ 
Seasoning, 
1 dessertspoon lemon juice. 



f pint brown sauce (No. 109). 
Small blade mace. 
1 sprig parsley. 
^ pint apple sauce. 



Trim the cutlets as in the preceding recipe, make the 
butter hot in a frying pan, slice the onion very thin, 
season the cutlets on both sides with salt and pepper ; 
fry them briskly with the onion, mace and parsley on 
both sides, then pour the brown sauce and lemon over 
them, cover with a greased paper and simmer gently for 
three quarters of an hour ; dress in a circle on mashed 
potato, strain the sauce over and round them, and put 
thick apple sauce (No. 107) in the centre. 



MEAT DISHES. 
RIB OF BEEF A LA MODE. 



3-4 lb. back rib of beef. 
6 cloves. , 

1 oz. flour. It t-^V 
Salt and pepper. 



2 oz. butter or beef dripping. 
1 pint stock (No. 3). 
Horse raddish. 




Make the fat smoking hot in the stewpan, stick the 
cloves into the meat and fry it to a good brown on all 
sides very quickly, take it out and fry the flour brown, 
add the stock, season and boil up, put the meat back 
again into the pan, cover and simmer very gently till 
quite tender, about 2 hours. Serve with the sauce over 
and round and garnish with grated horse raddish. 



ROLLED BEEF STEAK. 



No. 86. 



1 lb. steak. 

1 oz. flour. 

1 oz. butter. 

Salt and cayenne pepper. 



:^1 



Forcemeat (No. 180). 
1 pint stock (No. 3). 
1 teaspoon lemon juice. 
Little grated nutmeg. 



Beat the steak well with a rolling pin to a nice even 
thickness. 

Spread a good layer of the forcemeat over it, season 
well with salt, pepper and grated nutmeg, roll up and 
sew with one or two stitches ; make the butter smoking 
hot in the stewpan and fry the roll brown all round, but 
do not stick it with a fork ; take it out, fry the flour 
brown, add stock and stir to the boil, when just off the 
boil put in the beef and lemon juice and simmer gently 
till quite tender, about 1^ to 2 hours. 

N.B. — This dish must cook very slowly or it will be 
tough. 



48 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

RAGOUT OF VEAL. No. 87. 

2 lb. breast of veal. 1 oz. dripping oj- butter. / X^'^r 

1 carrot. 1 oz. flour. ':_ ."• ^ 

1 turnip. 1 pint stock or water. 

1 onion. Salt and pepper. 

Cut the veal in joints about three-quarters of an inch 
thick ; shce the onion thin, make the fat hot, first fry the 
onion to a Hght brown and then the veal, next fry the 
flour, add the stock and seasoning and stir to the boil ; 
cut the carrot and turnip into small squares, put them 
into the sauce, lay the meat on top and simmer for 1^ to 
2 hours. Arrange the veal in a circle on a dish, sauce 
over, and the vegetables place in the centre. 



RABBIT PIE. No. 88. 



1 rabbit. 

4 oz. bacon. 

1 hard-boiled egg. 

Salt and peppe^r. . 

1 oz. flour. ^- y ■" ^ 



1 dessertspoon parsley. 
J teaspoon thyme. 
I pint stock (No. 3). 
Little grated lemon. 
^ lb. short crust. 



Soak the rabbit about an hour in salted lukewarm 
water to draw away the blood ; clean it and dry on 
a cloth ; cut into small joints and dip them in the flour 
seasoned with salt and pepper ; arrange these in a pie 
dish with the bacon cut very thin, also slices of egg, and 
sprinkle with lemon, parsley and thyme chopped ; add 
the stock and cover over with a nice short crust (No. 239) ; 
bake about 2 hom's. 

N.B. — Use the same recipe for veal and ham pie. 



C-r IL A.^1 MEAT DISHES. 

ROAST BREAST OF MUTTON OR VEAL. 

2-3 lb. middle breast mutton Forcemeat (No. 180). 

1 pint water. 
1 sprig parsley. 
1 sprig thyme. 
3 or 4 peppercorns. 
Caramel (No. 418). 




or veal. 
1 carrot. 
1 turnip. 

1 onion. « / 

1 oz. flour. l^A.^'-'Y 



Lay the veal on the board, and with a sharp knife take 
out all the short bones with as little waste as possible ; 
season the meat with salt and pepper, and spread the 
forcemeat dow^n the middle, roll up and sew together 
with a few stitches, put it on the baking tin with a good 
piece of dripping, and place in the hottest part of the 
oven for about 10 minutes, then in a cooler part, and 
baste frequently, as it will help to cook it through nicely 
and keep it tender. It will take about 2 hours to roast. 
In the meantime make a nice stock with the bones, put 
them into a saucepan with the cold water and a little 
salt, bring to the boil and skim ; then add the vegetables 
cleaned and cut in quarters, parsley, thyme and pepper- 
corns, a few drops of caramel, and simmer gently while 
the meat is cooking; strain, take up the meat when 
cooked, pour off the dripping, stir the flour into the roast- 
ing tin, then add the stock. Give one good boil up and 
strain round the joint. 

STEWED BRISKET OP BEEF. No. 90. 



3-4 lb. brisket of beef. 
2 carrots. 
2 turnips. 
2 onions. 



2 cloves. 
1 sprig parsley. 
1 sprig thyme. 
12 peppercorns. 



Lay the beef in pickle for 5 or 6 days (see No. 412), 

4 



50 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

put it into a stewpan and just cover it with warm water ; 
bring to the boil gently and skim thoroughly; add the 
vegetables cut in quarters, herbs and spices, and simmer 
the joint very gently for 3 hours, or a little longer if not 
quite tender in that time. Take it up and press it till 
the next day between two dishes with weights on the 
top, but not too heavy, or it makes the meat dry, trim it 
neatly, and glaze the surface with meat glaze (No. 417). 
Send to table garnished with parsley or endive, and 
decorate with a few red breadcrumbs. 

STEWED VEAL. No. 91. 



1 lb. thick veal cutlet. 
1 oz. butter. | V^^ 
1 onion. 
1 blade mace. 



1 dessertspoon lenion juice. 
1 oz. flour. ^TvW i- 
1 pint stock or water. ^ ^ 
1 sprig parsley. 



Make the butter hot in a stewpan, slice the onion thin, 
and fry it a few minutes with the mace and parsley ; then 
fry the veal slightly, whole, a light brown ; take out and 
fry the flour brown, add stock and boil up, season and 
add lemon juice ; put in the veal and stew gently for 
about 1 hour ; strain the sauce over and garnish the 
dish wath quarters of hard-boiled egg, slices of lemon 
and rolls of bacon. 



STEWED OX TAIL. 


No. 92. 

2 oz. butter or dripping. l.Iv^^^ 

1 onion. 

1 pint water. L ^ 

Salt and pepper. 

1 sprig parsley. 

1 sprig thyme. 


1 small ox tail. / # 

1 oz. flour. ^^I'W^ 

1 carrot. 

1 turuip. 

6 peppercorns. 

1 small bay leaf. 



Cover the tail with cold water in a stewpan, bring to 



MEAT DISHES. 51 

the boil, take out and dry it on a cloth ; cut it into joints 
and take away the fat from the root end. 

Make the butter smoking hot in the stewpan, put in 
the pieces of tail, the vegetables sliced, the herbs and 
spice ; cover the pan and fry the contents briskly for 
quite 10 minutes, shaking the pan to prevent burning ; 
next stir in the flour and fry it, add the water by de- 
grees, season and simmer very gently from 2 to 3 hours. 
Arrange the pieces of tail nicely on a dish and strain 
the sauce over ; crarnish with heaps of cooked carrot 
and macaroni. 

STEWED BREAST OF VEAL. No. 93. 

2 lb. middle breast of veal. 1 turnip. 

Forcemeat (No. 180). 1 oniou. i ,• 

1 carrot. / /Lv -*■ *^^- Carolina rice. ' ' ' 

1 02. butter, ^'^f \ 1 sprig parsley. 

1 oz. flour. '- ' ^ pint milk. |o 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. Seasoning. 

Take out all the short bones with a sharp knife, put 
them into a stewpan with enough cold water just to 
cover the meat, add a little salt, bring to the boil and 
skim ; next pat in the vegetables, cut into small squares, 
parsley, and a little pepper : simmer for 1 hour ; spread 
the forcemeat down the middle of the veal, roll and sew 
it up loosely ; put it into the stock, boil 2 minutes, draw 
off the fire and simmer 1^ hours. 

Melt the butter, cook the flour in it a minute or so, 
stir in the milk and half a pint of the veal broth, boil up 
stming, add the parsley, take out the string from the 
veal, pour the sauce over it and garnish with some of the 
rice and vegetables ; put a little parsley into the soup 
tiu-een, take out the bones and pour the broth over and 
serve separately. 



52 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 



STEWED CALF'S LIVER. 



No. 94. 



1 lb. calf's liver. 




1 carrot. 


2 oz. bacon. 




1 onion. 


1 sprig thyme. 
6 peppercorns. 
1 pint stock (No. 


3). 


1 sprig parsley. 

1 oz. flour. 2 l^M'^ 

Salt and pepper. 



Cut the bacon into very thin sUces and fry it lightly in 
the stewpan ; take it out, cut the liver into slices quite 
half an inch thick, dip them into the flour, fry these 
slightly in the bacon fat on each side, take off the fire, 
add the stock, vegetables cut into dice, parsley, thyme 
and peppercorns, season, and stew very gently for about 1 
hour. Arrange the liver neatly on a dish, garnish with 
the vegetables and bacon, which can be heated a few- 
minutes in the gravy, and serve in a border of boiled rice 
(No. 422). 



3 or 4 mushrooms. 
1 pint stock. 2- C^ 
1 shalot. 
1 thick slice of bread. 



STEWED SWEETBREAD (I.). No. 95. 

1 or 2 nice ox sweetbreads. 
1 oz. butter. ^ i" , 
1 oz. flour. 1^'-' " ^ 
1 tablespoon sherry. 
Salt and pepper. 

Blanch the sweetbreads, that is, place them in a stew- 
pan ; cover with cold water and boil them 5 minutes ; 
dry them and cut away the fat and muscle round them ; 
chop the mushrooms and shalot roughly ; fry them 5 
minutes in the butter, next fry the flour, add the stock, 
season, and stir to the boil, add a few drops of caramel 
and the sherry ; simmer the sweetbread in this sauce 
for 1 hour or until quite tender ; cut the bread into an 
oblong block and fry it brown in smoking hot fat, drain 
it, place the sweetbread on it and sauce over. 



MEAT DISHES. 53 

STEWED SWEETBREAD (II.). No. 96. 



2 ox sweetbreads. 
Yolk of one egg. 
Salt and cayenne. 



^ pint white sauce (No. 133). ' ^-^ 
1 dessertspoon parsley. 
1 teaspoon lemon juice. 



Blanch the sweetbreads as in the foregoing recipe ; cut 
them into thin sHces, heat the sauce, place the breads in 
it and simmer very gently till tender (about 40 minutes), 
stirring frequently ; take off the fire ; stir in the egg 
yolk, parsley and lemon ; cook slowly a minute or two, 
pour out on a dish, and serve sippets of fried bread round. 

N.B. — They are nice stewed in tomato sauce instead of 
the white, leaving out the yolk. 



STEWED TRIPE. 


No. 97. 


1 lb. thin tripe. 

1 pint milk. L<^ 

Salt and pepper. 

1 dessertspoon parsley. 


1 oz. Carolina rice. > ^^ '^ 
1 onion. ^ ; 
^oz. butter. \ • ' i^ 
Sippets of toast. 



Blanch the tripe (No. 94) ; cut it into short lengths 
about 2 inches wide ; put it into a stewpan with the 
milk, rice washed, onion sliced, butter and seasoning ; 
sinnner very gently together for about IJ hours, stirring 
frequently, or it will burn. Serve on a dish with the 
parsley, finely chopped, sprinkled over and the sippets 
round. 

STEWED BEEF WITH MACARONI. No. 98. 



1 lb. lean fillet of beef. 

1 pint stock (No. 3).^^ , 

3 oz. Parmesan cheese.L 



mi. 
Make 1 oimce of the butter hot ; frv the onions sliced 



2 onions. 
2 oz. butter. 
4 oz. macaroni. 



54 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

to a good brown in it ; also fry the beef brown on either 
side ; put these in a stewpan and simmer gently with 
the stock for three-quarters of an hour, when break up 
the macaroni, put it in and stew until all is tender ; make 
the rest of the butter hot, strain the gravy round the beef 
on a dish, put the macaroni into the hot butter, add the 
cheese grated and a liberal sprinkling of cayenne pepper ; 
make hot, place it round the beef and serve. 

STEWED BEEF WITH RICE. No. 90. 

^ lb. lean beef. 1 onion. 

1 tablespoon flour, 
loz.rice. 11/H^ 
Salt and pepper. 

Chop the onion, make the butter hot in a stewpan, 
fry it with the flour to a good brown, add the water and 
seasoning, also a few drops of caramel (No. 418) ; boil to 
a smooth sauce ; take off the Are, cut the meat into 
square pieces, add it with the rice washed to the sauce ; 
let the whole stew very gently together until the meat 
is quite tender. Serve in a border of spinach (No. 144) 
or of shredded and cooked carrot. 

SHEEP'S LIVER BAKED. No. 100. 



1 pint water. ^ 

1 ny. Kiif.f.pr ^ 



1 oz. butter. 



1 lb. liver. 

1 teaspoon sage. 

1 onion. 

I pint stock (No. 3). 



4 oz. streaky bacon. 
Salt and pepper. 
1 oz. breadcrumbs. 
Half an egg. 



Cut the liver half an inch thick into even slices, dip 
each piece into flour mixed with a little salt and pepper ; 
place these on a well-greased baking tin ; boil the onion 
quite tender and chop it fine with the sage ; mix this 
with the breadcrumbs and egg beaten, season and spread 



MEAT DISHES. 



55 



a portion over each piece of liver on the tin. Over this put 
a thin slice of bacon, and sprinkle with brown bread- 
crumbs ; pour the stock round and bake in a moderate 
oven for f to 1 hour. Serve with the gravy round. 



STEWED RABBIT. 



No. 101. 



1 rabbit. ; 1 onion. 

1 oz. butter. | 1 carrot. 

2 oz. bacon. 1 turnip. 

1 oz. flour. 1 stick of celery. 

1 pint stock or water. | Salt and pepper. 

Soak the rabbit about an horn' in lukewarm water with 
a little salt in it ; dry it and cut into small joints ; 
roll these well in the flour ; fry the bacon in small thin 
slices ; put it on one side ; melt the butter with the 
bacon fat ; slice the onion thinly and fry to a light brown ; 
take it out and fry the rabbit on all sides quickly, so as 
not to harden it ; if there is any fat left pour it out of the 
pan, put in the rabbit, the onion, vegetables cut into 
small squares, stock and seasoning ; simmer very gently 
about 2 hours. Just before dishing, put the bacon on 
top of the meat to warm through. Arrange the rabbit 
and bacon in the centre of a dish ; strain the sauce over 
and garnish with the vegetables. 



SALMI OF COLD GAME. 

Remains of cold game. 
^ pint stock or water. 
1 onion. 
6 peppercorns. 
1 wineglass port wine. 
1 dessertspoon red currant 
jelly. 



No. 102. 



1 oz. butter. 

1 oz. flour. 

1 strip orange rind. 

Salt and pepper. 

Fried bread. 

1 sprig parsley. 



Cut off the meat in neat joints ; break up the bones, 



56 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

carcase, etc., and put them into a stewpan with the 
stock, orange, onion cut in quarters, peppercorns and 
parsley ; simmer this stock gently about 1 hour ; strain 
it ; melt the butter ; fry the flour brown in it ; add the 
stock a little at a time ; season and boil up ; take off the 
fire, put in the game, jelly and port wine ; simmer gently 
by the side of the fire for half an hour. Arrange the 
joints nicely on a dish ; strain the sauce over and round 
and decorate with sippets of fried bread. 

VIENNA STEAKS. No. 103. 



^ lb. rump steak. Half a beaten egg, 

i oz. flour. Salt and pepper. 

1 dessertspoon parsley. 2 medium onions. 

h teaspoon chopped thyme. J pint brown sauce (No. 109). 

1 oz. butter. 

Take the fat and skin from the steak and scrape it up 
very fine, as small as possible ; put it into a basin ; add 
the flour, seasoning, parsley finely chopped, thyme and 
beaten egg ; mix all this well together, cover the basin 
and stand by for half an hour or so, for the mixture to 
get nicely flavoured ; then make the meat into small 
round cakes or fillets about half an inch thick, using 
a very little flour to keep them from sticking to the 
board ; make the butter smoking hot ; put in the fillets, 
shake the pan to prevent them sticking ; fry gently for 
about 10 minutes, turning them with a knife frequently ; 
dish them on mashed potato, with the brown sauce round 
and onion fritters in the centre. 

For the fritters use the other half of the egg. Cut the 
onions into thin rings, dip them first in flour,, then in the 
egg and again in flour ; fry these in smoking hot fat to 
a light golden colour ; drain on kitchen paper. 



MEAT DISHES. 57 

VEAL CUTLETS STEWED. No. 104. 

|-1 lb. lean veal cutlet. 1 pint brown sauce (No. 109). 

Egg and breadcrumbs. 1 hard-boiled egg. 

1 dessertspoon lemon juice. Mashed potatoes (No. 151). 

Cut the veal into slices half an inch thick, beat with 
a rolling pin, and trim into nice round cutlets ; egg and 
crumb them very neatly, and fry a light brown in smoking 
hot fat ; drain. Have the sauce hot, but not boiling, in 
a stewpan ; put in the cutlets, add the lemon juice and 
stew gently for half an hour ; dish up in a circle on 
mashed potato or spinach and pour the sauce round. 
Serve rolls of bacon and the egg cut in quarters in the 
centre and garnish with slices of lemon. 

VEAL SHAPE. No. 105. 



1 lb. lean veal. 

4 oz. bacon. 

1 pint stock (No. 2). 

Seasoning. 



1 hard-boiled egg. 

1 dessertspoon chopped parsley. 

^ teaspoon thyme. 



Take away the fat and skin and cut the veal into small 
square pieces (about ^ inch) ; slice the egg and decorate 
the bottom of a plain mould with some of it ; cut the 
bacon into small pieces ; place the veal and bacon in 
layers in the tin, sprinkling with the thyme and parsley 
chopped fine ; season and fill the tin with stock ; cover 
with a greased paper and bake in a slow oven for 2 
hours. It is a good plan to put a baking tin on top of 
the mould while it is baking to keep it flat ; when cold 
turn out and decorate with parsley. 



58 



SAUCES. 

ANCHOVY SAUCE. No. 106. 

1 or 2 fish bones. f pint water. 

3 peppercorns. J oz. flour. 

1 sprig parsley. J oz. butter. 

Anchovy essence. Seasoning. 

In making any kind of tisli sauce, fish stock or fish 
stock and milk is always better than water, or milk 
alone. Any kind of fish bones may be used — those 
generally from the fish you happen to be cooking. 

Break up the fish bones, cut off the head, which is not 
used ; put them into a stewpan with the cold water, 
parsley and peppercorns ; season and simmer slowly for 
10 minutes ; skim and strain the stock, melt the butter, 
but do not burn it ; stir in the flour, cook it a minute or 
so to make the sauce smooth and shiny, take off the 
fire and mix in the stock a little at a time, stir to the 
boil ; cook for 2 minutes, take off the tire and add enough 
anchovy essence to colour and flavour the sauce to taste ; 
strain into the sauce-boat. 



APPLE SAUCE. 



No. 107. 



1 2 oz. brown sugar. 
Peel, core and cut the apples into quarters ; put them^ 



1 lb. cooking apples 
^ gill water. 



SAUCES. 59 

with the water and sugar, into a saucepan ; cover and 
boil quickly to a thick pulp. Do not stir the sauce, but 
shake the pan to prevent the apples burning ; when quite 
soft and thick pass through a wire sieve, heat up again 
and serve. 

BREAD SAUCE. No. 108. 

^ pint milk. | 2 oz. breadcrumbs. 

1 oz. butter. 6 white peppercorns. 

1 small onion. i Salt and pepper. 

Put the butter, onion whole, seasoning and pepper- 
corns into the milk ini a very clean saucepan, simmer 
slowly for 10 minutes, add the breadcrumbs and simmer 
10 or 15 minutes longer, until the sauce is of the con- 
sistency of thick cream, when take out the peppercorns 
and onion, and beat the sauce with a wooden spoon over 
the fire till it is very white. If too thick a little more 
milk must be added. 

BROWN SAUCE. No. 109. 



1 oz. butter. 1 carrot. 

1 oz. flour. 1 turnip. 

1 pint stock (No. 3). 1 onion. 

1 sprig parsley. 1 stick celery. 

1 sprig thyme. 6 peppercorns. 

Seasoning. 

Cut all the vegetables into small and thin slices, make 
the butter hot and fry them for 10 minutes with the 
parsley, thyme and peppercorns ; then fry the flour a 
few minutes, mix in the stock off the tire, season, stir to 
the boil, then simmer the sauce slowly for half an hour ; 
strain. A few drops of caramel (No. 418) must be added 
to make it a good brown colour. 



6o HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

BRANDY SAUCE. No. 110. 



1 oz. butter. ^ pint water or milk. 

J oz. flour. 1 oz. Demarara sugar. 

1 wineglass brandy. 1 strip orange rind. 

Melt the butter ; cook the flour in it without browning, 
add water and orange and stir to the boil ; mix in sugar 
and brandy and strain the sauce. 

BUTTER SAUCE. No. 111. 

8 oz, butter. 

Melt the butter slowly in a sauce pan, and boil it 
gently until the buttermilk and water have evaporated, 
when skim thoroughly ; pour off the clear butter, leaving 
the sediment at the bottom of the pan. 

CORNFLOUR SAUCE. No. 112. 



1 good teaspoon cornflour. J pint milk. 

1 strip lemon rind. 1 oz. castor sugar. 

Boil the milk with the lemon, taking care that it does 
not burn ; stir the cornflour to a smooth cream with a 
little cold milk ; stir the boiling milk to this, return to 
the saucepan and boil gently for 2 or 3 minutes, stirring 
well all the time ; take out the lemon and add the 
sugar. Strain the sauce if necessary. 

CREAM SAUCE. No. 113. 



^ oz. butter. 

^ oz. flour. 

1 tablespoon cream. 



^ pint milk. 

Yolk of one egg. 

Sugar or salt and pepper. 



This sauce may be used for sweet or savoury dishes. 



SAUCES. 6 1 

Melt the butter ; cook the flour in it a little ; take off the 
fire and stir in the milk, boil for 2 minutes, stir the egg 
yolk and cream together, and add a little at a time to 
the sauce. Sweeten or season as required. 

N.B. — This sauce may be flavoured with a httle spice 
or vanilla or almond essences. 



CUSTARD SAUCE. No. 114. 



1 whole egg. j J pint milk. 

1 yolk of egg. ' 1 oz. castor sugar. 

4 drops vanilla essence. 

Whisk the eggs in a basin ; boil the milk and whisk it 
on to the eggs a little at a time or it will curdle ; pour 
this into a jug; stand the jug in a pan of simmering 
water and stir the custard until it will coat the spoon 
thickly ; take out immediately and stir in the flavouring 
and sugar. 



CHERRY SAUCE. No. 115. 



2 oz. crystallised cherries. 

2 oz. loaf sugar. 

A few drops cochineal. 



^ pint water. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 



Put the water, lemon and sugar into a saucepan and 
boil it slowly for 15 minutes ; skim if necessary ; take off 
the fire, cut the cherries in quarters, put them in and 
add a few drops of cochineal to make the sauce cherry 
colour. Allow to go cold in a basin. 



6i 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 



EGG SAUCE. 



No. 116. 



h pint milk or water. 
Salt and pepper. 



1 hard-boiled egg. 
1 oz. butter. 
^ oz. flour. 

Put the egg into boiling water and boil it gently for 
10 to 12 minutes ; melt the butter, cook the flour in it 
for a minute or two, add the milk and seasoning and stir 
to the boil ; cook for 2 minutes : chop the egg finely 
and put into the sauce. 



No. 117. 



J pint milk. 

I pint water. 

1 small piece carrot. 

1 small piece turnip. 

1 small piece celery. 

6 peppercorns. 

Seasoning. 



FISH SAUCE. 

The bones of a plaice, sole or 

whiting. 
1 oz. butter, • 

1 oz. flour. 
1 small onion. 
1 small bay leaf. 
1 sprig parsley. 
1 sprig thyme. I 

Cut the head off the bones, wash and break them up, 
put them into a saucepan with the vegetables left in 
blocks, the herbs and spice ; season and pour over them 
the milk and water ; simmer the stock slowly for 10 
minutes ; strain ; dissolve the butter and cook the flour 
in it slowly for 3 or 4 minutes to make the sauce shiny, 
then off the fire, mix in the stock, stir to the boil and 
cook for 5 minutes ; strain the sauce. 



GREEN SAUCE. 

1 doz. green onion stalks. 

A few sprigs tarragon. 

^ pint melted butter (No. 123). 



No. 118. 



1 doz. sprigs parsley. 
1 oz. butter. 
Salt and cayenne. 



Wash the parsley and onions and throw them into a 



SA UCES. 63 

pan of boiling salted water, boil until just tender, drain 
them and pound to a paste with the butter in a mortar ; 
whisk this to the melted butter hot, give the sauce a good 
boil up, and add 1 teaspoon of tarragon vinegar. 

N.B. — This makes a nice sauce for mackerel or any 
kind of fish. 

GHERKIN SAUCE. No. 119. 

^ oz. butter. f pint water. 

J oz. flour. The yolk of one egg. 

1 dessertspoon chopped gher- Salt and pepper. 

kin. 1 dessertspoon lemon juice. 

Melt the butter ; cook the flour in it ; add the water and 
stir to the boil ; season ; chop the gherkin very fine and 
stir it into the sauce with the yolk and lemon juice ; 
gently reheat and serve. 

GINGER SAUCE. No. 120. 

2 oz. crystallised ginger. 1 ^ pint water. 

2 oz. loaf sugar. | A few drops caramel. 

Boil the sugar and water to a nice syrup about 15 to 20 
minutes, slowly ; skim it ; cut the ginger into small dice, 
put it into the syrup and allow to go cold. 

MAYONNAISE SAUCE. No. 121. 



2 yolks of eggs. 

1 tablespoon vinegar. 

2 teaspoons tarragon vinegar. 



1 gill salad oil. 

1 teaspoon Chili vinegar. 

Salt and pepper. 



Put the yolks into a basin; add the salad oil (a few 
drops only at a time), stirring vigorously the whole time 



64 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

until the sauce is very thick and smooth ; next stir in 
the vinegar gradually and the seasoning. More vinegar 
can be added if liked. 

MUSTARD SAUCE. No. 122. 



1 or 2 mackerel bones. 

1 bay leaf. 

1 teaspoon of mustard. 

1^ gills water. 

Salt and pepper. 



6 peppercorns. 
J oz. flour. 
J oz. butter. 
J gill vinegar. 



Break up the fish bones ; put them into a saucepan 
with the water, vinegar, bay leaf and peppercorns ; 
simmer gently for 5 or 6 minutes ; melt the butter in a 
saucepan ; cook the flour and mustard a minute or two ; 
strain and add the stock by degrees ; boil 5 or 6 minutes. 

MELTED BUTTER. No. 123. 

IJ oz. butter. I 1 oz. flour. 

1 pint water. | Salt and pepper. 

Melt the butter; cook the flour well in it without 
browning ; add the water a little at a time, beating the 
sauce well to make it a good colour ; season and stir to 
the boil ; cook for 4 or 5 minutes ; strain. 

MINT SAUCE. No. 124. 



1 gill vinegar. I 2 tablespoons chopped mint. 

1^ oz. Demarara sugar. | Pinch of salt. 

Pick the mint off close to the stalks and chop it as fine 
as possible ; put it into the sauce tureen and pour the 
vinegar over it ; add the sugar ; stir until it is quite 
dissolved. 




SAUCES. 
MAJTRE D'HQTEL SAUCE . 

^ oz. butter. j J pint stock or water. 

^ oz. flour. i 1 dessertspoon parsley. 

Salt and cayenne pepper. 1 dessertspoon lemon juice. 

Melt the butter ; cook the flour a ruinute in it ; add 
water and stir to the boil ; take off the fire and add 
parsley (No. 432), lemon and seasoning. 

ONION SAUCE. No. 126. 

4 medium-sized onions. | ^ pint milk. 

1 oz. butter. i Salt and pepper. 

I oz. flour. 

Peel the onions, put them into a pan of boiling salted 
water, and boil gently for 15 minutes, when throw them 
into another pan of boiling salted water, and boil until 
quite tender, about 1-i- to 2 hours ; drain. Changing the 
water will keep the onions a nice white colour. Chop 
them very tine, or pass them through a wire sieve ; let 
all water drain away from them ; melt the butter, cook 
the flour in it, add the milk a little at a time, and stir to 
the boil ; season and add the onions, boil up once again 
and serve. 

PIQUANTE SAUCE. No. 127. 



^ oz. butter. 

1 teaspoon chopped onion. 

1 teaspoon French mustard. 



^ pint brown sauce (No. 109). 
1 teaspoon tarragon vinegar. 
1 tablespoon malt vinegar. 
Seasoning. 

Make the butter hot and fry the onion brown in it ; add 
the vinegars and reduce a little ; add the brown sauce ; 
simmer 15 to 20 minutes, skim the sauce if necessary, 
and add the mustard, but do not boil after. 

5 



66 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

RASPBERRY SAUCE . No. 128. 

2 tablespoons raspberry jam. I 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 
1 oz. loaf sugar. 1 gill water. 

Put all the ingredients into a saucepan, do not stir, but 
boil slowly for 15 minutes, skimming as the skum rises to 
make the sauce clear ; strain. 

SWEET SAUCE. No. 129. 



J oz. butter. 

J oz. flour. 

A pinch of salt. 



J pint milk. 

1 or 2 strips lemon rind. 

1 oz. castor sugar. 



Melt the butter, stir in the flour, cook a little ; add the 
milk and lemon rind, boil and stir in the sugar ; strain. 

SHRIMP SAUCE. No. 130. 



1 oz. butter. | 1 pint water. 

1 oz. flour. ' ' ^ pint shrimps. 

1 blade mace. Salt and cayenne. 

Pick the shrimps, put the shells, the mace, seasoning 
and water in a saucepan, and simmer gently for 5 or 6 
minutes, not longer, or the stock will become bitter ; 
strain, melt the butter, cook the flour in it, add the 
shrimp stock, and stir to the boil ; put in the shrimps 
and warm them through without boiling. 

TOMATO SAUCE. No. 131. 

^ oz. butter. | oz. flour. 

^ oz, bacon. ^ lb. tomatoes. 

1 carrot. 1 sprig parsley. 

1 turnip. 1 sprig thyme. 

1 onion. | 6 peppercorns. 

J pint stock (No. 2). Seasoning. 

Dissolve the bacon cut up with the butter, in a sauce- 



SA UCES. 67 

pan, slice all the vegetables thin and small and fry them 
with the parsley, thyme and peppercorns, without brown- 
ing ; stir in the flour, fry it a httle, then off the fire stir 
in the stock gradually, add the tomatoes sliced and 
seasoning; simmer slowly, stirring occasionally for 1 
hour, pass through a hair sieve, reheat and serve. 

WHITE SAUCE. No. 132. 



1 oz. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 
1 sprig parslej-, 
1 bay leaf. 
6 peppercorns. 



1 pint milk. 
1 small piece carrot. 
1 small piece turnip. 
1 small onion. 
Salt and pepper. 



Put the milk into a saucepan, and into it the carrot, 
turnip, onion left whole, parsley, thyme, bay leaf and 
peppercorns ; simmer very slowly, or the milk will curdle, 
for 10 to 15 minutes. The vegetables must not be cut 
small, or they will break off aud discolour the milk. In 
the meantime, blend the butter and flour well together in 
a saucepan, strain and add the milk stock by degrees; 
stir to the boil and cook for 5 minutes, taking care it does 
not burn ; strain through a fine strainer. 

WHITE SAUCE, PLAIN. No. 133. 

1 oz. butter. 1 ^ pint milk. 

I oz. flour. I Salt and pepper. 

Melt the butter, stir in the flour, cook a little without 
browning, add milk and seasoning ; boil 2 or 3 minutes, 
stirring and beating well to make the sauce nice and 
white. 



68 



VEGETABLES 

(PLAIN AND DRESSED). 

ARTICHOKES. No. 134. 



2 lb. Jerusalem artichokes. | ^ pint white sauce (No. 133). 

The artichokes should be cooked as soon after they are 
dug up as possible. Choose them all one size, throw 
them into cold water and scrub them ; peel them thinly 
and rinse them in cold water, in which there is a little 
vinegar or lemon juice (this will help to keep them white). 
Have a large pan of boiling water on the tire ; throw in 
a tablespoon of milk and about the same of lemon juice, 
also salt in the proportion of 1 small teaspoon to each 
pint of water used. Cook the artichokes briskly in this 
for about half an hour ; drain them well and serve coated 
with sauce. 



ARTICHOKES STUFFED. No. 135. 



1 lb. Jerusalem artichokes. | ^ pint white sauce (No. 133). 

2 oz. lean ham. ! 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

Choose rather large and good-shaped artichokes ; boil 
them as in the preceding recipe ; when tender take them 
up on a clean cloth, and with a teaspoon scoop out the 
centres, leaving a nice casing. Heat the sauce and add 



VEGETABLES. 6g 

the lemon ; take enough of it to form the ham freed from 
fat, and chopped very fine into a creamy paste rather 
thick ; fill in the artichokes with this, place them in the 
dish, and coat all over with the remaining sauce. Serve 
very hot. 

BOILED CELERY. No. 136. 

1 or 2 heads celery. | 1 pint white sauce (No. 133). 

Put on a large pan of water ; when boiling add a dash 
of milk and a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice ; scrape 
the celery, using the nice parts only ; cut it into quarters 
and then into about 6-inch lengths ; tie it up in bundles ; 
put them into the prepared water ; boil gently for half 
an hour (over-cooking will spoil the colour and flavour) ; 
drain well, place in a dish and sauce over. 

N.B. — Celery may be sensed with brown sauce (No. 
109) also if hked. 

BOILED ASPARAGUS. No. 137. 



25 heads asparagus. i A slice of toast. 

3 oz. butter sauce (No. HI). \ 

Scrape the asparagus in water, rinse and tie up in 
bundles ; cut off the white end, leaving the sticks about 
4 inches long ; throw into plenty of boiling salted water ; 
boil gently for 20 to 30 minutes, drain and serve on a 
slice of toast to absorb all the water. Hand the sauce 
round. 

BOILING GREEN VEGETABLES. No. 138. 

In boiling all green vegetables, with one or two excep- 
tions, the same rules should be observed. Always use 



70 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

plenty of water for cleaning and cooking them (the more 
the better). The water should be prepared before the 
vegetables are put in. Take 1 small teaspoon of salt 
to each pint used, also as much common soda as would 
cover a threepenny piece (this does for a large pan) ; boil 
the water, salt and soda fast for 5 minutes and skim it if 
necessary ; clean the vegetables and soak them for an 
hour in cold water and cut away the hard stalks from 
cabbages, etc. ; drain them in a colander and throw them 
into the water ; boil very fast for 20 to 30 minutes. Do 
not over-boil them, or the flavour and colour is spoilt. 
Directly they are tender drain them very dry and serve 
at once. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. No. 1.S9. 

1 nice cauliflower. ^ pint white sauce (No. 133). 

2 oz. Parmesan cheese. Salt and cayenne pepper. 
^ teaspoon mixed mustard. 

Trim most of the g]*een part away from the flower and 
cut off the hard stalk ; place the cauliflower in plenty of 
salted boiling water, flower downwards to keep it white, 
and boil gently in order not to break it till tender 20 to 
30 minutes, according to size ; take it up on a clean cloth 
and absorb all the water; place in a deep gratin dish, 
heat the sauce, stir in the cheese grated and mustard, 
and cover the cauliflower completely over ; sprinkle it 
on top with a little grated cheese, and place in a hot 
oven or before a clear fire to brown. 

CAULIFLOWER WITH BROWN SAUCE. No. 140. 



1 nice cauliflower. ^ pint brown sauce (No. 109). 

1 carrot. 1 teaspoon parsley. 

I oz. butter. 



VEGETABLES. 71 

Cook the cauliflower as in the preceding recipe ; heat 
the sauce and cover the flower witli it ; cut the carrot 
into small diamond-shaped pieces and boil till tender in 
boiling salted water; drain and toss in the butter and 
parsley finely chopped ; sprinkle this over the cauliflower 
and serve. 



CQLCANNQN. No. 141. 

Cold vegetables. 1 1 lb. mashed potatoes (No. 151). 

1 tablespoon parsley. | IJ oz. butter or dripping. 

This is a nice way of using up the remains of any kind 
of cold vegetables (the greater variety the nicer the dish). 
Take cold carrots, turnip, cauliflow^er, cabbage — about 
equal quantities of each — and chop them up ; then mix 
well with the mashed potatoes, parsley finely chopped 
and seasoning. Make the fat smoking hot in the frying- 
pan ; put in the mixture, smooth over and shake the 
pan to prevent the vegetables sticking ; fry to a good 
brown on the underneath side and turn out in shape on 
to a hot dish, or the mixture may be baked in a pie- 
dish, greased and lined with brown breadcrumbs. 



DRESSED CARROTS (I.). No. 142. 

1 doz. small new carrots. 1 oz. butter. 

Salt and pepper. 1 dessertspoon parsley. 

Scrape the carrots a bright red and rinse them in cold 
water ; boil them till quite tender — half to three-quarters 
of an hour — in boiling salted water ; drain them, put in 
the butter, parsley, seasoning, and shake well. Serve 
very hot. 



72 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

DBESSED CARROTS (II.). No. 143. 

1 doz. small new carrots. ^ pint white sauce (No. 13.S). 

1 teaspoon parsley. Salt and pepper. 

Scrape and boil the carrots ; drain ; heat the sauce ; 
add the parsley, very finely chopped, the seasoning, and 
stir the carrots into it without breaking them. Serve 
hot. 

DRESSED SPINACH. No. 144. 



2 lb. spinach. 
Fried bread. 
Salt and pepper. 



1 oz. butter. 

1 hard-boiled egg. 



The spinach must be well rinsed in several waters to 
clean it. Take off the roots and tear off the thick stalk 
right down the back of the leaves or the spinach will be 
stringy ; put it into a stewpan, sprinkle with salt, and 
reduce it down slowly for 15 to 20 minutes, or until quite 
tender ; drain it, and either chop it very fine or pass it 
through a wire sieve ; melt the butter in a saucepan ; 
stir the spinach in it till it is thoroughly hot ; season 
nicely. Have some thin slices of bread fried in hot fat 
and cut into rounds ; pile the spinach high on them, and 
decorate with the white of the egg chopped fine and the 
yolk passed through a wire sieve. Serve very hot. A 
little cream may be added. 

DRESSED TOMATOES. No. 145. 

i lb. tomatoes. , J oz. butter. 

1 tablespoon brown bread- 1 teaspoon finely chopped pars- 
crumbs, ley. 

1 tablespoon grated cheese. Salt and pepper. 

Spread a little of the butter down the middle of a 



VEGETABLES. 73 

baking-tin ; cut the tomatoes in halves, sideways ; place 
them on the tin ; season them with salt and pepper ; 
sprinkle them freely with brown breadcrumbs, then with 
cheese, and, lastly, a little parsley on each ; put a tiny 
bit of butter on top ; bake in a moderate oven 15 to 20 
minutes. Serve hot. 

DRESSED TURNIPS (I). No. 146. 

4 medium -sized turnips. 1 oz. butter. 

^ pint milk. | oz. flour. 

1 dessertspoon parsley. Salt and pepper. 

Peel the turnips thickly to take away the woody fibre 
from the outsides, cut them into nice square blocks 
(about 1 inch), boil fchem until tender in boiling salted 
water 15 to 20 minutes, drain them dry ; melt the butter, 
cook the flour in it a little, add the milk and seasoning, 
stir to the boil ; put in the turnips and parsley, stir over 
the fire until thoroughly hot. 

DRESSED TURNIPS (II.). No. 147. 

4 turnips. 1 oz. glaze (No. 417). 

Seasoning. 1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 

Cut and cook the turnips as in the previous recipe ; 
drain them well ; melt the glaze in a saucepan slowly ; 
put in the turnips, parsley and seasoning ; simmer by 
the side of the fire for 10 minutes. 

N.B. — Carrots or parsnips are equally nice dressed in 
this way. 

FRENCH BEANS. No. 148. 

2 lb. French beans. j 1 oz. butter. 
Salt and pepper. [ 

Take the skin off both sides of the beans, slice them 



74 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES, 

into slanting-wise strips thinly, wash them, throw them 
into a large pan of boiling salted water with a pinch of 
soda ; boil quickly until tender, drain them, shake them 
over the fire with the butter and a little pepper. Serve 
hot. 

GREEN PEAS. No. 149. 

After shelling them wash them. They should be boiled, 
not too fast, in boiling salted water, in which there is a 
lump or two of sugar and a good sprig of mint ; drain 
them and toss them with a nice piece of butter. They 
will take from 15 to 40 minutes (according to their age) 
to cook. 

LENTIL FRITTERS. No. 150. 



I pint red lentils. 
1 sprig parsley. 
Salt and pepper. 



1 onion. 

1 sprig thyme. 

2 eggs. 



Wash and pick over the lentils, tie them tightly in a 
cloth with the parsley, thyme and onion sliced ; boil for 
1 hour, putting them into a large pan of boiling water ; 
open the cloth, take out the parsley and thyme, put the 
lentils in a basin, and stir in the eggs and season well. 
Turn out on a plate to cool and set ; make up into small 
round cakes, dip them in beaten egg, then in flour ; fry 
them in smoking hot fat ; drain and serve with fried 
parsley (No. 431). 

MASHED POTATOES. No. 151. 



2 lb. potatoes. 1 oz. butter. 

\ gill milk. Salt and pepper. ■ 

A little grated nutmeg. 

Boil the potatoes as in No. 155 ; pass them through a 



Vegetables. 75 

wire sieve ; boil the butter and milk together in a sauce- 
pan, put in the potatoes, nutmeg and seasoning ; beat 
over the fire until they are smooth, v^hite and creamy. 

NEW POTATOES. No. 152. 



These should be chosen all of one size, so that they 
will cook together. First scrub them, then scrape them, 
using plenty of water to keep them a good colour ; throw 
them into cold water as they are done, and change it 
directly it turns brown. Have sufficient boiling water to 
cover them ; salt it, and put in a sprig of mint with the 
potatoes ; boil slowly from 15 to 40 minutes, according 
to the size, but only long enough to make them just 
tender; drain, take away the mint, dry them under a 
cloth by the side of the fire ; just before serving shake 
in a good piece of butter. 

NEW POTATOES A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. No. 153. 

2 lb. new potatoes. l ^ pint maitre d'hotel sauce (No. 

I 125). 

Choose rather small potatoes ; boil them as in the pre- 
ceding recipe ; cut them into slices half an inch thick ; 
heat the sauce, put in the potatoes and stir them carefully 
over the fire until hot through without breaking them. 

ONIONS BOILED. No. 154. 



1 lb. onions. | J pint white sauce (No. 138). 

Peel the onions, which should be all one size and 
not too large, thinly, not taking off more skins than is 
necessary, as it causes them to break in the cooking ; put 
them on in boiling salted water and boil them for 15 



76 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

minutes, when change the water and cook them gently 
for 1-^ to 2 hours ; drain them and serve with the white 
sauce over. Leeks are nice served in this wav. 



OLD POTATOES BOILED . No. 155. 

Choose them of one size; scrub them well and then 
peel them thinly, throwing them into cold water as they 
are done ; but it does not improve old potatoes to soak 
them a long time before cooking. Some varieties are 
best cooked by putting them in boiling water, while some 
are better for being put on in cold. You must try the 
potatoes each way and see which suits them best. The 
water should always be salted before the potatoes are 
put in, and only enough used to well cover them. Boil 
them very gently, and when just tender strain them off 
immediately. Potatoes are often spoilt by leaving them 
in the water after they are cooked. They will take from 
20 minutes to half an hour ; drain them thoroughly ; 
place them by the side of the fire with the lid of the pan 
off", and a clean cloth pushed tightly down on them (this 
will draw off the moisture) ; keep them hot and make them 
white and flowery. Never cut potatoes before boiling 
them, and try not to break them in dishing up. 

PARISIAN POTATOES. No. 158. 

5 or 6 potatoes. i 1 dessertspoon chopped pars- 

Salt and cayenne. | ley. 

Old or new potatoes are nice done in this way. Peel 
and cut the potatoes into slices half an inch thick, then 
into rounds with a small pastry cutter ; throw these into 
boiling salted water for 3 minutes ; drain them well on 



VEGETABLES, 77 

a cloth ; put them into a frying basket ; phmge them into 
smoking hot fat ; fry to a golden colour about 5 or 6 
minutes ; drain them on kitchen paper and sprinkle them 
with salt, cayenne and parsley. Serve very hot. 

POTATO RIBBONS. No. 157. 



Take nice round potatoes; peel them and cut them into 
slices half an inch thick ; trim off the edge, so as to make 
the slice as round as possible ; then peel off as you would 
in peehng an apple, thinly, into a long ribbon ; tie into 
bows or knots ; fry in hot fat a golden colour ; drain on 
paper. 

POTATO SOUFFLEES. No. 158. 



6 medium-sized potatoes. 
1 oz. butter. 
Cayenne pepper. 



2 eggs. 

^ gill milk. 

Salt. 



Scrub and bake the potatoes ; cut them carefully in 
half and remove the flowery part, taking precaution not 
to break the skin ; sieve the potato, melt the butter, add 
the milk ; take 3 oz. of the potato, beat it into the milk 
with the yolks of the eggs and the seasoning; lastly, 
whisk the whites to a stiff froth and stir in lightly ; fill 
the potato cases and bake in a quick oven for 20 minutes. 
Serve hot. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. No. 159. 

1 lb. potatoes. ; 1 oz. butter. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. i ^ gill milk. 
Salt and cayenne. 1 egg. 

Little grated nutmeg. 

Boil and dry the potatoes (No. 155) ; pass them through 



78 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

a wire sieve ; boil the milk and butter together ; put in 
the potatoes, seasoning and parsley ; beat to a hot paste 
over the fire, then stir in enough of the egg beaten to 
form a smooth creamy paste. Turn this out on a plate 
to cool, when make up into balls or cork shapes ; egg 
and breadcrumb them carefully, and fry to a light golden 
colour in hot fat. 



POTATO BORDER. No. 160. 



1 lb. potatoes. 

2 oz. grated cheese, 
legg. 

^ teaspoon chopped thyme. , Salt and pepper. 
Red breadcrumbs. I 



I gill milk. 

1 oz. butter. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 



Boil and dry the potatoes ; sieve them ; boil the milk 
and butter together ; put in the potatoes and stir to a hot 
paste over the fire ; take off and add the parsley, thyme, 
cheese, seasoning and enough beaten egg to make the 
mixture smooth and creamy. Butter well a border 
mould, line it with red or brown breadcrumbs, fill it 
with the potato mixture, and bake in a moderate oven 
for 10 to 15 minutes. 

This may also be served as a gateau, cooking it in an 
oval or round plain mould. The border, though, is useful 
for serving mince, etc., in. 

SEA KALE. No. 161. 

Soak the sea kale and wash thoroughly ; out off the 
purple leaves and trim it ; tie it in bundles ; boil it 
carefully in boiling salted water in which there is a dash 
of milk and a few drops of lemon juice (it will take about 



VEGETABLES, 79 

half an hour to cook tender) ; drain it well and serve with 
white sauce (No. 133) poured over. 

N.B. — It is also nice served au gratin. See 139. 

SALSIFY. No. 162. 

Salsify is cooked as in the preceding recipe, only cut 
into pieces ; boil about 1 hour ; serve with white sauce 
over. 

STEWED SPANISH ONIONS. No. 163. 



4 small Spanish onions. 

^ oz. flour. 

^ pint Liebig's stock. 



1 oz. butter. 
Salt and pepper. 
1 teaspoon parsley. 



Dissolve half a teaspoon of Liebig's extract of meat 
in half -pint of boiling water ; make the butter smoking 
hot ; peel the onions thinly and fry them brown on all 
sides in it ; take them out and fry the flour brown, add 
the stock by degrees, season and stir to the boil ; put 
the onions into the sauce and simmer very gently until 
they are quite tender 1^ to 2 hours. Dish them and 
pour the sauce over and round ; sprinkle the tops with 
very fine parsley. 

STEWED LENTILS. No. 164. 



f pint whole brown lentils. 1 oz. butter. 

J pint Liebig or ordinary brown 1 onion. 

stock. 1 teaspoon parsley. 
Salt and pepper. I 

Wash and soak the lentils over night ; put them with 
enough cold water to cover into a saucepan ; boil gently 



8o HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

for 1 hour, strain, make the butter hot, sUce the onion 
and fry it brown in it ; put in the lentils, stock, parsley 
and seasoning, and stew gently half an hour. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. No. 165. 

^ lb. tomatoes. j 1 oz. breadcrumbs. 

1 teaspoon parsley. 1 ^ teaspoon onion. 

1 oz. butter. I The yolk of 1 egg. 

Salt, pepper, nutmeg. A few brown breadcrumbs. 

Take a small piece out of the top of each tomato and 
scoop out a little pulp from the centre to allow of the 
stuffing ; chop this up and use it in the stuffing ; put all 
the ingredients very finely chopped into the butter melted 
and bind with the egg yolk ; fill the tomatoes up high 
and sprinkle the tops with brown breadcrumbs ; place on 
a buttered baking-tin and bake in a moderate oven for 15 
to 20 minutes. Send to table garnished with sprigs of 
parsley. 

STUFFED MUSHROOMS. No. 166. 

6 or 8 mushrooms. 1 oz. lean ham. 

1 oz. butter. j 1 teaspoon chopped onion. 

^ oz. brown breadcrumbs. , 1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 

Salt and cayenne. | 1 tablespoon thick sauce. 

Peel the mushrooms carefully and leave on about three- 
quarters of an inch of the stalk ; melt the butter, fry the 
onion to a hght brown, then stir in ham finely chopped, 
parsley, breadcrumbs, sauce and seasoning ; stir all to- 
gether till hot ; place this stuffing thickly round the stalk 
of each mushroom ; put them on a well-buttered baking- 
tin, and bake about 15 minutes, or if the mushrooms are 



VEGETABLES. 8i 

preferred richer they can be fried in butter, basting them 
with it the while. Serve on rounds of fried bread or 
buttered toast, or shoes of cooked tomatoes. 

VEGETABLE PIE. No. 167. 

1 carrot. I J pint white sauce (No. 133). 

1 turnip. 1 teaspoon chopped onion. 

A few sprigs of cauliflower. 1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 

6 kidney beans or Salt and pepper. 

Sprouts. i ^ lb. tomatoes. 

1 or 2 sticks celery. | 1 oz. brown breadcrumbs. 

Any vegetables in season can be used in this dish (the 
greater variety of flavour and colour the better). They 
must be cut in pieces not too large, and each boiled in 
separate salted water until tender and well drained. 
Carrots, turnips, beans, etc., look nice cut into diamond 
shapes. Make the sauce hot and stir the vegetables into 
it without breaking them ; put the mixture into a greased 
pie dish ; peel and slice the tomatoes ; place them as a 
crust over the top ; sprinkle with the parsley, onion and 
brown breadcrumbs, also seasoning ; place a few bits of 
butter here and there, and bake in a moderate oven for 
half an hour. 



82 



SAVOURIES 

(WITH BREAKFAST AND SUPPER DISHES). 
ANCHOVY EGGS. No. 168. 



3 anchovies. j 3 croutes of fried bread, 

3 eggs. ' Anchovy paste. 

Cut the bread into rounds just large enough to hold a 
poached egg, fry them and dram ; wash the anchovies 
in warm water and take out the bones, keeping the fillets 
as neat as possible ; cut each fillet in two lengthways. 
Have a saucepan half full of simmering water on the 
stove, put in a little salt and two drops of vinegar ; drop 
the eggs in carefully and poach slowly for 3 minutes ; 
drain them and place on the crotltes, trimming the eggs 
neat. Place the anchovy fillets in cross bars on the eggs, 
4 on each ; decorate with a pinch of chopped parsley and 
serve hot. 

The croutes may be spread with anchovy paste if liked. 

BOMBAY TOASTS. No. 169. 



1 oz. anchovies. j 1 oz. butter. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. 1 tablespoon cream. 

Croutes of bread. i Cayenne. 

Wash the anchovies in warm water, bone and pound 
them with the butter to a paste ; melt this slowly in a 



SAVOURIES. 83 

saucepan ; add the yolks mixed with the cream and 
cayenne ; stir over gentle heat to the consistency of thick 
cream ; spread thick on some small oval croiites of fried 
bread and serve very hot. 

BEEF GALANTINE. No. 170. 



^ lb. lean beef. 3 oz. bacon. 

1 egg. 4 oz. breadcrumbs. 

Salt and pepper. A little grated nutmeg. 

Scrape the beef very fine or pass it through a minc- 
ing machine ; mix it well with the breadcrumbs, season- 
ing and bacon cut very small ; beat the egg and bind the 
mixture into a stiff paste with it ; form into a short, thick 
roll, tie securely in a dry pudding cloth, plunge into boil- 
ing water for 3 or 4 minutes, then only simmer it very 
gently for 1^ hours. Take up and press between two 
dishes with a weight on top till quite cold, when trim off 
the ends and brush the top over with glaze (No. 417). 

BEEF CAKE. No. 171. 



1 lb. fillet of beef. 
1 dessertspoon parsley. 
Salt and pepper. 
B sheets gelatine. 



1 hard-boiled egg. 

^ teaspoon thyme. 

1 pint stock. 

^ teaspoon grated lemon. 



Cut the egg into slices and then in half, and place them 
all round the bottom of an oval plain tin ; take away 
all fat and skin from the beef, and cut into half-inch 
square pieces ; chop parsley and thyme very fine ; put 
the beef into the tin and sprinkle the flavourings and 
seasonings betw^een ; fill the mould with stock, which 
should have the gelatine dissolved in it, unless the stock 



84 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

is a good jelly, in which case it is unnecessary ; cover 
with a greased paper and bake very slowly for 2 hours. 
Turn out when quite cold and decorate with parsley. 



CHEESE SAVOURY. No. 172 



Some milk or other small dry 
biscuits. 

2 oz. grated Parmesan. 

2 oz. grated Gruy^re. 

1 dessertspoon essence of an- 
chovy. 



2 yolks of egg. 

1 white of egg. 

2 oz. butter. 
Salt and cayenne. 
Red breadcrumbs. 



Melt the butter and cook all the ingredients to a paste, 
season well with cayenne ; spread this thick on the bis- 
cuits and sprinkle with red crumbs and grated cheese. 
Serve cold ; decorate with parsley. 

CHEESE FRITTERS. No. 173. 



3 oz. Cheddar cheese. 3 oz. flour. 

1 egg. ^ gill water. 

Salt and cayenne. 1 teaspoon salad oil. 

Cut the cheese into one-mch square pieces ; put the 
flour, salt and cayenne pepper into a basin ; make a hole 
in the middle of it, into w^hich drop the yolk of the egg 
and salad oil ; stir this to a smooth batter with the water, 
lukewarm, and beat for 5 or 6 minutes ; whisk the white 
of egg to a stiff froth ; stu' lightly into the batter just 
before frying; pass the pieces of cheese through the 
batter, using a steel skewer for the purpose ; drop care- 
fully into hot fat, fry to a pale golden colour, drain on 
kitchen paper, pile up high on a napkin or paper, and 
dust with gi'ated cheese. Serve hot. 



SAVOURIES. 85 

CHICKENS' LIVERS . No. 174. 

2 or 3 chickens' livers. I 2 oz. fat bacon. 

1 teaspoon tarragon vinegar, i 1 teaspoon parsley. 

I teaspoon mustard. [ J teaspoon onion. 

Cayenne and salt. i 1 teaspoon anchovy essence. 

Cut the livers into one-inch square pieces and the 
bacon into very thin slices, long enough to roll them in ; 
chop the parsley and onion very fine and mix them on 
a plate with the essence, vinegar, mixed mustard and 
seasoning. Lay the pieces of liver in this for half an 
hour or so, then wrap each piece in a strip of bacon ; 
place them on a greased baking-tin, sprinkle with red 
breadcrumbs, and bake about 10 minutes. Serve on 
small rounds of fried bread, hot. 



EGG AND TOMATO SALAD. No. 175. 



2 hard-boiled eggs. 
I lettuce. 
^ endive. 



I gill Mayonnaise sauce (No. 

121). 
I lb. tomatoes. 
^ teaspoon chopped onion. 



Cut the eggs in half ; take a small piece from the end 
of each to make them stand straight ; drop the tomatoes 
into boiling water half a minute to loosen the skins ; skin 
them and cut in slices ; take out the yolks and stand the 
white cases on a slice of tomato, shred all the salad, and 
cut the remaining tomatoes into small squares ; mix these 
into the sauce with the onion and season nicely ; place 
some of the salad on a dish and arrange the eggs filled 
and tomato on it ; decorate with small pieces of endive 
round, and the yolk of egg passed through a wire sieve 
over. 



86 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

FISH SALAD. No. 176 . 

1 whiting or the remains of 8 tablespoons oih 

any cold fish. ^ teaspoon chopped onion. 

2 anchovies. Lettuce and endive. 

1 small beetroot, 1 hard-boiled egg. 
Salt and pepper. ^ teaspoon mustard. 

2 tablespoons vinegar. 

Flake the fish, taking away skin and bones ; bone and 
cut the anchovies into small pieces ; shred the beetroot 
into inch lengths ; shred the white of the egg and salad ; 
put the salt, pepper, yolk of egg, mustard and vinegar 
into a basin ; mix well together with a wooden spoon ; 
stir in the salad oil thoroughly ; add the onion, fish, egg 
and salad ; toss lightly with two w^ooden spoons until all 
the dressing is used up ; put into the salad bowl and 
decorate w^ith the yolk of egg passed through a wire sieve 
and some fancifully-cut bits of beetroot. 

FISH AND MACARONI PIE . No. 177. 

^ lb. cold cooked fish. i Brown breadcrumbs. 

3 oz. macaroni. ' ^ pint white sauce (No. 133). 
Salt and pepper. I 1 blade mace. 

Take off the skin and bones and flake the fish ; boil the 
macaroni (No. 423) ; cut into half-inch lengths ; heat the 
sauce with the mace ; put into it the fish, macaroni and 
seasoning ; pour into a well-buttered pie dish ; sprinkle 
over the top some brown breadcrumbs ; bake in a 
moderate oven for 15 to 20 minutes. 

FISH CAKES . No. 178. 

6 oz. dried haddock. 1 egg. 

8 oz. boiled potatoes. 1 oz. butter. 

1 teaspoon parsley. > 1 teaspoon anchovy essence. 

Salt and cayenne, i 



SAVOURIES. 87 

Pass the potatoes through a wire sieve ; take away the 
skin and bones and chop the haddock very fine ; melt 
the butter, put in the potatoes, fish, parsley chopped, 
seasoning and anchovy ; stir till hot over the fire ; take 
off and add enough of the egg beaten to make a softish 
paste ; spread the mixture on a plate to cool. When set, 
make up into small flat cakes, using a very little flour and 
a knife ; egg and crumb them ; flatten the crumbs on 
very neatly ; put in the frying basket and fry a golden 
brown ; drain on paper. Dish in a circle, with fried 
parsley in the centre (No. 431). 



FISH OMELET. No. 179. 



3 eggs. 

1 oz. cold fish. 

1 teaspoon anchovy essence. 

^ teaspoon chopped onion. 

^ teaspoon chopped parsley. 



2 oz. butter. 
^ oz. flour. 
^ gill milk. 
Salt and cayenne. 



Take half the butter ; dissolve it, cook the flour in it, 
add the milk, seasoning and anchovy and boil to a 
creamy sauce ; mince the fish and put it in ; keep warm ; 
put the yolks of egg into a basin with some seasoning, 
the parsley and onion ; stir enough to mix ; whisk the 
whites to a stifl" froth and mix in lightly. Make the 
other butter hot in a small round omelet pan, skim it, 
pour in the eggs and stir until they just set ; spread 
them over the pan, put the fish mixture on one half, 
turn the other half of the omelet over it and turn out 
on to a hot dish. Serve at once. 



88 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

FORCEMEAT BALLS (EGGED AND CRUMBED). No. 180. 



3 oz. breadcrumbs. 

1 oz. suet. 

1 egg. 

Salt and cayenne. 



1 dessertspoon chopped parsley. 
J teaspoon chopped thyme. 
J teaspoon grated lemon. 
J teaspoon grated nutmeg. 



Skin and chop the suet very fine, using some of the 
crumbs to keep it free ; mix with the parsley, thyme, 
lemon, nutmeg and seasoning ; beat the egg to a light 
froth and stir enough of it in to form a stiff paste ; roll 
into very small balls, egg and crumb them and fry a 
minute or so in the frying basket in smoking hot fat, 
drain on paper, and they are ready for use. 

HUNTERS' TOASTS. No. 181. 



2 or 3 game livers. I 1^ oz. butter. 

Cayenne and salt. I Croutes of fried bread. 

Wash the livers and tie them in muslin, cook in the 
stock pot about 15 to 20 minutes, when cold grate or 
chop them very fine ; melt the butter, put in the livers 
with plenty of salt and cayenne, stir over the fire until 
quite hot, pile up on small round croutes of fried bread 
or buttered toast ; decorate with red breadcrumbs and 
sieved yolk of egg or parsley. Serve very hot. 



HADDOCK AND EGGS . No. 182. 

4 oz. dried haddock. I 3 eggs. 

1^ oz. butter. | Buttered toast. 

Break the haddock cooked, into small flakes ; beat the 
eggs to a light froth, mix in the fish, season with salt 



SAVOURIES. 



8g 



and pepper ; dissolve the butter in a small frying-pan, 
stir the eggs and fish into it over a slow fire until a 
softish paste is formed; turn on to a piece of hot buttered 
toast ; sprinkle with a little parsley. Serve very hot. 

N.B. — Ham or tongue and eggs can be dressed in this 
way. 



HADDOCK A:^^D TOMATOES. 

1 dried haddock. 

^ lb. tomatoes. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 



No. 183. 



^ teaspoon chopped onion, 
1^ oz. butter. 
Salt and pepper. 



Dip the tomatoes into boiling water for half a minute, 
skin and slice them thinly ; melt the butter in a stewpan, 
put in the tomatoes, parsley, onion and seasoning ; simmer 
gently for 15 minutes ; scald the haddock for 5 minutes, 
take off the skin and the bones and break the fish into 
flakes, put into the tomatoes and simmer 10 minutes 
longer, taking care it does not boil. Dish in a border of 
boiled rice or macaroni. 



K.EGEREE. 

1 dried haddock. 
3 oz. Carolina rice. 
Salt and pepper. 



No. 184. 



1 oz. butter. 

1 hard-boiled egg. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley, 



Scald the haddock for 10 minutes ; take off skin and 
bones and flake the fish ; boil the rice until quite tender 
in boiling water ; drain it ; chop the white of the egg ; 
melt the butter, put in the fish, rice, egg and seasoning ; 
stir over the fire until the mixture is hot through. Pile up 
on a hot dish ; garnish with the yolk of egg sprinked over. 



go HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

KIDNEYS EGGED AND CRUMBED. No. 186. 



2 sheep's kidneys. 
2 tomatoes. 
Salt and pepper. 



Egg and breadcrumbs. 
I oz. butter. 



Cut the kidneys in half, skin them and cut out the 
muscles ; dip each half in a little flour, salt and pepper, 
then into well-beaten egg and fine breadcrumbs ; fry for 
3 or 4 minutes in smoking hot fat ; skin and slice the 
tomatoes; melt the butter and cook the tomatoes in it 
with a little seasoning until they are quite tender ; pour 
out on a dish and place the kidneys on them. 



MACARONI RISSOLES. 



No. 186. 



4 oz. short crust (No. 239). 
1 oz. butter. 
J oz. flour. 
1^ oz. grated cheese. 



1 oz. macaroni. 

f gill milk. 

J teaspoon mixed mustard. 

Salt and pepper. 



Boil the macaroni until quite tender (No. 423), drain 
and rinse it in cold \vat6r, cut it into very thin little 
rings ; melt the butter, stir in the flour and milk and 
boil to a thick sauce, add seasonings, macaroni and 
cheese. Roll out the short crust as thin as possible and 
cut into small rounds, place a teaspoon of the mixture on 
one half of the pastry, wet the edges and close over the 
other half ; dip the rissoles into w^ell-beaten egg, then into 
broken up vermicelli ; fry for 4 minutes in smoking hot 
fat, drain on paper and serve with fried parsley (No. 
431). 



SAVOURIES. 
MACARONI CROQUETTE S . 



91 
No. 187. 



2 oz. macaroni. 

1 gill white sauce (No. 133). 

Yolk of one egg. 



2 oz. lean cooked ham. 

Salt and cayenne. 

A little grated nutmeg. 



Cook the macaroni until tender (No. 423) and chop it 
quite fine; heat the sauce, stir in the macaroni, ham, 
seasoning and yolk of egg ; turn on a plate to cool a little ; 
when set make up into small balls, using a little flour to 
prevent the mixture from sticking to the hands ; egg and 
breadcrumb them and fry in very hot fat a light brown 
colour. Serve with fried parsley. 



MACARONI AND TOMATOES . 

2 oz. macaroni. 
1 oz. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 
Salt and pepper. 



No. 188. 



^ lb. tomatoes. 
1 gill milk. 
3 oz. grated cheese. 
Red breadcrumbs. 



Boil the macaroni (No. 423) until quite tender, drain 
it and cut into half-inch lengths ; melt the butter, cook the 
flour in it a little, stir in the milk and boil up ; season ; 
skin the tomatoes, first plunging them into boiling water 
for half a minute, slice them and put into the sauce, stir 
over the fire until they are tender and the sauce a nice 
consistency ; take off, add the cheese and pour into 
a gi-eased pie dish ; mix one dessertspoon of cheese 
with one of red or brown breadcrumbs, sprinkle this 
over the top and bake for about half an hour. Serve 
hot. 



92 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

MACARONI CHEESE. No. 189. 



3 oz. macaroni. 
1 oz. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 
3 oz. cheese. 



I pint milk. 

^ teaspoon mixed mustard. 

Salt and pepper. 



Cook the macaroni quite tender (No. 423) ; cut it into 
short lengths. 

Grate or chop the cheese, melt the butter, stir in the 
flour, cook it a minute or so ; add the milk and seasoning, 
boil up stirring all the time ; put in the macaroni and 
cheese ; pour into a pie dish, sprinkle a little grated 
cheese over the top ; bake a nice brown in a hot oven 
for 10 or 15 minutes. Serve hot. 



OYSTER SAVOURY. No. 190. 



12 oysters. I Fried bread. 

1 oz. butter. I f gill milk. 

I oz. flour. I Salt and cayenne. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. i 

Beard the oysters and take off the hard muscles : chop 
the oysters roughly ; melt the butter, cook the flour in it 
a little, stir in the milk and enough oyster liquor to 
make up one gill, season and boil to a thick sauce ; add 
the lemon and oysters ; cut the bread into small rounds 
1^ inches in diameter ; fry to a light golden colour in 
smoking fat ; drain ; pile some of the mixture on each ; 
sprinkle some with fine parsley and some with red bread- 
crmnbs. Serve very hot. 



SAVOURIES. 93 

POTATO CHEESE. No. 191. 



6 good-sized potatoes. 
2 oz. grated cheese. 
Salt and cayenne. 



^ pint milk. 
1 oz. butter. 



Boil, dry and pass the potatoes through a wire sieve 
while they are hot and floury ; boil the butter and milk, 
heat the potatoes into it, season well and add 1 oz. of 
the cheese ; pour into a buttered pie dish, sprinkle the 
other cheese over, and bake a good brown in the oven. 

PORK PIES. No. 192. 



J lb. lean fresh pork. 

1 teaspoon chopped sage. 
Salt and pepper. 

2 tablespoons water. 



1 gill milk. 
4 oz. lard. 
1 lb. flour. 
6 peppercorns. 



Cut away the bones ; put them into a stewpan with 1 
pint of cold water and half a teaspoon of salt ; bring to 
the boil and skim ; put in the peppercorns and simmer 
very gently for 1| hours ; strain ; cut the pork in small 
squares, mix it with the water, sage and seasoning on 
a plate ; put the flour into a basin with 1 teaspoon of 
salt ; make a hole in the middle and pour in the milk and 
lard, which previously boil together ; knead well with the 
hand until smooth and free from cracks ; form three parts 
of this crust into an oval-shaped mould about a quarter 
of an inch thick all round (this is best done on a floured 
board, using the tips of the fingers to raise the crust and 
supporting the shape with the hand); fill in with the pork, 
roll out the rest of the crust the same thickness with a 
rolling pin, wet the edges of the pie and press on the lid 
from the inside, make a hole in the top, trim off the 



94 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 



edges of crust, which roll out and cut some small leaves 
and a frill ; place these in the hole, brush the pie all 
over with beaten egg, place on a greased tin, put into a 
good hot oven for 20 minutes, then cover with a greased 
paper, put in a cool part of the oven and bake for 1^ 
hours. While hot take out the frill with the point of a 
knife from the centre and fill the pie with the stock ; 
allow to go cold. 



POACHED EGGS. No. 193. 

3 eggs. ! 3 squares buttered toast. 

3 drops vinegar. | Chopped parsley. 

These are best done in a shallow pan, but use sufficient 
water to well cover the eggs ; add to it 8 drops of vinegar 
and half a teaspoon of salt ; bring the water to the simmer 
ing point (do not allow it to bubble) ; drop the eggs into 
it very carefully and simmer gently for 3 to 4 minutes ; 
have the toast ready, hot, trimmed and buttered ; drain 
the eggs well from the water, place on the toast, and put 
a pinch of parsley on top of each ; send at once to table. 



SPITCHCOCK. No. 194. 



1 chicken. 1 teaspoon chopped shalot. 

Salt and cayenne. 1 dessertspoon chopped parsley. 

1 teaspoon good curry powder. ^ teaspoon chopped thyme. 

2 oz. butter. 2 oz. brown breadcrumbs. 
Lemon juice. 

Take a tender chicken, draw it and split it down the 
back ; remove the first joints of the legs and wings, and 
skewer it into a good flat shape ; dissolve the butter and 



SAVOURIES. 95 

brush the chicken well over with it, season both sides 
with cayenne and salt, and then with the parsley, thyme 
and shalot, lastly with the curry powder. Oil a gridiron 
and make it hot ; grill the chicken briskly for 10 or 12 
minutes, brush it again well with butter and sprinkle 
with the crumbs ; grill gently, turning it frequently until 
done 20 to 30 minutes more ; place on a hot dish, take 
out skewers and sprinkle over with lemon juice ; garnish 
with parsley. 

STEWED KIDNEYS (I.). No. 195. 

2 sheep's kidneys. ' 1 oz. butter. 



1 gill brown stock. 
1 teaspoon lemon juice. 
I teaspoon chopped onion. 
1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 



^ oz. flour. 
2 oz. bacon. 
Croutes of fried bread. 
Salt and cayenne. 



Split the kidneys down the back, take oif the skin and 
cut away all the hard muscles ; make the butter smoking 
hot, put in the kidneys cut side down and fry them a 
minute ; turn over and do the same on the other side ; 
take out ; add the onion and flour and fry brown ; stir 
in the stock and boil up ; add parsley, seasoning, lemon 
and kidneys ; stew very gently for half an hour, taking 
great care that the gravy never once boils, or the kidneys 
will be hardened. Dish them on small rounds of fried 
bread with a tiny roll of thin bacon on each and pour 
the sauce round. 

STEWED KIDNEYS (II.). No. 196. 

2 sheep's kidneys. Salt and cayenne. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. A slice of toast. 

1 oz. butter. 

Split the kidneys down the back, take off the skin and 



96 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

cut out the hard muscles ; make the butter hot, but not 
brown ; put in the kidneys, parsley and seasoning ; toss 
about over a slow fire until they are tender 10 to 15 
minutes. Dish up on a slice of hot toast, pouring the 
parsley and butter over them. 



SAUSAGES EGGED AND CRUMBED. No. 197. 

^ lb. sausages. Egg and breadcrumbs. 

Parsley. i 

Take the skins off the sausages and make each one 
into three small ones, rolling them on a board and make 
them square at the ends with a knife ; dip them into well- 
beaten egg and fine breadcrumbs (firm the crumbs on 
well and neatly) ; put into a frying basket, fry for 5 
minutes in smoking hot fat ; drain on paper. Dish in 
cross bars and garnish with parsley. 



SHRIMP PATTIES. No. 198. 



i lb. rough puff pastry (No. 

238). 
1 blade mace, 
f oz. flour, 
legg. 



^ pint picked shrimps 
^ pint water. 
1 oz. butter. 
Salt and cayenne. 



Koll the pastry out half an inch thick ; stamp out some 
small rounds with a fluted cutter ; line one dozen patty 
pans. 

Simmer the shells of the shrimps with the mace and 
seasoning in the water for 10 minutes very slowly ; melt 
the butter ; cook the flour in it a minute ; strain the stock 
and add a little at a time to the flour ; stir well and boil 



SAVOURIES. 97 

up ; take off the fire ; put in the shrimps and half the egg 
well beaten ; fill the patty pans ; brush the tops over 
with the rest of the egg ; bake in a quick oven 20 to 30 
minutes. Serve garnished with parsley. 

SAVOURY CUSTARD (for soups, etc.). No. 199. 



1 whole egg. 

1 yolk. 

Salt and pepper. 



1 gill milk or stock. 
A little grated nutmeg. 



Whisk the egg well, mix with the stock, add the season- 
ing ; strain into a well- greased pot or cup ; stand the cup 
in a pan of hot water sufficient to come half-way up the 
sides ; cover with a greased paper and steam very slowly 
for 20 minutes. If the custard is cooked quickly it will 
be found full of holes and inconvenient for cutting into 
fancy shapes. 

Allow the custard to cool a little before cutting up. 

SCOTCH EGGS WITH TOMATOES. No. 200. 



2 hard-boiled eggs. 
2 sausages. 
1 teaspoon parsley. 
^ teaspoon onion. 
Salt and pepper. 



Egg and breadcrumbs. 
^ lb. tomatoes. 
2 tablespoons water. 
^ oz. butter. 



When the eggs are boiled put them into cold water ; 
take off the shells without breaking the eggs ; skin the 
sausages; press them out into thin pads and then Une 
the eggs thinly over wdth them ; use a few breadcrumbs 
to keep the meat from sticking to the hands ; roll them 
neat and flat at the ends so that they will stand straight 
when cut open ; egg and crumb them and fry in hot fat 



98 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

in the basket for 4 to 6 minutes ; drain and cut in two 
with a sharp knife. In the meantime, drop the tomatoes 
into boihng water for half a minute ; skin and slice them 
thin ; put into a stewpan with the water, parsley and onion 
very finely chopped, butter and seasoning ; simmer slowly 
until quite tender 10 minutes ; pour on a dish and place 
the eggs on the sauce. 



SAVOURY OMELET. No. 201. 

3 eggs. 1 oz. butter. 

1 teaspoon parsley. Salt and pepper. 

I teaspoon onion. 

Chop the parsley and onion very fine ; separate the 
yolks from the whites, mix the yolks with the parsley 
and onion, season and stir a little ; whisk the whites to 
a stiff froth and work into the yolks very lightly ; heat 
the butter, allow the moisture to boil out of it without 
burning it ; skim it, when hot ; pour in the eggs, stir until 
well mixed with the butter and just setting, fold over 
to one side of the pan ; fry to a light brown and turn 
out. Serve immediately. 

N.B. — The quicker an omelet is fried the better. 

SAVOURY EGGS. No. 202. 



4 eggs. t 1 oz. lean cooked ham. 

1 oz. butter. I 1 teaspoon fine parsley. 

Salt and pepper. ' 4 round croutes of bread. 

Soften the butter a very little, and coat. 4 small plain 
dariole moulds with it thickly ; chop the ham and parsley 
very fine and sprinkle the tins with it ; drop one raw 



SAVOURIES. gg 

egg into each mould, season with a dash of salt and 
pepper on the top ; stand in a stewpan ; pour sufficient 
boiling water round to come half-way up the moulds ; 
place a greased paper over the top and simmer very 
gently until the eggs are just set. Turn out on croutes of 
fried bread only large enough to hold the egg. Send to 
table garnished with parsley. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. No. 203. 



3 eggs. 

Salt and pepper. 

Toast. 



1^ oz. butter. 
1 tablespoon milk. 



Dissolve and skim the butter in a small frying-pan ; 
beat the eggs a little in a basin, add the milk and 
seasoning to them, pour into the butter; stir until the 
eggs are well mixed with it, then scrape the eggs off the 
pan in flakes as they set (this should be done over a slow 
fire to keep the eggs soft and creamy) ; pile up very hot 
on small rounds of hot buttered toast ; sprinkle a little 
finely chopped parsley on top and serve at once. 

SAVOURY EGGS, COLD. No. 204. 



2 bard-boiled eggs. 

Salt and pepper. 

J teaspoon chopped parsley. 



1 oz. butter. 

2 teaspoons anchovy essence. 
4 croutes fried bread. 



When the eggs are cold cut them in half, take out the 
yolks, cut a small piece from the end of the eggs, and 
stand the -cases straight on small croutes of fried bread ; 
put the yolks, butter, essence, parsley and seasoning into 
a small basin, and work to a smooth cream with a wooden 
spoon ; fill the egg cases with the mixture and decorate 
with sprigs of parsley. 



loo HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES, 

SAVOURY PUDDING. No. 205. 



3 oz. breadcrumbs. 

3 oz. suet. 

1 egg. 

3 medium onions. 



3 oz. medium oatmeal. 
1 dessertspoon sage. 
I pint milk. 
Salt and pepper. 



Soak the bread in the milk ; boil and chop the onion 
fine with the sage ; chop the suet very fine ; mix all 
together, season and stir in the egg beaten ; bake in a 
well-greased Yorkshire tin about three-quarters of an 
hour. Serve with roast pork, etc. 



SAVOURY MACARONI (I.). 

1 lb. macaroni. 
1 pint veal gravy. 
4 oz. grated cheese. 
Salt and pepper. 



No. 206. 



3 oz. butter. 
1 onion. 
1 sprig parsley, 
1 sprig thyme. 



Boil the macaroni (No. 423); have the gravy in a sauce- 
pan with the onion sliced, parsley and thyme ; simmer 
until the onion is tender ; take out the herbs ; put in the 
macaroni, butter, and season well ; pour into a pie dish ; 
sprinkle the cheese over and bake 20 to 30 minutes in a 
moderate oven. 



SAVOURY MACARONI (II.). 

6 oz. macaroni. 

4 oz. grated Parmesan. 

3 tomatoes. 



No. 207. 

2 oz. butter. 

J pint white sauce (No. 133). 

Salt and cayenne. 



Boil the macaroni until quite tender (No. 423) ; put it 
into a pan with the butter, cheese, and season well; mix ; 
put this into a pie dish, heat the sauce, stir in the toma- 



SAVOURIES. loi 

toes skinned and sliced thinly, pour over the macaroni, 

sprinkle with cheese and breadcrumbs ; bake half an 
hour. 



TOMATO OMELET. No. 208. 

2 eggs. j 2 tomatoes. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 1^ oz. butter. 

^ teaspoon chopped onion. | Salt and pepper. 

Skin and slice the tomatoes ; melt half the butter in a 
saucepan ; put in the tomatoes, parsley, onion and season- 
ing ; cook this gently until quite tender ; beat the eggs 
lightly ; season ; make the rest of the butter hot in an 
omelet pan, pour in the eggs, stir until just setting, 
spread over the pan, put half the tomato mixture on one 
side, fold the omelet over, turn out on a hot dish, and 
pour the rest of the tomato round. 

VEAL GALANTINE. No. 209. 



2-3 lb. middle breast of veal. 1 hard-boiled egg. 

J lb. sausages. I 8 mushrooms. 

Nutmeg. ' Salt and pepper. 
3 oz. fat bacon. 

Cut the small bones out of the meat and season it all 
over with salt, pepper and nutmeg ; skin the sausages and 
spread half of them thinly over the meat ; lay on this strips 
of egg, bacon and mushroom ; spread the other half of the 
sausage over, roll up firmly and tie in a pudding cloth, 
plunge into boiling water or stock for 5 minutes, then 
simmer gently for 1^ to 2 hours, according to the thick- 
ness (retie the cloth on the roll if the meat has shrunk 
in the cooking); press between two dishes wdth a weight 



102 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

on top until quite cold, when trim the edges off and 
brush over with glaze (No. 417) ; garnish with parsley. 



WINTER SALAD. No. 210. 



1 nice head celery. 

1 bunch watercress. 

^ teaspoon chopped onion. 



1 boiled beetroot. 

1 gill Mayonnaise (No. 121). 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 



Take all the discoloured parts from the celery and 
shred it and the beetroot into fine one-inch lengths, put 
them into a mixing basin ; pour the Mayonnaise over the 
seasoning, onion and parsley ; mix lightly (without break- 
ing the beet more than can be helped) with two wooden 
spoons ; put into the salad bowl ; garnish with sprigs of 
watercress. 



I03 



COLD MEAT COOKERY. 

BOUDINETTES. No. 211. 



1 oz. butter. 

Salt and pepper. 

A little grated nutmeg. 



4 oz. cold meat. 
2 oz. potatoes. 
1 egg. 



Take off the fat and chop the meat very fine ; sieve the 
potatoes ; melt the butter, put in the meat, potatoes and 
seasoning ; stir over the fire until hot, when mix in 
enough beaten egg to bind the mixture ; turn out on a 
plate to cool ; when set make up into small cork shapes, 
egg and crumb them, fry in smoking hot fat ; drain and 
serve with brown sauce or fried parsley. 



COLD BEEF AU GRATIN. No. 212. 



^ lb. cold roast beef. 

1 teaspoon chopped onion. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 



1 pint brown sauce (No. 109). 
3 mushrooms. 

2 oz. brown breadcrumbs. 



Cut the cold beef into slices about a quarter of an inch 
thick ; lay them in a pie dish, sprinkhng the layers with 
parsley, onion, salt, pepper and mushrooms chopped ; 
pour the brown sauce over, sprinkle with the breadcrumbs, 
put tiny pieces of butter here and there on the top, and 
bake in a moderate oven half an hour. 



I04 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

COLD MEAT TARTLETS . No. 213. 

4 oz. cold meat. J teaspoon chopped onion. 

1 lb. cooked potatoes. 4 teaspoon chopped parsley. 

IJ oz. butter. Salt and pepper. 

1 egg. 1 gill stock. 
J oz. flour. 

Pass the potatoes through a sieve while they are hot ; 
melt 1 ounce of the butter in a saucepan ; put in the 
potatoes wnth seasoning and a little grated nutmeg ; stir 
until hot over the fire ; take off and stir in the egg beaten. 
Well grease some small moulds or darioles and coat them 
round with brown or red breadcrumbs, then line them 
thinly with the potato (the easiest way to do this is to 
roll the potato into balls, drop them carefully into the 
mould, and then take a teaspoon dipped in hot water 
and press from the middle to the sides) ; when they are 
done, melt the half-ounce butter, cook the onion in it, 
stir in the flour and stock, season and boil to a thick 
sauce ; put in the meat, freed from fat and skin and 
chopped very fine, the parsley and a little grated nutmeg ; 
fill the moulds with this ; put on a thin lid of potato and 
bake 15 to 20 minutes in a hot oven. Serv^ with brown 
or tomato sauce, poured round them on the dish. 

CHICKEN CUTLETS. No. 214. 



6 oz. cold chicken. 

I oz. butter. 

^ oz. flour. 

Salt and cavenne. 



2 oz. lean cooked ham. 
f gill milk. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 
1 teaspoon lemon juice. 



Mince the chicken and ham very fine ; melt the butter 
in a saucepan, add the flour and milk ; boil to a thick 



COLD MEAT COOKERY. 



105 



sauce, stir in the ham, chicken, seasoning, parsley and 
lemon juice ; mix well ; turn on a plate to cool ; when set 
make into small cutlets, egg and crumb them and fry to 
a light brown in hot fat ; stick an inch of parsley stalk 
in the narrow end of each to imitate the bone ; dress in 
a circle, and serve with fried parsley in the centre and 
tomato sauce round. 



CHICKEN FKICASSEE. 

Remains of a cold chicken. 
1 blade mace. 
Salt and cayenne. 
1 oz. butter. 



No. 215. 



I oz. flour. 

f pint milk. 

Sippets of fried bread. 



Cut the chicken into rather small joints, take off the 
skin, simmer this with any odd bits in the milk with the 
mace slowly for 15 minutes ; strain ; melt the butter, 
cook the flour well in it without browning, add the milk 
(a little at a time), season and stir to the boil ; place the 
pieces of chicken in the sauce and simmer gently until 
quite hot through. Serve with sippets of fried bread and 
small rolls of bacon. 



COLD MEAT FRITTERS. 

3 oz. cold meat. 

legg. 

A little grated nutmeg. 

Salt and pepper. 



No. 216. 



4 oz. flour. 

1 gill tepid water. 

1 teaspoon salad oil. 



Put the flour in a mixing basin, make a hole in the 
middle of it and drop in the oil and yolk of egg, stir to 
a smooth batter with the water and beat for 5 minutes ; 
whisk the white of the egg to a stitf froth and mix in 



io6 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

very lightly with the seasoning, nutmeg and meat minced 
fine ; have the frying fat smoking, but not too fierce ; 
drop in dessertspoonfuls of the mixture, keeping the spoon 
still as you scrape the fritters ofif with another spoon ; 
fry to a very light brown, turning the fritters about as 
they fry ; drain well on paper and serve at once. 



CURRY OF COLD MEAT. 




No. 217. 


J lb. cold meat. 


1 onion. 




1 oz. flour. 


1 apple. 




J oz. curry powder. 


1 tomato. 




1 gill stock (No. 2). 


1 oz. cocoanut. 




1 teaspoon curry paste. 


Salt. 




1 oz. butter. 







Make the butter hot ; slice the onion thin and fry to a 
light brown ; stir in the flour and curry powder and cook 
a minute or so ; add the stock slowly and boil up the 
sauce ; skin and slice the tomato ; peel and chop the 
apple ; mix these in with salt, sugar, paste and cocoanut ; 
simmer for 1 hour, stirring frequently ; cut the meat into 
one-inch squares, removing most of the fat and skin ; put 
into the sauce and heat gently through, unless the meat 
is very underdone, in which case simmer it until quite 
tender (it may take an hour). Serve in a border of rice 
(No. 422). 



CURRIED CROQUETTES. No. 218. 

Croquettes (No. 221). | Curry sauce. 

Make the sauce as in the preceding recipe, only adding 
half a pint of stock instead of a quarter, and when sim- 



COLD MEAT COOKERY. 107 

mered strain ; drain the croquettes well after frying them, 
and put them into the sauce for 15 to 20 minutes to heat 
through, taking care not to break them. Serve in a 
border of rice (No. 422). 



COLD MEAT CAKE. No. 219. 



J lb. cold meat. 

1 egg. 

1 oz. butter. 

3 oz. breadcrumbs. 



1^ gills sauce (No. 109). 
Salt and pepper. 
1 teaspoon chopped onion. 



Mince the meat very fine, taking away the fat and skin ; 
melt the butter and fry the onion to a light colour; put 
in the meat, breadcrumbs, sauce and seasoning ; stir well 
together and bind with the egg beaten ; grease a tin just 
large enough to hold the mixture ; line it with brown 
breadcrumbs, fill in with the meat, cover with a greased 
paper, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. 
Turn out and serve, brown sauce round. 

This makes a pretty dish if done in small dariole moulds 
instead of a large tin. 

COLD MEAT OLIVES. No. 220. 



6 or 7 slices of cold meat. 1 Forcemeat (No. 180). 

^ pint brown sauce (No. 109). | Salt and pepper. 

Trim the meat neatly round the edges ; the slices 
should be about 3 inches long by 2 wide ; spread a thin 
layer of the forcemeat down the centre of each slice ; 
roll up and tie them loosely round so as not to mark 
them ; put them into the sauce cold and simmer gently 
for half an hour ; dish them on a strip of mashed 



io8 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

potato and sauce over and round ; garnish the dish 
with any kind of vegetable. 

CROQUETTES. No. 221. 



6 oz. cold meat. 

1 teaspoon parsley. 

1 teaspoon chopped onion, 

A little grated nutmeg. 



1 oz. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 
1 gill stock. 
Salt and pepper. 



Mince the cold meat very fine, taking away a*ll the fat, 
skin and gristle ; melt the butter and fry the onion to a 
light brown ; add the flour and stock ; boil to a thick 
sauce ; put in the meat, parsley, nutmeg and seasoning ; 
stir over the fire until the mixture is hot through ; spread 
out on a plate to cool ; when firm enough make up into 
small round balls, using a very little flour, if necessary, 
if the meat is beef or mutton ; egg and crumb the 
croquettes twice to make them a nice colour ; fry in the 
basket in smoking hot fat to a golden brown ; drain and 
serve with fried parsley or brown sauce. 

COLD MEAT OMELET. No. 222. 

2 oz. cold meat. ! 3 eggs. 

^ teaspoon chopped parsley. | Salt and pepper. 

^ teaspoon chopped onion. 1 oz. butter. 

Chop the meat very fine ; separate the whites from the 
yolks of eggs ; put the yolks in a basin, mix in the meat, 
parsley, onion and seasoning ; beat the whites to a stiff 
froth and stir in very lightly ; make the butter hot in an 
omelet pan, gently boiling away from it the butter milk 
or water and then skim ; pour in the omelet mixture ; 
stir until just setting in a thick creamy state, then fold 



COLD MEAT COOKERY. log 

over to one side of the pan ; turn on to a hot dish ; 
garnish with fried parsley and serve at once. 

DURHAM CUTLETS. No. 223. 



2 oz. cold meat. 

1 oz. butter. 

2 oz. Carolina rice. 
Salt and pepper. 



J teaspoon chopped onion. 
J teaspoon chopped parsley. 
1 egg. 



Chop the meat quite fine, removing the skin, fat and 
gristle ; boil the rice in boiling salted water until quite 
tender ; drain dry ; melt the butter, cook the onion in 
it, add the meat, rice, parsley and seasoning; stir until 
hot over the fire, take off, and add sufficient of the egg 
(beaten) to bind the mixture well ; spread out on a plate 
to set ; when ready make up into small cutlets, egg and 
crumb them carefully, fry in hot fat to a good brown ; 
serve in a circle on spinach or potato, with brown sauce 
round. 

FRICASSEE OF COLD ROAST BEEF. No. 224. 

^ lb. cold beef. ^ lb. mushrooms. 

J pint stock. 1 oz. butter. 

1 onion. J oz. flour. 

1 oz. ham. i Salt and pepper. 

4 oz. macaroni. ' 1 teaspoon parsley. 

Slice the beef into quarter-inch slices ; make the butter 
hot ; chop finely the onions, mushrooms, ham and pars- 
ley ; fry these together for 5 or 10 minutes, stirring them 
about ; next stir in the flour and stock by degrees ; season 
and boil up ; take off the fire and, when well off the boil, 
lay in the slices of beef ; colour with a few drops of 
caramel and cook gently until the meat is tender ; serve 
in a border of boiled macaroni (No. 223). 



no HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

HASHED MUTTON. No. 225. 



Remains of cold mutton. 

1 carrot. 

1 turnip. 

1 onion. 

1 sprig parsley. 

1 sprig thyme. 



1 oz. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 
1 pint water. 
6 peppercorns. 
1 tomato. 
Salt and pepper. 



Cut off all the meat in slices quite half an inch thick ; 
break up the bones, put them into a stewpan with the 
cold water, vegetables cut in quarters, herbs and spices ; 
add some seasoning and a few drops of caramel ; simmer 
for 1^ hours ; strain and remove any fat with kitchen 
paper ; melt the butter, fry the flour brown in it, add 
the stock by degrees, and stir to the boil ; skin and slice 
the tomato, place this in the thick sauce with the meat, 
and simmer very slowly until the meat is tender. x\rrange 
the meat neatly on a dish, strain the sauce over, and 
sippets of dry toast round the dish. 



LIEBIG PATTIES. 

J loaf bread. 
J pint Liebig's beef tea. 
Little grated nutmeg. 
Salt and pepper. 



No. 226. 



4 oz. cold meat. 

J oz. butter. 

J oz. flour. 

^ teaspoon chopped onion. 



Cut the bread into a two-inch slice, and from this cut 
out some small rounds with a pastry cutter ; take out 
the centre with a pointed knife, leaving a thin case all 
round ; dissolve half a teaspoon of Liebeg's meat extract 
in half a pint of boiling water, allow it to cool, season 
with salt and pepper ; dip the cases in this and turn them 
upside down to drain, then egg and crumb them care- 



COLD MEAT COOKERY. 



fully and prepare a little lid for each ; fry them a nice 
colour in smoking hot fat ; drain on paper. 

Melt the butter and fry the onion a little ; stir in the 
flour and the rest of the beef tea ; boil to a thick sauce, 
into which put the meat finely chopped ; season, add 
nutmeg and stir until hot ; fill the cases high, put a 
lid on, dish on a paper and garnish with parsley. 



MINCE. 



No. 227. 



1 oz. butter. 
1 oz. flour. 
1 pint water. 
6 peppercorns. 
Salt and pepper. 



^ lb. remains of cold meat. 

1 carrot. 

1 turnip. 

1 onion. 

1 sprig parsley. 

1 sprig thyme. 

Put any bones and scraps from the meat into a pan 
with the water, vegetables cut up, parsley, thyme and 
peppercorns, a few drops of caramel and some seasoning ; 
simmer gently for an hour ; strain and take off the fat 
with a piece of kitchen paper ; melt the butter, fry the 
flour browm in it, stir in half pint of the stock or a little 
more if required (but a mince should be thick) ; boil up, 
take off the fire and put in the meat freed from fat and 
gristle and chopped fine ; stir over a gentle heat until 
hot through ; serve in a potato border (No. 160) or wath 
sippets of dry toast. 



MINCE AND TOMATOES. 

^ lb. cold meat. 
1 teaspoon onion. 
J pint stock. 
J lb. tomatoes. 

1 tablespoon brown bread- 
crumbs. 



No. 228. 



1 oz. butter. 

J oz. flour. 

Salt and pepper. 

A little grated nutmeg. 

1 teaspoon parsley. 



Mince the meat very fine ; dissolve the butter, fry the 



112 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

onion in it a little ; add the flour and stock by degrees, 
season with salt, pepper and a very little nutmeg ; stir 
to the boil, take off the fire and put in the meat, turn into 
a pie dish ; drop the tomatoes into boiling water half a 
minute, skin and slice them in rounds ; put these over 
the mince as a crust, sprinkle with brown breadcrumbs, 
seasoning and parsley ; bake in a moderate oven half an 
hour. 

MINCE PUDDING. No. 229. 



4 oz. meat. 
1 oz. butter. 
Salt and pepper. 
6 oz. flour. 



^ oz. flour. 
IJ gills stock. 
A little grated nutmeg. 
2 oz. suet. 



Skin, shred and chop the suet very fine, using a little 
of the flour to keep it free ; rub it well into the flour, 
add a little salt and mix into a stiff paste with cold water ; 
work the crust smooth and roll it out on a floured board 
a quarter of an inch thick ; grease a basin and line it with 
the pastry ; cut off the trimmings and roll them out for a 
lid ; melt the butter, cook the ^ oz. flour in it, stir in 
the stock and boil up ; season ; add the meat chopped 
fine ; pour into the lined basin ; wet the edges of the 
crust and press the lid of pastry firmly to them ; tie on 
a scalded and floured pudding cloth ; plunge into boiling 
water and boil fast for 1 hour; turn out and pour 
round a little thickened stock flavoured w4th mushroom 
ketchup. 

MINCE ROLLS. No. 230. 

^ gill stock. 



1 lb. potatoes. 
1| oz. butter. 
1 egg. 
3 oz. cold meat. 



^ oz. flour. 

J teaspoon chopped onion. 

A little grated nutmeg. 



COLD MEAT COOKERY. 113 

Take half the butter, melt it and fry the onion in it 
until a light brown ; add the flour and stock, boil up, 
season and add the meat very finely chopped ; boil the 
potatoes and pass them through a wire sieve ; melt the 
other half of the butter, put in the potatoes, a little nut- 
meg and seasoning ; stir until hot over the fire, take off 
and add the beaten egg. Take a small quantity of this 
and roll it into a small ball with the hand on a slightly 
floured board, flatten out to about half an inch thick ; put 
a dessertspoon of the meat mixture in the centre ; egg 
the edges of the potato and fold them over the meat ; 
turn the roll over, pat it into a nice shape flat at the 
ends with a knife, and so on until the meat and potatoes 
are used up ; place the rolls on a greased baking-tin, 
brush them with beaten egg, sprinkle with red crumbs 
and bake for 20 to 30 minutes in a brisk oven : garnish 
with parsley. 



ROMAN PUDDING . No. 231. 

Remains of cold rabbit, veal or i 2 oz. macaroni. 

chicken. ! 2 oz. Parmesan cheese. 

J pint white sauce (No. 133). I I pint brown sauce (No. 109). 

4 oz. short crust (No. 239). \ Vermicelli. 

Grease a pint cake tin and sprinkle it all over with 
broken up vermicelH ; roll out the short crust quite thin 
and line the tin right through with it ; cut off the edges ; 
boil the macaroni, drain it and cut it into short lengths ; 
cut the rabbit into small thin slices, heat the white sauce 
and stir in the rabbit, macaroni and cheese; fill the 
mould with this mixture, place a lid of pastry on top, 
pressing the edges firmly together with a little egg ; bake 



114 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

in a good oven for 1 hour; turn out and pour round 
a good brown sauce. 

SURPRISE POTATOES. No. 232. 

3 oz. mince (No. 227). i 6 large potatoes. 

Salt and pepper. | 

Choose good even-sized potatoes, scrub them quite 
clean, cut them in half and with a knife scoop out a good 
hole in each ; season them with salt and pepper and fill 
the holes w4th the mince ; make a stiffish paste of flour 
and water, brush the cut sides of the potatoes with it 
and stick them together again, being careful to put the 
right halves together or they w411 not stick in the cooking ; 
bake the potatoes for about 1 hour in a quick oven. Serve 
on a napkin with parsley to garnish. 

SCOLLOPS OF RABBIT. No. 233. 

6 oz. cold cooked rabbit. I 3 oz. cooked ham. 



^ pint white sauce (No. 133). 
1 oz. butter. 



3 oz. breadcrumbs. 



Butter some scollop shells and sprinkle them with 
breadcrmnbs ; chop the rabbit and ham finely and mix 
into the sauce ; season well ; half fill the shells with layers 
of rabbit and breadcrumbs, using crumbs last ; place a 
pat of butter on the top of each and bake for 15 to 20 
minutes. Serve decorated with parsley. 

TIMBALE OF COLD MEAT. No. 234. 

4 oz. cold mutton. ^ lb. tomatoes. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 1 oz. butter. 

1 teaspoon chopped onion. 1 egg. 

Red breadcrumbs. j IJ lb. potatoes. 

A little nutmeg. ] 

Grease a plain cake tin with butter and sprinkle it all 



COLD MEAT COOKERY. 115 

round with red breadcrumbs ; sieve the potatoes ; melt 
the butter, put in the potatoes, salt, pepper and a little 
nutmeg ; stir over the fire until hot, then beat in the egg 
well beaten ; drop some of this into the mould and with 
a spoon dipped in hot water line the tin thinly all round, 
working from the middle ; skin and slice the tomatoes 
and cut the meat into small thin wafers ; fill the mould 
with meat, tomatoes here and there, and sprinkle with 
onion and parsley, salt and pepper ; spread a lid of 
potatoes over the top, brush with egg and bake about an 
hour. Turn out and serve with the rest of the tomatoes, 
stewed down in a little butter and water to a sauce round 
the dish. 

VEAL ITALIAN STYLE. No. 235. 



^ lb. macaroni. 

4 oz. breadcrumbs. 

1 gill veal stock. 

J teaspoon grated lemon. 

1 gill brown sauce. 



1 lb. cooked veal. 

2 oz. cooked ham. 
Salt and cayenne. 
1 whole egg. 

1 yolk. 



Boil the macaroni tender (No. 423), but do not break 
it; butter a plain mould well and line it neatly round 
with the macaroni ; mix together the breadcrumbs (pre- 
viously soaked in the veal stock), the veal and ham 
minced, seasoning, brown sauce, lemon and eggs beaten ; 
pour carefully into the prepared mould, cover with a 
pudding cloth, plunge into boiling water and boil 1 
hour. Serve with brown sauce round. 



ii6 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. 

CORNFLOUR PASTRY. No. 236. 

3 oz. cornflour. 3 oz. butter. 

4 oz. flour. I 2 oz. castor sugar. 
Beaten egg and milk. I 

Put the cornflour and flour into a mixing basin ; rub the 
butter lightly into it ; add the sugar and mix in enough 
beaten egg and milk to form a stiff paste ; work up into 
a smooth ball. This is a nice light pastry for lining dishes 
and plates for different sweets. 



CHOUX PASTRY. No. 236fl. 



4 oz. flour. 
^ pint water. 
A pinch of salt. 



1^ oz. butter. 
1 whole egg. 
1 yolk. 



Dry and sift the flour ; boil the water and butter to- 
gether in a saucepan ; take off the fire ; stir in the flour 
all at once ; beat vigorously until no lumps remain ; cook 
over a slow fire for a few minutes, beating all the time, 
until the pastry takes an oily appearance ; . take off the 
fire and beat in the eggs and salt ; turn on to a floured 
board and make in the required shapes. 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. 117 

FLAKY PASTRY. No. 237. 

^ lb. flour. I 3 oz. lard. 

A pinch of salt. | Cold water. 

Pass the flour through a sieve into a mixing basin ; 
take half the lard and rub it Hghtly into the flour with 
the tips of the fingers, keeping the flour as cool as pos- 
sible ; add the salt and mix into a stiff paste with cold 
water (the less water used the better, so long as the 
crust is not made tough) ; rub a little flour well into the 
board and on the rolling-pin ; roll the pastry into a long 
strip, square at the edges, about an eighth of an inch thick. 
Divide the other half of the lard into three, lay one part 
in little pieces all down the crust evenly, dust slightly 
with flour, fold the crust into three, give it one turn 
round so that the open flap of pastry is at your right 
hand, seal the edges to keep in the air and roll out the 
same thickness again, commencing from the middle, so as 
to disperse the air in tiny bubbles all over the crust ; 
proceed in this way until all the fat is rolled in, and if it 
is not thoroughly mixed with three rolls, give it one or 
even two rolls without any fat, always folding into three. 



ROUGH PUFF PASTRY. <» No. 238. 



^ lb. flour. 

1 dessertspoon lemon juice. 

A pinch of salt. 



2 J oz. lard. 
2^ oz. butter. 
Cold water. 



Pass the flour through a wire sieve on to the pastry 
board ; put the fat on it and with a sharp knife cut it 
into the flour in pieces about the size of half a walnut ; 
make a well in the middle ; mix the lemon with about three 



ii8 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

parts of a gill of cold water ; draw the flour and butter 
into a rough paste with it (do not keep the pastry long 
in the hand, but put it on one side as it is mixed up) ; 
clean the board and flour it well ; roll the pastry out into 
a long strip, square at the edges ; fold into three, folding 
the top end to the centre first : turn round once and roll 
out again, observing the same rules as in making flaky 
pastry, four or five times if necessary, to mix in the fat. 
When it is done it should appear quite free from streaks 
of fat and smooth. This, like most of the other pastries, 
requires a good oven for baking. 

SHORT PASTRY (for savoury dishes) . No. 239. 

i lb. flour. I 3 oz. butter, dripping or lard. 

^ teaspoon salt. | J teaspoon baking powder. 

Sieve the flour into a basin ; rub the fat in lightly, first 
covering it with flour and breaking into small pieces ; 
when thoroughly incorporated, add salt and baking 
powder and mix into a smooth paste, stiff, with cold 
water ; work it smooth with a little flour, using as little 
as possible, and roll out once on a floured board. 

SHORT PASTRY (for sweet dishes). No. 240. 

I lb. flour. j 3 oz. lard, butter or dripping. 

^ teaspoon sugar. | A good pinch of salt. 

I teaspoon baking powder. 

Make exactly as in the preceding recipe. 

SUET CRUST. No. 241. 

^ lb. flour. 3 oz. suet. 

^ teaspoon salt. Cold water. 

Sieve the flour, skin, shred and then chop the suet 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. 



ig 



very fine, using some of the flour to keep it free ; rub it 
well into the flour, add the salt and mix into a stiff paste 
with cold water ; roll out once on a floured board. 



APRICOT SWEET. 

2 oz. butter. 

2 oz. castor sugar. 

2 eggs. 

1 tablespoon apricot jam. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Crystallised cherries. 



No. 242. 



3 oz. flour. 

J teaspoon baking powder. 

J teaspoon vanilla essence. 

1 gill water. 

1 oz. loaf sugar. 

1 oz. cocoanut. 



Butter eight small dariole moulds and dredge them 
with flour ; beat the butter and sugar to a soft cream, 
smooth and nearly white ; stir in the eggs one at a time 
thoroughly ; add the vanilla and flour by degrees, lastly 
the baking powder ; half fill the moulds and bake to a 
light brown 15 to 20 minutes in a moderate oven ; turn 
out. In the meantime the sauce should be made. Put 
the apricot jam, water or sherry, sugar and lemon into a 
saucepan and boil gently to a nice syrup ; do not stir, 
but skim off all scum as it rises (it will take about 10 
minutes) ; soak the cakes with the syrup while it is hot 
and do not strain it ; place half a cherry on the top of 
each and sprinkle round it a little cocoanut. Serve hot 
or cold. 



APRICOT EGGS. 

A sixpenny spongecake. 
4 pistachio kernels. 
A few drops of vanilla. 



J tin apricots. 
I pint cream. 
J oz. castor sugar. 



No. 243. 



Cut the spongecake into slices a quarter of an inch thick, 
then into rounds a shade larger than half an apricot with 



I20 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

a fluted cutter ; sprinkle a little of the apricot syrup over 
them ; place half an apricot on each, choosing the ripest 
ones ; whisk the cream stiffly ; mix it with the sugar and 
vanilla ; put it into a forcing bag and force the cream round 
the edge of the apricot to represent the white part of a 
poached egg ; blanch and chop the kernels very fine, 
sprinkle a little on top of each egg. Serve on a lace 
paper. 

ALMOND CREAM. No. 244. 



1 lb. apples. 

1 oz. loaf sugar. 

2 strips lemon rind. 

2 drops almond essence. 
6 oz. castor sugar. 



4 oz. ground almonds. 

2 oz. butter. 

3 eggs. 

I pint cream. 



Stew the apples to a thick marmalade, peel and core 
them and stew them gently with a very little water, the 
lemon and loaf sugar ; do not stir them while they are 
cooking, but shake the pan from time to time ; place 
them at the bottom of a pie dish, taking out the lemon ; 
dissolve the butter in a pan, put in the castor sugar, 
almonds, essence and eggs beaten to a light froth ; mix 
well together ; lay this on the apples and bake moderately 
for about half an hour; when cold, whisk the cream, 
sweeten and flavour it slightly with almond essence ; pile 
on top of the almond. Serve with a pie frill round the 
dish. 

ALMOND CHEESE CAKES. No. 245. 



6 oz. short crust. 

2 oz. ground almonds. 

2 drops almond essence 



2 oz. castor sugar. 
1 egg. 
Raspberry jam. 

Roll the pastry rather thin and line some greased 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. 121 

patty pans (10 or 12), cutting the pastry with a fluted 
cutter; place half a teaspoon of jam in the middle of 
each ; mix the almonds, essence, sugar, yolk of egg and 
white whisked stiffly well together ; put a teaspoonful in 
each patty pan, well covering the jam ; place very narrow 
matches of pastry across the top ; bake for 15 to 20 
minutes in a moderate oven ; dust wath sugar. 

ALMOND PUDDING. No. 246. 



4 oz. breadcrumbs. 
1^ oz. almonds. 
2 oz. sultanas. 
2 drops almond essence. 



2 oz. suet. 

2 oz. castor sugar. 

2 eggs. 



Chop the suet very fine, using some of the breadcrumbs 
to help to keep it free ; wash the sultanas, blanch and 
chop the almonds, whisk the eggs to a light froth ; mix 
all the ingredients \vell together; pour into a greased 
mould, cover with greased paper, steam 1^ hours, turn 
out and serve with custard sauce (No. 114) flavoured 
with almond poured round. 

APRICOT MOULD. No. 247. 



1 tin apricots. 1 3 oz. castor sugar. 

1 oz. cornflour. I A few drops cochineal. 

Pass the apricots through a hair sieve, add the sugar 
and cochineal and stir to the boil in an enamel saucepan ; 
mix the cornflour into a smooth cream with cold water, 
pour on the apricots, stir well, retm'n to the saucepan 
and boil until quite clear, stirring well all the time ; turn 
into a wetted mould and when cold turn out. 

These moulds can be done in the same way with 



122 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

any kind of fruit, or they may be set with J oz. gelatine 
dissolved and stirred into the fruit. 



AMBER JELLIES. No. 248. 



Juice of 2 lemons. 
Rind of 1 lemon. 
3 cloves. 
I oz. gelatine. 



2 eggs. 

f pint water. 
^ pint sherry. 

3 oz. loaf sugar. 



Peel the lemon very thin ; put it into a stewpan with 
the eggs whisked and all the other ingredients ; stir over 
a very slow fire for 10 minutes ; strain into a basin, stir 
until nearly cold and pour into a wetted mould ; when 
set, dip into hot w^ater and turn out immediately. 



APPLE FRITTERS. . No. 249. 



1 lb. apples. 

1 gill tepid water. 



4 oz. flour. 

1 teaspoon salad oil. 

Sugar. 



Peel the apples and slice them rather thinly ; with a 
round cutter stamp out the core ; put the flour into a 
basin and stir into it the oil, yolk of the egg and water ; 
stir smooth and beat the batter for 5 minutes ; whisk the 
white of the egg to a stiff froth with a pinch of salt and 
mix lightly in ; pass the apple rings through the batter, 
take them out on a skew^er and drop them carefully into 
smoking hot fat ; fry to a light golden colour ; drain them 
on paper and dust well with castor sugar. 

N.B. — The same batter will do for all fruit fritters. 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. 123 

BAKEWELL TART. No. 250. 



J lb. short crust (No. 240). 

2 oz. butter. 

1 egg. 

1 tablespoon milk. 



IJ oz. ground rice. 

2 oz. castor sugar. 

^ teaspoon baking powder. 

2 tablespoons strawberry jam. 



Grease a pudding plate and line it with the pastry 
rolled out an eighth of an inch thick ; prick the middle of 
the pastry well all over and spread on the jam ; beat the 
butter and sugar to a smooth cream with a wooden 
spoon, w^hisk the egg and stir it in ; lastly the gi'ound rice 
and baking pow^der ; cover the jam thickly with this 
mixture ; bake in a quick oven half an hour ; dust w^ith 
sugar and slip on to a sieve to cool. 



BANBURY CAKES. 

^ lb. rough puff pastry. 

2 oz. sultanas. 

2 oz. candied peel. 

Rind and juice of 1 lemon. 

2 oz. butter. 



No. 251. 



2 oz. castor sugar. 

1 teaspoon spice. 

2 oz. raisins. 

^ wineglass brandy. 



EoU the pastry out a quarter inch thick ; cut out some 
oval shapes with a plain cutter ; stone and chop the 
raisins ; clean currants and sultanas ; slice the peel small 
and thin (the spice is to be equal quantities of nutmeg, 
cinnamon and ground ginger) ; dissolve the butter ; take 
off the fire and stir into it all the ingredients ; place 
a dessertspoon of the mixture in the centre of each 
shape of pastry; wet the edges and seal them over the 
fruit ; turn the cakes over and slightly flatten them w4th 
a rolling-pin ; place on a greased baking-tin and bake 20 
to 30 minutes in a quick oven ; brush over the top of 



124 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

each with beaten white of egg and dust with sugar ; set 
this in the oven for 5 minutes. Put on a sieve until 
cold. 

BROWN BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. No. 252. 



3 oz, brown bread. 

Marmalade. 

A little grated nutmeg. 



J pint milk. 

2 eggs. 

2 oz. sugar. 



Slice the bread quite thin and spread it with butter* 
then rather thickly with marmalade ; cut into small 
oblong pieces and place lightly in a greased pie dish ; 
whisk the eggs to a light froth and mix with the sugar 
and milk ; pour over the bread , sprinkle the nutmeg 
on top, stand by for 10 minutes to soak, then bake in a 
moderate oven for 20 to 30 minutes ; dust with sugar. 

BLANC-MANGE. No. 253. 



1 pint milk. 

f oz. gelatine. 

2 strips lemon. 



IJ oz. castoT sugar. 
Cochineal. 
Pinch of salt. 



Put the milk, flavouring and sugar on the fire and stir 
until it is hot ; add the gelatine and continue stirring 
over a gentle heat until it is quite dissolved; strain 
into two basins, colour one half with cochineal to 
a pale pink ; stir the milk until nearly cold ; pour into 
small wetted moulds ; when set, plunge into hot water 
and turn out quickly. 

BOILED CUSTARD (for glasses). No. 254. 

f pint milk. 1 strip lemon rind. 

1 whole egg. 1^ oz. castor sugar, 

2 yolks. 

Whisk the eggs in a basin until very light ; boil the 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. 125 

milk and whisk it a little at a time to the eggs, taking 
care not to curdle them ; strain into a jug ; add the 
lemon ; stand the jug in a pan of simmering water and 
stir until the custard turns sufficiently thick to coat 
the spoon ; take out of the water, add the sugar, take 
out the lemon and stir until the custard is cold to 
prevent a scum forming on the top ; pour into custard 
glasses and put two gi'ates of nutmeg on top of each. 



BLAKEMQRE PUDDING. No. 255. 

Cornflour pastry (No. 236). 2 tablespoons jam. 

Juice and rind of 1 lemon. One Id. spongecake. 

Divide the pastry ; roll it out on a floured board and 
line a greased pudding plate with one half ; crumble the 
spongecake ; grate the lemon and squeeze the juice ; mix 
these together with the jam ; prick the middle of the 
pastry well over and spread on the mixture ; cover with 
the other half of pastry rolled out ; decorate the edges 
with a pastry jagger and bake for 20 to 30 minutes ; 
dust with sugar. 

COLD SAGO PUDDING. * No. 266. 



1 pint milk. 

2 eggs. 

^ teaspoon essence of vanilla. 



2 oz. small sago. 
2 tablespoons jam. 
2 oz. castor, sugar. 



Wash the sago and boil it gently in the milk, stirring 
until it is quite cooked and the milk is thick ; take off the 
fire ; add the vanilla, sugar and yolks of the eggs ; put 
the jam at the bottom of a sweet dish ; pour over the 
sago ; put a pinch of salt with the whites, also one drop of 



126 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

cochineal and ^Yhisk to a stiff froth ; mix into them 
lightly 2 oz. castor sugar ; pile on the top of the sago 
and set in a cool oven until the meringue is set, but it is 
not to be coloured. 



COMPOTE OF ORANGES AND COCOANUT. No. 257. 

6 juicy oranges. ; 1 gill water. 

2 oz. cocoanut. I 2 oz. loaf sugar. 

Take the thin rind of one orange, put it into an enamel 
pan with the water and sugar ; boil gently to a nice 
thick syrup about 10 minutes, skimming it to keep it 
clear ; strain and allow to go cold ; peel all the oranges 
and take away every particle of the bitter, white pith ; 
slice them a quarter of an inch thick and take out the pips 
with a teaspoon ; arrange the slices in a glass dish with 
layers of cocoanut in between ; pour the syrup over and 
stand by an hour or so before serving. Tangerine oranges 
are nice for this dish. . 

COCOANUT PUDDING. No. 258. 



6 oz. short crust (No. 240). 

J pint milk. 

1 oz. cake crumbs. 

3 oz. cocoanut. 



2 oz. sugar. 
1^ oz. butter. 
2 eggs. 



Grease a pie dish ; roll out the pastry thin ; cut it into 
strips and line round the sides half-way down, pressing 
the pastry a little over the edges to allow for shrinking 
in the cooking ; cut out some small shapes of pastry 
and arrange them prettily round the edge, first slightly 
wetting the pastry to make them stick ; stew the cocoa- 
nut in the milk slowly by the side of the fire until it is 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. 127 

quite tender, stirring it occasionally; crearn the butter 
and sugar ; stir in the yolks of the eggs, the cake crumbs 
and cocoanut, lastly add the whites of eggs whisked to a 
stiff froth ; pour into the pie dish and bake in a moderate 
oven half an hour ; dust with sugar. Serve hot or cold. 

CUSTARD CORNETS. No. 259. 



^ lb. flaky pastry (No. 237). 

Jam. 

1 oz. castor sugar. 

^ teaspoon vanilla essence. 



J pint milk. 

1 dessertspoon cornflour. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. 

Cherries. 



Roll the pastry into a long thin piece and cut into 
strips about 1^ inches wide ; wet down the right hand 
side of the strip with water or beaten egg ; take 6 or 8 
small cornet moulds, grease them on the outside, place 
them on the strips of pastry slightly slanted; roll the 
mould in the pastry until it is quite covered, trim off to 
the shape at the top ; place the cornets on a greased tin 
and bake 15 minutes ; slip out the moulds and allow the 
pastry to cool, when place a little jam at the bottom of 
each one; stir the cornflour smooth in a basin with 
a little of the milk ; boil the rest and pour it on, stirring ; 
boil for 2 or 3 minutes ; take off the fire and add the yolks, 
sugar and vanilla ; fill the moulds with this custard when 
it is cold ; place half a cherry on top and dust with sugar. 

COBURG PUDDING. No. 260. 



6 oz. short crust (No. 240). 
1 lb. apples. 

1 strip lemon rind. 

2 oz. loaf sugar. 



2 eggs. 

^ pint milk. 

1 oz. castor sugar. 

Vanilla essence. 



1 tablespoon apricot jam. 1 dessertspoon cornflour. 

Line and decorate a pie dish (No. 258) ; peel, core and 



128 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

quarter the apples ; put them on to stew gently with the 
lemon, loaf sugar and a very little water ; cook to a thick 
marmalade without stirring ; take out the lemon and put 
the apples at the bottom of the pie dish, over which 
spread the jam ; boil the milk ; stir the cornflour to 
a smooth cream with a little cold milk ; pour on the 
milk and boil for 2 or 3 minutes ; take off the fire and 
beat in the sugar, vanilla and yolks of the eggs ; pour over 
the jam ; whisk the whites with a pinch of salt to a stiff 
froth ; mix lightly with 2 oz. castor sugar ; pile on top of 
the pudding ; bake gently for 10 or 15 minutes. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. No. 261. 



3 oz. grated chocolate. 

1 pint milk. 

2 yolks of eggs. 
Vanilla essence. 



I oz. gelatine. 

J oz. castor sugar. 

J gill cream. 



Grate the chocolate and pour the boihng milk on to it ; 
put into a stewpan and cook a few minutes ; cool a little 
and stir in the yolks and cream mixed together, sugar 
and a few drops of vanilla ; melt the gelatine in a half gill of 
water and stir into the cream ; pour into a wetted mould 
and set ; turn out, first just dipping the mould in hot 
water; sprinkle with a little cocoanut or chopped pis- 
tachio nut. 

CHOCOLATE SPONGE. No. 262. 



4 oz. grated chocolate. 
2 sheets gelatine. 
A few drops vanilla. 



1 gill water. 
1^ oz. castor sugar. 
Whites of 3 eggs. 



Put the chocolate, sugar, water and gelatine into 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. 129 

a stewpan and dissolve very slov^ly for about 5 or 6 
minutes, stirring all the time ; whisk the whites to a very 
stiff froth ; take the chocolate off the fire and mix them 
together very Hghtly ; pile up in a glass dish ; sprinkle 
with a little chopped pistachio nut and decorate with 
one or two crystalUsed cherries. 



COCOA CREAM. No. 263. 



1 oz. Cadbury's cocoa. 
1 oz. sugar. 

J teaspoon vanilla essence. 
Two eggs. 



1 pint milk. 
1 tablespoon cornflour. 
1^ oz. almonds. 



Put the cocoa, sugar and cornflour into a mixing basin 
and stir to a smooth cream with a little of the cold milk ; 
boil the rest and pour on to the cocoa ; stir well and boil 
for 5 minutes to make the cream very shiny ; take off the 
fire and stir in the yolks of the eggs and vanilla ; pour 
this into a sweet dish ; whisk the whites stiff with a pinch 
of salt and mix with 2 oz. castor sugar ; pile on the top 
in a pyramidal form, grate over the top a little chocolate ; 
blanch and shred the almonds and sprinkle them on the 
cocoa. 

N.B. — If preferred the meringue may be baked crisp 
first in a very cool oven. 

COCOA MOULD . No. 264. 

1 pint milk. 2 dessertspoons Cadbury's 

2 dessertspoons cornflour. cocoa. 
1 tablespoon sugar. ' 

Mix together the cocoa, cornflour and sugar ; stir them 

9 



I30 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

to a smooth cream with a little of the milk ; boil the 
rest and pour on, stirring well to prevent the mixtm-e 
becoming lumpy ; boil well for 4 or 5 minutes and pour 
into a wetted mould ; when set, turn out and serve with 
custard sauce flavoured with vanilla (No. 114). 

COFFEE SHAPE. No. 265. 

f pint milk. | 1 tablespoon cornflour. 

^ pint strong cofiee. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

Stir the cornflour smooth with a little cold milk ; boil 
the rest and the coffee ; pour on to the cornflour ; stir well 
and return to the pan ; boil 3 or 4 minutes ; take off the 
fire and add the sugar ; pour into a wetted mould and set. 

COFFEE PUDDING. No. 266. 



1^ gills milk. 

^ gill strong coffee. 

2 eggs. 



3 penny spongecakes. 
1 oz. castor sugar. 
Jam sauce. 



Butter a plain mould well ; sUce the spongecakes and 
lay them in ; beat the eggs lightly ; mix them with the 
cold milk and coffee; add the sugar and pour over the 
cakes ; cover with a greased paper and steam very gently 
for 1| hours ; turn out and when cold coat over with 
cold apricot jam sauce (No. 128). 

CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS. No. 267 



Chocolate icing (No. 328). 
1 gill cream or custard. 



Choux pastry (No. 286). 
^ oz. castor sugar. 
A few drops vanilla. 

Put the pastry on a well-floured board ; roll it out with 
the palms of the hands lightly into a long roll about 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. 



131 



1 inch thick ; cut into lengths 4 inches long ; brush over 
with beaten egg and place on a baking sheet ; bake in a 
good oven at first, then in a moderate heat for 40 minutes ; 
put on a sieve to cool, when make a small cut on the 
underneath side of the rolls and take out any soft part 
from the centre ; whip the cream, sweeten and flavour 
it; fill the eclairs and ice them over. 

CANARY PUDDING. No. 268. 

3 oz. butter. ( 2 eggs. 

3 oz. sugar. 4 oz. flour. 

A few drops vanilla. J teaspoon baking powder. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a light cream ; stir in the 
eggs one at a time and then mix the flour in lightly ; 
add the vanilla and baking powder ; pour into a well- 
greased mould, cover with greased paper and steam 
slowly for 1 hour ; turn out, dust with sugar and pour 
jam sauce (No. 128) round, or the pudding may be baked 
for 40 minutes. 

CHERRY PUDDING. No. 269. 



J pint milk. 
1^ oz. sugar. 
Vanilla essence. 

1 gill water. 

Juice of half a lemon. 

2 oz. loaf sugar. 



1 penny spongecake. 
1 whole egg. 

1 yolk. 

2 oz. crystallised cherries. 
Cochineal. 

J oz. gelatine. 



Cut the cake and cherries into quarters ; whisk the eggs 
in a basin, boil, and whisk the milk on to them ; put the 
custard into a jug and stir it in hot water until it thickens ; 
add the sugar, vanilla and a drop or two of cochineal to 



132 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

make it cherry colour, and put into it half the cherries 
and the cake ; dissolve the gelatine in half a gill of 
water and stir into the custard ; pour into a wetted mould 
or into several small ones ; when set turn out, just 
immersing the mould first in hot water to loosen the 
gelatine, and pour over them the cherry sauce. 

For the Sauce. — Put the lemon juice, loaf sugar and 
water into a pan and boil it to a syrup 10 minutes ; take 
off the fire and drop in the other half of the cherries ; 
allow to go cold. 

CHANTILLY PUDDING. No. 270. 



4 eggs. 

4 oz. castor sugar. 

Cocoanut. 

^ pint milk. 

Vanilla essence. 



2 oz. flour. 

I teaspoon baking powder. 

Jam. 

1 dessertspoon cornflour. 

1 stick angelica. 



Grease and flour a plain oval border mould ; take two 
of the eggs and whisk them with 2 oz. of the sugar until 
thick and nearly white ; stir in the flour and baking 
powder lightly ; pour into the mould and bake in a mode- 
rate oven about 10 minutes ; turn out and cool ; spread all 
over the outside with jam and sprinkle with cocoanut ; 
place on a glass dish and put a good tablespoon of jam 
at the bottom ; mix the cornflour smooth with a little of 
the milk, boil the remainder and pour on ; stir well and 
boil for 2 or 3 minutes ; take off the fire and stir in the 
yolks only of the other two eggs ; add sugar and flavour 
with vanilla ; pour this on top of the jam, whisk the two 
whites to a stiff froth, mix lightly with 2 oz. castor sugar 
and pile roughly on top of the custard ; pass a narrow 
stick of angelica through warm water to make it flexible 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS Ah^D SWEETS. 



133 



and place it over the white of egg to form a basket handle ; 
decorate with a few cherries and serve cold. 

N.B. — Cream may be substituted for the whites. 



No. 271. 



^ pint milk. 

J pint green gooseberries. 

1 oz. sugar. 



CAMBRIDGE PUDDING. 

4 oz. flour. 

2 eggs. 

A little grated nutmeg. 

A good pinch of salt. 

Well grease a pie dish ; put in the gooseberries and 
shake the sugar over them ; put the flour and salt in 
a basin ; drop the eggs into it and stir in the milk by 
degrees ; beat for 5 or 6 minutes ; pour over the goose- 
berries, dust the nutmeg on top and bake for 40 minutes ; 
turn out and well dust with sugar. 



ECCLES CAKES. 

I lb. flaky pastry (No. 237). 

1 oz. butter or lard. 

2 oz. currants. 



No. 272. 



IJ oz. candied peel. 
2 oz. sugar. 
J teaspoon nutmeg. 



Eoll the pastry out an eighth of an inch thick and cut 
into rounds with a cutter ; chop the candied peel ; wash 
and dry the currants ; melt the butter ; put in the fruit, 
sugar and nutmeg ; mix well together ; place a heap on 
the rounds of pastry; wet the edges and firm them 
together over the top of the fruit ; turn the cakes over ; 
flatten them w4th a rolling-pin without allowing the fruit 
to break through ; put on greased tins and bake 15 to 20 
minutes ; dust well with sugar and serve cold. 



134 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

FRIED CREAMS. No. 273. 

^ pint milk. 1| oz. flour. 

1 oz. castor sugar. . 1^ oz. butter. 
Yolk of 1 egg. J teaspoon vanilla. 

Cake crumbs. ! 1 whole egg. 

Dissolve the butter, stir in the flour, cook it a minute 
without browning ; add the milk and sugar ; boil to a thick 
sauce, beat quite smooth ; take off the fire ; stir in the 
yolk of the egg and vanilla ; turn out on a plate ; when 
quite cold take up in good teaspoons, dip into the egg 
well beaten and then in fine cake crumbs ; fry to a light 
golden colour in hot fat ; drain and dish piled high ; dust 
with sugar and serve with jam sauce (No. 128). 

FIG AND APPLE PUDDING. No. 274. 

J lb. figs. : 3 oz. suet. 

I lb. apples. 2 eggs. 

4 oz. sugar. 1 oz. flour. 

Salt and nutmeg. 6 oz. breadcrumbs. 

^ gill milk. 

After making the breadcrumbs use them to chop the 
suet and figs very fine, first shredding them ; peel, core 
and chop the apples ; beat the eggs and mix all the 
ingredients together ; pour into a well-greased basin ; 
boil for 3 hours, covering the basin with a scalded and 
floured cloth. Serve with any sweet sauce. 

FRUIT SALAD. No. 275. 



Equal quantities of any kind 6 pistachio kernels. 

of fruit. I 1 lb, loaf sugar. 

1 oz. almonds. ! 1 pint water. 

Any kind of fruit in season can be used (the larger 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. 135 

variety the better) — grapes, bananas, apricots, cherries, 
currants, oranges, etc. The fruits should be prepared by 
being cut into convenient pieces (that is, the larger sorts 
— bananas, apricots, etc.), peeled and stones taken out ; 
blanch and shred the almonds and pistachios. 

Boil the sugar and water to a nice thick syrup about 
20 minutes until it will drop thick from the spoon and 
skim it if necessary, but do not stir it or it will look 
cloudy. Let it go cold, and then a wineglass of brandy 
or liqueur will much improve it. Pour over the fruits in a 
glass dish and sprinkle with the nuts. 



GERMAN PUDDING. No. 276. 

1 lb. ripe fruit. I ^ lb. sago. 

1 pint water. I 4 oz. lump sugar. 

Soak the sago in cold water for 2 hours ; stew 
the fruit in the water with the sugar until tender ; 
sieve it through a hair sieve ; return it to the stewpan 
with the sago ; stir over the fire until the sago is quite 
clear ; pour into a mould ; when cold and set, turn out 
and serve with cream or custard. 



GINGER PUDDING. No. 277. 



J pint milk. 
1 whole egg. 

1 yolk of egg. 

2 oz. loaf sugar. 

1 penny spongecake. 

2 oz. castor sugar. 



2 oz. crystallised ginger. 
^ oz. gelatine. 
1 gill water. 

A few drops of caramel (No. 
418). 



Beat the eggs to a light froth and whisk the milk into 
them boiling ; put into a jug and stir in simmering 



136 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

water until thick ; take off the fire and add the sugar, 
half the ginger cut in small dice, also the cake cut small ; 
dissolve the gelatine in a very little warm water and mix 
into the custard ; pour into a mould and set ; boil the 
lump sugar and gill of water to a syrup for about 10 
minutes, skimming ; take off the fire ; drop in the rest 
of the ginger cut in dice and a few drops of caramel 
to make the syrup ginger colour ; allow to go cold ; turn 
out the mould and pour the sauce over. 

GOLDEN PUDDING. No. 278. 



6 oz. breadcrumbs. I 2 tablespoons marmalade. 

2 oz. suet. 1 oz. candied peel. 

1 egg. I A pinch of salt. 

Skin, shred and chop the suet with the breadcrumbs ; 
beat the egg and mix all the ingredients together ; pour 
into a greased mould ; cover with a greased paper 
and steam 1 hour. For the sauce boil together 1 oz. 
lump sugar, ^ gill water and one tablespoon of marmalade ; 
pour round the pudding. 

GINGER SPONGE. No. 279. 



J lb. flour. 


1 teaspoon ground ginger. 


3 oz. suet. 


^ teaspoon carbonate of soda. 


legg. 


4 oz. golden syrup. 


1 gill milk. 





Chop the suet very fine with the flour ; beat the egg 
and mix all the ingredients well together ; pour into a 
well-greased mould ; cover with a greased paper ; steam 
2^ hours; turn out and pour round a sauce of equal 
quantities of warm syrup and lemon juice. 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. 137 

JAM FRITTERS. No. 280. 



4 oz. flour. 
1 whole egg. 
1 yolk. 



^ pint water. 
1 oz. butter. 
A pinch of salt. 



Boil the water and butter ; take off the fire ; stk in the 
flour all at once and beat well ; cook over a slow^ fire, 
stirring all the time ; then off the fire ; beat in the eggs 
one at a time. Have the deep, frying fat smoking hot, 
but not too fierce ; drop in the batter in half dessertspoon- 
fuls, 8 or 10 at a time ; move them about with the fish-slice 
and fry them a light brown for 4 minutes ; drain ; dust 
with sugar ; take a small lid off each with a pair of hot 
scissors and place in each a teaspoon of warm jam. 
Serve piled up on a dish paper. 

JUNKET. No. 281. 



1 quart new milk. j Junket powder. 

1 oz. castor sugar. | Flavouring. 

Heat the milk to 90° F. ; dissolve the sugar in it ; 
pour into a glass bowl ; stir in the junket powder (the 
quantity will be given on the bottle; "Wilson's Junket 
Powder " is a very good curd-producer) ; allow the junket 
to stand quite still until set in the kitchen, then dust with 
nutmeg and put away in a cool place. 

LEMON CHEESE CAKES. No. 282. 

^ lb. rough puff pastry. 2 oz. butter. 

1 egg. I 2 oz, castor sugar. 
Rind of 1 lemon. 2 penny spongecakes. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. I 

Roll out the pastry an eighth of an inch thick ; stamp into 



138 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 



rounds with a fluted cutter and line one dozen patty pans ; 
cream the butter and sugar with a wooden spoon ; beat 
in the egg, then the rind and juice of the lemon, with the 
cakes passed through a wire sieve ; place a good tea- 
spoon of the mixture in the pastry ; bake for 20 to 30 
minutes ; dust them with sugar. 



LEMON PUDDING. 

6 oz. short crust (No. 240). 
2 oz. ground rice. 
J pint water. 



No. 283. 



1 lemon. 

2 oz. castor sugar. 
2 eggs. 



Line and decorate a pie dish with the pastry (No. 258) ; 
boil the rice and water to a thick paste over a slow fire, 
stirring all the time ; take off the fire, stir in the sugar, 
the lemon rind grated, juice strained and the yolks of 
the eggs ; pour into the dish and bake 20 to 30 minutes 
in a moderate oven ; whisk the whites to a stiff froth, 
mix them lightly with 2 oz. of castor sugar and pile 
on top of the pudding ; bake again slowly for 10 minutes 
to set the meringue. 



LEMON JELLIES. 

IJ pints water. 

J pint lemon juice. 

IJ oz. gelatine. 

2 cloves. 

Rinds of 2 lemons. 



No. 284. 



2 whites of eggs. 
The shells. 
5 oz. loaf sugar. 
^ inch cinnamon. 



Use a very clean pan for this jelly or it will be made 
cloudy directly ; peel the lemons very thin ; strain the 
juice ; whisk the eggs ; wash and crush the shells ; put 
all the ingredients into the saucepan ; whisk over a brisk 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. 139 

fire until boiling ; take out the whisk and give the jelly 
one boil up ; stand it by the side of the fire to settle with 
the lid partly on about 10 minutes ; strain through a 
linen cloth scalded and tied over the legs of a chair 
turned upside down ; if not quite clear with one straining 
pour the jelly carefully through the cloth again ; pour 
into wetted moulds and set ; plunge the moulds into 
hot water before turning out the jelly. 

LEMON SPONGE. No. 285. 



^ oz, gelatine. 
Juice of 2 lemons. 
Rind of 1 lemon. 



J pint water. 

1^ oz. lump sugar. 

2 whites of eggs. 



Take the rind thinly off one lemon, put it into a 
saucepan with the sugar, water and gelatine ; stir over a 
slow fire until nicely flavoured and the gelatine dissolved ; 
strain into a basin ; add the lemon juice strained and the 
whites of the eggs ; whisk all together until setting, when 
pour into a mould or pile up on a glass dish. Half may 
be coloured pink if preferred. 

MERINGUES. No. 286. 



2 whites of eggs. 
A pinch of salt. 
6 oz. castor sugar. 



^ pint cream. 
Vanilla essence. 



Put the whites into a basin with a good pinch of salt ; 
whisk slowly at first, then quicker until they are very 
stiff; sift the sugar, put it to the eggs and stir it in 
quickly and lightly ; put the mixture in a forcing bag 
without a forcer at the end and force small round 
meringues on to a board well oiled and lined with oiled 



I40 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

paper; dust them well with sugar and bake them in a 
slow oven for 40 minutes, turning them round frequently 
(they must scarcely turn colour) ; when quite set take 
them carefully off the paper and scoop out the soft part 
with a teaspoon ; put them on a clean dry paper upside 
down and into a cool oven again until perfectly dry ; 
when cold fill them with the cream whipped, fiavom-ed 
and sweetened. Serve at once, as they soon become soft 
after the cream is put in. 

ORANGE JELLY. No. 287. 

1 pint orange juice. 6 oz. loaf sugar. 
J pint water. I IJ oz. gelatine. 

Take off the thin rind of two oranges; put it into a 
saucepan with the gelatine and sugar ; stir over a slow 
fire until both are dissolved ; strain into a basin ; squeeze 
the oranges and strain to the gelatine, etc. ; pour into 
wetted moulds and set. 

PANCAKES. No. 288. 

5 oz. flour. I I pint milk. 

2 eggs. I J teaspoon salt. 

Put the flour and salt into a basin ; drop the eggs into 
the middle of it, and with half the milk stir out all the 
lumps and beat the batter for 5 minutes ; then stir in the 
remaining milk by degrees; pour into a jug. Make 1 oz. 
of lard hot in a saucepan ; pour three drops of it into a 
small frying-pan and make it smoking hot ; pour in 
enough batter to thinly cover the pan, fry to a light 
brown and crisp, toss over and fry on the other side ; 
turn on to sugared paper to drain ; dust with sugar and 
roll up ; fry them all in this way and serve very hot. 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. 141 

PRUNE MOULD. No. 289. 



1 lb. prunes. 1 pint water. 

Rind of 1 lemon. J gill sherrj-, 

3 oz. loaf sugar. f oz. gelatine. 

Wash the prunes ; stew them very slowly with the 
sugar, sherry and lemon rind for IJ to 2 hours ; pass 
them through a wire sieve ; dissolve the gelatine in a very 
little water ; stir to the prunes and pour into a wetted 
mould ; when set, immerse in hot water, turn out and 
decorate with a few cherries cut in halves. 

PINE APPLE SWEET. No. 290. 

Half a tinned pine-apple. 1^ oz. castor sugar. 

J pint milk. 1 dessertspoon cornflour. 

2 



Cut the pine-apple into quarter-inch slices and lay them 
in a pie dish ; dust well with sugar ; stir the cornflour 
smooth with a little milk ; boil the rest and pour on ; boil 
for 2 or 3 minutes ; take off the iire, add the sugar and 
yolks of eggs ; pour this over the pine-apple ; whisk the 
whites stiffly ; add 2 oz. castor sugar ; pile on top of the 
custard and bake crisp for 15 minutes ; decorate with 
pieces of angelica. 

QUEEN PUDDING. No. 291. 



4 oz. breadcrumbs. 
2 oz. castor sugar. 
J teaspoon vanilla. 



2 tablespoons jam. 

2 eggs. 

I pint milk. 



Boil the milk and pour it on to the crumbs ; when well 
soaked stir in the sugar, yolks of the eggs and vanilla ; 
pour into a greased pie dish and bake 15 minutes ; spread 



142 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

the jam over, whisk the whites to a stiff froth, niix with 
2 oz. castor sugar ; pile on the top in a rough heap ; bake 
again slowly for ten minutes ; decorate with cherries. 

BICE MERINGUE. No. 292. 



1 oz. butter. 
1 pint milk. 
3 eggs. 
Apricot jam. 



3 oz. ground rice. 
2 oz. sugar. 

1 inch stick cinnamon. 
Pinch of salt. 



Boil the rice, butter and milk with the spice to a thick 
cream ; take out the cinnamon, stir in the sugar and yolks 
of egg ; when cool enough pour into a pie dish ; spread 
the jam over ; whisk the whites stiffly ; mix with 2 oz. 
castor sugar ; set them in a cool oven, but do not brown, 
for 10 minutes ; sprinkle with chopped pistachio nuts. 

RHUBARB FOOL. No. 293. 



5 sticks young rhubarb. 
2 strips lemon rind. 
4 oz. loaf sugar. 



J pint cream or 
J pint custard, 
1 gill water. 



Cut the rhubarb into 5-inch lengths ; put it into a 
stewpan with the lemon, water and loaf sugar ; stew 
gently until quite tender ; pass through a hair sieve ; 
whip the cream and mix with the rhubarb when it is 
cold; fill custard glasses three parts full and serve. 

RASPBERRY PUDDING. No. 294. 



7 oz. breadcrumbs. 3 oz. castor sugar. 

3 oz. butter. 2 eggs. 

Vanilla. I Raspberry jam. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; whisk the eggs 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. 143 

and stir them in alternately with the breadcrumbs; add 
half teaspoon of vanilla ; grease a plain round tin, line it 
with brown breadcrumbs, put in a layer of the mixture, 
then a thin layer of jam, not allowing it to run too near 
the sides of the tin, and so on until the tin is full, finish- 
ing off with a layer of the mixture ; cover with a greased 
paper and bake 40 minutes in a moderate oven ; turn out 
and dust with sugar ; pour custard sauce round. 

RED CURRANT AND RASPBERRY PUDDING. No. 295. 



^ lb. red currants. I 4 oz. sugar. 

J lb. raspberries. I 4 oz. breadcrumbs. 

Cut the bread into thin slices and line a small basin 
round with it ; stew the fruit with the sugar until tender ; 
allow it to get cold ; fill up the basin with layers of the 
fruit and thin slices of bread ; stand by to soak and set 
about 4 hours ; turn out and serve vdth cream. 

RICE CHEESE CAKES. No. 296. 



I lb. short crust (No. 24). 4 oz. currants. 



3 oz. butter. 

3 dessertspoons ground rice. 

A little nutmeg. 



4 oz. Demarara sugar. 
1 oz. candied peel. 
Yolks of 2 eggs. 



Roll the pastry out and line some small greased patty 
pans with it ; clean the currants ; cut the peel small and 
thin ; melt the butter ; put in all the ingredients and mix 
well ; bake for 15 to 20 minutes ; dust with sugar. 

SAVOY PUDDING. No. 297. 

3 savoy biscuits. 3 oz. castor sugar. 

1 gill milk. 2 oz. butter. 

1 wineglass sherry. Rind of 1 orange. 
3 eggs. 

Cream the butter and sugar ; mix the yolks and milk 



144 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

and stir in alternately with the biscuits crumbed, lastly 
the sherry and grated rind of the orange ; bake 20 
minutes in a greased pie dish ; whisk the whites, mix 
them with 2 oz. castor sugar, pile on top of the pudding 
and bake 10 minutes in a cool oven ; decorate with spikes 
of angelica. 

STEWED FIGS. No. 298. 



1 lb. figs. 

2 strips lemon rind. 
4 oz. loaf sugar. 



J pint water. 
^ gill sherry. 



Boil the water, sugar, lemon and sherry gently for 10 
minutes ; put in the figs and simmer for 1 hour ; arrange 
in a circle on a dish and pour the syrup over when cold. 
Serve whipped cream in the centre. 

SULTANA PUDDING. No. 299. 



6 oz. breadcrumbs. 

2 oz. suet. 

3 eggs. 



4 oz, sultanas. 

2 oz. sugar. 

3 gills milk. 



Chop the suet fine ; beat the eggs and milk and mix 
all the ingredients together ; bake in a Yorkshire tin well 
greased for 1 hour ; cut into squares and dust with sugar ; 
serve with custard sauce (No. 114). 

SEMOLINA PUDDING. No. 300. 

2 oz. coarse semolina. ; 2 eggs. 

1 pint milk. Vanilla or lemon. 

2 oz. sugar. I 

Boil the milk ; shake in the semolina and stir over a 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. 145 

slow fire until soft and thick ; take off the fire ; stir in the 
sugar, flavouring and yolks of eggs ; whisk the whites ; 
stir in Hghtly ; bake in a greased pie dish 20 minutes. 

SNOWDON PUDDING. No. 301. 



2 oz. raisins. 

5 oz. breadcrumbs. 

2 oz. suet. 

^ gill milk. 



1 oz. ground rice. 

2 tablespoons marmalade. 
2 eggs. 

2 oz. sugar. 



Cut the raisins open like a book ; press the cut sides on 
to a greased tin forming some pretty design ; chop the 
suet fine with the breadcrumbs ; beat the eggs and mix all 
the ingredients well together ; pour carefully into the pre- 
pared tin, cover with a greased paper and steam 2 hours. 
Serve with hot marmalade poured round. 

STEAMED BATTER. No. 302. 



4 oz, flour, . 
A pinch of salt. 
Jam sauce (No. 128). 



2 eggs. 

1^ gills milk. 



Put the flour into a basin with the salt ; stir in the eggs 
beaten and the milk ; beat for 5 or 6 minutes ; stand by 
for an hour ; pour into a greased basin, leaving a quarter 
of an inch in the basin for rising ; cover with a greased 
paper and steam very slowly for 1 hour ; turn out care- 
fully and pour round jam sauce. 

TAMWORTH PUDDING, No. 303. 

J lb. flaky pastry (No. 237). | 1 small jar lemon curd. 

Make the pastry with 4 oz. of lard instead of 3 oz., as 
10 



146 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 



it should be rather rich for this pudding ; roll it out very 
thin ; place a layer of it at the bottom of a Yorkshire tin 
and spread thinly with the curd, and so on, using up all 
the pastry ; bake in a good oven for quite 1 J hours or a 
little longer ; cut into squares and dust with sugar. Serve 
hot. 



VERMICELLI PUDDING. 



No. 304. 



1 breakfastcup vermicelli. 

2 tablespoons marmalade. 
4 oz. stoned raisins. 

2 eggs. 


2 oz. sugar. 
i pint milk. 
Salt. 



Boil the milk and pour it over the vermicelli ; let it 
remain soaking for 10 minutes ; beat the eggs and stir 
all the ingredients in ; pour into a well-greased pie dish 
and bake 40 minutes or steam 1^ hours. 



VICTORIA PUDDING. 

^ a sixpenny spongecake. 
1 gill milk. 

1 gill cream. 

^ pint custard (No. 114). 

2 oz. sugar. 



No. 305. 



2 oz. ground almonds. 
2 eggs. 
Apricot jam. 
6 sweet almonds. 



Boil the milk and cream ; cut the cake into slices ; put 
them in a basin, pour over the boiling milk, cover the 
basin and soak the cake for 10 minutes ; beat in the 
almonds, eggs, sugar and a pinch of cinnamon ; pour into 
a plain oval mould, well greased, and steam very slowly ; 
turn out and when cold spread the jam rather thick on 
the top ; pour the custard all over and stick it with 
shredded almonds. 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. 147 

WAFER PUDDINGS. No. 306. 



1^ oz. butter. 
2 oz. flour. 
2 eggs. 



^ pint milk. 
Apricot jam. 



Put the flour in a mixing basin with a pinch of salt ; 
make a hole in the middle of it ; melt the butter and 
pour it in ; beat the eggs very frothy, add the milk to 
them and stir gradually to the flour; when half is in 
beat the mixture for 5 minutes, then stir in the rest ; 
bake in thoroughly greased large patty pans or saucers 
in a quick oven for 20 to 30 minutes ; turn out on sugared 
paper ; put a teaspoon of warm jam on one side and fold 
over. Serve on a doyley dusted with sugar. Serve hot. 

WELSH CHEESE CAKES. No. 307. 



6 oz. short crust (No. 240). 2 oz. butter. 

2 eggs. 2 oz. castor sugar. 

^ teaspoon vanilla. 2 oz. flour. 

J teaspoon baking powder. Jam. 

Line 8 or 10 greased patty pans with the pastry rolled 
out rather thm ; place half a teaspoon of jam at the 
bottom of each, cream, the butter and sugar ; beat in the 
eggs, lastly the flour, vanilla and baking powder ; cover 
the jam over with a teaspoon of this mixture ; bake 20 
to 30 minutes ; dust with sugar. 



148 



BREAD, CAKES AND BISCUITS. 



APPLE CAKE. 



No. 308. 



f lb. flour. 
^ oz. yeast. 
1^ gills milk. 
A little nutmeg. 
1 oz. butter. 



legg. 

2 oz. sugar. 

1 lb. apples. 

2 oz. currants. 



Work the sugar and yeast with a wooden spoon until it 
forms a syrup ; dissolve the butter, add the milk and 
make it lukewarm ; beat the egg and add it to the milk ; 
stu- this to the yeast; put the flour and sugar into a 
mixing basin with a good pinch of salt ; stir the yeast, 
etc., to it and beat to a smooth dough; put in a warm 
place to rise for 1^ hours covered with a cloth ; work it 
up smooth on a floured board and roll it out into a round 
about 1 inch thick ; place on a well-greased baking sheet ; 
peel, core and quarter the apples and cut them once 
again ; arrange them all over the cake ; clean and sprinkle 
the currants over them ; sprinkle well with granulated 
sugar and dust with nutmeg ; rise for half an hour, then 
bake for about 40 minutes ; cut in quarters. This cake 
is also delicious done with large blue plums cut in half 
and the stones taken out. 



BREAD, CAKES AND BISCUITS. 149 

BUTTERMILK CAKE . No. 309. 

7 lbs. flour, i 7 lb. currants. 
2 oz. carbonate of soda. J oz. ground spice. 

If lb. butter. 1 lb. candied peel. 

If lb. sugar. | 

Eub the butter into the flour very thoroughly ; clean 
the currants (No. 426), cut the peel (No. 427) ; mix all 
the dry ingredients together ; use sufficient butter milk 
to bind well together ; bake at once for 3 to 4 hours. 

BUN LOAF. No. 310. 



8 lb. flour. 

1 lb. moist sugar. 

4 eggs. 

1 oz. yeast. 

1 lb. currants. 



^ lb. raisins. 
I lb. lard. 
A little spice. 
Water. 



Eub the lard into the flour ; cream the yeast with a 
teaspoon of sugar ; add one pint of lukewarm water to it ; 
make a well in the middle of the flour ; pour in the yeast ; 
mix with a little of the flour ; cover the basin and rise for 
about three-quarters of an hour ; beat the eggs ; put them 
in with the fruit, sugar and spice and knead all into a 
smooth dough with the hand, taking a little more water if 
necessary ; rise again for 2 hours ; bake in large square tins 
about 1 to 1^ hours. This loaf improves with keeping. 

BREAD AND BUTTER CAKE. No. 311. 



1 lb. flour. 

4 oz. castor sugar. 

2 small teaspoons baking pow- 



2 oz. butter. 
2 eggs. 



A little milk, 
der. ^ teaspoon salt. 

Eub the butter well into the flour ; add the sugar, salt 



150 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

and baking powder ; beat the eggs and form a stiff paste 
with them, using a little milk if required ; bake in a " tin 
loaf " shape tin, greased and flom-ed, for about 40 minutes 
a good colour and a nice crust ; cut in thin slices and 
butter. 

BREAKFAST ROLLS. No. 312. 

1 lb. flour, ' 1 teaspoon salt. 

J oz, German yeast. 1 teaspoon sugar. 

J pint tepid water. 2 oz. butter. 

Cream the yeast and sugar and add to it the lukewarm 
water ; rub the butter into the flour thoroughly ; add the 
salt and mix into a stiff dough with the water ; knead 
well ; form into a long roll under the hands on the floured 
board ; cut off into 3-inch rolls ; rise on a floured baking 
tin for an hour ; bake in a quick oven for 15 to 20 minutes ; 
when done rasp the outsides. Serve hot. 

BROWN BREAD. No. 313. 

1 lb. wheatmeal. , | pint tepid water. 

J oz. yeast. ! 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon sugar. 

Put the wheatmeal into a basin with the salt ; cream 
the yeast and sugar ; mix them with the water and stir 
it into the flour ; knead smooth ; rise the dough for 1 
hour ; cut off into small pieces ; press into square tins 
greased and floured ; bake in a good oven for 40 minutes. 

BUNS. No. 314. 

3 gills water. 1| lb. flour. 
1 oz. yeast. | 3 oz. lard. 

1 teaspoon castor sugar. 4 oz. currants. 

4 oz. moist sugar. 



BREAD, CAKES AND BISCUITS. 151 

Cream the castor sugar and yeast and add to it the 
water lukewarm ; stir this into half a pound of the flour 
and rise the batter for about an hour ; rub the lard into 
the other flour, then beat it and the other ingredients 
with the hands into the dough ; rise again for 2 
hours ; make up into small round buns ; place them on a 
greased tin ; rise for 15 minutes and bake in a quick oven 
for 15 to 20 minutes. Just before removing them from 
the oven brush them with milk and sugar to glaze them 
(equal quantities of each). 



BRANDY SNAPS. No. 315. 

Mix equal quantities butter, sugar and treacle warmed, 
with always ^ oz. less of flour and a little ground ginger ; 
place this mixture in small heaps, rather far apart, on a 
well-greased baking-tin ; bake in a moderate oven for a 
few minutes until they are brown and bubbling all over ; 
stamp out into rounds with a pastry cutter, and when 
nearly set remove them quickly from the tin, and roll 
them over a thick wooden spoon or rolling-pin until they 
are cold and crisp. 



BUTTER ICING. No. 316. 



^ lb. icing sugar. 1 3 oz. fresh butter. 

1 tablespoon coffee. | 

Sieve the sugar through a hair sieve ; cream it until 
quite smooth and soft with the butter, adding the coffee 
cold by degrees until the required colour and flavour is 
reached. The icing is then ready for spreading on a cake, 
and should be kept in a cool place. 



152 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 



No. 317 



2 oz. butter. 

2 oz. castor sugar. 

2 eggs. 



2 oz. grated chocolate. 

2 oz. flour, 

J teaspoon baking powder. 



Cream the butter and sugar ; beat in the eggs one at a 
time, then the chocolate, flour and baking powder ; pour 
into a small Yorkshire pudding tin, greased and lined 
with greased paper ; spread it flat and bake in a moderate 
oven 10 to 15 minutes ; turn out on a sugared paper ; 
spread the underneath side thinly with apricot jam ; 
sprinkle with cocoanut and cut into fingers. 



CHOCOLATE SANDWICH CAKE. 



No. 318. 



2 eggs. 

3 oz. castor sugar. 

J teaspoon baking powder, 
1 tablespoon milk. 



3 oz. butter. 

4 oz. flour, 

1 oz. ground rice. 



Separate the whites and yolks of the eggs ; beat yolks 
and sugar ; melt the butter and stir in alternately with 
the flour, ground rice and baking powder, lastly the 
whites whisked stiffly and milk ; bake in a shallow 
round tin 20 to 30 minutes ; when cold cut through and 
spread with chocolate icing ; join again and ice over the 
top (No. 328). 



COCOANUT FINGERS. 

2 oz. butter. 
2 oz, sugar. 
2 eggs. 



No, 319. 



2 oz. cocoanut. 

2 oz. flour. 

J teaspoon baking powder. 



Cream, butter and sugar well together ; beat in the 



BREAD, CAKES AND BISCUITS. 



153 



eggs one at a time and stir the flour, cocoanut and 
baking powder in lastly, bake in a Yorkshire tin, lined 
with greased paper, for 10 to 15 minutes ; turn upside 
down to cool ; pom- over a white glace icing (No. 336) ; 
when set, cut into shapes and decorate. 



CHERRY CAKE. 



No. 320. 



5 oz. flour. 

4 oz. sugar. 

1 tablespoon milk. 

3 oz. butter. 



2 oz. cherries. 

2 eggs. 

1 oz. Paisley flour. 



Cream butter and sugar well together ; beat in the 
eggs ; add the flours by degrees, stirring lightly, and 
lastly add the milk and cherries cut in quarters ; bake 
about 40 minutes in a moderate oven in a greased 
and lined cake tin. 



CUDDESTON CAKE. 



No. 321. 



6 oz. butter. 

6 oz. moist sugar. 

1 lb. currants. 

4 oz. candied peel. 

J wineglass rum or brandy. 



2 oz. golden syrup. 

3 eggs. 

1 gill warm milk. 
I lb. flour. 



Eub the butter into the flour thoroughly ; clean and 
dry the currants (No. 426) ; slice the peel thin but large ; 
mix in all the dry ingredients ; beat the egg and mix in 
with the syrup and milk ; bake in a greased and lined 
tin for 2 hours. The brandy or rum should be put in at 
the last. 



154 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

COFFEE AND ALMOND FINGERS. No. 322. 



3 oz. butter. 

3 oz. castor sugar. 

J teaspoon baking powder. 

3 oz. ground almonds. 

2 oz. castor sugar. 



2 eggs. 

4 oz. flour. 

6 oz. coffee icing. 

White 1 egg. 



Cream the butter and sugar thoroughly ; beat in the 
eggs one at a time ; stir in the flour and baking powder 
lightly ; bake in a Yorkshire tin greased and lined with 
paper for 15 to 20 minutes ; turn out to cool ; mix the 
ground almonds and 2 oz. sugar to a stiff paste with 
enough beaten white of egg and knead smooth with the 
hand, adding a few drops of green colouring to make 
a pretty centre for the cake ; roll out thin on a board the 
same size as the cake ; split the cake open and lay on the 
almond ; press the cake on top again and ice it over with 
coffee glace icing; cut into fancy shapes and decorate 
with a little chopped pistachio nut and cherries. 

COCOANUT MACAROONS. No. 323. 



5 oz. cocoanut. i 2^ oz. sugar. 

White of egg. 1 Rice paper. 

Put the sugar into a basin with the cocoanut and mix 
them ; use sufl&cient beaten white of egg to bind stiffly, 
kneading the mixture with the hand ; pile in httle 
pyramid shapes on rice paper ; bake on a slow oven 
15 to 20 minutes a delicate colour ; tear off the rice 
paper neatly round the edges. 

CREAM CAKE. No. 324. 



3 eggs. I 1 gill cocoanut. 

2 gills castor sugar. 3 gills flour. 

1 gill cream. j 2 teaspoons baking powder. 



BREAD, CAKES AND BISCUITS. 155 

Beat eggs and sugar (taking away one white) until 
very thick; add flour and cream by degrees, lastly 
cocoanut and baking powder ; bake in well-greased and 
floured tins about 15 minutes ; spread over with the 
white of egg whisked and mixed with 1^ oz. castor 
sugar ; sprinkle thickly with cocoanut and set in a very 
slow oven until crisp, but do not colour the meringue. 

These should be baked in rather small shallow tins. 

COBURG CAKES. No. 325. 



6 oz. flour. ^ gill milk. 

2 oz. castor sugar. 1 teaspoon carbonate of soda. 

1 tablespoon golden syrup. 1 teaspoon ground ginger. 
.3 oz. butter. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

2 eggs. I 

Cream butter and sugar ; beat in the eggs, one at 
a time, and the syrup, spices and flour, lastly the soda 
and milk mixed ; grease some queen-cake tins ; place 
a blanched almond at the bottom of each and half fill 
the tins with the mixture ; bake in a moderate oven for 
30 minutes ; turn out and dust with icing sugar. 

CORNFLOUR CAKES. No. 326. 



2 oz. butter. ; 2 oz. cornflour. 

2 oz. sugar. 2 oz. flour. 

2 eggs. ^ teaspoon baking powder. 

1 tablespoon milk. A few cherries. 

Cream the butter and sugar until soft and white ; beat 
the eggs and stir them in ; add the flours, baking powder 
and milk by degrees ; half fill fancy tins greased and 
floured ; place a half cherry on top of each and bake for 
10 minutes. 



156 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

CINNAMON CAKES. No. 327. 



2 oz. sweet almonds. 

2 whites of eggs. 

3 oz. castor sugar. 

J teaspoon cinnamon. 



6 oz. flour. 
2J oz. butter. 
Beaten egg. 
A pinch of salt. 
Raspberry jam. 

Rub the butter well into the flour and mix into a stiff 
paste with beaten egg ; work smooth and roll out an 
eighth of an inch thick ; cut into small oblong pieces ; 
spread with raspberry jam ; blanch and chop the almonds 
and sprinkle them over the jam ; whisk the whites stiffly 
with a pinch of salt ; stir to them the sugar and cinnamon ; 
spread this neatly and not too thick over the pastry ; dust 
well with sugar and bake in a slow oven for 1 hour. 
They should be thoroughly crisp all through. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. No. 328. 

6 oz. icing sugar. I 2 oz. chocolate. 

I gill water. | 

Cadbury's Mexican chocolate is a good one for this 
icing. Grate it and boil in the water gently until smooth 
and shiny ; take off the fire and stir in the icing sugar by 
degrees, having first sieved it through a hair sieve. A 
little more water must be used if necessary. The icing 
should be sufficiently thick to coat the spoon with. 

DUNDEE CAKE. No. 329. 



3 oz. butter. i 5 oz. flour, 

3 oz. sugar. I ^ teaspoon baking powder, 
2 eggs. 

4 oz. currants. 
2 oz. candied peel. 
A little nutmeg. 



2 tablespoons golden syrup. 
White of 1 egg. 
Carraway comfits. 



BREAD, CAKES AND BISCUITS. 



157 



Cream the butter and sugar well together ; beat in the 
eggs one at a time ; stir in the syrup and nutmeg, the 
flour by degrees and, lastly, the fruit and baking powder ; 
bake about 1|- hours ; spread the top with the white of 
egg beaten and mixed with 1 oz. castor sugar ; when it 
is nearly cooked and baked quite crisp, make a design 
with the comfits on the top of the cake and dust with 
icing sugar. 



DOUGH NUTS. 

f lb. flour. 

3 oz. currants. 

2 oz. sugar. 

I teaspoon cinnamon. 



No. 330. 



1^ oz. butter. 

legg. 
IJ gills milk. 

^ oz. yeast. 



Cream the yeast with one teaspoon of sugar ; dissolve 
the butter, add to it the milk and make lukewarm ; beat 
the egg and stir it in ; put the flour, sugar, spice, a little 
salt and the currants cleaned into a basin and mix into 
a smooth dough with the milk, etc. ; beat well and prove 
for 1^ to 2 hours very light ; take up the dough, knead it 
smooth and make into very small balls ; drop into smoking 
hot fat ; fry them 5 minutes ; drain on paper and dust well 
with castor sugar. 



ENDSLEIGH BISCUITS. 

2 oz. butter. 

2 oz. castor sugar. 

^ teaspoon baking powder. 



No. 331. 



2 oz. flour, 

2 oz. ground rice. 

1 small egg. 



Eub the butter into flour and ground rice ; add sugar, 
baking powder; beat the egg and use enough of it to 



158 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 



form a stiff paste ; roll out a quarter of an inch thick and 
bake a golden colour 15 to 20 minutes. They may be 
flavoured if liked. 



GINGER CAKES. 

^ lb. flour. 

3 oz. butter. 

^ teaspoon baking powder. 

1 oz. loaf sugar. 



No. 332. 



2 eggs. 

3 oz. sugar. 

2 oz. crystallised ginger. 
1 teaspoon ground ginger. 



Eub the butter into the flour thoroughly with the tips 
of the fingers ; mix in the castor sugar, ginger (the 
crystallised being cut into dice), baking powder ; mix 
with the eggs beaten (a little milk may be used if 
necessary) ; crush the lump sugar and sprinkle on the 
top ; bake in a greased and lined tin 40 minutes. 



GINGER ROCK CAKES. 



No. 333. 



6 oz. flour. 


1 oz. crystallised ginger. 


2 oz. butter. 


^ teaspoon ground ginger. 


2 oz. sugar. 


J teaspoon baking powder. 


1 egg. 





Rub the butter into the flour ; add ginger cut up, 
sugar, baking powder, ground ginger and a pinch of 
salt ; beat the egg and bind the mixture into a stiff 
paste ; place in little rough heaps on a greased baking 
sheet ; bake 10 to 15 minutes ; dust with sugar. 



GINGERBREAD NUTS. 

I lb. flour. 

8 oz. moist sugar. 

^ gill water. 

1 teaspoon essence of lemon. 



No. 334. 



3 oz. butter. 

^ oz. ground ginger. 

2 oz. golden syrup. 



Rub the butter into the flour ; mix in all the ingredients ; 



BREAD, CAKES AND BISCUITS. 159 

knead into a stiff paste ; roll out a quarter of an inch 
thick ; cut into rounds ; put them on a greased tin ; bake 
in a moderate oven. This mixture is improved for 
standing by some time before cutting and baking. 

GINGERBREAD CAKE. No. 335. 

f lb. flour. 4 oz. lard or butter. 

1 teaspoon ground ginger. 4 oz. brown sugar. 
J teaspoon carbonate of soda. ! 6 oz. golden syrup. 

2 eggs. i 1 gill milk. 

Put the flour, soda, ginger and a pinch of salt into a 
basin ; dissolve slowly the sugar, syrup and fat ; stir till 
cool, pour to the flour, with the eggs beaten and the 
milk ; beat well together ; pour into a well-greased York- 
shire tin and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters 
of an hour ; dust with icing sugar and cut into squares. 

GLACE! ICING. No. 336. 



^ lb. icing sugar. 1 Water. 

Flavouring. ! Colouring. 

Pass the sugar through a hair sieve ; put it into a sauce- 
pan and add any flavouring or drops of colouring as may 
be desired ; stir in enough boiling water to form a thick 
creamy consistency, thick enough to coat a spoon ; pour 
over cakes or pastry and spread even with a knife dipped 
in hot water. 

HOUSEHOLD BREAD. No. 337. 

3^ lbs. flour. J oz. salt. 

I oz. yeast. 1 teaspoon sugar. 

1^ pints of tepid water. 

Put the flour and salt into a basin ; make a well in the 



i6o HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

middle of it ; dissolve the yeast and sugar and mix with 
the water ; pour this to the middle of the flour and work 
in enough flour from the sides with a spoon to form a 
thin batter; set this sponge to rise for half an hour; 
take up the dough and knead into a smooth piece, using 
a little more water if necessary (the dough must not be 
too stiff or the bread will be close and crumbly) ; rise again 
near the fire, covered with a cloth, for about 2 hours, 
when turn out on a floured board and knead it perfectly 
smooth ; make up into loaves and bake. 

A good hot oven is required at first and a cooler heat 
after to soak the loaves. If made into 2 loaves, bake 
about Ij hours. Turn upside down and keep in the 
kitchen until cold. 

MARMALADE CAKE. No. 338. 



I lb. flour. 

1 tablespoon marmalade. 

2 eggs. 
Salt. 



3 oz. butter. 

3 oz. sugar. 

J gill ixiilk. 

^ teaspoon baking powder. 



Eub the butter into the flour; add sugar, salt and 
baking powder ; beat the eggs lightly and mix with the 
milk ; stir into the cake gently with the marmalade ; bake 
in a lined and greased tin 40 minutes ; dust with icing 
sugar. 

MADEIRA CAKE. No. 339. 



2J oz. butter. 

2^ oz. castor sugar. 

A strip of citron. 



2 eggs. 

4 oz. flour. 

^ teaspoon baking powder. 



Melt the butter, stir it back to a cream ; add the eggs 
beaten and beat well together; stir in the flour very 



BREAD, CAKES AND BISCUITS. i6i 

lightly and add the baking powder last ; pour into a lined 
and greased tin ; bake in a moderate oven for 40 minutes. 
When half cooked put the strip of citron on the top of 
the cake. 

MACAROONS. No. 340. 



2 oz. sweet almonds. I 6 oz. loaf sugar. 

2 whites of egg. I Rice paper. 

Blanch, skin and dry the almonds ; pound them in a 
mortar until quite fine, and pass them through a wire 
sieve ; whisk the whites very stiff and add them to the 
almonds, forming a softish paste. Lay the mixture out 
on rice paper in small heaps ; place 2 or 3 strips of almond 
across the top ; dust with castor sugar and bake them in 
a cool oven to a pale yellow. They are done when firm 
through. Allow them to cool on the tin, and break the 
paper neatly away round the edges. 

MILK BREAD. No. 341. 



1 lb. flour. I Milk. 

1 teaspoon salt. I 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Mix the flour, salt and baking powder together and 
mix in enough milk with the hands to bind into a stiff 
paste, just a little less stiff than for short pastry ; work 
up into a smooth ball quickly ; put on a greased baking- 
tin ; cut the top of the loaf into a set of crossbars ; brush 
over with beaten egg ; bake in a quick oven for 20 minutes. 

MILK CAKES. No. 342. 



6 oz. flour. 
1^ oz. butter. 
Milk. 



1 teaspoon baking powder. 

A little salt. 

^ oz. castor sugar. 



Rub the butter into the flour verv thoroughly; add 
11 



i62 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

the salt, sugar and baking powder ; mix into a stiff 
paste with milk ; work up smooth ; roll out half an inch 
thick on a floured board ; cut into small rounds with a 
fluted cutter ; brush over with beaten egg ; bake on a 
greased tin for 10 minutes ; split open and butter while 
hot. 

ORANGE CAKES. No. 343. 



2 oz. butter. 

2 oz. castor sugar, 
1 orange. 

3 oz. flour. 



2 eggs. 

J teaspoon baking powder. 

6 oz. icing sugar. 



Cream the butter and sugar to a soft cream ; beat in 
the eggs one at a time and stir in the flour lightly and 
by degrees, lastly, add the orange rind grated thinly and 
the baking powder ; pour into a shallow tin greased and 
lined with paper ; bake 10 to 15 minutes ; when cool 
spread over with the icing sugar sieved and stirred quite 
smooth with some of the orange juice ; cut into diamond 
shapes and decorate with fancifully-cut pieces of orange 
rind. 

OATEN BISCUITS. No. 344. 



4 oz. medium oatmeal. 

1 oz. flour. 

^ teaspoon carbonate soda. 



2 oz. lard or butter. 
I gill milk. 



Mix together in a basin the oatmeal, sugar, soda, flour 
and a pinch of salt ; boil the lard and milk ; stir it into 
the flour and knead into a smooth paste ; roll out on a 
floured board to an eighth of an inch thick ; cut into 
rounds and bake on a greased tin 20 to 30 minutes; 
place on a tin until crisp. 



BREAD, CAKES AND BISCUITS. 163 

OATEN CAKES. No. 345. 

4 tablespoons finest oatmeal. A small pinch carbonate of 

^ oz. lard or dripping. , soda. 

^ teaspoon salt. j 

Mix the meal, salt and soda together and rub the fat 
well in ; add enough hot water to make rather a soft 
paste ; lift out on to a heap of dry meal ; flatten out with 
the hand and rub in plenty of the meal until the mixture 
is white looking ; brush off the loose meal and roll out 
very thin (the thinner they are rolled the better they 
will curl in the cooking) ; cut into triangular shapes ; 
place them on a greased tin and dry them on top of a 
cool stove ; when they begin to curl finish them in a 
moderate oven. They should become perfectly dry. 

RUSKS. No. 346. 



^ lb. flour. 

1 egg. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 



1 oz. butter. 

I gill milk. 

I teaspoon salt. 



Mix flour, salt and baking powder together ; warm the 
butter, milk and egg beaten, and mix into a stiff paste 
with the flour ; roll out on a floured board quarter of 
an inch thick ; stamp out with a small fluted cutter ; 
bake in a quick oven a pale colour, then cut them 
through sideways ; turn them upside down on a clean 
tin and dry until quite crisp in a cool oven. 

RICE CAKE. No. 347. 



6 oz. butter. 
6 oz. flour. 
3 eggs. 
1 lemon grated. 



6 oz. castor sugar. 

6 oz. ground rice. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 

1 teacup milk. 



Just oil the butter and beat it back to a cream with 



i64 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

a wooden spoon ; add the sugar and cream again for 5 
minutes ; beat the eggs and stir in by degrees and then 
stir in the flour, rice, lemon, baking powder and milk ; 
bake in a moderate oven in a greased and lined tin for 
about an hour. 

RICE CAKES. No. 348. 



2 oz. butter. 
2 oz. castor sugar. 
4 oz. ground rice. 
2 oz. flour. 



legg. 

2 tablespoons milk. 

J teaspoon baking powder. 



Beat the butter and sugar to a soft cream ; whisk the 
egg and stir it in ; mix together the flour, rice and baking 
powder ; stir these in by degrees, adding the milk at the 
last ; grease 12 small patty tins ; dredge them with flour ; 
place the mixture in the tins high in the middle and 
bake quickly for 10 to 15 minutes. 

RICH PLUM CAKE. No. 349. 

1 lb. flour. 4 oz. castor sugar. 

^ lb. candied peel. 1 lb. currants. 

1 lb. raisins. 1 oz. almonds. 

1 teaspoon cinnamon. ^ pint milk. 

1 teaspoon carbonate of soda. 2 eggs. 
^ lb. butter or lard. 

Sift the flour ; rub the fat in thoroughly ; add the fruit 
(raisins stoned and cut in half, almonds blanched and 
shredded, peel cut thin and large) ; beat the eggs and add 
with the soda dissolved in the milk ; bake from 3 to 4 
hours in a lined and greased tin. A hot oven at first, 
and soak the cake in a cool one covered with greased 
paper. 



BREAD, CAKES AND BISCUITS. 165 

ROCK CAKES. No. 350. 

6 oz. flour. I .3 oz. currants. 

2 oz. butter. i 1 oz. candied peel. 

1 egg. A little nutmeg. 

^ teaspoon baking powder. A good pinch of salt. 

2 oz. sugar. 

Rub the butter into the flour ; add the dry materials ; 
beat the egg and bind the mixture into a stiff paste ; 
place in small rocky heaps on a greased tin ; bake in a 
quick oven for 15 to 20 minutes ; dust with sugar. 

SPONGE CAKE. No. 351. 



5 eggs. j 6 oz. flour. 

J lb. castor sugar. | A good pinch of salt. 

Whisk the eggs in a large basin until they are light 
and frothy ; add the sugar and beat over a pan of hot 
steam until the mixture is warm ; then off the steam 
until thick and white ; dry and sift the flour, stir it in 
very lightly and pour into a prepared cake tin ; bake in 
a moderate oven on a trivet to prevent the bottom of 
the cake from burning for about 1 hour. For the tin 
clarify 1 oz. butter (No. 416) ; stir into it ^ oz. flour ; 
grease the tin thickly with this and dust it well with 
castor sugar. This will give the cake a nice white casing. 

SEED CAKE. No. 352. 



J lb. flour. 
8 oz. butter. 
3 oz. sugar. 
J gill milk. 



1 teaspoon carraway seeds. 
^ teaspoon baking powder. 

2 eggs. 



Rub the butter well into the flour ; add the seeds, 



i66 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

sugar, baking powder and a pinch of salt ; whisk the eggs 
and add to the milk ; stir into the flour, but do not beat ; 
pour into a greased tin and bake about 40 minutes (a hot 
oven for the first 15 minutes and cooler one after). 



SULTANA CAKE. No. 353. 



1 lb. flour. ^ lb. sultanas. 

6 oz. butter, lard or dripping. 3 oz. candied peel. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. A little nutmeg. 

IJ gills milk. 2 eggs. 

6 oz. sugar. 1 

Rub the fat into the flour very thoroughly ; wash and 
dry the sultanas ; cut the peel thin ; add all the dry 
ingredients ; beat the eggs and mix with the milk ; stir 
in lightly ; pour into a greased tin and bake about 1^ 
hours. 



SWISS ROLL. No. 354. 



3 eggs. j 3 oz. flour. 

4 oz. castor sugar. ; Jam. 

Whisk the eggs in a large basin to a Ught froth ; add 
the sugar and beat over steam until the mixture is thick 
and nearly white ; take off the fire and beat until nearly 
cold ; stir in the flour as lightly as possible ; grease a 
Swiss roll tin and line it with greased paper, allowing 
the paper to come 2 inches above the edges to preserve 
the colour of the cake ; pour in the mixture, spread it 
even and bake in a good oven from 5 to 7 minutes (not 
longer, or it will crack in the rolhng) ; turn out on a 
sugared paper ; spread over thinly and quickly with warm 
jam ; roll up and dust well with sugar. 



BREAD, CAKES AND BISCUITS. 167 

SIMNEL CAKE. No. 355. 



8 oz. butter. 
12 oz. flour. 
5 eggs. 

^ teaspoon mixed spice. 
1 lb. ground almonds. 



12 oz. currants. 
1 lb. castor sugar. 
4 oz. candied peel. 
^ teaspoon baking powder. 
Juice of half a lemon. 



First make an almond paste ; mix together in a basin 
half the sugar and the almonds ; melt 2 oz. of the butter ; 
separate the whites of 2 of the eggs, and whisk them stiff ; 
add these with the yolks to the almonds and work into a 
paste ; roll out ; cream the butter and sugar, add the 
spice and beat in the eggs one at a time; stir in the 
flour by degrees and, lastly, the fruit and baking powder ; 
grease a square tin, line it with greased paper ; put in 
half the cake mixture and spread over half the almond 
paste, then the other half of the cake ; bake in a good oven 
about 2 to 3 hours ; when the cake is about three parts 
cooked arrange the other half of the almond paste in a 
roll round the top of it and finish baking slowly ; decorate 
in the centre with comfits or fruits and dust w^ith icing 
sugar. 



SPONGE PARKIN. 

IJ lb. flour. 
1 lb. treacle. 

3 teaspoons ground ginger. 
J teaspoon carbonate soda. 



No. 356. 



6 oz. sugar. 

2 teaspoons baking powder, 
5 oz. lard or dripping. 
1 gill warm milk. 



Kub the fat well into the flour ; add sugar, ginger and 
baking powder ; warm the treacle ; mix it with the milk 
and soda and stir all well together ; bake in a moderate 
oven 1 to 1| hours ; dust with icing sugar. 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 



SCOTCH PARKIN . 

4 tablespoons flour. 

4 tablespoons medium 

meal. 
IJ oz. lard. 
J teaspoon mixed spice. 



No. 357. 



2 tablespoons golden syrup, 
oat- 2 tablespoons soft brown sugar. 
1 teaspoon carbonate of soda. 
J teaspoon powdered ammonia. 



Mix all the dry ingredients, then work in the syrup ; 
knead well into a paste ; roll out a quarter inch thick ; cut 
into rounds ; bake in a slow oven 15 to 20 minutes. A few 
shredded almonds placed on the top before baking are an 
improvement. 



SCONES. 



No. 358. 



6 oz. flour. j 1 oz. sugar. 
^ teaspoon cream of tartar. 2 oz. sultanas. 

^ teaspoon carbonate of soda. Milk. 

1^ oz. lard or butter. i 

Eub the butter into the flour ; add the sugar, carbonate 
of soda, cream of tartar and sultanas washed and dried ; 
mix into a stiff paste with cold milk ; roll out on a floured 
board into rounds half an inch thick, dividing the mixtm'e 
into two ; cut across with a knife ; bake on a gi'eased tin 
15 to 20 minutes ; dissolve 1 teaspoon of sugar in one of 
milk ; brush the scones over and dry the glaze in the 
oven for 1 minute. 



STUFFED COCOANUT CAKE. 

3 oz. butter. 

4 oz. castor sugar. 
J teaspoon baking powder. 



No. 359. 



2 eggs. 

4 oz. cocoanut. 

5 oz. flour. 



Cream the butter and sugar well together ; beat in the 



BREAD, CAKES AND BISCUITS. 169 

eggs one at a time and stir in the flour, cocoanut and 
baking powder ; bake in two shallow tins greased and 
floured for about 10 to 15 minutes ; stick together with 
1 oz. butter melted ; cook in it ^ oz. flour ; add one gill of 
milk and boil to a thick sauce ; add one teaspoon sugar 
and 2 oz. cocoanut ; ice the cake over with white or pink 
glace icing (No. 336). 



SHORTBREAD. No. 360. 



3 oz. flour. 
2^ oz. butter. 
Citron. 



1 oz. ground rice. 
IJ oz. castor sugar. 



Rub the butter, rice, sugar and flour well together, then 
with the hand knead into a smooth paste without any 
cracks ; roll out carefully on a floured board a quarter 
inch thick ; cut into oblong shapes 3 inches long ; bake 
on a greased tin, placing a thin diamond-shaped piece of 
citron on each, in a slow oven 15 to 20 minutes ; allow 
the cakes to set and cool on the tin ; dust with castor 
sugar. 

SNOW CAKE. No. .861. 



^ lb. arrowroot. 4 oz. fresh white butter. 

4 oz. castor sugar. 4 whites of egg. 

Vanilla essence. 

Cream the butter and sugar until soft and white ; sieve 
the arrowroot and stir in by degrees ; whisk the eggs 
stiffly and add also by degrees ; beat all for 15 minutes ; 
bake in a shallow tin, greased and lined in a moderate 
oven about 40 minutes. 



I70 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES, 

TEA BUNS. No. 362. 



8 oz. flour. 

3 oz. sugar. 

4 oz. sultanas. 

2 oz. candied peel. 

3 oz. butter. 



^ teaspoon baking powder. 

1 oz. loaf sugar. 
^ gill milk. 

2 eggs. 



Rub the butter well into the flour ; add the sultanas 
washed and picked, the sugar, peel sliced and baking 
powder ; beat the eggs ; mix them with the milk and stir 
to the dry ingredients ; place a dessertspoon of the 
mixture in a small greased patty pan ; break up the lump 
sugar and put some pieces on the top of each bun ; bake 
15 to 20 minutes. 

VICTORIA CAKES . No. 363. 

3 oz. flour. 



2 oz. butter. 
2 oz. castor sugar. 
2 eggs. 
Raspberry jam. 



^ teaspoon baking powder. 

Cochineal. 

6 oz. pink glace icing (No. 336). 



Cream the butter and sugar ; beat in the eggs one at 
a time ; stir in the flour and baking powder lightly ; add 
enough cochineal to make a pretty pink colour ; bake the 
cake ; spread out on a Yorkshire tin, greased and lined with 
paper, 10 minutes ; turn out and when cold split in half 
sideways, spread thinly with jam, place together again 
and pour over pink glace icing, using a hot knife to 
smooth the cake over with ; cut into crescent, oval and 
diamond shapes and place half a cherry on each. 

VIENNA FINGERS. No. 364. 

2 oz. butter. 2 eggs. 

2 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. currants. 

3 oz. flour. j ^ teaspoon baking powder. 
( 1^ oz. sweet almonds. i White of 1 egg. 

\ 1 J oz. castor sugar. , ^ teaspoon vanilla. 



BREAD, CAKES AND BISCUITS. 171 

Grease and line a small Yorkshire tin with paper; 
cream the butter and sugar well together; beat in the 
eggs one at a time ; stir in the flour, baking powder, 
currants washed and vanilla ; spread over the tin and 
bake for 7 to 10 minutes ; whisk the white of egg and 
mix well with the almonds blanched and chopped roughly 
and sugar ; spread this thinly over the cake, dust with 
sugar and keep in a cool part of the oven until the 
meringue is crisp and a pale fawn colour ; cut the cake 
into small fingers and dust with sugar. 

VANILLA FINGERS. No. 365. 



2 oz. butter. 

2 oz. sugar. 

2 eggs. 

6 oz. glace icing (No. 3.36). 



3 oz. flour. 

^ teaspoon baking powder. 

I teaspoon vanilla. 

Angelica. 



Cream the butter and sugar well together ; add the 
eggs one at a time ; stir in the flour, baking powder 
and vanilla ; spread the mixture on a flat tin, greased 
and lined ; bake a pale colour about 15 minutes ; turn out 
and when the cake is cold ice over with pale yellow 
glace, using a few drops of apricot colouring ; cut into 
fingers and decorate with small pieces of thin angelica. 

WAFER BISCUITS . No. .366. 

^ lb. flour. I J teaspoon salt. 

2 oz. butter. | Milk. 

Rub the butter very thoroughly into the flour ; add the 
salt and mix into a stiffish paste with milk ; work smooth 
and put the paste on a floured board ; beat it all over for 
quite 10 minutes to make the biscuits full of bubbles ; 
roll out as thin as possible on a floured board, but do not 



172 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

work in any more flour than is necessary to prevent 
sticking ; cut into large square biscuits ; bake in a quick 
oven a very pale colour. 

WHEATMEAL BISCUITS. No. 367. 



4 oz. wheatmeal. I J oz. castor sugar. 

Salt. ^ gill milk. 

J teaspoon carbonate of soda. | 1 oz. butter. 

Put the wheatmeal, sugar, salt and soda into a basin 
and mix into a paste with the butter and milk made 
hot together ; knead smooth, roll out an eighth of an 
inch thick, cut into rounds, place them on a greased 
tin and bake 15 to 20 minutes. Prick the biscuits before 
putting them into the oven. 

WHEATMEAL SCONES. No. 368. 



^ lb. wheatmeal. 

2 oz. sugar. 

1 good teaspoon baking powder. 

1 oz. butter. 



1 oz. lard. 
1 beaten egg. 
A little milk. 



Rub the butter and lard well into the meal ; add salt, 
sugar and baking powder ; whisk the egg and bind the 
meal into a stiff paste with it, using a Uttle milk as well 
if required ; work the mixture up smooth, divide into 
two, roll out on a floured board half an inch thick, cut 
across with a knife ; bake on a greased tin for 20 to 30 
minutes. 

WATER BISCUITS. No. 369. 



4 oz. flour. I Salt. 

1 oz. butter. | Cold water. 

Rub the butter into the flour ; add the salt and mix with 



BREAD, CAKES AND BISCUITS. 



173 



enough water to form a stiff paste ; turn on a board, beat 
well with a rolling pin, roll out very thin, cut into rounds, 
place in a tin and prick all over ; bake a few minutes in 
a quick oven a pale colour. 



QUEEN CAKES. 

3 oz. butter. 

3 oz. sugar. 

^ teaspoon baking powder. 

1 oz. candied peel. 



No. 370. 



2 eggs. 

4 oz. flour. 

2 oz. currants. 

Half a grated lemon. 



Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the eggs 
one at a time and stir in the flour lightly, lastly add 
fruit, lemon and baking powder ; grease 12 queen-cake 
tins and flour them ; half fill them with the mixture 
and bake a delicate colour for 20 minutes. 



YORKSHIRE TEA CAKES. 



No. 371. 



f lb. flour, 
i oz. yeast. 
J teaspoon salt. 
1 teaspoon sugar. 


J oz. butter. 

legg. 

1 gill milk. 



Dissolve the yeast with a teaspoon of sugar ; make the 
butter and milk warm together and stir to the yeast ; put 
flour and salt in a basin ; add yeast, etc., and the egg 
beaten ; beat to a Hght dough ; half fill two small 
greased cake tins ; allow the dough to rise in them for 
1 hour ; bake for half an hour ; brush the top over with 
sweetened milk ; dry the glaze a minute in the oven 
and turn out carefully on a sieve to cool. 



174 



INVALID COOKERY. 

ARROWROOT SOUFFL^. No. 372. 



J pint milk. 

1 dessertspoon arrowroot. 

^ oz. sugar. 



A strip of lemon rind. 
2 eggs. 



Boil the milk, stirring it to prevent it burning, with 
the lemon ; mix the arrowroot to a smooth cream with a 
little cold milk ; pour on the boiUng milk, return to the 
saucepan and boil for 2 minutes ; take off the fire and stir 
in the sugar and yolks of egg ; whisk the whites stiff and 
mix them in lightly ; pour into a well-greased pie dish, or 
into ramequin cases, and bake in a moderate oven for 10 
to 15 minutes ; dust with sugar and serve hot. 

APPLE SNOW. No. 373. 



3 apples. 

2 oz. loaf sugar. 

^ gill water. 



White of 2 eggs. 

1 strip of lemon rind. 



Peel, core and quarter the apples ; put them in a 
saucepan with the lemon, water and sugar ; stew gently 
without stirring them until they are quite tender ; take 
out the lemon and pass the apples through a hair sieve ; 
whisk the eggs to a stiff froth and stir in very lightly. 
Serve at once in a glass dish. 





INVALID COOKERY. 175 


APPLE JELLY. 


No. 374. 


1 lb. apples. 


^ rind or juice of one lemon. 


1 pint water. 


4 oz. loaf sugar. 


I oz. gelatine. 





Peel, core and quarter the apples ; stew them gently 
with the water, lemon juice, sugar and the lemon rind 
peeled very thin until tender ; pass them through a hair 
sieve ; dissolve the gelatine in half a gill of warm water 
and stir it to the apple ; pour into a wetted mould and 
set. Before turning out the jelly dip the mould into hot 
water. 

APPLE WATER. No. 375. 



1 apple. I f pint water. 

1 strip lemon rind. I 2 or 3 lumps of sugar. 

Peel the apple and shoe it ; put it into a jug wnth the 
sugar and lemon ; boil the water and pour over ; cover 
the jug and stand by until quite cold ; strain. 

BEEF-TEA. No. 376. 



^ lb. lean shin of beef. 1 Salt. 

^ pint water. I 

Take away all fat and skin from the beef and with a 
sharp knife scrape it up very fine ; put it into a stone jar 
with a pinch of salt and the w^ater and stand by for half an 
hour covered ; place the jar in a saucepan of cold w^ater, 
put on the lid and let the water simmer very gently round 
it. The beef -tea should cook in this way for 1^ to 2 hours, 
stirring it occasionally ; pour off the tea, remove any fat 
with kitchen paper and add a little more salt if required. 



176 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

BEEF-TEA PUDDING. No. 377. 

J pint beef-tea (No. 376). 1 egg. 

1 oz. breadcrumbs. A little salt. 

Put the crumbs into a basin ; pour over them the 
beef-tea and soak it up ; beat the egg and stir in ; add a 
little salt ; pour into a buttered cup or small basin, cover 
with greased paper and steam very gently for half an 
hour; turn out and pour a little beef-tea round. 

BEEF-TEA JELLY. No. 378. 



I pint beef-tea (No. 876). | | oz. gelatine. 

Warm the beef-tea, but do not boil it ; put in the 
gelatine and dissolve very slowly ; stir until nearly cold, 
when pour into small moulds ; when set dip into hot 
water and turn out. 

BARLEY CREAM. No. 379. 



^ lb. lean veal. 
^ oz. pearl barley. 
J pint water. 



Yolk of 1 egg. 
Salt. 



Take off the fat and skin, and cut the veal into small 
pieces ; put them into a stewpan with the cold water 
and a quarter teaspoon of salt ; bring gently to the boil ; 
take otf the fire and skim thoroughly ; blanch the barley 
(No. 425) and put it with the veal ; stew very gently until 
the veal and barley are quite tender ; strain out the meat 
and barley and pound them fine in the mortar ; pass 
through a wire sieve, using enough of the broth to make 
a nice creamy consistency ; make the mixture warm in a 
saucepan and stir in the yolk of egg. Serve with sippets 
of toast. 



INVALID COOKERY. 177 

BARLEY GRUEL. No. 38a 

2 oz. pearl barley. { 1 thin strip lemon. 

1 quart water. ' Sugar to taste. 

Blanch the barley (No. 425) ; put it into a clean sauce- 
pan with the lemon and water and stew^ very gently for 
about 2 hours, stirring occasionally ; when the water is 
nice and thick strain away the barley, add sugar to taste 
and milk if liked. 

BLACK CURRANT TEA. No. 381. 



1 tablespoon black currant jam. 1 pint water. 
1 tablespoon lemon juice. 3 lumps sugar. 

Stew the jam, sugar and water in a clean enamel 
saucepan for 10 minutes very slowdy ; strain and add 
the lemon juice. 

BRAISED SWEETBREAD. No. 382. 



1 calf's sweetbread. 

1 small carrot. 

1 small turnip. 

1 small onion. 

J oz. butter. 

I oz. flour. 

1 sprig parsley. 



^ pint stock (No. 2). 

1 small stick celery. 

3 white peppercorns. 

1 tablespoon cream or yolk of 

legg. 
1 teaspoon lemon juice. 



Blanch the sweetbread thus : Wash it and put it in a 
clean saucepan covered with cold water ; bring to the boil 
and simmer it gently from 3 to 5 minutes, according to 
its thickness (this will make it firm and white) ; put it 
into cold water a minute, then dry it and cut aw^ay the 
fat and gristle ; cut the vegetables into thick slices ; put 
them in a saucepan with the parsley, peppercorns and 

12 



178 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

stock ; bring to the boil ; lay the sweetbread on top and 
cover with a piece of kitchen paper ; simmer gently for 
about three-quarters of an hour ; take up the bread ; strain 
the stock ; melt the butter ; cook the flour in it ; stir in 
the stock and boil up ; take off the fire ; add the cream 
and lemon juice ; pour over the sweetbread and serve 
with sippets of dry toast. 

BRAISED PIGEON. No. 383. 



3 peppercorns. 
^ pint stock or water. 
A small piece each of carrot, 
turnip and onion. 



1 small pigeon. 
1 teaspoon cornflour. 
1 teaspoon sherry. 
1 sprig parsley. 

This is best done by boning the pigeon for an invalid. 
Begin at the neck end and carefully scrape off all the 
meat, working round the body without breaking the 
skin ; make into a neat shape and tie in a piece of 
muslin ; cut up the vegetables ; lay them in a saucepan 
with the bones, stock, parsley and peppercorns ; bring 
to the boil ; place the pigeon on top ; cover with a piece 
of paper and simmer gently for about 40 minutes ; strain 
the stock ; stir the cornflour smooth with a little cold 
stock ; mix it with the braising stock and boil up ; 
season, add the sherry and pour over the pigeon. Serve 
with a Httle boiled rice (No. 422). 

CHICKEN BROTH. No. 384. 



1 chicken. 
1 blade mace. 

1 dessertspoon chopped pars- 
ley (No. 432). 

Cut off the breast and meat from the wings ; these will 
do for another dish. 



1 quart water. 
1 oz. rice or barley. 
1 teaspoon salt. 
1 small onion. 



INVALID COOKERY. 



179 



Cut up the rest of the chicken into small joints ; put 
in a saucepan with the water cold, salt and bring to the 
boil ; draw off the fire and skim ; slice the onion thin and 
wash the rice ; put them in with the mace and simmer 
very gently for 2 hours ; take out all the bones and 
mace ; put the parsley in the tureen and pour the broth 
over, or the broth can all be passed through a hair sieve 
and a little milk added. If there is any chicken fat 
floating in the broth, remove it with kitchen paper. 

CHICKEN QUENELLES. No. 385. 

^ lb. chicken. 1 whole egg. 

J oz. butter, 1 yolk. 

J oz. flour. Salt and pepper. 
J gill milk. 

Use the breast and tender parts of chicken ; take off 
the skin and sinews and pass the meat through a mincing 
machine ; melt the butter ; cook the flour in it a little ; 
stir in the milk and boil to a creamy thick sauce ; allow 
it to cool and then pound it in the mortar with the eggs 
and chicken ; pass it all through a wire sieve with a 
w^ooden spoon ; form in a dessertspoon into quenelles, 
making them neat with a knife dipped in hot water; 
drop them carefully into a greased frying pan ; cover 
with simmering water and cook gently for 5 or 6 
minutes; drain and serve in a circle wnth a little plain 
sauce over. 

CHICKEN CREAM. No. 386. 



6 oz. tender raw chicken. I Salt to taste. 

1^ gills cream. | 

Shred the meat fine and pound it in a mortar ; pass it 



i8o HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

through a wire sieve and season with a httle salt ; whip 
the cream, not too stiff, and mix it hghtly with the 
chicken ; put into a buttered mould ; cover with a greased 
paper and steam very gently for about 20 to 30 minutes ; 
turn out and serve a little plain sauce with it or sippets 
of dry toast. 

CHICKEN MINCE. No. 387. 



6 oz. tender raw chicken. 
^ oz. butter. 
Small blade mace. 
Salt. 



I oz, flour. 

IJ gills milk or stock from the 
bones. 
1 yolk of egg. 



Scrape or shred the meat very fine, taking away the 
skin and any sinews; melt the butter; stir the chicken in 
it for a few minutes until it turns white ; add the flour ; 
take off the fire and stir in the stock by degrees ; add the 
salt and mace ; stir until it thickens, but do not boil ; 
cook very gently for nearly an hour, or until the meat is 
quite tender ; take off the fire ; stir in the egg yolk and a 
dust of very finely-chopped parsley ; take out the mace 
and serve with sippets of dry toast. 

CABINET PUDDINGS. No. 388. 



2 penny spongecakes. 

J oz. sugar. 

A little grated lemon. 



2 eggs, 
IJ gills milk. 
Jam sauce. 



Grease small dariole moulds ; cut the cakes into slices 
and fill the moulds lightly ; take away one white and 
whisk the eggs to a froth ; mix with the milk and add 
the sugar and lemon ; fill the little moulds ; cover them 
securely with greased paper and steam them gently 
about half an hour ; turn out and pour round a little jam 
sauce. 



INVALID COOKERY. i8i 

CORNFLOUR GRUEL. No. 389. 



^ pint milk. 
Sugar to taste. 
A pinch of salt. 



1 teaspoon cornflour. 
1 strip lemon. 



Mix the cornflour smooth with a Httle of the milk ; 
bring the remaining milk to the boil with the strip of 
lemon ; pour to the cornflour, stirring well ; return it to 
the pan and boil for 2 minutes ; take out the lemon ; add 
salt and sugar. 

EGG JELLIES. No. 390. 

1 egg. I 1 lemon. 

1 oz. loaf sugar. | ^ pint water. 

2 sheets gelatine. j 

Whisk the egg to a froth ; peel the lemon very thinly 
and squeeze the juice ; put all the ingredients together in 
an enamel pan and stir over a slow fire for 10 minutes, 
taking care the egg does not curdle ; strain and stir in a 
basin until nearly cold, when pour into small wetted 
moulds. When set dip them into hot water and turn 
out. A little whipped cream is nice served with these. 

EGG IN A NEST. No. 391. 



1 small round of buttered toast, i A little salt. 
1 fresh egg. ' 

Put the toast on a baking sheet ; separate the white 
and put the yolk carefully on the centre of the toast 
without breaking ; whisk the white stiffly with a good 
pinch of salt and pile it lightly all round the yolk ; put 
in a cool oven for 5 minutes just to set the egg ; serve at 
once. 



i82 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

FLORADOR PUDDING. No. 392. 



J pint milk. 


1 strip lemon rind. 


legg. 


J oz. medium florador. 


J oz. sugar. 





Boil the milk ; shake in the florador and stir until it is 
quite smooth and thick ; take off the fire ; stir in the sugar, 
lemon and yolk of the egg; whisk the white to a stiff 
froth and stir in lightly ; bake in a greased pie dish 10 
minutes ; dust with sugar and serve hot or cold. 

FILLETS OF SOLE. No. 393. 

1 small sole. 1 gill milk. 

1 sprig parsley. 1 gill water. 

^ oz. butter. Salt. 
J oz. flour. 

Take the skins off the sole and fillet it ; season the 
fillets slightly with salt and sprinkle over them a little 
lemon juice ; roll or fold them up, putting the side which 
was nearest the bone outside ; place on a buttered tin, cover 
with a greased paper and cook in a slow oven for 5 or 6 
minutes. In the meantime take off the head, break up 
the bones and put them to simmer gently with the milk, 
water and parsley for a few minutes, then strain the 
stock ; melt the butter, cook the flour in it without brown- 
ing, take off the fire and stir in the stock a little at a time ; 
boil up and pour over the fillets on a dish ; garnish with a 
little chopped parsley. 

FISH SOUFFLlfi. No. 394. 



1 whiting. I gill milk. 

J oz. butter. 1 whole egg. 

J oz. flour. 1 yolk. 
A little salt. 



INVALID COOKERY. 183 

Melt the butter ; stir in the flour ; add the milk aud 
boil to a thick sauce, stirring it well the whole time ; 
take the flesh from the whiting; pound it in a mortar, 
with the sauce and egg yolks until quite fine and well 
mixed ; pass it through a wire sieve ; whisk the white 
lightly and mix in ; pour the mixture into a greased tin, 
cover with a buttered paper and steam gently for 20 to 
30 minutes ; pour over a little light sauce made from the 
bones as in (No. 393). 

LEMONADE. No. 395. 

1 juicy leraon. I 1 pint water. 

3 lumps sugar. \ 

Peel half the lemon off very thin, then remove all the 
white bitter pith ; cut the lemon in thin slices and take 
out the pips wnth a spoon ; put the shoes, sugar and rind 
into a jug ; pour the water over them boiling ; cover the 
jug and stand by until cold, when strain through muslin. 
Orangeade is made in the same way. 



MUTTON BROTH. No. 396. 



1 lb. middle neck of mutton. 1 sprig parsley. 

Salt. I ^ oz. rice. 

14 pints water. | 

Take away all fat and marrow from the meat and cut 
it into small joints ; put them into a saucepan with the 
cold water and half a teaspoon of salt ; bring gently to 
the boil ; take off the fire and skim away every particle of 
scum ; add the rice and parsley, and even a little onion if 
allowed, and simmer very gently for 2 hours ; take out 



i84 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

the meat and remove all traces of fat. Serve with a little 
finely-chopped parsley (No. 432) in the cup. 

MUTTON TEA. No. 397. 

^ lb. lean mutton. [ Salt. 

^ pint water. ! 

Take away all fat and bone and shred the meat very 
tine, then proceed as for beef-tea (No. 376). 

NOURISHING GRUEL. No. 398. 



I pint milk. 

1 teaspoon arrowroot. 

legg. 



1 teaspoon sugar. 

1 tablespoon sherry or brandy. 



Stir the arrowroot to a smooth cream with a little of 
the cold milk ; boil the rest ; pom- it on ; return to the pan 
and boil for 2 minutes ; take off the fire ; whisk the egg 
to a froth and stir it to the gruel, with the sherry or 
brandy. 

NOURISHING FILLIP. No. 399. 



4 whole eggs. 

1 saccharin tabloid. 

^ pint brandy. 



2 lemons. 
1^ pints cold milk. 



Wash the eggs and place them in a basin in their 
shells, with the lemon juice strained over them ; cover 
and stand by 3 days, turning them each day ; when 
the shell is dissolved, beat the eggs and lemon well 
together and strain into a jug ; add to this the tabloid 
and spirit ; stir well and mix in the milk ; bottle and 
keep for use. Dose : — one wineglass twice a day. 



INVALID COOKERY. 185 

RAW BEEF-TEA. No. 400. 

4 oz. lean, juicy beef. I 4 tablespoons cold water. 

A pinch of salt. | 

Scrape the beef very tine ; put it in a basin with the 
salt and water ; cover over and let it soak about 2 hours, 
stirring it about once or twice ; then press out all the 
juice from the meat ; serve in a coloured glass, or it may 
be frozen and served in small lumps. 

STEAMED CUSTARD. No. 401. 



1 egg. I J pint milk. 

1 teaspoon sugar. I 1 thin strip lemon. 

Beat the egg light ; mix wuth the sugar and strain it 
into a buttered cup or basin ; put in the lemon ; cover 
with a greased paper ; place the cup in a saucepan with 
enough hot w^ater to come half-w ay up the outside ; 
steam very slowly until lightly set (about 20 minutes) ; 
turn out carefully. 

STEAMED SOLE. No. 402. 



1 small sole. j Lemon juice. 

Salt. I Parsley. 

Fillet the sole ; season each one with a very little salt 
and fold them into three, folding the side which was 
nearest the bone outside ; place them on a saucer ; sprinkle 
with a little lemon and salt ; cover over and stand the 
saucer on a basin in a pan half full of simmering water ; 
cook in this w^ay for 5 or 6 minutes ; dish ; pour the 
liquor over them ; garnish with parsley. 



i86 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

STEWED OYSTERS. No. 403. 



1 dozen oysters. 
1 blade mace. 
1^ gills milk. 
Salt. 



I oz. butter. 

^ oz. flour. 

The oyster liquor. 



Beard the oysters and remove the hard muscles ; put 
the beards, hquor and milk into a saucepan with the 
mace and a little salt ; simmer gently for 4 or 5 minutes ; 
strain this stock ; melt the butter ; cook the flour in it a 
minute or so without browning ; take off the fire and mix 
in the stock smoothly ; stir to the boil ; when just off 
the boil put in the oysters whole for about 4 minutes to 
warm them through. Serve with sippets of dry toast and 
garnish with parsley. 

STEWED RICE. No. 404. 



1 pint milk. I 1^ oz. Carolina rice. 

1 strip lemon. I Sugar to taste. 

Wash the rice well ; put it into an enamel saucepan 
and cover it with cold water ; put on the lid and boil 
carefully until the water has evaporated ; this will partly 
swell the grain and the rice will not be so apt to stick 
and burn to the pan ; add the milk and lemon and stew 
very gently, stirring frequently, until quite tender ; allow 
plenty of time, perhaps an hour and a half ; add more 
milk if required ; take out the lemon and sugar to taste ; 
set in a mould. 

STEWED APPLES. No. 405. 



6 even-sized apples. 
I gill sherry. 
1 strip lemon. 
Cochineal. 



2 oz. loaf sugar. 
^ pint water. 
4 cloves. 



INVALID COOKERY. 187 

Peel the apples thinly and with a corer take out the 
cores without breaking the apples ; put the water, sherry, 
sugar, lemon, cloves and some cochineal into an enamel 
saucepan and boil for about 10 or 15 minutes to a nice 
syrup ; put in the apples and strew the rinds over them ; 
cover with the lid and stew gently until the apples are 
tender, but do not allow them to break ; place them in a 
glass dish, and when the syrup is cold strain it over 
them. These may be served with a little whipped 
cream. 

SWEET OMELET. No. 406. 

2 eggs. I 2 oz. castor sugar. 

J oz. butter. 1 1 dessertspoon jam. 

Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs and 
cream the yolks in a basin with a wooden spoon until 
they are thick and nearly white ; whisk the whiles and 
mix them in very lightly ; clarify the butter (No. 416) in 
a small omelet pan ; pour in the mixture and place the 
pan in a moderate oven for from 5 to 7 minutes ; the 
eggs should take a pale colour, set, and rise up well ; 
turn out on to a sugared paper ; place the jam warmed 
on one side of the omelet ; fold the other over ; serve at 
once dusted with sugar. 

SPONGECAKE PUDDING. No. 407. 



2 penny spongecakes. ' | pint milk. 

2 eggs. I A little vanilla. 

Slice the cakes into thin pieces ; place them in a pie 
dish ; whisk the eggs light and mix them with the 
milk ; add vanilla ; pour over the cakes and bake 10 
to 15 minutes ; dust with sugar. 



i88 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

TOAST WATER. No. 408 . 

1 thick crust of bread. | 1 pint water. 

Toast the crust to a very dark colour without burning 
it ; put it in a jug whole and just cover it with boiling 
water ; cover the jug and stand by for 10 minutes, then 
pour on the cold water and soak for 2 hours ; strain. 



VEAL AND SAGO BROTH. No. 409. 



1 lb. lean knuckle of veal. ■ Salt. 

1 oz. small sago. 1 yolk of egg. 

1^ pints water. I 

Take away any fat and cut the meat up rather small ; 
put it into a stewpan with half a teaspoon salt and the 
water ; bring to the boil and skim ; wash and add the 
sago and simmer gently about 2 hours ; pound the meat 
and pass it with the broth through a wire sieve ; stir in 
the yolk of the egg and stir over a slow fire until hot 
enough to serve, but do not boil. Serve with toast. 



WINE WHEY. No. 410. 

I pint milk. I ^ oz. sugar. 

^ wineglass sherry. | 

Boil the milk ; add the sugar and sherry ; when it is 
well curdled strain the milk through muslin. Lemon 
whey would be made in the same way, using the juice 
of half a small lemon instead of the wine. It is a less 
heating drink than the wine whey. 



/A 


'VALID 


COOKERY. 


189 


WINE JELLY. 




No. 


411. 


1| pints water. 


1 gill lemon juice. 




1| gills sherry. 




4 oz. loaf sugar. 




4 gill brandy. 




3 cloves. 




• Rind of 2 lemons. 




h inch stick cinnamon. 




2 whites and shells of 


egg. 


1^ oz. gelatine. 





Whisk the whites of egg to a stiff froth ; wash the 
shells in a little salted water and crush them up ; peel 
the lemons very thin ; strain the juice ; put all the in- 
gredients except the brandy into a clean saucepan and 
whisk over the fire until boiling ; ease the lid on the pan 
and keep the jelly by the side of the fire to clear for 15 
minutes ; strain twice through a scalded linen cloth and 
add the brandy ; mould and set ; dip into hot water and 
turn out ; decorate with a little of the jelly chopped. 



igo 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 

PICKLE FOR MEAT. No. 412. 



2 lb. salt. I 1 oz. brown sugar. 

1| oz. saltpetre. | 2 gallons water. 

Boil all these together for 5 minutes, skimming well ; 
strain the pickle into an earthenware pan. Meat can be 
put in as soon as the mixture is quite cold, and should 
remain in it for 5 or 6 days. 

TO CLARIFY FAT. No. 413. 



4 lb. any kind of fat. | Water. 

Different kinds of fat cooked or uncooked, veal, mutton, 
pork or beef may be clarified down together. Cut the 
fat into small pieces of one size, cover them in a large 
stewpan with cold water and boil briskly with the lid off 
the pan until all the water has boiled away, then boil 
more slowly and stir occasionally until the pieces frizzle 
up and fall to the bottom of the pan, leaving the fat clear 
as oil ; cool a little and strain into a basin for use. When 
cold it should be a cake of firm, white fat, and is useful 
for cakes, pastry, frying, etc. 

TO CLARIFY DRIPPING. No. 414. 



Take the dripping off the gravy when it is cold ; scrape 
off it any brown sediment (which can be put into the 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. igi 

stock pot) ; also take any skimmings from stocks or soups 
and clarify them together ; cut up the dripping, cover it 
with cold water and boil it well for 15 minutes ; strain 
through muslin into a basin ; when cold and set take it off 
the w^ater, scrape the underneath side of the cake of fat, 
wipe it on a clean cloth and it is ready for use. Dripping 
clarified in this way w^ill keep a long time without turn- 
ing rancid. In very hot weather it should be heated 
once a w^eek to preserve it. 

TO CLARIFY FRYING FAT. No. 415. 

When frying fat becomes too dark a colour by being 
over-heated, or by being used frequently for a long time, 
it is a good plan to boil it up occasionally as in the pre- 
ceding recipe, putting a small piece of soda in as well. 

TO CLARIFY BUTTER. No. 416. 

It is more economical to clarify butter in large 
quantities than an ounce at a time. Put the butter into 
a saucepan ; dissolve it and then allow the water and 
butter milk to boil slowly away ; when the bubbling 
ceases, skim the butter, allow the sediment to settle at 
the bottom of the pan, then pour off the clear fat. 

TO MAKE GLAZE. No. 417. 



Take one quart of stock (No. 2) ; clear it from all fat ; 
strain it through muslin and colour it with a few drops 
of caramel ; boil the stock slowly down in a very clean 
saucepan, skimming away carefully all the skum as it 
rises ; when the stock takes a thick syrupy consistence it 
is done ; pour it into a pot and w^hen quite cold pour over 



192 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

it a thick layer of clarified dripping to keep it from 
becoming mouldy. To dissolve it for use, clear off the 
fat, put the glaze in a small basin and stand the basin 
in hot water ; do not stir the glaze or it will become 
cloudy. 

TO MAKE CARAMEL. No. 418. 



Wet a strong iron saucepan and put into it 6 oz. 
Demarara sugar; place over a slow fire and burn the 
sugar to a dark colour, stirring it ; allow to cool a little 
and stir in by degrees 1 gill of water ; keep by the side 
of the fire until the sugar is quite dissolved and the 
caramel cool enough ; bottle for use. 

TO MAKE BAKING POWDER. No. 419. 

4 oz. cornflour. i 1^ oz. bicarbonate of soda. 

2 oz. cream of tartar. I 

Put these twice through a wire sieve and then into an 
airtight tin box for use. Use half a teaspoon to half a 
pound of flour for pastry cakes, etc. 

TO MAKE BROWN BREADCRUMBS. No. 420. 



Cut crusts and scraps of stale bread into small pieces ; 
put them on a baking sheet in a cool oven until they are 
crisp and a golden colour; crush them fine with a flat 
iron and pass them through a fine wire sieve or strainer ; 
keep in a jar for use. 

TO MAKE WHITE BREADCRUMBS. No. 421. 



Take the crumb only of a stale loaf; pass it through 
a wire sieve on to a sheet of kitchen paper. If not for 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 193 

immediate use dry them in a cool oven, but do not 
discolour them. Keep in a jar for use. They may be used 
over and over again so long as they are sieved and 
dried before storing; if they are put away damp they 
will become mouldy in a day or so. 

TO BOIL RICE FOR CURRY. No. 422. 

Use Patna rice ; it is not so starchy as the CaroUna. 
Wash it well and soak for an hour or so before cooking, 
as this will make it a much better colour. Have a large 
pan of fast boiling water in which there is a teaspoon 
of salt ; throw in the rice ; boil for 5 or 7 minutes ; strain 
it and let cold water run through it to free the grains ; 
put it back into the pan, crush a clean cloth down on to 
it and place it by the side of the fire until the rice is dry, 
white and quite tender. 

TO BOIL MACARONI. No. 423. 

The long or Naples macaroni is the best for ordinary 
cooking purposes. Throw it into plenty of fast boiling 
salted water ; boil gently and stir at first a few times to 
prevent its sticking to the pan. It will take an hour to 
cook it quite tender; some varieties may take longer. 
Strain and wash it under the cold water tap to make it 
look clear. Cut up into the desired shapes or lengths. 

TO BLANCH ALMONDS. No. 424. 

Have a small saucepan of boiling water on the stove, 
into which put the almonds for half a minute ; strain 
them and throw them immediately into cold water ; skin 

13 



194 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

them and dry on a cloth. Pistachio kernels are blanched 
in the same way, only they require a minute in the 
boiling water. 

TO BLANCH BARLEY. No. 425. 



Put the barley into a saucepan ; cover it with cold 
water and give it one good boil up ; strain it and rinse 
with cold water. 

TO CLEAN CURRANTS. No. 426. 

Currants should be washed in tepid water to soften the 
hard skin ; the water should not be hot or it will take 
away some of the sweetness and colour ; they may 
require two or three waters if they are very gritty ; drain 
them and rub them dry on a clean cloth, which should be 
kept for the purpose, as the juice of the currants stains ; 
if they are to be stored, put them spread out on a tin in 
the sun or in a cool oven until perfectly dry. Do sultanas 
in the same way. 

TO CUT CANDIED PEEL. No. 427. 



Take away the hard sugar and cui the peel into strips 
half an inch wide, then with a sharp knife into thin 
shreds across. In this way it will not bake hard in cakes. 

LEMON CURD. ^ No. 428. 

2 oz. butter. i lb. castor sugar. 

2 whites of egg. ' 2 lemons. 

8 yolks. 

Melt the butter in an enamel pan ; whisk the eggs 
and sugar well and add them to it, with the rind of 
the lemons grated and the juice strained ; stand the pan 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 195 

in another one of boiling water ; keep the mixture well 
stirred and boil until of the consistency of honey ; cover 
down in a jar for use. 

TOMATO SAUCE FOR WINTER USE. No. 429. 



5 lb. quite ripe English 1 oz. salt. 

tomatoes. 1 quart best malt \anegar. 

1 oz. shalots. ■ 1 oz. white pepper. 

Stew all together, cutting the tomatoes in half, very 
gently until done to a soft mash, about 3 hours, and stir 
frequently ; pass through a hair sieve with a wooden 
spoon ; when quite cold add f oz. cayenne pepper ; fill 
some bottles and tie down with double preserving paper. 

TO MAKE SAUSAGES. No. 430. 



1 lb. lean fresh pork. 1 6 ground cloves. 

J lb. fat fresh pork. I 6 ground peppercorns. 

1 tablespoon chopped sage. 4 oz. breadcrumbs. 

\ oz. salt. 1 gill milk. 

^ grated nutmeg. ! 

Cut up the meat and pass it through the mincing 
machine twice ; boil the milk ; pom- it over the bread ; 
when it is well soaked squeeze it dry; mix w-ell with 
the pork and seasonings ; stuff into skins, which can be 
obtained from the butcher ready ; twist off into lengths 
about 4 inches long, or simply form the meat into 
sausages ; egg and crumb them and fry in hot fat. 

TO FRY PARSLEY. No. 431, 



Choose the parsley fresh and green ; pick it off into 
small sprigs after well washing it ; dry it thoroughly in 
a cloth ; put into the frying basket and plunge it into 



196 HOUSEHOLD COOKERY RECIPES. 

smoking fat, but not so hot as to turn it brown ; shake 
about for about half a minute or until crisp ; drain well 
on kitchen paper and serve it very hot. 

TO CHOP PARSLEY FINE. No. 432. 



Wash the parsley ; shake it dry and pick it off close to 
the stalks ; chop it partly on a board ; put it into a piece 
of muslin (which should be kept for the purpose) and 
wash it well in cold water ; squeeze it very dry ; put it 
out on a dry board again and chop it to a fine powder. 
Parsley prepared in this way requires scarcely any 
cooking and will not discolour the sauce or soup it is 
put into, and is pretty for garnishing. 

TO SKIN TOMATOES. No. 433. 



Drop the tomatoes into boiling water for half a minute ; 
dry them and skin immediately. 

TO MAKE TOFFEE. No. 434 

i lb. Demarara sugar. I 2 tablespoons milk. 

3 oz. butter. I 1 teacup golden syrup. 

Dissolve the butter in a pan ; add the sugar, milk and 
syrup ; boil slowly 30 minutes, stirring the whole time ; 
pour into a greased tin and before it sets too hard mark 
and cut into squares. Almonds may be sprinkled on the 
toffee while it is hot. 

TO MAKE TOAST . No. 435. 

Have a clear, brisk fire. The bread should be stale and 
cut not thicker than a quarter of an inch ; hold it some 
little distance from the fire on both sides until the steam 
has escaped ; then colour it a nice brown ; cut off the 
crusts and keep the toast standing up to keep it crisp. 



INDEX. 



SOUPS AND STOCKS. 



First Stock . 
Bone Stock . 
Second Stock 
Asparagus Soup . 
Ai'tichoke Soup . 
Bone Soup . 
Barley Soup 
Brown Vegetable Soup 
Cressy Soup 
Cabbage Soup 
Celery Soup 
Cucumber Soup . 
Cheese Soup 
French Vegetable Soup 
Game Soup . 
Giblet Soup . 
Hare Soup . 
Julienne Soup 
Julienne Soup (Thick) 
Kidney Soup 
Leek Soup . 
Lentil Soup 
Liver Soup . 
Mullagatawny Soup 
Marrow Soup 
Ox-Tail Soup 
Potato Soup 



No. of 
Recipe. 


Page. 


1 


1 


2 


2 


3 


2 


4 


3 


5 


3 


6 


4 


7 


4 


8 


5 


9 


5 


10 


6 


11 


6 


12 


7 


13 


7 


14 


8 


15 


8 


16 


9 


17 


9 


18 


10 


19 


11 


20 


11 


21 


12 


22 


12 


23 


13 


24 


13 


25 


14 


26 


14 


27 


15 



igS IXDEX. 



^«-^^ Page. 



Recipe. 



15 



Rice Soup ^8 

Shin of Beef Soup 29 16 

St. Germain Soup ^-^0 16 

Scotch Broth 31 17 

Spinach Soup 32 18 

Spring Soup 33 18 

Thick White Soup (I.) 34 19 

Thick White Soup (11.), with Forcemeat Balls . . 35 19 

Tomato Soup (I.) 36 20 

Tomato Soup (II.) 37 21 

White Fish Soup 38 21 

Fried Bread for Soups 39 



>o 



FISH. 

Boiled Codfish 40 23 

Baked Codfish 41 '^^ 

Baked Whiting 42 24 

Baked Mackerel 43 25 

Codfish Pie 44 25 

Casserole of Fish 45 26 

Dried Haddock 46 26 

Fresh Haddock au Gratin 47 26 

Fried Fillets of Plaice 48 27 

Fillets of Plaice, with White Sauce .... 49 28 

Fillets of Plaice, with Tomato Sauce . . . . 50 28 

Fillets of Turbot 51 28 

Fish in Batter 52 29 

Fish Pudding 53 29 

Fillets of Sole 54 30 

Fish Curry 55 30 

Haddock a la Maitre d' Hotel 56 31 

Rolled Herrings 57 31 

Scolloped Oysters 58 32 

Stewed Sole .59 32 

Shrimp Puffs 60 33 

Salmon, with Piccalilli 61 38 



INDEX. 199 

Recipe. ^*"*^- 

Stuffed Haddock 62 33 

Salt Cod 63 34 

Salmon Cutlets 64 34 

Taranto Oysters 65 35 

Turbot a la Creme 66 35 



MEAT DISHES. 

Braised Neck of Mutton ...... 67 36 

Beef Curry 66 37 

Beef Olives 69 37 

Boiled Mutton 70 38 

Beefsteak Pie 71 39 

Baked Veal Olives 72 39 

Braised Fillet of Beef 73 40 

Calf's Head Rolled 74 40 

Chicken, with Tomatoes ...... 75 41 

Compote of Pigeons 76 42 

Fillets of Hare 77 42 

Fillets of Beef, with Shrimps 78 43 

Haricot Steak 79 43 

Irish Stew 80 44 

Lamb Cutlets 81 44 

Mutton Hot Pot 82 45 

Mutton Cutlets 83 45 

Pork Cutlets 84 46 

Rib of Beef a la Mode 85 47 

Rolled Beef-Steak 86 47 

Ragout of Veal 87 48 

Rabbit Pie 88 48 

Roast Breast of Mutton 89 49 

Stewed Brisket of Beef 90 49 

Stewed Veal 91 50 

Stewed Ox-Tail 92 50 

Stewed Breast of Veal 93 51 

Stewed Calf's Liver 94 52 

Stewed Sweetbread (I.) 95 52 



IXDEX. 



Stewed Sweetbread (II.) 
Stewed Tripe 
Stewed Beef, with Macaroni 
Stewed Beef, witii Rice 
Sheep's Liver Baked 
Stewed Rabbit 
Salmi of Cold Game 
Vienna Steaks 
Veal Cutlets Stewed 
Veal Shape . 



No. of 
Recipe. 


Page 


96 


53 


97 


53 


98 


53 


99 


54 


100 


54 


101 


55 


102 


55 


103 


56 


104 


57 


105 


57 



SAUCES. 



Anchovy Sauce . 
Apple Sauce 
Bread Sauce 
Brown Sauce 
Brandy Sauce 
Butter Sauce 
Cornflour Sauce . 
Cream Sauce 
Custard Sauce 
Cherry Sauce 
Egg Sauce . 
Fish Sauce . 
Green Sauce 
Gherkin Sauce 
Ginger Sauce 
Mayonnaise Sauce 
Mustard Sauce 
Melted Butter Sauce 
Mint Sauce . 
Maitre d'Hotel Sauce 
Onion Sauce 
Piquante Sauce . 
Raspberry Sauce . 
Sweet Sauce 



106 
107 
108 
109 
110 
111 
112 
113 
114 
115 
116 
117 
118 
119 
120 
121 
122 
123 
124 
125 
126 
127 
128 
129 



INDEX. 20 1 

Shrimp Sauce 130 66 

Tomato Sauce 131 66 

White Sauce 132 67 

White Sauce (Plain) 133 67 



VEGETABLES. 

Artichokes 134 68 

Artichokes Stuffed 135 68 

Boiled Celery 136 69 

Boiled Asparagus 137 69 

Boiled Green Vegetables 138 69 

Cauliflower au Gratin 139 70 

Cauliflower, with Brown Sauce 140 70 

Colcaunon ......... 141 , 71 

Dressed Carrots (I.) 142 71 

Dressed Carrots (II.) 143 72 

Dressed Spinach 144 72 

Dressed Tomatoes . 145 72 

Dressed Turnips (I.) 146 73 

Dressed Turnips (II.) 147 73 

French Beans 148 73 

Green Peas 149 74 

Lentil Fritters 150 74 

Mashed Potatoes 151 74 

New Potatoes 152 75 

New Potatoes Maitre d'Hotel 153 75 

Onions Boiled 154 75 

Old Potatoes Boiled 155 76 

Parisian Potatoes 156 76 

Potato Ribbons 157 77 

Potato Soufflees 158 77 

Potato Croquettes 159 77 

Potato Border 160 78 

Sea Kale 161 78 

Salsify 162 79 

Stewed Spanish Onions 163 79 



202 - INDEX. 

No. of u ^ 

Recipe. ^''^^■ 

Stewed Lentils 164 79= 

Stuffed Tomatoes , . 165 80 

Stuffed Mushrooms 166 80 

Vegetable Pie 167 81 



SAVOURIES. 

(With Breakfast and Supper Dishes). 

Anchovy Eggs 168 82 

Bombay Toasts 169 82 

Beef Galantine 170 8:^ 

Beef Cake 171 83 

Cheese Savoury 172 84 

Cheese Fritters 173 84 

Chickens' Livers ........ 174 85 

Egg and Tomato Salad 175 85 

Fish Salad 176 86 

Fish and Macaroni Pie 177 86 

Fish Cakes 178 86 

Fish Omelet 179 87 

Forcemeat Balls, Egged and Crumbed . . . 180 88 

Hunters' Toasts 181 88 

Haddock and Eggs 182 88 

Haddock and Tomatoes 188 89 

Kegeree 184 89 

Kidneys, Egged and Crumbed 185 90 

Macaroni Rissoles 186 90 

Macaroni Croquettes 187 91 

Macaroni and Tomatoes 188 91 

Macaroni Cheese 189 92 

Oyster Savoury 190 92 

Potato Cheese 191 93 

Pork Pies 192 9S 

Poached Eggs 193 94 

Spitchcock 194 94 



INDEX. 



203 



Stewed Kidneys (I.) 

Stewed Kidneys (II.) . 

Sausages, Egged and Crumbed 

Shrimp Patties . 

Savoury Custard (for Soups, etc. 

Scotch Eggs, with Tomatoes 

Savoury Omelet . 

Savoury Eggs 

Scrambled Eggs . 

Savoury Eggs, Cold 

Savoury Pudding 

Savoury Macaroni (I.) 

Savoury Macaroni (II.) 

Tomato Omelet . 

Veal Galantine 

Winter Salad 



No. of 
Recipe. 


Page. 


195 


95 


196 


96 


197 


96 


198 


96 


199 


97 


200 


97 


201 


98 


202 


98 


203 


99 


204 


99 


205 


100 


206 


100 


207 


100 


208 


101 


209 


101 


210 


102 



COLD MEAT COOKERY 



Boudinettes . 
Cold Beef au Cratin 
Cold Meat Tartlets 
Chicken Cutlets . 
Chicken Fricassee 
Cold Meat Fritters 
Curry of Cold Meat 
Curried Croquettes 
Cold Meat Cake . 
Cold Meat Olives 
Croquettes . 
Cold ]\Ieat Omelet 
Durham Cutlets . 
Fricassee of Cold Roast 
Hashed Mutton . 
Liebig Patties 
Mince . 
Mince and Tomatoes 



Beef 



211 


108 


212 


103 


213 


104 


214 


104 


215 


105 


216 


105 


217 


106 


218 


106 


219 


107 


220 


107 


221 


108 


222 


108 


223 


109 


224 


109 


225 


IID 


226 


110 


227 


111 


228 


111 



204 



IXDEX. 



Mince Pudding . 
Mince Rolls . 
Roman Pudding . 
Surprise Potatoes 
Scollops of Rabbit 
Timbale of Cold Meat 
Veal Italian style 



No. of 
Recipe. 

229 

230 

231 

232 

233 

234 

235 



Page, 
112 
112 
113 
114 
114 
114 
115 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. 

Cornflour Pastry 236 116 

Choux Pastry 236 {a) 116 

Flaky Pastry 237 117 

Rough Puff Pastry 238 117 

Short Pastry- (I.) 239 118 

Short Pastry (II.) 240 118 

Suet Crust " 241 118 

Apricot, Sweet 242 119 

Apricot Eggs 243 119 

Almond Cream 244 120 

Almond Cheese Cakes 245 120 

Almond Pudding 246 121 

Apricot Mould 247 121 

Amber Jellies ........ 248 122 

Apple Fritters 249 122 

Bakewell Tart 250 123 

Banbury Cakes 251 123 

Brown Bread and Butter Pudding .... 252 124 

Blanc-mange ........ 253 124 

Boiled Custard 254 124 

Blakemore Pudding 255 125 

Cold Sago Pudding 256 125 

Compote of Oranges and Cocoanut .... 257 126 

Cocoanut Pudding 258 126 

Custard Cornets 259 127 

Coburg Pudding 260 127 

Chocolate Cream 261 128 



INDEX. 205 

Chocolate Sponge 262 128 

Cocoa Cream 263 129 

Cocoa Mould 264 129 

Coffee Shape 265 130 

Coffee Pudding 266 130 

Chocolate Eclairs 267 130 

Canary Pudding 268 131 

Cherry Pudding 269 131 

Chantilly Pudding 270 132 

Cambridge Pudding 271 133 

Eccles Cakes 272 133 

Fried Creams 273 134 

Fig and Apple Pudding 274 134 

Fruit Salad 276 134 

German Pudding 276 135 

Ginger Pudding 277 135 

Golden Pudding 278 136 

Ginger Sponge 279 136 

Jam Fritters 280 137 

Junket 281 137 

Lemon Cheese Cakes 282 137 

Lemon Pudding 283 138 

Lemon Jellies 284 138 

Lemon Sponge 285 139 

Meringues 286 139 

Orange Jelly 287 140 

Pancakes 288 140 

Prune Mould 289 141 

Pine Apple, Sweet 290 141 

Queen Pudding 291 141 

Rice Meringue 292 142 

Rhubarb Fool 293 142 

Raspberry Pudding 294 142 

Red Currant and Raspberry Pudding . . . 295 143 

Rice Cheese Cakes 296 143 

Savoy Pudding 297 143 

Stewed Figs 298 144 

Sultana Pudding 299 144 



2o6 



INDEX. 



Semolina Pudding 
Snowdon Pudding 
Steamed Batter . 
Tamworth Pudding 
Vermicelli Pudding 
Victoria Pudding 
Wafer Puddings . 
Welsh Cheese Cakes 



No. of 
Recipe. 

300 

301 

302 

303 

304 

305 

306 

307 



Page. 

144 
145 
145 
145 
146 
146 
147 
147 



BREAD, CAKES AND BISCUITS. 

Apple Cake .308 148 

Buttermilk Cake 309 149 

Bun Loaf 310 149 

Bread and Butter Cake 311 149 

Breakfast Rolls 312 150 

Brown Bread 313 150 

Buns 314 150 

Brandy Snaps 315 151 

Butter Icing 316 151 

Chocolate Cake 317 152 

Chocolate Sandwich Cake 318 152 

Cocoanut Fingers 319 152 

Cherry Cake 320 153 

Cuddeston Cake 321 153 

Coffee and Almond Fingers 322 154 

Cocoanut Macaroons 323 154 

Cream Cake 324 154 

Coburg Cakes 325 155 

Cornflour Cakes 326 155 

Cinnamon Cakes 327 156 

Chocolate Icing 328 156 

Dundee Cake 329 156 

Dough Nuts 380 157 

Endsleigh Biscuits 331 157 

Ginger Cake '332 158 

Ginger Rock Cakes 333 158 



INDEX. 207 



No. of 
Recipe. 



Page. 

Gingerbread Nuts . , ... . .334 158 

Gingerbread Cake 335 159 

Glace Icing 336 159 

Household Bread 337 159 

Marmalade Cake 338 160 

Madeira Cake 339 160 

Macaroons 340 161 

Milk Bread 341 161 

Milk Cakes 342 161 

Orange Cakes 343 162 

Oaten Biscuits 344 162 

Oaten Cakes 345 163 

Rusks 346 163 

Rice Cake 347 163 

Rice Cakes 348 164 

Rich Plum Cake 349 164 

Rock Cakes .350 165 

Sponge Cake 351 165 

Seed Cake 352 165 

Sultana Cake 353 166 

Swiss Roll 354 166 

Simnel Cake 355 167 

Sponge Parkin ........ 356 167 

Scotch Parkin . . 357 168 

Scones 358 168 

Stufied Cocoanut Cake 359 168 

Shortbread 360 169 

Snow Cake 361 169 

Tea Buns 362 170 

Victoria Cakes 363 170 

Vienna Fingers 364 170 

Vanilla Fingers 365 171 

Wafer Biscuits 366 171 

Wheatmeal Biscuits 367 172 

Wheatmeal Scones 368 172 

Water Biscuits 369 172 

Queen Cakes 370 173 

Yorkshire Tea Cakes 371 173 



2o8 INDEX. 



INVALID COOKERY. 



Recipe. P^^*^- 



Arrowroot Souffle 372 174 

Apple Snow 373 174 

Apple Jelly 374 176 

Apple Water 375 175 

Beef-Tea 376 175 

Beef-Tea Pudding 377 176 

Beef-Tea Jelly 378 176 

Barley Cream 379 176 

Barley Gruel 380 177 

Black Currant Tea 381 177 

Braised Sweetbread 382 177 

Braised Pigeon 383 178 

Chicken Broth 384 178 

Chicken Quenelles 385 179 

Chicken Cream , . 386 179 

Chicken Mince 387 180 

Cabinet Puddings 388 180 

Cornflour Gruel 389 181 

Egg Jellies 390 181 

Egg in a Nest 391 181 

Florador Pudding 392 182 

Fillets of Sole 393 182 

Fish Souffle 394 182 

Lemonade 395 183 

Mutton Broth 396 183 

Mutton Tea 397 184 

Nourishing Gruel 398 184 

Nourishing Fillip 399 184 

Raw Beef-Tea 400 185 

Steamed Custard 401 185 

Steamed Sole 402 485 

Stewed Oysters 403 186 

Stewed Rice 404 186 

Stewed Apples 405 186 

Sweet Omelet 406 187 

Spongecake Pudding 407 187 



INDEX. 209 

Recipe. ^^^^' 

Toast Water 408 188 

Veal and Sago Broth 409 188 

Wine Whey 410 188 

Wine Jelly 411 189 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 

Pickle for Meat 412 190 

To clarify Fat 413 190 

To clarify Dripping 414 190 

To clarify Frying Fat 415 191 

To clarify Butter 416 191 

To make Glaze 417 191 

To make Caramel 418 192 

To make Baking Powder 419 192 

To make Brown Breadcrumbs 420 192 

To make White Breadcrumbs 421 192 

To boil Rice for Curry 422 193 

To boil ^^Eacaroni 423 193 

To blanch Almonds 424 193 

To blanch Barley 425 194 

To clean Currants 426 194 

To cut Candied Peel 427 194 

Lemon Curd 428 194 

Tomato Sauce for winter use 429 195 

To make Sausages 430 195 

To fry Parsley 431 195 

To chop Parsley fine 432 196 

To skin Tomatoes 433 196 

To make Tof!ee 434 196 

To make Toast 435 196 



THE ABERDEEN UNIVERSITY PRESS LIMITED. 

14 



BOOKS ON 
COOKERY, DOMESTIC MANAGEMENT, etc. 



Modern Cookery. By Eliza Acton. With 150 \Yood- 

cuts. Fcp. 8vo, 4.S. 6fZ. 

Simple Hints on Choice of Food, with Tested and 

Economical Kecipes. For Schools, Homes, and Classes for 
Technical Instruction. By M, C. Angwin, Diplomate (First 
Class) of the National Union for the Technical Training of 
Women, etc. Cr. 8vo. l.s. 

Health in the Nursery. By Henry Ashby, M.D., 

F.R.C.P. With 25 Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, Ss. net. 

Maigre Cookery. By H. L. Sidney Leaij. 16mo, 2s. 
Cookery for the Diabetic. By W. H. and Mrs. Poole. 

With Preface by Dr. Pavy. Fcp. 8vo, 2s. 6(1. 

Manual of Health and Temperance. By T. Brodribb, 

^NI.A With Extracts from Gough's Temperance Orations. 
Compiled, Revised and Edited by the Rev, W. Ruthven Pym, 
M.A. Cr. 8vo, l.s. 6d. 

A Teacher's Manual of Elementary Laundry Work. 

By Fanny L. Calder and E. E. Mann. Fcp. 8vo, l.s. 

The Laws of Health. By W. H. Corfield, M.A., M.D. 

Fcp. 8vo, l.s. 6d. 

WORKS BY E. E. MANN, 

Head Teacher of Cookery in the Liverpool Training School 
of Cookery and Technical College of Domestic Science. 

Liverpool School of Cookery Recipe Book. Cr. 8vo, 

l.s. 6d. 

Manual of the Principles of Practical Cookery. Cr. 

8vo, Is, 



Books on Cookery, Domestic Management, 

etc. — Continued. 

WOEKS BY MES. C. M. BUCKTON. 

Health in the House ; Lectures on Elementary Physi- 
ology. With 41 Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, -Is. 

Comfort and Cleanliness : the Servant and Mistress ( 

Question. With 14 Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, 2s. 

WORKS BY MRS. DE SALIS. 
Cakes and Confections a la Mode. Fcp. 8vo, I5. 6fZ. 
Dogs : A Manual for Amateurs. Fcp. 8vo, Is. 6^. 
Dressed Game and Poultry a la Mode. Fcp. 8vo, Is. 6^. 
Dressed Vegetables a la Mode. Fcp. 8vo, Is. 6^. 
Drinks a la Mode. Fcp. 8vo, Is. Qd. 
Entrees a la Mode. Fcp. 8vo, Is. 6d. 
Floral Decorations. Fcp. 8vo, Is. M. 
Gardening a la Mode. Fcp. 8vo, Part I., Vegetables, 

1.S-. 6rf. Part II., Fruits. Is. M. 

National Viands a la Mode. Fcp. 8\o, Is. M. 

New-laid Eggs. Fcp. 8vo. Is. iU. 

Oysters a la Mode. Fcp. 8vo, Is. M. 

Puddings and Pastry a la Mode. Fcp. 8vo, Is. 6fZ. 

Savouries a la Mode. Fcp. 8vo, Is. Qd. 

Soups and Dressed Fish a la Mode. Fcp. 8vo, Is. 6^. 

Sweets and Supper Dishes a la Mode. Fcp. 8vo, Is. 6^^. 

Tempting Dishes for Small Incomes. Fcp. 8vo, Is. 6d 

Wrinkles and Notions for Every Household. Cr. 8vo, 

1.S-. 6f7. 
LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO., 

LONDON. NEW YORK, AND BOMBAY. 



iliiiiiii 

3 9999 05987 708 2 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket 



n p^ 



